PALMER CHRISTIAN TO
OPEN SERIES OF CON-
CERTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA

LU xX UBI ORTA

LIBERTAS

DR. BELK WILL BEGIN
FALL SERVICES SUN-
DAY

Vol. XXII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 24, 1934.

‘No. 5

DUKE-DAVIDSON WEEK-END

ENJOYED BY

Guests For The Game Are En-
tertained By Pan-Hellenic
Council Dances

GAME OFFERS THRILLS

Wildcats Highly Praised By
Duke Supporters

With thousands of visitors on the
campus for the annual Duke-Davidson
week-end and the set of dances, given
Friday and Saturday night, which were
sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic council,
the week-end proved to be one} of the
most successful which have been given
in the past few years.

Despite the 20-0 setback which the
Wildcats suffered from the Blue Deyjls,
the game was packed full of thrills and
those who were on the campus only for
the game were well satisfied with their
Saturday afternoon, Many favorable
comments were heard by the writer of
the spirit and fight of the Davidson
team. Several members of the Duke stu-
dent body said they were of the opinion
that Davidson put up a much better
fight than Georgia Tech against Wade's
men,

Scores of girls attended the dances and
game, coming anywhere from Randolph-
Macon in Lynchburg, Va., to Agnes Scott
in Atlanta, Ga. The dance set was well
attended and the music furnished by Hal
Thurston and his North Carolinians
proved to be most enjoyable. © Fra-
ternity banquets after the Saturday night
dance were given by several social fra-
ternities.

Those girls attending the :dance set
are listed as follows:

Beta Theta Phi: Alma Lloyd Ranson,
Charlotte; Emilie Crum, Orangeburg,
S. C.; Nancy Peterson, Woodbury, N.
J.; Betsy Cooper, Henderson; Lorena
Fairbanks, Fort Denning, Delaware;
Sarah Metz, Charlotte; Mary Louise
Means, Concord; Margaret Abbit, Wil-
son; and Bess Laing, Charleston, W.
Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Virginia Harding,
High Point; Virginia Wiler, Charlotte;

Alice Cline, Concord; Mary Mauldin,
Rock Hill, S. C.; Sue- Morgan, Albe-
marle; and Mary Crawley, Albemarle.

Alpha: Martha McGavok,
Franklin, Tenn.; Martha Crosland,
Bennettsville, S. C.; Jonnie Walker,

Charlotte; Katherine Crowell, Charlotte;

May D. Marion, Charlotte; Lydia Stew-

Kappa

art, Charlotte; and Clara Margaret
Grantham.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Betsy Arm-

field, Asheboro; Mack Coyles, Hickory;
Mary Glenn, Gastonia; Mary Fitzgerald,
Wilson; Katherine Alexius, Wilming-
ton; Ella Waters, Washington, D. C.;
Continued on Page 2, Col. 3

Several Portraits
Are Given College

Alumni Group Is Collecting
Paintings of Ex-Presidents
Of College

The Alumni Association of Davidson
College decided a year or two ago to
endeavor to secure portraits, of all past
presidents of the institution, and several
have been secured since that time.

Portraits of Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
who was president from 1901 to 1912,
and Professor John Rennie Blake, Chair-
man of the Faculty and acting president
from 1871 to 1877, were formally pre-
sented at the recent Commencement Ex-
ercises and are now on exhibition in
the college library.

The portrait of Dr. Smith, painted by
Lloyd Freeman of New York City, was
given to the college by Dr. Smith’s sis-
ter, Mrs. Lunsford Richardson, Sr., of
Greensboro, and her two sons, Messrs.
Smith Richardson and Lunsford Rich-
ardson, Jr.

Professor Blake’s portrait was pre-
sented by Mr. George R. Wilkinson,
12, of Florence, S. C., and his brother,
Mr. J. R. Wilkinson, '15. The father
of these Davidson alumni is superintend-
ent of the Elizabeth Blake Hospital in
China, a gift of Professor Blake.

It is understood that a portrait of
Dr. William J. Martin, president of the
college from 1912 to 1929, has been re-
ceived at Chambers Building, but the
donors wish the portrait to have time
to be’thoroughly dried before being ex-
hibited. It is also understood that a
portrait of James B. Duke, founder of
the . $40,000,000 Duke Endowment of
which Davidson College is a beneficiary,
has been ordered painted by the Board
of Trustees of the college. A Mr.

THOUSANDS

SNAPSHOTS WANTED

All seniors are urged to turn in
their informal characteristic snap-
shots to Bob Smith, Editor of the
yearbook, as soon as possible. Mem-
bers of the Photographers Club have
agreed to take these snapshots for
a nominal sum, and those seniors in-
terested in this offer are asked to
see Gordon Wood, 305 East, Gra-
ham Squires, 402 East, or A. P.
Hassell, 409 East, in order that the
snaps may be secured at once.

The photographer for ‘‘Quips and
Cranks’, who has been on the cam-
pus since Monday, will leave tonight,
and all students who plan to have
their pictures made and have not
done so must have them taken be-
fore nine o’clock this evening (Wed-
nesday). The regular charge of
four dollars will be made, a post-
dated check being table if the
student hasn’t the: cash available.

NEW EQUIPMENT
FOR ALUMNI FILE

Martin Installs Modern Machines
For Addressing Mail And
Keeping Files

An_entirely new system of keeping
on file those alumni of the college who
are on the mailing list has been inaugu-
rated in the office of the alumni secre-
tary, Grier Martin.
new machines, the Graphotype
and the Addressograph, have recently
been procured to make possible this
much more convenient and _ practical
method of filing. Under the new system
the addresses of the alumni -are filed
alphabetically according to the state and
town in which each alumnus lives. Each
individual file or card consists of a light
metal frame, into which is inserted a
metal name and address plateSfor future
printing and an index card which facili-
tates location of each alumnus’ address.

The Graphotype is used for making
the metal address plates, the machine
stamping each figure by means of dies.
The Addressograph is, in turn, used to
print the alumni addresses on envelopes,
cards, or other papers by means of the
metal address plates made on the Grapho-
type. These plates, filed in alphabetical
order, are fed into the Addressograph
in the same order, and the whole file can
be printed in an amazingly short time,
each plate being restored to its proper
place in the file after being used.

‘Two

By means of this system it is possible
to have all outgoing mail classified alpha-
betically as to state and city, thus en-
abling the alumni mail, including “David-
sonians”, college. circulars, ete., to be
sent second class and saving the
college quite a bit in mailing costs alone.

so

An entirely new file of alumni is be-
ing compiled by means of the new sys-
tem and should be completed before
the Christmas holidays. <A file of all
ministers in the Southern Presbyterian
Church will also be kept.

First Grades Of Year
To Be Released Friday

All grades for the first six weeks of
this year’s work will be available to the
students at the office of Mr. F. W.
Hengeveld, Registrar and Secretary of
the Faculty, on Friday and Saturday,
October 26 and 27.

These grades cover all daily work and
the recent reviews. Senior, Junior,
Sophomore, and Freshman grades will
be available at the same time.

Reports will not be sent to the in-
dividual students in college but a record
of all work will be forwarded to the
parent or guardian of each college stu-
dent. |

The object in drawing up reports of
students work for the first six weeks
is to inform the students and their par-
ents or guardian of their scholastic
standing. A six weeks report of work
is sent out at the beginning of each year.

Grades, which were drawn up Satur-
day by the college professors, were
turned in the same day so that Regis-
trar Hengeveld would have ample time
to record them before the above stated
time.

Wiltchek, of New, York City, is the
artist.

The portraits of Dr. Martin and Mr.
Duke will probably be presented form-
ally to the college sometime during the
present school year.

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE CENSORS

“The Davidsonian” assumes no responsibility for any sentiments em-
bodied in this article.

“Give me the liberty to utter freely

according to conscience, above all

other liberties.” —M11,t0N.

This is the unequivocable, declaratory statement of a delicate matter—
Student Body “rights”.
patched by its critics to the bone-yard of causes that have “died. aborn-
ing’. The epithet of “radical” will not alone suffice to vitiate its force
as an expression of opinion.

Does this company of college students have what can properly go by
the name of “rights”? In the opinion of this writer, who is expressing
here the sentiments of co-signers to this article, the answer is a positive
affirmative. As a corporate entity, this company of men have certain
rights which should be courageously affirmed.

Firstly, we have a right to be heard in that concert of voices which
promulgate the policies determining the social life on our campus. Some
experience as students at Davidson College has impressed us with the
abject failure of the College to provide for the development of Student

Body social needs.

Each week-end produces eloquent testimony to the reality of this dis-
tressing circumstance. Manifold centrifugal forces operate to send
members of the Student Body off to other places for the satisfaction of
their recreational and social impulses. After this regularly recurring
exodus has run its course, the campus is left deserted and apathetic.

This fact is all the more insufferable when We consider its antithesis

to the prevailing situation in the wholesome collegiate communities on

other campuses.

With scarcely an exception in the college world, it is true that with
the week-end there comes an increase rather than a diminution of the
college spirit and campus activity.

The consummation of a program
The construction of an

This is an unwholesome situation.
with dual objectives would effect its reform.
adequate “Social Center” on the campus with facilities for handling the
social and recreational needs of Davidson men is the first essential. This
ought to be the initial project into which any funds for new building
be invested.

Secondly, the reactionary prohibition of dancing on the campus ought
to be rescinded to allow for the intelligent use of these projected facil-
ities. é

The Student Council at a meeting last week entertained a report which
embodied a program tending toward these two objectives. That group
unanimously resolved that many. considerations made it both unwise
and impolitic for this reformatory campaign to be pressed in the name
of the Student Body Government. As a consequence, this article and
Nthe opinions expressed therein are purely the sentiments of individuals.
It is to the writer of this article and its co-signers to whom responsibili-
ty for these statements justly attaches.

Of course, when we squarely face the facts we see practical difficulties
of formidable proportions. But even the fact of financial difficulty in
the construction of this project is not so formidable an obstacle as the
prevailing prejudices which would unreasonably restrict its use.

What prompts the writing of this article is a conscientious conviction
that the time is ripe for an expressed objection to certain regulations im-
posed upon us from above.

There are certain agencies responsible for social campus policy to
is anathema. Needless to say, despite their aversion
the institution persists. From these agencies issues the prevailing pro-
hibition-of-campus dancing. ‘lo trace back the source of this prejudice
carries us beyond and above the college Faculty who are properly but

whom “dancing”

administrative agents.

No one has any proper right to ridicule the conscientious persuasions
of others. It is strictly not the purpose of this writer to treat the same
with levity. But it is purposed to precipitate into an open discussion
which for too long has been rankling under cover.

In the last analysis the most prodigious obstruction which stands be-
tween us and a wholesome, progressive social life on this campus are
Measured by the enlightened standards
As pioneers our

some reactionary prejudices.
of-contemporary society these attitudes are untenable.
work is one of educating recalcitrants to a more expedient adjustment
with a fact, the stark reality of which they cannot “neglect out of exist-
ence”.

There is in the prohititen of dancing on the campus a@ connivance
against which many of us secretly rebel. For whereas dancing is de jure
prohibited to Davidson men, it flourishes de facto! What possible pur-
pose can be served by this anachronistic sentiment it is difficult to imagine.
As things now stand, the intentions of the promulgators of the anti-
dancing regulation are thwarted, the efforts to suppress the institution
are a consummate failure, Davidson men travel miles to sponsor college
dances under unfavorable, inconvenient circumstances—and everybody
winks !

But even this anomalous condition is not our special grievance. Our
grievance is that the arm of control originating from these reactionary
sources has fastened upon The Davidsonian imposing such restrictions
there that make that publication hardly the “voice of the Student Body”.
This paper is the only medium for the expression of undergraduate
opinion.

To strengthen their recalcitrant position against campus dancing, the
same parties have sought to discourage even the publicizing of dances in
The Davidsonian. ‘That-an-unreasonable censorship of any. nature
should violate the integrity of this student organ of sentiment is intol-
erable. One fact we strenuously aver. The Davidsonian is our paper
to use at our discretion and within the limits of decorum. It must be
the voice of the Student Body.

Can it be questioned whether the Student Body has a voice, or that
the voice has a “right” to be heard? No one will deny that the Honor
Systein is one of Davidson’s priceless, irreplaceable assets. To all in-
tents and purposes, the moral energy which motivates the Honor Sys-

Continued on Page 2, Col. 5

What is more, it cannot be summarily des- |

DR. BLANTON
SPEAK AT

TO LEAD ‘Y’ SERVICES

Dr. J. Bhanton Berk

who will open the regular fall serv-
ices of the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Belk is
pastor of the Grace Covenant ee
byterian Church of Richmond, Va.

MASQUERS GIVE
UNE-AGT PLAYS

The Red Black with
three one-act plays, opened their present
season here last night.
were
tended by a large crowd. These plays
were the first in a series which will be
given by the Masquers,

The first play, “Wurzel Flummery”,
Was. a romantic comedy, directed by
David Herring. The play, which .takes
place on a June day morning before the
war in Robert Crashaw’s town house,
deals with the late Antony Clifton who
has left fifty thousand
men who will take
of Wurzel Flummery,
excellent performances.
as Mr. Robert Crashaw,
as Mr.
ing.

and Masquers,
The plays, which

presented in Chambers, were at-

pounds to two
with it the name
All the cast gave

John Newman
and Caton Denis
Richard Meriton were outstand-

WURZEL FLUMMERY +

The cast was as follows:
Mr. Robert Crashaw —-~-John
Mrs. Robert Crashaw ~--.----
Elizabeth Shewmake
Miss Viola Crashaw--Goudyloch Erwin
Mr. Dennis Clifton K. Malone
Mr. Richard Meriton ~-----Caton Denis
he wButlensesesseess O,. M. Covington

Directed by David Herring

“Grandma Pulls The String”, the sec-
ond play, took the audience by storm.
This comedy provides many a laugh. A.
C. Cline as Thornton, C. S. Howard as
Grandma, and J. Lafferty as Hildegard
gave a good account of themselves in
this comedy which dealt with the pro-
posal of Thornton to Julia, This proved

Newman

a hit to the fans. Richardson Hillier
was the director.
Continued on Page 6, Col. 6

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Pledges Six New Men

The Alpha Alpha chapter of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chem-
istry fraternity, . formally pledged six
new men at their regular mecting last
Monday night.

Dr. A. T. Clifford, who came here for
the first time this fall as professor of
chemistry, was also initiated as an hon-
orary member.

Last week the following received
mailed bids and later signified their in-
tention of accepting them at a_ brief
meeting held after chapel: M. J. Bar-
nett, of Meridian, Miss.; R. P. Morrow,
West Point, Ga.; E. D. Otey, Wythe-
ville, Va.; J. H. Ross, Michoacan, Mexi-
co; W. B. Wartman, South Hill, Va.;
and E. C. Womble, Wagram. They will
be initiated at an early date.

Alpha Alpha is the mother chapter of
Gamma Sigma Epsilon and was founded
here in 1919. Membership is based
largely on grades, interest in the subject
and the amount of chemistry taken.

Officers of the local group are: M. W.
Alderman, president; C. S, McCall, sec-
retary; E. S. Hodge, treasurer.

O. J. Thies, Jr., associate professor
of chemistry and faculty member of this
chapter, holds the rank of Grand Keeper
of the Cult in the national organization.

BELK WILL
“Y” SERVICES

| Richmond Pastor Is One Of The

Leading Ministers Of Pres-
byterian Church

TO SPEAK FOUR DAYS

Is_ Great Sportsman,
Pastor And Man

Services of

Leader,

The regular Fall the Y.
M. C. A. will begin on next Sunday
morning, October 28. The “Y”
siders itself very fortunate in securing
Dr. J. Blanton Belk, pastor of the Grace
Covenant Presbyterian church-of Rich-
mond, Va.,
Dr.
of

con-

as the speaker at these serv-
Belk is one of the leading min-

the “Southern
church and comes to Davidson highly
recommended Dr. “Tolly” Thomp-
Dr. Ben Lacy, and other outstand-
ing men of the church.

Dr. Belk was born in 1893,
ham, Vi irginia, the son of Rev.
George W. Belk, D.D. He attended
Davidson College for two and
finished at the University of South Caro-
he A.B. and

ices,
isters Presbyterian
by

son,

in Chat-
and Mrs.

years

lina, where received his
M.A. degrees.

At the declaration of war in 1917,
enlisted in the army, serving in the First
Division; a First Lieutenant of Light
Artillery, commanding a North Carolina
Battery for 14 months in France.

In 1921, Dr. Belk received B.D.
degree from Columbia Theological Sem-
inary, Ie marriéd Miss Wanamaker of
St. Matthews, S$. C., and they have four
children—three girls, Blanton,
Jr.

Tn
upon him the degree of
vinity. He has done special
work at Union New
and at Columbia Seminary.

Dr.
at Clover, S. (

he

his

one boy,

1927, conferred
Di-
graduate
York,

College
Doctor of

Rollins

Seminary.

Belk has held several pastorates—
, First Pres. Church of
Orlando, Fla., First Church of
Huntington, W. Va., and 1933
has been at the Grace Covenant church in
Richmond, Va.

Dr. Belk is
fond of all outdoor life.
an expert at hunting and fishing, and also
a great golfer. Ile has also always
taken an active and prominent part in
civic and community His pet
hobby at present seems to be his Young
People’s Forum, which draws
capacity crowds, anywhere from sixty or
seventy to one hundred young people.
His people love his preaching and his
crowded. He also
radio congregation

Pres,
since

a great sportsman, being
He is quite

activities,

always

church is usually
reaches a_ great
through a private station at his church.

Statement from Dr. Ben Lacy, Pres.
of Union Seminary, who conducted the
Fall Services last year:

‘DSO. I,
unusually
speaking gifts.

Continued on Eigse

Blanton Belk is a preacher of

attractive personality and
Ile has lived a ie
6, Col.

Meetings Planned
By Pi Delta Alpha

Pre-medical Group Discusses Fu-
ture Speakers At Initial Meet-
ing Of Year

The local chapter of Pi Delta Alpha,
national pre-medical fraternity, held the
first business meeting the latter part of
last week, ae

The major part of the discussion dealt
with the eligibility of. various upper-
classmen for membership. Eligibility is
based on scholastic average, interest in
the study of medicine, and amount of
pre-medical science taken.

The possibility of securing speakers for
future meetings was also discussed. Each
year this group endeavors to bring sev-
eral outstanding physicians to speak at
the open meetings, which are held at in-
tervals throughout the year.

The purpose of these open meetings
is to stimulate interest in medicine and
aid pre-medical students in their work.

The Davidson chapter is the mother
chapter of Pi Delta Alpha and was
founded in 1931 by Avery Patton, who is
now president of the national organiza-
tion.

Officers of the local group include:
J. A. C. Wadsworth, president; K. D.
Weeks, vice-president; and D. G. Mon-
roe, secretary.

Faculty members include: Dr. S. C.
Lyon, Dr, J. W. McConnell, and A. W.
Shaw.

Initiated members are: J. H. Batte, D.
G. Monroe, J. A. C. Wadsworth, and K.

D. Weeks.
|
