THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1935 3
2 ‘These Fieve oiven CINEMATIC COMMENTS
: FACULTY DIRECTORY By the Masques
(Continued from Page 1)
; , ‘ DAVIDSON THEATRE
included: Mary Eleanor Horn, Char-
Side of at tabhe tea : enn knits sanesday % Thursday 6-17
HEARS Hl WARD Professor Office Addtess Street Leeeation Phake eel " — ts Pee aes ef ame Wednesday and Thursday, Oct, 16-1
other person, no Istbie, e roo ane ’ ‘ wee ?
Arbuckle, H. B. 200 Concord Road Right Second House from Forks of Road ............ 47)|. i ; feaieeess ‘i ; ‘ O'SHAUNASSEY’S BO}
; : ; at the end discovers that this person is} |. ; :
, | Babcock, W. P. N. Main Street Right RSLTT CE a CY To rerere reece rtrrt rere weereeterereecerreveresnnt WA! ete This cinema is very human and enter-
Professor Speaks Before Physics} Bailey, J. C. 103 N. Main Street Right Seventh from Campus oo... cece 175 | death. : taining, with Wallace Beery and Jackie
Fraternity at Meeting Bailey, R. G. 216 Concord Road Right Third House ........ satinnniaee i 43 The Red Lamp directed by E. M.]"* ' Aa aaah sitialaG
Monday Night Beaty, E. A. 319 Lorimer Street Right Fourth House in Second Block .............. 190] Donigian had the scene laid in a living Coope bs isha ab asa = hild
Blythe, F. L. 303 N. Main Street Left Depot Street cassie osscsicscccss 214\ oom of the Decriig House, in a suburb Beery is an animal trainer and the chilc
Dr Dich aneward Aves ACinIE Brown, C. K. 221 Concord Road Left Below T. W. Lingle’s ........ CUZ ee New Your Tie cast was: Mathilda | displays fine acting in his emotional con-
“qs sn) Be) reer sare ” Burton, Sgt. N. Main Street Left Fifth House from Tank Menem i cr ieee yr pl “d by Mi; K. li : H 1: flicts between his mother and pal.
on the “Electronic Theory of Valency”| Cochran, F. M. S. Main Street Left First House North of Theatre .............. Gi} esses EMO DA Odes SUE Cr taken dl
at a meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, hono- | Cumming, W. P. 2-b Concord Road Right Across Fraternity Court ate ae. 40 | Harold Deering played by W. Hl. Mar Friday, Oct. 18
rary physics fraternity, Monday night, Currie, A. 316 N. Main Street Rak ert ai House North of Tank ... 129} quess; Alice Deering played by | Miss THUNDER IN THE NIGHT
October 7. In his talk he gave a histori- Douglas, J. L. Concord Road ight Sixth Hae: *eentesaserseesses 132 Mary ,Louise Moffett; Archie Clark ‘ i Bp
; Douglas, J. N. 136 Thompson Road Right First House 56) lavads iv ToS Riana Hite eh | \ new release, direct from Hollywood.
cal summary of atom models. Erwin, E. J. 336 Gbncerdinend Right Firat tiousa., 128 | Played by 1S Rice; Bill, Worth playec Nie cnet Guelides Edmund Lowe; Paul
Dr. Howard discussed the theory and] Fleagle, F. K. 303 Woodlawn Ave. Right Sixth House . Tig) by A. T. Port; and Annie O’Shane played Sac: ai a URAL OC OHNGE
showed how Chemical Compounds can} Foreman, K. J. 3-b N. Main Street ak tare mous Oba Gemetery, sircessecsteces 66}by Miss Miriam Goodrum MU SHE ; i
be classified f he standpoint of the] Fulcher, H. E. 127 Woodlawn Ave. eft ext to Last House 47W | In The Boor, dirggted by W. F. Pierce, Saturday, Oct. 19
Ass ma oa so ee Be ane Grey, W. R. N. Main Street Left First House from Shearer Hall OZ ithe eoeial as (ararANthiec estate ol ae é Soe oe oe
theory. ; i Kate that seh were aie Gwynn, P. Hay Jr. 2a LoHtaee’ Street Right Lait Hooke — 185 ee, ae : : ! : ate « A rg DRESSED@TO THRILL
types of chemical compounds: first, the} Harding, C. R N. Main Street Left Second House from Shearer Hall 68] 5 eRe S ast’ contained elena ; ae Bape Ye Pence oy ty |
Wie aes , This is a story of a little French
electrovalent compound which is formed] Hengeveld, F. W. 143 Concord Road Right Seventh House 146] Ivanovna Popov played “hy Mrs. Grier (air Pita Reale ho loses_her
by the transfer of electrons from one] Hobart, F. D. CoaaAT RELA Loft Fan ar é 19) Martin; Grigori Stepanovitch Smirnov io Tel on a ie a x find ae
F - eter c ORROAIA Hood, F. 235 Concor oa eft ourt ouse from Forks (121 plaved 1 Nee dnatin, and. Luka{ lever (Clive Brook), only to find’
a eS aul second, the covalent swat Det, 125 AeaiemyhSt tect Right With Mrs. H. T. Smith 17 oie vi au ison, an HUNG Toran ate wuliape: eerie the: toast con the
type where cach atom contributes an Jackson, F. L. 89 Concord Road Right Across Fraternity Court 55) bare ap continent
electron and both share the pair; and] Johnston, F. W. 101 N. Main Street Right Second House 6 The Intruder was directed by D. |
third, the coordinate covalent type which] Laird, G. F. 202 Thompson Street Right Last House 83] Ilerring and the scene was laid in a Monday, Oct. 21
is like the covalent type except that one | Lilly, H. T. 217 South Street Left With Dr. J. W. McConnell 123 Jdimly lighted room in an old country PERFECT GENTLEMAN
nian erties, va) _| Lingle, T. W. 217 Concord Street Left First House at Top of Hill to Ub i ecotiiheseenid tate heard Pe as :
atom suffices both electrons for the Linglt, W.L. 101 N. Main Street Right First House .. 94 te ie i. aeop ae Re ea Z \ pass-away-the-time picture with
shared pair. Lyon, S. C. 334 N. Main Street Right Second House North of Tank 107i teeta teat et suet Frank Morgan and Cicely Courneige. —
Dr. Howard wnt to Cornell four] McClure, A. B. N. Main Street Left Sixth House from Tank 1g {played by D. AL McQueen; The Unele
years, received his Ph.D. there, and} McConnell, J. W. South Street Left First House South of Theatre 123 | played by A-R. Torrey; Ursula played Tuesday, Oct. 22
rraduated in 1933. While there he had a] McEver, E. 202 N. Main Street Left Next to Last House 75 {hy Miss Lucie Currie; Genevieve played AK > TRAE DA BiG
at Sara eat Ms bts ue as a sey : McGill, M. W. 192 Concord Road Right Across from Fratermity Court 851), Miss Emily Goodrum: and ihe Cot GAINS A CISO 2k ee f : ji
ee wae Mate Fale eat ath ate oe McGavock, W. G. 337 S. Main Street Right Fourth House from Fork 117 ' a ‘eh NT ei D | ; Phis is a spicy and entertaining musical
the Sage fellowship and scholarship, Martin, G. 157 N. Main Street Left RivvceeionreeNertieer crank : vant played by Margaret Douglas comedy. Much better than the usual run
Heckscher research, Al Djebar, Sigma] Mebane, W. N. 125 Woodlawn Ave. Right Fourth House heme ed FJ, | ° . ; of thisagort
Xi, and was Marshal of the class of | Minault, S. S: 216 Lorimer Street pieat Third House 13J Alumni Begin Work ;
) RAR HHtRES ACTS AYinG Coan Moffett, H. M. Concord Road ight Second House | ° e —————___—_—
Ph.D. candidates. After leaving Cornell, Moffett, Ht. M. By. ERE Rise RRGROLEleuse TY) On Centennial Gift] -
he went to George Washington Univer- Pfohl, J. C. 321 Woodlawn Ave. Right Fifth House 137 (Continued from Page 1) Gian at
sity to teach for two years. While there] Porter, W. L. Q 226 Lorimer Street Right Second Street 147] scholarships to be given to outstanding ‘
Dr. Howard wrote a Chemistry Labora-] Rhett, J. T. N. Main Street Right Next to Lyon : 156 | leaders in communities where funds were
tory manual for use in Freshman Chem-]| Richards, C. M. 202 Concord Road Left Third House Below Fraternity Court 57 tiven by local alumni PARKER-
: Tt aHdeoutliehedceaveralenariniicrenron Schenck, L. B. 219 Woodlawn Ave. Right Last House 46)> A & i m ; ah
jee nal eeeaseen canis ni car ay (4 [Sel tert Caw, Gold Road Left Road Back of Dorm Row 127 mew (church to replace the inade- GARDNER CO.
different phases of chemistry. Sentelle, M. E. Wi S| MaineStreat Left Second House North of Theatre 102 | quate one which now stands is the second
Sigma Pi Sigma was founded on De-| Shewmake, E. F. | iid Lorimer Street Left First House 139 | cause listed. West Trade St.
cember 11, 1921, and was a local or-] Thies, O. J., Jr. 200 Woodlawn Ave. Right Third House a U Third is a field house to meet the de CHARLOTTE, N. C.
ganization for three years. Now it has ones J, W. 202 Gymnasium : iste Late: 02 mand for better athletic facilities whicl
; ‘. owles, G. R. 3-a Lorimer Road Right First House 162) 3 3 f
twenty-nine (chapters; fanging from’ the Watts, G. B. 216 Lorimer Street Right Third House 43 [has arisen from Davidson's program of And Hear All The Latest
University of Washington, at Seattle, to] Whittle, A. H. 142 Concord Road Left Third House 194| “athletics for all.” This would enable :
Lawrence University at Canton, N. Y.,] Williams, J. P. 204 N. Main Street Right Third House 170 all students to enjoy the facilities which Phonograph Records
and South, to Centenary College in| Wood, W. W. 234 Woodlawn Ave. Right Seventh House 151 jnow only. the varsity t@ams have '
Louisiana. Two of the most outstanding — re | A new infirmary is the fourth cause Hopedte tian ET
BiADEEA Ags 4 a esha eae The above directory is given in the above manner for the convenience of the students, as the houses Aue vy id Hee Wee a eee 2
pany test Lect taed te VR have no numbers. The direction is taken as going from the campus to the house. frame —buiding which has been consid
On the honorary list of Sigma VP ered inadequate to the needs of an insti
Sigma members such prominent men as aoe rset eR | ER I tution of the size and standing of Da g gl
\. H. Compton of Chicago, Dean 1. D. Large Crowd Sees a long time Four Out Of Five College

Gale of the University of Chicago, Dr.
Darrow of the Bell Telephone
Laboratory, K. TY Conipton, president of
M. 1. T. at Boston, and Drs. Haas, Swan,
lemon, and other outstanding physicists.

Eligibility for membership is limited to
those men who make excellent grades in
physics and show interest in that sub-
ject. The present members of Sigma Pi
Sigma are: among the faculty, Dr. J. L.
Douglas, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. H. E.

WS

Fulcher, Prof. W. N. Mebane, Prof.
W. \W. Wood; among the students,

G. P. Erwin, A. A. Kuhn, T, M. Mar-
chant, J). T. Morrow, and J. G. Willis.
The recent meeting of the
Committee set the following programs :
William Douglas, a report ‘on Current
Developments in the field of Physics; on
Octs, 28, Prof. McGavock, talk
points that appear difficult to students in
elementary mathematics; November 11,
Prof. Wood, Inertia, movements of in-
ertia, and some practical applications of
these; November 25, Tom Marchant,
artificial radio activity; John Anderson,
Heavy water. Dec. 9,° Prof. Mebane,

(Continued on page 6)

Program

a on

MEDICATED WITH
(INGREDIENTS OF
Vicks VaroRus

Modern’successor to
old-fashioned cough
syrups...more con-
venient... less ex-
pensive... lingers
longer in the throat.

but fails to make a first down.

’Cats Top Birds In
Fast Moving Game

(Continued from Page 1)
g

nice runs by Pittman before ball goes
to the Carolina team.

Four minutes to play before half. Laf-
ferty receives a lateral from Pittman and
gallops 23 yards. Two pisses, one to
Lafferty and one to Armfield place the
‘Cats on the Birds’ three yard line, On
third down Pittman, starting around
right end, passes to Armfield for tirst
Pittman fails to

score. Score

6-0.

convert.

Third Quarter

After an exchange of punts, with the
exception of ‘a 10 yard jaunt by Yar-
borough for the ‘Cats, the Birds acquire
the ball and on a fake kick the South
Carolinians get loose for a gain of about
25 yards.

Here the Birds’ drive failed but on an
exchange of punts, Clary, after momen-
tarily fumbling, zig-zagged with right
arm flying through the entire Davidson
team for a touchdown. “Six” Johnston
blocked the place kick, Lafferty and Pitt
man make repetitions of their previous
long jaunts before the quarter ends.

Fourth Quarter

Verble drives bullet-like through cen-
ter for 7 yds. Lafferty whips off several
yards on a pass to the Birds’ 17 yard
Call Mr. Hashagen—IEditor
Brown blushes. Pittman passes to Verble

line. for

Burns, Wildcat center, intercepts a
pass. Yarborough drives through right
tackle for 8 yds. Yarborough gets a

first down. Second and nine. Pittman re-
ceives ball and twists through Game-
cock's\ line for the ’Cats second score.
Pittman converts, Score 13-6,

Using a diversified attack, the Caro-
linians—through the efforts of Alexander
and Clary, advance to the 'Cats 30, but
here the attack ended as did also the
game.

‘vveeeveorsnecniensnnvevecsuaneanvocanueyvaservensacayearocvocasanpecrvernantoeneeveseneuuvetectctayneennvagavesnennnvervaerneze ysis sseensnyes soonest

STOP BY
THE NEW 5c AND 10c STORE

AND LOOK US OVER

Plans Years Work

Professor S. C. Lyon to Address
Club During Year

% oe NN

The Photography Club has begun its
third year at Davidson with G. B. Squires
as president and J. K. Abernethy as sec-
retary-treasurer, Few definite plans have
heen made as yet, but the year promises
to be an interesting and helpful one for
the members.

The clib has as its purpose the en-
couragement of better photography among
the students of the college. Several times
during the year, lectures are given by
those who are well advanced in the field
of photography.

Professor S.C. Lyon will give several
talks during the coming months; dealing
with such technical details as the use of
filters, enlarging, and composition of pic-
tures. Aside from these lectures, Dr. Lyon
to the from
whom the members can seek further in-
the subject. Pearson
Hassell will repeat his talk on oil tint-
ing, which he gave last year.

is invaluable club as one

formation about

The club plans several improvements
in the dark room in Shearer Hall, and
for this purpose fund

members.

an improvement
by the
These improvements will include a print-
ing box. an enlarging outfit, and other
necessary equipment

will be contributed

The club is an informal one, there be-
ing no qualifications for membership and
no dues. the group cover
various activities and organizations for

Members of

the annual. The club extends an invita-

Dr. W. L. Lingle Speaks
Twice in Johnson City

Dr. Walter Lingle spent the week
end in Johnson City, ‘Tennessee, where
he spoke in the First) Presbyterian
—~Chttsch- of-potstet Cab
spoke twice at this church on Sunday
upon. invitation of the pastor, Robert
King, D.D., an alumnus of Davidson,
His sermons were received both times

by large congregations

Dr. Lingle left Saturday afternoon tor

Johnson four

lohn

accompanied

Phese

City,

Freshmen from ther

wert

Lingle spoke and visited with the alumni
in that section of the country

The party returned to Davidson Mi
day morning just before dinner, after
leaving Johnston City at |
in the morning.

mn

=== om o

MODERN SHOE

REBUILDING

BUFF SHOE SHOP

Give Us a Trial

i
i
:
i

tion to all who are interested to join.

fo [eerste

rervsvaetepenrusesvevunewnsetens venient INU

With Wallace Beery

FRIDAY,

MONDAY,

TUESDAY,

Davidson Theatre

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCT. 16-17

O’SHAUNASSEY’S BOY

THUNDER IN THE NIGHT

With Edmund Lowe, Paul Cavanaugh and Una O’Connor
SATURDAY, OCT. 19

DRESSED TO THRILL

With Tutta Rolf and Clive Brook

PERFECT GENTLEMAN

With Frank Morgan and Cicely Courtneige

HANDS ACROSS THE TABLE
———————————EE——EEEE

and Jackie Cooper

OCT. 18

OCT. 21

OCT. 22

Wharton, who had his leg broken a the
first Freshman football game with Darl
ington, Harry Gasteiger, Hl. Ro Me
Clellan, and W. C. Miller. They visited |
there during the week-end while Dt

| vidson for
| Fifth is

| relieve the cramped condition which now

a new library, which would

Jexists due to the small size of the pres
fent building
| A center designed to
offer the students increased recreational

facilities and help keep the students on

modern - social

e+the-cainptis on week-ends is the sixth

major cause.

Men Come to

JOHNSON’S
BARBER SHOP

Ska

|
|

|
|

Shakespeare, but we ins

in a name..

smartest crusher hat you

“Stetson” stands for

$

Men's Shop

Street Floor

. For instance, the name:

chy be it from us to contradict
ist that there IS something

“Stetson

Air-Light Bantam” tells a complete story of the

ever sow...

unimpeachable style

authority; “Air-Light graphically describes the
weight (or should we say “lack of weight’) and
“Bantam” epitomizes the rakish ruggedness|

Its companion hat “The Playboy” is presented with
a narrower band Other Stetsons $6.50 and higher,

Men's Shop

Street Floor

