THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 30, 1935.

Mock Court Martial Creates
Excitement Among Students

Ravenel, Rogers, And Harris
Hold Spotlight In Military
Trial Proceedings

THREE CHARGES BROUGHT

Defendant Is Found G Of
Two Charges By rere

(Special to The Davidsonian)

Grimly fighting to clear himself of
heavy implications laid at his door by
Society, the confident nonchalant air of
Bruno Richard Charles Harris finally
succumbed before the biting sarcasm of
Prosecution Attorney “Wimp” Wilentz
Ravenel despite the resourceful defense
of Teal Reilly Rogers and the defendant
was found guilty of kidnapping Exhibit
A, U. S. Army Pistol, Serial number:
19382,

Dismissal from the service of the
United States was the sentence passed

upon Harris after being found guilty on,

two counts: Stealing the pistol and wil-
fully disobeying an order of a superior
officer. To a third charge of conduct
unworthy of a gentleman, Lt. Harris
convinced the court at a mock military
trial on January 9th, that he was a gen-
tleman,

Before a court of R. O.T.-C.-officers
and an audience composed of society
celebrities as well as the rabble, the ar-
ray of legal talent on both sides paraded
numerous firearm experts, philological
experts, shoe experts and a number of
brilliant witnesses. ;

Capt. Ravenel as Trial Judge Advo-
cate attempted to show that on the morn-
ing of December 5th, 1934, the accused
was on R. O. T. C. class and took a
pistol that had been left on Capt. Coch-
rane’s desk. ‘The accused, claimed the
prosecution, then became afraid and gave
the article to Lt. Hillier for its return to
Sgt. Burton.

The defense on this point maintained
that Harris through his R. O, T. C.
training had acquired an affection for
pistols and not having sufficient oppor-
tunity to shoot it, had “borrowed” it,
Then he gave it to Hillier, telling him
that it was “hot”*and to return it.

The question then revolved around two
points : One, could Harris have “borrow-
ed” the pistol and (2) did “hot” mean
“stolen.” Dhis humble reporter's opin-
ion is that Hauptmann Harris failed to
prove that “hot” did not mean “stolen”
although the defense bettered the prose-
cution on the ethics of borrowing.

Quote: Lt. Harris on Cross-examina-
tion:

Question: “Who loaned it to you?”

Answer: silence . . question repeated . .
“T borrowed it off the table.”

Question: “You took it off the table?”

(The defense’s objection was sus-
tained. )

Question: “Don’t you know that you
have to borrow from someone?”

Answer: “No, not your roommate.”

Question: “Is the U. S. Government
your roommate ?’’*

Answer: “He’s my Uncle Sam.”

(The Judge rapped for order amidst
the boos and hisses.)

Having lost that point by acclamation |’

the prosecution then definitely proved
that when Harris said the pistol was
“hot,” he meant “stolen.” Expert Ed
Linker testified that in the language of
the ‘underworld, “hot” meant “stolen.”
Harris later testified that the pistol was
near the radiator “and therefore “hot”
but his testimony was refuted by Lt.
Hillier who declared that it was pro-
duced from a trunk 15 feet away from
the radiator. et

The defense produced an expert wit-
ness in the person of Miss Mary Thomp-
son who took the stand smartly dressed
in a dark dress with“white trimmings,
wearing a modernistic hat with a dia-
mond brooch on the upturned front.
She carried a black handbag with white
bead trimming and made a startling im-
pression upon the jury.

After establishing her competency as
a witness, Reilly Rogers produced the
sick report-of December 6th, 1934:

Question: “Miss Thompson, will you
please read and identify this?”

Answer: “Charles Harris . . . Sore
toe. This is the sick list for December
62

The question of the second charge
then revolved around the point, was the
sore toe a sufficient excuse? ‘The de-
fense produced Dr. J. W. MacConnell
who testified that the R. O. T. C. shoe
might aggravate the sore toe. The pros-
ecution objected on’ the ground of the
witness’ unfamiliarity with the R. O. T.
C. shoe and poirited out that Harris
went to basketball practice. More testi-
mony only brought out, again in the
opinion of this still humble reporter, that
a tennis shoe was more comfortable than
a R. O. T. C. shoe.

Other effective witnesses were Bill
Brewer who sat by Harris on R. O. T.
C. class and heard him say “I’d like to
have one of those pistols,” and Lt. Hil-
lier whose testimony showed no inherent
love for his roommate. Capt. Cochrane
made an excellent witness as did Sgt.
Burton, who testified in an authoritative
manner. ;

(Continued on Page 6, Column 4)

Managing Editors’
Duties To Appear

Information Furnished To Aid
In Selecting Editors

Beginning with this issue of “The
Davidsonian,” the first one of the second
semester, a notice will be carried weekly
stating the duties of the managing editors
for that particular issue.

Paul Harlan was issue editor, or re-
sponsible in general, for this week’s
paper while Tom Marchant’ had charge
of the front page; Martin Barnett, the
third page; Lamont Brown, sports sec-
tion; Harvey Glass, the fifth page; Paul
Harlan, the sixth page; and John Walker,
assignment editor, All the managing edi-
tors with the exception of Lamont
Brown, who has charge of the sports
the whole year, alternate with each
issue.

This information is being made known
to the student body so that when election
time comes the students will beabte-toa
greater extent to determine the merits
of each man and vote accordingly. All
six of the above mentioned will be eligi-

ble for editorship when the Spring etec-

tions take place.

FASHION NOTES
By
COLLEGIATE DIGEST

POLO STYLE AGAIN

With the almost complete abandon-
ment of the acceptability of the Ches-
terfield for dress and general wear, the
six-button polo-coat style overcoat is
becoming more and more prevalent on
college campuses.
Done in Irish-home-
spuns and tweeds,
this model is follow-
ing the geriéral style
trend toward rougher
fabrics and looser
looking clothes.
While it cannot
serve in the dual
capacities of dress
and general year, as
did the Chesterfield,
it is much smarter and more appropriate
for all other purposes. As the home-
spuns and tweeds are usually smarter in
the top-coat weight fabrics, these fabrics
are usually lined with a tan polo type
cloth or with a plaid wool lining to give
them the warmth necessary for the colder
weather,
MORE PLAIDS

The plaids seem to have invaded
every article of the male dress, so it is
only natural that the mufilers-of-the+
season should come in all types of
checks and va-
rieties of plaids.
And, of course,
they're all wool.
It is predicted
that these muf-
flers will soon
become as im-
portant for win-
ter dress as did
the old solid-
colored —cash-
mere, which has been out of the fashion
picture for some years. However, the
colorings in these plaids are of the more
neutral type, rather than of ‘the over
colorful variety.

Students Of Long Ago
Were Ideal Collegians

(By Associated Collegiate Press)*

New York City.—Students of the
Eighties and Nineties were the “ideal”
college men, Dean Herbert Hawkes of
Columbia College, declared here recent-
ly. The college students of that day
were a picked group with a broader cul-
tural background than those of the pres-
ent, Dean Hawkes pointed out.

“It is safe to say that ten times as
large a percentage of our present popu-
lation enters college as did at that time,
with the inevitable lowering of the aver-
age of cultural background of purely in-
tellectual interests and knowledge sub-
jects that comprised the course of study
at that time.” !

The attitude of the college toward the
student at present was declared to be
trying to. reach the whole personality—
mind, body and spirit, while in the Nine-
ties, the whole aim of college was the
acquisition of knowledge which could be
gained through reading texts and listen-
ing to the professors lecture.

Modern education is infinitely more
suited to our present condition than the
former methods were, Dean Hawkes

Capt. F. M. Cochran, assistant profes-
sor of military science and tactics, was
the speaker at the fifth meeting of the
Charlotte group school for inactive duty
training of reserve officers. This was
held last Thursday at eight o'clock, in
the courtroom of the Federal building.
Capt. Cochran’s address concerned the
present status of the Philippines under
the recent act of Congress providing for
their independence in a certain number
of. years. 0

The January meeting of the American
Legion Auxiliary, North Mecklenburg
unit, was held at the ‘Civic League hall
with Mrs. Ed. Linker presiding. Dr.
J. M. McConnell, professor of history,
was the speaker of the afternoon. His
subject was “The Legislative Objectives
of the American Legion and Auxiliary.”
Mrs. Ed Linker, president of the unit,
then reported on the work accomplished
since last meeting. Mrs. Hamrick play-
ed two piano selections after which the
hostesses, Mrs. George Watts, Mrs. Ful-
cher, and Miss Margaret Adams served
+efreshments,——___——-

Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum and the Misses
Thompson entertained at a tea in honor
of a recent bride, Mrs. Wilbur Thomp-
son. Mr. and Mrs. Thompson will make
their home on Concord Street.

Mrs. W. J. Spotts, of Dublin, Vir-
ginia, is spending a few weeks with her
daughter, Mrs. Nelson Mebane.

Mrs. Mattie Burwell Murphy is spend-
ing the week with relatives in Greens-
boro.

The Tuesday Club met with Mrs.
Frank Gaffney, January 22. Thursday
evening the “Kill Kare Klub” met with
Miss Mary Black.

Prof. and Mrs. J. C. Pfohl and Mr.
Warren Babcock spent Wednesday and
Thursday at Chapel Hill.

Miss Mary Hamilton, who is teaching
at Mebane, visited her mother, Mrs.
Thomas Hamilton, this past week-end.

The Davidson High School completed
its mid-year examinations Saturday,
January 26. Several of the Davidson
College seniors will begin their periods
of practice teaching’ this coming term.

Dean Rusk Wins Three
Distinctions At Oxford

The “Statemédt for the Academic
year 1933-34,” just. published by the
trustees of the Rhodes Scholarships,
mentions three distinctions won by Dean
Rusk of Davidson. Of these his half
blue in lacrosse and his degree with
honors in Philosophy, Politics and Eco-
nomics have been mentioned in the
Davidsonian, but the third is not general-
ly known. The “statement” names Rusk
as the winner of the Cecil Peace Prize
for 1933, awarded in an essay contest.

The “Statement” also lists publications
of. Rhodes Scholars during the academic
year. Among these is Gibbon’s Antago-
nism to Christianity, by S. 'T. McCloy,
Williams and Norgate, London, 1933.
Mc€loy, a Davidson alumnus, was ap-
pointed to a Rhodes Scholarship from
Arkansas, entering Oxford in 1919. He
is now on the staff of Duke University.

Pat Crawford Chosen
Rochester Club Head

Clifford, “Pat”, Crawford, a graduate
of the Class of 1923, has recently re-
ceived the appointment as manager of the
Rochester Baseball Club.

The arrangements. are not complete
since Crawford is now suffering from an
infection following an operation in Kin-
ston, North Carolina, and has not been
able to sign the contract. Physicians
give him a good chance to recover in
time to go South with the team for
Spring training.

While at Davidson he was captain of
the baseball team, president of the Y. M.
C. A., All-State basketball and baseball
player and a charter member of the local
chapter of Phi Gamma Delta social) fra-
ternity. :

While at the hospital he has received
many communications and visits from
juvenile enthusiasts, Crawford having
always been interested in “sandlot” base-
ball. He was taken sick while lectur-
ing on the recent World Series, in which
he played-a part.

For the past two years or more he
has served as substitute first baseman
and utility man for the St. Louis Car-
dinals. His personal habits have always
been exemplary and to this attending phy-

said. sicians' give credit for his recovery.
SERVICE VARIETY
HOTEL DAVIDSON
QUALITY QUANTITY

Collegiate Tally Reveals

-Increase In Peace Movement

Vote Taken From Four Hundred
College Editors And Presi-
dents Divided

ORGANIZATIONS ACTIVE

Students Seeking Warless World,
Editor Believes

(By Associated Collegiate Press)
Madison, Wis.—Exact and definite
proof that college students are becom-
ing more active in peace movements was
gained here today when results of a
questionnaire sent to college newspaper
editors and presidents throughout the
country by Collegiate Digest and Asso-
ciated Collegiate Press were tabulated.

Approximately 400 college editors and
presidents answered a series of questions
on military training and peace move-
ments, and from their answers it was
discovered that 120 college presidents and
131 college editors have noticed a defi-
nite increase in sentiment in favor of
peace movements. Fifty presidents and
56 editors did not feel there was any
noticeable increase in this respect.

Conversely, only 15 presidents and 13
editors declared they noticed any increase
in sentiment for either compulsory or
optional R. O, T, C.

More closely divided were both the
editors and presidents on the question:
Do you personally favor the entire
abandonment of military training on your
campus? | Answering in the affirmative
were 27 presidents and 56 editors, while
35 presidents and 50 editors were op-
posed.

R. O. T. C. is compulsory in 24 of the
schools included in the poll, optional in
17, and not given in 150, according to the
editors, while gymnasium work is  re-
quired at 147 institutions, optional in 28,
and not required in 15,

Exactly 152 of the colleges represented
by their editors are not obligated to the
federal government to maintain a mili-
tary course, while the answers given by
the presidents bring the total to 168.

Most prominent among the student or-
ganizations which tend to develop inter-
est in peace movements are International
Relations clubs, some of them affiliated
with the Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace and others purely local.
Fifty groups having this name were men-
tioned. Other groups sponsoring peace
movements and discussions are the Lea-
gue for Industrial Democracy, the Nat-
ional Students League, Peace societies,
and the United Front Against War.
Also active in this respect are the Y. M.
C, A, and the Y. W. C. A.

The military training question should
be settled by a conference and vote of
student governors and faculty, the ma-
jority of the presidents feel. The edi-
tors are overwhelmingly in favor of sub-
mitting it to the entire student body.

From the comments given by both the
editors and the presidents, it is apparent
that there is a general wide-spread
awakening of interest on the part of col-
lege students towards discussions of the
peace question: Peace speakers are well
received, and according to several of the
answers received, students are reading
extensively on the subject.

“Locker room conversation frequently
smacks of internationalism,” one editor
points out, while another says, ‘Peace is
a popular bull-session subject, with much
intelligent discussion of it.” This same
editor continues, “Upon the peace subject
alone are the students beginning to get
away from their provincialism and nar-
rowness. They are interested in a war-
less world and will work against R. O.
Pray

Literary societies are giving more dis-
cussion to the question of peace, and
chapel talks dealing with it are becoming
more popular, the editors claim. Out-
side speakers visiting the colleges are
said to have been responsible for some
of the newly created interested on the
part of the students.

Through their editorial columns, many
of the papers have brought problems of
peace to their readers, with the majority
of the-papers taking an anti-war stand.

In contrast to those editors who have
noticed an increase in the sentiment for
peace, the following comment was made:
“There has been no increased sentiment
in favor of peace movements on our cam-
pus. In fact, the students are becoming
more opposed to pacifism as concerned
with a defensive war, because of the
manner in which pacifists carry out their
campaign._ We believe in peace, but are
not ine favor of standing idly by while
our country is open to invasion.”

(Continued on Page 6, Column 2)

Four Out of Five
College Men
Come
To

JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP

Good to the last drop!

YMCA Sends Out
Many Deputations

Men Sent To Charlotte, States-
ville, And Huntersville

The Davidson “Y” has been exceeding-
ly active in outside work during the last
three weeks. Numerous deputations have
been sent to neighboring towns to hold
“Y” meetings and to conduct religious
services,

On the second Sunday of Jan. Albert
McClure and Sid Marsh conducted an
afternoon service at the Charlotte “Y”.
Two were held: one for the
younger men and another for the older
men. A large number attended the serv-
The following Sunday, Jan. 20,
Ben Rose and Bill Kiesewetter conducted
this service. Last Sunday Ed Hodge and
Bob Coit conducted the Charlotte “Y”
service.

Don Brandon had charge of. the serv-
ice at the Front Street Church in States-
ville on the evening of Jan. 20.

During the month of February the lo-
cal “Y" plans to send a deputation to
Huntersville each Sunday evening to hold
a discussion of DR. SWEET’S Book on
Religious Education,

Prof. A. Currie
Leads Vespers

Stresses Need For Loyalty To
God In Normal Times

services

ice.

Professor Archibald Currie, of the
Davidson College Political Science De-
partment, was the speaker at the Y. M.
C. A. Vesper Service, Sunday, January
Lh

The service was opened with an organ
prelude by Professor Pfohl. After the
singing of the hymns, “Jesus Keep Me
Near the Cross” and “Sweet Hour of
Prayer,” Oliver Anderson led insprayer.

William) Livingston then introduced
Professor Currie, who read for his serip-
ture Isaiah 44:14-17, The whole thought
of his message was drawn around the
seventeenth verse: “And the residue
thereof he maketh a god, even his graven
image; he falleth down unto it, and
prayeth unto it, and sayeth, Deliver me;
for thou art my god.”

He ‘stressed the need of building up
and realizing the need of the residue so
that when the time comes we won't have
to bow down to gods we don’t know like
the man who filled his stomach and laid
himself down before the fire, having no
need for a god until he fell into diffi-
culties. ‘This man, Prof. Currie pointed
out, is very much like many modern men
and women of today who forget their
god or think nothing Of the need of a
god until they have to call upon him to
relieve them of their troubles, and then
have no residue from which to make their
god because they have not sought out the
true God and followed Tis teachings.

He emphasized the fact that we must
not put our God aside or forget about
Him, but we should follow His teachings
so that in a time of need we will not be
forced to build a false god of whom we
know nothing about, in the effort to be
saved from a disaster.

F reshiman Glnss Votes
For Yearbook Spqnsor

In the meeting of the Freshman class
held after chapel, last Monday, Bob Coit,
the advisor of the class presided. The
meeting was called to discuss the plans
of the class for a sponsor in the col-
lege annual this coming year. It was
decided that the class will have the spon-
sor if the required money can be raised
by assessing each member of the class.
The sponsor will probably be Miss Judith
Coit, the sister of Bob Coit.

RADIO PROGRAM
PRESENTED HERE

Program On January 28 Offers
Highlights Of Campus News
As Feature.

The regular* weekly program broad-
casted every Friday hight at 9:00 o'clock
from the auditorium of Chambers Build-
ing at Davidson College, was sent over
the air on January 18, 1935.

The program opened with the familiar
strains of “O Davidson,” with Skip
Brown announcing. First on the pro-
‘ram, “Impromptu,” by Chopin, was given
on the piano by Mrs. J. C. Pfohl, guest
soloist for the night. Following this
Frank Tucker sang two songs, “Little
Brown Birds Singing,” by Wood, and
“Perfect Day,” by Bond.

The third part of the program was a
very interesting talk on Robert E. Lee,
given by Dr. T. W. Lingle. The occas-
ion for the talk was Lee's birthday. The
program closed with Mrs. J. C. Pfohl
playing “Chorale,” by Bach.

The next radio program, given on
Jan. 25, 1935, opened with the playing of
“O_ Davidson,” with Grier Martin an-
nouncing. ‘The first musical offering of
the night was an organ solor by Kenneth
Scott, “Meditation” from Thais, by Mass-
enet. Continuing the musical portion of
the program, two flute solos were played
by Donald Pfohl, freshman at Davidson.
The first was “Arabesque,” by Catherine,
and the next was “The Idylle,” by God-

ard. Mrs. J. C. Pfohl was’ the accom-
panist. Following this, Capt: Norton G.

Pritchett, director of athletics and pro-
fessor of physical education at Davidson,
gave a short talk on “The Place of Ath-
letics in Education.”

The college broadcast has added a new
feature to its program this week. It plans
to bring you each week news from the
Davidson Campus. Many of our lis-
teners have a personal interest in David-
son, so for this reason it will inaugurate
this new portion on its regular weekly
broadcast. This past week's news was
follows: Davidson College students
ended on the twenty-sixth, their ten-day
Pexamination period, and Monday morn-
ing started on the second semester of the
1934-35. session.

Dr. Robert Ii. Roth, noted treaveler
and speaker, will deliver an illustrated
lecture on “Alaska” in the auditorium of
the Chambers Building, Monday night at
7:00 o'clock.

Joseph Brinkman, internationally
known pianist will give a recital at David-

as

son on Tuesday, Feb, 12th, as the sec-
ond feature of the concert series which
is being presented this year by the music
department at Davidson,

Davidson's varsity basketball team
leaves here Monday for a trip through
South Carolina and Georgia, playing
Wofford, Oglethorpe University, the At-
lanta “Y", and the Jewish Progressive
Club.

Following the high spots in the week's
news at Scott con-
cluded the half hour program with the
selection, “Liebestraum,” by Liszt on the
organ.

Dr. J. L. Douglas Unable

To Resume His Duties

Professor J. L. Douglas has been ab-
sent from the faculty for the past few
weeks and will be unable to conduct his

Davidson, Kenneth

classes for the remainder of the year,
due to a general run-down condition.
Professor Wood has been teaching his
mathematics four. and Professor
Mebane his Mathematics three and two.
Both Professor McGavock and Mebane
have been teaching his mathematics one
class. One of his mathematics two classes
has been“disbanded and divided up into
Professor Mebane and McGavock’s class.

class

The As You Like It Club held its an-
nual business meeting Friday, January
25, at the home of Mrs. F. L. Jackson.

=

YOU'LL BE
HAPPY

Shorts... Shirts
Union Suits

IN
HANES!

P. H. HANES KNITTING COMPANY
WINSTON-SALEM

