THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

ciated Sollesia
ee Golleginte Press

i935
wasconsae

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1870.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all fl
tions intended for publication must be signed. -

LAMONT BROWN ....... OG
J. A.C. WADSWORTH ....

. Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
PIMeMORTON: wosuoueucaauseevcccsucebass Managing Editor
Howett Overton -Managing Editor
EVAROLDe SUGG) secon totecudacouwacocanee Managing Editor

WAV MOND LURNER: ScocGcuscasesacuceause Managing Editor
VOHNOWINN  Gesceuccce occu S uci EG -Managing Editor
HARRY -KUYRKENDALL—soscc_- eect alo Sports Editor
MARTINGBARNEI cee csceo cack seu cele aas Associate Editor
HARVEY. GEASS: cevocccascaces --Associate Editor

AUTEM ARAN GeLaLscesucouds
Tom MarcHanr
JoHN WALKER

BUSINESS STAFF

Ute Bis GOSERNs 2st ooee ee see e a gey Asst, Business Mgr.
WAti GASSES o2 25 Soc lulls ---Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom—Ross

--Asst. Business Mor.
---Asst. Business Mgr.
Dee ep ee epee NS Asst. Business Mgr.

J. S. McMutten
R. P. Morrow

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 1935

No race can prosper ’til it learns that.there is as much
dignity in tilling the field as in writing a poem.—
Booker T. Wasutnaton.

We extend sincerest sympathy to Professor
Archibald Currie, who was recently bereft of
his brother. :

he ag WORK
A S BENEFITS
Wane the U. S.

Congress is wrangling over the advisability of con-
tinuing the presently operating Federal relief Pro-
gram, it should be of interest to get a glimpse of the
benefit Davidson is deriving from the collegiate
branch of FERA.

For nearly eight months a faculty committee,
composed of Professor F. K. Fleagle, Chairman,
Dr. G, R. Vowles, and Professor H. E. Fulcher,
has been finding jobs and assigning work to an
average of one hundred students each month. Among
these workers a sum of $1095 is distributed monthly ;

no one man receiving, more than $20.

It can be readily seen that by the end of the
present school year an amount approaching~ the
$10,000 mark will have been expended to Davidson
students. To those students who have needed some
sort of financial aid in order that they would be

able to remain in college.

To many this may have appeared as purely a
dole proposition, but an investigation reveals that
numerous profitable accomplishments have accrued
on the Davidson campus as a result of the efforts
of these FERA students. No jobs have been manu-
factured by the committee in order to give employ-
ment to some man. On the contrary, there has al-

ways been a larger number of positions than the al-
lotted sum would permit engaging employers to fill.

With FERA funds helpful coaching classes have
been established for students who need special as-
sistance in their studies. Several assistantships in
laboratory instruction, and in helping to grade papers
for professors have been made possible, along with
added strength that has been given to the college
library work. :

Last fall the Athletic Association was saved the
expense of paying for ushers and guards at football
games by having relief funds to finance these neces-
sities. Help has also been provided from time to
time in the dining room, for certain special college
functions, along with the expending of various
amounts to pay assistants to the school physician

“during the flu epidemic last winter.

~

A’ portion of the money has financed the keeping
of an emergency electrician on the campus at all
times to correct any trouble that might arise with
the lighting system.

Also, two men are employed to keep hot water
for students in the dormitories after the janitors
have stopped work in the afternoons, and the janitor
force has been supplemented, so the regular jani-
tors might devote all of their time to caring for the
recently remodeled dormitories.

FERA men have handled a large amount of the
clerical work in the offices of the Registrar, and
Alumni Secretary. They have done a great deal of
outside work; making appreciable improvements on
the athletic fields, particularly the, golf course where
Captain Cochran, of the ROTC department, has
ably supervised tremendous betterments in laria-
scaping and reforestation.

At the present a group of these workers are, at
the request of the county health officer, making a
health survey of the town of Davidson.

From the enumerated occupations of the FERA
employees it can be easily concluded that the David-
son unit of this nationwide movement is certainly
proving beneficial to both college and student. The
men are earning their wages by helpful work, and
the earned wages enable them to pay college ex-
penses.

Although the money is the students to do with it
what he pleases it is generally believed that fewer
boys have been compelled to withdraw from school
this year because of financial difficulties than any
year since prosperity vanished.

The work of Professor Fleagle and the members
of his committee looms brightly on the Davidson
campus as a most profitable undertaking, and one
that should be continued until it will no longer be

needed.

BETTER LIGHTING IS
NEEDED AT LECTURES M
ANY who

have attended the lectures given at Davidson, par-
ticularly those who had the pleasure of hearing
Dr. Bagby last Monday night, have noticed the in-
adequacy of the lighting of the stage for the oc-

casion.

It seems that there is always too much light be-
hind the speaker and not enough just in front. This
was particularly noticeable when Dr. Bagby stepped
before the blackboard. The features of the speaker
were much more clearly discernible than when he
was before the stand.

Two soft orange spotlights placed at the sides of
the auditorium at a distance of about 40 feet from
each corner would help greatly. If it is impossible
at the present to arrange this, the committee would
find it at least an improvement to reduce the light
behind the speaker.

Many others feel that they would enjoy the lec-
tures more if the audience lights were out. It would
be better for the eyes»:and would concentrate the
attention upon the speaker. The speaker “would
possibly be at a disadvantage in not being able to
see the audience as clearly but at the same time the
empty seats would not be quite so disconcerting
and the audience would give him much more ef-

fective attention.

One more suggestion we offer before this plea
closes. Nearly, every lecture at Davidson is sched-
uled for Monday night. , “The Davidsonian” is also
put together on Monday night and must be com-
pleted by eleven o’clock. Thus from twenty-five
to fifty students, depending upon how many stud-
ents work on the paper each year, have been unable
to attend any of the lectures.

Could we not divide the dates up and give these
struggling young journalists a chance to attend a
few?

—H. S.

C'OMPASSING

By Scorry McLrop

Baseball is the primary afternoon: at-
traction here since the rain has ceased
for the time being. Interfraternity com-
petition in the diamond sport begins soon
and all the boys are rushing to get in
shape. It will be a pleasant surprise if
all the games aren’t rained out.

Spring Services, just concluded
under the leadership of Rev. Red-
head, were very successful this
year and it is hoped that the Tam-
pa minister will return to our
campus again soon.

Some of the prize attractions at the
Bowery Ball Saturday night were: Ged-
die Munroe as an obese woman, Eugene
Engineer Heggie strutting about, Miriam
Steel in a real Bowery costume, Perci-
val (Smiling Sweetly) Mauze as a tiny
tot, bad, bold Pirate Crosby (really Miss
South Carolina to you), the sedate Par-
son Mathis in an unnatural imitation,
Betsy Johnston (of the Wytheville John-
stons) in a five-year old costume was too,
too attractive, and Evelyn Misenheimer
in some queer rig. And Mary Harris,
one of the prize winners, thought it was
rushing season so she wore a Russian
costume. A gentleman from Rocky
Mount created a near-sensation as King
Kong while Alice Boatwright did cause
a sensation as the demure little lady she
is. Wilbur Edward, prize-winner, made
a handsome preacher, tall and dark and
hard to resist. Sonny Moore spent half
the night looking down people's throats
to make sure their adenoids weren't
swollen or their tonsils ragged. Other
notables present were Betty Hunter,
blonde horseback-rider from Charlotte,
and a very good friend of Phil Cook’s;
Jane Ellen Taylor, who is becoming a
constant frequenter of Davidson affairs;
Lila Tucker, whom we all know and
love; Dosty Blackmon, pal of Joe Hun-
ter, Herb Willis, and Bud Okey; Kath-
erine Crowell, who seldom is found
missing, and numerous others,

Some of the boys, we are told,
didn’t get enough dancing Friday
and Saturday so they took on
another hop Sunday night at the
Armory. Duke Ellington and his
sepia-hued music-makers were
very much there. Some of the
boys there might be among this
crew: Bob Johnston, Dick Hay-
worth, John Douglas, Hippo Heg-
gie, and Bill Harris. Wild stories
of colored ladies being carried out
the front door feet first were told
by some of these attendants. It
seems there was one fight too
many.

The Beta convention in Charlotte over
the week-end contributed to the Bowery
festivities a great deal. There’s nothing
like a good convention in town now and
then.

Gus Maynard has asked us to
announce that he would greatly
appreciate it if no one will speak
to him for the next week. He is
down with a lost voice due to an
attack of severe laryngitis. He is
tired of talking.

In a baseball game Monday, Tom Buff
tried to steal a base but he didn’t get
away with it—there were some student
council members in the bleachers. He
slid to what he thought was second base
but he didn’t know from third base
whether it was or not.

A certain gentleman in Char-
lotte lost his Packard car keys
Saturday night, one of our key-
hole-peepers informs us today.
Tuttut.

COLLEGIATE CLIPPINGS
Two thousand wads of chewing gum

were recently removed from under edges
of library tables at the University of
Florida reports the “Technique,” cam-
pus paper—A check-up at V. P. I.
revealed the fact that FERA students
averaged better grades during the first
quarter of school than their classmates
despite the necessity of working part-
time.—Chi Omega’s at the University of
Georgia held a real house warming éarly
one morning last week when their house
caught fire—Students at Denison Uni-
versity voted to ban “Hell Week” after
67 years of faithful service—A ban on
dogs attending classes was recently put
into effect at Amherst College—A “leap
week” dance was held recently by co-eds
at the University of California, the girls
making all dates, doing the breaking—
and paying for movies, food, taxis, and
corsages.

OUR

ontemporartes
By Eni Bowers

COLLEGIANS PROTEST AGAINST
WAR—

Students at the University of North
Carolina, University of South Carolina,
Furman, and the University of Virginia
staged a mass meeting on last Friday,
April 12th, as a protest against war.
Most demonstrations were held about
noon as part of a nationwide college
strike against war.

With the approval of President Frank
Graham, students at Chapel Hill assem-
bled in Memorial hall and were addressed
by Rev. Donald Stewart, a Presbyterian
minister. At U. S. C. 300 students
pledged themselves “not to support the
government in future wars except to
repel invasion.” . At Furman students
made peace from the library steps to
200 approving students, accompanied by
shouts of “War—we want war!” by cam-
pus fun makers.

The movement affected 100,000 stu-
dents this year, estimates say. This
year marks it first appearance in the
south,

BEER PROMISES FAIL—

Unexpected last minute opposition
threatened “Progressives” at Washing-
ton and Lee last week reports The’ Ring-
Tum Phi, campus weekly. The unchal-
lenged “Progressives” received a jolt
whe “Hoss” Richardson, suddenly an-
nounced his candidacy as “member-at-
large.” Campaigning went on in a big
way. Unprecedented crowds were attract-
ed to election speeches. Students smiled
at Ginger Rogers’ endorsement of the
candidate, and at his promises which
included: ‘Wrestling matches with
Sweetbriar, no more rain and beer in the
Co-op. (student’s store). Photographs of
the candidate profusely decorated with
chin whiskers and horses made their ap-
pearance on the campus, while signs,
fashioned after those of a well-known
shaving cream, proclaimed his virtues
and seriousness. As the Progressives
grew worried “dormitories became the
scene of many a back-slap and impromptu
speech.” Despite the attractive promises
of the Member-At-Large the Progres-
sives won out.

BREAKFAST ABED

At Duke an innovation sure to meet
with approval at Davidson was begun
last week. Room service for breakfast
was offered from 8:30 to 11:30 on Sun-
day morning to all co-eds, The luxury
of “breakfast in bed” heightened by the
fact that Isham Jones, playing at a dance
the night before had attracted many until
the wee small hours,

INVENTORS SUPPLANT
ASSISTANTS

Visions of starvation confront all pro.
fessors’ assistants these days since they,
have read about the new invention at
Ohio State University. Some ingenious
soul has put “together a machine for
grading exams and tests. The student
takes a hole-puncher to class instead of
the customary ink and paper, and
punches out his answers in the question
card. Cards are then sent through the
machine which prints grades and scores
the number missed.

Hearst’s Ideas Are

Opposed By Editors

By Associated Collegiate Press

Madison, Wis. — William Randolph
Hearst's current campaign advocating
purging universities and colleges of al-
leged “communists” is meeting » with
forceful opposition in the editorial pages
of undergraduate newspapers, a scanning
of student editors’ opinions by the staff
of the Associated Collegiate Press and
Collegiate Digest reveals.

Leading the group of student papers
which have been antagonized by the “red
scare” developed by the Hearst news-
papers is the Columbia Daily Spectator,
Columbia University (New York City)
publication. In a recent editorial, the
Declaration of Independence, Alexander
Hamilton, John Adams, James Madison,
Thomas Jefferson, Daniel Webster,
Abraham Lincoln, and U. S. Grant are
quoted concerning their beliefs on the
nature of American ‘institutions.

The quotations are followed by figures
concerning unemployed ‘and income of
American citizens, from which the Spec-
tator concludes that “they seem to ex-
plain away equality of opportunity, free-
dom of contract, and all the blessings
of liberty, life and the pursuit of happi-
ness and a few other things.” ‘The edi-
torial suggests that Mr. Hearst discover
just who owns the government and ends
up by saying, “Your .American institu-
tions seem to. be up a tree, Mr. Hearst.
We think we'll take the Founding Fath-
ers’ word for it, Bill.”

In an editorial “Hearsteria,” the Cam-
pus, student paper of the College of the
City of New York points to the investi-
gation now being conducted in Wiscon-
sin to determine if radical minded stu-
dents and instructors populate the cam-
puses of the University of Wisconsin, as
the result of Hearst agitation.

Commenting on the situation, the Cam-
pus says, “Undoubtedly, the Hearst press
is right. ‘Without doubt, Wisconsin is
undermined with Communists. Certainly
we have no doubt that there are at least
three billion Communists in the state
university alone, merely waiting for
word from Moscow to blow up the build-
ings. We congratulate the Hearst press
on its perspicacity and on its sincere pa-
triotism in nailing this incipient crisis in
the bud.”

At the University of Chicago, where
Frederick L. Schuman, professor of po-
litical science, has been publicly request-
ed to “resign by Mr. Hearst, the Daily
Maroon, university paper, recently pub-
lished a front page answer to Mr. Hearst -
by Prof. Schuman. Accompanying this
was an editorial reprinted from a Hearst
paper and also a Daily Maroon edi-
torial.

The University of Michigan (Ann
Arbor) boasts the honor of having been
the location of the~first-fraternity house
to be built in America, in 1846.

Prof. A. L. Hacquaert, of the Uni-
versity of Ghent (Belgium), has learned
the English language in two months by
listening to other people’s conversations
while on a tour of the American uni-
versities.

“rr was NEWS...” ¢ftears Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO
J. Wilson McCutchan is elected editor

of The Davidsonian ... “Y” Cabinet to
be installed Sunday .. . Reporters Club
issues bids to sixteen writers . . . Dr.
W. L. Lingle to deliver Baccalaureate
sermon at Carolina ... 'Cats place four
men in Georgia Tech Relays ... Stu-
dents to hear Miss Nella Sharpe in organ
concert ... Wildcats lose to W. & L. and
V. M. I. in baseball . . ..Golf team de-
feats Wake Forest, 22-2... Red and
Black Masquers present “Wapping
Warf.”

TEN YEARS AGO

Baseball team loses to Tar Heels, 8-3
. . . Freshmen defeat Duke, 22-8...
"Kitten orators win over Wake Forest in
debate . . . New Student Council to take
oaths during coming week’. . . Junior
Speaking furnishes entertainment for
campus ... Tennis Team plans trip to
the eastern part of the state this week...

“Y" officers and cabinet installed .. .
Debating team has two more meets .. .
Sigma Upsilon, honorary fraternity,
initiates four men.
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Baseball team defeated by Carolina
and State... Hon. T. W. Bickett, gov-
ernor of North Carolina, speaks to stu-

dents... A. L. Currie chosen president
of Student Body ... Band takes six-
day trip . . . Students hear Glee Club

from Mitchell College ... Golf team de-
feated by Gastonia Country Club. . .
Volunteer Band holds feed’. . . Sopho-
more banquet held.
TWENTY YEARS AGO

Davidson defeats Charlotte Hornets,
8-7 . . . Davidson wins debates over
Emory and Agnes Scott... Dr. J. R.
Bridges preaches at Church . ... Annual
field day planned for April 29. . . Class
baseball starts ... Baseball team defeats
Richmond College (University: of Rich:
mond), 6-1, and Wofford 5-3.

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

“1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D. WEEKS

Fine Printing

UEEN CITY: |
PRINTING CO.

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOE, WADSWORTH

