THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 16, 1935

The Dabidsontan

Founded by the Class of 1916

1935 Member’ 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

fairly well convinced that it plays some small part
in Davidson life.

It is your newspaper, so use it as you would any
other thing that belongs to you. The staff encourages
you to make The Davidsonian a real means by which
student opinion shall be molded and in which student
life may be recorded as it progresses.

AROUND WASHINGTON

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter ‘at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions Intended for publication must be signed.

MAWIONTUBROWN: = 930. -4 0 rg,

Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jim Morton ---- --Managing Editor

By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent)

Washington, D, C.—After a young college man
has been in this town for about a year he often finds
that his acquaintances are limited to_ fellow class-
mates he knew well at school and to the people he
| meets in his own department. Quite often he drifts
completely away from his classmates and confines
his after-hour friendships to co-workers. Once he
has done that he has become part of an interesting
social pattern fairly prevalent here, a sort of tribal
arrangement with government departments substi-
tuted -for tribes.

To elucidate, what is meant is that in Washington,
employees of one department are very apt to main-
tain social relations mostly with people in their own
department. A young man in the NRA has three
dates with young ladies in the NRA for every date
he has with outsiders, A young lady in the AAA,

HIGWELL OVERTON () laudusoccs eelecesesl Managing Editor
HAROLO SUCG, coesce os eccveudueclauuoeet Managing Editor
DAYMOND “LURNER “cc dusssuavassstaeusen Managing Editor |

JDHNMVWINNa eon tis pbb oe eS eC les yoy Managing Editor |

Harry Kuyk eee wales een Sports Editor
MARTIN BARNSYP"... 2... 2.2..0...2.....-Assoctate Editor |
BUARVE = ODASS ee eAe con een eno cy 4ssociate Editor |

PAUDSEUARLAN cont osoccene sr sae oso seey Associate Editor |
MGM eNUNGTANT Ooo Sore ol eon evs ey Associate Editor
VOHNEIWWAUKER Gece ecccecevecuceces rey Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

EA pernpsse cong ay SP pe RE 7 Circulation
PRireceucuccussttesecustnccLe Circulation
~.Circulation

JSabeNuLukucwouLunee? Advertising
iy SIS RET Collection
Briel Ven iprsesw see semen ear Assistant Business

Manager
Manager
Manager
Manager

Manager
Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1935
Re fast hold of instruction: let her not go: keep
is thy life. Prov. 4:13.

WILMER “BUD” HUNTER |

The, Davidsonian pauses with his many
friends to pay respects to the memory of our
fellow student, “Bud” Hunter, who, last week,
“in the twinkling of an eye,” was taken from
the tumult and unrest of this earth into the
indescribable peace See AE

DAVIDSON’S BAND

The Davidson Band has long been a subiect ‘of

discussion. It has been severely criticized and strong-
ly upheld, according to the degree of understanding

possessed by those involved in the discussion. An
unreasoning prejudice has been evidenced in more
than one instance. However, from ‘the t, this or-

ganization has displayed a quality of brilliance in
its performances unsurpassed by any of its kind in

this section of the country. On the air the |

sand has
been the very personification of this paper's motto,
“For a better, Davidson.” It has carried far and wide
the name of Davidson College and always has added
a little-to-the teéling of respect. and good will to-
ward the institution. In all appearances away from
the Hill it has maintained a high degree of excellence
and impressed all with whom it came in contact. It
seemed to havebteached the top of its form last Sat-
urday before the crowd assembled for the Davids n-
South Carolina game.

It has taken many hours of hard drilling to keep
those lines straight down the length of the field. Per-
fect timing and alignment always takes hard work.
Every man in the Band deserves all the support and
approval we can give him. Drum Majors Helms and
Baker are the meringues of this unparalleled musical
pie. To Baker especially we take our hats off. To
Professor Pfohl and his able assistants Babcock and
Cunningham goes a large share of the credit, for
without their leadership all the talent now included
in the Band would have amounted to little.

USE THE DAVIDSONIAN ...

For twenty years The Davidsonian has been in
existence on the Davidson campus. We like to be-
lieve that during this time it has served as a bene-
ficial medium for college news and the expression of
student and faculty thought. Such is the purpose for
which the paper is printed each week, and with these
few lines here let us urge members of the student
body, professors of the college, alumni and friends
to feel absolutely free to use the pages of The Da-
vidsonian as a means of giving vent to any construc-
tive ideas you might care to express.

Until last week when The Davidsonian copy was
mysteriously prevented from reaching the print shop,
many of us were rather dubious about whether or not
it would be appreciably missed by the readers. Now,
however, after being asked by numerous men-about
the campus “Where is The |Davidsonian,” we are

although she may often look wistfully at the young
men in the Department of Justice, is usually forced
to accept her lot, which seems to take the form of a
steady diet of young AAA statisticians,

Young men and women, limited in this manner
finally begin to rationalize the limitation, and then
to adopt it unconsciously as a policy. The AAA peo-
ple have exclusive little parties on holiday evenings,
limited to people in some particular office. The Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation's personnel fol-
lows the same trend, with a little informal picnic now
and then.

It's good for office morale though. When you see
old J. b. Grampus, head of your division, whom you
had previously believed was not so much a man as a
disembodied roaring from an inner_office, at the of-
fice’s Hallowe'en party, masquerading as A Sharp
Rise In Prices, you feel that never again will you
tremble at that roaring. You almost feel like putting
in overtime for old J. B.

Such office gatherings however cause clannishness
between offices to increase. Each group begins to hi ve
its Own secrets, its own interests, and even its own
terminology. in order for old J. B. to have come
disguised as .\ Sharp Rise In Prices, he had to as-
sume a certain basis of understanding among the

Ti fis vince, Demg statisticians steeped in the
jargon of the business they inimediately identified
him for what he represented. :

On the other hand if he had entered in a costume
symbolizing Supplementary Relief, the greatest con-
fusion would have prevailed. But it would have been
child’s play for an FERA employee to label him cor-
rectly. Because ten to one the FERA man once used

| that idea himself, at a party given by some member
| of the FERA staff!

After a year in Washington the college man or
woman begins to find himself behaving somewhat
similarly. He falls into the routine. In a vague way
he begins to wonder what sort of chaps work in some
of the other departments, just as a Harvard nfan
» often finds himself faintly curious as to what sort
of chaps go to Princeton. He suspects they may be
perfectly all right but he isn’t quite sure.

Occasionaly, meeting an old classmate from an-
other department, they get to discussing the merits
of their respective bureaus, the importance to society
of the work done by each. Smith of Harvard and
the Resettlement Administration and Jones of Harv-
ard and the TVA are cordial until inadvisedly Smith
happens to let drop the remark:

“T see where the court reversed you fellows on
the Dinklefogle case.”

This happens to be a sore spot with the TVA, and

Jones reacts as if someone had thrown mud_on the
flag. Ina half hour they are calling each other names
and each is sneering openly at the other fellow’s
outfit.
) te result is that Smith begins to look upon the
Resettlement Administration as he once looked upon
Harvard, and Jones has the same feeling of loyalty
to the TVA as Harvard once aroused in him, What
happens? As an indirect result Smith will never feel
quite right about meeting girls employed by the
TVA, and Jones will be uncomfortable in the pres-
ence of the Resettlement Administration’s young
ladies. Potential romances are nipped in the bud and
the buds are plowed under, just because Smith hap-
pened to meet Jones the day after the decision was
handed down in the Dinklefogle case.

Something will have to be done about this spirit
of clannishness. A Committee of Inter-Departmental
Social Relations will have to be formed to promote
understanding between the estranged Smiths and
Joneses. The Smiths in one department will have to
be shown that the Joneses in another department are
their equals, that chemically Smith and Jones are on
a par, that culturally they are on the same plane,
that they must not allow prejudice to rule them.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

CLANKINGS FROM A
COLD RADIATOR

A change of weather gives the season
character; and already we have felt in-
termittent blasts that presage future cold
weather. The heat that slowly crept into
the dormitories was cordially welcomed
by a shivering Student Body. But tempest
could not prevent-nor could heat hold
the flight to Virginia. And this week, a
dance: which should make hay for a col-
umnist. It should, but nobody bit a dog
this week (although Harris did chase a
cat in the Tavern) so there really wasn't
much news. Or else the dog kept his muz-
zle locked; not a bad idea.

CAVALIERS

Choice bits that
stigma of age: Virginia was con-
luding hing n and Harpo
Harlan, wandering into one of the
lodges, barely escaped from a hot-
box with his Phi Gam pin still on.
“Sonny Boy’”’ Allen quibbled with
John Law and at the Mary Bald-
win fete, the Davidson Tux out-
shone diverse military uniforms
from the hinterlands. CHEVA-
LIERS: To the Charlotte Horse
Show trotted John Partridge, Tom
Breeden, Mal Grimes and Cokey
Branton, to complete their knowl-
edge. Among others at Converse
was Carlos Young, which reminds
of a joke about a shoe salesman.

survive the

A TAVERN IN THE TOWN

Queerly enough, the past week's hom-
age to Terpsichore produced no bird-in-
the-cage. Have times The
SAE chapter in toto reverted to snakes
for the benfit of Editor who,
lately singing “Where is my wandering
boy this week,” may have lost someone
besides The Davidsonian. ‘This would be
the prize snaking performance of the
week had not Tricky Dave snaked on
himself. The Kappa hard
time of it. Billy Hill and George Nor-
fleet met every train and bus for five
hours straight and then learned that their
dates came to the wrong town. Carl
Zarlson and Howard Summerrell, slighted
by a delinquent bus’ took a truck to
‘ , te minutes *before the

changed ?

srown

Sigs had a

bus arnove

But the coup-de-grace for the
week-end was the gathering at the
Tavern after the Informal, lead
by several prominents ken
press immunity. Singing and buy-

‘o claim

ing silverware were in order. Full
perfect October weather:
this set of dances was the prelude,
we hope, to a gay Homecoming.

moon,

RAMBLINGS

With Carolina demolishing Tennessee,
the World concluded and the
Ethiopian controversy raging, spirit runs
high on the campus. Cokey and Henry
Lyons, ‘Tennessee just
coming out of hiding and Junior ROTC
officers, who are

Series

advocates, are

getting up earlier so
they can wear their new uniforms longer,
are expecting commissions, from Haile
Selassie.

We may be dumb, plebian or
just haven’t been around but we
have never seen ‘“‘Yams’’ except on
menus. Back in our Gopher Prai-
rie they are called sweet potatoes.
Davidson needs: Fortune and Van-
ity Fair at the Library, hymnbooks
for first rows in rear chapel sec-
tion and rubber runners for the

aisles.

A freshman named Ammen finished
last in the cake race. In English Thir-
teen there are enrolled a and
Frieze. She was just a Quarryman’s
daughter and did she take a lot for gran-
ite?

Snow

CAMPUS PLUTOCRAT NO. ONE

In the interests of recovery, we
shall submit each week an encour-
aging interview with a business
power of the hill: This week, none
other than “Live Wire’ Okey, the
aerial magnate. Says Okey: “The
aerial business higher than
ever.’’ He entered the business to
keep the freshman mortality rate
down. Quoth Okey: “If your radio
doth squeal and whistle; so you
can’t hear the Crazy Crystals;
Chances be your aerial’s dopey;
Call us up, we fix it, Okey.”
Freshmen may be a little bashful

about coming to pep meetings but once
they arrive, they go in for it in a big
way. Ye Calumnist was Stranded for a
few hours Friday night seven miles north
of Charlotte but arrived in time to see

a Freshman without pants. “I gave them

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

PAYING FROSH

Penn State (State College, Pa.) frosh
are PAYING for the privilege of being
rushed by fraternities this year!
Contrary to the time-worn tradition, the
freshmen are being assessed a fee of
fifty cents when they apply for date
cards prior to the opening of the rush-
ing season. Non-payment of the fee re-
sults in deferment of pledging for thirty
days—should the yearling be asked to
pledge. The fraternity coffers will
profit to the extent of about $350 as a
result of the new method, which
been successfully used at the University
of Michigan and the University of ‘Wis-

has

consin,

“DOOK”

After the Duke-W. & L. game, two
“Dook” University boys a few
alligators out of the ornate pool in the
Hotel Jefferson and proceeded to prod
them up and down the. stairs the
cheers of onlookers. Some others
ejected the colored elevator boy and put
into effect their ideas about the proper
way to operate the thing. . . One ambi-
tious lad decided that a little exercise
would do him good. He wandered into
the nearest bowling alley, and removing
his coat, challenged someone to a game.
Slightly inebriated, he neglected to re-
lease his hald on the first ball and was
dragged the length of the alley on his
stomach. Not in the least deterred by
this rather awkward start, he strutted
back to the front of the establishment
and belligerently seized another ball. This
time he managed to let go of the ball,
but thrown off balance by the force of
lis delivery he ended up flat on his back.
Rather crestfallen, he sheepishly picked
up his coat and slunk from the scene of
his ungraceful demonstration. (Duke
Chronicle).

tished

to

DEBATORS

Debate teams representing Oxford and
Cambridge Universities will arrive in
New York on October 29, on the Beren-
garia for tours sponsored by the Na-
tional Students Federation. Approxi-
mately thirty engagements have been ar-
ranged for each team. . . Still in the off-
ing, but not yet definitely announced, is
a trip for the debating team of the Uni-
versity of North. Carolina to debate in
Europe. This tour will also be sponsored
by the National Students Federation.

LUCKY ROOTERS

University of North Carolina students
who — attended the Carolina-Maryland
football game were not charged with a
probational cut. What Luck! . . . Danc-
ing lessons and contract bridge lessons
are being sponsored by the directors of
Graham Memorial at the University of
North Carolina. A freshman will have
control of the dancing lessons. . . Last
week, Carolina students gathered at Me-
morial Hall to commemorate the 142nd
year of the institution. President Frank
P. Graham was the speaker for the oc-
casion.

CAMPUS ETIQUETTE

New developments in campus etiquette
as outlined by a dean of the University
of Towa. He thinks that students should
wait three minutes for an insrtuctor to
appear, five for an assistant professor,
eight for an associate professor and ten
for a full professor or dean. .
we amend: O. K.—if the faculty will
do this: Allow the Fréshmen to be two

. To which

minutes late, sophomores five minutes,
juniors ten minutes and seniors fifteen
minutes.

COLLEGIANA

Woodrow Wilson's first honorary de-
gree came to him from Wake Forest
University in 1887. While President of
Princeton he received honorary degrees
from nine universities. . . Ten thousand
students at a Los Angeles relief school
are paid to attend school—docked if
they cut classes too... It is now im-
possible to get a college degree in Italy
without proficiency in military science.
... The average football suit weighs 34
pounds, which is about the weight of a
trotting horse sulky.

There was an “almost” tragedy at
Columbia University during fraternity
“Hell Week.” Four pledges were sent to
Bernard College and told to propose to
the first girls they saw—two accepted.
Fraternities should watch rough stuff
like that. Kyrl's famous Symphony
Band will play at Farmville Teachers
College on October 18, Six days later,
they will fill their engagement at Da-
vidson College. . . A scientist revives a
frozen monkey and receives world-wide
acclaim—college boys revive ‘Model T”
Fords and think nothing of it. . . An
honest man is the noblest work of God.

“Compare The NEWs”

From DAVIDSONIANS
e e e of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Plans for first issue of “The Yowl”
are going forward. W. C. Ragin is the
first Editor... Wildcats to meet Citadel
Saturday ... Dr. Harry Rimmer will
speak at the Y. M. C. A. vespers Sunday
... Dr. H. E. Kirk to be heard by stu-
dent body as Ott's lecturer . . . Duke
defeats Davidson

12-0 in hard-fought
battle . . . Wildkittens to play Wofford
rosie.) Home-coming Announced as
Oct. 25... . Decathlon to be held next
month . . . Enrollment reaches 622. . .

Slight drop from previous year. due to
depression,

TEN YEARS AGO

Davidson Defeats Guilford, 26-0. . .
Wildcats to meet P. C. at Rock Hill Sat-
urday ... J. B. Duke dies in New York.
Davidson to receive two million dollars
in stocks from his estate . . . ‘Kittens de-

feated 14-0 by High Point... Mr. J. B.
Johnson of Barium Springs talks at ves-
pers... Frosh to meet P. C. Frosh this
week ... O. D. K. initiates nine men...
Wrestling practice to start soon... Mr.
Tom Glasgow of Charlotte to speak at
vespers .; . New R. O. T. C. corporals
are to be appointed soon,

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

D. C. to meet Wake Forest in Char-
lotte on the sixteenth Davidson
downed by Georgia Tech, 66-0. W. P.
Cumming starts class in Jiu-Jitsu
Prospects bright for Basketball team this
year . A special train is being ar-
ranged to take students to the Wake For-
est game in Charlotte ... Large amount
of intérest being shown in Golf Team...
Dr. E. A. Byers leads “Y" vesper serv-
ice... Dr. W. D. Weatherford to con-
duct the fall services.

THIS COLEGIATE WORLD

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

The funniest campus incident we have
heard this fall happened during the regis-
tration period at the University of Min-
nesota (Minneapolis).

Mr. Asher Christensen, a professor,
was strolling past two long lines of fresh-
men. One line consisted of freshmen who
planned to be doctors and were register-
ing for pre-medicine courses. ‘The other
line was filled with those about to-enter
pre-business courses.

A small voice from the end of the
“pre-medicine line” piped a call to Mr.
Christensen,

“Hi, mister,” the frosh said, “which is
the longest line?”

The professor considered. “I would say

matt

for my alma mater,” explained Sherrod,
with a heroic gesture.

BABEL

As incomprehensible as a stuttering
German. As full of alibis as*a freshman.
What freshman recently played on his
High School football team? What Pi
Kappa Phi football hero receives letters
with powder in them? WILL the soph-
omores have to carry umbrellas to chapel ?

Mills Taylor: Watchful waiting.

your line is about 25 feet longer,” Chris-
tensen answered.

“Okay,” the boy said, stepping out of
the queue, “I’m a business man already.”
And he registered for pre-business !

Today we have very sad news for pro-—
prietors of restaurants near college
campi.

It is beginning to look as if fasting is
a considerable aid to study.

Drs. M. H. Elliott and W. C. Troat,
Harvard University psychologists, have
been experimenting with rats and have
attained results that indicate the animals
respond with a conditioned reflex, the
most elemental manifestation of learning,
twice as quickly when they are starved
as when they have food in their stom-
achs. Even a tiny bite of food cut down
their aptitude considerably.

Somewhat different studies on the same
subject have recently been made at Col-
gate University where Prof. Donald A.
Lair tested groups of brain workers af-
ter light and heavy lunches. After light
meals they were 8.6 per cent faster in
learning and made 25.3 per cent fewer
errors. The idea being that a-big meal
draws too much blood to the stomach and
produces temporary “brain anemia.”
