FRESHMEN DEBATE
TRYOUTS SET FOR
FRIDAY, DEC. 6

The Davbidsonian

ALENDA

LUX UB

1 ORTA LIBERTAS

SEE THE DEACONS
BOW TO OUR ’CATS
AS SEASON’S CLIMAX

VOL. XXIill

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1935

NUMBER 8 ,

FIVE DEBATE

ARE CHOSEN ON
WARSITY SQUAD

Boggs, Port, Salango, Stewart,
And Sugg Are Selected
From Contestants

FOUR ARE EXPERIENCED

Fifteen Men Tryout in Eu-
menean Hall Friday
Night

Of the fifteen contestants that tried
out for the Varsity debating team in
Eumenean Hall Friday night Wade
Boggs, Tyler Port, James Salango, Rob-
ert Stewart, and Harold Sugg were
chosen to represent Davidson.

Paul Harlan, Heywood Hill, and
Charles Mauze were selected as alter-
nates, Four of these men have had pre-
vious experience. The -contestants.were
judged by Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr, Cum-
ming, Professors E. J. Erwin, E. A.
Beatty, and J. C. Bailey.

The topic for debate was “Resolved:
That Congress should be empowered by
a two-thirds majority vote to override a
five-four decision of the Supreme Court,
declaring an act unconstitutional.”

Present at the debate, in addition to
judges and contestants, were a number of
freshmen, and the chairman of the eve-
ning, Fitz Dade.

The tentatively arranged debates for
the Southern Tour are with the Univer-
sity of South Carolina, Emory Univer-
sity, and the University of Miami. On
the western trip the debating team will
meet Sewanee University, the University
of West Virginia, and Washington and
Lee University. The debates for the
northern tour are with Swarthmore Uni-
versity, the University of Richmond, the
University of Maryland, and _ possibly

(Continued on Page 6)

Dramatic Club To
Give Unusual Play

Red And Black Masquers Will
Present ‘Whistling In The
Dark” Tuesday

Of course you've whistled in the dark,
but the chances are against your ever
having done it in the middle of the night
with revolvers pointing at you from all
avenues of escape, with the threat of
death hanging over your head, and over
that of the girl you love.

That's what Wallace (Wade Barrow)
Porter, the hero of “Whistling in the
Dark,” did, and you may see it for your-
self when the Red and Black Masquer)
present this recent New York success in
the Chambers Auditorium on the evening
of-Tuesday, November 26, at 8:00 P. M.

Porter and his fiancee (Mrs. Grier
Martin) are house-hunting for a nice
large, quiet home in the country. They
find it, but it is uncomfortably full of
gangsters, These are quite amiable at
first, trying to get rid of the homeseek-
ers, but Wally’s tongue is loosed by their
hospitality, and his boasts of proficiency
in the writing of crime and mystery fic-
tion, and of his ability to concoct the
“perfect crime,” bring about a change in
their attitude, and his presence becomes
more highly valued. In fact, he is locked
in, with his girl (poor fellow!), and in-
structed to plot a clueless murder to be
executed against the Crime Commission-
er, or be cluelessly murdered himself.

With a radio, a telephone with cut
wires, and a considerable number of
guards, he sets to work, and, while the
action from this point on cannot be told
here, a ticket to the play will be your
pass to a very humorous and exciting
solution to the problem faced by these
two young and frightened lovers.

Dr. Frontis Johnston, of the history
department, who saw the play at the
Ethel Barrymore Theatre in New York
during its metropolitan run, remembers,
after some three or four years that the
dialogue and situations were, in his own
words, “hilarious.” The role of Porter
was taken in the original production by
Ernest Truex, a most capable comedian.
Dr. Johnston considers this play ex-
cellent movie material.

Plans Announced For
Sophomore Dance Set

The Sophomore Class will spon-
sor its 1 set of d in the
Charlotte Armory on the week-end
of December the thirteenth and
fourteenth, featuring Jelly Leftwich
and his orchestra.

During the past winter, Jelly Left-
wich played at the Belvedere Hotel
in Baltimore, and at the Hotel
Belvue-Stratford in Philadelphia.
Last summer this group of mu-
sicians played at Virginia Beach,
and at the present they are playing
on the Shell program. Miss Kay
Keever, their talented soloist, can
well be remembered for her lovely
voice and striking beauty.

The set will consist of three
dances: a formal dance, Friday
night from ten until two; a tea
dance, Saturday afternoon from four
until six; and the informal dance
from eight-thirty until midnight that
evening.

ALUMNI MAKING
PLANS FOR GIFT

Social Center, Church Are Lead-
ing Causes For Centennial
Contribution

Plans are being made for an Alumni
Gift, and alumni have been asked to tell
what their preferences are, to which they
would prefer to have their money con-
tributed. Leading causes are: social cen-
ter, church, infirmary, library, and field
house, in the order named but.very close.

Following these in popularity is the
Alumni Scholarship system,
“The Socra, CENTER would include

places of recreation for the students and
provide facilities for the entertainment
of guests on the campus.

“The need for a new CHuRCH BuILp-
inc has long been recognized, since the
building now used is entirely inadequate
to the needs of the college and the com-
munity. Not only is the church insuffi-
cient in size but it is uncomfortable and
not conducive to religious influence.

“The frame house which now houses
Davidson’s INFIRMARY ige almost a
disgrace to a college of the size and im-
portance of Davidson. A new. building
with modern equipment could be built
for a relatively small sum.

“Modern educational institutions
growing more and more dependent on
their Liprartes for their best work.
Davidson's Liprary is decidedly behind
the times in this respect, and a new build-
ing is almost an essential to the college.

“Since the inauguration, of Davidson's
program of athletics for all several years
ago, a great need has been felt for a
large Firtp House which would accom-
modate a great many more participating
students. The gymnasium now used has
only one basketball court and practically
no other facilities.

“An Alumni Scholarship system would
allow members of local groups to give
to a scholarship fund which would send
an outstanding boy from the community
to Davidson.”

These quotations from the last num-
ber of the Alumni Journal sum up the
causes to which Alumni desire to con-
tribute as a Centennial Gift.

Davidsonian Man Edits
Journalistic Handbook

A Handbook for Reporters has recently
been made available for the use of the
DAVIDSONIAN 6$ssstaff. This booklet
was compiled and edited by Daymond
Turner, one of the managing editors.

In mimeographed form, it attempts to
cover the most frequently misunderstood
points of elementary news writing, copy
preparation, and head writing. Material
was drawn principally from Editing the
Days News, by Bastian, The NSPA
Scorebook, and the style books of sev-
eral metropolitan newspapers.

Turner prepared the handbook as part
of a summer course in journalism and
was assisted in getting it into present
form by Wesley Coghill, Howell Over-
ton, and Locke White of the DAVID-
SONIAN staff.

are

An Ed

itorial

At a meeting last week, the student council voted unanimously to undertake to
better studying conditions in the dormitories by eliminating all unnecessary noises
after seven P. M. The program places violators of already existing rules concern-

ing the maintenance of proper study c
expressed in the following three articles

onditions under council discipline, and is

I. The student council shall have the right and duty to remove from the dormi-
tories to other lodging, any person whose conduct is consistently annoying, and

which conduct interferes with the proper
II. A representative shall be appointed

studying conditions of any student.
on each hall of Watts, Georgia, East, and

West dormitories, on each side of Rumple dormitory, and in North and South
dormitories. The function of this representative shall be solely to receive com-

plaints, and is not that of a monitor. He

is not, himself, responsible for the conduct

of the men on his hall, but shall receive complaints from men on his hall, and shall

then report them to the proper authority

for investigation. In brief, the purpose of

establishing such a representative on each hall is to facilitate the reporting of
conduct which does not permit proper studying conditions to be maintained.

ILI. The first complaint against a student shall be deferred for investigation to
a committee to be appointed from the student council. If the complaint is justi-
fiable, the committee shall attend the offender and shall render to him suggestions
concerning his future. conduct. Second complaints against the aforementioned stu-

dent, if justifiable, shall call for trial bef

ore the student council, which, if it deems

wise, shall employ the right described in Article 1 against the offender,

The council sincerely hopes that the student body will join so completely in the
movement, that use of this new power will be unnecessary. However, in view of
the increasing amount of noise in the dormitories, it has deemed it wise to adopt

the program as outlined, and will not, fa
the dormitories, should such action beco

il to effect the removal of any man from
me necessary.

Attention is especially called to Article Il. The representatives therein provided
for are purely for the convenience of men on each hall who wish to register com-
plaints. Should any man wish to turn in his complaint direct to the president of the
student council, he is welcome to do so at any time.

Students having complaints to make are requested to turn them in immediately,

so that investigation may proceed withou'

t delay. The new measure is not intended

to be unreasonable, but is designed to clear up a situation which seems to be unique
at Davidson, and which is most certainly undesirable.

Carieton B. CHAPMAN

.

Frosh To Try Out
For Debate Team

Trials To Be Held Dec. 6 For
Chance To Participate
In Two Meets

In order that this year's peculiarly
argumentative freshmen (who may be
seen engaging in lengthy and voluble
dispute and debate almost any Monday
morning at laundry carrying time) may
divert some of their surplus energy into
more harmless channels, a couple of de-
bates have been arranged for the first-
year men.

Trials will be held. Friday, December
6, Harold Sugg announced to a group
of about a dozen freshmen, who made
known their intentions of trying out for
the Freshman Debating Team.

The freshmen team this year will have
a little more opportunity of getting prac-
tice than in years previous, Sugg said.
There will be one debate on, and one off
the campus for the aspiring youngsters.
The off campus debate will probably not
be out of the state, unless possibly in
South Carolina.

Freshman topic for trials, will be the
same as the Varsity try-out topic last
week which was: ‘Resolved that Con-
gress should be permitted by a two thirds
majority vote to override a five-four de-
cision of the Supreme Court.” Either the
affirmative or negative side of the ques-
tion may be taken.

A number of freshmen were present
at the Varsity tryouts, Friday evening,
and seem encouraged by what they heard.

The team will be composed of two
teams and two alternates.

Speeches will be limited to five min-
utes, and though men will be allowed to
discuss the topic among themselves or
upper-classmen, the speeches must
original.

Material may be found, from which to
work up this debate, in Room 6 of the
Library.

be

French Honor Society

Meets With Dr. Watts

The honorary French society, Le Cer-
cle Francais, held its last meeting Tues-
day night, November 19, at the home of
Dr. G. B. Watts. A short business meet-
ing was held before the program was
begun. *

Scenes from the French play “Knock”
were given by Ralph McClelland, Sam
Cothran, and Val Cassels. This play
deals with a quack doctor and his practice
on two country yokels. It tells of the
ridiculous remedies which he prescribed
for them in a very humorous way.

After these skits Frank Tucker sang
several songs and the members of the
society played French games. At the end
of the meeting Mrs. /Watts served re-
freshments to all of those present.

Col. Catts Visits —
Local ROTC Unit

Head of: 4th Corps Area Well
Pleased With Condition
Of Local, Armory

Colonel Catts, who has recently been
given charge of the R.O.T.C. branch of
Military Training in the fourth corps
area, held an informal inspection of the
Davidson R.O.7T.C. unit here last Mon-
day, Nov. 18. The Colonel was unable to
uttend the parade in the afternoon, but
said he was pleased with the property
and centralization of the local unit.

In the morning Colonel Catts called
on President Lingle and later visited the
Armory and spoke with Colonel Rhett,
Major Cochran, and Major Seifert. He
Jeclared that he was especially impressed
with the manner in which the property
was kept.

Colonel Catts saw combat service in
France with the 319th Infantry and af-
ter the Armistice he was assigned to the
general staff AEF. He is a graduate of
he Army War College, Infantry School,
and Field Officer's course.

The main purpose of
visit make
and become acquainted with those with
whom he will work.

A large crowd was assembled on the
parade ground to see the battalion review
and among those present was Congress-
man Bulwinkle. The
pressed himself as being pleased with the
appearance of the corps.

The inspecting officer was pleased to
find that the R.O.T.C. unit here
placing much emphasis on making each
man a good citizen, for this is the wish
of the War Department.

He believed that the R.O.T.C. should
cause an appreciation of honor, duty,
and love of one’s country. It should teach
a man to stand on his own feet and look
his fellow men straight in the eye. The
War Department realizes that when a
man is a good citizen he will make an
excellent soldier,

Dr. Gwynn Talks Twice
During the Past Week

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, professor of
education, has made two addresses dur-
ing the past week. Last Sunday he
preached for the Myers Park Church
in Charlotte.

Catts’
contacts

Colonel

was to personal

congressman ¢€x-

was

On Thursday, November 14, Dr.
Gwynn went to North Wilkesboro. There
he spoke for the Fathers’ Night of the
Parent-Teachers’ Association, on the sub-
ject of “Modern Youth Facing a Chang-
ing World.”

Dr. Gwynn will conduct the vesper
services in the college auditorium next
Sunday,

New Carpets Are Now
In College Auditorium

Rubber runners have at last been
secured by the college for the audi-
torium aisles, thus filling a long-felt
need. When the present system of
Sunday vesper services was initiated
ated, the noise caused by the ushers
and late arrivals was not felt to be
in keeping with the spirit of the
services, and the need for these run-
ners for the aisles has long been
appreciated.

The three central aisles, those
most needed, have been supplied
with the carpets, made of heavy
ribbed rubber which cushions the
footfalls and effectively deadens the
sounds.

These runners will add materially
to the life of the flooring of the
aisles, preventing excessive wearing
where traffic is heaviest.

ALUMNI JOURNAL
BOS TO Phtvy

Alumni Publication To Feature
Class Reunions And Campus
Activities

The coming issue of the Alumni Jour-
al will have several features of inter-
est. Lhe cover design will feature a very
attractive view of the campus, looking
towards the Eumenean and Philan-
thropic Halls, from the direction of Oak
Row.

There is to be a story on the open-
ing of College, and details of the Home-
coming celebrations. Another important
announcement will be concerning the
Centennial Commemoration Plates, to be
made in honor of the Centennial Cele-
brations,

The little boy with the boxing gloves
who made such a touching appeal to
alumni in the last issue will be featured
again, pleading with loyal alumni to sup-
port the Alumni Association.

There will also be featured a picture
of the 1907 football .team, as the classes
of ‘08, '09, 10, and "11 will hold reunions
at the centennial celebrations, and mem
bers of these classes played on the 1907

team,

The Alumni Association is composed of
all alumni of Davidson College. ‘he
President for this year is Hugh A.
Query, '09; and the Treasurer F. LL.
Jackson, '06. As Alumni Secretary,
Grier Martin edits the magazine, the

organ of the Association.
Regular fetaures of the Alumni Jour-

nal are the Athletics section, entitled,
“With the Wildcats;” “With the Fac-
ulty;” “Alumni Mail; and) “Alumni

Deaths.’

Alumni are kept in contact with the
College, not only through the Journal,
hut through the files in the alumni of
fice, giving addresses and information on
all men who have passed through Da-
There
alumni,

portals are also local
the
unions, which are held every five years.

The Centennial Gift Fund being
pushed by the Alumni Association. Pres-
ent votes place five different causes prac-
tically neck and neck in the balloting to
see to which cause the Gift Fund should
be donated. These causes are: a Social
Center; a Church; an Infirmary; a Li-
brary; and a Field House. Next after
these comes an Alumni Scholarship sys-

tem,

vidson's

chapters of and class re-

1s

Dr. Foreman Speaks To
Civitans in Charlotte

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of
ible and philosophy, was the principal
speaker at the weekly luncheon;of the
Charlotte Civitan Club at the Chamber
of Commerce last week.

In Dr. Foreman’s address, he gave an
account of his impressions of New Eng-
land during his stay there. He expressed
the belief that the cities of New Eng-
land are no different from the cities of
the South, but that the small towns, in
many respects, are more attractive than
small towns of the South.

“The New England countryside is
beautiful and deserves its reputation in

this respect,” he said.

WILDCATS [
VMI. CADETS
BY (4-6 oGORE

Pittman And Lafferty Are ‘The
Best Ground Gainers For
The Wildcats

DAVIDSON SCORES FIRST

OWN

Teams Play Under Adverse
Weather Conditions

The Davidson Wildcats gained their
fifth consecutive victory in the annual
game with Virginia Military Institute
Saturday, November 16, The game end-
ed with a 14-6 score that showed the
ihility of the Wildcats to work even
under poor weather conditions.

A small crowd watched the teams fight
in the mud and rain on Alumni Field at

Lexington, Although the Cadets under
Roberson’s leadership, out-gained — the
visitors, Davidson . benetited by . Pitt

man’s and Laffegts’s running and a suc-
cession of
and blocked punts,

Davidson scored a first period touch-
down after Clark's fumble was recovered
on V. M. L's 14 yard line. Pittman ran
around left end for a touchdown on the
second play and placekicked the extra
point. A Cadet drive of fifty yards failed
when Windham recovered another ftum-
ble on the Davidson 30 yard marker.
Iwice again the squadron returned into
\Wildeat territory only to the
first time on the 22 yard line and lose
the ball on downs at the 28 yard line in
the second, Pittman kicked out to the
V. M. I. 20 yard line where Cathey re-
covered, Roberson’s fumble at the end of
the quarter.

Pittman attempted a placekick from the
19 yard line that was wide and short.
The V. M. I. kick placed the ball in Da-
vidson’s hands on their own 50 yard
line. From there Lafferty ran 37 yards,
but Clark intercepted apass on the next
play. Lafferty made another gain of 27
yards when Davidson received the ball
in their own territory. The Wildcats fol-
lowed with three sharp thrusts which the
Cadets barely stopped. The ball went to
the 21, the 34, and the 2 yard line only
to be thrown back by the V. M. I.
ward wall. The half closed as Davidson
launched another attack on Cadet ground.

lhe third quarter began with a series

fumbles, intercepted passes,

fumble

for-

difficult to advance on the slippery field.
On the last punt Henry Cathey downed
the ball on the V. M. IJ. 39 yard line.
around leit the
first down. Armfield

Pittman end on
third play

raced, 22 yards on a spinner play for the

ran
for a

second touchdown after eight yards ‘of
Davidson the
goal line, Pittman’s placement

gains had placed nearer
Vie Niels
brought the score to 14-0; Pittman kicked
to the V. M, I. team which took the ball
thirty yards to the Davidson 36, only to
(Continued on Page 6)

New Vesper Plans
Released by Lingle

Noted Speakers Featured On
The Coming Programs

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the
college, has announced the plans for the
church services held each Sunday night
in Chambers Auditorium, at 6:30 o’clock,
for the four Sunday nights before the
beginning of the Christmas holidays,

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., professor otf
education, will speak on Sunday night,
November 24.

Dr, R. E. Speer, who will deliver the
Otts’ Lectures this year, be the
guest speaker at the service on day
night, December 1. Dr. Speer is a fig-
ure prominent in world affairs today and
in the Presbyterian Church.

Rev. A. W. Dick, the
First Presbyterian Church at [Fayette-
ville, N. C., will be the guest preacher
on Sunday night, December 8. Mr. Dick
is one of the younger men in the Pres-
byterian Church and a very interesting
speaker.

On Sunday night, December 15, the
last Sunday before the holidays, the
Y. M. C, A, will conduct a special Christ-

will

of the

pastor

mas vesper service.

of five punts after both teams found it -
