NOTED PIANIST .WILL
APPEAR HERE ON
TUESDAY, FEB. 12

Che Mavidsonian

ALENODA

LU xXx UBI

ORTA

LIBERTAS

PLANS MADE FOR LR.C.
CONFERENCE ON
FEBRUARY 21

Vol.. XXII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 6, 1935

No. 15

THREE PROMOTIONS
ARE ANNOUNCED BY
R.O.T.C. DEPARTMENT

Potter Promoted To Lieutenant-

Colonel, Coit To Major, And

» Yelverton To Captain
ORDER READ BY BATTE
These Officers To Receive Com-

missions This Spring

The Reserve Officers Training Corps
of Davidson College Wednesday an-
nounced the promotion of three of, its
officers.

A. J. Potter was promoted to the rank
of Lieutenant-Colonel, R. T. Coit to Ma-
jor, and Hugh Yelverton, Jr., to Captain.

“These men have shown their ability
both on the drill field and in the class-
room,” said Major Rhett, in announcing
their promotion. “Our officers are ad-
vanced as a result of their ability, and
often it is difficult to make a choice
among several outstanding men,” he said.

The headquarters order which was read
at the parade Wednesday by Cadet Cap-
tain J. M. Batte, Adjutant, was as fol-
lows: “Under authority conveyed in pro-
visions of A.R, 145-10, the following pro-
motions in the Cadet Corps of the Re-
serve Officers’ Training Corps Unit, this
institution, are announced: To be Cadet
Lieutenant-Colonel—A, J. Potter; to be,
Cadet” Major—R>T. Coit; to be Cadet
Captain—Hugh Yelverton, Jr., by order
of the P.M.S.&T., Chas, W. Seifert,
Captain—Infantry, Adjutant.”

A. J. Potter, of Barium Springs, was
promoted from the rank of Major,
which he has held since the opening of
the fall term. He is a member of Phi
Delta Theta, social fraternity, Omicron
Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity,
Scabbard and Blade, and Sigma Delta
Psi.

R. T. Coit of Richmond, Va., was pro-
moted from the rank of Captain. He is
a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron
Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Scab-
bard and Blade, Eta Sigma Phi, and Le
Cercle Francais. Recently he was elected

* as advisor to the Freshman class.

Hugh Yelverton, of Wilson, is a mem-
ber of Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity,
and Sigma Delta Pi. He is also the
secretary-treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic
Council.

All of the men are seniors and will
receive their commissions this spring.

Quadwranglers Club
To Honor Hardin Craig

The Qucdwranglers Club will give a
reception for Dr. Hardin Craig immed-
iately following his lecture here Friday,
February 14th.

Major John T. Rhett, president of the
Quadwranglers Club announced the re-
ception which will be held in the club
room in Chambers Building.

Dr. Craig’ will speak at 7:30 in Cham-
bers Auditorium on the subject “The
Opinion of Plenty.” Dr. Craig, who is a
member of the English department of
Leland Stanford University, is teaching
English at the University of North Car-
olina during its winter quarter.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn Attends
Meeting In Greensboro

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, professor of
Education, was in Gr Oo yes-
terday to attend the meeting of an
inter - d inational

soe,

whose purpose is the reorganiza-
tion’ of the North Carolina State
Sunday School Association.

Members have been selected
from each of the leading Protes-
tant denominations of the state, and
Dr. Gwynn was asked, with Dr.
W. L. Lingle, to represent the
Presbyterian group. Dr. Lingle,
however, was unable to attend the
conference yesterday.

At this meeting, the committee
discussed its plans for the creation
of a Council of Religious Educa-
tion to promote closer co-opera-
tion among the various denomina-
tions in their work with the young.

HARDIN GRAIG TO
LECTURE FEB. 14

Well-Known Lecturer Chooses As
His Subject “The Opinion
Of Plenty’’

Dr. Hardin Craig, well known lecturer,
will deliver an ‘address in Chambers Au-
ditorium, Thursday, February 14, at 7:30
P.M. and has chosen as his subject, “The
Opinion of Plenty.”

Dr. Craig describes his lecture as a
discussion of the function.of learning in
the community. This function deals pri-
marily with the phases of life affected by
institutions of learning.

The lecturer has contributed to nu-
merous magazines and learned periodi-
cals, He has also done work on several
English classics.

Dr. Craig received his degrees at Cen-
tre College, Danville, Kentucky, Prince-
ton, New Jersey and Exter College, Ox-
ford, “England. Dr. Hardin Craig was
professor of English at the University of
Minnesota from 1910 to 1917, at which
time he entered the service of the United
States’ Army. Later the lecturer be-
came head of the Department of English
at the State University of Iowa. Dr.
Craig is now teaching during the winter
quarter in the English department of the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

Other speakers will, be secured in con-
tinuation of a program to present not-
ables to the Student Body, as a special
fund has been set aside by the College
authorities for this purpose. Dr. Shew-
make, chairman of the faculty committee
on lecturers, will endeavor to obtain
speakers for various departments of the
college.

Scientific Motion Pictures
To Be Shown To Students

Two scientific motion picture films,
“Constitutions and Transformations of
the Elements” and “The Magic Key,”
will be presented to the physic and chem-
istry students, Friday, February 8th, in
the Martin Chemistry Building at 7:00
P. M.

“Constitutions and Tranformations of
the Elements,” a two reel talking pic-
ture, released under the auspices of ‘the
General Electric Company to the David-
son chemistry department, will precede
the showing of “The Magic Key.” Sir
Ernest Rutherford, the well known Eng-
lish scientist, relates and demonstrates his
theories of the elements in the “Consti-
tutions and Transformations of  Ele-
ments.” A resume of this motion picture
in one General Electric Booklet reads:
“This picture was made in England and
is of great educational merit.”

“The Magic Key,” an Ethyl-Dow
Chemical Company production, deals with
the recovery of bromine from sea water.
This silent picture describes the commer-
cial recovery of bromine from the sea,
once regarded as a fantasy of science,
but_which has been accomplished by
chemistry. This new industry is arising
from the development of a process by
which bromine is removed from the sea
water and converted into commercial
bromides.

The world’s only manufacturing plant
to be constructed on shore for this pur-
pose was built at Kure Beach, about
twenty miles south of Wilmington. The
output is being utilized entirely as a cop
stituent in Ethyl Products, used to im-
prove the anti-knock quality of gasoline,

This enterprise, however, will result
in a tremendous increase in the poten-
tial production of bromides in the United
States, affecting not only industry and
arts but. also the national defense, since
bromine is an essential element of certain
tear gases used in warfare. The location
of the bromine plant at Wilmington, fol-
lowed an extensive study of geographi-
cal conditions.
is approximately 15,000 pounds per day.

Professor O. J. Thies, Jr., of the
Chemistry department, viewed this  pic-
ture in St. Petersburg, Florida, at the
convention of the American Chemical
Societies. Professor Thies stated that
“The Magic Key” was of educational
value as well as offering. splendid en-
tertainment.

A motion picture program, consisting
of scientific films, will be presented to
membérs of the college who are taking
courses in either chemistry or physics. |
These films will be shown about every
two weeks in the’ lecture room of the

The output of the plant}

PIANTOT
CONCERT LAUDED
BY NEWoPAPER

American-Trained Artist Offers
Nine Compositions In Second
Concert Series

BRINKMAN IS PRAISED

Joseph Brinkman Possesses Great
Powers As A Pianist

Joseph Brinkman, an entirely Amer-
ican-trained pianist, will present the sec-
ond concert of the Davidson series on
Tuesday, February 12.

lian

His program will be as follows:
Gagiiitda: cuscsc cic ck gs Galilei-Respighi
NOMste: cecsscclse gAL Cs cease Serrano-Nin

Gigue

Sonate Op. 10 No. 3 ------- Beethoven
Prelude, Chorale, and Fugue--.-- Franck
NIPDITS “Cobdatéenccuenstisen ches Ravel
Oiseaux tristes
Une barque sur l’ocean
Alborada del gracioso
Mazurka, B minor -----<--_---. Chopin
Nocturne, C sharp minor ------ Chopin
Scherzo,-C sharp minor -~-------Chopin

The New York American said the fol-
lowing of some of the compositions he
will play: Poetical insight, combined
with technical virtuosoship, marked his
performance of three tone pictures by
Ravel, the moods ably and artfully diff-
erentiated, his fingers fleet and accurate
and peddling an example of taste and
judgment. His interpretation of Chopin's
C sharp minor nocturne disclosed an at-
tractive and sympathetic comprehension
of the language of that composer, in-
vested with revealing tonal color and
nuance, Mr. Brinkman was enthusiasti-
cally and deservedly applauded.

The Chicago Evening Post states: Mr.
Brinkman has the pianistic gift. His
fingers find their way naturally over the
keyboard and he brings from the piano
a tone rich in quality and capable of a

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 3)

LAA.0. MAKES
EARLY PLANS TO
HANDLE MEET

Rogers, Dubose And Brown To
Head Three Important Con-
vention Committees

NEW MEMBERS INITIATED

Otto Nathan Is Speaker For Col-
legiate Gathering

The International Relations Club held
its regular meeting on last Friday eve-
ning. At this meeting, about fifteen new
members were initiated into the organi-
zation. Talks were delivered before the
club by Paul Harlan, Bob Lindsay and
Harold Sugg. ‘These talks related to
national affairs of interest to the club
as a whole,

Most important of the business~dis-
cussed was the planning and discussion
for the International Relations Confer-
ence which is to be held here on the cam-
pus, February twenty-first. The David-
son club will be host at that time to
representatives from colleges and ‘uni-
versities over the entire south.

Invitations to the conference were sent
out several days ago, and replies of
acceptance have already begun to be re-
ceived, These replies came more’ es-
pecially from clubs in Georgia colleges
and universities and the conference is ex-
pected to entertain representatives from
a great part of the schools where clubs of
this nature have a place on the campus.

Dr. Otto Nathan, eminent German
politician and statesman, will be the prin-
cipal speaker at the conference. Dr.
Nathan is well qualified for such a con-
ference in that he is well-versed in the
national and international affairs of the
day. He first came to this country on
leave of absence from his own govern-
ment in 1930. He was the guest of the
Institute of Economics in Washington
during this first visit and later lectured
at New York University. His fame

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 4)

AN EDITORIAL

“LAISSEZ. FAIRE AND THE INEVITABLE DANCE”
(The Davidsonian does not necessarily endorse any opinions express-

ed in this article.)

On- the 14th and 15th of December, a great many of us attended a

set of Davidson College dances.
“de jure.”

They were such “de facto,” if not
The fact that an orchestra, a hall and decorations could be

paid for from the proceeds of ticket sales indicates that the Dances

were well attended.

This set of dances was arranged and directed by Davidson men. The

sponsor was the Sophomore class, in fact.

and financed by Davidson men.
this observer, a Davidson College

The affair was patronized

All of this made it, in the opinion of

function. Faculty chaperons were

in attendance which is evidence that the Administration shares the

writer’s opinion.

As a matter of record, the Student Body of Davidson College has
five or six of these dances in the course of a regular college year.

This is not a contention; it’s a fact.

Ask the professor of a first

period class why Saturday morning’s children have that tired feeling.
To him, the dance of the night before is as much a reality as it was to

a majority of his class.
—

One can readily see from the foregoing that the question the Stu-
dent Policies Union has raised is not whether Davidson men shall
dance. The truth of the matter is that they do—and with the tacit ap-
proval of the College—the real question is where the inevitable dancing

shall be done.

Those who are emphatically opposed to the Student Policies Union
say, in effect, that dancing is a form of social life which may readily

lend itself to abuses of unquestionably harmful character.

servation is a true one.

This ob-

It is even more liable to be true when dancing

is the occasion for mixed drinking in a city hotel.

Dancing can deaden the spiritual life, these observers say.

They

object to it on moral grounds. Therefore, the Student Body of David-

son College shall not dance on the property of the Church.

Accord-

ingly the inevitable dance is shunted off to Charlotte, twenty miles from

home.

This prohibition of the Church does not solve the moral problem in-

herent in dancing.

It intensifies it.

It is tantamount to a declaration

of “hands-off” policy on the part of those who have been entrusted

with the moral and intellectual lives of 600 or more young men.

is a kind of moral “laissez-faire.”

It

When the College bars its gates to dancing it says, in substance,
“take your moral problem elsewhere, settle it to suit yourselves.”

The problem of dancing is a moral one, to be sure.
of moral responsibility is on the College authorities.

3ut the burden
Only through

their initiative can dancing be purged of the abuses which attend it.
The only way to clean up dances is to control them, and they can be

controlled . . . at home.

Certainly the authorities can see that their policy. has rtither pre-

yented nor discouraged Student Body dances.

Certainly the moral

dangers attached to the dancing of Davidson College men will be greater
where the functions are virtually uncontrolled. Certainly there is a

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

challenge in these facts.

Davidson Alumnus To
Present Band Trophy

Byrd Thompson Crayton, a Dav-
idson alumnus of Charlotte, has
recently presented a trophy to be
awarded to the member of the
band who shows the most musical
improvement this year.

The trophy, of silver on a wood
base, bears on the plaque the out-
line of a lyre and the inscription,
with a space for the name of the
recipient. The trophy will be
awarded on the basis of musical
knowledge, sight reading in band
work, and technique, and will be
presented to the winner at com-
mencement.

Mr. Crayton, the donor, was,
while at Davidson, a member of
the band and glee club for three
years. He was also a captain in
the R.O.T.C., and manager of the
track team.

LENOIR GAND 10
OFFER CONCERT

Program To Be Played In Audi-
torium By State Champions
Is Listed .Here

The Lenoir High School band, state
high school winner, will present a con-
cert in the college auditorium Thursday,
February 7. This concert is independent
of the series and there is no admission
fee. a

The program will be as follows:
Florentiner March ~---.---------- Fucik
String Bass Solo Concerto No. 3
Bicacsuneonse Koussevitsky
Elizabeth Cloninger

Country Gardens —------------ Grainger
Minuet from L’Arlesienne ~------- Bizet
Flute Septet
Under the Cuban Flag ~---------- Sousa
Nutcracker Suite ~----.-- Tschaikowsky

(a) Dragonfly Dance
(b) Dance of the Reed Pipe Players
Hunting Chorus from Der Freischutz

Pilgrim’s Chorus from Lombardi--Verdi
Brass Quartet

Selection “Hall of Fame”

.--Arr. by Safranek
(Potpourri of familiar musical selections )
‘Cousitis oss eos coeees H. EL. Clarke

Cornet and Trombone Duet

Sleighride “Troika en ‘Trai

‘The Star Spangled Banner

The Lenoir High School band comes to
Davidson after making four records for
the Victor Recording Company Wednes-
day. This band is fully equipped and
presents a well-balanced program full of
variety.
in the band’s special truck with the fa-
miliar Lenoir seal on the side. Former

All band equipment is carried !

FUTURE OF ANNUAL
HANGS IN BALANCE
DECLARE OFFICIALS

Withdrawal Of Financial Support
Seriously Threatens Future Of
‘Quips And Cranks’

PHOTOGRAPHS NEEDED

Publications Board Issues Ulti-
matum Regarding Yearbook

At the time this article is written, the
fate both of this year’s annual, and next
year’s hangs in the balance! For on
Tuesday and Wednesday (and possibly
Thursday)—the days of the photog-
rapher’s last appearance on the campus—
the student body's response to the an-
nuals plea for more pictures is to de-
termine the financial success of the an-
nual now in the process of being made up,
and also the possibility of the continua-
tion of “Quips and Cranks” in the fyture.

Due to the fact that only approximate-
ly two hundred and forty individuals
presented themselves before the camera
during Mr, Dunbar, the photographer's,
three previous visits, a crisis was recently
precipitated in publication circles which
forced an immediate and drastic program
upon those connected therewith.

The Publications Board, composed of
representatives from the three publica-
tions, and Mr. Jackson, and Prof. Fleagle
issued dual decrees—one to the effect
that the present annual staff would not
be permitted to have the photographer
back again this year, and the other, that
it was strongly recommended that un-
less there were a satisfactory number of
pictures taken, the student-body would
not be allowed to publish “Quips and
Cranks” next year.

This surprising action was taken for
several reasons: One, that it has been
necessary in the past to continue to have
the photographer return to the campus
time after time until late spring, which
has resulted in considerably delaying ‘the
make-up of the annual and has materially
undermined its financial basis. ‘The sec-
ond, because the extreme dearth of pic-
tures—which has gotten worse this year
—prevents the annual from being suffi-
ciently representative of the student body,
and also removes a great portion of its

(Continued on Page 6, Col. 5)

J. L. Douglas To Return
To Math Classes Soon

Dr, J. L. Douglas, head of the Mathe-
matics department, has returned home
and is expected to resume his duties
within ten days or two weeks. The facts
of Dr. Douglas’ recent illness were un-
duly exaggerated in a recent edition of
The Davidsonian,,as his condition was
not so serious asywas reported.

During his illness his classes in mathe-
matics were divided between Professors
W. N. Mebane, W. W. Wood and W. B.
McGavock. Dr. Douglas has long been
a member of the Davidson faculty, hav-
ing taught the third longest of any pro-
fessor in the college.

members of the Lenoir band now belong-
ing to the Davidson band are Harris
Bradley, Richard Mattocks, and J. J.
Martin.

Biographer is another distinction that
Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of
Davidson college, may well add to his list
of honors, with the appearance of four
of his biographical sketches in the Dic-
tionary of American Biography.

The four sketches of Dr. William S.
Plumer, Dr. Richard C. Reed, Dr. David
Rice, and Dr. Nathan L. Rice, appeared
in Volume XV of the Dictionary, just
recently issued. The dictionary, edited
by Dumas Malone, is the outstanding
work of its type in this country, contain-
ing a widely varied collection of sketches,
from poets to presidents, and from Re-
vere to Ringling. No living people are
included.

Published in alphabetical order, the
dictionary‘ is now complete through the
R’s, Each sketch is written by an au-
thority, containing the salient facts of
the individual life and their interpreta-
tion,

Dr. Lingle’s writings all deal with
prominent Presbyterian preachers. Each
article, from 600 to 1000 words long, may
be identified by the familiar “W.L.L.” at
the end.

Besides those already published, Dr.
Lingle has written three other sketches

which have not yet been printed: of Drs.

Four Biographical Sketches
By Dr. Lingle Are Published

Smyth, Thomas, and Waddell. The pub-
lication date of volumes containing these
biographies has not yet been made known,
all of them having been written several
years ago.

When interviewed on the subject, Dr.
ingle stresses the fact that the work was
“very exacting and meticulous,” requiring
“real backing-up.” This he said re-
quired a “check and double check” of all
material.

However, he explained that he “was
glad for the necessity of writing” these
sketches. ‘‘An essential part of educa-
tion is to learn accuracy,” and “writing
makes an accurate man” he observed.

In conclusion, Dr. Lingle smilingly
suggested that “If a fellow wants a test
in accuracy, let him write an encyclo-
pédia article.”

Sources of information for these
sketches were found mainly in the His-
torical Foundation Library at Montreat,
the Presbyterian Library in Philadelphia,
and the Library of the Union Theologi-
cal Seminary in Richmond.

An idea of the thoroughness of the
search for material may be received from
the fact that one of the sources of a
sketch was a family scrapbook in the
hands of a Mr. Bryan in Titusville, Pa.
