THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 12,

1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

“1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” @

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

SPER: ONTOS TON oc es aa Managing Editor
HOWELL SOVERTON -coccu ce ccccuceceouccoe! Managing Editor
FIAROLO) SUGG “ouwuucdudulucsUsauauenaeual Managing Editor
DAY ACONDESRURNER? Sas ee ee ut aunire Ss nuel Managing Editor

OHNE VWINNGSHsciai ors saecruae rar ee Managing Editor
MARRY a KUYVRENDALU Suacus cuuucdeacebueuwun Sports Editor
MARTIN: OOARNETT auucuuacscevesnueceuual Associate Editor
HIARVEY © GUASS ccucclucLuCeeasuuuwanunu? Associate Editor

Paut HARLAN -. .-Associate Editor
Tom MARCHANT

JoHN WALKER

BUSINESS STAFF

Bouse sccusiosucssees Circulation Manager
.--Circulation Manager

CHARLES MAUZE
Bint Swope

BOSLVANGEDe occ cccnuscuanecasauunese Circulation Manager
HOKEGROBINSON boo. se esecu se soca Advertising Manager
Bing hibuecsssacsiminccucacaucasceeee Collection Mawager
Bitt -DaVERiE oc ccccck cco c lo Assistant Business Manager

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1935

Tron sharpeneth tron; so a man sharpeneth the coun-
tenance of his friends.—Prov. 27:17.

AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ....

Student Body of Davidson College,
Davidson, N. C.
Dear Boys :— é
Your kind expressions of sympathy are gratefully
acknowledged and deéply appreciated. Your thought-
fulness meant much to us during our recent sorrow.
We shall cherish among our memories Mack Wil-
son's many friends made during his short but happy
stay at Davidson College. He found great pleasure
in relating the interesting instances and pleasant
happenings there.
His brief life was true to the high ideals for which
he stood, and in his passing he has left us a deep
thought for constant meditation—“Live ready to
answer the last call without a moment's warning.”
Our home is open at all times to the Davidson
boys whom we will be glad to know.
Yours truly,

Gastonia, N. C.
Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Little
Miss Janice Little

PARAGRAPHICS....

Coach “Doc” Newton, genial Davidson mentor,
was reported as saying after the Davidson-Wake
Forest contest that he had never coached a team that
lost the final game of the season. We hope he never
does.

sek ok tok

Dormitory: feuds are apparently very contagious.
West and East acquired the germ from Georgia and
Watts, but it didn’t seem to become active until about
two o'clock Tuesday morning,

We can very readily see, now, why nations some-
times get into war with one another.

he ke 2k ok 2k 2

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian before
Christmas, so the staff takes this opportunity to
wish every reader the happiest possible yuletide
vacation, and to remind you that we will be back
with you on January 8th with the first edition of the
new year.

MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW
YRAR TO! YOU ALL,

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE ....

Time honored, along with many other old questions
on the Davidson campus, is the hope and possibility
of a place in the Southern Interscholastic Confer-
ence, composed of colleges from Maryland, North
Carolina; South Carolina and Virginia. This ques-
tion is again pertinent in the minds of many Wild-
cats as the annual meeting of this association is to
convene in Richmond, Va., Friday of this week.

Optimism seems to prevail as the time for verdict
draws near. Last year it was reported after the
meeting that Davidson had been accepted by the
members, but no invitations would be issued until
after this year’s session with the expectation that
some other school or schools might be accepted and
all would be admitted at the same time.

‘This very reliable announcement coupled with the
hope that Captain Norton (. Pritchett, who for
several years as athletic Director at Davidson made

son on the roll of the Southern Conference, and
will this winter, sitting as a member of the group
from the University of Virginia, exert considerable
influence for Davidson, gives sufficient backing for
the brightly hopeful attitudes of Davidson sup-
porters.

Many questions, however, will no doubt be raised
by both Davidson enthusiasts and the officials of
institutions now in the association.

Davidsonians will probably wonder what benefit
Davidson would derive from a place among the

Southern Conference group. The interrogation
could be very easily dismissed with the lone reply
that it would bean asset for prestige in the athletic
world. Too many years Davidson has had teams
that ranked right along with the best of any school
now in the SIC, but simply because they were unable
to make any claim of a title or have their name ap-
pear in the list of ratings she has gone unsung, except
in the immediate confines of the state.

Therefore, we say that admittance to the South-
ern Conference would bring to Davidson a recog-
nition of team and individual athletics that is de-
served and needed.

On the other hand, some association members
may inquire as to the grounds on which Davidson
feels qualified to take a place among the other teams
in the league.

To answer such an inquiry I would simply name
the schools that are now in the group and ask you
to compare their records over a period of, say, five
years, with those of Davidson for the same period.
I feel quite confident that Davidson would match
victory for victory and maybe come out a few ahead
in comparison with either, Virginia, V. M. I., W &
L, V. P. I., South Carolina, or N. C. State. She
wouldn’t drop so far below Clemson and Maryland,
and the University of North Carolina and Duke
couldn’t exactly be considered out of her class.

These Colleges may be a good bit larger than
Davidson, which many believe would put them in a
class above, but to any reasonable logic the con-
clusion should yield a desire for quality rather than
quantity. And I don’t have the slightest idea that
those member-schools could ever one time-question
successfully the quality of either Davidson’s teams
or the sportsmanship they display.

I believe that before another month has bade fare-
well to the calendar that Davidson will have been
issued a bid to join the Southern Interscholastic
Conference, and I am positive she can fill a place
justly and creditably.

PRESS FREEDOM ....

The Conference of College Editors, which met in
Now York the latter part of week before last,
closed its three days of hectic discussion with the
proposal of tentative plans for the formation of an
organization of collegiate editors who, united by a
common desire, will work relentlessly for freedom
of the collegiate press. Such an organization of stu-
dent editors has never been attempted before in this
country. Yet, in the light of the events of the past
months, its formation was inevitable.

The first suppression of collegiate publication that
brought forth storms of protest from other college

editors, particularly those in the Middle West, the

Big Ten editors, was the incident at Louisiana State
University when the editor and several other stu-
dents were removed by Senator Huey P. Long. This
coupled with the affair at the University of Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles awakened students generally to
the fact that college administrations DO work gross
injustices on their student bodies.

The aftermath of the Peace demonstration of last
April 12 reinforced this idea in the student mitd.
The behavior of President Ruthven of the University
of Michigan was deplored and heartily condemned
by editors in colleges all over the country. The
attitude of President Hutchins toward the disturb-
ance raised by Mr. Wahlgreen was a source of
great inspiration to the collegiate press which al-
ready had begun to feel a common interest drawing
its members together.

Scattered happenings of this fall, combined with
all that has gone before, moved thirteen of the
twenty-three editors present in New York to come
into closer union. The weekly news-release which
membership in the new organization carries with it
is only fixture; it is only one of the benefits of
belonging.

The main purpose toward which the group will
work is freedom of the press. A collegiate press
limited only by the laws of libel. A collegiate press
that is tactful, to be sure, but one that is unafraid
of administration rebuke.

Moral and editorial support from editors all over
the country when one editor is unjustly suppressed
or individual students are causelessly expelled will
lend strength to the movement. Student thought
on world-wide matters and affairs of national.inter-
est, both socially and economically, will expand. And
the idea current in administration circles that there
are matters—peace, the Olympics, race—that stu-
dents take no active part in and therefore should
have no interest, even editorially, it may become
a relic of the past.

The new..movement is not yet completely organi-
zed; its methods are not yet fully determined; its
power is not yet fully tried. But its objective is
firmly fixed ; its development is certain. And its suc-
cess, as measured by the determination and earnest-
ness of its founders, is without question.

earnest and fruitful efforts to get a place for David-

—The Agonistic

_j- slurpers.

DAVIDSON
OFF THE

na

df i <r
by HAROLD
SQUEAKS AND SLURPS
FROM RATS AND PURPS

Purging this review-charged atmos-
phere and brightening a peaceful campus
each year is this traditional upheaval,
powerful and partisan, when Watts
dormitory gets up enough courage to as-
sert equality with the aristocratic rats
of Georgia. As this is written the im-
mortal game is not writ in the record
but if when you are scanning the sheet
Watts dormitory has meritoriously
backed her claim, then sad columnist will
be wearing a freshman cap, along with
Harpo Harlan and -Carl Carlson, If,
however, Georgia has made good her
boasts and asserted her superiority, none
others than Cokey Branton, Flip Cathey
and Hoxie Thompson will similarly bow
in acknowledgment of the puerility in-
herent in Watts Dormitory. And ye cal-
umnist will be once more the proud cyn-
ical penster,

SHADES OF SELASSIE
This embroglio has all the ear-
marks of a baby war. Foolhardy
statesmen create the breach and
hotheaded and coldblooded jingo-
ists (we blush) stir up the passions
while the poor illusioned players
sally forth as cannon fodder:
cheese for the rats or tea for the
Why not extend this
thing? Let the twain of East meet
the twain of the West, and North
and South refight the Civil War.
And then we may quiver in ap-
prehension of the Herculean strug-
gle between Rumple and the Li-
brary.
CAMPUS PLUTO-PLUTOCRATS
Pross

SUGG

Numbers Seven and
Eight; Mal Grimes
and Prosser Morrow,
whose naive visages
(taken last year be-
fore they became pluto
plutocrats) you see
gaping at you. Grimes
is the financial backer
for Martin Barnett’s
annual remarks while
Mar

“Weakly”
Merrow stands behind
the Davidson Weakly.
They are both arch-

plutocrats and both
have made afflictions
with Kappa Sigma.
from past
plutocrats: Cokey and
Martin to fly
home Christmas.
Graft Zeppelins.

PET PREJUDICES “Annually”

Northern imitations of Southern
. . Never ending tap dances
on pianos, stairs and stuff. . . Im-
itations of trains. . . Hill-billy pro-
grams. . . People who sing with
Radios and vitaphones. . . Nonents
who can’t think without talking. . ;
Why can’t an advertiser think of
just having an orchestra play with-
out toastmaste There’s a cer-
tain cigarette that advertise as not
getting on one’s nerves. But how
that advertisement does. Sug-
gestion: That all athletes before
being declared eligible sign as to
their tooth paste, soap, cereal and
hair tonic.

INFO FO RTHE FROSH

Before going home for the holidays
as “Collich Boys” we deem it wise to
touch off the knowledge of the fresh-
man. So we have opened up this depart-
ment. Already we have received two
letters. “Dear Off the Record: The Phi
is Philanthropic but what do Eumenean
by Eumenean? Signed, Ollie Frosh.”
Dear Ollie: Another pun like that and
you'll be writing this column.” “Dear Off
the Record: “Why do they call the an-
nual Quips and Cranks?” Signed, “Joe
Fresh.” Dear Joe: Because it is composed
of students and professors.
DRIBBLE ‘
WE PREDICT: Joe Saunders for Mid-
Winters. Billy Mickley takes great in-
terest in the motion picture business.
Loyd Phooeystenberger won't talk, Sky
Cline, Charles Hamrick and Krupps
Krunchy Krispies Krisp gather at the
Limestone Terem. ‘Coot’ Gladden

Echoes

are

voices.

makes success at last. Max Brittain and

AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate Press
Correspondent)

Washington, D. ,C.—One of Harry
Hopkins’ brightest young men is 27-
year-old Dallas Dort, head of the Works
Progress Administration's newly  en-
larged Division of Investigation. Dort,
as division head, is charged with inves-
tigating all complaints made of misuse
of any part of the $4,800,000 work relief
fund. In the entire work set-up there is
probably no more involved and complex
job. The boss of the “W” men, however,
is enthusiastic about the work.

“It’s darned interesting,” he says.
“There’s something popping up every
minute.”

The things that “pop-up” range from
complaints of selling of jobs by officials
to relief people to direct misappropriation
of funds or misuse of WPA equipment.
Every complaint is investigated at first
hand by a “W” man sent out from some
one of the division’s 15 regional offices.
If the division thinks they have sufficient
evidence to convict the evidence is turned
over to ‘the Department of Justice, or
sometimes to local authorities for prose-
cution. *

In order to be considered eligible for
appointment as a “W” man an applicant
must be either a lawyer, a trained ac-
countant, or an engineer. If you're a
double or triple threat man, that is, if
you have either two, or all three kinds
of training, so much the better. Former
Secret Service men, or former G-men,
with the aforementioned requisites, are
especially eligible. The present staff had
a large number of former Secret Service
men and former special agents of the
Department of Justice on it. All in all,
more than 50 additional investigators
have been hired by Dort in the past two
months.

Dort,, himself, is by training a lawyer.

After taking his A.B. at Princeton in

1930, he entered Michigan to study law.
In 1933 he left Michigan, with an LL.B.
degree. At Princeton he was affiliated
with Phi Delta Phi, a legal fraternity.
For a short time he was in business
in California, managing a hotel. In the
fall of 1933 he came to Washington and
was hired by the FERA to help the

Compensation section work out plans to
make restitution to FERA workers in-
jured while employed on work relief
projects.

From that post he was transferred to
the job of keeping tabs on the adminis-
trative end of various statistical projects,
formed an important part of the white
collar section of the job-giving program.

About a year ago Dort began running
the FERA’s Division of Investigation.
At that time many of the component
parts of the FERA had their own indi-
vidual investigators, aside from their
regular field men who. checked on the
progress of the program, With the
launching of the WPA these units were
coordinated into the present division,
headed by Dort.

At 27, with a $4,000 yearly salary, and
the status of a WPA division chief
(which incidentally would call for a much
larger salary in almost any other New
Deal agency) Dallas Dort is just begin-
ning to go places. His youth, coupled
with a faint suggestion of shyness, gives
him an appealing and extremely likeable
personality.

That comparative oldster, Dr. Tugwell,
if he ever met Dort might well be imag-
ined,as saying, “Yessir, I was as youn
as that once.” .

* *

Random Note. . . somewhere in this
fair land of ours is a young G-man, pos-
sibly hot on the trail of a public enemy,
while unbeknownst to him another young
man, employed by the Government here,
is considering having a second G-man
put on the trail of the first one. For it
seems that the G-man, suddenly ordered
away to parts unknown, forgot to return
to the aforesaid young man, his former
roommate, seven dollars he borrowed
from him. Moreover, he also borrowed
the roommate's valise. The roommate
says the G-man did not behave with
criminal, intent, but merely in keeping
with the habits he observed in him when
they roomed together in college. He says
Jay Edgar Hoover ought either’to recall
the culprit, or send somebody out to
bring him in.

“Karpis can wait,” he said, in effect.
“I want my suitcase, and my seven dol-
lars!”

9
“Compare The NEWS

From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

The first of the series of Ott’s Lec-
tures for this year is given here by Dr.
H. E. Kirk. His theme for the series of
five talks is ‘“‘Man’s Place in Nature”. . .
Dean Rusk and Tom Hill are announced
as winners in Semi-Final competition for
Rhodes Scholarships. They will appear,
along with candidates from other colleges
in this district before the regional com-
mittee in Atlanta soon, where the four
men will be chosen to represent this dis-
trict at Oxford. . . Debating tryouts will
be held December 16. . . Rev. J. E. Mcp
Gregor of Lexington speaks at vespers.

. Y.M.C.A, Gift Fund for Barium
Springs gets underway. 4

TEN YEARS AGO

Dr. Edward Mack speaks at Phi Beta
Kappa initiation on Sacrificial Learning.
. . . Coach Monk Younger is chosen as
coach of Mythical All-State team by
Raleigh News and Observer. . . 81
Freshmen pledged by eleven fraternities
on the hill. There were 103 bids issued
to 90 freshmen. . . Glee Club gives con-
cert at Queens. . . Coach Younger starts
work with Basketball men after early
work under Hengeveld. . . 40 freshmen
report for Freshman Basketball. . . “Y”
vesper service next week feature music
by the Glee Club. . . Davidson college
broadcasts program over Station WBT.
... 21 receive football letters for work
this year. . . Robert Franklin, '23, wins
Rhodes scholarship. Lucien Wells
chosen as captain of 1926 football team.

TWENTY YEARS AGO
30 men win football letters. . . Sopho-
mores win class basketball series.
Freshmen elect J. W. McAllister class
president.

Hermann Best at the Myers Park. ADD
PP’s: The guy who hollars “Good Night
Everybody?” Tobie Conyers and John
Sadler: Hooded Men on the night of
a robbery. EVERY fraternity can be
bought and the Phi Delts have their
Price. Knorr is frozen out by the blond
blizzard.

In the interest of ‘a-waning Plu-
tocracy we might suggest that the
publication managers be given
something to Plutocrat upon. With
three publications barely struggling
to clear the red the poor would-
be Plutocrats are as futile as a
stinging editorial about the weath-

Collegiate Ramblings

WHAT, NO LISTERINE .. .?

Then, according to the REFLECTOR,
there is the Mississippi State collegian
who smokes “ends” (‘“‘ducks” to you) so
much that he smells like other people's
breath.

NOT TO BE READ...

“Censors: Please don’t print this unless
you are sure nothing will happen to your
beloved correspondent. Someone told me
that he knows someone who is well ac-
quainted with the person who knows
quite well the person who knows best a
certain freshman girl who came home
one night and asked her roommate,
‘Did you know John Doe is growing a
mustache. Boy! It sure tickles!’”

The Hastings Collegian.

ORTHOGRAPHY. . .

From the same source comes that clas-
sic of phonetic spelling. In case you
haven't heard it, we present: GHOUGH-
PTEIGHTTEAU. The gh stands for p
as in “hiccough,” the ough for o as in
“dough,” pt for t as in “pteridophyte,”
eigh for a as in “neigh,” tte for t as
in “cigarette,” eau for o as in “beau.”
Put them together and you have “potato.”
AND THE RELIEF...

From Washington and Lee comes the
“morning after” suggestion that NYA
men be put to work teaching dancing to
the freshman class. . . The same column-
ist warns his readers that “Esquire” fea-
tures the tie-em-yourself variety of eve-
ning tie, warns that the ready made
brands present a sad appearance.

A MATTER OF
INTERPRETATION. . .

At one of our eastern colleges re-
cently the professor was unable to stay

for class so he placed a sign on-his door

which read as follows:

MC OLes sore aaaeaes will be unable to
meet his class today.”

Some college lad seeing a chance to
display his sense of humor, after read-
ing the notice, erased the letter “C” from
in front of “classes.” The professor, no- '
ticing the laughter, wheeled around,
walked back, looked at the sign, looked
at the boy; he then calmly erased the “L”
in “lasses” and walked away.

—The Ring-Tum-Phi.

Doug Neal produces one about how
does a duck smell. The insipid answer is
not through his nose but foul. But Tyler.
Port tells us one about the man who
slipped upon a banana and hasn't banana
where since. No more columns until next
year. And are you happy?
