THE DAVIDSONIAN,

MARCH 13, .1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINT! ING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

K. D. WEEKS ..... 2 seseecees
J. A.C WADSWORTH ....

Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
SUUSLLOSS Sere aouae: Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
--Managing Editor
woeee Sports Editor
.-Exchange Editor
sage estes Editor

Martin BARNETT
Pavut Haran
Tom MARCHANT --

G. L. GULLETTE ---
BB MCPHAIt, cocccee ace
Bisl aOse Uacwesuaccscawd
Jack HELLINGER

BUSINESS STAFF

J.B, GOsLeN-..---2 2222-222" eee ne Asst, Business Mgr.
Vat CASSELS --- ---Asst. Business Mgr.
Tom Ross -.--- ---Asst, Business Mgr.
J. S. McMuten -- «--Asst. Business Mgr.

Riche MORROW coccses snsesc clon esane Asst. Business Mgr.

1935

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13,

Can there be a more horrible object in existence than
an eloquent man not speaking the truth?—Car.yLe.

NEGLECTED READING
DURING SPARE TIME

Tre paradoxi-
cal attitude toward a liberal education—This pomp-
ous and rather meaningless beginning simply means
that the majority of the students, who have signified
their desire to obtain a liberal education by enter-
ing college, have turned their backs on one of the
greatest mediums for obtaining such an education,
the reading of books.

It seems to be a generally recognized fact that
most college students go through their four years
course without doing any reading except that re-
quired, which is usually referred to as the irksome
parallel. In fact there are those who rather glorify

in this attitude, ridiculing those who read as pale
bespectacled scholars. ‘They would boast that they
have gone through or are going through college

with as little time as possible spent in boredom with
books.

Yet this attitude seems to be an absurd and sur-
prising thing when one reflects that their avowed
aim is to obtain a liberal education and absorb some-
thing of that fleeting thing called culture. It would
seem that such a person is vastly self-deceived in his
attitude or if not he is certainly in the wrong place.

To point out the benefits of reading seems to be
the problem of defining the obvious. It is merely the
task of attempting to turn eyes to the obvious. Books
parade the great minds of the ages to those who
would read. They add breadth and sympathy to
one’s outlook on life. They enable one to break
away from a petty stereotyped conversation to one
which will reflect its interesting source. In short,
without them a liberal education is impossible.

Some may. maintain that even though these bene-
fits are great a man who is in the busy run of life
in the modern college has no time for reading. It
may be granted that a college man has a great diver-
sity of activities that occupy his time, yet there is
usually time for what one wants to do. There is
time to “bull,” time to play, some time for classes
and studies, and time for activities of varied na-
tures, but no time for reading—so say those who
profess to be interested in a liberal education. There
is time for reading. A book picked up in odd mo-
ments adds color to those moments which would be
otherwise wasted,

Reading should be done not only for the de-

mands of a cultured society, nor for parallel for a

professor, but for the pure pleasure of reading. One
can pick up a book and be transported wherever his
fancy and the book lead. One who has never heard
the shouts of the Trojan heroes and the war cry of
the Valkyries nor lived with the great characters who
live only in books has missed something—that some-
thing whose presence ‘is so vital toa liberal educa-
tion.—J. W.

‘We must educate the intellect so the student will
be fitted to figure out things for himself! and meet
the changing conditions of this modern world,” says
Dr. William F. Pierce, president of Kenyon Col-
lege (Gambier, O.)

INACTIVE CLUBS
ON THE CAMPUS D

Z EAD at 30, buried
at 60.”

Probably the truth of this statement by Dr. Nichol-
as Murray Butler, who thus writes the epitaph of the
average man, may be doubted at times; possibly the
majority of us, in concurrence with its author, are
led to look upon such observations with greater re-
gard as we grow older, and as our powers of obser-
vation are enhanced.

But to even the most casual observer, it is appar-
ent that the epitaph by Dr. Butler may be fitly used
to describe the condition of some honorary organi-
zations on the campus. The fact stands out in bold
relief, a constant source of shame to members of
inactive organizations, and a resultant means of
pride to those of the better clubs and fraternities.

Honorary fraternities were organized for the two-
fold purpose of recognizing marked ability along cer-
tain lines, and of promoting fellowship among fac-
ulty and student body. Yet the status of many would
seem to indicate that their original objectives have
been entirely forgotten. Indeed a few have degener-
ated to the extent that membership means only the
placement of another phrase under one’s picture in
the annual.

On the other hand, the majority of honorary or-
ganizations have true merit. Meetings are held at
regular intervals ; constructive work is accomplished ;
the association of faculty-and students is increased.

Evidently some means should be taken to revive
dying honorary fraternities, or else their demise
should be hastened, and their burial speedily accom-
plished.—P. Y. H.

WHAT WILL BE THE
FUTURE OF S. P. U.?

One of the most
interesting developments in the student effort at self-
government this year has been the creation of the
Student Policies Union. This organization’ can easily
become one of the most valuable and influential of
student groups, it may degenerate into a mere politi-
cal alliance, or, as is most probable, it will die of old
age and neglect with the graduation of its present
leaders.

From time to time in the past Davidson has seen
other sporadic movements of similar nature. Most
of them died aborning. The rest, after a- year of
desultory, existence gave up the struggle in ignomin-
ious defeat on’ the failure of their initial efforts. If
one agrees that the social purpose expressed by these
organizations represents a preponderance of student
Opinion, one wonders at their lack of continuity.

Certainly, the lack of concerted effort and perse-
verance on the part of those interested has been in a
large measure responsible for the failure of such
movements. During those stormy meetings out of
which the Union grew, no definite provision was
made for its continuance. Ruled at first by a spirit
of boisterous, almost riotous, optimism, many of its
members have never fully realized the seriousness
of its purpose and the difficulty of its goal.

Such a body can and should have a very definite
place in our campus activities. Should its request
for campus dancing be granted, the Student Policies
Union should become a powerful factor in seeing
these dances properly conducted and in every way
possible offering its codperation to the Board of
Trustees.

However the usefulness of the Union need not
end here. It may espouse any one of a dozen other
worthy objectives, as: aiding the college adminis-
tration in a campaign for funds to build our greatly
needed social centre; sponsoring the construction of
the long dreamed of swimming pool; seeing that
freshman are properly instructed in Davidson tra-
ditions and the meaning of “that Wildcat spirit.”
There are many others.

The decision on dancing has been deferred until
the June meeting of the Board, when most of the
students whom it concerns will be scattered to their
homes. ‘ As matters now stand, an adverse decision
could meet with no organized protest, and it would
be September before the campaign could be renewed.

“In union there is strength” is platitudinous, but
true. Under the guidance of its present leaders the
Union is-in a position to effect a more permanent
organization. If its members feel their movement
is worthy of a future, they should act now to per-
petuate it.
is, in the words of another student publication, mere-
ly “an upstart organization,” or whether it is worthy
of its high ideals and aim, will depend on the action
of the next few weeks.—D. T.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

“Ninety per cent of last year’s graduates in en-
gineering at Washington University (St. Louis,
Mo.) have obtained jobs, a recent survey revealed.

During the last 28 years, retired faculty members
of Harvard University (Cambridge, Mass.) have
received more than $2,250,000 from the Carnegie
Foundation,

Tests made at two large American colleges tend
to prove that frogs-and turtles are deaf to the hu-
man voice.

Whether the Student Policies Union _

C'OMPASSING
the.
CAMPUS

By Scorry McLeop

Here we thought Junior Speaking
would be a big relief from ballot-sign-
ing, but here comes the news from the
third-class hop committee that we have
to vote if we go to the dances, No sur-
cease for the pen-pushers at Davidson.
It is not enough to vote, vote, vote in
chapel every day for six weeks. Now
we must take thought and cast our bal-
lot for the lady on the floor who shows
the most outward and striking semblance
of personal pulchritude. Not satisfied
with voting for presidents, their vices,
etc., the juniors make us vote for our
favorite girl. Whatta life!

One good thing. The good old stag
really gets his chance now. Undoubted-
ly the mated males will vote for their
own femmes and the balance of power
will fall to the unattached gentlemen
who cast. ballots. This calls for a bit
of bribery—let the stags snake on your
date and they will vote for her. If the
snaking is good, they may even vote
for her twice.

At least one Davidson boy has some
power with the ladies. A sophomore
from Winston-Salem put it over on the
rest of us and travelled with Mr. Black-
man to York where he and Little
Bit woke up a preacher to- say the rites.
She was a Little Bit Black and now
she’s a Little Bit Moore. She says they're
to live in Charlotte on Fifth Street, if
you're interested. At Home, after April
first.

Possibly the best dormitory in school
for a good bull session is the new Geor-
gia. Frequent indulgers are the great
Baron Harkins, who is going to Vir-
ginia next yeat; Paul (Rah Rah Goof)
Warren, candidate for 440 honors in
track; Budd Okey, champion after-din-
ner volcano; Wimpy (Hammer) Rave-
nel, who points a menacing finger when
his ire is aroused; Ben (Red Top) Rose,
nuf sed; Dan Griffin, of the Mississippi
Griffins, and Sugg and Dyer, Phi Gam
conversationalists deluxe.

Bob Vance and Charlie Mauze are
back in their old quarters again after
a temporary removal to number 0 Watts.
Zero Watts supplied all the modern
conveniences and was considered a very
good room but some of the second-floor
Watts boys objected to the obstruction
which was set up in the house-moving.
It seems that the furniture, radio, lamps,
beds, desks, suits, ties, and personal stuff
which occupied all but standing room
of Zero ‘Watts somewhat impeded the
usual and regular habits of the objectors.
Of course, it’s very cozy to have music
from a radio while you shave, but when
you find a necktie in your mouth after
brushing your teeth, it does cause a little
discomfort.’ And, Mauze and Vance
would have undoubtedly been greatly an-
noyed if they had continued to live in
the cannery. Think of the niglit-long
interruptions by pill-taking fellow stu-
dents, Phil Cook notably. Vance has
sold his stock in American Can,

Some enterprising student should have
set up a gate at the door of Zero Watts
while the two boys had their room
there. Four or twelve boys in school

didn’t get to visit it; they were out of

the state at the time. Gate receipts
would have been enough to build a good
swimming pool or a student store or
something. A social center, doncherno.

Dr. Miller, in vespers Sunday’ eve,
gaye a thoughtful talk in regard to stew-
ardship. He brought up a number of
points not so evident to the average
thinker. The trustees of our time, pos-
sessions, and lives, we are responsible
in the end and must account to Jehovah
for our stewardship. The well-known
parable of the stewards was read. One
of the best vesper services we've had
this year.

Lawson Greenham, a former profes-
sor at Queens University (Belfast, Ire-
land), claims he has perfected a ma-
chine with which he will be able to cre-
ate rain at will at a cost of from $20
to $50 per rainstorm.

The state legislature of Indiana’ is
considering a proposal to insure against
injury or disablement all football and
basketball- players participating in_regu-
larly scheduled g of Indiana schools,
colleges, and athletic associations.

Pennsylvania ‘has nine medical col-
leges, seven of which are in Philadel-
phia.

‘rr was NEWS...

99 From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Freshman baseball team announces
twelve-gime schedule . . . Forensic Coun-
.cil publishes debate program aerye. Uc
Queen and King lead “Duke” to 6-0
victory over “Carolina” in the
game of spring practice . . . Varsity golf
team, led by Captain Jack Pepper, de-
feats faculty team, 13 to5... Fifty
men to be sent to University of West
Virginia track meet, March 22... Jun-
ior Speaking announced for next week-
end... Student body elections sched-
uled for Friday . . . Five seniors are
elected to Phi Beta Kappa . . . Fresh-
man track stars show up well in annual
indoor meet in Carolina’s Tin Can.

TEN YEARS AGO
Student body entertained by songbirds
of Queens College . . . Coach Tilson ar-
ranges for state-wide high school track
meet to be held here March 21...
Manager Beall opens lists for annual

first}s—. .

spring tennis tournament . . . Davidson
smothers Hickory 48-0 in final game of
spring practice . . . Baseball team goes
into last stages of preparation for open-
ing game with Oak Ridge March 30
Horseshoe pitching takes campus
by storm ... Two debating teams picked
from twenty-two freshman aspirants . . .
Battalion makes splendid showing be-
fore government inspector . . . Freshman
class presents sweaters to varsity foot-
ball lettermen.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Basketball team closes mediocre sea-
son .. . Coach Hengeveld cuts baseball
squad to thirty men... . Charlotte High
defeats Belmont 47-17 in Davidson gym
to win state championship’. . . Watts
leads dormitories in Sunday School at-
tendance ... Miss Cornelia Shaw com-
pleting thirteenth year as librarian. . .
Battalion passes government inspection
with flying colors.

OUR
ontemporartes

By Eni Bowers

“Mr. Chips” Takes The Care

In an attempt to discover what Wash-
ington and Lee students in general read-
ing matter, the librarian has compiled
a list of statistics. In the fiction class
James Hilton’s “Goodbye Mr. Chips” re-
ceived first place in popularity. In gen-
eral reading the drama showed the heav-
jest circulation, with O’Neill’s “Days
Without End.” In the biography alcove
Josephson’s “The Robber Baron” seems
to have been removed the most. On the
rental shelf Alexander Woolcott’s “Lost
Horizon” and Miller's “Lamb in His Bos-
om” and Stark Young's “So Red the
Rose.” ,

Gedunking ?

Up at Brown University they recently
held an “intercollegiate doughnut eating
contest.” Press dispatches failed to state
whether dunking was allowed.

From Worse To Better

Seven former students at the Louisiana
State University, who were ousted be-
cause they wrote articles and editorials
in the college newspaper criticising Huey
Long, the Louisiana demi-god, have en-
rolled in the school of journalism at the
University of Missouri. They would
have been welcomed in any other good
school of journalism—my way of think-
ing.

Need A Course In Ed. 11

Perhaps Professor Einstein should
spend a little time studying Educational
Psychology. At Princeton, Einstein failed
to interest the students in his lectures on
Astronomy. The genius gave his lecture
to the elementary astronomy class and
the second class failed to report for the
lecture.

Rank Universities

Twelve colleges were listed by Edwin
Embree of the Julius Rosenwald fund as
the best in the nation.

They are in Mr.
Embree’s order: Harvard, Columbia,
Chicago, Yale, California, Minnesota,
Cornell, Michigan, Wisconsin, lowa,

Princton, and Johns Hopkins.

Faith In Signs

On the Northwestern campus is a sign
outside a church which reads,
know what Hell is?”
these words:
ganist.”

How Do You Stack Up?

According to researches this is how an
an average college man is classified physi-
cally: 68 inches tall, weighs 152 pounds,
can run the 100 in 12 3/5 seconds, can
broad jump 15 1/2 feet, swims 50 yards
in 27 seconds, can rescue.a drowning per-
son and swim 19 yards with him,’ if
aroused, he will give and take in the
manly art of self-defense, about which
he has only a limited knowledge.

An Eye For Business

An idea that would benefit several de-
serving Deacons at Wake Forest has
been recently suggested. That is to have
a post office’ for the college and the stu-
dents put in the new administration build-
ing. The box rent, at the same rate as
they are now paying, would pay tuition
for several self-help students.

“Do you
Underneath are
“Come and hear our or-

OTUDENTS TAKE
MILITARY EXAM

Cadet Captain and Adjutant James
Batte, Edward I. McConnell and Albert
E. Seifert went to Ft. McPherson, Ga.,
last week for the purpose of taking ex-
aminations for entrance into West Point
Military Academy.

Cadet Captain and Adjutant Batte hav-
ing received an alternate appointment
as a cadet at West Point Military Acad-
emy, was granted a complete. waiver on
all subjects pertaining to mental exam-
ination based upon his scholastic accom-
plishments at Davidson, but was re-
quired to take a complete physical ex-
amination,

Edward I. McConnell, of Gastonia, a
junior student last semester at Davidson,
was ordered to Fort McPherson, Ga,.
for the purpose of taking a competitive
examination among National Guardsmen
from several other states., He was one
of the two from North Carolina who
had_ previously uit for the exam-
ination.

Albert E. Seifert, a freshman at Da-
vidson last semester, received an ap-
pointment at large from the President
subject to a competitive examination to
be held at Fort’ McPherson the week
of March 5,

The results of these examifiations have”
not yet been received, as the papers have
to be sent to West Point for correction
and rating.

The Good Old Days

Some 50 years ago on Friday 13th, two
students at the University of South Caro-
lina had a misunderstanding in the mess
hall over a plate of fish, One student
reached for the plate before the other
had an opportunity to help himself. So
they challenged each other to a duel. As
a result, one of them was killed and
never got to touch the fish. The other
one was expelled from school. He re-
turned to his home and soon afterwards
committed suicide. The fish wasn’t worth
it after all. It’s a good thing that times
have changed for there would be several
students killed at each meal in the board-
ing houses.

Colleginia

It was rumored on the Oregon campus
that nudist colony pictures would be
shown in assembly, The entire student
body showed up ... and found all the
orchestra seats filled by members of the
faculty . . . Dartmouth College is the
ski capital of the world. There are
1,700 pairs of skis in the town of Han-
over in which the college is located...
No soft chambermusic was played’ at
the annual winter dinner of the Harvard
Fly Club, which the President attended.
Instead, the chimes of the Lowell House
carillon pealed out for the Chief Execu-
tive’s benefit . . . The girls enrolled at
the University of Edinburgh not only
have to pay their own car-fare when the
boy friends take them home, but have to

pay for: their own theatre tickets as
well.

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

e
Representatives

K. D. WEEKS

4

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING Co.

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOE WADSWORTH

