.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27,

1935

The Dabidsontan

Founded by the Class of 1916

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be In the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clogk p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONISBROWN. 6% is 5 es Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jim Morton Editor
Howent Ove Editor,
Harotp. Svc Editor

Editor
Feditor
Editor

DayMonn ‘TURNE

y WinN

Mas

IN cE te Editor
HARVEY GLAss » Editor
Pau,’ H Editor
Tom Mas : Editor
Joun Wat : Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
GHARLESEMAUZE “Soe cca cccachelucses Circulation Manager
Birt Swore Manager
BOBAVANCE eceuscenuucSuseucuuwelee Manager
Hoke Rosinson Manager
Birt Hitt ---Collection Manager
BIL DBYERLE Secesccecs loa set dssistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1935

Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an
idle soul shall suffer hunger—Prov. 19:15.

—

We extend sincerest sympathy to the family
and friends of Mack Little in this time of bereave-
ment, and also to Oren Moore, Jr., and those who

grieve with him in his misfortune.

PARAGRAPHICS....

Dr. Robert E. Speer, who comes to Davidson
Sunday to deliver the Ott’s Lectures, is probably
the most prominent figure to visit the Davidson
campus since l’resident Woodrow Wilson came
back about twenty-five years ago.

Tomorrow afternoon, at Wake Forest, the David-
son grid warriors will bring to a close what has
been a very successful season except for three de-
feats. One was inilicted by N. C. State, another by
Duke,

wonder about the advisability of keeping these

Carolina and a third by which makes us

teams on our schedule.

LEND YOUR CRITICISMS... .

When any new measure is introduced, criticism
is, and should be, expected; otherwise grave flaws
in such measures might be overlooked. In:the case
of the proposed amendment to the student body
constitution, criticism will be gratefully received by
the administration, in the hope that by means of
such criticism the measure may be improved and
made more acceptable.

First, let it be understood that the measure is
entirely a product of members of the student body.
The need for such a program has been apparent for
some time, and the student government considers
that it can do no greater service to the student body
in general than the maintenance of such dormitory
conditions as make for better living and studying
conditions.

Second, the program was not worked out in an
evening, but was the result of weeks of considera-
tion. It received full consideration and approval
of the student council before being submitted for
student body consideration. Thus, in no sense is
the measure being “railroaded” through.

Third, in regard to the section providing for
the appointment of representatives on each hall it
must be understood that these men are not mon-
itors or “watch-dogs”. It was thought that students
would feel freer to take their complaints to a man
on their hall whom they probably know, than to
bring the complaints direct to members of the stu-
dent council, with whom they might not be so well
acquainted. Quoting from the original statement of

the program, in regard to the hall representatives:
“He is not, himself, responsible for the conduct of
the men on his hall, but shall receive complaints
from men on his hall, and shall then report them
to the proper authority for investigation. In brief,
the purpose of establishing ‘such a representative
on each hall is to facilitate the reporting of conduct
which does not permit proper studying conditions
to be maintained.”

Finally, the present student administration wishes
above all to bring about a complete understanding
of the program. When this is accomplished, criti-
cism of the measure will no doubt assume a more
helpful and practical nature. Those who already
understand the measure, its purpose, mechanism,
ete., feel that it fills a definite and rather pressing
need,

Carleton B. Chapman

FORENSICS AT DAVIDSON ....

There was once a time on the Davidson campus
when ‘‘Junior Speaking” was no misnomer; when
debates and presentations of the dramatic club were
well attended, and the literary societies received
full support; when the medal awarded in the an-
nual declamation contest was a much-sought-after
prize. To alumni whose college days saw a mani-

‘festation of considerable interest in histrionic and
‘forensic activity, the attitude of indifference shown

by the present student body would probably be more
evident than to those of-this college generation.

But the fact is clearly realized when we consider
the small atudiencies that have turned out for the
dramatic productions. Each play give by the Red
and Black Masquers last year served only to put
that organization further in debt to the publishing
houses ; this, despite the fact that those who did
attend the plays considered their time and money
well spent. The only true interest shown by the
student body was on the occasion of a play given in
the late spring, when no admission was charged. The
applause of those present seemed: to indicate their
approval, but the amount gleaned by the free-will
offering afterwards clearly indicated that the audi-
ence was more liberal with its praise than its purse.
Yet the club has no other source of revenue than
that derived from sale of tickets.

Many hours are spent in preparation for each pro-
duction of the Masquerg-—not, only by the actors, |
director, property men and stage assistants, but also
by the faculty adviser.

The situation of.dramatics is somewhat paralled
by that 6£ debating—at least, in so far as attend-
ance at debates is concerned. The record of these
teams during the past few years has equalled, if
not surpassed, that of any other team representing
the college. In 1933, out of a total of twelve de-
bates, five were won by Davidson, five were non-
decision,.and only two were lost. The record of
1934 shows a total of fifteen debates, with six vic-
tories, six losses and three non-decision. Last year,
nine debates were won, three had no decision, and
only two resulted in losses.

The number of ‘men who compete for places on
the Davidson team compares favorably with that of
other institutions—even those of much larger size.
For example, at one of the universities in North
Carolina last year, only eleven men competed for
forensic honors, whereas at Davidson the contest-
ants numbered twenty-seven. Lut the interest of
the student body as a whole does not measure up to
the activity and record of a few, among whom is
the faculty director of debating, who has willingly
devoted much of his time to the coaching and regu-
lating of the teams.

The nature of Junior Speaking has so far devi-
ated from its original purpose that. last year mem-
bers of that class advocated a changé-of name. The
custom had its inception in 1896, when it was stipu-
lated that each:member of the class make a short
speech before the student body.

Student activity in literary societies has been on
the decline for a number of years; the interest
shown in the annual declamation contest has been
so negligible as to render that event almost non-
existent.

It is not the purpose of this editorial to imply
that each man in the student body should necessarily
emulate Demosthenes; a trip to Myrtle Beach,
where one could test his voice and diction against
the waves, with pebbles gathered from the Concord
toad in his mouth, would require more time than
three cuts would allow; but it does seem that some
means should be taken to foster more attention by
the students in forensic and histrionic activity. A
department of public speaking would not be amiss.

P, Y. Harlan;

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

The Male Choir adds so much to Sun-
day Vespers that it alone makes the new
Church system worth the change. The
blend and balance of the human voice
reach out and touch a more elusive in-
strument and transform Chambers from
the familiar stamping ground of assem-
blies into a hushed haven... On the
other hand we wonder how some hymns
are put together. They seem.to be a mere
jamming together of notes in a rhyth-
mical revelation of an absence of spir-
itual feeling.

Dunbar and Daniels

Quips and Cranks Photographer
Raleigh, N. C.

Dear Sirs:

Not being connoisseurs of the art or
cost of photography, but having only a
vague idea that since the cost of the
negative is covered in the Annual con-
tract and since a large number of frater-
nity group pictures should be sold, we
can only mildly protest (in true accord-
ance with Davidsonian policy) that fra-
ternity men are being unduly robbed in
paying 75 cents for a group picture.
Rather would we point to the fact that
in this very hammock of tradition it has
been the custom almost until the memory
of man runneth not to the contrary that
fraternity group pictures cost only 50c
per. i

And since this same protestation shall
not increase the burdens of Jim Farley,
nor be nailed to the church at Witten-
berg, we can only hope that the clamor
of the troubled, united in boycott, shall
cause you to recede from this rank de-
parture from tradition,

Yours for the pee-pul,
OFF THE RECORD.

And while letter writing is in vogue,
someone should compose a plea for the
relief of Lindsay and his boys, whose
Jackets fit as snugly as a freshman cap
after the first rain. Our hearts weep for
the Seniors and we hope that the Court
of Control will allow them to remove
the ungainly stigmas at least by March
Ist. We may laugh at sleeves that barely
round the—elbow and howl at tails that
predestine to be sat upon, but our merri-
ment turns to bitter tears as we behold
Ed. Wooten, “The Forgotten Man,” with
no buttons. From now hence, the motto
of Pres, Lindsay and his woe-be-gotten
Seniors is “What the Blazes do we care!”

News reaches us that half the Fresh-
man class flunked two or more subjecfs
with the last report. Harbinger of that
calamity was our discovery of one who
unwittingly drank the gravy when the
Boarding House was serving soup. And
last week we came upon one of our
dashing Peter Prep School boys with his
cap turned backwards and a brand new
pipe in his mouth, standing by one of
those fiendish pay-as-you-go telephones
We recognized him as one of Heinz '39
varieties of course but there was some-
thing frustrate on his puzzled brow, an
expression that indicated a wrong in his
young life, like a bewildered dog when
a slammed kitchen door has cut off the
ecstasy of beef steak fumes and warm
fires. So we came closer and encouraged
by our sympathetic interest, he said,
“Gosh, I’ve been putting in nickels and
turning that crank for 10 dern minutes
and the dern thing aint paid off yet.”

Social Iliads and Odysseys of the week
include a trip to Converse where Kappa
Alpha held a chapter meeting. Brother
Polk Moffett as a ride thumber was no
bum and had to content himself with the
wiles of Kings Mountain, and Bill Har-
ris was elected President of Limestone
College en route home. NCCW Sopho-
mores pulled a big one over the week-
énd, Noting Editor Brown’s absence we
surmise that Miss Hashagen is a Soph-
omore, Hank Loftin, Wiley Bradley,
Gordon Smith, Bill Yelverton and Mokey
Faison were in attendance, And Prosser
Morrow, J. C. Crowell, Billy Hill and
Billy Higgins made their debuts in Vir-
ginia. Among the shorter sojourns we
find Jim Hodgin, Billy Archer and Wal-
ter Dickson in Salisbury haunts, Tom
Cameron looking for the camels in
Camel City, and Leroy Martin and Alec
Bowles entertaining two girls and nine
chaperones at Flora MacDonald. In a
still shorter sojourn we might find Tred
Purnell, John Pearce and Bob Sours.

JETSAM—As modestly retiring as a
fraternity newspaper ... Defunct power-
houses: Sky Cline at Winthrop; Mich
Arrowsmith at Lowe’s and Campbells.
... Midge Verble, booster: Crazy Water
Crystals . . : New ODK men in lieu of
keys should celebrate Thanksgiving with
“ODK Keys Applied For” tags
Chief Big Tooth Armfield . . . Last week
it was nine sisters in Charlotte; further
backfire: another family of seven sisters

. Did Hoax Robinson really go to
the Square Dance Saturday?

| AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate Press
Correspondent)

Washington, D. C.—After several un-
happy months during which it took it on
the chin several times from organized la-
bor, made vain efforts to perform quickly
some of the wonders its excess of bally-
hoo led people to believe it would per-
form, and generally met reverses in
formulating plans, the National Youth
Administration is at last beginning to
see a reasonable amount of light ahead.
Its. progress is still painfully slow, but
there’s been enough progress made to
make it worth talking about. .

Figures compiled show that one phase
of the NYA program, its student aid
function, is operating nicely, with some
1602 colleges and universities providing
104,501 undergraduates with financial aid,
besides extending aid ot 4500 graduate
students in 177’ schools, This part df the
program continued by the NYA from
the similar program of the FERA’s
Emergency Education Division, surpasses
from the standpoint of students aided the
similar work done a year ago by the di-
vision.

The general impression that the NYA
program is mainly for young males is
erroneous, especially in connection with
student aid. Better than 50 per cent of
the students receiving such aid are young
women.

The other sections of the program are
not faring anywhere near as well as stu-
dent aid. The huge nationwide project
approved by the NYA to provide jobs
for 200,000 young people at a cost of
$22,000,000, is still and has been for
some time on the desk of Comptroller-
General McCarl.

Opinion at NYA headquarters is that
it will be released by McCarl very short-
ly, but no one knows just what that
means. When put into operation the
project will employ 94,000 young people
on local projects in public service capac-
ities, 55,000 as “Pécreational leaders in
urban centers, 20,000 leaders for rural
areas, 4,000 on public records, and an-
other 15,000 will be given work as as-
sistants in traffic checks, parole, and de-
linquency, sanitation, health and welfare

activities, leaving 10,000 for miscella-
neous jobs. WPA wages will be paid on
all the local units of this nation-wide
project. It is thought that about 40 per
cent of the jobs planned will be suitable
for young women,

Karly hopes for an apprentice program
whereby employers could be induced to
take on young men and women and train
them for skilled jobs, dashed by the op-
position of organized labor, are coming
to life again. In various sections of the
country labor, having gotten over its first
fear of the unknown in the NYA’s ap-
prentice plans, is withdrawing its oppo-
sition. Slowly the number ‘of apprentices
taken on by employers through NYA
aid is mounting, while labor watches
carefully to see how it works out.

Probably one reason labor is now less
suspicious of the NYA is because of the
stand of NYA officials have taken against
exploitation of young men and women by
employers secking to depress wages. Of-
ficials know of many cases in which em-
ployers offered work to young jobseekers
at a miserable wage, which the jobseek-
ers were willing to accept. In such cases
NYA placement people have strongly ad-
vised their young clients against giving
impetus to future exploitation by accept-
ing such wages.

Working with limited funds, some
$50,000,000 with which it is hoped to give
work, student aid, or educational facili-
ties to three million youths on relief plus
other youhg people not on relief, the
NYA of necessity has had to. remain a
paper organization using available’ facil-
ities wherever possible, “wangling” things
by hook or by crook. Many of its weak-
nesses are directly traceable to lack of
funds. Others arise from the fact that
it is no mean task to find means whereby
millions of young people can be given
decent economic status in society when
millions of their elders, many with su-
perior training and skill, are unemployed.
Aubrey Williams, NYA chief, states his
position’ with admirable candor when he
says forcefully:

“As to private industry. We cannot
hope to inject hundreds of thousands of
new workers into: an industrial machine
which is still spewing out experienced
workers,”

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

GEORGIA TECH

Over 200,000 are expected to hear
President Roosevelt at the Georgia School
of Technology annual Home-coming
week-end. In honor of the unusual impor-
tance of the occasion, the Board of Re-
gents has granted to Georgia Tech two
holidays in addition the regular
Thanksgiving holiday. Friday, November
29, the day of the President’s speech, and
Saturday, November 30, the date of the
Tech-Georgia football game, have been
set aside as special days on which no
classes will be held. Phil Harris and his
Orchestra, with Leah Ray as soloist, will
furnish music for dances sponsored by
the Anak Society. The Homecoming edi-
tion of The Technique, Georgia Tech
weekly newspaper, consisted of twelve
pages in celebration of the event. ‘Special
bleachers are being constructed to ac-
commodate the crowd coming to hear
President Roosevelt speak.

to

DAD'S DAY

Approximately 500 dads of Mississippi
State students will visit the campus this
week-end for the Fifteenth Annual Dad's
Day celebration. Classes will be discon-
tinued in celebration of this occasion, The
program will consist of a freshman pa-
jama, parade, Mississippi State College-
Sewanee football game and Dads Day
Dance.

RAMESES Ill

In an attempt, just before the recent
North Carolina-N. C. State football game,
to steal the Chapel Hill boys, mascot, the
ram Rameses III, the State students
came out slightly the worse for wear. Af-
ter resarting to what the university paper
describes as “R.O,T.C, maneuvers,” they
located the farm on which the ram was
kept. But the students received a rather
unpleasant reception upon arrival from
a large black bull, After much difficulty,
they chased their quarry down and made
off—only to ‘discover later that they had
stolen an ewe. Rameses remained the
property of the N. C. University students.

STUDENT’S ‘‘WHO’S WHO”

Three students were selected by the
Presbyterian College (Clinton, S. C.)
faculty to be entered in the national
“Who's Who Among Students in Ameri-
can Universities and Colleges.” ‘The com-
mittee that is compiling this book de-
veloped the plan of an annual Who's
Who for the college students two years
ago and published the first volume last
year. No school can nominate more than
one per cent of its total enrollment. The

qualities upon which students are nomi-
nated are character, scholarship, leader-—
ship in high standard of politics, athletics
and other forms of extra-curricular ac-
tivities.

LICENSE PLATES

Olive and blue, Tulane university col-
ors willsbe the colors of the 1936 auto
license plates in’ Louisiana, Plates for
1935 are purple and gold, L. S. U. col-
ors, in honor of the seventy-fifth anni-
versary of the University. The late Sen-
ator Huey P. Long suggested the use of
Tulane colors for next: year as well as

the L. S. U. colors for 1935.

COLLEGIANA

American brides and bridegrooms are
getting younger. Men are marrying at
an average age of 24.8 and women at
21.7. We don’t know what this proves.
Yes, and statistics show that Vassar
graduates have an average of three-
quarters of a baby each. . . From 1906-
1910, football fields were marked like
checkerboards into five foot squares.

Probably the most unique scholarship
in America is one offered by Hamilton
College. Worth $500 itis open to men
in America by the name of Leavenworth.

Best known trick play in history
was pulled by the Carlisle Indians in
1903, Pop Warner coaching. The ball was
carried 105 through MHarvard’s line
tucked under a player's jersey.

A prize of $25 will be awarded to a
Carolina student who has collected the
best library during the year .. . Approx-
imately 30 dances will have taken place
on the North Carolina campus by the end
of the Thanksgiving holidays.

Following our valuable custom of mak-
ing known all the newest philosophies of
education we introduce to you the latest
course of study at the University of
Wyoming (Laramie). It is a course in
dude ranching. You study bookkeeping,
botany, journalism, food purchasing, con-
tract laws and speech making.

What! Nothing about how to appeal
to the instinct of romance in beautiful,
rich, eastern girls?

Nothing about how to roll a cigaret
with one hand, at full gallop?

My goodness, it looks like a|course of
work!

Three universities in Chicago are spon-
soring a university of the air to be broad-
cast over five local stations. An extensive
four-year course is being planned for this
novel university.
