THE DAVIDSONIAN

» OCTOBER 23, 1935

The Mabidsontan

Founded by the Class of 1916

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Disest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

' SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN ........ « » Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. . . . . . Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jim Morton .-.- Managing Editor
HIOWELL OVERTON: udacccccecassel os lesa! Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGO sisubculadsvesdcadacceusaul Managing Editor
DAY MOND “DURNER-sculiss oh ceeusccuccel Managing Editor
JOHN? WANN: weauveeecei sc acl eco acl Managing Editor
Harry KuyKENDALL - .-Sports Editor
MARTIN ABARNE TT a8 (bec ccccceueecee sacs? Associate Editor
HIARVEV i GUASS osvcwedeedvsouc lUscoue cue Associate Editor
PAUIPRULARUAN cocccuNucas oneal opsce Associate Editor
MOM: MARCHAND ccccllcccscycc esc cela, Associate Editor

JoHN WALKER ..--- Associate Editor

fi.

BUSINESS STAFF

GHAREES-MAUZR-os< oc oosseccccccace Circulation Manager
BILGEO\WORE coe cuccscedss oe ocucecG Circulation Manager
SOB VANCE an cccuccoulusccidccceccng¢ Circulation Manager
HOKE ROBINSON: ocd cacecnacawacaueae 4dvertising Manager.
Bini rittieesuas -------Collection Manager

SIU DOVERUE, cecsunhuowecnsc ace dssistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1935

Withold not good from them to whom it is due,
when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.—

IP tony, GZ,

PARAGRAPHICS....

Davidson students will have an unusual privilege
next Monday when Bohumir Kryl and his band play
in the Chambers. auditorium. This-is reputedly t
best band in the world now that Sou. has passe
out of the picture.

* MMe se

Thanks, sports editor of The Daily Tar Heel, that
was a swell write-up
account of last S<

you gave Davidson in your

y’s game. \Ve admire your
sportsmanship, and appreciate the credit you gave
our Wildcats, whom we think played a wonderful
game of football

« k « *

Davidson’s cheering at football games is improv-
ing all along. Leader Joe Dees has done an excellent
job with the new men, and the way his Junior as-
sistants have their fancy maneuvers so perfectly
timed makes one wonder if there isn’t some invisible
cord connecting the hands and arms of these four
white-sweatered lads.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE HOPES....

Within a few months, Southern Conference off-
cials will again be confronted with the problem of
admitting additional members to its ranks.

At a meeting held last year, the athletic directors
of the ten institutions now included in the confer-
ence, voted to limit its membership to a total of
sixteen major teams throughout the South, and to
defer definite action on any particular school until
this season.

Although no place in the league was promised by
the association, six institutions were named as the
first to be considered for admittance. They are: ‘The
University of Richmond, William and Mary, The
Citadel, Furman, Wake Forest, and Davidson.

Naturally all of these applicants cannot be admit-
ted but every indication points to the acceptance of
two or three by the committee, which is expected to
meet in the latter part of December or early Janu-
ary.

We, of course, are very much interested in Da-
vidson’s prospects and it seems, from the records of
the six applicants, that Davidson, Furman, and Wil-
liam and Mary, are the most likely candidates to
be accorded such membership.

3y surveying the facts of the past few years, we
can show that Davidson has met more Southern
Conference teams than any other non-conference
school. Hardly a season passes by in any sport, in
which Davidson does not defeat or hold its own
with some member of Conference group.

So far during our present football season, the ’cats
have defeated one member of the conference, tied

another, and held the two reputed “giants” of the
conference to very low scores.

If Davidson can defeat members of the Southern
Conference, if it can hold the members of this group
to low margins as it has done, if it can meet such
teams as Army and Navy, then it certainly shold
be accorded the privilege of membership in the
present Southern Conference.

H. L. K.

ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS ....

There was sent into The Davidsonian office last
week by Mr. J. R. Morton, graduate of Davidson
in the class of 1917, a very interesting and informa-
tive article taken from the June issue of Civil En-
gineering. The article was written by Mr. W. L.
Turner, Jr., of Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and it
contains some very enlightening and encouraging
facts for undergraduate students. The title of Mr.
Turner’s story “Extracurricula Activities and
Business Success,” from which the following para-
graphs are taken:

is

“Recently the business and professional world has
begun to realize the value of outside activities for
college students as a factor in the training of its
future employees. In 1925, the American Telephone
and Telegraph Comyany made a survey of the grad-
utes in its service, The collegiate activities of 2,100
men were studied and the men were classified into
three groups. Group A, consisting of 21 per cent of
the total, was composed of men who had made sub-
stantial contributions to campus activities. Group B,
representing 38 per cent, was made up of men who
had some achievement to their credit, and group C,
approximately 41 per cent, consisted of those who
had taken ngpart whatever in extracurricula activi-
ties. !

“The salaries of each group were averaged over a

period of years, arid the averages were compared
with the medium salary of the whole. Group A
showed a steady climb from the beginning, and at the
end of 25 years was earning 21 per cent more than
the average salary of the entire group. Group B
showed a decline for the first five years, nochange
for the next tive, and a steady gain for the last fif-
teen years. .\t the end of the period, members of
group b were earning 10 per cent more than the gen-
eral average. Those in Group C were found to have
suffered salary cuts during the entire period and at
the end of it were earning’ only 90 per cent of the
average salary.
Metter discovering that extracurricula activities
art responsible for the success of their em-
sie WEmpan¥ sougtit to dise
relation’ een the field of activity of each student
‘and his succéss in business. Five fields of endeavor
were chosen, and the men in Groups A and B were
compared on the basis of their achievements in these
fields.:The types of activity chosen were respectively
editorial and forensic, musical and dramatic, social,
managerial, and athletic. It was found that the Group
A Men in the editorial and forensic field and in the
manageria! field had had the greatest success, 80 per
cent of their number earning salaries above the aver-
age for the group. Success of men in the social, ath-
letic, and musical and dramatic fields followed in the
order given.

oe

“In comparing Groups A and B in these various
fields of endeavor, it was found that among those
who had substantial achievements to their credit at
college there were about 10 per cent more men earn-
ing salaries above the average in Group A than in
Group B, with the exception of those in the field of
athletics. Here it was found that although athletic
activity is a decided asset, it apparently makes little
difference whether a man is on a major team or is
merely on the squad. The musical and dramatic field
was found to be least favorable, but even here at
least 50 per cent of the men were earning salaries
above the average.

“An investigation made recently by a large mid-
western university has brought out facts very sim-
ilar to the findings of the telephone company. This
college compiled a list of all its alumni listed in
‘Who's Who In America,’ certainly its most success-
ful graduates. Their campus activities were classified
under the heads of journalism, student government,
‘athletics, and musical and dramatic. The greatest
number of the men were found to have been inter-
ested in journalism, camparing with the editorial and
forensic group of the telephone company’s investi-
gation. The student government executives were
next, comparing with the managerial group of the
previously mentioned inquiry. Athletics and musical
and dramatic activities followed. Social activities
were not studied, as nearly 100 per cent of the alum-
ni listed were members of fraternities or similar or-
ganizations.

“These two investigations—one conducted among
graduates of colleges and universities throughout the
country and the other among the very successful
graduates of a particular institution—show that ex-
tracurricula activities appear to be an aid to business
success, and that the type of activity excelled in at
college is to some extent an indication of the business
success a student may expect.”

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG .

ILL WINDS THAT
BLOW NO GOOD

Aside from the fighting football game
We saw Saturday it was a quiet week-
end, quite consistent with what Fitz
Dade calls “our bucolic Utopia,” and the
prevailing note was of harmonious bull-
ing in fraterniyt lodges, dormitories, and
such a den of vice as the Student Store.
Mr. Stough provided us with “Dressed
to Thrill,” a strangely incongruous title,
and the potential excitement scheduled
Saturday nite flopped when the yapping
lads of Charlotte High failed to reassert
their belligerency.

BOWING BEFORE BALLYHOO

True newspaper justice to the fight-
ing Wildcats, who held the powerful
Carolina team that scored 38 points
against Tennessee and 33 against Mary-
land, was possibly sacrificed for the sake
of Ballyhooing NCU into the Rose Bowl.
While we would delight in seeing our
friendly rival picked for the honor’ we
lament the fact that neighboring news-
papers muffled the praise due the ‘Cats.
At least, that is how most of the Student
Body felt after reading the Sunday morn-
ing writeups.

SOUNDS THAT LINGER

Significant of the happy melancholy in
which we live: The clink of horse-shoes
outside a classroom at 3:05 P. M. .
The blend of radio music that floats
across the quadrangle while you are
trudging to your Saturday afternoon
classe A radio~breaking the=striiness-of
2 A.M... Two students discussing ac-
counting results between dormitories . . .
dubious harmony from Georgia shower
rooms. . . Sunday Symphony programs.
... “Accent on Youth,” by Jan Garber,
heard across fraternity court.

THE GEORGIA BALD CLUB

Many occupants of the palatial [otel
are frightened at night with the Hob-
goblin of Baldness. Nightly .they gather
and bewail the imminent loss of hair.
Domo Patterson, Deacon Bob J>hnson
(formerly Colonel Bob), Bill Snow and
: a collection
festorative processes. Hairpo Hairian,
probably suffering from too much Mary
3ald-win, is equally perturbed over the
present absence of this flexible outgrowth
of the epidermis. Ye calumnist belongs in
the ranks of the tremulous and his bald
spot enlarges with every column. John
“Butch” Abernathy went on a bragging
spree last week and shaved; he scraped
the same side twice and didn't know the
difference, and when he applied the after-
shaving lotion the poor fellow took a
whiff and passed out.

SOCIAL SOJOURNS

A goodly proportion of the boys went
over to the Queens’ party Friday and
scrambled for all available corners. The
scarcity of corners led to a tremendous
influx into the House of Horrors. Those
gaining egress were met by “Evil-Eye,
who may or may not have strayed there-
from. Walter Dickson was the genial
toastmaster and Jack Branch and Dennis
Myers were troubled by Diogenes with
his lantern. Whether or not he was look-
ing for an honest man the gentle reader
is free to conjecture. Kappa Alpha, Phi
Delt and Kappa Sig pins were noted in
profusion and the SPE’s were on hand
en masse,

”

CAMPUS PLUTOCRATS
TWO AND THREE

“Prosperity is returning,” echo Stu-
dent Store Managers Henry Cathey and
Dan Griffin as they prophecy a swimming
pool for the next Centennial Class in
2037 A. D, These two Davidson Nabobs,
strangely enough, have no trouble sleep-
ing and feel no pangs of remorse, “In-
deed, we are losing money,” lamented
Griffin. “Sure we are,” said Cathey,

The Pi Kappa Phi’s stayed home Sat-
urday and at their party enjoyed a mod-
ern and somewhat anachronistic dramatic
representation of “Cleopatra,” in which
\ntony, Cleo, Nero and Mae West were
chief characters, From. this resplendent
anthology of Pi Kappa Phi humor we
pick the “Bowtie Song.” You may call it
madness Bowtie call it love.

RAMIFICATION

As aristocratic as a mule. Loch Vass
is an authority on Birds; does research
work at Mary Baldwin. Conquering Con-
cord: Midget Verble, Fred Dennis,
Teeny Lafferty, Lynwood Mann and Mor-
rison King. R. B. S&W Stewart is Nelly
Crazy if not completely.

AROUND WASHINGTON

Mr. Serwer, the regular Washington
correspondent of The Davidsonian and
the Associated Collegiate Press, is on
his vacation this week. In his column to-
day he deserts the Washington scene and
gives you his impressions of Key West,
his ideas about the founding of a co-
educational college, and a little bit of
ballyhoo that must have come from a
Chamber of Commerce secretary —Edi-
tor.

By ARNOLD SERWER
Associated Collegiate Press Correspond-
ent

Key West, Fla—If anyone wants to
found a college for women I suggest
starting it here in Key West. I know of
no more ideal place, winter or summer,
for the pursuit of learning in beautiful
surroundings. At the risk of sounding
like a spokesman for the local chamber
of commerce I am going to explain why
the place is so unusual, and Mr. Heming-
way, who has had this place to himself
for..so long, can bite his nails all he
wants to at the spectacle of an outsider
egging on other outsiders to come down
and overrun the place.

The climate is practically perfect, Once

in a while, in January or February, Key
West has a really cold snap. The mercury
drives way down to 49 degrees above
zero. In the summer it never gets above
91 or 92. Built on the largest of Florida’s
Keys it is lapped on one side by the At-
lantic Ocean and ori the other by the
Gulf of Mexico. People living in ¢the
middle of the city, daily have to make
up their minds whether they'd rather
swim in the Gulf or in the Atlantic
Ocean. They're only about a half mile
apart. Key West has a distinct flavor
all its own. It scarcely seems like an
American city. Half of its 12,000 people
are Cuban and Spanish, the remainder
are native whites and negroes. The
whites, known as_conks, are hard bitten
people, clannish to the nth degree. Hos-
pitable on the surface, underneath they
are extremely suspicious of
An outsider is anyone who came to Key
West in the last 20 years. Walk down
Duval street and you can hear Key West
Spanish, an impure version of the mother
tongue, being spoken as readily by the
conks as by the Cubans,
It is a perfect spot for writers and
artists. There is color everywhere. In
the startlingly green sea, in the tall co-
conut palms, in the multi-colored boats
in the harbor, in the white beaches. The
grey and white houses, all
seemingly leaning slightly to one side or
the other, invite the etcher to try his
hand.

\t night the main street, Duval, comes
violently to life. Scores of people, young
and old, lean against the shop windows
and watch the passersby. The street is
lined with bicycles parked against the
curb, Everybody rides them here. Whole
families downtown on them to-
gether, the head of the family pedaling
a bicycle with a basket attached to the
handlebars, if the purpose of the trip
happens to be shopping. People shout and
halloo to each other, Little coffee colored
Cuban children back and forth
across the street on urgent business of
their own.

At this particular time Key West's
commerce with the outside world has suf-
fered a severe temporary stoppage. The
hurricane of a month ago, striking 60

outsiders.

oL

scores

come

scoot

fills between several of the keys, and
destroyed several bridges, along with the
Florida East Coast Railway. As a result
Key West depends on one boat and
about four planes a week for mail and
some of its supplies. But beginning No-

vember! 1 ferry service is slated to be
resumed, and within the next few months
the highway will be rebuilt. At the pres-
ent time the FERA and the state high-
way department are jointly putting in a
temporary road.

Key West itself has not had a hurri-
cane in which life was lost, in 40 years.
A week ago when one threatened, Key
West got ready. Windows were boarded
over, doors nailed, boats fastened to
hurricane moorings. The hurricane
passed within 40 miles of the city. It is
the wave following hurricanes that is to
be feared, not the wind itself. The posi-
tion of Key West, and the type of harbor
it has, provides ready outlet: for hurri-
cane waves. If the water has enough
avenues of escape it cannot bank up, and
it is the banking up that smashes things
and takes lives.

The local FERA, now WPA, has done
wonders for the city. Two years ago Key
West, with its shipping and cigar fac-
tories gone and its sponge industry de-
stroyed, was flat on its back looking up
at the cold stars. Seventy-five per cent
of the town was on relief. It had two
choices. It might die slowly, as people
evacuated Key West, or it might build
up some source-of revenue by playing up
some strong point. The FERA suggested
making the town a tourist center, play-
ing up the climate, the fishing, sports
and amusements. The FERA has done
just that thing. It has cleaned the streets,
demolished houses that were fire haz-
ards, improved the “water supply, built
an aquarium, improved the city’s golf
course, run an art project that is becom-
ing national! famous for producing
etchings and water colors of Key West
scenes, and persistently it has advertised
Key West. Last winter the city had more
visitors than it had in years. Now the
WPA is about to construct an artificial
atoll in Florida Bay, to serve as a swim-
ming pool, complete a botanical garden
that will have exotic plants never grown
in this country before, and put out a
guidebook for national distribution. The
city fathers are beginning to see very
decided rays of hope.

Local enterprise is returning. People
are opening new night clubs and res-
taurants to handle the business that is
expected to come this winter when the
tourists come down to Key West. This
town has its Habana Madrid Club, its
Raul’s, its own Sloppy Joe’s. In Sloppy
Joe’s you can find seamen off the coast-
wise tramps, getting pickled to the eye-
brows, and vowing that they don’t zive
a damn what time their boat sails, they’re
staying right where they are, yessir!

Yes, if someone else doesn’t do it I’m
going to found a college for women
here, possibly a co-educational university,
with courses in barracuda and tarpon
fishing, sponge diving and coral collect-
ing, tennis and bicycling, and post-grad-
uate work in drinking of Fondador, the
stuff. Hemingway always talks about in
connection with Key West. We'll holc
Commencement Exercises in shorts and
polo shirts on Boca Chica Key. If we
feel that the school needs a traditional
rival, there’s always the University of
Havana, 90 miles away. For a_ school
color I suggest something the color of
the hibiscus that blooms so beautifully
here, and of course it’s unthinkable that
the students should call themselves by
any other name than “Conks.” “Conks

miles north of here, wiped out highway#Versus Tarheels.” “Conks versus Go-

phers.” “Conks versus ’Gators.” It sounds
pretty good.

If it’s a co-educational university I
wonder if it! would be proper for me to
be coach of the football team and Dean

of Women at the same time?

“Compare The News”

From DAVIDSONIANS
e e e of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wofford Frosh beat Wildkittens 6-0. . .
Mr. Harry Rimmer speaks at Sunday
vesper service. . . Davidson defeats Cita-
del 6-0. . . Home-coming to be held this

week. . . Glee Club sponsors annual stunt
night. . . Seniors hold smoker in Cham-
bers... W. P. Cumming writes The Wild

Grizzlies of Alaska in collaboration with
J M. Halzworth. .. Dr. C. M. Richards
to speak at homecoming. Wildcats
meet V. P. I. Saturday. . . Recent publi-
cation shows Davidson was first team in
South to use pass... Intra-fraternity
football gets under way.
TEN YEARS AGO

This issue dedicated to Freshmen. . .
Printed in green ink. . . Wildcats defeat
Presbyterian College 13-0; Amend-
ment tg,,constitution allowing accusor or
accused to appeal his case ‘before Student
Body proposed .. . Dr. Roy Baker vis-
its Davidson to get data for Wilson
biography. . . Presbyterian Frosh defeat
Wildkittens. . . Home-coming day set for
State game. .. Dr. C. F Meyers to lead
Y. M. C. A. revival. . . Cross country
teams begins workout. . . Library board
to order new books.
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Wildcats trim Wake Forest 27 to 7.

. . . Cox-Roosevelt Club established. . .
C. K. Brown elected president. Its
purpose is to raise money for Roosevelt's
campaign. . . Dr. Weatherford of Nash-
ville, Tenn., opens Y. My C. A. revival.
... Tennis players prepare to meet Caro-
lina. . . Scrubs play N. C. State Fresh-
men, Noy. 18th. . . Wildcats meet Rich-
mond University Saturday. T. W.
Lingle addresses Polit Club. Plans
made to run beauty section in Quips and
Cranks. . . Each boy is allowed to have
his girl's picture in annual. . . “Jamie”
Foule addresses Ministerial Band.
Mis. E. J. Erwin entertains with a family
dinner party in honor of Professor Er-
win's birthday. . . Dr. Hood speaks at
Rock Hill.

HELPS PREVENT
t MANY COLDS

Especially designed
aid for nose and
upper throat, where
most colds start.

i Regular Size....30¢
Double Quantity 50¢

‘VICKS VATRO-NOL

