THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1,

1935

The Dabidsonian

‘Founded by the Class of 1915

MEMBER

ciated Goll
Mesocinted teeth

WASCONSI
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are wi but all
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT Brown
R. P. Morrow

EDITORIAL STAFF
JIMM MORTON colccatuascaucusesseuouaved Managing Editor
HOWRLY OVERTON 522 conc occ cscs seco. Managing Editor
HAROLD SUGG } i uiccccuccascosuweccuncuée Managing Editor
DAYMOND TURNER ....-.....------.-.-.- Managing Editor
VORNE WANN ccdabcdsnucccdccauanbanwauen Managing Editor
VARY KUYKENDALL: -ccces.2-cboesooseenee Sports Editor
MARTINGGBARNEM: 22clecccccccsce-lsccse Associate Editor
RIARVRY? GUASS Gon. cocacebsolayiecccesues. Associate Editor
RAUL CH ARUAN coos wuadacuucacuwuouscuee Associate Editor
MOM: MARCHANT: Wccuccecccascueces sCuke Associate Editor
JORN WALKER: slauactadusuavasdaceucses Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

CuHaries Mauze .. --Circulation Manager
Bint SWOPr ss2 2 --Circulation Manager
Bos VANcE -- --Circulation Manager: -
Hoke Ropinson --dAdvertising Manager
Bit Hitt <= ---Collection Manager

BILGGOVERD Risso secdecseoasase Assistant Business Manager

WEDNESDAY, MAY |

All wish to’ possess knowledge, but few, comparatively
speaking, are willing to pay the price—JUVENAL.

The Student Body extends deepest sympathy
to John McQueen in his recent bereavement.

dr Fy

Pan-Hellenic Council which is comprised of one
senior representative from each of the nine social

A SUGGESTION TO
THE PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

fraternities is an organization designed to regulate
the social activities of Davidson College in view of
the best interests of both the students and the fra-
ternities. The Council has thus far been given rather
free reins in their selection of dance orchestras, and
the liabilities involved.

The group as a whole are directly Ferponeiple for
any losses which they may also any profits
which are made are equally distributed between the
nine councilmen, This fact works a hardship on both
the council and the students. In many instances
fearing the possibility of having to make a with-

incur;

drawal from their own pockets, the Pan-Hellenic ,

Council engages the services of a second or third
rate orchestra, thereby assuring themselves an easy
profit, whereas the students can receive only dis-
satisfaction and disappointment. This has only too
often been illustrated by the actions of the past Pan-
Hellenic Councils which have continuously made
express promises to secure the best possible music
their budget would allow; and as the students easily
recall, they have in no case fulfilled their part of the
agreement.

There seems to be two very prevalent causes for
these complaints. First: the members of the Pan-
Hellenic Council do not look upon their offices as
other Student Body officials do. In the past they
have not been spirited enough to give their services
to the best interests of the Student Body without
receiving some compensation, and always they have
assured themselves that they would be justly com-
pensated. Second: the fraternities have shown a
lack of interest in not requiring their Pan-Hellenic
representatives to be directly responsible to them
for any action they may take. In reality the council-

_ men are not representatives of the social fraternities
at all, but representatives of themselves and looking
out for their own selfish interests.

Perhaps a solution to these difficulties might be
found by allowing the fraternities to more-directly
sponsor the dances by lending their financial sup?
port. Then the returns from the dances could either
be divided between the fraternities at the end of
each year or turned into a fund to be drawn upon
by the Pan-Hellenic Councils in the future. By this
method-the Pan-Hellenic Council coordinating with
the nine fraternities would be able to secure a much
better grade of orchestras, and thus give the stu-
dents a better return on their money. The Pan-
Hellenic representatives would be directly responsible
to the social fraternities which would in turn give
them the necesasry financial support.

The new Pan-Hellenic Council for next year has
just recently been elected. Many members of the
Student Body are eagerly wondering whether these
new men will follow in the paths of the old council-
men, or whether they will raise themselves above
this level and make the dancing situation one never
before equaled at Davidson.

T. M. M.

VIRTUES OF
IDEAL COLLEGE MAN EK

VERY college
wishes to be an ideal one, but few of us know ex-
actly how to attain that goal. Perhaps, some helpful
information could be gotten from the following
enumeration by Dean Berens, of Marquette Uni-
versity.

Dean Berens has been an instructor and advisor
of boys and young men for mgre than twenty years
so you.can take these ten cardinal virtues of the
“ideal college man’ that he recounts as being a
result of first hand observation.

1. The college man should have a strong ambition
to succeed, together with a determination to over-
come obstacles.

2. He should take part in the normal activities
of extra-curricula affairs, but without excess in
them.

3. He should possess the qualities of leadership,
but this does not imply that he must be a class officer
or hold office in campus organizations.

+. He may do outside work if he must, but it is
better to save money for one or two years after
preparatory school, and then enter college.

5. As a character, he must possess the qualities
of honesty, uprightness, courage and fidelity.

6, He must be temperate.
the countenance reflects the
quality of the soul, he must give an outward ap-
pearance of pleasantness. He need not be good look-
ing or a Beau Brummel.

8. He must be mature. A boy who appears im-
mature at the age of 18 should delay entering col-
lege. A year or two of work would bring him into
contact with the difficulties of life; he would learn
the value of money and develop a better outlook on
education,

10. He must conduct himself in such a manner
as will give evidence of a sincere christian gentleman,

7. Inasmuch as

PARAGRAPHICS

The Junior class conducted one of the most im-
pressive vesper services of the year, last Sunday
night, on the lawn in-front-of-Chambers—-Building,
There were three interesting talks by members of
the class, music was furnished by the college band,
and a fairly large crowd was in attendance.

Judging from the effectiveness of this service it
would seem advisable that more of these Sunday eve-
ning programs be composed entirely of students.

The Y officials are to be commended, however,
for the excellent array of speakers they have brought
to Davidson this year.

According to all reports, the Davidson unit of the
R.O.T.C, made an excellent showing in the recent
government inspection. No definite report has been
received from the inspector, so it isn’t possible to
know the exact rating received by the local depart-
ment, but from the many encouraging remarks made
by the genial Captain Brand last Friday, it would
be safe to prophesy another excellent rating for the
Davidson militarists.

The Professors in this department are to be con-
gratulated for their efficient training of the cadets,
and Cadet Lieutenant-Colonel Potter should also
receive heartiest felicitations for his good work as
commander of the Davidson battalion.

Why is the tall graceful flag pole on the front of
the’ Davidson campus. never used, except at com-
mencement time? This has long been a question in
the minds of many students.

It would certainly be nice if this stately gift of
the class of 1917 could be made use of at least’ occa-
sionally. In recent years it has been employed only
for the purpose of waving in the breeze a sheet bear-
ing the numerals of the freshman class, but at gradu-
ation, when most of the students are gone, the Senior
class raises its colors along with the Stars and
Stripes to the top of the pole and an attractive and
imposing picture is created.

It really does seem a shame that this flag pole is
used so little when it could be made to add noticeably
to the front campus.

Davidson radio programs have been resumed over
station WBT and at the very odd hour of one o’clock
every Monday afternoon.

This gives to many people who formerly were
unable to hear the program an opportunity to now
enjoy it. Many have complained about the changing
of times for these broadcasts, but it is to the school’s
advantage to vary the hour, because, even though
everybody isn’t reached on all the broadcasts, some
hours are more convenient than others for listeners
consequently those who were unable to tune in on
the programs heretofore may be afforded that priv-
ilege with the changed hour.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW

The influence of Popeye, the comic strip character,
is being felt by the school cafeteria at North Caro-
lina State College (Raleigh), where spinach disap-
pears more rapidly from the steam table than any
other vegetable.

The oldest car on the campus at Ohio State Uni-
versity (Columbus) is a 1913 Ford roadster, with
illumination provided by kerosene lamps.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By Haro.p Succ

Over twenty of the locals delved into
the classical for entertainment Friday
night and went over to hear Nelson
Eddy, a baritone who has to have a
bodyguard to keep the women away.
Those returning declare it the best en-
tertainment of the year, indicating no
doubt to the old order’s chagrin that
college boys are not utterly devoid of

ee Naas ‘ ”
classical appreciation. “The Prize Song,
from” Wagner's “Der Meistersingers,”
was one which received most favorable
comment. Wiley Bradley accompanied
one of the fairer sex and Paul Harlan
had his latest flame along with him.

Nothing is being done to
lengthen rushing season. Will the
rising Seniors take this oportunity
to provide leadership and move
toward remedying this policy
which is a menace to the David-
son Spirit of good-will that now
exists between fraternities. Scho-
lastically it is a nearsighted policy.

An genial envir is no
stimulus to scholarship.
Stars fell all over Davidson last

Wednesday night when a feminine dele-
gation from Salisbury arrived to encour-
age us to leave our monastery for a hop
Friday night. Circulating between the
dormitories they meandered down to the
Student Store followed by a gaping
crowd of some 100 bashful gentlemen.
There they were met by Joe Dees, who
introduced them to the president of the

student body, Henry Eave, and Vice-
President Max Britain. President Eave
promptly demonstrated his executive

ability by having one of them do a dis-
appearing act. Midst a milling crowd
which insisted upon dashing in and out
of the Student Store, Manager Jimmy
Simpson gave them half-interest in the
business on the condition that they re-
main on exhibit.

We saw Joe Johnston, Baron
Harkins iu Tom Breeden behind
the ished

- +

g ig in ast
and Gentl Sam
Ryburn: helping them get along.
Bill Bondurant and Goof Cooke
were loping hither and thither
and Biscoe Howell found a long-
lost cousin, Another romance shat-
tered. After a few cheers and
ropryy AIEEE) Gey Fa rye
to terpsichore ge both to disin-
clination and unfortunate cirum-
stance, the ladies were escorted to
the Kappa Sig house for further
entertainment,

Many were they who went. The Beta
triumvirate, Bill Atwater, Bob Johnson
and Dave Sellars were there, and Ken
Fryfogle, Walt Dickson and Jack Som-
erville as well. Howard Dyer, Tom Bas-
kerville, President Eave, Don Stewart
and Frank Taylor were others who found
the stomping ground of Henry Davis a
pleasant one. Geddie Monroe recited the
epic relating to ants, Rig Dees was fol-
lowing a certain Blue-gowned Alice and
Tom Brady was going for a Miss James.
Our stooge reports that Jack Branch es-
corted Miss Armistead and that Buddy
Robinson had to give up Miss Shaver
for a tenor saxophone.

Pig-calling and Birds-in-Cages
were much in evidence. Under-
takers Scotty McLeod, Gordon
Smith and Bill Harris went in
search of a Dedmon. Perhaps they
heard their death Nell.

Too quickly we prepare for the leay-
ing of ‘35. Contemplatively, it seems
that each class develops its own char-
acteristic, The seniors,»although power-
ful in athletics, reached their crowning
achievement in providing leadership. The
juniors’ favorite field is on the track, al-
though they have lost some by gradua-
tion,
tures) seem to be developing along “lit-
erati” lines. The freshmen have dis-
tinguished themselves in two aspects, one
of which is athletics. Wade Barrow,
Billy Kiesewetter and “Teeny” Lafferty
are_as fine all-round athletes as one class
could boast of.

NEWS NOTES: John Porterfield,
Warner DuBose, Bill Atwater and Harpo
Harlan had, in turn, a mammoth bull-
frog for a bedmate last week, page
Ss. P. C. A.!’; KAPPA ALPHA RE-
BELS: “We will neither go to Charlotte
or Salisbury,” said fourteen members of
this lodge, so Friday night found them
doing the Continental in the Trianon of
Paw Creek City. Harvey MacConnell
is heading a drive for the Promotion
of’ Pacifism. The Pi Kapps and the
Pikas had parties over the week-end,
while the S. P. E.’s pulled a big one at
the Carolina Country Club,

The Civic League of; Davidson held
its regular meeting Tuesday afternoon at
the Civic League Hall. A book shower

was held in the interest of the David-
son town library.

and the centennials (modest crea- |

OUR
ontemporartes

By Enip Bowers

MILITARISTS .. .

Students at the University of Georgia
did not participate in the recent peace
strike for three reasons: one, those who
think know that a mere walk-out will
not aid one iota in the struggle for
world peace; two, those who don’t think
did not have enough energy to walk out
of class; and third, no classes were e nel
at 11 a. m. anyway.

URIAH HEEP COMPLEX...

Personal nomination for man of the
month—the Clemson bandsman who not
only invited two girls down for Taps,
but brazenly put both names down on
the dance list.

PROFESSORS...

A professor at Brown University pho-
tographs every person who borrows
money from him—maybe some profes-
sors are smart. ... A sign on the dean’s
office at Creighton University reads, “Get
your grades and pass out quietly.”
Then there was the professor in a Vir-
ginia college who cut class for the first
time in thirty years because he thought

Washington's birthday” cime on the
twenty-second of March.
TO THE LADIES!

Co-eds at Mercer should wear uni-

forms of an inconspicuous color and de-
sign, so that the men students can bet-
ter concentrate on their work, advises
The Mercer Cluster... . While in a let-
ter entitled “Grin and Bent It” a Tulane
co-ed complains to the editor of Hulla-
baloo of too much attention from the
masculine element. Tulane has become
a school suited only for ‘those co-eds
who,can “take it,” she avers.

INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT .. .

And then there was the Winthrop lass
whose mother wrote: “What would you
do if I sent you a check for $1,000?”
After due consideration the loving
daughter replied: “I'd have sense enough
not to cash it.”

COLLEGIANA ...

Raising chickens in their rooms is the
latest fad with the students at Marshall
College (Huntington, W. Va.) .. ./A
Randolph-Macon official concides, after
room inspection, that, if men are made

of dust, her charges had better look
under their beds.
The recent Little Commencement

dances are hailed as the University of
Georgia's soberest week-end. . . . But
there was the student at Kentucky who
attended German class for two weeks
and thought he was taking geology.

In a poll recently conducted by the
Sun Dial of Montreat Junior College,
Davidson was named the most popular
boys’ school, leading Clemson for that
honor by a margin of six votes... ,
Incidentally, all but nineteen of the Mon-
treat damsels cherish matrimonial inten-
tions, and a happy home life is, for a
majority, the highest ambition—so, bach-

;glor beware!

Although only 957 students voted,
there were 1,060 ballots ‘cast in the re-

“Real Religion” Is
Theme Of Vespers

Junior Class is in Charge of First
Outdoor Vesper Service
of Year

The first outdoor Vesper service of
the year was held last Sunday evening
on the lawn in front of Chambers

| Building, being entirely conducted by the

Junior class,

Cole Windham, president of the class
was in charge of the sérvice, the theme
of which was “Real Religion.” It was
discussed from three different viewpoints :
the attitude, need, and means of acquir-
ing.

John McMullen spoke first on “The
Attitude to Religion on the Davidson
Campus.” Sid Marsh’ followed, speak-
ing on “The Need for Religion.” The
series of talks was concluded by Carl-
ton Chapman who spoke on “How to
Acquire Religion.”

The College Band furnished music for
the service. Scripture reading was by
Archie Shuford following an opening
hymn, After the talks were concluded
and a hymn sung ‘the congregation. was
dismissed in prayer by John McMullen.

Next Sunday, May 5, is the date for
the installation of the new Y.M.C.A, cab-
inet and officers. The new officers are:
Harvey Glass, president; Walter Dick-
son, vice-president; and Wade Boggs,
vice-president.

Retiring officers are:
president; Sid Marsh,
and Treadway Purnell, vice-president.
The retiring cabinet: Don Bailey, Don
Brandon, Skip Brown, Bob Coit, Doug-
las Glasgow, Ed Hodge, Sid Marsh, Bill
Neill; Tommy Phifer, Treadway Purnell.
Ben Rose, Bob Smith,. and Kenneth
Weeks,

Professor Ernest

Walter Sprunt,
vice-president ;

Beaty will be the
the installation
service which will be held outdoors also,
weather permitting.

principal speaker ‘for

cent S. G. A, election at Duke.~. . . The
University was the only Virginia school
to codperate wholeheartedly in the
peace strike movement of a few weeks
ago.

Due to a faculty ruling, student body
elections at W. and L. can no longer be
held in Lee Chapel. . . . “Rain” has be-
come thesS. T. C. hens song, reports a
Rotunda columnist... . Alabama Sie
is celebrating an annual “Pill Week” i:
connection with approaching May Day
festivities,

Outsiders have been barred from P. C.
dormitories as result of a recent wave
of petty thievery... . : A University of
South’ Carolina student recently con-
sumed twelve eggs at one Mitt geen ay
Mars Hill will offer a course in journal-
ism to those students interested in cam-
pus publications,

The Emily Post influence has pene-
trated as far south as V. P. I. Butter
knives and sugar spoons for the mess
hall were requested in a recent letter to

the editor of the Virginia Tech.

‘ir was NEWS...

99 From DAVIDSONIANS
of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Student Body officers installed
at second annual Student Body dinner.

. O D K taps thirteen college lead-
ers... . Professor Beaty speaks at ves-
pers. ... May 6 set for Athletic Night.

. Wildcats defeat Deacons in track,
98-27, as three school records fall... .
Professor Fleagle anounces that plans for
summer school are complete. . . . Tennis
team completes eastern totir. . . . Captain
Jack Pepper of the golf team wins state
golf championship. . .. Press convention
held in High Point. . . . Freshman ten-
nis team to play Darlington.

TEN YEARS AGO

-to hold semi-annual
meeting here. .. . Tennis team ‘wins four
big matches... . 'Cat nine defeats Guil-
ford in fast game. . . . Coach Younger
signs to return next year. ... Dr. D,
Clay Lilly talks at vespers. . . . Freshmen

New

College editors

{defeat State nine, 9-4...

. Five studerits
in the infirmary with’ the mumps... .
R. A. Wilkinson and W. S. Adams
chosen managers of. the Student Store
for coming year. . . . Spanish Club to
hold entertainment.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Track team defeats Clemson and Uni-
versity of South Carolina... . Alumni
issue of The Davidsonian issued. . . .
Meeting of the Alumni Association called
at Commencement. Baseball team
defeats Elon, 6-3 and 3-0. Rifle
match with Wofford cancelled. . . . Gam-
ma Sigma Epsilon, pail “s faery,
organized at Davidson. Reporters
Club holds feed. ; Davidecn golfers
break even with Salisbury. . . . Students
urge Dr. Richards to remain at David-
son....R. O. T. C, unit to be inspected
soon, Band completes successful
trip.

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

K. D. WEEKS

Fine Printing

Q@UEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

e
Representatives

{ ee

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

JOE WADSWORTH

