THE DAVIDSONIAN

» DECEMBER 4,

1935

The Dabidsonitan

Founded by the Class of 19165

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Diéest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the

QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
must be In the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN ........ ©
R. P. MORROW, Jr. . . . .

Editor
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

UTM MORTON: cuusbvcacuasudslhaccascuecel Managing Editor
LOWELL OVRRTONS Sou cuauadeccubosaeeeest Managing Editor
EVAROLD SUCO ccucesauLccccucasccuceeneoel Managing Editor
DAV MOND cLURNER: sussakanebachobesuccsl Managing Editor
JORNEA\WINNG cubtau cer Wauagusccuwiundace! Managing Editor
FIARRY— KUYKENDALL —ccscsusseuaxucaacwis Sports Editor
MARTIN: BARNRUD sbuccaksbausuccsissenss Associate Editor
HARVEY GLASS) soca cne asi cseene cae ne ee, Associate Editor
PAUUGHANDAN? coavaen cet tocccouLeoseouay Associate Editor
MOMeMARCHANIN cabuce Cscscuscussueuweue? 4ssociate Editor

JoHN WALKER --Associate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

SGHARLEST MAUZER: acts scecunecascusse Circulation Manager
Birt Sworg -...- ---Cireulation Manager
BOBuVANCE occeccs .--Circulation Manager
Hoke Ropinson - -Advertising Manager
BIGGS inden ce cssucesteewce uLosgess Collection Manager
Bite DEVERER ciusuucsuannaeut dssistant Business Manager
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1935

Where there is no vision, the people perish: but

he that keepeth the law happy ts he.—Prov, 29:18.

PARAGRAPHICS....

Dr. Speer’s courageous and challenging messages
should sink deep into the hearts of all Davidson men.
They had an inspiring note that is rare and yet un-
derstandable.

With only sixty-three dissenting votes from two
hundred and seventy-seven cast on the anti-noise
amendment, the Davidson student body showed that
Athe unnecessary. noise that has\been going on is very
unwelcome. . os

Watts’ challenge to Georgia came so late that
nany of the students in the latter place of abode
wonder if their rival’s fear of being called “sissies”
didn't overcome their dread of having to again face
the ferocious gridiron attack of their conquerors of
last season.

THANKS....

Members of The Red & Black Masquers wish to
express their appreciation to all those who aided in
making the play, “Whistling in the Dark", a success.
The Club is indebted to Professor Pfohl for post-
poning his scheduled concert; to Professor Erwin,
Miss Steele, Mrs. Martin and other members of the
cast for their splendid cooperation; to ODK, Phi
and Iiu literary societies, the annual, the social fra-
ternities “and other organizations whose meetings
were postponed; and to the student body for its
wholehearted support and attendance.

of —Dave Herring, Pres.

SWAN SONG SINGERS...

Thanksgiving afternoon ten Davidson ‘football
warriors donned the Red and Black grid togs for the
last time. Some of them were stars, others just play-
ed the game as best they could, but they will be
missed, when the next season opens. k

To Co-captains Henry Cathey and Cole Windham.
we would like to extend particular congratulations.
You have played the game in a fine sportsmanlike
manner for the past four years. You have led well
the 1935 team, and you leave inspiring gaps in that
“thin red line” for future Wildcats.

To you other eight Seniors: Leroy’ Blackwelder,
Wood Burns, “Six” Johnston, Swede Johnston, Paul
Pittman, “Midge” Verble, “Chub” Yarborough, and
Fields Young we also over congratulations, as well as
the appreciation of the student body for your work
and spirit. :

OLYMPIC GAMES—SHOULD AMERICA
ENTER

Propaganda to keep the United States from taking
part in the 1935 Olympic Games scheduled to take
place in Berlin has been rampant during the past few
months. It takes every form from small printed pam-
phlets to tremendous colored posters bearing the pic-
tures of a powerful athlete trying to escape the giant
clutches of octapus-tentacles springing from the
points of a Nazi Swastika. Books have been printer
on the subject. Newspapers carry, everyday, some
interesting observation from representative organiza-
tions througout the nation, but what benefit is com-
ing from all the efforts? :

Agitation first began in June 1933 soon after
Fuhrer Hitler declared his Nazi program to be in

effect. With this declaration athletics, along with
everything else in Germany, came under direct con-
trol of the Central government, which forbids any
participation of Jews or Semetic descendants in af-
fairs of state. Immediately, and, naturally, the Inter-
national Olympic Committee was aroused to make
clear its stand with regards to racial discrimination
among participants in the Olympics.

Naziism, fearing that the chances of staging the
Games. at Berlin might be put in jeopardy if they
clung stubbornly to their dictatorial position, pre-
sented to the International Committee the following
compromising pledges :

1. “The German Olympic. Committee has dele-
gated the mandate that has been entrusted to it to
a special Organizing Committee.

2. “All the laws regulating the Olympic Games
will be observed.

3. “As a principle, German Jews. shall not be
excluded from German teams at the eleventh Olym-
piad.”

Recently the Germans were accused of having
broken these pledges. They, without hesitating long-
er than the time it took to again receive governmental
consent, renewed them. However, the fact that it
was necessary to have the authorization of Hitler
and his cohorts seems to change the accusers slant,
and now rather than single out the anti-Semetic ele-
ment for criticism they contend that the issue is:
“Whether Nazi policies and activities in the realm
of sports and in connection with the Olympic Games
themselves are of such a character as to make it
impossible for the Games to-be held in Nazi Ger-
many in the true spirit of sportsmanship and of the
Olympics.” ‘

To my mind no governmental condition in Ger-
many would keep American athletes from  partici-
pating” in the Olympic Games with the highest pos-
sible type spirit of sportsmanship, characteristic of
our country’s athletes and of all participants in for-
mer Olypiads. To withdraw the United States
from the 1936 Games, however, would be a very
definite and obvious act of poor sportsmanship.

The question of who should be representatives
on the German team is entirely a matter for Ger-
many to decide for herself. The American Ama-
teur Athletic Union is perfectly noble in its efforts
to preserve the Olympic Tdeal, and keep Germany
within the bounds of Olympic regulations during
the progress of the Games, but to meddle in the
domestic affairs of the Germans and threaten to not
allow American athletes to take part in the Olympics
unless Germany lifts its restrictions from its own
people, is quite clearly an act of “barking up a tree
on posted ground”,

The United States doesn’t have to be a victim of
poor sportsmanship, simply because some other na-
tion so conducts itself. That is their ‘little red
wagon,” let them pull it where and as they please.

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

ADVICE TO EDITORS...

This glowing description of the perils of collegiate
publishing was copped from THE.TIGER:

Getting out this paper is no picnic.

If we print jokes, people say we are silly;

If we don’t, they say we are too serious ;

If we clip things from other papers, we are too
lazy to write them ourselves ; Sad

If we stick close to the job all the time.

We ought to be hunting up,news;

If we go out and try to hustle,

We ought to be in the office ;

Tf we don’t print contributions,

We don't appreciate true genius ;

And if we do print them, the paper is
junk;

If we make a change in the other fellow’s write-up,

We are too critical ;

If we don’t, we're asleep.

Now, like assuot, some guy will say we swiped this
from some other paper.

WE, DID!

filled with

PUNISHMENT .. .

Personal nomination for the worst pun of the
month goes to the Hastings student who pinned. the
following to a piece of Beanery toast: This is noi
the toast that Sir Walter Rawleigh drank to (Queen
Elizabeth.”

NAZI! NAZI!...

“Should America participate in the Olympic
Games?” Is a question which seems to be raging
throughout the collegiate press at this time. Many
undergraduate editors seem to feel that we most
emphatically should not, if the Olympics are held
in Germany as scheduled. The present government
of that country does not live up to the ideal of inter-
national sportsmanship, they coytend.

“STARS FELL ON ——”...

A freshman prayer, as overheard by THE FLOR-
ALA: “Please Lord, I'm not asking anything for
myself. I only pray that the person next to me
knows something on this exam,”

AT CAROLINA ...

There was a boy who christened his automobile
“Shasta”. You know, Shasta have water, Shasta
have oil, Shasta have gas, ete.

NOT THAT IT MATTERS...

THE MAROON feels that the turkey should get
some Thanksgiving consideration. “Whereas most
people only gave thanks, he gave his all.’’ . Give some
guys enough rope and they'll start making five cent
cigars ... N. Y. A. checks can be endorsed with an
X; perhaps it is expecting too much of some people
to write their name as others spell it... A statistician
at Georgia Tech recently compiled a list of 2500
English cuss words. . . The Fordham mascot, a goat,
disgraced -himself by mistaking an elderly woman
for a football when she bent over to pick dandelions
near the practice field. . . In the Eskimo language
“I love you” is “Unifggaernauburenslfingununagi-
ourgaifoes”, Perhaps this will explain the old ques-
tion as to why the arctic nights are so long, accord-
ing to a Purdue ,journalist Add definitions:
“Propaganda—a papa goose.” :

|

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

OLD TURKEY
THRICE HASHED

From the rails of third floor Georgia,
far beyond efficient laundries and drab
ROTC buildings are scattered ferric
fields, a faint rise of hills, and trees
whose autumn warmth has been nearly
frozen by gray wintry blasts; in the
stillness of early: morning this scene is
misty gray, in the afternoon a business-
like bright, and in the cold dusk an in-
terspersed mixture of blue and purple.
Walking toward Main St. on the now
improved walk past Shearer one can see
clearly on brighter days the first rum-
blings of the Blue Ridges. From the ‘sta-
dium across the hills and toward the
gulleys a dying autumn still asserts it-
self in dulled red, and up the road be-
hind the golf course, looking townward
in the late afternoon, the sinking sun
seems to pull the redness from the earth,
blend it with the prism of the clouds,
and the day dies in sometimes a copper
sometimes a lavender splendour. The
most beautiful line in the Bible are the
words of a lonely shepherd before Arma-
geddon, “I will lift up mine eyes unto
the hills.”

Watts the matter with Watts?
Full many a moon hath passed
and except for the familiar slurp
of tea drinking at 5 o’clock no
sounds emanate therefrom. Is their
tea weaker than usual? Fear they
to challenge Georgia’s Champions
who so humbled them? Have they
switched from gridiron to waffle-
iron, or have their dim wits result-
ed in non-graduation so that they
have becomesenile and hoary with
age? We term th e‘‘Watts’’. the
“Almost Gots.’”, They almost got
into Georgia.

THE PICAYUNE SNITCHER

Another among the Pestiferous Per-
sonages that breed under dormitory con-
ditions is the hypocritical Picayune
Snitcher, This bird will not steal $10 nor
forget to return a $60 typewriter and fain
would do violent protest to dishonesty.
Sut once reveal to him the location of
your candy, ink, medicine, stationery or
hair tonic and this bird will pick away
gradually and stealthily, bit by bit and
day by day, until no more is: there left.
We hear of another PP, the Chapel-
IVanderer, which species congregates just
Perhaps we’ had better stick to column

a PP?
MUSIC HATH CHARMS

There is a certain prominent cornetist,
from northerly regions, who with his pal,
“Shirley” Motley, were bothered in their
dates by a lad of Charlotte Hi. So
“Yank”, as he is called, sat down at the
piano (whether the Charlotte Hi boy
laughed we do not know) and_ played
“How Can I Leave Thee?” over and
The lad took the hint and left
Yank and “Shirley” to enjoy the eve-
ning. But when the time for departure
arrived, Motley and Cunningham were at
a loss as to exactly what Charlotte High
had done to the automobile. Lamenting
this tragedy, we have composed an elegy.
Perhaps w ehad better stick to column
writing, but anyway:

“How can I leave Thee,’’ he play-

ed

“When Charlotte Hi stayed and

stayed.

But once more the encore

He played in a panic,

For How Can I Leave Thee

Without a Mechanic?”

over.

OK’D BY US

Sam Ryburn’s poem about Freshmen
... Hal Overton’s Hiss Column and car-
toons. . . Carleton Chapman .. . Joe
Dees & Co for evoking mass panegyrics.
... Mrs. Smith, . . Davidson Band in-
spires Virginia to go forth and do like-
wise. .. Esquire, for putting mark at end
of story sparing us egoistic setback in
turning page to discover. . . Paul Pitt-
man who should lave been on official All-
State.

JOVIAL JUNKET

Howard Covington and Dick Johnson,
All-State honor, travelled to Philadel-
phia to watch the Army shell Navy. Ed
Armfield accompanied Beda Carlson to
the game. Prof. Peters entertained at the
Heinkle Dance, with Mills Taylor, Max
Brittain, Buddy Branton and Jimmy Wil-
son among others attending. We hear that
Jimmy also likes poetry by Burns. Bob
Wyatt’s Hotel Home in- Raleigh saw
cheerful gatherings over the week and
we hear that Ken Knorr would hold
Peace Conferences every week. We
would too in Ken’s position. John Par-
tridge and Dennis. Myers took to South
Carolina, and Pat who has taken a liking
to a band leader’s sister, among others

AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate Press
Correspondent)

Washington, D, C.—Oddenda of the
Week—

Louis Carter, more popularly known
as Jay Franklin, who is the Resettlement
Administration's press relations chief,
has with his assistant, Kenneth Clark,
been very successful in handling the
newsmen that come to Resettlement’s
executive offices in the Department of
Agriculture’s new South building. Re-
porters searching for some live item on
the Resettlement’s program are taken
into Carter’s office and there given semi-
confidential information on some phase
of the work, information that is inter-
esting but not damaging, but which re-
sembles inside stuff closely enough to
boost the reporter’s status with his edi-
tor. Satisfied, the newsman goes off, feel-
ing that what he has is more important
than anything he might have dug up
through a series of questions on the pro-
gram as a whole. . .

* * *

Ex-President Hoover, in, his speech
before the Ohio Society of New York,
in speaking of Washington's New Deal
planners and administrators, referred to
them as “starry-eyed youngsters.” The
phrase implies an excess of idealism com-
bined with naivete. The average age of
the key men in this group is probably
close to 40, Moreover, these “youngsters,”
after three years spent under a barrage
of outside criticism are anything but
“starry-eyed.” They're very much aware
of the shortcomings of their own plan-
ning. sey

Part of this awareness comes from the
fact that they’re capable of regarding
their own work with a critical attitude.
And part of this awareness is the result
of internal criticism their plans have re-
ceived from within their own adminis-
trations, It seems that their assistants,
even younger than they, are always point-
ing out weaknesses in administrative
structure, the critical attitude apparently
being the strongest among those with
the fewest years, The eye turned upon
each new development of their chief's
program by each of these young as-
sistants in the different emergency agen-

cies is more likely to be a jaundiced eye
than a “starry” eye.’. .
* * *

Social Note--Nov. 26 is the date for
the annual Big Ten Roundup at the Wil-
lard Hotel. On that evening, scores of
alumni and alumnae of the Big Ten
schools will get together ostensibly for
several hours of reminiscing about their
undergraduate days, will supposedly hud-
dle together to make inquiries of each
other concerning long lost roommates
and friends. What probably will really
happen is that no one will spend much
time in discussing the past. Everyone will
pump everyone else shamelessly, about
their jobs, about the probable plans of
their bureaus, ask about so-and-so’s sal-
ary and so-and:so’s chances for promo-
tion, because if so-and-so is promoted
they're going to hit him for. an adminis-
trative job, Opportunism will be so thick
you won't be able to cut through it with
an ideal, for the time being.

I'll check that prophecy on the 26th
and if my prediction is wrong I promise
to penalize myself by voluntaril ‘y limit-
ing my reading this winter to the Con-
gressional Record, the published Hear-
ings of the House Sub-Committee on
Deticiency Appropriations, and last year’s
seed catalogues. . .

* * *

In 1930 The Daily Cardinal, student
daily of the University of ‘Wisconsin,
had for its editorial chairman a very out-
spoken young man named Forrest Allen.
A very able writer, capable of first rate
editorial satire. Allen throughout his sen-
ior year was about as popular with the
faculty as a pay cut before Christmas.
Anything done by the conservatives on
the faculty that Mr. Allen didn’t approve
of was promptly followed by a stinging
editorial in The Daily Cardinal. And
there wasn't very much they did that
Mr. Allen approved of.

Today Forrest Allen, whom several of
his adversaries on the faculty once hope-
fully believed would come to a bad end,
is rumored to be drawing down a salary
of $8,000 a year, as an Assistant Coor-
dinator of the TVA, under David Lilien-
thal. If things had» gone against Allen
in this fashion, any more than they did,
he would probably today be in the Junior
Cabinet, repenting of the evil of his ways.

“Compare The NEWS”

From DAVIDSONIANS
e e e of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Prof. E. J. Erwin is elected president
of the South Atlantic Modern Language
Group, at the convention which was held
here last week-end. .. Davidson is de-
feated by Wake Forest, 13-2, on Thanks-
giving. A record crowd of 10,000 fans
views the contest in Charlotte. . . Nine
are initiated into Phi Beta Kappa. Dr.
E. ‘W. Sikes, president of Clemson Col-
lege speaks at the ceremony, .. Dr. H, E.
Kirk of Baltimore will deliver a_ series
of Otts lectures to begin next Monday.

. Five men from Davidson will try
for Rhodes Scholarship. . . Basketball
practice starts with 3 lettermen back.

met a train full of Converse Sunday.
Mary Poyner was there.

MICHING MALLECHO

Why is Charley Malone called George
Washington? (1) He cut down thé cherry
tree. (2) First in peace. (3) Threw 50c
across the Potomac. (4) Never told a
lie. (5) First in war. Has Chas. Mauze
become a master of that gentle art of
Convers-ing? Did Sandy Moffett realy
want to date the dean at Limestone?
Why does Jimmy Westall know nothing
about anything after a trip to the moun-
tains? Does Johnny Armstrong pay any
attention to warnigg signs? Does Tread-
way always date chaperones?
| Y SUGG*ESTION: That Tom Marchant
see the picture show next Monday, “I
Dream Too Much.” Perhaps Miss Lucas
can explain this disposition. George
Hornbeck gets latch loosing letter. Bob
Tissue gets service with smiles. NEWS:
George Nortleet stays a week-end on the
campus, Medicine Man Lyerly.

TEN YEARS AGO

Phi Beta Kappa initiates 13 men Fri-
day night. Dr. Edward Mack of Rich-
mond is the chief speaker. . . Wildcats
finish the football season by defeating
Duke, 26-0 on Thanksgiving. . . Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, Honorary Chemical Fra-
ternity holds convention at Davidson. . .
The Senior gift for this year will be
stone benches placed on the campus. . .
Three Davidson men make places on All-
State Football team... Dr. J..R. Sevier,.
President of Fassifern School for Girls,
speaks at “Y"' Vespers Sunday’. . . The
Glee Club makes its annual trip to
Mooresville and presents a Concert Fri-
day.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

The Wildcat Minstrel is pronounced
a success by a packed house Saturday
night. B. W. Romefelt was named
captain of the 1921 football team after
the Furman Game, Thursday. .. S. P.
Verner, famous African explorer to be
heard by the students on December sixth.
... Juniors win class basketball for sec-
ond successive year... C. K. Brown and
J. H. McKeithen will represent David-
son in the Randolph-Macon debate Tues-
day night. Gamma Sigma Epsilon
initiates three men . . . Major H. R.
Smalley conducts semi-annual inspection
of the Davidson Battalion. . . The col-
lege band will give a concert tonight.

TWENTY YEARS AGO

Senior Speaking pronounced the best
that has been held. . . Davidson closes
successful season by defeating Wake For-
est, 21-7... A reception is held at Queens
College in Charlotte for Davidson Stu-
dents after the Glee Club concert.

Commencement Invitations

Fraternity Publications

1143 E. FOURTH ST.

Lamont Brown

Fine Printing

QUEEN CITY
PRINTING CO.

e
Representatives

Visiting Cards

Personal and Fraternity Stationery

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. P. Morrow

