THE DAVIDSONIAN,

OCTOBER 30, 1935

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member : 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

econd-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
sete arth Carolina, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION
it in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock p. m.,
herbed Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN .. . .4~ «= + + ~+ Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. . . . . . Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
tMeeMORTON: sekccccecuescccsbecscsur ess Managing Editor
Howett Overton
Haroip Succ

DAYMOND—TURNER—scloccssanseadcsscewsal Managing Editor
OHNE WINN: serersoceclics Managing Edttor
HARK WeINUVKENDALY: du cesusscccosseaslousah Sports Editor

Martin BARNETT -Associate Editor

HARVEY GHASS © uawand succvabecsassccone? Associate Editor
PAut HaArtan—__. Sebuaasceuw ecw wees Associate Editor
OM MAROHANT disddcusauscuausaasausaud Associate Editor
JOHN WALKER (cecadcucs succheuauccusseat Associate Editor
BUSINESS’STAFF
GHARDES EMAUZE cucsevaccabecesacuas Circulation Manager
Bites WORBuseccew cc ot woleeuacesseese Circulation Manager
BORGVIANCH: ouucues ---Circulation Manager
Hoke Roprnson -- Advertising Manager
Binh iG awae ewe --Collection Manager
Bint DYERLE: cecopecuccuuasess stant Business Manager

Give instruction-to a wise man, and he will be yet
wiser’ teach a just man and he will increase in learn-
ing.—Prov, 8:9,

We express sincerest sympathy to A. C.
Adams and J. W. Lipstreu, in the recent
death of their fathers.

PARAGRAPHICS....

Reverend Peter Marshall's inspiring and thought-
provoking messages, delivered at the Y. M. C. A.
fall services, will long be remembered by those who
heard them. ;

Davidson is indeed fortunate to have such an ap-
pealing personality to conduct this group of annual
revival exercises.

x kk x

Heartiest congratulations are extended to those
eight members of the senior class who were recently
elected to Phi Beta Kappa. This doesn’t necessarily
indicate that these men have more brains than the
other members of their class, but it is a reward for
having employed their mental faculties more wisely
and diligently.

SPLENDID OVATION ....

The splendid ovation with which the Kryl band
was received Monday night opened the 1935-’36
concert series in a most encouraging fashion. The
large crowd in attendance expressed its sincere ap-
proval by applauding vehemently at every oppor-
tunjty, and they all came away with nothing but
praise for the wonderful program.

Maestro Kryl proved himself an undisputed mas-
ter of the musical art. His dynamic conducting was
particularly outstanding, and his solo numbers with
the cornet gave his reputation added strength.

With this unusual concert as a starter, the David-
son music department promises to bring other na-
tionally famous artists to the college campus. To
sponsor such a program, however, is-a tremendous-
ly expensive undertaking. These talented musicians
are~greatly in demand, and consequently must be
paid quite liberally for their services.

I am sure the audience would almost unanimously
agree that Monday night’s concert alone, was well
worth the one dollar and a half price of a series
ticket. So support the Davidson music department,
and at the same time take advantage of a very rare
opportunity for real high-class entertainment, by
hearing the three, and possibly four, remaining con-
certs scheduled for this year.

FRESHMAN SPIRIT....

As has been noted by practically all upperclassmen
on the campus, the spirit shown by the present fresh-
man class is manifestly poor. More breaches of dis-
cipline have been noted this year than at any time
in the past. Many freshmen are failing to co-operate

in the wearing of caps, attending pep meetings, re-
maining in chapel seats, and in other rules.

An increasing leniency with freshmen has long
been the trend, due to the respect of former first-
year-men for rules. We are proud of the fact that
no hazing is necessary at Davidson. Severe forms
of discipline are not needed for those who keep the
rules. They are for use only on those who break
rules, and will doubtless come into use again if regu-
lations are not respected.

A freshman entering Davidson is expected to up-
hold the spirit and traditions of the campus. Com-
pliance with regulations should be looked upon as
a privilege, a courtesy extended to upperclassmen
by the freshman class. Freshman rules here are
few and simple. Obedience to them inconveniences
no one. Disobedience causes discomfort and friction
for all.

The Davidson spirit is unique. Such a reputation
is to be cherished and guarded. Freshman who evade
pep meetings and athletic contests must be entirely
devoid of interest in school affairs. Obviously, such
indifference has no place in Davidson if the tra-
ditional zeal is to survive.

There are definite reasons for wearing freshman
caps. They form a bond between members of the
freshman class. Friendships are more quickly made,
acquaintances sooner formed. They add greatly to
the general spirit of the school. Without caps there
is something lacking in the scheme of things. Any-
one who has been to a school where they are not
in use realizes this fact.

Freshmen should remember that they too will be
upperclassmen in the not-too-distant future. They
will expect the respect of freshmen classes to come.
They themselves will demand certain privileges pe-
culiar to upperclassmen. If they break traditions
now, they cannot expect future classes to keep them.

Remaining in, chapel seats until upperclassmen
have cleared the hall is a matter of courtesy which
should be observed by every man in the class. Ob-
servance of this rule now will give you the right
to expect its continuance in the future.

Upperclassmen admire class spirit, enthusiasm,
and fire in freshmen—but only when it is put to the
right use. It becomes a fine thing when it is em-
ployed to promote school spirit, to foster achieve-
ment, and increase co-operation. It can better be
done without when it is displayed in flauntingness,
prep-schoolishness, and “horsiness.”

Men of the class of '39, we expect and demand
your spirit to be shown, not in shirking from pep
meetings, or defacing buildings with your numerals,
but rather in a willing obedience to rules and a finer
co-operation in upholding the Davidson spirit and

tradition. Wh WL (0)

COLLEGIATE RAMBLINGS

TIGERS GET REAL MASCOT....

At last the Clemson Tigers have a real living em-
blem of their spirit. Some friend presented the col-
lege with a Royal Bengal tiger, full grown and of
no gentle temperament. The beast is eight feet long.
Though Clemson greatly appreciates the spirit be-
hind the gift, the authorities are greatly perplexed
by the problem of finding a suitable location for the
quarters of their prize. Someone has suggested that
he be suspended by his neck from the tower of the
Main Building, but this proposition was rejected. _

Clemson cadets are overjoyed_at the news that the
South Carolina State Fair authorities are going to
admit them to the Clemson-South Carolina football
game, played in Columbia at the fair grounds, abso-
lutely free of charge. One loyal Clemsonite has
placed a bet that Clemson will make more touch-
downs than Carolina will make first downs. A fool
and his money.

FROSH GET NEW DEAL....

The Ring-twmn Phi, that constantly fertile source
of interesting college news from Washington and
Lee University, says that William Wesley “Wee
Willie” Grover, Jr., newly crowned president of the
freshman class is planning a New Deal program for
freshmen, The most important item on the adminis-
tration program seems to be the passing of a rule for-
bidding that the chapel bell be rung for more than an
hour after a football victory. Other objectives of
Prexy Grover’s rule will be the abolishing of “cut-
ting up” on the Washington and Lee campus, a
series of dignified “social events,” and a movement
for ‘More Time for Studies and Less Time on So-
cial Activities.’ Some freshman!

ODD GEORGIA HABITATIONS 6000

Like many other schools the University of Georgia
at Athens is very crowded for rooming accommo-
dations this year. Satisfactory accommodations for
the overflow have been found in near-by barns; a
deserted cannery, and sundry other buildings.
Thirty-two of the poor, homeless students have
taken up their abode in the cannery amid the boilers,
deserted cans, and trash. They say they will be all
right until the weather, gets cold.

DAVIDSON
off the
RECORD

By HAROLD SUGG

IDLE CONJECTURES
UPON NOTHING

It is interesting to feel the poignant
rise of spirit on the day of the game. In-
tangible, it is like a globe fed by 650
invisible wires from the Student Body
that burns brighter with the collective
rise of electric excitement. First tremors
are felt at chapel. At dinner, there are
guests, girls. After dinner, the radios
start the ballyhoo with rousing college
songs and. opening broadcasts of big
eastern games. Cars streaming in, the
hurry, the hubbub: all gather into one
big tension that works itself out in the
game. And after a game like the last one,
instead of the feeling of satisfied exhaus-
tion, the spirit was blunted and frustrate,
like a parachute that failed to open or a
firecracker that didn’t go off.

OBSERVATIONS

The anomalous class of ’'39:

Will wear caps backwards, shine
all over the campus, climb narrow
ladders in the chill winds that blow
around the water tank, inscribe
the ignoble '39 thereon, berate the
campus and yet will not appear at
the time-h ed Pep Meeting for
fear of immodest exposure of their
shirt-tails.
James Oldjohn, Senior, arose in the
morning as usual, Contrary to his usual
habit he neither shaved, brushed, slicked
or wore a coat. Had J, O., Senior, become
atavistic or rebellious? No, it was ODK
tap day and he wanted to be sure to be
surprised When tapped.

MUSINGS

Those of you who were not ‘so
unfortunate as to have to work on
The Davidsonian heard the Kryll
Band. Columnist slipped away for
a while and heard most of a ma-
jestic program. Prose and Poetry
are limited, for words have mean-
ing, but music has no limit and one
theme is boundless in licat
Seldom before this critical audience can

a minister receive the acclamation that
Peter Marshall. Returning,
might say, by popular demand, the very
challenging of his message grips the stu-
dent. The fire and hope of him accentu-
ates itself from the drabness that often
clouds other messages. Which gives us
occasion to state our long born inquiry:
Is there a course in the Seminaries
whereby one learns to preach sadly, in
wailing tones?

THE CARNIVAL OF CHARLOTTE

About half of the good boys
travelled over expecting to see a
fair and, altho chagrined at finding
no agricultural exhibits, stayed on
and contented themselves with the
merry-go-round, cotton candy and
walking canes. Martin Barnette
had his camera along to spot good
pictures for the Annual. Roy Big-
ham had his date along. Salty Pet-
ers ought to run a show and Jim
Knox ought to look where he is
going. Skinny Stevens got in free
by virtue of his Schenectady Bark-
ers voice.

VOX POP

has one

Even now hath this calumnist reaped
his harvest. Some archfiend sends this to
the “Column which disgraces the edi-
torial. page :”

“IF you of mine weren’t such a

: good bud,

I'd dunk your face into a puddle
of mud,

You four-eyed snooper, Harold
Sludd.”’

Such is the life of a calumnist. Another
disgruntled reader suggests that I change
the name to “Sugg off His Nut.” Well,
I don't care what you column.

ROMEOS AND LOCHINVARS

Midge Verble received a letter that
reads thusly: ‘We are two girls lone-
some for a pen pal. We weigh 118 each,
one blond, the other brunette, and we
both have enuff boy friends to get along.”
This was all very fine but the letter was
addressed to “Miss Ira Verble, David-
son, N. C.” :

We hear of a SPE Lochinvar who
discourages SPE frosh social proclivities
by continual snaking and who Sunday
was brought his due by the whole snak-
ing SPE Fraternity. “Broadway Rob-
bery, we call it,” say the SPE pledge
group in unison.

Thomas Jokong Chang, of China,
showed the way to the rest of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania students last year.
He took two degrees and led all his
classes,

John Germ is interested in bacteriology.
He’s written Ohio State University for
information relative to a course in that
subject.

AROUND WASHINGTON

Mr. Serwer, the regular Washington
correspondent of The Davidsonian and
the Associated Collegiate Press, this
week writes from Birmingham, Ala.,
where he is spending a portion of his
vacation,

By ARNOLD SERWER

Birmingham, Ala—In about two more
weeks this column will carry a Washing-
ton dateline again, and- concern itself
once more with bureaus and officeholders,
programs and the people behind them,
but in the interim, while moving about
the South, 1 am relaxing enough to per-
mit myself the pleasure of doing a piece
now and then about stray subjects, The
stray subject this time is the football
game 1 saw played. here yesterday, be-
tween Auburn and the University of
Tennessee, the first southern game | have
ever witnessed.

It was an excellent game, but never
mind that. What interests me is that the
events of the afternoon did not come
up to expectations, 1 expected entirely
different behaviour on the part of the
fans.

Having seen a number of games in the
north, played between southern and north-
ern teams, at which seventeen southern
rooters, a tiny little patch in a mass of
home team supporters, usually outyelled
all the rooters for the home team, hav-
ing met in my time a great many high
spirited southern gentlemen, the most
fragile of whom at any sort of athletic
contest could drown out a calliope. 1 was
frankly disappointed by the sustained
periods of silence and by the mild bursts
of cheering that came from the stands
during the game.

Partisanship, I had thought previously,
niust be even more pronounced at south-
ern games than northern ones. 1 have
heard alumni of southern colleges talk
about games played in the dim past, great
historic games that they attended. And
they spoke of them in a tense manner,
with a repressed fervor that brought back
faint echoes of mighty cheers that rolled
out from the stands when Bancroft Bo-
gie, of the Bama Bogies, tore off a 70-
yard run only ot be brought down at last
on the five-yard line by a peanut vender,
who later turned out to be Buell Bogie,
of the Arkansas Bogies, own kin but
lifelong enemies of the Bama Bogies.

Sowehow, I thought, when southern
rooters cheered their men on in some un-
canny fashion they got a warlike note

jinto their cheers, a blare as of bugles.

At such a moment, I thought, if you
shut your eyes you might easily be fooled
into thinking it was the cheer that rose
up from Pickett’s men when they swept
forward toward the Union lines at Get-
tysburg.

But, if the Auburn-Tennessee game is
a fair sample, it is not like that at all.
For*two and a half hours I failed to
hear a solitary rebel yell. No one got up
and let out so much as a single, irrele-
vant, piercing “Ya-hoooo!” People sat
around and looked properly mournful,
as ‘Tennessee made large decisive gains
and collected two touchdowns inside of
five minutes. vee

And partisanship, bitter partisanship,
was at a low ebb. Directly in back of me
sat two Auburn fans, one drunk and the
othr sober. Next to them sat two Ten-
nessee rooters, and here too, one of them
was drunk and the other sober. Did they
call the referee a robber and a buzzard
when he made a decision adverse to their
team? They did not. They pointed out to
the opposing rooters the excellence of
the referee’s eyesight and the fine calibre
of his judgment.

The Auburn two held their heads in
their hands gloomily, and freely admit-
ted to the Tennesseans that Tennessee
was the superior team. The Tennessee
supporters denied it stoutly and took
pains to explain that their team had had
the breaks and that was all there was to
it. The place reeked of good sportsman-
ship. The Auburn men began to applaud
politely for Tennessee whenever their
team put a difficult play over success-
fully. The Tennesseans began to look
embarrassed arid unhappy whenever their
players broke through Auburn’s line, as
if fearful that such behaviour on the part
of their team would break up what looked
like the beginning of a beautiful friend-
ship among the four of them in the
stands. .

In front of me there was an interestin,
example of optimism at war with pessi-
mism, of faith struggling with reality,
in the person of an Auburn rooter who
was one of the few who ever raised his
voice independently to spur his team on.

“Hold ’em Auburn!” he would yell,
when Auburn was losing ground.

And sotto voce he would add gloom-
ily, “To ten touchdowns!”

“Watch ’em make them first downs,”
he cried at another point.

And sotto voce, “If they don’t drop the
ball.”

“Let's make a slight touchdown, Au-
burn,” he bellowed toward the end of the
game.

“And Tennessee will make three of
em,” he mumbled unhappily.

There were only two fistfights in the
stands during the game. This is far few-
er than one finds starting during the
course of games in the north and the
Middle West. Moreover, no inebriate ap-
peared before the stands between halves,
as is customary in other sections of the
country during football games, and of-
fered to lead cheers for the crowd or to
buy drinks for all the Smiths present.

I am glad to say, however, that several
times during the game someone~ an=—
nounced over the stadium sound ampli-
fier that a Mr. O’Toole was wanted at
Gate One. Usually it is a Mr. Chop-
clowsky that is wanted, but at the Auburn
game Mr. O’Toole was in demand. They
called for him several times, and either
they found him or they gave it up as a
bad job, because finally they stopped ask-
ng for him. ,

Even when Mr. O'Toole was being
summoned from whatever place he was
sulking in, the crowd showed lack of
spirit. Not a single waggish remark was
made about Mr. O'Toole, about his wife
or the G-Men wanting him, Yes, the
crowd definitely lacked color.

“Compare The NEws”

From DAVIDSONIANS
-@ e e of Years Gone By

FIVE YEARS AGO

Wildcats will meet V. M. I. Saturday
morning in Lexington. . , Twelve under-
graduates and five alumni to try for
Rhodes Scholarship. . . Junior class wins
stunt night award. . . O, D. K. will ob-
serve annual tap day November. 4th. . .
G, P. Pardington of Junior .class wins
fourth Atwater Kent radio contest. . .
Mr. Harry Rimmer speaks on “The Re-
lation of Science to Religion”, . . Seven
men are issued Le Cercle Francais bids.
... Mr. and Mrs. Pierre Pelletier and
their players to present “The Merchant
of Venice’. . . Phi Beta Kappa issues
eleven bids. . . V. P. I. downs Wildcats
20-19. . . Ten wrestlers answer first call
for practice. Davidson Freshmen battle
Rutherford to tie of 6-6... Alumni from
thirteen states and forty-five classes pres-
ent at Home-coming. ; Cake race
planned for Freshmen November 7th.

TEN YEARS AGO

Glee club sponsors stunt night Satur-
day at Shearer Hall... Furman defeats
Davidson in close game with score of
7-0... Annual Y.M.C.A. meeting is con-
ducted by Dr. Charles F. Myers of
Greensboro, . . Four fraternities plan to
construct houses on Concord Street. . .
Wildcats to meet State Wolfpack Satur-
day. . . This is the annual Home-coming
edition of “The Davidsonian”. . . Stu-
dents vote to alter constitution so as to
allow vote of student body to override
that of Student Council. . . Students plan
to raise two hundred dollars for Page
Memorial, which is to be erected shortly
. . . Holiday to be granted: for Home-
coming. . . Tennis players defeat Char-
lotte Country Club team. Dr. Frazier
Hood is spending the winter in Europe.

He is now in Paris. .. R.O.T.C. plans
to have dress parade Saturday morning.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

Juniors and Seniors open class_basket-
ball competition. . . Wildcats down Rich-
mond University 7-0. . . Salisbury golfers
win from Davidson team. . . R.O.T.C.
unit receives additional equipment.
Tennis players for team selected. . .
Carolina Freshmen fall before Wildkit-
tens 10-0. . . The Davidsonian editor
speaks at Rock Hill. . . St. Claire Sisters
to present program Monday night at
Shearer Hall... Dr. C. M. Richards de-
livers Sunday morning address. .. Many
candidates out for Glee Club. . . Wild-
cats to meet Citadel Bulldogs Saturday.

.. J. Wilson Smith speaks to Y.M.C.A.
men. .. R.O.T.C. unit plans to have com-
petitive contests in drilling and inspec-
tion this week. . . Captain Hearn to re-
ceive promotion soon.

QUERY DEPARTMENT

Why did The Duke Chronicle an-
nounce the results of the Duke-Auburn
fracas by an extra giving the score in
scare headlines? Perhaps a gentle dig
at azure imps football squad, what?

*PUN OUR WORD

Did you hear of the Tulane meanie
who, peeved at his girl, grew a mous-
tache? Now every time they kill she gets
down in the mouth. . . And even the
bricklayer got where he is by hod work.

TOTAL DISABILITY
College Man—Won't you give a poor
cripple a lift?
Tourist—In what way are you crippled.
You look healthy enough to me.
College Man—Financially !
—Ring-Tum-Phi.

