Should We Reconsider...

The recent address by Mr. John Crowe Ran-
som has made many wonder if perhaps the
South did not fall heir to, at least, no unmixed
blessing whten she hastened to follow the ex-
ample of the North in providing herself with
ali the comiorts of civilization via the fool-
proqt “machine age.” its philosophy, and its
tools.

The Davidsonian

- Founded By the Class of 1913

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

From the very earliest times -or at least so
we have been instinctively believing since we
have been old enough to take any interest in
the matter at all the region which we know
as the “South” has had its particular variety
‘of civilization winnowed and sifted until it has
taken on the aspect of something, if not in it-
selt unique. still peculiarly adapted to the
people that lived in that portion of the Amer-
ican Continent, and by so much unadaptable
and unappreciated by the other “sections” of
people ia Gus country. That manner of liv-
ing. or attitude toward lite and living (for if
one thing is certain, it is that those qualities
we have in mind when we speak of the ‘life
in the Old South’ are essentially not to be
trotted out like any prize winning mare and
pirouetted around, are indeed rather c¢iusive

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

Sig ECCS
nee, ESS
eEpe

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, ander the act of March 3rd, 1879

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be im the hands of Managing Fuditors by $:0) o'tlock
po om., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all
communications intended jor pubbecation must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN ._... — .....-2--22-.----.-
R. P. MORROW, Jr. _.--------_--- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jim Morton. ..- -Managing Editor} when we most want to pin them down)—

How Fl OvERTON. qanaging paver anyone of a number of phrases migat do has
AROLD  SUGG. ~~ _.banaying Editor : cates

Davuonp Taner... Vanaging Fditor | NOW been tound by some thinking men to be

Joux Winn ---- Managing Editor pethaps not joredoomed to absolute extinc-

Harry Kuykenpaie- .-..Sports Editor | tion nor, on the other hand, do they believe it

Martin RarNnett_ ----<lysociate Editor) is doomed because of an inherent fault that is

panvey, Grass. Seteiebiaienenl jssociale Baier ‘exposed’ by the wonder-working industrial
AUL aRLAN LL. == stssociale isdilor|)

‘Tom MarcCuANT.W.~--. wlssociate Editor | 8" oT

Joun. WALKER_-~--------.--~<lssociate Editor The group that has expressed itself in no

uncertain terms about the advisability of con-

BUSINESS STAFF tinuing the era of the small farmer, especially

Cuarius Mauze,  ._--- Circulation Manager}as this “vanishing American” is found in the
put pore wette tee Circulation. sianuger Sout, dts last home, is known as de Agrar-
Bon VANCE---. Circulation Manager| . ws iY . .
Iloxe Rorinson..-..-----ldwertising Manager ians. They are shy of “isms” but tot be
Bink Elite. 2-2 eee Collection. Manager | Cause they have some new panacea, some
Bie Dyert elysistant: Business Manager|cure-ail tor the economic ills (vat dance mer-

rily over the eroded hills and dales of the
Southiand like strange remnants of hangovers.
No. tor anyone with half an eve can spell it
for himself: a-g r-a-t i-a-n-i-s-m, In, England)

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1936

heart maketh a-chece{ul_countenanee > but by
sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken, Prov. J5:13

A omerry

say it’s all the same ditierénce.
-does it all promise to get us?
For those of you who did not read the re-
port of Professor John Crowe Ransom's
speech iast Tuesday week in the paper or hear
the tecture, this is a brief statement of the sit-
uation we are facing: The farmer has been ex-
ploited ever since the Wart Lictween the States
—we mean the Southern farmer now particu-
larly—by the capitalists who have fluttered
around the dazzling flame of industrialism
rihat has tlared high in the Fast, and have
drunk up all the gain they could get—oh, very
wisely they got it from that section (and
the great Souchwestern oii fields have oblig-
jingly given their all in the cause, too); now
thev look for new worlds to conquér, and im-

But where

Sincerest sympathy is extended to Rex J
Beach in the recent death of his mother.

Paragraphics....

The wooden sidewalks put down in the front.
ot Chambers Building were a big help during
the terrible mess which resulted from melt-
ing snow.

-

eo # #

North and South dormitories couid have
used some also. They were practically Vene-
tianized by the bad weather.

, * ¢

_ The wresding team is apparently on the
high road to another state championship. Duke
was the tirsi Hig Five victim, and they have
«reputedly the best in the conierence, except-
ing Davidson. North Carolina State, however,
is always good in this department.
1

for the plucking. Capital trickles, then over-
tlows into the South. For some time thesc
men. there’are crusading ladies too—are busy
making the South aware of the benefits of
civilization “a la” industtialism.

Mr. Hobart, supesvatendent of bwildings and| Finally it conies throvigh to the Southerner’s
grounds. promises two more snows before | alert ming that such rich rewards are not en-
winter ends. He bases his forecast on the | ailed to these ‘furriners' and their heirs in
iact that there are always as many snows | perpetuity, that in reality there is no good
during the winter as there were fogs in the} reason .why, ii everybody is going to make
preceding August. There were six fogs, there-| money by exploiting the ‘natives,’ they should
fore, we show's expect two more snows this noi be the receivers for this valuable property
winter, having had only four thus far. as well as any dam’ Yankee that ever lived.
* * nd because the Yankee sct an admirable

-The—splendid. message—of—Dr. Jordan last}record for tharough-going and systematic
Sunday night seemed to awaken his hearers |“milking.”. and beeause: no Yankee can outdo
both spiritually and physically. It was one of ja Southerner, these domestic gentlemen pro-
the best in the unusual series of inspiring Sun-|cecd further to educate the people by develop-
day night sermons, ing ‘Southern industries run by Southerners’
—-a phrase which is often heard and is no
. doubt provocative of patriotic sentiments. The
Suggestions coos Southerner intends to show the Yankee some-

We would like to call attention to a small| thing before he gets through, too.
matter which has recently occasioned no little
inconvenience to a large number of students.
WHY 1S THE BOOK-STORE NOT OPEN
LONGER, or at least at more convenient
times?

x #

Ed *

A new course in marriage at Syracuse Uni-
versity will enroll 130 students this semester,
with 415 on the waiting list.

Under the present system it is entirely pos-
sible for a student to be on class, in lab, en-
gaged in N. Y. A. work, or otherwise em-
ployed during the whole time that the college
book store is open. Naturally, we can not ex-
pect the faculty to wait until students can
find time to visit the store and buy books, even
when they are new ones with no second-
handed ones available.

With the beginning of the second semester,
both professors and students suffered unnec-
essary delay because in many cases the under-
graduates were actually unable to secure _the
needed text-books promptly. Now, of course,
it is too late to do anything about it. We
do not feel it necessary or advisable for the
book store to remain open at all hours for the| would be met more adequately if, as several
rest of the year. students have suggested, these books and sup-

But why not profit from past experience.| plies were sold through the Students’ Store.
Income from the sale of texts and schoo! sup- ° ~~ —D. T.

Stanford University regulations keep the
nearest bar five miles from student beer-
drinkers.

The pioncer spirit is not yet dead in New
England. Sixty-five co-eds are out for the
rifle team at the University of Vermont.

Go ahead and sleep. A CCNY professor of

philosophy is quoted as saying those who sleep
in class learn more.

plies goes to the ‘“Societas Fratrum” loan fund:
Income for this worthy cause would certainly
be increased and the need of the student, body

it's the doetrine of: distributism. We might |...

mediately tind the South to be a plum ripe?

{the tongue wagging of its inhabi-

~ DAVIDSON
. OFF THE

RECORD

' -
oy
4

ye

a

by HAROLD SUGG
PROM OLD CANNON

Oiten it is the necessity tor this |

penster to work himself up in the
ticklish agonies of bringing forth
a little wit and satire. But seldom
is it his pleasure to receive such
_a_ deliciously biting bit of humor
as is herein printed, a pleasure so
neute and a literary letter so ad-
mired that the usual column gab is
relegatt? to Page Six, Column One.
Ik is the reply of one of “them
Vankees,” about whom he pondered
last week.

DEAR SUGG,

I read with interest your excel-
lent assault on the aborigines who
rit above Virginia, and aim strict-
ly in accord with your sentiment
that something must be done about
this menace to Dixie-Land tran-
quility. We are supported by the
Daughters of the Confederacy, the
Rotary Club of Cornelius, the Stars
and Bars Boys (Chapter Three)
and Old Black Joc. Some further
propaganda follows :

Cheese auy. Toity Toid, cheeseus,
Nu Choisey. As You have attempted
to set down the southern reaction
to northern enunciation allow me to
present four phrases—evolved in the
heaes of Struggling wit— which
our Mason-Dixoner hurls in’ the
ry teeth of the helpless Yank.
His originality is apparent and his
variety is profuse. He can growl

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1936 .

By DAYMOND TURNER

Ah There, Mr. Sugg! ...

When a columnist on the Detroit
university news sheet received .a
corrected English) .exam marked
“EF from his professor, he found
this notation on the bottom: “Why
not use this in your column?”
‘Kindly Omit—’ ...

As a result of action of the Pan-
Hellenic Council, fraternity men at
‘Georgia are no longer expected to
furnish carsages for their dates un-
less sponsoring a formal dance. {ff
a dance is sorority sponsored. only
tnembers of the sorority are per-
mitted to wear the cherished decor-
ation.

¢* ¢ ¢
‘Speak For Yourself, John’...
“We note that the Wake Forest

paper is singing praises of A. P. God-
win, Jr, student leader and feartess
columnist, More power to him, the
Newspapers of America can use men
who aren't afraid of whose toes they
step on. The main function of a
newspaper is to point out faults and
bring reform.”"—A ppalachian.
¢- ¢ ¢

Blessing in Disguise ...

Six or seven hours sleep is like a
paper dotlar in’ a blind man’s cup.
He cant see it, but it does him a
tot of good.—Afaroon.

¢- ¢ ¢
‘— Begins at Home’...

Profits accruing from Tulane uni-
versily's annual Mardi “Gras Hop
will go to a student aid fund. “Prof-
its will be available to any student
proving, himself worthy and_in_ need
of assistance. Administration of the
fund wwill be under the direction of
the university,” says the //illabaloo
in urging attendance.

By ARNOLD SERWER
(-lssociated Collegiate Press
Correspondent)
Washington.—Col, Frank Knox,

chéese guy as a salutation every
day and still cackle over the ingen-
uity of his abortive humor. And
it he hag mever been past Wash-
ingion there is no power on earth
which can halt his fertile imagina-
tion. le may even get to the point
where he can tilt his hat, twist his
sunburned southern ~physiognomy
into a sneer, whsiper Nu Choisey
hoarsely from the corner of his
mouth and strut off highly _satis-
fied. The Yank realizes the poverty
of northern linguistic endeavors is
due to a total lack, of educational
facilities. He has only Harvard,
Yale and Princeton to fall back on
id contrast to the extensive and
well recognized university centers
developed in the Old South.

In dancing, as in the other gentle
arts, the Yank must needs: sit back
and observe Southern mastery. He
has no choice but to admit that
there is nothing so divinely grace-
ful, daintily syIph-like, strikingly
thythmatic as the “shag.” Or if he
ever has the privilege to attend a
square daiiceé, done in the good old
Tar Heel style, he realizes that he
has seen the final Southern tribute
to the Muse Terpsichore.

Intense pride of state is my solu-
ion for the Southern aptitude to
satirize the Yank and make him
the butt of his rural imprecations.
Some have hinted that it might be
a bad case of inferiority complex
and subsequent resent arising from
Northern prosperity or victory in
a rebellion which occurred around
t861. The same type of resentment’
is felt by'a farmer toward the bank-
er who loans him money, or by a
country cousin toward his city rel-
atives. This complex is worked
out by asperstions on Northern
custom, habit, dress, and speech, or
hy other harmless and childish
means. But far be it from to ridi-
cule the extremes to which a South-
erner’s love of homeland can carry
him. T think he is to be respected
and admired for being able to work
himself into a lather over a strip
of barren Utopia which has noth-
ing to bolster it but tradition and

tants,

Intellectually, the blue — blood
Southerners sneer at the Yankee.
Although the Southerner has no
theatre of his own, few authors of
merit, despises the Opera and Sym-
phonic Concert, rarely sees a play—
and doesn't like a good one if he
should see it—disowns any poetry
sbut Edgar Guest's, has an obnox-
ious taste in cinema, a vast con-
tempt ior. classical music, and ridi-
cules any genius whose name con-
lains more than two syllables, he
innately or -perhaps, inanely —
feels that his culture is superior.

One more thing oppresses me,
Sugg, old rebel. Is the phrase
blank Yank written as a single
word: or as two? I know there are

publisher of The Chicago Daily News
and a leading possibility for the Re-
publican presidential nomination, in
answering the charge of Edward Fi-
tene, philanthropist and one-time Bos-
ton department store owner, that “The
Interests” were dictating the anti-
Roosevelt and anti - administration
policy of leading newspapers through-

two A's in it—as in Appomatox —
but ['m not quite positive about
the finer details.
Keep arter them thar Yankees!
—Robert E. Lee Haake.

DEAR ARTHUR,

(We know you're only. fooling
about the “Rabert 12 Lee part, fdr
only avfewowettks-ago one of-your
higher and more cultured. schools
refused a bust of the General on
xrounds of — treasow, immorality,
unconstitutionality « and whatnot.)
But as Lsaid before, -Dear Art :—

You must pardon my sublime ob-
liviousness to the cultural and edu-
cational. institutions inside the Ma-
son-Dixon corral. You see, we
couldn't understand why so many
of you boys were abandoning the
place, and just naturally jumped to
a conclusion. It is just another of
those simple-minded Southern ways

of reasoning. But now that you
shave shown us the error in our
Ways, we won't be so rash next

time. Perhaps it’s just the stiff
competition up there. Survival of
the fittest, you know? Perhaps the
‘Yauk is fist) sliinniiig. Or per-
haps (remember that rebellion?) he
is just a glutton for punishment.

I must have been too assuming
in last week's tirade. After all, we
haven't produced any William Loyd
Garrisons or mortuary. Hearsts,
and not having any islands to build
cities around we must apologize for
our lack of aristoercy. And owing
our financial heritage (remember
those old time carpetbaggers?, it
is, as you say, only natural that we
owe our cultural heritage (Eddie
Guest, born in England, educated
in Detroit public schools and since
1895 connected with The Detroit
Free Press). So the Southerner
abjectly proclaims Northern liter-
ary superiority. Why how could we
get along without gangster stories
and them moll poems we read
about? And Tor linguistics, the Yan-
kee can say “Yassuh, we ‘uns is sho
gwine down yander” without any
practice at all. So iteseems..

So Arthur, you got us all wrong.
We like the Yank> especially - his
unassuming congenial manner, But
about that last paragraph, you
wouldn't believe it, but we are so
backward down here that I was 16
years. old before I tearned damYank
was two words.

Yours for States Rights,

U. S. Scott McClellan Burnside
——Hlooker Mead Grant Sugg.

Around Washington

STOLEN .THUNDER

‘I'd Walk a Mile for a—’...

“With a ruler in hand and a bit of
inquisitiveness in the other, we find
the following trivia: the cigarettes
smoked by the,Emory boys and girls
in a month would reach if (laid) end
to end, 3.2 miles. Just think of three
and two-tenths miles of | Luckies,
Camels, Chesterfields, etc. Even the
ducks would -reach a mile !—Emory
litheel, ye

¢* ¢
Vicious Vocabulary ee

One of the Brothers was quizzing a
sophomore pledge, and in the course
of ‘the ordeal he contradicted him-
self. .

“That sounds like a delicate falsi-
fication to me’, said the Brother.

“Oh, no.” said the excitedy non-
plussed pledge. “Just malefaction.”—
Daily Tar Heel.

¢¢ ¢
On With the Show ...

“News item: The various parts of
an alleged columnist were found ly-
Ling around and around in between
the several machines on the first, floor
of the enginecring building. Hence-
forth this column will be miscon-
ducted by one John Cottler.”"—--lkron
Buchielite.

¢- ¢
Morning After...

This squetches them: Prof.: You
missed my class yesterday ?

You: Why, no, I didn’t. Not in the
least... And then there was the
boy who called-his “hinges” because
she was something to adore.—Flastings
Collegian.

¢ ¢
‘Purple Cow?’ ...
I've never seen a cord of wood,

I hope [ never saw one;
But | can tell you—this is good—

Vd rather see than saw one.

—Reflector.

out the country, claims that the turn-
ing of Washington newsmen away
irom the New Deal policics and their
growing abhorrence of all Roosevelt's
works is the factor which has caused
the press attacks upon the New Deal.
The New York Herald-Tribune, one
of the most vitriolic critics of the
administration, in an editorial backs
up the Knox statement,, speaking of
the nausea induced among Washing-
ton. newspapermen by the trend of
, Roosevelt's policies.

This is so much applesauce. First
of all, the ordinary columns of Wash-
ington news sent to the home papers
by the rank and file newsmen here
have not been particularly anti-New
Deal. It has been the editorial pages
of the papers that have been pound-
ing away at the Roosevelt policies.
Added to this has been the fre-
quently opinionated work of the jour-
nalistic big shots, the special writers
and cotumnists, whose columns, be-
cause of the weight their names car-
ry, must obviously not disagree
sharply with the’ editorials.

The workaday newspapermen here
are still a long way from being anti-
Roosevelt. The personal opinions of
many of them do not jibe at all with
the editorial stands7bf their respec-
tive papers concerning Roosevelt.
Even assuming that no reporter here
ever has had it brought home to him,
either by an edict: from his editor, a
hint or in any other direct manner;
that his work will be appreciated more
if he goes out and digs up a few good
stories about boondoggling, govern-
mental extravagance, and administra-
tive incompetence, still what reporter
is unaware of his paper's editorial
policy regarding the New Deal? And
what reporter is going to, be fool-
hardy enough not to subordinate his
impressions to that of his paper’s?

The news that newspapers take
their cue as to policy concerning the
New Deal from the reactions of their
Washingt correspondents is a new
slant’ en the relation of the reporter
and the publisher. The tail is wag-
ging the dog. if Col. Knox’s claim is
true. In spite of the impartial atti-
tude of Cot. McCormick of The Chi-
cago Tribune, Ogden Reid. of The
Herald-Tribune, Mr. Hearst and Mr.
Paul Block, it seems that their minds
were changed for them by the “grow-
ing revulsion” of their Washington
correspondents to the New Deal, so
that now, almost to their sorrow, they
find themselves attacking it. No one
here suspected that the average news-
paperman, whose influence in the past
has usually not been strong enough
with the publisher of his sheet to pro-
mote a five dollar raise, has had so
much influence in making up the pub-
lisher’s mind for him on national
questions,

On the other. hand the Fileno
charge that “interests” have used the
newspapers against the New Deal
heeds a great deal of qualification.
It is unlikely that deals of any sort
between papers and ‘the “Interests”
have been made. What has most
likely happened is that the publishers

OOCOOCEDEOHOOSO SOS OOOOOSSEOOOSOOOOOD

THIS
COLLEGIATE
WORLD.....

Seveccccesssesesesesosssessesoosees

(By vlssociated Collegiate Press)

An excellent piece of journalism
got into the college press this last
week. It ‘was an interview by
Samuel Mintz, University of Wis-
consin, with the late Huey P. Long.

Mintz’ story, gave an idea of
Long's: tremendous bustling, hectic,
overflowing energy.

Excerpt:

A door flew open, Huey’s head
popped out. A “come on in boy!”
went rumbling down the hall.

“lim a college student.” [ got
ho further. ’

“I “know
run one.”

“What do you think should be
taught in college?”

“Arithmetic. That's all. Plain and
simple arithmetic. You've got to
show the boys that there's some-
thing wrong in nine hundred and
ninety-nine hawgs being fed on’ one
portion of hawg feed and one hawg
being fed on nine hundred and
ninety-nine portions of hawg feed.

“What you've got to do boy is
read.” He jumped out of his chair,
almost overturning his desk. He
elbowed a very pretty secretary
out of the way. “TH give you some
real literature. Ever hear about
the Share the Wealth idea?” _

Suddenly he left me, He ran in-
to an adjoining room, I turned to
go. “Where are you going?” Mr.
Long was back. “Did you say you
were a college student? Well, listen
to me: Don't you grow into a col-
lege professor and become a brain-
truster. Do you hear?”

all about colleges. I

Governor Martin L. Davey of
Ohio has been rather rough on the
state allottments of funds to Ohio
State University. As a result, an
old epigram is being passed about
on -the*campus in this new form:
“Don't put off until tomorrow what
you can do to Davey.”

Compare the

NEWS

From Davidsonians
of Years Gone By

ereccceseseccososos
Poocvevoooesese

FIVE YEARS AGO

Dr. J. H. Menderlite of Gastonia
gives a talk at vespers Sunday, tak-
ing as his subject, Fidelity . . . Dr.
Ira A. Lambeth, former president of
Ward Belmont College speaks here
on Prohibition-> Four men re-
ceive promotibns in the R. O. T. C.
Batallion. Those honored were Rusk,
Bird, McCutchan and Kraemer... .
The Senior house party will be held
Feb. 21... A Radio..Club..was. ree
cently organized here by those in-
terested in this field . Captain
Cochran talks to the Quadranglers
Club on the Philippines . . . Wild-
cats defeat Elon 39—30, and Lenoir,
46—19 .. . ‘Cat wrestlers defeat. State
17—13 . . . Seven students and one
faculty member are initiated into
Seabbard and Blade.
TEN YEARS AGO

Sixty-eight men report’ for spring

football practice The Senior
oratorical contest will be held next
week . .. The Hlon. J. Stitt Wilson

of California, will give a series of
chapel talks to Davidson students this
week-end .. . Davidson Quintet will

.meet Guilford Saturday night .

Wake Forest freshmen conquer Kit-
tens, 32-23, in a listless er,
R. O. T. C. rifle team will Be selected
this week . ... Davidson defeats Con-
cord 48-15 in the first game after
Exams Plans for commence-
ment are going forward.

FIFTEEN YEARS AGO

The basketball team swamps Guil-
ford and N. C. State... 0. D. K
initiates three alumni. Those hon-
ored were Coaches H. M. Grey and
Fred Hengevekt and Dr. W. T.
Thompson of Richmond, Va. ... Rev.
J. W. Moore speaks at vespers .. .
Lieutenant M. H. Ellis arrives at
Davidson to take up his duties as
R. O. T. C. instructor. David-
son defeated by Charlotté Y. M. C.
A., 32-24,

TWENTY YEARS AGO

— Juniors defeat the Séphs in Class
football . . . ‘Junior Speaking plans
completed . . . Charlotte Y. M. C.

A. and Guilford fall before the Wild-
cat attack.

eee!
feel that their future is bound up
with big business more than it is with
the beneficiaries of Rooseveltian poli-
cies. No single. advertiser influences
them, but their dependence on the
whole body of advertisers undoubtedly
does. al
—

Wealth is more equitably distrib-
uted am6ng married men than
among bachelors, says 4 recent sur-
vey.

|
