w

The Davbidsonian |

Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Disest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

. Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

Le

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina. under the act of March Sed, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock
Pp. m._Monday. Letters—to the Editor are welcome, but all
communications intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr. _.---2.-.----- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jin’ Mortonxe..---~- “led Managing Editor
Howey Overton .-- Managing ‘Editor
Haroto Svucc-- _--Managing Editor
DayMonD TURNER- _.--Alanaging Editor

Joun Winn... .---Managing Editor
Harry KUYKENDALL ...-Sports Editor
Martin Barnett. .--Associate Editor

Harvey Gtass.. !:sociate Editor

Paut Harvan..
Tom
Joux Wacker-. —----.

...4ssociate Editor
caneee Associate Editor
..--elssociate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Cuarces, MAvze_.--------_Circwlation.. Manager

Bos *Vance---- _-Circulation Masiager
Hoke Ronrnson_ Advertising Manager
Bit Hittl---- 2-2 -ee Collection, Manager
Birt Dyerve__-_--. Assistant Business Afanager

WEDNESDAY, MARCHE 11, 1936

Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger
resicth in the bosom of fools, Eccles. 7:9.

*

Paragraphics....

Congratulations to Gene Vogler, who ‘is the
newly elected cheer leader. Thais is a very im-
portant position at Davidson and a very worthy
man has been chosen to succeed Joe Dees, who
did an excellent job, himself.

* * Ok

Chewing the tag is as mentally iatal to some
college students as it was to the ancient pig. which,
historical legends tell us, died while gnawing on
ahe rags irom the body of. a black-death victim.

* * * *

Congratulations to “Teeny” Lafferty. He was
elected yesterday to the office of first vice-presi-
dent of the student body for the ensuing school
year. Another very wise choice by the students.

. . °

°

Quiet Please....

Several months ago the ‘student body voted
an amendment to the constitution, which provided
for the elimination of consistently noisy students.
Since then a considerable amount of disturbance
has heen done away with, However, complaints
can still he heard irom certain quarters that bois-
terous students make it almost impossible to study
in these localities.

Whether the tontinued noisiness is due to the
failure of some students to remember their access
to the student couneil as a means of disciplining
these persistent pests, or whether it is because the
students feel that reporting the malicious indulz-
ers would be a futile step. is not possible to say
just now. ‘Yt may te aceorded to an entirely
different reason, but whatever the fundamental
cause may be. the student body may be emply
assured that the couneit will take measures to
preserve quiet conditions ior every student who
wishes to study.

Many students criticize the anti noise amend-

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1936

Take Exercise....

Only last week a prominent Wildcat sup-
porter was heard to say “some of Davidson's
best athletes never come out.”” Being familiar
with many of the boys on this campus, that
individual practically “hit the nail on the
head.”.

Taies are often told now. and with some
degree of truthiutness, of how certain boys
went out for football, track, and other sports

fulfill some wager made in one of our “bull
sessions.’ However, there are many on our

campus now who don't even pay athletics that

‘|nfuch attention, Blany of Davidson's greatcst

Stars on the athletic field had never tried their
abilities until they came here. Yet they made
All-State seleetions. There are a great many
stars on the campus who do not realize what
they can do. They need to find themselves.
Intramurals are a big help to these men.
There is stilt another group here who have
made good in prep or high school sports and
know they have the goods, yet do not care to
help themsszives or Davidson aiong this line.
Perhaps they are taking djffieult. courses and
have no time’ The usual case of this kind,
however, results an better grades and -better
health when the individual adopts a more bal-
aneed schedule. [1 vou're not out for track,
golf, or tennis, give ita ory. Rest assured that
you will feel much better if you engage in
some form of daily exercise. ©  —H.L.K.

Italian Universities....

By SENON E. HUMPHREYS
(for slssociated Collegiate Press)

a

Italy, Mother of Uaersities, bids her own
universities awaken and reassure‘ their world
leadership.

in the days of the Renaissance, the universities
of Italy led the world to the new learning that
overcame the darkness of the Middle Ages. The
universities of Bologna, Padua, Florence and
Rome had a large part in the movement that
brought the new light.

"Since those glorious days, however, the uni-
versities of Italy have been often content to rest
upon their laurels, while the rest of -the world
takes intellectual leadership. Even when Italy was
unified, het universitics developed a tendency to
remain provincial. Their professional faculties
were crowded, their scholarly halls almost desert-
ed. Science was taught altogether by the lecture
method. medicine was learned in the clinics; lab-
oratories were almost as rare as in Galileo’s day.
Libraries of a hundred thousand volumes were
considered large, and professors had to learn their
living outside their teaching.

Such conditions could not lease the Fascist gov-
ernment. If youth was to lead the new ‘Italy_it
must be thoroughly and carefully trained. Gio-
vanni Gentile, who had long been a professor, was
the first minister of education under Mussolini,
and his successors, Fedele and Ercole, were also
schoolmen. Under their leadership and the Duce’s
own, a revolution began to take place.

Science was the first need, and laboratories
were built, until now there are none finer than
those in the university city at Rome. Italy's great
scientists, like Marconi, were called to help with
the instruction, and the salaries of the professors
were heavily increased, so that they might give
their (ull time to the study of their problems.

The libraries were improved, first those in the

tities. like the new one at Florence which houses

a mullion voluoes, then those in the univetsitics
themselves. The library of the Catholic Uni-
versity, the Sacre Cuere im Milan, is & rich storc
of material arranged for easy accessibilicy. The
Alessandrina library is buil: to hold more volumes
than the famous ¥atican collection itself.

The heavy migration of foreign students, even
Americans. has been inereasingiy marked in the
past few years and is evidenee of the progress
that is being made. Evidence of the government's
clear thinking in leading the movement is Musso-
lini’s specifications tor the great university city
at Rome, as he gave them to the architect, Piacen-
tini, in 1932:

“Build at Rome. but for ltaly, aad not only for
this iroubled period of arciitecuutre bree for certe
‘wries to come; construct for what is already be-

ment as a very childish and unbeccming bit of (come the greatest center of study in the Mediter-

legislation. [nm a sense it is that very thing. It
was designed as a movement to either quiet or
remove entirely certain childish and unbecoming
disturbers. So, if you like, change the name of
the regulation to anti-childishness and anti-un-
becomingness.

Tew colleges in America would have allowed
an undesirable condition like this to become in-
gtained into the life as it was at Davidson. But,
nevertheless, it will still be possible to eliminate
it if every man strives to co-operate with the
student government in enforcing the amendment.

a

« — =

ranean and which must not now stop its progress ;
give, finally, to the architecture a modern and
noble text of scholastic construction, simple, sober,
practieal and also relatively economical. Spend
nothing. however, for useless ornament, but build
rooms full of air and light, Yaboratories well
furnished, otfices adapted 10 study and research,
orderly aad well furnished fibraries ; and all com-
modious ard neat, following the laws of hygiene
and the necessities of modern science, in an at-
mosphere adapted to research, to study and to
serene meditation,”

_ DAVIDSON
OFF THE

merely to escape putting up bleachers or to .

y) wes ie
Y HAROLD SUGG
DEAR BOYS ...

Just before leaving for Tennessee,
investigating the trouble when the
wind blows castward, and Ken-
tucky. the home.of beautiful horses,
ete. and taking in. the local color
of West by gad Virginia and wind-
ing up invthe Old Dominion, f
thought dv sit me down, unpack
my thoughts and tell you boys who
to run the place while I am gone
and the Pan-Hellenic Council how
not to ruin the place. During this
peregrination, | shall be indulging

in what sardonic John Walker
terms “luxurious  quibbling,”. %ex-
empli gratia: attempting to per-

suade folks in Tennessee and West
Virginia that the Supreme Court is
the Hunker Cabal of the Nation and
folks in Kentucky and Virginia that
it is the Bulwark of Civilization.
Sounds hypocritical but [ am hop-
ing it wilt end up in a Civil War
between these states. Then that
will relieve the unemployment sit-
uation in the North, for all the Yan-
kees will regain their jobs as car-

petbaggers. Before I cease this
fanciful mental Iliad, let me an-
nounce to the public that John

Walker has been appointed cco-
nomic advisor to Liberia, or prime
minister to Ethiopia I forget which,
O How 1 Love the Pan-Hellenic
Council

It has reached my cars that the
venerable President of the Pan-
Hellenic. Council (may Allah bless
him. he’s my fraternity brother)
and his cohorts intimated, in fact
said outright among other and

worser things (please, professor, L |.

meant to say worser) that my pro-
tests were like a chicken pecking
at Gibraltar. Well) if they meant
by Gibraltar that they “got rocks,”
they're right and’ if they mean by

‘me being a chicken that they have

the “chicken feed” they're also
right.

“Tneidentally the great feature of
Junior Speaking, so I'm told, is
that calumnist won't be there and
that everybody-can frolic, free and
unfeared (no, ['m not in Tennessee,
yet, all ryeght), Well, to tell the
truth, [ meant to call off my de-
bating trip when I heard it would
conflict with Junior Speaking. But
E found that Tommy Tucker was

an SAE so I decided ['d go on west.
And then [ found that he was a Phi
Beta Kappa, which would put him
in the class with Ghandi Walker,
so lam leaving a day earlier.
Lapsus Mensae (7)

Last week [£ compiled a list of
those personages whose principal
claim to fame was a prominent pro-
biscis. Well, the paper was. still
warm off the press when a general
tumble of discontent rose from East
which soon swelled into a thunder
of protest that they, East Dormi-
tory, claimed the longest and most
uncertain nose alive. Calumnist
rushed down to investigate and saw
the amazement of his life. Last
week [ said that Schnozz Hill could
smoke a cigarette under the show-
ers. Well this. montrosity could
smoke # Coréna cigar under the
sprinklers and wash his back at
the same time. They call him Bull
Durham. Unicorn Durham would be
a more appropriate monicker.
Pestiferous Personages 13 & 14

Among the’ queer tricks that na-
ture plays in the Dormitory Incu-
bator is the Insomno-Maniac. He
is the guy who has a mania for
awaking pcople to see if you have
a class, have eaten dinner, or want
an apple. He can't stand to see
a man sleep and therefore you
can’t sleep late unless you bar the
door. And even then he will beat
the door down. No. Fourteen PP
is the Pass-it-thank-You guy. You
pass him the bread, he takes some,
thanks you and leaves you holding
the plate. Lvery hall has a PP
but only first floor Georgia has a
Harpo Harpy Hairpo Hairlan Har-
an. :

Davidson College was built espe-
cially for third floor Georgia. If
you want to study, go to the library.
{f you want to sleep, go to the in-
firmary,

Sojourns in Gehenna

The dark room door will have to:
be reinforced to keep out the High
School girls who are clamoring for
a_picture-of that—-Blonde Curly

Bo ee
i

Washington, D. C.—Besides being
the capital of the nation, Washing-
jon is a city of some 000,000 resi-

"l dents, with many of the same mu-

nicipal problems found in Baltimore,

.| Philadelphia, New. York and Chi-

cago.” But whereas these cities have
elective bodies of their own to man-
age their atfairs, Washington is
governed by Congress, a group of
men much more concerned with the
business of the nation as a whole
than they are with the troubles of
the capital.

The result’ is that Washington,
econoniically well off, has more
deaths occurring yearly of prevent-
able diseases, more crime, more
traffic accidents, and more of a
traffic problem than any city of the
same size in the country, with the
exception of one or two cities whose
industrial population is largely un-
employed, causing an abnormal in-
crease in disease deaths and crime.

In addition it has an unbelievably
poor transit system, a tremendous
housing shortage and fabulously
high rents, and its gas and électric
tates yield unduly high returns to
the utilities.

These evils exist because the gov-
ernment tules Washington through
a District Committee of Congress.
“Washington gets a good govern-
ment one year and bad government
another year, or no government at
all, depending on the amount of in-
terest taken in the District from
time to time by various members
of the District Committee, or de-
pending on the individual attitude of
members of that committee. The
citizens can how! from January to
January for a decent ‘appropriation
to fight tuberculosis and a single
man on the committee can defeat
their efforts by vigorous action. Rep.
Blanton of Texas, in his dogfights
with the local, medical authorities
who are asking for such an appro-
priation, is an example of an auto-
crat taking advantage of the politi-
cians’ dream come true—a place you
can run without fear of being vot-
ed out. For no Washingtonian can
vote, locally or nationally. He can
only petition.

What this city needs is a first
class muckraker, a Lincoln. Steffens,

Around Washington |

: By ARNOLD SERWER =’

to once again go back of the city’s
evils to the wherefore. Here there
is not the tieup between politics
and crime, indirectly made possible
by business. Here we have gov-
ernment by representatives of other
parts of the country—representa-
tives absent from the city. six
months in the year. Does the city
necd a new courthouse, or a new
jail? Does it need a new hospital?
Should the pay of city employees
be raised? Congress will decide
those matters when it gets back to

town, and when after getting back

to town if it finds the time to look
into them. Steffens, when he look-
edt into the Washington setup years
ago showed that although run by
Congressmeit, persons supposedly
superior to city bosses, Washington
had as bad government as one could
find in New York under, Croker of
Tammany Hall. Relatively speak-
ing, keeping in mind that city gov-

ernments have improved since those

flamboyant days, Washington is in
the same position as it was, maybe
a good bit lower. down, on the mu-
nicipal ratings

And so, because Washington has
no vote, it is tossed around merrily
from year to year by Congress.
Whoever in Congress wants to pay:
attention and exert effort in regard
to the city can do it great good or
immeasurable harm. All sorts of
things have been. and are suggested
by Congressmen for the District. A
dry Congressman proposes the Dis-
trict be made dry, by recalling Pro-
hibition for the sole benefit of
Washington. Blanton sticks in a
rider to the District Appropriations
bill to the effect that District teach-
ers are not to teach or advocate
Communism. If some bigot appears
in the House some day and makes
an impassioned demand that the
sidewalks be taken— up at nine
o’elock every night the only thing
that will prevent him from putting
such a-bhill-through will be not the
fondness of Congressmen for the
citizenry, but the fact that Con-
gressmen are either often out af-
ter that hour, or have their cars
parked on the wrong side of some
one-way street, alongside a fire
hydrant.

Light Fantastic .. . a

Davidson is not the only schdel
where students yen to dance on cam-
pus. Perusal of our exchanges would
indicate that the inmates of Agnes
Scott, Wake Forest and Winthrop
crave the same privilege. At High
Point the matter has gone a_ step
farther. In a recent editorial the /1i-
Po, commenting on trustees’ denial of
student petition, characterizes the pres-
ent social program as “childish and
provincial,” intimates students might
take matters into their own hands,
dance without. permission. Within the
past two years, Guilford, Catawba, and
Lenoir-Rhyne have come to “recog-
nize dancing as a wholesome social
recreation.”

Memory...
Darn he! me hate he!
Me wish he were died!
He toid I he-loved I,
But darn he, he lied!
. Illini.

Wages of Virtue...

A recent survey made by the life in-
stiranee sompanics would indicate that
the ministry offers the longest life of
any of the professions. Physicians,
contrary to the popular belief, live
a little longer than the average man,
while agricultural workers have a fow-

Haired Greek idol named Motley.
We have heard of boys named after
flowers but Henry T. Mills is the
first we know of to be called Dal-
lia. Rob Roy Purdy has composed
a song: “CE Can, Canoe?” Leonard
Fort learning to play second fiddle

to his sweetheart fiddler in States-
ville. Casanova Bigham = at =the
Broadway. Bet that girl thought
the balcony seats were uncomfort-
able. | Billy Crooks can’t follow
up at Duke. Powerhouse: Herbie
Hoover snakes om Hervey Ross in
Charlotte. John A. C. Andrews af-
ter a little Moore Sat. Bob Tissue
and a weak in Charlotte. Jimmy
Salango with Moonglow in his cycs
and that torch singer for Bob
Popd’s orchestra. Hornbeck and
Poplar Apartment. —

She is just a Banker's daughter,
and does discount? There are two
kinds of courses: crippy and crap-
py. The next column wvill be writ-
.ten from Danville, Kentucky. Wil-
bur Edwards, whose unfortunate
lot it is to accompany the calumnist,
is getting impatient so Schnozz
Hill’s nose, Schnozz Hill’s nose. So
long!

° STOLEN THUNDER

By DAYMOND TURNER

er death rate than men in any other
business. —The Mercer Cluster.

Leap Year Lament...

The average length of a modern ro-
mance is a month. As long as it takes
the hair on our neck to grow from our
ears to our shirt collar. —Maroon.
Ex-Calumnist .. .

Here lies the body

Of poor Uncle Roddy -

Who died in the interest of scandal;

The paper change hands

And to meet in demands

No more colleg lawve will he handle.

—Red and Black.

The Law...

The Supreme Court of Oklahoma
handed down a decision last week ex-
empting fraternitics from paying state
taxes. The decision was based on a
court ruling that fraternities are “edu-
cational institutions.”

JUNIOR CLASS
(Continued from. Page 1)
Jack Branch; Sigma Phi Epsilon,
Miss Virginia Shaver, of Salisbury,

with Jim Morton.

Several members of the faculty
with their wives have been invited
to act as chaperones at all of the
dances, :

The officers for this year's Junior
Class are Russell Patterson, presi-
dent; Jim Morton, vice-president;
and Hal Overton, secretary and
treasurer. ‘

Tommy Tucker madc his first ap-
pearance shere when he played for
the sophomore dances in 1934.
Tickets may be secured from any
member of the Junior Dance Com-
mittee. Set tickets will go off sale
Friday afternoon, March 13.

POSSSHEHSSHESHHOSHSOESHOOOHEHOCEOOSE

THIS
COLLEGIATE
__WORLD__.

PPSOCOOO SOSH SOTHO OOOOEEOSEOOCOSE

“What,” asks Columnist Bill Ken-
nedy of the University of Minne-
sota Daily. “is so wonderful about
Walter Johnson throwing a dollar
across the Rappahanock—with the
dotlar inflated the way it is!"

The newest organization alnong
college inen is the VFW, a military
organization.

lt means: Veterans of Future
Wars, and the organizers maintain
they ought to have their bonus
through Congress by July at least.

It all started with students at the
Virginia Military Institute and al-
ready has a chapter in Alaska, so
they say.

“The ‘new social order’ is a myth
Dr.- James S. Thomas, Clarkson

College president, warns against the

inteligentsia.

SOOOCOOHOHSOHSHSESOEHOOOSESOOODOROD

Compare the

NEW S8

From Davidsonians
of Years Gone By

POPPTTTPPPTTOLTTTTTT TTT TT TTT TTT
—1931— °

E. D. Kuykendall is elected cheer-
leader for the coming year to suc-
ceed George McClenaghan. He de-
feated E. L. Gorham... Phi Beta
Kappa elects five seniors to mem-
bership. The men taken in were
P. R. Alderman, J. R. Caldwell, A.
W. Cowan, J. W. Mc€utchan, and
Dean Rusk , . . The Sophomore
house party will be held this week-
end. A group of-Queens girls will
give a performance, Calligan and
Enochs will sing, and Clark and
Sugg will present a comedy skit.
... Three Davidson men, Fleagle, |
George and Kuykendall, place in
the non-conference competition at
the indoor games at Carolina
Junior Speaking will be held on the
twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth ¢
of this month. The committee in
charge includes N. G. Spier, J. C.
McConnell, H. C. McFadyen, Frank
Buckner, Jack McKinnon, and W. S.
Lee ... Dean S. V. Sanford of the
University of Georgia will speak
here on Athletic Night.

—1926—

W. R. Story is elected cheer-lead-
er over C. W. Williams ... Faculty
excuses members of The Davidson-
ian editorial staff from morning
prayers ... Parker, Ratchford and
Powell will represent Davidson in
the Pittsburgh debate . .. Work is
going forward on a theater that will
bring movies to Davidson ... H.
M. Austin, varsity tennis manager,

rannounces a heavy tennis schedule

for this year... . Dick Grey is elect-
ed student body secretary ... F.
L. Jackson will speak at Vespers
Sunday ... Annapolis Plebes will
wrestle the Wildcats . . . Davidson
Battalion is recommended for a
Distinguished Rating ... . The an-
nual spring golf tournament enters
the second round ... A question-
naire is being answered by the stu-
dents to determine the “Ideal Girl.”
.—}921—

Davidson comes third in the Big
Five basketbalt race... A small
blaze in the Phi Hall caused much
excitement, but it was put out be-
fore much damage could be done.
... Dr. W. W. Moore of Richmond _
will deliver ‘the fourth series of
Ott's lectures «this week . . . Bill
Mitey will captain the 1921 nine.

—1916—

Dr. J. D. Hammond of the Uni-
versity’ of North Carolina lectures
to the recently organized Interna-
tional Relations Club on principles
of War and Peace . ne Frosh-Soph
Declamation preliminaries‘are held.
... J.P. Laird is elected basketball
manager for next year... Dr. W.
M. Thompson of the University of
Virginia, will give an illustrated lec-
ture on the Panama Canal next
week.

Printers...
Publishers...
Bookbinders...

Commercial and Social Printing and Publishing
Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty

REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN——R. P. MORROW

STANDARD PRINTING
_ COMPANY

5

Charlotte, N. C.

117 Garland Court

|
