THE DAVIDSONIAN,

JANUARY 8, 1936

The DMabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed by the
QUEEN CITY PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

ond-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
Boer orth Carona, under the act of March 8rd, 1879.

ARTICLES FOR Satay ere

the hands of Managing Itors by 4:00 o'c! . m.,
peed Petters to the Editor are welcome, but all communica-
tions intended for publication must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN... ... . . = « « « « Editor
R. P. MORROW, Jr. . . . Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

JIMEN ORTON LiLaccenecacccosasuadeacaace! Managing Editor
Howett Overton ..--Managing Editor
Harorp Succ -Managing Editor
DAYMOND TURNER: cscccccscccusenseccecl Managing Editor
OHNO WINNE ceseesceccssebcsccusueccoues Managing Editor
Harry KuyKENDALL Sports Editor
MARTIN: “BARNETT: Geuscousseuasansuunence Associate Editor
HARVEY: GHASSi ca scucnucotoucuLuuunecsee Associate Editor
PAUL HARUAN® ‘cuatessecacbusbusuccaccces Associate Editor
NOME MARCHANT <cusccasccesssccescesecaes Associate Editor
NOHN=WALKER-seewluceccsconssececcacsud Associate Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
CHASLBS MAUZE covcevcclactcucceeus Circulation Manager
Bibi SWOPE laquacdiscoccuscnascscnas Circulation Manager
BOBAVANCE acccus _-Circulation Manager
HIOREGRUBINSON ccacesccccceee se tas= Advertising Manager
Binteltiniwescecce ss eccssaccenanaaade Collection Mawager
Brit DEYERLE Assistant Business Manager
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1936

God Is Pure: He Is a Shield to
Trust in Hum.

Every Word “of

Phem Thi

uw Put Their Prov. 3030.

7
NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS ....

It is perhaps a little late to bring up a subject that
most everybody has forgotten about, but possibly
some still have a few ideas with regard to resolutions
for the New Year. but since this is. the first post-
holiday issue we would like to say just a brief word
on the subject.

College campuses are, what might be called, ideal
breeding places for jealousies and attitudes provoca-
tive to criticism toward those about us. Often we
are inclined to be intolerant of the opinions and feel-
ings of those about us, and we too hurriedly forget
our own faults and human frailties in an effort to
show the other fellow his mistakes and weaknesses.

Let us resolve at Davidson to drive any petty feel-
ing of jealousy from our minds, and be big enough
to recognize the merits of others as well as our own.
Not ‘too hasty to criticize before we analyze, and
not ton determined to make ourselves feel like wear-
ers of r wal purple at the innocent expense of our
college companions. :

It is a thing that all of us can do. We would do
no harm to ourselves and certainly our associates
would consider us much more desirable persons to
live with if they knew we were trying to find quali-
ties to praise, rather than go about with a jealous and

critical eye,

PARAGRAPHICS ....

Heartiest congratulations to Carleton Chapman for
having earned the very high distinction of a Rhodes
Scholarship. He brings honor both to himself and
to Davidson.

Mr. F. 1. Jackson also merits plentiful felicitation
by his election to the national vice Presidency of the
Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity.

I'THE OPEN FORUM

Letters To The Editor

“The Davidsonian” does not necessarily en-

(NOTE

dorse or accept any opinions expressed in this column.)

Since the question was asked in a recent issue of
the Davidson Alumni Journal; as to whether David-
son should continue to play football with the Big
Three in North Carolina, a lot has been’ said. Most
of this talk has been by the various Sports Writers
of the Carolina newspapers, and very little has so
far been seen in print by the people most interested
—Davidson’s students, faculty, and alumni.

As one person very much’ interested in all things
pertaining to Davidson, I want to my
opinion,

It is hard to believe that there can be an appre-
ciable number of Davidson folks that really want to
sever relations with the Big Three. I am sure that
if the boys playing the game were interviewed they
would vote a most emphatic and unanimous “No.”
Those in charge of athletics at Davidson, I feel
sure, would also vote a “No,” because their rela-

express

tions with the Big Three are most friendly, and
(night I add) profitable. Davidson goes into these
games as the acknowledged underdog, and comes
out usually in fine physical shape, and withdut any
feeling of inferiority, because she invariably gives
a good account, of herself. :
If you want to get a glimpse of what is really the
“tops” in football experience just ask some player
who has participated in one of those rare games
when the Davidson team took their larger brothers
to the cleaners. Those are occasions worth cherish-

ing for many years and the knowledge that these

events may happen again adds zest and pleasure to

every feature of a football career.

There has been oceasions in the past when one
or the other of these big teams has sgared to the
heights; and there have been friends of these teams
busily engaged in waving farewells to litthe humble
Davidson whom they say they are leaving tor higher
spheres of activity. Somehow these comet flights
never reach the point that they get entirely out of
sight of Davidson.

Right at the present time all of these teams are
spiralling up into the big time football. But David-
son has managed to stay close enough behind to in-
terest these folks in the games that Davidson takes
part in,

Who could possibly object to Davidson continuing
to play these teams as tong as football 1s football?
There may be an oceastonal alumnus who just can't
take it; who wants to win every game, regardless.
He just can’t stand the jibes of the friends of a vic-
torious. opponent. Our advice to that man is just
to see more football games, then the sting of a de-
feat will be quickly wiped out by the thrill of the
succeeding games.

Just suppose for a moment that Davidson did
drop the Big Three. Who would they get to fill up
their schedule? Would they go searching around to
find big teams that were in a slump, in the hopes ot
knocking them off, or should they fill up with Little
Six Teqms from ‘our own State ?

The trouble with the former arrangement is that
schedules nowadays have to be made hbout two
years in advance; and very few teams stay that long
in the dumps; and while Davidson might schedule a
game with @ weak team, by the time the actual play-
ing of that game came about, that team might be
very strong,

About this Little Six competition, Davidson would
have trouble winning all those games. My prediction
is that in a few years after adopting such a polioy,
Davidson would be having one or two defeats at
the hands of her Little Six opponents. Because, why ?
Well, here’s why: Many a boy enters. Davidson in
the hopes that he will some day get to play in the
Carolina game, in the Duke game or in the State
game, If this opportunity were denied him, he would
just go to some other college. If you don’t believe
this, inquire as to how the Army and Navy games
have affected this condition. There are good boys
that entered Davidson College in the hopes that they

would get to make that trip to New York and play
Army. A team that they were certain to be licked by.
Right now there are boys at Davidson that entered
when they found out that Davidson was to play
Navy in 1936, and their hope is to get a chance
to get in that game to take a practically certain lick-
ing.

You can’t help but admire boys like that. We old-
timers that have boys of our own, want our boys
to be just like that. And I wonder how many of us
would be inclined to send our boys elsewhere if
Davidson should adopt the policy of dodging the
hard contlicts ?

Isn't it just possible that such a policy would
breed into the boys at Davidson, the notion that it’s
better to dodge a difficult situation than to fight
through it? In other words, to become definitely
second-raters ?

By all means, keep playing Carolina, Duke and
State until the end of the chapter. There has not
been a Davidson game yet when these teams could
throw in their second string and let them stay in
for any length of time. It may be that the Davidson
boys are just ignorant, for Carolina’s running over
Maryland, ‘Tennessee, Georgia Techs and all those
ether big boys, just did not convince those David-
son boys that they were going to get licked; and
Carolina had one of the toughest afternoons in their
whole season, piling up a two touchdown victory
over Davidson. The wrinkles in Snavely’s face dur-
ing that game were just about as deep as they were
during the first half of the Carolina-Duke game.
(Of course, they got a little deeper during the last
half of that game!). And then, can you remember
the time when Carolina had her famous “Hundred
Backs?” when Chuck Collins was told by a David-
son Alumnus that he hoped he would have good
luck in every game he played except when he played
Davidson, Collins reply was: ‘Well, maybe I won't
need any luck in that game!” As it turned out, Da-
vidson beat Carolina that year, and it was Davidson
that did not need any luck in that game! These
things are nice to remember and talk about, and
their rarity makes them all the nicer. :
JOS. B. JOHNSTON,

Past Pres. Davidson

Alum. Assoc.

|

tower and several Hooverized buildings.

DAVIDSON
OFF THE

TEN NIGHTS
IN A BAR-ROOM

thru

Emerging the slush by rail,

thumb and late busses, we meet again

Thirty-tiye may change to thirty-six,
Yowls mnay die, we may have a victrola
Mid-Winters the Record,

like a nigger eating watermelon, keeps

for but OfF
smiling year to year. Nineteen thirty-six

isa -perfeet square; the last perfect
square was 1849, the year of the gold
rush. Nineteen thirty six will be known
as the year of the bonus rush.

College is a concentrated cross-section
of America: and each man comes from
his other world to fit into the jigsaw.
Pioneers walk an empty echoing hall
Thursday afternoon, that night comes the
deluge, and finally Monday brings up the
Gil
from Memphis, Euclid’ Fant dragging in
(Acts I

and IT) finally finding their way out of

rear guard with Palmer arriving

from Texas, and the Ganiers

the swamps and cow paths of Mississippi.
Fach man back in his accustomed groove,
the wheel of Davidson College grinds as
usual and like the mills of the gods.
There is an outward feeling of calm and
resignation that. sets in after the holi-
days whose surface is bothered by an
inward state of troubling, suggestive-
ness and yearning. The best word for it
is melancholy. Familiar figure is the
Lovesick One—back from the holidays
and quiet, darkeyed and knowing, An-
other Annual Character is the guy who
swears off smoking for the year’s reso-
lution and hence hums cigarettes for a
month. And the professors are priming
their guns for examinations.

DESERTED VILLAGE

Some forty or fifty boys in the mad-
dened Hejira of December and saddened
return of January observed that peculiar
phenomena known as Barbers Junction,
a maze of tracks about 20 miles north
of this place. Tt-is the most ignominious
important spot this side of Mississippi.
It is impossible to travel 200 miles by
rail in North Carolina without running
into Barbers Junction. The focal point
of the universe, a most agitating game
is therein played by drunken engineers
who squirm in and out for hours before
deciding whither to go; and there is a
prize for any mgn who can figure it out.
Off the Record When a freshman got on
three trains bef@re catching the right
But it didnit make any difference
hecause they each backed in, again. A
visitor will discover a station, a control

one,

It has excellent possibilities as a home
for travelling salesmen’s wives.

CAMPUS EX-PLUTOCRAT NO. ONE

“The Yowl” has uttered its last mourn-
ful yelp; and swelling the army of the
unemployed is that grim noble band of
jokesters, artists and punsters whose job
it was to eke humor out of a dreary
existence. The gentleman looking at you
is the erstwhile Editor of the bewailed
publication, whose ignoble desinence was
presaged when the
title, “The Vile Cat’
was vetoed as not be-
charac-

ing properly

teristic. Downie now
exile until
this clean shaven chin
is bearded, until he
needs a_ haircut
until he gets a

culiar look on his face.

. goes into

and
pe-

DOWNIE
Then Tom will be literary enuff to as-
cend as Editor of the remote and em-

bryonic literary magazine. Hal Overton
must turn from cartoons to Rembrandts,
Gib Smith's Qswald must become a
Chuzzlewit, Marry Kuykendall’s Love-
lorn column must become a Pepys’ diary
and Dick Vowles, Dunnie Covington,
John Anderson, Sam Ryburn, Bob John-
son and all that worthy staff must dress
their humor in Top Hat and Tails. Queer
quirk :—The straw that broke the camels
(?) back came from.one-of our female
contemporaries. And even we think the
joke was unwittingly vulgar; These mod-

*- AROUND WASHINGTON

By ARNOLD SERWER
(Associated Collegiate Press
Correspondent)

Washington, D. C—No other body of
Federal investigators has as rapid a turn-
over in personnel as does the Bureau of
Investigation of the Department of Jus-
tice. The average period of service for
the Secret Service men, the U, S. Post
Office inspectors, and the Narcotic Squad
of the Treasury Department is consider-
ably longer than the average period of
service among Jay Edgar IHloover’s G-
Although Hoover them
younger, the other services keep them

men. catches
longer. Some observers here say it's be-

cause Hoover's special agents, being
younger, are too ambitious to stay in the
department and await gradual salary ad-
vances and promotions, when the field
of private investigation is so much more
remunerative. Others say it’s the work
itself that the

Bureaty of Investigation.

causes the turnover in

At any rate, year after year they leave
the department to go with private de-
tective agencies, into the practice of law,
or into other types of public service-or
into business, The vacancies are filled by

competitive examinations from time to
time.
Hoover uses young men with two

types of training, accountants, and young
men with law degrees. Of a force of 600
G-men, about 200 are accountants, the
remainder are lawyers. Applicants suc-
cessful in examinations held in any one
of -the-department’s 37 regional offices
scattered the country, come to
Washington for a final examination. Suc-
cessful» applicants, if physically fit and
of good character are finally enrolled in
a three months training course in the
bureau's school here. On completing the
course they are appointed special agents
at salaries ranging from $2500 to $3000 a
year.

In return for that salary the young
special agent works long hours, jumps
from one city to another, and follows
his instructions to. the letter, Carrying
out orders often entails various kinds of
unpleasantness. One assignment
agents dread is any case having to do

over

many

with the white slave traffic. ‘They'd
sooner be on the firing line than go
through the undercover routine often

necessary to locate the organizer of the
traffic in a particular locality, The word
“undercover” is particularly apt here.
Tt’s nice work for rolling stones though.
You never know where the department
will tell you to roll to next, and how
long they'll keep you there. Married
men in the service have: a particularly
hard time of it for this reason. ‘Their
families live with their rags always
packed and a railroad timetable handy.
One young agent, who had been mak-
ing plans to get. home, was assigned to
a difficult case in a Midwestern city,
that kept him on the job for six months
without a break. All he had to do was to
play the saxophone, A criminal wanted

by the bureau, the G-man’s superior

WEATHER REPORT—Follow the
weather report and save wear on
your ROTC uniform. Outlook: Fa-
vorable. Friday: cold, cloudy but
no rain or snow. Monday:- warmer
and rain. Wednesday:- Bright but
windy. Furneshed by the Off the

Record weather observatory bureau.

HOLIDAY SLUSH

As happy as a freshman home for the
holidays. Carl Groover: back from Ball
Ground, Georgia, where he claims he is
a diamond in the rough. Wayne Pat-
ton, Charlie Malone, and Ralph Me-
Clelland (who has double trouble with
freshmen in the back seat) interrogate
Glen Cunningham at the Atlanta Sta-
tion and have the pleasure of seeing him
run for the train. Carleton Chapman and
his hoyden sweetheart of the Southern
Railway. What
meaningless as

seems as
Christmas
after January first?

And Howard Covington gets the palm
for being so kind to children. But so
children are so unappreciative. And so
are waiters and policemen, muse Marion
Bryant and Bill Deyerle, who with Har-
mon the Hermit cared for W. Va. Pete
McKnight, George Hornbeck, Mack Da-
vis, Wiley Bradley and Gordon Smith
went to the
beauties.

Charlie Mauze, Downie and Palmer at-
tended the KA mutual convivialities at
Memphis. Skinney Stevens stayed with
an acquaintance in New York. And Leap
year brought a reminder to Don Stewart
from an “ex.” Burns and Pittman leap-
ing at a leap year dance in Sedgefield.

Willard Dixon: Lochinvar of 1935.
Morris Peabody and Heman Clark were
among the hunters; frozen rabbits were
rather plentiful. And Fields Young
wishes that either he had sworn off
smoking or his,brother had sworn off

and
decorations

flimsy

“warm” land of bathing

ern gals!

shooting firecrackers.

learned, was eventually going to put in
an appearance at a certain night club,
It seems he always dropped in at that
club whenever he got back to town.
G-man, who had played the saxophone
in college bands, was ordered to get into
the night orchestra by hook or
crook. After playing in several other
bands the agent finally heard of a va-
cancy in the club’s orchestra, applied for
it and got the job.

club

For six months he played “Dinah,”
“Tiger Rag,” and-other current melodies,
and searched the crowds dancing by for
a glimpse of the man he'd been sent out
to spot. And one night he saw his man.
At the first opportunity he telephoned his
chief and the G-men came down and
picked up their man without any trouble.
The saxophone playing G-man’s thoughts
promptly turned homeward. He discoy-
ered to his disgust that he was ordered
to keep his job in the orchestra for an-
other few weeks before quitting, so as
to avoid casting suspicion upon hiniself
as being in any way connected with the
picking up of the man the department
had_ been after.

If you're contemplating applying for
a job as a special agent, don’t worry
much about getting shot. In the past 10
years only about a half dozen men have
been killed in the line of duty. In the
same period a great many more young
men were killed playing football, Which
brings to mind the fact, by the way,
that if you've got all the other qualifi-
cations to become a special agent, you
have a better chance for an appointment
if you happen to be an athlete. Hoover
has a predilection toward them as ad-
ditions to his force.

Collegiate Ramblings

COLLEGIATE...
A-college paper is a great invention;
The college gets all the fame;
The printer gets all the money—
The staff gets all the blame.
—Purdue.,

‘LIGHT FANTASTIC’ . . .

Rules for campus dances at Purdue:
due :

1. No dancing on the ceiling.

2, Don't hang feet out of window,

3. Don't boo chaperones,

4. Don't retreat to the lounges unless

you brought her,

‘UNDER A ROSE BUSH’ . . ?
A stork recently lit on the roof of the
Kappa house at Ohio State. The efforts
of the girls to remove the visitor proved
in vain, and_ finally university officials
were called to remove the audacious
fowl. All girls were resting easily at last
report.—The Cadet,
JUDGEMENT...

Some girls judge a boys pocketbook
by the grin on his face. But families
don’t pay allowances by the size of their
son's mouth.—.Varoon,

INTERPRETATION . . .
When_a fellow tells his girl that they
can’t live off of love, it means that he

hasn't got a job and her old man has.—
Sow wester,

DEPRESSION . . ?

College graduates don’t have to at-
tend homecoming celebration to see their
old classmates. They hold reunions in
front of employment agencies every
week.—Notre Dame Scholastic. . . “Just
give me wine and women; I've got laryn-
gitis.’—Oberlin Review,

GREAT MINDS .. .

Q. . . Why did the blood hounds give
up the hunt for little Eva?

A... They tell me she was anemic!

Then too, a rolling stone gathers no
moss, but it gets darn smooth.

TYPICAL...

“The typical Harvard man is an in-
different old maggot with a funny ac-
cent,” says the university’s alumni bul-
letin.

ROMANCES. . .

He thought-he'd surety made a hit,

When for his photograph’ she prayed.

“Out, when this calls,” she wrote on it,

And gave it to the maid. . .

AND MORE SO...

Did you hear about the Tech boy who
ordered a book “One Thousand Things
You Can Make?” When the looked-for
package arrived, he feverishly tore’ it
open and found—the catalog of a large
girls’ school.

THE DARK AGES...

Students at W. and L. are still denied
the use of electricity on Sundays. A pre-
Christmas edition of the Ring-Tum-Phi
suggests placing contribution boxes at
strategic intervals about the campus to
defray cost of Sabbath illumination, An-
other columnist hints that if trustees
owned a few shares of power company
stock, the situation might be altered.
