ve

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 13, 1936 <

The Davidsonian

Founded By the diass,of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collesiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest __

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina...

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-classtmatier at the Post Office at Davidson,
North, Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.,

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

mist be in the,hands of Managing Editors by 4:0) o'clock
. m., Monday... Letters to the Editor ace welcome, but all
communications intended for publication, must be signed.

ao)

JIM MORTON ~----a ae Editor
R. H. ROBINSON wee c nee nee ee enne Business Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
Owrn Cooker -. -Afanaging Editor
Sam Cotiman — Managing Editor
Evuciiv Fant — ---Managing Editor
Tiecron McGraeiiy ..Managing Editor
Dick Vowlus Alanaging Editor
Yates, alison -- ..S ports Editor

.lssociate Editor
-vtssociate Editor

Harry KuyKenpDats.
Howett, OvERTON

THarotn Sue —_. ..dssociate Editor
Davmonp TURNER ~.----- --- elssociate Editor
Joun WINN 2-212 ----------- -lssociate Editor

WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 1936

The,cves of the Lord arc. in every place. behold-
ing the evil and the good. Prov. 15:3.

THE DAVIDSONIAN extends sincer-
est sympathy to the family and friends
of Bryan Ritchie and joins in mourning
his untimely loss.

Paragraphics....

At this ttme of vear it is cnstomary for most
college papers to offer a mournful editorial
eulogizing the departing seniors. We feel that
anything we might have to say on this sub-
ject has already been said far more capabty
than we fhight hope to say it. So let's dispense
with the customary ball and join in wishing
the soon-to be graduates every suecess in lite.
while striving to make next-yeart for the col-
lege the most eventiul one in her history.

Retiring Editor...

It would not be well to ci

close the schoo
year without a word for our retiring editor.
LAMONT BROWN. Modest and seli-efiac-
ing, he has in his quict, cliective way done
much to make this a better pape:. He brought
recognition to the college as president of the
N.G.C. i. A. The new seven column pages,
and that handsome new type face for heads
were his innovations. flere’s luck, Lamont!
It's been a pleasure to work with vou!

Distressed Seniors...

Next year, it is our understanding. seniors
will be competed to attend the Sunday eve-
ning vespers held in Chambers’ auditorium.
Compelled is a rather sirong word and we use
it advisecly, Perhaps “required’” would sound
better in some ears.

——Itis not our purpose here to enter that con:

troversy about the merits or values of com-
pulsory, vs. voluntary church attendance, a
discussion which antedates the beginnings of
this publication by several years, and
which has brought the editors of more than
one student eifon togriel, Phe. Davidsouian does.
not necessarily endorse cither side of ‘this issuc,
nor is it the one here involved,

But in view of the taet that at least hali of
the present student body is not Presbyterian, we
feel that semors at least should be permiced ic
attend the church of their choiee. Besides with
good roads and case and rapidity of modern trans-
portation a yearly inercasing number of under-
graduates spend their weck ends at home. Most
of these students come trom Christian families
would, and do attend divine services at home. Yet,
under the present system, no credit is allowed for
whis atterdance, and many who live nearby are
forced to return hours earlier, travel on the Sais
hath day wo be back at school in time fox this
evening service,

—The Amercan nation as a whole ‘hes always

opposed resirietion, and the night to worship as

one pleased was one of the basie ones on which
our country was founded. To again require sen:
iors to sit in assigned seats represents a distinct
loss of senior privilege. We agree with the writer
who in “Campus Comments” last weck voiced

an opinton that the menwhers of this class, at least,
are mature cnough to reattze the values of te-
ligion and have reached the age where observance
under compulsian will not make them good. .

The services this year have been of a calibre
such as to‘arouse and hold wide student interest.
The college and the Y. M. C. A. are to be con-
gratulated on making such inspirational meet-
‘ings possible. The large number of seniors who
have attenced voluntarily adds to our contention
that all who are on campus and would attend
gu anyway. A fecling of restraint would prob-
abW Jessen the value tor those who would at-
tend for that reason alone. To assign seats and
place monitors over them appears to he a reflee-
tion on the integrity of the rising senior class. In
other words, our Centennials canit be trusted to
check on themsclves as have others in ihe past!

Cornelia Shaw...

This vear brings the reurement of one of Dav-
idsun’s truest and most loyal friends, Miss Cor-
Netia Snaw, who has served the college with un-
jailing devotion for nearly thirty vears.

It is next to impossible for us to realize in the
crowded pace of a modern campus just what she
has meant to the school in those trying times be-
tore the Worid War and the bleak period jus:
atier the burning of old Chambers. Eor four-
teen vears, £907 10 L921. she filled the posts of
both hbrarian and registrar. filled them capably

/and well. Ter complete and carefully authenti-
cated “Davidson College’ ts an outstanding con-
tribution to the history of the institution and the
state, ~ .

For many vears Miss Sitaw took an active in-
terest in aif student affairs. She furnished in-
valuable assistance to Cine Davidsonian during its
carly years and has ahvays been courteous and
helpful to the members of its statf. Untit the great
increase in Skze, she Knew every member of the
student body on sight and sowed a remarkable
memory for names. Perkaps sometimes she has
Tound it rather hard to accept the uneouth man-
ners of our post war generation and misunder-
standings have arisen: but at heart there ts no
one more devoted to the interests of Davidson and
every Student. >

ht is so easy in an editorial of this ‘nature to
wax maudlin, to launeh forth with extravagant
untrutas. Therefore it is with some hesitation
we otter this sincere tribute to one who has “given
withow sunt of her ume and talent” for the bet-
ternent of our alma tuater. Li we have erred, it
has been on the side 0: a too, too modest appraisal
ot her serviee to the college.

Etu Brute...

From time to time in the past we have editor-
tally arged ireshmen to be more diligent in speak-
ing to those whom they mect on the campus. Flow-
evet, tt has recently been brought to our atten-
tion that ireshmen are not the only ones who {ail
to uphold this campus tradition.

~ Nething is more disconcerting. more like a dash
of cold water in the face, than to have one’s

pleasant “Good morning I” or cordial “Gentle-

mea!” returned with a haughty stare or complete-
iy ignored. Yet some of our upperelassnen are
Irequendy guilty of this mild snobbery, We have
even nolieed an occasional lapse on the part of
our newly clected student body oflicers.

Fortunately such lapses and exceptions to the
tule are few and far between. But the friendiy
custom of speaking to one another is one of the
major features in our canypus aimosohere. Ie is
worth effort at preservation. Llence this re-
minder,

Remember the Alma Mater

In a few short weeks we will be scattered to our
homes or resorts for the summer vacation. But
jet us take with us the thought of our Centennial
Building Progranm: and all that it implies. Many
‘of us will be able to personally contact alunwi and
owmers who can contribute materially to the suc-
cess of this program. . Use these opportunitics
to best advantage ! Not only will the added pres-
tige ot the school mean much to us as alumni, but
it will make our college a pleasanter piace to live
while we are here}

QLOTABLE QUOTES
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

“Football develops that type of man who asks
pathing wore tha co fignt his own battle in life.”
Maj. John J. Gritiith, Big Ten Commissioner of
Athletics, defends the college game.

* . * *

“Spend leapyear on the farm if you're a bach-
elor, and want to stay that way,” says Prof. E. T.
lille: of the University of Hlinois. He explains
that there are fewer unmarried women in rural
districts.

» * » >

“T marvel at the. genuiemanly ways that have
heen discovered of being dishonest.’ Chicago's
Robert M. Hutchins discovers that honesty is no
longer considered smart.

a * * *
“os A
reach
had.”
knaqw.

middle aged individual has less chance to
the age of cighty than his grandparents
So says Dr. Alexis Carrel, who ought to,

_ DAVIDSON
. OFF THE

-y RECORD
ae r

14

. web's ‘

4 HAROLD SUGG
Airy Philosophers,
Mere Whittlers of Wood

A note of mild’ wonderment rings
in the mind of our monasticustomed
student at the effusive burst.of girls
that appears in town these late
spring nights, especially on Saturday
night. So long accustomed, to mere
boys and a campus ‘only sparsely
diversified by a few co-eds, the eye
takes notice at the sudden presto-
chango,

What brands Davidson as a vil-
lage is not its size, its stoplight or
its blue laws—or tts absence of sani-
tary inspection of dairies and board-
ing houses — but the way its deni-
zens mnmake the legal “UW” turn at
the 5 & 10 corner. Despite the pas-
toral sang-froid and the stolid non-
chalance, they all do it with a guilty
conscience. Once in a while a semi-
city slicker will slither around and
nearly break an arm straightening
out, but niost of the inhabitants
start from the bottom of the wheel
and sheepishly push it around.
History Repeats But
Not Orally

Once more to be visited upon us,
like the recurrent plagues of Egypt,
is a five (67) day rushing season.
Tats was tried in "35 and reaped
its harvest of hate and almost un-
animous condemnation. Proposed
again for °30 it was vigorously pro-
dusted and rusltfig season was re-
turned to decent length. But now
quietly, for characteristically. there
has been no public announcement,
the awial road is laid out for us
again,

We suggest that rushing season be
dispensed with-and the . freshnien
be allotted according to a crap game
by the Pan=Ftetlenie Council (new
racket, boys). That. 115) freshmen
Can choose successfully from 9 en-
vironments in 5 days is a_ pitiful
Pecsuniption, May the best Liar win.
Every Rose Has Its Thorn

And it's an ill wifi that blows
no good. In two /such — simple
adages docs columfist view the

WALKER cvacuation of the

senior class from

Beour bulwarks, car-
B rying with them one
J. Mega lomaniac
Watker who feeble
misquotes .the class-
ics for want of orig-
inality. Walker wild-
fy blurbs) vactum-
“rants wildly” like phrases, the
sum of which he calls pnilosophy.
To what use he plans to put his
wild ranting we don't know. We
suggest that he- go on the “March
of Time" Program and stooge as
the discontented mob.
Languid Richards

An air of secretiveness surrounds
the recent YM. Co AL Cabinet
houseparty but from the — circles.
limps and = staggering signs? one
would think they had been off on a
ten day knitting party. The only

concrete evidences we can uncover

is that Walker was presented a cup
for being a Casanova, that “Kongh-
Llouse” Glass was sober, and that
by ‘calling it a “deputation” they had
their cuts excused.

There were others. The Kappa
Alpha order betook themselves to
Roaring Gap where Tom Downie.
who has been getting that way
foster and foster. fell head over
heels that way then. J. C. Crowell
who was last seen “nigger-dancing’
at the Bowery took up square dane-
ing’ and Gil Palmer and Marshall
Sanford were all wet. The Phi Del-
ta,.Theta boys went: to the, Power
Lake near Statesvitle.but alt evi-
dences point to a quiet time, such
as the Betas and Pikas had further
back in the week-end. As for the
SAE's, read on. “

The Last Round Up .

We hear Jimmy Wilson doesn't
dike baseball players. “Hornets in
my Soup,” says Jimmy ... George
“Life of the Party” Mathis...
Bailey Williams dating jailbirds .. .
Which should be of interest to Col.
Bob Johnson Max Brittain
couldn't snake on a freshman...
Bob Florence, 13 miles in vain...
Mickey Kinn, Fields Young... And
to whom did Bix Six Johnson: give
his watch? ... What was Bill Man-
son doing on steps of Queens sor-
ority house last Sat. Aight... Bill

(Continued on Page 6) ‘

| Campus Comments

On June second some one hundred and twenty
students will graduate from Davidson. Of this
number a latger proportion will enter the busi-
ness worid than will go into any other occupa-
tional fielé. At any rate a larger proportion will
enter this ticld eventually if not immediately.
-very vear the situation is the same.

The most important courses to these students
are economies, business administration, and_ po-
litical science. As a result these classes are se-
lected by these men in their junior and senior
years, causing a consequential over crowding in
each subjeet. “As itis now we have one professor
teaching each of these subjects. To be sure they
are most efficient, but shey are handicapped by
the size and the number of classes they teach.
Each one tcaches from three to tive ditferent
courses with more than one class in some of these.
This seems an undue burden to cast upon them
and™expect the best: results,

An efficient instructor, preferably two, -could
he added to the faculty and alleviate the load on
their shoulders. Due to the homogenuity of bus-
iness administration, economics, and political
science one man could teach in at least two of
these branches,

itis mamored that another man is to be added
in the department of music for next year, it is
not my aim to criticize music. It certainly has a
place in a liberal arts education, and our musical
organization has brought credit to the institution.
Aut it does not seem so important to add another
man to our music staff when we need a man so
badly in the aforementioned fields.

Henry A. Catuey.

Yale, Harvard, University of Wisconsin and
University of Buffalo men have leading positions
on the new GOP. brain trust,

+ ££ HM

Dr. Aaron Bakst. Columbia mathematician,
every week receives two or three solutions of
mathematical problems that are unsolvable.

+ £+ & &

Prof. John Gamble Kirkwood, Cornell chemist,
has been awarded the 1936 Langmuir award of
$1,000.

OPEN FORUM

Editor Davidsonian : .
I.am appreciative of the efforts of the student
body to arouse interest in the need for a new In-

STOLEN THUNDER

-»»{ By DAYMOND TURNER - }<i-

Bull-et-in....

We recently heard of the professor who has
become a toreador. Well, well, well, when the
bull throws the professor—that's news |

D.C.....? -@

I never seem -to make a hit
No matter how L try

[ wonder if it is my “it?
That doesn’t- get me by.

I'm full of electricity
' That always seems to pain. -
Perhaps my current is A. C.
And he’s a D. C. man!
—The Bull Dog.
* _ * i
Aux Etats-Unis .... .
Overheard in the naturalization court:
“Where is Washington?”
“He's dead.”
“L mean the capital of the United States ?”
“Oh, they loaned it all to Europe.”
“Do you promise to support the Constitu-
tion?”
“How can 1? Fve got.a wile and six kids
to support.”
—Hastings Collegian.
 ,
Brown University writer, in an essay de-
scribing a physical examination:
- “Fle rolled up his arm to the elbow, ripping
off the button.”

Close-Up....

With a deep breath, and his heart in his
throat, he clasped his arms about the firm,
slender, yet pliable form and clasped it to his
breast. Slowly, as the rosy hue of his check
deepened into crimson, he bent the slim waist
slightly backward. Then, as his breath started
coming faster and warmer, and his heart beat-
ing like a-trip hammer, he completed the mo-
tion, “Ah,” was the only sound that escaped
his lips. Then turning he said: “There, boys,
that. in slow motion, is the way to tackle a
dummy.” ;

—The Hornet.
Mother Goose ....
- Little Jack Horner sat in the corner, >
Reading spicy fables, ;
He escaped his ma but not his pa,

firmary. This need has deen apparent To all aid
has been embodied in my annual report to the
Trustees for the past fifteen years. No student
has suffered from lack of attention while we have
heen using the old building, for we have good
general hospitals within fifteen or thirty minutes
reach, but during cold weather those who had to
stay in bed in the Infirmary have been uncom-
fortable at times due to poor heating. .

Student bealth service for colleges and univer-
sities has changed somewhat in the past twenty
years. Our present plan is to spend more energy
on preventive medicine, and to place the student
in contact with a competent surgeon or consultant
inmmediately, Even our wealthy universities pur-
suc this plan, for no longer is major surgical
work done in ecodege intirmaries. The parents
preter their sons to be in a modern generall hos-
pital, so the college inticmary should be a center
for health service amd well equipped for general
Uagnostie stady, 7

The ideal is to have bed capacity tor 34% of
the student body thus an institution of 1000
students should have 35 beds. The staff should
consist of the Director of Student Iealth Service.
an assistant who should be a trained technician
-for laboratory and X-ray work. A Psychologist
trom the College Faculty should be on the con=
sulting staff, for mental ills are as real as physi-
cal bones. The examining and treatment rooms
should be modern with equipment for Physioth-
crapy—such as ultra-violet lamps, diathermy, ctc..
since a large part of student practice consists of
injuries to limbs and joints.

It might interest your readers to know that
Davidson was one of the first colleges in the U. S.
to give complete physical examinations to all stu-
dents, and to require typhoid innoculation as well
as small pox vaccination, Your writer gave the
first typhoid vaccine ever administered in this
State ‘in 1908,

Together with the administration we have stud-
ie plans for a modern infirmary. The entire
set-up for student health service has been com-
paratively a recent development in all colleges. We
consider the University of Michigan as having
made the most recent improvements in this line.
[I:xperience has proven that an entircly free serv-
ice is not to be desired and that it defeats its own
end. Tke department is over- burdened with
needless examinations, visits and detais when all
services ate free.. Of course, ait aceident and
emergency cases should he entirely tree, but where
a student enters coliege with a permanent or
chronic defect there is no reason that all tneat-
ment should be free to him.

Joun W. MacConnenr, M. D..
Director Student Health Service.

—And now he can’t eat off tables.
—Johnsonian.

COMPARE THE NEWS

From Davidsonians of Years Gone By '

’ —Five Years Ago—
—last Friday the grey but proud heads of the
Davidson faculty were forced to bow them-
selves in defeat as the Senior Class baseball
nine administered them a 17-11 licking ——
Casting aside all decocum and classroom re-
Strain, the facaliy doamed old clothes and
though appearing to be holding 2 Bowery Ball
of its own, presented one of the most exciting
games of the season,

Cres of “Pitch to ‘em, C. K.:” “smack out,
Ernie “atta way. Dutch (l?engeveld) :” rent
the air, GC. k. Brown, (Dr. to you, sir) pitched
a tine beand of ball up to the seventh inning
when the old soup bone obviously weakened,
and he was replaced by Captain Pritchett.

—Ten Years Ago—

Soph Day, the end of Freshman tribulations,
will take place Saturday. Special regula-
dions in regard to dress and proper conduct _
will be inforced, and the time will be called
cach minute of the day from every dormitory
on the campus. A list of the schedule of time- |
callers will be posted on the bulletin board.

The cap burning ceremony will come just
aiter the show Saturday night. Freshmen will
be required to march to the athletic field for
the ccremonies. —— Freshmen will wear yel-
low slickers, carry books in a suitcase, stand
at attention upon entering the room of an
upper-elassman, and other regulations which
are being formed by the sophomore commit--
tec.

Spring note of faint hope for Greek letter men:
Out in the Einiversicty of Washington, they are »
looking into the possibihty of the administration
withhoidnig aeademic credits from those students
who owe bills to their (raterstizes.
aK OK *«

University of Oklahoma archaeologists have
discovered skeletons of Indians beiteved to have
been huried 300 years ago.

adeno ow Be

Edwin Markham, famed pact. will be honored
by Princeton University on his S4th birthday.

s+ ee

Notre Dame will open a special department for
the training of Catholic apologist writers in Sep-
tember. --

. I
