S

Che Pavidsonian _

Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associaled Collesiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Disest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

¢

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. _

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be-in the hands of. Managing Editors by 4:00 o'clock
> m., Monday. Letters to the Editor are welcome, but all
communications intended for publication must be signed.”

R. P. MORROW, JR. _.._.---.--- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF ;
Owen Cooke - .- Managing Editor
San Coritran -- Managing Editor

Evciio Fant. _-- Managing Editor
lector McGracny .-.AManaging Editor
Dick VowLTs ~ -Managing Editor

Yates [Aison -
TTarry KUYKRNDALL
HowFkLt-Ovesrton
Haroun Succ ..--
DaymMoxpd TURNER
Joux Winn: -L2..---

-Sports Editor
lssociate Editor
aassociate Editor
au. tssociate Editor
}

issociate Editor.

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager

7

. EL Roprtxson

WEDNESDAY. APRIL 29, 1936

|

“A good name iy rather to be chosen than great
riches, aid loving faves rather than silver. and
gold. Prov, 22:1.

We mourn the passing of Dr. D. H.
Howard. In his short stay among us he
had made many friends in both faculty
and student body. His place will be hard
to fill. THE PAVIDSONIAN joins in ex-
tending sincerest sympathy to his family |
and those more closely connected with
him.

Paragraphics....

Did you notice the photc in The Odsereer 0: |
the legislator who desires to kick the young essay- |
ist irom Wotiord: It looks as ii. the gentleman
in the photo needs a psychiatrist more than the
deseriher of mill conditions.

Keep the green clean! Daily bits of paper irom |
packages, wrappings of newspapers, and candy i

ssociate Editor +

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1936

College Need...

Xeed we reiterate? The woeful state of our
college intinrmary has already brought comment
in these columns several times this vear. But Ict
us Tepeat,

The presen: building is a disgrace. 11 is a fire
trap, poorly equipped, without moclern heating or
lighting faeilities, so aeriy decrepit that the

j whole trame structure litdrally shakes when one
.[ walks naturally aeross its Aoors.

deserves an award for bravery in merely ven-
‘firing to live in sueh a place.

In faee of mild epidente Tike the influenza
one last winter it has proven inadeanate. From
the standpoint of practical and absolute necessity
there is nothing that the college plant needs more,
Students showed that they feit this in Tire Duz-
idsonian poll last week. What can we do about it?

Eu and Phi...

This year, happily, seems to have broagiit about
in some smail measure that revival of forensic
ard literary interests which this publieation thas
urged $0. long. The old Phi society has risen
i phoenix like irom its ashes, and the Eu with
stricter entrance requirements and renewed in-
terest irom its members is now ‘going strong.”

Perhaps some innovations, such as the Oxtord
style dehate which brought so much hilarity to
the Eumeneans the other nigin. would give the
augnst founders quite a curn. But vhey mean a
change for the better as far as the societies them-
selves are concerned,

We are glad to see this ireshened vigor in our
most time honored institutions, But we wonder
how inany Students are tamihar with these or-
ganizations and the opportunities they aliorid.
Woodrow Wilson reccived his first training in
publie speaking at otie of these verv halls, En-
tranee requirements are not ditvicult and new
candidates are welcomed. Would vow ike a trial ?

Stage Lighting...

Not obvious enough to merit consideration in
any building programs. vet iust as vitally weeded
is some improvement in the stage lighting for
Chambers’ Auditorium. Anyone who has ai-
iempted to speak irom that platform at nigint
will realize the ditticulty experiéneed by the dis-

| tivguished orators who are our guests cither at
; vespers or the regularly scheduled lectures. Pres-

cnt lighting also tires the eves of the audience.

Some form of indirect fighting would not only
help tuture speakers and their andience. but would
he quite inexpensive 40 install.

| Campus Comments

Dear Ednor:

tn any series of comments on college life. there
should be”at least one article dealing with the
academie side of—the institution's activitics, and
therefore at this time when al: triends of David-
son College are uniting their efforts to make this
a greater Davidson. f teel that it would not be’
our of place to make some suggestions for the
improvement of its inteffeetual fire.

“Davidson has always been noted for its high

are dropped with litke regard as to how it will scholastic standards.” Without doubt this state-
look on the campus. The college employs several: ment fs eae i so lar as the upper twenty per
men to pick up unsightly objects. but they can’t ‘cent of a class is coneerned : in other words, it is

do it suecessiully without our eo operation, Let's ,
help them in the future.

The Pan Hellerie Council, with Coker Bran-
ton at its head. has given the Davidson Student
several good orchestras and all the dances have
proved successiul. It seems that more students
have taken a greatcr interest in the social events
than ever before, judging by attendance, at dances
this year.

Hidden Spirit...

Does it take a football game to bring out that
much vaunted Davidson spirit? Why can't we
have a more whole-hearted support of our other
athletic teams? Although the ‘Cats may not be so
successful in other sports all blame cannot be
placed on the teams.

Certainly the student body can turn out better
than attendance at the last few baseball games
would indicate! Perhaps the size of the gym-
nasium offers some excuse for the lack of attend-
ance at winter sports. But for the last few ball
games and track mects weather conditions have
been perfect and bleachers and stadium have af-
forded plenty of empty seats. The enthusiasm
shown would hardly equal that shown at the av-
erage professional game.

Come on, let’s get behind our spring sports pro-
gtam. With a little more thoral support we might
win fewer moral victories! Events are right here
on the campus, within easy walking distance of
your dormitory room. What’s more (you Scotch-
men) admission is already paid for on your ath-
letics fee! Stay with 'em Wildcats !

not very easy to obtain recognition here for high

class seholastie work.

On the other hand, Davidson is inexcusably
lenient toward the border line man. By this we
mean that there are departments in this institu-
dion toward which this class gravitates and in
which they get by with a minimum of.work and
a maximum of “bull.” Fortunately, these de-
partments are not numerous but the ugly fact re-
mains that there are enough of them to enable
the student, who is primarily interested in getting
a sheepskin stating that he is a B.A. or a B.5.
without knowing or caring what that degree is
supposed to mean, to complete his course and to

{be one of those ignorant college graduates: who

are causing people gencrally to raise their eye-
brows and to question the value of a college edu-
cation. If Davidson is to become the Williams,
Amherst, or Dartmouth of the South, this condi-
lion must be rectified, and the sooner this is done
the closer Davidson will be to being recognized
as the best medium sized college in the Southeast.

Since the entrance into Davidson of the class
of '36, the administration has been constantly
taking steps to bring about this much needed im-
provement and it is to be congratulated for its
work in this direction, Nevertheless, much re-
mains yet to be done, and it is to be hoped that
the administration, striving as it is at this time
for the material betterment of the college, will
never for an instant lose sight of its opportunities
for_ improving the academic standards of
Davidson,

Sincerely,

J. WOODROW HASSELL.

P. S.—I request Lamont Brown, the retiring
editor of The Davidsonian, to submit the next let-
ter. for Campus Comments.

on

DAVIDSON
OFF THE

‘~ RECORD
¥

Mrs, Robson | &/

SUGG

y) : BA a4

Y HAROLD
The Stag At Eve
Had Drunk His Fill

_ Occasionally to splatter the calm-
ness of an unbubbling stream come
those impulses akin to mass hys-
teria when we like to parade the
clown deviltry in us; break our egg-
shells and scramble with all the oth-
er eggs. Perhaps that’s why Bow-
ery Balls were originated—that and
to make an omelet for the Pan-
Hietlenic Council, The boys put on
a good ore for us last week altho
it is a pity we couldn't have con-
fetti tme grand march and a prize
for the best costume, Calumnist was
sure that the Council would award
him, the prize.

Cokey and his plutocrats have
done right well by us this year
and we've .had some good
dances. Altho excellent targets
for column copy, we are ail for
the boys and will be the first to
start a collection to make tip
their deficit of the last dance.
We were hoping that someone
would go disguised as an An-
nual Business Manager ... He'd
have to go disguised.

Prelude to the dance were all the
usual things: a number of strange
phone calls ike the one which re-
octaled tat VWeman Clark. was gone
on a fishing iip and would be in
the woods untul Tuesday; an ex-
change ot redundant collect tele-
grams between unsuccessiul Dan
Iverson and prospect; to Joe Brog-
puss Johnston: Sorry Can't Come
Grandmother Has Sore Foe Thanks
sbiyiway; and the play of correspond-_
ence which netted Fields Young
three dates instead of the conven-
tional one.

But once the girls arrived. a great
week-end was started. The weather
was perfect and. The Duke Am-
bassadors had samething :~smooth
Hfat Kemp music for the formal and
tea dances, and “swing it” for the
bowery. And there were snakes
crawling around, of which “Hal Ov-

erton” was the “most consistent
viper.
Other despicable reptiles

were: Bob Johnston, Bob Sours,

Ed Armfield, Ken Fyyfoogle,

Billy Hill, George Norfleet,

George Cowan, Bronston Ken-

ney, Joe Hunter, Twirps Willis,

Bob Vance, Mitch Arrowsmith,

Tricky Dave, Dunnie Covington

and Martin Barnett. John Lat-

imer, Charlie Malone, and Jer-
ry Harris were the most mal-
igned victims of the week-end.

Billy Crooks oughtonot to get lost
in swinging doors... The impec-
cable Crowell drops the Yankee
Dance-for the nigger at the brawl.
... Tricky Dave looked like a poli-
lician ready to hand out cigars and
kiss the babies . . .’and perhaps
he did later on... Booby Arrow-
smith the wrestler. Was there any
hold barred Booby?,

Phifer Erwin dressed in gaudy
yellow jacket with “Meezic” Mof-
fett in gypsy costume... McNabb
the Hotténtot ... Val Cassels, Ven-
ctian Gigolo. Iago himself... the
twin Blue Devils, Alice Palmer and
Helen Brown, with John Partridge
and Floward Covington .. . Proud
Couples: Tom Margaret Darst and
Tom Corbii, Sarah Rice and Walt
Dickson, Peggy Brawley and Irving
Bull, Alice Dunlap and Bill Morton.

Sam Ryburn not quite lost in
Dutch Big Boys. Old favorites back
again: Louisa Rankin, Claudianna
Evans, Ruth Whalen and the. Misses
Jean and Marjorie Robinson...
Ab ‘Price. a character from Alice in
Wonderland, A trifte absent minded,
Greensboro successes: Eleanor .Ec-
cles, Squeezer Overton and Wilfred
Schlosser. 4,

NEWS FLASH: Hindu Brown
successful at last. wards off snakes
and has a late date . . . Schnozz
Hill's nose was the shining light of
the ball... Banks Gladden and
his date dressed as Clowns. Any
funtly stuff, Banks? . .°. Jean Ab-
bitt and Bill Yelverton, delegates
from Eastern Carolina... Tyler
Port looking like an assorted night-
mare, Mr. Koffee Nerves ... Grace
Hembreght, Marilib Saunders and
Lib Bellé-of-the-Ball Lucas, popular
dates of the Plutocrats. More fav-
orites: Mary Smith, Helen Bell and
Johnny Walker, with Bob Lindsay.

(Continued on Page 5)

STOLEN THUNDER
“inf, By DAYMOND TURNER Ki

PARTING SHOT.... ‘

The human brain is a wonderful organ.

morning and never stops until we get to class.
~ + *& k FH

It starts working every

HALF-SHOT....

He calls his girl “Dot” because she’s always trying to polka head

into somebody clse's business.
.

; ee

THROUGH FIRING....

A: When it comes to cating you have to hand it to Venus de
Milo. 6: Why? A: How else could she eat?
x * * *
‘ME TOO'....
We Hate
Term Papers
We'd Rather
Cut Capers.

We Don’t
_ Like Tests
— They Spoil
Our Best...
—llastings Collegian.
- ek OF

YOU'D NEVER KNOW...

Skeleton: What’s left of a man when you take his insides out and
his outsides off... Social tact: The ability to make your company feel
at home, even though you wish they were... Cannibal: A heathen who
never works but dines on other people ... Discretion: The comb that
experience gives us after we have lost our hair.

—Daily Tar Heel

* ek

NO LISTERINE.... ?

Though they affirm

A deadly germ

Lurks in the sweetest kiss;
Let's hope the day

Ts far away

Of antiseptic bliss,

So pray let me phildsophize:

i)

é To sterilize
—t- lady's sighs
Would simply be outrageous ;
To humor her
I'd much preter {
_— And let. her be contagious.
« —The Tevas Ranger.
es OF OF
LOGIC .... o
1. No dog has Awo tails. 3 One dog has more tails than no dog.

3. Therefore one dog has three tails... Then there was the Maryland
freshman who actually protested the assignment of “outside” reading
because his pofch was too cold.

*

NOT THAT IT MATTERS...

Love, dumbness, and faculty intelligence are the reasons for fresh-
men flunking out at the University of Nebraska, according to one of
that institution’s deans... . The canny Canadian plans to cross kangaroos

x RF

with silver foxes so that he can grow fur coats with pockets... “It’s the
little things in life that -tell!’ said the sister as she dragged little
brother from behind the sofa... She was only a grave digger’s daughter,

but she could down the bier! :
—The Technique.

OPPORTUNIST...
Give me a house by the side of the road
Where the tourist pack goes by;
Soméone's got to sell hot dogs,
It might as well be LI

'—Gellysburgian.

* * * *

BULLETIN ....

425 members of the Union College post of Veterans of Future Wars
satirized war by marching into chapel bearing rifles ..: The slogan of
the University of Colorado post is "First in war, first in peace, first
in their country’s treasury." ... Another branch boasts it will “make the
world safe for hypocrisy.” At the University of California this VEW
staged a military ball, any odd item of uniform from stray fatigue
clothes to Sam Browne being worn. ”

OPEN FORUM

AND NOW?
To Whom It May Concern: -

Four years—-come and gone! Where in the name of thun-
der have they gone to in their murderous pace? Spent in
drug stores imposing on their generosity by reading (and cut-
ting) the magazines there, and then putting them down in
the spilled portions of someone’s dope or chocolate soda. Spent
in the most interesting bull sessions that discussed topics as
varied as the new style suits that appeared at the recent set of
dances. And possibly most of all in the Queen City calling up
innumerable and sundry types of the fairer sex in an effort to
become educated in a broad social way.

And what has it cost us? Many, many hours that could
have been spent in getting up that parallel which was due some
time ago; or in writing that term paper which we had to cram
in and do at the last minute. Goodly hours of sleep which we
made up for the next day on some considerate professor’s class.
Mohey that we knew that we could replace by simply writing
a nice long newsy letter home telling the family how hard we
had been studying and how our supply of shaving cream or
tooth paste had given out that very morning.

But most of alt it has cost us opportunity such as we will
hever run across again anywhere. Chances to make a record
that we could be proud of when we dare to stand up in front
of some big shot and say: “Please, Mister, I’m a college grad-
uate. How ‘bout a position?” Opportunities to show the folks
back home our appreciation for the sacrifices that they have
made for us.

Guilty? Sure. I'm as guilty as anyone on the Hill; but to
you who are in the rising classes, take a tip from those of us
who are supposed to graduate and make the best of the Oppor-
tunities that are coming to you now and will come to you in
the future. And here's to you the best that Davidson can offer,

(Signed) — J. B. HUNTINGTON, JR.

wv. —

i _ Compare the |
i NE W S_
3 From Davidsoniaus

~ of Years Gone By—

e
eo
e
e
e
e
e
e

—Five Years Ago—

Vifteen. men are clected to the
Student Council. Plans are complet-
ed for the installation of the newly-
elected student body officers. The
service will be followed by a bar-
becue which the entire student body
is expected to attend. Sophomore
Day is unanimously abolished by
‘the sophomore class, on the grounds

that it is injurious to Davidson rep- -

utation. E. C. Dwelle, of Charlotte,
is chosen to the editorship of the
Annual. Davidson's golf team wins
the state tournament. V. M. Ll. run-
ners tie Davidson, the score being
63-63. Duke defeats the baseball
team 4-1: The frosh nine defeats
Campbell College; the Kitten net
team ties Darlington.

—Ten. Years Ago—

Dr. W. H. Brown, of Washing-
ton and Lec, national secretary of
Omicron Delta Kappa and one of
the charter members, is the princi-
pal speaker at the initiation of 25
alumni and JL students. Roland
Parker is chosen valedictorian of
the graduating class, with Houston
salutorian and Pull orator. The stu-
dents are entertained with a movie
entitled “Stage Struck,” starring:
Gloria Swanson, the— film being
shown in the gymnasium. L. M. Mc-
LCutchen and Kk. W. Carr captures
the state doubles title. Clemson's
runners defeat Davidson and Geor-
gia Tech in a triple meet. David-
son’s diamond men are out-played
by both Furman and Clemson, The
frosh baseball team loses. three
games and wink one on a trip over
the state.

(Continued on Page 5)

= COLLEGIATE }
{ WORLD _ i

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

“Employment doesr-male any
difference. A good student: may be
employed up to four hours a day.
provided she limits her extraecurri=
cular and social affairs, without af-
fecting the quality of her achieve-
ment.”"—Agsistant Dean Zoe Bay-
liss; U. of Wisconsin.

Spring Note of Faint Hope For

Greek Letter Men:

Out in the U. of Washington, they
are looking into the possibility ‘Of
the administration — withholding
academic credits from those stu-
dents who owe bills to their fra-
ternities,

iy

Clear As Mud Department

“Students should not try to work
their way through college. Those
who try are likley, to wreck their
careers, by the very means through
which they hope to chieve success.”
—Dean Nicholas D. McKnight, of
Columbia U.

“Students. are. so much happier
when they are working their way
through  school/’"—Dean E. E.
Nicholson, U, of Minnesota.

LETTER TO.
THE EDITOR

Dear Editor: -

For some time now we have been |
hearing much and arguing greatly
concerning the necde of the David-
son campus. Various needs have
been suggested. In only two cases,
however, have we had a public ex-
position of the reason these things
are needs. T refer to the infirmary
and the swimming pool.

«Much has been said about a So-
clal Center. What would be the
function of such a place? What lack
would it fill in our college life?

In athletics, besides a pool, we
have also discussed a field house
without a pool, and a new gym-
nasium. “What would these com-
prise, and how much improvement
would they be over our present
plant?

I would also like to hear some-

/thing said in defense—of a new

church,

What would an increased endow-
ment go for? Perhaps some of
those who voted for it could ex-
plain to us in what way it would
be superior to actually providing
some One definite lack.

All these causes and the- others
received student and alumnus sup-
Port. It would be, well worth while,
would it not, to present the reasons
for such support? Perhaps we will
be awakened to some crying need
that we had not realized, as in the
case of the infirmary.

..For a better Davidson,
R.A. T.

’
