THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25,-1936

HONOR ROLL

Tom Marchant Picks Bill Boyd and John Tice as
Stars of the Interfraternity Track Meet

SPORTS AFIELD

HONOR ROLL

Stewart Barnes Selects Bronston Kenney and Carlyle
Lewis as Varsity Tennis Stars

BALLG FLY Ra
DAVIDSON NINE
PENG SEASON

Varsity Sluggers Scheduled
For Practice Games Dur-
ing Holidays

COACH LAIRD CONFIDENT

Candidates Offer Lively Com-
petition in Infield

OFF TO FLORIDA!

Coach ; i ; i
SUL cite to-get-ot ¢.f 38
spring } the ba 4
\ snow 33 :
hh : 1 : rt
cal ne ad
ible etme ; ee > ¥
the W e ( ithe ey i
t ” , | out ast Pee
tar ( Hie ttt
ir g their Sa aed ¢
f to get si wt ea Peas =f ae Pai ade ,
ia } ae +44 |
nd 1
ign Beaten Fresh from a lop-sided win over Wofford, these racqueteers will leave Wednesday on an extended
a th 3 : Sy iM Southern tour. They are: left to right, Kenney, Barnett, Lewis, Frampton, Carlson, Manager Knox,
| » play the : |
(Scat netey = and Bell.
court tactic ;
Bronston Kenney, a  sopho- \I TRACKMEN TO
more, stepped into the ranks .
of orchid receivers by surviving . i ‘ AN
four rounds of the spring ten- MEET FURM 5
nis tournament and emerging ; will < {ee
At ibd Gilbane Kellam: at Varsity and Freshmen to Par- |
ES - g th sg ea y ticipate in Meet are
& ‘ if Ross, Snow, McClelland and : ae ia sened fat the National Intercollegiate
I | Maples Take First Match Phe var MY Util sors ta vt bib Olympic Wrestling tryouts held last
N : = ty season this altermoon in a meet ap at Washington-and Lee Uni-
t H ! { t We * eee ; 7 ‘ i man, College held at versity, Davidson College was rep-
e ( Baas) a (Ch caret bee) i. resented by its Captain, Leroy
s ( ; \\ ; f \pproximate forty ear Wy See Leroy ete das
<5 2wis, artin Bar- ‘ O 4 participated in the meet, this m-] a4 ranking of seventh among the
EL NTCHG aE Bell, ‘Rain Marks Close Of Mare | eek macelrelt atreshmen team ot rourteen] tifteen best! collegiate wrestlers in
Harry Frampton and Manager | Spring Gridiron Drills Catawba, was the/#thletes. The varsity team competed [his efass in the nation
Jim Knox will compose the | ———_ > ranma (ilaiaueunecar) CMG nts, ye the a BIRRUMIber eae ce ron TTP OhAAHiE
team this year. They are » ; ue MeClelland Alen Gre eiitered) in Uhinteens Inch capped throughout the meet by un-
planning to leave Davidson the Canes F D itl 7 B 2 eae familiarity with the Olympic rules,
early part of This Weel for their Ms 1 t | Davidson 0 he entries for the varsity run- This caused him to beat himself in
annual trip to Florida, Jake : _ ‘ 3 Snow = ere as follows: 100 yards, his first match before it was well
Morrow, member’of last year's i | le Catawba Dick Faison, Lafferty, M I-., under way Leroy won only. one
team, has also planned to make " ae eClelland, Davidsor patna REL Parker, (3 220° yards, Faison, match out of three, but the second
the trip and will take over the he Sie ya, O: Map David ‘ } Harrison; 440 yards, Johnson, O- F decision against him was unpopu-
No. 6 position ae Presby- Cou se Ee FO ARSC Alin COTE HATTIE ue eB ony ‘ i K ‘ 880 ae aa lar with both coaches and fans.
terian as Bell intends to par- i \ ’ ssc tO : j fordwmPoc ane ack; one mile, Bell, vars Degas as mereraiNepi
isipate in Davidson's track i ? ; D8 : ie : Gilks, Kuykendall.and Pharr; two Pesos pees Ive 2 ea
g : . DP, itawha : se >... ,orable comment from Coach Thor
meet with Furman which will t Prac les, END Brown and: pele ORTH GTeG GANTT ORE ais
rake lace Wy eaneesey: al Davidso irsity. golf. team me i ca Meat ade i gees Olympic team. Coach Schwartz of
set lable aeh i : oa ive Thursday on its northern Ms a yt ah 1 ne AY p a ; : ane Oklahoma Central Teachers College,
: : = @ lavin tel th’ Hamp SiaeD ey : = ; 3 Whose team placed second in the
2 : | Bio r ich For the feld event§, the follow meet, stated that he believed Leroy
Ri , 1 ay f Vir. | Ns. Men were—ente red in the var- would have won the tournament if
A : Ly ction: high jump, Barrow.) jt had been held under collegiate
Bt : ; Dick Wicker and Lee; broad mine
{ e jury Neksor elto ne 0;
“Plan your strokes ahead” t ( i ae Tea i ; ve iN ee Bi eo Fhe college does not plan to send
Don't use speed continuously st Ra feClela Six TATRA Cane riptan, Leray to the OMI finals to be
Don't rush the net except be t ( \ d M n I. Getta oe RESIEcINIEE E UA held at Bethlehem, Pa., but Coach
hind a forcing shot. ( \be ked ayy AVI 7, the BUC raCe Nimo ea etiiiel alimetenn Unger thinks that it would he ad-
Surprise your adversary. a Mar Tae ital Geli Raines visable for him to go. He believes
Don't over-attack your oppon- ( nel say Mca nen cee that with Sa work dur-
ent’s weakness. ird Q) Wa 1) RG ARa TT Tie eRe nT ing the next three weeks he could
1) avidso 1 n 3 es : mri tte *
Make no concessions to your i ) at Ne Rain Gea TTL make a very creditable show! ge
OSE tar (3) ‘ t rp, sar a al ne a ; th C. Mick Jim Hodgin also qualified for the
Play. the ball down ‘the center Haywood Le et ee Cele an Mane ANNBLL aebr yards Titec (ites: pue Ue cubitet cliter, «Coach
of your opponent's court. H ( Matt G Gray he Universit 1 Virginia ie Le : aa \I ens as \ Unger commented on Hodgin’s faid-
Anticipate your opponent's shot. H ( \ Wi \ ae 1 : 5 Ni AY ‘ ee | : ane ure to enter as follows: “Hodgin
Drive deep. lace ad \\ ie any RE Hae fia ee “Tlacks aggressiveness ile is con
Exercise self-control. ( : re OREM TRA aI Ta CE than pistent and steady enough but falls
Don't overlook the lob. af 5 : he played tet Irie re ane , Aare are absolutely sential to win with
Don't take chances when you 1 dej teat t Ca t Golt Ae fe inert ! “es ‘anil ie Ric . the type of rules used in this
Bre WIRRAEL ; e te tournaments, (shot put, Warden, Jolingon'and Me-| semen
Above all—be a good sport. t If cotiegiate tournamen ee ’
Wwe qa 1 ) } ( Gr Bill i reed , ; on | Clella discus, MeClennan; jave : —————
re cat 1 Pete d Warde 1 the le and the University of Geor- |. Johnson and MeCtertair Assets of Temple University, Phil-
ewe Sriyfaezosaeneroilite) t vertl on April 9, the University AHO ; ra Alast i adelphia, have risen $6,000,000) in
Greenville for a meet with Furman.|}))!} pears to have a Ca olit a here ol 1 10,] ae : a a i ce fae ie ten years
Aiba Theta squad will have it aate at left end, and the fl mpden-Sydney here on April)?" ; ae paaeaes ol a scarlet satay poem eT
nesses particularly in the weight g for the other _w posi During the following week the | Sever Cpidemic =a oaerie an
Aid INtONG-GFtwo cf the rune The {tion will be Nicholson, Dick Cathey, feltysof North Carolina 6releS Wee epee \ntiquated® “band-box gymnas-
Feoeihcauadin toliat et the | Bob McClellan, and Ned Iv 7, and Wofford here on no oM. T. T. chemical avarfare-}iums are to blame for the mediocre
He \ ue : 4 ; Theta taclecieldeet iceman the southern trip, | Cltss ava routed recently when brand of basketball played in New
pound Olen aL wa sant z carrying duties will fall t » been made with Em-]o0Meone tossed a regulation army] England, says Al McCoy, coach of
ese Peis AU ae ae hie Datrent ind Charlie Scars The liversity in Atlanta on April] te@t-gas bomb into the room Northeastern University, Boston.
to imelhgibiltyv rules Ws WI ne- M feria . ' ; F

cessitate some “doubling up” whicl
will hamper chanees for success
Anyway, the ‘Cats are out to sec

what's what.

Leroy Blackwelder, on returning
from his second t in two year
to Lehigh University for the na
tional nat tourney, had an unusual
story to tell about his trip. It seems
that Leroy,’ although in a position
for pinning’ his opponent, momen-
tarily forgot that he ghting
under the Olympic rules (which are

somewhat different from the col

legiate way of ‘wrestling) and not

realizing the danger he was in, was

pinned before he realized his error.
However, he still vows that he can

lick his

rules,

opponent undee collegiate
Leroy has taken on his last
match as a representative of

this school and is, without a

doubt, one of the best ever wit-

nessed at Davidson.

This, incidentally, is “ye olde swan
song,” finis, in the Sport Staccato
business, and henceforth, Yates Fai-
son, a lad from the “Queen: City of

other men to fill out the backfield
will cc from Dennis, Corbin,
Arm fie «Hand, Stair, Frank

Harrison lip

Harrison, and Bill
Beatty
Point toward that opening

game with Duke next

fall, the fall

ce Will begin September first

n spring

report at

he Sout! will nduct. thi }

Yates!

mn. Luck to you,

in the second annual S

Intercollegiate tournament to, be

in Athens on April 23,,24 and

\ match has been tentatively
arranged with the University of | |
} Carolina to be played there ee

n April 29, and a match has been

finitely set with North Carolina

University of Ge

son April 22) The

weiam

team will
uthern

a ce Lie eevee AT YOUR OLD SUIT

pees ; See yourselves as others see you.
1, Raleigh on Mav 1 + S

Then come to our store-for the

| DRUGS) -

CANDIES

White Drug Store

MAKE OUR STORE YOUR STORE

: ~ latest . fashions in University
Make Charlotte’s New-

est Men’s Store your headquar-

Clothing.

PRESCRIPTIONS
ters and meeting place while in
Charlotte,

MARION DAVIS COMPANY

205 SOUTH TRYON STREET

S. P. E.”S WIN HONORS
IN FRATERNITY MEET

NETMEN DOWN
TERRIERS, 9-0

Kenney, Lewis, Barnett, Carl-
son, Bell and Frampton
Swamp Opponents

Davidson's 1936 tennis team open-
ed its season in highly successful
fashion Monday
sweeping their match with Wofford
by a 9-0 score

afternoon — by

All six singles matches were run
off in decisive straight set style,
the hardest match occurring in the
No. | position, where J. H. Mitchell,
ace of the Spartanburg team, ex-
tended Bronston Kenney to a deuce
set before The
doubles matches were also all won

in straight sets by the 'Cat netmen,

yielding, 8-6

but the No, 1 affair was a long-
drawn out deuce affair in which
Kenney and Carlyle Lewis were

hard put to eke out a 9-7, 10-8 vie-
tory over Mitchell and Bill Prince,
former high school doubles cham
pions of South Carolina.

Captain Lewis, who played in the
number two singles position, by rea-
son of his upset defeat at the hands
of Kenney in the school tournament
finals Saturday, showed he had not
lost his touch as he trouced Prince,
6-0, 6-1,

Other
lows:

matches resulted as fol
Martin Barnett defeated Sny
der, 6-3, 6-3; Carl Carlson defeated
Ritter, 6-0, 6-3; Bill Bell defeated
Garvin, 6-4, 6-2; Harry Frampton
defeated Thompson, 6-3, 6-3: Bar
nett and defeated Snyder
and Ritter, 6-0, 6-13. Frampton and
Bell defeated
son, 6-1, 6

Carlson

Garvin and Thomp

6

Fight men, the six who played
in the Wofford meet and Jake Mor-
row and Jim Knox, manager, will
make a nine day tour starting Wed-
nesday ;: playing in order, Presby
terian, Geor Tech, Emory, Mer
Conner Or ida, Rollins
of South Carolina.

&
Flor and U

Newton Guides Tactics
Of Freshman Batsmen

The freshman field was again the
scene of activity Monday afternoon
when twenty-two boys reported to
Coach Newton to
baseball practice.

begin freshman

Among those who have had form-
er experience are Hand and Hicks,
both outstanding members of the
American Legion Junior team, win-
ner of the Little World Series. Fred
Stair of knoxville, Tenn., is ex-
make a strong bid for
the position of pitcher, Others .re
porting were: Steere, Craver, Rob-
erson, Campbell, Hefnphill, White,
Walker, Benfield, Deaton,
Fowler, Carter,

pected to

Pope,
Johnson, Young,
Kornegay, Chalk, McCall and Con-
nor.

scheduled
games with the Carolina freshmen
at Chapel Hill, and with the Ashe
ville School for Boys at Asheville
These are the only games that will
not be played here at Davidson.

Coach ~ Newton has

A.B. DeGree is the
Williston, N. D.,

name of a
man,

Track Winners Tally 28 Points;
Phi Gams Second and
Pikas Third

TICE IS HIGH POINTER
Boyd Takes Field Events,
Scoring 14 Points
Taking four out of twelve events
the Sigma Phi Epsilon team won
the inter-fraternity track meet last
Wednesday afternoon, The SPE’S
led with 28 while the Phi
took with 22,
The Pikas scored 18 points, and the
Betas, Phi Delts

tallied 16
Boyd, Gregory, and John-

pomts,

Gams second honors

and Kappa Sigs

Tice,
son all placed in two firsts. Johnny
Tice, SPE, held high scoring hon
ors in the meet with a total of 1444
hundred yard

points, taking the

dash and the low hurdles, placing

second in the broad jump, and run

ning on the winning relay team.
The hundred yard dash

in eleven seconds, Tice finished first

Was run

with Knorr, Sample, and Woodward
Sample, SPE, won the
Abbott, Beta,
was second, and Branton and Vog

following.

220 vard dash in 25:7.

ler, Phi Gams were third and fourth.

Gregory, Phi won the 440
56:5 and also the 660
in 1:37. Knorr, Pika, placed second
in the 440. KA, took third
and Abbott, Beta, was fourth. John-
ston, NWA, Cleveland, Pikagand Hipp,

Gam,
yard run in

Lutz,

Kappa Sig, followed Gregory on the
600 vard run.

Phe 120 vd. low hurdle event was
with Boyd, Phi Delt,

Kappa Sig, second

taken by Tice,
McLaurin,
third. The
Was fifteen seconds,

and

and time on the race

The field events went to the Phi
Delts with Boyd scoring 14 of his
team’s total of 16 points. Boyd
won the broad jump with a twenty
foot one inch leap. He also threw
the discus 101 feet 3 inches to take
that event In the

he placed

javelin throw
fourth
Tice, Knorr and Carlson, Kappa
Sig, placed in the broad jump also
second, third, and fourth. Ben-
field, Beta, followed Boyd in the
discus and won the shot. Miller and
Reid, Phi Gams, also scored in the
discus, and Miller placed second
Benfield’s 41) foot 11) inch
put with the shot. Hotlpin and
Crisp, Pikas, took the other places
in the

behind

event

Johnson, Kappa Alpha, won the
high jump at 5 feet 2 inches. Dur-
ham and Arnold, Pikas, and Hipp,
Kappa Sig, tied for second. Johnson
tied with Mosely, Kappa Sig, in the

javelin with 143° feet 7 inches.
Steere, Beta, was third and Boyd
took fourth. Johnson scored 1114

points in the meet for one of the
highest totals

Harry Kuykendall, Kappa Sig,
mile run in
first. Smith, SPE,
Fustehberger, Phi Delt, and Hig-

gins, another Kappa Sig, followed

ran the three
4:01:5 for a

quarter

him in crossing the finish,
The half-mile relay was the cli
max of the afternoon as six teams

competed, The SPE’s turned in a
time of 1:46:2, while the Phi Gams
finished second, Betas third, and
Pikas fourth. The winning team

(Continued on Page 6)

lee-cold
every day in the year

the corner from anywhere.

Thirst knows no season —and the most
delicious answer to thirst is tingling,
sparkling, ice-cold Coca-Cola. Around

Delicious and Refreshing

