Triumph....

though no official invitation has been issued

or aceepted. Davidson was last week elected to
membersiup in the Southern Interscholastic Con-
ference. A triumph which took several years
ot petitioning and requesting to be ‘realized, but
one that was well worth the importunate efforts
of Davidson athletic orficials, despite the extreme
fcontinement embodied in the “Graham Plan.”
recently adopted by the Conference.
+ Davidson, as a, member of the Southern Con-
ference, will be atvorded a portion of well de-
served publieity in the athletic world, that she
& tormerly didn't have. Her many brilliant, but
unheralded, athletes will begia to be more widcly
recognized, and the college will be more attractive
to alucents aspiring to athletie competition.

Mererstnp in this association showid stimu-
late interest within the eollege itselt. There will
be wo very imposing chanwpionstip tities for
which every team cau work, 3¢ Davidson aecepts
its bid to the Conterence. This should ereate
more spirited and enthusiastic support af the
vations athletie organizations by the Davidson
students,

li 1s needless to mention the record of David-
sam icams which have competed with Southern
Conterenee schools in the past. ft is quite gen.
erally Inown that this record is acvery imposing

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collegiale Press = *

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Chartlottc. North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES |
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

duntered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Cavolina, under the act of March dred, 1$79

B

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

muse be in the lands of Managing Editors by 2:0) o'clock
pom. Monday Letters to the EBditor are welcome, but all
communications intended for pubheation must be signed.

LAMONT BROWN
R. P. MORROW, Jr.

------.---Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jin) Morton. -- _-Managing Editor | one. of which. Dayidson is proud. and when com-
Howrtt Overton Managing, Editor| periton begins with Davidson a member of the
yakor SUGG.~. gg paver organization we believe that she will launch upon
DAYMOND TURNER. lagi 2 a'r! career as one of the top notchers in this group.
Joun Winn ee. »- Managing Editor}’, Tais iall i her nine football ;
Harry Kuykenxpat -Sports Editor| ” tits fall seven of her mine tootball games arc
Martin BARNET ...tssociate Editor | with teams in the Conterenec, which should be an
Harvuy. Grass_- issociate Editor) exeellent starting point for the attainment of
8 Paut Harian- ---Issociaic’ Edilor| hangers, im the new group.
Tost MAaRcinaNnt... -vlysociate Editor a
Jounx Watrktr.--_-- -elssgriate Editor “ee *
a . ar

In order to give'a representative idea of how
. BUSINESS STAFF vpiion is manning on the capus with regard
Cuaries Mayze Circulation Alanagcr|to Davidsonis entrance into the Conierence, the
But Sworr...-' reidation Manager Tollowing Statements have been secured;

ANCE... alation 1 . Paar . a

Bon VaNxck.~-~ __ tation Manager! the first is by Gr, (Calter £: Linoie, an ahum-
Hoke Ronixson LLL. clivertising Manager . ;
Bu tin... Collection Manager| 9s of Davidson and now Presjdent of the

Manager | College.

“Oy course we are ercatly pleased by:the fact
that Davidson was clected to membership in the.
Southern Conterence. No-otticial notice of our
election haS vet been received and thereiore 1 do
not know what conditions if any are attached!

“{ note in the newspaper that a copy of the

. ‘Graham Plan’ will be attached to cach invita -
Paragraphics ocee tion. [ heartily agree with the Graham Plan in

The University of Nort \arotina has for the ( prineiole. There may be a few details that 1
past few months been waking a thoroagh house. vould modiiy., sa matter of fact Davidson has
Cleaning. Jt began’ wiliaJ residest Frank Gra-theen practicing almost everything embodied in
hant's celebrated plak stcleaning up athletics. {ae Graham Plan now for these many years.
The honor system was revised a few wecks ago} “1 have no douht that Davidson will accept this
when several stuckis were dismissed’ for Par- | invitation to membership in the Conterenec.

ticipating in a cheating ring, which had become | \iembership carries with it. some very distinet
almost traditional at the state unwersity, Tha: | alvantages.”

inarked the second. retormation move. while a
third measure was adopted last week when the | ;,
Student Couneil-voted to abotisty all forms of haz-
ing on the campus. This final stey was based
upon a regtiation of the Board of Trustees...
which staies that every university stndent mus:
conduet himself as-a gentleman, Fhe Couneii
telt chat hazing was an “ungentlemanly aet.”

Every college needs to ‘clean house” occasion-
ally, but let's hope that Davidson wiil never ger
cluttered with as much dust as Carolina. evidently.
was hetore its clean-swecping council tegan to
Tunetion.

tint -Dverir. iant Dusiuess

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY

12

1936

1 false witness shall not bi unpunished, and he
that speaketh lies shall not escape, Prov, 19:5,

a

The second statement is by Professor FL.
iyite, who is also a graduate of Davidson. and
iS Now graduate naanager of athletics ait the
jCallege.. >

“We are elad that the Southern Conierence
hem mvited Davidson to become a member of that
important organization, and we shall, | am sure.
accept the bid. We appreciate the interest of our
triends and their eftoris to get Davidson inte the
Conterenee, -

We have always playcd some five or six Con-
terenec teams in foothail. as well as competing
with them in other intercollegiate sports. But
nembership in the Southern Conferenee will give
us some advantages that we do not now have. As
atnember of this body we shall be cligible to enter
ihe Conterence mects in the various sports. such
as baskethall, track, wrestling. tennis, cte. Our
teams will receive. perhaps. a litle more publicity
and greater recognition in the world of sports.”

Heary Cathey. President of the Adhietic Asso-
ciation, Co-Captain of football in “35 and a mem-
ber of the Davidson College Senior Ciass makes
ive third and final statement.

“For a number of years Davidson College ha
couglt admission into. the tanks of setigals inotd-
ing membership in the Southem Conference.
Naturally Davidson officials believe that by being
numbered among these schools the college would
gain a boost in prestige and standing.

qking Vietor Finmanuel 11 of Italy recency
very wisely conicciured, “I have nothing to lose
and everything to gain from the outcome of ny
countrys struggle with Kiniopia, Li we win |
will be King of Ethiopia, ii we lose I] will be King
— —aP Ttaly.”
lt has been suggested that the name of the
“Graham Plan” be changed to the “Dam: Plan.”
because it cuts off the tlow of every possiole
means of income to athletes at all Southern Con-
terenee Colleges. According to the strictest in-
terpretation of the newly adopted system it inakes
—an atliete incligible who. terrows money with
which to pay his college experses.
= *

nO

Unclaimed Davidson Centlecraa. Fhose wh» “AL its t ti h
“boo, or whistle sareastically, at referee's de- Ns recent mecting the Conierence voted

cisions on the baskeitall court, and those who, ‘° extend. an invitation to’ Davidson. along wath
aliow alarm clocks to sound in the auditorium | "© others, to become members of the. Confer-
while a visitor is addressing the student body, ~ \°° Now the query has arisen. sho:tid Davidson
join. This ouery bas been brought abou: by the
; 7 - creauly publicized Graham Plan.

South Carolina has the iughest ithteracy rate]- «the purpose of the Graham Pan-was to de-
in the United States. according toa study by Prof. stroy the: practice of paying athletes on tke sol
James Karl Coleman. basis of their athietic chilite, The sree
basis of their athletic abitiry. This purpose is cer-

* ‘tainly bighly commendable. but 1 do delieve that

Phi Betas arent social Voves, says De. Clarence | the plan has gone to the extreme in tuling what
W. Young, Colgate psychologist. He's studied | alumni aid shall be forbidden and that the athlete
the question for ycars. shall be given no preference over the non-athlete
in the awarding of jobs abcut the college cainpus.
‘Would Davidson suffer by going into the Con-
ference under the present rulings? She would to

+e

a

eH

x ke *

An additional allotment of §$10.000,000 to the

NYA' has bcen given governmental approval.

i“g

* * #

' school should reject its bid. -
Harvard has a collection of 300 books. on the Sour Peject its bid. In the past a few stu
famous ‘South Sea Bubble” swindle. It was
made by Hugh Bancroft, publisher of The IW all

ptreet Journal.

loans from the alumni, but not a large number.
Certainly no athlete here receives aid from the
college itself,”

“ knows

a certain degree, but not to the extent that the

‘lents have been aided in getting an education by

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1936

DAVIDSON
OFF THE

By DAYMOND TURNER
Expensive ... .

A cigarette fiend at -Loyola Uni-
versity delved into higher mathe-'
matics the other day tu find how much
it cost him to smoke. Ile made the
startling digcovery that he could ¢n-
joy forty-five more dates a year if
he would abstain from smoking. Ac-
cording to this statistician, the aver-
age student on the Loyola campus
snokes about 1 packages a week (his
own or his friends) which amounts to
about 520 packs a year. A cost of

_ $93.00. Now figure “but how much
y) al: his dates cost him.
94 HAROLD SUGG “7°

Domestic ...

The Villanovan reports Ghat sixty
co-eds at Lowa State University were
stricken ill after sampling some of
their own concoctions in a home
‘ecunotnies class. Any one who would
print such a -statement during leap
year just cant have a heart.

LITTLE WIT
AND NO MATTER

Gradually-but with a bit of tinality,
the character of coliege lite has been
attered, The Depression, tighter purse
strings and jnevitable reaction have
given the College Boy (no lounger Ceal-

lich Boy) a seriousness he did not —Hlorida Flambeau, _
previously possess. Look backwards ¢* ¢
and yet will remember characters ]‘Pan’ .. .

whose counterparts dré vot new in col-
lege. The tone of college is different:
there is a strain of melancholy, and
Mood allegretto has displaced Mood
allegro. Everybody is studying. and,
everybody is) scared.
YEA, BROTHER

We sympathize with last week's edi-
torial weiter who is not an adept
player o. that thrilling but fruitless
game of getting to the Book Store
when it is open, Breathes there a
man at Dawidson who has not bad that
tritstrating experience? There ought
to be jour seeretaries in charge of,
the Book Store. ‘Then they could all
play bride and the dommy could
wait on those meele and righteously
timid students who Wave classes and
writs before the next time interval.
CHIGOES IN LIFE’S FOREST

Jorrawing our sub-head irom one | Toler

From the Crimson and (White comes
the following definition of the word
face: “A fertile, open expanse, lying
midway between collar and sealp, and
full of chin, check and chatter, The
crop of the male face is hair, har-
vested daily with lather, or allowed
sto run to mutton chops, spinach, or
full curtains, The female face prodd-
uct is powder, from whence the ex-
pression ‘Shoot off your face.’ Each
is supplied with lamps, snufflers, and
bread boxes.”

oo
Sunny South...

The height of optimise. the Etor-
ida student musing by the fireside as
tu how the mosquitoes at home are
ireezing to death.

—Daily Tar Heel.
¢*¢ @
Pat

o

ance ,..

t oour protessor’s chapel talks, we : - -
, ° in o i" ai m ‘ i, ia jroadminded father: “ii my son
Tere th Presed), Juriner classifi- . . +
; present , makes good in college, its hereditary ;
cation of DPestiierous Peesonages, °

| those intriguing individuals that4nake
College Late so piquant. Number vent
PP is The Popular Song Hound, who.
the first line of every
published within two weeks, Never,
however, has the Popular Song Hound
been known to know the second line

always believe in looking at both sides
of every question Then there

was the mother who: “Son, do | smelt
song

of any sung. He serves his economic
, purpose, for alter hearing the first line
30 Many times, you finally go mad and
‘buy a song shect. There is ong on
evory Tall °

Kumbee clever) Pestiferous  Per-
somage is amideru tely known as The

. By ARNOLD SERWER
(.lssoctated Collegiate Préss
Correspondent)

Washington, D..C.—Study of the
Door .tristoerat, When you hold the | seating arrangement of the Senate for
door open for “him, he walks through | ihis session reweals that the smal?
and leaves you holding the door. The | yroup of Uherat Senators are seated
por Aristocrat is very polite. He]togethee in what almost appears to be
sitys, “Thank You’ as fe saunters | purposeiul arrangement. At no time
L past in the past have they been so close
Among that variegated collection ot} each other. The grouping in a
assoricd oddity known as the Fresh- way suggests the mannec in which the
man Class there is a peeutiarly no-| party represematives in the French
torious group of, PPs, individually |} Chamber. of Deputies ate seated, with
knatin-as Phe Happy-Hooliaan. This | members of the same parties clustered
PP wears his f[fesh cap somewhat in | together de does.
the manner of a tomato can with the Thére is no Gasis for supposing that
aa epen top protruding upward. Wap- {the tiberais in the Senate maneuvered
py Hooligan would save wear on his] (or position, but whether it was ac-
eap and achieve the same rebults itteident that brought then: together of
he wore a hell or just brayed when | merely the fact that the Senators ieel
he amet an upperclassman. There is} most natural in the company of fel-
another class ot irosh who in the | low liberals, the fact retnains that on
vule-tide spirit ot Ye holidays have! the leit side of the eChamber, starting
largotten the necessity OF cap-wearing. | with the last row and moving to the
Paging Mr. Purnell!
DREAMS AFTER THE BALL uesota Farmer Laborite, Senator Bo-
We didn’t realize fully what.a great | rah, classed with the liberals usually
week-end was Mid-Winters until we} but often found in other camps, Sen-
heard Freddy Martin from the Ata-|ator La Kotlette, Wisconsin Progres-
gon Us week-end. And after hear-/ sive. and Senator Nye, liberal Repub-
ing the low tenor sax harmonies of ;Jican from N. D. In the row ahead
Freddy Martin, tae following orches-

s Cazes,” Michigan Republican with
amel cake would taste, or like a sax-| quite frequent liberal tendencies, and
ophonist biting a too ripe banana. Mis | in {rent of Borah is Norris, one of the
schedule over WGI is approximately | Senate's outstanding liberals. Senator
this: From, Tuesday through Sat- | Bensea. Farmer Laborite Appointed to
urday, 11:30. Saturday also at 9:30} take the place of Senator Schall of
and on Sunday at 6:15 and 11:15. Minnesota, killed last month by an au-
THE WEARY END iomobile, is“at the extreme leit in the

We are waiting for the first news |(ront row, seareely within shouting
of spring irom one Joheazry “Birds | distance of nis fellow Hberals, where
Eve View" Watkins. The ondy trou- be was placed because of the recency of
lite is that this snowy weather has | his advent into the Senate. .

Johnny so+ confused. Peregrinations | The Senators on the Democratic
to P. C.: Bailey Williams, lago Nich- | side of the Chamber, with liberal ten-
Bobby Peters, Jim Knox, | dencies, are scattered. Senator Wag-
Boohy Arrowsmith and Hoibert Wil- | ner of New York is buried in a group
lis. Stay on the right side of the road, | of conservatives. Senator Costigan
brothers. is behind him and a few séats to the

Somebody said that a no-break and | leit. in the last row. Senator Holt,
a girl-break dance were the  sante | whom many believe will line up with
things. Greensboro} No-Breaks: Tom] the ltberals in the coming session,
Marchant, Jim Batte, Major Clarke, |is in the last row in next to the last
Mac Davis and Sky Cline. And-Flin- ;seat on the right. On his right in that
du (one-two, one-two) was back jlast seat is Semator Bilbo.
again. We don't know why, we hate There are probably no strategic
to-do it, but somebody asked that we | advantages for the fberals arising
mention Henry “Scum of the Earth" {irom the fact what they are-clustered
Mills. Tom Croucho Corbin writes | together, yet in secing them together
his “You're Welcome” letter before | in one gtoup an impression is leit when
the “Thank You” arrives. Teeny } their individual records are recalled
Lafferty fights the King Snake at|of cohesion, symbolized by their prox~-
Concord. Why.is St. Francis the pa-|imity if by nothing else.
tron saint of Davidson Men? .*

Some day I'm going to write this
stuff reverse the usual order to foil
that host of simple-minded mud grub-
bers. who only read the last para-
graph.

ulson,

The word cohesion serves to recall
the fact that this ‘is a quality sadly
lacking among the local Young Dem-
ocrats. Starting as one large group of
zealous young politicians several years

STOLEN THUNDER

if he doesn't, it is environment. 1}

Around Washington

leit one finds Senator Shipstead. Min-

% on
tobacco on your breath?” .

¢- ¢ ¢

Poetry ...

. 1.
When you first saw. this
You probably thought
It was a poem,

2 a,
By this time you have
Surely found out
That it isn’t.

3.

Isn't it funny how
Reople will keep
Right on reading when
They know darn wel;

They are being fooled.

—Reveille.
¢h6}]6hUCU +
Hangovers ...

Someone has estimated the value
of a college cglucation at $72,000. What
about a quarter advance? . . . De-
hating a Duke this year is under
sponsorship of the various social fra-
ternities Drug-store cowboy’s
theme sowg: “Take Me Back to My
Booths and Prattle’ 7... PLC. is
still annoyed by a campus fireburg.

. Interfraternity Couneil ruling at
Washington and Lee has fimited hell-
week activities to three days .
A.B. DeGree is the name of Williston,
N. D. man. . . Columbia's class of
1935 is 35 per cent employed... A
cnurse in radio broadcasting was re-
cently added to the curriculum at
hoyola |. Students by the name of
smith have been cnrolied in Mississi-
ppi State College for the past fiity-
juur years... You have never real-
ized the possibilities of a man un-
ul 2 woman mekes a fool of him.
A yawn is onty a gap in the
conversation You can't push
yoursei!t ahead by patting yourself on
the back. 2 2.

avo, under the name of the District of
Columbia “Voutig” Deinocratic Club,
this body has spent the past year in
striving to move in all directions at
once. Most of the disputes arose over
Klocal organization clections but later
on one seemed to remember very well
what the original causes of contro-
versy were. tfowever that may be,
the controversies increased and soon
the parent body was developing re-
bellious offshoots = which — presently
‘broke away. as- indeperdent bodies.
Meetings became turbulent, with dis-
senters continually arisiag and throw-
ing wrenches into the machinery in
the way of claims of by laws ailec-
edly violated.

According to tatest reckouings there
are now jour or five groups of Young
Democrats here. cach group claun-
ing that it alone has been appointed
to advance the ¢ause of Democracy.
From first to last the local effort suf-
iered_ from a surfeit of very young
eftiee-holding lawyers and — crack
parliamentarians who bogged the
whole thing dows by throwing tech-
nical obstructions into the path of the
steering group by objecting shemsel ves
hine in the -face to every step talsen,

in front of Shipstead, is found Senator

and to a steering group whose idea
ofinspiring leadership was the con-
stant repeating of Jempty catchwords
about the. New Deal and loyalty to
this, that and the. other.

Probably not one member in ten
had any-gaod notion of the implica-
tions of the New Deal and the de-
tals of the administration program.
And. without tniormation about their
dwn program they're faiting to make
converts for their side. Far greater
solidarity exists among the Young Re-
publicans. tor all their disputes over
favorite sons and Kbcralism versus
conservatism, than is found among

.. “¥es,
mother.” “Well, you'll have to stop
going out with those girls.”

oo ¢ ¢
Also Speaking ...

College bred: A four year loaf with
plenty of crust made out of Dad's
dough . . . Add similes: as fousy
as the love scene of a Saturday
movie,

i—Old Gold and Black..
e

000000O OOOOH OOOEEESOECOOEO OOOO OEOO

THIS
COLLEGIATE
WORLD

(By ggissociaicd Collegiate Press)

Ouite unaccountably, we find our-
selves with a sudden rush to the head
of stories ahout absent-minded col-
lege professors. We do not recall
where the stories originated, nor whom
they concerned, but our remembrance
a? all of them suggests that there
is a basis, of truth for each one.
*

@ COSHH OOEECEHOSOSILO
Seeecesecoeososee

a *

We know, for example, of the pro-
iessor in a small town college who
traveled 50 miles away to another
campus to observe a pasketball_ game.
As the game broke up. a man from
his home town soffered the professor
a ride home. He accepted, with grat-
titude. No sooner did he set his foot

on his front porch than he realized he

had driven his own car to the other
city.
“Since he had to teach the next
morning, be. sent his wife @TMthe ‘train-
to gct his car and drive it home.
So he stopped in at the depot and
bought his wife a round tsip ticket !
+
We-reeall the story of another man,
a German professor, who was sitting
ina raitway depot- with his wile, wait-
(Continued on Page 6)

* 4

Previa)
e

Compare the

NEW S-

From Davidsonians
of Years Gone By

2006600000608 O18

Foeeecse cesses eseseeseHeeseeseesOoe

1931

Drv. H. Wertenbaker, professor ——

of history at Princeton, speaks to
the students and faculty on "Our
Democracy and its Future” .
The Freshman ciass: following the
advice of eampns leaders votes wo
to elect a president until late in
March .  . Tenry 1. Seibert, or-
wanist at the New York Town Hall,
will give a concert here on Feo.

Wo... De. W. IL Frazier, presi-
dent of Quéens-Chicbra — College,
leads “Y" yesper service .”. “Cats”

will play State and ‘Carolina this
week to decide Big Five standings.
Davidsen and State are ted in the
lead naw’... Sigma Alpha Epsilon
wins fraternity basketball tourna-
ment... Debating try-outs are held
and the following men are selected
to make up the varsity team: J. A.
Jones, W. Rule, P. S. Knox, J. C.
Matthers, R. D. Powell and G. P.
Pardington,

1926
Guilford defeated as Wildcats”
open a fast attack in the first pe-
riod... Dr. Dunbar YW. Ogden of
Mobile, Ala. chasen to odnduct7 Y.
M. CLA. revival services ,.. Junior
Speakng will be held Apri 145. The
program is announced ... The base-
balt schedule is announced and it in-
cludes a game with Dartmouth, to
be played in March... The Faculty
reteets a surdent motion to lower
the passing grade from 75 to 70. The
motion wag made because the pass-
ing grade had been raised trom 60
to 75 and the students thought tliat
a jump of 15 points was unfair...
7) men-report for spring football...
The Hon. J. Stitt Wilson, former
Mayor of Berkly, Calif., delivers five
lectures at Davidson on the Tech-
nique of Spiritual Life.

1921
The North Carolina Intercolle-
niate Press Association holds its
mecting at Chapel Hill. Eleven col-
leges were represented . , .
men

Many
respond to the first call for
track candidates .. The basketball
team was defeated by Virginia,
Etk’s Club and Washington and Lee
'. Davidson College Magazine
is to come out soon... F. V, Long
and C. Kk. Brown will speak at ves-
pers this Sunday.
1916
Annual will be completed
. Neal, Patton. Smith and
Thames will compose Davidson's
debating team this year... Frosh
tie Seniors and Sophs to win class

~The
soon .

the Young Democrats. in Washing- | football tournament .. . Statesville
ton. . . defeats the basketbalt team, 39-33.
e =

| — BUSINESS
SOCIAL
RULING

BINDING
ENGRAVING

5

PRINTING FOR EVERY PUROPSE

STANDARD
PRINTING
COMPANY

117 Garland Court

Phone 3-5727

me

Representatives
Lamont Brown = R. P. Morrow

|
