TOSC tu'van-

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1936

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSONIAN LOOKS
BACK ON 24 YEARS
OF EXISTENCE HERE

F. W. Price of China, Honored
With Selection as First
Editor

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

wie Publication; World
War Begin in Same Year

Do you know what happened
in 1914? The World War be-
gan! Yes, but more important,
the Davidsonian was first pub-
lished !

It was in a student body meeting,
March 18 of that year, that a large
group of enthusiastic students de-
cided to add to their literary publi-
cations, the annual (Quips and
Cranks) and the magazine (David-
son College Magazine), a
newspaper.

Chooses First Editor

Many names were submitted for
the proposed publication, but “Dav-
idsonian” wag chosen because of
the fact that it embraced college
spirit, classes, and activities, every-
thing about Davidson. The first
issue appeared on April ~1,; 1914,
with F, W. Price of China as edi-
tor-in-chief and J, P. Williams as
assistant. The next year Williams,
now professor of business adminis-
tration here, became the editor.

That first
articles on its front page:

weekly

had four main
(1) lit-
erary society elections and (2) base-
ball season review,

issue

both represent-
ing student interests; (3) Woodrow
Wilson's reception of college Presi-
dent Martin,
to alumni; and

interest
(4) civic
ments in Davidson, a subject of in-
the To
those three groups, students, alumni
the David-
to cater.

of primarily

improve-
terest to townspeople.
and townspeople,
tried

early
sonian

The first issues were made
four pages four columns each.
Then the paper took
on each of its pages. Next, six five-
column pages, and then eight. The
number of pages then dropped back
to six, but the number fo columns
é * and then, iast year, to

up of
of

five columns

seven,

The Davidsonian is now in its 24th

volume, and each passing issue
works “for a better Davidson!”
For many years the paper has

sponsored improvements in the col-
lege life and has brought about a
better understanding between the
faculty and the students,

LIGHTING FIXTURES
ELECTRICAL
APPLIANCES

GROCERIES

M. H. GOODRUM
& CO.
Zenith and RCA Radios

LA

It is now recognized as an estab-
lished fact that the first X-ray pic-
United States
Un-
til recently Yale University has con-
tested this statement, but lately
withdrawn her claims.

The X-ray made three
students of the class of 96, Osmond
Har-

Pender

ture ever made in the

was made at Davidson College.

has

was by

Barringer of Charlotte, Eben
die, of New Orleans,
of Brooklyn. For a long
time the boys kept the picture hid-
den as they had stolen the equip-
ment with which the picture was
made from the college laboratories.
On producing the picture they dis-

and
Porter

covered that they had made history
for Davidson College, and were in

no danger of expulsion, as they had

feared. Mn

The ‘making of the first X-ray
picture came about in this man-
ner: The Physics students of the
college had become very much in-
terested in the study of Crooke’s
tubes, a very expensive bit of ap-
paratus which had been recently

added to the laboratory. Dr. Roent-
gen made his announcement of the
termed ‘“sha-
made by
Crooke’s tubes, on January 4,

of what he
dow-pictures,”

discovery
the use of
1896.
There was much discussion of the
truth of the

statement among the

students, so one night the three
boys mentioned before decided to
try the experiment themselves.

They broke into the Physics labor-

atory, secured the tubes, and took

MERRY CHRISTMAS
Johnson’s Barber Shop

“A Tradition of

”

Davidson Men

WARNER BROS.

BROADWAY

Now Showing
Through Sat.—

Rosalind
* RUSSELL

—in—

“CRAIG’S WIFE”

John
BOLES

oN

4 Days—Mon-Tue-Wed-Thurs
Rec. 21-22-23-24th

A Sensational Expose of
PAROLES

Lewis Stone, Bruce Cabot, James
Gleason, Louise Latimer

“DON’T TURN
"EM LOOSE”

Opening Xmas Eve
PREMIER SHOWING OF

Gold Diggers of 1937

NOTE—You can buy tickets
now in advance for this show.
All seats—40c.

 )
STAGE and SCREEN
SHOW

CO
Stage ON THE STAGE
Shows HARRY CLARK'S
sur HIT
At
ae PARADE
7:20 17—PEOPLE—17
9:40 +. . presenting an ALL
STAR/UNIT of YOUTH
re - CHARM . . .BEAU-
TY’... and SPEED!
[|
ON THE SCREEN e
JAMES GLEASON
ZASU PITTS pea
in SATURDAY
“The Plot Thickens” °

Matinee

25¢

Night

35c

AERA

&! HEAT ALY

MON.,-TUES,
ROBERT YOUNG

Florence Rice — Joseph Calleia
athe

“SWORN ENEMY”

DAVIDSON CLAIM
TO FIRST X-RAY
PHOTO GRANTED

Three Davidson Men Undisputed Pioneers in X-Ray Photog-
raphy as Yale Finally Withdraws Her Claims to
Scientific Honor

them to their experiment room.

Ai-
ter their first picture, of familiar
objects, had proved a-sueeess they
secured the band of a dead negro,

which was being used medical
shot a bullet
X-ray of the

Henry Louis Smith, then pro-

for

purposes, into it, and

made hand.

Dr

an

fessor of Physics, then perfected
the device and made various ex
periments and pictures in the

neighboring country.

MacClure Will

Continue Here

The Rev. Adbert M: Faecllira, Sec-
retary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A,,
has recently declined a call to the
assistant pastorship of the First
Presbyterian Church in Dallas,
Texas, and will continue his work
here. After spending about ten

days in visiting the church and con-
sidering the nature of the work Mr.
MacClure said that he “felt it
to decline the invitation.”
The
the
sembly and
Dr. Frank C.
recently

wise
Dallas church is the largest
Southern Presbyterian As-
the pastor
Brown who has just
succeeded » Dr. Wi
Mr. MacClure is report-
made a favorable

in
present is
iam
Anderson.
im-

ed to have

pression on the congregation in his

contact with them while visiting
there. His chief responsibility as
assistant pastor would have been

work with the young people of the
Mr. MacClure

church in which is
very experienced,

Beeause 75 members of last year’s
freshman class at Massachusetts In-
of Technology taken
forcibly to the institute's cabin at
Lake Massapoag and held there in
chains overnight, Dr. Karl T. Comp-
ton, president, and the student body
taken joint action to abolish
kidnapings of freshmen.

stitute were

have
wholesale

CHRISTMAS
DECORATIONS

SOUTHERN
5 & 10c Store

Christmas Supplies

CARS
FOR RENT

M. P. Henderson

GULF GAS & OIL

Page Five
SHEMIGAL FIRE DR. SPEER’S LECTURES
J .
PART REGAILS DELIVERED HERE YEAR
IFETAR TIMES AGO, NOW FORM BOOK
Otts Lectures Appear Under
Title of “The Meaning of
Students Would Form Bucket Christ to Me”
Brigade to Fight Fires ae
In Old Days The Otts Lectures for last
Beta Theta Pi year, delivered here in Decem-
NEW ENGINE EFFICIENT 3rother Crane and his two sons’ were guests at the feed| ber, 1935, by Dr. Robert E.
held last Sunday night Mr. Crane is on a furlough from Bel-|Speer, have now appeared in
Old Chambers Bi Building Burns| !an Congo and is spending the winter in Davidson. John Ir-| book form under the title “The
Down in 1921 win and Jim Terry week-ended in Charlotte. Dick Cathey and Meaning of Christ to Me.”
a John Winn had a time in Gastonia. A Christmas party is plan-| Four of the six chapters of this
If you had only been in ned for next Monday night. book were delivered at. David-
school here prior to the turn of Pi Kappa Alpha | Greensboro last week-end. George at the Otts Lectures for
the second decade of our cen-|  Chatlie Raynal, Ogburn Spoon,| Jones and Tyler Port visited their 1935, and the second and last
tury you could be able to boast Bob Anders, Willie Moore, Snozz| homes in Greensboro last week- chapters afe addresses : which
to,your children that you were | Hill, went to their homes for the| end. Tht rest of the Chapter went| Dr. Speer made at the Student
at one time a member of a real | Week-end. Im spite of his dislike | shopping in Charlotte for those} Conferences — at Northfield,
old. fashioned fire brigade, for for publicity Johnny Horton should | ( hristmas presents Mass. :
in those days when you be-| be listed with those who visited Phi Delta Theta AIT the MS UEEe HAYS been revised
came a student of Davidson the home folks. A feed was given| The Chapter had a meeting with ate urlalshedashs ke and are now in
you were a member ex-officio | Sumday night for the alumni of [the Charlotte Alumni Chapter last the college library :
of the community fire-fight- Charlotte, Gastonia, Concord, Sal-} [epjday night, December 11. The on ts bi aA Seed
ing crew, € isbury, and Statesville. Mr. and | agent in charge of the F. B. I. ac leir one DLO S 1s +0. crit and
The response to thé \ venerated Mrs. Henning of Albemarle visited | jy jj North and South Caro- er a Jest potas Ste s Made
ory of “ire! formeriy consisted oF the chapter Sunday afternoon. Beilin Mr. Lowder, made a talk on aan Bs sah ued SENAY
first grabbing your bucket and Norris has been engaged to play lee activities of the special agents’ ee gag Cane ai plate
tien looking to see wilether the| ‘or the formal! Christmas dance in) organization in-this section, Broth- fe SA EAL) seck to follow and serve
blaze was one of feminine beauty Charlotte on December 21. Ken | or Bill Neal gave a practical ex- ae
or physical heat. When Old Cham- Knorr and Dave McMillan went to) planation of various firearms used Interesting Books
bers and Old Watts burned it was Concord, Bud Ingram was initiat- | by the G men and demonstrated Other books just received! are’
the students in hastily donned trous- ed into the chapter last: Thursday | the Thompson sub-machine gun WUC) Adel es by Hottmeisten;
ers who flung: water on the flames night with Dr. Arbuckle officiating | Brother Smith, another Federal] Sparks from the Electrode, Life
with whatever was at thand and not Kappa Alpha Fagent was also here, About eleven Sving Hight) sand Man: and nae
dashing firemen in shiny black Worth Sprunt went to Winston-| alumni joined the Chapter in a feed] crobes, three volumes in the pelts
slickers and rubber boots Salem, “Reg” Harris made his! and smoker after the program,| tty o! Progre Senses 5 wth: By-
Use Chemical Cart weekly pilgrimage to the city of | Brother Ben G. Childs, the Pro sha pls hae: ae relia
rom tlie He Old Gllainbere Greensboro. Coot Gladden went to] vines presidentt, vi ited the Chapter ee a Bae Rleacty 4 at
burned, in 1921, until four years York, S. C. Willard Dixon and Gil) Thursday and Priday The Christ ie pa i et Pecunelege
ROTO Only fiveenlentinemnehine Palmer spe nt the week-end in the} mas party will be held tonight. The 3 ik at ‘ ‘nuove ie fee:
Beat Se fie Tor maine Queen City Lutz only went to!) Chi Omega Sorority from Queens rh ae Gre ae Bates Nie tiae
chemical cart) still) residing Hi its Ghraniotte:cchiss tic UG eat aeel ie BOI UU era Sr ee Scien : "1 eae eae uit G fi Med-
Si say Ne fidikacee cur pent.a quiet week-end on the cam rt 2 Allen is in Louis et y Te a : }
porium And even this wa a tu Be ts » tae i a BS Sone. . 1 i f
aunt powered contraption built Sigma Alpha Epilon I a rom Tat ne except tise me
Harrow enough torentem room doors |] Joick Jolinson <aid=Iilty Nichol Sigma Phi Epsilon ENA tine Achievement) and
in dorinitories and very tipsy in re ¢ thes Sweetbriar~ girls a 1 Doty = went to Ae a2 ue “ PAO a Ma) 1) ee ok
gard to its equilbrium. ‘That re at. Weman Glark visited his home Turner wath to Flora ne i) for (ie Department of Chem-
chemical cart has fought fires in | in yetteville, Ken Frytogle was] tts een oS abet ats ey : :
all parts of the community after} am iis of the Greensboro goers ves Ihe Christmas party 100d Medicine is subtitl er
students had played dray horse a Mis, Gatttiey iovoe cooi tor tie | Wile De fest Bada ei re Are Ula sa AMial Nye se
US D ber Ii Johuny Pridgen of High the current choice of the DeLuxe
it. In its hey-day it was quite an| Chapter last Sunday Might. Edy Det : | lu! whicho tie: brary:
elaborate piece of equipment | \rmifield went to Asheboro Phe} opring Hla., was pledged Thurs Nditions Club, of 5 uch, the it seal
B Mod Engi Christmas party will be given Fri day, December 10 a member ut a a SE Oe nes
uy orn Seine ; ; eee ; tion by Will Rogers The jacket
¢ day night. Prof. Wood gave a party ci
About four years back the town detecchanterdaecaiiireday nielits ‘ ean bears the following description: “A
and college decided that although Sebboee : : +48, : ; STUDENT BODY gorgeous book, distilled from the
: : ; Springs Pharr was initiated into the
this was admittedly es small town Chapter Thursday night : Beane (Continued on Page 6)
compared to Some it still felt it te (Continued from Page 1) seen aoe
would take more than thjrty min Kappa Sigma tween the throne and his lover. “I], — ——— ———$<<——
tites for it alleton burn dowil (that George Norfleet and Billy Hil think it was the best solution for .
was the life of the old cart tank).} Went to Winston-Salem for Bie all concerned, looking at it from Merry Christmas
Upon reaching this conclusion they week-end. Charlie’ Elder and Bis-/iy0 proudest viewpoint,” said Dr
got together and bought the pres- | ©? Howell were among those 0] sting be praised) Sir Stanley and A Happy
ent fire engine which is capable of | Green boro, The regular feed was Baldwin for his splendid way of
delivering: a stream of water to the held Sunday night. Daniel Me handling the great crisi New Year
the top of any building in the town: | © ichy attended this feed Sunday In closing Dr. Mims stated that
So, the next time you hear the night England was the type that stayed 9
ery F-I-R-E thank your lucky stars Pi Kappa Phi in the middle of the road, Although Norton S
it only means ‘come-look-what-l Founder Day was celebrated Fascism and Communism have made
see’ and not ‘come-on-hitch-your- | Thursda night with Reginald large pains elsewhere, in England
self-up-to-this-fire-wagon.’ Pricé, district Archon, presiding. they have not gone far because the Barber Shop
Col, Rhett and Dr. Vowles were at people are opposed to any sort of | ¢
this program. Mr. Price presented iolent. change iI sieraebat ck coed,

PLANS ARE DISCUSSED

Harmon Woodward with. the gold
Pi Kappa Phi scholarship key. A
feed was enjoyed after the program
AS ETA NU P| MEETS Margaret Howe and Margaret Bel
mont ited the Chapter Sunday.
The Freshmen are giving a ¢ hirist
Reports Ficm Ge Convene} yya3 parfy for the Chapter Friday

ht. Ke son Wi animous-
tion Received and Business | '\iv)!!. Ken | nwas un ,
Discussed ted th est boy in the Chap-
ter Dunny Covington went to
’ 2 hi r o Soutl
The regular meeting of Eta Nu} Oueen Ralph Chandler to South
Pi was held last Tuesday night, De Pine
cember 1. Phi Gamma Delta
At this meeting reports were r¢ Phe big Christmas party was last
ceived from the delegates to the | Sunday night Faculty ie wos
state convention which was held re-| present ine lude: Dr. and ee .
cently at Greensboro. Plans were} W. Lingle, Coach and Mrs. ae
also discussed forthe celebration ver, Dr. and Mrs, Watts, ne
during the Christmas holidays of] fessor, Frontis Johnston and ee
the festivities usually held by Eta] Lucy Currie, and Coach and \} a
Nu Pi, and an appropriation was] Shephard. Santa Claus and ue
made for Christmas decorations. O'Brian were also,right there. Dr.
Sugg ade a futile trip to
Due to the phenomenal’ success | H!. G. uss made a : f
Otethomonaptereneccnitiymesta lis) cl | james mene oS
at W. C. U. N. C,, it was decided
to send representatives to Raleigh
to look over the girls’ schools there
with the object in view of starting Merry
other sister chapters if the indica- is
tions are favorable. Christmas

After thé conclusion of business

an interesting program, consisting
of an impromptu debate and several
talks in the form of of
campus leaders, was presented. A
brief feed was then held,

mecting was adjourned.

DAVIS
Barber Shop

parodies

and the

|
ER Pe et NER NN NPE NEES

KG A Merry Christmas and a x
& Happy New Year to we
ew You All WU
®% White Drug Company %
se “Davidson’s Oldest and Best” wh

iA

e

AS SAS SASS AS SAGA

THE SUPER- STRETCH Ss KNIT IN.

{nter'wove
"Nu-Top

Teace magn

»..a regular length sock that
stays up without binding!

Patented and exclusively Interwoven. It is the only
satisfactory, self-supporting sock! For comfort...
...neatness...all round satisfaction — ask for Inter-
woven “Nu-top’... they‘re “the Tops” lin socks.

2 PAIRS $100

NEW PATTERNS...SOLID COLORS

J. Bb. IVEY & CO.

