THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1936

The Dabvidsonian

By the Class of: 1915

Founded

1935 Member 1936
Associated Collesiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Didsest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

w

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $2.00 the Collegiate year.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the°act of March 3rd, 879

°

ARTICLES FOR PUBLICATION

must be in the hands of Managing Editors by 4:0) o'clock
p. m., Monday. Letters+to the Editor are welcome, but all
communications intended for publication must be signed.

EDITORIAL STAFF

2
Jist’ Morton_--.. -Managing Editor
Howrsr Ov ERTON Managing Editor
Harotn St:co. Vanaging Editor
Daymono TURNEE. alanaging Editor
Joun Wixx_- -Munaging Editor.
Larry KuvKeNnpi .-Sports Editor
MartTIN BAKWETT ‘ssociate Editor
‘Harvey Gass ‘esaciate Editor
Pavut Flan an --csoelate Editor
Tom Maremma; isseciate Editoy
Jone WALKER eisseciate Editor

BUSINESS STAFF

Cuartes Mauze.
Britt Sworr

Circulation Manager
-Circulation Mangger

Born Wanner. Circulation Manager
Hoke Rontxsos ‘dvertising «Manager
Bien Hi. 0 elle Collection Manager
Bint Dyertel..--- “issistant Business AMlanager

os

"WEDNESDAY, MARCI 4, 1936

Luery word of God is pure: He is a shicld unto
theme that put their brust in Him, Prov: 30:5,

ial.
- 4

Sincerest Sympathy is extended to Sid
Marsh in the recent death of his father.

Paragraphics....

“ Students of the University of North Caro-
lina have very forcefully expressed aedesire
for Dr. Frank LP. Graham, whom the alumni
of that institution are making strenuous ef-

forts to oust from. the presidency. to remain as

head of the state university.
The students at Davidson would like very

much to*see “Doe” Unger remain here. but—
—_ sok * * *

To what extent is Professor Rathbun of the
Stanford University Law School truthful when
he says, “A lecture ws the process by which
the notes of the professor become the notes of
the student, without passing whrough the
minds of either?”

oo

Gentlemen....

Davidson has for a long time been proud of
her traditions, and particularly for that demo-
cratic spirit which has pervaded the campus
since long before any member of the ‘present
student body can remember. Onc of the most
outstanding manifestations of this friendly at-
mosphere is the way in which every Davidson
man greets every other of his. college mates
wheh they meet, no matter where.

The informal “gentleman” has bécome a
veritable pass word with Davidson men. It
generally takes new students only a very short
while $o form the habit of using this time
honored grecting as they would an article of
clothing. The present freshman class, how-
ever, has erred in its unsolicited mission of
acquiring this useful and friendly habit. Per-
haps they are steeped in profound thought
which keeps their minds above those of us
upperclassmen, but the registrar's records
would seem to indicate exactly the opposite.

Freshmen, you arc being accused of having
your heads in the clouds. The upperclassmen
are wondering why you can’t speak when they
meet you on the campus or elsewhere.

You aren’t all quality, but a large number of
you. do appear to have either a “holier than
thou” attitude or you are afraid to speak to
your fellow students. You should be afraid
not to speak, as much as you fear an upper-
classman seeing you when you are not wear-
ing your little red cap.

Start speaking and get to be a part of Dav-
idson in every sense of the word.

'

e

Elections....

"Student bods clections have once again be-
gun on the Davidson campus, and as usual,
bull-sessions are filled with the same old!chat-
ter about who is the best man, how do you
think the various ballotings will come out, and
the many other relative subjects that are nat-
urally diseussed at this time of year.

Davidson has been indeed fortunate in its
selection of student leaders in the past, but it
has been very uniortunate in allowing the
vearly elections to create unwarranted ani-
mosities, which almost inevitably accrue, Crit-
icism rings about the campus that certain fra-
ternities formed a clique and supported one
another's men for various offices. The age old
question of the non-fraternity men opposing
the greek-letter groups arises. and despite the
inevitable dyirg down of a good part of this
ill fecling. it seems absolutely absurd that so
much of it should come about.

It is petieetty natural for a man to feel a
little down-hearted when he is defeated in an
election. but iin a majority of cases you will
find that the losers are usually the ones who

‘Thave the leass-anrotint of derogatory comment

-aofter, You night contend that he has got
to be a sport and take it with a grin, but in
most cases there is much more sincerity be-
hind that grin than you wouid ever imagine.

So. when the eleetions are completed in
about another month, let's all be able to say
that we: voted, in every ease, for the man
whom we thought best jitted for the office.
and whether he won or not, we are confident’
the winner was elected by fair means.

{1 this attitude were taken by all of us here
at Davidson, where no organized polities is
necessary to learn the merits of a man, we
would be able to literally fect the spirit of
good will grow, and there would be no pos-
sible grounds tor {aise rumors, which unpre-
ventably breed jealousy and contempt.

Graham Plan.....

When and it Davidson College accepts the
invitation extended last month by the South-
ern Conference, and i& scems very probable
that vhe invitation will be accepted, her ath-
letic teams wiil be foreed to obey a set of rules
known as the Graham Plan. So much has been
written and said about this plan that no at-
tempt will be made here to propound any of
its details, Suffiee it to say that the general
purpose of the rules is to prevent commercial-
ization of athleties in the colleges. composing
the Southern Conference.

There are comparatively few people who are
willing to stand up and say that in their opin-
ion the widespread custom of subsidizing ath-
letes is altogethe: for the best. The question
as to whether an athlete should receive special
consideration oi any kind is debatable, but
there is no doubt as to the fact that present
practices arc. ruinous-to the honor of the col-
leges and to the spirit which athletics arc
supposed to engender.

Yet when the Southern Conference passes
measures designed to cure these evils a chorus
of protests arises all over the South. The ob-
jections are mostly based on the ground that
the Graham Plan goes entirely too far in its
restrictions. Football fans seem to think that
this is faust too much of a good thing. Several
schools trave frankly admitted that their teams
would be absolutely ruined if they obeyed such
rules. The question is raised as to why the
conference thought it wise to go so far in one
jump, instead of. working to bring about the
change more gradually.

There may be several redsons. First it
‘should be said that any such set of rules is al-
ways subjeet to a variety of interpretations.
When the Graham Plan is put into action it
will probably not prove to be as bad as
majority of che sports writers have pictured it.

Moreover, the evil which the Graham Plan
combats is not always open to the public view.
It is an insidious thing, working under cover
without the knowledge even of some persons
vitally concerned. For this reason former at-
tempts to climinate the worst abuses along
this line have failed. If anything is to be done
at all the whole system must be yanked out by
the roots and destroyed. Then if actual hard-
ship is being worked on deserving athletes,
as the objectors claim, modifications can be in-
troduced later on. It is only by the most strin-
gent measures and absolute co-operation that
true amateur athletics can be preserved in the
modern college. —J.C. W.

Because a mix-up prevented the signing of
top-notch bands an Olympic Fund dance plan-
ned for Dec. 6 at Ohio State was indefinitely
postponed. It seems that the dance committee
was under the impression that the Casa Loma

orchestra had been signed for the event, and

didn’t find out until almost too late that it
was unavailable.

DAVIDSON
OFF THE

'» RECORD
ye ..

Honor System . .”.

As aftermath to Carolina's cheat-
ing ring scandal comes the tale of
-}a freshman who came to Chapel Hil
without ever having heard of the
University’s famous honor system.
On his first writ, given a few days
aiter the close of the rushing sca-
son, he was somewhat bewildered
by the professor's request for
“pledge.” He pondered a few min-
utes, then at the bottom of his pa-
per wrote, in flowing band, “Phi
Delta, Theta.”

o

°

Utilitarian ...

hy SuGG

Odd Quirks and
Remnants of Wit

1 wish I were a kangaroo,
Despite his funny stancés;

I'd havé a place to put the junk
My girl brings to the dances.

The big financial battle of the - Hornet,
century is now going on between oe8
Pres. Russell Patterson and Pres, Petty Judgment ...
Cokey Branton. It seems that the George Petty is.to judge the
Juniors were contemplating — the beauty section of the University of

staging of a dance when Branton

. Georgia annual this year. He in-
stepped in with a Bowery Ball re-

: . 4 sists on full length photos, saying
vamp of the Mid-Winter plan. After that he cannot judge the beauty of
a hurried tete-a-tete the Juniorsarc- the owner by the face alone. We

taliated by offering as big a band] (.4 sorry for those girls, if their
as featured Mid-Winters, at less] sutchritude is to be compared with
cost. Then Cokey and Ifis barons that of Petty’s model—his daugh-
languished at the fatut glimmer of ter.
lost Iuere. Fate tipped the scales].
a little unfairly for the Pan-Flel-
lenic Council when the wrestling
tournament was set for March T3-
14. Bue we hear that the -Juniors
are planning to dope Leroy so as
to remove the great attraction.
Calumnist #8 betting on the Jun-
iors. Patterson and his boys are
offering Tommy Tueker. Cokey and
the plutocrats ate offering faith,
hope -but a0 chanty. Have you
made your date for Junior Speak-
ing:
Mild
Protestations

‘

Sin Diul.

¢* ¢ @
Tobacconist Note...

Continuing our policy of useless in-
formation for those who smoke, we
are happy to report the foNowing from
the Aentucky Derby: A Cigarette is
two and three quarters inches long.
Vhe average smoker consumes ap-
proximately fifteen cigarettes a
day. or over three feet of cylindri-
cal tobacco.
dent's

days of higher education he,

ten miles, were they placed end to
ye end. Over a period of forty years
—One of the unnecessary unreason- | a nicotine fiend smokes cnough fags
abilities we have observed is the or- to stretch from Lexington, Ky., t
deal of taking two reviews in one | Cincinnati. Over a period of four
day. And we have seen several] years the gitls in one sorority alone
wrecks last week that tackled three.| sinoke enough coffin nails to reach
It is physically exhausting, an un-| from Lexington to Washington, D.
iair test and poor learning psychol-|C. .

ogy. The argument, of course, is - ¢ ¢

that in life one has jam-ups and] Mistaken Identity .. .

that one must learn to arrange his A male student at the University
studies. But as reviews. tike sor-|of Minnesota found his name a
rows, come not singly but in bat-
tations, it is practically impossible] His name was Marion.
to antedate one’s review studying.
It seems reasonable to us—since re-
view schedules are not particularly
adhered to anyway—to allow a stu-
dent so confronted -to -place-ene—of |-
them three days before or after. ;
This would allow the assistant to Washington, D. C. — A number
grade the paper and not inconven- of weeks ago this column was de-
ience the professor. voted to the New: Deal government
employees unions, such as the NRA
and-the WPA lodges. It was point-
ed out that these two lodges, under
the guidance of militant young of-
ficers, not'long out of college, had
proved thorns in the side of Presi-
dent Babcock, head .of the Ameri-
can Federation of Government Em-
ployees, and often threatened his
supremacy.

The limit

Picturesque
Probosces

In line with the tendency to form
ornery fraternities, we propose the
Alpha Cliapter’ of Iota Smella Beta,
the Big Nose Club of the campus.
King D. Hill would be Lord High
Nostril, for he is the only man alive
who can smoke a cigarette under
the showers. Tom Breeden and
Anderson, Loch Vass and Bill Ben-
field would be brothers in first de-
gree and Tom Ross, Jims Hodgin

Word now comes that a small
group of employees of the Social Se-
curity Board, most of them ‘young
and _Reinhardt. and Hindu Hash|and rambunctious, are requesting
and liggs Brown would be pledges.| a charter of Babcock to form agnew
Joe Hunter would.be the Lord High | lodge in the AFGE. If they get one,
Potentate. We hear that the Jun-|and they ptobably. will, President
iors aré going to stand him at the} Babcock will have ta add them to
gate for a human turnstile, turn-| his list of worries. Because the new
ing his head as cach man enters. | lodge-to-be is composed of elements
Montaigne and Voltaire also had| {favorably disposed to a working
similar faciat disturbances, as well| allowance with the WPA and NRA
as the calumnist, known as Pathe | lodges, in the interest of more mili-
News: Sces all and all Nose. ‘|tancy in the AFGE and less Bab-

koe,
Nichevo coe

Gigolo of the week: Bill Hancock,
who has ants not in trousers but
around the elbows. From_ other
colunins: “Smackdab in the middle
of the weck, we hear Gilbert Pal-
mer, Jr. broadcast via CBS with
the Davidson College Symphony
Band, Not that we hear him very] pictyce by rights of Fryfogle. That
plainly ;-he beats the drum. Con-| afew song has been written for
gratulations: To Student Body for' Ruddy Branton, “Alone on a Moun-
vetoing amendment. Didn't think|tain Top for Two.” That. Dick Ca-
it possible For Student Body to be] they shouldn't go to so much trou-
against anything ... Also to Scab-| ble for nothing.

-bard and Blade for much-needed | —-Fryfogle and Iago Nichollson go
flag. Sympathies: to Skinny Ste- picknicking, mostly nicking. Lady
vens, suffering from DT's or such.|to Fred Dennis on bumming corner:
He dreams dogs, ete., are chasing] I'm loaded up but just couldn’t re-
him and his roommate says he_gets, .sist-temptation to ask where you are

x e+ ®

Recently the New York papers
were full of the story of censorship
ot the Federal Theatre Project of
the WPA by Jake Baker, director
of WPA white collar projects. “The

Positively uncontrollable. These] going. Unusualities: Jim Cdthran's
Yankees ... Also to Herb Mother} town date last week. The Young
Willis. Needs snake powder. Brothers » going to Presbyterian

Bill Broadway gets in batting
Practice for baseball season. Why
is he always humming, “The Merry
Widow Waltz?” Mississippi is so
backward we-hear that slavery is
just beginning down there... We

tention. Fryfogle gets more and
Moore crazy. R. Bob -Lindsaypuss
to Charlotte often gocth to taker
Walke +. Even the gals are call-
ing Yentz Brogpuss.

STOLEN FHUNDER

By DAYMOND TURNER

During a coltege stu-|_

pmokes enough cigarettes to stretch].

source of confusion to the faculty.4[ t'n whistle,

_ Around Washington

By ARNOLD SERWER

i

Hospital and not for medical at-.

was reached when he received a
rlutter from the dean of women in-
quiring about his room situation,
she of course, thinking him a wom-
an. He replied: “Dear Deanie: [
am rooming over in the men’s dorm,
and the boys are just darling!”
(2 ¢ © ‘

Justice ..~

A Student at a certain western
university, caught without a term
paper one day snatched otic from
his fraternity filés, typed it, and
handed it in. It came back with an
“A” on it and a note asking him to
see the professor.

“Do you think that paper was
worth an ‘A’?” queried the pro-
-Lessor.

The student, thinking to charm
the former with a display of mod-
esty, admitted he had. expected a
“Bee -

“Well, it’s worth an ‘A,’ see?” said
the professor. “When I wrote it
fifteen years ago, it got a ‘C’ I'm
glad to see that it has at last re-
ceived the recognition that it de-
served.” .

°
Heirloom ... .

A Wellesly girl who was slightly
bashful about exposing her long
woolen underwear before her eth-
ercal-looking roommate at a Dart-
mouth house-party, began a hasty
explanation. “You see,” she said, as
she pulled off her ski suit, “these are
my father’s. I don’t usually wear
them.” “Oh, that’s nothing,” said
her companion, pulling off her outer
garments and showing an cqually
long pair of grey woolens, “these are

“o ¢

ny _srandfather’s”
—lVellesly College News
¢ e*?¢ ¢

Selp-Support .. .

Several students at. Purdue Univer-
sity are earning their way through
college by acting as professional
pall-bearers, A local mortician pays
them at the rate of two dollars per
funeral.
o¢ ¢ ¢
Ad Nauseam...' !

I bought a wooden whistle, but
it wouldn’t whistle; I bought a stcel
whistle, and still it wouldn't whistle;
so I bought a tin whistle, and now.

"|

—Rotunda

Living Newspaper,” a dramatized
version of the daily news prepared
for presentation in New York by
the New York Federal Theatre Pro-
ject, was scrapped at Baker's order
on the grounds, it was said, that it
portrayed Haile Selassie, Mussolini,
and other foreign dignitaries. Elmer
Rice, New York director of the pro-
ject, resigned immediately follow-"
ing the ban. Commentators said the
State Department had requested the
cancellation of the production, Drew
Pearson and Bob Allen in “Wash-
ington Merry-Go-Round” said that
the real reason behind the censor-
ship was that the WPA here feared
subsequent productions, loaded with
dynamite on various social questions
of the day, that were scheduled to
open following “The Living News-
paper,” and therefore cracked down
in advance.

- *£ ®

Liberal students the country over
might put a gold star against. the
names of Maury Maverick of Texas,
Scott of California, and Marcan-
tonio of New York. These three
Congressmen did what they could
to block compulsory R. O. T. C.
under the army appropriation voted
last week and prevent “goosestep-
ping on the campus.”

Songs. Comforting Thought: that
the lowliest freshman is the digni-
fied alumnus of some prep school.
Poem: Fee, Fi, Fo, Phewey! I
smell the blood of a Yankee. No,
Haake, please don’t call my bluff.
Space must be filled!

SPHCOHOSSHOSHOHHSSOHSSOOOSSHSOOOOOSCED

THIS
COLLEGIATE
WORLD

Those who thought from the first
that Eddie Cantor's offer of several
tliéusand dollars for the best essay
by a college boy on how to keep
America out of war, was only a pub-
licity, stunt, are probably close to
the mark, ..

A writer in the New Theatre
Magazine interviewed Mr. Cantor
on his proposal and the’ following
conversation transpired:

“Who suggested the idea of the
Peace Contest?”

Eddie: “Newton D. Baker.”

“Do'you expect any helpful ideas
to come out of it? Do you think
it will help,to keep the United
States out of war?”

Eddie: “The United States get in-”
to war? Don't be silly.”

“How do you think America can
stay outsof war?”

Eddie:“By arming to the teeth.”

; Compare the ;
i NEW S|}
3 From Davidsonians :
H of Years Gone By 3

—1931—

Dr. E. L. Swan of New York, will
deliver a series of Icctures here _
on Social Hygiene. He has been
sought by the college authorities
for seyeral years to make these lec-
tures °“%: , Athletic night will be
held this week. The trophies and
letters for this year will be award-
ed... Mr. David Ovens of Char-
lotte, speaks at vespers, taking as _
his subject, “Seconders of the Mo-_
tion”... LR. C. holds its con-_
vention at Duke. Grier Martin was
chosen vice- -president of the assem-
bly . Y.M.C.A, Deputations go
to Charlotte churches over the
week-end... Davidson sends three
delegates to the Omicron Delta
Dappa convention in Lexington; Ky.

.. Sigma Pi Sigma and Gamma
Sigma Epsilon extend bids to ten
men... Dr. Charles F. Myers’ will
talk at spring services this year...
Track practice will begin Monday.

. Annual photographer takes
views of the campus for, Quips and
Cranks,

—1926—

Glee Club returns from a tour of
the-southland = —: Tex Tilson signs
as Wildcat coach for next year. He
will work with Younger, who signed
several weeks ago... Wrestling
team wins six straight matches ...
Queens College dramatic club pre-
sents a play here ... For the first
semester the average for the entire
senior class is 90.52. This is an un-
precedented record for senior class-
es at Davidson College .. . Spring
golf tournament will begin this
week ... Davidson students attend
.. R.-C. convention at Brenau Col-
lege .. . Railroad plans improve-
ment on Davidson Line... Fresh-
men make plans for high school
meet to be held here goon... Span-
ish Club cleots officers:

—1921—

Eighteen delegates represent Dav-
idson at the State Volunteer con-
ference at Durham . . . Charlotte
“Y” defeated by Davidson, 55x11.

. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle entertains
Gamma Sigma Epsilon at supper.

Junior speaking plans look
bright . . Davidson College Maga-
zine appears ... Eight letter men
among large number reporting for
baseball practice . . . Lark track
is now practicing regularly . a
R.O.T.G. spring inspection will be
held March 10.

—I916—

Six’ men awarded basketball let-
ters for service this year... Pros-
pects are looking very bright for
the baseball team this spring .. .
Queens College Glee Club gives a
concert here. It is well attended by
The 1916 Quips

and Cranks goes to press.

the students . . .

Printers..

Publishers...
Bookbinders...

Commercial and Social

Printing and Publishing _

____ Book and Catalog Publishing a Specialty

hear that there was a Glee Ctub
initiation last Thursday. That must
have been those unchanged voices
chirping outside my door. Eh, Phif-
er? ... When Bill kink was small
and got lost, did his mother start
a search for The Missing Link?
Ondit: that Cokey-is losing out at
Brenau. That Schnozz Hill has a

Henry Cathey follows up snaking
job. Goes faster and faster. Or
as the Yankees would say it, Fos- '[]
ter. Atwater, Bob, why did atall
get mad-with you? Honor Roll: :[
Bill Archer and Reg Harris in the !
figure at Greensboro. Sky Cline,
“The. King of the May.”

Things we are weary of:

REPRESENTATIVES: LAMONT BROWN——R. P. MORROW

STANDARD PRINTING
COMPANY ~—

117 Garland Court Charlotte, N. C.

Folk
