THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25,

1936

HAPPY SPRING

Vacation Over; Disillusioned
Scholars Will Return to
Routine

RECESS IS DISASTROUS

Over - Cuts and Wrecked
Grades Usually Result

“It's a long lane that doesn't
have a hot dog’ stand,” was the
motto followed by those who in
vented the spring vacation. It is
a long semester that doesn’t have
a vacation, but a short period of

indulgence
De

only

in the worldly pleasures
without
to

to found our campus,

serves increase our rest-

lessness and impatience.
The accentuation of our plight by

recess otf

a. briet four cl days

is comparable to the feeling a pris-
oner would have if released from
Aleatraz and then, almost before
he had realized he was free, was

seized again and reincarcerated. The

simile does not hold entirely, how-

ever, for the prisoner in question

would have that magnificent feeling
of liberty

which is demted those who

realize that they must return after
that short period

It is this magnification of our
present agony by a glimpse of home
pleasures that undoubtedly is the
cause for the large emigration of
freshmen about this time. This is
a good thing, however, as those

who cannot take it are weeded out,

and only the freshmen blessed with

unusual intestinal fortitude remain
Within our precincts.

Webster must never have attend-
ed an institution of higher learn-
ing to have labored under the false
tmpression that a vacation was a
period of rest and leisure, Or may-
be it was in his day that existed
the originators of this custom of

uspe nding activities for a couple

of days in the middle of the second

term,
A

led to believe that he is going home

freshman, perhaps, might be

tor a rest and period of glorified
loafing but he is soon disillusioned.
ar
he he due

back at school, much to the worry

finds, upon arriving home, that

has forgotten when is

ot liis parents. Upon finding out

back in two or three
decides
rest and amusement

that he is duc
as much

into that

days, he to cram
time
as ‘possible.

\t the end of the time, our young
has had neither
rest nor leisure nor amusement, nor

friend finds that he

fias he enjoyed his parents’ company

e eeccscece eeeccse e e
HOLID AYS 3 H LAIRD T0 HEAD Mid-Semester Grades |Eumenean Features
& yw / e
Among the : ome en S To Be Released Soon! Debate and Address
EXPECTED BY STUDENTS B lores
G Hy e The’ mid-semester grad ob ;
E E s ; gula | ig
R K 3 azl tu ents Jun ; B: .
ry rt > ‘ i eat f Sorc et
TWO DEBATORS pea $ Will-Pilot Junior Baseball Club | -tudents during: 1! r Mf ;
i i } Ros é Mari t th
SOE aS This Summer in Charlotte {tion which bee { | ; rere mene hiecetet
, oT ) ie can eres | agit ran de is held on th .
LEAVE ON TRIP BETA THETA ; I An te recent) Undergraduates Protest Move-| (0). ejui. | Ken Rar " : SOLVED: Tha Visa a4
chapter elections the tollowing were H Hadad, : \ n l era t! ) ‘
Sa An eh a ag Nag ment to Exchange With A SAWODAIL ATi Bakeatinil ieee. |e Bah Jab
: : : rate : Heidelberg SS errors had sere carter |e at “ . ‘ss
THROUGH NORTH year: President, John Winn; Vice cD ei ee is unanimously elect iturday tl be the ¢ et thin Wear ¢ Phe y
President, Wilbur Edwards; Treas-| VAN LOON FAVORS PLAN i Be ul A ee AL as Ve j af
; ‘ urer, Dick Cathey, and Secretary, Ss lornets Nest Post Numbe while Frank S Loc
oerhioe Da =e eae Moir Hall. Bob Johnson was elect-| Farrand Also in Favor of “Ex-|‘\merican Legion, to coach White defended the negat
‘ Thaniaki i pre | renee
Three Outstanding College [oj | jcticnic representative change of Courtesies” Charlotte entry in the i rotineate + rd
Teams Brothers. Command bobbe: went ee ae . Punic Legion Baseball rac ents tl alae eK directed re
Jimmy Salango and Bob Stewart |to Hickory over the week-end ‘il : ae ¥ oe AC P) A ? . Lak = , Many ot prof were late embers of the 5 H i
left Monday for the northern de- ine abi : pales : ( hed Phe election took place ata meet turning in the marks because
bating tour P1 KAPPA ALPHA Brother| Ndersraduate protest and adverse jing of the athletic committee at ickne8s, but ~ Mr. Hengeveld
dating to d A AL 1 : ; ah ate 7 : ; 3 engevel
hey will mect Swathmore Col-]Spoon went to Raleigh, Brothefs criticism ae Phe ie, ai Charlotte Fire Department. Coach ite 1 ; MHL busrendece i
; Si stude lewspapet reside Lire s prese ( © he had
lege, Swarthmore, Pa.; University | Archer and Dixon to Salisbury, and [* un, stu eee pape : lent} Laird was oon nt and after he had thie ; ble. Grade
of Marvland, College Park, Md.;] Brother Hodgin to Greensboro Seat ell wi Pi aluee ete cue cecuonE ae Ine rilal idents in vill
and University of Richmond, Rich-] "Sky" Cline made-an extensive tour nounced that Corne ) be es ssed himself as being delight-[the re t ( either toda
nae eG ries debate orieinall (Elis cpast weel-end, The chapter ¢: S pre ithite to t rT ae to take the job r ton 7
. . ‘le on ot thre niver oft a s ectio jar 1 irs
ecired ied laairectinitteter College planning on throwing a big. party ie ‘ ie rraatic rott ie ; ) rd ; electi n Lite the first ‘ he
Baan aryterntenr ete ROBT Nita taatt eminnine ot eidalberg this summer t ar-]time in the history of the organiza é 3
at New Wilmington, Pa. was can ‘ ght, 4 ; t the beginning of ' ind said -he did not regard-an “ex-|'tion that a professional coach : Educational Meeting
celled due to prevailing flood con e spring holidays ’ saree ; fol natoas ep: 3 \
Aaa Hares Hye tOUE AE Will De * * &* change of courtesies” between the} been employed to tutor the—Char- Attended By Leaders t 1 the end Woe
httons our . eriohé VAT OINF at {atts : RTCA Yes f n n It ( t scl
necessary for the team to debate KAPPA ALPHA—Brother Tom ee institutions as tvolving an-ex- |lotte -team \ committee selected : pokes
hoth the affirmative and the nega-| Downie returitéd from a week's stay | PTSSI" of judgment on Ge iu infior the purpose of securing a coach Professor Ileagle of the inisl
tive side of the Supreme Court | 12 Hlorida Brothers Bob Abell policies in’ government or eduea-|recommended Laird to the Legidn-| department and Profe ree) Poa tat tended the Friday
question and Banks Gladen spent the week oe 1 } 1 test naires and their approbation fol-] Bailey of the Greek department, at- | there Cres ip
Che debating teams of University}end in Chester, S.C. Charlic Distinguished alumnus Hendrik | longed immediately tended the meeting of the Nort] Phe assemblies were very well at
of Marvland and Westminster (¢ |-] Mause went to Spartanburg, S; C Willem Van Loon expressed a dit Laird has achieved remarkable] Carolina Educational Association at} tended, Met rship is limited to
Maryi f timit o g, a ‘ pie pee wel my
lege will visit the Davidson campus] Otficers for the coming year are Lorca Nava Nau UCL LG Ges et) ent} success with his Davidson teams, Inf the Hugh Morson High School white persons engaged in kinder-
April : lf arranements ¢ Paris 1. Tohn Atidersot Peele ray. Phe Sun, Participation by Cornell |his first year as Wildcat mentor] Raleigh on Mareh 19, 20, and 21 whet hich h Wl ‘fees
Apri arr S Ci 1 l he at : ee ‘ :
made a debate with the University | Mauze; 3, “Sandy” Moffett. J. ( in the celebration would be in} Red” piloted Davidson to the Big Iwo thousand teachers from the] work. Mat ducator
i i i 1 N ows ay suf able ‘ t Ie » championshin elitae ; Pa 1 1
of Maryland will be broadcasted | Crowell will be the ‘Pan-Hellenic in u feral ; ins t ver Five hampionship brushing aside [high schools and. colleges over tl were prese
over station WBT at the Davidson | representative for the coming yeat ys founder, - he Geciarec Be SULTS COM NGttiO ns. alton cl Gc: bys | eee aa Sia
Galera nour Durine hemienioon A feed was enjoyed by the brothers Van Loon'’s letter asserted thatstrong opposition
a debate with Westminster Col-]last Sunday night. “the Germans, being free, white and Coach Laird sueceeds George
: : twenty-one, are of course entitled | Sherrill and will be assisted by Joe
lege is scheduled ant feo. Wee ieee ded ; : ;
This northern trip will culminate PE RARBA: DEI Brothur tortie soe coon Os BONG IIE tude : ‘cl ‘1 fat | ok MG Davidson Cheatre
, ‘ happens to please their « Lowa rarlotte pe of taking
avseries of three trips that have | Willi pent the week-end in An that happens to plea their Teu a * ; : ; {taking
nt nev, and itt one of a ik t wy lesrior ave t
been made by the Davidson debat-]derson, SoC., with his mother. Jim tonic taney, and 1 : wreatly t! ; ‘ : De
ne lhe rei streng Sines t x
ors this year, These trips have cov-| Hill, sophomore, was pledged re-]Dusiness to what lengths they: may eres 2 ‘i aoe nee Laird WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18TH
¥ ry f ling the decent opinion | Mts Deen signyé
cred southern, western, and north-|eently. Joe Kellum spent the week- | 80 i offen’ SONG AND DAN M
; , A petal : oO n st ¢ mankind
ern states. According to the stories end in Rock Hill, S.C. Tonight the P the rest of mankin ; 5; - a CE AN
told by those who have already | brothers are having their regular “But it seems incredible” be con marae fa had missed nothing hut With Paul Kelley, Claire Trevor and Michael Whalen
made the first two trips Davidson] spring party A daree number of ftinued, “that Hitler bright boys |* eae he Mt ' 7
f mvs ron oO rit PUMnnty ti .
debaters have basked under the ce-| girls from the Queen City are ex- | Wweuld care to associate WE Rela \\ ‘ witha 1 : hee PHURSDAY & FRIDAY MARCH 19-20
lestial rays of Florida sunshine and] pected to aid in the celebration of |Sentitives or a university aKophfytateall Paacnd a MAGARICLDA 2 u es
shivered in the snows of mountain- [the beginning of the annual spring by that eminently  broadminded > FOLLOW THE FLEET
i ‘irg WW Yuak zy ornell” > : ne ; AYE: ~
ous West Virginia so that the Wild- | holidays Quaker, | 1 ( ell Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Harriet Hilliard, Randolph Scott
cat argumentative forces would car eae eas Meanwhile, Harvard authoritic 20 Years Experience
rv on to victory. The team this ‘ were trying to think their wa P - ; :
: ; SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Ken 1 ; SATURDAY, MARCH -2tst
year is composed of Wade Boggs, eutopl erie eiatel ei through a prett\: quandary Consist With
7 ~ > “PV LOSIC ate Oh AObDmsoOn well 1
Wilber Edwards, Tyler Port, Se- to Greet itt Ge apne hint ency called for refusal of the bid David M TOO MANY PRESENTS
Aine Gtaware PUA LSS trate al HUT BU atuate © scholarship offered by Ern avidson Men j é a
Jango, Stewart, and Harold Sugg. field and Mick Johnson to Greens is holarshiy ee | Ernst With an episode of “The Phantom Empire”
Several debates are scheduled to oe ARR hes Pea ETAT Yi Hantstacg), Hitler aide, were twic
OTTO AlLembe soo 4 «Al Vo alte }
be 1 are: eat 4 var refused. Tlowever, Harvard has in ,
1 AME GAH) ANE ¢ pee oe the near their wives: were entertained at the i } N O R T O N S \ « . . Ot
future. Members of the regular de- HET Said ; q | vited Heidelberg to send represent MONDAY & TUESDAY, MARCH 23-24
v, feed held last Sunday night ;
bating team will represent David : ; : atives to its 000th anniversary cele BARBER SHOP LOVE ON A BET
* ‘ 6
son College. These debates will be bration, doesn’t dare to risk are ; ; ;
; yp loloontio; 2 Starring Wendy Barrie and Gene Raymond
held in the Eumenean Literary So ASA ache taba : = Nl Hatory: sii) Norton and Cidroam, Props. M uM Y
Riehebtaile DriGole Drowiuientie coluscuim ob « irl Carlson, Banecrott Opinit it Princet passed up
coach for this year’s team (Continued on Page 6) by the N cemed to be that the l®

to any extent because of the pe-
culiar hours he was- forced (or
tl he was forced) to keep in
order to have a good time.

He return to school, utterly
worn out, only to find that each
professor made an extra long as-
signment which was‘to have been
done over the vacation. Having
none of his assignments prepared,
he cuts his classes and wishes he

yed home another day. By

he is back in the swing

nly to find that he has

ereut four subjects, and will have
to take, reviews in them. While
preparing for these reviews: he be-
omes more and more entangled in
h wwn mesh of unprepared assign-

last
thinks

k ‘caught up again, only

through the quar-

fellow he has

t ind being conditioned
in tive and failing the
stl me, the appropriate

thing to do is to imprecate, execrate

1 anathematize to the limit of his
vocabulary those misguided

ho made

spring vaca-
it is, and then go down
rifle range’ and = end his

Stop Light Affords
Distinction To Town

Davidson's stop light makes it
appear much like a city. Hun-
the only other small
1 unding country
( att ic regulator.
trouble with the light
is seldom any traffic
\ er
rtal thi
ed 1. all tou
once and then all green.

Cars
For Rent

GULF GAS AND OIL

M. P. Henderson

~

Tac

> hi i

Luckies are less acid

h Puff
Less Acid

Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Company

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over Lucky Strike Cigarettes
° “ ° ” °o
Se pee Rema wie renee teeters
BALANCE : et

: [ tucKy : : :

: : R49

: [BRAND | 4 : :

i [BRAND c y “an

[ BRAND D WH YY

i

-against cough

where the finest Turkish tobacco is grown.

OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
—"“IT’S TOASTED”

SCIENTIFIC BLENDING

The blending of tobaccos to secure a given taste—uniformly, season
after season and year after year—is both an art and a science.
Every fresh blending of Lucky Strike tobacco contains more than
100 different types produced on thousands of different farms—not
only in Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee,
Kentucky, Maryland and other States, but tobacco-lands in Mace-

donia and Xanthia in Greece, Smyrna and Samsoun in Turkey—

LUCKIES ARE LESS ACID!

Recent chemical tests show*

that other

popular brands have an excess of acidity
over Lucky Strike of from 53% to 100%.

*RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL
LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS.

“IT’S TOASTED”-Your throat protection-against irritation

