Page Two

The PDabidsoniar

Founded By the Class of 1915

Member

1936 1937
Associated Collesiate Press
Distributors of

Collesiale Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
; Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES,
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIDING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
Colleger Publishers Representative
420 Maison Avec. New Yor«,. N.Y.
CHICcKGo Boston SAN FRANC 5CcO
Los Anceces PeRTLANO Seattle

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March drd. 1879.

DICK VOWLES .. ... veee --4 Editor-in-Chief

R. H. ROBINSON....... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

-Managing Fditor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor

Ovid Rell
oc Calvin
Wesley Coghill

Terrell Porter Managing Editor
Perry Sloan -. Managing Editor
Bal” Marquess -Sports Editor
Owen Cooke _. Associate Editor
Sam Cothran — Associate Editor
Fuctid Fant oo... Associate Editor
Hlector McGuachy Associate Editor

: Editor
Editor

Yates Farson
Sam) Ryburn
Henry Baker -

BUSINESS STAFF

Wilson Lowrance  ~..2.22 20.02 e eens ence ne eee! Circulation Manager
Ralph Chandler -. -Circulation Manager
Charles Moore --Collection Manager
Jo M. Hall -Advertising Manager
J. J. Mat st. Business Manager

Life is a train of inoods like a string of beads, and,
as we pass through them, they prove to be many-
colored lenses which paint the world their own hue,
and cach shows only what lies in its focus.—LEmerson.

CAMPUS BIG BEN ... aAwy campus i-
provement deserves the whole hearted appre-
ciation of the student body, and the new cloek
on the north end of Chambers certainly falis
in that category. The big watchful face of
the time piece by all means lends something
to the bare brick of the nuar end of Chambers.

Our thanks to the class of “so for their giit,
not iust another gift, but a decided improve
ment to the cainpus. Thanks also to the
College ton installing the huge timepiece.
Murmurs a weary treshman “lt it only had

an alarm!”

* * oo

*

DAY STUDENTS... It seems that one of
the saddest deficiencies in college lite at Dav-
idson is the failure on the part of ‘day stu-
dents _fo. take an active pari in student ai-
fairs

Perhaps it is because they lack organiza-
lion. At altnost every other college in the
country, one may iind a well-established or-
ganization af day students. possibly with at
least one representative in the student gov-
ernment.

Sinee students at Davidson shouid be proud
ot the famous “Wildeat Spirits which is dis-
plaved in every day tife as well as in athletics.
it Seems that something shouid be done *to .
torm a closer bond between the day students |
and the rest of the student body - O: IL. 33.

x + + a

LIFE OF SERVICE... With the conclusion
of this academic year. one member of the
jacully ‘completes bis twenty fiith and tinal
year of a most suecessiul teaching career. Al-
though his work as an instructor is iinished,
his lite of service will still live on. That man
is Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle, head of the
Chemistry Department.

pus commands more respect or love than Dr.
Arbuckle, As a teacher, he has been patient,
understanding. and helptul to his many stu-
dents. The faet that he was named one or
the two most popular professors on the cam-
pus, expressed adequately his ability as a
teacher.

» As a scholar and leader, Dr. Arbuckle ex-
cels. A Phi Bete and ODK key bear mute but
evident testimony of this fact. .“Ilis name
stands out prominently among those few
names of Davidson men listed in Who's. Who
In America. Nor has his scholarship been of
a mere. theoretic type. Far from that, it has
extended, driven by a boundless energy, into
the most practical realms of scienee, always to-
ward advancement and aiding of others.

A warn smile, a hearty laugh, and a good
story for every occasion typify his boyish per-
sonality. Dr. Arbuckle, affectionately known
as “Coffee,” has never been known to teach
an uninteresting class in his life. Many are
the students who have been inspired by his
work and experience as a chemist to enter the
field as their own life work. And when a
man makes others live as he himself does, that
man has an indefinable, an intangible thing
called personality, and one of the greatest
sort.
~~ Though Dr. Arbuckle may cease his en-
deavors as an instructor of chemistry, his in-
terests and service in religious work will go

on, As the father of the present Davidson
College “Y." Dr. Arbuckle has worked with
the Hoard of Control for twenty-live years,
and even now, he will continue to act with
that group:

liowever, Dr. Arbuckie’s busy endeavor in
a busy world has never eclipsed a truly fine
Christian lite. tu every angle and slant ot his
life. his religion has never been slighted. And
modestly, Dr. Arbuckle attributes anything he
might be to his wite. And rightfully enough
in many ways, for it has often been said that
a manis charaeter can be told by the type of
wite he pielss.

{n the words of the Class of ‘36 Quips and
Cranks. in the dedication to Dr. Arbuckle:
“Doth by the instruction he gave in the class
room and by the example he set as a Christian

. geacieman, he has constantly beet a help and
inspiration to us. The aeademie instruetion
we may soon forget bar the memory of his
tine lite, his sympatheue and willing helpiul-
ness, and his deep understanding of our prob-
lems, wili remain with us tor many vears,

| Campus Comments

i plan to write a few words on a contro-
vecsial subiect.‘not because it is controversial,
but because it is important. Ror in aicertain
way this year, as never before. the Davidson
uanees have been put on a big Sime basis, with
outstanding orchestras and with foreetul pub-

licity among the students and inathe news-
papers. Perhaps this is the critieal time when
we should re think the whole problem of Dav-
idson dances and ascertain just what is their
Status.

Is

.

There are many phases of. the problem
-which Il-would not care to diseuss: but there
is one thing in partieular that 1 would like to
meation. and tac near the close of the article.
Put. first. as to our attitude.

To Those of You Who Dance: You have

recreation which you have followed. some
arising trom the darice itseli, others from the
attendant circumstances. With the former

ail cause for the latter, if you are realty in-

as possible. and L take it that vou are.

To Those of You Who Do Not Dance: You
convictions: there are features about it to

considersit wrong to dance. Your desire and

poliey,

tudes toward dancing. and despite all your | darmes fenient for

deep rooted desires for dancing to be abol-
ished it is quite evident that yonr manifest
contribution has been small,

=}
ee. ee ee

terested in pittting dancing on as high a plane | jeath the sk;

hich you conscientiously obicet1 hence. you| ov cant take ir with you.

position is that dances shotld be abolished.| «;
and short of unis you have held a hands off| been suggested jor the more

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS CAMERA

.*:
y OR. JAMES A.
Ve NAISMITH_U, OF
fi} KANSAS PROFESSOR
- “ WHO INVENTED. THE
GAMAEOF BASKETBALL
PLAYED IT ONLY TWICE !

eh

@ace
“4

SWEEPING
THE
~ CAMPUS

i
ss

By AL CADE

“O lost. and by the wind grieved,
ghost. come: back again.” And the

iound dancing in accordance with your ¢on-| spirit of an clegant Bowery still lin-
victions: But yor must realize that there are] cers’ vividly inthe memory of all
inany bitter criticisms against this iorm of | Youc

terpsichorean fiends — wha
milled to tmtloty vround
out by what was supposed to have
heen Frank Dailey’s orchestra, but
the Rig Brass Monkey and Mrs.

around

you will hardly concern yourseli, ior they are| Grundy swear it wa3\Mexander's,
Hiased on an entirely ditterent outlook from] kag Time Band from tWeIsle of
yours. Hu: you casi and should tury to remove | ost Souls.

But Dailey or not
stuff was mellow and ready and.
the ditle whue moths tluttered be-
nm a> the feet pushed
the body around. That po‘enant,
melancholy fecling after smch a
week-end is gone, never to retuen

have found dancing to be contrary to vour| except as a criterion for future

towerys. It was a Good Thing. But
Selah.
Triviana ... .
Nomination for Alpha Sigma
wina (take the initial letters) has
ag-

Despite all your antagonistic atti-| gressive snakes. CThariotte’s gen-

onee. Mark
Cauble successfully competing with
the Washington and Lee swing this
week-end. Who thinks Prank

May | suggest tlarrison is the fdeal Man? Coth-

that vow would not be compromising. and that [ ran. the hecl, should read the tale

your contribution would be far greater, ij,| of the pot and the kettle.

Billy

while holding. and holding tightly. to your | Crooks suhbing for one of the

convictions and your ultimate goal. vor would
do all in your power by insisting through yar-

motley boys in the band. Baby (3
ina bed) Fern the sleepy: type.
Casanova Corbin's date tanked him

ious channels that the standards of Davidson | and went home. Snozz Hill's pro-
dances, so long as there are any, be kept high. | bo compared to a Chrysler Airflow.

Cothran, the ham, pledged to Chi

Lest 1 seem too theoretical, let me mention Omega. True Blue Covington and
a minor but praetieal change we all, dancers | Bill Higgins rolling the lawn with
No faeulty member on the Davidson cain- |‘and non danecrs. might help to bring about. .

{am quite conscious that I shall be criticised.
fy some | shall be termed "behind the times :”
others will find me guilty of a compromise, as
they perhaps will in regard to the whole ar-
tele: others wiil remind me,

Qn A CLASS RUSH AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND, 20,000 EGGS AND A

FON OF FLOUR, SOOT AND FISH HEADS WERE
HURLED GIRIS ALSO JOINED THE BATTLE /

—

OLDEST ?

THE NEW HOME OF ALPHA
KAPPA Pi FRATERNITY AT
ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE, ANNAPOLIS,
1S 216 YEARS OLD

the Duchess. Biscoe Howell and
Billy Hilt doing a spring dance at
sunrise.

_ The funniest thing we saw was
the Freshman who strode into the
Armory, took off his trousers and
checked them with his coat and
walked into the dance. El. (don’t
call me Dopey) Lutz sending candy
to Salty’s Maid of Salem as a sort
ai John Alden. And Dick Towill
as a towel. And it wasn't a Mickey
Finn but too much wigae that made
Dick- Vowles pass ont. Sam Ry-
burn's babe commuting between
Charlotte and Wirston- Salem
classes. Your arehitectural studs
will appreciate the Linit_ Beauty.

for

WEDNESDAY, MAY 122, 1937.

reel dope

DAVIDSON THEATER

Thursday, May 13
Wake Up and Live—

A red shot musical comedy with
Walter Winchell. Ben Bernie. Alice
' Faye, Patsy Kelly, Ned Sparks, Jack
Ilaley, and others. Nine new. song

hits will be introduced ‘in, this
glamorous and howlarious 20th
Century production.

oo ¢

Fri-Sai May [4-15
Girl From Scotland Yard—

A gripping mystery story with
Waren Morley, Robert Baldwin and
Wathcsing -Alexander. The exciting
plot is centered around a myster-
ious death ray.

¢-¢°¢
Monday, May 17
Her Husband Lies—

Gail Patrick and Ricardo Cortez
have the principal roles in this
story, of a big-time gambler who
(ries in various ways to cure his
young brother of gambling.

oo @
Tues.-Wed. May 18-19
Top of the Town—

Another one of he year’s big-
gest musical hits that should not
be missed. Hugh Herbert, Doris
Nolan,- and Gearge Murphy take
the leading parts in this picture’ of
beautiful dance numbers and out-
standing scenery. -

lard and Johnny Allen goosing the
elevator, Baoby's wire to Woo
Woo was as valuable as a pass to
Billy Minsky’s since art is not Art.
Jack Branch, Salty. Tricky Dave.
and Jelly to Concord for Sweet
Rriar sendoff. And Salty still, has
vacation hair. Fatty Armfield the
popcorn vendor. Rev. Cooper's
congregation —. pulled —a— sitdown
strike. Who was the pug in the
Tavern wanting to take on all of
Davidson two at the time?
Addenda
Is Fishface Malone a man or a
mouth? Carl Carlson was the Monk
from Siberia whipping around in
that_smooth blue “job” Herm the

Fath ad. Henry Lyoa, Phil Fri-
berg, Jerry Tlarris. and Speedy
Turner breakfasting on the Cataw-
ba. Ken Darby, Tom Finlay, Dick
Winters, and Indian Joe Lauck got
as far as Charlotte on their trip to
the Derby.

Chivy Chivy ...

iverything except Sstorme and
the svcen veils at the Bowery. Mac
Covington. and = Mokey Faison
hideosities. Darkeyes had a cold
and now all the Phi Gams = ar¢é
sniffling. Salty’s unique studs. Are-
n't women wonderiul? ~ Unhappy
Lilith was dhe dady, moc de tiger.
this week-end by special inquest.
Johnny Andrews planting Kehr
bulbs. Rill’ Macllwinen’s costume
inspimae a gum gum from Ronteo
and Juliet. S. C. Howard to Greens-
bore dast week for the Hofmann
concert. Polk Moffett and rib pick-
ing rosebads- Gove in the Spring,
tra, la. Tiger lim’s name changed
from Chicken to Chicken Snake.
Dick Johnson buttered his bread
but didn’t have to ie in in. Bubby
Lranton should draw a finer line
between Bawery Ball and AMflitary
Rall Colanel Larpfert polishing up
on his ski footwork. Sunag¥ Moore,
Vimore Uolt, and Nesbitt Elmore
doing an adagio at

intermission. [but

Germ Clark's date will probably ar-
rive this week-end or next. The
Ganiers, T and lfshad a very charm-
ing sister up. Robinson didn't use
his head. And the gent beating up
hig ums in the Tavern. escorted
ous by the gumshoe. Where was
Cheekchusking Gailey ?_The. Goops
went hogwild. Jeep Chandler look-
ing for 2 Duteh mill Angelpuss Fai-
son looking kind of wistful. Pinky
Puss haunted dy reptiles.

Who was the female stupe who
thought vice> versa was a_ risque
song? She wasn't a pretty girl, and
she wasn't a clever girl buc she'd
do anything in the world for you.
Some of the ginuttons took in the
midntght revuesieal Sunday but
Preven leg-shows pale after the Bow-
ery. The Goof was the one in there
although Ovid inade a noble effort.
And Tad Turner snaking on Ken
Knorr. Mugg-Nutty Breeden. still
snaking on Jelly McClelland Mon-
day night. Hm Wilson was very
glad duennas went out with the
bustle. even in Cuba. And who was
the gent in the black shirt with the
jumping’ jitters or is that a new
step?

Don't forget to do your part for
the pageant, which is a Good Thing
camnot be successful without

Dennis Myers in street fight with | your support.

kiss and makeup. Charlie Raimseur

Take it away. Eight Ball. We're

getting schedwe mixed. Mark Lil-| right behind you. Hasta Manana.

To The Editor From A

n Ex-Editor

“Staff Elections” .~ 2 An edi-

“Yon don’t, go] torial in the fifth issue of The Dav-

to.the dances; therciore your suggestion is in-|idsonian entitled “Staff Jlections”

valid.”

Buc | consider that a change in the] attracted my particular attention,

hours of the danees would be a worthwhile |" simply because -1 find myself

and beneficial one, having in mind particu-
larly the Friday night dance. While there arc

unable to enthusiastically agrec
with the attitude of its eminent au-
thor, despite an intimate apprecia-

arguments on both sides, the necessary brev-| tion of his views, but also because
ity of this article prevents a full discussion of | of austriking contrast it bears to|
dae merits in the case. However, it is claimed | other items on the same page.

that Davidson dances are different. Would

This contrast gocs without am-

this not be a distinet and worthwhile differ- | Plilication. so T shall confine myself

enee? Common sense tells us of the foolish-

here to an attempted vindication of
a disagreeable stand on the five rea-

ness of the practice, but still the 2:00 A_M.] sons listed as the most outstand-

hour is retained.

Furthermore, if the Satuy-|ing ones for changing the method

day night dance can end at 12:00, why not the| of electing editors to the various
Friday night dance, especially now since the | SMPs publications.

}.added Saturday afternoon tea dance would
give opportunity to catch up on any dancing
lost the night: before?

My position in this article is not whether
to dance or not to dance, but, if there is going

The first two of these I shail like
to answer jointly. The writer states
(1) “the editorship of a publica-
tion is by nature a technical posi-

tion. (2) “The staff of a publica-|-, point~wholly in

tion is more competent to know the
qualifications necessary for an edi-

to be dancing, let us all co-operate to make it| tor and to judge which. member of

as wholesome as possible. .
‘WATSON STREET.

the staff has these necessary quali-
fications.”

Those statements sound quite

P. S—I request Jim Dorsett, editor of the| logical on the face, but behind the
1938 Annual, to write Campus Comments for| scene one sees a very different

next week,

picture. The editor of any publica-
.tion on the campus requires little

time to sense the fecling that his
job is not one of simply getting to-
gether his matcrial and fulfilling a
technical routine, but that he is in
an intangible relation with his fel-
low students, the faculty and alum-
ni of the college. He ‘must ‘be
leader, with ideas for progress and
improvement.

’
__So if he is to serve the student
body representing THEM in his ca-
pacity a8 editor, the student group
knows best who can meet, these
intangible problems.

In the third place we read, "Staff
elections” shift the emphasis from
popularity or political backing as
the primary qualifications for edi-
torship. to journalistic ability and
service to the publication,

Readily 1 concede the point that
popularity is a large factor in elect-
ing editors,at Davidson, but, it is
SUDROTe ot ay are
gument. A popular man on_ the
Davidson campus is in most cases
one-who has —leadership- qualities
and furthermore they are qualities
siceped in sincerity and a desire
to serve. A desire to serve not an
jnbnimaté thing like a publicatiorl,
as ahe cditorialist: points out but a
desire to serve the men, for whom
he has beén chosen to serve through

this publication, or through the Y.
M. C. A. or through the student
council, in the administration of
student government as would be
the case with the student. body
president. Why not have the pres-
ident of the student body clected
hy the student council from a junior
representative on that group, or the
Y..M. C. A. president from a mem-
ber. of the “Y” cabinet?

A fourth reason is advanced by
the “IEx-Stafler.” “For the reasons
above,” | he says, “underclassmen
members of the ‘staff would tend
to work hard, realizing that they
will be graded on the work and
ability rather than the opinion of a
group unfamiliar with and. in a
large! measure uninterested in their
efforts.”

Ask yourself this question, and
then think for a few moments to
determine what your attitude to-
ward it would be as a stydent on

by nature more interested in work]
ing untiringly toward attaining a
position on the campus that is un-
questionably backed by the support
of the honored and respected opin-
ion of a majority. of his fellow
students, or is he more interested
in becoming highly technically
(Continued on Page 6)

} generally regaled

the Davidson campus. Is a’ student, |

By J. T. MORTON
COUNTRYMAN

A God
made the tillers of the soil, with
their characteristic stooped shoul-
ders, worried brow, and scrawny
Nands. He made the yokels, clod-
knockers, hicks, rubes, louts, to
stcady the nerves of flustered na-
tions and feed our famished lands,

Unpolished he stands, the emblem
of fidelity. Uneducated too per-
haps. yet he ponders the problems
of life with the shrewdness of a
Grecian philosopher. Through trail-
ing clouds of glory, he sits and views
the naughty world go by, secure
with seasoning.

The jar-flung fad of unionization
has seeped through every class of
humanity except the obscure-farm-
ing element of our country. The
individualistic countryman contin-
ues to milk Old Molly seven days
a week without necessitating a sit-
down strike. Tle still ploughs the
turf nine hours a day without
punching stop-clocks on each turn
-of the row.

The quiet serenity of the verdant
countryside in spring is like a paint-
ed picture with its studied calm,
broken with the occasional mooing

of cows, chirping of crickets, the”

cooing of turtle doves. A wistful
flower gently beckons its Mead with
the breeze, while the dainty petals
flutter, to the green. These magical
traits of Mother Nature fashion the
honest and conservative country-
_man, “the backbone of our na-
tion.” ae

BUMMERS BENCH with plush-

cushions. trim back and two
signalling flags would be a unique
and fashionable Senior gift for the
Centennial Class. It would be lo-
cated at the thumbing corner. We'll
fag it “The Bummer's Paradise.”
Imagine the benefits—no arm cal-
esthenics, swolten feet. and thumb
dislocations !

Then too, Davidson College could
enumerate it with the other pio-
necring achievements.

ed

Davidson's student prize- loafer is
Pinky Puss Mills, Persistent Geor-
gia porch sitter on. sunny after-
noons, Flounders around Efird’s
Charlotte store. and plans to estab-
lish perennial interest in the con-
cern. Slumbers en masse the noon
and night. Not of hoi polloi of
Greenville. S.C. but grower of
gardenias, groomer of Euicks.

Medioere sartorial —connisseur,
in conservative
coatvand genteel cravat. Excitable
squecky voice when tortured by his |
Hote! Gedrgia Arms — denizens.
Beaming counténance slit by friend-
ly slouchy smile and topped by
toupee of dirty yellow! interspersed
with sprangling gold.

Aimlessly shuifles along with

padded position, gecretary et cetera

included:in cotton mill set-up back
home. Blushes in profusion when
the butt of friendly jests.

Corn-tusker Carlson, the boy
with the flustered countenance. Ru-
mor is that he is a Bolshevic. Dan-
sant Jover, and listed with Greens-
boro’s upper “SOL.” Like the other
Briarhopper Boys. he is of Swedish
ancestry. Quibbles with Yates Fai-
son on problems of life.

Opinion: Bekeves himself to be
better looking than Ed Armfield,
but can't prove it. Worried because
best Greensboro girl stated that he
was ugly. The ugly duckling! Ex-
pert twirler of the racket. Road
House fan on Sunday nights, where
he sips the breath of spring. Rec-
ommended to be chief muletcer for
Centennial pageant.

A new gymnasium for Davidson
High School will -be -built in the
very near future.

Davidson High School will grad-
uate thirty seniors at the com-
mencement exercises on May 25.

POME...
I'm a little prairie flower
— Growing wilder- every ‘hour ; -
Nobody tries to cultivate me—
T stink.
ee
Broadmindednefs is the ability to
smile when you suddenly discover
that your roommate and your girl

are missing from the dance floor.

|

\
