Page Two

The Dabidsonian

' Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collesiale Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
Coblean fb Be bate
a20 Mann Bo vLaK NOY
Th Soa

ve

cuiciin

Entered as second-claes matévr at the Post Office at Davidson,

Notth Cyrotina, under the act of March Jrd, 1879

We have always been and always wiil be
in favor of Davidson's high seholastic stand-
ards, bur would we. destrey this to let in a
herd of brainless football toters: Absolutcly
no]

This editorial does not contradict the edi-
torial of two wecks ago coneerning the ath-
jetie siutation. We still agree that if an
aiummus or triend wishes to help athletes or
any fjother stndents through school, this
should be. permitted and weleomed. - We
stl hope that sometime athletic seholar-
ships might be arranged. At present, how-
ever, we await with ‘bated breath the ac-
tions of the Southern Conierence in session.

< ok x

You. The Editor...

During the past three months, the cditors

_ot The Dayidsonian have made a sineere at-

lempt to put out an improved paper; one
that will please every student.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPERATES A FREE LUNCH

COUNTER FOR BUMS ALID
HOROES 7

THE: FEED FROM 10 TO 25

DAILY

JOE D'URSO.

WEDNESDAY, DEC. 8, 1937,

Dance. week-end, even tholigh
unfortunately attended by small
number. was degided triumph for

ithe council and the new plan. Alt|led chuggle lugging :
in all a typical Davidson set with | price of milk blew sky high in

lthe exception peraaps that ouisid-
ers scarce—two. three ciected by
the new committee for the only in-
iraction of the rules. But some

Hlovely girls and gallant escorts. Un- !
derstand the PIl's lost around $150 Cothran, Ben Wyche,- and Little...
ian, the week-ond, which is rather, Imagine their surprise (or chag-

ithis is certainly not the council's

" King For A

Day

By CHUBBY KING

‘drinks being Heifer Highballs. Milk
tulips. and ' Cow-nadian — Clubs
| Charlie Smith and Pete Marchant
races. and

Charlotte. Tavern losing money as
profitiess on this commodity. Also
rthat venerable spot empty by 2
A, M.

| Alumni return—Sugg, Armfield,

jremarkable considering small rin) at new situation. [ wonder if
jamount of publicity given these they complied. Jerry Harris to
dances and however. the blame for; dance with his Mooder ... Mary

Sadler, Johnny's sister, in debut to

Several features have been added, moze Davidson dances -°. . Ray Pittman’s

DICK VOWLES .. _.. Editor-in-Chief TEMPLE UNIVERSITY ibut can be placed upon those indi- ;

Southern Gonference
“On the Spot”...
(Continued fr. .a Page One)
Now can we believe that the Southern
Conference is abiding by its own constitu-

tion or attempting to make others abide by

it? Then of what earthly purpose is a consti-

tution? WE BELIEVE THAT THE—

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE WILL

Paper.

body besides the faculty and the students ~
who wrote the paper ND the Ediior (don’t
torget him, would realize the fact that a
paper was published by the students of Dav-
idsor, “Kor a Bester Davidson,”

-\lready there have ‘been mutinous mur-
murings about the campus. The word goes
around that the Davidsonian is slipping, thac

—the old days of brilliant and hard-working

i

writers and cditors Wad passed, leaving the

ABOLISH RULE 13 IN THEIR COMING | paper without a brain to stand under, It is

MEETING. And that we recommend un-
less the conference decides to enforce their
rules, which is now next to impossible.

Nor does Davidson College have only an
chjective interest in this mecting and vits
results. Dr. Oren Moore. president of the
Alumtini Association states
of the Charlotte News: ~) have proot that
Rot a single tean in the Southern Conier-
enee ts adhering to its regulations.” He does
not except Davidson toin-dieatatement,

Hugh Query, editor of the Gastonia Ga-
zette is even more vehement. He states:
“Even, at Davidson there is no simon-pure
policy. Several of the football players are
being helped through school, on the quiet by
alumni and others. Technically speaking,
the rules of the Southern Conference are
being broken. Davidson is violating the let-
ter of the law, if not the spirit, in allowing
its athletes to.accept even a minimum of |
help from other than natural sources.”
wel etThaps these Statements are too. vee
hement, especially Edius Query’s, but there
is a great deal Gi iradh cherein, Davidson's
violations are relatively minor compared

with the wholesale subsid:zation existing in)

most Southern schools. Fut how can Dav-—
idson be blamed when the cases mentioned
have been ‘submitted to the Southerm Con-

IN TILE SOLTEERN CONFERENCE.

llowever. we hope that the Conierenee
will ahide by and enforee the much at-
tacked Rule 2 of the same: article. This
States that “no undergraduare student shall
be eligible tor varsity athleties until he has
passed’ twenty four semester hours or
thirty-six quarter hours, Aiter an under-
graduate student has become cligidle for
athletics, he nrast, to be eligible ior any en-
suing year, have passed twenty-four sem-
ester hours or thirty-six emarter-hours of
the previous year.”

After all, a college is supposed to have
some scholarship standards, but Editor
Query does not seem to think so. He ac-
cuses Davidson College, in the same article
as above, of being “so all-fired exclusive and
high-minded.” Since when have alumni had

the audacity to suggest that the College

i

iN a recent issue ~

:

lower its standards to pick up and gather

into its ranks football material rather than
college material? i

noted tor their brillianee or at least, that

ferenee and approved, THE BLAME-SLAES ;

iruc that no one columnist, or writer of any
kind. ever conceived a particularly alarm-
ing assemblage of thoughts or projects
hadn't been thought of by somebodrelse

body attitude is responsible for the lack o/

creative etiort expended on our rag. as it is

responsible for such other noble and praise-
Worthy things as aur ctforts al imitating a
large and vicious eolony of swarming hees
while we are in. what is euphemistically
caiied chapel. y.

Some vf the unofticiat comment heard
around the campus is really enlightening
and probably would be even more enlighten
ing and create more of a stir, if its author

However, on being Questioned as
to the advisability of taking bac-

teriology in undergraduate work,

r. Perlezweig replied with an em-
phatié “mo.” His point fay .in the
fact that the stadent only picked
up a mass of jumbled and seattered
iacts concerning that subject.

The point is that, Dr. Perlaweig's
statement applies to the bacteriol-
ogy courses in many colleges, but.
in.our minds aad we don't believe
in his, it does not apply to the local
course. The local course ig a gen-
eral course dealing primarily with
the fundamentals of technique in,
the lab, a general knowledge of the

—t-terms involved, and a few of the

major pathogenic bacteria. Wow-
ever it is not a smattering know-

sooner than his diseavery, (ut the erudent | ledge of a myriad of bacteria and
their charactertsties.

This letter is. printed mereiy to
explain what might be a rather dis-
astrous ‘misunderstandiny. Dr.

what he did say. but. as we said
before. his statement did fot apply.
here.
ALPHA EPSILON DELTA,
Pre-Med. Fraternity.

+ & kk

' SCIENCE MOVIES
| OF LITTLE VALUE,

would iust give it that added dignity which—l SAYS STUDENT...

comes as a resuli of publieation, Anything
that stops just one iota short of patent libel
or rank detamation if, of course. there is
any value whatsoever in it - will be printed.
Only in this way can we learn, first, what
readers think of The Davidsonian aiter they
have had time to consider their opinions:
and second, what readers think of things on
and-oif the.campus pertaining to Davidson:
and third. what they think we should do
about these abuses that exist—at. least,
those we haye any power to controi. That
is not very wide latitude, but we can't help
that,

But there is one requirement we insist on.
Letters must be signed. Although the name
wul not necessarily be published at the same
time the letter apoears. it must be there,
with the editor. for purposes of identifica-
tion. ,

The author may advocate death. by Tethal
gas one week, and death by the hot squat
(clectrie chair to youse) the next. Let him
not be ashamed to retract his assertion
many times. The span of life of the paper
is measured by the amount of. interest the
students will take in it. Who are we to say
he should be reiused the columns of the
paper because of that?

__The rest you can supply for yourself ; it
would be superfluous in us to tell you that
we want your comments on all and sundry
worthy problems. If you don’t want them
printed, then we'll rot along with you in the
tut of a complacency that seems, like pros-
perity, to be “just around the corner.”

—FITZ DADE.

| Eni practically astamed of

science department at

ices with regard to the. picture
which was to be shown, T went to
lo the lecture room to see thé supe
1 posedly educational pictyre, Power
on Parade. 1 had been
skeptical of what [ would see wher.
1 tirst heard the title, but believing
in the sciente department. that the
pictures, lectures, ere, which they
present jor us are not just taking

| up our time but are adding to our

sy
Davidson. |
The other night, after hearing not- -

rather |

the baritone singer. But. being a

student in the science department, -

[ thought it only wise to better my-
seli by seeing Power on Parade.
Evidently the person who booked
the piciure had taken the produc-
er's-word ior it! 1 surely hope he;
hadn't seen it before presenting it
tor’ the presentation proved more
than humorous. Many students,
some of the faeuly. and a couple.|
of ‘visitots, spent a solid hour of
usetul time seeing molten iron be-
ing poured from a ladle into a form,
cylinders and erankshaiis being
shaped, the parts being swune. io-

‘gether and the nuts tightened io

|

.enee department have such aPic-
tures?
What about it. Department of

Science? —KUPUS “AELISON; -

‘ations for its

‘about Surface tension and conduc- |
tivity. Why can't Dafidson’s sci-

held them in ptace, and then a se-
pics of views of the Twin-Ciy
(something) tractors  complctety
assembled_—Lhe_ other reels af the
movie consisted of a salesman’s talk
and presentation_of his tractor to;
a-iarmer,

tor_to
— |

Since most of the pictures which |

. . — i are offered by corporations are en-|
Perlzweig was absolutely right in-

tirely for advertisement purposes
and have absolutely no educational

value to college students, it vat. bear the words ‘I have here a Jet-

urally follows that the science de-,
partment should be very careful as
to what is presented. I know the:
department is, not helped finan. |
cially by bonuses from the corpor-
assistance in adver-
tising. °

Quite different from my exper-
ience here, | some Very tine
educational piotures in high school. :
t remember one particularly ond
Suriace Tension, and ¢ think an-'
other was Conductivity.
were educational pictures and when»
1 leit [ knew something worthwhile |

Sau

vthey could only be made to

wood Hill remained, and toots off,

in pushit to Raleigh for same girl

of last week-end ... Elmore Holt,
ve .

the Red’ Terror, rose again and

terrorized Greensboro,

Tavern Friday and Saturday
Nite. Sane scene repeated with
‘great milk fraternities: featured

a’

ce

was plenty woo woo around...

. +. George Matthis waltzing with
Shagging date ... T. Henderson
with red ~ carnation

in coca-cola
bottle =~ sentimental remembrances
—his affections have shifted south-

ward... .

s

Tak

e It Easy

By Rut Miller

DID YOU—know that there was
more rain at Davidson than any
other college in the United States
with the exception of Chucky Tech

and Lineoin’ Memorial University ? |

(uiotticial report) — Kaow that
this past set of danees was one of
the best ‘ever held hy this school?
—tEver call for your date and jind

that she WAS ready?7-— Ever no-
tice how people quit supporting a
losing football team??? — Lver

trom Doctor Sentelle’ without
feeling the least dit of ahxiety? —
See the All-Star game in Charionte
last Saturday? There were a lot
ot good boys playing there that
would do very well at Davidson if
wink
— Know that there
were only seventeen shepoing days
‘ill Chrisumas.

It'S ONE WAY — A cenain
chutth, so the tale was told to me,

ler

the same wav

These did not have money cnough-to pay |

its pastor's salary and other ex-
penses, soa new treasurer was
elected. He sent out letters to de-

|linquent, and §Q per cent of thent:

paid up their dues He then sent
a letter to the remaining neglect-
tul members. and all responded Fa
one. This one received a third let-
tcr, and ke too paid up.

Orr

Buy Christmas Seals

Shortly aixerwards the pastor
met this inember and said: “Don't

you think our new treasurer is do-!
ing splendid work? My salary is:

now paid up and there is consider-
able money left inthe church

treasury.

“Yes."* he answered. “He is a
good collector, no doubt, but, it's
disgraceful for us to have a treas-
urer who. doesn't even know how
to spell correctly. Why, would you
believe it—he is so ignorant he be-
gins ‘cockroach’ ‘with a ‘k’ and
spells ‘dirty’ with a double ‘r’.”
“WAS IST DASS—Adan, after
awakening froma deep sleep, and
viewing for the first time his help-
mate in all her marvelous beauty,
smiled broadly in amazed admira-
|

ROLLS DEVELOPED

Any size roll kodak film developed, eight

never-tade Volox Prints for onty ¢
VALUABLE PREMIUMS GIVEN?
Mall Your Films to 25
°
Jack Rabbit Co.~
SPARTANBURG, B.C, (COIN)
Mailing Envefopes for Flims Furnished

Gon, Then be began .counting his
oribs. “Ll wonder,” he mused, “ff a
Jinan could do without all his abs i”

YVINGS—There are many kinds
of things. The hest dictionaries will
list all the things chat anyone couid
possibly be interested in. For in-
stanee a thing in Psychology is a
| thing. That is undisputable. But
probably the best things in view
right now are Christmas holiday's
and Spring vacation.

THUME NAIL SKETCH—This
“person is surely known by all Dav-
idson students by size if not by a
personal acquaintanceship. He

tecats them like he is one of the
boys. ‘Ile has a trim black mous-
tache and is usually seen wearing a
suit of army khai and leather
‘boots. He is apparently never too
| busy to stop ior a few words and
is always willing, nay, even anxious
to tell a story of the army. Mes: of
his time is spent in.a building back
of West dormitory where he does
practically everything that needs to
»be done. He has bees attending
Davidson longer: than any student
now here and the department with
Which he works could not get alotg
without him as he will admit.

SERIOUS THOUGHT — The
only pisee where errors cannot take
| Place, whether in baseball or liie,
is in the grandstand.

Visit
-~ KING’S
SODA & GRILL»
| o

FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES
REGULAR DINNERS

e

Popular Brands of

Cigarettes 12c
(Camels, Luckies, Old Golds,
Chesterfields, Raleigh,

Piedmont)
‘ a

— Free T élephone
Ps ,

Corner 4th & S. Tryon St.

”

Also Tenny and Caddie woohooing.

a

is -
older than the average student but:

CHARLES MOORE .. Manager readable type purchased, and more pictures | HAS WRAPPED MORE viduals who did have money and white tie again completely red with
EDITORIAL STAFF used. Now we waat vour frank criticism THAN 100,000 time to leave campus for recreation lipstick ... Bull Durham with Sage
. : . . . . COPIES OF THE - i fai — : ... Biddl Q
rocynugh Dade. scccececeesceeecoseeeesereecesAssistant Editor and any suggestions that will aid us in put- TEMPLE NEWS / lin company with fairer sex—but from New Jersey ; iddle Ivey
wid Bei oo. -Managing Isditor . . . : who stil-couldirs attend the dances... flipping ashes recklessly into ex-——
Wesigy Ceahll Manac.og Editor ing OL a paper More representative of the And while in reforming mood: posed parts Cleptomaniac Fai-
Cochr anaging F. . . i : wae
| Purter Managing Editor, witule student body. We will actervape to Davidson's prid he b ; and son in action with Miss Shull over
Stas anaging Etditor ” ° . . / avidson’s prides~the booers a son in 4 i
B Vsariie aNSports Eaitor . catty out your requests as far as possible, STUDENT FOR LIFE: foot clumpers — gathered courage pictures... Bill Davis heavy duty
wen Cooke 2 sociate Editor 5 UM _ - in , aan . wo.
Sam. Cerbran ssociate Editor For that reason. a qnestionaire conecrn - ae OF HAWAII REGENT. 1S Monday and presented their dis- | courting Lizzie.. ;
tact Pt ack Seociate Editor | 3 NG : ‘ Hi RY LIFE MEMBER gusting spectacle whi ‘as visttor! Lucky Fred Smith possesses Cor-
Hector MeGeachy ssociate Editor ing what each individual reads in The AN HONORARY LU NES 8 ; , ; sel friend wt kes |
ater. crate Editor . : ; . - OF THE STUDENT BODY jsat_on the platiorm who, no doubt. uelius girl friend who strokes tus
Sam Rel ae wie Eduer) Davidsonian will be placed in the hands of _ | was greatly dismayed and won-; bald head when Fred's tired
BUSINESS STAFF every Student in chapel next weck. The | dered how such entertainment , Arrowsmith and Barrow with en-
Ande TM eee eee So sreeoesna Collection Manager questionaire will also be reprinted in The e could have originared in collegiate ; tire Counc . dates in one room . 7
atimer ---Advertising sana . . . . . t . . . td nel a ae Ma
TM er! -Asst. Advertising Manager, Davidsonian ior the convenience of other | etters to the Editor brains: A’ pity ~the visitor could Charite lalone reports ; one
Wesity Coghill -Girculation Manager bseribe BE HONEST abort ° not have heard some of their other! Mushmaker Johnson and wife hap-
Sam. Hemphill : t. Business Manager subsert TS. ae ; te & bout your accomplishments such as jeering. | py in Kentucky . .. Johnny ‘Tice
—_ ; cpinions and criticisms. {t's your paper. PRE-MED GROUP knowledge of science, I let my reas- , at ealling. airplane sailing. ete. celebrated twenty First Birthday
THIS WREK . S—_—__—__m | EXeains oning decide for me over my past} Due to the fact that everybody with storebought shave ... “Little
Wesley Coghiil.. aan. -Assignments | e Dear Fditor: experience, and“took in the picture. | scattered ae nin impos- , Appling Dan Mizell wreaking de-
wa ° a _ f | ' ° , . : . ible to differentiate dirt, so am: struction upon shins. tuxs, and eye-
Ovid Bell — -.-. Page One | W, th 1 St ff ‘oi io. | | had been on classes, in lab. etc. 58Ble to aali bal why : . Y ; J
Joe Calvin -.8:. a 4 nee Three ? 4 l ne a | choniet were Presa clerics with the exception of one fiitv min- leaving it in its original jumble 2.9) ning dresses introducing his. new ~
Terrell - Porter Page Five _ hool of ~ dici hen he spoke | #t¢ period. from breakfast until Frank Harrison and Charlie Yates innovation, the Buzzard Hop _._._.—
Perry Sloan ~ ~ ~ ~ Page Six - . . . ot . schoo! ot medicine, when het a supper. There was a iine musical 'in plain clothes to formal dances at! Ned Iverson requests that close \
rr) ano... F Sis li there is one thing this paper needs, it to bre-medical students rere ast concert scheduled for the same,Salem... Craver and Thompson to| watch be kept upon Jim Cowan's
- - - -. “x Editar” reek, av. t_a_ distorted |“ . spans F
is @ good *J.etters to Ye Editor” column. wen The hee Teor hose stachenee, [Dight; which undoubtedly was more ~Queens .. . Henry Lyons and Ten-|S. T-Lidard at Queens . .. Why did
There_is_never an insiant's truce between |. Not that | mean we don't have the clements °| thr. , a [his own,| than. worth white: however, with TY Cook, Bill Broadway and Wenie | Cleveland buy a set ticket and just
virtue and vice.- ~Thoreau , . rough no smtentions of. is own. three classes for the next day, 1! Cline Saturday and, Sunday in Sal-| attended Friday night dance?
. , ot one right now 1 not that £ mean what we Dr. Perlaweig was a great aid to didn’t see how I could aitord toiisbury . .. Bounder Bryant aban- Dear Miss Woo Woo, we missed
have now is not good enough to put in the pre-medical students both in ; his take the hour out to enjoy hearing dons Durham conference when Boo | you so terrible this week-end, es-
For some time |! wondered ii any- conferences and in his lectures. Walker, Sam Spencer, and Hay-| pecially Red Fox, but still there

