Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1937.

Davidson Buys Costumes
For Centennial Pageant

Contract Let For Assorted
Robes to Adorn Performers

OLD BICYCLE SECURED

Town Taitle

The Bridge Club met on Wed-
r j SopENs ; nesday afternoon at the home of
Costuming to Be South s Most Mrs. E. J. Erwin,
Authentic ‘ ae SED
San Vata Miss Kate Douglas, who for sev
Javids ipe has one
Davidson College has gone aal-aeles” hae bean aeeoustgenlt

on a wholesale shopping spree

1 report 1 ta he ifr 7 “7 icel
tor clothes that were worn aj. SE ee ees pease nacht)
century ago, and for costumes] 4, relevHie CIRU ca Tie: ite inet
that made this section of the elt Eee en] akan aA tenant
country picturesque long be is ia i oe i oem
fore white men came AL pa (OTM ea lla

\ contract has been let for 150 | until tall
E r wee re | at oO
Por oe Gees Cunning | Miss Dorothy Johnston and Miss
; \\ Aldiscanae -caball Elizabeth Shewmake, now attend-
7 ponte | the | rsity ¢ North Caro-
oi 2 é +} ne A i Chapel Il, spent the week-
; sees Rete ad ae : ir p nts in Davidson.
Heli Pitices o aclthe cana catia | he Davideor Hugh ssenenl Or:
1 ees aa ee tra gave a concert in Chambers
peters : : ‘| Building on last Wednesday eve-
ri i < 4 ManCONE LLY * g Members of the -orchestra
aad los
; + T i Lovers Club .was en-
‘ ie tertained at a garden party at the
STEER ty con, Home of Mrs. Fraziet Hood on
vate prbilced inet uy afternoon, Mrs. J. M.
0 edeann aa D is gave a paper on Modern
me det D Mr d one on Gar
| vill t
t the t 1
wdered wig a6
ae i yy: Aera will M Phillip Slaughter on Satur-
; rt tenranertine evening gave a dinner Sse)
4] sphere the re of the young couples of
I Star > Lineberry main
; Tey oRE o
7 Miriam Goodrum and
Att ities ae ear thers from WoC, U..NoG
Pi ms : nsboro the week-end
: \ Mi i - A with their parents
! !] 1 1 t vo
j e As-You-Like-Club held its
a ist ting with Mrs. J. R. Cald-
Che program was one of cur-
( oO
rT Helen Cumnock, now pres-
tf Tite Sophomore Class at

Quec Chicora College ha re-

n been elected president of the
a ts to } J Cl for next year

ear at Dav and reta oO
member of the it 1 pub Ab fifteen mbers of the
lication technical ability is Davigson Girl Scouts Troop under
then p ‘ When men vote for the direction of Miss Bonnie Shel-
the man out of a group of third ton and Mrs. Norman Shepard have
car me © edit that pub- gor camping near Davidson for

a few day

Fred Beadle was recently award-
ed th trophy at Davidson
! r his fine work along

a scv inal cove or onde Cheerleaders
I must admire the venerated feels Hi Practice

iffer for
e staff. His venera reaches its Le
alia eet reason when he Dozen Sophomores Try Out
iN t t MEL Aeee oe For Positions As
| rt rt Cheerleaders
a 2 At d dozen members of the ris-
Sie Z re ing junior class signified their de-
Pius SE 2 f leading the Davidson_cheer
eta yt ye ahha) ir se nnext year by turning out
nat eee Be Cause to practice yells with senior cheer
ee He Mow ee tieader re Holt last Monday
ths nen t-hads Four practice Were held last
pe ea : be EUS. 1 cording Holt, and. se
y se held thr the end
ek. Not It has been
ike up vet but vine will be ate
( ted before the end of the week.
new senior cheerleader is
several innovations — for
students alone, but your a ell Se sce anos Ran wit
Ant ae IC nine eaid ied ae be introduc ed. Additions
| } Ht be ears gym-
Shite aoe re os isthe po ind “nov-
: pe ee aah elty pep mec g given
mae i ao yee “With the suppo re student
‘1 a ie tan eee oy yody, we hope to a superb
beet heslenowschow Pareaiint ecring ates next ass for a
an py ining football team,” Holt stated
: Ore eal Those out for the tion of jun-
AN EX-EDITOR TEETER SYS tS eatery a une
hill, Bob Gish,, Reid Newland, J. A.
Mawhinney, William Telford, Don
VOICE: STUDENT Davidson, Ken Darby, Dick Taylor,
(Gontinned fis HVAC 1) Nesbitt Elmore, Pre ton Lincoln,
lo other guest artists will also. Rock” Deaton, John Lattimer, Ho-
be presented on the program. Miss 4 Lutz. Of this number four
Betty Lassiter, 5, and Master Ver-| Tesular cheerleaders will be elected
non Lassiter, 3, of Winston-Salem, , "Xt year by the student body, af-
will appear, playing the violin and, te? the first football game.
Sea et ey © pont numbers. William Ezell and R, Us
head of Davidson's music depart- BOREL wl Biay violing, BLBEVeY
ment. Ross the viola, and Warren Perry
Master Lassiter formerly _ per- Dabepel tie cou

There is no admission charge and

formed before Davidson audiences , ;
: mea the program ‘is open to the public.

as drum-major for the band at two
football «gamfes last fall. Although
he

PHI BETA KAPPA WILL

desirous of

Was playing some
sort of musical instrument, it was (Continued from Page 1)
found that he could not handle 4! ternity and also a member of the
wind instrument, and therefore Was | Scabbard and Blade.
assigned to a cello one-eighth’ of| (Co), S, Rk. McKee, of Asheville,

the regular size. |N. C, is a gradtate of Davidson
A string quartet, composed of College and was for some. years the

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

SECOND SEMESTER
1936 - 1937

(Continued from Page 1)

the the tryouts have pro-
gressed and the co-operation shown
| by the students. Great possibilites
of a magnficent production have
been shown, because df this ready
| response from the student body.

Mr. Viehman stated that he was
especially glad that the agreement

| VIEHMAN PICKS
|
|
|

way

Saturday, May 22, at 12:30 o’clock.

JUNIORS TAKE

(Continued from Page 4)

in the Intra-mural golf tournament. ] group on the mechanics

The Sophs have a record of two de-| ing a missionary

feats and no wins at present. Sunday morning Dr.

DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND

(Continued from Page

ot

writer and |

The Freshmen seem to have the| Eddy, famous Christian
strongest chance for second hon-] student leader, preached
ors They have won one from the | mon The conference was brought
Seniors and lost one to the cham-]to a close with a Communion
pion Juniors. vice

5 |
5

5 | sent.
becom- |

| given and its activities were

Sherwood | cussed.

the ser- |
ing
elected
Ser

|

brief history of the fraternity was

vice-president and Tom Daniels as

GERMAN CLUB HOLDS °- secretary and treasurer. At the
pl completion of the elections a re-
(Continued from Page 3) port of finances for the past year

was given, and, then, the fraternity
adjourned until next fall.

Following the initiation a

dis-
DAVIDSON STUDENTS CLOSE
The next order of business was cre ehanuaarertane
| the election of officers for’ the com (Continued from Page 1)
year. Monroe Wicker was] itely successful. The success of
president to succeed DBig-|] the event this year only furthered
ham. Andy Wilkerson will serve as}]'the opinion that ‘BOWERY’ will

live forever.

between the faculty and the stu-
MORNING—9:00 O’CLOCK DATE AFTERNOON—2:00 O’CLOCK dents was passed. This will en-
able him to have the student  re-
hearsals with no conflicting ex-
age yy R. 0. T. C. 12 22 32, 42. aminations. Also this will give
y time enough for the pageant to ac-
| quire that desired polish,
Bible 22B, D, Biology 22B, Chem. 12, Econ. 62, French 12B, : ; le phren P ‘ tak vi
iego. 21, Germa 22B, Greek 12B isto 62, 82, Math Tuesday, Education 82, French 72, Gefman 32, Greek 52, Music | hree important contracts were
Gego. 21, German 228, Greek 12B, History f fh at
12B, D, 42, Psychology 42A, Sociology 32 i Sia 22, 32, 42, Physics 72 eect molubyi ey, Wi con:
3 tract with Van Horn and Sons of
Biology Business 52A, Bible 22E, English 12H, 22A, C, Philadelphia will bring 450 cos-
F, French 22C, Greek 12A, History I2A,C, Math 32, Phil- Wednesday, tumes to the campus. Van Horn
> Pp} , tS yA 5 ;
Spon iia hysies 42, Polit. 52, Spanish 22A, 52, App. Math. May 26 and Sons are the largest pageant
32, Psychology 32. os costumers in the United States. A
Bible 12A, C, Bus, 42, Biol Econ. 22A, English 12A, C, ahuvide contract for the lighting and sound
French 32A, German 12A, C, History 22, 32, Span. 22B, 32, May 97° Econ. 32, English 121, Psychology 42B, Span. 12C was made with Harrington-Russell
Physics 22C. of Asheville. Also a contract was
Matl 12B, D, Biol. 22C, Ct 62, Ec 2B made with the Lee Construction
EEE MOLE yeoe: , Bio eye as eaten , Friday Company for the building of the
nartish « . J >. Devoe Ss y Vay “ ~y , | *
Meu able: losophy 52 32A, Physics 224, Span May 28 stage on Richardson field. © My.
DC Hibbs, Tennessee architect, and
—~ aaa a baa IE Mr. Viehman, the director, drew
Astronomy A Bie cee} a2; Bes v6 Be say reels Saturday, Chem, 72, 82, Fine Arts 32, French 22B, D, Math. 121, K, |} up the plans for the stage together.
2, Eng ‘ “ Z ology 02. cr 4 Se > hin 4 { , ; .
sree MTaER, ‘OR, Puveien sa; Spun 126 4 ee : May 29 Music Span. 124, Chem, 52. Mr, Hibbs is known for his archi-
vibe ae — tectural drawings of Chambers
Bible 12F, Biol, 12, Chem. 42A, B Econ. 42, English building. This stage is to have
Monday, 12k Serer rie PPeo« Sop ; eyo) PP ES ‘ Alaa : on
2i, 42; German 12B, Greek 22B, Latin 12, Phys. Ed very rs ; he ieK
May 31 BD BEVEHElaBY tee, ; See, hes fei to be eke
: after a pattern of the campus anc
re TF i exces Pa pesos will be quite striking to the eye.
them 228, Biol 22A, Keon 52, English 22B, E, 52, French Tuesday) Mr:-Viehman wished to stress-the
42, Geog? 22, German 22A, History 12B, D, Math. 12A, C, Taner Mr. é ri o stress th
Philosophy 32, Physics , 32, Polit. 42, Span. 12B. | fact that the was cutting rehear-
— vee —- Rikie Tek B ny Git 2A. English 127. GOG sals down to a minimum. This will
Mible 12K, Bus, 32, em, 22A, Iinglish 12K, G, Geog. Soe Na . ‘ Mn Cee UR EOE
: Wadnesdhy, 32, French 22A, 323, German 52, History 52, Math. 12H,.J| 1eccssitate the presence of every
Bible 52, Business 52C, English 22D. June 2 Physies 12, 62, Greek 22A, Polit. 32B, Psychology one at every rehearsal. Each re-
2, Span. 12D, Greek 72, App. Math. 42. hearsal will not last longer than
Fone hour and will begin and end
r ly.
Classes of the second semester will close on | promptly

GOLF TOURNAMENT CLOSES

(Continued from -Page 4)

in the tournament. They
have won ten of the twelve matches
they

ond state

have played this season. The
teams who have fallen before them
|are: Hampden-Sydney, University
lof Tennessee, Amherst, University
jof Georgia, Junior College of Au-

gusta, University of Alabama, South
The Citadel, Wake
Forest two times. The regular team
Henson Maples,
Charlie Ross, Bill Snow, and Jimmy
Westall.

Carolina, and

is composed of

Davidson talent will play several | head of Bingham School.

Copyright 1937, Liccetr & Myers Topacco Co,

aoe Pat

fa

Taste that says ““Come

... for the full measure of
things you want in a

ey

pu MO,
Gsieield

again”

Mildness that says ‘Come often”

the good

cigarette

we invite you to enjoy CHESTERFIELDS
