Page “Two

Che Dabidsontan

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

»Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten eents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

f

REPRESENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
Collese Publishers Kebresentative

420 MADISON AVE New Yor. N.Y

Cricaco - Boston + LOS ANGELES + San Faancisco

“Entered as second-class matter at, the Post Office at, Davidson,

North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DICK VOWLES ._.

CHARLES MOORE... .._.....---- -Business Manager -
oO
EDITORIAL STAFF
Fitzhugh Dade ce eee Assistant Editor
Ovid Bell 2.2. Managing Editor

Joe Calvin... Editor

_... Editor-in-Chief

stadent, a clear thinker, and a man of wide
experienec, he introdueed new and fascinat-
ing interpretations of the Seriptures.

However, from our observations, Dr.
Darnhouse tailed to fulfill the intention and
purpose of fall services the renewal of our
spirnual fives, The general unrest during
the chapel hour, the poor aftendance at eve-
ning services, and the occasional cominents
irom students revealed this tact.

In his ctiorts to bring out the true mean-
ing of the Seriptures, perhaps Dr. Barn-
house was overtly mathematical and logical
in his reasoning. \We don't have any doubt
but that the Philadelphia minister is a Chris-
tian of the highest caliber, but it seems that
he did not introduee as much of that spirit
as he might have. An over display of emo-
tion is Hever advisable ida student services
nor does it obtain the desired end, but a
greater emphasis upon personal religion
; seems to be more efiective.
| Some students complained that Dr. Barn-
house's sermons were just too deep, The
iauk probably lies with the student in that
case? Those complaints show lack of at-
iention. The Davidson student body seems

Wesley Coghill Eduor 19 have built up a further aversion to preach-
Pere Porter ene Klwer ers who start their stories with “When 1
Ouew Cone saumte Eater) was in,.." There is no foundation for such
Pettit Ren Meets Editor ; a feeling either, A minister mas: illustrate
vector (Aceate a eeeate Editor ®” his sermons to ereate the desired efieet and

Sam  Rybaru
enry Baker

Aady Turner oe wee Collection Manager
h, Latimer... ivertising Manager
Bor Mer . ertising Manager

Coghill treulation Manager

Weshe

wenn ASSt

Religion is the inspiration of the secular
life, the breathing of an cternal spirit
through the temporal world.

s—Henry Drummond.

ee

We extend our sincerest sympathies
to Euclid Fant in the recent loss of
his father.

Saturday's Game...

A iecling of extreme disappointment and
almost ‘resentment pervaded the campus
aiter last Saturday's game with V.M.ji. Of
course, deieat_arrer almost certain pros-
peets of victory is a hard thing to swallow.

However. $0 oiten such a deieat brings
about a tendeney to blame almost anything
and anybody, instead of appraising the true
state of aifairs. When the Wildeates enter-
ed the ganze, they entered under a consid.
erable disadvantage. A number of the reg-
ulars were out of the game due to inyuries.

So, fellow students, don’t blame the team.
They did the best they could, Alumni, don’t
show yoursclves the poor sports that alumni
oi other institutions often do. Don't blame
the coach. What more could he have

srettiation Manager :
Business Manager |

Otome

hold ‘attention.
Perhaps we are wholly to blame— 1. may
be that our mind just isw't decp enough nor

our heart big enough to comprehend.
a a 2

Pan-Hellenic Council...
. For some reason unknown to us, not a
‘student body to this day has really co-

operated with the Pan-[lellenie Couneii in .

all their dealings, '

- Of course, it the Council obtains a big-
time band for Mid-Winters, the students
| scem to Swing right in with the traternity
| representatives, On the other hand, if things
| «do wee go just right, those nine men are
. “om the spot.

Right now, this year, seems the time to
stop such nonsense. Diftieulties in the ta-
ner workings oi last year's Couneil phis
revised rulings coneerning daneing have
given the present Couneil more than their
Share of worries. Now that they have time
tu-consider band$-ior fortheoming dances, .
let’s bear with them.

Perhaps. remarks have been made in a
Spirit of jest, but a joke can be carried a
little too far. The mingled boos and hisses
tollowing chapel afinouncements coneerning
Council meetings even get monotonous.

it would be a great deal better to stop
criticising and “ragging.” and exhibit a Tit-
ue more spirit of co operation,

donc? The only thing he could have -pos
sibly done was ‘to send in ineapacitate
regulars with the possibility and grave dan-
ger of {further and more serions injury.

We are hot delivering a culogy on moral
victory. That phrase has been used so
mutch at Davidson thattit now stands in the
category of trite expressions. Moral vic-
tories are fine alibis but they dome add up
in points.

There are still other games in the sea-
son. Let's forget past losses and disan-
pointments and look forward to prospects
of victory in future contests.

© ¢ 4-0

Journalism Course . ..

For year after vear, ever sinee we of the
stati can remember, The Davidsonian, in
behali of a large number in the student
body, has been clamoring for a course in
journalism among other desired currnjeutum
changes.

Now our visions have been realized due
1o the energy and services of the College
alumni secretary, Fred Smith. Our thanks
to Smith for presenting the course and to
the administration for sanetioning it. Of
course, it is not a regular course in the cur-
riculum with designated hours and credits,
but it satisfies the necds of those wio reaily
desire to know tnore about newspaper work.
and those who intend to go into that profes-
sion. Sinee credit is not oifered, that‘un-
desired element, the “easy credit hound,” is
climinated.

If the student body takes an interest in
such a voluntary course, it can and may
develop into a permanent institution, a thing
that The Davidsonian has been advocating.
Let’s show that our wants were well found-

ed and not merely fictitious.
Sr A 2 A

Dr. Barnhouse . ..
This year’s minister for fall services, Dr.
Barnhouse, certainly made a decided im-

pression on us as a man of varied and di-
verse potentialities. A great traveler and

With The Staff

We really hope ye editor wonit mind us
writing a rather disconnected cotumn in-
stead of the usual long editorial that was
used last year in this space.

lt takes a good man to be-a good sales-
man but it takes a better man to be an
honest and just salesman. It also takes a
superior human to. sell his wares without
taking enemies.

The college student has ampie opportuni-
ties ‘to make his way through coliege by
selling various things. but it's a great temp-
tation to try to squeeze just 2 titde more
money out and use umnethieal business
methods,

We have often wondered if it was quite
the right thing to do to sell college iohs
to freshmen, or to take personal cuts from
bearding house money on the pari of the
manager. Ferhaps things of that sort have
never, been done at Davidson, mor should
they be.

We were rather surprised on attending
the Davidson Duke game to see a bit of
the cireus atmosphere. On inquiry we
iound that Fred Smith, publicity director.
was responsible ior the calliope and the two
clowns. For some reason, however, they
did't seem to go over, and the calliope was
hardly heard in the stands. Perhaps they
were just @ bit out of plaee in a football
atmosphere. On the cthet hand, we have
always thought the “sponsor idca” was ex-
cellent.

Here's heping that Davidson College's
high school band and football day went over
with a bang in the hearts of the youthful
visitors. Although Davidson’s. band has

flourished and continues to do so since the
arrival of Prof. Pfohl, our freshman football
‘teams seem to be declining every year (of
course we don’t know about this year’s team
yet). Let’s hope we have a freshman team
next year that will promise a great varsity
jin years to come.
SOPHOMORE STAFFER.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus in Cartoon

ye pS gh dy S

The

jie, LEAVELL BROTHER
MOST FAMOUS FAMILY IN GREEK-LETTER HISTORY? ° ? 0

ALL WERE MEMBERS OF SIGMA CHI AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI] FROM 1899 TO 1912

7 SSS

ina!

Copyright by Asscuated Colleguni¢ Pres?

Letters to the Editor

A. STATEMENT

' FROM THE

PRESIDENT... . 289.00 to the Centennial Fund and
in respouse to the inquiry raised. that wre faculty have subscribed

It will interest you to know: that

by “Chemistry Student” in the §7.620.00. The Administration and
Davidsonian- of October. 6 Presi-; ‘riends ot the College greatly ap-
dent Lingle made the following Preciate the generous response

, Statement: "The Adininistration ig Which the students and faculty have
always glad to answer questions Made and we covet their continued
that may be in the minds of the co-operation.
students coneerning the policies ofi

the College and always appreciates LIBRARY
the opportunity of doing so. When IMPROVEMENT
subseriptions were made to the SUGGESTED...
Comtennial Kuwedd by students and Dear Edisor:
faculty last spring it was stated that’

the first objective would be an In-
firmary. That was the most acute
need. Other objectives were men-
tioned ag coming next.

«ok ok

— #§__.

g

1 would Tike to make a suggestion

: dent body as & whole, and espec-
ially those who stay on the.campus
over the week-ends.

Shortly after Commencement a

. The Library, with the exception
gentieman and his

Sod itiends of Ul Colt who hae ,of the magazine room, is closed
i §90 a el ihe nines vo nd trom Saturday night to Monday

“ : / :
feered to erect the Intirmary anc morning. Now how about leaving

authorized us to proceed. We, im-
stmediately weat imo action ow plans
and specifications, and a ttle later
| hégan the erection of the building.
| The question is now raised as to
what application wii be made of
lafunds subseribed by the students
and faculty. Piease note that the
' funds were noi subseribed specifi-
| cally ‘to the Antirmary but to the - pens: Someone in the next room
Centennial Fund. The Anfirmary : ares beating out “The Anvil Cho-
was to be the first objective. What | rus” on the typewriter. After that
is to be the next objective? j someone starts a “Big Apple” out-

“ Tn a Statement made Sy the Ad- side and from then on we are sunk.
Ministration and published in the There is an urgent.need for a
Davidsonian on September 29, you redding room, and [ would like to
will find this paragraph: “A new? sec one installed.
Library building and a new Science
Hall are the immeciate objectives.
We wish that some famty who has
‘ been richly blessed with means
‘could erect one of these buildings.
It would inake a beautiful family
» memorial.” ~

a room or two open for those who
want to read on Sunday or study
Saturday nights without being
i bothered by blaring radios or ham-
mering gypewriters? On Saturday
night when we sit in our rooms.
trying to get algebra what do we
wet? Wheaties!! On Sunday when
-we are deep in Tolstoy what hap-

w

Yours truly,

cry

This Collegiate
—World

A similar statement was publish- (By Associated Collegiate Press)
ed in the September bulletin which Charter members _ of a unique
was Sent to ali Alumni. and an club.at the University of West Vir-
additional mailing Wst It is owe ginia are still smacking °ubeir lips.

idea that the funds subscribed by The cleven boys, embryo foresters,
i students and faculty should go to are suake caters,

- one or the other of these objectives, It all came about in this wise.
unless sonte friend or friends should At the aniversicy forestry camp,
rise up and erect one or the other one of the boys brought back a
ar the buildings. I am quite sure six foot black snake They didn't
that nobody realizes the need of a want the meat to go to wasie, so
new Science Hall and a new Li- the camp cook wrestled with it for
brary more than the Administra- a while and at dinner produced
lion and we are working without black snake—roast. as the main
, ceasing towards the securing of course.

qunds for these twe buildings. The eleven charter members, who
When these objectives -have been had agreed cach to cat an equal
reached we will move on to others,, portion of the meat, sat around the
and there are plenty of other. table, a little doubtful, but anxoius
things that are -needed. 10 prove their sportsmanship.

|

Time Taste

South Carolina at_ Columbia.

The Weekly

WEDNESDAY—OCT. 13

7:00 P, M. Editorial Staff of | SUNDAY—OCT. 17 :
The Davidsonian meets at the 10:00 A. M. Student Sunday
office. School class meets in Shearer
7:30 P. M. Kommerce_Klub} — Hall. ~ ;
| meets in the Philanthropic! 6:30 P. M. Colicge Vesper Ser-.
H Hall. —_— ~vice in Chambers Auditorium
THURSDAY—OCT. 14 with_Dr. Foreman of the Dav-
7:00-10.00. Social fraternities+-——idson College faculty as.

4

hold their weekly meetings.
FRIDAY—OCT. 15
~7AS P.M. Davidson College
broadcast over station WSOC,,

speaker. _

MONDAY—OCT. 18
12:00 Noon. Student meetings
are held in Chambers Audito-

Charlotte. — rium following the regular
SATURDAY—OCT. 16. chapel exercise.
12:30 P. M. Davidson College 7:00 P. M. Sigma Pi Sigma

Alumni meeting at the Colum-
bia Hotel, Columbia, S. C.

2:30 P. M. Varsity football
game with the University of

physics fraternity meets.
TUESDAY—OCT. 19.

9:00 P. M. Scheduled meeting

of Sigma Upsilon.

the-stuidents. have_subscribed S$1.-" euchtenberger, Lloyd “Feuchten- i

that [I think would benetit the stu--

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 13, 1937

King For A.
Day

By CHUBBY KING

MISCELLANEOUS MUST...
Why did Bronston Kenny leave the
Pep Tom Abbott victim of
parental displeasure — stay away

Detest ‘ghastly counterfeit atop-.
ting this column—I look in’ mir-
rors and wonder if it’s realy me—'
and unhappily decide it is. Also.

wonder whose idea it was—some- | from Greensboro... AN AN-
one with a keen sense of the ridice NOUNCEMENT TO INQUISI-
ulous, maybe. Who was this guy: TIVE FRIENDS—Boscoe Marion

is recuperating niccly from recent
inconvenience .. . Mazie Hall met
at Duke by Virginia Ritter ... Doc

Narcissus anyway... .
Only twenty-three more days un-
til the first fourth—a_ fraction—of

Davidson's social program comes Semmes and Russel Edmondson
off, so bear up, ye monks, and live: led astray .. . HENRY LYONS,
in anticipation. It’s to be a gala’ BILL. BROADWAY, AND RU-

FUS POWELL introducing Chica-
go chorines thru windows to some-
body—wonder where... .

W.C.U.N.C.—Elmore Holt dating
Alice Murdock while little Frankie
gave his all in Lexington ... Char- ’
lie Pegram returned minus his fra-
ternity pin—he dated Virginia Hun-
ter... AT.TIHE FAIR, Shirtey
Temple Calvin with > two ladies,
hampered by Sumiiérell . 7 Mar-
tin’ Luther DON'T LEAVE ME
LAFIFERTY headed home with
Menthotatum in pocket... . Rob
Smith — homesick ,. . # Rasputin
Rhinehart back from Raleigh with
new fraternity pin ideas his
head .. . and so forth.

Many, imaity years ago, a man
named Mark Antony delivered a
message and when be got to the
end of it—he quit.

occasion with alt the frills, so the
grapevine twitters....

Overheard Pete Marchant say toi
Srent Greene—"Your brother sure,
must be in love—he's wearing shoes
and everything.” simple re-
mark covers masculine side of that
_ioolish fecling very adequately. . ..
Kentucky's Own certainly uses his
“head—he's within walking distance

. 10 twenty-three day wait for
him. Wish the Blonde One
luck... . .

AT LEXNINGTON—it was rather
a damp week-end. . . . Rain all
aiternoon, .. . Love the way girls
dress for game—tweeds and scaris,
alotta color, . . . Small Davidson
cheering section with Booby Ar-
rowsmnith and Way Way Lumpkin,.
Ken Lawson and Jane | Holman,
Pete McKnight and Anna Mae

in

AUNE RDU Da eee senuenatanecnedoanceneeeeucEseeaneseusossnocere
SS tt

berger and Betty Lee ... also an-
nouncer NKieswetter jobless, Field-
ing Clark, Dick Wright, Reid Har-
:mon, Billie Crooks, Jim Hogg, and
‘Barrow... Washington and Lee
students, evidently noticing The Big
‘Apple at the VMI dances, issued a-

Your Film
Report Card

Aa veneceversoneenesecesecsonees

By HENNY B. BAKER

statement the next day prohibit- (The following film ratings are based
ing the same as unfitting for W&L upon those of “Time,” “Movie Mirror,”
| Ieeohi : ‘ I'he Digest.” « al theater adver:
| Frolics. . .. Some joke. a ae Digest.” and local theater adver

tising augmented by the columnist’s own
observations).

MYERS PARK—Friday nite. ...
| Tho’t MP had distinct aversion for
! college men. . . . "However Gales
; McClintock, John Irwin, Jim Terry,
Bil) McLean, Joc McCleskey all
; there... also Childe Harolds Hen-

derson springing about’ with an-
other lovely infant .. . Paul Mc- |
Garrity with charming person who’
| think doesn’t like me very much.
lew.
io... TO ANOTITER FAIR ONE
AT SAME SCHOOL - Dick ‘SIDE-
. BURN Taylor very apologetic over
, missing you when you passed thru
: Friday to see him, but he was very
ivery busy with binoculars at the «
| B-Squad game watching the game
|—so they say. Boy! do I like KAs.
| How Jerry Harris lost his girl,

There isn’t any telling.

His actions say he’s given way

The alphabetical ratings are! A-Ex-
cellent; B—Good: C—Fair; D—Poor.

* * *

By HENRY B. BAKER

(Film ratings are based on those
of current magazines and observa-
tions of the columnist. A—Excel-
lent; B—Good; C—Fair; D—Poor.)

“THE BRIDE WORE RED"
Joan Crawford and Franchot
Tone.

This is one of Miss Crawiord’s
best productions, and comes close
to an "A" rating She takes the
part of “Anni.” a singer in a low
cafe who becomes a great lady liv-
ing amid Juxuries and lavish sur-’
roundings for a month. She rea-
| lizes in the end that true love is
‘Tound in a simple life.

*

°

e * * * *
To freshman mister Snelling. —"LIFE BEGINS [IN COL
LEGE"—The Ritz Brothers,

» To everyone's surprise the dish
+ proved extremely popular—in fact
the cook dashed in and recovered

a large piece for himself.
*

John Davis, Fay Martin, and
Gloria Stuart.

The Ritz Brothers_ practically
make this show by themselves, and
[it the rauiag were based on comedy

At the Syracuse University they lone it would certainly deserve an

have—or rather had—a real fra- “A”.e The Brothers are tailors.
:terifity man. In his enthusiasm for Working their way through college.
the life of a “Greek”: he pledged—lhey beiriend an_Jlndian student
and was initiated into two different ‘hat later pirns out to be a million-
organizations. aire who’ more than helps them
Apparently the dual affiliation | With their imances. The climax is
met» with complications, for both ‘eached on the gridiron where their
Alpha Sigma Phi and Sigma Phi. ¢ta¢y football antics wil! keep you
Ipsilon, the victims. found that he: Polling with laughter,

+b #

ihad brought them probation with‘ se ee

the Intertraternity Council. Now C—"Music FOR MADAM” —.
the enthusiast. a tackle om the foot- Nini Martini, and Joan Fon-
‘ball squad. is concentrating his ef- taine.

Critics are of the opinion—that-
j this production is a little weak in
all departments. Martini plays the,
part of a tenor trying to crash the
movies. His efforts get him mixed
up with a band ofjewel thieves.

torts on Whe gridiron again— minus
two> pins.
* *

a *

| They have clever frosh at Indi-

ana University, 5
(Continued on Page Six)’

My
ATTENTION!!

To Well Dressed Men
6% Diseount To’ Ist 5 Men
Buying
Storrs-Schaefer Suits and Overcoats
Monday 18th and Tuesday 19th

WILLIAMS & NICHOLSON

Kappa Snappa House
83 WT

°

Sodas Stationery Candy

Toiletries

Magazines

| WHITE DRUG STORE
.DAVIDSON, N. C.

“Davidson’s Oldest and Best”
~ !
a

