nee Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27, 1937.

The Dope
Bucket

| All
|
|
|

“Sports Afield

Bill Marquess
Sports Editor

By BILL MARQUESS | |
Somebody ain't livin’ right! That's all there is to it. For four con-
secutive Saturdays the ‘Cats have come out on the short end of the Ah WwW e n ty-Kight

score, and each time the other team has been “right.”

As Coach Spear-

man says, “We're hitting ‘em on the wrong days.” 1D t >» A |
That powerful Duke offense functioned almost perfectly n e I ‘ hnua
here on Richardson Field. The V. M. I. Cadets, keyed to a G If a s x
high pitch, tookeadvantage of the absence of five Wildcat regu- yO O ul I nh e y|
lars and threw up a stalwart defense to hold the Felines score-
less. South Carolina, although without the services of their ace | Rewalne Autiesn “Beant Di-!
ball carrier, Dick Little, also played a great defensive game vided Into Three Flights
against the Lafferty less Cats) Then the Praying Colonels of [he annual fall golf tournament
Centre played what was probably their best game this season
last week and kept Lafferty im check, a feat which even the has got under way with approxi-
Dukes were unable to accomplish. mately twenty-eight entries. These |
All Wildcat eyes and hearts are turning to the Furman embroglio, | WT divided into flights according |
home game in nearly a month, It looks like one of those nerve- | '9 scores made ina qualifying |
kers #3 - NOIRE: Git erat The Purple Hurricane has round which all played in order)
good ball club this year, but Wil deats will be out to avenge that | to enter. ; oF pe |
point upset of last season and, barring accidents, should be in top \t the time of the writing of this |
shape. But as Felix, that omniscient member of the feline family, takes article there have been ule) matches |
gander at the situation, he can see nothing but victory for his boys. | '! ted as played in the first}
\ nice, juicy win over Furman would give the doughty “Cat something flight. In the second flight there |
to chew on that would take the bitter taste of those last four setbacks | 1s been only one played. Ed peas |
out of his mouth and put him in the right frame of mind to take some defeated Bill Crooks in this match. |
good, healthy bites out of the Tar Heels on Homecoming Day. Due Tom Daniel beat D. A, McClean, |
iinly to injurtes e Davidson offense has failed to click since the Duke Neal Scott defaulted to Don Cleve-|
game, but if Teeny’s ankle and shoulder respond to treatment as expected land Karl Hudson defeated Her- |
he ought to go to town against the Hurricane, pent Cesta Ase), and Andy Dale]
Here's 4 surprise for you: Red Miller, reserve tackle has been i a et nl ate Sal
running in the backfield in practice and has done remarkably getecteaaint ete citen hie!
well both as a blocker and ball carrier. He may see action back ; , Sa ee eee
‘ee Salueday: Deen Daten is the Jerry Hartis=)
Don't forget that Harvard game that comes up week after next. It ape tL Hay wereH in witch the|
ae apa vi former won. This was a quarter-|
\ 1 he iuge feather in Felix’s cap if the ‘Cats pulled an upset on the ARE jas botlmnenshadaneee
Crimson The Athletic Association is doing a great deal toward putting in dated is ; : i |
Davidson on map by scheduling an inter-sectional game with a big Serene Lpunt |
; : ie . entries and flights are as fol-|
ru : \\ Tirs shee Rau. p |
From the tone of a letter recently received from Carl Carlson, pee a cee Piet:
who was a campus leader and ODK man here last year and is now Vatecubnieoncd Bin Tiandeceon kd
attending Harvard Business School, they seem to think that Ginineen ie Vinson and Georee
Davidson puts out nothing better than a high school team. Carl One Sie Bion inert ii matin leith
says: “I have bets on Davidson with 30 point odds. They all think ( ‘aks. Id Cloyd: leeniclconieeaen
I'm crazy up here. The only real offense Harvard has, though Caubie “Charles Wievedgrelll
is a passing attack, and, believe me, they have one of the best Roy-Cunlinahamenernvac loaned
passers in the game. If Davidson can wAMAD He passes, they'll ig taere Mhirde tigi: acon
have a swell chance, I believe. Luck to you. Danial De Ay ate lbanemraderitcey
Like to land a few bets myself with Davidson and 30 points. With) Don Cleveland, Neal Scott, Jack
the shekles h it to clean up Carl ought to be able to quit school and} Abels, Karl Hudson, Herbert Cod-
retire right at game. The ‘Cats ild give the northern boys the) q mn, Andy Dale, Bob Wyatt,
surprise of their live Jerry Harris, and Mark Lillard.
The hand 1g on the wall seems to indicate that in a few more Be money
years Du ve broken off footballerelations with Davidson. Wake ‘
Forest has already been dropped from the Blue Devil schedule, breaking Soccer Team Takes
up the Big Five Phe Dukes are after bigger game and it would not be On Tough Schedule
at surprising if they withdrew fr he Southern Conference.

Gaiters to a popular notion, however, the breaking of Dav-

idson-Duke relations is not a new idea by any means. Three | Phe Davidson soccer team looks
years ago the Sports Editor of the Duke Chronicle wrote the good this season and has hopes for
following article: “Everyone from dean to student agrees with a good year.
us that Duke has little to gain and everything to lose when our During the practices, Tommy
elevens play Davidson or Wake Forest. It is true that those Harnsberger, Oscar Armstrong,
schools would rather defeat Duke than win every other game on Lee Ogburn, and Joe Kellam are
their schedule. Davidson was soundly beaten by Army, 41-0, and outstanding, Charlie Bixler, who
returned to Carolina to prime for us by holding open the Saturday is now out because of a_ broken
we played Tech, resting and devising ways to upset us. Yet when j leg, is expected to be back in the
we defeated them 20-0 we got no more than a bad injury to our lineup in the next ten days or two
outstanding lineman and a hard game with no recognition.” | weeks. All of the boys are rap-
He went on to say that it was only fair to the members of the Duke} idly getting into shape for their
team for the athletic directors and Coach Wade to drop these two Big | first game with High Point on No-
Five teams from the schedule and arrange games with more formidable | vember ord.
Opponents which would give the Blue Devils something worth work- | The Athletic Association has
ing for. bought new uniforms for the team
We at Davidson must, perforce, admit that we very seldom turn out) and they hope to show their ap-
teams of the caliber of the Wademen, but there are several games on} preciation for them with a victory
our schedule every year that we are just as anxious to win as the one! over the High Point team.
th Duke, contrary to the rather rash statement of our colleague. Dhessaceen tenn Nas. ac most
If Davidson does discontinue her annual affair with Duke, strenuous and extensive ‘schedule
we don’t believe there will be any tears shed in these parts. Since this vear. It is as follows:
Davidson does not subsidize athletics, it is impossible for us to Figh Point at Davidson Nov 3
make a very good showing against large schools who follow Duke at Memorial Stadium, Noy,
this: practice, and it is unjust to the members of the team to 11
expect them to go out every week gibi bigger and more oxs Clemesny uke Davidson oNGri0
perienced men when there is such a scarcity of competent substi- E
tutes to take their places when they are tired and injured. Clemson at Winthrop Bowl, Nov
It is quite conceivable that the 'Cats might have won their last three 0) (exhibition)
games had it not been for that unfortunate contest with Duke in which Clemson at Clemson, Dee. 3.
so many men were injured. With Lafferty and the other injured regu- There are other tentative dates

lars in those games it probably would have been a much different story} that cannot be published this early.
and a season which at best can now be but a very mediocre one and at

worst may be a total flop might have ended with the ‘(

Davidson hopes to play a nine-game

‘ats in the upper] schedule this year.
half of the won and lost column. | Sues Han esienucs
ota = saunas meat
Because the boys at John's | $e
College, Annapolis, Md., have been TasarancavacoAlluikinds |
eating too fast, Miss Georgia 1 r@)
Smith, college dietitian, is arrang- JAMES Vi LORE

ing to have a radio installed in the Davidson, North Carolina

efreshing |
with good things ©

Leads Wildcats

| Wildeats Downed By

Captain Bailey Williams continued his consistent good play in
the Centre game on last Saturday. His brilliant kicking has con-
stantly been keeping the Wildcats out of holes and his great pass-
snagging has netted the team many long gains. He has ably upheld
his All-State honors of last year.

Wildcats Battle Strong

Colonels For Fourth
Consecutive Setback

|

German Leads Centre’s Powerful Attack to Down ’Cats. Den-
nis and Williams Play Seema Game in: Snowstorm

band
historic

An_ inspired of Praying
Colonels from old Centre
College handed Davidson her fourth
licking Saturday, win

Duke, Carolina
Blaze Onward.

consecutive

| | ning 8-0 in a homecoming game
| ; ser | played before 2,000 shivering fans
| Duke university and the Univer- Baeeitelde made cogey by contin
sity of North Carolina continued) yous rain and snow.

| their march toward their meeting Displaying a rugged, well-balanc-
ed defense and a speedy, powerful
attack, the Kentuckians outclassed
the Wildcats department
of play except punting, putting to-
a second period safety and

}to determine the Southern Confer-

| ence championship by smashing out
|

in every

13-0 victories over Colgate and Tu-

llane respectively. Duke's hard-

| gether

charging line had no mercy on the} g touchdown in the third quarter to

| Colgate backs, and broke through)! gain a well-earned victory. The sog-

| to block two punts of which led to, 8y field and impregnable Centre
| touchdowns. Carolina, playing be-| line proved too much for the Wild-
| fore a Homecoming crowd, played | cat attack and it simply didn’t get

the favored Green Wave off their | started. ais
| feet in the first half and then held Centre's safety came in the sec-
to the 13-0 lead through the second. | ond quarter after the ‘Cats had
V. M. L, with a perfect record taken the ball on their own six-

took on the ex-| inch line.

and impressively |

| in conference play,
| member Virginia,

On the next play Laffer-
ty attempted a wide end run but

| polished off the Cavaliers, 26-7. In} was tackled back of his goal by
!anether inter-Virginia game, Vir-| Dick Martin. Pe
ginia Poly smashed Washington & The Praying Colonels rang the
Lee, 19-7. | bell again in @he third period with
Maryland provided a_ big upset | the only touchdown of the day, the
when the Old Liters thrashed | result of a perfectly executed pass/

Syracuse, last week’s conqueror of | from German to Glenn Davis. Ger-

Cornell. man set the stage for the pass by

intercepting Hand’s pass and bring-

North Carolina State added ot ing it down to the Wildcat 29,
other victory to their list when the | T Laff - his first
- | SEY npty. ete 3

Wolfpack tumbled the luckless De- | Sees re ee Ha a
mon Deacons from Wake Forest,| 82° 1 vues ASA Sak
0:0, ‘Berlinski and: Rooney were hampered by his shoulder injury,

. . s ~ ca fe t oe ssar
as usual, the big guns in the State fatted- to—receive—the ADE hte
Heenle “Dauldeqa ohaprasted by ih blocking throughout the first two
fire thigiseason) droppeda ardl| quarters and never had a chance to

flash his usual form, finally having

game to the powerful Centre team,

Burns and Tears Rewoven

Sol INDEPENDENCE BLDG.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

. ners to leave the fray with an injured
rE I A blinding snow-storm held ° x
a > | We lel : A Perey) ankle 3i Javis came: into the
urman eam a 1s e re ‘Cats in check after their star ankle. ; Hg I ea ey ann : 4
“1 ee : “4? Hq: » quarterback IOS an
back, Lafferty, finally got into an- Bare 8 Nae RE Toa ee ane
Af | li aihoe us turned-in a sparkling performance,
é -) Cc astr 5 zame sVver Af (oe ve , ey. .
te p thre: oot ous ga nes However, the ‘Cats came through ; i getting some long punt returns and
away tron the campus, Davidson's the Centre game without any ser- The South Carolina Gamecocks | off-tackle slashes.
injury-hounded Wildcats return to jous injuries and should be in the! were still stunned as a result of Centre's. powerful attack kept
Richardson Field Saturday to meet pest ¢ ; RUM HAU AE ISAK ai arrifi lacki : Ea A eon ;
PENN Geum Patple ee best condition that they have bet their terrific shellacking at an fhe pale nneDavideon territory
: aati Gane in since the Duke game. “Twinkle-| hands of the Clemson Tigers last ARrouencun moctonientiner three
cane im ai Southern onterence toes” Li ‘rty faile ot) T ay a » State Fair. Fur- ;
Hat ogee head Garcrea eaedetenmined at ny, WhO failed to get) Thursday at the State Fair Fur quarters, but in the last quarter
clash 1 ats are dete UBS started against Centre, is expected| man bounced back with a mighty Fred Dennis, who was the spear-
to hit the comeback trail against to be in good shape again and it is| roar from their unexpected defeat headicor ive Davidson ettacieeall
the South Carolina boys and to) fjoped th 46 : aay. at » hands of Cita ‘ re i
reap revenge for the 13-12 licking epee ee: aM AASB and|at the ha oy be Citadel end con day, and Davis brought the ball
| ree f J-1e & presence will furnish the spark that| pletely annahilated the Presbyter- down to the Centre 20 yard. line
handed them in Greenville last year. the ‘Cats have lacked during the! ian Blue Hose, 52-0, while William However, the Wildcats’ passing at
Thi yy . ‘ere +) . e , a as {° hd
While ‘the Wildcats were being) last thre: games. Coach Gene Mé-| and Mary finally got into the win tack was stopped cold by the alert
p. te et pnale i : ‘ ‘ as § a
snowed under at Centre last week, [ever js working his charges unus-| column with a 38-0 win over Amer- Centre secondary and was unable
the Purple Hurric ane hit its stride ually hard this week, and especially ican University. (Gontindedsane Bapenbieht)
for the first time this season to) js he drilling them on offensive
rout completely little Presbyterian,| plays, though he refuses to com- a
52-0. Coach Dizzy Mcleod has de-}| ment on the possible outcome. Cap- |
veloped a powerful team from aptain Bailey Williams has ~beert —
large squad, and in June Scott he’ kicking well all week and his kick-
has ‘one of the most dangerous! ing has been an invaluable find for
backs in the conference. Scott was’ the Dazzlers. |
injured slightly in the Citadel game Altloueh-evervectactorm eceins to \rc er
P 5 ; oA
but will-be in the pink of condi-| fayor the powerful invaders, there Hosier \ wee
tion Saturday. Patrick is also a) js a feeling around the campus that 4 set
4 : 2 . —
brilliant back and ran wild against} the ‘Cats will again hit their stride 7 hi) } :
the Blue Stockings last week. The} this: week. 4 f BOLL, ul Yomiew we >
Purple. Hurricane also boasts two z :
outstanding linesmen in Smoak anc
Maddox, who are perhaps, the stars
ieee INVISIBLE |
of a heavy and aggressive forward RE-WEAVING |
wall.
SERVICE |

TODAY AND THURSDAY

| All Seats|
25c

Anytime

to eat

FOUNTAIN SERVICE
SANDWICHES - LUNCHES
REGULAR DINNERS

e

SOUTHERN
5 & 10c STORE

dining hall to slow the pace wal
waltz music. [eee rere |
\¢
| | Economy Trading
Visit A
KING’S STATIONERY |
SODA & GRILL TOILET ARTICLES |
S ry |
|
y

Popular Brands of

Cigarettes 12c

(Camels, Luckies, Old Golds, YOU PUSH IT

Chesterfields, Raleigh, Ice-cold Coca-
Rate) Cats buttered and
rt an
° For Rent

Free Telephone
eS

M. P. Henderson
Gulf Gas & Oil

Corner 4th & S. Tryon St.

a natural partner of good things to eat. Try it with

the handy six-bottle carton from your dealer.

Buddy Rogers
Betty Grable, Macy Livingston

“THIS WAY PLEASE

Starts Friday
ON OUR STAGE

BOHEMIAN NIGHT REVUE
A Show Full of Sparkling
Entertainment

‘Cola, trom your own refrigerator, is

salted popcorn. It’s easy to get in

Stage

BROADWAY

—

1S

ARCHER Hosiery

spirit's shadow and equally

sheer assaf
as
carefully shaded to match the
spirit of mysterious loveliness with
which Hallowe'en's gowns beguile. Price
Tailored in three proportioned leg

lengths, ARCHER crepe chif-

fons set the fall stocking fashions.

Belk’s Dept. Store

Mooresville, N. C.

}

|

SS ————_—

