WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1937 THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Words Written For
College Song ‘O Davidson’

Composed By E. H. Hamilton
For Use in the Centennial
Program

WRITTEN ON TRAIN

College Journalists Will
Hold Semi-Annual Session

REV. MR. WILLIAMSON °°estyo da

SPEAKER IN VESPERS, warns To BE mape

DIRECT DESCEDANTS OF FOUNDER

Convention To Be In High

Town Tattle

The As-You-Like-It Club met at
the home of Mrs. W. O. Sample-on

Hamilton Also Writer of Song | !hursday evening. Mrs. H. B. Ar- | |Vowles and Robinson Will
In Present Form buckle read a very interesting LAST N || N AY N | ( H] | Represent Davidson
oe paper. | pene art
“O Davidson” famed song of —-O eeoenet | College journalists will con-

Miss Stella Johnston was selected
Miss = Shirley
Parker salutatorian of the Davidson
High School graduating class.

the college has recently been
revised. E. H. Hamilton, who
wrote the words for the song
in its present form, now offers
new words which fit the tune.
Hamilton, who is now a mis-
sionary in China, was recently
requested to write new words
for the famed tune, which in

Takes Text From Fourth) ¥ene for the thirty-fifth semi-
| Chapter of Second Cor., | @!ual convention of the N. C.

Sixth Verse | Collegiate Press Association in
pee | High Point on April 22-24, it
PICTURES CHRIST’S FACE} was announced by James W.

le ——_——_—. : Mason, president of the asso-
| Cites Instances Which Bring | ¢ja{ijon.

| Out Character of Christ Delegates from practically every

college publication in the state are

valedictorian, and

sia
.* .

Mrs. Sarah Garth and her three

children

in Davidson
at the home of her mother, Mrs.
T. W. Lingle.

are visiting

| The Rev. Mr. Williamson,

its present form is not suited —0- Saale : : L expected to attend. Editors and
for Centennial use but only for The Civic Club held a silver tea ne aaae ot Davids: yn College business managers of college news-
the battle song at a football on Tuesday afternoon from four ene l wee Pheological Semun- papers, Magazines and annuals are
game. to five o'clock in the Civie Club, ee 10h Richmond, \ a., used as expected to number 100 and will
Mr. Hamilton recently sent the| Hall. | his text at the regular Vesper] be the principal delegates to at-
words to the college,.in care of the ate ie | services Sunday. night, the} tend.
library, where they are now on Mrs. Fred Hartness gave a tea at! | hel th chapter, sixth verse Of! Host for the convention is W. W.
display. Mr. Hamilton states in] her home on Wednesday afternoon i neon Sens: | Weisner of High Point College and
his letter to Professor Chalmers] in honor of Mirs. WOS. Wilson who | eects ate ho ee in| he has announced that the Sheraton
Davidson that he wrote the words] with her husband have recently Wanined in aie Ne "i eee ; pie et wl UNCLE LL I EL be
while on a long train trip. Mr.| moved to Davidson from Lincoln- liieieeathe Dacia i asl ey ters during the week-end,
Hamilton also told how he and Mr.]'ton. Prof Frank P. Hall (top right), | Feat Peminee deity Moe nA At present Richard Vowles, new-
Shields, both from the class of "17, Pane 87, superintendent of schools in | This ee covey th cs “hi ira ae f Re een ty oF ae Mahia
wrote the piece in its present form. The Twentieth Century Club met G Cc N.C | fects Git ; P. Ms C io acter of) jan, and Hoke Robinson, its busi-
In the year of 1916-17 the col-].on Friday afternoon at the home| aston County, N. C., for 35 years,| Jesus Christ by the expressions on| ness manager, are the .Davidson
lege offered a prize of a tennis rac-| of Mrs. we Stough. Mrs. Ernest | and the Rev. J. K. Hall, '87, for 45) !!'s pecoeens ELENA in_numerous | delegates who expect to attend the
quet to the composers of the best] Beaty gave an interesting review of | years a Presbyterian minister in eee the Bible convention. Other publications men
school song. Mr. Hamilton told| the book “Goethe.” | Belmont, are the sons of the Rev. Wines Paeane athe a a i paca ona Aa 2a oat
Mr. Shields that if he would write —o— J. D. Hall (lower left), one of the} |, i PaintH Carineht : eee idson. ‘ :
the music then he (Hamilton) Mrs. Thane McDonald entertain- | founders of Davidson College. The baleen 3 Babs Talks by W. O. Saunders of
would write the words and they]|ed at tea for Miss Doris McDonald | late Dr. W. T. Hall (lower right), Bible Incidents Elizabeth City, W. B. Bradburg of
would win the prize. They won] at her home on Thursday after- | is a half-brother and a graduate of The Rev. Williamson cited sev (Continued on Page 6)
the racquet, then sold it and di-} noon. Miss McDonald is the sister | Davidson in the class of '54. eral instances in the Bible which
vided the spoils. of Prof. McDonald and is from Ann} | bring out the charaéter of Jesus |
Soon after the song was written] Arbor, Mich. | Christ. He pointed out several diff DUKE TEACHER WILL

the copyrights were stolen by some —o-— | erent expressions on the face of |

Miss Emma Beckman, sister of

DR. EGBERT W. SMITH

“buccaneers” from New York, who Jesu The first expression. cited
tried to keep the song from being} Mrs. G. R. Vowles, returned to her | was that of anger, as shown in TALK 10 STUDENTS
played. home in Morehead, Minn., Thurs- | 10 CONDUCT VESPERS Mark 5:1. This is the only pic-
The words for the new “O Day-| day after having visited in David- | | / | ture of Jesus’ with such an ex- et ie ees
idson” are as follows: son for several weeks. | | = pression of anger. He put forth) Former Davidson Man Will
O Davidson, with pride we see thy —o— H ll F iL R e Dr. Smith, Native North Caro-| ''’ ‘ucstion: “Do we ever catch Lecture on Rhodes
glory of a century, Misses Dorothy Johnston and a amt y to euntite | é linens fay Chad {etae this look on the Master's face, when | Scholarships
Thy Noble sons all have heard thy| Elizabeth Shewmake are — spend- | ° Next Sanday iy we do those things that would make Seay eran w a
clear call to live for light and] ing their spring holidays with their | For Centennial Program aes Christ dook-at us that way?” lt iF reek ahi eee pee
liberty; parents in Davidson. Both girls at- | Dr Eghert-W—Siith,-outstand The second expression was. that vest st se ae es a e vind
“Alexenda Lux ubi orta Libertas”| tend the University of North Caro- J D idson Hall Was O. ling and widely known ledder in| °! love as pictured in Mark, 10:21, Be Lore ei fae 2 ise
eee ee Wu AE a et Ear Rete Pia the Southern Presbyterian Church, when Christ was looking at‘a young M Fe wait ; April 19, Hae a
We too now promise thee with all —o0- of Early Founders of | will conduct the: vesper service on} US" who. came to ask His ad-| OUC8Y cvening, ¢ pril 19, has now
our might: The Book-Lovers’ Club met at| College Rees unay ovens Dr. Smith, | Yi! He stated that Christ would a Eee ae he ey RA
Chorus: the home of Mrs. Charles Hamil- | ieee Ses , roms pe he ho is a personal friend i fany look at each person with a face of | | Peneeso see 1s @ Davidson
O Davidson, we will live now, live| ton on Friday afternoon. Mrs. J.| irect connection — with the | love, if we would only be better alumnus who was appointed to a

for God and Thee,
.. Davidson, we will make the world
a better place to be;
Fight for the right now until the
right has won,
Live for the Honor of Old David-
son.

O Davidson, we do not dread the
century that lies ahead,

Though men are failing, and hearts
are quailing, just as though all
hope has fled;

Thy sons will be all true to thee,

And thru darkness cast their. light,

Davidson, we all will live for God
and right.

HENGEVELD CALLS FOR
STUDENT APPLICATIONS

Must Be in Registrar’s Office
By Saturday, April
Seventeenth

Applications are now being re-
ceived for Student Assistantships,
according to F. W. Hengeveld, Reg-
istrar. These applications should
be made in writing to the regis-
trar’s office not later than Saturday,
April 17th.

Elections will take place in the
early part of May, and it is hoped
that definite. notifications of the
appointments for the session 1937-38
will bé mailed out before the be-

FOR
Sturry Heap
« icks Va-trennol FSS
clears clogging mu-
cus, reduces swollen
membranes, brings
comforting relief.

Views La
VA-TRO-NOL

12),
paper entitled, “Fiction up to Date.
pales

Miss Helen Cumnock, attending
Queens-Chicora College in Char-
lotte, spent the past Week-end with
her parents in Davidson.

—o—

Cumming gave an_ interesting

Miss Johnsie Shelton is now in}

Charlotte Sanitorium taking treat-
ment.
ea 9
Mrs. H. E. Fulcher gave a tea at
her home on Tuesday afternoon
for Miss Emma Beckman,
eae
Miss Agnes Brown, recent addi-
tion to the faculty of Salem Col-
lege, spent the week-end in David-

son at her home.
peta
Mrs. S. B. Crane is visiting her
}son, Mr. C. L. Crane, in Davidson.

aay ee
Last week Mesdames H. B. Ar-
buckle and Oscar Thies gave a

buffet supper for the Gamma Sig-
ma Epsilon Chemical fraternity.
The supper was held at the home
of Mrs, Arbuckle.
eons
The Davidson High School tennis
team was defeated on Saturday
morning by the Mooresville team
by the score of 9 to 0.
—o—
The Davidson High School Or-
chestra gave a musical program at
Sunday School last week.

ginning of the spring examination
period. This refers to all assistant-
ships which includes departmental
assistantships, assistants to the li-

brarian, monitors and absence re-
corders. ¢
Many students are aided by

working as assistants each year.
Usually these men excel in the de-
partment in which they seek the
assistantship.

| founding of Davidson College and
| its Centennial celebration this June
| will be established by the Hall
family, James Davidson Hall,
one of the early founders, has two
sons, Frank P. Hall and the Rev.
J. K. Hall, both of the class of ’87,
who expect to be present at the
hundredth anniversary of the col-
| lege.
| 3orn near Statesville, March 17,
1806, he was a son of sturdy Scotch-
Irish His great-grand-
| father was one of the many Pres-
came North
Ireland to America during the first
half’ of the eighteenth century.
More than sixty of his direct de-

as

ancestry.

byterians who from

| scendants entered the Presbyterian
ministry. Three attained
distinction in being elected moder-
ator of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church in the United
| States: his son, James Hall, D.D.;

his great-great-grandson, William
| Thomas Hall, D.D.; and Judge Al-

}
of these

len G. Hall, of Nashville, Tenn.

| College Career

Young Hall entered the junior
class of the University of North

Carolina in 1826, and two years lat-
er was graduated with second high-
est honors. After teaching two
years in Washington, N. C., he en-
tered Union Theological Seminary,

in Richmond, from which he was |
graduated in 1833. He was ordained |
evangelist by Orange Presbytery
and two years later became pastor
of Thyatira and Franklii® churches
in Rowan County. It was during
pastorate at these churches |
that he, along with others, saw the
need of an, institution of higher |
learning. This vision materialized
into Davidson College. }
Married Life |

Married three times, his first |
wife, a Miss Brandon, lived only |
a short time after the birth of a!
son, William Thomas Hall. It was
this boy who later rose to such
an influential position in the church,

(Continued on Page 6)

his

| limited to high school

| America,

HY OFFICERS

Faculty Members’ Sons Pre-
dominate in Hi-Y Election

New officers were elected for the

Davidson Hi-Y Club at their last
meeting on Monday evening, Ap
ril 12. (The meeting was held in
the home of Mr. F, L. Jackson

The new officers were as follows :

sill Wood was elected president to
Ed = Jackson. Thomas
Withers elected first vice president
succeeding Ed Shewmake; Robert
Church was chosen as second vicé
president. As. secretary, the club
elected Jimmy Fulcher to replace
Kenneth Cole
was elected succeed
3111 Wood.

The new officers will take charge

succeed

Marian
to

Foreman.
treasurer

of their duties at the next meeting

and will serve as officers for the

entire year.

The Hi-Y Club, sponsored by the
Davidson College Y. M. C. A,,
affiliated with the International Hi-
Y movement and its purpose is pri

1s

marily to foster and encourage high
standards of
In order to accomplish this purpose
the club has as its motto and rule
the four-fold platform Clean
Speech, Clean Sports, Clean Schol
arship, and Clean Living.

Christian character.

The membership of the club is
boys and
since its founding some years ago
has done much for the youth of
It has grown from a few
founders into a_ thriving
with thousands of
members in all parts of the coun-
try. So great has been its success

original
organization

that movements are on foot to form
chapters for girls in some schools.

Him—Dearest, I to,
marry
His—But have you seen father?
Him—yYes, many times, but I love

you just the same.

want you

me,

COLONIAL RIDING ACADEMY

JOE CRAIG, Manager
Eighteen Horses a Well-Marked Bridle Trail
RATES: 75c per hour during week
$1.00 per hour on Sundays
Four Miles Beyond Huntersville—on Charlotte Road

CARS
FOR RENT

M. P. 'Henderson

GULF GAS & OIL

PATRONIZE
DAVIDSON’S
5c & 10c STORE

SOUTHERN
5 & 10c Store

DESK LAMPS

f the faculty and student body,

| will also speak at the morning wor-

ship at the Davidson Presbyterian
Church.

| Dr. Smith is a native of North
Carolina, born at Greensboro, and
is a graduate of Davidson “Col-
lege, finishing here in 1882. He
graduated from the Union Theo-
logical Seminary in 1886 and was
immediately ordained into the min-
istry Kight years later Davidson
College conferred on him the de-
gree of Doctor of Divinity.

At the turn of the -century Dr.
Smith was in the’midst of a twelve
year pastorate in Greensboro, He

served as an active pastor for five

more years at Louisville and from

there was called to serve as Secre-

tary of Foreign Missions. He has
held this post for over twenty-five
years—a work which has taken

hint to see the work of our foreign
missions in all parts of the world.

He is thie

read books.

author of five widely

Christians.

“Could

that look on

spised
into the guard room
mies spit in his face, slapped him,

and bowed their knees, and mocked

n the sermon, was that of Jesus’
face on the mountain of Transfig-
uration
sus’

was the picture of # glorious face.

}

for

Rhodes Scholarship from Arkansas

nn ° f 1y 919 . y. ; at P
Vhe third expression was that of | in 1919. oe Adan’ published %
compassion, when Jesus looked at Maw scholarly Ey) Charity
RIMRIATIOR Workshops During the French

he had betrayed him. 2 7
the South Atlantic

Quarterly for October, 1936, These

Revolution,” in

any painter ever portray

Jesus’ face?” Does the |

Master’s face ever show that look charity workshops present very in-
senna AL teresting “parallels to our present
x : unemployment relief.

HOURthE Expression The lecture committee has in-

The fourth expression was a de-
led

Here his ene-

vited Prof. McCloy for the benefit

when of

face, Jesus was who are in-

terested in the Rhodes Scholarships

Davidson students

as possible candidates. Although all
students, faculty and general pub-

him. “Do we ever come to God's | 4;. are cordially invited, the talk
house and pretend to worship him, | yi probably be of immediate in-
while our thoughts are far away?” terest. to rising seniors who are

The last expression, as pictured likely to be candidates for the

scholarship.

The Bible tells that Je-
face did shine as the sun. This

that all might be
aged by the face of Jesus Christ.
that after day

present encour-

Second, day we

The Rev. Mr, Williamson stated; might lift. our eyes to the face of
that these few remarks were made! the Master and become more like
two reasons. First, in the hope! Him.

COLUMBIA
STATIONS

“Kay, what'll
we give ‘em?”

“Music and Rhythm
Hal, everybody

f e sa
loves it!

esterfield

THE FIRST PRODUCT TO HOLD TWO NATIONAL RADIO AWARDS
