‘CAT-TALES

By TONI CASALI

DAVI

DSON

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23, 1938

Davidson will meet her oldest and bitterest rivals, Wake Forest’s
Demon Deacons in the final game of the year tomorrow. From all
indications it will be the best game of the year as several vital facts
depend upon the outcome of the game. A win for either team would
shove the other into the cellar position of the Big Five race. Victory
for either team would mean that they have had a successful season. The
Deacs rate as heavy favorites and Davidson's chance for a win slim-
mer as game time draws near. The ‘Cats will enter the fracas with
several men on the ailing list and it will mark the first time this sea-
son that they have not been able to put their full strength on the
field. Captain Dave Warden and Fred Stair are nursing infected hands,
Ned Iverson is limping with an injured leg, Bill Beaty is having trou-
ble with an old knee injury, and Harry Gasteiger probably won't get
in the game because of an internal injury. Nevertheless the Deacs will
know that they are in a ball game and the ‘Cats will pit every available
trick against the Deacons sophomore power.

Wake Forest’s season has been none too successful to date as
they have won only three games, lost five, and tied one, but they
have licked several elevens to which the 'Cats have lost. The
Deacs, coming back late in the final minutes of the game, spanked
South Carolina 20-19 and a couple of weeks later the Gamecocks
licked Davidson 25-0. V.M.I., who whipped the 'Cats 19-6, could
do no better than a 6-6 tie with the Demons. Then, too, the Deacs
put up some mighty good battle against Duke, Carolina, and Clem-
son, the three best teams in North and South Carolina. Wake
Forest's coaches, even if they haven’t won a majority of their
games, are not by any chance weeping. They have strictly a sopho-
more team that in two years will be giving Duke and Carolina
plenty of trouble.

In their backfield loom potential All-Southerners, This boy Tony
Gallovich has a sixth sense for picking holes in opposing lines and then
darts through like a mack truck. George, Wirtz, who had plenty to do
with that 19-7 licking the Deacs hand Davidson last year, is back
and better than ever. Marshall Edwards handles the line-plunging duties
well and comes back for more with his brilliant line backing. Red
Mayberry, the most-talked-about kicker in the Carolinas, is just as good
as advance dope sets him up to be. Mayberry and Gallovich take turns
about in the running position, one going in when the other comes out.
Jimmy Ringgold is the other starting sophomore in the backfield.

Although the backfield looks strong, Wake Forest's strength lies
in its powerful line. John Jett, a six-feet, five-inch, 220-pound end,
is a block of granite on the defense and turns to a dangerous pass-
snagger on the offensive. Allen Powers and Louis Trunzo, aided
greatly by Tom Tingle and Rupert Pate, give the center of the line
great defensive power. And the thing about this team is that most
of them will be back to haunt Davidson teams. in the future.

Even with such an opponent looming in front @f them, tle ’Cats are
determined to make up for that stinging defeat the Deacs handed them
last year. Since 1908, the first year that the teams met, upsets have
been numerous. Since 1931 .the favored team. has never won! David-
son, by far, has had the best of the argument, winning 14, losing only
six, and* tying four. Davidson the 73-7
in 1917,

Let’s have a look at the statistics in Davidson’s nine games to
date. The ’Cats have run the ball 369 times, gaining 1485 yards and
losing 178 giving them a net yardage of 1317 or a 3.6 average each
rush. In the’ passing department, Davis and Steed have tossed
119 aerials, completed 42 for 703 yards. Rival teams have inter-
cepted 21 of these tosses and Davidson has intercepted seven op-
Posing aerials and run them back 87 yards. Punt returns show that
the 'Cats have run 53 back for 328 yards. In the kicking depart-
ment, Davis and Steed have outclassed all their opponents with an
average of 37.4 on each kick. They have punted 67 times for 2509
yards. The 'Cats have scored 15 touchdowns,
the extra points and have tossed rival backs b
for two safeties.

also ran up largest score,

converted only six of
ehind their goal lines
Those figures show a successful campaign. In
the win and lost column the ’Cats have won four and lost five.
Out of these five losses, however, Duke, Carolina, N. C. State, and
Virginia Military Institute, were to be expected. So you see, after
all, Davidson has had a fairly good season and a win over Wake
Forest tomorrow would make a lot of sour grapes turn’ sweeter!

Be sure and send in your All-State selections to the Charlotte Observer
and Greensboro Daily News.

Fijis Win Ratninton
Frat Ball Nears Finish

' Phi Gams, Kappa Sigs, Phi
| All-Frat Team . Delts Lead Football

ian es Bul Interfraternity Batminton came to
G_Wille eis Pika ja conclusion Monday with the Phi
PEC Pk es es aii pa | Gams: on top of the race. The Sig
Goons. a Kap Sig Eps finished a close second, and the

Boece oREDar Phi Delts came third.
Bulsppe = aKecnSie The Phi Gams and Phi Delts
B=ReMiler 2 = PhiiGes moved into the lead in touch foot-
B=Cioemtis, Sig Ep ball along with the Kappa Sigs by
B—Yarborough ......_ Kap Sig|| Yittue of the win of the Phi Delts
SECOND TEAM over the Kappa Sigs. Each of these
Poca 2 ene teams now have six wins and one

GeO Phi Gams Seteat -. =

STH) aoe Kap Sig The Kappa Sig-Phi Delt tussle
CW Phi Delt || Proved to be the most crucial game
Boner oe S. A. E,]| Of the week, with the Phi Delts win-
Bo shet __. Phi Gam ning by the margin of three first
B—Boyd __ __-_ Phi Delt||d°wns to one even though the
B Thomas _-. S. A. E,|| Score stood 6-6. The Kappa Sigs
Be Apne ee Beta || Scored on the last play of the first
Honorable Mention: Hemphill, half on a pass from Jim Hogg to
Phi Kap; Hunter, Phi Delt; Tom Yarborough, but in the sec-
Stair, Phi Gam; Thomas, K.A.; ond half the Phi Delts came back
Woodward, Phi Kap; Currie, S,||'° "ack up three first downs, and
A. E.; Abells, Pika; T. Cauble, | | °" the last play of the game Andy
S. A. E. (Picked by Sports Staff) Dale jumped high in the air to drag
down one of Bill Boyd’s passes over

the goal.

Other games of the week found
the Phi Gams and the Phi Delts
both licking the S.A.E.’s by the
score of 6-0. A pass from Dick
Shore to Blair Miller scored for
the Phi Gams, while a pass from
Lock Hunter to Andy Dale proved
the winning margin for the Phi
Delts.

Nowadays some of the most pret-
tily varnished heads seem to have
the worst inside fittin’s.

e

He who tells me of my faults is
my teacher; he who teli me of my
virtues does me harm.

a

It’s easy to love justice when it

is meted out to the other fellow.

(Continued on Page Six)

de
Ca

“The Well Dressed Man Wears A Hat”

NATIONAL HAT SHOP

108 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Last Game As
Sh arpe Stars

All-Americans Outplay Heavi-
er Catawba Gridders In
Thrilling Tilt

Several hundred spectators
saw Davidson’s potent Beest-
ers close out their season
Thursday on Richardson Field
by defeating heavy Catawba
B aggregation, 25-7.

It was the third successive win
for the Wildcat Bees, after
losing their opener to the Freshman
had
The
lead quickly and were holding an
18-0 advantage over the Indians at
the end of the first quarter by Vir-
tue of a 9 yd. reverse, a 30 yd.
pass, and a punt blocked at mid-
field by Dan Cagle.

Sharpe Stars

Sharpe made the first two scores
for Davidson and Ellis the third
after taking a lateral from Hicks,
who had run the blocked punt back
35 yds, on the Catawba 3, Pharr
scored the last Wildcat touchdown

who

an otherwise perfect

‘Cats reserves jumped into the

in the second quarter on a short
buck, after Summerall had set the
drive in motion by blocking a kick.
Hunter bucked over for the extra
point. Hershner, Catawba left half,
the last play of the
game on a pass from Simonetti.
Davidson stars included Pharr,
Sharpe, and Hunter, and Capt. Ellis,
Hicks, and Cagle in the line.

scored on

Beesters Win

season.|,

SPORTS

’Cats Meet Deacons
For 25th Time

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Four

Bone Crusher

Score by Periods

ee pee wad b
GataWhba . i. cesccuwss, (0) () 0) 7 7
DavidSonmessaanseuas ky 72 (1) () 25)

Scoring: Touchdowns:
Sharpe (2), Ellis, Pharr.
Extra Point: Hunter (buck).
Catawba: Touchdown: Hershner.
Extra Rott: Surrat (Placement).
Substits ae: Davidson: Balsley,
Vereen, Powell, Gammon, McDaniel,
Plonk, Woodward, Ferguson, Pratt,
Beester Burwell, Carpenter.
a

Davidson Kits
Lick Wofford

Davidson

Davidson's Yearlings won their
fifth game of the season Thurs-
day afternoon in Spartanburg as

they ran rampant over the Wof-
ford Frash, 30-0.
Dave Spencer led the Kittens’

victory march with scoring runs of
sixty and thirty yards. Claude Hack-

Passes Prove
Best Weapon

Statistics for Davidson's complet-
ed schedule date reveals that
passing has been the ’Cats best of-
fensive weapon with the punting
department not far behind.

To date the Davidsons have toss-
ed 119 aerials for a total of 703
yards and an average of .437 made
good. The average yardage per pass
is 5.8. The punting of Davis and
Steed had exceeded 37 yards a try
so far, with one game to go. The

to

two have kicked 67 times for a
total yardage of 2,509 or about
a mile and a half.

Rushing has gained 1317 yards

net with the Davidson backs carry-
ing the mail 369 times for an aver-
age of 3.6 yards.

In the punts, and kick-
offs returned department intercept-

passes,

ney and Jack Simonds scored the
last two markers on a 40 yard}
jaunt through tackle and a 30 yard |
pass from Spencer, respectively.
Big Stan Yoder added two extra
points by conversion and a 25 yard
field goal. Bob Smith converted to
complete the Frosh scoring.

George Marsh and Bill Sprunt
played sixty-minute balJ at the
guards for Davidson and were ably
abetted by the play of Elmer Knoel-
ler, 200 pounder, at tackle. Hack-
ney, Spencer, and Simonds shone
offensively in the backfield for Da-
vidson, with Yoder backing up the
line well and accounting for num-
erous first downs short line
bucks,

With this victory the Frosh clos-
ed their most successfuk season in
a decade here, Losing only to Duke’s
great yearling aggregation, the Kits
bowled over four other outside op-
ponents—Blue Ridge, P.J.C., Win-
gate, and Wofford—besides win-
ning over the Championship Wild-
cat Beesters in their opener,

on

Victor
Decca
Brunswick
Vocalion
Bluebird

35c-75¢ Each

Any Record Not In Stock
Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Phone 8257
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ed passes have yielded the greater
average gain. The Wildcats have
intercepted 7 tosses for 87 yards,
and an average of 12.4 yards a time.
53 kick returns have been run back
for 328 yards, of: 6.2
yards.

an average

To date the Wildcats have scored
an even hundred points in nine
games which is an average of 11.1
points a game. The highest score in

any one game was in the Erskine
game in which the Davidsons made
33 points.

For Catawba Capt. Carroll and

Jacobi were outstanding.
Starting Line-Ups | f

Beesters Catawba B| Bill Bolin, stalwart full back from Knoxville, Tenn., is in his second
Kingec oo fb bRees Ravershire | year of varsity competition on the Wildcat team. Sharing the heavy
Gaglemee.. eRe ce Surrat| duties of line backer-up and blocking back with Bob McClellan, Bill
Ciminersi———-_- Ek. GRe Gatty | packs 169 pounds of dynamite for opposing players. Bill has played con-
Garrone (oH ssaeaokate rs Ellis | sistent ball all season and will see much service in the annual Turkey
BiligetG) acces RGL ~....... Quick} Day classic with the Demon Deacons.
(Navel ttl Rillicsosscuee Priest| =... Se
Jobllay UL, 5 (CL vadof ll ((C)) e e
En cere neeen © Seema SiMOnettl Cat Harriers Run Third
Winters -..+__ BHiRvevsesee2 Jacobi
Sharpe: esses. RHL --_. Hershner
PHRER sesea ses MBs eesese Ferebe

In Southern Conference

Walker and Dave Wood-
led the Wildcat cross-coun-
try varsity to a third place behind
the powerful Carolina and Mary-
land teams in the Southern Con-
Meet. Hitting their stride
more, .the harriers showed
strength by defeating Duke
and Washington and Lee.
Walker finished in fifth position
the five mile
Captain Bill Hendrix of Carolina
ran in record time. Woodward
completed the rain-swept circuit
close behind in ninth place. Bob
Kellogg was sixteenth in the run-
ning, and Reid Patterson and Eld-
ridge Brown tied for 26th and 27th
to complete Davidson's score. Dan
Gilliam and Bob King tied in 32nd
place,

Boo
ward

ference
once
their

in race which

Though hindered by the loss of
Dick Gammon, Bill Telford, Chase
trenizer, and Bill Lemmon during
the season, the varsity finished the
schedule well. Third place the
indicates a superiority

in
conference
over a large number of conference
schoels with cross-country teams.
The number of injuries has been
unusual this year while last year
there were none. The Wildéat run-
ners were particularly glad to tri-
umph over Duke University in the
conference meet, a team which won

earlier in the season by a close
score,
Woodward, Walker, Telford,

King, and Patterson graduate this
year. Kellogg, Gammon, and Brown

Rise And Shine By

@You ought to know The

“THE TAVERN”

*

this time to know that everything’ll be as you like
it for Thanksgiving festivities. So we're just over-
looking all the detailed memos the Chef has been
giving us about menus and such, and trusting you
to leave it to us; we know you, and we believe
we know about what you'll want, and how.
Propose to have it just that way!

‘

@But would you like to try our Main Dining Room,
for a change? The table d’hote dinners cost
little more, the service is more elaborate and a bit
fussier, but lots of people do like it better, 'speci-
ally if they're entertaining guests.
advisement; Thanksgiving Day would be a good
time to get acquainted with it, if the idea hits you,

DINNER - TIME!

Tavern well enough by

We

a

Take it under

of Hotel Charlotte

Cats Meet Deacons
In Thanksgiving Tilt;
Davidson Underdogs

Clash Will Be Twenty-Fifth Between ’Cats and Deacs;
Wake Forest Favored But Davidson Boasts
Most Impressive November Record

é Davidson closes its cutrent
Past Scores season on Thanksgiving *Day
— in Charlotte as they battle the
Davidson Wake Forest Year || favored Wake Forest Deacons
31 4 1908 || at Legion Field in their annual
32 0 1910 || Turkey Day classic. The ’Cats,
13 7 1912 ||} having won only four starts
6 0 1913 |, this year, will go into the fray
7 6 1914 |/as the underdogs. Several of
21 7 1915 || their first-stringers will be held’
73 7 1917 || back with injuries.
21 0 1919 Last year the Davidsons were
27 7 1920 strongly favored to win, but the
6 6 1922 Demon Deacons upset the dope and
0 6 1923 pulled out a 19-7 victory. Favored,
7 Yes 1925 however, this time, the Wake For-
3 3 1926 esters appear to be too strong for
13 13 1927 the ailing Wildcats, but in this
6 25 1928 anmtal Turkey Day classic anything
0 6 1929 is to be expected,
2 13 1930 George Wirtz is back to renew
0 J 1931 the attack he led last year, when
7 0 1932 he sparked his team to a two touch-
20 13 1933 down margin of victory. Support-
13 12 1934 ing him will be Marshall Edwards,
14 7 1935 pile-driving line-plunging, Tony
14 6 1936 Gallovich, the snake-hipped speed
7 19 1937 merchant, and Red Mayberry who
—— —. —_ backs up his long range kicking
343 191 24 toe with accurate passing and long
runs,
will be the returning lettermen, and ie | BORLWaUES ce se paeacons
they should receive strong support Sie John Jett, six foot five end
§ suppor ‘
from the freshmen who ran this Au) POE Ue balances Riaeee cou
fall; ‘Thetecord stands with ws peteg hard charging guard, and
wins and four losses in dual meets, OUEH Bow etey fume) tACk 8

[Continued on Page Six)

THE BEST SELLER

GENUINE

Overeoats
$25.00

ONE MAN’S REASON...
“It looks and feels like a $50 coat.”

5 OTHER REASONS

Warmth Without Weight.
Tested for Wear.

1938 Tailoring Refinements.
Large Assortment of Colors.
Luxurious Full Lining.

Exclusive With

Men’s Shoes
Street Floor

Men’s Shoes

Street Floor

