Page Two

— The Bavidsonian —

Founded By the Class of 1915

1937 1938

Member
Associated Collesiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The .
STANDARD PRINTING COMPAN
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.5@ the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

Colleee Hublishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York. N.Y
Cuicaso - AO." 1 + LOS ANGELES + $44 FRANCISCO

Entered as sevond-clas» matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March Jed. 1879

RIL MARQUESS.......20--..022. 22222 ese eee eee Editor-in-Chiei
CHARTES MOORE _.- ae -Bustness Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

Terrell Porter ....c..eeeee ce eeee eer eeeeeveeeeeed Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy * : Managing Editor
Erle. Austin .- - Managing Editor
Jack Holland Managing Editor
Kar] lfudson anaging Editor
Sam Spencer anaging Editor
Tom: Casali -Sports Editor
Ovid Rell 2. ssociate Editor
o¢ Calvin... ssociate Editor
Vesley Coghill Associate Editor
Perry Sloan -. Associate Editor

wees Movie Editoc

H y Bak
Walt Kuas Staff Photographer

Walt Kunz -

BUSINESS STAFF

-.-Collection Manager

Wesl Coghill
ha Late dvertising Manager

John Latimer - isi

Bill Miller .... Asst. Advertising Manager
Andy Tuener 2. ---Citculation Manager
Terrell] Porter - -.-Circulation Manager
Sam Hetnphill -... .--Asst. Business Manager

Co-Operation...

As the scholastic vear draws rapidity to a
close. our new oliieers have been elected
and east upon a stormy sea.of student gov-
emment. :

At present there is no sea of doubt, no
very tangible horizon, ideals are stil be-
ing dreamed of. realities have hardly begun
to crowd them into the background. All
Students have dreams and pians. Student
leaders with added responstdilities must ac-
quire more dreams and plans as well as exe-
cute them. —\then they cease to look to the
future. when they cease to plan ahead. stu-
dent government will go into a decline. for
ro iiving thing can exist in the past or pres-
ent alone and maintain its standing. [t must
live on the future. ;

During the ecsning year, student officers
will hecome so swamped with endless, seem-
ingly trivial. details that they will forget
and not have. time to plan for what ties be-
vond that ever-shifting horizon. They wilt
lose perspective. They aione cannot carry
both duties -doing and dreaming. They
must be helped and relieved. or their doing
will not be done and their dreaming will be-
come nightmares.

And, 2s Watson Street pointed out last
Week in chapel, it is not always the Pauls,
the ODK men, who perform the greatest
service and so do the most good. but the
Epashrodituses, the followers and doers,
are cogs in the machine that cannot be re-
placed,

ws

, a * *

This Is What Spring Did to the Editor . . .

x eK

WHAT DID IT DO TO YOU?

* x * *

The Ever Present F rosh...

It has been recently suggested by a few
members of the student body that the class
spirit and consequently the school spirit of
the freshmen might be improved by putting
all of them in East and West Dormitories,
separating them from the rest of the stu-
dent body.

x

A neighboring institution is planning to
make a change of this kind next-ycar. When
the move‘was announced the Dean made
Uris statement: “To improve the fellow-
ship, orientation. study conditions, and in
"gcneral to strengthen the ties of the iresh-
man class, the tnove to put all freshmen in
one dormitory was passed." There are, no
doubt, other reasons for making this change
in the minds of the administration of that
school. They hope to make inore cosmo-
politan group -let them grow up together —
allow them to cope with their own prots-
lems to a greater extent than formerly.

An. outstanding feature of the Davidson
campus its its cosmopolitan flavor and we
iirmly believe that if a move tike this were
ever made here, something irreplacable
wouid be lost. Fhe greatest benetit thar an
underclassman gets trom college is the con-
taet with men older. wiser, more experienc-
ed than he. The only way we can learn to
he leaders is to study those who go on be-
tore us and try to uransplant to ourselves
their best. quaiities.

Three Birds--One Stone...

Bob Crosby's orchestra played at four
Duke danees recently ior $2,000. Its book-
ing agent said the orchestra would have
gladly played a whole weck at Duke. State.

_ and Carolina, combined, for $4,000,

And now UNC's Daily Tar Heel is insist -
ing that economy would work with othet
orchestras, The editor of that publication
writes that one could be hired from Satur-
day through Saturday Carolina and State
having weck end danees. and Duke a mid-
weck danec, for example. At the next Set,
the order could be reversed.

Popularity of having the same orchestra
at eaeh school. with its attendant money-
saving. depends on dancers’ psychology. W.
M. Upehureh, Jr.. Duke's orchestra booker.
says students there always respect Caro-
tina's selecuion of dance bands and that Wey
wouldn't mind ai all having one Tight after
the Tar Heels.

Upehureh. who hopes for such a system
some day, argues that disadvantages of-oc-
casional mid weck dances wottid be offset by
a popuiar reduction of dance fees. elimina-
lion of conilicting Carolina-Duke dance
dates. a lowering of Carolina-Dake trietion,
and the possibility of greater prestige (iay-
be week-long national hook ups) by having
a big band in the neighborhood an entire
weck.

Such a.plan sounds plausible. Gf course
there are many rough edges. but perhaps
they could be smoothed off and the idea put
into working order. [ mighs be something
for our ineoming Pan-HKeilenie Council to
work on. Certainly nobody would kick if
the price of set tickets were cut down!

| Around Washington

By MARVIN COX
(Associated Collegiate Press Correspondent) |

Capital college students and residents
combined to make this week one of the hot-
test politically in decades. Citizens of Wash-
ington do not have the right to vote for
their officials, they are governed by ap-
pointees and their laws are passed by Con-
gress. Naturally Chousands of voteless D.
C. residents bitterly resent the fact that
they are disfranchised, So, this weck, they
made an attempt to do something about it.

Saturday a plebiscite was held on the
question of District sufferage. The votes
have no official standing, and the election
was called merely to demonstrate the fact
that D. C. residents really want to vote.

While the papers have been urging the
people to vote in the only election the Dis-
trict has had in years, George Washington
University students meantime held their
first election under a new constitution which
increases the authority of student officers.

The two elections, coming within the
same week, have given the Capital more
politics than it has had in decades. Elec-
tions at George Washington are usually
bitterly contested and this was no exception.
And the torchlight parades and other dem-
onstrations of the voteless D. C. residents
made it appear that they were about to
elect a President of the United States.

* oe 4

An unusual fitld day was held this week
at one of the colleges in the Capital area, the
University of Maryland. Among the events
was a milking contest and wild steer ride.
aind other demonstrations incidental to the
5th annual Vocational Education Field Day
of the Future Farmers of America. Mary-
land is said to be the second oldest agricul-
tural college established on the North Am-
erican continent and this phase of college
work is greatly emphasized there.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

| Campus in Cartoon ——

LAST HURDLE:

FORREST “SPEC’

TOWARK
INTERNATIONAL
HURDLE CHAMPION,

WAS MARRIED

AT THE
FINISH LINE

ON THE
CINDER TRACK
OF THE UNIVER-
SITY OF GEORGIA
STADIUM /

THE INFIRMARY AT REED

COLLEGE, PORTLAND. ORE.
IS NAMED

QUIETT INFIRMARY
IN MEMORY OF A STUDENT,

al

| From Campus to Campus

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Schenectady, N. Y.—Union College students have streamlined their
undergraduate governing systém.

By a vote of the student body, undergraduates have adopted a new
cohstitution that provides for funetional and proportional representa-
tion, petition, referendum. and recall.

_ The new constivution provides for a studex council form of gov-
ernment. in whieh eleven councilmen are to be eleeted by extra-curricular,
organizations supported by student tas. twenty five elected on the
hasis of one for cach forty students, four class presidents and a student
tax committee chairman. Faculty co-ordinator of student activities
will advise but not vote in the council,

°
ae © © # 8 ee

.

Washington, D. C.—The nation’s highest tribunal, the U. S. Su-
preme Court, will soon tell the nation whether. or not football is an
educational activity that comes under the heading of an: essential
governmental function. = -

The State of Georgia and its two state institutions, the University
OF Georgia and Georgia School of Technology, together with four-
teen other state universities, are asking the court to rule against the
federal admissions tax for athletic contests sponsored by state
institutions. — ,

The U. S. Attorney General's office holds that “We hazard the
statement that the members of the Constitutional Convention would
doubt that twenty-two. men playing a game with a ball constitute
an essential government function.” _

The defendants hold that public education is a government func-
tion and that holding athletic contests is an integral party of the

public education program.
+ * ee we et

New York City—A wew experiment in mMuteigal ~overnment re-
search has been insunted here by Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia and
this city’s municipal edueational institutions. :

Under.a new plan announeed last weck, students in the city’s col-
leges will be trained for civil serviee careers by doing undergraduate
research tn the various policy-forming departments of the city govern-
ment—

«“These svudies and surveys will be of a research, rather than an
investigative nature.” the sponsors of the plan announced. “Students of
marked ability and interest will be appointed as research associates on
the staff of che department of investigation to serve during the duration
of their projects as volunteer assistants without compensation, but with
full credit for their work by college authorities.

“The purpose of such studies will be the framing of constructive
recommendations to the various municipal department heads.”

a s * e * * * a
East Lansing, Mich.—Next fall's Michigan State College fresh-
men will arrive on the campus all ready orienated to the early part
of college life—at least they will be if they listen to a new series of
radio programs the college is sponsoring.
The programs, broadcast over WKAS this month, will tell them

all about registration, payment of fees and other formalities neces-

sary for enrollment in the class of ‘42. This is believed to be the first
time radio has been used to instruct freshmen before they arrive

on the campus.
+ * *# 8 & & et

Ithaca, N. Y.—A collegian’s program for righting many of the. ills of
the nation was formulated by Gornell, Dartmouth, and University of
Pennsylvania students in conference here to discuss ways and means of
“Making Democracy Work.”

After considerable discussion, the delegates favored:

Governmental endorsement of labor's right to organize and bargain
collectively and endorsed the National Labor Relations Act. principles.

Economic sanctions against aggressors of democratic nations:

For local governments, the elimination of unnecessary offices, con-
solidation of duties and consolidation of unnecessarily small govern-
mental units;

Control of competition for some industries, and removal of mon-
opolies for others, and governmental regulation of utilities.

The delegates Voted “down extension oT government control .of the
press.

* ¢ ¢+ © & & &

“It’s a good thing graduates get a sheep skin when they leave school
for they will need an extra skin when they get out in the struggle of
real life.” An Alabama Polytechnic Institute student newspaper edi-
torial éolumnist makes an old saw into a cutting remark.

|

| pursuit of. White's gal...

By

WEDNESDAY, MAY U1, 1933

King For A

Day.

CHUBBY KING

with regret— develop- |

Noticed,
Ments in the janitorial situation—

Hujohn, Clint. and Honey canned
after fifteen tur twenty years of
service . 2. It would be overly im-
pertinent for the students to stick
their noses iato somebody else's
business (the college does the hir-!
ing and tiring), but the prevailing |
student opinion is that the three |
janitors got a rough deal, and that
something should be done about -it.
Students rooming upon the halls
which these three served have been.
questioned and no objections to the .
service were found, rather indigna-
tion and rage were the principal

socks fit”

auswers. After an employer keeps
an employee for fifteen years, with
the latter leading the same private
life throughout thesk yeres, it seems
unjust. that suddenly he employer
should take offense at acts which
he has known. have existed through-
out the extremely long period dur-
ing which the employee has render-
ed stttistactory service. Though the
students are not in an authorita-
tive. pasition._sbhey_ certainly are |
qualified to determine the compe-
tency of those who wait upon them,
and their opinion favors the dis-
charged tanitors.

A party at Poss McLean’s farm
with Big Boy Bailey Williams car-
tyitg off all the honors—with his
huge brawny arms he pushed poor
litle Marchant aside and took over
the Lytching. and later tackled
higger game when he ousted Maud-
ling Mathis from his sofa superior-
ity... Buddy Roe Powell receives
set back witli “Take that. cté.”

Press Convention in Chartotte the
past week-end with customary ‘cen-
sored results ... Since I was there,
T omit the details, but others pres-
ent who indulged in the orgy were
Tonissen, fillard, Dorsett, Harkey,
Bell, Reid. Kunz, Vowles, Rybyrn.
and Brewer. Two features of the
convention were the five fodeserib-
ables, the unceasing chase after an
elusive key. 9

Kappa Sigs ‘at Pauley’s . .. Ross.
and Fludson stuck on the beach
at 3 AM, and, very angry... Billy
Rainey entered the front, left White

there, and exited thru the back in
Scott
Cooper cats cigarette ducks. flav-
ored with a bit of salt and pepper

on Ed Glenn reclined immovable
in a stickless cot... Hunk and
Pitt satisfied with the date swap.
At Myrtle with the Pi Kappa Phis
... Why was Ken Lawson so em-
barrassed when he woke up Sat
morning? .. . Billy Masters with
the co-operating date found it nec-
essary to call in a snake—Mister
Cunningham, who gladly filled in
that capacity. SPE party at Kings
Mountain... Kunz really got snap-
ped this time and did a bit of snap-

Pa

ping on his own also — very |

tte
Sat nite... Broadway and Lyon,
in Foot race Sunday - the stake

won the neck encircling prize. KA
very uncommunicative about Mer
little spree, but T umderstand tha:
Rill Rader somewhat apbrehcnsive
about the faring of “Aheir mutual”
girl this time with Joe Bailey:
Miscellaneous Mush OT Why his
Black Dog gone completely anti.
Salem? .Carnegie spent some dark
manents with a Croatan lady 4.
ani ... Tripod to Lunior-Senier
ay Winthrop — “Il wonder it the
. Cooke sends cor.
sage to NC lass but no date when
he arrives... Ed Jackson and 2
Crooks at college prom-— atter
leaving his lady love. Crook, ran
into wild un-tamed beauty
kept him out till four AM 2° Joe
Kellam pleasantly vellow dogeed
by Ken Lawson — do ya get it:
Toby Conyers thrown into the lake
on SPE party with his pejams on
... Abie Conner in another “short
time” job with Miss Mary . . Liip-
fert—ii the whistle blows, she qua.

——_-- ¢—-—_—___
Students’ Aid Being Fought
Additional federal funds for aid

ta college students and other young
people that were recommended in
the President's Fecent recovers-mes-
sage to congress will not be forth.
coming without a battle. Determin.
ed opposition “to additional spend-
ing has developed among member
of congress, and with a number of
administration opponents planning
the strategy. it will require skill-
fut handling on the part of admin-
istration leaders to put through
the program. There is no partic.
ular fight on the funds for youth,
but as a part of the whole spend.
ing program they are being op-
posed. -

Some parts of Uus relief-recovery
drive may be eliminated by con-
gress, This is the consensus of in-
formed opinion, but it seems. likely
that WPA funds, out of hich the
-vouth. funds are allocated, will be
appropriated. However. the group
that has opposed the President on
the Court Fight last year and the
more recent reorganization bill &
whetting its knives-for some ad-
ditional Presidential blood, figur-
atively speaking, of course.

who

—___-_@—__—__.
Casque and Cascet is the name
of the —interfraternity relations
board at the University of New
Hampshire,
* * *

The University of California med-,
ical school is planning a summer
camp for diabetic children.

* * *

The University of Newark, or-
ganized in July, 1934, is believed to.
be the youngest .university in the
United States. . :

It's open season on guest col-
umnists, so in we go to pinch hit
for easy going Walter Rutledge
Miller. carrying with us a supreme
consciousness of our own unworthi-
ness. Take heart, lads, it's only
temporary. No personalities, just
plain ole writin.” he says. So here's
a try.

CHURCH . TIME REVERIE—
Tolling belle calt us from thoughts
of Jack Benny; his silly patter. An
unusual bevy of girls tonight and
the usual craning of necks. The
soft lights of thy ‘setting sun never
seem quite right somehowee, One
earnest falsetta behind sounds out
a little louder than all the rest.
That organ seat looks more uncom-
fortablé than any we ever saw. Va-
cant seats, nodding dead men, oth-
ers more alive perhaps. And after
it’s over—lingering conversations,
rehashing the week-end.

OF ROCK BREAKERS AND
CUTS AND THINGS—High time
some one panned our rock break-
ers whose prodigious labors are
common campus talk. Masters of
the art_of doing litte or nothing
gracetully they are. Perhaps the
WPA could use them as efficiency
experts. Marshall Davidson's no
cut record has been bettered by
far. Word comes that Jack Aber-
nathy hasn't cut for two years now,
which we think sets something of
a goal for the rest of us to shoot
at. Or is life that ‘bad after all?
Two of the good boys seen on hoof
a mile the. other side of our neigh-
boring city the other Morning at

——— -
Don't Take It So Hard -
_7 By E. T. LUPFERT

nine o'clock. Patients are expected
to recover. Mother’s Day telegrams
are triter than anything,
°

ON INSTITUTIONS and SUCH
—Two institutions: Front porch
sitting and the Tavern. On front
porches we hear those three topics
that young men are wont to discus>
~—plus a thousand others. Purely 7
spring-time diversion, its contagion
Spreads go even the best of us. In
the Tavern meet face to face the
forces of Fascism and Bolshevism
No school is without its exponent
there, and fone of them are loath
to argue, however long and heated:
ly, for their views. A true cross
roads, something of a spirit of in-
formality and mellow good fricnd-
ship that exists nowhere else. There
met even CIO and AFL—both came
off unscathed. :

LAST BUT BY NO MEANS
LEAST—Conclusion: The lot of 4
columnist is not an casy one. Peo>—
ple peeking over our shoulder i
the pet phobia—terribly distracting
Then the question of inspiration
a vexing one—an hour without a
gleam amidst all sorts of pert
diversions. If we could only iind
that joke book, we might be abie
to do something about it. Somehow
the mood right now isn’t conductive
to wit, granted we're capable
such things. So when worse come:
to worse we can always sign ot!
With thanks then to those of you
who have read our banter, we-leave,
you, bidding an adieu, and expres
ing a hope that we may come back
sometime.
