Page Two

~ The Davitdsonian ~~

Founded By the Class oft 1915

1937 Member 1938
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collegiale Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Colleglate year
—————— eee

REPRESENTEO TOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING DY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publishers Redreseatative
420 MADISON Ave New Yorn, N.Y

Cmicago.+ Boston - Los ANGELES - SAW Faanctsco
Entered as second ctiteomatter at the Post Oifive at Davulson.
North Carolina, under the avtoof Mareh 3rd.

_-Editor an Chiet
Iusiness Manager

BILL MARQUESS.......- - wees
CHARLES MOORE

-Ameriea Favors Peace. . .

The other day the Sastitute of Public
Opinion stated. that it had acquired statis-
ties proving that 69 per cent of a cross sec-
tion of the American people favor unqzali-
lied neutrality as the wisest course for the
United States to follow. Fven more per
tinent, is the faet that 20 per cent stated
ahat they believed i¢ had been a mistake
for us to enter the last war.

Today while we tum our eyes toward
peace programs which college studeats arc

supporting enthusiastically, we find that a

recent survey of Student opinion on peace
reveals thaf American stadents do not ap-
prove of consumers’ boycott against Japan.
collective security. or participation in a. for-
cign war. Aecording lo the Creightonian,
published ‘by Creighton University, 23 col-
leges in 18 states were contacted for this
survey with a total of 9.858 votes recorded.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, MAY 4, 1938

With all this sunshine, spring air,
and stuff, most of us inclined to lie
around and take things easy, and
Umno exception as this column
evidently shows. With all the nudes
flopping around every afternoon —
the sun. absorbers and softballers—
certain scenes from Thorne Smith's
“The Bishop's Jaegers"—which you
oughta read — become somewhat
real, tho nowhere near to the exact-
ness of Smith due to lack of the
feminine element. However we do
have the sun, and before long we'll
all be ale-goldened Apollos, admir-
ably tinted for a proud strut to
flattering music of female gushes
and titters—“Oht What a Gr-rand

King For A

Day

By CHUBBY KING

son, Bob Gish, Jim Wilson, Bull
Boyd, and Wade Barrow also aid-
ing in the festivities with cries of
The Old Fashioned for Us...

A suggestion is here proffered to
the aspiring young violinist in West
dorm who delivers impromptu af-
ternoon concerts ... [f you're au-
ditioning, we don’t use fiddles in
our band: if you're practicing let's
take that string box somewhere
else, far far away from the dormi-
tories . . . Maybe to Crooks and
Reid’s “Rat Run” where you could
probably do the impossible—climi-
nate the rodents.

The houseparties stact this com-
ing week-end, and ODK should be

On i i q it?" congratulated for providing the
3 he second question, which tan! How DID you get it? ' ,
EDITORIAL STAFF giitor In regard to " hel ° witarity of com- > The orchestra played at GC in|satisfactory medium between the
7 U . cate coceer tee FE , : .

Jack Ancenathy pie Ehtee | vas concerned with the populs dt i ANTHONY DUKE Greensboro the past Sat.—-Walt {faculty and students. The mediua
Jack ‘MNettand Managing taitor pulsory ROTC, the survey showed that au PRINCETON STUDENT . Hictman and Harry Clark cornered | should be continued im some defi-
- Mana punt . «oe ;
ari Judson Managing Editor | overwhelining majority of college students AND UEIP To DART NE again by persevering ladies met in {nite manner —- an authorized con
Bows wane ““Assoniate Editor ates opposed to compulsory military drill in THE DUKE. TOBACCO Winston ... Billie Crooks. lost from mittee composed of faculty and stu
vid - Associate Editor hich exist pri- FORTUNE. HAS AN ‘2 Margo for three days, finally suc-]dent representatives whose only
Joe Calvin. .--. ssociate Editor anv schools otther than those whic . 8 ys. y . ,
Peston a Asvgetate Balter irily for the purpose of military training. ALLOWANCE. OF a CARERS Oe ee eee HAE, KEPT ceeded in having a fifteen minute | function would be to keep: in bal-
Lewry, Maker ~ seat WehiSgraner | MATH part $80 A pay / WW TOUCH WITH EACH OTHER FOR 22 YEARS | | conversation . .., Stu Barnes with|ance the relation between the fac-
Walt Kunz - aan ‘

: y
In reference to a permanent policy for WITH A CONSTANTLY CIRCULATING LETTER

no Mike, so Maydaying it with the
keeping America out of war students down-

gals . . . Horace McCall ted the

ulty and students. Dissatisfaction
on both sides could be eliminated

. : . floor’ activities in his usual high|pactially by such Gscommittee. This
Latimer - + ive security by a F C C a + . : .
Han" Milter — ‘circulation ed the proposal of collect on 6 * y a rom ampus to ampus spirited fashion, as the only Dav-|is not a new suggestion, but still the
Reve Porter “2 Oo iiineee Maneger large majority, pik ony ith the R ~ idson man on the floor which is un-|idea has never been developed.
Sam Hemphill -- . favorable vote. In comparison with the Re-

Champion, ML—A new kind of business library has been formed here] usual. Get it? Lillard and McCulloch off to

Football De-Emphas wed...

The University of the South. better
known to most of us as Sewanee College.
recently took a step in the athletic world
that may soon be foliowed by many small
institutions all over the country.

In a revent address before the Student
Rody. Dr. Alex Guerry, newly elected fice-
ehaneeilor, called jor the abandonment of
one “big-time” sport in favor of a more
comprehensive sports policy tor the entire
group of students. 7

Davidson is in much the same positron
with regard to intercollegiate Toothatt
Sewanee. i
to be in the Southeastern Conference, ,
where it is about 25 mueh at home as a rab-
bit in a dog kennel. I retuses to put, the
emphasis. on football that Ks larger acigh-
bors do, and consequently takes a beating on
the gridiron from them several Saturdays
cach fai. Therefore the Chancellor sounded
a ery for new tennis courts. a goll course.
better intramural facilities. and more play

|

ing tields for more sports in place of the i

expensive football program. :

We are not advocating thai Davidson cut
foothall from its intercollegiate sehedules.
Far from it. Dut the Wildeats may be taced
with such a choice some time in the nest
few decades if football continues to become
a protessional sport. Contrary to the no-
tion that football supports all the other
sports, more and more colleges are finding
every year that the net protit realized trom
the iootball season is very small.

It should be recognized that De Guerry’s
suggestion is not ior eliminating intereoile-
fiate competition. but rather to bring it
within a plane where colleges of cqual
strength may face each other. tt tavors
the development of more sports such as
crew, lacrosse, gymnastics. feneing. tennis,
and goié rather than the major sports. It
i§ an attempt to ofter a broad cnough sports
program that alt may participate for the
tun of the game. It also advocates the de-
velopment of more playing fields, tennis
courts, and intramural facilitzes for use by
all in place of specialized amd expensive
equipment for the use of a few.

I-Will Organization . . .

Remember two years ago when the “Vet-
erans of Future Wars.” who asked for their
bouuses in advance, was founded at Prince-
ton? Tast week one of-our Southern schools
took the limelight when two Emory Univer-
sity students with a zest for bloody brarles-
que organized the “Institute for Inecerna-
tional Ui Will” and began advocating war
right away,

Its object is to organize other chapters
all over the world to help burlesque modern
war and international diplomacy. One of
its first acts was to draw up a telegram for
Adolph Hitler, advising him “to quit stall-
ing and fight Austria." Two wire compan-
ies, not being so beiiigerently inclined. re-
fused to send it. Undaunted, our exponents
of ill-will camoutiaged a bit and drew an-
other drait whick has been reported ac-
cepted by one of the companies. It read,
“We are all behind you and the eight ball.
We recommend Austria for vour

growing
pains.” °

sults of the Survey on Public Opinion. the
percentage of students favoring unqualified
neutrality is low, since the student poll rig-
istered only 39.2 per cent favoring neutral-
ity, while 09 per cent was registered for in
the public opinion survey.

eo
Senior Slants
lf a man is to grow and develop, then
change must be present. Change is desirable
when the nature of the man is cramped in
such a way that it leads to dissatisfaction.

Carnival week in Mooresville and
the school treks over for kicks and
squints — mostly the latter .
Naomi the Snake Charmer (friend
of Broadway) completely captivat-
ed young hearts with weird gyra-
tions and risque remarks—Phillip
Arrowsmith even momentarily. for-
got Miss Woo (he made atmends
Monday nite tho with the night
tide to Greensboro) ... Ken Law-

at the University of Hlinois.

The college of commerce and business administration has already
collected more than 60.000 items for its library of historical and ephemeral
material relating to business. Officials of the department predict that
in 100.years this collection will Yrrow such light on business of the past
as has never been available in any collected form.

€ ¢ ¢ © ¢ #€

Schenectady, N. Y.—An extensive system of “honorary fellow-
ships” is keeping Union College students and faculty members in close
touch with the “outside world.”

. Organized by President Dixon Ryan Fox, the fellows are leaders
in literature, the theater, business, government, finel arts, science and
engineering who make periodic three-day visits to the campus to ad-

dress assemblies and meet informally with_students.

Change that is teanakea man-ahettecunan

That School has the misfortune——must-he-the change that leads to still other

changes toward a new aad tiger goal. Man
can choose his own goals and train his will
on the reaching of the new goal. There_
comes with this change a new found peace
of spirit and in order to find peace such as
this it 15 necessary to have some control as
there is “no liberty without eoatormity to
some rule.” The task of experienee in the
changing of human nature is to correct each
interpretation of the will in the Hight of
previous responses. New goals are set to
oltset the errors of the past experiences.

We come to Davidson College mindful of
its raies and give our tacit acceptance to
them. With this in mind. can we cast aside
these ries even to the point of being dis-
honest just becatise we do not approve of
them: > In the past two issues of (fhe Dav-
idsonian, we have read several articles about
little questions that are dishonest such as
having someone to sit in your church or
chapel seat, or answer roll in the class room
for you, or answer roll call in ROTC for a
friend, or take sormeone else's freshman cap
because vouhaye hid yours taken (granted).

Davidson fs interested in making THE—}-

MAN. A MAN is not dishonest nor unfair

We ate growing into manhood. Tet us be
MEN.

As we look back over our years spent
here, we will forever tegret every deed of
dishonesty that we did while here. Our
experiences at present are not what we as
MEN of Davidson would like to continue, It
is up to those who will be members of the
upper classes next year to see that these
little besetting sins do not take root. It is
our prayer that the incoming class of fresh-
men will never know that those who have
gone ahead of them left such a record. We
Seniors wif not be here to discourage it
but: to those that follow us there awaits a
heavy responsibility. I realize that all of -
the evils are not in the senior class, by any
means, but IT am thinking that when the
responsibility is felt that you will not try.
to tell others how to act unless you can set:
a good example.

Men of Davidson! Be MEN,
—MAIJOR CLARK.

x * &£ & & & ¥¢

“It is Bor too mueh to sav that forces
playing on edueation irom without, forees
over which edueators themselves have little
or no direct control are making it necessary
‘tor educational institutions to redesine heir
goals.” University of Chicago's Prof. New-
ton Edwards points an unwavering iinger
al once cause of what many call today's edu-
cational revolution.

Washington in blaze of blushes and
recurring sighs ... Frampton and
Yates picked-up by Converse girls
and deposited in barred rooms in
Spartanburg. There is some bewil-
derment as to why Charlie Smith
appeared at the tennis courts in
tails Saturday morning looking for
a golf game (I wonder if this's
true).
[ think DU-_quit.

Take It Easy
By -Rut Miller

* a * € * * * :
RECORDS—There were two rec-
ords broken last week. At least
we hope they are correct to date.
The first was a record in class at-
tendance and is held by Marshall
Davidson. It is shown by the books
that he has only one absence this
semester and that is a cut in chapel
and to top it off it is an excused cut.
The other was made last Saturday
when Ned Iverson made his letter
in track, thereby being the first
three letter man in college at the
present time. |] know ‘him.

New_York City —Predicting an expanding future for the study and
“teaching of home economics in U-S. colleges and universities: Mrs.
Kathryn VanAken Burns, president of the American Home Economics
Association. told a group here recently that “educators generally are
placing new emphasis on education for home and family living.”

“For a long time home economists have realized that their area of
interest has mach to contribute to successful living. At last it scems
to have occurred to administrators that almost every one lives in a
home and that within it are established the ideals and ideas that largely
yuide that individual mm lacer life.” she said.

“It seems fairly safe to say that home economics is going to be much
more. important in general cducation in the next ten or fifteen years
than it has is the past.” she predicted.

JOTTINGS ... Somcone told a
joke and Bull Durham said: “You'-
ve got me in. stitctes.”—Someone
‘fhas left four cakes of red soap
down in our shower room. They
smé!l good and lather swell.—The
class in anatomy made several field
trips last week to a spot the other
side of Mooresville for first hand
observation. A-lab iee of forty
cents was required.—Overheard in
Dago class: “Silence” is masculine
in French: there is no such thing
as feminine silence—Ralph John-
son has adopted a rule for credit
haircuts: he leaves a very unsightly
spot somewhere on the head until
the man comes back and pays, then
he takes it off. What a brain.

* 8 + &© © & ¢

Chicago, Ill—Northwestern University and the University of
Chicago are still battling for the most beautiful co-ed honors, and
the former has won the first round.

The battle started way back when some song writer wrote some-
thing about “Northwestern for-her pretty girls; Chicago’s where they
roam,” and the latest skirmish was prompted by this paragraph in a
University of Chicago student magazine:

“There hasn't been a really beautiful woman around here

since Little Egypt reared her skirts on the world’s fair mid-

way in 1893.”

That started a hot argument, and the appointment of a beauty
judging committee—and the committee, working from photographs,
selected Joy Hawley, a Northwestern co-ed as the most beautiful
on the Maroon Midway.

After the announcement was made, a wave of laughter roared

MARRIAGE A LA CARTE —
“Don't turnip your nose at my ap-+
peal. If you carrot all, peas listen
to what I have bean wanting to say.
You're a great Pepper-upper. aly
heart beets faster every time -[
think af you. Your kisses are
tadishing. Oh. water cress. I want
to cabbage you for my own. I make
a good celery and save my kale. I
could even afford to support a little
new-cumber. Lettuce elope while
your parsleyps. — Your -eauliftower
shop while I wake the parsnip. We
will get him tomatoes so we. can
live in happy onion olive our lives.”

“I cantalgpe with you. I'm plum
sorry to put a banana swell orange-
ment like that. but you'll have -to
elemonate me from your plans. We
couldn't be appley married pear be-
cause I love another. Don't look
like a sour grape! I think you're
a peach of a fellow. and I'it always
cherrysh the memory of the good

times we had together. (Pitt Panth-
er),

from the Purple campus clear across Chicago to the Midway—and
the judges hurriedly explained that the photographer was at fault
for putting a Wildcat co-ed’s picture in with the group vieing for
honors at the university that Rockefeller built.

e¢ ££ © &£ &£ & £€

Spring vacations have laways been ‘mighty bothersome for college
officials ever since the earliest days of our oldest institutions. Witness
this edict passed by the Princeton University board way back on Sept. 12,
W759: “Whereas, there: is a peculiar Disposition in the Students to go
home some Days or Weeks beiore the May Vacation and-the President
is Obliged to ispend near half his time for almost a month before to
hear a great Variety of Pleas and pretenses for that End: and often
times hali or more upon a Variety of Pretenses have got Liberty to go
home beiore the time appointed which is attended with many Incon-
veniences: “It is ordered that this Practice be prevented for the time to
come, and that none be allowed to go home at that time unless by Reason
of Sickness or some such extraordinary Occasion, and that no Pretenses
be made that a Horse is sent unless there be also a letter irom the parents
or Guardian to the President Signifying some extraordinary Reason for
it. And «drat such Students Transeribe this Order and send it to their
Parents or Guardians some months before the Vacation'.”

oe & © 2B 8 we

THUMB NAIL SKETCH—Short.
bespectacled. curly headed. This
demon ofathe gridiron, this fearless
divulger of the news, this idol of

the maids when he leads his band,

. A University of Alabama economics teacher recently reported
to one of his classes that the national debt now stands at some
$37,558,369,963—and his statement inspired the school’s chief doodler
and one-man boom to the pencil and paper industry to stay up late
one hight to produce these fancies and figures:

lf the debt were in one-dollar bills and if they were placed end-
to-end, they would encircle the earth at the equator 145 times, or
they could be used to make a bridge to the moon $15 wide. If the
currency was stacked 16 to the 16th of an inch, it would form a pile | SPENSER BROS.
1,181 fee high, higher than the Chrysler building. In area, these bills
would cover 149.6 square miles. | :

CAFE & DINING R

“WHERE FRIENDS MEET TO EAT”

For Frat. Parties - - Capacity 90 People

this champion non-sleeper, walks
and mingles amongst us mortals
every day and we. we accept him
as one of us. Is known in student
store circles as a milk drinker ex-
traordinary. Drags a certain
Greensboro fass.to tost of the
dances. Has recently accepted job
for summer at fashionable resort
on coast of Maryland. A Kappa Sig
as if T need to put anything more
atter [ said he led a band. After
this by-gosh if, he doesn’t put my
vame in his column there ain't much
to him.

PARTING SHOT — Maybe the
Teason ,the cavity feels so large
when you've had a tooth extracted,
is because it is natural for the
tongue to exaggerate.,

——__-_@—______
AKERS HEADS BEAVERS

(Continued trom Page 1)
ciency in the coming year.

The retiring officers of the year
have done a lot to bring the club
back to its former high ‘standing.
These men are: Tom Abbott. pres-
ident: Sam Newell, vice president:
Henry ‘McConnell, secretary -treas-
urer; and Addison Long, chairman
ofthe constitution committee.

—______»____
~—~ BUSINESS CLUB

(Continued from Page 1)

Club on last Wednesday, Mr. J. H.
Bridges, president of the Mer-
chants Association of Charlotte,
was the speaker for the evening.
He discussed the problems of the
college man entering businéss and
his talk was a helpful supplement
of the “Y” vocational lectures.

All Latest ~
HITS

On Your Favorite.

RECORDS

Come in to Hear Them

--. HAMMOND ORGAN
STEINT AY PIANO

ANDREWS
MUSIC CO.

231 N. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

OOM .-

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

