Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 12, 1938

Capable Staff In Charge A

.

4
3

Congratulations

TO
Davidson College
on 1ts
New Infirmary
From

‘Davidson's “Service ‘Drug Store”

College Pharmacy

Phone 93... Your prescriptions called
for and delivered.

S
Co

e7_

Story of Infirmary Staff |

Doctor in Charge Has Degrees From Davidson and Maryland, Has Studied Abroad, and Was
Prominent in Medical Service to U. S. Army During World War; Has Served on

North Carolina Board of Medical Examiners

An efficient staff, composed of Dr. John W. MaéConnell-and Mrs. Sara D. Johnston, will be in charge
of treatment of students and other patients at the new Infirmary

Dr. John W. MacConnell has been in charge of the college health service since 1908, when he was made
a full professor at Davidson. Dr. MacConnell holds B.S. and M.A. degrees from Davidson, and M.D. from
the University of Maryland. He did graduate work at Columbia University in New York and at the Royal
College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, Scotland. He was for a year resident surgeon of the Presbyterian Eye
and Ear Hospital at Baltimore. From 1908 to 1917 Dr. MacConnell was of at Davidson,
teaching elementary and advanced classes in Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. Notable among his student
laboratory assistants during this period are Dr. R. S. Cunningham, now Professor of-Anatomy at University
Rochester) Dr.-E. L. Bishop, head of Steiner Cancer Clinic in Atlanta; and Dr. J. T. Wearn, Dean of the
Mediéal Department of Western Reserve University.

Professor Biology

ot

From 1917 to 1920 Dr AfacConnell served in thé Medical Corps U. S. Army. His first service was on
the Mexican border as Lieutenant in a field hospital. Then he was made Captain and was in charge of ear and }
throat service at Camp Jackson for nearly a year.’ He was then promoted to Major and went overseas to an
active surgical service on the Meuse Rina during the Battles of Argonne.

After the Armistice’ he was made |
Manchuria. Among |
high-lights of his service was the time when he was introduced to Albert, King of Belgium, who thanked |

He saw a good many of his former students among the wounded
Lieutenant-Colonel and came home in charge of 1,300 sick and wounded on the S. S.

him personally for his work among French and Belgian civilians.

Dr. MacConnell was for six years executive ofticer of the North Carolina Board of Medical Exam-

iners, and on the National Federation Board.

Mrs. A. B. Robson was nurse in charge of the Infirmary from 1908 to last year, when she was retired, |
loved and honored by many students under her care.

Mrs. Sara D. Johnston is now the nursing superintendent at the Infirmary, and is well prepared for the
position She is a graduate of Levy's Sanatorium, and has done extra laboratory work and is an able tech- |

when the need arises.

employed

nician. Téxtra nurses will be

oe

CONGRATULATIONS

On Davidson’s Newest Asset

Infirmary

—x—

En

Coal stoker, electric range and refrigerator installed in the

New Davidson Infirmary by
Page-Williamson, Inc.
CONTROLLED TEMPERATURE SPECIALISTS

228 West First Street Charlotte, N. C.

2 Sal Gee, Gf

Our Plant .
and effectively presented the New Infirmary Project to

. . In producing printing that intelligently

is happy in its part in the erec-

an interested public...

tion of Davidson’s Beautiful Infirmary ... We congrat-

ulate Davidson College, its alumni and friends .. . on so

splendid an addition to its equipment,

Standard Printing Co.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

@ PUBLISHERS OF THE DAVIDSONIAN @

sy ys

We Wish to Offer Our

Congratulations

4 j HNST To Davidson College on its
. M. JO ON own
New Infirmary
e TT —The opening of the new firmary marks the beginning o le irtiet car of qw » Firs ste ¢ arger ¢
Staple and Fancy Groceries ‘ FTE Te Oe STIG neues Ne Dt ] \ M Wecnell at Picea SAVHT ae elves eae cas he | irst Step to cs Larger and
by Mrs. Sara LD. Johnston, as infirmary nurse.
Country Produce Better Davidson
7 —
PHONE NO. 20 DAVIDSON, N. C. White 1)
IC
| uq Company
L a 1 |
- Congratulations
Congratulations
Applications for admission to Davidson
; e ;

: College tor 1938-39 are now being received. aay ms ; IY LY by
Since 1874 : g receive Davidson College
Registration so far is running ahead of last

: i —ON YOUR—
7 , year’s record and full quota of new students
tma assure < ( -e q is e | *
pleasure to nn mince that this In a oo Beautiful New
stitution has just gone into another mile- | BSe VERT Was Merc eC by COM een
stone in its successful banking. We COLLEGE INFIRMARY
Wish our many friends at Davidson a | EE ace es 60 CONS Desay ie ke
very prosperous 1938. | VER. EW. HENGE VELD: Resistrar, tor Ree
|
catalogue and application blanks.
|
|
ee | “cc . .
- | Standard” Plumbing Fixtures
| American Radiator Heating
‘ F |
Commercial National Bank |
CHARLOTTE, N. C. | :
R. A. DUNN, Chairman :
I. W. STEWART, President SUPPLIED BY
= N
Hajoca Corporation
Charlotte, N.C.
| L Ale

