CAT-TALES

By TONI CASALI

When Doc Newton, former Davidson football coach, went to N. C
State two years ago, a rivalry between State and Davidson, termed by
sports scribes as a “natural” started. Doc took the first game last year
by a 6-2 score and made it two straight last Saturday night. But David-
son will not be the only team to taste defeat from the hands of the
Wolfpack this year, not by a long shot. Doc presented a fine array
of talent—headeéd by brilliant Artie Rooney, clusive Andy Pavlovsky,
and Ken, Sands in the backfield, and a fine forward wall led by big,
bruising, “Ty” Coon. The Wolves were just too powerful, too: shifty,
for the Wildcats. No team can be ashamed of a defeat’ from the hands
of Doce Newton's forces.

The Wildcats, however, gave a good account of themselves before
the night was over. Although their defense looked rather ragged during

DAVIDSON SPORTS |

WEDNESDAY, SEPT.

Wildcats To
Meet Devils
OnSaturday

Davidson ’Cats to Throw Full
Strength at Dukes

Davidson's Wildcats, with
victory and one be-

28,

one loss

the first half and the offense just couldn't seem to get started, they |;
came back at the beginning of the second half and in SEVEN plays |

versity Saturday afternoon in
rushed over a touchdown. Four of these seven plays were passes, Hk Durham. ;
of them runs.. The climax was a pass, Davis to Stair, who incidentally | Duke opened jits campaign with
made a beautiful catch of the ball and was injured after he had scored. | lan 18-0-victory over W. P. L. Satur-
That spurt of offense proved that the Wildcats had something. Later | (1, Big Bob O'Mara led the
they threatened the Wolf goal again, after a brilliant 31-yard run by} j)..j) offensive with two  touch-
Davis and some nice blocking by the entire team, but the Wolf line, | jowis, while Killianand Davis;
headed by the ever-alert Coon, withstood the attack. lsophs, lent ample assistance. The
DAVIDSON vs. DUKE. 1a lays her BIG game of the year) former did some excellent kicking.
next Saturday Duke. It’s s 1 » Wildcats win from the Blue | Bob Spangler, converted blocking-
Devils the last time being in 1929 by a 13-12 score. In 1931 the teams | back, was valuable as: a line
battled to a scoreless deadlock. Since en the ‘Cats haven't been able | | smasher Their husky line was
to come out on top, but me of the best les put up by the Wildcats sparked by Fred Yorke at. tackle
were against the Dut Ye I in Greensboro, Mr Ace | and Co-Capt. Dan Hill at center
Parker ; ina 13-0 Victory, Last year, | White Davidson's chances of vic-
Teeny L ch Duke team—Hackney, tory over Duke are negligible, her
McAfee, ind t ‘ 1 the best game a Davidson passing attack may make an im-
student < sult thavesetn.  Thi8 ye game will be no exception. The pressive slowing, orensivelynWith
Wildcats will be prim offensive ind defensively—wait and see ltwo good passers and a quartet
Archie Steed, hate eligibility was questioned at the beginning | |; pass-snageing .ends, the ‘Cats
of the season, is now in good standing. His presence will bolster the | ay repeat last yedr's feat of scor=
"Cat attack considerably. He will be ready to step in and aid Bill Davis 5... 4.) the Blue Devils. Teeny Laff-
with his running, passing, and punting chores—giving Davis time for |..,\°. pass to» Ned Iverson fearieed
rest—something that the Wildcats have had to do without during the | 4)... first-time Duke was scored on
past. Bill Bolin and Bob McClellan, along with Bill Beaty, give thet tast year.
backfield plenty of blocking power. This is tHe first year in a long while | Every man on Davidson's roster
that the Wildcat backfield has had a trio of excellent blockers. Me-} o)..:)) fe available for service Sat-
Clellan is the unsung hero, however. In both games to date, he has) ys Pa An nfs Sint
confined his duties to backing up the line and blocking, and has not| and Bill air et coating
carried the-pigskin a-single time. He played the best game of a fine | State clash, ae expected to be “th
career in the Citadel game. Fred Stair rounds out the backfield and | ,},,. lineup.
does his duty well. | It was in this game at Davidson
Head Coach Gene McEver will be giving his Boys Rlenty7-of de> |'i5: vear that Leeny Lafterty rose
fensive drills in preparation for the Duke offense. If Handsome Dave | ,,, ;}j, heights of a brilliant Gar ARE
Warden and his other line-mates are right, Davidson ‘should give the), i). gridiron. For three quar-
Dukes a fit. ters the courageous 160-pounder
SOCCER— A NEW SPORT. A sport that is growing each day in cracked the line for gains time
popularity on the camy 5S er. The team has been somewhat jand again as well. as cofhing up
overlooked, however, during the past. For the past three years they | from his -safety position to Ad
have been seeking it from) the Athletic Councilabiut so far | pike runners with thudding tack-
nothing has been dom n with the'‘lack of funds, inade ii @ Four times it ‘was--Lafferty
quate ¢ tlachk ract Is, and even without the guile | that pulled down tlackney Pre
Ota. Cf e team has ¢ successful seasons. Practice for the Tipton after they were {ooseetn the
coming seas has beg a the coming weeks the squad will open field behind cordons of block-
meet such teams as D i lemson, N. C. State, Furman, and ers. It was an inspiring sight. to
others. If you really want to enjoy an evening, just go out and see this]! cee the injured star as‘he left the
ancient sport bemg | ed. Twenty-six men have reported to Captain game in the third quarter after
and Coach O. V. Armstr rand most of the boys have had experience | haying given his all for a team that
in the game, Let’s get out and back them lwas beaten but not licked.
INTRAMURALS. Davidson has one of the best intra-mural pro- | : o

grams that can be found anywhere in the south, due to the efforts of |
‘Intramural Director Pete Whittle. Interclass football was started Mon-
day with the seniors romping rough shod over the freshmen. The
seniors started their winning plays when they were sophomores and|
have continued to do so each year. Although the intramural program
is popular, there could still be planty of added interest shown. If each
would get as many boys possible out for the teams, and the rest of the

class out cheering them on, it would improve matters considerably, and,’

maybe that winning streak of the seniors could be stopped. They have
been boasting of it long enough.

Davidson Harriers Train

For Fall Cross- -Country

Freshmen Gale. Race Used by
Coaches to Uncover Good
Runners

Kits Prepare

For Schedule

1 lettermen — returning |

r last r’s great r | re ee

- n ee pects a : Sad The Davidson freshman football
| n the offing for the har-| Sane pach Riseticlng. ateadity
nee jtor the past few Weeks, and it is

Mite cue cia aUancHiee Cen nia w rapidly rounding into shape.
ie eNTeeT “Chania: laut veer iat Wildkittens are pointing to
only one man by graduation With " EASE same Wi. Wingate: Jf
‘ine rddanl yeaneeceneriencer te: College, and Linecoach Parks Har-
hind: them, ‘lgse-year"s “Bond team rison and Backfield Coach “Red”
should have an ‘excellent shot at paid Bes Contes shat, they, will
the conference title this year. The LANA ee y He Ae
veterans tround whom the team be built eva a. hi i ys
will be built are: Dave Woodward, souesiaar oahu ahaa lace A aL ads 1
Dick Gammon, Boo Walker, Bob Bn cote -
Kellog, and Bill Telford. Freshmen Raver oF ins erences ogling
numeralmen from last year include Bed Me BERS USSE PUL BETS: 38 58
Al Gteen, Bile Lemmon JoHnicein oe oy Posen and: the
Grier, Eldridge Brown and Norrie er Ne Sr iebes wat been seluuts
ah ed as yet. However Spencer and
The harriers, will meet State, eens palaces S000 Bt te
Duke, North Carolina, Washington reuba ck aneaeel ang Hig State ods
and Lee, University of Virginia, ey eae Sxcebently BS Deeg
and Guilford, afd will participate Suet Ob LUUDRGR snobition
in the annual Southern Conference | MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
run at Chapel Hill. | ®
eae he '| Davidson Students

The freshman cross-country team | ALWAYS WELCOME
began practice today, having wait N
ed for the annual frosh' cake race \
to uncover material for the team. | ‘ e@
Each year Coach Whittle :

ers much

|
|
: }
s discov- }
hidden track talent in the |
|

|

|

|

|

|

freshman ranks by this means. The ’
results of the cake race are not MRS. PHARR’S |
tabulated in this Week’s issue be- DINING ROOM

cause the paper went to press im- Mooresville, N. C.
mediately before the race. AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAA A,
r = ee re ah ial a ana ted Was

FAUL & CRYMES,
@ Sporting Goods

41s SOUTH TRYON STREET

Inc.
e

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

———19

will meet the bruis-
Duke Uni-

hind them,
ing Blue Devils-of

Seniors Win

Over Frosh

The intramural football season
opened Monday afternoons when
the Seniors outclassed a disorgan-
ized treshman team and’won by the
score of 20 to 0

The Seniors started off slowly,
but soon their attack hit its stride
with “Swede” Johnson passing the
| ball. Finally a heave to Bill Mar-
quess connected and he outran sev-
eral freshman backs to score the
first touchdown of the year. The
Frosh attack could not get mov-
ing, and the half ended with the
score 6-0

Again in the second half the
Seniors started on a touchdown
drive that could not be stopped,
and it was climaxed when Mar-
quess reached high into the air for
ne of Charlie Sample's passes and
took: it across, aided by Pittman’s
fine blocking A ‘safety and an-
other touchdown pass, Johnson to
Sample, brought the score to 20-0,
| Yarborough to Sink-was-the main

Frosh threat.

National Shirt Shops

On the Square

Tryon and Trade Sts.

1938

THE: DAVIDSONIAN

WILDCAT: TEAM POINTS FOR
ANNUAL CLASH WITH DUKES

Page Four

Tennessee

Captain Dave ‘Warden and Fred Stair are two sons of Ten-
nessee on the Wildcat team this year that are ably upholding their

~ | Wolfpack Victorious
As Davidson Suffers
Initial Big Five Loss

Pavlovsky Overshadows Rooney and Sands as N. C. State
a Wolfpack Opens Big Five Schedule With Win Over
Wildcats — Stair and Davis Star

By BOB “WILLIAMS
The State Wolfpack issued a roaring challenge to all of its
Southern Conference competition ast Saturday night by
trouncing a valiant bunch of Davidson-Wildeats by the score
of 19 to 7 in the Memorial Stadium in Charlotte. The devas-
tating running of big Andy Pavlovsky paced the attack for the
powerful State team, and Bill Davis-again proved to be the
spearhead of the Davidson attack. oe
Powerful State PR a

Soccer Draws
Twenty-Eight

From the very first whistle the
powerful State attack could not be
denied results, and although -the

‘Cats put up a very stubborn resist-
ance the gaping holes in their line

native state’s tradition for great athletes at Davidson. Warden is were the targets for the hard- Twenty-eight candidates answer-
playing he third yaar of ering football ot varsity tackle aed i running. State backs, During theled. Capt-Manager | Osear Ari
a letterman at halfback, played a courageous game against State, | first half these backs pounded the} strong’s call for the opening of
and scored his team’s lone tally on a pass. center of Davidson to pieces, but] soccer practice last week.
ee oe : the Wildcats came back true to The shin-busters’ schedule this
4 : style in the second half and played year is to be increased probably to
Duke Carolina and St t the Wolfpack to a standstill. twelve games with possible op-
9 . 9 a e State took the opening kickoff] ponents including Carolina, Duke,
} to their 45 yard line, and on the] Clemson, Furman, High Point, Ap-
Subdue Conference Foes next play Payloysky ran over left} palachian State, Catawba, and N.
guard for 15‘yards. Then only seven] C. State. The season will open on
sai EEN plays later Sands hit the center for}or about the middle of October.
Heels Find Deacons Tough, e a touchdown, and Sabolyk con-| Two of the above named oppon-
But Devils and Wolves Have Passes Click verted for the extra point. State}ents will probably be met in the
Fairly Easy Time i continually had the edge in the] Legion Stadium in Charlotte.
Ble five TROHTRE anAneN 46 For Davidson first quarter, alse LL at Alsi VAIELE returning are; O. V.
; , ginning of the second quarter a] Armstrong, : Tommy Harnsberger,
come through last Saturday's en- vass from DiYeso to Traylor scor-| Le k er ey | » . Wils
counters unscathed, although North Carrying the ball 12 times in a : he 13 ia panviiee ane aveR
Carolina’s powerhouse had any-| the N. C. State gane. Bill Davis is RCL G ue ue ace se GUE SHEL) (CH etuy McFadyen,
Hite BREAN GRR ES EOURIRE veer cal oe este ee han ins yard line. A whole ney ponte Marshall eataita felt Chal Vinson,
Wake Forest's sophomores, Vetun been Wolfpack line time after sen ODIs he arp etree uit y Fiulen, Bob Pe Seki tb SH
The Big Five and Southern Con-|time threw him back. He gained the Wildcats. Lozier interceptec Farrior, Ed Watson, and Joe
ferenccachiinen Alene Seafomoarel iy Gane ee ‘ kK. i a a pass from Archie Steed, intend- Wilson.
‘ : rd : ; A et 8, but lost <4 tO} oq for Ned Iverson, and ran it to ( <Ses
Jim "Sweet" Lalanne, achieved pull his net gain to two yards a the Davidson 10; but another in- There's a difference between a
their victory in the second half by} try. His passing average was tercepted pass by Frankie Harrison | breezy man and a bag of wind.
sheer man-power, Phe count was much better however as his flips! over the goal gave the ’Cats the meester / WM id
14-6, Duke walloped Virginia Poly | connected six out .of twelve times | hal! on the 20, and several plays A slip of the tongue 1s more dan-
18-0 in a night game in Greens-|for a total of sixty four yards. |Jater the half ended. gerous than a slip of the foot.
boro with comparative case. Bob| The Davidson tailback bettered his i ee aie iei
O'Mara, big Blue Devil fullback,| Citadel ganie kicking average by meviegt Scnres : A stock of sympathy for, others
scored twice to lead his team’s of-| two yards vas he. punted” eiglit An entirely different Davidson | feelings pays big dividends,
fensive play. Several,Duke séphs| times for 188 yards and a 37-yard | team took, the field the second Nothing is oa yathetic than a
looked promising as reserves. average, if K half, and after receiving the kickoff heevetiy nh Re an ee t
State overpowered Davidson to] Tubby Hand had thé best ground | Bill, Davis threw a pass to Fred ; pes settee
round out the Big Five clashes: gaining average as he hauled the Stair and a 15-yard penalty against
The game drew 13,000 people un-] ball five times at three yards a State for roughness put the ball __.
der the ares at the Legion Mem-] shot, Archie Steed transfer whose |0" the State 20. Two plays later
orial Stadium in Charlotte. The ineligibility was only recently re- Davis hurled a pass to Bob Ben- FOR MEN WHO
Wolfpack’s backfield power was! yoked, lost four yards in the aggre- field to the 11, and after running
impressive as were her linemen in} gate as he ran three times. His | ' the 6 he again’ threw a pass) to APPRECIATE
their blocking. Davidson's passing] passes were 33 per cent accurate. | Sti air who caught it om the 4 and
attack, featuring short bullet pass-| He completed two out of six heaves | carried it over the goal. Davis’ QUALITY
¢s from the arm of Bill Davis,|for 23 yards, He punted twice for..P#ss te Benfield was good for the}
clicked well if briefly in the third]a 35-yard average. | extra point.
period in spite Of the fact that the State had the edge all the way, However, the Wildcat cheers had S| LVE RTEX
Passer Was getting little protection. | as they made 16 firstdowns to ran hardly died down before the Wolf-
he final score was 19-7, the Wild-]| for Davidson. The  ’Cats pre age Was again hammering at BOTANY
cats tallying ona short pass, Davis] downs came mostly*on passes, ¢$-| touchdown’s door, and the fight ELM CLOTH
to Stair, in the third quarter. pecially in the third quarter. of the Wildcat line could not
Although it appears now that —o— match the blocking of State’s line FALL
Duke and Carolina will fight it Sefore seventy we hid our age;!and the power running of her big
out for the Big Five crown, both} after seventy we brag about it. backs. And so after a drive all the
State and Wake Forest loom as Se ae = So way down the field Rooney carried
potential giant-killers as they go The Worst a man can hear about] the ball over the goal from the
into their second season under new | himself will benefit: him most. 3 yard line. Phe score then stood
POaGu ihe had ae a Work fj dull AGE (iy tiose who 19-7 and it looked as if it weuld
Mhcabeenniavatomritmamtlat tire take no pride in it; be changéd again a few minutes
tata leaves iterate ——-- : = later when Pavlovsky ran through
2 ng rab Dyspepsia is a good foundation] the Davidson team to the 2-yard
The dimmest lights have the] fora bad temper. line.
most scandal power.
{
et Eee GN WILDCAT SCHEDULE
125-127 S.. Tryon ‘St; 1938
Billiards Bowling Sept. 17—Citadel at Charleston
Sept. 24-N. C. Staterat Charlotte
Oct. 1—Duke at Durham
.
See Our.
JACKETS Oct. 8—Erskine at DAVIDSON
Oct. 14—South Carolina at Sumter
s 5 Oct. 22—North Carolina at DAVIDSON
Oct. 20—Furman at Greenville (With 2-Trousers $37.50)
Nov. 5—Wofford at DAVIDSON . .
Nov. 12-V. AG <n at DAVIDSON Materials made by the fa-
Gcmaconitnay mous Botany Woolen Mills
rs Nov. 24—Wake Forest at Charlotte it saa TEL ELS
; ec O Pay at least Jo for.
Maroon O Navy Suits tailored by custom tail-
‘ pea EES _ ors with a master hand. Fea-
Blue - Tan Grey tured in smartly fitting
double-breasted drape mod-
Royal Blue ROLLS DEVELO PED els, two and three-button
¥ ice voll kodak film developed, Bact TS teen Prenat s, ; SAW
ak fade Velox atyaagacil Bae ee : a8 stripes
shagibads sii Dada a group stripes.
” preses hangs isk ents MEN’S CLOTHING

MAM YOUR FILMS TO

STREET FLOOR

(@erm)

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Jack Rabbit Co.

SPARTANBURG, S. C.

BELK’S

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

