ideline
idelights

By ANDY DALE

a

Wildcat Sports

Cats Prep For Deacons;
Beesters Beat Lees-McRae

Thurs., Nov. 23, 1939

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Four

Wildkittens

Lead Deacon Offense

Cats Swamp Erskine

Fall Before

HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETES

Last Saturday Davidson playedshost to a number of near-4
by North Carolina and South Carolina football squads.’ As
the custom at other-sehools, boys were shown around
the campus, and were taken to the football game with Erskine.

these

Some of the boys are “ones who: rightfully should .come to
Davidson, because of Some family tie-up, or some other such
circumstance. Others will not evey consider the school. How-

ever, in the past we have lost some athletes who should by
rights have enrolled at Davidson, and who were-befriended by
another school in one another, and induced to go there
Davidson continues her policy of non+subsidization, but
it is not contrary to the rule, or the spirit of the rule, to
be ‘friendly to these prospective students. Some of the
towns represented by- the visiting téams are already. rep-
resented by one or more students on the campus, and it is
probable that most of them are. These men know the local
boys, and know which ones are leaning this way. If they
will take the trouble to look into the matter more closely,
to make a point to speak to these high school seniors about
Davidson, it would help the college tremendously.
No boy who athlete in high school. wants to
attend college where no one has ever taken the slightest
interest in him, or where he feels that he has no personal con-

Way or

>

has been an

tacts. The coaches try to make a boy see that he would like
Davidson, and it him, but it is our belief that a student could
come nearer persuading a man his own age than an older
person could.

We may be wrong, but it is our belief that if Davidson
students, especially in the Carolinas and other neighboring |

states, would take the trouble to look into the
local high school it might repay their efforts. Davidson needs
these athletes who should come here, but who go other places
instead,

Christmas vacation is an exctllent time to dw- such a thing.
Won't you see if t not some boy in your town who is
considering David there is tell hint same thing Of the

its traditions,

college,

its stu
that are a part of this place:

WAKE FOREST LOOMS NEAR
With the

lent body, and all the other things

Erskine game the Cats made their appearance for

the dast time on Richardson field this season. A week from
today they take on Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons in the
season-eloser for both teams. Each team has an off-date this
Saturday in preparation for the Turkey Day game in Char-
Igtte, which will be the last of the Wake Forest-Davidson
traditional battles, at’ le: a while. The Deacons have

shown a powerful team all

season, although they have lacked
an adequate passing attack, which has been the best point in
Davidson's offensive maneuvers. Thanksgiving will pit the
Cats against this favored team, who will be.out for blood in
their last game with Davidson, a game which will end the
“Big Five.” With rest for both teams they should be in top
form=tor’the game, with Wake decidedly favored i all quar-
ters. The Wildcats will be out. for the last time, and again
will-be scheduled to lose, but no one can say that they have
let down anywhere along the line in the face of a tough and

heavy schedule. And Beep ing up in the face of big odds is hard,

especially w hen every man is out there because he wants to be,
and not because someone is paying him to play football.

A big-league team would be fine here—or at any sc¢hodl,
but we lad eather have amateurs than a bunch of pros, who
sell to the fiighest bidder A student body is built around many
things, one of whic 4 is athletics, and as long as each of these
things is kept on a high basis, the general spirit and back-
ground of the college remains high. So let’s stay amateur.

Watts and West Battle
For Interdomitory Lead

fen ie Pheer ae Outlook Good
In Basketball

and to

race last
undefeated.
played this

week with West
Only four games were
past

only

week, but full

a schedule is
planned for the remainder of the The 1939 Wi iideat < quintet, with
season, the first formal workouts begun
~~ ast Monday West defeated East} this week, appear to be headed for
8-10 and thereby strengthened | another successful season. Finish- |
hold on first place. West ing ‘behind | only five conferenc

ed by Keffer and Barker, who. teams last year, squad ‘members are

scored 10 and 6 points resp vectively. | hoping for an even more profit-
East’ was led by Brooks, who. able year.
scored 4 points and played a nice; 7. +
y : ay The | first. regularly © scheduled |
defensive game. é
oe 8 : : : + college encounter for the Wildcats
ast Monday Georgia defeated is with V. M, L’s Flying Squadron
Duke"21-13. § SRD YP FO
cott of Georgia rack- | on December 15, followed on the
ed up 6 points to lead his team | 116th by. Richmond. with: George
in scoring. Vosburgh was able to} | Washington «tw day ae peri
score seven points for the™ lost 3 itt = ; te sre > aa
Duke catise, while Hudson pla Wits eer ae
’ playee | totte quintets will be scheduled lat-

a bang up-defense game.

jer to season the cagers.
Barracks Win |

Four lettermen from. last year’s

is}

matter at their |

and a friendly word dropped here and there will help. |

Last Friday the Barracks nosed
out Duke 15-14. Monger scored 6
points for Duke while Erwin
5 for the Barracks.

In Thursday's game East stop-
ped the high riding. Watts team
25-23, Williamson grabbed the scor-
ing honors as“he collected 9 points
Terrell was able to rack up six
points for the losers.

In the other game which was
played last week, West won a close

game -over Rumple, 19-14. Flynn

led the scoring for West with 10

hit |

;squad, Jimmy Hogg, Hayseed
Captain Jim Cowan, and
Harrison

Thomas,
2 ,
Jenny are>on hand to

form the nucleus of the new squad,

|

Along with these monogram baske- |

Hill toppers

Schumick “Leads ads Hilltoppers
To Three Touchdowns In

| Second Half
|

Blue Ridge Academy's Hill-
toppers, showing a world of
EDOM er in the sécond half, de-]

freshmen
afternoon)
Dav- |

| feated the Davidson
}20%13 last. Thursday
in a thrilling opener of
idson’s football week-end.
Davidson appeared to “be, the
couphag a
power- |
a

winner-in-the first halt,
attack
to push

fine passing with a

ful ground game, across

touchdown in the first and second

|
|
|
|
I The

veriods Hilltoppers-came back

Leading the Wake Forest attack Thanksgiving Day will be John
Polanski (left) and “Red” Mayberry (right). Polanski, a Buffalo,

With Varied Attack

In Final Home Game

Two Complete Teams Are. Used as Cats Score Impressive

: | Victory in Second of Year; Seniors Play Last

Game on Richardson Field

Last Saturday ‘afternoon on
Richardson Field two Wildcat
steams alternated “in marking
up their second victory of the
season, unleashing a powerful
offense to crush a hapless and?
out-manned Terskine team by a
32-6 count.

There was little
ot

Tigers, Devils
Tied Por Lead

Duke’s defending champions and
Clemson’s" Tigers remained=the-on-

doubt as to the
the game, the
The rout

Southern
Conference foes today 1939
football headed into its final lap.

ly undefeated and untied

: as the
Cats

outcome for

struck quickly and often.

R : N. Y., boy, is a powerful fullback and a leading scorer in the South- ae § ; - The Blue Devils, stayed in the
| strong in the second half to register aus Conterende: HellvanithenClembone Tipersueke pedo and bin pers started immediately after the open- running by defeafing-North Caro-
three touchdowns and snatch vic-| formance outshone that of mighty Banks McFadden. Mayberry, ing kickoff. The McEvermen took lina’s. previously unbeaten Tar
| tor y from the fighting Kittens. hailing from Mt. Airy, is a speedster whose strong point is off- immediate advantage of the Seced- He Is. 13-8, Clemson was idle Sat
t . ce : eels, Io, “4 as odl-
Soon atter.the opening of the f tackle slants. Polanski is a sophomore, while Mayberry is playing er’s first miscue, when Hank Bahn- : Nort
} : So een rele tired a bag his last game as a Deacon against the Wildcats. Davidson will see Bee Walters’: fumbl -| urday Duke will engage North
| first quarter, Fredric S hire a ONS | plenty of these lads Thanksgiving Day when they oppose the Demon hea recovered UA Ga) Net male ‘arolina State November 25 in Tate
B past to Maloney, which carried to Deacons in Charlotte in their last game of the season. the kickoff on the 28 yard stripe. final conference tilt
Ki Jue Ridge -15, w. » ‘Fred- 7 eee ; righ ¢ ;
ie Blue Ridge 15, where Fred-|— is 2 = fiero pSetat hus (owe coe wt With Spencer, J. Bolin, and Shan Richmond Undefeated
lect carried the ball. In the second non carrying the ball, combined fs zt —
iod, the Ki hed about th Yod ; Cat The .undefeated Spiders of the
period, the ittens marched abou st pe oO ts with a pass to oder, the ats Lb fabk : Pam Soph kat
i i WwW niversity of Richmond are in
) yards with Lacy plunging over ee er S n O Ca reached the 2 é

from the 3 to complete Davidson's

Then Spencer gal-

third place, having a tie with Vir-

loped around his own right end to ginia Military Institute as the only
scoring for the day. For HHIprestlve whew Win score standing up for the first wig a ee RRCOTd LV aL:
| Blue Ridge Comes Back touchdown, Yoder’s attempt at con- and V. P. I. will ‘hold their annual
Coming-out strong in the second version was wide and the score re- Pa ea are mNEeay ch fy Shea
half, the Blue Ridge Hilltoppers Scoring in every quarter, David- mained 6-0. Ra fone pai
| opened up with a drive from the }’son’s Avaredrd fr eug 2" Deaes Display Erskine Scores pee Pee ra
Kitten 45 yard line which resulted} Rae Bobcats from the ranks of the | Erskine was quick to answer for | Furman’'s Parplé FTavHeane was
in their first 6 points, Schumick | undefeated last Friday by the score Power Atta ek a moment later they completed ART OTOTT to get by State's oft-beat-
RIM EIN VSL echt st iO or Mnmede hos a1 tO) (1 | SERIERE Gf YEE AEBS ete PIRy | en Wolfpack without any difficulty,
ately after the Opening of the final As soon as Spearman's boys re-; On Thanksgiving “day, November | fot ene onlyes POU E Ue uel aie Ge but’ lost 12-7. ‘The most stunning
period, Maloney fumbled a low Blue] ceived the ball, they quickly reel- 30, the football teams represenude fone COMING PASI UCL Lt) £3) Bree cipher however, was registered. by
Ridge punt, and the Hilltoppers re-| ed off two first downs to the Lees} Davidson and Wake Forest colleges N00" ae iene te a - fe William and Mary in beating
covered on the Davidson 5. Tallying | McRae 35, where “Blackdog” Hunt- | yj Rare > final grid! _, own 33 and lobbed a’ pass down | ’ F nao Teeside
on jhe secoilsplay trom scrimmage| er dropped back and tossed a page ae Se citer ieee tal the center to Edwards at midfield. uerueerie aye a
the visitors took the lead 14-13,] over the middle to King, who] two institutions The FiUAlhe haecale The big end, about to. be tackled, leurs:
Late in the last quarter, Fredricks, | caught it on the twenty and ran] ways been’ very keen and is parti- pIDDeG eRe later el He elites oe Games played ~gn~ the second
attempting to pass, fumbled and]|the remaining distance for the culafly so for this last game On ests down the sideline to knot Tianentyi nee will bring together
Blue Ridge recovered on the 5 and] score. After Hendrix had kicked out paper the Baptists will be in the es eeene: ve BOI EARLS SOHOUs | Davidson and Wake Forest at
the Hilltoppers then pushed across] on the Beester 11 yard line, the] favored role, the Presbyterians, as Ree DENBY aise ec ni ae were TS | Charlotte, and Virginia and North
their final score. B-Team put on a sustained drive | usual, being the underdog maine Chad ._,|Carolina at-Chapel Hill in tradition-
which ended with Pharr going over Wake Forest has a record of five pou nang ete atieassecoudeepeliouy al battles of many years ‘standing.
trom the three, wins and three losses, while Da- Gecieur tie avy lucas centue pace ==
Boo ters Drop Che Beesters’ third tally came in] yj as ae six, | Hever to be headed, As the result |
s é vidson has won two and lost six.|~ - ' °
the middle of the third quarter aft-| The Baptists boast a strong of- Orie shoyt ADEN Davicsen {00k Dorm Standings
Two In Week er Vanlandingham had intercepted] fense, featuring the running of | Possession of the ball in Erskine
: a pass from Hendrix on the Bob- Polanski, Mayberry, and Gallovich, territory. They counted quickly on eae
On last“Wednesday the Davidson |“ 40" yard: line. There Blackdog | three potent ball-carriers, Wake’s Bie uty base ain Buatvs No Won Lost
Mewes Hs ee dropped back and fired a ‘pass tol-smooth mrouiteettrctandeercccived Hackney, who sprinted the remains
soccer team was’ defeated by the] 7 ofeyre over the goal) Davidson) widecsnreadsnoclaini’ this eaenwony | 108 20 yards to pay dirt. Two min-|} Weg 4 0
champion High Point College squad} started a drive from their 34 at the John Jett, six foot six ford at utes later the winners magmfac- Ww 3 ‘
3-0, Joe Gammon was the bright|end of the third period and Jonas] ]oujs Teuhzo, all-state guard, Ton tured their second touchdown of the atts
spot. 8h the Cat's team, while a| went over from the 26 on a double} py ndergast, star center, ‘and Rupert | Tatts when Sharpe rifled an || Georgia 2 2
redheaded right wingback starred | reverse. Winters kicked the only) pate, giant tackle, are the stand- acrial Mie) Cowan, who stretched) hig East 2 3
for the Pointers. This wingback] extra point made by the Beesters. lout performers in Wake's forward way 45 yards for the marker. The :
scored all three of the High Point | Following a series of passes with | wall.’ Wake : Forest’s forces will AS half ended with Davidson || Barracks 2 3
goals, and several of the members| Hendrix doing the pitching and.| have almost three weeks to pre- leading 19-6, Rumple 1 3
of the Wildcat squad have said that | Doulin the receiving, the Bobcats} pare for the Davidson battle, as - Cats Strong After Half . Duke 0 4
he was the best player that they |.made their lone score Ondacreversellitiiny were idieelach weele After the intermission the Cats
had ever played against. | with Baer carrying the ball over| Coach McEver is putting his ee ae oe
On. Monday afternoon the Da-| from the eight. They passed for} charges through stiff drills’ this >
vidson Cats took on the Seton Hall | the point after touchdown As the} week in an effort to have them in it
Buccaneers from-South Orange, N.| $ame neared its end, Simonds} top form for this important.tilt,

Texte oBliccaheares defeated the | caught one of Hendrix's punts on
scrappy Wildcats on a muddy field | the Lees’ 40 and reversing his field
went over for the final
} marker

4h Jeester’s
The Buccaneers Beester’s
presented a powerful team that has

conquered most of its Southern op- |

by the score of 3-1.

MAJORING. REQUIRE-
MENTS

i [Continued from Page One)
and @ minor for a student majoring in

ponents on this trip. Sam Spencer |

scored the Wildcats lone tally ‘after
a struggle near the Buccaneer’s
goal. Dick Gammon, Pearce,
McFadyen starred in the Davidson

| forward line; frequently advancing

| the respective departments.
The committee is composed of Dr

| the ball deep into the northern | C.K. Brown, Prof. W. W. Wood,
e| te am's territory. Joe Gammon suf- | Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., Dr. W. P.
“tered painftrltkneenjury-and-had., Cummings F. W. Johnston, and

to be removed from the game dur- Prof. W..-G.’ McGavock. This

| standing curriculum committee has

| as its purpose to consider changes
in curriculum and proposed changes
in the requirements for a major in
| the different departments.

ing the-third quarter,
The

schedule

remaining games

include the powerful
Clemson team at Clemson on Wed- |
the Duke Blue Devils in|
Greensboro, and:the Clemson Tigers |
at Winthrop College Rock Hill, |
S. C. Each game should be a stiff
one for the Wildcats.

on

nesday,

Ae (EE Se
Ernest Ellison, Inc.

“JUST INSURANCE”

115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N, C.

teers are Melvin Means, Diek Shore,
Winston Taylor, and George Fick-
len from the varsity; McLeod, Yar-

acy’ “tee inet
EUMENEAN SOCIETY

[Continued from Page Three] ’
certain girls’ schools to a party

the near future.

Open To Students
President Oglesby stated that he
wished to issue to members*of the
Davidson student -body an invita-
to join the society. He said
everyone to the
which

ZIPPER LINED

tion
that
meetings

is invited

are held every
night in Eu Hall.

other Tuesday

yy

NORGE GAS RANGE

e@ Finely Tailored
RULANE GAS SERVICE

GROCERIES @ Two Coats ‘in
HARDWARE One

M. H. GOODRUM ® Zip the lining out
COMPANY

for topcoat weather

e
NEW SHIPMENT JUST ARRIVED
OF THOSE POPULAR

COATS

sie 1089 Wool seer

borough, and Lucas from the Frosh

five, and also Turner and Miller.
Seven gridders will report later.

Coach Shephard declined to com-

printing

points, while Poole .made 7 for| ment on the outcome of what he
Rumple. termed a tough season.
Come Out To
JIM’S TAVERN
.ALL THE LATEST RECORDINGS ON OUR NICKLEDEON

Statesville Highway

Delicious Sandwiches and Cold Drinks

is Our Business

A COMPLETE ate service as near
as your Telephone.

For a representative

3-5727

Printers of The Davidsonian

Garland Court

Davidson, N. C.

TA TT

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

ESTABLISHED 1907

CHARLOTTE, N. Cc.

ie

WA

VAI

Dayidson, N. C. @ Zip the lining
in for overcoat
weather.

® Comfortable and
stylish. You’)!
like it.

USE OUR 90
DAY PAY PLAN

118 South

MARION DAVIS CO.

e

|

Tryon St.

