Page Two

e°

~ THE DAVIDSONIAN . Thurs.,, Nov. 24, 1940
. ’ _| detin board in Chavhers or in. front. of oo = pe
Che Mabidsontan | Watts, or appear in this paper. Many other Letters to the_Editor__ 1G
- | schools work on that system entirely. Be : DAY
? ty ne fF 1Oys nese :
Founded, liy the Class of 1015 cause we have never bothered to read the ON CHAPEL To. be conerete, we sueqest hat
Newhpel lulletin boards docsnt mean that we: cant. . | ».,- Andy Dir, Linute continue his three ad, DIARY
Associcled.Colicsiale  Pkess . The three unscheduted days could also be ~ sosdong ts as cfots ean tesmdresacs a weeks angmented by -one
‘ | ousxed to good advantage for other events. imember. the campus hae heen talk -. spacer trom the taculty, student BY
7 or i a; 5 t oS hea that ts needed., Long student body ging abour the wenknesses in the body: and the. ~inth leader neces;
re “ we ROS ~ pre scan cHapel svetem. and with one sary could be chosen trom some |
DLL) (AL) LG. SED. Udi FA. dL “theetings coulil be called at that time. \nd lithe: cayee” Tor their complaints... nvarby comimunns amie such as: BILL LEMMON
Published Weekiy “For a Better Davidson certainly there could be no Objection tO we trier that. the Adimmistration Ds lack Retlkead. Dr. F.C. Mor.
nep tally for the ball team if held.on a day {is aware of the services’ incompe: gan. and Te. Julian Miller Even though. most or the boys un at WC but appeared very aw
Pris ced Py The “when ‘there had been tiv: religious exereises tence, und consequently s looking - Second. the services .came too! yet TNOURTL, : shone “ y oar

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Chariotte. North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Colleyiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING OF

National Advertising Service, Inc.
Colleee Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave. New YORK. N.Y

n » Ln ANGELES © 0%

Foasciseo

Che ye

Corday uct

—onDY DALLT “EDITORUINCCHIER DS IN CTR TS *thesakaey and 7 realize. Gat ee va cen ee wee wore ah P NReR Se
JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER ld Trasition Us passing. we musi Fe ee icnradvinneine “he Chase oi Len iat Hit erie ehieImweouta
EDITORIAL STAFF™ “al chanees must incy tably COME IN EFETY= as Sn this campus, olen : bemtee its religions value
te Lin renee — ert when seme ota penal wecard tb Moi
Tort Cagis - tae ratwrl hse lo come? Very serious con _ = = f
avn weet —— a OL aTS Lamu: vbegie a hase. beaslalinic un —— eT he we ne
“ . toadiate.s  ¢ Sere Se ast heats on ir ens
Say
_Munaaing Fas By SULIEN M'CALL and LOUIS HITE.
ManGene Facts Le
. pda Play Safe \ rocies Cintrcditees i teem oar ethos bas canal late and = to
_ trig om ts resvest relGee “Dewan Gin Miller, who
—— ~ ridr sear Cuene Spoke im Chapei the Koad a Piece The combiitie pew one. in the same style. that!
BUSINESS STAFF co 136 week. pernaps some avondered at ‘tinst tn relies ey MeN nae tus fountise” disk 70 popu
Tom Wonk gles . estictly. to.retint his talk was fc.ings. Ay NU Urellbers, qin lal. G 1 rake tik sid
Dick Keily hes aa c the time he tintslied.df wever, we all realis- anth Freddie “Fick un prams tt all: Girry Gordon, 10 ATake Toth sides
Edo Seer adds up tA anether fine ween od a rreorilit a a “collevtate special’

Tarren
Thante

Chavel Change?

For some unm there hat ‘been cor
eralde talk among our students concer:
ing the possihility. ot a changedn the pres
ent system of chapel serviees ot Davidson
gl is week a leiter pnblished an another _

connor tins page taises the question onee_
again and propuses a wore on less detinite
plan by whieh the writer believes the stn:

- daan-hody would receive more pront irom
the chapel servizes.’.

While we do not agree wholly with ain
parts of this communication, we do think
that something shonid Le done about on7
chapel Seryiees, The plan ottered by this
mau May not. be pertect in any or. ali: of. its
parts, but it is a start.

last year .the YVICA pot uo a drive to
make chapel programs more. intercting
and more worshiprul, Their aim was to lis-
the :platte on which these exercises were,
condueted. thercby ercating a better retti>

* pious atmosphere on the camons. Te 2 - .1
lial extent they have sitecoede, and i: is
nor the. fault of the YMC. that the chavel

- programs have not become better. The i \""
has worked hard. and has made a sineere_,

—ciiort to better this phase of-cellege lite —

tn our opinion imis not the fale of the
student bofly. -cither On the whole, an.

ant
te Nip

au reese

ro Frevee 2 wt

ast

a general rule. the majonty of sindents try —. —.f-other age grouos dre dechning slightly

ie

len aligaiively -t+ the laiks,-sing the
—hbtuns: 4nd proat by the service, -

Nut on a college eampus, with its many
_acivities, both scholastic and extraeurrien:
lar, alter a man Has been present at just
——~uwtmany of the same lind.of ‘services; day
jn and day our, he loses interest, and try as
« he may. they don’t mean much. for tootlong
- we have beai ado the bush. looked at it
“from the ideal point of views and gotien
litle trom our chapel services. To the ina-
jority’ of our stadent body daily chapel.
comes only as a brief time for relaxation
".. between classes. a ‘chance to study for a
coming “writ.” ora tme to cateh a short
nap. ‘ -
Some people hold that it is wrong to
choose the lesser oi two evils. We do not .,

agree. We do think that it would be best it. —

~ we could have daily chapcis which meant
something in our daily lives. But they don’t!

From whatever viewpoint one takes. the
Jaci remains daily chapel: means little or
nothing to the average student. That 15 the
truth. and we must face it. ——

As "AI. B.” states ia bis letier, the threc-

‘devotional-a-week, system has been used _|_O.D.K., has

—--successfully at other sehools. [s it not worth

“a try flere 7 Anything wonld be better “tHian-=

— the present system.

No One can predict with certainty, but it 7
seems thai the thrce-a-wetk system might
work here. And weil never know until we—
try it out. The present six-a-week system
goes over witha few men. But would it.not
be-better to have the mumber* of services
cut in half if dhe lesser number would be
for the betterment of the whole ?-

.__—_The preceding deals entirely with the de-
votional part of chapel, and offers no plan
whatsoever for. student body business mect-
ings or announcements. However, these fac-
tors can be easily worked out, The majority
of announcements can be posted on the bul-

on re Ree egraee meme

{

}

i

— —}-¢nty-tive.

in the auditorium immediately betore. lack
these. pep inectings. has. contributed
pardy te our “lust spirit.”
\il arguments seem to be in tavor of a
charzet if we took at the ching irom a real
- wt an idealistic viewpoint, The
ume has ¢ome to face Ithe facts: Phe pres:
«ti pian is not accomplishing its purpose.
Verhaps w change will heip.
Mhoingh™t may be hard 1.7 some to acimit

sot

OWR tecaley,

ca that three members cat cur
Cariuad 1 stinients, hac met

with autgmohie accents only the day be
Lote, N Tew ot Alyse nu doubt. leit Chagei
wal Chat same old tecling, 01 90 much ume
TS seedy Dut a grect many thinking sti
acut> wefer far more coneerned.
Mayhe the tiewspapers are mght| maybe
Vad Sudden Death” didnt spring: from a
{istorted imagination ari

nore than tits stylistic qalities: and maybe

LY Ga.

t
res

Te

of

metead ot people whom we have never met «

che pe the Diadie-jmomom :

—g-valuable icr ——,

this highway -inenace acwifatty concerns ts te lew din

around for possibilitics of improve- orem We

ment: Withthi mooning, we throw
a—few more osif2eestions thie the
Mring

.

First. the services are often oitde

tabsurd becaune ot leaders who have
gahsobuceit te qualiucations
speakers to the stadem
It would seem that only tive
sna tedlows in the entire stndent
hy that toc the

ae
votronal
berths
have abttities

‘oat ose deb us Lear them as ote:

thes sag,

campts comuhums. And

they sliould know: they have to at-

1
there is a tule dope_worts tak.nu

: - 0 ot this week. csuch as the
tnd them. therefore. why nor! > ck orf , sur
: A junior mers. of the teotball team
‘adept ao system: already in success! 2 : .
- . _ ventehing Fates immediately upon
Inf aperation at many colloges where *~

the chapel service ts held cach day
te week. with the students
Tronor Boundart ‘trend wnt cree
ot the
Ment,

six sprvices. Ty this arrance-
the tradition. af daily
tionals is not brokear we can ad-
lust tue attendance ty suit our Hea

devon i

irrival in Dutham. Htge MeCuil pol
ashe on bis. undertaking, white

Haster Freeze and Dave Voshury

were out calling.on uke hat cheek |

wvirls at the night spots - Gor
George Grantham

btwined an-the elutebes of a. cross:

BCOUS aot che

were on the campus this week-end,

nayed at Prank Niven for huldeg
lthe conversation on the
[tang. .

game
the lover of the sook
sold himecli on a girl in Ra-
leigh alter seeing Uhe Dook game

Hoabhy,
class,

and then he zoomed on un ta
Sweet Priar where le found an-
rother for Sun nightow. . Gtenstein

| Thomas putied asbie deal down into
'Plorida and has not reported buch

an onty read ato hew OT Ts iideed
r pause to Chink that we might fe one |
“1 oveT two thousand killed in North Caro,
lina ‘this vear. flit it's time we thoug’
and thonght hard, about isomething *

ewe

:

endangers us’ every, day. and cannot. be fe. 1 vanghne—atuse.

retled by biiters,

- \nd supposing we do think, what then:
~hall werstt Lack. ssuigly complacent. con
ndent Uhat we wove be aitecced by any-

—thag Ter ancrainnrtie wreck or Shall we -"

act, and act Gen ..oday we have a real

chance 1-. uo something conerete to stop
this menaee.. instcad ai Iching the State

worry about -how sate our highwaystare;
~ The State is worrving. ton, as is evidenced

‘vy the aeticn they're taking fo. reduee tat
lic dangets +. minimum. No doubt many
people wouide be surprised to hear that 1
ig the death rate amung young people that
is inereasing year by year. while the rate~ 7
on might berstartied to Kndw that more
people are Willed ahd iniured every vear

af Mecklenburg County than any other
Cuuacyein the State,

group are cuusing more and more accidents
every year that the sateiy Division of the
State [lighway Commission is sporsoring a
program in all the high sehools and colleges.
Fhe purpose is twofold. to acquaint peopie
with the seriousness of the problem, and to
ascertain. the causes of accidents. There
isn’t a great deal we can do as citizens to
aid the survey of causal faetors, but there |
is a tretnendous amount we can do in the
other direction.

Pyblie. opinion is the country’s greatest
Weapon against reekless drivers, and we can
all do something even it it’s only to drive
saicly personally. Suppose everyone took
it upon himseli to drive cautiously and
courteously. Theh just imagine Aow many
less famities would be grieving for their
son, who took ore curvetoo many at sev-_

Pond” and "Nighr and Day,
ltirst item is good swing and aood
Rarnet. with highiv Vistenable
rin ag the end, but ( harlic deserves

me largest scalhon ot the year tur
thing like Cole
Pherae. CNight aud Day’ thet way
“he docy here Thera are envy of
wuimbers aroun? ter Barnet’s hay
sus aud band te aldaek owrthiout:
Isahieeting a & og dike th tea “uel:
mutilation
Pile Te ives” terthose wire
POR GO) Ssanrise Serenade’ bert ts
abother ote om the same cpattern,

“thatthe to ceith Carlemeeho wrote

Sv tollow sip owhich-is every bit

ae

Uhestreant paces bere than on PEsOUs «Sy cet riar.

sides since. he originated this oui
nt wath its strings and woodwinds
im adie cn to reenlation dance band

bras-es ard reeds. Goth aumbers
var tll, and vichly colored. with
Shaw's chimeet as always, stand-
rae ony

Many comments hate been re-
ceived as StoT Ui fine cinitsie Jur
Wished artim dance pet.
by Freeldte “Johison. This colgmn
hard cxpressed tts views as to the
oro Tit thade in Freddy's band
eos ovratified to tind so mary
on eemmpleie accurd after having |

heard liam,

F ilm Report | Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

i

Thursday and Friday |
November 14 and 15

&

_Lie_sultey_Suuth- Seas_tor_tite back = !
Dietrich |

around tor sultry Marlene

i ore

“Arise, My Love™-—-Claudett Col-

ct and Ray Milland.
This piclare that

he
tilled

soit hs

To rset Coivdyositinianegan *

Lins Garversake® “Seven Sinners

[Strong tiga weaken whenever she

pMlinks in sigat. particularly Tohn

with atuon trom the beg: ‘onine to! Wane. but she's a gal with a heart
itis ist because people in the 35-24 age <[the end. Krom the time the Amer- iol geld and gives chiny back to

jiean ‘newspaper woman Tesemes the
ySpannh tier from war prison,”
Jat is Tiled with fast aetion and ex-
leuement. In between
Timonients voull find a. charming
(love story in a thrilling setting

7
\
|

| laughin.

This is anotiter one of the better
“Westerners” and is am accurave
land thrilling story of the tight tor

Saturday, November_16

.o4

“Diamond Frontier” ~Victoc..

s|the rich dtamond fields of the West.

{Fast action and 2 iove story ntake
tteoone that ts anll-packed with
pleaty ot action and lawl,

Monday and Tuesday
November 18 and 19

* #8 €

rich, Jota Wasne Li itly Gi

A taeulty coramittee. in eoniunetion sith
vohinteered to help with the
problem at Davidson. lrofessor Fuleher is

atctheshead-ef this grou

p, and three cam!

and Mischa Auer.
Devious doings in the cens of

the ‘Serious |

“Seven Sinners” — Marlene Diet-|

pthe Navavand his sweetheart.

Wednesday, November 20
~The the show
fol vet released bigs movie for tnis
wate sorry.

manager OL

Thursday and Friday
November 21 and 22

es 8 Foe

Argentine Way’ *_Retty

Grable. Don Ameche ‘and Charlotte,

+ Greensvood.

VAIS is a mvovie tha: has color.
muse and humor. Betty Grable re-
turns ta the sereen to sine and
dagee and display gorgeous ciothes
Jou au even more gorgeors igure.

"Romance plays its pact when she

‘Don Atmecthe. the, son of a
wealthy Argentine landowfer, who
the -fastest horse in the
[world but refuses to race him be-
cause ot an old track tragedy. Betty
inallypersiiades Dont ron—the
horse_ secretly ud in the end
oi | everything turns out beautifully.

Meets

Possesses

Parade _Of Opini

inittees are working under his instruetions :—
Dr. Johnson and Winston Taylor on the
ducation Committee, Mr. Ilobart anc
Casey Jones on the Fntoreement Commit-
tec, and Professor Wood and Bob Finley
‘on the Kngineering Committec.

Shrubs and lawns on the campus |

of San Diego State
15,000 gallons of water daily.
oo

A wind tunnel with air speeds |

up to 100 thiles_an hour is being
built at_

—- Seven mea can’: do much aione to stop
accidents, but seven hundred men who
realize the tull significance of the danger
and wish to do something about it can ac-
complish a great deal. Let's co-operate, and

the next time you drive over to Charlotte

try to remember that a-lot of people would
miss you, and DRIVE CAREFULLY.

~—G.WeT

‘JYornia extension division.

Clara.

—__
Twenty southern California com-
fmunities are served through classes
offered by the University of Cali-

University of IMlinois
News reports 85 to 90 per cept of

1940 graduates are. employed in| year identifies from 300 to 800 p plant |are_ convinced that. the young lady |
. of today has developed an appre-l.

ork of their choice.

College uytilege are raising cattle on a dict that

the University of Santa school has -decided_to continue its)

-|Tereford Breeders Association.

Alumni

Scientists at Kansas State Col-

| substitutes powdered limestone for
taltaita.

| ————- ~
The University of Minnesota law

{three-year course for students who
enter with a-B.A,

v7

—_———_—_—- @
Proi. J. C. Holbert of Lowa State

College is secretary. of the -lowa

—___¢ —____—
O. A. Stevens, North Dakota Ag-

ricultural— Colege botanist, each

species for farmers.

recorded. Nts. at their dance,

ha ¢

1d [1-8 Nea —nen—espeeiallywhensehes
be-sweatered ‘bays rated. first. ou

reert-yress cooiyeniten bathe
- Whiskey > Bob
veain Hal ketun shot on aFetreauing
Ye ie “AT withdrawal

Vinley and Dar.

desl

- dealing owas censored.
Rasster has tirued musician con ets
now that he tatches the weekly re
eral up Wi has trans-1|
“tered to a imajer in mitsie in that
dept. ‘led Letnbach took
wipfup tumther to cultivate hiy lock

haurat Salem and qo cirill the wirls

att ar!

loys,

vthe week-end so he cotid, give the ;
bors on the campus a view of the

»Dook game irom the broadcasting
thooth. He ctriins to have been of-

toy Lewis shot;
tower to. Charlotte but ended up in!
i Jacksonville a football game |
Fri. where he coveret a wide
‘acid in his operations. Sanirret |

al

un

Vellamy is in bed straits with his,

tye ia

velar

lover an Lyachourg now.
word comes that he is me the
vaniBbh before the (lush. _ 7%
ure fume sotgadhe tmagasines as
came off the press and used
then as smoke signal material,
!Therg@uwas considerable dealing,
wheeling and. readiag at the
sorority convention after some o
the boys etashed ther dance Sat. |
‘Lack Phillips had a date that was |

they

lim Tlawel\
flonky

ithe impatience \f

wis Whipped ou

he

luckecl men on the campus, caught :
i his date with

1.

weekly Sara Vaylor

mn,

Te WET Ree Tobie here tieir

Bevo,

Apie Means dei his trai pin tor,

Lik Abner oh contemporary fitera-!
jon

a

iholding lots. of doge bur due to!

Tonk ;
‘yj Shore, one or Ute MS coAipleceiy

for duty at press tune’ 7 — Shep
Toot Tad his date to burn the,
ware up when delennull not locate

Ragin se he could get on campus

Salejuy stl

go anes i

Sit.

ts)

on pe. Timbo Tolimson |
the lipstich tend of the own shet

WO thwihie cetreat in the waeuig—
‘taies aitter playing in Durham along

juith Patiang Peacon Bahnson. A

‘rumor here declares that Jumbo
has Shree frat pins in cirealation at
times » ... What an operator?

There is a notoriaus gang of thin _
“tnen pulling deals from_theit-head-
Ga, every might ase!
Mabama ta Nags
gang made up ot
MeReynolds and Thin

Kegers, who spend the dies

a

Tanarters in
_. ranging trem
Itead. « This
“enata”

is

Tanned Mit ob ia Eade | a aah wir the EUS + We : - :
that is aetumy to be a hibit wath Prank Tinale. Swine vune to belatso have. another hig radio man, sleeping and their nights ream.
lahis relatively fe nmestroe and coupled with hise cutting of “Au-jin our midst and te is no other than! fing the Southern States hunting
his cequally new hand. This side cumin on the Campus.” a aew.cal- Barber Mcleod, (he famous cae) with muck alist pies Lodi, a
i Ue samme boogie wangie @roovelegiate Lidlad. The title or teemewin | operater_oi Lee Kirhy of Stition keys. The lutkey is the samartest
Bente ee necentt Hem Me “Curtin, the Cass ail wep oT _. oe band. one sof the hardest bird. of
RB. wi Coe ts. the corbration of this barrel-1 Frank Barker. whe fading shadow, the. forest tor corner and bas, ace
Wor meet, ter uaelt oon ensean hotoer aad the sweet Ballad, both cane the man a ho has beer so thu. cording to these naturalists, Thin
best sclhina disk -let-. The reverse. in tha collegiate vein. has naj dee sive this vear: uutned the ude irom | Man spent last Salon the Dartks
*Celery stathe.at Midnigin, hemes a; ridl the Joe and ue Cot ite Queen City ta several pointe! Ol the Catawba op the trail of one’
Mthe whele ork tack anita the glee lesor= : enti —Ehe—repert—tnr—te— press of the largest birds he had ever
Tre, on 9 linnoraus instrunie nud wo new oone by Shaw imeludes states that-he formed a lock im the) SST 8% he says. and when he fel-
tunmber chit has the typical Tete 68 0. Castle in Scotland.” and! city with some unknawn man wha} Hat the time was ripe for the lal!
and & wh. Ir obs. Yous. Teeorded by Victor itwisted his arm and forced him th wamer escaped.-Toweser, he is -
~ Charlie Harner on Blaclint fas Stas pus his big hand Jhrough’ inte going up ta chase “foxes hot to be deteated by ahis tirst
Steere AV Aeloot the Fos—iruch: xtratghtermand-more concen Fihvough the commtry &mowr as jattempe fer des -lunting gronnd ‘and

“rvews he will endeavur vo the bes
[mnths ability to locate aim grab
by the beautiful neck this well
Known turkey hen Young MeReyn-
olds je serving bis - apprenticeship
now and says he has hopes of re-
wiving his degree from We
ter in the near cature,

‘Rug Catter King and Skinny
pNolds were so infatuated with ona
of the Hlameooming eitis that they
whipped over into the inlts of Tenn.
Tue. to catch a late and- back
pon Wed... Stutts, silent: operator
vot the senior class, seems to be
headed tor a big jUb in N. Yoand—
rt largesestate on Long foland.

Ne dope on Noxious Narman
this week. but an uncontirmed dasis
t{rom Charlotte lists him as .a po-
venta) Casanova-- with: -the -heaw —
on lip ren&e. Seems he's
trying to keep up with) Mule—the
Dred Epnoed. recling-dealing— man.

as -

Nee

acoent

CONCERNING THE “D” SWEAT.
ER AS A SOCIOLOGICAL.
FACTOR: _

attracting female dtteiftion, the
monogram sweater seems lately to
have fallen into disrepate as
charm for young ladies.

The. reasons for this can be
aseribed both to the foibles of the
lemates and to

a

wearers of the
“D" themselves. In regard to the
iormer group it is believed that
the ladies. in the first place. are

tending more to an appreciation ot
the polish inherent to glee club-

Compassing
Campuses

Once a very powerful Weapon in:

eo

BY

TOM CAUBLE

a
ciation for the intellectual and pol-

ished collegian and thus haliback’s
have given, way, to teofs and Phi

Jetes.

Another school is as adamant in
its belief that athletes have gained.
the right of security within their,
sweaters because the athletes them-
selves are mot able to tender the
young ladies the neccessary amount
of attention due to the demands
which sports make upon their time -
and energy. ‘They complain of the
habit of getting a dateless frater
nity brother or visiting fireman cto
squire them about during _a_ large

t

iracurricularites * im general, to the
‘detriment of the athletic addicts.

Yhe days are well within the re-
Twiembrance of the seniors, five and

the coed ladder. It was then that
it. was. every young lady’s— fre-
quently fulfilled dream to strip at
least one young man of his. mono-
gram. It was an accepted fact that
ho war-bag or trophy case
eomplete= without one.

Specific reasons for the changes
that time chas_thus—wroncht can
perhaps not be given. However,
the facts are clearly prominent and
appear to support in fair credence
several popular, lines of conjecture.

As it hdd been* before remarked,

was

bets, dance oommiticemen, and ex-|

part of those dance week-ends
which happen to. coincide with athe
letic seasons. Again young men
sein to be much inclined ‘to yawn-
ing after’ 9:30 p.m. on those days
pwhen—tey—hare had ‘ard or long
practices. .
Yet.a third group reminds us that
athletic associations are not pass-
ing out sweaters with :-the alacrity
of the boom years, and thus for.
reasons that are obvious they can-
not be passed on.
Then a-respectable namber prot.
fer the opinion that young ladies
have been forced to withdraw irom
this field of endeavor for the sim-.
ple reason that they have iound it
too difficult to remain well enough
versed in the various sports “lin-
gos" to hold their own in athictic

a goodly, group of campus: Sages

o

conversations. When it became evi-
dent that they would have to mas-

(Continued on Page Six)
