Page Two

THE

DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, May 8, 1941

The Wavidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Member

Associaled Collegiate Press

Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

JPrinted By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
__ Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIOING OY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

. College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N, Y.
EMG AGO BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

el

Entered as Tecond-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
woos North, Cacatina,.ondes, the act.of March, Ard, 1879...

-EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

HARWELL DARBY
JACK COVINGTON ....

EDITORIAL STAFF

--Assistant Editor"
Associate Editor
Associate Editor

: Bob Garvey
Botby—Carter—
Dick Cobb

Ww. C. Plunkett nes eeee. Associate Editor
Al Winn - Associate Editor
Ed Erwin .. Managing Editor
Joc Eve .... .-Managing Editor
Jimmy Fuleher 22... 22 eases Managing Editor
Bily Lyman . . .. Managing Editor

Managing Editor
Sports Editor

Henry Mcfatosh .
Lacy MeLean

David Vosburgh 22.22. 222.22- 025 eee ne ee eee ee ee eee Movie Editor
BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plowk ene Assistant Rusiness Manager
Dick Ketty—.. Manager
Ed Scott....-.. _Ciecutition Manager
Charlie Watt... « -+s--eCirculation Manager
John Crichton. - : ----Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze... ---Subscciption Manager

This paper is the official history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion.
As such jt welcomes any Contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not contain
defogatory reference to faculty or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material_ovust -be-in -the-editoc’s- hands by-.Monday —
night of the week that it is to be printed, and the
_editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or communication.

‘broaden his general scope.

4, survey of letters in the file of Scabbard
and Blade, ROTC fraternity, is adequate proof
of the value which the leading educators and
business men of this country place upon the
service being rendered by such units as ours.
Particular emphasis was placed by these men
upon the training in co-operation, responsi-
bility, punctuality, proper address, dress, poise
and kindred things which our curriculum, in
its hurry, sometimes overlooks. College presi-
dents throughout the land praised the effort
to impress respect, for authority, organization
and the iterther development of right habits.
On the other hand none of them, found this
program-to inculcate “militarism” or an eager-
ness for war. From personal knowledge you
will find that the officers of our army are.
among the strongest for peace. They know
what kind of business war is. ©

(fighlight of this course is the summer
cantp which all rising seniors attend for six
weeks in the first of the summer. It is an.
exferience never-to-be forgotten. I think if
you ask each man who attended at some time
what Jig chief benefit was, he with wndoubtedly-
point to some fact which has done much to
To live with, eat
with, work with, be tired with, go through all
kinds of experiences with, other college men,
all gathered for the same purpose of imstruc-
tion, benefits beyond belief. For six wecks
each man is given a chance to show just what
he can do. The camp is a natural stimulus
‘for Davidson spirit of an intercollegiate nature,
and Davidson men have made a record of
which anyone can be proud. The good will
and reputation of Davidson is spread to

avegions never reached through our ordinary,

connections.

Newly made officers of our unit each year,
jittery and tense at first, soon settle them-
selves in the drill field into men capable of |
judgment, instruction, action, thought and |

as a means to inform both you and

r you are here will be spent in a dry

Letters to the Editor

FROM CLEMSON:

(Supplied by. the Clemson News
Service, Clemson, S.C.) *

You will be in a healthy climate,
right at the foot of the Blue Ridge
mountains, Clemson is one of those
few places where when it rains it

Clemson, S. C. May.—To the R.| pours and when the sun shines, it
O. T. C. students of, the 4th Corps does it gloriously. The days can be
Area Colleges and Universities who] hot and: your work may make them

will attend camp this summer:

hotter, but the®nights will be cool

Clemson College is proud to be|and you'll be using a blanket in the
your _host_for. the 1941 version of |¢arly hours of every morning—pro-

Uncle Sam's R: O. T. C. House! vided Uncle Sam doesn’t rouse you
Party, and College officiats and res- [out of bed about the same time you

idents of this little
anxiously await the opportunity to
give you a warm welcome.

Since you are to be with us for a
period of six wecks, you probably
are interested in “what it's like at
Clemson." Your families are also
wondering what kind of place you
are geing to and how you will be
taken éare of. ,

This brief article has been chosen

your parents something of what to
expect.

First and foremost is the ~cdin-
forting assurance that each night

and comfortable bed, the same beds
Clemson College cadets -sleep—in
from September until Jane. A fel-
low who has goromfortable bed to
tumble-into ‘every night can stand
a lot of wear and tear during the
day. You will sleep two and three
to a room approximately nine by
twelve feet.

And if the way to a man’s heart is
through his stomach, you are going
to love it around these parts. You
will be fed in the spacious Clemson
College mess hall from the most
-spic and,span kitchen you ever
saw. Captain J. D. Harcombe, the

poise. Most of all they can stand on their genial Tigertown mess officer who

own two feet and talk, head erect and eyes
-srtaight, a quality that not everyone gains in
college.. As instructor he accustoms himsel
to an andience and devotes his whole energy

“to getting across his point.

Briefly this is an idea but it may show
some points which our local ROTC unit is
putting into the mill run of “getting an edu-
éation.” Such a program certainly has been,
-is, and will. be, a_valuable asset to any col-
lege curriculum. -
J. H. McDUFFIE, JR.

IMPORTANCE OF THE R. O. T. C.

With National Defense. being so strongly
impressed upon our ears, minds and very
hearts these days what part is the- ROTC:
playing in this development? What is the
value of this investment which our nation has
seen fit to make since the close of the last
war, and closer still what is the value of the
Advanced ROTC course to the past, present
and future men of Davidson College?

= Today. as our - army _is rapidly expandihg, al-
mest sixty per cent of the officers on duty
with the Regular Army units in the field are
from the Reserve Corps and almost ninety
per cent of the lieutenants are Reserve Of-
ficers. These percentages are steadily in-
creasing. It is a proven fact that these
men are fitting smoothly into the Regular
Units and this is a tribute indeed to the fine
training being offered in the ROTC units of
our universities and colleges. These men are
serving not only in the United States’ con-
tinental limits but also in the garrisons of
our outlying possessions. Brig. Gen. Hester
in a recent address to members of the ROTC
said, “Those of you who are called or ordered
to active duty need not have any fears as
to whether you can make good with Regutar
Army units or any other units.
—carefully. | want to impress this upon you
because | know what I am talking about. 1
have. scen them come in and I have seen them
work. Your training in the Reserve Officers.
Training Corps will qualify you to take over
and do your job and do it well. So, have con-
fidence in your ability when you do report
to your first duty after getting your com-
mission.”

Still more interesting or of more concern
is the thought about the merit of this train-
ing which our own Infantry Unit offers in
respect to our past, present and future men
of -Davidson. 1 say past men because, if

their training has--been—er—ts -ef-ne—value—to -

them now, then there’s no need for the pres-
ent, or future. ROTC students have a program
in our curriculum which the non-parti¢ipants
definitely do not experience. It is a program
too varied; too extensive, too instructive to
be surmised briefly in a sentence. ' It is an
all-ground course in physical, mental, and
social development. “Academic work in the
class room, exercise in the field and the ;com-
radeship which only men-of-arms possess,
make up a schedule for four years at college.

Mark this |

VALUE OF TRAINING

The international situation is critieal. The
situation of the United States is perilous. To
preserve our democratic way of life and main-
tain our standard of living, we must be pre-.
pated to deiend our country and ourselves.
To do this calls for fibre in our people. °It
means that we must Gegrive ourselves of some
luxuries and liberties that we have been_ac-
customed to. It means that we must have
| discipline and order... To adequately cope
with a would-be-aggressor, our people must be
strang and fearless. Have. we become soft?
Ilave- we carried the idea of doing as we
please too dar? Have-our young people sul-
ficient sense of discipline?

The R. O. T. C. Course at Davidson pro-
vides a source of teaching and training in
which the student learns that he must be able
to sacrifize his personal desires and whims
for the goog of the common cause. He learns
that he mast be able to obey orders. It is
true that the R. O. T. C. student finds his
military work exacting and definite. But
“it is through such training that people will
be able to adequately meet any crisis that
arises. Jt is only through this type of train-

nig that we can become hard enough.to cope |« tree and Rasy

with any foree that threatens our national
well being.

DON’T MISS:

page one irom Dr._Cunningham concerning
deferment. °

. The letter appearing under the column “Let-

ters to the Editors” which comes from Clem-
n, S.C, where the summer R. O. T. C.

camp will be hefd.

FExam schedule on page six.

“THIS issue Of the Davidsomian ‘features the

father,

The letter to the student body appearing on |i

has made Clemson men grow ~big
and healthy for upward of twenty

{ years will see to it that you are

well fed. Thus the two primary
worries of man—his bed and _ his
meals—need not concern you fur-
ther. You'll like.’em both.

E in this section of the country;

community {Start groping the covers.

To give you a general bird's cye
view of Clemson College itself:
This is an inStitution with an en-
rollment of 2,340 all—R. O. T. C.
students. It was designed and is
operated nine months in a year for
just such fellows as yourselves,
It should be admirably adapted to
take excellent care of your needs
for the summer.

Yor will sleep in
planned barracks; drill
manetvers on the spacious campus,
[one of the most naturally beautiful

conveniently
and hold.

have constant advantage’ of such
things as the Clemson Hospital, the
well-stocked, Clemson Library, the
Y: M:-C. A. swimming pool, Clem-
son’s varsity, baseball diamond, a
large parade ground for softball and
other outdoor sports, the tennis
courts, and countless other little
itents that will weave together to
make your stay here both comfort-
able and interesting.

A word of warning, however:
Don’t look for too soft a bed of
roses. Uncle Sam very probably
has quite a list of his own plans
jotted down and there is every rea-
soti to believe that you're in for a
lot of pretty hard work. But hard
work has hurt relatively few peo-
ple. Clemson does not say: that
your days will not be work days;
Clemson only says that the folks
here will do ever$thing possible to
make your work more enjoyable. *

Clemson News Service,
JOE SHERMAN.

Film: Report_Card

CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday and Friday
May 8 and 9
The Penalty

*

Arnold
Marsha Hunt

*

*

Edward
more

Lionel

drama of a regenerated boy the
solidity’ it needs to be an outstand-
ing show. Edward Arnold plays a
cold cruel criminal who brings up
his son, Gene Reynolds, in his law-
breaking footsteps.° The son is
caught, however, and after serving a
period—in-a_reform_ school,.is re-
leased into the custody of a young
jarmer_and_his. grandfather, Lionel
Rarrymore. Under their influence,
the boy gradually ceforms himself
and refuses to be influenced by his
who tater mets his just de-
serts.

Saturday

May 10

Ride On Vaquero

Cesar + Romero, Mary Beth
Hughes, Lynne Roberts, and Cris-
Pin Martin.

This is another of the popular
“Cisco Kid" series, in which the
leading part is taken by Cesar Ro-
mero. © Mary Beth Hughes lends
the feminine angle to this story of
the golden west.

The tate show Saturday night is

1 would like for Joe McCoy to
be the guest of the theatre for any
show this week.

_ Monday and Tuesday
‘ May 12 and 13
Men of Boy’s Town
1 7
Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney,
Bobs. Watson, and Larry Nunn.

* *

Boy’s Town having been such a
box-office hit, it was quite natural
to have a sequel with Spencer
Tracy asthe understanding Father
Flanagan and Mickey Rodtey as
Whitey Marsh. This time Mickey
is the mayor of the City of, Little
Men. The plot revolves around Fa-

ther Flanagan, who takes in a little

R._O. T. C. Inspection which is being held [crippled boy named Ted Martley;

this afternoon and tomorrow.

and hope that his stay here is enjoyable.
above editorials are not written by persons
om the Davidsonian staff but the space is
given te to officers of the R. O. T. C. Unit.

The special i issue is Sponsored by ‘the R. O.
T. C. department and Scabbard and Blade Mil-
itary Fraternity, “¢—

“We welcome Ted has been convicted of ‘killing
Uieutenant Colonel Brownell to the campus |a brutal guard at the reform-school,
The jand Father Flanagan trys to re-

habilitate the embittered boy. When
Whitey goes to the reformatory to
investigate one of Ted’s friends, he

idwe » Li Barcy-
. shi . Robert Ster-
ling. and Gene Reynolds.
8
An excellent cast renders — this

finds himself a prisoner along side.

TMiles Fenley, the boy he tried to

help. When the cruel guards beat.

up the two boys, Miles is so badly

injured that he dies, and Father.

Flanagan comes to Whitey's rescue
and—But that would be telling.

This production is more sentimen-
tal that it’s predecessor, and may
be a little thick, but the same re-
markable. character portrayals: by

Tracy and Rooney make this a show ||

missed.
Wednesday
May 14
Bargain Day

not to b

Two shows are on the bill for this
day, both equally) worth. seeing.
They are “Man Made Monster” and
“Horror Island.”

Coming soon: Ziegfeld Girl with
Lana Turner, Jimmy Stewart, Hedy
Lamarr ,and Judy Garland. Great
American Broadcast with Alice
Faye, John Payne and Jack Oakie.

©.
OWENS NAMES

et

[Gontinued from Pane One)

Retiring members of the cabinet
are: Jim Owens, ‘ Vespers and
Church Relations; Charles Watt,
Sunday Schools; Bill Loftin, Dep-
utations; J. B. Flynn, Social Life;
BiH Boyte. World Evangelism:
Lawson ‘Withers, Publications; J.
R. Jones and Albert Winn; Boys’
Work: Eldridge Brown: Conimun-
ity Service: Bob Finley,, Freshman
Work; Henry Bahnson.. Student
Government Representative: Bob
Johnson and Ralph Williams, Spir-
itual Development; and Paul
Crane, Chapel Services. These

——l men were Ied-during the past year

by Ed Watson, Presidént;
Watt, _ Vice=President; and
Owens, Vice-President.

Charles
> Jim

GLEE CLUB TAKES TRIP

The music department of Da-
vidson has an active schedule for
the next. few weeks. Prof. Thane
McDonald has planned a ‘tour for
all’ eligible members of the Glee
Club. This trip, which will be
,taken on May 10 and 1] by about
35. members, will feature con-
certs in Sanatorium, N. C. on
Saturday afternoon; Red Springs,

Saturday
morning

and afternoon; and
Wadesboro, Sunday night.

The band program will feature
concerts to be given each Tues-
day night by the Davidson Band.
Special programs have been
planned for these events, which
will be given in front of the
Chambers building.

I’ve ever heard in my whole life and

Ss.

Lhow much I enjoyed thé dances.

Yehudi’s Yowls
By Yehudi

Spring Frolics, better known as ,out pinning up the one and only.
Flush Frolics,- have come and gonc.| Apologies to you, Commander, from
In alt the history of Davidson dances | Yehudi. We didn’t .mean to over-
this column has never known so|look that.shiner (pin not black eye)
many disappointed (?) young men.| which you hung on Alice. (For all

‘The most unusual_flush-of-the-|the unlucky ones that didn’t meet
week came to “Buzzie’—he got one her, she is called Alice Bryan.) ~
collect.. This poor sout was not| Big Deal Dale must have been do-
the only one to suffer, other oper-| ing some fancy fanning of that old
ators being just as much on the | flame lately—he’s on the catching
losing end.- Jumping Joe Liles re-}end again.
ceived no less than five of those] -Ashby Dick and Liza Jane are at
sweet notes telling of his defeat./it again. Betsy could not be found
We don’t know but what he might |at the dance when Papa Armisted
have finally gotten one—the law of |paged her. Old grads of S. A. E.
averages ~is—more—just—than -that-}showed—up ‘but didn’t slow down,
“Ookie” tried and failed four times, | proving they are the same good men
and “Looie Blooie”’ was caught on|they once were. Harrison and
the phone, begging, on the eve of the | Ross were not after Porky's date
‘dances. — -but-they- never -found-her—she was—

While speaking of dances and {in bed asleep.
flushes there is a time cach year| Hats off, by the way, to Porky
when a qucen is crowned at most! for starting off all the dances. By
schools: the May Queen, We have using his head and his feet, he
our own May Queen—“May come |helped out more than he realized.
or May not"—who hails from Win-}And hats off to Spivak and the Pan
ston-Salem and is the undisputed |Hellers. The band was the best in
Queen of the Flush. She got here] years.
for Homecoming, flushed “Angel”
Wooten for Mid-Winters, “Dead-
pan” for Military Set, and ended
up by turning down Ookie for the
Flush Frolics. Some record. Well,
keep on trying, fellows, Carolina
and Duke dances or no Carolina
and Duke Dances.

Murphy is going to get some new
ted hankies so the laundry won't :
know how many dates he has each
week. Hobbie flushed Vos on his
late with thé date of the first party
by keeping her up most of the night.
The “Jin” and barbecue at Chapel
Hill, boys, very very early Sunday

Incidentally, this columnist sug-|morning got many many of the fel-
gests that Mr. Gaffney, he of the/laws on the run.
know-all, see-all, and tell-nothing
fame, establish a flush-of-the-dance G
club, and award at the Friday for-
'mal of each dance set either a silver
mug ora free ticket to see CASA-
NOVA RIDES AGAIN to the lad
whose flush note was best of all.

Another story this one about
reasy Greek Long, known miles
around by the fairer sex by his
first name (even as far north~ as
Lynchburg), was visiting in Char-
lotte one night last week when hd
received a call from the student ~
Locks and unlocks were the most|store telling him he had company
predominant feature of the week-|that had come all the way from
end. Friend Cupid and Ychudi]Greensboro to see him. She was
rested on the shoulders of our new] so obstinate she wouldn't leave the
prexy, Winn, while he put the last | stud till she had seen Greek.
Winning touches on his Grace lock.

Friends, and I hope I have a few
Some ceremony and Some pin.

left, I give good advice when I say
Old Boom-had an awfully hard|that Yehudi and Cupid are the best

time waiting till the figtfre was over of friends, so don’t fool with one

Friday night so that he could be unless you expect the other.

&

Down

Pat

BY

PAT RUDOLPH

TWO LETTERS RECEIVED RE-
‘CENTLY BY DAVIDSON STU-
DENTS, OR: THE RISE AND
EALL OF THE_YOUTH OF TO-1-
DAY.

on it, then burn it in the fraternity
‘hoitse fireplace, he's St. Tolerance
himself. A normal college . student
would put on sackcloth and ashes
for -much -less than this. A well-
known Georgia’ satellite stated that
he would rather receive a flusho-
gram at the last minute than have
a date down .like this.

Deaf Boris :- Kn

I just don’t know how to tell you

However, ‘another . letter was
brought to our attention which mer-
its the respect and admiration of ~
every student: ° ‘

Charlic Spivak is thé best orchestra

his vocalist was so good. I’m going]
to listen to Charlie from now on
when he plays on the radio. Didn't
you love the way he played “Inter-
mezzo?”

Dearest One:

I am sending this letter S. D. A.
M. because I couldn't wait to let
you know that T arrived home safe-
ly, although th trip on that airliner
was pfetty rough.. My mascara
started to drool when we reached.
10,000 feet:as a. matter of fact, I
could hardly write this fetter be-
cause my fountain pen bled all over
the stationery. You know how al-
titude affects liquids. So I decided
to wait until IT got both feet on the
ground before I told you what a
marvelous time I had at Davidson.—
Everything was certainly pretty
rooty-tooty, all right. The music.
was wonderful, but that was a minor
detail in my week end. Just seeing
you for those few cherished hours |
was heaven. I had dreamed and
thought for weeks about ~ seeing
you. I even had a calendar to mark ©
the days and hours off like you
boys do at school.

I'm going right down to the music
store and buy some of his records.
It'll be so nice to have Flower Mae
and Gussie Lou .in to hear the rec-
ords. I can tell them how I actually
heard him play in person at the Da-
vidson dances. Wasn't that cute of
him to introduce his whole band at
the tea dance Saturday afternoon?
Katy Mae said that she was going
to get some of his records, too. She
has so many boy friends, and [ real-
ly don't see how she does it, because
she vever gets to the dance til! late
and she always leaves early. It
seems to me that. she would want
to be there all the time so every one
can notice her and see her new
dress.

I'm sorry that I had to go right
to bed after each dance, but I'm in
training a our hockey team here
at school. WA

Gee, I can hardly wait until y'all’
have Spivak again. ~He was so good.

—As_ever,

Give all the boys in the fraternity
my love, They, are all Such won--
'derful=fclHows.__ Johnny is a_swell_
boy, but. don’t worry, dear. There

is-only-one—you, -and_Cll_never—for=—

TESSIE SUE. sake you for someone else.

Tm sorry that this has to be so
short, but I've got to, get it off on
this next plane. I'll be waiting for
you with open arms next week end.

This young lass would make -a
good publicity agent for Hector and
his boys, but that is all she would
make. I. doubt if she'll ever make
the Varsity Archery team. Can’
you imagine how Boris felt when
he received this letter? If he didn't
tear it into a thousand pieces, jump

Devotedly,
YOUR SWEETHEART.

(Ain't she a honey, though).
