Page Two

The Bavidsonian

Founded .By. -the Class of 1915.

“Member

ed Collegiate Press
Distributor of

Collesiale Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Associat

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotie, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Colleginte year

REPREGENTEO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING ®Y

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE. Yew YORK, N. Y.

CHrcago + Boston - Los anctecs - SAN Francisco

!

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina. under the act of March 3rd, 1879

HARWELL DARBY,...._

Assistant Editor”

W. C. Plunkett - ssociate Editor
Al Winn...-.----- 2. ete ceo ee eee Associate Ed:tor
Ed Erwin... Tleneeeeeeeee Managing Ethtor
Joc Eve... . Managing Editor
Jimmy PFulcher_...2.2. 2 a-- eee Managing Editor
Bill Lyman... -Manag ng [editor

Houry.Melntosh.
Lacey MacLean...

Clarence Legerton..
Billy Barker

Lanaging Wditor
Sports Editor

---Stati Photographer

= -

BUSIN ESS. STAFF
—— Cathoun—Hppe

‘Peter Young... 22.22. .222-- - Advertising Manager.
Joe Marta alarctiation Manager
Buck McNeely Curcujation Manager
Ivey Stuartill..--.. Collections Manager

This paper is the official history of college “hr

and is a medium of, student and laculiy opinion.

As -such—it—welcomes_ any .conygbutiaus or_cam-
mumnications_to it, provided such dacs not contain
~~ derogatory: weference, to facufty.or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editors hands by Monday
night of the week that it .is tobe printed, andithe ,

© editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or communication,

oF

ARMISTICE DAY, 1941

As Armistice Day, 1941, approaches, the
campus is considering the appropriate form
of observing this occasion.

y

To the millions who in 1938 eeledratted the +
first Armistice Day, 11 meant the end ofa long,
bitter struggle and the beginning of a new and,
better era. “

Aiter 21 years we are observing Armstice
Day in the midst of a new and more terrible
war, the results of htumanity*s iailure to uulize
the opportunities presented by the peace of
Versailles. As we, the American peoplc, now
take up the grim task of mobilizing all our re-
sources ior deiense, we must afso tnalke sure
that we shall not lose the next peace.

The character_oi the peaee thar will come

Movie Faditor | ~

atte ttH—Rasindnn Alana gert.

ak

cin a tubing factory and received % meager educa-

were. calling him and he accepted the call of the

Fetters to The Editor

'

Dear_Tony: _ .
, One of our modern philosophers has said
that laughter is the method used by society
to” defend itseli ‘against the unorthodox,
different, or unusual man thus preserving a
reasonable stability and consistency in the
character of things.

Permit me then to congratulate the David-
san gentlemen tor their immeasurable con-
tribution to welfare and progress by their
laughter during the piano playing of John
Kirkpatrick on Monday morning. Not being
a musician I.shall not attempt to make a state-
ment as to the valuc_of this music. Nor shall
i introduce such out-moded things as courtesy
~unel politeness. “khe important thing is that
Davidson has met with a nan who is too dif-
ierent to make for unilicd society and has
properly ridiculed him.

—JOHNNY*MacLEOD.

_ With
The Staff

BY JIMMY FULCHER _

L

:

Thuraday and Friday
November 6 and 7

A WEEK-END IN HAVANA

ee ay

‘2

Alice Faye, Carmen

Wright Jr., and George Barbier.

John Payne is being fitted for his
wedding-suit, preparatory to ~hi
marriage to Cobina Wright, when

his boss brings
news that one
of the com-
pany’s steamers
has pilled up on
a Florida reef.
John is forced
-to—rush é
scene (missing
his wedding re-
hearsa)) to
straighten
any legat diffi-

Today, Wednesday, November 6, 1941, one of the
greatest nen in the. Southern Presbyterian Church is
upon our campus. -Fall Services are underway and
Dr. Peter. Marshall.is at the helm.—You've heard
him: you are going to hear him tonight because he is
gaod. Yuu know that he has a real message for you.

When you -heard him yesterday

“—ywoucteatized that he was a real
~ ‘redblooded Christian leader — a

} man of God, certainly the nian for
a

culties with the passengers. Ail but
one of the passengers are willing to
settle for future passage, that one
betig Alice Eaye, a_Macy’s” sales-
cirl. Fler arguements are that this
is her vacation, that she won't be

“—youand me in this limege Maybe
<.2° you feel as I do;-you know him—
see mete — Tow the type-ofman hes, know -
what he stands for, and yet you
-want to know more about him, his
lita; his werk,
Peter Marshall was born in

- Edinborough, Scotland some thir-
ty-tive or forty years ago, As_a young: boy he work-

able to get away again, and that
the steamship company has ruined

her one dte¢ chnce for glamour and
romanee. To pacify her, John’s
boss inststs he escort-her to Havana
and do Ihis best to entertain her on
the company’s money.

. Things don’t go so good in Ha-
vana, aS Alice ioses fabulous sums
of the company's money at the rou-

tion through night sebooling. Ue became restless
and. undecided about his future Lie and on the sug-
gestion of a ifiend decided to come to America. He
was then about twenty ycars old. After a year of
wailing for his quota, he sailed and_came to New
Jersey, Ativer applying for a good many jobs he
joined the Newajersty Nationat-Guard—and = served’
“in a maghine gun company. His lot was to carry
the tripod. .

tette whee}, and also becomes in-
volved with Cesar Romero, Carmen
Miranda's shiftless manager. To
plicate things, _John's -bride-to-!
be flys to the scene to sce what's
going on. And believe it or not, it
all finally works out. :

Next he turned to a steel foundry and while
working there he decided that this was not his life’s
work. Ile realized that his calling: was to do God's
work,{so -he began to work in a small church in
Georgia, Soon the people of that church became in-
terested in him, apd so great and sincere was their
“interest that they sent him to Columbia Seminary

Although the plot wouldn't weath-

er a stiff breeze, the musical

abounds with color, dancing, music
and Carmen Miranda, whose songs

are as “pepperish” as ever. !
wherg he was graduated ‘in 193L with a Bachelor of
Divinity Degree. : His first pastorate was in Coving-
ton, Georgia. It was ot tong before large churches

Saturday, November 8
MOB TOWN

oe *
The. Dead-End. Kids.

Westminister Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.
C. in 1937, The following year, Presbyterian College
jv Clinton, S. C. eénfered upon him the degree of
Doctor of Divinity. —

While at Columbia Seminary he begainé engaged
to dliss Katherine Wood, a student at Agnes Scott,
and in-1930 they were, married, They have a son,
Peter, Jr. whom Dr. Marshall says has the makings
of a great tackle, although he_is..but cightéen months
old-today. *

Probably no_minister has..a. greater appeal_to

out oi this war will in part be determined by
the degree to which statesmen are supported
_ by a mature and informed public opinion. Col-
leges can take leadership in difiusing iniormas
tion and stimulating interest in-the problems
—itherent in building @ Detter world. Certainly,
__ the sfiident. body with. its. associates. every
‘whére, whether in the armed fdfces, on the,
farm or in the factory, who will inherit the

post-war world, have a right and responsibility | —-Some years ago, Dr. Marshall was invited to at-

to concern themselves with this issue:

The United States Committee © i interna-
tional Student Service, therefore, urges that
on November 11th, classroom discussions and
Armistice Day exercises be organized around

the theme of peace aims and post-war rec

on-
struction. :

The toremost questions to de considered arc:

1. What stake does the United States have
in the peace that will follow the war?

Is the Roosevelt-Churchill statement of
peace aims—the Atlantic Charter—an

adequate summary of the peace aims of
the American people? How shall those
aims be implemented and realized?

“2,

We could make this Armistice Day an occa-
sion for mourning over the failure of the 1918

—teshr-Washington and dates back past the Civil

y&ing people than docs Dr. Marshall. He is con-
stantly antong them and finds it necessary to turn
down hundreds of invitations to be with them., He
likes to meee young people on their own grounds
and “bul” with them. In ‘one instance when the
church néeded him, after turning Washington inside
out, they TOund him at a baseball game surrounded
bya crowd of boys. At this Wednesday night serv-
ices_in\Washington,—his large church is filled with
Yoong people. His young ‘people's choir has 600
youthful .voices in it.

Benny Goodman

Benny Goodman has released a
foursome of new sides that every
swing lover should audition. The
couplings ares“The Count” with “I
Set 7 Million People” and “Caprice
XXIV’ Paganini” with “I’m Here”.
The first title is a Mary Lou Will-
iams arrangement which shows off

tend a meeting of football coaches from all over the

country who had gathered in Washington to discuss some stabbing Lou McGarity trom-

rule changes. He was introduced as “Dr. Marshall” | bone and nice Cootie Williams
and fhey thought him to be a medital doctor. Im- |trumpet. The only drawback of
mediately he was bombarded with questions concern- | this side is Goodman's tasteless,

ing football injuries, which he answered so  satis-
factorilty that every year he has been invited back
(9 the meeting and enjoys it tremendously, “He has
“et 10. reveal his secret to.the coaches.

“Nee MiFshall’s church is one of the largest and

screeching, clarinet solo. The re-
verse sounds like the Goodman band
of old—a fine, kicking arrangement
Mel Powell
piano. You can skip Peggy Lee's

vocal, though.

and some excellent

War? Many important—government - officials attend

: The Paganini ca-
his church today as they did back in the time when

price is surprisingly adaptable to
rhythm.’ It shows off.a nice clar-
inet solo by Benny and good Vido
Musso tenor, but 7 a
steals the

Abraham Lincoln was a member of the congregation.
This church has grown so much under Dr. Marshall's
tirection that members of' his congregation must sit
in-the basement and hear him over a public address |
tystem, and zaany church-goens must even: be turned
away from the doors.

It is impossible for Dr. Marshall to fill a large
number oi his invitations to speak throughout the
country. However, during the week, Dr. Marshall
ltavels-by air all over the country. Last week he
was in Idaho, Several weeks ago he was in Char:

the thing that
show. is a wonderful
Piano solo by eighteen-ycar-old Mel
P8well. This is one lad that bears
plenty of watthing, not to mention
hearing. He’s, really superb. “I’m
Here” is the weakest of the four

Armistice to provide’ a lasting peace. -Or we,
could blindly and sclfishly concern ourselves
only with ‘protection against immediate dan-|
gers. It would be far better to work positive-
ly to create a just peace and a better inter-
national order-within the democratic frame-
work and with faith jn the peoples of the worl
_to govern themselves. Even in this bleak
winter of man’s hopes, we can sow the seeds
that will produce the springtime of a better
tworld, (Information from the U. S. Commit-
tee of International Student Service.)

lotic _for_a_few hours then flew -back- again ta_—fill-
tarther eigagements.

THE DAVIDSONiAN

-_ _.Comment

By CLARENCE LEGERTON

to-—the-

-| and lost.

._. In the Grooves —

By JIMMIE MORGAN

| bia).

Cinema

it -is the latest of the Dead-End Kid
It is, as,all the others have
been, an excellent portrayal of the
kind of life on the other side of

Series.

Miranda,|the tracks, showing the unfairness
John Payne, Cesar Romero, Cobinajof the type of environment with

All
will

which they ‘have to contend.
fans of the Dead-End Kids

5 | enjoy this, their latest escapade.

Monday and Tuesday
November 10 & 11

BELLE STARR
see
Randolph Scott, Gene Tierney,

Bana Andrews, John Shepperd, and
Elizabeth Patterson.

Gene Tierney finally has a real

out! role in which to show her ability,

the character of Belle
Starr had to be considerably white-
washed for screen purposes. Gene
is not the high-flying bandit queen

although

you expect to find, but merely -a
gently-bred Southern girl who un-
dertakes to refight the Civil War
after “it’ has already ‘been fought

In her agony for revenge, Belle
joins Gp with a Southern rebel; Ran-
dolph, Scott, marries him and lives

through his escapades, only to dis-

cover that the eause of the old South
is in reality only a front for thiev-
ing and killing. She
ly leaves the band only to face
disasterous consequences.

Miss Tierney finally proves that
rshe ‘is not only a beauty, but that
rshe can act.
quite good as a Yankee Major, as
is John Shepperd as Gene's broth-
er.

immediate-

ana ndrews 18

The feature is processed in

Technicolor includes

and some

beautiful scenery.

COMING: A YANK IN THE R. A.

F. with Betty Grable, Tyrone
Power, and John Sutton. LYDIA
with Merle Oberon, Edna May
Oliver, and Alan Marshall.

I would like for Ed Erwin to be

Nothing muctr need be said con-|the guest of the theatre for any
cerning this production, except that| feature this week.

at its best when Shaw, clarinet,
and Mike Bryan, guitar, are solo-
‘ing. The new Shaw combo sounds

amazingly polished for its first rec-

ord. The brass section is especial-
rty-good, with the othet—sections
showing great promise. Be sure to
watch this outfit, (Victor), _

Harry James

Here is an’ orchestra that rare-
ly fails to produce a ‘record that
does* not have something of real
The ex-
citement of James’ “Minka”, lies
in the writing for the string quartet.
The man who scored this number
really, knew what. he was doing.

musical excitement in it.

Also noteworthy are Dick Haymes’

singing and the leader’s trumpet.
The reverse, “Misirlou”, is also a
credit to the James crew. (Colum-

Jazz Classic

Jazz classic’ ofthe week is
“Someday Sweetheart?— (Bluebird
B-10463), by the Benny Goodman
Trio, which consists of Goodman,
clarinet, Teddy Wilson, piano, and

sides, despite fine solos by Gbod-
‘man and McGarity. (Columbia).

In spite of his many engagements and his reg-
ular pastoraie, Dr. Marshall finds time to get to
the tennis courts and bowling alleys-for exercise e ’ -
and hef frequently attends football and baseball games, Artie Shaw's newest orchestra
His youth, wit, Scotch brogue, and vivid descriptions has presented ‘its first pair of’ re-
add, to his popularity. — ———|cordings: “Blues in the Night” and

He was bri ught_here to Davidson by -the-YMGA-+“This Time the Dream’s on Me”.
for the student body for you and me, and he | The better of the two is the former,
wants to meet and’ talk'with. every student on the : “Ling” ,
campus. These appointments or interviews can b which features Oran “Lips” Page's

gravelly singing and burly but nice

arranged through Shaw Smith.
Thank you, Dr. Peter Marshall for your life, your |trumpet playing. The reverse, with
vocal chorus by Bonnie Lake, is

Artie Shaw —

messages,” and your presence here on our campus.

——_ _

-Gene-Krupaz=drums=Phis=record;
a reissue, was made when Good-
man was at the peak of his career,
and shows the great clarinetist at
his magnificent best.Just as mag-
nificent is Wilson’s piano work. The
delicacy, the imagination, the sheer
good taste with which these artists

play is almost unbelievable. Krupa's
This

record should be in the collection of

backing is equally tasteful.

every lover of popular music.

Thursday, November 6, 1941

The Filth Columnist |

_ By 2? 222 ‘

BO-BO CARTER will present a
short travel-talk at Sunday School
this week on his recent accomplish:
ment. of touring five states in’ five,
days. When asked if he missed the
Y retreat, BO-BO replied, “Not in
the least”). . . Which reminds us
that JIM OWENS came within an
ace of missing said retreat, the lure
of a trip to Tennessee and ERNIE
with RALPH WILLIAMS and
WALTER WOOTEN almost over-
powering him, ERNIE is the
one with whom JIM executed the_
now-famous Pause while waiting
on a stoplight at Independence
Square. RALPH and WOO.
WOO both returned gwith sugar-
britches in the most advanced and
dangerous stages. Latter is SHUT-
TING high.

At the Lynchburg game .
JOHN TURNER with a veree, verce
streamlined chassis from Tallahas-
See. . . STINKY STOWE and
KATHRYN ... JIM CROOK roll-
ing in with a beautiful brunette, and

Well, back again after a week’s
layoff in which to hide from the
just fury that a few of our remarks:
in recent issues incurred. Why a
man ever undertakes a job like this
is beyond me. First, you never
get any glory, since for safety’s
sake your name is never printed:
second, “you sit up until dawn on.
Monday nites going through mental
gymnastics remembering the dope
you've overheard, and the tougher
job of slipping it in subtly enough
to get by the censor; and third, you
run the risk of becoming suddenly
friendless if you are ever found out.
In such a case the uncut sever
their relations with you for being
slighted, and the cut do same for
teasons which are quite obvious
(apologies to Major Wilson)

First, apologies to CAROLINE
MILLER, whom we intended to
compliment in our own meager way,
fio have the effort backfire in a hail
of vituperatives. Sorry, SAM...
MARSHALL CHAPMAN continues

|

to push brother JIM for top billing} then later being seen with two
in this column. Although not con-| blondes. What does he tell all
sidered to be phonographic conois-| (hese women? And what about.

FLORA MAC?...

ED TAYLOR scems possessed of
some great secret as he floats about
pon_clouds, Fe and CHICK must
have threshed everything out...
SKEETERBOAT WILSON is on
the wailing-wall, as he and PEG-
GY TAYLOR are definitely out of

step at present...

Well__kids, that’s all for now. |
The filth columnist was somewhat
hampered. this week. by the fact
the he, being a limber from the
timber, stayed on campus all week
cond, with the exception of Thursday,
Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Mon-
day However, even as the Pan
Hellenic Council hopes to eventual- ;
ly have dancing in Rumple every”
Saturday night, so we hope to have
one super-juicy column before the
year is over and the chances of
cither_ever_happening are about_
the same...

settrs MARSHALL and GEORGE
McCORMACK were shopping for
pick-ups in Charlotte Saturday ..
HARRY HUDSON broke numer.
ous hearts to and from Ashley Hall
but -continues to fail to even scar
the one he wants... ..

—_A new Casanova has sprung up
in our midst! KIDNEY OLIVER;
of soccer fame, proved his mettle
on the M-ball trip to Charlotesville,
Va. Seems he charmed some local
babe named MARTHA, who turned
out in full foree to see PRESTON
in action in the soccer game, at
which time the kid flexed his Atlas
legs and completely won the poor
girl’s_heart. Forbidden -by Coach
(G. T.) Brown te call on’ his flame
that night, our intrepid hero sal-
lied forth_at 5 ayem to 3t@ MAR=
THA. His progress thenceforth can
only be conjectured ....

Pat

BY

PAT RUDOLPH

SATURDAY NIGHT, NOV. 1, 1941

[E heard a prominent student at
Davidson say tonight: “This is
the last time I'll ever stay on the
campus. on Saturday night.” This
poor soul, like me, had probably
been among -the--small drab. group
at supper and had wandered aim-
lessly downtown to the post office.
noticed ¢he dust in his. box, sur-
veyed. Hugo's. and then started
hack -up -to-his empty dormitory
with the shouts of “Mooresville*’”’
“Charloite!” or “Troutman!” in his
ears. Across the silent windswept
campus he had trod, with nothiiig
but the light-flooded facade of
Chambers -to_brighten_the scene. A
dog_barked somewhere in the dim
“distance./ Eveh that one little den
in Chambers looked unfamiliarly
dark. The old gym steod gaunt
and repulsive in his path and he
shiveringly whisked by it. Along
dormitory row only one or two
room lights were on in each building.
As he turned into his hall his foot-
steps echoed and reverberated
throughout the long cavern of
silence. He fumbled for His key in
the darkness (which is common
to all Davidson dorms. especially
when Huffy isn’t around), Finally
finding-that ugly electric cord which
hung. grotesquely from-the ceiling,
he switched on the glaring one
hundred watt bulb. He surveyed
the room: -books strewn over the
rtesk, closet ovefflowing with dirty
clothes, shoes ‘scattered over the
floor, the ceiling a mass of :compli-
cated wiring, a half empty laundry
package nestled in the dingy, stodgy
second-hand understuffed — chair.
which was the sole reminder of the
outside world. Then he moved the
Hlaundry - package -and-a-few other |.
personal items from the chair, sat
down, and meditated. Joe had gone
to Lynchburg, Sam to Charlotte,
Jack to Asheville, John to Greens-
boro; and_Jim_and Fred to_Chapel
Hill. That was the situation. What
did he have to do? Well, there |’
was that Ooleology parallel to be

With ‘grim ‘determination our hero
gingerly removed one of the many
books from his littered desk and
sat down to read. Outside the wind
was whistling ‘and moaning; a car
careened to a stop behind the dorm
and a shout was heard: “Hey,
Bosco! Let’s go!"Then from sev-
eral doors down: “O..K., Pm com-
ing.” Then a slamming door’ and
hurried , footsteps down the hall,
and soon the noise—thrilling noise
—of changing gears. The last re-
maining light had been extinguish-
ed in the adjacent dormitory,_The_
bsilence was deafening. Another
Saturday night was roaring through
Davidson.

The above dark picture may be a
bit exaggerated and is certainly
not true of every Saturday night
at this place of learning. During
the fall there are ‘usually several
football games played on Richard-
son Fietd, and besides, there are
four dance sets during the year
which bring droves of girls to the
campus, but due to the fact that the
main events of the week end are
had in Charlotte, many boys who
would ordinarily go, dén’t—because
of the: added: expense and incon-
venience. .

For six days a week students are
going to classes, exercising or
studying in the -afternoon, drill-
ing, and -boning away in the lib-
rary. Saturday night should be
given over to some sort of recrea-
tion or change of scene or action,
if the student seriously feels that
he has no pressing academic work
that just has to be completed. Yet,
where can he turn for his recrea-
tion beside the surrounding country-
side (which according to one illus-
trious Davidsonian includes all the
territory between Washington and
Atlanta) and sometimes more) ?
Many have told me that they con-
sidered the social link the weak-
est in the Davidson chain of cul-
tures.. Brilliantly strong are the

read, that book report to write, the remaining physical, mental, and
History term paper, and those let-| spiritual links.
ters he had been meaning to write} 1 can hear —-it now. Someone

for the last few weeks. There was
much to be done. But was this the
right time to do it?

(maybe) after reading this dis-
course will say: “Well, why did
(Continued on Page Six)
