THE

DAVIDSONIA

N

Thurs, Fed. 6, isi
” ~~
’ ’ “grudging” only because any person dis- O tt t : S d
a - n e P,
The Mabidsonian Tiee-te aes an cid Gad ion aaa = cama pen Letter.to a Speeder
Bu hen I DAY’S
: . : < Sitée the time when the new rule came
Founded By the Class of 1915 wane eAgbT. : ‘ ie
v into being the committee has seen fit, after
Member ‘ :
hearing three student leaders discuss a peti- DIAR
Pera | ; : :
Associated Collegiate Press tion to ‘abolish-tirst-part-of-the togulation, | Y
Distributor of to suspend that part tor the present semest- L BY '
v G jileaiale Dieest er, in order to give the old system one more
° ; . Phere fore r this emester,.as- in BILL LEMMON Y
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” ; es e
st vears there will be no faculty limita-_ | we
Tartare eertiie t placed on the amount of time used by | Phare ech ood dope toflet go with this fast number. Jeff,
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY any fraternity during an initiation, or when t this week it is we'll term —Gilbet Colina of
Charlotte, North Caroling that initiation sha come Niter this se ficult , t! t 1 Casilda, Cuba> and Mutt as we'll
mester, unless some further action is taken, \ t it's a probl t il! call Peg Copenhaver of Bristol, T
SUBSCRIPTION RATES the rules daczo into effect By this action 3} Vin, put on the yest audition o the
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year . ; \ | 0) of virls| Conga ever witnessed by many of
the committee informed the student mem- fear seanilds preventcttats of (o thes dia
bara te Be epee palate = Ces Priraternities, that they wished to c bringi tor a splendid show! ' ! (No Neck
National Advertising Service, Inc. Know definitely whether scholastte deficten- Il} Bovkin,|) Normie, having no neck to crane,
College Publishers Representative ; ull ¢ <n, re ‘ Faery
420 MADISON AVE New Yorw. N. ¥ es which occur annually at about this time Nilantalecown: Ratt At the last Jumped on a chair to catch the
ALLE tli dlls h nd Dice sella ve due to time used in “Hell Week,” or minute before dance time big Frank | complete dope on the dance...)
\ \ at the Post Office at Davidson irt] Iso to that used in formal initiation. TISUTET Salaly Sbrvice Nivenomanaged to disentangle him. Of the lates that were pulled, one
LOFT SA : SIATORUS CC LST self from one of his two numerous! of the silent operators seemed to
eT The oy majority of fraternity men ISAW YOU barely miss a little boy on a tricycle this J dates Laughing Lanthan Latta} have gotten the best. Cam Wilson's
ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-C ? ETO ; % : 2 bs P Tapas read : ; 3 ;
SACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER elt that this part of the regulation was en afternoon and heard you yell, “Get the H— out of the surprised eyo uous vos that beau-|late-late was renning around her
tirely unnecessary to the good of the col- way! Don’t you know any d@etter than to ride in the ty contest oe he wi Hes on ji eeatgal house a rib octal
! “4 ‘ ’ ‘ 7 ss the hard ds. Drop me a cart with [hour preparing herself for ¢ no-
EDITORIAL STAFF lage anda hindrance tothe local organiza street?” He didn’t answer because he hasn’t learned to | '"* “sn adore ; P =e SNS SEAT aT Semen eres
} ; ‘ eae ise P : F “ ; . " : her address Lat tt ate 2 z
ee pene! tions which wanted to conduct their inttia- talk very well yet. So I’m going to answer for him. Shingvotovouwhoonttendad thei niovde G nbonk Grant hamewaeconte
‘am Caubl j ; A : ;
rears tions properly without haste at the tradi- ° No, the little boy doesn’t know any better than to ride Hig atfair inthe wemory-ate pros | ingonoh each and every glance
Fd Watsot al time of véar” These? reasons were his tricycle in the street. He has been warned not to, but bably wondering just why such} Enoch Stephenson, the blond biz
Se c ena | nted in petition, and were accept little boys don’t always heed warnings. Some adults don't men as Dicky Phillips, Stroup, Tom} zard was holding a beautiful black
ick Cc t ihrer, sche Scr , fi 75 ; ¢ TUN AY vein in / . widow as i ate “he F
Harwell’ Darby ed as valid*for the present, but final de either, especially traffic warnings; for example, tip one =| (auble, Noxious Normie and ped Be a if a date sir ieante
Bob Garvey ater ata : : : teens ‘ to hs EG ;Spent their time up in front of the|shpped his first date a flus Keangatite:
W. C, Plunkett cision was withheld, to permit actual ex dimiang the speed of au mobiles. saat diage. wateingc ihe, Vane THE KbbVe| fora secondary Gurberics WIRIER
is Mann perience to decide the value of the reasons I'm going to tell you something about that little boy. ire not, connoisseurs of music’ nor) Taylor—did his dancing behind the
fob Car 3 3} i Ty .
David Varnes : ieee i Whett He has a mother who endured considerable inconve- ire they autograph collector® but) end scenery... Vosburg caught an
Billy Barker Now it is up to the fraternitte ANAS nience, anxiety and suffering to bring him into the world. promoters of a‘ Lyn Gardner Club,|amoeba-limber for his partner
or not the suspended rule will remain: sus He has a father who has worked hard and made many (She was Bradley's bootiful blow! Frank Barker of Red River Valley
BUSINESS STAFF pended next year will be decided by them, sacrifices to make him healthy and happy. The supreme torch) Commander Vereen} fame, destinguished himself this
Tor Assistant: Business Manager | and the results judged by the committee purpose of their lives is to have their little boy grow up PUUCUnasDUC ADU Lye cnt id A SU Ape lA S peers alr
Dick Assistant Business nager \ll the fraternities should cooperate will i ef jbar used for decoration in the! bert Winn another of those silent
td Scott Crreulation Manager, isto’ rettii wb to be a usefut man. ; . i) figure out in a laundry truck idealers went on an-~extended ‘Y’
ae Wari Rhine ingly, fOr thy have everything te gait by Now stop a minute and think. If you should kill a Hott Harnwetl's: date is suimg—hintideputation by «returning . to. the
hi ucrtehton Collection ehtahaner it, and stand to be greatly inconvenienced child, how would you feel facing its parents? What ex- for assault as a result of the pro-{campus to catch breakfast Scott
Baxter Freeze Subscription Manager | and hindered in their future plans if they do cuse could you possibly offer Him whose Kingdom is longed “plumb"™ he laid on her in|Cooper’s date is quoted as saying
not plan carefully to avoid scholastic defi made up of little children? the ring ceremony. Beacon Bahn- | “that music got next to my sensi
Vhis ollege lite ciencies due to time takeh off for initiation Children, my hasty friend, were here long before son has caught up on. his -hand-Ltive “spots” and that her great
4 i yt ( 5 ; ‘ Iplay! a Z 5 as name as s
‘ 4 pinton With thought on the- partof the actives t bil thought of. All the auto- | play! granddaddy wa named Casanova so
we ! . i yutions or-com Ana UO FS cee) eles sy eit ! you or your automonile were tno 6! : ; } The Pan-Hell was worried about! Scott retaliated ‘by Saying his was
tior » it, provided s es not contain neither they nor their pledges will ec mnitirm mobiles on, earth are not worth the life of one little boy. the survival of Good Buddie Hite; |named Sonava Judging from the
{ giitory t to pro the opinion held by somte members of the We don’t know what that little boy may some day be. phe got hit in the face with a bucket! smiles on Greck Long's face Satur
t bscemity c All faculty that formal initiations cause agener But we know what you are, and it’s unimportant. We lof red paint after the Friday form-|day he got also well.
¢ ist 1 4 il let tn oin school work could get along without you, but we ean’t spare a single al Atte r two days now I udgy Earl Bellamy cut the Rumba
t e we sto b little b Aeret t . Raynor is still melancholy; his trosh|regent, Duck Martin, by having the
editar re the vart or all of any The fraternities themselves will give the ite boy on the stree " : rat brother Watson caught a late|ducks girl as his date... Thin Man
ontribution or con cati t | t ikl i } : y mn him, even though the fat man] Rogers slipped out of the bus door
answer to the question which was reopenes e d ih, ; Sp reie . a
: ke shipped to Atlanta several times |in the city Monday before McDuff,
only at their request ilm Report Car / to contact the kindergarten’ queen. | (any bus driver),! could) open the
. ; | At the last set of dances Ray} door but when the Thin Man had
I raternities l nder I Ire by DAVID VOSBURGH | McDaniels forgot one night to put his broad shouldered pika coat
1 a 1 ole shi tai so he “ tojin the elevat he ow: asked t
sation ia : : econ Jad Study ( ‘ondit ions Thursday Fobeusry 6th. Monday andcy Gesday a tail in i ks L up : i ie ele 4 sf us w a i. ri Fi
ed URE BUEN co Bhet AEN) ‘ / motto of absent minded pro eave it in the lobby So tha he ¢
; “Victory”: Betty Field and red Feb. 10 & 11 : RESO ee ra CCA an HCE aie APG
ToNt Committee with gard to tl Recently there have been comments on Beat atat ; oe Char y forgetting his vest this set £0 carry the nogmal toad,

; ; ; Lady Maher : betel d. . i Many of those dancing up the! Jumping Jo Shelton went on an
on Saime national tratern the poor conditions for studying which. pre seph Conrad's stirting story 14) Ruggles ; rthern end of the floor Saturday extended turkey hunt upon the ar
ty «chapter tused general disconcertion vail on nearly every dormitory hall through- | ?reusht to the: screeth inlan ex- a a = ' DEG MOUCe ee Ue TeuOrmi cll oOle iiss Wate atten emissingy (ht

‘ : $ , “re trip and this time aois her ;
n oy tratesese pyaaty——hes Ithougheanet } } hice bl oe ; citing, colorful) manner with\Verty screwy trip and this time tt ing with a rather tafl girl and/ figure Friday Good evening,
3 a See sec ieee ALEC LCOS aL CAC CO nti Kield giving an outstanding per-) Honeymoon with Brent. only on), lly doing La Conga when Will | friends t
much fas beer aid pe nly about the mat This has been present for Several years at formance as a girl weary of the | the trip she ! roman along | ane aheesanetrenenrnenrre ie
: ' ip | . ( 5: 413 *rederi nd tinally falls ja love with him, |
; WAGnien a ise } ee Sic ROM ea cs “s sordidness of her life. Frederick 2% |
¢ . ! CCAUSE examina least, butat seems to bec Ome Worse as Cac h | March thesmancionlives in: cali Frequent fiehts and comedy plus, | $
tons and a dance week-end loomed large passes tude on his own island and whofhelp te make this a very éntertain- Compassing
in the undergraduate mind : ; gives Betty shelter when she needs|ing show The romance is superb
Several things are directly responsible for itis very clever in his repressed) and the thrills come at the rate of
The new regulations were divided into this, the inain reason being that if one per- | role. | Onieiga SminutencWieiwan tatellss you Campuses
° : . ; : | | pete iWeedal }how it ended but will let you come
two parts, the first stating that formal fra- son does not wish to study, he cares little | Jungle savagery is introduced in f Self T ;
! ? ’ | ee Sy ia Sear : -p, {and see for yourself. The wheel
5 ; tae } imited tt } ! | batt E ithe villains, Sir Cedric Hardwicke, | , \ aul BY
ternit utiations must be ite ti : v he ‘Ise : » every as a 5 ; iwe E F : *
ermity imitiatio must Imitec ) it Whom else he bot 1ers wvery reason can Jerome Cowan and Lionel Royce, | Wwe nt ee and round, i nave
period between noon and midnight on Sat- be traced back to this. |who storm March's island “for hid-| it. fina ly : stopped it saic ave
‘ ‘ { a j.{ Spencer. So come on around and TOM CAUBLE .-
urday, and the second abolished Hell 1 nic dormitorie jally th jden gold, arouse savage vengeful- t maior nh nae
NS 2) 5 n some do ores, especially on e pnd Barn se ye my es or any show ne ,
Week" sin any shape or form Both were P - {ness in the hitherto peaceful Betty.

passed_as reforms to the present traditional
manner in which initiations have been car-
ried out tor years

Some men have been alarmed concerning
the new regulation, because they have felt

that

it might express a change of faculty
attitude—to-that-of disapproval of the f

But,

ternities without defending anyone,
it should be said now that the meastire,came
about as an intended

Improvement rather

than a future hindrance

The national offices

the

of nearly every tra-

ternity «in have

country frowned un-
time “Alell
Week", with its attendant hazing, and late-
ly many have de

against

some on

officially for quite
‘clared themselyes~officially
tact local
tives have found themselves without valid

it. Because of. this ac-
reason to present argument against that part

of the regulation

4

“Hell Week,” when thought of as a mere
sadistic desire to inflict humiliation, is in-
deed a practice which rightly has no part in
a fraternity. It has other very apparent dis-
advantages also, such as causing men to fall
behind in their scholastic work, along with
the vague possibility of physical injury
(This latter cause has been one of the prime
factors in the argument against hazing, yet
we continue to approve football, baseball,
and, other sports which are physically dang-
erous). :

There is one outstanding advantage of a
period of intensive freshman “training.”
When a group undergoes the various chores,
pranks, etc., together;-they are béund to-
gether in a bond common to those who must
undergo adversity side by side. However,
most thinking men will agree that the dis-
advantages of “Hell Week” outweigh the
advantages, and on this point the regula-
tion was received with grudging approval;

are freshmen
Who need to study more, there seems to be
* continual water fight,. scuffle, or other
loud merriment in the halls at all hours,
until late at night. It has been this way
tor years, and no doubt will continue to be

higher floors where there

That is the main reason upperclassmen
shun those halls when applying for rooms.

Another practice, more prevalent in the
upperclass dormitories, is the nightly “bull-
session.”” When this takes place in a room
where neither of the occupants wishes to
work, it is indeed harmless, but this is not
often the case. Just give a man time to
clear his head of other things, get fairly well
started into an assignment, and bang! The
door crashes open, while anywhere from one
to ten-boys pile in. No person wishes to be
so rude asto ask a visitor to leave, even if
he does have to study, and at times a visit
becomes embarrassingly long, until the oc-
cupant is forced to invite his visitors to the
Student Store in order-to clear the room.

No considerate person
would want to interfere with another man’s
work, but generally does not-think of his
visit in that light. If he did, he would note
whether his friend were busy, and if so
leave after whatever
might be necessary.

thoughtful and

short consultation

It is because some of their “friends” have

‘prevented daily study that many men have

“flunked out.” The average student can
surely name several. now who left after
exams mainly due to this cause. And there

will be others to whom the same fate will
fall—especially those who have barely made
the grade this semester.

Faculty or student rules can do little to
correct the situation. It is up to the stu-
dent body, individually and collectively. We
are all guilty now. But with considera-
tion, we need not be in the future,

Friday and Saturday,
Feb. 7 and 8

. “Son of Monte Cristo”: Joan Ben-

a

nett, Louis Hayward

This is a story very much like
“Mark of Zorro”. It Haywards
job to rid the small Balkan country
of-its wicked dictator, George Sand-

1S

ers. Hayward also has the pleasant
job of rescuing the beautiful Duch-
ess from the villainous George. The
hokum is spread a bit too thick
for credulity in places.

| week,
|

| Wedneeday, February i2th.
» “She Couldn't Say No”:
| Pryor, Arden, Cliff

jand Vera Lewis.

} movie

Roger
Eve Edwards
We don’t have much dope on this
that it
jromance that has plenty of laughs
|

and

except is a screwy

even more headaches for Eve

/ Arden. She is a girl that fell for one
boy after another until’ she began
too much. The story,
| centers around the many love af-

'fairs of this beautiful girl.

|
|
|

to say “yes”

~ Song Of The Sirens .

By JULIAN McCALL

Even though hearing several cri-
ticisms of Bradley, we'll still -have
to hand it to him. Most of these
critics say he played too much
“Boogie Woogie.” He figured when
everybody crowded around and
when he swung out, that

it, and that's the reason
coming back with more.
But if you remember, as soon as the
Pan-Hell contacted him, he chang-
ed to about a three-slow to one-
fast ratio coupled with a few Con-
gas, and everything turned out fine.

clapped
liked
he kept

we

On the whole L think this was one |

of the best bands we could expect
to have for Mid-Winters, and I
want to slip in my word of congra-
tulations to the Pan-Hell.

Bradley journeys down to Atlan-
ta this coming week-end to enter-
tain the “Rambling Wreck", and
on to "Bama for a mid-week stand,
followed by a session at Tennessee
the week-end of the 15th, then to
the University of Virginia the fol-
lowing week, and on back to the
Biltmore Hotel in New York City
from which he left for his Southern
tour.

Charlie Barret and Benny Good.
man have just completed a stand

‘at W. & .; Bob Chester-and Abe

j Lyman were featured at V. P. L;
| Barnett is on his own at Clemson
j this coming week-end; N, C. State

lis slated for Tommy Dorsey -on
| March 29th; Bob Pastor of “Let's
{Do It” fame at the Lincoln
|N. Y. now, but is scheduled for
southern tour sometime this spring;

in

Is

a

| Glen Gray is engaged out on the
| west at the present; Bobby
{Byrnes at the Meadowbrook; Larry
| Clinton is being featured out in the
| Windy city; Kay Kyser is in for
quite at the Waldorf; and

coast

a stay
Charlie Spivak, the up-and-coming

| ;

| band of the nation, is set at the
{Glen Island Casino.

| I imagine a few of you are wond-

ering what has happened to Mari-
on Hutton on Glen Miller's Moon-
light Serenade, She expecting
a “blessed-event” soon and> was
forced to retire from the airways,
but will back with the
shortly.

A few things we'll remember from
Mid-Winters are the bands rendi-
tion of “Strange Cargo” (Bradley's
theme), Ray McKinley on the
drums and vocals, Freddy. Slack
with the key-boards, and Will, him-
self, sliding with his old trombone.

is

be boys

;can

{less

ON THE DANGERS CONFRONT- |
ING THE COLOR-BLIND |
COLLEGIAN:

Let us first define the term, that
make up our subject as far as we
are able. “Dangers”
“pitfalls,”
“Stags”. In short it is a broad term.

We are
legian”

one might call

“hazzards”, “perils,” or

forced to pass “col-

that ac
curate definition beyond “one who

up

as a term defies

" “Color-blindness,”
ap-
in
colors that,

goes to collere

however, to be “a term
plied to a condition
which the of
differentiated markedly
than (*definition |
ot psychological KA.)
will but

seems

of vision

number

be is
normal.”*
courtesy

We
the
drawbacks

pass over lightly |

more obvious and common!
,

an ocular dis-

crepancy. Naturally the color-blind

to, such

undergrad is apt indeed to drive past |

red lights and wear tearsome neck-
but the
condition are indeed

ties, dangers of such=a

of more con-

sequence than those that come. im-.|

mediately to the mind
For instance, persons so afflicted |

are commonly addicted to wearing |

mis-mated socks. Now it is a notori-|
ous fact that collegians all attempt |
a studied nonchalance in both dress}
and demeanor and this casual sloppi- |
ness is not a thing to. be despised |
certainly. However, it is unanimous- |
ly conceded that socks that do not}

match so classified |

and a person habitually addicted to}
dressing in such a fashion is to be}

cl

are not to be

? |
ed as a reactionary and thus;
bz

nned from all dormitories save}
Rumple and third-floor Georgia.
It seems to be accepted that the}
red-green variety of . color-blind-
is the most common—that is,
people cannot differentiate
red and green than be-|}
tween any other such combinations. |
Now to mistake a red necktie for |
|

|

ness
more
between

a green one or to unwittingly pur-

loin another's overcoat- is a for-

‘embarrassing,

| for

giveable oversight, but the activity
of a week-end generally bring more
serious cases to view.

The popularity of red and green in
young ladies’ costumes makes this
red-green variety of color-blindness

particularly vicious. Its drawbacks
and embarrassing potentialties are
obvious when one thinks of the

numerous times a young collegian

/is called on to help his date remove

her coat or sweater or perform other
such chivalrous deeds. To unwitting-
ly help a young lady off with an
essential garment due to an inability
to distinguish these pri-
mary indeed
fatal,

between

colors would prove

costly, banal,
or what have you.
Again such a condition can tie in

very closely with a student’s scho-

lastic activities. For example, in
case the intellectual fires begin to
burn deeply, one cannot help to
satisix.these ambitions (for a B-

plus) by. complimenting. his profes-
sor on his dress. At least his facili-
ty in this is greatly hampered by
his imaccurate

A further recently
struck him when the army decided
to capitalize on color-blind individ-
uals and employ them as camou-
flage spotters while the B-plus boys
roar along at 350 mph. in pursuit
ships. -

vision.

blow was

The fact that ‘the red-green vari-
ety really amounts to yellow-blue
vision is not.even much help. In fact
it must make the world quite an
enigma at times! Thus it would be
a matter of practical impossibility
one’s to be like “a red
(if the mantle of poetic
inspiration should suddenly descend
on one.)

Let then that such
a collegian is fairly seriously handi-
capped and that not a few dangers
accrue to him and will retard hiny
in his quest for everything from
beauty to quality points.

love
red rose”

us conclude
