Thursday, March 6, 1941

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

Bankers Hear Irwin
At Annual Meetings

Says Restricted Production of
Goods Dangerous to Free
Enterprise.

“Recognition should be paid
to the ability of manufacturers
of the United States to pro-
duce goods at a\cheap price,”
said Dr. W. A. Irwin who was
the speaker at the annual din-
ner meeting of Group 9 of the
North Carolina Bankers’ asso-
ciation held on last Saturday
evening in Chambers,

J. P. Robinson was elected chair-
man of the group for the coming
year and also was, electéd to the ex-
ecutive committee of the State as-

sociation. Other * officers elected

were J. V. Lore, cashier ofthe Bank
of Davidson, vite-chairman; J. S.
Osborne, vice president and cashier
of the First National Bank of Mor-
ganton, secretary and treasurer.

Tendencies.

Dr. Irwin stated that the tendency
toward restricted production of eco-
nomic goods. and the tendency to
maintain rigid prices were danger-
ous to free enterprise. As a remedy
for the situation Dr. Irwin suggest-
ed that a full play of free enterprise
would permit the production of
goods at the price so cheap that
present incomes would go farther
than they go under the practice of
restricted production and the main-
tenance of rigid prices. He then
discussed the problem of: the tend-
ency towards class strife in our own
country. Hé also commented on
the part labor plays in the prob-
lems of the internal strife
country. 2

of our

Nearly 325 attended the banquet
from eight counties—Mecklenburg,
Lincoln, Catawba, Gaston, Burke,
Rutherfordton, and  Cleveland—
which make up Group 9.

Attendance.

North. Carolina banking leaders
who attended the meeting included
B. R. Roberts, vice president of the
Durham Bank and.Trust Company
and president of the North Carolina
Bankers’ association; E. A. Wayne
of/Raleigh, secretary of the State
association; J. C. Harris of Troy,
cashier of the Bank of Montgom-
éry and treasurer of the State asso-
ciation; and Mrs. Elizabeth Rawls
of the Durham Bank and_ Trust
Company, chairman of the Wom-
an’s division of the State associa-
tion.

rN

Mr. McDonald
And Glee Club

Give Program

Mr. James C. Pfohl and Two
Guest Artists Take Part
In Musical.

Davidson’s glee club under the
direction of Prof. Thane McDon-
ald presented a program of sacred
music at the regular vesper hour
last Sunday evening in Chambers
Auditorium. The Rev. Carl Pritch-
ett, pastor of the Davidson Pres-
byterian church, led the service,
Prof. James C. Pfohl was organist,
and Miss Frances Riddle, contralto
from Queens College, sang two
solos, while Merle T. Kesler, a
member of the Queen's faculty;
played the offertory violin solo.

The program consisted of an-
thems by the glee club, hymns by
the congregation, solos, and pray-
ers and scripture passages. The or-
gan prelude was “Prayer” by Boell-
Miss Riddle “Hold

man. sang
Thou My Hand” by Briggs and
“The Prayer Perfect” by Sten-
son. Mr. Kesler’s violin solo was

“Air” by Bach.

Anthems sung by the glee club
were “Salvation Belongeth to Our
God" by Tschesnokoff, Forsythe
and Kraft's “The Lord's Prayer,”
“Abide With Me” by Monk, and

“The Creation” by Richter. The
congregation sang the following
hymns: “Glorious Things of Thee

Are Spoken” by Haydn and “Rise
Up, O Men of God” by Walter.

Rev. Pritchett read Psalm 103 as
the call to worship. Other passages
read during the service were Psalm
51 and Romans 1:1-17. “Mr. Prit-
chett pronounced the benediction,
which was followed by the choral
Amen, “The Lord Shall Preserve
Thy Going Out,” by McDonald.

SCIENCE PLANS

The Board of Trustees at their
last meeting two weeks ago de-
cided to let the Chemistry De-
partment use the first two floors
of the new science building and

the. Biology Department the
' third.

If (f plans ti
to functi on hedul the

building which was begun last
fall will be completed sometime
during the latter part of June or
the first of July.

Negro Youths
Discuss Value
Of Learning

“Juvenile Delinquency” Will
Be Discussed By Group
Next Week:

The Colored Young People’s

PHIS HAVE PARTY

This gathering of Philanthropic Literary Society members and Queens Spectator Club members in the

S. P. E. House followed a joint meeting February 28 in Phi Hall.

The

formal part of the joi program

included a quiz, an original play, “The Lone Stranger,” poetry reading and an humorous book review. The
remainder of the evening was spent in singing, square dancing and “feasting” in the S. RB. E. House.
Philanthropic officers and dates were Mimi Bradham with Eldridge Brown, Louise Blue with Sandy
McEachern, Mary Webster with Bill Summers, Alice Young with Jim White, Gloria Coppala with sRus-
sell Smith and Dot Ballard with John Farrior.

Literary

|| ALPHA EPSILON DELTA

|
|

| At the last meeting of the Al-
| pha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-
|] med Dr. Mathews
a very interesting lecture
on basal During
|] the talk he demonstrated this
test on Tad Larkin. Afterwards,
he it, telling the
symptoms that such a test will

fraternity,
gave
metabolism.

interpreted

|| show.

F ounder’s Day
Banquet Held
By D.C. Pikas

| Dr. Robert H. Lafferty On

the History of the Fra-
ternity.
i]
} “Last Saturday, March 1, the Pi
| Kappa Alpha fraternity held its an
}nual Founder's Day Banquet — in

} Charlotte. Vernon Youngblood was

Societies

Hold Joint Meeting

|
Philanthropic and Spectator
Clubs Enjoy Quiz, Drama
and Poetry.

lhe Philanthropic Literary
Society and the Spectator Club
of Queens College held a joint
meeting Friday evening, Feb-
ruary 28,-11- Phi Hall. - Mem-
bers of both societies took part
in the program. Approximate-
ly twenty-five Queens girls
were present

The program
a quiz,

consisted of, first,
conducted by
Paul S. Crane Participants in the
contest were Louise Springer, Ida
Mae Walkup, Lawson Withers and
MecEachern

which was

Sandy
“The Lone Stranger.”

Next on the program was an old
entitled “The
hone Stranger,” Which Was author-

fashioned melodrama

ed by Russell Smith “and Chal Vin-
son. The tithe role was taken by
Jim) Werr, and female -leads — were
played by O. A. Dearman, and John
| Turner Sid’ Sample produced the
ound etteets, and Russell Smith
was the narrator

The Spectator Club's contribu-
tion to the program! was presented
by Lib Issacs .and Lucy Hassell
Several Phi members read poems

Which were written by members of «

the Spectator Club
Book Review.

The formal program was a psuedo
book Lib This
Was a humorous mock review. After
this, the two societies adjourned to
the IP Jo The.

remainder of the evening was spent

review, by Issacs

S fraternity house.

in singing,

Eldridge

(Continued on Paye Sis)
7 -

“Y’ Announces
Contest Date

square dancing, and as

Brown, the president of

Phe

Ping-pong contest is tenta-
tively set to begin Monday, March
lOeat the “Y" recreation room. This

contest is open to the student body

and there is no entrance fee

According —to Davis Phomas,

chairman of the contest committee,

the winners to. receive a_ silver
eu” He stated that Loch Hunter -
won the cup last year, but since
Loch has graduated,. an entrant
won't be up against a one time win

ner Thomas said that all those
Wishing to enter should sign up
down at the “Y" at their earliest

convenrence

Por further Information regard-
ing the contest see Davis Thomas,

Mac Bruce, or Dave Vosburgh.

DELUXE
| ICE CREAM

-QO-

BMAR AR GU

STUDENT STORE

group met at their hut last Sunday | toastmaster and introduced ‘the
night, March 2, at 6:30 for their | three principal speakers
weekly meeting. The subject of dis- cAm Ong THE GREEKS I De Boban i Lafferty was the
cussion is to make the boys and | first speaker. Mr. Harold Arbuckle,
girls think and reason for them- 3 1 Jr, who had been scheduled: to
selves.. Next week the subject dis- A touch of that good old spring} kett, and Robinson spent the week lres, of Thomasville, Georgia, was| speak, could not come Dr. Lat
cussed. will be “Juvenile Delin-| fever struck the chapter this week-| end in Aiken.and Ridge Springs, S.hemodelinitiate.Several-ahumni-forteedentt PAK with the
quency.” end. Brother Holt Barnwell was|C. gBrother Mobley is still at his | from Charlotte and members of the| founding sof the fraternity. at the
These programs are led by Bill] Operating, per usual, between Bur-} home in ,Florence, S. C., recuper | faculty were present. After the in UIVeRNlE@ Of Witeliimcande ote the
MacLaughlin and according to Bill| lington and Greensboro while his] ating from the measles. jitiation all adjournd to the house| history of the chapter here at Da
the young people are taking part in| little broter Joe flew by plane to} Guests of the chapter this week-| and enjoyed a feed Vvitlson. In 1869 five Davidsoti’ stu
them very enthusiastically and show| Washington where he attended ajend were Misses Maude and Elva | }dents received their charter” from
much interest. ASS + convention???? The, bravest trip| Shuford of Hickory, N .C. The} Kappa Sigma | Virignia Alpha Although it) was
At the request. of the colored; Was made by Brothers Wheeler, and} chapter is proud to announce the | Top: news of the week trom ea overruled by the Board of Trustees
choral group the music department! Cushman and Pledge Milliken to} pledging of Lyman Parrigan of the) Siojia Jodve is that King Karl Jo. | in three monthsat that time the
and Phi Mu Alpha allowed the; Blowing Rock with their skates on| sophomore class.; lenneahibeCenniad in theochemistry fit pavidson chapter was “the econd
group to hear the concert by the| their backs. Saturday night found aa ifn the third consecutive week-end | founded in. the country. On Nov
Siberian Singers at Chambers au-| Brothers McAfee, Schmidt, and Phi Gamma Delta. However, most of tht other |.30, 1894, it was refounded and has
ditorium Tuesday night, March 4.| Spike Mebane operating in and| Judging from the lonely boarding! Brothers were on the jump as} lasted ever since
Several pictures of the colored around Winston-Salem, Brother house last Saturday night the Phil usual Brothers Kelly and Yarbor Mr—Jack “Beal was the next
hut and some of the activities led| Garrou went to his home in Val- Gams must have considered it the} ongh took in the Friday night game) speaker who gave history of Vika
by Davidson students were made} dese. Brother Neisler spent his} best policy to get away from the} at the Southern Conference Bas | Ball and how it originated
last week by the publicity depart-| week-end in the MULES. Brothers Davidson campus and enjoy thent | ketball Tournament at Raleigh. Also, Casey Jones was the final speak
ment of the college. They are toj Raney and Jack Philips tied their] selyes in more interesting places | going, East were “Stirdy” Joh» | er. He told of the fraternity as it is
appear in papers throughout the} apron GUN $3 together and double The house was equally deserted! Purdie to Fayetteville and Diek | today and its relation tothe student
state along with a story of their| dated in Charlotte Saturday night.!’Sunday night indicating that they | Phillips to | Laurinburg Pledge | body of Davidson and other student
activities. Brother Walker WATE GEEY of the} thought it best to stay away as long | Jimmy Davis went up to Lynchburg, | bodies all over the country. Casey
ween Om Jordan to Mt. Gilead. Brothet as possible. The Fijis who remained] Va., Randolph-Macon, being the oly | brought up the war situation in ref
Thompson dated in High Point.| here at Davidson carried on in fine| ject of his pilgrimage. Bill Loftin erenge to the fraternity. Not only
Sam ples F oO Ip pepenators m Charlotte included style, however, in spite of the ab-] finally wound up in Gastonia after Continued on Page Sir)
Bee ae ey ae sence of their wandering brothers.| a series of extensive operations’}-
owell, — Ranking, Summerville, 3 eR ee finite in fi en
Blazers Dwelltasice: upcnuch | Wetsh. and) yee week cade RFAATE PRT see erirta|| NOTICE, SENIORS!
seams Bane Winn, Brother Shaw privately| Smith headed for Columbia, S. C..| burg, and Dick Smith to his home
a iv Owace Gunirman eteiheceene operated on the campus. and MaciOtts again chose Lynch-| in Elkin. Brothers Hipp» and Car- | biter cli the senior class
fone la eepeGaniin tleestoratheaniniNe _We are proud to announce that] burg for his destination. Dan] ter went with the wrestling team | will meet in the basement of
cata class aniiounces that all cams George EMCNIEY was pledged dur- Hodges, Arch ‘Taylor, and Shorty | to Virginia and Maryland Chambers wang for a smoker.
pus clothing firm representatives ing the past wces abel ee Hs CRUD ee iG reateds tiesvoye (etd aside ae ca pion Maas ct Ee
PURE aUDINiteantelentasthe Gorimntt: <r == while Brothers Nimmons and Darby} the books long enough to take in) purpose is to elect the officers
fA OVETIO DU IUE Sigma Alpha Epsilon. set this week's record by working | the night life of the Queen City | kas the coming <class day exer-
Owens says that only a few of the} Pwo of the better-known sports-} 11 a trip to: Oia anare aces sere Restor
representatves have submitted their) ™e" of the campus, Beacon Bahn- tachment left the ol CEES Friday Pi Kappa Alpha | Officers and honors to be
samples,.and that in order to get {30° and Tally-ho Lucas, spent the} for Nashville, Tenn : This Brown | All the chapter stayed here this | elected and bestowed CU that
THER VaTINa Und erawWavathercorinit: last few days fox hunting along the cluded : Ralph Williams, W mston| Wook for the annual founder's Day || uae will be: valedictorian, sa-
tee has had to set a deadiine...Sam-| moors—nof * Pinchurst Brothers Paylor, and Harris McReynolds Banquet Saturday night at Thac || lutatorian, historian, poet and
ples may be turned in to. either George Grantham and Tom Cauble Frank Barker left tast week on the! Kers in Charlotte. Most — of the |] orator.
Owens = Dick Kelly, or John Crich-| sPent part of the week-end in} trip with the wrestling teams) Cjjarfotte alumni and many alumni!
ton, the three juniors who compose | Greensboro with Brother Ox. All- Brother Jay Bolin traveled to Ra-| from Concord, Albemarle, Gastonia
the committee. cott, and later returned to the cam-] leigh. ‘ a ol and other nearby towns were pres- | TRY a
In addition Qwens expressed the| PUS with two dates. Brothers Le- Mr. and Mrs. A. L Larson were leu for the celebration Because | ’ \
wish that*the blazer could be de-| fever went from Davidson to~Da-} guests of the chapter during the | of the illness Saturday of our guest} JOHNSON S
cided on in time for wearing them vidson via Virginia (twice) and| week-end | speaker, Howard Bell Arbucklg, | “THE BEST”
this: spring. In the past seniors Greensboro, rumor has it. Brother ; Ir, National Alumni Seceretary of | BARBER SHOP
have been able to Wear them only in Ebo Andérson escorted a party of : Kappa, Alpha. | Pi Kappa Alpha, several informal
the spring of their senior year, due Brothers and pledges to a party Most of the brothers stayed on} talks were given. Dr: Ro HL. Laf-]
to delay in deciding. with six beautiful girls and a large | the campus this week-end, and those} ferty of Charlotte spoke’ about the

Owens said that the blazers for
the class of '42 might not be in the
form of regular tailored sport coats
as has been the custom in the past.
The present committee is consider-
ing the possibility of recommending
that the rising junior class adopt
sport jackets. He added that jac-
kets would be more practical for
campus wear and would probably be
more popular.

——-— --@

P.D.Kaperonis

Last Saturday afternoon Paul D.
Kaperonis passed away in a Char-
lotte hospitalafter an illness of
two months.

Mr. Kaperonis was the owner and
operator of the Little Pep Sand-
wich Shop which is located here at
Davidson. He originally came from
Greece in 1909 where he was born
June 1,.1891. He lived in Charlotte
for a few years after which he
moved to Davidson in 1932,

He is survived by his wife, two
sons, four daughters, four broth-

ers, and one sister. Two of his

{Continued on Page Six}

stuffed turkey being the principal
attractions. Those who went along
were Brothers Lee and Wilson and
Pledges Port and Douglas. Brother
Queenie Bob Smith and Buddy
Carson went over to the Unfriend-
ly City for a visit. Most of the
pledge brothers remained on the
campus over the week-end “driv
ing” in preparation for initiation
Conspicuous by their presence were
Pledges Groves and Bruce.

Pi Kappa Phi.
The majority of the Brothers re-
mained on the campus this week-
end, but a few managed to stray

away for a few days. Charlotte
claimed Brothers Erskine Parks
and Clarence McArthur, while

Brothers Paul and Tommy Bum-
barger and grad Larkin went to
Hickory. Brothers Covington and
Niven have had:an extended visit
to New York. Gowdy managed to)
get over to Raleigh, and Armstrong
journeyed over to Asheville. Ged-
die Herring went to Belmont, and
Don Williamson took in High Point
and Greensboro. Bobby Gaither
spent the week-end at his home in
Newton, and Spartanburg attracted
Joe Eve. Brtohers Watson, Plun-

Knox Building

Expert and Efficient Watch Repairing and Cleaning
\

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP

DAVIDSON, N. C.

who did go off didn’t go far

3rother Pinkerton took the big-
gest trip by going to his home in
Franklin, Tennessee. He still hadn't
come back by Monday night, in-/
cidentally. Brothers Paterson and
Speas went over to Winston, and
3rother Mitchell spent s&me_ time
in Greensboro. Brother Harris also
took an extensive trip, going home|
to Roxboro.

Pledge Brother Bachmann took
a trip to Statesville. Brothers Jef-

founders of the fraternity and also
about the chartering of Beta chap

ter. Then Mr. Jack Beall of Char-
lotte told us about the beginnings
of the Pika Ball at State. Finally
Casy Jones talked about some of

the problems of the future. Brother

Vernon Youngblood presided as
toastmaster :
srothers Ables, BrinSon, and

| Browning: took part in the South

[Continued an Page 'Six)

fries and Ansley went over to Char-
lotte for the week-end, and Pledge
Brother Council spent a very stren-
uous time in the library over there

On-Friday night the-Chapter had?
its formal initiation and Mac Jeff-

A. S. BROWN

General Merchandise
DIAL 2001

DAVIDSON? N--¢

ENJOY GOOD FOOD, AND PROMPT SERVICE
AT

THE LITTLE PEP

Davidson, North Carolina

Get Your Barber Work
Where It’s Done Best

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

DAVIDSON, N. C.

GROCERIES
EVERY LINE
of
HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM
& COMPANY

[

o

117 GARLA

rinting
[5_OUR BUSINESS

CHAD

For A Representative

6300 Dial .

CWO

STANDARD PRINTING CO.

(CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

Printers of ‘The Davidsonian’

6309

ND.COURT

