- Thurs., Jan. 30, 1941

T

HE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Davidson’sCivieClub

Helps Negro Center»:

Sets Aside Large Sum To Seal. Snell U: U n a b le Clarence McArthur, | Mac

David McLean Commun-
ity Center

oe

Coach McEver Supervises
Completion Of Plan

Lo

‘To Talk Here

hSends Letter Of Regret To
Student Body,

Two WPA _ workers, Thomas

Davidson's Civic Club,
of ladies of the town,

composed
recently set

aside a sum of $75 to seal the David.

Melean Community Center. Coach.
Gene McEver supervised the com-
pletion of ats project.

This buildme. duilt last year for
the colared people of the commun-
ity, was jinanced trom the proceeds
of ‘the 1939 YMCA Christmas gift
fund.

shaw, and Lester Hunsucker, have
been secured to. help in the work
with the negroes. They are at
present conducting a survey among

the colored people to determine
what kind of instruction they de
sire ‘besides that which is being

aifered by the YMCA and the Lad-
ies’ Auxihary of the Davidson Pres-
byterian Church.

Classes in adult education and a
Boy Scout Troop are now sponsor-
ed by the YMCA. Efforts’ are be-
ing. made to organize a Girl Scout
Troop, -classes in cooking and sew-
ing Wd TATE ST SiTTING

classes

iT

The two young colored men ‘plan
to institute a nursery to care for
.hildren of pre-school age whose
mothers’ work and are unable
look aiter them properly
Pluns_are also deing considered
for an employnent agency, w which
ladies of the Cwie Gub
to tind jobs for unein-
‘ployed colored boys of the commun-

ity

the
cooperate

°

Courses Will

Start July Ist
For Officers

War Department Announces

Training corey

According to information receiv-
ed from the War Dep artmen, three
months courses will be established
at the Infantry, Calvary, Field and
Coast Artillery “schools beginning
July t, 1941) forthe purpose of
training Officer Candidates.

“To be cligible one must be either
a warrant officer_or an enlisted
man-with at least six months active
federal service prior to submitting

Application. The maximum age limit)

_ 18736 years inclusive.

to

will,

“Tahe TY"

J. Ray Snell, who was selected to

be supported as a teaching mission.
ary in, China by Davidson College,
and who was planning to thank
thé Davidson Student Body in per!
son, will not, be able to come and
speak because he has accepted a
three-months rush job’ in connection
with national defense. in Boston
Mr. Snell wrote an open letter to

the student bady whieh read as{ 8Pare time, and | Brother Niven
| follows. . spen te week-end ats Home in
“ - Albemarle. B or Don Wilham.
| have recently learned of your Mbemarle, Brother no William

desire tully to support a young tis-
sionary in China, and wish to con-
gratulate you for this increasing
interest in oreign missions.

“L feel greatly honored in having
been selected by the Mission Board
to be supportéd by Davidson Col-
lege. And To know chat my work
among students in’ China will
more worthwhile and more appre-
ciated because it. is made -possibte
by students in America.

“Although present tension in the
fast has detained us, are
Ansiously waiting our date ‘ot sail
ing. Meanwhile. it has seemed ad-
visible to accept temporary work
Boston width Consulting
neers: and due to the nature and
urgency of the work, IT regret to
say that Loam nowy unable to thank
you in person

far, ea

in

“While the rest ofthe world is
engaged in war and destruction the
Chinese Christian Colleges contrive
to bring hope to their people
quote trom “Time? of November 4.
1940; ‘In the course of 75 vear
the price of one U.S. heavy er
(about $15,000.00, LL S Pro:
tants have built 13 colleges in Chi

Eleven of the 13. colleges have
had to leave their pre-war campuses,

Jut not one’ campus has been aban-
doned to. the Japanese: under U. S.
and Chinese control, they are being |
used@for relief and recanstruction |
Programs for China's war-struck
milliows. Despite their record enrall-
ments in the new schglastic loca.
tions, the Christian Colleges have
been able to take only one in tive
wf ‘qualified applicants. But ‘even
with makeshift equipments and a
great Hitk of books, all are giving |
full courses... If China need enyi-
she asks Hangchow Christ-
{ian College for them, aud gets them.
, “J amulooking forward to oppor-
tumties_of knowing you in a per-
sonal way so thattogether we may
better | bring Christ's message’ to
the Chinese Students.”

To

neers,

Over $600 has been collected for

The number of candidates, to, be+rest will be collected aS SOON us Pos -

trained is limited. All appointments
as officers will be in the lowest
grade in the arm, in. which school
training is given. Candidates will
not be limited to men serving in the
arms establishing schools, but will
. be drawn from all arms and services
(less air corps) in approximate pro-
portion to the strength of the sev-
eral arms and services to the stren-
gth of the arm gas a whole.
When it is practical, candidates
will be permitted to select the arm
-which training is desired.
Every applicant for training as
“an officer candidate must agree to
serve one year extended active duty
.if commissioned in the Officer Re-
serve Corps upon completion of
the course. ; ~

sible.

?°

o
Lite Katherin
thing | shan't tell.
Crusty Bachelor:
dear.
as, you grow older.”

I know some-

_UNever_ mind,|

a

be.

Engi-|

gilt. tund “so tar, and We] Arnold went back home to Greens

Pi Kappa Phi

Due, the finishing of exams,

| very iew Pi Kapps were found on
| theceampus last weék-end. Charlotte
claimed Hrothers Geddie

to

Herring,
Morris,
band) Erskine Parks, while Hickory
vbeckoned to Brother Paul Bum-
barger and ledges Bob ~Huychins.
Lumbarger and O. D. Ev.
Pledges McAllister. Armstrong
‘and Rymer made an_extended tour
through Mooresville, Statesville,
! Hickory. Newton, Maiden, Lincoln=.
ton, and ‘ended up at Gastonia. Bro-
thers Mobley, Hite. MeCall, and
Miller - journeved_to_ their_respee-
tive homes in Florence. $. C. South
Carolina also summoned Brothers
Hipp and Plunkett and Pledge May-
nard Watson to their homes
) Greenville, Aiken, and Kidge Springs
respectively. Pledge Gene Head!
mmade-a trip to Asheville during his

_Fommy
Lans.

son miunaged to take in High Point,
Greensboro, and Winston-Salem
trother . Garvey

went to Winston-

Salem

Phi Gamma Delta

The brothers of Phi Gamma Delta
traveled wad wide diriig: the
past week-end, celebrating the end-
ing of examinations and taking one
last trip before the start of a ‘new
A) detachment “oY five
made an expedition to the city of
L&nchburg ; included in, this group
were brothers Frank Barker, Mack
Otte, Winston Laylor, Hatris Mi
Reynolds. and Pete Cavert~ P
ton Olivet chose to" recuperate and |
forget the nightmare of exam week
ala visit in Richmond. Chase Bre-
to Charlotte

lar

semester

retired for w

diy on so

nizer
Raleigh was the awveek-
destination oof Dan Hodges
while Shorty Partish atid Arch Tay-
companied on their Win-
stonSalen pilgrimage by Earle Bel-

latin. Vledge brotherob Crowell!

went to Lexington Phe usual num-
r

end

lor were

ber of Phi Gayis Tdid their part to;
ward swelling the week-end crowds
Charlotte and lew to
Spend a wretched time here on the
fcampuy. .
Phi Welta
in announcing that Hank Crane, of
the sophomore
pledued

on “ chose

Gamina

chigs, bas been

Kappa Alpha

The week-end after examinations
has always beeneverse popular with
the brothers for wild-hares to the
far corners of the Sunny South, and
{this year was certainly no exception.
\ecording to Brother Davis Tham-

Among THE GREEKS.

in},

whe and “thee othet: buys stayediL

on campus this week-end.”
Viedge Bréthers Burke and- Gat

out suuthern North Carolina, touch-
sing at the points of Gastonia, Bel-
thetit harlotte-and-Queens.-Broth
ers Sandifer and Speas did the dra-
matic and went>to their homes in
Lowrys, S. Cand Winston-Salem
respectively; while Brother Dick

ville, S.C.

— Brothers. Wallace, Watt... Belk,
Coppedge, and Mclean spent the
time dating und- gadding about
Charlotte, as did also Pledge Broth-
Paddock and Bachman, who

ers

You'll get over that habit| had as his nursemaid ‘Brother Pink | Otinavcolleges, startling in Spartans

erton’ Brother Washburn’ went ‘te

Thurs.-Fri,

. Jan. 30-31

“NORTHWEST MOUNTED POLICE”

with Gary Cooper

x

Saturday,

and Madeline Carrol

February }

7 “LITTLE NELLIE KELLY”

Featuring Wil

—J. 0. JONES, Inc.

Mon.-Tues., Feb. 3-4

“PHILADELPHIA STORY”

with Katherine Hepburn —

ld Bill Lemmon

lev.
‘}mond,

cill took an extensive fling through- i
Wilson

Work. Progresses As

New Structures Rise
Library

~Addsi 1.000 Yards Of Concrete
Four Volumes

Raleigh, while Brother Turnage and | went 10 Kenalla, S. C., to visit
Pledge Brother Beam went to Lum-j some relatives: Budweiser Wilson
berton . got all the way to Spartanburg be-

Brother "Bevo" Royster, true tof} fore the week-end wisOver, and
form. stopped over “ts ‘GféensBoro| Potent Tate went home to the un-
both coming from and going to his }iriendly city. Rop Rogers and Ed
Wome in Oxford. Brother Joe Floyw- | Lucas adjourned to Greensboro ov-
ers drove-to Duke and to Chapel) er the week-end, Beacon Bahnson
Hill, Brother Sprunt was also aty played host to pledges Buck Fu-
the University of Nerth Carolinu. | qua and Jim_ Clark Saturday and

Goes Into New Library,
Science Buildings

Pledge Brother om we “et home] Sunday. Salem and horses proved Howard Spring’s “Fame‘ls The. Contractors Predict Completion
to Sumter; S.-C. while\ Pledge | the twin lure in this case. OF to Spur” Among Additions —y “By Graduation
Brother JetiFies visited in Green¥-| Greenville rushed those twWoveter- - 7 _

ans, Pledges Mac Bruce and Rip-
Hunt, Pledges Harris and Be-
thea went home to Wilmington and

Dillon (S.C) respectively. Ten High

boro. Pledge Brothers Abbétt and]
McWilliams were found in Char-
lotte und Statesville.

The brothers welcomed back this

The library has ae qnired the tol- Si kt |! fall

lowing books since Christmas: Fame . ince he pegan ear y last fall,
ve . a .

is the Spur by Howard Spring, Man | 'eh One thousand yards of concrete

With a Bull-Tongue Plow by Jesse fave heen poured in constructing

per

. ; ~ = aaa . the new library__an hemiste:
week Brother Jimmie Houston, who | Douglas returned to Davidson camp- | Stuart. My Name is Aram by Wil- i i ra - d a emistry
. 4 ae . . a . vuiidings. old conerete figures
has returned to Davidson for the | us in time for the week-end. Prev-| liam) Saroyan and Sapphira and the thi eons } . d ‘5 8 ft
. . j tas Ries ix wvigusan ags oO
tously he had been ill in Chester, * ° ous 8

second semester after working dar- Slave Girl by Willa Cather.

cement have been used.

ing the first one. The chaper alsoyS C.. ior two weeks. Another ail-] Howard Spring, the author ot the .
welcomed Brother Willard Couneill,/ing pledge, Rabbit McGeachy, also| best seller My Son, My Son, has} Nothing spectacular has happen-
rbrother of Pledge George Councill.| returned from a bout with the Thu] produged another stirrme novelinped in the comstruction, and awork

who comes to us from Beta Kappa] Pledges Preyer and Milliken teach-| Fame is the Spur. Mr. Spring again | Wil continue steadily until the job

Chaprer of Kappa Alpha at the|ed home base in the “Barle” Satur- [tells a personal “pery with a his s tnished around. commencement
siveesity—oi—Maryland—in_Baltiz{diy_airernsgan and returned Sun.| torical background. The mareh ‘of | inte. “Fhe home-made construction

At 9) ny ann ee Bede tter—Gre en pistes ida die Tush cst Dae SICA vith is hin “cable told=

Beta Theta Pi 8 Asteaggled on Monday morning on|stury in Fame is the Spur. tamer. ing. aur the pladurn has attracted |

Vhe brothers scattered every. | the Dawn Patrol Plalge Bogh Port} Bbgaycross, Viscount Handrorth wash) mney atten don ats Anything else.
Where lo see, if their latenes wereeiailaatsceavandering round Win-pile suave iman-etthe hone in-lgeL Tals | sitdents wape, the thirty
coming a dancing this week-end. /ston with his elder brother's ROTC| lead, but few people realized the Ped met on the job are kept busy

carting fund after-load of fresh con-
and throwing hundreds at,
blocks to be whisked up to
‘the-second tlour ur root

Trenigndous toree which mativared
Nis rise to & prea place. “Mr,
depicts: has Nre
san antomaten

Man With a Bull-Tongue Plow.
is #the
lide,
Verse

Brother Walker spent the past week
burning up the road between “here
and Mi. Gilead but) she's“guu the |
ilu. Brother Rankin spent his time | .

between Charlotte and Mt Gilead Due to the fact that EXAMS Were
Brother “Howell: was. in Ellerbe: over and alsy that the flu bug took
Brother Thompson to High Point; ws tall in our Trotherhood,
Brother TL Barnwell between Bur- ae pale ae wipers . wnper
lington ind Greensboro; Brother ee night. We hen ' clam
Garrou in Vpldese: Brother Spike!" Menboring their names.
Mebune Burlington ; Brother! Raynor wert to Adanta, “Robin--
Schimut to Charlotte with) Pledgelo™ TOR Tit Chaper rn
Welsh; Granny Sharpe to Burling: Stereiion Lo Chdliston, Vereen to

draped about him, He said it) was
we costume “party, -

Phi Delta Theta

Spring | Eh e le.
uy at anan and nor] cider

Progress
poetical .
the

it

tural; . .
in] Work has progressing as

the planned. and collége authorities

The pstate tliat the buiddings will easily
c!

: ince

live vad) display their | build rT \ Sin d

deep-tlowinw Character to the read puithings will not be eceupie

ne cereal tb bed bttdeneebed be obtetnerctht dhend woe falleo dF Quen

jbotind-witlt Lis head cut olf to try?
if

depiction
South Lhis Story
pouring forth ot
cmonons ot a lsentucky tarmer

att 1
: been

there in c

at is

be tinished:- by commencement.
I the.

characters

vrs

My Name is Aram ind ag, anthio-

. 4 : : . : to tinish ata , ate
teh: Brother Shaw to Fayetteville | Santa, aad Brothers Reinhardt) tog ‘ot stories abaut au anuiigrant | ° any carly d te 4
trother Taylor to Charlotte: Pledge {ied Sproul convaleseed in—einkle Penrod” or Pom Sawyer. It is vers Materials have ‘been coming mn
{White to Graham: AL Winn tu/aud Charlotte respective. Broth-] pleasant and delighuul reehae, yet steadily, Cament tlotks tor rein-
Treenville, Pledge Chandler Qp] et Girter Wt as ta as Charlotte.) iy also a evivid picture on tle are j lereement_fmestonc. footings, and,
Sumter, and the usual crowd tof tehtanon to Maxtoay Kudolph to ficadons stragule cnewuntered ~by | Utich torte wills age beginning
Charlotte including. Summerville, |“Ssbevdle, while Brothers Westall iiimierants in becoming: American vio pile up aul over the south end
Church, Bryant, Baird, MeAfee. and and MeLeau convaleserd in then ved. the stares sateoticlly auto fd the cpt, se that students have
Pledges Upehureh Welsho and be] oopestive homes-an Asheville AU] biawinphicsd 7 ite Tchouse: between scaling mouh- ©
POPhillips Lent Brother Boykin zipped down} Sapphira Sod the Slave Gira, ad SENS vt Fock or swimming through
Kappa Sigma he GWT Wille, Chapiasi ty Spat picture ot skive bt and the personal tamature’ lakes caused by recent
Uhis past weeh end round must of tanbung MeGerchy to beyou, Hob Land etNal probletas enpeudered by | Pls ta vet to ther boarding hous-
a ale sD dye . . v - wn + nay oF
the Sigmas hone relaxing frou their [Me te Kaleigh and the Phi Delt] ihcueemition The Story ns a déar O° hese smrallancuntains will soon
rather studigus piastiiwo weeks, | Hedse dance tn Chapel THI The} aid impersonal presentation or a, chute disselvang because . outside
which as vou may recall was exam remiaming sophomores scattered 00} problem ~ we Vbrich. wallswill-start_rising—within
period Charlotte and other tricndless cities. : “the nest We f>
a Viedge AFeher went up thar in the Dé * . AG
Kidewh us St. Mary's attracted 2 a Mek éputations ibrary
takes pleasure |: : had oc ‘others [Mleuntings to Bryson City, Melver -o. . .
ARES [leas a aber a ieee an a orners | ‘to Bristol, Waidlaw to Spartanburg -On January 19 John Farvior | oat present the library, which is
dey weee_brat aers Welly idk aud, ; : : _ . and Tom Brown spoke to the |:adjacent te the present chemistry
Purdie and Pledge? Hooth, Uendrix, #9 Pledge Ulayes spent His spring ‘
sees an bagae . , young people of the Second |} biunidinw, has.g. better start than the:
and Brewer Vrothers Cooke, Man- | Y8e#tion prematurely at tis hom : . 4 A a
: Mi i Lyman, S.C. We-hs Presbyterian Church in Charlotte [jlatter ft. two imam ‘floors have
ning, and Conyers ent to Spartan. |) Lyman, S.C. Wehave no dope on |] he . : ‘ :
. \ R the 3 . . : . in connection with a series of | Honp-—bren—ponred: the roof slab
burg ‘tor their rest. Brothers Yar-; ie Other members ot the tresh . oO . «
; st Ba te , ard foreign missions programs which |] las just been finshed, and the
brough and Marsh aad Pledges," chins xcept that they partied nits

. dates . . ate that group “has been sponsoring. |{ basement is in progress of comple:
Ames and Simmons were in High sande celebrated allaver the state, . ‘ Pp

—NEW SPRING-
SUITS
GALORE
$25.00 $30.00 $35.00

and Some

$40.00 and Up

J. 0. Jones,Ine.

COME IN EARLY
Naor

[AVIDSON

—DAVIDS

Excellent epportunity_ for +

interested alpp

BOX 200 —

DOUBLE FEATURE—Wednesday, February 5

“RANGERS OF FORTUNE”
“DOOMED.

with Dick Graham

POST TION AVAILABLE —

CARAVAN”

THEATRE

ON, N. C.—

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

To an enterprising Freshman, as campus representative
ef a firm already established at Davidson.

advancement. All sincerely

licants write—

DAVIDSON

Youngblood, Neill, Sink, and Par-
sons, and Pledges Hodges and
Clark

. . . t
Point. MeCoy and Finley were in All the brothers are looking for- Jim ere and Roy Proston “poke ae on ne tyes floor af the
North Wilkechoro, in spare rime ward with glee to the coming week _ the same series ; pet Sun nye jenny suitding has been: poured
ducing exatns. The week-end iound end Flushes have been numerous, Phese programs will e con- Both the buildings gre .tu have ele-
a ON * but everything will’ come out all linued on Feb, 2 and Feb. 9 vatars, the chemistry «building hav.
snechsbar “ ith We usual quota m fight in the and Paul Crane, John Farrior, and [fing aw trcivht elevatur and the lib-
Pily, Carter, MeGhee, and Grims. ° ' a ~ ~ Hank Crane presented a mis- flrarv, a passenger cle vator
Thompson went -home to Rich Sigma Phi Epsiton sions program to the young peo- |] a -
Dick Smith to lelkin, Pinky] _ piggy Doug Homer. Last seen in] } ple af the First) Presbyterian . Details —
to Lowell, Loft to {ats Statesville Destination unknowg. Hy] Church in Winiton Salen on Naturally” utetior details will be
tonia, Tl Coogef te Hendersunt jound plete return to the SPE|) Sunday, Jan. 26.- On Wednes- | utile different although the outsides _
Philips to Laarimburg and Squires house As for the rémainne~ Sig day night. Jan, " John Farrior, sill Ve Stnular. Poth the buildings
tu Greenville, — Eps they returned to the, campus ‘Sim Kerr, and Joe Hopper con- “wll Harninize with Chambery ci
It was Beester Burwell and Ah with-long tales of exciting week-|! ducted a program: on missions at “General atid will be—approximately
Taylor who fook the real. details.| oyus ater exains. Brother Bell ac-|] the Myers Park Presbyterian the same ‘height. as®Chambers, al-*
Jeester went ‘ty the inauguration companied by Dudley and_ Davis|] Church in Chartotte. thongh the-wround is.dbout six feet
WAAL West Besint Gi arsed} —n—Hurlington—a nd fuser.

_Pi Kappa Alpha

As soon as exams were over all
the Pikas. leit, scattering jn all di-
rections, Toddy Latimer and Enoch
Stevenson were the most ambitious,
miuking @ tour of all the South Car-

(Continued i Pane ETS

Stk]

CHARLOIPE'S NEW
Wm. R. Barringer

~—~'Hotel
420 N. TRYON SU.

burg and ending in “Charleston, and
having numerous experiences not

avilable for. publicittions. Brother
Keyhole Browning ended his pro-
jected trip to New, York _ignamini-
ously in Greenville, S$. C. OF course,
Brother ‘Dave Henderson made -his
usual trip to Chapel Hill. Brothers
Abels and Pollock, aiter exhdusting
the possibilities of Ligh-Point jour-
neyed tow Pinehurst” to the
inatches, 5

Brother Dave Spencer visited in
Blacksburg, SC... with _
Mofechead. Koss -MeElwee went
home to Statesville by: way of Cha-

polo

Pledge

bomes between semesters were Bro-
thers Shelton, Scott, Sample, Gibbs.
Overby, Wine, McDonald, Brinson,

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

After a hard fight with examina-
tious, most. of the brothers tither
collapsed into Charlotte or went
home in order to “get away. fro!
it all". A notable exception was |
Queenie Bob Smith who insists he

AND HIS ORCHESTRA

*

FEATURING

ee ee

a Ae
McKINLEY

“MID- WINTERS ,

Two words describe ice-cold

Coca-Cola... delicious and re-
freshing. Delicious, because it

- ds always a pleasure to taste.
Refreshing, because it leaves.
a delightful after-sense of re- \
freshment. So when you pouse
throughout the day, make it
the pause that refreshes with
ice-cold Coca-Cola.

Always Ask |

for

“Ss & Pp”

Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts Candy

Manufactured by

Swinson Food

Products|
CHARLOTTE, N.

TRADE-MARK
Delicious and

Refreshing

‘F riday- Saturday
‘Jan. 31-Feb. 1

- ‘Set Ticket $8. 00 |

YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY

c

flocled ander authority of The Coca-Cola Company bv

THE CHARLOTTE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY

