CAT CHAT

By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat _ S

GUEST COLUMNIST—BUTCH PHARR

Water Polo and diving meets would seem to be the only
par A Dad “hh

appropriate sports to talk about at the time of the writing of
this column, since the continuous downpour is about to float
Chambers Building off the campus.

Cats To Play Furman

Coach Shepard’s boys are taking the floor again Thurs-
day night in attempt to knock off the high-ranking quintet
from Furman University. This is one of the few remain-
ing home games and the Cats are going to be trying for
an upset, despite the fact that they are definitely the
underdogs. Sadly missing are the services of ex-Captain
Yarborough and big Johnny Fredricks who had been
mainstays on the team for the last two years. The rather
poor showing of the varsity against Guilford College, last
week while gaining a narrow victory threw a.damper on
the spirits of even the most ardent of the squad’s followers,
but the Cats are expected to come through with more
spirit and fight this time even~if the game isn’t won.

Duke Favored To Repeat

The Duke Blue Devils look powerful enough to repeat their
victories of last year in the Southern Conference Basketball
Tournament and again emerge with a string of scalps and
the conference crown perched proudly on their heads (if it’s
big enough). Others sure of bids to the slaughter seem to
be Wake Forest, George Washington, South Carolina, North
Carolina, and N, C. Staté with the latter having hopes of some-

how pulling a few upsets out of the hat, or basket.

Saturday Scrimmages

The intersquad football games are causing great interest
among the pigskin fans and afford them a chance to acquire
a little pre-season dope of their own as to the chances of
the Wildcat gridiron edition of 1942. The Reds have racked
two straight wins so far and claim to make it an un-
defeated season. The Whites got the jump on the Red ag-
gregation last Saturday, but did not have the power
to hold the lead from the smooth clicking Reds. The
Whites scored in four minutes after the opening of the
game and-went ahead again when the Red squad came
back for a tie. But this was the last of the White’s scores
and the Reds went in the lead to hold it for the rest of
the game.

Fraternity Basketball
hers sks

Page Four

Above are the Davidson varsity wrestlers who will meet North Carolina Saturday afternoon for the state

wrestling title.

Top row, Brinson, Turnage, Carter, Hipp. Bottom row, Stroup, Council, Coppedge and Dick.

SPORTS SCHEDULE

Thursday
Baskegball, 8:15:
Varsity vs. Furman.
Saturday
Football 2700:
Inter-squad- game.
Wrestling, 3700-5 007 >
Varsity ys™ Carolina.
Freshme Frosh,

vs» Carolina

k.’s breezed through the current inter-fraternity

basketball tournament and came out ahead in their first seven

games to win a well deserved title.
on schedule, but could forfeit and still remain on top.

tie for second place are the Pi

They have one game left
Ina

Kaps and K, A.’s, having two

more games apiece in which the tourney runner-up will be

decided.
Beta’s and Phi Gams.

Most disappointing and disappointed team are the
The Betas, with Walker, Schmidt, and

Caterson were supposedly threats to*any sorganization,

but

have only three wins out of seven to their gedit and only
one more game to gow The Fijis, also expected to be among
the top rankers as in last year’s tourney, are lost in the cellar

mous a scratch on the winning side of the ledger in spite

"ot the excellent play of Rudy Larson. who somehow managed

to be everywhere on the court
Let’s all turn out Saturday
lina for the state wrestling

sat_the same time.

and help the Cats take Caro-
championship.

Rifle Team
To Meet P.€.

The Davidson Rifle Team jour-
neys to South Carolina today” to
meet Presbyterian College in its
second shoulder, to shoulder match
of the season. Despite the fact that
it has done some fine shooting in
its matches this year, the team -has

been unable to gain a victory.

Barber Leads Cats

The Wofford College team, in-
structed by Captain Benjamin W.
Rushton, defeated the Cats in their

__first ~shoulder to shoulder match |

last Wednesday by the narrow
margin of 871 to 860. The Cats
__were_led by Bill Barber, who shot
185 out of a possible 200. Since this
was the first shoulder to shoulder
shooting for many of the Davidson
team, the boys were nervous and

peced to round into better form
as the season goes on, and will be
this defeat when
they.go to Spartanburg on March

11.

out to avenge

Georgia Tech also nosed out the
Cats 918 to 906

match last week.

in their postal

P. S. A. ELECTS FULCHER
(Continued from page three)
minster Fellowship. This change,
(Suggested by Mr. Joseph Garrison,
director of Student Work of the
Southern Presbyterian Church, has
been referred to the executive com-

mittee of next yar.

Th chief address of the week-

Reds Sweep
To 2nd Win

Co-ordinating their offensive and}
a deter- |

defensive work effectively,
Red eleven rolled over the
to the ZiaatOmelo)
fast exhibition Saturday,
February 14th.
White Score

The Whites, gaining possession of
the: ball,

mined
Whites
in a

tune of

on

drove to a quick score in
four ‘plays. George Peters, ‘fading
back the twenty, drilled a
pass to Buck Archer, who scamp-
ered over_for_the-initialtally:
Culminating a sustained drive, the
Reds knotted up the count when

from

Art Roach passed to Durant in the

| gym.

Cage Team Tackles

Furman Hurricane In

Gym Tonight At 8:15

Determined to salvage a bit of
glory. from the
tests after
up against
fast-travelling

remaining few con-
stack
University’s
tonight in the
The fracas is slated to start
at 8:15,

their basketeers
Furman

five

Starters Missing

Coach Norman Shepard of the

| locals is expected to give the first-

string nod to Long John Belk, Jack
Wayman, Mac Bruce, Dave Spencer
j}and Bob McLeod, with Pat Wil-
liams, Ed Lueas,
among others in line for heavy re-
serve duty. The Wildcats are miés-
sing the talented services of Tommy
Yarborough and Johnny Fredricks,
called by the armed forces and
football, respectively.

The Paladins will present a pol-
ished aggregation, good enough to
rate a fifth place conference berth
at the end of last week’s standings.
Paced by a ball-handling wizard,
Captain Bill Cecotti, and a towering

3ob Currie, and

brings its Maroons to town for a

game Tuesday night. After that,
only the South Carolina and Naval
Base .matches, both home affairs

remain on’ the Cats’ schedule.

Duke Favored
Duke, last
champ,

the

year's tournament

again appears headed for
top position, with the closest
George

and

coming from
Wake Forest
North » Carolina
should rank as the leading dark

competition
Washington,
South’ Carolina.
horse, providing the Tar Heels can
sufficient power to win a
Otherwise, Bones Mc-
Kinney and the State Terrors look

muster

tourney bid

dangerous.
South Carolina, here on the twen-
ty-sixth, boasts a colorful squad and

a pretty fair record to date. The

lend—was mfde—by—Dr.—_}--B>-€un=
ningham, Saturday afternoon, who
spoke. “Youths’ to
Christ’s Challenge.” On Sunday aft-
ernoon Miss Catherine Smith, tray-
eling secretary of Student Volun-
teer Movement,

on Answer

presented a mes-
sage on “The Challange of Missions

not up to par. The team is ex-

to the World.”

Gamecocks reached the finals last

sophomore sensation, Ted McCrary,

DAVIDSONIAN

ports

Thursday, February 19, 1942

i Varsity Wrestlers. To
Battle Carolina For

Mat Title

Of State

Carolina Favored In Championship Match;

Dick Coppedge Back In Line-up

SPE Quint

Cinches Top

S. P. E.’s Down Beta’s To
Win Title. Pi Kaps And
K. A.’s In Tie For Second

The fast breaking S. P. E. quintet
cinched the Inter-fraternity Bask-
etball Crown by dowriing a hard-
fighting Beta squad last Friday
by a score of 27-16.

S. P. E.’s Win Seven

Led by Sid. Daffin and Joe Biv-
ins the S. P. E.’s won their first
seven games in a row, starting with
the Phi Gams and ending with the
Betas. The champs breezed through
nearly all of their games having
slight diffculty in only one of their
matches. Although they still have
one more game to play they can
lose it and still retain the crown.

In second place there is a tie be-
tween the Pi Kappa Phi’s and the
K. A.’s each haying dropped only
two games out of the six played.
They both have two games left in
which to battle it out for the runner-
up spot.

Beta’s and S. A. E.’s Tie

There is another tie for third
with the Beta’s and S. A. E.’s run-
ning neck and neck with three
wins and four losses apiece. They
have only one game left in which
decide the winner of this place,
The Phi Deltas, not as hot an out-
fit as the one last year, are holding
down the number four position wth
two wins out of the five played.
The Pika’s are fifth, followed by
the Kappa Sigma’s, having one win
over the Phi Gams to their credit.

Phi Game Last
The fightin’ -Fifi's have done no
more than fight so far and are bring-

Saturday afternoon in the David-
son gym the Wildcat wrestlers® will
Meet tne Us IN; Gy
championship bout.

team’ in a

Championship Match

lf the Wilcats take this bout, they
will be the champions of the state.
Mithough the strong Carolina team
is favored in the coming meet, the
Wildcats are} out for victory and
the title. After a week of what has
been their hardest workout for the
season, the grapplers are in- the
best of shape for the coming fight.
Coach Packer gave out the follow-
ing liné-up. In the 121 class Stroup
with Coppedge back in the 128
weight. Either Long, Patrick, or
Council will fill the 135 class while
Brinson again wrestles the 145.
Simmons or Dick will wrestle the
155 and Turnage at 165. Carter
again fills the 175 weight and Hipp
the unlimited class.

Coppedge Back

Coppedge is back for the first
time in a month. After struggling
With-a hurt shoulder he is back
for this all important bout. If ever
the Cats tried for a victory, it will
be this one and the match will be
bitterly contested every minute of
the time. Simmons and Turnage
will have exceptional opponents in
the Mortachi brothers. These two
brothers are championship material
and are-expected-to go-far in col-
lege wrestling.

Last Wednesday at V. M\\I. the
Davidson team dropped a match 22-
6 with only two wins the whole
night. Turnage and Hipp both
won by decisions.. The powerful
V. M. I. team was on the offensivé
most of the time.

Cats Lose

‘Last Saturday night the Cats
met the W. & L. matmen here in
the Davidson gym. Here again the

flat for the score. Rallying, the ; ; ; "| varsity grapplers picked up only
White aggregation forged ahead] furman claims South Carolina,} season, and with Preston West-| ing up the rear without a scratch in} two bouts. W. & L. won with a
Once again when diminutive Shep Richmond, and Clemson among their moreland, Lanny Lofhdahl, and] the win column, score of 22-8. Carter won by a
Booth Sliced off tackle to score] ™@ny victims, although that scintil-| Gia Stasica at the helm this year, |j decision and Hipp by a forfeit.
standing up from. the five. lating early season form has cooled ave: cubctor the Nighsapote: Geckge STANDINGS Turnage lost by a very close de-
Fredricke—Gonverts oft_a—bitately— - - : F : cision that was almost a win. Brin-
Terminating a_march of fifty Cats Out of Race Washington and their great sharp- zsem Won Lost |] ..n, Simmons, and Patrick also lost
yards, Frederick crashed through} Only Citadel and Clemson separate} shooting forward, Zinic, were. the S. P. E.s---.,.---- f ; by decisions while Councill and
guard and then converted to put the | UF Cats from the cellar slot in the early favorites and plastered Fur- 6 2 Stroup were pinned.
Reds into a lead that they never] Southern, and they must buckle man the other night by forty points 3 4 The wrestling team has had a
i Apa arena Soe _— -
relinquished... A few plays later| own to hold a respectable Position to-replenish—their supply of—pres= 3 4 rougtt sctredute this” year and has
Paterson took a short aerial from |@t the final tabulation. A tourney : ie: h 4 2 3 done well under difficult conditions
Roach, giving the Reds a ne] bid is now a mathematical impos-| tise. Its a hot race. Pilias zs 4 and strong opponents. A few of the
touchdown margin of 20-13, follow-} s!ility for the Red and Black. How- K. Seo 1 5 matmen will graduate this year and
ing Frederick's only unsuccessful ated wie astedin\s ae pan hit DRIVE GOAL PhisGattienoaacconss 0 6 will weaken the team some, but
placement over the Citadel Bulldogs last week PA ANiGh Deer . e alin
; ‘ Fa peeT AU Diese Ran Ca anion . iti he she st ac a ed.
Roach-Laterals by SOW the the Pups in a spectacu- Farrington, $127.50; Davidson Pub- perhaps these places can be
Still scrapping, the Whites drove |!" 41-39 overtime {tilt : lic School, Mrs. Ives, $49.56; Thomp- |.4¢ ®
down to their opponent’s fifteen. After tonight's Hay win she son—Street-and—Woodland district; e
Failing to make the necessary yard- Breeze, Da vAsieorl Bene) 8 Bbiet OS Nia, Wood, $126.15. re |
age by inches, the pigskin went to] d@y rest before tackling Wofford fae ClSUuUre
the Reds who lined up in punt] here on Saturday night. Next week] In addition to these other suns -
formation. Roach, faking a_ kick the College of Charleston, victori-| amounted to $72.12, bringing the KE, TE
slipped around end and raced down| US once over the Cats this year,| grand total to $1,043.51. and SW A S
the sidelines. Cornered at mid-field, e
he lateraled’ to Ben Lacy, who ca 100% WOOL
scooted over, outdistancing the last , Friday and Saturday February 20 and 21 ree feat
White on the five to close the scor- e etlands
6“ 999
ing for the afternoon, although the HELLZAPOPPIN © Kali K
Whites made one last determined ha spatial
effort to score. Martha Raye Olsen and Johnson © Imported Cashmeres
NE ee © Slipovers
*
Monday and Tuesday, February 23 and 24 * Sleeveless
“SON OF FURY ” Season’s Smartest Colors
SWEATERS. _______ $2.95 Up
—--—--@—--. cs
{ Leisure Coats__-_-_.. $8.95 Up
Wednesday, February 25 «
ss ”
“Obliging Young Lady S L Cc S
100% WOOL
Thursday: February 26 © Cavetts ° Fl 1
’ se A
THACKER’S They Died With Their Boots On” me alba Gig Sh ed
RESTAURANT Errol Flynn $7.95 Up
221 S. Tryon St.
BE SURE TO SEE OUR
Opposite Johnston Building A VIDSON © THE ATh TR SMART SPRING SUITS
For Private Dining Room F a i
: DAVIDSON, N. C. Marion Davis Co.
Reservation Phone 5490 CHARLOTTE
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
y ————e
