PORTS
POTLIGHT

By LEGH SCOTT

As The Gride pear Ends

Hight Semors pray 1 their last game for the Wildeats
agailst the 1 week ieee who have donned the
Red and Black for Limes are Seotty Paterson, end
trom) Madison, oN. J.; Gill Shaw, tackle from fayetteville,
NEG Ierb Rainey, tackle from’ Mt. View, N. J.; B. F. Moore,
guard from MeCall, S. ¢ John Frederick, Back from Pack-
anack Lake, N. J.; Ben Lac y. back from Richmond, Va.; Ben
Washburn, back trom Wilmington, N. Ce; and Wileman‘Edhly,

Lack trom Greensboro,

NG;

: Fifth year men Bill Shaw and B. F. Moore were
mainstays in the line all year as was veteran Herb
Rainey. These experienced men take with them the
bulk of the weight in the line, which has placed the
*Cats on more nearly even terms with their hefty
opponents during the past few years. Johnny Fred-
erick was back in his old form in the last few games
after a sluggish start this year, while Scotty Paterson
and Wileman Ehly showed up well in spite of lack of
avoirdupois. Washburn was in there pitching and
running all season. Ben Lacy, probably the hardest
driving back on the team, missed the Citadel game
because of a broken ankle bone, which he suffered in °
practice last week.

Season Finale

Martin Gold
fea jury
ar Cision

pre tty

spoiler
standings
ats,
ais

\ndy

running

Victory and
attack ee Lore
shreds and rolled up a 21+
Phe eabuve
game,

itrued
riddled
over

on a powertul
Wildeat line to
air-minded David
sums up the story of
1 Davidson's hopes of a 500
this It was Cita-
1932 ir.tourth win
met

the
SCTILENCE

SOS.

well
saturday’s which
pereentage wm cOnterence
del’s first win overthe “¢
the 18 times the two ty
Davidson’s -passing game functioned effectively
in the second half, but it was a lost cause from the
start as the Bulldogs piled up 250 plus yards rush-
ing to only 20 for the ’Cats. who incurred several
long distance losses to pull down the average. Da-
vidson completed 10 aerials for a total of 125 yards.
They were almost perfect in per cent of completions
until the waning moments of the game when they
began to toss the oval around with desperation. In
spite of the large gains scored by the Cadets, the
touchdown which clinched the victory was set up by a
blocked kick. The ’Cats held several times in ,the
shadow of their goal posts. Disappointing as the re-
sults were, the Citadel had ruled as slight favorites
as they closed one of their best seasons in recent
years. Davidson had its moments, but the running at-
tack never got going with Roach and Lacy out of the
picture. Frederick missed his first conversion of the
season but made up for it.in kickng a field goal from
a crazy angie on the 14 yard line. Red Bethea’s kicking
was again outstanding, one traveling 75 yards to the
Cadet 4 yard line. '
Georgia-Georgia Tech
erid attraction between
Georgia Lulldogs, which held
imterest locally than Duke-Cardlina game this year,
had some of its color dulled by \uburn’s amazing detcat of the
Georgidustlast week, Bulldog supporters ape still neeling from
the blow, and there is no explanation except that possibly
Georgia was, pointing too much. to this week, and had under-
rated the Alabama Engineers Phe mighty Sinkwaich was
“meared time atter time.

This game, rated as the number one upset of the
current season, dropped the Georgia team from the
number one spot in the nation, leaving their foe of
this week-end in possession of the lead Followers
of the Wildcats who saw Tech in action’ against them
in Atlanta were impressed by the speed and deception
of the Ramblin’ Wrecks, but they also saw vulnerable
spots in the line. We expect that Frankie will be quick
to find those holes with the aid of the Georgia forwards
and that the Bulldogs will bounce back to victory Sat-
urday. It’s bound to be close, though.

Odds and Ends

Duke’s smashing triumph over State was of less national
significance, but it?was no less surprisng to local fans. The
game was rated a toss-up, and several experts had even picked
State to wine But the
situation, handing the Wolfpacks their worst licking of the
The Dukes were much nearer to their form of recent
from their mediocre showings against

scason

SIce and the

MW have

South's classic the ‘Pe

The

low-fackets and the hats more

even the

season,

years and were a far cry

Davidson and Wake Forest. fom Davis and Buddy luper
shared the running honors for Duke, while Art) Faircloth’s
kicking was the one redeeming feature of an otherwise off day
for tHe Wolves. The win assured the Devils of a tie’ with
North Carolina tor the Big Vive Championship.

Davidson’s Peters twins received conference

recognition for their passing combination by being
named “sophs of the week” after leading the way to
the Wildcat victory over Washington and Lee.
te Basketball
The. Wildcat basketeers are; looking to their best
inesome time. They have been’ engaged in drills for a fort
hight and were joined this week by those who had been busy

scasoun

with football. A well-rounded team is in prospect with Long
John Belk and Tall Tommy Peters being: counted on to rack

up.the points.

The schedule has not peer released as yet. but
the usual Big Five games are planned as ‘well as the_
encounters with the conference.teams in South Caro-
lina. It had been hoped that games with some of the
Virginia teams could be worked out, but a northern
trip is not being planned for this year. Transportation
will be a big problem, and this may necessitate. the
cancellation of some games. The first game is tenta-
tively scheduled with Hanes’ Hosiery in Charlotte,
December 5.

Formation of a freshman basketball team is pending the
decision as to whether or not frosh will be allowed to participate
in varsity conference games,

More Odds and Ends

it appears that at least an attempt-is to be made
to have a wrestling team, although a coach has not
been secured. The grapplers began workouts on Mon-
day, but no schedule has been announced. A student
coach will probably handle the team unless some
other arrangements can be made.

Wake Forest and Seuth Carolina will have settled their
Thanksgiving Day Feud by the time this appears, but it should
be a rousing - good game. The Deacons have had an unusually
good season, but have received little recognition for their
accomplishments. They should take this one but not without
a fight.

Devils were complete masters of the

Thursday, November 26, 1942

Dayis, Sigler
Stara § Dike,

acne Win

W. & M. Defeated, Clemson,
Maryland Win

fom Davis and Company trom
Duke University spoiled “N.C
State’s hopes for a Big Five Crown
y completely outclassing the Big

Ked tex in their 47 to 0 victory it
heow Which brought down the
tor the current season for

oth teams

Davis played by far his best game

or the Saturday as he

13]

season gain

a total of yards during the

iternoon, He-averaged a little bet
‘ ie six 4S > per try. with th
ind aecot for four of

Dey wus. Phe
t ven nutes old
n oke through leiteuard tor
t nd the first Duke seore, The
Ii added two more touch
vns in the second quarter, three

1]

and one in the fourth
Adie Aner ts

converted five

e third,

at -eandidate

r—Gatitt;

eht end, of the

eXtra points, missing, twice

Duke's
standing ball,

entire line plaved out

opening big holes tor

backs in the State line through
out the entire game, They complete
ly smothered State’s running game,
ind the Wolfpaek ‘timed up with

minus one in the net yards rushing

ftment, The Raleigh team fail
ey pe Raise teat 1 Feature Contest
ed to wet across the midfield stripe STANDINGS |
ti} well in the fourth quarter Featuring Davidson nfiugural
4 Revenge } , Ww L I Dads Day" on Safurday, Novem
Carolina's Tar Heels gained sweet || SA: E Se 0k 220 ; co :
; = Se K Si 8 1 0 el, Was a Varied sport program,
we for the 28 to 7 defeat Bill ath s \ i ; nee
L : ae . 5 mcluded Horsesho and shut
Dudley and his University of Vir Betas 6 2 0 ; May ta My
nia teaigunates handed them Jast K. A. 5 2 1 eboard, a touch football encounter
year on Saturday when they down Phi Gams 5 3 1 ind a “commando ball” fracas.
) a0 > : >i Ke 5 }
ed the Cavaliers 28 to 13, The Var Pi Kaps > 4 0 Opening the Uay’s activities, were
fF Dp " ~
Heels played excellent ball in their S)) ls 1B 2 y wv the horseshoe and — shuitleboard
final game of the season as they Independents 2 6 0 fenHVed ial ited | ;
: ra wVs, Which pitled several lath
cored in every quarter Phi Delts 1 7 0 u teat
beat Ga InN Staler took the barry ets 0 O-}}-aon-combinadens against one an
on foe Ansty and —tripped— oft Scores other Competition Wes heen
tackle for6l vards on the first Caro SA E. 6; Beta 0. Lthiourhout the afternoon vatid the
tina-pRte—hr-two more plays’ Sigler | S. A. E. 24; Phi Delt 0 event was enjoyed by all who pat
had® driven the ball over for the Phi Gams 24; Independents 12 ticipated
irst score with the game. still less Beta 12; Pi Kaps 0. Highlighting the “Dad's Day
than a minute old. Mike Cookes-trs Phi Gams:18; Pikas 6. chedule was the all important Beta
or the extra point was good K. Sig 12; Pi Kaps 0 sA.Ie. tussle The undefeated S.A
; pen Ge 2 a | :
Rob Heyvinann covered a fumbled K. Sig 18; S. P. E 0 | | défending touch champs, ‘took
punt in the end zonegfor the second aenarrow 6-0) decision trom the
Carolina touehdown. Johnny Pecora z serappy Betas after a bitter strug
led l for 13 fl 1 t 1 Si y Cli | gle in a game which should lon
circled end for 13 yards and a touch ri « . a he Wn at i ch should po a lon,
down latestrothe third quarter, and 1omas A Inc 1 ay in determiningg the loop champ
Sophornore Billy Myers finished.the | a After Schinidt’s poor kick Spun’ out
Carolina scoring witht his t—yard Seeon d | lace of bounds on his own ‘forty, ths
te wn run in the fourth périad SAN launghed a sustained drive
Indians Lose \s the intramural season neared which was: culminated when fleet
Southern Conference ead rs Namteearreisotrapdl det week, the Kappa Sigs Charley Wills 5 Kiama eng for the
lia ind Mary. suffered their! first piu lone tall A Wills aerial to
‘ . werk varanteed of at least a see \ i
lefeat of the season Saturday when Hlodvins on the twenty and an
the North Carolina Naval Pre-Flight ond place berth by knocking over} of Wil bullét tosses to Graves oh
eleven took a 14 to_0 victory over} the 5.P.E 18-0 and taking the} the Beta one-set up the seorc
them, Pi Kaps in town, 12-0 | splays of both aggre u
Lhough William and Mary, rank Live SeAu Dee uinntrite netitenl ail liant, and was an important
ed as the nation’s No. 1 club on de \ acd al Vite n the S.A win. Charley
wy adel tinge t tour in ne
fensey held for three quarters, thre dct a tet AR See area PANT paced his club «to, victors
Cloudbusters’ offensive attack prov Ber's 6-0, This was the eighth win] Hodgins, Graves, and Wilco;
ed too powerful for them in the final | of the season against no defeats for] alsa ormed wel Walker and
stanza. The first Score came mid-| the SAI Other games of the Sehr were outst nine for the
way in the final period when a de wtek saw the Independents drop_a Barn yamide a-spirited fight al
ceptive double reverse was good for] ,, Dd aie a the way.
4 oUt Islo , i i i a
lo yards and a touchdown, A power : ranean ich Lea y MAAS LSet Co ting the sports docket wa
my ; , . ,
ft fl burst over center from the ten The THRs wit ewise Tost to te Ph heated. “commando bal encoun
iccounted for the final score Gams, 18-6; the S.A.E.’s other game] ter that particularly pleased. the
in other’ games, Cfemson again} of the week was a 24.0¢rout of the Dad's Day” gathering, Played dt
: : ah pare pcg ; nv malfetir « Sk of .
nthe South Carolina champion-} pyj pelts: While the Bete whipped { sal time internn ae ‘ i Ms
p by defeating Furman 12 to 7, e touch wame, the team led by an
ate : e ; ; “TI the Pi Kappa Phi’s 12-0 : ay sugars
Miamfoverpowered South Carolina Crane scored a convincing 4-2 deer
13 to 6, and the Univérsity of Mary n to wind up the afternoon’s fes
28 victors tivitic

land squeezed out a 32 to
over the Fighting Generals of Wash

ington and Lee.
This was the last big Saturday,
but there waltbe many big games
) celebrate Thanksgiving, and fin
ily the numerous Bowl games
BY-LINES
(Continued from Page 2)

she sent an original poem for the

occasion, The poem ran:

“T wish that I could be with you

On Little Sister's Day.’

This was read to the
dent body*at the following Morning
Assembly,

Finally the
the registration
230 little
the
with

entire stu

amidst shouts and cheers
arrived
that

sisters were attending.

actual day and

showed over
In
morning they went to classes
their big» brothers,

early part of the afternoon was ‘oc-

while the

cupied in watching a.soccer game
Later in the afternoon an elaborate
Egg hunt was scheduled,
where brother and™ sisters vied to
see Who could get more eggs.

A brilliant banquet followed,
jew's harpist
After din-
football

Easter

at
which strolling
played between courses.

recent

a

ner movie of,a
game was shown.
The whole affair was considered
a brilliant success. The next on the
series was to be Acquaintance’s Day,
for which preparations were being

a

made for over 2,000 guests

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BASKETBALL

NEXT

‘CATS CLOSE SEASON

S._A. E.'s Defeat. Betas

In

Frosh Cagers
May Not Play

has

M. H. GOODRUM AND
COMPANY [eS

Nothing definite been decided

to date about the Freshman basket General
ball team for this year
; ; S
The uncertainty is caused by the Merchandise
pending Southern Conference com :
mittce meeting on December 11 to .
: : : Hardware and Groceries
determine the eligibility of fresh
men for varsity competition, In the

DAVIDSON, N. C.

are allowed to
play on the varsity there will be no
freshman
schedule’

event that, freshmen

team; consequently, no

has been arranged as yet

Outstanding treshmen
Ed Manget,
Hodgin
to

terializes.

prospects
Jimmy Hill, and Bill
Coach Spearman is
the if

Expert
Barber
Service

are
slated

tutor frosh team it ma-

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N::C.

Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Page Three

Citadel 1p a k es
21-9. Decision
In Final Game

Victor, Gold Pace Attack;
’Cat Passes Click
A by nlea t
a ) i i t
t ‘ oa
t Hlomecyming
( (
4 if t rf 4
21-9) win,
\ terial « ene
Above is the Wildcat team which started the season. Reading left to right in the line are:  O’Hair, de
Shaw, Taylor, Burke, Moore, Rainey, and Williams; and in the backfield: Bruce, Lacy, DuRant, and} ‘*
Roach. Due to injuries throughout the season, this team was able to start in only the first two games Uhre Iroy o Citadel
DuRant was subbing for the injured Be thea, and did an outstanding job throughout the | season. rit i ieleatronienict
ahd : dadhihet te [eseee: o, |e iter the kickofi hen, Bor
“Dad's Day” Highlighted|M vei
ong aerial to glue-tings
a ay ighlighted| Many Report ae ane
y-the Cadet 15
a ® ee F P \ hard-charging  ¢ (
With ‘Sports ts Pi ogi am |For Practice

Now ghat the football season is |Euldogs held) a scant, 7.6 lead
over several former court’ stars |S DAU
have been able to return to practice, «Field Goal
‘ | } feet
ind this are going at car hot pace : lt Davidse :
Lettermen Johnny bkredricks at ; bret il, : COUT ref
Pat Williams reported for practice Vee 1 : \
Monday while letterman Mae Bruce ue vide a leaping
Will ‘be out until after Christma.) °™ : 3 e Pet
with a football injury that : : pe
tered dyring the season Meet 3
; o bb )
Last year’s treshmen sta Vor : Ie"
z Jol Fredrick d 1
my and George Peter al | ; | :
the ¢ t ‘
ready (to Start practicc : ae :
t oal, The {
Other > will hecpishing ait
1 who wall be pushing th Citadel. “came it 1 \
leather around the Gourt will be Co-] (4 | 1
old and Salvat et |
Captains sane ‘rh | sell
= 5 ve ettermen he Bol | ppacke tine apart onan ible
< avn o Bol uric
ind Jack Wayman, Also Bob Curri ton ict nally
luck Byrd, Jim Lowery, ill Sut 1 1
tall The kic Was
ton, Fred) Powell, Bill Key | |
to? Citadel { Tetorecite
Kose, lop Shaw, and trituster Da
ithe “Cats untea d
Walker will be keeping the fthoor
fe mixthye ru ind pat i
: . ited ‘ hen
Ns yet the schedule for the con ; We ue ae
ae 1 10.11
ing games is note definite and -
mcs ay t 1
tlope can be released. at this print
let ) wn I)
ings ; | 1
ry dre ha
rie | nd tt a)
: ill ¢ idel
DAVIDSON COACHES w- hurtled. for
ee a HS righ ‘ to 10 bathe ¢
dets ‘ dohea | £
GUIS 152 thie ast ied seme ‘ Taw ae
briefs on the coaches of Wild
is ( ( ( q
teams for the benefit of 1 1 bP 1
1 (
to-the campus) |
1 | { it be €
HEATH WHITTLE t HW
ative Of Miami, Florida. Attes
ed Davidson and was gratduated in ced on the ball to
1930, Was a crack track mam at ne M in tl
held the college Hurdlé record wntil » Ie
this year when one of his pup a ROM Ceey,
bested his time. Ts varsity cre
ountry and track coach and Direc
A. S. BROWN
ot Intramural Also teache
clags Nhs al ducati dur }
in wPhysical Mdueati turin General Merchandise
pring. During the fall he is is
harge of football tickets: Heigl DAVIDSON, N. C.
live feet ten and weight 15

2

Thursday and Friday,-Nevember 26th and 27th

“TALES OF MANHATTAN”

Saturday, November 28th

“GIRL TROUBLE”
oe

Monday and Tuesday, November 30th, Decemebr Ist

“ARE HUSBANDS NECESSARY?”

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

DAVIDSON THEATRE

DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHETHER YOU HAVEA DATE OR NOT BE
SURE TO DROP IN AT THE B: ANOS ROE

MHOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER

