PORTS
POTLIG

By LEGH SCOTT

/ Davidson and V. M. I.

\

\s the Wild ake the field against the,Flying Kaydets
Saturday it will be th twents third meeting of Davidson and
V. AML. oon the gridiron. “The two sehools began their football
Yivalry back i 1904, and they save met each vearesinee 1926
except in-1939, It has been a pretty even series in all, with
the Wiideats winning nine, losing twelve, and. the remaining
game ending in a deadlock, “Davdson’s most defisive victs TY
over the Weydets, and incidentally their lastc was their 38-13
W.in111936,_}the-largest-score-\ M1 hase ver—amassed-over
the: Cats them 2020 triumph in 1927,

This. year’s encounter finds the Wildcats, still
scoreless, up against V. M. I.’s most successful team in
vecent yesrs. With All-American candidate Joe Muha
leading the way they have rolled over three conference
cpponents, Virginia. Richmond, and Maryland. How-
e.cr the ’Cats have been polishing their attack for
the Squadron for two weeks now, and they are still
cu ie anxious to score a few points. It has been
t entioned that V. M. I. has practically the same team
that the Davidsons fought to a standstill last year
only to lose a heartbreaker, 13-7. With abundant
cpt mism and faith in the Wildcat spirit yours truly
is: predicting victory Saturday!

A Look At The Greeks

With intercollegiate activity at a low ebbeintthes State
the past week, the campus rht has béen focused on the
interiraternitv. football ra vhich is nearing the decisive
Stic Phe pre-season favorites appear to be holding their
own with the exception of last year's champs and holders of
the intramurals cup, the IN. who went down before the
dampaging Betas and were tied by the Phi Gams However,
anything canchappen vet. \fter the -S.A\.1e?s, still undefeated.
and the pace-setting Betas vaingle, the picture should be
somewhat clearer, while the Sigmassare primed fot an upset
after taking the Phi Delts on Monday rhe ‘Independents
got more into the thick of things by virtue of their Victory
over the hapless Pikas.

Down East

All kinds of fireworks may be expected to break
loose around Durham and Raleigh this weekend as the
up and coming Dukes take cn undefeated Ga. Tech and
State’s Wolfpack seeks to justify the theft of the
Tar Heel Ram by repeating their last year’s conquest
of Carolina. Tech, with its speed and deception,
appears abcut two touchdowns better than the Devils,
but their defense seems vulnerable enough for the
Dukemen to account for some points themselves after
scoring nine touchdowns on favored opponents in the
last two weeks. From this corner the State-Carolina
fraca& looks like a toss-up, with both teams due to
bounce back after humiliating defeats from intersec-
tional foes. State. always plays inspired ball against
ihe Heels, but it looks like a little too much Carolina
this time.

\nother one
nighteap to the

tha

it Is--to

afterne

all

Picking

ivh Tir ¢

on doings

Wake-Clemson
Deacons by a

the
the

is

hair. AV few more predictions: Georgia over Alabama, South
Carolina over Citadel. Vo Po 1. over Virginia, Richmond over.
W.& Lb. S.C. over Tennessee. That's enough for a start.
The best sports writers risk their reputations at picking win

ners, so what is there to lose here ?

Odds and Ends
Another headache appears on the football scene as
Roach, Buck—Williams, and-Bingham take~on a-no-
travel-with-the-team status due to scholastic difficul-
ties. This is an unustally severe blow when it is re-
membered that both Williams and Roach are much-
needed wingbacks, and Bingham is one of the very few
centers on the squad. To combat the latter difficulty

Coach McEver is grooming “Ripper” Hunt for the

pivot position, already undermanned by the injury of

Heywood Brinnegar. However, on the brighter side of

the picture ends Dick O’Hair and Bill Dunn are back

in shape, and Red Bethea is becoming more and more

available for heavy duty. “Scotty” Paterson is still

on the sidelines from an injury suffered in the, Tech

game, but he may he ready to go Saturday.

Thete has been plenty Of praise for the sophs onthe squad
this year, but not enough has been said about, Sam Hay, who
took over the veteran Rainey’s tackle slot while the latter «vas
injured and played a whale of a game, especially against V. P. I
Buck Williams, another soph, (and he will see lots of action at
home-yet-has-alsooproved himself worthy of the red and black.

Reports have it that the Freshman game-with
Concord last Friday was quite a scrap. The Kittens
won by a safe margin, but there were plenty of Cie
including two stabs within the Davidson ten-yard fi
by the highs. The frosh have shown continued im-
provement in their three games to date and should
provide some interesting action in their tussle with the
South Carolina frosh, which will be the curtain raiser
for the homecoming festivities next week.

(Continued) Next Column)

| LINE BUCKERS

Red Burke and Bob Durant (above) have been very effective in
plugging those holes that will develop in the line. Burke has had nearly
a full-time job at the center position, and his stamina, tested to the fullest
by the lack of adequate reseryes, has been incredible. Sophomore Durant
broke into the starting lineup to replace the injured Bethea and has been
a consistent performer.

Thursday, October 29,

State Teams
Have Bad a
As Duke Wins

Blue

Five

1942

Devils

to

Paugine
were the only, Big team

Satur

bacon last
over a!
0

s pushed the

hshod

)
= to

team,

crip- |

und almost as they |

twice through the

two seor

beautitul

|
ott

enr = to

take

nimeanad

e gaine from the opening kickott
Coming Up

ite and Carofina clash in thei
annual battle in’ Raleigh Saturday,
vith the stolen) Mascot “escapade
adding quite a bit of color to this
Phe Stats cap
t Hi, Carolina’s Kam,
ast week, but were forced by school
offices to return it. This, coupled
with State's surprise win over the
Var Heels last year, has ereated a
rreat deal of tension for the game
Despite thein 27 to 0 shut the
Wake borest Demon Deacons re
fed good notices for their stand
against the mighty Boston Eagles
The Deacons were also victims of a
daz uv aerial attack as the Eagle
took to the air in the third. period,

Weacons had held them in

check since their carly Ore
Clemson's Tigers, vietors over the
South Carolina in’ their elash last
Vhursday, furnish the Deacon's op-
position Saturday. The gamé will
take place in Wake Forest Satur
day night, wid holds fine possibili-
ties

DAVIDSON COACHES

(This

Dbriets

is the first Of a series

Wildeat

on the coaches of the

teams for the benetit of neweonters
to the campus, Information cour
tesy Lacy MacLean, Public Rela
trons Otiiece,)
EUGENE McEVER

Head coach of football. «Home
town, Bristol, Fenn, Played four
years at the University of Tennes
see under Col. Bob Neyland. Was
he nation’s high scorer in 1931 and
vas selected as an All-American

haltback for two years. Col. Neyland

tated in 194] that Meliver was the
best back'that he had ever coached.
He was also a crack baseball and
vasketball player, and received: an
offer to join the Philadelphia Phil
lies of the National League.

He came to Davidson with Wil
lam S$. Newton, aiter coaching for
i vear at Tennessee, and under their
oaching Davidson won 23 games,
lost 17, and tied 5, McEver was
elected head coach at the beginning
ofthe 1937--scason when Newton
went, to N, Ce otate, 1942-35 his

he year as head cgact

SPORTS SPOTLIGHT

Coach Spearman brings reports
rom_his ings trip of last week
that Washington and-kee-put-up-a
real battle against V. P. I., 4s veri
fied by the score. To put it briefly,
it—looks—like the ‘Cats will have
their hands full again on ‘the week-
end of-the 14th,

Coach McEver’s class in mass
murder, having suffered few
casualties and still undefeated,

is taking on all comers, and
they are now seeking a match
with the Wildcat varsity—minus
equipment.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c S‘ore
Davidson, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

STURDY TACKLE

Sophomore
era el Motiet Storer

( " Mita the mats spot
ite their two early defeats, |

lue De really have thei

u tl ! CV Ties

t Mt i ‘ Yc

Jacket
Tar Heels Lose

Carolina previously undeteéated
Var Heels bowed to Tulane’s, fancy |

verial attack, 20 to 14, in their inter.
nal battle in New Orleans Sat- fh

irda Pulane’s superiority. was ap

pa except for a very lew min.

« ut the ver rst ah thre AIG

Favored North Carolina Stat
took asound thrashing at the hands |

of a revived Holy Cross eleven to a
28 to O tune Phe abilities of the |

Cri n hard-blocking line gave

hem a great advantage which en

| sistent

Bill Shaw's unexpected return to school this year has added much

needed power to the line.
starter,

season

e
Betas L ading INTERFRAT STANDINGS
) Ball ray
In Frat Ball fa... me 4
: 7 S.AE. 2 0 0
Whip K.A.’s, 6-0, To Retain Pei Gt ” 1 0
Lead; S.A.E.’s and Phi Gam ed
Sigmas Next Kappa Alpha 1 1 1

iP the Kappa Alpha’s to |} Phi Delts Lee 30
thei of vietims last week, || Pi Kaps 1 2 9
the Beta's “established themselves 4] 5-P-E. elie 20 0

Hla ethit ol_ot the anira Independents 1 2 0

ral football standings, and Joom.,|| Pikas 0 3 0

is the team to beat in the sea.

n remaininy Rames ° \

\Ithough rolling ap six first "Ca | Boote r
downs to their opponents one and |
Ree iem with their back ~ Pl : V MY Ps be ‘
the wall constantly, the K. Avs] ay Ircina

1 all nstantly, 3 =
t muster score punch and | Mt Ieriday, the soceer team will
uccumbed to “Walker, © Schmidt,
lo We ER TREY ( ching revenge. Having lost to
: Ss : Ithe University. of Virginia in Char
S. A. E.'s Win Jlottesville last week by a seore of
Ul yGemsee\alose remained CLOS C2 ON eeHeAVATan abou lenacnreslao leit
heels of the Betas Ay trouncing | ‘ i bat
the?l? Kaps, 24-0, and shit Tids as these FAL: MVIGLORY, OVEF Ae ue
? ) Jlicrs 1 time. “The game will be
{threat to Betas supremacy, | &
irked by Charlie Wilts, they are ived e and yhould have ayeod
ited an even chance of stopping | attens eas thi their first pame
the Pink and DPiuc the on to be played at home

UME ET TORO Ce RORITCHCOUNEI MaturUdVva th Gatemmaseplanning to
(uc ithe the Independents and the | '4 ce} Chapel Hill for a matel
Phi Delts, ‘the ppa Sigs look thr the Navy pre-flighters. So far,
Nenetiemienieedst Last week they | tmspertation has net been secured

7 iii ae noweatheyoare pnd Preston-@liver, coach and play
aes pos ia of the third | es, requested that inyone had a
With Gene Sutton, Pall Lacy, po tney coutd ues to please
and Ditkie . Phillip wine the | netity him. Tf played, this game will
wax, the Sigma ait 1 the afon- |’ the last one of the season
frat team, 20-6, ver Whipped the
Phi Delts Monday, 12-6 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
K. A’s Tied Any Record You Want

In a two-way tie for fourth place Parker-Gardner Co.

1 | the Pijis and the K.A.'s,by 118 West Trade St, Charlotte
virtue jof their--bitten “strugele last [Ll 1
Wednesday which ended in a 12-12
dea Phe Ph? Gam red i
the g moments on a Crowell-t DRINK
Fromeh—pass, and the doaikts

t back to knot the first
count. at. 44, when Jim PASTEURIZED MILK
snagged an aerial from Ed Manget. }
,

Phi Delta, Theta, Pi Kappa Al It’s Safe

pha, Sigma Epsilon and the Inde

pendants found then

place

in fifth 4

tetat—atone The Pikas, still}
vithout vic y to their credit, |
hold dawn the eellne berth. |

has borne most

teams tied-up
each with two defeats

of the work at his tackle position

A letterman for two years he is again a con-

all |

MOORESVILLE
CREAMERY

M. H. GOODRUM AND

COMPANY

General

Merchandise

Hardware ay Groceries

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert
Barber

Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Service

Wildcat Sports

BEAT V.M. I.

Cats Seek Triumph
Over Powerful VMI

Strengthened Wildcats Battle
Joe Muha and Company

Kittens Down

aced with the

C d hi: task of checking
Hi e bull-like thrusts of “Jolting Joe’
Oncor ig is Mu those valiant Davidson Wild.

Fletcher and Paylor Again) cats journey northward Saturday to

Lead Victory March as J invade Military

Virginia Institute

Frosh Win, 21-0 }and

square off agair Muha. and

Davidson's Watd-Kittens defeated | Co.'s strong aggregation
Concord High on) Fridat, Oct. 23 Atclevenscoharres-areer-ta kine

rd game of the season Gasteclist weelone a eiipecian

Keeeiving a weak punt from the onen date ine thelr {eakeiare

ments booter, soon after the | Istered by the retu f flank men

backfiel men Roland] 1) eo alreanh Hunveand

| tH Ns Fletcher com=| |, Mise tO snap out of their scoring

| 1 their to) push tHE | jachavaye Rint fornter

| sii Ove one—teot line] pinback, 1s frre QT { for the

FALLEN, TRUCCT SEVCEAIT AUCMDIS. Oil canter spot Where he will share the
Fmake a TD, “Rolo”™ Paylor plunged ; fai ie j

; ; pivot duties with “Red” Burke. The

icross, and the vietory march was Gite wane: bee cadniied daityaan

Bun ss preparation tor their tilt with V.M.1

; WH) Saar: and should be rarin’ to go.

Crashing Mito SUM ae territory fies VMI aes ou
Ingram snagged a beautiful twenty || sheets Na REAL ENA Bot mh Pus
ward. qiss trom hurler dletcher sto ducing men for Uncle Sam's ex
SeOrehre thee zomefor the see panding army, has naturally suf
ond tally, Following the pace set by | fered Ro war losses and—only threes
avian: andenbOclinmrAnioclierel ier 41 veterans were graduated. The
plunged: off left iaglleniociinbern Keydets were strong last year and
thirty-tive yard run for the third this season they loom as one of
core, Doing all of the, converting | the Conference powers, despite a
was big Walt) Romefelt who had a scoreless tie with the Clemsan Tig
pertect total of three boots through | STS ™ their opening tray
the uprights for three tries. When V.M.T. has one of the South's out
the smoke of battle had cleared, the statiding performers in Joe Muha,
core board showed: Davidson 21,] 210 pound tailback, who has been
Concorde 0 HORUS in every Cadet triumph, On

Outstanding Players successive Saturdays Muha has en

Mletcher and Paylor were the out | hincered or scored” every, V.Mal
tanding players in the backtield ,} tally in downing three Conference
while) MeArn excelled in the line. | tees. Virginia believes Muha is a
lroutman because of a back injury leading contender for national hon
recurrence, was forced to Jeave the | ors, While old-timers are certain that
same in the third quarter the big Pennsylvanian will become

The score for the Frosh so far-is | the greatest of VAGI. gridiron-im
two wames won-to one lost-—-troune- | nortals, taking his place with such
ing PLLC. in the opener and. being | men as Bosh Pritchard and Paul
defeated by the hefty dads- from | Shu
Chapel Hill Nithough the Cadets boast such

Next Game sterling arttetes as Peshazo~ and

On Noy. 6 the University of South} Matthews, Davidson must gear its
Carolina freshmen come to David-} defense to stop the powerful Muha
on to play the 'Kittens. After their] Last) year Muha sloshed. ninety
excellent performance in past games | yards through the mud to provide
ind the experience gained against} the vietory margin ino a 13-7 win
the first three adversaries, the Froshj-Phe ‘Cats, determined to hold Muha
are determined to show the S.C. and prevent history from repeating

team that Davidson wins other vic will maké a galant bid in Lex-

itself,

tories tl these of,a moral nature | ington to capture their initial tri-
Phe Kittens will be playing on their} umph come Saturday

own stamping ground, Their spirit ry ia Bann

will be boosted = and their desire se) “A poor memory means a poor
Win imerea ed by the backing which afitoen 2 ERA paycholontst
they-crecgive fromthe. members_of whose name we can't recall.

the student body.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.

“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison L. R Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N C. |

STONESTREET

Grade A Cafe
418 S. Main

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Mooresville, N. C.

THE DAVIDSON PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL

Presents

Johnny Satterfield

AND
Ted Ross

AND THEIR ORCHESTRAS

Playing For

HOMECOMING DANCES
NOVEMBER 6th and 7th

Set Ticket — $5.00
Individual Ticket $2.75

WE
SIGRIE

THER YOU!

FODROP IN AT

[AVE A DATE OR NOT BE
THE BAMB oe oe

AMehe

HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER

