Thursday, February 5, 1942

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

Question Of
The Week

Many colleges the Southern

the

in

Conference and: in nation use
training tables for all their athletic
teams. William and Mary and Clem-
son.are some familiar examples. At
the training table the athlete? are
fed only for the time they are+in
It

a

training. has. been suggested

that. such system be insalled at

Davidson.

ystemn

With reference to the

which is now*in use here,

do you think that it would be ad-

visable to install such a plan for

the athletes at Davidson? Below
are set forth the opinions of some
half-dozen students, most of whom
speak from the athlete’s point of

view.

Pat Williams, Sophomore:

I am in favor of ‘the training
table it it could be worked out sat-
with the — fraternity
think that it

could be, snice the only sport that

isfactorily

hoarding houses. I

would really take any number of

boys away from these boarding
houses, would be football. I see how
it could be worked out during foot-
ball season but when basketball sea-
son comes around you won’t have
enough boarders to run the board-
ing house. I’m not in favor of keep-
ing the same boys the whole year.
I think that when football is over,
they ought to return to their own
boarding houses, and the basket-
ball boys brought in—and so on with
track and baseball. In this way
these boarding houses could stand
to loose five or six boys for a couple

of months, and still not go in debt.

Arch Taylor, Senior:

I do not approve of the idea of
a training table for Davidson ath-
letes principally because of the
boarding house arrangement here.
Each fraternity has its own board-
ing h , and it depends upon its
own members to support it. If,
however, as few as half a dozen
men should be taken from the
boarding house during the year to
eat at a special training table, a
grave hardship would result for the
boarding house, because such an
establishment cannot come ayt even
with less than about thirty. mem-
bers. For this reason more than
any other, I believe that the train-
ing table would not be beneficial.

Joe Eve, Junior:

1 think that training tables are
necessary at mass calisthenics. It
nothing against the boarding
houses that they do not have the
proper food for training tables since
no one house has enough players
to demand a particular diet but ff
the school was to provide a central
eating ‘place during the regular
season with a trained dietitian to
prepare the meals they might not
beat Duke but they would be able
to give State and V. M. I. a better
fight.

Is

Red Bethea, Sophomore:

1 think they would be advisable,
and so do my colleagues, Elmer
Graves and Mac Bruce. The reason
is because more of the boys would
be in shape to encounter our tough
foes on the gridiron.

Bob Amos, Sophomore:

Training tables in the boarding
houses themselves are fine, but I
do not think the members of various
athletic” groups should be taken
from the fraternity boarding houses.
Since the boarding houses are in
themselves a good part of the fra-
ternity life, it seems that. the best
solution to the problem of training
should be left to the individuals.
It would be fine if the boarding
houses themselves would have train-
ing tables, but I don’t think the
fraternity boarding house should
lose any of its members upon whom
it depends for monthly dues.

Fred-K. Betts III, Freshman

__Yes, 1 do believe we should have
training tables for athletes. Most
athletes are fraternity men and even
those who are not must board at
different -boarding houses. This
would naturally cause the athletes
to be susceptable to different menus
and diets. Athletes need a steady
nourishing diet because of their
strenuous exercise. If all athletes
could be fed at a training table,
they would be getting the food they
need without up the routi
of their boarding houses which are
hurting their systems with improp-
erly chosen foods.

ti

SONGSTRESS

Davidson.
and Enoch Light.

LR. C. Climates Fourteen
New Junior Members

Peggy Mann, the attractive young vocalist who will appear with
Teddy Powell and his orchestra, will be one of the surprises which the
“Surprise Band of the Year” plans to present to the music lovers of

She has.sung with the bands of Larry Clinton, Ben Pollack,

Novel Team
Does Band’s
Vocal Work

Dick Judge and Peggy Mann
Sing In Band’s First
Southern Tour

Teddy Powell and his Orchestra,
who are playing for the Davidson
Midwinters Dance Set, are currently
on a tour of the Southeast. This is
their first trip into this area.

Featured with his band, Teddy
Powell has the two vocalists Peggy
Mann and Dick Peggy
Mann has heen called “the dynamic
She

Judge

song. stylist.” has sung with
‘such bands as Larry Clinton, Ben
Pretty,

twenty-one

Pollack, and Enoch Light.
dark,
year old Peggy has sparkling eyes

and vivacious,
and medium height. She has earned

enthusiastic applause where ever
she has. appeared. Dick. Judge, ro-
the

has

mantic baritone, is featured

male vocalist, and sung with

such bands as Richard Himber.
During the past holiday season,
Teddy Powell's band has been heard
in many large centers in this part
the He Rich-
mond, Spartanburg, Asheville, At-
lanta, and
places throughout the Southeast
After this he headed up into Vir-
ginia and West Virginia, where he
for

of country. Was_in

Birmingham, other

played several college dances.

Among his most recent cngagements
have been the famous Fancy Dress

Ballat Washington and-bee-and the

Midwinters ‘Dances at®V. P. 1. At
both of these funetions he made
an excellent: impression on those

who heard him. Some students who
at Vestalepe el

vacation

either
the

heard him or

home during report

SINGER

Dick Judge, romantic baritone, will come to the Midwinters Dance
Set as soloist with Teddy Powell, Peggy Mann, and his fourteen piece
orchestra. He has previously sung with such bands as that of Richard
Himber. His romantic tones will add spirit to the events of the weekend.
He will alternate with Peggy Mann as soloist.

Cl -an-Up Work Begins
Around New Buildin
Walks Will Be Laid And

g

B. S. A. Hold

Celebration

Local Troops Will
Observe Scout Week

Week
brated from February 6th through

12th.

soy Scout will be cele-
The five troops in and around
Davidson will take part in the ob-
servance of this week.
Special Event

Each troop will have some special
event during that week which will
represent to the community in which
live the work that they are

The

will

they
local white
hold

chapel

doing. troop at
Father-Son

and

Davidson a

banquet a program

hurch_ service.

Cornelius will have a church ser-

vice and a program at the high

school in which they will demon-

strate the work that they have done

im the line of first aid and air raid

precaution work

Ihe three negro troops will hold

a church service, a boxing tourna-

ment, and. will stress the advance-

ment of their boys in the respective

ranks

President Speaks
rhe high point of the week will

be an annual address given by

President Roosevelt to -all the

Scouts in the United States.

li Jn February the 16th, there will
be a banquet given for all the coun-
cilors and Davidson has been asked
to send representatives to this af-
fair, Walter Head who is the presi-

dent of the national association will

Group Considers Georgia Conference which will meet at} that-he is ideal for Davidson's Mid | basements, and the filling in of the} speak,
Tech Conference Georgia Tech, Atlanta, Georgia, on} winters Set. Landscaping Begun Soon anntabona tere trent the oll Mar- Praise D
At the last meeting of the Inter- March 13-14. Conference plans are} Powell has just finished a number : : —. ; Cienteetce: eee iddebeA hd
national Relations club, held Mon- : z pasa of theater engagements in Roanoke, News has come from the Treas-|'™ eve EASY AL Bill MacLaughlin, who is the head
day night at the Kappa Sigma Ne eulueia Nees ue Saregie skit: Winston-Salem, and Greensboro. He urer’s office tos the effect that} walkways are to be constructed, of the Boy Scout program for all
house, fourteen new members were dowment for International Peace will arrive’in Davidson on Friday “cleanup operations” on Davidson's hrabs and grass art to be planted, i : me BL
initiated. will send distinguished speakers} afternoon February 6, from Win-|!%o Hew buildings are THU WAVER entent sar AOatelialiteceisiar to le troops near Davidson said that
These included: Fred Morton,| who will participate and round table] stoy-Salem. He will play a concert Phe equipment house on the ice eons ane eee the boys who are students here at
Bob Pierce, Ed Erwin, R. L. Brin-| discussions will form an important] ere on the same day at 4:30 {o@uthern end af the campus is being Me eee MeN on the Trout) Davidson and are ‘taking apart
son, Tommy Lane, Jesse Wooten,; part of the program. P.M. : removed so that the yew of the of Chambers building will Be Ine tit Scout work ake councilors
Spike Mebane, Hugh Sprunt, Peter Di . An R. O. T. C. parade has been court consisting of the science NY hould get extra praise for the vast
Young, Ed Murray, Wellford Hob- ouaey announced for the afternoon of the] building, the library, and the south New Flag eta ren rene ITT
bie, Hugh Battle, John McGee, and} The next meeting of the club will} concert. For the conveniece of all} em end of Chambers may be seen] SUL Lie eat! fhat It hasbeen
Priestly Conyers. ‘be held on February the sixteenth»! \),., boys taking part in this event, inuch more clearly. | \nother aegis OIENIDECE CS ts 1p the} necessary to do in the past few
Conference There will be a guest speaker, prob-] 4) R ©. T. C. students have been cee jordering of a new flag to replace} months in preparation for the week
After the meeting a discussion} ably a member of the faculty, who} i vitad to attend the concert in uni- aa Dae the battered and worn emblem] to come These boys, in addition
was held with regard to the send-| will lead a discussion on an unan-| ;,,., The landscaping of this CO | which naw adorns our campus. A]to all their school work have un-
ing of delegates to the Southeast-| nounced problem of current World erin ar muantnah (ecwealcend already begun by the removalof he pew Mage is area demand and] dertaken the leadership of the
ern International Relations Club’s| affairs. (Ganlianed: oncBapeasin) dirt left from the excavation of the | has been ordered and is enroute. Scouts.
; e u
Down Fraternity Court
* : en
‘ be
K. A.’s Trip journeyed to New Bern and neigh- | son, the dates (to think) ! of Pledges | ited his parents. Delta Kapp chapter af Phi Gam-~] ].exington to see the bride-to-be
; : borhood to investigate submarine} Hugh McLauchlin, Lacy Sellars, and And as cusual, Florence, S. C.,|™4# Delta takes pleasure in announc- The brothers and pledges that
Davidson K. A.’s added another : : ne : = Sonne tine oH = eel eenleEihie GEOR en Preston Mae soma eco
‘ : ' . |scare. And at this writing they] Herb Morton, respectively wis ‘the destination of Brother "Mc | ging t couldn't. find anything else to do
ko ithein Tene lett wads arer aa sre: still among the missing. : Call, who investigated recent “flush | Of the Sophomore: class made it to Charlotte. They were,
ing week-ends, the first of the month : Pled Delts Deal tes.” Brother Plunkett spent Wi Churet TART Nel
providing ample opportunity for _Brother Brinson and Pledge aT Pare Ti or Pare fats = ‘ hate ss Betas Settle inn, iurch, Upchurch, elsh,
trips which included such feminine Fraley enjoyed ao quiet. Saturday foe Raiminieandect rai i get VAIS RSE AS AUST aa aa Most of the wild hairs ‘settled | Buckley, Efrid, Stubbins, Jack’ Phil-
points of interest as Converse, evening, in pistes vile) ane prolpe aeons carralahrened lout for \ - ey _ | down after a big week-end at] ips, and Caterson. Somebody said
@Oticensg. Winthrop, and W. &,L. Lane tendered his flower garden Tidwiniens” Brother Hebbic made Brother Larkin_visited his 1avor— Brother —Bryant’s;.-wedding--—Very|that-Pat-was iteittaateaah eran ie
(dance week-end in the Virginia] in Charlotte. Seen at the concert ° ; a sara be os a ' : ine Gaal ite teacher in W ashington, NOH pach thsret) = li eae mde TTT Roa saa ie eee
city). and later at the tavern was Brother = i bales EAM A AAR while Pledge Bradley travetcd MOLES nrc ten teh ois clan tie Oig Disc! avern for’ Gates last» week-enc
arrae Charlotte: triehdavat Hill, and also Brother Brockman} ¢"e- ward to Waynesville, N.C. srothers pag Aele sant Brothers Ed ‘Taylor and Paul
aie see oe i ao ‘ll - attended the musical. Pledges Sutton, Hendee, and Davis] Gaither and Watson operated in YW : : Welch triped to Goldsboro, EI-
ae Denes at OB ke Brothers Martin and Parks and] were planning on operating big at} Newton and also at Queens, Brath- , ane i ae ates oe managee liott White made it to the fair “city”
; oes an ss eh an ibe il Pledge Farrar dated in the Queens] W. & L. Saturday night, but-night]ers vans and Bubbarger followkd = fe = ey : pe 7 : eaten ve of Graham. Brother Neisler spent
meted Baterson Bets Beebe q| City and in due course migrated} came and they were only in Danville | the well beaten path to Hickory) Urkade Mitac ath De i ens Aa his] the week-end with. Brother Garri-
TO: St) Mary os ; eng mandy garopbe to die tavern. and Averitt. N.C, while Brother Armstrong toolf SULT i ground Huck Rankin} on in Burlington.
pyEr toy ir Vise 8 Chaps! Hill. At Brother Morehead and Pledge Pledges Tate and Ste sand] his usual route to Gastonia Broth- made his regulars se WA weekly to| [Continued on Page Six)
the same time, Brothers Sprunt and Ag! bd Yeats Fi ; edges late and Starnes anc ; : a aa alld fesendine =
McLean were enjoying a prolonged ht ae er ae Sa Brother Westall were at their homes | &' ee ae hall
re » 's home i jj-| beauty show with no luck while} jn Morganton and Asheville. Pledges | 4860 to get no i ; ats : * °
EN former's home in Wil-| Deauty Shanon was more fortun-| ile and Emerson took Salem by tte. Melge Hirminghaon spent a The Pan-Hellenic Council
Converse proved to be of-sufficient ate at the Davidson theater. storm on their trip to Winston. uniey ntful week-end in the In- Of
charm to lure Brothers Wilson, It..is_with etcat erent Mani The chapter regrets the loss of "7 Davidson College
Houston, Watt, and Washburn, DOMES the pledging o aS "1 Pledge Wilson who has transferred Phi Gams Visited
while Pledge Brother Darracott liams. to the University of Minnesota. Giacate last weekcend. of. Bhi Presents
headed home, as did Brother John Sig Eps Adventure _Mr. and Mrs. Sutton, of Decatur,] (0.4 Delta were “Mr-oand—Atrs sca Soe
Belesercuet eminence: : Most of the brothers were on the pales Bilestp of she chapter lant | siiind J Lyman; parents a Bil Teddy Powell
Campbell Ansley was home in} campus this week-end, preparing Lyman, and Col and Mrs. Riviera, Na
Charlotte for his weekly date with for Midwinters. However, there parents of Lee penne Mr. and »An 18
Louise, and among those frequent-| vor. a few “hairs.” Rod Turner Mrs.-Lyman were also present. at 6 D ”
ing the haunts of the Queen City ie top honors with his trip to the Phi Gam feed Sunday evening, Surprise Band of the Year
were Pledge Brother Abbot, Broth-| atjanta and-vicinity. Charlie Isley The usual ‘song fest was supple: For
er Sinclair, Pledge Brother George) .,4 CC, Henderson journeyed to mented by the serving of sandwiches
Council, Brother Freddie Speas, and Greenville, S. C. on a band deputa- and hot chocolate. Mid Wi t
many others. As usual, the Tavern tion, while Jack Davis topped his Srothers Bob Crowell and Moose 1d- in ers
provided the main center of attrac-| | oh ond off with his usual fo Hart spent a quiet (7) time in Lex- FRIDAY FEBRUARY 6
tion. Winthrop. ington at the home of a Duke stu- I
The ultimate in pleasure from} Jack Behrman and Fred Morton dent. coe Concert 4:30 P.M. Formal___- 10-2
other adventures can only be gained} shuttled up to the University of Rock Hill was the quest of Dick
if their nature remains secret, sO] North Carolina for .2.Peace Con- Pi Kappa Phi’s Remain O'Hair and Hank-Crane,avhile Jesse SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7
for-the-benefit-of watchful parents} ference, bringing back gruesome After last week’s “deals,” the} Wooten, with the aid of the same Tea Dance 4-6 P.M Inf 1 8-12 P M
and_professors,all remaining mem-| tales of hair-raising adventures. Bev} majority of the chapter was.content| Mr. Crane, made a visit to Chapel Someta beehtatd norma Soe O53413
bers of Kappa Alpha fraternity! Bobbit completed his plans for Mid-} to remain on the campus and in-| Hill, Pledge Tom Findley visited Concert in Chambers Dances in Armory
were determinedly studying on the} winters with a quick one up to GiC.| dulge in the “late show” Saturday | his family at Fort Bragg.
campus. Saturday night found Price night. However, some of the bolder "Greensboro. (the old “W.-G.at- U. S. Tax N.C. Tax Total
; A Gwynn and Bill Loy among those} souls and the perennial “dealers”| traction) had the honor of seeing SET TICKET. __ $7.51 $0.76 $0.23 $8.50
Piles -luvesteere present at Berryhill—in their old} made pilgrimage to their various} Tony Darby, and Dan Hodges paid
A fairly quiet week-end Was] hunting grounds. Also among the/}ases of operations. The longest!a more serious visit to his parents All Profits Will Go To The
spent-by way. of conditioning for} jesser “dealers” were Pledges Fred-| “hare” of the week was pulled by|in Raleigh. Arch Taylor was seen .
Midwinters. In addition to most of dy Powell and Rush Winchester,| Brother Eve, who journeyed home-] passing through Winston—the story American Red Cross
the freshmen who were campused} who visited their homes in Chester,| ward to Ajgusta, Ga., where he vis-] is vague, but there's talk.
supposedly, Brother Elder indulged] s C, and Berryhill, respectively. 7
in his intellectual pass time of|“poogie-Man” Whitley was espied eae is : eee i= me
bridge and chess Also on the camp-| in the Queen City—as were other WHETHER YOU HAVEA DATE OR NOT BE
us was basketball star, Pledge) small operators SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM HOTEL WM.R. BARRINGER
Thomas. Sunday visitors to the chapter TNE ee ° e
Brothers Scott, Parsons, Dave| were the Misses Jule Hurst, Kitty
Henderson, Maxwell, and Hodges| Maxwell, and Laura Ann Ander-)
