Thursday, January 29, 1942

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

Wilson Angel, Barit

Library Begins Book

Campaign Tomorrow

Dr. Davidson Makes Plans
For Victory Campaign

Books for soldiers, sailors and
marines will be collected in the
dormitories this week-end. Dr.

Davidson, Director of the Library,
has received literature on the Vic-
tory Book Campaign from the state
headquarters Greensboro and
has replied to requests for co-opera-
College that an
will made in
chapel student committee
formed each dormitory
room to collect books from students
they to con-

in

tion at Davidson

announcement be
and a
to visit

who have ‘any wish

tribute.

Popular novels, humorous books,
books if not earlier than
music,
Text

scientific
1935, biof®faphy,
plays, poetry,

if over five years old
are useful. Ine fact, the type of
books wanted is that which would
be of young men of
military service age. No magazines
are asked for as they are compara-

books on

sports, etc.

books not

interest to

tively easy to get near the camps.
If any prefer to give cash this can
used for the campaign managers
to purchase books.

The Victory Book Campaign—is
sponsored by the American Library

be

Association, the American Red
Cross, and the United Service Or-
ganization for National Defense.

It is a nation-wide undertaking and
many colleges nearby have already

begun work. National Headquarters |

are in “Room 1630, Empire State
Building, New York but collections
made in Davidson are to be sent to
the

boro.

state headquarters in  Greens-
This will be handled through
as far as
» dents, faculty members and officers

of the administration are concerned.

the college library stu-

Purposes

purposes of the campaign
stated. in. the. official literature
(1) To collect gifts of books
for soldiers, sailors and marines as
a supplement! to the library services
maintained by the Army and Navy
in forts, camps, posts, stations, and
on ships; (2) to provide reading
matter for the U. S. O. houses out-
side the camps and for the Ameri-
can Merchant Marine Library As-
sociation; (3) if the supply is more
and children in areas where _in-
dustrial activities have increased
population so that existing library
are inadequate or non-

The
as

are;

resources
existent.

All Contribute -

All students, faculty members and
officers of the administration are
requested to go through their books
and see if they have items of in-
terest to the, causes to be served.
College library assistants will visit
they dormitories to ask for these
books. An announcement will be
made in chapel concerning details.
Faculty and administrative officers
are asked to bring their contribu-
tions to the college library and turn
them over to the desk assistant.
They should be marked “Books for
Victory Book Campaign.” Students
may do the same if they are out
when called upon in the dormitory.

MIDWINTERS DANCE SET
[Continued from Page One]
will have ‘great popular ‘appeal be-
cause of his versatility. Powell is
said by experts to have a knack
of creating moods for dancers, be-
cause of the fact that his arrange-
ments are so brilliantly and_intri-
cately executed, and also because of
rhythm. this

extremely popular

his excellent For

reason he is
with college dancers, as is evidenced
by the fact that he is playing for
the. famous Washington and Lee
Fancy Dress Ball on Thursday of
this. week, and the rest of the week
end at V. P I.\Besides the fourteen
pieces in his band, Powell is bring~
Peggy
and

ing with him two vocalists:
Mann, “dynamic song stylist,”
Dick Judge, bariton.”
Included in the aggregation
“Band within a band,” the “Six
Teddy Bears,”
ilar to Benny Goodman’s famous
sextet. Also featured is “Feather”
Austin, sizzling trumpeter, who has
been- compared favorably by many
with Harry James and Bunny Beri-

“romantic
is a

an organization sim-

gan.’

Phi Installs

New Leaders

Bill MacLauchlin was installed as
the new president of the Philan-
thropic Society at the monthly
meeting of the group Tuesday eve-
ning, January 27 in the society hall.

Other new officers for the second
semester include George Ogilvie,
Buddy Wells, sec-
John McLeod, first critic;
Joe Hopper, second critic and Paul
Kissling;— sergeant-at-arms. Jim
White will continue to serve as
treasurer, since this office is held
for the whole year.

vice-president;
retary;

MacLauchlin made the customary
inaugural speech following: his in-
stallation the occupant of the
president's chair. He pointed out
what the aims of the society should
be and what accomplishments’ he
would attempt during the present
administration.

as

Bill has been active in Y: M. C.
A. work during his years at David-

son. At present he is on the “Y”
Board of Control and serves on
the “Y" Cabinet as the head of boy's

work and community service. He
has worked among the negroes, has

taken part in e&tablishing new
scout troops, and has led the Gray-Y
work in’ some of the schools of
Charlotte.

President MacLauchlin was elect-
ed a memWer of the Election Board
last fall and member of Eta
Sigma Phi, honorary classical fra-
ternity. He second critic of
the Phi Society last

Ex-President

is a

was
semester.

Tom~ Plonk  an-
nounces that a prize will be awarded
to the ‘member of the society who

wrote the best prose paper dur-
ing the first semester. These papers
are being judged by members of
the faculty.

Speakers Set

For Services

Announcement of forthcoming
Vespers Services has come to The
Davidsonian from the President's
office.

On’ February Ist, this Sunday
night, Dr. Julian P. Love, from the
Louisville Theological Seminary,
will be the speaker. The following
Sunday evening, February 8th, Dr.
Price H. Gwynn, Jr., Davidson Pro-
fessor of Psychology and -Educa-
tion, will talk.

Dr. Paul L. Garber, of the Trin-
\ity Avenue Church in Durham, N.
C., is to be in Davidson attending
the annual conference of the Pres-
byterian Association of the Synod
on February 15th, and he will be
speaker at the regular evening ser-
vices,

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., President
of the Union Theological Seminary,
of Richmond, Va., will speak on
February 22nd. He is father of two
Davidson students, Ben"III, of the
Junior Class, and Bill, of the Soph-
omore Class.

‘42 Riflemen
Set Matches

More emphasis will be placed on

the rifle squad as a representative
team of the. college in this year's
competition, according to Lieuten-
ant Spencer, of the R. O. T. C. de-
partment.

There will be an improved sched-
ule for the sharpshooters, and there
several

are S PERE UANIE: prospects

“loosening up their trigger finger”
on the target range at the armory.
Nine shoulder to shoulder matches
have already been scheduled, three
more are being planned for, and
there. will be postal matches (in
which scores are compared by mail)
with such representative schools
as University of Pittsburgh, Georgia
Tech, University of Georgia, Uni-
versity-of Hawaii, and others.

Veterans of last year’s team who
will be firing again this season are:
Stubbins; Kerr; Jones; Gowdy ; Yo-

cum; McArthur; Wilson, R. D.;

BARITONE |

SIGMA _UPSILON

The Davidson chapter of Sig-
ma Upsilon, the national hon-
orary journalistic fraternity, met
on Friday night in the Phi Gam-
ma Delta House. The program
consisted of papers by several of
the members.

one, Will Sing Here In Early February

Phi Mu Alpha Gives
Fifth Sinfonia Event

Noted Opera Singer To
Give Concert In Early

Bryant Weds

Harwell Darby gave his initia February
tory paper on “Journalism.” I 5 Wilson Angel, baritone, will, be
Following this was a stream of n al ot t @ | featured in early February on the
conscious paper on a_ morbid fifth program of the current Pli
soul by Bill Sprunt. Bill Lyman James Robert Bryant, Jr, a mem-| Mu Alpha “Sinfonia.”
ideanoehnts the oy vate ber of the present senior class, was For the past ten years Mr. Angel
the chapter epic sander A : Nee
Mall F F P' bh b ior : married to Miss Sarah Elizabeth} has been singing \to a nation-wide
allory. rom the book he is B Es A 7 audience. He got his start through
Wilting concerning. the ipeyohels srownlee, last Saturday night at h 8s
: a Anse oR pt the National Atwater-Kent Radio
ogy of Nazism and Behaviorism, the home of the bride’s parents, Mr Ainditi “1 1932 i M
1 aye + ” : dition in vo Mince then Mr
Dr. Williamson read one of his || and Mrs. \W. Frank Brownlee, of} 4, ;
a |} Angel has appeared on the radio
cha ers. 2 °
as A Ener aay ae Charlotte. and stage. He appeared for a sea
ie e o 6
PECETSM Dro Willie Harriso \ on as a. sustaining. artist over
bers treated) Wiemaslves to a Y illiam arrison iliams,
CBS and was aster -eremonie
u pastor of the Pritchard Memorial} Been Aveserus | cba Ote Cencrmonies
round of refreshments
. . and singing star for a commercial
daptist, Church, officiated at the program for last summer's season
N C ceremony. The vows were spoken}
ew ourses in the living room of the Browulee | Will’ Sing Pea
A course on public speaking is[ home on Lexington Avenue his past fall he took leading
being offered to Juniors and Seniors ’ : parts in seventeen opera produc
- moe Phe bride was given in marriage tior 173 heduled
during the coming semester. This}),. jer father. Het ‘ M ions and is scheduled to appear in
‘ “4 A SIs ssi
course is to be taught by Prof. C. K UA twenty-four performance this
B ~ y Frances Brownlee, served as maid] spring
get : R ; of honor The Sridegroom had as i Philadelp! i
Jecause of uncertainty ag LOE ee heetainaiieet acl pO ie heelool ale eica le : idelphia vening Bul-
number of students that will take ; = Ttetin” recenthy commented on the
; rats Petal dant, a  omembers of the freshman
this course itcis still in its experi- : of Wilson) Angel “His
: class at Davidson. Both are mem ney
mental stage. Depending upon the AERA PORTALE UHH SEAM ctl a ean bas of manner, case of singing,
demand for public speaking, Prof. PRT the resonant beauty of the smooth
Brown is not--certain whether he | Howing tone of his voice and the
will continue to teach the course Bob Bryant is also a member of | ¢ xeellence of his” enuneiition ue-
Applied math will be tatght by] Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish] lighted the large audience attend-
Professor Wood sand meteorology] fraternity, of which he is seeretary. |g the coneert of Wilson Angel
. by Professor Fulcher. Students] He atso represented—Beta Theta Pil list might”
wil 1, b
the oars seal Manse wil se abo Ne Chania BE Bri en esting entering the army before next fall} on the Pan-Hellenic Couneil, and This Phi Mu Alpha concert will
mt season, wil] appear in ambers Auditorium in Februa yee ; ;
in the fifth of the concerts on the series offered by Phi Mu Alpha, Bae Will have opportunity to get these! will be graduated from Davidson) be presented in carly February in
orary music fraternity. courses | this coming June | Chambers Auditorium
K-Sigs Visit Buzzie Councill. Brother Dick Cop-{lotte as the base for their agtivities {dazed expressions, a fing time was{ing concerning 1. Dis are strictly
After this week most-of-the boys pedge, laid up with an injured left we re Jimmy Wilcox, Hank "Gwynn,| had by all 1a t
went somewhere to recurepate, The wing, was left behind. Also making | Frank Lee, Southgate Jonés, Tommy Phe chapter was well represented | Brother” Bivens spent. a quiet
¢ ry . i ‘ere Ye y ‘ , 2 « oo . } "
majority went home but many found the trip were A ledges, Durant and] Powell, and Clarence Anderson!) (Greenshoro by Brothers Clark,| Weekend. at-home, while? Brother
rest in visiting their girls Ford, Frosh Grapplers. Buteh Caldwell, Claude Hackney itedhes Rarenil rey ere rdcHay wase lieing welll sententained
: Other members of Sigma Chapter,| and B ‘Le SSreeraiiaen westne ee nL ve Re
The chapter regrets to say that] ),, a trek : ni eile gad ud Bob, MeLead Pledge White. Brother Henderson | in a dentist's chair in Charlotte
. 3 PO ers ane cages all Fy Us >
we are losing three upperclassmen edt , Br : ii Jimmy Fuller shot down to At} went to Chapel Hill, and various] \lso travelling to. Charlotte for
2 $ . yartec ) Various JOINS ” ve :
because of the world situation: Dick st ' ‘ th ; \ 7 7 | : lanta, and Harry Hudson spent a} members made Charlotte their head Jthe usual evening’s entertainment
; ‘ Rees ri ulobe trothers Anstey, MeLean, ; : : ; i
Manning, Dick Smith, and Tommy Wil | an ee ; tl gala week-end in’ New York City,}quarters-—the last few days. ot the were Brothers Major, Knox minor
‘ F ae SON) Je uns i “dee . r
Yarborough are leaving. These men Brat Abt ‘ ; a he Ch ath while Ed Lucas and Mae Bruce vis-}] week , L.egerton, Brown, Myers, and Hen
; r rother ADDO OK IN we arlo 2 : .
will be missed greatly and the] . Ah base haedin ©Tited Converse in Spartanburg : ) derson
ATi ene Paine if] ERs sights along with the rest of the It is with regret that we bid fare- |
ter re F ds th ood- * ; r B ‘ ;
Bee y 8 Queen City crew while Brothers Phi Gamma Delta well to Brother Pollock who has | rother Bobbitt was Steet the
Br ther: 1 pled I t John Belk-and Sandifer dropped by Celebrations were’ in order last | cast his lot with Unele Sam's fore s.|! re s ee a ne paar et Le
others. anc edges who went] Gyart: fet , say unre and $ F he other ¢
ee oy F ais Bi ne rae Spartanburg for obvious reasons. | week-end not so much because the SPE iB re unas e other ad
to their homes were: Conyers anc The chapter regrets the loss of | sudent body passed the exams, but ' Res venturers of the week-end« have
Crook to Spartanburg, Richardson} prothers Little and McWilliams and] jecayse most fella’s were still feel- Phis weekend the brothers sought]! peen mentioned However
i pe aah a sic tl Pledge Brother Bachman and Art ing able to breath after the affair] Ways to Aiea: chanical vnecnt oh drother Hay Wises to announce
urg, enderson to alterboro, Spencer, who won't be with us this] was over strain of exams. Brothers Datfin, that he has finally seeured a date
South Carolina, Sutton to Fayette-| .. x : : Tur ( : j tors Midwinter
ville, N. C. McCoy and Williams ae Wooten and Williams thought ap} [urper. Gwynn and, Miller jour-|
4 thea he an er : Phi Delts Travel something new. this time they neyed over to Queens as tisual, aud The chapter’ was visited Sunday
to North Wilkesboro, Squires to Brott Mcl h and~ Pledge : after a pleasant visit at the college dM lay | he : lack
: i F rother Mcintosh anc CUBE) went to Chattanooga! Buddy | ‘ : Gs i ge.) an onday by the parents of Jack
Spartanburg, Booth to Lawrence- Cae ort ‘ Pa Pala aerate ntawmiewliernntl if |. | joDaaiolal
ville, Va. Millis, Short with Taylor Oglesby led the Phis in operating Thompson went to Bristol, Tenn.; a I » Where their deal-}and Paul Behraian
as raeat Ellis, whose’ guest was| > cthe week-end. They were) Anos took a hhinting trip to Thom
: st, Ellis, 7 P Ah at
‘Sia nee a seen at some of the best finishing |. coy, : ass Par ree
Dick Phillips, and Simmons all} _ i Washi asvilley N. C.; and Preston (Kid) : ¥ ;
went to High Point schools in Washington. : Oliver hiked off to Wilmington. :
Yait * Brother Owens made his per Ral CrowellaonyaDarby2ant 4
Sam arborough and George F aT RTS OF aa are qo : arby, a
Jeters-w i : Yavalkexctisionite s racy City, Ten Tom Findley operated high at Car-
Peters went to Blowing Rock for} je..ce. Pledge Wright spent an un-} Weearail hele eeearade OW 0 in r en
a rest, Don Holland and Ashby) qoual week-end in ‘Chattanooga Suna Ge CSS a ree ee i
Dick travelled to Limestone Col-| yithout a date. are still unknown! Ek y
lege in Gaffney, S. C., Pinky Wilson Bier inde Rindges MeLean went to . olumbia, S. C., while Arch in one easy lescon ;
Q iness ; Taylor hit Winston-Salem a glane-
and Bob Amos had - business at plowed through the wilderness -to}]. ” bl Pe RLTAU aes unter
W. G. Birdlegs Pendleton; and} ) noir, Brother Chapman spent his Pe ie “ays . Te Lae ‘ oe Treat yourself and others to
George Ennet had fun way down) iin. in Spartanburg and Brother peens saree see Te Fret ’
. pon . he . Tre > * jus ee ry
at Atlanta, Ga. To Converse went] p13; ed an extended week- | ae ee ses h ] d l W. |
: papa nes Boykin passed an extended Went wuowil who esome, eliclous rig ey S$
Bob Miller, Ben Lacy, Dick Kelly end at his home in Atlanta. Brother ‘Hai oT . ;
and Wilbur Carter. Wileman Ehly| p; ; ; Fox a pee Dick O'Hair “Conversed. le
: ierce followed suit in Farmville. e m
found his way to Baltimore. SAE name of the lucky girl is not re- P armint um. owe to chew.
The pores vealed by special request. Last but
The_chapter_anflounces—no“lort Tlic closiniccorcthe frst Semester rot lea t, Butch Pharr and “Wild e ps eep reat sweet, teet
i ‘ no ‘vast, B e i
Bae: and the:ending ofthe examination) a7 Bellamy graced Rock, Hil ‘
i elas Ma sellam) i
K. A. ae or the eee et a Seer ar eer ecenaes bright. The Flavor Lasts.
P isas ; week i number of the brothers and pleages fi
After a disastrous week of GEN: aking jaunts to various mae ti Finals were rather—trying, but
ing on mid-term exams, the Kappa ve ee ‘ ; : aS m'thinks the week-end was even
: athren. embarke le country.
Alpha brethren embarked upon a igre. 80. he very. end!

week-end of many and varying ex- Brother John Crichton spent the

periences, ranging from dormitory week-end ae Baxter Freeze mn
, 2, : ?
“resting up” to the wildest type of High Point. srother Bill Sprunt
wild hares went home to Winston-Salem as
; did pledges Bob Whaling, Dee
Among those returning home for 2 x : 7%
: eas Dunn, Frank Carter, and Brother
brief visits were Brothers Dunn, = =
: Dick Port Pledge Bill Dunn
Royster, Harris, Houston and}. . : Reavy pes N.C
ped eeanroterekicheson visited his home in Maxton, N.C.
Pledge — tand Pledge Lewis Bibb did-tike-
eee Wrestlers shoal eee varsity | wise in Chattanooga 3en Pitt
mat team, George Councill Ande eiilinroaceuwantahomentorN(eColts S
Turnage, journeyed to V. P. I. for C., and “Red” Bethea was at Dil-
the Gobbler meet along with Coach rare arathenRioner: Hunt
: visited Rab McGeachy in Greens-
Whitley; Barber;. Wilson, G. E.3| boro, and Pledge Jack Lucas stayed
and Welch. The five_most_promis- at the home of Ray Taylor there.
ing freshmen who are trying out Also. in. Greensboro” were ftmer
are: Dunn; Taylor; Allen; King] Graves and Hugh Hill.
and Pharr. Among the many choosing Char-
Below is a schedule of the meets
already planned:
February 11—Wofford at David-|] FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
son,
= A =
a February 21—Presbyterian at P. Sporting Goods
February 28—Clemson at David- :
son. * -O-

March 7—N. C. State at Raleigh.
March 1]—Wofford at Spartan-
burg.
Dates pending:
lotte Rifle and Pistol
Citadel, and V. P. IL.

415 S. Tryon Street

N. C. State, Char-

Charlette, N. C.
Club, The

The good brothers scattered after
their seige of examinations with
celebration on their minds and some
were very successful in their quest.
Besct luck went to Brothérs Martin
and Parks Pledge Tolleson.
Martin to

Pennessee for

and

went home Lebanon,

“a whole week; and
home to

Judging from the

Tolleson went Perry, Ga.,

for a few days

DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

CHARLOTTE’S
LEADING
RESTAURANT

Delicious Food

at

Reasonable Prices-

221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

MAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAL

