ES
PORTS | patie
i S TAR HEELS
POTLIGHT |
By LEGH SCOTT Thursday, November 5, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN aaa
2 e
Victory Is Sweet i
Davidson's victory over the V.M.E Keydets was heralded avi SON Se S Or Irs I N
unprecedented rejoicing at home and abroad. Those return- i x
» tu the campus after the week-end could feel the new spirit z
iImost immediately : Smiles on the coaches’ faces (Coach am

“agers, aud the halelyjai-amen spintameng the swient | POSH Face RED GETS ONE KICKOFF __||Passes Pave Way To

the recognition and pride of a job well done.

Stars in the game were numerous. Probably th S ‘c li Vi
deciding factor was the superiority of the Wildcat ins e aro Ina KCLOEY. Ove eis Keydets
play. ‘the first string linemen literally pushed their Se

opponents all over the field, and the reserves finished Game Tomorrow Afternoon

| Squad S
up the job, with every man who made the trip except eee parernese tiesto Lew.

Begins Homecoming First Half; Then ’Cats

two seeing action. After that first touchdown the Pre Soccer Te eam. Take Over

Wildcat fireworks, suppressed so far all season, broke Festivities

loose with all their fury. Davidson's surprising Wildkittens | E h ds Ss eason gan Se ation eres

; : ; | thick real chened last Satura

‘John Frederick and Buck Williams turmetin-outstanding ily Dicey UU Uae neuee aiueer in Lexington, and_ it sht th
pertormanees in +the—-backtfield. Freddy really. found himselt },o" the home field Friday afternoon Booters Lose Final Game At} 8 )Us Wildeats thew initial yi
Saturday, tossing a pass for the first touchdown, kicking three ]in their fourth encounter of the Chapel Hill tory of the season as they down
eXtra points, and playing a general bang-up game. Buck, who }season. ghl V.M.I. team 24
Hurned out tobe very much eligible in spite of statements made the Biddle Gable ; a piraaeneL Lue OCCU SLCEU LN
n this column dast week, was outstanding for his pass defense enced Pa badass he ete coated bya veterans Over a

ne of his*weaknesses in the past), intercepting three Keydet powerful yearling aggregation in Preston, wound up the current

ppu a 3-0 de

jverials, and for his passing, which is a newly assumed duty. He} the Southern Conference, have two

heaved a beauty to Pat Williams (not his brother, incidentally ) | wins under their belts to date. They P aay Tuleh fo 2° eomsoeambaasmmch oe aa1! 40
lor a scoreand completed several others. George Peters turned | Gyened by. defeating a serwice team Nereis Stl | THe IK s ¢
Mm osemespretty running trom: the tailback position fae se The Wildeats, arriving in Chapel} vices « ar, Joltin
: : of former professionals and college Hill-early Saturday ‘morning, wer ry :
: arly Saturday orning, ©T Joc Muha, Who spent most of the
We Can Do It Again stars irom Daniels Air Station, consequently handicapped by the] var Mul it
It has been shown that the Tar Heels are beatable, 42-0, The Chicks followed this up loss of sleep However, the ‘Cats me for a few minut
and it has also been proved that Davidson can win one. with a smashing 19-6 win over their made a tine showing before bowing the second half, but
The feeling is spreading on the campus that the Wild- powerful arch-rivals, the Clemson to the, Cadegsy who boasted a two badly, and confined
cats, if they play like they did last week, have an Cubs. goal ead at halitime The Pre=| activities largely to passing
excellent chance to take the Tar Heels. Speed and Outatkuding Baal Hight boys chalked up a score in Vv. M. I. Score
deception are being stressed in the drills this week, : : the openingg moments of the fray i ee
. : 13 é The South Carolina Frosh are led i V.M.1L.-opened: the
with razzle-dazzle galore embodied in the new plays, and tallied their other marker mid

by three outstanding backs: Bettis first period when

some of them suggested by Ga. Tech. Carolina will get

ry 5 Herlong, Billy Rutland, and Jack yothe second period—tn a scrap | completed a 12 yard pass fo Bil
a warm reception in Charlotte Saturday. ee ore the Davidson goal, a Wild \ ; eae
ns Crouch, all of whom have seen ee ; ; Clark in the end zone. The Keydet
Odds and Ends service with the varsity this year shal Ak oval through his ee were never’ able’ to threaten set
. . ° . P $498 : Wiphits to awecout ur Ub adets } \\ }
State and Carolina furnished one of the most thrilling] Up front, the line is paced by Pat ait tecouI Lor tN CAGES Lrenedymigeeie;—as the Wildcats piled
games seen in this section in recent years. Faircloth’s sneak] Thrash at end, and, in the South bow up a big advantage in the statistic
through Carolina’s line for a touchdown with the ball behind | Carolina tradition, a great center in Despite the taet—that the “Cats lohniy brederich i
S , ped onl ol r 1 t
his back was one for the- books. Both teams put on a dazzling | Cleve Putnam. BAU CM ee LS OAT RL EU 0

passing show just before the half. With two minutes to go,} South Carolina will shaw a dazz ti hey nevertheless turned in] gecounted tor ‘ Davidsor

: ¢ + - . : 4 reditabl ) oO "Ss . F ; Sia tet Hraty| }

the Wolves connected with one for a score; and immediately fol-]iing attack with their Notre Dame Phas : : : edittble performancesein all their} score in the third quarter when he
j j ff ; gp) eet dson led roots lars Eee j 3 1

lowing the kickoff Austin took a long-yone for a T.D. with }shifts, spreaders, and flankers. As : AT Davidson downed —High}ihrew a perfect ird p t

Red Bethea continues to kick for the Wildcats with amazing con-] loin, “\ 4-2 in their be t exhtbi Fommy Peters,
sistency as evidenced above. He will turn this skill on the Tar Heels | ;;,,,, ‘
Saturday in an effort to keep their backs against the wall. With his old

seconds remaining, Carolina had one pass play, right up the}do the Kittens, they will probably
middle, which they worked three times and almost wrecked] throw the ball around consider.

They were trounced twice by] further to cross

State in the last quarter. Beware, ’Cats, of those aerials! ably. injury practically well, he should see plenty of heavy duty this week at aut eae eae Sra and) then kicked the placement to
: a : I onee by igh Point College the Waildeats ahead
Mac Bruce”s leg injury has failed to heal properly, Leading the Kittens in every game his oldiline-bagking job: Obs vik apa tl Tne pee Fiat Roll
and he will be lost to the team for the rest of the to date have been Gwynn Fletcher rie tet eal da ul \ t iter ‘the fourt
; : ; May Gees : 2c turning ettermen, were uccesslu few tmimutes atter he our
season. Gene Bingham has given up school in favor and Roland Paylor, two fine pack : 9 rh e in turnings out a@ promising team,] quarter began Dick Deshazo fum
of the Naval Air Corps. The loss of both these men will gid Hugh MeArn, Johnny Walker, a Ss Cet Cc I a Gvcir HOUBIis thes SUcbteret = Genie Wied cleduibethuale detatetieatiees
be sorely felt in the remaining games. However, “Ace” Lowrey Stafford, and Grover In posed chiefly of Sophomores, were} zone, “and Bill Dunn recovered

Maloney has reported for practice and will be available gram in the line. a bit shy of experience for the second Dayidson touch

for action, his chief talent being his passing ability. Teeter In Bosesauiien Tilt Oliver and Preston, eprin and) ¢owm frederick gain sent

Attention is here called to the Davdson broadcast origin Betas S A E Ss inanayer respectively, paced their] Placement squ ely through th
ating from WBT Thursday night at 6:15, details of which 9 e e ° eee . . wil L 7 team throughout the season, Coon rights. :
i Ee Revived Wildcats Seek Second)... conter. MeMullen and Swink,{ Luck Williams,

ippear: elsewhere on this page e : ' er
Irehi in closi ; ; sof, ; Tied For Lead DAVIDSON COACHES Coe eT Ra Over halthacks, and Linton, inside, were ser sia wil

Orchids in closing to the Charlotte papers for their gen- onsistent. performers while line-| the final, Wildeat
erous write-ups on Saturdays game, ntercepted a V.M.I

3eta Theta Pi moved a step near- Davidson and North Carolina} men MeWeithan was outstanding of sak
: (This is the second in a series Of tangte he akedho adnate ete fansively tien completed the
er Jermanent possession ol} first angle tor the dsth time in the fea ’ : ;
: ee coaches of Wildcat . - 0 Pale pass to Pat Williams

ture attraction of Davidson's Home

A ; briefs on t
place in the intramural tootball isi We

teams for thes benefit of new end zone, and Frederick's

Coming celebration at Charlotte's} tack has bogged down in the past

OUT FOR SEASON

standing with an easy win over the

Pikas. Walker, Schmidt, Ransom, comers to the campus). Memorial Stadium Saturday atter-]tew > games, but the Wildeat tor. pavement Oe ofthe
and Company had little trouble in LAURENCE SPEARMAN noon wards will be Hard-pressed to stop i 5 Fea ey ae Se
winning their game from the Pikas, Native of Newberry, S. C, and Fresh) from their—upset- yietory | the hard-eharging Carolina Tine} °" = ———— rm : a :
30-0, Was graduated from Newberry col-| over favored V.M.L last week-end, finen and backs | AD N 3 ari : ae ve ‘ hae ae
By winning two games last week | [¢s* Was a three-sport man there, | tie “Cats will be striving desper \ urs spirit has ery pe 1 ap ie ta t ei Sc 1 ‘ ' (
the S.A.E.’s moved into a tie with | meking several All Qtate selections ately to turn back the Tar Heels} th, mo ocampus during / the r, but fell 1 to end the-sca
the Betas. The S.A.E.’s took a cldse| in football, He coached football} for the clirst’ time since 1930 When} week. and the ‘Cats, with-no-ser 3 :
one from the Phi Gami's, 8-6, and] #d other sports at Chester High| they eked out a 7-6 win, Coach] jous injuric nd plenty of tricks in Davidson's enti 1 in
also took the measure of the Inde-} Scheel in Chester, 5. C., for nine JEAN Heels, ‘boasting an out-] ye hag, are primed for another big | _, él ball, but Buel Seat
pendents, 18-0. The S.A.E.’s appear} Years During this time his football] standing carly season record, will upset | ;

to have the best chance. to stop the eleven tasted defeat only , four} be out to re-establish much-needed

Betas. The Kappa Sigs kept up| 'mes and wou the State champion-} prestige after sullering two succes
beating the] sip several times He acts as end] sive deteats in as many wee k ends
Carolina's respect for the Wildcats

Ii Ed. Mellon Co. oi

The Carolina’s Leading Men's Store

their steady pace by
Phi Gams, 12-0. The Kappa Sigs are} Coach, but this year is assuming
of the line coaching duties] Was greatly increased after David

in third place and have an outside | Ost

ehance: tONWinh i lue to Coach Chapman’s absence. | S025 win ot last Week. Their® pass
He is also freshman track coach ing attack, which was so effective Th Ri h
K.A.’s Fourth eee _ a in the closing minutes of the State e 1g t
The K.A.’s moved into undisputed TRUE TOE same, will be utilized to the fullest,
possession of fourth place by win. While “the: ‘Cats, with everything to SPORT COATS

ning from the S.P.E.’s while the ain, may be expected to toss the

pigskin around themselves.) Coach and -

SLACKS

for campus and

Phi Gams fell into the sxith spot
after losing two games to the K,
Sigs and the-S, Piss

3y virtue’ of witis over the Phi
Delts and the, S.P.E.’s the Pi’ Kaps
are in fifth place. The -Phi—Delts,

Mckyver is concentrating on a new

rick pla and the fans are

assured of a pen game
Carolina Stars

Bie gun of the Carolina attack weekends—

miuns Maloney—-the Independents

and the S.P.E.’s are in a deadlock

for sixth place. The Pikas still hold

tightly to the cellar.

which is built around a@ sturdy bunct

| P ittle Billy . ;
of Sophomores, is little Billy Myer Tietuaniveracketanteelacies
Lexington, who sparked the Tar RTT d oun Grace Daridcon
Heels Offense against State. Joe ae Heedemande tis

Austin, slowed up by injuries Pre
cently, and hot and cold “Shot”? Cox
share the backfield honors, wath
Myers. Tatum also brings a*pair of
excellent kickers, Mike Cooke and
Bill Sigler, to vie with Davidson's

to be exactly right in style

RADIO BROADCAST

A pep meeting extraordinary

and quality and he knows

4 Said j
what-is- tithtt:that’s why

his clothes at

is scheduled to come off to- OS

MeltorrssStudent’s Depart

night at 6:15 p. m,.when*-e ment; Come in and see

contingent from the college will . | Bethea for the honors in that de

broadcast) over ctation AWBIr JOHNNY FREDERICK ' partment. The Carolina running at-

1110 on your dial. This group will . 5 S
facile (Cdaches Mcbver, Shap: A Davidson Institution

ard, and Spearman, and several Tharmacy

of the football squad, all of
DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE

whom will make talks. A part of
One Block From The Bus.-Station

what a swell selection we

are showing

Sport Coats
$15.00 to $26.00

Slacks ——.-$5.00-$10.00
Loafer Coats $8.95-$11.95
Fingertips ___$9.50-$25.00
Sweaters __- $1.95-$17.50

the band will go along to add
“oomph” to this super of all pep

inspiring agencies.

On Monday night, Coaches

a McEver and Shepard of David- Two Doors From Southern Depot
1 son. and backfield coach, Grady 2nd floor
3 “ Pritchard, of Carolina, parti- Don’t be AVE Fd M. ll C
t i A
— se ras . ; cipated in the program of the a AFELY e on O.
ee : : r ba Charlotte Quarterback Club, ;
“Ss Mac Bruce, above, is expected to be out of action for the remainder|| along with a representative of “sap” APP S CUT RATE DRUGS Open Thursdays ’till 9 CHARLOTTE

of the season due to a leg injury. The senational scat-back, eee has|/ the Carolina Pre-Flight School.
bee: id t ble “T Laff hi , has had a hard i
I ccosce aod bat nirente bec arias ‘cideitass tar uverel wrecks Opposite MENG Ce vil Anne

