Page Two

Thursday, October t, 1942

; THE DAVIDSONIAN —
The Bavidsonian /Ghe DAVIDSONIAN resents |
ae Editorials ---- Setters ---- Features:
Associated Collesiale Press : ee - iA

Distributor of

-__Gollesiale Digest

Published Weekly “For a Betted Davidson”

a \
Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North- Carolina

oma

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

AEPREDENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTIGING BY

. ee *

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE. New York. N.Y.

CHICaco - BOSTON + LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

Opportunity

\

ltach year Davidson has séveral serics
of musieal and cultural entertainments.
Some are better than others. Some come
highly recommended and prove disap-
pointing. while others turn eat to be
genuine dark horses. Nearly all of the
musical programs hold a high reputation
among the musically educated, although
we of the lay public may attend on iaith.

-—- What we are driving at‘is that it is
"indeed unusual that a southern college

should be fortunate enough to seeure a
program that should hold the sure fire
appeal to its envire student body that the
planned sehedule announced recentty by

S THE AVERAGE STUDENT CRAMMING FOR,
NS EXAMS LOSES TWO POUNDS IN WEIGHT,

u .
handsome devil you. I bet you're
canaking hundreds of girls jeatous,
just like poor little me.” °°

Maizic kept up this Steady Fire.
-forabout-20- minutes, and-then Prot.
Dee, who was watching her close-
ly, whispered to me, “Here comes
the Assault!”

Whereupon Maizie leaned ever so

close to. Jim, slipped her hand under
the table into his, and started whis-

monotones,
{ Shémy she straightened up and
* wok two_sips of_water_from_her
glass, which was the Prearranged
Signal to us for Victory. We saun-
ered over to the table, Chapman
returned td his, and Pof. Dee said
to Maizic, “You were superb to-

night, Miss Flower. But have you
remembered Security?”
“Oh, yes, [ have sufficient dates

with him before the actual dance.’

“What is Security?” 1] asked her.

“Oh, that’s keeping his interest
up until the dance is over”

“And how do you ga about doing
that?” o

“How do most girls keey most
boys interested?” —

“Oh really?” ‘1 said, significantly.

pering to-him in-husky,—love-sick. — At—that point she_glanced_at_my.
fraternity pin, and asked, “Is that

a Gamma Phi pin?’
“Why, yes.”

“Oh, you dahling, dahling boy,”
she said, suddenly taking an inter-
est-in me. “I think the Gamma Phi's
give the most won-n-nderful dances,
you gay old devil you.”

o «
‘Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Dr: Cunningham niust. ‘ l
ue Ser of ; ust ® 2,250,000 LS. OF COLLEGIANS® FLESH — per a ing Table
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 187%. ¥Ve were rather disappointed that only : WILL VANISH DURING FINAL. EXAMS / e °
= -,: ( . Ri SOE By ?.?,?
ER ERWIN EDITORIN-cHiEF 329 tiekets have been subseribed. We NSSSS a

BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Lacy’ Melean eo... Assistant Editor

thought that the Scoteh blood within so
many of our siudent veins would recog-

nize the opportunity of secing the entire
group of distinguished artists for what

qu wo \

Aiter the number one deal to
date, the littke man who wasn't
there, but who sees nothing and

Next we travel to the Dick Rey-
nold’s Country Club where a fair
gathering was assembled including

Sprunt, Brinson, Chap-a,.and Sut |

HW Mel } \ i knows all, happens to be holding
enry McIntosh... ssociate ve . ’ . . . ape: I faire
Jimmy “Fuleher. ssociate~ Editor WOHId be the “per ducat” price every- ' Re Che e some dope on’ dealers, old and new. the i win mempers of the aires
thre elites -Maniging Editor . _.TESTS_ARE NOY. PRINTED IN INK THAT Before the cutting starts,-however, -- sex. Here they held ort n fonsevera
Howell Morrow... Managing Editor where clse. HE COLLEGE STANTS. TUENG BLUE OR PED EN NE let us express our appreciation to hours with true Fitzgerald philoso-
fone sey ae wane rane - If we were to atiss the opportunity 10 c FOR EY AAINA OF SUDEAT CHECKS TRE ANSWER SION, the lassies at Salem College for a phy until a couple of the Davidson
1 stson “Managine. Editce r thi ' : : —— . cend. = _wentlemen_decided_that iv would be
Deane Whitson... Managing Editor get this series here this year by Eailure lovely, lovely weekend. __ Retee vcrenade the witle of Salen
Legh Scott Svorts Editor : » gene . .
Hob Welsb- Stai? Photoecauher 40 Stbseribe our quota of 450 tickets it Although your reporter was not

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Managers...

Advertising Manager...
Circulation—Memnmrper_
Uirculation Manager.i..
Sobseription Manager...

ewemenbick Port

-Don Melver

Teensy Hodges
John -Robinson

oe ca eeee. Jim Harris’

would certainty be a black eye to the
reputation of the Davidson cultural taste,
as well as a slr on our individual bar-
gaining powers.

While perusing a recent wssue of
the Charlotte newspaper, my oye
happened to glanced at an articie con-

Sly

By BILL LYMAN

me_

numbered among that precious
company, he has heard about the
fine hospitality and the beautiful
women who reside in the hallowed
halls of ole Salem. Enough of this
sentimentality .lest we wax too
sweet,, with so much filth flying

. asked. taking notes as rapidly as
possible.

for their luscious time. This song-
fest came to an abrupt end when
Wilbo and Mot, a perfect cxample
of dirty Dan Cupid's work, decided
that they wanted to be alone; throw-
ing the canaries the well-known wet
blanket.

: . : “ANT That is evenymore important . we ‘ - B¥uce and Bethea, the two humor
Cotlection Manager... 2. Ruddy Carson Wild Cc t s . ‘t tverning the in: than physical camouflage. Miss around Just waiting to be put mnto men, were finding great sport se-
1 a piri calling oof! a Flewer here, for instance,. isa. POM —— ——-euring “Zoot-Suit” Burke the “best-.
- rT ereerees . . rane . - ve . ” . . oe
“ : - e%  COUTSeS Wy brilliant girt=-makes all A's, But if First, we find on the streets of looking” girls on the floor as his
mo 7 _ Jack WwW ayman and his Fuates are to be Vie enPriculam — World never \dostor any man to" Winston-Salem — fone other than  datcing Partners whenever the
Bread and Butter congratulated tor one of the most sue Chicora Col- wee it, She must always appear Lacy MaéLean, Byrn, and Page Har-  “wiristle blew. This pul quite ; Strain
. . . : ; ; A . ak amb—nay. stupid! Miss Flower, ris, looking for “dates”. Things pro-- on Davidson's little center; he was
Our first editorial duty of the cessiul pep mectings in a nuniber of 7 Nha ae Shall test you now on mental Gressed nicely and before Jong listed as missing in actiow at prac-
week, we tecl, comes under the head of Years. and the student body as a whole can warthen camouilage. Have you-read any Bayru and Lacy were about to tice Monday. ;
“bread and butter”. We would like to is to be commended for the spirit in. lesrned that the? | venessont achieve their geal. Rut the payoi Spike Mebane had the intellectual
es . tai ; ‘ “Oh ves 14 ic. i a- then L: saw the “dates” type this ayeekend, a Madame Du-
: \ urse woe 1 yes.i replied Mazic, in va eame when Lacy ss t
thank the gisis of Salem College who so which they ioined in the rally.” curse was en-

Although working at a disadvamage.

titled “Compara. 2 C#Mtly knowing tones, “I think he’s

‘fram the front and duckéd into an

vall, in the person of a petit school-

graciously went toa great deal of trouble Bill Lyman tive Straieyy,  .on-wenderial He writes in Lib- alley leaving “good ole Bayru” lit- marm Who iriedto give Spike ve
to show us a good time. both as to score and the elements, that and that i was based) in keeping STUY doesn't he? ; erally holding the bag. qence te cone We are glad to say that right
same spirit lasted remarkably through with the times, entirely on military “Perfect. Miss Siéwer. And now  tound Bayru wandering through the sons Marat he the

The whole show was well planned and p y 8 Ermciples. Nothing else was told we shall go to the Estimate of the streets of Winston with two strange triumphed and Marvin caugh

exccuted, in spite of the unfavorable ezr-
cumstances of the weather, Hitler, and
the Greyhound Bus Company. \e re-
gret that all could not have enjoyed the
visit to the Twin City, but we hope that
the sponsors of the affair fecl repaid by
the good time that was had by all who

a memorable Saturday afternoon.
This Saturday the Vildeat drive will

receive its first reat test of the year—

when the Cats meet Roilins in our first
home (well, near home) game.. Let's
keep that same spirit both at the contest
and at the pep meeting Friday,

of the course itscli the only othes

inforination fa the article Stating
that atl studems were required to
take it and thai it was being taught
hy Proi, PL IL. vee,

Ry ri. curious comcidence, for
days'Ghefore 4 happened to run
across this news Them, 1 had in
vain racked my brain in an effort

“—Viftition 16 the Tall Delta PAT-ormal.

women, calling mournfully for Mac-
Lean. ~

Situation, Give me the five-para-
Praph form thereof.7

“Well, first, there's’ the Mission.
My mission ;tontgh: is 10 get an in-

Uctore 1] go to the sevortd -para-
eraph, however, 1 mug Recon-
noitre.. Whereupon she casually
glanced about the raom, missing no

—~Cinema_ Comments

By LACY MacLEAN

twelve o’clock bus back to Davidson
~—Sucker !

r

_

. . . 5 i : . - . on Thursday tal. of interesting information... The *
: As Wayman pointed out, the Wildeat  '° lind a subject to write on tor one, and spied a Delts’ Phi, Jim , «hee
did get there. TT mint y P ner b a research paper. due shortly. My  Chaptnan, sitting with three other BERLIN CORRESPONDENT “ry s based which actual om ‘
We hope chat we wilt have an oppor- SPF! is nor a one year proposition but a pian, accordingly, was to imske an Davidson men in a corner. .* hacked i a vad i Me s vieon ene
sag . , ; oo ° e fan Say ua -
tunity to be hosts at a return engage- Cour year contract. Let's keep em TOH- actual trip to Chicora and learn all Maizie continued her recitation. A thrill packe ted , ® 4 '
y 8 8 in’ aver Rollins’. about the new war-inspired course, “Second, there is the Sittation and drama of. the o'Pa  M r d Tuesd
ment and that ours may have a portion and to take my indings the suh — Opposing Lines of Agtion. The sit- “work of news. TALK OF THE TOWN
of the success that was theirs. Jectvot my treatise, uation .ist that there is a Deha men in @ war- Les
. Sympathy Whertfore on the tollowing atter- Phi here and that he is without a torn country. A modern story revolving around

The Court

. - Ow,
(he Davidsonian wishes to extend

noon Tf went to Charlotte, cangit a
bus out to ae college cainpus, and,
upon inquiry, - found

my ways to

date. 1 have two oppasing lines of
a¢tion: to go over to his table. or
to get hina to’ come ovgr here. For

A story with all
-the~ glamor

a good plot. Just what you need
ta take your mind off the war. Good

a . . sympathy io the families of two of its Prof. Dee's Sfiice. He was a very the third paragraph, te Analysis which Newspa- ° cast and Prey ot humor. ¥
One of the most important phases ai and Davidson's best friends. young professor, just out of grad. of Opposing Lines of Action -it 1 en con- PRIORITIES ON PARADE
the training ofa college man is his diret The name of Dr. S. C. lyon needs wo Mite school, and had-a very pleas- co aver theteghe will think awe for- lovee ete. 8 hips erp a
* ¢ : . . ing manner. i 2 sate if en . ee ioral As —— --
tion during his freshman year. Proper editorial eribute to keep his memory alive aiid explained Wir mieeion cnee aearth sehereas iT tune him here, Lacy Maclean well. Double feature day comes through:
discipline during this period may have a_ in the hearts of students, faculty, and ine his scourse in Comparative The “Toiitth” paragraph includes wriday and Saturday * with a good show. Preston Foster

great deal to do not only with his success-
ful adjustment to campus life but to his
future life as well.

The responsibility for this discipline
at Davidson is vested'in the Court of
Control, the importance of whose work
is often underrated. We are prone to
look on this group as an instrument for
Freshman baiting”, and to shout lustily

for “Silvertongue” in chapel while we

Iriends who. knew him. Sixteen years
of faithiut and open hearted service is
enough to.endear a man of his caliber
to the host with which he came in con-
tact on this campus, and to make him
missed in memories of those far from
the campos now.

For those who were noteso, fortunate
as to fecl his influence directly, he was

simply the kind of man that left David-~

Strategy. “You are indeed here at
a most opportune moment.” he
said, “for tonightwe hold individual
lab for Miss Mrefe TP lower, a soph--
omore Will you met us ‘at. the
Tavern at 9:307" ~ "ow

“At the Taveri?” I Said “What
kind of a course % this?”

“Here <at_Chicora,” replied Prot.
Dec, “we believe in progressive edu-
calion. This is a course on how to

dupe stag lines and influence men. ,

The entire system is based oa mifi-

; EAGLE SQUADRON
Analysis of Own Lanes ot Action, * Q * °

wherein T know from past action
that it is best for the man to think
himselé ee great wooer, and tnat
he not know thafs hecis. being
wooed, And so my Decision, or fifth
point. is to lure him over here.”
Whereupon she watched Chapman
until she caught his eye—then gave
him a quick; brilliant smile of joy,
as though she had. just recognized
him, and couldn't’ stand life another
moment .for the pure ecstacy of his

Dianna Rarrymore heads the cast
ofthis timely” adventure story. Packs
plenty of excitement with a good

Books from the late Dr. McCon-

and Brenda Joyce carry the lead
assignments in the Number One
attraction. There’s' another show.
and all for 17¢

Coming Soon: WAKE ISLAND.

Ys Corner

__... By SHAW SMITH

full of things to do on the socially

tary strategy. A patriotic motif, sight. This was soon folldwed by a nell’s library are going fast. The approved side. Watch for ‘em.
forget the more serious purpose of the son better for his having lived and served  you_see."_ _ ~ sort of daring, half-wicked wink -at- ow prices just don’t fit: By the by, 7Priestly Conyérs, _Chapel-Speaker=

Court.

Davidson is in reality a very demo-
cratic school. 1t has practically no haz-
ing of any kind and very few regulations
which differentiate the first year men
from the upper classes. The few rules
we have are designed to make the Fresh-
men respectful and courteous, regardless
of the example we upperclassmen set at
times.

It is up to us, therefore, to cooperate
with Joe McCoy as far as possible and
to make the Freshman training a serious
matter. There ‘is no reason why we
should feel like heels when we report in-
fractions. Theoretically, it is for the
good of the Freshmen. Let’s make it so
in practice. - oe

here.

Fhe other friend of whom we spoke
was Mr. M. F. ‘Dunbar, of the Dunbar
tudios in Charlotte. Few students came
into close contact with him and conse-

-Quently do aot realize the services, not
only in the line of business, but also as
a genuine and devoted friend of the
college and its students, tharMy. Dunbar
rendered to them.

A college must have an excellent fac--

ulty and @ well-rounded student body to

gain any sort of reputation, but the will-

ingness of its friends to stand up for it
and its. sons goes a long way toward
sustaining this reputation. We are ap-

preciative of such friends as Mr. M. F._
{

Dunbar, _

~ |owas at the Tavern pronipily ai
9:30, and inga short while Prof. Dee
entered, escorting a most ravishing
lemale. He introduced me. to ‘her,
and she was the expected Maizie
Flower, a terrificly attractive young
lady.

They sat down, and Prof. Dec;
hégan explaining to me how-—they
worked the comparative strategy.
“First- of all.” he said; “she must
use Camouflage, a, very important

phase of Comparativé Strategy:

There are two types of camouflage
-physical and mental. For physical
camouflage she uses all
beauty treatments to make her ap-

pear desirable and glamorqus. We.

train the girls carefully oh every
phase of make-up—the correct lip-
stick, rouge, powder, mascara. Then
they must fix their hair in the most
becoming style, and, of course, wear.
“revealing clothes.” -

’ “But what is mental camouflage?”

kinds of—

claim your nidcy “or your unsold
books. Only a few days left. Of all
books sold. only about four mis-
placed If form runs true, they'll
show-up within a few days as soon
as you check your book and your
pocketbook, Could you have for-
gotten to pay—huh? a
Thanks, Dr. F. Johnston, for tak-
ing on a big job. Our Sunday School
class needed you and thanks are
not enough. (Course, who'll tend the
baby—Congratulations !—if the Mrs.
decides to come to hear you?)
Monk Caterson, between trips to
G'boro, and Buddy Wells have made
a good beginning-on Hall Prayer
Groups. Reports from the first week
mighty encouraging. I'm honest in

limi—then a. faint blush as though
embarrassed by her audacity.

“This 73 “te Approach,\’ whisper-
ed Prof. Dee. “And now you and
1 must go-ayt as though to make a
“phone call, so Miss Flower will be
alone in possession of the Terrain.”

Prof.,Dée and I made our Retreat
‘rather ostensibly, but then slipped
back: in through a side door and
stood behind a pillar, where, unseen,
We could hear, and obsepve all that .
went on.

By that time Chapman was at our
table, sitting with Mazie.

“Now comes the Advance,” whis-
pered Prof. Dee. .

And we heard Maizie, looking at
Jim as though being with him was
just the final aim of all existence, saying that these meetings have
say, “You dahling, dahling boy. 1 possibilities of being part of your
think you're gawWgeous to come over— best-to be gotten at Davidson.
here and protect little bitty old ~ -Alf “Algie” Taylor wants ideas
lonesome me. I certainly have been for the Chribtmas Gift Fund this
missing you lately, you gay old - year. Got any? Jesse Wooten is

getter and man with pressed suits
has just drifted in. Have a pen,
Priest-!

That's Smith for you, wants to
catch the flicker so he leaves the
“Y" Corny—The “Y" Corner to the
first’ man who comes along—I
. shouldn't have come along! ,

Would like to thank Jesse Woot- ’

en for good Chapel talk Friday.
While on the subject, let me plug
my “dept.” If you have anything

‘you want to get off your chest that '
might help us, (or otherwise) let™

us know. You're the man we want.

“Hate to put a knife in his back,
but can't turn down this opportun-
it to dig dirt on Smith. We're told
he and the leftenant pulled a fast

one last weekend. The game, then —

G'boro, and one of the crowd came
hack with a Georgia accent.

Johnny Sherrill just in. Says he’s
not holding any dope. Neither am I.
Hope this is enough.

t.
