men.

Page Two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, October 29, is

The PMavidsouian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published Bi-Monthly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

Charlotte, North Carolina
&

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Ten cents per copy. §$.75 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTIGING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave.. New YorK, N. Y.
Cwicaco + BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAM FRAncisco

at the Post Office
Carolina, under the act of March 3,

Entered as second-class matter
Davidson, North

at
1879

BOB PIERCE
BOB CUSHMAN

Bintusipsaeuagepaessnuu saeaee EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
crm brcrers erm ever BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Dave CRichatdion: sess csees cas cos cceeleece Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson. 22.22.22. 6s-cscnecnspocccnon Managing Editor
George Apporson

John. Ashe

Retabdcsseauusctaccenae Senses. Managing Editor
oe [i pinasheanunmnannaedassesesescoee POres |e Editor

Freshmen

We of the Davidsonian staff would like
to offer a sincere, though belated, greeting
to the Class of 1947, :

Perhaps never before in the history of
the college has there been stich a class as
yours. Few of yourexpect-to-graduate-War-}
is everywhere before us, even here on the
once peaceful Davidson Campus in the
form of the Cadet School. The atmosphere
itself is filled with uncertainty. However,
this need not deter you from what would
have been and, in fact, should be now your
purpose in coming to Davidson---to pre-
pare yourself for your later life. If you
will put forth a conscientious effort, those
few months while you are here can be the
mést fruitful ones in your entire life.

Put aside all these high-school-attitudes
which some of you still have and become
Never before in the history of our
_ nation has there been such a drastic need
for leaders, now and after the war. These

leaders will of necessity ceme from the

ranks of us young men. We cannot prepare
ourselves for such a responsibility by mak-
ing college a social whirlpool.
to ourselves, our families, our nation, and
our God to successfully meet this challenge
to America’s young manhood.

To The Upper Classmen

We, of the present student generation of
the upper classes at Davidson College, are
faced with a responsibility, the scope of
which few of us realize.

It has become our lot to instill into the
minds of the freshmen a respect and a love
for Davidson’s heritage and traditions. Not
only must this be done by a group which is
smaller than the freshman class, but it must
be done within the space of a few short
months before the majority of us leave col-
lege. The task that is set before us is
Herculean in its proportions, but we can-
not, we must not shirk this responsibility.

We must show them that at Davidson
there are traditions and beliefs that are
greater than themselves, that it is a part of
Davidson tradition that all Davidson men
exhibit friendliness, the ability to assume
responsibility, the willingness to work, and
the proper respect for authority.

It is only through a concerted effort on
the part of the upper classes and a cor-
responding mental receptiveness on the
part-of-the freshmen-that-this-can_be_ac-
complished.

Homecoming

Homecoming is here again. Perhaps
not the same homecoming it has been in
former years,. perhaps not the same it
would have been. And yet it has some
features which should make it the best in
‘the-history-of-the-heliday-

The returning alumni will miss the an-
nual tour around the campus, the festive
atmosphere that- the fraternities always
provided, and most of all the handshakes
of friends, cut off by the circumstances
which mar the celebration. The older
classes will notice vacancies in seats that
have not been empty at a homecoming since
the graduation’ of their respective years.
The later generations will see chairs vacant
in tribute to their owners, defending the
ideals of which the reunion is evidence.

Yet the celebration will not lose its most
valuable aspects. It should not be the
environment, but the fellowship, that pro-
vides the spirit of the occasion.

We would like to assure our alumni that
any visit from them on this occasion, for
whatever reason, will be considered a

We owe it |

special homecoming.

°Y’ Corner

by ED. PATTERSON

In keeping with the times, the Y
started the school year with some
doubts. In particular, the office oi
General Secretary’ was uncertain.
Shaw Smith had completed his valu-
able Work at the end of summer
school, and Myron Sandifer was to
carry on until the Navy called him
into active service. Sandy received
his call one week after school start-
ed, but during that time he had set
the wheels in motion—the freshman
were successfully oriented, and the
Y cabinet was organized.

Weil will miss Shaw and Sandy a
great, deal, But, it is an ill wind
that blows no good. The good aris-
ing from this situation, is that the
present Secretary is waite other than
our own pastor, Carl Prichett. He
has a lot to give to the Y and to
every man in the student body.

Cabinet Good

Another bright spot in the picture
is the Y Cabinet. A large part of
the work rests upon these men.
Everyone of them is willing and able
and solid, through and_ through.
Just one example: The attendance
at hall prayer meetings has in-
creased noticeably this year.

Dr. Smart Popular

Looking forward to the Fall Serv-
ices, let us be prepared with prayer
and thought to take from these
meetings a good portion of the
treasure that will be there for us.
For factual references about Dr.
Smart, see “Who’s Who in Ameri-
ca”, Sidelight; his wit and wisdom
have made him one of the most
popular campus speakers in the
country.

_Homecomimg Plans
Bill Smith is completing plans for _

| .Eriday...night..activi-ies—on—.Home-....

coming week-end. The noise of a
big pep rally can be heard already.
Ah yes! Bon fire, shirt-tail, re-
freshments in the~Guest House, etc.
Who isn’t going to have fun!!! (The
girls will-enjoy it, too.)

Note in passing: the fine spirit of
co-operation and determination in
the student body.

Footnote in passing: how well
the Mighty Potentate Royster is
liked by the freshman class despite
his keen interest in judicial duties.

Yours,
Ed Patterson

You need those extra smokes per
pack if you're a student at David-
son College! A survey revealed that
if you buy one pack, you're almost
sure to have one-quarter of the
weeds bummed before the last one
is gone. Definitely, two can’t smoke
as cheaply as one! -
