ee

ne OTe Sa cog
— 7 Ghe@aty wary i -

Volume ID

EDA DSON, NC, THORS DAY SS ULY I

VSS Fy At QQ

NS VAS x J (hed FAs a

.
e

NP me 7 Tt
' oe

47 ee 8 MAINS ae ee ee.

STUDENT COUN@IL CHOSEN STUDENTS TO CELEBRATE
FOURTH AT HARRIS LAKE =

a

ey Loo Fo fi a

ewe)

° In tha voting during the Past two weeks
o

ihe following were clected to the Student This Saturday all thowghts of Davidson

Council Tor the Sumacr Session: Fhea Studonis will be contered dt Farris Lake

Preston, John Belk, Raph-Coonvad, Phoa where tho "jumping" July Jantoros will tako
HAGR Oy—SSDSyY_ oA GT, Hank: aut, -Buddy—. | place, Thora, beside the clear waters of

Js, Nell Sterhens, and Millie Brenizcz, | the Lake, the studonts will sock relaxs-

rONELT, GF Presivent—of the-Siudent_Body,{tior_and rost irom tho studies and heat

“G4 gutomatioenlly the President of the of Davidson. a
wouer) and Millic Brenizer has been clee~| The plans aro forall going to mect in
“set Seevetaryh 2 | frontOot the Y at 4 o'clock whore the.

fhe council took their onth of officc transportation will bo waiting, From the

~ fweagay's chapel, and will function Y the group will wrocecé to Earris Laka

“ith whe powers and respomsibilitics of ana@ to the racrcation of swimnins. Follo-
the regular Student Council, As stated jwing swimming a picnic supper is planned

in the Constitution—of the Student Govern! through the management of: Jerzy Newbold
HOGS it shall be the duty of the Stu- anc tho cooperation or the Boarding Hou

dent Council to reecive, prefer, and try | S68. The evening will bo brought + .
Iny cn.rgc3 against a studont for viola wlose with music -and prancing in the pa-
tioh of any provision’ of the Constitution, vilion, Se _.

ye. tO investigate rumors .... and to “| The entire cast. cf the day's ontcriain-
strive toward the improvement of Ss to cach student will bo 15¢ ‘to taka ~

on the campas, caro of the admission tp the Lake plus7 7”
all tho studont wishes to put out for cald

——~2.0.7.C, BEGINS COURSE drinks, etc, Tnis sumfof 15¢ Will bo paid

—The. Davidson 3.0.7.C. unit got under . fon arrival at Harris Lake, .

way last wick with en cnrollment of sixty “Joo icCoy will bo in chargo -of the hour,
mon, There arc four rroshman scctions endl or £0 of svineing and Wilt Sco to the satc-
‘on€ Sophomore ecetion. Dac t0 the cMmart ime veCryts
tuumber cnrolled, there is but one company [word will be law and the cCooporation of .

Gach studont is cxpectad,

~insiiad.o2 the usual large tittalion. — :
—So-untii Saturdays tud yrcal hard...

Phe commend of the company is rowated ba-

toca Licutenants aoncy, Hart, Honderem, |Tor Sxterday-witti~brims Steams SRE
snd Bclx, Drilling is carricd on three Cris, and prancing av ths glorious Culy
simcs a wecxeson Mondays and Wednesdays. | Jamboroa, .
a. 2:40 Dm. and.on Fridays at 1:20 p.m>— °

Pac fresnnan scetions arc studying rifle BELK TO F2AD PAN-EELU
masacmarnsnip now and will take up sanite- at a mocting vO Organics the Sumer Pane
tior anc first eid later, The sophomore |Kollenic Council John Belk vert olectcd
seetion is currently studying tochnique_ Prosidont. Bolk has had exnorionce at
S28 rifle Tire, and later will study tne this position, havins SCrvGaG as Pr esidont,

jactical + trai ning of tha individual jsoldicrof tho Pan-Hell Guring the past school
Bosides ithe regular classroom inst ruction;| yaax.- - ° ten
swnoze¢ is an additional feature in that-a Tao counc:! consists of: John Belk, —__
mumnoe rol ce cining Tilms om various sub- Koppa Alpha; D.D. Phillips, Bota Theta Pi;
deccts dcaling with milfsary life will be Joa sn@Grson, Pi Kappa Alpha; Tom Connor,

se

sham to the 8.0.9.C. students, S.iA.E.3 Booby Millor, Kavra Sigma; Phil
” ; OWI. FILKS Whittier, Pi Kappa Phi; Bevorly Bovoit,
- 6 Yo program for Saturdey night, July {S.P.E. ne function of this council is
» Will d¢'a shoving of films from the [to act as an intcr-lratommi ty governing
ochre of War Information, Dotails will —[boody: — +"

appcar in ncxt wock's Davidsonian, ‘
* ee
