SHARPE SAR

The champion Georgia Giants ran
DAVIS. [S_ BATTING against their first setback on
5 Thursday night by being upset by
CHAM| WITH ADs Viatts I in a thrilling geme, 4-3. °°
‘ The Giants j

seeried te be coesting
Jim Dovis erme throveh with = hefty to another win with a 3 to 1 lecd
0458 i vernec .to cop the batting ti4going into the. last inning. But-
tle frem Som Nrvin> who wee just Singles by Scofield, Grey, and Lin-
torcc pointes behind with .455. Dr.jton, und one Gcorgvic. error brought
IreGs vock cence third with .423°2, ond|three runs i.cross the plete and
nik tt fourth with .409,. The. |Watts neld «. 4-3 lerd. Then Guiton
top ten hitters.rnd their rcceras jretired the Gicnts in order in
re ligtcd vclow: their he1lf of the inning end the

1. D.vis, Gients 2458 geme was over. Inscoe and Grey led
2..Ervin, Creckcre 2455 the winning :ttcrck with two for

3. McGevock, Town 4433 four ecch. Davis of_Georgir. head a
“4, We.tt, Wetts III -4Q9 perfect night at beat with three

5. Coutres, Watts III 2391 hits,

6. Cooper, Gients ~ 2386 Puced by D&bneéy and Ervin, who

UT. Heart, Crackers +386 got & honc-run-ind-two singles eécch
8. Hey; Gients 2546 the Georgic. Creckere blistcd out

9. Owens, Watts III: —) 2933. é- 12-9 triumph over Watts III.

10, Sencigecr, Town. .o18——_|the Crickcrs_collected 2 totrl of _

fifteen hits during the ¢ me.
Owens pr.ced the loecre with threc:
forfive.

Wetts III-IV gcincd = aubic vice
tory by beating Town, 14. 12. One
wes oc reruli.r gi.me ind rnother a
postponcd grmee. Meyo led the ate
teck with o. circuit clout, while

WITH Tilt Sv/PF
The Divideoni:n en
_ -Publishcticveryoirurcday
just for the hene cf it.
STAFF POR THIS ISSUE:
VMoron Sendifcxr..Editor-Emcritus
Gil Tolirferro. ersrorve oe ee ~Bditor
Rrbbi Smith.......Cclumnist (?)

GCoYec MCACCN see cece ese eo es OPOr MCGRVOCE, S an éry colliecte
ATO APR MO, on nene ne ene. a Lititcr | two hits cz,ch fox Town.

TON, VOW. sc eee eee cee ee CHINES

“Herb KeGoncresseseecseveetd ypist ‘The Gic nts closcd thcir sc. son
Hotto: “Demn the torpedoce? with-c. 12-8 decision ovcr Geéorgic I
Sol _spced. aboot". ___. Preaden led the cleven hit ¢ttzck

WILLI3"S VINS TOVRVS MENT on Hart with three for four, while
— |Bcelk ina Withington ce.ch got two
‘Top- sccdcd Mike Willisms won the Jfor tyio.— Ervin one Ev-ns cellceted
‘lonm-dclrycd surmer tennis tourne-itwo hits crch fer the losers.

ment 7.5 c—rcsult cf hie victary — In.the sc: non finel, Georgir I

in the finels over unsccdcd Ben defcrtcd Watts I 6-8. McBride end
Willienson. The meteh went enly [Ervin lcd with two for threc.

onc set by cercements Willicms The finel stendings showcd the
Winning 6-3, Williome hed beaten |Girnts with ccvcn wins «nd once loss,
Jerry Newbold in the ecmifine 1s the Crockcrs eccond with four cond

whilc Willi:mson hed wupect fourth- lfour;-the rest ticd with threc-cnd
geccded Myron Sendifcer.  Willicnms five. J notc of thinka to Shrew
elso grincd the only Di.vidson vic- (Smith for, his efficient (?) job of -

tory in « term meteh with Cherlotteumpiring jhis ecc san. G. Me.
