a ng ag r ASS

RAD 35 ‘rain! RAINGI
But ucer tnat the rain is breaking, get
out there and play those matches, fellers,
\ 11 first rounc matches are long over= -
IUG,

—

"THE MOVIN! PITCHERS"
hows begin at 6:30 P,li, Matinee on Sat-
vdey only, Time shown below indicates
the Length of the feature,

VHURS<FRIDAY: "WHITE BAVAGE" with Maria “|
‘ond Sabu,(Universal) 76m

hiontez Jon Halt
OATURDAY: "Hi'G MY.GUY", Dick Foran ond
Bileon Hervey, (Universal) 65 minutes,
SATURDAY LATE: "COWBOY IN MANHATTAN"
Freneis Langford and Robtt Page (Uni) 59m,
MON-TUESDA Y: "STORMY WiATHER". Dons. Hom
Cab Calloway and Bill Robinson (An oll-
colored east) (Fox) te minutes,

WEDNESDAY: "TWO TICKETS ‘TO LOWDON" Allon‘
Curtis ond jiichelle eatin (Uni), 76 min.

" PORTIC THOUGHT OF THE WEIK"
(Darn that fellow Nash} Hets here again.)
There was a young belle of old Natchez
Whose garments were always in patchez,.
When comment arose
On the state of her clothes, ces
She drawled,\‘hen Ah itchez,Ah scratchez,
‘-—-O eden Nash
Y Column (cont. from page 1)

a

ANS

TON, TERRORS SWING Iv 10°2- GAD

With the first half of “2 summer soft-
ball seavon nearing an ond, tie Town team
holds a one-game lead over the second plac
Watts 3-4. the Terrors hive arnexed.threv
games without a loss,while Watts has a rc*
cord ci cts and one, Gectsgia 3 and Watts
1-2 arz ticd for third with one win and ti.
losses each, Georgie 1 brings up the rear,
Should Watts 3-1 upset the Terrors in thei:
meeting on next Tuesday, the two’ teams win.
be ina tic for first place and a a play-off
will be neccessary,

In the best game of the season, the Geo-
rgic Glants nosed out the Georgia Crackers
3 to 2, THe Giants coliccted only two hits
but made then count for their one run mar-
gin, The Crackers collected six hits 6ff 03
Evans but managed to score only twice, Rog-
ers Wos the leading hitter of the day with
two hits in two trips,including a triple.

The form Terrors lashed on assault of .
five hits ond five runs on Evans in the™
first innirig as they defeated the Georgia
Giants 7-5, After the fatal first inning,
the Georgi. team played improved ball but
were never able to overtake their @pponents
Spencer was the winning hurler; Siegel and
Sandifer were the batting leaders for the
winners with two for three and two for fou)

respectively, iicAden paced the losers with

two singles and a triple in five trips,

Evans got-three singles for: five appearance:
The Terrors won their third straight game

“tivittes and desist obnoxiousncss now for
good of friendship,lessons and health,ee.
Like to read? Drop by end sec list of boo
in Husi¢“Room-and Y Offico...jyours touse
friends...ealso note one of the most bear
tiful ond readable biblés I've ever sem,
July Jamboree all set....are you? Get you
somebody's girl and come aldngeece. wol-
come to Jean Maza cll’ (Roanoke, Va.) .+«\/e're
glad with Hobbie, ooeeliAll OF THE Wit Ks He
Leaves us this wedkc at the Novy's insist-
once,Graduated last comacncemmt —~ loves
Davidson end all that it stends for, and
stands himself,without Ilmowing it, so ste
cadily that his being here has meant more
“then he lmows, Wellford Hobbie, Yours, s.

k
»

by riding to on easy 11-2 triumph over the’
lowly Georgie Crackers, The Terrors touche.
Jones:*for nine hits, with outbursts of six
and-four-runs-in the second and third in-—
nings, The Gionts made five scattered hits
off the offerings of Sandifer and were abl«
to score only twice, The Terrors were aidec
by Jonest wildness, collécting a total of
seven bases on balis, Dr. Johnston paced
the victors in the attack with two bingle:
for threc trips, Sandifer and Shannon fol+
lowed with two for four cach,

As the league swings into the final weck
there are two gomes yet to be played ;: the
eriticcl Watts 3-1 “vs, Town geome and Geor-
gia 3 vs. Watts 1-2.

The Daviissniian, published every Thursday by Myron Sondifer,George Mickden, Gilbett
Tnifafcri,densen Yow and Herb Kaemer, (Hobbicts gone courtint), Shaw Smith, *
Our Motto: "Dam the torpedoes] Full speed ahead", coLunnist,
