WITH THE STAFFWISE CORNER.

The Davidsonian
Published Every Thursday

Myron Sandifer ’........Editor :

Shaw Smiths.scceseesesescolumist

George MCA deeccccscce Sports

Gilbert Talidferrd.:: writer

Jensen Yow, ecocccevescorrinting

Herb Ka SMELL erecccvces eTypist
Motto: "Darn the torpedoes

Full speed ahead",
Mailed in a plain envelope

POETIC THOUGHT OF THE WEEK

Thofe was © young theologian’ name
Who rcfascd to accept his dogroo;
Ha said, "Tis bad cnough to be Fiddle,
Without being Fiddlo,D,.D,'"'
* -+ Contributed by Toto Thics
(Aw, heck § Wo cnjoy tem)

"The Missing Link"

d Fiddle

or
Whet's Wrong With the Davidson Sumer
Session"
‘(Any resanblance to tho Seripts n'Pranks
eccvecccevee 15 8 compliment.)

Figgure it out yoursclf: Imagino a hun-
dred and fifty people in constant associc~
tion with each other, and half of 'em not
allo to talk intelligently with the other
half} Well, that's gust: the way it is, The
nissing Link-in-thé~summer-session-is-just-
a matter of vernacular ( bull, to you), So
without furthor adiew ct gabbing, may I eds
itorially recommend to all the new studont
~the: foltowing indéspenstbie~-Davidsontons >

A DAVIDSON DICTIONARY

AK. - to Act Krazy about somcone because
of ulterior motives,

Grto of the moon in Daytime (love will find

Sunshine Brings Flowers: To Joe Andorson
one of the best pool-room managers the Y
has had in years, I'm not kidding,and hets
a good boy as wall as btéing’ good for some=
thingeeeee To John Bolk,who,rcgardless of
his chapel announcéments,has helped the Y.
put on socials,otc.,for the past year dnd
with success, too-C?,... Horace Boorman,
back fromthe wars,for help with his pray-
CY groupesee Bev Bobbitt for music contri-
butions with promises of more next’ senes—
ter, I'm ready...eeesCarl Coffoy for just
being a darn good boyt.eee Homer Coonrad

_|for painting signs, I't harder than it

looks... Charles De Lancy for his offers
to help, One of these days will take him’
up on one he can't get out of, Remamber{,.
ee Jim Dancy for being so whlling to help.
at any-and-oll_times, No: stuff, he's o mnys-
Leal magician for us... Hoyt Evans and Bob~
by uUiller for liédding hall prayer groups
80 of iciatly..ee. Bob Flowers for onswer=
ing the telephone and being so nice about
delivering messagés; More of a help than
yo. know, fricnds.... George Grimball,for ©
that Sunday he alnost lived in “¢hurch, Come
again ond bring your friends.... To Moose
Hart whom I judged incorrectly, You sec, ~
he had paid his debts (except for the tire)
and I was just joalous for the way girls
flocked around hin as‘if he were the only’
Hart for thea, Ho hum, Valemtino is oute..
Sem Hendérson for help for Freshncn in
Inglish.ese WC, Hovle for being o one-man
C, of GC. for Choraw, S.C.° oeekreanan Jofes
M.C,. Watson,Nell Stephons,Bill Snith, Ry
Coonrad,i, Sandifor (what on able sibsti-
tute) for good work on the July Jameceee
fBob- Jones and Lorene Lyles for reminding

& Way)eees. Frank Kirk for being so’ happy:

and helpful at tho same tinc.,. Katherine
Lecke for a good disposition, Pretty, too.
eceekted Preston for a job done conscie-

Detail - a jaunt or venture anywhere — °

not here, {ic Kero,
‘Jn the Books - process of preforming aced Sgt.

ic duties,
RA. = to have a miserable fceling,
In the know — full of dopo,
Rotate = to revolve slowly on an axis,
Stud - one who drives ( See: On the book
Wild hair = to’deel o la’Haliburton,

7 |

‘ng, I close with throe which, whilo not
synonyms, may—be-used-interchangoably duriy
any lull in the conversation: "Ach" 6 "Het
& good tun" = "Ferget it. Get the idea?
Darlez-vous Ie Davidsoniana"?  MS/ns

”
‘there are mony,many more; but’ space eonfing ter

tiouslyeeee Bill Scoggin for boing the mov-
Worked’ fhe machine ( as ass!t, to
O'Stcm)eee.e Harrict Porchor (pro-
nounced in’ various forms) for an infcct=
ious laugh, (She has’a gigglé that mkes

ine tigglc!!) Good gal,toowssess Charles

Thompson ‘for representing Mt. Olive so wall
eoeyes} eee N. Ridenhour for studying 50
hord, especially the whole’of this saues-
(she says) ploase note; profes... To
Jin Davis, Man of the Weck, for his per—
sonality, perserverance, sincerity and gm-
uineness, Hets one who has platy of: por=”
sonal attraction but works hard just the
SOMnG eee and that's notcworthy, Yours, S,
