 MAJIT H THE
ILDCATS

By JIM LOWRY

Usually the sports column, entitled “With the Wild-
cats,” is concerned mainly with the different varsity sports
which the Cats play. Since this summer
there is no such thing as varsity sports,

items that might interest the average fan.
The thing that is of the most interest to
Davidson students at this time is Coach

campus to the navy studded campus at
Chapel Hill. Coach Mcliver came here
under Doc Newton and took over the head
coaching job when Doc was called eo State. Since then
he has been turning out good football teams and building
for greater ones In 1943 it looked like he would have
as good a team as any in the state and one of the best in
the South, but the war tore that to pieces. Next year at
Carolina Coach Mckver will have a wealth of material to
work with and some excellent aides, among them his broth-
er who was formerly coach at V. P. J. Flere’s wishing
the best of fuck to Coach McEver in his new job, and
here's hoping that he returns to Davidson after this war.

1 think that congratulations are duc to the war time
athletic squads at Davidson last year. The footbail tearm
with a great scarcity of experiented men. and manned
almost entirely by 17 year old boys, played some very good
football and would have won some ball games had a few
schools they played been a little more strict in keeping thei

word. —The-Carhaskerbattttant_micknam T
Buzzsaws,” won 16 and lost 6. They defeated State and
were trimmcd by Carolina three and six points. They

. played in a lot of hard luck throughout tie year losing
nine men of the original thirteen. They went to the con
ference tournament only to lose to V, P, 1, in ve last thirty
seconds.
football team did, Jost seven straight games to run the
Davidson losing string to over twenty. Then they went
out and upset Catawba 3-0. The bascball was supposed
to be put in the trophy cage but no one has seen it. All in
all it was a fairly successful ycar under the circumstances
and here’s hoping that this winter the second wartime
squad will have as much fun and as much luck.

Every year it seems that some sports writer comes
out with a list of firsts in sports events. The time has
come for the Davidson sports editor to make out his.
These are from the viewpoint of the sports fans who
lose money every year.

Biggest Upset—Bounding Home bounding away
from Pensive in the Belmont. ,

Biggest Disappointment—Cat's loss to State the Sat-

urday night of Mid-winters.

o~ Biggest Joke—The man who said that the Yankees
would ‘not miss Dickey, Gordon, DiMag, Johnson, and
Rizzuto, and would still win the pennant.

Biggest Clown—Ed Hudson, known as Eye Brows, |

who jerked off his catcher’s mask so fast a foul tip hit him
in the face.

Fastest Man—The ballplayer who hit a line drive
over second base and got hit in the head sliding into second.

Biggest Fool—me, for trying to write a sports column
this summer. ”

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP —_
~The Best Haircuts ; 7

-| ~~ DAVIDSON DINING ROOM

Delicious Meals
~Quick and Courteous Service

—VISIT COLE'S

‘

this column will be full of small sports|

Gene Mcelver's departure from this)

The Cat diamond team lacking everything the

Friday, June 23, 1944

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

DORM COMPETITION BEGINS

Many of the new students at
Davidson have already spent many
enjoyable hours_at the YMC?
The “Y" serves as a source of tine
entertainment jor
a little spare time in the afternoons.
The pool table and ping pong table
afiotd us an opportunity to get
together with our friends for an
occasional game. « :

The popular redords at the “Y"
also offer another source of enjoy-

Jmeni. For complete relaxation, it's
hard to beat an easy chair, a phono-
graph, and some good records, Kor
those who hike their music “sweet
and hot”, there are the best records
of the best popular bands in the
country today. For these who enjoy

set of records which has been
brought to the “Y" from the Music
Building, In recent years, Uhese re-
oords have been very papular with
jthe students. *~ ©

Starting immediately aiter Ves-

jthere will be a series of get-tegeth-
ems at the “Y"
sitiging hymns. For those of us who
CHjoy smMginNg.
ecllent opportunity to get together
and sing our Tavorite hymns. There
are quite a few students interested
lin this new activity aud they want
more offus tejoin. them. you like

to sing, come on up to the “V'Nnext

Y. M. CAL Faculty

those who have

the classics, there tS the CaTiegic

‘pers next Sunday night. June 25,

for the purpose of

Georgia 1 and Watts 1 and 2
Win First Games
9 Inter-dormitory volley ball began
this week with games Tuesday eve--
ning, Georgia 1 vs. Watts 3 and

Changes
8 Watts 1 vs. Georgia 3. Georgia 1

~N drastic cut in the sumber ol !deleated the third and tourth tloom
civilian students has not been the [of Watts 2-0, and first floor Watis
only thajor change bronght to Dav (downed Georgia'3 by a.score of 2-1.

. The dormitories have been divided
idson cam by the gods war. °

- pas by Me & of ar so as to have two teams from cach
here have been many changes in | dorm. The first and second floor§

the faculay, of Watts make up one team, while,
Dr. Wilham G. McGavock the third and fourth floors comprise
teaching mathematies at Duke Uni- another, Georgia 1 includes the
: . : west side of the second floor, and
vers hh : . ,
ersity, where he reccived his T n Georgia 3 takes in the cast half of
D. degree. Coach Gene Mefiver.tieeenndt ttn 7
who warhead coach here. now holds} The managers for the four teams
the same position at the University [are as follows: Georgia 1—Wither-
oi North Curolina. Neither, Mc-[ington: Georgia 3—Lowry; Watts 1
Gavock nor Metiver hold ecrn

Owens: Watts 3—Hay and Inscoe.
a . . Te volley ball tonznament should
nent positions at the ncighboring
institutions.

finished this week.

is

be

Narvey 1. Morrison. instructor |.
of physics, has leit the campus in-
delmitely, Alfred F_ Foster. another,
povsies instrueter. is now in a nav
al research barean at Fre Schuyler,
New York. Foster is onecol the
technicians studying radar. Ameri-
TiO” enemy

Cinema Attractions
tdune 23, 24 Buffalo Rill"

June 24. . “Late Show”

June 26.27 . “Ladies Courageous”

detettion June 28, 20.
Dr. Tames B. Woods. Ir. a former
Davidson student and graduate of
they Medical College of Virginia,
has resigned his positions as asse-
ciate. profesor of physiqlory and

-- “Yellow Canary”
.

June 30, July 1."Faleon Out West”

fuly 1. “ “Tate Show"

daly 3. 4 oe “The Imposter”

Sunday night after Vespers.
“Y" Cabinet
i tn the recently beid election, Bill
jSmith was elected as the new. presi-
ident of the _YM. C..A.—Rill- isa
tuvember of the national leadership
jiraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa,
and we are cewating ee him to con-
inne his splendid work in his new
loftice. The new cabinet members of

the "VY" are Jim Alexander, Ed Gold- |

eh, ‘-and - Dexter — Withering dan.
George Apperson. who is the pastor
iof Unity Churelt is aniomaticalty a
imember of the cabinet. These boys
jare amply qualified to carry on the
ifine work which the “Y" has done
‘in past years, and wwe are counting
-an them to do a goad ioh.

Reception
At 8 o'clock on Friday evening.
June 16, on the lawn of the Guest
House, the Y. M. CA. gave a ‘re-

idson and for the members of the
faculty, who are teaching this sum-
mer, Athogether, there were approxi-
mately one hundred students and

‘faculty members present at the ‘re- |

iception, From the student’s view-
point, the reception was very bene-
ficial because it gave them an op-
portunity to meef and get acquaint-
ed with the members of the faculty
‘under whom they will work. this
year. The reception ended at 9
o'clock and with it ended an” en-

joyable evening for all who attended.

NN

ceplion-forthe new students at Daw}

TVRICNe and Associate cdlicge HUF-
Sigian Dr. Wood is now holding
the Payk of major at Carlisle Bar- |.
riels, Pennsylvania, in the Arty
Medical Corti, Dr. Wood was re- |
placed byt DAW. F. Selby. Dr.
Selby stndied at the Ciniversity of
Mississippi, the University of
North Carolina and Temple Uni-
versity. Before June—tstehe had
been in private practice in Char-
lotte. We now resides near our
campus with his wife and two chil
rdren.

Wiham L. Shannon, instructor jin
medical nid and mathematics amd
teacher of the Aviation Cadets in
acronauti¢s and acrial

-. “Gas Vaght”

navigation.

has gone to Shelbyville. Kentucky.

Mark FE. Tinkhain, feseructor in
physics anda graduate of the Uni
versity of North Carolina, is now
with the National Carbon Company
in Chartotte.

y

BANK OF DAVIDSON

welcomes the A. S. T. R. P. and
offers bank facilities whenever

such is needed.

The bank is authorized to issue saving
bonds in connection.with the present War

Bond Drive,'and urges everyone to buy

_ liberally.”

0

The BANK OF DAVIDSON
Davidson, N. C.
