THE
WEATHER

If your joints

creak, it’s not
the weather it's
polio.

Vol. XXXII

ASTRP Unit

Has Dance

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBi ORTA LIBERTAS

_ DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1944

LATE, CITY
EDITION

No. 3

Excellent ROTC Unit SIGMAS and SIG EPS

_ In Davidson Formed This Summer Hold First

Physical Efficiency Test is
Given to ACER’s

On July 14 the ASTRP seait held
a dance in the Davidson [igh School
gymnasium. This was the first social
event given by the new umit and it
attracted sixty young ladies from
Davidson, Cornelius, Mooresville,
and Charlotte. Musie for the oc-
casion consisted of excellent
cordings which were reproduced by
means of a public adéress system.
During the intermission period re-
freshments were served by ladies of
the local community and it was also
enlivened by skit offerings by mem-
bers. of the militaeunit. Norman
McDonald acted as soloist, Jerald
Tapp displayed a varied assoriment
of fancy-skating figures, and Ben
Davis delighted the audience with
his rare impersonations.

Fre shimeeorar anram aa E:
Lt. Louis Fruchter, ASTRP -Pub-
lic Relations and Morale Officer,
who was assisted by. an ASTRP
committee and a Jocal- civilian com-
mittee, The evening was pronounc-
ed a distinct success and more of
the, same type it is hoped willl be
hell, However, the fact dae he
unit has been quarantined due to
a few cases of polio will probably
postpone any immediate plans for
some tine yet> A picnic which. wis
planned for August 4 will probably.
be called off until the epidemic has
gone. This picnic was to be held
here on the campus and the boys
were to have dates from the neigh-
boring communities: Following the
supper a coticert had been planned,
according to Lt. Fruchter, Mor the
sanre renson the softball game be-
tween an ASTRP team and tht
all-frat team, made up of the ten
best Players of the inter: fraternity
competition of the regular civilian
students, was cancelled. This game
was scheduled for [uly 25. at 6:45
P.M. ~

re-

Physical Tests

Coach A. Heath Whittle, who is
acting as director of Physical Edu-
cation-here now during the absence
of the other members of the staff,
announced on July 10 the results of
the physical efficiency tests of the
members of the A.S.T.R.P. com-]
pleted at Davidson College last
week.

According to Coach Whittle, these
tests were prescribed by the Army
to be conducted durng the fourth
week. after the activation of the
new unit. They are to be given to
each new group at the beginning
of cach three month term.

The results of these. exercises,

tabulated for the yynit as a whole
and covering seven tests, were as
follows: Push ups—2I times: squat
jumps—90; sit ups—40: pull ups—
5; Burpee twenty—102 390 yard run
—H -seconds;= pick-a-hack (100
yards)—23 seconds.
! Whittle stated that with only one
exception these results are cén-
siderably better than the_A.S-T.P.
general avcrage, which is as follows :
push ups—l8 times: squat jumes—
32: sit ups—33; pull ups—6; Bur-
pee-twenty—10; 300 yard run—46
seconds; pickéa-hack (100 yardsy—
26 seconds. /

Two of the aircrew students made
perfect scores, accordng to Coach

-the-other—main buildings on

tigalty stated Giat there is no need

on. the Davidson campus. As we

Guiton Heads Company as
Rose Joins Navy —-——

°

Plans for Gym
Are Complet’d

H. R. Weeks, Architect, Re-

According «0 whe Military De-
the Davidson R.O.T.C.

Summ’rSchool
unit is making great progress this ‘y’ Progresses
summer. The unit) owas organized

during the first week of the sum- Many Plans Are In View For

partment,

cently At Davidson mer session by Major [EL Marsh. Second Session ;
Mr. H.R. Weeks, of Atwood and| P.M.S.&T.. at ‘Davidson College. Every Sunday five boys go to the
Weeks inz Durham, has recently. Due to the small number of stu- Sanitorium of Mecklenburg County,
een at Davidson to present the| dents trending summer school, just the other side of Tlantersvitle,

the unit was able to have onty one] to
company. Tléwever, the

plans for the new gymnasium which
has been a topic of hopetul con-
versation on-the campus for some
time. In the main, these plans were
approved by the administration, and
final drawing is now being made.
Because of building restretions
imposed by che war, construction
of the new gym will probably noi
be hegun for some time, but every
indication is that the building will [
be a great addition to the David-
son campus, not onty its appear-

teach Sunday Sehool. Four_ol.
work Was] these. boys teach eolored classes,
carried—on—verv—eijectively: Sinee--and “itis ‘trom these thal Digg ToT,
the company was first organized. | ive” their most loyal sapport:
many subtoects have been iken up. Members. of these ctasses and of:
Among these are squad close order the stalf at the Syniteriam suv
drill, platoon, elose order, company | that this is the mast valuable con-
close order, and squad catended tribution that
order. The members of the company
have learned their work very well.
and the company has become
mast cifeient organization.
Appointments for ROLLE student
t Hotta small white

b ° ol € NOY
lies, which are so urgentiy needed | Marsh? aré ° Os: Cadet Cap- Shearer Chapel.
here. ol Galdshoro: Cadet (lay two boys go ont to this Chureh

iain, C.J. Ros

The bouiiding -~witt fate the ath- Liemenagye TA Guiten of Park-lio teach Sunday Schoot and wait
letic field fram the nerue end. and tons D. A. Crane of Tusea-|tend tha following Chiréh service.
will be the same style as that of | lo. a, Ala.: Cadet Ist Sergeant. | this Chureh has always dooked tc

the ran Weir of Charleston, S. Gadihe Y. M. oC. AL here at Davidsen

campus, a Cadet Sergeants. (platoon guides), 'o_heltp_it. especially in-its wark af

Perhaps the thing which we stu- James S. Love of Gretnsbore, and teaching. Boys should realty go out
dents are mbst interested in .is the A. J. Owens of Avondale; Cadet to Shearer every Sunday, and the
new swimming pool. Afier its econ- Sergeants (squad. leaders), H. L, is an excellent ORportunity open for
dtruction, Davidson will lose tis [Amos of High Point, RLM. Brooks any student interested tii teaching
dubious distinction of being onc; of Charlotte, A. Rk. Gresham of Sunday School in a place where so
of the, few good colleges without a Mooresville, and k. MacDonald of | much experience awaits.
pool!The new tank will be stand-| Rock “Hill, S. C.; Gadet Corporals ‘Y’ Fanction
ard size. twenty-eight feet wide} (assistant squad leaders) Id. S. It seems that it is almost impo. -
and seventy-five feet long, and will Golden of Brunswick, Gru. and sible’ for the social committee under
be located on the east side of the J. WE Medford of Lancaster, Ss. C.Jthe head of Tim Alexander, to plan
gymnasium. There will be a baicomy | Last. week. .Cadet -Caplain. G=-J. anything Outstanding ia the way of
at the gouth end of the, poolfor | Kose left. Davidson _to_ enter—the a furedion for the stadent fy
spectators. — PLOS. Navy. Cadet_Lt. T. A. Guitdn The. itm test.and reireshments

Mr, Weeks, who is the designer,[ has been apy
drew the plans for the Woolen

Davidson — Colleze
makes 16 this institution, This work
comes under the guidance of Kd.
4} Golden and Hamar Williamson.

Shearer Chapel
About two miles from Davidson is

7 7 a st = 7 -

known
Every other Sune

church as

re

of

at

has been appointed ‘permanent the’ "¥" the past week wem off

captain by MajorMarsh. This pro- fine, bat Jim doesn't seem to be
Gymnasium at the University of] motion made vacancies, filled by juice satisfied with that. He seems
North—Carolina, and his drawing Owens as -Heutenant, Medfords as to have some plans brewing for

of the building gives promise of a
(Cotinued on Page 4) 7

guide sergeant and aberyan and

the comingrscssion, however, and it
Barr as corpora. -

nay take the form of 2 sau hight
w [OW the campus. Anything that
cP Pnight be said along this line must
be off the record, bur you may rest
_ assured that there will bea function
Baughman, Jr, of St” Petersburg, [for the student body before the suii-
Florida’ was” offeially declared to]mer session ends.
have polio on July 24. Another stu-
dent’ from Montgomery, Alabama,
was the second victim. .
_ Dr. MacConnell , further

a

. Polio No Cruse For Alarm

Medical authorities have empha-

Deputation

Reak Bradley heading the depn
tations commitive on the “V" cabi-
states [net seems to have rétired from the
Hthat no real epidemic as yet existed. [limelight with his activuly of late.
As yet, there is uo reasan. for| However, this has been because of
alarm. The physician stressed four} some plans that he is carrying out
important rules for the individual | toward a program, most likely an
'o follow to, decrease the liklihood open forum, furnished by some stu-
of contracting the disease - dents from Johnson © Smith Uni-

(1) Stay away from the movies. versity in Charlotte.
All publie gatherngs are dangerous. Mr. Oshorne, who 1s secretary of
Picture shows rank first as »pread-| the-“¥" for the summer. is expeet-
ers of polio. ing a new mat for the pool table in

(2) Refain from strenuous exer-: the designated room in the-Y.M.C.A.
“cise. Extensive physical exercise | He hopes that all consideration will
which lowers the salt conient of | be Riven this in playing’so that the
the body through sweating de-}mat might Iast as long as possible.
creases the body's resistance to the ____._..Unity Church_
“disease. * ‘| The. potio sceare.‘is really hinder-

(3) Eat plenty of ine the activity of the “¥) cabinet.
‘Avoid constipation. Unity Church. founded in the Mill

“CH TE youyfeel sick in any way,| village many years ago by the Dav-
report immelliately to the infirm-fidson Y.M.CA,. only has an adult
ary. Injury from the disease is less} class now. ‘Tor the Sunddy School
probable if diagnosed at an carly | worship, whereas in the past it has
stage. had quite -a number of woung peo-

The danger is-not great enough | ple’s classes. Dexter Witherington,
for us to become panicy or excited. heading the boy’s work of the cabi-
-Wise.. adherence to, the_above-rules | net has sent home his colored troups
will eliminate most of the_danger. | feeling that__they.might better
Davidson. has, compared to otherj weather this scare in’ that safe

fdr tnundue alarm because of thc
cases of potio whieh have develoned

Ro .to press, there are two cases
which have definitely been diag-
nosed as ‘infantile paralysis. ‘These
developed’ among ASTRP studeits.
Both cases have been sent to Morris
Field, The roommates of these stu-
dents have been isolated in the col-
lege infirmary. Al! ASTRP students
have been restricted: to_the campus
until further notice. They will also
be restricted from the Y.AMICA guest
house.

Major Marsh stated. that all news
of the devclopments of the incident
would be released to the student
body through civiliar sourees. DFT
Cunninghain, in an address before
the student body during chapel,
stated that there would’.-be no
seerecy.- All who—are—interested
will be kept informed. about all
developments. In a letter to mem-
bers of “the faculty. Dr. Cunning-
ham_insisted that all facts of. the
case be carefully interpreted to the
community. Everyone —has—been
urged against starting unfounded
tumors. These rumors offer a dan-

iresh fruits.

| Charlotte :_ill Mtedforditlaenr

Functions

Good Times Had By All At

—-_"_ Parties - ~:

On Saturday night. July 15, the
members of the Kappa Sigma bra-
lernity who are attending summer
school entertained a mumber ot girls
from Charlotte and nearby cities
with a party and pienie at David-
son, This was the finst function

which the Kappa. Sigs have had _

this summer, and it was a huge suc-
cess,

The members of the fraternity
-and—their—dates arrived atDavid=
son about 6:30, and went out to
the river for a picnic supper. After
t most enjoyable supper, they left
the river and came back to the fra-
tefnity bowse for an informal party

ayd a “eed”. About 10:30 they
went our to Mt. Mourne for an
informal dance, The dance ended

about 12:00, and all those present
went home atter hAsing spent a
the
and their dates attending the party
were Mr. and Mrs. Robby Miller
at Charlotte: Conway Rose of
Goldsboro and Miss Catherine WKirk-
Man oof Charlotte: Martin Waters
ot Charlotte and
Blanton. of Kinston: John Unga
of Lebanon, Ky. and Miss
Hagins of Lancaster, 8. Coy
Covington { _Gastonia_and

Monte Beadle of Davidson; Harold

The ‘members of

Van

fraternity

Miss Charlotte
Junnelle

_ Miss.

Amos itd Miss Peggy Long of High.

Point: Gabby Bryant of Ligh Moin

and Miss Gloria ‘Deal of Chartatte:

Walter Dickson and Miss
Harper of Gastonia: Charte Jar.

uv + woe *
heed and Miss. Miriam ltsenhour of

caster, S. Cocand Miss? Patty ‘Zim
meninan oy Satisbury : Allijon, Pell
and Miss_Mildred Graham of Chars,
lotte: “Doe Roddey and Miss Low
Sewman of Lancaster, S.C: John
Wilson apd Miss Margaret Woods
of Charlotte: and Jimmie tove of
Greensbora. Two membess of the
fraternity, Ed Asttby of Ati Airy.
send Vit Breards of Conway, S. C.,
were unable to attend the party.
From all reports received about the

ackie"

PATTY,“ Micy wissed Ont vn A -let GT
bon
S. P. E.'s
On_ July 14. the members of the
(Cotinued ‘on Pages A)

Cunningham ——

Accepts Bid

Appointed To Commission of
Council of Churches —
ftohas been announced recently
that Dr. Jolin. R. Cunningham has
been Appointed to serve as a riem-
her of the World. Council Sérvice
Commission of the World Council
of Churches in America. This com-
mnission. is made-up—ot seven tnen,
and ts concerned with the post-war
coordination of the wari of churches
in America and Europe. Chairman
of_tic--Cauncil-is  Pheorlore: “M,
Green? who, is head of the, depart-
ment joi grhvesophy at Princeton.
The first meeting of the new coun-
cil is scheduled for August 7, and
will be held in New York City.”
Dr. Cunninghain-also serves as a
mewhber of the: Joint Executive
Committee of the World Council of

Churches -in America, and_is one_of____

Whittle—-They—are— W-_Ay_Davis,
Camp Mackall, and H: A. Lester,
St. Petersburg, Fla.

ger—which may bé—cqual-to—the
dangers of the disease.:
Dr.-MacGonnell stated-that-James
, |

communitiés Of this area, been for-| place. Stil the work goes on with
tunate. As yet there is no serous|as much material as will attend the
epidemic -in Davidson: —

the _two representatives of ‘the

Southern Presbyterian Church on,
(Continued on Page 3) ‘the committees.
