Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, Jaly 7, 1964

Into The Life of Things

By J. S. BLAIN

The great poet, William Wadsworth, included the above
phrase, which has been selected as the title of this column,
in “Tintern Abbey,” one of his finest and most familiar
compositions. To quote the section from which the title
is taken is to state the theme and purpose of the column:

“While with an eye made quiet by the power
Of harmony, and the deep power of joy,
We see into the life of things.”

In the rush of modern life we all need to take time to
meditate upon those facts which enable us to see “into the
life of things.” By reemphasizing points made in Chapel
,_and Vespers, by making comments, and by suggesting ad-
ditional food for thought, this column will seek to provide
each individual with material for the spiritual insight so
desperately needed by every man,

On last Sunday night, Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of
Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, preached a
timely sermon on the thirty-seventh verse of the fifth chap-
ter of Matthew. With reference to people in general, Dr.
Jones illustrated the fact that conversation reveals char-
acter by telling of an experience in a dining car when he
listened to the general flow of words from individuals
near lyy and constructed his idea of their character. As
further illustration, he cited a case, well known to all,
of the profanity of grown men in a barber shop and its
effect upon a youth present. It is necessary for all of
us td realize that we have a responsibility to those around
us, and that we are often judged by what we say. It is
necessary for all of us to realize that we have a responsi-
bility to those around us, and that we are often judged
by what we say. It is the opinion of many that “what we
are drowns out what we say”, but, as Dr. Jones pointed
out, simple, clean, and effective speech can do. much to-
ward the building of character.

July Fourth, an historic day, was-the occasion of a
most inspiring chapel service, conducted by Professor
Beatty. The Biblical text was Matthew 22: 15-22,
and Professor Beatty brought out very forcibly the re-
sponsibility of every American to our country and our
God. Jesus made~a definite distinction between loyalty
to God and loyalty to civil rulers, and Professor Beatty
emphasized this distinction in his brief but powerful
talk. However, he said, though we serve both, they are
dependent upon each other, and man has yet to find
any true power besides God. As the Parisees marvelled
at the words of Christ, man gazes in awe as “‘God’ moves
in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform.”

In a time like this, with history being made every
hour, let_us not forget that history-is “His story”, and
that in all our actions we will profit by following Stone-
wall Jackson’s philosophy of life and religion “ . . . every
man’s life is in the hands of God.” With this courage we
can_entrust our lives and those of our friends in places
of danger to our God, and with this courage in their
hearts, fighting men have conquered, and will continue
to do so, in the struggles which defile the record of
mankind.

BUY
WAR
BONDS

On The Alumni Front

Lt. James M. Miller

Second Lieutenant James M. Mil-
ler, 20, '45-of Chicago, IIL, pilot of
Eighth AAF Flying Fortress,
has been presented the Air Medal

an

for “meritorious achievement” while
participating in heavy bombing as-
saults on vital Nazi targets in Ger-
many and the Occupied Countries of
Europe.

Lt. Miller, the som of Mrs. M. B.
Mille, 618 N. Winthrope Avenue,
entered service Aug. 17,
1943, prior to which be was a student

Chicago,

at Davidson College in North Caro-
fina, :

Capt. Thomas Breeden

Thomas Mclauchlin Breeden,
former Davidsonian, Class of 1937,
has been promoted from the rank of
First Lieutenant to that of Captain.

Captain Breeden is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. Thomas H. Breeden, Ben-
nettsville, South Carolina. His wife,
Frances R. Breeden, resides at Clear-
water, Fla. He attended Bennetts-
ville High School, Davidson College,
ind the Graduate School of Business,
Harvard University.

Captain Breeden is a pilot and as-
sistant Operations Officer with the
IX Troop Carrier Command of the
Ninth Air Force, the U. S. compen-
ent of the Allied Expeditionary Air
Force in the European Theater of
Operations, ;

Lt. Avery T, Cashion

Lt. Gen. George C. Kenney, Com-
mander of Allied Air Forces in the
Southwest Pacific area, has awarded
the air medal to Second Lt. Avery
T. Cashion Jr. 745, for—“meritorious
achievement while participating in
sustained operational flight missions
in the Southwest Pacific area, dur-
ing which hostile contact was prob-
able and expected.

Lt. Thomas C. McAllister

Lt. Gen. Lewis H. Brereton, Com-
manding general of the Ninth Air
Force, has announced the award of
the Air Medal to 2nd Lt. Thomas
C. McAllister of Mt. Pleasant, N. C.
The presentation was made in re-
cognition of his meritorious achieve-
ment while participating in acrial
flght in the European Theater of
Operations and having participated
in the required number of operation-
al sorties against the enemy.

Lt. James M. Caldwell

2nd Lt. James M. Caldwell '37, 28,
bombardier on an Eighth AAF Fly-
ing Fortress has been awarded the
Air Medal. The decoration was con-
terred for “meritorious achievement
while participating in heavy bombard
ment missions over enemy occupied
continental Europe.”

Lieutenant Caldwell is the son of
Mrs. Grace M. Caldwell, 1628 Park
drive, Charlotte, N. C. Before enter-
ing the service he was emptoyed by
The Charlotte Observer, Charlotte,
Ni: G;

)

O. C. S. Graduates

Word has been received at David-
son College that the following form-
er Junior R. O. T. C. Davidsonians

CONFERENCES AT *

MONTREAT

(Continued from Page 1)

chaplains who can tell us much
about the religion of our soldiers
and sailors. If any one has a vesper
cut left, this will be the last chance,
and a good one! The summer music
festival will be held on Saturday
evening, August 19,

Most of us are familiar with Mon-
treat’s spirit, Lake Susan (Ah!),
and everything else which goes to
make a wonderful week-end, so
let’s take advantage of- the oppor-
tunities presented, and go to Mon-
treat!

were commissioned as second lieu-
tenants in the Army of the United
States upon successful completion of
the Officer Candidate Course at the
Infantry School at Fort Benning,
Ga.: R. T. Amos of High Point;
W. H. Barber-of Atlanta, Ga.; E. S.
Barnwell of York, S. C.; T. V. Bum-
barger of Hickory; R. C. Currie of
Mulfens, W. Va.; T. H. Dimmock
of Newport News, Va.; J. L. Fairly,
Jr. of Richmond, Va.; A. A. Farrar
of Summerville, Ga.; P. H. Gwynn
of Davidson; D. W. Holland of Gas-
tonia; T. P. Howard 6f Lake Cor-
norant, Miss.;° M. H. Jeffires of
Thomasville, Ga: ; _W. WwW. Lacy of
Richmond, Va.; G. B. Peters and
T. L. Peters of Kingsport, Tenn. ;
E. C. Philips of Jacksonville, Fla.;
and R. B. Port ‘6f Winston-Salem.

Lt. Joe Mills Brinson

Lt. Joe Mills Brinson of High
Point has been assigned to the At-
lanta Army Service Forces Depot,
Atlanta, Ga. Lt. Brinson entered
the Army on May 20, 1942 and he re-
ceived his commission in the Trans-
portation Corps. in November, 1942,
and was promoted to first lieutenant
in May, 1943. As officer in charge
of the LCL Shipping and Receiving
Section, Transportation Division, he
is an important officer in Station
operations. Now at one of the larg-
est Army Service Depots in the
country, Lt: Brinson describes the
installation as “the Army’s most in-
teresting mail order house.”

Ist Lt. Miles Costin Wood, Jr.

First Lt. Miles Costin Wood, Jr.
is reported lost in action in the

Italian area as of May 25. Lt. Wood
was pilot of an Invader or dive
bomber plane and had been on over-
seas duty since last fall. He is the
son of M. C, Wood and Mrs. Ger-
trude Robbins Wood of Dade City,

Fla., and Statesville. He entered
the service in December, 1941, and
received his wings and commission
at Eagle Pass, Texas. Recent letters
indicated he was north of Rome.

Lt. Fred H. McLean

Lt. Fred H. McLean, 28, of Lenoir,
was killed in the crash of a bombeX
plane on which he was a passenge®
Thursday, June 15, 12 miles north of
Wichita, Kan., according to a mes-
sage received from Col. Arthur Mel-
linson, commander of the air base
at Sdlinas, Kan., where Lieutenant
McLean was stationed. He entered
the Army in 1942. Prior to that he
Was a reserve officer, having grad-
uated at Davidson college in 1937.
He was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant and was promoted to first
lieutenant when attached to a bomb-
ing squadron as intelligence officer,

Ist Lt. Alexander L. James III

First Lt. Alexander L. James III
has been reported missing in action
in the Asiatic area. Lt. James is
from Charlotte and graduated from
Davidson in 1940.

Capt. James T. Latimer

Capt. James T. Latimer was killed
in action over Austria. Capt. Lati-
mer was in the Army Air Corps and
was from Anderson, S. C. He was in
the class of '41 at Davidson.

COLE’S DAVIDSON

CAROLINA LUNCH
Delicious Meals
Quick and Courteous Service

VISIT COLE’S

DINING ROOM and

CANDY

ICE CREAM

PENNANTS

The STUDENT STORE announces

that it will open as soon after June 26th as

possible in the PX stand in the gymnasium.

Visit the Stud Store for:

COLD DRINKS

SCHOOL SUPPLIES

FRATERNITY STATIONARY

SANDWICHES

