Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, February 25, 1944

I. R. C. DISCUSSES

{Continued from Page 1)
ary regarded by the peacemakers
of 1919 as most feasible; in the
Balkans the Russian policy of Pan-
Slavism, although that name_is not

Black Market

“Ah, 'tis spring.
De boid is on de wing
— Dat’s absoid.

usually given it today, may well
win the support-of Balkan peoples.
The inclusion of several Balkan sov-
iet republics in the Soviet Union
might go a long way to bring peace
to an area- whieh has been one of
the worst trouble spots of Europe.
These small eastern) European
states, which have in the past. been
almost too weak ecconomicaily and
politically to maintain their inde-
pendenee, would protit from the in-
dustrial and commereial. develop-
“ment of the Soviet Union, and yet
keep ai degree af independence
through the aederative principle,
The gyorld need not iear unduly
wide revolution. Although Russia
—Was.founded on the Marxist prin-
ciple of world revolation, Satlin has
dong sinte modiBed bis views on
Ahat point. Oe has made Russia a
nationalistic communism, dropping
in’a large measure, the international-
isni of Marx. Abolition of the Third
~International—is-but one more in-

dication of Stalin's nationalist ten-
@

dencies.

Furtherinore, Russia has steadily
modified Ber communism and the
nature of the dictatorship. The
constitution of (936 was more demo-
cratic in form than dts nredeces-or:

the recent change—in dae. tetreuire
_ot the Union appears to put further
emphasis on the federative prin-
ciple. Russia ig not a democragy:
‘but. dictatorship and the sone-pany
system ymuay be considered a icm-
parary
to be movine gradually toward a
democratic socialism from the com-
munist extreme, while Great Btitain
and the United States are working
toward the same goal irom the op-
posite cxireme of individualistic
capitalism. The anes, of an ideo-

logical con ttiet ties moe in the dog-| were unable to cope with.

tent, - Nussia - sgems |

De wing is on de, boid.”

With these immortal words of an unknown poct_as_our inspiration,
we again turn to the most enjoyable practice of minding everybody's
business but our own. Roll up your pants legs, fellows and prepare to
wade for here goes.

quietness of our sanctuary this past week-end and departed the proud

our swollen eyes fell on the “Littke General” McBride and we noticed |
+hat-he was pretty downheartd,
a mathematician, and got we answer: “Bird meets gal, plus! Bird
“itkesgat to dance. nrinus tige—sqiiare, silly !l—NExt_cOnies a personal |
word to tne Romen of Georgia Dorm; Bud Wysor. We just want to
say that pictures don't always tell the truth and sometimes tier don't
ater! She's O. K., Budl!

Flowers go to Fore” Williamson for the door he bumped into Saturday
night, If meat wasn't rationed, we'd send that, but this is war, and war
is Fteck! What did Chicke think, Ben?

World Day College Helps

of Prayer
Is Observed

A special service of prayer was
held at the campus Church, Wed-

program was in keeping with the

possessors of their drag's frats pins. Congrats go to Carolyn, Sally, aud’| world day of prayer, sponsored by
Wink who captured Bill Smith, Jim Lowry and Cecil Garett respectively. | the

International___ Council —_ of

As we gazed around the quiet in the wee hours of Sunday afternoon, Churches.

The official date for the special

“We confronted one of his first brotlers:| day of prayer was set to ve Friday,

Supply Books

To Prisoners

World Student Fund Sponsors
Campaign To Send
Literature Abroad

Davidson College has been asked

Our first duty is to take off our hats to the cutics who invaded the | Tesday evening at seven-thirty. The| by the World Student Retief Fund

to take part in a book campaign
to supply reading material for six
million prisoners of war inscoun-
tries throughout the world.

- In—an- announcement made; in
chapel last Tuesday, Edgar Patter-

but it was fsit_to be more_cou-} son-secretary-of-the-} ate
venient for these who wished 10 at-| asked students to contribute old

tend to have -it as the regular
time for the weekly prayer mect-
ing.

and new books to this cause.

Certain: Types _
Certain {ypes of books especially

The program consisted o1 several needed include college or prepara-

prayers by different men in the

4 C T., Wooly, and Bud all had an carly breakfast at “Thompson's Tav- community. Prayers were jor the

ier” Saturday mora.

To be truthful, we think they were airaid that] community, personal and national

they would miss breakfast so they just-stayed on hand aitee the night’s repentance,. world peace, and thé

Teslivities

, Screw and Zoot were an awiul cute couple Saturday night, don't you
think’ Jt és manored thas they accepted 2@ bid fo goon the stage as
proleszional dancers. Is that fight, Allen? o?

men in the service. | fale college
glee club also contributed its part.

In past years this occasion has
rheen observer in the Cdllege audi-

George Me Ader. former Davidsonian and Hamickic, came through ai cerium duping the chapel exercises

mitermis: ion Friday night wilh a very good teed. Tt was a rare trea tto the
“amazon” dates of the bh A broihers. and their “Obs and “Abs” echoed

thrauch the house during the whole party. “Or way it jnst that the}

| Mcv\den pigs had broken ont of captivity and Scere within hearing dis
tance?
Converse On the Ball

After a wery close survey, we have come to the conclusion that Con-
verse College was at the head of the list this week end. Come on Tar
ileels, what have dhese sand fappers got that you haven't or_is it just in
different provortions ?

Rurrah tor the Board of Trustees! They're going io let us dance.

7 Xow, the wolves will probahiy howl because the dances arn't in Charlotte.

As Confucius would say, “So solly, please!” But stail he dian't have
tc satisfy Davidson “wolves.’-

_- Scofield’s A Wolf
Vatious questions have? been asked during the last iew days that we
Maybe you can. Where were all of the

matic. ‘aggressive, imperialistic cap-(cute gals at the. K. A. banquet Saturday night or was it supposed to

‘italism of Tiritaia and America, and
their bind unwillingness to look
upon Russia ia any other light thaw
that of the Red menace, than it docs
in _the_expansionist ambitions of
Russian communism, _

NO QUOTA SET
(Continued from Page 1)

(ay Ry the institution that he is
-pursuing aconese—of—study in one
of these pre-professional fields. and

tp eaentitte his preeres etree
complete such pre-professional
course of study within 24 months
from the date of certification.

(b) By a recognized medical, den-
tal. veterinary, osteopathic. or theo-
logical school that he is accepted
for admission and will be admitted
to undertake his professional stud-

he a stag affair? What has the, Pioneer Club got that Hugo's joint
doesn'ts Wo, besides Joe Scoficid is “bigyest wolf on the campus?
Why do fllush-o-grams always come on Thursday of a dance, week-end?
Well, we can't answer them. Not here anyway. Send your answers in
care of yours truly and you'll get a yellow lolly pop as a reward.

Well, fellows, it’s, been fun and we certainly hope that we haven't
made anybody see “red” or caused anyone to wish to tar and. feather
“vours truly” and cemove his unwanted presence from the town of
Davidson. , Until next time keep your feet clean and your name out‘ of
print. .

hy Mr. Hengeveld, is that this order| instead of February

rots fits Elect ow Narch’ T, 1944) originally set.

15, the date

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR.

ies upon completion of -his pre- @
professional work; and -
(c) By the National Roster of

Scientific and Specialized Personnel
of War Manpower Commission that
his .certification of the institution
as to his course of study and com-
petence, and as to his prospective
date of completion is correct to the
best of its knowledge and helléf;
and that his deferrment, if granted,
will be within the quota for such
preprofessional students.”

Another important fact. revealed

SHIP AHOY
RESTAURANT _

THE PLACE TO

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

FRATERNITY STATIONARY

¢ PENNANTS

® SANDWICHES _
* COLD DRINKS

¢ SCHOOL SUPPLIES

¢ CANDY

AT *

The Student Store

MANAGERS

on the appomtied day, duc WH was
decided that sinee the chapel hou

came just before dinner it would be
inconvenient and tn some casés im-
possible for some of thie members
of the cothmunity to attend.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise

Davidson, N. C.:

114,

tory school textbooks m= current
use, standard works in English lit-
erature, detective stories by well-
knawn authors, language books, in-
cluding grammars and reads in Eng-
lish, French, German, and Spanish,
and selections from the | Modern
Library and iike eoliections.

The following types of reading
iaitler are rot accepiable:, maga-
zines and newspapers: any book -
having military sgmificance, par-
tiewlaphy advanced works in) phy=-
sics, chemistry. radio. and geog-
raphy, which were pubhsted since:
1938 ;-books\criticizing existing mil-
ilary, political Beonomic ang) social™
institutions; and BisfOries discuss-
hg European er world. history since

ee

All writven comments have to be

| crased before the books are shipped.

Jor censoring regulations prohibit
tbe ‘passage. of-anything other than
printed matter.

DUNBAR STNDIOS

Portraits

College Annuals

ALUMNI

WRITE TO OUR

ar

“sy

OVER THERE

SHEAFFER’S

Complete

__ VOYAGER

V-MAIL OUTFIT

NEWT SPENCER ,

BILL SMITH

v Don’t be a ‘sap’
‘FAKE SAPP’S COLD TABLETS
— When Cold starts =

