Page Twe

- THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, October 26, 1944

The Pavidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year

“For a Better Davidson” / ;

JIM LOVE

Renee . Editor
JIM ALEXANDER ~.. Busi M
fidn UMN aeutectedacublakawebouscuues a Associate Editor
George Apperson Law nn neue -neee----22.-.....-Assistant Editor
[SC StUKEh Uuwanuucaunencbuwcelavavecusauce Sports Editor
Ronnie Dietrick -......-.---.-2 22.2... Assistant Sports Editor
Hil Masters... ._...-....-----.---.--..-...--..Managing Editor
Mel Winstead_._-...-..-_.-___- .--.-.---Managing . Editor
George 1OUNHi co seco ckl occ .......Feature Editor
JOCs SCBKOR  sescscacsecs ay ---- Circulation Manager

Advertising Manager

Watered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRECENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Avg. New York, N. Y.

CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion.
As,,such it welcomes any contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not ‘contain
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday
night of the week that it is to.be printed, and the
editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or communication.

Frehman Caps

The editorial in the last issue of The
Davidsonian was primarily concerned
with traditions at Davidson: traditions
which have been here as long as Davidson
has. Among the more hallowed of these
traditions are the ones which go by the
name of freshmen regulations and fresh-
men traditions, One tradition in particu-
lar has caused much controversy during
the past two weeks, among the students
and the faculty. It is freshmen caps. It
seems like freshmen hats have been dis-
appearing by the dozens this year and a
lot of people seem to think this is very un-
natural and a definite cause for alarm.
That is pretty hard to see becatigé they
have been disappearing by the dozens as
long as there have been any freshmen
caps, and itis pretty hard to see why they
won't continue to disappear in the future.
It seems that the idea of abnormal times
has entered in to it. We believe that if
any of the boys who have left Davidson
for the forces should come back and see
and hear the things which have been said
about freshman caps, they would be ut-
terly stricken with amazement and dis-
may. .There has been a lot of talk about
the abolishment of freshmen caps lately
and we believe that this is the most absurd
thing which has happened in the memory
of the present student body. Somebody
has even been prone to remark that Dav-
idson by the continuing of acts Jike this
could very easily become a glorified prep
school. Surely this could not happen to
us. However, if the abolishment of
freshmen caps does comé into effect, it
will'surely do something to the morale of
the Davidson student body.

It seems that all this discussion rose
out of the fact that several boys have been

She DAVI DSON IAN Presents

Editorials.

C features

selling the hats at an enormous profit. Is
this unheard of? Not-at all. It seems
that the idea of “taking” freshmen hats
has become as much of a tradition as
wearing them. Some boys who are up-
perclassmen have said that they bought
as many as ten or more hats last year and
the year before. Why wasn’t there some
mention of the abolishment of hats in the
last two years. Maybe it is the caliber
of the Davidson student body. Maybe it
isn’t, but two or three years ago there was
hardly a boy in the student body who
would complain unduly about this ‘‘tak-
ing” of hats. Even right now if anyone
should take a poll of the freshmen as to
what their attitude about this situation is
that they would say definitely not to a-
bolish them. The freshmen get as much
enjoyment out of trying to keep them as
the upperclassmen do of “taking” them.
It has gotten to be a sport.

It is certainly our duty to keep up these
traditions “for the boys. who have left
them behind ¥ery ete in tact. I don’t
believe anyone would like to come back to
Davidson and see not freshmen caps and
see.the power of the Court of Control,
while it is not abolished, at least curtailed.

Dewey vs. Roosevelt

Amefican students as a whole have never taken
a definite part in national politics. Their world
has remained detached from the more active phases
of national life. College has been looked upon as a
preparative stage, the student as not being ready
for participation in it.

There is no group in the nation today who can
so confidently expect the future leaders to come
from their midst. The man whose faculties have
been regulated by education and self-discipline is
most naturally, expected to aSsume leadership in
divers phases of public and private life.

Seldomly has there been a time when’ students
are taking a more vital interest in national affairs.
They realize that the burden of Government in the
future will fall fully on them. They realize too
that these problems will be immeasurably great.
The unsolved problems of today and the problems
of tomorrow willl combine to stagger the statesman,
economist and political idealists.

The time for great wise statesmanship finds us
seriously lacking. The coming election serves only
to accentuate this fact. We cannot choose exeept
the lesser of two evils.

‘One can promise to sink us deeper into the
morass in which we find ourselves. The other holds
no hope but for quasi-anarchy.

There are only two roads: one to ‘dictitorial
regimentation, the other to inconceivable national
confusion. When we should be riding the crest of
the wave we find ourselves inundated by it. And
the wave of our time is indeed tidal.

Hope for a secure peace following this war is
now shadowy. There is shaping in the future more
titanic and decisive struggle. America must become
an armed camp in order to preserve her national
integrity, and to prevent political and military ag-
gression by foreign armies. There must be waged
a never ending fight against political systems un-
tempered by Christian principle. Now the fight is
to keep what we have. .

Did the times ever demand greater leadership?
Was it ever more lacking? Nations have risen by
the appearance of truly great leaders. in crucial
times. They likewise have fallen when these leaders
have failed to appear. Though the die is cast, it is
not too late for a truly great man to lead in the
remaking of future and lead us as a nation from
our present chaos into that bright future for which
we should have been destined. The times can never
make a mean man great—it only allows great men
to exercise their genius to the fullest. The young
generation before whom the future lies, looks be-
yond the present to a leader who they will not fail
to recognize when he comes. The hope of the na-
tion is not dead until its young men have ceased to
seek the light, for nations live and prosper by un-
selfish devotion that stands above all personal am-
bition, $

By Your
Roving Prophet

New Upperclassmen Regulations

Sept. 18, 1945.. Opening. of School.

1, Upperclassmen shall show re-
spect to Freshmen at all times.

2. Upperclassmen must know all
college songs and yells by the sec-
ond year Of school and must be able
to repeat them any time asked to do
so by Freshmen.

3. Upperclassmen must carry laun-
dry when asked to do so by a Fresh-
man.

4. Upperclasmen must wear, at all
times, the caps prescribed for them
by the Freshman Class.

5. Upperclassmen shall not .walk
on the grass of Davidson Campus.

6. Upperclassmen shall remain
seated until all Freshmen have left
the room after chapel. 3

7. Upperclassmen must attend all
pep meetings and are subject to a
shirtail at these meetings.

8. Upperclassmen are required to
attend all major athletic events 15
minutes early and remain through-
out the entire contest.

9, Upperclassmen must wear the
nameplate given to them by the Y.M.
CA. until October 10,

10. Upperclassmen “must be seen
and not heard.

OK you upperclassmen get those
suitcases up to 404 Watts in a hurry

(Continued on Page 7)

This Might
Be You

By Hil Masters

Have you ever had a perfect eve-
ning ruined by a card game? Well
a person I know had and according
to him it was no fun.

It seems that a week before a
game in Charlotte, my friend and
two other boys called some girls
they knew in Charlotte and proposed
dates for after the game. The girls
readily accepted, due to the man
power shortage, and the time was
set.

They could hardly wait for the
moment. All day they would sit in
their classes and dream of that
night. Would it ever come?

They viswalized moonlight strolls
or cruising along a highway with a
radio softly playing. Each thought
that entered into their mind shook
them with* anxiety for the coming
night.

It was Friday and that night was
the game and after that—the date.
“Oh! Would that bell ever ring?”
they thought. Couldn’t stand it much
longer. It should have rung ten
minutes ago. Maybe the clock had
stopped, Ahh, there it goes ... all
through.

Well, this friend of mine said they
went to the game and everywhere
they saw a girl they wondered if

(Continued on Page 7)

Gunning Around

While Selective Service, income taxes, rationing, and registration of
Freshmen still exist there will always be questionnaires sent out and

the usual ordeal of filling them in to contend with.

Let us consider

the average simplified, notified, qualified, and petrified questionnaire.

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

TYPE

OR PRINT PLAINLY—DO NOT FOLD—DO NOT ROLL—

DO NOT MAIL— DO NOT

(First Name) (Middle Name) (ant Name) (Jr. or III)

bk we cmmemmwemmmnmnne oe o + een nn- .

(City or Post Office)

(State) (Draft Classification)

Color..-. Race.... Creed ~_(If you have no color or creed check here__)

INSTRUGIIONS: Fill out in triplicate. Mail the original to your

local Garbage Dept. One copy for your Personal File to aid your heirs

in breaking your will. The other copy is extra, just so we can request

triplicate copies. F j

PENALTY: Anyone who wilfully refuses to fill out this questionnaire

will be sorry, ftve years of hard labor or both.

1. How many questionnaires have you received from how many offices
and government agencies?.._:-.

74

(a) If answer to (2) is “no” answer “does not apply.”
(b) If answer to (2) is “yes” give at least one good reason,
(c) If answer to (2) is “yes” answer the following :

/ GDdeStates eas: ee %
If state of coma you need not answer ;-2-2-b, or 2-c, but
must file separate forms A-20160--C—C—0972g—B29.

(and don’t ask us where to get them). g
(d) Which of your parents were present at your birth?
Mother. ___- Father....-. ese
3. (a) Append in triplicate detailed description of your household pos-
sessions other than dependents.
(b) List below all shirts you now own free and clean (Make, size,
color, laundry markings, length of tail—Reg. 97513—Ck6).
4. Who was that woman I seen you with last night?

+o ------ - - +--+ --- + --------

IN BIN Chee eae ie oe eee ee ela se aa ce
Telephone Numbers se< coe te ae a

5. Do you shave every day?----..--.-....(Answer “yes” or “no”),
(Women and children under 16 years of age answer “does not apply”).
(a) Is your razor electric? ..-----------...(Answer “yes” or “no”),

(1) If answer is “yes” give source of power----.---...__.

(b) What beard softener do you uwse—Shaving cream___..___________
Lye----.... Soap zs... (Did you turn in your tube? Reg. FL88).

6. Do you..own. one-or more radios? .22-...-------_--._2- {2
(a) Do you lose your mind when you hear the singing commercials? ..

(b) Can you tell one brand of cigarettes from another?

Note: Your answer. to this question will be treated with strict confi-
dence unless someone wants to see it. 4

7.. Did anyone help. you answer these questions?__..(Be honest now).
8. List ,reading matter you receive regularly? ____-
(Excluding O,P.A. bulletins and cut cards). :
The’ undersigned certifies that the information in this report is

correct and complete to the best of his knowledge and belief.
Signediises 2 SoS een rt en eee a nee ar
(If for any reason you cannot write mark X and state

reason in your Own handwriting).
{
