Page Twe

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tuesday, May 1, 1945

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year —

“For a Better Davidson”

J. S. BLAIN
JIM ALEXANDER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Hil Masters sudunakecoreraidealusnpiwsstescuus Associate Editor
BPRS SIGNOl:. ovcccsccccsesuc cosas cuoususeus Assistant Editor
Att MOLING GasscasGsnuecdsucescscbasaledeccgunsns Feature Editor
Bits MIKOON OL: Sencucntnecssscanusedscencbcltescsus Sports Editor
BUG GOlGGh uss scunewscsocscescueuuacconssncauns Managing Editor
MeL WiARStORE -cicsia means nnSecscucncsacgecaccs Managing Editor
Ralph Smith --_-.-.--.--...---------------.- Managing Editor
GOOFZE se GUNN Sis cs Se secc sa el cae ceeccnnce Managing Editor
Ellis Hiterjcusuucsesncudsenesdeseacessscce Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Cifculation Manager

Ellis White
Jack Lazenby -----
,» Newt Spencer

Entered as second-class matter at the
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3,

Post Office at
1879,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten ‘cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

@EPRESENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

; National Advertising Service, Inc.

College Publish
420 MADISON AvE. Ney York, N. Y.
Cmcaco - BOSTON - Los ANGELES - SAN Faancisco

Elections...

There has been a great deal of talk
among the students recently advocating
open elections. The elections held last
week have made many people conscious
of the fact which we pointed out in the
last Davidsonian, namely that greater
interest and -efficiency, and less sham,
would be the result of allowing the stu-
dents to speak their minds with regard to
the candidates whom they support.

Under our present system, “It shall be

illegal for any person, group, or organiza-
tion, club, or fraternity to solicit votes for
a candidate for office.” (Article IV, Sec-
tion 9, of the Constitution of the Student
-Government). Is this necessarily inter-
preted to mean that, discussions of the re-
lative merits of candidates are not valua-
ble? It is a known fact that the dormi-
tories are the scene of hot discussions of
this type during every election period, and
points of great influence are often
brought out—but they never reach the
student body as a whole, and therefore
lose their influential power. It has been
the case in two eléctions this year that
high offices have been won by men who
aré not eligtble under the rules of the Con-
stitution, but how many students know
that? Those who do withheld any state-
ments because they would be accused of
attempting to discredit a candidate.

To forbid the use of combinations of
votes, or of the use of money in securing
votes, is a wise rule, but We question the
wisdom of forbidding open discussion of
candidates. Why not allow a limited time
in Chapel for students to discuss those
who are nominated for offices, and there-
by to prevent mistakes instead of bemoan-
ing them when it is too late to do any-
thing about them?

It would greatly increase student in-
terest in elections if everyone had ari op-
portunity to hear the points-about the
various candidates, and to s oo to these
points if) it seemed advisa

~ Jhe DAVIDSONIAN  Dosent

Editorials.

C features

“Shaky”...

Late on the night of April 5th two shots
rang out across the Davidson campus and
while we slept peacefully, the air dale
soul of “Shaky” (alias George) passed
from this troubled world.

We question the humanity of this act
and question even more seriously in this
case the so called “mercy killing” theory
expounded by some. In the minds of
most students Shaky symbolized in a way
mankind, ravaged and starving,(who had
become our’ responsibility when. we be-
came conscious of his presence. We ac-
cepted the challenge of “Am I my, broth-
er’s keeper?” and nursed Shaky back to
a calm and happy life.

Our labors bore fruit when on March
31st Davidson College proudly announced
a major triumph in the field of vetinary
medicine. Experiments made by un-
known students on Shaky resulted in gain-
ing of advanced knowledge in this field
which was given to the world for the good
of all mankind. Shaky then found a place
in every man’s heart. Loving hands con-
tinued to feed him and Shaky fast became
an institution, very much a part of life
at Davidson.

Our hearts are teat, The individual

_.or individuals either directly or indirectly

responsible for Shaky’s death should
know that the Davidson student’s faith in
justice has been shattered—Shaky had no
trial before his: execution; the student
body, to whom he belonged by right, had
no word inthe matter. Our philanthropic
natures have been hardened by the pre-
meditated shooting of one upon whom we
had lavished tender care in the humane
spirit which every man should possess and
foster. Truly the more we see of men,
the more we admire dogs.

Short Chapel...

The last issue of The Davidsonian car-
ried an editorial suggestion that Chapel
speakers be good enough to limit their
talks, especially on student days, Tuesday
and Thursday. This was not an idle com-
ment used to fill space, but was an expres-
sion of student opinion, and it seems to
have been largely ignored. We would
again suggest that speakers, students or
faculty. members, bear in mind the fact
that those two days are the only times in
which the student body can carry on dis-
cussions concerning student matters. A
brief devotional. should certainly be con-
ducted, but is it necessary to develop the
Scripture lesson to the extent of a thirty
minute lecture? The students are con-
scious of the length of a talk, and their in-
terest lags considerably. when the speaker
goes on and on after making his point
clear. Could we not have a little more
cooperation from the faculty in this re-
spect ?

While we are commenting on Chapel,
may we offer congratulations to Bob Hol-

linger on his excellent talk of a few weeks
ago. It is not often that student speakers
see so clearly and deeply into their sub-
ject, or present it so vigorously and for-
cibly. We should be proud of our one
and only Phi Beta Kappa man! *

Murgatroyd

Messin’
"Round

Well, the Spring Frolics have
come and gone. It was the only
logical thing to do, in respect to our
late President to call off the formal
dance on Saturday night. Even
though this dance was not held, I
am sure that the students and their
dates enjoyed the evening. Many
went to Charlotte for dinner and
a movie and some ventured to
Mooresville to ‘“Stonestreet’s” for
dinner and returned to Davidson
and spent an enjoyable evening of
informal parties in the fraternity
houses. Later in the evening, we

went to the Guest House to attend

a memorial service in honor of
President Roosevelt. The Davidson
students joined the rest of the
world to mourn for one of the
greatest leaders and men in the his-
tory of our country.

Now that the end of this semes-
ter is in rather close view, there
will be very little social -life on the
campus. Rather than worry with
social matters I am sure that we
would rather spend all our time
with a trig book or an English book
or even a ROTC field manual over
our arms. With the coming of re-
views and examinations not too far

away, I am sure this will be the,

sight on the hill. I hardly think
that any good bridge games will be
in play, and certainly students will
have no time to take sun baths or
peroxide their hair. By the way,
has anyone’ seen: any good sunny
days recently? I am beginning to
lose all the tan I have acquired to
date.

It seems that we will not have to
worry about having social life on
our campus. Recently, Mitchell in-
vited several students there to their
Junior Senior banquet and now
Winthrop has asked the _ entire
student body to be the guests of
a couple of dormitories there. Let’s
surprise them and the entire stu-
dent body go down, yes, you too,
Drew.

It appeared that the recent ‘music
clinic (for high schools) provided
entertainment for many of the stu-
dents here. Imagine all those college
seniors, juniors and sophomores
dating those high school freshman
and sophomores. Overheard at the
movie on Friday night, this con-
versation between.one of the girls
and a Davidson student. The girl
asked a certain Davidson man, “Do
you have the time?” The David-
soy man replied, “Yes, do you have
the time?” Yes, it seems that a
great deal of entertainment
provided for both parties.

It must have been colder than I
thought the night of April the four-

was

teenth, ‘cause many fellows (and
their dates) were seen carrying
blankets to and from the dormi-

tories.

To those lucky fellows that. will
be_on_the_hill_this-summer,a-happy
thought for you. Many young ladies
or rather co-eds will add themselves
to the number of co-eds that already
walk the hallowed halls of Cham-
bers and the walks of the campus.
Maybe, the April Fool prediction of

this paper is’ steadily coming true,”

but after the week-end of the music
clinic, I believe that the niajority
of the students would rather David-
son remain, a man’s school.

It seems that the co-eds will cer-
tainly enjoy their summer, judging
from the frist part of it. I hardly
think that it would be a good idea
to tell the student body that you
will be at Myrtle Beach for about
two weeks at the close of school.

In

Respect
To...

By GUESS WHO

With the Russians knocking on
the doors of Berlin, everybody seems
to think that the war is over. Many
individuals hope that the Red Army
will utterly wipe the capital of Ger-
many off the map, and still others

.have mentally devised horrible tor-
tures for Hitler and his henchmen.
All of these statements are exam-
ples of poor reasoning. In the first
place the war is not over with the
fall of Berlin, Let alone Japan, we
still have to capture Germany. This

statement, but by it I

mean we have to capture the Ger-
man people. Reform them? Yes, we
may use that expression, but a bet-
ter one is, to teach them. Now you

ask, “Teach them what?” To teach
them that there are other countries
beside: their own. For about three
decades they were enveloped in the
idea that Germany was supreme and
they were so called “supermen”. It
was not their fault that they act
the way that they do. Just as we are
brought up on democracy and God,
they were brought up on facism
ahd Hitler. Don’t we believe in
Democracy? Naturally, then they
believe in their code. The United
Nations must take the German peo-
ple aside and begin at the beginning
by instructing them how to live
with one another and with other
nations peacefully.

If the Russians destroy Berlin it
would only be an excuse for another
war. That should be our first les-
son to the Germans. The fact that-
even though our hate for them is
great and after such atrocities as
those recently discovered, we,
a civilized people, can not hold ma-
lice against a nation when it comes
to destroying and obliteratng a
beautiful city. Berlin, we are told,
is one of the most beautiful cities
in the world. Some of its buildings
and parks were built centuries ago
and still retain their air of dignity,
Why not leave them intact so that
future generations will know that
there was a time when men built
instead of tearing down.

If the allies killed Hitler or any
of his henchmen it would be a fatal
mistake. Naturally they should. be
given a trial to judge the crimes
that they had ordered, but to kill
them in cold blood would be wrong.
It would not only be wrong from
our point of view but in later years
they would be used as martyrs to a
new cause and we would have to
start allover again. They should be
treated as bad.tenants; kicked out
and sent away where they can do no
harm.

It is the German people that we
have, to deal with. Their warped
minds and souls must be straighten-
ed-out-so that they wilt be able to
live with other people socially. The
mistake that was made in the last
peace must not be made again. This
time there must be no’chance for
them to uprise,

We must be clear minded when
we go'into this peace. No thoughts
of revenge should. enter our mind
for if so the outcome will be entire-
ly opposite from what we wish it.
It is in our hands, men of Davidson,
the rebuilding of the new world will
be our job. We must not shirk from
our responsibility neither should we
cast it off as another burden, for
if we do our children will know the
horrow of screeching bombs and
torn flesh.

a strange
