Page Twe

.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, February 9, 1845

The Dabidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

VETS ABIGAIN Vaiiiscdasccssusgsacccecss muse EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM ALEXANDER .-.--_--...------.- BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

George Apperson £....--..-- Setdubuataasabane Associate Editor
BTUCE MISES sueusclOlocuckcanseucoveidaecusa CAM BIStant “maitor.
MGR GES 2s. cc udu csdnscsaan dudes asiesnure pReAtUre, -OItor
NSIC ANCOR!  Sosuacs gs cddsduucccUansucks alcbsnaee SDULth TUUICOr
BG) Golde: cesses cs Beisel lec ceccascstasns Manaping: wuitor
Mel Winstead ~_..--. Managing Editor
Art Rolling menncnnccoee-ee, Managing Editor
ReIPH GTS Mith c1eks be saseuubdeeGAn wauskbeouse Managing Editor
George GUNN < ccc cgeccapenbecacuasnauscceces Mananing LUItOr

Ellis White

- Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

JOMMBA WVHItG ccc astesccanbuneaaues Assistant Business Manager
Jack “Lazenby --.. nee ... Advertising Manager
INGWt SPNClhs ccullcescusceubsacscadeuuece Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

Printed by The _ :
STANDARD PRINTING COMPAN
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.

Piblich R,

College F
420 MADISON Ave. ~— NEw YorK, N. Y.
CMICA6O - BosTOR - LOS AAGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

3 ep

This: paper is the offical history of college life,
and is a medium of student and faculty opinion.
As such it welcomes any contributions or com-
munications to it, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to faculty or students, pro-
fanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editor’s hang by Monday
night of the week that it is to be printed, and the
editor reserves the right to reject part or-all of any
contribution or communication.

A

Clean Up.---

Much has been spoken and written in
the past few months about Davidson tra-
dition, but it seems that our student or-
ganizations are doing very little to carry
on this tradition. Most of the talk has
been directed at the freshmen—now it is
time for those who are the upperclass-
men, and the leaders on the campus, to
think about how they are perpetuating
Davidson customs.

One of the cherished traditions here is
student government, but this inheritance
is one which we of the present student
body have abused greatly.
sider some basic facts:

Let: us con-

The student body constitution sets forth
what is known as the “point system,” a
system established to protect individuals
from becoming overburdened with extra-
curricular activities and “to make for
greater efficiency in the administiation of
student affairs.” Under the point system
forty points is the maximum to be held by
any one man during a semester.

During the past semester individuals
held offices which carried point values of
anywhere from fifty to over one hundred

points. At present there are students
who are carrying as many as_ eighty
points. , Now, why is this situation exist-
ent, and why is it not corrected? Is the
present student body (small though it is)
incapable of doing its part in upholding
the constitution, and do four or five men
have to do the work of ten?

that a Point System Committee is to pe
established immediately after the inaugu-

The constitution states (Article XV)
ration of the Student Council, and that
this committee shall enforce the Point
System. If such a committee has been
established, it has not done its job this

The DAVIDSONIAN Desents

Editortals

C features

year. If it has not been established, it
should be done now.

Naturally, students of pre-war calibre
are scarce now, but there are certainly
more than four or five men at Davidson
who are capable of holding an office and
doing a creditable job. And what will
happen when the present job-holders
leave? Who will be able to take over and
run things without any previous experi-
ence?

Article XV also gives the Student
Council the power to amend the Point Sys-
tem if the Point\System Committee rec-
ommends it. Would it not be better to
extend the limit to fifty points and en-
force that limit than to just ignore this
very important section of the constitu-
tion? Of course, until a Point System
Committee is established it is not possible
to carry out this plan.

Davidson alumni are proud of the sys-
tem of student government which they
have seen working at Davidson. We do
not believe that they would: be proud .of
the present student body. which, instead
of recognizing the necessity for some
changes, has simply ignored the rules by
which our student government is sup-
posed to function. Before we try to teach
the new men about Davidson tradition, we
had better clean up our own back-yard.

Welcome...

In days when change has become a part
of the life: of Davidson it is no longer
unusual to see a large freshmen class en-
ter at the second semester. These men
do not find the same organization that
functioned. in peace-time.. There have
been many changes but the essential part
of Davidson remains. The new men will
find that the part of the college which has
produced men of sound education dnd in-
fluenced the development ofa Christian

character is as alive today as it ever was.

The war has taken many things away but
one may still find here a scholastic stand-

ard as high as it ever was, a Davidson

spirit as true as it ever wase—=—"

Davidson bids these men welcome.
There is a sincere hope that each man
will take advantage of all the college has
to offer for there new life is a time of
opportunity. Joined to this welcome may
be some advice which experience has
shown to be valuable.

First: Take College seriously. In high
school or prep schoo] you could ‘get by”
with little work of a low standard. Here
probably is your last educational oppor-
tunity before you join the world’s work,
Fach student should have proper ambi-
tion, for such a man will succeed where
brains alone might fail. “The ambitious
surpass the rough places in life, through
hard but rewarding labor.

: Second; Adjust yourself soon to -col-
lege. He who finds a proper. balance in

his life here shows an ability to adjust to »

fortune and vicissitudes in later life.

Practical
| Jokeism

In 1944 a distinguished group of
psychiatrists gathered in New York
to discuss the disturbing effects of
Practical Jokes. Some very peculiar
incidents were brought to light in
this cnference. ”

‘Dr. Renaut, a prominent psychia-
trist of Paris, cited the case of Ma-
dame Lisa Duncan, as told to him
by her husband. Madame Duncan
took in boarders and one day an
American tourist engaged a room in
her. house. In time, she became fond
of the young Americah and one day
The
turtle was no larger than her thumb

but she cherished it as though it
were her own offspring. One day
the young man secretly substituted
a turtle which was. a little bit larger
than the first one. Madame Duncan
was overjoyed for she thought that

he brought her a small turtle.

the turtle’s growth was due to her-

tender care. Every few days a larger
turtle was substituted until she had
a turtle the size of a manhole’ cover.
Still Madame Duncan loved her pet
and bestowed upon it a: motherly
devotion, Then the American re-
versed the process and began re-
ducing the size of the turtles day by
day until the original turtle had
been replaced. Madame Duncan had
watched the turtle grow smaller day
by day and had paced to and fro
with almost fanatical anxiety. One
day they found her as she is now,
sitting in the window pulling her
chin, On her facg.was a look of hor-
rified disbelief ‘for Beside her on the
table lay a tiny turtle egg, all that
remained of her pet!

If you wish another example to
the effects of this widespread mala-
dy, there is the case of Tom Jack-
son of New York.

At a New Year's Eve party Tom
Jackson was in very high spirits
and finally in the latter part of the
evening fell asleep. His host, a prac-
tical joker, was fully’ prepared for

an,occasion of this sort. He carried:

Tom to a room in the rear of his
house and deposited him on the
floor. This room was ‘very unique in
every way. Tom was lying on what
appeared to be the ceiling, which
was papered and‘in the middle there
was an elaborate chandelier sticking
straight up. Above him was a regu-
lar floor plan. Eyery detail was
perfect, even to the cigarettes in
the ash trays. All was firmly se-

cured to what was in reality the

ceiling of the room.

When Tom awoke he was very
confused as to what had occurred,
He couldn't understand how he hap-
pened to be lying on the ceiling.
His first thought was to get to the
floor where he belonged, but all his
efforts were unsuccessful and he
finally beat his brains out trying to
crawl down the wall to the floor.

You are probably now asking me
why I wrote this. In truth I-can only
say I was tortured by the burning
Varga girls before my eyes.

Hours and hours of endless, gruel-
ing torture, the sweat from my brow
blinding me, and the continued leer-
ing of my executioners, All of this
I went through for you, dear read-
ers, only to be spurned by those
who think little of me. Wouldn't
they ever stop? Mercy, mercy,
please mercy!! That light, turn out
that light.

Glowing like newly molten steel!
But I. didn’t give in. Then it was
bribes. When I saw it I couldn't
resist it. It was the yo-yo that did it.

Jest
Roaming

By Hil Masters

Howdy, folks, how’s every little
thing? You'll have to forgive me if
I make any mistakes—have patience
with me.

The other day I was “jest roam-
ing” around and I happen to drop
into Watts dormitory where some-
thing of interest~Wwas going on. It
seems that a few of the fellows over
there have organized a special fra-
ternity. You see, I was jest walking
down the hall when some of them
came strolling down. They all.greet-
ed me very cordially and after quite
a spell of “bulling” they asked me in
to their lodge. This being rush week,
they were naturally trying to get
new freshmen. The fraternity was
called Sigma Delta Psi, the meaning
of which I was to find out if I was
initiated. I was introduced to the
four brothers who seemed to be the
only ones in the fraternity. Their
names I learned later were Mr.
Chips, B. B. Rifle, Lord Brown
Nose and Isaac Figstien, They also
had titles in the Society but those
were also secret to the uninitiated.
After a round of punch and tea bis-
cuits, Lord Brown Nose and B. B.
Rifle took me intthe chapter room
(the wash room) and explained the
purposes of the chapter to me. They
also told me that they would like to
have me become a pledge in their
Society. They told me that they
were all good fellows*and that they
all stuck together in thick and thin,
mostly thin. After a moment of con-
sideration I consented to become a
pledge. I was then taken into the
other room where I shook hands

‘with the other brothers. A date was

set for the formal initiation and the

remainder of the evening was spent

by a very interesting discussion on °
the daffodil and how it’ is related

to the bees. The next evening at ap-

proximately seven o'clock I went
over to the dormitory where they
were waiting for me. After a chat
they took me in the chapter room
and. locked the door, much to the
anger of the students on the floor.
The details of the initiation I cannot
repeat for they are secret but I can
assure you that it was a Very im-
pressive ceremony, in an odd sort of
way. I was then told the titles of the
officers. Mr. Chip’ was called “Oc-
tagon Bay”; B. B. Rifle was “Water
Pistol”; Lord Brown Nose went un-
der the name of “Daddy Long Legs”
and Isaac Figstein was jest “Small
Change.” Also I was told the mean-
ing of Sigma Delta Psi; now don't
tell a soul about this for it is a
secret. Its meaning is The Society
of Davidson Psissies. Lord Brown
Nose seemed worried about some-
thing called the point system but I
being a new freshman knew noth-
ing about it. Due to the shortage of
lemons the punch was not very tasty
that night but the muffins were very
good for Mr. Chips spent all day
over a hot stove making them, Isaac,
who was treasurer, then informed
me that funds were extremely low

. because the chapter had just put

their money into a set-of books on
how to raise lillies. So, it was neces-
sary for me to pay my dues in ad-
vance,

Soon, I found it: necessary to re-
tire. So, borrowing a copy of the
“Ladies Home Journal” from B. B.
Rifle, I went to my abode, thinking
over the day's events. It’s no telling

what kind of people you'll meet by
“jest roaming”,
