Page Twe 1 & ::

PN

se, Ales dS we ae
aw

The Bavidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD ..........-.. -.------ EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY BUSINESS-MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editor .....-.5......:.....s-...2..0.-,----Hil Masters

Assistant Editor --.- . Harry McLean
Assistant Editor ---- ...--. Joe Stukes
Péeattite : Editor: 22 22..sc ferank Barr, Jr.
Managing Editor ------.-. Ed Golden

Managing Editor ...........-.—....----—----.--- Lonnie Turner

Managing Editor ey _. Jimmy Nisbet
MUSIC RONOS cctscuecccs cccsedssdeows .. Frank Barr +
SpHorts; Lditowcuscsssscccse ese Sterling Edwards

Managing Sports Editor —~.~.--.-..----...... Dave Gambrell
Asst. Sports. Editor *s...........2.-,. Bill Gamble
SHEP Otoprapher cusses. $55. sees sacs ccscdctbcossseu Dave Farr

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager -..-..------.--------- Bob Smoak
Advertising Manager -......- .--Bob Gambrell
Cifoila tion Mana Ser cccccccccenccsccesecongasenccese Bob Brooks

. Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897,

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.5@ the Collegiate year

Printed by Lhe
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL novennitng ef
National Advertising Service, lnc.

‘ Publishers Representative
420 MADWON AvE: New York, N. Y.
@meace + Besves - Lee Amosias - Sas Pasnerese

Courtesy Means Much..

In this new world in which we find our-
selves adjusting to more progressive ways
and thoughts and ideals, we yet find many
old ideas and customs worthy of inclusion. +
The Atomic Age can only be the better
era in which to live if it adapts some of
the principles of the Age of Chivalry. In
other words, no period of time can be a.
good period if it fails to uphold good fel-
lowship, loyalty and courtesy, for these
things are the foundation of citizenship.
And citizeriship is the scale upon which
we are weighed and judged.

The seed of these principles are sown.in
early childhood and grow through the
school years. When a man reaches col-

“lege he also reaches the period of testing
and growth. To a large degree it depends
upon his fellow students as to whether or
not his future harvest will be large or
small—a success or a failure. Good fel-
lowship develops rapidly at college and is
a great force for good.

Because the spirit of comradeship is
strong at Davidson College, the newly ar-
rived student is received with a. cordial
greeting and is made to feel at home, He
needs this feeling’ to combat the home-
sickness and loneliness that is sure to sha-
dow his first few weeks away from home
and to make him wonder if being a “man
on his own” is worth the price. There is
no snobbery at Davidson and no waiting
around to be introduced to the new ar-
rivals. No “rat” is a stranger to an old
student. If he thought enough of David-
son College to enroll here then he is a
right guy atid worth knowing and no man
passes him without an upflung hand and
a “Hi ya, pal.” It is this friendly spirit

and unfailing courtesy that makes afresh-

matt feel that he isn’t a newcomer at all
but a “Davidson gentleman” with all the
loyalties and pride that the senior feels.

Every Davidson student accepts the re-

sponsibility of extending a welcome to in

coming men, of showing them the fine
principles of democracy upon which the

’ Thursday, November 15, 1945

ie DAVIDSONIAN 6 a

Editorials =.

Cfeatures

college operates, of giving them the per-
sonal touch and indiviudal contact so
necessary for a real comradeship. The
finest school spirit in the world starts
with. courtesy and keeps growing. It is
said of Harvard that they always keep the
speech and manners of a gentleman. At
Davidson we always remember to be

courteous. That is why Davidson College

is noted for its good sportsmanship and
exceptionally fine student body. It is a
thing we can be proud of. Something we
know is not synthetic, not an «nitation,
not a lot of high sounding words. David-
son’s fraternal spirit, Davidson’s unfail-
ing welcome,@bDavidson’s ‘‘one-for-all-
ness,” respecfgor- Others, and natural
courtesy, is not a bunch of editorial phras-
es. It’s a habit! It’s a good old Davidson
custom.

Thanksgiving ...

Yes there seems to be more gulls ar-
ound the big gray ships. The church steep-
les rise with greater pride to touch the
heavens; the earth has a sweeter smell,
and the falt leaves appear. to ‘have -died
with a little more hope_and grace this
blessed year. Even the weather has a
brighter look. .. warm and pleasant, cold
and miserable, there is still a touch of
light in the sky that wind-blown clouds
cannot obscure. The laughter of children
rings truer, the turkey-day classic is bet-
ter football, the-turkey itself has a finer
tang; and even the familiar scene of
American homes is more still and peace-
ful than it has been for some time now.
THANKSGIVING, 1945. That's a lot
to remember, much room for prayer, a
great many to thank, all these, the dead
with the white crosses. marking endless
glory; and the living, their eyes smiling,
with a final place in the morning sun. We

* thank them all, the men’who died, ~vere

wounded, lived, worked, fought, belived
. always believed. And once again,
with honest faith and clear hearts, that
might perhaps have caught and doubted
—once again we murmur thank you....
thank you, thank you, God.
CHARLES MERGENDAHL
Author of “Don’t Wait Up For Spring”

Thought for the Day...
One of the greatest temptations that
young people of today face, is the temp-
tation to deriy Christ. Not that we use his
name in vain, tell unkind jokes about His
work, or make fun of the people who are

busy in this great enterprise. But figura-,

tively we “hold the clothes” of those who
do. Passively denying Christ is just as
bad as actively denying Him, for he said:
“Come out from among them and be ye
separate.” Surély it is not asking much
of us to say, “Yes, I am a Christian,”
instead of saying, “I go to church and
Sunday school because someone makes
me.”

“But he that denieth me before men
¢hall be denied before the angels of God.”

—Luke 12:9-

Entrez Nous

Now that the war is over there are
many things returning to the campus.
For instance fraternities are opening
up. Some of them closed because of
the war, are now sweeping off the
door ts, and dusting the chairs
and tables. The ending of the war has
brought on many new additions to the
Davidson gampus, and one of them is
the introducing of a new fraternity on
the campus. So far it. has only two
brothers, the founders themselves, but
it is busily gaining popularity among
the student body, The founders, bro-
ther Joe and brother Flash, have been
unorthodox in choosing a name by not
using Greek letters. They simply call

it San-A-Nap-A-Pak Society and let,

it go at that. They won't say what it
stands for-only members have the
secret revealed to ther, Because of
the housing shortage the Society has
been forced to hold its meetings in the
basement of West ‘dormitory, but
brother Flash told me the other day
that they hoped to: open a house in
the court in the héar future, mean-
while he said, “We care keeping our
spirits up.”

A bunch of us were stratting down,
the street the other night in Char-
lotte, feeling all alone, when some very
attractive girls came up and intro-
duced themselves. One thing lead to
another and soon we were. carrying
on a very interesting conversation.
They told us that they were opening
a recreation hall on the order of. tise
U.S.G. only for civilians, That’ night
happened to be the opening night and
they ipvited us down for the celeb a-

‘tion. Who were we fo refuse? The

house itself was a farge structure and
looked as if it belonged to.a very pro-
minent citizen—fifty years ago. ‘lie
porch was all screened in and when
we asked about the kind of illumina-
tion they replied that the porch light
burned out and all that. they could
find in the way of ‘lights were some
colored ones, Over the door was a
huge sign “Youth Center No, 69’. And
then under it was another one, “Honk
Horn for Curb Service.” We went in-
side and found many people already
there, enjoying themselves. They éx-
plained the absence of the rugs as be-
ing useless when people would be
dancing all the titme. We danced to
Clyde McCoys version of “Turkey in
the Straw’, for several times and by
that time every one was up to his
neck in good spirits. At that moment
I discovered that I was by myself
with one of these girls. She probable
noticed my quizical expression, for
she told me that the rest of them
had gone for a drink of water. We
conversed for several minutes, but I
began to feél uncomfortable for the
whole house was quiet except for an
occasional squeaking of a mouse. I
didn’t quite know what to say so we
danced a few more times to the re-
cord until we became exhausted. It
was then I knew that she loved me
and I likewise, I sat down on the, sofa
and patted the place next to me. She
sat down gracefully and while licking
the ends of a cigarette she had just
rolled, she confessed her love for me,
Ah yes, ‘I think I shall never forget
that raputurous monient’ 4s we sat
there with locked pinkies, staring into
each others eyes. But, alas, as all
good things do that came to an erid,
also, She told me that her mother
wanted her to come home early arid
help with her business. We pledged
our love for each other and I went on
my way leaving her standing under
the porchlight which formed a rosy
halo about her, Oh, for the life of a
vagabond.

Poetry Corner

I dreamed Jast night of joys I’ve
never dreamed before,

Of dear and treasured memories
I'll cherish evermore.

And though my dreams went swiftly
and passed on all too fast,

They are precious joys and visions
all come true at last.

I dreamed I saw a ship that was
putting out to sea;

I dreamed the ship was strong
enough to, face what’er might be.

The ship was christened Davidson
and it stood out from the rest,

The words Alenda Lux Ubi Orta
Libertas stood bold upon her

chest. :

They hoisted yep the colors, a
pure red “and black,

And the men—they worked together,
a one united créw,\

And their..determined voices sang
clear against the sky,

“We are the crew, the ship is yoii,
Oh Davidson riding high.”

The pilot was their leader, he
Stood above the crowd

His eyes were so determined, his
shouts rang firm and loud

He spoke with voice courageous,
his eyery word their creed,

The crew stood in awe to follow
the man they chose to lead.

The winds are our ideals and the
challenge of the sea.

They urge ts ever onward a goal
for you and me.

Their gale propels our Davidson
and fills her. mighty sails,
And guides us ever over the restless

rough sea trails.

Our mast so firm and sturdy, the
mainstay of our trip,

It represents our honor, the glory-
of our Ship.

It towers toward the heaven, a
solid invincible mast,

It guides us in the straightest
course, though skies be overcast.

Though winds may lash our
mast and threaten strongest sail,
Though dangers may befall us and
faint-heartedness’ prevail,
Our words Alenda Lux Ubi Orta
Libertas, so bold and ever fast,
“Let Learning be Cherished Where
Liberty Has Arisen,”
will bring us though at last.
—CHAUCER.

Cookie’s Corn

In the parlor, there were three,
He, the parlor lamp, and she
Two is company no doubt
And so the parlor lamp went out.
—_90——__.

Mrs. Johnson opened her refrigera-
tor door. To her surprise, she saw a
rabbit inside,

“What are you doing there?” she
asked:

“Isn't this a Westinghouse?” said
the rabbit.

“Yes”, replied Mrs. J.

“Well, I’m just westing.”

—_—o——_——.

Garage Mechanic: There’s a short
circuit in your car battery.

Pats: Can you lengthen it while I
wait?

——o—___

Jack: Liz, will you marry me?

Liz: Have you seen my father?

Jack: Yes, but I still love you.
