Page Twe

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, June 28, 1945

The Pavidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD ...._.-..-...--.---
DEXTER LAZENBY

--- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS-MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Bruce. Mishel: cal ascckssuscsactsuneiasack Associate Editor
George “ADberion: occ Seeks Assistant Editor
BL AW MICSKOL ciucdlssdease dnai ct ceoutansuacee Feature Editor
Rote GOLEM Gaas cuau cnusacsaucececcsuousccccu. Managing Editor
Harry McLean -_-_---1...--.---.-.---.-2-.-.. Managing Editor
Bob Hollinger ...-.-._...-.-.-...-._....... Managing Editor
Phillip Whittier ...-....--.-.-..--....._--.. Managing Editor
GO Stukes cnc ea co ssedscckisesaec Sports editor
David Farr ._.-...--...-.-.--...-.-----.. Staff Photographer
BUSINESS STAFF
Ward Lasley, -.-+---—--.-.--.. Assistant Business Manager

Bob~Gambrell
Margie Vickers -....-..-----.
Bob Smoak

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SesasdNabdd SocsnuacedaweLe Advertising, Manager
Assistant« Business Manager
Circulation Manager

SUBSCRIPTION RATES.
Ten cents per copys $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.

Cemeaeo - Boston - Loe Amemias - SAN Francisco ¢

To The Freshmen...

.We of the Davidsonian staff would
# like to follow everyone else with a cordial
greeting to the class of ’49. That wel-
come has already been exemplified to you
by the faculty and by the three upper-
classes, and we feel sure that exeryone of
you by this time has experienced the real-
ization of that fact. You have been intro-
duced to college life, thoroughly lubricated
by the ‘soothing oils of Rush Week” and
now you consider yourSelves ready to be-
gin your college career at Davidson.

No longer are you a sophisticated
high school senior that most of you were
a few weeks ago. ¥ou_are college men,
and you ‘must adapt yourselves to a new
life. Here at Da\idson you will find that
there pervades. above all other traits an
atmosphere of friendliness, gentlemanly
deportment, and. courtesy. These traits
have been established here by classes that
have gone ahead of you, and we urge
you not to hide behind its reputation but
to begin your first year at Davidson by
putting its ideals and traditions into prac-
tice ever striving to carry them to higher
levels.

At the present you are the most im-
‘portant class in school. More is expected
of you than any other class,,for upon
you rests the responsibility of upholding
the traditions of Davidson. The war and
its influence should not cause us to give
up the program that we have’ built up in
this institution. No one knows what will
happen to educational standards or the
length of the average college career, but
the worth of activities as an application
of academic knowledge will increase as
the time element decreases.

Don’t try to conceal the fact that

you are a freshman, and don’t try to sponsibility to see that the crisis outside’

escape the few mild freshmen regulations
that are imposed upon you. Many an

The DAVIDSONIAN. Posen

Editorials

C features

alumnus of this college would tell you
that his freshman year at Davidson was
the most pleasant of his college career.
He would in all probability tell you that
this was true, because his experiences dur-
that year had proved invaluable to him.

Begin this very moment to apply
yourself to the work ahead. Work hard
to get all you can out of college while
you are here. For the first time in your
life you are probably on your own. And
remember one thing—that you came to
college to get an education. This in a
sense can be applied to much more than
book knowledge. Portions of your educa-

tion can be attained by entering into the
extra-curriculum activities. We would

like to see the student body reach an ideal
<-of everyone of. its.members participating

in some form of activity.

Finally, permit us again to welcome
you to Davidson college. You have made
an excellent choice which you will never
regret. May your stay here be one of suc-
cess and happiness, and to each and every
one of you, we extend hearty greetings,
wishing you the best that life has-to offer.

To The Upper Classes. . .

We, the members of the Sophomore,
Junior, and Senior classes, are found with
a responsibility, the scope of which, we
fear, few realize: The responsibility has
fallen upon us to act as an example and
to guide and train the new men of the
I*reshmen class. In the past years this
has been left largely to orientation, to the
court of control, and to the written and
unwritten traditions of the college. But
this, however, can no longer be.

Today’s freshmen will very likely not
enjoy four full years of Davidson’s cap-
turing influence, and it is our duty to
embed into their minds as quickly as
possible Davidson’s wonderful traditions.

We can not afford to take the chance
of letting them take it for granted, but
we must, first, let them see and realize
that we are proud of such a thing as

Davidson traditions, and secondly, we

must have them proud of our fine and
noble traditions.

Naturally, with the small student
body here this summer, we will see each
other-more often, and as a result will get
to know each other better than before.
Consequently, that brings up the question
whether or not we will like each other
better than suspected, or there will arise
in the student body a spirit of ill will and
reproach.

But we certainly have no fear of
the latter taking place amidst the stu-
dent body. Nevertheless, we would like
to charge each and every student at
Davidson tg make it his personal re-

will draw us more closely together in the
bonds of a better Davidson.

YOURS,
From The
é Sad

By Buddy Wells

Howdy Friends. This is your *y"
column with bits of news about
your Y.M.C.A. Read it and learn
what the “Y” is doing for the com-
munity and you.

Ed Golden has big plans for our
summer social life. He set things
in motion in good style with his
excellent..reception for the Fresh-
men and Co-eds at the “Y”. Our
thanks to the Quadrangle Wives
who helped with the refreshments.
Last Sunday there was a “Hymn
Sing” at the “Y” after vespers.

_Were you there? Be sure you save

‘Saturday June, 30 open for the picnic
at Harris Lake. Tentative plans are
to‘leave at 3:00 p. m. and go for
a swim or to lounge as you please.
This will be followed by a picnic
supper. There will be open house at
Fraternity Court when we return.
Later in the summer the Social

Chairman plans to have other pic- .

nics and entertaining events such
as an amateur night or stunt night.
Watch for notices of these events.

Marks Underwood has not only
organized a good Sunday School
class, but he also taught a fine lesson
the first Sunday. Sterling Edwards
was elected President of the class,
and Guy Hitchcock was elected
Secretary - treasurer. Underwood
plans to use Jim Roberson as teach-
er whenever it is possible because
he was so well liked last summer.
Other good men, like Dave Baker
who taught last Sunday, will teach
also. The class .decided ta have
practical student subjects for les-
sons, and some of the probable les-
son subjects for the summer are
“How To Know The Will Of God,”
“How To Do The Will Of God,”
“How: To Keep The Sabbath Holy,”
“The Questionable Amusements,”
and “The Use Of The Tongue,”
Underwood also plans to continue
the Sunday School classes at the
sanatorium. If you can help there,
you will find that it will help you.

Jim Nisbet reports real progress’

at Unity Cltyrch. He and Ed
Golden are serving as pastors and
they have other sttdents helping
as teachers. The “Y” is helping the
church send six of its young people
to summer conferences. Three are
at Pioneer Camp and three more
will go to the Senior Conference.
Good‘work, men.

Harry McLean has set up his
Hall Prayer Group Orgartfization
and the first meetings were Wednes-
day night. The “Y” Questionnaires
were distributed and McLean re-
ports the following attendance. 101
men on the halls, 57 at the Prayer
Meetings. These meetings are not
to help the, “Y”, but they are for
you. Take time to worship in your
room with your friends.

Blain picked a good man to start
the “Y” Chapel Services. Did you
tell G. G. how fine-his talk was?
At the second “Y” Chapel you met
your “Y” Cabinet. Sonny plans to
use some of these men to lead. the
student -chapel services. At the
next four services: you will hear
Spencer, Golden, Wells, and Robin-
son.

We are, glad to have Mr. Osborne
back as “Y” Secretary, Our thanks
too to Dr. Pritchett for his help.
Use’ both of these men, they want
to be used. Make the “Y” your
campus home. That’s what it is
here for. Remember that big word
in the Y.M.C.A., the one that be-
gins with a C. Our “Y” President
put it well when he said that the
“Y” is«here to help you to “Serve
Your Christ With Gladness.”

.

“FIFTH”
COLUMN
HINTS

Here we are, off on another rip-
roaring summer session, and the
first issue of another rip-roaring
Davidsonian (we hope). But what
good would there be in having a
college newspaper without a gossip
column? (Don’t answer that, L[
have to do something to stay on
the staff,) So no matter what you
think, here goes:

Last week was’ definitely “rush
week” at ole D. C Not only for
the new boys who were being rush-
ed, but for the fraternity men who
were rushing around getting dates,
planning parties, etc. Actually tho- —
ugh, rushing was carried on in a
particularly gentle this
Each fraternity member

manner
summer :
was carefully instructed “to say
“Excuse me” to each freshmen be-

fore he hit him with the desk lamp

“and dragged him down to be pledged

up. Then came the day of silence;
the bids “had been mailed and at
two P. M. the brothers waited in
their respective houses with baited
breath (and traps). It was a
hot sultry afternoon, and the still-
ness was broken only by the dull
murmurings of two freshmen stand- _
ing in the middle of fraternity
court. It seemed that they had
not yet made up their minds as to
which fraternity they wished to
join. Various brothers were mak-
ing up their minds and bade a fond
farewell to each other as they walk-
ed, toward different fraternity
houses. Sdddenly the air was shat-
tered by horse cries from the Beta
house, as they came pouring out
to play Indian amengst the trees
of the court. It was their tradi-
tional victory dance, and fortunately
they suffered no casualities, except
for the loss of a few personal pos-

sessions which were recovered
later. :
Aiter the pledging ceremonies,

everyone busted loose in’.all di-
rections; some went home, somé
went to Charlotte, and some rode
out to enjoy the cool (?) waters
of Harris Lake. , ;

With-the arrival of summer school,
we find co-eds tripping around the
campus, and they usually present
a problem. There are always a few
boys who don’t seem to be able to
keep from making entangling al-
liances. For instance, take the case
of one Sonny Blain, who’ has been
feeling very spry lately. It must
be because he has a lot of “Young
Blood’ in his veins, “nes ker pas?”

It is nice to see that the Court
of Control has begun to function
again, and that some of the more
noxious Freshmen have been made
to toe the mark. It seems strange
to see the fresmen playing “sojer”
around. the campus every morning,
but don’t feel bad about it fellows ;
If you have to go to the army,
you'll know how it’s done. Speaking
of the court, it seems that Jedge
Lazenby is going to draw blood if
any more Beta pledges awaken him
every hour on the hour all through
the night. Treat ’em rough, Jedge.

I guess that’s about all for now,
but I'll be back next issue. In the
meantime, if you have any choice
bits of gossip about yourself you
had better keep quiet, or you'll find
your name in print.

P. S. Any mames used in this
article, which correspond to names
of persons either living or in David-
son is purely intentional.
