Page Twe

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Saturday, February 24, 1945

Che PMadidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic yoar
“For a Better Davidson”

UOSP@BLAIN Soci ec EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM ALEXANDER .|.............._- BUSINESS MANAGER

: EDITORIAL STAFF
Hil Masters

Associate Editor
Bruce Fisher Assistant Editor
ATC OROMINB 2c be cb ushs ou cadcc dese eSece. chi ce cesk Feature Editor
Rviter ecsler iesie te sec coi lesask Sports Editor
MUNGOIUER  saautenscccas seudeu ss cacee cuca gales Managing Editor
PAGLVWINBCORO Ubbuc cdbcuscdacbsscauacieucba Managing Editor
REIPNESMIN yrs esses cpusee cddccoeek! doacee Managing Editor
George: GUnn Ac iigiei iscsi cate es Managing Editor
RUE CWHICO ocancmetubensebrucesccneusses Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

RUBE WHICE: Lasusavaleccbonuaceexn Assistant Business Manager
Jack Lazenby Advertising "Manager
Newt Spencer Circulation’ Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL aovenriatia BY

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.

CwmICAso - Boston - LOS ANGELES - SAM Francisco

Congratulations . . .

Congratulations to the Davidson stu-
dent body! The one hundred and sixty-
two men who comprise this war-time stu-
dent body have successfully sowed and
.Teaped in ground hitherto unbroken at
Davidson. We refer, of course, to the
recent set of dances held, not in Charlotte,
but in our own gym! For the first time in
history Davidson saw dances held-on
campus, and all concerned assert that no
other Davidson dances have been as‘en-
joyable as Midwinters of 1945.

Co-operation was the key-word during
this unprecedented week-end. Co-opera-
tion between faculty and students, be-
tween the students themselves, and—well,
.Just everyone. co-operated.

The old gym was unrecognizable when
the Pan-Hellenic Council finished its dec-
orating (with the indispensable aid of

sic, girls, and soft lights made for“ er-
fect week-end. The Pan-Hell figure on
Saturday night was simple and effective,
entirely in keeping with the spirit of the
dances.

President Cunningham stated in Chap-
el that he hoped that the students would
remember that they were making history,
and it seems that they did. Realizing that
they were being observed, and that an
experiment was being made, every stu-
dent did his part to uphold Davidson’s
‘standards of conduct.

The rather rigid restrictions were not
as rigid as had been expected, and it was
really pleasant to see pretty girls strolling
up Dormitory Row. Of course, there
were no all-night functions, but everyone

* was much the better for having had some
sleep. The rooming situation was better
than ever before—the problem was solved
and it was lots of fun.

Another factor which really helped was
“open-house” in fraternity court. The
opportunity for boys and their dates to
circulate through the different houses and
to meet everyone was a profitable one.
It would be an excellent thing if such an
arrangement could be made permanent.

Now that the ice has been broken, we
will see dances more frequently on. the
campus. Already Queens-Davidson Day

our Dormitory Supervisor), and ee us

She DAVIDSONIAN Presents

E ditortals

C features

has been turned into a dance, and the
chances are good .hat informal record
dances will be an established form of re-
creation at Davidson in the not too distant
future. The student body is to be congra-
tulated, but it should not be forgotten
that we have a definite responsibility to

keep all such affairs up to Davidson stan-
dards.

Court of Control...

Much (probably too much) has been

spoken and written about the Court of

Control this year. It seems that people
talk.too much and do too little, where this

- organization is concerned, however.

Court meetings are held frequently,
and penalties and culprits are publicly
announced in Chapel; but one can leave
Chapel and see half a dozen ‘freshmen
walking across the grass to.dinner, or to
the Post Office, blissfully unconcerned
about the regulations so.recently called
to their attention. And how do freshmen
get away with not wearing ribbons—or
with standing up and leaving Chapel be-

fore the upper-classes have even reached ‘

the door—or with spending Saturday in
Charlotte when they were campused on
Friday?

- There is certainly no need of explain-
ing Freshman Regulations here. All the
freshmen have heard them stated, and,
supposedly, have learned them. But there
is certainly some explanation to the fact
that these regulations are completely ig-
nored by about seventy-five per -cent of
the frosh, and partially ignored by nine-
ty-nine per cent!

There are, it seems to us, two explana-
tions. First, the freshmen do not under-
stand, these regulations. This is not the
place to talk about tradition, but any man
who does not realize that those who are
administering these rules have also been
subject to them is overlooking a most
important point...Davidson men made the
rules, lived by them, and profited by them,
and any freshman who is not willing to

accept this fact and conduct himself ac-,

cordingly is not, and never will be a Da-
vidson man. It is a privilege to be here,
and you, Freshman, should be willing and
anxious, to accept the corresponding re-
sponsibility!

The second explanation of comparative
‘uselessness of the regulations is that the

Court itself is not doing its job. Yes, it
holds meetings and puts on a show in Cha-
pel (much to the amusement of the Fresh-
men), but the Freshmen still stand up
in Chapel, walk on the grass, and break
campus. What is the use of having the
power that the Court has if it is not put
to work? It certainly does not scare the
frosh—they have to be shown that this
is a serious thing, and that the Court can
force them to abide by regulations. It is
stated in the constitution that the Court is
backed up by the Student Council, and the
administration. Why not use some of this
latent energy to convince Freshmen that
they are Freshmen. Enough of talk—
LET’S HAVE SOME ACTION!

- vision

Davidson
Utopia

“Murgatroyd, Murgatroyd, it’s
time to get. up.”.Slowly I turned
over on my beauty rest mattress and
gazed at the image of Betty Grable
on the television screen gently im-
parting the usual morning’ greeting.

“Eleven O'clock,” I. mumbled
sleepily, gazing at my platinum wrist
watch, “I have only thirteen more
cuts left in English, so I guess I
had ‘better get up.” I spent several
seconds fumbling for the switches
which turned on the heat, shut the
window, and summoned my | valet
respectively. After ordering him to
draw my bath and lay out my ward-
robe I scrambled out onto my per-
sian carpet. Pushing another but-
ton I lackadaisically watched the
small table bearing my breakfast
slowly rise through the floor, “T
Bone steak again” I hissed. “Always
T Bone steak. Why don’t they give
us something gédod to eat around
here? The way they feed us, you'd
think we were paying for it.’

I grumbled my way ‘through
breakfast and took the_escalator up
to my leather cushioned bubble bath.
After soaking myself thoroughly
and watching intently the story of
“John’s Other Wife” on the tele-
screen, I felt much better.
Finishing my luxurious bath, I turn-
ed on the automatic dryer, and after
a few seconds slipped into my robe
and went down to dress.

I was ready for class a few min-
utes early so I rode around the cam-
pus in my auto-car until time for
the bell. I drove into the class room
just in time—Professor Crimp” had
already arrived and was ready to
administer the knowledge pills to
the waiting students.

I fan into my friend Percival at
the door as I was leaving the class
room, and, as he looked rather de-
jected, I asked him what the trouble
was. “That was the longest five
minutes I ever spent,” he grumbled.
“I thought: the bell would never
ring”. I heartily agreed with Per-
cival, and after bidding him a fond
adieu drove back to the dormitory
to prepare for my Phys. Ed. class.

The coach had promised us a spec-
ial treat for today, but he said that
he would not tell us what it was un-
til we all assembled at the gym. It
was quite a surprise too. He gave
us a markmanship test, and we spent
the entire period throwing darts at
pictures of Varga girls. Otto Papen-
fuss, who placed six darts in a row
between the eyes of one of the Var-
ga pictures, was promptly proclaim-
ed the master marksman of the class
and received a cut in Phys Ed for
the rest of the semester. °

I was rather dejected due to the
fact that I had only managed to
hit my Varga girl with one dart, but
after returning to my air-condition!
ed room and cooling off a little I
felt much better. I lay back on my
bed and lapsed into a reverie over
my wonderful trip to Europe last
week-end. Everything would have
been perfect if I had not had that
trouble with the engine of my Auto-

gyro. Suddenly, I was ‘startled out ©

of my reverie by the realization’that
it was almost time for dinner, so I
hurried down to the boarding house
as fast as my auto sar—woen take
me. The meal was not so good today,
only grade A food, but the“’floor
show was excellent and this made
up for what the dinner lacked.
After dinner, I spent a very. en-
joyable afternoon playing bridge
and spent the evening in one of the
local night clubs. Being tired, I went

‘ to bed early and was lulled to-sleep

by the voice of Hildegarde over the
television screen.

In
Respect
To...

By GUESS WHO

Hello, men of Davidson and all
ships ‘at sea !! Just a few lines to
let you know the things going on at
‘Davidson. You’may regret that you
read this column (if you do) but
nevertheless I tried. First of all, in
respect to last mid-winters dances.
It seems that a couple of dated Betas
were dissatisfied with their own
house, so they journeyed over to the
KA house, An,hour passed and all
was quiet. Then, the door burst
open! Several KAs walked into this
“lovey-dovey” atmosphere. I assure
you folks it was very embarassing
for all concerned, but boys will be
Betas.

In respect to the new Court. of
Control. This writer asked the ques-
tion, “How is it that the judge of
the Court of Control is a lowly
sophomore. Just one step abve a
freshman.” What is the answer?
Ask the Student Council. Also after
a verysstern campusing of several
freshman, his “honor” escorts them
off the campus in a very stately
manner. How about it Wildcats?

Attention!! In respect to the new
regulations on dances prescribed by
the faculty. Several issues ago some
nondescript writer slandered this
movement. Now that the dance is
over this writer as well as others
found that this idea was a good one.
He wishes to apologize. I apologize.

Question of the week, Why does
a particular Kappa Sig allow him-
self to be dragged through ~ the
mire by a certain Queens’ cutie (?)°
Perhaps he is following his name-
sake which is an elephant with long,
flapping ears.

Another question of the week.
Who is the character who is popu-
larly called “Leatherslip”.

Flash!! In respect to the coming
Queens-Davidson day. These: prove
interesting every time for very few,
both boys and girls, know what
they're getting. But it usually ends
up all-right, for you don’t have to
look if you're not inclined. | This
author suggests a Sadie Hawkins
day. Lil’ Abner has them, why
can’t we?

Listen! In respect to the past
class gifts. This reporter’ wonders
why the school doesn’t get together
and do something about its condi-
tion. For instance the lights and
steps in front of the gym are cer-
tainly not looking up to par. It is
a black mark’ on the face -of the
campus. Many other spots are sore-
ly in need of repair. If this is done,
Davidson will have a much more
beautiful campus. WAKE UP.

Since this is war-time, why not
have freshmen on the Student Coun-
cil? It seems to me that there should
be one or two from the freshman
class who are capable of holding
that position. After all a sophomore
is judge of the Court of Cantrol.
{This would be’a wise move during
the present time, because the larger
part of the student body is fresh-
men. Thus, it seems that they should
be taken into consideration more
than normally.

In rspect to the cigarette short-
age. Some have more than others
it is true. Especially one drug store
in particular. Why should the pro-
Prietor keep them hidden (stacks
of them) in the back of the store?
‘This is unpatriotic as well.as being

, against the OPA regulations.

Until next time, dear readers,
fare thee well and don’t do.anything
bad for you might read about it.
