Seturday, October 13, 1945

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Upper Classes
Elect Officers

Alexander Heads Seniors; Mc-
Gehee, Juniors; Roach, Sophs

Fhe three upper classes here on
the hill met last week and organiz-
ed by electing their class officers
for the school year '45-’46,

James P. Alexander, of Charlotte,
N, C., was elected president of the
Senior class. Jim is a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social frater-
ity and has been very active on and
off the campus since his arrival on
the Davidson campus. Jim is a mem-
ber of Omericon Delta Kappa lead-
ership fraternity, served as presi-
dent of the Y.M.C.A., was business
manager of the Davidsonian, served
on the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and on the
Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, was on
the Pan-Hellenic Council and is a
member of several honorary lan-
guage fraternities.

Vernon McGehee was elected
president of the Junior class. Ver-
non-has served on the Y.M.C.A.
cabinet, Y.M.C.A, Board of Control,
and has been very active in the
College Glee Club, having served
as its president. Vernon is a native
of Texas.

A returned veteran, Art Roach,
of Barium ‘Springs elected
president. of the Sophomore class.
Art won quite a name-for himself
in football circles when he was here
before by brilliant tailback playing.
He is at present serving as an as-
sistant coach. Art married Miss
Ethyl Goodnight of Mooresville,
and they are at present residing
in the community.

YMCA Cabinet
Holds Retreat

Make Extensive Plans For The
Current Year

On Saturday and Sunday, Sep-
tember 29th and 30th, the officers
and Cabinet of the Y.M.C.A. held
their annual retreat at Assembly
Inn, Montreat, N. C, This conference,
held early in the fall term of each
year, has as its purpose-the-unani-
mity of each Cabinet member and
the work of his départment into one
working orgahizatién and the plan-
aing in detail of that work for the
coming year.

This highly successful and inspira-
tional retreat was planned and car-
ried out by members of the Cabinet
under the leadership of Bill Mc-
Lean, “Y” president, and Newt
Spencer, general secretary of the
work of the College Y.M.C.A.
Eleven men made the trip Saturday
morning in—College cars and re-
turned in time for Vespers the fol-
lowing evening.

Assembly Inn served as the cen-
ter of all activities which began
with a conference Saturday after-
noon. Panel discussions of the work
of each department began at this
meeting and were continued in the
evening meeting which adjourned
at midnight, This detailed planning
was concluded in the Sunday morn-
ing session and in the final meeting
after dinner the minutes of all pro-
ceedings and plans laid were read
by Jim Alexander, secretary, and
corrected and approved by the Cab-
inet. The conference was adjourned
by President McLean, who had
very capably presided at all the
meetings.

The Cabinet attended the Sunday
morning church service in ‘a body,
but the spiritual highlight of the
whole retreat came earlier that
morning to those who turned out
before six and climbed to Point
Lookout, high above Montreat, and
watched the sun rise.

The value of this short period
of intensive and inspired planning
has already been realized, and it
will continue to be evidenced in
the varied and influential work of
the Y.M.C.A. throughout the com-
ing year.

was

With the opening of the 109th year at Davidson College, new officials are directing student organizations. Top-flight undergrate officers
pictured above are, left to right: top row; James P. Alexander, Charlotte, president of the senior class and secretary of the Y.M,C.A.; J. T.
Bagley, Fayetteville, Tenn., treasurer, Y.M.C.A.; Ed. S. Golden, Neptune Beach, Fla., Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and managing editor Davidsonian,
campus newspaper; Joe E. Martin, Lenanon, Tenn., Freshman advisor and representative of senior class on the Student Council; James A. Nisbet,

Sanford, Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and managing editor, Davidsonian;

Student Council.

Ky., second vice-president

R. R. W. Winters, Palm Beach, Fla., representative of senior class on the
Center row: H. G. Wyatt, Winston-Salem, Y.M.C.A. Cabinet;
Student Council and feature editor, Davidsonian; George W. Gunn, L ouisville,

J. Frank Barr, Jr., Concord, junior class representative on

of Y.M.C.A.; Ward W. Lasley,

Burlington, second vice-president of student body; John W. McAlister, Jr., Greensboro, secretary, Pan-Hellenic Council and Judge, Court of

Control; Vernon B. McGehee,

Palacios,

Texas,

first vice-president, Y.M.C.A. and president of Junior class, Bottom row;

Harry H.

McLean, Washington, N. C., Y.M.C.A, Cabinet and assistant editor, Davidsonian; W. S. McLean, Lenoir, president. Y.M.C.A.; R. W. Smith,
Jr., Bluefield W. Va., treasurer, Y.M.C.A.; Robert R. Smoak, Wilkesboro, treasurer, Pan-Hellenic Council and assistant Business manager,
Davidson; Joe T. Stukes, Manning, S. C., first vice-president student body and assistant editor Davidsonian; and L. G. Turner, Jr., Statesville,
junior class representative, Student Council and managing editor, Davidsonian. Leading student officers not pictured are: William B. Rogers,

El Dorado, Ark., president

of the stud

Lincolnton, editor-in-chief, Davidsonian; Dexter H. Lazenby, Jr., Statesville, business manager, Davidsonian;

Atlanta, secretary and treasurer, student body.

t body; William C. Pollard, Farmville, N. C., president, Pan-Hellenic Council; Mel B. Winstead, Jr.,

and Robert J. Strickland, Jr.,

Queens-Davidson Day To Be.
Celebrated Saturday Evening

Pollard Heads
Pan Hell Group

McAlister Is Secretary; Neill
Is Treasurer

The Pan-Hellenic Council of Da-
vidson College met last week and
organized for the coming yearby.
electing its officers. Bill Pollard,
of Farmville, was elected president
of the organization for the present
year. Pollard is a member of the
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity,
having entered Davidson in his
sophomore year after being in a
V-12 unit at the University of North
Carolina. This past summer he was
a member of the student council
for the first term.

Dave Neill, representing the Sig-
Phi
elected to the very responsible posi-

ma Epsilon fraternity, was

tion as treasurer of the organization.
John McAlister, of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternity, was chosen as
secretary of the body. Other mem-
bers of the council for this year are:
Warren Higginbottom of the Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity; Ed Golden
of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity ;
Jack Lazenby of the Pi Kappa Al-
pha fraternity; Earl Mahone of the
Kappa Alpha fraternity; and John
Wall of the Kappa Sigma frater-
nity.

At present the Council has not set
an exact date as to when our Home-
coming Dance will be. However, all
indications point to the fact that
it will probably be November 17.

Davis Chosen As
TopCheerLeader

Five Assistant Cheerleaders
Announced

In the recent elections, Houston
“Hank” Davis was chosen to serve
.as head cheerleader for the "45-'46
school.year.. Davis, a, sophomore
from Spartanburg, S: C, was one
of Davidson's cheerleaders last year
He is also a member of the David-
son Glee Club. ‘

The position of head cheerleader
has..been substituted for the posi-
tion known as varsity cheerleader.
The position of varsity cheerleader
has been abandoned until the athle-
tic teams return to a varsity sche-
dule. In normal times, this position
was held by a senior. Due to the
reduced size of the senior class,
any upperclassman is eligible for
the new position of head cheer-
leader.

Runner-up for the position “was
jFrank Barr, Jr., of Concord, N. C.
Barr is a member of the junior
class. {

A probable list of assistant cheer
leaders has been announced. They
are: Frank Barr, Jr., Jimmy Cowan,
Meredith Davison, Bill Fesperman,
and Herb Miller. They are already
in action, and from what we saw at
the Appalachian game, we predict
a good cheering section. Naturally,
they will need the help of every
member of the student body in order
to perform to perfection our ole
Wildcat yells as they should be.

Approximately Two Hundred
Queens Girls To Be Here

A social
looked forward to with much en-

event that is always

(husiam is the Queens-Davidson
Day. It is a Davidson tradition to
entertain the Queens girls on a
special day designated as Q-D Day.

About two hundred Queens girls
will leave Charlotte this afternoon
by Special bus for Davidson. They
will arrive here in Davidson about
1:30 P.M. Upon arrival, the girls
will go to the Y.M.C.A., where ar-
rangements have been made for the
boys to get their dates.

Numerous entertainment features
have been arranged for the entire
afternoon and evening. At 2:30 P.
M. the entire group will be guests
at the Davidson-Darlington football
game on Richardson Field. From
4:30 until 6 P. M., Phi Mu Alpha
Musical Fraternity will have open
house in Phi Hall, for those who
wish to listen to various recordings.

The various boarding houses will
have supper at 6.30 P. M. for all the
guests. After supper until 8 P. M.,
the Social Fraternities will have
open house for all the students. At
8 P. M. the Student Government
will sponser an informal record
dance in the College:'Gym. The girls
will remain on the campus until a-
bout 11.30 P. M., after which they
will return to Queens by special
bus.

Buy Bonds!

Other Student
Officers Chosen

‘Lasley Is 2nd Vice-President;
Strickland, Sec.-Treas.

Ward Lasley, of Burlington, N. C.
and a member of the junior class,
has been elected second vice-presi-
dent of the Davidson College’ Stu-
dent body.

Lasley is a member of Beta Theta
Pi, social fraternity; Assistant Busi-
ness Manager of the “Davidsonian;”
a member of the football and base-
ball teams. Lasley, also, was a mem-
ber of the student council this past
summer,

Bob Strickland, of Atlanta, Ga.,
and a member of the sophomore
class, was elected Secretary-Treasur-
er of the Student Body, in the recent
elections. Strickland is a member
of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, and a of the
football team.

member

ARTIST SERIES
(Continued from Page 1)
of higher education and with the
student's point of view, Mr. Wein-
rich is able to tie his art in with
many different subjects in the col-
lege curriculum.

According to Mr, Pfohl, the other
numbers in the current series will
feature equally prominent musicians.
Samuel Dushkin, violinist, will ap-
pear on November 12, and Mark
Harrell, famous Metropolitan bari-
tone, on February 4. Sari Biro, an-
other great pianist, will be heard
during the latter part of February,
the exact date yet to be dettrmined.

In commenting on the series, Di-
rector Pfohl stqted that he considers
it to be most outstanding, both
musically and educationally, He has
expressed the hope that a large.
number of out-of-town people will
again join with the college and com-
munity in patronizing the new
series, Season tickets will sell for
$3.00 with single concert admissions
somewhat higher.
