HOLIDAY
TOMORROW

Che Pabvidsonian

ALENDA LUX UB)

ORTA LIBERTAS

WELCOME
ALUMNI

Volume XXXV

DAVIDSON. COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. Cc. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1946

Homecomin

Festivities To Begin Tonight

Beaver Club Gives

Bids To

Honorary Underclass Frat
Takes Eleven

On Thursday, October 24, David-
son’s Beaver Club held its annual
tap day, bidding new men from the
Sophomore and Junior classes. The
organization, an honorary frater-
nity for underclassmen, judges pro-
spective candidates for membership
on leadership, scholarship, and ath-
letic ability. New members from
the Junior class include Dave Blev-
ins, Jerry Robinson, Bill Robert-
son, Charlie Patterson, and Sam
Tate. Sophomores receiving bids
were Buddy Cheek, Mike Williams,
Doug Rice, Carl Pahl, Henry Neis-
ler, Bob Walker, Jack Gray, Bill
Brownson, J. D. Ashmore, and
Gene Bingham.

In past years, membership in the
Beaver Club has been restricted to
twenty, ten men coming from the
Sophomore class each year, and the
ten rising Seniors retiring. This
year, with the increase in student
body, the total authorized member-
ship has been rai

Activities of tl
tending an invitat
college to visit the
pus each year.
social field, they
portant role in the athletic life of
the campus, acting as host to pro-
spective Wildcat athletes. The old
Beavers include Bobby Phillips,
Bill Hodgin, Hugh Hill, Dave Neill,
Don Bryant, Bob Strickland, Hay-
wood Brinegar, Hugh McArn, and
Ed Manget.

New Men

Start Made On
New Magazine

Seripts ’n Pranks, the revived
college magazine, will have its first
edition this year in December, ap-
proximately one week before the
Christmas vacation. Successive is-
sues will appear in February, April,
and May of next year. Copies for
the students have been paid for by
the student activity fee but a com-
plete year’s subscription to be sent
home can be had for one dollar. A
large number of students have al-
ready purchased these send-home
subscriptions.

As announced in the last issue
of the Davidsonian, the editorial
staff will be headed by Doug Swink.
The managing editors are Frank
Barr, George Gunn, Ralph Alexan-
der, Jimmy Gribben, Bobby Phil-
lips, Buck Troutman. In charge
of, the Art Department is Orin
Whitaker.

Jim Love is the business man-
ager, and the business staff will

consist of Lenoir EID Morris

not urging members and pledges
to go out for extra curricular ac-
tivities. Only four freshmen have
at this date come out for Scripts
’n Pranks. Many more contributors
are needed and are urged to use
Scripts ’n Pranks, as well as the
term paper, as an outlet for their

literary genius.

Dr. Redhead Holds
Y. M.C. A. Services

Greensboro Preacher Gives
Inspiring Talks
Dr. John A. Redhead, pastor of

the First Presbyterian Church,
Greensboro, N. C., conducted the Y.
M. C. A. Fall Services on October
29, 30, 31 in Chambers Auditorium.
These services held twice daily were
very helpful and thought-giving.
On Tuesday, Dr. Redhead spoke on
the topics of “What Is the Use of
Religion Anyway?” and “On Mak-
ing God Real,” in his morning and
evening sermons respectively. Wed-
nesday morning’s service was en-
titled “God in History,” whereas
that of the evening was “On Being
a Real Optimist.” For the Thurs-
day program, he spoke on “The
Kingdom of God Is At Hand” and
“Fairest Lord Jesus.”

Born Centreville, Miss., Dr.
Redhead attended and graduated
from Southwestern College in 1926.
His graduate work was taken at
Union Theological Seminary of
Richmond where he was a “Hoge
Fellow” and received the degrees
of B. D. and Th. M. While i
lege, he earned his letter in
ball and basketball and vy
member of Kappa Sigma. A
ber of the Rotar y Club, he i
a great golf enthusiast.

Davidson is not a new acquaint-
ance of Dr. Redhead, for he was
a trustee of the college for five
years. In 1937 he was awarded
the degree of Doctor of Divinity by
>the college.

His ministering career began
with the Farmville Presbyterian
church of Farmville, Va., where
he was pastor from 1930 to 1933.
The years from 1933 to 1937 saw
him as pastor of the First Presby-

in

SPEAKER

A poll of the nation’s campuses,
taken in the spring of 1946, shows
that college studénts prefer the
type of advertising used by Ches-

terfields. Chesterfield ads are the
collegiate favorite, in the words
of college men, because of- their

direct copy and layout \and their
pleasant style.

In‘line with this tradition, Ches-
terfield is returning this year with
advertising built expressly on the

terian church of Tampa, Fla. Char-

(Continuel on Page 5)

AMID
S WPoPpul dr}:

Officers Tapped
By Military Frat

Scabbard and Blade Chooses
Eleven Members
By Dave Richardson

FEATURED

Amassing a display. of military
splendor unequalled on the David-
son campus since the Enlisted Re-
serve Corps saved countless num-
bers of students from the draft in
1943, the R. O. T. C. battalion held
its first parade of the year Tues-
day as part of the ceremony of
tapping new members for Scabbard
and Blade, honorary military fra-
ternity.

New Members

Cited for outstanding leadership
and valor in all fields of R. O. T.
C. work seven cadet ‘officers of
the battalion were tapped by Cadet
Major Carl Pahl in the climax of
an impressive ceremony which em-
phasized the efficient dignity of
___jmilitary service. They included
| Cadet Captain J. M. Bailey, Jr.;

Boys Welcome <i" First Lieutenant John

Pat O’Corner

Adams; Cadet First Lieutenant
{Arthur D. Plowden; Cadet First
S | B zieutenant John Yarborough;

a em eauties tadet First Lieutenant E, T, Ed-
wards; Cadet First Lieutenant O.
F. Dobson; and Cadet Second Lieu-
tenant Joe Bell. The tapping cere-

By Bernard Oliver

he RA
lads. It may be, of course, that
he is prejudiced, and it is unde-
niable that his enthusiasm springs
very largely from the fact that he
was exceptionally’?tueky, in the
“blind date” shufflé.. ‘However, he
has talked with a» large\por ;
tion of the student! ‘body, jpovtali

in particular, and h
opinion general.
simply lovely!
group in every
ing has served
bond that exis
At least we hope i€

The Y. M. C.
Club, who jointly,
in the pies, feel the
go to Miss Fran
of the Salem Y.
helpers, who ma
They
express apprecia
chaperones for thie

tapped at the same time. They in-
cluded Lt. Col. William P. Grace,
Jr., professor of. military science
and tactics; Lt. Col. O. C. Martin,
Jr.; Major C. C. Acher; and Cap-
tain HH. Kennedy.

Noy eay, Old Members i
Officiating in the initiation cere.
mony and in command of the review
wére Cadet Major Pahl; Cadet Cap-
tains Quentin Cooper}: Cadet Cap-
tain’ Roddy (L.- Smith; CadetCap-
_ | taim « Bevt Anderton; and. Cadet:
Captain R, O. Freeman, .
»| ‘Honorary members of Seabbard
aver} and Blade who took part in eview-
‘fing’ the troops and in welcoming
the newly initiated officers into,the
ranks of Davidson's military im~
€Ft mortals included Dr. John Bi. Cun-
ningham, president of the collego;.
Dr. J. W. MacConnell, # tajor. int
World. War I; Professor i, K.

possible,

SWING MAESTRO

Billy Butterfield

College Declares
_Saturda

ind pnce s
f oe: formal
ii be held i

Friday night, will s

The informal dance
night will) last fro
twelve—and will be

terfield and his orche
for both dawces.
Another activity
ceived the interest o
and the community i
the -decoratinc of t

Asiny Activities
Spark Weekend

This week is to see ths long
he Charlotte armory

r
m. and will last eh

Genter of the Armory.

which

Some

Army

Men

Holiday on
y

et isa majar]

Like

e
Life
On:R.0.T.C. Staffedave
: Traveled) Extensively

_ A small search into thd lives of
part.of the R. O. T. C. staff brought

dance, whi

Acher, Mast. Set.
Ist Set. Chas. D.

t at nine p.
one o'clock.
of Saturday
m_ eight till
in the Youth
Billy But-
stra will play

mond D. Zerby.
careers,
traveled
has re=
f the campus
n the past is
he fraternity

at

varied.

extensively

seas during the war.

most of these

t

‘forth some very interesting infor-
mations concerning Major G. C.
John D, Bowles,

Webster,

Blanton Burton, and Ist Sgt.

Ist Set.
Ray-

During their army

men have

hroughout

the United States and served over-
Their
Davidsonare—fhumerous

jobs
and

a

houses. - The last time the cup, Major C. C. Acher, born in Fort
which : goes 1p the peaternity with Dodge, Towa, received his education
acta: iat wh MG : from Missouri Military Academy
? Ces ’ whe t AY AS © *e Inie wet . 1
won by the, Pi Kappa Alpha fra- and Towa University. For a while
ternity, The judging of the houses before the war he worked with
|will take place on Saturday which | Swift .& Company in Sioux City
or pees ee an official holi previous to entering the Army on|
day by, the executive committee. active duty in November, 1940,
This week end the alumni will Dari hi ,
alee ntebhe officially here on the | uring his Army career, he served |

Dances In
Charlotte

Pretty “Pat” Connor Will Be
Vocalist With Butterfield
Orchestra

“What’s New?” is not only Billy
Butterfield’s theme song but he is
Billy
Butterfield is the young master of
the his

horn straight to the top and, as

also what is news today.

trumpet who has blown
a result, in all trade paper polls
held in the country, Billy has fin-
ished among the top five on trum-
pet.

The “Butterfield is
something that is now at its peak,
polished through—years~of “being
featured on commercial radio coast

treatment”

to coast and with such top ranking
bands as Artie Shaw, Bob Crosby,
Benny Goodman, Harry James
The

means

and
“Butterfield
. the
means,

many others.
treatment”
“Butterfield

the

melody;
treatment”
“Butterfield treat-

listenability (and
danceability—musie that is palata-
ble both to those who want to
{ dance | @8 Well as to those who wish
to sit ff ‘out. The “Butterfield
treatment”, means that

rhythm;

ment” means

music

‘Tereates the mood that the song-

writer intended and as such has
the greatest appeal to diversified
tastes.

Born in Middletown, Ohio, Billy
was. interested in music as a child
and when he atténded high school
in Cincinnati he was already play-
ing with local bands. He started

studying to be a doctor and al-

ready had two years of pre-med
in college at Lexington,

he

Kentucky,

when he found that was more

interested in playing for the col-
lege bands and “jamming” after
élasses than he was-in a career in
medicine, And, in addition, there
was, a girl, Margaret, who -was
singing with the band and he
married her, They now have two
boy Michael and, Patrick, who,

Pleagtes Mr Pb: Jacksan, ener campus-for-the first-time in-three | With-the- 6th, 85th, and 1o3rd> nz | #thoweh only -six-and-four vespeet-
which they did nok ‘ their pret Mtiensurer; Mr. ¥. W. Hehguve! 4, “Continnel on Page 6) |fantry divisions. Overseas’ duty |ively, #lready want to be young,
ence too strong i te y and they registrar; Mr. Normatt’: Shaper 4 eae saw him with the 103rd Major young men with horns.
would like to trys <2 anol director of athletics; and Dr. W, 0 Acher is an instructo® i 2h ieee i i
them for numer Puckéttprofersox of.hiplog, jFrats Rer n ew d an i bruc oF 6 sop 10- Commensurate with Billy’s sing-
failures in the sey + uegday’s ceremony ae the Best |” more R, O. T. C. and supervisor jing with Capitol Records, he cut
Are Ane ree i (ae, fen two dniual Seabb nid Blade | | a of B Company. jeizht sides and his Capitol record
Riana Aart pit ie Ag day sy with only gia J - S Fi | Gg h t Serving with the airborne infan- |album of Gershwin is enormously
boarding house a é 5 Ss being selected a. - : try in France and Germany was} popular and has been circulted
talion, The be scholastic competition : ae :
Gam house a ha pla Ha the: late Mried- this year after a Mast. Sgt: Bowles. This past April| throughout the cou
regular dinner h ora H Ir years, during whic! » {he came to Davidson as an assist Ih addition, for udents and
ing that they we ificaljons, es were too small t Hes nt instruetor, Army liféhas been | addic ef jazz, eutures a
EEA pepteuy : y, tftd ha program, In pr | “ofe ae te i; 7 ; | : Nah a
one which the . ’ : ne Se Lees ley profession for-some ten years, mall band within 1 which is
BOOK With rare cial Feri Hevinal| fnouliey Sasistant Mstuuctoy, Bt (headed yp by top smiangen seul
Despite the of general average. Thi Zerby, is a new arrival to the staff | Stegmeyér, This group will fea-
ures, which’ tho} +winner coud keep this cup for a he first came to ridson ture a type of music called “Salon
knowledge wit 2 order to secure the | October 17, 1946, frommihe sixth) Jazz” and will enable the individ-
lads were heard |to’say’that i ‘keeps,”” a fraternity | army headquarters in’ Ft. Lewis, | ual performers tocshow theirartis:
(Continuel} on Page 96) three times ina nOM hington, ‘During his cleven|try and ve rsatility in executing
| A, eee a ge s ie the-army, he has seen for pure jazz and difficult sequences
° pea S : eee WAS a Lee onor tO) cign duty in the Philippines from] i 5
ae Ta ship of the nation’s military in the} he the holder of the cup.~ Ji is afirch 1936 to—June ees and in {ef mu ical. virtuosity with the
event of extreme, emergency andj hoped that with SEALOCUIMOE being | the countries of Panama and Ecua-| know, how” and ease of “impec-
to d rit de corps in local| greatly e ear, that} do. from December, p40 to ( icable stylists.
, ts. Since s thet time }each and ¢ them wills; 1948. His reciMiting dames | :
hd r | encourage thers and mee ae meine | Wat Here is a young man who is a
i Sig’ he pledges to a gher degree | og es, Jreal credit to the band world. His
’, TCgumedaats her, é. efficiency ir scholastic | fia sere mi is unusual and_his future
Pe part on vidson esta ndeavors. Sia
last oie. October 21, by initiat-|the lead in maintaining the excel-| The averages made by the nel Bee dy ine instructor ay “Fort David- [Unlimited
ing eight new members. ° Professor |lent rating enjoyed by the David-| social fraternities. during the jast | 5°" falls to Set. Burton, who has |
Q. Bault, Dr. J, C. Pietenpol,}son unit since its founding. year of competition in f41-42 are been with the college for sere 21 | the third army area, and was sta-
P. Walker, C. .B. Walker, T, M. Requirements for membership | as follows: \eieces Army seeguas Mas Tae ose tioned at Fort Bragg and Greens-
Guy, M. H. McGlamery, W. H.j}are based on character, leadership, | Beta Theta Pi 1,587.| that time become a. little vague. orboP ai aevenrecnnn
Bobbitt, and Martin Waters were | efficiency, and knowledge of mili-} Kappa Sigma , : . 1.537) Administrative duties are taken pewter : a i Bs Sea eeiae
received into this society for the |tary science and tactics. Sigma Phi Epsilon. .......... 1.51: 34 are of by Sgt. Webster of Atlanta, The R. O, TC. unit at eyideon
betterment of scientific knowledge Cadet Major Pahl indicated that} phi Delta Theta —.. =1.491 | who/ has been here eleven months.’| is divided into -three companies
following a banquet at the Y. M.Jat the tap day held in the spring} Phi Gamma Delta .. 1.48 82 | In his six years of army life, he | composed of a cadet company com-
C. A. After the initiation Profes-|the nucleus of next year’s chapter | Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.390 | was with the air forces in Italy for} mander, a cadet first lieutenant,
sor Fulcher gave an impressive |will be formed, and that the local} Kappa Alpha .... ky] 37 fifteen months during. the Waly} and two platoon leaders. This year
talk on the construction of the|company pwill continue plans for|Pi Kappa Phi -.. . 1.345 | has been on extensive recruiting
atomic bomb. the winter as previously announced. } Pi Kappa Alpha 214 | duty with the recruiting service in (Continuel on ‘Page 6)

