Although the grid-

| a
iron season was over
and done with more BASKETBALL STARTS
than a week ago, we
want to take—this op- fi
portunity to review
one of the best sea- |
sons in Davidson iSiike Pour THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 5, 1947
history. This years | Page Four
eleven will gé i ;
with the immortals | INTRAMURAL FOOTBALL CHAMPS Cagemen Whip
Davidson's hall | /
fame. It as “a \
amg Kannapolis Y
as a team Dp
the basis: « | :
individual s Whi 7-48 edition of the Wald-
ing ability though joat basketbi roar
practicall | S0-31 C
of the zu a oy here brida
been a tie season with a bang
other ve “ ears has been one 0! a fast, scrappy quintet with a par-
teams bul id su snes as Teeney Laferty, Davey” | ticular aversion to hitting the ba
Sp ncer. 4 ] Art Rou i ei vy For once the Wildes ket, and all 18 members of the
squad has bet e that Wasstrettg-at every position i Wildeat squad combined to give
depth to sp: them a drubbing
It was not a Jens EH st but one that could usually Buddy Cheék was hero of the oc-
muster just evough sirens ire e best of their opponents casion, sinking four field goals and
With o e]} ! Mgnt Have five out oi six free throws for a
bee: a, it ay sts ! and Mé total of 14 points. Whit Cobb and
and State, ifey music he pAeall Bill Hodgin were ranners-up with
thought to have nine points each and Williams and
The seas record Was F . at et cars, | tverson” both—racked eight.
loss to. Washington F s expected, é F n Other opponents scheduled tor
day we mig! ave t There have be¢ ape the coming week are the McCrary
ings Host-Seas ‘ uo. We ( k ser t ne Eagles, a Winston-Salem semi-pro
SGT Ei AOE Ran a euttit, Clemson and Washington
to State am M ‘ and, Lee. We meet the Eagles, who
is nothing e ashe Ss! dropped one to State by a 77-53
therm. Watt DO ay ontere we stood score earlier in the week, Saturday
‘a the list of cuferenes eonne ahead ot Wake . night in Winston, After a trip te
Eoaes| : 1 Pictured above is the undefeated Kappa Sig intramural squad that won ten straight to cop the intramural crown. In the line are: : lenison Tuesday, the cagers meet
Fie OAR NEN Rr tO eee regal] (left to right) Jones, Covington, Bingham, McFadyen end Torrence. The quintet of backs are Faw, Wilcox, Edwards, Pearson and Keesler. the Generals from Lexington atthe
The big Red ar ine should be especially praised Al] ent) - . Charlotte Armory Friday night.
Stolen (Ne SPORieNt OMA better wNAN | Guesencms monies eee oi 2 Added Strength
average baekt spirit and fight, cee are hard to M ; : mn | A R E i GRAPPLERS MEET With the footbali season over,
beat on any } i lub. Suck umes as Mapes, Carnegie, anagers IC C the addition of last season's regu-
Boyd. Chandler, Rhodes. Richards orn, Sharpe. wid Cheek | u WINSTON Y THERE lars, Huddy. Cheek, Mike Wilaine
will long bé remembered in Davidson annals To say nothing | and Bill Iverson, not to mention
of their offensive might, the big line’s work agamst heaviel Frat All-Srars K , WJ S NEWSPA Coach Charlie Parker's wrestling | freshnian Dave Poole, puts added
Opponents bas been a lighlight yf Southern Conference play. | | : team Is ish off to a slow start} yipor into the ‘Cat lineup, After
Carl Eborn, 19-year-old sophomore Norfolk, was 027 fat a9 pea By CHERRY STRIBLING jHe was a brother in the Kappa |*° the initial meet, originally |a week’s practice Buddy atte Mike
singled ot-ter—-pawise by Coaches Heatie Feathers and Rube tae = ie | “Imroducing” Jolin acy Me-| Alpha, Order (soc ial traternity) and | planned for Saturday Tiel was | will scarcely have had a chance to
McCray who pushed hin Ai-Conterence. He made All- ; he - sche ta ane saitaulesnorts “pubs | Sign a Upsilon (literary fraternity jindetinitely postponed 2 Phe meet} pet used to the radically changed
State and was next to All-American Al DeRowatis tor All ; seityodirector at Davidson: College iso. while at Davidson, he we [scheduled for W inston Y was to be | tempo of basketball.
Conference. % was in on practically every play and ‘Ss carsé Co ; <nown to everybody or Jelected a member of Omicron Del- pees M idhic Davidson Syme Aste From early indications the start-
Wlocking assftiment done until he bad taken Sig's polled the most vote lace,” he is the man ta Nappa, national leadership, tra- MY two days of practice ing lineup may well be Cheek, Wil-
Ses of 4 Right beh he news of the sports teams of | (Continued on Page Five) Coach Parker declined tg comment | jigs, Cobb, Bingham and Ash-
tieid. the Terrible Taye were Mack Erwin and ere’ Gene Bingh: alsc Nat | Davidson on the headlines of news- | - ———— ——————— ae (se CHCRG possibilities, but said more. Mills, Manor, Brinegar Hod-
Jim Sittord who vied with each other for individual scoring js ‘ d Billy rd, afpapers ailwover the South, Under ; eats oa aready looks better | gin Hopper and Poole are likely
honors. Senior Buck Williams gave a good account of hime [K. At scatback with eight. The vot- | his guidme hand the brilliant record Prof Behrman Wins than it ever did last season feeerioranilan, ale
selt and proved invaluable to the Cats as a_placement arust. fing was close at, several: positions, of the Waldcat football team this 2 Although Coach Parker, who Four Veterans Gone :
Kreshman Day ¢ Poole was the only neopliyte to crash the ‘|thus accounting for the fact that | fall has been given due credit T tk Sh i goublee as football EEC has only i eer er aiautly
line-up and lox ked especially good as a line backer | Harry Brown, hard-charging 1), N.| Lacy is coming to be known as one UW. ey 00 worked out with the boys fory a Wi clea icc Hewacca nAW eC ReHENTET Ot
Burt Anderton, who improved at tailback steadily as the |guard, and the S$. A. E. Bob Me- jof the better colices publicity di- aes. pera Ru week, last year’s AL have been tae vente veteran: arts toes st
season progressed, liad one of the best completion averages Of | Gehee ted tor the myn guard spot, | rectors in the South yea aturday afternoon, Novem drilling the neophytes and. pounding Ed White, Ge ; .
| H bér 22, 24 members of the David-}thém into shape. Experienced grap- |.” nite, George Peters, Pat Wil-

the nation, and became the hero of the Citadel and Furman
games. His fifty-yard runback of a recovered fiimmble in the
Furman game was a beautiful climax to a successtul season.

Searcely a week after the Furman game, the basketball
team opens its season against Kannapolis “Y" tonight in the
telephone booth at the rear of Chambers. The cage premier will
show a depleted strength in the basketeer’s lineup as cotw-
pared with last year, but it should also bring out wealth of new
material which Coach Sheppard has to work with.

Veterans Cheek, Cobb, Williams and Ashmore will be miss-
ing their erstwhile mates who graduated last year and Mal
Earp who remained with Durham as a protessional pitcher.
Louie Bingham. Dick Mills and Bill Hodgin all look like likely
prospects tor the fifth slot on the quintet, though Mills will
probably be held as a substitute for the lanky Cheek at center.
Manor. Brinegar, Hopper. Roddy, Poole, Hengeveld, and Jim
Cobb will all see action before the season is done.

Here's hoping that this aggregation will get a better con-
ference deal than their predecessor's did last year. The de-
pendable floor play of Cheek and Mike Williains, along with
the sure-fire, accuracy of Whit Cobb, and Ashmore’s tlashy
lay-ups should make a well rounded offensive for the “Cats.

Wrestling also gets officially under way this week, Coach
Parkeretound his team already rounded into good shape under
the ‘tutelage of Jimmy Jung, 121-pound artist frei the “46
team. Jim went to the fitials in the Southern Conference match
Jast.vear after being undefeated all season. With twenty men
out for the squad, there is competition in all weight classes,
with the exception of the 1386 class and the 155 class Which are
held by such worthies as Bill Fesperman and Stubby Evans
respectively. Both these boys have a lot experience and should
vive a good account of themselves, Other standouts are Ernie
Strictlin and’Bill Moore, both of the unlimited class, and Bull
Alexander who will battle the 175-pounders.

|

THE FINEST IN MEN'S CLOTHING /*

JACK WOOD, Ltd.

102 East Fourth Street Charlotte

® UNIVERSITY STYLE SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS

© DOUBLE-BREASTED LONG ROLL WORSTED
AND FLANNELS.

HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS

BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS

SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH~
: FRENCH CUFFS ~

WOOL AND LISLE HOSE

FORMAL WEAR

.

{ interest to all Davidsonians 1s

while Dave Neill, burly S.V.b. back, | ig 3 . i
| sparkplug, tied for the fourth back- jay afte rnoon in Winston-Salem. SNC MpaIS eat iid rasa a Stubby Evans and Bill Moore have Garolina Staten andi Dukers Ed)
| field position. The first and secona | ‘eople ci interest who w ere present an pawctead sil ibe Re been handling the team while wait- George and Pati: graduated and
ara edi ae oO ahr Ou | arreree pera oes AERA a a — aa a atin Pe rauator: Coach Parka help: Tarp rasireaiiianiiaetey enti tawbitclis
LEC ier Se hey es ale ian tay [0 baa Hane es ae par of | Prize, a 15-pound turkey. Close be- Saturday’s meet was to be one of (Continued on Page Five)
|-E--Ed Hopper, S:P:E. (7) | we as—served--on—the—college-| Hinds was__Dr. f. E. Brown, who |three pre-season matches in prep-
G.—Harry Brown, D.K., (3) nthe past few years. There | carded a 94 which enabled him to aration for the conference season H . 'e
C.—Gene Fingham, Kappa, dik, | we a bride formerly Miss coneecond plate pest one oun which will not bégin until after ammiers Wind Up
8). | dna lyn Adams of Winston- nly one pdint out of eegOne NAS pera) si} b +t i arises 5
RGaoterbo Mecsas Ind: Cs): | “alem. The accident occurred in the Dr. W. G. McGavock who received eae % setio Ere OMe ee With Fum Wi
Ripe areenant (ones, Raton SiG; Carrie Rich-Crapel of Winston's |@ chocolate turkey for his marks- Winston Y a week from Saturday an 1
(6) [First May tit Church at 4:30 on manship. The consolation prize a |on December 13, and one with High | The Davidson sell country team
B—Charlie Pearson, Kappa Sip ye afternoon of November 26th Saeed puppy, went to Profes-| point “Y” on the 16th. finished the current campaign with
wy) al i ce a returns to ne same ah ae sine a ie After iteyouts Wedhelday. after-'| a0 iinpressive win over the harris
Fe asall ird. Kappa Alpha, | toda eep a “ye on Carneie, eaders in the bracket just below P , Si} i : :
t ie i, pa 1 isos me \ Se daet re amature aera Te: Pro pen for Sranting: betine HL Satur- ame iveiiebe cis eevee saan
BR -BancSinith, Bota (6) | tney Mclean is a native of Max-|fessor Berg, 91; Professor Ander- day's, meet, the lineup will be a8} A. a defeat. Blake Bradley ran the
B.—Dave Neill, St ) lton, N.C. where he was born on son, 89, Doctor Reid, 85; Profes- | follows: ; three-mile course in ‘the good time
| B= Whit Goih, Phicibelt [October 7, 1621 He is the son of sor Tinkney, 84; Doctor Daggy, 84; 121-Pound Class—Jimmy Jung. | of 15:08. Montgomery and Grube
| oes Second Team ue an if | Lac x, Me beet is Nit: ne Ne Meaney ‘e 128-Pound Class—Paul Housted. | also ran well in the meet.
--—Hevwooc Rrinegat y7t 220 everly i-rive, Charlotte , oo c ; : 4 °} : +
| ue chad lega Pe nded. Central High! School in| Brown, 82. All te Hee above eget Class—Bill Fesper- pone are the placings and
L.G.—B } Gehee, SAE 2) 'Charlotte and came on trom there | scores were recorded on the basis ae
}—r ae ‘adele ka os | BYR ve i ( Seren 1929, of 100 as perfect firing. 155-Pound Class—Carlyle Charles (1) Bradley (D). 15:08:
| R.G.—Don Lipscomb, Peta (2) Undergraduate Record While the faculty was busy in ip ESS 3 pL
| R.E.—Hugh Hill, S.A.E. (2) While at liavidson, he made am{friendly competition,” their chil- 165-Pound Class—Stubby Evans. (4) Hee (D) 15 -46.
Be rant Barker, Phi Gani (2). enviable record for himself, being dren were cutertained by the movie, 165-Pound Class—Mott Price or (5) McKeither’ (D) 16:13. :
B—Bill Houck, Pi Kappa !. {- member ct the student Counc); “Barnyard Frolics,” held in the Jack Barnard. (6) Revis (F) 16:13.5.
B.—Bill Robertson, }i1 Kappe the Beaver Club, staff of THE]ROTC projection room, Following 175-Pound Class—Bill Alexander. (7) Long (D) 16:14,
2) : : LDAVIDSONIAN, Quips andjthe shoot, members of. the faculty Unlimited Class—Ernie  Strict- (8) Mullinax (F) 16:19.
| Bi Jimmy French, Phi Gam (2).! Cranks, and Scabbard and BiRgE: were served coffee and doughnuts. ‘lin. (12) Morrow (F) 17:10.
| (13) Hatchell (F) 20:06.
. \ . Totals; Davidson 20; Furman 41.
| Introducin’ Sandy Carnegie neal)
{| By DOUG HIX jvear and had hoped io play a little }beat up. After graduating from: high |sergeant in England, France, Bel- Basketball Schedule
j A ag cepa oad ae ‘all. but after two years at|school, Uncle Sam beckoned to the | gium, Holland and Germany. Following ‘la thé Desitson

Davidson has decided that he is. too

there was born to Mrand Mr. Car- |

toothless wonder. He served as a

negie God's gift to toothless women, |
the Army, Davidson football team

and blondes. Your sports staff pre- |

sents to you Sandy Carnegie inj
otir post-season feature for we feel, ;
as you do, that, he represents the |
spirit of the team and the sc ool. |
Sandy, in these two years has given
everything for the football team.
You recall the times he came out

of the game spitting out teeth, or

standing five feet, ten inches, hails
from Norfolk “Busting at the City
Limits,” Virginia, where he began
his football career back in the dark
ages. He played two years at the
blocking back post and one year as
a smashing tackle at Granby High.
He made All-Tidewater his senior

the times he camé trotting off with
his right shoulder hanging limp, or
the times he’ was carried off the
field with an injured knee. Then
the next" time you looked around
he Was back in there opening -@--.
hole through tackle. Surely “he’s a
horse.”

Sandy, weighing 190 paunds,

Sandy is a very versatile man.
At Granby he was vice-president of

College basketball schedule for

st u
the Monogram Club, in the high soul anil
school play, and on the softball Dec. 6—McCrary—there.
team. Dec. » —Clemson—there.

At Davidson he is a member_of Dec, 12—W. & L.—Charlotte.
the “D” Club, S.A.E. social fra-} Dec. 15—Geo.Wash U.—There.
ternity, Scabbard and Blade, and a Dec, 16—Maryland U.—there.
first lieutenant in the R.O.T.C.|* Dec. 17—Quantico Marines—
unit. He has proved himself to be there. ‘
outstanding in the field of drama at| Jan. 3—Hanes—W.Salem.
Davidson,“ winning first prize in} Jan, 6—Duke—W.Salem.
the beauty contest of last year’s| Jan. 9—N.C. State—Charlotte.
*D" Club Follies.’ This year, he Jan. 10—S. C.—There.
was superb in his performance as a| Jan. 12——Wofford—here.
slamming door and.a_ galloping Jan. 24—McCrary—here.
horse in the “D Club Follies Pre- Jan. 12—Wofford—here.
vue.” Jan. 30—U. N. C.—there.

His favorite pastime—and he can| Jan, 31—Duke—there.
usually be seen with—a_ certain Feb, 2—Charleston—here.
blonde at a pep meeting or the local| Feb. 3—Furman—there.
cinema. He likes softball, basket-| Feb. 6—V. M. I.—Charlotte.

ball, baseball and the premises of
Mr. Hengeveld’s office, or rather-a
certain secretary on those premises.

Sandy is not sure of his future
except that he is going to be an
executive, but we may be sure of
one thing—he will always. repre-
sent our spirit of hard fighting and
good sportsmanship.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb,
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb,
Feb.

10—S. C.—Charlotte.
12—Clemson—here.
14—Citadel—here.
17—N: C. State—there.
21—W offord—there.
24—U. N. C.—Charlotte.
26—Furman—here.
27—Citadel—there.
28—Charleston—there.
