Friday, March 5, 1948 —- o oman =

, —— Page Five

Student Aid Examinations Being
Held By Civil Service Commission

IRC Discusses

, PHI GAMMA CELTA

That intangible something that
is the magnetic attraction of ‘Rock
Hill still manages to,.jerk quite a
crew down each week-end, and
this past One was in. only one way
an exception. One brother, who will
for reason of ‘security (because of
readers outside these ivied walls) go
unnamed, went north; and seven of
his hometown cronies and three

ton and Dick Morgan (who dealt
again in Concord with some neat
nurses);- John “Don Juan” Carr
(who is the only person that can
drive to Winston-Salem ‘without
even looking at the road), Harry
“Neon” Brown (who dealt favora-
bly with a noble nurse in Char-
lotte this past., week-end—nursing
is certainly becoming a glamorous
and popular profession!); and Bill

Expected To
Attract Many

Students, graduates, and faculty

Tne United States Civil Service
\ Commission has announced that ap-

plications are being accepted by the
Executive Secretary of the Board

“furriners” went South to take ad-

Harris (who went to Norfolk with

members irom colleges all over the

_wer Mmenibe V . . of U.S. Civil Service Examiners
vantage of his absence! Among Richard this week-end and rotated |Countfy are expected to enroll this Chinese R d for Scientific and Technical Per-
those who crashed the . Winthrop with great finess and confidence); {summer in the University of Hous- e 5 sonnel for filing student aid posi-

Midwinters was Peter “the woman
ain’t. made’? Brown. (l'oor Pete.
will he never fearn?) Hal “make
mine bass” Cashion and bis lanky

cohort Dabney tried a secret lip-|

stick’ remover down on the “Hill.”
Said Cashion: “The invention ‘has
yet to be proved 1 had to
drive.” ~
Lover Sam Maloney, who spent
a prosperous weck-ead away from
the campus brushing up (and
down) on his new-found inspira-
tion, had a good recipe for the
boarding house: Mashed potatoes

Wheliss headed ior their tradition-
al haunts. “These masiers of
frivolity never fail in their search
for happlaess.
’ Asheville‘s bright lights burned
long and bright due to social Chas.
Parker's week-end. escapades.
Curtis Harper went to Lyneh-
burg and Randotph-*facon carry-
ing Appetite Al Guthrie. Both
were joined by Casanava Adanis,
and irom the haggard looks it must
have been verritie, Lee Willingham

presence of the’Mighty Mite” as
they have been elsewhere.
Needless to say the whole of our
little band, or at least those who
have no very pressing engagements,
will be at. Durham this week-end.
However, it” understood that
Brother Matthews found need of
further investigating of his invest-
ment at Staunton, Brother Cun-
ningham didn't need to investigate
—perhaps a bapkruptey count is
his solution.

is

and Bill Clarke (who went home
ostensibly to see his parents, but
who also—according to confidential
Rotator Club files—spent tem-
porate time with Fran in Rocky
Mount, even to the extent of get-
ting his car stuck in the mud. So
ends the official Rotator Club bul-
Jetin,

At this writing insufficient . re-
ports have trickled through the
heavy barrier of censorship and mu-
tual protection from the freedom of
the press (which is sometimes said
to be used too freely) for us to re-

ton International Study Center’.
Dr. Joseph $. Werlin, director of
the centers, said in announcing that
a new center will be opened ‘in
Cuba_this summer _

These study centers, which galso
include Mexico and Guatemala, are
designed to acquaint the students
with the social, cultural and his-
torical aspects of T.atin-American
countries, Doctor Werlin explained.
Field trips, sight-seeing tours, and
recreational -excursions to spots of
historical and cultural interest are
scheduled, he added. A unique. all-

The International Relations Club
met Wednesday night. February 25.
The topic for the evening, was the
Chinese Communist party and the
speaker was
national who pot
first hand.

His talk cleared up.a number ‘of
questions whien have been verpicx-
ing the minds of Americans in re-

cont
the

Chinese Conmimunist
not related to the Russian Marxist
Comniunism, The Chinese Commu-

physies and meteorology.
This student

Pan Lan, a Chinese

his information

search
Ordinance Laboratory.

months. Nr, Fan said) that

party is

lions in the fields of engineering,
-mathematics, metallurgy chemistry,

training program
gives the student the opportunity
of special training at the National
Bureau of Standards, the Naval Re-
Laboratory and the Naval

The salary for student aid posi-
tions ts 2.3040 year Applicants
must have credit equivalent to at
least ‘three years of college in one
of the above subjects. Applications

. A . eve , ind : .

added dis mame to’ the lis\cof the In the ever, ever column we find om nists existed just after the t i | will be accepted irom students who
; S sitid iy wvas . . “ 3S i .|port on the awe-inspiring details of [expense plan enables s : Mated Inst alter the tine of) :
and pea soup. Sam a y Wa5 Tl any in pacsuiteof the ever-altrac- C. K.’' Stokes trying unsuccess Bob Beck’ hn rene ae expense pian enables students to the“great Khans and loag-beiore will have completed the required
cheap, and besides anybody can} iin | oe Dranghon “Queen's Miss fully to sell his stock at par (?) Shriver’ ‘ ip * D save materially in dhe cost. ON ae. These Chinese Com {o'edy by June 30, 1948.

mash potatoes! Alabama.” Wis roommate, pitt | value at Queens. Brother Al Harris hriver’s trip with the debating | travel, housing, meals and tours, the

Tripod Jenkins Jost a brilliant
moral victory the other night when
Poag and Newton combined to de-
sack him. Bobby Barron was also
attacked, but he assures us that
“Beuveen_me, Jenkins, and _ the
Pole’ ’they ain't seen nothin’ yet!”
And they probably won't.

“PHI DELTA THETA

This week-end found "his
multi states making many big deals.

jn

Klein. sat home melancholy, wish-
ing he were in Wiinghanmis place.
Bob. Hubble was frolicking at
Queen's with Wee Willie. Iustful
John Miller was off to a big weck-

-;end with some ravishing brunette

at W. C. What’s wrong, lee?
Roundman Turnipseed, Herb Mil-
Jer and Grady Spities were taken
for quite a ride from ‘ole D. C. to
the Queen City by some wild-wild

went back as usual and ‘fared’? in
the same old way. “Swish” Carter
again returned to Morganton to re-
bait his trap, but met with little
success. He may well be classified
as an experienced outdoors man,
rbut he Certainly doesi’t~know-what
the score is up Reidsville way, It
‘tis indeed tragic.

Sigma welcomes two new pledges
ito «the brotherhood, Dan. Mc

team, Bill Richard’s trip home (on
which joyous. jaunt he took Spen-
cer Murray, Bill Harris, and Hilt
Calhoun), and John Pritchard's
trip with the IRC Club. Neverthe-
less, we finally got a statement out
-of-Ronny Dietrick—che says he is]

director explained.

a

Traveling and living costs for the
Cuba center are $275, excluding
tuition. For the combined Mexico-
Guatemala center, the expense is
$340, excluding tuition. ‘The tuition
Lis based_dn the subjects taken,

now a member of the» Broken
Hearts Club. Gopher Mann has
been pretty ‘secretive, too, but we
received some inside information
that he has some strange malady

These study centers are recor-
nized by the Veterans’ Administra-
‘tion and veterans are exempt from
tuition and receive their usual sub-
sistence allawance, Doctor Werlin

munists are not receiving any aid

trom

liewed, either.

As
their
hack

to a receat pall the Chinese people,
wait-perce aaa: was “Lhey have
had at least urteen years of con: |
tinual warfare and are uow weary
of it,
=—and

Russia as is erroncousiy eq
“Vera's” preference.
for the peopte of China and
opinions, he hak slatistics 10

up his slatements, According

c.5

They are blaining America
rightly so—for prolonging

tthe Executive Secretary, Roard

Age bmits, 18 to 35 years, are
waived for persons entitled. to vet-
Information
about the examination and applica-
tiot’ forms may be obtained at most
first and sevond class postoffices.

Applications must be received by
°
chil Service Examiners for
i Scientific and Technical Personnel
o€ the Uotomac River Naval Com-
mand, Ruilding 37, Naval Research

One of the biggest was that of Bob | women trom 0. H1-O. After reach Keithen, and Gene Regen. Wea that defies diagnosis and for which | caic Fnrollne on arransed their civil sure by sending. arms Laboratory, Washington 20, D. Cs
nee hill Tuesday jing the fair city Roundman visited | sure you that it remains even today . a . sarc. enrolment is arranges Nau : - | not later than March 9, 1948
Patten who left the hill on fuesda) hi ; fs y hile Herb|a. brotherhood despite the cut he requires the periodic attention | through a letter of eligibility trom to the Nationals. WW America hac a ”

A F f Miami sual g6tra . ow Herb Ja, ; S| - : ° ; eae : : .
for the famed sunshine of: Mian. |S msua traction, Wane ‘ oterood’ despite Ce lof a particular nurse in Charlotte. [the local Veterans’ Adatini i not imterferred with her peace com- :
. N Hollow: must have} spent the afternoon with his latest] throat activities of a certain ex- e local Veterans’ Adutinistration | | Cc ' Len re ot .
That Ann olloway a So ends the Slander Sheet for] office of the student Missian, — the ommnunist party | Chiang Kai Shek as president and

some drawing power. Potts Cam-
eron and Ed Montgomery

were)

discovery, R. C.

“Samy te “feed One tate |-——$

pledge at the recent dances.

PHI KAPPA PHI ~~~ _

now, but remember, it doesn't mat-
ter which side of the car-you get

. Full college credit: witl be given
TOR tre courses taken durimg thes

would not have had time to organ-
ivo_ctiiciently and world not be sa

Has premier,

the leader of tne Communist party
tut. Americans would

raising their mileage by another went wheeling in the atraditiona’. Billie Ann, secretary of the J. D. | out on—it stops on both sides! summery studies, Doctor Warn [tangs it is_taday, America is [naturally raise their eyebrows and
jaunt to ‘allahasseer and F.S.U.| Tate style this week-end. He dated | cy), announced today the pledging | - caid.” Klementary and advanced making a mistake. anyway, by ask, “but wouldn't the same thing

Potts is:said to have had a strugele
to keep his pin. Ed’ is well down
the road to matrimony.

Saturday night saw Ernie Spang-
ler, eHenry McGeachy, and Jack

Creators of reasonable drug

prices.

in’ Chapet Hill Duke, Raleigh.
Salem and the poor soul bad to go
stag to a brawi at Wake Yorest.
What a first class limber! The
“Lewd One" tore last yearis wheel,
Ed Sutton, irom: his cadaver at
Chapel Hill. to join him in’ his
gaiety, If only the big blue could

Hartley Hall, a promising wheel-
Hto-be, -dashed-down Macon way to
wive the women a thrill: Rob Wil-
kins and Pat Golden took Gas-
tonia “by storm and left good evi-
dence of an. exuberant two days.

of several new members, John
Coble, Bill Cassels, Bill Cleveland
aud EE. B. Hunter. These new boys
will be initiated after they have
fulfilled the necessary requirements.

Dan Tyler is now frequently
visiting a near-by college for mem-
bers of-the opposite sex (girls, that

wards waited faithfully for a cer-
tain- young lady while she took. the
rap for him, and when she was re-
leased last Sunday, he was right
there to.see her and welcome her
rbackato the outside world.

CAMPUS
CLUB

chicken house with a couple of
chicks... Looking for Easter eggs
so soon, Virgil? Several members
went mountain-climbing last week-
end... “Strick’’ into the foothills
near Wilkesboro, “Centigrade”

Spanish and iGontemporary Civili-
zation of Cuba" will be otfered in
the Cuba center.. Courses dealing
withy the development of Mexicu
and Guatemala will be given tr the
Mexico-tinatemala center, NII
courses are taught in’ English and

Those wishing to enroll in cither
the Cuba or the Mexico-Guatemala
programs should do sO as sdon AS
possible to assure reservations, Stu-

-will leave Wouston June 7 and will

dents enrolling in the Cuba center,

sending arms because the Coniunu
Hist captuce then, so cquickly Usat
a Jarge percentage of the Red Arby
of Clima is using American equip-

ment

China is asvery amportar: aliy-10
the United States ‘because she [ia>
sor the potential of becoming one

power and need for industry in-
istead of agmealtere and when she
turns_te@ this

slovakia?” Pan's answer

taken fromthe Nationals. buffer to keep

which willbe secon

ashe will become a power to he
reckoned
Will be preciofis. .

with and her tnendshin

result which happened in Czecho-
was:
and he went on to say that the
Chejstian element would act as a
the Communists
trom sewing control He said that
there are §,000.000, Christians in
China while the influential »mem-

no

b] ale ‘aay -rantastie adv res Wheels rolling in thé Campus {are open to-all students of all de-]7- - . toe :
Eckerd S wreak wea famtasue adventures Two nights in a row is con-| Ciyh. g partments and levels, both ander ef the greatest nations. of the | bers af boty Nationalist and Com-
might be revealed. Cae soniye >A : , . : . work! Sbe has resources. mau | ‘munis ie: ined- a t
Sidered frequent, Dan, Bud Ed “Geek” Pino was found in some [graduate and graduate, munist parties combined- are no

that large. This makes Christianity
most important in China. And from
[ this, the conclusion is gathered that
what America. should send to China
is ministers of peace with the gos-
pel and not ministers of war with

. arl, s arm ina cast. Sheppard] > Jack Barri . What the Chinese peopie want | arms courage = :
128 N. Tryon 109 S. Tryon Car one arm * ye WT Jack Darringer, Al Hurt and! Remson and Robinson over to Sul-| return in the middle. of hut. - ae Chimese » me an irms to cneourage the much hated

can still operate though partially | piddy Rawson were  gtiests of | |: ‘ cect! isa coalition government - with Feivil war. _

Charlotte,. N. _0. disabled. Even ‘ole misogynist | iprec | itiful, Winthr% 28 irls last lins. Murray’s got “blonde fever The combined Mexico-Guatemala | —-— ~—: ee

oe ‘ob Elenders vavered “up TO] Cea ey mt read ce atctaa,. [ROW «++ Tibby’s letters from Ten- it begin Yui PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!
‘ sauntered up (0 | Sarurdav night at their “‘Midwin- | pessee are few and far between |" will begin uiy 19,and end ’ ; :

Be ey anenirati ae ear i Spe ae ; .
Richménd ‘to “Bet inspiration OT | ers dances.” Thad Parringer took isn't. snowbound Angust-23. ‘bhis will-make it pos

——_————_—$$<—_———

many Kinds. Rig Dill Johnson spent
all his nickels on passionate phone

a ‘short boat ride. with his fiancee.

. Kingsport
now, is it2, Bill and “Bepe’’ were

ble for a.person to atiend both the

. o ce a o . : : ; ;
Ty bd mf “Thealls over Dake. waycand” Tonld’ Lous Pales and Bal ead ven the “cute couple” at Converse. We] Cuba and the Mexico-Guaremala
. alls over eway i ‘ = m" oC ORD. = carn
= aro Ma INC a \ bits for the late to Florence for the week-end with | overhead Dudley Camper expound | coniers, & he wishes, Doctor War
_ |. only manage two-bits for the late] Bult staying in Hartsville most of Don't|"> — —~s :

REGULAR MEALS

show with the vest Of ‘the limbers.

The

radius wasn’t so wide was if>

the time. Al Long—took~-a—long

week-end and spent it in Gonway,

ing on the world status ..
you like things as they are, Dud-

Jin explained.

Further information may be ob-

fast yo phat oo . : : "+! ley? “Happy” tandy is “happy” be- . :

Bree :30 ar ee nance n weén se mules Fro ae eae ee cause they have the new snowball tained by writing to Doctor Werlin

“| Lunch ambling around ye ‘ole hill Satur- | but we hear he was up to his old regulation. He was worried about | at the University of Wonston, 3801

| 11:30-1:30 day with Betty Johnson. Woody |iricks again. Dobson had another his remaining good ear. St. Bernard Street. Houston, Texas.
Dinner was beaming with thate well-known | +Igst? week-end, but we couldn’t
5:30-6:30 Brinegar smile. The K. A.’s seem | sind out the details. Reggie Gowan

Depot St—Davidson, N. C.

2

Bates Cleaners

Press While You Wait»
Clothes Dyed

to have out done him by late aift-
Lernoon, however. T-square.

KAPPA ALPHA

Last week-end saw inuti deals by
the Knights. 6607" Jim-Saxon, the
KA‘s answer to the Flying -Parson
in track circles, madc_a test run to
Greensboro. However, it was
rumored that the time made at
W. C. .was even slower than his
usual fast pace. Despite Savon's re-

sat in with his sick fiancee. The
question iss Who nursed who or
what?

_Oji the homefront We had George
Barksdale, Bill Moore, Moe Hard-
ing, The Hat, Bilt Houck, Jim
Fisher and a few others. Higgie has
a new lease on life, after spend-
ing the week-end in Greenville.
~ We have several reports from the
week-end. Charlie Reid asks “How
fast can a ship: sink.’? Grumbles

Monday and Tuesday

March 8 and 9

“IT HAD TO BE YOU”’

“This picture,” says Time, ‘can
only be explained by an attempt to
construct a plot from numerous old
Tin Pan Alley lyrics.”

The editors of Time also pro-

| Cinema Comments

By WALTER MANN

While Hope is catching stapstick
from the Crosby Komeo,
The fated ship keeps tossing, o'er
the wayes to-old Rio.
On the road down to Rio
With the comedy trio;
Can't you

‘ear those same jokes

THARLOTTE.N.L.

_ ‘

for our old but barey Yiree. |

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS!

Dine and Dance
UPPER DECK

OF PHE

emer oa

: ° Winae 12 - i , ackin that_they2ve used so
Alterations cent brilliant (7) perfornrances. ; a . ceeded to demonstrate this theory crac ) 0
. however, “Never Shy Die” Cook Powe mumbled, Thad a good ne by outlining the entire plot With much before. ; SHIP AHOY :
24-48-Hour Service still has the gall to make continual [Pe it ee ae ann oe, wGng | the use of song titles. Jt began this | On the road down to Rio LOCATED IN SHE HRART OF CHARLOTTE
. . inquirics about the interfrat-record{— ' 2 1 y rondertul "| way--"Did you ever see a dream hey are always on the go, HELEN O'NEIL and the MARINERS
Main St. Davidson |} i, ihe said event. Some people at ov st won u yeorgeons walking? Well, Ginger Rogers did.| And blame it all_on Warner, not EVERY NIGHT BUT SUN. AND MON.
never know wher dhey're out- ae tained.” chan tin hack to Cornel Wilde all dressed up like} == on poor Sid RKO, ; DELICIOUS CUISINE . NO COVER CHARGE

classed. ; , going the answer to an Indian Love Call, Ihe evil eye's on Dottic, and

a

ALL LATEST HITS

CAPITOL
AND OTHER RECORDS

lL __

Stringed Instruments
of all kinds.
SHEET MUSIC .
HAMMOND ORGANS

STEINWAY PIANOS ©

ANDREWS
—\— MUSIC CO.

“Our 55th Year”

231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

tl notlonly_in the_infirmary, but

In spite of the fact that two
well-meaning brethren dispatched
some helpful literature to one B. Cc.
-at_W.-C,_Hormone’s_theme song

Jock (use. French pronunciation)
Hazard, the original furlined kid,
despite the discomforts of a long
and weary (but not profitless) trip
to: Sullins, returned-to the campus
for a brief stay Sunday~before cruis-

ing to Concord that evening witht

“Don Jaun® and his pal, Charles
Mitchell. Must be great!
¥ELASH—(Special to the David-
sonian)—It was disclosed by a con-
fidential source that Little Lonnic
Macaulay, having been recently
hopelessly” bed-ridden, staggered
out this week-end for a bout with
the heavyweight at U‘S.C. Ap-
parently within the last two weeks
T.itue Mac has lost several points
in

Raleigh pretty quick.’?

Several reports were rejected by
the cetsor, but if you ask Ned
Everett and. Gene Taylor, they'll
tell you.

Charles Norwood) Monroe, N. C.

We are also—greatly—indebted to-
the kindness of Bilt Beattie, one
of—our_ popular Delta _. Kappa
brothérs who was with us last term,
for his most generous and deeply
appreciated gift of a beautiful up-
‘right piano. Now wé can all enjoy
those fine Sigma Chi songs to our
heart's content!

This past week-end was certain-
ly a wheeling week-end for Sigma
Chi’s pleasing pledges. One could
practically count on the fingers of
‘one hand those that: stayed on the
campus! Chief Rotators Butt and
Craver rotated to new heights of
achievenient’ at W:. C. in Greens-
boro. After returning to the cam-

is literally the man of her dreams.”’
Since’ this method of presenting
ideas is so absolutely unique, we
decided to depart from it at this

a style could be produced. How-
ever, since there is very little time,
space or talent, we will .have to
satisfy ourselves with a criticism of
the picture. This is absolitely justi-
fiable in view of the. fact that the
picture is by far the more atrocious
of the two.

They might very easily call this
picture a fantasy. It is certainly
fantastical. The Indian lover con-
tinues to be torn up after every
song and Ginger keeps chasing him.
The only trouble is that the Indian
has turned fire chief ahd she can't
get on the wagon. After a merry
chase she finally captures the chief
(fire or Indian—take your pick)—
and. everyone is happy—Ha!

the “secession” state as well, Due

pus they released a point Statement

to his weakened condition he did/from the official headquarters of
not méet_with the same success|the Rotator’s Club listing the Sig
that he encountered in an earlier | pledges that have been taken in as
bout at Erwin Lodge. However, the] second class Rotators because of
college autlorities at Columbia did] their outstanding success in the

rey

not seem to be as disturbed by the+sécial-whirl. Fhey are: Ben Hamil-

“—""Weédnesday and Thursday—~}
March 10 and 11
“ROAD TO RIO”

On a weird and rocking steamer

rolling southward upon the

sea, ye

There's _a sinister threat awaiting,

they have her in a trance,

just as »sdon ‘as they've “a

_.Friday and Saturday
March 12 and 13

“THE EXILE”
_ Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., is having
his first fling as a producer.
/Naturally, he could. find no one
better suited to play the starring

self. He has, therefore. very gra-
ciously accepted the duty, and ac-
cording to some reports reads. his
part very well. This same rumor
states that he should not have to
read the lines since he wrote the
script himself, Im fact it seems thal
Mr. Fairbanks produced everything
for his picture but a plot. A.plot is
not really necessary so he should
-do -fairly well.

Another definite asset for this
plotless production is the appearance
of a new face. The find is Paule
Corset, who perhaps, turns in the
only decent performance of the
picture. _

And the gang will get the sheckels.|—

PATRONIZE THE DAVIDSONIAN ADVERTISERS ! ——

— chance. 4+

role in his first picture than him-

For Ueservations Phone 4-2671

ins. N T . i i -|N hing ing—swilly .
temains.°No Letter Today ”—and . point. No doubt if there were suf-] Now things are moving—swilly. ’ .
On so the bard ‘has* said—" Nor tomor- SIGMA CHI ficient time and space to attack the and the plot is getting thick, Frank 8 Grill
VICTOR > row, nor tomorrow, mor tomor- Sigma Chi take pleasure. in an- | literary value of this report and to When _Bing comes riding ona ——— “Just a Few Yards North of Davidson”
row.” nouncing the pledging of John Cal-| give this picture all it's due, some |. horse, Hope on his pogo stick. ’
COLUMBIA |. Among the wheels we find that|houn, Huntington, .W. Va., ard] very good arguments against such (Ed.’s Note: ’Nuff poetry.) ee CURB SERVICE

* Best Barbecue in Town
* Hot Sandwiches a Specialty ~—_
* Cold Drinks

Main Street

QUALITY FURNITURE

LEONARD APPLIANCES
ZENITH RADIOS

PLASTIC UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE
Ideal for Fraternity and Office Use

a
_—

—. _¢ ——
DAVIDSON FURNITURE CO.

Phone 3671

