It was a good two
weeks for the Wild.
cats, those two before
the State game last
Tuesday night. They
saw a conference
berth assured for the
Cats, and also saw
stellar center Buddy
“Cheek pull into” the
lead in conference
sori eireles, for
the moment at- least,
ive straivht family
wins quit the Cats im
tiidisputed possession
of tourth place in the
tandine and with
Dike inex pected
li io Cletisaa Ties
day night it is not
Hh khiechk them ott

CHEEK IN CONT ERENCK LEAD

yy — es
i d C a [ S po r {s BEAT WHITE PHANTOMS
Page Four e THE’ DAVIDSONIAN Pins Pairaaiy Gh Sas
State Victory Ends
Cat Winning Streak

fr B€ squad which will undoubtedly see action in the Southern Conference
Whit Cobb (13) and Co-Captains Buddy Cheek (23) and Mike Williams (24). Cheek is in the thick of
d a total of 197 points against 14 loop foes,

JAYVEES GAIN REVENGE

OVER BELMONT ABBEY FIVE

The Wildcat yearlings achieved just rev enge for their pre-
vious set back at the hands of the Belmont Abbe ay Crusaders, by
handing this same aggregation a thorough 49-33 thrashing.
Using a tight defense which allowed few Abbey shots, the Kittens
rolled to a 19-9 halftime Margin and spent the rest of the

encounter adding on to it. Long
John Richards was high for the
J. V.’s with 14 counters, the ma-
jority of which originated from the
pivot slot. Bo Roddey,
Hengeveld, and Ed Hopper abetted
the cause immeasurably with 9, 7
and 6 points respectively, Abbey’s
top point getter, Vince Virgilli, was
pretty well tied up by Heywood
Brinegar, who limited the Crusader
ace to a pair of field goals. Leftwich
accounted for 15 of the Crusaders’
33 tallies, but his individual effort
was far overshadowed by the whole
Kitten performance,

Prior to the varsity encounter
with Citadel, the Wildkittens gave
their “big brothers” sort of a les-
son in offense tactics, by rolling up
a 77-49 score over the
College squad. The victory was
doubly sweet, for the Pfieffer hoop-
sters had previously defeated the
Oak Ridge Cadets, a team which
downed the Jayvees last month. Six
of the Kittens broke into the double
scoring column, with Ed Hopper,
Heywood Brinegar and Bo Roddey
leading the scoring parade with 16,
11 and 11 points. The half time
score was 51-23 and only consistent
substitution by Coach Redding pre-
vented the score from reaching un-
heard of proportions, Ed Hopper
was particularly effective for the
J.V.'s with his under the basket

(Continued on Page Six)

Dutch,

Pfeiffer Jr.

Appalachians Down
Cat Wrestlers

The ‘Cat matters journeyed to
Boone, North Carolina, to take on

the Appalachian State grapplers
and were turned back by the score
of 22-10. Lew Tomick and Len
Sellars practically won the match
singlehanded by smashing out
double falls over Carlisle Charles
and Jack Barnard.

Jung, Alexander Win
“Dragon” Jung, the
‘Cat grappler, through with
his fifth consecutive mat victory by
pinning Bill Cox in 5:45 of the first

undefeated
came

period. Jung was never better as
he out-maneuvered and outwitted
his App adversary. Bip Sull”

Alexander won his unlimited match
from Dandy by virtue of a double
fall. These were the only two mat-
men to come out for the
‘Cats, as the remainder of the six
bouts all went to the Apps, two by
falls and four by decision,

on top

Several of the matches were hard
fought

engagements, especially in
the 136 and 165-pound classes,
where Wildcats Fesperman and

Price put up quite a struggle be-
fore succumbing to their App ad-
versary. As a whole, the Davidson

Introducin’ Mike Williams

In the disasterdus afar \ ' Tate Paid nurnered 10
Hoints just_double tle iuimnber needed ta vo iuto the eon
ference ith scorer postlion. | cottlel lose his held on top
hie rs this weel sthee the Ca ire resting from conference |
play titab next “Puescits wen meet Caps Tai in : harlotte, |
bait th Caprotins bouietiiat bod ‘Phe © ttadel sib on the
( 1 e shetld stich tipo Che bon ithe eeveted post
All the conferenee figures look ood for the Cats, “Three
ten hiehest scorers in the loop are Davidsotiiiis, ee
aie Ban ther team bea It he Tar Heel State ae Nive
titties, Which take all wames into consideration instead of
teonterence tilts, Gude and Wike stand second ind third |
t Whitestands eighth with Lio points as over dgalist co |
ine ced Gat Mihe has a tal Mo tallie 14S in conference
Buddy ha l bol 270, of Whiel be snatehed 197 under the
¥ of conferences thane mishap, Buddy is sure te
over his last ver Tea |
CAROLINA WEAK |
Phe Cats taee a wealke ned Carolina in Charlotte Tuesday
: ' there are plet | lieations that the Cats ean
ssarth oft ith the homers. the ba Hleels Were partially erp |
pied by the ineligibiity of Milte: carter in the season NUN
fher of the bie wuns, Norm WohlerZis out for the rest of
lit ison With a Knee Lijit wtined. While the Wake
Borest Dea ere ine tt biddies a workover, Nohler as
hil \ Paxton dn o¢otine a the Mhamt camps dnd: lis |
heieh thes lita daneerous ut the basket. [tis lucky for |
the’ that they are facine Carolina in Charlotte, and with : “
Reel ott Shown above are three of the mainstays of the Wildcat ca
Tournament in March. They are:
ASHMORE ROMPS the fight for the conference individual scoriffg crown, having buckete
\shinore comes out of the State fray as the bie man im
the Cyt attack. dake copped top loners for the night with
twelve points. He had the best accuracy percentage of all the SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE
Wildeats and plived a better than average tloor wane, at the
fie Time keeping clear of his ustiatl dssortinent of personal
j Is. Cheek. assusnial, was the herg of the hour until he fouled y mt
ut ith better than ten minutes of playing time left in the STARTS AS WEATE iN CLEARS
ce. With lim confined to the beneh earls in the second halt i
on Aecownt OF Fouls ee co ar ae ee crac ae Spring football finally got under way Monday of this week
Horse Steuer Alani a Nite Pare minled trom a fitteen- [after bad weather had delayed actual workouts fora week, Due
Battie aes avveut thirts five. [to the snow on the vround all last week, activities were confined
Prom indications in the Clemson and State games, Whit) | to skull practice, though this gave Coach Jamerson time to out-
eens to have revived his old) aecuraey with these long Sel) tine several iminor’ changes to be used in the Red and
hots, He hit about. four of tem straight rieht after the half | a —, Black grid attack next fall,
avainet the heys from biana.? we Conflicts
SPRING PRACTICE Fifty aes With a part of the regulars par-
oe : ticipating in other sports, the squad
pring Reeene turnout on the gridiron ive Bed a LEStE Whi e's a still turned out forty strong for
fernoon WIth about oO prospeedives reporting, Tin aan ttl C ll the initial outdoor sessions Mon-
to thi ears reoulars and layvees, there were lots of Hew and day. The ranks are pretty thin at
old) faces in Davidson eridiron cireles, The new laees were Fifty of the Red and Black's | tailpack and fullback posts, and
those of several of the many guys on the hill who could play fleetest of footsturned out the first} most of the ends are either par-
( but enuever taken aerack at i here before, Amony of the week to answer Pete | ticipating in basketball or wrestling,
the ' ere Bob Miller, Who played venter on the Whittle’s call for track team as-| Or they are concentrating on their
freshman teat in AS and who has, just retired from the pirants. Led by thirteen lettermen | studies. At the other positions, the
ervice ohn Rittenburw, who was out last fall with a bad from last year, and most of the| line-up is well padded, and Coach
hone il Pave Jackson, Por different reasons, Hal Mapes, cross-country team of recent fame, | Jamerson will have plenty of ma-
Bu Cheek. Mike Willaims, Mot Pri Ball Alexander, ana the tracksters began loosening up| terial to try out in the scrimmage
all linsou Were notoon hand, leavine ¢ oa hh Charlie pretty to vet in shape for their first meet | Saturday afterioon,
hy of ends. Mike and Buddy ares busy with hardwood Aetly Which will be with Furman here on Staff
hie Mut and Ball ave cloine heavy duty on the wrestling March 24, Coach Charlie is being ably as-
nats ane Hal and Biv Bill are grappling with the books. Lettermen- Back sisted by Coaches Redding, Money-
mhey ihe positions arespretty well stocked Most prolific scorers from last} han, and the new backfield coach,
Dont miss your chante to eet ae tieket to the conference | year's -squad who are back in| Ray Brown, Who has just arrived
tournament-in Derha March 16. All the tiekets let Out) [harness are Gundar Gray, Ed Hop-| on the campus after his recent grid
ha “opie riublic ere gone the first day. aid our supply per, Whit Cobb and Gene Bing-| activities and praduation from the
may not last lone. The Wildeats are plenty tire they 'l} be |ham, The latter is working at} University of Virginia. This quar-
there they pve even eetline fitted out in new moiforms for | present with the gridders in their] tet is working the boys long and
the oecusien, Pe site to be there to support ‘em, if you ean. pring practice, but will soon begin | hard to get them into shape and
leven if thes mm ntl fournanient (keep your Tingers Working on his 440 timing, Jn the plot some strategy for next year’s
rossed Tones tan tells we're @oine to beat State) you |distance races, we have Gundar | schedule which will be about the
will t " tl orade A"? basketball Gray, Bill Iverson, Dave Ander- same as last year's.
———————_ son, and Murdock MeKeithan Regulars Out
ie Mp] Pred McAUister and Lee Willing- At the tailback position, Carl
“Tham lettered dast- year in the 880, Sheppard and Auburn Lambeth are
THE FINEST IN MEN'S CLOTHING Bingham in the 440. Whit Cobb is alternating. Mac Ervin and Carl
the big man in the 220, the 100,! Pahleare the two out for fullback,
and he also broad jumps; Ed Hop-} while’ old-timer Charlier Rimer is
ACK WOOD Ltd per does the hurdles, ‘and Pete being assisted by blocking back
J 9 e Srown and Dave Walker clear the John’ Rittenburg. Some of the
bar on the pole vault. (Continued on Page Five)
102 East Fourth Street Charlotte In the field events, Brownson 3: pclae
tosses the javelin, Eborn puts the
shot. In addition to these men-
tioned, there are many more who
participated last year, and will show
improvement this season,
48 Schedule By DOUG HIX
The track schedule is as follows: It seem that “Big Chief” Mike
March—29-—Furman,—home, Williams —is—fighting—it—out—with
© UNIVERSITY STYLE SINGLE-BREASTED SUITS April 10—University of South “Sparky” Cobb for second place
April 17—W. & L., |Lexington,| scoring honors this week. Mike,
Carolina, Columbia. who was slated with Buddy as an
© DOUBLE. BREASTED LONG ROLL WORSTED Va. : early season choice for team scoring
AND FLANNELS. April 29—The -Citadel—home. honors, is not letting the crystal
May 1—Clemson, home. xazers down. But he’s had plenty
® HAND-LOOMED SPORT COATS May 15—Southern Conference. | of tough luck this season, having
—— (D) sprained his right ankle in practice
® BUTTON DOWN SHIRTS Son: “Pop, why do they rope] just before the State game and
off the aisle at. church weddings?” | then his left one during the Furman
® SPREAD COLLAR AND TAB SHIRTS WITH ° Pop: “So the bridegroom can’t] same. In spite of this fact, in 18
get away, son.” games played he has scored 226
FRENCH CUFFS points with a 12.6 average. No
= “We were so happy for over a! doubt you have seen the difference
, © WOOL AND LISLE HOSE year, your honor, and then—then] jp, the score and in the game we
the baby came.” play when .Mike is not in there,
© FORMAL WEAR Boy or girl?” that he has taken over Ed White's
; “Girl+she was a ‘blond and] place as the brains of the five be-
moyed in next door.” caus¢ of his uncanny play-making

ability. Have you ever watched him
fake and see the little fellers run
around—leoking—-for—the—ball,He’s
great—take, for instance, the time
he pulled the V.M.I. game out-of
the fire. Standing 6’ 2”, weighing
170 pounds, he sinks ’em with little
or no effort at all, pucketing 19
points worth against the College
of Charleston as his all time high
last year.

Mike has seen a lot of action on
the court, having played two years
at North Wilkesboro High and
then two years at McCallie where
he made All-Mid-South guard.
Upon graduation he entered
Davidson, continuing his basketball
career for a year before being
galled by Uncle Sam's fly boys, He
was stationed on the Mariannas for

10 months as a gunner in a B-29,
participating in some 13 missions.
During-this-time-he-played-football
and basketball for the air corps,
whose basketball team won the
Pacific Olympic championship, He
then returned to Davidson after
some two years in service.

Mike is in the Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, president of the
Junior class, member of the ‘“D”
and Beaver clubs and -is a letter
man in both football and tennis.
He plans to go into the “dry kiln”
business (whatever that is) upon
graduation. When asked about ‘his
the field of
love he just put his head under his

accomplishments in
arm pit-and wouldn't say a word.
May I quote his roommaté, Free-
man Jones, ‘‘He loves ’em all.”

Five Straight Wins
Before State Fray

The ‘Cats had their five-game
winning streak brought to a
screeching halt Tuesday night by
the powerful N.C. State W olipack,.
Coach Norman Shepard's boys
had stretched their conference

streak to five by downing Clemson
and The Citadel and had risen to a
lofty fourth
standings.

The Pack, rebounding from the
scare Duke gave them last Satur-
day, poured on the heat to lambast
the Presbyterians 89-54 in. Raleigh
The locals grabbed a quick 6-1 lead
but it was short lived as the State
cagers roared back to make it 41-21
at halftime

The

place in) conference

"Cats started fast again in
the after frame and the
lead to 14 points before Buddy
Cheek and Whit Cobb fouled out.
That was curtains for the David-
son five State regulars and re-
serves rolled on from there. Mike
Williams and Bobby Maner played
the second half under the distinct
of * four personal
hanging over them.
man duty Jake
came

dropped

fouls
That left yeo-
Ashmore who
well with four
four from the free
for a total of 12 for

handicap

for

through
and

line

fielders
throw
the night.
Whit Cobb hit for 11 before leav-
ing the tilt and Cheek garnered 10
before his departure, All was
for the Hill, however, be-
Cheek’s 10 points boosted
into the Southern Conference
scoring lead over W. & M.’s Andy
Giermak,

Easy Win Over Citadel
The Wildcats had made their
fifth straight win Saturday night
with a strong second half to beat
The Citadel, 69-30, The teams left
the court at halftime with a 20-12
score in favor of the locals,
Cheek led the return fight by
pouring 17 points in the latter half.
He made five in the third half for
a total of twenty-two for the night’s
work, The lanky center made ten
of twelve attempts from the floor
and added his other two points in
four tries from the charity line,
Williams hit for 17 and Cobb made
eight.

not
dismal
cause
him

Drub Clemson
The Clemson game Thursdays
marked the 'Cats biggest score of
the year as they rang up an 85-52

triumph, There was never any
question of the outcome as the
white clad ‘Cats flipped in the
buckets from all angles in the

Davidson College match box.
Cheek and Williams again paced
the scorers with 21 and 18 points
respectively.

The week’s game left the ’Cats
with an 8-6 conference standing and
an almost certain bid to the family
tournament in Durham,

mat team looked considerably bet-
ter than usual, and put up a hard
fought match all the way. The sum-
maries:

121-pound classJung
fall over Cox, 5:45.
128-pound class—Dancy
cisioned Hunter.
136-pound clasyBparks (A) de-
cisioned Fesperman.

(D) won by

(A) de-

145-pound  class—Sellars (A)
won by fall over Charles, 30
seconds,

155-pound class—McLean (A)

decisioned Evans.

165-pound class—Harris (A) de-
cisioned Price.

175-pound © class—Tomick
won by fall over Barnard.
Unlimited class—Alexander (D)
won by double fall over HEnRYs

(A)

At Davidson
Dan W
Tyler

smokes
CHESTERFIELDS

Dan says: °

®

“Since I've been smoking, I’ve
smoked Chesterfields because of
their suberb quality and satis-
faction which no other cigarette
provides.”

Voted TOPS!—Chesterfield the
largest selling cigarette in
America’s collegés’ (by nation-

wide survey).
a

