a

YLDCAT oo SEEN HERE -HEARD THERE
Published Weekly by the YKCA a
Once again your roving reporter
gd tor Harry 4. McLean ‘as been able to dig up a few choice
a . items of informstion.
‘Joe Vence Bob Coble Heard tiuct the Davidson Gentle-
John Rose Bill MeLean men (?) were a little shy in welcom-

ing their guests last Friday nite.I
ask you now, was that the courteous

ene aes orn oo ee .

a ee eee emeenein: meme

—~.. FOOD FOR THOUGHT = - thing? Ten (10) men -present—to_greet
. FOOD ‘ « thirty-five (35)"young ladies, eee
a a te v= ' Heard: That John Folger has made

“What is the “Davidson Spirit", @ strong bid in the Tocal race along
Even before most left home to come With, Jack Bridgenan, John }cBride, |
nere to school, we head heard of it, and that local flash, Bill (Weeping,
Visitors tell us.they "feel" it du- Willie) Mebane, By the way gentleisen
ring only short stays on, the canpugCitation is buck, -

Are we in its midst awere of it? Wondering oo

ne
—Sust“whet ‘is-this—intangible-some-—_— Whose. swan«gong is, "My Old Flame!"
thing for_which we have such a repw* Whero does Journy Welborn spend
tation? — the weckends? — ; ——

I believe it is a spirit of frie ‘why has Charlie Hobinson taken —
ndliness and fair play so norneate, such an interest in the choir of hig
* ‘ ¥ - Rey 7 .
ing thet it invades every avenue of home town church?
student activity. We sec its eviden Why Ben Dryman maxes such frecuent
ces in athlatics;in the classroom, trips to Charlotte?—
in student-feaculty relationships,in Why Jim Brown visits home every

—our—sod-el tife,—in_thecveryday coweekend? }ow is this the "Old Plame?
—ntacts_with "the outside". It's more Ueard. |
than "tradi tion”, It's a powerful ——Jghn Codinaton certainly-is joy-
GMaracter building influence to be ful over a certain transfer to °C,
protected and preserved for future tiis fall. _ ;
Davidsonians,. ; from, Sjringer iloskins,"Let's go
Mow will this affect- the man whoto Ainston." Keep trying jiuscleg you
completes his years at Davidson? Will get there yet,

Mabitg are stronz- whether £00d or John Rose certainly left or was
bed, The habits of good sjortman- he left standing last week:
shiv and gemine friendliness ac- . . Cidvin Wyatt supposedly goes to

cuired here, possible only by ex- Winston (home ?) every weekend. Stor
posure to it, will certainly accom-went in the middle of the week. That
pany him as he takes his place in 18 bad fellow, ee .
the world,. There are strong attri-, That traveling man, fom Abell,mem
butes which if developed can be tions, Concord, l:.C. » Chester, S.C,
rungs in the ladder_of snuecess. tlontreat, N.C., and Charlotte, N.C.
The mainténance of this thing“we@fong his varied weekends, kan, that
call “spirit" is a personal resron-18 Moving. ae
sibility of every student. Only by Charlie (Moooo) Patterson is still
the passing on from cluss to clage G01nG to Charlotte. Neviland Schenk
widd -it survive-as it has thus for,loves his home SHilby. Prank Sherril
It is the same challenge flung out well you know-.Frank, -he -dcesntt—say —-
_ uch{?
by the urperclasses through the MUCH Tse -
yeers, but the added prestige of un Well, Big Leighton wnat do you
tainted revutation makes it ring ave to sey about your trips to Cham
beter ty + ° . wy —-- ‘ —
louder this time. Will we let our tot te? Commuting? a t oe:
alumni down’ Will we keep faith Seen at the """ on different oc-
with posterity ? his is food for Casions, Mike Williams, bob Johnson,
thought! - Joe Vance, Joe Stukegs =

