PAGE THREE

“Southern” Fair
Attracts Students

Last week many Davidson stu
dents took timeoff. from their stu-
dies and soon found
‘outside of the main entrance of the
Southern States Fair in_Charlotte,
tightly clutching their small green
passes in their hands. Upon gain-
ing admittance most of them passed
up the Agricultural building in fav-
or of the bright lights of the Mid-
way which stretched beyond. The
quest for knowledge, which is in-
born in all the sons of the Hill,

was prevalent in their minds; and
the intriguing secrets that lay ahead,
hidden iu the ‘Midway, must be dis-
sovered. .
Momentarily free of the solitude
of the library and the austerity of
the classrooms, some of the stu-
dents sought recklessness and dar-
ing on the various amusement rides,
while the more studious endeavored
to further their knowledge in the
field of human anatomy. Of course,
there were also the Ereshmen who

themselves

were fascinated with’ the Pin-Head-}

ed Man and the Monkey Fxhibitions
which were two -of the numerous
sideshows that surrounded: the Mid-
way.

While their more studious mates
sat home in Davidson surrounded
by tall stacks of books, these neo-
.phytes of higher education were ac-
tually crowded closely together én
the first six rows of Georgia South-
ern’s smoke-filled Jair. (All other
seats were bearing the weight of
upperclassmen.) The nervous looks
of anticipation soon gave way to
broad smiles of satisfaction when
the four-piece band blurted out with
Becthoven’s FVifth-for they knew
full well that the show was on!

As the band continued playing,
one hundred and eighteen pounds
of gorgeous femininity, thrown to-
gether fia wonderful way and tied
by two pieces of small satin, danc-

~ ed onto the stage and proceeded to
entertain our now wide-eyed Fresh-

—men—-by—throwing things around.
(We don’t quite understand that
Jast phrase, but that’s the way it
was told to us).

Six cigarettes later Georgia her-
self came lightly tripping across the
stage with her bulging personality.
A hush descended on-the gathering
as everyone sat back to see what
was coming off. Though abounding
with beauty and grace, Georgia’s
main attraction consisted of the
clothes she ‘didn't wear. Her pri-
mary purpose, we believe, in the
field of entertainment. was to por-
tray to the masculine world the
new Fall Fashions. In no time at
all the aptness of the term “Fall”
Fashions was imade perfectly clear.

Overlooking her. facial features,
Georgia was not a bad looking girl.
In the interest of our paper we felt
it our duty to have a personal in-
terview with this charming? crea-
ture. After waiting in line for an
hour with other students who felt
the same duty, we were finally ad-

‘tained By the college will be ai-

Political

By JIMMY HENRITZY

Draft Deferments

For ROTC Students

os

TW's time we. applied a__liule
straight, hoaest thinking to the po-
‘litical seene before us. Whether

your political sentiments are asiride

'
All Davidson ‘students who meet
the scholastic requirements main-

hours credit, providing they make
fifteen quality points this semester.
These students, however, must
agree*to serve in the army for u
their

writ&s who have been throwing
out consistently . “4:*~ tremendous
amount of shop-wom, but never-
theless etiective clapwap abott Mr

TNE DAVIDSONI: AN

Noehret To Give
Organ Recital

‘

Angles

and HENRY HANSEN

Senator Tait are bound to clas.
The possibility of this is remote
tndecd? Present relations between Robert Nochren, Tastractor ‘of

the two ate propitiously amicable,

¢ . - . .
agined and he will be coatinnally | jand in London, a broadcast in Ams

at daggers drawn— with—ltimCer—prertanecror we tMITIONational Ra-
ress. It is true that Mr. Dewey] dio’ on ihe insterie carga in the

is, in the words of his own aide~.{ Westerkerk, and at the tnvitation |

lowed to complete this year’s : c organ and piano om the music fac-
activities. Pre-ministerial students the donkey or the elephant is not} Neither Mr. Dewey. nor the Sena-| alty. will presént an organ recital
will be exempted from the drait}*® "portant. as: that you have} tor, both ineiligent men, want Abin Chambers Nuditorigm of David,
while) pre-medical and pre-dental honest reasons for preferring one | serious clash, It would be bad for]‘.on College of Monday evening,
applicants will probably be deferred candidate to the other, Uniortunate- both _belitically. No one expects! October 25th, at 8:15 o'clock. Mr.
until their graduation from medical ly most political views are based | Senator ‘Paft to be a “yes man.” | Nechren has returned to Davidson
school. on silly, tallactous senuiments, not bat there are so many Treason: | jolluwing wd ‘summer in Europe
ROTC students are_not_ “heces- hard cold facts, No doubt much RAINS such a rift that those who where he_ntade an extensive study
rthatmis now-true has been said of [know them can only regard such] of French and, Dutch organs and
sarily deferred; however, defer- both candidates, but in the present an idea_as. preposterous, - —— | played severat important recitals,
mentg, can be had by those who are campaign. tere is a partenlarly| ‘Point No. 4/Mr. Dewey is con-| which included appearances before
carrying approximately fifteen vicious group of die-hard liberalfsiderably more liberal than wm-lthe Orean Music Society of Ene

ne

ee

period of two years upon
graduation from college.

The ROTC Deparunent has a
quota of those who-are deferred
in each class. This quota will, prob-
ably cover all students—- who are
eligible and who desire ROTC de.
ferments. If this is not the case and

Dewey. Add + your typical “anti-
Dewey Jayman. armehar politician”
gobbles this hoicum up like se much
cotton eandy and then, to make it
worse, goes around blurbling uUiis
vapid nonsense in the ears of any-
on who will listen. We shall make
it the purpose of this article to de-

there are more students applying} punk some of the more frequent
for deferments than the quota al-| ayq spuriows spiuecring of these
lows, grades on the qualifying test, ClO'sh and liberal writers.

which is to be given on January Point .No. ‘Our imisiniurmed
15, will determine which students} aiiq “ihisinformivg  wiaters, — de-
are allowed ~— deferments. All sevibed above. claim) that the
ROTC students will be required reactionary “Old Guard in’ the

Is

to take this examination which

House and Senate wilt capture the
similar to an intelligence test.

Republican party and upset all
Dewey's plans. This very — con-
viciously ignores certain political
tacts, AS President. Mr. Dewey will
have many political plums to dis.
tribute in the torm of jobs and ap-
-pointments which are c’ great po-
litical value in the states and dis-
iricts.” Members, of Congress who
try to wreck Dewey's plans will
naturally cut themselves off trom
stich plums, Furthérmore, the has-
tility ofa popular Uresidem cotdd
be a great fiability to members of

All veterans who have served for
a year or more are exempt from
the peacetime draft. Ex-servicemen,
who served tess than a year, but
more than 90 days before VJ-Day
will also be exempted. Further in-
formation, if desired, may be ob-
tained from the ROTC Depart-]
ment. _

Ten Students Earn

e i Congress coming up for re-election
High ROTC Status "so
; Point No. 2. The Democrats

The ROTC Department and the | will contcol the Senate and Mr
President's Office recently announe-j Dewey will be powerless 10 put
ed that ten men had attained the! through Ja "program. Phe probing
status of “Distinguished—Militaryiinger or fact Tels US dial GT Te
Students.” This honor is bestowed! Dewey is elected by anything re-
upon men who have completed motely approaching the. landslide
three years of military - training. the polls indicateshe wilh be. the
fulfilled summer camp requirements, Reprbtican senators in all the states
and will receive their military = ail new labeled “doubtiul”

will ride in
missions and. academic degrees atjon his coattail, Such idle talk can
graduation. lysche: wssigned -rocerumy sirall

“Distinguished -Mili- ton

tary Student” must be in the up-lindividuals wha would like to. see
per third of his academic and mili-] Me. Dewey handicapped in his pro-
tary classes and is picked by the] grams. .

Professor of Military Science and Pout No. 3. Mr Dewey and

shghily left of center,” but Mr,
Dewey has been that way for some
uume- this is no sudden thing; and
hy his admirable system of conter-
‘with his New York otfice
halders, he has proved thar he can
and does get atong with men more)
conservative than he that
he’ is not an qutocrat, dictator, on
one who : on a proup
“yes men” around him. +

Point No. 3. This is the most,
ndiculous Of alk and ean only in-
dicate the desperation of the men, known authority on Dutch organs.
who write such tripe. Mr Dewey. In that country he was able to play
has consistely avoided saying Ze} many wiportant and jamous instro- |
aculy. what he intends to do in: ments, and accompanied a commit-
the matter of foreign relations and“ tce from the Dutch Government on

of the Belgian Governmuecat a na-
vonal braadcast froin Lrussels on
its largest organ. |

Last Spring Mr.

Nochren was

enees ay

Foundation to sindy the VSth cen.

tury organ in france, During seyen
is. and
every part o1 France and saw more
SQ) organs. them at
beauty and unusual interest
Iauaer tn Tolland, Alr. Neehren wis

the guestor Dr JL. AL Vente, well:

insisis of} than some uf

great

F

Letter to the Editor

Dear Sir:

We wish to call to your attention
the discreditable situation now
existing regarding the column en-
Utled “Athong the Greeks” which
appears in the: Davidsonian, Fvery-
under the innpression that
this column for the printing of
Iraternity mews each week. with
equality for all traternities. .

With this in mind we, would, ap-
peeciate. an explanation as 20 the
reason two fraternities have had
their columns appear in the David-
sonian ccansecutively for the inst
Untee editions although other fra-
ternities have forwarder! their col-
oimnns lO yout offiee atthe prescrib-

onc is

is

ved ume, Lesides this one traternity

recently had a cotunin approximat-
ing 7000 words in length. In efivet,
ahis fraternity was permitted to oc.
cupy the which could have
ly Been used by two dirdternities.

ppace

mes

arded a grant from the Carnegie From the above it can be conchid-

|

weeks ot travel he visited Teariy fing discriminatory practices in se

ed that.the members of the David-
ronian staff aré delinitely employ -
lecting the ta
appear each
Greeks.”

fraternity colunins
woek in “Amoag the
This assumption can be
substantiated hy the, fact that one
of the fraternities in question kas!
jaat only the editor and bnsiness;
manager ot the paper among its
members but also several other

accusing these
tentional aliserirnination,
tainly

Psartly men cof

hat it cere,
provides an eacetlent
such oan assumption,
Since itis understood by all con-
cerned that there is not sulticient |

basis
lor

other important fields. white his a trip to Northern Holland where
opponent, «Mr. Truman, is more.a sindy was made ot more than 20
than specific. This ignores ther ormarts atthe 17th aad) 18th centur-
fact that, no one can say whal is ‘es

going toy happen in the months} * ——

and years té_came. thus na. one+—

can be “inore than specifie’ in such F tb Hl B d Pj k
mutters. -b also ignores the fact 00 d an , IC §
Urata president OM. TramancA*ai

course, excepted) cannot “do” any
thing by hituseli, Vis Conmaress and
State Department mast act with
um and beiore Fim in most eases.

These are bar a few of the in-
sidions rumors being civenlated in
Use neie-of wath, Snech—eanes—a-

Two Losers Saturday

reverberated with
the notes of Davidsow Colle
Foothall aad judg
Ing frome thes apphvuse msing from

Pwo stam.
the

Tand

saturday,

: . . the Stour ehecermpe Seetions, their |
“Ar. Déwey and his we are jenl- R .
- . ‘ tenis losses were not reflections on
ous oof the  Wrarrens because
their, more than prety danghters

Chasen by aby. Allen Bone, divec-:

have been geting more and better
a & & toy at the Duke handy to represent!

blicity than the not rents
Dewes ya ar . bbe, . i the Middicn in Weir Uk with the

ewev sons SSI eA
Wey SONS” SY Mune Devils the Davidson boys pre-

notice, Hut, in conclusion, we can

sented a clever cand well exceuted *

only say that you must be on your Chey formed a “D":

guard against such unfounded non

senses Get the facts and most swoh
warnings and rmintors will appear
ridiculous and mean as they realty,

are,

per Tor THe,

show off by forming into ce ship.
sailing olf the Geld tothe tune af
riling, Madame Over The Cool
Green ‘Vurt,”

Tactics and the President of the
College.

At graduation William M. Boyce,
Jr.; Clayton C. Carpenter, Jr.; Wil-
liam B. Fesperman; William Db.
Johnson; James M. Jung; Andrew
B. Kirkpatrick, Jr.; Flynn V. Long,
Ja John L. Payne, Jr.; James I.
‘Rast; and Charles K. Sink who
were recently recognized as “ Dis-
tinguished Military Students” will
be graduated as “Distinguished Mil-

. ” or
Mary Graduates. At this time they three or foue others, Charles Elad-
will also receive their commissions

lev, a senvor, will apn direet the
in the Reserve Corps, but due tof

Red And Black
Plan Fall Activities

Within the next few weeks. the
Red and Diack Mitsquers will begin
work on dheir miiproducyon, “Ar-
sciic and Old Lace.” ‘the play was
chosen at thei.lirst mecting, dur
ing which they discussed and read

ns

mitted intd ler dressing Toom (still

unable to figure out why it was
called such). We told her why we
were -there; and she said she would
be glad to tell us her story, so that
Saiz could in tugn relate it to those
“cute little hoys with the darling
red caps.”

She said that she was born in
“Southern Georgia,” and that she
was really a beautiful baby. Her mo-
ther praudly pointed out her beau-
tiful baby-blue eyes and her then
bl ade curly hair to all the neigh-
b. usu he said when she grew up,

“she juse picked up where her moth-
er had left off (or she left off what
her mother had picked up).

Many a heart was saddened when
the Fair closed up Saturday night
because the students knew when
that -happened they couldn't see
anymore of Georgia. We think we
are safe in saying that many of the
sons of Stewart Ney will forever be
indebted to Georgia for pointing out
to them some of the fairer things
of life.

BIRTH ANNOUNCEMENT

On Friday morning at four o’-
clock at the Presbyterian Hospital
in Charlotte,-a nine and one half
pound baby girl was born to Mr.
and Mrs. Bill Smith. Mrs. Smith
and the baby are doing fine.

_WHETHER_ REPORT __

The forecast for Davidson and
vicinity for the week-ehd calls for
fair with rising’ temperatures. No
rainfall through Sunday. Low tem-
perature Saturday morning, 44 to
47 degree; low temperature Sunday
morning, 48 to 51 degrees. High
temperature Sunday afternoon, 73
to 75 degrees.

TREW GURLEY.
+ BILL SARGENTA

:Campus Club since the beginning

| middle of September, in a simple|# dramatic group in prévious years.

- | Committee.

‘Grigsby, Henry~Hansen, Dick Har-"

their high rating they may apply Pen sretkiogs of ths zronp acuity
ei i "yo apvicare | roiessors iy.
he R lar Fupervisers include Professors (Dn
for a commission in the Regula win, Lilly, and Wood
Army, and it will be granted with- voueer . .
out further training When we Davidson Student Body
James F. Rast, who will grad-| #!empts to produce-a play, ~it-is
. , | e . . . .
uate in January, will receive.a Reg- contromted with a maj problem:
' this being the total absence of po-

ular Army commission, 4

tential actresses in the student body.
The situation has been cased in the
past, however, by the wives of Pro-
fessors, the wives of students, or
the seeretaries, aad often times stu-
dents from Queens’ playing the
necessary feminine rolls.
_ The history of the Red and Blacle
Masquers begins. actually, in) the
schoul year 3920. 21; yet, Vrere was

a

Campus Club

Thirty-nine men have been re-
ceived into the membership of the

of the fall semester. Official- ac-
ceptance and welcome of the main
group of these took place in the

ceremony at the first meeting of This avas the year that Professor

the year. President Herb Meza Erwin joined the Davidson faculty

spoke a few words of welcome, and and assumeéd his duties ag adviser.
12

the group-was warmly greeted by The first production of “fie Mas-

the members individually (ters Was a minstrel yifichowas re-

John McBryde was elected Treas- ceived by the students with: much

urer to succeed Tom Davis, who] cithusiasm. as it broke a ten- year
’

y off the

did not return to Davidson, but} Period of ¢ramatic inact
transferred to Columbia! Univer-| CAMpus. = —
sity. James M. -Lane of Gaffney, | ryouts—or_tiie—current—produe-
S. C., won olection to the Social] tion will-be held soon, the exact time
to be announced in Chapel. Lt is

Those men who have joined the] fronv the actors and crews of these ;
club this term are: productions that membership in the;

Everette Adams, Horace Jiall.| Red and Black Masquers is select-
Jerry Barkas, J.1D. Brown,’ Jack] ed.
Branch, Albert Bridgembn, Bob .
Burroughs, Nat Daniels, David Mrs. » Cumming (Elizabeth
Deck, Earl Ferguson, Ed Glenn, Chandier) is the only faculty wife
Joe Griffitts, John Gibbs, Bob] yho has written a book.

ee eR Pe ee

The Navy seemed ta appreciate
the band’s. going down, and from
said, Davitson has
score chalked up
Captain Ward, commandant
Midshipmen at the-Acadeny,

whit was an

Sigma Upsilon Meets
Four Papers Read

tast week Sigma Upsilon, honor- }-" ;
ary creative writing fraternity held] tainly appreciate the band’s being
its first mecting of the voar atttae Phere an our side and playing for
Kapa Sigma fraternity house. The The 6ahibition was wonderful.’
Cheerteeders Walt

other
of
said,

Hs,

program and business were carried Klin and C. }.
out by the -newly elected officers} Kempi chipped. in_io. say. “The
for the yearswho are President | boys: dell swell looked periectly!
Stan Wennett) Vice 2 resident, Frank | lined up tous. They've got a lot of |
ene Secretary, Walter Alann, [lite Mey acthally Gave us as umeh
and Feel Master. Dave Gamprel | -"bport as oar own men did.”

The program of the first mecting News of the Navy show preceed-
consisted in dhe reading of papers by ed the Presbyterian music-makers
Vrof, Lilly Tuba bytes. Jack tlaz- [to Uheir might game at State. andy
ard. and Uave Gambreil, Fach though the stare was mare ldpsid-

pa

per was discussed and erticised’ by ledly against their inspiratees there
faculty and students, the exhibition put on camed even
The overall parpose of Sigmajimore and better comments *~ The

Upsilon ig the recognition of liter
ary talent from the campus. It of-
fers to. the students expert eriti-
cist on their written works. thus
encouraging better papers and more
capable, writers,

Davidson's Biue Pencil ‘chapter
of* Sigma Upsilon was established
in JOEL The fraternity shas for the
past cight yeavs been inacewe as a

Monsicians stragiled ouy on the tield
mM organized contusion and when the
dium fight went out, a big *D"
was oudined in small red lights at.
lached-to the band members’ shoes.
After .the playing af Dawidxson’s
Alma Mater the fights took life and
inarched across to the Walfpack side
rtd form a leering orange-cyed wolf's
‘The effect, of the band en

head,

national, but is yow' pucing forth} route was. almost weird, as all that
a movement which is hoped to re-| could be seen was 120 _niformiy |
xtore-it-to-the active ist again, bebbing Fed spletches. As the

The traternity consists of twenty | Wollls dead. ubey honored—their
two brothers. They are: Pacukky—] hosts with a rendition of “Who's

Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?"

Dr. Davidson, Dr. Cumming,. Dr.
Their wind up was an outline of

Fewin, De, Gallant, Dr. Goldiere.| (,. t@ of North Caroliya. A glow-

Mr. Greet. Dr. Tonnston, Dr. Villy fing aroling Moon rose and set,
Mr. Payne and De. Wood, Siderits accompanied by the strains of the
— Daye Gambrell, Mae Wars, Wal. | {PPFopriate Song.

‘Sian Kennett. --Frank
Jack Wazard. Wil-

There are at least five faculty
Pfanulies who have. four children
Charles Flertwig. Samfeach Clingles, Richards, C.K.
Robinson, tohn Cytes. Bill Currie, Erowns, Kimbroughs and. Cun-
and Gill Calhoun, ninghams) but none have five. Ih

must. be predestination.

ter Mann.

~ ;
enniion, him

liamson,

ages eee +

According to the latest WorklAL.

4

ris, James Henritzy, Doug Hoge- Couscience is an inner’ voice-shat

wood, Bob Johnson, Bob Keever,| warns -somecone is looking.—
Bill Ledbetter,, Harry Linn, . Bob! Mencken.
McAmis, Joe McClure, Joe Mc-} In spite of the fox’s conning, his

Leany, Stewart McMurray, Charles| skin is. oiten sold.

Mills,. McLean Mitchell, Glenn} ‘Ihe only cifferenee between a-rut
Neal, Lan Pan, Linwood O'Briant,|and a.grave is theit ‘dimensions.—
Herb Russell, Jack. Scott, Ralph) Glasgow.

Roberts, Keith Sink, Gerald Smith,| Facts do not cease to exist_be-

Graham> Smith, Ear| Woodall, and| cause they are ignored:—Aldous
Bill Young. ' | Haxley. *

‘The Davidson chapter of O.1D.K.
fraternity foundediwas the fourth in the nation. — |
at Davidson) has 16 chapters: and -

Sigma Di Sigma (physics fraternity |

manac (1948), Gamma Signa Fiisi- |

lon (cheniistry

Davidson Colege h
~ immediately

ad a. Ku Klux;

founded at Davidson) has 45, Klan following the

=o War Devween the States. It was.or-
The Phi Reta Kappa Chapter at} ganized by a member of the facul-
Davidson was the second in the|ty and composed of students of the.

South established in a liberal arts
college.

college and clerks’~in ‘the local

stores,

-and_an—anenor aint donped: -the -S4HC that —by—adopting--the arboy

complete with white sails, and then}

tor spirit.|”
The color company and myself cer-)

Space 10 publish ten tratemity col-
wns each week, we reeoomend
the followin me policy to he adopted,
hy the Davidsonian to reeuty ghe
present abominable satuation. First,
we recommend that The Davidson-
tan should establish a@ sehedule so
that it would oaly We teeessary for
Inescribed portionof the fraternity |
coluoit writers to submit a colin
every Tew weeks cand have, thes
column printed. Ry adopting steh

KS

RIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1948

a

But, in time, a feeling was increas
ingly evident in the Central Gov
ernment and particularly, in th
other Status states that the choic
had not been wise, had, in fact, bee
extremely unwise.
course, stemmed from the extreme
arronance and the ridiculous pride
in Status position displayed by cer-
tain members of this new Statu
state. It was reinforced by the pul.
lication of such documents as t’
one “quoted above. Thus the ™
Status state came ‘to be terme.
hovean ciche for this
state, suddenly finding itself in pos-
session of new powers and authori-
ly, and being insufficiently” mature
to handle this power and its cor
cquent responsibility in anything
approaching # wise or intelligent
manner, acted as did ythe noveau
riche in those days — the power
went to their heads and almost

sult. But the choice had been made:
the Central Government and other

Status states were powerless to re-

voke what had been dane. It was
only heped by eke that; in. time,
the mentbers of this new Status

state would reach suificient: maturi-
ty of mind and intelligence of out-
look to cease indulging in such tri-
waltties of behavior and thought.

Hut now to an analysis of the in-

tien of abe ‘sali, We are not nee es: {teations and aims of the Neo-status

state made ov tng Patvenu. These

can only he sMid to bear out the
(echings of insecurity and meanness

f utind ateributed ta certain mem-
hers of this new Status state. (Fo ve-
vii with, an insinuarion was made”
that the prophet’s Neo-status state
had aims of becoming a Status state
but was not brave or honest enough
to dinnounce such intentions. It is
evident fronr ans that the spirit of
the members and leaders of the
“Neo-sdayis was corfipletely misuit-
| derstood by the svyiter of this dacu-
nent, Chaving known in his own
piatlineonly -at-erdent-desire and
ambition to become a “Status” and

the quality ot their presentations —HHanmany_hours witi-not bern

j necessarily wasted cach week, See-
ond, the numbertot words for each
draernity should be limited so that
cach fraternity will beon an equal
“stadun,

In conclusion, we would like to

reforing the present discrintinacory
fayatem) can be remedied and that
jall the fraternities will be on an
equal-footing regarding publication
Inatters,
SIGNED:
TIM HARDEN q
PRED SCUWAEMMILE, TR.
JACK PAYNE
FRANK STRATE |
KEN GOODPASTURE

NON STATUS ANSWERS
NEO STATUS

tativor:
~

“Phe situation became — more

-wrave and tension nionnted, white:
[beth ta aclions reparded the natives
(OF the other with yristrust, “A crisis
iS imeviishle.” was the rampant “wry
of the people. and . ‘The above
quotation 4s taken trom a document
translated by a member of the Sta-’
tus group. Take most men avho write
fiistory oa the ‘seene, this particular
one beeame so embroilec! in the
scene ate moment that he allow ed,
hiyiseli to lose complete grasp of the
basic ‘truths of the situation: he
lost all imme persocetive. peespec-
tive which can only be gained (it
must be said in all fairness to the
weiter) by hiadsigat: in short, be-
Cause of his intense Personal iater-
est in the matter he allowed hin-
self the expensive and unwise hix-
ury of becoming quite petty in his
analysis of the supposed impending
crisis between the Stams and the]
‘Neo-status. Tt must be said that
he writer of his document was more
than probably still suffering frou
an intense fecling of insecurity due
to. the recent date at which his
group had become a Status state.
- vir—ieehings of insecurity: —wert
not entirely unfounded though, as
Certain facts will prove.

T have mentioned the recent orig-
in of the Status state from which
this writer came. As he mentioned
in his document, the Central Gov-
ernment from time. to. time_atlow-
ed the organization of a new Siatus
state as the need arose. Prior to
the organization of the particular!
upstart” state of Wiich We was a.
anember, it was felt by the Central
Government that it was indeed time
to allow a new group of Non-status
individuals to assume Status posi-
tion, Consequently, throagh the us-
ual methods employed in such mat-
ters, a new Status state was organ-

ized and, for a time, the Central
Government and the other Status
states felt that a wise’ choise had
been made and that all would be well

Dear

chile could onty see

Hige with which to flaunt himself
hetore the members of the Non-

status, he was incapable of under-,

standing the sincere and honest in-
tentions of the Non-status who or-
ganized this Neo-status_.state_. to
serve the Non-statts and them_only.

in Such a move-
tuent a threat, or so he thought, to
his own so lately acquired position.
He could-not -see hat, in
quarjers, it was felt that emulation
oft Status states was most undesir-
able, since many false~fectings of
superiority and attitudes of sirob-
hishness were sometimes inculcat-
ed ‘in. Citizens of Status — states.
Those who established the Neo-sta-
lus state under the leadership of
the-praphet could not possibly have

{had such aims or aspirations. They

meant to establish a state which
would be completely devoid of such
attittdes, one which would truly
foster will, not only among
Hheiownmembers but also among
outsiders —Vhere—was -no envy ot 1
the group since access to it was easy
and attitudes of the type displayed
by the particular Status group of.
Avhich the writer avas a. menber.
would le cnurely “absent,

neod

Tins the wade Manuseript paint-
er pieture which did not exist.
Vhe older, wiser Status states had
only respect jor the  Neo-status.
They could see only good: in offer-
ing to the Non-status as many of
the good usings they, the Status,
enjoyed as possible. The Neo-status
felt no jealously or hatred of the
Status. They knew it was impos-
sibie for the Status to absorb all
he people of the Non-status how-..
ever good they might be. It was
jor this reason that the Neo-status
was organized. Its purpose, as was
Lsccn in later yearsicdid -motchangé
vor did the conception of its purpose
held by all the Status states excépt
the upstart state change. Through
the years it continued to serve ably
theNon-status groap. The suppos-
ed ‘crisis .did not materialize_and
between the Neo-status and the Sta-
lus existed such a feeling of good
will as could only be founded on the
-good faith and intentions of both
groups,

In commenting on the person
who found and translated this dacu-
ment, can only thank him for pre-
senting a view which now seems’ so

entirely preposterous, He did Jit, no,

doubt, to warn us against anysue

feelings in the future. 1 can only
assume that he presented ifsto show
its utter falseness since no one could
possibly accuse him of ,any such
ieclings in this -matter,

A Citizen of the Status
o a

“You should be more careful to

This feelings, of |

new Status |

complere irresponsibility was the re- |

in that way secure power and pres: —

many |

pull your shade at night. 1 saw you

rkiss “your wife last night’ >
“Ha, ha, ha, the joke is on you;
I wasn’t home last night.”
