Y

-
Page Two

~ THE DAVIDSONIAN |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

e

> PUBLISHED WEBKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR

SAM ERVIN
BOB CLINE

EDITORIAL STAFF

Bob Phillips
Mac Hart:
*Wailter Mann —
Sian Kennett
Bill Calhoun 2
Ronnie Dictrich
Rees Jenkins7Z-
Malloy Owens z.
John Stewart .
Floyd Melean

- Managing iditor

Managing Fditor
. Managing Lditor

wees. Staff Thowceraphier |
Assistant Photographer |~
Feature Reporters: Lob Jlollister, J.onnie Turnip=
seed, Dave Gambrell, Bill DuBose, Bruce Kendall,
Bill Bogart, Charles T, Davis, Nob Wells, Art Jen-
kins.

Freshmen Reporters: Tlartley Tall,

Randy Taytor,

Warren Sims, J’hi] Mitchell, Wall Tlotlister, Scott
Verner, Gray Hampton, Frank Purnell, Tom Ftipse:
Kenneth Jones. Jim—Mteray:- Jim Larkin, Leonard

Boswell. John Cosby, Dave Hayworth, Hugh Evans,
Pat McGeachy,

Sports Staff: Jack Havard, Frank Aldred, Cherry
Stribling. Watt Jefiries, Dill Cassels, Doug Hix, Bill
King, Gene Regan, Dick Morgan, Furman Wartlick.

_ _BUSINESS STAFF °
John MecNair.--.-- -

-Assistant Business Manager

Chartie-Reid .-.---- ---- Advertising Manager
Frank Lemmon, a=) ..caeee- Circulation Manager
Bill Baxter cree Subscriptions—Manager

siant Advertising Algr,
Collections Manager

Charles Clinkscales —
Charles Dockery ~.-.

Wilkes Macauley . stant Advertising ‘Mge.
H, Jeulton 22-2... Assistant Circulation Mer.
Rill Neith 2. TAS istant Circulation Mer.
Sandy Sprunt — .-sistant Circulation Mgr.
Bob Knight __--- _ vseistant Subscriptions Mer.
Charles Beam -.-------. Assistant Collections Mgr.

Advertising Staff
HH. MacKethan, C. Vaisan, Claude Higginbotham,

D, Hayworth, Blaine Netley, Gene: Taylor, W. 8S.
McSwain.

: Circilation, Staff TT
-Paul Guthery, Sam Davis, THIL Cassels, Jon
Coble: Jim Fisher, ob Sims, Jimmy Rogers, Norvei
Childers. Ted Towan, Marray Ashman, Erwin Clark,
Ray Cunningham, ni Mebane,

Entered as aeceond-clavs matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under the wt of Mareh 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RAVES .
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

address .2F 3 fe. thal ADVERTISING OF

National Adys? Hising Service, lac.

Coltexe able ders Representative
420 MAadiSoN AVE. New YORK. N.Y.
Cricavo > Potted s+ Ley ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

_ 1946 Member ~~ 1947
‘Associatacd.Collegiate Press
"Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

_Some Modest
Proposals .
“rid ttoes of -edilor-it

Sinee fssmr

chief of TAL DAY IDS ON1AN last January,
I have had amnle ower: iniry to becewme
acquainted with the problems facing those
who are responsible far seeing to it that this
partigular pubkewsion makes its weekly ap
pearanee. Those of us also Imow weil its
shoricomings. In the hope of being of some
Jelp to the new eilitor und his staff, L should
like to make a few random suggestions and
comments for their furure tefefence, Alay
they be taken for whatever they are worth.

As we atiempted io point-ett 7 an cariier

editorial, one of (ic. inast Serious problems. .

is the lack of an adequate fajl time stall. Xo
one expects the inajcnity of the sindents to,
participate in newspaper worl. -in Fact there
Nvould be su. ficient help if these whose uames
appear in -the .wasihead could contribuze
astieles regularly, It is not that they are
lazy or (hat they Ja: ix interest. It is just that
they don't have time te do so every week.
They might, in sothe cases, he able to do so
if they budgeted thei: time better, but there
js -undee present conditions no incentive to
cause tiein to attempt it. °

It seems that this partic war matter might

be innproved upon im onc of two ways:
Q)) The college could offer classes in forrt--

nalism, givitg extra cred to wWidse who.
parueipe in publications work, or re-

quiring all who take the ‘conrses to do So.

‘Mis conrse. (or -cditises). could he offered.

by an existing department (the English, for
example) or'a new one. i Departinent, of
Journalisnr, could be set tp. 1 am-not ac-
quainted with thecmethods of securing. ini-
structors for such courses, but it might be
— possible to nersuade-the cditor or assoeiate
editor of some_good daily newspaper in the
immediate vieiiity to .widertake the task.
Even.if classes were held only once or twice
each week I feel thal. it would prove to be

particular work.
(b) TILE DAVIDSONIAN could be made
<a‘“paying proposition and those who-are
actually primarily responsible for it—say
the editor-in-chief, the associate, sports aud
managing editors aid certain members of,
the business staff could b be allowed to share

fet

Associate Editor
_---- Sporfs Editor

- Managing Editor

EDITORIALS .

equally fn the profits at the end of the year,

provided of conrse, that atiy were made.
This aight be accomplished by an inerease

in. the advertising rates and the adoption .

hy the stafi of certain more ceonomical prac-
tiees, This seleine is used by snost large col-
lege papers and is apparently very sueccss-
ful. The prospect of sharing profits has a
detinite tendeney to earse the staff members
to work harder and to be more careful about:
costs than they wonld be otherwise, The
amount Which conld be saved would natural-
ly he limited and henee could noi be shared
hy everyone who helped on the paper. It
would have fo be restrieled to the holders of
certain specific jobs, However, it would
tend to increase the number of men willing
to work on the papersand make the com-
petition mueh keener for the ‘‘salaricd”’
posts. Perhaps some well to do alumni. who
jis interested in Such inatters eortld be per-
suaded to. octablish-a-tensi land foe TH
DAVIDSQNLtN so that the staff would
have a definite yeariy sim with which to
- mect operating expenses over and apong ihe
profits realized from advertising, The One
drawback might he the danger that certain
individuals would desire to make personal
profiis so uruch that the qnality of the pub-
lication would be. redueed. Sueh a thing
would ret be likely to ceenr but if in were
—deemed mecessary it could be guarded
against hy establishing a ‘*eciling’? on
profits -- a maxinnnn figure whieh when
reached wonld. terminate the “sharing.”

LETTERS

Miss Ellen, Merry of
Converse owhh Lee Willinghan;
Miss Jackic, Otez of Queens with
Jim Campbell: Miss Lee Dnaughon
of Queens wiih” Will -Klein;
Sarah, Claire Little of Gieens with

Huopie Davis: Miss Ann Bailey of

DELTA THETA PHI _

On Saturday eveniig, April 3,
the Phis had Fleet Green and his
orchestra for theie Bluc and, White
Ball at the Charlotte Policemun-.
(Glub. Preceding the dance a jormal
Sanquet was held with Herb Maler

VTurmipseed:

Miss

as the toastmaster, and Professor) Queens with Andy Vlorne;—-Miss
Revin, the speaker. Tie hall war} Joan Birge of- Queens with Dob
decorated in the blue and white fra- | Hubbell: Miss Gwyan Ewell of
ternity colors and the girls wore} Queens with Joe Miller, Also we
blue dresses and the brothers wore | were glad to welcome Professor
white dinner jackets, Among those} Beven and his wife, and Mr. and
present were: Miss Louise Stacey | Mrs. Scott Verner. .

of Salem with John Hills; Miss Last week Drother Ed Mont-
Dot Hamrick of Queens with Rhea ;eoimery was elected president of

Miss Dot Thomas of
Queens with Heywood Jirinegar:
Miss Vommie Thompson of Queen-
with Jint Cobb; Miss. Jcan, Sloan
of Queens with Frank Hooper:
Miss Ann Peasants of Salent with
Bob Knight; Miss Alice Tucker of
Queens with Bob tong; Miss
Mary Dodgin of Charlotte with
Fred = MeAllister; Miss 9 Kyree
Chesick, of Queens with Ilerh

the chapter: for the coming year,
succeeding Tohn Hills, President
Montgomery will he ably assisted
by (ilk Brownson as reporter, Bab
Long as warden, Bob Flollister as
secretary, and dim Cobb as
treasurer, Tirother  Jarper has
taken over the duties of social
chairman, and Grady Spires the
chofister. 7

‘the Plis were well represented

Adams;

Simos over and above this figure would be
plaeed in the general fund for the next
school yean,

T don’t pretend to know whether or not
these proposals will work. I do tecl that
they are logieal ul least to some extent, and
] know that sotnctiring is going to have to be
done if more progress is to be nade, Many
—iers of reat merit have been presented to us
from tinue to time which could not be
adopted for the reason explained heretofore.
Af the ssiadions diseussed above ov other.
ones of a similar watire are honestly tried
“it is possible that an inadequate staff will
no longer be a real problem, That in itself
would be a. great hey to all tuture editors.

Also T should like to suggest that all stu-
iicnt and college orgunizations make an
chfort te supply the tesa staff With up-to-
“date news, A
directors and these. men have seen to it that
ihe paper_xoeei¥es a wecldy article covering
the activities of their partiewiae group.
Hvery effont is made lor the staet to Icep
| abreasf. of caurgus tinppenings, but often
|
(

\

vertain goings on are overlooked or are not |

known to the reporters, Ry bringing their
own articles to the paper the clubs who
follow.this plan assuee theinselves of ade-
quate aud eorrect’ publicity and while help-

ing theaiselves they also, help those who_

edit THE DAT IDSONDAN,

Regacacess of the, r.cthowds insed. how-
ever, | am convineed that nextiyear will be
one in whien your staff will make every
effort to give. you a better and better cam-
pus newspaper. 1 sin also gure that they will
ehe_ able to count on the whoielrearted sup-
port of every man on the Davidsén campus.

“| Miller;

any Clubs have eleeted publicity |

“Miss Kate’ ATeRelway, oF
Queens with Ld Montgomery:
diss Ann Wicker of Salem with
Bill Montgomery; Miss 9 Mary
Bryant of Salem with Morris
Newell; Miss Paddy [laskins of
Raleigh with Bill Smith; Miss
Nell Smith of Salem with, I’.
Sniith; Miss. Carolyn McGuirk -ol
Hollins with Sam Tate; -Aliss Con-
nic Ditto of- Queens with ¢l.annic

loading the list were Whit
fobb, Rob Ualmer, Dick Mills and
Rill Iverson, Others seeking _ new
acquaintances on the “fair campus”
Lambeth, Flubbell, Verner,

night.

were
Laub,
discovered a new queen at
Queens, Also among the big deals
were the brothers who journeyed
(Continued on Page Four)

has

Cinema Comments _

" By WALTER MANN
» The biggest news on the cine-
ina front is that the local enter-
lainment palace has heen purchased
by some foreign power. The Stough
dynasty no longer. holds tbe. title
to the amusement monopoly in the
holy dity. It is rumored that the
new owner of the Davidson

English production Surpasses
American productions. Of course,
this, statement is actually no
recommendation, since most Ameri-
~i Lions. camnat. oompete.
the difference in quality
tonid he traced te the motive for
froductions—Hhe—Hnglish -eele -to
ter plans certain improvements for]}eive the publie a movie, The
his establishment. In fact some tale Americans seck to move We public

Perhaps

“Phea-

at the Gineens dance last Saturday)

Davis and Pritchett. Hloopie |-

—|-were. like the present United Na-

Friday, April 16, 1948

“OS

FEATURES
Operating Table: ..

Dual Newell, the double
lover should .be able to forget it
enlircly, Said Morris, “If one
woman is heaven, two are heaven---
‘To which Miss Bryant replied,
“Isn't this heavenly weather we
are having?" All of which leads
was none other than that sweet]us to the speculation that if Miss
Suzanne, the R, M. Sorcercess WhO | Bryant finds out, he is going ts
finally defined a way in which tO] need that sword and shield that he
brips young Jake crawling to7the Thar te mporarily loaned out, -

unanimous. choice,. the new) wontan,
man of the Pan, J, Ds Ashmore.
was chosen man of the week, Mr.
Ashmore, whose abundant supply
of Wildcat: spirit: ordinarily’ keeps
him about as ferocious a lion
Believe. it or not, it

ay

ly."
as

was subdued.

door. The two greatest nature lovers

Several other gentlemen accom-|.f the week are undoubtedly Ed
panied the lion-hearted Jake to} West and Phil Cox Of course, a
Randolph Macon, among them] good thing can be carried too iar.
noné other than our own Martin Everyone agreed it was all right

Martini Waters. Mr. Waters is re-
ported ‘to have had quite an adven- |
turous time. roaming from one
sorority “coke” party to another.
George Macky Grimball tagged
along behind Jake and = Martin.
That he tagged along behind
Martini until he headed for they
sorority houses, Said_George later.
“If theres’ anything T can’t staad
it's a coke party, Thar jist ain't
my idea of a party.”
In times past it has been cus-
tomary to give space in this column
both to those who have by the
travels made Davidson famons on
some other campus than our own
and ‘to those who have forgotien

for them to go to the zoo instead
of the K. A.’s fresh air outing. Very
tow. of_the Davidson followers of
R. EL Lee were willing for them®
to bring the zoo to the party. P. B.
Richardson was overheard making
the following statement when the_
«wo aforementioned, gentlemen en-
tered with their pets not even on
feash, “Vin getting me a gun and
a@ guide and going hunting.”

Tail man Bill Johnson says he
is really rolling it in these days,
or rolling in it, we aren't. sure
which, Awyhow, he says that the
clothes horses are keeping him in
it. In other words

Is

re

L if you want a
suit of the finest Yiddish Moth-

about Davidson entirely in their | P™
new loves... Ii one can partial'y | tair, see Johnson—this is a paid
forggt Davidson because of ore | advertisement by Bill Johnson,

Think It Over

By MAI MALLOY OWEN

MARRIAGE: uo level. If we are to have peace
| with justice, we must have a

government strong enough to

enforce law and insure that
justice and peace. Now is a
time for Americans to use
their heads and think on “these

things which belong to peace.”

‘Why not have a course next
year'in “Marriage and all its
aspects,” with enough sections
for all who want it? And why
not try to get Dean Godard of
Queens to come up one day a
week to help teach it. That
man has a very rare knowledge
and understanding of people.
such a course.-would be “an
education in itself” and a prac-
tical one.

NO COPS
Suppose there were tio laws ancl

Our world community, now be-
come so small needs a police force
-cantrolled-by the people’s elected”
representatives, But more basically,
we need a_world citizenship with
a_high respect for the other man
and his property, for justice, and

no, police enforcement in this | for freedom. But this would re-
county? or in your hometown? | duire changing human nature, Only
How long would you and your the Christian Gospel has been able

—praduce—this—transformed—man—
Our world needs a govern-

ment, but its chief need is an
—inward rebirth. Through our

anvily-be-safetOrsuppeseea!
state, and ~ tational

Povernments

tions, could. only _ “recommend.

carriers even say that lic plans to [To give then re
install seats. However, this seems] AH of which has—nothing” to de
to be a needless expenditure which |with the incrits of * Great Expecta-
would cause'a rise in the cdst of | tions."- However, it be a
movie tickets,, so it.is doubtful | sood movie.

whether such a change will take ——Wednesday and Thursday
place. The new owner does 7 “SAIGON” :
promise, however, that if he is un-| Saigon is cerived from the Rus-
able to install seats, he will install} sian ‘saiga, The saiva us a sheep.
posts so that everyone. will have | like antelope that hops in and out
somethifig to lean against. ~ of the salt mines of southern
Certain other improvements seem | Siberia and Kassin. Mr. Alan badd
to have taken place with the change | ative hops in true antelop fashion.
in ownership: We now have some- [Comrade Veronica Lake exhibits
thing shown besides the festure-Mc—bihe rue Siberian sentiment and
ure and the news, After havin? | dc oies herself to the .common
seen some of the short subjects this way of Hie. G. everything «is
week, however, 1 ant inclined. tO] jeid in cofimon-—Aliss T.ake, since
question the term .amprovement, iits this deseription could not
Also a service has been instatled he otherwise, Mr. Laddin (not to
which will practically render—thia lye oniused witke his foil Aladdin)
column useless. The management | finaity

should

'
sic

pockér change”

that certain laws be obeyed. Cey“}
tain ‘influential persons could not
be punished, even if convicted of
murder, unless they, themselves,
agreed with the judge.
Ridiculous? Yet this state of
anarchy prevails in world af-
fairs today. There is no gov-
, ernment abdve the national

Congress lets work for a re-
vised and strengthened UN,
with real power to prevent
war. Through our Churches of
Protestantism let us work for
the conversion of men at home
and abroad to the New Life
in Christ Jesus, through Faith
in His shed blood.

‘WHAT’S WHAT

AMONG AMERICAN COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

By REES JENKINS

Out of The Battalion from Texts jtcll you that I've never taught this
A.&M, comes an interesting classi- [| course before, but 1 feel sure (ha(

finds the Yorge that fused | fication of professors

It is not all}

ha) that if we work together we'll

profitable_to_all students interested in this |

has actually started showing’ pre-
vues of the coming movies. Such @
service as this would nullify the
usefulness of this column entirely
if it had ever had any usefulness.

And now having discussed cur-
rent events, we come to that de-|
lightful part of—our cobunir ain-
which we seek to give cach movie
a little boost to help it overcome
.the unfair criticism aimed at at by
the movie-going public.

Monday and Tuesday
“GREAT EXPECTATIONS”
Enter English drams again!

The producers realiring thai for a
good picture they must have a good

An Open Letter to All

Betore Stepping aSide to make room for

the newly elected editor, I should like to

| lake this opportunity to voiee my deep ap-

preciation tv those who huve worked with

me during the past three months, To name

em ail wanid he impossible, but 1 want to

~publieally thank, those who have borne ‘the
principal burdens,

First. to Boh Philligs, inte whose shoes T
stepped with many misgivings last January.
T wish to express my thanks both for the
privileges of being able to. edit_ THE

i

DAVIDSONEAN and for his continued novel for a pase: naturally thes
Rvica =anatat: . y . chose__ah English novel, Alu.
advice, cooperation, and support, Bob, nore Dickens’, no less As usual ‘this

than any othe: ian, is responsible for ihe _-

the golden sickle and he inime-
diately backs tis wayt oul of the
salt mines into a new and joyous
life with Miss Veronicavitch.

This should be a good movie.

‘Friday and Saturday J
“ERIDE GOES WILD”

Van fohinsen has Jat dast Tounc
a rolé-suitahble to his talents—that
of the author of blood curling bed-
Ume stoties. for insomnia victims.
dune Allyson, blue eyes, et al, is
iWusirator or illustration de-
pending on what you are trying to
iltustrate. Naturally Van gets the
woman in the ead -it wouldn't be
a good movie W he didwl' It prob.
ably wony be very goad anyway.
On_the. other hand this wilk prob-
ably be a good movie.

an

improvements whieh have been shown in
the paper this yeas: do him the entire schdol
owes a debt of gratitude,
* The backbone of any publication is its |-
staff of managing aad Sporis editors, For-
tunately, TIE DAVEDSONIAN has been
“well stocked?’ in this department. Bill Cal-
hown, Ronny Dierriek. Mae Hart, Stan Wen-.
nett and ‘Gopher’? Mana have worked hard
and Jong and they deserve a Cord of credit
Tor the fine jobs whieh: they have done.
-Aimong the other sfidents who

Who dod you think is

Faculty and
Administration

HENRY WALLACE
‘JOHN. L. LEWIS

ne

merit

3. NO OPINION
special recognition are Bob Cline, the ef- 4. ROBERT TAFT
ficient business manager: Charlie Reid, John 5. CAESAR PETRILLO

Frank Temmou, and their

(Continued On Page Four)

MeNair, co-

now living in the United States?’

The Poll-cat

By BAVID SONIAN

the most dangerous man

Students

JOHN L. LEWIS
HENRY: WALLACE
“CASH” JACKSON
ERROL FLYNN
“PLYBAIT” PIERCE

~ HARRY TRUMAN

1
I

pe Ssener

inclusive but it is a good ‘start and
one way to fill space. After attend-
ing classes.of many professors the
writer comes forth with this:

1. Jingle jangle jingle type. These
are further subdivided into the key
jinglers, coin clitikers, and chain
twirlers.. This type has developed |
a fine technique of shoulder shrug-
ging avhich is used to point to’ stu-
dents, blackboards and any good-
looking babe who -passes on the,
pwalk outside the classroom. This
type is hard on his trousers pockets
corte 10 Support has to he re-| Fool editions of their paper. Caro-
ci aa ener pene met ah teal he
wimply to hold them up. The | Phi Daily Var Hearst with much
eta Kappa key men are. ox ep coverage of morbid events occuring
tionally good at chain twirling. eefz]on the campus.-The College Topics

threw a thrill into the gentlemen

2. Here we have the “J.ittle. Ni- | of Virginia by slipping in a story
poleon” or “Gosh, but you're stupid! of the entrance of 2,000 coeds next
type.” One of these is “convince! year. No fooling, though, this
that the students are dumber, it crowd preferred Truman by 70
possible, than the year before. He | per’ cent in the next elections. The
is distinguished by his bored, what Virginians are planning to convert
goad will it do, half contemptous | their paper to a daily this month.
altitude toward his class. When Glen Grey backed down

3. Aht The “Mumbles” type |] from playing opposite Eddie
This. yroup-is distinguished —by - its-Duchin. for their frolics this week-
habit of conducting all lectures in} end, they signed up Xaver Cugat.
an inaudible monotone. The sheer Sonie__enterprising students at
beauty of. this ig that it so ei-| Carolina and also Virginia have a
tectively protects.the profis profes-t.- ‘thriving beer - delivery service -on —
sional standing. After all, how. can | their campuses.
anyone criticize what he hasn't ‘Phis is the election season all
heard. over and ‘the collegian’s really go
The apologetic type is found] for it. Down at Alabama there are
out on the first day of class. Typi-|no parties (political parties, I
cally jell say: “Men, I'd like tol - ‘(Continued on Page Four)

get something out of it.”

5. Last, ‘but probably not all, is
the story-teller type. Stories are
of inconceivable scope, but often
they are war stories. After spending
all classtime on his tale he'll assign
a_quizz_on the stuff he was sup-_
posed to cover.-for the next ses-
sion, .

It may interest sdnite® ‘to know
that “Drummer Boy”. Krupa is
signed up at Emory on May 7 and
8. Will he get there?

Many colleges put out April's

