_FRID: AY, OCTOBER 8, 1948

PAGE TWO. _. THE DAVIDSONIAN

lhe DAVIDSONIAN Presents -

EDITORIALS LETTERS .. FEATURES

AMONG THE GREEKS Political Angles

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

8

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

“In September of 1946 the Faculty was
COLLEGE YEAR

requested to make some modification in the
restriction of cars in favor of the older stu-

MAC HART i DVTOR-IN-CHIEF

humanitarians were Brother Jabels

By JIMMY HENRITZ and HENRY HANSEN

College Publishers Representative

420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.

Crieaso - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCIBCO

1946 Member 1947

Associated Collegiate Press
“Distributor of

Collegiate Digest

VY TING. COMPANY

DAVIDS:

Automobiles o or Not .

cars on the
to the
Ad-

Davidsonian

Since the Cure stion of eping
Davidson campus

attention

again come

and the

of the

ministration; the Iditors ot

have devoted th pace to the thorough con-
sideration of this 1 I our catnest in-
tention to delve into ¢ pect of this situa-
tion and to delir y the position of
both the Student Bod 1 the Faculty,

ATo begin \ let us consider the Student
Body's stand on the subject. We place the
views of the student first as they are the more
easily outlined. We believe we tare reasonably
accurate in tating that a majority of the stu-
dents are of the opinion that the less restric-
tion imposed; the better. It-is felt by the ma-
jority that the unrestricted use-of autmobiles
adds to the comfort and convenience of the

entire group—this consideration should be of
primary import to the Faculty
the issue, la
students believe that they,
ble of dealing with the siti
vision. Thus far, in referring to the Student
ody, w the This
is because there a number of students wha
consider cantrol or
an essential measure.

In setting forth the position of the Faculty
we would make clear at the outset that the fol-
lowing information has been. obtained from
discussion with members of the
ference with Dean Badey, and a consideration
of past policy. ‘hese views represent a sum-
mation or an interpretation, in our own words,
of the problem confronting the Administration
and its attitude toward that problem.

in deciding upon
percentage of
ais a group, are capa-
tation without super-

In short, the

e have uséd term majority.
are

limitation of this privtlege,

Faculty, a con-

Of primary importance is the fact that the-

members of the Iaculty regard the question
of the unrestricted use of automobiles in the
light of its, effect upon two distinetly different
groups of students—those twenty-one and
over, and those under twenty-one,
(a) The Administration’s policy in regard to
men twenty-one and over is best expressed
_ by Dean Bailey’s open letter to members of
this group. We quote: Sat

“To students over 21 who wish to keep

motor vehicles at Davidson:

munity. Exceptions will be made for those oc:
casions when there are special social functions
on the campus.”

(B) There are a number of factors which
the Administration finds it must consider in
selecting the wisest course to follow in the mat-
ter of car privileges for men under twenty-one.
Many of these factors rarely occur to, or come
to the attention of the members of. this-group.

The general nature of these factors is as
follows:

(1) The Administration feels a definite
responsibility to the parents of men under
legal age, who send their sons to Davidson
expressly for the purpose of providing them
with an atmosphere conducive to study and the
development of high moral character, This is the
aim of the vast majority of the parents sending
their sons here to college.

(2) It is also true of these parents that
they, for the most part, hold the college re-
sponsible for the privileges accorded these
men, many of whom are insufficiently mature
at. the ages of eighteen, nineteen, and some-
times even twenty, to accept complete lack of
supervision,

And_ finally,
again:

(3)“It is probable that when more students
have cars, still more students will wish to have
cars. Many parents of Davidson students would
find the cost of a car and its upkeep burden-
some, others would*find it an impossible under-
taking, Possession of cars on the campus by
all students who could afford them would tend
to emphasize in @ very obvious manner the dif-
ferences in financial background among the.
students. The Faculty desires tg maintain on
the campus an atmosphere in which the in-
dividual student stands on the basis of his
personal worth rather than on the basis of what

we quote Dean Bailey once

he owns.

(4) “Younger students living in groups
are often put under pressure by their acquaint-
ances to use their cars to go places and do
things which they might not do if they were
not living away from home under dormitory
conditions.

(5) “The Faculty feels that it is not un-
reasonable to require that the students have

achieved some greater degree of maturity be--

fore Being given complete freedom in the use
of cars.”

We feel that this policy, though weak in
one instance in particular —the fact that
Seniors under twenty-one do not have the. un-

‘restricted use of cars—is the best _ solution

possible to the complex problem of automo-

biles on the campus. We have been given

reason to believe, however, and this is im-
(Continued on ‘Page Four)

en E, B. in the last Davidsonian!

PHI DELTA THETA

Before’ proclaiming the various
exploits of our illustrious brothers,
we want to extend a hearty wel-
come«to our sagacious pledges and,
with confidence in their future
wheeling ability, to cordially in-
vite them into the famed columns
of “Among the Creeks.’’ This same
hospitality is also extended to
Brother Mitchell Smith, a returnee,
and Brother Al Cook, a transfer
from our good neighbor, Emory
University.

Going back a few days, we wel-
come with glad eyes the visit of
Brothers John Hills, Floyd Martin
and Ed “Mullethead” Sutton, who
were with us a few days during

that hectic but greatly rewarded
week, It was great to see them
again, It seems that Phi Delta

Theta willl never be without its
famed “fish cranium,” for the gods
have planted in our midst the off-
spring, perhaps, but certainly not
the counterpart of the original, in
pledge Ed Sutton.

Turning to our own geekish,
oops, we mean Greekish,- warriors, |
clothed in the familiar blue and
white, and red, and orange, and
purple, and black, and what have
you, we find that much wheeling,
reeling, and dealing has taken place
over the week-end.

The ~Brownson-Patten
Company, .consisting of
Brownson, ‘“Patty-cake’ Patten,
“Crook” Cook, “Hardrock’’ Hub-
bell, and “Blowtorch” Bowen, suf-
fered a financial blow Saturday
night, although the button mag-
nates say they “practically’
broke even at the W&M game.
Nice going! @

After the upset, Brother “Horse
Pistol” Smith headed a delegation
for the bowery section of the
Queen City in search of his long,
Idst uncle who, unknown to Harris
P., is a famous painter. Among the

sutton
“Brains”

his ecstacy. It was only after in-
tense questioning that “Rudolph”
would consent to give us a state-
ment, He said, dnd we quote,
“Everyone was feeling merry, and
a good time was had by all.”

Over in the Queen City our
pledges dominated the spotlight by
attending en masse that affair of
all affairs, the Queens-Davidson
freshman dance. Among the young
lovers present were Pledges ‘Tay-
lor, Sutton, Bacon, Cumbie, Clark,
Moses, Lazenby, Huffacker, and
Fields. It was reported that one
comely lass even tried to kiss “old
Rusty,”’ but he escaped in the end.

It. was indeed good to have
3rother Sam ‘Tate back with us,
along with the famed “Big Blue,”
even though it was for only a few
hours, We never did discover how
he managed to play golf at night.
Or was it golf?

PI KAPPA ALPHA’

Taking advantage of the open
date in the football schedule last
week-end, brothers and pledges of
Pika took to the road traveling
from Virginia to South Carolina for
various reasons, most of them being
fratenization with the fairer sex,

Brothers Ensign,-Cameron and
Hayden contributed their several
talents to the delight of W.C, belles.
Cameron was seen sitting at the
check-out desk in one of the dormi-
tories. When asked about this, he
replied, “You know, you meet more
beautiful women that way.” This
trio reported that on the road to
Greensboro, they passed by
Brother Dockery, who was heading
homeward in his ’31 Ford Fordor
Deluxe, in no apparent mechanical
trouble. Brother Grube, in keeping
with his Cross Country team train-
ing, ran down to Rock Hill to en-
tertain his true love. The biggest
news is that the Newbold brothers,
Pledges Harper and Raynor, met
with such success at Presbyterian
Hospital Saturday night, that.they
are opening an agency which will
take care of all arrangements for
those Davidson students wishing to
date the women in white. Brothers
Mills and McNair seem to be form-
ing a very pleasant habit of travel-
ing the distance to Converse each
week-end, as they were at it again
last week. Brother Reese paid
visit tos alem Academy, and reports

(Continued Qn Page Four)

United States?

STUDENTS
Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt
Miss Julia Passmore
Jane Russell
Clare Booth Luce

Ist Choice
2nd Choice
3rd Choice
4th Choice

The Poll-cat

By CHARLIE REID

~ Who is the most dangerous woman now living in the

FACULTY & ADM,
My Wife
Dorothy Thompson
Little Orphan Annie
Clare Booth Luce

This poll proves very little other than the fact that the

Students and Faculty do have one:thing in common...

JOHN McNAIR BUSINESS MGR.| dents. It was understood that the older stu- The biggest event of the week- and Jabels Witherspoon, rita While the foreign situation has)alone is of enough consequence to
: sare : + i ° * San q “Re 9, Pg or 4 a a] : cana’ [is
EDITORIAL STAFF dents wished these privileges primarily to be | end was the marriage of our illus-|5mith, and esAtacdd east staat) lost none of its importance the in-| make a knowledge of the three ma-
Stan Kennett \ssociate’ Editor Ao ld tee Oe Pee) a] vee een eae eet tewave “tt er rea alice terest of the nation has naturally | jor parties’ platforms important, not
otan: Rennett ..----. ane n nnn nnn =  ANSSOCIE A} rye te Wi yever, t seems 1a rother i : } A R ° pais
Bill Cathoun _....... Associate Editor] from the campus, and. for similar purposes. {son, to Miss Billie Rose Becker- Sai ae eee trange|swung to the coming November!to mention the intelligent: thinking
rhs ACHR “f ait e j . at-l- Oo Ss : s a : A; a ; re . : : ren ; ss
routs eee : ae ant. Pea eits Editor The Faculty granted students over 21 the eke AGATE Te BY nappa was burdened with a don- elections. Since our interest is at) which will be engendered by such
Veudle rail so ------------ Ah N Stee 231] en * _ ; " ‘ e he seh ; ‘ we may » some oy id) a knowledge, we are going tov pre-
*Bob Hollister ~~~ eos ---- Managing Editor] privilege of keeping cars during the past two were E. B, Hunter, Frank Niblock,|key, and Raphael wanted to knock home, we Huey fas an rout i ih ss ah at An “ite nite
meas Hieeeet gine Edi Poe : me, B00 i Ets i 5 internationally rine is period, se Sane ollo gs ‘les
varbil ly ye ANAEINE a a years on the condition that the student keep his | ws, Swain, Bill Lander, Phil[it off. Harris refused the offer, pre- Heil cee ar ICE FIR GeRVHOHE GEC ATR ADEE: HaPTIGL
CUR een , arn i : , ; Ros ‘ : iy wy. |of intense politicking. 20) Ve pos 8 é E
Dick Morgan - ; e Managing Editor] grades at a satisfactory level, that he not over- | Willer and Hunter Boykin. We all|ferring some other night, oe hand the outeOme of the elections) on various questions of importance.
aoe peek “a8 : ate SES e STG cut any required college exercise, and that he | extend our best wishes*and_ sin- bie ar Al elle appt a will have a profound effect on the, Mine topics will be taken up; these
i Hig cess ¢ reety tp) see: : : 2 it safe- | Raphae rought it a “matter o : , 4 ; ; : : —
GuaiitecReed epee Poll-Cat| keep out of disciplinary difficulties. These stu- cerely hope that they made it safe fe tb foreign situation both in an imime-jare: Foreign Policy, Communists,
--- ; A ly to that little South Carolina} OPI0n. liate and a lasting sense, For in-| Civil Rights, Inflation Labor
FEATURE REPORTERS Malloy Owen, Randy} dents were requested not to use their cars to awa : Up on Tobacco Road, Brother | “ate and 4 Arne ense, Ie Rel aa eaten ch aaneee oer carrie
“ya Pit Mitchel TIRO RETA! . : y 5 ith- ~ PT pea} . eae stance, several authorities claim) Agriculture, Business, “ducation,
Ravens ‘dail, Bae CMe: a Sua re ae go from point to point on the ete aH (Ole with We admire the spirit of our}‘Smiley” Hollister, “Rear Adams, diesaaiin will await the outeome! and Housing. Following is a sum-
3oyce Kendall, Bob Gr ind Warren Sims. ° : . : : ‘ ; : isle “Tahele” C mie : , | Hat ote Als by 5 Na teadroe ; MALY
REPORTERS ty Henritzy, Henry. Hansen,| in the community. For a time this request was | Pledge Ben Dryman in his futile|and “Jabels Cobb added still more} iio ceetions with quite as much} mary of the first three:
Perry Gregg, Harry Shurley, Gab Lowe, John A “te observed reasonably well; during most of last | attempt to spend the past week-|glory to their already famous} i in this eountry. be FOREIGN POLICY:
the t Saloly Robitisc om Jick ase : Sine : . 2 . ack » Besides com-4> =e ere rv aaa
houn, Ken ! Ral i 1 hritas n. aes peu atty year a limited number of students began to |end in Florida. Sorry to hear the brothers back home, Besides com CARE iis Plena TOR eTAICTIA” AVAY AVillnteeariitetieGieandaies
Barnwell, t. AMIN die eeU LRN ec Ady Daan ; ie js trip came to. such a screeching] pletely snowing three  Voluptous sca . ca iy Naciat ak FUHT iitrs ice nae
Bob Hubbel)! Metra fom Mann, Bill Cum-| yiolate it rather consistently. S : ; now, later, or not at all will bej sia share “joint responsibility’ for
“5 se at ‘ay ; Ancus McKellar M4 , ; halt, Ben. Better luck next time. damsels from Meredith, they rose irae ie ate ; hint aueaaiae ; is {
ming, Phil Libby, Ven | DET EICRIHOIIR The Executive Committee at its meeting ; ‘ definitely —iniltfenced by who is | Vending the tragic prospect 0
Dudley Pendleton, Jinn Fricke nN, Pete Kologides; Re f ij 3 et eta ae Lover Lander and Hair-cut Mc-]|to heights unseen by standing alone elected, and by what policies are} war.” Situation demands “negotia-
Dick Chandley, boo No tt, Stuart Shippey, esi on October 13,. 1948, will—it is believed— | Swain were a little more fortunate|as the only survivors within a 30- oF ve Se AERA Ail (CLG RRR ETAL LACTIC fe
ffaker, Lewis Hy1 Prank Winston and Bi POSE ue ES Tot on ; . . . : Nine ile radius Shape ii rte ee Spcrae certian s AESOU i ens : 4 °
eure Sue agree to extend these privileges to men over |in their travels to the South. They aL radius of Chapel Hill who], i snistration, Since Yhis. fact (Continued Of Page Four)
aoe ne 21 again this year under conditions similar to | seem to have made it to Converse] Were not eters he iy Sedan SAR to EEE er
SPORTS STAT F—¢ ng, Gordon Scott, : $7) more or less non-stop. that swept out from liquidous place
inh 1a iv hilt » Frank se shic »y were grante st year AN : , i
Furman Warli } Vey Ms) lil those under wes wey . ; petite Uae y Having spirit and going South Phe handsome faces of — the 2
Winston, Bryan Robeyon. Don Meleithan, David) With the exception that it is to be understood seemed to be in vogue with nearly | wearers of the blue and white were Imema onaments
Thitener, Ed We ji s H : J
W He ace ind that the use of a motor vehicle to go from everyone, especially the pledges.| seen throughout the South on past By BILL CALHOUN
CIRCT ah l It Be a ? | Reet rane point to point within this community will be Over at our highly under-rated sis- week-end, although the Vhi Delts’ ; sae
rks alton i s LOSES, bs * ¥ am . yet sare ‘ rT)
roe Miller Neill | Mi lo lonmy. Haller,| regarded as grounds for withdrawal of these | ter institution Saturday — night,] activity centered chiefly around the Monday and Tuesday j married,
| Miller, Mae Parle (aecieh a 5 F french-| well-known female institutions of]. The guy Who tanned ‘Gilda’ | Wednesday and Thursday
John Hardin, Thad M: Hugh Huffaker, Ben srivileces, numerous Freshmen and French-| we gu)
Morris, Cam Faison,’ Paul Guthry: : ebhe ; hief reasons for this last Menicten men were seen waltzing with the| Salem, Converse and Queens. melts Millie, as Glenn Ford goes; “Another Vart of the Forest"
ne chief reasons for s las 3 ; sig ay ; joss . : ae Vee erdesriaait
: many lovies at the DC-QC dance. Although the events jn the Twin fabout the business of the mating} \Ithough this picture was made
, mee BUSINESS Sas er 3 McSwain are as follows: Several of the happy faces seen] City seem shrouded in mystery,| of Evelyn Keyes. We can be rea-| from a Broadway hit of fair quali-
Circulation ‘Ma : Bilt ‘Houck “1, The unrestricted use of cars within the | there belonged to the bodies of] several reports have it that “Charm-|sonably sure that the average Da-|ty and stars Mrederie March and
a ik ; . : . ” ow Biliaet : fainil-| , inion
: | os Till Cassels} community by men over 21 makes the en- | Luke Hyman, Bob Murray, Guy}ing Chas.” Varker, the Shiek of] vidson student is thoroughly famil-)| Ann Blythe, popular opinion. seems
ane BAP amet forcement of the rule affecting men under 2] | Dardel, Bill Henning, Cecil Rhodes Salem, supplied several séns of Pal- iar with the mating process from} to hold that the world would be
ENA eres Ne ROA E _ Te ractic Aled . and Harold Clayton. las with voluptuous damsels from |liis studies in previous schools he} just as well off if the picture ¢had
Bs : ‘ me ROTTS ¥ P a qi ourneying still further south were] his private harem. No details have} has attended, It is said that the} been left in another part of the
Collections: Manas. . s Dockery The facilities of the campus are not ‘ See |
ftir Subseriptiéns Manager to 2 es Pledges Parks Dalton and Ben] been obtainable as yet, but we as-| birds and bees know of this also,| woods. Inter these woods at your
John Leftin i ; pice B' : '
i ; Ic : ys ne considered to be adequate at “the present | Morris. Both reported that Myrtle} sume that fun was had by all who} or as one “Mann-act’ Mann puts} own risk,
ADVERTISINGsSTA Cumming, Bill Hart, ; ati ai MY P ; e ’ : see tiree yl F
NEteeEDalinner oka farshall James, Ray-| time for the use of a large number of cars. was “kinda void” of female forms] partook of the “Shiek’s” génerosity.| it “Dogs Do It.’ The makers of Friday and Saturday
mond Hollan Wall i | Clayton, Sam “In view of the fact that the Executive | at this time of the year. Down in Spartanburg, the events| this picture claim to have. intro- “Silver River”
\l r, Duval Hunter, t ; ‘ wa ; ; re jere scure, ¢ ge F ny ae eolel Sagat) ioh class wester ith sex u
Cumming ! ’ : Committee has shown its willingness to permit And even further South went] were not so obscure, als those that | duced some new kind of “ki to| 9A high class western with sex ap
ji t : ‘rs at any time t aw from Brother Cassels. Bill is still hold-]engaged in the activities down] couple with even the honey cooler | peal for both sexes (as well as neu-
econd-class matter at the Post Office at ACARE Ase) GETS Cue Cbs teh WAU Use). (40) C8 ing the same course—straight for] there brought back many tales} kiss (‘long and sticky but oh so} ter). Errol Miynn-is dis usual self as
Entered as sec ere he ‘ait Sore g . ; 5
Davidson, North Cari or the art of March 3, 1897. and rettrn-to- the community, with -no-restric- Breneau, and we can’t say that we} of tovely—maidens and: numerous sweety —P tis isthe siting kiss t—“dastrine—robber—baron—aeche
tions as to when or how frequently they may | blame him. Be tae ceo awit Klein, autre You may witness this at the Davyid-|dashes-after Ann Sherridan, a beau-
. cr . * ot “4 a eis itherspoon, an u- =e bee ; ° . one ss
SUBSCRIPTION RATES be used, we feel that we are not being un- Brother Sinclair paid us a visit HoIdhe Valentines Canipbell; were | Son Cinema. Two choice quotes} tity! Southern belle “Phe publicity
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year reasonable in asking you to cooperate with us’ | during the earlier part of the week.| among those engaging in the ai-| {from the picture: “get into some- men classify Miss Sherridan as eye
in not creating unnecessiry problems by using Without the better half though.] fairs of that fair place. “*Rudolph”} thing more comfortable like| filling; lrrol was left: unclassified.
a SS 5 ° , f. $ 7 Ritaes ; ( ie
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY SOCHORERRTROIH IG ah: per Facrn Maybe next time, Pete? nee MH Att Remit) ae oes a: my arms” and “L never kiss single |! Vhis is a rip-roaring western if there
es ¢ = ar rs y . 2 g “4 ays .
National Advertising Service, Inc. Ser te Oe at eee : One more thing—check the hair | oiiof from aren a day oes ‘Hs women . . they're too cager to get} ever, was one, and there was.

the
Davidson

With

Many and nefarious
and of

men over the past week-end.

were

deeds misdeeds

were forced
with

woods

of Marshall Ney
contend themselves
along deserted
young lady

Some men braved
and went out to
and, after the proper
the were allowed
form a hybrid between the
and cavotte to the strains of several |
scratchy

frolicking
with the
choice,

of their

social’ ridicule }
Queens College, |
introductions
dean,

to to per- |}

fox trot
records melodiously
produced by a juke
vintage (1926). Of
of the new “frosh’ who were guided
to this sad end by Judge

Unfortunately for the
was so busy getting the
the freshmen who were
that he could not take
off with
fairer Other
this week-end
and Bill
cording to reports, Jack
in that vicinity valiantly
pelling a young lady who, “just had

re-
box ss

course, lL sfie: ak
Bingham.
Judge,
names of

he

not present
time
the}
upperclassmen at

much

to hobnob any of

sex.
Queens

were Jack

Etheridge Richard, Ac-

Wits

seen re

no football game.to attend, the sons |
to}

lastes |

last |

Operating Table

to have that big pin with “the dia-
Jmond in the center,” while Bill
| Richard spent the evening “just
[sitting Ma

| “Hairless TTerbie Meza (you
j know he’s lovely, he uses Pawns)
jtook off for the Everglades of
| Mlorida for an assignation. Unfor-
ftunately, the car broke down on
the way and had to arrive a few
few minutés late,

|
| “Gopher” Mann and Bill Calhoun
attacked Greensboro and took it in
| thirty late last

afternoon. ‘Vhey were

minutes Saturday
admirably
jaupported by other loyal supporters
\like “Physique
| Bill Boyce
| there
Ito the imagination of

| Vill Williams and

ill Fesperman and
Bill Cameron was also
left
reader.

“Gunder”

activities
the
Jack

Gray were off on an extended week-

but his are

|

fend cotton picking spree with the
\8 virls of Converse. Says Gunder,
ie “My back is shore sore.”

| Other men of Davidson also
}spent the week-end profitably, but
they have refused to state where
| they went or what they did.

)

Shewmake, A. B.,

to

Dr.
MM, A, came
in 1919 the
Virginia, and is now in his thirtieth
year of continual. college and

Edwin F.,
Py, 1D)
from

Davidson
University of
uni-
versity teaching.

30rn in Minto, Dakota
now the: State North
but having his
hood in Georgia,

Territory,

Dakota,
child-
he speaks of him-=
self as a Southerner.
out by the fact
moved to Virginia,
the South, while he
boy and his early education was
gained Newport News.. Upon
high school graduation he attended
William and Mary, and completed
his undergraduate work there in
1908. For a few years thereafter he
taught in
schools,

of
spent early
This is borne
that

the
was a young

his family

leader of

in

Virginia secondary |*
holding the
principal of Staunton High School
from 1910 to 1915, while complet-
ing his work for his master’s de-
gree which was presented to him
in 1914 at Columbia University.
The next two Ras were spent as

position of

assistant professor of English’ in
the University of Virginia, and
shortly thereafter he came _ here

where, while teaching, he wrote the

Professors Are Human

By BOB GRUBE

thesis for his doctor's degree and
Was so awarded in 1920 at the
versity

Uni-
Virginia.

During these years of active col-
Dr. Shewmake-has-writ=
articles

al

lege work,

ten various for educational

journals such as
and “Modern
In 1937 for
he contributed a
the Charlotte
“What Ro

proper English

“American

Language
fifty-five weeks
weekly

Speech”
Notes.”
article to
entitled
a work on
With his
Carmer, he has
English text for use

Observer
You, Say,”
usage.
Garin,
an

co-author,
published

in colleges entitled “College Eng-
lish Composition.” More recently
he has written two articles on a

vital question in the South’ for the
Christian Observer under the titles

‘The Race Question in.the South, i
and’ "The Race and
Youth,”

During his tndergraduate days,
Dr. Shewmake became a nmiember
of Pi Kappa Alpha and Phi Beta
Kappa fraternities.

Question
Southern

Here in David-
son he has been active in the Pres-
byterian Church-as a deacon from
1920 to,.1926 and an elder from
1926 to 1937,

