Volume XXXVII

ALENDA

D AV ‘IDSON, NOR’

x: Che Davidson

LUX WB! ORTA LIBERTAS

TH CAROLINA, FRIDAY, DECEMBER

> |

ait ae
\ NEW YHAR

NUMBER THIRTEEN

Student Groups Entertain Barium Children

DAVIDSONIAN INVESTIGATES
RECENT STUD STORE LOSSES
AS STUDENTS DEMAND ACTION

Approximately two weeks ago the following article was pre-
sented to the editorialgstaff of THE DAVIDSONIAN.—-Ht—is
printed here as received with one or two minor alterations.
tollowing this item is the result of THE DAVIDSONTAN’S

thorough and impartial investigation, We urge all student
¢
|

mi fad (CI fal cael hades Scholarship

most of the opinions which have |

Wen publicly expressed ave sme Committee Convene:

the loss t

to give it their full consideration

Stud solely on student dishonesty Phe Rhodes Scholarship Commi
While student dishonesty may be a} tee for the State of North Carolin
primary cause of the deficit, | feel} met last thursday, December 9, i:
that a number of secondary possi-

Chapel Till for the purpose ¢

bilities have been ignored. It is) selecting two applicants for thi
these possibilities which.| want to] coveted scholarship. These two t
call to your attention, with hope] be eifer residents of North Caro
that they may serve as suggestions | lina or out-of-state students stufly-
for a thorough newspaper study | ing in this state.
I think that such a report should | as its chairman, Dr. John R. Cun
ningham, and Prof. Win, Blackbur:

of Duke University served as see

|

ae ‘

and report on the problem. | Phis responsible committee lac
prove valuable for several reasons: |

(1) It will bring to light pone

inefficféncies in store management] retayy, Other members of the com
or will place fall blame upon the} mittee included Dean C. 1. Spuril
student, depending upon the results| of the University of North Care
of the study. (2) In either case the | lina, Mr. Ro oL. Humber of Green
student will feel, as many now do} ville. N.C. and Prof. Ro K. Gooel
not, that full justi

(3) Phe findings of the study may

e has been done. | of the University of Virginia,

Mifteen applicants appeared be-

serve as a guide to the pk inners of | fore the committee to compete for

any future store, the two places open for selection in
NAST rl ’

Feeling, then, that the study is] the state. The young men selected

inportant, | make the following | must be citizens of the United

peestions as possible leads: } States and must be over 19 years

(1) Vhat the loss of $1,000 cach | of age.

month is due solely to student thefts Fach applicant was judged on the

eons impossible, bor this to be] basis of:
tiue it would be necessary for the (a) literary and scholastic
‘udents to pilfer the equivalent of, ability and attainment,

the tollowing items. cach months ; (b) Qualities ot manhood,
W000) Coca-Colas at 05, or 10,000 | truth, courage, devotion to duty,
bars of candy at ,10, or 1,000 pack- sympathy, kindness, unselfish-
apes of wolf balls at $1.00, That any ness and fellowship.

such mass theft takes place is al- (c) Exhibition of moral force
most unbelievable, Ng of character,

2) Considering the amprobabili- (d) bhysical vigor as shown by
tv of No 1 it) would seem interest. in outdoor sports. ot
that a study should be made of the other ways,
accounting and inventory methods Phe heaviest emphasis was placed

of the store on the tirst two of these qualitica-

(3) AS evidence Of mismanaye- ulti é
Ment ie notemtiG: (ollowingies(ay) The Rhodes Scholarship grant at
Brices Ol) jians iteNise (Vi7,0 scliool the present is 400 pounds per year

supplies are not clearly marked, ; Thi at :
unds,. lis would be appro
nono one Stidaht whornotknowalcasum aera cee eNO
mately $2500 as a maxinium.
ing the price of the item, purchased ~

$2.50 tob: uch for $1.50, the an : ‘
Ce fae eRe EUS eA competition were Mr. Nelson F,

sSonented On Page Hop)

price stated by the cashier, — Re

markably enough, the price of the

pouch was on the back of the glass
° i]

Case next to the cash registers One Ch t V

can hardly blame the lucky student, ns mas espers

nor can one blame any student who

eis own pve on sowohed MNSDIFNG Ceremony ”

items. (2) During rush hours, one : ; A
s ; On Sunday evening before a
often stands in line five minutes in
order to pay for his purchases or

ret cha 2, t tudent is’ im- F ute ;
get change, If a stuc torium, the Davidson Malé Choras

and the Concert Band performed in
the annual YMCA Christmas Ves-

patient he is apt to walk out rather
than suffer the delay. Honesty must
be accommodated, not penalized.
(c) Vhe spofiage of milk is un- by the YMCA, the Music Depart-
usually high; if this results, in

ment and the college. It was
loss to the store, it should not be | thordughly enjoyéd by most every-
allowed, At least once I have seen} one in the audience ~which included

half a box of soured milk. (d) The} many visitors from the town. of

general condition of the store--the ; Davidson, Charlotte and other sur-
dirt, the merchandise scattered rounding communities. The per-
about, the clutter of unsaleable items {formance by the singers and the
—is such that one is apt to forget | band was exceptional and very

tliatshe is in a business establish- | beautiful.
ment. Lackadaisical management | The service was started with the
(e) |} band, conducted by Prof. James
Christian Pfohl, playing two pre-
clerks announced in chapel that he |ludes: ‘Lo, How a Rose Fer
Blooming, and “Il Wonder’ as I
| Wander.” With Herb Meza, presi-
dent of the YMCA, and Curtis
other students the employees ot Harper, vice president, participating
the store should not fail to report | in the service with a prayer and
us Scripture reading, the service pro

breeds a careless customer.

have been fold that one of the store

had seen three students leave with-

out paying their bills. More than

dishonesty. : ;
, Bart ceeded with selections rendered by
Such a study by the staff_of the
NAVIDSONIAN would not only | jeadership of Prof. Earl Berg. The
the administration, amd-the man-|carols were: “Zion” Hears — the
Watchmen Singing” from Cantata
“Wacht auf, ruft cens die Stimme,”
; “Catalonian Christmas Carol,’ “Bas-
journalism and a feather in the pa- que Christmas Carol,” “Old French
per’s cap. Christmas Carol,” and “Noel, Noel.”
1 ‘lhe remainder of the program
5 inclyded several familiar Christmas
suegestions are disregarded but 1 .
. : : Pe hymns sung by the congregation,
shall be disappointed if the apathy ending with the benediction by
(Continued On Page Four) President John R, Cunningham.

agement of the store, it would also |

be, in iny opinion worthy, piece of

Il not be disappointed it my

yp) with a supplemental grant of 100

The two winners in this state

large capacity crowd in the beau-
tifully decorated Chambers, Audi-

per Service, which was presented

eut and

the Male—Chorus,under—.the—able

Rev. Broyles Accepts $6,078.32 Gift Fund Check
on) iz

CHRISTMAS GIFT CAMPAIGN — Shown above, from left to right, are Rev. Vernon S. Broyles,
Jr., D. D., of Atlanta, Ga., chairman of the Southern Presbyterian Assembly's War Relief Committee, in
the act of accepting the Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift of $6,078.32, subscribed by students and faculty mem-
bers of Davidson College, from Jack Payne, director of this year’s drive. In a whirlwind campaign spon-
sored by the Y.M.C.A., the goal of $5,000 was oversubscribed by more than 21 per cent,

y JACK HOBAR’™

The nae When “the expression

“Shave and —a haireut, two bits,’
actually meant that the man of dis
tinetion couldshave his mug and fur
patch overhauled for just that price

have faded into the misty past But

that’s what the price was when
Hood Nerton, loool colored barber
bepan the t © hack around 1910

However, the art of quaking: men

look good and pay for it has come
A ANS

a long way. Voday even S Mustomer

like Prof MeGeachy or Dean

Bailey, who is jos

lly referred to

some quarters as “The Skull,” has

pay a higher price for his good

looks, “We charge ‘em partfrice for
cutting it and part for looking for

is the apt summary that Ralph

Johnson, who runs the other local

shop and whose father before him

raved local heads, makes
the subject of the shiny headed

individual.

But with the rise in price over a

NOTICE!

The second chapter in a series
of magazine contests sponsored
by Chesterfield Cigarettes will

appear in the next issue of
Scripts ’"N Pranks, Davidson's

humor magazine.
The names of the winners of
the first contest will appear in

this coming issue along with
the—-new-contest.

It has been requested that

those wishing to enter please
turn in their completed entry
blanks to David Archibald,
Chesterfield campus representa-

tive at “Apartment i01, The

village, or P. O. Box 568. This
contest appears simultaneously
in college magazines through-
cut the entire nation and has
proved interesting as well as
compensating to many students.

Talented Tonsorial Artists No Longer
Give Two-Bit Trims to Tangled Toupees |

Jons period ol Veal i) tie ”
ter service. Barbers 1 1 now i
licensed by the state hop
lave’to meet the sanitar tandards
wid requirement et forth by law
which was passed in 129 aaid has
Deen amended twice nee bn the
words of Hood Norte We runs a
Grade A barber sh Kalpl
lohinson t iid that 4 ero hi
nor Nortan oO er had
any trouble i ecul { tian
dard

Back before the two present shop
existed, Ralph's father ran the local
shop, which wa located where
Raby's Shoe Shop is no Tie those
days everybody. had own shay

ing muy, which

the others on a
|} Water was carried from acro thie

heated by a vas burning

street
contry

Po po back a veneration or so
before that, the little village was

who walked wn from Moores-

ville once a to cut hair and

shave the peasantry, and,

no doubt, a numb of solleve mien

In 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN
carried qn advertisement written
partly in Freneh for one of the local
shearing hor It read: *Chez
"Norton, Le P

Go to an Academic Barber (Master

s de la Chevelure

ot Ponsorial Arts) Norton,
MoT A and was written by a
former professor Dro Rene deVisne
Willianison

But to see the trade from a “bat
ber’s-eye view,” let's imagine that

you are the man in a white coat

j behind the ch: First, a_feHow

j.with Close fitting: eat comes in
}and you try not to nick one of them
| with your razor, but you do and he
Hets you know about it. Then a guy
with wing-like noise catchers plants
himself in your chair. What a temp-
tdtion to streamline him with your

Davidson Citizens

ortce blessed by having a “sealper,’ |

sof heads that humatntty-y

world and going on

FRATERNITIES; CAMPUS CLUB
HOLD SECOND ANNUAL PARTY;
SPREAD CHRISTMAS CHEER

Verily Tsay unto vou, inasmuch as vethave done it: unto
one of the least of these my brethren, ve have done into me
Matt. 25:40. The spirit of this passave of Seripture

much incevidence on the Davidson campus. las tent

mately 160 children from Baritas Springs between the

eM se i ‘ nt na Ca

Development Drive
Being Launched By
Phe daunehing of Davidson's De) tt Ma \ ’ ninant

velopment Provrant will be intiated | le t ! Na

at home, according to an announee

uient made to the student body in?!
the Wednesday morning chapel ex ‘ ta
ereises Phe Davidson-wide cam. | of ‘ ‘ \
paign, which will begin during the) '! eed an \ te t
latter parte of January, has be Vhere on
designated as ‘a previtw to the | part ot most of thet. Sonn Nad
$2,500,000 drive covering the entire Deen here last yea Nal thy t
area served by the colleye were here
Organization plauscare expected rgot thei ‘ rh
lto be completed shortly after the ©! led
Lopening of school following the) Game
Christmas holidtiys in order that the | pated ( I t
campaign may wet undet way as | Hrevthe We
} oon as the second semester begins, told. 4 !
Vhe program. will be carried onein © Hist " Wit ex
two parts the students torming one Crt é In't
roup andthe remainder of the}! ( Ole
commiimnitv. the other. Some di nt dnt Yee { Ile wa
ussion wast raised) concerning the Cast idan
idvisability. of a threefold division | ut gut { B ton
students, faculty, and townspeo- | trom font ! I ( pi
ples but it-was decided that there |! to ! ot nas
ould be no true separation of town | @"! ad been
ind gown in this commrmnity over the Mreplaces mo soe
In order that there may be some PUCHoes, We taken « rand
onerete objective toward whith to pte ete hap | ere
work, each vroup will ehoose- its nay, tru { ‘ iced
own detinite part of the program Mito the n or the ea lest
on which to concentrate its efforts, | Ye om ‘ Ked
Ns yet, the Student Development Whe { Cay eft they had
Committee, consisting of — Carl ei jacket ! » full ot
Pahl, “Herb Meza, Dave Shepper-Jiitts that they contd: hardly wall
son, Mac Hart, Buddy Check, Jd, 10h seat Gls lOstt mie of thea
Ashmore and Buford Goodman, has | @Mersted ‘ !
made no definite plans for conduct There y AN?) t \ nds
ing the campaign. One suggestion | °! the stude fs Mie id been
that has been made would have] #! evens y nt e qtestion
the campus effort channeled largely that lingers t Wat
through social organizations such |- Who tad th t
as fraternities, Campus Club, and- dren or us?"
the independents 2 It is Woped that 1 ion
Students are urgedsto discu the | will become on ort
‘drive with their parents during the | Davidson trad Ns i
coming holidays ino order to de-]t ‘ 1
termine just-what support may be Jit ul 1oit wall

wiven to the program. It should be

son students who do not live in

North Carolina will receive no di Junior Executives
reet appeal in the subsequent wen
eral campaign, uifless the father hap Detined By Noland

pens to he an alumnus of Davidson

brought out that parents of David |
|
|

Consequently many parents may By C. DB. PARKER

wish to support the program with On 1) (eyed inl

contrihutions through their sons to} Noland. persom ‘ tei thieves

the local campaign . Dickson Investment Sc ties Co.,
Charlotte, N, ¢ } t ( leue

Faculty Members fi “so
Attend Conference |: to groupes the fi

At the annual meeting of the} ers. When emplo men in these
South Atlantic Modern ‘Language | capacities the eniploxe iy over
Association, which was held Frida) | |

and Saturday, November 26 and 27,! ciab mind and consider

at Florida State Universitysin Tal-| skill of the individual

lahasee, Davidson College was rep- | lire ait. Scope of ‘Dr. Noland's
|resented by the following members | djcsey € Was limited ‘to
of the faculty: English Depurtment,] the desizable traits in’ t ideal
Dr. G.-R, Wood, Professor E.-J.| junior adn ; HEN TET
Erwin, Dr. W. P. Cumming; French | acsistant tliat. field for which
Department, Dr, G. B,.-Watts,—Dr. | Davidson: me re prep The
A. V. Goldiere;, German’ Depart-Jfirst of desir; character s_is
ment, Dr. G. -R. Vowles, and the} +oood character: so necessary be-
Spanish Department by Dr. J.-\ ‘ or executive is in con-
Causey and Professor G W ntact with emplovees and

Roberts.

rates next.

All day Friday and Saturday

I e the quintessence of
morning were taken up with busi-| tact, enemy, titative, and agures-
ness meetings. At one of these ses- | siveness; even to the extent of tak-
sions ‘Dr. Watts presented a paper jing a job from gi superior. College

and

tempered

Dr. Causey led the discussion in

another session. Dr. Vowles served |

on three committees, the nominat-! with modesty, the enmt-

ing committee for the German sec- | ployer is a n: fhe

ideal junior executive is thirty years

tion, the nominating committee tor

youthful energy and enthusiasm, He

{
ey | ‘ea ,
the whole association, and the reso ea sober, stable, and mature with
lutions committee. |

Friday noon a luncheon was' given | 5 at an advantage if he is a native
(Continued On Page Four) | (Continued On Page Four)
