A Publication of the “ACA AU. 5, LOAG

eae eee a, ce eee oe reer eeien wees FOREN OO are Sur ene one Le een R SS fe at ne mn eee to. apne Mme atte
“ wane es iris ie § PTT es ec
mae SUN AD
tS . = De tt, -f} | '
Hy = Pe Tee N/ oe: il 4A L/
ee a oe eee BILL SHIT, 145, TO TAKS
ehAC lS Oi wD : BINS
ny Revs Willicm R, Smith III,

“eurrently pestor of the Yadkinville
After boing -so completely hum- fresbyterian Church, has beon sel-
pled by the Yaculty All-Stors last ected by the ¥iiCa woard of Control
wouk-tho Shagi_wilacate-rade-on—as-—-cs_tae. —"Y" Sccretary forthe school.
tounding comeback yesterday by re- year 1048-49, it was announced today
soundly spanking the Goorgic Poache by we S. NeLean, present Sccerctary.
CBe Geeduating from Davidson in
This whivring, ane that is exact- 1945, gnith finished Vnion theolog-
lo whet it WB, tool ‘olu.ce on fe abe ve ical seminary in idicimnond, Vae,
idson Cicsxiond, roivsesked. Lith wiile he vas serving as pastor in
Jim Bronch pitehing-the \Vildcats Yadkinville.s Ze marricd the former
were never in serious-trouble, tno-!-iss “elen Hayes of Pittsburg in
ugh Georgia did lead in the first 1946.
innings #ron-this-point—on }rench-
put _a damper on tne efrorts of the ly- active in’ extra-curricuda activ-——
Peaches and the score at the close ities having serve a6 resident of
of the come WOA8 ue Ve rthe VHCA, and trea asurcr of the Pane
This places tie Wildcats in sec- Hellenic Council. <A mcnber of Beta
— ond-place, ghea.len ing the All-Stargiheta Pi social fraternity, the-
for thie Top-srot,and tie Percies ‘intrach letterman was mneger of the

the celisr of the leasue. Student Store hie junior year. He
EIT TTS member of the Philanthropic
WATS LOL. CULITIVG Litcreary Society, ias listed in

myhot Who Among Students in ‘ncrie
an Colleges and Universities", and
Tonight at 9:00 unlese foul wean a8 tapped into ODii, ntion1

ther intervenés, a vatersic ‘ton cut- honorary leadership fraternity, dure

ee Ae RS CL A NE aS A Me

tine will be hicld on the west lewn inc his wudergradu.te dayse

of the GCA. As on erevi ous ocee sie: He and his wife will move to
ons, the waterrclon will be ten ‘cen Davidson the latter pert of this
ts a siiggs In ‘the eveit that it CCN. ne ce

reins, this will_be postroned 'til :

48 a student, Smith was ext¥emeq

: Vondey mite ganic time ond pisces - Movics *
S- ee

/ VISSER AUG. DS Wie, j lflover?

. _ Joyce iteynolds nobert Hutton

Veepere bats Sunday event will Aus Sal?s"adventurcs of Robin Ilood"
be conducted by Nev. Jom 1, ice Urrol ¢lynn Okiviea de Havilland
ikinnon, oestor of the First Sresuoy- . .
tecien Ciuren of Concord, 116. toric: ST AUgs 96.10}; "On an Island Vith ‘out

Wine Chsistian Student as roucies ~sther Williams Peter Lavford
the Alconol Problem!, - 8
. * a
