RF i A
; Me, Zl
ft Y,
y ZA J ‘
Vole) 1) Nowe LO A Publicstion of the YNCA Auge 11, 1948
— any ¢ — oe caer ‘ é
TROIS MICA EE RUE
EE IES =e Ae Zi" J wsada 214
FACULTY FOILED FORMER DaVIDSON PROF. TO CONDUCT

TWO SERVICES THUR,

Yesterday the Wildeats of West

dormitory sharpened their fangs and Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, Prof -
avenged two former losses at the © essor of Theology at Louisville

ands of the faculty team by hande... seminary, will conduct services
the All-Stars a 6-3 pasting. The here on the campus Thursday, Aug.
All-Stars, behind the pitching of 12, when we observe Religious Em-~
Prof, Baumann, got off to an early phasis Day.

Lead in the first inning but their Many Upper-celassmen will remem+
one Yun margin did not last long. ber Dr. Foreman aos a former Profs
In the third.frame the Wildcats hit essor of Bible and Philosophy here
tMeir stride and by the time the at Davidson, While here he was
sides were retired in this crucial noted for his outstanding ability
inning the Westers were ahead 5-1, to hold. the interest of all who
Throughout the rest of the game the heard him, by unusual presentations
. pushed across three more runs, and of forceful messagese

nipped a Faculty rally in the last Dr. Foreman will conduct Chapel
inning after the boys from Chambers Thursday morning and a vesper sere
had added two more runs to their vice that evening at 7:30 on the
total. west lawn of the YMCA, unless rain

In what turned out to be one of intervenes, in which case the sere
the fastest games this summer, the vice will- be held in the Collece
West team turned in an errorless Church, He will be available for
performance in the field; and at tle conferences with all who wish them
plate, led by Tommy Langford, who during his day here. Arrangements
batted in four runs, they were able for these can be made with the YMCA
to collect hits at the crucial mo=- secretary.
ments, Jimmy French held the Facul

ty All-Stars to six scattered hits, DAVIDSON LOURNS PROFESSOR

and in one inning the West twirler

retired the League-leaders with fow Davidson was shocked to hear of-
pitches. the sudden deathA/ednesday night of

Last Thursday, a sixth inning Professor W.W. Wood, Professor of
three-run homer by Dick-Redding gaveliathematics. Stricken with a heart
the AlleStars an 8-7 victory over attask about 8:00 P.it,, he had’ suc-

the Wildcats; and at the present cumbed by 10:00.

the Faculty is still in the lead The funeral service was held in
with a 381 records West second with the College Church Friday morning
#2500 average; and the Georgia at 11300 o'clock with Rev. Carl R.

Peaches have undisputed rule in the Pritchett officiating. Interment
cellar, There are five more games was at the local cemetery.

to be played in the current pennant .. Prof. Wood had been a member of
Yac€e | the faculty since 1915,
