rrr
eet Od: ‘od: se - Vel.

Vol.—1-Mo.-12 ——A PUBLICATION OF THE YuCA ~~ Auge 26, 1948
a “ny + | tar]
clQ q@y IN \ J U ie Pa
Sg (5 Oe y [Du ; Ls A,
La oom NG
"POOLS RUSH IN" - EXERCISES TO BE HELD FRIDAY NIGHT

- Forty-two-students will be gradu ——
Two hundred and fifty-eight ated from Davidson College-tomorray

freshmen, from tventy-one states, night in.the exercises to be-heid

the District of Columbia, China, under the’oaks and elms of the frmt

and France, will matriculate at campus at 7:30 P.M. Dr. C. K. Browr,
Davidson College on September 10, Dean of the Faculty, will avard the
it was announced by i.r, F. W. diplomas in the absence of Presidert
Hengevelda, ntegistrar.” This, the John k, Cunningham who is in Europe
lleth freshman class to enter — - Dr. alvin Keppel, President of

Davidson, is approximately the siz tawba College imSalisbury, will” de
of pre-war classes. —__ _ liver the Co:mencement address.
Orientation for freshmen will This service, will be the fifth
begin at 8:00 Al: on Friday, Sept. consecutive sugust Commencement
10, and the semester's classes begnwhich is necessitated by the twelve
on the following Wednesday. All month school which is now operatéd
freshmen. must be on hand for the by the college. The graduates are
orientation period, sponsored by thpredominantly veterans who have bem
YHCA, and upperclassmen must regis attending school continually in or-
ter on Sept. 13 and 14. der to finish their graduation re-
ir, Hengeveld stated that he had quirements sooner, _
received over one thousand applicd-
tions for admission, but crovded 1948 FOOTB.LL SCHIDULE
accomnodations had forced. the col- __ ; ~
lege to limit her acceptances to

approximately 250 men, Only one *Sept. 18 Tlon Davids
application in four was successful, *Sept. 25 Mtiliam and iiary Charlotte
This; circumstance, he said, vas Oct. 2 “Open

regrettable, for sons of many frienis*Oct, 9 .C.State Raleigh

and alumni hed to be refused -en- Oct. .16 The Citadel Charleston
trance. Oct, 23 Wofford Spartanburg

— -Bight .of.the entrants are under Oct. 30 VuaiieI. - Lexington
“full-time scholarships. Three have -¥Xow., 6. Richmond Davidson

won Pepsi Cola scholarshivs and Novy 13 Washington and Lee Davidson
five,of the ten male winners of tle ENov, 25 Furman Charlotte
competitive scholarships offered y — » ~ -

the Presbyterian Church, U. S., * Wight Game

have been enrolled, Homecoming

——Of the 253 freshmen,-146 are ¥ Thanksgiving = ————
( Cont, - Page 2, Col, 1 ) ae
a , —* - — : a

- ape . . . ——s
