YLDCAT "YVONDERING" AROUND
Published Weekly by the Yi:CA ;

(s

Editor Harry H, iicLean After carefully reading this col-
umn it became quite evident that ths

Joe Vance Bob Coble title would have to change since
Bill McLean what had been seen and heard during

this week had becn surpassed by what
we were just wondering about.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT
ey Seen: On the campus last weekend,
two dogs and a few students (very
"Aw, quit your worryin'!*® Simple few),
words, these - and nore often than Heard: From Quinine Cooper, "You
not, said merely for "something to pitch, va colling this game {"
say", but what import they carry. Wondering
These words reflect a condition that Along Shan Bunny Perrin, just
continues to fill the psychiatric where she is. Have you found out
wards of our hospitals to capacity. Bunny?

How many times during a single day How many times "Dairy Boy Patter-
do we hear them? How many times, son goes to Charlotte in one week?
they are aimed at us ! How Miitchel hicLean enjoyed his

How agoes worry differ from clear- trip to liontreat?
headed thinking and ylenning?Webster Whether Page Jak son still finds
defines worry as "undue solicitude; Selisbury as interesting as last
vexations anxicty".We're all guiity Semester?
of it to a greater or lesser degree, What Harry licLean will do about
though nearly everyone now recogni- the Frat Pin he found in his home-
zes the ha:mful effects of such Nor-town? Is he a Demon Deacon, H. H.?

ooding" and. attempts to avoid it. ‘If Tom Abell really found the
How do gome succeed where others horse show at Blowing Rock as ex-
fail? ting as he says?

I coudlin't begin to give a compl- If Bill Mebane let local interest
ete analysis of the ways this has postpone his. trip to Columbia? Try
been achieved, but I do know one~- . again "Weeping Willie".
wase A Methodist minister once said Just why John Rose makes the trip
that as a boy he had dreaded his .to Fayetteville every week?
regular monthly visits to a dentist Where Joe Shewmate spends the

who was doing some "long-range" weekends?
work on his teeth, Ordinarily he be= If Joe Vance still goes to the
gen worrying about his next visit "Y" on Wedriesday nights?

as soon as he was out of the hair, If Dick Stone has found his house
and the month that intervened was a yet? "Times awasting fellow".
nightmare, He finally realized some- If Jim Rast still has a deep de-
thing had to be done so he decided sire to go to Columbia?
to postpone his worrying to the two What has happened to "Fat Man "
weeks preceding his next visit.When Ben Drymon? Still going~to Charlotte
this period was over, he felt so Ben? :
free, he decided to postpone it 'til If "Big" Leighton still commutes
two days before, and so on until he from Charlotte?
realized he had stopped worrying What a certain Co-ed from W,.C.
about the thing he most dreaded in will say when she hears about John
his lifet He found this would apply Codington's trip to the beach?
to his other activities as well,and If Springer Hoskins has made the
so he became one of the few of our trip to Kinston? Try the Express
generation who has learned not to from Charlotte,son$
WOLTY ¢ Why their isn't more to write

Can we use his system to our ad- about?
vantage? I think we can}

-
4
