PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

pF
EDITOR IN CHIEF -...-._-----.---..-------. BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER ....--.----...-----------+ BILL HOUCK
EDITORIAL STAFF .
Chief Associate Editor .......-.--...-.-.--..-------~------ Doug Hix

Chief Associate Editor .-..................------- Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor .-.....---...-.----------------- Jack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bil! Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor. ;
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors —- Dan McKei-
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling. .

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager ...-.---..------ -..------- Bill Casselts,

Advertising Managers .---..-----+--~------- Wylie Sinith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager..__....-...--..-----.---<-. Huffaker

Asst. Cirtulation Managers ...--...- Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ..--...------------ acccecce-= -.---.- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ..---- wecmacernccunneseccnenns-ens Alex Goley

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
ee nn
Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Open Letter to the Student Body

Regardless of what else he may or may not have done by
means of his chapel address Thursday, October 27, Dr. Aber-
nathy certainly accomplished his purpose. He aroused a
considerable amount of both thought and comment. Since the
“most lengthy portion of his telk was directed at the Davidsonian
and. its staff, we would like to avail ourselves of this oppor-

tunity and this medium to set before the student body a precise |

evaluation of the Situation as we see it and to state what we be-
lieve to be our position in relation to this situation. —

It is not our purpose here to take up Dr. Abernathy’s in-
dictment point by point, and attempt either to prove unjusti-
fiable, or to deny the truth of the charges he presented. This is
not our purpose for two reasons: At n meeting with members of
the staff last Tuesday night, Dr. Abernathy made the statement
that his remarks were based on the quality of the papers pub-
lished during the past three years. In addition, if anything of
lasting value is to be derived from what was said, we cannot
hegin by defrauding ourselves of the fundamental validity of
the address by pausing to take issue with, -or advantage of its
superficial weaknesses. ;

The Davidsonian staff is convinced of both the necessity
for, and the basic cogency of what was said. No member of the
senior class is more aware than myself of the fact that since the
time we were freshmen—and very likely long before that—
most issues of the Davidsonian have been as devoid of stimu-
lating content and absorb.ng, high quality journalism, as a
pocket book edition of Little Red Riding Hood. For years our
faculty and student: body have very properly patted The David-
sonian on the back aud told it to ran along and have a good
time—play with its mud pies and sand piles, and bask contented-
ly in the blissful dream that it is a newspaper. It has been doing
exactly that. And we. as a student body, have been eager to
sit back in our chapel seats, prop our knees on the back of the
seat in front, and vawn a weary ‘‘so what?’’ It does seem that
we are constantly hearing pep talks of some Kind. This letter
may appear to be another—if somewhat more lengthy—varia-
tion of the same old theme. However, such is not the case. This
is something new to Davidson, just as Dr. Abernathy’s address
was new. We do not by any means concur with all that he had
to say. We do know—just as you must know, if. you give the
matter any thought—that his motivating idea is sound. It is
simply stated: We are not going to know how to fit ourselves
into society and business or professional life with any degree
of proficiency when we graduate if we are too dull or too lazy
or too full of how good we are, toe_do tyo things: First, to
make the courses we are engaged in taking from day to day ap-
ply to the activities and the situations we are involved in now—
today; and Second—to use the facilities available to us through
our much discussed extracurricular activities to the fullest ex-
tent of their capacity to develop our embryonic powers of per-
sonality, intellect, and social know how. Whether we-are inter-
ested in becoming doctors, preachers, businessmen, or lawyers,
the exercise and consequent development of these powers—di-
rectly through personal participation in, and indirectly through
sustained interest concerning our extra-curricular activities —
will stand us in good stead when we are outside the comparative
shelter of these ivy covered walls.

We delude ourselves if we think that this is a problem for us
to lay in the laps of the fuculty for solution. The degree of suc-
cess or lack of it we achieve when we leave college, is the proo-
lem of no one but ourselves. And if we manifest no more inter-
est in situations, activities, and events when we are gone from
here than we are now displaving in our academie work, extra-
eurricular activities, and team support, we may as well give up
the idea of ever making worth-while personal achievements.

There is much talk of a feeling of faculty disinelination to al-
low us to carry through projects or ideas sponsored by the stu-
dents and conducted by the students. If such is true, we will
accomplish at least the elevation of our own maturity level by
investigating the situation and making an effort to surmount
it. What is more probably the case, we will discover that it is
only our lack of initiative and resourcefulness that prevents us
from bringing to pass any worthy projects we may wish to at-
tempt. o

The Davidsonian staff began, in September, a series of changes
which we think will vastly increase the paper’s effectiveness, its
interest content, and, as a result, its power to stimulate each stu-
dents’ intellectual, social, and physical growth. Although the
process may require the space of two or more years, the quality
level of the paper — we believe — will be steadily rising. How-
ever, and this is the point upon which the suecess or failure of
any Davidson venture hangs, only by means of a personal in-
terest assumed and manifested by individuals, and groups of
individuals, throughout the student body can The Davidsonian
ever hope to become more meaningful, At present it is a student
publication in name only. In order for us to be able to enjoy a
first class paper here at Davidson, it must be made that in fact
as well,

oe

et OS TR STE

EDITOR = \m- CHEF WOLLIGTER BEFORE ABtANATHY’S Bract //

a

_——

~~

SS)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘

FRIDAY, NOV. 4,°1949

The DAVID SONIAN Presents

i

————

What Davidson Spirit?

Judge Doug Rice spoke in chapel
the other day of the lack of school
spirit in the ypper classes. He point-
ed out that the spirit in the sopho-
more, junior, and senior classes has
consisted of shouting for the fresh-
men to go to pep rallics and yell
for the team. Attendance at pep
inectings has been virtually reduc-
ed to the cheer leaders, those fresh-
men which have been rooted out by
threats, and no more than ten or fif-
teen upperclassmen, Attendance at
the homecoming bonfire was some-
what better, but still far below any-
thing which we’ve seen in our stay
at Davidson.

We can’t say anything about pre.
war Wildcat spirit except to relate
those things which were. told us as
freshmen by those who had been
here in the early forties and late
thirties. They placed the spirit of
that day above anything in the first
post war years. Now, if it was poor
in those days, we would be asham-
ed to have any of those old boys
see Davidson today.

The point is that this football
team represents Davidson College
and Davidson College is not just
the freshman class. There are also
sophomores, juniors, and seniors
here and everyone would take as
much credit for’ a winning team as
any freshnian, Therefore it is up to
every member of te student body
to back any Davidson football team
or any other athletic squad whether
it wins or loses. \"

We haven't heard but one chant
in chapel in the past week, The

freshman class, as the rest of the
student body left chapel, put up a
feeble cry to beat VMI. We say

feeble and that's just what it was,

but it was still a heck of a lot more.

than the entire student body could
nuuster.

The cheerleaders wnder Charlie
Mitchell have done as much as could
be expected. They have had pep
meetings, sendoffs for the team,
and have done remarkably well at
the games, But even the best cheer-
leader cannot bring out spirit that
is not there as is so latent that he
doesn't even snore.

We've said that the cheerleaders
have done the best of a poor situa-
tion; and a poor situation it is. The
student body has done a poor job
but we must all admit that they
have’ had little to cheer about this
year. The football team has shown
an equally poor spirit .on the field
this year with two excitable excep-
tions. These exceptions being of
course the Army tussle and the
great victory over N. C. Stite.

We find it hard to believe that it
is the same team which played N.
C. State that played Richmond and
Washington and Lee in the last two
weeks, Of course it can be said that
it actually is not the same team.
Injuries to the players in and with
the Stat&game have hurt the team.

But we can't believe that they have’

hurt it that much. Tt seems that
these injuries have hurt the team
more mentally than they have phy.
sically. With the loss of a few key
men, the feeling of defeat seems to
have set in. Anybody knows that
a team which is beaten before it
goes on the field has little more than
a prayer to come out on the long
end — and all the prayers in Da-
vidson could not have helped last
week at W&L. In the

EDITORIALS..:LETTERS..

By JACK HAZARD

minutes of that game we thought
the Cats had found themselves as
they took the opening kickoff and
marched sixty yards before a pass
backfired. The first W & L play
went all the way back up the field
for a touchdown and from there it
was a rout. Davidson could never
again get on its feet.

Now this writer is no football
player and never has been. All he
knows about football is what he
sees and what he hears from those
who do ‘know something. But we
know that any ball:club which says
it cannot stop a split-T will never
stop a split-T formation. It is beat-
en before the game as we said
above. We've heard more than one
Davidson football player assert
that the split-T cannot be stopped.
Davidson will never stop a split-T
as long as they feel that way.

The team is now back in Lex-
ington to play VMI. The boys wilt
not see this edition until after they
have played that game. We have
heard and observed from watching
practice’ in the past week that the
spirit of the ball club is higher than
any time this year with the possible
exception of the State game. If this
spirit is retained throughout the
VMI struggle, Davidson will win
it. If not we may have the same
as last week. ‘

If this edition makes anyone mad
it has accomplished its purpose. If
it has not made anyone mad yet
we'll say again that the spirit of the
student body stinks and up to this

‘week the team spirit has been little

better! Let’s hope we are wrong
from now on.
The Davidsonian is behind the

first few | Wildcats!

FUZZY FIZZES....,. » cuanue vavis

A friend remarked thoughtfully

and a little sardoniéally the other

day, “You know, Professor Aber-

nathy‘’s chapel talk was interesting,

but really beside the point. The

based on the as-

sumption that Da.

a vidson is primari-

=f: an educational

t institution. That's

— is a finishing

AB{ school for ‘good

° , ea We get a

little intellectual

training, not enough to interfere

with week ends; a little social train-

teous to visiting speakers; and a

little religious training, not enough

really to upset us. The all-round

gloss — that’s what Davidson gives
you.” - ~

pensive remark of one of our clear-

est-thinking professors, “Sure Da.

vidson turns out gentlemén; ninety

per cent of the boys are gentlemen

when they come here and eighty

graduate.” It must be admitted that

these two comments, overstate-

ments though they may be, furnish

food for thought.

Before any attempt is made to

‘whole thing was

not so; Davidson

ing, not enough to make us cour-
We might couple with that the
per cent are gentlemen when they
appfaise Davidson's end product, it

is necessary to explore some of the
main characteristics of the process
that shape that product. First, and
perhaps the most striking feature
of life at Davidson, is the terrific
centripetal pressure that so power-
fully affects every student. This
striving for uniformity is a natural
outgrowth of the Davidson set-up:
a small college with its professors
and students drawn largely from
an upper-middle class, Southern,
Protestant clientele. Strengthened
by natural inbreeding tendencies
(the matriculation of sons and
grandsons and the metamorphosis
of students into professors), the
set-up produces both an approval
of conformity and an intolerance
of aberration. As someone hasfsum-
marized it, “At Davidson we're all
one big, happy family. If anybody
gets out of line, We just hit him
behind the ear and knock him back
in again,”

A second characteristic: the state
church system. Everybody at Da-
vidson is automatically a member of
the YMCA. (Too often the mem.
bership card, with its attendant
swimming pool privileges, is as far
as student interest goes. Is this
passivity a consequence of authori-
tarianism?) And everybody takes
Bible and goes to chapel and ves-
pers, on the sheory that exposure
to religion can’t do any harm and

may do some good, The college en-
deavors to prescribe morals for the
student body, with varying degrees
Of success. Some would argue that
this system places emphasis on
morality rather than spirituality, on
the form of religion rather than
the essence. Others affirm the val-
ue of a common program which
reaches every student.

Third and perhaps most omin-
ous: the lack of tension and indi-
vidual expression on the part of
the student body. At Davidson we
walk jovially up and down the cam-
pus and talk about the weather and
last week’s dance. If any of us have
a real reason for being here, we
keep it as quiet as possible. There
is little real communication between
student and student and between
professor and student because most
of our ideas are alike to begin with
And this state of affairs is appar-
ently agreeable to the powers that
be. No controversial speakers are
brought to the campus; we live, so
to speak in an intellectually insutat-
ed hothouse. Administrative gui.
dance is felt in this sphere as well
as that of morals. Professor Aber-
nathy said that the Davidsonian
was noted for not having an editor-
ial policy; is this entirely the fault
of the students? Is it true that col-
lege publications have been placed

(Continued On Page Six)

.
a ——

FEATURES

THE NEW SOUTH

By GABRIEL LOWE

When “Life’ magazine finds, The enrichment of the South can
something good to report about the| be laid directly at the feet of the
South, it has to be extraordinarily | late President Franklin Roosevelt,
good. In the issue of October 31] whose New Deal program did more
the feature article was a twelve-}or the South in the period from

oe “Ypage spread on| 1933 to 1939 than all the Adminis-
7 the advances that] trations had done since the dgys
have been madefof Calhoun and Jackson. Under

in the South over | New Deal leadership the Tennessee
the past 10 years.| Valley program was instituted and

The signifi Jmade a working reality. ft created
cance of this ar-] hundreds of thousands of jobs in
ticle is that, not} the South during a time when em-
only “Life,” but {ployment was at a premium. And
the nation as af .he low power rates that resulted
whole has been] from it contributed directly to the
awakened to the progress that has growth of the furniture and tex-
made itself manifest here in the| tile industries in the Piedmont
South. It is nothing new to us to} Carolinas, and the steel industry of -
read of contour farming, widespread | Alabama, creating more and perm.
use of agricultural machinery, new] anent jobs. [t was the Departmeix
agricultural methods, mills, factor-] of Agriculture of the Roosevelt
ies, housing projects, schools, facili.| Administration that taught. the
ties for Negrocs, and industrial] farmers contour plowing, .terracing,
unionization in the South. All these | and soil restoration. The New Deal
things have been with us for so] provided the money in many cases
long that we do not notice them;] for thé construction of decent, low-
they are part of the South that we] cost housing for Negroes as well
have lived for ten years. But to]as whites. New Deal money helped
the non-Southerner, who had form-}to build schools, churchés, roads,
ed an opinion of the South as a and model communities all over
land of magnolias, mint juleps, ra-] the South. Money from the New
cial prejudice, the straight Demo-] Deal gave many farmers a start
cratic ticket, and overwhelming | in raising herds of fine dairy and
and dite poverty, it is a revelation. | beef cattle; it built mills and fac- .

Each year, more and more North. | tories; it put many small businesses
erners and Easterners ‘go home]on their fect and gave them a new
from Southern vacation resorts] tease on life. All these things mean’
wide-eyed with wonder at the pro-]a higher standard of living for
gress and industry that they have] the Sonth and for the nation as a
seen on every hand in the non-re-| whole. The South in 1933 was the
sort sections through which they |last great frontier of America. To-
passed. And each year the mill.| day the red-halred step-child has
owners of New. England feel more {become a rich, vigorous, progres-
and more the pinch that is precipi-| sive man, thanks to Roosevelt. And
tated by the loss of business to| the initial push that was given by

Southern mills, - the New Deal was augmented by
Probably the greatest impression | the war,-and by the period of pros-
made on the outside is in respect} perity that has followed.
to the Negro and to his life in The But all these advances do not
New South. As Life puts it, he is} mean that we can sit back on our
“still segregated,” but “life is get-| laurels and merely rével in what
ting better for him.” That, we be-| we have done. We have come a
lieve, is the solution to the prob-| long way, but there is still a longer
lem of the races living together. It} way to go. There is yet much to be
is.a solution that we have not fully | accomplished before we reach the
exploited yet, but progress has been | ultimate goal of Southern prosperi-
and is being made in all parts of} ty, and every Southerner has a vital
the South toward the eventual dis-| part in. the work as in the fruits
sipation of the problem. of success that will follow.

e
If good grades are what yon're
looking for when you come to Da.

awake.)

(5) Laugh at his jokes, (You
can tell when he cracks one. If he
looks up from his notes and smiles
expectantly, he has told a joke.)

(6) Ask for outside reading. (You
don't have to do it. Just ask).

(7) If you must slecp, arrange
to be called on at the end of the
hour, (It creates an unfavorable
impression if the rest of the class
has left and you sit there alone,
dozing.)

(8) Be sure the book you read
during the lecture looks like a
book from the course. (If you do
math in psychology class and psy-
chology in math class, match the
books for size and color.)

(9) Ask any questions you think
he can answer—Frowe “The Daily
Towan.”

‘Paste thesd study ‘habits inside
your hat. Abide by them and you'll
be one of the best students at Da-

(1) Look alert. JF
Take notes eag-.
erly. (If you look.
at your watch,.
don’t stare at it
with the profes- \ am :
fiery interest and gives the pro-
the class. If you. can’t find clip-
any old clipping at random. He
thinks anything deals with the sub-
ject). .

(3) Nod frequently and murmnr,
“How truet” (To you, this seems

unbelievingly and.

shake it.) yy

exaggerated. To him, it is quite ad- vidson. .

jective.) According to The Daily Tar Heel

College Rags In Brief
By TOM HOLLER
vidson, you’d do well to jot down
these sure-fire steps that lead ‘to a
successful college career.
rv. 1
es
(2) Take news.
paper clippings to’
class that deal
sor’s subject. (This demonstrates
fessor timely items to mention to
pings dealing with his subject, take
(4) Set in front near him. ai Carolina there should be some-.
(Continued On Page Five)

plies only if you intend to stay

Camera Comments
By HUGH SWAN

las (biggest sensation since bubble
gum) and Linda Darnell runs from
Sunday of next week until Saturday
at the Carolina Theatre. This
should be a pretty good movie.
Paul is a natural actor with an
easy likeable manner. Linda lures
Paul into opera after hearing him
sing in a bathtub. Paul puts a fresh
new slant on acting which makes
this picture a sure bet for good en-
tertainment. Leave us not discuss
is any more as it's really a top-rate
comedy.

“Under Capricorn” starring -In-
grid Bergman and Joseph Cotten,
runs Monday and Tuesday at the
Davidson Theatre. This is the same
old story of “wife meets other man,
husband gets jealous.” This picture
shows you the heights and the
depths to which a woman like In-
grid can go — it shows no more.
I don’t think this picture would
exactly clear your mind before you

(Continued On Page Bive)

“Chicago Deadline” starring Alan
“Knuckles” Ladd and Donna Reed
runs as a late feature at the Im-
perial Theatre on Saturday night,
November 5, 10:45 p. m. Alan, a
news reporter, tries to make front-
page history by avenging a beauti-
ful female, Donna. It’s the usual
tough-guy movie in which Ladd
slaps the gal down so she can crawl
back and tie his shoestrings. Ladd
slugs everybody except his mother
—he pushes her out of a window.
This picture will probably have a
poweriul reaction on you — you'll
feel like you’ve been slugged your-
self.

“Brimestone” (sounds like a
rough highball) starring Rod Cam-
eron and Charlita (a female tomale
that crawled across the border)
runs from Sunday through Satur-
day of next week at the Imperial
Theatre.

“Everybody Does It” (sings in
the bathtub) starring Paul Doug-
