PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF . BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER -_.-.------—----------- BILL _HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor ......--------------~------=-------- Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor wececceseccececene Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor .—~......---~----~------------- Jack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor. ;
Sports Editor~—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-.
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling. .
City Editor—Jobn Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager .-.-...-.------------------ Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers -..--.------------ gee Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation. Manager._...——-~.-.----~------~-------- === Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers —..---.... Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ..---...-------------2-- one .-- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager mececcncecncecece--= Alex Goley

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class mattcr at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Football At Davidson

One of the worst football seasons in recent years for Da-
vidson College has ended. The fact that it was one of the worst
cannot be debated, but the reasons for this have drawn much
speculation and will continue to do so for some time. These
causes will necessarily form the basis of any measures taken
to improve the situation. We would like to analyze three of the
main reasons which have been presented without any emphasis
as to the importance of any one over the others.

First.is the old how! of its being the fault of the coach or
coaches. Now, no supporter, student, or alumnus of Davidson
ean feel that Coach Jamerson is a Frank Leahy or Cari Snavely
—Charlie Jamerson is probably the first to say this. He is not
drawing anywhere near the salary that any coach at a big
school is drawing. Nor will any other eoach at Davidson receive
a comparable salary. For the present amount being paid, David-
son can scarcely hope to hire a big-name coach. ‘

While on the subject, we would like to say that. Coach
Jamerson has worked unstintingly at his job and is certainly
well thought of by students, iaculty, team and townspeople.

There cre advocates for a change in the coaching set-up,
however, and each, of course, has his own pet name for ‘the
position of permanent Athletic Director and Coach.

Whatever the decision, it is said that Davidson should
change her offensive formation from the double-wing, which
the Wildcats have been using, to the split-T. This latter forma-
tion has been a nemesis to Cat defenders all year; and ‘it was
felt thet if it worked so well against them that it should be used
to work for them. But this decision of formation is getting into
Gordon Scott’s field.

The second reason, or excuse, which has been put forth
is a lack of material. It was said that the athletes who wore the
Red and Black were not as good as their opponents. It cer-
tainly looked that way at times, but we can "t believe that it is
altogether true. We cannot be convinced that the W. & L. foot-
ball players were 53 points better than the Davidson players.

This will all go back to the old argument that Davidson
must spend money ‘to buy a ball club if she expects to compete
with schools who do. The powers that be are realizing this fact
more and more, and the present iden js to extend the issuing of
scholarships over a broader field. This idea is not to give more
money to individuals, but to give more scholarships of the

F

In a front page article last Sun-
day's New York Times applauded
the anti-discrimination stand of
this year’s National Interfraternity

J thands - off policy,

’ The NIC recom-
mended the elim-
ination of restric-

t ~ mm tive membership

f Opprovisions If this

rt * recommendation

; national boards of

' the various fra-

mm. 7 Wrernities, each’ lo-

cal chapter will have the right to

select its pledges on an individual

basis, without fear of prior regu-

lations. There will then be no pos-

at Amherst, where a local chapter

was suspended by the national or-

ganization because it admitted a
Negro.

All. this is encouraging, but
hardly conclusive. The result of
agitation by undergraduate frater-
no vote at the Conference, student
advocacy forced the matter onto the
floor) the move faced considerable
opposition; nineteen of the fifty-
eight member fraternities abstained
from voting, while three opposed
it. The words of the Conference
practice ... of so-called racial dis-
crimination in the selection of mem-
bers ... is a right of every fra-
ternity” and the mild wording of
the resolutian (a recommendation
rather than an order) indicate that
the fight for a more liberal policy
but only a step, in the right direc-
tion.

Not encouraging at all are the
reports ‘of immorality and poor
scholarship in fraternities. It is
almost impossible to get an over-
all picture of the prevalence of the
cern among Council leaders is sig-
nificant. On the latter, however,
complete figures are available —
and eye-opening. Ralph W, Wil-
son, Council Scholarship Counse-
lor, asserts in his report, “The Fra-
ternity System seems headed for

‘Conference. Reversing its previous

is adopted by the
sible repetition of the recent affair
nity leaders (though students have
Chairman, Frank Myers, “The
is by. nd.means won. This is a step,
former, although widespread con-
scholastic oblivion and on its way

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tee DAVIDSONIAN presents
EDITORIALS... LET
UZZY FIZZES

By CHARLIE DAVIS

ee eee
6

,

ata rapid pace. The fifty-eight fra-
ternities were able to get merely
thirty-seven per cent of their re-
ported chapters into the respectable
scholarship column.’ Respectable
scholarship means. a rating of fifty
per cent in the All Men’s Average.
Since the fraternity lag is what
pulls down that average, the situa-
tion is really worse than it looks.
As Wilson confesses, “We are not
comparing the fraternity men with
the non-fraternity men, for if we
did the results would be so terrible
that [ should not dare to print
them.” In view of this situation
there can be little wonder at the
snowhalling opposition to fraterni-
ties current anrong college admin-
istrators. The actuality makes cer-
tain statements of the Council De-
calog of Policy sound a bit ironic:
“The college fraternity has as its
goal, in harmony with that of the
college, to provide training and dis-
cipline of the individual . . . The
college fraternity stands for excel-
lence in scholarship.”

Reflected also in the Confer-
ence was the present trend toward
drastic .restriction of war-swollen
chapter membership, Will this cur-
tailment of size play into the hands
of the other major faction of fra-
ternity opponents, those who call
the system undemocratic? Does the
opportunity for wider service de-
mand more, if not bigger, chapters?

From these indications, it would
seem that the fraternity system in
the United States is passing
through a period of crisis. We are
naturally concerned over the ques-
tion of whether fraternity leader-
ship is rising to meet the emergen-
cy. Bil! Bird, Davidson’s student
repiesentative at the Conference,
returned from it in a not too opti-
mistic mood. He said, “The Con-
ference involved a lot of tatk but
very little action, Undergraduates
had no vote at all and thus could
take no active part in the proceed-
ings.” Evidently there is still need
for an increase in liberal, creative
leadership. Until fraternities be-
come more interested in their con-
tribution than in their reputation,
is it unjustified to fear that they
may not prove adaptable enough
to survive?

Review of “John Loves Mary” |

By HENRY

The Red and Black Masquer’s
ptoduction of Norman Krasna's
John .Loves Mary was undoubted-

present amount. It is felt that the need is in depth more thanjjy one of the most suffcessful

anything else,
ning combine. If scholarships are given to cover tuition to more
boys the lot of Davidson may be improved. .

Davidson is losing many boys who would normally enroll
here simply because these boys cannot afford to turn down of-
fers which they receive elsewhere. Any boy who displays some
athletic prowess can receive a scholarship of some sort this day
and time. He will go to the school which gives him the best
offer, and though he may want to come to Davidson even for a
slightly less monetary consideration, he cannot afford to pass
up other offers.

Davidson cannot continue intercollegiate football without
some added financial aid for subsidization.

The third point brought out is the Wildcats apparent lack
of spirit. This point has been pusi.éd around all year—particu-
larly in the latter weeks. It was not the point that the Cats
were beaten so often, but that they were heaten so badly each
time. It seemed that as soon as they got behind, they gave up
and the opposition carried on from there. But we shall not
speak further on this subject for fear of overemphasizing it.

These are the chief wrongs in Davidson football. There
possibly are others. The remedy for the first two lie with the
administration—for the third, with the students—J. H.

i) i]
Social Functions __

Many of you may have noticed the paragraphs in last
week’s DAVIDSONIAN dealing with the social life of the
fraternities on the campus and how it is hampered by the
faculty. This is something which I think the faculty should
sefiously reconsider with the purpose of changing the present
ruling on the matter.

As was pointed ont, there are now ten social fraternities
on the campus and each of them is allowed only one off campus
function a semester. The writer also pointed out that while
“on campus’ functions were not discouraged, there is only one
good place, not including the fraternity houses, to have such a
function and that is the Erwin Lodge. Obviously it would take
several months for each fraternity to be able to get the lodge
and have a party. Frequently, the Jodge is unobtainable as many
of the other student and iaculty groups use it. This is particu-
larly true in the early fall and spring. The fraternity houses
are always available of course, but are not equipped to handle
the number of people usually present. Not only is the amount of
room limited, but in most cases the rugs may not easily be re-
moved from the floor for dancing. The extremely small kitchens

(Continued On Page Six)

There are not enough bell players to field a win-j undertakings, viewed from the

over-all stand-
point, that the
Masquer’s have
done in recent
years. Follow-
ing the advice
on the playbill,
I sat back and
enjoyed the play
Me and it) would
have been hard to do otherwise
For from the standpoints of both
acting and staging the play was
characterized by a smoothness
that was refreshing.

The set itself -was most effective
and was indicative of sound stage-
craft. Special mehtion must be
made of the scene from the win-
dow. Its mercuric quality bore a
certain relationship to a similar
scene in “Rope’ but it is just as
effective in John Loves Mary as

E. HANSEN

it was in its Hitchcock environ.
Aside from what could be seen out-
side the window, the. set was con-.
vincingly St. Regis enough to com-
pletely satisfy the audience.

The most important thing—the
acting of the cast itself—more than
did justice to the set. Though cer-
tain characterizations were a little
weak, all were competent and some
deserve special mention. Ted
Daniel’s Oscar Dugan was an ex-
cellent version of the old family re-
tainer, New York style. In. his
manner was that combination of
respect and humorous realizations
of the family’s foibles that. we
would expect to see in real life.

Woodie McKay was convincing-
ly hiniself in a part that could not
but benefit from such a characteri-
zation. bg

Mary Wells McNeill turned in
a top-notch performance, She
made us realize that, whatever
quaking and trembling the Sena-
tor might cause in the senatorial

(Continued on Page Six)

College Rags In Brief

By WATT
Two of our southern schools sent

JEFFRIES
While their fellow southerners

representative groups of their stu-| were behaving thusly, the Tar Heels

dent bodies into Yankee land in
recent weeks to accompany their
football teams. The comments by
those who came in contact with
the two groups give us a marked
contrast in their behaviour.
Students from the University of
Virginia raised such havoc in the
’ Philadelphia ho-

tels after their

victory over

Penn State that

' hotel officials
J - ] are “considering
, / their own Ma-
son-Dixon line

& to keep Univer-
4 . sity of Virginia

a football fans out

. of town when

Virginia plays here (Philadel-
phia).” The Virginians tore down
fire hoses, wrecked sand jars and
signs, ran down the halls all night
Jong, and threw beer at s Negro
elevator operator.

from U.N.C., were making such
an impression that not only en-
deared themSelves to New Yorkers
in every part of the city, and the
secretary of the Hotel Association
was heard to say, “Definitely, we
would like to invite them back.”
Before the Tar Heels arrived, the
press was bemoaning the fact that
Army was not Notre Dame's op-
ponent. They were soon to change
their opinion. Carolinians (with
their Confederate flags) popped up
all over the city with big displays
of school enthusiasm. The vice
president of Notre Dame said, “it
was the greatest, finest display of
school spirit I have ever wit-
nessed,” and a New York police
captain said, “they're a great bunch
of folks and we're glad to have
‘em with us.”

About sixty musicians of the
Colgate University band were at-
tacked by Syracuse students as the

(Continued on Page Six)

Letters To
The Editor

Dear Editor:

1 too should like to be so bold as
to expose myself to unqualified con-
demnation by Bob Johnson, since I
would consider it a great honor to
be censured by his worthy pen and
I am sure Mr. Harris must feel
highly esteemed to have merited
this great honor. [ft surely was
with noble condescension that our
Mr. Johnson gave of his valuable
time to reply and not reply to
Mr. Harris’ letter.

Perhaps some of you remember
the address by Mr. Arnold in which
he said he had never heard a Da-
vidson student utter a profane re-
mark. Mr. Johnson's statement that
he had never heard it said that Ves-
pers should be cancelled, that chap-
cl exercises be abolished, or that
Bible, sophomore English, and, or
ROTC be dropped sadly reminds
me that he too does not hear what
some students say. Now I will ad-
mit that no cursing may have reach-
ed Mr. Arnold’s ear, simply be-
cause he does not come into daily
close contact with students; by the
same token | will admit that it is
remotely possible that Mr, Johnson
never heard the above mentioned
abolishments and cancellations
spoken of. However, I hesitate to
think of him as a veritable inve-
terate recluse, shunning all student
life and campus activities, as the
case would seem to be if he has
never heard proposals pertaining to
doing away with any or all of these
exercises and classes. Be that as
it may...

1f it is against all the forms of
Mr. Johnson's religion or creed to
express oneself with emotion, then
Mr. Harris has wronged him. But
even we intellectual Presbyterians
find it necessary to yive vent to
our feelings occasionally and I
think Mr. Harris has done no more
in this case. Further, it is my hum-
ble opinion that he is being un-
justly lowered by Johnson’s de-
rogatory remarks pertaining to the
heights of Mr. Harris’ dignity.

In closing let me agree and go
one step further than Mr. Johnson.
He made no civil attempt to an-
swer Mr. Harris’ letter,

W. L. Brooks.

Dear Editor:

You will be surprised to find up-
on checking just how few' places
the . Davidson band accompanied
the football team this fall. Twice at
Davidson and once in Charlotte I
think is correct. Js it any wonder
that with such poor support the
team didn’t do any better?

The Davidson band is and al-
ways has been a big asset to the
college and a big moral support to
the team. Outsiders even do not
understand, much less the Alumni.

What a pity—what a pity—what
a pity.

, An Ole Timer
Greenville, S. C,

Marking Upward Trend
In Southern Education

While visiting 50 Southern col-
leges recently, Chester I. Barnard,
head of the Rockefeller Founda-
tion, made some highly gratifying
observations regarding the progress
of education in the South,

In this wection with other foun-
dation heads to study institutions
that had requested grants, | Mr.
Bernard rémarked that education-
al advances in this region are ad-
vancing hand in hand with the
South’s increasing prosperity.

The truth of his statement may
easily be discerned by the grow-
ing number of students from other
sections who enroll at Southern in-
stitutions to obtain their education.

In this same connection, the
Georgia School of Technology re-
leased an interesting report the
other day which attributed the ‘lure
of the Atlanta institution more to
its high scholastic rating than to
its football team. The report was
based on a poll of the student body
taken by the Tech public relations
office.

The trend of enrollments of stu-
dents at Southern institutions from
other sections marks the rever-
sal of a process. For many years,
it was the other way around, Young
people left the South to go else-
where for their education and of-
ten remained. Today more students
from other regions are coming to
the South and are remaining to
make this section their home and
contribute to its progress.—Jack-
sonville Times.

SS SS sr
ST

a err A

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1949

TERS... FEATURES

CAMERA CORNER

By HUGH SWAN

tainment and in doing so you lose
the happiness obtained from creat-
ing your own entertainment. There-
fore, it depends upon the individual
—you can use your money for per-
sonal comforts and help to others
—you can still seek out the simple,
seemingly unimportant activities of
life that give you so much happi-
ness. Little things such as those
last few hours with your sweet-
heart, the long intimate talks with
your best pal, and that look on mo-
ther's and dad’s faces when you got
your high school diploma, all these
you lock in your heart so you can
draw on them during those cold,
winter days when. things look “sor-
ta” blue. Anyone can have these
little joys Of life — they're all
free. Money is no problem to de-
cide, it’s the type of person you're
going to be that is the question.
This picture will really give you a
thought to chew on —~ don’t miss
it. ,

“The Trail of the Lonesome
Pine” starring Fred McMurray,
Henry Fonda (Frank James), and
Sylvia Sidney plays Friday and
Saturday. This picture, brought
back by popular demand, tells how
an ancient hill feud involving two
families, and resulting in dozens of
deaths, is affected by the inroads of
civilization, in the person of a
young engineer who arrives to con-
struct a railroad line that must go
through the property of the feud-
ing families, Miss Sidney and Fon-
da portray members of the Tolli-
ver clan. When MacMurray, as the
engineer, arrives on the scene, Syl-
via is immediately fascinated by
him. Fonda, her cousin, who has al-.
ways loved her, is aroused to jeal-
ously that knows no Jaw but one—
to fight and ‘kill for the things he
holds dear, The events that fol-
low avhen the opposing factions
meet result in. some highly excit-
ing action. For the outcome, see
this old favorite.

Three fine pictures are coming
to the Davidson Theatre this next
week, If you want to see any of
them, present 35 cents at the win-
dow or tear off the tops of two con-
vertibles and mail them in for a
press pass.

“Outpost in Morocco”, starring
George Raft and Akin Tamiroff,
plays Monday and Tuesday. It’s the
story of the French Foreign Legion
trapped in the forbidden zones of
seething Morocco. There’s a gal in
it — Raft falls in love with her but
she, being his enemy, gives Raft
the brush-off. Raft has a hard
choice to make — he must make
the Arabs surrender or make the
girl (Marie Windsor) his own. Ma-
rie Windsor is quite a gal. In her
childhood on a Utah ranch she
was able to whip up her own ward-
robe, turn out an expertly prepared
meal, lay bricks, pour concrete, re-
pair an automobile and, in her
spare time, crochet, or hand-sew a
hooked rug. She is a champion rid-
er, having once performed in a ro-
déo, and has more than her share
of good looks — a fact attested by
ter having been selected as Miss
Utah. You will be convinced of this
when you see her. In addition, she
is a skilled writer of lyric poetry
and short stories. After seeing her
in this picture you will agree that
she Jias one outstanding talent not
mentioned above. .

“That Forsyte Woman,” starring
Greer Garson (Mrs. Miniver), Er-
rol Flynn (Gentleman Jim Corbit),
Walter Pidgeon (Mr. Miniver), Ja-
net Leigh (the gal in “The Doctor
and the Girl"), and Robert Young
(Claudia’s husband), plays Wed-
nesday and Thursday, This is a
wonderful picture with a theme to
digest thoroughly. It's a story of
happiness vs. marriage, Strange
that the two are always used in
opposition to cach other. Money
doesn’t destroy happiness — it
merely enables you to buy enter-|

Review of “John Loves Mary”

By PHIL MITCHELL

“John Loves Mary,” this year’s
Production of Norman Krasna’s
comedy by the Red and Black Mas-
quers was somewhat better than
their production last year of “Ar-
senic and Old Lace.” This improve-
ment stems from an influx of new
talent, notable, Bill Trotman, and a
choice of a play more suitable for
a college presentation.

Jessie Carter and. T. W, Alfred

in the straight roles left something
to be desired, although they had by
far the most difficult parts. Jes-
sie, as Mary, was a little slow on
the come-back, and her crying
jags were rather unconvincing in
her anticipation of John’s arrival.
She seemed a trifle too. adolescent
to be the grown daughter of a
prominent senator. There is much
to be said for her facial expres-
sion and the manner in which she
carried herself on the stage. She
definitely showed a bit of talent,
and a calmness that would be well
for some of the veteran actors to
emulate,
John, as played by T. W. Aldred,
was an ordinary young man without
expression or emotion, whose only
distinguishing feature was the con-
tinual rubbing of his face with a
handkerchief. His acting and dio-
logue improved as the play pro-
uressed, and with an increase of
experience, he ought to become a
very valuable man to the Mas-
quers.

Bouquets to Woody McKay as
Fred. He was a natural for the part,
which he played excellently; al-

ed

though he fell down slightly on his
more serious lines, His quick ad-
libbing saved many a__ situation
when someone missed a cue.

The majority of bouquets, ap-
plause, and everything else goes to
Bill Trotman and his excelfent por-
trayal of the right honorable Sena-
tor McKinley. « Bill, a newcomer
with plenty of experience and tal-
ent, did a wonderful job of mixing
pompous dignity and dry humor to
turn out a very superior. perform-
ance. He was, without a doubt, the
mainstay of the entire play. As we
have said before, congratulations,

il.

Mary McNeil, as Mrs. McKinley,
did not seem to be able to decide
whether to laugh or cry. Most of
the time, she simply wandered
around as if lost in the intricacies
of the plot. Mac Bulgin was defi-
nitely out of place as General Bid-
dle. He latked the pompousness of
the senator, and his boot-licking
was a little too obvious,

In closing, let us hand out a
bouquet to Wylie Smith and the
Stage crew for an excellent job on
the set, especially the window, and
one to Bob Gay for a good job
of directing. A final word of ad-
monition to Elliot Braxton to re-
Jax and do away with that flaming
nose, and to Nancy Copeland for
her slightly too obvious cockney
accent. The play was generally a
success —- we congratulate the
Masquers for one of their best pro-
ductions.

America’s Place In The World

By GABRIEL LOWE

A few weeks ago a very dis-
tinguished speaker, » man who has
travelled widgly all over the world
spoke before this student body on

America’s place in the world today.
not move without
holds its breath

recent war. It is not an enviable

ed He said that
“America is so

rd
4 _ the rest of the
world trembling;
f: anticipation.”
one, to be the policeman, banker,
and guardian angel of more than

half of the nations of the world.
This position reduced Great Brit-
ain from the world’s greatest and
most respected nation to a third-
rate one, devoid of a stable econo-
my or a military force, and com-
pletely worn out. There is noth-
ing inherent within the British sys-
tem of government or the charac-
ter of her people that would have
reduced her to her present state of
humiliation. It is just that the task
of being the dominant nation in the
world is too great for any nation
to bear over a long period of time,
What made Britain ripe in the
nineteenth century for the kill will
surely reduce the United States
in a much lesser span of years in
the twentieth century.
(Continued on Page Giz)

great and so pow-
and if it does not
This is the position in which the

erful that it can-
move the world
United States emerged from the
