FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

* -

‘but we're going to examine it carefully,

‘game and the other in the Furman contest. A bruised hip slowed

Every since the State game, murmurings of increasing frequency
have been heard among students and alumni, particularly alumni, that
Davidson has a bunch of “tired old. men,’’ and: “goof offs” on the
football team. One alumnus said, “it will be a great day for David-
son football when that bunch of G. I.’s on the team graduates. They
don't want to play football.”

Perhaps all of us have felt that way at one time or another this
year, but if such is the case, we hope in this article to put a different
light on your thinking. Here it is—these so called “goof offs’’ have
been injured, and re-injured to the point where they could hardly
run around, let alone play their best. But in spite of this they ‘have
had the grit to take to the field and play. And what reward have
they gotten? Only the condemnation and scorn of many “arm-chair
quarterbacks.” Of , the very fact that they were in there at all
is evidence enough of determination and will to play.

We dare any coach in the country to produce a list of injuries
suffered during the season that can compare to that which Charley
Jamerson has had to contend with this year. Let’s start at the be-
ginning—even before the whistle blew for the first game, DOUG
RICE was out for the season with. a severe charley horse. He had
been counted on for heavy duty at the wingback slot. Now, what has
developed since the season has been under way? The list is long,

JIM SIFFORD has nad two nose injuries, one in the Richmond

him down for two or three games, and his latest nose injury may

keep him out of action against Rollins tomorrow. AUBURN LAM-

BETH has had his collar bone separated from his sternum, broken “
cartilage in his nose, bruised three ribs and pulled muscle in be-

tween them, sprained the biceps in his right arm, and now has a

charley horse. CHARLEY RIMER, who had part of his collar bone

removed in an operation last year, chipped off another part of his

collar bone and has had to favor this shoulder.

HENRY WILSON has had bruised ribs. DAVEY ERVIN
suffered a bruised hip early in the season and a sprained ankle later.
C. L. RUNYAN was injured in‘the lower part of his back in early
practice sessions. This injury was aggravated during the State game
and has slowed down the bruising fullback in rugning and kicking. |
BOB SHARPE has had a shoulder sprain, shoulder separation, and |
sprained pectoral muscles. CARL EBORN has had a charley horse.
ERNIE STRICKLIN had his hand stepped on and has played the
last three games. with his hand heavily bandaged.

SANDY CARNEGIE, who had enough injuries last year to
force the retirement of a less zealous gridder, has fared better this
year, but has been slowed down by old injuries. Look at this list of
injuries—a sprained neck, arthritis in both knees, all his teeth knocked
out, separation and dislocation of his shoulder, and cartilage taken
out of hig knee: Doubtless Sandy could add*many more.

REA ADAMS injured his shoulder in practice two or three
weeks ago and will be out for the rest of the year. BUDDY CHAND-
LER has had trouble all year with an injury to. one of his arches.
BILL REYNOLDS picked up a charley horse. JOHNNY RICH-
ARDS-was laid up with a badly twisted knee. Big JERRY KISER
hasn’t been out ofsaction but has had two charley horses. BRADY
OSBORNE his ankle badly. DICKIE BLANKS missed
half of the games to a broken shoulder. JAKE WADE played
the Furman game with a twisted knee which he picked up in prac-
tice on Thursday before the game. BOB TURK twisted his knee
early in the year and has played in less than half of the games to
date. And HAL MAPES, who was one of the best defensive ends
in the Conference, was forced out of action after the State game
due to numerous fractures around his left eye. A doctor who ex-
amined Hal said that the bones around his eye “looked like a broken
eee shell.”’

Quite a list, isn’t it, There were still others, but we have hitson
the most important injuries. If you look back over the list, you will
see that PETE. BROWN and MOTT PRICE are the only two
regulars who haven’t been slowed down by injuries of one kind or
another.

We haven’t written this as an excuse for Davidson's poor
showing this year. If that had been our purpose, we would have

dwelt at length on the Cats’ porous pass defense and faulty blocking

By FURMAN WARLICK
Rushing —
Times Yds. Aver-
Carried Gd. age
kambeth: .....:.< 68 81 1.2
ceca Oe 1 34
Runyan: ......::. 103 294 28
Adams 2.22... 21 58 28
| ee fy ),7
“Turner nae: ae 8 —08
Wade, H, -222-6 4 148 3.6
Guiton ..-2.--.. 2! 72 2.3
Wade ji-cwionsen-§—.. dB. BG
Sloan :-..... ae 4 4.0
Bowers auc. 6 3.0
Portals ...... 326 792
PASSING
Player Attempts Comp. Gain
Lambeth -... 99 50 570
Sifford . 20 12 97
(Continued On Page Six)

What The Cats Were Doing . ..

20 YEARS AGO-November 21, 1929...

1. Carolina dvercomes lead to beat Davidson, 26-7.
Captain Thad Brock plays greatést game of career.

.2

10 YEARS AGO—November 23, 1999. . .

1. Gats swamp Erskine with varied attack in final

home game, 32-6.

5 YEARS AGO-—-November 24, 194...
1. Laurinburg downs Wildkittens, 27-7.

9

1 YEAR AGO—November 19,

gives W.&l. Cenerals 21-20

1. Blocked placement
vietory.

week for his brilliant

Davidson beats Mooresville, 33-0.

play against W.&L.

2. Auburn Lambeth was selected Sophomore of the

SAE 8—Pika 6 '
Trying desperately to break back |
into the win column the Pika’s]
played hard ball against the SAE, |
but fell by the score of 8-6, The!
SAE seored a touchdown ona long
Hill and a safety
when the Pika’s intercepted a pass
in’ thett tried to
run it out. The Pika’s scored on a
Hard rough

pass to Monty

end zone and
Colljns-to-Jones pass.
play was the order of the day meal

the SAE coming. out on top

| Beta 4 First Downs Phi Delts 0

Keeping their record clean, the
Betas downed a scrapping Phi Delt
team. A hard game was climaxed in
the final moments by a play which
went over the goal for the losers
but the officials ruled that he was
touched™before crossing, There was
much discussion. The victors were
paced by Smith and Hawkins while
tacon and Whiteheart starred for
the Phi Delts:

“Bustoken” Ellis who
yatds. behind beautiful downfield
blocking by Dave Williams, Char-
ley Pearson and Bob Purecll, ex-
\ll-Staters from Laurinburg, look-
ed geod for the winner.

K. A. 8&—Pi Kapps 0

Scoring on a .nice pass from
Charlie Mitchell. to Harry Back-
man, the K. A defeated the Pi

Kappa Phi's 8-0, and stayed in the
winning column. In their attempt
to down the KA’'s the losers were
lead by Billy Houck.

Phi Gams 5 first downs, Pikas 3

A spirited Phi-Gam team defeat-
ed the Pikas in a very close duel;
5 first downs to 3. The winning
team showed fine spirit throughout
the contest and it was a team vic-
tory. The Pikas were spirited by
trown. and Huffaker.

Kappa Sigs 18—KA 0

Kappa Sigs 2—Phi Delts 0

The Kappa Sigs edged the Phi
Delts 2-0 last Thursday afternoon.
Charley Simmons, Kappa Sig guard
blocked a Phi Delt punt for the
safety which brought victory to the
Kappa Sigs. The game was hard

ithe Phi Delts aining the edge in
| First downs 4-1. The Phi  Delts
missed an excellent scoring oppor-
tunity when they-were on the Kap-

pa Sig’s 5 yard line with firse

and goal to go. A pass by Norman
Whiteheart by

was intercepted

fought from beginning to end. with !'

with frequent outbursts of temper,
the Kappa Stes throttled a scrap-
| ping but crippled KA nine. John
Ellis lead the K. S. Parade with

by Dave Williams. Alldridge play-
ed very good ball for the losers.

Pi Kapps 24—Campus Club 0

Looking impressive the Pi Kapps
downed the Campus Club by the de-
cisive score of 24-0. Leading the
scoring. was Billy Houck with three
touchdowns, supported by Bill Kas-
sels with one, Outstanding for the
Campus Club' was Whitfield.

football season is over, but now

appreciation for what these boys

about it, but we believe that the

and tackling, No, we have tried to write something of the handicap
under which our team was forced to play this year because of mul-
titudinous injuries. This article might well have waited until the

seems better because all of us—

students, faculty and alumni—still have a chance to express our

have done this year. Any one of

them could have hung up his cleats and called it quits for the season,
but none did unless forced to do. We don't know how you feel

student body should in some way

openly express appreciation to this battered band of Davidson Wild-
| cats who have continued to play this year despite what in most

cases would have been overwhelming odds.—G.P.S.

Interfrat Standings

Team Ww
Betas __-..-.-.----- 9
Kappa Sig —------.-- 6
K A's -.---.------- 7
SA E -_L------------ 6
Phi Delt ------------ 5
Pika ~...--.--------- 3
Sigma Chi -.---.---. 3
Phi Gam __.-.--.--.. 3
S P E 7.2 -2------.-- 0
Campus Club —------- 0:

L

~

[. ee Ae oe ee

GREEKS RUN OFF SEVEN GAMES

Crusaders Outlast
Wildkittens, 13-0

By BILL BRADFORD

A. visiting eleven from Lelmont

Abbey conquered the Wildkittens
by a score of 13-0 Iast Friday. Da-
vidson used the TO formation and

it was the first time such a forma-
tion had been used on the campus
ina long time

The Kittens’ playing was a Httle
ragged in the first half and the
Crusaders scored twice in this per
iod, One of these touchdowns was
set up by a long pass and the tull
back plunged over while the other
David
yard

was scored by a long pass.

son drove down to the one

a 5 That. was ‘as

close as they came to

vard penalty.

scoring in
the game

looked much better; they had sprr

‘it and. completely dominated — the
ball but never had quite endugh
punch to push the ball across the

goal

The entire team played well but

linesman; Tueker and Pierce and

backfieldmen Gregg, Stanley, White

and Rowland turned in the finest

performances

In «a very rough game spotted|.

two talleys, the other being scored] -

‘on ee
—

Yes, Camels are SO MILD that
in @ coast-to-coast test of hun-
dreds of men and women who
emoked Camels—and only
Camele—for 30 consecutive days,
making

NOT ONE SINGLE CASE OF THROAT IRRITATION due to smoking CAMELS!

é

P” Minded Freshmen Favored To
Rack Up First Victory of

This afternoon at 3 o'clock, the
Green and Yellow of Lees-McRae
came to the campus to match brains
and brawn with Boyd. Baird's. spir-
ited frosh squad.
the Kittens record of
one tie and two , hasn’t
looked too good on the surface.
tut there is much more than the
tale the scores have told,

The squad has shown sparks. of
brilliance even in losing. The back-
field. operates out of. the “T” for-

Thus. far,

losses

line but the drive was stopped by |

During the second half the squ di

mation. and features a fleet array of
J operators. Among these are A. C,
Bill Rawland, Ray White,
Jack Ruth, and Bill Stanley.

arm should
| get plenty of exercise this afternoon

| Gre

| Rowland's  pitehin’

land will tind ready receivers in
jtowering Dick: Kelly and J. V.
Howell
Chere is. a better than average
line in front of these backs. Stand-
}outs-thus far have been Angers
| Mectnnis, Gene Pierce and Bob
| Fueker, to name a few
In the carher part of the season,
ithe :osh used the double wing for-
mation, however, the backs were
i hetier suited for the “T’') so the
} changeover was made. The boys

j
thave plenty of fig

ht and spivit and
pectatars to stand
up and chéer about.

Th

la toss-up,

how plenty tor
wanie this afternoon rates as
but from here, it looks
' '

like the Nittems by at least a touch-

{oy
jadown

Ce

cigarette?
Camels,
of course!”

Ce

