THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDSTOR IN CHIEF -....... BOB HOLLISTER
BUSIN@SS MANAGER ......... BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jack Hazard -----.-. . Associate Editor
Dovg Hix -.----.-- . Associate Editor

Associate Editor

Arnie Covell .... -- “ Managing Editor
Bill Cumming --- -- Managing Editor
Hartley Hall -..... -- Managing Editor
Neil Leach ----.. — Managing Editor
Tom Mann .-.... - -- Managing Editor
Jim Murray ---- — ----- - Managing Editor

Randy Taylor -. -.
Gordon Scott -..

John Uobart —-
Tom Haller .---.
Watt Jeffries ---.
Bill Hollister —-.
Dan McKeithen -
Cherry. Stribling -

Bill King ---..- wn eon e eee e ee Art Editor
Gabe Lowe ---.. 0 0 o_- anna nn no-no e Columnist
Liston Mills ..--- ~--+.-- Columnist
Henry Wilson .. ---- Columnist
Henry Hansen ..-------- --- Columnist
Charlie Davis --...-.-.-.---..-.-.----- Columnist

SENIOR REPORTER: Pete Kalogridis, Phil
Mitchell, Dick Barnwell, Phil Libby, Bill Neal, Ed
Richardson, Jim Fickeisen and Gene Regen.

REPORTERS—Warren Sims, Dudley Pendleton,
Nat Daniel, Jim Blackburn, Bob Hubbell, Lamarr
Hinson, Tom Allen, George piicMurray, Manly Mec.
Williams, Ben Morris, Bill Bacon.

SPORTS STAFF—Furman Warlick, Bill White,
Phit Hammond, Bryan Robinson, Ed West, Bill
Buckey, Jack Stevenson.

POLL CAT STAFF—lim Carr, Claude Higgin-
botham, Jim Fisher, Parks Dalton, Jim Brown and
Neal Underdown.

WHEATHER REPORT—Trew Gurley and Bill
Sargent.

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager —..... W. S.’ McSwain
Advertising Manager -..-...---.----- Wyhe Smith
Circulation Manager -...--...---. «-. Billy Cassels
Asst. Advertising Manager ...... Chartes ‘Clinkscales
Asst. Advertising Manager -----. Hector McKeithan

Assistant Advertising Manager....David McConnell
Collections Manager. -.----.------. Charles Dockery
Subscriptions Manager .....--.-.------ John Loftin

ASSISTANTS—Bill Cumming, Bill Hart, Bob Erwin,
Bill Pharr, Harold Clayton, Sam Cumming, Rod Shaw.
Gene Taylor, Nelson Tomlinson.

CIRCULATION STAFF—Alex Goley, Parks Dal-
ton, Cecil Rhodes, Ansley Moses, Joe H. Miller, Neill
Underdown, Tommy Halter, John Hardin, Thad Mon-
roe, Hugh Huffaker, Ben Morris, Cam Faison, Paul
Guthry and Phil Willer Ee eee eee ee Ree ans ener ee and Phil Willer.

wildcat Sports

SPORTS SECTION

Curtain Raiser With Mighty Army

Only Two Weeks Away

Since the first of September,
Davidson's grid forces have been |
toiling under the hot sun in prepa-

lhe DAVIDSONIAN Presents

EDITORIALS

o

On Joining A Frat

One of the aspects of college life antici-
pated by virtually every member of any
freshman class is that of fraternities and

. fraternity life.

- Many mistakenly regard this part of col-
lege life as its most important function. Be-
fore going further let us understand exact-
ly what part a fraternity plays in the life
of the average Davidson student. There are
ten Creek letter social fraternities on the
Davidson campus, and one independent or-
ganization known as the Campus Club. The
largest part of the eleven groups take their
meals at their own boarding houses or as a
particular unit at the College dining hall.

pete with teams of other fraternities through-
out the entire series of regularly scheduled
intramural sports. At the three formal dance
week-ends—Homecoming, Midwinters, and
Spring Frolics—each sponsored by the Pan-
Hellenic Council--each group has its allotted
dancing area and during the course of the
week-end, each usually gives a banquet or
stages some other type of entertainment
which is attended only by members of that
particular fraternity or group. Each frater-
nity and the Campus Club also is permitted
one’ off-campus social function each semes-
ter. Aside from these social features, and the
possession by ench fraternity of a small brick
honse in Fraternity Court, there is no dis-
tinction between the activities of fraternity
and non-fraternity men.

As for the question of rush week, it will
be found to be a tedious affair during which
time the freshmen, it is presumed, come to.
know the various fraternities and their mem--
bers. and the fraternities make an effort to
become acquainted with the freshmen. At
the close of rush week, each fraternity is-
sues its bids and the new members or pledges
meet at the house of their choice in order to
formally affiliate themselves.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Each fraternity and the Campus Club or-
ganizes its own athetic teams which com-

In considering membership, each prospec-
tive fraternity man should bear in mind
tyo all-important points. First: That his
expenses do not stop with the payment of
initiation fees, but continue for the four
years he is in college and amount to an ex-
penditure of at least sixty dollars each school
year exclusive of the initiation fee. Second:
That the men in the fraternity of your choice
wil be your constant companions through-
ont your college career, and whether or not
you enjoy their company and they yours
may well make the difference between en-
jovable college days and unhappy ones. This
sevond point applies equally well, of course,
to any’contacts you may make at Davidson.
* Do not act too hastily in the matter of mak-
ing friends during the first six or eight
weeks.

As is true of everything else which may
be desired by a group of any size, there will
be those who are not ineluded. Ifthe reader
be among the number who degire fo join a
fraternity and are unable to do so, what-
ever the reason, any. self-pity is not only
utterly groundless, but supremely stupid.
All. throughout ‘your freshman year men will
be joining fraternities who for one reason or
another did not do so during the course of
rush week: Furthermore, many Suphomores,
Juniors, and even Seniors, join each year.

We sincerely hope every Freshman will
understand this situation as we have tried to
explain it, and realize the foolishness of
feeling in any way left out. ‘The fraternities

are to be taken for exactly what they are—
no more nor less—and for anyone disap-
pointed in failing to receive a bid—the most
practical and best possible advice which
could be given is simply put—forget it.

During the four or five days of rush week.

you will feel most fully at ease and enjoy

yourself most thoronghly by being complete- .

ly natural—free of any efforts toward ereat-
ing false impressions, or doing and saying
anything not truly representative of your-
self. Avoid pretentious behavior, simply re-
* Jax and enjoy the company of those about

LETTERS

DON'T DELAY—GET THE
WILDCAT SPIRIT TODAY!

SAA AAA AAA AA AAA A AAA A SALA ASA 6
SEPTEMBER 9, 1949

you.

We have necessarily omitted a number of
details connected with the fraternity system
and with the general topic of joining a fra-
ternity. If we, the editors of this paper, are
in any way able to assist any member of the
Freshman Class, we shall sincerely be glad
to do so. We wish you success in attaining
every goal toward which you may individual-
ly, or as a class, strive.

Honor System

In an attempt to present Davidson to any
student for the first time, a number of items
may be included which perhaps seem inci-
dental, even irrevelant. There is one point,
however, upon which too much emphasis
could not be placed—the Hovor System.
Standing among Davidson’s most honored
traditions, the Honor System, in a very real
sense, makes Davidson what it is.

Tt is impossible, within the space of two
or three paragraphs, to. convey to° anyone
-nassociated with the college exactly what
the term implies or exactly how one goes
about living up to its demands day by day.
We can only hope to show its influence and
explain its substance in the simplest terms.

The Honor System may be defined—when
it is employed to the full extent of its effec-
tiveness—as the wneonscious acceptance of
an obligation on behalf of each student to-
wards every other student and towards him-
self to constantly conduct himself honestly
and honorably in all that he does. That is

what the term represents in its broadest
ashe, and as such is as applicable on the
athletic field and in the dormitories as it is
in the classroom.

The specific rules and regulations of the
Honor System will be read to all new stu-
dents as a group, and may be consulted
whenever desired by referring to the YMCA
Handbook. While these regulations should
be kept in mind, it is the general principle
whieh, if not already possessed, must be
built inte your life by virtue of employing it

Starting off prac-
tice with 17 lettermen
returning among a
squad of some 50-odd
aspirants, Coach Char-
ley Jamerson is about
to begin his second
year in the driver's
seat of the Davidson
gvidders.

In his first year as
head mentor of the
Cats, Jamerson’s team
posted a season’s rec-
ord of three wins, five

‘| completely

ration for their meeting with the
Knights of the Hudson at West

kven the most ardent Cat sup-
porters can't see any possibility of
a victory in their crystal ball, but
many who have watched the Red:
and Black on-the gridiron year
after year are looking for the
Davidsons to give the Cadets a
mean -scrap. When, the chips are
stacked against them, the Cats are
at their best, 90 don’t be surprised
at anything that may. happen in
beautiful Michie Stadium when the
two elevens meet.

The era of Blanchard and Davis
has passed for the Cadets, but
Coach Earl Blaik isn't ‘crying on
anybody's shoulder about this
year’s prospects. Losing only Bob-
by Stuart from the regular back-
field last year the West Pointers
will have one. of the smoothest
backfields in the East in: Arnic
Galiffa, Gil Stephenson, Jim Cain,
and Bobby Vinson. Galiffa, one of
the most versatile athletes at the
Point, has been prominently men-
tioned for All-America honors at
his quarterback slot. °

The Black Knights have two
of the best flankers in the business
in John Trent and Dan Foldberg.
Foldberg is of All-American cali-
bre and should make the mythical
eleven in a waltz.

The Army game is but the first
in a series of tough tests for the
Wildcats this year. A look at the
schedule will show Davidson faces
roughest competition in years this
season. But from here, it looks like
a vastly improved eleven that will
take the field wearing the Red and
Black.

ATTEND €CRIMMAGE
See the inter-varsity scrimmage
tomorrow, Saturday at 3:00. This
will be your first opportunity to
see the squad, its possibilities, and
how it will stand up against Army
on September 24, in New York. .

Sports in Prominent
Point on the 24th of this month. Role at Davidson

With everybody talking football!
right now, .other sports seem far
removed with the possible excep-
tion ‘of, the exciting finishes in the
major leagues, However, as all you
frosh know, football by no means
furnishes all the enjoyment -in
sports here at D. C. £

Before the football season is over,
Coach Boyd Baird will be working
with some of the basketball team
in the new gym in preparation for
the winter hardwood campaign.

There will be a call for all of you].

who are interested in trying out
for the freshmen squad, as will be
the case in all of the sports here
at Davidson.

While: the men are sharpening
up their shooting eyes upstairs in
the gym, down below grunts and
groans from the new workout room
will remind everybody that Coach
Charley Parker has his wrestling
charges at work. Both of these
sports continue throughout the win.
ter months.

In addition for you admirers of
brute strength and exponents of
physical culture, the newly formed
weight lifting team works out dur.
ing the winter. Last year Davidson
defeated the University of North
Carolina in the first intercollegiate
weight lifting meet ever held in the
South. The field of competition is
not broad yet, but it looks like
a growing sport in this section.

Coach Pete Whittle has charge
of the Cross Country team . which
runs during the fall months and
the track team which works out in
the spring.

Davidson's strong tennis team
begins practice as soon ‘as the cold
weather is over under the guidance
of Coach Derrick Barton. The golf
team begins practicing in prepara-
tion for its matches, and Coach
Jamerson sounds the call for base-
ball practice to get under way.

e

First row, left to right: Buddy Chandler, Bob Sharpe, Auburn Lambeth, Johnny Richards, Bill Van
Story, Charlie Rimer, Cliff Turner, Jerry Kiser, Sandy Carnegie, Rhea Adams, Hoopy Davis. Second
tow: J. B. Stroud, Grant Carlton, Mott Price, Grover Lee, Woody Leach, Bill Reynolds, Dave Erwin,
Marvin Kelly, Johnny Guifon, Jim Sifford, Fred Pryer. Third row: Walter Hankins, Bill McNeely,
Lee Tolbert, Jake Wade, Bob Gibson, Bill Freeman, Curtis Harper, Bill Acher, Jim Fasul, Kirk Oglesby,
Fred Spach. Fourth row: Cecil Brandon, Bill Bowers, Brady Osborne, Doug Rice, John Rittenburg,
Ham Wade, Jim Sloan, Dickie Blanks, Bill Johnsie, Jack Branch. Fifth row: Henry Wilson, Jack Mills,
Carl Eborn, C. L. Runyan, Jim Rodgers, Amos Camp, John Smoot, Bob Turk, Ernie Stricklin, Pete
Brown. Sixth row: Coaches Redding, Jamerson, Brown, Baird, _Erwin, Managers Phil Mitchell,
Rucker Dudley, Bill DuBose, Dave Lafar.

MORE CAT TALES .

Defensively, the Cats should be
much the same as they were last
year. One of the end stots wilf
have to be plugged up, but Jamer-
son should have little trouble in
finding the man for the job from
among the new talent. With Mapes,
on one flank, and such stalwarts
as Sharpe, Chandler, Stricklin,
Eborn, and Carnegie in the middle,
Davidson will field one. of the
strongest forward walls in the con.
ference. All these men are veterans

of three years service on the team
and should réach their peak this
year.

The loss of Williams and
Cheek may present a problem for
the Cats offensive power. Last year,
this glue-fingered duo was on the
receiving end of many a pass which
constituted much of Davidson’s of-
fense. However, Mott Price and
Mapes were to some extent used
on the offense last year, and they,
together with the rising sophomore
prospects ana wingbacks Wade

and Sifford, should be plenty. capa-
ble of grabbing Lambeth’s tosses.
As mentioned before, Lambeth will
show his stuff on the ground also,
and Wade and Sifford will be
around to run the defense ragged
on reverses. The terrific line smash-
ing of Carl Paht and Mac Erwin
will be sorely missed, but Adams,
Osborne, Ham Wade, and Run-
yan have all looked good in prac.
tice sessions.

losses and one tie.

This record will be ‘

bettered this year, but

. FEATURES

in the accomplishment of each day’s
work as it presents itself.

Little mention is made, gen. -
erally during the year, to
the tenets of the Honor System
or their application. It makes itself
known, however, by clean sports-
manship on the athletic fields, un-
locked ‘dormitory rooms, and at
times by professorless examinations
and unsupervised tests, During final
examinations students are often left
alone for extended
periods of time. It is at such times
we are made aware of the very
real effectiveness of the Honor Sys-
tem. More often, however, it is if:
evidence only as it is unconsciously
put into practice by each student in-
dividually, day by day.

When each man acquires this con.
cept as a permanent and integral
part of hi¢ personality, the rules
themselves will be of no importance
—for you will find yourself a part
of all that Davidson represents, and
an active contributor towards and
recipient of the ever-increasing
value of our Honor System.

Study Habits

First, make with yourself an un-

‘breakable resolution that no mat.

ter what you may. wish to he doing,
instead, you will complete vour as-
signed work first, then enjoy your
leisure time. This point is extreme-
ly important. You may believe that
as long as- the work is taken care
of, it matters little exactly when;

‘this is not true. Work or study of

any kind is only half done, if com-
pleted at all, when left until there
is nothing else to do. Study first,
then play.

Second, concerning this second
and last point, let us sav that if
our best friend were coming this

‘Lyear to Davidson or going to any |

other school—for the first time—

and we had opportunity. for but one
piece of advice, it would be this:
Regardless of what it may cost in
time and effort, do the best work
of which you are capable during
the first six weeks of the year. To
establish the impression in the
minds of your professors that. you
are an interested, capable student
during the first six weeks of school
will be an invaluable asset. Never
‘tose sight of this fact. :
We realize, in closing, that this
discussion may be regarded as an
immature repetition of obvious
facts and little attention accorded
it, Tf such is the case, we can only
state that it is our experience that
the student who takes the above
lightly will soon have reason to
regret his short-sighted folly.

By GORDON SCOTT

much depends on sophomore replacements in the gaping holes
left vacant by the graduation of ends Buddy Cheek and Mike
Williams and fullback Carl Pahl. Mae Erwin's play eligibility
at fullback ran out last year which leaves Jamerson minus
the services of his top two plungers.

There are three lettermen returning to battle for the two
end berths. Hal Mapes, probably the best defensive end on the
rad last year, will be back as will Dickie Blanks and Mott

wise. Others who will be trying for a starting assignment in-

di Woody Leach, a junior who was a stand-out flanker on
year’s junior varsity—sophomores Don Lazenby, Tom
Comen Walter Hankins and Bob Turk.

Auburn Lambeth, the Decatur, Ga., passing star, will again
be counted on to spark the Cat offense. Last year, Auburn
ranked with the nation's leading passers throughout the en-
tire season and much of Davidson’s success ‘this year will de-
pend on the continued accuracy of his flipper. Towards the
latter part of last year, Lambeth picked up considerable
yardage on the ground—in addition to his aerial feats— and.
he may develope into the Cats top offensive threat, both in
the air and on the ground. Lambeth will hold down the tail-
back spot along with speedy Cliff Turner of Reidsville and
Doug Rice who was out most of last year due to injuries.

Jim Sifford and Jake Wade will be back on the wings.
Both are lacking in size but are fast and shifty. The fullback
berth is wide open. C. L. Runyon, sparkling sophomore pros-
pect, may get the assignment due to tis punting ability. Two
other sophomores, Brady Osborne and Ham Wade and senior
Rhen Adams are in line to see plenty of action.

Jamerson’s line is as strong as ever in the middle. In ad-
dition to last year’s regulars, Eborn, Carnegie, Richards,
Sharpe, Wilson, Chandler and Stricklin, Coach Charley is
counting heavily upon such rookies as R. G. Gibson, Jerry
Kiser, Jim Fasul and Bill Acker, all standouts on last year's

frosh team.

This short summary has by no means included all of the
men who have been working out with the squad during the
pre-season drills, nor can it be said that only those who have _
been mentioned will play ball. Doubtless, names not even ap- ° .
pearing in this column will be seen in Cat Tales many times

before the season is half over.
