PAGE TWO ~

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .....-.----------------- BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINESS MANAGER ..-..------------ aacannece= BILL HOUCK

EDITORIAL STAFF .
Chief Associate Editor .....-...---.---+-.----- ween nnennen= Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ....-.--- ceccuncceccene--e Lonnie Turnipsee
Chief Associate Editor ...--------.--.+...---------+--- Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, ‘Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor. ;
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors —- Dan McKei-
Art Editor—-Bill King then, Cherry Stribling. .

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager ...-.----------------------
Advertising Managers v J
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation Manager...-----. .. -----2----------------227002 Huffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers ..-.------ Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ....--.--.-----+-~------------------- John foltin
Subscriptions Manager ~---- wecmecnecenenenernecceeneen--= Alex Goley

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Introducing Your Editors:

Although many different students are responsible for the con-
tent, makeup, and publication of the Davidsonian, few ever re-
ceive adequate recognition for the effort they expend from week
to week.

In an earlier issue of this paper there appeared a listing of all
members of both the editorial and business staffs. It is our pur-
pose here to record the activities of the men who are more di-
rectly responsible for the content and makeup of your David-
sonian.

The Davidsonian of 1949-50 is fortunate in that it is able to
call upon the services of one of the most efficient and produe-
tive staffs it has ever known. There are eight managing editors
and three associate editors on the staff. We will discuss each in
the order of the pages with which they are concerned.

The three associate editors — Jack Hazard, Doug Hix, and
Lonnie Twnipseed are in direct control of the entire paper.
These three men decide where within the paper the content
matter of the Davidsonian is to appear, and when it is to ap-

cial”
present faculty rules cach of these

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

The DAVIDSONIAN oresent

_ LETTERS... FEATURES

EDITORIALS ..

CRITICISMS OF FRATERNITIES

A Faculty and Student Opinion Poll

While Davidson’s fraternity sys-
tem seems to serve well enough so
as to merit no drastic rerouting, it
is no bad idea to examine it from
time to time in order that needs for
improvement will not go unattend-
ed. Here are opinions, suggestions,
and criticisms from three profes-
sors and threc students for us to
mull over and consider construc-

tively:

Prof. Baumann:

Fraternities have many good qual.
ities. They have a potential that is
undeveloped. However, by way of
negative criticism of fraternities,
I would like for somcone to de-
fine the typology of the fraternity
man. Of what type is a fraternity
man? Some men are not asked to

join a fraternity because they are

not considered to be of this type.
What is the criterion for defining
this type? ff there is an articulate
criterion, | know that it is cast

aside if it happens to be expedient.

In addition, there is the problem
of exclusiveness that needs con-

sideration. Fraternities, in a sense,

have tended to be exclusive. Ex-

clusive groups, so some sociologists
say, are noted for their intolerance.

Intolerance is a problem in a dem-

ocratic culture.

Rob Palmer:

4
At Davidson there are ten “so-
fraternities; yet under the

groups is allowed only one off-cain-
pus function a semester, Although
on-campus functions are not dis-
couraged, there is only one place,
Erwin Lodge, other than the frater-
nity houses, which is suitable for
a function. Such enjoyable’ activi-
ties as hayrides, parties at Harris
Lake, or afternoon picnics on the
river are termed “off-campus” and
are therefore outlawed if their one
function has already occurred.

pear. These managing editors are directly responsible to them
and they arrange and supervise the duties of the entire staff. ©

Among the managing editors — Hartley Hall is in charge of
make-up and layout for the front or “straight news’’ page. He
and the men working under his capable, if somewhat vociferous,
direction arrange and entitle all front page news items.

On page two is Tom Mann — one of the Davidsonians hardest
workers and the most consi:tent ‘‘idea’’ man. Tom assigns and
makes up-all page two cov, [e works with our column writers
and critics in securing the cut orial page copy.

Bill Hollister is in charge of copy and make-up on page three.
Bill has been working in this position only two weeks, but even
in that short time has made this page more directly the students’

, bage it is eventually to be.

I am sure the social chairmen
would welcome the opportunity to
provide more numerous and, more
varied types of functions. It is my
opinion that the faculty ruling on

Gordon Scott, our sports editor, has the double barrel job of
erganizing and procuring all sports copy for pages four and
five. He is to be commended for keeping up with both inter-
mural and college athletics in fine-fashion.

vim Murray as editor in charge of page six has the thankless
tasi: of juggling, all of the papers’ loose ends and coming up
with a readable back page. Jim is a consistent, dependable man-
ager. He can always be relied upon to construct an interesting
page — on time.

Neill Leach as assignments editor tirelessly holds down one
of the Davidson’s most complicated posts. He is responsible for
the assignment of all news articles. Neill also follows up each
assignment and sees that all available news sources are covered
by our reporters.

Bill Cumming as manager of all cuts appearing in the paper,
works with Neill and the school photographers in securing pic-
tures to be published in conjunction with major news stories.
Bill is another managing editor who can be relied upon con-
sistently to perform his duties thoroughly.

Randy Taylor — copy editor — is responsible for all material
submitted for publications. Randy works with our freshman and
sophomore reporters in an effort to improve the quality of the
Davidsonian’s articles. ,

Arnie Covell, feature editor, makes all. feature assignments
and is directly responsible for the procurement of every feature
or informally written article appearing among these pages.

No Davidsonian could ever boast more editorial staff talent.
For this reason we have becn able to promise the Student Body
the beginning of the fincst series of Davidsonians it has ever
known.

¢ ¢
Hospitality

It has been called to our attention that visitors on the campus,
parents and friends of students, have no very good way of
locating boys they want to find without the co-operation of us
students. Of course, they can find a student directory in the
Guest House and probably some detailed instructions of how to
get there after they know where they are going. But most of
theta would not know about that.

Chances are, they Il asic some student passing by if he knows
‘‘my boy Bill’? and where he is at the moment. It may take a
moment of our sometimes important time to be courteous and
helpful to these visitors, but actually we will be doing the school
and also ourselves a favor by a good turn of that kind.

One mark of a Christian, educated man should be his courtesy
and hospitality. One mark of a Davidson man IS his courtesy
and hospitality.

Speaking to a women’s group, Lady Astor said, “Women, we
have got to make the world safe for men.’’ It’s the best safety
measure yet proposed.

Instead of trying to clear the name of his client, many a Jaw-
yer seems to fight harder to win a delay.

this matter should be amended.

Prof Davidson:

There are not, at present, a suf-
ficient number of social fraterni-
ties at Davidson for the ‘students

who are interested in this type of
activity. For our present size stu.
dent body (or even one of seven

hundred men), we should have at
least three additional chapters of
good national organizations. There
is space for three houses across
the road from the Kappa Sigs,
the Phi Delts and the S.P.E.’s.
With the student body of the type
we have, there should be enough
fraternities for every man interest-
ed to belong to a chapter of not ov-
er fifty or sixty members. There
will always be a large number of
Davidson men who do not care for
fraternities and no pressure should
be brought to bear either to force
them to affiliate or to convince
them that they are missing an im-
portant college activity. Fraterni-
ties are important only in so far
as they have something to contri-
bute of lasting value to the stu-
dent and, through him, to the in-
stitution.

Ken Goodpasture:

There is at the present time much
talk about changing Rush Week
to the second semester. I believe
T will have to take my stand in de-
fense of the present, first semester
rushing system.

First of all in consideration for
the freshmen the second semester
plan would, undoubtedly, be best.
for it would give them a much bet-
ter chance to look over the fra.
ternities, and would also relieve
their “neophyte” minds of some of
the first semester strain which
naturally plagues every struggling
freshman,

However, I think we endanger
our Davidson fraternity system by
putting off the Rush Week. There
is very little basic difference in the
ideals and activities of the David-
son fraternities, and there is a high
degree of competition due to the
fact that every fraternity has sev-
eral. outstanding men with no over-
load of top men in any one frater-
nity. To be frank, as the system
now stands a semi-good fraternity
can fool a good mam into joining
them thus strengthening that fra-
ternity and thus strengthening the
whole group of fraternities.

If the change to second semester
rushing were made, I contend that
the fraternities which happened to
be strony at the time of the change
would continue to be strong and
the rest would become weaker.
This eliminates the competition,
health, and vigor which now exists
in our system,

4

Therefore, though the freshman
may join somewhat blindly, and
though he is a bit over loaded in
first semester responsibilities, 1
think that we will ‘always have a
more equal and more competitive
group of fraternities as the system
now stands.

Prof. Martin:

The fraternity situation at David-
son is unique in two ways — the
lodge system, which enables one
to have close friends and even room-
mates who are members of other
fraternities, and the fact that the
amount of so-called “fraternity ma-
terial’ is more than the fraterni-
ties can take on as members. In
my opinion the former situation
is definitely an asset, while the lat-
ter leads to disappointments, prob-
ably temporary. While the func.
tion of fraternities is essentially so-
cial, it seems that they should take
the opportunity to further not only
social poise, but higher scholar-
ships as well. They should help
make the “Davidson Gentleman”
not a_ self-satisfied, complacent
snob, but rather a gentleman in the
true sense of the word — friendly,
courteous and intelligently aware of
his duties in the community,

Stubby Evans:

Our fraternity system is the best
I’ve yet to witness. With all stu-
dents living together regardless of
fraternal ties, closely knit cliques
are almost non-existent while
other colleges have no interming-
ling and fraternities are closed fac-
tions splitting the school. Rivalry
between fraternities at Davidson
rarely exists except, of course, dur-
ing rush week and occasionally af-
ter a riff during an athletic con-
test. Two conditions have long ser-
ved as equalizers for our system.
They are the ‘fraternity houses
which are uniform and the first
week rushing season which has put
the fraternities on equal footing.
The current protest against the
latter as an academic hazzard to
school life is, however, well ground-
ed, The most potent reasons for
changing the rushing to second
semester, aside from academic ra-
sons is as I see it, to make the
freshmen more unified as a class
and to make the fraternities get on
the ball not for just the single
rush week but for a whole semes-
ter, which might mean for good.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Editor, THE DAVIDSONIAN:
We would like to request. that in

his next article, Mr. Hansen an.

swer these questions: Who and

what is a critic? What is the pur-
pose of criticism?
what is the purpose of the criticisms
printed in the DAVIDSONIAN?

In_ particular,

Jf the purpose of his criticisms

of the artists of the College Con-
cert Series is to present to the view
of the student body the fact that
the Series should be composed of
“great” artists rather than “name”
artists, his crit?cism
justified. No artist should be pre-
sented on the basis of the fact that
he or she is well-known and on no
other basis whatsoever.
pose of the Concert Series should
be to present to the student body
fine music rather than celebrities.

is partially

the pur.

In our opinion, the critic should
approach the performance of an ar-
tist solely on the basis of the beau-
ty, or lack of beauty, and technique
of its presentation. That a critic
should use his criticism purely for
a background upon which to dis-
play his caustic slander and doubt.
ful humor is a despicable thing.
Criticism is not ridicule and when
ridicule is disguised under the
name of criticism, its purpose is
defeated; for who will take into
serious consideration that which
attempts not to edify but to burles-
que? We do not call upon Mr. Han-
sen in the name of the Demo-
cratic Party..or the Presbyterian
Church, U. S., but in the name of
those who would like to see great.

er artists appear on the stage of
Chambers Auditorium.

We hope that in the future, the
editors of the DAVIDSONIAN
will limit their teritical articles to
those that are wholesome and
founded upon good judgment.

Yours very truly,
Perry E. Gragg
Newton mmell

Dear Editor:

In answer to Mr. W. O. Harris’
letter (Davidsonian, November 11),
I would like to say that though
he has apparently rent his spleen
with some supposedly stinging ex-
pletives, Mr. Harris has also evad-
ed the real issue about which the
present wave of criticism is more
deeply, concerned.

If Mr. Harris will listen closely
and read carefully, he will in no
wise detect the promulgation of any
of the suggestions that he implies

Episode With
Typewriter |

(EDITOR’S NOTE: So you
have been complaining about
those typographical mistakes
in the Davidsonian, huh! Well,
read this and you won't think
the mistakes are so bad.)

BY WILLIAM L. NEAL, JR.

I’ve ggott thhe mosst  ped4nic-
tthe mostte permixo- the most
stuborn typeriter thatt mann wver
saw. Whenn’ starr to tyoe a lettet
it alwaus comrs outt somethingg
like thiss. Thhe ting puste won8
coperite wit mee. Alleays somethin
comra uo und the darmddest thengs

cimes ut.

Ate timos it gots wight provik-
eng and K throaten ro hive it op

and thon it cooperates beautifully
with the quick red fox came to the
aid of his fellow countrymen.
Thhe piper thut L wreti fro
gitaacl ipsut and sonds ne yhe mots
ropkoving letters andd I laways go
ot hte typewritre and lepad wigh
teh ting, and simetones it decudes
to hive me coperation. Always tike
hte confussion down dan gett for
or fove witmesses to sigm  thhe
ting, butt iit never doees any good.
—Old Gold and Black (Wofford).

woud be foisted on the student
body by the very courageous mi-
nority who have the foresight to
criticize our method of obtaining
a better way of life.

Nowhere have I heard that all
chapel programs should be abolish-
ed; nor have I heard any requests
for Sunday vespers to be cancelled;
nor have I heard appeals for the
opening of an ABC Store in David.
son; nor have I heard of sugges-
tions that we drop Bible, sopho-
more English, ROTC, or some oth-
er recently-under-fire-items. No one
has suggested that the Editor of
the Davidsonian be shot, nor have
T heard of a motion that the YMCA
be abolished.

As the person who this year gave

impetus to an over-all policy of
justifiable criticism was Dr. Aber-
nathy, it might have been well if
Mr. Harris had attended the meet-
ing of the staff of the Davidsonian
which Dr. Abernathy addressed.
* Substantially, Dr. Abernathy re.
peated what he said in the memorial
chapel program. To wit: “There
are some things wrong with Da-
vidson, Let us analyze, criticize
and correct them.”

To come to any such conclu-
sions as Mr. Harris reached in such
emotional phraseology is to my
mind beneath the dignity of a pro-
fessed Davidson student of the type
which Mr. Harris considers him-
self.

Admittedly, I have made no at-
tempt to answer Mr. Harris’ let-
ter in respect to the charges he
made that we have had enough criti-
cism of the various functions at
Davidson that he mentioned. I
have, however, tried to say that
that was not the topic of the re-
cent barrage of critical views, but
rather that we could do a better job
in each of the functions previous-

ly reviewed, by honest criticism
with intent to build, not to tear
down.

-—Bob Johnson.

FUZZ

The writer spent last week end
attending the Social Science Forum
held at Women’s College in Greens-
boro, N. C. The forum, bringing to-
gether eminent figures in the fields
of economics, political science, phi-

2 losophy and poli-
‘ tics to discuss
a such explo sive
7d topics as minori.
M ties, the welfare
state, and the
threat of bigness
in business, labor
and government,
seemed on the
whole more im.
pressive for the questions it raised
than for the conclusions it reached.
(The keynote appeared to be an
idealistic brand of economic de-
terminism. Senator Douglas pro-
vided the melancholy spectacle of
a fine economist unable to express
his real views for fear of losing
votes; he was willing to affirm only
his opposition to bigness anywhere,
except in trade unions, and his
wholehearted support of labor, the
farmer and democracy. There was
too much emphasis on pure theory,
particularly on the assumption that
all you needed to do to perfect man
was to perfect his institutions). Still
the: forum was valuable because of
the issues it caised and the interest

Y FIZZES....

By CHARLIE DAVIS

it aroused. Consistent student at-
tendance nearly filled Aycock Au.

‘ditorium during the night sessions:

delegates were present from as far
away as Sophie Newcomb College
in New Orleans. After their pre-
pared comments, the authorities had
to face a barrage of biting ques-
tions, All in all, the writer could
not help feeling ashamed that he
had never attended a similar event
at Davidson. Our lecture series, un-
happily, is noted neither for con-
troversy nor for interest.

This and other facts, together
with recent authoritarian outbursts
in the Davidsonian, make us won.
der whether the college is choos.
ing the best means to achieve its
avowed end of Christian education.
We are all in favor of that end;
otherwise we would not be here.
But we may disagree as to the best
way to reach our goal. Just as se-
curity kills imagination, so unani-
mity may kill thought and tend to
weaken conviction. Homogeniety,
up to a point, is good; so is a stable
base of doctrine and belief. But a
dead calm of conformity, we be-
lieve, will. not produce the type of
Christian leadership able to breast
the icy waters of the contemporary
world. Is Davidson a safe place to
send your boy? Not unless she pre.

(Continued On Page Three)

LITERARY SOCIETIES?

Of all the types of organizations
on the campus which can be called
extra-curricular, the literary so-
cieties would best deserve the ap-
pelation of dead letter. It would
seem that there is almost no single
phase of their rather limited serv-
ices to the student body as a whole
which might not just as well, if
not better, be performed by some
other organization. Whatever may
be said against some other organiza-
tions, this particular’ charge can-
not, with any justification, be
thrown against: them. The David-
sonian, the Scripts 'n Pranks, and
several others, though they may not

‘serve as well as they might, can

claim, that no other organization
could serve at all in the particular
region of their activities,

This is a serious charge. The
writer does not know just exactly
what the purpose of these organi-
zations supposedly devoted to liter-
ary upliftment actually is. If the
purposes of the literary groups, as a
whole, is to form an elite inner cir-
cle which will benefit only those
who are fortunate: enough to be
members, then this criticism ig un.
warranted. But, even granting this
as their purpose, it is rather sur-
prising upon an examination of their
membership to find that approxi-
mately forty per cent have never
displayed the slightest indications
of literary or oratorical talent. This
forty per cent can say, with ques-
tionable pride, that none or at the
most one or two of their literary
works, have appeared in the two
publications where, for lack of any
other, we naturally look to find

evidence of any reason for this
group’s membership in these liter-
ary groups. Some of this group, of
course, have distinguished them-
selves in the literary field while
not actually writing, i.e., they have
served in various capacities on the
staffs of our two publications. But
this number is fairly small and
when all allowances have been
made for any valid reason other
than creative writing as a_ basis
for membership, then we still find
thirty per cent whose right to be
members of literary organizations
is tenuous. :

What then, has been the-basis for
admittance of this thirty per cent.
While in this particular connection
the word “pull” sounds somewhat
ugly, it must We used—since there
is no other visible basis for an
explanation of their membership.

Perhaps thege organizations do
not wish to serve the student body.
It is assumed, however, that they
do. If this is true, then it is suggest-
ed that these organizations here-
after take as members those who
deserve membership, Perhaps their
value to the campus and student
body at large will increase when
all of their members are sincerely
interested in bringing the fruits of
their literary endeavor to everyone.

This editorial does not minimize
the efforts which have been made.
It merely suggests that these ef-

forts might be made more often
and more effectively if the literary
societies numbered in their mem-
bership those men whose value to
the literary world is clear.

Elliot Social Science Forum

‘‘WHAT WE OUGHT TO KNOW V8. WHAT WE DON’T DO”
By TOM ABEL

The Eltiot Social-Science Forum
held in Greensboro last week was
not the best of its kind ever held,
but certainly no worse than aver.
age. Many eminent speakers took
part, among them Drs. Louis Hack-
er and Otto Klineberg, Columbia
University, Dr. Glenn Negley of
Duke, and Senator Paul Douglas
of Illinois, formerly with the Econ-
omics Department of the Univer-
sity of Chicago. Dr. Quincy Wright
was also present, but unfortunate-
ly didn’? get a chance .to say much
due to the eloquence of Senator
Douglas.

The program, briefly outlined,
consisted of a main topic each
morning and evening with panel dis-
cussions in the interim, Some of
the topics under discussion were
“The Welfare State,” “Nationalism,
Myth or Reality,” (better stated:
“Realistic Myth’), and “The Prob-
lem of Minorities.’ The keynote
discussion, “What We Know vs.
What We Do,” proved to be more
like “What We Ought to Know
vs. What We Don't Do.” Of course
that is the fecling which should be
left with the audience after any

good forum.

One of the main fallacies in the
earlier talks was the speakers’ dis-
cussing various solutions to certain

problems with the attitude that hu-
man beings are perfect little ma-
chines, just waiting for some great
plan to lead them in the right di-
rection. In the last discussion the
greatest difficulties arose from po-
litical pressures, which kept Sen-’
ator Douglas literally shaking in
his boots. Yea verily, some of the
answers received to questions from
the floor were as those handed
down by the Delphic Oracle of
old, '

Dr. Glenn Negley of Duke con-
ducted one of the best panels held
on Russia vs. United States. He
attempted to prove that basically
the U. S. system of values differs
only slightly from that of the Rus-
sians, the greatest schism between
the two ideologies being the meth.
ods used by each nation to achieve
a common purpose. It was brought
out that Russia very definitely has
a competitive system of business.
for if a man works up ta a good
job, he will be pretty well off, even
by our standards. On the other hand,
if he fails, he doesn't get fired, but
shot. How could any system be
any more competitive than that —
to the individual at least?

Although Senator Douglas’ open.
‘ing speech of the final forum, “Next

(Continued On Page Three)
