Army Replaces Guilford On Revised Wildcat G

ridiron

Schedule

THE BIGGER THEY COME—

THE HARDER THE FALL!

ALENDA LUX UBJI ORTA LIBERTAS

IN CADET'S SEASON OPENER

» By BILL
Davidson College's athletic

WHITE
scope received its first post-

var widening last Saturday morning with the announcement

that the 1949 edition of the W

ildeats ‘would meet the United

States Military Academy at WeSt’Point, September 24, in the

opening game for both school

it was also wel-¢
comed by Davidson in that it will |
the Wildcat shot
the arm’? Head Coach Char

ley Jamerson commented, and many,
that the
vo a long way toward bringing good
football to that
might have drifted to bigger schools

to

by Army officials

vive schedule “a
in

will

have theorized ame

material Davidson
with more tempting schedules
offer,

The Presbyterians, with 19 letter-
men returning, will now travel from
West to Winter Park, Fla.

where they will meet Rollins Col-

Point

lege, another neweomer to the Cat

card for 1949,
The announcement by Athletic
Director Norman Shepard of the

Army addition was the second re-
the Davidson
it had

Citadel

Thanksgiving

schedule.
to
slate Char-
lotte Vhat
game still stands, and it will close
out. the
this autumn,

in

Vision

been revised

dally
the
on

meeting in

Day.
ten-game Davidson card

\rmy, fifth ranking team in the
\ssociated Press poll final ratings,
called Shepard requesting the game
au Week ago yesterday when Hawaii
the Shepard
plied that the Davidsonians would

cancelled opener, re-

be glad to accept th® game if they

could clear the date on the sehed-
ule.-The Guilford game was post-
poned until 1950) and» Wofford

ugreed to move their meeting with
the Wildcats
lid-lifter to an October date.

The meeting between the David
sonians and the lack
the Hudson will be the third in the
In 1929

from the September

Knights ‘ot

history of the two schools

Davidson bowed to the Keydets,
23-7, and again in 1934 Army’
power prevailed in a 41-0 — yietory

over Coach Doe Newton's Red and
Blacks.
Coach Charley, in annguncing

opening yrid drills this week, com
Notre
Dame and adding Davidson, whereas

mented: “Army is dropping

we are dropping Guilford and add-
ing Army; but if they think they
are getting themselves into an easy
opener, they're sadly mistaken,”’
Jamerson the first

days of the off-season practice ses-

viewed few
sion with the summarizing eye that
ends and fullbacks the
spots on next fall's squad,
Buddy Cheek, Mike Williamsy Dill
Johnson, and possibly Hal Mapes
will not return next year on the
(Continued On Page Three)

are vacant

Davidson Remains In
Collegiate Council

By JIM BLACKBURN
A meeting of the Intercollegiate
Council for Religion in Life in the
Charlotte area held in the
“Y" lounge at 4:30 Tuesday after-
noon, The purpose of this meeting

was

was to discuss ways and means
of Davidson's greater participation
in the work of this council and

Whether or not to continue. mem-

bership in it. Heretofore, David-
son’s representation at the mect-
ings of this council held’at Barba-

Although the contest was sought

Dr. Eberhardt Speaks
In Lecture Series

By BILL NEAL
On January 24, Dr, Charles R.
k:berhardt, of the Davidson College
Bible Department began a series of

lectures at the Biblical Seminary
in New York. During this series
he made public his findings from

an extensive study of the works
of his former teacher, the late Dr.
Wilbert Webster White, founder

and, for 39 years, president of the

| semunary.

Shortly before his death Dr.

White expressed a desire that his

documents be

preserved and ap-

pointed Dr. Eberhardt to be the
collector.

Dr. Eberhardt has edited the

material, and it is soon to be pub-
lished. It was from this study that
his lecture, based on the theme of
“Biblical Foundations of the Chris-

tian Ministry,” was taken,
lr. Eberhardt appeared on the
program with Dr, John R. Mott,

honorary president. of the World
Council Church, and Dr,
Edwin Drew, eminent theologian
from Drew Theological Seminary..

ot

Photo Club Elects
Lindsay President

“We still
state,” and welcome new members
as well as donations of dark room
commented Art Lind-
ay, president of the recently or-

are in a nebulous

”

equipment,

ganized Davidson Photography
Club which at present has head-
quarters in a small darkroom in

of Watts.

The formal organization of the
began in November with a
meeting of interested students,
Discussing at this meeting the best
Way to use an allotment of money
ffom the Dowd Gift for
photography, it was de-
cided to form an organization of
all interested photographers
school.

At. the,first informal
the ¢lub, Art Lindsay was
elected presidént; Bob Johnson,
secretary-treasurer, and John Ste
wart ,faculty adviser. Also rules
to memberships were

the basement

club

set aside

student
in

meeting

of

applying
adopted,

The only requirements for ad-
missian are the--payment of a
five dollar annual membership fee,
and to be a_ student in good
academic standing. The darkroom
and equipment are now being as-

sembled, as much as» possible,
through donations. Later comple-
mentary purchases will be made

to furnish adequate means to de-
velop’ and print a large variety
ol photographs.

The immediate, plans besides the
darkroom are to get as many
members as possible and to set up
schedule for use of the dark-
room.

a

Looking into the future, Presi-
dent Lindsay said he thought that

DAVIDSON, NORE CAROLINA, FRIDAY, JANUARY 2s, 1949

DORSEY CONCERT TO LAUNCH

This past Monday in chapel the wanted to go on to higher institu
student body heard Dr. W.-G. Me-) tion of learning and do graduate
Gavock, professor of mathematics, work secondly, the companionship
speak on the “Trofession ef Peach with bovs would Inc ovable to
ing.” With his enlightening wit and) thems and, lastly, the person would
sense of humor, rote MMi e in touch with ‘ MUTE
Gavock kept the tudents wid e, helptal rl
awake with a@ very interest tit | yan ‘

Dr. MéGavoek beoan would do
saying thie io } 1 ect t n
and) prep schools wanted yx I but thi thie
sion to send representative ‘ ‘ uote
Davidson in order to fi faraitiicdesiiet ‘ 14 Mf
tive teachers auron Gavouke-endauintotirei teas
would be graduated in 4 rT eect the. peofesstinr—one
Veachers are needed i i Sul ive sane free tiie andl
mumerous schools want to hoe HAiANeeliecAiiladente
Whether Davidson graduat an t iiportant ‘subject. the
considering this as their prote mt \ F

: peaker potted out, Was that, even

Speaking directly «to the whole ‘iit hatin Rninererntt fac taki
student body, especially tou raciiinernaged can ACRRY
seniors, the speaker explained. to { AUG caine i wii
them to bear i min and to think Pee certainly was no i
seriously about this worthwhilesvo- | poe gue a mitanceoleletoreliiurpiit
cation, It would help much ine the iy BIHAN Ce Ried the
attainment of | ledge fe t ‘ ent Wo }
teacher, besides pr n 1 ut
ment for himsell i onchision 1) | ‘

Three reasons why men enter the ot! it 20) | eck Davidson
teaching = profession wet com ‘ ; tes Would, at son A701

the oller, be m thes te ! pre
mented on by Dr. MeGavoek. First. | peccion te med: Hi Gated
it gaye them time tO think « hoped many _stideits would’ ad
profession which they micht +4 tere—to-the pteatromthe—varront
more interested in, and the ex chow mid’ consider th possi
perience and knowledge uined | Dailitre ot neh a valued prot
would be of value to them it th on.

P| !
JOHNNY SATTERFIELD'S SET
CITED AS SEASON'S FINEST

4 ;
By ARNIE COVALL ductor OF troup. Elis own repu

The Pan-Hellenic Council has } tation pianist and arranger has
campleted and-is exccuting plans |attracted to Satterfield many of the
for the annual Midwinter Dances, | South's musicians of talent, of
which are to take place February 4] which he has an abundance. Fea
and 5 at the Morris Field gym-]tured are vagalist’ Ruth  Jistice,
nasium, with Johnny Satterfield and | tenor saxophonist San Andrews,
his orchestra setting@the pace. alto ophonist . dim Crawford,

Hours for the formal dance of | trumpeters Chuck Simpson and
Friday night, February .4, have] Jerry MeDuffie, and tromfonist
been set at from 9 untik l. Phe Van-} Norman Deatrey
Hell fivure, a traditional decorative satterticld’s ar ten that du
flourished added to the occasi will music possess both diinceability and
be held during the thirty minute | listenability, distineui his band
intermission, The informal dance of | from the large (@ajority of similar
Saturday night, February will be | organizations
from 9 til 12, This second of ul Phe popularit sluch has been
two dances was scheduled for “no] attributed Sattertidld is evidenced
earlier an-hour than 9 po m., so as} by>the fact that many of the larger
not to conflict with the numerous | colleges and universities of the
fraternity banquets and dimilar fune- | Southeast: bool repeatedly,
tions glso slated for that night. To \side® from the fact that several
compensate for the late start, how- | Pan-Hell inember » have heard

ever, the intermission will last only
fifteen

Johnny
piece orchestra from the University

minutes

Satterfield’s seventeen- |

of North Carolina, will render musie

for the pair of promenades. Sat
terfield, who studied miusie at the
University of California and the

of North
Composer, arranger, pianist and con-

Universi Carolina, is

Satterfeld vouch tor his fine repu

tation, Metronome Mar Mavazine

bes colle

pates lis as the band
the South

The Valentine
the f thes

dances,

jute
in
will strike
Midwinter’s
wilt

SCUSOM

key note «

and decorations

this

The price ofoa set ticket is $6.00,
(Continued On Page Four)

center

about idea.

|The Davidsonian

$40,000 GOAL SET

FOR STUDENTS

DRIVE

ARMY CHALLENGES DAVIDSON eGavock Tells Of Teaching as Profession 8! UDENTS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM EFFORT

OPENS WITH TWO ENGAGEMENTS BY T. D.

By WATT JEFFRIES

Tuesday's chapel progriun was highlighted by an announcement that

his orchestra would make a visit to the hill in

the near future. Pan-Hell President Bill Serugg:
stated that Dorsey's concert on Kebruary Ith would open the drive for funds which is being

Tommy Dorsey and

promoted by the Student Development Committee. The TD band will feature the Master of
the trombone himself, the Sentimentalists, Denny Dennis; andtbtreyvtnePolk, with Louise
oe - Sere ——? Belson on the drums. The Senti.
/ lFerenreattata will sing a number by
BEAT ARMY’ SPIRIT DISPLAYED: =
eee thre litte drive tor

; } fards
IN STUDENTFACULTY POLL ne
; me jon the campus is the result of a
| ing of the Student Develop-
Tleadlines in the Charlotte Observer of last Saturday @M-Fiment Committee last Wednesday
Houneing the Davidson Army game next September have caused |aiternoon in’ the faculty room of
a owreat deal of excitement at Davidson, Since then the game | Chambers. Its purpose was to out-
: ; ; Tine detinite’plans for student par-
has been the major topie of COTA oy the SUIS UTS rate tian in’ the school develope
order to determine a concensus, the Davidsonian has questioned liment program, The campus leaders
members of the student body, foot |schdol publicity, development pro-] were called to order by Dr. Cun-
vall team and’ t t\ lhe more}gramy and for the moral of the} ningham, who sueeested objectives
epresentative —« 1 vem an j student body as a-whole, And as| that might be set forth by the group,
cluded in this at Coach Charley says, ‘Army ‘willland then turned the m ovet
Whe attitude ot tudent “body | know that they were in a football! to Carl Vahl \ wa
lead ntervic irked by | game. ">—Randy  Habnich Fealled for as to the an to be
eneral enthusiasm: and approval of | “Phat’s a long way to go to get [tional basis with v it is to be
the  Dirvidson-'A \ une, Cart}our,name in a single edition of al set as the eval and the organiza
Vahl said, “The Davidson-Army }few more papers, but the team! secured. It yas pointed out that
game is a step fh ad in improy- fought td enjoy it—if they live.’ there ‘ ede group of people,
ing our foothall schedule.” Pahl was | Wallace Pack especially in the smaller communi
in faver of gontinint the series | Vhe attitude of members‘of next ties, whoo will not be contacted by
with Ari and aweas-ot the opinion, year's. varisty team —is— marked by-representatives of th CONeEE— Who
that thou we ve stim chanees,| determination, Statesments of two! would like to expre their interest
Ht oberting Army, we will give them [returning lettermen are as follows }in the future of the college By
i wood fight, MeNeill Upehureh | “The, reason this year’s seniors | donating to the drive. With this in
vas of the opinionothat “the game | seheduled nest year’s varsity for almind, the committee agreed om S40,-
itl rmy ois a good thing: He ame at the end of springs practice, 000 as a goal for the student body,
did, “Pt will help our ball club a | Was so. they would be able to say | with the hope that each student
vreat deal by drawing freshmatr| that they beat the team that beat | might contact those in his own com-
athletic amaterial which would not} Army. The reasdn Army didn't imanity who are interested in’ the
ordinarily, have been- attracted by [Ssehedule, us last year was Decause ;college and who will not: be! con-
Davidson’s previous schedule.” Up-| Red Blaik was afraid we'd beat the }tacted otherwise. The fund will go
chufeh wascin favor of continuing j Steffy” out of “em.” —Bill Iverson. |toward the construction of the pool
the series if possible; however, he| “Realizing that Army was¢thelin the gym, ‘and a bronze plague

dubious chances | third ranked team in the country

Wil of Davidson’ |

to- win the game. Ernest Hunter j last year makes our chances look
pointed out that, “It will help the | kind of slim, plus the facet that our
chool to get national publicity.’ |recerd? wasn’t at all impressive last
As to the possibility of Davidson's |season. With the addition” of some
winning, Hunter said, “t hope so; | top notch freshmen who really know
{ feel_that there is a chance.” Hel the meaning of the word ‘fight,’
would also like to see “the series |Coach Red Blaik is going to know
continued. John MeNait commented | Hrat he has been in a serap when
that he was looking forward to a ]our September date with, them
reat wame even the possibility of /Comes around next tall) Jake
a elesee aint Wade,

Whe tudent body in veneral|  Uhe professors who were queried
comed to be in favor of playing [did not seem to be quite as en
\rmiy; however, opinions are many | thlusiastic as the members of the stu
ind varied, Some of the opinions | dent body, Although a few were
expressed are as follows optimistic, the majority of them

Good «idea Like to see—then were not overjoyous of the fact.
play down here sometime’ ’=-Seott | ome even commented that) they
Verner thought it unwise to play Army, a

wa! be owery valuable pub- {as b¥ought out by a professor who |
licity 160 the school in its develop jremarked, “We're darn fools!"
went program, It may renew con-| A few of the representative
tact between Davidson and some of |Opinions of the faculty are as fol
its alumni who may have lost touch | lows:
with the school, | think it will do| “It’s a good thing, but I think it
m to build up team morale and | Would not be wise to play a team
student body spirit.’-—Bill Peters. |like Army every year,” —Johnston,

“TL think it will do much for the} ~“We’re not in an enviable posi-

jtion. It will not be good publicity

|because if they bet us very badly,

}it will leave a bad impression of

Doc White Gives Boot To Clemson Player; ister nore vt tave nes

Remains Staff's Most Valuable Member

The center bent ONE, the ball. The

team lined up, the signals were
called and the ball snapped to J. D.
Ashmore for a right-end run, A

huge Clemson player broke through
and brought the runner down with
a none-too-gentle tackle immediate-
ly in front of the Davidson bench.
Almost instantly. a rather small thin
man wearing regular street clothes
and a well-worn brown hat
up from the

sprang
_Dayidson

scotia and John C. Smith, neigh-
boring colored schools, who with
Davidson, make up the member-

ship of the council, has been dis-
couragingly small.

John Miller opened the meeting
with prayer and then recounted
the history of the organization. He
stated that there 5 similar
intercollegiate councils in the
South, The Charlotte — Inter-
collegiate Council was formed in
1945 largely through the efforts of
Dr. Kenneth. Foreman of the

are

(Continued. On Pagé Four):

regular meetings with guest
speakers on photography would be
a project worth ‘working on;

Faculty Adyiser Stewart also men-
tioned that the group was looking
forward to an exhibit at the yearly
art festival.

No’ wonder women enjoy bridge
parties. A woman can play her hand
and at the same time listen to every-
thing being whispered at other
tables, :

bench, charged onto the field, and
drew his foot back as if to execute
a perfect 50-yard field goal with the
Clemson player graciously, yet un-
knowingly, acting the ball
Everyone was too amazed to act
and the field goal attempt would
doubtless have been successful had
not the Davidson coach, Gene Mc-
Ever, at the last minute, dashed out
and stopped the kicker—the result
being that the Clemson .man was

as

deprived of his free plane ride and

| his Pitsctitposibiais

By PETE KALOGRIDIS
Doe White did

points Davidson
Although kicking 1.
Doc, he

to be one of the most loyal of att

score liis
1943,
merely a side

not

tor MW.

line with might well claim
Davidson supporters throughout the
1933
when he was first employed by the
Athletic Doe

served in various capacities, ranging

history of the college. Since

Department, has

from trainer to equipment manager,
being bead
maintenance man,

But the title of the

positions he has held, to the Boys

whatever

on the teams Doe is the fellow who
is always there with the right thing
at the wight time. He is the person
who issues ‘and takes care of equip-
ment, does the other small
but things
which go into keeping a team-sup-
plied and in shape, and always. has

a smile and a word of encourage-

many

nevertheless important

ment jor eyeryone. The players who

three |

jheard of it before.”’—VDietenpol.
will not
j make any prediction as to the out-

‘Good financial move. |

}come, but regardless of the outcome,

| ; ¢
it will be good publicity as far as
i -;|spreading the name of the college
have come to know Doc feel as if}. r ,
4 }is concerned. The fact. that-\rmy
he is an inseparable part of the] ; ' P Pe
| ee ; | deigns to notice us is significant.
team and displayetheir affection for

\ It

will “‘bive the players a chance

him and thei appreciation for the ; ; ay
éf to see a biz city——broad education!
work which he ds dome throuel an | ;
5 Greet,
annual ‘giftefrom all the fellows. frie ean ‘
ae Praise the Lord! I'm glad we're
Nor is this affection one-sided. ; Sieh
playing Army rather than Guilford,
One needs to but speak to Doc

‘ ; ; The student body should go to mass
White concerning a Davidson team ” te ao

5 the day before the game!"—Bau-
in order_to vibw the almost paternal i

: j man,
attitude he assumes towards the in- : We eal
Gividual pla vctinmebbemiten—spedtkse——— . = —
of the enjoyment he receives “from z :
helping take care of the boys’ and Wheather Report
of how for sixteen years he has seen se : {

The forecast for Davidson and

players fresh from high school ab-
he calls “the

spirit” dyring Itheir stay et David-

sorb) what college | Vicinity for the week-end calls for

continued mild with partly cloudy

son, skies. Slightly cooler weather Satur-

For Doe. White may not be able {day night or Sunday. Daytime tem-

to kick field goals, but he has proved | peratures will be in the fifties on

himself capable of earning an}|Sunday after falling from the mid

honored position in Davidson ath-| sixties on Saturday to near 40 Sta-

letics, urday night,

Jwill recognize the student body gift
| dt was decid

would

the

student
organized on a
fraternity basis, each fraternity, the

eampiaign be

Campus Club and the independents

setting its own yoal, Furthér™de-
tails will be decidedgon by the stu-
dent executive tee composed
of Carl, Pahl Mez Mac
Harty Hatrison Vaylor and the Pan

(Continued On Page Four)

Miss Steele Is

Convalescing

| By JIM MURRAY

ean Ori Steele has been
forced by illne to be absent for
the past month trom her duties
as Davidson's receptionist. Taken
ill just before the Christmas holi-
days, she received: treatment at
Memorial Hospital in Charlotte

before her removal last week

to

Mletcher,

Mountain Sanatori

N. + Where si is. convalescing
at present :

Miss Steele has been an active
force on the Davidson campus
during the administrations of thre+
presidents. Not « native North
Carolinian, she came here from
Rock Hill, S. C., to becomé ‘the
secretary of Dr. W. J. Martin. Her
service in this capacity continued
througheutale term of office of

Lingle and with Dr

Dr, Cunning
'

ham until la

year n shé Devan

her new and varied duties
As receptionist, Mi Steele is
the first to meet visitors on. the
campus, entertaining «them and

supplying infor on about David-

son College. She 1s also in charge

of preparing the college calendar’
and the Sum evening yvesper
‘balfetin, Tir her new office, Miss
Steele is well situated. to maintain
her interest in. the students | of
Davidson. Her ever tyereasing
group of friends among the. stu-

dent body and alumni make her of-
fice of the
who

one places visited by

everyone returns) to the cam-
pus.

When Miss, Steele is once more
able to take

Visitors and

activities,
Davidsonians

over her
former

will again have their Cariipus.cen-

ter im operation,
