Recent happen-
ings on the dia-
mond have shown
that Coach Charley
Jamerson has fash-
joned a baseball
team. After a dis-
astrous southern
swing during spring
holidays, the locals
have bouneed back
io carve several
notches in the vic-
tory column. He
has unearthed %
mound corps which
may help him forget
Diek Marlowe.
Charleton Torrence

By JACK HAZARD

jooked great in both his outings against N.C. State. He eave
up six hits both times, but Joose infield play cost him the first
contest. He showed signs of tiring in the ninth inning in
last weeks’ verdict, but managed to hold out to the end.

Dutch Hengeveld looked effective in stopping William and
Mary on six. hits, but wildness cost him the dussle against
South Carotina. Duteh has also swune a mean bat in his few
plate appearances. Unofficially, he is the top batter on the
club,

Lefty Jim Hunter came up with a nifty exhibition in
pinning a 7-5 defeat on The Citadel. He gave up nine hits, ae
cording to the Charleston” scorekeeper, but the Davidson
scorer, Jim Rittervold, charted four of these to infield iis
cues. Titer sides with the latter’s judemenit

If Norman Whiteheart was eligible for trips, Jamerson
would worry even less. Scholastic difficulties have nailed
Norman to duty only on the local hill, His absence was prob
ably most’ sorely felt at Columbia when South Carolina
picked at a Davidson lead and came home the winner,

Bill Bird’s. showing at third base have more than lived
up to expectations. Bill was the number two man at the
plate last year behind Auburn Lambeth’s potent mark. This
year the hot corner guardian is pacing the crew with an
average which is hovering around 3880, He and Lambeth both
slammed home runs in the South Carolina tilt. Buddy Chand-
ler turned the trick against The Citadel and Charley Peat.
son had previously done it against State

Orchids should also go out to Bert Anderton and Dick
Richards who have filled what appeared to be gaping holes
ut the season's outset. They have taken over the outfield
berths vacated by Jack Burris and Carl Shepard. Both Ander
ton and Richards are seniors and have been around for sev:
eral years. Bert alternated at third base with Bird, and Dick
was listed as a pitcher, though he has at various times filled
in at first base and in the garden.

Coach Derrick Baktoi\ fielded a freshman tennis squad
this past week which follawed right in the steps of the
varsity in its quest of all comers. riday, they had little

“stréuble in trouneing Central High of Charlotte, 6-2. Alan

Strand, Jack Stevenson and Pete Kalogridis had little trouble
in grinding out wins, Dewey Keesler, playing number one,
faced a sterner test as he had to come from behind to top kid
brother Lacy,

Only Ham Wade and Sandy Morton found the prep lads
foo tough. In doubles Stevenson paired with Keesler and
Wade teamed with Strand to hang up two more verdicts,
Kalogridis ‘and Morton were ahead when their mateh was
halted b¥ darkness.

Up at Raleigh Tuesday, the Yearling’gutinen turned the
trick again and came home with another 6-2 triumph, Strand,
Keisler, Stevenson and Kalogridis oame out on top and the
same Winning combines as in the Central match were vie-
torious. The third doubles mateh was halted by darkness
with Kalogridis and Morton holding the edge.

Barton should find tennis material for several years if
the pres*nt crop of frosh continue in this pace.

The completion of three lower courts has been a definite
aid-to the racquet wielders.-The lastfour-are being worked
on and should soon:be in playing shape.

Appearing elsewhere on this page is the second ‘weekly
Chesterfild Sports Quiz. This contest is sponsored by Ches-
verfield through Dave Archibald, its campus representative.
The response last week was good and if continned, the con-
test will last the rest.of the year. Bill Bueky is doing the
spade work in the quiz’ and all answers should be turned in
to him in room 307 West..

WHATEVER
YOUR NEEDS

SUITS

. HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES

and the 101 other things,

SHOP
EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

a .
TRACK TEAMS TO MEET IN
* DOUBLE-HEADER SATURDAY

Mriday, April, 1a 1949

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

PAGE THREE

ack Teams To

Meet-Here Saturday

Davidson's varsity and freshman
rack squads will stage a double-
header meet here tomorrow. after-
noon withthe varsity -cindermen
playing ost to Mercer and the Kite
tens taking on Mars Hill Junior
Colleve

Freshman events will be run off

Inmunediately following varsity
events and weight and field events
will be run simultaneously aceord-
me to Coach Pete Whittle The
meet Will get underway at 1:30,
Both Davidson teams were vie-

tortots-trtheir first meets of the

sprmg list) week-end, the varsity
squad avenging a 1948 loss with a
sound 85 Wty walloping of
ss Carolina, while the treshmen
topped High Point High School
there, 76-45

Jin Vann and Jack Gray, double
Winners for the Wildeats last Sat

urday, will be two of Whittle’s top
men agian today. Vann won the
shot and discus agamst the. Game
cocks, and: Gray breezed to wins in
the 880 and mile runs

The Davidsonians, who failed to
take firsts in the 100 and 220 only
in the track events last week, will
be very strong in the high and low
hurdles with Bill Pritchett, Ed Hop-
per and Vom Haller topping the
tunber Kea Goodpasture and
Rivers Jenkins, who finished second
and third to South Carolina's Me-
Kenzie in a 298 100 last week, both
turned-in’ excellent times and will
give the Cats two strong amen in
the sprints

Tennis Squad Tops
Yale Bulldogs 6-1

The skies were clear and ths
grandstands full when the Yale
“Bulldogs? took the courts against
the Cat netters here last Thurs.
day. The Davidson men won 6 to 1
in a match which was first inter-
rupted by rain, then finally played
ina drizzle. This important: victory
brought the Cat total to five this
season against no defeats.

Peddy Keesler gave a preview of
what was to come as he handily
won over Dick Hunt of Yale,
6.0, 6.2. Meanwhile, on adjunct
courts, Mikes Williams was down
ing hard-hitting Charlie Lyneh ot
Yale, 6-0, 6-4) and Whit Cobb was
defeating Bob Carr, the Yale
‘man with the serve,” 6-4, 6.2

The skys looked dark as Bob
Roddey, Cat ace, and Yale's Reb
Ray took to the’ court. Ray was

spectacular in’ the Warm-up, and |.

things began to look dark all over
to the prejudiced spectators. But
lio Roddey'’s consistently accurate
and well-placed) shots soon had
Ray on the defensive. Roddey took
the tirst~set,-6:2>—-Soon—after—the
(Continued on Page Four)

Sports. Quiz

1. What is the longest boxing
bout on record.?

2, Who won the Decathlon
event in the 1948 Olympic games
and what country did he repre.
sent?

3. In what sport is the Calder
trophy given annually to the rookie
of the year?

4. In boxing’s 147-pound class
who is the present holdersof the
world’s title?

Rules
1. Answer each question cor-
rectly.
2. Submit -answers—on- plain pa-

per with name, dormitory, room
number, date and EXACT time
of entry. ;

3. Turn’ answer sheets — into
room 307 West.

4. Every week the first three
entirély correct entries submitted
will each receive a carton of Ches-
terfields.

5. Each weekly contest will close
exactly two days after the David-

a
ov?

¥

tes

es

giving wayeto ill Camp in the
seventh

pm INTRODUCIN' ...

-3 By DAN McKEITHEN

H “The most outstanding student
re | * “94 unter Hurls Loop n the class” was the honor to

Which Bill Bird was elected when

Victory Over Citadel): 3, :nsiing iat sehoot is

Fredericksburg, Va., and for this
Davidsons’ rapidly improving |! Was awarded a sizable scholar.

baseball team broke even on an in-|S!p. There he had been on the
vasion of South Carolina last | Y@rstyy football, basketball and
week-end, falling to the University} baseball teams for three years. In
of South Carolina, 10-8, on Friday, | is senior year he was co-captain
but out-classing the Citadel nine {of the basketball team which was
7-4, the next day. The Citadel win |St#te runner-up and he was named
was the first time the Cats had }te.the All-Tournament team.

been able to overcome aS. ( \t Davidson Bill’ has continued
team thts year. his outstanding record and was so

Dutch  Hengeveld drew the | "ecegnized by being elected presi-

twirling assignment for the Game-[@ent of the Junior Class, His activ-

4 is > AVP 7 “Tye
cock tilt. He went the route while | 1 list the Beaver Club, “D
jssuing eight bases. on balls &nd,| Club, Student Council, and mem-

allowing 12 hits. Frank Shaver, {er of the Nappa Alpha social fra-
Bird ewitler paverun (i tite elon ternity which recently elected him
to serve as Pan Hellenic Council

representative

Both teams seored) three runs Vill has played three years of
in the first inning, one’ in the} Varsity baseball and it’s on the hot

third, and two in the fifth. Adding | corner ot—the- Davidson diamond
three in the sixth and one in the} Where he has really shown his

seventh, the Gamevoeks built up| stuff. Last season-she turned in a

a safe lead.” The Cats added two] -820-plus batting average and_ this
in the top’of the seventh for their | Year he's hitting at a .380 clip,
final scoring. showing that he’s not shy in the

Auburn Lambeth exploded for| base-hit’ department. Possessor of

four base knocks in five trips to/@ whip-like arm, he robs opposing
the plate, including a double and | batters of infield hits, and another,
a homer. asset, his speed, makes him

Moving on to Charleston, the} dangerous on the base paths as he
Cats turned back ‘the Citadel in| steals bases and stretches his hits.

>
4 * their opening game, on Saturday | Vrobably Bill's most remembered
BILL BIRD (Continued on Page Four) (Continued on Page Four)
]

SPECIAL OFFER

TO THE GRADUATING CLASS... JUNE 49

for assignment
late summer or

You May Be Accepted for an Early
U.S. Air Force Aviation Cadet Training Class

If you are a college graduate, married or single, between the ages of 20
and 264 and physically and morally qualified, you may be accepted

in the U. S. Air Force Aviation Cadet classes starting in
early fall,

You get a well-planned course, valued at $35,000 ; ; : this includes about
275 hours of flight training, and the finest aviation education and execus
tive training in the world.

Win your wings and then start a career with a future...

College men are today’s leaders of the, U. S. Air

orce. With new and complex aircraft and equip-
ment being developed, scientific research becomes
more and more important, increasing the need for
college-trained men.

As a college graduate you will have an unlimited
future in aviation fields of personnel manage-
ment, operations, matériel; supply, research and
development.

It’sa year of learning, flying and time for recreation
with a hand-picked top-string team of Americans.

Upon assignment’ to an Aviation Cadet class you
will be sent to one of the U.S. Air Force bases

OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES

sonian is distributed _among the
student body, and the winners will
be notified shortly thereafter.

6. No oné*on the’ -Davidsonian
staff is eligible to enter,

Last Week’s Winners

1—L. V. Hockman

2—Earl Schoenberger,
3—Morris Morgan.

Last Week’s Answers
I1—Fannie Blankers-Koen.
2—Jess@-Owens—26’ 8%.”
3—Roger Hornsby,Avg. .424,

4—Mauri Rose,

lf you can meet the high standards required of candidates for
officer training, there’s ‘a real future for you in the U.S. Air
Force. Capable young executives are needed for positions of
responsibility in non-flying assignments . . . management, com-
munications, engineering, research and other fields. That is why
the Air Force is offering qualified, ambitious:men and women
with college training an opportunity to prepare for leader-
ship in the air age.

in Texas for the world’s finest aviation training.

Here you will receive about 175 hours of flying
instruction in the Texan T-6 trainer plus an ex-
tensive course in aviation education and execu-
tive training. Navigation, fuels, weather, radio
and radar are some of the subjects you will take.

During this training period you'll find plenty of
hard, fast action to keep you fit and trim . . . the
best athletic facilities are available. Upon com-

pletion of training, you will win your silver wings

and receive a Reserve commission as second lieu-
tenant in the U.S. Air Force. Outstanding gradu-
ates receive Regular commissions upon graduation.

U.S. AIR FORCE

Single or married men with two years of college (or who can
pass an equivalent examination) between ages of 20 and
26'4 with high physical and moral qualifications, act now!
Get full details at your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting
Office or write: Chief of Staff, Headquarters United States Air fam

Us S; ARMY and U. S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE

Force, Attention Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C,

