Two athletic events
last Saturday held a
great deal of interest
for Davidsonians. Item
number one was the
College . All-Star-Char-
lotte Clippers football
fame in Memorial Sta-
dium and the other
was the basketball
gume that night in
Statesville’s new physi-
eal education building
between Davidson and
V-P.I. As all know, the @
campus interest mani- @
fested toward the foot-
ball game in Charlotte
was due to the fact that Buddy Chandler and Jake Wade were
umong the select group of semors who were invited to play.

CHANDLER WRECKED CLIPPERS

Far too little was written about the All-Star game, at least
from a standpoint of the terrific line play on the part of the
stars. Coaches Walker and Enright’s powerful forward wall
nearly wrecked the pros from the Queen City. Flere's the thing
that should interest friends of Davidson—Buddy Chandler, stel
lar Cat guard for the past fi ur years, turned in without a donbt
the outstanding defensive gume of the afternoon. Buddy played.
the entire game asa defcnsive guard heside Duke’s highly touted
tuekle, Louis Allen. Few will deny that the hefty Chandler out-
shown his All-Southern companion.

Someone remarked after the game that '* Chandler played
most of the game in the Clippers’ backfield, ‘*which is not so
much of an exaggeration at that. Buddy boomed through the
Clippers’ line repeatedly and made lite miserable for tailback
Casey Jones. Each time the Clipper flipper would drop back to
pass, Chandler was hawking him. In the waning minutes of the
game, Casey was limping around on the field like he had been
in a bout with a steamroller. Buddy's, performance in the game
only goes to back up all that has-been suid and written abont
‘him during his four years --at Davidson. He was playing with
linemen from Wake Forest, Duke. State, South Carolina—but
none of thetx stood above him. [t was a fitting end to a bril-
Hiant college career.

Little Jake Wade, Davidson’s other participant in’ the
game, played on offense and defense, although his unfamiliarity
with the “T” kept him from figuring in on any of the running
plays. Jake turned in a good game at defensive halfback, knock-
ing down passes and making several teeth-jarring tackles. In
the first half, Jake hit Carroll Blackwell after he had. gotten
into the secondary, and that was all for Mr. Blackwell. He left
the game holding his right shoulder and didn’t see any more
service. The disgusted Clipper fullback wasn’t used to such
treatment—at least by a 145-pound halfback.

CAGERS HIT ON ALL FIVE
A disappointingly small group of students went to States-
ville to see the Cat cagers tangle with the V.P.I. Gobblers in
a game which was the featured event. in the dedication of the

By GORDON SCOTT

new high school gym. Boyd Baird's sophomore studded squad.

completely. outplayed and outfought the previously unbeaten
Virginians in a performance which proved beyond a doubt that
the Cats are going to give somebody trouble this year. Baird
has gotten his team co-ordinated with amazing speed, and Sat-
urday night he discovered a smooth working quintet in Brooks,
Coleman, Cobb, Haller and Hengeveld. Brooks and Coleman,
whose sparkling play brought many favorable comments from
the press this week, team to give the Cats almost complete con-
trol of the backboards, particularly during the second half.
Thus, one of Davidson's main weaknesses year-in-and-venr-out,
seems to have been solved.

At this writing, the Duke game is yet to he played, but
regardless of the outcome, Davidson has a team which could
eonceivably better the record of last year's quint. The aver-

age height of the team is greater than last vear’s and the shoot-
ing ability of each of the players is superior to that of last year.
What's more, there are sixteen hustlers representing Davidson
—fifteen squad members and Coach Baird. Whit Cobb said
early in the season, ‘‘We may not win all our games, but we’ll
ve out there fightin’.’’ The team has the spirit, the coach has
the spirit—let’s hope the student body follows suit.

Suatoate

For a smile on every face
end a carol in every heart

we commend you to the spirit

of Christmas.

Heppy holiday.

PAGH FOUR

Conference Decisions

Of Interest To D. C1.

By DAN M:KEITHEN

The anonal meeing of the
Southern ( orference was held this
sear in Koanoke, Va., on Decem-
her 9 and 10. Representatives from
Davidson were Football Coach
Charley Jamerson and Athletic Di-
cector Jim Pinkney. Several im-
Portant conclusions were reached,
hut two of these in particular per-

tained to Davidson,

It was anonunced that the
Southern Conference Tennis
Tournament will be held here
on Mav 12 and 13 of the com-
ing year. North Carolina Uni-
versity has been the site for
many years, but now that
Davideon has the best facilities
available, the local courts have
been selected this year.

The other important § an-
nouncement was that a new
rule has been made regarding
freshman eligibility for: varsity
athletics. A man must earn his
credit hours in the school for
which he is to participate dur-
ing the semester preceding the
varsity season. Under this rule
a freshman cannot participate
in football next season if he
flunke out at the end of this
semester, even though he makes
up his work in another insti-
tution and is allowed to return
next fall. Of course, this rule
will make it tougher on schools
with the semester system like
Davidaon, than those on the
quarter system, dike Carolina.

Other decisions were also

reached. The University of West
Virginia has been admitted into
the Conference group, which now
lists seventeen’ members. The of-
fice of commissioner was approved.
Although the other officers will re-
main, the commissioner will be
given duties that have been per-
formed in the past by the presi-
dent. Duke Football Coach Wallace
Wade is one that has been men-
tioned for this post.

Freshmen Hoopsters
Bested In Thriller

By. DICK LILES

The Freshman basketball team
journeyed to Wingate Junior Col-
lege Monday night, and turned in
their best performance of the sea-
son, -Although they were defeated
65-64, they definitely showed im-
provement. After the practice
games with the Charlotte and Kan-
napolis Y's, the Wildkittens had
a tough time handling the State
boys and were trounced 73-32. From
the looks of this week’s scoré and
the number of points scored, the
frosh are improving rapidly.

Wingate Jr. College has always
had a fine basketball quintet, and
is probably one of the best in the

¥| junior college circuit this year. The

frosh five from Davidson led most
of the first half, but were behind,

¢. 37-30, when the half ended. With

two minutes remaining in the game,
Wingate led by 65-60; the whistle

¥| sounded with Davidson in posses-

sion and only one point behind.

Adrian Bowen’s floor play and
sparkling defensive game was his
best performance of the season. He
and big J. V. Howell pumped in 13
points each to tie for leading scor-
ing honors. Close behind with 12
was Harris Asbury and Bob Gra-
ham who collected 10 points. Dick
Bestas bested his closest rival with
20 tallies for the winners. It was
Wingate’s sixth consecutive win
of the new season.

It was certainly the most spec-
tacular game the Frosh have played
this year. With their improvement,
pep, and scoring punch, they should
really sparkle the remainder of the
season.

Withers Electric
Company

© Radio Repairs

© Blectrical Supplies

© Light Bulbs
DAVIDSON, ¥. 0.

iF]

‘
a

THE DAVIDSONIAN

= Desa

deat Sports

CONGRATS, JOHNNY!

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1949

IMPS DROP. HOOPSTERS IN BRACE

=~Towering Dukes Too Much For Cats;
Ray Brown's Frosh Loses in Thriller

By CHARLIE HAWKINS
The Davidson Wildcats dropped a hard-fought battle to
the Duke basketeers, 66 to 49, on Thursday night in Davidson's
new gymnasium. It was the first meeting of the two teams this
season, and as the score reveals, the Blue Devils cannot be
counted out of the Southern Conference race. Duke Coach

Gerry Gerard - boys. started of
Dining Hall Scene early and jumped to.a 9-3 lead, wit
Of Annual Banquet

only four minutes gone. The
straight shooting of Wildcat for-
ward Bill Brooks kept Davidson
in the game until Tom Coleman
came in with seven minutes gone

By GORDON SCOTT

Wednesday night, the annual
banquet for members of the foot-
ball and cross country team was
held in the College Dining Hall.
In addition to the members of the
two teams, coaches, managers, and
‘a number of faculty members were
in attendance.

The highlight of the proceedings
was the presentation of the Ed
Armfield Blocking Trophy to
Johnny Richards, seniar from
Portsmouth, Virginia.

Mr. Fred Hengeveld, Registrar
of the Collége, served as toast-

|

and scored six points to cut Duke’s
lead to 18-14 at the 13-minute
mark. This proved the closest mar-
gin to which the Wildcats could
whittle the Duke score for the rest
of the game. Then the Blue Devils
spurted to 25-17 at the 17-minute
point, lead by the shooting of 6 foot
6 in. Jim Kulpan and Scotty York
The visitors pumped in eight points
more to the Wildcats five, to lead
at half-time, 33-22,

The ball handling of Wildcat
Captain Whit Cobb and the shoot-
ing of junior forward T. ommy Hal-

BILL BRROKS

Wildcat Of The Week

By BILL ADAMS
This time, our Wildeat of the Weck is a tall, lanky blond,
carrying 160 pounds on a six foot two inch frame, who hails
from Frankfort, Ky. Coming from such a cage-crazy environ-
ment, one would naturally expect Bill Brooks to be a good
basketball player. Anyone secing him pour 20 points through

the nets at Statesville Saturday
night as he paced the Wildcats to Ch e
estertield
Sports Quiz

their first Conference victory, can
back us up when we say that he’s
a whale of a good basketball player.
Bill came to Davidson after play-
ing three years of first-string bail . What Davidson football, player
for Frankfort High, with a good received the Armfield Blocking
basketball reputation~-good enough trophy last year?
for a scholarship, in fact. He hasn't On January 7 the Senior Bowl
disappointed anyone, either. First, | will be the s cene of a game in
‘he started off as high-pointer for what city? .
Boyd Baird's freshmen last year in Bob Dillinger of the St Louis
sparking them to a very success- Browns was sold to what team
ful year. This season, as a sopho- this week?
more, he has taken over a first . Jake LaMotta lost a decision to
What French boxer in the last
two weeks?
. The collegiate punting title went
to what football player — this

String forward post for Baird’s var-
year?

Sity, and séems destined to be one
of the highest scorers. in the Con-
ference.

Perhaps Bill Brook's greatest as-
set is two tremendous hands which
permit him to handle a basketball
like a farmer gathering potatoes,
His lanky frame has earned for
him the name of “bones,” since
he seems loose enough to fall apart
at any minute. Bill is left-handed
and possesses one of the best hook
Shots from the foul circle that will
be seen in Southern Conference
Court circles this winter. He ‘is a
scrapper all the. way, putting every
bit of his energy into each minute
that he’s on the court as he ex-

w

RULES

Print your answers clearly on
the back of a Chesterfield wrap-
per.
No entries will be accepted later
than 24 hours after the David-
sonian is circulated.: .

Take your answer to Frank
Perrin in 112 West.
The first three correct entries
will receive a carton of Ches-
terfield cigarettes. ~
This contest is not open to the

2.

3
4,
5.

put Brooks before the public eye.
If past performance and the will to
win are any criterion on which to
base a prediction, we'll feel secure
in predicting basketball in Predicting basketball history for ' V for

Bill Brooks at Davidson as we
salute him as the Wild Cat of the
Week!

ome >. OE 2: ° SBE 26 EE 3 = 2 2S — SEE aS

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms

or
Parties and Banquets
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 28499
221 South Tryon Street - Charlotte, N. C.
6 MI 92 SR <M CC So 3S =¢  =c  = .

hibits a fierce desire to win. Not] members of the Davidsonain

too tall as basketball height goes,| staff.

Bill is a very dangerous tip-in

man and plenty capable under the DRIVE

baskets. Most of his points come

on his left-handed hook or on tip- CAREFULLY

ins, many times after following up

his own shots. OVER THE
Davidson followers who were ex- LID, ‘

pecting a sad year for the Wild- HO ays

cats after the loss of Cheek, Wil- *

liams and Co., are much more hope- EXEROISE

ful of a good year now that the

scrappy Cats have beaten VPI and CAUTION

H
i
“
Eo

Pt Py oy dT Py
CaE x EE EE

master and introduced Professor ler sparked the Davidsonians on at
Beaty who pronounced the invoca-| the beginning of the sccond half,
tion. Following the invocation, the but the rebounding and shooting

~ | staff,

key dinnea\ with all the trimmings | the Blue Devils forged to a 41-30

lisp inne with was served a tur-! Of the visitors were too much as

by Mr, Spence an

Professor Frontis Johnson intro

“| duced the guest speaker of the eve-|t0o much for the Wildcats.

d the dining room | lead at the end of five minutes of

play. It was here that the height
of the Blue Devils proved to be
The

ning, “Rabbi’’ Henry Baumann o1|*cbounding and shooting of Duke
the Bible Department of the col-| Crowder and Dayton Allen pro-

lege. Professor Bauman’s talk cen-
tered around two main points. His
first point was that the early Greek
athletes trained diligently for a
cause—the State. Transposing it to
modern times, athletes in our col-
leges and universities train for a
cause—their school. The whims
and opinions of one person don’t
amount to anything, for it takes
teamwork to bring about results.
The second thought which Profes-
sor Baumann presented to the
group avas Plato’s statement that
an athlete is the master of a situa-
tion. He does the best job that he
can. He is able to contro! with his
skills, capacities, and abilities, and
this’ is the obligation of all athletes
here at Davidson.

Next on the. program was enter-
‘tainment—hillbilly music by Hal
Haynes, Ansley Moses and Fletcher
Bright. Following this, the toast-
master called on Dean Bailey to
quote a favorite song of his en-
titled “He Was a High-Geared
Daddy, But His Sweet Mama
Throwed Him In Low.”

Dr. Bill McGavock was intro-
duced and he made the award of
the Armfield Blocking Trophy to
Johnny Richards. Coach Jamerson
then presented letters to members
of the football team. In his intro-
ductory remarks, Coach Jamerson
attributed Davidson's poor showing
in football this past season. to three
teasons over which the players had
no control—injuries, lack of depth,
and ovescheduling.

The following received letters for
the first time: Grover Lee, Woody
Leach, Marvin Kelly, Amos Camp,
Bill Van Story, John Rittenburg,
Jerry Kiser, Johnny Guiton, Bob
Gibson, Bill Freeman, Jim Fasul,
Tom Comer, Jack Branch, Bill

Coach Pete Whittle, before
awarding letters to the cross coun-
try team announced that Blake
Bradley was elected captain of next
year’s team. Letters were awarded
to Blake Bradley, Dave Anderson,

trophy to Bob Grube from the

Acker, Ham Wade, Bob Turk, B
C. L. Runyan, and Bill McNeely. Baird on

Bill Lee, Dick Patterson, Dick
Stockton, Tom Stockton, Bob Prewar Rates
Long, captain, and Carl Garrison, Special Rates on
manager. Three men who were out Long Trips
for the team all year were recog-
nized—Dan McKeithen, Watt Jef- DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Ino.
fries, and John Tolbert. 212 W. 4th 8t.
Bob Long presented a small Phone 38-4518

vided Duke with a 48-30 lead with
seven minutes gone. At this point,
Tommy Haller fouled out, and
despite the fine play of Brooks,
the Blue Devils battled to a $3-32
lead. Tom Coleman fouled out as
the visitors went further ahead,
57-35, with eight’ minutes left,
Cobb’s fine defensive play and sub-
stitute center Brady Ostorne’s
sharp shooting led the Wildcats
in a comeback, but again the Duke
height was ‘too. much as the Blue
Devils led 60-43, with three min-
utes left in the game. Osborne's
two foul shots and three field goals
ended the Davidson- scoring, and
the game ended, 66-49,

The great factor in the winning
of the Blue Devils was their
height. Only two of the 17 Duke
players were under 6 foot tall, and
they ased this height in control-
ing the backboards throughout the
game. The scrappy Wildcat spirit
and the “never say die” attitude
kept Coach Boyd Bairds team jin
the game. Whit Cobb played his
usual spectacular floor game and
excelled on defense as Bill Brooks
scored 12 to lead the Cats.

The Freshman game, won by
Duke, 45-38, was another hard-
fought contest. The outcome was'
not decided until the last few min-
utes of play, when the Duke fresh-
men exploded for a seven-point
burst to win, Graham and Bowen
stood out. for Davidson freshmen.

members of the cross country
team. Grube ran with the team
until cupid stepped in. Jake Wade
presented a gift to Coach Jamer-
son on behalf of the members of
the football team and D Club, and
Sandy Carnegie presented gifts to
Coaches Redding, Brown, and
behalf of the varsity and
squads.-

Rent a New Car at
SCARBROUGH

9, ORVENTAL

RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER

126 W. TRADE 8T.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONE 2-228
