PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .. BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINBSS MANAGER a BILL HOUCK
EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editor ...---......------------------------------ Doug Hix

Associate Editor ........--_........------..--.---- Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor ~-...---.--..---.- anenncnesea-cene---- Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister. .

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
Photographs --..........---~---.--.----------------- Ed _ Richardson
Assignments Asst. -......-..--..-..-..------------- —.. Watt Jeffrice
Proofreader Charlie Baldwin

eee cme eee eee Bee e seen see ee woes occoesooore

BUSINESS STAFP

Assistant Business Manager --.---.-------------------- Bill Cassells
Advertising Managers Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager ~.....-..-.....-..---..---------- Hugh Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers —......... Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager wenacancceeccceeee-s John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager —..-. eeccceccnececcccene---- Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North

Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

wee ee we sews sees esceere

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Golden Years

These are the golden years. A man named William Hazlitt
once wrote an essay he called, ‘‘Qn Going A Journey.’’ Concern-
ing journeys he had this to say:

‘‘There is hardly anything that shows the shortsightedness
or capriciousness of the imagination more than traveling does.
With change of place we change our ideas; nay, our opinions
and feelings. We can by an effort indeed transport ourselves
to old and long-forgotten scenes, and then the picture of the
mind revives again; but we forget those that we have just left.
It. seems that we can think of but one place at a time. The can-
vas of the fancy is but of a-certain extent, and if we paint one
set of objects upon it, they immediately efface every other. We
cannot enlarge our conceptions, we. only shift our point of view.
The landscape bares its bosom to the enraptured eye, we take
our fill of it, and seem as if we could form no other image of
beauty or grandeur. We' pass on, and think no more of it, the
horizon that shuts it from our sight, also blots it from our mem-
ory like a dream. In travelling throngh a wild barren country,
I can form no idea of a woody and cultivated one. It appears
to me that all the world must be barren, like what'I see of it.
In the country We forget the town, and in the town we despise
the country.

Hazlitt could have had in mind many of us here at David-
son. Our perspective seems to extend to Main street and our un-
derstanding of the distinction between the important and the
unimportant fades with our efforts to outguess the teachers. We
will never be able to look back on what we have done either here
or elsewhere and know that it has been our best unless we know
how good our best can be. To learn this we must be willing to
look beyond ourselves — to discover what has been the best of
other men, their best thoughts, their best dreams. Do our
thoughts and dreams and efforts seem capable of bringing to
light as much good as theirs? Have we equipped ourselves as
well as they were equipped. We cannot hope to be content with
ourselves unless we do good — history teaches us that. We can-
not do good unless we know good and make that good part of
us, We cannot do this unless we cultivate an ability to see the
whole picture. We know the fable of the three blind men trying
to describe an elephant. To the man touching his trunk, an eler
phant was a big pipe — to the man touching his side, hé was
a wall — to the man holding his tail, he was like a piece of rope.
Unless we can see beyond the confines of our own personalities
the truths we need to know and understand come to us dis-
torted by the veil of self. Without a clear and undistorted under-
standing of these truths we lack the materials with which’ to
build character.

Most of our chapel speakers sooner or later pet around to
mentioning in solemn tones the precarious state of world affairs
_-—the turmoil and strife all about us. One thing most of them
fail to mention often enough is that only througli the strength
of pérsonal character will the world ever be lifted from its state
of fear and confusion. Nations, masses, empires, are the sum
total of millions of individuals. Each of these individuals exerts
an influence which aids either the constructive or the
destructive forces which shape the world’s destiny. Our
most important job is to so build our characters, our
natures, ourselves that we will be able to exert as much influence
on the constructive side as an individual is capable of—then and

only then will we be giving of the best that’s in us. In order to do
this we must look up and out — that we may grow up and out
of ourselves. This business of growing up and out of ourself is
a long term proposition — requiring a life-time of attention and
effort. Yet the time to begin is now — never will we have an
opportunity equal to that which is ours at this moment. In the
words of my best friend, ‘‘These are the golden years,”

eee
The barely-perceptible tide in the Great Lakes is called a
seiche and is partly due to atmospheric conditions.

The Department of Commerce reports that in 1946 the ice
eream industry for the first time ‘‘entered the ranks of the bil-
lion-dollar industries.’’

Navy researchers have a rocket that climbs 51 miles in less
time than it takes to cook a soft-boiled ege.

The film of palm oil on finished tin plate is so thin it can
hardly be seen with the naked eye, yet it is five times thicker
than the average coating of tin on steel.

Recent statistics indicate that there are a million more wom-
en than men in the United States.

First record of an automobile race was from Paris to Rouen.
France, in 1894. The 75 miles was covered at a speed of about
16 miles an hour, -

George &
Claude

By PETE KALOGRIDIS

present time is explainable.

adopting a political

was concerned.

bit the hand that fed him.

this would be a war of survival in

and certainly none would be given.

So the game of politics was being
played almost entirely without the

benefit of rules in Florida last week.
Fast-talking George Smathers had
learned the art of campaigning well

from the master and promptly il-

lustrated to his instructor that he
had not. forgotten the two golden
rules of campaigning: (1) Never al-
low yourself to be put on the de-
fensive and (2) Pour plenty of salt
into old wounds.

For at every stop on the road
George would fish out an old news-
paper clipping and read Claude's
reported 1946 advice to the U. S::

pray for Joe Stalin because he is

the kind of man Americans can
trust.

“Did you pray for Joe today?”

Smathers would then ask, and the
angry -‘noes” sounded like votes.
Claude, of course, was not to be
‘outdone and was qaick to point to
the alarming fact that George was
born in Atlantic City,
damyankee intruder of the most vi-
cious type, a second Sherman po-

N. Ja

tentially more dangerous than the
first. for this time it was the ground
of Florida and not ‘scorgia t iat
would feel the coercion. To
which George answered that he
had graduated from the University
of Florida, while Claude had de-
serted the great state to travel north
into the winterlands of Harvard.
“Felix Frankfurter had nothing to
do with my education,” boomed
Smathers, “Algier Hiss is no class-
mate of mine. I don’t travel under
the crimson banner of Harvard.”

George had indeed learned his
lessons well, but even he indignant-
ly denied that he had gone a far
as a story printed in northern
newspapers, Obviously a yarn, he
was reported to have said in a
speech to illustrate cracker voters
who did not know what the words
meant except that they sounded
very bad.

“Are you aware that Claude Pep-
per is known all over Washington
as a shameless extrovert? Not only
that, but this man is reliably report-
ed to'practice repotism with his sis-
ter-in-law, and he has a sister who
was once.a theopian in wicked New
York, Worst of ail, it is an estab-
lished fact that Mr. Pepper before
his marriage habitually practiced
celebacy.”

And so the battle rages. A great
many issues, as one can sze, sre
being sidestepped? George is try-
ing to fight fire with fire, and
whether he succeeds is a question
which only the May election can
know.

For the master is far from being

(Continued On Page Four)

s~ WA

*- AND OUR NEXT NUMBER 15

A REQUEST, Bay BIRD SINGING
“tF FO KNOWN YOU WERE CON-
6, 7D HIRED A Bano!”

It has been said that civil wars
are by far the bloodiest. If this is|'
the case then the present race for
United States Senator going on in
tile great state of Florida at the

. For George Smathers was given
his start in politics by none other
than Claude Pepper himself. But to
his benefactors’ dismay, Smathers’
‘new position in the House seemed
to give him ideas, and it was not
long before this young upstart was
philosophy
which led to voting on the wrong
side of the fence sg far as Claude

But as if this were not horror
enough, not only should one of the
brethren leave the flock, but he
should also have the audacity and
villany to turn upon and attack
the leader himself. George simply

And Claude has not forgotten this
greatest of all blackhearted acts.
Bandaging his wounded hand so
well that the real merthiolate would
not show, he girded himself for
battle and gallantly announced that

which no quarter would be asked

FAMO

fur cet oat
TS TIME COACH

Medical Education Being Changed

Cleveland, O. — (I.P.) — With
the aim of producing better doc-
tors by revamping staid medical ed-
ucation, Western Reserve Univer-
sity’s School of Medicine is plan-
ning the final details of its revised
curriculum. Dr, Joseph T. Wearn,
dean of the medical school, has
confirmed reports that the new pro-
gram will go into effect with the
freshman class of 1951, and will
gradually cover the entire school
after a series of four annual chang-
es. .
The revolutionary system consists
of a closer correlation between
facts and techniques of the first two
pre-clinical years of the medical
course and the actual application
to patients in the final years. “Un-
der the new set-up students will be
able to study patients from the
start,” said Dr. Wearn, “and the
order, relationship, and quality of
material presented will be vastly im-
proved. We hope to produce better
doctors by stressing that man as a
whole is the basic concern.”

The plan is the result of over
five years of study by the medical
school faculty. “We are unanimous
in approval of the new plan,” stat-
ed Dr. Wearn, “and it has been a
cooperative effort. The addition of

young men to the staff has done
much.”

A grant of over $400,000 from
the Commonwealth Fund made the
revision financially possible. The
sum will provide for a coordinator
and whatever new personnel are
required to carry out the new pro-
gram. The coordinator, who will be
chosen from a field of individuals
outstanding in the medical profes-
sion, will be charged with the basic
responsibility of translating current
developments in schools of medi-
cine into a specific program, pre-
senting it to the faculty, and adapt-
ing it for available facilities. It will
be carefully studied out for one year
before being applied.

“Under the present system of
medical education, too much mem-
ory is required,” observed Dr.
Wearn. “For example, anatomy is
taught in the first year but the stu-
dent learns surgery as a_ senior.
These two will coincide under the
revised program.” Other basic
flaws that have been pointed out
are the deadening of initiative and
curiosity by the tremendous amount
of unrelated factual material pre-
sented and the lack of integration
between departments.

College Should Train For Politics

New York, N. Y. — (LP) —
American colleges fait to train
young people to participate in poli-
tics for five principal reasons, a re-
cent report issued by the Citizen-
ship Clearing House of the New
York University School of Law
charged. The five chief faults for
which the colleges are blamed are:
(!) no training in politics at all
for half the college students (2)
inadequate training for sthe other
half, and (3) lack of political ex-
perience of teachers in introductory
courses; (4) deadly uniformity in
college political instruction; (5) too
much splitting up of basic instruc-
tion into too many minor frag-
ments,

The report recommended that col-
leges not only improve their in-
troductory courses in politics but
place stronger emphasis on the de-
velopment of small courses in po-
litical parties for advanced stu-
dents. “Every effort should be made
to improve the training and politi-
cal experience of teachers and ex.
tend the use of laboratory methods
through requiring actual participa-
tion in political campaigns while
still in college,” Thomas H. and
Doris D. Reed, nationally known
consultants on government and edi-
tors of the report, declared.

By a process of “curricular pro-
liferation,” the larger universities

have multiplied their courses in
government and political science
with only inter-university competi-
tion as a stimulus, the report said.
Political parties courses, it was
found, are offered in 113 of the 218
institutions reporting, usually at
the junior-senior level, but even the
large universities are content with
only one such course.

Only 35 institutions require stu-
dents to take an introductory course
and in many others only 20 per
cent or less of the students ever
come in contact with formal in-
Struction directed at active citizen-
ship. In only 25 of the 156 courses
in American government, did the
questionnaire returns note the use
of any but routine instructional
methods.

Of the remaining 62 courses, 22
‘were in political theory, two in
comparative government, six were
combinations of political theory and
comparative government, seven
dealt with American history and
four with the history of civiliza-
tion. Seven were primarily courses
in sociology and only six were Ia-
belled “Citizenship.” With the ex-
ception of some courses in citizen-
ship, the time devoted to the prac-
tical workings of the American po-
litical system was “very meager,”
the report pointed out.

- College Rags In Brief

By BILL CUMMING

Since there doesn't seem to be
much printable news from other
campuses this week, here goes with
some gags from other college rags:

He: “Only a mother could love
a face like yours.”

She: «I’m about to inherit a for-
tune”

He: “I'm about to become a

mother.”
—The Tiger.

Mother: “My dear, a nice girl
doesn’t hold a young man’s hand.”
Daughter: “But Mother a nice
girl has to.”
—Gamecock.

A credit reporting egency in an
eastern city made the following
report cuncerning a debtor:

“We have a report that this
party has no property, cither real
or personal; no credit either actual
or potential; no prospects, either
present or future; and no hope,
either here or hereafter.

When a girl finds that she isn’t
the only pebble on the beach, she
generally becomes a little boulder.

Paratroop instructor: “All you
have to do is jump, count to 10, pull
your rip cord, and your parachute
will open.”

GL: “What happens if I forget
to pull the cord?”

Instructor: “Thats what I call
jumping to a conclusion.”

Notice on Bulletin Board of
Biology Department:

“We don’t begrudge you dipso-
maniacs a little alcohol, but please
return our specimens.”

—Johnsonian,

He: “Did anyone ever tell you
how wonderful you are?”

She (purring): “Why no.”

He: “Then where did you get
the idea?”
—Tiger.

in good health. After attending the

scheduled by the Red Cross for the
summer
State College, Natchitoches, La, un-

June 4-14; Camp Carolina, Brevard,

FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1950

The Space Filler

By JACK HAZARD

grades and maticulously added up
all his hours and quality points.
Upon satisfying himself that
something foul was afoot he pre-
‘sented the registrar with the facts
and was duly assured that he was
an eligible candidate fer his B. S.
degree.

With this in mind Grover is
now busily engaged in writing his
speech for graduation. As’ valedic-
torian. he will be called on for
words of commendation and ad-
miration for this group which will
soon face the cold cruel world.

Grover’s prowess as a great lov-
er is well known. His abilities in
this line-come naturz! of course but
it was at an easly age that he be-
gan to develop this talent. It seems
that in the fourth grade he first
demonstrated his interest in the
fairer sex. And as is usually the
case when one becomes involved
with this type animal, it causes
trouble. Grover had been told by
his teacher that he would have to
stay after school that afternoon to
receive disciplinary action. But the
young lover had a date that af-
ternoon to walk his girl home. So
rather than break the young heart
he slipped out down the fire escape
and kept his date. Though this gal-
lant action saved the young lady it
cost the tube a day’s suspension
from school.

There could be more told on J.
G. Lee the lover, for example, his
days as a life guard and bookie at
Moorehead City, but this space is
filled so we'll quit.

Last week in this column we
wrote about nothing. This week we
are going even farther into the ab-
stract. Elsewhere in these pages
appears a story on Grover Lee. We
felt that a mere relation of the
facts on the tube was not sufficient,
so we will herein briefly relate a
few tales of this campus gentleman.

There are many stories of pro-
football offers to the Wildcat block-
ing ace. Though he didn’t appear
on any draft list it is reported that
no less than five pro clubs have
sent scouts to look him over. He
is at present running ten laps every
morning in order to be ready for
the play for pay boys.

And then there was the time
that Grover the grappler pinned
ted headed Charlie Parker in ten
quick falls despite the Charmer’s
protests that he didn’t want to mess
up his clothes.

One of Grover’s proudest days
was the sunny Friday afternoon
when he strode before the entire
ROTC contingent and staff to re-
ceive his medal for winning a first
place in the camp swimming meet.
Of course it was on a relay team
but the tube was an integral part
of that squad.

Though he wags recently elected
valedictorian of the senior class,
Grover found some fear that he
might graduate with that class. It
was reported by reliable sources
that there was no James Grover
Lee on the list of candidates for de-
grees. Amid threats to Mr. Henge-
veld Grover pulled out all his

What To Do This Summer

RED OROSS OFFERS AQUATIC SCHOOLS

N. C, under the direction of Ellis
Fysal, first session, June 7-17 and
second session, August 21-31;
Roosevelt State Park, Chipley, Ga.,
under the direction of Harry Ken-
ning, first session, June 14-24 and
second session, August 21-31. An
aquatic school for Negroes will be
conducted at Tennessee A & I Col-
lege, Nashville, Tenn., under. the
direction of Howard Anderson, |
June 20-30

Included in the 10-day school will
be courses in lifesaving, water safe-
ty, swimming, diving, small craft
operation, first aid and accident
prevention. Each course includes
Study, discussion, demonstration,
and practice. Upon completion of
these courses, students will be
qualified as Red Cross instructors,
In addition to special representa-
tives of Red Cross water safety,
first aid and accident prevention,
specialists in these fields from
schools, colleges, and various safe-
ty organizations will serve on the
faculties.

A special small craft school, con-
ducted exclusively to develop lead-

(Continued On Page Four)

Seven national aquatic schools
will be conducted by the American
Red Cross in the Southeast this
summer to train instructors of wat-
er safety, first aid and accident pre-
vention, according to an announce-
ment by Oliver Allien, of Atlanta,
Red Cross director of Safety Ser-
vices in the Southeastern Area.

To be qualified for enrollment in
one of the schools, men and women
must be 18 years of age or older and

intensive 10-day course, they will
return to their home communities
to apply their knowledge as aqua-
tic or safety leaders for schools,
camps, industries, recreation and
parks departments, youth organi-
zations, clubs, municipal, state or
federal agencies or other organiza-
tions interested in promoting safe-
ty measures. ‘All of the schools are
under the direction of Red Cross
Safety Services leaders.

The following schools have been

months: Northwestern

der the direction of Eugene Jones,

 ]
Day Room
College of the Holy Cross
(Worcester)

In Worcester, Massachusetts, one
of the favorite spots of students at
the College of the Holy Cross is the
Day Room on the campus. They
like the Day Room because it’s a
cheerful place — full of friendly
collegiate atmosphere. And when
the gang gathers around, ice-cold
Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as
in college haunts everywhere—
Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way .. . both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. CONCORD, N. C.

© 1950, The Coss-Cele Company

ae 3g
