PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

By HENRY

Pat solutions are seldom as ef-
fective as they seem. Some time
ago in an article entitled, “The
Passing of an Era,” I roundly con-
demned socialism and anything con-
nected with it. I did not suggest
any simple pat solution but I did
imply that one could probably. be
found easily enough. Now at a
later stage in my own thoughts on
the matter I am less sure that I.
was right but not any the more
sure that socialism is. In this
article T would simply like to pre-
sent a few observations on the gen-
eral topic and, most important,
pose some questions to which I
do not have the answers. Further,
I would like to solicit answers in
the form of letters to the editor
to the questions which I propose to
set forth.

Probably the best start would
be to set forth the tenets of social-
ism. They are essentially these: All
problems are basically economic in
nature, solve these problems and
all others will automatically dis-
appear; this can be done by dis-
tributing goods and services equal-
ly among the people; the capital-
istic system does not achieve this
end; it creates those who have
and those who have not; the second
group is in virtual servitude to
the first; the wealth of the “haves”
should be distributed equally among
all the people; the government will
be the agency to do this; once this
redistribution is accomplished, the
government will relinquish the
powers which it would have to as-
sume to accomplish a task of such
magnitude. The foregoing is, I be-
lieve, a fair statement of the main
points of socialistic doctrine,

Now it is obvious that some of
these facts are erroneous. The basic
premise, the economic basis of all
man’s ills, is not true. Investiga-
tions into the industrial strife which
is so prevalent in this country re-
veal that the basic want of those
fomenting such strife is not money.
It does occupy a place of some
importance in the value scale of
‘people, but other considerations,
such as ‘recognition and a feeling
of personal worth to industry rather
than that of a mere expendable
commodity in the maw of capital-
ism, indicate that money is not

FLICKER

BOB HOLLISTER
~——__- BILL HOUCK

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER -....-—

, EDITORIAL STAFF

Chief Associate Editor ....-—----------------- ---, Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor pnaceennco--scceeeee Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor -. k Hazard

econ een nn ee === = Jac!
MANAGING EDITORS—Anrnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neil! Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister. Randy Taylor.

Sporte Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-
‘Ast Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Swibling. .
City Editor—John Hobart Exchange ‘Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager ---....---.-.--- ----- Bill Casselis
Advertising Managers Wylie Sinith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation Manager_.-.-....--..-.-----------------------> Huffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers —-~.-...... Ansley Moses, Neil Uaderdown
Collections Manager .-.---......--.--------------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager .......---.---------------------- Alex Goley
tele cn AT

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

A Word Ot Welcome

To those of yon who have converged on our campus this
week-end to pay us a long-awaited visit, we extend a very hearty
and sineere welcome. For you who have never been to David-
son before and for you who are returning, we hope you will ex-
perience personally those things which we think exist in no
other places so predominantly as they do here: namely, a spirit,
a fellowship, a loyalty, and, more precisely, an ideal of in-
dividual friendship, These elements may be attributed to many
colleges, but nevertheless we hope that when you leave you
ure as convinced as we that these things peculiarly and distince-
tively characterize Davidson. If you find. it as such you will
have had an enjoyable three days, which we hope will prevail
in the years to come as your most memorable college week-end.

Cincinnati Symphony

Davidson College is indeed fortunate in being able to pro-
cure the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, which is appearing
in concert on the campus this Saturday evening, and we. of the
student body should feel grateful for the efforts of one who has
made it possible for us to avail ourselves of the opportunity
to, hear such a fine musieal group. Little do most of us realize
that it is seldom: possible to bring a group of musicians of this.
ealiber to such a small town as Davidson. So to Mr. Pfohl, who
has been a friend of Mr. Thor Johnson, Conductor, since high
school days, and who is responsible for bringing Mr. Johnson and
his group here, we direct our expressions of gratitude.

For those of us who do not already know, the Cincinnati
Symphony Orchestra is ranked among the six pre-eminent sym-
phony orchestras in the country. No less renown than the or-
chestra is the conductor, Mr. Johnson, who, though very young
professionally, has already ‘made a significant mark in the
musical world. Attributable also to Mr. Johnson is the fact that
he. is one of the very few American-born symphony orchestra
conductors ever to achieve fame and success and to reach the
so-called ‘‘top” of the musical world. ‘

@e@* Excellent Picture
os Good Picture .
* Fair Picture

You raise your hand to knock,
hesitate, then quickly rap twice.
The few seconds that pass seem
like houts. The -knob turns, the
door slowly opens and you are
facing a man of six feet or more
with dark brushy eyebrows, thin
eyes, and a rather sensitive nose.
He nods for you to enter. You
quickly follow him through the
dark passage to a small door at the
end. He motions for you to go in.
You step in and find yourself alone
in complete darkness, except for
the faint glow around a crystal ball
ifthe center of the room. You
prick your ears up, again you
hear “thump, thump, thump,
thump.” The palpatating sound in-
creases gradually until your head
throbs and you feel as if you are
being suffocated under a huge liv-
ing heart. As you begin to sink to
the floor, a shrill scream seems to
cut through the darkness and stab
the pounding heart. The crystal
grows red, with heat as the throb-
bing gradually fades away. The
red glow melts into orange and the
orange freezes to a blue haze. You
creep closer and peer into the crys-
tal. You see the following informa-
tion pass before you in teletype
form:

With such a fine orchestra-and conductor to entertain us
for an evening with the best in classical music, another stride
is being taken in. tle cultural-advancement-program for. the
students of the college, The knowledge of, the familiarity with,
and the appreciation for good music is one of the most in-
dispensable elements which comprise the formula for the de-
velopment of the well-rounded classical, liberal-arts educa-
tion. It is certainly axiomatic that the more extensive the knowl-
edge and familiarity, the deeper is the appreciation for classical
music. Many claim possession of a repugnant dislike for classical
music, when more likely it is an embarrassing ignorance. Any-
body, even he with the lowest sense of appreciation, can eulti-
vate an appreciation for classical musie with a little knowledge
‘and understanding of it. Much in a man is to be measured by
the breadth of his cultural background. In listening to the Cin-
cinnati Symphony Orchestra concert, we will have an oppor-
tunity not only to increase our knowledge of, familiarity with,
and appreciation for classical music, for what that in and of
itself is worth, but also to broaden the horizons of our cultural
background.

«

Vereen Bell Award

Again this year Davidson students have an opportunity to
submit their creative writing in competition for the annual
Vereen Bell Award.

Vereen Bell graduated from Davidson in 1932. He was
killed in action during the recent world war and it was as a
memorial to him that the award was established in 1947. It
provides a fifty-dollar prize for the Davidson student submitting
the best example of creative writing.

Monday and Tuesday

Jane Wyman and Dennis Mor-
gan star in “The Lady Takes a
Sailor.” As director fom the Buyers’
Research Institute, attractive Jane
Wyman represents truth and
honesty to the American house-
hold, However, the wrecking of
her sailboat by a strange underseas
tank operated by inventor Dennis

organ touches off a series of hi-
larious episodes in which Jane tries
to prove to all concerned that such
a craft exists .. . insuring her
reputation for truthfulness. With
the ‘aid of her fiance, Allyn Joslyn,
and a backward private detective,
she sets out on the trail of Mor-
gan, who possessep .olls of film
which could substantiate her story.
He won't give them up because his
amphibious craft is a military
secret. Duckworth, her detective
turns out to be more a hindrance
than a help and Jane acts on her
own intuition.

As the author of many well received articles and short
stories, including the famous ‘‘Swamp Water,’’ Vereen Bell
set a high standard of literary achievement which challenges
today’s students to develope their creative abilities to the
fullest extent. In the effort to do this we could ask for no better
opportunity than this commemorative citation now affords us.

Any type of paper is accepted. The one qualification is
that the writing must be creative. Regardless of the extent of
our abilities, the effort we expend in producing a plece of crea-
ive work of this nature invariable yields rich rewards, in per-
sonal satisfaction, broadened perspective and invaluable ex-
perience in writing expressively—a talent we will find to be of
ever-increasing usefulness long after graduation.

E. HANSEN

the basic cause of dissatisfaction,
nor has more of it substantially re-
duced industrial strife in this coun-
try.

However, at this point, we are
faced with the fact that some coun-
tries, notably the smaller ones such
as Sweden and the other Scandi-
navian countries, have had much
success with socialism. Why? One
answer that appears to me is the
fact that these are small countries
and the socialistic plan is thus ad-
ministered on a smafler and more
intelligent scale. Granting the valid-
ity of this reason for success we
could assume that if the present
socialistic trend is to continue and
succeed in its efforts in this coun-
try, then the states and necessary
regional combinations of states
should have the balance of power
and the federal government should
not be allowed to institute plans
of socialistic nature. This would be
states’ right in a new aspect of
the term.

But let's examine this success
in the light of some recent facts.
In the February 6th issue of Time
Magazine the following are pre-
sented: New Zealand's socialist la-
bor, party, in power for 14 years,
lost the last election; the same thing
happened in Australia after a ten-
ure of eight years in office; in Italy
the socialist party, in 1946 the
second largest, is now split.and in-
effectual; in Germany last August
the Social Democrats were nosed
out by the Christian Democrats; in
France the party is still the third
largest, but its strength has de-
clined; in‘ Belgium, Switzerland, the
Netherlands, Norway, Sweden,
Denmark.. Finland, and Austria—
the countries which have had the
most success with socialism—the
party has faded slightly or is just
holding its own. We might con-
clude from these facts that the
socialistic concept is at fault. To
quote Time: “In: short, doctrinaire
socialism has lost converts as ex-
periment shows up its defects; yet
the socialist scar tissue continues
to grow inside the other doctrines
which, have. not developed  suf-
ficiently vigorous answers to the
20th century problem of want amid
the possibilities of plenty.”

(Continued on Page Six)

FLASHES

By HUGH SWAN

Wednesday and Thursday .

Gregory Peck stars in “Twelve
O'Clock High’ Dean Tagger
middle-aged American visiting in
present-day London, bicycles out
to Archbury, where a great, bustling
American air base was located dur-
ing the war. Now he finds it grown
under and neglected. Memory
awakens the sound and sight of
Archbury as it was in the fateful
fall of 1942, when Jagger served
there. The 918th Bomb Group,
launching daylight bombing of ene-
my positions, is undergoing heavy
losses and depleted morale due to
the over identification of the com-
manding officer with his men. Greg-

ory Peck sees this, reports to head- |:

quarters, and is made commander
himself. He determines not to make
mistakes of last commander, so he
busts his lieutenant, exacts iron
discipline from his men, and is
ruthlessly impersonal with his staff.
The men, who had loved the last
commander, resent Peck, who curt-
ly tells them they have been feel-
ing sorry for themselves, that they
must shape up. “Consider . your-
selves dead,” he bark$ at them,
“and it will be easier.” The pilots
decide they have had enough. All
of a sudden the crystal goes blank
and then suddenly comes back in
view to reveal the following tele-
type form.
* ©
Friday and Saturday

Joan Caulfield, Billy De Wolfe,
and Mona Freeman star in “Dear
Wife.” This picture is a sequel to
“Dears Ruth.” Mona Freeman
plays the part of a mischievous teen-
ager who gets all of her family in-
volved in humorous _ situations
through her civic-minded attitude.
There is no plot worth discussing,
but you will get many laughs from
the situations Joan Caulfield and
Billy De Wolfe find themselves
in due to Mona's ingenious civic
ideas. The crystal begins to turn
green and deep rumblings can be
heard within. It starts swelling and
as it becomes increasingly bigger,
it becomes brighter. You turn and
run out of the door to find yourself
falling down, down, down, until
you slowly drift down onto a div-
ing board suspended over a pool
of beautiful girls. You open your
eyes and find yourself on the floor
looking up into your roommate's
face.

meek

ON SOCIALISM Article On College [Is America Adrift On

Misses Many Factors|\ The Sea Of Finance?

By PROFESSOR C. K. BROWN

By NEIL LEACH

The article on Davidson College
given below is taken from the new
Collier’s Encyclopedia (copyright
1950 ‘by P., F. Collier and Son)
which has recently been added to
our library. The author of this
elongated paragraph, Joseph I.
Toven of New York University,
has a long line of A. B.’s, A. ‘M.'s
and Ph. D.'s after his name, but in
spite of this fact, he seems to have
missed some of the major factors
in the life of the college. But first,
heres’ the article en toto; the
criticisms follow:

“Davidson College, an accredited,
Presbyterian-controlled men’s col-
lege of arts and sciences located on
two hundred acres in Davidson,
N. C., a community of 1,500 peo-
ple, 20 miles north of Charlotte.
Davidson College first offered in-
struction in 1837 and was chartered
a year later. Degrees offered are
A.B. and B. S. Among the re-
quired courses toward either degree
are twelve hours of Bible study.
Honors work may be elected by
superior students, who must have
initiative, power of, organization,
and broad background in subject
matter. Military science is com-
pulsory for freshmen and sopho-
mores unless excused at the re-
quest of parents. There is a sub
stantial scholarship and. student
loan aid, and special scholarships to
ministerial students. Students not
living in the community must live
in residence halls.”

With the materia! content of the
article, Mr. Toven of New York,
did a fair job; the main criticism
comes when we realize all that he
omitted—not jist —_ insignificant |
things, but facts of which the col-
lege can rightly be proud. If you
don’t mind a pat on the back, just
read some of the accomplishments
of your college which certainly
would have added more real value’
to Mr. Toven’s paragraph.

No mention was made of the fact
that Davidson is accredited by the
American Association of Univer-
sities. Not just any .college can
make that claim, for this associa-
tion accredits, a school through in-
vestigations into the comparative
gtades of its graduates in graduate
schools. We have an active chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa Scholarship
Fraternity. The endowment of Da-
vidson College at present is greater
than that of any liberal arts college
south of the Mason-Dixon line. In
recent years the college has been
chosen as one of the few to re-
ceive benefits from the coveted
Baker Scholarship fund. It is not
every college whose prospective
students are carefully examined on
the basis of scholarship before en-
trance. One of the truly praise-
worthy attainments of Davidson
students lies in the fact that eight
(including Charlie Davis) David-
sonians have been chosen as Rhodes
Scholars. We don’t want to for-
get to remind Mr. Toven in clos-
ing these remarks, that we also
have a very distinguished faculty—
whether the majority of the student
body would realize this fact or not.

College Rags

IN BRIEF

wee ee

_By BILL CUMMING
Emory S.A.E.’s Raided

The Emory Wheel reports that
30 unnamed vandals forced their
way into the Emory S.A.E. house
early last Sunday morning causing
a “near riot” condition. Said Jack
Hickman, chapter president, the 30
vandals were Tech students seek-
ing “revenge” and made three visits
to the S.A.E. house between mid-
night and 4 a. m Sunday. The
first action occurred about mid-
night when Tech boys allegedly be-
gan painting the S.A.E. lion, a
lawn ornament. Before they could
escape, S.A.E.’s captured one Tech
man who was given a short hair-
cut and made to clean the lion
with paint remover, before he was
released. In the struggle over the
lion three S.A.E.’s were hit with
bottles, Hickman asserted, Later
other members of the gang, evident-
ly enraged by the hair cutting, re-
turned and forced their way inside
the chapter house where they dis-
covered five cans of paint and a
can of shellac which they used to
shellac the porch and pour on the
lion. Using large stones found in
the yard, the vandals began hitting
the cast iron fion until its nose
was broken. Hickman complained
that numerous calls to Decatur po-
lice were unanswered. At the time
of the raids only twelve members
of the chapter were in the house,
the invaders numbering about

(Continued on Page Six)

-has always known that that could

|tion, it is futile to argue over

[concerning monetary theory, such
as the assertion that the volume of

tablished both in economic history
and in monetary theory it is that

(LAST OF TWO ARTICLES)
(Reprinted by Permission of The
Charlotte News)

The idea that we can avoid. “sad-
dling ourselves with higher taxes”
(See Pepper as cited) simply by
borrowing the difference between
governnient income and outgo is
one of the cruelest fallacies to
which the human mind is subject.
Yet in every generation there are
those who have discovered anew
this easy road. The debt is not real-
ly a debt, they say, because we owe
it to ourselves. We would not be
one penny poorer were the debt
all cancelled. (One has an uneasy
feeling that this is precisely what
will happen if the debt continues to
climb. Very probably it will not be
cancelled by direct repudiation, but
by the process of reducing its value
through inflation of prices.) This is
undoubtedly true in a certain sense,
but some of us would be very
much poorer, and the virtues upon
which the system of private owner-
ship and individual responsibility
rests would be badly shaken. The
question is not whether ‘a debt
can be cancelled without destroy-
ing any physical wealth. Everyone

be done. The question is whether
a society can commit an immoral
act without weakening the founda-
tions of its own existence. Wh
can say that the American people
would not be poorer if the pledged
word could be violated at will, if
industry and frugality and provi-
dence for the future should promise
no reward, while the labors of one
man were consistently enjoyed by
another? Here again we are face
to face with the question of the
kind of national life we wish to
build. Until we answer this ques-

whether it is«good or bad to go. on
running deficits. .

The deficit spenders should come
out openly and honestly in favor
of the kind of country that deficit
spending will make out of us.—
is even now making out of us —
instead of pretending that it -will
make no difference. In attempting
to prove that it will make no dif-
ference, some of its advocates are
led to utter amazing statements

money is not a controlling factor
in prices which “are established by
directly operating factors” (See
Pepper as cited). This sort of pro-
nouncement hardly needs any repe
tition to intelligent peopte. If there
is any one thing that is well es-

the volume of money is a powerful

re
=

force in determining these “direct-
ly operating factors.’ Moreover, the
attempt to disprove the relations
between volume of money and Jevel
of prices by pointing ont that prices
do not move in direct proportion
to changes in the quantity of money
is to demolish a man of straw, for
no reputable economist ever made
such a statement. One doesn't have
to know much history to know: that
deficit financing is almost always

ume of money and that a volume
of money that increases faster than
production will be followed by ris-
ing prices.

‘The mention of rising production
furnishes a ct:e for those who find
in deficit financing a means of pro-
moting and sustaining a higher
level of production than would
otherwise prevail. ‘hey may call it
stabilized, production or full em-
ployment or some other name that
implies a very desirable state of
affairs. They have observed that
when inflation is in progress eco-
nomic activity seems to be at a
maximum: therefore, they conclude,
it should be kept at a maximum.
by continued inflation. Now the
late Lord Keynes of England sup-
ported this idea wi.h an elaborate
economic theory which has gained
endorsement of a considerable: pro;
portion of the professional eco-
homists of the Western world. The
gist of Keynes’ idea is that de-
pressions occur when people do not
dispose of their entice income either
for consumption or for: investment,
but hold some of it on hand or use
some of: it for repaying bank loans
and thus reduce the volume of
money. When this occurs, the gov-
ernment should step in with deficit
financing to make up the difference
and restore full operation of the
economic system. If and when
the people go to the other extreme
by spending for consumption and
investment more than their money.
(the difference coming either from
hordes or from new bank credit)
the government should increase
taxes, operate with a surplus, and
reduce its debt.

Now this ‘is an attempt to deals
with economic affairs in the ag-
gregate and it may be doubted
whether in a highly differentiated
and complex economy such as ours
the system will lend itself to con-
trol in this fashion. Certainly the
attempts of the federal government
to promote full employment by
folluwing Keynes’ program in the
1930's did not achieve startling suc-
cess: There was more than a little
truth in the political joke that it
took a war to get us out of the de-

(Continued on Page Six)

“BIKO”

¢

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

The purpose of this theme (the
general idea of which has already
been discussed in the last issue of
the Davidsonian) is to point out
the general development of the

history of human society, at the

present time the applicatiog“o
knowledge of this devklo
foreign polity. Moreoyep,
has been sade to poiwf out the
place that is taken by war and to
introduce the idea of a substitute
for war.

The following theme consists in
five parts:

I. The theory of the ipter-
ruption of the steady develop-
ment of history by collisions of
extreme setups of human
‘society. This theory will serve
as the basis for the conclusions
drawn in the next four parts.

II. The application of this
theory to the present world
Situation,

Ill. The influence, this
present situation will have up-
on the form of war and the
policy it requires.

1V. The form, in which said
development has already started
within the setups of the more
closely envolved nations.

IV. The necessity of a sub-
stitute for war as arising from
the discussion about the form
and the place war will take in
the development within the
near future.

-seee

History has always been more
to man than just an effort to find
eut what had happened in the past.
It was an applied science, that man
used when trying to determine what
will happen in the future. Thus
man always tried to detect certain
laws in the general course of his-
tory, which then in torn might be
applied to make this determination
possible.

Whether it is possible, thus to
forecast in general terms in the
development of human society,
which is history, has not necessarily
toebe discussed. However, it may
be said, tfiat no one can deny the
existence of the certain repetitions
within the course of history, And
it is the assumption of the existence
of these repetitions on which the
following theme is based. —

The general course of human
history now and then seems to be
interrupted by forms of explosions

or collisions, which then in return
determine its further development.
‘These collisions are caused by the
existence of two extreme view-
points as to what should be the
ideal setup of human society. The
extreme viewpoints may be of re-
ligious nature, ‘as was the case
shortly before the religious war
in Europe from 1618-1648, or their
nature may be concerned with the
economical status of the individual
within the society. In both cases,
however, it will extend over the en-
tire setup of society and influence
completely the social and econom-
ical status of the individual.

It ‘seems to be a fact, that ex-.
tremely different setups in the long
run cannot exist side by side, but
collide and form a new setup, which
has features and faults of both the
preceding ones.

The collisions may express them-
selves in three different ways. First,
if existing within a nation, they
may occur in the form of a revolu-
tion. This was the fact in the.
French revolution, where two dif-
ferent and basic ideas collided. The
one idea was that of the old French
monarchy, an idea which was spread
all over Europe, with the exception
of England. The other idea placed
the individual, which in the old
setup wa but taking a minor part, ©
in the middle of interest. This
movement, known as individualism,
connected with all its different
ideals concerning the freedom of
the . individual, the equality and
brotherhood of men before God
and among egch other, could not
possibly exist side by side with the
old ideas of a human. society con-
sisting of classes with different
privileges and social status. The re-
sult of this tension then was the
revolution, and out of this explo-
sion arose a new form of society

and a new social status of the in- :

dividual. Second, if the extremes
are placed within difftrent nations,
the collision may express itself in
form of a war. This was partly the
case in the religious war in Europe,
where, although mostly on Ger-
man territroy, different nations
‘fought each other. It may, how-
‘ever, be seen more clearly, if the
breakdown of the Roman empire in
49S through the invasion of Ger-
manic tribes is taken as an example.

(Continued on Page Six)

accompanied by an expanding vol- .

A
