Doe ‘White’s liide
battered yellow lamp
shade, home-made chair
cushion, and pint-sized
sewing machine are in-
congruosly conspicuous
in the modern tile
’ splendor of his Johns-
" ton Gym quarters. The

Doctor himself goes
about his too numerous
‘ duties with a make-the-
best-of-all-these-eonven-
iences resignation, but
inwardly he seems to
yearn for the cramped
By BILL WHITE quarters of the old gym.

As the first clouds in eight weeks began to gather and
folks began wondering whether it would start Friday or Satur-
day, we began thinking back over some of the Homecomings they
must have had back when ..., and booked an appointment with
the Grand Old Man of Davidson College athletics to reminisce a
while.

The Doetor, still finding all that room too much for his lik-
ing. led the way into his equipment closet. pulled out a stick of |
Beechnut as would any fi host, and like a corporation lawyer
in his library reached up on a shelf and brought dowr a stack
of programs for the discussion.

When Once Presbyterian Met Baptist

The baseball enp came off, and Doe ran a finger through his
tuusled grey hair. ‘Well, to start off I'll tell you the biggest crowd |:
that ever was up here. It was in 1937, and we were playing Wake
Forest. There was bleachers way down yonder 'tother end of
the field from one side to the other, up this way like they are
now, and folks ’uz standing all around the track. Can’t remem-
ber who won that game, but it was the last time we played Wake
Forest up here, and it was real close competition. I reckon that
game musta drawed 12 or 15 thousand people.”

Doe satisfied himself that Teeny Lafferty didn’t play that
year, having graduated in the spring of '37, then perused the 39
Carolina program. “MeClintock, Caldwell, McLean, Crutehfield
—that boy’s in here just couple a days ago. I knowed his voiee
‘fore | ever saw him.’ And Davey Spencer. That’s my back.
Just give him that much’? and Doe parted his hands a foot—
‘‘and he was gone. That’s why I say he was better than Lafferty,
Teeny had Tom Corbin up there making room for him. and after
he left, Ed Armfield. But both of ’em were some ball plavers.

‘‘Now you know how old them jerseys the freshmans were
wearing the other evening are,” Mr. White chuckled as he point-
ed to the squad picture in the 1940 Jitadel program. “Reckon
Johnny Frederick ’I! be down here this weekend—with his ball
team. He’s conch, I believe its up at Hanes. Reckon a lot of
them'll be back here this weekend. There's another Sharpe right
yonder—Herb Rainey. They didn’t go over him. No sir!’’

Our student body president would have blished and beamed
to have been in our shoes for the next gem of the past. The Doe-
tor had a ‘41 Carolina program. ‘‘ We usta play Carolina ’n Duke
hoth good first halves. Trouble was y’always had to play the
second half. Now here’s a tackle who played both of ’em. Alf
Taylor. He played 60 minute ball all the time. I seen him come
off the field when he couldn’t move. And he wouldn't play in
no shoes anybody else’d nvear. Had to have an old wore out pair
that wouldn’t hardly stay on his feet. I s’ glad to see him finish
and get those things outa here, I give 'em to him.

“An’ old Red Beathea was our top back in about ‘41-'42.
That was just "fore the war started. An’ this must be ’43, there’s
Bud Wyser’s picture. He was the manager. ‘Nitials was W. H.,
and they used to call him Budweiser.

“Didn't have much during the war. I remember one game
little Jake Wade came up here to play for that school down yon-
der—just a high school team, y'know, and set ’em on fire. After
the war in ’46 we had the best prospects in some years, and in
47 we should have really went places. We didn’t do bad, either,
but we missed some chances.

You Forget The Scores, But Not The Boys

“I can’t remember the scores of none of these games. Got
most of my programs at home. Too many games to keep up with.
But you can’t forget some of them boys.’’

The Doctor confessed to having withheld information, but
defended himself with the perfectly fair assertion that ‘‘It ain’t,
always best t’tell everything you remember.’’

He's seen a lot of them come, and a lot of them go. The Doc-
tor has. And he's one they'll be seeking out when they start
coming in here this weekend. Second to Chambers and Rumple,
he’s the first thought the word Davidson brings to the mind of
any boy ‘who ever asked him for a towel or a pair of shoe strings.
For memory’s sake, many will look past the beautifully spacious
eonfines they find him in now, and remember the cluttered, '
crowded equipment room in Alumni Gym that was so long in-
separably associated with Doc White.

WELCOME ALUMNI
Let’s Beat Those Generals

Wilson-Wright’s

Invites you to inspect their new store
during your stay in Davidson.

Complete Clothiers for Young Men
WILSON-WRIGHTS

Located Two Doors Below Bank

SPORTS SECTION

Stockton Twins
Carry Cat Hopes

By BILL COE

The Wildcat cross-country team
launches the Homecoming activities
today when they run the Washing-
ton and Lee harriers at 11 a. m.

Although the ‘Cats haven't been
too successful this season with a
record of 0-3 they are going to be
on the rebound, led by the Stockton
brothers, Tom and Dick, both of
whom have shown their superiority
on cross-country runs to date. W.
& L., led by Echols Harnsberger,
is of unknown strength, but always
powerful.

On October 13, the University of
North Carolina team defeated Da-
vidson by 24.34. Tom Stockton was
first to cross the line, followed by
Gordon Hamrick of Carolina, and
Dick Stockton. Tom covered the
little more than four mile course
in a striking time of 21:30.

Last Monday, the team journied
to Durham to run the Blue Devils.
This was the best meet of the year
for the ‘Cats, altliough they were
edged by a score of 25-30. Again
Tom Stockton won first place hon-
ors with an outstanding time of
20:47 over a four mile course. Sec.
ond and third went to Duke run-
ners while. Davidson's Dick Stock-
ton followed closely for fourth
place.

The team was hampered greatly
by the absence of Blake Bradley,
captain and number one man, who
was forced to give up running due
to a stomach ailment

The Kittens will run Lees-McRae
immediately after the varsity race
Saturday. The Kittens have a clean
2-0 slate having beaten N. C. State
and Pfeiffer Junior College.

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GENS RUGGED HOMECOMING FOE
Cross Country Team R

Wildcat of Week

Tricky Dick Stockton was enjoy-
;

ing reflected glory this week. Peo-
ple were mistaking him, as usual,
for twin brother Tom.

Tom, you see, has been perform-
ing like the corporal who took the
captain’s place and unexpectedly
won the battle. Except Tom's team
didn’t win the victories. Shoved into
the No. 1 spot on the cross country

STERN TALKS
STERN TALK

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1950

uns W.&L. At tt

Wildcats Have Been On Short End

Of Scores For Past Seven Years

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Davidson Homecoming, 1950 style, will mean the reviving
of old acquaintances and memories for many alumni, but for
the Davidson Wildcats, it will mean the toughest football as-
signment of the season. Coach George Barelay’s Washington
and Lee Generals, a formidable football opponent for anyone,

team when Blake Bradley was
forced to retire, Tom romped home
with wins last weekend over the
not to be thought lightly of Uni-
versity of North Carolina and Duke
cross country teams. .

When the news was first out that

Bradley, No. 1 man for two seasons, r

would have to hang up the spikes
this season because of stomach ‘

shoulders. He

x

*

74

a ae

trouble, ‘the mantle fell on Tom's

had, when Blake

caught a cramp at N. C. State in j

the opener, finished second to the .

Pack's soph sensation Clyde Garri. ‘

son, last fall’s frosh conference
king who stands a good chance 6f
repeating again this season.

At home last Saturday, it was
Stockton, T., first over the field
against Carolina, brother Dick fin-
ishing a respectable third. Monday |
the thinclads of Coach Pete Whit. |
tle tripped to Durham to engage
Duke, a team fresh from a skunk- |
ing of Virginia three days cartier.
Preacher Tom wasn't scared in the
least by the Devils and paced them
home.

It is hardly fitting to the Wild-
cat of the Week to imply that he
has stepped into this glory merely
because the man ahead of him was
forced to step down. He was giv-
ing Blake a fit in time trials, and
some dead heat finishes would not
have been unusual had Bradley
continued to run.

\
“we

~

a =

TOM STOCKTON
. . . Corporal Comes Through

‘Heart Warmed by ‘D’ Sweater, Stern Complimentary

With Credit of Victory, But Cats Got No Kicks

By DICK LILES

Down in Charleston last Saturday night, all was not as gay as one might think Charles-

~

o.

ton would be on such a night, at least for about 50 men ‘who had felt the sting of defeat
that very afternoon. Meanwhile their ardent supporters were literally up in the air at the
ole Alma Mammy when they heard golden-throated Bill Stern tell them that Davidson had
won over The Citadel by 19-12. The Davidsonians were cheering wildly, but no one group

knew how wrong old friend Stern
was than the hapless crew that
sat around the dinner table at the
hotel.

The wildcats met the Cadets with
a terrible psycological disadvantage
for it was Homecoming for the
Cadets and they were “up” after
being edged three times straight.
Only a few minutes passed when
Bohlen of Citadel skirted his right
end for 54 yards to set up a score
Coach Quinn Decker’s new quarter-
back “Find” Dick Zelinski com-
mander the victory-bound Cadets
masterfully, completing passes for
two of the T. D.’s and setting up
the other score. The Blue and
White ran well, uncovering a new
offensive punch while the defen-
sive team lived quite up to former
reputation and played bang-up
ball.

Davidson’s only real bright spot
was the passing attack engineered
by General Lambeth. Auburn com.
pleted 16 out of 22 passes for 205
yards which was practically all the
ground the Red and Black gained

W her. € you meet your friends

Charlottes Finest Restaurant

SHIP AHOY

‘all afternoon. Lambeth led both

scoring drives and several that didn’t
turn out that way. Runyan pulled
one in under the goal post for the
first score of the losers, and the
final score was climaxed by Ham
Wade carrying over from the one
after a sustained passing attack.
The game was marked with sev-
eral of brilliant goal line stands by
both teams, but the most exciting
was the one at the end of the first
half when Citadel was on the Cat

goal with four downs ‘to go. Zel-| dg

inski had passed for 48 and then a
15 yard penalty against Davidson
placed the ball within stepping dis-
tance of the goal. For the first
time in the game, the defensive
play was great on the part of the
Wildcats and they snarled and
brandished their teeth and the
pigskin got no further. The whis-
tle blew and it was still inches
from the marker.

The Cats greatest weakness in
the game was their inability to
block and get the ground attack

on the loose. Even with laxness of
play, the Red and Blackers came so
close to tying the game in the last
of the third quarter. The team had

moved the ball for 81 yards to the

Citadel eight. Three plays later it
was on the one. Coach Little took
a gamble on a hard driving half-
back, but fate intervened. Bill Bow-
ers fumbled the ball or it was too
low for him and D. C.’s chances
(Continued On Page Five)

Codie ted) Odds)

$$H6666066666666666668

bring to Davidson an enviable

For the Generals the game will
mean three things: a chance to
beat an old rival for a conference
win, a cltance to redeem them.
selves for last week's heartbreaking
loss to Virginia, and a chance to
get ready for their next opponent,
Tennessee. For the 'Cats, it could
mean only one thing—a Homecom-
ing victory over a team not beaten
by Davidson since 1943.

It was in 1943 when the ’Cats last
beat W & L. George and Tommy
Peters combined with such stars
as Red Bethea, Dick O'Hair, and
Ben Lacy for a 21-13 win. The
series was discontinued until 1947,
wher the Generals won, 32-0. Carl
Pahl, Doug Rice, Mack Erwin, and
Buddy Chandler were the ‘Cat

istandouts for that contest. In 1948,

it was a Davidson Homecoming,
and the generals barely eked out
a 21-20 win on the virtue of Mi-

‘chael’s true kick. End Mike Wil-
‘liams and back Cliff Turner turned

in a sterling performance in that
game for the ‘Cats. The 1948 con-
test also found a new star in the

, Davidson ranks—Auburn Lambeth,
_jwho completed 14 of 26 passes in
*" the game, and was acclaimed “Soph-

omore of the Week’? for his efforts.

In 1949, it was a W & L Home,
coming and the Generals rolled
over the 'Cats 53-0 for the worst
loss in the history of football at
Davidson. Gil Bocetti, the Generals’
classy “T’ quarterback was the
mainspring in that lop-sided affair,
and for Davidson, the game
brought out two more new stars in
Jim Fasul and Ham Wade.

This year it will be a punching,
passing, powerful W & L team that
boasts such stars as Gil Bocetti,
Talbot Trammell, and Bob Thomas.
The line, as solid as a rock,. has
paved the way for the General
backs with consistency all season.
The Generals had rolled over Fur-
man, West Virginia, and the Citadel,
with apparent ease before dropping
a heartbreaking 26-21 losg to Vir-
ginia last week in the final two
minutes of the game.

Coach Crowell Little’s ’Cats, in-
jury riddled and trying to. rebound
from last week's Citadel defeat,
face a hard task. They face a team
whose record is better and whose
margin of victory by comparative
score would be 34 points. With
Jack Branch, Bill McNeely, Henry
Wilson and Lee Talbirt out, the

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear

Jack Wood, Lid.

CLOTHES

It Cost No More To Dress Correctly

PPro error DOr rrr OOO

reeord and a fine team.

line will turn to stand-bys Jim Fasul,
Bill Acker, Jerry Wiser, Hoopie
Davis, and Bill Freeman for per.
formances. In the backfield, it will
be Roy White. Woody Leach, C.
L. Runyan and Ham Wade ready to
go for the ’Cats. Of course, David.
son Captain Auburn Lambeth will
be in there pitching from his “Lit-
tle T” quarterback post.

One of the nation’s best quarter-
backs, both as playcallers and as
passers. Lambeth, in completing 16
of 22 tosses against Citadel both
raised his total for the year and
brought him nearer the collegiate
record for completed passes in a
college career. Bocetti, although
just a junior, is widely known for
his faking ability and he will be
putting his reputation on the line.
This could well be an_ inter-
esting duel, both trom the view-
points of the quarterbacks and the
teams themselves.

Starlite

DRIVE-IN THEATRE
Salisbury-Landis Highway

WEEK STARTING
OCTOBER 19th

Wednesday and Thuraday
BARBARA STANWYCK
JORN LUND
—In—

“NO MAN OF
HER OWN”
CARTOON

Friday and Saturday
TIM HOLT
—in—

“ ARIZONA BAN GERS"’
—_— iso —
“MYSTERY IN
MEXICO’.
WILLIAM LUNDIGAN
SERIAL — CARTOON

Sunday
JUNE HAVER
-— in —
“THE DAUGHTER OF
ROSIE O’GRADY
CARTOON

Monday and Tuesday
“CHAIN LIGHTNING”
HUMPHREY BOGART

