FRIDAY, OfAY 19, 1960

paptwo ee avis
The Mecklenburg Declaration|Employment .
And Davidson College

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

GORDON SCOTT

EDITOR IN CHIEF
JOHN LOFTIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
EDITORIAL STAFF

was aeaweseewescecesooorsrs=

Associate Editors ~.-..--..--- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors ...----.-. Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor ~..--...-.--..------------------------- Arnie Covell
Managing Editors ...--.---- Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams,

George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard

Sports Editor-—Bill White Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin

City Editor—Nat Daniel Columnist—John Hobart
BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager -------------------~--------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager -.------------------------ Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ...------------------------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .----------------------------------- Jack ‘Turner
Subscriptions Manager ----.------- _ -------+-------20 0700777 Bill Hart

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Retiring President Cobb

During the course of the past year much has been written
about Whit Cobb the athlete, but to our knowledge there has
been little or nothing in print about Whit Cobb the Student
Body President. In the eyes of countless fans who watched him
in athletic events during the past four years, he had few peers.
In his role as Student Body President at Davidson, Whit has
done equally as well and we can't conceive of having a student
leader who could do a better job than Whit Cobb has done this
year.

First and foremost, he has ably executed the duties which
are connected with the office. The Student Council. under his
direction, has dealt fairly with all offenders who were brought
before it. In addition, meaningless and out-dated parts’ of the
the Constitution have been deleted after the proposals in ques-
tion were brought before the student body for a vote. No effort
was spared to keep the student body well informed as to the
course of action the Council was taking.

Not only was he a good executive. but ‘Whit possesses other
characteristics .which we believe made him the President he
was. On the platform he always had the necessary amount of
dignity, but when the occasion called for it he displayed a rare
sense of humor that always went over in a big way with the
students. Few will soon forget the choice poems he read or his
cheery salutations to the student body. Never outspoken either
in chapel or in the dormitories, Whit: has been an outstanding
counselor to all who have approsched him, and his sincerity
is unquestionable.

Whit Cobb has been good for Davidson. He has been a good
advertisement for Davidson when visitors were on the campus

eee rue an OP werner ts tt Mes oe ot hee

and student body. We believe that he represents everything
that is good about Davidson and that he best exemplifies what
people far and wide call a “typical Davidson man.’ Indeed we
feel fortunate that ‘we are privileged to be at Davidson during
what might be aptly called the Whit Cobb Era. To have known
and associated with this man during these years has been a
pleasurable experience which will not soon fade from memory.

The Elections Board Proposal

After suffering through another seemingly interminable
election period on the campus, we, along with the vast ma-
jority of students at Davidson. are ready for a change in the
election procedure. Nothing will be done about the situation
this year, but some defiriite action should be taken next year.
What these changes should be, we quite frankly haven't yet
decided ; however, we ean't go along with the Election Board
and endorse their proposals in full.

We will go along with them in their recommendations that
any candidate wishing to run for a office ean do so by filing
with the Chairman of the Board of Eleetions—that unsigned
ballots should be used to insure secrecy—that each student
would vote at a prescribed precinct desk—and that a minimum
of two days would elapse between each run-off.

The biggest faults as we see it concern nominations in gen-
eral and nominations of men for publications’ editorships in
particular. In a school the size of Davidson, it simply is unwise to
nominate men for all the major offices on one day and then
vote for all of these men on the same ballot at a later date. The
trouble, as anyone can plainly see, lies in the fact that in-
variably the same man is up for two or three different offices.
A man who fails to be elected to one post should be allowed
to run for another, Some will argue that there is nothing wrong
with having a man’s name appearing on the ballot for two or
three offices, but if such were the case, then it is entirely con-
ceivable that a man might be elected to two different major
offices. So it would seem to us, that no matter what changes
are made next year, nominations and voting for each office
must be carried on one at a time.

Another proposal which we strongly oppose is the recom-
mendation concerning the nominations of publications’ editors.
The proposal that all candidates be screened by the Publication
Board (to be composed of the editors and business managers of
the publications) isn’t practical. What do the editors and busi-
ness managers of say the magazine and the annual know about
the qualifications of candidates for the editorship of the David-
sonian, and vice versa? In the past, it has been the policy of the
publications to nominate men from their staffs for the respec-
tive positions. This method has proved entirely satisfactory in
years gone by, and we see no reason why a change should be
made now. However, we do favor extending the Publications
Board membership to include the editors and business managers
of all three publications.

We are in favor of a change in the campus political policies
as much as the next fellow, and we won't let the issue die down
next year; however, we feel that something more effective than
the proposals put forward by the Elections Board must be put
into affect before the unsatisfactory present system is improved.

The participation of the David-
son College military organization
and band in the May 20th celebra-
tion in Charlotte is not an innova-
tion as some think but a revival of
a very old tradition. There was a
time when the College closed its
classes and took a holiday for this
local anniversary. Students and
faculty alike journeyed to Charlotte,
sometimes on a special train, for
the festivities.

May 20 vs. July 4

In the days before the’ War be-
tween the States, Davidson was
much more closely identified with
Mecklenburg County then is the
cosmopolitan institution of today.
There were students who had heard
their grandfathers give first hand
accounts of the movement for In
dependence in Mecklenburg in 17-
75. Few Davidson men were un-

familiar with the history of May}

20th and the controversy concern-
ing it, As the Civil’ War approach-
ed, sectional feeling developed to
such an extent that many consider-
ed it a matter of patriotism to cele-
brate May 20th in preference to
July 4, overlooking the fact that
the earliest local declaration and
the national declaration a year lat-
er contained no point of conflict.

Faculty Grants Holiday

An example of this state of mind
is found in the faculty minutes for
July 2, 1860. Professor Rockwell
objected to giving a holiday on Ju-
ly 4th (the College then ran through
the summer) on the grounds that
May 20th had already been cele-
brated and two holidays were not
customary. Up to 1858, it appears
from the: faculty minutes that stu-
dents must make a request for a
holiday on May -20th before it was
granted, But on November 15,
1858, the faculty resolved “that
there be a junior exhibition on the
20th of May hereafter as a regu-
lar custom, the exercises to consist

of original speeches and declama-
tions, which will be distributed ac-
cording to scholarship as determin-
ed by the preceeding semi-annual
examination in February, original
speeches being assigned to those
whose standing is 9% or above, the
declamation to those between 95 and
92.”
The Great Centennial

The greatest celebration of May
20th was the Centennial in 1875.
In April of that year, the faculty
resolved that a holiday be grant-
ed and that students be permitted to
assist in the Centennial Celebra-
tion. The two literary societies, the
Eumenean and the Philanthropic,
even debated making a financial
contribution fo the Charlottee com-
mittee on details but concluded
(this being Reconstruction depres-
sion) that the state of their exche-
quers did not admit of it.

Too Much Celebration

The members of both Societies
did, however, participate whole-
heartedly in the revelry. It was
said that 40,000 people visited Char-
lotte, then a village of 6,000 and
for several days before and after
the 20th the city was given over to
parades, balls, orations and games.
The minutes of the Eumanean So-
ciety note of its:program on May
2Ist (the day after the big event)
that the brothers’ “speeches showed
the result of too great interest in
the centennial.’

Ubi Orta Libertas

" The last phrase of ‘Davidson’s
famous Ney motto refers directly
to the Mecklenburg Declaration.
“Let learning be cherished,” Peter
S. advised, “Where liberty has aris-
en.” Few then had any doubt that
liberty and independence had arisen
in the town of Charlotte, county of
Mecklenburg on May 20th, 1775.
And fewer still raised any objec-
tions to taking the day off to cele-
brate.

“BIKO” .,

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

Towards the end of a fiscal year
the business man will begin to add
up the- totals of the costs and the
profits of his enterprise and deter-
mine whether for Im the past year
has been a profitable one. If so, he
will start drawing up a plan for the
next year, based on his past exper-
ience and with the objective to im-
prove his work. Not only the busi-
ness man. does this.

In every man’s life there is some
thing like a fiscal year, a period at
the end of which he stops and looks
back on the past, adding up the
positiva and negativa and making
plans for the future,

As I now, short before the end
of this year, begin to look back up-
on my own experiences in order to
add up the costs and profits I find
that there have been no costs and
that this time has been profitable
only.

Innumerable chances have been
offered to me to broaden my out-
look on life in general and on Amer-
ican life in particular and I have
more or less tried to usé them, All
my fraternity brothers, who have
been wonderful hosts and many oth-
er friends have tried to make my
year in America as profitable and
as pleasant for me as possible. And
the school through many of its
faculty members has given to me
many new thoughts and vatuable
ideas so that I may use them in the
future.

T have had many chances to see
other parts of this country and
have learned to love it. The column
of my profits is indeed a long one.

On the other hand I have tried,
more or less efficiently, to explain

and

to you our way of life and. give to
you a brief picture of our thoughts.
only to find that they do not dif-
fer very much from yours.

When.now, at the end of my ex-
perience someone would ask me to
summarise in a few words my im-
pressions of this country then 1
think T would say that the Ameri-
can people are among the friend-
liest and most tolerant in the world.
Vhey are very idealistic and will-
ins to stand for their ideals, no
matter what. comes. In comparing
America and Europe, [ would say
that the first seems to me like a
young idealistic man, who strong,
impulsive and very self-assured is
entering life, edging on many corn-
ers but nevertheless following his
set path, while Europe seems like
an older pentleman, who often
times sticks to the past, very con-
servative and sometimes disgusted
with this young man, who is about
to take the teading role in this
world away from him.

May America, when growing. old-
er and wiser, still never lose this
vigor and idealism. of youth, which
essentially is positive and construc-
tive. | shall take this year in Amer-
ica as a long term loan, given to me
by you (the influence of Prof. C.
K. Brown's economics course in
this article is obvious indeed) and
I shall do my best to pay it back
in the future. I hope that sometimes
T shall be able to use all I learned
here in helping to build a better
world, where peace and understand-
ing will be dominant,

For now I can only thank every-

one of you, and I do this with all
my heart.

Letter to the Editor

8 May, 1950
Editor The Davidsonian:

There has recently been a lot of
controversy over the present elec-
tion system. It seems to me that
this is due to the fact that a good
number of the student body does
not know the candidates. Cam-
paigns are designed to introduce
the candidate to the voters. Jack
Hazard mentioned mud-slinging
and bad feelings as a result of cam-
paigns, 1 do not feel that there is
any need to sling mud.

I suggest that candidates for
elections should be allowed to pre-
pare speeches to be presented in
Chapel. The speeches should con-

tain the qualifications of the candi-
date and what he expects to do in
office, and anything else he wants
to throw in. Hf he does not want
to deliver a speech, let him print
it in The Davidsonian or some oth-
er campus publication created for
that purpose. I see no reason why
the candidate cannot be his own
party. After he has made his speech
then let him remain quiet and await
the election returns. In this fashion
voters would know for what and
for whom they were voting. I do
not see where campaigns of this
sort would leave room for mud-
slinging.

Sincerely,

Sam C. Cumming, Jr.

Opportunities For
Business Majors

The largest single career field
open to college graduates is in the
management and operation of busi-
ness firms according to a study by
the U. S. Department of Labor's
Bureau of Labor Statistics, The
number of graduates from univer-
sity business-courses has risen very
rapidly in the past 30 years. In
1920, 1,500 students were granted
bachelor’s and first professional de-
grees in business administsation
and commerce. By 1940, there were
19,000 graduates. During the war,
enrollment and graduations fell
substantially, but after the war, the
tremendous flow of veterans into
business courses was reflected in
the record figures of 38,000 grad-
uates in 1948, arid more than 60,000
in 1949, Even more will graduate
this June. The great rise in training
in business has made collegiate
business education the second larg-
est field after teacher training, plac-
ing it ahead of engineering, agri-
culture, law, and medicine. What
are the employment prospects for
these graduates? ,

Several factors affect the long
range employment outlook for stu-
dents in this field: the growth of
business administration employ-
ment, heavy replacement needs ex-
pected over the coming years, and
increasing use of business adminis-
tration graduates to fill these jobs.

It is likely that total business em-
ployment will continue to grow
over the long run, causing a mod-
erate increase in the number of
executive jobs. There also will be
a continuation of the trend toward
greater specialization and increased
complexity in business. This has
led to the wider use of such spec-
ialized workers as accountants, per-
sonnel workers, market research
analysts, and sales executives.
However, a large part of this de-
velopment has already taken place
and it is not likely that it will have
as much effect in creating open-
ings for managerial workers as in
the past.

Although the demands for grad-
uates of collegiate. business cours-
es aré expected to increase in fu-
ture years, there will continue to
be severe competition for the bet-

ter jobs which lead to executive
Tiscodeog, 1947 oncd 1048,

there was a strong demand for
business graduates by business
firms making up their wartime de-
ficit of administrative and profes-
sional trainees. In 1949, a decline in
business activity caused many com-
panies to curtail their recruitment
programs, As a result there was
keen competition for available jobs
among the record crop of more
than 60,000 business graduates, and
many were not immediately able to
find jobs which matched their quali-
fications. It is too soon to tell defi-
nitely whether this situation means
that the number trained has only
temporarily outrun the long-run de-
mand and immediate replacement

pwclebewe

needs, or whether business cannot

normally absorb this many grad-
uates in executive trainee jobs or in
beginning jobs in specialized fields
such as accounting and advertis-
ing.

The main source of new job op-
portunities for graduates of busi-
ness schools will be in the replace-
ment of executives now employed
as they die or retire from business.
New graduates will not, of course,
obtain top jobs, but the dropping
out of those holding responsible
jobs results in promotions within
the organizations and vacancies in
beginning jobs, A large proportion
of the executives in the higher-
ranking administrative and techni-
cal jobs in industry are in the up-
per-age brackets where many leave
each year because of death or re-
tirement. This means that a high-
er percentage than usual must be
replaced during the next 10 to 15
years. Many companies are serious-
ly concerned about this problem.

Will graduates of university busi-
ness courses be hired for executives
positions in preference to those
without degrees, other qualifica-
tions being equal? Present indica-
tions are that a growing proportion
of both top level jobs and special-
ized operating jobs will go to these
business graduates, Educational re-
quirements for business executive
positions are being increased, in
line with the trend toward higher
educational requirements in many
other fields of employment. Event-
ually, college graduation may be
required for most jobs at the ad-
ministrative level. Not all of these
jobs will go to graduates of busi-
ness courses, however, since engi-
neers, lawyers, and other profes-
sional workers will be competing
strongly in many industrial fields.

The Last Event ;

\ ad

Ca

By HENRY E. HANSEN

On Saturday evening, June 5,
1950, at 8:15 will be presented the
last important musical event of
the entire year, While it has been
the custom to have music at com-
mencement before this, this particu-
lar concert will be on a scale of
importance and present a soloist
of such distinction as to make it
unusual in the light of other such
events in the past. Though unus-
ual in comparison it cannot.be said
that it will in any sense be unusual
in relation to the events of this par-
ticular year. Music and its appre:
ciation has this year shown a spec-
tacular sort of mushroom growth.
Mr, Pfoht has added much to the
scope of his activities which direct-
ly or indirectly has made the influ-
ence of Davidson as a liberal arts
college felt in an increasingly wider
area. His assumption of the con-
ductorship of the Charlotte Sym-
phony Orchestra and his augment-
ed activities here and elsewhere
have given direct benefit to the stu-
dent body and to many others in
surrounding areas. Phi Mu Alpha
has been increasingly active this
year and, if plans now in formula-
ticn turn out successfully, will play
a role of increased significance mu-
sically in the future. Nor has the
student body been quiescent in the
receipt of these richer musical of-
fermgs. Proof of the growing inter-
est taken by students in music is
the fact that the enrollment in the
music appreciation course which

has been so rewarding has increas:

ed to the extent that next year it
Handel

* en a

will be impossible for one profes-
sor to handle the entire number of
those who wish. to take this course.
In these and a hundred other smalt
er but no less important ways Da-
vidson is growing, maturing, and
benefitting both its own name and
its students in the area of music
and its appreciation, one so vital
to a liberal arts college. The bet-
ter future predicted by a good past
is certainly becoming an actually
musically.

Thus it will be a fitting climax
that Mr. Robert Merrill, Baritone
and the Charlotte Symphony Or-
chestra under Mr. Pfohl’s baton will
both be presented here in concert
to the graduating students, their
friends and parents, and, it is hop-
ed, any others who may find this
a most attractive time to- return to
the campus and renew contact with
its life,

The concert will be held. with
the cooperation of our recalcitrant
weather, in front of Chambers. And
even if it rains, which for the grad-
uation of the class of °50 it surely
will not do, the concert will be
one of great excellence; and it will
provide the climax to a year of
superlative musical activity, a year
unequaled in the past and indicative
of things to come.

Mr. Merrill, a singer whose name
needs no gilding, will present, in
conjunction with the Charlotte
Symphony, an excellent program,
The program, barring last minute
changes always in the offing, will
consist of the following:

Suite from the “Water Music”

Mozart .-£.......---.---.--<----.- Excerpt from “Don Giovanni”
Deh Vieni Alla Finestra
Massanet ......------..------------ Excerpt from ‘Heriodiade”
Vision Fugitive
Rossini ~....---.-----.----------- Excerpt from “Barber of Seville”
Largo al Factotum
INTERMISSION
Strauss -...--.-.-~----------.---- On the Beautiful Blue Danube
Romberg ..-....--..-.----.----- werennee---- Stout Hearted Men
Youmans ...-.----.------------- 22-2 eee Through the Years
Gershwin ~-.--.-..------~~-.----------- I Got Plenty of Nothin’
Burleigh ..-..-...---.--.----- Nobody Knows the Trouble I Seen
Wolfe ...----- ewe een em enn enn ee ne en eee n ene n enn n Glory Road
Wugner ....--.-.---------.-.- Excerpts from “Die Meistersinger”

Prelude to Act III

Dance of the Apprentices, Act IIT
Entrance of the Mastersingers and Finale, Act ITI.
Tn addition to the program above there will, of course, be a number
of encores by both Mr. Merrill and the orchestra,

VISIT THE

Charlotte Waffle Shop

“‘ACROSS FROM THE BUMING CORNER”
ON WEST TRADE STREET

bbb bebsbAs’d

a

Here, in the Textile Department of
North Carolina State College, there
is always a friendly crowd of stu-
dents. And, as in colleges every-
where, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps

make these get-to-gethers some-
thing to remember. With the college
crowd at North Carolina State as
with every cr6wd — Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way ... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
CONCORD, N. C.

© 1950, The Coca-Cole Company

.
