SNOWBALLING
IN MAY

Richardson Field lies
green and lazy these
warm May days, fre-
quented _ occasionally
by sunbathers and way-
faring butterflies, the
latter not to be mis-
taken in type or in-
tensity for the vast
hordes present shortly
before kickoff time on
autumn afternoons.

It is pleasant to sit
in a cool office nearby, &
protected from the sun's
rays by venetian blinds
and listen to a man talk about snowballing. True. the phrase-
ology takes your mind off the heat, but the real pleasure comes
in realizing that Crowell Little is spealing in terms of building
football to a healthy competitive level once more at Davidson.
His rebuilding program is the main ingredient for this snowball
which he hopes to start rolling in Charlotte tonight.

In the Panel Room of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church
tonight eager Davidson alumni will shove their chairs back
from a $1.50 dinner and nod .approva) as Little starts tossing
his snowball. The energetic gentleman whose aggressive ways
on the gridiron have already earned him the nickname Cruel
Crowell is out to get eruel with the alumni. Better said, he will
begin the organization of systematic solicitation, with or with-
out scholarships, of high school huskiés who otherwise would
drift, without a word spoken by Davidson, into the waiting arms
of another coaching staff.

‘“‘This program is no new athletic policy toward football.”
Coach Crowell hastened to explain. ‘‘It is just a matter of getting
this thing organized, really going out after ball players if we are
to play football like we want to play. It will.do away with the
piece-meal business of getting a good boy just at random or by
chance.” In short, it constitutes getting more for our money—
bigger and better ball players by the alumni’s beating the
bushes, encouraging, and helping to finance boys needing
scholarships, all in keeping with the NCAA’s Sanity Code.

HOW FAR TO PAYETTEVILLE ?

Looking at the pile of blue prospect-information forms over
which Little peered at you and the list of names on the black-
board nearby, you knew that this man was already well along
the way in upholding his end of the deal.

Week-end after week-end back during the late winter and
early spring. high school and prep standouts flooded the David-
son campus. Coach Crowell and staff went after virtually every
boy recommended for the Shrine Bowl game, and more; invited
them up; and went all out to sell them on Davidson. Certainly
that enthusiasm has not been present here since Bill Story gave
it a try back in 1946. But Story’s program was more or less like
a League of Nations that failed. It stirred them up for a while.
but didn’t have the organization or strength to keep the alumni
working, which, in turn, will keep the alumni from griping.

As Coach Little says, ‘‘We cannot expect too big a thing
next fall. But I am hopeful that in another year we will begin
to see the fruits of our labor. This thing will snowball with
publicity, with enthusiasm among the students and alumni. and
with results.” Permit a cheer for that final phrase, ‘‘and with
results.’’ Once that phase has been reached. the program should
be able to keep itself going and growing with its own momen-
tum. Nothing promotes and encourages like good results.

It makes you feel good to talk to a business-like, efficient
man like Crowell Little. He impresses you immediately as know-
‘ing what he wants, and better, how to go about insuring that
he gets it.

You were liking him the more you talked to him. Then
Dick Redding popped in, buzzed some hush-hush into his ear,
and Coach Crowell looked up: ‘‘How long will it take to drive
to Fayetteville?’ You concluded your talk, and he was off to
snowball again.

SIGN-OFF ‘TIL SEPTEMBER

Come the next fall which Coach Crowell is building for, the
seniors will no longer be with us. They will be a part of that
business suited and filthy rich alumni set that grandstand
quarterback far better than Auburn Lambeth or Johnny
Guiton will be able to do. Can’t you just see Jake Wade and
Buddy Chandler strolling into our first home game in double-
breasted pin stripes. Chandler puffing a big cigar and Jake
gnawing on an apple. And the program editor? Old Sheckles
Roddey, hisself. Come to think of it, maybe we do owe it to
these guys to Jet them work the stands after all. They’ve never
exactly done anything we’d regret.

By BILL WHITE

Looky Heah, You-All Red-Blooded Sons of The Old South,

Wildcat Sports

FINAL FLING
‘TIL FOOTBALL

FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

CLIP AND SAVE: CONFERENCE CHAMPS'!!

oP ad

ik

q
. an | program, + ad Score gbove H7 on the 36 hole
_ .- ae. 1 The finat results are as fotlows:] tournament play.

Everybody's happy—and well chey might be, for this picture was taken after the Roddey-Cobb duo took | Kappa Sigs -...  ----- 984 1-5 In copping tithe place for. the
the doubles in the Southern Conference tennis meet, following Roddey’s brilliant singles win. Shown are | KA's --..------  ------- -972 1-3 Wildeats, Hill and Sloan took team
Bo Roddey, Coach Derrick Barton, Prof. Frontis Johnston, who presented the trophies, and Whit SAE's ..----- _. . $30 7-13] honors by bagging scores of ‘151.

Cobb. Phi Delts -.. .------- 827 1-2 (Continued on Page Four)
. Retas -2-2--- 0 see 794 3-10) -——— >
Phi Gams .--. _--. 790 8-9 | Pi Kapps -------  --.---- 585 7-15

It pays to patromze Davidsonian Si spe - ~ yet
spticare Vou" ; . {Sigma Chi'’s -. ee 053 1-2 | SPIES coe--.-0 0 ---- 2-515. 1-5
y, ! | J VE advertisers. Vou a Lind feputable Pikas c2.------0 0 ----+- §92 7-15° Campus Club wee lene ene 366

Palmer End Careers This Week-End| sas,

By CHARLIE HAWKINS
Coach Derrick Barton’s tennis team will try to end a
very successful season here this afternoon and tomorrow after-
noon in two matches with the Deportivo Club of Chapultepee.
The Mexican amateur
touring several southern schools, and recently, they made a

Mexico.

Pritchett Captains
‘51 Thinclads; Team
Sends Eight To Hill

By JIM FARRAR

Friday and Saturday of this week
eight men from the 1950 edition
of the Wildcat Track squad will
travel to Chapel Hill to participate
in the Southern Conference Track
Meet being held there May 19-20.

Among those.going is Bill Prit-
chard, captain of the °51 thin clads,
who during the season traveled ov-
er the high hurdles at a 15.1 clip.
On the one mile run will be Blake
Bradley, while Bob Long and Dave
Anderson will compete in the two
miles. In the high jump will be Bob
Henderson, who has during the
season shown definite possibilities
to do well at the meet. In the discus
Davidson will have three men —
Don Lazenby, Jim Vann and Bob
Sharpe. This year’s captain of the
track squad, Jim Vann, tossed the
discus 140 feet in a regular meet,
which is just six feet shy of the
school record.

The first three places at the Sou-
thern Conference will go to Atlan
ta the following week end to par-
ticipate in the Southern Southeast-
ern meet to be held at
Tech,

——_—_——

Cuhnul Story’s Returning To Tell The Tales Of Yesteryear

By WHIT (IRVIN S.) COBB

proteges, and president of the D
Club, tes us that Coach Story ac-
cepted the invitation this week af-
ter much negotiation. The rumor
has it that Bloody Bill, as he was
affectionately called during his
short but fruitful stay here, was
scheduled to speak at a meeting of

Former Davidson College foot-
ball coach.Bill Story, the southern
gentleman with the demagogic lin-
go, will return to his stamping
grounds on Monday evening, Mav
22, as guest speaker at the D Club
banquet,

Jake Wade, one of Coach Story’s

¢

9, ORIENTAL

RESTAURANT

BEST CHINESE AND AMERICAN FOOD
OPEN DAILY FOR LUNCH AND DINNER
126 W. TRADE ST.
PHONE 2-2238
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

the U.D.C,, but President Wade
was able td persuade him to come
back and relive again the days of
yesteryeat, ‘when the way to block
aman Was to ram your head
through him, and the way to be
big was to think big.

* It will be remembered that under
Coach Story the Wildcat gridsters
enjoyed two of the most fruitful
seasons in Davidson history. Coach
Story retired from coaching afte:
his second season to take a position
in the education system in Norfolk,
Va. He came to Davidson from
Granby High School in that same

town where he turned out some of

the finest grid machines in south-
ern high school history, coaching

such outstanding boys as Carl
Eborn, Sandy Carnegic, Easy
Rhodes, and Chuck Stobbs.

Welcome back to Davidson,
Coach Story, and stay as long as
you will,

Sigmas Close Strong In Softball Play
To Seize 4th Straight Championship

By DICK LILES
For the fourth consecutive year. the Kappa Sigma fra-
ternity has eaptured the Interfraternity Athletic Award for
compiling the greatest number of points in intramural com-
petition, This vear the Kappa Sigs squeezed by the threatening

ey 5

Georgia

The SAE's came in third closely
followed by the. volley-ball chanips,
the Phi Delts. The Beta’s cane in
fifth with the Phi Gams only 3
points trailing for a sixth place,

The trophy will be presented to
the Kappa Sigma sports manager
Charlie Pearson in the special ath-
letic awards day in chapel Man-
day. On that day,’ spring sports let-
ter winners and outstanding per-
formers for the year in ‘athletics
will be publicly recognized.

This year there were 304 con
tests played by the Greeks among
themselves which is a new record.
This was the first year that hand-
ball and swimming were introduced
into the program. Next year also
promises to be a big one in inter-
fraternity sports for work has al-
ready been begun on planning the

VON J
BG Y ;

tennis stars, have been

clean sweep of their match with [/V/
Southwestern, easily winning both .
singles and doubles. tr: "SS
The Deportivo team is composed
of numerous Mexican Junior Da-
vis Cuppers, and their number one] |
man, Afredo Millet, Jr., beat Der-

Rad 9

rick Barton's running mate of Davis
Cup competition in 1947, All the
Mexican netters sport a test of tour-
nament. championships, and they
will be trying to add to their win
streaks here, Members of the Mex-
ican team are Alfredo Millet, Jr..
Frederico Cerantes, Luis Pifkohl,
Jr., Rodolfo May, Alberto Daniel,
Jr., and Carlos Houcasivas,

Ro Roddy and Whit Cobb, the
last word in Davidson and South-
ern Conference tennis, will be out
to end their college careers and the
tennis season in fashionable style,
Roddy, fresh from his convincing
win over UNC's Clark Taylor, has
shown he has what it takes to make
a real tennis star. His precision
shot-making was breathtaking last
week in the Southern Conference |»,
Tournament, and the Wildcat ace] £:
will be out to continue his winning
ways. Bo will team with Cobb, onc
of Davidson's greatest all-time ath-
letes, in the doubles; the two won
the Southern Conference doubles
title last week end by virture of
consistent and spirited playing.

Much credit is given to Coach} '
Derrick Barton, the old pro, for]; :
turning out such a good Wildcat] °
squad this year. Even with such
good material as the 'Cats had this
year, Coach Barton was a vital fac-
tor in the success of the tennis 4
team.

eh.

a de

M8S VOICE is in demand around the clock—network
radio... theater appearances... motion pictutes...
dance dates (over 100 last year)... plus recording
hic tunes that sell in the millions of copies. Vaughn
Monroe is the singingest band leader ia the U. S. A.

SOFTBALL STANDINGS

Y LIVINGIE

DIRE

K A's by 11 13-15 points, finishing fast in the softball competition.

Cat Golfers Finish
Fifth In-Conference

By WOODY McKAY

Davidson College's golf team
stroked its way into fifth place
among Southern Conference team
competition.

Harvie Ward of U_N.C. won out
in his battle with Wake Forest's
Arnold Palmer to become champion
of the conference. and led his team
as they grabbed sccond place in
the final tournament standings.

Wake VForest*came through with
a record-breaking team score of
575 and grabbed the conference
crown from Duke University. The
winners’ top foursome didn't have

...$0 it$ only
common sense
that | smoke the
cigarette that
agrees with

Thea,

CMONCE QUALITY

Club Won Lost a

Betas --.-......------- 9 1

Phi Gams ---...-..-..- 7 3

Kappa Sig ---....-.-.- 7 3

SPE ...-..222..2.-.--- 7 3

Pika _................. 7 3 | NOTED THROAT SPECIALISTS REPORT ON 30-DAY TEST OF CAMEL SMOKERS..0

KA 22222 e eee 5 5

Sigma Chi -.--.-------- 5 O) ed °
nent +/[Notone single case intranion
SAE .....-......----.- 3 7

Phi Delts ~-.--....._-. 1 9

Campus Club ..-......- 0 10

Mooresville Ice
Cream Co.,

Makers Of
DeLUXE ICE CREAM

Mooresville. N. OC.

Camels — for 30 consecutive days.

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co,
Winston-Salem,

due to smoking CAMELS

Yes, these were the findings of noted throat specialists after
@ total of 2,470 weekly examinations of the throats of hun-
dreds of men and women who smoked Camels — and only

Make your own 30-Day
Camel MILDNESS Test in your
“T-Zone’ (T for Throat...? for Taste).
