The atmosphere out-
side the dressing room
at the Armory re-
minded you of a fu-
neral. A small group
milled about silently
waiting for the dead to
reappear alive after a
hot shower. No one
. spoke for.a while, then
somebody tossed in the
epitaph: ‘‘Boy, from
here on out, I’m buy-
ing them. Yessir, buy-
ing them—the bigger, J
the better. If they can’t §
sign their names, sign
it for them. Let them
take home ec. or anything they wish. But get ‘em!’

“‘You’re right. That’s the only way we'll ever play any-
more,” a fellow mourner assured the stunned speaker. .

A bit harsh, perhaps, but those are our sentiments exactly.
Not the part about signing the horse's name or letting him
slide through the course, but we'll stand forever and a day
on that part about ‘‘buying’’ them—the bigger the better.

With the revival of college football after the war, the so-
ceatled weak sisters of the Southern Conference were faced with
a decision. Should they continue the fast-fading practice of at
least a pretense at simon-pure athletics as they were able to
do a decade ago with moderate success, or should they loosen
the purse strings and try to close the vap—partially, at least—
with the big colleges and universities who were making the
old-time slave markets look like pikers in. the purchase scramble.
‘Most of them chose to fatten up football scholarships and also
throw out a few more of them. We won't say that some even
winked at grades to keep their bozo’s in school, but we doubt
that any one with his eyes open will deny that that is being
done to some extent some where. But those schools making the
decisions openly and above board Avent after top high school
talent, made them attractive offers for football ability, and the
bovs were enticed to come and play—not for pay always, but
for expenses.

Now then. Davidson attempted to go it about half way with
the 1946 season launching with Bill Story at the coaching head,
and the Bloody Man from Norfolk turned out a fine team.
No one was being paid a salary, no convertibles or train tickets
to every game for ma and pa were being handed out, no one not
keeping that grade line at “C’’ was playing ball, vet a few—
un few—top prepsters were lured onto the campus in the next
couple of vears. But the material that Story had started with
in 1946 ran out. There had been no long range recruiting plan,
just those ‘‘few’’ entieed at random.

It was several veurs before the effects began to show. Then
came 1949, last year, and the teams that had formerly been in
the lower half of the league with Davidson ‘were beginning to
show the fruits of their 1945-46 decisions. Citadel licked us
25-19, Furman 21-6, Washington and Lee 53-0, VME 47-6, and
even Richmond 28-7. These were schools that had been in our
league, remember?

This year, the fact has been rubbed in again. The VMI
walloping really impressed it; Fortunately and hopefully, sqnie-
thing is heing done about it. We are several years behind, but
the Wildcat Club shows that the alumni. also gets embarrassed
when they hear a crack like: ‘Hey, Joe. How can the Cats get
beat by today and still win a moral victory ’”’

To coin it, that stuff is getting old.

This, then, is a thanks to those men who still remember
how it feels to get beat. and it is also an urge to them not to let
up. For pete’s sake, let’s do it right and ail the way this tine.
Certainly, make grid reeruits uphold the scholastic standards
every other student must, but make them offers attractive
enough to get them here. Our “‘little sisters’? have proved that
athletes can be found who ean play football AND stay in school,
and they have gotten these rarities because they have made
a nicer offer.

An interesting question on that fake football questionnaire
in chapel last year, placed on the paper for the purpose of an-
{ngonizing, asked: ‘‘Do you want your school to be known for
its football team?’’ Naturally. the reply must be, no, for the
scholarship and high standard of gentleman-production it has
long been known for.

But actually, to too, too many people Davidson is known
for its football—leaving other athletics for the time—it is known
currently for its poor football teams. One of our ends overheard
this comment at the Central-Reynolds high school. game:
“Daddy, is Davidson a junior college?’’ To which poppa replied,
“It sure is, son. It sure is.”’

We caught this one at the same game: ‘‘T certainly hope
Parker won’t go to Davidson, 1’d hate to see him wasted for
four years there.’’

That's what they're thinking, and it doesn’t help your
school from any angle—athletic or not. After we get this thing
rolling. the game gates will pay for the investments, boys will
be helped, and we can hold our heads up again.

It’s like the chicken or the egg gay. Which is first, bigger
crowds and then better players or better players to bring bigger
crowds? A chicken laid the ege that brought the feathered
nation. A player—or two, or twenty—are musts to lay the nest
eges from which our grid prosperity will hatch.

By BILL WHITE

Shipley, Kitten Runners Post Splendid

By JACK EFIRD

The next victim of the harriers
was Pfieffer Junior College 23-38.

The present freshmen cross-
country team is proving itself one

,
s
Lo ys
nr cer re PR = .
Sp rr SS SS SS SSS SSSR. SSS

of the best in the recent history of
Davidson. As of this week, they
have won all four of their meets.
The first test was by far the clo.
sest for the Kittens. They defeated
North Carolina State by a mere
one point 27-28. Bill Shipley de-
feated the former state prep mile
champ Bob Shoakley for first place
with two other Staters finishing
third and fourth. However, the Kit.
tens picked up their other points
when Bili Coe, Paul Alexander,
John Holt, and Bob Murray fnished
fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth.

In this meet Shipley again finished
in first place. This time he broke
the freshman record at Davidson
by running the two and a half mite
suited to this distance for he broke
miles instead of the usual two and
a half, but Shipley seemed better
course in 12:02.5. The old record
was set last year by Clyde Garri-
son and Bob Jones of North Caro.
lina State. Seven of the first ten
finishers were Davidson runners.

On Homecoming morning Lees-
McRae was defeated 24-36. This
is the only race of, the season Ship-

Wildcat Sports

NO

FOUR

PAGE THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

ATS HOF:

After Facing Va., W. & M. Today,
Runners At S. C. Meet Monday

By BILL SLEDGE

Not feeling the need or desire
Davidson's Cross Country team left Thursday for Char-] for the classroom, the Cats leave

lottesville, Virginia, where they are participating in a_tri-|for Raleigh this Monday to partici-
angular meet with Wilfiam and ‘Mary and the University of | pate in the Southern Conference
Virginia today. Coach Pete Whittle stated that he feels that | meet. The competition will be keen

STATE IN ‘49

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1950

TO REBOUND AT ’PACK

Wolves Wary of Wildcats After ‘49

But Fierce and Favored Tomorrow

By DICK LILES

‘It's time we ‘were rebounding, ourselves,’’ Coach
‘‘Cruel” Crowell. was saying the other afternoon while watch-
ing the Cats prepare for their all-important clash with the
Wolfpack of State College this week-end. He was referring to
the fact that Davidson had caught three straight Southern Con-
ference teams on the rebound from [| —_

his team, led by Tom and Dick Stockton, should ‘win this meet.

lf so, they will complete the reg-
ular season with a 4-3 record which
is, a respectable one, considering
how much the loss df Blake Bradley
hurt them. Coach Whittle opined
that if Blake could have remained

with the teams all season, they would
possibly hold a 5:1 record at this
time. Blake
was captain of the team and run-
ning ahead of Tom Stockton. With
his services, losses to Duke and
UNC could easily have been turned

As everyone knows,

Wildcat of the Week: Auburn Lambeth

By DICK ROPER

To the ranks of the greatest pass-
ers in the history of college foot-
ball, add the name of Auburn Lam-
beth. The shy, unassuming Wildcat
quarterback made himself a place
among the all-time greats when he
completed the 200th pass of his col-
lege career last Saturday afternoon
against VMI.

Even in the humiliating 46.6 de-
feat the ‘Cats suffered that day
Lambeth's brilliance could not be
denied. On a slippery, muddy field,
Auburn tossed eleven complete aer-
ials for ninety yards and one touch.
down—not a spectacular feat, but
it is this consistency of hitting his
receivers in either a” winning or
losing cause that has earned him
fame.

The remarkable thing about Lam-
beth’s success this season is his
average of completions. Through
the VMI game he had thrown 108
times, connecting 65 of them for
704 yards and a_ .618 percentage.
And he has. had but eight of his
tosses intercepted in seven games.

Although an injury forced him to
miss the Erskine game and a
chance to inercase his total, Au-
burn is certain to break his- own
record-of 77 completions made last
season, And, who knows? With a
little luck he may. still break the
all-time collegiate record of 240
completions, even though the Wild-

cats have but three games left on

Lambeth's 200th Pass Completion Only Cheer
For Slim Davidson Crowd In Loss To Keydets

The Flying Squadron of VMI
scored the first time they got their
hands on the ball in the first few
minutes of play last Saturday. af-
ternoon, and they didn’t slow down
for four quarters. Davidson’s hard.
luck Wildcats had caught another
team on the rebound, and that was
the story as VMI swept over Da.
vidson 46-6 before a rain-slimmed
crowd in  Chartlotte’s Memorial
Stadium.

It was the fifth time this year the
Cats had caught an opponent on
the rebound from the previous
week's play, and that spells trou-
ble for any team with such a sche-
dule as the Cats’.

ley hasn’t won. Carter of Lees-Mc-
Rae and Shipley were running neck
and neck all the way to the final
turn in the track. At this point
Carter put on a burst of speed to
win by a few seconds. The Kittens,
however, gathered enough points
to win the meet. .

The second meeting with Pfeiffer,
which Davidson won 23-49, was the.
best performance of the year for
Shipley. The course was three
the record at the Pfeiffer. course.
This, however, was not the only
record he broke. The North. Caro-

lina State Junior College record
(Continued On Page Six)

into victories.

Last Monday, the -Varsity and
Freshman teams went to Raleigh
for the state mect, both placing
fourth, due to lack of depth. In the
varsity meet the first ten men
broke the old record, Tom Stock.
ton placing third for the Cats. An
almost identical thing occured in
the freshman meet, with the first
three men breaking the record. Bill
Shipley placed third for the Wild.
kittens.

q

AUBURN LAMBETH

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

VMI kicked off to Davidson, and
two plays later Jerry Eggleston
of the Keydets recovered a C. L.
Runyan fumble on the Davidson
47 yard line. The Flying Squadron
pushed steadily down the field as

backs Anson, Birge and Stump al-

‘ternated carrying the ball to the

Wildcat 27 yard line. From there,
quarterback Jimmy Coley pitched
to end Neal Petree in the end zone
for the first VMI score. The place-
ment was good, and the Keydets

were off to an early 7-0 lead.

However, the Wildcats were not
to be denied so soon, and they
took a punt late in the first. pe-
riod and drove to the VMI 14
yard line as the quarter ‘ended.
This drive was highlighted by the
passing of Davidson’s ace quarter-
back, Auburn Lambeth. Throwing
to ends Dave Williams and Bob
Turk, then to halfback A. C, Gregg,
he completed 8 in a row between
C. I. Runyan’s line plunges. As
the second quarter began, Lambeth,
finding no receivers after fading
back to pass, twisted his way to
the 7 yard line. One play later,
the Cats scored as Johnny Guiton
took a screen pass from Lambeth
and sped over for the tally. The
try for the extra point. was wide.
VMI recieved the kickoff and pow-
ered their way down the field on
line-blasts by their bulldozing
fullback, Joe Stump. He scored
over the right side of the line

7} the schedule this year.

n this meet as there will be six-
teen colleges and universities repre-
sented there. North Carolina State,
West Virginia, and the University
of Maryland are the favored teams
in this meet. This will be the third
appearance of the Cats on this track
which should aid them some, as it
will be the first for many of the
schools competing for the Southern
Conference crown.

Leading the Wildcats will be
Tom and Dick Stockton with Bill
I.ee, Bob Henry, Dan McKeithan
and Dick Patterson rounding out
the team.

TS

There is one thing about the
lean ‘Cat quarterback that all the
coaches and players will let you
know in a hurry: he is a team
player. If Auburn thinks a pass
play will gain ground for Davidson,
he will call it. But if he figures
that a running play is the best
strategy, he will not hesitate to
call on any of the three men that
share the backfield with him.

That he has played so unselfishly
throughout his entire gridiron ca-
reer and still entered the select
circle is a further tribute to the gen.
ial Georgia boy. However, it has
not always been a question of what
plays to call. On some occasions the
opposition has had the Wildcats’
running attack so well stopped
that Auburn had no other choice
but to throw the ball.

Although he is recognized as
one of the best passers in the
State as well as greatest in Da-
vidson grid history, you will never
hear a word about it from Auburn.
Only a few weeks ago a sports
writer from one of North Carolina's
dailies found this to be true. In
the dressing room before a recent
game,
Lambeth, ‘“‘Who taught you to pass
the football with such amazing suc-
cess?” To which Auburn replied,
“Why, I dont know that I can pass
very well.”

We rather think: he can,

some plays later, the placement
was low, and the Keydets were
ahead 13-6,

The battle was nip and tuck af-
ter this until George Chumbley
intercepted a Cat pass and ran it
back to midfield. A 20 yard VMI
pass was good from Coley to
Chumbley, and with only seconds
left in the half, Anson passed to
Petree for the score. The try for
the extra point was blocked, and
the score was 19-6 at intermission.

The second half kickoff was ta.
ken by the Keydets deep in their
territory, and they ran it back to
midfield. Line blasts by Stump and
Birge and a 22 yard gallop by An-
son took the ball to the Davidson 2
yard line. Anson skipped over left
guard for the tally, and the conver-
sion was added by Birgé to bring
the score to 26.6,

Later, VMI tackle Dick McFar-
lin fell on an Auburn Lambeth
fumble, and the Keydets were off
again. A Coley to Birge pass was
good for 43 yards, and Birge
rammed over right tackle from a
few yards out for 6 more points.
His placement was good, and the
Flying Squadron had a 36.6 lead.

VMI's next drive was good for
68 yards as sub-quarterback A. J.
Marchand, trying to pass from the
Davidson 34 yard line, found no
receiver and ran instead for an-
other Keydet scofe. Birge convert-

(Continued On Page Six)

the newspaperman asked]. 3

te eS LeeLee eh

freak losses, and that it was our
time to do a little rebounding after
absorbing that licking from VMI
jast Saturday.

The boys at “Cow College”
haven’t casily forgotten the humi-
liating 20-14 defeat hung on them
by a plucky Wildcat club last year
and are priming for this game like
none other. No title is at stake or
no championship decided, but the
fierceness of play will probably
make one think there was, out
there on the gridiron this Satur-
day night. The Cats are working
especially hard on a suitable de-
fense to ‘throw up against the strong
attack of Mooney and O'Rourke.
All year long this has been the
weakest spot of the team and with
Jack Branch and Bill McNeely
still hobbling around, matters don’t
appear much better.

The Cat offense, which has had
no trouble all year gaining if no-
thing else through the air, is being
sharpened up considerably and the
effectiveness of the attack will rest
on the ability and arm of one Au.
burn Lambeth. Although with vir-
tually no blocking at the close of
last weck’s game, he completed 11
passes to bring his season's total
up to 65 and his collegiate record
to the select “200 Circle.”

C. L. Runyan, who reinjuried his
leg in Saturday's fray, was to have
been heavily depended on to du-
plicate his accomplishments of last
year when the two clubs met. Run-
yan was the “horse” in Davidson's
hard-fought victory with his tre.
mendous plunging attacks and also
his defensive game.

The popular thought

in the

coaches’ minds is “if we can only
keep the Wolves from our door,”
and the hope is that littl Henry
Wilson wil be backing up that
weakened line to help prevent this.
Henry has been out.since the first
half of the Furman game with a
fractured wrist and is ready to
go. He has to get the doctors’ and
coaches’ consent however and will
still have to wear a light cast. Other
bad news from the medical world
is that “Hoopie” Davis will not be
able to play due to his injured heel.
He has to lay off this week and
face a probable operation later in
the year. Defensively, both these
boys are needed and Davis espec.
iaJly on offense, to boot.

Dy

The Cats face a task this week —

that is not exactly a pleasant one.
Weakened and worn, they must
stop Mooney's running and passing,
and O’Rourke’s plunging. They
must also keep Costa out of our
backfield and try to shake Runyan
and Gregg loose, and protect Lam.
beth when the passing is needed.
The “Littlemen” are snarling and
wanting to prove that last year’s
game ‘was not just luck or a mis-
take. When the two touted teams
meet in Raleigh this Saturday, you
can bet your life on a good game
with plenty of fireworks and plenty
of hard foootball.

Many Davidson traditions ere of
comparatively recent origin. Fifty
years ago no one had ever heard
of the Wildcat, “O Davidson,”
Homecoming, the Chamber maids
or even the Davidsonian!

Se. o 27 Fi

0. L. RUNYAN ... State Won't Miss Him!
