PRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950

PAGE TWO | THE DAVIDSONIAN oe.
Negro Housing Deplorable

By TOM ABEL

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE
EDITOR IN CHIEF ooo BOB HOLLISTER
BUSINBSS MANAGER ..--.---..-.-.-----.... .... BILL HOUCK
EDITORIAL STAFF
Chief Associate Editor ..... weeecnceecccccccccccnc enecence Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor ...-....... wececncncceee. Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor ...-...-.-..---.-.---.......- -. Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnic Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors —- Dan McKei-
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart xchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
BUSINESS STARE

Assistant Business Manager --........--.--.---------.- Bill ‘Cassels
Advertising Managers Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison. ¢

wee pe eww eee cen we eon e

Circulation Manager-....- to eweececcceccnnnccenceccenenan--n= Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers —.---..-- ’ Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ....-...-.. ecnwnwcenccccccccecneoene John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ...... peer ecenncecennnnn nae en en ene Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Rejuvenated ROTC Dept.

Sinee September Davidson has witnessed a drastic change
in one of its instructional departments. No longer is R.O.T.C.
regarded as a fifty minute recess in a bnsy day. Colonel Ballard
of the Class of '39 has reorganized the unit by injecting interest
through an effort to understand each student individually, to
model the four courses alony lines. which will appeal to the stu-
dents and demand more effort on their part than has been re-
quired in the past.

The Friday of Midwinters Colonel! Ballard adyanced $2,
000,00 of personal funds to advanced students .whose wovern-
ment checks had been delayed. In so doing the Colonel not only
made it possible for a number of students to enjoy the week end
who could not have done so otherwise: but he also gave evidence
of his genuine interest in. and willingness to help each student.

Another manifestation of this new attitude is the individual
active participation of the members of the R.O.T.C. staff in the
weekly drill. In times past, members of the staff have been con-
tent to stand. by and look on as the reserve officers-to be went
through the maneuvers. Now they march or run along with
the studenits.

Although this fact is not especially noteworthy in itself, as
a mark of the R.O.T.C. units’ new policy, it is an indication of
a spirit of cooperation and sincere concern that is one of .our
goals here at Davidson.

The Old Gym

In his talk to the student body last Tuesday morning, Dr.
Cunningham mentioned several matters considered by the board
of trustees at their last meeting. One of these concerned the use
of the old gymnasium. He cited the prospective uses to which
it might be put, and then told us that a committee had been
appointed. to stndy the situation and make some recommenda-
tions about it. -

This study by the committee will undoubtedly take some
time, however, in’ view of all the facts that must be taken into
consideration. We would like to suggest that the gym he put to
use until such time as the committee decides what will be done
with it. There are many organizations in the community and the
college which could make very good use of ‘the main floor these
next three weeks. and it seems a shame to Jet it go to waste and
keep these organizations from using it.
~ Tam speaking particularly about the boys work and the
colored work in the community. Baskelball season is about ov-
er, but these two groups have had little opportunity to play,
since there are no facilities in the community. available to them.
Rather than keeping the gym locked up. it would seem to me ta
be a better idea to go ahead and let these groups use it, while
the committee is trying to decide what the final disposition of
the building will be. By the time the committee comes to some
decision, baseball season will be here and these groups will have
no further need for the gvm. Why not let these groups use it
for the next three weeks?

It is definitely understood that these. groups would bé su-
pervised, and that the gym would not be left unlocked at all
times. Each group could have certain times to use it with their
group leaders. after which the gym could be locked up again.

If this plan were followed, it would help the college
Y.M.C.A. work tremendously, and at the same time not interfere
with the plans for the disposition of the building. At any rate,
I fail to see ‘why’ the building should not be used while the com-
mittee is making their study, arid hope that some adjustment
to this situation may be made this week—R.L.T.

Wasted Time

In Rudyard Kipling’s poem entitled ‘Tf’? we find. these fa-

mous lines :
“Tf you can fill the unforgiving minute
With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run,
Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,
And—which is more—you'll be a Man, my son!’’

In many of our classrooms (50) fifty such minutes or (3,000)
three thousand such seconds are filled only with a very short
distance run. This condition, which is seen most clearly in class-
es that are based almost entirely on note taking, and there are
many such classes, could easily be remedied; and the resulting
transformation would lend itself to more profitable and interest-
ing classes.

At the present time a. student attending one of the above-
mentioned classes writes continuously from one bell to the next,
at which time he leaves with a cramped hand, several pages of
unrelated. notes, and a vague idea of what it was all about. The
professor has lectured directly from his notes, and the students
have concentrated on getting as much of his lecture in their notes
as possible. He cannot stop to listen and thereby relate the facts
given.

If the professors of these lecture courses would simply mimeo-
graph their notes and pass them out to the students at the be-
ginning of the semester, the courses would be more informative
and much more interesting. The student then could follow the
lecture, take part in discussion, and enjoy the class. This would
certainly be a vast.improvement over the present system con-
dueted by some of our professors —W. H.

We Would

Like to See

By GABE LOWE

‘More regular and more conven-
ient hours for purchasing books at

the College Bookstore.
e@® » @ @

Aw improved telephone situation
in the dormitories. We would like

telephone booths in the dormitories
with at least some degree of sound.

in the dormitdries it is difficult, and

hear what is being said on
phone. This is, especially true in
East and West, where the phones
are located under slate steps that
resound mightily with the fall of
every foot on them. Furthermore,
we would like to see the installation
of telephones on the third floors of
East. West, Watts, and Georgia
and on the other side of Rumple to
relieve the congestion of calls at
the single phone in each dormitory,
and to insure more prompt answer-
ing of calls.
s ¢ @ e

A student rating system in which
students would . rate - their profes-
sors each semester as to knowledge
of their subjects, methods of pre-
sentation, teaching ability, etc. This
would. provide a reasonable esti-
mate of a professor's ability to put
his course across to the students in
a complete and comprehensive man-
ner, and would sttow which profes-
sors are falling down ow. their job

as teachers. ‘
a a er |

proofing. With the normal noise

sometimes well-nigh impossible, to
the

scholastic standing, and abolition
of double cuts.
eo *®

A revised and ‘revitalized Cata-
log. inchiding under each course of
instruction a notation giving the
days and hours in which that cotrrse
will be taught. This would help the
student to plan his curriculum for
the coming year without having
conflicts in his schedule.

ree

An information and reception cen.
ter. for the convenience of strangers
on the campus.

* 2 @ @

Fewer ministers and more public
figures — lawyers, educators, politi-
cians, editors, and writers — to
speak to the student body. A revita-
lization of the nearly defunct lec-
ture series could bring a stimulation
of thought and a more active ex-
change of ideas among the students,
and would acquaint them with ideas
and theories that are spoken of in
whispers at Davidson. 4

e * eo. 6@

Publication of a humor magazine.
Scripts ‘n’ Pranks is a good colleve
literary magazine, but is wholly hu
morless. Davidson needs a publica-
tion that could fake its place along-
side the Covered Wagon of Okla-

.« @

homa University, the Duke and’

Duchess of Duke, or the Orange
Peel of the University of Florida.
Jokes and articles need not be
dirty to be humorons and enjoy.

A revised cut system, based onlable reading.

Cincinnati Symphony
Review

By HENRY E. HANSEN

It was my privilege to hear the
Cincinnati Symphony twice. On Fri-
day, the seventeenth, they played in
Rock Hill — the program was en-
tirely different and these two hear-
ings have strengthened my con.
viction that the group is one of
the finest musical organizations im
the country and that its conductor
is a man of understanding and
ability.

The’ program here opened with
the overture to “Russlan and Lud-
milla” by Glinka. This was weil
done, with enough restraint to pre-
vent the work from becoming the
usual hysterical ‘‘tour de force.’

Second on the program was the
Mozart Haffner Symphony in D

/-Major. It is in just such work as

this that the abilities of an orches-
tra are shown to clear advantage.
Production of a large volume 1s
important, but: in the Haffner,
essentially airy and graceful, soft-
ness with clarity is essential. The
Cincinnati accepted the challenge
to their own advantage. Through.
out the work the pianissimos Were
clear and pure with no muffing of
tones. The attacks were’ clean and
incisive and entrances clear. The
only fault was in the last move-
ment. In the passage identical
musically, but marked alternately
“ff.” then “pp.” FE felt that there
was not enough contrast. On the
whole, however, the work was
beautifully played and the interpre:
tation quife. competent.

The last number before inter-,
mission was “Job’’—-a Masque for
Dancing by Ralph Vaughn Wil
liams, the contemporary English
composer. It is a magnificent work
—Virile, exciting, and well able to
speak for itself. It was played in a
straight forward manner which al.
lowed: these qualities free expres-
sion. The work is divided into five
sections. Titles are given for each
section, but no additional notes,
and the music needs none. This
quality was typified in the second
section, “Satan's Dance of
Triumph.” All things Santanic are
clearly implied, even to the extent
of anxious looks into dark corners
for his Satanic Majesty’s presence.

In the fifth section, one had the
distinct impression that Job’s com-
forters were not so sorry as they
seemed to be. Their expressions of
sympathy sounded not a little sar-
castic. The use of the saxophone,
bass flutes, and muted trumphets
added greatly to the tonal interest.
Thermatically it is original. Inter-
esting in this respect was a theme in
the first section which bears a
striking resemblance to the “Black
Swan” song in Menotti’s “The
Medium.’ ,

After intermission we heard first
Don Gillis’ Portrait of a Frontier
Town. The first section was unique.
It is rousing music and, while not
great, is a good portrait. Themati-.
cally it resembled An American in
Paris gone Texan.

The second section, Prairie Sun-
set, was very effective and was
surprisingly unlike the Grand Can
yon Suite.

The third section was good hu-
mored and image provoking. The

playing throughout was excellent.

The Villa-Lobos “The Little
Train from the Caipira’ was a
charming number charmingly
played. The rhythm as well as the
conducting of Dr. Johnson, was
tantalizing. ;

The program closed with the
Strauss. Suite from “der Rosen.
kavalier.” . Beautifully played and
interpreted, it’ was a fitting finis
to a program distinctive for its va-
riety and excellence in both pet-
formance and interpretation’

FLICKER

Flashes

By HUGH SWAN

@ © © Excellent Picture
* * Good Picture
* Fair Picture
ee

Monday and Tuesday

“Always Leave Them Laughinc,”

plays Milton Berle and Virginia
Mayo. Milton Berle has had a great
Success ‘n night clubs, radio ans

television. Up to now he has never
He

played Berle in the movies.
played a cop, a gangster and simi-
lar roles, but never a comedian. In

this picture he plays a Berle-type
comedian, which makes him happy.
There would be no point in giving
you part of the plot—the pjcture

is built around the life of a com-
inedian using Berle’s jokes.

Here are some of Berle’s gags:

How can I avoid falling hair?—
step aside. The most

the wheel. Some husbands are like

telephone calls because they always

end .wp with the wrong numbers.
Some men are like Christmas trees
becanse—they’re. always ‘lit up.

Some batters are like suitors bé-

cause they're always trying to get
to first base.

e.6h6#}
Wednesday and Thursday

“Without Honor” plays, starring

Lorraine Day, Franchot Tone, and
Dane Clarke.
e e e
Friday and Saturday
“Battleground,”

cing Van Johnson, John Hodiak,
Ricardo Montalban and Denise Dar-

jcel (a new French actress). It is
the story of the 10Ist Airborne
Division attempt to hold Bastogue.
They succeed through the sweat,
blood and tears of the GI Joes who

fought so gallantly and unceasing-
ly. All of the typical
of a squad are portrayed as we'll

as a typical friendly French girl.
This picture has been widely ac.

claimed by many newspapers,
magazines and columnists. I have
seen the’ picture and personally

thing it’s ‘the most authentic pic-

ture of actual. warfare. to be pro-

“}duced by Hollywood.

“BIKO” — -

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

The discussion of this theory
would be useless if it would not be
applied to the following. There is,
however, a vrey close connection
between this theory and our present
world situation, For 1 believe, that

‘the development of recent history

shows us very clearly, hat we are
about to approach and witness one
of these collisions between two ex.
tremes. Making this statement re-
quires, of course, to prove it, and,
if this:is possible, to show how
the conclusions drawn thereof can
be applied to our situation and to

[the course that should be chosen

in foreign policy.

If a collision in the said sense
is about to occur, then there have
to be two extreme existing, which
cannot possibly continue to live
side by side.. These two extremes
we find in communism and in the
bastard form of individualism,
usually referred to as capitalism.
When undergoing a severe analysis
of both, it will be found that the
number of common factors is so
small, if there are any at all, that
it ts at all justifiable to call them
extremes.

Out of the individualism as was
asked for at the time of the French
revolution, and already before that
by philosophical forerunners, there
has developed an exaggerated form
which is found in most of the na-
tions with a capitalistic society. The
idea of the individual surpassing in
importance any other institution
within the society and thus having
a dominating status, and in the eco-
nomical field the ideal of “laissez
faire’ and its resulting in eco-
nomical and financial monopolies
are the main characteristics of this
form of society. Although the ideal
of “Laissez faire” today 7s not so
important anymore, its results are
still in existence and form a large
degree the economical part of the
setup of this society. The individual,
on the other hand, who has more
and more gained importance and
Position, is about to split up the
basic institution of any nation, the
family. This capitalistic form of
society, which is most developed
in the United States, has proved to
be unable to find an answer for
many problems resulting mostly out
of its economical setup. It is con-
fronting with helplessness the
serious problem of unemployment

and social care of the citizen in the
true sense of the word. Although

defenders of the system demand
that with time this problem will
be solved, it must be said that in

the present setup this seems to be
the ad-

impossible because of
vancing mechatiication of industry.
Thus the capitalistic society seems
to be unable to solve the present
situation which is mostly a result
of its own ideas.

Communism, which was said to

be the other extreme, is a philoso-
phy introduced by Kart Marx and
the German Hegel. The first and
also impo?tant aim of this philoso-
phy was.to find a place for the
great masses of industrial workers
without any productive capital. This
problem of the proletariat, which
arose with the tremendous increase
of industrialization in the later part
of the 19th century and the ques-
tion as to what social status should
be taken by the indusrial workers
—the existing system was unable
to provide any status—was claimed
6y Karl Marx to find a satisfactory
answer within the setup of society
that he thought would be the ideal
one. The classless society without
their own property, an internation-
(Continued On Page Six)

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

(1) “The Case Against Mercy
Killing,’ W. L. Sperry, American
Mercury, March 1950.

(2) “England’s Public Medicine:
The Facts,” J. H. Means, Atlantic,
March 1950.

(3) “Modernize The GOP”, Sen-
ator Ladge, Atlantic, March 1950.

(4) “Television — Hopes and
Limitafions,” C. H. Siepmann, Sur-
vey, January 1950.

(5) “Truman’s Third Term,” G.
W. Johnson, Atlantic, February
1950.

(6) “What Can We Expect Of
Europe?” James Burnham, Ameri-
can Mercury, February 1950.

(7) “Science, Secrecy, Security,”
E. U. Condon, Harper’s, February
1950.

(8) “The Mirage ‘Of Pensions,”
P. F. Drucker, Harper's, February
1950.

(9) “The World Economy Since
The War: Problems And Pros-
pects,” E. R. Black, Virginia Quar-
terly Review.

(10) “Great Churches Of Ameri-
ca —II. New Knoxville, Ohio,”
Christian Century; February 22,
1950.

dangerous
part of a car is the nut that holds

the first picture:
| to receive three stars; plays, star-

characters

Last Sunday morning a fire in a
colored residential section of Da-
vidson left four homeless and un-
covered one of the most deplorabie
situations in this conimunity.
Thanks to the generous response of
students and townspeople, the fam-
ily has been well clothed, although
at present they are having to live
with relatives: fifteen of them in a
three room house.

The situation stands thus: In this
immediate area there are eleven
homes, all of which are rented
and none of which have indoor
plumbing. In these houses, since
the burning of the Lowerv  resi-
dence, an average of about four
persons to a room “exist” as best
they can. In one house in particu-
lar, a five-room structure, twenty-
five human beings are living. Let's
look at some of the potential dan-
gers.

As these dwellings are located
quite close to the main business sec.
tion of Davidson, there is a ter-
rific fire hazard. Had it not been
for the wide-awake action of the
local fire department Sunday morn-

ing, at least two, and maybe sever-,

al more of these buildings would
have been leveled, not considering
-the possibilities of the fire’s spread-
ing to the business district.
Further, the health hazard in-
volved is of tremendous proportions.
Students may say, “How could this
affect us?” Very easily: There are
two college janitors living in this
area, plus at least two employees of
fraternity boarding houses. Should
some kind of an. epidemic break
out, it could. conceivably’ spread fo,

and throughout, the student body.

like wildfire. Think about this!
Think also of the moral difficul-
ties encountered by children, black,
white, yellow, or brown, raised un-
der such conditions of environmen-
tal congestion. Dayidson’s crime
tate, by no means lower than that
of towns of comparable size, would

undoubtedly be influenced directly
or indirectly by the eradication of
these conditions.

Then, the problem of eradica.
tion presents itself. The property
owners cannot be blamed for exist-
ing conditions for two reasons:
1, Several of them (there are four)
cannot afford to improve the quali-
ty of their buildings. 2. Exen if
those. who could, decided to, the
cost would be outlandish. The rent
received is from $6 to $10 per
month, and ‘at that price, even the
most simple repairs -would seem
ponderous. But there IS, perhaps,
a solution.

A ceal-estate agent in town has
stated that a group of men with
from five to ten-thonsand dollars
working capital could build — six
duplex apartments in a better to.
cation with the prospects of a rea-
sonable profit. The men, apparent-
ly, are available; but the capital is
not, at least at the present. This {s
where the Davidson student body
could fit into the picture.

This year the YMCA Christmas
Gift Fund was $5,000. It went all
the way to the Philippine Istands.
Why not dedicate our Christmas.
Fund next year to the financing
of this most worthy project right.
here at home. Rememher, ‘of course;
that this money. would not be given
outright, but lent, lent'as the’ work-
ing capital so sorely needed. As i
was paid back it could be re-dedicat.
fd and sent on to some other wor-
thy project, that way serving ‘ two
causes,

Of course, the whole plan should
be carefully investigated and analyz-
ed, perhaps by a committee of the
YMCA cabinet and local business-
men. If it should prove feasible
to carry out such a project, the
good effects would prove the many
of the axiomatic sayings we hear
about what good Christians we are.
Here we have a challenge, let’s
face it!

Letter from Reader

“A JUSTIFIABLE
SUGGESTION”

Now that the battle for Tourna.
ment slots has abated, I would like
to again protest the unfair method
of selecting the eight teams to vie
for the Southern Conference crown.
Tt is only too apparent that many
of the better clubs of the Confer-
ence are forbidden tournament
berths, while other mediocre ag-
gregations make the Tournament
on the strength of weaker opposi-
tion. Bringing the matter closer to
home, the Davidson Wildcats have
been denied a Tournament berth
on many occasions due to a diffi-
cult schedule, only to watch fat
inferior quintets creep into the se:
lect eight. This season is no excep-
tion, for the Soph-riddled ‘Cats
will not compete in the 1950 Tour-
nament while such fives such as
VPI with a schedule of 10 com-
paratively easy Conference games
will vie. for the Crown.

I do not thake this criticism with.
out a constructive suggestion, for
I feel that there is a workable so-
lution to this problem which has
long hampered the Southern Con-
ference. Why not divide the Con-

ference into three brackets. State,
Duke, Carolina, G. W. and. W&M.
would form the upper bracket. Da-
vidson, South Carolina, Clemson,
Wake Forest, VPI, and W&L
would form the Medium bracket,
and Furman, Citadel, VMI, Rich.
mond, and Maryland would form
the lower bracket. Each team would
play the members of its respective .
brackets twice during the season,
and all other clubs once. Such a
schedule would give the ’Cats a 20
game Conference schedule, where-
as in 1949-50 they engaged their
talents in 18 conference frays.

T feel reasonably certain that such
an arrangement would not only re-
sult in fairer selection of the Tour-
nament select, but ajSo) provide the
fans with cloger,-yidre tightly wag-
ed encountets. Lf is true that such
an arrangement would have many
difficulties, but I hazard a guess
that these could be ironed out with
a minimum amount of effort. I am
sure that everyone concerned yearns
for an improved method of ‘select-
ing these Tournament fives, and
then the Southern Conference King
will feel justified indeed in his claim
to the Conference superiority.

—R.L.M.

College Rags In Brief...

By WATT JEFFRIES

Presbyterian

The Presbyterian College Blue
Stocking this week relates a story
how female bandits swindled
$110.00 out of two P. C. students
last Friday. The two female swind.
tiers, posing as Clinton tailoresses,
made a spotless get-away after
collecting $110.00 in cash. The
fair thieves, one of them was a
vivacious young blond with promi.
hent features, left their victims with
forty dollars worth of suit materia:
and high hopes of future affilia-
tions, says the Blue Stocking. The
swindlers approached a group of
P. C. students who had gathered
outside of Judd dining hall last
Friday, and pretended to be taking

torders for tailor-made suits. Two

students signed up with the false
tailoresses who promised to return
in a few days to measure them up
for size. One of the two who signed
threw an additional twenty dollars
into the kitty to help the women in
moving their business to Clinton
“from down in Alabama.” Police
were notified when the female
felons failed to show up to take
measuréments; however, latest re-
ports from the Clinton Police De-
partment admit no trace of the girls
has been found.

Carolina
The Daily Tar Heel fast Tues.
day announced that October 28,
1950, is destined to become a his-

“

toric day in college football if
everything comes off according to
schedule. At a Southern Confer.
ence meeting in Lynchburg, Va.,
it was. recently discovered that the
University of Virginia has sched-
uled football games with UNC and
West Virginia, both to be played
in Charlottesville on the 28th of
October. Roy Hawley, athletic di-
rector at West Virginia, newly ad-
mitted conference member, called
attention to the mistake at the
Lynchburg meeting when he re-
marked that his team had a con- |
tract with Virginia for the 28th of
October. According to Hawley,
West Va. doesn't have an open date
to which it can shift the contest.
Carolina has an October 21 open-
ing, but Virginia does not. Hawley
sees a double-header as the only
solution.

Michigan State

From Michigan State comes
word. that the college is planning
its most ambitious project—a fly.
ing class-room tour of Europe. The
trip is scheduled to begin on March
18th, when sixty of the nation’s
top educators take off from New
York by chartered plane to study
European political and economic
conditions. The study tour will last
six weeks and include visits to-Ire-
land, England, .France, Switzerland,
Italy, Germany, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, Belgium and Holland.
