SUBSIDIZATION: THE ANS

yy. vt
io BR

Being a member of
Eumanean I have sel-
dom opportunity to en-
ter the Shrine of the
Phi across the way. My
entrance to Eu Hall is
embarrassingly rare
enough. But Tuesday
fF night the Phi confines

afforded me one of my
most enjoyable even-
ings on Davidson cam-
pus and also one of my
warmest, despite the
fact that the host had
failed to provide ade-
quate heat.

By BILL WHITE The occassion

the second of the YMCA forums for the year, this being upon
that very present verbal football, ‘‘The Davidson College Ath-
letie Policy.’’ Every student—and faculty member—who has
any feeling either way on the matter should have been there.
There ‘was a disappointing small gathering, but many of them
had their say in the matter.

They ran the show like this. Professor Tyson was the mod-
erator. Athletie Director Scott led off with the picture of Da-
vidson’s past and present stand in athletic policy and gave
some of the practices prevalent in other parts of the country.
Professor Fulcher followed with about ten minutes of reason
as to why our policy should be a vigorous one toward subsidi-
zation, and Dr. Gallent closed the formal talk avith ten minutes
of reason as to why subsidization had no place in college ath-
letics.

Then followed a panel discussion during which Tom Mann
spoke as a student in favor of Dr. Gallent’s views, and T put on
a tie to sit beside Professor Fulcher for fifteen minutes. After
that, the discussion was thrown open to the floor for fifteen
minutes, and the questions flew.

For those who averen‘t there, we are reprodueing the main
points stressed by Professor Fulcher and Dr. Gallent. They are
merely the skeletons of argument (if that is not too harsh a
word to use) that was drummed out in the course of the evening.
You may think of more and better reasons pro and con.

Professor Fulcher
1. Iam in favor of our present plan of subsidization to
athletes and even an extension, provided: (a) that such funds
come from sources other than student fees and the income
from our invested endowment; (b) that an athlete who receives
aid or a scholarship must be making satisfactory progress toward
graduation ; and (c) that our curriculum be not changed because

of subsidization. ;
2. IL believe in a swell rounded college. J feel that Davidson

should award aids or scholarships to men who show prowess in
general scholarship, music, arts, writing, religious teachings,
science, and athletics. Naturally, aids are to be given only to
those making satisfactory progress toward graduation.

3. We are now living in an age of awards or compensa-
tions. Church choirs and church treasurers now are paid for
services. Except for those of wealth, one expects to be paid for
his labor or accomplishments, and this philosophy—whether we
like it or not—has reached into college life. Every institution

with intercollegiate activities eves the gate receipts. Is it not
natural that those who furnish entertainment where a charge

is made should. receive some compensation. Glory is wonderful.
but in the present day of reality, mere glory or fun is no longer
sufficient.

4. Subsidizaton of athletes is making it possible for many
young men to attend college and to have many of the advantages

of life that they would not have otherwise. I believe that most

was

of the money that has come to the college this vear through the’

Wildcat Club to help in athletics would not have come other-
wise, and I feel that this money is helping worthy athletes here.
Wildcat Club members have given of their own volition. Ath-
letic ties are the closest binds of alumni and student body. In
no way is their gift toward a more creditable team hindering
the educational purpose of this college.

5. The spirit of many institutions, for a good part, is built
around the intercollegiate accomplishments of the institution.
1t promotes a cohesiveness of spirit through the credit it reflects
on the school. This is exemplified in the songs and mottoes.
Where else has the Wildcat Spirit of old come? Few alumni
remember their alma mater only for her academic side.

6. Our athletic scholastic standard is higher than the
average of boys not partaking in athletics. Seldom a year passes
‘without one or more on the Phi Beta Kappa roster.

1. In my judgment, those who oppose our present plan of
subsidization are afraid that the college from it’s student
fee income or invested endowment income would have to bear
the burden of finances.

8. For the first time in the history of the college we have
an organization that in an orderly manner is helping our inter-
collegiate athletic program. Because some colleges have allowed
athletics to get out of hand and run into the red is no indication
such will be the case at Davidson. The very pywpose of the Wild-
eat Club vows to hold the program well in hand. They would
help only boys who maintain the strictly upheld scholastic stand-
ards and meet the requirements for which every other student
is responsible. There is no fear that Davidson is losing her head
and allowing any part of the college to become disproportionate.

9. I feel that our athletic staff is competent and if given
an opportunity will bring to Davidson the position in the inter-

collegiate world that is rightfully hers.
10. In subsidization, we are in good company. The best in-
stitutions in our state are doing it and so at Princeton and Yale,

and even Harvard now, in the East. I feel that a part of our
American education is tied up in intercollegiaté sports—interest
and participation—and that Davidson would take her rightful
position among the other leading colleges of this area.
1. The basis of my presentation is that anything intro-
duced into a college must be examined in the light of the pur-
(Continued On Page Five)

PAGE FOUR

Wildcat Soorts

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1950

Cagers Open Northern Swing

Loyola Among Clubs Encountered|ca Swimmers Clash

On Trip Through Md, Penn, Ky.

An extended Christmas tour opens, in effect, tonight for
Davidson’s Wildeats when they meet Richmond’s Spiders in
the Virginia capital. The Richmond, meeting ‘will be the third
Southern Conference test in a row for Coach Boyd Baird’s
hoopsters, and the first in which they might find themselves

rated an even chance or better to
walk away the victor.

Tomorrow night, however, more
real trouble is on the way up for
the Cats when they travel over to
Williamsburg for their ' fourth] g
straight loop scrap with William ]#&
and Mary's surprising Indians. They | #
hustle home Sunday for two brief |]
days of classes and then head North
again for three pre-Christmas en- |?
gagements.

Wednesday the Wildcats
buck Quantico’s always-pre-
pared.for-college - competition
Marines. Thursday they run
into one of the nation’s tough-
est outfits when they hit Loy.
ola in Baltimore, and Saturday
tight the Davidsonians move
over to Beaver Falls (near
Pittsburg) Pa., for a round with
Geneva College. That ends the
first half of the northern trip,
with the boys traveling home
with hopes of making it by
Christmas Eve night.

Five days after Christmas the
Cats open shop again, this time in
Pikesville, Ky. Six of the crew—
Fred Hengeveld, Mac Mcl.ean,
Bob Turk, Bill Proctor, Al Fitz-

gerald, and Bob Graham — will| a
leave from Davidson to meet Tom | fm
Haller, Don Lazenby, Tom Cole-|%
man, Bill Rrooks in the Kaintuck , %
for the contest there with Morehead | §
to North{:
Carolina to meet McCrary's Eagles ,:
in Asheboro the second day . of }§
the New Year. After this one, the /f

College. They return

itinerary reads University of South | ¢.%/
Carolina in Columbia on, January | 7%

6 and the Citadel at Charleston on |: ;

January 9.

All of which leads to the next
home show by the Wildcats,
January 9 with N. C. State’s
Wolfpack. From there on out
with the exception of a
January 15 date with Mc.
Crary’s, it is nothing but con-
ference competition the rest of
the route.

This early winter swing should
strengthen the Cats considerably—
in ball playing ability and general
confidence. It should be a good
toughening up period for the rough
loop grind ahead, and that is ex-
actly as Baird planned it.

Dropping the North Carolina tilt
by a close three-point margin hurt.
Baird stated before the season that
the Cats would have to take the

close ones to make the tournament.
That was a close one, but the Tar
Heels possessed the power to pro-
tect. a lead. This weekend, Rich.
mond will be tough and William
and Mary very tough. By taking
both of them, Davidson can send
herself off to intersectional war
with a 2-2 home record and the
consolation of better things ahead.

Richmond last year played its
finest ball of the season to sink

With Duke's Devils
Tonight At Durham

By MOODY SMITH
Davidson College’s swimming
team, tutored by Coach Dick Red.
ding, plunges into Southern Con-
ference competition for the second

‘|time in the school’s rather brief
_| aquatic history when it faces Duke

University's strong Blue Devil

‘}natators tonight in the Durham

pool.

The Red and Black lost a tough
40-35 decision to the Citadel last
Friday in the first intercollegiate
swimming meet in which a David.
son splash squad has ever partici-
pated. Though naturally inexper-
ienced, the Wildcat fish gave a good
account of themselves, and gave due
warning to the rest of the confer-
ence not to expect a pushover with
Davidson.

Led by Captain Bil! Ray and
veterans Ken Taylor and Hugk
Evans in the sprints, the Davidson-
ians also present an adept array of

(Continued On Page Five)

Ex-Captain Cobb

Joins NYAC Team

Whit Cobb, captain of last year’s
basketballing Wildcats, is currently
continuing his fine game with the
New York Athletic Club team in
the Gotham City.

The squad had reportedly been
set at 12 men until Whit reported
for work, then they made room for
a 13th man. Hardly unlucky will
the Durham hative prove himself
either. At Davidson he was the
highest scoring guard in the South.
ern Conference and recognized as
a defensive ace without a rival.
Besides his presidency of the stu-
dent body, Whit was co-holder of

‘| the Southern Conference doubles

tennis championship with Bo Rod.
dey, winner of the Tommy Peters

-] Sportsmanship Trophy, and South.

ern Conference Athlete of the Year
for 1950—lettering in basketball.

_[ tennis, and track.

P
2

5
a

the Cats. The Spiders have vir-
tually the same outfit returning

DON LAZENBY

and gave Carolina a fit before bow- } | '
ing last week. If Davidson takes |}

tonight’s it will not be without a
fight.

Coach Boyd Baird is expected
to start Al Fitzgerald at center, re-
placing Bill Proctor, as a result
of Fitzgerald's second half perfor-
mance against North Carolina. Reg-
ulars Tommy Haller
Brooks will open at forward with
Fred Hengeveld and Mac McLean
getting the usual opening bid at
guard,

>

Ca SE 3 nes SSE

221 South Tryon Street

THACKER’S, INC.
Private Dining Rooms

for
Parties and Banquets

“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
Phone 25490

Ao

x
i
Ae
i
*
i
*

Charlotte, N. CG

ee |

and Bill]

Cobb is taking an insurance course
in New York.

Against xichmona, Wm. & Mary

Wildcat of The Week

ao

BILL (BONES) BROOKS

r

Bill (Bones) Brooks captures our spotlight this week for
‘Athlete’? honors by continuing and even bettering his last
year’s cage record. So far this season, Brooks has averaged in
the two Southern Conference games, 15 points per game—mak-
ing 15 against State, and again tallying 15 markers against
Carolina. Last year ‘‘Bullet’’ Bill averaged 11.1 points per game

and reached the highest mark of
Wildcat 1949-50 basketeers in scor-
ing 30 points against Hanes Hos.
iery. In that game he also sank 8

‘out of 10 free throws to receive

high honors in that field for the
year. ; .
Brooks was imported three years
ago from the rich basketball fields
of Kaintuck. He teamed with his
“cousin” Tom Coleman in his fresh-
man year to burn up the backboards
and come out with a 16-2 win rec.
ord. Since then he has been as hot
as ever, making the starting five

in his sophombore year. That was-

last year and he averaged 11.1
points against Southern Confer.
erence competition.

Up until this year, Brooks was

joy be yours
this Yule.

the “tall, skinny, one” to his hoop.
mates. Now he shares this dubious
honor with Bill Proctor and Joe °
Dudley and can no longer be ribbed
for that lack of flesh anymore.
Bill is 6 feet 2 inches tall and car-
ries 168 pounds on his lanky frame
which even sounds high at that to
the casual observer. His rangy arms
and legs and jutting joints some.
times make it hard for the oppon.
ents as he is always everywhere on
the floor, but especially in the
scrambles. He usually comes out
with the ball, too.

Brooks possesses one of the dead-
liest eyes in the business and he
is always a nemesis to the enemy

(Continued On Page Five)

WILSON-WRIGHT’S

MAIN STREET

DAVIDSON, N. C.
