FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1960

PAGE Six ; THE DAVIDSONIAN Pr arene iomaatecneeaDd Monta

2. Lacks intellectual stimulus;

3. Over-emphasizes exams in de-
termination of final grades;

4. Gives too little attention to
making clear the degree of detail
wanted in the answer;

5. Tests only the acquisition of
knowledge, not the organization or
application of it;

6. Does not discriminate between
the degrees of attainment of various
students;

7. Lends itself to cheating;

8. Is constructed for easy grad-
ing;

9. Has uneven grading.

The committce recommended
that more thought and time be de-
voted to preparing examinations,
that grading be more adequate, and
that the junior staff members be
trained in the art of preparing and
evaluating examinations, The com-
mittee also indicated that it “thor-
oughly disapproves” of “grading on
the curve,” with a fixed proportion
of a class receiving A's, another
fixed proportion B's, and so on. It
reported that the use of this pro-
cedure “is infrequent’ here.
trolled.

CAT TALES...

(Continued From Page Four)
you have perfectty valid reasons
for selecting the team as it was, and
if for no other reason than to sat-
isfy my own curiosity, I'd appre-
ciate your writing me about them.

In closing, let me take this op-
portunity to thank you for all of
the publicity your sport’s section
gives to Davidson athletics. We all
appreciate your excellent coverage
of sporting events here at David-
son, for win or lose, you always
give us a good write-up.

Sincerely,
GORDON SCOTT, JR.
Sports Editor

The Davidsonian,

LIBRARY FEATURING...
(Conatinzed From Page Three)
ent, told in terms of painting,
sculpture and architecture and its
minor arts and crafts. There are
four hundred and seventeen illus.
trations and over five hundred pages
of intelligent text, in which thou-
sands of names and thousands of
facts have been brilliantly inte-
grated into a long and swinging
story that can be read for pleasure

as well as ‘for information,

“Beneath So Kind A Sky” by
Carl Julien and Chapman. Milling
is an interpretation in word and in
picture of the scenic and architec
tural beauty of South Carolina: It
contains ninety-two magnificent
photographs and represents every
section of the state. It is a book of
live oak and rhodedendron, of
swamps and mountains and streams,
of Anglican grace, and Calvinist
simplitity, all of which are South
Carolina,

In the field of music the Library
has added an excellent study of the
history of music throughout the
world. “Music of The World” by
Kurt Pahlen, is an up-to-the-minute
account of music, musicians and
composers by one of the world’s
foremost musicologists. The. four
hundred illustrations which are in-
cluded contain many sketches and
contemporary prints never before
printed. Published by the. Crown
Publishers, it was translated from
the German by James Galston.

WISCONSIN STUDENTS...
(Continued From Page Three)
tory, and “with rare’ exception,”
the small classes that are being con-

ducted are fully justified.

‘Nine of the most common faults
in the University’s examination pro-
gram were listed by the committce
as follows:

1. Gives little or an erroneous
idea: of the purpose of the course;

TESTS SCHEDULED... ##§ | SCABBARD AlfD BLADE...
(Continued From Page One) (Continzed From Page One)
mand. He reports that the real need | Council and of the business staff uf

of the students for a program of | Quips and Cranks.

this sort is well pointed out by the

many students who approach him A Amos Towel on folk

and other faculty members and Vi mos “He senior fom Nortos,

Dean Bailey for help and the high Gama. ¢ 18 a member ° f Phi

degree of interest being shown in amma Delta, social fraternity and

these tests by the students who of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Span-
ish fraternity, He has played foot-

have discussed them with him. ball and basketball and is a mem
Though any date is very tentative, ber of the “D” club.

the tests will probably be given

just before or after Spring Vaca- Edward Exver Denison :
tion. Instead of being spread out] Ed is a senior from Asheville. He
over many days as was the case last/ is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha,
year, they will be concentrated for | social fraternity and of The Inter-
convenience in two days with about] national Relations Club. He also
fifteen hours of tests and question-| plays with The Davidson College
naires. Band.

As an added help to students in it
choosing their work, vocational Benjamin Mason Ha: ton
Ben is a senior who hails from

idance information worth over
en Fort Benning, Ga. He is a member

ene hundred dollars has been f Si " . .
bought and will be placed in a spe-| Of Sigma Chi, social fraternity.
John Ebner Hazard

cial room in the library — one of

the rooms of the first mezzanine, in Jack is a member of the senior
the rear. There is a large amount} class from Jacksonville, Florida. He
of concrete practical help in this] is a member of Kappa Alpha, social
material, and students are urged by | fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary
Prof. Oswalt to take full advant-| literary fraternity, Philanthropic
age of this excellent opportunity. | Literary Society and he is an asso-

Next week the nature of the tests] ciate editor of The Davidsonian.

themselves, what they try to find
and what they hope to do with the] Christopher Kennedy Hood
Chris is from Charlotte and a

results will be discussed, as well

as the course that should be follow- | member of the senior class. At Da-

ed in choosing a career. vidson he is a member of the Stu.
dent Dance Committee, a co-man-

ager of the Student Store, works

with the. Scripts and Pranks and he

is a distinguished military student.

———"

SPANISH FRATERNITY...
(Continued From Page One)
Goodman, R, M. Lilly, H, D. Mid.

dleton, E. F. Montgomery and Pau! Earl Best Hive
Young. Earl is a. senior’ and a member of

"The Omega Chapter of Sigma] the Phi Gamma Delta, social fra-
Delta Pi was installed at David-| ternity. He is a member of the Rifle
son College in 1931. Students are| Team and he has participated in
elected for interest in Spanish liter- | yarsity baseball, Warsaw, N. C., is
ature and language and for profi-] his home.
ciency in spoken and written Span-

Junius Brutus Stroud

ish.

J. B. is a junior from Faison, N.
C.- He is a member of, Beta Theta
Pi, social fraternity and of Sigma
Pi Sigma, honorary physics fra-
ternity, During °47-°48 he played
junior varsity football.

TOWN MEETING...

(Continued From Page One)
down of the fire-engine could de.
stroy the entire business section in
a short time if properly ignited.”
A local merchant commented that Wilber Branch King
fire-insurance rates were inuch Bill is a junior from Atlanta, Ga.
higher ag a consequence of these} He is a member of Phi Delta Theta,
unsafe dwellings. social fraternity, and of the Swim-

A plan was then presented by F.| ming Team. Also he serves on the
W. Fredrickson, local real estate] business staff of both The David-
man, which provided for the forma- | sonian and Scripts and Pranks.

tion of a local holding company to —.
issue stock on a new housing pro-| FORMER DAVIDSONIANS...
ject. Repairs could be made on the} (Continued From Page Three)
houses as they stand through loans, | pointed out.

but in his opinion the former plan] Medical science knows exactly
was the most practical. Mr, Fred-] what causes syphilitic heart dis-
rickson stated that Federal Housing | ease, Dr. Marvin said, and research-
Aid could. be obtained, Yet to call ers are beginning to learn about the
in this organization would neces-| causes of congenital diseases of the
sitate higher rents than the owners! heart. He added that that is the
would be able to pay. The sugges-| extent of knowledge of the causes
tion meeting no opposition, the fol-| of heart disease.

lowing men were sfamed to form! “We do not know what causes
this company and proceed to plan! sheumatic fever, or high blood pres-
for the new housing: F. W. Fred-| sure, or the hardening of the arter-
rickson, J. F. Pinkney, Thomas Sad-] ies that kills people in the prime of
ler, J, V. Lore, William Withers, | their lives,” Dr. ra thay ate

‘

and J. F. Hartness. “And until we learn these causes,

The chief problem facing the com-| we are largely powerless to prevent
‘mittee will be that of procuring | these three kinds of heart disease,
suitable land in this vicinity. No! which together make up about 90
further business or discussion aris- percent of the total.” i
ing, the meeting was dismissed. Dr. Marvin expressed his belie

that the causes of these types of
OMICRON DELTA ,..« heart disease will be discovered. +
(Continued From Page One) “It would be foolish and wnfor-
the following men; President Cun-| givable to make any predictions,”
ningham; Professors’ Mebane and|he stated, “but great strides have
Davidson; and Mr, Jackson, the] been made in recent years. Hun-
college treasurer, dreds of highly trained and devoted
After the subject of the gym had| scientists are working constantly,
been marked off the list of the meet- | and our detailed knowledge of these
ing’s purposes, the circle’s business | three diseases is increasing rapidly.
moved on. A scholarship cup to be] It is quite possible that the final
awarded to the fraternity whose | discoveries will not be the achieve.
members achieve the highest scho | ment of any one or two investiga-
lastic a verage was proposed as an tors, but rather the combined re-
incentive to the raising of scholas- ‘ “oe
tic interest among Davidson frater-| Sult of the contributions uf many
nities, It was decided that this cup| workers in the same field.
will be presented at the earliest con-| “The progress already made is

venience. highly encouraging and I feel sure

Curtis Harper was appointed to

secure a guest speaker for ODK
Tap Day exercises this spring.
Finally, the remainder of the

meeting was used to vote whether
another chapter of Omicron Delta

that even brighter days lie ahead,”
Dr.- Marvin asserted,

EMBRYO TANKERS...
(Continued From Page Five)
180-yard batkstroke 1:48:4: (1)

Kappa should be organized at

Bradley Polytechnic Martin (NCS), (2) Long (D), (3)

Institutes! Goode (NCS) (4) Knight (D).

Peoria, It. 200-yard breaststroke 2:51.4:
Members of Davidson’s Delta] (1) Cornelson (D), (2) Lewold

Circle are: Bill Bird, Bo Roddev,| (NCS), (3) Carlson (NCS), (4)

. : : Cunningham (D).
Whit Cobb, Bill Alexander, Liston 440 yard free style 6:26.4: (1)

Mills, Jake Wade, Doug Rice, Bob Holmes (NCS) (2) Cole (D),
Hollister, Bob Bumbarger, John! (3) Jackson (NCS) (4) Gilchrist
Lyles, Curtis Harper, Dr. Schenk,] (D).

Coach Whittle, Dr. McGavock, and pa yard) Te syle wey +086:

fi Pinkney. vidson ( aylor, Evans, Mirec,
Professor Pinkney Ray. State (2) Morris, Goode, Wii-
son, Martin.

—Read Our Ads—

VISIT THE
Charlotte Waffle Shop

‘“‘AOROSS FROM THE BUMING CORNER”
ON WEST TRADE STREET

SADDAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAASAAAAAAAAAAALAAAALAAA

(Copyright 1950, Lecoery & Myre Tosacco Co

Theyre MULDER Theyre TOPS/ =

sition, which leaves fiot much space
for our own decisions. It forces us
to answer with power only and thus
drives us necessarily towards a new
war, which to avoid is understood to
be our main goal.

—Read Our Ads—

still would be above man. And this
may be said without doubt to be
a falsification of human nature, be-
cause -human nature needs such a
supernatural being, the place of
which not possibly can be filled by
man.

Having found this it would be
easy to say that the new sociéty
necessarily had to relate more to
our form of society than to the
communistic one, because our set-
up is providing a large place for ||
religion, This assumption, however,
would be very dangerous, because

GREEK TOURNAMENT ...
(Continued From Page Five)
Campus Club 27; SPE’s 15
Orchids to the Campus Club!
They finally came through with a
27-15 victory over the SPE's. This
marked the first victory of the year
for the Campus Club and they well
deserved this hard earned victory.
Rinson Jed them with 7, while
Campbell had 5 and Whitfield had
4. All the SPE’s could manage was
Miller with 6, the other few points
on both sides were divided. A far.
ing sun hindered both teams acces-

GRADE “A” MILK

sory. it is debatable whether or not our PASTEURIZED
’ religion, or better the place of the
; Delts 33; Phi 29 _| individual, is providing for this. It Daily Delivery
Phi Delts 33; Phi Gams PHONE 25

is necessary for us to understand,
that nothing can be won without
making any effort to win it. And
if our religion really should be one
of the decisive factors in the future
development of our society, also
the effort that has to be made, must
be very large, thus to justify the
gain, It therefcze should be one of
our main aims to strengthen our
religious position within our socie-
ty, even if we should be forced to
sacrifice part of our overemphasised
individualism.

But even doing that would not be

enough. The communistic society
through its aggressive character
has pushed us into a defensive po-

A fighting Phi Delt team pulled
somewhat of a upset over the’ Phi
Gams by 33-29, Auburn Lambetlr led
the Phi Delts with 11 while Grady
Spires had 10. Jim Cobb added 6
other markers for the Phi Delts.
The Phi Gams led by big Chris
Whiteman with H] while Christo-
pher and Camp had 7. It was a
hard fought game with the game
largely depending much on_ re-
bounds which the Phi Delts con-

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

—Read Our Ads—

DAVIDSON

WEEK OF MAROH 6-11

FREEDOM AND...
(Continued From Page Two)
he blames the Catholic hierarchy
non-Catholics. The book has en-
joyed wide circulation and numer.
ous printings in the last few

months.

With the above in mind the CPU
chose this topic for its round table
discussion last week. A special guest
for the evening. was Father Weid-
inger, Catholic parish priest for
Chapel Hill.

BIEKO...

(Continued From Page Two)
and wrong, Thus, however they
are taking the place of a superna-
tural being, that we believe to be
God, and that, even if it would not
be God as known, to a Christian,

MON. -TUR,.

“RED LIGHT’’
George Raft - Virginia Mayo

WHEREVER YOU GO!
' WED..THURS.

“DAKOTA LIL”’
George Montgomery - Rod
Cameron . Marie Windsor

Op PRD
poe a

* FRI-SAT.
‘EAST SIDE WEST SIDE”’
James Mason - Ava Gardner
Barbara Stanwyck - Van Heflin

Remember this seal — it’s
your assurance of the best!

WILLIAM LUNDIGAN

Famous Syracuse Alemuus, says:

“You know, thousands of words are being
written every day. When it comes to
Chesterfields, the words that I like best
are short and simple. ..they’re MILDER

and THEY SATISFY.”
STARRING IN

+ “OH, DOCTOR”
A 20th CENTURY-FOX
PRODUCTION

FINE ARTS BUILDING

» SYRACUSE UNIV.

OHESTERFIELD

[i AMERICAS COLLIOES
WITH THE TOP MEN [MN SPORTS

WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS National Survey

