PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Howe Green

- THE —
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR Freshman Farce
By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

ee

EDITOR IN CHIEF --..------------------------- GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER JOHN LOFTIN

rr
EDITORIAL STAFF

Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

going to stop, Joe? If I don’t get
off quick, it’ll be too late.”
This was

eecceeenwaceserccaseooooes=s

Associate Editors ...--------- . , : . friend Joe Stoop spent an after-
Senior Editors ...--- ~--- Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bil A noon at the Southern States Fair
Features Editor ..-.--.----------------- ---en noon nnn nn . in Charlotte.

Managing Editors ..-.------ Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams, “I told you you shouldn't have

George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard eaten five of those mile-long hot
dogs,” retorted Joe. “Four’s plen-
ty.”

His friend moaned, “Now you
tell me. Cut out the gab and get
me offa this thing.”

“But, Howe, I'm having fun.

Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin
Columnist—John Hobart

Sports Editor—Bill White
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
City Editor—Nat Daniel

BUSINESS STAFF

. . It’s perfectly harmless. This is
Assistant Business Manager -------------------—-------"- Alex Goley q :

Advertising Manager ------.------------------- Manley McWilliams just an airplane thet oes over and
Circulation Manager —---------------------=----------- Ansley Moses “O-o-h, stop, Joe, I'm. warning
Collections Manager ----.-.------------------------=-207 Jack Turner} you!”

Subscriptions Manager ~----------------------------------"" Bill Hart] But Joe heartlessly twisted the

wheel, turning the plane complete-
iy upside down once again.

Suddenly there was a@ loud crash,
and Howe yelped: “Harmless, you
say! I'll swear this thing dropped|
a foot then. It’s about to break
off. HEY’ MISTER! Stop this
thing! Lemme off! Hey, Mister,
stop!”

But the operator only waved back
and stepped up the speed of the
plane another notch, deciding to
give those two boys in the red
caps a ride they would really en.
joy.

Finally, after three or four more
minutes of agony that seemed like
hours, Howe staggered off, his face
white and his hands clutched to his
still-twirling stomach.

But Joe's eyes were gleaming as
he stepped out, for directly across
from him was a bold sign: “BABY
DUMPLING,” and a barker was
broadcasting the charms which no
red-blooded American man could
dare to miss.

“Come on, let’s go, Howe!” ex-
claimed Joe, grabbing his friends
arm and heading for the tent.

“Heck; no, let’s go home! I'm
sick.” .

“Go home? At a time like this?
This is the opportunity of a life-
time.” And with that he stepped
up and bought a ticket and disap-
peared inside.

A burst of boisterous masculine
laughter from the tent was sudden-
ly more than our hero could re.
sist, however, and a moment later
he blushingly joined his pal, claim-
ing that he felt better and decided
to come anyway.

The show was just getting under-
way. In the center of a raised
platform “danced” a gorgeous
“Baby Dumpling!”

Eagerly the innocent Davidson
Freshmen crowded to the edge of
the platform, thirsty for know.
ledge. Picture if you can this sexy
Stripper as she gradually displayed
her wares to the straining crowd.
As garment after garment fell limp
to the floor revealing to its best
advantage an ever-grdéwing area
of the female form divine, the
tempo and movements of her
dance became faster and bolder.
And all pain was forgotten by
Howe. -

When the last bounce was over,
Howe looked at ‘Joe with a grin,
and said, “How about another hot-
dog?”

A High Standard

With the passing of each dance week-end, iwe have become
more and more aware of the tremendous amount of planning,
thinking and hard work that are necessary to make a success-

ful college dance set such as the one during Homecoming, just
past. To a majority of the students and practically all of the

dates, about the only part of the picture they are able to grasp
is the finish product—the gaily decorated gymnasium, a famous

band on the stand ... . little thought is given to what forces
made this picture possible; and so thig week we would doff our

hats to President Bill Klein and his Pan Hellenic Council for
a job extraordinarily well done.

To the ‘‘oldtimers’’ on the campus the dance set last ;week-
end was the best that has been held in recent years, certainly
since the war; and of course Klein and his crew must receive
a lion’s share of credit for its success. In the first place, the

dances were centainly a suceess from a financial standpoint ; the
decorations in the gym were better than ever; and finally, the

music of Charlie Spivak and his orchestra far exceeded the
expectations of even the most optimistic.

The Pan Hellenic Council has, in a sense, put itself on the
spot by promoting such a successful dance week-end for their
first effort this year. It avill be quite a task if they can equal
or surpass this standard in future dances ; but after considering
for a moment we would be inclined to believe that Davidson
students can look for first-rate dances as long as the present
Pan Hellenic Council has anything to do with it.

Our Antiquated Cut System

During the last year at Davidson, there has been ample
criticism of certain traditional college methods without much

action in any specific cases. We should like to apply some of
this criticism to one specifie case with the hope that a more

reasonable and satisfactory policy may result. We propose a
complete revision of the existing absence regulations.

In allotting the same number of cuts to every student in a
particular class, Davidson assumes that each man has an equal
grasp of the subject and an equal capacity for study on his
own initiative. Certainly it is reasonable to assume that the
man who has a thorough command of the material in a particular
course, will be better prepared to acquire for himself those
points ;which have been covered in class than one who is strug:
gling to keep above the failure line. Again, it is reasonable to
suppose that the student who keeps his average high has the

ability to organize his work for himself when given some free-
dom to exercise self-guidance.

Because we believe that students who are able to do high
quality work should be given every opportunity to develop
their ability for independent study, we recommend a cut sys-
tem based on the student's scholastic average. To outline such
a system hurriedly, students whose averages fall belaw a C
might be forbidden to cut at all, those in the C and B brackets
might receive 3 and 6 cuts per class, respectively, while upper-
classmen with averages of B+ or better might be removed
entirely from the restrictions of absence regulations. Plans of
this type are in operation at many of our outstanding colleges
and have proved highly successful as a dual stimulus to high
academic achievement.

To The Editors:

1 was approached Tuesday night
by the “Poll-Cat” with several
questions concerning the recent
weekend. One in particular seemed
to be the main point of the “Poll”.
This was “Is $6.50 too much to
pay for a band like Spivak’s?” I
answered “No,” because I sincerely
believe that a band like Spivak’s is
worth the price. . .But such a price
is much too much for an inferior
band that provides only a syrupy
sweet ‘noise’ with little actual danc-
ing or listening value. I refer by
this to the sad aggregations dumped
on this campus last year, Blue Bar-
ron, Tony Pastor (a great improve-
ment over Blue Barron), and Billy
Knauff. I want to have name bands
here as much as the next guy, but

The Davidson Student Body can become an effective force
in the shaping of college policy if you will accept the challenge
to action. Are you satisfied with our present cut system? If
you are, the Editor’s Mailbox offers you the opportunity to
express your support for the plan which is now in foree and
your objections to the scholastic average system. But if you are
not satisfied, we urge you to express through the Davidsonian
and your campus organizations the changes jwhich you desire
in the college absence regulations.—J.J!M.

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
1. To abolish the double.cut system.

2. To change the existing system of giving cute. I can see no gain in. paying as
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for all seniors | much for some mediocre, corny,
regardless of their age. ‘mickey’ orchestra just because it

4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and [has a “name”, as for a good name
the college at large. band. A more intelligent selection

5. To change the system of student body elections. can surely be made from the bands
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and speak- ; available for our big functions, and
ers. this year seems to be. looking up.

7. To give praise where praise is due. May I humbly submit at feast a
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation. | solution to the problem of too much
9. To advocate Sunday night visitations to faculty homes. money for the big dances? There
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student | is on the campus heré enough ex-

body. perienced and qualified material to

“0.0-O-h! Isn't this thing ever

the predicament in
which Howe Green found himself
three weeks ago when he and his

THE DAVIDSONIAN

10 OO DODD
Bes BG BG

&
7 Oe“ scnoLAR”

Soe

Boe QD QORG

OO OOOO

“One Finger Melody” is one of
the nicest new tunes of the day,
and at present is best done by
Frank Sinatra. Personally, I be-
lieve Mindy Carson could do a
better job of it, as the tune and ly-
rics run along the same line as
“Rainy Day Refrain,” the new tune
she does so wonderfully. 1 don’t
have a new release sheet from
RCA, but I'll check on it and let
you know what other arrangements
of “One Finger Melody” to. ex-
pect on the market soon. The tune
is definitely pleasant enough stuff
and the lyrics when done by the
right person could make the song
a sure fire hit.

The ever popular Paul Weson
whose “Nevertheless” is becoming
more popular every day has record.
ed a haunting new tune labeled
“So Long Sally.” While not up to
the standards of “Nevertheless,”
it still has the makings of an ex-
tremely popular discing and should
go places. This also holds true for
the other side, an old standard
number with a refreshing new ar-
rangement, called “These Foolish
Things.”

Any of you who saw the flick
“Samson and Delilah” will undoubt.
ably remember the theme, “Song
Of Delilah,” which was played all
during the show. Mitch Miller has
shaped the thing into popular etch-
ing with rather good results. The
shellacing features Mitch on the
oboe and Burt Taylor coming forth
with some fresh new vocal sounds
in front of a lot of choral ooing and
ahing. On the flip side, “Autumn
Leaves,” Mitch switches to his Eng.
lish Horn and has an all male
choir warbling this Johnny Mer-
cer lyric. It's pretty, but probably
will never amount to very much,

If you're looking for a good two-
sided bet in the platter field give
a listen to Rosemary Clooney’s new
waxing of “Remember Me” backed

.

The Editor’s Mailbox

form a good dance band that would
satisfy all but the experts, since
the music would be in the styles
of several different “name” bands,
of necessity for a group of this
type. I have personally worked
with student groups of this type at
Florida State University, and know
of several others at other schools,
none of which have failed to please
the dancers from standpoints of
listening, dancing and-or money.
Here is an efficient method of stor.
ing up a reserve of dollars to offset
the big band prices; have this stu-
dent band play one dance a year,
charging a nominal fe., and two
fine “name” bands for the other
two dances. This plan has worked
at other schools to the benefit and
joy of all concerned, why not here?
Are you interested in having bet-
ter music for your dances at lower
prices? If you are, why not have
it that way? It can be done!
PHIL DAVIS

aide

Qo

Di

°

V

Qed

O

O

Wax Scratching \

By BOB WHELESS

BB BR BE BE

%
— THE HAT MAKES THE FRESHMAN:

“AGGRESSIVE ~

“sy ave”

Ss

erelere!
reretece!

NO
fexete:

tad t
iwi
by “Where Do I Go From Here.”
On the number one side Rosemary
adds another fine vocal to her col,
lection, this one is a hit country
ballad. It gets a countrified treat-
ment and comes out top quality
wax, On the number two side she
uses her warm ballad style to fine
advantage in her etching of this
pretty new ballad. °

“Dream Awhile” has been given
an extremely smooth treatment by
Richard Hayes and Kitty Kallen.
In the past I had not been too im-
pressed by the team work of these
two, but this new Mercury Re-
cording shows that they will bear
watching in the future. Flip it over
and you'll see “Hall Of Ivey,” the
theme for the Ronald Coleman net-
work radio program. It’s a very me-
lodious college song that may re.
ceive more effective treatment by
one of the better orchestra-chorus
groups.

Vic Damone does a good job on
“Beloved Be Faithful” even though
it's hampered by an over-balanced
ork and chorus throughout the song.
The flip is the standard “Take Me
In Your Arms,” and it appears to
be right up*Vic's alley. He belts
it out in forthright style, in spite
of another poorly balanced etch.
ing.

Eileen Barton, the “I'd a baked a
cake gal,” has cut the first and sc
far only popular rendition of “Baby
Me.” Sooner or later someone may
come up with a decent arrangement
of same, but in my humble opinion
Eileen’s version is a waste of good
wax,

Ww,

€

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1950

GEECH’S/GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

All columnists write about the
chapel programs at one time or
another, so we felt it would be bet-
ter to go ahead and get it over
with at the. first of the year. Per-
haps, if this subject repels the read-
er, he might try reading the col-
umn backwards, if only for the
mental exercise involved. At any
rate there seems to me one or two
points that should be discussed.
We had occasion to talk with a
guest speaker, shortly after he
‘emerged, bloody and bowed from
an address to the student body.

“It’s not as bad as when I was at
Davidson,” he commented. “No one
was reading newspapers, and al.
though nobody laughed at my jokes,
at least nobody hissed.” Rather
negative compliment, we should
say. There is no doubt, surely, in
the mind of the average student
that conduct in chapel is, you'll
excuse the word, lousy. One pro-
fessor has called it “an organized
insult to the Almighty.” What then
is the solution?

That the Davidson student body
can maintain order when it wants
to is evident. Take the Court of
\Control days. The entire student
body is at pin-dropping - perfor-
mance. Why is this so? Because
Court of Control day is something
that interests the student body.
Obviously then, the usual chapel
exercises do not interest the stu-
dents or they would respond with
similar attention.

The solution is then simple.
Either make the chapel programs
interesting to all, or allow those
who are not interested to cut. You
cannot force a man to do or be-
lieve anything. If he wants to
believe, he will, and if he dossn’t

he may sometimes be educated to
want to, but he cagnot be compelled.
The very act of compulsion turns
him against the desired end. No one
is going to become religious through
coercion. Religion, or Christianity,
is an intimate, internal thing, and
part of the individual. But it can-
not be stuffed in, it must get there
by the will of the individual him.
self. Obviously the chapel ser-
vices at Davidson are not educating
the student to a point where of
his own volition ‘he will recognize
the church as important. Then
either change them, or allow those
to leave who are gaining nothing
themselves, but are merely hinder-
ing those who wish to worship.

Non-compulsory chapel may be
a big step, but as someone of con-
siderable importance has said, “I
would rather see a worshipful ser-
vice for twenty-five, than a thou-
sand hyenas at their play.” There
would be several technical difficul-
ties in creating non-compulsory
chapel, but these can be resolved
in a way that we shall mention in
a future column. Besides they are
insignificant (passing on of an-
nouncements, etc.) as compared to
what happens to’ the religious at-
mosphere at Davidson. Right now,
it is a bad apple, and if the core
of the problem isn’t reached soon,
the whole bucket will degenerate.
What was it Alex Pope said about
vice? Something about “__yet seen
too oft, familiar with her face, we
first endure, then pity; then em-
brace.” Well that’s the idea any-
way. A habit has started around
here in regard to chapel. You can
call it a tradition if you want to,
but we call it a cancer. And some-
body better call its blufft

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) General deGaulle has called on France to rearm in light of the

present threat.

2) In the Vietnam fighting, the
evacuated by the French.

key fort of Langston has been

3) Atrocities in Korea were continued; sixty-six more Americans

have been found.

4) In five years since the war, the U. S. has spent forty-twe and a
half billion on foreign aid, according to a joint congressional

committee.

5) Robert C. Goodwin is now director of the new Office of Defense

‘Manpower.

7) Western Germany’s credit allotment for a year’s period has been
exhausted in three and a half months.

8) Fifteen alien communists have been seized for deportation, under

the new Internal Security Act.

9) Consumer prices in the U. S. rose one-half per cent in the montle

ending September 15.

10) Defense Secretary Marshall has ordered that reservists be re-
leased from the armed services.

.

11) In his U. N. anniversary address, President Truman stressed the
necessity of disarmament and international control of atomic

weapons.

12) There is a hint that the cabinet crisis in Israel is nearing an ac-

ceptable solution.

| MUSIC WITH HANSEN

By HENRY HANSEN

a

Though it has not been my cus-
tom to make any response to the
frenetic carping of injured audi-
tors I feel that two letters which
appeared in last week's The Edi.
tor’s Mailbox demand a reply on
my part, not so much because they
have wounded my critical pride, but
because both letters contained state-
ments which either destroyed any
validity the letters might have con-
tained or failed to destroy the
thought of my own article. Since
the purpose of the two articles was
evidently to make my own stand.
point an untenable one; I feel called
upon as a mere gentleman to point
out to my two critics wherein they
failed in doing this not because of
my article’s irreproachable logic
but because of their own contradic-
tory or nonsensical statements.

First to a consideration of Mr.
Bell’s letter. Mr. Bell was kind
enough to point out the rhyme
scheme of “O, Davidson” to me.
I greatly appreciated this. Mr. Bell
was also kind enough to mention
the reason why this scheme is not
apparent in the singing of the
song. This is so, “because the mu-
sic of the song is not written in
this same order.” ‘fo Mr. Bell 1
can only say that his excelfent
analysis of why “sing” and “every.
titing” do not seem to rhyme, though
they actually do, was and is one of
the best reasons for changing “ev-
erything” to “every test.” Regard-
less of any rhyme scheme, especially
one so unconventional as this one,
we can see that to substitute “test”

would provide sense to the ear even
if it did violate the rhyme scheme.
Doing this would be somewhat ana-
logous to the ancient practice of
the Greeks in architecture of curv-
ing long horizontal lines to make
them appear straight to the eye of
the beholder. The substitution of
“test” as the curving of the lines
makes sensory sense. If this offends
the purists or the makers of rhyme
schemes, we can only apologize,
and then proceed to do the sensi-
ble thing. Mr. Bell’s discussion of
Hindu music, while interesting is
hardly applicable to the case. Fur-
ther, to compare the song under
discussion to Gershwin’s music is
something not far short of sacri-
lege. Finally, the changing of
“thing” to “test” does not, as I
Pointed out in the original article,
pose any less high ideal for our
efforts. We fall just as far short
of winning in every test as we do

in winning in everything, the only
difference being that “test,” for rea-
sons now, I believe, sufficiently
well stated both by me and my
cirtic, Mr. Bell, is the better choice.
I would like to thank Mr. Bell for
his help in clarifying my position.

To Mr. Dave Hanslick Hamil-
ton’s effort, I will not devote so
much space partly because it over-
laps, to some extent, Mr. Bell’s
letter and partly because it is de-
serving of less consideration than
was Mr. Bell’s letter. I will men-
tion only one statement. Mr. Ham-
ilton says, “If he were to change
‘thing’ to ‘test’ not only would the
sense and meaning of the verse be
destroyed, but he would be faced
with the absurdity of rhyming ‘test’
with ‘sing’—. . .” The absurdity has
already been sufficiently discussed.
But I would ask of Mr. Hamilton
one question. How does he arrive

(Continued on Page Six)

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS

; Do you feel that $6.50 is too much to pay for a dance
ticket with a good band like Spivak playing?

Yes—18 per cent.

No.—82 per cent

Do you think that the Friday afternoon concert was

worthwhile?
" Yea’
62 pet.

Didn't hear it
41 pet.

No
7 pet.
