Wildcats And Richmona, With 2-5 Marks,
Out To Salvage A AK Win This Afternoon

The athletic set mov-
ing in and out of Ral-
eigh Saturday and
Monday past could
hardly have been mis-
taken for one another.
Nor ean there be any
comparison to the re-
ception they got.

Saturday it was cold
and rainy. The athletes
‘were brawny footbal-
lers from Maryland.
North Carolina, Duke.
Wake Forest, N. C.
State, and Davidson.
Their reception, though
slimmed, was enthusias-
No titles at stake, bat

By BILL WHITE

tic and they were the talk of the day-
football is football.

{Monday all returned to normal in the capital aftersa big

grid week-end, the’ weather cleared up, and the second set moved
in. Short and tall, slim, but few fat boys. Many hardy, but few
husky. Their reception? The official committee handshake, ‘di-
rection to dressing quarters and the clerk of the course, and
the usual host niceties. A few mothers, agr icultural class cut-
ters, and welltwishers looked on. A title at stake? Oh, yes.
Southern Conference, at that. But then, cross-country is eross
‘eountry.

This was the setting for our cross-country team’s. final
chase of the season, against runners from every school in the
loop. It was the end of the road that at the ontset of the season
looked rosy and turned rocky. The harriers turned in’ their
worst postwar record with three wins and four losses, a fourth
in the Big Four theet, and sixth in this big loop show. A sixth
isn’t too bad, you comment? No. not at all. But for these boys
it’s no good. They haven't picked up the defeatest attitude that
has prevailed in some quarters. However, they almost did.

You know the story. Coach Pete Whittle had won some-
thing like 15 and lost only three cross country meets sinee the
war, was looking forward to this being another top year. Brad-

£
ident.

DOUGHTY SIX—Coach Pete Whittle’s abbreviated cross country
squad’s refusal to call it quits when beleagured by injuries and re-
tirals is the topic of this week’s Cat Tales. The six swinging down

ley was forced out, the club dwindled from the regulation eight
to an abbreviated six, and the season hopes tumbled.

But our commendations is simply for finishing the season.
They almost didn’t you know. Or did you? As the boys put it,
‘‘Who’d know the difference if we didn’t finish the year? We
go to our biggest meet, come back, and someone asks where we
went this week-end, or when are you going to the such and
such meet? No one would know it if we just quietly quit.’’

Just as sure as you never miss the ‘water till the well runs
dry, there’d have been some hollering done had the boys thrown
it in. It’s not hard to get down in the dumps in a sport where
few even know what it is all about and the newspapers act as
if it doesn’t even exist. But in the light of the reeords of other
athletic teams, believe it, Davidsonians watch that cross country

.
apd

OVI. aT m——_$—_——

var

the track above are Dick Patterson, Bob Henry, Dick Stockton. Tom
Stockton, Dan McKeithan, and Bill Lee. (Photo by Alan Macey).

record—even if they don’t find out. what’ it was until the fol-
lowing spring when annuals come out.

Curtailed in quantity and quality, the six did admirably
well and most admirably they shook off that idea of disband-
ment. Next fall, Dick Patterson and Dan McKeithan afe the
only two who won't be back and, of course, Blake. But Bill
Shipley, a frosh hot rock who should be some stuff as a runner
before leaving here; Bill Coe, and others are moving into the
varsity ranks. The Cats should bounce back on the top of the
pile again. They'll be particularly hard to lick after having
to bow their heads before the storm of opponents this autumn.
And remember, though it looked like they might break at one
point, they had the deep rvots of game spirit that enabled them
in shake it off and lift their heads erect again.

CAGERS OPEN 26-GAME CARD WITH NCS

7 On Homeboards
Carded February

By JACK EFIRD
The varsity basketball team will
open its second season under the
able coaching of Boyd Baird on

December 4th by opposing N. :
State in Raleigh. :

The Cats are looking forward to

{

1

PAGE FOUR

£
improving their 10-16 record of last
season as all but two members of
last year's squad, are returning this
fall. This year's team will be head.
ed by a fine group of juniors led by
Kentuckian’s Tom Coleman and
Bill Brooks plus the high scoring
senior co-captains, Tom Haller and
Dutch Hengeveld.

The seasoning acquired last year
should greatly improve the play
of the hoopsters who were out for
their first year of varsity competi-
tion. Three members of the squad,
Brooks, Haller, and Hengeveld,
scored over two hunderd points
last year. Brooks led the team with
290 points.

The opening half of the ‘season
will prove a rugged test of the
Wildcats ability, for twelve of first
thirteen games will be played on
foreign courts.

On the other hand, February will
be “home month” for Baird's crew.
They play six games in Davidson
at Johnston Gymnasium, one in.
Charlotte Armory Auditorium, and
only two, Washington and Lee and

ax.

‘Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

tendered him, but that he had
not filed an application for the
position.

The VPI head football coach’s
position was vacated October 15
with the resignation of Bob Mce-
Neish, who in three years had lost
18 games, tied one and won 1.
Twenty-five applications are in for
the post, including several big
names in coaching, according to the
Observer article.

Little, as stated in the story, is
happy at Davidson and would re-
gret leaving, but commented that
the opportunity would be téo great
; to turn down, Many in the student
9 body, when quizzed informally,

; agreed that the present Cat coach
+ would have a’ wealth of material—

i

ee

y }

GOBBLERS GETTING
TOO GREEDY

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1950

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK Davidson Will Be Out One Coach]... W428

lt VPI Issues Offer To Little

News via the Charlotte Observer that Coach Crowell Little
will accept an offer as head football coach at VPI was greeted
with mixed opinion and feeling of regret here Thursday, while
the coaches’ offices remained silently vacated for the week-end.

An article by Observer sports editor Wilton Garrison
quoted Little as saying that he would accept the offer if

rand

‘

Cats In Top Shape

For League Battle
With Tough Spiders

By DICK LILES

The coming weekend presents for
the football aggregation at David-
son College much hope toward a
victory as the season wanes out.
The Wildcats are looking forward
to romping on the erratic Spiders
of Richmond U. when they meet up
there this afternoon. For the first
time since the season began, the
Cats are at near-full strength and
are in good shape. After pulling an
upset and really pulling a great
surprise last week against State,
the gridders are looking forward
to exterminating the “insects” up
Richmond way.

The wonderful defensive show-
ing in the 15-7 defeat at State and
the powerful running of Ham Wade
(who almost duplicated his “big”
brother's feat of last year) and Roy
White, tend to raise the hope and
morale of the boys, coaches, a: a
students toward a Southern Con-
ference victory for the victory.
hungry Cats.

Richmond poses a puzzling prob- '
lem however, for they have played
hot and cold.all season and are hot
after their fast week's defeat of
the Gobblers from VPI. The week
before they lost to N. C. State by
only 7 points and so are by no
means a weak team as might be
expected from their 2-5.0 record,
the same mark Davidson now
boasts. The Cats met VPI before
the season and found them anything
but a pushover, especis'ly the sec-
ond scrimmage.

Also to boost the spirit of Coach
Little is the fact that the doctors
and Trainer Charlie Parker have
ruled that Henry Wilson will fi-
nally be ready for a game for the
first time since he was injured in
the Furman game. His arm has
healed sufficiently and he will be
at his old post of backing up the
line, where Jim Fasul and Jerry
Kiser will be back as of old in ~
spite of the hurts from last -week.
Also on the O. K.'d list are C. LL.
Runyan, Jack Branch, Bill Mc-
Neely, and Lee Talbert: Only
Hoopie Davis will be absent from
his starting post.

With the team tn good shape
and spirits, Auburn in their calling
and tossing, Runyan'’s power avail.
able, and Roy White continuing
his fine play, the Wildcats are
looking forward to a very profit.
able afternoon in Richmond this
afternoon. Even with the greatest
fond hopes. or aspirations, this will
be the only remaining game in
which the record of this year could
be made better than las than last.

«| WRESTLERS LIST
SEVEN MATCHES

When the varsity wrestling team
opens their season with Washing-
ton and Lee, here at Davidson, on
December 18, they will be starting
a series of seven Southern Confer.
ence dual matches. Their eighth
and final match is with a non-.con-
ference team, the University of
Virginia. The final wrestling ac-
tivity will be the Southern Con-
ference meet sometime early in
March, probably about the 6.7-8th.

Coach Charlie Parker will have
four lettermen returning— Johnny

VMI at Lexington, away from
home.

The scheduie:

December 5—N. C. State, Ral-
eigh, N. C.

December 9—Univ. of North Ca-
rolina, Davidson.

December 15—Univ.
mond, Richmond, Va.

December 16—William and Mary,
Williamsburg, Va.

December 20—Quantico Marines,
Quantico, Va.

December 21—Loyola College,
Baltimore, Md.
December 23 —~ Geneva College,
Beaver Falls, Penn. -
December 30—Morchead College,
‘Pikeville, Ky.
January 2—McCrary Eagles, Ashe-
boro, N. C.

January S—Univ. of South Caro-
lina, Columbia, S. C.

January 6—The Citadel, Charles.
ton, S. C.

January 9—N. C. State, David-

(Continued On Page Six)

of Rich.

‘

OE

Om

DAVE PEELER

By DICK ROPER
The brawn of the N. C. State forward wall was puzzled. This
was not supposed to happen, they were thinking. But it was|hardly dry on his contract, should

happening, and with aggravating frequency. Davidson’s Wild-
eats, underdogs by several theoretical touchdowns before the

far more than is now on hand at
Davidson—and possibly higher pay,
and a step up the coaching ladder,
should therefore accept.

Others felt that Little, the ink

remain and see the -outball build.
ing program which he has helped
o well to instigate get on its feet

kickoff, were stopping the Wolfpack’s line plunges before they at Davidson before handing it over

could hardly get started.

Before very ‘ong, however, the-————~

to another. Both factors sogreed,
however, that it would be a heavy

mystery was cleared up for the] defense, Dave was making State’s| loss should the Cobblers call him.

State boys. The man who was main-| forgsidab’e backs live hard. Some-

ly responsible for embz-rassing
Coach Beattie Feathers’ charges was
standing, very cool and collected,
tight across the linc from them,
hulking behind a very large num-
ber “54” Wildcat jerecy. One Da-
vid Roscoe Peeler, Jr., was stand-
ing for no foolishness at his line.
backing position that night.
Flanked by Jimmy Rogers and
George Nichols in the Cats’ $-3.2-1

Working with virtually the same
times he wonld crash into the line material from last year's crew
as the ball was snapped and tear up . : .

a play as it was barely beginning. which won two and lost eight, Lit-
Again, he would play a waiting tle has won two games and lost
game; hitting the ball carrier as| five to date. His club has definitely
that unfortunate individual crossed | sown the guiding hand of a good

the line of scrimmage. Dave was
the main reason last Saturday night skipper at the helm, however, ana

why the Wolfpack got so little Davidson has been a fighting, of-

yardage through the center of a]fensive minded team on its way

determined Cat line. It was almost} up all fall. Only five seniors will
(Continued on Page Six) graduate from the 1950 club.

ur

COACH CROWELL LITTLE

Gonzaga Bulletin — “Mr. and
Mrs.” Rogers Gentlemen Jack are
expecting tho arrival of a barking
bundle of joy on October &. If one
of the expected offsprings is a male,

Gonzaga will again own a thorough.
bred British Bulldog mascot.

-

é
ROY WHITE

“Whizzer” Whites have
been making grid news on
sports pages for years now, and
Davidson has come up with one
deserving of the nickname. The
chunky sophomore carried 14
times and gained 111 yards
against State last Saturday for
what were by far the top of.
fensive honors of the night.
He carries a 6.4 yards rushing
average against Richmond this
afternoon. The Genosea, Iil.,
citizen has two more falls with
the Cats, and he is sure to be.
come one of Wavidson’s top
gridders. By the way, if “Whiz-
zer” grows stale, call him Roy.

“os . .
eA BP ERED ORD OC mn OB EP ELE —- ST |

Kelton, Bob Gay, Bill McNeely,
and Shorty Lafar, who will form
the mainstays of this year’s team.

The schedule is as follows:

December 18—Washington and
Lee, Davidson.

January 13—N. C. State, Raleigh.

February 2—VMI, Lexington.

February 7—University of N. C.,
Chapel Hill.

February 10~—The Citadel, Da-
vidson.

February 15—Duke, Davidson.

February 17—VPI, Blacksburg.

February 22—University of Vir.
ginia, Charlottesville.

Freshman

January 13—N. C. State, Raleigh.

February 7—U. N. C., Chapel
Hill.

February 15—Duke, Davidson.

February 22—University of Va.,
Charlottesville,

(Possibly one more on the Fresh-
man schedule.)

-a
