PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER

EDITOR IN CHIEF ....

BUSINESS MANAGE ey BILL HOUCK
EDITORIAL STAFP

Chief Associate Editor .. - Doug Hix

Chief Associate Editor aoco-n- Lonnie Turnipseed

Chief Associate Editor .........-.. sacacccee Jack Hazard

MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bilt Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling. .
City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

BUSINESS STAPF
Assistant Business Manager ~----..-------------------- Bill Cassels
Advertising Managers Wylie Sinith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Managet....---.------20---—--------------29- ===
Asst, Circulation Managers —...-.... Ansiecy Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager . - John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager .....-..—-----------.------------ Alex Goley

._ PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

"Eatered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Look Who’s Talking... !

The latest issue of the campus humor (%) magazine takes
time out from its usual. babbling to present an editorial policy
und make a slam at this newspaper—Davidson's leading weekly
publication. The editorial in this folio of advertising refers to
fhe Davidsonian as ‘‘a local pulp publication.’’ The grade of
paper used in the two literary outlets seems to be the oniy field
in which the magazine is superior to The Davidsonian. There
‘seoms to be nu more fields in which the artist (oh, pardon us, the
editor) ean claim superiority. :

The normal reader of the magazine hastily thumbs through
the pages in search of jokes, then tosses the sheets of high grade
paper stapled together into the trash can—its proper home. In
this mst recent issue the editors had the audacity to cut out
many of the jokes—which naturally reduced its readability,
acecrcingly. The claim of the editor in committing this crime
was that the magazine could do with less jokes. If ho is cutting
jokes he should du ‘a good job of it and throw out. the biggest
3 '- of all—-+the entire magazine.

We are ilmost afraid te ask the question of why our col-
lese magazine can’t be like other college magazines and pre-
sent us with true college humor. We say we are almost afraid
Lecause of the certainty of the answer that like other Davidson
institutions, che magazine does not care to be like other col-
leges. The magazine is ». content to be in the strict Davidson
way that it refuses to be more liberal in 1ts views. It appears
to fear the censure of our more conservative brethren in the stu-
dent body and on the faculty.

We have heard and read much work by students which
shows good literary work, but seems to be a bit too off eolor for
the magazine to print. Perhaps if’ the editors could see their
way clear to broaden their scope they could acquire much more
material and readers—which we understand to be the purpose
of the magazine. We are college men with supposedly near ma-
ture minds at least. Can we not be presented with more realism
in the work of the magazine —J.H.

ee ecw ce ew owen eeercece=

Abernathy Again ....

Not long ago the student body was somewhat set back
on its heels by a speech by Dr. Abernathy, in which he attacked
geveral of the organizations on the campus for their com-
placency and uselessness; this newspaper being one of the prin-
cipal points of attacks. Since that time he has met with several
groups of students and discussed various aspects of the problems
with them and suggested solutions.

Whether or not The Davidsonian or any of the other organi-
zations have improved or not is a question which I do not in-
tend to take up, as that is for you to decide. I do wish, how-
ever; to express an interpretation of his speech, which seems to
me to be a very practical one, along with the others that have
been expressed. It seems to me that he is simply saying that the
various organizations on the campus are simply not realizing.
tne” ootentialitie., they are not capitalizing on their opportu-

.*,ic8. In our own case, for example, he pointed out ‘hat we
hove some very capable reporters on our staff, but they need
a little training to improve the quality of our paper. We have
been allowing this talent to go unused and the paper has suf-
-ered for it.

Here in the student body we have men capable of doing
better jobs than they are dving, and thereby make the school
cotter, as well as benefit themselves by their work. In our
various honorary and literary societies we have unlimited possi-
bilitics for improvement of study habits, and general scholar-
shir but in mauay eases they are going unrealized. I think Dr.

= athy’s advice has already begun to bear fruit and sev-
l c.ganizat:ons have taken steps to make improvements and
realize their potentialities. The organizations on the campus
were organized with a specific purpose in mind, but in a few

‘eases. this original purpose seems to have been forgotten and
the uo: ‘anization merely exists; it does no good whatsoever. Some
few o these organizations don’t even bother to meet any more
ever to elect officers, unless it is at the last minute for the
annual.

if the members of the literary societies would take the
m «tags seriously and try to attend each meeting, much could
be complished. As it is in most cases, only a small representa-
tion of the y.oup is on hand.

The sc ..al fraternities and the Campus Club have unlimited
possibilities in helping the student adjust himself to social situa-
tions as weil as raise his scholarship level. Theirs ia the oppor-
tunity to undertake worthwhile projects and carry them through
together. If they really take the problem of social development
seriously, it will benefit each member in the long run, as well as
strengthen the friendships within :

After all we are in college to learn, to prepare ourselves |

for a life’s profession. When we do less than our best in any-
thing, we‘cheat no one but our:elves. Don’t be one of those who
in ten years will be saying “ When I was in college I could have
been this, or I could have done that if I would have.’’. Make
the best of all your opportunities, and help make each organiza-
tion do its best to carry out its aims and purposes.

Huffaker |:

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Passing of an Era...
Penultimate Phase

By HENRY

At the beginning of this year
an article by this writer appeared
in which the Roosevelt adminis-
trations were indicted for having
created a desire in the people to

~be cared for] probably -true.
to| credit for the government in avert-

rather than
care for them-
selves.

This whole con-

dition can with
3 § almost complete
i

. accuracy be lai
_ at the feet of an

; ,application of the
Hansen doctrine of the
economic man

which contends that man works
only for the economic motive and
that when man’s economic needs
are best satisfied, then man is func-
tioning best. The earlier article at-
tempted to prove that this is a
basic tenet of both Communism and
of Socialism and, further, that this
doctrine was slowly but surely be-
coming a part of the thought of
this country through euphemistic
nomenclature which disguised its
real socialistic intent and made ac-
ceptable to the people what they
would otherwise reject. The ear-
lier article also attempted to prove
that man, under Socialism, was but
a slave and tacitly implied that this
was undesirable. That question will
not be of concern here.

Last week President Truman
made his annual state of the na-
tion speech. Throughout he stood
for the right things, the correct
things which all loyal Americans
of course desire. From a super-
ficial examination of the speech it
would appear that Truman is not
attempting to carry on the New
Deal. But two short paragraphs
give this impression the lie.

“We have met and reversed the
first significant downturn in eco-
nomic activity since the war. In
accomplishing this, government
programs for maintaining employ-
ment and purchasing power have
been of tremendous benefit.”

“At present, largely because of
the ill-considered tax reduction of

E. HANSEN
the Eightieth Congress, the gov-
ernment is not receiving enough
revenue to meet its necessary (?)
expenditures.” _

Both of these ‘statements are
The first claims

ing an economic recession. This,

ef course, was done by the sgme/—
ultimately futile buttressing of a|

weak structure from without that
oceurred in the thirties. It was pail
for with tax money derived mainly
from the middle class. These in-
creased taxes have made it im-
possiblé for a large segment of the
population to save enough for old
age. but that is all right. The gov-
ernment will take care of them
through the ever increasing dis-
pensations of our ever growing
welfare state.

The second is interestingly high-
lighted by the recent Hoover Re-
port. It would seem from this that
a large part of the government ex-
penditures are completely unneces-
sary.

This article does not propose to
argue against socialism, ‘welfare
statism, or whatever else you wish
to call it. The American standard
of living is the highest ever and,
in spite of the fact, that Americans
are no happier, no more socially
intelligent, and a good deal less
self-reliant through the application
of this economic man doctrine, the
writer feels that further discussion
on this point is pointless—it ap-
pears that we have cast ip our lot
for good with Franklin and Harry.

But the writer would plead for
more economy in the gradual chat-
telizing of America. We’ simply
cannot afford to spend too much
money in turning the people into
adult children. Freedom is expen-
sive, but the taking away of this
nowadays cheap commodity should
be conducted as inexpensively as
possible. An era is passing and
we have evidently decided what to
do about it, but we must do it with
as much’ dispatch and as econom-

ically as possible. °-

BOOK NOTES

By TOM

We are living in intellectual and
moral chaos ... . Two frogs fell
into a pail of milk. One flopped
over on its back and drowned. The
other: started kicking made a pat
of butter and hopped out. The fol-
lowing is a quotation from a book
by Romano Guardini, a German
who has done a lot of kicking.

“Let us try to realize how deeply
we are sunk in reletivism, that. is,
the attitude of mind: which either
‘denies’ an Absolute altogether, or
at any rate, tries to restrict it with-
in the narrowest limits.

We have lived through th
lapse of an edifice which we expect-
ed to endure for an incalculable
period of time, the collapse of the
political structure of our country
and its power, of the social and
economic order existing hitherto,
and with it of much besides. We
can watch the social sense chang-
ing. And our mental attitude tow-
ards objects and life in general is
equally changing. These changes
go too deep to be dismissed with a
few words, Artistic vision has
changed; the expressionism which
has gradually become familiar, is al-
ready yielding, and the desire is
springing up for a new classicism.
A scientific and philosophical view
of the universe is forming, which
strives to attain loftier and freer un-
derstanding of objects in accord-
ance with their essential nature.

Faced with these profound chang-
es we become rather more acutely
conscious of what in truth is al-
ways happening — that the atti-
tude of the soul towards itself,
its environment and the first prin-
ciples of being, is continually shift-
ing. ‘Che forms of human life, ecdn-
omic, social, technical, artistic, in-
tellectual, are seen to be in a state
of steady if slight transformation.

We live in a perpetual flux. As
long as this flux is not too clearly
perceived, as long as a naive con-
viction ensures a strong underly-
ing reserve of vitality, or deeply-
rooted religious beliefs balance the
increase of knowledge, life can en-
dure it.

Rut in periods of transition, and
when centuries of criticism have
worn away all fixed belief, the flux
forces itself on the mind with an
evidence from which there is no
escape. The condition ensues which
ten years ago was universally pre-
dominant, and is still wide-spread
today; a sense of transitoriness and
limitation takes possession of the
soul. It realizes with horror how
all things are in flux, are passing

PRUFER

away. Nothing any longer stands
firm. Everything can be viewed
from a thousand different angles.
What had scemed secure disinte-
grates, on closer inspection, into a
series of probabilities. To every
thing produced there are many pos-
sible alternatives, Every institution
might equally well have been or-
dered otherwise. Every valuation is
only provisional.

Man thus becomes uncertain and
vascillating. His judgments are no
longer steady, his valuations un-
hesitating. He is no longer capable
of action based on firm conviction
and certain of its aim. He is at the
mercy of the fashions prevalent in
his surroundings, the fluctuations
of public opinion, and his own
moods. He no longer possesses any
dignity. His life drifts. He lacks
everything which we mean by char-
acter. Such a man is no longer cap-
able of conquest. He cannot over-
come error by truth, evil and weak-
ness by moral strength, the stu-
pidity and inconstancy’ of the mass-
es by the great ideas and responsi-
ble leadership dr the flux of time
by works born of the determination
to embody the eternal values. But
this spiritual and intellectual pov-
erty is accompanied by colossal
pride. Man is morbidly uncertain
and morbidly arrogant, The na-
tions are confused by pride, parties
are blinded by self-seeking, and
rich and poor alike are the prey of
an ignoble greed, Every social class
deifies itself. Art, science, techno-
logy — every separate department
of life considers itself the sum and
substance of reality. There is de-
spairing weakness, hopeless inste-
bility, a melancholy consciousness
of being at the mercy of blind, ir-
rational force — and side by side
with these a pride, as horrible as
it is absurd, of money, knowledge,
power, and ability.

Impotence and_ pride, helpless-
ness and arrogance, weakness and
violence — do you realize how by
the continued action of these vices
true humanity has been lost? We
are witnessing a caricature of hu-
manity. In what then does hy
manity in the deepest sense of the
term consist? To be truly’ human
is to be conscious of human weak-
ness, but confident that it can be
overcome. It is to be humble. It
is to realize man’s transjence, but
aspire to the eternal. It is to be a
prisoner of time, but a freeman of
eternity. It is to be aware of one’s
powers, of one’s limitations, but to

(Continued On Page Six)

College Rags

.... IN BRIEF Is there such a thing as a Chris-
tian attitude toward the white-ne-
. By WATT JEFFRIES gro problem? Can we look to the

Church for solutions of issues with
social as well as moral implica-
a “tions? This ques-

“The Daily Tar Heel” of North
Carolina paid a final tribute to

Charlie Justice by dedicating their tion has been
January 7 issue to him. That day. fought to the
by the way, marked the end of a fore by the re-
~ great career, as . ‘ent, valuable
fs Justice was cap-|i a YMCA forum on
taining the vic-l|; 4 the race question.
tortious Rebel 4 at Answering it en-
team in Jackson- fF . ails more trou-
ville. ‘The sports a Tj ile. than. one

page of the issu: Wl would think.
was covered with Davis In the _ first

pictures taker
at different times
during Justice’s
eleven-year ca-
reer, and the back page carried a
picture of the famous player pre-
sented by the merchants of Chapel
Hilt.

Charlie began his career back in
the early °40’s at Asheville High
School. He was elected to All-
Southern, and during the 1942 sea-
son alone made 17 touchdowns,
averaging 35 yards per run, His
longest run that year was 99 2-3!
yards against the state champions
from Knoxville. When he entered
the Navy he was sent to Bainbridge,
Maryland, he made naval headlines
along with NimitZ and the rest.
He didn’t begin by making a hit,
however, His coach refused him any
equipment at first because he was
afraid he would be hurt at football,
He was so persistent that he was
finally given everything except a
pair of shoes, but still wasn’t al
lowed to play. Maniaci (coach) re-
ports that he was always’ the first
out for practices and the last to
leave. This determination caught

place, it might be well to look at
the history of the Church partici-
pation in secular matters, for since
Constantine this kingdom “not of
the world” has played a very im-
portant role in the affairs of tem-
poral rulers, Constantine conquer-
ed under its sign, the feudalistic
society of the Middle Ages was
strengthened by its undergirding
theology, the bourgeois capitalisin
of the sixteenth century evolved a
new theology to make it serve new
needs, Henry VIII altered the Eng-
lish Church into the tool, not the
enemy, of royal depotism. Before
the rise of national states, Chris-
tianity had strengthened the sway
of pope and emperor; now, it form-
‘ed one of the sturdiest supports of
divine right monarchy. The King,
the Stuarts believed, was “ordain-
ed of God,” and his will was auto-
matically law, his judgments, jus-
tice. In France this view continued
almost to the nincteenth century.
Only the rise of eighteenth century
rationalism, dvistic or atheistic in
tone, served to break the union be-
tween Church and State, or, if you
please, the prostitution of Church

the admiration of Maniaci, so he] iq State.
fecided de te him. He ie as the In our own country, founded in
est ends down to tac are, part on fationalistic principles,

with the instruction that they were
to convince him for his own good,
that he wasn’t big enough for foot-
ball. However, they weren't even
able to touch him, to the surprise
of everyone, and Justice was looked
upon with increasing favor from
that time on. ,

After he left the service, Charlie
refused countless collegiate and
professional offers, and returned to
his own State University. Rival
coaches, upon learning this, began
at once to plan claborate defenses
against Justice. One oven tried to
prove that he had signed a profes-
sional contract, but that wasn’t
any more successful than elabo-
rate defenses. In four years at
U.N. C., Justice has advanced the
ball more than 10 miles. He has
run 2,755 yards, passed for 2,299
yards, kicked for 10,439 yards, re-
turned punts 1,200 yards, and re-
turned kickoffs 892 yards.

Among his friends, Justice's
modesty is probably as talked’ about
as his football feats. When some-
one asked how Charlie felt about
missing some of the recent first-
string All-Americas, one of ‘his
friends said, “He feels the same
way about missing them as he
did about making them. It doesn’t
affect him.”

FLICKER

Flashes

By HUGH SWAN

there has been far less connection
between ecclesiastical and politico-
social forces. Yet even here,, the
Church proved invaluable to the
Federalist party in establishing the
idea that a rich man is usually a
virtuous one. Jefferson was unable
to see the truth of this statement,
but he was a free-thinker.

And, indeed, America has seen

“Christian approaches” to the Ne-

When we ambled into the YMCA
Forum on Race Relations last
Wednesday night in the Quadrang-
lers’ room, we anticipated a knock-
down drag-out pull-’em-through-
the-mud disscusion. Unfortunately,
there wasn’t much knocking, lit-
tle dragging, and certainly no mud-
slinging; in fact, the whole discus-

of a little gentlemanly sparring.

Actually there was quite a bit of
discussion, but on kind of an off-
the-point basis. Dr, Charles Jones
of Chapel Hill was trying to prove
his theme of Christian Morality,
which in essence seems to mean:
“God loves us; we ought to love
each other,” but his statements
were all too much based on pure-
ly personal expericnces. And yet he
perhaps proved one thing conclu-
sively: that the problem of race
relations is never clear to anyone
until they have been personally
thrown into direct and sharp per-
sonal contact with someone. of a
different color. This was all very
fine, but about the only solution he
had to offer was one of personal
reformation, that is, the problem
must be solved by individuals, not
by society as a whole using con-
certed group action.

The Davidson trio of Drs. Aber-
nathy, Johnston, and McGavock en-
countered many difficulties in eith-
er agreeing with, or refuting, many
of his statements, simply because
they were all approaching the prob-
lem from more or less the social
angle. As a matter of fact the dis-
cussion never really got to the ‘so-
lution” level. Everybody was tov
busy trying to refute each other’s
opinions, and a certain degree of
semantic confusion reigned through
out as a stumbling block to any
real progress.

Dr. Abernathy pointed out in an-
swer to Dr. Jones’ demands for ab-
solute Church reformation on the
problem, that churches today com-
promise, and tend to shy away, from

eee Excellent Picture
*® Good Picture
* Fair Picture

°°
Monday and Tuesday

‘Malaya’ stars Spencer Tracy,
James Stewart, and Valentina Cor-
tesa. Aided by the powerful
American , newspaper publisher,
Lionel Barrymore and FBI agent,
John Hodiak, James Stewart gets
permission to smuggle raw rub-
ber out of Jap-occupied Malaya
during the war. Spencer Tracy, his
former buddy who knows the
Malayan coast like a book, goes
with him. Bar owner, Sydney
Greenstreet, helps them make a
deal with rubber growers to smug-
gle it out in fishing boats to the
awaiting camouflaged ships. Some-
where along the line Tracy and
Stewart are doublecrossed as the
Japs are tipped-off. With the help
of his native girl stweetheart, Val-
entina Cortesa, Tracy attempts to
get the situation in hand. If you
are interested in the outcome; see
this “two star” picture.

en a

money, position, amusement, and
too many other things stand in the
way of the average church goer to-
day to prevent his being altruistic
Wednesday and Thursday and living by “Christian Morality.”
“Dancing in the Dark” stars Wil-} Churches aren’t going to reform
liam Powell, Marks: Stevens and! suddenly in omnia and reverse com-
Betty Drake. No information was] pletely the stand they have taken
received on this picture. on the race situation for well over
Priday and Saturday a hundred and fifty years. That

“The Crooked Way” stars John| would be too much to expect, al-
(Continued On Page Six) though it could solve the problem.

“absolutism” as much as possible: ;

FRIDAY, JAN. 13, 1950 |

FUZZY FIZZES....

By CHARLIE DAVIS

gro problem before. The ferocious
Quaker, John Greenleaf Whittier,
the religious fanatic, John Brown,
the Southern ministers with their
Biblical cant in justification of slav-
ery, all are maniféstations of the
perverted forms that religious en-
thusiasm may take.

nowadays, faced as we are by
the threat of totalitarianism, it is
eminently natural that we should
incorporace the ethics of democ-
racy into our Gospel. It becomes
extremely easy to say, "This is an-
democratic; therefore it is un-
Uhristian.”’ Of course, Christianity
existed for hundreds of years be-
fore the western world began to be
democratized, but to the contem-
porary zealot, that is beside the
point.

A distinguished missionary, just
home from China, observed recent-
ly that America has evolved a new
Trinity, Christianity. Capitalism,
and Democracy. How — desirable
this connection between the Church
and secular institutions would be
if the former could transfigure the
latter, itself, meanwhile, remaining
pure! All too often, however, the,
opposite process occurs. In its eag-
erness to advocate a secular pro-
gram, the Church forgets that it
was originally a revolutionary in-
stitution, pledged to ends not of
this world, and goes with the tide
of whatever force is temporarily
ascendant.

This is not to say that the Chris-
tian should not practice his Chris-
tianity. If he is sincere, application
of the ethic is inevitable. But he
must be cautious about laying
down blanket solutions, wery of
universal panaceas. Let him fight
injustice wherever he finds it, but
let him not claim omniscience on
the authority of his religion. Let
him remember that preachers are
not authorities on all subjects, that
the best.intentions may bring about
the most harm, that moderate re-
alism often achieves more results
than blind idealism. As Pascal.
says, “He who would act the angel
acts the brute.” At different times
the Cliurch has spoken to men with
different voices; usually it is on
spiritual matters that her ‘words
have been most consistent and
most telling.

Who Pulled The Most Punches?

By TOM ABEL

It is the author's personal opin-
ion that we must again compro-
mise and get sort of a happy me-
dium between the two. The prob-
lem is simply going to have to
evolve, and evolve quite slowly.
We feel that the Church should
take steps whenever it is possible
to allow greater tolerance, and

sion rarely got beyond the stage{on the other hand, the way that

tolerance gets to the point where
the Church is willing to change
some long-standing statute is by
the personal wants of the individ-
ual members. Therefore, it shotld
be up to all of us to do whatever
we can, whenever we can to raise
the bars of our own _ personal
Prejudices and pre-conceived ideals
to let in just a little more liberali-
ty, but that’s just one man’s opin-
ion.

To get back to the conference
proper it, was interesting to note
some of the things that went on
during the discussion — perhaps
the first of its type here at David-
son, at least in a long while. An
omnipresent fact was that all the
speakers were unable to attempt
even the slightest bit of approach in
a purely secular fashion. Perhaps
the development of thought would
have been much better if they had
been able to, for maybe th:-
lem should be approached from a
purely materialistic viewpoint. Who
knows?

As can be imagined, the confer-
ence was far from clear of burning
prejudice, and although I'm not
hard of hearing, I could have sworn
that everytime anybody used the
word “liberal” it sounded like
“heratic.” It's strange, but liberals
in the South today seem to be just
as much behind the eight-ball as
they were a hundred years ago. Of
course it’s their own fault, for
everyone knows that the safest
place in right on top of the fence.
Just sit there, don't. think, and
you'll never be accused of liberal-
ism.

And speaking of fence tops, it‘
would seem to us that Davidson
College has at last started teetering
a little bit in regards to its once
solid stand. By that I mean that
the conference, regardless of the
confusion, was a success, a defi-
nite step in the right direction.
Maybe if we could have ten or a
dozen more such meetings people
would really begin to wake up —
so what are we going to do about

(Continued On Page Six)
