ence standings” is con-.
cerned, but Davidson
will be out to avenge a
slightly humiliating de-
feat at the hands of the
South Carolinians ear-
lier in the month when
Wildeat tournament

. chances ‘were at stake.
We are not going very By GORDON SCOTT
far out on a limb when we pick the loeal quint to stomp the
Cadets and end the season in a winning way.

AS WE SEE IT

It’s a pretty difficult assignment to try to give an aceurate
summary of Davidson's pliy in the season just drawing toa
close. In the first place, we don't believe that anyone was dis-
appointed, as a whole, with the Cats. Trne, some saw the glory
and prestige of a tournament berth looming far ahead after that
first conference win over strong VPI, but erratie playing and
inexperience entered the picture when the chips were down as
the season progressed. We will be the first to volunteer that Da-
vidson had a far better team than conference standings would
indicate, but that’s neither here nor there.
umns tell the tale.

Regardless of the number of wins they managed, the Cats
played a brand of ball which was highly appealing to the aver-
age spectator. The use of the fast break kept the games rolling
along at a hot elip and the potential scoring threat of all the Cats
kept the interest of fans—to say nothing of the opponents—at
a high pitch, Last year, it was pretty much Cheek, Williams, and
Cobb. But during the frays this vear, each of the starting five
had his say in the scoring. The driving push shots of Bill Brooks
were always good for a sizeable number of points. The other for-
ward, Tommy Haller, specialized with push shots from the left
of the circle but could be counted on for uneanny- baskets from
any position on the court. Don Lazenby and Tom Coleman, who
alternated at center didn’t break any scoring records. but they
managed to get their share of shots under the basket. In addi-
tion, T. C. came through with many beautiful hook shots. The
long set shots of guard Fred Hengeveld were hlways a threat.
Combining set shots with push shots, Duteh possessed one of the

for the won-lost col-

best shooting. averages on the squad. In averaging slightly ov-
er eight points per game, Captain Whit Cobb specialized in driv-
ing lay-wps-and long set shots in addition to being the smoothest
working guard in the conference.

RESERVES CAME THROUGH

In an effort to find a winning combination, Coach Baird sub-
stituted frequently. and the reserves performed well. Mae Me-
Lean took few shots but when he did, he made them count. Re-
member the 15 points he got in the second: half against Clemson
back in January? Bob Turk’s push shots kept his name high in
the seoring totals for several games. Brady Osborne was good for
four of five points per game which is a pretty fair average con-
sidering the few minutes he played each game. Bo Roddeéy uti-
lized his speed to keep track of shifty opponents in his reserve
role. Al Cook, playing for the first time at Davidson, possessed
a better than average shooting eve, but his limited service in
games afforded him little opportunity to show his mettle. Walt
Hankins. who joined the squad after exams, proved to be a
good manen rebounds; and Ted Bowen and Bob Nimoeks were
used only spavingly, but they adequately filled the bill when
their turn came.

BAIRD’S FIRST CAMPAIGN SUCCESSFUL

We can’t overlook Boyd Baird in this short Summary. Earlier
in the season we sang his praises, and we have had- no occasion
to regret one word of what we've said. Baird has come through
with his first major coaching job in enviable style. Molding a
sophomore dominated team around three lettermen is no easy

task, but Baird did it and produced one of the most spirited and |

scraping crews that has graced this campus in many a day. His’
cagers lost some close ones, they seemingly folded completely up
on other nights, but winning or losing, the spirit was good, due
mainly to the spirit of Baird himself. His first varsity efforts
have been crowned with success, and from here it looks Kke bas-
ketball. at Davidson will be in good shape so long as Boyd Baird
is in the driver’s seat.

PAGE FOUR

By BILL WHITE
the one in

seedlings

The tean winter,
which his sophomore

have grown and nurtured on exper-|!

ience, comes to an end for Boyd
Baird tomorrow night when his
Wildcat cagers close out the sea-
son against Citadel’s Bulldogs in’
Johnston Gym at 8:15.

For only two Cat cagers, Cap-

tain Whit Cobb and guard’ Bo:
Roddey will it be the career cur-
tain ringer. Every other man on

the squad is. due back next year.
From here, both seniors will move
into prominence on the © tennis
courts before leaving the collegiate
ranks for good.

Tonight's finale will be the first
in three years that the Wildcats
have not been Durham-bound fot
the Southern Conference tourna-
ment, but few concedéd at ‘the first
of the season they would have pro-

‘gressed as well as they did this

winter, much less make. the tour-
ney. ,

As Coach Boyd Baird pointed out
at the outset, “We'll have to win
the close ones and every one we're
favored in, too,.to make the tourna-
ment.” With the sophomore-domi-
nated club that he had, he could
hardly take all of the close ones,
evidence the North Carolina. loss
here when the Cats blew a healthy
early. lead, chiefly due to inexper-
ience. Also, the sophomore ran hot
and cold throughout the conference
this winter, and Davidson did not
have its exceptions, evidence the
poor weekend showing in Charles.
ton with low scoring losses to the
same Citadel they face tonight and
to the College of Charleston whom

theygwalloped two days later some

thirty points.

Tonight, needless to say, the Cats
will be out to avenge that loss to
the Bulldogs and to take one final
fling at improving their confer
ence positiog, at
distant from Mat cellar.floor. Wed-
nesdays win over Furman bettered
the stahding, but revenge tomorrow
will be one more feather: in the cap
and possibly one notch up the lad-
der.

(Continued On Page 5) ;

present not, too},

TOMMY HALLER |

in Cot Victories

By CHERRY STRIBLING

This week, as the basketball sea-
sow draws to a close, we salute the
player who has made the most out-
standing improvement since last
year—Tommy -Haller. This spring-
legged forward has really “comme
out” since the '49 season. Last year
he was a little used sub, hidden in
the shadow of suclr luminaries as
\ Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams.
However he did receive some good
experience and some good coaching
under Norm Shepard and this year
he sprang into the forefront as a
starting forward.":

Haller’s big night was in the sec-
ond Duke game when he pumped in
over 20 points but he has been fair-
ly consistent as a point getter and
is a good rebound and “tip-in man.
Haller plays with finger-tip  con-
trol. By that we mean that when

he pumps in those one-hand —_

Next week the interest in the in.
ter-fraternity sports world will shift
from basketball to the swimming
and handball tournaments. The

handball tournament will be. held

|) ternity will be allowed -to enter
two men in each event. When these |.

"| time trials or in the actual com-

“round-robin”
each fraternity entering a man in

in a fashion, with
the singlés and a team in the
doubles. Each team will have to lose
two events to be put out of that
particular event. Tie games will be
‘played off by playing an. extra
doubles match.

In the swimming meet each fra-

two men are eliminated, that fra-
ternity will be out of that event.
They may lose their men in the

petition. Each fraternity is allowed
to enter one relay team in each
of the relays. The following events
will be held in the swimming meet:

(1) 25-yard free style.

(2) 50-yard free style.

(3) 75-yard free style.

(4) 50-yard back. stroke.

(5) 50-yard breast stroke.

-(6) Underwater swim.

(7) Individual medley (25-yard
back stroke, 25-yard breast
stroke and 25-yard free
style).

(8) 200-yard relay ,free style—

50.yards each).

150-yard medley (50-yard
back stroke, 50-yard breast
stroke, and 50-yard free
style).

10) ovement

shots he has the ball on his finger
tips and they are remarkably sensi-
tive. His favorite shot is a one-hand
push from the side and Tommy is
also a very good hook shot, break-
ing from left to right to take’ a.
pass in the circle and hook it in. at
top speed.

Tommy is from Pulaski, Va.,
and is a member of Phi Gamma
Delta Fraternity. He is an out-
standing member. of the track team

(Continued On Page 5)

By DICK LILES

Tuesday night terminated the
regular season for the Davidson
grapplers as they were edged by
the Duke matmen, 17-9. The match
proved very exciting for both. the
men and the spectators. The fea.
ture match of the day was in the
“unlimited’ class. The entire matth
was decided when 170-pound Billy

‘| Britt won.a decision of 230-pound

Bill McNeely by avoiding contact
with McNeely. Davidson’s hopes
rested in a possible tie, had Me-
Neely pinned Britt. —

Johnny . Kelton, Mott Price and
Bull Alexander looked in top: form
as they defeated ‘their opponents
for our only wins. Kelton de-
cisioned the captain of the Duke
team, Gallagher.

The final results are as follows:

121—Hodgson (Duke) defeated
Bell, 5-2.

128—Kelton defeated Gallagher
(Duke), 8-5.

136—Orzano
Grisson, 8-2

145—Dieffenbach (Duke) pinned
Péndleton in 5:09.

155—Stork (Duke)
Haynes, 6-2.

(Duke) defeated,

defeated

4-1.

175—Alexander defeated Harri-
son (Duke), 5.4.

Unlimited—Britt (Duke, 170) de-
feated McNeely (230, 3.1.

The preliminary match featured
the Wildkittens going wild to de-
feat the Blue Imps, 25-13. Craven,
Irvin, Goudy, Haynes and Morrow

-|Starting Quintet Fails To Click

‘| lor who. placed third in the 50-yard

‘and Bob Long, whe was second in

‘more time and training, the Cat

165—Price defeated McMaster, $

all won for the locals. Adams was |$
the only loser and this was by a}

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Davidson’s hot and cold Wildeats took their second vietory
of the season over Furman Wednesday night in Johnston Gym,
68-58. Although the Cats of Coach Boyd Baird started off in a
walk, they ended in a dash. Captain Whit Cobb, playing his last
year on a Davidson cage squad, played a brilliant game and
dropped in 16 points; besides leading the team in floor play.
Brooks, Osborne, and Coleman, also sparked for Davidson in the
_ ee esti 10, 9, and 8 apiece.

The first half began slow as Da-
C Swin s Ba ly vidson was having trouble finding

the basket early in the game-and the
By BILL ADAMS

Purple Hurricane of Furman was
content with working the ball in
and scoring only on good oppor-
tunities. Behind 4-0, the Wildcats

Coach: tel: Redding: took charge quickly -snapped back with 2 bas-

of opening the gate for the Mid-

winters festivities here by arrang-

ing for the first intercollegiate swim

meet that Davidson has ever par-

kets and a foul shot to go ahead,
5.4, with about 4 minutes gone. Tlie
ticipated in, and afthough the Cat
swimmers lost in their first at-

lead was.exchanged again and again
before Furman spurted ahead, 13-11

tempt, they~gave promise of bet-

ter things to come.

with 8 minutes gone. The ball game
Redding put his swimmers up

began to move much faster then.
A push shot by Malcolm MacLean
with 10 minutes and fifteen seconds
remaining put the Cats. ahead, 15-
‘ : f . 13. This ti th y s
against N. C. State’s Jayvees in an _" ome ay: ware te sey
sree ; ahead. The score at. the end of the
exhibition match here Friday after-} .. i oe >
2 first half was Davidson 33; Fur-
noon in the new Johnston gym 27
pool before a large crowd, but the — ‘
* we H The second ‘half was a high scor-
State tankmen were just a_ mite]. ; < 55. :
: ae ing one in which Davidson hit the
swifter than Redding’s charges. The se oaks om
, pied hoops for 35 more points while Fur-
score. was 30-36, indicating the pally ste , ;
man’s Pufple Hurricane’ was only
balance between the two teams.
Davidson won both of the relays
and George Cornelson won the
200-yard breast stroke to account
for most of our points. Bob’ Long,

getting 31. The action was fast in

the second half as both teams be-

gan to score almost freely. Kerr,

who had only 2 points the first

Ds : half, hit for 14 the second half. His

Ray Cunningham, and Bill Ray ‘set shots kept the Hurricane within

combined to bia ge scoringg distance of the Cats

ley relay in 3: i while Ray, ugh throughout that. time. An interest-

Evans, Aubrey Miree and Ken Tay- ing sidelight of the game was a set

lor composed the winning 400-yard shot duel hetween Kerr and Whit

ca 8 bgp rn se ig Cobb, both of whom fotaled 16

orn y “| points .for the game,

lowed by Ray Cunningham, who In the free throw department,

took’ second place. Comnelson’s! man hit, for 20 of 32, while

ys age cr dson points were | Davidson had 16 of 30, Behind Kerr
made by Johnny Jervis, who took
third in the 200-yard free style and
third in the 440-yard free style.
Aubrey Miree, who garnered second

in Furman’s scoring were Eding-
ton with 11 points, and Pruitt with
in. the 50-yard. free style, Ken Tay-

12. Davidson’s Wildcats close out
the season, Saturday night against
The Citadel at Davidson.

Chesterfield
Sport Quizz

recently signed as the highest
paid pitcher in history?

free style relay teams for the, Cats.
in third in the 100-yard free style,

the 150-yard back stroke.
Although possibly not an eye-
opener as a beginning, the meeting
was still: far from a failure. The
boys did very well: against com- hk
petition for the first time, and with

Yankee pitcher

swim team should be much stronger

by next year. A few more exhibition} 2. Who was the North Carolina
meets have been scheduled for this male athlete who was
year, poe bes — 7: 2 awarded the Teague Trophy
lay a foundation for the teams of. :
the coming years. We need only last Monday night.
wait for the foundation to harden] 3. Who was the oiutstanding
now. : Southern Conference sopho-
¢ more basketball piayer who
was forced to drop out of
DAVIDSON school because of scholastic
, work? :
| .4. What is’ “The House that
Ruth Built?’
' WEEK OF FEB. 27-MAR. 4
5. Who was voted female ath-

lete of the half century?
RULES

1. Print your answers clearly on
the back of a Chesterfield

wrapper.

Take your arswers to Frank
Perrin in 112 West.

MON. -TUE.
“ALWAYS KEEP THEM
Milton Berle - Virginia Mayo

‘‘WITHOUT HONOR’
Loraine Day - Franchot Tone

No entries will be accepted
later than 24 hours after the
Davidsonian is circulated.

The first three correct en-
tries will each receive a car-
ton of Chesterfield cigarettes.

This contest not. open. to

De Babe De rs Aa le A RR i i i il a

members of the Davidsonian
staff,

