‘FRIDAY, JAN. 18, 1950 eee | _ ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

« By BILL ADAMS ;
The Tarheels of UNC paid Jolin-
ston gym their first visit Saturday
and emerged with a 63-53 triumph |
over Boyd Baird's: Wildcats in a
Southern Conference battle before
a full house of 3,000 fans..The de-
feat marked the Cats thifd confer-
ence loss against one victory.
Davidson started out in perfect |
fashion. The Wildcats, who saad
up an 8-point lead about mid-way
>» |in the first half, seemed to ee
all the necessary guns to win with
} Whit Cobb hawking Tarheel seige-
gun Hugo Kappler with the grace
of a. panther and Dutch Henge-
| veld apparently red-hot for the bas-
| ket, but. then the scene began to
~* | fade. A check of personal fouls. ne-
cessitated the removal of ace for-
ward Bill Brooks with four fouls
and the censerving of ‘Tommy Kal-
ler and Don Lazenby with 3 each
TP. C. Coleman quickly acquired his

The Davidson football team’ has
elected as captain for the 1950 sea-
son Auburn Lambeth, the sensa-
tional passing tailback who has
‘led the Wildcat offense for the
past two seasons.

The henor is one which Lambeth
-richly deserves. Twice an all-state
selection, he finished the past sea-
son fourteenth in passing, eigh-
teenth in kickoff. returns and: thir-
teenth in total offense among all
the backs of the nation.

For the first time since the war
a captain has been selected by his
teammates. Coach Bill Storey be-
gan appointing captains for each
game, a practice which Coach Char-
ley Jamerson continued. However,
Jamerson feels, as most. other
coaches de, that teams should have
a leader elected by the players. All
great ball clubs have been led by
natural teaders and the Wildcat
team has surely picked one in
Lambeth, who is: vice-president of
the Student Body.

Elected as alternate captain is
Woody Leach, crack defensive hali-
back. The speedy Leach came out
of ‘complete obscurity to land a
first-string berth on  Jamerson’s
defensive unit the past fall, Woody
was a hard hitter and showed skil-
ful ability in coming up fast from4
his halfback position to bottle up}
enemy plays. The selection | off)
Leach, an officer of the Junior}
class, comes as no surprise eith-f
er. :

Congratulations fo the first cap-f
tains elected by the team since the
war.

Interfrat Hoopsters
Battling in First
Round

By MAC RICHARDS
JIM SMITH - J. V. HOWELL}
BILL BRADFORD

‘Pikas 36; Campus Club 18
The Pikas jumped off to a fly-}
ing start and ran up a 21-8 half-

quota of fouls to match his team-
mates, Charlie Thorne, of. Carolina,
found: his’ shooting-eye, and soon
the stage, was set for the rest of
the game.

From that point on, Davidson was
unable to get its starting-five into
the gume together a single time
and was forced. ‘to battle Carolina's

“YES, WERE RATHER COUNTING ON
J best with a shifting line-up, Howard STOFPSKY THI S “f€E A RQ. ” ~ .

) Deasy and Nemo Nearman = took a

charge of rebounds as Thorne pour- =
Hed points through the nets, while} lina making 18 points besides hand-| ent outcome. Few spectators were] coat boarded a stréet car.
Davidson's fine early passing game|ling their floor game. Nearman convenced of any Carolina super- “I don’t think’ I’ve ridden on a

lost its wedge to set up too-many}made 12 -.and) Kappler 1, while} iority, but .nevertheless, Carolina] street: car for nearly two years,”
) Carolina scores. The Cats were still| Nearman and De asy used their six

03, Davidson 53, is the score] she said to the conductor, as she
hanging on to a 1 point lead at| foot six inch heights to keep the | which goes. down in the books. tendered her fare. “I ride in my
hali-time but they. soon. fell be- |

smaller Cats away from rebounds. —inrninemn own car, you know.”

hind in the second half and were} A) few breaks and less fouling \ torrential shower came on sud- He looked solemn and said: “You

never able to to catch up might well have produced ‘a differ-|denly, so the Wwomatt in the sable don't know how we've missed you!”
Dutch Hengeveld led the Cat; : a i inna

point-makers with 14 points, fol :

lowed by: Bob. Tark with 10,and
Brooks and Haller with 7 each.
Whit Cobb turned in a truly great
defensive. game, breaking up sev- |
eral Carolina fast-breaks by him
self,

Thorne was the big man for Caro-

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
| Club Ww L|

time score on the Campus Club. Ab Pikas 4 0
Gaither of the winners led the Sigma Chi ' 0
first half spree with three buckets. f} Me} Kappa Sigs 2.0... 3 0
He and Ralph Brooks of’ the.Cam- ‘APTAIN lies Se nactialieeiedl MBE S.A-E. on 4 1
pus. Club tied for scoring honors, CAPT ELECT AUBURN LA TH Independents ~~~. 2 3 1
with each. getting eight. The second “ ! ; : xe Betas - _._2 1
half was closer, but the Pikas’} half, -but the SAE’s had a one-point] Sigma Chi 36; Campus Club 23 K. A oo. oe 9
early scoring proved the difference. | ™@ngin at the whistle. Towering! The Sigma Chi's undefeated team| Phi: Delt... __. t .@
Bud Aiken and Bob Bennett, SAE | continued its winning Ways as they] Pi Kaps —_ l 4

Sigma Chi 30; KA 26 stalwarts, split 12 pews. between pulled away from the hard-fight-|S. P. E. rn | | 4

The KAs lost their second game them, but it was Phi Delt's Auburn ing Campus Clubber to. a substan-| Campus Club _...\ 0 4

Lambeth who was high for the] tia} 13-point victory margin. Early

in as many starts by bowing to

ii ioe i “ . |
the undefeated Sigma Chis. The evening. in the game the Campus Club made

KAs led at the half by 17-13, but
the winners .Were too. strong in
the second half. Dorsey. Pleasants
got 10 for high man, while Blatt got
eight. points and many rebounds.
This pair proved the margin of
victory. Bill Bird. contributed nine
points in a losing cause,

Betas 33; SPE’s 29
The Betas and the SPE’s put on
a nip and tuck battle, but when
the score was totaled, the Betas
came out on top, Mauney was hot
for the SPE’s, bagging 10 points.

Kappa Sigs 26; Pi Kapps 12

On last Friday the Kappa> Sigs
romped on an out-classed Pi Kapp
team, 29-12. After the first few

minutes there was. never any doubt’

as to the outcome, for the Kappa
Sigs were obviously the better
team. The Kappa Sigs were lead
by Ellis and Crosland, with eight
points apiece. High scorer for the
Pi. Kapps was Whisnant with four
points.

Independents 37; Phi Gams 27
The Independent basketball team

a real fight for the lead, but the
het Sigma’ Chi's eventually left
them far behind. Merrill paced the
Sigma Chi's with seven points,
while Remson and Brooks tied for
scoring honors for the Campus Club
with six each.

Pikas 38; SPEs 35
The Pikas edged the SPEs 38-35
in a tight, thrilling ball game. last
Friday. The game was in doubt
until the final seconds. Then the
Pikas pumped ‘to a three-point lead;
and that was the ball game. Char-

pio pig ie B d 3 ikas. wi
This was more than offset by the breezed past the Phi Gams by a . Se ee a “a _
eight-point totals of both Jervis} comfortable 10-point margin in the f me 8 mereeers. 8

and Monroe of the Betas. other game fist: Friday. High point the example for the SPEs with 10.
man for the Independents was Me-
SAE 26; Phi Delt 25 Leod with six points. Potts, New- : KA 22; SAE 21

The SAE’s and Phi Deis played| bold and Eborn were close behind In this close fought battle there
as close a ball game as is possible, | with 4 apiece. The Phi Gams were | We" few points scored. The half-

The score was tied at }1-all at the} paced by Blanks’ 11°. points. time score read 10 to 10, and at
the final buzz it was 22 to 21, K.A.

Preyer and Aiken were high with
nine points each.

Pi Kaps 23; Betas 22
Scoring was likewise slow in this
‘contest; At the halfway mark, the
scoreboard read, 8 to 10, in favor of
‘the PisKaps. Monroe for the Betas,
and Reynolds for Pi Kaps were
high scorers with seven points
each. The final score was 22 to 23,
with the Pi Kaps coming out on
top by the margin of one free
throw.

Phi Delts 32; Phi Gams 29

It was a hard-fought game all
the way, but with the Phi Delts-
keeping the upperhand most of the
time. At half-time the Phi Delts
had a five-point margin, score 20-
‘15. Roy White poured in nine
points to pace the Phi Delts and
two Camps, both had eight. The
al score was 32 to 29, Phi Delts.

- Kappa Sigs 41; Independents 34

In this high scoring battle the
ppa Sigs came out on top by a
in of 41 to 35. Fitzgerald had
13 points and was high for the
, and the Kappa Sigs...Poole
next, turning in a nice per-
nce for the Independents,
‘with 10 points. The half time score
was 20 to 15,

Independents 35; Pi Kapps 26

The strong Independents. were
just too niuch for the scrappy Pi
Kapps. The Independents went on
from a 18-8 half time lead to cop
the game by the score of 35-26,
Castles and Nall hit regularly for
the Pi Kapps in the second. half,
but numerous baskets by Poole and
Taylor spelled the margin of vie-
tory. Nall had 12 to: lead the Pi
Kapps, while Taylor's 12 points
and Poole’s 11 pace. the Inde-
pendent attack.

SAE’s 24; Phi Gams 23

The SAE’s eked out a 24-23 vie-
tory over the Phi Gams last Tues-
day ‘afternoon. The SAE’s lead all
the way, but were closely. pressed
by the Phi Gams, who narrowed
the SAE lead to only one point be-
fore the final whistle blew. Aiken
led the scoring for the SAE’s with
seven points, while C, Camp, Ab-
bott, and Blanks led the Phi Gam
scorers with six points each.

Sigma Chi 32; SPE’s 26

The Sigma Chi's continued their
winning ways by notching their
fourth straight triumph, over the
tall SPE’s 32-26. Merrell and Pleas-
ants were the high men for the
Sigma Chi’s with 11 and 10 points
respectively. Mauney had 9 for the
SPE’s.

SAE’s 44; Campus Club 21

The Campus Club were the vic-
tims of another team as the SAE’s
downed them 44-21. Whitfield and
Livingston each had 9 points for
the CC while Bud Aiken had 10 and
Bob Bennet had 10 for last year’s
Champs.
Pi Kap Alpha 41; Pi Kap Phi 31

The Pika’s overcame a 5 point
Pi Kappa at the half and went on
to down them 41-31, Nall and Whis-
nant had 12 and 10. Sifford and
Smith lead the Pika's with 12 each.
The Pika’s are unbeaten in four
starts. i

: KA’s 25; Phi Gams 15

The KA’s beat the Phi’ Gaim’s
by a score of 25-15. Scoring among.
the Phi Gam's was, about evenly
divided. McKeithen led the KA’s

with 14 points
