PAGE TWO .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
GE YEAR

r
| ~ ..Re

COLLE :
EDITOR IN CHIEF ...-.-.......----- -eceeee BOB HOLLISTER ,
BUSINBSS MANAGER ....----.----------------- BILL. HOUCK re
, EDITORIAL STAFF . <<
Associate Editor ......---.----.~--------------- poneeneee - - Doug Hix
Associate Editor ......-..-.--.-.------------------ Lonnie ‘Turnipseed | , Wi (
®

ee re

Associate Editor ..-.....------------------- . Jack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS Arnie Covell, pit Comming, Hartley Hall,

h, Tos . Ji ray, Bi ollister, . .
Neill Loca Tee Mon Soctt “ Make-up Editors —~— Dan McKei- | The Davidson Negro
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling. problem has gone through three

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries | stages at this time, Revelation,
Richardson

| eva

~
housing

Photographs _..--~--------------------------- 2-2 --- Ed : ° .
Assignments Asst. ----------+----------- ------ Watt Jeffries Revolution, ane Results. ant. 18
Proofreader .....----------------------------------- Charlie Baldwin | rapidly headed for a final solution.

BUSINESS STAFF A committee has been appointed
Assistant Business Manager ~.------------------~--<--- Bill Cassells| io investigate the possibilities of
Advertising Managers -----~.--------------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw §prming a holding ‘company, or
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison. corporation, which could carry
Circulation Manager._..-.....- censecenenenacenceecee-a-eee Huffaker h , mo lane. f ch
Asst, Circulation Wanagers _ueerenaee Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown through tentative plans tor the
Collections Manager --..-------------------------------- John Loftin | construction of low-cost housing
Subscriptions Manager ----- wo--n-----------: a---- Alex Goley| units to help alleviate the fire,

health, and moral hazards of the
dwellings in back of the main busi-
ness district.

A lot can happen in ten days; it
often does, From Dr. Cart Prit-
chett’s revelation a week ago Sun-
day to his revolution last Sunday a
great number of things came to

Correlate Summer Work
light. In fact, so clear was the sit-

The time has rolled around once more when we must give | uation in the minds of the towns-
the usual careless thought to how we will spend the summer | people that there was really little
months this year. Some will give the matter a real and a serious need for Dr Harnsberger to point
thought while others will drift on figuring how best they can seen while visitmg the problem
‘‘voof off’? using the least possible energy and expense. These | rca at all hours of the night, to
paragraphs are not for you if you allow yourself to fall into the | point out the abilities of rats and
last group. These words are intended to give some brief pointers | flies to carry disease from the open
to those truly interested in putting into and getting out of these aan to the main food stores of

avidson only a few yards away, to
three months, the best that they have. point out the possible portent of a

First, see my main point: In order that your summer 1s to typhoid epidemic. The results ot
be most wisely used by you, it must certainly. be correlated t©| the townmeeting were, needless to
to your school work and must fit itself into that all-important | say, and are, fast forthcoming.
plan for your life’s endeavor. If correctly correlated this sum-| -It just goes to show what one
mer work will make the nine-month experience of school most brotherly ‘love ay naman charity,
meaningful. What’s more, you'll be connected to something as we all should, can do in a town
real that you can feel and see. thereby making your ams and] where people have consciences,
ideals for life close and vital. where inwardly they want to do the

‘Just think of the feeling of accomplishment in time well | right thing. It took a lot of courage
spent. If you chose right, and put your best in, this feeling just for De J ritehett to sy ne things
comes naturally. Choose so that you'll be with lots of dif-- Sunday: it took a lot of work, and
ferently influenced people. The experience of knowing people] ;,-. going to require a lot more to
from many different frames of reference is invaluable. This cor-| see this thing through to a satisfac-
related summer work will develop greater interest in and more
jneentive for the work you will do later.

For practical suggestions, there are hundreds of bulletins in
print to furnish comprehensive outlines of edueational oppor-
tunities at-home and abroad. Students interested in industry,
government, agriculture, institutional services (hospitals, ete.),
interracial workshops, relief projects, may secure for 10 cents
such related information by writing to this address :

The United Christian Youth Movement, 206 South
Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.
. Another source for information on work, study or travel abroad
may be secured from:

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

(Continued From Last Week)
. As in the last part an effort was
U. 8. National Student Association, 304 N. Park made to point out and prove the
Street, Madison, Wisconsin. existence of the two extremes and
Summer service projects are numerous and are so varied | thus the possibility of a collision of
that one looking forward to any major field of study should find these extremes in the near future
. wos . run of history, it is now the time
a project to fit his choice of work. . to show what influence this situa-
You have a chance for a grent investment. Correlate vour | tion will have on the forms of war,
summer work, and the dividends will excel your greatest eX-/ because war is very liable to be the
pectations.—N. L. way this collision will take ptace,
“ and what conclusions ought to be

drawn concerning foreign policy.
Lost Dollar

When discussing war in this con-
Every year each student at i Poa ger a total of twenty | cause and its motives than to its

nection I am refering more -to its
dollars into the Student Activity Fund_generally without ever actual technique. although the ie
knowing for what his money is-spent, afi unfortunately with ‘ ged and has grown

: : . more efficient.
out taking advantage of the undertakings for which he has al Many avhen thinking about this

ready paid. war, mentioned above, still apply in

A general breakdown of disposition of this twenty dollars is| their thought the idea and the pic.
as follows: YMCA $4, Davidsonian $4, Artist Series $4, Quips |-ture of war, as it was known in re-
and Cranks $4, Seripts and Pranks $2, Forensic Couneil $1. The| cent history. They think of war to
remaining dollar is put into a cushion fund to be drawn against |e 2 weighing-scale of nations, a
should the case arise that additional expenditures are needed by] S°4°ch for power and domination, a

sae fight for natural resources and ex-
any one of these organizations. port markets. This might be true

You have a stake in each of these organizations and undertak-| for wars that take place within a
ings by virture of the fact that you have sunk your good hard | phase of general development in
eash into their program for the year. The question now arises as| history, When, however, discuss-
to whether or not you feel that you are getting your twenty |'"S War as one form of collision,
dollars out of the program. There is rio doubt that each student and this would be the pact with the
receives an overall twenty dollar value from his input. The] an important fact of the existence
Quips and Cranks alone costs over $10.00 for each copy. The | of the two extremes that caused this
issue now becomes, whether or not each student gets a fair re-
turn from each of the departments to which his money goes. It
is obvious that quite a few do not, and is equally apparent that
to reap this return, students have but to take advantege
of the programs already planned and set in motion.

Take, for example, the Artist Series, for which each student
has already paid four dollars. While you won’t find a half dozen
students who are willing to give this amount away to fellow room aski imply, “Would
students, yet to date 265 of our student body have in effect done |. in favor of a. Po ee of agnostic
this very thing by not getting their Concert Tickets and taking,| tectures in Chapel?’ Stunned at
advantage of them. These boys have donated over $1000 to pro- } first, I finally told him that I would
vide musical entertainment for the rest of the student body—en- } favor bringing believers in extreme
tertainment of the finest sort which they too could enjoy at no | 2°cttines to this campus for com.
additional cost whatsoever. pletely free, and volieve Cheval ie

Nor is this the whole story. Notice that no mention is made] either the time or the place to do
of missing athletic contests. Student passes, contrary to general) | it.
opinion, don’t come out of this twenty dollars. Every time you| 4" open forum committee of stu-
miss a Forensic debate, ignore a ‘Y’ activity, or east the DA-| ‘ets could sponsor such speakers

. . . once or twice a month at special
Aeteiialaeal aside unread, ,you are in effect wasting your own | jicnt meetings where attendance

.. would be entirely voluntary and

The $20 question is, how long are those who now pass up their | only those persons interested would
paid-for campus activities going to continue getting no benefit | have to go. A real live communist,
from their money. a welfare-state man (Socialist), an

This is a question that the DAVIDSONIAN cannot answer, admited agnostic, an arch liberal,

but it can say that in the meantime those who do support these | heard under their rest classifica-
activities really appreciate this kind donation toward their en- | tions, not masquerading as anything
tertainment and enjoyment—T. H. H. else.

Editor, The Davidsonian:
A freshman reporter of “The Da-
vidsonian” just stepped into my

“BIKO”

(By KURT BIEDENKOPF)

velation,
Revolution

and Results...”

By TOM ABEL)

tory conclusion,

The question has récently arisen
of having agnostic speakers
Chapel, I feel that perhaps a more
suitable time and place could be
found for such speakers than dur-
ing the compulsory Chapel period.
“You can lead a horse to wate-,
but you can’t make him drink,” as
the saying goes, trite as it is, and
I think it applies to this situation.
For one thing, having an agnostic
speaking in a place where atten-
dance is required just doesn’t make
sense. Any speaker, whether he
speak for agnosticism or religion,
should address a “voluntary” au-
dience, an audience that is at least
going to listen to him. And that
brings us straight to home.

I personally feel that the whole
matter of compulsory Chapel and
Vesper services is morally and in-
tellectually wrong. We go to Chapel
day after day after day, and al-
though we may not listen, on occa.
sion we are still receiving small
doses of religion, small doses that
tend to immunize us from ever
catching the whole “disease.” If
the idea of compulsory religion here
is to inoculate the student body of
this institution with so many small
doses of axiomatic, deadening
truths that we'll never really catch
fire in our beliefs, then that policy
has evidently and sadly succeeded,
On the other hand, if we personally
do not have the moral curiosity to
attend Church voluntarily, if we do
not have the intellectual curiosity to
go and listen to speakers of. diverse
opinions, then we are in the wrong
place. We ought to be out digging
ditches instead of wasting time in
college.

i

sf

FLICKER

Flashes

(By HUGH SWAN)

© * © Excellent
* * Good
® Fair
ee
Monday and Tuesday
“Red Light” starring George
Raft and Virginia Mayo plays. No
material was received on this pic-
ture, but the title and cast indicate
an entertaining picture.
s

Friday and Saturday

“East Side, Westside,” starring
Ava Gardner, Barbara Stanwyck,
Van Heflin and James Mason plays.
This picture is the story of a slick-
ster (James Mason) and his fight
within to be true to his wife (Bar-
bara Stanwyck). James loves wine,
women and song: but Barbara loves
only James, Through her physical
charms, Ava Gardner (the other
woman or James’ other wife) suc.
ceeds in luring James into the for-
bidden realm of infidelity. James’
infatuation for Ava destroys Bar-
bara’s love for him. Van Heflin
steps into the picture to free Bar
bara of her human bondage caused
by her own love for James, Van
becomes a close friend and a po-
tential husband, Ava is murdered,
James is involved and. Van solves
the murder. Barbara's life is direct.
ly affected. The outcome is start
ling.

e
Co-operation Needed
In Extra Activities

Fort Collins, Colo. (IP)—“The
average student should realize that
under today's educational standards
there are, in reality, two campuses-
in-one in every major institution
of ‘learning,’ according to Dean of

Students J. C. Clevenger of Colo-
rado Agricultural and Mechanical

‘| College. “There is a pressing need

to coordinate the activities of each,
so that every student will have a
balanced program,” he continued.
“Some of our students do not share
in enough extra curricular activities

I while others do too much.

“There is real educational worth
to be found in ‘out-of-class’ activ-
ities, as well as in classroom experi-

« A ence,” he declared, “and it is the

war in the first place. The compe- wish of the College to supply the
tition on the battlefields will only means of helping our students ob-
be one part, although the most de-/tain this value. It is our hope that
structive one, of the next fight be-| we can work out a system, the
tween the nations of this world. same as most ‘large colleges do. Ih
Added to this one factor will be|is only a matter of time and find-
the fight between the two exist-| ing the way to budget the addition-
ing setups of society, a fight, that! al expense. We should have a co-
very well may extend over a long| ordinator set up in the Student
range of time. It will, sometimes,| Union to help, advise, and co-
result in a few setup of society, but) ordinate all students and student
it is impossible to say when this! groups in their extra-curricular
will be, and whether or not the re-| cocial and activity programs.

sult will be satisfactory . “When it is finally accomplished,”
Tt is also impossible for us tolhe concluded, “we want the activ-

say or determine to which of thel ity office so complete that it will
two existing extremes this new So-| assist. the extra-curricular activity
ciety will be more similar, to the] program; including assisting in
capitalistic or the communistic one.| managing and auditing financial
We are too much involved in eithe: | matters of the various organized
one of them to give any objective groups on the campus.”

judgment as to which side would
be more desirable, at least we would
not be another factor, that will
probably have an important place
when the final decision will be
made. This factor is the Christian
religion.

The’ commumnistic society, as it
is existing right now in Russia, has
no place for a religion of any kind,
The state and its leaders are said
to be the final autharity not only
on state affairs but also on what is
moral law, what should be right

(Continued On Page Six)

{etter to the Editor

A Christian’s education in 1950 is
seriously lacking if he does not
know what some men believe who
disagree very sharply with him.

However, I believe, that to do this
in compulsary Chapel or Vespers
would not only be poor talk but
would be putting the stamp of Da-
vidson approval on things which are
diametrically opposed to everything
Davidson stands for. Though I be.
lieve she should grant her students
freedom to hear rival doctrines on
their own time, I think Davidson
has a perfect right as a Christian
College to indoctrinate us in the be.
liefs and practices upon which she
is built,

We need solely to develop an
awareness of the tremendous ideo-

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

“The Nature of the Enemy,” edi-
torial, Life, Feb. 25. :
“Is War With Rissia Inevitable?”
George F. Kennan, Reader’s Di-
gest, March, (Kennan is chief
formulator of our policy toward

Russia).

“Reading by Red Starlight.” John
MacCormac, Saturday Review of
Lit. Feb. 25.

“Objections to World Govern-
ment.” Elmer Davis, New Re.
public, Feb. 27,

“The First Fifty Years—a History
of the British Labor Party.”
Harold J. Laski, Nation, Feb. 25.

“Arns and the Germans—1950,”
Telford Taylor, Harper’s March.

“How to Live Better on 24 Hours
a Day.” Karin Roon, Reader’s Di-
est, March.

“Bach After Two Centuries,” Her-
bert Weinstock, Saturday Review
of Literature, Feb. 27.

“The World’s Health,” Michael M.
Davis, Nation, Feb. 25.

“When God Says No or Nothing,”
Ross Holman, Christian Herald,
March.

GUTHERY

OPINION POLL

(By PAUL GUTHERY)

QUESTION: Would you like to

logical and philosophical conflict | hear a series of Agnostics Lecture
now going on around us, but per-| jin Chapel?

haps a voluntary forum would be a For
more appropriate medium than com-| Against

pulsory Chapel—Malloy Owen.

78 Per Cent
mewcccenccnn 10 Per Cent
No Opinion ...... wwe 12 Per Cent

rh OF

J

‘ “N

The Valiant is an interesting play,
This critic has seen It three times
and it never fails to, amaze that
something so simple can be 30 deép-
ly moving and so dramatic ‘when
properly produced, For this reason
I was somewhat disappointed in
the rather uninspired performance
presented by the Masquers on
Monday evening, February 27, we
two notable exceptions, the acting
was only adequate. These two ex-
ceptions were: first, Bill Pharr, who
played Warden Holt, and second,
Tom Apperson, who appeared as
James Dyke. Mr. Pharr turned in
a creditable performance and one
felt that he was actually what he
was supposed to be, a warden, ex-
perienced, even callous, and yet
strangely disturbed at the actions

and attitudes of his unusual pris-

oner, James Dyke. This impression
is one not easy to convey; there-
fore Mr. Pharr’s efforts are de-
serying of commendation. Adverse-
ly, one could only say that he spoke
a little too fast. Mr, Apperson
played his role with intensity and
restrained power. Anything more
would have rendered it. melodra-
matic. Strangely wooden at times,
he nevertheless rose to a great
dramatic impact at the moment
when he bade his sister goodbye,
then sat down and spoke the ef-
fective lines ending with, “The
Valiant never taste of death but
once.” Regardiéss of the lines act-
ually written in the play, that
should have been his last speech.
Drama was rendered melodramatic
by his reiteration of this line as
he left the stage and also by the
priest’s line, “I know that my Re-
deemer liveth,” which, incidentally.
is not in the original play. This
interpolation and Mr. Apperson’s
reiteration tipped the balance and
somehow destroyed the dramatic ef-
fect of the play, After all—and to
be fair—the line between drama
and melodrama is subtle and hard
to define—The Valiant ended as a
good old = fashioned ‘“meller-

drammer.” However, the experi-
ment—that of bringing drama to
the Davidson stage—is commend-
able in every way, and with a be-
ginning effective in

spite of its

<)
ta

From the Mississippi State Re-
flector comes a tale of woe about
Feature Editor, Jim Peeples, who
says his goose is cooked with the
local lasses. Following his recent
article headed “Falsies Fix Flats;

erve as Pincushions,” one girl
stormed at him, “Do you consider
nothing Private?” The sweet young
thing went on to say, “We girls
receive questioning stares wherever
we go,” then hastened to add specu-
lations concerning Peeples’ prob.
able ancestry and suggestions of
where he should spend his posthu-
mous days. Withering under a blitz
of female tongue-lashing, Peeples
took hope when a particular female

A friend of his joined them. However

he soon found that his confidence
was misplacetl when the new mem-
ber of the group failed to take his
side of the argument. She promptly
remarked, ‘““Yes, what God has for-
gotten, we stuff witlf cotton,” and
added, “But it’s our own business,”
When another female joined the
conversation Peeples gave up all
hopes of getting in a word of self
defense and resigned himself to a
sound berating such as only the fe-

Review of :..
“THE VALIANT’ AND

“SUNDAY OOSTS FIVE PESOS”
(By HENRY E. HANSON)

faults, it is to be hoped that the
next production of the Masquers
will not be a comedy. Which com-.,
ment brings me to “Sunday.”
Sunday Costs Five*Pesos is ob- |
viously a hilarious play—at least, -
that is the way it affected me.
The cast, in toto, can only be
described as brilliant and someonc,
probably the director, Mr. Trotman,
did an inspired job of casting, Mr.
Smith, from his rollicking entry |
to his last line, “How grandioso,”
was wonderful. The flavor of his
accent eludes me, but the flavor of
his acting is in all respects pleasing.
As Berta, Dorothy Herring was
‘properly sultry, coy, pleading and
indignant, and all at the appro.
priate intervals, no mean accom-
plishment. We hope to see more of
Dorothy Herring. in future Masquer
productions. Mae Holly was spright-
ly and very effective in her role
of Salome. Her somewhat ill-fated
efforts at reconciliation via chi-
canery were carried off with dis-
tinction and the fight between her-
self and Miss Carter was, as Mae
knows only too well, realistic to the
point of being painful. Mary Wells
McNeill kept me in stitches. Her
part, I presume, was to provide
comic “accentuation” and it suc-
ceeded admirably, Her naturalness
is extremely refreshing, even includ-
ing the furtive and not so furtive
scratching after goodness knows
what on her person, And finally
Celestina, ‘played by Jessie Carter,
was excellent. Miss Carter is un-
deniably good to look upon and I
find it a relief to be able to mention
her superb performance in “Sun-
‘day.” Whatever her faults in John
Loves Mary, she has completely re-
deemed herself and once again the
credit must go to excellent casting
by Mr. Trotman, the able director
of this play. The setting itself was
excellent, Colorful and original, it
provided an excellent backdrop to
the excellent acting of an excellent
cast. Thanks again to Mr. Trotman.
In conclusion,’ The Valiant’ was
a noble experiment and I hope the
Masquers will try again with hap-
pier results, As for Sunday Costs

"Five Pesos, anytime the Masquers

wish to revive it, I'd like to be on
hand for the performance.

College Rags
in Brief

, . * (By BILL CUMMING)

male tongue can administer effec-
tively, Peeples says he will remain
ever grateful to a faculty member
who dispersed the belligerent group
with a few stern words. Stopping to
investigate the trouble, the faculty
member had demanded, “Well, all
right girls, if there’s something

bothering you, get it off your
chest.”
U.N.C. Gets New Dorm

The Daily Tar Heel reports the
passing of U.N.C,’s Quonset Huts.
The quonsets, which were erected
in 1946 as a temporary housing
measure, are being torn down to
make way for a new dormitory. The
State Legislature has appropriated
$1,000,000.00 for’ the new dorm
which will have 230 rooms includ.
ing social rooms. The appropriation
includes the cost of furnishing the
dormitory. Perhaps not without
touches of nostalgia and silent curs-
es, male students see the “tin cans”
torn down, says the Tar Heel. -
Thirty of the 36 huts on the Caro-
lina campus served for dormitory
space, housing 20 students each,
The others were used as shower-
toilet facilities and for study rooms.

Freedom and Catholicism

(Reprinted From Daily Tar Heel)

¢
By JOHN A. SULLIVAN

Last Sunday, February 12, the
Carolina Political Union discussed
the topic, “American Freedom and
Catholic Power.” This is in fact,
the title of a recent book by Paul
Blanshard, The discussion center-
ed on an analysis of the book and
its possible ramifications.

Blanshard’s book was based on
a series of twelve articles that he
wrote for the periodical, The Na.
tion, in 1947 and 1948, The book was
published in March of 1949,

It is Blanshard’s contention, as
stated in the prologue of his‘recent
work, that the Catholic church rep-
resents a threat to American de-
mocracy. He is more specific when

for the misuse of church power fa-
ther than the Catholic people. He
believes that the Catholic church is
extending its interests in the fields
of education, medicine, censorship,
science, and even foreign policy;
and by so doing, the church is en-
croaching on the American demo.
cratic way of life. To back up his
arguments Blanshard uses excerpts
from official Catholic publications,

Whether these charges are truc
or not is not half as important as
whether we in this country, a frec
people, can freely and openly dis-
cuss such a book. As would be ex-
pected this book has aroused violent
reactions from both Catholics and

(Continued On Page Six)
