Sandwiched _side-
ways between Business
Law and Johnson’s 71
we bucked these re-
view questions this
week,

(1) In the light of
Davidson's drive to get
out of the athletic
dumps, what twas the
: effect of the W.&L.

walloping on the minds
of those who stood idly
by and watched the
slaughter?

Drawing on conver-
* gation which we had
made mental notes of

after the game, we scratched on our paper: ‘‘They ‘were, along
with Coach Crowell Little, a bit disappointed in Davidson’s

FLEETS IN
PREEMAN'S OUT

Yildcat Sports | =- |

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1950

PAGE FOUR FOUR

LEET, CATS BOTI. 0M REBOUND

Though Still Not At Top Strength|KS Nips Phi Delts WILDC AT
Davidson Favored to Trim Erskine In Rugged Tussle WEEK

By BILL WHITE

By CHARLIE HAWKINS
When Davidson and Erskine match their football wits on

showing, but hardly were they as disappointed with the Wild-
eats as they were impressed by might of the forces that were
mustered under the two Generals.

‘W.&L. definitely showed that it has by far the strongest
team in the lower half of the loop, and that indeed it might well
give the bigger boys a fit. Add to that the post-game testimony
of Coach George Barclay that ‘this was our finest game of
the year,’ and keep in mind that it was coming from the coach-
whose team just missed beating heavily favored Virginia a
week earlier.’’

Pleased that ne knew the answer to the first one and hop-
ing that others would sanction our reply, we stepped before the
next barrel.

(2) Do you believe that the alumni after the game was
covered with a gloom of pessimism stemming from the thought
that no improvement had been wrought; the Cats were still
getting their teeth kicked in?

The notes popped back into mind readily on this one. Simply
reproduce post-supper conversation with an alumnus: ‘‘They
didn’t look too good, particularly on defense, but if ever David-
son was outmanned, it was today. I don’t suppose those boys
(Branch and MeNeely) being out helped you all any, either.
But I didn’t feel badly about the defeat. The offense looked
good from time to time—very good. The team was evidently
well coached and knew what it was going to do from one minute
to the next. And after recovering from the shock of those first
two touchdowns, they picked up in spirit and drove for seores.
That’s the kind of stuff these guys in the stands were looking
for—that old spirit revival. I certainly am not as down as I
was after last homecoming. I don’t know when I have ever
been as disgusted with a Davidson team as I was then. No, I
think we’ll play pretty good ball from here on out. I believe
that was the low point of the season this afternoon.”

Underlining the last sentence with a prayer, we went to
No. 3.

(3) What, in your opinion, are the chances of Davidson
(enrollment app. 850) switching the proverbial shoe and giving
W.&L. (enrollment app. 1250) the boot, say two or three years
hence? 1%

Uh. That was it with both barrels—his clincher. Thus the
stock treatment for such questions. Give him a few facts and
pad it with opinion. Now rack to remember .. .. the press box,
minutes after game time. A gentleman very closely associated
with Washington and Lee is speaking.

‘*You’ve got a darned good offense, there. Our blocking
was just mighty sharp this afternoon. But listen. You stick
with Crowell Little. Give him time and material, and he’ll do
the job for you. You said yourself you couldn’t ask for miracles
the first year. You just stick with Little.

‘You may not know it, but W.&L. practically flipped a
coin between Barclay and Little when we were in the market
several years ago. Yessir, I believe Davidson can go places with
that man.”’

That was all the quote worthy of note, so we flavored it
with some thought of our own. We wrote: ‘‘If the alumni saw
the need Saturday, Little needs only time; they -will supply the
material. It would’ be hard for them to have overlooked the
need if they took a healthy look at the size and depth of the
beef that the Generals corraled into Richardson Field’s pastures.
The old grads used the word ‘‘outmanned” plenty that evening.
It simply depends on how long they remember the outmanned
picture and how much it moves them to do something about it.”’

We closed the pen and read back over the paper to see
what we had said. In summary fashion, it seemed to attach im-
portance to the W.&L. game because it was before the Old Grads
had showed them hvhat we had—or what we didn’t have. It was
evident that the man they had picked as a coach is second to
none. The offense showed that. But, you can’t stop a freight
train with trickery. You've got to derail it, and it takes man
power to do it. Or, as Coach Little put it: ‘“You can’t catch a
bear with a switch.’’

Even if we flunk the review, swe learned the lesson. The
alumni should have, too. They sat in the same class with us
and watched the same lecture.

Team Statistics Individual Running
Davidson Opponents Carries Gain Loss Net Av.
25 ~—s First Downs, rush S2|Gregg 36 248 20 228 66
24 First Downs, pass 16] White 16 102 7 95 66
1 First Downs, pen. 1]Runyan 24 129 4 125 §2
$0 Total First Downs 79|Wade 12 46 6 4 32
585 Yards Rushing 1097} Leach 11 2 1 2B 28
596 Yards passing 401|Lambeth 29 74 47 #4227 #8
1181 Total Net Yards 2180 | Guiton 3 24 0 uw 80
87 Passes attempted 76 | Bower 2 5 0 § 25
47 Passes Completed 31] Stuart 1 2 0 2 20
3 Passes intercepted 6 —_——-
Fumbles Lost 7
23 Number Punts 20 Individual Passing
36.6 Punting Average 28.8 No. Comp. Int. Yds. TD.
37 -Yds. Punts Returned 193|Lambeth 74 43 6 S84 7
16 Number Penalties 25| Ruth 11 4 0 #97 1
136 Yards penalized 216! Peeler 2 0 0 a |

Richardson Field Saturday night, it will be a contest be
tween two football teams that have lost 3 games apiece, and it
will be a contest to determine if either team can come back from
the previous weekend's loss. Both teams will be more than eager
to get back on the winning side
after losing lop-sided affairs the 7
past week-end.

_ Erskine has beaten Catawba,
32-28, and East Tennessee, 12-7,

To Highlight Play

By WALLACE ABBOTT
The fourth week of intramural football, hampered some-
what by bad ‘weather, found very few of the top teams in action.
The league race was narrowed by the defeat of the Phi Delts
hy the Kappa Sigs, Tuesday in a rugged serap which cost the
Sigma’s John (Barnyard) Thompson, who dislocated his left

while losing one-sided games to
Wofford, Presbyterian, and East
Kentucky. The score of that game
was 56-0, and Erskine took both

a physical and moral beating. The
big question in the heart of every
true Erskine fan is whether or not

‘his favorite team can overcome the

after-effects of such a beating and
go on to beat Davidson.

Erskine runs from a regular “T”
formation with a few variations
and some “split T” options by the
quarterback. The Erskine quarter.
back, Dulumback is one of the lead-
ing ground-gainers in South Caro.
lina. This is quite a distinction,
with such ball carriers as Steve
Wadiak, Ray Mathews, and Jackie
Calvert to compete with. Dulum-
back throws passes left-handed, and
it is through him that the Erskine
squad has gained the reputation
thus far this season as a passing
team. The Erskine line, which took
a beating from East Kentucky last
week but also probably learned a
few things, is led by guards Bolin
and Macinsco. According to scout-
ing reports, their line is very big
and capable, probably much
heavier than that of the Wildcats.

As in the case of the Erskine
fan, the big question of the David-
son fan is whether or not the Cats
can shake their losing ways and
rebound for a win after last week’s
one-sided loss to a Washington and
Lee powerhouse. The Cats also
took a beating last week, but they
also probably profited by the ex-
perienée.

This week the Cats welcome
back to action Jack Branch and
Bill McNeely, a pair of big tackles.
This could well bolster the squad
since it is doubtful that first-string
tackle. Bill Freeman will be able
to play Saturday. The Cats will
be looking for still injured quarter-
back Jack Ruth to spell Auburn
Lambeth on occasions. His fine
passing and play calling set up one
touchdown against Washington and
Lee, and he scored the other one,
even though he hadn't practiced for
weeks. Speedsters A. C. Gregg and
Johnny Guiton, both of whom
showed well against the Generals,
will be set and ready for action, as
will be the powerful fullbacks Ham
Wade and C. L. Runyan. As for the
Davidson line, it will be the old
regulars Jim Fasul, Jerry Kiser,
Arnold Whisnant, Bob -Turk, and
Walter Oakes ready to match
Erskine’s forward wall and check
their backfield.

By comparative scores, David-
son's Wildcats are a healthy fa-
vorite. Also by past performances,
the Cats would get the nod, since
they came back from a Furman
loss to swamp Presbyterian earlier

in the season. However, records
disappear when the whistle blows,
and only tomorrow night’s game
will tell which has the best come-
back.

Davidson Erskine
Williams LE Parker
Davis LT Woolbright
Fasul LG Mancino
Whisnant Cc Cannon
Kiser RG Turpin
Pierce RT Sitton
Turk RE Deer
Lambeth QB Dulumback
Leach LH Mitchell
Gregg RH Cooper
Wade FB Neal
Individual Scoring -

TD EPA EP FG TP

Gregg 3 0 60 0 8
Turk 2 0 0 oO 12
Leach 2 8 2 0 8
Stuart 1 0 0 0 6
Lambeth 1 0 0 0 6
Guiton | 0 0 0 6
Runyan 1 3. 0 0 6
Wade 1 0 #0 0 6

HUSTLER — Little Johnny
Guiton came into his own
tough package of power to
stop with a splendid—if brief—
showing against Washington
and Lee last week-end. The
compact 15S0-pounder will in
all probability show a lot of
heel tomorrow night when Da-
vidson meets Erskine in
Richardson Field stadium.

Chesterfield
SPORTS QUIZ

1. Washington and Lee’s Generals,
with only Richmond and Vir-
ginia in their way this year,
stand to bag the Southern Con.
ference championship for the
first time since what year?

2. October 34th, a University
of Pennsylvania All-American
potential amassed a total of 490
yards to eclipse the old record
of 458 yards individual total of.
fense set by Hunchy Hoetn-
schemeyer of Indiana in 1943.
This one man show's name?

3. Davidson College’s classy pass.
er, Auburn Lambeth, needs how
many completions to add to
his collegiate record to enter the
select “200° circle of passers?

4. Florida's Gators fast week
knocked an undefeated team
from the list of national lead-
ers, despite two touchdown
tosses by the losers’ Bill Wade.
Wade's team?

Answers are to be turned in to
Dave Moylan, no later than Tues.

day following this publication. Win-.

ners will be announced next week.

Crushing Washington & Lee Attack

Too Much Might

For Smaller Cats

By DICK LYLES

Injury-ridden and lacking some of the spirit which has been

so prevalent on the team so far this season, the Red and Black
Wildeats of Crowell Little showed up‘badly for the Homecoming
crowd of 9,000 while absorbing a 47-12 licking in the hands of
George Barclay’s Washington and Lee Generals. The Generals

commanded a large lead through.
out the entire game by jumping at
the outset of the game to two quick
tallies.

W. and L. led by ‘Gen. Gil Bo-
cetti, has one of the largest, most
powerful grid teams in years. They
completely overpowered the Cats
with their smooth’ running, block-
ing, and passing. Meanwhile it
seemed almost impossible for Da-
vidson to stab the huge line and
gain on the ground, so as usual the
Cats took to the air with Captain
Auburn Lambeth completing 12
out of 23 tosses.

Lambeth quarterbacked, passed
and played defensively like the
splendid ballplayer he is. To a bevy
of receivers he tossed 23 passes,
12 of them were caught and went
for considerable gains, and several
more hit their mark, but -were
dropped. . Barclay, W. and_ L.'s
coach, remarked after the game
that he was glad he didn’t have to
face Lambeth again this year. Only
17 more completed passes and Au-

burn joins the ranks of the “200

Club.” He has completed 43 out
of 74 already this season.

Several miscues on covering the
kick receiver, led ‘to a quick T, D.
by the Gens as the game started.
From then on it was pretty much
an offensive game from the stand-
point of the visitors. The Cats put
on several drives and showed real
punch in the two touchdowns, It
was the second half that saw a re.
viving Davidson team make sever-
al sustained drives and fill the air
with passes. Hard luck and not
quite enough drive stalled most of
these drives short of their mark,
but proved that the spark was still
there. C. L. Runyan shone with
some hard-driving, ball-toting in
these drives. Runyan, injured from
the Citadel game, forgot his trou-
bles and smashed through the front
wall carrying a few with him.

The riddled line was backed up
superbly by George Nickels and

Jim Rogers. Also “Bull” Freeman
continued on his “bulling” ways
and racked down hard on Gil Bo.
cetti and crew. A C. Gregg, al-
though hurt, caught several passes
and ran well to keep up his stellar
performances. Little Johnny Gui-
ton came out of the ranks of the
unheralded and also turned in a
sparkling running show.

NOTICE

Contrary to notices on sche.
dule cards, in newspapers and
through other media, David-
son and Erskine will play in
Davidson on Richardson Field,
Saturday night at 8:00. Origin-
ally the game was slated for
2:00, but with the Wake For.
est-Clemson game slated for
Winston Salem the same after-
noon, the Cat-Fleet scrap was
moved to 8:00 so that the foot-
ball faithful of this area may
take in both games. The game
has never been scheduled for,
Charlotte, however. Davidson's
final home game next week
with VMI, is the second and
last Charlotte game.

shoulder.
Kappa Sige 38-ATO 6

The Kappa Sigs just couldn't be
stopped once they got rolling
against the ATO’s and the decisive-
ness of the score indicates it. They
scored on ‘almost every type of
play as they rolled up the season's
highest score. In the line Simmons
was outstanding while Spach and
Sloan shone in the backfield.

KA’s 18-Pi Kappes 6

The KA’s showed a variety of in-
dividual stars as they outfought the
PiKapps and won by a score of 18.
6. Instead of Bill Bird doing the
passing, it was T. W. Aldred and
he looked good in completing sev-

eral tosses. The PiKapps put up a.

terrific fight all the way but the
KA’s couldn’t be stopped. Bill Cas-
sels played an outstanding game
for the PiKapps.

SAE’s 12-Pikas 0

Despite a determined game by
the Pika line, the SAE’s were able
to gain a victory by the score of
12-0. It seemed that the SAE pass
defense was too strong all the way
through. Monty Hill alone intercep-
ted five passes. Both SAE tallies
came on passes by Jay Roberts.

Sigma Chi's 2.SPE’s 0

The Sigma Chi’s on the margin
of a safety were able to beat out
the SPE’s 2-0. It was Johnny Kel-
ton who led them to victory in a
very closely contested game. For
the SPE’s it was Jack Wilson who
played a sterling game.

PiKapps 20-ATO’s 0

With very little opposition to
hale them the PiKapps took the
measure of the ATO’s 20-0. The
ATO’s were unable to ever get
started from their T-formation. For
the PiKapps Bill Cassels played
his usual fine game, making one
particularly good catch for a touch
down. For the ATO's, Dick Har-
ris shone in the line.

Kappa Sigs SFD-Phi Delts 2FD

Behind the passing of Jim Sloan,
the Kappa Sigs were able to defeat
the Phi Delts 5-2. It was a very
rough game with several players
being hurt. The Phi Delt offensive
was sparked by the passing of Bill
Bacon and the receiving of Neil
Leach. Simmons was a defensive
rock for the Kappa Sigs.

Standings Through Wednesday

Wan Lost
Beta ...........-------.-- 4 1
KA  _.WWW nnn nee en nnn 4 1
KS 222 eee eee nen en 4 1
Sig Chi -...........-.-... 3 1
Phi Delts ...-....-....... 4 2
Pi Kapps ...--....-.------ 3 2
SAE .........-~---------- 2 2
Phi Gam ...........-.2--- 1 3
SPE ._.......-.~---.------ 1 4
Pikas ...........--------- 1 4
ATO ....122------2--- nen 0 6

Kitten Harriers Put Mark on. Line
Against Ptiefter This Afternoon

Davidson’s Freshman cross-coun-
try team victory parade went on
the line this afternoon in a return
match with Pfieffer Junior College.
The Kittens defeated Pfieffer in
the first meet at Davidson and
should take their measure again.

On Homecoming morning the
Wildkitten Harriers downed Lees-
McRae Junior College 24.36 for
their third straight win.

Bill Shipley, hailing from Ashe-
ville, lost for the first time this
season. First place was taken by

Lees-McRae, the time being 12
minutes and S seconds for the two
and one half mile course. Shipley
was second with Bill Coe right on
his heels to take third place. Fourth
place was taken by Lees-McRae
with Bob Graff, Paul Alexander
and John Holt taking fifth, sixth
and seventh respectively.

After the Pfieffer meet this week-
end the Kittens don’t meet anyone
until the slate meet is run in Ral-
eigh on November the 6th,

It's no news when an athlete has
failed to perform because he was
cut of shape. But it is a man-bites-
dog item when an_ unconilitioned
boy comes through in top shape
style.

That is the story of this week's
Wildcat of the Week—Jack Ruth.
Last Saturday, in his relief role for
Auburn Lambeth, Ruth quarter-
backed the Cats in some of tle
sharpest play series of the season,
and tossed for the second Cat touch-
down. In his brief role, he hit on
four of seven passes for 72 vards.

Ruth’s story this year has been
an in-again-out-again condition. A
kidney ailment knocked him out of
the Presbyterian game, .and after
returning to action against the Ci-
tadel, Jack was benched again by
the doctors and was even slated for
a trip to the hospital.

It was not until! Saturday morn-
ing that Ruth knew that he would

JACK RUTH

be able to play. Good conditioning
earlier in the season had kept well
through the two week layoff but
there was the lack of the feel of
the game for two weeks, and then
too a certain sluggishness should
have been inevitable.

His handoffs and pitchouts were
veiled in secrecy and his aerials
rivaled Auburn’s for cool accuracy.
Generaling both Cat scoring drives,
Ruth found Bob Turk in the end
zone for Davidson's second touch.
down. He also skippered the first
pay-off trip with Lambeth coming
in to make the toss for the TD.

It is probable that with Lambeth
on the injured list with a bruised
hip, Ruth will see plenty of ser-
vice tomorrow night against Ers-
kine. And it will hardly be a case
of the bat boy going to the plate
for the team slugger. Ruth has ex-
hibited a calm head, sure eye, and
deceptive arm in every appearance
to date, and if he anywhere near
approaches last Saturday’s show,
the Cats won't miss Auburn.

VISIT THE

DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT

“A GOOD PLACE
TO EAT”’

142 E. Morehead — Charlotte

