PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ---.-.---..-.----- aoeee- .---- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ..-..-.-.-----------<----- JOHN LOFTIN

EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editors ......-. .--. Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors —..... .... Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor .....-...---------------.-------------- Arnie Covell
Managing Editors —.-~-.---. .- Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams,

George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard

Sports Editor—Bill White Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin
City Editor—Nat Daniel Columnist—John Hobart

BUSINESS STAFF

Assistant Business Manager -..------- eenee ene nee ene .-.. Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ...----. ween ecnnnne nnn e nee Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ----.---------- ween en ene cnn nn ne-e . -Ansley Moses
Collections Manager ---------------------------- wee Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ~---..- een cc eeeenececenccceee------- Bill Hart

Platform - 1950-1951

In last week’s Davidsonian, an editorial stated that in the
immediate future, steps would be taken by the student leaders
of the Davidsonian to formulate a platform for the ensuing
school year. In the same editorial, students were asked to con-
tribute their ideas for making a better Davidson, ‘but the re-
sponse was disheartening to say the least.

Perhaps this is an indication that the majority of men here
at Davidson are satisfied »~vith the status quo and don’t desire
to see any changes made, but the Davidsonian feels that there
are certain areas in which improvement would be desirable and
herewith submits the platform which it has adopted for 1950-51:

ee

TIVE DAVIDSONIAN

Rush Week Forum

(Editor’s Note: This is the
second and last of our articles
on Rush Week from a purely
personal view. This week’s ar-
ticle is written vy Bill Klein.
President of the Pan Hellenic
,Council this year.)

First of all let me thank both the
fraternities and the new pledge
brothers for their cooperation dur-
ing rush week. Secondly let me
welcome the new men into the best
fraternity system in the country.

After reading Bill Bird's com-
ments on rush week it scems that
there is little remaining for. me to
say. Bill can much better evaluate
rush weck than I can since he
could view it from the outside, and
since he went through the same
thing last year. In my position I
coultl only notice the good points,
naturally ignoring the weak spots
and failures. Probably the best way
to evaluate the period is to look at
the results.

Two hundred and fifteen pledges
is a rather substantial number;
the majority of freshmen went fra-
ternity. This in itself is a pretty
good indication of the. success of
Rush Week. My only criticism is
that the pledges were not evenly
distributed. Some fraternities pled-
ged over twenty-five boys, crowd-
inte their boarding houses to the
limit; other fraternities pledged
less than twenty when they had
been hoping ‘for more. If in the
future some arrangement could be
made whereby the fraternity could
be certain of the number. of pled-
ges it would receive, a fraternity
would not have to be concerned
with the nuniber that might pledge.

Queens College has a system for
limiting the number of pledges

SS

what the writer expects. I con-
tend that vou will be unable to
eliminate dirty rushing completely
no matter what kind of system you
use. Whenever you have seven hun-
dred people involved in a ‘competi-
tive enterprise you just can't expect
everything .to run perfectly. Then.
too, it is quite a difficult job to
define rushing as well as to find
concrete proof that the fraternity
is guilty. So as far as dirty rush-
ing is criticized, IT feel that this
year’s rush period was as clean as
could be hoped for.

lL agree with Bill Bird in that
afternoon dates should be elimina-
ted. What little rushing that may
be done during the afternoon «does
not really help a fraternity; it more
often harms it because so many
brothers are unable to be at the
parties. Rush week this year was
definitely too long. T would even
recommend that next year it run
for only four days, starting on Tues-
day afternoon. This year everyone
was so tired by the time the day

of formal pledging came around.

that they had little interest in what
went on. Also, there won't be such
a plague of colds if everyone is
able to get that extra day of rest.

‘I believe that the great redeeming
virtue ‘of this rush period was the
split week idea. T think that it is
one thing that should be kept and
improved. upon. For one thing. the
fraternity. was able to concentrate
on those men whom it felt they
would want to pledge. By the mid-
dle of the week there are many
rushees that have already been eli-
minated, and who will no€ receive
a bid. These men are usually ignor-
ed the last days of rushing because
Uie brothers are trying to concen-
trate on the nien they want. There
is no worse -feeting in ‘the world’
than to be completely ignored in
a group of strangers while others
receive all the attention. By not
inviting these men back to the
fraternity house during the last
days of rush week, many feelings
are saved which otherwise might
be hurt. Secondly, the Campus
Club, which does not enter into
active rushing, is able to entertain
boys these last two days. This is a
definite help to this organization
which serves a vital need on the
campus.

If rush week is to function
smoothly, it is imperative that. the

(Continued On Page Five)

Music With Hansen

By HENRY HANSEN

1. To abolish the double-cut system. ; f .
which. next year's Pan-Helenic
oo. wae Council coulil do .well to study.
2. To change thé existing system of giving cuts. However, uncer this year's system,
: se it was impossible to determine the
3. To make Physical Training non-compulsory for number of pledges to expect. The
all seniors, regardless of their age. logical answer seemg to lie in
informal pledging.
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the There has been some talk about
dormitories and the college at large. dirty rushing going on during
® ° rush period, but F believe consider-
ation of this year’s program in light
5. To change the system of student body elec- of what happened last year, will
tions. prove that this year’s rushing was
. far more free of dirty rushing than
: : : last year’s when verbal pledges
6.. To have more varied and interesting chapel could he made, After reading the
programs and speakers. , editorial published in the last issue
of the Davidsonian, T wonder just
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will
improve a situation.
9. To advocate Sunday-night visitations to faculty Music, on the campts of David-
h son College ie expanding. its scope
omes. and deepening its power. To the
Davidson student this year will be
10. To urge the clarification of student regulations offered opportunities for hearing

to the student body.

This ten-point platform is the result of a great deal of
thinking by the editors of the paper and the President of the
Student Body who contributed to the planning. None of us
believes that it is all-inclusive for there are naturally certain.
areas which we could not invade.

As we said last week, we do not expect this platform to
meet with instantaneous approval amony the faculty and ad-
ministration and possibly the student body at first, and we
maintain that the Davidsonian will be gratified if even two
or three of the points are put into effect. In the interest of a
better Davidson was this platform conceived, and the Davidso-
nian pledges itself to push relentlessly fur the adoption of the
planks in it. ,

Accommodations for Dates

Ever since the Pan-Hellenie dances were moved to the cam-
pus last year, the problem of finding accommodations for dates
has been ever present and as yet unsolved. However, a step in
alleviating the situation was taken in the right direction this
week when it twas decided that Duke Dormitory would be va-
cnted by the students during the week-end to inake room for
girls.

; This plan, pushed by the Pan-Hellenic Council in coordina-
tion with Mrs. Little, Supervisor of the Dormtories, was op-

posed by only a handful of the students in Duke Darmitory.
They, of course, had their own reasons for opposing the move:
however, we must go along with the majority and commend
them for their unselfish decision. It will be an inconvenience
to them, true, but it avill likewise inconvenience students in
other dormitories with whom the Duke men will have to double-

ap. From no view-point is it a desirable move, but it was the
best that could be done under the cireumstances.

The lessons learned in the mild squabble over movine
students from Duke this year should be carefully considered by
those in authority over the matter next year, If it is necessary
to accommodate dates in one of the student dormitories on
dance week-ends—and there seems to be no other choice ut
present—it would be well for the administration to formulate
some definite policy to be followed in the future so that the stu-
dents in Duke will know exactly where they stand when they
signs up for a room in that dormitory.

music and participating in it in a
range far greater than was the
ease last. year or any year prior to
that. , ‘

The Davidson College Artist Se-
ries will present five concerts which
should prove to be of high merit.
The Cincinnati Symphony Orches-
tra which gave such a splendid per-
formance last year will be back.
The wondrous Shaw Chorale will
return with a program one feature
of which is certain to be a perfor-
mance near perfection in. choral
work. Miss Joan Hammond, who
made such an outstanding debut
in Charlotte fast year, will visit
the campus for the first time; her
concert ‘should be ‘really outstand-
ing. The band,. concert band, and
male chorus will again offer splen-
did opportunities to those who
‘wish to participate in music. And
finally,. the rich. and varied record.
collection in the Carnegie Tabrary
will offer the best to those who
ttierely wish to listen.

‘The Pavidson campus is not the
only place, however, where the
student can hear music. Each year
Charlotte has offered ever’ greater
delights to the music lover. It is
the main purpose of this article to
furnish information about one of
the phases of musical life which
Charlotte has to offer.

Last year our own director of
music here at the college, Mr. James
Christian Pfoht, became conductor
of the Charlotte Symphony Orches-
tra. The progress and excellence
of the orchestra up to that time had
been wavering. But through Mr.
Pfohl!’s gifts of organization and
musicianship the Charlotte Sym-
phony has been brought to a high
standard of performance. This

| opportunity

year’s series should present an or-
chestra accustomed to its conduc-
tor and he to it so that. we may
reasonably expect even better
things of the Charlotte Symphony.
Five regular concerts with three
guest artists will be presented this
year. These concerts come on Oct-
ober 24, November 21, January 30,
February 27 and April 10. In addi-
tion, and this testifies eloquently to
the present caliber of the orchestra,
it will appear both on the Winthrop
College and Davidson College ar-
tist series,

It is the hope of the writer that
there will be many who will be
interested in‘ purchasing season tic-
kets. These tickets are on sale now
in Mr. Pfolt's office. One other
thing should he mentioned in speak-
ing of the Charlotte Symphony Or-
chestra. Not only does it offer the
of hearing polished
performances of contemporary and
standard works but also it provides
the opportunity of seeing the -fin-
ished performance in the making,
of observing the arduous and fas-
cinating processes by which a per-
formance is produced, This last is
so because rehearsals of the sym-
phony are thrown open to those
who are interested. These open re-
chearsals are so interesting in them-
selves and -in the information they
furnish as to what makes an orches-
tra tick that it is hard to say which
one would rather see, the finished
performance or the rehearsals lead-
ing up to if.

The easiest solution is simply to
purchase a season ticket and see
both rehearsals and performances
For the Charlotte Symphony Or-
chestra undoubtedly provides an
opportunity unusual, perhaps uni-
que; no better apportunity exists
in this area for seeing an orchestra
in the fascinating preparation and
brilliant performance of the works
it plays.

a

DAVIDSONIAN’S PLATFORM

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

non-compulsory for all seniors

1. To abolish the double-cut system.
2. To change the existing system of giving cute.
3. To make Physical Training
regardicss of their age. .
4. To improve the telephone arrangements in the dormitories and
- the college at large.
5. To change the system of student body elections.
6. To have more varied and interesting chapel programs and
speakers. -
7. To give praise where praise is due.
8. To criticize when it is felt that criticism will improve a situation.
0 To advocate Sunday-night visitations to faculty homes.

xt

ody.

To urge the clarification of student regulations to the student

Howe Green

— THE —
Freshman Farse

It is the custom of every fresh-
man class to make its debut in col-
lege society at the haven for beau-
tiful women, Queens College. Whe-
ther this is yoluntary of manda-
tory is purely undecided.

As we look in on Howe Green in
the basement of Rumple Saturday
‘afternoon, we find Heavey's gift to
the freshman class busily prepar-
ing to make the annual pilgrimage
to the “get-nequainted dance.” At
this moment there is a knock at the
door, and he hears the familiar
voice of Hoopy Davis say: ‘*Are
you about ready, Mr. Green? With
name-tag on his coat lapel and cap
carefully placed on his head, Howe
opens the door and says, “Yes, sir,
Judge, I'm ready.” “Your limosine
awaits you, Mr. Green,” answers
Hoopy. He tenderly escorts the
young man to a waiting pink Cadil-
lac convertible, chauffeured by
Johnny Kelton, who steps out and
opens the reat door. Hoopy takes
the arm of the young gentleman
and helps him. into the car, Ina
moment the sleek convertible
speeding toward Charlotte.

Beautiful minutes of peace and
comfort fly by and soon the shiny
car enters the spacious grounds of
Queens ‘College. Howe
escorted into the middle
the grand ballroom floor by Judge
Davis who tells him to be sure and
have a good time and then departs.
Frightened+by the sight of so many
beautiful women, “Howe retreats
quickly into a corner, Anxious mo-
ments later a devastatingly beauti-.
ful, sexy woman approaclies him
witht delightful nonchaiance. “You
iook Jonely, good-looking. Wotld
vou care td dance?” Flowe protests,
“Pm not a very good dancer,” a»
she, leads him ont on the floor.
Snuggling up close, she begins to
hum softly. “Isn't Harry James’
music romantic,” she whispers. “Yes,
ma'am,” gulps Howe.

As the musie stops, the bewitch-
ing queen grasps Howe's hand and
starts for the door. ‘‘Wouldn’t you
like for me to shaw you the cam-
pus?” she wistfully inquires’ “Its
beautifsl at night.’ “But it'S so
dark outside. How can we see?”
trembles Howe. “We'll get along.”
she murnrurs and clasps his hand
a little tighter.

Pointing out buildings on each
side, the beautiful girl skillfully
draws the young man along the
path. As they pass a bench under
a tree, she sits down and says, “let’s
talk a little while?’ Howe timidly
sits down on the end of the altogeth-
er too- short bench, but soon she is
snuggling up close. “Do you know
what T would like to do,” she whis-
pers? “No, but 1 can imagine,” he
shudders. ,

When Judge Davis’ blows his
whistle a moment later to assem-
ble his children for the return
trip. he Js startled when Freshman
Howe Green rushes up and bugs
his neck glecfully.

ts

—Archiball Elamenbash

Draft. Notice

As most of you ‘know, Colonel |
Ballard had an editorial in the*Da-|;

vidsonian” this week on the draft
situation, under the National Se-
lective Service Act. On Saturday
morning, a change. on one point of
information in that editorial was re-
ceived from the State Director of
Selective Service. The editorial said
that only students in the apper half
of their academic class were cligi-
ble to have their inductions post-
poned until the close of the school
year. However, now any student,
ROTC or not, A grades-or D
grades, will not be inducted during

the academic year, that is, until next
June, At that time, however, stu-
dents in the lower half of their
class and who have been classified
1-A-P may be promptly inducted.
Students in this classification may
not enlist in any other than the
Army service but are subject to the
Army draft. Students in the upper
half of their class and who have
been classified 2-A are also subject
to induction after the close of the
academic year. Students in this
classification, however, may volun-
teer for other Services, provided
this is accomplished before the call
to report for induction is received.

It should be pointed out that
granting of deferments, to be ad-
ministered by the Military Depart-
ment, has no relationship to any-
thing just said. Further word on all
of this will appear in the next is-
sue of the Davidsonian.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1950

The World Last Week

Occupational controls in Berlin will soon be eased by order

phase ‘of the Marshall Plan.

its annual conterence, is gearing

important road center in

since if contains the “seeds of a

a severe summer drought, Yugo-

1,
of the Allied High Commission.

2. The East German Republic is reported to have joined the Eco-
nomic Mutuat Aid Council, a

3. The British I:abor Party, at
itself for another attempt at a big parliamentary majority.

4. Onan order from the U. S. Eighth Army, South Koreans crossed
into North Korea on Sunday, October 1.

§. The Egyptian cabinet has votéd to spend eight and a half mil-
ion. on purchasing arms.

6 French forces have occupied an
North Indo-China.

7. Prime Minister Néhru of India has requested that the Korean
war not be carried too far,
mighty conflict.”

8. Suffering from the effects of
slavia is sceking help from the United States.

9. Three million Aniericans have received bigger pension checks
under the new Social Security system.

10.

Risiig prices are endangering the expansion of the Air Force.

Geech’s .

Goulash

By PAT. McGEACHY

First of all. a hearty welcome to
our fellow travelers, as they re-
hoard, “The Good Ship O° Zion.”
We may have lost a few fortunatés
overboard, and we may jiave gain-
ed an assortment of fourth class
passengers at our last port. but by
and large. things appear relative-
ly ship-shape and familiar. The
Captain's welcommg speech has
touched off another lap i our
venture. Tally. ho! and all that
sort of thing.

To. thase -of us to whom falls

the ignoble task of scrtitiny ‘and/

polish, in reference to brass-work,
there comes a wave of blissful in-
dignation. Ta Arms! The grime of
ignorance and. prejudice tarnishes
the ‘sacred fixtures. It is to us that
falls the task of scourging the left-
ist from. our hallowéd midst, so
that our. vessel may shine before
men, _

In more basic Eaglish, the above
metapheéric hodge-padge attempts
to, sav that this celumn will be
produced. in a liberal, ‘Platonic,
Democratic, Capitalistic, and Theis-
tic fasition, for the lrigh calling of
the obliteration of imperfection
from the Davidson atmosphere. Any
and. all advice and criticism will
be welcomed. Little of it will be.
followed, to be snre, but never
scorned, If, therefore, you wish to
air your views, do not hesitate to
correspond with this pot-pourri of
curious denunciations.

The year, of course. is yet young
for the formation of violent opin-
ions, so let us reserve this first vol-
ume for a brief word of encourage-
ment for the days to come. This is
intentfed as a caution to those to

whom ‘Davidson is ,new, but can
also serve as a reminder to all who
are connected with the college.

This will only take one sentence
Davidson College is a good thing!
In the columns of the college pub-
lications, from the stage of the
auditorium, and in bull sessions,
you will observe a great deal of
criticism and griping.. Do not be
alarmed. This is a good thing. No
institution is perfect, and of course
Davidson would be the last to
claim perfection. She needs criti-
cism, for She needs to be improving
always; change occurs and She
must change with it. The people
who gripe do not hate Davidson;
they love her. Otherwise they would
not be here. It is because they love
her that they criticise. They want
to see her even better, and they
probably will,

If Davidson is not like it was
when Dad was here, it has not de-
generated, it has changed. I. re-
member a faculty member saying
that the Davidson ‘Spirit was not
dead, simply different. College lias
changed cverywhere. It is our own
optimistic opinion that most. stu-
dents have come to realize that
there is more to college than horse-~
play. Young Anietica is more ser-
ious minded, and more liberal.
Things are not as bad as they have
been, and with a little encourage-
nient they will get better.

Now this is a very optimistic
point of view, perhaps a little too
much so, but for gosh sakes some-
hody better be optimistic or we'll
all go nuts. Which, on the other
hand, might not be a bad idea.

f.
ana

Stadent Club
University of Miami
Coral Gables, Fla,

&?

Meeting the gang to discuss a quiz

—a date with the campus queen—or

just killing time between classes—
the University of Miami Student
Club is one of the favorite places for
a rendezvous. At the Student Club,
as in university campus haunts
everywhere, a frosty bottle of
Coca-Cola is always on hand for the
pause that refreshes—Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF CONCORD

© 1950, The Coca-Cola Compony

