THE DAVIDSONIAN ; FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1950

PAGE SIX
3 i ’ i low cost of
CONCERNING RELIGION ® ! ® FINDING ACTRESSES... repair and fuel expenses. They can cause of the relatively >
t d d at] gasoline and the wide use of pri- YOU Gol
(Continued From Page Two) Dr. Morrison Ss Life , (Continued From Page One) ron Horse Through, operate on steeper grades and at |gasoline and the WHEREVER

smoke.

High initial costs of converting] —Patronize Our Advertisere—=
from steam to electricity is one of
the main drawbacks, the drticle de-
clares, and therefore such conver-
sion should be considered only when
the density of traffic reaches cer-
tain levels. Electrification, never-
theless, is a good choice in such
situations as suburban and short
distance lines.

Leading the world in electrifica-
tion of, railroads are the USSR,
Sweden, Italy, Switzerland and
France. The use of diesel power

in the USA. where one-fiftl of the Charlotte Waffle Shop

in which this religion operates,
whereby it regiments and limits
academic freedom, not to mention
critical inquiry into religious mat-
ters,

It is difficult to see wherein this
religion differs much from a totali-
tarianism. A religion that sets up
restrictions to a man’s religious
life (and if it restricts religion it
usually goes on to restrict other
phases of tife) has of necessity to
set up some system for dominating
its constituency, because only as it
dominates can it survive.

There is a third type of reli-
gion that is not to be confused with

; pealing to collegians. It was listed . °
Outlined In Chapel among the productions of over sev- Rail Experts Claim
en hundred dramatic groups last

The life of Dr. Robert Hall Mor- | YF. Lake Success, .N. Y. x The old
rison, the first president of David- ‘iron Horse” is coming down wi
son College was sketched by Dr.| CATTAILS ... a case of technological heaves, Unit-
Cunningham in a chape! address, (Continued From Page Four) [ed Nations railway experts be-
Tuesday morning. policies, and part of the blame may | lieve,

Dr. Morrison was born near | be given to the sports’ managers for} Electricity and other modern
Concord of Scotch descent. He was | not making these regulations known | railway power sources are forcing
a graduate of the University of | t© their respective groups. him. into permanent pasture, mem-
North Carolina. When Davidson| As we see it, the only way to cor-| bers of the Transport Division of
College was founded in 1837, Dr. | rect the situation is a thorough go-| the U. N. Economic Commission for

Europe (ECE) indicate in an arti-

ing-over of all related matters by
cle published here in the U, N.

Morrison accepted the job as first |! ; a
president. An early plan was to have the fraternity representatives and

Transport and Communications
Review.

students work on the campus but the director of fraternity athletics
Even the eye-catching appear-

Remember this seal — it’s
your assurance of the best!

this policy was soon abandoned, as|@nd the drawing up of rules cover-
the tools consistently disappeared.| ing every conceivable point of dis-

the other two. It is identified by| Dr, Morrison’s leadership at David-| a&teement or uncertainty in the! ance of the old locomotive raises gross ton-miles of freight traffic ‘ACROSS FROM THE BUMING CORNER”
its commitment to a supreme and son was of short duration as he| Program as it exists today. doubts for the experts. is hauled by diese! engines. Elec-
“The romantic billowing clouds ‘trification in the USA may have ON WEST TRADE STREET

living God. This religion asserts | retired in 1840 due to poor health.
that nothing on this earth can] During his short term, his Christian
completely comprehend or adequate: | ideals and principles greatly helped
ly represent God. Creeds, dogma,|to shape the Davidson of today.
doctrines, etc., can only partially
incorporate into their structures } an
the meaning and significance of Oooo Viran Pege Two) Charlotte — An officer of the
God, because God is inexhaustible. ( ¢ elemen law aided a prisoner to violate a
God has never had his picture| ment. the supply of elementary | jaw — the Employment Security
taken, and He is not to be con- teachers might become such that] Taw of North Carolina — but, as
fused with preachers, theologians, | Keen competition would develop. | usual; patience of the Federal Bu-
professors, or any ecclesiastic. Strong competition _for high reau of Investigation brought re-
E iall this religion is school teaching positions is expected | sults after five years, and the vio-
ssentially, s gion | sin the country as a whole for the | ator is now behind prison bars.
prophetic. Like the prophets’, it is! st few years at least. However, This was the case of George C.
a religion of reform and Soohema the distribution of teachers both by| Jones, of Lenoir, ‘a veteran, who
At would counteract the blasp sade locality and by subject field is| was permitted to go, on five occa-
of confusing God with man-made | such that some schools suffer short- sions, to the employment' office in
contrivances. It exerts its, criticism ages while others have many ap-| Lenoir to allow the prisoner to sign
on all forms of religion. Yothing plicants for each job, With few ex-| claims for unemployment benefits
human is exempt from “var eae ceptions, shortages are now limited] under the Servicemen’s Readjust-
The institutional church, tified to rural areas and such special sub-| ment Allowance Program. As a re-
ample, even though it is reentiie ject fields as home economics, The} suit, the veteran drew five checks
in some circles as the tain 0 greatest oversupply in most States | of $20 each, to which he was not
of God, has oe esoteric aim "lis in men’s physical education, the entitled, since he was in no sense
the power of . a. * ile is tie, soctal sciences, and English. avaiable for work while serving a
at has no ‘Nolin Pot ‘the “grace of| It is likely that education and| 30-day sentence in jait for public
eh to hom 5 will. It can only experience requirements will be drunkenness. ; ;
bear witness, issuing a call to re- raised in line with the prewar Judge Wilson Warlick, in Fed-
entance and exhorting men to be| rend. Students taking training for! eral Court here last week, sentenc-
penvay to the working of God in high school teaching should plan to|ed Jones to 10 months in Federal
tne human heart Everything hu- | set a master’s degree in order to| Prison, remarking that he was re-
man is finite: ‘everything finite in| @ualify for the best employment] ducing the sentence some because
, 1 | Opportunities. Jones had Been in prison awaiting
Enrollments in grades 9 to 12[trial for about two months.
are expected to decline until about} Jones, the records show, began
1952. Therefore, the need for high| filing claims for Servicemen’s Re-
school teachers will be limited] adjustment Allowances in October,
largely to replacements for the next| 1944, and.filed claims and drew al-
few years. After 1952, enrollments] lowance checks to March 6, 1945.
will probably rise slowly for the| Then, it was revealed in court, he
following three years and then in-| had left the State. Also, about that
crease rapidly into the 1960's. time the’ FBI began looking . for
Over the 1Y90 decade, close to| him on the charge of drawing al-
85,000 new teachers may be needed | lowances to which he was not en-
to handle increased enrollments. In
addition, from -17,000 to 20,000 re-

lagged, the article indicates, be-

MONDAY BEGINS
OUR LAST WEEK

We Have BARGAINS NOW ... But Come To See
- What We Will Have During Our Last Week

of soot and steam”, the article says,
“mean nothing more than that the
greater part of the energy con-
tained in coal is blown back into
the atmosphere without effect.”
Furthermore, the smoke is dirty.

Electrification has many advan-
tages over steam and, in most situa-
tions all over the world, over diesel
engines and turbines, the experts
declare. They add that “once ato-
mic energy has reached .the posi-
tion where it can deliver very cheap
electric current, the majority of the
world’s qailways may beconie elec-
trified.”

The electrified railways, the ar-
ticle points out, have lower oper-
ating costs than steam and lower

end

AAA dAAAAAAA

Prisoner Violates
Law Under Escort!

titled. Jones returned to North
Carolina about two months ago and
was picked up promptly on the
fraud charge and placed in jail.
Records of the Employment Se-
curity Commission reveal that Jones
had signed claims for unemploy-
ment benefits for the weeks end-
ing January 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30, dur-
ing which time it developed that he
was serving the 30-day jail sentence
im the Caldwell County jail. The
prison guard either allowed him to
go alone, or accompanied him, to
the Lenoir employment office to
allow him to sign the claims each
week. At any rate, the claims inter-
viewer taking the claims had no
intimation that Jones was serving
the term while filing claims for
benefits. Information is that the
prison guard who allowed Jones to
visit the employment office has
since died. ‘

You Can’t Afford To Miss The Last
Week Of Our

CLOSING OUT SALE
Wrenn’s Men's Shop

MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N. C.

°

some way is distorted of its rea
significance, meaning, and purpose.

Now to answer the question! The.
religion that has the most in com-
mon with higher education is the
third type, because this type cham-
pions the cause of higher education
and the things for which it stands.
As with higher education, it is not
hostile to free inquiry and the
critical temper. Now, by critical
temper I don’t mean cynicism or
skepticism, but rather a healthy in-

uisitiveness that continually asks] * .
questions in order to know and| Placements may be required each

understand. With Jesus, this re-| 3° during the 1950’s. However,
ligion believes that the truth shall unless high school enrollments are
set you free. It is convinced of the considerably greater than seems
wisdom of keeping all propositions probabie on the basis of past trends,
. sas Saleen a training rate as high as that in
open to investigation, inquiry and ‘
research. In its desire to be at 1949 would continue to produce an
least intellectually respectable, it oversupply- of secondary school

: oe wes achers even in the years of
says that a man’s religion, politics, teachers need y
science, etc., are not a closed book | ® °

with the final facts in print. It| aan TELEPHONE’ . .

“knows that .new facts and ideas :
are being born each day and that (Continued From Page Two)

they can be used, so long as they| [talian opera. Its brevity and_ its
contribute to man’s clearer under-| appeal determined the decision to
standing of himself, human experi-| give it as a chapel program for
ence, and man’s relation with God. | all to hear. To reiterate, be prompt

Furthermore, this religion seeks| and quiet. If these requests are
to orient, interpret, and integrate | observed two things will be proved:
human experience so that men can| first, the verity of all that has
enter into relation with the deepest | been said about the humor of “The
and most powerful forces of lite.| Telephone,” and second, the fact
Only in this way can it save a|that the long preparation and -the
man from fanaticism and obscuran-| faith, in spite of dire predictions,
tism. in the attentiveness and apprecia-

However, it would always warn| tion of _the student body has not
men of their propensities to self-| been misplaced.

deception and the infirmities of the
flesh to which they are so suscepti- Rent a New Car at
SCARBROUGH

JANE WYATT
) | Famous Barnard Alumna says: .

**Chesterfields always give me a lift.
They’re wonderfully mild and they taste
we + $0 good. They’re my favorite cigarette.”

ble. It reminds men that they are
not as smart as they think, and
that, as Paul says, “... the weak-
ness of God is stronger than men

- . » « the foolishness of God is Prewar Rates STARRING IN .
wiser than mén.” Special Rates on { “HOUSE BY THE RIVER”
Just as much as education needs Long Trips Ap REPUBLIC PICTURE
religion, so religion needs educa- DRIVE IT YOURSELF. Inc.
tion. Religion will have to be more 212 W. 4th Bt. ? 43 .
educational, if it is going to ask ° A
education to be more religious. Phone 3-4513 sanvann cousoe

Ralph’ Sockman says that it's a
wonder more college student’s don’t
lose their religion, particularly when
the only prayer they have learned
is, “Now I lay me down to sleep
... ”" "Tis true that religion has
too often flogged the will instead
of feeding the mind. A parochial
religion seems out of place amid
the vastness and interdependence of
the universe, not to mention the
sphere of higher education. The
new insights of the sciences and
Philosophy will not shake the
foundations of a deep religious
faith; they will only serve as means
to a greater appreciation of and
sensitivity to the working of God
in human history.

There need be no enmity be-
tween religion and higher -educa-
tion. Both aze fighting for decency,
justice, and freedom. They know
the threat of authoritarianism. And
they both are aware of the fact that
a patient and tender cultivation of
the healthy aspects of religious
faith will be a saving power of our
civilization,

Mooresville Ice
Cream Company
MAKERS OF

DeluxelceCream
Mooresville, N.C.

Ley ay SU ECTE REIT

Theyre MULDERS Theyre TOPS -f sr rex rae wn soon

WITH THE HOLLYWOOD STARS

VISIT THE

DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT

Copyright 1950, Licorsr & Myveas Tossceo Co

142 EB. Morehsead — Charlotte "By Recent National Survey °

