PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONTAN

ta

FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF GORDON SCOTT

BUSINESS MANAGER
EDITORIAL STAFF

Associate Editors —.--..------ ‘ Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall

Senior Editors Bill Cumming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister

Features Editor .--~.- pace een ene n eee neneeeee ne eee n= .- Arnie Covell

Managing Editors ....-----. Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams,

George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard

Sports Editor—Bill White
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
City Editor—Nat Daniel

BUSINESS STAFF

wameenoren

Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin
Columnist—John Hobart

‘Assistant Business Manager --..--..--------------------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager -..------------ oe wnc ones Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .----..---.------ .-------------+-- -Ansley Moses
Collections Manager --..-------------------------------- Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager ----.--.-~-.---------~--------------- Bill Hart

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897

PRINTED BY DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Davidson, North Carolina

Important Committee Appointed

Recently we were informed that Dr. Cunningham authoriz-
ed the appointment of a. faculty, committee to study faculty-stu-

JOHN LOFTIN |"

the name and nature of the day nar-

when one class officer suggested

College Rags

.....IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

At George Washington U. ink will
flow like wine and be free besides,
thanks to AUBIS (All-University
Benevolent Ink Society). Annoyed
at having to pay the oppressive fee
of one cent to have their pens fill-
ed in the library, members of the
AUBIS banded together and con-
tributed a dime each in order to
present the library with two gallons
of free ink. The ink will be dis-
pensed without charge to students:
in the library who find themselves
with dry pens during the pursuit of
their studies. Each member of the
AUBIS who contributed as much
as a dime to the fund was automat-
ically made a vice-president.

Last Friday was barefoot day fot
seniors at the University of North
Carolina. According to tradition
Tar Heel lads and lasses of the
graduating class at Carolina go
minus footwear throughout one
whole day of Senior Week. The
DAILY TAR HEEL reports that.

rowly escaped a drastic change

that the day be Cilled “Beerfoot
Day* because big things were brew-
ing. It was further proposed that
members of the class make their
way about the campus with beer
cans lashed to their feet; however
this motion was quickly snuffed

dent relations. The committee is composed of Professors John-
ston, Puckett, Godcharles, Abernathy and Dean Bailey. Al-.
though it is not known whether there were any specific reasons
for the President's action, it is known that he learned of the for-
mation of a similar group at Princeton and felt that it was

worthy of duplication on the Davidson campus. Whatever his
reasons may have been..we are in full aceord with Dr. Cunning-

hams action and feel that perhaps a long-felt need will be satis-
factorily coped with here.

The committee is little more than a week old so there have
been no definite steps taken or has any specific plan been adopt-
ed. The study of this group Will be a comprehensive one, explor-
ing conditions in every phase of student-faculty relations. It
will cover relations in the classroom as well in every conceivable
area of extracurricular activities. The task is tremendous and
there is no foreseeable end to the areas which the group may
tap, but it is a step in the right direction + one that will meet
with the approval of every student.

For years Davidson has been widely advertised as a liberal

-arts college in which there are close ties among faeulty and stu-
dent body. This is of course to some extent still true, but the in-
creased size of the student body since the war has had an affect
for the worse on this Davidson ‘‘tradition.’’ There is, of course,
no outward show of animosity among the two groups on the
campus, but there are few students here today who would state
that student-faculty relations at Davidson are what’ they believed
they were when they came to Davidson. Wherein lies the fault?
We can’t answer that but feel certain that the newly established
committee will go all out in an effort to better this situation,
among the countless others that they will explore.

The student body can help in this work. The committee
is free for suggestions, criticisms and recommendations — in
fact they are desirous of having them. It is to be hoped that
the committee will have open discussions with students to air
any views and ideas which they may have because without such
discussions student hody participation and interest in the work
of the group will probably be kept at a minimum.

The committee was appointed as a temporary one to study
the situation thoroughly and then make a full report. We hope
that in making their final report (which will probably be some
time next year) they will recommend the formation of a perma-
nent Committee on Student-Faculty relations that will have as
one of its duties periodic discussions among representatives of
the student body at large and the committee. It goes without
saying that any forum in which the students are given opportu-
nity to express their views would minimize criticism of the
Administration and contribute to a better Davidson.

In Re: Paul Horne”

To our way of thinking, one of the most significant parts of
the Annual Awards day. last Tuesday was the reading by Dr.
Cunningham of a faculty-prepared citation'to student store man-
ager Paul Horne. In singling out Horne for his outstanding ser-
vice during the past year the faculty passed the following reso-
lution during their May 2, 1950, meeting: ‘‘The Faculty and
Administrative Staff of Davidson College recognize the service
rendered to the College and to the Student Body by Mr. Paul A.
Horne in his capacity as manager of the Student Store. During
the past eighteen months he has helped to reorganize and to
manage this store on a business-like basis. In doing this work he
has given his time and his energy in an unselfish. manner, and
he has earned the respect and good will of all his associates.
The Faculty and Administrative Staff wish to assure Mr. Horne
of their high esteem for him as an individual and of their ap-
preciation for the excellent work he has done.”

Certainly no one connected with the college during the past
year deserves recognition any more than Paul. His has been a
hard job. It was his responsibility to institute a new system of
running the student store amid grumblings among the students
that the ‘‘open-shelf” system was the only practical way to run
the Stud and that the new plan was a slap at the Honor System.
There may still be some conjecture as to whether the Honor
System has been undermined, but no one can complain that the
present setup in the Stud hasn’t been satisfactory. For the suc-
cess of the Student Store this year, Paul alone must receive
the credit. The efficient way in which he handled his staff and
the long hours he put in each day at the Stud have paid off
handsomely. No longer is the Stud a financial thorn in the
Administration’s side but is now a profit-making enterprise.

The Faculty made a wise move in recognizing Paul’s efforts.
We wholeheartedly endorse this well-earned resolution and feel
syre that we speak for the entire student body in expressing ap-
preciation to Paul for a job well done.

out.

has to be of a particular variety.
The football team of the University
of Arkansas is in the market for a
genuine
the capacity of mascot at the com-
ing grid season.

cently announced a widespread re-
volt of fraternity -fledglings.
maxing two weeks of pledge re-
taliation, members of SAE, KA,
Kappa Sig, Sigma Chi, Phi Delt,
and Reta fraternities received im-

campus police were called out. Dur-
ing the dunking days one Phi Delt
was kayoed in the house chapter
room while trying to make a geta-
way, Elsewhere on the campus an
unfortunate grid star was marched
to the pool singing “Glory to Old
Georgia.”

Letters To
The Editor

Open Letter to the Editor:

number of its members to petition
Alpha Tau Omega national frater-

it was originally conceived.

principles stated in Article I of its

Wanted: One Hog. But this hog

“Razorback” to serve: in

‘The DUKE CHRONICLE re-
Cli-

ersions in a campus pool until

In spite of the recent. move by a

nity, The Campus Club will con-
tinue to function in the ‘future: as

. The Campus Club stands on the

Constitution; ’

“Realizing the necessity of an
adequate and broad social life in
the development of strong char-
acter and wholesome personality,
we, the members of the Campus
Club, have established as our pur-
pose the creation of a medium of
fellowship for non-fraternity men
on the Davidson campus. By pro-
viding greater opportunity for
these men to participate ‘in ath-
letic, social and humanitarian activ-
ities, we shall strive to encourage
the physical, social, and. spiritual
growth of all Campus Club mem-
bers, in addition to promoting their
general scholastic progress. We
believe that the vitality of the
Campus Club, and its effectiveness
in achieving these purposes, rests
essentially in its autonomous, un-
exclusive, inexpensive, and wholly
democratic nature. As members of
the Campus Club, we are pledged
at all times to uphold and en-

hance the great name of Davidson | in

College.”

The Campus Club will continue
to forward its regular program for
non-fraternity men, of participa-
tion in social, athletic, and hu-
manitarian activities on the David-
son campus. It will remain inex-
pensive financially and will continue
to offer membership to every man
at Davidson who desires to become
a member.

We have written this open let-
ter in order to clarify the position
of the Campus Club and to clear up
any doubts which may have arisen

among the student body in regard to

the future status of the Campus
Club and its policies and, purposes
for existence on the Davidson
campus,
The Members
Campus Club.
DAVID DECK,
President.
May 9, 1950
To the Editor of the Davidsonian:
Dear Sir:
It has been brought to my atten-
tion that the purpose of a college

of the

REVIEW OF ...

On May 4‘and 5 the Red anil
Black Masquers presented nbs
Man Who Came To Dinner,”
Hart and ‘Kaufntan. This was um
doubtedly the best play the Mas-
quers have done this season.

The set itself was excellent. And
the cast, nimbering twenty-nine, a
heretoforé unheard of number on
the Davidson stage, was of an ex-
cellence which gave the lie to the
old excuse of not being able to pro-
duce a play because the cast is “too
large,” Everyone in this mammoth
production was competent or even
better . Dorothy Herring and Bill
Hollister as Maggie Cutler and
Bert Jefferson were singularly un
convincing in their early scenes in
the play but warmed to their parts
as théy continued. Maggie’s ‘out
burst at Sheridan was entirely con-
vincing and Bert's drunk scene was
Bacchic to the core. As for Mr.
Trotman, he was, expectedly, won-
derful in his role, but there seemed
to be some spark, some ‘subtle

“quality lacking jn his performance.
‘It niight be said that his own con-

ception of the role and his playing
of it was beyond him. Neverthe-
less, he turned in a top notch per-
formance over the sustained period

of time and. it is doubtful whether

anyone else could have done as
well.

Particularly outstanding were
Howard Proctor's Beverly Carlton
and Wylie Sinith’s Ranjo. Proctor
gave, in my opinion, the best: per-
formance of the evening. He was
English but not too English, in that
half subtle. half blatant way typi-

“Y” Fund--

As we all know, last Friday
morning in chapel, Neal Teach, re-
cently clected president of the
YMCA, announced that a commis-
sion formed by amiting the “Y”
cabinet, together with student body
and class officers, had met and
voted unanimously to devote the
YMCA: gift fund for 1950-1951 to
help the ‘Cown of Davidson carry.
out its long-delayed program of
Negro housing, Hé announced that
a more detailed plan for the use of
the gift fund would be outlined at
a town meeting, which was held
the following Monday night.

So it was that the citizens of the
Town of Davidson heard the fol-
lowing report from the, committee
formed to investigate and do some-

thing about the living conditions of }

low-income families; — especially
aniong the Negroes in this com-
niunity :

The Town of Davidson, in co-
operation’ with and through. the
faculties of the Piedmont Bank
and Trust Co, wonld secure
through gifts and surety bonds the
difference between the minimum
amount the bank is allowed to fend
on the value of the property, and
the cost of the home, but not to
exceed 90 per cent of the total cost
of the new home, with that total
cost not to exceed $3,000. In other
words, the bank makes a regular
loan of 60 per cent from its own
funds with the property as securi-
ty; the home-owner furnishes 10
per cent of the ameunt, either in
cash or through ownership of a
suitable lot, and the security for
the remaining 40 per cent would be
first the ‘Y’ fund, and-as a double
safety, the surety honds signed
by the townspeople in Addition to
their contribution.

Incidentally, $6,000 worth of those

The Man Who Came ge —e,

To Dinner
By HENRY E. HANSEN

-

L lis

cal of the English music hall dra-
matist of the Noel Coward variety.
Mr. Smith carried his role, and Miss
Preen, with great aplomb. Mary
Wells McNeil as Miss Preen was
uproarious — she is a born comic,
her subtlest movement invokes
belly laughs and her not so subtle
ones can produce absolute prostra-
tion.

As for the rest of the cast, well,
they were all good — Mrs. Henge-
veld, Mae Holly, Professor Erwin
superbly himself, Vance Mizelle
with his mercuric accent — and the
audience was well repaid for the
time and the money invested.

As for the direction, with a cast
so large, it is evident that a tre-
mendous job was done by’ Nancy
Copeland. In the face of many dif-
ficulties, she managed somehow to
turn her cast, large and sometimes
balky, into a smoothly functioning
machine, one which turned in the
most commendable performance of
the year.

This year has*been an eventful
one for the Masquers. Replete with
fresh talent, they have brought their
productions to a high pitch of ex-
cellence. Congratulations to the
Masquers. And let me close with a
challenge. How about doing the
same thing with drama next year
that has been done so successfully
with comedy this year. There no
longer remains any serious reason
why the Masquers cannot do drama
as well as they have done comedy
The talent is available, the num-
bers are available. So, in the com-
ing year, let's have some drama!

By NAT DANIEL

bonds are already in the bank, so
that the loan plan can. go into

action’ immediately without waiting |.

for collection of the ‘Y’ fund.

Now here's where the student
body ‘fits ‘into the picture: The
‘Y’ gift fund for next year will be
supplemented by a collection taken
up among the citizens of the town.
Then this entire amount will be
turned into government bonds
(which pay 24% per cent interest)
and placed in escrow at the bank,
to be used as that part of the col-
lateral on new houses’ not covered
by the property itself on a regular
bank loan. After all the loans on
houses built @r bought under this
plan have been reduced to a reg-
ular bank loan (60 per cent of the
value of the property), then the
total amount in the bank will be
put to some useful purpose in the
community. If, however, some
of the mortgages have to be
foreclosed and the sale of the prop-
erty does not cover the debt, the
difference will come front either
the interest or the principal of the
money which is held by the bank.
If the plan collapses completely,
and the “Y” fund is used up, then
those citizens who have signed the
surety bonds would be assessed on
a pro rate basis according to the
amont they have pledged.

In looking over the situation, it
seems to us that it is very unlikely
that the plan will fail at all, and
the ‘Y' gift fund will actually serve
a double purpose.

In the first place, the citizens of
the town, both white and colored
are backing the plan to the hilt,
and already work has started. The
committee itself has financed the
construction of a new house for
John Heath, and Dr. George B.
Watts is building two houses which

education is not only “book-larn-
‘,” but even more important, pre-
‘paration for us to live intelligent,
useful lives as good citizens of the
city, state, and country of tomor-
row. Of course, much can be said
about our national election system
and the obvious evils of politics,
but this is (and will be) the situa-
tion we shall have to abide by in
our future careers after college. In
view of this, our present system of
student-body officer selection is
wrong, It’s a “Polyannaish” hang:
over of a by-gone time of a “rose
colored glasses”
small group, it might work, but ev-
en in a group our size, it is com-
pletely inadeqnate to fulfill its in-
tended purpose. I happen to know
that a sensible amendment has been
drawn up and sent to the student
council that would correct this sit-
uation to a large degree, but will
anything come of it?

The average Davidson student
will) say, “Why change anything?
Everything's gonna’ be all right . .
If we'll just take it easy ol’ D. C.
will keep on rotking along in her
own way. These Frosh and Sophs

type. In a very]. .

usually gripe about something or
other, but pretty soon they accept
things as they are, too.”

Sure, force these thinking stu-
dents into our own deep ruts. Why
should they have convictions and
thoughts that are so radical, i. e,,
different from “traditional” lines
of thinking. We can subjugate most
of them, but there are a few who'll
keep their beliefs, and they will
be made to feel so out of place and
unliked that they won’t be around
for long. Why should we be up to
date? Let's just stay where we are
. it was good enough — years
ago, so it ought to be OK now.
What a way to think! Maybe we
should all go out and get a coat
with a belt in the back, huh- Let’s
keep abreast of the times — pro-
gress marches on; and right past
tis! Whether we stay this way. or
move forward, is all up to us, the
student body.

—Phil Davis

The rarest European postage
stamp, a Swedish — error-variety
worth $30,000, is owned by Ro-
mania’s ex-King Carol IT.

Over The Past Week:

a

1. President Truman on his cross-country tour let fly at isolationist

measures—appealed for support of the Brannan Farm Program of
agricultural subsidy.

oeoet
2. United Nations Secretary Trygve Lie reported that world powers
were so busy fighting the “cold war,” that 1,600,000,000 people are being
neglected, hungry and povery stricken.
ooo
$. Prime Minister Leaquat Ali of Pakistan seconded Prime Minis-
ter Jawaharlal Nehru of India in voting thumbs down on former U. S,
President Herbert Hoover’s proposal to reorganize the United Nations,
leaving out the Communists.
oeeoeesrs
4. The fight’ began in the Senate, led by the present Administra-
tion in Washington, to establish a Fair Employment Practice Commis-
sion (FEPC)—despite any filibuster attempts by Southern Democrats.

eooe¢ ¢ &

5. The Supreme Court upheld the Taft-Hartley Law requirement
of a non-Communist oath as 100 per cent constitutional.
eee 8 6
6. The Western Allies, five years after Germany's defeat, instigated
a law, incorporating some of the older measures, designed to prevent
German re-armament.
oer es
7. The Soviet Government has accepted a plan for Berlin city
elections, but only under certain conditions, according to a letter sent
to Western Allied Commandants by Russian authorities.
eoeerte
8. British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin made it clear, that
although France may ask for U. S. aid to Indo-China at the forth-
coming foreign ministers’ conference, Britain will not ask for aid to
Malaya.
oeoeetes
9. General Chiang Kai-shek stated that only immediate U, S. aid
to his Nationalists can prevent World War III from starting in the
Orient.
eoeese
10. Dr. V. Matchek, former Veep of Yugoslavia, asserted that
the Tito-Stalin split was primarily designed to be a “tactic maneuver”
to promote. not Democracy, but long-term die-hard Communism.

are to be sold to deserving and| Infidelity is given as the cause
needy colored families, Secondly,| only in about 8 per cent of Ameri-
the committee carefully screens| can divorces.

every applicant, and only those able} The Celtic languages are spoken
to meet its standards are eligible] by about 3,500,000 people.

to come under the plan.

Anyone who attended the meet-
ing Monday night will agree that
the spirit of cooperation among
the Negroes and whites was re
markable, as several of the town's
Negro citizens, in speaking for
the whole group, expressed thei:
willingness to do all within their
power to make better living con-
in Davidson become a

VISIT THE

DRIVE IN RESTAURANT

ditions
reality.

Irving Stubbs, chairman of the
‘Y’ gift fund committee, has asked
that seniors who wish to aid ma-
terially in this plan, either leave
their contributions with him before
they go, or make plans to mail it in
next year while the regular cam-
paign is under way.

To get an idea of what is going
on already, why not take a walk
some Sunday afternoon over toward

142 E. Morehsead — Charlotte

GRADE “A” MILE
the colored: school, by John Heath's PASTEURIZED
new house. The work going on

there will be pleasantly surprising Daily Delivery
and next Christmas, with our help, PHONE 205
become an outward manifestation

of the second great Commandment,
“Love thy neighbor as thyself.”

MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Grend Ropids Room
University, Michigen
(Aan Arbor)

In Ann Arbor, the Grand Rapids
Room on the campus is a favorite
student gathering spot. In the
Grand Rapids Room—Coca-Cola
is the favorite drink. With the
college crowd at the University of
Michigan, as with every crowd—
Coke belongs.

Ask for it either way ... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca Cola Bottling Co. Concord, N. 0.

© 1950, The Cese-Cele Company

n

°
we me
ere COE ees eet see es tee owe

a
