PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER --. .-... BILL HOUCK
EDITORIAL STAFF .
Chief Associate Editor ..-.-..---..------- = ---- Doug Hix
Chief Associate Editor . —_— ---.---.. Lonnie Turnipseed
Chief Associate Editor .-..----.-.-.------------------- Jack Ha
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,

Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim- Murray, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.
Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-
Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling. .
City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
. BUSINESS STAPF .

Assistant Business Manager ----.--------------—------- Billi Cassells
Advertising Managers -------------~- 8 ew nee Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager---..--..-...--------------~---~-------- Huffaker
Asst. Circulation Managers Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ...........--......----------------- John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager ....... won----------. Alex Goley

PRINTED BY .
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY
Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

In Appreciation . . .

We take this opportunity to let the ‘“‘Y’’ know that its
Monday morning devotionals are becoming, to our way of think-
ing, more and more meaningful.

The idea—new to Chapel devotionals—of using ¢ disem-
bodied voiee to convey a message and thereby concentrate the
listener’s attention on what is being said rather than who is
saying it or how it is put across—succeeds in uniting the student
body’s interest in a religious exercise as few chapel programs
ever have.

Recently one of the. most effective of this new type of
devotional was presented. Tom Langford and the ‘‘Y’’ may
well be proud of the program of January 16.

Again the Y.M.C.A. proves that it is wide awake in bring-
ing to the campus Rev. Charles Jones of Chapel Hill for a stu-
dent faculty forum on the pertinent subject of race relations.
In undertaking this project, the ‘‘Y’’ is utilizing a procedure
long overlooked as a means by which student interest can be
activated. This procedure is that of centering projects of this
nature about a nucleus of twenty, forty, or fifty students, rather
than making an attempt—as has been done so many times in
the past—to include the entire student body in every venture
undertaken by any of the campus organizations.

The ‘‘Y’’ has set the other societies and groups on our
campus an excellent example.

New Athletic Program .. .

The Athletic Department has come up with a very fine
program for the student body. We refer to the new basket sys-
tem of issuing gym clothes to the entire student body. Any
student may now draw complete gym equipment upon request
at the gym. T-shirt, shorts, jersey, supporters, and socks are
given each student aith a clean towel in his basket. The basket
is kept in the equipment room and may be drawn out at any
time by the student. Plenty of locker space is available in the
dressing room and a combination lock is provided with each
basket. Many students have already taken advantage of this
new plan and all others should avail themselves of the facilities.

The basketball courts are open for students at any time.
Also the pool is being used daily during pool hours, and the
new handball courts are prcving to be a popular spot. The
handball game itself is fast becoming a favorite sport on the
campus and possibly tournaments may be arranged later on.

The whole set up in the new gym is catching the popular
support which it merits and the athletic department should re-
ceive a big pat on the back for its efforts.

The college has long realized the need for such an athletic
program for the student body, but has always been hampered
by a lack of facilities. Now the program is here and the stu-
dents are already showing their long desires for athletics and
recreational activities —J. H.

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor: .
During my two and one-half years here at Davidson College a gap
in the variety of intellectual stimulation offered to the students has x

come steadily more apparent. Throughout each school year numerous
speakers are heard in Chapel, in Vespers, on the college lecture series,

and in other organizational meetings about the campus, yet, oddly, none |

is ever heard advocating strongly, or even mildly, any principles which
could possibly be construed as contravening either Christianity or
Capitalism. Yet a merely perfunctory reading of any daliy newspaper
or any one of several recent magazine articles will readily show how
many people believe in and avocate strongly principles directly opposed
to those upon which Christianity and Capitalism are founded. Why is
none of them ever heard on the Davidson College campus?

Please understand that I am in no wise preaching overthrow of
the ideas for which the college stands, nor am I criticizing its right to
attempt to indoctrinate its students in whatever ways of thinking it may
choose. It is merely that Davidson adverises itself as a Liberal Arts
College, and one of the avowed purposes of such an institution is to
educate its students so as to enable them to cope efficiently with the
complex problems to be met in the cruel world “outside.” Yet how
possibly can that purpose be well served by the careful, even meticulous,
exclusion from our ears of the arguments of one side of two of today's
most controversial problems?

My suggestion as to a means by which this gap could be filled is a
series of forums, possibly held under the sponsorship of ‘the college, or
some student organization, to which speakers would be invited who
take a stand opposite to that generally propounded now on our campus.
These forums could perhaps take the form of debates between speakers
or merely discussions to which the public would be invited. They would
not benefit those who came only to deride openly, nor those who came
only to applaud secretly, but would benefit those who came with an open
mind to hear a logical presentation of the “opposition,” so to speak.

Let’s hear some comment on this! |

RICHARD E. HARRIS.

THE DAVIDSONIAN '

Hodding Carter...

I have just come across a bleak
fact—or figure—which may have
the same relationship to the States’
Rights cause as Appomattox had to
the Confederacy.

Government money, including
payments to farmers, make up al-
most 22 per cent of the South’s
total income.

Maybe this is already known to
everyone but me. But I have nev-
er heard it mentioned by any of
the spokesmen who demand a re-
turn to the states of all rights and
responsibilities not expressly dele-
gated to the Federal Government.

It has been a good many years
since I read the Constitution close-
ly. I am quite sure, however, that
it contains no clause which pro-
vides that the Federal Government
should come up with two bits out
of every dollar that finds its way
into and out of. my pockets.

The only thing to do, obviously,
is to return such monies already re-
ceived and to refuse any further
federal money,

Probably the easiest way to start
would be for every Southern farm-
er to demand an end to farm bene-
fits of .all kinds, since farm pay-
ments represent considerably more
than. half of the total amount re-
ceived, That would make our farm-
ers independent of outside "itflu-
ence and safe from the dangers of
centralized government. What
would happen to their farms is an-
other matter and not germane.

The principal agricultural benefi-
ciaries of such resoluteness would,
of course, de the cotton farmer. In-
stead of producing too much cotton
two years out of three, they would-
n't produce any cotton at all, and
thus would relieve the glutted mar-
ket. Then they would be free to
get jobs in the rayon industry.

Next in line would be the states.
Those which border the Mississip-
pi river should make the first ges-

Book Notes

By TOM

“The Red Shoes,” from J. Arthur
Rank’s British studios and easily
one of the ‘best’ of recent years, is
back in Charlotte again, held over
this week at the Visulite.

It is the story of Lemontov, a
ballet impresario, Vicki, a dancer,
and Peter, a composer, who togeth-
er create “The Ballet of the Red
Shoes,” taken from a fairytale by
Hans Christian Andersen. In the
ballet an enchanter-shoemaker
makes a pair of red shoes. A young
girl falls in love with them, puts
them on, dancing through the night
with her lover at a carnival. But
when morning comes and she is
tired, she finds that she still nvust
dance. Once put on, the magic
shoes will never let her stop.
She escapes the power of the shoe-
maker only by dying in the arms of
a priest.

We soon realize that the ballet
itself is the story of Lemontov,
Vicki and Peter. For Vicki “to live
is to dance” and Lemontov; who
can make her one of the world’s

ON STATES’ RIGHTS

ture of renunciation. No more flood
control project payrolls. No more
flood control. The resultant floods
would be helpful for they would
again spread over the entire lower
Mississippi valley, the nation’s top-
soil which is now being discharged
in the Gulf of Mexico, where it is
of no use to anyone.

Highway funds would also be re-

turned, together with the salaries
of all Southerners on the federal
payroll — except possibly within
the District of Columbia — all
allotments for hospitals, education-
al facilities, military expenditures,
and national
parks. The postal service, however,

pensions, bonuses,

would be left intact.

Such action, would be Spartan,
but it would return the government
to the states, where it belongs, and
the states to the Indians whose ob-

jections could be overruled.

I am sure that I can get every
Southern political leader, especially
those from the cotton belt, to back
this program. All of us know that
the South must.balance its agricul-
ture with industry. We've been try-
ing to accomplish this by increas-
ing our industrial income until it
matches our agricultural income,
This way would be easier. By
eliminating farm benefits, we'd re-
duce agricultural income to that of

our industrial income.

The money thus saved could be
then used to complete the rehabili-
tation of Lurope without additional
taxes. Additionally, thé costs of na-
tional defense would be reduced,
since the Southern perimeter would
have’ no economic value and could

therefore be abandoned.

And to this new world wilderness
would emigrate resolute pioneers,
dedicated to the psinciples of local
self-government and to hell with a
federal bribe of 22 cents on the dol-

lar.
~—The Atlanta Journal.

PRUFER
....- THE RED SHOES

great dancers, is the magician of
the red shoes. But she and Peter
fall deeply in love and she cannot
have both him and the dance. She
chooses Peter, but the magic of
the red shoes draws her kxck to
Lemontov. At the end the red
shoes are cut off her feet just as
they were earlier on the stage when

she danced “the girl.”

Vicki is a tragic heroine, caught
between two persons and two kinds
of lives, both demanding uncom-
promisingly everything from her.
The part is superbly played by
Moira Scherer, who can act as well
as she can dance. The character
Parts and the photography, especigl-

of
the Riviera, are excellent. In all as-
pects the production is outstanding
and

ly the shots of the dances and

for subtlety, sensitivity

strength.

This is the second and probably
the last showing in Charlotte, so
don’t miss the last chance to see a
really definitive job of movie-mak-

Juvenile Delinquency .. .

By GABRIEL LOWE

It seems to be the consensus of
opinion among the newspaper
psychiatrists and psychologists that
the blame for the high rate of ju-
venile delinquency in this country
fi should fall on
the heads of par-
ents and the old-
er generation
collectively. It is
' pointed out that

Ss they set a poor
example for
their children,

A and that is quite

h i. true. Parents
Gabriel Lowe talk about the
way teenagers drive automobiles,
but there are few adults who can
set examples of sober, attentive,
skillful driving for their young pro-
teges to copy, as evidenced by the
land-office business conducted by
traffic courts and highway patrol-
men. Parents deplore teenagers
drinking, forgetting that it was they
who began the trend in the wild
and wooly, and much-publicized,
1920's. Parents are shocked by the
interest in and knowledge of sex
which their children show, and by
the liberties of petting which their
children sometimes indulge in. Yet
they hail books like “Forever Am-
ber” as “best sellers”; they smear
sex all over the “best” magazines
and the front pages of the newspa-
pers; they enjoy it in movies and on
the stage. And Still they expect
their children, who are young, alert,

t 4 ‘

and curious, to remain in dismal
ignorance of the facts of life until
they choose to enlighten them,
which in all too many cases is nev-
er.

The second indictment against
parents is that they do not spend

enough time with their children.

and that, too, is quite true. They
complain that their children do not
have old-time parties at

when there is nothing else to do is
more realistic than we like to ad-
mit. Many mothers work outside
of the home, largely to prevent
boredom, taking them away from
their children and denying the chil-
dren much home training that
would stand them in good stead.

From all these considerations one
can build a strong case to show
that parents are to blame for ju-
venile delinquency. But not all the
blame can rightfully be placed on
them. The real source of the prob-
lem lies much deeper than just
parents. Indeed, parents are almost
as much a product of the problem
as their children are. For the real
root of the problem of juvenile de-
linquency lies in the fact that the
world has outrun the social and
moral standards that ‘we set for

home,
which they used to enjoy so much.
But the home is no longer the in-
stitution of family life that it for-
merly was, thanks to the movies,
professional sports, and. especially
the automobile. The joke about
home becoming the place to go

many another problem that

SBiko

By KURT BIEDENKOPF

A few days ago I got hold of a
copy of the American Legion Mag-
azine and I found an article, titled
“What the Germans really think.”

™ Two reporters
had tried to find
out the real

opinion of the
German __ people
towards the oc-
cupation troops,
the military ad-
ministration and
in general, tow-
ards the former
enemies of Ger-

PA

Biedenkopf
many.

The opinion of the two reporters
was, that this could be done best
by travelling through Germany as
Germans (both spoke very good
German and had been in Germany
before). They would then hear the
actual thoughts expressed and thus
get a very true and objective pic-
ture of the German mind as it real-
ly was.

So true all this is; but in my
opinion, as the article shows to me,
both men made one great mistake.
They went to nightclubs and to
places where no American soldiers
were found. They asked the girl
friend of an American officer and
a farmer in Bavaria, of whom one
of the two, as a secret service man,
had been sent to prison five years
before, for hiding weapons and am-
munition. Thus they only learned
about a very small section of the
people and their opinion, and they
forgot that there was a far greater
percentage, that thought entirely
differently and whose viewpoint
was in no way similar to that of
the people whom they- had asked.
They had made a mistake, that I
myself am very afraid to make
whenever I write about my impres-
sions of this country and its peo-
ple. They had generalized the. opin-
ions of a few men and women and
made them standards for all the
rest of the people.

This, however, must lead every-
body to a complete misunderstand-
ing of the situation as it really is.
It must create an absolute wrong
picture.

Writing about a country and de-
scribing its people, their characters
and their ways of life is one of the
most difficult and, you. may even
say, dangerous tasks for a reporter
or newsman. Only too easily one
misjudges his impressions, gener-
alizes them and creates in other
people’s minds a wrong picture; or,
more than that, in our case it may
even amount to suspicion and dis-
appointment.

Through this mistake, they made,
the American reporters got the im-
pression of the German mind to be
thinking about any possible way to
fight and mislead the occupation
troops, to be absolutely disinclined
to accept anything that is brought
to it by the Americans and is con-
nected with the ideas of democracy,
to try to find any way of building
up a new strong Germany and fight
a new war.

.I, as a German, of course, can-
not possibly have any absolute ob-
jective viewpoint concefning my
own home country, But even apply-
ing the greatest objectiveness I may
say, that this is not the fact. The
wrong picture they gave is not the
fault of the two reporters; I am
(Continued On Page Four)

it. We are still trying to fit a Vic-
torian standard to an age in which
men travel faster than the speed of
sound, in which there is a car in
every garage, in which recreation
has become a vicarious pastime, in
which that government is best
which governs most.

How is it possible to reconcile
the Ten Commandments to the hy-
drogen bomb? Yet that is what we
are trying to do by clinging to the
old rules of behavior in a super-
fast machine-atomic age and de-
ploring any departure from them.

“But the solution is not to be found

in a more radical social and moral
standard, as many are trying to
show. That course leads only to
corruption of the race, degenera-
tion and ultimate destruction. It is
time that this generation began to
take stock of itself to see just what
it wants and what it believes in.
We need to abandon our inordi-
nate worship of industry and what
we like to call progress, lest in
gaining wealth and comfort we
lose our souls. We need to stop
playing up the sensuous and seedy
side of life as being mysterious and
exciting and look at it in its proper
relationship with the other sides of
life, test our excesses lead to our
own degeneration. This is the solu-
tion to juvenile delinquency and to
dogs
our bewildered society.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1950

FUZZY FIZZES...

By CHARLIE DAVIS

Why is information on the rela-
tive sums allotted at Davidson for
the various kinds of scholarships
and the various extra-curricular ac-

tivities “not available?”
7 @¢@

~ What is the
new Davidson
College _ policy

toward football?

- = Is the adminis-
bd 4 3) tration willing to
~~ ’ comment on it?

ed . oe
& OF the yearly
L income of the
_> Living Endow-
Charlie Davis ment Fund

(normally thirty thousand, a goal
this year of filty thousand) at
least one-third must be earmarked
Athletic Department. Is it true that
football scholarships will be the
keynote and chief object of this
year’s drive?

Only seventy-five hundred dol-
lars per year are used to buy new
books and magazines for the li-
brary. How much is spent in main-
tenance of athletic fields?

eee

What is the proportionate basis’

on which Davidson, presumably a
liberal arts college, formulates its
budget?

All these questions furnish food
for thought. So do excerpts from
an article in the last “Christian Cen-
tury” entitled “Colleges in a Mo-
ral Fog”:

“Football has led the American:

college deeper and deeper:into a
mdral fog in which it is now lost.
Claiming competence to prepare its
students for upright, intelligent liv-
ing, the college is itself involved
in such a tangle of moral evasions,
compromises and downright sur-
renders that it is jeered at by the
sporting world at large and its
ethical pretensions are laughed at
by its own undergraduates. The
plight in which the college stands
was brought pitilessly into the open
at the meeting of the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association last
month. An effort made there to dis-
cipline seven schools for admitted
violations of the ‘sanity code’ adopt-
ed two years before broke down,
largely because too many of the
colleges. in the NCEA were not
willing to punish the seven con-
fessed sinners for doing what most
of them were doing but managing
to cover up.
ens

“Johns Hopkins seems to be
about the only widely known cal-
lege in’ the country which has
shown courage enough to deal with
the issue which has thrown the
NCAA fora loss. It has not fol-
lowed the example of the Univer-
sity of Chicago and Loyola of Chi-
cago by dropping football alto-
gether. But it has put its finger on
the nub of the problem, which is
that honest amateur, sport and com-
petition for big fipancial returns
can-not go hand in ‘hand. Johns
Hopkins has extricated itself from
any moral dilemma by one simple
act. It has abolished all gate re-
ceipts and guarantees for visiting
teams. When Johns Hopkins teams

visit other colleges to play, they
pay their own . travel expenses.
When other college teams visit
Johns Hopkins, they do the same.
Spectators at Johns Hopkins games
enter free. Students who play on
Johns Hopkins teams—and from
68 to 90 per cent participate in
some form of athletics, the propor-
tion varying with the season — do
so because they want to, and their
sole reward is in the fun of play-
ing and the physical *development
it may bring. Incidentally, Johns
Hopkins teams, competing against
teams from colleges of approxi-
mately the same size which are
willing to forego money _ returns,
win a fair percentage of their
games. They have been doing this
for fifteen years at the Baltimore
college, and as a result Johns Hop-
kins students, athletes as well as
grinds, are students.
ore

“Why is no one expecting the
church colleges to undertake the
task of moral rescue? The church
colleges are always talking about
what a peculiar and vital contribu-
tion they have to make in applying
the moral and ethical insights of
religion to the processes of higher
education. How many hundred
church-college presidents do you
suppose have been inducted ‘with
an inaugural address on “The Need
for the Church College as a Source
of Ethical Guidance to the Nation,”
or something very similar? Here is |
an ethical problem right in the
church college’s lap; where is all
that moral insight and leadership?
The church-related colleges have
an association of their own, and |
many of the denominations have
college associations. In the aggre-
gate, these must include a majori-
ty of all the colleges in the country,
or dt least a minority of such size
that its actions would have great
weight. Why is nothing being heard
on this issue from these church-col-
lege organizations? Too often their
vaunted moral insight just does
not function in regard to themsel-
ves. (They have) no courage to
stand up to the victory demands of
alumni or even of local business
interests. 7

“We believe that there are, how-

fever, presidents of church-related

colleges who are deeply disturbed
over this whole business of ath-
letic overemphasis and hypocrisy.
We believe that there are more of
them than has been known, and
that if they would pool their con-
cern, through their denominational
or interdenominational associations,
they could arrive at conclusions and
Proposals with which the entire
collégiate world would be forced to
reckon. It is time for these presi-
dents of church-related colleges to
begin feeling each other out to
prepare the way to common action.
‘The sheer hypocrisy which exists
in intercollegiate football,” says the
New York Times, “is monumental
and almost heyond belief.” If that
is true — and it is true for more
than football — can the church col-
leges go on acting as though it is
no concern of theirs? Not, we be-
lieve, and maintain their reason for
being.”

College

Rags In Brief...

By WATT JEFFRIES

U.NC.’s “Daily Tar Heel’ re-
ports in a recent issue on Coach
Crowell Little: It seems that on

4 ~ his last trip with
the N. C. team
(N. C. to Dallas
for the Cotton
Bowl) Coach
Little attended a
party after the
game which was
given by a weal-

u~!
thy oilman for

S
ia the players.

Watt Jeffries When an attrac-
tive female magician called for a
married volunteer from the au-
dience, the dean “volunteered” for
Little. He did so, well that the lady
commented “You'd make a pretty
good magician yourself.” One of
the press membefs present crack-
ed, “He'll have to be one next year
to win at Davidson.”

From New York comes word on
January 11 that college football
coaches have voted to continue the
use of the platoon system, As a
compensation measure for smaller
schools the rules were changed so
that it is now legal to substitute a
player after each down. Formerly
a team was penalized for making
a substitution while the clock was
running. . .

The Georgia Tech “Technique”
reports that the Phi Kappa frater-
nity at the University of Pittsburg
recently won a legal case in favor

of “necking”. The dispute arose

over parking in the back of the
fraternity house, which is adjacent
to several private homes. One wit-
ness claimed he had not been abic
to sleep for two years because of
the loud talking and starting of
cars, The court ruled that “neck-
ing” was legal if done quietly, and
Suggseted that the Phi Kappas
cover the parking area with a hard
surface . . . .

Georgia Tech’s Glee Club made
a tour of Germany during the
Christmas holidays. They perform-
ed for U. S. Troops and visited
many places of historic and contem-
porary importance. One of the
highlights of the trip was a visit
to Stuttgart Tech, which has been
the recipient recently of clothing
and equipment from Georgia Tech
students. Stuttgart students played
for a banquet for the club, and
among other songs, the glee club,
sang “I'm A Ramblin’ Reck from
Stuttgart Tech,” and “To Hell with
Heidelberg.” .. .

The University of N. C. foot-
ball schedule for next year has been
rearranged to include a game ‘with
Notre Dame at South Bend. he
Duke game has been made the
last game in place of the tradition-
al Virginia game which is to be
Played earlier. William and Mary
and L.S.U. do not appear on the

schedule. e
