MAIDS MOAN
MARRIED MEN

VOLUME XXXVI

* % 5

ALENDA

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY

DWIKTERS FEATURE

LUK UB)

GQRTA LIBERTAS

13, 1950

“Tmaginary Invalid"
To Be Presented By

Barter Theater Jan.16 |

By TOM ABEL

On January 16, next Monday eve-
ning, the reknowned Barter Theatre
of Abingdon, Virginia, is going to
present one of its road plays, “The
Imaginary Invalid,” at the Moor-
esville High Schoof Auditorium.
The play starts at cight-fifteen
sharp, its sponsorship being hand-
led by the Mooresville Junior Ci-
vic League.

The Barter Theatre had its birth
in the early years of the depres-
sion when Bob Porterfield, the com-
pany’s manager, saw the need for

creating a theatrical group to han-| °

dle the large number of -actors
from the legitimate stage who were
thrown out of jobs by the crash.
The name “Barter” was derived
from just what is implied. At the
early productions a man would be
posted outside the door with a
pair of scaies, accepting eggs, cab-
bages, and every conceivable sort
of produce as admission in lieu of
money.

All summer long plays are given
in the home town of Abingdon, with
the company, (or really companies,
since they have expanded consider-
ably in recent years), remaining on
the road from September until May,
giving the plays of the preceding
summer all over the nation. The
group was particularly honored last
summer when they were invited to
play “Hamlet” in Elsinore Castle,
where that famous Shakespearian
character is alleged to have lived.
It is offers like that which add al-

- most daily to the evergrowing
heritage and reputation of the thea-
tre.

Today the Barter Theatre is what
could be considered a “semi-pro”
organization, consisting of every-
thing from the simon-pures to the
seasoned professionals. Many fa-
mous actors and actresses had their
beginning with the Barter Theatre.
It is unique in another sense be-
sides its founding, being the only
theatre in the nation to be subsi-
dized by a state. For the past sev-
eral years the State of Virginia has
helped support the theatre.

The play to be presented next
Monday night promises to be a great
success, for into it has gone nearly
twenty years of experience and
study by a great company under a
great manager, Bob Porterfield.

Frosh Keep Red Caps
as Soph Down ‘Em

Freshman hopes for victory in
the annual Freshman-Sophomore
Day contests were rudely shatter-
ed when a long pass from Johnny
Guiton to Ham Wade went for a
game-winning touchdown at Rich-
ardson Field last Friday.

The winner of the meet, called
to decide whether or not the Fresh-
men could discard their “53” caps,
depended upon who won the foot-
ball game, since the Frosh had
jumped to an early lead by taking
the sack race, and the Sophs had
retained by out-yanking the Frosh
in the tug-of-war event.

Thus, with the events tied at
1-1, and after a scoreless first half,
the Freshmen, led by Bill Rowland
and A. C. Gregg, drove to within
sight of paydirt, but the Sophs held
and took over on their own 20.

The game then seesawed back
and forth in Sophomore territory
until late in the 4th quarter, when
the upperclassmen resorted to
spread formations and sleepers
combined with sharp passing by
Guiton and Sloan to score with 4
minutes left in the game. Although
the Frosh tried desperately to shove
across a last-minute touchdown,
they were forced to kick and the
Sophs ran out the clock.

A good crowd of enthusiastic
Freshmen viewed the contest along
with a sprinkling of upperctass-

(Continued On Page Six)

MID-SEMESTER GRADUATES

b i 1A

'
S| 2
d anew. cena a

Academic Travel Association
Sponsors European Study Tour

The Academic Travel Associa
tion, a non-profit organization, has
announced the following European
study tours for the summer of
1980: ;

Four weeks in England (London,
South Coast, Lowlands,) $620.00.

Three weeks in England and one
week in Paris, $665.00.

Four weeks in France (Paris,
French Alps, Riviera, $690.00.

Three weeks in France and one
week in London, $750.00.

Additional weeks In England,
France; Scotland, Holland, Scan-
dinavia, Germany, Switzerland, and
Italy, may be secured for $50 to
$75.

The comprehensive tours include
transportations (New York to New
York) to, from, and within Europe,
full board in good hotels, or mod-
ern university accommodations, and
a complete supervised educational
and recreational program of ex-
cursions, sightseeing, theatre and
concert visits, conferences, lectures,
political -and professional contacts,
and social and sport activities.

These prices are valid for regis-
tration before March 1, 1950; a
$100 deposit will secure your reser-
vation, the remainder payable in

(Continued On Page Six)

Aw”

a

Petite Fifi Expires
Under Killers Tire

At 6:25 p. m. Wednesday, | Fifi
was run down and brutally killed
by a grossly irresponsible hit-and-
run driver on the Concord highway.

At the time of fatal accident Fifi
was crossing int her usual manner
from the Kappa Sig boarding house
to the Beta house.

Fifi, truly man’s: best friend on
the campus, . title
through the respect of students
for her true and humble spirit. She
was also dearly loved by all her
other associates. We shall surely
miss. the friendly whimper and the
everywhere presence of Fifi. There
was a tear in bloodshot eye of the
thoughtful. lad who bore the limp
body to the local funeral home as
the flecing killer sped on towards
Kannapolis.

‘Funeral arrangements have not
been completed, but friends are re-
quested not to send flowers.

received her

January Sees Skins
Handed Twenty-One

Ov Friday evening, January 27,
Davidson College will hold its mid-
term graduation exercises in Phi
Hail. Professor Earnest Beaty of
the faculty will be the principal
speaker for the occasion.

There are some twenty-two can-
didates secking Bachelor of Science
degrees at this the close of the first
half of the college term. They are

las follows: Rhea W. Adams, Ports-

mouth, Va.; Charles E. Auten,
Charlotte; Hunter R. Boykin, Char-
lotte; John C. Calhoun, Huntington,
W. Va.; Tom C. Clark, Clarkton,
N. C.; William N. Clark, Jr., Rocky
Mt, N. C.; Robert F. Coble, Jr.,
Bessemer City, N. C.; William A.
Dixon, Belmont, N. €.; George S.
Edwards, Rocky Mt.; John L. EI-
lis; Andrews,,N. C.; Charles E.
Fleming, Cleveland, N. C.; R. W.
Goeckeritz, Charlotte; E. Herbert
Johnson, Pittsboro, N. C.; Ran-
dolph M. Kabrich, Jr., Wytheville,
Va.; Henry P. King, 111, Bristol,
Tenn.; M. Morris Morgan, Laurin-
burg, N. C,; Paul L. O’Briant, Jr.,
Durham, N. C.; Sam L. Pharr, Jr.,
Mooresville, N. C.; James F.
Rodgers, Statesville, N. C.; Kelly
A. Sherrill, Jr., Mooresville, N. C.;
Richard B. Stone, King, N. C.; and
Theodore B. Summer, Jr., Ashe-

ville, N. C.

Sophs take touch football and down Prosh during annual competition.

1} Asheville, Jumberton,

Development Fund
Goal Nearly Reached

~ $350,000 is the amount needed
to make the Davidson College De-
velopment Program a success. $2,-
148,378.82 has already been con-
tributed toward. our college's ex-
pansion by Davidson alumni and
friends the nation over; and it is
hoped that the $2,500,000 goal will
be reached by February 15, the
closing day. of the development
drive,

Returns are coming in ‘from such
Florida centers a» Miami. Tampa,
Palm Reach, Jacksonville, and Or-
lando, where organized campaigns

-{are being sponsored; and in the
"?} South Carolina cities of Columbia,

Sumter, Florence, and Charleston,
kick-off dinners have been or will
be held to set in operation alumni-
prompted development drives. Sim-
ilar programs have been in process
in these North Carolina cities:
Elizabeth-
town, Kinston, New Bert, Reids-
ville, and Statesville. Systematized
Davidson development . campaigns
are functioning in the following
states: North Carolina, Georgia,
Florida, Virginia, South (Carolina,
and New York. Donations, how:
ever, have been received from many
other sections of the country where
there are Davidson alumni. Mr.
Robert J. Sailstad, who is now so-
liciting the less thickly populated
areas of Florida, is director of the
Development Program.

The Dayidson Development “Pro-
gram was officially launched on
Homecoming a year ago, but the
first important action of the drive
took place on February 11, 1949,
when Davidson students governed
the city of Charlotte, N. C. during
a Charlotte-Davidson Day which
emphasized the close relationship
between Charlotte and this college.
Soon after this event Governor
Kerr Scott of North*Carolina deliv-
ered an address at the kick-off’ ban-
quet of the campaign to raise $660,-
000 in Charlotte and vicinity.

The kick-off of the Student De-
velopment Program came a few
". (Continued On Page Six)

CHRISTMAS WEDDINGS CLAIM
LIBERTY OF DAVIDSONIANS

Wedding bells rang out during the Christmas seaso
number of Davidson men. Among the faculty, Mr. Glenn Rob-
erts, instructor in the chemistry department, started the new

twenty’ students.

The Davidsonian | ——

NUMBER THIRTEEN

TORY PASTOR

“GREATEST VOCALIST STYLIST”
SIGNED FOR FEBRUARY 17-18

Bill Bird, president of the Pan-Hellenic Couneil, announced
this week that Tony Pastor and his orchestra will provide the
inusie for the Mid-Winter’s dance set February 17 and 18. Pas-
tor who is recognized as having one of the best bands in the
land is acelaimed as “America’s Greatest Vocal Stylist.’’
Featured with his fifteen piece or-
chestra are vocalists Buddy James
and Adele Castle. Tony has made
hits out of such songs as “Paradid-
dle Joe,” Please Don’t Squeeze da
Banana” and “The Lady From 29

New Courses Set
For 2nd Semester |

,
The approach of the second. se- Palms:” ,
mester finds several new courses Both dances will be hetd in the
being offered to the students which] Johnston Memorial Gymnasium.

are new to the curriculum of Da-| The ‘formal dance of Friday, Feb-
tuary 17, will be from 9 to 1. In-
cluded in the Friday night program
; is the Pan-Hell figure, which will
home, accelerated since the wat be presented during intermission.
years, points with unmistakable evi- | The informal dance of Saturday
dence to the fact that. many couples | "ight will be from 8 to 12 there witl
be no intermission that night in or-
der that those fraternities who have
. banquets will enjoy as much ac-
of married life. Sociology 62, af tual dancing as possible.
course dealing with marriage and In addition to the two dances, .the
the family, is aimed at training] week end festivities will include a
students for the important career] wrestling match between Davidson
of marriage. Professor Douglas[and VPI and a concert in Cham-
will instruct the class, which will bers from. 3:30-5:30 given by Tony
meet at the third period Monday,] Pastor (without admission charge),
Wednesday, and Friday. In this ‘concert Pastor has prom-
Another course making its debut | ised to present a variety of enter-
will be Bible $2, under Dr. Charles | tainment with emphasis on novelty
R. Everhardt. This will be “a study | tunes.
of the sources, genius, and dyna-| Tony Vastor is the second bit of
mics of the Reformation. The} evidence to back up the policy of
course will seek to develop in the] the- Pan-Hefl this year of getting
student an understanding of the|$bree top-flight bands, instead of
early Protestant faith in general} (wo “Knauffs” and one “Tex Ben-
and of the thought and faith of eke.”
John Calvin in particular.” All Further information concerning
candidates interested are asked to] the dances can be obtained between
confer with Dr, Eberhardt before J now and February 17 by consulting
registering for this course. the Davidsonian from week to

English 152 (Public Speaking), | ¥eek
although not a new course, will be
presented for the first time this coi-
lege year during the second semes-
ter by Dr. Rernard H. Boyd, dur-
ing the fourth period T-uesday,
Thursday and Saturday. Registra-
tion must of necessity be limited to

vidson College.
The breakdown of the American

enter marriage while they are yet
unprepared to meet the, demands

Inter-Racial Group
Hears Wilson Speak

Groups from, Johnson C. Smith
and Barber-Scotia, a school for’
colored girls in Concord, met with -
the Davidson College members of
the. Inter-Collegiate Council last
Saturday from three until four in
the Quadrangle room at an inter-
racial meeting with Professor Iain
Wilson as the speaker. After Pro--
fessor Wilson’s lecture on the
n for a| World Councit of Churches, re-
freshments were served and an in-
formal discussion was carried on.

In his lecture Professor Wilson

year out successfully by wedding the former Miss Betty Marie | discussed the history. of the World
Canipe of Charlotte. Mrs. Roberts, the daughter of Mr. and | Council of Churches and the late

Mrs., Edward Guy Canipe of Ox-
ford, was graduated from the
Lowell High School and from the
Presbyterian Hospital School of
Nursing where. she is now employ-
ed. They were married January 2,
at 5:30 o’clock in the Ranlo Bap-
tist Church, Gastonia. Rev. H. D.
Brown, pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church, of Rock Hill, and
Dr. J. C. Canipe, of Henderson-
ville, uncle of the bride, officiat-
ed,

Joseph Wheeler McLaney, Jr., of
the senior class was married to
Miss Sara Elizabeth Barber of
Charlotte. The ceremony took place
at 4:30 o'clock in Avondale
Presbyterian Church, where Mrs.
Earl F. Berg of Davidson, organist.
and Moody Chisholm of Kannapo-
lis, vocalist, presented the wedding
music. Mrs. McLaney, daughter of
Rey. and Mrs. Lowery Barber of
Moultrie, Ga., was graduated from
Aberdeen High School, Aberdcen,
and from Queens College, where
she was a member of Phi Mu so-
rority. She was a special student
at Assembly’s Training School in
Richmond, Va., and for the last two
months has taught kindergarten in
the Avondale Presbyterian Church.
Mr. McLaney of Charlotte, was
graduated from Central High
School and served two years in the
armed forces, a year of which was
spent in Japan. He is a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

In a ceremony which took place

(Continued On Page Six)

Amsterdam conference. He stated:
that the World Council of Church-
es planned to have a World Con-
ference every five years to better
the relations between the differ-

Masquers Announce
Twin One-Act Plays |=, morse: (retin

In a meeting of the Red and Wilson, ninety leaders from all ov-
Black Masquers which was held in| ¢* the ‘world meet in a different
December it was the decision of | country to stimulate the interest of
the group to present for their sec- the individual church member in
und production of the year two one_| the World Council of Churches.
act plays. The plays which were Professor Wilson traced the his-
selected are “The Valiant” by Hol- | tory of the break of the Protestant
worthy Hall and Robert Middle- churches with the Catholic Church.
“Sunday Costs Five With this break, The Church split
up into many branches, Professor
‘Wilson said, but the World Coun-
cil of Churches is endeavering to
incite a feeling of oneness again into
all churches all over the world —
so that a “group idea’ may come

mass and
Pesos” by Josephina Niggli.

“The Valiant,” which is to be
directed by Bill Trotman, is a
tragedy which has become almost
a classic in American literature. It
has been received with great enthu-

. . . ntinu Pa
siam by American audiences during (Co ed On ge Six)
the last three decades. The scene

of the play is the warden’s office HOT COFFEE, DONUTS
of the Connecticutt State Prison.| FOR EXAM-WEARY LADS

Appearing in the leading’ roles of
“Phe Valiant” are Tom Apperson
as Dyke and Mrs, B. M. Boyd as
Josephine Paris. The supporting
cast is as follows: Beb Gay as Fa-
ther Daly, Bill Pharr as Warden
Holt, Ted Daniels as Dan, and
Bob Hotchkiss as the attendant.

Each year the YMCA serves cof-
fee and dough-nuts at exam time.
Bill Klein, chairman of the Social
committee, has annoanced that this
year the refreshments will be serv-
ed every night from January 23,
through January 26, from 10 to

“Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” a 10:30 p. m. in the Chambers din-
light comedy with a Mexican back-| "5 hall, A plate will be placed
ground is to be directed by Nancy} on a table and those who take re-
Copeland. Mrs. Dorothy Herring] freshinents are -asked to contribute
and Wylie Smith are cast in the}any amount, they desire for the re-

leading roles as Berta and Fedel freshments.
