PAGE TWO

' THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

BOB HOLLISTER

IN CHIEF
EDITOR ----- BILL HOUCK

BUSINESS MANAGER
EDITORIAL STAFF ;
Associate Editor ...--.--.------------~--- fone ene een ee Doug Hix

Associate Editor ......------~.-------------------- Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor ..-...-....----------------+-=+------- Jack Hazard
AGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,

te Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister,

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-

Ast Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

Photographs -..-....--.----------- wennneneene: --. Ed Richardson

Assignments Asst. .~----.--~----------------- ~--—_ Watt Jeffries

Proofreader .....---------~--------~-----~+~--------- Charlie Baldwin

BUSINESS STAFP

t Business Manager ------ . - Bilt Cassells
Pereercities “Managers ee Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam, Faison, ffak
Circulation Manager .-..------.------------<--------- ug’ uffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager Jo} 0 Loft
Subscriptions Manager --------—------------------------- Alex Golty

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North

Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Letter to Student Body

In taking leave of The Davidsonian this week and in look-
ing back over the editions of the paper that have constituted
the 1949-1950 Davidsonian, I want to sincerely thank the Stu-
dent Body for the privilege and the experience and the fun
that the editorship of the paper has been. The managing editors
are responsible for having made this year’s Davidsonian, in the
the words of Professor Lilly, ‘‘the best ever.”’ They deserve
your thanks and appreciation.

If you are interested in showing them that their work has
been and is valued, the best way that this could be done is to
submit articles, features, and your time, if possible, in helping
them to make the paper even better next year. .

I hope the next editor, whoever he is to be, will be wise
enough to continue to work closely in ’50-'51 with those of the
managing editors who are not elected. Nowhere could he find
a more interested, capable group of men.

If the next editor enjoys his work as much and learns as
much while at it as I have, he will be well rewarded.

—Bob Hollister.

Professor Stands Exam

Last month Professor Griffin gave one of his first year
classes a form with which they were asked to evaluate that
course and make recommendations concerning ways in which
he could improve the content of the course and its effectiveness.
This was not done as a result of any criticism or discontent but
simply because Professor Griffin was interested in student
opinion of the course and any ideas they might advance or sug-
gestions they might have which would make the course a better
one. Other professors at times make the same request of their
students. Dr. Puckett regularly asks his first year Biology stu-
dents for comments or suggestions concerning the text books
used, material covered, and general teaching procedure.

Too many professors, however, never consult their students
concerning their opinion of his course — some even discourage
such comment. We believe that since the result of all the teach-
er’s efforts are measured by the students grasp of and interest
in the subject matter of the course, that it would definitely be
to his advantage as well as the advantage of the class as a whole
if each Professor made it standard procedure to consult his
classes at least once yearly. — perhaps in the Spring — with a
view toward using their comments and suggestions to improve
his course. Many of the suggestions received would doubtless
be contradictory or of little value for one reason or another, but
even if one or two ideas of value were secured, both the Profes-
sor and his future classes would profit thereby. Professor Grif-
fin distributed to his class a four page folder which we believe
covers the subject thoroughly. Main topics included were: (1)
Professor’s knowledge of subject, (2) Preparation for class,
(3) Clarity of presentation, (4) Sense of proportion in presenta-
tion, (5) Ability to express himself, (6) Method of expressing
himself, (7) Opportunity for questions and discussion, (8) Ability
to arouse interest, (9) Organization of subject matter, (10) Fre-
quency of quizzies and reviews, (11) Assignments, (12), Course
content, (12) Amount of work required, (13) Original thinking
required (14) Textbook, (15) Attitude in class between instruc-
tor and students, (17) Availability for conferences, (18) Appear-
ance, (19) General Background, (20) Sense of Humor, and a
space for general comment and suggested improvements.

Keep the Gym Open

Recently the Athletic Department has found it necessary to
close the new gym at night. During the day, ‘the same schedule
is still in effect, but at present the gym is not available for use
anytime after 6:00 P. M. The reason for this action has been
clearly indicated. A count was kept for an extended period of
time of all students using the gym after supper and Coach Jam-
erson stated that it was found that on the average five men per

night have made use of the new gym’s facilities since the end
f the intermural basketball season. As the cost of keeping the
gym open from 7:00 until 10:00 each night amounts to approxi-
mately seventy dollars a night, it was decided that the gym
would be closed.

However the number of students remaining on campus dur-
ing week ends and would like to use the gym Saturday nights
far exceeds five. We believe it would justify the cost if the gym
were kept open until 10:30 or 11:00 on Saturday, since a much
larger number of students would put it to use then than do on
week nights. We would like to ask the Athletic department to
consider keepmg the gym open Saturday nights — if not as a
permanent venture at least until a trial period revealed that such

@ procedure would not be wise.
}

.}

LAST WORDS—/ 4 &%

4 Mnco wan HE Ghee crannd es
WOMY VOURTILE, OUT, AS Vou Cort

SEE HERE, CREED WITH THIS
P ' a0 treo ee Peavectty

“FAMOUS

id

‘The Telephone’

PREVIEW .OF OPERA TO

“15

BE PRESENTED
By HENRY E. HANSON
; i a .
On Wednesday, April 26, at reach Lucy except by the telephone

which has thwarted him thus far.
He leaves the apartment, places
the call, and is, at last, successful.
Lucy accepts and their last duet is a
miracle of tender love. The plot it-
self as just described is intrinsically
humorous, but the telephone con-
versations of Lucy, so satirical, so
urbane, and, so pointless from Ben's
point of view, furnish the real
humor of the piece. Ben, at one
point, realizing that the phone will
never be silent and give him his
chance, takes a pair of scissors and
advances stealthily on the phone to
cut its life cord, but, just in time,
the telephone rings frantically,
summoning Lucy to its defense.
She upbraids him for menacing the
instrument and he replies, “It was
only in self-defense,”

To sum up, “The Telephone” is
a delightfully humorous satire of

(Continued On Page Six)

10:25 a. m. Phi Mu Alpha will pre-
sent in chapel Gian-Carlo Menotti’s
opera, “The Telephone.” This will
be a musical event of considerable
importance for it will be unique in
several ways. First of all, it will be
the first time that a program of
such a nature has been presented
in chapel instead of in the evening;
the reason for this is that the ap-
peal of this opera is felt to be so all
inclusive that it should be pre-
sented where and when all can
enjoy it. Second, it is probably the
first performance in the South, cer-
tainly the first to be done by such
a group. Finally, certain elements
of plot and story in "The Tele-
phone” are unique to opera.

“The Telephone’ was sponsored
by the Ballet Society of New York
and had its first performance in
the Heckscher Theatre in the spring
of 1947. Seriously questioned be-
fore its premiere from both dra-
matic and musical standpoints, it
had an unparalleled success both
as good opera and as good theatre,
Virgil Thompson said that “The
Telephone” and its companion
opera, “The Medium,” were “first
class musico-theatrical works.”
“The Telephone,” he described as
an “opera buffd, light and full of
laughter.” He found it “gay, funny,
and completely humane.” Olin
Downes commented: “ ‘The Tele-
phone’ was good theatre through-
out, and lively, tuneful music.” It
is, “very amusing, done dexterous-
ly and with a light touch.” Tos-
canini himself was so impressed
with “The Telephone” that he went
back night after night to hear the
work,

It is not, of course, without-trepi-
dation that the performance of this
work has been undertaken. Some
have felt and said that the per-
formance would not be a succeess,
not because the principals in the
cast are incapable of singing the
difficult roles, but because the stu-
dent body en masse would not ap-
preciafe such a performance. How-
ever, Phi Mu Alpha feels that its
faith in the student body will be
completely justified,

We are fighting a battle today
to determine whether religioh or
education is to be the saving pow-
er of our civilization. Theologians
point a finger of scorn at educa-
tion and accuse it of secularism.
Educators, in turn, condemn the
church for superstitution, prejudice,
and provincialism, asserting , that
only as we train the mind can we
save society. And so they fight.
The problem is not simple. It can't
be settled over tea cups. After all,
religion and higher education posed
such a problem for Nazism that
they had to be domesticated as
serfs of the state. Potentially they
were dynamite. In the hands of a
‘wrong’ people they could be dan-
gerous weapons.

The .church-related college is
unusually interested in this prob-
lem, because of all institutions of
higher learning it has peculiar ties
to both religion and education. As
the educational arm of a particu-
lar religious group, the church-
related college is attentive to the

,j he owed the

arises? Just what type of religion

‘gion is a matter of orientation.

College Rags

....-IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

From the University of Virginia
comes a tale of woe this week,
One student, upon returning from
the holidays, was notified that he
had taken out three reference
books which cost a fine of five dol-
jars a day until returned and that
library a total of
$190.00. Fortunately, however, he
found that the maximum fine
which could be charged at one
time was $25.00,

Duke professors are now seeing
flying saucers. From the Bull City
comes news that Dr. Franklin W.
Young of the Duke Divinity
School sighted a round silver ob-
ject in‘the sky while driving between
Hillsboro and Chapel Hill recent-
ly. Young, the second Duke profes-
sor to see flying saucers, said the
object appeared to have a dark
center and remained in sight for
about five seconds,

The George Washington Hatchet
recently carried an_ interesting
description of the types of char-
acters that may be found on col-
lege campuses, A few are reprinted
below:

The Genius: Just sits’ there.
Doesn’t move until professor makes
a profound statement which no one
understands; then he slowly shakes
his head up and down. He wouldn’t
fend his homework to his mother.
Strives for a 3.1 average. He has
no friends except other geniuses.
Knows about girls from the movies
he has seen.

The Note Taker: Sits and takes
notes all period, Takes notes when
prof. talks about the trip he took
last summer. Averages 200 pages
per subject per quarter, Secret am-
bition is to take shorthand. Has
nightmares about running out of
ink and breaking pencil point.
Comes time to study for a test, he
borrows somebody else’s notes.
Can’t read his own.

The Fraternity Man: Cannot
study alone. Is never seen in school;
he lives at the frat house, Works
hard all quarter and tries to get
as much out of the course as possi-
ble, but never fails to take advan-

The Space Filler

By JACK HAZARD

Since this column has no policy
in particular, -we thought it would
be a ‘good place to mention an
enterprise into which one of out
illustrious seniors intends to enter.
This entreepreneur of whom we
speak is Mr. Bill Little of Greens-
boro. Bill plans to go into business
manufacturing nothing.

Now this may shock many, but
actually it will be a sound situa-
tion. Of course, there will be no
attempt to sell the product since
it doesn’t exist, but this fact in
itself will be a great benefit to
society. There are many manufac-
turers of nothing’ today who at-
tempt to disguise the product by
giving it a name and then selling
the product to the public through
advertisement, For this reason we
think Bill should draw the sup-
port of all.

Take for example those who
make bubbles. Bubbles actually
amount to nothng, but many peo-
ple are making vast sums of money
by selling this form of nothing.

There are other ways of com-
mercializing on nothing. The man
who manufactures falsies and other
such forms of bluff, is in a sense
earning his bread and butter on
that which does not exist.

Had we more imagination we

might list other ways in which the
public is so fooled. But we lack
imagination and are too lazy to
investigate further so we'll go on
with the column.

The President of Nothing, Inc,
will, of course, be its founder, Bill
Little. (This is all right since the
word Little is next to nothing any-
way.) The vice president will be
Nobody and the Sec.-Treas., No
One. The factory will be located
Nowhere and since the product
will not go on the market, there
will be no need for distributors or
any form of middle man.

The cost of manufacturing and
all overheard will naturally be zero
—the price, the same. There will
be no need for raw materials, ad-
vertisement, or any form of sales
promotion—naturally no salesmen.

We are for Bill Little and his
venture and hope he succeeds. In
order to aid its cause we are gen-
erously donating the remainder of
this column for an_unpaid and un-
solicited advertisement. Said ad is
as follows:

Outlook Varies For Teaching

Positions

Graduates trained for elementary.
school teaching should find a wide
choice of employment opportuni-
ties in most States this spring. On
the other hand, prospective teach-
ers at the secondary level will find
a highly competitive employment
situation in all byt a few subject
fields. Last year, only one student
completed training for elementary
teaching for every three who were
needed; this year, the shortage will
be nearly as acute. The number of
students completing preparation for
high school teaching in 1949 was
four times as great as the demand;
the oversupply in 1950 is expected
to be even greater.

The need for teachers in elemen-
tary schools will continue to in-

tage of the complete file of notes |‘crease over the next several years.

(Continued On Page Five)

is it that- we would establish and
eultivate here? What type of re-
ligion is most compatible with the
educational philosophy of a church-
related college? Let us attempt to
answer the question.

Before we proceed it would be
best to define what we mean hy re-
ligion and what we mean by higher
education. At the rick of oversimpli-
fication we will define religion as
man’s search for and relationship
with that which he considers to be
the most supremely worthwhile,
meaningful, purposeful, and of ulti-
mate concern for all human living.
You could re-word this to say,
“man’s search for and relationship
with God.” Whatever the words,
religion is integrally related to a
world view. Human experience is
seen as related to that which is of
ultimate concern — to God. Reli-

To borrow a thought from Rob-
ert Calhoun, we will define higher
education as that. which seeks to

According to a recent study by the

Concerning Religion & Higher Education

TEXT OF CHAPEL TALK BY PROF. H. A. BAUMAN

One type of religion that has ex-
isted in higher education is that
which, for all purposes, is a kind
of humanism. It is a religion in
which man’s orientation goes no
farther than the self. In history this
religious type has its exponents in
the 18th century Englishtenment
and Romanticism. In this religion
man’s reason, feeling, emotion, etc.,
become either implicitly or explicit-
ly the final authority or arbiter.
Someone has said that in this sort
of religion man is his own God.
Even though this religion estab-
lishes some sort of reason or scien-
tific method as its norm, it is not
inimical to higher education. It, too,
desires to cultivate the critical
temper and spirit of inquiry. It
even has a world view. But, its
limitations are clear. It can go no
farther than the individual self can
go. It is self limited. .

A second type of religion is an
illustration of David Hume’s state-
ment that man's religion by nature

Department of Labor’s Bureau of
Statistics, enrollments in grades 1
to 8 will probably rise sharply for
the next seven years in most States
and then level off. The total num-
ber of elementary teaching posi-
tions will therefore increase con-
Siderably, perhaps by more than
260,000 in the next seven years.
The number. of new teachers re-
quired annually will be greatest
about 1953, the year when the
sharpest increase in the enrollments
is expected.

Many more new teachers are re-
quired each year as replacements
than for new positions, even in the
current period of rapid growth of
elementary school population. On
the basis of a conservative rate of
seven per cent, it is estimated that
over half a million elementary
teachers will be required in the
next 10 years to replace those who
die, retire, or leave the classrooms
for other reasons, In addition, a
sizeable number will be needed to
replace some of the persons now
teaching on emergency certificates.

The number of young people tak-
ing training for elementary teach-
ing will depend, in the future as in
the past chiefly on the other em-
ployment opportunities available
and the relative salaries offered. If
general economic conditions should
become less favorable and there
should be considerable unemploy-

(Continued On Page Six)

College Graduates
Speak Poor English

Charlottesville, Va-—Quinten O.
McAllister asserted here recently
that “America’s college graduates
don’t know how to speak and write
the English language.” .

His statement was made to the
Southern Humanities Conference in
a report on results of a country-
wide survey of business and govern-
ment leaders who were asked what

is polytheistic. It is‘a type of re-| importance they placed on college °

The purpose of this article is to
give certain salient facts concern-
ing the performance here and, thus
heighten the enjoyment of those
who see it. The baritone role will
be sung by Harrison Taylor, the
soprano role by Roberta Jones of
Queens College. The opera takes
twenty-five minutes to perform.
Phi Mu Alpha requests that alt
persons be in their chapel seats by
10:25. The bell which ordinarily
rings at 10:50 will be silenced for
the occasion.

“The Telephone” is an opera buf-
fa, a light opera; it is beyond this
an extremely amusing and witty
satire of Italian opera, the variety
to which Mr. Shaw in his concert
made jocular reference. It concerns
two people—a young man, Ben,
and his efforts to propose to his
girl, Lucy, before leaving for the
war. His intentions are of the best
and she, too, is interested in him,
but every time he is just on the
verge of phrasing the momentous
question the telephone rings and
Lucy answers, or Lucy is making
a call in answer to the call she has
just received, His time is running
out, but even his anguished, “what
time is it” precipitates a call by
Lucy to ascertain just that fact
for Bens edification. Eventually,

Ben being a fairly bright young

man, the solution presents itself.
He realizes that he will never

develop a trained intelligence, a
spirit of free inquiry, a critical tem-
per, and a clear-headed world out-
look. The aim of education is to
train and produce disciplined and
free people who are prepared to
live in our highly-geared and com-
plex society.

An cxamination of history will
show that there have been many
and various types of religion in the
church-related college. A cursory in-
vestigation of many such colleges
in the Middle West, for example,
reveals in the past generation or so
a trend which to the faithful might
seem unhealthy and dangerous. In
one denominational college in the
past generation required chapel
has been reduced from five to
three days a week, with no com-
pulsory Sunday worship service at-
tendance and nothing resembling
weekly hall prayer meetings. While
this is not directly related to
courses taught ini the department
of religion, it nevertheless is an
outgrowth or expression of the
stand taken by the college.

Let us inquire into this busi-
ness of religion in the church-
related college in order to see some
of the main types of religion that
can exist. We might be able to dis-
cover the religion that is most com-
patible. At any rate, it will be a
way of examining our own situa-
tion with respect to religion.

role that religion plays in its cur-
riculum. Theoretically, the disci-
plines of religion constitute the
core of its academic life, Neverthe-
less, it is perhaps not unfair to
suggest that in the history of the
church-related college in America a
metamorphosis has taken place with
respect to the role of religion.
That is to say, with some excep-
tions, religion, in all but name on-
ly, has lost its once predominant
position. While technology and
science are flourishing as never be-
fore, the religious disciplines are
pagsing through terrible decay. The
vestigial remains of religion are
still, present in most cases, but
the spirit that inhabits them is
meeting a slow death.

All of this is to say that the sit-
uation is relevant to Davidson. Da-
vidson gives indications of being
concerned with the part religion
plays in its academic program. At
the meetings of the Trustees of
Davidson College a report is given
concerning the ‘state of religion’ on
the campus. It is good that the col-
lege examines the position and
function of religion. However, this
examination should not be just, to
insure that religion is there and
functioning properly, but. also, and
perhaps more so, to make certain
that the religion that operates is the
tight type of religion.

It is at this point that a question

ligion whose orientation is focused
about some church, creed, book,
race, humanly constructed system
of authority, etc. Ostensibly, its
claim is the comprehension of the
reality which is God. It compresses
this comprehension into a system
of dogma, ritual, ceremony, etc. To
use Niebuhr’s thought, it domesti-
cates God. Finite man understands
and is able to represent the In-
finite. God is identified with that
which is of ultimate meaning,
which in this religion is usually a
man-made entity. And so we have
the absolutizing of a nation, a par-
ticular church, an economic or poli-
tical system, a culture, or social
classification. Such absolutizations
are polytheistic and idolatrous and
most assuredly a violation of the
First Commandment.

This religion forbids criticism.
Inquiry into religious matters is
taboo, for this religion claims, in
theory or in practice, to have the
final and complete answer. With
its understanding of and peculiar
identification with God as the
authority, this religious type cir-
cumscribes the area beyond which
man cannot go in his search for
truth. The recent attempt of a
religious group to ban the circula-
tion of Nation Magazine in the
public schools of New York City,
is a typical illustration of the way

(Continued On Pege Six)

training in English, foreign lan-
guages and other cultural topics.

The replies showed, said Mr. Mc-
Allister, representing Meredith Col-
lege, Raleigh, N. Cz that college
graduates today did not have enough
training in the use of written and
spoken English and had vocabularies
much too small for the needs of
business and government.

Mr. McAllister said the 1,000
teplies received indicated that
training in foreign languages was
not enough, that some special skill
in engineering or other fields was
needed, and that better language
was very important. .

“The report indicates that South-
ern educators are looking outside
their ivory towers in the hope of
giving college graduates training
that will make them more valuable
in the business and_ professional
world,” said Sturgis Leavitt of the
University of North Carolina, con-
ference head.

Mr, Leavitt said the South re-
cently had “made great strides in
football and in industry.”

“The South,” he added, “has re-
ceived support of big national
foundations and it is time for
many Southern foundations to in-
terest themselves in liberal arts pro-
gress in the South and bring the
cultural stature of our region in
line with its athetics and its in-
dustry,"—-N, Y, Times,
