FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1950

PAGE TW THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF BOB HOLLISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER .....-.--.---------------- BILL HOUCK

| EDITORIAL STAFF :
Associate Editor -.--..------- qeceeeeen ene nn een ae aen ee -- Doug Hix
Associate Editor ----—,->---y---------------------- Lonnie Turnipseed

Associate Editor .......---2...---..-------------- ace-- Jack Hazard
MANAGING EDITORS—Arnie Covell, Billi Cumming, Hartley Hall,
Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Bill Hollister,

Sports Editor—Gordon Scott Make-up Editors — Dan McKei-

Art Editor—Bill King then, Cherry Stribling.

City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries

Photographs -..1....-.-.----------.-----------<----- Ed_ Richardson

Assignments Asst. ..--.---.------------------------- -- Watt Jeffries

Proofreader ..--..----------.----------------------- Charlie Baldwin
BUSINESS STAFF ; .

Assistant Business Manager -------------------—------_ Bill Cassels

Advertising Managers -...--------.--------- Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw

Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.

Circulation Manager —......--..--------------------- Hugh Huffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers ... Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager ~---.--.-.------~---~---- John Loftin |!
Subscriptions Manager .---.-- _..------- Alex Goley

PRINTED BY
DAVIDSON PRINTING COMPANY

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

Rushing... First or Second Semester

Recently there has been much agitation on the part of
some to delay rushing until the. second semester. The propo-
‘nents of this change have some ‘very noteworthy points, as do
its opponents. We shall attempt to present both sides of the
argument before expressing any views of our own.

The advocates of delayed rushing contend that scholarship
would be aided to no little degree since the rushees would not
be hindered in their studies during the first week of school.
Pointing out that the new men are already faced with an en-
tirely new environment, the backers of this plan stress the idea
that the neophytes should not be confronted with an addition-
‘al problem upon the correct decision of which may depend the
happiness of their entire college life.

The claim is also made that both fraternities and freshmen
would benefit from this plan since each would have ample
time to ‘‘look over’’ the other, and fraternities would be able
to choose men who would aid, rather than hinder, their scholastic
standing. ‘

A third point which is stressed is the matter of class spirit.
This is something which some seem to think is at a low ebb at
Davidson, and the proponents point out how much that intangi-
ble asset could be aided by the close communion the freshmen
would enjoy during a semester devoid of the ‘‘evils’’ of fra-
ternity membership.

In reply, the fraternities have seen fit to support the sys-
tem which was employed this year. Fraternity leaders are of
the opinion that their system of study halls.conducted during
the first semester may aid rather than hinder scholarship, and
that this would counter-balance any possible harm done during
rush weeek. ;

The problem of ‘dirty rushing’’ also arises simultaneously
with the discussion of delayed pledging. One of the outstanding
assets of fraternities at Davidson is the fact that the various,
chapters are noted for their congeniality and lack of animosity.
It is the feeling of the fraternities that if rushing were delayed,
the tension and eagerness which would be built up during the
semester would tend to destroy the friendly atmosphere which.
now prevails on fraternity court.

Another strong point of fraternities at Davidson is the
fact that the leadership among the chapters is a thing which
does not long remain in the same place. This is due mainly to
the fact that each year the various groups are able to secure
some men who will be definite assets to the chapters. If rush-
ing were delayed, these men would, quite naturally, desire to
join the group which was currently on top; thus strengthening
the strong and further weakening the less fortunate.

It has been the aim of this article to present the pros and
cons of the rushing program only, and not to dip into the realm
of related problems which would automatically arise if second
semester rushing were put into effect, i.e., the possibility of
several of the fraternity houses having to reorganize or even
to close.

We realize that any rushing system has its advantages and
disadvantages. However, during the school year 1948-'49, fra-
ternity leaders met with the Dean of Students in an effort to
discover a sysiem which would best suit the situations and
conditions which exist here at Davidson. After many weeks of
discussion, they came out with the plan which was used this
past year. Therefore, it seems to us that since the system was
devised by students who were having to suffer these so-called
hardships and scholastic difficulties, they should have been
better able to discern what policy is best and. which rushing
procedure is most advantageous for all concerned. We hope
that the first semester rushing program they outlined will be
employed in the future as it was this past Fall.

Elections...

Democratic primary elections are rapidly coming upon us.
In April and May voters throughout the South will go to the
polls to name candidates for the off-year Congressional elections
next fall. In many cases, victory in the primary elections will
be tantamount to election for candidates.

There are now only a handfull of students at Davidson
who will be eligible to vote in these elections, but we would
like to urge all those who are eligible to be registered and vote.
For maiy this will be the first opportunity to exercise their
franchise. For others it is an old experience. But for all it is a
duty and a privilege.

Aside from the congressional seats which turn over every
two years, there are several important Senate races on tap in
this part of the country. In North Carolina, both senior Senator
Clyde Hoey and the freshman Frank Graham must face the
voters. ‘

Hoey, the old line conservative, is facing the mayor of
Winston-Salem. Hoey is the popular old picture of a southern
aristocrat. His ‘conservative views have won favor with Tar

(Continued On Page Six) ‘

w

College Rags

see IN BRIEF
By BILL CUMMING

Discrimination

The HEIGHTS DAILY NEWS
of New York University has an-
nounced that all “discriminatory”
clauses are to be dropped from the
constitutions of N. Y. U. frater-
nities. This action was taken by
the University interfraternity coun-

cil in an attempt

” to erase member.
ship restrictions
based on race,
religion, color o1
nationality. The
council will re.
fuse to recognize
any campus or-
ganization __in-
cluding strong
local and national fraternities which
has the so-called discriminatory
clauses in its constitution.

Drinking

The Presbyterian College BLUE
STOCKING this week reports
that members of the Pan-Hellenic
Council are intensifying their ef.
forts to abolish the partaking of in-
ebriating and intoxicating bever-
ages by P. C. students. The inter-
fraternity council has announced a
$25.00 fine for any fraternity mem-
ber who violates the drinking law
which stipulates that there shall
be no drinking on the campus, The
council further provided for a host
of G-men including all faculty mem-
bers, Pan Het members, and all
fraternity members which should
“orgy-matically” turn in offenders.
The action came as a result of a
warning from the administration
that should any drinking arise, it
must be immediately stopped.
Those Davidsonians who recall the
P. C. exhibition of the eve of Oct.
Ist here at Davidson may consider
this the understatement of the
week,

Cc

Spice

THE REFLECTOR of Missis-
sippi State College this week an-
nounced that publication of the
MIS-A.SIP, humor publication of
the college, wilt stop immediately.
The MIS-A-SIP, recognized in col-
lege circles ag’ one of the spicest
though not ainong the nicest co;.
lege humor /magazines, has been
published since fast Spring in dis-
regard of a ‘ban placed upon it by
the Board of Publications. In a re-
cent meeting of the Board of Pu
lications with the Disciplinary Com-
mittee of the college and the Ad.
ministrative Council it was decided
that the present owners of the mag:
azine should immediately cease pub-
lication or face expulsion from col-
lege. The situation was brought to
a head by the wide spread reaction
to last month's issue of the maga-

zine. Protests to college officials}

and editorials in a local newspaper
moved the college officials to take
drastic action.
More Shocking Kisses

From the University of Kansas
comes the startling word that the
electric charge which you think you
receive from kissing your current
flame is neither emotional nor imag-
ined on your part. Reparts say
that scientists have discovered that
the metallic filings in teeth, when
brought together, may set up a cur-
rent reaching one volt.

The Poll Cat

By PAUL B. GUTHERY, JR.

QUESTION: Do you favor
legislative non-segregation of
the white and negro races?

Yes ...--..--------- 7.2 pet.
No, ....---.------<- 77.0 pet.
No Opinion -..-.... 15.8 pet.

TEN TIMELY TOPICS

“Man Is Responsible,” Kermit
Eby, The Christian Century,
March 15, 1950.

“Thirty Years a ‘Creditor’,” For-
tune, February, 1950.

“Point IV,” Fortune,
1950.

“Profile of Red China,” Doak Bar-
nett, Foreign Reports, February
1S, 1950.

“Science and Politics in the
Twentieth Century,” James B.
Conant, Foreign Affaire, January,
1950,

“Theories of Socialist Imperialism,”
Lenore O’Boyle, Foreign Affaire,
January, 1950.

“Congress Undertakes to Explore
the Controversial Brannan Plan:
Pro and Con,” Congressional Di-
gest, March, 1950. °

“Labor Developments in 1949,”
Monthly Labor Review, Feb-
ruary, 1950.

“World Disarmament,” Milliard E.
Tydings, Vital Speeches of the
Day, March 1, 1950.

February,

T REALLY GavE Vim Beth

It is doubtless true that many
people have been aware of the ter-
rible conditions of negro housing
for some time, perhaps many years
in some cases. It is also true, gen-
erally speaking, that little can be
done by an individual to alleviate
this condition. And it is almost
certainly true that the second
statement has served for no one
knows how long as a very conven-
ient stop to the proddings of an
uneasy conscience demanding some
action about the conditions which
Tom Abel summarized so effec-
tively in the February twenty-
fourth edition of the Davidsonian.
There is no easier or more pleas-
ant way to escape just criticism
than simply to agree with it, ma-
ligning yourself: all the while, pro-
ducing a feeling of exuberant
riglteousness and, finally, to do ab-
solutely nothing. It is evident that
most people fall into this class,
those who agree and then do noth-
ing. Some have even made state-
ments that nothing can be done
since the. whole situation is the fault
of the negro’s lack of character —
this is patently ridiculous. Place
any race in such surroundings and
with limited cash and the result
would be essentially the same —
squalor, apathy, crime, and a de-
gradation of-the human spirit, With
such conditions, exhortation is not
cnough; there must be action.

Luckily enough, there are some
in this community who have not
been soothed by _ self-excusing
statements. Specifically I think of
one individual who was not lulled
into inaction but simply went ahead
on personal initiative and built a
house for a negro, the servant of
the irtdividual in question. This
house was not a gift — the usual

NEGRO HOUSING:

You Are Responsible 7

By HENRY E. HANSON

come the conditions

"OS
BARRELS Toney,
ys DekstTo

Simply stated, an investment has
been made, a cash return is being
realized, but most important ‘of all,
by this intelligent and unaided so-
cial action, a human being has been
placed in surroundings which have
had a desirable effect. This is one
instance of what can be done, And
the capital required would not be,
in many cases, prohibitive. Others,
it is understood, have learned of
this and are seriously considering
doing much the same thing. It is
firmly to be hoped that this consid-
eration will reach a positive deci-
sion to go ahead with such a plan.

It is not particularly easy to over-
which con-
front us across the tracks. The most
effective efforts, it is true, could be
made by a group of people. But
something has been done by an in-
dividual and it can be done again,
If. every individual would place
the responsibility where it belongs,
at the individual level, there would
be no need for a holding company.
That this condition has been al-
lowed to exist for a hundred years
in the shadow of a Christian in-
stitution is an affront to that ap-
pelation and a personal disgrace
to all those who number themselves
in a Christian group.

The purpose of this article is
only to suggest that the time for
action is now and that the respon-
sibility for action lies with the in-
dividual. Something can and has
been done by one person. Why not.
as individuals, examine the case
and see whether or not our inaction
has really becn determined by a
personal Jack rather than any in-
superable difficulties? An honest
answer would- in all probability
make the other side of the tracks
very little different from the more
pleasing scenes on this side.

rate of interest is being received.

<=

| - @ Mine Coal or Sell Oil?

By GABRIEL LOWE

The Great Coal Strike has end-! John L. Lewis -had reduced the

ed, and a shivering nation and
paralyzed industry are again re-
ceiving the vital fuel which they
have so long awaited. But certain
principles remain unsettled which
will continue to dog all labor-man-
agement relations in the future, and
may well lead to even more danger-
ous and devastating strikes.

The first principle in question is:
Can a miner who is not willing to
work prevent his job from being
filled by a miner who ts willing?
This question is closely tied to the
principle of the union shop, The
contract under which the coal min.
ers worked last year stipulated that
they would work only when “able
and willing”, and that no miner
who was unable or unwilling to
work could be replaced by another
as long as the contract was bind-
ing. By such an agreement the min-
ers were able to walk out anytime
they saw fit, reducing or stopping
altogether the production of coal.
By this agreement lengthy holiday
periods in memorial of mine dis-
asters had reduced coal reserves
drastically; and by this agreement

miner’s work week to three days
in order to raise the price of coal.
But in no case could a miner—un-
ion member or not — be employed
to work more than three days each
week or during these holiday per-
iods, .

The edge of this extreme has
been dulled somewhat by substi-
tuting for the “able and willing”
clause in the new contract a pro-
vision calling for the miners to
work so long as there is mutual
good faith between them and the
mine owners. There is still no pro-
vision, however, that would allow
the owners to employ whomever
they wish when the regularly em-
ployed miners are on strike. The
union shop .is maintained, and
though the business belongs to the
owners they are not free to run it
within: the law as they sce fit.

The second principle in question
is: Should the health, safety, and
welfare of the nation be in the
hands of one labor dictator who will
jeopardize them merely ‘to satisfy
his own ego? At the height of the
recent strike practically all of the

IDEFENSES OF PEACE... .

CONSTRUCTED IN THE MINDS OF
By DON SHRIVER

officers” who would “present the
Air Force point of view at faculty
meetings ... and secure publication
in college and other newspapers of
items released through Public In-
formation Officers, this Headquar-
ters.” A further comment focuses
the purpose of such activity: “Be-
cause the future molders of opinion
are now on your campus, we be-
lieve it is imperative that they be
sympathetic with our program.”

Of course it is the business of
the U, S: miliary to believe in the
imperativeness of their job. Shall
colleges lend their weight to such
beliefs?

The third protest of the 26 edu.
cators is against the increase in
military units on college campuses.
and, Max Otto. Dr. Cunningham This comes closest home. At pres-
states on page one that his stand|ent, however, R.O.T.C. is so inte-

is individual and directed less at grated into the life of Davidson that
the R.O.T.C. unit as at the seldom hears a murmur against

“War begins in the minds of
men.” So- reads a quotation from
UNESCO found in a recent state-
ment, “Militarism in Education,”
endorsed by twenty-six American
educators. These men _ protest
against three trends in American
universities and- colleges: First, and
primarily, increasing military sub.
sidization of science departments;
second, military propaganda di-
rected toward students and facul-
ty; and third, expanding military
training units.

The issues at stake are broader
for ws at Davidson than our R.O.T.
C. Unit or the fact that Dr, Cun-
ningham was among the twenty-six
signers, who included such men as
Albert Einstein, Pitirim, Sorokin,

trend toward government control of] its existence except in terms of
higher education. Tuesday afternoon. But in his
These twenty-six men make at| “Memories of Davidson,” Dr. Lin-
least two assumptions: that con-|gle writes, “R.O.T.C. is not in line
trol of college and university poli-} with the objectives for which the
cies by the U. S. Government would | college was founded and for which
tend to stfangle freedom of thought, it has been supported all
and that one task of educators is| years,”
to equip men's minds with the tools] For by the very presence of a
of making peace. Both of these pose} R.O.T.C. on this campus, David-
the question, Are the objectives of | son College is committed to the ac.
military preparedness compatible | tive preparation of this nation for
with the objectives of higher edu-| war. One can question if that is a
cation? function of a college, and of a
Professor Pinkney has recently] Christian college in particular. The
expressed his answer to this ques-| energies of Davidson students
tion in a letter to the Charlotte Ob-| might well be directed into more
server. Speaking of the Political] positive means of approaching the
Science Department, Professor | problem of world peace.
Pinkney “¢hallenges the assertion] Some will claim that the military
that the national military establish-| approach is the only effective one.
ments are attempting to ‘penerate Professor Pinkney, in his letter to
and influence the nation’s educa-| the Observer, writes, “It is beyond
tional life’.” my understanding how anyone can
‘Data included with the statement | assert in effect that we hold the
of the twenty-six educators, how-| key to peace by other than military
ever, seems to indicate the con-| preparedness.” I am no student «
trary, First, concerning government] the international situation, but I
programs of research in the colleg-| wonder if that is the only key. If it
es and universities: Last year these] is, then the door to peace will sure-
programs involved 150 institutions | ly never open to us. We have long
and 440 graduate students and tried the negative approach to
scientists. Over $81,000,000 was] peace — preparedness, which now
awarded, an amount double that} as never before is only a makeshift .
awarded . two years ago. In one] until some positive force can be
large university, “approximately 99] brought to bear in erasing war.
per cent of the funds being spent} Such a positive force, perhaps, is
on research are supplied by the] evident in the recent “world-wide
Navy. “And the hand that pays the! Marshal Pian” of Senator McMa-
piper calis the tune—each of these | hon.
research programs is directed to.| In brief, the extent of military
ward goals which the War Depart-| influence in colleges all over the na-
ment specifies. In the words of ation may inevitably direct the
certain Colonel Fink, “we .want to] thoughts of students into a decep-.
be sure this research work gives] tive acquiescence to “whatever the
us end items that will be used by] military big wigs decide is best,” :
field Army in the near future.” So does war begin—“in the minds
An example of “military propa- | of men.” And this is the concern of
ganda” is scen in a letter written] a college. As UNESCO continues,
to college presidents by Air Force} “Since war begins in the minds of
General J. T. Henley in 1948. The| men, it is in the minds of men that
letter requests the help of the presi. | the defenses of peace must be con-
dents in securing “unofficial laison | structed.”

Letter to the Editor .

“Thanks Dr. Cunningham”

Editor, The Davidsonian:

One of the most enjoyable so-
cial events of the year was spent
of. the Campus ‘this past week. Dr.
and Mrs. Cunningham invited the
Y.M.C.A,. cabinet to their home
Friday evening at 6:45 for a dessert
party. =.

“Met by Dr. Cunningham, each
guest was first introduced to Mrs.
Cunningham and then discussion
began concerning every phase of
campus life. Dr Cunningham dis-
cussed plans for the continuation
of the development program, the
proposed locations for the new
dormitory, and possibilities and con-
cepts of a Student Union building,
In the warm atmosphere of the
meeting I seemed to sense one of
those qualities that make David.
son a more friendly school. In the
discussion, it was evident that
many improvements can and will
be made in the present system. But

these

this was not so much a “discus-
sion of progress” meeting as it was
an informal and sincere gesture on
the part of Dr. and Mrs. Cunning-
ham, in the midst of an extremely
heavy schedule, to get better ac-
quainted with the student body.
We tend to see many of the short
-comings of the administration and
faculty; but, with an understand-
ing and courteous leader, Dr. Cun-
ftingham, we should feet more free
to investigate and discuss problems,
rather than to doubt and complain.
This is only one in a series of
meetings that Dr. Cunningham has
with the president of the college.
meeting is only ong of many types
of contacts that the students have
with the president of the college.
. This is an expression of thanks to
them and a recognition of their
friendliness and interest in us. !
feel free to send this from the en-
tire Y.M.C.A, cabinet as well as
myself.—Robert C. Gay.

nation’s steel industry was forced
to shut down at great cost to the
mill owners and great loss of wages
to the workers. Railroad operations
was reduced as much as 50 pe:
cent in some sections, causing a
heavy loss of wages to those lab.
orers, as well as considerable in-
convenience to the general public.
Most of the large cities of the
North and East were forced to
“brown-out” as they had during
the war; schools were closed; and
homes were without heat in one of
the bitterest cdld waves of the
winter. All of the nation’s business
and industry, as well as homes and
farms, felt the pinch. All because
John L. Lewis was fighting for a
principle -— or lack thereof,
Through it all Mr. Truman re-
mained benevolently indifferent. It
is probably no exaggeration to say

that the Administration today is
just as much owned and controlled
by labor as that of Grant or Mc-
Kinley was owned and controlled
by big business. In waiting until the
nation was in a desperate crisis,
and killing the nation’s only rea-
Sonably effective weapon by apply-
ing the Taft-Hartley Act only un-
der circumstances that were pe-
culiarly conducive to its failure, Mr.
Truman placed himself in the same
class with the man whom he was
shielding. Be it said that the Taft-
Hartley Act failed in practice be-
cause the Administration wanted it
to fail. The case against the union
that was pfesented to the court in
ths injunction proceedings could
only be as strong as Truman want-
ed it to be. Consequently, the un-
ion was declared not guilty of con-
(Continued On Page Six)
