The frost on the pump-
kin having changed to the
winter's first snow, Crowell
Little and colleagues sat
sprawled in the stands like ~
sun-bathers, soaking up the
bright warmth of Johnston
Gymnasium, and watching
fellow worker Boyd Baird
whip his cagers through
their last week of pre-season
practice.

Mr. Little, whose merits shout so loudly that he may be in
demand for a coaching promotion despite the fact his first
Southern Conference club wound up with a 3-6 record, was
enjoying a few moments of leisure as rarely befall a football
coach. He was not, however, adverse to talking football, and
the subject, quite naturally, ‘was, ‘‘Well, the beginning has
been made. What next?’’

We, for one, wondered what help the Cat coach could
possibly expect from a freshman team which was walloped in
two outings, nipped in a third, and managed but one win—that
over a junior college team.

‘*No,” he alined us, ‘‘we aren’t disappointed in the ma-
terial on this year’s freshman team. There are a lot of potential
ball players in that lot, and a lot of potential help for next
year. The freshman team did not receive the time on its game
that it should have; it worked primarily as a scrimmage club
against us, learning different plays and formations every week.
There swaan’t time enough to devote to the molding of a well-
organized unit among them.”’

It is encouraging to note that our skipper can see through
with the trained eve where the average onlooker watches only
the team.and can see down the line where the frosh influx is
going to pad his varsity. But even to the untrained eye, it
wasn’t hard to see that boys like Boy Loy, Neale Graham, Mal-
phus Bradbury, and Tex Coulter cannot be 46 points inferior
to the best material Furman or N. C. State can boast. They
simply boast three or four teams of the same.

Also, Davidson wasn’t hurting for a ‘‘loaded” freshman
team this fall, anyway. Not to say that we can't always use one,
but the real recruiting drive need not come before this winter.
Only nine of thirty-nine varsity members are leaving via grad-
uation. Brandon, Carlton, Blanks, Kelly, Davis, Wilson, Lam-
beth, Leach, and Rogers are listed as seniors, but only six were
playing starting ball, offensively or defensively. Little, then,
ean fill in where he needs to, and come up with a pretty nice
little club.

‘‘The freshmen will give us a big squad to pick from,’” he
pointed out, ‘‘and that is the only way ‘we can hope to get any
depth.’’ That, as Hugo can tell you, is where we were lacking
this year.

The only game Davidson went into this year in which she
could have been called the favorite was the Erskine game. The
Presbyterian contest was a toss-up at the most. Yet they came
away with three wins, the most convincing the 39-0 trouncing
of Richmond. ‘‘We could have won one or two more games,
I believe,” thought Little. He didn’t say which but yon can
guess possibly he meant the Furman game in which we blew
them three touchdowns in the final period, and the Citadel game
which swith the payoff of a long drive we wouldn't have made
a liar of our good friend Bill Stern.

CAT
TALES

By Bill White

‘‘The squad didn’t quite come up to what I had hoped for,”’
the Cat coach continued, ‘‘but the system was new and injuries
didn’t help. A bigger school can lose two or three men and
not feel it particularly. We lose two or three and they have to
play crippled. Who is going to take their place? Jack Branch
being hurt really hurt; MeNeely responded to treatment slow-
ly; C. L. was only at half strength the last half of the season;
Auburn was hurt off and on enough to give him and us con-
siderable trouble; and Hoopie Davis played a lot of ball with
that hurt foot. An injured man just can’t put out at top
strength.’’

*‘Then don’t forget we have three ineligible boys who will
really help us next year.’’ That trio would be Bill Stanley, Bill
Rowland, and J. N. Golding. There’s not a man on the campus
whe needs to be impressed with Bulling Bill Stanley’s ball play-
ing ability. His grades are slowly but surely and steadily rising
and it appears that he will play a lot of fullback next fall. Bill
Rowland needs no introduction, either. He’s a quarterback who
had Jack Ruth sitting on the bench part of the time their fresh-
man year, and it will be interesting to watch those two duel

TD

TT TE ee PSS ===

PAGE FOUR ~

TRAPPING TAR HEELS—Mapping strategy for tomorrow night’s
opener with North Carolina’s Tar Heels—or more probably posing

for a picture—are three gentlemen on whose shoulders rest a great
deal of the basketball fortunes for the Wildcats this winter. Speak-

ildeal Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

a

ON NEN

Chesterfield Basketball and Handball Play

SPORTS QUIZ

1. Virginia's great fullback
Johnny Papit set what record
as his team unexpectedly
crushed the University of

Shifts Into High In Frat League

By DICK LILES
Now that.the bloody, back-breaking, head-busting football

North Carolina at Charlottes-| season is over, the Jolly Greeks have settled down to their

ville last Saturday afternoon?

What teams—aside from the
Big Four representatives—
will participate in the Dixie

Classic tournament in Ral-
eigh in December?

Who was recently named the
Southern Conference foot-
ball player of the year?
Name the man whom Ezzard
Charles KO'd in the eleventh
round of his heavy-weight
title defense scrap Tuesday
night.

Answers should be turned in to

for the post. Golding is a junior college transfer who worked | Dave Moylan in C-East. This week's
out ‘with the freshmen all fall, and will come up seeking a spot| winner will be anounced in next

at end.

week’s Davidsonian.

Se

ay

The Best Dressed Men At Davidson Wear

Jack Wood, Lid.
CLOTHES

°
e
e

It Costs No More To Dress Correctly

winter program of interfraternity athletics which ineludes
basketball and handball only wntil later on in the winter. The
basketball season is yet young with only two games being played

— a ae a Lo. _
ing to his co-captains is Coach Boyd Baird, identifiable by the white
T-shirt of authority. For the co-eds in the student body, that’s Tom-
my Haller on the left and Dutch Hengeveld on the right, both seniors.

before the deadline of the paper.
In the first tilt the Kappa Sigs
edged out a rebounding Beta squad
in somewhat of a grudge match
to offset the earlier football de-
feat. The final whistle sounded
with the score at 44-42 with Eric

lark netting 17 points for the

inning Sigs, Jack Ruth sank 13
followed closely by Bob Nimocks
with 12. The score at halftime was
25-16, with the Sigs in front.

In the other game the Pi Kapps
overwhelmed a comparatively weak
Campus Club five by a record-break.
ing score of 102-31. Arnold Whis-
nant led the victors with 28 points,
while Murray Remson helped the
losing cause with 19. This game
probably set a few records be-
cause of the high scoring.

The handball tournament started
Monday and has been progressing
well. As yet no one has listed the
results, so none are available at

this time. The matches are played
at 4 o'clock every afternoon and
a single and double game is neces»
sary for the match.

This already looks like one of
the best seasons in many years for
intramurals with more interest
being taken in the games, more
familiarity with handball, and bet-
ter organization and _ officiating.
The basketball season promises to
be one of many surprises and up-
sets. A little limb-clinging would
be appropriate, so the Pi Kapps get
a vote of confidence to be close to
the top when the season closes.
They have several veterans and
strengthened with several outstand-
ing newcomers. The Kappa Sigs
are nearly as strong as last year,
but have lost the services of Al
Fitzgerald to the varsity squad.
The Phi Delts and the KA’s will

(Continued On Page Five)

Tanks Take Plunge
Into First Season
With The Citadel

Davidson's first swimming team
takes its plunge into varsity col-
legiate competition Saturday night,
meeting the Citadel tankers in the
Cadet pool at 7:30.

Gaptained by Bill Ray, sprint
specialist from Silver Springs, Fla.,
the Cat swimmers move into the
sport against nine Southern Con-
Sevonce -feee- one-siturt’ year’ ane
its inavguration on the Davidson
campus.

Paced by Ray on the 50 and 100,
the Cat fish can boast some talent-
ed depth in Ken Taylor and Hugh
Evans—both returnees, and new-
comer Dan Heizer. The vastly im-
proved performance of Francis
Pepper, who has shaved some thir-
ty full seconds off his best 1949-50
440 time, strengthens the David.
sonians at a point which Coach
Dick Redding feared would be
their weakest. Sharing the 220 and
440 duties with the Winston-Salem
junior will be Paul Cole, Evans, and
Jim Bryan. ;

Local boy Ray Cunningham 46
looked to for big things in the’ 200
yard backstroke, swimming with

(Continued On Page Six)

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK:

One year ago Davidson basket-
ball fans were wondering what ever
would happen to the Scrappy Cats
when Mr. Scrap himself, Whit Cobb
had dribbled down the court for the
last time. Tuesday night, the young
man charged with the job of tak.
ing Cobb's place went a long way
toward answering that question in
an optimistic vein.

That is why Malcolm (Mac) Mc.
Lean is the Daviasoman’s first
basketballing Athlete of the Week.

When N. C, State swarmed over
the Wildcats in the opening min-
utes of the Cats’ season opener,
they were enough to rattle a veteran
traffic cop with their flailing arms
and all legs whizzing around Boyd's
Boys, but Mac refused to ruffle.
He handled the ball with poise and
finesse, worked on the receiving
end of Dutch Hengeveld'’s long
down-court passes wonderfully
well, and as a result the Pack

soon gave up the pressing game.
The Charlotte junior was also
largely responsible for Davidson’s

I,

a

7)

7 q

= _
| XA

MAC McLEAN

i

sticking so close to the out-of-this.
stratosphere Wolfpack throughout
the first half, bagging nine points
before intermission. He added three
the second semester to take second
high honors behind Bill Brooks.
In doing so, Mac continued the
vastly improved shooting which he
began showing in the practice ses-
sions with Catawba and Columbia
seminary.

As a guard, he is becoming a
top shot, but still knows the func-
tions of his position. The unbeliev.
ers may check with State’s Hot-
Sam Ranzino for verification. The
zone got the overall credit for hold-
ing Sammy to ’way his lowest to-
tal of the season-—10 where he Had
been averaging 31l—but McLean
was the big gun in defense, His
first half was one of his best in
college, and he seems capable of
making that type performance a
habit.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950

TARHcerS HcRE TOMORROW RIGHT

Johnston Gym Test
Very Likely To Be
High Scoring Tiff

You can be sure it will be a
high-scoring game Saturday night
in Johnston gym when Davidson's
Wildcats clash with Carolina's
White Phantoms in one of the early
Southern Conference games of the
season, Coach Tom Scott’s Tar-
Heels have played several exhibi-
tion games so far this year, and
they have consistently been rolling
up points. The Wildcats, although
they have lost to State, scored fifty-
three markers against the pack, and ‘
they also will be out to continue
their scoring ways.

A return to form by Bill Brooks
and Tommy Haller has helped the
Cats immensiey so far this season.
Haller, playing only a portion of
the game hit for twelve points
against Columbia Seminary Monday
night. Mac McLain, who has taken
over Whit Cobb's guard post, has
looked good in both games, espe-
cially against State when he tallied
twelve points. Dutch Hengeveld,
not quite hitting with his usual ac.
curacy, has nevertheless played
very consistant basketball and has
been one of the ace Cat rebound.
ers thus far. If T. C. Coleman, Bill
Proctor, Al Fitzgerald, and Bob
Graham can reach their top form,
the Cats could be most dangerous.
Bob Turk, who missed the pre-
season practices because of foot-
ball, is finding his shooting eye,
and guards Jim Smith and Don
Lazenby are coming up fast with
their fine passing and rebounding.
The Cats: have looked good defen-
sively—one of their feats was hold.
ing State’s Sam Ranzino to ten
points; they are also very fast. A
usual lack in height is being made
up for in spirit and hustle, and
perhaps these could mean a win
over Carolina.

The Tarheels have most of their
squad of a year ago back, and
they are fine marksmen with plenty
of height. Hugo Kappler, one of
the best~forwards in the conference,
will be out with a broken wrist,
but the Phantoms will get plenty
of support from guards Howard
Deazy and Charlie Thorne and
forward Vince Grimaldi. Thorn is
the tricky guard -who played so
well against the Cats last year, and
Grimaldi is a flashy soph from
Philadelphia who was an ace on
last year’s fine freshman team.

The game will be a match be.
eween twe bigh scoring teams, but
the difference will be made some-
where between the height of the
White Phantoms and the scrap of
the Cats. It will be an interesting
night for any Southern Conference
fan present,

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

DAVIDSON
| THRATAR

Shows Start at 8 P. M.

Mon..Tues., Dec. 11.12
‘ALL ABOUT EVE’
Bette Davis - George Sanders
LATEST WAR NEWS

Wednesday, Dec. 13
’ CHAMPAGNE FOR

Ronald Coleman - Celeste Holm
CARTOON

Thursday, Dec. 14

‘SUNSET BOULEVARD
William Holden . Gloria Swanso
CARTOON

Friday, December 15

CARTOON

Saturday, Dee. 16
‘DEVIL'S DOORWAY’

Robert Taylor - Lewis Calhern
COMEDY & CARTOON

