PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF -7..-..----.--—-----~------- GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER ....-..-.--.----.-.------- JOHN LOFTIN
EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editors .....-.---.. Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Senior Editors ~..-.---.. Bill Crmming, Dan McKeithen, Bill Hollister
Features Editor ....-..-.----.-.---.--.----------+------ Arnie Covell
Managing Editors -..-.-...- Pete Kalogridis, Tom Abel, Bill Adams,

George McMurray, Ed Richardson, Shelley Beard

Sports Editor—Bill White Photographs——-Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen Proofreader—Charlie Baldwin

City Editor—Nat Daniel Columnist—John Hobart
BUSINESS STAFF

‘Assistant Business Manager --.---....--.------+--------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager .---.--------------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager ---.....------—. ----------------+ -Ansley Moses

Jack Turner
Bill Hart

Collections Manager
Subscriptions Manager

~__ Adopting a Platform

Ever since the Davidsonian staff ‘‘turned over’’ late last
Spring numerous inquiries have come to us about what the
paper is planning to do this year—are we going to inject any
new blood in it? ... are wwe going to take a stand on any num-
ber of controversial issues here at the College and even in the
international scene? The general answer to all of these inquiries
is that the Davidsoniun plans to continue, for the most part, the
pattern which was followed last year, in which the paper en-
joyed its best year since and probably before the war.

Immediately many will accuse us of complacency and. lack
of initiative, and justly so, except for the phrase in the above
sentence—‘‘for the most part.” The Davidsonian will continue
to be published weekly, be circulated on Friday night (barring
wnavoidable delays), contain six pages in each issue, ete. But
that’s as far as we are going. Time alone sill tell what other
improvements, additions and omissions will occur in the paper.
But if we don’t do one other thing this year, the Davidsonian
is going to have a policy and a platform composed of well chosen
planks—planks which we believe will lead to a better Davidson.

In Dr. Abernethy’s now-famous blast against extracurri-
cular activities in general here at Davidson, and against the
Davidsonian in particular, he mentioned the obvious fact that
the schovl paper had no policy in its editorials. In an effort to
take care of this glaring deficiency, the Editor in Chief and As-
sociate Editors of the paper plan to meet in the immediate fu-
ture in an effort to draw up several points which we believe will
provide food for thought among the students, and further
strengthen Davidson's claim to the title of the South’s foremost
liberal arts school.

What this platform consists of will be largely the result
of thinking and planning by the heads of the paper and their
ideas may differ from those of many students or they may omit
items which should be included. For this reason, and because
we firmly believe that the Davidsonian should be a medium
through which every student can express his views, we are ask-
ing anyone who has any carefully thought-out ideas which he
believes will make for a better Davidson, to swrite a letter to
the Editor within the next day or so. Naturally, all ideas and
opinions can not be used, but any communication from any stu-
dent will be carefully considered. None of the letters will be
published in the Davidsonian unless the writer expressly re-
quests that it be.

This is a chance for every student to have a chance to pre-
sent his ideas on how Davidson can be a better school and a
chance for all of the chronic complainers’ and fault-finders to |.
get some action taken on their suggestions. Of course, the
Davidsonian cannot guarantee any results from anything it may
support—in fact we would be satisfied if action were taken on
even two or three items out of perhaps a ten-point platform.
Regardless of the results, .ve are firm in our purpose to bring
‘before the student body and faculty any points which we Be-
lieve to be worthy of consideration and adoption by the powers
that be.

wwe e anes wee ee esns eee ese sooroesesee

Illegal Rushing

As long as the Pan Hellenic Council, acting for the social
fraternities, continues the policy during rush week of having
no informal bidding—or hothoxing—there are going to be gripes
and rumors to the effect that one or a number of fraternities
were guilty of what is known as ‘‘dirty rushing.” The purpose of
this editorial is not to comment on the advisability of formal or
informal bidding, but rather to propose that some different and
more effective method of handling groups reported guilty of
dirty rushing be put into effect.

The way it ~vas set up this year was simple enough—any
fraternity that suspected another guilty of this offense would
turn them in to the Pan Hellenic Council and the offending
Greeks would be fined $50.00. This plan is as full of holés as
a piece of rat cheese and here is a very good illustration to prove
this statement. A fraternity on the campus which pledged one
of the largest groups of freshmen last week had three of their
pledges to tell their rush chairman that they had all been ‘‘hot-
boxed’’ by the same fraternity. This rush chairman reported
the incident to the Pan Hellenic Council, where upon they con-
tacted the President of the accused fraternity. Quite naturally,
the President denied that any hotboxing had gone on in his group
ond as a result the case was dropped. Any method of enforce-
ment with no more teeth in it than this is little more than a
farce. We do not blame the Pan Hellenic Council, for they did
—under the principles of the Honor System—all that they could.
When the offense was denied by the obviously guilty fraternity,
the Pan Hell could do no more.

‘What we jwould like to propose is this: as long as informal
bidding is not allowed here on the campus, there should be each
year a committee of eleven men—one from each fraternity to
be appointed by its president—which would be given the re-
sponsibility of enforcing the law against dirty rushing. Any
fraternity which suspects another of violating the law would re-

ce
Oo EEO
ge epee
1

1949-50.)

Now that the storm of rush week area. This isn’t fair to the rushee.

is over and the dust has settled
on our feet, lets sit back and com-
ment on a few of the tactics. As
past-president of the Pan-Hellenic
Council, I would like to give a few
of my own comments on rushing.

Last year rush week was divided
over the week-end. This, we all
know, brought about many com-
plications and phases of so-called
“dirty rushing.” To Bill Klein, I'd
like to compliment him for his
judgment on this particular prob-
lem. He and his council installed
a straight week of rushing. But,
however, despite the scare of a $50
fine for any offense of “dirty rush-
ing,’’ it still occurred. It’s not fair
to the other fraternities, it’s not
fair to the otlver boys in your own
fraternity, and it’s not fair to the
prospective rushee to tempt him in
any such manner. It occurred last
year during rush week, again this
year, and unless something is done,
it will occur in the future. I should
like to suggest that a more rigid en-
forcement of this rule, be made by
the Pan-Hellenic Council. ;

Also, I would like to recommend
the exclusion of afternoon dates
during the Rush Week period. This
would benefit both fraternities and
rushees. Speaking for the freshman,
they are all earnest to get off on
the right foot in school so why
not give them a little time to get
their school work done. And, then,
on the other hand, the turn-out for
afternoon rush dates is pitiful. But
what more could .you expect, what
with football practice, labs and aft-
ernoon classes controlling the ma-
jority of the students in the after-
noon. From my observation, these
afternoon dates tend to be more
of a liability than an asset. The
fraternity brothers don’t turn out
in their mass numbers, shifting a
great burden on those who are
present, trying to make the hour
as enjoyable as possible for the
rushees. And, from the other side,
the rushee sees the lack of at-
tendance at the dates by the brothers
and asserts immediately to himself
that there couldn’t be much to this
fraternity because of the lack of
interest they take in us.

I would also recommend that
girls be excluded from these rush
parties. I can hear the mumble of
the Student Body now for that, but
first let me prove my point. The
way I see it, the rushees come to
the houses to meet the fraternity
brothers. They don’t come to meet
the girls. But, unless I'm mistaken,
this is, usually what happens. The
fraternity brothers “flock” to the
new “nuveens’’ on the campus and
forget there ever was such a thing
as Rush Week - “going on. As a re-
sult, the rushee is usually left alone
in some dark corner reading any
kind of magazine he can find in his

WAX SCRATCHING

By BOB WHELESS

Hi fetlows! Here’s a new column
that I hope you'll be browsing
through every week from now on.
It’s purpose is to keep you in the
know on all the new releases.

Let's get things going with Gor-
don Jenkin's most recent contribu-
tion to the platter market. Jenkins,
whose “Tzena, Tzena” is holding
down one of the middle spots on
the Hit Parade and shows promise
of going still higher, has a sure
thing in “You’re Mine, You” backed
by a novel arrangement of an oldie
“I'm Forever Blowing Bubbies.”
Artie Shaw was called in to give
an added lift to both sides, and
when Artie’s clarinet is combined
with the orchestration and choral
work Jenkins i is so famous for, ter-
rific is the only word that will
describe the results.

Anyone who saw the movie, ‘’Tea
For Two,” will te? you that Doris
Day was at her singiny best. In her
album by the same name she com-
bines with Axel Stardahi,.The Page
Cavanaugh Trio and The Ken Lane
Trio to turn ‘out six of the

TE DAVES ONAN DAVIDSONIAN

RUSH WEEK FORUM

(Editors Note: The Davidsonian is running this week and next
week: two articles on rush week from a personal view point. This
week's article is written by Bill Bird, Pan Hellinic President in

nor is it fair to the brothers. The
rushee in this instance isn't getting
a line on his brothers-to-be nor are
the brothers meeting the rushees
properly. The rushee should judge
as well as be judged. Let me say
also that this would be a good
slogan for the fraternities in the fu-
ture to follow.

Now for a major point. Person-
ally, I would like to see rushing
postponed until the second semes-
ter. By this process, it would
give both the rushee and fraternity
ample time to know each other and
what to expect from each other.
As it now stands, it is a mass jum-
ble of meeting boys (and shaking
hands) and trying to figure out
which one has been the nicest to
you and which one had the best
punch. You can’t meet people and
know in a week’s time that they
are the ideal group for you your
next four years in school. It can’t
be done. But it is being done. I am
sure that for both parties involved
second semester rushing would be
more ideal. But having second
semester rushing will conflict with
the boarding house situation of a
majority of the fraternities on the
campus, Some boarding house man-
agers say they can't run unless they
have the help of the freshmen. In
other cases they say that they'll
have to raise the price of board
without freshman help. This issue
has legitimate excuses on both
sides. As to the outcome all we
can do is sit back and weigh both
sides. Along with this second semes-
ter rushing, I know there would
be numerous cases of dirty rush-
ing unless some plan is devised to
eliminate it. However, a particular
school I have in mind does it with
very little or no offense from either
the fraternity or the rushee. How-
ever, with the second semester
tushing it would be a great temp-
tation for either party. If this
method were to be used, it would
be necessary for all freshmen to
room together and live aside from
fraternities until rushing Started.

And, last, but not least, the strong
fraternities would tend to grow
stronger and the weaker fraterni-
ties weaker. Why? Because, as we
say, all the good boys would join
the fraternities which were the
Strongest and the weaker fraterni-
ties would get the less outstanding
boys. I am afraid a situation like
this would tend to bring friction
between the fraternities. And this
is not what we are after. After all,
the Intra-Mural Program gives us
enough to fight for, why have an
added incentive.

In closing let me congratulate
each rushee and fraternity for their
choice and also Bill Klein and the
Pan-Hellenic Council for a tough
job well done.

smoothest numbers she has ever re-
corded, even rivaling her work in
“Young Man With a Horn,”

Frankie Lane seems to have c-ime
up with another hit with his etch-
ing of “Music Maestro, Pleas-,’
coupled with “Dream a_ Little
Dream of Me.” “Music” is a tear-
jerking rendition about a guy who's
out to forget about “her,” while
“Dream’’? has a speedier tempo,
which accomplishes nothing but fill-
ing up the “B” side of a platter.
The tear-jerking side should go

Perry Como’s “ Patricia’’ appears
to be slowly catching on, but prob-
ably will never climb very high
chiefly because of its limited ap-
peal. This Irish type waltz may be
alright with fellows who have gals
named Pat, and possibly with the
bar and tavern crowd. Nothing to
get excited about!

Next week I'll be back with news
of releases by Sarah Vaughan,
Doris Day, George Shering, Kay
Starr, Don Cherry and many others.

See you then.

port this to the committee. The committee would approach the
leader of the accused fraternity for an answer to the charges
and then the fraternity would be on trial before the committee.
After reviewing all of the evidence and circumstances surround-
ing the case, the committee would vote by secret ballot to de-
termine the guilt or innocence of the offender. If guilty, the frat-
ternity would be fined not less than $50.00 or more than $100.00.

Theoretically there should be no need for any sort of en-
forcement of the law against dirty rushing. But as long as cer-
tain fraternities continue to use illegal methods to coerce fresh-
men and transfers into joining their particular group ‘while
other groups are making an honest effort to abide by the law,
some effective means of enforcement must be established for
dealing with offenders. Obviously, the plan used this year falls
short of this need, and unless corrective measures are taken
before next year, there is no end to the amount of ill-will and
resentment that will spring up among the fraternities.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1950

THE POLL CAT

What length rush week do you favor?
3 days—25 per cent; 4 days—17 per cent; 5 days—58

per cent.

Do you favor night and afternoon rushing?

Night and afternoon — 20 per cent; night only — 80

per cent.

Would yon be willing to return to school early for

rush week?

Yes—20 per cent; no 80 per cent.

Ballard Discusses Draft

Within the past few weeks, the
provisions of the National Selective
Service Act of 1948, as extended in
1950, largely dormant for over a
year, have returned to public view
in full force. The ages particularly
affected at this time are those he-
tween 19 and 25 years. Because the
lower part of this bracket focuses
upon college students, and because
the average college student docs
not have available as complete in-
formation on the subj.ct as he
would like, a few thoughts here per-
haps will be helpful.

First, every male nust régister
with his local draft board when he
attains the age of 18: however, he
is not subject to being drafted unti!
he is 19 years of age. As soon as the
student in college receives notice
from his draft board that he is to
appear for physical examination, he
should write his draft board back
home and request that the case be
transferred to Selective Service
Board No. 61, Mecklenburg County,
North Carolina. The home-town
draft board will grant this request,
and then the student must report
to the Mecklenburg Board, on the
new date set by that Board, take
the physical examination, regardless
of whether his induction is to be
postponed. This is for the reason
that, if he is found to be physically
disqualified, his name can be re-
moved once and for all. Should the
college student be approved for in-
duction, the actual induction will be
transferred back to the home-tuwn
board for application against that
board’s quota.

Second, in the beginning, the Di-
rector of Selective Service, in im-
plementing the law. ruled that once
a student entered upon an academic
year of college, his induction would
be postponed ufitil the end of the
particular academic year. Recently,
this has been superseded by a rul-
ing that: (1) if a student had com-
pleted one year of college, and (2)
ranks ‘in the academic upper hall
of his class, the Selective Service
Board may (not “will’) postpone
the student's induction until tie
end of the particular academic year.

Third, the fact that a college stu-
dent is in the ROTC, either’the ba-

sic or even the advanced course,| :
does not in itself have any bearing | ;
upon his draft status. This status is|

altered only when the ROTC stu-
dent has been selected: for defer-
ment. At that time, the PMS&T is
required to transmit this informa-
tion to the appropriate board via
an NME Form 4, “Military Status
of Individual.” The draft classifica-
tion of the student is thus changed.
The sending of the form is appar-
ently not widely understood, . be-
cause requests for transmittal there-
of have been received from indivi-
duals not entitled to them, and
from parents or guardians.

Fourth, “deferment” means that
the Government will allow the
student to finish college if (1) he
will agree to accept a commission
in the reserve infantry upon gradu-
ation, and (2) if he will agree to
serve on active duty for not less
than two years as a co.wmissioned
officer, subject to the call of the
Secretary of the Army. It should
be pointed out here /that, at the
present time, no non-deferred stu-
dent who completes the ROTC
course is required to take a reserve
commission, Moreover, should that
student decline the offer of a com-
mission, he is not required to
make reimbursement of any sort
to the Government.

Fifth, allotments of deferment
agreements for cach of the 4 clas-
ses are made available by the Third
Army Headquarters at the begin-
ning of the year. The present
strengths of the ROTC classes, and
the respective allotments, are:

Class = Def.
En. Quota
Seniors 45
Juniors . $5 100
Sophomores 198 140
Freshmen 232 100
Total 530 340

Sixth, deferment selections are
to be made by the PMS&T, based
solely upon recommendations of a

By COLONEL J. L. BALLARD

“deferment board.” By law, two
assistants PMS&T and one civil-
ian faculty member comprise the
board. The composition of the
board is: Major Sample, Chairman:
Dr. Puckett, and Captain Martin.
From the chart above, it will be
noted that no competition exists
in the top classes. As for the two
lower classes, the board will act
on the sophomores very shortly. Se-
lections will be based tipon many
factors, including scholarship, lead-
ership and general aptitude. Se-
lection of Freshmen is required
by law for the start of the second
semester, and will be based upon
the sanie factors, plus the score on
a general intelligence test, prepar-
ed by the Department of the Army
and administered by the Military
Department of the college.

Tlie case of a deferment granted
a basic coursé student who later
fails to be selected for the ad-
vanced course should be mention-
ed. The deferment agreement, will
of course be cancelled by the
Government. Also, the deferment

time, in any case of ‘insa. Hfactory
performance,

A number of special cases or
Situations have arisen, : and un-
doubtedly others will. The follow-
ing cases are of interest:

1. ROTE students finishing one
year ahead of academic class:
there are séveral of these. If the
student has already signed defer-
ment agreements, he will continue
to be deferred until he completes
college. At that time, he would
receive a commission so would not
be drafted.

2, ROTC Advance Course Stu-
dents in Enlisted Reserve Corps
( of any service): provided he has
signed a deferment agreement,
his call to active duty is to be
delayed, upon his own application
to his reserve unity Note that no
student in the basic course is af-
fected.

3. Certain types of further school-
ing: Graduates of the advanced

(Continued On Page Five)

agreement may be cancelled at

Howe Green, NIAN | RUSH WEEK FORUM [Strrmrremrrrrrrnrrrr™™" Howe Groen, The
Freshman Farce

ARCHI BALL HANENKASH

This column is dedicated to the
freshman class, a low form of
animal life created by nature in
an hour of complete frustration.
Here, bouncing awkwardly down
one of the many beautiful tree-lined
lanes on the campus, comes a typi-
cal example of one of natures few
miscalculations, Howe Green, his
head resting serenely in the clouds.
At this moment, through a ritt in
the mist, he sees his classmate, Joe
Stoop. bent over with laundry bigs.
Immediately he starts toward Joe
by the chortest possible route.
ACROSS THE GRASS! He is sud-
denly awakened by the soothing
command, “Off tha: grass, you
simple fr-shman.’’ tWowe’s only
onswer is “Yes, sir” as he huriies
to the nerrest walk. “Hey, Joe wio
did you have dates with last nighs,”’
he says as he finally catches his
best friend? “What dates? You
know 1 don’t know any gir!s here.

Say, do you realize there are only
twelve more days of rushing?
Wasnt it nice of the Pan-Hell
Council to give us a month of rush-
ing to decide which fraternity is
good enough for us?” “Yes, and
its swell of them to give us all day
Saturday ‘to walk down to the fra-
ternity houses,” adds Joe.

“Hey, how about that ‘cake
race’ tomorrow? Crip race, I call
it. We freshmen probably will set
a lot of new records out there.”
“T hear it’s over two miles long,”
answers Howe dubiously. “Holy
cow,” says Joe, “I’ve got to hurry
up and take this laundry, ‘cause
that upperclassman told me to get
back on the double to shine some
shoes. mu see you at the race to-
morrow.’

The next afternoon, as the frosh
line up to start the race, Howe
Green nvdges his pal, J>e, and whiis-
pers, “Let's run it at top speed.”
At that moment Coach Whittle
blows his whistle, and the whole
freshman class charges off, with
Howe and Joe Jeading the pack.
After a minute, Joe laughs, ‘‘Boy,
this is a snap! Downhill all the
way.” “Yes,” says Howe, “we'll
outdistance everybody else easily.

A moment later, having made the
turn at Erwin’s Lodge, Howe sud-
denly gasps, “Hey, Joe, I’m pooped.
Let’s take it a little easier.” As they
start up the hill, they realize they
are slowing down. Soon our heroes
are alone in the rear. Painfully,
they walk to the top of the hill.
No one is in sight at the cross-
roads. “Which way did the rest go,”

‘panted Joe? They must have gone
to tle left,” answers his pal.

Hours later, hot, tired and de-
jected, they stop to read a sign:
‘‘Davidson—8 miles!’’ At that mo-
ment, it begins to rain.

| scenes
Pee.

Venderbils Center
Vanderbilt University
Neshville, Tennessee

In Nashville, Tennessee, there is
always a friendly gathering of
Vanderbilt University students at
the Vanderbilt Center on the cam-
us. And as in universities every-
have, ice-cold Coca-Cola helps
make these get-togethers something
to remember. As a refreshing pause
from the study grind, or on a Satur-
day night date—Coke belongs.
Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

AUTHORITY
CONCORD COOA-OOLA, BOTTLING OO,

© 1950, The Coce-Cola Company

