PAGE TWO

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

GORDON SCOTT

EDITOR IN CHIEF .....--..--------------

BUSINESS MANAGER ....--- ------------- JOHN LOFTIN.
Associate Editors -...---- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hail
Features Editor ...--...-..--- ------.----------- Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .... .--- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

. McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager ...----------------------- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager ------.--------------- Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager .-.-.------------------------- Ansley Moses
Collections Manager .---.------------------------- Jack Turner

Subscriptions Manager ..------------- ----------------- Bill Hart

Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C.. under the Act of March 3, 1897,

No Excuses This Year

About this time each year, students have become ac
customed to contributing money to the Y.M.C.A. Christ-
mas Gift Fund drives; indeed, the response has been
so good that in recent years the goal has heen exceeded
by a substantial sum. There is no reason to think that
this year’s contributions will not go beyond the proposed —
goal of $5000.00. -

* Whe decision of the ‘‘Y’’ leaders to raise money this
year to help the Negroes of Davidson help themselves to
improve their housing conditions was a wise one and one
which will leave no room for three major criticisms that

similar drives had had in past years—

1

2 1. A number of students have not given as freely as they
-™ might have (some gave nothing) because they felt that it
“26 was senseless to give money to various overseas causes
tliv when there is so much need here at’ home,

ain .

Miw2. Prior to this year, there were many veterans in the

tanistudent body who found it difficult to so soon forget their

4d horrible experiences with the Germans and Japanese and

i. awho therefore were not willing to contribute money which

soitvould be.used to help these people. We are not saying
that their attitude was right or wrong but mention it only

tloyhecause it is a fact.

-bigyl

bens Finally, some hesitated about giving money when it

6 yould be impossible to see the benefits which it made
y ‘possible in some far-off land. It is true that pictures have

bacbeeh received showing improvements which were made
" iti recent drives through the generosity of Davidson men,

nowt nevertheless there was no assurance of this at the

10 }? HM the money was actually collected.

ni Thus, it would appear that this year there is no good
-o2z19q . + .
reasoy why Davidson students should not participate in
tlisodrive 100 per cent—the money will be used in this
comwmnuiiity, it will not aid persons with whom the United
Stites 'tas been at war, and the results of the campaign
will be''easily recognizable to anyone who will take the
t guile fo cross the railroad tracks in a few months.
sect Natbing needs to be said about conditions, etc., ex-
istehtvdmong the Negroes of Davidson—a wealth of ma-
ten these facts appears elsewhere in the paper. It is
alm Ainbelievable to most of us that such conditions
oO siege? Di .
conlsh eRist not 50 yards from the campus. To obtain a full
realjantion of this fact one needs to see for himself, and
thal wihmt we would urge each student to do sometime
with i*the" next few days.
ot alls.

goo
e -
Bone ot Contention
rg closing weeks of school last Spring, it was
announced by the President’s office that a committee had
been S&ed from the faculty to study student-faculty
relati determine if these relations are all that they

might ba ,and to recommend possible steps which might
be t OfHffimprove them. We assume that the commit-
tee is functioning and would like to give them a major
berfe of eonttntion among the students to chew on.

i THyte i¢'3 small element in the faculty, say 5 per cent,
ville deem foi take great delight in scheduling reviews and
WEHta 4f,.MpAf,snopportune times from the students’ view-
point, such as the Monday after a dance week-end, or the
dey xilex Adoliday, ete. This group may say that their
veetkois setowp.so that these are the only possible times
torvem ahesbrain power of the students. Others may say
thib d°atudit''is in Davidson first and foremost to get
alleles oat ‘ind nothing must interfere ‘with the pro-

72981 21Q 2 SINUS

feagors attempts to see that they get one.
guint. a fact that many of the professors do have their
coursesyoutiinedOfar in advance, and when it comes time
tétgive a'veview' they feel that nothing should stand in the
wey writ, We edhnot argue this, but we can bring forward
the £4 that 99 per cent of the professors seem to be able
to ached reviews at times which meet with the students’
appreved. As.faroas being here to get an education goes,
nathiag-neadds.:tovbe said, for every student in Davidson
chpwéecheve to°pet’an education, else, why would they be
hetdp Pt fultine teViews df undesirable times ts a necessary
ae, br if ett an education, then the student body
uh ensure, i} Bpeomplaipingly, but again, 95 per cent of
the, RULFansAsMA ote take the interests and desires of the
students’a little more to heart.
ot Bhipupitehtidiethas existed for years and was again

atevidl li By tonrse would be of Saturday afterno
sogantl wo tae. eo. 8 ° °

ne Antercstmg. part of it is that this professor is a

ithe, committee to study ways of improving re-

laji~usibatween:faenlty members and students.

& ,Widsilave bteppedi on some rather prominent faculty
toue'on eb MAltdficT'We regret that it was necessary to
aypey BYT iow aul stem that some study and subsequent
atp2. nig he; tq gn in this matter. The student body
i, Ifo nerogenkiagyeement in what we have said, and
itis manhopatthat the remaining 95 per cent of the faculty
wilhaigres)« goinictisims

THE DAVIDSONIAN

.

Sop Bev v7

IN SEARCH OF ‘‘DANGEROUS THOUGHTS’’
NOTE: The F.B.I. announces that it has begun “loyalty” tests of
2,000,000 government workers. Senator Tenny, a member of the Commit-
tee for Investigation of Un-American Activities, urges that the U. S,
also introduce the system of “thought control.” (Ed. Note: Permission
‘for reproduction of this Russian propaganda cartoon from “Out of the
Crocodile’s Mouth,” by Wm. Nelson, has been granted to the David-
sonian by the Public Affairs Press, 2153 Florida Ave., Washington, D.C.)

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) The U. N. General Assembly has approved a federal union of Ethiopia
and the former Italian colony of Eritrea.

2) The Kiplinger Washington Letter for December 2 concurred with
other spectators who say that Russia would overrun Europe in the event
of a big war with China,

3) Chancellor Adenauer asked that, more equality be the price of the
part West Germany plays in western European defense.

4) President Truman's statement that an A-bomb will be used if neces-
sary in Korea met with special opposition among French officials, as well
as most U. N. delegates.

5) The newly independent nation of Libya has crowned its tirst king,

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1950

GEECH’S GOULASH

By PAT McGEACHY

It is within the realm of remote possibility
that the locaie to he deseribed in this week's
tablean is bevond the’ cireumlocutory route of
the average student. For this reason. we thought
that it might be of interest to seme to intro-
duce them to a part of the campus they may
never have visited. We refer to the central heat-
ing plant, that dusty nucleus, engulfing its daily
inonthfuls of bituminious coal, and expelling
steamy energy into the wintry campus. We had
never becn there, and so we ‘went, there.

We carefully seueezed between the laundry
GE vou will excust the language), and the fur-
nice hu'‘lding. tripped gingerly down a narrow
flight of cement stairs, turned into a foreboding
entrance. The initial picture was one of sur-
prise. We had imagined huge fiery maws,
belching forth golden heat on the backs of
sweating blacks, us they mechanically fed—
well, you know what we mean. There are three
cold furnaces at the moment; they have been
in that state since this summer. It seems that the
addition of the new gym had estailed an en-
largement of the original heating system. So
the clever engineers have managed to squeeze,
between the old furnaces and the wall, one
shiny new furnace and boiler which does more
work than the original three. We were fas-

cinated. Entranced we opened a door in the

side of a white brick wall.

‘Don’t go in there!’’ suggested a friend-
ly voice. So we closed the door, which proved
to be the entrance to the fire box. (Pause for
sighs. of relief by friends, neither of whom at-
tend Davidson.) ‘‘You might have been killed.
Although looking at you I regret my hasty

words. What can I do for you?”’

‘¢We’re looking for material for ovr column,
The Inspiring Reporter,’’ said we. ‘‘know any
facts?’’

‘“‘Strange to say, yes,’’ the voice: replied,
aud we diseovered it belonged to the genial
proprietor of a coal shovel. ‘1 fill this stoker
ever so often. The stoker fills the furnace. The
furnace heats the ‘water. The water turns to
steam. The steam heats the buildings. On hitter
days we burn three quarters of a ton of coal an
hour. At eleven P.M. we shut down. We leave
the fire banked at night. Twice a day we blow
the soot off the pipes to keep them from corroit-
ing Have a look at the furnace again now that
1 see who it is.”’

‘*No thanks,’’ we thanked him.

“You're welecome,’’ he ‘welcomed us.
‘¢ Ag long as you're here, T may as well explain
where all these pipes lead to, excuse the prepo-
sition. In a way I’m glad you dropped in. Lots
of fellows go through four years here and
never know where the heat is coming from.
That is the steam heat.”’

We spent an enjoyable fifteen minutes dis-
cussing the relative efficiencies of different
heating systems. At least we remember his
mentioning something about hot air, avhich the
heating plant doesn’t use. At the end of the
interview, we left with a cordial handshake.

‘‘There is philosophy in every walk of life,’
we observed. ‘‘Thanks for this enjoyable visit,
and thanks for saving us from the furnace.”’

**Don’t mention it,’? he advised, anid then
mumbled, ‘‘some one might find out.”’

Have you paid your visit to the furnace?

adized Cil¥'1abt week when a professor announced si

Emil (four other names) Senussi.

The Metamorphosis of Howe Green

By ARCHIBALD HAMENHASH

Three months ago, when Da-.
vidson College opened its doors, I
selected a typical incoming fresh.
man in order to show to the world
the way in which Harry High-
School becomes Joe College, the
gradual metamorphosis which oc-
curs as he. comes under the in-
fluence of a new, more mature
way of life. :

Recall with me the scores of
foibles he blundered into his first
few months, such as getting lost
on the cake race and walking al-
most to Concord in a blinding rain.

storm before he found out his mis--

take, and proving himself utterly
incapable of getting an upperclass-
man's laundry correctly. Remember
also his frightening experience on
his first date at Queens, and his
crude lack of judgment which re.
sulted
sick at the Southern States Fair,

But perhaps the most obvious
sign of adolescence occurred at
Homecoming Dance in Johnston
Gymnasium when his girl was sto-
len from him by Snake Smith be-

.fore’he ever knew what hit him.

Rut remember also that “Ex.
perience is the best teacher.” In
these three months, Howe Green
has become a man. He has been
observant and acquired some. of
the finesse of his upperclassmen
friends. The alchemy of college has
changed the brass to gold. —

This complete change of the
freshman class will be proven con-
clusively Tuesday afternoon at the
Freshman-Sophomore Day. This
event, as you know, comes near the
end of the first ‘semester, and pits
the freshman class against the

e

PROM...

in his becoming violently .

sophomure class. It has been the
tradition of the College that the
freshmen shall try, through a se-
ries of contests to establish them.
selves as worthy members of the
Davidsdn Student Body. If they
are able to beat the sophomores, in
these tests, they will have proved
themselves worthy to remove their
caps and be considered men. -
MY PREDICTION OF THE

OUTCOME of the Freshman-
Sophomore Day is a_ Freshman
victory. .

There will be’ three hard fought
events: a tug-of-war, a shuttle re-
fay, and a foothall game,

T PREDICT—the tug-of-war will
go to the freshmen. This event will
be judged by Hoopy Davis and
Doug Rice. The freshmen will be
able to muster more strength for
this cvent.

T PREDICT—the football game
will go to the sophomores because
of their Fleet halfbacks and de-
ceptive passers. The referees for
this game will be Tom Fetzer,
Johnny Guiton, J. B. Stroud, and
Tom Alten.

I PREDICT—that the entire de-
cision will hinge. upon the relay,
which the freshmen will win in a
thrilling climax. The outcome of
the day will be in doubt until the
final moment, but all doubts as
to the maturity of the Freshman
Class will be ended when they cross
the finish line first in a tough test
of stamina.

TI PREDICT — The Freshman
Class will prove themselves the
equals of the sophomores and will
go home Christmas without their
caps.

The Editor’s Mailbox

Editor, the Davidsonian:

The Negro problem in David.
son is acute, and we are all glad
to find the “Y” inaugurating the
program for better housing for
these unfortunate individuals. But
is this enough? How can one ex-
pect the Negroes to have fine homes
when for a week's wages they are
paid only $24.00 and from the sup-
posedly most Christian element in
the community! Only $24.00 a week,
arely $1500 a year to support a
amily! And we speak of helping
them out! It seems ironical to me
that such a campaign is being
carried out.

How much money is needlessly
spent on athletic scholarships to
men who could afford to come here
on their own initiative? The em-
phasis is maybe put on the wrong
program,

Christmas isa fine time to think
of the needs of others, but Christ-
mas should not be the only time.

The campaign for the betterment
of society should be a 52 week a
year job.

I think action should come from
authorities who could raise the
incomes of some of the necessary
and valuable help—we build a multi-
thousand dollar church to pray for
better conditions in and at the
same time we let poverty dwell
“across the tracks.”

How can a person make a pay-
ment of at least $7.50, which is the
least required payment under the
“Y's” new housing project, on a
new house when he barely makes
enough to feed his family? The so-
lution to the problem is clear

enough to me—raise thé income ,

of the hired Negro help to reason-
able amounts.

Thanking you very much, and
hoping action will be taken soon, I
remain,

Yours truly,
STEVE STEWART

ays geom College Kgs

Lawyer: It would be better if
you had a good alibi. Did any-
one see you at the time of the
crime?

_ Client: Fortunately, no.

—Yale Record

Remember, your girt still enjoys
candy and flowers. Let her know
that you remember—speak of them
occasionally.

—Yale Record

Little Betty: “Mamma, do all

fairy tales begin with ‘once upon

a time?”

Mother: “No, dear, sometimes
they begin with ‘Honey, I was de-
tained at the office’!

An American sator bribed his
way into a Turkish harem, and
was amazed to see a fat, bored
eunich playing a hose on a line-up
of hewitching ladies.

“A religious rite?”
sailor.

“Not at all,” said the eunich.
“Orders. When one of them siz-
zies, I send her in to the sultan.”

asked — the

The office beauty was regaling
her bored companions with the
tale of her adventure on the pre-

vious night. “This feller,” she said.
“took me up to his apartment and
showed me a closet that contained
at least fifteen absolutely perfect
mink coats. And what do you
know,” she said, “he gave me one
of them,” .

“What did you have to do?”
asked the skeptic in the audience.

“Just shorten the sleeves,” she
said,

A man trying to stop a fellow
from jumping out of the ninth
floor window of his office:

“Think of your wife!”

“Ain't got no wife.”

“Think of your mother!”

“Aint got no mother.”

“Think of your children!”

“Ain't got no children.”

“Well, think of Robert E. Leet”

“Who is Robert E. T.ee?”

“Aw! Go ahead and jump, you
dam-yankee!”

Overheard at Newberry game:
One girl said to another, after
Coach McMillan replaced the de.
fensive team. “I’m glad he took
out that team. They haven’t scored
a point all night.”

Another: “Mrs. Smith, how did
you enjoy your first football game?”

“Oh, just fine, at first. The teams
lined up so pretty, then some smart.
aleck came up and kicked the ball
and they started to fight.”

—The Erskine Mirror

He: “Before we get married, I
have a confession to make. I have
a wooden leg.”

She: “Oh! That’s all right, I
have a cedar chest.”

Mother: Where have you been
until 3 o'clock in the morning?
Mary: Walking, Mother.
Mother: For goodness sake!
Mary: Yes, mother, for goodness
sake, —The Lenoir Rhynean.

He: If I had a miflion dollars,
do you know where I'd be?

She: You'd be on our honey-
moon.—Chase.

Junior: Mother, what does de-
hydrate mean?

Mother: To take the water out
of something.

Junior: Well, my dog just de-
hydrated on the living room rug.

Wax Scratchings

After ah absence of one (maybe
two) weeks, Wax Scratching is
back again.

Having been asked why T have
been skimping al! the swell Doris
Day recordings that have been re-
leased lately, I shall endeavor to
make up for this foul deed by de-
voting an extra long paragraph to
same. One of her latest is “I’ve
Forgotten You,” and | might add
that it's one of her best. It’s soft
and smooth and has that wonderful
ear appeal that has made her so
very popular with record fans every-
where. Another of her newer plat-
ters is labeled “t Am Loved” and
although I don't like it quite as
much as the first side mentioned,
you may. So give it a listen and
see, Doris also has recorded a
catchy little bounce tune called
“It’s A Lovely Day Today” which
you're almost bound to like. She
gives it the light treatment that it
has lacked in the arrangements of
other artists cutting it. The flip
sides of all these records are’ sup-
posed to be plenty good too, but
to be truthful about the matter I
haven't been able to listen to all of
them yet.

There may have been some men-
tion of Mitch Miller’s Orchestra
in this column, but very little.
From the looks of things, you'll be

By BOB WHEELES

hearing quite a lot from him from
now-on. If you've heard his new
release called “My Heart Cries For
You,” you will know what I mean.
Guy Mitchell handles the vocal
solo work, and believe me the guy
is great. As a matter of fact that
adjective seems to describe the
whole record better than any other.
The orchestration is great (sounds
a little like Hugo Winterhalter),
the choral work is great, and so is
the solo work. I¢ is undoubtably one
of the best etchings of the sea-
son,

To speed up the tempo a bit,
Louis Jordan and His Tympany
Five have a new slice of shellac on
the market, This ore is labeled
“Lemonade” and it isn’t a bad
tune at all. My only objection is that
it features an organ in addition to
his regular rythm section. In the
lyrics, Louis bemoans the fact that
he can’t find a gal that drinks no.
thing but lemonade. The flip side,
“You Dyed Your Hair Chartreuse”
has some of that good ole Jordan
vocal and alto sax, bist still is far
from his best.

Anita O’Day has just made a
rather cute discing labeled “Yea
Boo.” Don't get me wrong, it isn’t
anything to get excited about, but
it's different and not bad for,a
change. Just in case someone is

interested its a London Record.

Perry Como has done it again.
His recording of “You're Just In
Love” is one of his best to date.
He is assisted in the vocal depart-
ment by The Fontaine Sisters
whom you may have seen on his
TV show. This one is destined to
go places, so if you haven't heard
it yet be sure to give it a listen,

“Time Out For Tears” is Nat
King Cole's latest contribution to
the platter field. This is one of the
few numbers Nat has ever made
using an orchestra-choral back.
ground, and has been around for
several years and turned it into one
of the most impressive ballads of
the day. The flip side “Get to
Gettin’ ” is a medium-fast riff num-
ber. It’s fair, but nothing extra.

Both Louie Prima and Kaye Starr
have swell arrangements of “Oh
Babe” one of the top bounce tunes
in the nation. It’s seldom that one
arrangement of a number isn’t
head and shoulders above all others,
but Louie and Kaye give such
fine renditions ot the tune that
Til say they're both < slightly ter-
rific and let it go at that. If you're
looking for a recording of same
in a dance tempo you might like
Ralph Flanigan's “Oh Babe.” It’s
not up with the other two men.
tioned, but not bad.
