PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN \

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF .....-------.-
BUSINESS MANAGER ...-.

EDITORIAL STAFF

Chief Associate Editor —..
Chief Associate Editor
Chief: Associate Editor ........--..

-.. Lonnie Tu
ecccennenceneecee Jack

MANAGING EDITORS~ Arnie Covell, Bill Cumming, Hartley Hall,

uttay, Bill Hollister, Randy Taylor.

Neill Leach, Tom Mann, Jim M Make-up Editors —- Dan McKei-

Sports Edito Bill Kien Scott then, Cherry Stribling
Edit i in en, cy .
City Editor—John Hobart Exchange Editor—Watt Jeffries
M: BUSINESS ST Bill Cassells
Assistant Business ‘Manager ------------------———------ ;
Advertising Managers st pecnccenne eee e enn Wylie Smith, Rod Shaw
Assistant Advertising Managers—W. S. McSwain, Cam Faison.
Circulation Manager.-......--.---.--.--.-----~-------------. Huffaker
Asst, Circulation Managers —..--.-._. Ansley Moses, Neil Underdown
Collections Manager - weennn nana: John Loftin
Subscriptions Manager .....- manecnccecneeeee Alex Goley

Entered as second-class matter at th ePost Office at Davidson, North
Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

In last week's issue on this page sepearea a portion of the
piercing article, ‘Colleges in a Moral Fog,’’ which appeared in
the February 1 issue of Obristian Century magazine. The article
was concerned with the plight of the American colleges in inter-
collegiate football, particularly with references to the recent
meeting of the somewhat hypocritical: members of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association. An appeal was made for the
ehurch colleges to. come to the ‘‘moral reseue’’ of some of the
weak-in-the-spine colleges and spearhead an offensive to elimi-
nate the professionalism and ‘‘double-dealing’’ in intercollegiate
football today., This forthright challenge to ehureh colleges
merits no small amount of critical attention from Davidson Col-
lege, which either has or is in the process of reshaping its foot-
ball policy. Davidson, no Jess than the othet church-related col-
leges, must not shirk its ethical responsibilities. These are, pre-
cisely, to analyze the general situation, to determine Davidson’s
relative position in the over-all picture, to formulate an ethical-
ly substantiated policy from the foregoing factors, and to make
an. intensified solicitation for support of this policy from other
colleges in the same relative position as Davidson, thus pro-
viding some of the leadership which is so desperately needed to
guide the American colleges out of this ‘‘moral fog.’’

Everybody is familiar with the situation: college football
as an amateur, school-spirited-athletic event is on the decline,
whereas college football as a highly professionalized, money-
making-inspired proposition is on the incline. The larger colleges
ave responsible for this latter trend and are raking in the money ;
but the smaller collegs, many of whom cempete with some of
these larger colleges, are finding it almost impossible to pro-
fessionalize football, remain in competition with the larger col-
leges, and keep the football program out of the red, all at the
same time. This, in and of itself, poses no minor problem for the

smaller colleges. When added to the ethical and educational is-
snes involved, it becomes of crucial significance. It is not, how-
ever, an insoluble problem.

In order to arriye at a possible solution to the problem,
the following proposals are suggested.

(1) “Feel out” the eight smaller colleges in the Southern Confer-
ence with reference to the formation of a Southern “Ivy League”,
which would not condone or practice subsidization or professionali-
zation of any form in athletic programs. These colleges would not be
any worse off than they are, because they are already suffering from
loss of prestige in trying to compete in football with the larger col-
leges. If they assented to the formation of such a conference, they
would lose all their Southern Conference privileges, at which point
again must be injected the question of the relative significance be-
tween following ethical dictates and following alumni-pressurized
dictates. These smaller colleges would actually have more to gain
from the formation of such a conference.

(2) Along with the formation of another conference, an agree-
ment should be sought with the remaining members of the South.
ern Conference to permit inter-conference competition in sports oth-
er than football where professionalizing does not have such notice-
able effects, so as to allow the continuance of traditional rivalries
between some of the smaller colleges and larger colleges. This
would enable some of the smaller Virginia colleges to maintain their
keen rivalries with the University of Virginia. They could still com-
pete with Virginia in basketball, tennis, track, etc., with a fair chance
of winning, and with no jeopardizing of conference standing. This
should hold true for any large Southern Conference college with
whom they might want to compete, discounting football. Davidson
could still compete with U.N.C., N.C. State, Duke, and others, in
basketball, tennis, track, etc., with no jeopardizing of conference
standing. ‘There should be no reason why these smaller colleges
could not have a “pure” conference of their own, and at the same
time, compete with any outside colleges.

(3) If the above proposals could be effected, these smaller col-
leges in the new conference should then make an all-out effort to ob.
tain the support of the other small colleges in the same predicament
throughout the nation. Church colleges alone would be sufficient in
number and prestige when organized collectively to make “pro-
posals with which the entire collegiate world would ‘be forced to
reckon.” There are doubtless many colleges wanting to get away
from professional, high-pressured football. St. Mary's College, which
played Oklahoma in one of the recent Sugar Bowl games, has already
unclothed itself of this “bought” prestige. To bring about the same
action among the others, only inducement and sound leadership
needed. Why can't schools ¢ such as Davidson provide this leadership?

(4) If the first two proposals fail, there remain two alternatives:
one, to maintain the embarrassing position of status quo in the Sou-
thern Conference, which we, obviously do not want to do; two, to
Jaunch a full-speed-ahead policy toward professional athletics in
order to maintain “prestige” (even so, a losing cause for small
colleges in the Southern Conference who must compete in football
with the larger and richer schools; and three, to withdraw from i in.
tercollegiate athletics in order to preserve that bit of academic in-
tegrity which should characterize the small, liberal arts, church-
related college, to say nothing of the ethical issues involved in violat-
ing the N.C. A. A. ruling in the “sanity code.”

What, then, should the small, liberal arts, church-related col-
lege do in alleviating this cancerous situation? How much em-
phasis should it place on football in-relation to educational re-
sponsibilities? Must it ‘‘follow the crowd’? merely to maintain
a winning football team for fear of loss of athletie prestige? If
*‘the crowd”’ is going in the wrong direction, should such a col-
lege withdraw from ‘‘the crowd,’’ take a definite stand, and
induce some other members of ‘the erowd’’ to follow suit! If
maintaining competition in higher athletic circles involves ath-
letic overemphasis, hypocritical practices, and unethieal prac-
tices, should this type college remain passive to such things? Is
courage lacking ‘‘to stand up to the victory demands of alum-
ni’’? Is the chureh-related college, to whom the collegiate world
looks for a solution to ethical problems, going to ignore complete-
ly the ethical issues involved in this matter? (If the church col-
lege is to ignore them, then who is to heed them?) What, then, is
the intellectually honest position of 4 college such as “Davidson,
in view of all the factors involved?

These are only a few of the questions which must be answered
by the small colleges in the near future if any degree of educa-
tional and ethical integrity is to be maintained in the attempt to
lift this ‘‘moral fog’’ which enshrouds the American colleges
today.

Unless somebody is willing to take a stand, even, if need be,
against the tide, the fog will not be lifted. In view of the fact that
information on the subject is ‘‘ungvailable’’ (security measures
at Davidson seem to be air-tight), it would seem that Davidson
at the present has no policy. What is the stand of Davidson, a

small, liberal arts, chureh-related college, going to be on this
issue ?-—J.T.M.

B HOLLISTER
————~ BO BILL HOUCK

-..- Doug Hix

L
\

Snapshots of Half Century at Davidson

been scattered over the campus

watching the  spectacolar fire,
gathered about Dr. Martin.
“My friends,” he said, “this is

a serious blow. Chambers lies in
ashes. We must staunchly face con-
ditions. Tam not cast down or dis-
couraged.

“Tl hear a rumor that the College
will be disbanded and that some
are preparing to leave for their
homes. Nothing is farther from the
truth. The College will not dis-
band, and College cxercises will
continue without. interruption.

“ET now call the faculty to meet
in my office at ten o'clock this
morning to arrange schedules and
recitation rooms and to provide
quarters for every student,

“I confidently rely on every
member of the faculty and student
body to rally to the College in this
day of her distress and support me
in every effort to advance her in-
terests. | am confidently counting
on every one of you.

“Chambers is no more. But I here
and now pledge that, with God's
help, before I quit, a finer and
more serviceable building shall
take its place.

“The sun is just rising. A new
day is begun. Let us. face a new
and better day for Davidson.”

The burning of Chambers Build-
ing was the most dramatic incident
in the history of Davidson College.
The date, November 21, 1921, al-
most the mid-point of the ‘past
half-century, may serve as a guide-
post for some heterogeneous and
fragmentary but more or less}.
chronological recollections.

In 1900 all classrooms, labora-
tories, dormitory rooms concen-
trated in Chambers Building . . .

Rooms lighted by oil lamps . .
Open fires ... Coal bins in the rear
of Chambers... . Uncle Hiram,
Holtzclaw, Enoch, who made fires
and cleaned up rooms... Library,

also in Chambers Building, beauti-] R.

ful but unlighted and unheated;
open two hours in the afternoon
. Shower baths in YMCA Build-

.| Sheep...

By PROFESSOR E. J. ERWIN

A bugle sounded the assembly} ing, which was also the gymnasium |...
call. The excited crowd, which had].

. Chapel at 7:40 a, m. Lake
Wiley off and on. Dr Shearer
still giving lectures in defense of
slavery ... . Medical College . . .
Philanthropic and Eumanean
societies the most important organi-
zations on: the campus , . . Chief
social events during the year:
Junior and Senior speakings, with
a combination of oratory, girls, and
receptions .... No dancing ... No
card playing . . . No leaving the
campus at any time without per-
mission ... . Commencements gala
occasions; brass bands; big
crowds; horse and buggy rented;
dates made for after-breakfast, be-
fore-supper, and after-supper drives;
most popular boy drove a spanking
two-horse team; most popular girl

received the Chief Marshal's rega-|.

lia, which was presented by a friend
with much form and ceremony .
Athletic Field South of Chambers
Building . Field Day contisisting
of inter-class track events on the
“Dp” . . . Tennis courts back of
Chambers Building . Fraternity
halls also in Chambers Building,
beautifully decorated.

Steady growth of Student Body
and Faculty ... Martin Chemical
Laboratory, 1901... Shearer Hall,
architectural monstrosity, but very
useful, carved from the old classic
Chapel, 1902... . Freshman Re-
‘belli6n, 1903. First electric] ;
lights in new palatial Rumple Dor-
mitory, 1904 . Sprunt Field -
Watts Dormitory, 1906... Bobby
Vail, who pitched in the New Eng-
land League during the summer
and at Davidson during the spring

Library built from funds pre-
sented by Andrew Carnegie, 1909
Georgia Dormitory, 1909 ,

D Club... Basketball. . . Golf
course mowed by Dr Arbuckle’s
The Davidsonian .. .
Alumni Gymnasium . O. David-
son... O.D.K... Visit of Wood-
row Wilson. 1916 . . . Influenza
Epidemic, 1918. .: S.A.T.C....
.O.T.C,

Barracks built to house students
after the burning of Chambers—
East and West Dormitories, 1922

Campaign to raise funds for re-
building’ Chambers . . : Paved
Streets instead of the mudholes of
the town of Davidson; paved high-
ways conducive to hitch hiking...
Phi Beta Kappa . . . Quadwrang-
lers’ Club... Dramatics ... Mov-
ing pictures in the gymnasium . .

Miss Shaw’s History ... The Maga-
zine; The Chameleon; The Yowl:.
Scripts and Pranks . . . Duke En-
dowment ... Kelly report... In-
crease and reorganization of. the
Faculty .. . Electrification of the
Faculty seats during Chapel in
Shearer Hall . The Suicide Club
wae Football ‘team of 1926...
Church service interrupted by the
burning of Watts Dormitory .
Metrophilian and Pandeinic Socie-
ties short-lived . . . Watts rebuilt
. New Chambers finally com-

pleted.

F.B.I. on the campus .. . Prater-
nity Court . . Moving Picture
‘alace built in Davidson ... Stu-

dent speaker rebuked in Chapel . .
Elaborate Centennial Pageant in
1937 rained out (my most poignant
memory) .. Financial campaign .
Infirmary ... Duke Dormitory .
New Science "Building .. New Li-
orary ... Moving books from the
old Library to the new... Another
financial campaign to raise moticy
tor new Gymnasium and Church

Old Vabrary transformed into
a Guest House ... Music . . Jaw-
breaking names of Air Corps Ca-
dets beginning with “°K” or “LL”. .
A.S.T.A.P, .... Returning veterans,
many with charming wives . .
Cardboard Village . .. Dancing on
the Campus .:.. Memories of David-
son College ... “Cloud over Ca-
tawba’”’ Still another financial
campaign ‘of great magnitude near-
ing successful completion +... New
Gymnasium .. . Ground broken for
new Church .. . Margaret Tru-
man.

The ghost of Old Chambers,
which appears during dry weather
each summer, reminds us that Dr.
Martin's pledge has been fulfilled

and urges us to make the new Da-
vidson a better Davidson.

Is America Adrift on the Sea of Finance

By PROFESSOR C. K. BROWN

(FIRSK OF TWO ARTICLES)
(By Permission of “The Charlotte
News”)

It is well known that the ex-
penditures of the federal govern-
ment have increased ten-fold in
the past twenty years, that in all
but two of the fiscal years since
1930 the treasury has operated at
a deficit which to! date has aggre-
gated some 240 billion dollars, and
that the volume of bank deposits
and currency has approximately
tripled during this period. Some
portion of this record was due to
deliberate design during the 1930's,
some was more or less forced up-
on us by the financial demands of
the war and the wretched state of
world affairs that has followed it.

So far as fiscal policy is concern-
ed, we have been drifting since
1945, with no very clear agreement
as to the road that we should fol-
low. It is difficult for us to reach
any understanding because of the
great confusion that prevails in a
large part of the discussion of this
topic. The advocates of what used
to be commonly regarded as
“sound” fiscal policy are pretty
generally united in favoring bot
smaller federal expenditures and a
surplus in the budget that would al-
low at least some modest reduc-
tion of the public debt. They would
not, however, pursue this program
in such a way as to bring about an
considerable reduction in the vol-
ume of money for fear that such
reduction would fead to a business
depression. Instead they would re-
gard the inflated state of the money
supply as a situation already arriv-
ed at and one that ought not to be

altered radically, but one that should
be taken care of gradually by allow-
ing the volume of production and
trade to “grow up"to the volume
of money.

The advocates of looser or more
generous fiscal policy frequently do
not make it clear whether they fa-
vor simply a high level of federal
expenditure, or a budgetary deficit
along with a high level of expendi-,
ture, or a budgetary deficit so fi-
nanced as to lead to further increase
in the volume of money.

Those who desire a high levet of
expenditure, but are willing for it to
be financed by taxation believe that
the federal government can do a
great many things, such as equaliz-
ing educational opportunities, and
providing adequate housing, that
ought to be done and that could
not be done as well, if at all, by.
smaller units of governments or
by private pasties spending their
own income; or else they believe
that they are in position to reap
benefits from federal expenditure
that will exceed their contribution
to federal taxes.

So far as those who hold the lat-
ter view are concerned, the ques-
tion may be raised as to how long
a happy and satisfying national life
can be sustained if we insist upon
running the country on the prin-
ciple of getting ours while the get-
ting is good. If there is anything at
all to the idea that the character of
the people is the only. basis for a
satisfying commonwealth, we ought
to take care how far we ‘undermine
that character. Moreover, people
who are unwilling to submit their
fortunes to the decision of a free

market but ‘prefer instead to use
their political power to secure larg-
esse ought to know that they are
playing with a two-edged sword.
Political revolutions, mid or other-
wise, are not beyond the range
of possibility, and the less self-
discipline a particular bloc or group
has. displayed, the less mercy can it
expect if perchance it loses its po-
litical power.

If we raise the questton of wheth-
er all the things that it is proposed
for the federal government to deo
ought to be done by anybody, the
onty answer that can be made to
the other sub-group of high spend-
ers is that the present swollen ac-
tivities of the federal government
can be sustained or extended only
at a cost in terms of the loss of in-
‘dividual freedom and the reduction
of the opportunity to deal with
problems on a local level that is
too high to pay for the benefits in-
volved. Here we come to the very
fundamental question as to how far
we want to run our own lives in-
stead of having things done for us.
It may have been a mistake, but
this country was started with the
idea that we would handle our own
affairs and spend our own incomes.
We thought this would be more ef-
ficient in the’ economic sense, but
whether .it was more efficient or
not, we were for it. Observations
of the waste and confusion that ex-
ist ‘in the big governmental estab-
lishments that. undertake to spend
a large proportion of the people's
income lends support to the view
that we were right about the mat-
ter of efficiency. Even so, it is not

at all clear that the Ameriean peo-

| He Is My Brother...

By SCOTT VERNER

A colored person walked through
the doors of the Methodist Church
in Chapel Hill, N. G, on February
4, 1950. Py his side in mutual love
and unbifsed faith walked a white
vanth, Clase hehind then followed
Negro girls, white girls, a trio of
colored boys and two white bovs,
a Negro preacher, Presbyterians,
Methodists, Quakers, — Baptists
Episcopals, members of 30 denomi-
nations, represeniati'e  cdelesrates
from 35 colleges gathered into a
homogeneous group, .gathered to
talk togeiher, work together, eat
‘opether, listen together, learn to-
gether.

Their spirit was one which they
hadn't quite understood, but. the
spark of its truth glowed in their
hearte They had heard the word
“ecumenical” used to describe the
nature of the student conference
they were to attend. They read,
perplexed, what the dictionary said
of the term: “General, world-wide
in extent, influence, ete.” But some-
how their inner beings told them
that a deeper meaning was to be
realized—yes, a universal attitude
but also a nearness, an understand-
ing love and consecration.

The group moved into the chapel
and sat in staggered design: a
white boy planning to he a phy-
sician smiled at his colored neigh-
bor. They sang together = their
hymns, bowed their heads in a
humble prayer they distened as they
heard the voice of Him who nearly
two thonsand years ago taught man-
kind the lesson which was never
learned but never quite forgot: that
there may be a realm where the
least shall be heard and considered
side by side with the greatest; that
we are members of one body, the
Churth. Leonard Morgan spoke to
the group as chairman of the Con-
ference Planning Committec, and
they heard him say that ecumenicity
is merely Christian Fellowship, It
does not try to unite all the de-,
nominations; it is not a panacea for
the ills of the church—but a spirit.

The students were amazed. Here
was a dream come true—they were
gathered without prejudice, with-
out hatred, without malice, without
segregation, without bickerings of
individual pride, Tuned to the kilo-
cycle of ecumenicity, they heard
Francis ‘Pickens’ Miller speak as
chairman of the World Student
Christian Federation on a subject
which fed their searching minds.
What is the task of the church in
the world .today? To supply the
need of the world? What is the
need of the world?

The world needs a united Chris-
tian movement—a community: giv-
ing its witness to the world. From

‘| God's standpoint there is only one

church wherever there are Chris-
tions, a church composed of all
the people. What the world is wait-
ing on is for this “Church of God”
to- become articulate. Thereby, the
body of Christ will have a chance
to express itself in this world. What
the Church needs is not a program,
but instead it needs a belief—a
faith, The reason a movement fails
is becanse its advocates do not be-
lieve in its content. If we don't
believe we don't act. If faith does
not lead to action, it is hypocricy.

What do we believe? The world

our daily life. Our actions are
by many varied points

waits to hear what the Christian
community has to say. We helieve
in God. But do we? Every human
being has an existence beyond that
as a citizen—beyond race, religious
group, citizenship. That existence
determines what we are. We are
responsible, then, for molding our
faith by this inner contact with
God. Expressing this faith in a
public policy is a need of the world.
A doctrine of man has been a basic
element in other systems, but the
space reserved for such in ours is
void. The tree of liberty so essen-
tial to our system grew out of soil
of Christian, culture enriched
by a faith in God. Erosion has tak-
en place, and we must save our
plant through our own enrichment.
What do we believe? Are we will-
ing to act on it? Are we willing
to dedicate our lives to that end?

Ready to live the religion they
love, the students separafed into
vocational groups to have lunch,
mingling with their bodily assimila-
tion health-giving mental food from
boys and girls of different back-
grounds. Aiterwards, discussion
emphasized the concept that a vo-
cation should be chosen by “sealed
orders” manifesto, supplemented by
a prayer for God's guidance.

Gathered again into the homo-
Reneous body, the students heard
John Deschner speak, represent-
ing the United Student Christian
Council. In his opening words he
struck the keynote of oneness, the
unity of ecumenicity. He drew a
word-picture of the ecumenical pér-
spective, a series of relationships
which gives meaning to what we
see, Yet the whole depends upon
a ccrtain point from which each
line radiates. A picture in which
there are many points of per-
spective would be one of disorder,
and such is the sad case of much

which compose our confused per-
spectives. We must place Christ as
cur central point for “from Him
all things consist.” The unity of —
ecumenicity does not mean that:
we should have one church it means
that we are one.

And what is the responsibility of
the Christian student? We must
face our deepest, thoughts and
donbts and fears about religion,
face all that we lack and all that
we have in the light of Jesus Christ
and let Him determine their out-
come. We must allow Christ in
our way and accept the role as-
signed us in the drama of His King-
dom, Secondly, we must look for
the Kingdom and live for its glory.

Again the students left the chape!
full of knowledge of: purpose anid
need. After denominational meet-
ings and supper, the boys and girls
left their newly-found friends of
different race and creed. Handclaps
of sincerety, goodbyes of Christian
love and hope, a Baptist minister,
a white boy, two colored girls left
toucther in a spirit of unity which
they had derived from the events
of the day, the soul- “stirring words
of a colored student Preparing for
the ministry echoing i in their hearts
as he said, “If we're going to be
together in Heaven, why not get to
know each other while we're nt do we Deleve?_The world | know each other while we're here?”

U. S. Foreign Policy

By. HENRY

During the Truman administra-
tions it has often been apparent
that U. S. foreign policy has been,
even within the confines of these
administrations no policy at all
but has resulted in hasty decisions
and been influenced. by rash and
immoderate statements from peo-
ple who have had no business to
say anything at all. Immediately
there come to mind the amusing
vascillations of President Truman
over several vital issues and cer-
tain statements of various individ-
uals, notably the recent statement
of one individual concerning what
Russia might expect were she suf-
ficiently heedless to initiate an at-
tack against this country.

The alleged purpose of any dip-
lomatic efforts is, or certainly
should be, to help in the reduction
of international tensions which so
often lead to war. Americans in
general, if they even take notice
of foreign policy, have been amus-
ed, dubious, or perhaps annoyed
at sueh gross signs of lack of
policy. But the seriousness of the
situation has seemed to leave them
untouched. We have adopted an at-
titude of indifference for most of
us feel that, whatever the State De.
partment may do, surely other na-
tions will realize that we mean them
only well and that they need have
nO fear of us or of what we may

In addition to the attitude men-
tioned above, America is, as are
most nations, enormously ethno-
centric in its feelings. We feel that
we are always right, that our way
is the best way, and we cannot un-
derstand the resistance which oc-
casionally appears most unexpect-
edly from other nations to our big
brother attitude of taking them in
hand and showing them the way
——

ple want to run their own affairs.
The most productive people on
earth are afraid to rely upon them-
selves; the richest nation of all time
is morbidl fearful for its economic
security. If we cannot resolve to
assume the responsibilities that go
with managing our own affairs, we
shall have to face the hazards of
having them managed for us by
other persons. It is an inflexible
law that men cannot have securi-
ty against everything if we want
the government to make us secure
against every untoward econoes‘c
event, we shall have to give up se-

(Continued on Page Six)

E. HANSEN

they should gO.

nN connection with these two
points it must be pointed out that:
(1) other nations, to an astonish.
ing. extent, are not aware of what
we like to term our friendly but
often inept attentions; (2) we must
realize that our way may not seem
as desirable to other nations as it
does to us and, indeed, may not be
so at all.

It must be evident from the
points above that we must evolve a
policy, that it must be a long term
policy designed to reduce the lack
of knowledge and to enhance points
of possibic agreement between our-
selves and other nations, and that
it must, be administered in terms
of the value of absolute and not
immediate advances in friendly re-
lations between ourselves and oth-
ers. This last means that it must
be a flexible policy, accommodating
enough within its entirety and its
administration, to take cognizance
of present considerations without
destroying the overall plan.

What we need then is a Honparti-
san foreign policy, This is one of
the most important steps to be tak-
en in a program for peace. There
are many others of equal impor-
tance but this is certainly one which
we would do well to idstitute as
soon as possible.

We can rest assurea tnat the na-
tions of the world, particularly
those for whose favor Russia and
ourselves have been contending, are
subjected to an elaborate and skill-
ful bombardment of propaganda
both by us and by Russia. To
these people, frightened, suspicious,
hungry, and restless, Russia has
perhaps been more realistic and,
most important, consistent than
have we, Looking at our policy
from their point of view, we can
easily see that our erratic and con-
Stantly changing policy must, in
itself, appear suspicious, and when
this natural suspicion is reinforced
by the pointing up of Russia of
this lamentable condition together
with smooth and effective propa-
ganda to the effect that any na-
tion that changes its mind so much,
cannot be trustworthy, is it any
wonder that our efforts are greet-
ed with no response or with the
response of going over to the op-
posite camp?

White the institution of such a
nonpartisan policy will pose a na-
tional political problem of grave
dimensions, it must be attempted in
the interests of peace.
