PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1951

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF --..........-.....---.. GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER JOHN LOFTIN

Seeeeces ceseeweooonce

Associate Editors -....... Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hall
Features Editor Shelley Beard
Managing Editors ........ Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George
McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer— Raymond‘ Lynch
Proofreader—Wallace Abbott

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen
Sports Editor—Bill White

Assitant Business Manager -.-...--...--. —--.--.--.- Alex Goley
Advertising Manager -....-.-..-.......--. Manley McWilliams
Circulation Manager --.-...........-.----.-------- Ansley Mose:
Collections Manager -...-..---.---2-222--. ee Jack Turner
Subscriptions Manager .....-.----._.. ------------ ~--- Bill Hart

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Crest Finis

With this issue, we turn over the editorship of the
Davidsonian to Bill White and bow as gracefully as pos-
sible out of the picture. In looking back over the past year,
we recall many happy and satisfying experiences, both in
our efforts to give to Davidson a worthy newspaper and
in our associations with the members of the staff. If the
Davidsonian accomplished anything this year it was due
to the undivided loyalty and support of the staff at large.

Publishing a college newspaper is not—nor could it be
—a one ‘man proposition and in this final editorial, we
would like to recognize the men behind the scenes who
have contributed so much to the paper. The editorials of
Tom Mann, Hartley Hall, and Jim Murray need little rec-
ognition from this corner for their excellence has been ap-
parent to readers of this column. The Managing Editors,
Bill Adams, Shelley Beard, Pete Kalogridis, George Me-.
Murray, Nat Daniels, and: Ed Richardson—have served in
such a way that any editor would be proud to be associated
with them. Our sophomores, Frank Hanshaw, Pete Ormsby,
John Ottley, and Larry Dagenhart have proved their met-
tle and will give Editor White much cause for rejoicing
next year. It goes without saying that in Bill White, the
Davidsonian had a “big league” sports Editor who could
make the grade with any newspaper in the country, college
or otherwise.

It is trite but true that “reporters are the backbone of
any newspaper’’ and the efforts of cur reporters—the list
is too long to name them individually—have certainly
borne out this axiom. Invaluable aid and contributions
have from time to time come from various members of
the College Administration, faculty and the student body
at large; but we would like to single out ‘‘for service
above and beyond the call of duty,” Colonel Ballard of the
ROTC Department, Messers Payne and McLean in the

Alumni Office, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, Dr. Cunningham,
Professor H. T. Lilly, our faculty advisor and Raymond
Lynch, the paper’s photographer.

To Bill White we extend our heartiest congratulations
—or condolences, depending on the way you look at the
job—on his election and wish him Godspeed in his efforts
to publish a newspaper that will be a credit, not only to
himself, but to our favorite institution, Davidson College.

YMCA Scores Again

For the unusual forethought and planning which have
been displayed in this year’s Spring Services, the David-
sonian would like to give a “well done’’ to Don Shriver
and the other members of the YMCA who have been con-
tributors. We should like especially to congratulate them
for the new departure in the realm of counseling.

Having the counselors with us in the dormitories has
proved to be one of the most stimulating experiences of
the year. It enables those with questions and a desire for
discussion a chance to follow through on the inspirational
addresses of the principal speaker. Here in our dorm we
have heard the nightly bull sessions range from sex to
predestination, from current politics to the origin of the
human race. The discussions were carried to fraternity
court as the counselors moved down to eat with the various
groups.

Such intimate associations must necessarily have their
effect on the tone of campus life. Here is a leavening ele-
ment for Davidsonian routine.

One of the great dangers of the life of Davidson is
the tendency to let custom and tradition take the place of
intelligent pioneering into new fields of thought and ac-
tion. This danger is all the more insidious in the religious
practices of the college since it ix a fault which is likely to
receive small criticism. We hope that our YMCA officers
will constantly be seeking new ways to inject a freshness
and vitality into the religious life of the college as they
have done in their Spring Services —J.J.M.

4

wtasslaeleceiais{avctace euclaretocs

By HENRY HANSEN

The word “vital’’, like many another in this
day of hyperbole, is often overworked. It is
used in reference to books, people’s actions, and
occasionally a movie. The word is seldom ap-
plied to Davidson in any respect except in house
organ publications, after dinner speeches, and
by old grads who have been away long enough
to know. There would seem to be a feeling
among the student body, especially those deca-
dents who constantly yawp loudly against stu-
dent body, administration, and faculty, that the
only thing vital in the local scene is the vegeta-
tion—the rest is so much dead wood. For this
reason I would like to single out for strong
commendation those men, members of the YMCA
cabinet, who have made this year what may
honestly be called a vital contribution to the
Davidson scene and particularly the student
body. Throughout the year it has become more
and more apparent that we have, in this cabinet,
a group of men whose ideas have been wedded
to the practical know-how necessary to get them
across. A long list of well-done jobs stretches be-
hind them and this ‘week’s Spring Services has
placed the cap stone on a series of activities
which have been characteried by the intelligence
of their conception, planning, and execution.
Congratulations and thanks are due—it is re-
freshing and inspiring to know that such a group
has been active not in the good old days but here
and now. It is reassuring to realize that we can
still apply to some aspects of the Davidson con-
temporary scene the word which keynotes this
praise—vital.

eo. . e . . . . . . .

We are aware that our library is not perfect.
Many books it should have are lacking. In con-

nection with this it might be cogent to note the
presence of a box in the north alcove, first floor,
whose purpose is, oddly enough, to receive sug-
gestions for books we want. The bright and vi-
cariously acquisitive student, if active enough
in stuffing this box, may get quite a high per-
centage of books ordered on his suggestion, per-
haps even ten per cent. Why not let the library
know its woeful lack by using the box more and
complaining less.

eo oy e . . . . . . °

The recent move for Victorian Elegance
would seem to have been squashed. Though the
hallowed scroll of 1840 was my choice also, nev-
ertheless it must be observed that here, as in
other fields, we were too little with too late.
It might have caused less consternation in high
places if we had decided to be reactionary soon-
er. We might even have gotten our wish in the
matter. There are two sides to every coin—this
one is no exception; however, perhaps our tardi-
ness in this matter did play a significant part
in the retention of the odious 1930 style.

oe . . . ° . ° . . . °

The Red and Black Masquers saw red when
their last production was vetoed on moral
grounds. The arts must not be shackled to 19th
century Victorian prudery. It was rumored with
dark looks and low mutters that things were
going to be changed. We’d like to see some
change ourselves, Where are they? For that mat-
ter, where are the Masquers? Committees await
your petitions and your manifestos. Let us then
petition and make manifest. Meanwhile, the best
luck in once more doing unto death. the many
lived Caesar.

pepe elece4s: Zeleeis: ) LAST WEEK
DER ARI RR RAR RAR OR onapaRaaaramas THE WORLD

1) France signed a new trade agreement with Tito’s government where-

by Yugoslavia will get arms aid.

2) Public opinion polls in West Germany indicated an increase in feet-
"ing favoring rearmament and economic cooperation with Western Europe.

3) The worst spring floods in eighty years drove thousands from their

homes in Sweden.

4) University of Penn. archeologists in Iran have discovered a cave con.
‘taining the first known agricultural tools and earliest evidence of the

domestication of animals.

8) President Peron of Argentina has signed a bill killing La Prensa,
the largest newspaper in the Spanish speaking world and his bitterest
literary critic. A commission had found that it used the United Press as

its main source.

6) The worst crisis in five years shook Iran last week as Red efforts to
secure the leadership of the oil nationalization program resulted in riots

and other serious disturbances.

WAX SCRATCHING

By BOB WHELESS

This week Billboard Magazine
published the results of its annual
College Music Poll. To determine
what artists are tops among col-
legiate groups, two mailings to
907 college and junior colleges
throughout the country were made,
and the following are the results
that were obtained. Ralph Flanni-
gan was voted the most popular
band by a two-to-one majority over
Stan Kenton. Ray “Anthony, who
didn’t place in the last poll, was
hot on Kenton’s heels in earning the
third slot. Kentons concert jazz
idea has received its greatest ac-
ceptance at the collegiate level and
has been a long standing favorite
of the campusites. Flannigan also
ranked as top sweet band and also
came in number one as most promi-

sing band. Fourth place, Les Brown, |

held that same slot last time out.
Brown's popularity still is based
on a combination of records and
his weekly showing on the Bob
Hope radio program.

Vaughan Monroe, who in the pre-
vious poll swept dual honors as
top all-around and sweet band,
took a big slide down to fifth most
popular band and did not show at
all in the sweet band polling. It
could be significant that Monroe
has not hit the road since his TV
series began in October and that
he hasn’t had a hit discing in quite
a while. Runners up in the all-
around catagory includes Elliot
Lawrence, Tommy Dorsey, Harry
James, Tex Beneke, Sammy Kaye
and Woody Herman.

In. the Most Popular Male Sing-
er poll Billy Eckstine took the title
away from last year’s winner Bing

Crosby, who fell to third place.
Perry Como who was second place
previously retained his hold on the
number two position. Mario Lanza
made so substantial an impact via
his movie work and on the strength
of his smash waxing “Be My Love”
that he was polled into fourth-place.
Frankie Lane for some years a
key favorite on the campus, moved
into fifth place this year from his

seventh position in the previous
polling.

As the most popular female sing-
er, Doris Day, outdistanced second
place winner Sarah Vaughan by al-
most a three-to-one majority. Sar-
ah moved into second slot from
numbes six last year and in so
doing edged Jo Stafford from two
to three spot in the listings. Patti
Page, whose fabulous record streak
is still blazing, zoomed into a
fourth place tie with Kay Starr, .
The runners-up this year included
June Christy, Dinah Shore, Peggy
Lee, Margaret Whiting and Mindy
Carson, Mindy lead the field in the
most pormising female vocalist and
could easily be a contender for one
of the top spots in the popularity
field next year.

Mario Lanza’s choice as most
Promising in the pop singing de-
partment is based largely on his
movie work . . . The place winner,
Eddie Fisher, captalized on a cou-
ple of hit discings, “Thinking Of
You” and “Bring Back The Thrill.”
Likewise, third place winner Don
Cherry moved into contention over-
night as the result of his hit waxing
of “Thinking Of You.”

The George Shearing Quintet
copped a three-to-one majority to
sweep the three to one honors from
the King Cole Trio, the champs
last time out. Shearing rose to
popular eminence after enjoying
several years in a leading position
in the jazz field. His popular ac-
ceptance was assured by the warm
reception accorded his group on the
recent tour he made with Billy
Eckstine.

Top vocal group was the title
won by the Mills Brothers. The
power of the disc is reflected in
the rise from out of nowhere eight-
een months ago to second most
popular vocal group of the Ames
Brothers. The Ink Spots whose
work in the past years actually has
focused on the solo stints of Bill
Kenny, held down third place. Pre-
vious vocal group champ was the
Pied Pipers who slipped badly this
time up.

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS
Do you read the Davidsonian regularly?

Yes—96 %

No—4%

If you do read the Davidsonian or parts of it, which page do you

read most thoroughly:

Front Page
Editorial Page
Sports Page

GEECH’S GOULASH

The gilded face of Old Sol hung
tantalizingly between the zenith and,
the horizon, lending to the air of
absolute stillness that permeated the
campus. Even the usual afternoon
breeze made only a fitful appear-
ance, almost a sigh, and the ther-
mometer appeared unwilling to dis-
turb itself into a change of even a
few degrees. The only activities at
the moment were the unnoticed
ripening of a million buds, and
the careful deepening of the green
in the grass.

After a while, a dog arose, shook
himself awkwardly, and set off at a
leisurely pace toward a nearby tree.
He did not make it, but sat down in
an ecstasy of fatigue, panting fit-
fully, an expression of infinite
peace filling his large brown eyes.
In a few twinklings of the eye of
Spring, he was asleep.

A pastoral scene, no less, fraught
with boiling sap and thickening
blood. Cares of a trouble-torn world
slipped into a little-used recess of
the mind, and a compassionate
warmth enveloped all wakeful
hearts. Spring’s red-breasted har-
binger sang lazily but cheerfully

By PAT McGEACHY

from a great oak—icy, breathtaking
notes, slicing the moist air on a
horizontal cleavage plane, challeng-
ing all ears to awake and dream
and hope.

Then, like the gentle handshake
of death, a slight shadow darkened
the scene, and a faint pit-pat be-
gan to cool the tortured pavement
of the walks. Quickly the sprinkle
became a shower, and the shower
a torrent, but the rays of the sun
continued to pierce the scattered
clouds, turning each raindrop into
a tiny, sparkling diamond, to fall
shattered on the thirsty foliage. And
the green deepened measurably to
the green of a polished emerald.

As if disturbed by the cold com-
press of the rain, the thermometer
cleared its throat and dropped a de-
gree or so, making sure first that
no-one was looking. But its action
did not pass unnoticed. The very
air seemed to revive from its coma
with the loss of humidity, and the
breeze stirred itself once again. And
as quickly as it had come, the rain
stopped, leaving behind only the
cool refreshed feeling that comes
only after a spring rain.

The robin emerged from his
sheltered bower, and poured forth
afresh his song of joyous welcome,
The dog disentangled himself from
a damp bush, and shook himself,
not unhappily, growling peacefully
at a passing leaf.

Then the long grey fingers of the
evening reached out to entwine
with the deepening rose of the sun-
set, and a restful tenderness poured
itself out on the campus, many lay-
ers thick, like slow molasses. But
before the darkness came, a stu-
dent emerged from one of the dorm-
itories, a trifle unkempt from an
obvious nap. He paused on the
Steps of the building, took a dis-
satisfied drag on his cigarette, and
a disinterested breath of the even-
ing air. His countenance did not
brighten, and his shoulders re-
mained a little hunched, as if he
was fighting to stay in an uncom-
fortable position. Carefully he
flicked the cigarette in a long arc
into a wet bush, inserted his hands
in his pockets and set off down the
walk.

“Nuts,” he said to himself.

W here you meet your friends

Charlottes Finest Restaurant

a Y

SHIP AHOY

A GOOD PLACE TO MEET — A BETTER
PLACE TO EAT

PICCADILLY GRILL

1416 Hast Moorehead Street

Phones 6.2000 — 5-088 Charlotte, N. 0.

