PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ................. --.. ALEX GOLEY
BUSINESS MANAGER |) SS

___---eu-2--e- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray

Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley,

Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor-—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Boo Northcutt
Jack Hobson
Bob Poston
Bill Minter

a

Associate Editors

Managing Editors ----------
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager ~--------------- >
Subscriptions Manager

een eee at

Oi
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Library, Like The Classroom,
Defeats Purpose With Hot Air

As a retreat for those who wish to read and study, Grev
Memorial Library is ‘a pretty good flop.

Unlike most flop shops, this one exists due to—rather than
inspite of—the fact that the ““heat’s on.” Some students actually
claim they can pick up more sack time in the Reference Room
than in their own beds.

Our library, in short. is kept too warm for comfort. The
heat at times is stifling to the mind, and its drying air is scarcely
conducive to good health. Seldom is there so much as a slightly
éracked window allowing a bit of fresh air circulation. One can
almost see drousy Morpheus floating through the halls (self-
propelled, not drifting with any breeze) tapping heavy heads
and robbing from them precious moments of work. And com-
fortably settled with a full meal under their belts, the subjects
offer little resistance.

The library can slice its-fuel bill while up the per hour
study output of the student body if it will tone down its ther-
mostat. Goodness knows, there’s enough hot air to contend
with anyway.

Davidsonian But One Group
Deep In Debt To Mr. Jackson

Yesterday's presentation to Mr. F. L. Jackson of an em-
bossed resolution recognizing the former College treasurer's de-
voted service to the YMCA was only an outward manifesta-
tion of what many a campus organization—chief among them
The Davidsonian—feels in its debt to him.

Among his multitude of activities, Mr. Jackson served as
a member of the Publications Board. As such, he rendered a
great service te Quips and Cranks and to Scripts and Pranks, but
to The Davidsonian he was a deeply interested savior.

In the early. postwar years of 1945-46, The Davidsonian
teetered precariously on the brink of extinction. Its copy had
to be toted a week early to Charlotte for publication, it was
3 veritable leech on.the funds of the college, and in general, a
headache to all concerned. There was even talk of abolishing
the paper:

Mr. Jackson would not hear of such action, however,
when Mr. H. C. Broyles came to Davidson to open the David-
son Printing Company, Mr. Jackson arranged for the local
printing of The Davidsonian. whereby costs could be cut and
newsworthiness increased. He advised on advertising improve-
ment and helped the business department through the financial
straits. Steadily, the paper has gained in climbing from the red
to the black, until this year it seems that it will be able to meet
all of its obligations without borrowing from the college.

« His “retirement’’ is hardly slowing Mr. Jackson's active
interest in the town. As mayor of Davidson. he is as busy now
as ever he was in the role which earned him the affectionate
nickname ‘‘Cash.’’ Our greatest wish could be that the com-
munity benefit from his untiring efforts as much as did his
alma mater.

Business Front Foliage Axed
As Shade Yields To Sidewalks

The woodsman’s axe rang along Main Street this week,
and its reverberations were heard in every corner of the campus.

As limbs toppled along the main thoroughfare from Depot
Street to Concord Road, head shaking protests began over the
defacing the business district. The trees with their overhanging
branches, ‘said the nature lovers, are a part of any village picture,
adding to the quiet and simple beauty of a sleepy settlement.

True, trees do enhance the picturesque setting of a small
town, but to face the facts—progress has come to our adopted
town. As in all growing communities, the vegetation in the
heart of the town gives way to stone, concrete and asphalt as
man pushes nature back to make room for his own activities.

Specifically, the trees felled in Davidson this week were
to make way for an extension of sidewalks all the way to the
street, doing away with the park strips. The project has been
one pushed by the Lions Club and various civic groups in town
tor some time now, and is a part of the improved paving works
which are also in evidence on Concord Road, and farther down
Main by the Methodist Church.

The job is not without some cost, local officials point out.
but also not without long due need. The trees, to recess the Joyce
Kilmer school, were dead anyway.

A clergyman, upon hearing that liberalism was creeping
into the churches, remarked: “If that is true, I hope it strikes
the ‘contribution box.’’—Sunshine Mag.

Gossip is a cancerous disease of character. Unless a person
checks upon himself frequently, the illness may reach an almost
fatal stage before he knows he has it.—Cleveland Plain-Dealer.

Vie een 6 2a

> “WHAT 2+ToO Cotd?? NONSENSE
WE PLAY TENNIS IN WEATHER

THE

*-SPORTING MISCELLANEA’** a,

BY PANCHO (\1 ~TAKE- BADMINTON “PIEAT- SEMESTER) MARY .

r-

Twice THIS

DAVIDSONIAN

a?

e

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

“Tavender In The Windows, 20
Ballads Stuck About The Wall”

Once upon a time there was a
little girl who lived all alone in a
gray stone castle. Now this castle
had.a moat around it and great high
walls so that no one could come
or go. The little girl, whose name
was Susan, lived ‘way up in the top
of the castle, where she could look
out. over the high gray walls and
see all the people walking about
‘in the town that grew along the
edge of the moat.

Susan used to make her dolls
walk around the way the people
did, and pretended that she was in
town and that the dolls were real,
for you seé, she had a lot of pretty
dolls, all sizes and shapes, expres-
sions and natures. Now you would
think that any little girl with so
many dolls and such a big castle
and so wide a view of the town
would be happy, but Susan wasn’t
happy at all. For you see, little
Susan had a wicked old stepmother
who wouldn't ever let her leave the
room on top of the castle.

Susan didn’t mind being locked

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

up as much as you think, because
she wasn’t sure that she would like
to live with all the people she saw;
in fact, sometimes
quite tited of looking at them, and
for days would negleot her dolls.
She did wish, though, that she
could have, perhaps, two or three
real live people to talk to, so that
she could be happy, and sing, and
show off like the people that lived
in the town that grew along the
edge of the moat.

So at night when the people
were quiet, and the stars came out,
Susan would wish and wish for
just a little bit of the village to be
brought to her. One night, as she
was wishing ‘specially hard, she
saw a light appear over her bed,
and felt. a soft, gentle hand on
her shoulder. Susan knew that
something extraosdinary was hap-
pening, -because her wicked old
stepmother never came up to the
top of the castle after the people
were quiet and the stars had come
out,

A PERSONAL OPINION:

Should Davidson College Drop

From Southern Conference? ?

By R. S. ENGLEHART

As a preface to my remarks here,
I would like to call the reader's
attention to the fact that what I
am about to say is no more than
an expression of my own personal
opinion as to the present status and
future possibilities of football and
other sports at Davidson College,
and is to be construed only as such.

Over the entire nation today we
hear continually a widespread and
growing criticism of the institution
of college athletics with the em-
phasis upon the particular sport of
football. To many thoughtful
Americans it seems apparent that
this peculiar manifestation of the
American way of life has quite out-
stepped its bounds, and has, in so
doing become a dangerous influ-
ence upon the code of ethics which
is characteristic of our culture. It
is pointed ont that such activities
as subsidization, importation of ath-
letically talented young men for
the purpose of playing football, and
the agitaton of both alumni and
public for winning teams are pre-
senting a situation which is detri-
mental to the moral integrity of the
players themselves, the . college
authorities, and the public in gen-
eral.

I would like to concur with this
view, as I have here expressed it.
In my opinion such incidents as
the West Point cribbing scandal
and the basketball fix scandal are
not merely isolated and meaningless
events. They are symptomatic of
a more extensive and deepseated
disbalance in the college sports
scene. They are superficially indi-
cative that something is definitely
'wrong with the basic attitudes by
means of which the athletic situa-

cent articles in our leading maga-
zines and our daily newspapers
seem to lend credence to the belief
that Americans in general are sup-
porting college athletics with a
set of unhealthy motivations.

It appears that one of the basic
reasons for the present situation
is the existence of an attitude and
desire on the part of the American
people to win at all costs, Every-
thing else of merit is subordinated
te the ided! of competitive superi-
ority, This American “win psychol-
ogy” is at the root of the pernicious
effacement of ideals of academic
attainment on the part of many
institutions of higher learning.
Emphasis upon sports, produced by
a terrific pressure from the alumni,
is detrimental to the proper pur-
pose of educational institutions
which is the education of youth.
In addition, the moral standards
of talented athletes, caught in the
web of college athletics, are sub-
verted by the knowledge that some-
thing can be had which isn’t de-
served, Colleges and universities,
finding that the only way to gain
public attention is to produce win-
ning teams, cater to the lowest
form of public morality. The com-
petition to create winners grows
continually in a vicious spiral which
seemingly never reaches its top.
The underlying difficulty with this
type of thing is that only one team
can emerge victorious, and that for
every winner there must be a loser,
with the consequence that the losers
strive to become winners, while the
winners endeavor to retain their
favored positions as winners.

Here at Davidson the status of
football and other sports is at

tion is approached in too many of[ present and has been in the past

our colleges and universities, Re-

(Continued On Page Four)

she became

Soon Susan saw what was mak-
ing the light, and she saw whose
hand it was, and she gasped. For
standing beside her was a beautiful
lady in a long white gown, ‘hold-
‘ing a wand that shimmered and
seemed to move almost like a row
of the brightest stars.

“I am your fairy godmother,
Susan," said the beautiful lady,
“and I have come to make you
happy, You may have three wishes,
but you must choose carefully, for
I can never come again.” Susan
was so surprised that she did not
know what to say for a moment,
but she had read fairy stories by
the brothers Zola, Lewis, Shaw and
Caldwell, so she knew that her
fairy godmother was on the level.
She thought of wishing for a mil-
lion dollars, but that wouldn't be
tight, since Zola’s hero would steal
his ‘million; next she began to wish
for a trip to the village, but she
remembered that Lewis’s hero
tried that and wished that he were
in a castle, Since she very much
wanted Shaw to keep on writing
fairy tales, she was careful not to
wish for the millennium, and she
steered away from birth control,
because Caldwell’s hero would never
have forgiven her.

“Ah my,” she sighed, “whatever
in the world shall I do?” But sud-
denly she remembered how much
she wanted to sing, and show off
like the people in the village be-
low. So her first wish was to be

(Continued On Page Four)

O. D. K. SPEAKS:

NAT DANIEL:

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1951

Christian.Concepts Applied:
“Let Us Love Our Neighbors”

Oftentime in Alumni Journals, in
speeches at fund-raising banquets,
and from the platform in Chambers,
we hear the term, “Christian gentle-
men” . used synonymously with
“Davidson students.” This flatter-
ing appellation has been tacked on
to us pretty frequently since 1837,
either by those -who don’t know
all of us very well, or those who
want to keep us unspotted in the
eyes of potential philanthropists.
But are we really Christ-like and
gentlemen? Do we, in every aspect
of our lives, attempt to approach
the standards which He preached
and exemplified on earth? Do we
try with all our physical and spirit-
ual strength to grow toward the
perfection which His life sym-
bolizes? Of course we can never
achieve this perfection in this
world, but Christ, unlike the nat-
ural world, accepts good intentions
accompanied by faithful striving,
but He expects no less than this
from us,

Now one of the basic principles

of Christ's teachings was what He
designated as the second great
commandment, “Thou shalt love
thy neighbor as thyself,” and it is
in this particular that the David-
son student body seems to be sadly
lacking at times. ,

One of the many aspects of the
humorous, according to philoso-
phy, is that type in which an at-
tempt is made to approach a stan-
dard, and we laugh at those who
fail in the attempt because we feel
superior to them, so from a strictly
philosophical point of view, the
substandard behavior on the part
of our fellowmen might be con-
sidered funny. But would Christ
have laughed? I doubt it. We see
our friends or associates doing the
wrong thing, and making public
asses of themselves, but do we try
to help? Usually the answer is
“No.” We laugh at the wayward
fellow man, and we gossip about
him, we use him for entertainment,
and we smile with a wicked grin,
but we don’t really try to help him.

Of course your answer and
rationalization of this attitude will
be the stock-in-trade, “But that
kind of a person can’t be helped.
If talked to, he won't listen, if
reasoned with he only rebels, and
any effort would be just a waste
of time.”

In our American society today
this sort of thinking probably re-
lieves a good many pious Presby-
terian’s conscience, but would
Christ have talked about his
brothers—his people like that. He
remembered something we ‘are
prone to forget—the person con-
cerned is a human being, and we
all have the same Creator. And so
we go on our merry way—having
a good time, laughing with the rest
of the crowd and forgetting about
the existence of others besides our-
selves and yet with a perfectly
clear conscience go right on hearing
ourselves referred to as “Christian
gentlemen” without ever stopping
to think about what the term really
means.

Mr. ‘T’ at D.C.
Is No ‘Square’

By F. D, PEPPER

Is there a definite fashion or
style at Davidson or is it purely a
matter of personal preference as
to the types of clothes we wear.
To telt the truth I don’t believe
anyone knows exactly but there
does seem to be two well defined
paths which are followed.

First of all there 1s no set cule
on what you have to wear—that is
within certain limitations. From
this freedom we get the typical
campus outfit, consisting of over-
alls or kackie (not to be related
with ROTC) pants and a tee-shirt
with a sweater thrown in for colder
weather. Take these two and throw
in brogans or unwhitenable bucks
and you have it. Of course there
are the more conservative now and
then who stick to stiff-collar shirts
and regular flannel or woolen pants.

When the weekend rolls around,
however, we notice a decisive
change in attire. If it’s suits they
are usually of the darker colors and
are mainly single-breasted. Econ-
omy plays a big role in this due
to the fact that you have a sport
coat merely by switching trousers.
Sports coats are as popular as usual
with plaids- and checks in lighter
colors prevalent. Cashmere sweat-
ers (at $18.507), button-down roll-
collar shirts in light pastels, argyll
socks, plain or two-tone belts,
chords: both plain-toed and wing-
tipped, and of course the ever handy
“Rept” tie are mainly the week-
end trench except for those lost
souls who date during the week.

Having some doubt in my mind
as to the authenticity of the past
few statements I will close with
just the following:

“As to matters of dress, I would
recommend one never to be first
in the fashion nor the last out of
it."—(J. Wesley.)

DICK ROPER:

5000 People Homeless In S. C.;
Town Is Destroyed By H-Bomb

It has been nearly a year since
the Federal government told some
five thousand people in the vicinity
of Ellenton, South Carolina, that
they would have to move. The
Atomic Energy Commission wanted
their land, and every last one of the
five thousand were confronted with
expulsion from their homes and
severanct of land ties generations
old.

A few days after the news broke
an attachment to one of the Ellen-
ton city limits signs appeared
which expressed the feelings of
the stunned South Carolinians.
Crudely lettered on rough boards,
it was an Impressive sign of the
times. It read:

“It is hard to understand why
our town must be destroyed to
make a bomb that will destroy
someone else's town that they love
as much as we love ours. But we
feel that they picked not just the
best spot in the U.S. but in the
world. We love these dear hearts
and gentle people who live in our
home town.”

Ig was touching, to say the least.
To many it was heart-rending. But,
said people, it was all for a
good cause—to make parts for a
new siper-weapon which would
give us the upper hand and make
aggressors think twice before they
attacked us. So the people of El-
lenton and the surrounding areas
packed their belongings, sold their
land, and got out.

And now, one year later, what
is the situation at the new H-bomb
plant?

Waste, labor racketeering and
lack of security, according to a re-
port corroborated by Congressman
Wheeler of Georgia, who has act-
ually been to the new plant, dressed

in overalls and pretending to seek
a job. He said he was told he
would have to become a union
member and pay dues before he
could get work, and that he found
many of the workers loafing on the
job.

He also reported that he roamed
the area without being stopped by
guards.

It is fortunate that North Caro-
lina’s Representative Graham A.
Barden has decided to conduct a
congressional investigation of con-
ditions at the billion-dollar plant.

What Rep. Barden will find, if
all unofficial reports made so far
are to be believed, is a situation of
corruption which seems only typi-
cal of the present times.

The thanks the people of Ellen-
ton are getting for their sacrifice
is the undermining of the economy
of the region surrounding the plant
brought about by illegal fabor do-
ings. ;

The assurance they are getting
in the way of being protected is that
the new plant could evidently be
blown up by saboteurs without too
much trouble,

The people of Ellenton, however,
are only representative of the whole
American tax-paying public who
are seeing their money poured
down rat-holes, watching corrup-
tion in government grow to alarm-
ing proportions, and helplessly let-
ting minority groups ruin their
economy.

What is so appalling about the
whole situation is that it seems to
grow worse every day. The in-
vestigators investigate, and then
someone investigates the investi-
gators, and nobody seems to get
a whole lot done. :

Silent Tap Day Puzzles Students, Ires Members.....

By BRYAN W, ROBINSON

A good many people stopped me
after ODK tap day the other day,
and wanted to know why some-
thing wasn’t said about what was
happening, that the freshman didn’t
know what was coming off. A few
freshmen stopped me and asked me
what were the boys tapped for,
what did it mean and so on. I
expected this reaction. The pro-
gram was planned as it was pre-
sented, and here is why.

I-have been on this campus now
a little over three years, I have yet
to see ODK act as if it were made
up of a group of leaders. When I
came up here, I was advised to try
to make ODK rather than Phi
Beta Kappa, for ODK represented
the real leaders, the well-rounded
students in any student body. I
came to Davidson pretty green and
was awed by the ODK’s I met...
but not for long. The organization
was ineffectual, lazy and did not
even attempt to lead student
opinion on various issues.

Last spring when I was tapped,
I swore to myself that while 1 was
in it, ODK was going to get a
new lease on life. Here was the
greatest potential molder of stu-
dent opinion on the campus. We
were chosen for our leadership, and
we are going to use those talents.
ODK is in a unique position here.

A strong voice is often needed,
worthy projects that affect the
whole student body need initiating
and organizing.

So, the silent tap day was doubly
symbolic. Its silence signified ODK
in the past. The fact that the fresh-
men did not immediately know
what was going on bears out this
accusation, They should have ODK
so well in mind that they know
before they come here what ODK
is and what it means to be tapped
into it.

Omicron Delta Kappa was found-
ed December 3, 1914, at Wash-
ington and Lee University by fif-
teen student and faculty leaders.
In the tradition of the idealism and
leadership of George Washington
and Robert E. Lee, the founders
formulated the idea that all-around
leadership in college should be
recognized, that representative men
in all phases of college life should
cooperate in worthwhile endeavor,
and that outstanding students and
faculty members should meet on
a basis of mutual interest, under-
standing and helpfulness.

The motives which guided the
founders sprang from a desire to
bring together in one body for the
general good of the institution all
leaders in the various forms of
college activities. They had the con-
viction that such an honor society
would afford student and faculty

leaders abundant opportunities and
experiences in cooperative effort
for leadership and service in the
institution for the maintenance and
improvement of the unity and de-
mocracy of learning and of the art
of democratic living.

The ODK society has three
purposes. First, to recognize men
who have attained a high standard
of efficiency in collegiate activities
and to inspire others to strive for
conspicuous attainments along
similar lines. Second, to bring to-
gether the most representative men
in all phases of collegiate life and
thus to create an organization
which will help to mould the senti-
ment of the institution on questions
of local and intercollegiate interest.
Third, to bring together members
of the faculty and student body of
the institution on a basis of mu-
tual interest and understanding.

ODK recognizes and encourages
achievement in echolarship; ath-
letics; social and religious affairs;
publications; and speech, music, and
dramatic arts.

ODK places emphasis upon the
development of the well-rounded
man both as a present member of
his college community and as a
prospective contributor to a better
society. The Society believes that
while good scholarship and intel-
lectual development are the chief
objectives of the college years, the

life on the mind is not the only
life students will have to cope with
as the result of their college ex-
perience. It is not enough to be
merely a “scholar;” other indis-
pensable qualities have to be culti-
vated also. Students and faculty
members have more clearly to un-
derstand that the self is truly a
composite of the hand, the heart,
and the spirit as well as the mind.
Omicron Delta Kappa believes that
the real search for truth, the pro-
motion of good will, the develop-
ment of consideration and under-
Standing, good taste, and a sense
of honor, learning how to get along
and cooperate with others and the
assumption of duty and responsi-
bility, are important lessons and
personal qualities which one learns
and develops through an integrated
Program of academic and extra-
curricular education.

The Society further believes that
Progressive and intelligent develop-
ment in campus citizenship re-
quires the opportunity and free-
dom to engage in purposeful activ-
ities carried on by Students with
friendly counsel and association of
faculty members,

ODK posits five indispensable
qualifications for membership:
character, leadership and service in
campus fe, scholarship, fellowship
and consecration to democratic

‘(Continued On Page Pour)
