PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR

ee
EDITOR IN CHIEF .---.------------------ GORDON SCOTT
BUSINESS MANAGER .----- pe eeeneeneene-= JOHN LOFTIN
re

. 1
Associate Editors .-.----- Tom Mann, Jim Murray, Hartley Hal
Features Editor ~-.----------- ---------2-7-°07-" Shelley Beard
Managing Editors .--- ---- Pete Kalogridis, Bill Adams, George

McMurray, Ed Richardson
Photographs—Pete Ormsby
Photographer—Raymond Lynch
Sports Editor—Bill White Proofreader—Wallace Abbott
_.-.---- Alex Goley
Manley McWilliams

Ansley Moses
Jack Turner

City Editor—Nat Daniel
Art Editor—Jim Fickeisen

Assitant Business Manager -------------- ---
Advertising Manager ----------------------
Circulation Manager ~-.---------------------007777
Collections Manager -----------------------7707-7*

Subscriptions Manager -----------------------0-7- --7->

Faculty Advisor—Prof. Henry T. Lilly

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,

N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

“Davidson Gentlemen”

Chapel conduct has been the perennial topic for edi-
torialization, even though for the past three years each
incumbent editorial staff has sworn off the subject as being
one in which any attempt to influence the actions of the stu-
dent body would be futile. However, assuming that debate-
able, one trying to detach himself from the situation might
observe that further silence on the question would be
sanctioning our animalistic behavior either in maintaining
at the present level or developing to a more highly special-
ized stage our already reknown competence in the art of
frustrating platform speakers (particularly those “afraid
of us,”’ and those ‘‘preachers in the middle of the week”).

If the administration can rightly—and it seems legiti-
mate that they can— expect our willingness to participate
reverently in a daily group devotional period by the mere
fact of our presence at Davidson College, then we would
like to be the first to applaud Dr. Cunningham for his
reprimanding and constructively suggestive talk in chapel
last week. At Jeast he was right in saying that though we
had not meant to be, we had, nevertheless, been ivreyerent,
insolent, crude, and otherwise ungentlemanly and pagan
like in our chapel conduet—and he was probably ton kind
in saying that we had not meant to be. The main criticism
of his reprimand is that it is probably two or three years

overdue.

However, if there be some who contend that the ad-
ministration cannot rightly presuppose our reverent con-
formance to a system of daily group devotionals by our
choice in coming here, then we must lay aside Dr. Cunning-
ham’s talk and ask ourselves, ‘‘Why have a daily group
devotional period at all?’’ If this is a supposed important
feature distinguishing us from secular institutions then
why attempt to maintain it as an integral part of our
curriculum when there is such a rebellious attitude toward
it, for in reality we are not distinguishable. If vigorous
external pressure has to be exerted to inject an atmosphere
and attitude of reverence, then why not admit the hypoc-
risy and say that because of our failure to select the re-
ligiously minded students we had supposed, our failure to
jmapress upon our students the significance of a daily group
devotional period, and our success in killing and stifling
whatever religious leanings our students had when they
enter Davidson, we must discard the devotionals, or any -
type of religious exercise during the chapel period, and
look to the day when eventually we shall have to discard
Vespers. Even though there may be some significance to
some of these points, it seems most would agree that they

are a misrepresentation of the real situation.

These seem to be the facts: (1) ‘when .we entered Da-
vidson, we implicitly manifested our willingness to par-
ticipate in a daily group devotional exercise; (2) the mas
jority of students have at least some religious tendencies,
which, if the question were forced, would admit of some
significance in a daily devotional period ; (3) the majority
of students at least know how to be polite and courteous,

even if such knowledge is often not exhibited.

Assuming the above facts to be true, it would seem
then that the administration and faculty have a legiti-
mate right to expect behaviont eonsistent with our atti-
tudes and implicit commitments. If some of 8 are dissatis-
fied with having a daily group devotional period, then
because we implicity signified our willingness to par-
ticipate in such when we entered Davidson, our only re-
courses are either to assume a pseudo-religious and
-courteous attitude in chapel, or, withdraw from Davidson
College. However, if some of us are dissatisfied only with
the manner in which some of our chapel programs are
planned, not planned, or conducted, or, all three, then our
only recourse is to exhibit inwardly and outwardly a re-
ligious and courteous attitude, and, if we are really as
concerned as our rebellious expressions seem to indicate,
feel some compulsion to make suggestions for improvement
of programs. In neither case is there excuse for our ir-
reverence and discourtesy. Where is this Southern gentil-
ity and knighthood we so ardently and hypocritically
claim to possess, and to which we pay such homage?

What then can we do as a group interested in the proper

solution?

Some have suggested doing away with devotions on
student days. But, it is extremely doubtful that, if this
were done, any incremental effect on our piety would be

shown on non-student days.

Since Dr. Cunningham's suggestions have gone un-
heeded and apparently his criticisms scoffed at implicitly

(Continued On Page Six)

THE’ DAVIDSONIAN

SRBRBERERERERER

Kelerelereleie|

“Tins ts A SPORT THe STUDENTS
Here CALL ‘cHAPEL’.”

fe nele/

eee eee Leet RCS OR:
OO

velejeleieleieleveiacele cele

fee)

From The Daily Tar Heel

ON FRATERNITIES

By BOB SELIG

I believe that the fraternity system is an
evil, but I have joined one. Why? Because fra-
ternities are a necessary evil, just like death
and taxes.

Why are they necessary? They are neces-
sary because most people have mediocre per-
sonalities. They cannot run into a person on
campus, say hello, shake his hand, and become
his lifelong friend. They are too uninteresting
to make friends easily. Sue, of course, may be
really fine men and women, but introverted
and withdrawn. They are in the same boat as
the dull ones. Such college students find that
they are not making as many friendships and
contacts during their college life, as they
shonld, and these are two of the most impor-
tant things to be fonnd at a college or wniver-
sity, A fraternity is the best answer for these
students. A college campus is, after all, a big
place, and fraternities can he p big help to
anyone in getting tn know people,

Why, then, are fraternitien evil? What's
wrong with them! They encourage snobbery,
unequality, discrimination, and personal abuse.
Too many of the practices and activities of a
fraternity are a waste of valuable time. And
they may curtail the freedom and individual-
ity of a sensitive individual to a pont which is
intolerable.

Why does one man get 15 bids and another
none? Because he has whiter teeth and a big-
ger grin? Possibly," but probably not. I think

the reason is that he belongs to the right fam-
ily, the right religion, the right social class,
and has the right amount of money.

If a fraternity member is asked to cut up
paper streamers out of Kleenex for a big week-
end winding and, as a result neglects his psy-
chology homework, or his work in student gov-
ernment, or his publications job, then he is
wasting his time and so is the fraternity.

If a fraternity man is coerced into going to
the big lacrosse match at Hogwash, South Caro-
lina, when he would rather be home making
finger paintings or visiting his girl in Wash-
ington, then his freedom and individuality are
being curtailed,

If a pledge in blackballed or a member gets
a knife in the hack from another fraternity
man because of personal reasons, that is per-
sonal abuse and ‘a very ugly thing.

There ia a wide range of abuse in fraterni-
ties, Some are more enlightened than others.
Some are aware of the limitations and draw--
backs of the system. Some are trying to cor-
rect them. The elected head of my fraternity

disagreed with what I have written, but had

no objections to my going ahead and printing
it That is a pretty good example of fair mind-
edness,

But too many of the evils of fraternities are
part of the fraternity idea and inherent in the
system. What would we do without it? I really
don’t know.

NON Panos OS Oe 8

Wax Scratchings

Don Cherry is back in the rec.
ord news this week with a new
Decca release, “The Seven Won-
ders of the World.” The ork-cho-
tus work on this one rivals even
his very popular discing of “Think.

ing Of You.” You will have to hand,

it to this guy, it isn’t everyone who
can gain national recognition after
making only one record. He just
has a style all his own and after
all, that’s all it takes. ‘

If I were asked to make a nom-
ination for the top platter of the
week Nat King Cole’s waxing of
“Jet” and flip side “Magic Tree”
would get top billing without a
second thought. Nat’s best since
“Orange Colored Sky” this little
platter is rapidly gaining in popu.
larity, and if the present trerd con-
tinues could easily become one of
his all time hits,

“Tennessee Waltz” nas been fin.
ished by Spike Jones and his Thirty
Tune Wreckers, and not even “T.
Waltz” deserves such a gastly end-
ing. They give it the usual treat-
ment and after one hearing you
will swear off the tune for life.
This same destructive force has
been applied to his “Rapsody From
Hunger(y)” in which the melody
is carried by the cow bell section
and joined on the chorus by a
cackling chicken. If you're look-
ing for a grin this is definitely the
number for you.

Some of you will remember
when Dick Contino, the accord-
ionist, played on the Horace Heidt
Program last year. Well now he
not only has his own program, but
is recording for the RCA Victor
label. For those of you who like
him or accordian music in general
his new album will be one of the
prizes of your collection. Give it

By BOB WHEELES

a listen and see. The guy's really
good!

Dinah Shore and Tony Martin
seem to be doing quite well on their
etching, “A Penny A Kiss,” but
then with a combination like that
you can't go wrong. Tony does
some mighty fine solo work in
“Would I Love You," Even though
the words do have that same old
“June-Moon” idea Tony handles
them very smoothly, and the song
is given added car appeal by some
excellent orchestration.

“Who Kicked Out The Light
Plug” is Betty Hutton’s latest. As
usual she knocks herself out trying
to put the number across. I have
about as much use for her as a
case of the small pox, but you
“people” who like her may get a
big bang out of it.

The Mercury people are undonbdt-
edly rubbing their hands together
as thé coin begins to flow in from
sales of Frankie Laine’s “Dear,
Dear, Dear” which is selling quite
well even though it would hardly
race the motor of even the most
avid Laine fan. The flip side, “May

The Good Lord Bless And Keep
You” is somewhat better. You'll
probably he hearing from it in the
next few weeks. Have you noticed
how many more religious songs are
being made these days than sever-
al years ago? “Our Lady Of Fat-
ima,” Doris Day's “The Everlast-
ing Arms" and “The Twenty-Third
Psalm” and other songs of the
same type are beng played more
and more. Maybe we're ushering in
what will be known in music his-
tory as the “Religious Fifties.”

I'm about to scrape the bottém
of the barrel, but while we’re down
here among the scrapings maybe
you won't begrudge me a word
about Mel Blanc’s “I Taut I Taw
A Puddy Tat.” Admittedly it's
quite stupid, but if yau've over
laughed at a cartogn you won't be
able to hold back the grins when
you hear this ditty.

With the barrel scraped clean
there's nothing to do but close up
shop until next week. I'll try to
have all the latest poop on “what's
new in the platter field” for you
then. ,

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS
Do you favor the semester system or the quarter system?

SEMESTER — 24 Pot.

QUARTER — 76 Pet.

In the semester system, do you favor some break of at least
three days between semesters!

Do you believe that the final examination should count:

More than 33 Pet. .......

Scan poesone qWweomne - 1 Pet,

25°93 Pet. O90 O28 8228 BE ONS ATOMS AAESOUMS 17 Pot,
Less than 25 Pet. ............-.-------.---.-~-22 Pot.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1951
LLL

QRRGRERERRRERERR THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) Reports at New Delhi indicated a deeper push into Western Tibet

by Red forces.

2) General Eisenhour’s address asked the U. S. to help build “a wall of
security” to be defended “until communistic imperialism dies of its own

inherent evils.~

3) Catholics were warned by Rome not to give credence to miracles
which are not recognized by the Church.

4) Raymond Swing said the Soviet Union is probably pledged to use its
Far Eastern Air Force in case China bases or cities are attacked by

U. S. Planes.

S$) The ‘French outlook in Indo-China was brighter last week. Britain
still has troops in Malaya for somewhat similar reasons.

6) The rail strike in Eastern United States began to subside, at least

for the time being.

7) Canada announced her three year defense program, which has been
presented to the House of Commons. It includes a forty squadron air

force.

8) One apparent effect of the branding of China as aggressor was a
stiffening of resistance and the determination behind that resistance.

Geech’s Goulash

By PAT McGEACHY

We fell to wondering, as all. sec.
ond rate philosophers do, about a
question. Several students have
been heard to say, over the course
of our four year stint, that they
wished the Male Chorus would
come down to earth and sing some
things that everybody knows and
enjoys. Possibly this question
should be left for more talented
music critics to deal with, but it
interested us, and so we tried to
look more fully into the situation,
asking around in the music circles
for an answer. In general, this is
what we got, and it can best be
illustrated, we think, by a couple
of analogies.

A lot of people like cowboy pic-
tures. This is not a bad thing, of
course, but this does not make the
cowboy pictures the best type of
picture. Despite the fact that more
people enjoy reading detective stor-
ies and pulp novels than Shakes.
peare and Tolstoi, no educated per-
son would debate the merits of
these greater works, simply be-
cause they are enjoyed ky a min-
ority. And professors: in the Eng-
lish department—are they obligat-
ed to teach pulp novels to the stu-
dent body because they are much
more enjoyable to most? It would
probably be a lot more interesting
to most people if instead of phy-
sics books, we read exciting tales
of scientific achievement such as
“Twenty Thousand Leagues Un-
der the Sea,” but in the pre-med
courses, we are taught a lot of
details, quite dry to some people,
but infinitely necessary to a sci-
ence major. Then why should the

‘music department be obligated to

offer music simply because it is
popular, when it is the duty of a
college to stimulate a student to
the better things in the fields of
Hberal arts?

Now naturally it is not the place

FROM—

of the music department to try to
force its tastes onto the students,
just as the English professor has
no right to insist that Tolstoi is
better than Erskine Caldwell, but
it is his duty to allow the students
to’ taste of what he considers the
best in literature, and let them be
given the chance to appreciate it
at least.

If, then, it is the first duty of
the music department to present
what it, as a department of men
well educated in the field of music,
believes to be the best, they must
do this before anything else. Un-
fortunately, in a school as small
as Davidson, and with the limita..
tions that it has, nearly all of the:
time of the music department must
be spent toward this end. It would!
be nice if the Male Chorus could
learn “Begin the Beguine,” and
“When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” or
other songs, and present some very
entertaining programs to the stu-
dent body. But fortunately, our mu-
sic department has the eyes to see:
that it must first fulfill its duty as
an educator, before the idea of les-
ser entertainment can be ap.
proached. This is unfortunate, as
we said, but it is not an irrepara-
ble condition.

If an organization could be
formed on the campus, among the
students, with the end in view of
producing popular programs, there
are many talented students, sing--
ers and directors, who are not im
the Male Chorus or Band, and
could find time to help out. Per
haps this would not be practical,
but under our present set up, the:
Chorus and Band will have to be:
predominately educational. Per..
sonally, we feel that an organiza-.
tion of pop singers is feasable—.
something formed like the Cripple
Creek Boys. But anyway, its a
thought.

The Editor’s Mailbox

Editor

The DAVIDSONIAN
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

Last week the Faculty Commit.
tee on Fraternities asked social
fraternity presidents und the presi-
dent of the Campus Club to ex.
clude so-called road trips from
their pre-initiation week schedules.
There was no alternative. In doing
so, the faculty sunk talons deeper
into the soft flesh of the last ves-
tige of student control. Done for
ostensibly sincere and just reasons,
this action is a crucial step in leav-
ing fraternity governments wide
open to complete faculty domina-
tion in the future. This leter is
not an attempt to deny the faculty's
concern for student welfare, but
to condemn its manifestation in

said move.

An immediate and rather over.
worked reaction would be to chant
that such is “the way of our col-
lege, always has been and always
will be. Those unwilling to ac.
cept may leave at any time.” If
everyone unwilling to accept left,
there would be few thinking stu-
dents at Davidson. It would seem
that this college was originally de.
signed to better prepare young men
for the varying problems they will
be required to meet in their later
social, religious, and political lives.
Fraternities here at Davidson, by
merit of their government by the
members thereof, are a very live
representation of the total demo-
cratic system under which we live.
Increasing faculty control of these

groups is hardly trainieg young
men to govern them. If the desire
to exercise their power as indivi.
duals is stifled here, whilé minds
are yet forming basic concepts,
what hope can there be that the
owners of these minds will later
defend this power before the grind-.
ing heel of a godless Communism?

Would anyone deny that these
scavenger hunts are many times
more civilized than the barbarous
and often immoral practices which
will inevitably return as a result?
One could find only slight argu-
ment in favor of road trips, but
when one sees them ocmpared with
the vicious “games” practiced else-
where, it seems painfully obvious
road trips are the lesser of two
evils. Again, even this point be.
comes illogical if the faculty plans
to eliminate pre-ittitiation week en-
tirely. “

Public interest and financia? sup-
port are indispensable to any
school and especially to those of
a size comparable to that of Da.
vidson. There must be a line, ad-
mittedly often a thin one, drawn
between appeasement of the public
and the throttling of a democratic
consciousnesg/ among the student
body. There lies the crux of the
problem in question. Possibly this
specific incident of intervention
brought a chortle of satisfaction
from the moneyed public, but it
drew tighter the curtain veiling
student independence and, in pro-
portion, student preparedness for
life.

John Ottley and
Jack Stevenson
