PAGE TWO

THB DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
BDITOR IN CHIEF ..--..-..-.-.------- BILL WHITE
*BUSINESS MANAGER .-.-.-.---------- JOHN LOFTIN
Associate Editors ~..--------- _- Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley
Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Proofreaders: Wallace Abbott and Dick Roper.
*—Business staff pending appointments by Publications Board.

Managing Editors .........-

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Mahy

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C,, under the Act of March 3, 1897,

A Challenge Grows In

Davidson

If ever an administration set about its task with a feel-
ing other than humility at the size of the responsible
opportunity presented it, it is The Davidsonian’s recently
installed regime’s uneasy sense of a futility in the perfor-
mance of such a task—a futility which with oneness fans
a flame in the very challenge which it would seem to
dampen.

The knowledge of the past acceptance of The David-
ponian papers and policies with a weekend perusal that
may, at the most, cause a mild bit of talk that will linger
until the following Wednesday brings the new staff face
to face with the question that every incoming body must
face at the outset-—what ARE our duties and how ean we
carry them out. better than our predecessors?

To take a line from thé out-going editor's editorial of
two week’s ago, a weekly college newspaper can’t set
the woods on fire. But in its striving can’t it come a lot
closer than if it accepted a handicap before the race ever
began? The Davidsonian, editorially speaking, should not
to our way of thinking, and will not attempt, to “mold”
student opinion. In the first place it would be undertaking
the impossible, and in the second place that is the. very
antithesis of the organ’s function. The Davidsonian exists
to express student opinion and to stimulate student thought
through the twins of the journalistic pen, praise and criti-
cism. And it has a never filled furnace to feed in this
duty.

The attempt of The Davidsonian under Gordon Scott
seems to us to have been highly successful, and deepens
the enthusiasm into which we are swept as we launch our
operations. With the first phase of the battle fought and
a good foundation laid with the three underclasses, there
is only the building ability of the new staff as a question
mark before our desired fulfillments. How far The David-
sonian progresses in reaching the student and drawing his
interest is dependent upon the zeal of the new staff.

That zeal is existent and an active one. In associate
editors Pete Kalogridis, George McMurray and Shelly
Beard, The Davidsonian will have three of the ablest
thinkers in the student body. An ambitious, experienced,
and creative trio of managing editors—John Ottley, Frank
Hanshaw, and Larry Dagenhart - form the working nucleus
responsible for coverage, make-up, and paper “appeal.”
Admittedly optimistic, The Davidsonian is looking to a
great year in 1951-52.

Working somewhat on the yellow journalistic theory
of the 1890’s, The Davidsonian believes that through reader
interest in news, sports, and features, an interest can be
be built up in editorial expression that will lead ultimately
to the accomplishment of the paper's chief end. Journa-
listically, The Davidsonian hopes to be improved next
year. Still 2 hope but a probable reality is the: fact that
it will become a standard four-page, eight column paper,
eliminating ‘‘filler’’ material when there is not enough
eopy to fill a six page edition, and creating room that. is
not found in the present four page, seven column paper.

Through its freshmen material The Davidsonian will
strive for improvement also, Beginning next spring is an
award of ten dollars to the freshman ‘who has done the
most for The Davidsonian in his first year of service,
that award to continue for five years, unless of course it
is renewed in the future. Training aids are being prepared
to aid the rookie reporter in his writing, to better the cali-
ber of the news story. For in the freshman class lies the
bulk of the reportorial staff, and for the most part it is
wholly unexperienced and woefully lacking for college
journalism work.

Several other style changes are in the planning stage
to make The Davidsonian a newspaper which can better
serve and find a receptive place among the student body.
The alliterative gems found in the past in the dog ears will
give way to more sound sayings. New features are being
studied, as well as layout improvement.

The new Davidsonian staff is mindful that as its am-
bitions rise with the.early warmth of spring, they may
tend to cool as September chills into October and the cold
routine of approaching winter. It ‘will ever be alert to
the fact that complacency brings corruption and try to
see that it is never self-satisfied. Certainly by attempting
to create student interest it will find itself drawn into a
two-way proposition, enthused as it enthuses.

The challenge, then, which grows out of the feeling of
futility must rise above it. The Davidsonian’s effective
service depends on how ‘well its staff answers the challenge.

THE POT BOILS

By HENRY HANSEN

A few years ago it was a subject of much
debate as to what size the student body of Da-
vidson should be to maintain those qualities
which are peculiar to Davidson. One of the more
important college officials made the statement
at one of the regular Sunday evening “at homes”
that it was his wish and intention to-aim for an
enrollment of not more than six or seven hun-
dred at the outside. It would seem that the
subject is no longer of any particular interest.
Where it is mentioned at all, the general at-
titude seems to be one of lazy and pernicious
complacency. Personally speaking, it has been a
long time since 1 have heard such a statement
as the one mentioned ahove in any quarter where
the power likely to ensure attainment of any
such aim is resident.

Tradition is something about which one does
not exhort until the tradition itself has lost
vitality. To freshmen, the stud is no cause for
eomment. To upperclassmen, it-is or should be
a matter of concern that the honor system failed
completely to function at this point. There was
@ great deal of exhortation but the damage was
done—the stud is now run like any other busi-
ness on the outside. There are other signs that
size as a pure end has and is playing havoe with
those qualities which were the old Davidson.
We are planning a new super dormitory which
will house considerably more than the structure
which it will replace. Even taking into consider-
ation the removal of the cardboard village, it
still represents an increase in enrollment. Honor
went by the board at the stud. Courtesy gets the
cold shoulder in chapel. Professors now receive
treatment in which respect is as alien ‘an ele-

ment as milk in a gas tank. Mammoth new
buildings rise to cater to students who increas-
ingly have no conception of or desire for the
Davidson which was. This is not to say that the
old Davidson was perfect—such a statement
would be patently idiotic. It is to say that there
were certain good features which ‘will be de-
stroyed by increasing the size of the student
body. At the moment the only compensatory
features would seem to be the ascendance of the
star athletic and Neo-Classic buildings full of
people who don’t look, or act like Davidson
students. Hardly worth the price. Davidson’s
facade is compounded of many an old tradition
and idea, some of which, I believe, are worth
retaining. If the present trend continues, its fall
‘will be hardly less dramatic and infinitely more
regrettable than the dust choked collapse of the
old college church.

I am not maintaining a stand against the
large school. However, Davidson is a small one
and to try to emulate the big university in a
small time way places her in a not so faintly
ridiculous position. The gap between the good
small school and even the not so good large
university is a large one. Seven league boots
are needed. Our present ones seem to be size
two. sO ,

Finally my plea is this—to think seriously
about what kind of a Davidson we want; to con-
sider what increasing size has already done to
the Davidson of five years ago; to remember
that a big gate and lofty spires are not essential,
and may even be detrimental to the essence of
the Davidson which was, the Davidson in which
Christian scholarship was the chief aim.

Gags gram College Auge

Man: “I want a loaf of Mumsie's
bread and a package of Krunchies.”

Clerk: “Sorry, no  Krunchies.
How about Grinkly krisps, Oatsie-
Toasties, Malty-Wheaties, Rice-
lets, or Eatum- Wheatums?”

Man: “The Wheatums, then.”

Clark : “Anything else: Tootsie
Tater Chips, Cheesie Weesies, Gin-
ger Bits, Itsey Cakes, Sweetie
Toofums, or Dramma’s Dough-
nuts?”

Man (toddling toward meat de-
partment):: “Tan't det anysing
else. Dot to det some meat.”

“Did Edison make the first talk-
ing machine, Papa?”

“No, son, God made the first one,
but Edison made the first one that
could be shut off.”

Prospective father-in-law. “And
what, young man, are your pros-
pects?”

“Pretty fine, unless your daugh-
ter has misinformed me.”

Teacher: “In what battle did
General Wolfe cry ‘I die happy.’ ”
Johnny: “His last one.”

The old engineer, well past 70,
was climbing down from his engine
cab for thie last time. His retirement
started next day.

“Don’t you hate growing old?”
a younger man at the terminal
asked.

“Heck, no!” he answered.
T wasn’t old I'd be dead.”

“Tf

Boy: “Say, whatever became of
those old-fashioned gals who faint-
ed when a boy kissed them?”

Gal: “Huh! Whatever became of
the old-fashioned boy who made
them faint?”

“Could I have the morning off,
sir, to help my wife with spring
housecleaning?”

“No. We're much too busy.”

“Thank you, sir, I knew I could
rely on you.”

A guy who-got his exercise by
bending the elbow too much was
trapped one night by his wife. Just
as he was ready to take a gulp of
rye, the littl woman walked into
the tavern. Being in a happy-go-
lucky mood, he offered her a wee
taste. After gagging and sputter-
ing from the sample, she coughed
out: “How can you drink that hor-
rible stuff?”

“See,” said the husband, “and all
the while you thought I was hav-
ing a good time!”

A father brought his overgrown
son to a rural school and said to
one of the teachers:

“This here boy’s arter larnin’.
What is yore bill o’ fare?”

“T teach arithmetic, algebra, geo-
metry, and trigonometry,” respond-
ed the teacher.

“That last one’ll do,” said the
parent. “Load him down with trig-
gernometry. He's the only pore
shot in the family.”

Wax Scratching

This week the spot light’ is on
albums and RCA has just released
some that are strictly tops. They're
entitled “A Treasury Of Immortal
Performances” and I doubt that
any company has put as many all
time hits into so few sides. This
is a chance for you to get some of
those hard-to-get records you've
always wanted to have. Much of
the greatest music by many of the
greatest names in jazz and swing
annals has been collected inte six
big albums. Each side has become
a collectors item since it was first
waxed. All of them headed best
seller lists years ago as individual
platters. Now together, in album
form, the titles read like a “who's
who” in music.

To mention a few, you'll hear:
Charlie Barnet’s “Cherokee,” Duke
Ellington's “Take The ‘A’ Train,”
Artie Shaw’s “Nightmare,” Tommy
Dorsey's “Boogie Woogie,” Glenn
Miller’s “Song of the Volga Boat-
men,” Frank Sinatra’s “Night and
Day,” Earl Hines’ “Boogie Woogie
on the St. Louis Blues,” Duke ElI-
lington’s “Solitude,” the Benny
Goodman Quartet’s “Stomping at
the Savoy” and Lionel! Hampton's
“Flying Home.”

“A Sentimental Journey’—that's
the title of David Rose's new al-
bum on the MGM label. This musi-
cal excursion by the “King of
Strings” includes eight very plea-
sant sides titled: “Moon of Man-
agoora,” “Bewitched, Bothered and
Bewildered,” “When the Wind Was
Green,” “Star Dust,” “Sentimental
Journey,” and “How High the
Moon.” Dave's mellow vocal group,
the Rose Tones, are a very im-
portant factor in the ear appeal

By BOB WHELESS

of these platters.

You know, that “How High the
Moon” really gets around. There
are probably more different arrange-
ments of that one number than any
other all-time-favorite popular tune
on the market. When you hear it
as done by the Jazz At the Philhar-
monic crew and then by Dave Rose
it’s hard to realize that you are
listening to the same song. Now
Les Paul has come along and put
an arrangement on wax that prom-
isess to outsell all previous cuttings
of same. As always he uses the
dubbed guitar and as on several
occasions in the past his wife, Mary
Ford, handles the vocals, which
also are dubbed. Les seems to be
the star who can do no evil as of
late. The last five waxings he has
made have all been smash hits, and
that’s no bad record for any artist.

Nat King Cole has a sure thing
in his terrific etching, “Too Young.”
The record is outstanding in every
department. Nat handles the vocals
to perfection, the solo piano work
is sensational and the orchestra-
tion is beautiful—great is the only
word to describe it. If you like
King Cole you'll certainly like
“Too Young.” Give it a listen!

Tops in keyboard styling is Er-
roll Garner's discing of “People
Will Say We're In Love,” backed
by “Lover.” For my money, Erroll's
the number one piano stylist in
the country today, and cvidently
quite a few others are of the same
opinion judging from the increasing
acceptance which is being given his
new releases,

That idiot, Jerry Lewis, has
turned song bird, and one of the
first fruits of his labors is “Never

Been Kissed.” It certainly is not
the best arrangement of that num-
ber musically, but for laughs it
can't be topped. During the vocals,
Jerry switches from his very high
pitched voice to a deeper one and
back again, all through the platter
as the mood hits him. It's a how!l!

The Starlighter's latest contri-
bution to the wax world is “I
Whistle A Happy Tune,” a. bouncy
little melody that’s doing rather
well in record circles. It may never
get to the top of the hit parade,
but it still makes for some fine
listening. .

Les Brown has cut two oldies
and done a very good job of it too.
They are those two old favorites
“Blue Moon,” and “Red Sails In
the Sunset.” Neither impress me as
being up to par with some of Les’
work in the past, but they're both
worthy of some mention.

I’m betting that Mario Lanza has
another “Be My Love” smash hit in
his new etching, “The Loveliest
Night In The Year.” The number
is from his “Caruso’ ’flick which
won't hurt its popularity any, and
that, combined with the sizzling
tonsils of the phenominal Lanza,
is enough to make any number a
success,

Ray Anthony Proves that he is
out to groove some excellent dance
wax with his latest, “I'll Never
Know Why.” This is one of the
more promising ballads of the day
and should go far in the disc field,
The flip side, “Faithfully Yours”
shows even more promise. It’s a
departure for Anthony who here
uses a choral group against the
normal orchestra work. Both of
these tunes are top quality waxings.

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1951

THE POLL CAT

By SLAYDON MYERS
1. Do you think the intramural sports program is too crowded?

No. ..--.-.------ ween nnn nen ween 67 %.

2. If so, what sports do you think should be dropped?

(1) Horseshoes

(2) Handball
(3) Volleyball
(4) Tennis

3. Can you think of any sports which should be added to our in-

tramural program ?

(1) Golf

(2) Ping Pong

(3) Wrestling
(4) Soccer

Geech’s Goulash

By PAT McGEACHY

Occasionally, in reading some-
thing you have to read, you run
across something worth repeating.
We have always held steadfast to
the belief that anybody's words are
better than ours, even Harry whats-
isename, and that’s saying some-
thing. So we offer for your peru-
sal a brief dash of Walt Whitman's
“Song of the Open Road”:

Allons! whoever you are come
travel with mel
Traveling with me you find what
never tires.
The earth never tires,
The earth is rude, silent,
incomprehensible at first,
Be not discouraged, keep on,
there are divine things well
envelop’d,
I swear to you there are divine
things more beautiful than
words can tell.

Perhaps the only excuse for al-

‘lowing something like this to ap-.

pear as a column is to call the
column a “goulash,” which can con-
tain most anything. But we would
like to say a word or two about
this passage.

Do you ever get the notion some-
times that you are the only person
who is doing any real thinking? Do
you éver glance at the occupied
faces passing you and wonder if
they are occupied on trivia, or if
maybe they have something im-
portant on their concealed minds?
Or do you think yourself? That is,
do you think honest-to-goodness
thoughts—not just, “That hurts”
or “That tastes good,” or “I have
three pages of Spanish to trans-
late”? But, “What am I doing here,
and what should I do about it?”

Some people think a lot, some
don’t very much, and some don’t,
unfortunately. But it's a good thing
to cultivate. You've got to have
a philosophy of life, or you simply
don't live. If you're completely sel-
fish and pleasure seeking, you may
be wrong, but you have something

to live for. The only trouble with
that is that most of us are pretty
poor excuses for living.

However, our text for this morn-
ing seems to think that there are
things more important than self-
divine things, incomprehensible,
and unexplainable, but attainable,
somehow. If this be true, a lot
of problems are solved for us. We
don’t have to lose any sleep over
the draft, or grades, or - money
troubles, Not that we can avoid
these problems, they just have very
little meaning when seen in the light
of something bigger and beyond.

Well, what are we getting around
to? A lot of people are scared away
from religion because they see it
as a lot of frightening dogma and
rigid restrictions. Unfortunately,
too many of our denominations put
a great deal more emphasis on this
side of it, and seem to forget that
the important thing is a faith in a
better state of being—a more ma-
ture growth than we can see on
the earth.

If you can’t see it now, it can't
kill you to look for it and the church
offers the only known way to find
it. Nobody ever got anywhere with
a mental block set up against
things. So if you have any prob-
lems about life, or if you have
never thought about life, why not
notice that other men, some of
them deep thinkers, like Walt Whit-
man, have seen superior values in
life somewhere—and scout around
for them?

Nobody ever got licked for try-
ing, but plenty who never try will
find themselves behind the eight
ball when it comes to really
appreciating the fact that you're
alive. And it’s easier to do in the
spring, too.

So we get that off our chests,
with due apologies to those who
already think occasionally. Next
week: How to win at dirty eight,
and other stories.

THE WORLD LAST WEEK

1) Calcutta,-a city of over three million, has been struck by a cholera

epidemic.

2) The Institute of International Education reported thirty thousand
foreign students in American schools this past year. The favorite subject

of study is engineering.

3) As a result of a trade agreement with Argentina Britain hopes to

double her

meat ration sometime in the future.

4) New strikes in Spain have left 250,000 idle in the Basque Industry

alone.

5) General de Lattre’s forces in Indo-China inflicted further losses on

Red guerrillas.

6) The Hungarian Communist government announced that it would re-
lease American Robert Vogeler, who has been held on spying charges.

7) Governmental killing of “criminals” continued in China.

When....

{

you feel in the mood for a
GOOD T-BONE STEAK

come on down to the

College Restaurant

Depot St.

Davidson, BN. 0.
