Slide open the bot-
tom drawer on the
alumni office’s deceased
file, thumb through '40,
"41, '42, '48, °44, down
to '45, and your eye
jumps to the bulkiest
manila folder in the
bunch, labeled “Peters,
Thomas L., '45.”

Therein lie news-
paper clippings and
columns, news releases:
photos, mats, letters,
B® and record sheets—all
_ concerned with Peters,
‘Thomas L., ’45. The fat
package contains about
all the material facts of Tommy Peters there are remaining at
Davidson now. The rest of the Tommy Peters Story is growing
into legend.

The Davidson end of the story has its beginning in the fall
of 1941 when two good-looking youngsters from Kingsport,
Tenn., checked in with the Class of ‘45. One was black-haired,
rudy-complexioned. The other was fair-skinned and blond. The
black-haired boy was George Peters, the blond his twin brother
Tommy. —

The two fell into athleties right off the bat—football, bas-
ketball, baseball and track. Clean cut boys and crack ath-
letes, their stock rose rapidly with tae student body. They were
respected for their style of play as well as their type of play.
Tommy was into everything. He was proving a good rangy end
for Gene McEver’s gridders, basketballing for Norman Shepard
in the winter, and putting the shot for Pete Whittle in the
spring, when he wasn’t looking like what Shepard culled ‘‘the
best looking college baseball player (outfield) I've seen in 25
years.’’ Of course, George was right there, too.

The next fall the nation was at war, and the pinch on man-.
power had begun. Tommy ROTC'd religiously, but his mind
rightfully wasn’t on ‘var, but football. He caught 27 of 53
aerials chunked his way that fall. Came basketball season and
he proved the hottest thing in the conference. His 18.2 average
was second in the nation that year—and that was when TEAMS
rarely scored over 66 points. In the Southern Conference tour-
nament, Tommy was voted the tournament’s valuable player
and its most popular one, although Davidson was knocked out
in its first game. He made the all tourney five and All Big Five
teams. That spring, he continued garnering firsts and seconds
and poking balls over the hedge in left field, until he found
himself the first and only sophomore in Davidson's history ever
to win four major letters.

The summer of 1942, Tommy and George left for the army.
With an ASTP eontingent Tommy moved to Mississippi State,
where with Pat Williams and Bill Currie of Davidson, he played
first string basketball. But basketball soon faded into the back-
ground and the trio moved to Fort Benning. On July 4, 1944,
Tommy Peters became 2nd Lt. Thomas L. Peters.

Tommy was sent to Germany, was made a first lieutenant,
und had been awarded the Silver Star for gallantry. A winter
on the Rhine meant no basketball, but as spring came and the
war seemed to be at last drawing to a close, perhaps Lt. Peters
thought of the sunny April afternoons of tossing the shot at a
paper mark, or lifting a batting practice ball into the East
stands. But on April 9, six years ago Monday, the mortal Tom-
my Peters Story came to a close in northwest Germany, and
there the immortal one began. When Tommy slid into Home for
the last time that spring, he had some familiar red-mud dirt of
‘North Carolina scattered near him. It came from a small jar
which a lieutenant from North Wilkesboro had been carrying
with him throughout the campaign, The Heutenant’s name was
Pat Williams.

Stunned sportswriters and radiomen of the Southern Con-
ference area paid its former athletic great due tribute with
columns, photos, and recollections of his feats. It was over a
year later, however, that Tommy’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Peters, decided to establish the Tommy Peters Memorial trophy.
to be given each year to the boy most typifying the Davidson
spirit in his performance on the athletic field. That meant typi-
fying Tommy Peters. The first award fittingly but deservedly
went to brother George Peters, who had returned to Davidson
to complete his education. It has since gone to George Cheek,
Bill Iverson, and Whit Cobb.

This May, the award will be given for the fifth time. That
is one of the reasons we have retold the Tommy Peters Story.
The class here with the award's first year of presentation has
graduated, and the story has perhaps grown rusty to many who
have heard it second hand. As Norman Shepard commented to
& newspaperman at the presentation in '48, ‘‘I was looking
around to see how many of these boys played with Tommy. I
saw only one—Haywood Brinegar. Tommy Peters isn’t a per-
son to these boys. He’s just a name on that trophy.”

As long as the Tommy Peters Story is told, however, his
name will live in the hearts and memories of Davidson men.
Then when they look at the name on the Tommy Peters Me-
morial trophy, they'll know what it stands for. Remember that
this May.

By BILL WHITE

Lynn Crawley Is Meet High Scorer

Wood Leach made a spectacular
run in the first leg of the relay, but
this wasn’t quite enough as Mc-

After several false starts by
mother nature, the inter-fraternity
track meet was finally held Tues-

‘Duke's Blue Devils rained out af-

day afternoon. At first, it looked
as though the KA’s would walk
away with everything but the start-
er’s pistol and stop watch. How-
ever, as the last sparks flew from
the spikes of the runner’s shoes
and the KA’s made a final grab
fot the title in some brilliant run-
ning by Buddy’ McKaye and Ed
West, it was found that the Phi
Delts had long since put the
title for °50-51 way.

A big factor in the Phi Delts’
victory was Andy Horne as he
matched muscle against matter and
tossed the shot for a new record of
48’ 1°, Along with Horae’s toss,

Kaye and West put on their crowd
pleasing stunt of West falling down
and then going on to win.

Individual scoring went to Phi
Gam Sprinter Lynn Crawley, Bill
McNeely was second bagging first
in the discus and second in the
shot. Crawley captured a first in
the 100, finished second in the
220, and ran a leg on the Phi Gam
relay team.

The Results:

660 yds: 1 - Howell (P.K.A.);
2 - Alten (Phi Delt); 3 - Russell
(Beta); 4 - Kelly (S.A.E.). Time
1:37.4 min.

Shot: 1-Horne

(Phi Delt);

itdcat Sports

ov

EVERYBODY IN

THE AOCT

TOV VV V UV UV VVTUVUY VV TUUUTVVNS UN VVT

FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1951:

Packard To Hurl Dutch Hengeveld,
Paul Eastman In Conference Tests

By CHARLIE HAWKINS

Two fresh hurlers, veteran righthander Fred (Dutch)
Hengeveld and sophomore ace Paul Eastman, were set to go
against Furman and Clemson today and tomorrow as Coach
Frank Packard's baseballers swung into action against South-
ern Conference foes here this weekend.

Their early week contest with
Golfers Looking Up
After Performances

By Hill and McLean

By BILL MORRIS
“I'd put Monty Hill and Mac
Mcl.can against any two golfers in
the Southern Conference,” boasted
Elgin White, the Wildcat links-
men's youthful mentor from Flori-
da, in a discussion earlier this week

of his wide-traveling team.

ter three racks, the Wildcats are
getting their first loop tests
against the Hurricane and the Tigs,
and their first action since the pre-
holiday action with Springfield and
Boston College.

Dutch got the call against the
Blue Devils, but has of course had
sufficient rest to go this weekend.
Eastman is regarded the No. 2 man
on the mound corps, and will this
weekend get his first big varsity
assignment.

The two contests on tap today
and tomorrow will go a long way
toward telling just what improve-
ment has been wrought ig the Cat
baseball talents by Coach Packard.
The Wildcat nine has looked con-
siderably better thus far this year
than “it has in the past several
springs, and these league engage-
ments will serve as a pretty good
indication as to how they may be
expected to stack ‘up in the loop
warfare this year.

Last season the Cats droppel
close ones to Furman and split with
the Tigers, winning one of their

i
two seasonal victories from

Still suffering from sunburn ac-
quired on their Florida tour over
the holidays on which they tangled
with golfers of the Charleston
Navai Base, Rollins, the University
of Florida and Florida State, the
locals have a match with Furman
University in Greenville, S, C., this
afternoon. The Gamecocks of. the
University of South Carolina will
be hosts to Davidson in Columbia
tomorrow in another Southern
Conference match,

Getting back to Coach
White’s comments on his golf-
ers, the Florida native claims
that his team should win the
majority of its remaining
matches, all with Southern
Conference foes. He banks his
hopes on Monty and Mac, na-
turally, and on the much-im-
proved playing of Cecil Bran-
don. Coach White also antici-
pates improvement in the
games of Al Fitzgerald and
Jim Sloan, both of whom have
been off their usual brands of
golf lately.

The “fine hitting” of both Mac
and Monty have given White high

Clemson crew by 6-4. With an
improved nine, two fresh hurlers,
and a home diamond, Davidson's
chances for a rich weekend are not-
far fetched.

Packard opened this afternoon
with Bert Downs behind the plate,
Arnold Whisnant on first, Johnny
Guiton at second, Chuck Elliott at
short, and Lee Talbirt on third
His outfield found Auburn Lam-
beth in left, Bill Rowland in cen-
ter, and Jack Branch in right field.
Most likely reliefs for the chank-
ers were Jim Smith and Harold
Smith.

at White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.,,
around the Ith of May.

Tuesday Davidson copped
third place in the first annual
North - South Intercollegiate
Golf Tournament at the Mid
Pines Cousttry Club at Pine-
hurst, being bettered only by
the University of North Caro-
lina, first, and Wake Forest,
second. Teams competing in
the match dominated by south-
ern teams on its opening year
were UNC, Princeton, Lehigh,
Cornell, Yale, Williams, Am-
herst, Rutgers, Wake Forest,
and Davidson.

Wake Forest and Davidson play
a conference match at the Char-
lotte Country Club next Friday.

Cinder Contingent
Carries Cat Colors
At Carolina Relays

By CHARLIE iNeray

Davidson's cinder men open their
1951 track season at Chapel Hill
tomorrow in the Carolina Relays.
Holding the chief hopes for the
home team will be Captain Bill
Pritchett, and Ken Goodpasture.
Yesterday (Thursday), in his first
workout of the week, Pritchett
turned in a splendid time of 15.6
for the high hurdles. Goodpasture
has been doing consistently well
so far this spring in the 100 yard
dash. A fine showing is also ex-
pected from Roger Cornell in the
broad jump event.

Aside from these will he Roy
White and Tommy Wooten in the
broad jump; Andy Horn, Bill Mc-
Neely, and Don Lazenby putting
the shot; and Joe Miller and Jim
Fickeisen tossing the javelin. High
jump responsibilities will be with
Cornell, and McNeely and Lazenby
will throw the discus, In the run-
ning, Goodpasture will run the 100
yard dash, Pritchett takes the high
Bacon (Phi Delt); 4 - Breeden j hurdles, and Bill Lee will enter
(Kappa Sig). Time 10.5 sec. the 2 mile run. The 2 mile relay

Hurdles: 1 - Spach (Kappa Sig); team will consist of Tom Stockton,
2 - West (KA); 3 - McKay (KA);| Bob Henry, Dick Stockton, and
4- McKeiway (Sigma Chi); Time, Blake Bradley .

14.3 sec. The track team opens its regu-

3-4 Mile: 1-Staley (KA); 2-Ilar dual meet schedule with Mer-

(Continued On Page Four) cer University here next Saturday.

Gastonia Opener
For Frosh Nine

By BILL SLEDGE

The Kitten nine opens the ’SI
season this Tuesday playing Gas-
tonia High in Gastonia. Gastonia,
defending AAA champions, field a
very strong team which looks well
on its way to-another champion-
ship, having conquered Harding
and Tech of Charlotte 36-5 and
13-1, respectively.

The Kittens played the varsity a
practice game last Saturday, losing
7-1. They looked rather stiff, prob-
ably due to lack of outdoor drills.

Tuesday, the Kittens will rely
on Johnny Smith and Claude Book-
er to limit the heavy bats of the
Gastonia boys. They have been
working hard and looked rather im-
pressive against the varsity, Sat-
urday, at times. Wildness was their
big hinderance, but where they set-
‘tled down, they seemed in pretty
good form.

Coach Baird will probably start
Bob Southwell at third, Fred Stowe
at short, Johnny Gray at second,
and Hershell Allen at first. They
have looked good in practice and
show a lot of determination. Big
Bill Glidwelt probably will handle
the catching responsibilities. He
makes a big target and can prob-
ably get good results from the
other end of the battery. A fast
outfield, led by Tim Gilley and
“Punky” Pharr, should keep the
fat averages of Gastonia limited.

This first game with Gastonia
will probably be the hardest test
the Kittens will have all year. A
victory here would indicate a very
good season for them.

2 - McNeely (SPE); 3- Loy (Beta);
4 - Pepper (Beta); Distance 48
feet and 1 inch,

100-yd. dash: 1 - Crawley (Phi
Gam); 2 - Pierce (Phi: Gam); 3 -

hopes for the conference tourney

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

BASEBALLERS HIT .URMAK, TIGS

PAGE THREE

Fresh From Triumph Over Harvard

Netters Buck Tough P.C. Tomorrow

By CHARLIE HASSELL

Strengthening their win record
with two victories over a visiting
Harvard net team, the Wildcat
tennis men travel to Clinton this
Saturday to face one of the strong-
est teams they will meet all sea
son — Presbyterian College. On
Wednesday and Thursday of this
week, the Cat court team defeated
Coach Jack Barnaby’s Crimson
contingent, with an unprecedented
16 individual matches highlighting
the events. Wednesday's score was
a comfortable 12-4, but on Thurs-
day, after winning cight of the elc-
ven singles matches, the Davidson-
ians just did squeeze by in the
doubles, and the final score was a
closer 10-7.

The Wildcats will attempt to
lengthen their: six wins into nine
tomorrow, when they play a match
with Presbyterian that. was rained
out earlier this year. Coach Bar-
ton will change back to his cus-
tomary lineup of six singles and
three doubles, since the exceeding-
ly large number of matches with
Harvard was only for the two Har-
vard matches.

The results of Thursday's match
play with Harvard are: Singles:

&

:

a et ie <r--ae

Strand (D) defeated Bob Bramhall,
6-3, 6-4; Keesler (D) defeated
Charles Ufford 8-6, 9-7; George
Murphy (H) defeated
Kennedy 6-2, 4-6, 6-4; Child (D)
defeated Art French, 7-5 6-3; Dud-
ley (D) defeated ‘Charles Thomp-
son, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Staley (D) de-
feated Bill Goodman, 8-6, 6-2; Bill
Harrington (H) defeated Bivens,
7-5, 4-6, 7-5; Chase Peterson (H)
defeated Wade, 6-3, 6-1; Crosland
(D) defeated Dick Becker, 6-3, 9-7;
Howell (D) defeated Humphrey
Doerman, 6-4, 9-7; Stevenson (D)
defeated Berk Johnson, 6-4, 64.
Doubles: Strand-Keesler (D) de-
feated Bramhall-Goodman, 6-1, 4-6,
6-4; Ufford-French (H) defeated
Wade-Kennedy, 6-2, 6-2; Peterson-
Becker (H) defeated Bivins-Dud-
ley, 7-5, 9-7; Murphy-Thompson
(H) defeated Child-Staley, 6-3, 7-5;
Crosland-Stevenson (D) de-
Harrington-Doerman, 3-6,

and
feated
6-2, 6-4.

There's nothing new about “fly-
ing saucers,” as any comic strip
fan and a good many husbands
will tell you.

Bremer, Johnson
Top Kitten Nets

Davidson’s freshman tennis team
has yet to play its first match but
the frosh hopefuls are already busi-
ly engaged in practicing with the
varsity squad.

This season’s team should fare

‘well enough against other frosh>

aggregations and against the top-
flight high school competition which
it will face.

- Standing high in the hopes of Ten-
nis coach Derrick Barton is hard-
hitting Johnny Bremer from Wil-
mington, N. C. A veteran of high
school competition and winner of
his fair share of the laurels, John-
ny will probably occupy the num-
ber one singles berth on the squad.

Right after Bremer comes Corky
Johnson of Charlotte who played a
lot of tennis for Charlotte Central
in the number four position. His
experience plus his recent improv-
ment promise to make him a rough
customer for all comers.

Three other netmen, less exper-
ienced, but competent nonetheless,
should see plenty of service before
the year is out. They are Scott
Downs, Buford Price and Harold
McDonald.

a ti tn tt i dl

¢ Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests

Number 16...THE HARLEQUIN DUCK

“IT may bea
clown —but

I’m no fool!’’

H. might be the merry-andrew of the

marshlands, but lately he’s been downright glum about
these trick cigarette mildness tests. Never one to duck facts,
he holds nothing much can be proved by a sniff of one brand or a
quick puff from another. Snap judgments can’t take the place

of regular, day-to-day smoking. That’s why 0 many

smokers are turning to...

The sensible test . . . the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test,

which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smoke — on

a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments
needed. After you’ve enjoyed Camels— and only Camels —

for 30 days in your “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste),

we believe you'll know why...

More People Smoke Camels

than any other cigarette!

i,
4
2
j

