WHITE

Se
By BILL

In November you've
no more idea what a
basketball team is go-
ing to be doing in Feb-
ruary than you have
now as to the Red Sox’s
standing on the Fourth

7 ters don’t care about
3 your lack of prophecy.
They want the basket-
ball brochure in No-
vember so they get
the mid-winter dope
three months early.

It’s not too hard.
There’s a stock formu-
‘sla to follow. Any re-

turning starter is nothing short of All-Southern, but without
enough support; all lettermen bring badly needed experience,
and are serapping for starting jobs; all varsity holdovers played
little last winter but are sure to see plenty of service this.year;
and every sophomore was a hotshot freshman who will beyond
any shadow of a doubt make up in scrap, drive and love of
the game for what he lacks in experience and know how.

Comes February and you find you’re hardly the liar you
thought you were—except for the All-Southern malarkey. The

whopper of them all you had told about the sophs, and YOU! nay

beam at your fall foresight after viewing some of their winter
work. The second half of the Furman game, reserve dominated
as it ‘was, shook you in your socks with the ability that the
freshman team had actually come up with. None of them little
Grimaldi’s—if that would be any asset, but they've come along
fast as sophs from a frosh club that wasn’t supposed to con-
tribute much. Now, just what was it you did say about them,
back then when your mind was still on Auburn Lambeth’s five
TD tosses at Richmond, chances against Georgia Tech . . .

BOB GRAHAM: ‘‘Top scorer on the freshman team last
winter, this lanky forward should see a lot of action his sopho-
more season. Pin points them via set or push, but seldom cracks

unless sure of a shot ... Tab him a future Wildeat star.

iB)

No

great prediction here. Bob couldn’t help succeeding. He was

that far along last winter. True,

not burning up the floor but a

strong, dependable. surprisingly cool pressure player who has
relieved swell for Haller and Brooks. (Must remember that last
line on Graham. Use it again next year by deleting ‘‘future.”’

JOE DUDLEY: ‘‘Lean, lanky, and inexperienced, but with
the making of a good pivot man. Showed signs of development
as the frosh year waned last winter and may continue to pick
up as the present season progresses.”’ Frat brother to the con-
trary, you had your doubts about ‘‘Little Joe.’’ Wasn't even
a high school starter and saw only reserve action as a fresh-
man. But then he had looked better toward the year's end.
Result: He picks up where his improvement left off, is gaining
poise and polish with every game, and will soon be filling in for
Al and Woo Woo without a bump in team performance. Don't
think that hand Joe wets when he enters a game can be wholly
uttributed to sympathy for a tall guy’s efforts to beat awk-
wardness. Them's happy claps, and there’ll be more of them.

GEOGGE KING: ‘..

. a 6-3, 185-ppound sophomore who

could develop into a top performer his junior and senior years
... George has the raw materials, and with some polish he will
fulfill the high expectations held for him.’’ With a pinch of two
vames’ polish behind him in varsity competish, George played
the better part of the second half against Furman and rang up
11 points, keeping the Red and Black machine spurting when
it started to sputter. Baird threw him into the fray to pop from
the outside with his one-hander, and the Hurricane zone defense
couldn’t check him. Four of those jobs plus one free throw. Yes-
sir, underline ‘‘top performer his junior and senior year.’’

JIM SMITH: ‘‘Smallest man on the squad at 5-9 . . . never-
theless tabbed for service. Interfraternity hotshot last winter
... Caught Baird’s eye in drills this fall, and now slated for

guard duty. Pops a set shot nicely . .

has been to honors earlier was

.”’ The closest this guy
all-interfraternity selection his

freshman year. He had been pruned from the freshman team.
Yet he saw action in the first test against State. Pretty good
jump—playing the SPE’s your last ball game, the nation’s
(then) top team your next. And that set shot is holding out
nicely, thank you. The Furman scrap attests to that. Could
have padded Jim’s thumbnail with some talk about. his ball
handling ability. He gave a dazzling exhibition Tuesday night.
Who said the little man is doomed?

We single out these four, as aforesaid, for the impression
they made in the Furman scrap. Old D. C. just hasn’t had too
many into which a coach would want to pour his soph stock.
To date, it has chiefly been a letterman’s season. But the time
is coming now, through the schedule and the sophs’ own merit,
whereby they are seeing more and more action. And when they
shake the first eagerness (Lefty, Adrian, and J. V. collected
two fouls a piece in their brief stay the other evening) they
show what they’ve got. For one man. they sure show a lot more
than we ever thoaght they had in them.

Smarting From Furman Loss, Frosh| ¢

. , of July. But the prin-] page FOUR

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SECTION

Deen Ean

TIGS £

By DICK LILES

the scare of their lives before glad-
ly leaving’ the umhospitable Presby-
terian home. In their own backyard
the Bairdmen have been nothing
short of poison to four ‘recent
Southern Conference foes, beating
2 of them soundly and coming with.
in 3 points of victory over the
heavily favored othertwo.

The first “victim” to invade the
campus was the crew from Mary-
land U. and they were fate-filled
to walk off the court vicioriously
in an overtime period in which
the last split-second gave them the
margin of victory 57-55 after trail-
ing 35-21 at the half. The Citadel’s
Bulldogs were tamed 69-49 in Char.
lotte’s slick-floored Armory last
weekend without much effort. Then
“Slim-Jim” Slaughter and his high.
riding Gamecocks presented them-
selves Monday night and were
overwhelmingly surprised to find
themselves.on the short end of a
40.35 score at half-time. Then the
tall A-A candidate went to work
and finally pulled his boys to a
slight 74-71 lead-and had to freeze
the ball for the remaining minutes
for the win and a heartbreaker for
the boys in red.

Everything looked blue until the
Purple Hurricane was quelled 78-
63 Tuesday night. The Furmanites
weren't enough for Boyd's Boys
and reserves played practically all
the second half. Individual stars
have been many in this home.
stand uprising. Dutch Hengeveld
has been phenomenal with his long
set-shots and has had two 20-point
nights in the present stand: Haller
and Brooks have shared the scor-
ing spotlight with consistantly
good scoring and excellent floor
play, Throw in the ever-improving
Proctor-Fitzgerald combo and the
wonderful play of Mac McLean
and Don Lazenby and one has the
answer to the recent spurt by the
Cats.

Clemson comes probably some-
what confident of victory after the
74.62 beating they ‘inflicted on the
Wildcats earlier this season. They
bring a 20.pointer in Sneed and
his help-mate Haugk, who pumped
in 15 against Davidson earlier.
Coach Banks McFadden, an all-
American from Clemson himself,
can never be trusted for having a

(Continued on Page Six)

The fifth team to cautiously enter the lair of Wildcats at
idson College will be the Clemson College Tigers when they
sneak into Johnston Gymnasium tonight for their second meet-
ing of the season with the ‘‘scrappy’’ Cats. Cautionusly, yes,
because the last four visiting teams have met either defeat or

a

Track's Renovation

Calls For Widening
And Cinder Coating

Plans were completed and work
slated to get underway today on
the facelifting for Richardson Field
track. .

Generally the iraprovements, to be
ready well in time for competition
this April, embrace a widening of
the track to a constant width of
21 feet all the way around and a
building up of bad areas with a
base of clay and a coating of cin-
ders.

The 100.yard  straight-away is
due to be widened four feet, run.
ning two new lanes in between the
present right bounds and the steps
to the west stadium stands. This
will mean room for six lanes of
120 yard high hurdles and 220-yard
lows, and eight—if ever needed—
lanes for the 100 and 220.

On the far or east side, consider-
able widening will be necessary
since it is presently only four lanes
wide. Whereas only four men—two
from each team—have been able
to run in the 220 lows and 220,
six—three each—will now be able
to compete. Coach Heath Whittle
added, however, that all six lanes
would not be utilized until the
construction of 20 more hurdles to
give the school a full set of 60-10
in each lane.

Whittle said that provision was
being made so that—when the
money comes in—a concrete curb.
ing can be laid down on either side
of the cinder path. He pointed out
that in addition to helping our own
track program with the advantage
of more participants in dual meets
and the ability to hold triangular
meets, Davidson could now play
host to high school invitational
meets, junior college meets, and
the like. :

The. work is the realization of

long-needed track improvements
and should considerably boost Da-
vidson’s track and field program,
both as a participant and as a sup.
porter of the sport.

J

f

yy,

? J

a

Seek To Repay Young Tigs Tonight}

By BILL MORRIS
Smarting from the 85-64 trouncing handed them by the
Furman frosh in Johnston Gymnasium Tuesday night, the Wild-
kitten hoopsters take a shot at the yearlings from Clemson
College here tonight. The young Tigers, who eked out a ‘win

over Davidson, 62-60, two weeks ago in Clemson, will have an’

even harder time on the 'Kittens' home court in the 6:15 opener.
Furman, which boasts a fresh-, rick connected with 19 tallies.

man team better than their var-
sity, had little trouble, after the
first few minutes, with Coach Ray
Brown's court men. Halftime found
the Davidson frosh struggling un.
der a 22.point deficit, 43-21.
Speedy Forward Spelvy poured
in 24 points for the Furman five,
while Teammate Center Kirkpat-

John Holt hit the top of the
scoring column for the ‘Kits with
15 markers, and was followed close.
ly by six-foot.six Center George
Melton with 14, Guard Johnny Gray
had 12 for the losers.

Tomorrow night the Wildkittens
tangle with Daslington Prep

(Continued on Page Six) .

Bob Graham
Hot Yankee Down South

‘lKing'sMountain Men
. |Addressed by Baird

Coach Boyd Baird found him-
self speaking on a subject which
he knew relatively little about last
night when he addressed the Kings
Mountain Kiwanis Club on “Tall
Men and Basketball.”

The Wildcat mentor hasn’t had
a “tall” man on either of his Da.
vidson teams to date, unless one
would tab 6-4 Bill Proctor or Joe
Dudley a high boy. Ordinarily,
Proctor and Dudley would fill the
bill, but basketball now days just
doesn’t classify as ordinary.

Said Baird: “There I was, speak.
ing and drooling at the same time!”

Sports Schedule

February 12.17
Monday — Basketball: Duke,
here; Swimming: Wm. &

Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
Thursday — Wrestling: Duke
here.
Friday — Basketball: W & L,
Lexington, Va; Swimming:
N. C. State, Here.
Saturday — Basketball: VMI
Lexington, Va.; Wrestling:
VPI, Blacksburg, Va.

$ EhicR CATS’ LAIR
Citadel Matters Here Tomorro

Wildcats Shake Home Court Jinx May Miss Citadel Match

At Favored Clemson In Loop Tilt | See

,

Bob Gay, undefeated in the 167 pound ciass and winning his
fourth match of the year ‘at North Carolina Wednesday night before
passing out, will in all probability be lost to Davidson for their
match here tomorrow with The Citadel. Gay, who weighs 185 nor-
mally, had scaled down almost twenty pounds to reach the 167
pound division. Coach Charlie Parker said that Bob is receiving a
medical checkup. If he is unable to grapple, Parker isn’t certain who

will fill the spot.

Wrestlers Hope For Two Straight
After Licking Carolina Wednesday

By CHARLIE HASSELL
With the return of two valuable missing links to the ranks
of the team, the Wildcat wrestling squad won its first match
of the season last Wednesday night, when they defeated the op-
posing U. N. C. mat men 22 to 11. Tommorow afternoon at 3 30
they take to the mat in another attempt to balance up their

losses, when they wrestle the Cita-
del here in Johnston Gymnasium.

Influenza had .Coach Charlie
Parker pinned to his bed for a
period of about two weeks, and
he was unable to accompany the
team to VMI. He had been up only
a few days when the varsity team
made their win debut at Carolina.

. The other returnee is Johnny
Kelton, the team captain. He had
‘been out since the opening con-
test with Washington and Lee,
where he was forced to forfeit be-
cause of a separated muscle. Wed-
nesday night, however, he got
back into the swing of things by
decisioning Ken Stuckey of the Ca.
rolina team by a margin of four
points. Davidson's Bob Gay, in the
167 pound class, lost his first
match of the season to Tommy
Coxe, by forfeit, when he passed
out twice during the match. Bob
had pinned two men and decisioned
the third prior to Wednesday's
match. In the 123 pound division,
Gene Craven floored Carolina’s
Schwartz after two minutes of the
third period. Gene lost only one
match in four starts. Jim Grissom
is the only other man on the team
who has won as many as three
matches this year. He nailed’ Jim
Ragsdale in the second period.
Beside Gay’s forfett, the only
losses occurred when Carolina’s
Quarls decisioned Johnny Guiton
and Bell took a 4 to 2 decision from
George Irvin. Irvin, who had been
wrestling in the 130 class prior to
the Carolina meet, was forced (by

the return of Kelton) to enter the
157 pound class. Jerry Morrow de-
cisioned U.N.C.’s Bond 8-2, and
the Wildcats got their third pin of
the night when big Bill McNeely
threw Ted McLaughlin, at 1:35 of
the third period.

Tomorrow afternoon, the wrest-
lers hope to win their second vic-
tory, from the . Citadel Bulldogs
here at Davidson. Coach Parker,
who refereed one of the Citadel’s
mafches knows just what the Bull-
dogs have. Perhaps their best man
is their Captain, Scott, who wrest-
les in the 167 class. Another good
man is Bob Sachs, at 137 pounds.
The lineup for the Citade! match
will be the same as last Wednes-

nesday’s match.

Gridders Finish
First Week's Work

The first week of winter grid
practice has come to a close, and
it leaves Coach Crowell Little with
only one comment: “It's cold and
we're working like the devil.”

Cold rainy weather forced the
Cats inside once this week. They
will work only five afternoons a
week, taking Saturdays off. Chief
work to date has consisted of block-
ing and tackling, with Little work.
ing with his frosh material to
groom it for varsity play.

BELLHOP WEEK
TAA AAA dab b heb h ded d ddd t dd ddd

FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 9, 1951

:

* * * x

eevee

TT

W

—?

OF THE

WEEK

By Dick Roper

_Nature’s long-established law of
averages seemed little more than a
farce a few nights ago in Johnston
Gymnasium. The lawbreaker, a
calm, serious-faced guy, was having
quite a lot of fun doing the well.
nigh impossible with a basketball.

When Wildcat Guard Fred
(Dutch) Hengeveld poured the first
of his beautiful set shots in the
basket ,against South Carolina last _
Monday, people oohed and ahed.
When he duplicated the feat, the
sounds of admiration were louder.
But when he kept right on doing it,
it was downright demoralizing to
the Palmetto crowd. Dutch would-
n't shoot often. But when he de.
cided to try one, he'd just stop,
give the ball a twist of the wrist,
and swish! Two pernts for the
home team. While the Gamecock

| WILDCAT

| supporters groaned, focal fans went

wild. He finished with a good 15
points that night. But his team lost
the game.

Tuesday night, Furman was the
opponent. But Dutch hadn’t cooled
off yet. He wanted to win one. So
he just maintained his composure,
kept his eye on the basket, and
scored 20 points. The Purple Hur-
ricane was little more than a mild
breeze when it left Davidson that
night.

A native Davidsonian who is
playing his fourth season of varsity .
ball, Fred is co.captain of the
Wildcat five this season. Working
with Tom Haller, the other ’Cat co-
captain, Hengeveld has been hard
to stop. While Forward Haller

| works in and out around the basket

positioning for a shot, Guard Hen.
geveld moves back and forth on
the outer court. If he has the ball
and sees an opening, he will gener.
ally shoot. If the opportunity is not
so good, he will pass off to some.
one else. Dutch doesn’t waste shots.

Adding the 21 points he scored
in the ‘Cat win over Citadel last
Saturday night to the 35 represent-
ing Monday and Tuesday night's
work, Dutch’s record now shows
a total of 210 points for eighteen
games.

The Dutchman isn’t one to neg-
lect his guard duties either. One
of the most agressive in the South-
ern Conference, his ball stealing,
rebounding, and shot-blocking
stamp. Dutch a top performer de-
fensively as well as offensively.

Son of College Registrar F. W.
Hengeveld, one of Davidson’s bas-
ketball greats in years past,
“Dutch” is closing out his college .
career this year. However, he'll
probably be remembered for some
time to Wildcat hoop opponents as
“That guy who didn’t miss ’em.”

r

w

ar ee a

Dutch Hengeveld
Baird’s Backyard Basketballer
