PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIVE ATTEND

Conferences Fill
Profs’. Holidays

During the Christmas holidays five Davidson College pro-
tessors attended meetings of learned societies in Northern cities,
two of whom had parts on programs.

cn "Daves "ot ve-Aeece| Raculty Selects
1952 Committees

ern Division of the American
Philosophical Association on De-
Standing faculty committees for
1952 have been elected and ap.

cember 27-29 at Bryn Mawr Col.
pointed by the faculty at their

lege, Pa,
Professor Charles Eberhardt at-
monthly meeting for January.
The groups are as follows:

tended the meetings of the Ameri-
can School of Oriental Research
and the Society of Biblical Litera-
ture in New York City from De.
cember 26 to December 29.

Puckett to Zoologists

Professor W. Olin Puckett went] Executive ‘
to the meetings of the American Cunningham
Society of Zoologists in Philadel- Brown, C. K.
phia, Pa., December 26.29. Bailey

Professor Frederick Morton at-
tended the meetings of the Ameri-
can Finance Association in Boston,
Mas¢., on December 26-29,

Erwin (languages)
Griffin (social sciences)
Pietenpol (natural sciences)

McCutchan
, Shared Program = Purcell
Morton too part " a en dis: Eberhardt
cussion in “Recen eve .
in Business Finance at Home and Curriculum
Abroad,” along with = Mitchell Cunningham
Bailey

Sharpe, Deputy Minister of Trade
and Commerce of Canada, the presi-
dent of the Rockland and Atlas
Bank of Boston, economists and

Watts (languages)
Johnston (social sciences)
Reid (natural sciences)

professors of finance. Griffin
_ Professor George B. Watts was Schenck
present at the meetings of the Puckett
Modern Language Association off Student Health and Physical
America and those of the Ameri-| Education
can Association of Teachers of Cunningham
French in Detroit, Mich., from De- Woods
cember 27 through December 30. Scott
As National Secretary-Treasurer Abernethy
of the latter association he took Johnston
part in all the sessions of the Execu- McGavock
tive Council, and read his annual Athletic Council
report at the business meeting on
December 30. Johnston K
THE CABBAGE PLANTER srustee and student mem
(Continued From Page Two) Baker Scholarship
the river.) Cumming
Here an Abkhasian came riding Gallent
slowly by, his head drooping Thompson
sleepily. Suddenly his small sinewy Goldiere
horse snorted and the Abkhasian Abernethy
spoke. “‘How queer the people are
here, and frightening. Is this your Scholarship
first one?” he asked. unning' am
I answered him. “The first.” Bailey
He dropped his eyes, thought Hengeveld
awhile, and said, “And how is it you Martin
know about these things?” Thompson
“Tam an inventor,” FI said, Abernethy

“I would like to have a wash,
tbo,” he said, “but this queer water
... What kind is it? It’s salt and
bitter.” (The anti-freeze has leaked
out into the river.)

“You wash yourself with it; it’s
good for you!” I said. .

“Is it?” he said.

“Sure, I said. “It's warmer than
the stream; the streams hereabouts
are like ice.”

“You know best,” he said, drink-
ing it,

“Are you really going to drive?”
he asked me.

“Look out, Mother!” I said. “I
am!” (Perhaps his mother was
washing clothes on the other bank
and did not see her son in the wa.
ter.) Meanwhile the new inhabitant
of the Russian land, a person with
an unknown future, was lying in
my arms, breathing noisily like a
solid citizen. (No water in the ra-
diator.) The sea was splashisg and
swishing, laced with white shav-
ings. (He caught his mother’s wash
in the fan belt after all.)

Once, as we halted (stalled), I

said, “How good it is, how good!

FACE TOUGHENED ...
(Continued From Page Three)

has slowed down a bit. Bill still

is high scorer with 133 points

to his credit. In the Big Five he
stands Number Six in scoring.

Coach Baird feels the loss of
T. C. Coleman from his playing
liseup. Tom has been handicapped
by having five afternoon labs which
are continually keeping him from
practice.

With good floorplay and team-
work which Davidson has displayed
several times this year, the Cats
have a great chance of upsetting
the Bulldogs. Last year the Cats
came ‘out on the best side of two
tough struggles with the Citadel.

I could go like this, 1 could go to
the end of the world, and he, my
little son, would grow, would grow
freely amidst plenty, my darling . ."””
. . The sea was booming ...
(Freudian reversion to childhood
tortures before firing squad at
Oryol. °

Turk To Head\Officials Say No ).
Sig Delt Psi [To Health Check

For Semester

Bob Turk, three-sport star from
Atlanta, was elected president of
Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic
fraternity, at a meeting yesterday.

Secretary-treasurer for the organ-
ization will be Jim Fickeisen, senior
track standout from Bluefield, W.
Va.

The body is composed of boys
who have passed a series of 13
tests of athletic skill. Tests are
passed throughout the year to mem-
bers of the fraternity or track coach
Heath Whittle, advisor.

Turk has lettered in football,
basketball, and track at Davidson,
and stands out as one of the
school’s top natural athletes. Fick-
eisen, a-multi-gifted performer on
the cinders, competes equally well
in the hurdles, high jump, or javelin.

Physicians Hear
Student-Foreman

At its final meeting of 1951, Sig-
ma Pi Sigma, physics honor society,

heard a talk from a focal asbestos
plant foreman and issued member-
ship to Lincon Jung of the Junior
Class,

The meeting was held jointly with
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary
chemistry fraternity, with a view
toward greater cooperation between
the two groups. /

A short summary of the record
made by Sigma Pi Sigma was given
by Professor Pietenpol after which
Mr. Jung was initiated.

In his illustrated talk to the
gtoup, foreman and special student
Grover Meetze used his plant’s pro-
ducts in explaining “Physics and
Chemistry in a Small Industry.”

FOR THE BEST IN
RECORDS

DAN RAMSEY RECORD
BAR

127% W. Trade — Charlotte

Deluxe Ice Cream

Mooresville Ice
Cream Company

Mooresville, N. C.

THACKER’S IRC.

PRIVATE DINING
ROOMS
for
PARTIES AND
BANQUETS
“A Good Place to Eat”

Phone 25-4900 Charlotte
221 South Tryon Street

He had no wish bur~
to be glad

N. or want bur—

when he thirsted

The Jolly Beggar

Each frosty bottle of Coke is the
answer to thirst...each frosty
bottle is a bargain, too. Robert
Burns would like that!

SOTTLED UNDER AUTHORTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA.COLA BOTTLING CO., OF CONCORD

“Cabo” le 0 reghtered iredemerk. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA Company

College officials have decided not to ask county health
men to investigate a minor rash of what appeared to be food
poisonings among fraternity men here this week. Dr. J. B. Woods
explained that (1) all traceable food had been disposed of and
(2) all recorded cases are under control.

“No individual boarding house
should be blamed entirely,” stated | were KA’s.
the college physician noting that The managers were allowed
the patients were from several eat- until Spring to install the fea-
ing quarters around town. \ tures suggested because of the

Between Monday and Wednesday necessary financial situation
some 19 students reported symp- acising.

tom of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, ws :
. Remember that a similar poison-

weakness and fever. . te ae
ing situation arose last year, Dr.

Dr. Woods said that the . Wad
Woods promised that if it should
trouble could be traced either occur again, health officials would

to a virus that is currently pre- be called to i :
to investigate. There are
valent in Charlotte or to food no facilities here for conducting

poisoning. He noted that the such an investigation,

simultaneity of the cases point-
ed to the latter.
An inspection was made of the GIVE T0 THE

C. Delegation
Largest at SVM

Eighteen Davidson students
formed the largest individual dele.
gation from any institution at the
Student Volunteer Movement
Quadrennial Conference held at the
University of Kansas during the
Christmas holidays.

Accompanied by Chaplain and
Mrs. Alan Gripe, the Davidson men
joined some 2,500 other consecrated
Christian young students, including
200 foreign youths from 45 coun.
tries, at the conference.

Mission Leaders

The group was addressed by such
outstanding leaders in the field of
Missions as Rev. Charles Ranson,
secretary of the International Mis-
sionary Council; Rev, Tracey Jones,
Jr., and Dr. Frank Laubach, pio-
neer missionary educator. Another
outstanding speaker was Dr. John
R. Mott, founder of the 65-year old
student movement.

Main purpose of the meeting was
to shed light on problems in world
social conditions and on the world
mission field.

kitchen of the KA-Kappa Sig

boarding house and conditions there

were found to almost meet the

sanitary suggestions made to board-

ing house managers by the college

last fall. Fifteen of the sick men

POINTS DEBATED... (Continued From Page Two)
the Southern Presbyterian Church does not have the final truth in re-
ligious matters. Second, that the loyalty of any educational institution,
and especially a Christian educational institution, should be first to
Truth, and not to a particular creed that is held by a very small! per.
centage of the world’s population. Third, that truth is best reached by
examining all the evidence possible, by weighing this evidence in the light
of honest reason, and through comprehensive, independent solution of
the paradoxes and problems that present themselves.

There is a world of difference between “teaching” issues and
ideas, and “presenting” them. Evidently this distinction has been lost
by the present administration, for there are no courses in Compara-
tive Religion (except a semester course in the philosophy depart.
ment), Comparative Economics, etc. Communism guides the destinies
of one-third of the world’s population today, and except for various
philosophy courses, we have yet to hear it intelligently discussed
in the classroom.

We receive only one side of a multi-faceted picture. Man’s mind
is a gift from God. To inhibit its use is to make a mockery of it.

What is the ostensible purpose of an academic oath at a school such
as Davidson? We can agree that its ostensible purpose is to make possible
the finding of religious truth by the student, or, more accurately, to
protect him from religious untruth. The preceding sentence is a fancy
way of saying that an academic oath is a means of palming off in the
student, to the exclusion of sther religious thought, the opinion of a
small group of men.

Are the opinions of any men sacrosanct? What is a man? Is he
not a transitory creature possessed of a reasoning mind and a spirit that
we think is part of God? Men's concepts of God are varying, but not
irreligious because of their variations. Any man who honestly seeks
God cannot be said to be irreligious. Any group that requires an oath

SBaITS

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1952

ROTC DEFERMENTS ...
(Contived From Page One)
sign the new agreement or be
dropped from the deferment
list. The juniors also must

sign or be dropped.

The sophomores may remain de-
ferced until June and then sign,
upon being accepted into the ad.
vanced course. As the school re-
quires two years of ROTC the
sophomores >re not readily affected.

Freshmen are not attected by
the old agreement and must
accept the new one.

There have been no basic
changes in the two agreements ex-
cept in the length of time of re.
serve status. The old agreement
specified a period of five years, and
the new one requires a period of
eight years,

Patronize The

Davidsonian Advertisers!

NEW CARS

DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF

Dial 3-4513

212 W. Forth Charlotte

that forces on them a.concept of God not their own is guilty of conceit.
Any men who, by exacting a professorial oath, limit the opportunities

of professors and students to seek God are guilty of delaying the coming [

of the Kingdom of God.

The requiring of an oath at Davidson seems a tacit admission
that Presbyterian thought cannot stand the rigid test of comparison.
If the thought of.the Church is true, it will win without an oath to
protect it. If it is not true, should not the Church be the first to
discard it and seek something that is true? .

What would the Christ think of the academic oath? Would he be

AUTHOR'S FAMILY...
(Continued From Page One)

of the college which is still used

and the Davidson library has the

most extensive collection in exist-

ence on the mysterious French

school teacher. —

DAVIDSON
THEATRE

Shows Start at 3 p.m.

MON.-TUE., JAN. 14-15
HOWARD HUGHES proce
ROBERT MITCHUM.

JON RUSSEL tsi F
&
15 KIND ,-

A of WOMAN.

THRILLERS
SINCE

pleased to see His religion, which he so evidently considered a dynamic,
vital, expanding faith, afraid of comparison? Would he be pleased to
see his concept of God solidified on paper, restricted to a few words?
Might he not consider this the equivalent of carving God in stone or
wood? These are things worth considering.

The life of man should be the constant, energetic seeking of a God
that is infinite. An academic oath makes the Christian religion seem
cowardly and incapable of holding its own in today's world.

Is not such an oath an attempt by man to tell God what God
can be? It is an attempt to restrict the living God, and as such must
be condemned. ; .

A point that is often brought ovt by supporters of the oath is that
since this is a Presbyterian schoo! the Church has the right to require
any oath that it sees fit. There is another distinction that we would
make at this point, ie., that right and freedom are different, and must be
distinguished in this argument. Davidson College has the freedom to
require any oath that it sees fit, but it does not necessarily have the
right. We speak here of moral right, and we think that everyone would

_ FRIDAY, JAN. 18

Paramount presents

storing
REAGAN- FLEMING
(Cre Tecnmtcoior ]

SATURDAY, JAN. 19
TYRONE POWER

agree with us that no one has the right to do something that is perhaps
wrong. It is our freedom to be inconsistent with a free search for Truth,

but it is not our right.

CH ESTERFIELD
ER ae oe,

JESSE JAMES
| TECHNICOLOR |

WR FONGA
RAMUOLENM

“Eemcet nr Kb ics

COT UBITAM UCM +

‘MILDNESS

~ Oc 4 -"

NO UNPLEASANT
AFTER-TASTE'

From the Report of o Well-Known Research Organization

and only Chesterfield has it!

