PAGE TWO \

THE DA VIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

Frank Hanshaw

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BUSINESS MANAGER ....--.---......---------- Jack Hobson
Associate Editors -.----..--.. Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope,

Ottley, Myers
Managing Editors .....---.----.-- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor -..-....--.-..-...--------~------- Dick Roper

Feature Editor—T. A. Williams

News Editor—D. M. Smith
Assignments—Strand.

Arts Editor—Mahy

Simons

Photographer ..-.----..----..-..---------+-------2-----
Assistant Business Manager -~--.-.-.-.----------------- Poston
Advertising Manager ..------------------~--------+-+--- Hasty
Circulation Manager ----------..--------..----------- Wilkins
Subscription Manager -...-.--------------------------- Chaney

Minter

wom mene nna eee ween seen eveesasrecsorss

Collection Manager

Entered as second class matter at the ost Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Chaplain’s Resignation

Since there have been requests for some clarification of the
news article printed last week announcing the recent resigna-
tion of our chaplain, Alan G. Gripe, we wish to comply and
give brief explanation, less ambiguous we hope. than last week's

article.

Mr. Gripe has been with us here at Davidson for only a
short while—one school year. He has performed very well the
tasks and duties as chaplain and his resignation came quite un-
expectedly. It was received by the Board of Directors of the
YMCA and it was with regret that his resignation was accepted
by that board. .

It is with regret also that we learned of Mr. Gripe's resigna-
tion and that the article in Jast week's edition of the Davidsonian
was felt by some to be ambiguous and perhaps poorly stated.
We all join in extending to Mr. Gripe our kind personal regards
and every good wish for his success in any position he might
decide to accept in the forthcoming year.

I am at the end of my tether.
—K. Tyler,

looking back over the ycar so
quickly drawing to a close, it seems
only fit that there be some sort of
“summing up,” in the manner of
one S. Maugham, in order to gather
the loose ends, so to speak. Re-
calling. therefore; the beginnings of
all. this business, what. in the first
column, did I say I'd do? Or, to
change the subject, what did T do?
Furthermore, what happened? With
the answers to these questions be-
fore me, there is but one thing Jeft
to do: write a few words of advice
to the man who is to replace me.

The next man who plants stuff
in this space. be it cabbages or
seeds of rebellion. will find ample
response to his efforts. 1 have
chosen at random one or two notes
among the many that have come
my way during the year. I couldn't,
out of modesty, quote all of them,
but there were some, typical of
them all, that were pretty moving.

The brief discussion earlier in the year of the professorial Among on - tings ee aad:
oath carries implications deeper than implied by that quick glance |“Waste of space”. . . “Ugh.”
—implications which we should not let pass unnoticed. I did not feel that these com-

ments were all deserved; they show,
however, a surprising lack of re-
search. My neophyte replacement
will find that not many people will
take the trouble to find out just
how much Quo Vadis paid me to
write for The Davidsonian Read-
ing mail from Quo Vadis’s editors
has given me some of my happiest
moments. For instance, this sen-
tence was on the note they in-
closed with the last check: “Your
. columns, every week. in the
. -. Davidsonian, have increased

The Challenge Of 1951-1952
Is Progress In 1952-1953

This semester and the year 1951-'52 are rapidly passing
away. but not without leaving behind. their mark upon David-
son. Though perspective always tends to smooth over the rough
places and hide the faults, we can justifiably claim this year as a
progressive one.

Yet progress always bring with it the pangs of birth and |
teadjustment. A forward march means stepping on unfamiliar
ground, and meeting unforeseeable obstacles.

After the seed was planted by Quo Vadis in its short but
turbulent career we saw the institution of a new election system.
We agitated for more holidays—with appreciable success. We
have changed our Constitution, debated the lack of academic
freedom, and looked seriously at: the honor system.

This is an admirable record, but we now find ourselves in
the middle of the steeam. It will be left to next year to take the
steps necessary to complete the crossing.

Our Constitution has become outdated, contradictory, and
incomplete. Revision will be essential.

We have had many promises from candidates who ran in
the recent elections. Will these promises materialize?

These are problems we have inherited with progress. We
must now look forward to their solution and not forget our
efforts this year. This is the challenge presented by 1951-1952.
May 1952-1953 not let ic go unheeded!—G.A.B.

Real Spirit Behind Student Union|

Benefits Both Students,-Faculty

As the new Student Union which all Davidson, has been
watching with the greatest of anticipation, finally shows signs
of near completion, we would like to give a brief word of the
seal significance of a student union and what shall be in¢orporated
in our new Student Union.

A student union centers all activities on the campus other
than departmental and classroom activities into one central loca-
tion; to further educational objectives by purposeful leisure-
time activities: social, cultural and recreational activities.

To mention bit a few purposes of our new student union:
It will improve the student's morale through meaningful pro-
grams; it will produce interesting weekend programs which will
make it unnecessary to leave the campus for weekend recreation:
it will bring the student and faculty into a closer relationship
outside the classroom, and our new student union will more
productively utilize the student's free time.

Our student union will have a main lounge where all can
gather in their leisure time—faculty and students. There will be
a moderate-sized auditorium which can be used as an auditorium,
a small ball room for dances which can be set up in cabaret style
which the fraternities seem to favor, a banquet room, a room for
lectures, a room for any activities which require the use of a stage.

There will be many rooms for campus organizations to
use for offices.and conferences. The offices of the YMCA will
be housed in the new union as well as offices for the student
government. There will be a television room, a dark room for
‘photography, 2 crafts shop, as well as ample space for other
varied activities.

The cafeteria and snack bar as well as the student store

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:
Harvest Time, Long Awaited,
Finds Cabbage Patch Bare

T. ALDEN WILLIAMS
circulation by 60% ... Awful...
Terrible... Ugh ., . Keep it
up.”

There will be lasting rewards for
my successor. One of these will be
the litele bit of sunshine that the
column may possibly have brought
into a drab little corner of some-
one’s lonely life. It is heartwarm-
ing to feel that perhaps someone,
somewhere, has remembered, and
treasured in his heart some _ in-
significant phrase or paragraph that
passed unnoticed in more callous
circles. Probably most of us have
forgotten Susan Reed, who was
with us for a concert last fall.
Nevertheless, just a week ago I was
in the post office checking the box
next to mine (it always has mail in
it) when an elderly lady came up
to me and tapped me gently on
the shoulder., Out from behind her
black shawl she asked my name
in a quivery voice, Having found
it out, she ripped off the shawl,
screamed, “Well, J like ballad
singers |"" and poked me in the nose.

Any column must be representa-

‘| tive. I have tried to put something

or other sometime or other in the
Cabbage Planter that would appeal
to someone or other. Consequently,
I've discussed magazines that no-
body reads, concerts that nobody
attends, speeches that nobody lis-
tens to, customs that nobody fol-
low and matters that nobody cares
about. Herein lies a real opportu-
nity for an ambitious person to
make his column, like the Cabbage
Planter, unequalled for absolute
uselessness. There will be, of
course, the psual war cries from
the wounded prides of professors
who claim this distinction and can

Local “Glamorous Ones”

Chide Friendly Philosopher

Dear Mr. Daniel:

As to your “disjointed babblings”’
in the Friendly (>) Philosopher's
column of the May 9th Davidso-
nian, we would like to say that we
“local hags” often wonder if the
‘Davidson student ever stops to
think of the fact that this is our
tome town, be it good or bad;
and that we cannot very well go
into hibernation when the students
arrive in the Fall, and come out
when they leave in the Spring.

If some Davidson alumnus would
return to his Alma Mater and
establish a “Female Tea Room,”

there would be no occasion for us,

“hags” to run into you Stalwart

Heroes of 1952 at the local M&M.
Since we realize, evidently more
than college students do, the
necessity for improving our minds,
we are occasionally found inside
the library making use of its fa-
cilities, rather than on the steps
discussing life’s inanfties. But, in
the words of a real philosopher:
“There is no dispute about taste.”
By this letter we hope to deflate
the egos of those students who
think they can “select in Septem-
ber, and discard at their conven-
ience.”
TWO GLAMOROUS ONES.
PS. Time to Jeave, boys.

will be housed on the ground floor of the building and will open
out onto a terrace on the south side of the building which will
accommodate any overflow of students. The building will be
guite modernistic and equipped with most modern equipment.

The director of our new student union, although his name
has not been released, is known to be a man with great ability
for such a position, rather well known public entertainer in his
own right.

It is hoped that the building will be completed by nexe fall

when classes are resumed and that our Student Union can be
dedicated at homecoming.—J.L.H.

see not any other subject than their
own.

He who next takes up the
columnist’s pen had better hope
fervently that Don Mahy will again
occupy the space above him. In
all seriousness, without Don's top-
flight art work, the Cabbage Plan-
ter would not have had either of
its readers this year. Don’s car-
toons have been continual sources
of hilarity by their pertinence and
subtlety of expression. Moreover,
both of this column’s readers were
lured into reading it when ‘they
thought the Cabbage Planter was a
caption for Don’s. cartoon. Once
they had started, of course, they
couldn't lay it down, reading on
to see where it began.

As_ with all columnists worth
their salt, you will have to make
predictions. Moreover, painful as it
may be, you will have to keep a
record of their accuracy. I made
only two; unfortunately “I missed
the mark on both of them. The first
was that I'd run out of material in
November, and second, that I'd Jose
whatever readers there were,. in
December. This seemed logical,
even realistic, But even more. pain-
ful than having them turn aut
wrong is the way in which they
proved faulty. I lost the readers
in November, and didn’t run out of
material until December,

With these vistas shining bright
for -you, courageous young scrib-
bler, set ont for the horizon. |
salute you, Bit choose a grassy
plot to walk on. While you're so
ambitiously lifting yourself by your
bootstraps, like the rest of us, you
might trip, and it will be nice to
have,a soft place to fall.

THE FRIENDLY PHILOSOPHER:

FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1952

[Davidson Scene In Retrospect

The Immediate Tomorrow

The approaching end of school
and the finality of this issue of The
Davidsonian teave no recourse but
to examine briefly the past year:
its successes, its failures, and its
challenge to the future. This is Da-
vidson in retrospect; 1951-'52, This
is the immediate heritage of to-
mororw: Davidson, °52-"53,

More than ever before during the
past year, the Davidson student
openly and intelligently questioned
the inadequacies, the inconsisten-
cies and the absurdities of the
status quo. A few over-eager critics
(who ME?) forgot that criticism
should be positive and constructive;
a means rather than an end. While
they were gnashing their teeth,
more conscientious students were
initiating corrective action. Ags a
result we got a longer lunch hour,
more vacation time, better chapel
Programs, some needed changes in
the elections system, and somewhat
better harmony between students

Jand faculty. These were steps in

the right direction; they serve best
to point out the great task which
lies ahead.

The work of carrying on that
task will depend in no small
measure on the clear thinking
and effective action on the part
of next year's Student Body.
We must not let ourselves sit
back and esy, ‘The job is

By NAT DANIEL
finished.” The job is never
teally finished. If Davidson is
to make real progress, she must
more than match changes for
the bettdr in present-day
society. Let’e take a look at
some of the things which might
be undertaken next year:

1. The question of voluntary Y
membership was left hanging in
mid-air. We, the members of the
Y, should renew our examination
of the problem, draw definite con-
clusions one way or the other, and
make a public statement of our pol-
icy.

2 The elections system still
bogs down in spots. The business
of running three separate elections
at the same place and at the same
time is very inefficient. We could
examine the possibility of precinct
voting, improve the speech-making
set-up, and permit open campaign-
ing for the office of head cheer-
leader.

3. We should make a care-
ful and critical analysie of the
Honor System to sce if there
aren't some weaknesses, both
in the aystem, and among the
users of the system, which
should be remedied.

4. The Student-Faculty Commit-
tee should be re-organized, in

together formally to discuss and
attempt to solve mutual problents.
The list could go on for Pages.
If the students of Davidson Col-
lege go back to sleep next year, it
will become even longer The chal-
lenge is ours collectively, but for it
to be accepted, we must respond
to it as individuals. Only you can
decide what your answer will be,
but it will play a large part in de-
termining the success of Davidson
tomorrow.
on
We could not conscientious-
ly close out the year withoyt
a word of farewell to the
seniors. They are leaving the
shadows of the cathedral spire
and the chambermaids to step
into a world of strife and ten-
sion. Davidson has not com-
pletely prepared him to face
that world; only time, further
growth, and experience can
achieve that. It is hoped that
she has given him certain val-
uable principles of thought and
action which will guide them
in the momentous task of mak-
ing the world a better place
in which to live; fundamental
intangibles which they will
cherish forever.
eo 2

Nat Daniel says: “Don't sigh with.

order that these groups: may meet | relief: [I shall return.”

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

Recent Election Speeches Called
A Mere Test Of Speaking Ability

Dear Frank:

This letter is written from the
point of view of one who has ob-
served the student body elections as
a reporter for the Davidsonian in
covering the elections as an assign-
nient, and one who, because of this,
has attempted to remain aloof from
the politics and clash of personali-
ties in the voting. The ideas I am
presenting are not recommendations
in the strict sense of the word but
may be used by anyone who would
desire a copy-right on them as they
are neither wholy original nor en-
tirely mine, but rather an anthology.
of criticisms and interested obser-
vations by a wide variety of stu-
dents and faculty members. This,
in a word, is a summary of opinions.

The elections this year as they
draw to a close have seen several
innovations in the system as we
knew It before and have run the
course of all good elections—of-
ficers have been selected.

From the presidency of the stu-
dent body to the frosh representa-
tive on the council, there have been
taces that were both hotly con-
tested and have taken a long time
to complete. The fact that the
elections have taken so long has
caused some amount of disinterest
among the students, but by and
large the genoral feeling has been
one of responsiveness and responsi-
bility,

The speeches which were begun
through the adoption of the amend-
ments to the student body govern-
ment constitution, have been gen-

Truman’s Letter Honors Rusk
At Recent Alumni Banquet

Dean Rusk, graduate of the class
of 1931, was honored at the an-
nual meeting of the Washington
Alumni held in the Army-Navy
Club, Dean Rusk is one of the most
illustrious members of the David-
son alumni, and in a letter to Dr.
Cunningham written by President
Harry Truman, the President paid
tribute to Dean Rusk saying, “his
counsel and service were particular-
ly outstanding during the difficult
years he served as Assistant Sec-
retary of State. He has consistently
served his country with devotion
and great ability ,:.”

Very high honor was paid Dean
Rusk in the President's comment
that “Dean Rusk is the best kind
of American,” A citation was pre-
sented Mr. Rusk at this meeting
in Washington with an inscription:

Davidson College Trustess,

Faculty and Alamn{ unite in

Honoring Dean Rusk, ’31, Edu-

chtor, Statesman and Humani-

tarian, For Eminent Service to

Our Nation and World Peace

May ‘9, 1952,

Dean Rusk is to serve as the new
President of the Rockefeller Foun-
dation, a position of world-wide re-
sponsibility,

Genera] Brooke Allen, graduate

of the class of 1933, was also hon-
ored at this meeting. General Al-
len is chief of the photographic
service for the Air Forces. Among
those attending were Col. James
F. Pinkney of the Alr Force Tech-
nical Division, and Dr, H. E,
Fulgher, professor of physles at Da-
vidson, who is on leave with the
Navy.

PHI-EU SOCIETIES;

Lits Elect Men

The Philanthrople Literary So-
ciety elected officers for the 1952-
1953 session at Its last meeting.
The new office holders are: Mac
Bulgin, president; Alden Williams,
vice president; Malcolm William-
son, secretary; Don Mahy, treas-
urer; Tom Abel and Jim Speed
critics. Ronnie Wilson and Dyn-
bar Ogden were elected super-
visors,

Newly elected officere of the
Eumanean Society are: Bob Watk-
er, president; Buddy Lamon, vice
president; Robert Jones, secretary,
and Sam Hope, treasurer.

erally well-received by the students.
The main objections to the
speeches are that those who
don’t know a man well, especially
the freshmen, are unduly influ-
enced by a good speech, and the
man who is not such a good speak-
er might not be elecied even though
he be better qualified for the job
and because of a talk that did not
exhibit an overly attractive talent
for making a good public appear-
ance, he would not be elected, This
point is being discussed particularly
as it touches on the editorships
of the publications.

A possible solution that has been
advanced is that the use of a second
person who would act not as a
campaign manager, as we stil] want
no campaigns, but who would serve
as speaker for the person who is
nominated, This, too, has its draw-
backs, the main one being that it
borders too closely on sheer poli-
tics, but the other suggestions that
has been discussed, namely that of
lowering the number of students so
that the speeches would be unneces-
sary, seems even further out of the
question when the amount of a tui-
tion raise that would be required
with such a change, is considered.

The question of having or not
having speeches hes been the focal
point of the questioning on the run-
ning of the elections for this year
and so deserves the deepest and
most conscientious study by those
who might appraise its worth or
lack of value,

Not signing

the ballots has

proved a minor change and was one
that would have seemed superfluous
among a group of supposedly ma-
ture young men. As long as there
is the possibility of clique forming,
and this will be a constant uncer-
tainty as long as we have fraterni-
ties, there will remain no way of
ever checking up on this corrupt
method of ram-rodding a candidate
into an office. The original reason
for signing the ballots, that of in-
suring that there was no stuffing
of the ballot box, has been stopped
by giving ballots out by rows and
if continued, this will tend to retain
the purposes of the first method.
T saw in an election, earlier in the
year, centain students who did stuff
the ballot box by picking up all the
unused ballots that were left in the
hymnal racks and. signing the
names of those men whom they'd
noted weren't in chapel or who re-
frained from voting. This is impos-
sible under the present set-up and
whoever it was who had the idea
for beginning the procedure that
was used this year is to be com-
mended,

In closing, I may only say that —
the actions in and out of the elec-
tions on the part of both those
voting and those being voted on
has been in keeping with the Da-
vidson traditions of democracy and
of rewarding those who deserve
honor by electing men, who have
the capabilities of leading the stu-
dent body and the college in the
year 1952-’53 to one of the best ever.

JIM MOORE,

CAT POLL

By DEAN GOODSELL
What do you think of combining rash week and orientation

week? ’
PRO CON
Preshmen .......... woe 486% Preshmen ............. $1.4%
Upperclasemen _.----..-1 $2.0% Upperclassmen -....... 48.0%
TOTAL ......-.....-. 50.5% TOTAL ......--.20.28 49.5%
172 total number polled. (74 freshmen, 98 upperclassmen)
COMMENTS

We need more time ag it in— R. M. Stevenson.
eeete
It would be financially extravagant for the students and unfair
to those that would lke to understand the position of remaining
independent.—George Knight.
eevee.
You need a few weeks to get adjusted and acquainted,
ymous,
oe eee.

Rush Week should be at the beginning of second semester.
“The Planking” Dutchman.
ees ev @ @

25% asked: “What about second semester rushing?”

The unfortunate interruption of studies, a grievance of both
faculty and students, would be avoided, and, inasmuch as orientation
itself takes up comparatively little time, the freshmen would be able
to attend rush parties without hindrance—=Jim Allen.

‘ of e@ 8 &

Having rush week begin a few days before classes commence
would be an ideal way to keep it from provoking comment from the
profs and would be more in line with those schools which do their
rushing during the first semester. Of course, as the poll shows,
it is something ditferent and this combined with the traditional
jaziness of students here will make i
of Davideon. Jobe Otten t impossible if left up to the boys

