PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF .................:::ccccccceees BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ..}.............--:.0:0055 ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors .......-..-.-. Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray

Managing Editors ....-.--.. Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley
Photographs—Archie Neal
Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson

Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager ......-...---------- Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager -.----.----.-.-----------.--- Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager -...-....---------------------- Bob Poston
Collection Manager -.....---....-------.-2-----e eee Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager ....-........---..------- Preston Chaney

iD
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Poll Points Dissatisfaction
With Present Athletic Policy

In the typical spirit of the Davidson mind, The Davidsonian's
brief football questionnaire was received with sarcasm, wise
cracks, and a few intelligent replies in chapel this week. And,
typically Davidson, only about half of the student body even
bothered to indicate their feelings on a matter which they will
debate at length at the slightest bull session provocation.

At any rate, The Davidsonian feels that the questionnaire
proved the student belief of its editorial expression last week—
there is no middle road in athletics, Davidson offered as an ex-
ample of the middle of the road policy. Only 16% of those
voting (498) voted for continuation of our present policy, and
better than half of that number were freshmen——obviously un-
touched as yet by the stigma of continued defeat.

A 50% poll of the student body cannot be called con-
clusive. But the discontent with our present policy was easily
seen—and the comments penned on the ballots attested to that.

The dissatisfaction, then, sets the need for an investigation
into which future course we tend to pursue. The program of
increased subsidizations—with its over-emphasis on athletics
(football, in our particular case), pressures on coaches and
players, and the win at all costs idea—is one road. The other
is the “return to normalcy” in athletics—intercollegiate teams as
composed of the best in their sport at an institution.

An Associated Press story this week reported football de-
emphasis as the major athletic trend of the year. The talk trend,
however, more than action. A school of Davidson's calibre,
long known and respected for its athletic code, logically should
take the lead. As long as we are in the middle of the road, not
only are we gaining nothing, but we are condoning to an extent
the practices of full scale subsidization.

Beginning with the issue after exams, The Davidsonian
will publish the facts on athletic subsidization—at Davidson,
and as it has affected other schools throughout the country. The
faculty, administration, trustees and alumni, have been heard
from. It is time the student body really gave this thing some
thought and voiced its decision.

Contemplators of Withdrawal
Would Do Well To Stay Put

The rumor of mass withdrawal at the semester's end
brought to mind a similar trend a year ago when the air corps
bug bit the nation’s campuses. But this year there is, on the
surface, no apparent reason for such talk.

While there has been a flurty of talk on the ROTC front
concerning deferments, and the call of the senior class, there has
been no serious military concern expressed through the student
body lately. Yet talk of the withdrawal persists.

The rumor originators even have the figure—127—well
fixed in the mind of every rumor recipient.

Obviously concerned over such talk, Registrar F. W. Henge-
veld and Dean John C. Bailey express complete ignorance as to
where it all began. And lest some students come to feel that it is
a trend or, worse, a reality, we spike the tale with this bit of
advice:

Remember what happened last year? Many a young man
who could have still been in school is now with Uncle Sam’s
Air Force, not for two years, but four. The draft last summer
was lighter than expected. The draft classification tests proved
(oddly enough) valid. Which seems to point to the fact that
these troubled days of confused young minds are times for
watchful waiting. Trying to jump the gun on one’s future—
particularly when it would take him away from an education is
apt to only enhance the confusion in the future, rather than
alleviate it.

In short, you're as well off right now as you can hope to be.
Your deferred status is one for your education. Take advantage
of it while it is yours. Your Uncle Sugar will get you soon
enough.

You Can Be The Grand Marshal
For Someone In March of Dimes

Ever watched the faces of a young father and mother as
they see their polio-handicapped child stand on the side and
watch the other kids at play?

It’s a scene that'll give you a deep heartache, and one which
is repeated daily throughout our land. The only way to wipe
it out is to Jick its cause—polio. The only way to lick polio is
through constant work and research. And one way to finance
this research is through the March of Dimes campaign.

The campaign is running, this year, from January 7.31.
Think about it; you'll give.

EATAUSTIC ApprontH :

“oo* IF IT COMES,IT COMES.

PROF, 109 DESPERATE (SO8)+- tle SHINE YOUR |
FAS SHOES » WASH YouR S08) ANYTHING."

SOME FINE HINTS TO FRESHMEN ON HOW TO PREPARE FOR EXAMS
REALISTIC APPROACH :

3 S++ PLEASE

NOON SARLT APPROACH WONDER iF THE
LAE

DAY (n5S) WiLL TURN ME tw.”?

x LySstn Poor:
© Pass Jonny
Smith on Exam
eat

| wy
You / (Stqnes) Fen

A Freinp

“AMAYGE 1 COUD GAIBE THe PaOF.”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Charlotte Traffic Halved; Exam.
Week Solves Highway Problem

“Tt is far safer to know too
little than too much. People
will condemn the one, though
they will resent being called
upon to exert themselves to fol-
low the other.”—S. Butler.

Examinations, time - honored,
time-worn, time and automatic, will
be here next week. Don’t laugh this
off as another Davidson rumor, and
don’t sleep late next week just
because there aren’t any classes,
because “he who laughs last, is last
dressed,” or something like that.
Moreover The Davidsonian has it
from reliable sources in the dean’s
office that there will be no change
in the procedure this year, and so
offers this orientation course for
freshmen, transfers and new profes-
sors.

First, a few historical facts. The
word itself, “examination,” comes
from the ancient Greek meaning
hemlock. It is a well-known fact of
history that Socrates’ wife said to
the wise old philosopher: “Sock,”
said she, “take a little examination
for thy stomach’s sake,” and then
slipped him a mickey. In Roman
timés we find each of Caesar's of.
ficer reserve candidates being given
an “examinationus,” meaning the
spear, or in the vulgate, the shaft.

During the French Revolution,
whereas everyone from 0 to 17, and

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

23 to 20 was killed on the guillo-
tine, - Robespierre, who couldn’t
read or write, administered what
he called an “examinere” to all col-
lege age aristocrats, accomplishing
the guillotine’s purpose much more
slowly and horribly.

When the Puritans first landed on
Plymouth Rock, they were seeking
religious and educational tolerance
and consequently dispatched every-
body who didn’t agree with them
in order to find it. All dissenters
(early form of student) were de-
clared witches and were given an
“examme,” involving, among other
things, being burnt at the stake
and/or drowned.

An examination is a five-hour ex.
ercise in one subject covering next
semester's work in another subject.
They are given in batteries of six,
stretching out over the first four
days of exam period, with the
hardest ones on Monday and Tues-
day of the first week.

Examinations are to be written in
ink or pencil; whichever one you
bring, the other will be required.
Exam pads are available in the Stu.
dent Store, and seem at first glance
to be 8% x 11 inches, but are
actually 8% x 36, to fool the unwary
student into writing more. The
average student will not need more
than one during his four years.

As far as studying for exams is

concerned, this is frowned upon, but
is considered part of the growing
process for a freshman. The library
is admittedly too distracting, leav-
ing only Hugo's, Hatley’s, i.e.,
M. and M.'s and the flick.

Hugo’s may be the quietest,
since he has stopped cashing bad
checks with the resulting loss of

business. There is plenty of refer-

ence material available and benze-
drine in the coffee to keep you
awake. Among the distractions are
the faculty playing the juke box
too loud and Bill Brooks’ hook
shots: into the booth behind you.
Hatley’s Hippodrome, having
changed ownership and now called
M and M’s, short for Munch and
Mingle, is not yet listed in Dun
and Bradstreet’s. They charge oply
a nickel for coffee, though, so they
can’t be making more than two or
three hundred per cent profit on
this commodity and can hardly be
called solvent. Since, however, the
coffee is a thickel and the conversa-
tion less, this is undoubtedly the
least expensive study spa in town.
The wise student, if he has the
means, will center his concentrated
effort on the flick. Since the only
first run picture that comes to Da-
vidson will be showing during ex-
am week, then he will take that ad-
vantage to stock up on cinema fare
(Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:

WADE STATES FACTS ON ATHLETICS;
DOES NOT WANT DE-EMPHASIS

Dear sirs:

In answer to some of your recent
editorials on the athletic policy
here at Davidson I would like to
present some opinions on my be-
half and on behalf of some others
that I have talked With. I realize
these views might be considered
out-dated and out of line with the
concensus of opinion around the
campus, but I have some definite
views and I'd like to present them
now.

There has been much talk about
de.emphasis here at Davidson
What I want to know is what are
we going to de-emp? I can see no
real emphasis program around here
now and no possibility of one in the
near future. I would like to give
some facts to back up this state-
ment: The total number of athletic
scholarships for ALL sports at
present time is 55. If all these were
football scholarships, which they
aren’t there would be an average of
less than 15 per year; a phenomen.
ally low figure for a college foot-
ball team. ALSO, the average
amount for each scholarship is ap-
proximately two-thirds of what it
costs a student to go to school at
Davidson for one year. That is,
assuming the bare needs of a col-
lege student for one year is $1,000,
each scholarship has an average
worth of about $700. Also, contrary
Yo the opinion of a lot of people,

athletics doesn’t take the spotlight
financially on the campus, which is
as it should be. There is $7,000 more
appropriated for academic scholar-
ships than those for athletic
scholarships. I merely point this out
to you, Mr. Editor, because your
main objection to emphasizing
seems to be to the effect that ath.
letes should receive scholarships
when others, such as journalists,
ete, don’t.

Another question that has arisen
is this. Is the Wildcat Club an
evil influence to Davidson's ideals?
Is it a menace? Is it bringing us
into big business? These questions
I will answer with a flat ‘no.” The
Wildcat Club is an endowment just
as is any other fund. It brings boys
to Davidson who .would not ordi-
narily come here were it not for
the club, and who, after coming
here have distinguished themselves
both in leadership and scholarship.
Again let me give facts: In the past
10 years 92% per cent of letter win-
ners in all sports at Davidson have
graduated from Davidson, In foot.
ball, which seems to be the sore
spot of all the talk, 94% of letter
winners have graduated.

I think it goes without saying
that a large number of athletes are
leaders on the campus; boys like
Bull Freeman, Kirk Oglesby, Bill
Brooks, Jerry Kiser, and others;
and the majority of these boys

would not be here were it not
for the help they receive.

Now comes the main question.
What course should Davidson fol-
low in the future? Should we em-
phasize, de.emphasize, or stay in
the middle of the road as we are
now. I say stay as we are now.
In the past several years subsidiza-
tion has spiralled upward and up-
ward in colleges throughout’ the
country. I believe this hyper-in-
flated subsidized bubble will burst
in the near future and college foot-
ball will come back down to our
level. If we de-emphasize more than
we ate now we will be below the
pre-subsidization level and we will
be out of our present class and
definitely in the smaller college
football class. The days of playing
State, Army, and Ga. Tech will be
gone forever, and we will have lost
every bit of recognition we have
ever gained. Therefore I think we
should bide our time and let foot-
ball come back to us; but let's not
run from it.

I firmly believe that to retreat
one inch, to let up for one year,
will be death to everything David-
son has stood for and that even
though we do play and beat smaller
tearus, the feeling and exhultation of
beating State and racking some
other big school will be gone for.

ever
—HAM WADE.

NAT DANIEL:

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1952

Intellectual Laziness: The
Enemy of Davidson Education

The Davidson student is, for the
most ‘part ,intellectually lazy. All
around him important events are
taking place—~in the world, in
Washington, in Raleigh, and even
right here on the campus, but he
has withdrawn into his little shell
of pseudo-Presbyterianism, sits
back, says, “What a good boy am
I,” and doesn’t even realize that
the events are taking place, much
less find out, on his own, enough
aboursthem to draw intelligent con-
clusions concerning them.

Consider, for example, the Da
vidsonian. Each week the editors
the columnists, and the news
articles present certain points of
view which may or may not co-

incide with those of the readers |

But the editor never knows how
the readers feel about the issues,
because the average Davidsonian
doesn’t respond. Even when an issue
as hot as the Negro question came
up, the paper didn’t receive but
three letters, and from an approxi-
mate circulation of 900, that’s 2
pretty poor showing.

But the Davidsonian is only
an example. The Davidson stu-
dent doesn’t attend forums, or
take part in debates, go to local-
ly produced dramatic produc-
tions or concerts, or keep on
the lookout for information con.
cerning the society he’s going
to live in eventually. In short,

he doesn’t keep up with the

world: culturally, in the class-

room, or in his relationships
with his fellow students.

For a good many of us, class-
room work has been reduced to 3
game of mental tug of war. The
professor tries to assign us as much
work as we can do, and the student
then proceeds to see how little of
that work he can do and still make
a passing grade. The classroom at
once becomes a dungeon of torture
for both student and professor, and
eventually one of them, usually the
latter, gives up in sheer disgust
and lets the student have a good
time. Learning ceases to exist, and
a golden opportunity for true ma-
turity is turned into a farce.

In the realm of social rela-
tionships with each other, the
student falls down intellectual-
ly. In most conversations in the
fraternity house and the dormi-
tory, the cultural and intel-
ligence level is -below college
standards, We seldom «sy
things significant to each ogher, ©
and when someone does say
something important, the reci-
pient usually doesn’t recognize it.
Now this doesn’t mean we have
to go eround with eour faces
attempting to solve the world’s
problems all the time, but when
some more enlightened in-
dividual brings up such a topic

we should at least know what

he’s talking about—and few of

us do.

Life in our complex society pre.
sents many problems, and what with
Korea and the cold war, it’s hard
to pin down our values and reduce
them to absolutes. Most of us are
headed for the service, and at times
a college education seems somewhat
useless. But to play around and
just have a good time seems to be
deeper than just laziness; people
are becoming afraid to find out too
much about life because in the pro-
cess, they're liable to find out sothe
mighty unpleasant things about
themselves. For them to really live
with themselves as they are would
then be impossible, so they retain
the security of self-satisfaction at
the price of intellectual curiosity;
all of which is a fancy way of say.
ing “Ignorance is bliss.”

The education one receives at
Davidson has many things to be
desired: ,more open-mindedness
among @fPulty and administration,
mort ‘respect for student opinions
in administrative problems, a larger
library, higher standards, a
sociology department — the list
could go on for several pages. But
it is our responsibility, as the
leaders of the next generation; to
make as much use as we possibly
can of the opportunities that we
have,

FROM THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

STUDENTS WANT SUBSIDIZATION;
LETS FORGET MORAL VICTORIES

By BEN CRAIG AND SHELLEY BEARD

There has been a request for stu-
dent opinion on the matter of foot-
ball or rather athletic subsidiza-
tion. The object of this letter is
to express that opinion and to
show upon what grounds that
opinion is held.

Let us first consider the situa-
tion as it faces us after a disastrous
football season. In order to do that
it is necessary to ask why the team
did so poorly. At this point we
wish to make clear that we are con-
sidering the won-lost record and
moral victories are not counted.
We will touch on this later.

Was the team inferior to the
teams that it faced? Was the morale
of the team bad? Was rivalry lack-
ing? The answer to the first two
questions is no and we say this
with reference to the opinion of the
coaches and players. We believe
that in the case of the third ques-
tion the answer is yes. Now we
need to decide if there were. any
other contributing factors. The
coaches will tell you that injuries
did the greatest amount of damage
to one of the potentially best foot-
ball teams that Davidson has had.

In other words the present sys-
tem of subsidization provided us
with our money’s worth but cir-

cumstances prevented the realiza-
tion of it. It seems therefore that
if subsidization is to be continued
the present set-up should be given
a fair trial.

Some few people seem to be
bothered with the idea that there
is something intrinsically wrong
with athletic scholarships. Their
objection seems to lie with the
opinion that a large athletic sub-
sidization program will lower the
standards of the college and use
money that should be used more
constructively. The errors here are
obvious, In the first place David-
son has never lowered its standards
to admit an athlete and there is no
reason to think that it ever will.
The second objection fails to real-
ize that the money used for ath-
letics comes from people who speci-
fy that that is how it is to be spent.
This money is not diverted from
other areas of the college program:
To the contrary, since the Wild-
cat Club has been functioning con-
tributions to the development fund
have increased.

The plea has been to abandon
subsidization entirely and join the
“Simon Pures.” We believe that
this would kill school spirit entirely
and would hurt the attitude of

the school. Before explaining why
let's take a look at the term
“school spirit.” Since coming to
Davidson we have heard the word
bandied about and not one single
person has tried to define what it
meant. We believe it means the
group pride that we have in David-
son College and in any group that
represents her. It is not different
from the pride of the individual.
When the individual does something
he wants to do it to the best of his
ability. In athletic competition he
wants to win. His pride depends
on his winning, his spirit depends
on his winning. But when he loses
he doesn’t help his pride by making
excuses or by saying to himself
that it doesn’t matter who won but
how the race was run. An athlete
who does this is alibying and will
not be at his best. If we admit de-
feat by joining the “Simon Pures”
the last vestige of school pride will
vanish,

We must forget we ever heard
about a moral victory and set out

to win some football games. If the
present system does not work the
all out program should be tried
before any abandonment takes
place.

S. V. M.

' “Why Force My Religion On Others”

(Following is the third of
“Eight Questions Students Ask
About Missions,” as set forth
in that pamphlet of the nation-
al Student Volunteer Move-

* ment, to be in The
Davidsonian. This condensa-
tion is by Davidson SVM
member George Knight.—Ed.)
By “forcing” religion on others,

surely no one has in mind the pic-
ture of a missionary treeing some
hapless non-Christian and making
him accept the Gospel. Yet this
question persists in many minds.

The question of force is one which

every convert-seeker must answer.

It is precisely the question with

which Jesus had to wrestle.

In the Wilderness the Tempter
cleverly suggested several ways by
which Christ could have forced His
religion on others. One was to fill
their stomachs. Another was to
somehow outwit them and take ad-
vantage of their credulity. Still an-
other was to exercise political
authority and coercion.

It is a constant temptation to try
to force our religion on others. But
to the extent we yield to it we
defeat our purpose. When we treat
that person as less than human for
whom, consequently, faith can have
no meaning, we thereby destroy
our purpose.

The Church has erred more often
in forgetting its missionary task
than in imposing the Christian re-
ligion on others. When the Charch
has been missionary it has been
concerned with evangelism, the

-

honest presentation of the Gospel
to the intellect, emotion and will
to the end of securing a voluntary
acceptance of it, rather than by
proselytism, the moving of a pagan
from one religious group to an-
other.

In practice missionary work
among non-Christians does not be.
gin by insisting that our con-
ception of God is superior to theirs.

Rather, the missionary job is begun
as a Christian goes to live and work
and talk among non-Christians.
And yet, rather than saying, “Look,
I’m an example of what all non-
Christians shovid become!” he
echoes Paul's demur, “We preach
not ourselves, but Christ and Him
crucified"—neither just a pleasant
example, nor even a pleasant Gos-
(Continued On Page Four)

WHEN HE DRINKS

A man is surely crazy when he drinks;

And his mind is always hazy, when he drinks.
He will get the toper’s blues,

When he fools his time with booze,

And his manhood he will lose, when he drinks.

A man is courting sorrow, when he drinks;
He is blighting his tomorrow, when he drinks.
When he gets a downward start,

And the stuff has won his heart

All his virtues will depart, when he drinks.

A man is wasting money, when he drinks,

He is neither wise nor funny, when he drinks.
If he yields to that desire,

For his passions are on fire,

Of the good he soon will tire, when he drinks.

A man is taking chances, when he drinks;

For he makes the wrong advances, when he drinks.
He will reap a crop of woe,

If his wild oats he doth sow,

And from bad to worse will go, when he drinks.

(Sent in by De. H. G, Haney of the Eighth Street Presbyterian
Church, Greenville, North Carolina.)
