PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

C

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR :

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER ...-......---.-----------+ Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ...---..-----.--.----------- John Ortley
Associate Editors ....--.- Brinkley, Daniel, Harter, Hope, Myers
Managing Editors. --.--.--....---- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor -......-.-----------------------0- Dick Roper

Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.

News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer --..---.--.-------- ew acanesessceescee ce -- Simons
Assistant Business Manager wee weeeenenccecnnceeennnnene Poston
Advertising Manager ...---.---.--------~--------------- Hasty
Circulation Manager ...-.---.----.------------------ Nicholson

wee we on ee we ee cere ose coc cescenens

Collection Manager

Entered as second class matter at*the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Want to Return New Year's Day?
It Not, Let’s Change Calendar !!!

The Cat Poll last week showed that the students of David-
son College were not at all in favor of returning from the
Christmas holidays on New Year's Day to -begin school on the
second of January.

This plan would be especially inconvenient for the men
living out of the state, for many would have to start back very
early on the morning of the first in order to get to school at a
reasonable hour in the evening. For those men who greet the
New Year with celebrations, it undoubtedly would be difficult
for them to start back early in the day. And, many students
who have always spent New Year's Day with their families
desire to continue the custom.

With these arguments at hand the Davidsonian undertook
to investigate the possibilities of a change in the present set up.
Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. Sam Spencer, and Mr. F. W. Hengeveld
of the Calendar Committee were consulted about the matter and
the following suggestions were submitted to them:

1. A one day extension—classes begin on January 3.
2. A two-day extension—classes begin on January 5.

3. Begin vacation on December 19 or 20, returning for
classes January 3 or 5.

4. Christmas vacation December 18-Januery 5, plus be-
tween semester vacation January 28-February 1, ex-
tending school one etxra week into June.

It was stated by the committee that they were well aware
of the disadvantages of returning to school on January 1. But
in studying the situation carefully before making up the calendar
last January, they could find no other suitable solution to the
problem.

Here are the arguments against the above four suggestions:

NUMBERS | AND 2:

The present school calendar meets the minimum require-
ments of the Southern Association—45 days of school each
semester for each three-hour course.

The threé-day Thanksgiving vacation granted to the stu-
dents this year, the Saturday holiday this Homecoming, and the
spring holidays take all available free days this school year. Thus,
there are no days that can be used for a one or two days ex-
tension of the Christmas vacation.

NUMBER 3:

To begin the vacation later would interfere with. student
plans for working during the holiday period, at which time
many students make considerable sums of money to help with
their schooling. Some students will have to cut several days of
school as the calendar now stands in order to get the jobs.

NUMBER 4:

To extend school into the first week of June would cause
summer school to open one week later. This would run the
last week of summer school into the opening week of football
practice in September which would not be possible. Also, the
cost of operation of an additional week of school has not been
taken into consideration for this year’s budget.

Therefore it seems the only feasible plan to extend
the Christmas vacation would be to take a day off of the
semester exam period which is not counted as a part of the
Southern Association requirement. If the members of the
student body feel this desirable, see Jack Ruth, student
body president. He can call a closed meeting of the student

THE NON-CONFO

WHETHER

QMIST — (Reauy Not Concennep
Hes RECoqgNzEeD AT THE ARTIST
SERIES OR NOT.).

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

A Shutter Is Snapped; Reveals
Proof Of A Negative Approach

Some hate broccoli, some hate

bacon,
I hate having my picture
taken,
—O.. Nash.

Among the advantages of the
new student identification system,
whereby one’s picture will open
the door to new vistas of sport,
culture and things, perhaps the
cleverest ‘benefit has been over.
looked.

To wit, the subtle way the pho-
tographer developed all the pic-
tures to- appear grotesquely iden.
tical, so that one card may be
shared by .roommates, fraternity
brothers or just anybody,

One picture, they say, is worth
the proverbial thousand words.
Why not, then, print enough of
the wallet-size caricatures to keep
on hand to send draft boards,
girts you asked up for Home-
coming last summer but now you
wonder why and other people you
want to scare.

There's little chance, however,
that either of these worry and
time-saving devices will ever be
used.. Even if they are, it will be
at someone else's suggestion.

Consequently there'll be a
change in the Cabbage Planter,
which column many people, in-

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

cluding the Cabbage Planter, hoped
would be killed over the summer
by a combination of drought, heat:
and blight. Hugo even stopped his
Vigoro account.

The new program, for lack of
a name, has been called the “I'd
Rather Sing Than Sack In Series,”
and will be dedicated to David-
son’s behind-the-scences activity. |

Certainly the most vital angle
will be to give boys with interest-
ing outside activities a chance to
let the world know about it. Boys
with intriguing hobbies are all
about us and we never notice
them. Take, for instance, Alex-
ander Watermark of the freshman
class. | ,

Called Atexandey for short, Wa-
termark spent all Jast summer in
the Charlotte post office keeping
a record of how many Greek two-
cent magentas went through up-
side down. There are the makings
of a real live-wire story, and you
can bet if we can find. Alexander,
we'll sure make him tell us about
it. There’s the scientific side, of
course, and then there's all the
love interest that can be worked
in. Naturally, we won't run a
serious article like that very often,
but only when our Why I'd Rather

Debate Than Date Series gets too
hot.

This Debating vs. Dating Series
springs from the fact that there
are several worthwhile institutions
on the campus, not the least of
which are religion, art, govern.
ment, athletics, education, and so-
cial enlightenment. Broken down,
they come under the headings of
YMCA; dramatics and literary
societies; Student Council; foot-
ball and other teams; Inter-Fra-
ternity Council, and other names
I can't think of right now.

As a rule, all that we as a stu-
dent body know or these is the re-
sult of their actions—anywhere
from. taking in sixty minutes of
football on an average of four Sat-
urdays a year to spending about
six hours in the gym on dance
weekends or watching “Macbeth”
during Fine Arts Week.

There's probably a story or two,
though, behind all this, and be-
cause there’s a chance that some
of it will make interesting and/or
provocative reading, we're going
to run a number of them in the
Cabbage Planter’s space.

More important than any one
article, however, is that none of
this space will be used to preach—

(Continued On Page Four)

FROM THE EDITORS

MAILBOx:

Students Support United Fund Drive As Best
Means Of Conducting Fund-raising Campaign

Dear Editor:

In response to your request for
personal opinion about the United
Appeal, I am writing to urge stu-
dent support of this effort.

this program, some individuals in-| of this United Appeal.

variably pop off, “But maybe all
don't wanta give to all dem things.”
This problem is certainly no draw-
back to the plan, if we just note
that the campaign has been worked

My opinion is based on the ad-| ont by all these charitable organiza-
vantageous practical aspects of the | gions-—who will benefit from it.

program -rather than an emotional
appeal of the plan. }

Although the real need of sup-
port of these charitable organiza-
tions such as the Salvation Army,
American Heart Association, Can-
cer Society, and Red Cross cannot
be over emphasized, I do not in-
tend to be sentimental and deal
with this phase.

The advantages of a_ united
drive at Davidson are many. If
such a plan were introduced here,
the student body would benefit
by the convenience afforded by
this institution. Rather than hav-
ing several drives throughout the
year, the student and faculty would
be able to concentrate their money
and energy to make one big suc-
cessful campaign.

In this, the student body would
be spared the necessary, but an-

It is administered by the United
Community Service and is certain-
ly in competent hands.

If there is any criticism of any
of these charitable organizations,
all I ask is that the objections be
based on first hand observation
and not merely on idle chatter and
second-hand dope.

To support a good charitable
cause is the moral obligation of
everyone who is able, and the in-
ner satisfaction of this service is
unsurpassed.

I commend The Davidsonian
and urge your continued support

Sincerely,
BILL ELLIOTT.

Dear sir:

As. dues-paying members of “The
Soft-Touch Club,” or Davidson
student body, we believe the United
Appeal proposal as stated in last
week’s editorial is one answer to
the problem of multiple giving.

One concerted attack on the wal-
lets and billfolds of the Davidson
students would be a clean, decisive
stroke—an improvement over the
present situation of giving with the
mental reminder of “holding some
back for the WCTU drive next
month.”

Therefore, enlist us in your cause.
Givers of Davidson, unite! You
have nothing to lose...

Respectfully,
101 VILLAGE,

THAT LUCKY

Male students at the University since earliest days have be.
moaned the scarceness of members of the opposite sex on the

campus, ‘

The usual ratio in the past has been approximately three or

body, take a vote, and carry out the necessary procedure

with the executive committee.

We would like to suggest that the student body officers
who are interested in making a change in next year's calendar
begin to plan now. The Calendar Committee meets in January
and any proposed change must be submitted to them at that time

in the form of a petition.—F.H.

noying publicity which accompanies
each drive,

Also, this plan would afford
some of the “service” of-
ganizations on the campus a real
opportunity to show why they are
so distinguished. To these clubs,
United Appeal is a challenge, this
is a service that Davidson needs.

After a cursory examination of

four males to every woman student enrolled. Although the women
on campus have not seemed to mind this arrangement too much,
the men have been loud and insistent in their strident demands that
something be done. Just exactly what is to be done. has never been
clearly specified but, nevertheless, the men insist, something must
be done to correct the situation. ;
Actually, the male segment of the University population should
be more than content. Here the ratio is only four to one, but at
Davidson College in North Carolina things are a little worse, Its

enrollment? Men—825; Women—1,
—Daily Athenaeum, W. Va. U.

THE FREE LANCE:

specialty is the manufacture of gar-
den hose in 2-foot lengths, has re-
newed a contract on the campus.
From all reports the riot squad
methods of Doug Rice’s Court of
Control have been dug up and re-
applied. What happened to the sane
and constructive policies of Judges
Hoopy Davis and Johnny Guiton?

Though it makes for good fun
around the boarding house table
the next day, we wonder what
results the “tough guy” attitude
produces on (a) the freshmen and
(b) the tough guys.

In the latter case it appears that
the court is being run for their
entertainment rather than for the
benefit of the offenders.

Somehow we have the idea
that organized barbarism
should have gone out with high

«school letter club initiations.

At this age. it is not flattering

to us to make a fetish of per-

versity. ;

Trying to terrify the freshmen
causes two general reactions. We
rernember our own experience with
Rice’s third-rate inquisition. °It not
only did us no positive good, but
kindled a deep-seated resentment
of the court and of the so-termed
“Davidson Way of Life.”

We know of one first year man
who already has been given an
opening to such a view.

-The alternate reaction is that
a boy is hurt and driven into
a sort of protective shell. His
adjustment to college is not
only hindered, but in some
cases prevented. Again our at-
tention has been drawn to one
boy who had more or less this
reaction.

Perhaps we have spoken too soon.
If so and it is the intention of the
“judge” to change his tactics, we

STRANGE PHENOMENON

The Ursilus Rubber Co., whose

By JOHN OTTLEY

apologize. On the other hand it
may be that we have not spoken
soon enough.

Humor—You Say

You haven't had a chance yet
this year, but how often in years
past has the cry gone up for a
strictly humorous magazine for the
800-odd prisoners of Chillon.

We note with interest an edi-
torial in The Daily Tar Heel
urging the student body to sup-
port their humor magazine,
Tarnation. It appears that
apathy at the reputed center
of Southern sin has nearly
forced that publication on the
rocks.

If the worldly citizens of UNC
don’t get fired up over humor, what
would a humor magazine's fate at
simon-pure D.C. be? Naturally a
near bankruptcy at UNC can’t be
proof of a dying interest in all
comic mags, but if called upon to
offer financial support of one, we
feel the Davidson gent would take
his customary seat in the rear.

This leaves us with the heretical
act of accepting—accépting ‘our
Scripts "N Pranks the way it is, a
half and half affair.

Incidentally despite the above,
we hear Myers has cooked up a
real funny for the first issue.

Who Said It?

A favorite trick around this cen-
ter of things epistemological is to
silence an argument by a sly and
learned reference to the comment
of some well-known philosopher.
The speaker lets a slow smile creep
over his face which suggests of
his having dined upon a_ rather
distasteful fare.

In a land of hero.worship-
pers such as ours, this is a
particularly effective trick. We
become so awed at a name
which resembles a Greek that

Third Degree Treatment Is Not
Way To Aid Frosh Adjustment

we immediately concede the

point of dispute.

A sad fact to be revealed to us
is that history has made its mark
everywhere — even in sacred
philosophy. One can not honestly
take any one thinker’s system and
call it the end answer to all human
problems.

Admittedly one can look at some
of the destructive thinkers with
credulous eyes, but even in their
denial of things they are creating.

Being introduced to rational
thinkers is almost a new ex-
perience to many of us and we
have a tendency to desert our
inherited empiricism and go
hog wild in the search of uni-
versals.

Either that or we gobble up the
rationalists having never acquired
any empiricism at all by virtue of
some religious affiliation.

We don’t go far enough. We sip
and then want to flee out in the
world singing, “Ah, at last I know
the answer to it all.” The brutal
fact is that we don’t, and have not
the right to try to lord a little
learning over anyone who has not
done the reading we have done.

At bese Truth is being reached
by an evolutionary process with
thinkers and artists of every- age
getting a little closer through the
comparison and rejection method.

To read in philosophy pre-
scribes a tremendous obliga-
tion to the reader. It ig not
for him to spout pedantic slush
and conquer those who haven’t
read, but to rack his brain for
an intelligent criticism of what
has been read.

The natural result of accurate
criticism is a morsel of creation.
At this stage of the game of the
universe even a morsel is invalu-

OBSERVED

AS NESBITT OFFICIALLY ARRIVES

Sometime last week, though no-
body is exactly sure when, a phe-
nomenon suddenly appeared on the
Davidson campus which, because
of its peculiar nature, has
almost driven the Administration
crazy. It was discovered by Cop
Linker as he was dutifully making
his rounds at about two o'clock
in the morning. who suddenly no-
ticed this creature strolling back
and forth between the library and
the Science Building, and bawdily
singing songs of a less than deli-
cate nature. Luckily for those of us
whose ears have been unsullied
through these formative years by
such garbage, this oddity did not
have superior enunciation of the
English language, and thus we were
spared a shocking embarrassment.

According to Cop Linker, the
dialect which this undetermined
character used seemed to be Yad-
dish in flavor, thus pointing the
finger of guilt at our brethren
across the sea for having foisted
such a misconception upon us.
Needless to say, the Administra-
tion has kept “It,” dur unknown
visitor, in deepest hiding ever since
his capture. Scientists are rushing

from every point of the United
States to Davidson in an effort
to ascertain the nature and heredity
of this unfortunato creature.
Some of us were confronted
with this problem when, while
walking by Dean Bailey’s house one
night, we heard a voice using the
most urgent tones issuing from: the
upstairs window. It seems that the
Good Dean is beset by many
pressing problems, and this last
catastrophe which has been spoken
of was more than he could bear.
He has taken to talking in his
sleep to relieve the unbearable
tension, and it was thus that we
learned of this peculiarity which
has invaded our domicile. Feeling
that the Student Body should not
be ignorant of this eccentricity, we
hastened to verify what we thought
were aimless meanderings by the
Good Dean's troubled mind. Alas,
it was all too true. Gentlemen, with
all due respect to Darwin's theory
of Evolution, I believe that we
have found the object of so many
vehement arguments: The Missing
Link. As we approached the cage
with our hats held reverently over
our hearts and muttering “Te

Deum Laudabamini’s” to ourselves,
the fog slowly lifted and we found
ourselves face to face with this un-
equatled rarity. Seated in the cage
and surrounded by all its printine
glory was—Nesbitt, The Neuter
Nude.

It seems that Nesbitt had a very
unhappy homelife. His father was
a Babylonian eunuch who didn't
realize his own limitations, and for
his untimely excursion into the
harem was promptly beheaded.
Nesbitt’s little playmates treated
It with disdain, ‘though it never
knew why, for among the Asiastics
as the Americans, even your best -
friend won't tell you. Well, we all
have our crosses to bear.

So now a new student has ma-

-triculated to our beloved institution

of higher learning. Its activities will

be somewhat limited, (Nesbitt

doesn’t date), but it has promised -
to give us any observation which

is deemed pertinent to our Way of

Life. Watch for his lurid com-

mentaries in following issues. And

be on the lookout for Nesbitt, The

Neuter Nude.

Campus capers

call for Coke

There’s bedlam in the
stands when the team is on
a march to the goal. Keep
things going! Refresh now
and then with a frosty
bottle of delicious Coca-Cola.

COTTLED UNDER AUTHONTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.

“Clin!” te @ roghtered wabe-cuark.

© 1982, THe COcA-coua COMPANY
