PAGE.TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .-,....---..-...-.-....-- Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER .....-..------..---..----- Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ...........----------2+---0- John Ottley
Associate Editors ---.-.-. 9 ----..-- Brinkley, Harter, Hope,

Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Managing Editors -.-....-.----.-- Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor -~.---..---.-..--------.-----.---.- Dick Roper

Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.

News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer .-.--.----~. ..-2- n-ne nee e ene n ne we eee Simons
Assistant Business Manager -...--.-----------2---e eee Poston
Advertising Manager ...-....--~.--.---- eee enn nnn Hasty
Circulation Manager ....------.-----.----2---------- Nicholson
Collection Manager -~.-..---.-.-....------2-.-.---2- Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Dr. Mcliwaine Thompson

(Editor’s note: This fine tribute to Dr. McIlwaine Thompson,
was given in Vespers last Sunday evening by Dr. Cunningham.)

Two weeks ago at this hour we began our Fall Services.
We were al! pleased to have. for those not to be forgotten days,
Dr. McIlwaine Thompson as our leader.

From the beginning, he spoke as one inspired.-His freshness
of spirit, his clarity of thought. his sense of mission, and his
eagerness for a verdict impressed themselves on all of us who
knew him and on many others.

His messages were both timely and timeless. He proclaimed
the Gospel of Christ with intelligence. force and urgency. For
three evenings and three mornings he gave himself eagerly to
his messages. Throughout those days he made himself available
to all who sought him whether in groups or in personal counsel.

Some of us who had known his condition previously were
deeply impressed with his willing sacrifice of himself during
those days. He was‘fully aware of his physical limitations.
Special treatment had been given him before he came. His
devoted wife changed-her plans for coming to Davidson to visit
here with friends and to be with him in order that she might be
ready to go with him on the serious mission which was to take
him last week to New York. He preached last Sunday in Staun-
ton, Virginia. and then, with her, was off to the hospital.

many

It hardly seemed possible when the message came day before
yesterday that our friend who had ‘spoken to us slightly over
a week before had been transported from this life to the land
of the unsetting sun. We are saddened that we shall see his face
no more. We are exceedingly thankful for his heavenly ministry
to us. If he expended the energies in our behalf he was later to
need. then as I wrote his father the day after he left here, I
believe it was a wise economy. Surely we shall try to guarantee
that his word to us was seed sown in good ground.

along with

to Florence, Naples, Capri,

Venice.

His last message was on ‘The Living Lord of Life.” He
has heard the call of his Lord—and we believe he knows Him
now, and knows Life as never before. Our gratitude is to God
who sent him to Davidson as Student. Professor, Preacher. Our
faith is strengthened in our Lord and Redeemer. Our sympathy
flows freely to his parents, brothers and sisters, his wife and
little children. We are humbled and solemnized by this
Providence. We say with the Psalmist. ‘So teach us to number
our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.”

Approaching Blood Drive Asks
Each Man A Personal Question

As another blood drive approaches in December, it would
be well if all of us stopped for a minute to think about the
matter of donating blood. A great majority of the student body
-has generously donated blood in the drives during the past
several years. But have we ever considered why we are motivated
to give?

businessmen walk the

shirts and conservative,

Princeton instigated an

We believe that there has been a great deal more than
giving just for the sake of giving. The present conflict in Korea
has made the apparent need real. Already five Davidson men
have given their lives to the service of their country and several
others have been reported wounded. This is certainly the most
striking reason why we should give.

come foreign missionaries.”

There are also many deep-rooted underlying reasons that
motivate us to donate our blood. As Americans we are proud of
our heritage and our democratic way of life. We believe that
we must fight to preserve our freedom that we might continue
to be the greatest country in the world.

And perhaps another thought is that we are grateful for|‘W° hundred.

the opportunity to continue our education in these troubled
times. It is the least we can do to take ten painless minutes out
of our day’s schedule to aid the fighting men in Korea who are
preserving our way of life.

self-governing,

This writer feels that the men of Davidson College will | of the Churches.

again wnite to give blood in the same fine spirit shown in the
past and will make this a record drive. Our blood is the strength
of America!

Drink

FINE FOODS ‘M
STEAKS
CHICKEN 1)INNERS O
FOUNTAIN SERVICE O
Open Sundays 9
Phone 132 wom MILK
STONESTREET'S .
Gade A Cae Mooresville

Creamery, Inc.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Dial 3-6941

418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

DAVIDSONIAN_ ABROAD:

Italy Is Hot As Hades In Summer
But Ice Cream And Spaghetti Help

Italy was hot as the hinges of
h— this summer, at least during
the week of the heat wave which
struck all of Europe, and which
came, togéther with tourists and
dollars, from America. The Ital-
ians philosophically took the bad
the good—the poor
Italians did, that is; the rich ones
traveled to the Alps for their va-
cation, about the same time that
American tourists treked to Rome,
or

All businesses, of course, are closed
from noon until three o'clock in
the afternoon in Italy. But Italian
streets
calmly and seemingly in perfect
sanity, properly attired in starched
woolen
suits. Everyone to his own taste!

History Of The Student Volunteer Movement
Reveals True Purpose, Leaders, And Progress

Dwight L. Moody convened the
first YMCA conference for col-
lege students in July of 1886 at
Mt. Hermon, Mass. It ,was here
that the Student Volunteer Move-
ment was born. Robert Wilder of
interest
among the two hundred and fifty-
one delegates which resulted in
one hundred of them signing the
statement: “We are willing and
desirous, if God permit, to be-

Tn 1886.1887 Robert Wilder and
John Forman, both India born and
both from Princeton, visited one
hundred and sixty-two colleges and
seminaries and enrolled over two
thousand Student Volunteers. Rob-
ert. Speer was the traveling secre-
tary in 1889-1890 and enrolled one
thousand one hundred and ten
from one hundred and ten schools.
By 1891 the total was six thousand

Formal organization was effected
im 1888 and the Movement, though
became the mis-
sionary arm of the student Chris-
tian Associations and the recruit-
ing agency for the Mission Boards

From 1888 to 1920 the chairman

mos EVE View THE FREE LANCE:

as rau
Spell

As EXHtBs Teo Dues
THE
arten-cHarec Ro. TRIP.

In what purported to be a dis-
cussion last Sunday night the sub-
jection of a free press at Davidson
was bandied about between the
leaders of the group to the greater
or lesser illumination of the stu-
dents who happened to attend.

What quickly became apparent
was that the faculty is seldom in-
fluenced to action by unthought-
ful criticism from the editorial page
of this paper or any other kind of
criticism.

It was clear that the solu-
tion to having the faculty
(ie, administrative governing
bodies at the college) hear stu-
dent ideas in a fairly unbiased
frame of mind was the sug-
gested rejuvenation of the stu-
dent-faculty committee.

Hot criticism from this page, no
matter how justified, does tittle
more than to root policy makers
deeper in their holes, it was said
at the discussion. .

Such writing also alienates
the student body from the
faculty and makes them seem
to be working at entirely dif-
ferent ends.

Whether this is rationalizing the
adamancy of the governing bodies
or not is a moot point. It does
stand to reason, however, that it
the student-faculty committee were
to meet each week and talk over
issues as they arose there might
be a more direct and cooler pre-
sentation of ideas on both sides.

Cursing an action in retro-
spect, which is all students can
do now, seldom has the effect
of criticising it when it first
comes up.

Are we saying that the Davidso-
nian should discontinue its edi-
torial page? No, it can still form
an invaluable function of present-
ing to the study body various
opinions of the action taken by
the committee and/or merely re-

From The Bookshelf

By BOBBY WALKER

Below is a list of books on va-
rious fields or professions, but com-
prehensible by all Davidson stu-
dents. One may strike your fancy.
If it does, read it! If you have
read them all, congratulations! Your
scope of reading is considerably
larger than the founder of this
literary endeavor, but still in the
state of magma.

Economics and Business

“Economic Policy for a Free
Society,” H. Simons.

“Dollar Shortage,”
berger.

“The Memoirs of Herbert Hoo-
ver,” Volume IIE.

Pre.Med

“Behind the Doctor,” L. Cles-
dening.

“The Development of Modern
Medicine,” R. H. Shryock.

By GEORGE BASON

Those Italians who can afford it
stuff themselves royally at their
midday meal, starting off with a
heaping plateful of spaghetti and
a small-sized bottle of wine, fol-
lowing this with the main course,
which consists largely of.a quan-
tity of meat, and topping off with
a large bowlful of assorted fruits.
After this, the only thing you can
do is roll away from the table and
go to sleep—we suspect the real
purpose of the whole masochistic
ritual is to provide an excuse for
sleeping during the hottest part of
the day.

One other item of Italian cuisine
which cannot go without mention:
ice cream. The Italian ice cream
comes in all flavors and varieties,
and it is heavenly. Unlike Ameri-
cans, however, Italians eat their

ice cream in moderation; they are
amazed to see us perform such
feats as eating a pint of ice cream
at one sitting, or even half a pint.
They gaze in a combination of .ad-
miration at the enormity of the
performance, horror at its indubi.
able gpastronomical consequences,
and amazement at the sheer fool-
hardiness of the Americans, who

can be regarded, in the light of
such spectacles, as nothing but big,
overgrown children.

Italy, of course, is known for
other things than heat and food,
but, as the saying goes, those things
could easily occupy a whole li-
brary of books—and I have no in-
tention of writing any one of these
books,

C. Kindle-

By GEORGE E. NICKELS

of the executive committee was
John R. Mott, one of.the first of
Student Volunteers and an influ.
ential leader in the student YMCA.
He did much to unify the various
phases of the Student Christian
Movement and to relate them to
the growing missionary program

vitality and effectiveness. In 1891
the first of the Quadrennial Con-
ventions began, the last of which
about twenty Davidson students
were privileged to attend in Law-
rence, Kansas, just this past Christ-
mas. Each student generation was
thus faced with a missionary ap-

. Pre-Law “
of the church. . peal ‘by such leaders as John R.J| , . *
The SVM chapter here was re-| Mott, Robert E. Speer, G. Sher. rin Justice Black,” John P.
cently honored by Dr. C. R. Eber-| wood Eddy, Dr. John Mackay of . .
Princeton, and others. The late Pre-Ministerial

hardt’s gift of five volumes by
John R. Mott, including the his-
tory of SVM, autographed by their
author and originally presented as
a gift by Dr. Mott to Dr. Eber-
hardt.

‘The movement continued into
and through. the first two decades
of. the 1900's with all its former

“Essentials of Bible
E. W. K. Mould.

Fiction

“The Caine Mutiny,” Herman
Wouk,

“Matador,’’ Barnaby Conrad.

DAVIDSON
THEATRE |

THURS.-FRL, NOV. 20.21

DREAMBOAT

CLIFTON WEBB
GINGER ROGERS

Dr, W. McIlwaine Thompson in
his Fall) Services’ messages re-
ferred to his own encouraging ex-
periences with Sherwood Eddy.
In the fifty years between 1886
and 1936 almost fifty thousand
Student Volunteers were enrolled,

(Continued on Page Four)

History,”
N

SATURDAY, NOV. 22

Wait Till The San

JEAN PETERS
DAVID WAYNE

MON.-TUES., NOV. 24-25

Red Mountain

ALLAN LADD
LIZABETH SCOTT

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 26

Lady In The Iron

Mask
LOUIS HAYWARD
PATRICIA MEDINA

A Rejuvenated Student-Faculty
Committee Only Way to Action

By JOHN OTTLEY

porting and interpreting what is{ resenting Davidson and Queens at
taking place at its meetings. a recent Eumanean meeting.

We claim to have a student de- After the debate the girls
mocracy and the only type of de-| posed to the members the ques-
mocracy which has any lasting] tion “What are you looking
power is an informed democracy. for in a date or in a girl whom

This is not in anyway a re- you would consider for mar.
versal of face or a selling short riage?” It seems that our fe-
of the men who have labored male counterparts are per-
to write critically and intelli- plexed as to just how girls
gently on this page. It is a should act to please boys.
realization of the time factor in Not only they, but all of woman-
determining the efficacy of this | hood is belabored by this burden.
criticism. We fear the poor things are tak-

We believe the object of those} ing themselves too seriously.
who have written consistently for A few of the more dishonest
this page has been to get things] members ventured to arise and
done or changed as the case may] make pious denials of the in-
be rather than just to criticise] , terests of the flesh and say
emptily. Davidson men went forth seek-

We contend that there is ing in Queens girls soul com-
enough initiative left in our panions, gitls to whom they
contemporaries to find their could unload the troubles of
own positive methods once their separate cosmologies here.
their faults have been pointed They wanted women to con-
out. sole them, to entertain them,

We do not feel that Davidson| to share in their aspirations.
young men have to be told what] And how the young ladies glowed
to do as well as what they are/at this! We could almost hear
doing wrong. We hope our fellow] them making mental! notes to write
students are not that spoon-fed yet.| Marilyn Monroe saying “We've

In the envisioned renewed stu-| found you out you rascal you! It
dent-faculty committee we see an| was virtue all along.”
easier way of getting things done We suspect the crushing
than by trying to convince policy-] truth is that Davidson men
makers they have done wrong after| geek qualities a shade less ideal
they have been given the opportu-| in their Queens dates after five
nity to do it. days of seeing nothing more

What Girl For You? feminine than the window dis-

We note with interest the in-| plays of local entrepreneurs.
ability of several representatives] We will confess that when it
from our student body to state in] comes to marriage the standards
more or less precise terms exactly|of Joe Davidson lift quite meas-
what type of girl they wanted ‘to| urably. In many cases it is then
find when they showed up at] the long suffering puritans of the
Queens for a date. opposite sex are rewarded, All

The discussion resulted from a] this is pointing to one fact—at this
debate harboring on that subject] juncture many collegians are not
between two oratorical teams rep-' looking for happy home makers.

FOR QUICK SERVICE

BATES CLEANERS

DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED
LAUNDRY SERVICE

the

"DESERT
BOOT
1.99

By Clark's of England

SOFT AS A SLIPPER, LIGHT AS
A FEATHER . . . TOUGH AS THE
DESERT ITSELF. SUPPLE SUEDE
UPPERS WITH CREPE RUBBER
SOLES. SAND, BROWN or NAVY.
DESIGNED FOR BRITISH TROOPS

106-14 W. Trade St. Store Hours 9 to 5:30, Thurs. 9
