PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF ...........0............06 BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER ...............00...05, ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors ---..-.-...-.. Shelly Bence, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray
Managing Editors .......-.- Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,

John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers
City Editor—Nat Daniels

Assistant Business Manager ..------.----------- Boo Northcutt
Advertising Manager -.-.----..--.-.-.------------ Jack Hobson
Circulation Manager ---....-...---.-------~--------- Bob Poston
Collection Manager -..-.-...----------------------- Bill Minter

Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Were State Alumni Covering Up
In Irate Counterattack On Editor?

We only know what we read in the papers. but from
what we can glean from our exchanges and the AP accounts.
the N. C. State squabble between The Technician. student paper,
and 16 Mecklenburg County members of the Wolfpack Club
smells strongly of alumni cover- -up of a guilty conscience.

What other reason should a group of grown, supposedly
intelligent college graduates have to the publication of facts
concerning their program of athletic subsidization?

If all is running smooth and above- board, why should
these Mecklenburg members say of editor Paul Foght’s informa-
tion-demanding editorial: ‘’. . . it took a lot of nerve for a stu-
dent editor to demand information about a matter which was
no concern of his or any other student.’”

Foght, in an editorial January 25 had requested that H. A.
Fisher, chairman of the College Athletic Council resign or ‘‘pre-
sent a full explanation of his actions in connection with the
ouster of football coach Beattie Feathers,’’ and also sought in-
formation about the Wolfpack Club’s use of Student Supply
Store profits for athletic subsidization.

Pointing to the fact that 60% of their college education is
“charity’’ in that it is paid for out of taxes supporting the state
school, the Mecklenburg petition to State College Chancellor
J. W. Harrelson asking that Foght be “punished.” also weakly
cried, ‘“‘when any student reaches the point that he thinks he
owns the institution, it is time for him to be advised to transfer
elsewhere.”

Since when was athletic policy of a college, and particularly
use of scholastic funds. of ‘‘no concern’' of any student? And
when alumni, if the college can still call them such, think that
they can buy their way into control of a college's policies—ath-
letic or otherwise, it's high time he moved elsewhere.

We're of the old school which still clings to the idea that
the school exists for the student, and that he has the right of
inquiry. When alumni start demanding that a student editor
be ‘punished’ (silenced), suppression of freedom has begun.

Gentlemen don’t react to criticism—be it just or unjust—
in the manner of the Mecklenburg mudders. That's why we say
the mess smells of attempts at a covered conscience. Even if
they're not covering anything with this irate little counter-offen-
sive, that action still, in the terms of the common man, smells,

Boyd’s Boys Had The Knack
For Thrillers --- To The End

Ordinarily we leave such nice duty to the sports department.
but The Davidsonian can't help going on record with an end
of the season pat on the back for Coach Boyd Baird and his
basketballers. Not for the reason of record, mind you, but for
the thriller-diller entertainment provided these past winter eve-
nings.

While moral victories went out with Alumni Gym, it is
still encouraging and enjoyable to see your club in the thick of
every fight—even if it is only until the last minute. We can only
recall seeing the Cats turn in sad performances in two instances
—the N. C. State opener and the home-court loss to South
Carolina.

Out of town Boyd's Boys often fell apart at the seams,
looked ragged, and helped their record none. But they always
put on a good show for the homefolks. They were always tough
to take when backed into their home lair. They had that ex-
asperating knack for following a Hollywood script—the kind
that fools you at the end when the hero loses out. Yet it was
proof that there’s something to scrap after all, and their season
—though a losing one—fanned the flickering flame of that
much discussed and almost snuffed Wildcat spirit for the cur-
rent College generation.

Hectic February Saw Losses
Range From Little To SAE Lion

Dragged out to the last bitter extra day, February, 1952,
passes with a sigh into the past of Davidson history.

Still the shortest month in the year despite its Leap Year
addition, February packed 29 hectic days i into the life of the Col-
lege.

February was the month of Crowell Little's resignation,
following a facts-of-life talk before the trustees. It brought the
embarrassing chapel on “Abernethy’s Tuesday.”’ It was the
month of reform from the student body, venting expression
through the Friday morning “town meetings.” February saw
six more naval reservists summoned to active duty, and SAE
was dealt a double blow when they lost their cast-iron lion, to
boot. For the pledges, February meant co-operation in Greek
Week, but it also meant the inconveniencing agonies of hell week.
To top the list, the tail end of the month has ushered in reviews.

e¢
|

One night I am standing in
front of Mindy’s restaurant on
Broadway partaking heartily of a
large pretzel which I buy from a
dealer who is closing ont his stock
at half price since everyone who
is ordinarily partaking of his mer-
chandise is either in the pokey or
a speakeasy. Moreover, I am think-
ing about how I am to raise eight
bobs with which I can return to
Doc Brennan at ten bells as he
requests me to the day before, I
go around to see him abuut a buzz-
ing in my head, he looks in my
mouth and speaks as follows:

“You are obviously a man with
many worries,” Doc Brennan says.
“Come back at ten bells Saturday.
Ten bucks, please.”

So I walk out of Doc Brennan's
office with one more worry and
that is where I am to get eight

more bobs to pay Doc Brennan to-

morrow, Well, I am standing there
wien all of a sudden I look up and
who is looking at my pretzel but
Freddy South Philly Muldoon.
Now I am no onc to be letting
Freddy South Philly Muldoon get
close enough to look at-me, much
less any merchandise which is con-
nected to my person, because Fred.
dy South Philly is noted for palling
around with Actor Willie Sutton,
who is a véry wanted man by the
coppers, but very unwanted by me
or any other reputable citizen.
Actor Willie is well known for
sending Freddy out to citizens with
notes: that he wants to see them
and its not unusual that he is the
last man they see on this earth.
Therefore I remember at this time
that I have a date in Yonkers and

SYSTEM AT DAVIDSON.
A DAVIDSON GENTLEMAN, DID You SET OFF
FIRECRACKERS IN WATTS DoRM?”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

A Plagiarism:

am about -to start for there when
Freddy takes my arm and says,
“Are you ever in trouble?” Now
I do not know whether Freddy
means Am I ever in trouble? or
Am I ever in trouble? so because
T am trying to avoid worrying, I
take the first and say no.

“Good,” Freddy South Philly
says, “because I am.” This Fred-
dy South Philly does not need to
say because I and many other citi-
zens are aware of this plus many
coppers who are often asking me
questions concerning such matters.
“I am in trouble,” he says, “be-
cause Actor Willie Sutton, whom
you know, comes home this morn-
ing after work and finds both his
girl, one Miss Wisteria Weep, and
one hundred and ten G’s miss-
ing. Now he is suspecting that they
leave together and because of this
sends me out to find one, where
he is confident I will find the
other.”

I understand Freddy South Phil-
ly’s story because Actor Willie is
one party who cannot take a joke
on himself. He is often playing a
similar trick on a bank where. he
works, but he is very nasty when
some one whom he trusts turns the
tables so to speak. I cannot solve
Freddy South Philly’s problem,
however, because he only needs to
find Miss. Wisteria Weep and
Actor Willie takes over from there.
Freddy South Philly continues,
speaking as follows:

“My problem is that I am part-
ly responsible for the missing
articles,” Freddy says, “because I
am the party who persuades Miss
Wisteria Weep to turn up missing

PRESUME YOU UNDERSTAND THE HONOR
ON YOUR HONOR THEN, AS

“+ MANY

The Snatching
Of One Actor Willie Sutton

Plagiarized by T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

and who finds for her an apartment
in Brooklyn while I use one hun-
dred and ten G’s to set myself up
in the unlicensed beverage busi-
ness.”

Well, I admire Freddy South
Philly’s business snoot, of which
if he has as big a one as he uses
on his face, he. is a very good
bisiness man indeed’ because the
unlicensed beverage business is up
in the, paint cards these days, but
I am not wishing to have any truck
whatever with any guy who is
using for collateral any articles such
as his boss's bankrolt and doll.

Just as I. am again remembering
my date in Yonkers, Freddy
South Philly takes my arm again
and says to me, “There are five
yards in it for you if you go to my
boss and tell him that I am at this
address in Brooklyn and am hold-
ing the doll and the dough for him
to pick up and for him to bring a
car because it is a very refined
neighborhood which a shot might
cause no little annoyance in, a ride
in the country over in Jersey being
a mitch nicer plan.”

As I say, I am needing eight bobs
to give Doc Brennan to find out
how to stop worrying, and I am
not a guy who will turn down eight
bobs, especially if four hundred
and ninety-two bobs are thrown in
extra, but I do not want to accept
payment from such a guy as Fred-
dy South Philly for such a job as
he describes. However, on the arm
which is not holding my arm, Fred-
dy South Philly is carrying a rod
which he is noted for being second
only to Actor Willie in using ac-

(Continued On Page Four)

‘Why Not Our Own Backyard?’

Following is the fourth of
“Eight Questions Students
Ask About Missions,” as set
forth in that pamphlet of the
National Student Volunteer
Movement to be discussed in the
Davidsonian. This condensa-
tion is by Davidson SVM
member George Knight.

Here's a challenging letter to the
Syracuse Daily Orange from a
couple of local coeds:

Jesus warned us to beware lest
we be so concerned with the speck
in someone else’s eye that we fail
to notice the two-by-four that is
lodged in our own. Does it not fol-
low that we should wake up to the
needs of our native America and
concentrate our energies right here
instead of dispersing them through.
out the world? The question is a
good one and is not easy to answer.
Certainly the Church is not doing
all that it should at home—far from
it—the needs are tremendous and
our facilities are at best inadequate.

It is certainly evident that any
policy which passes over real needs
close at hand, to go abroad, lacks
essential integrity: if our strategy
is insensitive to the job here, we
could question whether it can have

real appreciation of the needs in| of our energies must still be focused
some more complicated fields over- | on our immediate environment, it is
seas. Some Christians are guilty of] true, but it is part of the work of
dodging their responsibility for the] the Church to enlarge its perspec-
close at hand by a great zeal for) tive and the scope of its activity
the remote. Women work hard at|to include other areas as well.
their missionary societies who} For the Church to be justified in
would raise an eyebrow at the very | world mission work, it is not nec-
idea of inviting a Negro to their| essary that all the home problems
homes. be solved first. There is a tendency

Yet as we look about us in Ameri-| to place too much emphasis on the
ca, we ate impressed with how/| distinction between home and
much personnel and equipment foreign work, All is a part of the
Christianity does have here, 140,000] Church’s responsibility — our
ministers, almost that many|“neighbor” is not only the man
churches, 60,000,000 Church mem | across the street but also the man
bers, countless number of agencies! across the globe, We should not
inspired by Christianity, an active | completely neglect a whole area of
home mission emphasis within the! responsibility just because we have
Churches, and some program of| not finished working in another.
social betterment combine to pro- Probably neither area will be per.
duce a huge organizational. poten. | fect in our lifetime anyway, and we
tial for effective Christian action. | must attempt to perform our whole
The Church’s work in America falls] job. Besides, our motive to mis-
far short of fulfilling its responsi-| sionary activity is not a desire to
bilities, but when it is compared] pass on to others what we have
with facilities for Christian action} finished with, but rather, to witness
in other countres such as Africa,]to the “good news” concerning
where one missionary may serve| Jesus Christ. The missionary task
an area of 100 miles or more, it is|is God's making His intention real
then that we begin to realize that|“to every creature’—and we are
there is even greater need in other | called to. serve in it until it is ac-
parts of the world. The main stream | cemplished,

NAT DANIEL:

BIA Defi A Definition Of Popularity:

The Criterion Of Candidacy

One of the criticisms of the
present election system has
been that elections have been
reduced to nothing more than
“popularity” contests, Popu.
larity has been defined as
being that recognition based on
athletic prowess, scholastic
abilities, “friendliness” (know-
ing everybody) or the rather
dubious notoriety of the “joke”
candidate, The implications are
that there is a grave danger of
electing candidates to office
who have no qualifications
other than these, and that the
elections system itself is at
fault.

Now no matter what sort of elec.
tion system we have, the most
“popular” candidate is going to win.
The basis for his popularity may
not be a solid structure~in many
instances it isn’t (1948 presidential
elections), but at Davidson the sit-
uation is somewhat different, and
consequently the so-called stan-
dards of popularity are based on a
different ideology: the Christian
principles upon which the institu-

a

tion was founded. Popularity is
more than just getting the most
votes, and we should do well to
look at some of its characteristics:
The first and foremost char-
acteristic of popularity is in-
tegrity--the jategrity to value
character so highly that you
can never be bought or bribed
in any way, and the integrity
to stand up for your principles
in the face of the most trying
conflicts.

The second fundamental char-
acteristic of popularity is honesty.
This means more than the negative
sort of honesty we present to the
outside world—not cheating, not
stealing, not lying, etc., and includes
the honesty which comes only as
we grow spiritually: honesty with
ourselves and with God.

Popularity at Davidson requires
maturity—the maturity of mental
ability, the maturity required of
leadership, the maturity which gen.
erates self-confidence without con.
ceit, and the maturity of the spirit
which gives God his proper place
in guiding the actions of men,

Popularity at Davidson requires
sincerity—the sincerity of friend.
ship—not election-day friendship,
but lasting friendship, the sincere
desire to give your best to your
task without thought of prestige,
popularity or power,

Last, but far from least, pop.
ularity requires some indefina-
ble something which might well
be termed “it,” and though
“$v” is almost impossible to de.
fine, it is often the deciding
factor in an election. Call it
friendliness, leadership ability,
lack of enemies, ability to get
along with people; almost any
name will do, but the average
candidate for office at Davidson
is lost without it.

The whole point is, gentlemen,
that no matter what election system
is used, the really important thing
is that the best man get elected.
And though the election may be
a “popularity contest,” if it’s the
right kind of popularity, so much
the better.

Coeds Challenge
Our Masculinity
And Ruggedness

Dear Editor: Before entering
college we had great expectations
concerning the college man, Need.
less to say we were gravely dis-
appointed.

. What has happened to the
rugged, outdoor man? He is no
longer rugged. He eats soft foods,
sleeps too much, and considers the
slightest physical exertion too much
for him. He is never outdoors, his
social life being centered around
the parlor,

An energetic game of chess or a
snappy bull session is all the exer-
cise he gets .. . One glance at his
apparel would make you doubt
whether he is even a man.

Masculine individuality has be-
come a mirage. It seems that every-
thing he does is inspired by the
group to which he belongs. His
aims in life are determined by what
others have decided to be worth.
while goals. He no longer has the
power to think and decide for him-
self,

As an example, when he is on a
date, the girl must be prepared
to decide what movie they will
see, what they will do afterwards,
and she must plan to spend the
evening entertaining the man, who
has lost the power to take an active
part in conversation.

. » Obviously something has
to be done. Here is a challenge to
the men of Syracuse University. A
few months ago you denounced us
gicls for wearing slacks, and jeans,
etc, We would be only too glad to
give them back to you, if you'd
begin to earn your pants.

FEMALES WANTED
Four students of Iowa State Uni-
versity placed the following want
ad in the paper: “Wanted—Four fe.

«male companions for Varieties. Call

‘Joe’ Club 201.”

“Joe” received 12 phone calls,
11 of them within a day after ad
had appeared. But he was only par.
tially satisfied with the ad’s re-
sponse. “After all,” he said, “there
age almost 2,000 women on the
campus, And we only got 12 calls.”

S| peppy

Bas 2EERSEES22 078582 S28 558272, OE

Student enrollment at 818 ap.
proved colleges and. universities
throughout the nation show, as of
November 1, an attendance of ‘1,-
275,404 full-time students, with 489,-
133 additional part.time students
for a grand total of 1,764,537, ac-
cording to the thirty-second annual
statistical study conducted by Dr,
Raymond Walters, president of the
University of Cincinnati,

Contrasted with the fall enroll-
ment of 1950, the study discloses a
decrease of 11.4 per cent in full.
time students; an increase of 4.6
per cent in part-time students; and
in total enrollment, a decrease of
7.8 per cent.

In full-time students, universities
under public control have a de-
crease of 11.8 per cent; those un-
der private control, 11 per cent
less; independent colleges of arts
and sciences, 10.5 per cent less; in-
dependent technology schools, 10.6
per cent less (although their wo-
men students have increased 1.8
per cent); independent teachers col-
leges, 14,5 per cent less,

The over-all 1951 decline in
freshmen was 6.5 per cent, the de-
crease for men being 8.2 per cent
and for women, 3.5 per cent.

The study reveals a disturbing

College Statistics Poll Shows
Present Enrollment Drop

decline of 11.2 per cent in fresh-,

man men this fall as compared
with last fall’s enrollment in four
broad fields of study: liberal arts
and science, commerce (business
administration), agriculture, and
teachers college (education). “Most
alarming of all, in view of the
need for teachers in the nation’s
elementary and secondary schools,
is the calamitous decline in young
men and young women entering
education courses, Dr. Walters em-
phasized,

The freshman engineering enroll.
ment showed a gain of 9,2 per cent
over last year’s “toboggan drop”
when erroneous statements were
publicized that the engineering field
was overcrowded. Present enroll-
ment of engineering students is “far
below the technological needs of the
country.”

Commenting on the widespread
freshman decreases, Dr.

fewer children in the nation’s mid
dle-income group, industrial an

business job opportunities at highs
pay, uncertainty as to Selective
Service and as to the general plans

| for the future, and heavier tuition

and other college expenses.

Non-Segregated Campus Dances
May Be Enforced At U. ot N. C.

The University of North Caro-
lina may have a law suit on its
hands, if it continues its policy of
all-white dances on campus. The
National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People says
it hopes student pressure will force
the administration to reverse its
policy; otherwise, the association
will go to court.

“It is the policy of NAACP to
see that Negro students enjoy the
full privileges of being a student,”
said the NAACP attorney, The dis-
pute arose when the law school as-
sociation announced its plans to
hold an unsegregated spring dance.
Five Negro students are members
of the law school association.

A similar case occurred there last

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:

fall when Negro students were
given segregated seats at the foot-
ball stadium. Student pressure later
forced the administration to allow
unrestricted seating.

The law school association voted
82 to 63 in favor of the non-segre-
gated dance. Said the Daily Tar
Heel in its news story: “Law
school students yesterday decided
that a student is still a student, re-
gardless of the color of his skin,
and opened the door for a possible
bi-racial dance , . ."

Ta a Big Six basketball game re-
cently the referee did the unheard
of: He admitted he had made a
mistake and actually apologized to
the players.

Simmons Advocates Excused Vesper Cuts
For Off Campus Church Attendance

Editor, The Davidsonian
Davidson, N. C.
Dear Sir:

Just before exams, when of
course I should have had my mind
on my studies, an idea crossed
my mind as to an addition to the
system for Vesper cuts. Knowing
that the probable reasons for deny-
ing us the addition that I speak of
would be based on the purpose of
Vespers, I tried not to rush blindly
into this matter and so got a state-
ment from Dr, Cunningham as to
the purpose of Vespers, which fol-
lows: “The purpose of Vespers at
Davidson College is to provide an
opportunity for corporate worship
by the student body, faculty, and
friends of the college at their regu-
lar time each week, with the preach-
ing of the Gospel by the ablest
preachers of the various denomi-

nations for the inspiration, instruc-
tion, guidance, and growth of all
related to the institution.”

After having thought over the
purpose of Vespers as Dr. Cunning.
ham sees it, I feel that the regularity
and the corporateness of our wor-
ship would not be disturbed by the
following addition to our Vesper
cut system: that we not only get
the cuts that we have at present
but also add another type cut which
would allow us to go to a vesper
service at some other place of wor-
ship other than our own school
Vesper, This would allow boys who
were dating at Queens on Sunday
evening to avoid rushing back up
here to school plus the avoidance of
so many trips back and forth to
Charlotte. The Charlotte-Davidson
highway is too dangerous to have
us speeding back and forth to make
Vespers. Some might say that we

ought to leave Charlotte in plenty
of time to make Vespers without
speeding back up to Davidson, but
let us be realistic and admit that
we will be rushed the majority of
the time and especially if we eat
our supper here at Davidson and
then go to Charlotte to pick a date
up.

Only recently a boy in the senior
class who is on the Student Council
told me that he had to miss going
to Sunday afternoon Communion
with his parents because of a lack
of Vesper cuts, Should this boy
miss going to such a service with
the group which he should be
close to—hi$ family? There need
not be more than two of this type

cut allotted per semester to each
student to fill this definite need.

Sincerely,
CHARLIE SIMMONS.

Walters.
suggests these principal vs mide
{

*
