PAGE TWO .

T

HE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1952

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

Associate Editors

eEreeTereTerrrerereererr rere

Shelly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,

George McMurray

Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,

John Ottley

Art Editor—Don Mahy Photographer—Andrew Simmons
Sports Editor—Dick Liles Feature Editor—Mike Myers

City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager

wawee co ceecsce

Managing Editors

Boo Northcutt
Jack Hobson

Circulation Manager .-------- owen nen nnene Bob Poston
Collection Manager .......--------- .-------------- Bill Minter
Subscriptions Manager .------------ -- ------+--- Preston Chaney

nee
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Winner Dole Will Find That Will
Without Flesh Futile In This Loop

Signing on Bill Dole to skipper Davidson's 1952 grid out-
tit has indeed put a good man at the helm, but the question re-
mains——which way is our football ship of state sailing?

Certainly the builder of winning clubs at Fayetteville High
and ECTC has a tough course chartered: for him in his first
year on Southern Conference seas. To carry on the nautical
analogy, while Davidson is not necessarily the graveyard of
coaches (to wit: Bill Story, Charlie Jamerson, and Crowell
Little, all of whom have left coaching to enter another field
directly from Davidson) it has not of late been known for
smooth sailing.

The Davidson dilemna. as brought out in these columns
some weeks ago, buffeted the boat about to the end that it is
difficult to see exactly where we are heading. Examine this point
At least a dozen key men will be missing from next year's
roster, and if the Southern Conference goes along with the loop
presidents in banning freshmen from varsity competition this
coming fall, our position will indeed be imperiled. Junior col-
lege transfers and recruits from the student body will be our
only source of material.

A lean year would be understandable if a strong frosh club
were in the building. But will Dole be given sufficient where-
withal to build and do the job that is expected of him, or will
he still be givert the funds to do only half the job while ex-
pected to do the full ‘job?

The college has set the schedule on a level behind which we
lag competitively 50% or better. Dole is self-expressedly a win-
ning man. One or the other must give. For even a winner like
Dole. no matter how strong and willing the spirit, if you’re
not matching that foe in flesh pound for pound, you're still
going to be on the short end of the scores.

Sure, We're Out For Blood...

In this Spring a young man’s fancy should fondly turn
to thoughts of blood. ,

Davidson College is again being given the opportunity
to display its willingness to help the wounded who cannot help
themselves. It requires but little effort to give a small amount
of one’s time and energy to help a fellow human being stay
alive.

From the capitalistic point of view. it is an investment
which can bring an almost unbelievable and unsurpassable rate
of return—a little of your blood can make one less white cross.
From the personal view, the. time may well come when your
. life may depend on the willingness of those back home away
from the hell of the battlefield to donate blood. And from the
greatest viewpoint of all, service, it would be tragic indeed
- should American soldiers die from lack of blood due to the
apathy of their more fortunate fellow citizens.

Nexe Wednesday and Thursday each Davidson student will
display either his interest or apathy. Though we have a record
to be justly proud of—500 donations in a single day, which
holds the state and regional record—an analysis shows us that
comparatively speaking over one whole class section did not
donate last December.

Blood is urgently needed. Let us answer the call with a re-
sponse greater than even that of last December.

Give a little to gain a lot. —-P.G.K.

Proposed Election Amendments

STUDENT BODY ELECTION PROCEDURE))
ARTICLE TI.— NOMINATIONS

(Article III to be deleted and the following inserted instead)

Section 1. All nominations for officers elected by the Student
Body, except nominations for editors of the publications, shall come from
the floor of a Student Body meeting. All nominations for class officers
shalt be made from the floor at a class meeting.

Section 2. The day on which nominations are to be made shall be
announced at least one week in advance.

Section 3. Each student nominated to run for an office shall be
required to signify willingness to be a cadidate for that office by signing
a statement to that effect at a time and place designaed by the President
of the Student Body.

Secion 4. Three candidates for the editorship of each of the stu-
dent body publications shal! be selected by the Publications Roard from
lists submitted to the Board by the staffs of the various publications.
From these candidates the student body shall elect the editors of The
Davidsonian and Scripts ‘n Pranks. The editor of Quips and Cranks shall
be elected by the rising Senior Class.

ARTICLE IV.—ELECTIONS

Section 6: to be deleted.

Section 7: to be deleted.

Section 6: To be replaced by the following:
“Voting procedure in all elections in the Student Body shall be
determined by the Student Council, and administered by the
Election Board.”

Section 7. To be replaced by the following:
“The three candidates for the editorship of each of the three
student body publications shall be required to make in chapel

(Continued On Page Four)

SCOPFERS AnO
Penton SKNERS

‘

US LAST WORDS: “LL PROVE THAT THE IVY ISNT ALL THATS &.”
HOLDING UP RUMPLE.”

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Ingram Replaces Thor Johnson
As World’s Foremost Conductor

Art has its Michelangelo, litera-
ture, its Shakespeare, science its
Einstein and philosophy its Neitzche
but on the musical rrunt, a new
Star bas risen. Toscannini, Walter.
Metropoulus and Thor Johnson may
have achieved some smalf fame jin
their little worlds, but they all must
pay homage to one of the greatest
names among contemporary sym-
phony conductors, T. C. Ingram.

Having recently returned from a
triumphant tour of the Eastern
states, Ingram has finally shown
the world the talent behind so hum-
ble and unassuming a face. T. C.,
as his conservatory friends affec-
tionately call him, was mobbed
throughout his trip, while critics up
and down the coast were rendered
speechless at his appearances.

It can be safely said, in the heat
of enthusiasm, that no conductor
has ever before received the com-
ments that greeted the modest
young artist. Upon first looking
into Ingram’s humor, it seemed to
this critic a major crime that he
had insisted on spending so many
years in comparative obscurity pre-
paring for his debut. But these
years can easily be dispatched, now
that T. C. has given his artistry
to the world.

With some very serious and
well-founded qualms about insuf-
ficient instrumentation and poor
musicianship among the local sym-
phony groups in Baltimore, Phila-
delphia and New York, Ingram
wisely secured as his accompdnist
a travelling organization, the Da-
vidson College Concert, I think it
is, Band, noted for never having
played in the same town twice.

The artist, whose American villa
is in the Piedmont section of North
Carolina, preceded the band to all
his dates in a_ sleek forty-foot

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

limousine that commanded attention
wherever it was parked. After a
brief stopover owing to bad weather
in Roanoke, Virginia, Ingram pro-
ceeded on to New York, where a
tumultuous reception had been
staged for him during the morning
of January first.

T. C.'s Manhattan concert was
like the others, unprecedented, but
was marred by one annoying. in-
cident. At a banquet held in T.C.’s
honor at the Waldorf-Astoria by
music society, Lauritz Melchior, a
New York singer, eyed a piece of
cherry .pie on Ingram’s plate. It
was the day after the Saints and
Sinners banquet and the Waldorf
was serving left-overs.

The pie had naturally been given
to the honored guest, but the head-
waiter had not taken special notice
of this fact. Melchior coveted that
piece of pie. He called the head-
waiter, named Bill, over to him
and.asked why T. C. should be given
the best dessert. The headwaiter
thought a moment, and then said,
“Why don’t we ask the chef what
to do about it?” This was all right
with Lauritz, so they asked the
French chef, named Tom.

Tom, the chef, said that his na-
tural impulse would be to throw
Melchior into the garbage can; this
made the singer mad. Not only
did Melchior leave the hotel, but
be persuaded the company he works
for, the Metropolitan Opera, to
leave town too, They did this with-
out much persuasion, because busi-
ness had been falling off since
T. C.’s arrival anyway.

When Ingram, having eaten the
cherry pie and feeling very happy
indeed, heard about the incident,
he immediately cancelled all of his
appearances in Carnegie, Diamond
Horseshoe and Town Halls respec-

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOX:
Miss Thompson Criticized For Anti-Semitism Talk Here

Mr. Bill White, Editor
The Davidsonian -
Dear Bill:

Enclosed is a letter from Dr,
Raymond M. Wheeler of Charlotte,
together with a copy of his letter
to Miss Dorothy Thompson. I think
you might well like to publish it.

Sincerely yours,
SAMUEL R SPENCER, JR.

Miss Dorothy Thompson
2327 East 48th Street
New York, New York
Dear Miss Thompson:

It was my privilege last Wed-
nesday night, along with a group
from Charlotte, to hear your lecture
at Davidson College on Palestine
and the Middle East. As a previous
long time admirer of your intellect
and integrity, I was greatly dis-
turbed by several impressions I
receivéd from your speech. Being
neither Jew nor Arab, I believe my
opinions may be objective and I
write you in the sincere hope that
you will give this letter thoughtful
consideration.

Unfortunately, your effort to
make the Palestine issues purely

black and white resulted in great
oversimplification of a complex
problem involving many shades of
gray. Your approach was anything
but “unpartisan” and it was a little
painful to hear you use the term
so frequently. Your facts were un-
doubtedly correct and my accusa-
tion of partisanship involves no
question of your reportorial accura-
cy. My reasons are less easily doc-
umented but include such things as
your choice of points of emphasis,
the relative importance which you
attached to various pieces of in-
formation, the arrival at incorrect
conclusions from literally correct
facts—indeed, the entire emotional
context in which you placed the
factual information of your lecture.

No one can deny, on moral
grounds, the injustice of the dis-
possession of a people by another
people, even when the trespassers
are involved in a fight for surz
vival and have been given no other
choice by the so-called Christian
world. However, the tragedy of
such a situation is the fact that
it exists because man is not yet
recovered from an age old sickness

—his unwillingness to live and let
live, to accept a man on the basis

ively and embarked impetuously for
Philadelphia. This was on Sunday
night. He spent Monday looking
for Melchior and his cronies; he
even gave a concert on Tuesday
with hopes of smoking them out.
Early on Wednesday morning he
heard that they had stolen away to
Baltimore, no sooner had he heard
the news than he was on the trail.

At Baltimore he found Melchior
dickering for the use of Baltimore’s
newest concert hall, conveniently
twelve miles from anything on the
Goucher campus. In his dashing,
Continental manner, Ingram tore
up the contract, raised his baton
with his handkerchief high in the
air and claimed the campus in the
name of Davidson and art in gen-
eral.

Revenge was sweet. Melchior
saw that he was beaten, drew his
fountain pen, handed it to T.C. and
walked slowly out backwards, bow-
ing. The Metropolitan that night
was forced to make the best out of
what they found in dingy downtown

' Baltimore.

Goucher was perhaps Ingram's
finest . performance. Nothing, of
course, need be said. about his con-
ducting. What is more important is
the way T.C. unselfishly asked
James Christian Pfohl, who had
accompanied the band on the tour,
to conduct a couple of numbers.

Mr. Pfohl was obviously pleased by
this gesture and the band cooperated
to make it a memorable occasion.

It was an honor for the Davidson
Band to have been chosen by T. C.
Ingram to accompany him. He
drove them night and day, it is true,
but there wasn’t a member who
didn’t feel that it was worth it, if
only to be with T. C.

of his true worth rather than ac-
cording to his race or religious be-
liefs, To conduct a calculated cam-
paign to label any nation or group
as responsible for what appears to
me to be the sin of society, is td do
as great an injustice to that group
as was done to-the Arabs.

You may protest, and sincerely
so, that it was not your intent to
point up the Jews as the primary
culprit. I remember your rebuke of
Britain and the United States.
However, your reference to the
“Jewish vote,” whatever that is;
your undue emphasis on the Jewish
role in the inevitable atrocities of
the war; the absence of any ex-
pression of sympathy for the predi-
cament of the Jew; the absence of
any indication that you understood
the more complex and obscure is-
sues involved; the expression at
times of what appeared to be actual
antipathy toward the Zionists—all
these things could be interpreted
only as evidence of your belief that
the Jew is responsible for what is
admittedly a deeply disturbing sit-
uation.

Whether intended or not, the
overtones of anti-Semitism were

there, and coming from you, they

NAT DANIEL:

Student Government Awakens
A Challenge To United Action

The present Student Govern-
ment deserves some commendation
for the work it has done in recent
weeks in response to severe criti-
cism, especially concerning the
election system, from the Student
Body. It took its cues well, and
began carrying out a program
which has alleviated many aspects
of the Student Government where
changes were long overdue. This
isn’t saying, of course, that the
task is complete—it will never be
completed, but it is worthwhile to
note that though the present gov-
ernment has its weaknesses, it did
respond to the challenge of the
critics much better than many of
the critics thentselves would have
predicted.

By the very nature of our insti-
tution, the Davidson Student Gov-
ernment is so limited in the scope of
its activities that unless it is given
a nudge every now and then, it
‘may be reduced to nothing more
than 2 pseudo-court which carries
out limited judiciary action in con-
nection with the enforeement of the
Honor System But in the past some
governments have risen above this
category, and have attempted to
carry on constructive projects with-
in its limitations, and we believe
that the response which the present
government made in answering the
students’ challenges places it in
this latter, more desirable cate-

gory. It’s far from perfect, but it's
still good. So when you talk about
what the Student Government isn't
doing, remember that it can only
perform those functions which are
permitted it by the Administration,
Faculty, and Trustees of Davidson
College.

Now there will be some com-
plaints to the effect that the Stu-
dent Government didn’t carry out
all or enough of the proposals
which were originally presented.
These, however, will probably come
from a minority of students. Most
of us will agree that the steps
which have already been taken are
adequate for the present, and though
some more minor improvements
may be necessary at this time, we
might be wiser to tread carefully
and intelligently without being
lackadasical. If we went hog-wild
and installed many radical meas-
ures, future Davidsonians might dis-
cover that we sacrificed some of
the good points of the more con-
servative attitude merely for the
sake of changing things. We can
be pioneers of progress, but we
should not forget that progress is
founded on the experiences of the
past, and that we must retain those
aspects of the past which are still
applicable and useful in the present.

It might be well to note here
that the Student Council did not
pass the points contained in the

petition presented this morning.
‘They were voted down by an ele-
ment which felt it wiser to retain
the present system. We can forgive
them for the point of view, for a
wise politician supports the system
under which he was elected to of-
fice. Then, too, the vofe was fairly
close (exact figures are not known
to the writer) and one or two mem-
bers who might have voted for the
platform speeches were absent
from the meeting.

It would seem that the action of
the Student Council in recent weeks
presents a three-fold challenge. It
challenges the present Council to
continue to respond as it has in the
recent past. [t challenges the Stu-
dent Body to dedicate fuller support
to that Student Council, and to elect
those who will ever strive to con-
summate the program already un-
der way. Jt is a challenge to those
who will be elected to pledge to
create a constructive place for their
government within the college life.
Only through the United efforts of
the institutions within the govern-
ment, the united effort of elected
members of those institutions, and
the support and participation of
each individual student can we ever
approach the achievement of an
ever brightening dream: A better

Davidson.

“Do Missions Serve Modern Needs?”

(Fifth in the series of ques-
tions students asked about mis-
sions. This summary made by
John Gibbs.)

As part, of a contrasting back/
ground for the dynamic Greek spirit
of Fifth Cent. B. C., Edieth Hamil-
ton observed: “India has gone the
way of the things that are not seen
until the things that are seen have
become invisible.” The same obser-
vation has been made often of the
Christian Church, at times with
some justification.

But there is another side of the
picture. Confidence in immortality
is not synonomus with contempt
for present existence. Edward Gib-
bon to the contrary. Rather, Chris-
tians “. .. are forever being chal-
lenged to abandon all things for
the sake of God; and forever being
sent back into the world to teach
and practice all things that have
been commanded them. (Christ
and Culture, Richard Niebuhr) The
crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus
Christ did not take place in heaven
or in some remote planet or in
some world of ideas, but it took
place within our time, our history,
our world. So we must not seek
escape but rather attempt under
His leadership to be that redeem-
ing community among men. by
making the Church a community
of hope, action, and of obedience.
“Faith exists only .in a communi-
ty of selves in the presence of a
transcendent cause .. .” (Christ

and Culture). “Behold, the dwell-

ing of God is with men. He will
dwell with them, and they shall be
His people, and God himself will
be with them.” (Rev. 21.3). It is

were shocking to me. I have no
doubt that such an impression was
left with many people that night,
and I fear that people who pre-
viously had no feeling toward the
Jew, left with prejudice in their
hearts. You may have helped the
Arab cause that night, but you
have weakened the cause of de-
mocracy.

Pease accept these criticisms in
the spirit in which they are given.

Yours sincerely,

RAYMOND M. WHEELER,
M.D.

FACULTY HOMES
NICKNAMED

Faculty members at Davidson
take pride in their homes, Many
of the homes have names, for ex-
ample:

McGavocks: “Rebel Dell.”
Davidsons: Hurricane Hill.”
Erwins: “The Arches.”
Shewmakes: ‘“Sunlit Hill.”
Schencks: “Stoney Broke.”
Johnstons: “Dogwood Dale.”

this for which. we pray in our
Lord’s Prayer: “Thy kingdom
come, Thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven.”

The following passages from an
SVM pamphlet, describing quali-
fications of a missionary, indicate
that the Christian Mission is in-
deed contemporaneous in method
and out iook:

“The missionary needs more
physical stamina than the person
who remains at home. The physi-
cal tests for foreign services are
more rigorous than those given by
the Army or the Navy... If the
missionary isn’t sound physically,
he may break down, If he isn’t
stable emotionally, his colleagues
may break down. You don’t have
to be a nervous wreck to drive your
companions to distraction. It’s not
popular to be ‘queer’ on the mis-
sion field.

“The missionary’s mind must be
alert. . . The world is full of
tensions: racial, economic, political,
religious. A candidate for Christian
service abroad must be sensitive to
these conflicts. An attitude of racial
or national or intellectual superi-
ority disqualifies a student for
foreign service.

“The missionary must know his
own religion; its Book, its history,
its founder . . . One missionary
wrote, “Woe is me if I preach not
the Gospel.” That deals with mo-
tive. We want compelled men, Your
reasons must be unselfish, based
upon your love of God and the
desire to serve your neighbors, Un-
less you gow express this love and
engage in this service for those
across the street, you should not
plan to undertake it for those across
the world.”

Until recently two-thirds of the
modern hospitals in all China were
mission hospitals. Dr. R. J. Mc-
Mullen, formerly president of the
thirteen American Christian Col- «
leges in China, says that after the
First Revolution in 1910, when Sun
Yat-Sen forbade the teaching of
classical Confucianism, the Chris-
tian mission schools were the only
ones who were courageous enough
to demand that it be continued. It
is in such instances as these, when
missionaries live in the warp and
woof of a people’s existence, that
they most effectively witness the
Gospel. Gadgets are not God, nor
are they necessary for the Gospel.
So, it is best to leave one’s native
culture behind when he speaks of
Christ to a foreign people of
different ways. By this, we mean
that the most effective missionary
is the one who can utilize every
resource at hand for the glory of
Christ and do so without trying
to impose his own culture in an
effort to make way for Christ.

God makes a new beginning for
man by making man begin with
God. The Christian mission is to
persuade men to begin with God:
in education, in all sorts of social
problems Cheaith, relief, illiteracy),
in international relations, in com-
munity life. The Christian mission
of conversion is one of a complete
turn-about to God in the lives of
farmers, factory workers, jungle
chiefs, of men in every labor that
claims the attention of man. It is
therefore incumbent upon the
Church to serve in modern ways
to men of modern days, lest any
man failing in whatsoever place
be left behind by a Gospel which
was spoken in unknown tongues.

Mother Nature Sends Flowers
To Congratulate Springtime

By DOUG MAULIN

Once again old mother nature
has had her way? With one slight
movement of her magical wand,
she has set these Southern states
into a paradise of bright sunshine,
blooming flower, and spring fever.

No doubt about it, spring is here,
and if you don’t believe it, just
look around. The sun is a brilliant
disc of warmness; the flowers are
blooming forth with various colors
and perfumes; and over in front
of Main, some poor unfortunate
young lady listens to a lad, hyp-
notized with the beauty of spring,
whispering sweet nothings into her
ear. Just listen to him:

“Darling, say something soft and
sweet to me.”

“Anything for you, my dear.”

“Darling, say something soft and
sweet to me.”

“Custardpie.”

And then, spring has come to
the classroom. Here and there,
dotted all over the classroom, some-
one looks out of the window and
yawns sleepily, wishing he were out
basking in the warm sunshine, or
over at the tennis courts playing

a good game. The professor ex-
plains a formula, but no one hears
it, because the little blue bird out-
side has chosen this opportunity
to exercise his golden voice of song,
and yet he sounds like your room-
mate and his morning gargle. An-
other class, and another hour of
pure drudgery. Everyone is wonder-
ing what everyone else did during
the spring holidays.

But we are back once again to
the young lovers, still sitting on
the bench in front of Main.

“Darling, say you love me.”

“What?”

“Darling, say you love me.”

“Say what?”

any you love me! Say it!”

a t" .

Classes are finally - dismissed,
and everyone is free to do as he
pleases, that is, everyone but those
who have labs. It's spring, and you
feel energetic, so you play a little
tennis, All at once you trip, and
bang, there goes your shin, and
then your head.

—The Furman Hornet.
