THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF -.....-..----...-.---- w.- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER .....-....---- pecnnneeee-e Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR -7...........---------------- John Ottley
Associate Editors -------. -------- Brinkley, Harter, Hope,
Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Hassel, J. M. Moore, Owens
wan wnn nen cnc enn ne sew wnneen one ees Dick * Roper
Feature Editor—T..A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.

Managing Editors
Sports Editor
News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

Photographer --.---~~~...-------~----- 20 ------------ == Simons
Assistant Business Manager -.-..---------~------------- Poston
Advertising Manager ...--~----.....-..-.--------------- Hasty
Circulation Manager --....-.--------------------- ... Nicholson
Collection Manager -....---------...--------------- Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Little We Can Do For Amputees
But Can We Afford To Do Less

There is not much that you can do for a boy of eight who
has lost his hand. There is not much that you can do for a
veteran who has grasped the significance of the term. ‘quadruple
amputation.” or, “basket case.” There is nothing that you can
say which will calm the jangled nerves of a man rendered sud-
denly helpless . . . there is no word to erase the bitter taste of
helplessness that comes to one whose bandaged nubs render
impossible even the rudiments of personal care or habitual func-
tions.

There is nothing that you can say to a person who has
been suddenly bereft of the use of his limb (or limbs). There is,
in fact, no way for those of us who have hands and feet at our
disposal even to imagine what it would be like to be unable to
step out of bed in the morning or feed ourselves at the break-
fast table. There is. however, something we can do. It is not
much... it wilf not blot out the memory of pain . , . it will
not restore that which is lost. . . but it will aid in giving a
touch of hope to the hopeless.

There are those who are giving their time, their energy and
their skill to the restoring of purpose to the lives of those blasted
by the destruction of war. They can perform no miracles. They
can only smooth the path to rehabilitated lives and rejuvenated
personalities. They do it with scrap metal, trained fingers. and
occupational therapy. More important than that . . . they do it
because of, and by means of, a loving spirit for human beings in
distress.

What can you do for maimed bodies and tangled lives?
Very little. But can anyone refuse to do what little he can do?

We have an opportunity to do a littl. We can help
furnish part of the hard cash that will be necessary to carry
out a program of aid to the maimed in Korea. It is just a small
thing to give a few dollars, but multiply it by the love of man
for man and invest it in human lives and the net result should
be sufficient for even the most hard-headed business major on
the campus. ,

We can do only a little. But can any of us do any less
than that.—D.H.M.

Good Government Cannot

Be Bought With A Ballot

Another election has been relegated to history. January 20
will be our cue to pull ourselves back into our own little shells
for another four years as far as politics go. Oh, world problems
are interesting at times and scandals catch our attention, but we
can’t let ordinaty, plain old. common routine politics interfere
with our everyday business or thought.

That sounds silly, but what's even sillier is that so many
people do just that. During an election year we get all excited
and bothered over foreign policy, corruption. righgs. issues ad
infinitum, but the rest of that four-year interval we're com-
pletely oblivious to the workings of the government or the issues.
We're ready to scream about incompetent public officials when
a story hits the front page, but it’s strictly “who cares’’ until
then. Bad laws and bad officials go unnoticed until they hurt
someone.

It doesn’t seem to occur to us that honest government of-
ficials just as honest businessmen can’t succeed without our back-
ing. Business loses over a billion dollars a year to its own
swindlers: local politicians sell influence by the barrel: every-
body tries to cheat the tax’ collector; but except for being against
other's sins, we care little for the good and do little about the
bad.

What we are failing so miserably to see is that we get exact-
ly the kind of government we deserve. If we're interested in good
government once every four years, that’s just what we'll get—
good government once every four years. If all we bother to do
as citizens is to vote, all the politicians will have to do as public
servants will be to get elected. If we're swayed by sentiment
and emotion, office seekers will give us the greatest show on
earth. We get just what we ask for—ours is a representative
democracy.

The citizen who takes the attitude that one more coal on
or off the fire won't matter is making an ash of himself in more
ways than one. Corruption, like a tree, gets its nourishment from
the roots. Electing new men on top is only half the job; we fail
in our purpose unless we elect ourselves to the office of active
citizens whose respect for government will not condone “honest
graft” in any case and whose interest is alive every day of the
year.

Even here at Davidson we broke through our homogeneity
long enough to participate along with the 60 million who voted
November 4. But that was easy; the test begins now. We can't
convince anybody we want good government unless we continue
to bear active witness to the fact, unless we take seriously the
responsibility to see that politics is good, all the time. Democracy
is built on individuals and bad government will operate only
with our consent. If we don’t care, we deserve anything that re-
sults from that carelessness. Casting a vote is but the down pay-
ment on integrity in government; it is not ours until we pay
with interest. —G.A.B.

Dr. Quincy Washington
planned to burn a copy of the re-
vised edition of the History. But
Linstead he tore out the page that
bore the inscripion from the Dec-
laration of Independence in which
the words “Life, Liberty and the
pursuit of Happiness” had been
substituted for “Life, Liberty and
the Purfuit of Happinefs.” Frank-
lin delivered an hour-long lecture
in which he expounded the reas-
ons for his attack on the revised
History. Following this he dis-
played a copy of the History to
the students gathered in the Fimp-

The high-school mentor ripped
the paper covering off the History
and on the cloth covers were the
words, “A Bundle of Fraudf.”

Massive Audience ‘

The scheduled: ceremony had ex-
pected to attract a full classroom.
The auditorium, which accommo-
dates about 200, was about one-
tenth full.

Each student-body member was
given a flag with thirteen stars and
stripes and Beard’s Basic History
as Franklin went outside the
schoolhouse, ripped a page from
the History and set it afire.

Franklin described the revised
History as “the mafter ftroke of
H. L. Mencken.” He added the
History is “a fcheme of the mod-
erniftf to make the Dectaration of
Independenfe and the illegible child

One's first impression of London
could easily be how much further
would this place have fallen if they
did not have the support of Scotch
whiskey, the Presbyterian Church,
and Canadian wheat? To be a
place with so little left the people
appear to be the busier and get less
done than any place in Europe. Of
course what little there is remain-
ing the people will not mind tell-
ing you about in their usual ego-
tistical manner, while in the same
breath belittling America and
Americans.

With these pleasing thoughts
and words still running through
your mind you descend from the
train of unknown vintage only to
climb into a taxi of pre-which war
no one knows. So off to your lodg-
ing and the waiting hot cup of tea.
But why should we Americans
complain for a vacation we'll be
able to live plenty cheap at less
than two “quid” a day and see
how the “rougher element” lives
besides.

ton Ftation high school auditorium. | !

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO

Dont Hoard Your

WA BOTTLE.
SypPoaT THE RED CROSS BLood Dawe /

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

To ARMF! Ye Book-Burning
Brethern; Keep the Faith Facred

T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

FIMPFON FTATION, N. D., Nov. 30 (AF)—A pro-
testing high school history teacher ripped a page out of the re-
vised standard edition of Charles A. Beard’s Basic History of the
United States tonight and burned it while his shivering ninth-
graders looked on outside the schoolhouse.

Franklin had announced he

of an illiterate man.”

Showing up about twenty min-
utes late at the school, Franklin
centered most of his lecture on a
passage from Thomas _ Paine:
“Thefe are the timef that try men’f
foulf.””

He told the students that the
editors of the revised History said
it “came out of the inevitability of
etomological modification, I fay it
came out of the inevitability of
Fin.” He explained that a frontis-
piece reported the editors as say-
ing the changes in spelling resulted
from a current growing usage of
“s" and “ss” instead of “f" and
“fs” as was common in the 17th
and 18th centuries.

Refers to Happinefs

Several times during his lengthy
lecture, Franklin made reference to
the passage in the Declaration in
which the “purfuit of Happinefs”
was changed.

He contends the new revised His-
tory attempts to deny Thomas Jef-
ferson’s erudition and extensive
scholarship. The new revision sub-
stituted, among: others, the words
“these, pursuit and Happiness” for
“thefe, purfuit and Happinefs,” in
the Declaration passage. The true
and orginal Declaration, he de-
clared, reads: “We hold thefe
truthf to be felf-evident,—that all
men are created equal; that they

DAVIDSONIAN_ABROAD:

Student Views Starving City, Fallen Nobles;
Glad To Know U.S. Hasn’ t Much In Common

By DONALD BAUCOM

The life of a tourist in London
is somewhat different from else-
where in Europe. Here one can un-
derstand the curses which are fre-
quently thrown at you from the
locals. Here too will be found none
of the gala night life nor excellent
food. Instead one suffers acutely
from the “pea-soup” fogs and
dreadful hot tea (incidentally about
the only mode of heat now found
in England). The eager attention
given to listening for the sounding
of Big Ben is purely to see how
much nearer you are to a meal.
When at last the happy hour
chimes and everyone goes dashing
-~but to what—-no, not a fine Con-
tinental Restaurant but only to the
nearby tea-room. In this den of
starving human beings will be found
only sweets and that horrible orien-
tal concoction—Tea.

Perhaps one will grow curious
why so many people carry umbrel.
las on even the most beautiful days
in London. This was one thing
which aroused my curiosity until

oo MANY

are endowed by their Creator with
fertain unalicnable Rightf; that
among thefe are Life, Liberty
and the purfuit-of Happinefs”

He said there is a rising tide in
Fimpfon Ftation in support of his
stand, “Thifs rifing tide,” he added,
“ifs likely to blow the lid off thif
whole rotton mefs.”

Widespread Support

Franklin said he had received
numerous letters, telephone calls,
sly looks, May baskets, and tcle-
grams from throtighout Fimpton
Ftation and its neighboring city,
Fycamore Fircle, most of which
sided with him.

Officials of all major historical
societies have leveled amusement
at Franklin, but he shrugged it off
with the statement “they cannot
fpeak for all hiftorianf.”

Franklin pulled owt of the Na-
tional Historical Society in 1885
when he became engaged “in a
fight with modernifm.” He con-
tends he is old-fashioned in his.
torical scholarship. His classes, he
added, “are old-fafioned in the
trueft fenfe.”

At the age of 13, Franklin organ-
ized the Fimpfon Ftation history
department and taught there for
fifty years. He has also held classes
in the other North Dakota: com-
munities of Fycamore Fircle, Faga-
more Fenter and Beloit, returning
to Fimpfon Station in 1945 from
Beloit, where, he says, he “found
no real crifif, or prefsing need for
my fervifsef.””

Clenching a matchbook tightly in
his hand, Franklin added as the
bell rang, “Don't kid yourfelf; .I
ain’t gonna quit until I’m finifed.”

one day walking unguarded by
such a device I walked foolishly
across Trafalgar Square with its
thousands of pigeons hovering
overheard.
By night London takes on some
(Continued On Page Four)

Give | /

... your blood
will ea

voir @ men er
a friend

your Ol bor... «

GIVE THROUGH
YOUR RED CROSS

THE FREE LANCE:

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1952

They’re Hitting Nail On Head
At Union But "Maybe Too Fast

We wonder how without the use
of the an/ratc-35 radio the mighty
swarm of workers who daily black-
en the walls of the student union
is controlled.

It is encouraging to read of Jabor
demands on the newsfronts of our
nation and yet to realize with a
certain warmth that here we have
men who are intensely interested
in getting the union into use at
least two years from the date it
was thought to have been opened.

We feel that the spontaneous
love of humanity which infects
anyone on this campus has
surged through the humble
veins of these men who make

a deafening din with their fu-

rious hammering and sawing.

We feel that they know the pur-
pose for which they strain. Some-
how a fellow can tell they visual-
ize the hours of pleasure this
building will bring to the students
and work all the harder for their
knowing.

There is a slight parking prob-
lem created by the gigantic fleet
of autos which conveys this am-
bitious horde to work day in and
day out regardiess of the severest

By JOHN OTTLEY

storm, but we do not mind this.

Another thing which warms
the heart is the attitude of the
upperclassmen who may not
get to use the building before
they graduate.

“Anyone can make an error,” one
said, “and could I be so selfish
as to want to get into the union
when I know the delay in opening
it will make it so much the better
for future Davidson boys. Not on
your life, sirrah!” Indeed there was
almost a tone of indignation in his
voice.

We might intérject one soft note
of exhortation with the hope that
it will not hurt anyone's feelings.
We hope that the worthy con-
struction men will not make any
errors in their haste. We've heard
it makes waste.

On Your Marz

In our zeal to take a moral issue
with everything here we sometimes
commit a grevious injustice to our-
selves.

Mention, for example the
word. communism or label a
thing communistic or Marxist
and your companions will

blush if not blurt out some

scathing invective.

Though he seems to haye been
far from right both in theory and
practice Karl Marx has made some
invaluable contributions to the field
of analysis of history, of social
and economic systems of the wes-
tern world,

It is nothing but pitiful that we
must attach a stigma of automatic
evil to the study or even contem-
plation of this thinker.

Of course come of this is a
natural reaction to the storm
trooper tactics which many
members of the communist
party have employed to get
Marx displayed in an unusual.
ly favorable light.

Gerald Johnson writes pertinent-
ly: “The regimentation that is real-
ly to be feared in American life is
not the regimentation imposed from
without ... (it) is accepted sullen-
ly and will be rejected at the first
opportunity; but regimentation ac-
complished by a man’s own de-
cision to go along with the crowd
is deterioration of character and
is likely to be permanent.”

Immature Attitude Of Student Body Primary
Factor In Curtailing Some Needed Changes

Each year from time to time
the Davidson student. body attaches
itself to some particular segment
of the curriculum or calendar
which, it believes, encroaches upon
the independence and individuality
of the students, and the hue and
cry of battle is raised in an at-
tempt to remedy the situation.
Usually the criticism is a valid one
which deserves the attention of
the Administration and should be
acted upon, Last year it was the
problem of Thanksgiving vacation
and cuts and the restrictive meas-
ures of the professorial oath—this
year the brunt of the attack has
been directed against the inade-
quacy of the Christmas holidays.
Some talk about instituting a
Dean's List which would carry with
it the compensation of unlimited
cuts has been noised around in
various bull sessions. The need for
a change in the required subjects
and in the courses offered has been
advanced. Some of the most fila-
grant examples of the need for re-
vision are in several archaic tra.
ditions and rules existing either
in the by-laws of the school or in
the unwritten word, and which are
preserved as a sop to the trustees
and alumni who would like to keep
Davidson in the niche of their
memory which they have carved
for it: that of a quaint old Pres-
byterian school, turning out men
well-versed in the intricacies of
Calvinism, but sadly lacking in the
necessary realities which one will
encounter in life. It goes without
saying that these could be changed
without hindering the essential
values on which Davidson is based.

One thing the student body often
forgets in its struggle for emanci-
pation is an ancient hackneyed
phrase which has been uttered for
many years: that privilege invokes
responsibiltiy. The familiar cry that

By RONALD WILSON

the Administration treats us as a
group of prep school kids is at
times not far from wrong, but un-
fortunately we often give them ex-
cellent reasons for thinking that
we are no more than overgrown
school children. The whistles, the
cat-calls, and the legion of march-
ing feet which accompany an-
nouncements from the platform in
chapel are definitely not manifes-
tations of mature minds. A speak-
er here can never be assured of a
courteous welcome or even a
chance to make his talk to a com-
paratively quiet audience. Dis-
courtesy and misplaced comments
seem to have become the standard
of action. Last year we reached a
new low, even for Davidson, in the
disgusting exhibition at Dr. Aber-
nethy’s speech. Ali these actions
are purely childish, sickeningly so,
and have no place in a college
which is supposedly composed of
men who have gotten through high
school or prep. school. Oddly
enough, it seems that the sopho-
more, juniors and seniors are the
primary instigators of these out-
bursts. After a year or so, they have
become well-versed in the routine.
The freshmen receive it at first
with a mixture of amazement and
contempt, then, as they become
immunized to the raucous behavior,
some of them follow in the foot-
steps of the upperclassmen.

Thus, we have cut our own col-
lective throat by these actions, as
far as ever obtaining some of the
revisions for which we plead. Sev-

eral of the professors have stated
that they would not vote for cer-
tain measures simply because they
did not believe the student body,
as a whole, could use them with
discretion. The restrictions which
cause friction between the students
and the Administration are as much
the fault of the student body, which
has not yet shown itself capable
of handling extra responsibility and
privilege, as it is of the decidedly
conservative policy of the Admin-
istration. Our first move is to get
rid of this juvenile temperament;
then we can ask for the privileges
accorded to mature college stu-

dents,

Drink
‘M

O
O
R?

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville

Creamery, Inc.
MOORESVILLE. N. C.
Dial 3-6341

FOR QUICK SERVICE

BATES CLEANERS

DYEING & ALTERATIONS — HATS BLOCKED
LAUNDRY SERVICE

DULG

NY

CUUAUTAATBAS :

|

Campus capers

for Coke

w
When grades are posted, get hold
- of yourself-—~maybe the news is
rj good. Anyway, there'll always be
problems ahead, so start now and
face them refreshed. Have a Coke.

“Coke” te @ veghtered trado-camrk.

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N. C.

© 1982, THe coca-coua company

