PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEELY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR IN CHIEF BILL WHITE
BUSINESS MANAGER. ............:...5....0 ALEX GOLEY
Associate Editors .....-..-.---. Shetly Beard, Pete Kalogridis,
George McMurray
Larry Dagenhart, Frank Hanshaw,
John Ottley
Photographs—Archie Neal

Photographer—Andrew Simmons

Feature Editor—Mike Myers
Exchange Editor—Ed Richardson
Boo Northcutt
Jack Hobson
Bob Poston
seeeeenne Bill Minter
Preston Chaney

been m eee etree ttteeeeret sence

Managing Editors .........-
Copy Editor—Pete Ormsby
Art Editor—Don Mahy
Sports Editor—-Dick Liles
City Editor—Nat Daniels
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager ...-------.. .
Collection Manager
Subscriptions Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Who Hushed Athletic Discussion
At Alumni Gathering - And Why?

Among the topics for panel discussion at the recent Meck-
lenburg-Union, counties’ alumni banquet in Charlotte was the
sports at Davidson, Listed along with 1) Student body size,
2) Fraternities, and 3) Academics, sports was included under
the general discussion theme: ‘Which Way for Davidson?’

All topics were discussed save athletics. which received only
a polite brushoff by the panel moderator, who—being an im-
partial non-Davidsonian—apparently had been foretold that
this ugly subject must not rear its head in the prevailing peace
of a Presbyterian gathering.

* To say that there was disappointment for many of the
large turn-out would be truthful, and to say that.it left a bad
taste in the mouths of some that the matter had not been allowed
to be brought up, would be. we think, no exaggeration. Easily,
athletics would have held the spotlight had it been brought up.
And rightly so. The alumni present were interested most in
that subject. The other topics, as it turned out. for the most part
only showed that every member of the panel felt as every other
member about every subject, and that—as the moderator put it,
‘Davidson is perfect in every cespect.”’

The examination layoff forced our comment so late that
the thought might have cooled in the minds of some present and
ired by such outlawery. But we wonder: 1) Who gave the word
that the very pertinent subject of athletics should not be brought
up before the alumni—pro or con, and 2) Why?

Nothing like stagnation to preserve the status quo.

East and West Clashes Produce
Noisy Explosions For Occupants

East being East and West being West, the twain are clash-
ing frequently these nights.

A carry-over from exam period pressures, oaths and alarm
clocks, singing and sirens, bottle-breakers and ball bouncers, and
nuisances and noisemakers in general are rending the after-mid-
night air. And no steps have been taken to check the bedtime
bedlam. °

Firecrackers, supposedly outlawed in the county as well
as on campus, are commonplace. The aforementioned practices
ought to be. Common sense, though. is figured to take care of
most of them. Besides a lack of maturity and common sense.
then, why does this racket persist? The offenders aren't the least
bit disturbed by threat of action by the student government.
They're perfectly content to continue their prep school practices
so long as they feel that there is no restraining monitor about.

Could it be these dorm disturbances are only the manifesta-
tion of the student opinion of its government?—a government
in name, performing the routine functions, but hardly rough
enough to stop a little hell raising at one o'clock in the morning.

Student Body Should Benefit
From Open “Closed” Meetings

The initiation of President Mac McLean's ‘town meeting’’
conception of student body meeting this morning could well be
the dawn of a new day of student expression on the campus.

Long stifled by faculty-administration handed down de-
cisions, railroaded reports from small student body committees
that were representative only in name, and by a feeling of
apathy stemming from inability to voice an opinion that might
stand a chance of survival, the student body at last can get some-
thine off its chest—openly.

McLean’s plan for using every fourth Friday is in keep-
ing with the chapel committee's proposal that all student busi-
ness be reserved for Friday. Conducted after the devotional serv-
ice, the open meeting does not seem to have any adverse effect on
the spirit in which chapel is met. Moreover, with the student
knowledge that such chance for expression is now available, it
may well be that chapel ‘‘conduct’’ as a whole will benefit.

The principal virtue of these meetings seems to lie in the
thought that will be stimulated, and—importantly—the action
that should follow. Whereas expression through The David-
sonian can, through stimulation, lead indirectly to action, direct
action in the form of legislative proposals should be forthcom-
ing from spoken discussion of a common meeting room.

It is important that talk from the floor be in the construc-
tive vein, and not merely talk for the purpose of being seen and
beard. Gripes are to be expected. But gripes without accompany-
ing proposals of improvement do nothing for progress.

Too, for a resulting action, it is important that thought be
given the ideas advanced at one meeting and held over to the next.
For without thought, the period of contemplation between pro-
posal and ballot might be done away with, railroading replacing
it.

Issues that are vague and uncollected; ideas that have never
quite materialized; movements that have never had a chance for
presentation, should become concrete and united. When that point
is reached, we will be moving toward progress.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

tas 1 AND

Hele,
cas,

: on) —_ a Me a ce ae)
/ vy ‘

a ear a Vo. Fas 4

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

"t ENGHWED or "ALBRECHT DUE

oo: ~

‘ .
a . Te

1}

DON MANY

vy qe,

The most flagrant display of
adolescence which the Davidson
Student Body entirely too often
demonstrates is the inconsidera-
tion which it) shows for its in-
dividual members. This is particu-
larly pronounced in the area of the
dormitories, and it reaches a cli-
max during exam week when the
more or less subdued hubub of the
rest of the year increases in volume
and intensity until it becomes a
veritable bedlam. A conscientious
student who is trying to study for
his finals under these circumstances
must either become stone deaf or
give up in disgust and retire to the
already overcrowded library.

Now one of the first princi-
ples of maturation is the recog-
nition of the existence and
right to that existence of
other individuals besides the
self. If we are to really grow
up we must become in an ever
diminishing degree the center
of our own little universe, and
apply the golden rule in every
aspect of our relations with our
fellow human beings. Of course

4

ee

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1952

Dormitory Life At Davidson;
A Demonstration of Immaturity

or mistreat them so, and these dor-
mitories are our homes for the
greater part of four years.

The arguments, or more ac-
curately, rationalizations of the
problems boil down to “we're
tense, and have to let off some
steam,” which is true for all of
us to a certain extent, but let.
ting off steam so selfishly and
destructively should have been
left to our kid brothers many
years ago. We're supposed to be
grown up young gentlemen
with one to four years of col-
lege, and mature enough to un-
derstand the responsibilities to
our fellow students and to our.

we can never achieve @ com-
plete altruism; we must leave
that to God, but to strive in
that direction is one of the
basic principles of Christian
ethics.

Most of us were brought up in
upper-middle class Southern Pres-
byterian homes (the humble abodes
of the common man), where the
four walls of our rooms afforded
a degree of peace, quiet, cleanliness
and dignity, but once we gett loose
in a dormitory, we lose our self-
respect, our respect for other people
and even many of our fundamental
human characteristics. Dormitory
life is varied by water fights, blar-

ing radios, midnight  git-fiddle selves which life in a college
pickin’s, and general free for alls dormitory places upon us. So
which upset nerves, interrupt| the next time the temptation

“arises to create a disturbance

in the dormitories, before we
start anything, let’s ask our.
selves three questions: “How
will it affect our fellow stu-
dents?’;’ “Would I do it at
home?” and “Would it be the
action of a normal, educated
and mature adult?”

sleep, and leave college property
in a somewhat depreciated state.
These more destructive forms of en-
tertainment take place only at in-
tervals, but the standard can at
times and to many people be, a
pretty big racket, and during exams
it becomes almost unbearable, We
wouldn't act that way in our homes,

FROM _THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

WALKER HITS AT SLEEPINESS OF
DAVIDSON STUDENT GOVERNMENT

Paradise Missing, If

Not Lost,

From Norwegian Angel Voices

When Hans Olav, of the Nor-
wegian press and government, was
at Davidson several months ago,
he assured us that Norway was on
her guard, ready for battle, and
even more indomitable than she had
ever been. Every moment of their
time, he said, was being spent in
earnest preparation for a possible
war, And then, as if to prove his
point. Norway sent over her Olavs-
guttene, or Singing Boys, Friday,
to show how much rehearsal time
they must be giving to the Olavs-
milites, or army.

Guilty of a sporadic, unpolished
and at times even slovenly per-
formance, the forty-eight member
group, minus one who was busy
having his appendix out, showed
the strain of an outrageously plan-
ned concert tour. Duke heard the
Singing Boys Thursday night, Da-
vidson, Friday. night; Columbia,
South Carolina, Saturday; Danville,
Virginia, Monday, and somewhere
in Georgia on Wednesday. Such a
table-hopping schedule, while it
may prove that at least forty-eight
Norwegians are indomitable, also
proved that thirty-six pre-adoles-
cent boys, regardless of nationali-
ty, are-unable to travel all day and
sing well that night.

The boys were not too sleepy to
keep their eyes open, however.
With a benevolent smile on his

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS
Svein Sigvartsen, Terje Vegstein
and basso Wiggo Wyphjell to ask
what they like most about the
United States: tall buildings, sub.
ways or ice cream. Svein and Terje
answered immediately. “Girls!”
and compared notes in Norwegian.
Wiggo, older, wiser and fresh from
Dake, likes ice cream.

Olavsguttene’s conductor and
founder, Ragnvald Bjarne (Bjarne
is pronounced like Ragnvald looks)
was a friendly, nervous man in his
late fifties whose stock-in-trade
were a broad smile, a handshake
and the phrase, “Come to Nor-
way!” He was generous with alf
theee, The smile was unbroken, and
this interviewer shook hands with
him six times in ten minutes and
was invited to Norway twice on
each shake. Conductor Bjarne,
though handling English well, was
happy to find exchange students
Ingmar Lindmarker and his come-
ly Winthrop date, both of whom
spoke whatever it was they talked
in for an animated five minutes. It
might have slipped through un-
noticed, but to all appearances,
Bjarne didn’t invite Ingmar or his
date to Norway.

Accompanist Melvin Simonsen
played two exercises during the
first half of the program. The
first was Grieg’s March of Sinclair,
barely legitimate as a concert

miere performance of Variations
on a Two Note Concerto by the
Norwegian contemporary, Melvin
Simonsen. It is hoped that Colum-
bia,
Georgia were spared the simplicity
of Mr. Simonsen’s Variations.

The calmest member of the
troupe was their Violinist, Eiving
Bull-Hansen, whose violin playing
was also calm. Mr. Bull-Hansen
rendered Svendsen’s Violin Ro-
mance in D as_ eleven-year-old
Pelle might, Pelle cannot play the
violin. It was, to say the least, dis-
appointing to hear an elementary
composition. played without con-
fidence by the conductor of Oslo’s
National Theatre Orchestra and
the great-grandson of the more
famous Ole Bull of a century ago.
We are sure that both Mr, Simon-
sen and Mr. Bull-Hansen are good
fathers to the boys.

On the musical side of the eve-
ning, the choir was noticeably more
comfortable during the second half.
Strangely enough, their Italian
pieces were more naturally done
than such native songs as Grieg’s
prophetic I Himmerik and the pas-
toral Ku Banne, both of which
showed the choir lack of pitch in
the upper register. The one excep-
tion to this was the singing of
highly-touted Pelle, Jarl Kaavin,
who was truer above high C than

Danville and somewhere in

In Article VI of the Constitution
of the Student Government of Da-
vidson College there is a mention of
the fact that officers should “strive
at all times toward the improve.
ment of conditions upon the cam-
pus.” This not only implies an obli-
gation on the part of the officers to
improve the honor system and to
enforce student body regulations,
but it also infers a definite respon-
sibility on their part to bring about
demands of a majority of the stu-
dent body.

One method by which the
cut syatem, holidays, and other
student demands of a general
nature may be ironed out with
the faculty is through the
Faculty - Student Conference
Committee.

This committee was created by
Article XVI of the Constitution and
is to “facilitate a free and frank
interchange of ideals and view-
points upon college matters of gen-
eral interest to the students and
faculty.” The committee is com-
posed of three faculty members
elected by the faculty and five stu-
dent’ body officers. The Faculty-
Student Conference Committee has
not convened in a year and a half.

Since the committee has not
assembled for over a year, I
assume that the present stu-
dent government is of the
opinion that there are not prob-
blems or dissonant beliefs be-
tween the faculty and students,
or that our student officers
have interpreted the Constitu-
tion as to imply no obligation

general demands of the ma-

jority of the student body.

A more poignant answer to why
the Faculty-Student Conference
Committee has not met would be
that our student government sys-
tem is permeated with inertia and
lethargy in pressing the demands
of the students on the faculty.

Student body officers too oft.
en regard their offices as a per-
sonal prerogative, a free ticket
to ODK and Who's Who, and
an honorary position void of
any obligation or responsibility.
Student body officers should be
elected on the basis of their in-
terpretation of what student
government should and can
do for the students.

Student body officers should be
elected on the grounds of what
they promise to achieve for the
students and how well they are
qualified to do the job. This type
student government would change
ODK membership to appointment
on the grounds of what officers ac-
complished once in office rather
than on their ability to merely ob-
tain office.

This would convert our stu-
dent government from a ten.
dency to become a collection of
figureheads with no responsi-
ble duties other than the honor
system and student body regu-
lations to an assembly of rep-
resentatives the
majority opinion of the stu-
dents.

If the student body officers were
elected on definite timely issues

to make the ‘student government
more proficient, it is my belief that
our student government system
would be intensively and increasing.
ly productive; the officers would be
more energetic and enthusiastic;
and the student body would assume
a confirmed regard for student
body elections, It is disheartening
to realize that our student body
elections are verging on popularity -
polls.

What else could the elections
be besides a popularity poll if
a student cannot state why he
secks office and what he pro-
poses to accomplish once in of-
fice?

The word “representative” de-
notes one acting as an agent for a
group, and an agent is created to
produce a certain effect. Under our
present system student body officers
are not elected to produce a certain
effect and consequently they are
far from representative. It is very
possible at Davidson for a candi.
date to be elected whose opinions
are diametrically opposed to the be-
liefs of the majority that elected
him, One might say this is democ-
racy in action but I construe it as
mere folly because the candidate
would never have been elected if his
beliefs were publicly reveated.

Under our present system no
one is quite certain what the
majority student opinion is on
important issues; no one is
quite certain why the student
body officers were elected; and
most frightening of all, many
officers themselves don’t know

face, this reporter cornered sopranos | piece, and the second was the pre-

O. D. K. PROGRAM ARTICLE:

(Continued On Page Four) on their part to accomplish

and on the basis of their proposals (Continued On Page Four)

Strand Questions Compulsory “Y” Membership At Davidson

(The reasons for presenting this subject are: (1) to carry out
part of the ODK program outlined at the first of the year, i.e, to
take a long look at the YMCA set-up with special reference to com-
pulsory membership;” (2) to bring before the student body a mat-
ter that has been greatly discussed by the Y Cabinet and the Y
Board of Directors.)

It was thought that this subject would be treated as a “hot” issue
by presenting opposing viewpoints; but since YMCA membership is of
little concern to the students in general, the first intention of this state-
ment will be to inform. I will bring out the main points at question and
then draw my personal conclusions.

Most of you are familiar with the way in which our Y is set up.
Every man is a member, He becomes one when he enters school and
pays his fees, part of which is a campus tax to the YMCA.

It is obvious that something is wrong with the Y. It is not a
vital, living organization. The Y is a tradition at Davidson into
which a group of boys settle every year and then move on to
make room for the next group of boys, while the program re-
mains pretty much the same through the years.

We have a large non-interested group within the membership which
approaches active participation and interest only in the Christmas Gift
Fund Campaign and in the Spring Elections. Also we find some resent-
ment against the Y. No policy decisions are ever initiated by the general
membership or even referred to the membership for approval or de-
cision. We have boys who are not Christian being forced into a Chris-
tian fellowship if they want to stay at Davidson. There is also the
possibility that they will be elected to Y offices,

I think that all will agree that these things are true and not indica-
tive of a healthy, vital, and worthwhile organization which is based
on historic Christianity. The problem then is How can we improve the
situation?

In considering these facts there are two viewpoints:

The first deals with the problem by advocating that we do
away with our present plan of membership and put it on a
voluntary basis.

No religious organization which imposes itself upon its members can

serve its purpose. It should grow from the grass roots. If the Y were
voluntary it would more nearly approximate its purpose of being a
fellowship of Christians who want to express their love for Christ in
that fellowship and in social activity. If this plan were accepted there
would be no non-Christian forced into the Y by his desire to remain at
Davidson; and neither would the Y face the possibility of his being
elected to a Y¥ office. The voluntary plan would do away with the
large non-interested group, and would also alleviate any resentment
against the Y from within its own membership. As the group would be
active and interested it would initiate and decide about plans and
projects. It would be possible for the Y as an organization to take a
stand with regard to campus issues, for instance the gambling problem
‘that came up last year, We would be in harmony with the National
YMCA Movement as far as membership is concerned. At present we
are the only school that has a completely automatic or compulsory
membership plan. In short, the Y would be made more meaningful to
its members and more effective as a campus organization.

The second viewpoint is held by those who do not agree
with the voluntary membership plan.

They have not yet offered a positive solution to the problem of
how to improve the existing situation in the Y; but they have pointed
out some of the dangers involved in changing from compulsory mem-
bership, the four main objections are: (1) all of the Davidson students
except about thirteen are members of some evangelical church; there-
fore, the dilemna of having non-Christians in a Christian organization
is mach lessened if not removed altogether, (2) membership on a volun-
tary basis would create division in the student body over a religious
issue, (3) the Y would lose prestige on the campus. If the Y elections
were limited to a segment of the student body, they would no longer
hold a place of importance just under that of the Student Government
Elections. Because of this the Y membership might come to be thought
of as a bunch of “baby Joes,” and this atmosphere would not be conducive
for a man who was on the borderline to come into a Christian fellow-
ship and from there into a deeper meaning fo: his life. It would also
limit the contact that Christ, through the Y, could have on individuals
in the student body because of its restricted membership and its lack of
prestige, (4) Under the voluntary plan the Y would no longer have its
chief means of financial support, i.e. the campus tax; and would there-

fore not be able to carry on its full program, It would no longer rep-
resent the entire student body which would mean that the chaplain
could not serve as Y secretary in addition to his other duties.

In the personal conclusions I would like to briefly reply to these
points:

(1) These may be only fifteen boys who aren’t church mem.
bers, but there are many more who dont know what church
membership means in living experience.

If I am wrong, why is there the large non-interested group, and
why is there need to worry about voluntary membership since every-
body would want to be in the Y anyway?

(2) Voluntary membership would not create division in the
student body.

It would only bring into the open division which is already there.
We should not force unity where there is no sound basis for it.

(3) Certainly the ¥ would lose prestige on a volontary mem.
bership plan; but the purpose of the Y is not to stand for Chris.
tianity in such a way as to gain prestige.

Rather, it is to stand for Christianity whether it brings prestige
or not. In the days of the early church the aid was anything but con-
ducive to membership, yet the church was alive,

(4) The program is not a static thing to be carried through
no matter how large the membership and interest might be.

But the scope of the program should be determined by the number
and interest of the members. In other words, the financial needs would
not be as great.

‘As I look at information that I have, I am in favor of changing
the present automatic Y membership to a voluntary plan. Space limits
me from indicating the outline of a plan at this time.

If there is to be any change made, there will have to be a shout
heard from the student body, a shout so loud that it will carry through

the Cabinet, the Board of Directors, and the Religious Exercises Com-
mittee to the Trustees.

ALLAN STRAND.
