PAGE TWO

Executive Committee Clarifies
Stand On Current Holiday Issue

November 13, 1952
The Executive Committee of the Faculty would like to
express its appreciation of the spirit shown by the students in
requesting single cuts on January 2 and 3, 1953, instead of
asking for an extension of the Christmas recess to include those
days, which was more greatly desired by them. ;
The Committee concluded, after careful study, that it could
not grant the request for single cuts, partly because the benefits
therefrom would be so uneven among the students, and partly
hecause it would be impossible to do any worthwhile work
with greatly depleted classes on those two days.

The committee then considered the feasibility of extend-
ing the holiday to Monday morning. January 5. Such an exten-
sion did not seem wise. In the judgment of the committee. it
would be unfair to many students having plans for the week be-
fore Christmas to make the two days up by beginning the holi-
days on December 20 instead of December 18. To make them up
by reducing the time allowed for examinations seemed to the
committee to have disadvantages from the viewpoint of the stu-
dents that made a return to work on January 2 preferable.

For a number of years the Faculty has tried to place the
holiday period so as to allow as much time as possible before
Christmas Day. thinking that this was the most important part
of the period to the bulk of the students, and especially to those
who wished to seek employment during the recess. This year.
with Christmas fallipg on Thursday, it seemed desirable to begin
the holiday on the 18th and to reopen College on January 2.
A holiday of more than two full weeks could not be provided
without making Commencement a full week jater in June or
without reducing the examination periods. Both of these alter-
natives appeared to be more disadvantageous than reopening on
January 2.

The Faculty is anxious to adjust the calendar to the reason-
able convenience of the students and their families. When the
present year's calendar was prepared the faculty acceded to a
request from the students for a long Thanksgiving holiday. Any
suggestion that the Faculty set the reopening of College for Jan-
uary 2 to offset the advantage of the long Thanksgiving holiday

-is entirely without warrant. The customary full two weeks at
Christmas were provided for, and they come to an end on the
morning of January 2 for the reason that they begin as early
as the close of College exercises on December 18.

The desire of the Faculty to meet the reasonable convenience
of the students is indicated by an action of the Executive Com-
mittee, taken in connection with discussion of the recent petition
of the students. This action requests the Faculty committee on
the calendar to consult with the student members of the com-
mittee on Student-Faculty relationships before fixing the calen-
dar in future years.

For the Executive Committee
E. J. ERWIN
Secretary

A Modest Proposal: A Step
Toward To A Better Davidson

The problem of the date of return from Christmas vacation
has been discussed as democratically as possible for the past
several weeks in The Davidsonan.

After considering the matter last week the Executive Com-
mittee did not decide in favor of either proposal presented to
them by Jack Ruth or Bob Henry, president of ODK. and the
reasons for their decision have been released in this issue.

To this writer it seems that the question goes far beyond
the decision. for we feel that in a sense it is a test case and under
present conditions an ever recurring one. The Davidsonian has
campaigned hard and vigorously for the extension, but now
feels that this as all other previous issues belongs to the past.
However, the principal or problem that occasioned these issues
is not dead, but still present.

It is the opinion of this writer that this and similar prob-
lems stem directly from the very apparent lack of a functioning
student body-faculty joint relationship. There have been many
suggested remedies for this situation, but this paper proposes
only one. That is the reactivation of the Faculty-Student Con-
ference Committee.

The Constitution provides for such a committee made up
of three faculty members elected from the faculty: and five stu-
dent members to be the presidents of the upper classes, the fresh-
man advisor, and a fifth member selected from ODK. Its purpose
is to facilitate a free and frank interchange of ideas and view-
points upon college matters of general interest to the students and
faculty. Any member of the student body can meet with this
committee to express any ideas and participate in the discussions.

However, to our knowledge it has neither existed nor
functioned during the past four years.

The reestablishment and reactivation of the committee
would not be an “‘all-take’’ and “‘no-give’’ proposition, but set
up for a long range view toward an ultimate and practical solu-
tion. The keynote is advanced co-operation in attempted long-
range plannihg, as contrasted with mere destructive criticism.

In addition to meeting and deciding on countless minor
problems, this committee could meet with the Calendar Com-
mittee to avoid any possible conflict in the scheduled Concert-
Artist Series, to aid in the establishment of holiday schedules,
to make recommendations toward the holding to or the abolish-
ing of the oft disregarded review period schedule, and in general
to decide.on the many problems that are characteristic of each
school year.

The need is already apparent. It is for us now to take steps
toward fulfilling that need.

Words and platforms are sometimes meaningless, goals
and motives sometimes empty, and action sometimes complacent.
Perhaps past Davidsonians have campaigned for the same things,
but this is neither an idle protest nor an attempt to fill up a
week's editorial column. It is, however. an attempt to propose
not only the right step, but the only step for a co-operative
Davidson. It is a forward step and a completely different atei-
tude. It is an endeavor to examine issues before those “issues are
actually created—to discuss problems while they are still in the
formative stage. How different is this attitude from our present
ineffective criticism of previously decided issues.

Even a casual observer would recognize the fact that short-
sightedness or complacency would destroy all future hopes for
improvement, and preserye the existing system.

The Davidsonian challenges the faculty-administration, stu-
dent body, student council, ODK and any other person intimate-
- ly concerned with the welfare of Davidson College. not only
for the reinstitution, but for reactivation of a concerned and
active Faculty-Student Committee. It is a choice between long-
range planning and short-range griping. The decision is yours
as is the ultimate solution for all future problems.—F.H.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR

CNN ee
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF -.....-.--..--...-------- Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ..........-.=.-------------- John Ottley
Entered as second class matter at the Pést Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

s

7 '
“¢
fy i rat

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SSI ea
CLE

Pee dti a tec

~

y

WZ

a
SS
——
4

Z3

LPLLE
LES

\GU
<<
SOS
Tt hhh

rr

SS
We
VOLS

NY

i

<o
sas, SOS

AN

ee

SS
S¢
wT, NS

SSS
tt!

a

Sn aaa

SSSSSeie77ee

Ch ert aed Ue
Uy

“Thomas s+ You KNow Too mucH !° Ss

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

Forest Fires, Alexander Trial

Focus Attention On W. N. C.

Mountains are earth’s unde-
caying monuments.
—N. Hawthorne.

Two recent events have focused
much of the country’s attention
on the hill-country of Western
North Carolina and Tennessee.
More serious between them are the
intermittent and widespread forest
fires; the other, more colorful event
is last Wednesday’s trial in Ashe-
ville of Tom Alexander, accused of
killing a bear on federal, protected
property.

The case was ‘heard under Judge
Wilson Warlick, one of the South's
outstanding jurists. It was Judge
Warlick, as you remember, whom
Fall Services speaker Thompson
claimed credited 100% of his cases
to drink. This may all be true, but
that ignores a lot of details.

For instance, Tom Alexander
may have been feeling pretty good
when he shot that bear last May,
but. it’s a sure bet if he hadn't
had something to warm him up
and soothe his nerves, he would

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

have been bound to miss the bear
and hit a tourist. Though tourists
are protected in the Great Smokies,
the. charge against him then would
not have been homicide, but at
most, eliminating a public means of
support. Tourists, in one form or
another, are a necessary evil in
the mountains, and since they don’t
taste near as good as bearmeat, the
chances are they'll stay around
longer.

Testimony in the Alexander trial
revealed that there were about
twenty holes in the bear in ques.
tion. Chances are there weren't
many more than twenty shots fired.
Tales of the marksmanship of Wes-
tern North Carolina go back as far
as the days when Davy Crockett
was wandering around North Caro-
lina, Virginia and Tennessec.

One of them has to do with a
shooting match he lost by default.

Crockett was shooting with Mike’

Fink. Shooting first, Crockett aimed
ata cat 150 yards away on the fence
of Fink's potato patch. According

+ MAY

to those who are supposed to
know, “the ball cut off both the
old tom cat's ears close to his
head, and shaved the hair off clean
across the skull, as slick as if he'd
done it with a razor, and the crit-
ter never stirred, nor knew he'd lost
his ears till he tried to Scratch
em.”

Firing next, Mike Fink aimed at
a far-off sow and a litter of pigs,
and kept “loading and firing for
dear life, till he hadn't left one of
them pigs enough tail to make a
toothpick on.” Crockett saw that
Fink had left about an inch of
tail on one of the pigs, so he added
a shot and cut it off as if it “had
been drove in with a hammer.”

Supposedly Crockett then added,
“That made Mike a kinder sorter
wrothy, and he sends a ball after
his wife as she was going to the
spring after a gourd full of water,
and knocked half her comb out of
her head, without stirring a hair,
and calls out to her to stop for me

(Continued On Page Four)

’52 Grad. Finds AB Degree, ODK, Phi Bate

Prime Requisites For Lucrative Occupation

One of the joys of a college edu-
cation is that, after graduation, one
can expect his scroll of parchment
to be a passport into the business
world, garnering jobs for him
which would otherwise be unat-
tainable. The four years a student
spends at college are considered
as time well spent, for during this
time he is expected to derive some
knowledge and acumen of the af-
fairs of the world, and also the
ability to translate this new-found
knowledge into practical experi-
ence. The college handbook will
tell you that a man's college edu-
cation will develop initiative and
stimulate creative thinking. Now,
more than ever, the trend seems
to be back to the good old liberal!
education which includes a smatter-
ing of everything; the thought
being that a liberal education in-
sures a more fully developed, bet-
ter acclimated executive for the
large corporations. That’s why
every spring we see representa-
tives from all types of businesses
descending upon the campus in
droves, promising five-figured sal-
aries and four-figured ulcers to the
budding young graduates who are
diligently seeking :cbs. It really is
quite heart-warming to think of
such a future in sight.

One would expect that, the bet-
ter a student is in his studies, and
the more diversified his interests
while he is on the campus here,
the more lucrative would be his
offers after his career has termi-
nated. We have Phi Beta Kappa
to honor those who have excelled
in the realm of scholarly achieve-
ment, by dint of putting in many
hours above and beyond the call
of duty and who should derive some
benefits thereof in later life. For
the Big Men on the campus, there

By RONALD WILSON

is a highly selective organization
of the campus known as Omicron
Delta Kappa, which the Valhalla on
earth for important leaders in col-
lege functions. Both of these are
highly respected honor societies,
and rightly so, for they not only
recognize superiority in talented

students, but also excite keener,

competition among the under-
graduate student body.

Thus when someone speaks of a
person being both Phi Bate and
ODK, there is sudden silence and
hats are respectfully doffed in hom-
age to the person who could cor-
cal both of these honors. Yea,
verily, and a mighty man is he.
Since these plaudits are included
in a man’s record, it would seem
only natural that the choicest
plums as far as jobs go would fall
into their laps, and because of
their laborious efforts in college
they would, in later life, partake
of the “serandipidy” which Pro.
fessor Erwin spoke about in chapel
the other day. They, theoretically,
would be the fair-haired boys of
the world.

Such, tragically, is not alway the
case. Last weekend one of 1952's
‘BMOC’s a Phi Bate and ODK
man, returned for a visit to the
dear old Alma Mater; this afore-
mentioned one being affectionately
known as “Desert Head,” due to
the distinct similarity which his
cranial extremity bears to a wind-
swept sand dune, After the genu-
flections were finished—this honor
we accord all visiting dignitaries—
‘we questioned him about the lu-
crativeness of his job, and if it en-
tailed any great responsibility, for
‘we were anxious to hear the de-
tails from this tycoon of industry.
After great deliberation and stut-
tering, he explained that he had

‘entered the railroad business lately,
and had already risen ‘to chief en-
gincer, conductor, dispatcher and
co-ordinator for the crack Sunburst
‘Limited on the famous Lionel
‘Lines. He furthermore informed
us that all his trains operated on
00 and 027 guage. track, and all his
engines puffed steam and were
equipped with the latest in whist-

Jes. Finally he rather sheepishly |

admitted that he was running the
electric trains in the toy depart-
ment at Ivey's in Charlotte, and
benevolently answering all queries
from his juvenile audience about
the intricacies of making electric
cthoo-choo’s stop and go. He said
his brain was being taxed severely
by operating the complicated
switches and adjusting the delicate
transformers, and he sure did wish
for the good old days when all
he had to do was study vhilosophy,
pyschology, and American Civiliza-
tion and Thought. Pretty soon they
are going to put two trains on the
platform for him to run, and he's
worried about having a nervous
breakdown trying to keep them
from running together. Really it is
quite a touching story, to hear
the occupational hazards which he
suffers in his new found position.
Suppose a train should jump the
track; then he is responsible for
getting the whole thing back on the
rails all by himself. Truly, no com-
pensation is worth such unjust an-
guish.

Therefore, undergraduates, press
ton! You, too, can succeed in the
vigors of the business world. Drop
by the toy department at Ivey's
any time? old “Desert Head” will
be glad to give you his secrets
about how to be a success after
college, That is, if he isn’t fired
first,

THE FREE LANCE:

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1952

What Are Limitations On Free
Press At D.C. And Elsewhere?

A recurring topic of argument
at Davidson is the matter of a free
press. Oddly enough, it is less
complained of by those directly
associated with the paper than by
those who have no connection with
it. When the former group gets
hot under the old Arrow, however,
they usually have good reason, and
they were rather warm last week.

Freedom of the press like all
other freedoms must remain that
and not reach a stage wherein it
becomes license. By license we
mean any practice which is an
abnormal extension of a freedom
so that it inhibits other freedoms.

Newspapers are not free to print
anything they wish. In addition
to the familiar libel suits, there can
be suits for crimes such as printing
pornographic matter or weather re-
ports with faked authentication.

Very few American newspapers
have maintained a strictly unbiased
news policy for any length of time.
The “good gray Times” of New
York is perhaps the most famous
example of an objective paper
which has remained objective,
though for several years after its
inception it was anything but.

There are many theories which
go into deciding how much slant
to put into the news columns. Per-
haps the most outstanding is an
idea that the readers haven't time
to interpret the news for them.
selves and need certain partially
opiniative statements to guide
them.

Traditionally the appearance of
a by-line over a story means that
there may be some of the writer's
own opinion in the story, but so
many wire service stories. come
out with them that they are almost
meaningless to modern newspaper
readers,

It is no easy problem for man-

By JOHN OTTLEY

aging editors to decide how much
or how little slant will appear in
their columns. Certain tabloid pa-
pers make it a point to play up
the gory and micabre angle of
stories in order to sell more papers.

Difficult as it is to determine the
front page or general news policy,
this problem is dwarfted beside the
question of how to run the edi-
torial page.

Many metropolitan sheets have
their own united (to some de-
gree) editorial staff and in addi-
tion print large amounts of canned
copy like Pearson and Pegler.

A college editor can multiply by
infinity the extent of the difficul-
ties along the aforementioned
lines. He has to grapple with in-
accuracy due to reporter ignorance
in his news columns and some fire
heads on his editorial page.

Nowhere on earth do more world
reformers exist than in the ranks
of those who clamor to get their
two bits worth of yak on a col.
lege ed page, There are various
factors which contribute to this
wildness but they are not our im-
mediate concern.

As the size of the college dimin-
ishes the editor has to tread even
more carefully, for there are va-
rious special interests which have
the power to kick him or the paper
or both off the campus if he steps
on any toes too hard.

This close restrictive potential
makes his job of decision harder
for he can see some glaring wrongs
and yet cannot reach out and pin
them for fear of reprisal. At best
it’s like juggling two primed
A-bombs.

It is conceivable how in an iso-
lated case an administrative vetoe
might itself approach the state .of
being license while ostensibly de-
voted to the purpose of preventing

the school paper's freedom from
exceeding its bounds.

Alexander Hamilton stated that
the “Liberty of the press consists
of the right to publish with im-
punity truth with good motives for
justifiable ends though (it) might
reflect on government magistracy
and individuals.” -

We are inclined to agree with
this somewhat loose definition. If
a thing or a man be wrong or
right we think a paper, even as an
individual student, should have the
right to say so providing the mo-
tive of the paper is essentially
constructive and based on intelli.
gent reasoning.

Because that truth will hurt a
man or create an illusion contrary
to what an administration might
desire created is not sufficient
cause to keep it out of print. A
wrong is a wrong no matter if a
cripple or a circus strong man says
or commits it.

The real danger in criticism is
that in print it may indicate that
a thing or a man is all bad. Noth-
ing is all bad. At times it is forsee-
able how favorable publicity in ex-
cess might create an equally dis-
torted view. '

It is a regretful though none-
theless obvious fact that no one
group. anywhere has achieved per-
fection. It is a valuable service to
have faults illumined. It is not al-
ways a succulent service. ,

In brief we think with Edwin
C. James, late managing editor of
the N Y¥. Times who said, “Free-
dom of. the press is not a free-
dom to print what the editors like
(or dislike), but a freedom of the
people to read what they want.”
We believe the American college
student wants to read the truth.

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD:

Davidson Student Beholds John Knox’s Hq; ©
Thinks Edinburg Lived Through It, SoCan We

You walk down Princes Street
in Edinburgh among the mid-
morning crowd of shoppers, and
on your side of the street are all
the fashionable stores, where in the
summer the prices are even higher
than in London, and on the other
side of the street, beyond the jang-
ling, hurrying trolley cars, are the
Edinburgh Gardens. You've seen
formal gardens before, in London,
in Florence, in Paris, and the
Parisian formal gardens are the
best-kept in the world—but you've
never seen gardens which peo-
ple enjoyed so much,

On this morning, when warm
sunlight beats down tenderly on
the soft grass, you lie down full-
length and gaze up at Edinburgh
Castle, set High above the Gardens
and all of Edinburgh on a rocky
prominence, war-like and forbid-
ding even on this airy summer day.
But you've been riding on the train
all night from London, and you
got precious little sleep, because
there were a couple of drunken
sailors in the compartment next
to yours who came in to goggle
at the teen-age Belgian girls in
your compartment every few min-
utes, and who were finally thrown
off the train about three o'clock
in the morning. Fortunately for

By GEORGE BASON

your national pride, the sailors were
English and not American.

So now, in Edinburgh Gardens,
instead of looking up at the castle,
you promptly fall asleep, and wake
up only when the pangs of hunger
force you to seek out some eating
place. You cross the street again
to rejoin the jostling crowd in front
of the stores. You pause, out of
curiosity, at Woolworth’s—for lo,
the forces of American economic
imperialism extend even to the ut-
termost reaches of the earth, and
you can buy a coke as easily in
Paris, Johannesburg, or Sydney,
Australia, as you can in Davidson
—a lot easier on Sunday. Finally
you. drift into Mackie’s, a safely
Scottish establishment, sto get:
something to eat, and are imme-
diately confronted with a queue.

There is nothing the British love
better than a long queue, unless it
be a cup of tea. They will stand
in Vine for hours waiting for a
bus, waiting to get just a wee
glimpse of Princess Margaret Rose,
waiting for a cinema, or just wait-
ing because they see somebody
else waiting. It’s a national past-
time. Now, though, they are wait-
ing for food, and you have to wait
with them if you want to get rid
of that gnawing pain in the pit

of your stomach. Finally you get
your food, and then you wonder
if it wouldn’t have been better to
starve, The reign of austerity in
Britain has continued now since
the beginning of World War II,
and the beleaguered little island is
faced with a slow war of attrition
against economic forces which is
perhaps not as terrifying as the
German blitzkrieg but is certainly
just as dreadful and requiring even
higher moral courage, if that is
possible,

You spend the rest of the day
sightseeing in Edinburgh Castle,
John Knox’s home, and the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh. Then, enough
walking for the day—back to the
Gardens to hear the pipe band!

Now, in July, it stays light in
Edinburgh until ten thirty: it’s sum-
mer and the countryside is gor-
geous with purple heather in
bloom, and the ‘moors stretch
away to the distant horizon in
tangled, barbarian magnificence.
But in winter, they say, it’s dark
at half past three in the afternoon,
and the cold wind from the North
Sea cuts through you like a whip.
The moors become a_ dismal,
jumbled stretch of lonely land, and
there is no heather.

FROM THE EDITORS MAILBOx:.

Christian Pacifism Seen As Solution For
International Tension, Leading To Peace

Dear Editor:

Some will argue that the topic
which I propose to discuss is ex-
traneous to the immediate con-
cerns to which a newspaper should
devote itself. Christian Pacifism
has never been a popular position,
and in view of the situation of
our generation, surrounded as it is
with international tension, defense
preparations, the draft, and actual
combat in the Far East, it has
been dismissed as a fancifu! dream,
incapable of application in a rela-
tivistic, or as Niebuhr would term
it, “immoral” society.

Even admitting that Christ, in
his famous talk on Christian ethics
often called the “Sermon on the
Mount,” explicitly pronounced the
principle of non-retaliation of vio-
lence for violence, most Christians
will join with our nation's leaders
in insisting that pacifism is un-

realistic. In a school like David-
son where we are reminded daily
of the fundamental worth of
Christian teaching, an active ROTC
unit is maintained which has as its
sole motive the schooling of stu-
dents in the principles of armed
combat. We listen to the 5th chap-
ter of Matthew for five minutes
in the morning and then drill for
two hours that afternoon, some-
how completely unconscious or at
least unconcerned with the patent
inconsistency,

The clergy enjoins its congrega-
tions to consider military service a
duty to God, since it is only by
fighting to preserve our liberty
that we can be assured of the
free expression of our Faith. Chris-
tians and non-Christians alike join
in maintaining that “cloud-con-
tained” idealists should compromise
their pretty ideals and join their

fellows in combatting the ugly
realities of contemporary life.
Communism will not be thwarted
by turning the other cheek, for it
will not stop at two blows but
will stomp the fundamental in-
dividual and national rights we
hold most dear into the dust of
godless depotism.

Not only is pacifism considered
unrealistic, but many maintain
that it is cowardly and selfish.
The pacifist, they assert, remains
aloof from the responsibilities of
citizenship in time of war but is
quite willing to enjoy its privil-
eges once fhe crisis is past and his
fellow citizens have, with “blood,
sweat and tears,” preserved na-
tional freedom, _

These are but a few of the argu-
ments commonly advanced against
pacifism. What. can the Christian

(Continued On Page Four)
