Last week may be
looked at as having
been rather a dismal one
for Davidson from a
number of different
ways and in contrast to
the belief that the win
over Carolina could
cure all evils, it was a
great win and restored
confidence in both the
players and the students,
but one game like that
cannot possibly offset
the loss that this college
withstood when Coach
Crowell Little resigned
as head football coach

By DICK LILES
to go into private business.

Much can be said about the past few years both pro and
con, but the fact still remains that ex-Coach Little added a great
deal to the football situation at Davidson. True, he had two
bad seasons here since he relieved ‘“‘Joily Charley’’ Jamerson in
the Spring of 1950, and at numerous times just as with any
group that loses, there has been dissatisfaction and lack of sup-
port from the campus.

NEW LIFE?...NEW BLOOD ... WILDCAT CLUB

However, from the very first day, you could tell that Little
was an “‘eager-beaver” and Davidson immediately and under his
direction entered into a new era of athletic policy. Coach Little
went right to work on the support he needed to take Davidson
to the place it deserved on the ladder of sports participation and
formed the composite ‘“Wildcat Club’’ composed of Davidson
alumni who were interested in supporting athletics at their
alma mater and organized in the leading cities of the area.

This was something new for Davidson and although the
instigators of the policy knew that it would take a long time,
they felt that they had accomplished something that would
profit in the future. They were able to raise about, $25,000 a
year for use as scholarships for boys with athletic ability and
without means of attending a college.

Also Coach Little went to work on recruiting, but.
with his fund short as yet, couldn't produce a champion-
ship team in one year. His second year turned out worse
and with all the quarterback’s ideas, you still have to con-
sider that at the end of the season only nine of his starting
eleven in September had dropped out because of injuries.
The competition cannot be sneezed at either. And still he
brought in some of the finest ball players that the college has
seen lately. Only time will bear me out on this.

POPULARITY STRONG ON CAMPUS
Despite the losses and the grumblings you might have

heard, the boys who played under Little expressed their feelings

toward him personally in a recent meeting of last year's team.
The boys almost to a man told their petty gripes and he ‘in fe-
vturn explained the reason he was leaving was not because of any
retéent discontent, but because of the wonderful opportunity that
hadi been offered him. They all left the meeting with a rousing
vote of confidence for their coach and a petition to go along with
it urging his staying.

MAY HAVE HIT SNAGS

It is very evident that although the business deal swung
Coach Little around, he probably felt that he couldn't have
done much more than was already done toward improving
the athletic policy because of the concrete cules and regula-
tions of the college and various other factors both on the
faculty and among the alumni. When the “‘sanity code”
disappeared from the intercollegiate scene, Davidson's
code was kept on and even “improved” on. Things like
that are nightmares to coaches who are supposed to win.

At any rate Davidson has been left with the job of hiring
a new head coach and a problem that can’t be solved by the
new coach or anyone else with no more power than he will get.
Coach Little’s leaving has been felt by everyone on the campus
and the general consensus is that he did a swell job and his leav-
ing will hurt. Let’s just hope that his successor will do half the
job he did on keeping the Wildcat Club up and of putting out
a spirited, even if losing, team that will make all Davidsonians

happy.

Pearl
Grey
Flannels

100% Wool
$13.95

Wilson-Wright's

“Collegiate Fashions”
Davidson, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

vildcat Sports

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1952

“BONES’’ BOWS OUT

IN SPOTLIGHT

PAGE THREE

-ompetition
Carolina AA

Maryland, Loyola Hosts To
Hot And Cold Cats In Finale

By JOHN HANDLEY

A sojourn northward to Maryland is the order of the week-
end for Davidson's basketballers as they wind up the season.
Loyola in Baltimore tonight and the University of Maryland to-
morrow wraps up the 51-52 schedule for Coach Baird’s quintet.

Hot In
Meet

Craven Places
Title On Block;
Meets Marine

By BO TYNES
For the second consecutive year
Davidson College. is host to the

WILDCAT OF

When William Brooks reflects on
the Good Old Days about thirty
years from now we will offer
odds that his first thoughts will
be on his achievements as one of
Boyd Baird’s Wildcat basketballers.
Although his team didn’t approach
the .S00 mark in season's play dur-
ing either of his last two years on
the varsity, the hustling Kentuck.
ian will carry the good record of
leading his teammates in the scor-
ing column during both those cam-
paigns on the hardwood,

The angular athlete from Frank.
fort, Ky., copped Cat scoring
honors last season with a point
total of 345 and a game average of
13.2, Though a little behind his
50.51 schedule, “Bones” still led

The invasion of Maryland is the
first and last one of the season, and
also marks the lone occasion on
which thé Cats meet either of the
two teams, Baird’s charges will
enter both contests as decided un-
derdogs, although neither of the op-
posing clubs rank too high nation-
ally.

Though finishing the current
season well down in the South-
ern Conference standings, the
1951-52 Davidson basketballers
will not soon be forgotten aft.
er their sparkling play against
Duke's high-flying Blue Devils
on last Tuesday night. Even
though finding themselves on
the short end of a 58-50 count
at the final horn, the Cats made
their last home game of the
season one of their better, if not
their best, played contests of
the year. |
It took Groat and company 25

minutes of hard play to pult ahead
for the first time of the evening.
The Wildcats led at the end ‘of the
first quarter by a 14-9 count. The
score was knotted at 23.23 at half
time and only midway in the third
period did the “control-minded”
Cats fall behind at the end of that
stanza by a close 38-36 score.
Dudley Led Cat Attack

Joe Dudley led the Wildcat
attack with 12 markers, while
Mac McLean and Al Fitzgerald
each bagged 10, followed by Bill
Brooks and Jerry King with 9
each. Mac, “Fitz,” and Bill, all
séniors, played their last home
game in a Davidson uniform
and compiled a total of 29
points. All three have been
starters the entire season and
will be hard to replace when
next season rolls around.

Kappa Sigs Hold

Slim Lead As
Season Nears End

By WALLACE ABBOTT

At the end of the next to last
week of intramural basketball the
Kappa Sigs are still in first place
in the standings. Their record re-
mains at 7-1 with only a defeat by
the KA’s to mar it, However, close
on the heels of the Kappa Sigs,
with only two defeats are the Pikas
and the Sigma Chis, Because the
Pikas and Kappa Sigs have not yet
played, it looks like that game
may be the deciding one as far as
the championship goes.

In third place this week are

the KA’s, who possess a 7-3

season record, and behind them

in 4th place are the Phi Gams
with a 5-4 record.
Hot Games On Tap

With only one more week re-
maining in the basketball season,
it appears certain that there will be
some mighty close games on tap,
since all of the teams will be out to
improve their records.

Going into the final week the in-
dividyal scoring record shows that
Bill Bivins, of the Phi Delts, has
taken over the scoring lead with
152 points for nine games. Close on

Carolina AAU Wrestling Tourna-
ment. Johnston Gymnasium is to
be the center of the activities, the
first round matches being held to.
night at 8 p.m, Most of last year’s
final medalists are returning to face
an excellent crop of new contend-
ers. Competition will be more high-
ly spirited than that of last year’s,
incited by the growing popularity
of wrestling in this state,
By JACK EFIRD Several Wildcat Entries

Davidson's Wildcat basebalilers] Davidsonians will have a particu-
will open a 17-game slate against] lar interest in this tourney be-
Springfield College here March 17,] cause of the promising outlook af-

Diamond Nine
Qpéns 17-Game
Slate March 17

Athletic Director Paul Scott -an-} forded by several members of the |.

nounced today. The season will] Cat aggregation.
end May 10 against Furman. In defending his 128 pound
For the second consecutive year AAU title, D.C.’s Gene Craven
the Cats will open the season with} will meet ready and capabie op-
a new coach. This year Dave Poole} position in Camp Lejeune's Ed
replaces Frank Packard. Hanson in the 136.5 pound di-
Forty On Squad vision. Incidentally, all weight
The present squad numbers classifications have been re-
more than forty hopefuls. With vised, 125.5 pounds replacing 121,
this quantity of material to [136.5 replacing 128, etc. Morley
choose from. Poole should Vail will be a strong contender
come up with a good team to for the 146.5 title, with Bill
improve last year’s record of McNeely, last year's runner-up,
two wins in fifteen games. somewhat of a favorite in his
The pitching staff probably will} heavyweight position.
be led by lettermen “Paul Eastman] yohany Buxton will also try to
and Jim Smith, Behind these men] 94 aii the way in the 160.5 scram-
will be returnee Vic Taylor and] ite. At present two divisions seem
several men without varsity €X-l19"be fairly wide open; they are
perience. Soph Johnny Smith and/ ine 174 and 191.5 pound classes.
frosh Ish Bennett are high on! Bobby Joe Key and Charlie Mur-
Poole’s list of prospects. ray will be the Cat hopes at the
Downs Is Receiver , | 114.5 and 125.5 divisions respective-
Catching the deliveries of this/), Although Camp LeJeune and
mound corps probably will be let-| Appalachian are favored, Tourna-
terman Bert Downs, who shared| ment Chairman Paul K. Scott bas
the backstopping chores last year] visions of a possible upset by his
with two other men, but should | witacat grapplers.
move up to take over the No. 1 Olympic Rules Utilized
post this year. The officiating will be conducted
Returning to three positions | so as to comply with the Interna-
in the infield are lettermen | tional (Olympic) Rules for Wrest-
from last year. At first base is | ting, The rules are vastly different
Arnold Whisnant who is a |from those used in conventional
fancy fielder and a heavy hit- | matches, making faster and more
ter. At the keystone sack is interesting bouts from the specta-
Johnny Guiton, who will again tors viewpoint. The changes will
cover the ground between first | cffect the length and number of
and second capably. periods, types of holds, and re-
At shortstop is Chuck Elliott | quirements for pinning.
who is again ready to hold the Mrs. Walter Oakes, registrar
position which he held last year.| for the tourney, has announced
Third base is one of the positions| that thus far there are fifty-one
to be filled by a new man. All of| entries listed. The entries in-
those who played in the hot corner| clude participants from Camp
last year have graduated. Any LeJeune, Appalachian, N. C.
member of the squad could take| State, Boone High School, and

(Continued On Page Four) (Continued On Page Four)

Team Spirit Was Key To
Catfish Success — Redding

By TAD CURRIE

Team spirit. These two words can sum up the reasons be-
hind the winning season of the Davidson Catfish which drew to
a close last Monday afternoon with a thrilling victory over the
Citadel, and gave the Davidson team a season’s record of six wins
and four losses. It has only been three years since the first meet
was held in the Johnston gym pool and the Catfish have come
a long way under the able tutelage of Coach Dick Redding.

According to Coach Redding it

was “Team spirit, individual en.
couragement of each other in work-
outs, unity of desire, and the
will to do better every time,”
that paid off in a winning season.
It was hard work and expert lead-

Bivins’ heels are Phi Gam’s Larry] ership by Captain Ken Taylor,

Champion and the KA’s George
King, both with a 143 point total.
Bivins is now sporting a 17 points
per game average, while Champion
is averaging 16 points and King is
averaging 14.3 points.

Standings

Kappe Sigs -......... 7 #1

wecwwnnnennen ee 7 2
Sigma Chis ........ -- 6 2
KA’e 2.22 nec ee en ee 7 #3
Phi Gams ............ $ 4
Pi Kapps ........... 4.6=CS
CC ......-..-------- ee)
Betas ..........-..-- 4 #65
Phi Delts .......-.. 4 =#6§
SPE’s ........-.----- 2 6
ATO'S ........-...-- 1 6
SAE’s .....-.-----.-- 0.6 (688

whom Redding calls one of the best
he has ever seen at Davidson, that
won the close ones and made the
difference,

Last night most of the team
left for Chapel Hill and the
Southern Conference meet in
which the men will participate
as individuals and not as 8
team. The competition will be
stiff but the Davidson swim-
mers should come through with
their share of the honors, Best ¢
bet for a winner will be Al
Ormond in the 150.meter
event, but Paul Cole should
also be ic: there fighting.

Other team members who have
excellent chances of winning or

placing are Aubrey Miree in the
50-yard dash in which he will be
defending the trophy which Bill
Ray won last year. Captain Taylor
will swim with Miree in the 50-yard
free style, Jim Bryan will try for
a win in the 100.200 backstroke
event and Ed Stuart and Bob Pat-
ton will swim the 100-yard event.
Other team members who will be
trying for wins are Bud Montgom-
ery and George Crone who will try
the 100-yard breast, 100-yard med-
ley and 200-yard breast.

The meet, which lasts till Sat-
urday night will mark the final
swimming efforts for Davidson by
Captain Taylor and Miree and their
loss will be a big factor in next
year's season. Taylor and Miree
will be missed, but a determined
team with the same spirit as this
year could repeat and give David-
son another winning team, of which

she has too few.

all his teammates going into to-
night’s game with Loyola, sporting
a 286 total for a 124 average.

Laboring under the handicap of
a very good freshman year, Bill has
found the going rough as far as
pleasing the fans who seemingly ex-
pected a 100 per cent improvement
every year.Though he hasn't set any
conference records, Brooks has con-
tinually been the backbone of a
Wildcat quintet which might have
done considerably worse than they
have without him,
Though he naturally enjoys sec-
ing his point total climb cvery
game, Brooks puts the team’s wel-
fare above his without any hesita-
tion, His mates paid him the tribute
of electing him captain of the Cat
five this year—an honor which goes
Strictly to team players. ,

A natural aggressiveness and an

Aiways a sucker for

cigarette mildness can

Camels as your steady

you'll see why...

brother went off the deep end and got caught
on the quick-trick cigarette hook! But he wormed
his way out when he suddenly realized that

t be tossed off reel lightly.
Millions of smokers have found, too, there’s only
one true test of cigarette mildness.

It’s the sensible test—the 30-Day Camel
Mildness Test, which simply asks you to try

pack-after-pack basis. No snap judgments!
Once you've tried Camels for 30 days in your
“T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste),

THE WEEK - - - Bill Brooks

r

— Z oe

BILL BROOKS

inability to keep his lanky six-three
frame out of opponents’ way has
caused Mr Bones to foul out of sev-
eral contests during the season,

hurting the Cats’ chances no little.

It is doubtful that he'll soon forget
the applause he has’ received on
such occasions—or any of the ac-
companying moans which were
forthcoming when the fans realized

No. 35..
THE LARGEMOUTH

attractive bait, our aquatic

smoke on a day-after-day,

that the backbone of the Davidson

five had left the game for good.
Toworrow night in College Park,

Maryland, Bill Brooks will play on

the Cat five that rings down the
curtain on the hoop sport as far as
Davidson is concerned, and basket-
ball will,soon be forgotten, But
they fl miss Mr. Bones next year.

iv
. r?
i

— eps = -

"

E
4
4
o
y
Z
)

After all the Mildness Tests...

” Camel leads ail other brands by Ailiions
