THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN
Largest Summer Newspaper That We Know Of

Volume I J Number

WATERMELLON CUTTIN' Scholarships - cont.
The heat let. up just in time for a waiter Sophmores and two freshmen. Joe Cannaroe

mellon feast at the Union tonight (Wed.) and Perrin Anderson of the sophmore class
at 8:15. Prof. Shaw Smith has announced will receive Carbide Scholarships, as wel
that there will also be a surprise stage as freshmen Leon Howell of Copperhill, Te
offering from 8:15-8:30, but he said in and Bill Granlley of Winston-Salem,
his press statement that the surprise In addition to the scholarships mentic
would not include shocks, such as girls. ed above, 69 students will receive grants
The show and eats will be over by 9:00 ineaid from the General Scholarship Fund,
in time for those interested to watch the and 101 students will receive remissions
fights on TV. of half-tuition as minister's sons or
candidates for the ministry.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Svar Editors SECOND SESSION COURSES
It was with great interest that I read Mr. Hengeveld has posted the courses and
lest week's letter to the editor, and I professors for the second session of the
mst say that it seemed in many ways to hitl953 summer school. A list of courses

the nail on the head, wath professors is found below:
However, I would like to add a few words
to what last week's letter said, in order Bible 22322 Prof. Schenck

that freshmen might know that it's not all Biology 31-32 Prof, Brown
haircuts and cat pants that we're concern- Economics 31-32 Prof, Ratliff

ec about in considering their adaptation English 61-62 Prof, Lilly
to Davidson. Geography 21-22 Prof. Reid
While all the talk about conformity German 21-22 Prof, Vowles
in dress and action seems on the face of History 11-12 Prof. kcGeachy
it to be the important thing, it it act- Math 11-12 Prof. Terway
uelly important only in its connection Spanish 21-22 Prof, Causey
with the more deep rooted facts about
Davidson, Carolina or the world, SATURDAY SHOW
The truth is that when a fellow is new Saturday night's feature for thie week wil

at a job he is expected to listen to those be the first home base flick of the sume
who are experienced at the ways of the job,mer session. It will be THE CORSICAN
and to profit by that experience, So it BROTHERS, and will begin at dusk on the
should be with newcomers to Davidson, Their terrace of the Union, There will be dan-
job should be to "look on and never make a cing if anyone brings a date,
sound" until the day comes when the soundd
they make may add to what good is here, THE SUMMER SCHOOL SIZZLER
rather than try to change the while organ- ' Yreshmen who shudder before the Court o.
ism to conform with their first theoreti- Control will soon learn that it has been
cal impressions, heaven to one stocky gentleman, at this
One might read this and crow that "a point entering his 5th year at Davidson ar
dangerous conformity ie the hobgoblin of a student in freshman math,
little minds" ,but I would remind him that An expert dealer in everything from
Emerson world be equally positive in say- dramatics to soft soap, he is at present
ing that "£ stupid inconsistency is the engaged in the major extracurricula acti-
product of no mind at all", I feel then vity of announcing as staff member at WAYS
that the freshman should look things over in Charlotte. His biggest claim to fame
well before he begins his personal crusade so far has been the amnual Soap Box Derby
toward what he thinks Davidson should be, of Charlotte, and in its strenuous announ-
and when he has seen what is good, what is cing he suffered a breakdown and was sent
useless, and what is outdated, then he can to Mooresville, a rest resort, to simmer
begin to take his part in building upon downe
what we have, But Dick Perkins can stay nowhere without
Thank you for your time, Mr. Editor. I winning fame, While at Mooresville he bree
velieve that if the summer's freshman clas the link record on one of the local courses
could be judged by the Court of Control, with a roaring 157. (It was rumored that
it would be found to be a promising one this was a 9 hole course.)

indeed. To escape newsmen eager to hear of his
Sincerely, golf experience Perkins fled to nearby Da,
Re Eo, #55 secluded from all intruders by wide miles

over which no roads cross.

SCHOLARSHIPS A long and varied career will end in
For the next school year a total of 2571 more week, however, as the famous Ferkins
students will receive scholarship aid at marries a brunette beauty and leaves the
Davidson, This is an increase of some 32 Court of Control forever.
scholarships over last year. In New York collecting major league
There will be 23 Baker Scholars, ) Uniomutographs for Prof. Kimbrough he hopes
Carbide Scholars, 13 special and honor they can bring him at least to the D Legue
scholarships and 47 athletic grants. as he bows out for a happy home,
The Union Carbide Scholarships, given
for the first time this year, go to two TABLE TENNIS AT UNION-20¢ AN HR. FOR UPKEET
