PAGE TWO :

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1953

Many Library Books Still Missing;
Administration May Act

This editorial might be entitled “A Sad Commentary,
Part II”.

As we go to press only about one hundred of the missing
library books have been turned in. Most of these were re-
moved from the library after the last inventory was made.
Even now the deadline has passed.

It is obvious that the library in order to function satis-
factorily must operate within certain rules. These rules seem
simple, when you want a book from the library, check it out at
the desk before you take it anywhere else. When your two
weeks are up, bring the book back and check it in, or get it
renewed. What else is there? If we don’t co-operate with the
library it simply cannot operate under the present system.

This leads to the really disturbing factor. If the library is
unable to use the open-stack system because we do not deign
to be bothered with the onerous chore of signing out for books,
then what is the alternative?

Right now it appears to be that the open-stack system
would be junked; students would have to see a library helper,
‘and get him to get books off the shelves for them; it would
be impossible to peruse books in order to find the desire
ones for admission to the stacks would be denied; finally all
the doors in the library would be locked except one, and
through this door alone could one enter and leave the library,
so that each man would be checked as he left.

We don’t want to see any such regimented system as this
used at Davidson. We are sometimes treated as less than men,
but we often ask for such treatment. The Davidsonien has
learned, for example, that the night of the great panty-raid-
that-was-not-a-panty-raid on Queens, and the accompanying
festivities, was the night before an issue of some importance
to us was taken before the faculty. Largely as a result of the
activities of the night before, the matter was shelved at least
for the time being.

Let’s not give anybody any more excuse to treat us like
prep-schoolers. The solution is simple. We have the books;
all that need be done is to take them back now if that has not
been done already.

We hope that by the time you read this editorial, it will
be a dead issue!

Who'll Be Next?

Fortunately no one has been killed yet, but there have
been some very close calls.

The Davidsonian is greatly alarmed over the high in-
cidence of traffic accidents involving members of the student
body that have occurred in the past month. As is by now com-
mon knowledge, there have been no fatalities, but several
nasty minor injuries. In one case a student has been critically
injured.

So much is said these days about traffic accidents on our
highways and the great number of killed and injured that they
annually leave behind, that it appears there is little else for
us to say, and that any warning we give may seem timeworn
and therefore meaningless.

Most of us are prone to believe that if we ourselves just
remain within the limits of the traffic laws that we have
nothing to worry about. But unfortunately this is not neces-
sarily the case. Every car that you meet on the highway is a
potential menace. The individual never has any means of
knowing what kind of drivers are on the highway with him.

In many states physical requirements for a driver’s license
are almost a joke, the principal requisite being some degree of
sight.

Bearing this in mind, it would behoove each of us to
drive with the realization that the fellow in the next car may
be physically inadequate as a driver, that he may be intoxi-
cated, or that his automobile may be inadequately equipped
for safe driving.

It is up to the individual student to assume full responst-
bility in this matter, not only for himself, but for others who
are riding in his car. He must be sure that both he and his
car are in proper shape to drive. If one is fatigued from lack
of sleep, ill, or for any other reason is not physically up to par
for driving, it is his responsibility to himself and to society
as a whole to stay off the roads.

Probably no one expects to have an accident when he
steps into his car and drives off, but somebody always does.
Don’t let it be you.

= ON
COS

Acting on a tip received from
one of the members of the faculty,
this reporter decided to do a little
research on the life history of the
Honorable James H. R. Cromwell in
hopes of finding something rel-
evant to the position which he now
enjoys. After rummaging around
in some ancient issues of the Satur-
day Evening Post, an article turned
up entitled “Golden Boy,” which
sketched the hard fought battle
Mr. Cromwell waged in the ever-
present struggle for evistence.

It seems that Jimmy Cromwell's
mother was a match-maker of no
mean ability. After the departure
of her first husband, she had the
good fortune of making the
acquaintance of one Mr. Stotes-
bury; which acquaintance later
blossomed into romance and lead
to the nuptial altar. That Mr. Stotes-
bury was worth around $50 mil-
lion is incidental information.
Young Cromwell, 15 years old at
the time, went off to prep school
where he subsisted on a $300
monthly allowance. Upon gradua-
tion he entered the University of
Pennsylvania, struggling with a
$6000 pittance per annum, out of
which he was forced to buy his own
Stutz Bearcats.

Moving in the elite social circles
of Long Island and Palm Beach,
he finally met the daughter of
Horace Dodge, fabulously wealthy
owner of the Dodge Corporation.
Delphine and Jimmy were a charm-
ing pair, and after his return from
the Armed Services they were wed-
ded and moved into a $375,000
establishment on Long Island. The
fat years followed; Jimmy formed
the Dodge-Cromwell Enterprises
which financed all Dodge-made cars
east of the Mississippi, and before
long the Enterprise was showing
a gross income of $30,000,000 a
year. ‘

Unfortunately for Jimmy, he
liked to speculate. Florida beck-
oned with an enticing finger, and
he undertook a vast development
plan there which he called Flor.
anada. Like other speculators, he
lost his shirt in the Hurricanes and
came back home $6,000,000 poorer.
During the boom years of '27, '28
and '29, he was constantly fighting
law suits arising from:the fiasco
in Florida, and enviously watching
his friends clean up on the Stock
Market. Delphine picked this time
to take a legal leave of absence
from her husband. Dejected and

(All Unsigned Editorials are from the Sditer-in-Chief.)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR discouraged, he hit the nightclub

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Moody circuit with a great exurberance,

BUSINESS MANAGER Charies Smith and earned the title, “The Million-
ASSOCIATE EDITORS aire Playboy.”

Before lopg, even this avocation

Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader [| Wore thin, and Jim Cromwell began

Managing Edi Henry Brockmann to be socially conscious. He studied

Sports Editor my Jobe Hendtey economics books to discern a better

News Editor —. Austin Strand Feature Editor _ T. A. Williams || ™ethod to alleviate the suffering

and poverty of the masses during

Art Aaignmaent ny eee eee svtukerhott y Simons the depression; he made radical
Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson [| talks to the elite clubs with which
Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor | |his mother was affiliated, con-
Cireulation Manager Dick Little || demning the rich for their incon-
Collections Manager Tommy Douglas sideration of the poor. During the

h
Batered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, || ‘ucihors orrtinal bis wav owe
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1607.

and dictate his new theory of eco-

|
J’p Ling to Give Vou WHAT You DESERVE Too, MR JonEs,

ONLY The O@ANS GRADING SYSTEM Doesn't Go rHat tow!"

Expert On Korean Situation Is The Fair
Haired Boy Of The Golden Twenties

By RONALD WILSON

nomics to a secretary. In the midst
of this social fervor he met Doris
Duke, followed her to Europe, mar-
ried her and launched off on a
round-the-world honeymoon. Jimmy
had just associated himself with
another $100 million. Upon their
return, they moved out to Doris’ 60
room hideaway in Hawaii for Jim
to finish his book.

He finished his book, “In De-
fense of Capitalism,” in which he
propounded a ‘theory of Synchron-
ization, including, among other
things, birth control and govern-
ment loans on which the govern.
ment would pay the recipient 6%

interest for the privilege of lend-
ing him the money. Having failed
to interest Roosevelt or any of the
New Dealers in his plan, he was
appointed as Minister to Canada.
Later, as he informed us last
Wednesday, he became American
advisor to Syngman Rhee and
chairman of the Korean-American
Council. In this capacity he ap-
parently become aware of the Com-
munist threat in China, Korea and
the Far East. Yet it seems incon-
ceivable, if he had such knowledge,
that a man with his financial and
political power could not get in to
(Continued On Page Four)

College Communists
(The following is the result of a special inquiry at the Uni-
versity of Kansas and was originally printed there in the Daily
Kansen. We reprint it here in an effort to eliminate subversives
on this campus. Eds.)

Attention Joe McCarthy: It you want to know the
secret behind Communism in the colleges, seek no fur-
ther. Here is the answer.

Teachers may be divided into five classifications:

1. Those who give you A’s—Good, red-blooded, 100
per cent Americans.

2. Those who give you B’s—have good standing
in the community, vote the Republican ticket.

3. Those who give you C’s—caution, there may be
infiltration here. These are common, ordinary men with
the usual weaknesses.

4. Those who give you D’s—definitely socialistic,
have shady pasts. A thorough investigation should begin
with these men. .

5. Those who give you F’s—catch these quick. They're
not only tainted red, they have definite ringleader
tendencies.

Simple, isn’t it?

Campus capers call for Coke

Commencement’s a big day
+80 get off to the right start.
Pause for a frosty bottle of delicious Coca-Cola
and be refreshed.

speak

THE FREE LANCE:

Davidsonian’s “Q:

uiet Men”

Are Well Prepared For Life

Today ends an era for this writer.
At least it ends for awhile. Seldom
in the world of men can anyone
proceed to write the truth or even
the truth in language
straight from the shoulder.

Seldom are a man’s respon-
sibilities so little that he can be rel-
atively free from fear of retribu-

tion. As one assumes the burdens
of keeping @ salaried position, of

maintaining a household, of feed-

ing many mouths, one’s powers of
speech are progressively limited.

Here at Davidson the only re-

course is for a man to write a let-

ter to the editor or call a man

before a board of the faculty. Here
we are not faced with the heart-

breaking connotations of the word

“tact.”

The term “academic freedom
of speech” means little to the
average student here. He has
the right fo talk beck to his
professors, but he either deems
it impolite or realizes that the
answer which the prof might
give would be just as monoton-
ous as his lecture.

The result is that both profes-
sors and students grow dull and
inexorably inculcated with the
Davidson system of memorizing
notes and then quoting them on
reviews so as to be able to write
home about what wonderful grades
one is making.

Perhaps it is well that many
of us learn that it is wrong to
argue with our elders. Well be-
cause the greater part of us
go forth at one time or another
beund to live up te the nebul-
ous conception the public has
of “The Davidson Maen.”

If we were - excessively agres-
sive, it would be bad on those who

made a fetish of docility. If we

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN J)INNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132

418 South Main Street

STONESTREET'S

Grade A Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.

GOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF INE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N C.

"Sala! bo @ reghtered trade-marks

© 1002, Tys COCA-COLA COMPANY

By JOHN OTTLEY

went about life with anything but) bargain to many of us.

gaping mouths crying to be fed, Bravo, Masquers

it might give a different impression| According to local cuphemist

of our prep school. Michael Myers, the score usually

Perhaps it is well thet we | reads “Students play Hamlet. Ham-

are quiet men. There reaily |!et loses.” We feel that this was
isn't much to disagree about, |very definitely not the case with
though, is there? We all be- {this week's drama.
tleve, and love, and hope. Our Though Mizelle came close
folks before us did. Gur teach- te stealing the show, Currie

ers do. Why argue about things held down the lead in his best
which are obvious from the appearance on the local stege
day we enter? : so far. A fitting bow out to col-

lege dramatics.

Miss Whittle was obviously
frightened, but did not muff her
lines, and made up for a notice-
able Southern accent with a very
good portrayal of Ophelia insane.

A young man worth the at-
tention of the Masquers is Fred
Summers. He captivated the
tiret night audience with his
hendiing of the gravedigger.
Not often can a college man
catch the spirit of Sheke-
speare’s humor and get the
audience to chuckle at it.
Summers exhibitea a fundament-

al grasp of the playwrite’s inten-
tion as well as some honest hard
work at learning his part.

The staging was quite good and
we thought especially worthwhile
the mist effected at the play's
opening and once Jater.

With A Bang

It might be expected that the
Free Lance would slip into the
typical gribberish which is ex-
pected of many men who leave
positions of one kind of another,
or that it might boast.

Such is usually sccompanied
by an idea in the writer that
he has been wrong all along
and thet he loves Davidson as
much as the next fellow —
deep underneath.

If this had ever been the case
with us, we doubt if we would have
been able to write a single column.

When a man begins such an
enterprise as this has been,
he is in complete contro! of
his thoughts and is more or
fess free to say anything he
wishes. We feel this is a good

Why make ourselves unhappy
with questions? Davidson is a quiet
place for your son, for our sons.
News of a new highway promises
to make it quieter.

i¢ may some day become

North Carolina’s biggest little
place to come and die. Come
when the noise of life to which
we never grew accustomed be-
comes a bit too grating on
cur ears. Come back within
the walls.

The Free Lance has erred. It is
not memorable that we who leave
are entering on a life of society-
enforced silence. It is nothing new.
We have been well prepared for
life in the midst of bosses and
foremen. Let them be leaders who
know best how to follow.

We follow with amazing dex-
terity.

Hark Philanthropists

For those who feel morally obli-
gated to contribute funds to the
college after graduation, a kind
of bonus: plan has been devised to
make it easier and something of
a business venture.

It hopes not only to bolster the
college’s coffers, but to stimulate
more alumni interest in the old
school on the idea that most men
are concerned with what is done
with their money.

This is inedequate thinking,
but no great crime has been
commited in telling men
such is the case. Interest, we
believe, has a dower price on
ite head than ectual green-
backs.

It is a weird sort of bargain this
trading money for an idea that
Davidson has made us supermen,| situation from which to write.
and rather discounts the fact that; To slobber would be to say that
we have been shelling out some|we had not been in control of our
$1500 each year in the way of a/thoughts. Thus we end not with a
service fee. But a bargain is a'whimper but with a bang.

HOME BY
GREYHOUND

CHARLOTTE, N. C. .... 50 WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60
ROCK HILL, SC. ...... $120 GREENSBORO, N.C. _. $2.00
ATLANTA, GA. ....-.-- $6.90 RICHMOND, VA. ...... $7.15

Plus U. &. Tes. Save an EXTRA 10% Rach Way With a Round Trip Ticket.

C. 8. GOODRUM, Agent
Atlantic Greyhound Lines
Davidson, N. C.

“e?
_—w :

a

7 an. () Lae
