FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1953

DAVIDSON

THEATRE

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike Myers /Tain Wilson Talks
C. Elections To S. C. Students

PAGE FOUR
SENIOR SKETCH NO. 6:

engineering, damage control and
operations.

To qualify for line officer's can-
didate school, a person must he a
college graduate, be petween the

Four D. C. Alumni
Complete Course
In Naval O. C. S.

Village Machine Again Controls D.

“As the village goes, so goes
the college.”
Wade Hampton had his machine

in S. C. and Huey’s boys were the' | °
terror of the South. But these’ —

~- hd

Y am

rest of the year will be the de-
termining factor.

V-S headquarters are Club 101,
Village. There: one sees a messy
room filled with cigar smoke and
the sound of ticker tape machines.

machines were simple tools com.)
pared to the steamroller known as
“Village Syndicate.”

The V-S is one of Davidson's old-
est traditions, having been handed
down now for some six generations,
all of which have taken the oath
to “combat inefficiency and graft”.
Their method of accomplishing this
end is simple: they contro! our
elections.

A candidate not backed by V-S
has never gotten as far as speech-
making. A backed man. who bucks
the machine at the last minute
is taken for a ride with pressure
applied. A notable example was re-
cently entered in the V-S hooks
in red ink as “H. Ward — can-
didate ‘decided’ to withdraw after
refusing to pay weekly protection
dues and short talk from the boys
— at last minute the machine
swung to Williams, a member in
good standing.”

All such entries are handled
through Mayor Dick Perkins who
is noted for his short-sightedness
in handling such cases. “The boys”

|
| {
|

the V-S's vice.

SPONSORS FOR DAVIDSON SPRING FROLICS

» Shown above are the young women who will
be sponsors for the annual Spring Frolics, spon-
sored by the Interfraternity Council of Davidson
College tomorrow evening and Saturday evening,
in Johnston Gymnasium at Davidson. Ray An-
thony and his orchestra will play for the two af-
fairs, the chief social event of the year at David-
son. Jo Ann Greer will be the featured soloist
with the orchestra. A formal dance is planned
for Fridsy evening, a concert Saturday after-
noon and an informal dance Saturday evening.
The sponsors shown are (left to right), top row,
Miss Betty Bowen of Tallahassee, Fla., for Charles
Cousar, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Betty Kate Jones

of Thomasville for Jack Ruth, Beta Theta Pi; Miss
Gena Faires of Stanley for Mercer Kepler, The
Campus Club; Miss Joan Rogers of LaFollette,
Tenn., for Allen Vance, Kappa Alpha; second row,

ItS EASY Like TYtac A SHoECACE--

$s

s+ PERHAPS A TRIFLE SUACK.-

a

af: ®
li ok .
On a close vote an aspiring junior is refused permission by the
Village Syndicate to run for cheerleader in next week's election.

a)!
&
-

&

Miss Barbara Kirkley of Cheraw, S. C., for Dick
Keller, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Marlene Hed.
rick of Lenoir for Joe Neisler, Sigma Phi Epsilon;
Miss Lou Pasley of Decatur, Ga., for Harold
Duke Fowler, Alpha Tau Omega; Miss Betty Jo
Banks of Charlotte for Lawrence Erwin, Pi Kappa
Phi; third row, Miss Mary Jane Bowers of Rich-
mond, Va., for Malcolm Doubles, Phi Gamma
Delta; Miss Betty Hoover of Concord for Rodney
Howell, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Nancy Barnhardt
of Lenoir for Charlie Simmons, Kappa Sigma. Law-
rence Erwin of Morganton is president of the
Interfraternity Council; Dick Kelley of Hartsville,
8. C., is secretary; and Allen Vance of Bristol,
Tenn., is treasurer. Not shown in the picture is
Miss Olivia Bishop of Montreat College, sponso:
for John LaMotte, Sigma Chi.

are composed of head muscle man, syndicates program to date: slot
Dan Glenn known as “musclehead”| machines outlawed, no women in
at the police farce, and vice chair-|the village after 10:00 — in the
man George Thomas who arranges; morning, planned street dances
with Chinese lanterns, and numer-

In an extemporanious speech} Us teas in the immediate future.
after the humorist chapel program He hinted that Bill Morris is being
yesterday, Mayor Perkins, succes- considered for a high position in
sor to Bill McNealy, outlined the|the V-S next year. His behavior the

s
a,
Vi

“ALLOW FOR COMFORTANE ERENT.

* AVOID YEATrcHe LIMES +

7+ AATY

o> UMDESIARGLE Wiksemn EffecT~ “USE ScSSoas fa coose ENS + Gerrer Tay A corp-ow ne!

The Big Three — Perkins, Thomas
and Glenn — sit behind identical
desks answering phones, compiling
lists and checking results.

Until 9:00 at ‘night they arrange
campaigns for their men, select
cannon fodder to be thrown into
the elections to enhance their
mens’ chances, call on umpredict-
able seniors whose votes cannot
always be successfully predicted.
At 9:00 sharp the interviews begin.
A meek underclassman, who has
previously requested an appoint-
ment, is led in and thoroughly ex-
amined to see if his policy closely
follows the one outlined for him.
He is then voted on. Next he must

(Editors note: At this point Mr.
Myers’ report is incomplete. He has
been missing for two days and is
believed to be in the hands of V-S.
The last paragraph of his interview
has been stamped through with
black ink, “Unfit for Publication.
y. §")

Next week: John Mason.

John M. Brown...

(Continued From Page One)
and physically. Under the spell of
his conversational oratory his lis-
teners are usually raring to go out
and build a theatre with their bare
hands by the time the lecture is
over. The theatre, however, is only
one of his many interests, and his
audiences find him touching on
any and every phase of the current
scene.

Davidson College students will
be admitted on presentation of
thier LD. cards.

Spaniards...
(Continued From Page One)
‘ta Rotary Scholarship, and Jinks
:Jervey. Following that, Argerie
and a friend of hers, Carolyn Le-
Gette, also of Queens, sang a duet,
Guaria Morade, one of the best
known of the Costa Rican songs.
Next Argerie spoke in Spanish
to tell of her native country, Costa
Rica. She proved to be a very
talented speaker as wel] as a very
charming person.

Eight Fraternities . . .
(Continued From Page One)
worthy usher Alexander McGeachy,
worthy sentinel Charles Lambert,
keeper of annuals Andy Simons,
boarding house manager Phil
Koonce, IFC representative Mar-
shall Pitts, and sports manager

Bob Stewart.

Members of Sigma Phi Epsilon
have elected the following officers:
president Fred Stowe, vice-presi-
dent Vince Gould, secretary Henry
Brockman, treasurer Jess Lockaby,
and IFC representative Joe Neisler.

Newly elected president of Pi
Kappa Alpha Fraternity is Milton
Craig. Others holding offices in-
clude: vice-president Fred Sum-
mers, treasurer Ricky Benton, sec-
retary Buck Reinhardt, and IFC
representative Bob Owens.

Vance Rountree is new president
of the Campus Club, and Clark
Reed is vice-president. Dewey Her-
ring is treasurer, Leighton Mc-
Cutchen was elected secretary, and
Al Wells is IFC representative.

Watkins...

(Continued From Page One)

Under the direction of Lt. Col.
Eugene A. Dees, chief of the Third
Army ROTC branch, the inspec-
tions will be conducted by 13 teams
of officers and will cover 105 ROTC
and ROTC.affiliated units in seven
southeastern states.

The inspections are designed to
determine the efficiency of the
unit, the unit’s role in the life of
the school, and the efficiency of
the utilization of government pro-
perty.

CAMP CAROLINA

FOR BOYS

- « « located in the moun-
tains of North Cerolina
needs counselors for cabin
duties and to assist in tennis,

golf, boxing, archery, or
other camp sports and ac-
tivities. Apply fo Richard R.

Bernard, 163 Ridgewood
Avenue, Hamden 14, Con-
necticut.

Rev. Iain Wilson, Professor of
Religion will be the principal Sam D. McDaniel, Jr., Ramon
speaker when the students from R. Hart, Philip M. Zibby, Jr., and
16 South Carolina colleges meet at|Richard 3B. Barnwell recently
Camp Long near Aiken on April graduated from the U. S. Naval
2426 for the annual spring con- Officer Candidate School in New-

ference of the South Carolina State | ®t: Rhode Island. These men are
Student Christian Association. | "ecent-year graduates of Davidson.

The State SCA represents the; OVer one thousand persons
combined efforts of the Student watched the impressive ceremony
Christian Associations and “Y’| 5 Captain Harold O. Larson, USN,
groups in South Carolina colleges. |ASsistant Chief of Naval Person-

Mr. Wilson was the principal nel for Education and Training,

speaker at the University of South made the presentation of diplomas.
Carolina's Religious Emphasis} These new officers will join
Week during 1951. The author of|other CCS graduates already serv-
numerous articles on religion, short |ing on every type of combatant
stories and poetry, Mr. Wilson is| aad non-combatant ship in the
married and has three children. | fleet.

In addition to his teaching duties; In four months of intensive study
in the Department of Religion at| and training, these men have cov-
Davidson College, Rev. Mr. Wilson|ered the same naval subjects that
is presently serving as the Chair-| college NROTC students do in four
man of the Board of Directors of} years. Foremost in their study was
the Davidson YMCA. gunnery, navigation, seamanship,

During the three day meeting at
Camp Long, Mr. Wilson will ad-
dress the student delegates four
times, using as his general theme
the study of the Holy Bible. His
addresses will be “Why Read The
Bible? — A Study in Incentives,”
“God’s Word in History,” “God's

Word in Individual Life,” and
“God’s Word in Jesus Christ.” In
addition to Rev. Mr. Wilson's ad-
dresses which will come during
the morning and evening worship
periods, the weekend will consist
of numerous workshop or study
groups and periods of recreation.

ages of 19 and 27, and pass a rigid
physical examination. The only ex-
ception to age limitation are can-
didates for restricted line commis-
sions who may be between the
ages of 19 and 33.

THURS.-FRI-APRIL 16-17

“JEOPARDY”
BARBARA STANWYCK,
BARRY SULLIVAN

SATURDAY, APRIL 18
NEW CARS

“THE THIEF OF
DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF VENICE”
Dial 3-4513 MARIA MONTEZ,
212 W. Forth Charlotte PAUL CHRISTIAN

MON.-TUES.,APRIL 20-21

“MONTANA BELLE”

JANE RUSSELL,
GEORGE BRENK

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN I)INNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22

“SEVENTH VEIL”

JAMES MASON,
Phone 132 ANN TODD
418 South Main Street
STONESTREET'S ||| 90° 7m
Grade A Cafe SHOW ON EARTH”

FOUR BIG DAYS
APRIL 29 TO MAY 2

Mooresville, N. C.

a)
LS
S

IF YOU CAN WIN

Par tala
ee, —

(ae

THESE WINGS YOU CAN EARN OVER
$9,000 A YEAR AFTER GRADUATION

Important facts about the opportunities for YOU
as a Commissioned Officer—Pilot or Aircraft Observer —

Must Ibe a college graduate to take Aviation Cadet Training?

No. But you must have completed a minimum of 60 semester
hours or 90 quarter hours toward a degree. In addition, under
the new Aviation Cadet training program, you must be be-
tween the ages of 19 and 261% years, unmarried, and in good
physical condition—with high requirements for eyes, ears,
heart and teeth. R

How long before | get my commission?

60 calendar weeks. You will receive the finest aviation training
in the world—training that not only equips you to fly modern
military aircraft but prepares you for executive and administra-
tive work as well. At the completion of your training, you will
have acquired a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant and the
coveted silver wings of the United States Air Force.

Where do I take my training?

Pre-flight training will be at Lackland Air Force Base, San
Antonio, Texas. Primary, basic and advanced training will be
taken at any one of the many Air Force bases located throughout
the South and Southwest.

What happens if | flunk the training course?

Every effort is made to help students whose progreas is unsatis-
factory. You can expect extra instructions and whatever indi-
vidual attention you may require. However, if you fail to
complete the course as an Aviation Cadet, you will be required
toserve a two-year enlistment to fulfill the minimum requirement
under Selective Service laws. Veterans who have completed a
tour of military service will be discharged upon request if they
fail to complete the course. .

What pay do I get as an Aviation Cadet? And after?

As an Aviation Cadet you draw $109.20 a month pay. In
addition, you get summer and winter uniforms, flight clothes,
equipment, food, housing, medical and dental care and insurance
--.-all free. After you are commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant you
will be earning $5,300.00 a year—with unlimited opportunities
for advancement.

Are all Aviation Cadets trained to be Pilots?

No. You can choose between becoming a Pilot or an Aircraft
Observer. Men who choose the latter will become commissioned
Officers in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or
Aircraft Performance Engineering.

in the United States Air Force

er 3

Do Aircraft Observers get flying training, too?

Yes. Aircraft Observer Cadets receive approximately 200 hours
of “in the air” instructions. The primary phase of Aircraft
Observer training is the same for all branches (navigation,
bombardment, etc.). The basic and advanced phases of training
vary, depending on the specific course you pursue.

What kind of airplanes will | fy?

You will fly jeta. The Pilot Cadet takes his first instructions in
a light, civilian-type plane of approximately 100 horsepower,
then graduates to the 600 horsepower T-6 “Texan” before
receiving transition training in jets. You then advance gradually
until you are flying such famous first-line aircraft as F-86 Sabre,
F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet, B-60 Superfortress. Obeerver
Cadets take flight instructions in the C-47 Dakota, the T-29
Convair, and the TB-60 Superfortress before advancing to first-
line aircraft such as the F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet.

Will my commision be in the Regular Air Force or Reserve?

Aviation Cadet graduates, both Pilots and Aircraft Observers,
get Reserve commissions as 2nd Lieutenants and become eligible
to apply for a regular Air Force Commission when they have
completed 18 months of active duty.

How long must | remain in Service?

After graduation from the Aviation Cadet Program, you are
tendered an indefinite appointment in the United States Air
Force Reserve and are called to active duty with the United
States Air Force for a period of three years.

What recreation and leisure time will | have as a Cadet?

Discipline will be rigid—especially for the first few weeks.
However, it is not all work. You'll find swimming pools, handball
courts, movies and other forms of recreation on the post.

Where will | be stationed when | get my commission?

You may be stationed anywhere in: the world ... Hawaii, Far
East, Europe, Puerto Rico, elsewhere. During your tour of duty,
you will be in close touch with the latest developments in new
flying techniques. You will continue to build up your flying
experience and later should have no difficulty securing a CAA
commercial pilot or navigator rating.

Your future is assured if you can qualify! Here's what to do:

!
2

4

Take a transcript, of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest
Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.

If application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical
examination at government expense.

Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.

If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an
Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you
a four-month deferment while waiting class assignment.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS

Visit your nearest Air Force Base, Alr Force Recruiting Officer,
or your nea rest Air Force ROTC Unit. Or write to:
AVIATION CAD ET, HEADQUARTERS, U. S. AIR FORCE
Washington 25, D. C.

