FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1953 . , THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

With the new con- ‘

ference arrange ment Last Appearance Of Big Schools

===Net Finalists Meet Saturday Afternoon

Carolina, Duke In Singles Cindermen, Linksters
With Sylvia Still Favored |p Tournament Action

last week we can better
appreciate Davidson's

This weekend, seven Southern Conference teams are battling it out here at Davidson for By ANDY TURNER
the Conference tennis championship. Play got under way yesterday morning and are slated

position and look
™ forward to the future
§ of Wildcat sports from
this entirely new slant.
In the hope that we
will not repeat our-
selves or make this just
so much dull and dead
copy we wish to state

Five Teams Choose
Future Leaders
During Last Week

Along with the other sports

.

:

the official Davidson
feeling and _ position
regarding the “new” Southern Conference. This column was
devoted last week to vague general statements about the con-
ference as nothing definite had developed at that time.

Now Davidson is a member of a ten, or possibly nine,
member conference with all the members more or less of the
game size and who put more or less the same emphasis on their
sports programs.

DOLE GIVES DAVIDSON’S POSITION IN SPORTS

In speaking the other day with head football coach Bill
Dole we feel that we found the answer for which this writer
and those in the past have been searching. That is, the answer
to the question of just where Davidson stands or would like
to stand in relation to intercollegiate competition of the ath-
letic field.

“I feel that my views more or less represent those held by
the faculty and the administration in general,” said the popular
Wildcat mentor. “Davidson stands for acedemics above ath-
letics and that has been the position held even in the con-
ference before the split.”

Even when the larger universities and colleges in the
old conference were competing on the semi-professional basis
of highly subsidized athletics Davidson has always stood for
amateur sports with the proper balance between scholarship
and athletic participation.

“Davidson never has been, and never will be, the home of
champions. We don’t go at athletics along those lines. We're
out to give our competitors a good hard struggle and to win
at least half our games. We're not out to win them all.”

A WINNER OCCASIONALLY IS FINE

“A championship team now and then is fine especially
for the morale of the players and of the fans. It’s that we
don’t teach the boys to play their best and use all their abilities,
but rather we seek to meet the caliber of team which will
really test our ability and skill.”

Dole then pointed out that, “This league split is obvious-
ly just the thing for which Davidsonians have been hoping for
a long time. It gives an opportunity to form the type of league
that we have always wanted with athletic scholarships set at
a minimum among all the schools left in the conference.”

Davidson officials now seem to hold the opinion generally
that the more or less standardized subsidization which we seek
is within their grasp as most of the other remaining member
schools are in sympathy with the Davidson aims.

When questioned concerning the freshman rule which has
been much discussed and criticized Dole stated the opinion
that freshmen will continue to be ineligible for varsity.
competition even after the big schools have withdrawn from
the conference.

FRESHMAN RULE WILL PROBABLY STAY

Said Dole, “There are good arguments on both sides con-
cerning this freshman ineligibility rule. On the negative side
there is the consideration of the added coaching staff, equip-
ment, facilities necessary, all of which require considerable
funds. On the other side of the fence, many people hold to
the opinion that the adjustment from high school to college is
too great to allow them to be thrown in with the varsity
athletes in the first year. Also there is the feeling that the
freshman makes better grades if he is not in varsity competi-
tion. These are just a few of the pro’s and con’s of this question.
However, the rule will probably hold for next year anyway.”

Now that the first smoke has cleared from the negotia-
tions in the historic Greensboro meeting of the conference last
weekend we can better sec how the league will be set up.

The two major surprises of last week’s meetings were
the conceeding of the $160,000 conference treasury and the
immediate character of the split. We felt last week that the
new league could not possibly get into operation until the sea-
son beginning in the fall of 1955. However, the two leagues
will take their separate ways starting next season.

NEW LEAGUES WILL OPERATE NEXT FALL

The “Big Seven”, as they may possibly be dubbed, will

° compete for a football championship next fall and then will

Yhold the regular basketball show at Raleigh next spring. They

will also carry the conference tournaments in the various

minor sports. The main difference lies in the fact that all the
teams will compete in the basketball tournament.

The remainder of the Wildcat coaching staff is also great-
ly pleased by the new league setup. It has generally been
the concensus of opinion all over the campus that dear old
D.C. at last has a good chance in athletics.

In football, for instance, Coach Dole is slowly building
a fine team to represent the Red and Black on the gridiron.
Next year’s squad will lack the depth so necessary to avoid
the ruining of the team by injury, but the first string should
be the strongest in recent Davidson history. Also Dole revealed
that a “fine bunch of freshmen will be on their way to David-
son come next fall and they should make a fine team in '55.”

So at last this writer is able to write with an optimistic
outlook as things really seem to “be looking up” in the field
of Wildcat sports. Washington & Lee, VPI, VMI, William &
Mary, George Washington, Davidson, Furman, Citadel, and
West Virginia (Probably will drop out)—the “new Southern
Conference.

By JOHN HANDLEY

festivities which transpired at the
Athletic Banquet held last Mon-
day evening at Johnston Gym, the
captains of most of the Wildcat
1953-54 teams were announced by
the various coaches.

For the “up and coming” foot-
ballers next fall Ben Craig will]:
serve as captain while Neil Gra-
ham will fill the alternate roll.
“Big Ben” and “Punchy” are both
linemen who saw regular action
during the last campaign.

Bill Shipley and Homer Sparks
will act as Co-Captains for the track
squad next season: Shipley is the} ©
Wildcat’s ace 440 man while Sparks
is the leading two-miler. Both will

be seniors next season.

As was announced earlier in the
year George Crone will captain the
Cat tankmen while Johnny Buxton
will lead the grapplers. Crone is|s
now a junior and Buxton is a
sophomore.

The final announcement dealt
with the tennis forces who will be
led by soph ace Lacy Keesler.
Lacy has been one of the leading
men in the Southern Conference|
and will probably be one of the top
performers in the new league.

Softball Ends In Tie
As Delts Win Tennis

By DON PILKENTON
The Phi Gams came from behind to tie the Kappa Alpha
softballers for the Inter-Fraternity championship this week,
at the end of a four-week long season.

DEFENDER

DEL SYLVIA
Cerolina Ace

-{is again favored to win the tourna-

i! Johnny Bremer were both elimin-
-}ated in early singles matches.

to conclude tomorrow afternoon with the singles and doubles final events. After the singles
events yesterday afternoon there were only Duke and Carolina contenders in today’s race.

North Carolina, led by defending
conference champion Del Sylvia,

ment. Sylvia.is a heavy favorite to
cop the individual honors, and
Herb Browne and Bobby Payne
will defend the doubles title that
the two Tar Heels won last year.

Duke, Davidson Strong

Falling in right behind North
Carolina are Duke and Davidson,
either of whom could easily take
charge of the situation, should
Carolina fall to the sidelines.
Duke’s aces, Kes Deimling and
Norm? Schellenger, are again top
contenders for the title, while
Davidson’s Lacy Keesler and

Wake Forest, V.P.1., The Citadel,
and West Virginia have also en-

-! tered teams in the tournament, but

past. performances seem to point

em (to a three-way battle between Duke,
id) Davidson, and North Carolina.

The drawing for matches of the
tournament was held Wednesday
night in Johnston Gymnasium. The
seeding of twelve top players out
of the field of forty-two entrees
was also made.

Sylvia No. 1
Sylvia was selected as Number
One. Lacy Keesler was seeded No.

Although by Wednesday some
teams in the circuit had still to play
one or two more games, the field
is holding sufficiently steady, more
or less, to ascertain the probable
standings by looking at the records
of games through this Tuesday re-
corded below.

The faltering Sig Eps who won
the Inter-Fraternity softball “pen-
nant” last year were still holding
third place as of Thursday morn-
ing, and will probably continue in
that position through their last
two games. .

The Pikas have lifted themselves
into the first division where it is
likely that they will remain.

The Sigma Chis who, so far, have
the only other record of more wins
than losses have all but assured
themselves a fifth place for the
season.

The Phi Delta Thetas have wrap-
ped up the coveted first place
honors in this season’s tennis com-
petition with a 10-0 record so far
in the season.

Second, third, and fourth posi-
tions are still doubtful with the
Kappa Sigs (6-1), the Sig Eps (5-2),
and the Phi Gams (4-2) still well
in the running for a berth next to
the leading Phi De'lts.

Make-up games were still being
played this week, but it is doubt-
ful if all will be completed before
the end of the 1953 season. It was
not yet known whether or ‘not
Coach Whittle, Intra-mural sports
director will. allow the teams to
make up all their postponed games.

However, regardless of this de-
cision, the year's Inter-Fraternity
sports competition will come to a
close this week.

Softball
KAs 10-1
Phi Gams - 10-1
Sig Eps —......... 6-2
Pikas 2.
Sigma Chis .....  _...___ 66
ATOs ______.._.________. #8
Pi Kapps 46
Kappa Sigs 46
Phi Delts 3-6
Betas 14
Campus Club 16
SAEs 0-7
Tennis
Phi Delts 10-0
Kappa Sigs 61
Sig Eps 5-2
Phi Gams 42
Campus Club 3-2
ATOs 32
KAs 34
SAEs 23
Sigma Chis 2-5
Pikas ——-——. 2-6
Betas 16
Pi Kapps 0-9

2, followed by Tom Bradford of
Carolina and Deimling of Duke.
The other seeded players are
Herb Browne of Carolina, Norm
Schellenger of Duke, Davidson’s
Johnny Bremer, Buzzy Hettleman
of Duke, Koester of The Citadel,
Scrivenor of V.P.L, West Virginia's
Unk Barber, and Wake Forest's
William Allred.

The action of the tournament
was due to get under way on Thurs-
day morning at 10 a. m., with the

Joe Dudley Awar ded doubles matches getting started ot
; four o'clock.
"Tom Deters’ Honor: Finals Tomorrow
if The finals of the singles and
doubles are to be held on Saturday
Cobb Best Frosh afternoon, with the semi-finals
probably being played Saturday
Departing senior Joe Dudley was| morning. The tournament is to
named this week to be the winner |be match play, with one loss elim-
of the most coveted sports honor | inating a player. The matches will
on the campus — the Tommy|be determined by the winner of
Peters Trophy. Dudley, a two sport | two-out-of-three sets, except in the
man, has best examplified during |semi-finals and finals where the
his college career what a true decision is three-out-of-five sets.
Davidson athlete is considered to] Oliver (Bo) Roddey, former
be. Davidson star who was Southern
Joe was Captain and high scorer Conference champion, will be the
for the basketball team last winter | ficial referree, who has charge
and is now engaged in winding up
his Davidson sports career in his
No. 4 position out on the tennis
courts. ‘
Others of the annual awards
which were made at the Athletic
Banquet last Monday included the
highest freshman athletic recogni-
tion — the “Best Freshman Ath-
lete” award of the “D” club which
went to Hobby Cobb.
The Armfield Blocking Trophy
went to sophomore Dickie Davis,
who was also the recipient of the
Stowe Scholarship.
The new Dick Redding Trophy
for swimming went to Jim Bryan
while the Wray High Point Trophy
went to sophomore Al Ormond for
the second straight year. The also
new Elgin White Golf trophy went
to “one of the finest young golfers
in the country (quote Coach White)
Graeme Keith.
The “D” Club made three special
presentations in the awarding to
Jimmy Thacker of the “All-State”
award for his football and the same
award to Joe Dudley for his basket-
ball. An extra tribute was made
to ever-faithful ‘Doc’ White which

Set efter set, on any playing sur-
face, these Twins of Champion-

he received before the standing| hip Tennie deliver “new ball
ovation given him by the Davidson| Pet formance...maintain their
sports fans gathered at the annual precision-built accuracy of flight
affair. and bounce!

In every National Championship,
U. S. Davis Cup and Wightman
Cup match... in major tourna-
ments everywhere .. . Spalding-
made tennis balls are the Official
choice. Try a Spalding or Wright
& Ditson and you'll know why.

Bill Gramley, big Reynolds high
school (Winston-Salem) tackle is
reported to be heading to Davidson
next fall. Bill would be a big asset
to Coach Bill Dole’s football Wild-
eats should he enter here.

Former Davidson coach, Buddy
Chandler, Davidson ‘50, has re-
signed his coaching post at Bridge-
water College in Virginia and has
entered private business with the
Virginia-North Carolina Chemical
Co. He now resides in Greensboro,
N. C.

Sets the Pace tn Tennis

LONG LIFE!

Coach Pete Whittle’s tracksters and Coach Elgin White’s
linksters close out their season this weekend in their respec-
tive conference tournaments. The tracksters are at Durham,
NO. 1 WILDCAT and the linksters are at Winston-Salem. Both teams finished

the season with good records and should make a good
. showing in the conference “big shows.”

The track team pushed its rec-
ord to 6-3, the best of any of the
athletic teams on the campus this
year, by routing N. C. State 84-47
last Saturday. They took 12 of the
15 first places. The team was
sparked by the running of Mitch-
ener, Henry, and Sparks, who each
turned in their best collegiate
times.

Mitchener In Top Form

Mitchener, who turned in an 9.8
100 yd. dash against State, and
Koonce, star freshman, are sched-
uled for the 100 and 220 dashes in
the conference meet.

Henry and Shipley will go the
880 and 440 respectively. Henry

just missed the school record by
two tenths of a second in the 880
Saturday; he did it in 1:59.9. Ship-
ley has been a constant winner all
season; he finished third in the
conference indoor meet in the 440
in February:

Sparks will run the strenuous
two miles, while Russel and Good-
ing go in the mile. Sparks did the
2-mile in 10:10 against State and
should repeat tomorrow in the con-
ference meet. Russel did a 4:32
earlier in the season in the mile.

Relayers Compete
J. V. Howell, Frank Mitchener,

(Continued On Page Four)

«

i)
LACY KEESLER
Beaten Yesterday

From Our | Floor

of the tournament. Marshall Reed
will be the chief umpire.

New scoreboards are being .used
in the tournament. They will re-
cord the progress of each individ-
ual match, so that the audience
will be kept informed. The name
of the player who is participating
and the school he represents will
be given in addition to the score.
All matches after the first round
will be officiated.

SALE
CONTINUES

BEST WISHES
FOR A NICE
VACATION!

For Commencement
And Graduation

WILSON-WRIGHTS

Collegiate Fashions
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PALM BEACH
FORMALS

You'll be amazed by the lightness, the
“easy elegance of these new Palm
Beach formals . . . they’re perfect for
Commencement and graduation.

Paim Beach White Dinner Jackets,
29.95. Sizes 34 to 42 — Regulars and
longs.

Palm Beach Midnight Blue formal
slacks, 12.95. Sizes 28 to 36 waist —
Regulers and longs.

Palm Beach “Year ‘round Weight’
Tuxedo, single breasted, shawi collar,
45.00. Sizes 34 to 42 — Regulars and
longs.

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

