PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEELY THROUGHOUT THE
COLLEGE YEAR ,

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .........-..--.-.-------- Frank Haashaw
BUSINESS MANAGER Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ......---...--------.------- John Ottley
Associate Editors ..-----.  -------- Brinkley, Harter, Hope,
Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
mew en ween cnn nnn ee weeenne nnn onenee Dick Roper
Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.

| ¢

Managing Editors ..........-.-..-
Spogts Editor
News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy

k
é

Photographer .....----....-..----..-..---..-.---------- Simons
Assistant Business Manager .....-.-------.--.---------- Poston
Advertising Manager an eneceneen nna ennnneeenenenmnennn= Hasty |, i
Circulation Manager -.-.....-..-----~-------~------- Nicholson | <2
Collection Manager ~.........-......--.---.--2------ Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897,

Orchids To Lawrence Erwin
For Programs Well Condutcted

The past three weeks have probably been routine for the
average Davidson student with little or no excitement other
than a few reviews, the thought of an approaching dance week
end, or some comment over the College Union issue. |

But there is one man who we feel merits special mention
for his very capable handling of three recent difficult pro-
grams. This man is Lawrence Erwin, president of the Inter-
Fraternity Council, who has been faced with the College Union
situation affecting the fraternities, Greek Week, and the Mid
Winter Dances, all within a three week period.

He has shown a sincere desire to approach the administra-
tion in the proper way in respect to the union issue, and we
feel that the student body appreciates the vast amount of time
put into presentation of arguments by the members of the
steering committee representing the fraternities. This writer
feels that it was not only the wise approach to take, but the
right one.

This mature approach has gained more consideration by
the Trustees and Administration for student body feeling
than any violent or radical action could have hoped to bring.

Greek Week has gained more support and interest this year
from the student body as its good points are being realized.
A great deal of planning was undertaken by the IFC in the
various committees in attempting to improve each phase of
the Greek Week activity. Quite a bit of experience has been —A. Huxley.
gained from the past two years and a steady improvement in|} who says there aren't? With a
the all-round program should be forthcoming each year if] little thought, my pretties, you can
more student support can be gained. ty ota woh ane this

No comment is needed about this gala Mid Winters weekend} nance Weekend business is new to
which features Charlie Spivak along with our best date. The} some of you welcome guests, the
IFC has certainly picked the tops in bands this year with Mor-|civic-minded Davidsonien presents

. : {for the Midwinters festivities the
ron Spivak and Anthony high on our list for the best in enter first annual Loudmouth Guide, or

Straight From the Horse’s Mouth
Then it’s orchids to Lawrence Erwin for bringing meaning| From Friday to Sunday.

Most of what we say can be found
1° an office which has in the past so often seemed only empty in more or less plagiarized form

at the library under Things Worth
Knowing. If you need a refresher
during the weekend, remind your
date of the books on reserve, and
while he starts for the desk, fill in

“Look At The Bigger Matters” where you need.

In the midst of histeria or confusion we are often reminded Start oft the weekend with »
by men of stability and objectivity that we have exaggerated | Confident quip and youll never be
something into the shadow of a monster that is really just a|°t ° 105s: Take. for instance, when
moth on the light. Such was the case when Franklin Roose-
velt reminded us that all we had to fear was fear itself.

Such also was the case when British statesman, Lord Milner
urged us to “look at the bigger matters.” Taken alone this
advice seems nothing unusual; in fact we probably like to
think we are already following it. As Americans we traditional-
ly take for granted that everything we do is right since we
lead the world in most every way imaginable.

The words of Lord Milner, however, reminded us how warp-
ed and distorted our beliefs and attitudes can be at times.
When we are in the midst of spy trials, “unAmerican” activity
investigations, and accusations ad nauseum, it’s not just a re-
minder but a shock to hear a Britisher tell of how they laugh
at the Communists in Britain, how they want to foster trade
with Russia because closer contact will promote peace!

And yet when we ponder this attitude we wonder if the
price we have had to pay for our Red Scare doesn’t reveal our
own blindness by comparison to the British. They, as demon-
strated by Lord Milner, have somehow maintained a balance,
a perspective despite the pressure, despite’ the fear psychosis
narrowing the world’s vision.

The British are faced with espionage, with treason, with
more war problems than we, but they can still laugh at the
Communist because they know his creed is helpless against
such faith as theirs, a philosophy which beats the Communist
to the reforms and outdoes him on the stump. We among
many would question a claim that the British are unbiased,
but no one can deny that they have had more experience with
world probtems and more time to sift the important from the
sensational.

The result is that they defeat the Communist by keeping
their heads when he strikes and by refusing to fall victim to
his tricks. We have not matched that psychology because we
have been blinded by the smaller things, by things which were
brought so close to the light as to cast a monstrous shadow.

Thus our speaker was not only urging a more objective
appreciation by Americans of someone and something besides
themselves, but also an objective approach to the world’s pro-
blems, whatever they are, based on the unbeatable partner-
ship of our two nations. We would do well to take this advice
to “look at the bigger matters” and not only keep our heads at
home but never forget the “common belief in God” which
binds us to allies like Great Britain. The loyality of free men

‘ and the preservation of true liberty might depend on it.
G.A.B.

'

/
ON
F |

|

y

There are net enough bon
mots in existence to provide
any industrious conversation:
alist with a new stock for
every social occasion.

The Editor’s Mailbox:

Gay Questions

(Ed. Note: The following are ex-
cerpts from a letter from Bob Gay
‘51 in answer to the Davidsonian’s
appeal for alumni correspondence
regarding the fraternity eating
question. The entire letter has been
placed in the hands of Dr. Cun-
ningham).

To Whom It May Concern:

I appreciate the invitation of the
Davidsonian to me and other alum-
ni to answer with overt testimony
our opinions concerning (the fra-
ternity eating question). I write as
an alumnus who is interested in
Davidson’s growth in the direction
of the best possible school. . . .

And if this problem (the fact of
there having to be a larger number
of men eating at the union to make
it financially self-supporting) were
contemplated, how is it that the
students and fraternities were not
contacted before the Student Union
was established? There is evident
a superficial concern for the fra-
ternities if willingly the administra-
tion creates a problem and tosses
it off on the fraternities and stu-
dents to solve at their own cost.

The second consideration (that
of building more class spirit) . .
seems to be an effort to justify a
pre-established means. It is quite
obvious that the values of fratern-
ity life for the freshmen have been
excused. One value of this unity
after college will be for alumni
contacts.

This... can be used for
echieving support that should
flow from the alumni for deep-
er and more basic reasons. The
considerations are, to me, more
basically material-centered and
expedient actions then student-

Ot Frosh Eating In Union

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Wien JoneS Torp me WS DaTE
WAS Tue ‘GREEK GOpDESS TYPE’

1 THOUGHT WE

THE CABBAGE PLANTER:

The First Annual Party Girl’s

Primer of Piquant Palaver

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

he meets you at the bus and folds
you in his arms murmuring some-
thing about “My little kitten!” Be
ready with, “Did you know, my
darling, that about 90 per cent of
all white Persian cats are deaf?
Deafness and albinism are asso-
ciated with all animals, The ab-
sence of any pigment, for some
unknown reason, affects unfavora-
bly not only the vision of the ani-
mal but the hearing as well. Some
cat fanciers say that purebred
white Persian cats with two blue
eyes are generally stone deaf, while
those with one blue eye and one
pink eye usually can hear.”

Will he be impressed! Perhaps
you will be lucky enough to go on
a picnic Saturday afternoon before
the dance. He will be doing his
best to conjure up a romantic set-
ting, even going so far as to mem-
orize that stuff about a “jug of
wine and thou.” Look up into his
eyes and whisper softly, ‘“Rubai-
yat, pronounced roo-bye-yaht with
the accent on the last syllable, is

The Success

centered and principle-motivat-
ed.
Assuming the college could
adopt the scholarship aids that are
offered by the fraternities, are
they to assume that the college
is going to allow each fraternity to
designate the men who shall re-
ceive these scholarship aids? 1
doubt if the college (would) see
its way to doing this.
Will the college promote
drives to compensate for the

(Continued On Page Four)

The Editor’s Mailbox:

Rural Cultural Defended From
“Undergraduate Iconoclast”

Dear Editor,

“The Free Lance,” otherwise
known as “the undergraduate ico-
noclast,” in last week's Davidsonian
deplored, among other things, the
lack of conflict here at Davidson.
We hope that this letter will some-
what alleviate the situation by of-
fering a bit of criticism of some of
the implications of that column last
week.

We do not object if Mr. Ottley
wishes to call the Davidson stu-
dents “boobs,” “rubes,” “hicks,” and
“apes,” if he has good reasons for
doing so, but we do object strong-
ly when he uses, as he did Jast
week, such words as “rural,” “coun-
try,” and “farm,” as being By-
nonymous with the above-mention-
ed terms. This reveals, we believe,
a pitiable ignorance of country peo-
ple and country mores. We con-
tend, perhaps surprisingly to Mr.

HIS HAT AGAIN. ”

‘WamAEo Te REPT IM eneNEE er eemnnctnee sng eoEtNgOLS 180580086 CRRe cnegrrmnsc opetnees.
- MANY,

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1953 -

THE FREE LANCE:

Analysis of World Tremor
Begun By Local Experiment

By JOHN OTTLEY

the mere ability te breathe out

which the exhalers possessed. breath.

For a while there was thought of| Economic repercussions of the
using the group as a test itself}Whimsy Report, as it came to be
because of this dissension, but|called, were staggering. Great
those in the education department| waves shook the dentifrice stock
found that there were net suf-| market; people gave up brushing
ficient funds for such a test. their teeth in favor of mouthing

Murmurings of discontent | sum — any gum just so it'was not
began to rumble from the phi. {the incompetent chlorophyll. The
losophy department whe won. | word became like quisling, a term
dered if the public should be | of near profantiy.

allowed to believe the results |. The pulpit took up the ery and

of Stink since they were based |there was talk of making “Thou

entirely on metaphysical sub- shalt chew chlorophyll” one of the
jectivism, which meant thet | great directives. A great group of
they were possibly inadequate, |scholars was set to work re-in-
ontologically speaking. terpreting the Ten Commandments

But the philsophér is concern-|to see if there could have been
ed with pure science and it is} Dy mistranslation of the original.
not for him to delve into the

WAS TALKING THRU

Item: “(for bad breath) . . . it’s
all to no avail to take Clorets or
the like.” — Davidsonian, Feb. 6.
This inclusive conclusion was the
result of mgnths of Operation Stink
conducted by two students of psy-
chology in the local department.

The brief notice given it in
this paper does little justice to
etther the work of the indi-
viduals concerned or the rath-
er startling consequences
which have come sbout since
its completion.

On dreary afternoons when most
of us were doing such useless
things as reading Plato or the Ro-
mantic Poets, a group of hand-
picked men were busily exuding
onion-laden breaths into a mega-
phone for testers to sniff for de-

brand” which did stifle bad

gree of stink. Art turned its vindictive
With hairtrigger timing and | Petty realm of public opinion and| fury against the perpetrators
incredible accuracy the experi. | influence. of the great green hoax and

Of course the reader will see that
these were only the secondary ef-
fects of this announcement on page
one of this paper. The two students
were given $5000 for the copyright
by the AP who considered it one
of the biggest scoops of the year.
A day later the news was splashed

the Swiss Picassoir proctaime
the dawn of » new school in
which there was no green pig-
ment employed. He argued
that color was of no import.
ance anyway since art was
form and nothing more.

The Readgr’s Digest in a bril-
liantly clear-cut editorial thought
that the total effect this experi-
ment had could be summed up
in the simple words of a New Eng-
land dairyman who said “Thar jest
ain’t no limit to whut man kin do.
Sometimes hit seem he doan count
fer much no more, but I would
shore hate to live in a wurld whar
tha indeevidual didn't count no
more. America should not loose
its conception of indeependence.”

ment stages were carried out

for nearly the entire first se-

mester,

A new circle of intimates was
formed on the campus of men who
had sniffed and those who had
exhaled. The relative social values
within the group was even drawing
the eyes of the sociology depart-|over the fronts of nearly every
ment. It was interesting to see how|™ajor publication in the country.
the more carefully chosen exhalers|. The streets of America and
tended to be snobbish to the snif-| its possessions became @ mass
fers. — of humanity screaming for re-

it was the ancient battle of venge upon World Chlorophyll
skills versus general know- Gnterprises which had dealt
ledge which uprooted the them such an obvious wrong

American college scene not so by its advertising. Men were

long ago — the testers claim- shooting themselves because

ing their know-how in the rat- the Davidson report did not:
ing wes of superior value te name specifically the “other

DAVIDSONIAN_ ABROAD:

Going To Europe? Organized Tours Serve
As Wonderful Vacations Summer Months

By JACK SFIRD

tion for 720-$40 less may be ob-
tained on so-called student ships,
but these are old, small, crowded,
and inadequate. The majority of
them are forbidden entrance to the
port of New York, so they use
Montreal as their home port. As a
general rule U. S. and Dutch ships
are the best as to cleanliness, food,
and facilities, British and French
ships tend to be less clean, and
Italian and Greek ships should be
definitely avoided for numerous
reasons.

SITA tour prices range from
$475, including ocean fare for a
sixty day, five country tour; up
to $1,000. These prices are below
those charged by other companies,
because the tours are not designed
for people interested in “luxury”
alone, in eating only American
food, and in meeting only other
tourists. They also take advantage
of lower prices on reductions of-
fered for students.

When going on a tour you pay
one lump sum to the company

the plural form of rubsi, a word
of Arabic origin meaning some-
thing made up of four parts. In
poetry rubai means simply a quat-
rain or a stanza of four lines. The
plural form of the word has become
famous, dearest in connection with
the Rubaiyat of Omer Khayyam, a
Persian mathematician, astrono.
mer, freethinker and epi-gram-
matist, who was born in or near
Naishapur in the early part of the
eleventh century. Khayyam, pro-
nounced Kye-yam, is a Persian
word signifying tent-maker and
probably refers to the occupation
of Omar's father.”

When he ecarresses your long,
graceful hand, voice his inner.
most, unspoken thoughts by re-
marking, “Sweetheart, one of the
hands of Anne Boleyn, second wife
of Henry VIII, was deformed by
the presence of an extra finger,
The sixth finger, however, was lit-
tle more than a stump covered by
a nail and turned up at the sides,
Anne wore gloves whenever posst-
ble, but Queen Catherine used to
get revenge on her rival by com-
pelling her to play cards without
gloves, thus exposing the deformi-
ty and disgusting the king.”

You get the idea. Let's go on to
the dance. If he doesn't notice

For many weeks the “Davidson-
ian” has been proud to present for
your reading enjoyment a series
of articles based on the actual ex-
periences of the various writers
as they toured Europe. The oppor-
tunities to make a trip to this his-
torically rich continent are very
numerous and can be done today
at a minimum of cost, It is the pur-
pose of the next few articles to ap-
pear on this page to familarize
the student with the various ways
by which he can visit Europe and
to stimulate a desire in him to
make his plans as soon as possible.

For a person who is unaccustom-
ed to travel, and in particular for-
eign travel, the best means of see-
ing Europe is by going as a mem-
ber of an organized tour, The num-
ber of: the companies who organize
these tours is far too numerous to
mention; however, my material for
this article comes from my exper-
fences on a tour of the Students
your dress right away, remind him|!nternational Travel Association,
gently. “Gunily, dear,” you'll say,|(SITA). This company has many
“in gunny sack is an Anglicized| features which make it outstanding.| which includes all transportation,
form of the Hindu and Sanskrit] It offers tours exclusively for col-|lodging, and food. The company
goni, meaning sack or bag. Be-| !ege students at low prices; it also/takes care of the so-called “head-
cause bags for gross commodities | ™akes available scholarships, grant-| aches of travel” by arranging for
were made on a large scale in Ben-|10-alds, and study trips with col-
gal from a strong, coarse, heavy| lege credits.
sacking, the material came to be| One of the major considerations
called gunny and the bags gunny| Which must be looked into in pre-
sacks. Although gunny is used in| paring for foreign travel is the
India as clothing by some of the| cost. The biggest sum will be trans-
poorer classes, its chief use is in|Atlantic fares which are a min-
making sacks and wrappers for|imum of $160 one way on regular
cotton-bales and other commodi-| passenger ships, Some transporta-

(Continued On Page Four)
THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX:

New Union Cafeteria Shocks D.C. Status Quo;
Affect On Fraternities Seen To Be Good

Dear Editor, class will probably be required to fraternity member would really
Now that fortune has smiled on|eat at the Union next year. have the time to get to know the
the benighted Davidson Student; How will this affect fraternities | fraternities at Davidson, and vice-
Body in the form of a new College| at Davidson? In the first place,| versa. There would be a whole year
Union, the status-quo has been! it will undoubtedly make them| in which to choose carefully which
rather shockingly upset. At least|smaller. This in itself is probably | fraternity to join, and which men
the new order seems to be “shock-| a good thing — a well integrated | to bid; and most of the dissatisfac-
ing,” judging from the wails eman-/ group of forty or forty-five broth-|tion, tacit and expressed, that ex-
ating from many students since the| ers has a far better chance of de-| ists under the present “grab-bag”
recent announcement that the fra-| veloping real fraternal spirit than system would be eliminated.
ternity system here may be in for|the unwieldly eating clubs that] In this letter we have not at-
a good shaking up. But is that bad? | exist today. The loudly prated ru |tempted to cover all the many
The College Union has to be sup-|mor that cutting fraternity sizes|facets of the question. We feel,
ported — this is obvious. The} would result in the bankruptcy of however, that the statements made
money can come from one of two/|the several boarding houses is aj herein point out that the situation
places: either the Union Cafeteria| dangerous oversimplification. This|is not entirely bad. In fact, the
can be made to operate efficiently; | is a possibility, yes; but so long as/College, caught with its hand in
or the College Union fee will have|the size of the student body is/fraternity pockets, might be pre-
to be raised far above that it would | maintained at around 900 students, | vailed upon tp make a number of
ordinarily be. The College has|it is far from being an absolute important concessions: a central
chosen the former means, and in-| certainty. purchasing agency for boarding
tends to effect its program by re-| The greatest good that could houses; assurance that board at the

traveling through Europe.

Sixty-five to seventy-five day
tours start in England — then
travel through Belgium, Holland,
Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and
France in that order with Paris
visited last. In this way you get
a touch of foreign travel while in
England, but can still understend
the language in most cases. For-
eign travel makes such an impres-
sion on you the first few days that
you hardly have time to notice the
food. The best food is on the con-
tinent. With Paris as your final
stopping point, you always have
the biggest and best experiences
to look forward to. Perhaps the
worst thing to do would be to start
in Paris and finish in England. Ex-
tension tours may be gotten to
Scandinavia and the Near East. _

By being on a tour, you haye the
companionship which is lost when
traveling alone. This is especially
true when your entire tour is made
up of college students where girls
usually outnumber the boys, 21-4
as in my case. On other tours where
ages range from sixteen to sixty,
you don't get the same type of com-
panionship for do you all have the
same interests. .

if anyone is interested in going
to Europe this summer, please feel

free to contact any of the various
many places of both types, because
you ont get transportation or writers of these articles for any
lodging or because you think it is| additional information that may be
out of the way in your circle of | desired.

your eating, sleeping, and traveling.
The tour takes you to the usual
tourist cities and to the more typ-
ical towns of a country’s life. If
traveling alone you are apt to miss

Ottley, that there are many cul-
tured people who live in the coun-
try and many uncultured “city
slickers.” We would even go so far
as to say that some of the hoot-
ing in chapel, which Mr. Ottley so
strongly denounces, may have is-
sued from the lips of boys who did
not grow up on a farm.

If Davidson is as bad*as Mr. Ot-
tley believes, then perhaps one
of the reasons is because we have
such a small percentage of rural
students. Davidson would be hurt
more than helped, we feel, if the
student body were composed only
of those whose knowledge of the
farm has come from brief rides
through the country on Sunday
afternoon.

Sincerely, quiring enough students to eat/come from this program, however,|Union will not undercut fraternity
Andy Courts at the Cafeteria to guarantee fi-/ would seem to be sophomore-year board; and physical improvements
Lewis Baker. nancial success. Thus, the freshman'rushing, whereby each prospective} (Continued On Page Four)
