Aug, 6’ 53

Hot Davidsonian

Largest Summer Ne ws paper

Davidrowiaws Flee Unto the HiLLs

Several suffering students smothered by
heat took to the hills last weekeend to

_ that We Know OF

Hot Doo!! j
By now most of us are getting tired of
Watermelon each Wednesday night so to

escape the deadly tropical heat wave. Monelet each of you know that the Social
treat, where the World Mission Conference Committee is trying to sponsor new ideas,

was in session, was the destination of
Stan Topple, Grier Williams, Charlie Mure
phy, Willis Briley, Ken Boyer, Bill Wall,
Red McAllister, and Bob McClure. Ken was
there with his family who has just re-
turned from Japan. There were also many
other Davidson Fellows there ~-grads as
well as those coming back next year,

Some of our brethren are working at Mone
treat during the summer. These include
Herschel Allen and Corky King.

Not only was there relief from the heat,
but the boys were relieved from the
womanless life they lead here at Davide
son, Yes, it is true that the ratio is
to 1 in our favor. Just ask some of the
guys who went, With over two hundred
young people up there for the World
Mission Conference you can understand.
Friday night there was a big get-together
Davidson predominating, in the form of a
Watermelon Cutting. Of course, there was
folk and square dancing too. Lake Susan
provided a wonderful opportunity to get
cool, in fact COLD Mount Mitchell lured
a car full of folks Sunday afternoon,
Quite refreshing was the whole trip for
our galloping guys. It's only a pity
they couldn't bring back eome of that
cool air ~ - among other things.

Bill Shipley and Joe Stephenson had a
fine trip to Asheville during the week,
Congratulations to Ted Reid on the birth
of a 63 lb, baby girl born Sunday,

we are going to have a Weiner Roast with

plenty of lemonade to quench our thirst,

This is an excellent opportunity to bring

a date and get plenty of good fuod FREE.
ud Opens

The Student Store will open today with

Benny Barker as the student manager, The

hours will be as follows:

10:00-11: 30 a.m,
1200 ~ 2:00 p.m.
6:30-7:30 pem.
The attached sheet lists some of the
outstanding values,

Mr. S. H. Magill will lead the Fellowship
Hour at the College Union Sunday evening
at 7:00 o'clock.

Welcome to the Magi lis
Monday, Davidson added new names to its
list, Mr. & Mrs, Samuel H, Magill. Mr,
Magill has come here to be the "Y" Secree
tary. A graduate of U.N.C., he has just
received his B,D. degree from Yale. While
at Carolina among his other activities,
Mr. Mogill set a Southern Conference re-
cord in a 2=mile run. Mr. Magill hails
from Morgantown, ‘J. Va. which is the home
of ¥.W.Va. and Mrs. Magill's Alma Mater,
We should like to take this opportunity
to welcome you to our campus and look
forward to working with you during the
coming year,
