VOLUME XLI

| Student Council —
Clarifies System

In last Friday’s chapel President of the student body Jack
Ruth presented the student council’s interpretation of the)
honor system as it pertains to pledge work.

Here is the prepared statement |

Davidson has been selected
as one of twenty-four colleges

John Ottley made a clean sweep

Frost To Give Lecture

‘in the country to provide un-
| der graduate scholarships each
|} year ina manner similar to the}

from the student council.
“The following is the Student
Council's interpretation of the sec- |

4 s
Elections Group
ete Of ie Bane: Restate: wane ie ' Baker Scholarships, Dr. John

ed with ‘pledged k.’ ts fy
ee Begins V OF IR. Cunningham announced’

| Luke Seales, the Chairman of the here today.

See Editorial Column

jed it as our policy to be followed|°f which there are four indepen-' to encourage and give limited fi-

2 by this policy.

| Election Board for this year, pre-| The Union Carbide Educational
| “We, the Student Council, feel Sided over the first meeting of that fund has set up these scholarships,
‘that this is no change in the Con-| 8foup on Wednesday of this week. of which Davidson will eventually
/stitution. It is merely a clarifica-| The board which is composed of hold eight, for the purpose of “as-
tion of the interpretation of Sec-| 17 student members of which ¢ach | sisting deserving students who are
tion 2, as we see it..We have adopt- | fraternity has a representative, and interested in business careers, and

the rest of the year and we will, dent members, with two from the nancial aid to a cross section of
decide any controversy of section Student council. smaller American colleges and tech-

| Their first official action was nical institutions of traditionally

“This policy will be’ presented to decide to have the first nomina- high standing.”

to the Student Council next year tions for student body offices afte. Selection of two members of the
and if they wish to follow the same the spring holidays. This will al-| present freshman class is immed-
policy, they will announce it to the |!ow the first elections to be be- jately planned as well as procure-
Student Body. |gun in early April, thus cutting ment of two highly ranked fresh-

“Our purpose is to try to let the own on the possibility of the elec-| men in the class of °57.
| student Body know exactly how tions running so near to the end) = The secondary school entrant
ithe Council feels about cheating | of school as was the case last year. will be selected at a later date and
|and pledged work, and to try to; A discussion was held on the | under a program the machinery of
| clear up any haziness which stu-| subject. of continuing the current which has not as yet been set up.
| dents or faculty members may have method of nominations and the A grant-in-aid will go to the col-
_ about this section.” conclusion was that last year’s new- lege itself, $600 for each seholar-

Tonight, March 6th, marks the opening night for the Red and
Black Masquer’s third production of the year 1952-53, Laburnum Grove.

Tad Currie and Mr. Raymond Tyson, pictured above, have been
instrumental in bringing the play to its present consumation.

of the awards in the Willa Cather
Writing contest today in chapel as
the senior writer took all three

| prizes in the contest.

The Willa Cather Award was
established by William C. Doub
Kerr, who attended and later taught

jat Davidson, and is open to all un-

der-graduate members of Sigma Up-

jsilon, the Honorary Literary Fra-
| ternity.

Ottley took the third, second, and
first prizes, all books, with “The
Newspaper”, “The Pool” and the
poem “Flight”, in aseending order.
Professor Wilson McCutchan, of the
English Department, made the pre-
sentation.

Professor Kerr, who is a world-.
traveled lecturer-teacher, is inti-
mately associated with the Blue Pen-
‘cil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, hav-

ling been made an undergraduate

member himself at Chapel Hill and
working diligently to establish a -
chapter at Davidson.

‘The entered manuscripts were

The curtain is scheduled to go up at 8:15 tonight, and tomorrow
night also, for J. P: Priestly’s amusing, if slightly confusing, comedy

}sole judg

sent to Professor Kerr who is the
for the contest, in Cali-

At D.C. Next Week

¥ Robert Frost, one of America’s most revered poets, will) body's concept and is neither bind- |
appear at Davidson on Mafch 11 and 12 in the College Artist ing on a future council nor is it in|

The’ interpretation amounted to , |
la clarification: of the governing forced this spring. Under this plan

and Lecture Series. The scheduled program will be presented | the form of a by-law.
at 8:15 p.m. on the 12th in Chambers Auditorium. |

|

Robert Frost, one of America’s|for a further statement on the)

Ruth emphasized, when queried

if the council decides to pass and

‘i }most revered poets, will appear move that it may become a by-law
Works and Life }at Davidson on. March 11 and 12 in
ithe college Artist and Lecture pi

Of Robert Frost
Full of Contrasts

By HUNTER STRADER —

To read the works of Robert
Frost is to read of the ordinary
activities of people who are living
everyday lives in an ~ everyday
world — there is little contrast
between what is written.and what
is real.

But to read the life of Robert
Frost is to leaf through page after
page of contrasting events, lived. by
a man who has become one of the
literary leaders of his day.

When one hears his poetry it al-
ways appears that he is speaking
about the most natural events in
the world — arid in truth he is.
Yet his own. life has been filled

ather,
was himself a vigorous states
er. 3
_ Born in the bustling California of
the '70’s, Frost in reality was de-

2

ies. The scheduled program will be |
presented at 8:15 p. m. on the 12th |
in Chambers Auditorium. |

Besides the regular lecture, Mr. |
Frost will speak to various classes |
and informal groups on the campus. |
A special meeting of Sigma Upsilon |
will be held on the 11th*with Mr.
Frost as a guest.

Thus the student body will
be able to meet and talk personal-
ly with Mr. Frost in addition to,
hearing his regular program, which |
usually includes readings of poetry
along with a running lecture.

Frost, who was born in San Fran-
cisco in 1875, moved to New Eng-
land where he intermittently at-
tended, Dartmouth and Harvard,
worked in a textile mill, taught
school, and wrote for a newspaper.
It was during his stay in England
‘from 1912 to 1915 that Frost first

(Continued On Page Four)

Representatives of three nation
al companies will be on the David-
son campus within the next week
for interviews with seniors interest-
ed in joining their firms, it has,
been announced by Mr. John Dil-
lon, director of the placement bur-
eau.

On Monday, March 9, a repre-
‘sentative of the Connecticut Gener-
al Life Insurance Company will
meet with any men interested in
their executive training program,

The agent will also see men in-
terested in selling insurance, al-

}

On Tuesday, March 10, at 8:45

ital

i

(¢

il
:
és
ie

TH
Lit tad

A. M., a group interview will be
held for men wanting sales and
business

He

ire
i

i
s
&
.
.
8

i

i

id
I

z

$

|

present it to the student body as
such.

Musicians Compete
Again Tomorrow

Tomorrow will be another day
of music on the Davidson campus
when 250 high school and junior
high school students meet at Shear-
er Hall for instrumental solo and
ensemble contests. There will be
185 events, with 30 schools being
represented.

Judges will be Nicholas terneston
of Appalachian State Teachers Col-
lege, Herbert Carter of Eastern
Carolina College, and David M.
Arner of Greensboro.

The Davidson band, brass ensem-
ble, and woodwind quintet will pre-
sent a short concert during the
noon break for students and di-
rectors.

This contest covers the western
half of the state, the schools in

the eastern half going to Duke |

University for the competition.

In last Saturday’s events 17 solo-
ists and four ensemble groups won
the rating of superior, and 20 solo-
ists and 11 ensemble groups re-
ceived an excellent rating out of
300 students represented. -

Judges for that competition were
Mrs. Harriet Beden Brask of New-
berry College, O. J. McCullough
of Catawba College, and Carl C.
Brumbach of Guilford College.

hy adopted method would be en-

there will be nominations from the
elections committee prepared prior
| to the day of nominations. Further
| nominations will be heard from the
\floor in a student body meeting.
| Further planning may be expect-
led from this official group which
| has as its function the orderly and
proper running of the elections
each year, Chairman Scales said

Fraternities Finish
eg? .

Formalities Finally
| The last initfations of the nation-
al social fraternities will take place
next week as the Phi Delta Theta
and. Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-
ternities conclude their pledging
periods.

The Phi Delt pledges will go
| through an informal initiation from
March 8 to March 14, after which

they will be formerly initiated
| ee 15-17,

March 7-13 will be the informal
|initiation period for the SAE
| pledges and Friday, March 13 is the
| date of their formal initiation.

Frenchmen Hear
Charlotte Professor

Le Cercle Francais met Tuesday
night, March 3, at the home of Dr.
| A. V. Goldiere with Professor Jean
Adam as the guest speaker.

Professor Jean Adam is of the
French department of Johnson C.
Smith University of Charlotte.

He gave a talk-on the life of
Corneille and his works, and _dis-

|eussed Corneille’s play, Cid. Follow-

ing the talk, Professor Adam an-
swered the questions of the stu-
dents.

In the absence of President Mac

Bulgin, Vice-President Norman

Johnson persided.

in three acts.

ship, as an niditiogal part of the
program. ~ .
Basic requirements for applivants

are those of good character, grades,
and personality. They must intend
to enter business or industry .
Dr. Cunningham. expressed the
joy of the College at beihg chosen
to participate in this program and
added his convietion that the pro-
gram will benefit not only the spon- “Renaissance Paintings,” a group
sor but will perform a real service |of seventeen framed pictures from
in helping capable high school | 14th, 15th, and 16th century Italy
seniors to attend college. ; will be the main feature of the
President Cunningham concludes | sixth annus! Fine Arts Festival at
his statement, “We are grateful to, Davidson College in April.
the Union Carbide and Carbon| These pictures, including works
Corporation and look forward to a| by Tintoretto and Veronese, are
very pleasant relationship with this;}9n loan from the Metropolitan
great company.” |Museum in New York and will be
; displayed in the Ovens’ Student
Union from April 18 to May 18.
For the first time painting is being
emphasized during Fine Arts Week,

BULLETINS —

Lawrence Erwin has announced} rather than music.
that no recent action on the part’ Prof, Philip Moose, who was re-
of the administration and faculty sponsible for procuring this dis-
has been taken on the freshmen play, worth an estimated million
eating question. dollars, announced that the Renais-
Dr. MeGavock and Dr. Cunning. 5#2¢e with emphasis on art would

|fornia, where he now resides, and
j his decision provided the winner.
The first prize is a richly bound
of two volumes containing

Arts Festival Has zc

Renaissance Show

} Maugham anda collection of poems
| by Archibald MacLeish.

- the ined of the 1953 Fine Arts | Amy Deferment
estival. aw) ®
‘Tests On April 23

On April 29, Dr. Cle.umen Sum-
mer, art authority from U.N.C., will
speak in the student union on| National Headquarters of Selec-
Renaissance Art. Throughout the | tive Service today reminded college
week ‘art films will be shown at Students that applications for the
the union. |April 23, 1953 Selective Service
Qualification -Test must be post-
marked not later than midnight
|March 9.

The deadline is necessary to al-
low the administrators of the test, *

An _ exhibition of Renaissance
jewelry will also be displayed un-
der glass at the union, on loan from
the Norfolk Museum, directed by!

John Davis Hatch. | : ; ‘

. the Educational Testing Service at
Prof. Moose commented: :“This| princeton, N. J.,. time to process

is a fine exhibit of strange Renais- the applications and assign each

sance jewelry and we are extreme- | applicant to- the testing center, of

ly lucky and happy to have it along | which there are 1,000, requested

with the very valuable “Renais-| py the student — or to the closest

sance Paintings” for display. |possible alternative center.

ham have both been away on busi-
ness this past week, but a. meeting
of the Faculty Committee on Fra DR. MARY SLOOP’S
ternitiés and the Fraternity Steer |
ing. Committee is planned for ear-
jly next week. |
The Davidsonian will continue to By HENRY BROCKMANN

earry a full account of the. proceed-| The colorful life of Dr. Mary T.
ings on this very important issue. | Yartin Sloop, lifetime missionary in
western North Carolina, and chosen

The Aiter Vesper discussion jn 1951 as Mother of the Year for
Committee is having a discussion {phe United States of America, has
this Sunday night with Prof. Wil- heen written into LeGette Blythe's

son on the subject “Roman Catho- jatest book; which is to be releas-
lie and Protestant Doctrines.” ed on March 9.

| Miracle in the Hills is indeed an

NOTICE | appropriate title for a book whose
stary centers about a person who

The numbers and letters from with her family has, through no
lthe new football game are missing gnd of plain hardness and toil,
jfrom the Union, It is important made a thriving community from
‘that they be returned. ‘a hopeless chaos of backwardness

Male Chorus Prepares To Tour 2200
Miles Through Six Southern States

According to director Donald B., The choir will cover approximate- |

Plott,
a tour on
take them
states.

5 Wt tour fr tear dine, covering much eae terriery.

11, which will|Lines. Plott expressed the hope byterian. Church in nearby Ashe- from there to the First Presbyter-
eight southern} that popular T. C. Ingram would ville.

be their driver.

On. Wednesday, March 11, the the Highland Presbyterian Church
the male chorus will begin|ly 2,200 miles via Trailways Bus | chorus will sing at the First Pres- of Louisville, Ky., and will move
March
into

ian Church of Franklin, Tenn. for
On March 12, they will sing at a Saturday night engagement.

= Pere , The chorus will be at the Soath
Highland Presbyterian Church of
Birmingham, Alabama on Saturday
night, and at the First Presbyterian

rane

IS SUBJECT OF BLYTHE'S NEW BOOK

| Application blanks may be ob-
tained by students from the near-
est lpeal board. They do not have
to return home to the local board
which has jurisdiction over them.
To be eligible to take the Selec-
and misery. tive Service Qualification Test, an
Dr. Sloop is a native of Davidson, | applicant, on the testing date (1)
her father having been president of} must be a_ selective service
the College. She attended Davidson | registrant who intends to request ,
College as one oc its first coeds.|deferment as a student; (2) must
When she was a girl, she had want-| be satisfactorily pursuing a full-
ed to be a missionary to China, but) ime college course—undergraduate
when she had earned her medical | or graduate — leading to a degree:
degree, she saw as dire a need for} (3) must not previously have taken
medical missionaries in the moun | the test.
tains of North Carolina as in China.; The present criteria for con-
And so came her lifelong serv-| Sideration for deferment as a stu:
jdent are either a score of 70 or
better on the Selective Service Col-
lege Qualification Test or class
standing among the male members
'}in the upper half of the freshman
class, upper two thirds of the so-
phomore class or upper three
fourths of the junior class.
’ Seniors accepted for admission
to a graduate school satisfy the
viteria if they are among the upper
half of the male members of their
senior class, of thy make a score
of 75 or better. Students already
enrolled in graduate schools may
be considered for deferment so
long as they remain Mm good stand-
ing. Persumably, these criteria will
be tightened “all up and down the
line.”
General Hershey has. urged all
eligible students to take the test.

UFE INN. C. HILLS

Church of Pensacola, Fla. on Mon-
day evening.
On Tuesday, March 17, the choir)

DR. MARTIN SLOOP

files when the local boards recon-

ice in this state, for immediately| sider their cases to determine

after her marriage to Dr. Estace

so they will have scores in their \

will be at Dillard University in New Sloop of Mooresville, she and her
Orleans. The appearance at that husband left for the mountain
Negro institution comes as the re-|ountry and Crossnore, Avery
sult of an exchange agreement. It County, North Carolina.

is hoped that Dillard's fine choir| There the Sloops have spent their
| will visit Davidson this spring.

| The schedule for the week: con-
\cludes with a performance at the
‘Napoleon Avenue Presbyterian
| Church of New Orleans on Wednes-
|day, and a Thursday engagement

