PAGE FOUR

Phi Beta Kappa SENIOR SKETCH NO. 3

(Continued From Page One)

and his home town is Burlington,
N. C.

Gary Daffin, also from Marian-
na, Fla., is a business major who.
plans after he graduates in 1954 Some men can’t resist a good)
to go on to graduate school in cigar. I've known women who go
business or economics. A Sigma limp when they see a new hat in):
Alpha Epsilon brother is he as 9 shop window. Believe it or not,
well as a member of Eumanean there’s a kind of person who can't
Literary Society. :pass up a blank crossword puzzle,

Bil) Hood, from Wallace, North and I'm on speaking terms with
Carolina, is one of the juniors several drunks who have no de-
elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is ire to remain anonymous. All these
on the editorial staff of Quips and People have weaknesses. In fact,

r

Cranks, a member of Eumanean
Literary Society, and a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-'
ternity. During his years here he
has been outstanding in YMCA’
work.

Buford Price, a physics major,
and Baker Scholar, ended the last
semester with a 3.25 average. He
is a member of Phi Delta Theta’
social fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma, !
the honorary physics society, and
Eumanean Literary Society. This
year he has been secretary-treasur-
er of Delta Phi Alpha, the hon-
orary German society. :

Lee Seagle, a junior who is leav-
ing next year without graduation
to enter Duke Medical School, has
won several previous awards while |
at Davidson. In his fraternity, Sig- |
ma Phi Epsilon, he has taken the,
Clifford B. Scott Scholastic Award |
twice, as well as winning his fresh- .
man year the Alumni Award and
the Chemistry Award. Lee is, a
member of Alpha Epsilon Delta,
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Eu-
manean Literary Society.

igor Speaks

(Continued From Page One)
Arabs; he also emphasized that the
British had promised Palestine to
both groups and then left them to
fight it out just as they did with
the Moslems and Hindus in India.

The personable young foreign
student also pointed out that the
Arabs had an intense hatred for
us, since during the Truman ad-
ministration we sent strong aid to
the Jews, but that now the Eisen-
hower policy seems to be favoring
the Arabs.

At the conclusion of his inform-
ative talk concerning the land in
which he lived for several years,
Igor answered questions from the
members on such topics as: the
assassination of Counte Bernadotte,
the extent of the industrial
and agricultural development in
Palestine, the relative wealth of
the manufacturing Jewish ele-

all people have weaknesses, and
Jimmy Eller is no exception.
Back in 1931, the doctor told
Mrs. Eller Jimmy would be along
on January 2, so on that date she
went to the hospital. But Shady| ‘
didn’t get here until four days later,
and he’s been keeping people wait-
ing ever since. " >
Shady is late to meals. Shady is

2
xa

a

oo

late to classes (just ask Dr. John-
ston). Shady is late for dates —
everything.

He was nicknamed ‘Shady’ be-
cause he looks shady (see cut.) He
ooks tired and gives the impression
that his blood is tired. His senior! :
placement sheet says his hobbies L
are tennis, golf and hunting. Frank- _ ad
ly I think its confined to the card| Our concealed camera caught
games that start in his room every; Shedy Eller in a typical “an-
night about 1:00 A. M. Cop Linker| other day, more horizons to
often drops in to watch and is amaz-| conquer” pose.
ed how he and his roommates|Fine Arts and he told me he had
(Ralph Holt and John Cathcart) can} that last semester. Again through
get so excited over a hearts game./ diligent. work, assiduous study,
He's also interested in their unique| earnest effort and hiring Professor
system of keeping score with little | Moose to paint his portrait he came
red, white and blue discs. ‘through with a flying B, high for

Yet Jim points with pride to the |Shady's educational career.
un-lazy schedule of classes he has} This Winston lad is a born or-
worked out for himself. “Some ganizer.’He belongs to four hon-
seniors make it easy for themselves orary fraternities, all of which he
their last year, but I realize this helped found. These include The
might be my last opportunity to|Garry Moore Fan Club, the Peon's
gather knowledge.” ‘Knowledge’ is| Army (‘tell them we won’t march
surveying, phys. ed., music ap-,;until the weather gets warmer”)
preciation, astronomy and Eco 22.,Order of the Deerhead, and the
I asked him what he has against | Davidson Fencing Club. He briefly

« will have one-half of its pledge
class eating in the boarding house

and the other half in the Cafeteria.

Alternate Plans
(Continued From Page One)

Cafeteria second semester and the
great increases at the boarding
houses.

The valuable contacts that the
freshmen would have with the
upperclassmen would be greatly
decreased first semester.

It is felt that this would have a
very pronounced effect in the in-
doctrination of the freshmen into
good study habits, the honor sys-
tem, fraternity spirit, and school
traditions.

ments who control the strategical-
ly vital Mediterranean coast-line
as against the generally more indi-
gent agraian Arabs, the manpower
and strength of these two groups,
and other pertinent questions.

CAT TALES: Continued From Page 3

The Anchor boys decided to make it a clean sweep (or
rather, to “Down Them Every One,” as a certain song goes)
last Saturday night, and patron Sigmon was there that night
to see his team win the tournament by whipping Morganton’s
Union Hardware team 54-52 in a close one. They got Sig out
on the floor to accept the trophy that night, and he had the
added gratification of seeing two of his club — Jimmy Smith
and Moose Lazenby — make the all-tournament team.

It should be added that the Anchor boys won the tourna-
ment with only one real follower, he being “Diamond Jim”
Carr, Davidson, lass of '52, who is currently in the merchan-
dising business. Senior Lawrence “E’’ Erwin, also of Morgan-
ton, was also there every night, but didn’t get as enthusiastic
about the situation as follower Carr.

Since most of the Anchor team will graduate this year,
it is doubtful that they will be able to do a repeat perform-
ance next winter. Buf'the foot-high trophy out at the Broken
Anchor will always remain a tribute to one Davidson team
— or rather, team of Davidsonians — that went through a
“season” with an unscarred record.

Rotation Plan
The Rotation Plan provides that
all freshmen will eat in the Col-
lege Union Cafeteria until Oct. 1.
Beginning then, each fraternity

At the end of a certain period (15
days or one month) the freshmen
will rotate.

After the first rotation period,
each half of each pledge class will
be divided for the next rotation
period, thereby insuring that each
member of the pledge class will
eat with every other member of
his class. This plan would last for
the entire year.

The greatest advantage of this

plan is that the Cafeteria and the
boarding houses would have ap-
proximately the same number
throughout the year. This would
mean a great saving for both.
The main objection to this plan

is that there would be a great] '

amount of administrative work for
the treasurer's office as well as
for the fraternities.

The Fraternity Committee ad-
vised the Student Committee to
have a written statement stating
that if one of the alternate plans
is adopted, it will be acceptable
to the student body and that they
will cooperate to the utmost in
making it a workable solution.

It should also be understood that
the College reserves the right to
review the workings of the plan
after one or two years to see if it
is operating acceptably, with the
understanding that if it is not, the
College may make changes without
breaking faith with the Student
Body.

The two points were put before
all the fraternities at their weekly
meetings last night. The results

were 10 to 1 in favor of the al-
ternate plans.

aed “Hier ~£
a Es | E | |
- ue

-  <e

wn! |

%
Ke. '
: 4
rd

ro

Mr. LeGette Blythe, author of Miracle in the Hills, was honored last Tuesday evening at a reception
sponsored by the Eighteen Century Book Club ef the College Union. Or. Mary T. Martin Sloop, co-
author and central figure 6f Mr. Slythe’s newest book who is daughter and sister of former David-
son presidents, was unable to attend due to iliness. Others pictured are, left to right, Mrs. Frontis
Johnston, Mrs. Walter L. Lingle, Mr. Blythe, Mrs, Archibald Currie, and Miss Letitie Currie.

THE

DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike Myers} Summer Session

0.D.K.’s Biggest Mistake: J.C.E.

entered politics when he ran for
YMCA president, but political pres-
sure was too great.

Jim has a deeply-founded love
for the beauty of our campus. Any
weekend will find him here maybe
strolling down Elm Row or perhaps
catching a symphony in Phi Hall.
More of us should adopt his ‘why-
go-elsewhere-when-home-is-best’ at-
titude.

There is a chance that Shady is
suffering from transoculus, a rare
disease where the patient sees more
clearly at nightime than daytime,
often confusing the two. Heres the
way one Eller day might go: Sleep
till dinner, then preside over G-M
Club: 2:00-4.00 bull session any-
where with anyone; 4:00-5:00 prac-
tice fencing positions before a mir-
ror; 5:00-6:00 file fingernails; after
supper, go to movies; 9:00-12:00
senior study at B.A.; 12:00-1:00 file
fingernails; 1:00-3:00 hearts; 3:00-
3:05 study if review next day —
then sleep until 12:30. Occasionally
an ugly ole class messes up this
precise schedule. ;

Since Bill Pharr graduated, Shady
is the only boy around who writes
with a stacked deck. He neatly
summed up his whole philosophy:
“College is not entirely a scholas-
tic endeavour.”

There’s probably more, but 1!
couldn't wait for him to finish fil-
ing his nails.

First Student

(Continued From Page Ona),
ternity, or club to combine their
votes with another group or organ-
ization, or form a clique.

Section 10 — It shall be illegal
for any person, group, organiza-
tion, fraternity, or club to solicit
votes for a candidate for office.

Section 11 — It shall be illegal
for any person, group, organiza-
tion, club, or fraternity to use any
expense whatsoever in electing any
candidate.

Any person or group guilty of
actions included in Sections 9-11
shall be formally penalized accord.
ing to the discretion of the Elec-
tion Board and Student Council.

AS

WHAT'S GOING ON?
See Scripts and Pranks Wednesday.

Drink

M.
O
O
R’

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

DAVIDSON

THEATRE

Thurs.-Fri. March 12-13

“THE HAPPY TIMES”

Charles Boyer, Louis Jordon

Saturday, Merch 14

“THE PATHFINDER”

George Montgomery
Helen Carter

Mon-Tues. March 16-17

“NIAGARA”

Marilyn Monroe, Joseph Cotton

Wednesday, March 18

“CARRIE”

Lewrence Oliver, Jennifer Jones

(Continued From Page One)

and six-hour courses will be offer-
ed, and classes will meet on all
Saturdays except August 1 and 15.

By enrolling on June 4 and re-
maining through July 22, a stu-
dent may take a total of 14 semes-
ter hours credit. By enrolling on
June 10 he may receive only 12
hours credit. All students who live
in the college dormitories must
take full-time work. Students who
live in their own homes will be
permitted to take part-time work
at the discretion of the dean of
students.

A student who attends both ses-
sions of summer school must pass
a total of six hours work in order
to be eligible for admission to
Davidson in September.

Six-hour courses meet twice a
day for seventy-five minute
periods during the term of thirty
days. Eight-hour courses cover
their work in forty days.

Students in residence will take
their meals in the college cafeteria
or in the college dining hall.

Registration will be Thursday
June 4, from 11:00 a. m. to 12:00
p. m. for science lab courses.
Classes will begin the same after-
noon at 2:00. Registration for six-
hour courses of the first term will

Preliminary Bouts
(Continved From Page Three)

have 15 contestants in the match,
are considered to be the team to
beat. The Marines were second
only to Appalachian last year and
Appalachian is not sending a team
this year which makes the “leath-
ernecks” top seeded in the tourna-
ment.

Davidson’s list of entrants now
reads as follows:

Kerry Spiers and Bobby Joe
Key, 114-pound class; Dave Jones,
125;- Gene Craven, and Charlie
Murray, 136; Stan Topple, 146;
Nabby Armfield, Bill Coe, and
Henry Faison, 160; Monty Little-
john, and Bill McElveen, 177; and
Dave Burns, Roger Wright, and
Phil McGill in the 191 Ib. class.

Weighing in of all contestants
began today afternoon and the
first round is slated for 7:30 to-
night. The Semi-finals wil! be at
2:00 tomorrow afternoon with the
final matches beginning tomorrow
night at 8:00.

FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 198

Mr. D. Grier Martin, College Treasurer, watches the landscaping
work which has provided a better parking erea behind Duke

Dormitory. This was undertaken
ment program of the College.

as 8 part of the grounds improve-

Robert Frost
(Continued From Page One)
is the chance of success or failure,

begin at 2:00 p. m. on Tuesday | he felt, is there any real motiva-
June 9. Classes will begin the fol- tion to write.

lowing morning at 8:00.
The entire schedule is in the

“As for the ‘good life’,” he con-
tinued, “that is to be able to take
success and .failure evenly .. .

hands of the printers and will be| not to be made a fool of by failure

released soon to all students.

... or by success,”

SEND THE
DAVIDSONIAN HOME

NEW CARS

DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF

Dial 3-4513

212 W. Forth Charlotte

It’s the
_ $ize of the .

in the
man!

AY gfi= op. ut
ee i

That’s right! In the U. S. Air Force, it’s not the
size of the man in the fight—it’s the size of the
FIGHT IN THE MAN! And Aviation Cadets must have
plenty of it. For Cadet training is rugged. If you're
good enough . . . tough enough . . . smart enough...
if you can take it while you’re learning to dish it
out, you can have one of the moet fascinating careers
in the world. You'll be equipped to fly the latest,
hottest planes. You'll be prepared to take your
position as an executive, both in military and com-
mercial aviation as well as in industry. And while
you're helping yourself you'll be helping yourcountry.

y

\\

Fat

WIN YOUR WINGS! It takes little over a

year to win your wings as

a Pilot or Aircraft

Observer (Navigator, Bombardier, RadarOperator
or Aircraft Performance Engineer). But at the end

of your training you‘graduate

as a 2nd Lieutenant

in the Air Force, with pay of $5,300.00 a year.

ARE YOU BLIGIBLE? To qualify as an Aviation
Cadet, you must have completed atleast two years
of college. This is a minimum requirement
it’s beet if you stay in school and graduate. In
addition, you must be between 19 and 2614 years,
unmarried, and in good physical condition.

New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE'S WHAT TO BO:

I. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of
your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or
Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.

2. If application is accepted, the Air Force will give you a

physical examination.

3. Next, you take a written and manual aptitude test.

4. If you pess your physical and other tests, you will be
scheduled for an Aviation Cadet training class. The
Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment

while waiting clase assignment.
WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS:

your nearest Alr Force Bese, Als Force Recruiting Officer, or

yeur nearest Ale Ferce ROTC walt. Or

Headquarters, U. 5. Ale Force, Washington

write te: Aviation Code,
25, D. C.

