Aug In ‘53

Hot DavidsoniAn

The Largest Suymev Newspaper We Know OF

WHY HALL PRAYER MEETING? EDITORIAL CONT.
; & A Davidson student should always keep

What is the purpose of the weekly hall his feet on the ground and his head in the
prayer meetings at Davidson? Do they sky,
serve as practice grounds for the pre-e
ministerials, a focal point for the "pious RUSH WEEK HINTS
pathfinders", or opportunities for the In a few days Freshmen will begin to re
"holy Joes" to vent high-sounding religias ceive dates for Rush Week, which will be
phraseology? If that were the case we September 21-26, A word of advice about
would certainly be a miserable body of the rushing procedure-which has been set
students who claim to be Christians. down by the Inter-Fraternity doundil.

Our prayer meetings are aimed toward First, when you receive your date cards,
being a midweek point of worship for a send back to the Rush chairman his copy of
group of believers. We are voluntarily the dates (the postal card) immediately
gathering together to sing praises, center and keep your copy, It will save you em-
our thoughts on a passage of scripture, andbarrassment and the fraternities lots of
offer up thanksgivings and petitions to trouble if you do not lose your record,
God. May a spirit of this sort further Often you will find that the dates cone
develop and prevail through the remainder flict with fraternities, It is your privi-

of the summer) lege to change the dates to a time which
For the uninformed, hall prayer meet- fits your schedule of dates, You are al-
ings are held each Wednesday night at lowed only two dates to a fraternity. .:i--
10:30 in West Dorm. All are welcome, Dates are made for Mon., Tues., and Wed.
Stan Topple only.
eo cw men nwewewmwwewcenne - You will find Rush Week just what the
name implies, The fact that you will have
SUMMER ATHLETICS AT DAVIDSON a load of school work makes this week even

more miserable. It is most important that

During the summer months the athletic pro- not get behind these first days fur they
gram is not nearly so varied as it is are the most important. A good start goes
during the winter but there is still some a long way toward a successful college
activity for the die-hard muscle man if he career,
looks around a bit. It would be an excellent idea for each

The tennis courts are open all day and :Feeshman to read the Rules of Rushing in
are popular since, with the small summer THE WILDCAT HANDBOOK which he shall receive
enrollment, there never is the old pro- in a few days.
blem of waiting for an empty court.

The gym itself still offers the hand=- DAVIDSONIANS ON PAROLE
ball and basketball courts, weight-liftir, Another long week-end carries us from
and the flying whizzer room (wrestling). the quiet campus to our various havens fram
The exercise room is undergoing some sort toil, Many shall return to Montreat, others
of face lifting at the moment but it too to their homes or the beach, This is our
should be back in operation soon, spring holiday of summer school, It pro-

Last but not least on our list is the mises to be hot, humid and FUN.
chlorine dip commonly called the swimming
pool. Here, on a fair summer evening we FREE HOT DOGS TONIGHT
may see about six Davidson boys, one Don't forget the Weiner Roast tonight
sleepy life guard, twenty howling children at 8:30p.m. There will be plenty of free
(age three to thirteen and five anxious food for all. If you by chance have a date
parents shouting,"Come on son, you can tonight, bring hers
make it", or a bobbing head is seen to be

disappearifor the third time... ANNOUNCEMENTS
To even it up - the fun is here, come Due to the long week-end;
on out and have some, There will be no Fellowship Hour this
Sunday night,
EDITORIAL: ,
These are times that try men's soles, The Union plans to purchase new records,

especially after a hot tiring day of supplyIf you have suggestions, came by and tell
and demand curves, sines and cosines, and Mrs, French,

the antics of Byron, Yes, nothing would be

nicer than to sit down to a cool bottle of Chapel-Thursday, Aug. 13 ~ Bill Shipley
Soca-Cola (fooled you) with ones feet high Chapel-Tuesday, Aug. 18 - Dr. Causey
and lifted up. That's alright with us, just

try to restrain yourself until you are out The Union will close at 7:00 P.M. on
of Chapd, class, or the Union, to raise Friday, August 15, The evening meal will
those feet above your head. When in your be served at the Snack Bar and no other
room, the chest of drawers lifts them highmeals will be served until Monday monning
er, the holes in your socks don't show, breakfast.

plus saving furniture,
