PAGE TWO

Greeks Must Curtail Initiations
In View Of Their Own Interest

During the past week we have been alarmed to learn
that the fraternity system at Davidson is seriously jeopard-
izing its position and even its existence.

For many years the annual “Hell Week” immediately
preceding the initiation of pledges has been a tradition among
social fraternities. But in recent years this tradition has come
under heavy fire from within the fraternities themselves as
well as from without. Attempts to replace it with more con-
structive initiatory practices have met with varying degrees of
success on different campuses.

At this college there have been those who desired to
substitute “Greek Week” or “Help Week” for “Hell Week.”
This movement was started by fraternity men who realized
that if fraternities did not effect a change in their initiaton
practices, changes would be forced upon them from without—
i.e., by the college faculty and administration under pressure
of parents.

We have learned that the college feels that various sub-
stitute initiation programs have been a failure in so far as
they tended to take the place of “Hell Week.”

To use a trite but relevant phrase, “ominous rumblings”
have been heard from the college authorities, who at present
think that “Hell Week” is just as strong a tradition as it ever
was. It is not outside the realm of probability that stiff action
may be taken against this practice and even against frater-
nities themselves. Those who feel this should be done have
ammunition to back them up.

At present two initiates have been hospitalized as an
indirect result of these initiation ceremonies. In addition,
faculty members are complaining that these time-consuming
practices get the initiates hopelessly behind in their studies.

Fraternity men often argue that what goes on in frater-
nity court is no business of the college—that the college has
no right to interfere with fraternity initiation proceedings.
Regardless of whether this is true or not, the college has the
power to interfere in fraternity matters and to take any steps
they wish in regard to the continued existence of the frater-
nity system.

No matter how much it is argued that this is unfair, it is
the plain and simple truth of the matter. °

This is not to say that there is no place for frivolity in
fraternity initiation. But when frivolity is added to frivolity,
so to speak, in the manner of the traditional “Hell Week” the
faculty and administration are bound to find out, and it can
reasonably be expected that they will sooner or later take
action. It seems to us that either the fraternities will by their
own volition drastically curtail the practices of “Hell Week”
or that the college will drastically curtail the activities of
these same fraternities.

There are real .and positive values in fraternities. Are
these to be placed in jeopardy by clinging to unnecessary if
amusing practices of initiation?

Athletic Aid Not ‘Greatest Good”
Nor Intrinsically Evil Either

If you want an argument, or even something more vio-
lent, at Davidson or at many schools, just take an extreme
position, pro or con, on the matter of athletic scholarships.

We welcome argument, but abhor violence, so we are
taking what we feel is a moderate, if somewhat prejudiced
‘position.

It seems that the question of athletic scholarship raises
two subordinate questions. The first concerns whether the
recruiting of athletic talent necessarily brings inferior students
to the campus and lowers the academic standards and general
“moral tone” of the student body. The second question asks
whether the money spent on athletic scholarships could be put
to better use, for the college as a whole, and if so, is there
reason to believe that it would be.

If one can answer both these questions negatively, then
the question of subsidization boils down to the matter of how
much money can be got. On the other hand, if the answer
is yes to both these questions, then all must admit that sub-
sidization is wrong.

In attempting to give a reasonable answer to these two
questions, we would first strongly maintain that those cur-
rently at Davidson on athletic grants are men of whom the
college can take pride. They are, on the whole, satisfactory
students, and take an integral part in every aspect of campus
life. In no way that we see do these men “lower” the quality
of the student body. Thus, to question one, we would answer
there is no inevitable relation between the presence in a stu-
dent body of men on athletic scholarships and the lowering
of academic or other standards.

Secondly, even if you grant that money spent for ath-
letic grants could be put to better use for the college, there
is little reason to believe that alumni who “kick in” for
athletic scholarships would do so for other purposes. Tho
criticism is made that time and effort used for collecting
money for athletic grants could be utilized more constructive-
ly. Perhaps so, but not more successfully. If a man is willing
to contribute to the education of an athlete, but not to that
of another person, is it wrong to deny him the choice? :

Our conclusion is that there need be no objection to ath-
letic grants, so long as the college maintains the same stan-
dards for all students, and is not deprived of its other finan-
cial resources by them. °

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

plea for some form of internation-
al control of the awesome potential
powers of atomic energy was a
very fit close for his informing
lecture Wednesday night on the
basic principles of the atomic
bomb, and the fervent tone in
which this authority on the sub-
ject spoke should have been
enough to convince even the most
ardent isolationists and “America-
Firsters” that such ibternational
control must be achieved if an-
other world holocaust is to be
avoided.

The distinguished Princeton
physicist was undoubtedly aware,
when he asserted that “We must
give up some of our sovereignty”
in order to achieve such world
control, that such an act would
have to be multilateral to achieve
the desired goal of saving the
world from destruction by the vir-
tually unlimited power of poten-
tial atomic and hydrogen bombs.
That is, all the major nations of
the world would have to be in-
cluded in such a program in order
for it to work effectively.

Difficulty Arises

Here, of course, is where we
inevitably hit a snag. For, in the
first place, there will undoubted-
ly be a large element in the
United States which will not want
to give up a single Constitutional
clause of our present sovereignty,
for various reasons, And it should
be said that their reasons are not
always easily brushed aside, al-
though in the light of the possi-
bility of potential world self-
destruction by a super-bomb these
reason might appear less im-
portant.

Let us assume, for the sake of
argument, that America and all
the other free, democratic nations
of the world would be willing to
surrender part of their sovereignty
in order to achieve some form
of world federalism, whereby con-
trol over atomic weapons could be
effected, and in order to create
some form of international army-
police force with which to enforce
the controls agreed upon by the
member nations.

The next step would of course
be to bring into such a system the
Tron Curtain countries, which
means principally the Soviet
Union. And this, as any American
diplomat of the last ten years will
undoubtedly attest, is where the
real impasse is inevitably reached.

Two Methods

There are obviously only two
ways in which the Soviet Union
‘could be brought into such a fed-
eral system. The first and most
desirable way would be to con-
vince the Russians that the atomic
and hydrogen bomb are potentially
capable of destroying us all, so

to join such an organization.
The only other alternative would

COLLEGE YEAR be to ferce the Soviet Union to
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Moody Smith fi join a federal system and sur-
BUSINESS MANAGER Charley Hasty [\render a sufficient part of their
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Jim Moore, Diek Roper sovereignty in order to achieve

Matered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
N. C,, under the Act of March 3, 1087,

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By DICK ROPER

Dr. Hubert Alyea’s dramatic] Quite obviously, the only way we

could bring Russia into the pro-
posed organization would be by
some sort of warfare by which
we could achieve enough control
over that nation to force it to join.
And the terribly ironic feature of
such a course is that we would
inevitably become engaged in
atomic warfare, the control and
prevention of which we would be
attempting to gain in the first
place!

Few Americans would be will-
ing to undertake Proposition No.
2, since it might very possibly lead
to the destruction or near-destruc-
tion of America by atomic
weapons, in addition to the fact
that such a coercive action would
be a repudiation of the very demo-
cratic principles which we are at
present trying so hard to safeguard
and preserve.

Futility Seen

The apparent futility of the
whole effort toward achieving a
sort of world federalism can be
seen when we consider the possi-
bility of getting the Soviet Union
to agree to give up enough of its
sovereignty to make such a plan
workable. From all we know about
Communist doctrine and Russian
imperialism in practice, it seems
obvious that the men in the Krem-
lin are not going to be persuaded
to join any such organization. They
will talk endlessly about the de-
sirability of achieving and main-
taining world peace; but any posi-
tive measure which involves mu-
tual sacrifice of power and
sovereignty we know they will not

support.

What the situation amounts to,
in the final analysis, is that we
as members of a democratic na-
tion cannot conceive of any na-
tion which will willingly permit
the existence of a situation which
might very possibly lead to the
destruction of the world. Dr. Alyea
and his fellow physicists must be
Mterally terrified by the potentiali-
ties of the weapon which they have
helped to develop. As citizens of
democracies the atomic scientists
of America and Great Britain want
to prevent this terribly destructive
weapon from being unleashed on
the world.

Kremiin Peels Differently

But what we must realize in at-
tacking the problem is that the
Soviet hierarchy does not feel this
way about the situation. They are
undoubtedly aware of the poten-
tialities of the atomic and hydro-
gen bomb; as Dr. Alyea pointed
out, they are known to have a
considerable supply in their stock-
piles right now. What Premier
Malenkov and his cohorts ap-
parently want to do is wait until
they believe they have the upper
hand, or at least an even chance

that consequently they would only! of winning «m all-out global con-
be spiting themselves by refusing] flict; then they will, if they are

unable to eventually dominate
the world by subverting the
various governments, launch such
a war with the hope of eventually
coming out victorious and thus
dominating the entire world. To
tell them that they would only

NUTTY
ATA

Alyea’s Proposal Praiseworthy
But Unrealizable at the Present

very doctrine calls for Communist
domination of the world, and it is
virtually impossible to believe they
will ever agree to stop short of
this goal. Only a revolution it ap-
pears would ever bring about such
a change of heart.

’ FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1064

Old Student Council Ineffectual?

Proposal For New Introduced |

Throughout the year there is fre-
quent criticism of the Student
Council for being an ineffectual
body from the students’ point of
view. Sometimes this criticism goes
so far as to call the Student Coun-
cil just another agency of the
faculty and administration for the
enactment of their program upon
the students. I feel that there must
be some underlying cause for this
lingering feeling. The criticism
is not caused, I feel, by any par-
ticular disgust with the particular
officers for the year. Neither is it
caused by an irreconcilable dif-
ference between the philosophy of
Davidson College and-the philoso-
phy of the Davidson student. The
reason that there is continual dis-
appointment or dissatisfaction
with the Student Council is that
it is not constructed to be a stu-
dent government. Our rather
unique present organization, whose
character is difficult to define, is
not a member of The United States
National Student Association in
which the student governments of
most recognized colleges and uni-
versities are represented. Our Stu-
dent Council is poorly constructed
to do the jobs of organizing stu-
dent opinion and representing the
student body.

Why is this? Under the present
organizational set-up the functions
of a body to maintain the honor
system and a body to represent
the students are unwisely blended
into one organization—the present
Student Council. So long as these
two separate functions remain
combined, neither one of them
can be carried on in the best man-
ner. If they were separated, the
student government could do a
thorough job of representing stu-
dent interests without in any way
affecting the honor system. In-

By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

which did not have the duty of
dealing with faculty and adminis-
tration on behalf of the students.

Buddy Lamon has. presented

this problem together with a pro-

gram for the separation of these

two powers to ODK, but that or-
ganization has as yet made no

study of the situation. It seems,
however, that a change of this

type should be made as soon as
possible. It would be indeed un-

fortunate if we continue in this

state of confusion and  dissatis-
faction, if we can make a few
changes in the organization of the

Student Council.

With this in mind, I would like
to present a program designed to
separate these two distinct aspects
of student government which is
similar to the one proposed by
Buddy Lamon. First, there should
be created an Honor Council with
the same duties as are now ex-
ercised by the Student Council.
This body might be composed of
four seniors, three juniors, two
sophomores with a freshman mem-
ber elected by the end of the first
semester. They could elect their
own chairman from the senior
members, and their meetings
should properly be conducted in
private. All matters pertaining to

violations of the honor system and
only such matters would be
handled by the Honor Council.
Second, there needs to be a Stu-

dent Assembly which should con-

duct open meetings at a regular
time. This assembly might be
composed of the president and one
other elected member of each of
the upper classes with a freshman
member being added at the end of
first semester. One man should not
serve on both the Student Assem-
bly and the Honor Council. The
Student Assembly would conduct

Thus it is obvious that the only} deed, even the honor system could] the regular affairs of the student
be enforced better by a group! body and would give a hearing to

(Continued On Page Four)

any student who would make an
appointment with its secretary.
Through this function of the Stu-
dent Assembly a way would be
offered to students to make their
suggestions and criticism concern-
ing student affairs.

The Student Assembly should be
headed by the President of the
Student Body who would be a full
voting member of the Assembly.
The President should also serve
as an ex-officio member of the
Honor Council. He would thus have
no voice in the decisions of the
Honor Council but would be able
to coordinate both portions of the
student government.

A change of this nature would
require an amendment to the stu-
dent body constitution, and if we
are to have a more efficient stu-
dent government which would pre-
vent such surprises as the fresh-
man eating situation from arising
in the future, we must begin now
-to think and act with this need in
mind. The only way to make a
change is to have considerable
student interest and action. I hope
that you will consider the pro-
posal which has been offered, and
if you feel that it will help to
improve the ineffective and iso-
lated nature of the Student Coun-
cil a’ it now exists, I would recom-
mend that you insist that the can-
didates in the forthcoming elec-
tions for President of the Student
Body let you know how they feel
concerning this important matter.
Actually, this is a simple proposal
which involves no issue except the
separation of two powers which
cannot be operated properly
through the unilateral system of
government now operating on the
Davide-n campus, and I strongly
feel that the whole spirit of David-
son will be greatly improved and
enhanced by your sincere interest
and support of this proposal.

The Editor’s Mailbox:

Craio Attacks Moore’s “Rubicon Crossing”
g

Plea For Admission’s Director Made

LIKSS TRUSTEES MOVE

Dear Editor:

This is my first, and I hope, last
written contribution to the
Davidsonian; but I felt compelled
to write after reading last week’s
article concerning the “Crossing of
the Rubicon,” (which, to my sur-
prise, turned out to be a river
prominent in Roman history).

Your writer, who apparently
considers himself an expert in dis-
cussing morals as well as discuss-
ing rivers, roused me; so you can
thank him for this letter.

Throughout the article the writer
forecast impending doom for our
college because the trustees final-
ly made a decisive move in our
athletic policy, although this move
still leaves us. the least subsidized
college in our conference. He pre-
sented the Board of Trustees and
the Wildcat Club as the villians re-
sponsible for our plunge from our
high moral principles “down de-
vious and slipperly paths of think-
ing.” I wonder if Mr. Moore is per-
sonally acquainted with any of
these destroyers of morals, In both
organizations, the Board of Trus-
tees and the Wildeat Club, are
some of Davidson's outstanding
alumni, men who are leaders in
their community. There are even
several ministers in both of these
corrupting groups. I find it hard to
see why the writer considérs him-
self a better judge of policy than
these men whom I have always held
in the highest esteem. I doubt that
any of them have become victims
of an “emotional reaction to the
emotional appeal of putting more
money into athletics” as the writer
asserts.

t cannot see the difference
in principle which Mr. Meore
apparently discerns in giving
@ bey a scholarship fer play-
ing feotball or basketball and
in giving e bey whe excels in
music er scholarship, | see neo
mere grounds fer mera! cor-
ruption In “paying” a bey for
playing feotbell then | de fer
“paying” o bey fer ploying o
musical instrument er for ex-
celling in “leadership in extra
curricular ‘ectivities.”

The writer does not have my re-
spect for the integrity of our ad-
ministration when he asks “if Da
vidson is being dictated to too
much by athieticsuccess-minded
alumni and the athletic depart-

succeed in destroying themselves{ ment.” In my mind nothing could

go about effecting such coercion? is to no avail, apparently. Their

be further from the truth. If any-

thing, the administration has bent
over backwards to avoid such un-
founded accusation.

How long did it take the writer
to dream up the so-called hypo-
thetical evolutionary cycle of our
athletic policy? He predicts a
fiend which will rise out of Pan-
dora’s box and in a few years
destroy us all. I find it very hard
to believe that the day will ever
come when Chambers Building will
be pressured by alumni and
coaches to lower our standards so
as to attract more athletes.

I'm afraid I will have to go along
with the majority of students and
faculty whom Mr. Moore predicts
will say, “A good thing. About time
Davidson did something.”

I think a concrete athletic policy
which gives us a chance to com-
pete equally with schools our size
will be good medicine for our
school. Our failure lies in the fact
that we've waited too long to estab-
lish such a policy.

I won't do as the gifted writer
of the article did and predict any
hypothetical pictures of the future,
but I do expect to see a better
spirit and a more healthful school
in general as a result of this
“Crossing of the Rubicon.”

With this statement, I will put
away my pipe, withdraw from the
realm of the verbose, and relin-
quish the capitious (look it up, I
had to) to the cynics.

Sincerely,
BEN CRAIG.

BD. C. MUST COMPETE
Dear Editor:

After considering the question
of subsidization of athletes at Da-
vidson, I offer my humble opinion
on the matter.

First, I concede that it is often
difficult to present logical reasons
why one is for subsidization. Fre-
quently the motivation is emotion-
al. Nevertheless, there are many
of us who hold this conviction
after consideration of things other

tive offers as soon as they show
athletic prowess. Without ade-
quate funds we are unable to
compete for the athletes which
would be ordinarily ours.

(2) The program has not only pro-
vided a superior education for
many, but the majority of men
on scholarships have made
definite contributions in lead-
ership and scholarship on the
campus. One of the present
athletic administration's most
outstanding accomplishments
has been its acquisition of a
maximum number of talented
men with a minimum of funds
at their

I shudder to think what the
nature of the student body
would be if it were not for the
element of virility which Is nur-
tured by the intercollegiate pro-
grani here.

(3) In granting aid to these men
the school realizes a means of
having the homogeneity of the
student body The pres-
ent generation seems to be
largely the .sons of highly suc-
cessful upper-middle class men.
Perhaps the famed “Davidson
Spirit’ declined with the reduc-
tion of the rural element in the
school. Certainly, every phase
of campus activity stands to
benefit from greater introduc-
tion of men from different lo-
cations, and diverse social and
financial backgrounds.

(4) In participating in an organ-
ized intercollegiate conference
with subsidization for athletics,
a full program of minor sports
is supported in conjunction. On
our present program, we have a
coaching staff which is large
and qualified enough to run
this program. It is very doubt-
ful that this program would be
conducted in this manner, if we
had a completely “amateur’
system with no particular em-
phasis upon major sports.

After evaluating these sources

than an intense desire to be iden- of bonefit to the school, I find the

tified with a highly successful
team.

I think several aspects of the
controlled subsidization programs
as conducted at Davidson justify
the plan.

trustee’s action in underwriting
the Wildcat Club justifiable.

This appropriation may in part
meet the advances which other
institutions are making for out-
standing men through enlarged

(1) Davidson's “priceless heritage,”| Scholarship programs, both ath-
its fine young men, are being|!etic and academic.

bought by rival institutions.

At the University of North

Many oustanding high school! Carolina most of the Morehead
boys who would otherwise be| Foundation Scholarships are now
attracted here, receive lucra-| being directed to outstanding high

school leaders with minor require-
ments for academic accomplish-
ment. The Angier B. Duke Awards
along with other similar grants al-
ways attract well-rounded young
men.

Measures must be taken to
minimize these threats to David-
son’s most important tradition—
Giving a particular type of edu
cation to superior men.

ADMISSION’S MAN
AUTHORIZED
The edministration must be
prompted to empley oa full
time admission’s director fer
recruiting and screening pur
poses. This post was authorized
over four years age by the

Board of Trustees and the Ad-

ministration evidently hes

been unable to fill the office.

Whilé an acceptable man ts

being sought, little recruiting

is being done, and injurieus
ideas about Davidsen’s
academic “stiffness’ flourish.

We ere now drawing on eur

reputation, but can this con

tinue indefinitely?

The school can only be as good
as its teachers, equipment and stu-
dents. While much ado is made
over the former items, the quality
of the freshmen is taken for
granted year after year.

Sincerely,
BILL ELLIOTT.

DAVIDSONIAN TOO
CYNICAL ?
Dear Editor:

My finer sensitivities have been
slightly offended of late. In read:
ing your paper, The Davidsonian,
I believe that that I have denoted.
much criticism and perhaps a
policy of questioning and stirring
up all possible issues and contro-
versies. It is not this that has given
me offense. This Is the solemn
duty of college journals. However,
it is also the duty of these insti-
tutions to do it with an accurate,
logical, rational manner, not in
involved, emotional, excited de-
nouncements.

I suggest that you review your
policy of grinding out solutions of
the world’s poignant problems in
haste to fill up space. Perhaps by
alfernating your staff in writing
editorial page features, you might
relieve burdens from both writers
and readers.

Sincerely,
BOB ABERNETHY.
