PAGE TWO

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Henry Brockmann

| Agsistant Editors _______ Joe Burroughs,
: Gilbert Gragg, Swain Loy
Managing Editors ____. Blake Brinkerhoff,
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor Dick Morehead
News Editors John Hiers, Watt McCain
Copy Editor John Hermon

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Entered os second cless matter at the Post Offic of Davidson, N. C., under the Act of Merch 3, 1697

, ASSOCIATE EDITORS _—__________ Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

BUSINESS MANAGER _._______-.. Tim Cooper
Art Editor Ed Price
Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments Jim Brice
Editorial Consultants Joe Gaskin,

Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager —. Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager Larry Parrott
Collections Manager John Smith
Circulation Manager Bob Carmichael

Smith’s “Farewell Address”
Views Editorial Year In Retrospect

With unexpected regret and under-
standable relief the retiring editor turns
over the duties, headaches, worries and
satisfactions of the office to his successor.

We will not pat ourselves on the back
as we walk out the door, mouthing vague
generalities about what a good year we
have had. We honestly feel we have in sev-
eral instances done a job of which we could
be proud, but on the other hand there have
been some moments best forgotten.:

Elected on the platform of reflecting
student opinion, we have since come to
wonder whether that is the highest calling
of the student newspaper, though we still
feel it is important. More vital, however,
is the responsibility of molding informed
student opinion on the more fundamental
issues of college education, and how it is
preparing us for a world such as this.

The weekly college newspaper is a
pretty good barometer of student attitudes
and a reasonably good indication about
how much and what kind of thinking is
going on among students. Of course, it
should not merely be satisfied with the
passive role of barometer for the student
body. It should be an active and stimulating
force presenting new ideas, rather than a
broken phonograph, repeating for its
readers what they are already thinking and
what they like to hear.

Our feeling is that too often we have
merely catered to the student body instead
of informing them.

But together with certain recriminations

-about our failures goes a deep satisfaction
that working with the Davidsonian has pro-
vided. This publication has an important
place on the campus with a world of op-
portunity for intelligent student self-ex-

pression; it is really an education in itself.

One of the many rewarding and heart-
ening things about editing the Davidsonian
this gear has been the enthusiastic, self-
sacrificing attitude of an entire staff who
were really interested in improving the
quality and efficiency of the paper. In this
respect there has scarcely been a weak
link. Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, and
John Handley functioned like old pros as
managing editors and sports editor respec-
tively. The same goes for Blake Brinkerhoff
who handled assignments. Austin Strand
was “Johnny on the Spot” as news éditor.
Dick Little did a splendid job as circulation
manager, both in getting papers distributed
on the campus and mailing them out to
nearly 500 outside subscribers and adver-
tisers. Jim Moore and Dick Roper led a
corps of capable editorial page writers who
literally feared no man and let the chips
fall where they might—on everyone from
Joe McCarthy to the local police officers.
Under the direction of Charley Hasty the
business staff sold the ads and paid the
bills, despite the fact that many business-
men were increasingly prone to confuse
advertising in college publications with
acts of Christian charity. Don Mahy and
Ed Price probed tender spots around the
campus with their cartoons while humorous
and human interest features by Bill Mof-
fett and T. Alden Williams served to
brighten the pages of many an issue.

We leave the Davidsonian now in the
capable hands of Henry Brockmann and
his new staff with every good wish for the
future and with full confidence in their
ability —D.MS.

Typical Student Apathy
Seen In Dying Amendment Controversy

The “fight” over the proposed amend-
ments has but added tacit assent to the un-
challenged conclusion that the Davidson
student is ever apthetic about anything
beyond six hours sleep and three meals

> daily.

For two weeks now a sprinkling of stu-
dents have kept their ears and lips open in
an effort to hear any comment about the
amendments they oppose or propose and
to press their case. In an effort to keep
things going they have made the calm dis-
cussions of the amendments seem veritable
‘wars of words. Those in favor of the pro-
posals have warned over and over again
that something must be done this year be-
fore the whole thing dies down.

It is disheartening to realize that things
seem to have died already. Perhaps few
were interested in the first place. The
words of Bob Crutchfield in chapel two
weeks ago stirred the students to clapping—
after all, wasn’t someone proposing inde-
mendence, whatever that was? Since then,
however, little thought has been. given to
the matter by most students, and the whole

decision about the amendments now rests
- on the question of whether or not they
« will ever find their way into the Friday
nvoting of the student body. If they do, they
pmay pass, but if they don’t, everyone will
«very appropriately forget about them.
.° The whole attitude of students toward
«these amendments is typical.of their atti-
tude-toward every problem that comes be-
fore their gaze. We are typically men who
Met George do it. We can’t be troubled to
think over anything beyond mosquitoes, re-
tviews, and other temporary bothers to our
‘daily vicious cirele. The most exciting thing
‘sinee Jennings Fields is the eternal smoke
iof the burning garbage dump. Reason:

we.

bothers nostrils and sleep. What if boys
do get thrown out of school for an over-
dose of listerine. They usually turn out
to be boys other than ourselves, and be-
sides, such cases are seldom detected.

The seniors, of all students, seem to be
those most interested in the progress, or
lack of progress on the amending of the
Constitution. Some have just stood in awe
at this phenomenon. Others have accused
the sages of the student body of being last
minute glory seekers. Be this right or
wrong, there seems to be little but praise
for men who spark for action during their
last weeks in Davidson while the rest of
the student body, the people who will be
affected by any change, sits idly by half
asleep, wholly unconcerned.

There are those who will consider the
foregoing unfair to the Davidson students.
Coffee time often finds conversation about
the proposed amendments. But conversa-
tion is all. An introspective glance by the
student would likely reveal to him that he
is a parrot at heart, soaking in witty say-
ings by others in order to repeat them him-
self, but leaving action buried beneath his
words. To talk, to converse, to argue, to
gripe: all is utterly useless energy sown to
the wind without the vital interest and in-
testinal fortitude to change words to
actions.

There is no doubt that the Davidson stu-
dent should get busy. A little thought on
the part of the men who will be under the
jurisdiction of these amendments will settle
the matter well before tfle end of school.
But if things are as usual the student will
remain a cistern of cynicism to the end of
time before he will use his brain to become
a fountain of constructive criticism and
building.—H.C.B.

- THE DAVIDSONIAN

244
“sp

7

yan \ toh.
ae a i Ye.
A -

ESS :
+30 a. =X Re ¥

WA
cer rth

x

. “Thomas +> You KNow Too MUCH ” . +

+: May

Oppenheimer Case Involves
More Than Scientist’s Fate

The current security case in-
volving atomic scientist Dr. Robert
Oppenheimer has already ceased to
be headline news in the daily pa-
pers, largely because there have
been no new facts or developments
since the appointment of a special
three-man board to review the facts
and announce its decision, which
is due about a week from ow.

But if the Oppenheimer case is
not occupying as much newspaper
space as it did last week, the cen-
tral issue in the case is just as im-
portant now as it was when the
news of the story broke. For the
Oppenheimer case involves more
than the innocence or guilt of one
man. The overriding issue here Is
the question: Should a person's
former political beliefs and asso-
ciations be held to forever dis-
qualify himself from public serv-
ice?

The argument which will imme-
diately be made upon the posing
of this question is that in the Op-
penheimer case it is not yet cer-
tain that he has definitely re-
pudiated his established former
political sympathies and associa-
tions, i.e., his sympathy with many
Contmunist causes and association
with known Communists in the
nineteen thirties and early forties.

Two-Fold Charge

The charge that Dr. Oppenheimer
is a security risk is based on more
than merely his former political
associations. Jt is the second
charge, which is also established,
that Dr. Oppenheimer in 1949 op-

By DICK ROPER

construction of the atomic bomb,jon the other hand did net seem
the program which President Tru-]to be the weapon of an expanding,
man ordered begun on January 31,| aggressive, : imperialistic nation

1980.

that it 4s today. And we cannot

It is, of course, the conjunction| afford to miss this point when
of these two established facts, not] judging former Communists in the
either of them singly, that is held|light of modern times.

to incriminate Dr. Oppenheimer.
Had either of them been true and
the other false, there would have

Another point that we should

FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1954

Students Take Sharp
Hit at D.C. Situation

By BELL, McKELWAY, MAHMY, MITCHELL

It is evident to these writers that
there are vast problems now facing
the student body, which we will
shortly prove. These things are of
momentous import, as some have
so ably pointed out. This may well
be!

Few students or faculty men will
deny that there is a growing aware-
ness of the need for a stronger,
more definite, and more workable
interpretation of the problem.
There are some who seem to think
this is definitely the case. Others
take a more moderate stand on
this knotty issue. As one Mr. J.
College put it, “I think it’s time we
faced the facts, procrastination
will get us nowhere.”

We have it on the best
euvtherity that ne one—student
ev etherwise—in the last four
years has seriously questioned
the need for full investigation,
analysis, and possibly some
changes. :

As you may suspect, these writers
have also come afuol of the situa-
tion. Don’t surmise then that
therefore we are merely giving vent

to personal grievances; though we
have had occasion to come in
intimate contact with the situation.
There is a valid and general felt
grievance here outside our own
feelings.

The Faculty has been wont to
inquire into these things and has
more often than not found itself
unable to give voice to any con-
crete solution, such as the type
which we propose to propose, Our
solution is not a spiteful one. It
is one that seeks for something.
It is one that may, as several un-
dergrads have indicated, strike a
blow against hypocrisy and find a
better solution than one which
might, under other circumstances,~
have worked.

Only now are we able to em-
ploy that critical spirit, self-
analysis, and truth-seeking which
pervaded other’ college campi
across our great nation two and
three and four decades past. Un-
less we continue, we may be sorry.
But if we persist in refusing to
adopt this spirt we may well find

(Continued On Page Four)

Williams Detends Legality Of
New Constitutional Amendments

Dear Editor:

Involvement, either active or
passive, in the current question of
Student Council jurisdiction over
cases arising out of honor system
violations, affords this observer an
overpowering Don Quixotic feeling.

Not that there is any inherent
danger in breaking lances in wind-
mill teeth. But this sort of thing
implies a certain obligation for
Sancho Panza to act as a sort of
steadying second, so to speak, and
to be sure that Quixote not only

Fealize is that the persons WhO) jousts with an authentic lance

were attracted to Communism in

been no real grounds to ever doubt/the dark days of the thirties and

the renowned scientist’s loyalty.

early forties were as a rule of the

What the basic job of the three-| more intelligent, intellectual
man Personnel Review Board,| classes. And it is inevitable that
headed by U.N.C.’s president Gor-] many of these same persons, who

don Gray, amounts to in the final
analysis is to determine if there

were in their twenties and thirties
during the era in question and are

is any real connection between/now in their forties and. fifties,

Oppenheimer’s former sympathies
and his opposition to going ahead
on the construction of the hydro-

This, of course, is the point at
which the fundamental issue stated
at the beginning of this article is
concerned. For we should realize
that there were hundreds, prob-
ably thousands of Americans who
back in the desperate. days of the
nineteen thirties and even in the
early forties who had some degree
of sympathy with the Communists.
These were the times, remember,
when fascism—the archenemy of
Communism—was running amuck
in Europe, and when the Depres-
sion was causing extreme hardship

AMENDMENT I.

In all matters arising under the
Honor System or the Student Body
Regulations, the Student Govern-
ment shall have complete jurisdic-
tion to try all cases. It shall be
illegal for the Student Government
to refer any such matter to any
other authority.

AMENDMENT I.
1. It shall be the duty of the
Student Council to strive at all
times for the improvement of con-
ditions upon the campus; to try
all cases involving breaches of the
Student Body Regulations; and to
have appellate jurisdiction over all
cases on appeal from the Honor

Court. Appellate jurisdiction shall|of studying the records of former

try any charges against a student
the Honor System.

3. The members of the Honor
Court shall choose one of their
members, a senior, to be chairman
of the Honor Court.

4. (To read as ART. IX, Section 5,

are men who have the experience
and intelligence in such fields as
science, history, political science,
economics, et al, to be of great
value to the Government.

Thus it can be seen that these
considerations are all-important in

(Centinved en Page Four)

against honest-to-goodness wind-
mills is real, live, red-blooded
windmill country, but that he
joust justly.

Last week, columnist Jim Moore
quoted a paragraph which he
claimed to be from the Charter of
Davidson College. For purposes of
explanation, this Charter is an act
of legislation of North Carolina,
granted to Davidson College in
1668 and bearing the full legal
weight of any such act.

Columnist Meore’s quotation,
hewever, was not from the

Cherter itself, but from a

group of By-Laws to this Char-

ter added by the Seard of.

Trustees. These By-Lews, un

like the original Charter, are

not state lews in any sense of
the word.

It follows, then, that even if the
proposed Amendment I to the Stu-
dent Body Constitution did imply
contradiction of one of the By-
Laws of the Trustees, which i dees
not, Mr, Moore would have no
legal basis for his assertion which
implies both contradiction and il -
legality.

This statement in no way renders
judgment, pro or con, on the pro-
posed amendments, nor is it meant
in ahy way serioualy to impugn the
general journalism of Jim Moore,
who is a writer of no mean ability.
We merely want to keep the gloves
ased in the ring of the same
weight, to keep them free from
between-rounds ‘tampering.

In short, let us keep our lances
made from solid, straight and true
oak, and let us joust in windmill
country like Holland or Spain, not
in the windmilless wastes of
Nairobi.

Sincerely,
ALDEN WILLIAMS.

Members Of Student Council
Defend Revised Amendments

By PERRIN ANDBRSON and LEIGHTON McCUTCHAN

Amendments I, IV, and V are/it applies only to criminal courts,
to people throughout the world.|58 who signed the petition now) designed to give the Student Gov-| working on the premise that a de-
Communism, at that time, seemed] under consideration by the Stu-/ ernment the teeth which it so sadly |fendant should be allowed every
to many as a possible way out of/dent Body, we would like to give| lacks now, and to make explicit | chance to escape punishment for a
the chaos and misery which was|/our reasons for supporting these
posed the all-out program for the the order of the day. Communism | amendments, as well as some of/ definite. The first one (note change

REVISED AMENDMENTS TO
STUDENT CONSTITUTION

As two members of the group of

the facts which led up to their
being proposed. ,

We do not
amendments will cure all the ills
of the Davidson Student Govern-
ment; but if we wait until we find
some perfect system, we'll never
even begin. Action must be taken
toward a stronger Student Govern-
ment now, or the same deadly con-
servatism and inaction will remain.
We sincerely believe this.

Amendments I and Ill involve

of the Constitution, substituting|the separation of the Honor Sys-
the words “Honor Court” for the|/tem from all other parts of the
words “Student Council,” where-/Student Government. We believe
that there is a basic difference be-| becoming a part of the Student

ever they appear.)

8. A twothirds vote of the entire|tween the Honor System and the
membership of the Honor Court|Student Body Regulations: the

shall be necessary for a conviction.
Voting shall be by secret ballot.

6. It shall be mandatory for the
Honor Court to meet immediately
after their election for the purpose,

be interpreted to mean the authori-| cases, deciding on trial procedure,

ty to investigate and act upon the
legality of trial procedure of the
Honor Court, and not the authori-
ty to reopen or re-try the case.

2. The Student Council shall have

and interpreting the provisions of

the Honor System. _,
AMENDMENT IV.
Every student upon matriculat-
ing shall be required to sign a

the authority, acting by commit-| statement as follows:

tees in cooperation with faculty
advisers, to administer and appro-
priate the funds collected by the
Treasurer of the College designated
as “Student Activity Fees.”
AMENDMENT II.

There shall be an Honor Coun
of six members, consisting of three
seniors, two juniors, and one soph-
omore, elected by the stutlent body.
2. It shall be the function of the
Honor Court to receive, prefer, and
for violations of any provision of

“Upon my honor I hereby
agree to submit myself to the
provisions of the Constitation
of the Student Government of
Davidson College. I further
agree and promise that I will
abide by the Honor System,
realizing that I must withdraw
from college if found guilty
of cheating, perjury, theft, or
failure to report any violation
-of the Honor System.”

(Continued On Pege Pour)

Honor System concerns matters of
personal honor, whereas the Regu-
lations are more in the nature of
social agreements. As it stands
now the two are often confused,
to the detriment ofithe Honor Sys
tem, because the same officers, the
same procedures, and sometimes
the same results are involved in
violations of the two systems.

A separate Honor Court would
have more time to study the tech
niques and meanings of our Honor
System befere ax critical case forces
them to make an inadequate and
hurried “ decision. The Student
Council would then have more time
to devote to being the real repre-
sentatives of the students, and to
act for them as their volce—an
aspect which is badly neglected
now. But the important thing is
that the Honor System must be
placed in a sphere by itself, where
it can be kept pure and meaning:
ful, as it ought to be.

what has long been vague and in-

on page 2) makes the Student Gov-
ernment have more guts. It makes

pretend that these! clear that the Student Government

must be the group to decide on
student affairs without passing the
buck to the Faculty. The right of
appeal is not denied any student;
but the amendment points out the
student leaders’ obligations to the
student body.

The fourth amendment, dealing
witir the signed statement, is not
designed to place anything new
under the Honor System; quite the
contrary, it simply makes clear
to an incoming student that he is

Government. He agrees to place
himself under our Constitution,
understanding what our rules are,
and the consequences for break-
ing them. It is an effort to elimi-
nate the ignorance of our govern-
ent, which has been so wide-
spread in the past.

The amendment calling for full
testimony by student witnesses
(number five) is absolutely essen-
tial, for without it the Student
Government cannot depend upon
its only source of power—the co-
operation of the students. Again,
this is nothing new; for years it
has simply been understood that
all students would cooperate fully
in aiding the Student Council to
seek out and administer justice. It
was only the strain of an unjust
rule that caused this understand-
ing to fail.

Now we must clarify the under-
standing as well as change the un-
Fust rule. It is idle to cite the Fifth
Amendment to the U. S. Constitu-

crime. At Davidson we cannot
operate on a legalistic system; we
are forced to depend on the
cooperation and integrity of each
student, without any police force
or prosecuting attorneys.

It is a question of whether we
are aiming to provide loopholes for
students to escape the provisions
of our Constitution, or whether we
are striving to emphasize our com-
mon agreements and joint responst-
bilities, Besides, it fs clear that if

|the Student Government does not

have enough support to solve its
cases, the Executive Committee
can—and di testimony.

The last amendment provides for
a more realistic and modern ap
proach to keeping the campus free
of drinking. A three-month campus
is a severe penalty, but it is not
as harsh as suspension; and it has
become obvious that most. students
do not think that drinking should
carry a penalty similar to that for
honor offenses, The campus would
be enforced by the Student Coun-
cil; it may not be a perfect solu-
tion to the problem, but something
must be done, and this is the only
workable arrangement now known.

These are the purposes and ex-
planations of the proposed amend-
ments. We, together with fifty
other students, believe that if Stu-
dent Government is to mean any-
thing at all here, we must take
these beginning steps before it is
too late, even though they may not

be perfect. We sincerely urge the

students of this college to think
carefully and act decisively to pre-
serve their right to govern. them-

tion as applying to our situation; | selves.
