n- 6 THL HOT DAVIDSO.IIAN

‘ Volume 2, Number 2 cn 30, 1951

SOUTHLRN SCALDAL your mone? aftcr the games are over. If
you. like to read, there arc numcrous mnag-

Exams gave. come and gone, leaving their azines arid books for your cnjoynent.
2:

nesty 4 S upon. our poor, deienseless  ~=«*Let's nave a party ! {Wiv, haven't you
bodies, But, huck up, there's always next Heard, there's one over at the Union
semeetler to fet revenge, every Vednesdsuy night. Brid:.c? Dancing?
3u.i,, Greene muttering as he receives Games? Food? Yes, you name it and that's
* orders to rénort to Phoenix City... what makes up the party. More funt! Last,
Gene Bargsron and Dill Garrison plan ‘but not least are the Saturday nigi.t movic
a rifantic trip vo Lake Lure, Both are and Sunday T. V. programs.
ansistunt that they are only coins to . So sce tliat I.mcan. The College Union
enjoy the scenic view..... 1s just the ; reatest thing on the campus,
ine river (poor .an's Miami Beach) is AO Matber whet _ou're lookin, for>-fun,
soastantly visitea b, such tourists as Norm food or iricads—you'll find it Laeres
Richards, Peck Spay h, Diehl Sluss, Ray SRSA IAEA BECHER ES
iiardin;,, Sellers Crisp, Julian wcairberg .
Virgiaia Puller, and man. other carefreé YOUR Y. Mave. aA. PROG AM

st ents sees A
olla Cunningha: trying. to solicit votes ilow. that we have reached the half-way
trom his frat brothers for 2 new fratern- mark i: our Sumner school proram, I frcl

itv sweethcarteces tnat tue YuCA should take a lance both
bennie Barker contznucs to master backwara sand forward. in my. own estimat-
CHEMLSLELY sees ion, tie cabinct members have thus far

harry prownlee. tarovs fala party at the shown not onl» a willingness to do their
rover. Cucsts surpris: @ that their dates assirncd wor... in the best inanacr possible,
were not. quite as vad oif as the:-thoutt, but have maue many contributions toward

Sharlic harris takin; extenuded- weekends the cffectivenes. of the Y suimmer prog ram

in’ Cuarlottessc.. - as a whole. In the social prograns and
Edo (Roundman) Do lass waduling.into feeds tuat have been a repular icdnesdzy

mion to eat lunch.... ‘ nic: affair, Clark Recéhas proven him-

‘ cheese Lambert wants to know if somcone self nov onl; a connoisscur of fine foods,

wooly "please". help aim in‘ ais extension. but also an aclce “organiger", The Y

0. TAMs cee ' apologizes ror the fact that somé of the
“pead, tontyome y, and Thorpe clau late=tencrs to these feeds nave not obtain
Ldstic Florfda trip. "Be Bop" to pilot ¢d Guough to cats but it is a difficult
& cralbecee » problem which tne sdcivl cabinct post faec

kv Smith has asked wt to tell vou that They have nc wey of cstimating how many
—¢ last weal at thé union will be served persons io prepare cor tach week, The
"iu md ht, ant21 fuesda, morning vreak- safest bet is to come as carly as porsible

Gast. jowever, tne saack oar: ill open’ to be sure of ectting olenty to cat. .

wouda, nuit at 6:00 P. ix. Also, there In the intramural prog ram, Henry Brock--
4 * gi ¥4 be no movite choun at ihe union Sav- mann and hie comaituc ave worked hard to-

uraay sii Dbeee. preset a u.cli-bdalanced sencdule of event

ope, all you «ids vave a. reat weekend, we woule’” like vo encouraze entranis in bee
but seve ap some ener y for ftuescay class- Various touruamenis to playtieir ping eng
Since “ and tennis matcncs ‘as svon as pos. ivlc.
, Sue yOu arornd the CamoUSeeece. Time is rapidl, cunainy out and the commit
JVGHHEIHERIL eS HeUReEAeReEeunMadee  tce is anxLous to olan otucr tournaurmcnts
a5 soon as bncse erc complrcted,.

KArrcS KO-ED USNR? whe response that was made as a recut o:
: the first all prayer ageting of the tenn
TUL. COLLEGE UjIGN wes ver, @ratifyin,. Slyde Robinson and.
’ the four grou. leaders are pytting much
What's the hizh lisht o: our campus? thou ut into their ciscussions; ct it is

why t'. College enon, of coursc. LVverye totall, up to tue imbers of cach darn to
“GUY'S MLet2og ground, and wuy not,.tause consrivnt. toward wakin: 10:30 P. i, on

y just lookcat 211. the recreation, food and Tucsday evenins a period of spiritual re-
- food tints tnat are over tre-e jus. waitingfrYshment., The sunday. Vesper survice under
or us to take advantage of, the Gircevion of Allie Cone nes also been

~ Have rou lost anything? (11, if you an ingsnlrationel pericd of sony and devot-
EG Li's vound to he. found at the desk in ion. We ope you will make’ this. service ©
jc shoss and found departient. Are you a rupular occasion on vour wick-cnd calende
“Uunyry? Are. jou in search of delicious oi: events.

D “od Gs inoetrecn neal, snacks? Retisc Finally, many students ino si, ned the pre
Room the caréteria av me 1s ana tne snack bar, fercnsc shects for coimiunity and cxtension
Vertical YOU should have «co trouvle along tne Lines work have uc intention of actavely taling

File of starvation, are our; cttine vored or part in the program, As of this tame, we
Fovot& tired of strainic:: tic sain? tf you. arc, have neccived no czlls tor suppl pastors,

Drawer just cone On over and rélax. I. vou'tre So -tnose iho were sincere in signi... uo for
a nusiec lover, tic music room and records tnis puase of Y work have not buen called
arc just "Zabulove". An,one for pool or on, VUnecec Lambert, who is ix charge of
pin, peng? Dewnscairs 1s well equipped © uxverngion Work, woulu aporeciate pn, as-- -
wit. to ot tS, Cue sticus and balls, ahgingsistance tiat cen be Liven in ordér to make
pon. pedcles dua clso.e little man ‘to take to make this pro; ram. morc cfiective. As

‘ (continucd on next pagc)
