2

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL

VOICE OF DAVIDSON

COLLEGE

VOL. XLII

Committee Outlines
U.C.M. Sketch Contest

Tom Warlick, chairman of the
Publicity Committee, and Walter
Davis, chairman of the Arrange-
ments Committee of Religious Em-
phasis Week, announced today
that a contest for a sketch portray-
ing the theme of Religious Em-
phasis Week will be held.

The contest is open to all the
members of the student body, and
the winner will receive a prize of
five dollars. The second and third
place entrants will be awarded
three and‘two dollars, respective-
ly. The deadline for all entries is
November 29, which is the first
Monday after the Thanksgiving
holidays.

The idea of the sketch is to por-

tray the theme of Religious Em-:

OVERCUT PENALTIES
DEFINED BY FACULTY;
FINES ABOLISHED

Davidson College Treasurer D
Grier Martin has announced that
strict enforcement of parking reg-
ulations on the Davidson Campus
will begin Monday, November 15.
Parking and enforcement will ap-
ply to all persons using automo-
biles on the Davidson Campus, in-
cluding students, members of the
faculty and staff as well as visi-
tors.

The principal change in the en-
forcement is the provision for in-
creased penalties for second and
third offenders. Any person who
feels that a penalty has been im-
posed improperly will pay the pen-
alty as provided by the regulations
and will then make a written state-
ment of the considerations under
which he feels that he should have
a refund of the penalty. Payment
of the penalties must be made to
the Bursar’s office within 24 hours
after the violation notice is placed
on the car. .

The new regulations and provi-
sions for enforcement are as fol-
lows:

Parking Regulations

1, No parking by students, facul-
ty, staff members, or visitors is
permitted in any places marked
“No Parking” or on any grassed
areas on the Davidson Campus.

2. Certain areas on the campus
are restricted for the use of visi-
tors and members of the College
staff. Other areas are restricted for
the use of students.

Enforcement

1. Students and employees of the
College will pay within 24 hours
following posting of violation no-

(Continued On Pege Four)

GERMAN FRATERNITY
INITIATES ELEVEN

The honorary German fraternity,
Delta Phi Alpha, held an initiatory
meeting at Dr. French’s home Wed-
nesday night. Dr. Vowles and Dr.
Beatty were present. Refreshments
were served by Mrs. French.

Those initiated were Al Moreau,
David Regen, Kerry Spiers, Bob
Stevenson, Jason McManus, Jeff
Bulle, Jim Armistead, Hugh Ma-
lone, Jim Morrill, Pat Miller, and
Brown Goehring.

A committee was appointed to
look into the possibility of spon-
soring a German club.

HOFFMAN SAYS “YES”

{gill at the YMCA office to obtain

phasis Week, “The Mature Christ-
ian in the Changing South.”

Sketches should be simple and
symbolic, provoking real thought.
The entry should be submitted on
approximately 8”x11%” slick pap-
er or slick cardboard. It is sug-
gested that entrants see Sam Ma-

possible ideas, to get a further
general idea of what is wanted,
and to see any other information
that might be desired.

The winning sketch will be used
on all publicity that is distributed
locally on the campus for Religi-
ous Emphasis Week, February 6-
10. It will also be used as a huge
backdrop for the stage.

re
/

¢
‘i

LUTHER SCALES

Luke Scales Receives
Appointment To East

Boston.—Luther Lee Scales of
Shawmuf, Alabama, a Davidson
graduate of the class of 1953, has
been appointed for a three-year
term as educator in Talas, Turkey,
under the American Board of Com-
missioners for Foreign Missions.
Mr. Scales, who attended Prince-
ton Theological Seminary after ob-
taining his A.B. degree from David-
son, will teach English in the
American School for Boys in Talas.

This will not be Mr. Scales’ first
contact with the Near East, for
he served this past summer in
Greece in one of the Work Camps
of the World Council of Churches
where he met students and teach-
ers from schools in both Greece
and Turkey and felt the challenge
for service in that country.

Spanish Club Meets;
Iniflates 21 Members

Davidson’s Spanish Club initiat-
ed 21 new members in its Novem-
ber meeting Wednesday night. The
Club also made plans to attend a

meeting of the Winthrop College
Spanish Club November 23. Films,

slides, and discussions of summer

trips to Mexico were presented.

New members of the Club in-
clude: Hugh Bryant, Mack Calcote,
Don Carmichael, Cecil Dickson,
Tommy Dobbins, James Gardner,
Johnny Johnson, Ray Keeter, Rob-
ert Keown, Branc Knox, Charles
Lambert, Gary Maynard, David Me-
Fayden, David McLain, Belton O’-
Neall, Ray Robinson, Robert Shaw,
Sam Sutton, John Trask, William

| Warlick, and Willard Wolfe.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,

AUSTRALIAN SPEAKS] YMCA Leaders Attend

AT VESPERS SUNDAY Retreat In Mountains

The Reverend Professor J. F.! The YMCA Cabinet left this af-
Peter, Professor of Theology in|ternoon for a weekend retreat at
the Theological Hall of the Pres-| montreat. This is the first Cabinet
byterian Church in Queensland,| retreat of this year, and Rev. Ma-
Australie, and Lecturer in Theo-/ gilt states that he expects it to be
logy at the University of Queens-| of great value to the boys attend-
land, wil) speak at Vespers Sunday | ing,
evening. The primary purpose of the

After receiving a Bachelor of] weekend is to enable the cabinet
Arts degree and a diploma in Edu-|to get away from the campus to
cation from the University of Syd-| think and talk together about its
ney, Rev. Mr. Peter enlisted in the | job of guiding the activities of the
Armed Forces and served as an|Davidson Y. The thinking is to
aircrew officer in the Royal Aus-| be done in the light of the con-
tralian Air Force during World|temporary nature of the univer-
War II. He rose to the rank of|sity. A second purpose is to help
Flight Lieutenant and was men-|each to deepen his own spiritual
tioned in a dispatch for distingu-| jife; and as a result of this to aid
ished service. the cabinet members in the direc-

Following the war he returned |tion of their Y posts.
to his studies for the ministry andj Among the activities of the
spent two years, 1946-1948, in St.| week-end will be a weiner roast
Andrews's Theological Hall at Syd-j and square dance on Saturday

ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE

N. C.,

The Hauidsonian

FRIDAY, NOV. 12, 1954

PRESS

INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS

Belk Dormitory Scheduled For
Second Semester Opening

By BILL STEWART

_ In spite of a month’s delay caused by the unavailability of
limestone, the W. H. Belk Dormitory will still be completed
by the first of February, unless some unforeseen delay occurs,
it was announced this week by Treasurer D. Grier Martin.
This should mean that the building can be occupied by stu-

dents during February. Current plans contemplate the re-
moval of the R.O.T.C. Department from its present location
into its new quarters on the basement floor of the Belk Dormi-
tory during the Christmas holidays. The college shop will be
then moved into the Present R.0.T.C. building, and the old
shop building removed. This will permit the filling and grad-’
ing in front of the new dorm which will be necessary before
occupancy.

The interior of the dorm will be

ney, which is the Theological Hall | night with the Queen's Cabinet.

of the Presbyterian Church in New
South Wales, Australia. Honors in
four subjects were awarded him on
his graduation.

Simultaneously Rev. Mr. Peter
had been working for a Bachelor
of Divinity degree at the Univer-

Bus-Eco Club To Have
Address, Orientation

The Business-Economies Associa-

sity of Sydney. He finishes work | tion will hold an informal meeting
on this in 1950. He was the first| in the Green Room of the College
student to take double honors in| Union Monday night, November 15,

divinity at this University.
To fill any spare moments he

at 9:30 p. m.
The meeting will feature an

might have, he served as minister | orienting session for new members

of St. Andrew's

Presbyterian | and an address by Professor Mor-

in Maroubra, a suburb of Sydney./ton on the values and concepts of
It was from this church that he} graduate work in Business ‘Admin-

was called to his present post.

istration. The address will be in

In addition to his other duties,| part a continuation of the discus-
Rev. Mr. Peter holds the Caldwell-/ sion begun at the association's pre-

Morrow
History and is on the Board of

in Church] vious meeting. ‘

The orienting session will con-

Studies in Divinity at the Univer-! sist of an explanation and discus-

sity of Queensland. He also was
elected a delegate to both the Sec-
ond Assembly of the World

sioh of the plans, purposes, and
organizational structure of the as-

un-| sociation.

cil of Churches and to the Gegeral} All members of the Business-

Council of the World Pres
Alliance.

Charlotte Post Mice
Positions Available

Postal jobs during the Christ-
mas holidays are available to stu-
dents from Charlotte and vicinity.
The Charlotte Post Office needs
approximately 275 additional work-
ers to help with the Christmas
mail rush.

Applicants must be 18 years old,

rian| Economics Association and stu-

dents considering the possibility

of entering a graduate business

school are cordially invited to at-
* moecting.

Company C Wins First
Monthly Drill Award

Company C, under the command
of Cadet Captain G. M. Canon, was
selected Tuesday afternoon as the
best all-round company of the
Davidson College R.O.T.C. Regi-

——

CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER ... Here Next Week

HERE NEXT FRIDAY

Miss Skinner Returns

Special to the Oavidsonian
BY DUNBAR OGDEN

_ DAVIDSON.—Friday night, November 19, the Davidson Art
ist Series will present Cornelia Otis Skinner, one of the fo:
most actresses of our time, in a program of her famous mon
logues. This will be the second appearance of Miss Skinner
on the Davidson stage, as she was heard here with much en-
joyment and received with a great deal of enthusiasm two
years ago.

Miss Skinner’s mother was the gifted Maud Durbin and her
father is one of the finest actors the American stage has pro-
duced—Otis Skinner. Born in Chicago, she has been in con-
stant contact with the theater since early childhood. At fifteen
she attended Baldwin School, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, where
her mother volunteered to coach a Shakespearean production

or older, and are required to live | ment.
in Charlotte or within the delivery! The selection was made on the
limits of the Charlotte Post Office. | basis of appearance, drill perform-
Since the Post Office will be} ance, and command leadership.
operating on a 2¢hour, 7-day per| Such a selection will be made once
week schedule applicants must be|egch month by the Cadet Regi-
available for work at any time of] mental Commander C. A. Cooper
the day or night. The rate of pay| and the Regimental Staff.
is good. Cadet Captain G. M. Canon, com-
Those students who are interest- mander of the best company, is
ed in this employment should| from St. Angelo, Texas. He is ma-
write directly to Mr. George E.| joring in English at Davidson and

Wilson Jr., Postmaster, United is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha

command of Cadet Captain T. W.
Work Volunteers ed this year under the direction of
ational program among the white

oe J ve

All The King's Men

the work will take only a very

Men” tonight and Saturday at 9

States Post Office, Charlotte 2,| social fraternity.
N.C. The runner-up company this
Lambe Jr., of Winston-Salem.
The monthly selection of a “best
The Boy's Work Post of the) Cadet Col. Cooper. Plans have been
YMCA urgently needs a number of made to grant a free drill cut to
and colored boys of the commun-
ity.
(Continued On Page Feur) To Be Seen At Union
The College Union Film Com-
p.m. This is the Academy Award
winning adaptation of Robert Penn

YMCA Ask F Bo month was Company F, under the
S$ FOr Boys

company” was a new idea initiat-

men to help in its club and recre-| members of each company chosen.
Experience is not necessary, and

mittee will present “All the King’s

Is Marlowe Shakespeare? 22":

New York — William Shake-
speare, over whom students have
sweated for more than three cen-
turies, is possibly history’s biggest
fraud.

It is more than likely, says the
current issue of Esquire Magazine,
that William Shakespeare wrote
‘none of the great plays attributed
to him, but merely signed his
name to them, under an arrange-
ment with the real author, Chris-
topher Marlowe.

That is the contention of a
Shakespeare scholar, Calvin Hoff-
man. His theory that Marlowe
wrote the “Shakespeare” plays is
explained by author Robert Heil-
broner in the Esquire article, “The
Murder of the Man Who Was Wil-
liam Shakespeare.”

History tells us that Marlowe was
stabbed to death in a tavern brawl
several months before Shakespeare
published his first play. But his-
tory, says Hoffman, is wrong.

The fact is, according to this new
theory, that Marlowe faked his own
murder in order to elude govern-
ment prosecution of a sedition
charge. Charged with seditious and
atheistic writing, Marlowe faced
certain torture and possible death.

So, says Hoffman, he pretended
to be murdered and fled the coun-
try. A few months later, he return-
ed and spent the rest of his days
as a secret guest in the castle of
Lord Walsingham, Marlowe's
known friend and benefactor.

‘It was from this castle that he

“Murder” is the correct word.! wrote all the “Shakespeare” plays

novel of the same name.

there.

At Bryn Mawr her talent was
immediately recognized, and here
she began writing her monologues
which have so delighted her count-
less audiences.

Cornelia Otis Skinner made her
real entrance on the professional
stage in Blasco-Ibanez’ “Blood and
Sand” at the Empire Theatre in
New York. Her rise to stardom
is a story filled with success piled
upon success. One of the high
places in her repertoire was the
production of “The Wives of Hen-
ry VIN,” which was followed by
“The Empress Eugenie,” and “The
Loves of Charles It.”

In “Mansion on the Hudson”
Miss Skinner accomplished an ex-
traordinary feat of acting a whole
play by herself. Her unique per-
formances by now had won for
her a critic’s designation as “. .
the greatest single attraction of
the American theatre...”

A transcontinental tour of “Edna
His Wife” was a triumph in the
actress’ life, and her first venture
as a star with a full company in
Shaw’s great play, “Candida,” add-
ed another laurel to her now-
famous name. The next season she
appeared in New York in “The-
atre,”” by Somerset Maugham, and
this was followed by Lillian Hell-
man’s “The Searching Wind.” Miss

Skinner's greatest dramatic success
was as the star of the Broadway
production of “Lady Windermere’s
Fan.”

Today Cornelia Otis Skinner, the
author, is as well known as Cor-
nelia Otis Skinner, the actress.
She has written all of the series
of sketches with their pathos, hu-
mor, and satire, which she is to
present here next Friday night.
Outside the theater her writing
has been as successful as it has
been on the stage.

Her first book, Tiny Garments,
did for prospective mothers what
Irvin S. Cobb did for hospital pa-
tients in Spesking of Operations.
The New Yorker and other leading
magazines began to find that she
had a real gift for the light essay,
and her articles have appeared in
Herper’s Bazaar, Vogue,
Housekeeping, and Ladies Home
Journal. A collection of these ap-
peared under the title of Excuse
it, Please!

Her third book was Dithers end
Jitters and, in collaboration with
Emily Kimbrough, she wrote “Our
Hearts were Young and Gay,”
which was filmed. Miss Skinner’s
most ambitious and successful
book is Family Cirele, which is the

(Continued On Page Four)

and sonnets.

Hoffman has a hunch that the
origina] manuscripts—bearing Mar-
lowe’s signature — are buried with
Walsingham in his tomb. But he
must get permission to open the
tomb from the Vicar of Chisel-
hurst. Thus far, the vicar has re-

Stars include Broderick, Craw-
ford, Mercedes McCambridge, Jo-
anne Dru, John Derek, and Jobn
Ireland. Two of these won Acad-
emy Awards—Broderick Crawford
winning one for being the best
actor of 1949, and Mercedes Mc-
Cambridge for the best supporting
role.

ENFORCEMENT OF PARKING REGULATIONS
TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY STIFF FINES

A meeting of the Executive Com-| days; a third overcut will result
mittee of the faculty has clarified] in suspension from college.

penalties for overcutting college Th
e office of the Dean of Stu-
exercises and has abolished fines dents will warn both the student

fused permission. “AN the King’s Men” is a fic-
If Hoffman ever succeeds in op-| tional version of Huey Long's rise
ening the tomb and finds what he| to power in the state of Louisiana.
is looking for, he will have single-| Broderick Crawford is cast as Wil-
handedly solved a 300-year-old|lie Stark, a demagogue who sets
murder mystery, and exposed his-| up a one-man government.
tory’s most outrageous literary! The film was desicribed by
hoax. Christian Century as “absorbing
But it probably won't help stu-|. . . provoking, if discouraging, in
dents much. They'll still have to| its reasoned satire on vicious local
slave over “The Tragedie of Ham-| Politicians, brazen misuse of pow-
let;” but the course will be called|eF, and the people's weakness,
“Marlowe,” not “Shakespeare.” (Continued On Poge Four)

as one of the penalties for over-
cutting. Tuesday, November 9, the
general faculty approved both
measures at its regular meeting.
In clarifying penalties for over-
cutting, three passed with regard
to students who by immoderate
cutting find themselves subject to
Executive Committee action. After
the first overcut the student is on
probation; after the second over-
cut he is restricted to the town of

and his parent (or guardian) when
the student receives his first over-
cut, and will make clear the se-
quence of penalties to be imposed
for continued violations.

Action taken with regard to the
penalties imposed for overcutting
has been in progress for some
time, and is in no way connected
with Tuesday’s action by the facul-
ty with regard to the cutting of

Davidson for not less than thirty reviews.

very modern, and all the newest
conveniences will be included in
the student rooms. A built-in Java-
tory with a yee ed medicine cabi-
net will be the corner of each
room near the door. Immediately
down from that will .be two large
closets, separated by a large built-
in bureau. Over the closets will
be large storage spaces, which will
have sliding doors to make access
to them more convenient.

Further down will be a large
built-in desk and bookcases. Each
desk will probably be equipped
with a flourescent study lamp.
Across the room will be another
identical desk, and of course, two
beds separated by a lighted night
table. The rooms on the fourth
floor, many of which will be single
rooms, because of their dormer
type construction, will have desks
with bookcases built in the sides.

Floors in the rooms will be cov-

ered with block-type linoleum,
while the floors of the lounge,
stairs, and stairwells will be cov-
ered with tile. Steam heat will be
used, but the radiators will be
‘sjosed in metal cabinets.
In addition to the 298 students
who will occupy Belk Dormitory,
there will be a lounge, and an
office for the Supervisor of Dormi-
tories, Mrs. R. A. Little, and a
visitor’s rest room. The R.0.T.C.
will occupy the entire basement
floor, and will have a separate en-
trance on the north side of the
building. The rifle range will be
located in the sub-basement near
the laundry.

Mrs. Little, Supervisor of Dor-
mitories, says that all seniors want-
ing to move to the new dorm will
have first preference to the rooms.
Next choice will go to those stu-
dents living in Carolina Inn and
the Village, since both of these
structures will soon come down.
She asks, however, that room res-
ervations not be made till after
January, since definite floor plans
and other necessary information
are not yet available to her.

The W. H. Belk Dormitory was
made possible by the gifts of the
W. H. Belk family and business
associates, together with funds
made available from other sources.
It is named for W. H. Belk, foun-
der of the Belk Stores which are
now located all over the South and
in other sections of the country.

Commission

The Commission for Effective
Citizenship of the YMCA which is
sponsoring the World Citizenship
Forum, will present two programs
Wednesday, November 17, in
Chambers Auditorium. The topic
of this forum will be “Supreme
Court Decision: Obstruction or Im-
plementation?” The purpose of the
forum is to present the problems
and the possible methods of ap-
proaching it in regard to the re-
cent ruling on segregation in the
public schools.

Speaking in these programs will
be Mr. James M. Dabbs of Mayes-
ville, South Carolina, and Mr. Bev-
erly Asbury of Zebulon, N. C.

Mr. Dabbs has been a professor
of English at the University of
South Corolina, but has recently
retired to his farm to write ex-
tensively for the Christian Century
Magazine, the American Scholer,
and Presbyterian Outlook, His writ-
ing has dealt with the social, re-
ligious, and economic life of the
South.

Mr. Belk was for many years a

trustee of Davidson and his five
sons all attended the College.

The building, including land-
scaping, moving of buildings and
other necessary items will cost ap-
proximately $850,000. When allow-
ance is made for the R.O.T.C. De-
partment and the extra work not
directly connected with actual con-
struction of the building, the cost
is a little more than $2500 per stu-
dent. This is considerably below
the average cost for similar dor-
mitories in the Southeast.

JOHN FESPERMAN T0

GIVE ORGAN RECITAL

John Fesperman, College Or-
ganist for Catawba College in Sal-
isbury, will be presented in the
first of the 1954-55 organ recitals
at Davidson College on Sunday af-
ternoon, November 14, at 4:30 P.
M., Donald Plott, Director of the
Department of Music at Davidson
College, announced recently.

A native of Kannapolis, Mr. Fes-
perman is presently an Associate
Professor of Music on the Cataw-
ba College faculty and is also fill-
ing the temporary position as col-
lege organist and Instructor in
Organ at Davidson College, his
Alma Mater, in the absence of
Philip Gehring who is on a Sabbati-
cal Leave.

The Sunday recital will feature
the Bach “Trio Sonata II in C Mi-
nor,” the “Organ Sonata No. 1” by
Hindemith, selections by Vierne
and the Max Reger “Toceata in D
Minor.” Mr. Fesperman will begin
his program by playing Bach's “St.
Anne Prelude” and close with the
“St. Anne Fugue.”

The series of organ recitals as in
past years will be held in the Da-
vidson College Presbyterian
Church, beginning at 4:30 P. M.
The series is presented annually
by the Davidson College Depart-
ment of Music without charge.»

Dr. Jackson To Speak

At Bucknell Services
Dr. Frank L. Jackson, formerly
treasurer of Davidson College, will
be the speaker at Bucknell during
wat college’s Religious Emphasis
eek.

Of Y.M.C.A.

ponsors Forum Soon

Church of Zebulon, N. C. and a
graduate of the University of Geor-
gia and Yale Divinity School. He
has frequently been a group dis-
cussion leader at the University of
North Carolina and has recently
been the main speaker at the Re-
ligious Emphasis week at Atlantic
Christian College.

In the morning Mr. Dabbs will
give the historical background of

j segregation and reasons which led

up to the Supreme Court decision.

That evening, at seven thirty, Mr.

Dabbs will give an idea of the prob-
lems which the South faces as a re-
sult of the ruling, and Mr. As-
bury will discuss the local effects
of the ruling. This will be follow-
ed by a discussion from the floor.

The Commission for Effective
Citizenship chose this topic be-

cause of its capital importance to
the young people of the South.
This forum will not in any way de-
tract from the University Chris-
tian Movement which will be held

Mr. Asbury is at the present the | here later in the year, but will sup-
minister of the Zebulon Baptist plement the U.C.M. program.
