THE DAVIDSONIAN

ef Be oeers ©

Forum on.Morality and Politics
Ofters Obligation, Opportunity

Davidson students and other members of the college
community have an obligation as well as an opportunity to
take part in Tuesday’s YMCA forum on the general subject
of the relation of power politics and moral responsibility.

Though the college student may consider this remote to
his present personal welfare, and something he can influence
little, if at all, he should nevertheless remember his respon-
sibilities as a citizen and a potential leader in either secular or
religious affairs. These responsibilites include that of being
well informed on current issues and on their deeper implica-
tions. If he takes no interests in anything out of reach of his
fingertips he can be sure that others will, and will run domes-
tie and foreign affairs to their own satisfaction. Any person
takes a chance with his own future in the long run if he con-
cerns himself with problems of immediate personal interest
only, and lets the rest of the world go by.

Notable Progress Marks
Y Social Post This Year

It seems to us that the social work of the YMCA has been
more than usually successful here this year.

PAGE “PWQ. v-~-2r.o:.

OFF-MOORING :

(Writer's note: This week's
column is the result of an en-
deavor to discover new depths
of opinion and analysis found
among fellow students. As
well it is the point of departure
for a new era of Off-Moorings.
The purpose of which will be-
come apparent with time.)

By BILL MOFFETT

Idealists, both those who wish
to preserve tradition and those
who are attempting to make oir
school a pleasant place to live and
work, have been pleased to regard
our collegiate community as “one
big family.” Doubtless this has
strong appeal for young men en-
tering these halls for the first
time. But to those who care to
view our community with a critical
eye, wise with the wisdom only
a Davidson senior can have, the

"

Sy

A Sustifieble Cleim

To be sure, there are many
reasons why such a phrase might
be applied to our liberal arts col-
lege, isolated as it is and char-
acterized by those conditions which
make for the family complex.

It is located in a town with which
it is identified by common in-
terests as well as by name. The
citizens are linked to the life of
the school by innumerable ties, and
share their heritage with students
and faculty.

The alumni maintain a close con-
tact with their alma mater, and

Last Friday night’s post-examination dance in the ball- SA ¥ real truth of that description
room of the College Union met with almost universal ‘approval [ss seems often illusory.

among those in attendance, and this appears to be a hopeful
omen for other such Y-sponsored functions given in con-
junction with the Union.

We feel that -Bill Shipley and his co-workers on the
social committee of the Y deserve genuine commendation for
making that organization’s social functions a great deal more
attractive to students this year than has been the case mafy
times in the past.

By and large the passing of the “wide-open” exchange
days with neighboring girls’ schools is not greatly lamented.
Too often these events resulted in numerous blind dates being
stood up and the Y social chairman left with a dozen or two
unclaimed and rightfully hurt girls in his care, who went
away with anything but a favorable impression of Davidson.

If the YMCA sponsors occasional affairs such as this it
will find itself meeting a real need as well as gaining a more
favorable position in the opinion of many students. Certainly
ministering to spiritual needs is an important function of any
Christian group, such as the Y, but this need not and, indeed,
should not be its only function if it is aspiring to the fulfill-
ment of a more complete ministry.

Adoption of Entrance Tests
To Work No Hardship on Frosh

The announcement that beginning in 1955 all prospective
Davidson freshmen will be required to take the College Board
examinations or similar tests administered by the college be-
fore being admitted will doubtless stimulate some anfavora-
ble comment among many parties.

A good part of this criticism will probably stem from
a prevalent misconception of the purpose of this test and
the part that it plays in determining whether a student will
be admitted. It is generally thought that the college or insti-
tution administering such an examination arbitrarily sets a
minimum or cut-off score, and that those students making a
score above this margin are almost automatically admitted,
while those failing to attain the score are rejected.

But Davidson, following the example of most other schools
which employ such tests, will use the grades that examinees
make only as a complementary factor in determining fitness
for admission. There will be no minimum cut-off score be-
neath which no students will be admitted. To those who do
well on the tests will accrue the advantage of having their
scores used as an offsetting factor against other less favora-
ble factors in their past records. On the other hand, appli-
cants who make a low score on these tests will not be
eliminated, but their score will be weighed against their other
qualifications in order to determine whether they will be able
to do acceptable work at Davidson College.

Thus, no one will be admitted or rejected solely on the
basis of this examination, and it will only be used to enable
those responsible for admissions to make their decisions on not Tienting hanting “Russian im
a more intelligent and informed basis. This they could hardly | perialism, which has as its avowed
do previously when depending heavily on high school
transcripts, the records of which are governed by no set| Letter to Editor:

at Does Chamber’s Have Need

Davidson joins a small but growing group of colleges and
For “Money Bags” Plaque?

universities in the South which are using the College Board
or similar entrance examinations, and is the first school in
North Carolina to require the exam of male applicants. At
present Duke University requires women applicants to take! Dear Editor: some should give $5.00, the task
the examination, and is contemplating requiring it of all} Goooious alive, what's that!” be just as demanding on the
prospective students. Other southern schools requiring the| «thing competing with the second- family ga puirof range Wranglers
test include Washington and Lee and Agnes Scott. floor Chambers’ clock for student/ioq better dash in the distant
attention? Though I don’t pretend | goors to chapel exercises
to know the background of that} 1 may be that ['m all wet on
plaque, which lists the generous

THE DAVIDSONIAN donors to the development. drive, getting a little hot about plaster.

ing that pl n the Chambe
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE it does seem to me that something| wan but at the same time I recog.

4
I’d Link to Give You WHAT You DESERVE Too, MR. Jones,
wi*

ONLY The OGANS GRADING SYSTEM DoEsnir GO THAT LO

Peaceful Coexistence Possible

Only With Full Armament

By DICK ROPER

aim the establishment of Russian
Communism throughout the world,
What is “Peaceful
Coexistence”?

Let us also define “peaceful co-
existence.” By this do we mean
existence with no friction between
the democratic nations and Rus-
sia, or do we mean simply exis-
tence without an actual state of
war? This is not merely splitting
hairs. For it should be evident that
if we choose the former defini-
tion and then declare that peace-
ful coexistence is possible, then
we can begin to seriously consider
disarming. But if we decide, on
the other hand, that this phrase
means only existence without an
actual state of war, but still be-
lieve coexistence is possible, then
we must continue to be armed to
the teeth.

To get at the heart of the
question, let us suppose, from the
ideal Christian viewpoint that it
is possible for the democratic na-
tions of the world to exist side by
side with Russia with no conflict
or friction between the two
camps. What evidence do we
have to support this contention?

As far as I know, all we have
to prove this is the constant cry
of the Russians for Peace, which
they claim is principally being pre-
vented by the United States. But
at times they tone down their at-
tacks on the U.S., and actually
claim that if the Western world
would really support the efforts
for world peace, this situation
world exist.

Quotes From Lenin
As recently as January 21, Peter

N. Pospelov, a top Communist
party official in Russia, declared
that there was no reason why
the two opposing camps couldn't
get along with each other, if they
would only cooperate. From the
extensive writings of Lenin, the
founder of the present Bolshevik
state, Pospeloy chose those which
would emphasize most the Soviet
Union’s wish for peaceful coexist-
ence with the West, “The Soviet
Union is doing everything that is
necessary to solve peacefully all
outstanding world problems,”
Pospelov asserted.

This seems to be the extent of
the evidence supporting the Com-
munist claim to being the leading
advocates of world peace.

On the other hand, what is the
evidence proving the contrary as-
sertion, that we can't expect to
get along without trouble from
Russia? It is, I believe, twofold:
in both the principles which Lenin
laid down in his writings, and in
actual Russian practice since World
War Two.

Two Types of Evidence Here

Of the former type evidence—
Lenin’s doctrines—there are many
examples of the idea that capital-
istic democracy and Communism
cannot get along with each other.
nwo of the most illuminating fol-
low:

“As long as capitalism and
Socialism remain, we cannot live
in peace. In the end one or the
other will triumph—a funeral
requiem will be sung either over
the Soviet Republic or over world
capitalism. This is a respite in
war.” .

(Socialism, as far as Lenin was
concerned, was of course, only one
of the early stages of Communism.)

“We are living not only in a
state, but in a system of states,
and the existence of the Soviet
Republic side by side with other
imperialist states for a long time
is unthinkable. One or the other
must triumph in the end. And be.
fore that end comes, a series of
frightful clashes between the So-
viet Republic and the burgeois
States is inevitable.”

Experience with Russians

As for Russian Communism in
practice, we have only to look at
the history of the past decade,
Since the end of the last war,

“is peaceful coexistence be-
tween Communism and De-
mocrecy possible?”

Of all the subjects offered for
consideration by fraternity discus-
sion groups last night in connec-
tion with the YMCA forums on
“Politics and Morality,” none is
perhaps so directly concerned with
the immediate future and eventual
fate of we of college age as that
question.

In attempting to form an opinion
on a question of this nature, in
which the fortunes and welfare of
all of us are vitally concerned, it
is always a good deal easier to
answer in terms of what we hope
is possible, rather than what we
might say if we had no stake in
the outcome of the current tense
international situation.

Definitions Necessary

But before making an attempt
to discuss the problem and come
to any sort of conclusion, we might
do well to first define some im-
portant terms in the question at
hand.

When we speak of democracy,
we mean the free nations of the
western world, at least in the
context of this question. But
exactly what do we mean by Com-
munism? It often comes as a sur-
prise to people to learn that the
U. S. is actually aiding a country
which openly claims Communism
to be its ultimate goal—the Balkan
state of Yugoslavia, headed by
Tito. Realizing this, we should
then be able to see that we are

On Tuesday the YMCA will pre-
sent a forum on the subject,
“Politics and Morality.” As I un-
derstand it, the subject is not
meant to include problems on the
national level—graft, etc. This
forum will be concerned with dif-
ferent approaches to the foreign
policy of the United States. The
moral approach will be handled
by a man who is employed by the
National Council of Churches and
who has taken graduate work in
political science. The opposite ap-
proach, perhaps cold-blooded is
better than immoral, will be sup-
ported by the head of the Depart-
ment of History at Duke Univer.
sity.

I would not attempt to outline
the arguments ‘which these speak-
ers will present. But there are a
few points on each side ‘about
which we could think profitably
in order to benefit from this
forum, Where the national interest
and the morally desirable coincide,
there is no trouble. When these
two purposes conflict, the differ-
ences in opinion can be tre-
mendous.

The realist would say that the
moral thing to do is that which
is in the national interest regard-
less of ethical concepts. He would
believe that the nation should
recognize and support any govern-
ment which will advance its in-
terests, We are following this con-

many. The realist would advocate
the use of preventive war if that
seemed in the best interest of the
nation. He would intervene in the
affairs of other nations to further
his purposes. For example, if Great
Britain were following this policy
today, she would attempt to re-
start the war between Israel and
the Arabs in order to divert
Egypt's attention from seizing

only one view. He would use it to
buy the allegiance of foreign
states, and he would make sure
that the government once bought
would stay bought. In short, this
“amoral” view is that of pure

COLLEGE YEAR is on off key “ueely al nize that everyone who goes to| Russia has overrun almost all of power politics, Its main short
t sure, it’s nicely divided ac-| Davidson or has some relation to] Eastern Europe; she has actively coming iro m conse °
a nesS MANAGER oe 1 Smith cording to the amount given Da-| the college is not within the means| aided and abetted Chinese Com- » aside any ten.
arley Hasty + > . tious objections, is that it relies
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Jim Moore, Dick Roper vidson College, and I guess it’s alof getting his name or parents’| munist aggression in Korea; she f for maintenance. If

1 Assisteat Raitors Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hascet, || Pretty goodlooking thing. Yet I|name on public boards. Also I am|has indirectly alded Communist| WP, ona States attempts it
Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen Hunter Strader begin to wonder about several} not placing direct blame on any-| aggression through the rebe) Viet- e be prepared pts it, she
Editors Henry Brockmann Floyd Feeney things upon coming out of chapel/one, but I do wish to make my| minh force in Indochina; and she must r to follow it

Managing , and looking at that bunch of | comments. has continually provoked the free thro

Sports Editor —_.-____________——s«John Handley
News Editor __ Austin Strand Feature Editor — T. A. Williams
Art Editor _.._.____ Ed Price Photographer ___. Andy Simons

The Davidsonien cartoonists are
urged to get to work for the issue
this Friday night.

nations by one or another type of| The moral view of politics holds

names. Immediately, I wonder how
harassing tactics, such as the Ber-| that certain principles of right and

much the erection of the whole
works costs. Off hand, I assume

Asst. Bustiess Manager Blake Brinkerhott Nicholson || that money would help a football} It is a concern to me how such| agree on an Austrian peace treaty. rather than the needs of the mo
Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor player, or pay a hundred or so; nonsense can run parallel with the} In short, Russie’s deeds have|]ment. The moralist would have a
Circulation Manager Dick Little || College Union fees, or help a fel-| good reputation which Davidson| been like thunder in comparison| hard time supporting any war,
Collections Manager Tim Cooper low through this semester of] supposedly has, I guess Id better|to her hoarse cries for peace, and|let alone preventive warfare, He
schooling. Secondly, what about/run home and reproach Dad for|I believe that anyone who allows|would think that the United

| Matered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, [/the student who has parents in-|not being well off. himself to accept at face value|States had a responsibility to see
N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1607. capable of whipping out a thou- With sincerity, the Communist claim to be in fevor]that foreign nations hed the gov-

| sand or so dollars? I feel that if MIKE YORK. (Continued On Page Four) ernment of their choice. He would

lin Blockade and the failure to| wrong should guide diplomacy!

. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY. 6, 1954...

By JIM MOORE

many of the professors were once
students in the same small class-
rooms over which they now pre:
side,

The students, coming as they do
from the same strata of society,
and sharing the same general
background, experience a kindred
spirit which is increased through
the democratic way in which we
live together on the campus.

Over all, students, faculty, alum-
ni, college employees, citizens of
the community, there exists a spirit
of harmony.

If, then, these characteristics
justify Davidson’s family complex,
what advantages might be expected
to exist? Certainly they are both
numerous and important. For ex-
ample, the common interests and
the absence of hostility on the
part of the townspeople affords an
atmosphere of friendliness not al-
ways known by other schools. Too,
the active participation and sup-
port of alumni, as well as the fact
that many faculty members are
Davidson graduates, makes it not
unreasonable to assume that the
administration has a basic knowl-
edge of student problems, and can
follow a policy sympathetic in na-
ture and constructive in design.

The paternalistic flavor of the
school, of which we sometimes
make valid criticism, nevertheless
imparts a subconscious and satis-
‘fying aura of protection, removing
as it does those occasional threats
to the student’s sense of security.

By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

want to use foreign aid for humani-
tarian and creative purposes rather
than to buy a balance of power.
The main fault with this concept
is that its principles do not always
conform to the national interest,
and no foreign policy can succeed
when it does not benefit its na-
tion.

Our national interest and the
moral belief that we should de-
fend nations from aggression co-
incided in Korea. These two points
of view do not always coincide.
The moral politician might say
that we should have defended
Czechoslovakia from Communist
penetration, but this was ap-
parently beyond our capabilities or
best interest. He might say also
that we have no right to stop
Britain’s trade with Red China,
but he must at the same time de-

7

Davidson Family—Fact, Fiction?
Column Embarks on New Era

This feature of the Davidson family
is thus not without value, despite
the fact that it may give birth to
other problems, or which we will
speak later.

The small and closely integrated
campus, its interdependent depart.
ments, the small size and informal
procedure of the classes—all com.
bine to play down divisions and
create a solidified school spirit.
The common background of stu.
dents and faculty, the democratic
way in which they operate, and
the absence of strong sectional, ra.
cial, or class conflict all lend
themselves to a unique harmony
of interests.

Such eo harmeny festers co-
operation and e sense ef re.
sponsibility between individ-
vale. One does net sense the
attitude of “each man fer
himself” prevalent where ten-
sion and distrust predominate.
Rether, ovr honer system is
devoid of suspicion and causes
us to relax eur guard te the
extent that when a thief from
the “outside” enters our der-
mitories, he finds us extreme
ly vulnerable.

Serious Shortcomings

The Davidson family, we say, is
a very real thing. There are defi-
nite reasons for its existence.
There are important and unique
results, mostly advantageous. But
there are glaring shortcomings
which can and ought to be ad-
justed.

Should Foreign Affairs Be
Moral Or Cold-blooded?

plore our making it possible for
war to be continued.

The speakers may at first at-
tempt to present their sides as
all white. This is not true, but
neither are they all black. The
moral point of view has its limite-
tions in that it does not permit us
a versatility of policy in different
situations and does not permit us
to take full advantage of our op-
portunities. But the other approach
does not promote stability and
peace in the world unless there
is one side which has such over-
whelming power as to enforce its
views without question. If this
forum will help us to find the
proper balance between the two
extremes, it will make us all bet.
ter citizens in today’s complex
world, despite our relative isola-
tion from it while at Davidson,

No
Xv

~— ees
WAN
. =

“4

Lots

@
TA
we

7374"

~

‘z-

Wi
\e

PQ\

SY

SX
Ww,

~

COFRED UNDER AUTIONTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, NW. C.

“Cebe™ to @ repiviored tede-merk.,

Orvsa. me coca-cova commer
