FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1954 THE DAVIDSON

One night last week
had one of Davidson's
loyal basketball fans
wandered into John-
ston gymnasium about
nine o’clock he might
have glanced up at the
scoreboard; rubbed his
t eyes; looked again;
and then believing
himself to have wan-
dered by mistake into
the Raleigh Coliseum
might’ have turned to
leave. Sound strange?
Davidson ahead by 50
points! That’s a strange
sound to fans who have
watched the Cats in the past! Davidson, a team which dropped

Wildcat Wrestlers Idle
After Stronger Showings

By BILL HESTON
This year’s vastly improved Wildcat wrestlers are now
in the annual exam lay-off period after having made fine
showings in the meets to date. Coach Parker started out with
almost the same squad he had last season without help of the
freshmen, but he has molded these men into a winning team.

By JOHN HANDLEY

Take Break

its opener to Guilford.

Usually the holiday layoff hurts the Cats, but not this

year. The men of the red and black have looked like an en-

tirely different ball club since they opened their New Year

by dropping to McCrary’s Eagles by only 10 markers. Since

that time they have won two

and lost one, looking good in

- each game. One of those wins, against the Citadel, was a con-
ference affair, and that puts the scrappy Cats just that much

closer to a tournament berth when the Morgantown affair

comes up in early March.

We would like to join Professor McGavock in extending

a hearty vote of-approvarto Coach Miller and his Cat cagers

for a job well done. We might add a time worn clichee for

the Davidson fans, however, WIN OR LOSE, LETS BE GOOD

SPORTS!

sh6e:06mtmmlhlm8

Congratulations are in order also this week to Mr. Paul

Scott, our Athletic Director, who was named at the recent

meeting of the NCAA in Cincinnati as the District Three

(Southeastern U. S.) representative on the Wrestling Rules
Committee of the NCAA. Scott, who has been an amateur
enthusiast for quite some time now led his Cornell wrestling
squad to two national championships in his coaching days

before coming to Davidson to take over his present position.
He has done much to promote the sport in this area since

arrival on the local campus.

* ¢ ¢ 28

Davidson’s 1954 football Wildcats will have a new look
next fall as far as schedule goes. The recent dropping of the
traditional N.C. State clash and the proposd new encounter
with Florida State and the adding of Catawba and Elon be-
sides the changes made when the schedule originally came
out will mean a change in the old “bloody, but unbowed”
scheduling philosophy followed for so long. it looks as if it
took nine straight defeats to do the trick, but if it has resulted
in the scheduling of a reasonable slate of opponents for the
“not that bad” Cats, then we say it was worth it. Dr. Johnston,
head of the faculty section of the Athletic Council, and Mr.
Scott, director of Athletics, assured this reporter that these
changes do not indicate any drastic changes like dropping
out of the conference, but rather a recognition of the fact
that we have been playing too far out of our situation and an

s

| a

effort to give the boys a chance.

It will be after exams when the
grapplers again go into action
when they face North Carolina
State here on February 2 on the
local mats. Coach Parker believes
our Wildcats should give the
State men a tough fight and
finish on top.

The last encounter of the Cats
was with the Blue Devils of Duke
who edged them in a tight meet,
17 to 13. However, in previous
meets the Cats tied Carolina and
also defeated the “Tea Sippers” of
Emory University, 27 to 5.

Much Improvement

Some of the members of the
team have shown a great deal of
improvement this year. Charlie
Murray in the 130-pound class has
wrestled 8 times and won 7. He
also won in the Carolina AAU by
pinning every man he met and
was voted outstanding wrestler in
the tournament.

Johnny Buxton and Don Reid
have also been doing a lot of good
wrestling this season. Buxton has
won 5 of his 7 matches so far this
year.

The meet on February 2 with
State will probably see these men
wrestling for Davidson:

Varsity Squad
Bobby Joe Key —.....» 123 Ibs.
Charlie Murray .. 130 Ibs.
Don Reid — 137 Ibs.
John Buxton - .- 147 lbs.
Henry Faison . 157 Ibs.
Henry Faison —....._._. 157 lbs.
Bill Coe _..._____..._... 167 Ibs.
Monty Littlejohn .... 177 Ibs.
Dave Burns .....___.. Heavyweight

Freshman Squad

Box Alexander 123 Ibs,
Evert Price . 130 Ibs.
John Grey —. 137 Ibs.
V. R. Snyder —- 147 Ibs.
David Brown . 157 lbs.
Joe Whitesell] —.....0.... 167 Ibs.
Sonny Vinsey —..._....... 177 lbs.
Tom Firor Heavyweight

The remaining schedule for the
Cats is as follows:
State, February 2 (Here)
The Citadel February 12 .___(Here)

Freshman Cagers
Boast Good Record
At Half-Way Mark

By JOHN HOLSHOUSER

The Wildkittens, in the midst of
a very successful season, gave the
student body something to yell
about Monday night as __ they
scrapped the North Carolina frosh
until the final buzzer, only to come
out on the short end of a 72-56
score.

The freshmen showed a team-
work system to make up for the
height advantage held by the Caro-
lina team and showed a real knack

for ball-handling. Gaylord Walker | |

was high man for Davidson with
23 points. Richard Weeks, hitting
with his usual accuracy from the
outside, followed with 17.

Five Remaining

The remainder of the schedule
consists of five games, including
Gardner-Webb, Pfieffer, Charlotte
College, Kannapolis “Y,” and one
other game which will be an-
nounced. With the steadily’ im-
proving shooting and teamwork
being evident as the season pro-
gresses, the remainder of the
schedule shows good possibilities
for some victories for the Kittens.

Gardner-Webb Strong

They have defeated two of their
upcoming opponents, Pfieffer and
Charlotte College, without being
too heavily pressed, while Kannap-
olis “Y” controlled the backboards
to defeat the Davidsonians 52-46.
Gardner-Webb is new on the
schedule and they could furnish
some tough opposition for the
speedy Kittens.

Thus far into the season, Gay-
lord Walker holds the scoring lead
of the team with 98 points and
an average of 12 points a game:

W. & L., February 18 .__. (Here)
V.P.L, February 22 (Here)

FRAT CAGERS OFF TOHOT START

fhe interfraternity basketball
season got off to a red hot start
this week with all indications
pointing to a close and exciting
race before the season is over.
Three teams emerged from this
week’s action with clean slates as
some real upsets marked the 24
games played. The ATOs, Betas,
and Phi Gams lead the league after
downing two foes apiece this week.

The ATOs showed the most
power of the leaders in winning
easily in both their games while
both other teams were involved
in very close games. The Pikas
scored the most number of points
in one game as they downed the
KAs by a 55-41 count. Corky
Clark of the Kappa Sigs scored
the most number of points for an
individual with a 22-point splurge.

Murray Page of the ATOs tops
the individual scorers for the
week, however, having turned in
19-point performances in each
game. Page leads with a 38-point
total, Clark is seeond with 37, and
Lindley Beardsley of the Pikas is
third with 29.
- Following is a summary of this
week’s action:

Botes 43, Kappa Sigs 42

In the closest one of the week
the Betas made a brilliant come-
back on the setshots of Billy Mc-
Nair to beat the highly touted
Kappa Sigs by a one point margin.
Corky Clark of the Kappa Sigs,
led the individual scoring with 15
for the losers, while McNair was
high for the Betas with 14.

ATO 40, Phi Deits 32

Sparked by the scoring prowess
of Murray Page the league leading
ATOs showed their power as they
took the measure of Phi Delts by
a 4032 count. Ralph Petree was
high for the losers with 10 in a
game that featured a slow start—
halftime score—12-8,

Phi Gams 33, Sigme Chis 29

Getting their 1964 season off on
a winning note the league-leading
Phi Gams took the measure of the

Champion topped the night’s,the victors and to turn in the
seoring with 15 while Tom Shaw] highest individual total of the

connected for 10 for the losers.
Pikes 55, KAs 43
In the week’s highest scoring
game the Pikas rolled to a 55-41
victory over the defending cham-
pions of the league as three of
their men found the double figure
range. John Handley hit for 17
while Bob Owens got 15, and
Lindley Beardsley got 12. Pete
Bridges was high for the losers
with 10.
Pt Kepps 37, SAGs 31
With Charlie Robinson leading
the way with 12 points, the Pi
Kapps knocked off the SAEs by a
37-31 total. Dyke Little hit for 12
for the losers.
Phi Gems 37, SPEs 35
In another thriller the Phi Gams
managed to stave off a last-minute
surge by the Sig Eps to down them
by 37-35. Comer led the Phi Gams
with 12, while Stowe and Connell
each collected 10.
ATOS 53, Pi Kapps 40
In another high scoring contest
Page and Baker teamed up with
19 and 17 points respectively to
lead the powerful ATO attack to
an easy victory. Swain collected
11 for the Pi Kapps.
Phi Delts 37, Pikas 33
The Phi Delts used a fine de-
fense and some cool ball handling
to down the Pikas in a game that
was marked by 38 fouls called.
The Pikas’ Lindley Beardsley was
high man for the night with 17
markers, as Ralph Petree hit for
8 to lead the victors.
Sig Eps 44, independents 30
After a slow start the Sig Eps
came back to roll to an easy win
over the Independents. Reid
topped the individual scorers for
the night as he sank 15 for the
Inds. while Connell got 8 for the
Sig Eps.
Kappa Sigs 45, KAs 39
The Kappa Sigs showed their
strength as they rolled over the

season. Bridges got 9 for the sag-
ging KAs.
Betes 38, Sigma Chis 28
Hitting their scoring stride the
Betas pulled away in the final
minutes to down the cellar-dwell-
ing Sigs by a 38-26 margin. Big
Tommy Lambe hit for 14 for the
Betas as Bob Mitchell got 9 to
lead the Sigs.
Independents 40, SAEs 28
With Bobby Brown leading the
way with 19 markers the Inde-
pendents rolled to an easy victory
over the last place SAEs. Dyke
Little again led the SAE attack
with 10 points.

THE STANDINGS
2 =
2

ATO

Beta

Phi Gam
Kappa Sig
Pika

ind.

Sig Ep
Phi Deit
Pi Kapp

a“wanmrwaw Ooo

Tracksters Prepare
For indoor Meets

The Davidson tracksters began
their preparation early last week
for the coming indoor track sea-
gon,

Three meets are on the indoor
schedule. The relay team will en-
ter the Winter Relays at VMI on
January 30, while the rest of the
team swings into action in late
February. The Southern Confer-
ence Indoor Meet will be run at
VMI on the 19th, while the Cats
will participate in the non-confer-
ence division at the Carolina In-
vitational Indoor Meet at Chapel

KAs by a 46-35 count. Corky Clark | Hill on the 27th. The Carolina meet
Sigma Chis by a 33-29 count. Larry| poured through 22 points to pace} is the AAC conference meet.

Siam Chi _____.. ° 4

SAE __._..__._.... 0

cme Pe “Ee

How the] stars got started...

Eddie Sauter and

leaders of America’s most excitingly-

different dance band, met in 1939
as struggling young arrangers.
Ed had studied trumpet and
drum at college, worked
up to arranging for
“name” bands; Bill
had studied in Paris,
won a spot with Tommy
Dorsey. After 13 years
of pooling new ideas,
they formed their

own band. It clicked!

For Mildlness
aad Favor

Camels:

Carrell who have been consistent

IAN PAGE THREE

W.&L. HOSis TO CATS TOMORROW

Face Conference Foes
Before Mid-Year Break

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson’s up-and-coming basketball team travels to Lex-
ington, Va., tomorrow where the cagers make the first stop
on a three-day road trip against Southern Conference op-
position in Virginia. Tomorrow night, the Cats meet Wash-
ington and Lee’s Generals. After a one-day lay-off on Sunday,
the Davidson club moves to Blacksburg to meet VPI.

Davidson now owns a one-won,
two-lost record in Southern Con-
ference play. The Cats have lost
to VPI and VMI, while taking their
lone conference decision over The
Citadel. ;

The contest with Washington |
and Lee may turn out to be aJ'!:
very close one. The Generals are! f,
rated a slight favorite since they | ,.
are the home club. Last Monday,
the W&L outfit lost to George
Washington’s powerful team,
84-53.

(Seek Revenge)

Monday night’s tangle with VPI| ;
will find the Wildcats looking for | §
revenge for the 68-61 setback they
suffered at the hands of the VPI
cagers in a pre-Christmas scrap at
Davidson. The Gobblers, however,
will be meeting a club which has
improved greatly since the Decem-
ber encounter,

Beginning with a close, 91-81
decision dropped to McCrary
Eagles, the Davidson club has

___, | averaged 71 points per game in!’
four battles since they returned, ° ATTENTION °
from the Christmas holidays. The] >
Cats’ high mark for the season was|* The first annual Southeast- °
the 89-point spree turned in against]* ern United States Intercol- *
Newberry last week. * legiate Volleyball Tourne- *
The Cats also ‘walloped The}* ment will be held at Davidson °
Citadel in a Southern Conference}* on February 26 and 27. So *°
scrap, 62-51. The players have}* far there have been nine en- *
hustled consistently and havel* tries turned in with several °
usually hit about 40% of their] fine teams represented. .
shots from the floor, an average}* Davidson's entry will be *
which is very creditable. * picked on a tryout basis and °

Cat Swimmers
Make Slow Start The marked improvement by big|* much student interest in the *
George Melton is one of the big}* tournament is expected. Mr. *

Davidson’s swimming team finished up their pre-exam| reasons for the sudden change.|* Scott, who is the director of °
activities on Wednesday as they were edged by the Univer-| Melton has been hitting with much|* the tournament, will also serve *
sity of South Carolina Gamecock swimmers in the local pool. hetter consistency and has heen * as the coach of the Davidson *

getting a large share o ose all-|* team. .
ihe nad peen beaten previously by wide margins by important rebounds. Melton’s im-|* Mr. Scott has asked that all °
and Carolina. provement has enabled Ccoach!* men interested in trying out °
The Cats showed a lot of im-] winners for the Kitten swimmers. Danny Miller to move Graeme|* for the Davidson entry meet *
provement in Wednesday's meet in| This duo has been lauded as two Keith to a forward slot, getting|* with him on Monday night at °
losing by only two points in a real| of the best swimmers to come t0/ -ome much-needed height into the|* 7 o’elock for a very short meet. *
thriller. The Cats could manage] Davidson in recent years. line-up. * ing in the trophy room of the °
only four first places, but pulled Hobby Cobb continues to be the|* gym. This will serve as an or- *
up in the lower places showing a leader in individual statistics. In]* ganization meeting and Mr. *
lot of hustle and determination. eleven games, Cobb has grabbed|* Scott assures all those inter: °
Ormond Tops 145 points for a 13.2 average per|~ ested that it will be very brief. °
Al Ormond, the team's individual game. He has also gotten 92 re-|* The teams entered thus far °
high scorer for the past two years, bounds and leads the team in that|* are: Applachian State, David- *
has shown that he’s after that title department. * son, Elon, the University of *
again as he has turned in some In their last outing, the Cats|* South Carolina, Erskine, Ala- *
fine performances in the meets to lost to the Tar Heels of UNC, 70-54.|* bama State College of Jack- *
date. Although Davidson led through-|* sonville, High Point, Lynch. *
The freshmen have also showed out the first quarter, Carolina soon|* burg, the University of North *
a lot of promise, especially in the went ahead to stay. Jerry Vayda; * Carolina (tentatively), and *
persons of Tom Rivers and Bob was the leading scorer for both|* Florida State. .
teams with 19 points.

BUDDY BROWN
One of the Cats’ most im-

proved cagers, Buddy has
shown good scoring punch and
fine rebounding ability in
early season's play.

Yt
HOBBY COBB
The Cats’ top scorer and rebounder is forward Hobby Cobb from

e e e Sd e@ e e ° * e

Charlotte. Hobby scored 145 points in the eleven games to date
for e 13.2 average per game. He has also gotten 92 rebounds as
he performs in his sophomore year in a Davidson uniform.

Deluxe Ice Cream

Mooresville Ice
Cream Company

Mooresville, N. C.

Chuiton-Finogon, Onchectro.

AMERICA’S NEWEST, MOST COLORFUL DANCE BAND

Bill Finegan,

START SMOKING CAMELS

YOURSELF! Smoke only Camels
for 30 days and find out why
Camels are first in mildness, flavor
and popularity! See how much
pure pleasure a cigarette can

give you! —

* WITH ME, CAMELS CLICKED
INSTANTLY. THE FLAVORS HOW
1 UKE TT, THE MILONESS
> JUST RIGHT.”

.
Mame,

CMONCE QUALNTY

THAN ANY
OTHER CIGARETTE!

agree with more people
