FRIDAY, SEPT. 24, 1954

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The gates of Rich-
ardson Field open to
the public for the first
time tomorrow, and for
most fans, a first look
at the '54 version of
the Davidson Wildcats
will be in the making.
Many are eager to see
if last week’s upset win
over V.M.I. up at Lex-
ington was just one of
those occasional slip-
ups which happen
every so ofen. Some
are still skeptical that
a Davidson ball club
can be a winner. But it
appears that Coach Bill Dole has the formula for success on
the gridiron. This year’s squad has the makings ot a fine
machine, and with the fine spirit that the piayers are showing,
things are definitely “looking up” in Davidson football for-
tunes.

When we speak of the spirit shown by the team, we're not
just talking about the intangible thing frequently associated
with Davidson athletic teams. That is around, too, but there
is also a spirit which can be seen clearly from the sidelines.
Coach Dole’s squad is three-deep at every position, and the
fighting for that top spot can be seen any day of the week on
the practice field. The players are hitting very hard in prac-
tice and frequently tempers flare. When the spirit of a team
is as high as this, opponents better watch out.

Last week’s win was accomplished without the services of
two of Davidson’s sparkplugs, Jimmy Thacker and Harry Peter-
son. When it was announced that neither would play against
the Keydets, groans were heard on all sides. But the sopho-
mores on the squad plugged the big gaps in fine style. This
Saturday Thacker returns to the line-up, and Peterson should
be ready to go next week. Their added support will make the
‘Cats a hard combination to stop.

In Charlotte last night, the Charlotte Quarterback Club
honored Gene McEver in the first meeting of the season. Mc-
Ever is a former coach in addition to being an All-American
fullback at the University of Tennessee. The reason for the
celebrating was that McEver was recently voted to football's
Hall of Fame. It is an honor which comes to few, and we ex-
tend our congratulations to Mr. McEver.

The fraternity sports managers meet Monday to decide the
schedule of events for this year’s inter-fraternity athletic pro-
gram. One of the most probable changes is one concerning
tennis. As fraternity tennis players will tell you, the situation
of the past year was not very good. Play in the competition
vas carried on over several weeks and each player played ev-
ery other fraternity representative. Play was slow, and at the
end of the time limit, only about half of the matches had been
played.

Very few players are satisfied with the present situation,
and most agree that some sort of change must be made. Last
spring, The Davidsonian presented a plan for a tennis tourna-
ment to be held over a two-day period (or perhaps three days).
Since that time we have received several replies from players
who are in favor of the idea. Most players are in favor of a
tourney similar to the one now held in wrestling competition.
That is, with each advance, a player would pick up a certain
number of points. An advance into the semi-finals would be
worth more points, and so on with the winner getting the
highest score.

Holding off a last minute spurt
by Gerald Wilson, John Patterson
|

won the freshman cake race here | of

last Friday. Clocking a time of

8:59.7, only about 20 seconds short
of the record set last year by Pete

field to win. Wilson was the run-| day.
ner-up and came close to winning | The Stetson team invades the
as he put on a fine finish. The rest | campus as an “unknown quantity.”
of the first ten cake-winners were: |The Hatters have had no previous
Buddy Weathers, Harry Heinitsh, | contests and have sent no advance
Mike Martin, Dan Woods, Bruce | information about their squad, oth-
Shipley, Phil Diuguid, Andy Ham-| er than the usual roster.
ilton, and Bob Baker. | With an entirely new coaching
This year's cross country has | staff handling the Florida boys,
started workouts, and several of | anything can be expected. The Stet-
these boys are looking good in ear- | son crew may give local fans a sam-
ly practice. Coach Whittle has|Ple of the. “spread” formation
Floyd Feeney (the team captain), which is so popular in the South-
Dick Lovette, and John Handley as | West, since the Hatters’ new Head
his only returning lettermen from | Coach is former line coach at Tex-
last year’s squad. Ashcraft, Jack-' a5 Christian University.
son, Huntley, and Bondurant are The Davidson Club is rated as
members of last year's frosh squad \the favorite, though the margin is

| who are working out with the team. | smali. The Hatters have a big team,

land could prove to be a stronger

multiple-team meets, has been an- club than most students anticipate.
nounced by Coach "Whittle. The| ' the Davidson backfield, Jim-

State meet at Raleigh and the AAU |™Y Thacker will return to the line-
meet here will involve several up. Thacker missed last week's con-

ime | test due to a bruised shoulder. Har-
are | ry Peterson remains on the injured

A five-meet schedule, with two

The complete schedule is listed} jst, and will’see limited, if any,
below. | celia tomorrow

Oct. 8—Maryville (away) Sparkling play in last week's

Oct. 16—Richmond (here). | game has promoted several mem-

ae _ | bers of the squad to roles as start-

Oct. 22—William & Mary—N. C.| ers. Coach Bill Dole has announced

State (at Raleigh). |six changes in the starting line-
Oct. 30—V.M.L—Washington &/| up, with five sophomores now in
Lee (here). the top positions.
. Bill Gramley, Bob Campbell
. 8—State Meet. we .
wie wees | Tom Lee, Adair Hatcher, and Don-
Nov. 15—V.M.I. (away). la

Nov. 20—AAU (here). | e
‘M

8
O
R’

QUALITY MILK

Coach “Pete” Whittle has an-
nounced that there will be a
meeting of all the fraternity
sports managers at 7:30 p.m. on
Monday night. The meeting will
be held in the Trophy Room at
the gymnasium, and all fraterni-

ties are requested to have a |
representative present.

Mooresville

Do Not Miss This

Special Display of
Campus Clothes

Creamery, Inc.

To Be Host To
First Home Game Sees Juwor vary Little Stars As Cats

Dole’s Men As Favorites Win Lexington Contest

Davidson's winning Wildcats will play host to the Hatters |
Stetson University here tomorrow in a contest which marks
| the opening of the Davidson home schedule. The game is set
for 2:30 p. m., and a large crowd is anticipated, largely due to
Ashcraft, Patterson left the large) the fine game played by the Wildcats against V.M.I. last Satur-

... AND HOW IT STARTED

V. M. I.
+

SCHEDULE SET

A three-game schedule
| Davidson Junior Varsity has been |
announced by Athletic Director
Paul Scott, and several more con-
tests are being planned.

nie McCree will be the starting | against McCallie. Other games are
sophs. Thacker will start opposite | 4gainst the Lenoir Rhyne Junior |
McCree in the left halfback slot,! Varsity and Gordon Military, with |
and in the other major change, Jim | these contests being played away.
Fasul will start at guard | The “J.V.s" will be coached by

The probable starting line-ups} Bill Acker, a 1953 Davidson stand- |
for the two squads are listed be-j out, Leroy Fargason, and Charlie |
low: | Cousar. .Fargason and Cousar ave!

Stetson Davidson | being used as coaches, since both
LE—Hoffard were hurt in past games and are
LT—Kammer able to play on this year's

<siiiaiaias Gramley |
Lee | not

LG—Hill D. Davis | squad.
C—West Price The Junior Varsity is composed |
RG—Siekaniec Fasul| primarily of freshmen and sopho-
RT—Gerding Hatcher | mores who feed more experience |

RE—Shamrock Campbell before being moved up to the var-}

QB—Semanie Rowland | sity. Being given a chance to play |
LH—MeBryde Thacker | regularly is what the coaching |

FB—Marks
RH—Henry

Brown | staff feels will make these boys
MecCree' into top-flight material. |

ge ee 2 é Sa
Dyke 4 iomore quarterback, was the sparkp'
week's victory over V.M.|. Little threw two scoring passes, one to -

Sparked by the passing of sophomore Dyke Little, Da-

favored Keydets.

Little paced the Wildeat seor-
ing punch, throwing two touchdown
passes. With less than a minute to
go in the first half, he stepped
back and threw a fourth down pass
in@W ihe waiting arms of soph end,

dim Fasul, back from the armed
services, is proving to be as good
as ever. Fasul was one of the
standouts in the Wildcat line last
week and will start at guard to-
morrow.

Tom Newton. Later in the contest,
he connected with a 25-yard toss
to Donnie MeCree

Don Campbell, fleet-footed sopho
more halfback, scored the other
Davidson touchdown, Campbell in-
tercepted a Keydet pass and scam-
pered 35 vards to score.

| vidson’s Wildcats opened their 1954 gridiron campaign by
taking a 19-0 win over V.M.I. last Saturday. Coach Bill Dole’s

The Junior Varsity will open its| charges pushed across a TD just before the first half ended
schedule here on October 15,| and then racked up two tallies in the last half, upsetting the

GREEK FOOTBALL
10 BEGIN ON
MONDAY, OCT. 4

Davidson's Inter-fraternity ath-
letic program will get under way on
Monday, October 4, it has been an-
nounced by Coach “Pete” Whittle.
On that date, the first of the foot-
ball series will take place. Though
the sports managers of the various
raternities have not met with Whit-
tle, it is certain that football (the
non-contact version, that is) will
continue on the program.

Whittle states that most of last
year’s sperts will be included in
the schedule for this year. One ma-
jor change may be the establishing
of a tennis tournament, instead of
play held over several weeks. The
drawn-out tennis program has prov-
en ineffective in past years, and it
is probable that the sports mana-
gers will change this feature of the
year's. program.

Coach Dole, when questioned
about the win, gave three reasons
for the Wildeats’ surprising show-
ing. He said, “The efforts of Coach-
es Clements and Hambright, the
fine team spirit, and the excellent
physical condition of the squad
were largely responsible for the
victory.”

Mooresville, N. C.

Newton and the other to McCree.

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of fine Foods for any taste
in Eating — Specializing in teak,
Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

Phone 3-286!

"/ started smoking sh college.
For /7 years lve enjoyed
Camek Smooth mildhess
ahd good rich Favor
You ought to try Canes / ‘

DouGcLaAs LEIGH says: “After leaving
the University of Florida (where I'd
sold yearbook ads), I had big, crazy
ideas about making new kinds of
spectacular displays. So I bought a
Brownie and went to New York to
photograph rooftops. My first sign was
a huge, steaming coffee cup on
Broadway. At age 23 I was starting

to learn an exciting business!"

iglicclegh,

Creator of Broadway's Giant Spectaculars

© Sohn Meck 8 Son

Mooresville’s Finest Store”

Student Union

Tuesday and Wednesday

(all day long)
September 28 and 29

START SMOKING CAMELS
YOURSELF! Make the 30-day
Camel Mildness Test. See how Camels
give you more pure pleasure! See for
yourself why Camels’ cool mildness
and rich flavor agree with more people
than any other cigarette!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Featuring Famous Brands

Buy for Cash, Lay-a-Way
or Charge Accounts

Our Store Located Only 6 Miles
North of Davidson College

SUCCESS STORY: Camels —

eS Uae oselae capureite ... by fat AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE

