PAGE FOUR

SERGEANT |Court Of Control
“|\Blographies Given

Davidson's 1954-65 Court of Con-
trol, in its first session Monday
night, tried and sentenced a num-
ber of accused freshmen on charg-

A es of violating student regulations.
P) Eight members of the student
=/ body make up the court.

They are as follows: Henry
Brown and Harley Smith, mem-
bers of the Senior Class. Both are
football players. Henry, an SAE, is
{rom Carrollton, Ga. Harley, from
DeFuniak Springs, Fla. is a mem-
ber of Phi Delta Theta social fra-
ternity.

‘| Harry Peterson, also a senior,
is judge of the court this year.
Harry is an SAE from Columbia,
S. C. John Buxton, last but not
least of the Senior court mem-
bers, is a Kappa Sig, from Sum-
ter, S. C. He will serve as record-
er this year.

_The junior members are John
McLaughlin and Dickie Adams.
John, a Beta, is from Raeford, N.
C. John played freshman basket-
ball, and is serving as second vice-
president of the YMCA this year.
Dickie Adams, a basketball star
from Bay Village, Ohio, is also a
Kappa Sig. Dickie served as pres-
ident of the Beaver Club last year.

Sophomore members are Dick
Belton and Bill Gramley. Dick,
from Mt. Airy, N. C. is a Kappa
Sig also. Bill, a Beta, is from
Winston-Salem. He was a member
of the freshman football and track
teams. and is now playing varsity
football for Davidson.

Any upperclassmen having com-
plaints against freshmen can ob-
tain complaint forms from any of
the members of the court.

M/SGT. W. D, FIELOS

Master Sergeant W. D. Fields of
the Davidson College R.0.T.C.
headquarters has had a long, inter.
esting, and diversified career in
the armed forces.

M-Sgt. Fields entered the army
in June, 1935, as a private. His
first six years in service were
spent at Ft. Sam Houston, Texas,
-with the Second Infantry Division.
During this period, Fields rose to
the rank of sergeant.

In 1961, Sgt. Fields was tran-
ferred to an infantry replacement
training center at Camp Walters.
Texas, where he remained for two
years. Holding the rank of Ser-
geant First Class, he moved in
1043 to a tank destroyer training
center at Ft. Hood, and in Septem-
ber, 1944, he moved to Camp Ruc-
ker, Alabama.

After World War U, M-Sgt.
Fields was tranferred to the In-
fantry School at Ft. Benning, Ga.
He went to Puerto Rico in April.
1047, with a mechanized calvary
butre reurned to Ft. Benning in
1046, where he remained until the
beginning of the Korean War.

In July, 1950, M-Sgt. Fields went
to Korea with the Third Division
as @ replacement. In Korea he was
attached to the 21st Regiment, 24th

‘Infantry Division, where he serv-
ed at various times as platoon ser-
geant and first sergeant.

-MSgt. Fields returned to the
United States in July, 1951. After
several moves, he arrived at Ft.
Benning, where he was attached
to the Army Field Forces Board
until January, 1053. .

At this time M-Sgt. Fields ap-
plied for R.O.T.C. duty, was ac-
cepted, and was sent to Davidson
College. As Sergeant Major, or
chief clerk, Fields is responsible
for the administration of the en-
tire unit. ;

Next June, at which time he will
have completed 20 years of ser-
vice, M-Sgt. Fields will be eligible
for retirement. At the present
time he is undecided as to whether
he will remain in the army or
change over to civilian life. M-Sgt.
Fields is married and is residing
in Cornelius with his wife and two
children.

Graduate Schools
Ask Early Application

Every year many students in-
tending to enroll in graduate
schools send for information and
instructions too late.

Students should send for infor-
mation and instructions concern-
ing the procedure of application
early in their senior year, prefer-
ably in October or ‘November.
They should not hesitate to ask
for information even though they
may not be certain about their
plans for graduate study. Many
applicants are excluded from con-
sideration because they start their
applications after the places avail-
able in a department have been
filled.

Students intending to apply for
scholarships or fellowships should
obtain forms arid instructions at
the earliest possible date.

Most graduate schools requires
all applicants to submit reports of
scores in the Graduate Record Ex-
amination. Students must obtain
instructions and make _ arrange-
ments for that examination in
time. Scholarship applicants must
| take the Graduate Record Exami-

Drink
‘M
oO
O
R’

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

Union To Present

Sunday Opera Series

The Music and Television Com-
mittee of the David Ovens College
Union is sponsoring ‘a program of
complete operas to be played in
the union ballroom on Sunday af-
ternoons, Verdi's La Traviate will
be the selection for Sunday, Oc-
tober 10.

All interested members of the
faculfy and student body are cor-
dially invited to be present for
these operatic programs. Cokes
will be served.

Other operas to be presented in
the near future are Aids, La Bo-
heme, and Carmen. All programs
will begin at 2 p. m. and will con-
tinue ag long as necessary. No
opera will last longer than three
hours.

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of fine Foods for any taste
in Eating — Specializing in Steak,
Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

t Meeresville, N. C. Phene 3-286)

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

818 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

LIBRARY ADDS MANY NEW BOOKS
SKETCH {Meets To Try Frosh; |ALONG WITH AIR CONDITIONERS

The library has many new books
this fall, in keeping with the new
shelves and air - conditioning.
Among these are some of the top
best-sellers and a wide variety of
non-fiction.

The new novels include:

Mary Anne by Daphne du Maur-

fer—the story of a lively mistress
of intrigues in the reign of Gorge
U1. ,
The Fall of a Titan by Igor Gouz-
enko—the novel of. a Bolshevik
leader who tried to quit the suc-
ceeding party under Stalin.

The Royal Box by Frances Park-
inson Keyes—another of her mys-
teries involving murder and the
aristocracy.

Sweet Thursday by John Stein-
beck—a gaily inconsequential yarn
about his Cannery Row charac-
ters:

Away All Boats by Kenneth Dod-
sén—one of the best novels so far
about World War I.

Pictures from an institution by
Randall Jarrell of Woman's Col-
lege—the perceptive but humor.

University Christian . .
(Continued From Page One)

United States, Mexico, and Can-
ada, and in 1947, he was a dele-
gate to the World Conference of
Christian Youth held at Oslo, Nor-
way.

Mr. Hunt is pastor of the Trinity
Methodist Church in Albany, New
York. A member of the Alumni
Council of the Yale Divinity
School, he has contributed to sev-
eral religious periodicals, and has
conducted devotional broadcasts
over major radio networks.

Dr. Beach is Professor of Christ-
ian Ethics at the Duke University
Divinity School and the Duke
Graduate School of Arts and Scei-
ences. He has written articles for
Social Action, Gthies, The inter-
collegien, and is a member of the
National Council on Religion in
Righer Education.

Colonel Miller has long been a
figure oh the political scene in
Virginia, having run for the United
States Senate and the governor.
ship of the Old Dominion. A prom-
inent layman in the Presbyterian
Church for many years, he is a
member of the Central Committee
of the World Council of Churches.

Anti-Theft Tips: At night park
your car near a stréetlight if pos-
sible. Auto thieves hesitate to work
in lighted areas.

A gentleman of the highway al-
ways tips his lights.

nation not later than the national
testing scheduled in January. The
earlier testing in November is of-
ten more convenient.

“Coby” is @ registered wade-merb.

SOTMED WER AUTMONTTY OF THE COCA-CO”A COMPANY bY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Four For Rioting

The Student Council met Wed-
nesday to investigate Monday
night's dormitory disturbances.
The investigation resulted in the
reprimand of four participants and
the acquital of a fifth student.

The Council ‘does not discourage
student demonstrations, but feels
that the throwing of water, par-
ticularly hot water, the breaking
of bottles, and the shooting of
firecrackers are practices which
easily lead to injury and the dam-
age of property, and which there-
fore cannot be condoned.

ee

To Elect Members Program In Germany

Davidson College’s Chapter of
Alpha Epsilon Delta, national pre-| OPPortunities to teach English
medical honor fraternity, will hold in the secondary schools of the

its first meeting of the school year| Federal Republic of Germany are

in the Martin Science Build open to American graduate stu-
November 3, “1966 ot 7:30 pane on dents or teachers under the Edu-

cational Exchange Program con-
e di the Untreratt of ate ducted by the Department of State,
on April 28, 1926. The organiza: it was announced tcday by Mr.
tion has more than ten thousand | Kenneth Holland, President of the
Institute of International Educa-

members in 61 active chapters at
schools throughout the United Cie 1 East 67th Street, New York

States. i
The objectives of the fraternity proghaen varaericnn students wih
are to encourage excellence in pre-| one as assistants to teachers of
medical scholarship and to stimu- English and will be assigned to
fate an appreciation of the amport: institutions in German cities. Suc-
P cavlon. | cessful candidates will have an op-

Karkkai
kkainen... AED also endeavors to promote co- portunity to gain teaching experi-
peration between medical and ence and at the same time to

(Continued From Page One)
pre-medical students and educa- undertake courses of study or re-

several weeks of work to catch up, | tors, and to bind together students ;
This fact didn’t faze the ambitious {of similar interests. Searels German universities.
Finn in the least, however, as he| Requirement for membership in a Awards re rf ine dee “te
insisted on taking a full load of] AED is completion of at least | Or nue en's. pesuoane cate for
courses. His curriculum includes | three semesters of pre-medical col- apr a on ji “vem va ‘th st
history, psychology, sociology, po-{lege work with a minimum scho- istan hip os ree a a hited
litical science, English, and one} lastie average of B. States citizenshi . @. wr °; hal rs
hour of swimming every day. Charlie Freed is president of the degree, or its cauivaient oy ‘the
My roommate fas many hobbies,| Davidson chapter. Other officers time the award is taken up; (3
a few of which are “ham” radio|for this year are Bob Jones, vice- Working knowledge of the ‘Ger.
operating (his call letters are| president; B. C. Brown, Secretary; | man language; and (4. Good health
OH2MT), scouting, drawing, and] and Zack Kilpatrick, Treasurer. Assistants selected ‘for this proj.
skiing. Peter likes to dance also,| President Freed stated that a ect usually will not teach regular
but he woutdn’t include it as a} meeting of the officers on October classes, but will conduct conversa-
hobby. “That's something else,” he | 5 was for the purpose of initiating tional ‘exercises and sponsor Eng-
smiled slyly. new members into the fraternity. | jich clubs and workshops on Amer-
When asked his opinion of| An open program for the public] ican history and literature.
American sports, especially foot-] has been planned tentatively for] The U. S. Educational Commis-
ball, he was a little hesitant. The! November 10, 1954 in the Science sion in the Federal Republic of
only game he has seen thus far| Building. A film dealing with the|Germany would prefer for these
was played between two local col-] medical profession will be shown, | posts young Americans with some
ored teams a few evenings ago.|and a brief discussion period will] teaching experience and a Mas-
Judging from that game, Peter had| follow the movie. Definite time ter’s degree. Candidates with prep-
only the following comment: | and place will be announced later. aration in the fields of English or
“There are too many intervals;|Dr. E. E. Brown is faculty adviser history are desired. Applicants
otherwise it’s fine. I'd like to play|of the Davidson chapter. should have broad experience in

it.” Peter is looking forward to extracurricular as well as academic

secing many, athletic contests while activities and should be well-
Blood Drive Starts

Thursday, Oct. 14

he is at Davidson, since reports of informed about American history
all types have always interested institutions, and educational prac.
him. tices.

By the way, Mr. Karkkainen is Successful candidates for the
catching on to American slang assistantship positions will be
faster than I ever anticipated. Por] Thursday and Friday, October | awarded Fulbright grants, payable
instance, whenever I slecp too late|14 and 15, 1954, the Red Cross | in German deutschemarks, which

Bloodmobile will be at Davidson

for the semi-annual student-town
donor campaign. Blood letting will
take place in the basement of
Johnston Gymnasium.

ous portrayal of faculty and stu-
dents at a small girls’ college.

The Year the Yankees Lost the
Pennant by Douglass Wallop— the
story of a man who bartered his
soul to the devil to be allowed to
lead the Senators to victory over
the Yankees.

In non-fiction, there are:

The Roosevelt Family of Sage-
more Hill by Hermann Hagedorn
—an informal biography of Theo-
dore Roosevelt at his summer
home.

The Ramayana as told by Aubrey
Menen—a delightful modern prose
version of the great Hindu epic.

But We Were Born Free by
Elmer Davis—a plea for con-
tinued freedom of the mind and
for minds that are wiser once they
are freed.

Eurape, a Journey with Pictures
by Mrs. Anne Freemantle and
Bryan Holme—a travel descrip-
tion, concentrating on illustrations
of the important places throughout
Europe.

Freshman Council .. .
(Continued From Page One)

Jones, chairman, sub-committee on
publicity, members, David Brad-
ford, Bob Sloan, Peter Sterling,
Lloyd Chapin; sub-committee on
invitations, Bill Pomeroy, chair-
man, members, Roger Bates, Andy
Hamilton, John Trask, Dan Woods;
entertainment, Mike Martin, chair-
man, members, Richard Cumming,
Phil Diuguid, Henry Griffin, Hay-
den Hollingsworth; program, Rhett
Sanders, chairman, members, Bill
Fraley, Bill Long, Charles Nan-
ney, and Harry Paschall.

IFC SIGNS...

(Continued From Page One)

ments with the “fresh approach”
and will continue to feature the
Slurping Saxes. Attractive song-
stress April Ames will present the
vocal part of the program. She is
& native Californian and was re-
cently on an eight-month tour with
Harry James.

EDUCATION BOARD
OFFERS GRANTS

The Board of Christian Educa
tion of the Presbyterian Church in
the United States is offering six
scholarships for graduate study to
prospective college teachers.

The amount of the monetary
award wil not exceed $750.00 for

any one applicant. The applicant
should be primarily concerned
with the development of a sound
and fruitful program of study.

in the morning I become a "sack cover travel, tuition, maintenance,
rat,” and if I don’t have a date on books, and incidentals for a full
the week end, I am automatically academic year.

“a square.” Yes sir, Peter is catch- Graduate students who are now
ing on fast. enrolled in academic institutions

It’s the FILTER that Counts
and LaM has the Best!
is sweeping the country... a

L&M smoke. And you enjoy all this in king size
smash success, overnight! No or regular, both at the same low price.
cigarette ever went so far so fast, because

Our statement of quality unchal-
no filter compares with LeM’s exclusive shen

miracle tip for quality or effectiveness. and best filter tip cigarette.
From LaM you get much more flavor, Buy LaMs—king size or regular—they’re
much less nicotine...a light and mild just what the doctor ordered.

* pie Map.

Orvsa, me coca-coa COMPANY

lenged. LaM is America’s highest quality |

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1954

Council Reprimands|AED Holds Meeting |Education Institule Reveals Assistantship

To Davidson Seniors

should apply to the Fulbright Pro-
gram Adviser on campus. Other
candidates should apply to the In-
stitute of ‘International Education,
1 East 67th Street, New York City.

Final selection of Fulbright
grantees is made by the Board of
Foreign Scholarships appointed by
the President of the United States.
The Institute of International Edu-
cation, central private agency in
the U. S. administering programs
for the exchange of students,
teachers, and specialists, is the
agency designated by the Board
of Foreign Scholarships and the
Department of State to screen ap-
plications.

The program of German assist-
antships is separate from the in-
terchange of German and Amer-
lean teachers under the State De-
partment’s Educational Exchange
Program. Persons wishing to ap-
ply for teaching grants should
write to the U. S. Office of Edu-
cation, Department of Health,
Education and Welfare, Washing-
ton 25, D. C.

Phi Sociefly Holds its
First Meet Monday

The Philanthropic Literary So-
ciety held its first meeting of the
year. last Monday evening with
Stein Wilson presiding. Following
the roll call by Secretary Reece
Middleton, Dick Morehead out-
lined the coming year’s program
and opened the floor for discus-
sion of these plans by the mem-
bers of the Society.

After motions by Swain Loy,
‘Dunbar Ogden, and Mae William-
son had been acted upon, More-
head introduced the ‘program of
the evening which included read-
ings by Jim Kuist and Mac Wil-
liamson.

Ogden and Williamson gave the
Critics’ reports, followed by re-
ports of the Supervisors, Jim
Brice and Bob Beall. President
Wilson then adjourned the meet-
ing.

a

