THE DAVIDSONIAN

PRIDAY, MAY 14, 1964

PAGE TWO

Sporte Raltor _____ Jim Holshouser
feature Editor ___.___. Dick Morehead
News Rditors — John Hiers, Watt McCain

———---.------ John Harmon

Editor
Editor —___._______._.. Ed Price

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Y BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MANAGER TIM COOPER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS loyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Asst. Joe B » Photo her Hank Daniel
seccing von Grad, Swain bay Aatenments —_—_——_—_——, Jim Bice
—_— oe Gaskin,

Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Entered ec second class metter at the Post Office at Davidsen, N.C. under the Act of
Merch 3, 1897

Assistant Business Manager__Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager —.___. Larry Parrott
Collections Manager _.______.. John Smith
Circulation Manager —. Bob Carmichael

An Open Letter To The Board of Trustees

Reverend J. McDowell Richards
President, Trustees of Davidson College
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

May 11, 1954

I am writing on behalf of the Student Body to commend the Trustees for
their action in guaranteeing $35,000 in athletic grants for the coming year.

Several weeks ago in a campaign speech I promised, if elected, to do this.
I have discussed this problem with a number of students and feel it is one with which

they are concerned.

I believe the student body is in favor of an athletic policy which will enable
Davidson to compete on an equal basis with the schools of the Southern Conference

and with its natural rivals.

I think the student body feels that in this guarantee the Trustees have taken
a realistic step toward bettering Davidson athletic policy. During the past year David-
son has made a good showing in the new Southern Conference and I feel certain, that

next year will be even better.

A winning football team in the future will do much to improve the present
low morale of the student body. With the interest and support exhibited by the
Trustees I feel sure that we can have an athletic policy which will allow Davidson
again to hold its head up in athletic circles.

By continuing to give scholarships to the type athlete that Davidson tradition-
ally caters to, Davidson can never go wrong.

Sincerely
FLOYD FEENEY
President of the Student Body.

Yo Ho Ho, We Hate We;

But Little Brown Jug

Once upon a time there was a little boy—
little in the sense of maturity. He had his own
way generally as he “grew up.” When he grad-
vated from high school, it was only natural that
he be sent to the nearby college—because it
was such a fine college.

This was a Christian college, a college de-
voted to the matter of practicing the teachings
of Christ while “educating” its students. The
little boy’s parents sent him there because its
degree would be such a good recommendation
for his later business life. If times should be
hard, ic. if his father should die and the boy
have to work for himself and not move into an
assistant vice-presidency, he would have that
Devastating College diploma.

So the little boy went to the college. It was
apparent when he got there that this was the
place for him. He got into the big fraternity
easily, found out how to go about getting this
“education” most easily. His college life was
largely that of the “maturing of a young gentle-

3 occasionally, however, to use a trite ex-
pression, it did seem that his studies were in-
terfering with his education.

He graduated. Of course his dad had ar-
ranged for his excuse from armed services duty.
Me had had a wonderful time at Devastating, he

How We Love Thee

often remembered later those times he had so
cleverly cheated on the math reviews, the nights
his brothers (all dedicated to fine ideals) had
carried him to his room, and on and on. But
then, we all have to have some fun sometimes.

Yes sir. He was really proud of that Davastat-
ing diploma in his office. He had really gotten a
lot when he was there. Of course it had been
hard work; but his parents were more than
satisfied when he made grades good enough to
be Phi Bete, even if he had cheated; and natural-
ly he got ODK, sinee he was elected president
of his literary society for his remarkable ability
to write such keen, satirical attacks on the
pre-min’s. Some of those Phi Betes and ODKs
had really worked, too, the fools. And now he
was just as good as they were!

His son would have to go there. No other
place. Hard, yes; but mighty rewarding. Really
turn you out a Christian gentleman; all you
had to do was soak up four years of that atmos-
phere.

You don’t want to get too serious about
things there, though. You don’t want to study
too much, or think about very deep things.
Have to watch that.

And the little man was happy.

—W. F. S.

The Collegiate Ideal?

The quaint thing about Davidson during the
1088-84 school year seems to have been that
no one likes anything or anybody here. To
grumble has been to gain the approval of co-
horts in the Idcal school of cynics and sour
stomachs. Everyone has ranted that the status
quo, whatever that is, be immediately smashed,
and that the whole Davidson way of life be
turned inside out in order that persecuted stu-
dents might once again gain their rightful
power on the local scene.

Why change the status quo? That is, what is
the use of changing for the sake of change; of
blowing a mighty blast of air in no particular
direction. To alter one’s course with no goal in
mind seems not only a waste of time but of
human energy.

Where then is the goal of the student here?’
‘What is the mark by which he sets his daily
eourse of thought and action? Is he interested
in college for the knowledge he hopes to gain
there; that is, has he come for the scholastic
opportunities offered, and for the human rela-
tions he will thrive on, or has he come for one
of many reasons of which he is so often accused:
because his parents did, beeause it is necessary
for business opportunity, because it is “the thing
to do” in his social class. Why?

By thelr frults ye shall know them, it is
recorded in a widely read publication here.
Can it be that the unprecedented chaos of
idealess moving on the part of the student body
is the fruit of disinterested men who are here
but to complete one link in the mighty chain

-whieh makes up a mechanical life. Those who
are here to follow a pattern of economie life,
or to maintain their hometown position with the
least possible effort and the greatest possible

a

pleasure might well prove to be the clogging
glue which puts the stipend of “glorious medi-
ocrity” on the College.

To them college is a necessary and un-
pleasant evil, and to stretch the mind is an ab-
surdity when the TV machine is showing the
curvy dame or the D. A. Life can very pleasant-
ly be a chain of nickels and neckings with little
effort, and many seem to be out to make the
best of this with their parent’s money and
their own time.

There was a day when the stadent entered
college with the prospect of getting a degree
and using it the rest of his life. Perhaps that
day is still with us, concealed beneath an ever
thickening veneer of fraternity life, formal
dances and football games.

I€ it is, it must be that the student body
members are capable of goals located some-
where beyond their noses. The thing to do when
they realize this is to look at those goals, and
to shape their course of action accordingly. If
they have no love for Davidson nor any goal
for themselves except a diploma why do they
clamor for co! revisions and football
subsidy? Any action to be worthwhile must have
& purpose, and it is a good time for the student
to realize that one purpose of college life is
to teach thought and understanding, not con-
formity with a groundless fluxuation, whether
that fluxuation be against the school or for
football subsidy.

Why do we fail to stop and think why we act
as we do, believe as we believe. Perhaps it is
because we are afraid to. Perhaps it is because
we have indeed lost the horizon of life's mean-
ing in a blur of Cadillacs and piggy banks.

—N. L. C.

OFF-MOORINGS :

Unfultilled Goals Set Forth
In Parting “Swan Song’

By JIM MOORE

The end of the school year is
a time of summing up, a time for
sour grapes or fermented ones,
and a time for counting noses and
licking wounds. The columnist also
comes to the end of his journalistic
row.

After a year of being the cam-
pus iconoclast, it will be a pleasure
this summer to slip quietly into
the role of shavetail, sea-roving
naval officer. There at least you
don’t have to step on every high-
ly glossed toe that comes along.
Matter of fact, you better not.

The goals which this column has
pursued might have seemed to
have been those of a spur of the
moment compulsion to gripe, to
blast off at anything and every-
body. The writings might have
appeared to come from a personal
cynicism that was nurtured in an
entirely negative approdch to life
and Davidson.

I hope that the motivations have
been actually as honorable and as
good in the long run as a genuine-
ly loyal student could compose.
There ought to be room for a loyal-
ly dissident voice at Davidson.
Oftentimes the .means used to
arouse readers to thought and
action have been strong medicine
and even a bitter pill to swallow
for some.

Your writer will be quick to
point out that in many cases before
he wrote he first concluded that
the end justified the means em-
ployed. The point has been to
arouse students and other readers
from their general apathy and to
ire them so that they voice an
opinion of at least some kind or
other, preferable one free from
bias and to the point.

This isn’t to say that the means
were less than honorable ones. It
means that I have used every
journalistic means at my disposal
to get my point across.

At one time this column at-
tempted to set forth its aims. This
proved a mistake; for when in the
course of time, the aims were not
fulfilled, then it might have ap-
peared that the writer had failed.

The aims are still valid ones
and they are still open to anyone
garolous and tenacious enough to
pursue them. It just happened that
more pertinent topics arose with
time.

The Market Place

One who rtands in the market
place of idcas and throws bricks
must be reasonably prepared to get
a few in return.

Dorothy Parker, that scathingly
witty critic for the New York
Times in the roaring twenties and
the deflated thirties wrote in 1037,
“I heard someone say, and so I

said it, too, that ridicule is the
most effective weapon .. . Well
now I know . . . ridicule may be
a shield, but it is not a weapon.”

Neither as old, as wise, as bril-
liant, nor as as Miss
Parker, this writer has some of
the same feelings at the end of a
year of ridicule, attack, and ideal-
ism as that literary lady found
after twenty-odd years of writing.

So you are going to conclude im-
mediately that I] have gone soft at
the last. Don’t be misted by last-
minute explanations of lesting con-
clusions.

The Davidson scene is ripe for
critical analysis and constructive
criticism. The sarees for the most
incisive discussion heve only been
touched on, and there is tre-
mendous room for more extensive
study.

The first most important point
for a student journalist to take
into account is for him to decide
that he himself, and his writing,
can withstand the critical light
when it is thrust on his own work
and oftentimes into his own life.

It is almost necessary to admit
that I have not always been right
or to say that everything in this
column has been mature and as
well thought out as it might have
been.

Nonetheless it would be an un-
derstatement of major proportions
to say that I have not tried always
to present a courageous, an honest
point of view that cared not on
whose toes it happened to tread.

Geals

For those who want to continue

the tradition of examining issues,
customs, and morals at Davidson
which need the light of public ap-
praisal, I give these suggested
topics.
_ (1) Investigation into the drink.
ing rules and the drinking situa-
tion itself. An honorary fraternity
council poll two years ago showed |
that over fifty per cent of the stu-
dents at Davidson drink occasion-
ally. Are we pursuing our goals
under false pretense?

(2) A reexamination of David-
son’s educational goals in the light
of her current and continuing
needs. It is significant that the
courses offered and the scholastic
requirements have not been altered
materially in over twenty years.

(3) A long look into better stu--
dent - faculty, student - administra-
tion, student-trustee relations. It
seemed a shock on the Senior-
Faculty Day to find out what a
good bunch of fellows the faculty
actually has in it.

(4) A continustion of interest
in Dsvidson’s athletic situation.

(Continved On Page Four)

THROUGH THESE T

ND, WITH YOUR HELP, WELL SAIL

URBULENT SEAS TOGETHER TO THE

PEACEFUL WATERS BEYOND, AND... ETC.”

Fifth Amendment Seen As Answer To
Appalling Student Council Impotence

The proposed amendments to the
Student Constitution have ‘but one
purpose, a more effective student
government. To this end two fac-
tors alone can contribute: realistic
and workable rules, penalties, and
procedural machinery; and en-
thusiastic student support. And
these two are interdependent and
inseparable, as a moment’s thought
will indicate.

Let me insist that an underly-
ing unity be recognized in the
amendments, and suggest that a
useful perspective for the careful
analysis they require may be
gained by focusing our attention
upon the most “controversial” of
them all—the Testimony Amend.
ment.

The other five, we might say,
are “oil for the works” of stu-
dent government machinery with-
out which it lumbers and wheezes
along, but testimony is the vital
current without which it does not
move at all. It is the sine que non
of responsible student control of
student affairs upon which the
others stand or fall. We have seen
all too clearly that our form of
student government cannot work
without the cooperation of those

Y. M. C. A. MEMBERSHIP
IS NOT “COMPULSORY”

The following Is the first of whet
ts hoped will be a continuing series
of articles from members of the
Davideon faculty and edministre-
tion. These articles ere to be
lergely explanatory and expesitery
in nature, clarifying issues of
widespread interest here. Gn-
trances for this column ere net
solicited, since it Is felt that the
writing should be personel end
mere or less sponteneous, but ail
writings will be welcomed. — Ed.

Sy DR. JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM
President of Davidson College

I would like to take this oppor-
tunity to clarify the widely-used
but erroneous term “compulsory
YMCA membership” which has
been referred to a number of times
this spring in connection with stu-
dent body elections.

May I say, first of all, that the
correct term is “automatic” mem-
bership rather than “compulsory,”
and that the two terms are not
synonymous. A student who enrolls
at Davidson College automatically
becomes eligible for membership
in the YMCA. That is, he is auto-
matically eligible to exercise the
basic privilege of membership,
that of voting in YMCA elections
and of holding office, if elected.
He is also eligible to participate in
the service program of the YMCA.

There (Is, however, no compul-
sion of any kind. Any student may
refuse to eccept a YMCA member-
ship card and to participate in
YMCA elections and program If he
so desires. No pressure is exerted
by anyone fo force him te vote

It may be answered that because

a part of the Student Activities Fee
goes to the YMCA, the student is
therefore “forced” to beeome a
member. It would be just as logical
to say that beeause a part of the
Student Activities Fee goes to the
support of the Forensic Council, a
student is forced to become a mem-
ber of the Debating Team.

I believe that an understanding
of the development of the Student
Activities Fee will reveal that it
has nothing to do with YMCA
membership.

Prior to 1916, when there was
no Student Activities Fee, every
organization on the campus which
needed funds to carry ont its pro-
gram regularly made the rounds
of dormitory rooms to solicit con-
tributions or subscriptions. Special
“offenders” in this respect were
The Davidsonian, the magazine, the
annual, and the YMCA. .

In 10916, with The Davidsenian
backing the proposal, the student
body unanimously requested the
Faculty and Trustees to institute
a “blanket fee” which would be
collected from every student along
with his regular college fees and
allocated to the various organiza-
tions on the campus which needed
financial support. The Faculty and
Trustees approved this request,
and the “blanket fee” was initiated.

The Davidsonien commented,
“Nothing will make more dem-
ocratic or will more revolutionize
the petty financial affairs at David.
son than the operation of this new

It was not until 1919, three years
later, that the YMCA Cabinet,
under the leadership of Secretary
Robert Miles, enthusiastically

adopted a new membership plan
for the YMCA. Supplanting the old
method under which only those
who took the initiative in “joining”
the organization were considered
members, the new plan extended
to all students the privileges of
belonging te the YMCA and voting
in its elections. As The David-
senien reported after the Cabinet
meeting at which this plan was
adopted, “There was not a person
there that night who did not leave
with a vision of a better and more
energetic YMCA for Davidson Col-
lege.” This system, inaugurated by
the students themselves, is the one
under which the YMCA has
operated ever since. Only two years
ago, when it was called into ques-
tion, the student body voted not to
change it.

Fermal Auditing Committee

In closing, let me go back for
a moment to the Student Activities
Fee. There is one feature of the
original plan which lapsed well
before I became associated with
Davidson. When the Fee was first
established in 1916, a formal audit-
ing committee composed of
Faculty and students took charge
of the allocation of these funds.
Since that time, students have par-
ticipated, on an informal basis, in
such reallocations as took place a
year or so ago when the amounts
given to The Davidsonien and to
Scripts and Pranks’ were read-
justed.

1 personally fever student perti-
elpation of this kind, and would
prefer a return fo a formal basis
which would guarentee it in the
future. ,

By ED STUART

upon whom it calls for help.
The Fifth Amendment

The passage, of Amendment Five
will be an emphatic assertion of
our conviction that student govern-
ment is to be, as far as possible,
a “government of laws, not of
men,” an institution not to be
stymied by the duty dilemmas of
unfortunate students, the con-
fusion of a particular student
council, or the misbegotten good
intent of a faculty committee.

Our failure to pass it will be our
tacit affirmation that student gov-
ernment should be a game in which
we dare the leaders to catch us if
they can. But surely a game in
which the losers may be subjected
to arbitrary judges who do not
understand their problem, in which
faculty-student relations may be
irreparably torn, and in which
student government itself may very
well be wrecked is a game that
can only have fascination for the
morbid or the immature.

Let us weigh this issue care-
fully. What are the rational ob-
jections to testimony if we have
the best interests of student gov-
ernment at heart? The “Fifth
Amendment” argument has neither
force nor application here, as has
been pointed out elsewhere. Nor
can testimony in answer to rele-
vant and specific questions con-
cerning others suspected to be
involved in rule infractions about
which we are believed to have
knowledge be construed as “squeal-
ing” or “ratting” on our room-
mates.

Indeed the passage of the amend-
ment can be a healthy step toward
a student government so just, so
effective, so respective, that a com-
plete loyalty to its merit and its
letter will embody automatically
the greatest kind of loyalty to
those who are our friends, our room-
mates, our fraternity brothers.

Judicial Procedure

If we do not trust the wisdom
and discretion of our self-elected
judges and fear misuse of the
power which this amendment
would confer upon them, we may
insist that a specific pattern of
questioning be worked out in order
to avoid the dangers of arbitrary
interrogation. But these are details,
albeit important ones, for our
judges in consultation with us to
decide upon.

The point here is that the emend>
ment must be pessed if we ase te
have competent judicial bedies.

Without the amendment we may
be faced with new noctural ses-
sions of an Executive Committee
whose every move seems destined
to be interpreted as inspired of
the Devil himself, however absurd
this is. Without it we may, as some
of our recently elected represents-
tives have suggested, be faced with
arbitrary edicts from an impotent
student government suddenly con-
fronted with a problem for which
it has no precedent and no ma-
chinery.

If there are other objections, let
them be heard. The results of re-
quired testimony may at times seem
harsh, but justice is often un-
pleasant. Speaking personally, |
prefer the sharp, clean, knife of
justice to the cruel cat-o’-nine-tails
of bungling and indecision. The
amendment is strong, yes, but only
with it can student government be
strong.

In short, our voting on the Testi-
mony Amendment, standing as it
does, not only as the crux of the
proposed amendments, but at the
heart of student government itself,
is basically a decision between
childishness and maturity. It can
be a declaration of attitude more
farreaching than Amendment Four,
and more of an assertion of respon:

(Continued On Pege Four)

Dabney, Trotti Blast Graggism’s
New Spirit Of Humble Optimism

Dear Mr. Gragg:

Tt has been said that you, in
your latest venture, used “clever
satire and appealing description,”
and had “something worthwhile
to say.” These observations were
made by the editor at the time
the article appeared; it is his right
to express his attitude toward
Graggism, as it is his responsibility
for allowing your outpourings to
be printed.

Eagerly scanning the article for
satire (clever or otherwise), we at
last found that, amid other at-
tempts, you had called chapel “the
mid-morning siesta.” This was very
clever and witty.

We appreciate your sincerity,
and it must be admitted, in all
fairness, that you have considera-
ble descriptive skill. Whether or
not one finds It “appealing” would
depend (as you have repeatedly
said), on one’s attitude,

Some people like Liberace. Some
like Norman Vincent Peale. Some
find twaddle pleasing to their state
of mind. Some admire Graggism.

You may very well have ome

as a bludgeon with which to en-
force a personal predilection.

Christ said that people should
come to Him as a little child, but
anyone who approaches Davidson
self-righteousness as a little child
is not optimistic, only complacent;
not an idealist, only a fool.

We close with a quotation from.
George Bernard Shaw:

“The reasonable man adapts him-
self to the world; the unreasona-
ble one persists in trying to adspt
the world to himself. Therefore all
progress depends on the unreason-
able man.”

DICK DABNEY
HUGH TROTTI
