Sport Shorts

— BY —

AT LAST

LEON HOWELL
Rain alternately pattered and pounded, the Citadel Bull-
dogs hustled and hounded, and the spectators roared and
resounded. In between the gridiron gladiators scrapped to a
hardearned six to two victory. Throughout the game, any of
the upperclassmen could feel a tension, a will to win that has
very rarely been exhibited in the past. Despite the adverse
circumstances, thrills were plentiful, particularly for those
who enjoy the type defensive brilliance displayed by the
’Cats.
As the fans, both students and visitors, filed from the

drenched stands, they were soaked, shaken, but satisfied to ||

have come out in front. As different groups gathered around
coffee in the union, supper at the “Spoon,” or an evening
with a date, the topic of particular interest for those who delve
into the game deeper than the score was the versatility wit-

nessed that afternoon.
Contrary to the game of two weeks earlier, Davidson had

to remain on the defensive for the majority of the affair. The |!

playing conditions had incapacitated the aerial attack, so that
the brunt of the load was tossed upon the defense. Time and
again these stalwarts courageously halted the bellicose Bull-
dogs as they appeared goal bound. This should prove decisive
in future tougher games.

Backfield depth is proving very comforting. With Dyke
Little at the throttle for Dick Belton, who was injured on the
second play from scrimmage, there was little noticeable differ-
ence in the offensive. If you may consider four of our backs
first string and the next four as a second quartet, there is
again only a very small gap. Conger is dependable, almost bril-
liant at time and will be hard to keep on the bench. McRee
slashed as of old last Saturday and Rowland, injury and all,
got the winning TD.

Our ends, perhaps the most outstanding single element
on the squad, (Newton, Gramley, Patterson, and Wall), reverted
from Catawba’s spectacular offensive display to defend with
equal skill as the occasion demanded.

. With the progressing weeks, the schedule becomes tough-
er, pointing toward the giant we must face, namely Richmond.
It has become apparent to all that the Cats have the ability to
continue to roll and so far have shown a lot of desire. Our sup-
port is needed and it seems to a good many of the students
that that is the least we can do!

Jinxes are, I suppose, like laws, made to be broken. Tues-
day, to the delight of many, to the dismay of others, the Brook-
lyn Dodgers broke one of the most amazing of all time, their
inability to beat the Yankees in the World Series.

As exciting as the games were, no one could overcome
the temptation to wonder just what the story would have been
had Mantle, Bauer, and Skowrun for the American League
champs and Newcombe, Snider, and Robinson of Brooklyn
been in top shape for the whole fray.

Lefthanders played a tremendously big part in the series.
In my opinion two were most significant. Snider, Berra, etc.,
are expected to shine. The real story seems to lie in the
courageous clutch chunking of Podres, who set the Yanks
down twice and the failure of Irv Noren (hit into five double
plays) to produce.

Two ball clubs, neither rated among the all time great
clubs, but who possess a good measure of the intangibles met
end one prevailed. Seven games of baseball and they will form
the basis of discussion and argument for bull sessions until
next March. Brooklyn, only the second team to win the crown
after losing the first two games, acquired a lustre in defeat-
ing the “Old Pros” that even the memory of the Gillette adver-
tisements will have trouble diming.

Ready for the Dances .. ?

Have Your Tuxedo and Accessories!

SEE OUR

“After Six’
~ vy League Tuxedo

It’s the most Comfortable
you have ever tried on.

RENTALS ALSO

Wilson-Wright's Inc.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

BROOKLYN VICTORIOUS

The Pavidsonian

ALENDA LUK OBI AGRTA LIBERTAS

P. C. HERE
ON SATURDAY

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1955

é

WATER,

BY JOHNNY JOHNSON

Davidson's line, showing the de-
termination, stubborness, and bruis-
ing power that makes champions,
deserves the glory_for the Cat's 5-2
victory over the Citadel. The line,
traditional gloriless workhorses of
any game, has vaulted Davidson
into the number one defensive team
in the Southern Conference by
holding their opponents to an av-
erage of only 125 yards per game.

In last Saturday's battle with the
Bulldogs, when the rain made the
offensive running slippery and
passing difficult, it was the Wild-
cat's hard-fighting line that was
the deciding factor. The body-
crushing tackles consistently shook
the Citadel runners loose from the
slick ball; and the alert Cat defen-
sive fell on seven of these loose
balls. Davidson's one touchdown

WATER EVERYWHERE!

Line Wildcat of Week

was set up by just such a play
when guard Harold Davis broke
into the opponent's backfield and
pounced on a fumble on the Cita-
del’s 19 yard line. Although the
Bulldogs managed to start several
drives, the Cats’ forward wall was
a major factor in. holding for
downs or, more frequently, answer-
ing the fans’ plea to “take it away;
hey, hey!”

Offensively the line showed
spark, too, as they opened holes
for the backs and provided the
passer with time to pick a receiver.

No single man was a stand out,
but those of particular note were:
ends Bill Gramley, Tom Newton,
and Jim Patterson; tackles Tom
Lee, Lyle Llewellyn and David
Fagg: guards Harold Davis, Tom

The Defense Dynamic

BY JEFF SMITH
The Wildeats were a bit lucky | 25, recovered by Harold Davis; and
last Saturday in their 62 win ov- la 15 yard penalty against the Cita
er a fast moving Citadel eleven.| del two plays later. This put the
Costly fumbles by the military] ball on the one yard line, from
men set up the lone D.C. score| which point Rowland bulled over

del threats. The temper of Al An-| conversion attempt was low
drejko was another element in the! The Citadel again threatened in
Davidsonian’s favor, his unsports-|the second quarter as they drove
manlike conduct gave fifteen yards} to the Wildeat 7 yard line,
down to the Citadel one in the only | the same fullback through the mid
dangerous drive of the first half.| dle play time after time
ra a clipping penalty nulli- | fourth and one to go, Dzanis again
fied the only Citadel score. drove up the center, but he was
In the first quarter the Charles-| Stopped by Lee and Davis who by
ton soldiers quickly slipped through | this time were beginning to catch
the line for three significant drives | 0" to the Citadel blocking pattern
— reed he pi ony soot tase several exchanges the half
stopped by their own fumbles, For | enced.
most of the first quarter the tackle; In the second half the fast mov-
to tackle plunges of Andrejko,| ing Citadel backfield continued to
reves age’ oe arog Lee, | dominate the play for a_ while.
ewellyn, Owen, and Davis to run| Siano, Woodworth, and Lesher,
into double-teams, fakers, and each} were running very well from. the
other. On two occasions Budgie} hand-offs of Miller and Schwarze.
Broome raced away for long Sams, | Ove drive alone at the end of the
pa no be — Ps pond opening | second quarter, yielded three first
ickoff and later a 65 yard punt re-| downs. Fortunately Dole was able
turn down the side line which end-| to put the first string line back in-
ed in paydirt. Fortunately for the | to the game. A lot of credit should
Cats Bobby Miller was caught clip- be given to Owen, Lee, and Liewel-
ping on the play. This may have | lyn, and Price, who blockaded the
saved the day for the Dolemen. | onslaught of the Citadel backfield.
In Davidson's first two offensive | It seemed to settle which was the
attempts they were foreed to quick | stronger line, an important point in
kick, which West did most effec. | the outcome.
tively. The third drive reached the| The rest of the game consisted
Citadel 14 yard line, but finally | of each team taking turns driving
died on-downs. Everyone substitut-| back and fourth across midfield.
ed and changed fields for the| Davidson threatened again, but
second quarter. A score was set up Ts

Owen and Bill Abernathy; and cen-
ter Bill Price.

| by Andrejko's fumble on his own

column has been left, so that you

Tommy
Newton

Davidson over Presbyterian
Michigan over Army
Stanford over Mich, State
Notre Dame over Miami
Ohio State over Illinois
Oklahoma over Texas
Auburn over Kentucky
Rice over Clemson
Richmond over Citadel
North Carolina over Georgia
Georgia Tech over LSU
Mississippi over Vanderbilt
S. Carolina over Furman
Florida State over VPI
Maryland over Wake Forest

This comes as news to no one,
but the Davidsonian felt that it
should report the results of the
sport’s event that has just had the
attention of the world focused upon
it. Riding high on the cool clutch
pitching of 23 year old Johnny
Podres, the Brooklyn Dodgers won
their first World Series diadem in
six attempts against the New York
Yankees last Tuesday.

In a series uniquely dominated
by left handers, the “Flatbush

| Faithful” were finally rewarded

for their years of dispair as “dem

| Bums” became the World Champs.

Only the second team in all series
history to come back to win after
losing the first two efvorts, the
Dodgers parlayed strong pitching,
sparkling fielding, and striking
power into a margin of victory.

While the eyes of a majority of
Davidson College and a few pocket-
books, rode on every pitch, Duke
Snider’s tremendous clouts, Jackie
Robinson’s never ceasing hustle,
Rizzuto and Reese’s brilliant field-
ing and the entire stirring pano-

ment at a frenzied peak.

Yankee's big
lashed a wicked slice down the
left field line with two on, and

end, swiftly and definitely. Byrne

and Podres both hurled with fine]

, but the balance tipped
in favor of the swarthy Brooklyn
representative. For all practical
purposes, the end came when the
man, Yogi Berra,

rama kept classroom questions at]
a minimum and baseball excite-|

Tuesday afternoon brought the

and three times ended strong Cita-| right tackle for the score. Newton's |

using | j

Doug Oldenburg led last week's prognosticators, hitting on 13 out of 15 choices. This week a blank Presbyterian College of Clinton, |

With aa css

SOOO CLOSE!

penalties hurt them. An important
element that kept them in the
game was the determination of
Dyke Little to play a full game
well after Dick Belton had been
shaken up on the first play. Also
the running of Ken Conger and
Danny McRee deserve special men-
tion. Rowland looked good in help-
ing out with some of the best pass
defense seen from the Wildeats in
three years

| called for interferring with the pass
defender. The rain had a neutrali-
zing effect in that whereas it stifled
aerial offense, it also caused sev-
eral costly Citadel fumbles.

DC MEETS DUKE

Led by “Pete” Ashcraft, the Da-
vidson Cross Country team met
Duke at 4:00 p.m., this afternoon.:
After a month's hard preparation,
the harriers appear to be in tip-

For the Citadel Corley, Saunders,}top shape for their first meet.
and Tyson stood out in the line.| As the Davidsonian went to
Broome, Dzanis, Lesher, Sehwarz, press, no results had been turned
and Miller looked good in the{in. Last year the two teams battled

backfield. The Citadel also featur-
ed a 54-2 defense which worked
out rather successfully. An end, a
center, a fullback and a halfback
all backed up the line,

to a draw. Nothing is known as to
juality of Duke this year.

In any event this meet should
have been a rigid test of the
strength of the Cat aggregation.
rhe eyes of the school will be on
them as they prepare for the con-
ference meets.

SATURDAY

be either Dick Belton or Dyke

The game itself resulted in a few
seldom seen elements. There was a
touchback, a safety, and a penalty

BY CHARLES SIGMAN
tween him and a very successful

®. 4, REYNOLOS

@ King-size Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking — full, rich,
tobacco flavor! And the exclusive Winston filter works so effectively that the
flavor really comes through to you. College smokers know why Winston

changed America’s mind about filter smoking. Winston tastes good—like a cigarette should!

WINSTON 060.101 sedition of ffover !

%

ey

&.
ot

can match choices with the panel | South Carolina will invade the! season last year Little at the quarterback slot di-
Reitze! 8 — Wane | Davidson campus at 2:30 p. m. to Presbyterian has a large ball} recting the outfit. These two ex-
| Snider Dye Theses |. Chdbsshen jrenew an old grid rivalry. The/club and they possess a strong] pert signal callers with aid from
Al us a | | Blue Hose will be trying to make| passing attack. The small South|ends Gramley, Newton, Patterson,
ipe DC pe | it their third win in four years, and| Carolina school has only suffered| and Wall; tackles Jones, Fagg,
| Army Army Mich. } the Wildcats are attempting to stop| defeat at the hands of powerful} Llewellyn, and Lee; guards Davis,
| Stan. Stan. Stan: | their winning ways. Clemson, 33-0 Owen, Abernathy; and centers
Miami N. D. N. D. | In the games with the Blue Hose The Cats were plagued last Sat-| Price and James have done a fine
0. Ss. 0s.« 0. S. bec — gage agroag! = Cats _ Age — which completely} job, as shown by the statistics
Okla. Okla. Okla. | have only en able to take one.| bottled up their passing attack Dany Pan ere ;
‘Aub: ‘Aub. Ky. | Spectacular would deseribe these | That 6-2 victory over the Citadel placa a ee ee ae
| Clem. Clem. Clem: | contests. In 1952 Davidson won by| was hard won and hard fought. If conference.
| Rich Rich. Rich. a margin of 14-13, in 1953 P C/|the weather is clear Saturday, Oc-| |! the weather is fair Saturday,
NC N.C. Ga. | managed a 19-18 defeat of the well| tober 8th, you will see some ex-| the fans stand to get another view
Tech Tech. Tech | a — and oe they up- ag i The bo and the | of the now famous double barrelled
| Miss Vandy Miss. | set the apple cart, o 7, ose always have a close tilt, and) |. o.., attack. P . iri
. ¢ s.c S.C. Coach Bill Dole regards Presby-|.this should be no exception. png: ie Se © -~ ‘ =
VPI FS. U F.S.U | terian as being one of his roughest These past two games with Ca- en dew. 2 _
Md Md. Md. games, because the small Little|tawba and the Citadel have shown|the unpredictable Presbyterian
Four school was the pitfall be-|how the Cats operate. There will| cousins from South Carolina.
——VYVYOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!

yes

