CATS TO HIT
RICHMOND

(Page 3)

Che Dauidsonian

ESCAPE FROM
COMMUNISM
(Page 2)

VOL. XLIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1955

NO. 7

Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Ka
Select Eleven

ODK Speech on Maturity
Given in Chapel by Helm

BY GLENN ROBERTSON
The Delta Cirele of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped six out-

standing Davidson Seniors for

membership in Chapel Tues-

day. Hobby Cobb, Vice-President of the local Chapter, presided
ut the annual autumn ceremony.

Dewitt Helm, Editor of the David-
son College yearbook, Quips and
Cranks and an active member of
O.D.K., was the speaker. Helm
spoke on maturity, giving a four
point program for self analysis. In
conclusion he stated that a college
graduate, should be able to appre-
ciate the opinions of others and in
the final analysis, stand on his own
two feet and think for himself.

Following Helm’s talk Cobb
dropped the gavel on the rostrum
six times calling forth Messrs.
Child, Crouse, Koonce, McLauchlin,
Pharr, and Smith to the hallowed
halls of O.D.K.

Qualifications for membership in
the society are character, scholar-
ship, intelligence, service and lead-
ership in campus life, fellowship,
and conservation of Democratic
ideals. Character, however, is the
primary consideration for member-
ship.

JOHN CHILD

John Child, the venerable Fresh-
man advisor, is a native of Spartan-
burg, but at present hails from
Hopedale, Mass. John, a member
of Kappa Sigma is serving his sec-
ond term on the Student Council
and his first on the YMCA Cabinet.

Upon graduation from Davidson
with a major in Business, Mr. Child
will become a 2nd Lieutenant in the
Army. ‘

MAURICE CROUSE

Maurice Crouse is the little man
with the big stick on the campus.
Besides claiming membership to
Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Epsilon,
Tau Kappa Alpha, Sigma Delta Pi,
and Seabbard and Blade, Mac holds
down the Publicity Post of the Y
Cabinet and is Associate Editor of
the Davidsonian.

Last year Crouse was managing

President of the Campus Club and
this year he is President of his
organization. Cadet Capt. Crouse,
a native of Lincolnton, N. C., grad-
uates from Davidson in June with
Special Attainments in History to
serve his country as a commis-
sioned officer.

PHIL KOONCE

Well known to all Davidsonians,
is Phil Koonce, a native of Tarboro,
N. C., and an affiliate of A.T.O.
As President of this year’s IFC.
Koonce is responsible for all dance
weekends and their concurrent
headaches. Certainly we should not
overlook the fact that Koonce, last
year, was high point man on the
Track Squad and is captain of the
track team for the ensuing year.
His specialty is the hundred yard
dash.

Phil as Regimental Executive Of-
ficer, is second in command at
R.O.T.C. Drill on Tuesdays and on
completion of his Phychology Ma-
jor, he plans to serve his stretch
for Uncle Sam.

JOHN McLAUCHLIN

Personable John McLauchlin
hails from Raeford, N. C., is Vice-
President of his Fraternity, Beta
Theta Pi, and is chairman of the
YMCA Gift Fund, Business Major.
“Johnny Mac” holds a coveted post
on the R.O.T.C. Regimental Staff,
and is Captain (President) of Seab-
bard and Blade, the Honorary Mili-
tary Fraternity.

Last year McLauchlin was the
most feared member of the Court
of Control and strangely enough
Vice-President of the YMCA.

JOE BILLY PHARR
Cherryville, N. C., claims Joe
Billy Pharr, a math major and

Editor of the Davidsonian and Vice-

(Continued On Page Four)

BRICE POLL:

Preference

According to a poll taken this past week by the David-

Martins fo Conduct
1956 Brownell Tour

The Brownell Southern Colleges
Tour for 1956 will inelude three |
Scandinavian countries in addition
to the eight other European coun
ltries which have been visited by
| this group in 1954 and 1955

The 51 day tour which will di
| part from Quebee on June 30 will |
| be conducted by Mr. and Mrs. Grier |

| Martin. who also conducted the
11954 tour Dean and Mrs. S. R
Spencer, Jr., were leaders of the
1955 tour
The Atlantie crossing will be
made on the S. S. Homeric, air con
ditioned flagship of the Home
| Lines. This desirable new ship has
; been so much in demand that the

allocation of space on it for the
Southern Colleges Tour has been

Shown above are the six members of the senior class who were tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa
during Tuesday's chapel program. Left to right, front row, are: Harley Smith, Maurice Crouse, John
MeLauchlin. Second row: Joe Billy Pharr, John Child, and Phil Koonce. reduced by one-third from last
is “eS — gas eApeithi ai Riese lyear. With reservations already

made for almost one-half of these

Record Popu Survey
Made by Psychology Class

wn > 9 ; "4 , . i . 7 .

case of a hit) could be saved in the experiment at Heidelburg. have come trom-Dulie. North Caro
An experiment done here at Da-| Results obtained here were very : :

‘id anid , ai at hie 6. ae ee “ee he lina, Mississippi, Agnes Scott, Ste

vidson and one done eariier at, similar to ose obtained at the} phens, Hollins and Davidson

spaces, it is expected that the tour
will be filled much earlier than last
year’s tour which was completely
full at the first of the year

The Southern Colleges Tour has
received enthusiastic from
the 57 tour members from 22 col-
leges and universities in 15 states
A majority of the tour members

praise

BY JACK TRAWICK
What, if anything, makes a rec

of Senior

| the campus

ord sell? The sexy phrasings of a
curvacious female beauty, the rich
tones of a handsome male, the
dreamy strains of enchanting vio-
lins, the brassy sound of the trum-
pet and trombone, the comic ef-|
fect of record clowns? Experi-|

Heidelburg College, Ohio, have at-| Ohio school. Ratings for each ree disnsininiinde Gin Wie Voie: doe
tempted to provide the answer to! ord remained fairly stable through | ati: te. Sewell. Toure of Birm
this question. Results show that) out the ten ratings, but ratings for) au fil - ’
fe eee Be | ingham, Ala., the oldest and largest
records do have some quality which | different records varied markedly | private (sie: sapeiee: tia: Aienon
regulates their appeal. Specifically | This indicates that records do have | aisitiess iatimnaliain oa. te tiene
what quality this may be has not; something within their makeup ian be aeouneal tins Mr; Martin
, ; 4 yet been determined, but the door, which causes them to be received wast ‘
mental psychology students have : |
begun work to determine the an. | 4s at least been opened for further| with varying degrees of accept NOTICE
swer to this question, which could) research in the field a.
prove to be invaluable to record! In the experiment done here, 50; The experiment seems to show} Any member of the Student Body.
manufacturers. students were selected at random) that we buy one record because it! who would like to purchase an ex-
: “ from the student body. Previous| lifts us up, which is what we need|tra copy of the Quips and Cranks
It’ is recognized that when rec | musical knowledge or experience | at the moment; or we reject. an- for: his parents, girl friend, or
ords go on the market they follow | was not considered. The 50 sub-| other record at the same moment} friends ean do 0 by payment of
one of three general patterns of} jects were divided into five groups | because it is slow and moody and $4.00 to Hugh: Malone prior to
appeal they start with a bang! of ten each. The subjects were | (Continued On Page Four) Thanksgiving :
and end with a fizzle; they start! coated in the modern, comfortable | eae

slowly and pick up momentum; OF| environment of a relatively sound-| : Se
they follow a fairly static level of | ypoof room, were told the purpose Mer qi ij a ( ij a f
Students Act Pretty Nice

basis of

Five Seniors with High
Scholastic Rating Chosen

Five members of the Class of 1956 have been elected to
membership by Gamma of North Carolina Chapter of the
Society of Phi Beta Kappa and will be initiated as members-

_in-course early in December. These men are: ‘oe Harvey
| Gaskin; Archie B. Joyner, III; Pat D. Miller, Jr.; Richard R.

Pyle; and Thomas W. Warlick |
Phi Beta Kappa. whose local | fraternity, and a member of Euman
chapter was established at David-| ean Literary Society

son in 1923, recognizes stude
gt npiroed PAT MILLER
who have maintained superior aca- Pat Mill : ?
demic standing during their years | 7 slg Me Meher See
| from Atlanta, Georgia. A student
jin English honors work, he is also

here. Six men were elected last
Spring. "
an outstanding German scholar and

Fue new candidates. have estat). iis csesds t of Delt
lished outstanding records in fields pen a é a Delta Phi
other than those related to scholar- a ie. , ggg i€ eman frater-
; Ship, and have made a large contri- non Miller is a brother of Sigma

bution in the way of leadership on
Those who have ful-
filled the requirements are
JOE GASKIN
Joe Gaskin is a pre-medical stu-

TOM WARLICK
Tom Warlick is from Newton.
North Carolina, and a member of
Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity
He is president of the International
dent from Alhemarle, North Caro-| Relations Club, a member of
lina, who is « member of Alpha Tau! Eumanean Literary Society, and is
Omega social fraternity. He has| doing work in history honors. War
held several offices in the frater-| lick has also been designated as a
. among them are seholarship| Distinguished Military student
chairman and co-rush chairman. He
has also written for the tion _— 1
cain, Dick Pyle the second pre-
medical student in the group of
ARCHIE JOYNER new members. He has already been
Archie Joyner, from Greensboro, ; accepted at three of the top medi
is a business major whose greatest| cal schools in the country and is
claim to fame is his vietory in‘ the! president of Alpha Epsilon Delta,
Freshman Cake Race of 1952. A| national honorary medical frater-
member of Beta Theta Pi, he is the| nity. He is also secretary of Gamma
social chairman for that pry nad Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry
tion. Joyner is president of Sigma| fraternity. Pyle is from Del Ray
Delta Pi, national Spanish honorary | Beach, Florida

Is

Graduate Fellowships

Graduate Fellowships for 1956-
57 for the study of. International
Relations leading to the M. A. de
gree have been announced by the
University of Denver, Denver, Colo
'

rado }

Fellowships ranging from tuition |
to $1,500 dollars and provided by |”
The Soctal Seience Foundation are! =
available to 1956 college graduates
with outstanding records.
Applications must be postmarked
not later than March 1, 1956. In-
terested seniors are urged to con-
tact Dr. G. L. Abernethy for further
information

ARCHIE JOYNER

sonian, the political views of Davidson students vary greatly.
There is an almost equal number of Republicans and Demo-
crats, and even those in the same party favor a number of

5. Who do you think will be the
Democratic nominee?
307—75% Stevenson.

different candidates.

The only opinions on which there
was general agreement were: 1). If
Eisenhower runs again, he will be

re-elected; 2). Stevenson will be 49—12% Harriman.
the Democratic nominee, 18— 4% Kefauver.
Six hundred students were asked 13— 3% Russell.
to give their opinion, but only 417 4— 1% Symington.
of these returned the questionnaire. 2—.5% Lausche.
This, of course, is approximately 2—.5% Mennen Williams.
one-half the student body. 15—4.% Other.

flop) or underproduction (in the —the three by Como—were used

‘Y’ Meeting Will Feature

Former Russian Officer |

Nicholas T. Goncharoff, a staff member of the Interna-
tional Committee of the YMCA, will be guest speaker at Tues-
day night’s YMCA Membership meeting. His appearance here
es being managed by the Commission for Effective Citizen-
ship. 5

ee |

paths a particular record will take? | various records: Extremely Ap
Or is there any such quality which | pealing, Very Appealing, Appeal-
can be demonstrated? ling, Less Appealing, Least Appeal-
In the past record manufacturers | ins
have based their rate of production) Five records — Bali Hai, Because,
However, if some method could be | derstand by Ralph Flanagan—were| observed Robert Merrill, world famous baritone of the Metro-
devised to determine before re- played five times each, and two! politan Opera, upon his second visit to the Davidson campus.
lease what appeal a record will/ ratings were made during each! Mr Merrill will appear in concert in Chambers Auditorium on
have, much money which is lost-in | playing. November 4 RSS
overproduction (in the case of a| Thr » ».| 6 2
ve of the records used Were) py on exclusive interview for the| medicine simply on the
and its -tudent bedy. “This is one else. If one has ability it will come
of the quietest campuses I have} out with experience
| ever visited. The atmosphere is; My favorite rol: the one I
; wonderful for relaxation and study, | am doing at the moment,” said Mr.
and the students seem to be the} Merrill ‘in reply to a querry as to
served, however, that Rigoletto, The
low average height, dark complex-| Barber of Seville, and Carmen were
ioned, and carries himself with the| among his favorite operas. “One 4
self-confidence of a man who has/ never stops learning from Rigo-| |
| done | in. life. His marked) letto,” he said.

we

is leading

Mr. Goncharoff will speak to the

consumption. What quality in the! of the experiment, and were asked
on how the record fares during its and Temptation by Perry Como; OF LENO: CHAPIE
Davidsonian Mr. Merrill made sev-| study; he must have practical train
| serious type —doing some work.”| what is his favorite role. He ob-|
His talk at Davidson 1s one in a| Brooklyn accent is tempored by a Who

The questions asked were as fol-
lows (Number of answers and ap-
proximate percentage are given on
the side):

1. Which party do you prefer?

168—40% Republican.

177—43% Democratic.

72—17% Independent.

2. Do you think President Eisen-
hower will run for re-election?

119—28.5% Yes.

271—65 % No.

27— 6.5% No opinion.

3. If he runs, do you think he will
be elected?

353—84.5% Yes.

49—11.5% No.
16— 4 % No opinion.

4. lf Eisenhower does not run,
who do you think will be the Re-
publican nominee?

147—37% Nixon.

47—12% Knowland.

91—23% Warren.

43—11% Stassen.

6. Republicans only answer this
question. If Eisenhower does not
run, who do you want to be the
Republican nominee?

55—35. % Nixon.

1l— 7 % Knowland.

39—24 % Warren.
17—10.5% Stassen.

15— 9.5% Dewey.

8— 9 % Milton Eisenhower.
14— 9 % Othes.

7. This question is for Democrats
only. Who is your choice for the
Democratic nomination?

73—42 % Stevenson.

8— 4.5% Harriman.

20—11.5% Kefauver.

58—33 % Russell.

1— 5% Symington.

3— 1.5% Lausche.

0— 0 % Mennen Williams.
12— 7 % Other.

Students who were-in charge o
taking the poll are: Bob King,
Morrissey, John Toumaras,

record determines which of these to vive the following ratings to
first weeks of release to the public.| and Peter Piper Boogie and I Un- “For guys with no gals around you act pretty nice.’”’ Thus
eral comments on Davidson College | ing first, and so must everyone
The great baritone is a little be- /
series given to various

Y membership after the worship
service and at the end of his
speech, he will answer any ques-

tions which members might have.| people to their philosophy.

Growing up in Russia, Mr. Gon-
charoff was reared in the Christian |
faith by his father, a priest in the|
Russian Orthodox Church, who was |

sity of Odessa and when the war
came, he found himself in the tank |
corps. He became a commander be- |

eral Patton's forces overran the!
prison camp.

At the present time, Mr. Gon-
charoff is studying communist tac- |

tics with youth organizations and.

groups |
about the methods of the com-} which reveal a person whose fame} at-the moment,” he replied with a}
munists in their efforts to convert! has not made him such a tempera-

al reputation

warm smile and genial manner

mental personality as other artists
who have visited Davidson in the
past

Although Mr. Merrill said that!
he misses the fact he didn’t go to!

later exiled to Siberia by the gov-! college, he observed that; “study-| ful career in music are
ernment. He attended the Univer- | ing to become a musical artist is | than they have ever been before
like

several college educations!
wrapped up in one.”

How can college young people

who has established an internation-
for himself says,
“Study is wonderful, but experience
is the important thing. I took to
music quite young, eighteen, and

your favorite
lady’ “The one I am singing with
wink

He likes to sing in both opera
and in concert equally well. “Both
offer different challenges in differ-
ent seasons.” |

The opportunities for a success-
greater

Mr. Merrill feels. Television, radio,
and records offer the prise ages
with the ability and personality a

'

fore being captured by the German | best prepare themselves for a use- | chance to make a reputation in
Army and was released when Gen- ful and successful life? The manj many fields.”

On Saturday the Met's top bari-|
tone will return to New York to|
begin rehearsals for the coming |

season

On stage no one presents a more, ,

TOM WARLICK

imposing and thrilling figure than
Robert Merrill.
tion over supper in the College
Union, however, the great baritone}
is neither imposing nor thrilling,

religious groups and his speaking | took every sort of job offered to me
tours are concerned with spread-|in order to gain experience. I
ing information about these taetics,' would say to all young people, that
as well as seeking to define “the| they should go out and accept any
Christian alternative to Commu-| job offered them in the field of

Making conversa: |

Kernan, Tony Huggins, an
Smyth, Basil Sharp, Al Myers, Fred
Streetman, and Ed Stevens.

17— 5% Dewey.
8— 2% Milton Eisenhower.
41—10% Other.

nism.”
Mr. Goncharoff will speak to the
Cadet Regiment at drill Tuesday.

but a friendly man who seems to
enjoy’ young people, singing, and
perhaps, even Mr. Murphy's food.

their interest in order to gain ex-
perience. A medical student can-
not begin the actual practice of

