For the first time in
the memory of those
now attending David-
son, it is possible to
have an unique experi-
ence. Several times
this spring, through
eyes that are still half-
closed with sleep, a
glance at the morning
sports page has quick-
ly snapped us ' into

consciousness. Our S + .
spring sports repre- | ,
tered victories, often
three on one day in —e OOO
(Keesler And Clark Are
. a
One And Two In Singles

The annual Southern Conference Tennis Tournament got
into full sway yesterday as the first and second rounds in the
singles and doubles play were completed. Teams from David-
son, VMI, VPI, William and Mary, George Washington, Rich-
mond, and Washington and Lee are engaged in the tourney,
and the Cats are favored to repeat as champions. Lacy Kees-
ler, number one Cat netter for the past two years and singles
champion last year, is seeded number one and should retain
his crown. Corky Clark, runner-up to Keesler last year, is

GOLFERS PLAY IN
CONFERENCE TOURNEY

KEESLER AND CLARK
SEEDED ONE AND TWO

po

The Pavidsonian

ALENDA LUK VBI

QRTA LIBERTAS

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1955 | PAGE THREE

——_

Because of their clear dominance in their events, Phil
Koonce and Pete Ashcraft have captured most of the news-
paper space. But that is far from the whole story. The ever
improving tosses of Bill “Stallion” Gramley in the shot and

In the picture this year tennis, baseball, golf, and track S| ee’
te Against State
to finish the season with a perfect record hasn’t fully dawned a a in $ a
be the first team to go undefeated since the 1943 track team. | for this season by overwhelming the Generals from Washing-| ;
high point man. Koonce garnered 15 points, while Pete Ash-

By LEON HOWELL different sports. For e —_
years the clamor for winning teams has been heard and now *
we are fortunate to be present during a highly successful year. inc a $ a e ean
have all had their high moments. Involved in various last-
minute activities, the fact that the track team is almost a cinch
on the student body. With only the NC State meet to go, Pete By CHARLES HELMS
Whittle’s charges have swept aside all competition and should Pete Whittle’s cindermen maintained their perfect record
ton and Lee 9414-37% last Friday afternoon. The Cats have
now won six straight, ahd for the sixth time Phil Koonce was
craft and Bill Gramley, who were also outstanding, got 10 each.
Koonce won first place in the) -————————_—"

discus have contributed many valuable points to the tally.!100-yard dash with a time of
Frank Mitchner, shifting in his senior year to an unfamiliar | :09.96, in the 220-yard dash with
spot, and Roswell Mallory, control the 440. Floyd Feeney | 22-8. and in the broad jump with

pushes the invincible Ashcraft in the two-mile, while in the
javelin Smith, Wright, and Martin are all vying for the coveted

first place. Jack Huffaker is a constant threat in the high| and 10:24.7. Gramley took first in
jump and Don Campbell approaches stardom in the hurdles.|the shot put with the distance, of

The honor roll could go on.

came through to win in 3:46.3.

Winners for the Generals in-
cluded Kennedy in the high

a distance of 21 feet 6% inches.
Ashcraft came in first in the one
mile and two-mile. runs in 2:48.4

hurdles in :15.35, Creel in the jave-
lin with a heave of 171 feet 2
inches. and Pipkin and Simkins
(tie) in the pole vault with 10
feet.

44 feet 4% inches and th
sa en moved Tomorrow the Cats will lay their

over to the discus area, where his

But we'll halt it here, with a vote of thanks to these] throw of 128 feet and 15% inches|®0 Tecord on the line again when

men who participate in a sport that demands
little in popular acclaim. For we are proud of you and the

record you have compiled this year.

Away from the Cat scene for a moment, one of the most
realistic functions on the baseball front at this time of per-
petual hope is the cutting adrift of former greats. As spring

replaces the decay of winter, so do young stars like Herb|son’s mile relay team of Mallory,|Frank Mitchner,

$0| Was good enough for first in that
much—in ability, guts, and desire—and oftentimes returns so} ¢¥e"™-

they meet North Carolina ‘State.
Last year Davidson outpointed the
Wolf Pack 89%-41%. Coach
. | Whittle expects to have the most
Mitchner in the 440-yard run in| trouble in the distance events; Bob
0:53, Snyder Garrison in the 880-) Jones of State is nationally ranked
yard run in 2:04, Don Campbell in| in the sgo-yard run. This will be
the low hurdles in :26, and Jack) tne jast regular season meet for
Huffaker in the high jump with f a
a leap of 5 feet 11 inches. David-|fUr seniors: Harry Peterson,
Floyd Feeney,

Other first places went to Frank

Score, Ken Boyer, Al Kaline, John Kuchs, Wally Moon, etc., Garrison, Duiguid, and Mitchner and Jack Huffaker.

gradually squeeze out the veterans of the baseball wars.
Among those who have either retired or are fast approaching
the end are Ewell Blackwell, Vern Stephens, Vic Raschi, Allie
Reynolds, and John Sain to mention a few. All of them have

Wildcat Of The Week

given much time to our national game, but there is no room} ne of the sports on the David-| brand of golf there is an excellent
for sentiment in the big time. They've had their time of fame|son scene which receives very| chance that the trophy will remain
and it’s time to make room for-the new stars. And wonder |little publicity is golf, but one of | at rest at Davidson.

when Ted Williams is going to decide that he had rather tag a
fast ball than snag a fish? °

.

summer school.

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Phone ED. 2-8257

118 West Trade Street

Better tennis
for you starts
right here...

The confidence you need to
keep up your game is built right
into this fine Spalding racket.

The Spalding KRO-BAT® de»
livers all the “‘feel” for better con-
trol and accuracy. It's built to take
power serves and smashes, and
give you top performance.

Buy the KRO-BAT in your own
weight and grip size. Just one set
will tell you . . . this is your year for

* better tennis,

SPALDING
ee

SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

the outstanding athletes on the
campu. is the number one golfer,
Al Gaither. A member of Pi Kappa
Alpha, Al is married and is a
senior, planning to graduate in

In many &

sports, practice is
a drudgery, but to Al playing golf F: {7
anytime is a pleasure. Many times a aa
during the summer or holidays he} 4
can be seen playing a round on f
the course at Hickory, near his
home at Newton..N. C.

Consistently this year Al has
been the medalist in the play with | ¢.
rival teams. His scores always];
range in the low 70's, while his| 3%
best round of the year was athree| %: 7
under par 69 during the spring | F@
tour of Florida. This weekend, Al
leads the team into the Southern
Conference tournament being held
at the Danville Country Club at
Danville, Virginia. The Cats are
defending champions, and if Al
continues to shoot his usual ood

SPEs Refain Lead -
in Greek Softball

By JOHN JOHNSON

Still leading the interfraternity
softball league is the hot SPE team
with eight wins and one loss, as
they continued their winning
streak this week to wrap up tho
league championship. Although
losses in their final two games
could mean a tie for the crown,
the SPEs are expected to finish
in the number one position alone.

The Sigma Chis and the Phi
Delts are tied for second place
with 7-3 records. The Phis pulled
up from fifth place last week by
winning three consecutive games,
while the Sigs rose one notch. The
ATOs are now in the number four
position after dropping two places
from last week’s standings.

In this week’s action through
Wednesday, both the Phi Delts and
the SPEs won two games; the
former downed the ATOS and the
Pi Kapps, the lstter were victori-
ous over the Pikas and KAs. Three
teams had split records: the Kappa
Sigs beat the Pi Kapps but lost to
the Phi Gams; the Betas dropped
the SAEs and were defeated by
the Pikas; and the Phi Gams lost
to the Sigma Chis but won over
the Kappa Sigs.

Because there was no action this
Monday, the softball season will
not be finished until one day of
make-up games is held next week. |

Switching to inter-fraternity ten-
nis, Bill Rawson won the champion-
ship in the singles tournament by
downing the Phi Gams’ Bobby Key

(Continued on Page Four)

a

AL GAITHER

yet so

You finally meet the campus
queen—on graduation day!

Murderers Row—(L. to R.): Hope, Little, Morris, Rowland and West.

Baseballers

Davidson’s Wildcat baseballers
will bring a very successful sea-
son to a close next Friday afternoon
against the VMI Cadets on the
home diamond. This year's nine
has been characterized by good
hitting and better than average
pitching, a combination which is
hard to beat, and in this case, a
combination which has not often
been beaten. For the first time in
many years, the season’s won-lost
record will find twice as many
games won as lost.

Tuesday afternoon the Cats
added two games to the win

m’)-|column by taking a doubleheader

from Furman, 3-2 and 6-5. In the
first game, which was the seven-
inning contest, Dick Belton notched
his second win of the season, al-
though he developed a slightly
sore arm and was relieved by Ish
Bennett in.the last inning. Both
teams garnered seven hits, though
Furman left ten men stranded on
base. Buzz Hope and Don Me-
Ree led the Davidson hitting at-
tack, Buzz getting 3 for 3, and Don
2 for 3, while Belton's six strike-
outs kept the Furman attack
bottled up. Jim West batted across
the winning run in the last of the

seventh, blasting a triple to drive

mild!
ed

seeded in the number two spot, and he and Lacy are also
expected to cop the doubles crown. Seeded third is Harrison
Straley, Richmond’s outstanding entry.

In the first round singles play.

ing, Davidson had only two
matches. Leighton Green defeated
Sterling Williamson of VMI. 6-4.
6-2, and Dick Makepéace downed
John Peale of W&L by scores of
6-3 and 6-0. Opening second round
play, John Robinson defeated John
Lynch of West Virginia, 6-2, 6-2.
Lacy Keesler, playing extremely
sharp tennis, downed Bill Emerick
of VMI, 6-0, 6-0. Leighton Green
met with some tough luck in his
three-set match with Herb Rappa-
port of George Washington: for,
after taking the first set by the
score of 6-1, Leighton. somewhat
sick on his stomach, dropped the
next two sets, 6-0 and 6-3. This does
not, in any way deter from the
fine play of Rappaport, who played
very good tennis throughout the
match. In his second match of the
day, Dick Makepeace ran into some
of the toughest competition in the
tournament in the person of Harri-
son Straley, and Dick put up a
good fight in losing, 64, 6-1.
George Snead, seeded seventh.
made his first appearance in the
tourney by defeating Dick Buttrick
of W&L, 6-1, 6-3. In the last match
of the second round singles, Corky
Clark met ond defeated Charles
Bowden of Richmond, 6-2, 6-1. As
a result of yesterday's play, David-
son carried four men into the third
round singles, which began this
morning. The biggest test was ex-
pected from Straley, who met
Snead earlier today.

ee re nemceinmetatiaas

Take Two

home Hope. Errorless play aided
the Cat cause.

The second game saw the Cats
off to a very bad start, as leaky
fielding and a couple of timely
Furman hits put the Greenville
boys ahead five to nothing. In the
fourth, Ollie Harris accounted for
Davidson's first run by blasting a
homer over the scoreboard in
right field, the first of two hits
for the versatile freshman star. In
the sixth, the Cats finally got tu
the Furman hurler for four runs
to tie the score. Ish Bennett, who
came to the mound in relief of
Johnny Smith in the fifth, doubled
to deep left-center, and was singled
home by Don Comer. Three walks,
a force out, and a bad throw to
first base netted the Cats three |
more runs before the inning ended.
In the eighth, Bill Rowland walked,
and with the hit and run on, Dyke
Little doubled behind the runner
into right to send home the win-
ning run.

which began early yesterday morn- } ings

ee

—ow

late yesterday afternoon.
There were no Davidson matches
in the first round. Clark and Kees-
ler were superb in defeating the
W&M twosome of Mason Swan and
Bill Clay by the score of 6-0, 6-1.
In the other Cat win, Leighton
Green, féeling much better froni
his earlier sickness, teamed with
George Snead to defeat Charles
Bowden and Bob Collins of Rich-
mond, 6-0, 6-1. In a match against
the number one doubles combina.

(Continued on Page Four)

Athletes Set Annual
Banquet For Monday

This coming Monday night, the
annual athletic banquet will be
held in the College Union Ball-
room. This get-together is always
one of the highlights of the year
for the boys who represent David-
son in all phases of athletic en-
deavor, and the little impromptu
speeches by the coaches who give
out. the awards always afford a
great deal of humor. From last
year's fete camé a classic remark.
When asked how his swimming
team did over the season, Coach
Hambright replied, “Well, purty
good. We didn’t have nobody ©
drown.”

The banquet honors boys who
have lettered in a varsity-or junior-
varsity sport, or who have re-
mained out for a sport all season,

Perhaps the star of the game
was Ish Bennett, who did not give
up a hit in his five innings of re-
lief. Ish’s comment, after fanning
the last two batters in the ninth
inning was, “Boy! I sure did shut] and Green

the door on ‘em!”

And then you find her summering
next to your house on the bay...

and all team managers. In keeping
with college traditions, the food
will be of the best quality, and the
fellowship will be of the best va-
riety. If you are eligible to attend,
by all means don’t miss it.

In the doubles play, the Cats
had two of their three teams still
in the competition, as the teams
of Clark and Keesler and Snead
took their initial
matches in second round proceed-

M-m-man,

that’s PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SRIOKE CAMELS !
No other cigarette is so rich-tasting,

®.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive
blend of costly tobaceos — one of the reasons why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!

* J Reynclas Tooece. Co Wirstcr-Oales N Q
