— BY —

STUDENT'S PICK ‘EM
OPENED TO ALL

LEON HOWELL

In the Davidsonian of October 7, 1955 the final report of.
the committee studying subsidization of athletics was printed.
After a long and thorough analysis, this group of trustees and
faculty members has presented its report and the stand taken
has the air of finality

For some time the matter had received a tremendous
amount of discussion and debate, much of this finding its way
into print on these pages. Misunderstandings and indignation
often cropped up. This comprehensive document should have
clarified many of these questions.

As it stands we are apparently going to follow a middle
of the road policy for some years, with the hope of ultimately
joining a completely amateur loop.

It is a great tribute to the entire football team that at
present they are tied for the Southern Conference lead, when |
the total athletic budget here is the second smallest in the
Conference.

For this reason and as long as Davidson continues to fare
as well as they have recently, very little will be said about in-
creasing the budget. However, there continues to be those
who would prefer a completely non-subsidized program here.
When confronted with the fact that many outstanding students
are able to attend Davidson due to grant-in-aids, they immedi-
ately point out that the majority of those on the team who
need aid would have such help for the very reason that they
are above average in every respect.

Very few of those who advocate a larger allotment would
want athletics to assume the outsized importance that results
in such cases as the disgusting Harvey-Ronnie Knox case or
Maryland's famous Case 10 with the 85 I. Q. Rather they desire
2 budget large enough to secure players with the ability to
mold Davidson into a Southern power, while holding on to the
same high scholastic standards.

It is significant that the president of Yale, Dr. Whitney
Griswold, published in the ‘Sports Illustrated” of October 17
a penetrating article on Yale’s stand in the football dilemma.
Although the extremes he represents are not fully expressed
at Davidson, certainly his ideas are applicable in many cases.
A few selected excerpts follow.

“As long as organized athletics remained within the)
bounds of amateurism they imparted its object lessons and its |
values to the whole community. In these ways they served the |

general interests of the coileges, educational as well as social. | kick.

They have become so much a part of college life that it is
hard to conceive of that life without them, even harder to
imagine what might take their place.”

“Wherein lies the evil? .. . This was the growing interest
of spectators and the tendency of the colleges to cater to and
commercialize that interest ... To keep up revenue and, pre-
sumably, alumni loyalty, winning teams were necessary; to be
sure of winning teams competent players had to be recruited

. If academic standards stood in the way, the standards had
to be compromised.”

Whatever you as a student of Davidson favor, whether
pure amateurism or strong subsidization, | am firmly con-
vinced that it would be congruous with Griswold’s statement
that “In the total life of the campus, emphasis upon intercol-
legiate competition must be kept in harmony with the essential
educational purposes of the institution.”

COUSAR REVAMPS

RIFLE TEAM
‘M

This year the Davidson rifle team

Capt. George Cousar. Capt. Cousar
has revealed a schedule for the
team which includes Duke, Wake
Forest, the University of North
Carolina, and State.

———_——

| year

The Davbidsonian

ALENDA LUX UB)

GORTA LIBERTAS

LYLE LLEWELLYN
WILDCAT OF WEEK

PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1955

Victory Vaults Davidson
Into Conference Lead

By JOHN
Last Saturday in Lexington, Vir-
finia, the Davidson Wildeats

downed the VMI on the Keydets’
Alumni Field by the seore of 21
to 7. It was the Cats’ game from
the opening whistle as they turned
jim their best performance this

The Wildcats took the opening
kickoff to their own 29-yard line
and started an impressive march
down the field with Dick Belton
mixing running and passing plays.
VMI finally halted the drive when
Dick Lyons intercepted a pass on
their own one yard line. The ‘Cat
line, not giving an inch in three
downs, forced the Keydets to punt.

Little chme in at quarterback for
Davidson. He hit end Bill Grame-
ly for a first down on the VMI 20,
used the pitch-out play for 9 more
yards, and then found Gramely
again, this time for 6 points. Bel-
ton made it 7-0 by kicking the ex-
tra point.

Davidson kicked off; and two
plays later James recovered a VMI
fumble. The Cats couldn't keep a
drive going and the Keydets
couldn't make a first down, so the
teams started a punting duel. The
kicks were so long and high that
runbacks were short and twice the
safety men called for a fair catch.
Woolwine was a superior punter
for the opponents, while the Cats
were averaging about 35 yards a

In the fading minutes of the
first half the Wildcats started driv-
ing again, this time from their own
26. Highlighted by a 35-yard pass
to McRee they moved to within the
10-yard line only to have a second
interception stop the drive.

The half ended, 7 to 0, but there
was little doubt as to who was in
command; the Keydets hadn't been
out of their own territory yet. Al-
though the Wildcats. had to spend
the half time in a bus, for the
small and old stadium had no
locker rooms, they came back to
the game full of fire.

JOHNSON
the third quarter, fullback Ken
Conger took a pitch out and raced

A

36 yards to the VMI Belton
made the touchdown and the extra
point |

After Woolwine made a beautiful |

return to the 40 on the kick, the!
Keydets fumbled and Lyle
Llewellyn recovered) The Cats|

drove down to the 3-yard line and
again lost the ball on an intercep-
tion, but Belton recovered another
Keydet fumble on the next play.)
Dyke Little came back in the game
and scored on the fourth attempt
Again the conversion was good
The Keydets’ score came’ late in
the last quarter when, after two)
losses, West dropped back to punt!
only to have it blocked by Harry!
Shepard on the Davidson four yard |
line. Two plays later Dale Vaughn}
cut through left tackle and vent|

core, |
|

converted to make the final
21 to 7

For the losers Moody carried the |
heavy offensive load; but it was!
the long legs of Woolwine on kick

runbacks that were the greatest
threat. Nebraska, the freshman
quarterback, was unimpressive in)

statistics but quite the opposite
actual play.
For the

in|

winners, the backfield
exhibited an ability to move the
ball on the ground, an ability large
ly lacking in previous contests. Da
vidson’s 174 yards rushing was its
best to date. The backs ran with
speed, power and determination.
McRee lead the rushing with 66
yards, but Conger had 51° and
Campbell 47.

The line also played its best game |
of the season. The leather popped |
hard and loud on every play; there |
were frequent occasions of broken |
shoulder pads and helmets; and}
three times the game was halted}
for VMI injuries. On defense the!
team tackled hard, recovered four
VMI fumbles, and held the Key-
dets to less yardage than they
made against the nationally ranked

A few plays after the start of

The big question in the minds
of most Davidson students as the
weekend draws near is: will the

afternoon? From all outside in

has been reorganized by Cadet

Cats to Meet Hatters

By CHARLES McGOWAN

Davidson eleven be able to push |
by the Stetson Hatters in the grid)
battle at Deland, Florida Saturday |

West vowels

lafternoon will not be a pushover,
but instead a game in’ which all
the “Cats” from Davidson will have
to be on their toes

Stetson’s record this year of 4

defeats and only 1 victory is

lin the V

| one

R VMI 21-7

Outstanding
line that has been up and down,
Lyle Llewellyn was named Wildcat

all year long in a

of the Week for his spectacular
performance last Saturday against
¥. eek

of last Saturday
M. L. backfield when they
had the ball, making several. spec-
tacular tackles, as well as stealing
the ball from one of their backs on
occasion. As is usually the
case, this 210 pound combination of
speed and muscle was more than
the opposing line could handle.
As has been the case with the
previous selections. Lyle also is
more than an average student, is
very active in student activities,

Lyle spent most

into the end zone standing up. Ross| and is admired for his friendly na-' for his

Llewellyn Named
of Week

ture around the campus.

In the Wildeat’s outstanding
tory date, the line played a
major role, and Llewellyn was the
ring leader of this crew of blocking,
tackling demons. Good — blocking

vic

to

allowed the backs to slip through |
something |

for several long gains,
lacking in recent weeks
Extremely strong, Lyle
rough,
that is inspiring to his teammates,
as well as extremely discouraging
to the opposing team, especially
|to the hardpressed quarterbacks
For his outstanding performance
of last week, the Charlotte News
named Lyle their lineman of the
week. Congratulations are due him
play for the entire year

plays

LYLE LLEWELLYN

CAT HARRIERS LOSE 10 STRONG

N. C. STATE IN TRIANGULAR MEET

al
aggressive brand of football |

Fast Action In Flickerball League

BY BILL PITSER ton Sanders accounted for two
The Sigma Chis, possessors of a} more. Blake's only extra point was

42-point a game average, coasted| the deciding margin

to their seventh straight win by The SPEs moved into fourth
beating the ATOs 32.0. Led by the! place by posting two wins during
passing of Ray Harding and P. A. nay week. They beat the KAs 27-12
Anderson and the receiving of | and the Campus Club 45-13. TDs
Mal McSwain. Dave Hood, Al) by John Partridge, Joel Black-
Moore, and Bill Morris, the Sigs; welder, Bayles Mack, and Hunter

moved into first place. Long runs) Warlick featured the wins.
by: Buzz Hope set up two of the! The Pika’s moved into the win
touchdowns. The defensive efforts | column by downing the Pi Kapps
of Don Massey, Phil Koonce, and 13-0. Touchdowns by Joe Pharr and
Bob Stewart were not enough to) George Scott gave the Pikas their
over come the strong Sig offense. first win. Buck Reinhardt and Mack
The Phi Delts moved into a tie| Hamor helped hold the Pi Kapps
for second place by beating the
Kappa Sigs, 33-12. Touchdowns by The SAEs ripped the Phi Gams
Tom Rivers, Dave Wood, Doug} 42 to 6. Led by Jerry Norvell, Ted
Andrews, John Kuykendall, and! Blake and John Dykers, the SAEs
Semi Mintz enabled the Phi Delts' had. no trouble holding the Phi
to hand the Kappa Sigs their first | Gams to one TD. Ed Hadley’s score
loss. Tom Brewer seored twice for prevented the Phi Gams from being
the Kappa Sigs shut out

scoreless

Earlier in the week the Kappa) w L
Sigs beat a much improved Beta Sigma Chi 7 0
team 12:6. Touchdowns by Dick| Kappa Sig 7 l
ge ace and Tom Brewer gave Phi Delt 7 1

|the Kappa Sigs their seventh win.| SPE 6 2
Mel Armstrong interrupted a Kap ATO 4 3
pa Sig pass and then passed to Pi Kappa Phi 4 4
Ed Ervin for the only Beta score.' K. A. 3 4
The Beta’s dropped another close; SAE 3 4
one this week, losing to the Pi! Phi Gam aes 5
Kapps 1918. Ossie Keown. passed Pika l 6
to Chuck Blake for one TD and Beta 1 y
runs by and Dray €..°¢ 0 7

Ross Robinson

Jayvees Lose to Baylor

BY JIM PAGE
Last Saturday afternoon, David-, pulled themselves together and
son's Junior Varisty closed their showed, for the first time, a work-
season with a 45-13 thrashing by able offense; driving to the Raider’s
the Baylor School in Chattanooga,| one where McBryde plunged over
Tennessex |for the second Davidson  touch-

The undefeated “Red Raiders” | down
scored three times in the first} Midway in the fourth quarter,
quarter to bring on the’ deluge.| Baylor powered to its seventh and

In the second quarter, MeGuirt hit! final TD and the game ended with

ee apt can try ‘dications this contest will be one | oe to boast about but neither Barbee for a Davidson tally but| the Raiders ahead 45°13
R’ cnet citer m and should con- lof the toughest which Davidson of. any indication of the type| by this time the preps had an in-| Qutstanding for the Kittens were
” ‘apt. Cavano, or Sgt. ‘will be engaged in this season. team which they have. The reason} By OYVIND NORSTROM surmountable 32-6 lead |Neubauer, Burns and MeBryde
UALITY MILK Butts, head coach and assistant | | for this is probably because of the | Baylor opened the second half! Bob Talbert showed that his tue
Q coach, respectively. At the present! Coach Bill Dole reported early | class of opposition which they have| Thouxh greatly improving their the best eight. W&M turned UP] ino” familiar way by moving the! was still sharp by booting = ‘xtr
*1 time over 50 men are out for the! this week that he was extremely|run against. Davidson scouts have! times {rom the first meet of the with a very young team, most of length of the field tor their sixth point a. 1? after. Davide i
Mooresville team and varsity rifle team letters| pleased with the results of the|reported that the Hatters use a/season. ‘he Davidson cross country the runners freshmen, and still] oor. Minutes later the “Kittens” was penalized 15 yen sits
Cc ' will be awarded. . | sensational game of last weekend| split “T” formation quite a bit and| team hed to surrender in last Fri- proved too strong for the previous 3 ra eabaaie ssid ” SERA Norte
reamery, Inc. Plans call for six shoulder to| when Davidson defeated VMI by a/ it is certain that they will use that | day’ mgular meet with North ly undefeated Wildeat squad 1S
shoulder matches, in addition to| score of 21-7. Dole is convinced,| in Saturday's game. Stetson also has| Caroline State and William and pete Asheraft tinished in 9th "EM
ne —— several postal matches. however, that the game tomorrow/a formation called the “southwes-| Mary. [he extraordinary strong) place, best of the home team, BY JIM OVERALL.
: tern spread” which has not been|State tcum came out with 23 though breaking the old course GAMES OF NOVEMBER 5
used thus far this year, but it is| Points, followed by W&M with 42, | record set in the Duke meet earlier | Score Score
; os aa and Davidson with 70 points. Mike this fall. Also Henry Brown bet- ,
nearly praeene that they will be Shea, State, set a brilliant course | tered that time. The Harriers bet- a ” —
using this tomorrow also. These} reeorid Ltaved tibeir: < thmes with frome 30 — 2 vs bg 1 i
ee two formations will probably keep} State. who has lost only one) seconds to more then a minute, ec i ve ph State
Ahead of the game oe the Cats guessing throughout the|meect since 1949, was of course,| but the opponents were just too an took iy aoe
entire game supposed to win the meet. The | good a bie wanessee
2 8 boys that the Wolfpack ran in é LSU vs Maryland
: | The next home meet for the Mich. State vs - Purdue
Davidson scouts have reported | this race made great performances, | : : ' r ,
Davidson team is the Southern Con- N.C. State vs Boston U
Arrow fields a smart squad of sweaters, that the thing which impressed|@nd six of them finished among) ‘once late in November. The de- UNC vs So. Car.
with man-for-man superiority down them most about Stetson was the {feat now came early enough to Ohio State vs. Indiana
the line. They’re warm and soft, styled sensational passing attack which A 0 T | ( E make possible a — showing in Presbyterian vs Stetson
with exceptional taste—in Orlon or they have. “This is our main gtlgg hg — U. of So. Cal ve Seaton
lambswool, or a blend of Orlon and worry,” says Conch Dele, “so. pase | Coach Danny Miller am | climax. “as ' Forest ee jr poy
wool. It’s a smart college man who ing defense is what we emphasized| nounced that the Wildcat Bas- eeuite: Duke : ‘a ae
collects several colored sweaters. most this week during practice.”| ketball teem would begin its 1) Mike Shea, State 21:19 2
Dole says that the team as a whole} Work ovt® on Tuseday after (course record). 2) Bob DeTombe ranma
noon at 3:30. : . Encircle the winners, indicate the score, place in the box in the

from $7.9
with dress

Sleeveless from $5.00 or long-sleeved

like this Arrow plaid. Get a few of each!

CASUAL WEAR
—first in fashion

is in excellent condition. The play- |
ers who looked particularly good in|
last week's game were Campbell, |
Owen, Llewellyn, and Fagg. These |
boys will probably be seeing a lot
of action tomorrow. Belton, who is
top passer in the Southern Con-
ference, will be starting at quarter-
back.

The team left Thursday after.
noon for Florida and “we're going
down to win,” says Dole. Wildcats,
we're behind you all the way. Good
luck.

5. They’re perfect, worn
and sport shirts—

~

W&M 22:29. 3) Richard Curry,
W&M 22:31. 4) H. Walker, State
22:52. 5) F. Walker, State 22:59.
6) Don Gwynn, State 23.03. 9)
Pete Asheraft, Davidson 23:30. 11)
Henry Brown 23:44. 15) Al Elder
24:06. 17) Oyvind Norstrom 24:35.
18) John Patterson 25:01 19) Bill
Jackson 25:13. 20) Steve Huntley
25:17. 21) Knocky Page 25:32. .22)
|Gerald Wilson 25:38. 23) Henry
Griffin 25:47 25) Ray Antley 26:54:

If the race had been run on a
dual meet basis, State would have

Monday afternoon at 2:30
equipment will be issued in
the gym and pictures will be
taken.

All men interested in trying
out for the Wrestling Squad
this year are asked to report to
Coach Parker on Tuesday at
4:15 as official practice be-
gins.

Since several of last years
outstanding wrestlers have
gained a great deal of weight,

Union before 6 p. m. Friday, November 4.
=

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

the need is especially acute for (beaten Davidson 15-50, and Wil-
grapplers in the 120-140 Ib. | liam and Mary 23-27. W&M would
class. ; have defeated Davidson 20-35.

=

