SUNDAY VISITING
SCHEDULE
(Page Four)

Che Bautdsontan

1955 POLITICAL
SYMPOSIUM
(Page Two)

VOL. XLIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1955

Margot (Myra Adkins) struggles with Lesgate (Ed Hadley) as
around her throat during the rehearsals

On Wednesday evening, November 30, the curtain will
rise on “Dial ‘M’ For Murder,” the first production of the |
Red and Black Masquers 1955-56 season.

This mystery melodrama, after
a substantial run on Broadway, was
made into a very successful movie
starring Ray Milland, Grace Kelly,
and Bob Cummings.

Shortly after the opening cur-
tain, it is known to the audience
that Tony Wendice, played by
Harold Hall, is planning to murder
his wife Margot (Myra Atkins)
when he discovers that she has
had a brief affair with an Ameri-
can Television writer, Max Halliday
(George Kemmerer). Wendice’s
plan has been some six months in
the making when the curtain goes
up, and when he is ready, he calls
in a disreputable college friend,
Captain Lesgate, played by Ed Had-
ley, and blackmails him into exe-
cuting the necessary action on a
night when Wendice will have a
perfect alibi. Tony’s scheme ig
thrown askew by fate and the in-
genuity of the mild mannered In-
spector Hubbard (Tom Mann) from
Seotland Yard, assisted by Detec-
tive Thompson (Jock Reeder).

Dial “M” has a generous supply
of fingerprints wiped from glasses,
latehkeys transferred from hand-
bags, and other such hocus-pocus
from the suspense-writers’ clue
factory. An English thriller, it is

as urbane in tone as it is sound in
workmanship: an excellent host,
Mr. Knott—in terms of suspense—
always refills the audience's glass

before it is empty.

Frederich Knott—born in 1919—
like the main character in his play |
is a former tennis ‘champion, He’! ©
was a member of the tennis team) the Special Committee
at Cambridge and came to the| graphed report entitled
United States with the Oxford-} lege.”

Cambridge team to play against! The report consists of two parts:
Harvard and Yale in 1937. the first shows the present eco-

As the Davidson production goes nomic position of the faculty and
into its last week of rehearsals the | how that position has changed since
cast and crew are enthusiastic and 1939-40, and the second points out
preparations are going smoothly. ways by which the economic posi-

Director of the play, Albert Har- tion of the faculty might be im-
ris, a Senior English major, re-| proved, This is the first of two
ceived experience working with) articles written to point out some
several Masquers’ plays and as di-| of the more interesting facts con-
rector of the musical “Good News” tained therein.
last year. Between 1939-40 and 1953-54 con-

Faculty advisor for the produc-| .ymer prices rose over 92 per cent,
tion, Prof. Raymond W. Tyson has, | Oyer this same period the average
over the past few years given freely | salaries for Professors, Associate
of his time to promote drama on’ professors, and Assistant Professors
the Davidson Campus. at Davidson increased by 50.9,

Heading up the backstage crews | 62.7, and 98.8 per cent, respec:
will be: Mdugh Craig, set; Jim Pat-| tively. From this it can be seen
terson, properties; Ed Price, sound | that the real income, which takes
effects; and Bob Abernethy, light-| into account price increases, of
ing. | Professors and Associate Professors

Presentation has been scheduled | fell 20-25 per cent, while the posi-
for Wednesday, November 30 and tion of Assistant Professors  im-
Thursday, December 1 at 8:15 in proved slightly. To look at it an-
Chambers Auditorium. Admission! other way, the Professor average
will be 50 cents for all, and tickets | would have to be $7,467 instead of
may be purchased in the lobby of | $5,859 to give the same purchasing
Chambers, Everyone who wishes to! power that was held in 1939-40.
attend is assured of an evening of| since 1939, real income per
exciting entertainment. | capita in the United States has in-

Facilities of
Among Best in Nation

BY ALLAN SMYTH

Unexcelled ROTC facilities are
urged by the Davidson College mili-
tary department, which is located
on the ground floor of gleaming
new Belk Hall. The modern layout
shows great advance from the for-
mer quarters and provides ample
space for the thirteen-man depart-
mental staff to carry on admin-
istrative and teaching operations.

The new quarters include four
large classrooms, six cadre offices,
and the cadet regimental staff
headquarters.

Ultramodern visual aids grace
all four classrooms. Instructive
symbols and pictures cling to green
caagnetic blackboards. Each class-
room contains a large built in mo-
vie screen.

A highlight of the new plant is
the completely equipped NRA
standard firing range, which was
opened during Colonel Settle’s Oc-
tober 26 inspection tour. The range
is used by Davidson's crack rifle
team. :

The operations room contains all
equipment needed to prepare teach-
ing devices used in ROTC classes.
Operations officer Captain Brown
and his assistants mimeograph in-
formation, make photographic
slides, and assemble the many vis-
ual aids used in instruétion. Opera-
tions room equipment is used by
the cadre and cadets in preparing
the bulletin board displays posted

| inereased productivity of the econ
Dept. »: This means that even if one

' enjoyed the same relative economic
status in 1953 as in 1939, he still
would only be able to purchase
two-thirds of the goods and services

\that he could in 1939. Thus if a
in the Union and in Belk Hall | Professor were to be allowed a
Public information work, an im-| Proportionate share in this in-
A ; |ereased productivity, the average
portant service of the ROTC, 15| Professor’s salary, presently at $5,-
greatly aided by operations room| g59 per year, would have to be
facilities. raised not just to $7,467 but to
$12,425.

No consideration is given here
to increased income taxes. A pro-
fessor (with a wife and two chil-
dren) who earned the top salary of
$4,000 in 1939-40 paid $69.00 in
federal and state taxes, while in
1953-54 the same professor paid
$784.00.

| creased 66,4 per cent due to the

Numerous padlocks and heavy |
steel bars protect the $80,000 worth |
of government equipment used by
the ROTC department. The armory,
maintained by Sergeant First Class
Wheat, contains every light weapon
used by an infantry battalion. Four
hundred and sixty M-1 rifles valued) |, 1939 the economic position of
at $78 each make up a large part| the Davidson faculty compared
of this arsenal. Forty-seven car-| favorably with the professions of
bines each add $72 to the weapons | medicine, dentistry, law, and the
investment. | ministry as represented by four
leading Presbyterian churches in

The armory also contains a re-| Charlotte. However, in 1951, faculty
coilless rifle, a mortar worth $780, | Salaries were considerably lower
six calibre 30 machine guns, and | —

two caliber .50 machine guns. The |
cost of maintaining and cleaning Canterbury

these weapons averages $80 a se-
All Episcopalians and other in-

mester.

terested students are asked to meet
in the student lounge of the David-
son Church after Vespers on Sun-
day night, November 20. The pur-
pose of this meeting is the re-for-
mation of a Canterbury Club here
on the Davidson campus.

The Reverend J. Bryan Griswold,
priest-in-charge, St. Matthew's Epis-
copal Church and the Davidson stu-
dent chaplin will take charge of
the meeting.

Radios, public address apparatus,
and all other communications
equipment needed by an infantry
company is stored in the supply
room. Supply sergeant Brothers
fits and issues uniforms to the
cadet regiment.

Beyond the supply room, a
lounge offers deep leather chairs,
reading lamps, and an ample sup-
ply of magazines.

Tony (Harold Hall) rushes over to Lesgate and begins to search
through Lesgate’s pockets. The Red and Black Masquers will present
Dial “M” for Murder in Chambers on November 30 and Dec. |

t Presented on
D. C. Faculty Salaries

This is the first in a series of two articles, written especially
for the Davidsonian, analyzing a recently published report entitled
“Faculty Salaries At Davidson College.”

BY CLAGETT TAYLOR

At the November 3rd meeting of the Davidson College
hapter of the American Association of University Professors
on Faculty Salaries presented a mimeo-
“Faculty Salaries at Davidson Col-

than income in these other profes-

sions,
To have maintained the same rel-
ative economic status between

1939 and 1951, one’s income would
have had to rise by 198.5 per cent.
Pre-med students will be glad to
know that the average income for
physicians increased 218 per cent,
or from $4,229 to $13,432. Medi-
cine was the only one of these pro-
fessions showing a percentage in-
crease greater than 198.5.

Future college professors from
our midst will be unhappy to note
that the Davidson Professor's sal-
ary increased only 34 per cent over
the period 1939-51. It has been
suggested in the past that college
professors in chureh-related col-
leges should be paid at about the
same rate as ministers in the bet-
ter city churches. In 1951 the min-
isters’ salaries of four leading Pres-
pyterian churches in Charlotte
averaged at $7,792, a 48 per cent
increase over 1939. However, this
figure does not include tax-free in-

(Continued On Page Four)

Cercle Francais Adds
Six to Membership

The welcoming of six new mem-
bers highlighted the second meet-
ing of the Cercle Francais, which
was held at the home of Dr. Gol-
diere on November 15.

The meeting was opened by the
president, Fred Myers, and after
the minutes and roll call, there
followed the initiation of the new
members. As part of their initia-
tion, each of these six had a part
in presenting the program. Bob
Beall gave a synopsis of La Sym-
phonie Pastorale by Andre Gide,
and this was followed by a very
delightful little play, Les Trois
Aveugles (The Three Blind Men),
by Messieurs Fairman Cumming,
Jimmy Jones, Curtis Patterson,
Randy Daniel, and Bob Sloan, The
president then welcomed the new
members into the Cercle, after
which he gave a reading—Personne
Ne M’Ecoute.

Then followed a game, directed

by the president. Each member was ||

allowed to look at 26 articles on a

table, and then, out of sight of the}

table, he tested his memory by
listing as many as possible of the
objects. M. Charles Robinson

The Davidson College Business-Economics Association has
announced that the first full-membership meeting of the cur-

ss Brown and Band
Here Tuesday Night

Noted Economist Will
\Speak at Bus-Eco Meet RECOMMEND "BAND OF RENOWN”

BY LLOYD CHAPIN

Les Brown and his Band

KOONCE, ANDERSON, GARVEY ALL

of Renown, rated number one

rent school year is to be held Monday night, November 21, at band in the nation by Metronome, World, and Down Beat maya-

8 p. m. in the Ballroom of the

The guest speaker for this meet-
ing will be Dr. Hershal L. Macon,
noted Southern economist who now
holds a position with the economics
staff of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority. The subject of Dr. Macon’s
talk will be the TVA, and a ques-
tion and answer session will be in-
corporated as a part of the pro
gram.

Dr. Macon received his BS from
Guilford and his MA from Haver-
ford. In 1932 he achieved his Doe
torate at the University of North
Carolina. Before joining TVA, he
was professor of Economies at Au
burn. Since entering into the TVA
organization, he has been chiefly
concerned with the analysis and
appraisal of payments in lieu of
taxes by the Federal Government
Being well acquainted with the
overall objectives and programs of
the TVA, Dr. Macon is well quali
fied to present an interesting and
informative talk on this huge Fed
eral project.

Following the in

meeting, an

At Sunday Vespers

Dr. James MeDowell Richards,
Moderator of the General Assembly
of the Presbyterian Church, U. S
and President of Columbia Theo
logical Seminary, will deliver the
Vespers message Sunday night, No
vember 20, He is President of the
Trustees of Davidson College

Dr. Richards attended MeCallie
School before éntering Davidson
College, where he received his B.A
in 1922 and was later awarded the
D.D. degree. He holds an M.A. from
Princeton, B.A. and M.A. from Ox
ford University,- where he was an
Oxford Scholar, and a B,D. from
Columbia Theological Seminary
He was ordained in 1928 and has
held pastorates at Clarkesville,
Nocoochee, and Helen, Georgia,
and the First Presbyterian Church
in Thomasville, Georgia. He has
been serving as Professor of Prac
tical Theology at Columbia since
1932, in addition to his present du
ties as President of the Seminary

He has been: a member of the
Executive Committee of National
Churches of Christ in the U.S.A
Moderator of the Synod of Georgia,

Vice President of the Federal
Council! of Churches of Christ in
America. and President of — the

Presbyterian Educational Associa
tion of the South. He is currently
a member of the Permanent Com
mittee on Christian Education,
Presbyterian Church, U. S,, and
Chairman of the Board of Church
Extension, Presbyterian Church,
U. S

A mémber of Kappa Alpha Or-
der, Dr. Richards is also a mem-
ber of the Rotary Club, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa.

proved his scholarship and erudi-
tion by listing 23 objects from
memory, thus winning the grand
prize—a candy bar.

Next, Jacques Delpech gave a dis-|
course on several modern French}
songs, and, with the gracious ac-|
Herb Russell, |
rendered four selections vecally. |
Afterwards, the members joined)

companiment of

in

The evening was brought to al

close with the serving of refresh-}
ments, and everyone decided that

thé pineapple upside-down cake}

should be duplicated at the next
meeting.

‘Local Music. Masters

College Union.
formal discussion period will be| fall concert

held, at which refreshments will| Phe sale of tickets for the Les
be served, All members are urgéd| Brown concert is going better than
to attend | expected. We are anticipating great

~ | things of this concert.” These op-
| timistic words from Phil Koonce,
|president of the Interfraternity |
| Council, represent the attitude of |
| much of the student body toward |

Davidsonian Editors
‘Mend Conference

the fall program by the Band of
This Thursday, Friday, and Satur- | Renown
day four members of the Davidson. Brown's concert will begin at
ian staff are attending the Asso-| 9.99 p. m. on Tuesday, November
‘iated. C iate’ Press natio ty woes
oh Pro oi - . national} 99° and will -b. held in Johnston
} ag conference at Detroit, Michi-! Gymnasium if the present rate of
maltl ‘
ticket sales continues. Tickets are
rhe four members. Dick More- $2.00 in advance and $2.25 at the
head, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim tees bas
Batten, and Leon Howell, are guests
Perrin Anderson, student body

zines, will arrive on the Davidson campus Tuesday night for a

the fall concert, He has one of the
swingingest bands in the country
and some of his side men are the
best in thé business.”’

Koonce believes Les
Brown's music will satisfy every
musical taste on the campus. Mem-
bers of his pand have been collected
from the best of Stan Kenton, Ray
Anthon, Woody and
Charlie Barnett.

In an effort at heavy, yet wide-
spread, publicity, the Interfrater-
nity Council has arranged for an-
nouncements concerning the con-

also

Herman,

of Ford Motors, Chrysler Motors,
and General Motors while they are
in Detroit. On Thursday all the
guests will be taken on a personally
guided tour through River Rouge
Ford Plant.

Two well-known speakers who
will address the group are Max
Schulman, Pulitzer Prize winning
journalist, and Charles F. Ketter-)
ing, Vice-President in charge of re
search for General Motors

At the conference numerous dis-|

president, observed, “The LF.C, is
doing a fine job in bringing the

the Davidson campus. Here’s hop- |
ing everyone will come out and)
enjoy a fine musical evening.”

John Garvey, Pavidson's leading
| jazz authority, expressed enthusi
lasm over the Band of Renown. “I
was very glad to hear that Les}
| Brown was going to be here for

best of America’s popular bands to |

cert on all the major Charlotte
radio stations, also WBTV, and
has sent press releases to the

Charlotte Observer and Charlotte
News. Tickets are on sale in all
the cities in this area.

This concert will be one of the

finest entertainment opportunities

jof the year for Davidson students

In the words of the upperclassmen,
all are urged to “be there!”

oc

cussions will be held for the various |
parts of the paper and the year-)
book, such as news features, sports |
| business, ete. Last year 325 dele-|'
gates attended from thirty-two!
states, the District of Columbia, |
and Hawaii

Give Public Concert

The Davidson College Depart: |
ment of Music will present a stu }
dent recital on Friday. evening, |
November 18 at 8:15 p. m. in}
Chambers Auditorium, Participat-| _
ing will be pianists Wayne Bur- |
zess, John Garvey, Earle Lewis and |
Harry Wells; singers Walter Bul-|

js

lock, Hugh Craig and Grier Davis; |
and organists Hadley Hunt, B, B.| i
Miller, and Harry Wells ee

This is the first student recital
of the current These re-
citals are designed to give the ap-
| plied musie students experience in
public performance, and to allow
these and other interested students
to expand their knowledge of mu-
| sical literature

The recital is open to the pub-
lic without charg:

Sigma Pi Sigma Frat
Adds Three Members

At the regular meeting of Sigma
| Pi Sigma, honorary physics. frater-
nity, the following men were re-
ceived into membership: Henry C It was one of those fine and rare
Griffin, John M. Hunter, and Ralph| occasions when a real degree of
A. Long, These new members were | intimacy between performers and
selected on the basis of their in-| listeners is achieved. The first num-
lterest. and. outstanding work in| ber, a Concerto for two violins by
physics and related fields ‘ Vivaldi, played by Betty Gehring

After the initiation ceremony a|and Doris West, with Mr. Gehring
program consisting of filmstrips on | at the piano, was a delight to hear.
the atom was given by Professor} The Mesdames Gehring and West
) H. E. Fulcher. For the next meet | performed with technical mastery
| ing the society will tour the WBTV | and with zest.
building in Charlotte to study the| It was the sort of composition
technical aspects of television | which most exactly characterizes
: - might almost say, defines—
chamber music as such, and Vival-
di seemed wonderfully and strange-

eason.,

their recent television shows,

college Chamber Music Guild |
Union Ballroom.

one

Rare Maps On Display
In College Library

The interesting and valuable col-| a very real and pleasant experience
Hection of original colonial maps) in which all shared,

of the Carolinas belonging to Dr,| The second number, Bach's Can
W. P. Cumming are now on display tata No. 56, sung by Thomas Holt
lin the Seminar Hall of the College; with the accompaniment of the
Library. These maps were re-| String Quartet and Frank West,
cently displayed in the Union and| oboist, was a somewhat more diffi-
Dr. Cumming has consented to per-| cult piece, and was given a heavier-
mit a selection from these to re-| handed treatment and a less subtle
main in the Library for some! one, due perhaps to a certain strain
months longer. Dr. Cumming is|on the part of the performers to
generally recognized as the out-
standing authority on colonial maps |
in the South.

Holt sang well and exactly through-
out, though the first aria was a bit

ly in context at the Union. It was!

cope with technical problems. Mr. |

Les Brown js shown above talking with Bob Hope before one of

Critic Reviews
Guild’s Concert

BY FRED MYERS
A good and goodly number from our own and neighbor-
ing communities attended the concert given by the Inter-

ast Friday night in the College

strained, and, we felt, unduly hea
vy. The  recitative how
ever, was admirably rendered, with
fine, poetic sensitivity. In the fol
lowing portions, his voice was pre
cise but lame, and, inasmuch as
concerns expression, unwieldy and
plodding, On the whole it was, non-
theless, a pleasant privilege to hear
Bach, thus ably performed

There was no intermission § at
this point in the program, when one
would perhaps have been welcome.
There followed a string quartet by
Haydn, a bit uneven in spots, but
all in all most enjoyable—not so
enjoyable, however, as the final
number, Ravel's Mother Goose
Suite for two pianos, which was
played by Philip Gehring and John
Satterfield. This was beautifully in-
terpreted, with a subtlety of ex-
pression and warmth of feeling that
were at once delightful and en-
gaging. The third piece, “Little
Ugly One,” was, in spite of cymbal
effects supplied by high school
|homecomers outside, lovely, It is
to be hoped we will have more of

| these evenings in the near future.

section

