The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ... Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Maurice Crouse

Tom Warlick
Managing Editors Jim Batten,

Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor Leon Howell
Copy Editor -. John T. Harmon

Feature Editor Watt McCain
Staff Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments John Trask
File Clerk Bob Beall

Member of the Associsted Collegiate
Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two Friday. September 23, 1955

Some Vital Decisions

“What’s your major? Richmond—
why I used to know someone in Virginia.
What profs do you have? Have some food
—I'm sure you’re hungry.” This is the
ever familiar, ever recurrent jargon of
Rush Week. Out of this panorama of
Rush Week—the cakes, and cokes, green
punch and Confederate ties, pictures of
alumnus I. Wuzza Bigwheel, blaring com-
bos and speeches that would melt the
Sphinx—come many reactions and results.
Some catch colds, some consume too much
of the ever present pastries, some pledge,
some go to class, and some just want to
go to sleep, regardless of where they are
standing. This is all a part of college tradi-
tion, a time which is long talked about,
remembered and cherished in the partici-
pants’ minds,

Within this atmosphere of enjoyable
confusion, however, there is the inevita-
ble agony of decision. For the fraternity
man, it becomes an impossible task to
meet and remember over a hundred
rushees. He is faced with the crucial
criterea of selection, made more extreme
by the press of time. For the rushee it is
likewise a critical moment of decision, per-
haps his first large decision of college. life.

TO THE RUSHEE

The following are tips that have been
in circulation in some form for many
years but which merit inspection again
because of their provocative nature and
present timeliness.

Make your decisions on the basis of
your own situation and honest feelings.
If you are planning to follow your room-
mate and his advice through the next four
years, you. are apt to lead a narrow and
limited existence here at Davidson.

If you do not receive a bid—do not
take it to heart. Men rushed are for the
most part friends or relatives of fraternity
men among alumni and boys acquainted
with members of the fraternity before
their arrival at Davidson.

Some of Davidson’s strongest student
leaders in the past have been overlooked
during the first week. You may be bid any-
time during the college year. .

If you decide not to join a fraternity,
be assured that there is a fine group of
men, whether participants in the local
social club or solely in the Union activities,
which will heartily welcome you and of
which you can become a vital and con-
tributing part.

If you are presented with several
choices on Saturday morning, then in-
clude these among your checkpoints.
Look at the men—not their national
record, past history. or 2” orange rugs.
Look especially at the class just above
you, while observing the decisions of
your own classmates for they will form
your special group of associates—your fu-
ture brothers in the bond. Look at the in-
terests, ideals, and spirit of the chapter
and its members. Check the type of rush-
ing program, the sincerity and forthright-
ness of its presentation. Check also the
group of rushees down with you at the
houses this past week.

Once- pledged do not narrow your col-
lege life to an acquaintanceship with your
brothers or pledge brothers alone. Don't
sit smugly in your own little clique; for
if you do you will miss many valuable
friends and influences while hurting the
reputation of your fraternity.

TO THE RUSHER

During this week you have displayed
with smiles and similes the best and most
outstanding aspects of your fraternity and
its brotherhood. In your talks, singing,
scrapbooks, and literature your organiza-
tion has unfolded before the expectant
rushees. You have felt a very close bond
of brotherhood and spirit during these
few hectic days. In selling your. organiza-
tion, its life and membership, you have
put forth your best efforts. Do not now
disappoint your pledges. Uphold the char-

acter of your rushing program throughout
the coming year, instilling in your future
brothers that feeling of Rush Week which
has contributed so much to college life in
the past. Remember often what you have
said and thought during .this week and
let those thoughts stimulate and give pur-
pose to your membership in such an or-
ganization. Finally, consider it a challenge
to live up to the spirit, ideas, and unselfish
brotherhood of Rush Week in carrying
forth those principles and ideals for which
your organization was founded and by
which its most outstanding alumni have
lived. —R.H.M.

Progress Must Go On

The month of October will be high-
lighted by two events of great import to
the future of Davidson College, the dedica-
tion of the new and magnificent W. H.
Belk Hall and the ground-breaking for
the splendid new structure being built to
replace the recently razed Rumple Dormi-
tory.

At present the dormitories now in
use (with the exception of Georgia) pro-
vide adequate housing for the vast ma-
jority of the student body with two men
being quartered in each room. With the
completion of the new dormitory which
will house ninety men, the rooming situa-
tion will be excellent, perhaps even allow-
ing for an expansion of the student body
without overcrowding.

College officials have shown keen
judgement in removing the antiquated and
hazardous Rumple Dormitory and provid-
ing for its replacement before Georgia
Dormitory is removed. Although this will
occasion some delay in completing the
landscaping of the new quadrangle formed
by Chambers Building and Belk Dormi-
tory, the accommodations in Georgia are
much superior to those of Rumple Dormi-
tory. As the new dormitory will not be
completed until next summer, creating an
unsightly situation, a delay of one year
in completing the quadrangle will not
be serious.

Davidson College will open its doors
in the fall of 1956 with the most complete
and modern dormitory situation in its his-
tory. A remodeled Watts Dormitory would
leave little or nothing to be desired, pro-
vided the student body is retained at its
present size.

Brighter prospects, however, are visi-
ble in the future. With the easing of the
rooming situation, college officials will
be able to direct. their attention to other
long neglected projects. These include
the restoration of the old quadrangle
under plans adopted several years ago by
the Board of Trustees and the construc-
tion of a new fine arts building to house
the music, art, speech, and drama depart-
ments. Proposals are to build this struc-
ture in either the area between the Col-
lege Church and the library or in the loca-
tion of the present Cardboard Village.
Another long range plan calls for the con-
struction of a new library or enlargement
of the present building.

Davidson must progress The adminis-
tration and trustees have made Davidson
attractive by providing superior housing
for all of its students. However, they must
not stop here. They have a duty to see
that every department is adequately
housed and provided with needed facili-
ties. The music department has been
shuffled hit or miss into three antiquated
buildings in the 6ld quadrangle. No re-
hearsal or practice rooms are provided
for the speech and drama departments.
The art department is likewise housed in
makeshift quarters.

The book stock in the Davidson library
is woefully inadequate for a college with
the prestige of Davidson. We have fallen
far behind other colleges of like size and
wealth. Moreover, the book stock cannot
be increased to the optimum unless the
capacity of the present library is in-
creased.

These problems form a_ challenge
which must not be ignored. It is the duty
of the college officials to see that these
glaring deficiences are corrected at the
earliest possible time.—T.W.W.

BUSINESS MANAGER... Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager _. Bob Carmichael
Subscription...

Warner Hall
Bob Majors,
Stan Miller
....Tony Guiles,
Bill Bondurant

REPACSENTED COR watTIONAL ADVERTICING OY

National AdvertisingService, inc.
College Publishers Representative

420 MavisoN Ave. New Yoan. N.Y.

Curcaso > Sostom © Los ASGELES © SAm Panncisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Yeer
Entered as second class matter at the
Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the
Act of March 3, 1879.

Offices in David Ovens College Union,
Davidson College

Circulation.____.....
Business Staff...

Thriving Fraternities
Near Century Mark

By PHIL KUKURA

Davidson College has never been
known as a party school, but stu-
dents who bemoan the lack of
social life on the campus today
would be amazed when they con-
sider the social conditions at David-
son in the past.

The choice confronting rushees
Saturday morning will be one of
the most important decisions to be
faced in cach student's life at Da-
vidson, for by it he will be choos-
ing the group of men with whoin
he will be most closely associated
socially in his undergraduate days.
In this choice, he will be following
his Davidson forbears, who in vary-
ing numbers for almost one hun-
dred years have sought to band
themselves together in fraternal
groups.

According to the original
authorization for the establishment
of Davidson College by Concord
Presbytery, the school was to be
a Manual Labor Seminary, with
students earning a substantial part
of their educational expenses by
working in the fields owned by
the college during their leisure
hours. Within a few years, how-
ever, this. plan was discarded and
a more conventional system of
tuition payments was instituted.

A few years after the college
opened its doors in 1837 the
Eumenean and Phitantnropic Lit-
erary Societies were organized, and
for over a half a century they
served as the social activity on the
campus. Their membership in-
cluded almost the entire student
body for many years. The societies
represented the first organized
student government, it being with-
in their province to suspend stu-
dents from the college for various
infractions of the rules, and in
addition sponsored parties, recep-
tions, and socials, at which their
ladies were the guests of honor.

The first fraternity was organized
on the campus in 1858, and another
in 1859. Neither had any formal
acknowledgement from the faculty
or administration, and ih 186),
when the War Between the States

began to draw great numbers of
students away from their academic
pursuits, both chapters became
dormant. There was a brief resur-
rection of interest in them after
the war, but soon afterwards the
faculty banished all secret organ-
izations at Davidson because of’
the activity of the Ku Klux Klan.
Various attempts were made in
the years following to found fra-
ternal organizations, but all proved
short-lived. Not until 1880 was any
chapter able to establish itself
successfully, and following its or-
ganization, a number of older, dor.
mant chapters were revived and
new ones established.

Although fraternities were well
established on the campus by the
1890's, there were still frequent at-
tempts by non-fraternity students
via petitions to the faculty and
trustees to have them abolished.
No serious action was taken against
them; yet it was not until the early
1900’s that. fraternities became the
center of the student social life
which they are today. The literary
societies had continued to domi.
nate the scene.

In the early teens of the cen.
tury, after the creation of the Pan
Hellenic Council, forerunner of to-
day's Interfraternity Council, the
fraternities began to hold the inter-
fraternity dance weekends, al-
though at that time they had to
be held in Charlotte and culled
“entertainments,” the word
“dance” being an anathema to the
church college.

With the coming of the Second
World War and its liberalizing ten-
dencies on the entire country, Da-
vidson too underwent drastic
changes. Returning veterans found
the college ready to accept the
interfraternity weekends as “dance
weekends,” and willing to have
them on the campus itself.

Two new fraternities have been
added to the campus since the war.
and the future continues to look
bright for the fraternity system at
Davidson.

Cold War Propaganda Increase

(ACP)—Even though a lot of
college students don’t know much
or anything about SEATO, one of
the important bulwarks against
Communism, ACP has found that
they have some definite ideas about
certain things the United States
should do in the “cold war,” or
whatever it is.

For one thing, they think the
United States should do a better
job of putting out propaganda than
it has been doing.

The Associated College Press
asked them:

It has been stated by certain
sources that the United States is
losing the cold war because the
Russians are producing more and
better propaganda. Regardless of
whether this statement is true or
not, do you think the United States
should spend more money on over-
seas libraries, Voice of America
radio stations, the Point Four pro-
gram, ete?

And here is how they answered:
66% say YES, we should spend
more. ,
say NO, we should not spend

more.
10% have no opinion.

Not only did most student want
more propaganda, but they had
very definite opinions about the
matter—one way or the other.

A junior at Ferris Institute. Big
Rapids, Mich., declares that “the
only way-to win the cold war is to
fight the ‘Commies’ on a common
ground, more propaganda.”

On.the other hand, a freshman
coed at Western College for
Women in Oxford, Ohio, feels that

24%

Sought by Nation’s Collegians

the United States should spend
more on “food and other positive
aid than on propaganda.”

Another says “Yes, if it really
works.” while still another states
that “It’s a better resort than en-
gaging in an open third world
war,” and adds that “we can afford
it (propaganda).”

“If the United States is losing
the cold war it is because we aren't
as interested in propaganda as the
Russians,” comments a freshman
coed at Southern Methodist Uni-
versity.

A junior at Adrian College in
Adrian, Michigan, says that he feels
“educational propaganda will show
its mark in the long run.”

A student at Colorado A & M
adds a moral note to his comment
by saying that “definite control
should exist on the type of propa-
ganda we use.”

A sophomore at Richmond Pro.
fessional Institute, Richmond. Vir.
ginia, adds a philosophital touch.
He believes that “one combats an
ideology with ‘ideas’ not with
force. The spoken word, spoken
well, will win the cold war." Or,
the pen is mightier than the
sword!

It is interesting to note, on a
question like this, how closely col-
lege opinion runs to that of the
oldsters. Another polling organiza-
tion checked adult opinion not long
ago and found much the same
thing. On the question of spend-
ing more money on propaganda,
they found that 67% of the popu-
lation in favor, 20% disagreed and
13% had no opinion.

From The Christian Century

Dear Editor:

Now that the colleges are soon
to open the doors of the stadium
and the gymnasium and possibly a
classroom or two to the incoming
hordes of students, it is a. good
time to give light again to a little
classic on college life. This is a
paraphrase of the Parable of the
Good Samaritan in terms of
present-day college life. It was
written many years ago by Charles
W. Gilkey, then dean -of the Rocke-
feller Memorial Chapel at the Uni-
versity of Chicago. It deserves con-
tinual reprinting. Here it is:

“A certain Freshman went from
home to college and he fell among
critics who sald that he had no

style, that his manners were awk-
ward, and that he had an un-
attractive personality. Then they
stripped him of his self-confidence,
his enthusiasm and his courage,
and departed, leaving him hurt,
lonely and half-dead.

“And when the Seniors saw it,
they were amused, saying, ‘What a
good job the Sophomores are do-
ing on that Freshman’; and they
passed by on the other side.

“In like manner the Juniors also,
when they saw it, smiled and said,
‘Yea, verily, for he hath not the
making of a fraternity man’; and
they passed by on the other side.

“But a certain special student,

.

SCOPFERS And
PEeTr TION SIENERS

AMOUS LAST WORDS: “TLL PROVE THAT THE IVY ISNT ALL THATS © ° “4.
HOLDING UP RUMPLE.”

“A handsome new dormitory building, of brick trimmed in granite, containing rooms for sixty
students, has been recently completed. Each room has two large windows, three transoms, and « special
ventilating shaft. There are six large bathrooms in the building, which is heated throughout by steam.
No expense has been spared to give abundant light, air, and ventilation, with many conveniences.”
—DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN (June, 1904),

Philosophical View of Progress

Progress is progress is pro-
gress.—Gertrude Pebble.

Tradition bows to progress
once again... as venerable
Rumple Dormitory is razed.—
—Davidson College News Bu-
reau,

Every Davidson student who has
ever delved deeply into the tech.
nique of composition knows some-
thing of the importance of an in-
terest-compelling opening sentence.
The above perversion of Miss
Stoin’s comment on a rose is’ an
example of how a quotation may be
used for this purpose. Now some
writers are so addicted to the use
of quotations at the head of their
essays that tidbits from Bhaga-
vad-Gita are just as likely to ap-
pear as Poor Richard’s most ven-
erable saw about the virtues of
frugality. My addiction goes
much further than this—I propose
to dedicate this entire article to
an examination of quotations ap-
plicable to the recent razing of
Rumple.

- Obviously all these quotations
must be concerned with progress.

By MAURICE CROUSE

“AIL progress begins with a
crime.” What crime? The grand
jury finds no probable cause and
the demolition squad is absolved
of all complicity in a crime against
either man or nature. Its actions
is rather to be compared to that
of the compassionate cowboy who
shoots his horse after its usefulness
is ended. Case dismissed. .

Nietzsche is more to the point.
“Every step forward is made at
the cost of mental and physical
pain to someone.” Truly, this man
hath the words of wisdom. Those
who shared the amenities of the
‘Night, air and ventilation’ and
Victorian plumbing and tilted stair-
ways and falling ceilings of Rumple
during its 53 years of existence,
must have felt more than the com-
mon pangs of pity upon seeing
the axe laid to its roots. But
Nietzsche himself would remind us
that the suffering puts us on a
higher level of living and apprecia-
tion—thus preparing us for Belk.

“All progress is based upon a
universal innate desire on the part
of every organism to live beyond
its income.” There are indications

that Samuel Butler had an inkling
of the truth here. Who can deny
that the replacement of a 60-person
dormitory with one housing over
300 is a rather large financial
jump? And there are those who,
looking at the annual slice taken
from their pocketbooks, would
swear to the truth of the quota.
tion. Be that as it may, we pru-
ceed to the final quotation.
“What we call ‘progress’ is the
exchange of one nuisance for un-
other nuisance.” It must be sadly
noted that Havelock Ellis, while
competent within his own field, is
hopelessly astray when his com-
ments pertain to Davidson College.
Even the most fervent partisan of
Rumple must admit that Belk Hall
is hardly a nuisance. Yet who are
we to declare that Belk is the ne.
plus ultra of dormitory construc-
tion? Perhaps we are standing on
the edge of a brave new world
which will bring even more amaz-
ing things to us. While exulting
in the hugeness and modern quali-
ties of the building, we must pay
heed to these words of wisdom,
“This too shall pass away .. ”

“Bats on the third floor ..... the “King of Rumple” terrifying freshmen et 3 am... ...
trying to make a bookcase stand upright on that warped flooring ..... watching helplessly as the
ants marched down the wire by which we had suspended the cake box from the ceiling... . . but
cheery winter evenings when we studied late after heat had been cut off at 10 0 ‘clock... .. but
most of all, those crazy, crary slanting steps, that left you feeling like a cow grating on the moun-
tainside."—From | REMEMBER RUMPLE (Anonymous).

as he went about, came where the
Freshman was, and when he saw
the Freshman he was moved with
compassion, and came to him and
bound his wounds, pouring in
sympathy and understanding; and

he took the Freshman to his room
and set him on his feet again, and
brought him into his own circle,
and was a friend to him.

“Which of these, thinkest thou,
proved a neighbor to him that fell

among the critics? Go and do thou
likewise”
College papers please copy!
Yours,

SIMEON STYLITES.
