Sport Shorts

— BY —

LEON HOWELL

While most of the local clan slept off the effects of rush
week, the first real crisp days of fall slipped in. On last Mon-
day the chilling wind swept the hair and rippled the clothes
of “Pete” Whittle as he stood on the Freshman football field
and surveyed the golf course.

To one side the frosh football squad was popping leather
under the tutelage of Jim Fasul. On down the field a fraternity
was practicing flicker ball, while from the tennis courts came
the dull thud of catgut against the thinly covered rubber of the
ball. Coach Whittle stood still, oblivious to the action about
him or the cold seeping into his scantily clad body. His whole
concentration was directed toward his cross country team as
they struggled around the tortuous route assigned them.

“Those guys have to work and work hard,” he stated,
never taking his eyes off the athletes as they trotted over a hill
in the distance. ‘Lots of sweat, lots of effort without any real
reward.” With increasing interest I observed. About twenty
fellows sprinted and jogged over six miles of rough terrain,
after a long session of calisthenics designed to loosen them up.

His words came back to me as I observed this in all its
grueling facets. What was it that compelled these men to push
themselves to a state of exhaustion each day, knowing that
even on the days of their meets the campus would be indiffer-
ent to them and how they fared?

If your name were “Pete” Ashcraft, then it might be a
different matter, because you would be good enough to win
the conference championship and therein would lie your re-
ward. But you're not and yet you persist in spending yourself
in this manner. I wonder just what it is that drives you on?

This same spirit pervades in our athletic scene as a whole.
Don Cockell, on guts alone, took that terrible beating from
“Rocky” Marciano before he succumbed. Jackie Robinson,
whose days of fame are over, keeps fighting solely on spirit.
“Country” Slaughter at 38 hustles like a rookie of 20 at all
times and still turns in creditable performances.

Love of the ideals of sport and pride in displaying courage
drove the above mentioned and myriads of others like them to
efforts beyond that which might have been expected of them.

Perhaps that is one reason why America is still perched
at the top of the heap. Courage born under fire and pride have
been instilled into each of her offspring, primarily through the
sport’s picture. If it is a rationalization on my part to justify
our national emphasis on games, it is one that I like to make
and it is also one in which I believe.

As 1 mounted the hill going toward my room, where the
wind did not blow and where I could relax, 1 turned back to
them. Coach Whittle was there and, while I watched, they be-
gan the course again. As they went they seemed to be “trail-
ing clouds of glory.” I was proud of them and what they stood
for. A sense of shame swept me for my own tendency to take
the easy way out and for my failure to support these valiant
representatives of Davidson College.

INTERFRATERNITY
PLANS ANNOUNCED

By BILL PITSER

“Wait ‘till next year” is always, promote more interest in the con-
the cry of the teams who didn't | tests by using more men in the
win the ones they wanted. In Da-| effort to win. Also he asked that
vidson's intramural sports program | they not keep boys out of varsity
one frequently hears this cry. It|/sports to participate in the intra-
is this spirit of competition which mural program.
is the main element in the intra- The sports managers elected to
mural program. have the following sports in the

Under the leadership of Coach program this year: tag football.
Whittle and with the full support wrestling, swimming, handball,
of the new athletic director, Tom ‘track, basketball, softball, volly-
Scott, the 1955-56 intramural pro-/ ball and tennis. All of these events
gram appears to be headed for! are round-robin, with the excep-
another successful and beneficial tion of tennis, which is played on
year. an elimination basis.

Wednesday nignt at the sports| The sports program opens Mon-
manager’s meeting, Coach Whittle|day at 4:00 p. m. with the Phi
reminded those present that the|Delts playing Sigma Chi, ATO vs
object of the whole program is to| SAE, and Pi KAPP playing Pi Gam.
provide competitive sports to the | Now let's make like an alligator
largest number of boys possible. | and drag tail down to support your

He urged the sports managers toj team.

CATS ON
THE RADIO

An unique event is taking place
in the life of Davidson sports to-
night. WIST in Charlotte has asked
Publicity Director Dick McKee to
appear on its sport’s show led by
Larry Keith. Keith, an outstanding
sportscaster, plans to devote most
of his 6:45 program to Davidson for
the next four Friday evenings.

On subsequent Friday nights he
has plans to interview the coach-
es and perhaps some of the play-
ers. This “Davidson Night” feature
is an excellent opportunity for
more people to hear something
about the ball club here.

Since these interviews should be
extremely interesting to the Col-
lege as well as informative, the fol-
lowing schedule of broadcasts is in-
cluded. Each of them begins at
6:45.

Friday, September 30.
Friday, October 7.
Friday, October 14.
Friday, October 21.

A SALUTE

(From Sports Magazine)

One of the most exciting college
football games we have seen in the
last ten years was played by two
teams that would never have rank-
ed in the top 150, in a stadium that
consisted of some weather-beaten
wooden bleachers propped against
a colorful New England hillside.
We don’t recall the name of the
player who scored the winning
touchdown in the last 15 seconds;
his name would mean something
to his classmates but he never
made all New-England or Little All.
America. Yet he provided us with
one of the greatest thrills we have
had watching football games.

But these small colleges — and
there are hundreds of them — pro-
vide as many thrills to as many
fans as do the relatively few big
time teams that dominate the na-
tional scene. And these little fel-
lows are just as important to foot-
ball.

Probably they are more impor-
tant. They come a lot closer to re-
flecting the spirit in which the
game was originated in this coun-
try. Football was once designed to
be played by students simply for

the exercise and fun they got out|, , , on.

of it, remember?

NEW STUDENT
PROGNOSTICATIONS

ALENDA LURK OB)

The Bavidsonian

GRTA LCIBERTAS

JAYVEES OFF
TO FINE START

—————

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1955

PAGE FOUR

Locals Slight Favorites
On Past Performance

BY NED

The first Southern Conference
test of the year comes this Satur-
day when Davidson's red and black
Wildcats engage the up and com-
ing Citadel Bulldogs at Richard-
son Field. The thirtieth meeting of
the two conference rivals will be
the first of three crucial home
games facing the Wildcats. After
an idle week, only in the sense that
Davidson had an open date, the
Dole men face Presbyterian and
Washington and Lec after the Cit-
adel battle before taking to the
road the latter part of October.

It was an important week in the
Wildcat camp as Coach Dole sought
to strengthen his running’ attack
as well as put some life into the
key positions up front. namely,
guard and tackle in the second
platoon. Don Campbell, a_high-
stepping lad from Salisbury, slip-
ped into the right half spot on
the first team as a result of his
opening performance against Ca-
tawba. Additional strength would
be felt if Bill Rowland shukes off
his injury before game time.

Don Comer, with two T.D.’s in his
pocket already this year, turned sn
some beautiful work against the
Indians and will be considered for
a starring spot again this time.
Dyke Little and Dick Belton have
been waging a personal battle for
the number one Quarterback spot

in practice this past week. The. Da-
vidson aerial attack which picked
up 212 yards in the opening game
will be a potent factor against the

Drink
‘M

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery, Inc.

PAYNE
Cadets.

Tom Cutting, the All-Stater from
Fort Smith, Arkansas is now a third
String signal caller and a pretty
fair football tosser in his own
right.. With Harley Smith and Ken
Conger supplying the power at full-
back, the Cat squad appears ready
to meet what should prove to be
a tough Citadel outfit.

The consensus of opinion of the| -

coaches, particularly Coach Clem-
ments who scouted them, is that
Citadel is making rapid strides on
the way back. Gen. Mark Clark,
who intends to see Citadel become

one of the powers of the nation,
brought in a new coach and _ he in
turn procurred some outstanding
prospects. Better balanced than
last year. they are big and tough
in the line, and faster in the back-

CATS TANGLE WITH CITADEL TOMORROW

Questions Solicited |\Wildkittens Victorious
In Year’s First Encounter

Those students who are interest-
ed in the Davidson sport’s pro-
gram might like to question some
of the policy behind the moves
made or to make an observation
about some phase of the system.
The Sport's Staff welcomes such
inquiries or contribution. In all

probability they would go into
print. If any are so inclined, please
contact or write the Sport’s Editor
in care of the Davidsonian.

NOTICE

Coach Danny Miller announces
he would like for all fresh-
men and upper classmen interest-
ed in basketball for the 1955-56
season to report Tuesday, October
4, in the Gym at 4:00 p. m.

All boys interested in managing
report to Jerry Helms, October 4,
4:00 in Gym.

Last Thursday afternoon the Da-

vidson Wildkittens opened their
season with an impressive 27-6 vic-
tory over the J.V.’s of Appalachian
College. The Jr. Apps were big and
mature but Coach Jim Fasul’s
charges played it like “big cats”
and were ‘a little too tough and
speedy for the boys from the moun-
tains.

The first half was al] defense.
Time and again Davidson and Ap-
palachian runners were stopped
for little or no gain. While the
Davidson line led by Stancil, Wil-
son, Voigt and Edwards was
“cocking” App backs, beautiful
punts by Barbee and Woodmansee
were keeping the mountaineers in
their own territory. Only twice did
Appalachian seem to threaten. The

first drive was stopped when Tom

field, Cutting intercepted a pass on the
DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK ‘EM
Phil Bubba Ken Hobby Doug
Koonce ; Martin Conger Cobb Oldenburg
Citadel over Davidson Davidson Davidson Davidson Davidson
Duke over Tennessee Duke Duke Duke Duke
Clemson over Georgia Georgia Clemson Georgia Georgia
Ga. Tech over S. M. U. Ga. Tech Ga. Tech Ga. Tech Ga. Tech
Mich. over Mich. State Mich. Mich. State Mich. State Mich.
Oklahoma over Pitt. ‘| Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma Oklahoma
V.P.L over William & Mary VP LL: VPI. VPI. V.P.I.
Navy over South Carolina Navy Navy Navy Navy
Wake Forest over West Virginia W. Va. Wake Forest W. Va. W. Va.
Florida over Auburn Florida Auburn Florida Auburn
Maryland over Baylor Maryland Maryland Maryland Maryland
North Carolina Over N. C. State N.C.. N.C. N.C. N.C.
Richmond over V.M.I. Richmond Richmond Richmond Richmond
So. California over Texas So, Cal. Texas Texas Texas
Wofford over Furman Furman Wofford Wofford Wofford

118 West Trade Street

When your courses are set
And a dream-girl you’ve met...

Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL!

t's @ psychological fact:

Pleasure helps your disposition.

If you’re o smoker, remember
— more people get more
pure pleasure from Camels

than from any other cigorette!

No other cigarette is so

rich-tasting, yet so mild!

7
‘Winstas-Galem, H.C,

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Phone ED. 2-8257

THE SPORT'S MANAGERS

SPE — H. R. Davis.

Phi Delt — Jim Ensign.

Kappa Sig — Tom Brewer.

K A — Larry McIntosh.

Pi Kapps — Bill Bard.

Pikas — C. F. Rienhardt.
Sigma Chi — Jim Daniels.
SAE — Steve Norton.

Phi Gamma Delta — Dick Jones
Beta — George Thomas.

ATO — Dick Hellstrom.
Campus Club — Randy Daniels.

By JIM PAGE

Davidson 7. The Apps were on the
Kitten’s 25 yard line when the sec-
ond quarter died.

Early in the second half the “ba-
by kittens” began to move. “Bustin’
Bob” Stancil started things off
by blocking a punt with Neubauer
recovering on the Appalachian 35.
Two plays later Moore had a first
down on the 18. Cutting sent Simp-
son into thd line for 3 to the 15.
On second Moore crashed to the
14 for one. Cutting hit Simpson in
the flat and he was hauled down on
the 12. On fourth down Moore
worked a Cutting pitchout to the
one where he was blasted out bare-
ly short of a T.D. It was a first
down though and that was all that
was nceded. Two plays later David-
son had scored with Cutting plung-
ing over behind Stancil, Walker
and Wilson. Francis’s kick for the
extra point was a little off but the
Kittens had tasted blood and from
then on wouldn't be denied. Sev-
eral minutes later Voigt recovered
a fumble on the Appalachian 30
and on the next play Woodmansee
lateralled to Cutting for a first
down on the 19. One play later
Simpson squirmed 19 yards for
the second score. Moore’s boot was
good and the game stood 13-0.

Appalachain's only score came
on an exchange of. fumbles. The
mountaineers by virtue of good
passing and a 15 yard defensive
holding penalty against Davidson
had moved the ball to the Kitten’s
10. On second and 10 Wilson re-
covered a fumble and it looked as
if the drive had bogged down. How-

ever on the next play Cutting fum.
bled and an Appalachain lineman
fell on the ball. Seconds later the
Apps had scored, passing six yards
to paydirt. Stancil and Francis
broke through to smother the extra
point attempt.

In the fourth quarter Voigt
grabbed another loose ball; this
time on the App’s 10 yard stripe.
An offsides penalty against Appa-
lachain moved it to the five from
where Francis powered to the two.
On third down McBride scored
through the center behind Stancil,
Walker and Wilson. Francis’s kick
was good and the Jr. reds were in
front 19-6. Late in the game Da-
vidson scored .their final points
when Simpson intercepted a pass
on his own 37 and flashed 63 yards
for the touchdown. Moore’s kick
sailed cleanly through the uprights
and a few moments later the game
ended with Davidson on top 27-6.

Standouts in the running depart-
ment were Francis, Barbee, Moore,
Simpson and Cutting. The “rocks”
in the line were led by Wilson,
Edwards, Walker, Voigt and a
very vicious young man named
Robert Stancil. The kicking for
Davidson was extremely good with
Moore, Barbee and Woodmansee
carrying most of the load. One punt
by Woodmansee sailed 56 yards.

Coach Jim Fasul and his assis-
tants are to be congratulated on x
fine team. If things keep on as
they did against Appalachian,
there’s a bright tomorrow for fu-
ture “Cat” squads.

EX-DAVIDSON TENNIS
STARS MEET AGAIN

Fort Benning, Ga. — Second Lt.[{fantry School’s basic Infantry offi-
John H. Bremer of Wilmington, N.] cers class No. 3 Sept. 19, defeated
C., newly crowned Columbus (Ga.)| Lt. Bremer in the North Carolina
City Tennis Champion, has found | State high school finals twice, on-
an old friend at Fort Benning and|ly to become his doubles partner
he is another Icft-handed court-{ for three years at Davidson (N. C.)
man, no less, College.

‘Don't underestimate Jeft-hand-
ed tennis players,” said Lt. Brem-
er, “Our highly successful David-
son team featured lefties as the
first four players during my last
three years in college.”

Second Lt. Lacy Keesler of Char-
lotte, N. C., who began The In-

.

During those college years, the
young netman captained the fresh-
man and varsity tennis teams. Da-
vidson took the Southern Confer-
ence championship during John's
senior year.

This year he won the post tour-
nament, Main Officers’ Mess Tour-
nament and the recent Columbus
laurels as well as finishing runner:

up in the Fort Benning Open. He
also took the ROTC (summer camp)
tournament at Fort Benning in
1953.

After completing the basic offi-
cers course following his entrance
in the Army in July, 1954, Lt.
Bremer became an Infantry School
instructor assigned to the Mortar
Committee of the Weapons Depart.
ment.

He began playing tennis when
he was 15 years old, spearheading
a drive for a tennis team at New
Hanover High School in Witming
ton soon afterwards. When the
squad was finally formed, John
took over as coach.

Lt. Bremer, a 5-foot 11-inch, 160-
pounder, claims he has no secret.
weapon to employ on opponents.
He confesses his serve cannot be
called a “big serve.” His chief tool
is his head, which he uses well in
sizing up an opponent.

“AN I try to do,” he explained.
“is play a consistent game and an-
ticipate what the other man is do-
ing. I try to figure out where he’s
going to hit the ball and do my
best to be there when it arrives.”

If he has any specialty, it is
probably his expertness at hitting
@ passing shot.
