THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1955

|

1955-56 Arist Series |Council Gets NSA Warlick Announces IKC

both Mr. and Mrs. Douglas and
Mr. Rathbone are known, the pro-
will include selections from
world’s favorite love poems,
a beautiful and moving story
faith, Osear Wilde’s “The
Selfish Giant.”

On November 4 Robert Merrill
will appear as the second guest of
this year’s series. Probably the
most popular baritone in the world
today, Mr. Merril) is entering his
tenth season at the Metropolitan.
He has sung leading roles in some
two hundred and fifty perform-
ances for the diamond horseshoe
and on tour with the opera, and
is known to millions through ap-
pearances on “Your Show of
Shows,” “Toast of the Town,” and
“The Jackie Gleason Show.”

His recordings for RCA Victor}

SEFe

bums to “Ol’ Man River” and the |
famous Yale “Whiffenpoof Song.” |
Musical America’s poll has re-

peatedly voted him the best male! Purchases, and therefore promote) 1o¢6. the exchange was such a suc-| in
| cess that an invitation to the Win.

classic singer on the air.

Born in Brooklyn and trained en-
tirely in America, Merrill is one
of the newer type of American
singers, at home in both operatic
and popular music. Big and broad
shouldered, he once played semi-
professional baseball, and was even
scouted for the Dodgers.

When the famous conductor Erno
Rap’ee heard Merrill's voice. he
booked him for eight weeks at
Radio City Music Hall. From then

present intelligent and prac-
tical arguments to the facul-
ty concerning students’ wish-

es.

(2) The Student Council should
require a frank and rational
answer from the faculty con-
cerning its proposals

(3) The Student Council should
inform the student body of

Organizational Meeting

Next Wednesday, October 5,
room of the College Union the International Relations Club
will hold its organizational meeting to get activity underway

Smith Studio To
Be Here Oct. 3-13

Smith Studio of Raleigh will be
on the campus to take pictures for
the QUIPS AND CRANKS and for
individual orders Monday, October

The first meeting of the David-
son College Camera Club for the
1955-56 school year will be held) avidson College students were
on this coming Wednesday, October | cajled upon Wednesday to consider

at nine o'clock in the green

is Executive Director of the Asso-
ciation of American Colleges and

for the coming year.

Under the leadership of Tom
Warlick, with Dr. Paul Marrotte
as faculty advisor, the Internation-

all new college policy before
it comes into effect

Councilman Perkinson then gave

a report on the efforts of his com-
mittee in its efforts to
mercial support for the college

get com-

various stores to advertise the Da-| problems of international inter-
vidson-Catawba game in their regu-| est Additional plans are under-

lar advertisements.

Also, he was working on the | qualified guest speakers to alter-
range from operatic arias and al-| Possibility of having stores buy UP| nate with the student programs.

blocks of tickets to Davidson
games. The purpose of this would
be give these tickets away with

Davidson athletics.

Two letters were read on the
matter of athletic subsidization.
One was from the Board of Trus-
tees in which they said that their
goal was for Davidson to join in a
non-subsidized league consisting of
Davidson's natural rivals, and mem-
bers of the Southern Conference.

The other letter was from Dr.
John Cunningham, in which he said
that because of lack of progress
toward this goal, he was ceasing

on one success followed another
In 1945 he won the Metropolita
Opera Auditions of the Air and
made his deput at the Met, where
he has since given distinguished
performances in nearly twenty
major roles.
Bennett Cerf, publisher, humorist.
columnist, and TV panelist, will ap-
pear on the Chambers Auditorium
platform on December 7.
It has been said that one thing
all great men have in common-—
—energy beyond that of ordinary
men. Mr. Cerf possesses this quali-
ty in abundance
His part-time jobs include writ-
ing a syndicated weekly newspaper
(The Cerf Board), a weekly maga-
zine column (Trade Winds-Satur-
day Review), lecturing all over the
country, starring on television pro-
grams, writing books of his own
and editing numerous ‘anthologies.
His official occupation is President
of Random House and Modern Li-
Mr. Cerf, who will speak here
on “Changing Styles in American
Humor,” is one of the most popu-
lar figures on the lecture platform.
His analysis, wit, and unique story-
telling ability have justly won
him the hearts of millions of
Americans.
Hailed as one of the most bril-
liant young artists on the current
keyboard horizon, David Bar-Illan
will be heard here on January 13.
Bar-Ilan has a background that
includes winning the highest
awards given by the Julliard Con-
servatory and the Mannes College
of Music. In June, 1953, he was
the recipient of the Coronation
Year medal awarded during the
coronation of Elizabeth II.
Bar-IMan’s stature as an artist of
rare abilities and striking appeal
has been firmly established in
Israel, England, and, more recently,
Canada, and the United States.
On February 7, Benjamin Swalin
brings to Davidson his famous
North Carolina Little Symphony.
This symphony orchestra gives
many performances a year, a great
majority of which are free, educa-
tional programs for school chil-
dren.
Benjamin F. Swalin was born in
Minneapolis, Minnesota. After work
in the Minneapolis Symphony Or-
chestra, he received fellowships to
study at home and abroad. After
his return to the United States in
1933, Dr. Swalin took a professor-
ship at DePauw University. In 1935,
he came to the University of North
Carolina. :
On March 2 the famed Barter
Theatre of Abingdon, Va., will
bring its troupe of seasoned per-

|

his efforts in the matter, and would

y wait for other colleges to do some- |
|

| thing about the matter

The Student Council decided to!
| present these two letters to the
|student body at a later date, at |
| which time, more detailed infor: |
mation would be given.

The Council also discussed, and
voted to eliminate the “alcohol on
the breath” definition of “under |
the influence” rule on drinking. It}
then discussed, but delayed voting |
on the definition of the gambling
rule. |

For those students who are in-|
terested, the Student Government |
Office in the College Union will be}
open every afternoon from 1:40 to
3:00. |

|

Homecoming Plans

(Continued From Page One)
Asian affairs.

The Honorary degree of Doctor
of Laws will be conferred upon}
him at the conclusion of his ad-
dress. Following this meeting lun- |
cheon will be served to the alumni}
and their wives |

The afternoon activities will cen-.
ter around the Davidson-Washing-
ton and Lee football game. Enthu-
siastic graduates, students paying.
more attention to the girl next to
him, and girls enthralled by the
attention being paid her and the
chrysanthemum she wears — all
know that there will be a victory
for the Wildcats.

After the game, music lovers
will move into Chambers Auditor
ium for the afternoon concert by
Art Mooney and his band. From
there, the couples will move to the}
College Union, fraternity houses or |
Charlotte for supper to return just |
in time for the girl to dress for the |
Saturday dance which will begin|
at 8 p. m., and last until 12 p.m. |
Art Mooney will again provide!
dance music Saturday night After|
the dance, many fraternity fune- |
tions, hay-rides, etc., are planned |
by different groups and individ-
uals.

}
This will be the first big dance |
week end that the new freshmen |
will know for the most part, and)
it promises to be one of the best |
yet. Slightly over three hundred |
girls will be housed in Belk dormi- |
tory over the week end. Those not |
staying in the Dormitory will stay |
in homes in Davidson or surround- |
ing communities. ;

By Sunday evening, the girls hav-
ing left, the campus will settle back
down to its usual routine, but with
the memories of the best dance
week-end yet.

ized after three year’s growth from
a church madrigal group of 12
voices. Since 1947 Wagner has
guided his group into international
fame in concert, radio, television,
motion pictures, and recordings.
Lucas Hoving and Lavina Neilsen
(a husband and wife team) will

year to provide a group for stu-
dents to express their interest in)
world affairs. Membership is open |
to all students who have such an)
interest.

The fall plans of the club in-!

way to secure a number of well-

Last year when the Davidson IRC |
presented a program to the corre-
sponding group at Winthrop Col-

throp club to present a similar | Of the Colege Union. This will be} major educational crisis in the

program at Davidson is high on the | 4" 3
list of tentative plans for the fall | Should not last more than 30 min-|

al Relations Club hopes again this | semester.

|
political science while on leave participate in the activities of the sig sean no a that the | fh F D Guest
from the State Department, has) Club this year in the next on oe at the shoe

; agreed to work with the club, and | to be present
he is certain to be of great value ~

paper about topics of current in-| (Continued From Page One)
terest to the club and to the entire
student body.

in the IRC are urged to attend the|
organizational meeting Wednesday

| 5, at 7:15 p.m., in the Green Room | teaching as a career in the face of | Universities. “The qualitative as-

pects wre even more serious.”

3rd, through Thursday, October
13th. Pictures will be taken in the
College Union daily from 10:00 un-
tit 5:30 with the exception of Mon-
day, the third, when the hours are
3:00 until 5:00.

Students are asked to adhere to
the followihg schedule for the re-
spective classes, and the Faculty is
asked to pay particular attention
to the faculty notice.

organizational meeting and United States.

Dr. Theodore A. Distler, speak-| :
ing at the college's first academic | DF Danrad To Be

convocation this year, pointed out

utes. All students, especially new
. students, who have an interest in
Dr. Harold P. Ford, professor of | photography, and would like to

are curdially invited | shortage of teachers in higher edu-
___ | eation is perhaps more serious than
| material needs.

Members of Alpha Epsilon Del-
ta, pre-medical fraternity, will hold

j ‘ . . ; this year. Another boost is the!
ay Pog cc page clude, as in the past, student PFO- | agreement with the Davidsonian PJ Har Moffett “There is good hope,” said Dr.|a supper at 7 p.m., Wednesday,| October 35—Senior Class and
e ha en successful in settin§| grams and discussions on various | to rufa. series of articles in the! . ry Distler, “that material needs will| Oct. 5, in the College Union. Faculty.

October 5-7—Junior Class.
October 10-11—Sophomore Class.
October 12-13—Freshman Class.

An orientation program for pre-
medical students is planned.

Dr. K. E. Penrod of Duke Uni-
versity will be the guest speaker |
at the first meeting of Alpha Epsi-| cerning the aims of AED and some
lon Delta. of its plans for this year.

This part of the meeting will} All members of the student
begin at 8 p.m. in the science} body, especially members of the
lecture hall. freshman class, are cordially in-

Dr. Puckett will also speak con-'vited to attend.

be met if we know how to harness
| Fall Services wili vegin with Ves-| good will and a sense of responsi-
| pers on October 9, and continue) bility for higher education.”
{through the 11th. Dr. Paul Tudor| He cited the anticipated annual
All students who are interested | Jones, pastor of Idlewild Presby-| gifts of $100 million dollars from
terian Church in Memphis, Tennes-| industry and $60 millions from
see, will be delivering the messag-! alumni for the support of the col- |
. es. More complete information will | leges as evidence.

the College Union to adopt) be given in next week's issue of| “But material needs are not the
whole story,” said Dr. Distler, who

Luxurious Cashmere
V-neck Sweaters

Pure Cashmere in ohne of the
handsomest sweaters you've
ever seen! Oxford, light grey
navy, natural, taffy, dark
brown, yellow, white, charcoal
grey, medium grey, black,
charcoal brown, pink, cherry

38-46,
27.50

men's furnishings, street floor

fast color, Esquire
Argyle Socks

A comprehensive collection of
these famous socks, bold pat-
terns, in uniformly good taste
All are fast-colors, wash beau-

tifully.
1.00

men’s furnishings, street floor

in Ivy League style .. .
Handsome Slacks

Handsome Dana sheen gabar-
dine slacks, in black, olive,

tan and charcoal grey
9.95

Ivy League Flannels, in char-
coal brown, blue, grey and

green.
15.00

men’s clothing, street floo:

long-wearing genuine
shell cordovan

Lustrous shell cordovans are
an investment in smart ap-
pearance and long wear. Sizes
6 to 13, widths A to E. Shown,
Crosby Square plain toe with
leather sole and heel in black
or brown, or with rubber sole

in brown only.
16.95

men’s shoes, street floor

plans for another successful year.| the Davidsonian.

ivy covers
he campus

From the moment you try on one of our
Ivy League suits or sport coats, you’ve gained
a valuable business and social asset.
You look trimmer, more self-assured.
You look destined to get ahead. The secret
is in the easy, natural fit; in the rich,
subdued fabrics, in the careful tailoring
Worsted-Tex. lavishes on every suit or sport
coat. We have your size and color prefer-
ence, in a full selection of patterns.
Isn‘t it worth a try-on tomorrow?

Worsted-Tex suits,
65.00

Worsted-Tex iainiaiele
30.00 up

“After-Six” Ivy League Tuxedo,

t
Wilson Brothers authentic Ivy League shirt
in lustrous combed oxford cloth ............ 5.00

Black knit ties

