CATS HIT
GUILFORD, V.P.I.
(Page 3)

Che BDauitdsontan

CHRISTMAS IS
FOR CHILDREN
(Page 2)

VOL. XLIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1955

No. 11

RD. Hall fo Highlight 28!<E POLL:
Students Indicate Desire
To Strengthen Court

December 13 Drill

Mr. R. D. Hall of Belmont, N. C.,
will be the guest of the Davidson
College ROTC Cadet Regiment on

Tuesday, December 13. He was the | opinion poll. It will serve as a guide Ye.
first student commander of the)
com- |

Military Unit at Davidson,
manding a battalion of the reserve
officers training corps in 1918
1919.

Mr. Hall was graduated in 1919.
While a student, he was active in
class athletics, publications, and
oratory.

He has been associated with tex-
tiles since his graduation. At the
present time he is seeretary-treas-

urer of Climax Spinning Company,
Majestic Manufacturing Company, | like to see the Court's meetings
and Stowe Thread Company; assis-| returned to chapel.
tant Secretary-Treasurer of Sterl-
ing Spinning Company; and Presi-| pect of the poll is the fact that
dent of Belmont Hosiery Mills and) 4 majority of the freshmen would
Belmont Knitting Company. like to see the court made stronger.
A member of the Employment Se-| A total of 467 students were
curity Commission of North Caro-| polled; of this total number, 168
lina since 1941, he is also a mem-} were freshmen.
ber of the Belmont City Council, The percentage results shown
the North Carolina Department of| below indicate the opinions of
the American Legion (Past Com-| freshmen and upperclassmen sep-
mander), and the Rotary Interna-| grately, then both combined.
tional. 1. Do you think the Court of
Control, as it now = exists,
serves any useful purpose?

The following is a preferential | Fresh. U’class Overall
17% 12% 14%
for the Student Council Commit- Nv 81% 87% 85%
tee on the Court of Control and is Nv Opinion 2% 1% 1%
not considered as a final student | 2. Would. you like to see the
ivdgment on the controversial mat- | Court of Control put back in
ter. A poll will be taken on the pro- | chapel as it was until last
posal and suggestions of this Com- | ‘eur?
mittee at a later date to determine Fresh. U'ciass Overall
the future of the Court. Ed. | Yes 54° 86% 74%
In a poll taken this past week, | No 340 12% 20%
the students of Davidson over-| No Opinion 12% 2% 6%
whelmingly indicated their desire} 3. Do you think the Court of
to retain and strengthen the Court Control should be abolished?
of Control. Most students would Fresh. U’class Overall
Yes 28% 12% 17%
No 70 87 81%
Perhaps the most surprising as-|No Opinion 5’ 1 2%
4. If you think the Court should

be abolished, why?

a. Freshmen no longer need
this sort of discipline.

b. Court has no power; there-

fore, it’s a faree.
c. Other reasons (Please write
in)
Fresh. U’class Overall
Yes 40 19°; 30%
No 18 28" 23%
No Opinion 42 53°: 47%

| (Continued On Page Four)

The fall blood drive, held on
December 5 and 6, yielded a total
of 162 pints of blood for the Amer-
ican Red Cross in the first of its
semi-annual visits to the college.
There were 58 donations on Mon-
day and 104 on Tuesday, with sev-
eral faculty and community mem-
bers contributing to the total.

It is hoped that the next visit of
the Bloodmobile, in the spring, will
be more successful. Complete de-
tails about this blood drive will
be released early in the second
semester.

ful man with an exceptional

ing more than disconnected,

tempt (a fundamental error) at

The Reference Room of the Grey Memorial Library has served as a
place of quiet study for many a Davidson student.—(Photo by
Daniel.)

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE:

Facilities Offer
hivent to Students

BY JOCK REEDER

From a library catalog in 1841 listing two hundred and
thirty-one volumes, to today’s spacious plant with a stack ca-
pacity of 25,000 volumes, the Davidson Library has continu-
ously offered Davidson students the best possible selection of
books.

The years since 1837, when the
Library first began by gifts of

which during the war were diffi-
cult or impossible to obtain.

s Lecture Called
Delightat If ‘Rambling’

By FRED MYERS
Bennett Cerf is a good-natured, entertaining and success-

and making money. In these respects his lecture last Wednes-
day evening in Chambers Auditorium was all that could be
expected. As concerns form, his talk was fundamentally noth-

were, however, certain departures from form. Grievously, he
philosophisized, politicized, and artisticized. He made some at-

|} King of England and Danny Kaye,

books from friends of the college,
have been eventful. In 1883, the
library became a depository for
government documents, and four
years later the union of the librar-
ies of the literary societies and
the College Library was effected.
Funds were donated by Andrew
Carnegie for a library building’ in
1909-10, but in 1921, the burning of

volumes. Twenty-thousand volumes
were left in the Carnegie Library,
however, and in the years 1930-33,

The walls of the Grey Memor-
ial Library contain many helpful
features to complement the essen-
tial stacks. Students working in

talent for telling funny stories

if delightful, rambling. There

conformity to topic. In this case,
the subject was basically only a
conventional pretext, and should
most definitely have been treated
yas such throughout.

The stories which Mr. Cerf told
concerning the Governor of lowa
(or some such remote region), the

were masterfully handled. They
were recounted with a remarkable
sense of intimacy and with zest. We
were led to believe, on the other

R. J. Sailstad To Join
Robert J. Sailstad, Director of
Development at Sweet Briar Col-
lege, Va., will join the Davidson
College administrative staff in mid-
January
The announcement was made to- |
day by Dr. John R. Cunningham, |
Davidson president. He said that
one of Mr. Sailstad’s concerns will
be the continued growth of endow
ment, general financial develop-
ment and the annual giving pro-
gram.
Sailstad joined the Sweet Briar
administration in 1952, and has |
overseen the planning and coordi-
nation of all fund raising work.
Previously he had been a direc-
tor of the Davidson Development
Program that began in 1947, and
he has acquired a varied back-
ground in educational public re-
lations and fund programs

He was publie relations director
of the Methodist College Founda-
tion in Greensboro, a state-wide
cooperative agency operated in the
interest of Duke University, and
of Brevard, Greensboro, High Point
and Lewisburg colleges.

Mr. Sailstad is a native of Min-
nesota and a 1937 honor graduate
of the University of’ Minnesota. He

remained there until 1941 a

}
|

as

|
|
|
|

On Monday December

night,
twelfth, the Interfraternity Council

is sponsoring its annual Christmas
party for the children from the
Barium Springs Orphanage

The children wil! arrive in buses
in the cirele behind Chambers
Building about -7:15 p. m. They
will be divided into groups, and
various men from each fraternity
will escort their groups to the ball-
room of the College Union.

The Male Chorus. will sing for

Comes to Dav

about fifteen minutes to the massed

group. Plans are also being made
to have a short movie of fifteen to
twenty minutes. Following — the

group to the fraternity house.

graduate student and member of
the faculty.

During World War II he served
as director of the Communications

ginia, and in 1943 became Director

College in Missouri
Mr.
Minnesota. They have four chil
dren, Judith 7, John 4,
and Jeffrey 11 months.
He will continue in his position
at + Seant Briar until January,

of Public Information for Stephens |

Sailstad is married to the!
former Patricia Kreis of Hibbing,

Jane 2 1-2)

At the various traternity houses,

| the children will be entertained by |

the various members. Refreshments

| will be served, and each child will |
. : ! : +
Center at Hampton Institute in Vir-| receive a Christmas present from)

‘Y’ Gift Fund
Will Be This Monday

Santa Claus. The houses will be
decorated with « Christmas tree
land all the trimmings to further
the enjoyment of the visiting chil-
dren. These parties are perhaps,
the finest undertaking of the fra-|
ternities here; many hearts will}
|}receive the warmth of Christmas
cheer through this act of good
| will

College December 27-29.

It will be sponsored by the
Synod’s Committee for Christian |
Education and directed by the
Reverend Robert Bluford, pastor of |
the Western Blvd. Presbyterian
Church, Raleigh. Dr. Harold Dud-

hand, that a sense of humor,
coupled with a sense of maudlin
sentimentality, was the one cure
for the age’s ills. We were led,

further, to a peremptory dismissal
of such serious writers as William

ley, Executive Seeretary of the
Synod, will lead recreations, and
the Reverend Howard Chadwick,
Westminster Presbyterian Church,
Charlotte, will be the song leader.

Faulkner and Tennessee Williams ;
as “filthy” and having no valid,
context in the contemporary idiom. '

makes Mr. Cerg print only
“printable”
less be appropriate to print here
a joke which he told in our recent
interview, but ‘it would perhaps
be dangerous as well, though we
wonder how many of our readers
have any clear idea of what bug-
gery is.

Perhaps Mr. Cerf's humanistic
philosophy and prudent propriety
are best explained by an _ idea
which he sufficiently emphasized

(Continued On Pepe Four)

Poneily

At the December meeting of the

Faculty the following report was

Is it a sense of propriety which |
the |
story? It would doubt- |

the reference room have the bene- presented to the faculty and passed.
fit of both incandescent and flour- The committee authorized by the

|escent lighting, and to further an) faculty to study the conditions for

atmosphere of comfort and concen- exclusion of students and which

The speaker will be Dr. Fred H.
' Olert, pastor of the Second Presby-
te rian Church, Richmond. Dr. Don-
ald Miller, Professor of New Testa-
ment, Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, will be the teacher of
Bible and Dr Carl Pritchett, pastor

of the First Presbyterian Church, |

Anderson, S. C., will present a chal-
lenge on the “Mission of the
Church.”

On Wednesday afternoon of: the
convention a series of seminars on
“Christian Maturity” will be con-
ducted by: Dr. Sam Newell, David-
son Presbyterian Church, David-
son; Dr. Harry Moffett, Jr., First
Presbyterian Church, Gastonia;

Davidson To Be Scene of
Christmas Youth Meet

A Christmas Youth Convention for Presbyterian young further suggestions and criticisms
people between the ages of 16 and 20 will be held at Davidson | {tom those who attend the meet

| Miss Eleanor Belk, Myers Park |
| Presbyterian Church, Charlotte:
jand Dr. Lawrence Stell, Trinity
| Presbyterian Chureh, Charlotte

| In order
| proble “ms which
ple in our day

face young
an elective group
of “The Christian. Faces.”
will be led by: Dr. Frontis
Johnston. Davidson College; Dr
George Staples, Highland Presby
terian Church, Winston-Salem; Rev

title
These

Fred Kk. Stair, Jr. First Presby
terian Church, Hickory; Rev. Sam
Maloney. Davidson College; Dr
Frank Hall, Pearsall Memoria!
Church, Wilmington, and Dr. Carl
| Pritchett, Anderson, S.C. Two
other seminars in this series will
be “Business Obligations” and
“Church Voeations.”

The way in which the church
serves Christ through Church Ex

tension. World Missions, and Chris
tian Education will be presented by
men prominent in these fields, in-
cluding Dr. Maleolm Calhoun of |
Atlanta, Ga., and Mr. Clinton Har-
ris, Richmond, Va

18 points by the time of entrance |
into the sophomore year. (b) 48
hours and 36 points by the time of
entrance into the junior year. (c)
75 hours and 60 points by the time

Rules

On Student Exclusions

the Registrar. with an average
grade of C or better, and b. Meet-|
ing the minimum schedule of se-
mester hours and quality points in
1. above

movie, each fraternity will take its |

to deal with practical |
peo: |

of seminars will be held under the |

tration, the chairs are equipped |
with casters for reclining.

The periodical room contains
current magazines in convenient
wall racks which were especially
designed for this building. Bound
volumes of past issues are avail-
able also. The smoking room pro-
vides a place for a smoke and a
break and is adjacent to the news-
paper room which offers the news-
paper of any town represented by
at least twelve boys here at David-
son.

The seminar rooms are intended
to supply an atmosphere of in-
formality for small faculty-student
discussion periods and the carrels

submitted the report is composed of
Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Dean S. R.

| Spencer, Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, and

Dean C. J. Pietenpol.

The new regulations, passed by
the faculty, are as follows:

1. To remain in college, all stu-
dents must make satisfactory aca-
demic progress. (a) To meet this
requirement all students, except
new students during the first se-
mester of residence, must: (1) Pass
at least three 3-hour courses on
any given semester report (a course
passed by re-examination does not
count toward this requirement);
and (2) Earn a minimum number
of semester hours and quality

in the stacks provide individual
(Continued on Page Four)

points in accordance with the fol-

lowing schedule: (a) 24 hours and

of entrance into the senior year.,; The following are some of the
Under the direction of the Execu-! effects of the new regulations.
tive Committee of the Faculty, the | They spell out rule 6 on page 11
Dean of Students shall confer with| of the present rule book, which
the parents of new students who) reads as follows:
fail to pass three-3-hour courses! The records of students who
during the first semester of resi-| have been in the college for one
dence and may, depending on the semester or longer and who are
circumstances, advise or require barely meeting the minimum
withdrawal. | standard for remaining in the col-
2. No student who has been ex-| lege shall be reviewed from time
cluded for failure to make satisfac-|to time by the appropriate admin-
tory academic progress is guaran-| istrative officials of the college and
teed readmission to the college un- such cases shall be reported, to the
der any circumstances. Such a stu- Executive Committee. If a student
dent desiring readmission may,|is not making reasonable progress
however, qualify for consideration | toward graduation after he has had
by the Admissions Committee by: (a fair opportunity to do so, the
a. Passing a minimum of nine Executive Committee may either

Shown above is a picture taken last year at one of the fraternity
houses during the annual Christmas Party for the children of the
Barium Springs Orphanage. This year’s party, again sponsored by
the IFC, will be held Monday — December 12.

|

The Davidson College Gift
_/open meeting on Monday,
ithe College Union during the ¢

Everyone who is interested in
the planning for the Gift Fund is}
| urged to attend. The Committee
| will present the projects it is now}

| considering and will be open to

ae

The Gift Fund drive will be held
iat the beginning of the second s:
A period of four weeks
| will be devoted to an edueational
program, during which students
and faculty will be fully. informed
lof the projects of the Fund. This
will be followed by a week of so }
licitation. Contributions will go to|
two projects, il one and a non-|
local one

mester.

a loc

holding the Gift
the year than
istime drive and
ts instead of one
everal reasons

The reasons |
Fund drive later
the usual Christm
having two proje«
was prompted |
which include

will give. time .for more
in edueational pro-
know to what

This
preparation for
gram to let student

they are giving and why. The Com-
mittee will have more time to se
cure speakers who are vitally in-
terested in the projects

Moving the drive away from

tiving a mat
iving from a

Christmas will mak«
iter of stewardship
feeling of desire to give rather
| than an obligation to contribute
| just beeause it is Christmas. In con
nection with this, it will. be noted |
| that the name of the Fund is the
| Davidson College Gift Fund, not)

2 Christmas Gift Fund

rather than
problem of
1 project in

Having two project
me will alleviate th
| having “—— give to

Free Movie Slaied
For College Union

win's boyhood on New York's east-
side, and carries his life to the
peak of success.

The entire college family is in-
vited to enjoy this wonderful film,

hours in one semester at an ac-| advise or require him to withdraw. |
credited institution approved by (Continued On Page Four)

| which stars Robert Alda, Joan Les-
lie, Alexis Smith, and Al Jolson.

December

| Persons

| Child,

Annual Yuletide
Service Will Be in
The College Church

The annual Christmas
service will be held at the
son College Presbyterian
on December 11,

Vespers
David-
Church
beginning at 7:30

p. m. Attendance is not required,
but everyone is invited to attend
The service is usually well at-

tended, and for that reason, per-

|sons who desire to be seated in

the sanctuary should come early
The Litany of Christmas and the

reading of the Christmas story con-
stitute the major portion of the
service. The reader will be Tom
Mann, and his reading will be ae-
companied by appropriate music
by the chorus. The singing of
Christmas hymns and carols by the
congregation will be another im-
portant part of the service.

Directing will be Donald B. Plott
and J. Franklin West, while Philip
Gehring will be the organist. So-
}loists will be Nancy Sossomon,
_. | contralto, Hugh Craig, baritone, W.

{Robert Martin, tenor, and Grier
| Davis tenor
Students are invited to visit in
|the homes of professors whose
names will be listed on the Vespers
| bulletin

So
| Scripts and Pranks
Fund Committee will hold an Will Appear Thursday

12
2, in the Blue Room of | Humor is the order of the day

hapel po for the Christmas issue of the
| Seripts and Pranks which will ap-
pear next Thursday or Friday. The
|second chapter of John Garvey’s
“House of Jazz" will be included as
well as a feature section of interest
to all Davidsonians who pursue the
gay life

selected by! Along with articles by. upper-
after’ classmen Jim Armstead, Harry An-
consideration of all suggestions.! trim, Harvey Twitchell, and Jim
who wish to make sug-| Kuist, freshmen will come to the
before the December 12) fore with the inclusion of the win-
meeting should see John Me- ning entry in the freshmen writing
chairman of the Com. contest, and a double spread of the

cartoons by the gifted Bob Cole.

which they: are not particularly  in-

terested. Contributors may choose |
which project either local or non-

local, which they desire to sup: |
port, or they may support both pro

recets

The projects will be
the Gift Fund Committee

gestions
oper
Lauchlin
mitter

Scabbard and Blade, Honorary Military Fraternity, tapped eight
Seniors into membership during last Tuesday’s drill.

Scabbard&Blade
Taps 8 Seniors

Scabbard and Blade, the honorary military fraternity, has
tapped the following Davidson College cadets for member-
ship in the organization.

_ ; ge a Philip H. Koonce, Regimental! ognizes outstanding qualities of
ia haeien an EMAMMODY Be Executive Officer, from Tarboro, leadership and ability in ROTC ca-
BLUE on Monday evening at 9:30 N. C., Hollis F. Cobb, First Bat-| dets. The Davidson chapter of Seab-
and Wednesday evening at 9 (just talion Commander, of Charlotte, N. bard and Blade was founded in
9). The committee has decided| C.; Tom D. Owen, the 2nd Bat-| 1923. The aims of the organization
that there siail be no admission| ‘#!ion Commander, of Charleston.) are to unite in closer fellowship
haried for this film | W Va.; Robert C. Stewart, Com-! the military departments of Amer-
— : : |pany A Commander, of Carthage,| ican universities and. colleges, to

The film portrays one of the|N. ©; L. L. Echols of Greenville, preserve and develop the essential
greatest figures of American mu-|S. C., Ist Platoon Leader of Com-| qualities of good and efficient of-
sic. It begins with George Gersh-| pany F; Jon W. Regen, Ist Pla-! ficers, and above all, to develop an

toon Leader of Company E, from’ intelligent understanding concern-
Durham, N. C.; DeWitt F. Helm,|ing the military requirements of
Commander of Company F, from’ our country.
Hot Springs, Va.;. and John L.| The eight Davidson College sen-
2nd Platoon Leader of. iors who received membership in
Company E, from Hopedale, Mass. | the Scabbard and Blade are all out-
Scabbard and Blade is an Honor- standing cadets in the Davidson
ary Military Fraternity which rec-| College ROTC unit.
