Speaking sx. |Ohe Dabidsonian) ==

ALENDA CUR UBD GRTA LIBERTAS

Sports

By JIM HOLSHOUSER PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1955

Wildcat Baseballers Face W&L Here

Davidson Tracksters (@enerals Offer First
To Open Nex! Week (Conference Competition

The Davidson varsity track team
opens its 1955 spring season here
next Saturday when the Wildcat
thinclads play host to the teams
from Mercer and Richmond in a
triangular meet.

The meet will be run on Richard-
son Field and will get under way
at 1:30 p.m. The Davidson team
will present a strong array of run-
ners and ficld men, with Pete

SLUGGERS TURN OUT !!

Amazing as it may seem, those who viewed the slugfest
on the local diamond against Lenoir Rhyne last Monday will
readily admit that Coach Chuck Clements has proved that
Davidson can have a good baseball club, and this year’s team
is going to be hard to beat. The familiar Davidson weakness '

of all field-no hit is a thing of the past, as Monday’s 23-9 win
shows. Wildcat pitchers no longer have to hold the opposing
club scoreless if they want to be sure of a win, for the low
scoring mark for the season has been the 5-run game at
Parris Island. The pitchers also have an improved defensive
line-up behind them which is going to show up in some of
the games.

Davidson Netters Open Defense
Of Southern Conference Crown

By BUNNY PERKINSON

Perhaps the most active of all the spring sports teams are Coach Dick McKee's netters,
for they have played a total of eight matches thus far, four in Florida during a Spring Holi-
slapping the ball at better than .300, and he has three .400 day's or ong four here othe com, Two more matches are set for early nent wee -
hitters. The trio of Buzz Hope, Bill Rowland, and Jim West urnishing the competition, the former to ve played in Greenvie, 8. ©.
is Davidson’s answer to the Yankees’ fame 4d “Murderer’s on Monday, and the latter to be played at Davidson on Wednesday. Duke, reportedly having
Row.” All three are hitti ta .440 plus av d all one of its best teams in recent years, will furnish the Cats with some of their toughest op-

: ng at a .440 plus average, and all’ .ocition this season, and nothing would make Coach McKee and the boys happier than to

By LEON HOWELL

Fresh from victories against non-conference foes, David-
son encounters its first barrier in the conference baseball race
this Friday and Saturday. In games beginning at 3:15 and 2:30,
respectively, they will meet the Washington and Lee nine,
whom they defeated twice last season.

Coach Clements indicated that
Johnny Smith would probably be
the starting pitcher in Friday's af-
fair, while either Dick Belton or

“MURDERER’S ROW”

Thus far in the season, Coach Clements has five hitters

booming bats of the Davidson
sluggers. in the Lenoir Rhyne

three have hit more than their share of the extra-base knocks.
West has hit three home runs in five games, and Rowland has
had two round-trippers. Hope has had several doubles, three
triples, and a home run.

No one on the club is hitting at less than .200 (excluding
pitchers and pinch hitters), and it’s quite a task for opposing
pitchers to get through a line-up of this nature. The Parris
Island Marines, one of the top service outfits which is loaded By J. JOHNSON
with professional and former collegiate players, could only| |, the interfraternity . competi-
hold the slugging Cats to 19 runs in three games. Thus far, | tion,
Davidson is averaging better than 10 runs per game, and a|rounds of volleyball have been
club like this won’t lose many. completed. Although several games

have not yet been recorded, the
PITCHING WEAKNESS Par ens ave cally on top of the
‘The pitching department has been the weak spot in the| league. Through Wednesday, the
line-up, even though Johnny Smith has turned in several out-|Phis have taken eight victories
standing performances. Ish Bennett was late in getting to without losing a single encounter.
practice, due to the final part of the basketball season, and se HA a he chird place berth
the Northfork righthander has been a little slow in regaining|;. held by the Pikas who have six
the form that has made him one of the Wildcat mainstays in| wins against two losses.
the past. With a little more work, he will probably come| The tenth of the eleven rounds
around, and this will be a welcomed aid. Dave Page and Allen | was played today. The final round
Moore, two freshman lefthanders, have looked good in early no eee ent next week.
games, and with a little more experience, these two southpaws Because twelve games are played
should develop into top-flight collegiate hurlers. Dick Belton,, in a day, the matches ‘are being

Delis Take lead
In IF Volleyball

polish off this highly-regarded foe.

Yesterday, in a series of hard-
fought and exciting matches, the
Cats defeated a strong team from
Cornell University by the count of
six matches to three, as Lacy Kees-
ler, Corky Clark, George Snead,
and Dick Makepeace won singles
matches. Snead played what
Coach McKee called the “outstand-

the results of the first eight| ing match of the day,” as he came

from behind several times to take
the third set. eleven games to
nine, and win the match. The Cor-
nell squad was scheduled to play
a return match today, and the
Cats were looking for a sweep of
this two-game series.

Earlier in the week, Swarthmore
and Michigan State invaded the
den of the Southern Conference
Champions and emerged from the
matehes much wiser. though in
neither case the victor. On Wednes
day. the Cats defeated Swarth.
more, six matches to three, after
having defeated the Michigan
State squad on Monday by the
score of 8 to 1. In the number

Wildcat Linksters
On Road Trip to S. C.

Davidson's varsity golf team re-
turns tonight from a two-day trip
into South Carolina where the
linksters met Furman and Wof-
ford. The Southern Conference

‘champion Wildcats were to ‘meet

the Purple Hurricane of Furman
yesterday in the second conference
match of the year. The Davidson
club defeuted The Citadel in the
first family encounter.

The team traveled to Florida
over the spring vacation and could
gain only one victory in five at-
tempts. The fine Florida teams,
which have year-round competi-
lion, were too well in shape for
the Cats. but thé final round of
the trip saw the local crew take a
conference win from The Citadel
in a close one, 14-13

Ashcraft being the biggest name
in the group. Ashcraft won the
Southern Conference Indoor Meet’s

mile and two-mile events last Feb-|

ruary, and the soph runner will
be a big threat in the spring events
as well.

The outlook for a good season
seems certain, and with a host of
veteran tracksters returning from
last year's varsity and freshman
clubs, things should go well. Frank
Mitchener and Phil Koonce will
be back, in the dashes, and the
weight division will be bolstered
by the rise of two sophomores,
Bill Gramley and Bill Lazenby.

“Ish” Bennet will work on Satur-
day. The rest of the lineup will
probably remain the same with the
exception of third base, where
John Patterson and Bob Campbell
are alternating. Although the op-
position is an unknown quantity at
present, all indications point to a
much better club than last year’s
aggregation.

For the baseball fans on the
campus, there is reason for real
enthusiasm about this year’s club.
Proof positive is the two games
played in the past week against
Catawba and Lenoir Rhyne. The
pitchers on these two clubs were
given a rude reception by the

game they clouted four home runs,
with Bill Rowland blasting one ball
in the neighborhood of 420 feet.
Before the Tuesday game four
players, Rowland, West, Little, and
Hope. were hitting at a clip above
400.

After doing a fine job with
limited material in the past, Coach
Clements. wears a satisfied look
.these days that is hard to conceal.
Even he admits that prospects in-
dicate a good season. Power at the
plate, much stronger pitching, ade-
+ quate fielding, and most important,
bench strength, add up to the best
team in several years.

(Continued no Page Four)

Coline Smokers huow why

WINSTON

changed America’s mind

Action of next week finds the
golfers with only one match. They
will take on the traveling Williams
team in Charlotte next Thursday
in their first home match. All
home events are being held on the
Myers Park Country Club course.

one man on the Swarthmore squad,
Tim Coss, Lacy Keesler met one
of the steadiest players he has
faced this season and was defeated
after a hard-fought match. George
Snead lost another tough match in

up from last year's freshman club, will be another right-|run off quicker than any other fra-
hander who will see a lot of duty, and if he continues to fire |ternity sport. Also the standings

. ; indicate that the span between the
at the rate he did last season, he will get the nod for several upper and lower teams is greater
starting assignments. than in most of the other compe-

Johnny Smith started the first game of the season in aN | tition; while one team is without

exhibition game against the Parris Island club, and he wentja loss, three teams show winless
the distance, handcuffing the Marines with only 5 hits. The | records.

singles play, and he and Leighton
Green later lost their doubles

The team will play only three

about filter cigarettes!

i i .| The unofficial standings as| match, after Leighton had defeated ‘mi ;

artful senior has also relieved in fine fashion on several oc posted are: his opponent in ingles. The Miehi- more eee eT one cach
casions. . Teams Win Loss | gan lads were no equal to the|man, before the league tourna-

Including today’s game, the Wildcats have eight confer-| prj Delt _ 8 © |Cats’ strength, as Keesler, Clark,| ment on May 5, 6 and 7. The
ence contests, and the opposition from'V.M.L. and V.P.I. will) kK. a.. ——— § 1 |Snead, Green, Thorpe, and Make-| event will be held on the Country
probably be the roughest of the year. The conference cham- eke z ‘ ; pence took eee singles matches. Club course in Danville, Virginia. .

‘ . 7 . A EB. while e s a ids i i
right Maree ont this area in Re INCAA toumey’s feat roun | A. T. O. 4 3 | duo lost a very close match. champion, but it will be a hard WINSTON
. 4 4 . ; .
If the pitching comes through, the Davidson club will be right geppae 4 3 |, Last | Saturday ; the Wildeats task trophy. a golters to return TASTES GOOD '
in the thick of the fight for the conference crown, and after a Beta _... 1 3 University team be the score of Johnston Gymnasium. Competition . .
winless season only two years ago, that is an accomplishment! Sigma Chis ) 4 | eight to one, and thus gained a| Will be rough, but the Wildcats =
fot which Coach Clements deserves a real hand. C. C. .. ° 5 lhittle revenge for the defeat the| still will be one of the top con-| } | ~~!
————_—__—_—_—__—___—_-c.--a2-6-#w.NNN.. FL Phi Gams. 0 6 Icolonials administered to the tenders. : mg
basketball team in the Southern Bis ¥
K $i 0 f F f Conference tournament a few|land of sunshine” was certainly a {
TH E C 0 N N 1] | § S F U p appa gs u ron weeks ago. great advantage for the boys at

in Fraternity Race
With 3 Decisions Leff

The Kappa Sigs are leading the
annual Interfraternity race, and at
this point, it appears that the
“Snappers” are a sure bet to win
the cup at the end of the year.

A Place of fine Foods for any taste
in Eating — Specializing in Steak,
Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-286!

maining on the fraternity docket,
the Kappa Sigs now have a fifty-
two point lead over the second.
place Phi Delts who are the present
holders of the cup.

The SAEs stand in third place,
76 points behind the Phi Delts,
while the Sigma Chis are fourth
and the Betas fifth. It seems that
the Phi Delts are the only ones
who have a decent chance to over-
take the leading Kappa Sigs, but
it is doubtful that, this late in the
year, the Delts wilt be able to
overcome that large a lead.

The Kappa Sigs will gain a large
block of points in the final event—
varsity competition, since they
have their usual large number of
men participating in varsity activ.
ities this year. With this as an
added booster, they will be hard to
stop.

IVY LEAGUE

KHAKI POPLIN SUITS
28.50.

See Them At

While most students were en-
joying the comforts of home dur-
ing the recent Spring Holidays,
the tennis team was busily engaged
in touring Florida, playing some
of the country’s most outstanding
college tennis players. Coach Mc-
Kee took his boys to the Univer-
sity of. Miami, to Rollins, to the
University of Florida and to the
Jacksonville Naval Air Station.

Witt only volleyball, softball.’ Although they lost three matches
tennis, and varsity competition re-}5nq won only one, each player

gained some valuable experience
that will manifest itself at a later
date. The fact that folks in Florida
play tennis the year ‘round in “the

a i tT

Miami and the other teams played.
While the team lost, eight to one,
at Miami, Dick Makepeace was
gaining a deserved win over his
opponent in singles. The victory
at the Jacksonville Naval Air Sta-
tion. and losses at Rollins, 1-8, and
University of Florida, 4-5. ended
the activity of the tour.

After winning four straight
matches since returning home, the
Cats are setting their sights on
making 4 elean sweep of the rest
of their engagements.

Page Elected Captain
Of Greek Cage Stars

Murray Page, hustling forward for the ATO basketball
team, has been chosen as captain of the mythical All-Frater-
nity basketball squad, winning the honor by virtue of being
the biggest vote-getter in a poll finished last week among

players in the league.

The poll chose Floyd Feeney,
Tom Shaw, Corky Clark, and Per-
rin Anderson as the other mem-
bers of the “Big Five” in the

Kappa Sigma, placed four men on
the two teams to lead the ballot-
ing.

LIKE A
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!

WINSTON brings flavor back

to filter smoking!

@ It didn’t take long for word to get
around campus! Winston’s got real flavor
—the full, rich, tobacco flavor you want.
No wonder so many college men and

Greek cage play. Feeney and Clark] | FIRST TEAM women are getting together on Winston!
. ° were representatives of the cham-| Murray Page ATO .
Greek Tennis Action pion Kappa Sig Club, and Shaw and| Tom Shaw Sigma Chi Along with finer flavor, Winston also
e ° 9 I To Be Held in Tourney | Anderson were selected from the| Perrin Anderson Sigma Chi brings you a finer filter. The exclusive
Wilson- t s nc. A. Heath Whittle, director of the] runner-up Sigma Chis. Floyd Feeney Kappa Sig Winston filter works so effectively, yet
Davidson intramural sports| Selected to the second squad] Corky Clark Kappa Sig lets the flavor come right through to

_ SECOND TEAM

7) program, announced this weekjwere: Doug Andrews of the Phi ou. Easy-drawing—that’s Winston!
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS that the interfraternity tennis com-|Delts, Linnie Baker of the ATOs,t Ooug Andrews Phi Delt ¥ y 6 “
petition will definitely be in the| John Handley of the Pikas, Tom| John Handley Pika
. Cc. form of e tournament this year} Brewer of the Kappa Sigs, Chuck{ Tom Brewer Kappa Sig . * °
DAVIDSON, N. C and that rules and dates for the| Cowles of the Kappa Sigs, and Tom| Linnie Beker .. ATO Smoke WIN STON he aasy-Chawing phen cganetie!
tourney will be set in the near Lambe of the Betas. - Chuck Cowles Kappa Sig R. J. MEYNOLOE TOBACCO CO;, WINSTON-SALEM. HW.
future. The champion of the league,' Tom Lambe Bote

