HOWELL URGES

SPIRIT FROM STUDENTS

— BY —

ALENDA LtuUK

WILDCAT OF WEEK

GORTA LIBERTAS

LEON HOWELL

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1955

PAGE THREE

With the sparkling color and fresh vitality of the autumn
season, football becomes the dominant sport for millions of
people, both in school and the business world. As they line
the stadiums on Saturdays, varied indeed are the motives that
bring them there. The majority come to see its team strive for |
victory, enthralled by the game and all its fascinating facets.
Others enjoy the color of the spectacle, merely being a part!
of this heaving mass. Many, as this Saturday, are seeking a
method to entertain a date.

If five thousand people witness a game, five thousand dis-
tinct impressions are garnered and carried away. No two would
agree on all phases of the determinants of victory. However,
in victory or defeat, all supporters demand a fighting team,
one with the element of spirit.

Webster defines spirit as ‘‘the breath of life or enthusias-| _

tic loyalty.” In the participants the former applies, while the
spectators seem to fall in the latter category. A necessary
component of the athletic scene, spirit is an oft employed and
much maligned word. From all the remote recesses of sport,
spirit looms as one of the key ingredients in success,

In ROTC spirit is known as “esprit de corps’ and leaders
are instructed to instill this in their men. A creative spirit
motivates the work in Shearer Hall, both in song and instru-
mental renditions. A joy seen in growth in knowledge has
brought us together at Davidson, while fraternities are molded
by the idea of brotherhood.

Perhaps one of the worst experiences that can confront a

college man is a date with a beautiful girl that has no per-
sonality or zest. By the same token, nothing disillusions a true
fan more than a team that is mechanically adequate, but that
lacks spirit, or enthusiasm for its task.
‘This spirit, manifested in hustle and “extra effort’, has
carried mediocre groups to great heights. Navy last year cap-
tured the imagination of the nation with its ‘team called de-
sire,” giving more than it possessed and gaining reward be-
yond its paper expectations. Spirit, fired by Podres, led Brook-
lyn to an unprecedented victory over New York.

Presbyterian’s Blue Hose swept into the ‘Cat lair last
Saturday, and ‘fired up’’ as usual, they took the victory. The
breaks went their way, but a tough, heavy line had a lot to do|
with making them.

Although rain made conditions soggy for the second
straight week, the spectators nevertheless saw another dis- |
play of the magnificent passing attack here at Davidson. (Bel:
ton leads conference in passing, Newton in receptions.) For |
the most part, however, the club seemed a little flat.

Perhaps it is good that this sag came before our big con- |
ference battles. The destiny of this year’s aggregation appears
to depend on how it responds to last Saturday’s defeat.

And the bolstering of the spirit has to come in a large
part from the student body. With the bliss of homecoming,

|

there will be no lack of verve on the part of students and their | -

dates tomorrow, even if they are somewhat sleepy. It has to
transcend that, however, and become an ever present state of
pride, hope, and the ability to regenerate animation after
defeat.

For years the cry has gone out concerning the need of a
squad that could win, a team around which the student body
could become unified. This has been done, and without sacri-
ficing the caliber of man that Davidson desired. Endless hours
of tough work, an unusual amount of natural ability, and a de-
sire that is outstanding have been blended to make a good
team.

Just how good it will become seems to me to depend on
each of us—and the manner in which we support them. The
potential is there. The key to success lies within each of us.

W.&L. To Scrap

|

Cats Hope

With Washington and Lee pro
viding the oppositiom, Davidson has
hopes of adding another win to its

| homecoming victory column, just a
it did last when the Cat
soundly beat on outelassed and out

| played West Virginia Tech team. It

year,

|} is believed by some that Washing
}ton and Lee will be in this same
fe | out-classed field because of their
new “Play For Fun” poliey and

j their one vear layoff from inter

| | eGieisistc football. But Coach Car

Half a century of football at Davidson College will be cele-
brated by these prominent citizens when they convene at Davidson
College Saturday for Homecoming. They are members of the 1905

Davidson football team, and are: sitting, left to right, C. Spears
Hicks, Durham banker; R. A. (Bob) Fetzer, University of North
Carolina coach; Dr. Ben R. Lacy, retiring this month as President
of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va.; and C. R.
Williams of Clemson, S. C., the coach. Standing, left to right are
Cc. M. Lentz, Albemarle physician, now deceased; Robert E. Denny,
attorney, Bluemont, Va.; Robert F. Smallwood, New York City
architect; Dr. Gabe H. Croom, Asheville physician; Dr. John W.
Moore, Louisville physician, captain of the team, now deceased;
Nathaniel V. Danie!, retired Oxford lumberman and farmer; J. B.
Huntington, retired Wilmington YMCA secretary; C. S. Stockard,
retired Memphis, Tenn., businessman and farmer; unidentified;
Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, Charlotte physician; the Rev. L. T. Wilds,
deceased, Hendersonville minister; the Rev. J. M. Walker, deceased,
Steele Creek minister; Dr. R. C. Sadler, Whiteville physician; and
Dr. Frederick S. hentai deceased, Petyetiaes ¥ pelolon.

| roll Hambright. who seouted the
Generals in their game with Centre

College last week end, says nea
not so.

Although Centre spoiled Wash
lington and Lee's return to inter
collegiate football by a 247 score

the Generals looked big and fast
Statistics show that W & L was fac
} ing a team that has averaged better

than 400 yards per game on of
fense in three contests. Coach Ham
bright’s scouting report reveals
three distinct things about Wash

lington and Lee in their loss: (1)
| The Generals are big. (2) They are
potentially strong, and (3) opening
}game mistakes proved very costly
to them.

Washington and Lee’s new coach
Bill Chipley,.uses the tight “T” to
take advantage of his team’s size

| His first ‘me is composed of

- DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK EM

Wilson-Wrights is offering a prize

‘ontest. The winner for the first two weeks was Doug Oldenberg with 13
led the panel last week with 9 out of 15.

Linny John Dyke
Baker | MeLauchlin | Little
Wisconsin over So, Cal | Wise | Wise.
Alabama over Tenn. Ala. | Ala.
Ga. Tech over Auburn | Ga. Tech. | Auburn
Citadel over Furman | Citadel Furman
Davidson over W. & L DC iD: ¢:
Duke over Ohio St Ohio St | Duke
Maryland over U.N.C | Md | Md
Baylor over Wash. | Baylor | Bi %
Wake Forest over N. C. St. Ww. F Ww:

VPI over Richmond Rich ns
Virginia over VMI VMI | Va

W. Va. over Wm. & Mary W. Va |W. Va
Rice over SMU Rice SML
UCLA over Stanford UCLA UCLA
Notre Dame over ’ Miteh. St. N. D N. bD

Interfraternity Flickerball Opens as
Kappa Sigs, SPEs, and Pi Kappas Lead

By RALPH TRIPLETTE

The second round of the Inter-|an improved Campus Club team
Fraternity flickerball race found| The Pika’s dropped their second
three teams tied for first place. The| in a row to a fired up S.A.E. team
Kappa Sigs, defending champions,| paced by Baker. Scarborough and
have a 2-0 record which leaves| Reinhart played well in the 12-26
them tied with the SPE’s and Pi|loss. The Phi Gams also dropped
Kappa’s. their second in succession (24-0) to

Last week the Kappa Sigs trim-|a hustling Sigma Chi team which
med the KA’s (33-20), as Bayles} evened its record at 1-1. Anderson
Mack led the SPE’s to a (21-7) vie-| played a good game for the win-
tory over the Betas. Baird led Pi| ners. Andrews and Wood paced the
Kappa Phi to a 19-0 victory over! Phi Delt’s over the ATO's (24-0).

*

On, Wildcats!

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

sem

| Brockenbrough.

| Presbyterian pass play.
}Gene Carter made the field goal

WILDCATS, 16 10 ;

By JEFF SMITH

The Wildeats were outmanned |
| and fairly outplayed in their game |
with Presbyterian last week. Three |
elements in general contributed to
this. The big Blue Stocking line |
proved to be too much for our
pass offense and this told on the|
lack of depth in the Cat forward |
wall. At least five speedy backs |
kept the Presbyterian offense look-
ing pretty sharp all afternoon. Fin. |
ally the Blue Hose spirit never!
seemed to wane whereas the Cat!
enthusiasm only waxed intermitent- |
ly.

At first the teams seemed to be
evenly matched. The two teams
exchanged punts in the opening}
minutes of the game. Belton tHen |
promptly passed successfully to
Gramley, Rowland, and Newton to
put the Cats of the Hose 20 yd. |
line. The next pass was complete
to Smith for a would be score; but
Davidson was penalized. Talbert’s |
field goal attempt was wide. Pres- |
byterian took over on the 20 and.
marched 80 yards to the Cat 20 on |
the running of Butler, Webb, and |
Comer made a}
nice mess up of a near scoring
However,

try for the Hose. Score: 3-0.
From there on it seemed to be
Presbyterian’s game. Our offensive
attempt after returning the kick-off
was dissolved when a Hose line-
man deflected the ball from Dyke
Little’s passing hand into the arms
of Bob Stevens who easily danced
20 yards to paydirt. Stevens also
made the conversion, but the play
was penalized. The second try was
(Continued on Page Four) i

gerne ae "Wao

of $2.50 vorth of merchandise

to the winner of each week's
Tom Newton and George Thomas

Your
Selection

Tony
| Dick

Wise |
Ala |
Ga. Tech |
Furman

D. C

Md
Baylor
EB
Rich
Va
|W Va
SMU

Duke |

| UCLA
| Mich. st

Davidson T

BY BILL PITSER | an

«

sophomore

ior Ike Smith,

MeNeer (180) seniors will be

Brantley (190) will go at the

|

rhe General's backfieid is led by
\lex Pratt, hard running fullback.
itt, who is a junior, made good
of his 200 pounds last week
when he romped for a_ 64-yard

ight seniors, two juniors, and one |
Their forward wall is|
inchored by two giant tackles; jun-|
a 230-pounder and}
enior Dean McKnight, 220-pound-|

Earl Gillespie (200) and Greg
at the
and Lee
guards, | ™
200) |

ls. John Pipkin (185)

nd Senior Dickey Johnson

rts at center

touchdown, Carl Bailey (185) is at| ®

left

two
and Lee triumphed 37-7

nas

half and Don Stine
ht half. Sophomor:
175) will be’ calling s

(170) is at
Pete Doyle
‘nals L

between the
Washington
7-7. Davidson

in the nineteen
|

In the last meetir
schools, in 1953

won four times
series.

The Wildcat of the Week for last week was Tom Newton, lead
ing pass receiver in the Savthorn Conference. > (Ste ) stony next week.)

ame

Campus favorites ...
from every angle...

No guesswork here, Arrow’s new
button-down shirt cops the style lead on
campus with its soft roll collar, full-
length back pleat, back-tollar
button—details you'd expect from
custom shirtmakers! Now

available in authentic plaids and
tattersall checks, $6.95 up.
Combine it with Arrow’, taper
slacks in chino, $5.95

—for the new casual Jock.

mARROin >
CASUAL WEAR
-first in fashion

When you’ve worked pretty late
And the issue looks great...
Why not celebrate! Have a CAMEL!

It's @ psychological fact: Pleasure helps f
your disposition. if you're a smoker, re- [ys
nember — more people get more e Yi ¥

easure from Camels than |

her cigarette!
No other cigarette is so
rich-tasting, yet so mild!

B. J. Berovide Tobsews Ue. Winston Seem. 5s.
