— BY —

TOM OWEN
WILDCAT OF WEEK

LEON HOWELL

The time is now. This is it. Now is the hour. Make or
break. All are terms with practically the same meaning. And
they all apply to one situation as far as we at Davidson are
concerned. That is the Richmond game of tomorrow.

Perhaps this may seem to you to be giving one game, on
a foreign field, too much importance. It may appear that, in
view of a possible loss, the future games would lose importance.
However, this is the way it appears to me and I shall reveal my |
reasons.

Since Davidson College was received into the venerable

old Southern Conference in 1936, the Wildcat football squads | ™

that have represented her have, for the most part, been near
the bottom in league standings. Full of fight, full of hope, the
Cats never stopped battling, but they simply did not have the
equipment to fight the bigger squads with. In fact, the fourth
place finish of last year is the best ever.

Tomorrow, when the red and white uniformed warriors
from D C dash onto the field, they will carry with them the
hopes, the plans, and the vindication of myriads of Davidson
supporters. In the midst of the losing streak of 1953, un-
daunted fans looked ahead to such a day as this. When it ap-
peared that the long walks back to the dressing room after
accepting the consolation of the victorious coach would never
end, Coach Dole looked forward to such a day.

With the outcome of the Richmond game will rest David-
son’s hope of winning its first Conference diadem ever. True,
even if victorious, they would have to get by Furman, but a
defeat in this encounter would close the door on any chance.

In the Spiders the Cats will meet a formidable foe. It is
one that is probably better on paper. Big and fast, they will
present a tremendous challenge to our line. Backs will have to
run a little harder, passes will have to be a little sharper.

In view of all the years labor it represents, of the com-
parative importance it bears, of the part one small error or
break could play, it does not seem quite fair to place such a)
burden on eleven guys, different from you and me only in|
that they are somewhat better equipped physically.

However, between the hours of two and five, the fate of|stay of the Davidson squad for|in high school at Charleston, W
| three years. Working in the shadow} Va., Tom has devoted his time pri-

this year’s team, indeed the place of our generation at David-
son’s fortune will be decided. As the Cats go out to become |
champions or just another average team, the backing of the
student body goes with them. In the interlude I would not be |
surprised if a few selfish prayers were uttered. |

Teams, Here and There |

While the Cats were on the road, the editor spent a couple,
of weekends watching games at other schools. As it turned)
_ out, in both cases, the night was spent in the football dorms, |

located at the University of Tennessee and the University of
Georgia.

Being associated, however briefly, with the typical foot-
ball player who was brought in solely to propound his athletic
skill, made me even more appreciative of the quality of athlete
here at Davidson. With a few notable exceptions, the grant-in-
aid men of these “big-time” schools were interested in nothing
about their school, their team, or their friends. Rather, they
spent their time solely for football and its application to their
own prestige.

No one here at Davidson need ever feel anything other
than pride in the men who are representing their school
around the South. They will be the equal, and, in most cases,
surpass the quality of any other school.

ACP Sports Editors Select Top Ten Teams

The

ALENDA LUX UB)

ORTA LIBERTAS

abidsonian

SIGMA CHIS
FLICKERBALL CHAMPS

PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1955

OWEN IS NAMED WILDCAT OF WEEK

Stetson Falls 25-13

By PHIL KUKURA

This morning at cight the Da-, over 7 yards per carry. Add to this
vidson Wildeats pulled out by bus|the fine air arm of Tom Theo

to keep their date with destiny—

dose and a well-balanced offensive

Two-thirds of one of the biggest
season in Davidson history was
completed as the Cats took a fired
up Stetson Hatter outfit to the

to get up to its early peak again
In the second quarter an inter
cepted pass gave Stetson a
from 25 yards out to pull within

score

Owen moves in to back up play

One of the real veterans on the;
squad, Tom Owen has been a main-

of his more publicized mates, Tom
has been content with the scatter-
ing praise thrown to the lineman. |
Against Stetson last week, though,
his rocking play was impossible to}
ignore |

down field blocks.
An all-stater and all-southern star

marily to football while at David
son. His grim and_ business-like
manner has become an accepted
part of the Davidson football scene.

In the middle of the line at times,
backing up at other times as Da-

The twenty-one year old senior| vidson shifted around during the
is a hard 187 pounder, standing) game, he was in on a number of
5' 10.” Exceptionally strong, his} slashing tackles. All in all Tom
rough and aggressive style has} played his most outstanding game.
given the opposing teams more than |The Davidsonian salutes another
they could handle. Strong on both/ lineman who, by doing his job day
offense and defense, he is particu-| in and day out, makes it possible
larly outstanding when throwing| for the backs to move the ball.

Cross Country
W&L in Triangular

By OYVIND NORSTROM

Davidson's cross country team|tant winner, more than one min-
will enter the last stage of its 1955|/ute in front of Armstrong of
season with a record of 3 wins} W&L
and 3 losses. Last week’s triangu-| The hosts came out of the meet
lar meet in Lexington, Va., gave | with a low score of 27 points, Da-
the harriers a victory over Wash-| vidson, whose 4th and 5th scoring
ington & Lee’s Generals, but the! men were Bill Jackson and Gerald

cleaners 25-13 in Deland, Florida,| striking distance at 13-7, as the
last Saturday night. Despite the half ended
fact that the heat was a disadvan-| In the closing moments of th:
tage, the long trip had sapped/third quarter, Campbell = reju
their strength, and they were na-| venated the local forces with a
turally a little below the peak of pass interception and run to. the
the VMI game, « combination of | 25 of Stetson. Six plays later Bel
ground power and aerial finesse | ton jumped and fired another seo:
was enough to give the Wildeats| ing pass to Newton. After the ex
their fifth victory in six starts. tra point attempt was blocked
Striking with startling ease, the | Ross from Stetson took the kick

Cats rolled to an casy 13-0 lead) off back on an electrifying run for
in the first quarter. Once again | 92 yards, behind fine blocking. This
the Southern Conference's leading | brought the seore up to 19-13. Be
passing tandem clicked, with Dick! fore long however the Cats were
Belton hitting Tom Newton with! knocking again, with Ken Conger

three consecutive completions good | taking a pitehout for 9 yards and}

the final scoring thrust
Although the ground attack was
responsible for more yardage, Bel

for a TD. A few mintues later the
other portion of the Davidson |
“Dynamic Duo.” Dyke Little, hit
Bill Gramley with a pass good for
22. Ralph Setzler followed this with
a 30-yard jaunt and West went in| nected on enough passes to rate
for the score jthem number one and three in the

From this point on the proceed-| Conference. Newton and Gramley
ings turned into a vicious defensive | are again one-two in receptions, ae-
effort on the part of the Davidson | cording to figures released by the
line, as the club never could seem | (Continued On Page Four)

STUDENTS PICK "EM

By JIM OVERALL

threat through. the air and con

John Jackson hit on 13 of 15 to take the prize for the first
week. Each week's winner gets $2.50 worth of goods from Wilson
Wrights.

GAMES OF NOVEMBER 12

Score Score
Davidson vs Wofford
Auburn v Georgia
The Citadel v:. VMI
Florida vs Tennessee
Geo. Washington vs Richmond
LSU vs Miss. State
N. C. State vs. VPI
N. Carolina vs Notre Dame
Ohio State vs lowa
Pittsburg vs. W. Virginia
Purdue vs Northwestern
Rice vs Texas A&M
SMU vs Arkansas
Texas vs ‘TCU
Virginia vs Wake Forest
NAME
Encirele the winner, indicate the score, place in the box in

the Union before 6 p.m., Friday, November 11

Keydets of VMI proved too strong) (Continued On Page Four)
on their own course. ae

The VMI course, which was the
setting of last year’s Conference
meet, was the toughest task the

When the Big Game is done
And your home-team has won...

The “Big Ten,” as rated by As-; 5. UCLA 46 | Davidson team had encountered
sociated Collegiate Press sports edi-| 6. Michigan State 43 | this year, and caused much trouble
tors, including the Davidsonian,| 7. Notre Dame 36 |for the runners. Pete Ashcraft
across the nation, shows that; 8. Duke 26 | tried to stick on in the lead for,
Michigan barely nosed out Mary-| 9. Auburn 25 (the first half of the race, but the
land as the No. 1 football team for} 10. West Virginia 21 terrible up-and-down hills took too

the weekend of October 1415.
Scores follow:

1. Michigan Si adie a
2: Miepieee 5: 106
3. Oklahoma 96
ee ERR ENeeenreers 55

;mueh of his strength, causing him)

Also receiving high mention|to fall back to a seventh place.)
were: Georgia Tech, Texas A.&M.,| Henry Brown crossed the line 10)
and Stanford, Wisconsin, Texas} seconds before him, and Al Elder |
Christian, Taylor, Colorado, and| practically tied track champ Ash- |
Washington were mentioned. craft. Pitkethly of VMI was a dis-

It’s more than mere underwear. Worn
alone or under an Arrow sweater or
shirt, this Arrow T wo-Purpose Tee Shirt
is a campus favorite. Wear it with
comfortable Arrow shorts—they feature
exclusive contour seat that can’t bind!
Boxer shorts in novelty patterns, $1.50.
Tee, from $1.25.

—

To have the most fun—have a CAMEL!
—Mon that!
pleasure

If you're a smoker, remember

— more people get more
pure pleasure from Camels

than from any other cigarette |

No other cigarette is so
rich-tasting, yet so mild!

24 Beyovids Tobecco Cy, Winsteo Salem, N.C.

ton and ‘Little provided a constant}

in the shape of a hulking Rich-| is the result.
mond University team. Tomorrow} Nursing several bruised mem.
at 2 p.m. at the City Stadium in| bers after the jarring scrap with
Richmond, these two clubs meet} Stetson last week, the Cats plan to
for the 12th time The series| be ready to unlease what will have
stands at five wins for each, with} to be their best effort of the sea-
one tie. son. Particularly in the line, where
Smarting from their homecom-/ they will be out-weighed several
ing loss to Villanova last week,| pounds per man, will a top effort
they will be bounding back against) have to be expended
the Davidson Cats. Coach Clements,| Prospects appear bright for a
who saw them perform in Phila-| Davidson upset against Coach Mer
delphia, states flatly that they will | rick's outfit now that the ground
be the best team that DC is to} attack has come along well enough
face. A large and extremely mo-| to give the ever. potent aerial fire-
bile team, their record is not ex-| works some balance Dick and
ceptionally sparkling. but their] Dyke will definitely have to be
competition has included such} hitting this weekend, but, at the
powers as West Virginia. same time, a couple of the run-
Led by Frank Pajaczkowski,| ning backs must spring loose for
whom pro scouts deam as one of| substantial gains

|
|

the outstanding backs in the na- A co-ordinated peak effort will
tion, their running game will bé} have to be attained if the team is
by far the most powerful faced} going to reward Coaches Dole, Cle-
this season. Glenn Riggs and|ments and Hambright with a vie-

Pajaczkowski both are averaging | tory.

SIGMA CHIS WIN FLICKERBALL CROWN

BY BILL PITSER

As the interfraternity football) Jerry Norvell and John Dykers,
season progressed, it became evi | the SAEs gave the SPEs their
dent that the contest between the | worst defeat of the season. Danny
Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis would Crates, Bill Ballentine, Bill Tur-
the telltale game, Wednesday ner and Jack Chipperfield scored
ifternoon proved this to be right,’ for the winners
jas the Sigma Chis, with only one The Phi Delts moved back into
clinched

be

}game remaining, first}a tie with the Kappa Sigs for
| place by beating the Kappa Sigs{second place after’ dropping out
| 43-30. Diek Makepeace proved. a! with a loss to the SPEs 12-7. They

constant threat all afternoon with

| his passing and running, and doubt-
| less the Kappa Sigs would have
}won had it not been for the alert
| defensive work of P. A. Anderson
jand the offensive punch provided

beat the Pi Kappas 24-0 with T.Ds
being scored by Bill Hopper, John
Regen, Doug Andrews, and Clyde
Robinson,

Other action this week saw the
Phii Gams down the Pikas 18-13

by Billy Morris’ three touchdowns.|The ATOs beat the Campus Club
Allen Moore also proved apt to the|and the Betas lost 58-13 to. the
oeeasion by scoring twice. Ralph) Sigma Chis.
{Long and ‘Dan” Cates each scored} Standings:
onee for the Sigs Along with} w L
Makepeace, Thad Kelly made his} Sigma Chi 10 0
presence felt by seoring three Kap Kappa Sig 8 2
pa Sig touchdowns. Tom Brewer! phj Delt 8 2
} sind Joe Hall also added one T.D SPE q 3
apiect ATO 6 3
The most constant winner in re S.:AOE 6 4
cent competiton has been the} Pi Kappa Phi 4 6
| SAEs They took three last week} K. A 3 5
and started this week’s aetion with; Phi Gam 2 6
a 51-18 victory over an SPE team, Pika 1 8
who, by comparative scores, ap-| Beta 1 8
peared to be the favorite. Led by | Campus Club 0 9

|

