BASEBALLERS HIT

CATAWBA
(Page 3)

VOL. XLIV

French Restaurant Is
Sefting for Le Cercle
Francais Rendezvous

Le Cercle Francais had its
regular meeting Tuesday night,
March 13, at the home of Dr. and
Mrs. Goldiere. The large atten-
danee enjoyed a delightful evening
of entertainment and feasting in
the French style. This rather un-
usual type of program was quite
informal—sans minutes, sans roll,
sans business. The members mere-
ly sat comfortably down at tables
and ordered dinner from the ef-
ficient but very busy waiters
Jacques Delpech and Fred Myers.
Of ‘course, M. Crymes the Proprie-
tor of the restaurant attended to
the wants of the more demanding
customers furnishing them with
their choice of red or white wine
fat least that’s what it looked
like.)

Conspicuous among the guests
was “Preacher” ‘Terry, who ap-
plauded loudly when can-can girls
John Harmon and Bill Martin went
through their bumps and grinds to
the exotic rhythm of Dimijian’s
dynamic. derivations. Boatman
Brinkerhoff was also on hand to
man the oars for the performers.
Charlie Robinson provided . the
cigarettes and candy for the cus-
tomers, but they were somewhat
disgruntled to find that every-
thing cost “un sou.”

The meal was really a truimph
of French cuisine, and all the
members fell to without delay.
Mesdames Watts and _ Goldiere,
who were responsible for this
are due a resounding vote of con-
fidence. Other talent was provided
to add to the festivities by MM.
Warlick, Delpech, and Harris, who
acted out an hilarious incident
which might happen in any cafe.
All the members joined into the
atmosphere of the occasion by
singing some old French favorites,

ee

Che Dautdsontan

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1956

ELEVEN CHOSEN FOR

BAKER FUND GRANTS

(D. C. News Bureau)—Twenty-four high school seniors
from ten states today were named winners of Davidson College
competitive scholarships for 1956.

Eleven of them are George F.
Baker scholars. and will receive up
to $5,000 each for four years of
college. In each case the award

scholarships: Peter Kellogg. Win
ston-Salem. and Larry Meyer of St.
| Petersburg, Fla.

Procter and Gamble Co. scholar.

was based on merit and the amount | ship: Scott Pyron of Taylors, S..C.|

of scholarship need.

The 24 were among finalists
sereened from 260 applicants from
all over the South and East.
Twenty-seven came to the David.

son campus for tests and inter:

views last week

The winners were chosen on the
basis of academic record, College
Entrance Fxamination Board
scores. leadership potential, per-
sonal reference and last week’s
tests and interviews.

fo retain the awards ‘for four
years the winners must maintain
high standards in their work at
Davidson.

George F. Baker scholarships be-
gan at Davidson in 1948 when the
George F. Baker trust selected six
institutions from the United States
to administer them. Twenty-three
Davidson students are now en-
rolled as Baker scholars.

The eleven new winners are Jo-
seph Bell of Norfolk, Va.; Tread-
well Davis of Alanta, Ga.; Leland

Edmunds of Newport News, Va.;|

Robert Livingston of Sebring, Fla.;
Brent Martin. of Louisville, Ky.;
and James Owens of Myrtle Beach,
8. C.

Also Lamar Riggs of Little Rock,
Ark.; David Robinson, Jr., of Co-
lumbia, S. C.; Herbert Spivey of
Mt. Gilead, N. C.; John Strange of
Decatur, Ga:; and Dabney Stuart
of Richmond, Va.

Other scholarships are worth up

to $2500 each, and winners are as |

William A. Merchant memorial
scholarship: Perrin Wright of
Lynchburg, Va.

The Curtis B. Johnson scholar-
ships: Mike Gulas of Clarksburg,
W. Va, and Dan McAlister of
Maplewood. N. J

| The C.R ‘Harding: Thad Long
.of Dothan. Ala.

Davidson College Honor scholar-
ships. Carroll Grant of Chester, S.
|C.: Willard James of Brownsville,
;Tenn.: Robert Morrison, Jr., of
; Columbia. S. ¢.; Rudolf Thunberg
of Fayetteville; Bruce Van Sant
of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and Jo-
seph Verreault ot Valdese.

SANDERS, KUYKENDALL, KUKURA AND
BERNHARDT ELECTED TO YMCA POSITIONS

By BOB BEALL

This morning's YMCA. voting re-
sulted in the clection of Rhett
Sanders to the position of Vice
President, John Kuykendall as

Secretary, Phil Kukura, treasurer,! programs so us to make -the sta. /
and John C. Bernhardt Junior; dent. body more aware of the im-i for those considering some phase

Board member.
A run-off for the presidency .of
the YMCA will be held Tuesday

during the Chapel. period between! student body ‘in regard. to the;on Monday. March 26, from 4
Gordon Bondurant, Jim Covington ' chapel programs was also stressed! through 8 pm.

|

‘and Craighton Peden.

BONDURANT
Gordon Bondurant has sérved in
the YMCA as Vice President this

‘

t
‘
t

4

|
|

| choose “for
{

LaFa
Batt

John Bernhardt, Cutting
Win Student Body Offices

By CLAGETT TAYLOR
; Davidsonian Elections Reporter
From the heat of student body elections this week can-
didates LaFar. Batten. Smyth, Bernhardt. and Cutting emerged
as victorious.

Dan LaFar outlasted Bunny Per-' final run-off with Leon Howell in
kinson in’ a run-off battle, which Thursday's. balloting. Batten had
bad seen candidate by candidate stood for a continuation of the
drop by the way side, for the pres-: Morchead Policy and for certain
idency of the student body.

Commenting upon his election”
to the presidency of the Student
Body LaFar said. “Upon choosing
of the complete Student Council.
L plan to first take into considera- held the position of
tion alt of the points brought out treasurer of the student body. This
_ by those candidates who made year be, is rush chairman for SAB
speeches for this. office last Fri-| fraternity and last year was presi-
day." ‘dent of his pledge class. a mem-

Jim Batten was clected editor of; her of the. Chapel Choir, and as
the Davidsonian for next year in alagsistant track manager. Smyth. a

“Hop scholar, holds a Union Carbide
Scholarship and is a chemistry ma-
Rev. James Fogarly
campaign this morning his hope
for an effort to secure student. To Speak Monday
4

jer When asked for a statement by
opinion in the planning of Vesper:
A pre ministerial “get-together,”

'

cd

iv

JIM BATTEN

nu betler campus newspaper .
Ross Smyth was elected first vice

president ef the student body fast

Friday. For the past year he has

Covington brought. forth in his
BI rought form in his the Davidsonian, he said. “I will

.do my best to further the work
'now being carried on by the Stu-
dent Council, and will strive to
carry out those policies which will
do the most for Davidson and her
student body ”

In Tuesday’s balloting John
Bernhardt was elected second vice
' president and Tom Cutting secre:
rlary-treasurer of the student body.
Perhaps known best “as a singer of

portance which programs play in: of the ministry. will be held in
the student life on campus. Ajthe Stndent Lounge of the David
need for more opinion from. the. son College Presbyterian Chureh

ax of prime -importanee. He! fhe principal speaker wilt be
pledged that those whom he would: The Reverend James Fogarty. of
positions on the Yithe Myers Park — Presbyteri

cabinet would-be dedicated men — Church, whe will speak .on the C2mpUs Bernhardt is presently see-

improvements that might make for

secretary. *

ani folk sougs and ballads around the |

DEATH OF ORDERLY
INTEGRATION
(Page 2)

NO. 21

r Elected President:
en Is Chosen Editor

te
6

= =

ll b

Bunny Perkinson congratulates Dan LaFar on his election to
the position of student body president for next year. Perkinson
was runner-up in the contest.

Court Returns To Chapel
Faculty Okays Petitions

By JOHN TRASK, JR.
Davidsonian Staff Writer

1
f

The Student Council. at its March 19 meeting. was in-
fornied that the Faculty had approved its recent petitions for
| the placing of students on the Calendar Committee and the
Religious Exercise Committee.

Also. the Cotneil was infermed f ;
i that the. Chapel Committee had ac.) Of the Court to Chapel. The Coun-

ne LR cE

topping everything off by a vigor- follows:

ous rendition of “La Marseillaise.”

dedicated-first to God and secondly }topic ‘The Mission of. the Parish

‘retary of the sophomore class, sec- ‘cepted its request for the return} cil’s petition was accepted on a

Union. Carbide and Carbon Co./ year and chairman of the Athlet-

to the YMCA.
PEDEN

Craighton Peden is the retiring
chairman af the Southern. Area
Student Council of the YMCA.
The keynote of Peden's cam.
paign was the need for discussion.
He stated as his objectives for
;the YMCA in fhe coming year
the Y program heing centered

‘ies Committee.

In his campaign he. stated as
his objectives the membersinp
meetings program should be in
clusive of the various student in
terest so as not to have a program
independant of the student de-
sires and interests. He advocated

{the advertisement of the Y's pro-
prams in an effort to gain morc

Minister "

Other addresses will be “The
Minister as a Counsetor and Pas-
tor,” by The Reverend Joe Me-
|Clure. Muntersville Presbyterian
Chareh: © Phe Minister as a Preach.
er” The Reverend Jerry .Murray.
Davidson Methodist Church; ‘The
Minister as a Teacher,” The Rev:
erend Samuel Maloney. Professor

-retary of the Eumanean Literary “of the Court of Control. to Chapel
Society. and a member of the, In a’ letter from Dr. Pictenpol,

one year trial basis. It is expected
that the Court of Control will meet

Wrestling team while last year he -pean of the Fuculty, the Council;in Chapel about three. times be-

‘was the treasurer of. the Kappa’ was informed tha€ two student rep-
‘Six pledge class. This past summer resentatives would be placed on
_Rernhardt lived with a family inthe Calendar Committee and on
_Passiu, Germany for six weeks. the Religious Exercise Committee:
Tom Cutting was the outstanding! with gach member having full vot-
“freshman member of Tast fall’s var- ing powers. This action eame as a
sity football team. result) of recent petitions to the

The election uf class officers be

fore Thanksgiving next year.

Councilman Linny Baker gave a
report on the Council's efforts to
obtain an inter-semester break. He
said that Dean Spencer liked the
idea, but suggested that the Coun-
cil emphasize the fact that the

a

PINGS \
¥

__—- ani, Ctr.

f

aml

Officers of the Male Chorus discuss the plans for their Spring
Concert with Mr. Donald Plott, director of the Chorus. Officers
are: left to right, Tom Miller, chaplain; Buster Sharp, coordinator;
Bob Martin, president; Walter Bullock, vice-president; and Harold
McKeithen, secretary.

Makes Five Florida Stops

The Davidson College Male Chorus left yesterday for {sabbatical leave by the college.
Macon, Ga., and the first concert of a nine-day tour through

Georgia and Florida. — .

After spending the night in Ma-
con they will sing in Quincy, Fla.;
tomorrow night, and then on suc-
cessive days in Clearwater, St.
Petersburg. Palm Beach, and De-
Land, Fla. and Waycross, Ga

The 36-voice group is directed
by Donald B. Plott, head of the
Davidson department of music.
Harry A. Wells of Chester, S. C.,
is accompanist.

For the past two decades the
Male Chorus has toured major
cities of the East, Southeast, and
Southwest, and has been heard on
major radio networks.

Mr. Plott is a graduate of the
University of Michigan, and has
been recalled by his alma mater as
guest conductor of the noted Michi-
gan Glee Club. For the past several
summers he has been choral direc-
tor of Transylvania Music Camp
near Brevard, N. C.

The chorus is selected each year
from more than 100 students try-
ing out for the limited number of
places.

Officers: W. Robert Martin, Jr.,
Welsh, La., president; Walter M.
Bullock, High Point, N. C., vice-
president; J. Harold McKeithen,
Jr., Winston-Salem, N. C., secre-
tary; E. Thomas Miller, Hapeville,
Ga., chaplain; and Grant McG.
Sharp, DeLand, Fla., coordinator.

Other members are: Jeter H.

Abernathy, Charlotte, N. C.; John
E. Adkins, Jr., Sumter, S. C.: Gor-
don S. Ballou, Knoxville, -Tenn.:
James G. Boyce, Charlotte. N. G.:
Joseph Brown, III, Springfield, Mo.

Robert W. Buchanan, Winston-
Salem, N. C.; Henry H. Bucher,
Haddonfield, N. J.; Hugh B. Craig,
Concord, N. C.; John C. Crawford,
II, Maryville, Tenn:; Charles H.
Daugherty, Decatur, Ga.

C. Grier Davis, Jr., Asheville, N.
C.; Stuart B. Fountain, High Point,
N. C.; Joseph M. Garrison, Greens:
boro, N. C.; P. Anthony Guiles,
Charlotte, N. C.; L. Hadley Hunt
Pleasant Garden, N. C.

James A. Jones, ITI, Richmond,
Va.; Robert P. Klugh, Union, S.
C.; James M. Kuist, Princeton, N.
J.; Charles I. Loftin, II, Gastonia,
N. C.; John H. MeVay, Front Royal,
Va.

Robert M. Mack, Richmond, Va.:
Edward L. Moore, North Wilkes-
boro, N. C.: H. Stephen Norton,
Virginia Beach, Va.; Douglas W.
Oldenburg, Signal Mountain,
Tenn.; S. Curtis Patterson, Cram.
erton, N. C.

Lawton W. Posey, North Charles.
ton, S. C.; B. Maurice Ritchie,
Concord, N. C.; W. Timothy Tea-
chey, Richmond, Va.; Thomas F.
Thrailkill, Hapeville, Ga.; and Pat
M. Woodward, Quincy, Fla.

|

student participation by those who

otherwise would have no knowl.

edge of the programs of the Y.|
An emphasis 6n more student part-
cipation ag a primary objective

was stated
COVINGTON

Jim Covington has served this, Praycr meetings, was advocated the Pavidsan College Presbyterian

year as leader of the Hall Prayer
meeting phase of the YMCA’s
work.

: Davidson’s Dr. Causey
Male Chorus Spring Tour Wins Fellowship In Spain

Davidson College professor James Y. Causcy has won a
graduate fellowship for study in Spain and has been granted

This fellowship is made possible
through a grant by the Division of
‘Higher Education of the Board. of
, Christian Education of che Presby-
‘terian Church, U. S.

Dr. Causey, a member of the

|

\Noted Bible Professor

To Speak af Vespers

Dr. James T. Cleland, James B.
‘Duke Professor of Preaching in
j the Divinity Schoo! and Dean of
the Chapel, Duke University, will
be the speaker at Vespers on
March 25.

Dr. Cleland is a native of Scot-
‘land and received part of his edu-
‘eation there. He holds the de-
‘grees of M.A. and B.D from Gla-
igow University and S.T.M. and Th.
D. from Union Theological Semi-
nary. New York. He received

,his B.D. with distinction and his

S.T.M. summa cum laude. David-
son College awarded him the D.D.
degree in 1951.

He has taught at Glasgow Uni-
versity Divinity Hall, Amherst
College, Union Theological Semi-
nary, Pacific School of Religion,
and Duke University. He became
a James B. Duke Professor in
1954 and Dean of the Chapel in
1955.

_ Dr. Cleland contributed to Vol-
umes IT and VI of The Interpre-
ter’s Bible.

j the YMCA in the form of adver-; tg Siam (Thailand). The “get-to

' research in this field. and has con. . "€
‘tributed articles to the Modern Cadets.

around the student needs, student, of Bible. Davidson College: and
discuysion groups choosing its OWN ~The Minister as 4 Missionary.” Dr. ‘
speakers with support tor these. Ww. Harding Kueedler, who was for! through — nest week. Voting will

student interest groups: given by! many years a medical missionary’ take place Tuesday for next year’s
editar of Scripts and Pranks, There

rwafl .be no nominations Tuesday.

7 $3000 Collected as
with the text of the, Vesper | Church: . .
speakeér’s message used as a basis! =o¢ -will be an a j D { 6 ft F d
reeree elon for these meetings gies wah ie eee ce DAW FOr GH Tun
e
Nears Its Conclusion

——~ | proups or privately.
Dinner. will be served for $1.25
er plate. .
pers The Davidson College Gift Fund
1s making, final collections of this
year's campaign Don Stewart, in

s e
Davidson ROTC Unit n :
charge of soliciling .the money,
Gels New Daiches expects about $3200 in the final

; * count. Over $3000-in cash has al-
The Davidson College ROTC Unit ready been collected.

has acquired new shoulder patches. ‘This compares very favorably

“new. patches are red and with Jast year when the Student
with the words “Davidson ody donated about. $2700. Stewart

- yan this morning and will continue

tisement and money, but. no direct gether” will conclude with a Com:
supervision by the Y ta be given.: munion service ted by The Rev
A widening of the scope of Hall’ erend Simuel W..Newell, pastor of

|

Davidson. Spanish language faculty |!
since 1948, will tuké his work at/ These
the University of Madrid. He will black.

do research on the modern Span-| Colese inscribod-on them. In the- considers that the increase is due
ish novel. icenter of the patch is woven a fig- jaryely to the fact that there was
Dr. Causey has done previous‘ ure of the Davidson wildcat. These’ 4 definite goal set and that a

\. patches are to be worn by all
regardless of rank, The

Books Abroad, Patches were made available by a
‘ a Davidson’ College

longer period of time was allowed
ifor payment. :

There were two distinct. projects,
presented to the students this
year, One, the Alexander Home
itary scarves 0 thelr regular ee toeak, while. the other
twas cancerned with helping Radio
| Station DYSR in the Philippines
in its attempt to reach more
people

Both needs were presented

Language Journal, ;
and the South Atlantic Modern ‘donation from
Language Bulletin. palumnus..

He holds the rank of Professor The unit has also recently added
at Davidson, and has taught at| mil Se ;
Emory. University, the University | uniform. The new scarves, which
of Alabama, DePauw University,! are worn only by officers in the
and the College of William and: cadet Corps, designate the branch
Mary before coming to Davidson

of which the officer is a member.
He will be accompanied to Spain The following colors and branches
by Mrs. Causey and. their three

are designated: Armor—yellow; Ar- . _ ;
children. Joanne 19. Quth 12, and tillery--scarlet: Infantry. - light: clearly in chapel by Dr. Henry
James. Jr. 10.

i blue: Signal Corps—orange: Medi-: Mack, Dr. Harold P. Ford and Tom
A native of Concord, he grad. | cal. S¢

rvice Corps~ maroon: Quar. ! Northcott who spoke on behalf
uated from the University of Vir. termaster Corps— buff; and Ad- or the radio proses an oe
ginia, received his M.A. degree i jutant Generals Corps—dark blue.| oo iy “Isher °
from North Carolina, and his Ph.D

oo — ______ | and Dr. M. L. Fisher.
from Wisconsin id T B H The dual nature of the project
r
He served as a Naval officer dur- Davi son 0 e os!
i] e
To Science Fair

allowed the contributing student
ing World. War IT, and has had two
The second annual Science Fair

previous scholarships for study in

Spain. They were made possible by

the Institute of International Edu- | of the South Piedmont Region will
cation in 1930, and by the Del be held at Davidson College April
Amo Foundation of Los Angeles! 7,
in 1931.

Dr. Causey has also studied and
travelled in England. France. Swit-

fit. Last year there was only one
project, to provide for teaching
Greek farmers modern agricultural
methods; and two years ago the
‘sole project was helping to re-
The first was held at Catawba, build the local Negro Community
College last year where some 200 Center.
students had exhibits and about’ The two different fields were

‘

to support either cause or {6 pro-;
portion his donation as he saw.

|

, Faculty by the Student Council | break would permit an opportuni:
| The Faculty, however, turned ly. for re-exams.

, down the Couneil’s request to have |.
i student representatives on the Cur-
-ricwlund Committee. The letter
‘from Dean Pictenpol. stated that
the Curriculum Committee would,
nevertheless, call upon the = styp-
dents for.their opinions whenever
their help was needed.

As id result of the Faculty’s ac-
ceptuace of student. members on
the two committees,..President Per-
rin Anderson appointed Council-
men Bill Bondurant and ~ Linny

The. Council was reminded that
a memorial fund has been set up
in memory of Daniel B. ‘Woods.
Any. student who feels that he
would like to contribute to this me-
morial. should contact any Student

| Council member.

Councilman Clyde Robinson gave.
the Council his report on the
North Carolina Student Legisla-
tive Assembly which met in Ra-
Lleigh last fall. He said that he
Baker to the Calendar Committee,}| thought the Assembly was worth-
‘and Councilmen. Ross Smyth andj while. and that Davidson should
Bunny Perkinson to the Religious] continue to send delegates It was
Exercise Committec. pointed out that the regiongl meet-
{ Councilman Vernnn Hunter gave | ing of the Assembly would be held
a report from the Committec on during Spring Frolies week. end.
the Court of Cuntrol, He said that: The selection of delegates will be
‘the Chapel Committce had ac-|-left up to the new Sttident Body
‘cepted its request tor the return President.

‘Roger Wagner Chorale
Artist Series Highlight

By FREDO MYERS

The Roger Wagner Chorale sang on Wednesday evening
in Chambers Auditorium. This program was unquestionably
the highlight of our season. It was. in fact, as remarkable a
‘program as this writer can remember having heard anvwhere.
The music ranged in tone and style from Palestrina to Rogers
and Hammerstein, It is something of an achievement to per-
form so diversified a program with such coherence and disci-

pline as this group demonstrated.

The excerpts from the seldom. Roger. Wagner Chorale made us
heard Idomeneo which the group hear and see the thunder and. the
,Sang ate excellent examples of lightning behind the velvet and
Mozart's dramatic art at its mast! lace.
difficult. Most performances of Mo- lt is regrettable that Brahms and
.zart are altogether unsatisfactory. not intermission should. have fol-
| Wednesday night’s performance : lowed this pinnacle of art. Brahms
‘was a revelation. Mozartian opera after Mozart could not help feeling
is an ornately gilded, highly fash-, anti-climaetic. And the Liebeslie-
ionable, 18th century proscenium, der Waltzes ‘in translation sounded
through which audiences are about one-half as silly as Idomeneo
placed in contact with drama of would. have sounded. Here, the
the nobtest and most powerful perfect enunciation and articula-
order. Too often the interpretative tion of the singers were more a.
level of performance never pene- drawback than an asset, since it.
trates beyond the rococo facade; was impossible to relax and listen ©
the curtain is never raised and the to the music without hearing the

zerland, Italy, Germany, Mexico ' 400 students, teachers and parents. effectively combined in this year’s! soul of Mozart is not revealed.; words. Behold, 1 Build an House,

and Africa.
He will leave for Spain June 1,
and will return in January of 1957,

Gymnasium in one room. | from the Christmas season.

were in attendance, The exhibits | program. Also it was’ wisely de-! This is why He remains the “most. by the contemporary Foss, was per-
will be shown in the Johnston cided to move the campaign away inaccesible"”

of them all. On last haps the highlight of the second-

Wednesday evening, however, the, (Continued On Page Four)
