ENDING THE DRAFT
IS ANOTHER DUD

(Page 2)

Th

¥

VOL. XLV
UNIFIES LIBERAL ARTS

Plans Laid For
Social Seminar

The Interdepartmental Seminar Program at Davidson is
designed to help students “tie together” their own liberal

arts experience.
This program actually originated

‘particular field.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1956

CATS INITIATE
VARSITY SOCCER
(Page 3)

AAU SOMA

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

NO. 3

‘

‘Court of Control Convicts
14 For Breaking Traditions

 |Frosh Accept Verdicts

NO WARNING CARDS

with the faculty in 1955. As a
preparation for the University
Christian Mission of that year, six-
teen members of the faculty met in
a series of discussions on Ethics in.
a Business Society.

During the summer of 1955 sev-
eral faculty members saw that stu-
dents necded to tackle the problem
of tying together their liberal arts
experience regardless of whether
the faculty had or had not already
achieved a working synthesis of its
own. This resulted last year in a
joint student-faculty seminar seek-
ing to tie together this experience.

SUBJECTS

Under the leadership of Profes-
sor Malcolm McAfee of the Soci-
ology Department and Professor
Harold Ford of the Political Science
Department, this seminar program
has been further developed. This
year the students and faculty meet
separately, and the faculty are pur-
suing more intensively the single
problem of the relation of Biblical

Faith and Modern Knowledge. The |

student seminar is now incorpor-
ated into the curriculum as a
course for credit, although the
tendency is to audit it.

The list of topics for 1956-57 af-
fords a better understanding of the
nature of the Seminar: “Social
Science View of Human Nature,”
“Social Science View of Current
Situation,” “Natural Sciences-Model
Building,” “Literature and the Re-
covery of Meaning,” “Music and
Liturgy in the Recovery of Mean-
ing,” “Art in the Recovery of
Meaning.”

Two sessions are devoted to each
topic, with a session being held
every two weeks, For each topic
there is an instructor with theo-
logical training as wel! as an ih-
structor who is a specialist in the

67 EPISCOPALIANS HERE

Construction To Begin

On St. Alba

As far back as 1890 members of the Davidson com

_A typical session consists of a
half hour paper by the instructor
in charge followed by an informal
discussion for about an hour and
a half. The instructors do not at-
tempt to put a framework into the
material, but let each individual
work out hie own “tying together”
of his own liberal arts experience.
PROBLEM STATED

The instructors assume that the
problem in a liberal arts education
is relating one’s basic world views
to the various ways of knowing
about reality. The Seminar thus
revolves mainly around the
sciences and humanities and their
relation to whether one is a skep-
tic, authoritarian, humanist, or
Christian.

At the present time, participa-
tion in the Seminar program is
open only to those recommended
by the individual departments,
jchiefly Political Science, Sociology, '
Musie, and Psychology. Other stu-
dents who might be interested in
‘such a program are invited to dis-
cuss: it with Professor McAfee or
Professor Ford.

$$$ ne

Ed Stewart Wins First
Burlington Scholarship

Edward T. Stewart has been
named the first Burlington Indus-
tries Scholar. Ed is the son of Dr. !
D. H. Stewart. pastor of the First’
Presbyterian Church in Kirkwood. ’
Missouri. : '

His brother, Don Stewart. grad-.
uated from Davidson in May of
this year and received at com-
mencement the Algernon Sidney
Sullivan award.

Stewart is a member of Phi Del-
ta Theta Social Fraternity, publici- “what?”
ty chairman for the Y.M.C.A., a “I said, his name is Bill not|
cheerleader, and a member of the Charlie.”
rack team. “Oh.” said the freshman, “well.
I called him Charlie.”

“T know." I said, “But don't
worry, Bill is mostly a very good
guy and so is Charlie.”

REVIEW TOMORROW

Identify

BY JIM

“Come on,” he said, ‘I’ve

“All right.” I said. “for who?”

“For Charlie .. . the fat one
with the big glasses.”

“No,” I said. “that’s Bill.”

“Anyway,” said the freshman,
“I've got a review tomorrow and
look at this order he gave me,”

n S [ hapel ad he showed me a long list of

munity | 1° cream, hol dogs and cherry

as the revenge-minded Wildcats meet the Blue Hose tomorrow night.
Local merchants got into the spirit of things, boosting the game
and urging students to follow the Cats to Clinton.

A NIGHTLY RITUAL

Coffee, Taik, Pool

It was 10 p. m. and some people, called it the “Onion.”
This freshman called it “the stud.”

Changes Announced
In Notification of Cuts

This year the administration has adopted a new policy
concerning the sending of cards noting excess absences in
both a particular course and a non-academic exercise.

- As in previous years. one proba- . .
tionary absence in each course jg | demic eredit for that. course. Upper-

. . ; on classmen are especially urged to
ermitied. bui there will be no: S255 ij Naren :
tification from the administra: Fatch this 25 per cent limit in their

tion concerning this probationary "U0F subject.

: rhe abse rds are s re-
absence. Two excess absences above The absence cards are sent me

those allowed in the course will re. |v as a reminder: each student iM
sult in the automatic forfeiture TCSPONSMe tor ceping his own a

of all quality points in that course, sence reco The official absence
The administration will notify the TCCOrEes WIN De open tor inspection

student of this loss. : building on Mondays and Wednes-
NON-ACADEMIC CUTS rdays from 10:20 a. m. to 10:40 a.
In the case of non-academie exer: ; mm. and Fridays from 2:45 p.m. to
'eises, one probationary absenec is'3:45 p.m. These records are kept
_also allowed. but a notification of, UP to date as far as is possible.

‘this probationary absence will be
‘Ford Addresses First

vsent ta the student. A second cut
above the total allowed in a non-
academic exercise will result in the

e e
student being restricted to the B F M t g
campus for one month. uSINess- co ee in
Excused absences should be — The Davidson College Business-

cleared from the Dean's office prior. Economies Association wilt hold
to the absence itself. Students are, first mecting of the schovl year

warned that regardless of their; Met Tuesday. at 8:00 p.m in the
caliber of class work. no one may [ballroom of the College Union, Dr.

Union

PAGE for any reason he absent from:

more than 25 per cent of the classes Of Volitical Science Will speak on
in a course and still reecive aca-{ The Economie and Political . Ef-

fect of the Suez Canal Crisis.”
Dr. Ford is in his second year

e
F 'as.a member of the Davidson fac-
inal Date Sel ‘ for “ally, ‘and is a former member of
Fulbright Entries the State Department. Fle is well

qualified to speak on for¢ign af
way. with real girls.” The Institute of International pies and now ney aie
“That's a matter of opinion,” said|Education has announced thes pores ‘ .
a senior. ropening of the competition for. , NEW OFFICERS NAMED
“They'll have to travel some at|gtaduate study abroad under the' ‘The officers for 1956-57 are:
night too,” said a sophomore and!Fulbright Act and the Buenos Richard _Weeks, president: Larry
took out a pencil. Aires Convention for the academic rrotti, vice-president; Roswell Mal
“I don't know.” a junior said,!year 1957-58 lory, seeretary; and John Robin-
and everybody looked at him. “1, The awards are available fort SO". tveasurer. These men are part
was over there this weekend and graduate study in the United King °F the ten member Board of Di-
I couldn't find anybody who knew;dom, France, Germany, Greece. | Pectors who initiate, plan and di-
anything about it. Maybe that|Italy, Austria, Brazil, Cuba, Mexi. (rect the programs of the Associ
means they've picked the girls to|co, Chile and many other coutitries. ; H10N- Two programs have been
go.” |They regularly cover transporta-: Planned for the fall: a third pro-
“Oh. I don’t know,” the fresh-tion, tuition, books and mainten spram is scheduled for December.
man said, “you never can tell, I.ance. The Fulbright awards are’ The Association is composed of
think I'm going to sign up any-|made entirely in the currencies of majors,
the participating countries:

a

got to run stud.”

up right now. A weekend in New
York.’
“Gee,” said a freshman, “all that

Business
those niajors. and others. who are in-

in the old dining hall of Chambers.

P. Ford, Associate Professor |

Economics !

With Proper Humility

The Court of Control held its first trial of the year Mon-

day night in the Green Room of the Student Union.

The members tried to stress the}
importance of the traditions of the j ments and to be restricted. to cam:
Court and of the Freshman regula. pus. The latter was suspended.
tions by constructive discussion’ and
by ‘penalties of the nécessary de-
uree of ‘severity. The freshmen
seemed to realize the significance
of the Court's place on thé David-
son campus and. accepted their
sentenees with expected humility. |

ALL CONVICTED {

At this first Court trial, all of |
the freshmen who were accused!
were convicted, For not wearing:
the required name tag. Bill Cobb, !
Zon White, Jerry Gatis. Freddie! voox
Whitaker, Ted Henry and Madison ; -
; Mauze were sentenced to fold and Henry Ramsey was directed by

‘hand out Davidsonians on Friday | the ‘court to run stud: for the first .'
evenings, floor, eenter, of. Duke dormitory.
and carry laundry, hand out fresh-
man test announcements. and re.
nameé tag nor freshman hat. were ceived a restriction to campus.
‘Marshall Dunaway who was sen-; which was suspended. The court
tenced to run stud for the second; Convicted him of wearing neither
floor of Duke dormitory, east side; b#t nor name tag and of displaying
a cocky attitude in front of the
court. during the chapel exercise.

| Flem Mauncy, sentenced to aid
the football managers amd given a
| suspended restriction to the cam-
, pus. was convicted of bad attitide
‘about putting his freshman hat
on when instructed to do so.
Jimmy Hamilton, convicted of
conduct generally unbecoming to.
a Davidson gentleman and disre-
spect to an upperelassman, wus
sentenced to run stud for the presi- .
dent of the student body for one

SENTENCES
Convicted of wearing neither

(Clint Schaum, sentenced torun stud
ifor the third floor of Duke dor-
{mitory. cast side; Brownie Thur-
inion, sentenced to rim stud for the ’ 1

‘second floor of Duke dormitory, Salk Polio Vaccine

west side: and Bobo MecEachern Available to Students
iWho is to ron stud for the. first;
iHloor Duke dormitory, west side and)
iserve personally..the judge of the available to those students” who
| court, Ile is to carry laundry for | Wauld like to take it. Tt will be
the court members. and hand out|8'Ven On a voluntary basis al a
Freshman test announcements. cost of $3 per shot. :
| Frank Anderson, convicted of; The vaccine must :be ordered in-
iNol wearing a name tag. was sén-| advance, and: all students who wish -
teneed to run stud for the third to take it. should leave their mame
(floor, Duke dormitory, west side,,at the infirmary. no later than ‘Sat-
hand out freshman test announce-,urday, October 13

‘COMMENTS ON ASIA

The Salk. potio vaceine will be.

Templeton Calls Drama

Neglected Religious Field

BY DABNEY STUART
“The Christian church is not American. God loves Ruts-

have indicated an interest in the establishment of an Episco-! .p;, you tell him about the re-

re. ; sow" Tas
pal Church here. |The present officers are: Lt, Col.{ Yew?” ! asked.
Documents now in the possession ; “Sure.” he said
{ Miss Johnsic Shelton, dating /J°hn D. Sapp, Warden; Mr. Thomas , ;
b ck ‘o February, 1890 "pare the S. Saddler, Treasurer; and Mrs. J.’ “Well. what did he say?”
names of twenty-one petitioners |S: Purcell, Secretary. “Well, what do you think,” the
Although the school and towns-| freshman said, “Get the ice cream,

way.”

“Fools rush in,” said the senior
and then we all went down to. get
some coffee.”

PRODUCTION LINE
And tet me tell you that place

itérested in the economic affairs: sians just as much as Americans. There are no denominations
si thie United States and the wont :in- His truth.” Charles B. (Chuck) Templeton spoke these perti-
‘These members, along with the nent words following his sermonette in the Davidson College

facully advisors, put on programs: :
iwhich are presented to the stu. Chapel service, Tuesday, October 2.
Mr. Templeton. whose six day

mission in Charlotte ends today,

fof the Buenos Aires Convention
are provided by the United States.
Government and the host gavern-
ments. .
Several Davidson students have
won Fulbright scholarships. Among
the more recent are Kenneth Wil-

five million in my lifetime.”

-munily. Referring to his statement that

and a list of forty individuals who
pledged a total of five hundred and
nine dollars to be used by the
church in addition to property to
be used as u building site.

CANTERBURY CLUB

Although there is no other writ-
ten evidence of Episcopalian activi-
ties in the community prior to
1955, services have been conducted
in borrowed facilities by visiting
clergy for the past sixty-six years.

Last year the organization of an
Episcopal student group, the Can-
terbury Club, called attention to
the growing interest in the Angli-
can church among the student
body. Now presided over by Bill
Rawls, this group meets cach Sun-
day night in the Student Union
building after Vespers.

In December of 1955 the Bishop
of North Carolina approved a pe-
tition for the establishment of an
Episcopal Mission here, to be
known as “St. Albans.” Its con-
struction near the Phi Gam board-
ing house is scheduled to begin
November 10 of this year. The
church will consist of a chapel
seating sixty-five and a Common
Room for student activities.

NEWTON

Mr. Albert Newton of the St.
Matthews Mission in Mooresville
will serve as Priest-in-charge. The
Chapel will offer proper oppor-
tunity for reaching the sixty-seven
Episcopal students now enrolled at
Davidson and churchmen from the
surrounding area, At present ser-
vices are being held at 8:30 a. m.
on Sunday and 10:20 3. m. Wednes-
day in the basement of Belk dorm.

people have been exceedingly co- hot dogs and then come back and|is really a production line , . . the

operative and helpful in providing | shine some ROTC shoes.”
needed facilities, St. Albans will} “Oh,” I said.

establish the Episcopal Church as; «yeoh,” the freshman said
a definite part of the Davidson'.4 we went to “the stud” or what

» and

community and fulfill a long exist- lthe grandmothers of seniors usually

ing need.

Hall Scheduled For
Vesper Service

Dr. Warner L. Hall, Pastor of the

Covenant Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte, will be guest minister
at Davidson vespers on Sunday
evening.
’ Dr. Hall received his Doctor of
Philosophy degree at the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh. He previously
attended Southwestern in Mem-
phis and the Louisville Theologi-
cal Seminary.

His work with college students
includes very successful pastorates
at the University of Alabama and
the University of Kentucky.
| While at Charlotte, Dr. Hall has
led his church in an extensive
building program. The newly con-
structed church plant {s consid-
ered one of the finest in the Pres- “On well.” he said, “what's the
byterian denomination. use of dreaming. I used to think

Dr. Hall is a member of the about it a lot last year but now it
Davidson College Board of Trus-. doesn’t make any difference. Any-
‘tees. He also served as chairman, way, we've got “Dam Busters” and
,of a special committee organized there's this terrific part see where
to investigate Presbyterian educa-,this girl comes out and...”
tional facilities in North Carolina. | “Sure,” I said and walked over
The new Consolidated Presbyterian to a group standing before a card-
College to be founded at Laurin-| board poster announcing a Thanks-
burg is a result of his committee’s | giving trip to New York by bus.
report. Davidson and Queens, it read. Sign

call The Student Union.

And it's sure a‘nice place alright.
Jackie Gleason. easy chairs and
right then a movie. The big poster
advertising the movie hung on the
wall. It showed a man with a long
pointer and a_ determined look.
“Dam Busters.” the poster read
and inside the ball room TI could
hear the movie making a lot of
noise busting the dams.

“DAM BUSTERS”

“Dam Busters.” a sophomore
said, standing by the door.

“Yeah,” I said.

“I saw it last mgnt but there's’
this part I've just got to see again.
There’s this girl see and...”

“Say.” I said. “What do you say
to Davidson going Co-Ed?”

The sophomore got this kind of
hungry look.

“Co-eds.” he said, “well,
gee ... Co-Eds!"”

Then the excitement died and he
gave this shrug.

now,

end of the counter where they
serve the coffee! First they rattle
down the saucers. Then they rattle

{down the cups. Then they slop in! Bulgin ‘53 far study in G

the coffee. Then, “pass the sugar”
dump, stir. Then “pass the
cream". . squirt, stir. Then rattle,
slurp, suck and rattle and then al-
ways, ... “all over my new crew-
neck sweater!” Then, “that'll be a
nickel,” from Mack or Lewis or
Bob and then 15 minutes ‘later,
“where's mv change ... I gave you
u quarter!”

Over at the table the good talk
continued.

“Say,” a freshman said, “Is this
any good?” He was holding a 35
cent paper-bound book.

“Yeah,” said the owner, “Crime
And Punishment, it’s a pretty good
book.”

‘What's it about?"

“Oh,” said the owner, “T guess
you'd say it was all about Crime
And Punishment.”

“Are there any good parts?”

GOOD PARTS GALORE

‘dent body and the Davidson com-
‘The Association is a vital part -@ppreciated his attentive audience.

son-Joncs fos study in Frarice, ; ae
Tom Deve °55, and. Bob Mitchel! of the ‘community, bringing dis. “Contrary to what I have heard, |

|

~

‘54. for study in Germany, Mae tinguished people in different | lid not find it difficult to speak
, reat {fields to the campus to make talks here,” he smiled.
Britain, Herman Bell ‘54 for #74 hold discussions on topics of FAITH AND DRAMA
istudy in Germany, and John Har. ; Particular interest to the Associa | he ereati a ola
‘mon ‘56. who has only recently ari tien and the student body. e creation of drama holds a
i rived in Germany where’ he will! _ —— high place in Mr. Templeton’s life.
. as i His concern for the communication |
spend a year at the Free Univer. | woes ae
sity of, Borin © \Revely Was Speaker of the Christian faith has spurred
The closing date for the final; oge . jen this interest. ; .
submission of completed onplica-| Af Initial Yy Meefin i rhe Church has missed the ball.
[tions, transcripts and supporting! 7 . } _ | They have failed to take advantage
data is October 31, 1936 Why the Y was the subject of a great medium of communica.
Since it takes considerable time /°! the speech given by Dr. W./tion. A television play into which
to gather the necessary materials, ‘Tuylor Revely at the first Y mem~ a Christian lesson has been skill-
seniors interested in applying for | bership meeting last Monday night. | fully. voven can. be. a powerful in-
these attractive scholarships are | Dr. Revely serves Southwestern | strument. On a single night fifty-
urged to consult with, Dr. George | /niversity. in Memphis PE BaP million people watch a.television
B. Watts, Davidson Fulbright Ad- of Humanities. a ofessor play; I will speak to no more than
| visor, as soon as possible. The program began at 8:00 in
the Union with a devotional by|
Three Delegates Attend Creighton Peden, who is in charge |
College Union Meeting of all Y membership “gatherings. '
Davidson will be represented at cordon Bondurant followed with
— ““ a short explanation of the func-.
‘Teee Southern Convention reeitcay tions of the Board of Directors of |
: ’ ; , the YMCA before the main por-!
in Tuskegee, Alabama this week, (i491 of the meeting got underway.

man has lost sight of who he is. Mr.
Templeton said. “Man won't ques-
tion his faith until he gets into
trouble; The fear of today's dilem-
mas is causing him to ask these
questions. Even if he doesn’t find
the answers immediately. his mind
awakens to discipline and prepara-
tion.”
VALUES

“Too many men of college age-
have accepted a set. of ‘hand me-
down’ values. They have not stop-
ped to analyze themselves.”

A mention of Billy Graham
brought light to Mr. Templeton’'s
eyes.” Billy has grown and matured
in the past five years. He's a ter-
rifie guy.”

In a sort of self-appraisal he con-
tinued, “Our theology differs. as -
do our methods. I try to be honest
and straightforward and [ tend to
be a little more liberal.”

This honesty and straightforward-

‘Iness permeate his conversation. To

any question he has a thoughtful
answer.
CHINA

“Sure,” the owner said, “lots of :by John Trotti. Eddie Booth, and
good parts.” Ralph Bright.

“Listen,” the freshman said, “al-| Shaw Smith. Representative for
ways mark the good parts so you’ District Four of the National As-
can come back to them. I've got;sociation of College Unions, and
one in my room now called ‘Passion ‘Dr. Samuel Spencer, the principal
in the Pines.’ It’s got a lot of good speaker for the Friday night ses-
parts and I’ve marked them all soj sion, will also make the trip. :
I can go back when I want to.” At the first meeting of the Board

“Yeuh,” the owner said, “I see'of Union Committee Chairmen (logical Seminary in Richmond will
what you mean.” | John Trotti was elected Chairman,!be on the campus next Thursday,

The freshman looked at the book and Ed Stevens was elected Sec- Oct. 11. to confer with students
again and then dropped it on jhe | retary. The first constitution for) planning to enroll next year, or
table. the College Union was drafted and . who are considering the possibil-
“I don’t know," he said, “those!is now awaiting official college, its. Conferences ean be arranged

(Continued On Poge Four) approval. through the YMCA office.

A discussion on the subject,
\“Peligious Ethics in Politics,” will
provide the theme of the next!
\Y membership meeting on Oct.
oF.
|

Seminary Meetina
Representatives of Union Theo-

On the subject of Communism he
observed. “Russia did not win
China, America lost it. To the Chi:
nese people any type of existence
jwas better than their own. It was
not Communist ideology that
{swayed them, it was the promise
'/of an improved economy.”

“The great awakening today i.
(lin Asia. The peoples. are begin.
ning to realize their right to inde.
»|pendence. Until the fvee nations
;Tecognize this, the: strife. discord,
CHARLES “CHUCK” TEMPLETON and disunity of today- will con-

“God Loves Russians .. .” tinue.”

t

3

