PAGE FOUR

oA

THE DAVIDSONIAN

H.F.C. Makes Plans, DC Noses W. & L. In

Sets Up Schedule Cross-Country Meet
In E irst Meeting Coach Heath Whittle’s cross.

country squad won one and lost

Presidents of Davidson's honor-| one in the opening triangular meet
ary fraternities met last Wednes-jat Lexington last Saturday. The
day to determine the schedule of| Wildcat harriers nosed out Wash-
the Honorary Fraternity Council| ington and Lee but dropped the

MONDAY
LF. Cc.

| oa

—jbe-—

a bey T2-

INTERCOLLEGIATE SOCCER makes its first appearance on the
local scene this afternoon as the Davidson Varsity plays host to
Duke University in Richardson Stadium at 3:00 p. m. Here Ed
Irvin drives past Gordon Neville in a practice session early this

week.

CRATES 1S CAPTAIN

Varsity Soccer Team
Meets Duke in Opener

Davidson’s soccer team. the first formed since pre-war
days, took the field against Duke in the opener, this after-

noon at 3 p. m.

Danny Crates was clected cap-.

The young ambitious squad.

tain at a squad meeting held Wed-| numbering thirty. will travel to

nesday night.

The first contest. for the Wildcat
booters was played. at Richard-
PPP POPP RP DPD OD PPP OP DOD OPP PDO PLO OD

Davidson’s brand-new Soccer
team absorbed a 10-0 shellack-
ing this afternoon at the hands
of an experienced Duke Blue

Devil squad.

POPPOOPOP POOP VOODOO DOL PHDP POO OOD 4
son Field. the initial test of a six
game schedule. ;

Athletic Director Tom Scott has
named Dr. John W. MeCutchan.
professor of English as Head Soc-
cer Coach.

‘Chapel Hill for a

game with the
Tarheels-later this month and will
meet Washington and Lee on a
home and home basis.
The complete Davidson soccer
schedule:
October 19—North Carolina’ at
Chapel Hill.
Octaber 26—Washington and
Lee, at Davidson.
November. 3—Washington and
Lee, at Lexington.
November. 10—Warren Wilson
College, at Davidson.
November 17—Warren Wilson
College. af Swannanoa. N. C.

State Dept. Needs 400

For Foreign

The United States Foreign

Service

Service will appoint 400 quali-

fied candidates in the next fiscal year. says Richard R. Selby,
Foreign Service Officer from the Department of State. Mr.
Selby spoke to interested students in the Ballroom of the

College Union this morning.
Davidson applicants have .an ac-
ceptance record over the past three
years which is “a little phenome-
nal.” Forty: per cent of candidates
from Davidson have been accepted.
Mr. Selby is one of 25 Foreign
Service Officers currently touring
288 college and university .cam-
puses. These personal
constitute the Department's princi-
ple means of recruiting men for a
career in the Foreign Service.
After completing a prescribed
training program. successful ¢andi-
dates will either be sent to the
State Department in Washington.
or to one of the hundreds of

contacts |

proportions.

“Students interested must apply
to the Department by October 26
Written examinations will be given
in Raleigh and Columbia. S. C.,
on December 8, with interviews to
follow for those under considera-
tion.

Humanities 13-14
(Continued from Page One)

The enlargement of the class de-
pends upon the interest and en-

-thusiasm displayed by the upper

classmen. The initiative’ rests with

American embassies or consulates|the students themselves.

abroad. Opportunities for travel!

according to Selby. are untimited.
The starting salary range. is

tional allowances.
400 appointments in one fiscal

year is a new high for the Foreign:
Service. with only from 50. to 200

Dr. Cumming remarked. “Enroll-
“ment will continue to be selective,
‘for freshmen will remain.”

from $4.750 to $5.350. plus addi-|

-Court of Control

(Continued from Page One)

conduct during the last meeting

men being chosén’ in the past. It; of the court was John Watwood
is probable that after 1957. this, and for failure to wear hat at hat
figure will decrease to its former | check was Don Dublin.

GABRIEL DOOM

ever, thanks to Aceu-Ray.
Take your pleasure big!

IT’S FOR REAL! by Chester Field

Once every month Gabriel Doom
Locked himself up in a sound-proof room;
Then he laughed out loud and rocked with glee
At a life that was funny as life could be!
He laughed at the weather, sunny on Monday
... rainy on Saturday, rainy on Sunday.
He laughed at the news so loaded with grief
that an ax murder came as a pleasant relief!
He cried, “‘what with worry, hurry, and strife
you couldn’t ask for a funnier life!”

monat: In this fast-moving world

it’s good to sit loose, relax and enjoy the
real satisfaction of a real smoke... a
Chesterfield. More real flavor, more
satisfaction and the smoothest smoking

Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield!

for 195657 and to outline plans for
forthcoming activities.

Only minor changes were made
in the schedule of last year. Vari-
ous dates were considered, so that
each honorary fraternity member
would have a minimum of time
conflict.

Secondary discussion centered
around publicity needs of the
honorary fraternities. The council
| agreed to a tentative arrangement
‘for bulletin board information in
ithe College Union lobby and a
j series of informative articles cov-
iering each fraternity in the Da-
vidsonian. Through these two out-
lets. the A.F.C. hopes that fresh-
men and sophomores will become
‘better acquainted with the pur-
poses and goals of Davidson's
honorary fraternities.

Officers of the H.F.G. for this

year are John Gilmer, president: yearbook may be those of the stu-
Pete Ashera(t. vice president; Sam dent's choice.

Sutton. secretary; and Tommy

Rivers. treasurer.

Football Band Gives
First Halftime Show

The 1956 Davidson College foot-
ball band will make its initial half-
time appearance this Saturday at
the Washington and Lee game.

The band has been working for
the last two weeks under the eapa-
ble leadership of Mr. West and

;drum major Scott Puckett to pre-

i pare the show, which will also be
given at the Stetson game on Octo-
- ber 20.

| The band will leave about 3:00
Friday afternoon and stay near
Roanoke, Va.. Friday night. They
will return Saturday night to the
campus, immediately after the
game.

Halftime entertainment at the
game will also include a perform-
ance by the Washington and Lee
band.

Ashcraft Captain Of
Cross-Country Team

Pete Ashcraft, senior from Am-

herst. Massachusetts has been
named captain of the Davidson
cross-country team for the 1956
: season.
_ Asheraft. one of the most bril-
{liant track and cross country men
‘to compete here in years, has been
,@ sensation ever since his fresh-
,man days. The stocky New Eng-
_lander finished third in the South-
ern Conference meet in 1955.

He won the Conference Mile
run last Spring and holds the Da-
vidson school record in the mile
and 880.

Scabbard and Blade
Holds First Meeting

Scabbard and Blade, honorary

military _ fraternity, held — its
orgdnizational meeting Tuesday
night in the ROTC department in
Belk Hall.
' Plans for the annual Fall Tap
|Day were-discussed in addition to
the preposed public service pro-
jects for the year.

Outstanding speakers will be
featured throughout the college
year,

COLLEGE PLAYMATES

( «

F_.

Proving that PLAYBOY is as
popular with the young woman-
about-campus as with her male
counterpart, is the wave of corre-
spondence received from co-eds
like the charmer above. This
lissome co-ed is Susan Counter of
Orange Coast College, Costa Mesa,
California, who says that she would
consider it a great honor to be
chosen as Playmate of the Month.
Her letter of application, alon
with others of its kind, is printe
in the Dear Playboy columns of
the September issue of PLAYBOY
magazine.

decision to V.M.I. in the three-way
meet.
EUMANEAN
On October 25 Davidson travels
to Williamsburg for another tri-
angular with William and Mary
and N. C. State. On October 30
they engage Wake Forest at Win-
ston-Salem.

*Alternate Mondays Beginning
With The IFC On October 3.

Proofs Being Shown
Now In Union

Proofs of the pictures taken for
the Quips and Cranks are now be-
ing shown in the annual office on
the second floor of the College
Union.

These pictures should be
checked by students before next
‘Tuesday so. that the final pictures
which will be presented in the

1. F.C*
(4th Only)

(2nd Only)
(4th Only)

DOLPHINS

You Can Win a Cash Award—

STUDENT COUNCIL*
SIGMA DELTA PSI

PHILANTHROPIC
SIGMA DELTA PSI

STUDENT COUNCIL
GAMMA SIGMA

BEAVER CLUB
UNION COMMITTEE

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 19

HONORARY FRATERNITY COUNCIL 1956-1957 SCHEDULE

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

TUESDAY

SIGMA PI SIGMA
YMCA CABINET

“p” CLUB
LR.C.
(8rd Only)

BUSINESS AND
ECONOMICS COUNCIL
SCABBARD AND
BLADE

PHI MU ALPHA

OMICRON -DELTA
KAPPA

and Scholarship Money for Your College in

Reader’s Digest

$41,000 CONTEST

Open to All College Students (Faculty, too!)

Nothing to buy...nothing to write
...and you may find you know more about

people than you think!

How well do you know human nature? Can you tell
what subjects interest people most? Here is a chance to test your
judgment—show how good an editor you are—and you may win
$5,000 for yourself, plus $5,000 in scholarship funds for your
college.

It’s fun to try. Maybe you can top other students in
colleges across the country . .. and you can match wits with the
editors of Reader’s Digest.

Why do far more college graduates read Reader’s Digest than
any other magazine? What is it that makes the Digest the most
widely read magazine in the world — with 11 million copies
bought each month in the United States, plus 9 million abroad?
Why is it read each month by at least 60 million people, in 12
languages—Arabic, Danish, English, Finnish, French, German,
Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish?

Can you spot in a typical issue of Reader’s Digest the uni-
versal human values that link scholars, statesmen, scientists,
writers, businessmen, housewives? Can you pick out the articles
that will be most popular with the average Digest reader?

You may find... you know more about people than you think!

Here's all you do. Study the descriptions (at right) of the articles in the
October Reader's Digest—or, better still, read the complete articles in the
issue itself, (But you are not required to buy The Reader's Digest to enter
the contest.) Then simply list the six articles—in order of preference—that
you think readers of the magazine will like best. This will be compared with
a nationwide survey conducted among a cross section of Digest subscribers.

Follow the directions given below. Fill in the entry blank, paste it on a
post card, and get it into the mail before the deadline. Additional blanks are
obtainable at your college bookstore.

All entries must be postmarked not later than midnight, October 25, 1956.
Don’t delay. In case of ties, the entry with the earliest postmark will win.

Just pick in order the six articles
you think most readers of October
Reader's Digest will like the best.

READER'S DIGEST COINTEST, ox 4, Great Neck, L. |. New York

In the space opposite the word “FIRST” write the number Fret___
of the article you think will be the most popular of all, Seeeeé,

Opposite the word “SECOND” write the number of the Third

article you think will rank second in popularity. List in this Fi

way the numbers of the six top articles in the order of their orth_-
popularity. (Note:Use only the numbers of articles you choose. Fifth

Do not write tie title of any article.) Clip and paste this cou- Sth

pon on a Government post card.
Nome___ Address, _

Cy State
“ome of college

> > > a SP a oar ay

YOU CAN WIN:
$§000 cash 1* prize

plus $6000 for the scholarship
fund of your college or...

$1000 cash 2” prize
plus $1000 for the scholarship
fund of your college or. . .

Any of TEN $500 cash prizes
plus $500 for the scholarship
fund of your college or...

Any of 100 $10 prizes
in book credit from your
local college bookstore

And if yous entry ia the best from your
college you will receive an extra award
—an additional $10 in book credit
at your college bookstore.

FOLLOW THESE EASY RULES

1. Read the descriptions in this adver-
tisement of the articles that appear in
October Reader’a Digest. Or better,
read the complete articles. Then select
the 6 that you think most readers will
like best.

2.O0n the entry blank at left, write the
number of each article you select. List
them in what you think will be the
order of popularity, from first to sixth
place. Your selections will be judged
by comparison with a national survey
which ranks in order of popularity the
6 articles that readers like best. Fill in
and mail the coupon. All entries must
be postmarked not later than mid-
night, October 26, 1956.

3. This contest is open only to college
students and faculty members in the
U. S., excluding employees of The
Reader's Digest, ite advertising agen-
cies, and their families. It is subject to
all federal, state and local laws and
regulations.

4. Only one entry per person.

5. in case of tles, entries postmarked
earliest will win. Entries will be judged
by O. E. McIntyre, Inc., whose de-
cision will be final. All entries become
property of The Reader's Digest; none
returned.
6. All winners notified by mail. List
of cash-prize winners mailed if you
pncloseaself-addressed, stamped enve-
lope.

ite popularity and influence are world-wide

WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
| SOCIAL
CAMERA CLUB FRATERNITIES

ALPHA EPSILON

DELTA

SIGMA UPSILON

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
SIGMA DELTA Pl

SOCIAL
FRATERNITIES

(2nd Only)

DELTA PHI ALPHA

RED & BLACK

MASQUERS
LE CERCLE
FRANCAIS

ALPHA PSI
OMEGA

Which six articles will readers
of the October Digest like best ?

1. Nerfotk’s friend te troubled teen-agers. Story of the ar.
thritic cripple to whom youngsters flock for advice.

2. The greet Piltdewn heex. How this famed “missing link”
fo human evolution has been proved a fraud from the start.
3. How te sharpen your judgment. Famed author Bertrand
Russell offers six rules to help you form sounder opinions.
4. My most unforgettable chorocter. Fond memories of Con-
aie Mack—who led the Athletics for 50 years.

S. Hew to make peace at the Pentagon. Steps to end ruin-
ous rivalry between our Army, Navy and Air Force.

6. Book condensation: “High, Wide ond Lonesome.” Ha!
Borland’s exciting story of his adventurous boyhood on u
Colorado prairie.

7. Medicine's anime! ploneers. How medical researchers
learn from animals new ways to save human lives.

8. Whot the mess In Moscow meons. Evidence that the
Communist system {fs as unworkable as it is unnatural,
@. Master bridge builder. Introducing David Steinman
world leader in bridge design and construction.

10. Cotlege two years sooner. Here's how extensive experi-
ments proved a bright 10th-grader és ready for college.
11. Laughter the best medicine. Amusing experiences from
everyday life.

12. Whet heppens when we pray fer others? Too often we
pray only for ourselves. Here’s how we gain true rewards
of prayer when we pray for others.

13. Eurepeen vs. U. $. besuties. Why European women are
more glamorous to men.

14, Trading stamps—bonus or bunkym? How much of their
eost is included in the price you pay?

15. Living memorials instood of ewers. A way to honor the
dead by serving the living.

46. le peys te increase your werd power. An entertaining
quia to build your vocabulary.

17. Are we tee soft on young criminals? Why the best way
to cure juvenile delinquency is to punish first offenders.

18. Medicine mon on the Amaszen. How two devoted mis-
slonaries bring medical aid to jungle natives.

1%. Creatures In the night. The fascinating drama of nature
thet Is enacted between dusk and dawn.

20. Whet your sense of humer tells about you. What the
jokes you like, the way you laugh reveal about you.

21. The sub thet wouldn't stay dewn. Stirring saga of the
U.S.S. Squalus’ rescue from a depth of 40 fathoms.

22. Medame Butterfly In bobby sox. How new freedoms have
changed life for Japanese women; what the men think.
23. Doctors should tell patients the wuth. When the doctor
operated, exactly what did he do? Why a written record
of your medical history may someday save your life.

24. “Hew wendertul yeu ore...” Here's why affection
end admiration aren’t much good unless expressed; why
locked-up emotions eventually wither.

25. Horry Hell end @ heertful of children. Story of a farmer
who singlehandedly finds homes for hundreds of Korean
war orphans.

26. Our tex lows meke us dishonest. How unfair tax laws
are causing a serious mora! deterioration.

27. Venereal disease now @ three? te youth. How V.D. is
spreading among teen-agers—and sane advice to victims.
28. Secy. Bensen’s felth In the Americon farmer. Why he
feels farmers, left alone, can often solve their own prob-
lems better than Washington.

29. Your brein’s vnreclized powers. Seven new findings to
help you use your brain more efficiently

90. Beitetn’s indestructible “Old Man.” What Sir Winston
Churchill is doing in retirement.

31. Are juries giving eway feo much money? Fantastic
awards juries hand out because they confuse compassion
with common sense.

32. My lest beet days on earth. In her own words a young
mother, learning she had cancer, tells how she decided to
make this the ‘‘best year of her iife.”

33. Fereign-sid menta. How the billions we've given have
brought mainly disappointment and higher taxes.

24, Out where fet plenes ore born. Story of Edward Air
Force Base, where 10,000 men battle wind, sand and speed
barriers to keep us supreme in the eky.

25. Life In these Untied States. Humorous anecdotes revea!-
tog quirks of human nature.

36. Men's mest pleytul friend: the Lend Otter. Interesting
fects about this amusing animal.

37. Why not @ foreign-service career? How our State Do-
partment is making foreign serviceattractive to young men.
38. A new deal in the old firehouse. How one town got
lower taxes, greater protection combining fire and police.

39%. Crany mon on Cresy Horse. Meet the man whose
statue of an Indian will be the largest in history.

40. Thele business is dynomite. How the manufacture of
this explosive has been made ono of the aafest industries.

41, Hie best customers ore bables. How a kitchen strainer
anda pint of mashed pess became the Gerber Products Co,

42, Smoky Meuntoin magic. Why this, our niost ancient
mountain range, has more visitors than any other.

43. Coll for Mr. Emergency. Mect the Emergency Poll
who get 8 million New Yorkers out of trouble. oy Melee.

44. Beouty by the mile. How landscape engineers prove
roadside planting is lifesaving as well as beautiful.

48. Humer In uniform. True stories of the funny side of
life in our Armed Forces. °

4. Seven econemie fallocies. The American Economi-
Foundation explodes migconceptions sbout our econoiny

47. Admival of the Gleek Ol Plest, Story of Stavros Nine.
choe, who has won s fortune betting on—snd carrying—o1

