Cd ”*

o

JHE USES E A pO OI pO IDOIIE aa a BOGE EET B ESRI DE ADIOS aE Oa EEE TE IO a ROE IER IAT

THE SUMMER SCHOOL DA‘ VIDSONIAN

Volume MDXOXLKMZIIT 7
EA ICG SIERO aI IR a ICICI IR A EAC a

WEDNESDAY NIGHT SOCLALS

This past Wednesday night the College
Union sponsored a wetermelon cutting for
the fifteen or twenty students who were
lucky ‘enough to drop by. A- lack of pub-
licity, caused by the failure of the editor s
to publish a paper last week, was largely
responsible for the sma 11 crowd.

The affair was considered such 4 suc-
cess that it will be repeated next Wednesday.
We teh the bulletin boards for the details,
and be at the Union next Wednesday.

DR. STAPLES ARRIVES ON CAMPUS

Dr. George E. Steples, new Minister
to Students, hes arrived on campus recently
to a ssume his duties. c

Dr. Staples comes well-prepered for his
ta sk. He is e graduste of Presbyteria n
College, has received his'B.D. a nd Th, D.
degrees from Union Seminary, and his M.A.
degree from Columbie University.

_ We welcome Dr. Steples to our college

community end wish him every success in
this new endeavor.

ELEMENTS OF THE GAME OF BRIDGE

First and most important shuffle the
cards (stack them too if you get the chance).
Next the person to the right of the dealer
cuts the deck and tbies to sce the card that
will be on the bottomn, for that will be
the dealer&é. Next, the dealer deals the
cards from the left to right(9rom the bottom
of the deck if need be) until all the cards
have been dealt. ext, the bidding commences
First, havin, looked at none of the cards
dealt to you except the Iast one, begin to
bid this way: If the last card is an ace
open with two of that suit. If the last
card is a king, open with one of that suit.
(All this before you look at the other. cards
mind you) If the jast card is a queen or
jack, turn up the next card. If the next
card is a face card, open with seven no-trump.
Winner take all, atch for future instal-
Iments of the Llements of the Game o ,
Bridge }

by Professor Knoweiteall of Davidson Sollege

LZ 26: ae _ Number 4.
BOR AO Ea ICO OO ORG Onin liek ick 4 toy

MOVIES ARE RESUMED _

Movies, which hove been noticeably
absent from the campus for the past three
er four weeks, will be resumed by the
College Union in the next day or two. One,
the title of which is unknown, is expected
to arrive today and will possibly be
shown tonight. .

Several good films heave been scheduled
and will be shown intermittently during ;
the next two weeks. ,

Watch the Union bulletin board for
date end time!

ELEGY WRITTEN IN A MECKLENEURG MONASBERY
(New translation from the Dead-tired
Scrolls, this one slightly s ad.)

By the highway twenty-one,
In the country called the piedmont,
Stood the building on the campus,
On the green end growing cempus.
There it stood in yellow splendor,
Stood end watched the fifty summers,
(Likewise watched the fifty wfgters))
And it saw the passing student
As they ceme and went to classes.

In its herrt it held the keeper,
Feithful John who's celled "toot toot"
And he loved the aging building

And he oft did chide the students |

When the careless, thoughtless, students
Carved their names into its vitals.

Put the building not complaining,

feught a _ lesson of great patience;

It did not cry with the hurting

Of its often broken windows,

Neither did it flush with anger

When the new dorms celled the students --
Called ond left it neught byt freshmen--
Freshmen boys who did not love her.

But she kept them not. withstanding,

Kept them werm and dry in winter

And she dreamed with’ John the keeper

Of her better days of glory.

So she stood for fifty summers
(Likewise also fifty winters)

fna the new one came behind her
Rising with 9 haughty grandeur
Greatly blessed with siz e and beauty
Which the old one only dreamed of.
