THE DAVIDSONIAN

LEON HOWELL

THE SPECTRE OF SPECTATORITIS

There has been some concerning evidence this year for
the lagging interest in active participation in I F C sports. In
no sport is there a complete league of concerned teams. Those
with a chance at the championship manage to field a repre-
sentative group that plays together over the season, but this
is not so all the way down the line.

On top of that, a decreasing number each year makes use
of the excellent facilities for individual work-outs and in-
formal sporting activity. In view of the fact that an amazingly
large percentage of the Davidson student body gained pro-
ficiency sufficient to letter in at least one high school sport,
this is even more surprising.

Except for those who are actively engaged in a varsity
activity, few indeed are those who maintain any degree of
physical fitness. It has become too easy for us to remain in
our rooms, drop by the stud, or lounge in the frat house to
bother with exerting ourselves.

This is more than just a Davidson enigma. It is, in fact,
a nationwide trend that seems destined to make America into
a country of spectators. Now I am aware of the fact that
studies, organizations, other commitments, etc, eat away at
our time, but there is still plenty left for some daily exercise
that is so necessary to maintaining one’s health and increasing
the zest for other pursuits.

THE WHITE HOUSE LUNCHEON

Last fall the consequences of this attitude on a nation-
wide scale were vividly outlined by distinguished scholars,
athletes, and doctors in a luncheon held at the White House
by President Eisenhower. A simple test to distinguish physical
fitness had been administered to 5000 youngsters in the U. S.
and approximately the same number in Northern Europe.

57.9 percent of the Americans tested failed one of the
six determinates, while only 8.7 percent of the Europeans
failed. These were designed only to determine a minimum
level of fitness, not an opitmum. In short, this indicated that
in some part of his body, the failure did not have sufficient
strength to meet the demands of every day life.

Add to this the fact that around 50 percent of those |
called up for their physicals in World War Il were not able
to serve because of physical inability and you have a shock-
ing, as well as distressing, situation for a country that prides
itself on its hardiness.

The conclusion was drawn that the reasons ranged from |
a captive infancy when most children are in the cradle or
play pen constantly to automobiles and television sets. And it
was brought forcefully home that even a minimum of exer-
cise could have given passing scores on the above tests.

More important to us right now, as we attempt to plod
through an education, is that as prospective “Men in Grey
Flannel Suits” all our education and potential will go to
waste if we succumb to a heart attack, etc. from lack of ade-

quate activity.

THE DAVIDSON P T CONTRIBUTION

By TED DINGLER

ning of the baseball season. This year, the opening has been
accompanied by rain, rain, and more rain. However, the

records of last year, none of the ‘
pitchers this year had the chance preceding one. After scoring four
jlast year to pitch a full game j funs in the first inning, they were

} Coach Clements believes that these held runless while Washington
lmen have the stuff it takes, but| "4 Lee slowly racked up runs
‘i just need experience, which beep score, 11-4.. Moore opened
}exactly what he is giving them, By for Davidson, but was relieved by
Ithe end of the son. we will] Thomas in the 6th and MeCaw in
ti have a top-flight pitching staff ithe 8th. Reagan and Wall were
i}, The club opened against Pres behind the plate
| byterian at) Davidson ‘and won Dagenhart combined beautiful

control with a blazing fast ball t«
ba. a team with strength at every) limit the Generals to three scat
| position, and especially on the|tered hits’ in the first In
jmound. They dropped a close one|the nightcap, Buzzy Hope and
ito Lenoir-Rhyne before leaving on} Shelbourne Wallace got four ot

111-7. They dropped two to. Cataw

Lume

|
ladded one each in the 4th, 5th,| seventh to add two more to the al

ind 6th innings to make it 13-1.) ready lopsided seore. Lefty Dave
Capt. Morris crosses second on a fast double-play. Dagenhart hurled the — entire; Page started strong, but was re
-- —-- - ——-— - aa ae aa ee lieved in the 6th by Tom Moore
a 7 Wall was behind the plate. Cliff
j ' Heathcote for V.M.L.. contributed
pl op -_ heavily to his side as he fanned
‘ seven, hit three singles and added
So far this year the golf team has done a tremendous job, as is shown by their four | three runs in the afternoon
|won and one lost record. There is a large number of men out for the team among which | The team has good hitting
there are many talented freshmen SS ee
iis. ‘ needed experience. Things are
The team is a_ well-balanced Country Club and will add a lot to the team next | ooking better every day
group, every man shooting around Monday, April 16, the Wildeats| year i : joa
the same figure. The depth, rather |} take on North Carolina State at On May 4th, the golfers of Da NOTI
than individual ability, is what has | Charlotte Country Club, and on} yigson journey to Danville, Va oe
sparked the team to its collection Thursday, the nineteenth, they! for the Southern Conference meet There will be a meeting of
| of victories. battle Presbyterian at Myers Park) pr scott will take six men, but those interested in acquiring
Yesterday the Wildcat team Country Club: In past matches Da only four are allowed to play. He the Red Cross instructor’s
played Furman, who beat them) vidson beat both N.C. State and) caid that it will be difficult to pick award on Monday, April 23,

the last time they met, but the re. Presbyterian on ecach’s own home’ pers four entries since the team at 7 p.m. at the pool. Ar-

=. ie oie bo _ ge emg but the matches were very | js so well balaneed rangements will be made at
week s avi nian. le setback | close i ; :
at the hands of the Furman team, Also on Monday, the J. V. team gent ge egtig gy ew 7 aoe pest ge
is the Cat's only loss this season.\ plays a return match with Myers |, 4a et, na : a
. ’ sprees rian. 20'2 to 15%, V 21-9, i i
Today the Cats played the Citadel, Park High Sehool. A. faet to be} sory ' pe ; = hig Mi PP se po a _
whom they had not played before, | noted here is that’ Myers Paselgl « team from alb, a aa pea
. Y | nos

and therefore knew nothing of | number one and number four men | _— : psa pol cas ocala =
their strength. The Cats engaged | are coming to Davidson next year. | x suffers a The eee loss. of the , h - a patio -
Furman at Myers Park Country | Dr. Tom Scott, the golf coach says | Season at the hands of Furman jl pte © administer e
Club and the Citadel at Charlotte | (hat they are both excellent golfers | 26-1. This brings the total to a 41 inal test.

ee The pool is open for re-

iin secede itaeaelet record

Phi Delts Take Volleyball Championship;

- creational swimming from 4
to 6 each week day and from
3 to 5 on Saturdays.

Netters Surprise .. .

To bring it back home, one of the positive ways in which
this condition of unfitness can be met is in the physical edu- |
cation programs of the various educational units. This leads |
me to question more than criticize our own proceedure here.

With major emphasis on the team sports, are we really |
being prepared for any kind of individual activity that we |
can use as we get older and aren’t able to play on a team?
Granted that learning about a sport like Volleyball, Basket- |
ball, Soccer, Softball, etc. increases one’s interest. But it:
seems to me that this will tend to leave us hanging as spec-
tators once we're out of Davidson. Are we as individuals and

as a country really ready to sit back and watch someone else
do the playing?

“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance” ™
126 WEST FIFTH STREET CHARLOTTE

(Continued from Page Three)

Softball Action Will Begin Monday

Tuesday the Phi Delts lead by competition of the tournament has’! — Oe
Jon. Regen downed their closest) not been as keen as that which has |“ a oe — see
opponent, the Sigma Chis, to win, vividly marked the other IFC Seigate sos Ree. oe
the 1956 inter-fraternity volley. sports : gate, showing why they are con-
ball crown and complete = their | sidered one of the country's better
second undefeated year. Team Won —S — to he 81 Panay

In the unofficial standings the  !—Vhi Delt 10 1. soaitton, ie ae
defeated Sigma Chis cinched the 2. Sigma Chi 8 2 Wildeat to. pull ie upset. Kalama-
number two position with a record | “Kappa Su ‘ 2 | 200 Was even tougher. Playing un-
of 8 wins and 2 losses. With make. +—K A 7 3) heatable tennis, they blanked the
= games left to be played, the; 5—ATO ° ° Davidson squad +0 and left the

appa Sigs are in third place ; 6 —SAE 4 2! wiiae siete Pisses

pi mane aielieed psi ot 2-Pilen » 5 sen gu —— at five wins
the end of the regular season are; 8&—Phi Gam 2 6 ae pan ;
the result of the heavy rains which! 9—Independent 2 g} The bri htest outlook for Da
aniiueek’ Uy Gees conaide courts | 10—-Betas 1 5| Vidson tennis is in the future. The
unusable during several days|11-S P E 1 7 squad ee © a building sa ae
scheduled for action. The general | 12-—-Pi Kappa 0 g| Though still a winning group

ee eer pesrasee | they are not the champions of the
last two years. But they can_ be.
| With littl more experience

they should be the equal of any
‘team in the conference. All they
jneed is a little more play under
j their belt And as four of the
top six are freshmen, they've got
|plenty of time in which to get
| that play

Drink
| ™

oO

O

R’
QUALITY MILK

Mooresville
Creamery. Inc.

(Make your pick
the, “pick of the

Is your White Dinner Jacket Clean for Spring

Frolics? If not, Bring it and your Tux Shirt and

Pants to us for our expert attention.

JACKSON

# Members of Spaiding’s'

|
- DAVIDSON |

Besides the blooming of plants, Spring heralds the begin-|

team has had luck in that line, since only one game has}
been rained out
ieniedihn (0 Coach Cleemets game with Reagan and Wall}
‘ : | catching
the only weakness in the club is ati
in its pitching however, — this The second game was a para: |
weakness is because of inexperi dox, for the ‘Cats found them-
ence, not incompetence. By the selves on the receiving end of
what they had dished out in the}

itheir Spring trip. The trip por jthe “Cat's six hits

| duced one game rained out (New: | Tuesday afternoon at Lexing
}berry), and three losses: Robbins; ton. Virginia Military pinned. a}
/AFB, 3-4 and 12. and Mercer.) shutout on Davidson in what had
The ‘Cats got. bac! the swing) promised to be a hard-fought con
jast Saturday agai Washington | test. For the first three innings
and Lee on the home diamond: | there was a real pitcher's duel |
| Davidson broke into a fast lead} going, but V.MJ. broke it up with |
in the opener by pounding out}two in the fourth and five more |
7 runs in the first inning and} jn the sixth to put the game on}
three in the second. Needless to} jee Conklin . of the Keydets
| say, they never lost the lead. They} blasted a 400-ft, homer in’ the

|

Davidson's

this met, the situation being
that the relay winner would
capture the entire team con-
test. Clemson has this year
beaten NC State by 3 points
and may be a hard opponent,
though the meet should bring

—

414

pros--~SPALDING!

(You'll stop a lot of horsehide with*eiher of these fine’
Spalding gloves. These are the very same gloves used!
by two great names in baseball
stop captain of the New. York Giants and Phil
|Rizzuto,* veteran shortstop of the New York Yankees.|
_ Both these gloves are made with the finest leather,
p grease pocket and solid web in trap. You don't!
ihave to break them in; Spalding does that for you. You
‘can see the complete Spalding line of fine gloves at
‘your Spalding dealer's, now.

Alvin Dark,* short-!

SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

— 4
.

Phil Koonce. middle distance
weight ave Bill Gramley, post:
Saturday's meet
be the for

The: opening meet of. the: year
ihere at Davidson before the
| spring holiday ended with an
overwhelming ‘Cat. victory over
Furman and far-travellin Wil
lliams, while Florida State Univer
sity proved too strong. in the field
events in last Saturday's contest
at Macon, Ga rhe — individual
highlights of the season this far
is Asheraft’s smashing - of 51
l year old school record in the 880
yds run

Saturday's meet against

Clemson promises a lot of

fine performances. Last year

the relay proved decisive in

Buzzy Hope, relaying from second, is Davidson's leading hitter.

Track Team Off to Another Brilliant Season;
Koonce, Gramley, Ashcraft Lead Onslaught

powerful track team, headed by sprint star

hamp Pete Ashcraft, and
a 3-1 record when going into

at Richardson Stadium where Clemson will

Coach Whittle his 95th vic-

tory in.22 years of coaching

track here.

The top seorers on this year’s
strong track squad this far (those
having scored 10 or more points):

(1) Phil Koonce 52 points, (2)
Bill Gramley 46, (3) Pete Asheraft

42 ‘2, (4) Al Elder 24, (5) Dave
Regen 2C, (6) Harley Smith and
Oyvind Norstrom, both 16 points,

Seott Woodmansee and Don
Stewart, both 14, (10) Bill Lazen-
by 12 points, (11) Henry Brown
11 and (12) Max Bryan 10

point

HASPEL

Ok eur’

(75% DACRON 25% COTTON)

Take a remarkably
good-looking suit.
bless it with the
attributes of being able
to be washed and worn
the next morning
without need of
ironing...and you've
got an amazingly
practical suit! Just
about a one-suit
wardrobe. Choose
your Sir Perior

from handsome
combinations of coin-
edge stripes in light
and dark tones.

599.75

INCORPORATED
COLLEGIATE FASHIONS

Davidson, N. C.

