FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1956

A Davidsonian
In Germany

(The following is an excerpt
from a letter to a member of
the local community from a
1955 Davidson graduate who is
presently studying in Ger-
many.—Ed.)

_.. ] know that you're interested
in my opinion ‘of the German
women, but I’m afraid that I don’t
have much data on the subject. The
few that I've met and gotten to
know very well have been nice
enough and it’s interesting to try
to break through the language bar-
rier. But most of the German wo-
men don't dress well. are often un-
tidy, and in general don’t look as
good as the American women. Few
of them wear lipstick and none
wear nail polish. However, they're
interesting enough to while the
time away and make things pleas-
ant, but I still prefer my gal in the
States.

There are no American soldiers
here, but there are about 15 Ameri-;
can students here. so that it is!
hard to keep away from them,
sometime. I’m living in a Studen-
theim with about 70 German and’
foreign, male and female students. -
It’s a lot of fun and I've gotten:
to know most of them very well.
but I sometimes wonder when the
German students study. It’s cer-
tainly not very apparent until

they are preparing for final exam-
inations.

In general, I find the German
mentality very hard to understand
and impossible to characterize. In
spite of many apparent similarities
and some American influence here,

ferent and in polar contrast to the
American culture. It has been and,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR——

who told us that to be Christians
we must be in favor of organized:
labor in the South and that we
must integrate.

Or possibly it is to be found in!
the seminar groups where we are

applies it to oneself. If this be
true,

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wide Range of Scholarships

Prof. G. L. Abernethy, Chairman of the Scholarship Com-

then the Bible is on the mittee, has released the following information concerning

will continue to be, I'm sure, a level with the Koran and any| Fellowships dnd graduate Scholarships that are available to

relation-to my studies and in rela-
tion to comparative culture and
de-prrovincializing .. . j

“Atmosphere”
Questioned |

Dear Editor:

One need only to look in one of
our church magazines and one will |
see an advertisement to the effect..
“Send your son to Davidson where
a Christian atmosphere prevails.”

“But where is this Christian atmos-
‘phere? Is it in the Bible class

where God’s Holy Word is taught
to be filled with discrepancies. and
where the faith of many promising
young is destroved so.that they en-
ter life’s mad race with little or
no respect for religion?

Or is this Christian atmosphere
to be found in Religious Emphasis
Week when we had a two-bit poli-
tician whom “that state to the
north of us” repudiated in several
elections, and two other speakers

“A Science As Yet Undiscovered”

Flying Saucer Phenomena
No Hoax, Says Ex-Student

(George 0. Fawcett was 8
student at Davidson in 1948.
Published below are portions
of a summary of his research
into the so-called flying saucer
phenomens which has mysti-
fied the world in recent + cars.
Contrary to the official govern-
mental releases on fhe matter,
Feweett feels that there defi-
nitely is conerete evidence for
the existence of the saucers,
and logical basis for various
vuiher unevplained happenings,
which have other-worldly over-
tones.—Ed.)

Pfe. George D. Fawcett of Mount
Airy, North Carolina, serving with
the U. S. Army at Fort William D.
Davis in the Panama Canal Zone
is presently winding up an eight
and one half year research and in-
vestigation of the “Flying Saucer
Phenomena,” which.has mystified
the whole world in modern times.
Summarizing the saucers he stated
that on the basis of evidence al-
ready gathered in his “Sauceriana
Collection” since 1947 that these
objects indicated a real,
and worldwide phenomena. In ad-
dition he related that in most all
saucer sightings reports of unique
power, speed,
color, shape, size, structure, be-
havior characteristics and patterns
have been observed.

Also Fawcett added

|

that

ageless |

ported in the United States in
1952:)

Pfc. Faweett totd of many of the
“serious handicaps” that he and
other saucer
faced during the course of their
research and investigation over a
period of years. Among these were
the following: (1) The Orson Welles
“Invasion From Mars” 1938 ‘Radio
Broadcast hoax and the misnaming

of the whole phenomena as “Flying:

Saucers,” which from the very be-
ginning made the saucers a sub.

ject of ridicule in a joke-loving :
United States. (2) Official Govern- :

mental and Military Censorship in
,censoring and releasing informa-
1 tion concerning the saucer phenom.
lona to the general public: (3) A-
‘small number of crackpots. re-.
-ligious cranks, publicity hounds,

i tigators have’
ves Nea ors ‘shaped crafts) — 600 to 1.000 feet

nature may be.
Is this the Christian atmosphere
which Davidson advertises?
R. E. G.

Intercollegian
Censored
Dear Editor:

thropic Literary Society the follow-|
ing resolution was passed’ by a
two-thirds majority of the mem-
bers present:

“Be it resolved that the Philan-!
thropic Literary Society hereby
publishes and makes known its dis.‘
approval of the publication en-
titled, The Intercollegian, holding |
the views of that publication to be.
unsound in reason and dangerous |
in implication.”

Sinccrely yours,
Bill Pomeroy
Secretary,
Philanthropic
Literary Society

+

-on a friendly basis.

The five types of flying saucers,
so. tar discovered, regardless of
their origin are as follows:

11) Mother ships (large spindle-

-in length.
(2) Dise-shaped machines (flying
saucer shape)-— large — 100 ft. or |

ships see Prof. Abernethy.
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN

The University of Wisconsin
Graduate School is inviting applica-
tions in all fields of study for 125
fellowships, with stipends ranging
from $400 to $2,000, and for 25

: . graduate scholarships. with stipends
_ Ata recent meeting of the Philan- ranging from $300 to $1,000. Ap-

proximately 800 research and teach-
ing assistantships are also avail-
able. Closing date for applications

to be filed is February 15, 1956.

Interested seniors should write at
once for application blanks to the
Dean of the Graduate School, Uni-

t

i

|

versity of Wisconsin, Madison 6.

Wisconsin.

‘UNIVERSITY Gr =LORIDA

The Graduate School of the Uni:
versity of Florida has announced
that a large number of fellowships
and scholarships are. available for
graduate study during the academic
year 1956-57. Fellowships carry
stipends of $900. $1125 and $1350

‘ships for graduate study. Awards:
earry stipends up to $2400 each |

|

for 9 menths of study. These}

awards require no service. Tuition
scholarships for non-Florida stu-
dents are also available. All appli-

cations for fellowships should be!
filed by March 1, 1956. Catalogs fir a is offering to prospective grad-
and application blanks may be S¢-! wate students twenty-six fellow-
cured by writing to the Director of | ships with stipends ranging from

Admissions. University of Florida, 51,050 to $1,350 and approximately |
‘200 graduate assistantships with
|Stipends varying from $1,000 te
| $2,000. Twenty research assistant-

The Dean of the Graduate School ships in the Institute for Researe

Gainesville, Fla.

CORNELL UNIVERSITY

| very profitable year for me, both in other writing, no matter what its Davidson Seniors. For further information about these Scholar-

matics. Psychology and Sociology.
Interested seniors should write at
once to B. C. Holtzclaw, Dean of
the Graduate School, University of
Richmond, Richmond, Va. The
University of Richmond is also of-
fering two Puryear Fellowships in
the department of Chemistry. They
will pay from $500 to $1,500. Stu-
dents interested in these Chemistry
Fellowships should write to Dr.
William E. Trout, Department of
Chemistry, University of Richmond,
Richmond, Va.

STANFORD UNIVERSITY

The Graduate Division of Stan-
ford University announces that it
has available for 1956-57 approxi-
mately 150 fellowships and scholar-

and are available in a large number
of departments. Applications mus:

must be filed before February 18,
1956. Interested seniors should
write to the Dean of the Graduate
School, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 4, Penn.

FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY

Florida State University offers
opportunity for study leading to
the Master’s degree in approxi-
mately seventy areas in the College
of Arts and Sciences and in various
professional. schools, Graduate as-
sistantships provide stipends vary-
ing from $540 to $1,600 a year.
Graduate fellowships are available
at stipends varying in amount up
to $1,400 a year. Completed appli-
cations for fellowships must be
filed before March 1, 1956. For
further information seniors should
write to the Office of the Dean,
Graduate School, Florida State

University, Tallahassee, Florida.

DUKE UNIVERSITY

The Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences at Duke University is of-
fering a number of Graduate Schol-
arships of $1,000 to $1,500 for first-

PAGE THREE

——————

Offered by Graduate Colleges

"told that the Bible is the Word of!
‘1 have found them to be totally dif-:God only when one reads it and

sity. The stipends vary from $1200 Test for Graduate Study in Busi-'

to $2000. Interested seniors should
write for application blanks and a
descriptive booklet to the Daniel
and Florenee Guggenheim Founda-
tion, 120 Broadway, New York 5,
N. Y.

WESTERN MICHIGAN COLLEGE

Western Michigan College has
announced that ten graduate fel-
lowships are available to students
who, wish to work for the M. A.
in some -speciatized field of Educa-
tion. These fellowships carry stip-
ends of $750. Further information
and application forms may be se-
cured by writing Dr. G. G. Mallin-
son, Director of Graduate Studies,
Western Michigan College, Kala-
mazoo, Michigan.

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

New York University has avail-
able for the academic year 1956-57
a number of fellowships for grad-
uate study. These are available in
a large number of fields of study,
and range in value from $750 to
$1600. Completed applications must

be completed before February 15.) year graduate students who plan be filed by March 1, 1956. Appli-
1956. For forms seniors should to enter the basic fields of Arts,' cation forms may be had from the
write to The Registrar, Stanford! sciences, and Social Studies. Other , Dean of the Graduate School, New

University, Stanford, Calif,

UNIVERSITY OF
NORTH CAROLINA

The University of North Caro-

of Cornell University has. an-! in Social Science are also available

nounced that twenty-two graduate! and carry stipends of $1.350. Ten:

fellowships (carrying stipends of | special scholarships for first year

$1400 plus tuition and fees of | graduate students in
$1000), thirty-five special fellow-| fields of the arts and sciences and] Louis,
ships in the fields of Biological; social sciences are open to stu-. ber of fellowships and scholarships |

the” basic

available graduate

scholarships | York »

University, Washington

range in stipend from $400 to| Square, New York 3, N. Y.

$1,500, Approximately seventy ap-
pointments as Research Assistants
as well as a large number of De-
partmental Assistantships are avail-
able. The value of the stiperids
ranges from $400 to 2,000. Re-

‘quests for information should be
directed to the Dean of the Grad-
uate School, Duke University, Dur-! scholarships cover tuition, room,
ham. North Carolina. The closing : board i
h date for completed applications is
March 1, 1956.

WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY

Washington University in St.
Mo., announces a large num-

more in diameter. Medium — 50 ft. | Sciences. Chemistry. and Engineer- dents of exceptional ability and for graduate study. These awards
ing (cartying stipends wf $1200 to promise. These awards are worth carry stipends that range {rom $450
$2500 plus tuition and fees of $1,000 plus free tuition. All appli-, to $2,200. All holders of fellow-

or more in diameter. Smalt — 8
inches to 10 ft. or more in diame-
ter.

(3) Rocket or cigar-shaped ma-:
chines — 100 to 250 feet long.

(4) Oad-shaped objects — globes.
heels or crescents, diamonds or

t

i

$1000) and thirty tuition se

HARTFORD SEMINARY

The Hartford Theological Semi-
nary has announced the opening
of the annual competition for two
$1000 scholarships for entering stu-
dents ‘who are candidates for the
Bachelor of Divinity degree. The

and incidental expenses.
They are open to graduates of ac-
eredited colleges and universities.
The closing date for applications is
March 1. Applications and further
‘information may be had by writing
the Dean. Hartford Theological
Seminary, Hartford, Conn.

Vv. PL I

Virginia Polytechnic Institute ‘is

holar-;cations and supporting data must|ships and scholarships engage in offering a large number of gradu-

ships of $850 are available for; be filed before March 1, 195€ In-| full-time study and are not ex-.ate assistantships in various de-
formation and application bianks} pected to do teaching or assist in! partments. of graduate study. The
may be secured by writing the |taboratories. Applications must be awards carry stipends ranging from
Dean of the Graduate School. Uni-, filed before March 1, 1956. Informa.’ $1035 to $1560 depending upon

be filed by February 17, 1956. In-
terested seniors should write for

‘graduate study. Applications must.

‘speeds. Purpose

heart-shaped objects, r/_gs, dum:
bells. doughnut-shuped machines.
(5) Green fireballs and red spray-
ing objects — tremendous sizes and
not yet deter.

versity of North Carolina, Chapel | tion and forms may be obtained by | the nature of the appointment and

Hill, N. C. writing to the Office of the Grad.j the qualifications of the applicant.

{uate School, Washington Univer-, Applications must be completed by
| March 15, 1956. Further informa-

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA «it, St Louis, Mo.
| tion may be had from the Director

{further information to the Grad-
uate School. Cornell University, 125
| Day Hall, Ithaca, New York.

UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND ;
The Graduate School of Arts and NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY

mined,
, These different objects and oth-

Force has some of the top scientists
in the United States investigating
,on twa. separate projects, project
“Bluebook” to investigate the sau-

& cer and cigar-shaped crafts’ and
“.: project “Twinkle”

to investigate

a” + the fireball and spraying objects.

. These investigations are located. at
Wright-Patterson /sir Foree Base

maneuverability, and malicious practical jokers that at Dayton, Ohio. Also Fawcett says

did the subject more harm than / that the different varietie , of both
good by reflecting doubt on many | earthly and heaverJy objects have
of the more sincere and reliable| made it very difsicul. for both

the eyewitnesses of the phenomena. | civilian and military investigators

UFO's (Unidentified Flying -Ob-! (4) Unofficial human nature’s cen-| to determine which are which.

jects), the official Air Force name
for the saucer phenomena, give fur-
‘ther evidences of the following:
(A) Intelligent Control, (B) Ap-
pearances in Periodic Cycles of
Time, (C) Landings on Various
Occasions in Recorded History and
(D) An Outer-Space Origin. He
bases his beliefs on the following
facts that support the case for the
flying saucers:

First, Exhaustive Research Has

sorship, which resulted in a na-
tural fear of prejudice, ridicule. |
emotionalism from one’s. friends:
for those persons desiring to re-
port an actual experience with the
saucer phenomena.

More Due This Summer

As for the heavenly objects, the
true flying saucers, he is convinced
that they come from outer-space,
show intelligent-control, appear in

ers are the reasons that the Air

Other Phenomena

During his study of the saucer
phenomena Faweett says his hobby
ran into many other unusual
phenomena, some of which could
possibly be related someday.
Among these many mysteries of
the unknown world around us he
listed the following which he hoped
future science would someday be
able to explain, along with the sau-
cer phenomena. (1) The appearance

disclosed records of sightings cov- periodic cycles of time, especially! of strange creatures on the face of
‘

ering thousands of years.

tin large numbers around every 26 this earth along with the Abomin-

Second, astronomers have been months. In addition reports of land- able Snowmen of the Himalayan
seeing the saucers in space for !N&s have come from every section, Mountains, (2) Mysterious foot-

hundreds of years.

Third, case after case, with pi-
lots’, scientists’, and astronomers’, |
statements that the saucers are con-
trolled machines, with speeds and
maneuvers beyond the power of
any earth made aircraft.

Fourth, simultaneous radar and!
visual sightings and many other
official and unofficial reports of
solid objects behind the mysterious
lights prove the objects are real.

Fifth, countless photographs,
movies, and sketches of identical
objects seen all over the world in
periodic cycles of time. (Fawcett
has over 104 photos since 1941.)

Sixth, the mother-ship reports of
huge cigar-shaped crafts used to
transport the smaller disks through
outer-space, tying it all together
with the space ship answer.

Seventh, worldwide saucer land-
ings, attempted landings and con-
tacts with the saucers and their
occupants. (Fawcett has over 85 re-
ports of landings since 1836 and
says that landings reported in
Europe in 1954 rivaled landings re-

Except for several instances already

of the globe for over a hundred

gaucer reports he believes will,
come im the spring and summer)
of 1956, like they did in 44, 46, 48,
50, 52 and 54.

It is quite possible Fawcett be-
lieves, that many of the earthly
saucers have been launched from
those mysterious submarines sight- |
ed in recent years off the East|
and West coasts of the United
States and other foreign countries. '
Those heavenly saucers could pos-
sibly be linked with the mysterious '
explosions, radio signals, canals and
bridges, lights and flying objects, !
strange geometric shapes and:
clouds and other moving bodies ob-
served on the Moon, Mars, Venus,
other planets and nearby space
throughout history and especially
in the last dozen years. Whether:
or not these objects, both earthly
and heavenly, will be friendly or|
not in future years will depend
upon their point of origin and their!
purpose for appearing in the skies. |

reported, the saucers seem to come

prints and marks on the face of

| years. The next large outhseak of {the earth, (3) The disappearances

'
of people, ships and planes from
the face of the earth, (4) Glasspox,
better known as the cracked wind-
shield mystery, (5) The burrowing
garden hose phenomena, (6) The
appearance of strange sea mon-
sters, (7) Bleeding and weeping of
religious statues, (8) Falling sub-
stances from the skies (ore, wood,
wheat, honey, fish, blood, stones,
meat, frogs, metal, large ice blocks,
cotton fiber, powdered milk, red
rains, blue snows, the Angel Hair
Phenomena), (9) The appearances
of apparations, visions, ghosts, (10)
Mysterious Fires and unusual air
plane crashes, (11) Physie phe-
nomena such as extra sensory per-
ception, mind reading, mental tele-
pathy, precognition, (12) Unusual
cattle and crop destruction, (13)
Movements of large numbers of
people and heavy objects from
place to place and (14) Fireballs
and lights, explosions and earth-
quakes, tricks of nature and cer-
tain legends throughout history.

| Perhaps there is a “Science As

The University. of Richmond
Graduate School is offering six
Williams Fellowships for the ses-
sion 1956-57 to graduate students
working toward the Master’s de-
gree. The Williams Fellowships pay

Sciences of the University of Penn-
sylvania has announced the ‘offer-
ing of a number. of fellowships and
assistantships for graduate study
during the academic year 1956-57.
The awards carry stipends from

from S600. to $1200 each. They! s400 to $1,600 in addition to free
are available in the departments of | tuition. A number of University

Biology. Business Administration, Scholarships granting free tuition’
Economics. English, History, Mathe- are also available.

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS

Yet Undiscovered” states Fawcett
that will someday be able to ex-
plain many of the unknown myster-
ies of today. Perhaps either modern
day science is not as good as it is
cracked up to be or we are living
in a new age, an age of everyday
miracles round about us.

As a final conclusion, he sum-
med up the world situation in view
of recent happenings, as a possible
solution to the unseen and un-
known world around us by a verse
or two taken from the Holy Bible.
From St. Luke 21:25-27 where Jesus
was telling of some of the signs
of His coming again into the

2. abel. > i Lt. ie
z=: "WHADDAYA MEAN MY PAPER AIN'T HANDED IN PROPERLY? >
ER LUCKY YA EVEN GOT A PAPER,”

Applications

by Dick Bibler

- |

world—

“And there shall be signs in the
sun, and in the moon, and in the
stars, and upon the earth distress
of nations, with perplexity, the sea
and the waves roaring; Men's
hearts failing them for fear, and
for looking after those things
which are coming on the earth:
for the powers of heaven shall be
shaken,

And then shall they see the Son
of man coming in a cloud with
power and great glory.”

No one knows, but maybe even
this event, could come in the age
in which we live at the present
time, Faweett concluded.

The Northwestern University
Graduate School is offering a num-
ber of University Fellowships and
Scholarships carrying stipends re-
spectively of $1,775 and $960.
Teaching assistantships carrying
compensation ranging from $900
to $1,300 a year plus tuition are
also available. Completed applica-
tions for these awards must be

filed before: March 1, 1956 in the.

Office of the Graduate School,
Room 215, Pearsons Hall, North-
western University, Evanston, Hl.

UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER

The Center for the Study of
Group Relations and the Depart-
ment of Sociology at the University
of.Rochester have announced that
several graduate assistantships and
fellowships are available for work

toward M. A. degree in sociology...

The stipends range from $600 to
$1,500 plus tuition. Graduate schol-
arships in other departments of
the University of Rochester are
also available. Further information
may be had from the Registrar of

the Graduate School, University of !
Rochester, River Campus Station, |

Rochester 20, New York.
FLETCHER SCHOOL

The Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy has a graduate program
of training for careers in the State
Department, in the United Nations
and various international agencies.
Enrollment is limited to fifty stu-
dents. Several fellowships and
scholarships are offered to students
possessing outstanding personal
and academic qualifications. Appli-
cations must be completed before
February 15, 1956. Information and
forms may be secured by writing
to the Office of the Dean, The
Fletcher School of Law and Diplo-
macy, Tufts University, Medford
55, Mass.

GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION

The Daniel and Florence Gug-
genheim Foundation is offering
twenty fellowships for advanced
professional training in rocket and
jet propulsion engineering and
flight structures. They are awarded
for graduate study at the California
Institute of Technology, Princeton
University and Columbia Univer-

of Graduate Studies, Virginia Poly-
technic Institute, Blacksburg, Va.

BUSINESS TEST

The Admission Test for Graduate
Study in Business, required for en-
trance by a number of graduate
business schools or divisions
throughout the country, will be of-

i fered on three dates during the
coming year, according to Educa-
| tional Testing Service, which pre-
pares and administers the test.

During 1955, many students took
the test. in partial satisfaction of
admission requirements of gradu-
ate business schools which pre-
scribed it. An.ong these institutions
are the graduate business schools
or divisions of the following univer-
sities:

Carnegie Institute of Technology.

Columbia University.

Harvard University.

Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology.

Northwestern University.

Rutgers University.

Seton Hall University.

Syracuse University.

University of Chicago.

University of Michigan.

University of Pennsylvania.

Washington University
Louis).

A candidate must make separate
application for admission to each
business school of his choice and
should inquire of each whether it
wishes him to take the Admission
Test for Graduate Study in Busi-
ness and when. Since many busi-
ness schools select their entering
classes in the spring preceding
their entrance, candidates for ad-
mission to the 1956 classes are ad-
vised to offer the February test,
if possible.

The Admission Test for Graduate
Study in Business is not designed
to test specific knowledge in spe-
cialized academic subjects. Normal
under-graduate training should pro-
vide sufficient general knowledge
to answer the test questions. Sam-
ple questions and information re-

(St.

ness, Educational Testing Service,
20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New
Jersey, at least two weeks before
the testing date desired in order to
allow ETS time to complete the
necessary testing arrangements.

CIVIL SERVICE

A civil service examination for
Medical Biology Technician has
been announced for filling posi-
tions paying from $2,960 to $4,525
a year in various Federal agencies
in Washington, D. C., and vicinity.
Most of the positions to be filled
are in the National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland; and
in Walter Reed Army Medical Cen-
ter, Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology, and Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, Washington, D. C.

The examination includes the
‘following specialized fields: Ani-
mal anatomy, bacteriology, cytolo-
gy, general biology, hematology,
parasitology, pharmacology, phy-
siology, serology, and virus and
rickettsia.

No written test will be given.
The basic requirement for qualifi-
cation is appropriate technical ex-
perience in the field of biology;
however, pertinent graduate or un-
dergraduate college study averag-
ing at least 5 semester hours per
year in the biological sciences may
be substituted for the experience
required for positions paying up
to $3,670 a year. Full details con-
cerning the requirements are given
in the examination announcement
which may be obtained from col-
lege placement offices or from the
U. S. Civic Service Commission,
Washington, D. C. |

Applications for this examination
will be accepted from students who
expect to complete the courses
necessary for qualification within
6 months of the date of filing ap-
plications. Applications will be ac-
cepted until further notice and
must be filed with the Commis-
sion’s Washington office.

FRENCH SCHOLARSHIPS

Opportunities to study or teach
in France during 1956-57 are avail-
able to American graduate stu-
dents, it was announced today by
Kenneth Holland, President of the
Institute of International Educa-
tion, 1 East 67th Street, New York
City.

The French Government is offer-
ing approximately thirty university
fellowships through the Ministry of.
Foreign Affairs and forty teaching
assistantships through the Ministry
of Education. The fellowship
awards are for students with defi-
nité academic projects or study
plans. The assistantships afford
language teaching experience and
an opportunity to become better
acquainted with France.

Nominations of candidates for.
fellowships and assistantships will
be made by a joint committee of
French and American educators
working in cooperation with the
French Cultural Services and the
Institute of International Educa-
tion.

Closing date for application is
February 1, 1956.

The French Government awards
are open to men and women pre-
ferably under 30 years of age. Ap-
plicants must be U. S. citizens.
Other eligibility requirements are:
4 bachelor’s degree from an Ameri-
can college or university by the
time of departure; good academic
record; good knowledge of French;
correct. usage of English; good
moral character, personality and
adaptability; and good health.

Graduate fellowships are open
to students in all fields of study.
In the field of medicine, candidates
must have the M.D. degree. Fel-
lows study in French universities
and other state institutions. These
awards provide tuition and a mo-
dest maintenance.

Since the number of supplemen-
tary travel grants is limited, appli-
cants should be prepared to pay
their own travel.

Applicants for the French Gov-
ernment awards should apply to
the United States Student Depart-
ment of the Institute of Interna-
tional Education.

RETRACTION

The Davidsonian wishes to form-
ally acknowledge an error in edit-
ing and proofing in the last issue.

garding registration for and ad-|The last paragraph of the new ar-

ministration of the test are given
in a Bulletin of Information.

The tests will be administered on
February 2, April 14, and August

tiele concerning Eumenean Literary.
Society was extraneously injected
and does not reflect the opinion of
that organization on the challenge

18 in 1956. Applications and fees| issued by Philanthropic Lite
. . ra
must be filed with the Admission | Society. P id
