The Dauidsonian

EDITOR-IN. _

BUSINESS MANAGER _ 00 ——--____-.. -.-—- - a
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

eee

Assistant Editor —. ..._....... Bob Beall
Managing Editors Lloyd Chapin,
John Trask

_. . John Johnson
Bill Bondurant
. John Trotti

Sports Editor
Feature Editor
Copy Editor

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1956

JIM BATTEN
BOB CARMICHAEL

News Editor ~.... Bill Pomeroy
Staff Photographer Ed Stevens
Assignments .__. Bob Lathan
Advertising Manager Bob Majors
Circulation — Bob Austin,

Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at
Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION,
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

Now or Never For the Court

The fate of the Court of Control will
be decided once and for all in the period
between now and Thanksgiving. These
two months should be sufficient to spell
out success or permanent failure.

Two years ago, inexcusable behavior
by upperclassmen forced the Court to re-
tire from chapel, where formal court
meetings had been held since 1949. Last
fall’s attempts to operate out of chapel
proved absolutely futile.

Threatened with the possibility of dis-
solving the Court permanently, the Stu-
dent Council went to work last winter in
the midst of a full-blown campus furor.

Their recommendations mirrored the
widely-held student belief that to survive,
the Court must perform its function with
a dignity and seriousness of purpose
which would be recognized and respected
as such by both freshmén and upperclass-
men alike.

Accordingly, the Court was re-estab-
lished in chapel, with three meeting;
scheduled between now and Thanksgiv-
ing. The freshmen regulations have been
overhauled, making them more realistic
and reasonable.

This year’s Court was selected with
special care. Each man is well qualified
and intensely interested in making the
new program work. They are men whose
counsel and advice can and should be re-
spected and appreciated by freshmen.

With Rush Week now behind us, the
Court moves into full-scale action. To
date, the attitude of this freshman class

has been the most cooperative and spirit-
ed as any class in recent years. They
chose overwhelmingly by voice vote to
wear their freshman hats to the Catawba
game tonight, when given a chance to
park them for the evening. This spirit
was matched by an enthusiastic pep rally
before the Cake Race.
So far, the class is doing its part.

On the other hand, an example of how
thoughtless horseplay can ruin a good
thing occurred during the running of the
Cake Race, as 25 beanies were lifted from
the gym lockers without trace. They are
Still missing, and the victims have since
replaced them.

New hats cost $1.25 a piece, and a little
righteous indignation on the part of the
freshmen involved would be completely
understandable. We strongly suggest that
the Court investigate the matter
thoroughly, and consider the possibility
of reimbursing the boys affected with
Student Council funds.

The three court chapel meetings should
prove decisive. If upper classes recognize
the situation and show it through their
conduct, in all probability the Court’ will
be well on its way to regaining its posi-
tion on campus.

If rowdyness is the keynote in these
sessions, the Court will undoubtedly be
thrown out of Chapel and into history,
for good.

We may not get another chance to
make it work.

Dorm Facilities Now Best Ever

This summer has witnessed the com-
pletion of another phase of a building
program which has seen nearly every
major building on the campus built or re-
placed in the past 15 years.

To Dr. Cunningham goes the bulk of
the credit for this face-lifting, providing
Davidson now with one of the most at-
tractive and adequate physical plants of
any college in the Southeast.

Returning upperclassmen have noted
with relief the long and nervously awaited
demise of Georgia dormitory. There were
times last year when we were afraid that
Georgia’s end was to be postponed in-
‘ definitely in conjunction with ‘the
Trustees’ decision to up the enroltment in
the next few years.

With Georgia gone, we are able to en-
joy for the first time Belk’s natural con-
tribution to the overall appearance of
the campus. That Georgia's natural
beauty and near-natural plumbing can be
easily forfeited goes without saying.

Completion of “New Rumple” dormi-
tory, still lacking an official name, has
helped take up the slack left by the raz-
ing of Rumple and Georgia. Similar ex-
ternally to East, West, and Watts, the new
dorm sports Belk’s modern decor and
conveniences.

Eu and Phi Halls look more like the
genuine antiques they really are as their

long-overdue renovation nears comple-
tion. The restoration was made possible
by Mrs. Clarence Hodson of Orange, N.
J., who also contributed the Schlicker
organ in the college church.

This work was highlighted by the re-
covery of the now-famed bottle contain-
ing, in the best storybook tradition, a
note left for posterity by a zealous nine-
teenth century Eu. Dated 1849 and signed
by one “A. Alexander” of Charlotte, the
yellowed scrap outlines this history and
work of the society to that date.

While the previously’ mentioned work
drew most of the attention, the three old-
er dorms quietly acquired new bath facili-
ties, plus linoleumed floors and accousti-
cal sound board for the hall ceilings; all
improvements which should prove a real
blessing to’ their predominantly freshmen
inhabitants. With this renovation: com-
plete, dormitory facilities are left without
serious flaw for the first time in years.

But happily enough, there's more to
come, according to Dr. Cunningham’s an-
nouncement that $250,000 has been anon-
ymously donated for expansion of the al-
ready-crowded library. Both additional
shelf and study space will become an ab-
solute necessity with the enrollment in-
crease promised by the Trustees for the
immediate future.

Enrollment Tide Brings Responsibility

The responsibility of a college student
to his family, school, and society has al-
ways been a pretty awesome proposition.

Sacrifices by the home folks to make
college possible loom large to the fresh-
men smart enough to recognize them.
Dreams of success nurtured by parents,
friends and relatives serve as a powerful
inducement to do at least reasonably well.
And the confidence placed in a student
simply by admission should serve as some-
thing of an incentive to justify the faith
shown by the institution.

But in the America of today, with the
expected college-age population soaring

with each successive September there is
a mounting measure of responsibility for
each student fortunate enough to find
himself admitted to an academic com-
munity.

School population increases, presently
playing havoc with primary and secondary
school systems across the country, will
hit the nation’s colleges full force in the
next five years. The prospects have edu-
cational circles in a tizzy.

Despite constantly enlarging capacities,
especially in the state-supported institu-
tions, there remains the sad yet inescapa-
ble fact that there simply won’t be

WALTER L. LINGLE

With the passing of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, one of Davidson
College's greatest friends anti benefactors belongs to the ages.

To recent student generations, he was virtually unknown
personally, due to his failing health which had kept him house-
ridden for several years. And yet the legend lives on of this
great churchman who was president of the college during
thirteen of the most difficult years in its history.

Perhaps Dr. Lingle’s greatest single accomplishment. lies
in the fact that he was able to keep Davidson on a steady foot-
ing in the period that followed the crash of 1929, the year
he came to the presidency. Amid nation-wide economic chaos,
faculty salaries went uncut, and the size of the student body
did not suffer.

Dr. Lingle was also fond of pointing out the additions he
had made to the teaching staff. Several of the most outstanding

members of the current faculty were secured during his ad-

ministration.

The Martin Science Building and the Grey Memorial
Library, both major hubs of activity today, were completed
towards the end of his term in office.

But above and beyond his contributions to higher educa-
tion, Walter Lingle was first of all a churchman and a true man
of God. He perhaps could be called the elder statesman of the
Southern Presbyterian Church, the foremost of his generation.
A familiar and beloved name in Presbyterian homes, his death
will be mourned throughout the church.

And as for Davidsonians, we too, know that we have lost
a dedicated friend.

Dr. Lingle once said, ‘During all these years I have learned
to love the college as I have never loved any other institution.”

The college mourns today this man who so loved her and
greatly aided in the shaping of her destiny.

eee

_-.@ :

—_ _ _ 8
OR. WALTER L. LINGLE

— Letters To The Editor —

Letters to the editor constitute one of the most widely read and
anjoyed, sections of the editorial page. This fact is supported by opinion
polls taken here at Davidson College as well as by larger national
publications.

The editors of the DAVIDSONIAN urge each of you, our readers,
to help make the editorial page both more interesting and a forum of
student opinion by sending us your fetters on subjects of campus ine
terest.

The subject matter for these letters is unrestricted. All sub-
jects, from politics and religion to sports and social life make interest-
ing reading.

You should mail all letters to the DAVIDSONIAN, Davidson, N. C.
All letters must be signed; however, upon request of the author, the
DAVIDSONIAN will withhold the name of the writer of the letter. We
must, nevertheless, have the name for our files.

Share your opinions with the readers of the DAVIOSONIAN, and
mail us your letters of opinion.

Gee,

TOM MORGAN

Live Campaign Issues Demand
Keen, Spirited Student Interest

This fall the United States faces
one of the greatest and most in-
teresting political campaigns in its
history.

This campaign
splendid oppor-
tunity for Da-
vidsonians to
prove that they
are interested
in all aspects
of national
and interna-
tional. problems.
These problems
will be the is-
sues of the cam-
paign.

One of the
major foreign
issues will be whether our battle
against Communism is being waged

presents a

Morgan

AVIDSON
OGGEREL

Faculty meetings have always
been a breeding ground for choice
quotes, and last week was no ex-
ception. It seems that Eumenean's
107-year old bottle was on display
at the meeting, as was the first
lady professor ever to land at
Davidson, Mrs. Caroline MacBray-
er.

Attributed by rumor to any-
one of a number of gentie-
men, it ran; “! never thought
Vd sit in a Davidson faculty
meeting and see a woman at
one end of the table and a
whiskey: bottle at the other.”
Looks like another good year.

a *

The Wildcat boys have always
prided themselves on being keen
judges of the eternal pulchritudin-
ous female. Tradition is still in-
tact, as frosh Bill Stanton holds the
distinction of having pinched Her
Serene Highness, the Princess of
Monaco. .. . on the shoulder, of.
course.

Says she gave him a “kinda
icy smile.”

enough room.

Competition for admission to colleges
and universities is bound to become in-
creasingly intense in the immediate
future. For each student accepted, there
will be several turned away.

At a small, privately endowed school of
limited enrollment like Davidson, this
situation will be especially true. Figures
from Dean Spencer's office show that out
of 700 original applications for entrance
with this year’s freshman class, only 240
actually enrolled, with the some 460 odd
other prospects lost due to rejections,
voluntary withdrawals, and incompleted
applications.

In addition, it must be remembered
that these figures do not tell the complete
story, since an ,indeterminable number

of potential prospects each year eliminate
themselves voluntarily, due to Davidson's
scholastic standards, and never even noti-
fy the college of their interest.

Due to the very nature and purpose of
the college, this situation, caused by the
increasingly competitive admission pro-
cesses, will grow in proportion each year.

So to the traditional responsibility to
self, family and school, of “making good”
in the college world, comes the added
weighty realization that highly selective
admission to an institution of higher
learning carries with it today an added
measure of trust.

It is the trust not only of home and col-

lege, but of the country, and indeed, of
our atomic civilization.

suécessfully and with the best pos-
sible reason. An: issue which con-
cerns both forcign and domestic
policy is the size of our military
forces. Should all emphasis be
placed on air power and nuclear
warfare or ‘should we remain pre-
pared for Korean “skermishes?”

Though these issues are ex-
pressed here in only a few
words, they may be crucial in
the election, if the American
people can be aroused to a
genuine interest in foreign
policy.

Issues on the home front are
numerous. These include imple-
mentation of the Supreme Court
desegregation decision, private use
of atomic energy, farm price sup-
ports, the effect of automation on
labor, public power projects. cx-
tension of public health services,

‘and conservation of natural ro-

sources,

An issue encompassing all
the others is the conception
of the office of president. To
this office which has been
strongly molded by five terms
of Democrats, President Eisen-
hower has brought a mititary-
like delegation of authority
and yielded supremacy to the
legislative branch of the gov-
ernment. The question here
will be whether the people
want this weaker conception
of the office or a return to a
strong Democratic chief exec-
utive,

From this discussion it should
be obvious this year’s election will
be a crucial one. Since Davidson
attempts to build good citizens,
we must not let this election pass
without the whole student body’s
having taken an active interest in
the issues.

ACROSS THE

PRESIDENT’S DESK

DAN LaFAR

PRESIDENT OF THE
STUDENT BODY

IT was informed at the Charlotte
office of the Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company last week that
only under heavy additional phone
charges would we be able to se-
cure the desired arrangement.

I have investigated the possi-
bility of a “Foreign Exchange” ser-
vice. This service would place one
telephone on a direct line with
Charlotte, meaning that calls could
be-made to Charlotte on this phone
on a local rather than a long dis-
tance basis.

The telephone would be placed
in the College Union and a charge
of 20 cent or 25 cent would be
made for each call. There would

This can be accomplished in a
number of ways. After having
chosen our personal candidate on
the basis of party loyalty or inde-
pendent examination of platforms
and candidates, we should seek to
support him among our fellow stu-
dents in conversation and bull ses-
sions.

We should wear lapel pins
since this serves the twofold
purpose of advertising our
candidate and reminding
other students that this is an
election year.

Whether one can vote or not,
he can and should enter the
campus activity planned for this
fall. First, join the club on campus
representing the party of your
choice. The Young Republicans
Club and the newly organized
Young Democrats Club both have
planned interesting activities for
the election season.

Take advantage of the pro-
grams planned by the Effec-
tive Citkenship Commission
of the YMCA. Foremost among
these is the political emphasis
week set for October 23-25.

Finally remember that no one
can effectively choose or support
candidates without keeping abreast
of their latest moves and the
changes in the national situation.
Begin to spend some of your
“goof-off” time watching or listen-
ing to the candidates major
speeches and reading daily news-
Papers and weekly newsmagazines.

Above all, everyone must at-
tempt to catch up the spirit and
excitement of a political. campaign
and spread it to others. As each
of us seeks to do this we will be
taking an active part in the gov-
ernment of our country and train-
ing for the leadership we may
assume in the future.

te —— pee

be no time limit except in the case
where another student was waiting
desiring to place a calf, in which
case we could place a maximum
tirre limit of five minutes upon
the call.

When compared with the present
rate (person to person) or 65 cents
for three minutes or with the seven
mile drive to Huntersville plus a
pay phone, the “Foreign Exchange”
seems desirable.

Please make your opinions
known, whether for or against, to
the Student Government office up-
stairs in the Union open from 1:30
to 3:00 p. m. each day.
