Gaus from the wrld of Literature
Exeervts from the Dead-Tired Scro

MEDITATION I

1. And it came to pass in these days that there vent out a decree from Samuel Spencer
that all the children should cease to detonate danger-us firecrackers in their dwelling.
2, (And this decree was first made when Slick John, the Divine, was ruler . ver
Davidson, ) .

3. And every man then devarted even unto his own place and thought on this thing which
had ome to ».ass, which Samuel had made knw unto them.

4. And in his heart, each man was glad, for they had been sorely distressed with the
combustinn and sudden naises in the night watches.

MEDITATION II

1. Now after Samuel had snnken before the multitude in Davidsen in the days of
Cunningham the mighty, tehold, there came wise guys in the night ty the dormitory,

2. Saying among themselves, "Who is this man to say these things unto us, for lo, are
we not free men?"

3. Aud is there not given unt~ us certain rights that. ve may say phooey, and it is
phooey, And if we choose tn detonate firecrackers and startle our fellows, who is this
man t- say yea, or nay?

4. So they came with haste and f und fire-rackers and at-hes and darkness all together,
5. And they trok the firecrackers and did detonate them with reseunding great noise and
@id awaken others sorely in nsod of sleap, and great was the crash therenf,

6, And when Sameul heard of this thing, h2 “as sorely troubled, and all the Davidson -
men with him, for these wise guys were not acting with reapect for their fellows,

MEDITATION III

1. But never-the~less, there was suddenly with these wise guyS, a goodly number,
raising their v-ices and saying, Phooey tn Samuel, the Dean, and unto all our fellows,
let every night souid even as the Fourth of July.

MEDIRATION IV

1. But behold, I onen mv mows and say unto you:

2. Blessed are those who study, for they shall remain,

3. Blessed are those whr natiently ercure the noise, for it shall eventually cease.

4. Blessed are the pure in heart, fer they shall have the love of their fellows, neither
shall they run the risk of discipline.

5. Unfortunate are you vhon mon shall pop firecracktrs around you, and make noise, and
disturb you, for it is unnecs-sar;,

6. But take comfert, for sc persecuted they those who suffered in like maimer before

you,
MEDIT&TION V

1. Suffer the little children to »en their firecrackers, for of such is the evidence of

their youth,
2, But I say unto you, when thou studiest, be not as the little children who make commee

tion that they may be seen of men, for they have their reward.

3, But when thou studiest, enter into the quietness of thy reom and do that which thou
hast toddo, and learn vell, and let thy fellows do likewise, for great shall be thyy
reward at graduation.

———Hritten by a Unanimous author oc, 1669
This paper is edited by Brice-Majors Newspapers, Inc.
