DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DIRECTORY

(Pages 2, 5)

VOL. XLV

oh

ye Dautdsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1956

RIFLE TEAM OPENS
WITH P. C.
(Page 4)

NO.

ROTC Revision Increases
Staff Officers’ Duties

Several noteworthy changes were in evidence as the giving holidays. composed of forty-
ROTC Cadet Regiment held its first drill of the year last Tues- one students from Davidson and

day, September 25.

For the first time in the recent
history of the Regiment there are
complete staffs at both the Regi-
mental and Battalion levels. Most
of the work now assigned to these
staff officers had been handled
in the past by the Cadre. MSIII
Cadets also have been assigned
staff functions, each MSIV staff -of-
ficer having an MSIII Cadet to
assist him in his duties.

The whole concept of a staff
officer's responsibility within the
Regiment has been changed and
his job has been made one of the
most important, and integral in
the whole Regiment.

The complete roster of all Cadets
and. their assignments and duties

and the Regimental staff. The
headquarters give the staff more
room in which to work and operate
efficiently.

A conference room has also been
provided, A message center,
where Cadets may communicate
with each other and with the
Cadre, has been established. This
has proved to be one of the great-
est assets to communication with-
in the Regiment.

This year the Cadet Corps is the

largest it has ever been, thus pre-
senting a greater. challenge to the
Cadet officers.

DC and Queens Plan
Trip to New York

The Union Travel Committee is
sponsoring this year a bus tour
to New York during the Thanks-

Queens.

The tour will leave Wednes-
day the 22nd of November, and
| travel directly by bus to New York.
Although most of the tour mem-
bers will plan to be accommodated
‘together at the Century Hotel, in-
dividuals who have other means
of lodging may make the trip at
a reduced rate.

Henry Parrish, the director of
the tour, has indicated that only
one evening's entertainment will
be plarined for the entire group.
This evening will consist of a
. Broadway musical, after which the
group will go to the Statler Hotel
where the Dorsey Brothers are
featured.

For the rest of the weekend,
students will be free to plan. their

Maltby Will Entertain
e Weekend

Court Appeals For
Upperclass Backing

The Court of Control has started
its campaign this year with the
policy of cracking down on the
freshman. Reitzel Snider, Judge
of the Court, has said that there
will be a more intensive check
made for freshman without hats
or nametags.

Snider also pointed out that
there will be more individual test-
ing on the knowledge of _ yells,
freshman regulations, ete. With

the endorsement of the IFC, the].

court hopes to have a firm back-

Homecomin

| om am

Should Be Answer to Cry
For Danceable Music

By GRIER DAVIS

The Interfraternity Council has announced that Richard
Mallby’s Orchestra will supply the music for the Homecoming
weekend.

The formal dance will be from.
nine till one Friday night. Then
Maltby will set the tempo for Sat-|
urday night's’ dance by giving a
concert in Chambers after the ;

. radio and T. V. shows, he has
Homecoming football game. ! backed many singers on successful

Malthy scems to be the answer|reeords like Giselle McKenzie's
to the student outery of past years! “Hard to Get.” His first individual

classified Richard Maltby as “one
of the best and most versatile ar-
rangers in the business.”

Besides being in demand for

'

NOTICE

The schedule for indivdval
portraits for Quips and Cranks
for next week is as follows:

Monday and Tuesday—

was drawn up by staff officers.
Staff officers are handling the is-
suance of weapons and other ma-
terials to the Cadets. The drill
and training schedules and their
execution are under the super-

vision of Cadet stafi officers, as Juniors.
is all the publicity for the entire Wednesday and Thursday—
ROTC Department. Seniors. ’

Hours—10:00-1:00 and 2:00.
- 5:30 Daily.

Complete headquarters have been
furnished for the two Battalions

‘ ‘

CULTURE AT BARGAIN PRICES brings the younger genera-
tion flocking to 42-year-old White’s Drug Store, where Plato,
Shakespeare, and Mickey Spillane meet in the magazine racks to
the accompaniment of strains of Offenbach’s Gaite Pariesienne.

White’s Is New Center
Of Culture, Literature

By AL MACKAY
White’s Drug Store has changed. It’s still the only place
in town one can leave from by bus, get a prescription filled,
or get a decent chocolate milk, but recently it has assumed
a more important role on campus.

White's Drug Store ‘is now the
literary, social, and cultural Mee-
ca renee lth of books fills of the aesthetically inclined patrons
the shelves and racks that occupy
the front portion of the establish
ment. In addition to all the best
in the literary field, they offer

more than the literary and social
combined. These sensitive fellows
have been observed standing for

!
\

Swiped From Freshmen

own time in regard to entertain-
ment, plays. and tours of the city.

It is hoped that the tour will
allow students of all interests to
go to New York conveniently and
cheaply.

Those interested may sign up
Monday. October Ist, at the Union
desk. during Chapel Period. Other
details will be explained at that
time.

Council to Pay for Caps

ing from every upperclassman on
this policy.

Those freshmen called before
the court and convicted will find
an unwelcome tack, such as run-
ning stud on a whole floor section
of upperclassmen for a period of
one week, carrying laundry for}
the court members. or polishing
football shoes.

—_

RICHARD MALTBY'S “Band the Dancers Demand” will be
one of the top attractions of the gala Homecoming weekend set
for October 26-27, which will feature in addition traditionally
colorful football between the Wildeats and the Keydets of VMI.

By BOB LATHAN

The Student Council, in its first meeting this year,
passed a motion Monday night, by vote of 7-2, to reimburse
all freshmen whose hats were stolen from the gym the after-
noon of the Freshman Cake Race and who had reported their
loss to a Court of Control member.

The motion was made by Fresh- i) reimburse them in a tangible
man Adviser Cart Cooper and fol- way to show that the Student

Bondurant
lowed much discussion on the in- Council supports the Court.” |

cident. Judge of the Court of Con- . . :
. Ross Smyth, first vice-president 6 9
trol Reitzel Snider, who was present of the student body, noted that

at the meeting to make a report
: . students “would hold the Court
t. |. . . :
concerning the Court, pointed ou in higher esteem if the Council

Will .
Membership Drive

&

ee
ot

Initiate

‘along with

for a “band we can danee to.” His
six-week engagement at the Cafe
Rouge of the Statler Hotel in New
York brought favorable reviews
such as these Billboard praised

subtle swing should please the
school crowd." Variety cited that
“a compelling dance
beat,” his band showed a “quest
for new sounds and coloration.”
His Instrumentation is construct-

ed. along standard tines with a

quiritet of reeds, three trombones, |

four, trumpets. and four rythms.
His vocalist, Miss Frankie Crockett,
Was a recent runner-up for the
Miss. Florida title. She vas chosen
from htindreds of applicants for
the job and made her debut with
Maltby at the Cafe Rouge.

Richard Maltby started his as-
sociation with music playing a
‘coronet in grade and. high school
orchestras. He began a liberal arts
leourse at Northwestern not in-
{tending to make a career of music;
but, after one year, he feft school
to study advanced harmony and
orchestration under Leo Sowerby.

He then began arranging for
some of the more prominent band
leaders such as Artie Shaw and

him, “Maltby’s danceable brand

recordings for R.C.A., “St. Louis
Blues Mambo.” and “Midnight
Mood”, established him commercial-
ly. A juke box operators’ poll
called his group the “most promis-
ing new orchestra of 1954.” -

As the popularity of his records
increased, he organized a traveling
band which played last year to
six Ivy League and Big Seven
school, among them Yale, Cornell.
and the Universities of Michigan
and Missouri.

Richard Maltby has become
{known as the “Master of Musical
! Moods.” His talent and imagina-
tion have led him to experiment
with modern harmony and to ex-
plore classic and symphonic realms
as well as the popular dance
medium. From all reports. he.
promises to offer an atmosphere
with just the right amount of con;
ventionalism and a needed touch
of freshness.

Class of 1960 Ranks
High on Entrance Test

Professor Benjamin Bray, acting
head of the Guidance and Coun-
seling department. this week stat-
ed that the College Board Test-

“Since the involved freshmen were
not in any way negligent, it was
an incident out of -the ordinary,
and I would suggest that. the Coun-

Templeton to Addres
Students in Chapel

Dr. Charles B. Templeton will
address the student body at the
regular chapel service Tuesday,

The 1956-57 YMCA Membership Drive will be. kicked-

would. take favorable action on ; :
off in Chapel next Thursday. Gordon Boncurant, President

this matter. All Council members
agreed that the freshman had been
done an injustice which disillu
sioned many of them. Student body
president Dan LaFat’s contention
was that it was “a matter of prin-

ship Committee of the Y Cabinet. will have the Chapel pro-
.gram and will explain to the student body the concomitants
‘to Y membership and what the Y has to offer.

ciple rather than money.” Solicitation’s for membership. gus Ethics in Politics.” with out:
An important item on the Coun- headet by Perkinson and side speakers to lead the discus-

cil’s agenda Monday night was the , Stewart, Co-Chairman of the Drive.) ion,

Court of Control. LaFar stated that | will begin that night and ‘will last

program is drawing near.” Judge , dents who are not contacted either

Snider, who then took the floor,jof these two nights will be seen) Jinn in Memphis, will speak to

of the Y, and Bunny Perkinson, Chairman of the Member-,

- ; On next Monday night, Dr. WwW.
jthe “crucial point in the Court through Friday night. These stu: ‘Kaylor Reveley, Professor of. Hw |
manities and the Chaplain at South: |

enables the College to be more
selective than it has been in the
‘furnished, one of his biggest sell-| past.

,ing records. As evidence of this belief, Pro-
; Paul Whiteman gave him his| fessor Bray points owt that this
biggest. boost, by placing him with!year’s Freshman Class had the
the American Broadcasting Com. ‘highest rating on the A. C. E. test
pany in Chicago as conductor-ar- | of any freshman class in the his-
| ranger. Since then Whiteman has.tory of Davidson College.

DAVIDSON WELCOMES

iBenny Goodman. who made Malt-|
by's original score. “Six Flats Un-;

October 2. said he had contacted the frater-;Monday and Tuesday of the next
Following his talk Dr. Temple-| nity presitlents and requested that | week.
ton will be present at a coffee hour |«ccunci! members remind their| All solicitations. will be made
in the ballroom of the College] ¢raernities the Student Councit|in the dormitorics by members of
Union. The “¥" Cabinet, sponsor) do.5 endorse the Court and to|the committee. Membership — is
of the hour, has invited all mem-| impress upon pledges to abide by|open to all students and it is hoped
bers of the faculty and studentyihe Court.” that all students will pledge their
body to take advantage of this 0P-| 7.4 Court", Snider continued,|support to the YMCA.
portunity to meet Dr. Templeton. “will be a suecess this year unless} Perkinson reports that 90°° of
Freshmen will have a chance) tne student body fails to cooperate.|the freshman class: joined the Y
to talk further with this noted|1. |; essential that chapel sessions|during their drive which was held
speaker at a dinner meeting in the | o¢ the Court be conducted with a| during Orientation Weck.
private dining room of the Union| degree of seriousness and dignity.| Contributions to the Y may be
at 12:30. Those freshmen interested |qhe purpose of the chapel meet-{made in several ways: by direct
in this will please sign up in the/ings is not for upperélassmen fun.|contribution. by a pledge to con-
Y" office before Chapel Period | No charges of a ridiculous nature] tribute by a certain date to be
Tuesday because of the limited | which would incite upperelass| determined later, or by weekly
aecommodations. laughter will be made.” Vesper offerings. Offering  en-
Dr. Templeton, better known to Snider closed his remarks by|velopes will be made available to
|Davidson students as “Chuck”! saying that he feels most of the|those who desire to contribute in

rect from Charlotte by the man. Templeton, is recognized by many! freshmen and the majority of the | this way.

agement for its customers. To many sts in of the foremost Evange-| yyoerclassmen have some kind of
s

this cultural aspect is worth far: called

The succéss of the Y program: is
respect for the Court. dependant upon this Membership
” . , The last major item of business |Drive, first of all because interested
ha mollene ws note d for his appeal of the Council was the “telephone| persons are recruited tO engage

Broups. situation.” President LaFar stated|in Y activities and secondly be-

Templeton will be serving as that the possibility of havi D
the Preacher for the Beam Memo- 3 Posse. aving

in the country. He has been
“a college man’s Billy Gra-

all interested persons. The .noted
Chuck Templeton will have the
Chapel program next Tuesday.
Bath of these men are sponsored
by .the YMCA and are typical of
the many services the. Y provides
on campus ‘for the student body.

Band Reveals Plans:
Fer New Season

FRASER TO VESPERS

By DAVID ROBINSON

The Rev. Thomas A Fraser, Jr., will fill the Davidson

pulpit for the vesper program this Sunday evening.

Mr.

Fraser serves as pastor of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in

Winston-Salem.

In addition to his ministerial
training at Virginia Theological
Seminary in Alexandria, Va., Myr.
Vraser has received schooling at
both Hobart College of New York

{State and the University of Jena

The Davidson College football
band opened its 1956-57 season last
Friday night at the Davidson-Ca-
tawba game. Fron: all indications
it showd be one of the Linest in|
the history of the college.

The band combined with the Cas)
tawba unit, and. under the direction
of Catawba band director Marvin
Wittington played the National

} Anthem.

Among the plans for the band

im Germany.

Following his work at the Semi-
nary, the Atlanta native assumed
the pastorate of the First Episco-
pal Church of Alexandria, and.
six years ago, maved to his present
position ‘in Winston Salem.

Mr. Fraser combines with his
ministerial duties work as a mem-
ber of the Board of, Trustees of
the Virginia Theological Seminary
and of the Board of Directors of

a-|eause the money derived from the| during the first semester are ap-|the College of Preachers in Wash-

His particular interests in his
work lie in the field of religious
education and pastoral counseling.
He spent last. summer in Haiti di-
recting the activities of Episcopa!
theological students serving in the
missionary districts,

Immediately following the Ves-
per service, Mr. Fraser plans to
join the members of the Canter-
bury Club in the Green Room of
the Union for their evening pro-
gram.

Tests Are Scheduled
For Draft Deferment

certain publications that for vari-
ous reasons are not even in the

hours, idly thumbing through Nug: |
get, Escapade, Playboy, lost in the

; : . vidson put on a Charlotte exchange | Drive =m ; , Y
;tial Services at The First Presby-| .oryice had been turned down com-| existence of most. of the Y pro-;¢xpense-paid trip to Lexington,

akes possible the very |Pearances at all home games, anj ington. D. C.

obvious delights that only music

library. Classics, novels, short affords.

stories, texts and periodicals are ~
there for anyone who has a! White’s Drug Store has been
quarter. serving the pharmaceutical needs

What inquiring, ambitious schol-|f Davidson for over 40 years.
ar is there who, in his relentless Their’s is a dedicated staff; fair

search for the eternal truths, has}2"d impartial. They take great

not referred time and again to| Pride in the fact that the poor boy States in 1948 as a special student) made, for the most part, by town’s

terian Church of Charlotte through- pletely for the next few years|grams and activities,
out next week. These services Will| due to the fact that the rates of

be held Sunday through Friday,
September 30 to October 5, 1956,
at 7:30 in the evening.

Chuck Templeton is a Canadian
by birth. He came to the United

| Va.. for the Washington and Lec;
! gare, and a lawn concert at Home-|
coming. i

The official concert season willi
“begin after the Thanksgiving holi-
days. Plans for the concert season
include a week-long tour through
South Carolina, Georgia, and Flori-
{da, numerous campus and commu-

The first mecting of the new
the Davidson phones would go up| membership of the Y will be Thurs-
about $4.00 per home. “In addi- day, Oct. 25. and its theme will
tion,” he said, “phone calls to center around the subject “Religi-

Charlotte in previous years were

Democrats Organize |

Dr. W. O. Puckett, Professor of
Biology. has announced the dates
on which the draft deferment tests
will be administered. These dates
are Thursday, November 15, 1956.
and Thursday, April 18, 1957.
| Dr. Puckett said that in order

for a student to be deferred under

the Selective Service Act. he must
either make a score of 70 or more

4

Club on DC Campus |

the magazine racks of White's Drug| Who comes in with dental trouble ;at Princeton Theological Semi-| peopie.”

{jon the test, or else be in the upper

Store?
This is the place where every-
body else comes to meet every:

body. Many enjoyable hours are and modernized the front of the

gets the same treatment as does| nary. After his ordination into the
the rich boy with athlete’s foot. , Presbyterian Church U. S. A., in

Although they have remodeled

May 1951, he joined the staff of of the “Foreign Exchange
the Department of Evangelism of|to the Council. The charge for each

, LaFar discussed the possibility

” service |the Young Democrats will be held

nity concerts, and appearances at
high schools and nearby towns.

The football band is under the

An Organizational meeting of;

On Tuesday evening at 8:00 in

the Blue Room of the College !teadership of Mr. West. The drum |-

brackets of his class.
Applications for the tests will

be issued here in the near future.

Any student who wishes to make

th
a

t

«sn

the National Council of Churches. | call to Charlotte on the telephone, | ynjon,
which would be placed in the Col-| This meeting is significant in
lege Union, would be only 10¢c per|that it marks the beginning of

call if at least 20 people called each .orsanized Democrats on the Da-

spent here over tall, cool choco-| building, a quaint air of antiquity
late milks. There is even the pos-|is maintained about the rear. The Two years ago Templeton be-
sibility of pleasant female com-jsame chairs and table that were,came the Secretary of Evangelism
panionship. One can hardly help|there 40 years or more ago can} for the Presbyterian Church U.S.A.

was drum major of his high school |

major is Scott Puckett, a fresh-|,
man from Conway, South Caro-
lina, who played trombone and

hand.. |

application for the tests prior to
that time may secure forms from
any Selective Service Board.

The tests will be administered.
as previously, by Dr. Puckett in

but notice the ravishing beauties | still be seen.

that constantly adorn the front
entrance.

Pleasant music, with hardly aldition as is Scholarship, Fellow-, programs, and his book, “Life|asked the company when it could|eratic party are urged to be
station break, is channeled in di-|ship, and R.O.T.C.

| Since that time millions of people
Truly, White’s Drug Store is as | have. become familar with him
much a part of the Davidson tra-; through his radio work, television

‘ Looks Up.”

day. The cost goes down as more
people use the phone, LaFar has

install the phone.

vidson campus. All students who
are interested in taking an .active
part in the work of the Demo-

Although most of the places are |
filled, there are still some open-
ings, antl qualified men are urged |
to see Mr. West.

present.

the Martin Science Building. Dr.
Puckett said that he would be. glad
to give further information to any
student desiring it.

4 %

REV. T. A. FRASER
