OF WEEK
(Page 4)

PEARSALL WILDCAT

VOL. XLIV

D:

he Davidsonian

STUDENT POLL ON
INTEGRATION

(Page 1)

AVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956

NO. 22

WBTV fo Begin Airing

Weekly TV Series
Showing DC in Action

Davidson College will begin its

first series of educational tele-
vision programs April 30, over
station WBTV.

Geared to a family audience,
the series will endeavor to. ex-
plain the academic and admini-
strative operation of a liberal

arts college,

Members of the college faculty
and staff will explain their duties
and functions to promote better
understanding of a college edu-
cation. Motion pictures and other
visual aids will be used to im-
plement the programs.

Davidson president Dr. John R.
Cunningham will appear on the
first program, which will begin
at 6:15 p.m. and will last 15 min-

utes. Ensuing programs will be
Monday evenings at the same
time.

The 36-voice Davidson Male

Chorus, under the direction of
Donald B. Plott, will be heard on
the first program. Serving as host
for the college during the series
will be James W. Jackson, Jr.
of the Alumni and Public Rela-
tions department.

Among the first programs. in
the series will be a presentation
of the Davidson R.O.T.C. depart-
ment, in which the military obli-
gations of college-age students
are discussed.

Dr. W. G. Workman and Dr.
John M. Bevan of the psychology
department will use a lie detector

and various live animals to
demonstrate human = emotions,
and Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson

will relate historical events of the
Charlotte area including the
Mecklenburg Declaration of Inde-
pendence.

Honolulu-born Jean Erdman appears in a modern dance program
tonight at 8:15 p. m. closing out the Davidson College Artist Series.

Last Artist Series Event

Offers Creative Dancing :::"'.:::

Creative dancing will be the theme of the Davidson Artist | Chorus

Series presentation here tonight but the cast will be different
from that previously announced.

Miss Jean Erdman has replaced
dancers Hoving and Neilsen on
the program, following an_ acci-
dent suffered by Miss Neilsen,
and subsequent cancellation of
their engagement.

Miss Erdman’s concert will be-
gin at 8:15 in the Chambers audi-
torium. Tickets will be on sale

As Seaman MeNair sinks drunkenly to the hardwood, inmates and
onlookers of the “Geisha” House point accusingly at the spectacle.

GEISHA GIRLS DANCE

By OYVIND

Frolics to
D Club

An annual highlight of the Spring Frolics festivities is
the traditional “Foolies’ presented by Davidson's “D” Club.

The last few weeks have seen
intense preparation for this year’s
performance, which shows promise
of being the best one in several
years. It will be staged Friday
night, April 20th, and Ed Speir,
President of the Club and driving
force behind the show, guaran-
tees a great and entertaining pro-
duction.

The 1956 “Foolies” takes place
in one of Tokyo’s famed geisha
houses, where several American
sailors get involved in lots of
action. This setting should pro-
vide for really great opportuni-
ties, and the show will be a per-
fect opening for another Spring
Frolics success for all Davidson
gentlemen and their imported
dates. The plot cannot be re-
vealed at this time, but there will
be music, songs, a terrific geisha
ballet, and something for every
taste.

Bob Rhodes, a student at David-
son last year, is the man behind
the idea. Watt McCain is respon-
sible for the musical side of the
production, and several commit-

tees are in full activity to make
everything work out to perfec-
tion. The “D” Club is happy to
have Miss Nancy Copeland, who
has considerable experience in
this field, as director of the
“Foolies.” She is assisted by a
producers committee consisting
of Ed Speir, Dave Regen, and Jeff
Smith.

The leading parts are in the
best hands. Dave MeClean plays.
the part of the geisha man; Bill
MeNair is first sailor, and he
gets himself into some very con-
fusing action—which finally ends
up with a happy solution for all
involved. Ten voluptous geisha
girls will dance and in various
other ways entertain the Ameri-
can sailors. There will be amor-
ous adventures, and everything is
set for another “Foolies” touch-
down, home run, or whatever you
like.

Those who want a really suc-
cessful Spring Frolics week-end

can’t afford to miss the ‘“Foolies
of '56"!

box office for $2 each

Born in Honolulu, where her
father is a Presbyterian mission
ary, Jean Erdman’s creative work
is said to blend Eastern and
Wesiern .cultures. She studied
Polynesian and Oriental dances
before beginning formal training
at Sarah Lawrance and
at the Bennington of
dance.

She has worked with promi
nent teachers and troupes through
out the United States, and was a
soloist for several years with the
Martha Graham Group. She now
has a company of her own

Among her selections Friday
will be Mozart’s “Salutatio;”
“Ophelia,” by John Cage:
ture on a Journey.” by Harrison:
“Pierrot the Moon,” by Bartok;
and “Bagatelle,” by Scarlatti.

at the

College
Seche vol

“Crea

Discussed by Council —

The Student Council, thi
report from its Committee on

Bill Bondurant told the Council
that the Faculty Calendar Com
mittee, of which he and Council
man Linny Baker are
had decided against
the original inter-semester
proposal to the Faculty. The
ginal proposal was a plan which,
would gain two days, one by
shortening Orientation and one
by shortening Christmas holidays, |
in order to allow a two day holi-
day between semesters

Because of various factors and
complications, the Calendar Com
mittee rejected this plan in favor

members

of several alternatives, such as
eliminating Thanksgiving  holi-
days, and shortening Christmas,

vacation by one day in order to

have one day break between se-
mesters.
The Student Council turned!

down the proposed alternatives.

In its place, the Council, in a}
plan submitted by Councilman
Jason McManus, passed a new

proposal which would gain two
days by (1) having a split sched-
ule of the classes that come on
the first two days of second se-
mester. This means that both Sat-
urday’s and Monday's classes
would be held on the same day
in a split schedule arrangement.
A likely day for the split sched-
ule would be the first day of
second semester.

(2) And secondly, by re-arrang-
ing the ROTC and Math schedules
one day could be gained by the
shortened Spring exam _ period.
McManus’ plan was passed by a
unanimous vote of those members
voting. The petition is to be re-
ferred to the Calendar Committee

and subsequently to the faculty,

presenting |
break |

ori |

Chamber Orchestra
In Fine Arts Festival —

The Ninth Annual Fine Arts
Festival at Davidson College is
currently in vrogress. Mr. Ber
tram Colgrave of Durham Univer. | 4
sity, Durham, Bngland, presented ~ocet
a leeture on “The Sutten Hoo | 7/-
Treasure on April 6 and Miss!
Marilyn Mason appeared in an|
} organ concert on Tuesday, April |
} 10. The Red and Black Masquers
| Offered The Caine Mutiny Court
| Martial play based on Her
j}man Wouk’s best seller on April
111 and 12
{| Future events of the Fine Arts |
| Festival will be a program on Fri
}day night. April 13, by Jean Erd-
}man, creative dancer, who is re
| placins the modern dancers, Lueus |
| Hoving and Lavina Neilson, form
jerly announced; a concert off
}‘American Music” sponsored — by

in 1956—Pres-elect Bondurant reviews
policy with Rhett Sanders (V.P.) while Sec. Kuykendall records
his impressions and Trreasurer Kukura phones for financial assis-

}Gamma Kappa chapter of Phi Mu —
Alpha Sinfonia, national honor-
jary music on Monday,
| April 23 a recital by the Da
jvidsen College Chamber Orches

| tra on Wednesday, April 25 i

’
Also. the programs on April ;
26 and 27 will feature Howard}
T Art | ;

For a more active

traternity
(Photo by Stevens)

tance.

} Thomas, professor of at the

| University of Georgia, and Mrs s
Seisiies: “Athi college: Poupaas On ft C Integration
}service Sunday night, April 19, r) @ P|
will be given by the i
Chapel Choir and On Tuesday morning, April 10. approximately 430. stu-
the Davidson College Male dents expressed in a poll their personal feelings in regard to

The concluding presenta | jntegration—academically and socially—at Davidson College

tion on the Festival program will
The ssented by the fea
be a recital Monday night, April The -poll, prese . sie Reins then answered the follow
30, by students of the Davidson ture department of the Gove : ee
Coll " Department _ of Musi ian, was introduced as follows: | '" juestion
lege ‘par P Music
" Commaiieaeain with: hee sete The following question is pre Do you favor integration at}
sass ‘ 6e nts
van va n xhibit in the: Colle sented by student request. It} Davidson College:
¢ ; < » College
an ¢ . a vig in 4 em Uni “ deals with a problem of coneern| a. In the near future
o Mi ron « 4 o .
a a 4 “ a ; “ ‘ ia Gham to each individual here at David b. Eventually, but not in. the
‘ ) i c ove 0 é
aie: Buildin Th exbtibition son-—your thoughtful and honest| near future
ers b gz ese , ons
will’ feature. works’ from the cod | "YS" 5 desired, The question) ¢. Never
lace aa , hi : f th Me is asked with objectivity and di he ‘results, in terms of the
cto ot veri sO » se
" ‘a a 0 " ith o Da, | reetnesss by integration is meant) percentages of the four ‘¢lasses
Tr ¥ a se ) iz
: is See ae, ee at equality of opportunity in. all) and ‘student body as a whole
<_ ri psig oka 8 in realms of student life as we un-| favoring each alternative, are as
‘rs 0 e avidsa co ” ‘ |
ual Piss of sisi artist “| derstand them. today The stu! fotlow
Student
ROOM RESERVATIONS Body
Rooms will be held for pres- Percentage Fresh- Sopho- Juniors Seniors Total
ent occupants until 4:00 P. M. men mores
Aig gga ag tg se In the near Future w2: we nt SS 18.8
aye : ws ly, but
on a “first come first served’ Eventually,
bésis to: students who: have not in the near future 27.6 26.9 23.2 25 27.2
paid their $25.00 tuition de- Never 55.2 55.7 55.7 50 54

posits,

er Break

Members Interviewed

By BOB AUSTIN

Democratic-GOP Debate

ss J.
Kukura Fill

Bondurant, Kuist Elected
To Head ae, Mag

Kuykendall, .
“y” Offices:

By CLAGETT TAYLOR

In the balloting of the
Gordon Bondurant and
two most important ¢!|

Jim

lectbons

ginia-Tenne

On Tuesday, April 10, the YMCA sponsored a debate
s past Monday night, heard al between inembers of the Democratic and Republican parties.
an Inter-Semester Break. Mr. Henry Hall Wilson, presi-| os iis
| for ‘further consideration of the North Carolina chapter of age : De vt ae ee nthe
ler . = the Young Democrats Club, rep-|“ © emocrati onvention, |,
Vernon Hunter told the Coun- eh : , but Mr. Hiekman thought this to
cil. that his. ¢ ttee had de.| resented the Democrats, while}
} en eee oo oo sania |be of Little importance. in the
| veloped several proposals for in- Mr. Marcus Hickman represented Republiean tand
| tep *s ane
|ereasing the work of the Class of.| the Republicans I ns . stand
. > ¢ wilt ae .
ficers Among the proposals The Davidsonien was able to The Democrats. wil! attack the
(Continued On Page 6) secure interviews with both of | Present administration's — foreign
these men before they spoke. The policy, farm policy, and the influ-
questions concerned the stand oo of big busine : in Botities, |
McMANUS TAKES , the parties. on certain issues jaceording to Mr. Wilson ~~ Re
stig Mr. Wilson. refused te | Publicans will stand on a “Peace
WILSON AND CATHER answer. several. questions, due to} and Prosperity” policy, and it was
js affiliation with the Young|#™plied, that the present farm
vo Club j situation was due to the twenty
| Wtidinaas os thine ek: eee Demoeratic Administration.
ickman sa re é } nish
Davidson College senior Jason | mc on who would receive
'p. McManus of University City, | the Republican nomination; cer-
|Mo., ‘was today declared winner| tainly it would be President Eis-
(of both the Woodrow Wilson and emhower However, Mr. Wilson
| Willa Cather awards for creative|did not comment on who he
| writing thought would receive the Demo-
The announcement was niadie [eratic nomination, but he did say
today in chapel exercises before | that the nominee had a very good
the student body, and the awards} Chance of beating ikeeceny _
presented by Dr. Frontis W.| jenhower. Hickman predicted that
Johnston and Dr. George I Labban | Mr Nixon would be the vice-
jof the faculty —e sntial candidate.
Both prizes are made possible | When asked the question on
by Prof. W. C. Daub Kerr, of| where their strength would lie,
Glendale College in California.) each of the gentlemen had ap-
Prof. Kerr at- | proximately the same answer.
tended David- }Mr. Hickman said that the Repub-

leans would carry the big cities
|plus a part of the rural section.
| Wilson implied that the Demo-
lerats would not stick to any see-

son and was a .
founder of the
Davidson chap-
ter of Sigma

pas
Kuist,

t two weeks two rising seniors,
were the winners in the
In addition class officers and

YMCA officers were elected for the coming year.
Gordon Bonduran { Winston
Salem ‘was elected roommate, Joe Garrison, — this
the. ¥MCA in-a fi ae ealie year. Kuist served as assistant
Creighton Peden De editor of the magazine this year
ring the past sai ind was a member of the edi-
arved aa “view ; the torial staff last year
YMCA and chairmar the Ath A member of Philanthropic Lit
leties Committee, In hi npaign| “rary Society, Kuist last year
Bondurant had stressed attention | Served. as treasurer of that or-
to student: interes! ' ore sty-| Sanization and this year holds
dent participatior down the post of agent. As a
Commenting election, sophomore Kuist had the distine-
Bondurant told the Davidsonian, age of being elected to Sigma
It is my sine thet the Upsilon, literary fraternity
program of 11 MCA. will be} The election of class officers
most - effecti ceompli hing | Was completed last week. For the
its. purpose the campus and} Tising. senior class: Bunny Perkin-
in answerin needs of the} 50M Was elected president, George
entire stude: | Scott, vice president, and Stuart
Elected t ther YMCA. of | Vaughn ecretary-treasurer. For
fiees. were Rhett Sande soph- | | the risin inidr class. it will be
omore = frou nnsbere,. § ; | 5 ill Fraley president; Gilmour
viee president lohn Kuykendall, | Lake, president; and Ralph
freshman {1 Charlotte, seere- | Beh cretary-treasurer, For
| tary: Phil Kukura, junior from De their icers the rising sopho-
l tend: Fis sahil mores elected John Kuykendall,
Bhécted ‘he elbiintie ot president; Bob Huffaker, vice
” I ident; and Roy Gilbert, secre-
Scripts ‘n Pranks, the campu ‘its ennai
}organ of. literary endeavor, was
| Jim Kuist, who will take ovet Balloting next. week, with one
the editor's chair oceupied by hi siete to follow will be for
class representatives to the Stu-
dent Council. The candidates will
Temple to 5 k to | be nominated during Tuesday’s
pea jchapel. In addition. the rising
. ; seniors will elect next year's edi-
Bus.-Eco. Association of Quips ‘n Cranks, the col-
A Southern Bell Telephone and| lege annual
Telegraph Co. official will out-| P
line) for the Business Economies |
Associdtion’ of Davidson College
April. 17, the part played by
public. relations in. today ceon
Ory
Will Temple of Charlotte, cus
ltomer relations supervisor in. the
utility tate headquarter ill
addre the group's meeting. at
the. College Unton at) 7:30) p.m
His talk titled “Communica
tion Suces
It nelude: a diseussion of
ithe impertanee of effective com
| municat of ideas in’ business }
land lab relatior as well as]
internat rélations and gov
oe a JAMES C. KUIST
Prior. t ning Southern Bell's}
Public Relations Department in| ——
1952. Temp! United. Press
night bur nager im Raleigh Concert Band Opens
and worked reporter and
photographe: the Bristol Vir

‘Annual Spring Tour

|
A lieutenant Naval Re-| The Davidson College Concert
iserve Intelliger chairman} Band opened its spring series of
of. the Public Kelations Commit:| concerts at High Point. N. C. on
tee and a director. of the CWar-| April 9. The band. under the di
lotte Junior Ch Com | reetion. of J. Franklin West,. has
merce and state d t f public | scheduled three — more perform
information for th: \ir Pa-l ances in April,
trol Tonight the band is at Nor
In January he byl folk, Va. On Tuesday, April 17
{the Junior Chamber ee eree\ the band will play in: chapel, and
as one of Charlotte : Out) on April 30, it will be in Colum
standing Young Mer 955 bia. S.-C
winds The forty-piece band is play
jing much contemporary with. ro
}mantic and classical selections
‘rounding out the program. Selec.
tions in the High Point concert
were a Bach chorale, the Overture

A

Pro-

Upsilon, na | tion of the country. He said that

tional —_honor- jthe South would vote solidly After a lapse of one year, the Red and Black Masquers have

ary literary § | Democratic. On the other hand,| scheduled a spring tour. This tour will feature the presentation of

society. ; Mr. Hickman disagreed, saying| the Caine Mutiny Court-Martial by Herman Wovuk at Suilins Col-
Competition that the Republicans would carry}  jege in Bristol, Tennessee, on Saturday night, the 14th of April,

for the yearly Florida, North Carolina, and] and at Queens College on Tuesday night, the 17th of April.

prizes is limited Texas. total of twenty Davidsonians will make the tour.

to members of Sigma Upsilon.| The representatives had _ dif. Above is a scene from the play which stars Al Harris, Ed

The Woodrow Wilson award is|ferent views on the segregation| Hadley, Harold Hall, Laurens Walker, and Harry Paschall.

(Continued On Page 6) issue. Mr. Wilson stated this fessor R. W. Tyson is director.

to the French opera Iphigenia in
Aulis by Gluck, an  impression-
work titled “George Washing
sridge” by Sehuman, and
“March for Dignitaries” by As-
sistant Professor of Musie at
Davidson, John Satterfield
This latter work was written by
composer especially for the
Concert Band.

In a still somewhat uncertain
state are plans for a series of con-
certs on the Union lawn later
this. spring. During these = pro-
grams light classics and music
from Broadway will be featured.
No. définite have set
for these concerts.

HISTORICAL SOCIETY
| The North Carolina Historical
{Society will hold its annual spring
{meeting here Saturday. Dr. Wil-
liam P. Cumming, President of
'the Society, said today that the
‘program will begin at 4 p.m.

ton

vidsen

dates been

