LOVERS
TELL ALL

(Page 2)

VOL. XLV

DAVIDSO

Che Gauidsnnian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
N COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1956

GRIDMEN LIKE
NEW LOOK
(Page 3)

NO.

6

Dates, AlumniDescend for Weekena

Set For Richardson Field piscussed by Council

The Keydets from Virginia Military Institute invade Rich-
ardson Field tomorrow to struggle with Davidson’s Red and

Black machine in the height of

Anxious to display existing po-
tential that has been thwarted by
such forces as those of Lehigh,
Army, George Washington, and Vir-
ginia, these particular Virginians
are figuring on such an opportuni-
ty as they step into nearer equal
combat for the third time during
the current season.

Richmond fell to the Keydet at-
tack three weeks ago by 35-20; and
a mutual opponent, Stetson, suf-
fered a 47-6 demolidhing in their
season's opener. Otherwise, the op-
position has been more than the
visiting squad could manage.

Looking beyond glaring final
scores of defeat, the makings of
rugged competition can be found
in statistics. For in 178 rushing at-
tempts an average of better than
four yards a try is discovered, and
a mark in pass completions of 47
per cent is also recorded. A punt-
ing average of 39.4 is the answer
to what happens when offensive
power fails.

JORDAN, WOOLWINE STAR

More specifically, the main con-

tributors to such accomplishments |:

are halfbacks Bobby Jordan and
Sam. Woolwine, both sporting a
fancy 5.1 rushing mark. Quarter-
backs Duke Johnston and Bill Ne-
braska are waging a terrifying feud
for the starting berth, which in-
sures increasing quality in a vital
position.

For a team that barely averages
19 years of age, with twice as
many sophomores as juniors and
seniors, the Keydets present grati-
fying line play with Billy Elmore,
Jerry Borst, Lou Farmer, Bob Ra-

Discussion centered around
dance-weekend drinking at the
regular meeting of the Student
Council last Monday night.

der, and Jim McFalls as stalwarts.| Several fraternity presidents

A record of four impressive wins | were present at the meeting. Pres-
and a lone defeat, such as displayed |ident LaFar explained to the
by the Wildcats, constitutes plenty |sroup that the Dean of Students
to be reckoned with . . . especially | was going to require the fraternity

Homecoming excitement.

on Homecoming.

TWO PLATOON SYSTEM

Coach Bill Dole reaped the divi-
dends last week as his platoon sys-
tem, two teams of equal strength,
trounced an obviously weary Stet-
son eleven with five touchdowns in
the last half. Agvell balanced mix-
ture of aerials and ground work

was another major factor the ’Cats sion, the Council decided on the

will be trying to retain.

Dyke Little, who commanded the
squad last week that tallied thrice
in five minutes, will open at quar-
terback with a rushing average of
6.8 and 18 connections in 35 pass-
ing efforts. Paul Barbee, Don Mc.
Ree, and Ken Conger compose the
offensive drive with rushing tabu-
lations of 6.5, 5.6, and 4.8 yards
per try, respectively.

DAVIDSON FAVORED

on tap, the toe of Dave Fagg, who

has made good on 10 of 14 con-| jynior Council member, stating
version attempts and registered Olthat the Council recommend to
field goal, will be a valuable asset.‘ the faculty committee on fraterni-
Foge’s mates in the front ranks are | ties that, to eliminate the necessity
Iso reasons that the Wildcats are|o¢ boys leaving the campus during
made a slight one touchdown choice|qance weekends,

for victory.

With wins from the two most]remain in these
recent contests, Davidson will be be abolished.

trying to continue to decrease the
series lead whicliithe Keydets main-

tain with 20 wins and 13 defeats./on the next business item of the
Kickoff time is slated at 2:00 p. m.| Council, that being the require-

GEORGE PARKINSON GUNN (right), director of the Banners
of Freedom television series currently being kicked off here,
looks over the prepared script with Jim Jackson, Davidson pub-

licity director.

FILMS ‘DAVIDSON STORY’

Gunn, Expert in TV Field,

Has Rapid, Exciting Lit

With an apparent “battle royal” | motion was passed unanimously.

-|ported that out of 29 leading

__.]ans. This building not only housed

presidents to sign a pledge. that
they saw no drinking on campus
during the Homecoming weekend.

The question was whether the
Student Council would take re-
sponsibility for seeing that fra-
ternity presidents sign this new
pledge or whether it would be
handled through the Dean's office
as heretofore. After much discus-

latter alternative.
DEFINE TERMS

Then senior Council member
Carl Cooper moved that the Coun-
cil send a recommendation to the
Dean that he not require fra-
ternity presidents to act as Coun-
cil members by signing the new
pledge since they are not honor
bound to report drinking and that
the Council leave all such dance
weekend pledges in his hands. The

A motion by Bill Bondurant,

the fraternity
house curfew allowing no one to
houses all night

A.B. DEGREE
Phil Kukura initiated discussion

ments for the Batchelor of Arts
degree at Davidson. Kukura re-

(Continued on Page Four)

Sweeping Changes
Alter College Scene

Friends and alumni of Davidson
College returning this weekend
will observe many changes in
the college plant.

The Davidson campus of fifty
years ago was a vastly different
place than the same campus is
today. Then, as now, the hub of
the academic life was concentra-
ted in Chambers building. The
Chambers building of the last gen-
eration, however, would not be
recognized by present Davidsoni-

RR

classrooms and offices, it con-
tained student living quarters as
well,

“Qld Chambers” burned in 1921;
however, Davidson was down, but
not out.

FRATERNITY COURT

The past thirty years have seen
the fruition of a new era. The new
Chambers building and the fra-
ternity court were constructed by
1930. Then the full effects of the
depression again threatened to

nen

dominate “the Davidson spirit.”
Again her sons rallied however,

A stranger always attracts attention on the Davidson Cam-
pus. He is of special note when he stops to ask questions of
the students—and then waits to receive answers.

George P. Gunn of the Protestant
Radio and Television Council in
Atlanta, came to the campus only
a short time ago but is already
recognizable by the majority of
the members of the student body
as Mr. Gunn or “that man who is
going to make the movie.”

His appearance readily conveys
the vision of an athlete, which he
js. He was captain of the Univer-
sity of Florida basketball team that
lost to the Alabama’s Crimson Tide
in the Southeastern Conference
championship early in the thirties.

The small basketball he wears
in his lapel, which is a memento
of ‘that championship game, and

the stopwatch he wears on the
other end of the chain, connecting
the two, are symbolic of the dual
interests in his life—athletics and
radio, television. He gave up a
coaching position to go into an in-
fant medium called radio.

While at the University of Flori-
da Gunn divided his time between
his radio work and his physical
education major. As proof of his
athletic prowess twenty years after
his graduation from college he ran
into his old roommate, George
Smathers, now junior Senator from
Florida. The first thing Smathers
asked him was, ‘Well, George, are

(Continued on Page Four)

with a renewed interest.

Came the late ‘30s and the early
40s, more new faces were added
to the campus structure. A new
dormitory, a new library, aad a
new science building heralded
great strides in student life.

POST-WAR ADDITIONS

Within the decade since the war,
the Johnston Gymnasium, an en-
larged Davidson College Church,
the David Ovens Student Union,
W. H. Belk Hall, and a yet-un-
named dormitory have been added
to the campus. )

Time and progress have necessi-
tated the removal of Rumple and
Georgia dormitories much to the
chagrin of many alumni. Plans are
abeut to unfold for an enlarging
of the present library.

i

Tuesday Will Feature
Dr. Link as Speaker

Dr. Arthur Stanley Link will be
the featured speaker in the second
Woodrow Wilson Convocation to
be held Tuesday morning.

Dr. Link, a professor of history
at Northwestern University, is the
author of three books on Wilson
and is probably his best-known
biographer.

The first Wilson convocation was
held at Davidson this spring, when
Raleigh editor Jonathan Daniels
addressed the college. The convo-
cations are a part of Davidson's
contribution to the Woodrow Wil-
son Centennial, and recall Wilson’s
allegiance to Davidson, which he
attended as a freshman.

Dr. Link is a 1941 graduate of
the University of North Carolina,
and earned both his M.A. and Ph.
D. degrees there, the latter in
1945. He was an instructor at
N. C. State in 1943, 1944 and 1945.

PHI BETA KAPPA

Before joining the Northwestern
faculty, he taught at Princeton,
and has held two Rosewald fel-
lowships and one Guggenheim fel-
lowship. He is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa. Alpha Delta Kappa.
the American History Association
and other professional groups.

In. 1947 Dr. Link published
“Wilson: Road to the White
House,” and in 1954 ‘Woodrow
Wilson and the Progressive Era.”
“wilson: The New Freedom” will
be published by the Princeton Uni-
versity Press.

The 36-year-old historian will be

(Continued on Page Four)

= 4 ra

ARTHUR S. LINK
Speaks at Wilson Convocation

—
we

. ~ \

ne

4

HAND IN HAND, Davidsonians and their Homecoming queens converged on Chambers Audi-
torium tonight as Arthur Treacher opened the weekend with a progrem of humorous readings. After-
wards, it was a quick change to tux and evening dresses for the formal dance in Johnston Gym,
featuring Richard Maltby and his band of danceable music.

Wilson Convocation TO THE ALUMNI

The Undergraduate Report

Davidson College has been in a state of evolution for
some time and the past two years have seen the dawn of a
new era in the history of the institution. The changes
made will provide for greater growth and development
educationally, religiously, socially, and culturally to each
succeeding class, and result in the production of the well-
rounded man. Among these are:

—tThe great advances in the physical properties. Two
new dormitories, housing approximately half the student
body, are now complete. Georgia and Rumple have been
razed and landscaping has been accomplished. Modern
provision has preserved the spirit of the old in the renova-
tion of Phi and Eu halls.

—Opportunity for religious growth to maintain pace
with intellectual development was enhanced with the
creation of the position of Minister to Students.

—-Administration of the College Board exams, pro-
viding an additional means to ascertain that the incom-
ing student will be able to meet Davidson's scholastic de-
mands. The high overall record and the greatly decreased
mortality rate of the present classes are proof of the merit
of this step.

—Organization of a Board of Visitors, composed of a
score of distinguished, interested persons, to visit David-
son annually.

—Increased quality in chapel programs as a result
of a decrease in number to three services a week.

—Greater rappott between faculty and fraternities
as both work to assume mature methods of conduct de-
signed to satisfy fraternity men, as well as meeting the
College aims.

Increased scholarship opportunities, as provided by
corporation and foundation giving, to interest the pro-
spective college student of superior achievement in David-
son.

—A dual program of library expansion, in which the
facilities as well as the number and quality of the volumes
will be increased.

—Outstanding success on the athletic field, without
sacrificing educational standards, and the launching ofa
new intercollegiate sport, soccer.

—A more realistic cut system, placing greater respon-
sibility on the student.

—The emerging maturity of the College Union, to
provide for areas of need met in no other way.

It is with a great degree of pride that we present
these achievements. This is not done, however, without
the realization of great problems which now confront us,
and of those which will inevitably arise in the future.

However, with the genuine good will and coopera-
tion which now exists within the College family, there is
no doubt that the difficulties to come will be squarely
met and ultimately solved in the great tradition which is
ours.

Jto attend the annual Alumni Asso: |

WILDCATS HIT VMI KEYDETS IN HOMECOMING CLASH

Colorful Annual Event

Maltby, Treacher, Parties
Spotlight Festivities

By BOB LATHAN

Homecoming weekend, which officially began tonight, is
slated to provide a complete program of events for the two-day
celebration.

About 1,000 alumni. are expected | Gastonia- the Alumni fund. Presi-
0 al dent John R. Cunningham will wel-
ciation luncheon tomorrow morn- {come alumni.

ing, but perhaps an equally signi-

fieant arrival on the campus this OFFICERS INSTALLED

weckend was the convergence of
several hundred females this after:
noen in Belk dormitory.

ENGLISH HUMOR

Tonight the girls and their dates
planned to listen to some cele-
brated “English: humor by Arthur
Treacher, who was featured in the
first event of the Artist Series.
They will then head for Johnston
Gymnasium, where Richard Malt-
by’s “Band the Dancers Demand”
will play for the formal dance
from nine ‘til one.

Maltby's. mellow music of subtle
swing. which seems to answer the
students’ ery fot danceable music.
will be danced to by both veteran
upperclassmen and rookie fresh
men. Numerous after-dance parties
will provide extracurricular enter-
tainment for the avid  indogr
sportsmen.

CONVOCATION REPORTS

Tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock
the Wildeat Club will meet in the
College Union. At tl a. m. the
alumni will hear a four-point re-
port on the college during the an-
nual Alumni Convoeation in Cham.
bers auditorium.

Dr. W. G. McGavock will report
on the faculty, and student body
president Dan Lalar on the honor
system. College treasurer D. Grier
Martin will describe the college ad-
ministration and John M. Akers of

Ceremonies will include installa-
tion of new alumni officers. Charles
F. Myers of Greensboro will be in-
stalled as president. while Alexan-
der S. Moffett of Tampa, Florida,
and the Rev. Alfred G. Taylor ‘of
Greenville. S. C., will be installed
as vice-presidents. Outgoing presi-
dent Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., will
preside.

Also during the Convoeation an
alumnus from cach of seven social
fraternities will present a plaque
to be awarded cach year to the
senior member of the. fraternity
with the highest academic average.
It is a joint effort of fraternity,
alumni, and college to reemphasize

scholarship. .

PLAQUES TO FRATS ;
The presentation was originated

by George M. King of Bristol,

Tenn., a trustee of the college, who
has given such a plaque to his own
fraternity, the Kappa Alpha Order.
Other fraternities tuking part will
be Kappa Sigma. Beta Theta Pi.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Pi Kappa
Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, and Phi
Gamma Delta.

At 12 noon the Eumenean and
Philanthropic Literary Society
Halls will be formally presented to
the college. The halls have been
restored to their original beauty
through the generosity of Mrs.

(Continued on Page Four)

WORKMEN LAY THE CARPET in renovated Phi Hall early
this woek. The restored literary society halls are being presented
to the college in formal ceremonies tomorrow at noon.

WITH ALL PAST GLORY

Phi and Eu Halls
Open Tomorrow

Davidson will honor Mrs. Clarence Hodson of Orange, N.

J. Saturday during homecoming celebration and formal pres-
¢ntation of the restored Eumenean and Philanthropic literary

| society halls.

| Mrs. Hodson made possible the
vestoration of the halls through a
| itt to the college, and will be
guest of honor during the histori-
cal pageant that will highlight
homecoming festivities.

Mrs. Hodson. a native of Winston-
Salem, is carrying on her late hus-
band’s interests in the field of
higher education, where she has
supplemented gifts of the Hodson
Trust. The Schlicker organ in the
Davidson College Church was a
gift of Mrs. Hodson.

During the pageant Saturday his-
torical lore of the literary societies
will be recalled. President Cun-
iningham will preside at the presen-
tation exercises. Dr, Davidson, Di-
rector of the Library, will serve

ee

as master of ceremonies. The pa-
geant will be in the form of 4
“Voice of History’ narration, with
Harry Paschall as -narrator.

The current society presidents.
Harry Antrim of Philanthropic, and
Bill Daniel of Eumanean, will be
presented. They will be accompa-
nied by their Homecoming guests.
Miss Louanne Self of Knoxville for
Philanthropic, and Miss Betty Zeh
of Winston-Salem for Eumanean,
The couples will be dressed in ante-
bellum fashion symbolie of the
“Days of Phi and Eu."

The program will begin at 12
noon.

Mrs. Hodson will be presented.
with 2 bouquet of flowers by: Dan
S. LaFar, student body president.
