PAGE FOUR

.
¢ .

i ‘ar

bie. Tdewwetem. tien SR i oe

PRIDE OF THE REGIMENT is the new ROTC Honor Drill Platoon, commanded by Lt. Tommy
Rivers. Sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, the platoon will make its initial public appearance Tues-
day, parading through downtown Davidson at 2:15 p.m. The band and color guard will also participate.

Special ROTC Units
To Parade Locally

Davidson College’s R.O.T.C.
band, color guard, and honor drill
platoon will parade through down-
town Davidson at 2:15 p.m. next
Tuesday.

Prior to tne parade, ‘at 2 o'clock,
Dr. John Cunningham, President
of the college, will inspect the
units in the vicinity of Shearer
Hall on the campus.

The presentation is in prepara-
tion for the participation of the
three units in the annual Kan-
napolis Christmas Parade. It is
also designed to give the local
citizens and school children a
chance to see elements of the
R.O.T.C. Regiment in action.

The parade will proceed down
Main Street turning off at South
Street. It will reverse directions
at the Davidson Elementary School,
march back to the Concord High-
way, and then onto the “D” drive
of the college’s front campus.

Officers in command are H. T.
Antrim, captain of the band, and
T. P. R. Rivers, commander of the
honor platoon. Cadet J. W. Kuy-
kendall is in charge of the color
guard.

The honor platoon is a crack
drill platoon of selected R.O.T.C.
cadets which is under the spon-
sorship of the local chapter of
Scabbard and Blade, honorary mili-
tary fraternity.

Entremont Gives

(Continued from Page One)
Entremont’s playing as “already
remarkably solid, architectural,
powerful, limpid, and expressive.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

—

| ra Board of Visitors

(Continued from Page One)

Also, Charlotte contractor Fred
N. Thompson, Mrs. S. Clay Wil-
fiams of Winston-Salem, Mrs. Mar-
garet C. Woodson of Mocksville
and E. T. Woolfolk of Memphis,
Tenn., president of the Mid-South
Chemical Corp.

The men and women of the
Board of Visitors were selected
on the basis of their interest in
Christian liberal arts education
ina their ability to initiate ideas

“,

> WL ee

nett orwers.. ia

and otherwise advise the presi-
dent, the faculty and other college
' officials.

Twenty-six persons have accep-
ted appointments to the Board,
and will take part in a continual
program of planning and imple-
menting the Davidson program.

‘A GIANT STRIDE’

“Must Abide by the Law’
Says Omer Carmichael

By DABNEY STUART

Cooper Gives Plans
For Winter Services

The full membership of the vari-
“You can’t live in a country and defy it. You must abide Pe ‘during Chavet period et
by the law of the land whether you like it or not.” Such were Wednesday to continue work on
the words of Dr. Omer Carmichael in the Davidson College these services.

Chapel Thursday, November 15, 1956. | Carl Cooper, Chairman of the

Dr. Carmichael has been for twofone student in each case has the ; full committee on Winter Services,
years the driving and guiding|privilege to transfer but has not spoke briefly explaining the work
force behind the integration in|done so.” This is but another at-,to be done and emphasizing the
the public schools of Louisville,|testation to the success of the | immediate tasks to be performed.
Kentucky. The success of this in-| plan. The meeting was opened with
tegration speaks ‘eloquently of the} Dr. Carmichael recognizes the|a devotional program by Vernon
effort of Louisville's public school! possibility of the lowering of the| Hunter. Dr. Staples, who is serving
superintendent. level of education which may re-,as General Secretary for the com-

Behind the success of the plan|sult from the integration plan. | mittee, gave biographical material
which he and his board formulated] “I feel that the obligation of on each of the speakers and spoke
lie two main factors which he ox-| public education is the same to/generally about the topics to be
presses in this way. the Negro as to the white. This} discussed.

“We accepted the Supreme Court|is basic to any further answer 1} Cooper introduced the individ-
decision as the Jaw of the Jand.| May give concerning the education) ual committee chairmen and de-
By the word of the government of; level. scribed the functions and duties
Kentucky: and by my own beliefs NEGRO LEVEL LOWER of each of these committees.
the decision of the Court is law| “The Negro will probably fit! The services will consist of seven
and is to be carried out to thejinto the lower half of a white| maior addresses under the general
letter. By accepting this law un-|class. Considering the 3-1 ratio, in theme of “The Power and Practi-
questioningly, we took a giant/ class of 36 there are nine ne-| oatity of Faith: Biblical Prospec-
stride over the first hurdle of the|stoes. All nine will rank in the|tives speakers for the occasion
problem. lower half of the group. have been secured and were an-

“Secondly, we immediately be-| “The problem is obvious, but! nounced last week.
gan a process of extensive and ex-|iust because it is a problem is In addition to the Chapel ser-
haustive preparation. The fact that neal that we should not face vices and night. addresses, there
we did not delay in this action was|*" : . .. wi i -
of extreme importance to the re- Stemming from this same idea is oom shenkens” * personal eonten
sults we have achieved.” the effect that this new influx of ences, and each night of the three

slow-le vill h ;
WASHINGTON SCHOOLS | able, arners will have upon the day program will feature bull ses-
Dr. Carmichael feels that the ad-! Dr, Carmichael sees it this way.|S!0MS in the vafious fraternity
versity with which the Washing-

; “Education must challenge the | POUS€S-
ton, D. C., public schools have met

u able. The tendency has been to
may be attributed to the lack of

——

others write their names in
cement, but at Davidson between
the years 1883 and 1910 the stu-
dents wrote on the undersides of
marble top tables.

While the remodeling of Phi
Hall was being carried on, some-
one turned over the marble top
on one of the tables in the hall.
On the reverse side there were
eight names of students who were
here between '83 and '10. The old
saying, “fools “names and fools
faces . . .” certainly doesn’t hold
true for these distinguished men.
It is interesting to note that all
but three of these men became
ministers,

Neal Anderson inscribed his and
Elsie Lee's names on June 25,
1883. Dr. Anderson became one of
the most important ministers of
the early twentieth’ century. He
preached in Savannah. Ga., Win-
ston-Salem, and. in Alabama. In
addition, he took time off from
his ministerial work to invent the
Anderson electrical carriage re-
turn for the Underwood type-
writer. .

It appears that W. A. Withers,
class of 1883, also had a crush
on Elsie Lee. His name appears
with hers beside the date June
23, 1883. Mr. Withers was one of
the outstanding educators of the
times. He was head of theeChemis-

et rr sl ESS SSS

Delpech Gives Talk
To Le Cercle Francais

Le Cercle Francais had its regu-
lar meeting Tuesday night at the
home of Professor A. V. Goldiere.

After President Bill Martin
opened the meeting, there was the
| pustomary singing of the Marseil-
laise before any business was con-
sidered. For the program, Jacques
Delpech led a discussion on the
geography of France, and the new
members presented two comedies.
! Following the program, those
present enjoyed refreshments,
sang French songs, and played
French games.

t

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1956

COVERED WITH AUTOGRAPHS

Phi Table Top. Tells
Story of Eight Lives

Some people write on walls,)try department at N. C. State for)ation to become a businessman.

many years, and eventually be-| Among the inscribers who be-
came vice-president of State Col-|came ministers is W. A. Nesbit
lege. of the class of 1887. He was a
Elsie Lee seems to have faded|Georgia mez who headed for the
out of the picture. The alumni of-|Wide open spaces of Texas after
fice has no record of Jer marry-| receiving his degree.
ing a Davidsonian and the eternal! Another student who signed the
triangle seems to have been flat-|slab, was J. M. McCorkle of Salis-
tened. bury. After receiving his degree in
A. S. Maxwell graduated in|1890, he returned to Salisbury to
1809. He put his John Hancock on|become a banker.
the marble on April 18, 1907. After] The last name to be written on
graduation he became a mission-|the underside of the old marble
ary to Brazil. He hasn’t been heard top table is E. Alexander of the
of since. | class of 1888, He was a Charlottean
W. P. MacAlister who graduated|who died young while preaching
from Davidson in 1899 informs us|in Greenback, W. Va. His contri-
that on November 25, 1896 a dra-| bution to the writings was, “When
matic club practice was held in|this stab you may upturn, in idle
Phi Hall. Mr. MacAlister returned|careless seeking; remember your
to Lumberton, N. C., after gradu-'honored Phi's.”

Classical Club Holds

(Continued from Page One)

appreciation of the classical langu-
ages and the ages in which they
developed. Its purpose is to per-
petuate the same among the mem-
bers of the student body, as well
as to offer a further avenue of
study and application of the classi-
eal languages.
NATIONAL HONORARY ©

The Classical Club is petition-
ing Eta Sigma Phi, national honor-
ary fraternity, for a charter on
this campus. The members of the
honorary fraternity would be chos-
en from the Classical Club mem-
bers who have at least a “B”
average in either Latin or Greek
for two semesters.

The club will meet the second
Monday of each month, Anyone
who is interested in joining the
Classical Club should = contact
either Dr. Labban or some member
of the executive committee.

A New Service for You!

-@7

Christmas
Shopping
-made

easy

By special arrangement
a collection of distinctive
Christmas gifts created *
by famous concerns
are available

for your selection.

His musical penetration, his
straightforward authority, his gifts
of charm, of brilliance—in a word,
his personality—all these gifts are
already manifest in his playing.”

Competition Opens
For U. of Denver
Fellowship Awards

The University of Denver is of.
fering a number of Graduate Fel-

preparation there. “They moved
too fast. I would not have dared
try Integration in 1955." He is
quick to add that in no way does
he pretend a detailed knowledge
of the Washington situation.
The background for this inte-
gration in the Louisville schools
played a vital role in its success.
“There have never been any ‘Jim
Crow’ laws governing public tran-
portation. The public libraries
have been open to beth Negro and
white since 1948. A similar condi-
tion has. existed with regard to

——$

gear classes to the level of the KIMBROUGH’S USED
lower-half and to neglect the more | ———————————————
e
Several Alumni Noted

talented. '

from the class and set them off by

themselves. The best way to serve F Cc il L { T t

them is to handle them in the or 0 ege eve ex Ss

regular group. Withdrawing them

tion, human relations. who have made significant contributions in the field of writing
“So we hope that the fear of| textbooks for college consumption. Several other Davidson

lowering the educational level will} alumni have in the course of their post-college careers pro-

make the teachers ‘pay more atten-|duced books currently being used by the students in the

“Yet we cannot remove the able
Woodrow Wi i i i
defeats the basic value of educa. drow Wilson is only one of many Davidson alumni
tion to the able. Davidson classroom.

First and by far the most famil-|of Professor Chalmers Davidson,

49) | ie
;
v .

Prince‘ Matchabelli

... fine perfumes and
‘rich colognes in the ,
distinctive crown bottle.

lowships for the study of interna-
tional relations leading to the Mas-
ter of Arts degree.

These fellowships are awarded
by the Social Science Foundation
and carry stipends ranging from
free tuition to $1600.

The closing date for completed
applications is March 1, 1957. In-
terested students may consult with
Professor Ford or write to the Di-
rector, Social Science Foundation,
University of Denver, Denver 10,
Colorado.

18 MEMBERS ABROAD

Graduates Get Grants
For Advanced Study

iar is Trigonometry by Professor
Kimbrough. This textbook has
been in use for ten years, and Pro-
fessor Kimbrough’s text for analy-
challenging message youth} tical geometry has been serving
around the world. advanced math studbnts for fif-
A skilled flutist, Dr. Koo some. | teen years.
times can be persuaded to play| The main reasons for writing
his favorite Chinese melodies onjthese books, says the author, are
his ten-cent Chinese bamboo flute
to the delight of his audience.
The speeches are being spon-
sored by the Y’s Commission on
the Mission of the Church.. head-
ed by Joe Sandifer.

Masquers Present

(Continued from Page One)

Dr. Koo Address

(Continued from Page One)

nursing in our hospitals. All these
conditions cut down on the length
of time required for preparation,”
stated Dr. Carmichael.
’ The ratio of white students to
Negro is approximately 3-1. The
mixture of white and Negro in the
schools varies greatly over the
city. “In one school there are 450
whites and one Negro, and in an-
other this is exactly reversed,”
commented Dr. Carmichael.
“Remember, however, that the

to

up is included and thereby ir-
relevant material is eliminated. Al-
so an attempt is made to collect
the best parts of the various other
texts available and incorporate
their idea into one work. The
chief asset of both editions is
the large number of illustrations
which reduce to the simplest terms
all types of problems. .

Professor Abernethy is using a

of things is the tocal sheriff, played

that only the material to be taken’

book by Robert Davidson, brother

entitled Philosophies Men Live By.
He has used it for four years.
Elementary and easily understood,
the book elicits the interest of
many students toward more de-
tailed reading. It is one of few
textbooks that is often bought by
students not taking that particu-
lar subject.

A new book on ethics will be
introduced next semester. The book
was written by alumnus Thomas
E. Hill and will be used by Pro-
fessor Abernethy in the Philoso-
phy Department.

History 83, taught by Dean
Spencer, is using A History of
U. S. Foreign Policy by Julius
Pratt. Dr. Pratt, now retired, was
Dean of the Graduate School at the
University of Buffalo and is a
Davidson graduate.

Simonetta

TV hee
... Incanto

Cologne—part flame,
part flower, entirely
emotional !.

+
Perfume and

Eighteen members of the graduating class of 1956, in
nation-wide competion, have been chosen to receive scholar-
ships offered by various organizations for post-graduate work.

western and P. A. O. Karkkainen
is studying international relations
at the University of Denver with a
Tuition Fellowship plus $1,000.

N. C. STATE
N. C. State has presented three
of last year’s students, R. L. Bu-
chanan, S. T. Liles, and R. H. Webb,
scholarships worth $1,200 each for
further study in psychology.

Archie Joyner is on scholarship
at Duke Law School, and Harold
McKeithan holds a_ Rockefeller
Brothers Theological Fellowship at
Union Seminary in New York.

In other southern schools, J. H.
Woodall holds a $1,500 Fellowship
in History at Tulane University.

Jim Marshall is also taking his
Post graduate work at southern
schools. He has a Southern
Regional Council Fellowship in
Public Relations at the Universi-
ties of Alabama, Kentucky, and
ennessee,

Two students are continuing
their studies abroad. Fred Myers
is studying at Oxford on a Rhodes
Scholarship and John Harmon, a
Fullbright Fellowship winner, is at
the University of Berlin.

Three graduates have received
Woodrow Wilson Fellowships.
Clyde Robinson is at Union Theo-
logical Seminary in New York. Bill
Kuykendall is studying at Johns
Hopkins and Joe Conarroe is at
Cornell University. Conarroe also
has a Danforth Fellowship.

Brown Goehing is continuing his
work at the University of North
Carolina. He holds a teaching fel-
lowship in chemistry.

A trio of graduates have chosen
to further their education in the
northern and western parts of our
country. David Holloman has a
tuition scholarship at the Univer-
sity of Chicago Law School. Mau-
rice Crouse is studying on a Hearst
Fellowship in History at North:

by Stuart Fountain.
Harold Hall, President of the SD

Masquers, is director of the play, ALL re APITOL AND DECC A LP’S 20% OFF

and Professor R. W. Tyson of the
Speech department is faculty ad-

DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR
RECORD CHANGERS ONLY

viser.
$12.95

Intricacy of setting and lighting
PARKER-GARDNER

make The Rainmaker a more diffi-
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

cult and a new type of production
for the Davidson stage. Those re-

118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257
eee:

sponsible for the successful set
and stage effects include Hugh
Craig, stage director; Bob Hoag-
land, lighting; John Trotti, sound
effects; Warren Womble proper.
ties; and a crew of some 15.

Especially written interlude mu-
sic for voice and guitar has been
provided by John Bernhart, who
will sing and play.

Admission for the play will be
75 cents for students and adults
and 50 cents for dates and chil-
dren. Following the play both
nights there will be a free recep-
tion and dance in the College
Union ballroom sponsored by the
Masquers and the Union Social
Committee. Everyone is invited to
this affair at which coffee and
cookies will be served. A student
band will provide the music.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

Cherlotte, N. C.

Seaforth

toiletries for men
... inspired by
Scotland’s famous
Yighland Regiment..

See your. campus.representative now!

Tuesday-Thursday After Thanksgiving

All-Day Display in the Stud

GORDON BONDURANT ‘BOB MARTIN
BILL BONDURANT VAN WOOD

