FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1956

THE DAVI

Cat's Meow

— BY —

LEON HOWELL

Nosing Around

Three consecutive days of spring sunshine have brought}

forth a mass of athletes who are participating in one of the
four spring sports. Before long the various fields will be dotted
with IFC volleyball and soft ball, thereby giving the after-
noons a sound and a motion that has been missing during the
winter months.

l’erhaps one reason beyond the “Call of the outdoors”
during this season for increased enthusiasm in the sport
scene is the success these teams have enjoyed during the re-
cent years. Just by way of a refresher, the track team had a
7-0 season and finished second in the conference; the baseball
squad compiled a 12-5 slate; in tennis a 14-8 record was posted
against several national powers, along with the Conference
championship; and the golfers wound up 7-7, fourth in the
Conference.

As impressive as these statistics are, they do not express
adequately the enjoyment of observing outstanding individuals
and the teams work as units. Davidson also proudly claimed
Conference champions in different fields.

But, as some sage has noted, this isn’t last year and it is
interesting to sneak a preview of things to come, in order to
have an idea of what to expect.

On The Diamond

Perhaps the most impressive reversal of form witnessed
last season was the rejuvenation of the baseball team. From a
complete deficit to a sparkling 12-5 standing is quite an im-
provement. Leader in this cause was Bill Rowland, one of
Davidson’s all-time standouts. Johnny Smith and “Ish” Ben-
net anchored a sterling mound staff.

These three are the only graduation losses, but they may
prove to be the difference. A powerful infield with Dyke
Little, Buzzy Hope, Billy Morris, and John Patterson around
the horn, backed up by Bondurant and Kiser is the brightest
spot. Hope (who hit .453 last season), Little, and Kiser Morris
offer plenty of stick potential.

McRee, Wallace, Campbell, Comer, and West will perform
ably in the outer pastures and also chip in with plenty of hits.
The catching staff appears better staffed than in any recent
year, with Sanders, Reagan, and Voigt in the fore.

Which leaves us with the “unknown quantity,” the pitch-
ing staff. Only one, Belton, has worked more than 15 innings
in his college career. Dagenhart, Page, Moore, and several
frosh ought to come around quickly to fill the gap. It appears
that the most important individual will be Belton, whose arm
miseries have prevented him from fulfilling his terrific po-
tential. If he is able to burn them in as of old, then the Baseball
outfit could be the big story of the spring.

To The Oval
The track team, however, has long been known as the
“winningest” aggregation on the Davidson campus. With
losses nearly negligent, there is a chance that it can come
close to repeating its undefeated season last spring. Coach

“Pete” Whittle’s all-time record hovers at 91 wins and only
44 defeats, and with 10 meets this year, an all out effort

could put him in the exclusive “century” category.

Leading the thinclads in their onslaught in the conference
and against existing records will be Phil Koonce, Conference
100 and 220 champ, and “Pete” Ashcraft, mile and two mile
winner in Conference. Others who figure prominently in pre-
season plans are Bill Gramley in the shot and discus, Harley
Smith, the javelin ace, and Roz Mallory in the 440 and 880.

Overall strength in the distance, help in the field events,
and promise in the hurdles should rank this squad right along

with last year’s group.
And The Clay Courts

For the past two years Davidson has reigned supreme in
the Suuthern Conference tennis world, claiming team and in-
dividual honors. Gone forever is the great 1955 nucleus of
Keesler, Corky Clark, George Snead, and Leighton Green, who
swept all opposition aside save such powers as Miami, North
Carolina, and Duke.

With scanty hopes for a Conference position, Coach Mc-
Kee begins rebuilding for a later day with only John Robinson
returning. Leading the healthy turn out of 25 prospective
racketeers will be Pearsall, Huffaker, Clark, Martin, Mintz,
Hodel, Poindexter, Lewis, Dykers, Rawson, Lee, Ham, and
McCutchen.

Or The Links

‘Another group that is rebuilding after holding the Con-
ference diadem (’54) is the golf team under the direction of
Dr. S_ ott. Three lettermen return to give a strong impetus to,
the e!fort; they are Skipper Hall, Larry Parrott, and George
Scott.

Two freshmen who hold their state Junior crowns and
should see a great deal of action before the schedule is com-
pleted are Tom Johnson of Tennessee and Bill Purks of Missis-

sip i. John Mackorell, Bob Armfield, and Ned Payne, ~—
several frosh, are counted on to press for a starting be

by the end of the year.

All in all the sunshine season ought to prove interesting
to fan; about the campus as well as successful. Action begins
next Thursday. Don’t forget to come out and add your sup-

port!

anne
PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

Says Milner to Weeks, “Grab
This cut indicative of Conference

annual track meet

Betas, in F.C. Track

By JIM PAGE

On the afternoon of Mare
The Ph Delts strained past the Betas to

that thing before it gets away!”
tournament action.

h 1, the Greeks met in their

take first place. Third was earned by the K A’s while fourth

place went to the Kappa Sigs.

It was a cool afternoon. There
was little breeze. Standing behind |
the starting line for the hundred’
you could see the white lines
stretching straight and very clean
looking along the smooth black-
ness of the cinders. Runners jog-
ged by warming up. Their shoes
made a soft spatting sound against
the track

On the infield the weight men
limbered up. Their sweat clothes
loose and gray against the new,
green grass. It seemed very quiet
The only sound was the = easy
breathing of the runners warm
ing up and the soft spat of their
shoes on the track. Finally it came
First call for the hundred. The
runners kneit at the line and dug
their holes. Second call and then
last call passed. The starter raised

his pistol. “Runners to your
marks.” The runners looked down
the track. “Get set.” The run-

ners crouched, looking tense down
the white lines of the track. The
starter squeezed the trigger and
then they were off. Digging down
the hundred yards of cinders to
the tape. )

And so it went all afternoon. |
Each with the same beginning but}
ending with different heroes. In)
the hundred and two-twenty it was |
Armstrong for the Betas with al

on the squad.

The fert that Larry never had
any experience on the mat before
he came to Davidson, but yet is
one of the top wrestlers on the
squad, causes him to stand out
He has been wrestling this year in
the 157 pound and 147 pound
classes and is a tough opponent
in either class

The best match of the season for
Larry was against Washington and
Lee. In this match he defeated
Fowler, the same boy who pinned
him in a match last year, by a
score of 15-3. He also wrestled two
good matches in the Southern Con
ference tournament this year

against two men in his class from

Larry Wright

The Citadel and Washington and
Lee, placing third.

Being a two letter man in Track
and Wrestling, Larry has proved
himself versatile in sports. Even
though he has had only two years
of experience in wrestling, he is
further along than the average
man on the team. Because of his
winning personality and good na-
ture, Coach Parker says that he is
the coaches ideal material and
the kind of boy you enjoy coach-

ing. So again we tip our hats to a

added to his im-
basketball honors
was named to

Wright Wildcat of Week

Larry Wright, the hard working senior wrestler, is being | 87 point
saluted this week by the sports staff as Wildcat of the Week. I
Coach Charlie Parker describes Larry as a
mentally alert, young wrestler and the most improved man} men and |

of the Greens-

DSONIAN

PAGE THREE

on in dismay

NDETE

Hollingsworth out “Hot-Rods” Hundley as he (Hundley) looks
. . You going to stand on it, Dave?

GOLF TEAM TO OPEN THURSDAY:

STARTERS ARE STILL UNDETERMINED

With the qualifying rounds: this \ tentative mateh has been
time of 10:7 ‘seconds: In: the high week, Coach Tom Scott begins re-| scheduled with Rollins College of
jump, low = hurdle and broad canoe — . bau = Pare
jump it was Hambright of Pi — . — srg la _— 15; however, if this falls through
Kappa Phi with « height of 5°8", a ee ee ee eee heduled match is with
time. of 144 sec, and a jump of ing around a nucleus of three re-) Nort! rolina State on March 20
20.10% feet. Taking the 3 quarter turning letterme: nd adding | at Ral rhe linkmen will have
and the 68D with times of | 3:321 from the ten or n Freshmen} some practice though, before th
and 1:32.3 was the K A’s Antles hopefuls and other returnees, Dr.| event ul practice round with
while his team mate, Kiker, tied Scott hopes. to. wi ether a) the nton. Country Club
ds MB. viemedd with a SB eueond trong group that + idd another | Mar:
circuit. In the weights, Bigger top-neten. seusen to lready im hmen and others need
Kappa Sig took the shot with a pressive: Hat Ins nee, a Jayvee team i
43'1" put. Wilson of the Phi-Gam With such experienced men beit nized, It will play four
was victor in the discus with a 2% S¥ipper Hall, Larry Parrott, | matches, two each against Myer
10710" hurl George Scott, and Charlie Fee- Park High School and Gastonia

The 880 relay was the last event zor, and such hopefuls as Tom Hig! i
of the day. It turned out to be th Johnson, Tennessee Jr. Cham- He ishing our linkmen: ev
most important Going into the . 20m, and Bill Purks, Mississip- | ery | © of Suecess as they em
event, the Betas led the Phi Delt pi Jr. Champ, the team has ex- | bar! what looks to be an
by one point. The starter raised cellent prospects. A wealth of = othe: nning season
his pistol He squeezed the trig talent is available, for there All home matehes will be played
ger. They were off. One minute are over thirty men trying out. it the Charlotte Country Club

and forty-two later the Phi Delt
anchor man crossed the finish line
and Phi Delta Theta had: snatched
the Track Championship from the
Betas, 22 to 21. The K A's: fol
lowed with 18 and the K S's. with
16
Next Monday the volley ball
tournament will begin. The
tournament will continue for
eleven days with one round
played each day. There will be
six courts, three inside and
three outside.

ond and third of March, the’ South
ern Conference wrestlin
theld at Washington and Lee Uni

far
was shown b

vPl Grappling Champs

On Friday and Saturday, the see

meet was

| versity VPTs. team, that: won five
out of the eight. championship
feame through with’ first - place
honor
The teams in- order. of finish
~|} were VPI, VMI, Washington and
Lee, West Virginia, the Citadel
ind Davids« ollege VPs team

outela ill. competitors, a

re. VPI had

the see

im the
third place
Dave

weight lost hi

Davidson
mateh
Re
mended on their fine
both of

men

Regen

147 w

and won
en and Wrigh
them wrt

the sam

t
{

tournament by copping two}
and one fourth place

wrestling
first match and won
the next two to capture one of the
third place

Wrestling
who won the other third plaee for
Larry also lost his: first

heavy

Larry Wright

he next two
are to be com
efforts, since
tled two fresh-
itternoon and

|} second half w!

by a mere one point. Thereafter,
the game wa p and tuck, up un
}til the closin nutes when West O

Despite continuous harassment the fabulous “Hot-Rod” hit
enough to sink Davidson—Notice Cobb getting inside on rebound

Wildcats Scare West Virginia

HUNDLEY-LED CREW EDGES CATS 59-53

By TED DINGLER
During a week when the attentions of the majority of the
tudent body were elsewhere, the Davidson basketball team
gave West Virginia, ranked 14th nationally, a rough time be-

Florida, for March! fore succumbing. 59-53. The Cats took an early lead and held

it to the half, when they led, 30-27.

Rod Hundley, West Virginia’s|liberately and with skill, the in-
clowning forward, tried his “stuff”; comparable Hundley was held
nuch too soon Davidson. | down by Mintz, although he racked
He was removed b couch from | up the winning points on two driv-
the game after the = ¢ went ing lay-ups. \
whead, 22-21 minutes | z REA UTE
remaining in the half :

The Mountaineers never re gained | Dri k
their advantave until late in. the n

they. went ahead

‘M

Virginia got ! kept a five point

margin which ultimately won them O
the game

The Wildeits were decided un R’
derdo both in rank and height
rhe seventh-place Cats were “four
inche i man shorter Mintz and QUALITY MILK
Cobb were high:point: men for Da ¢ .
vidson, with 17 and 13 points eaeh Mooresville
lwhile Hundley led West. Virginia

Creamery, Inc.

|} with 14

| In an affair that was played de

SPRING IS COMING

It’s time to get out your Spring clothes and
have them freshened up for your best appear-
ance.

| .
For all your cleaning needs come to

JACKSON CLEANERS

MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N. C.

f the second place) won
team, VMI ! only 43. points. Of Pete Coleman captured |
he five npionships VPP won,) fourth place, wrestled in: tl 2%
eae Sar 3 +} fourth place, ‘ i 1 123
CONSCIENTIOUS, | three « e were won by fresh lnound division |
by sophomores. Thi
| anes This Dent Acree, wre 177; Har
| present pretty dim outlook. on ee .
cclanccaaeas - the wrest cene for all the cok |" * stervelt, 167 ety ene)
boy who has carried Davidson's; leges in-t! Southern Conference | 137; and Henry © 130 all
ideals to the wrestling mat Larry | for th wo or three years. lost the first rou ind did not
Wright. | David howed very well; place
When the songs are light -
«
And the fire’s bri G
: brigh .
nd the fire’s bright P A ae

For real delight-havea CAMEL! f #7
=

—Man, thats

it's a psychological fact:

Pleasure helps your disposition.

If you're a smoker, remember
more people get more

pure pleasure from Camels

than from any other cigarette!

No other cigarette is

rich-tasting, yet so mild!

pleasure

f

B. J. Reynolds Toteces Co,, Winston-Salem, Nt

y
‘

