PAGE FOUR

, “ 4
2%
* We

-THE DAVIDSONIAN

Graduate Record | SEGINS_34TH_ YEAR

Sigs lies To Be Given Court of Control Plans

a

a

he-B0

N
‘|

NERVOUS KNOTS of fraternity men stood in front of their

houses as Freshmen came down

to pledge up.

“QUITE AN INTERESTING BOTTLE”

Eumenean Find Reveals
Society’s Shrouded Past

BY JIM PAGE

Let me tell you about a whiskey bottle that's really been

around . . . even in a faculty meeting!

Chalmers Davidson says it's his-

He and another boy took it out

torical. Dr. Cunningham had ‘it int of the battle and read it.”

his office for a while and says it’s:
“quite an interesting bottle.” Then

Grier Martin grabbed it and locked | onstruction of Eu hall and who and administration as well as sam-

nt in his safe .. . for safe keeping.
Archer Neal got it next. He waited
till Mr. Martin was sick and then

What the two boys redd was a
document dated 1849. telling of the

built it and financed it . . . the
president of the college. Samuel
Williamson. and a list of the 26

hustled the squat brown bottle with
the long neck into his own cabi-
net. It’s in there now wrapped in
newspaper. Every now. and then he
takes it out and looks at it. . . hold-
ing it up to the light. SMALLPOX AND CHOLERA
ARCH KNOWS “The small pox.” said the writer,
“ ” sage i “was spreading from  Greens-
bettie alright” tsa whiskey surough very rapidly. The cholera
“L agree,” said Jim Jackson, Pub- Was in Virginia and in this state.”
licity Director. ‘It’s either a whis-| After naming the mémbers the!
key bottle or maybe some kind of | author said: “This Halt was erected |
wine bottle.” {by the members I have already
“How do you know.” I asked. | named. The Library at that time!
“Oh.” he said, “that’s a personal’ was 1.200 volumes. The Hall cost |
question. I'm afraid I can’t answer 2.500 dollars. We as members have
that.” built it for the purpose of the
Professor Fulcher agreed with,Eumenean Society.”
Jackson and Arch. | This part of the document
NO SOFT DRINK ‘brought up an interesting point..
“It’s sure net a soft drink bottle:”; Who actually owns Pi and Eu.
he said. “I've studied the history Halls. If the society members built
|

members* of -Eumenean Society
;when the hall was erected: A. Alex-
ander of Charlotte signed the doc-
ument.

of soft drinks and I can tell you the halls on their own with no as-
it’s not a soft drink bottle. And I, sist from the college. then the

The Graduate Record Examina-
tions, required of applicants for
admission to a number of graduate
schools, will be administered four ,
times in the coming year, Educa: | By BRUCE BROOKS
tional Testing Service has an-
nounced. During 1955-56 more than: Beginning its thirty-fourth year,
9,000. students took the Graduate;the Court of Control, headed by
Record Examination in partial ful-' Reitzel Snider, is planning a strict-
fillment of admission requirements ‘ly-enforced yet just program of
of graduate schools. activities. The Court hopes to make

This fall candidates may take the this program a fair one in the
Graduate Record Examination on!eyes of the freshman class, while
Saturday. November 17. In 1957, still not relinquishing any of its
the dates are January 19, April‘ regulations.

27, and July 6. Applicants are ad-| Periodic meetings of the Court
vised to inquire of the graduate! will be held Fridays in Chapel
school of his choice which of the!before the entire student body
j examniations he should take and: instead of just the freshman class,
jon which dates. Applicants for as was the practice last year. Vio-
graduate school fellowships should. tators can be turned in to the
lordinarily take the designated Court by the Court members them-
| examinations in the fall administra-| selves, or by any upperclassman.
tion. By way of making: this year's

The Graduate Record Examina- program more just, an accusation
tion tests offered in these nation-, will not necessarily mean convic-
wide programs include a test of|tion, but will be fairly reviewed by
general scholastic ability and ad-,the members of the Court. The
vaneed level tests of achievement: freshman violator’s name will be
in sixteen different subject matter {announced at the Friday meeting,
fields. According to Educational] while the trial will be held the
Testing Service, candidates are per- following Monday in the Student
mitted to. take the Aptitude Test! Union. Snider announced that a
and or one of the Advanced Tests.|list of the accused and whether

A Bulletin of Information which;or not they were convicted will
provides details of registration|be published each week in the
Davidsonian.

The eight members of the Court
of Control are: Reitzel Snider,
judge: Bill Gramley, Ken Conger,
senior members;
\ Bil Price, Dave Fagg, junior mem.
bers; and Craig Wall, Vernon
Broyles, sophomore members.
These members were chosen last
year by the Student Council.

PENALITIES VARY

All convicted violators will not
receive the same penalty. If the
violation is minor and uninten-

Members of the committee for|tional. such as a freshman for-
the drive, hedded by Bunny Per-' getting to wear his hat. the vio-
kinson, have planned a canvass|ilator may be given a reprimand.
of the entire campus with can-| An offender who appears to be
vassers on each dormitory hall the | cocky or who has intentionally not
nights of Oct. 4 and 5. TT

The membership drive aimed at
the freshman class held during
orientation succeeded in enrolling
92° of the class.

ple questions, may be obtained

trom college advisers.

Jim Robinson,

'Y' Membership Drive
Will Begin Oct. 4

The Davidson College YMCA will
begin its annual membersip drive
for upperclassmen with a special
chapel program Thursday, Oct. 4.

|

Car Influx...

(Continued From Page One)

“We hope to duplicate this in PARKING EXTENSION
the drive for upperclassmen,”| Plans have been made to extend
emphasized Gordon Bondurant.|the parking lot beside Belk dormi-
YMCA president. “We want asjtory southward about 75 feet to

don’t think it's a beer bottle.”

- college would need some kind of. close to 100° as possible, for we|the street which stretches from

He drew a picture of the bottle deed or title to claim legal owner: | feel this year's program is broader|the rear of Watts dormitory to the

on a ,pad.

“Look at that inverted bottom.”
he said, “Beer advertises volume
and they're not going to sell beer
in a bottle with an inverted bot-
tom. Inverted bottoms are for whis-
key.”

“Or for wine.” said Jackson, “it
could be a wine bottle. You know
back in the days when this bottle
was made they drank wine at every
meal.” He looked thoughtful for a
minute. “It makes you kind of
wonder,” he said, “about. progress
and all... i¢ makes you kind of
wonder.” :

The infamous bottle first popped
up in early August. Phi and Eu
halls are being renovated. Law-
rence Murdock, a Mooresville con-
struction man, was tearing away
rotten trimming on a seaffold high!
up on a Eu wall. :

MURDOCK’S ACCOUNT

“We were tearing away the trim-
ming near a corner,” said Murdock, |
“when all of a sudden there the
bottle was... just kind of laying
in a corner. I didn't think anything
about it then... it just looked
like any old whiskey bottle to me. |

“I even started to throw it down,
but then I thought maybe I'd better ,
not because it would ‘break and
someone would step on the pieces. |

ship.

“As far as I know.” said Dr. Cun-
ningham, “the college has no deed

‘and can include every student's
interest.”
One of the newest fields on the

highway. This area is graveled now
and is available for parking. The
development of this space coupled

or title. I'm sure however that the! program. Gordon pointed out, is| with the re-opening of the street

members of the society meant for! the non-varsity. intercollegiate ath-

the Halls to be part of the school.
MEMBERS PAID

“It is interesting to know, how-

ever, that.the members took it. upon
themselves to pay for the Halls.
In fact, at one time when we were
5.000 dollars short on the renova-
tion I remembered what the docu-
ment had said and thought that
maybe the present members might
like to ‘make a repeat. But then
Mrs. Clarence Hudson, who is pay-
ing for the renovation. said she
wanted to see the Halls finished
and so I didn't need to worry about
raising the money. Mrs. Hudson is
certainly a fine woman. She tives
in Orange, N. J.. and had two

: brothers who graduated from Da-

vidson. Her improvements on the
two Halls have certainly helped the
looks of our campus.”

Mr. Gant, the college mainte-
nance man, also brought out an
interesting point.

“I walked into the faculty, room

letie program. Basketball and hand-
ball teams made up of Davidson
-“¥" members will play against simi-
j lar non-varsity teams from other
| colleges, and it is hoped that teams
jean be organized to play other
sports.

One of the new fields for active
participation in the “Y"” is the
non-varsity intercollegiate athletic
program, which has scheduled
‘games with other “Y"-sponsored
| teams at various colleges in basket-
ball, handball, and other sports.

French, Crawford
Resume Teaching

|

|

behind Watts will provide approxi-
mately 30 more parking places.

Cars may be kept on the campus
for less than ten successive days
without their owners having to buy
permits, but these cars are not to
be parked in the areas immediately
adjacent to the dormitories. These
spaces are’ to be reserved exclu-
sively for cars with permits.

$1 PER’ SEMESTER

The permits, which cost one dol-
lar per semester and can be pur-
chased at the Bursar’s office, are
in the form of a block “D” decal
with the name of the college and
a serial number printed thereon.
Slightly over 200 have been pur-
chased thus far. Students have been
asked fo display theirs on the front
windshield behind the rear-view
mirror,

Davidson, Sept. 21—Professors| Those who own cars and others
Howard P. French, Jr. and George who will be bringing family cars
|W. Crawford have resumed their|¢o the campus during the year are
jteaching duties at Davidson Col-|Urged to study the parking regu-
jlege after an absence of one year.|!ations posted on bulletin boards
Dr. French, ‘Associate Professor | round the campus.

rT

!

one day,” he said, “and saw this
old brown bottle sitting on the! an exchange professor with the
window sill. I picked it up and/ University at Tubingen, Germany.
started down the hall to throw it’ Dr. Karl Gunther Jung of Tubin-

of German, was for the past year|

BAKER DESIGNATED

“So to get it out of the way 1
gave it to this boy who was work: away. Then somebody stopped me

HIGH ATO HONOR

gen served on the Davidson fac-

ing with me. He took. it down ‘and told me what it was. But how

“Then, ‘hey,’ he called, ‘there’s
some kind of a paper in this bottle.’

| was 1 to know? I just thought it
| was an old whiskey bottle some-

body had left in the room.”

ulty in his absence.

Professor Crawford, Assistant} Davidson College graduate Linny
Professor of Physics, was at Ohio|M. Baker of Kannapolis has been
State University completing work|chosen for the Thomas A. Clark
toward the Ph. D. degree in phy-}Award by the Alpha Tau Omega
sics. He is a graduate of Davidson,| social fraternity.
earned the master’s degree from} The award is the highest that
the University of North Carolina|the fraternity can bestow, and
and has taught both in the public|selection is made from the thou-
schools and at N. C. State College.|sands of fraternity members all

Dr. French is a graduate of|over the United States. It includ-
Swarthmore College, and earned|ed an all-expense trip to ATO'’s
both the M.A. and Ph. D. degrees} Mackinac, Mich. Congress Septem-
from the University of Indiana.jber 5-8 and a specially designed
Before coming to Davidson he was| ring.

a faculty member of Indiana, Idaho| Baker was president of the ATO
and Cornell universities. chapter at Davidson during the

He is a member of Phi Beta/ past two years, and one of the out-
Kappa, Delta Phi Alpha, the| standing all-round students. He was
American Association of Teachers|a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
of German, the Linguistic Society|Omicron Delta Kappa, and was
of America and the Universal Es- | salutatorian of the class that gradu-
peranto Association. ated May 31.

Professor Crawford is a member} Linny is the son of Mrs. Bertha
of Sigma Pi Sigma, Sigma Xi, the| Baker of Route 5, Kannapolis, and

EUMENEAN’S 107-YEAR-OLD SECRET
“it’s a whiskey bottle alright...”

hd

French Circle, the American Asso-
ciation of Physics Teachers, the
Southeastern Section of the Ameri-
ean Physical Society and the Re-
serve Officers Association, in
which he is a lieutenant colonel.

is a graduate of J. W. Cannon high,
where he was president of the stu-
dent body. He attended Davidson
on a George F. Baker scholarship.
This fall he will enter the Duke
University school of medicine.

worn his hat is subjected to penali-
ties such as having to hand out
Davidsonians on Fridays or as-
sisting the football managers. If a
freshman appears extremely ob-
noxious and continues to break the
freshman violations, he is subject
to appear before the Student Coun-
cil.

The Court of Control was
esablished in 1923 to serve as an
arm of the Student Council and to
carry out a program of freshman
development.

Because Davidson College is

steeped in traditions that gradu-
ates have come to appreciate and
to respect, the Court's main pur-
pose is to bring the freshman class
to an understanding and an appre-
ciation of the traditions. If the
freshmen do not come to appreciate
and accept these traditions, then
it is the job of the Court of Con-
trol to strictly enforce them.
, In commenting on the Court this
year, Snider said, “Each member
of the Court feels that the Court
program is a constructive and bene-
ficial instrument for developing
the freshmen, and furthermore,
each member of the Court of Con-
trol this year is dedicated to carry-
ing out this purpose.”

So far this year the Court is
pleased with the conduct of the
Class of 1960. For example, having
been given the perogative of
whether or not to wear their caps
at the football game Friday night.
the class voted, on their own ac-
cord, in favor of wearing them.

CLOSING EARLY?

The Court of Control plans to
disband after Thanksgiving this
year, and, at that time, the fresh-
man class may stop wearing their
caps. Of course, if the freshmen
were to beat the sophomores in
the annual field day, the caps
could automatically be disearded.

W. C. CHANCELLOR
COMMENTS ON N.S.A.

Greensboro, N. C.—(LP.)}—Com-
menting on the findings and. impli-
cations of the NSA study, entitled
“Student Government, Student
Leaders, and the American col-
lege,” completed by the United
States National Students Associa-
tion, Dr. Edward K. Graham, chan-
cellor of the Woman's College,
University of North Carolina,
stated:

“The important thing about the
NSA study of student government
is not that it has completed some-
thing. The important thing is that,
if properly followed through, this
vital NSA project will have started
something.

—_————

i

|

Career As Teacher
To Be Discussed

Students interested in a career
as a teacher in a Christian col-
lege may informally discuss latest
developments in the field with
Doctors Hunter B, Blakely and W.
Taylor Reveley at 8:30 p.m. Sun-
in the Student.
Lounge of the Davidson College
Church.

Dr. Blakely is secretary of the
division of higher education of
the Presbyterian Church in the
U. S. Dr. Reveley is professor of
humanities and chaplain at South-
western University in Memphis.

The YMCA’s Commission on Ef-
fective Citizenship is planning
chapel talks and membership meet-
ings in which notable lawyers will
explain the political issues sur-
rounding the coming elections.

Dr. Samuel W. Newell, Jr., Th.
D., pastor of the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church, will give the
Vespers sermon Sunday, Sept. 23.

Dr. Newell, a native of Mis-
sissippi, attended Davidson, Emory
University, and Union Theological
Seminary and has served as a mem-
ber of the faculty at Battle Ground
Academy and Georgia Institute of
Technology.

day, Sept. 30,

Strict But Fair Program

Snider added that if the fresh-
men showed unusually good spirit
and demonstrated that they were
well on the way to developing into
college men, there was a chance
that the regulations might be lifted
prior to the announced time.

Though some of the freshmen
may resent the regulations imposed
on them, it is the feeling of the
Court of Control that these regu-
lations, when looked back on in a
few years, will make the fresh-
man year seem more colorful and
memorable than it would be other-
wise.

member that, although during rush
week the regulations may not have
been strictly enforced, after Fri-
day all upperclassmen will bear
down in full force on the enforce-
ment of these rules.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

The swimming pool will be open
for recreational swimming starting
Monday, September 17, from 3:30
to 5:30 p.m. :

Anyone interested in playing in
the Football Band this fall should
either get in touch with Mr. West
or any member of the band at the
earliest possible date. No audition
will be required to become a mem-
ber. The Football Band will make
a trip to the Washington and Lee
game at Lexington all expenses
paid.

Safely Committee
Is Organized By
Davidson Citizens

D. C. News Bureau — Safer
Streets and children are the goals
of a safety committee which held
its organizational meéting last
Monday in the town offices.

The meeting followed an en-
dorsement by the mayor and town
council Monday night of a citizens’
petition to launch a safety drive on
Concord Road. Seventy-seven resi-
dents of Concord Road and vicinity,
from the town limits to Main
Street, signed the petition.

Last night’s meeting was de-
signed to elect officers and set the
pattern for immediate action. Sev-
eral plans were included in the
petition, among them:

1. A. stop-and-go traffic signal
at the intersection of Concord
Road and Thompson street.

2. A speed’trap at the same in-
tersection.

3. Reduction of the speed Iimit
from 35 to 25 miles per hour on
Concord Road.

4. Request the Highway Depart-
ment for more and larger “Watch
For Children Playing” signs.

The petition, drawn up by Mrs.
H. P. Pord, noted that the road
is a trouble spot for speeding
and reckless driving, and carries
a ‘heavy load of commercial ve-
hicles as well as local traffic.

She noted that it might be pos-
sible or necessary to organize a
volunteer corps to stop cars en-
tering Davidson by Concord Road,
ask the drivers to’ proceed care-
fully, and give to them a mimeo-
graphed presentation of Davidson's
safety needs.

After hearing the petition, and
a delegation of citizens who ap-
peared to endorse it, the council
named a safety commission to pro-
ject the move.

Members are Ernest A. Beaty,
from the council; Col. John D.
Sapp, representing the P.T.A,;
Mrs. Ford; Kenneth Brotherton for
the Catawba Avenue neighborhood.
borhood.

Also, Kenneth Caldwell for the
Walnut Avenue community; Dan
S. LaFar, Jr., for the Davidson
College students; and D. D. Hul-
burt for the North Main Street
neighborhood.

a  —,

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20” OFF

DIAMOND NEEDLES

FOR ALL POPULAR

RECORD CHANGERS ONLY
$12.95

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

138 West Trade Street

‘Phone ED. 2-8257

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1956

Medical School.

Dean Davison is secretary of the
selection committee in North Ca-
rolina for next year’s candidates
for the coveted two-year scholar-

sity. Application deadline for in-
terested competitors is Nov. 1,
1956.

some definite quality of distinc-
tion in scholastic ability and phy-
sical vigor, “Dean Davison said.

study at Oxford.

“The Rhodes scholar may choose
studies in any of Oxford's 23 col-
leges,” Dean Davison, himself a
former Rhodes scholar, pointed out.
“The award may be extended to
three years in certain cases ap-
proved by the Trustees,” he added.

A Rhodes scholarship is worth
six hundred British pounds an-

ON FORUMS, TRAVEL

ships at England's Oxford Univer-!

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
COMPETITION OPENS

Rhodes Scholarship competition for. 1957. was announced
Tecently by Dean W. C. Davidson of the Duke University

nually, which with care is suffi-
cient to cover a Rhodes scholar’s
expenses for term time and vaca-
tion.

“The Oxford school year com-
i prises three terms of two months
| each. leaving six weeks vacation
‘at Christmas and Easter, as well

“The setection committee is in-!as three months during the sum-
terested in good all-around young mer to tour Europe and other
men; that is, those who have shown! places,” he noted.

Some 21 former Rhodes scholars
are now living in North Carolina,
including the following eight mem-

Any unmarried man between 19. bers of Duke faculty: Dr. William
and 25 who is at least a Junior M. Blackburn; Prof. William B. Bo-
in college is cligible to compete |lich; Dr.
The freshmen are urged to re- for one of the awards which each! Davison; Dr. William H. Irving;
year sends 32 American men to'L. W. McKenzie, Jr.;

Bayard Carter; Dean
Frank K.
Mitchell and E. R. Wicker.

Any interested student may ap-
ply either in the state in which
he resides or in the state where
he is attending college. Applica-
tion may be obtained by writing
or telephoning (Durham 9011; ext.
8277) to Dr. W. C. Davison, Duke
University, Durham, North Caro-
lina.

Union Sets Up

New Committees

Two new College Union committees have been added to
those which have been serving in the past several years. The
Round Table committee headed by Leon Howell has been set
up this year to serve as a basic nucleus in the discussion of
problems and controversial topics which face the student’s life
on campus and affairs in general on the broader aspect of
world affairs.

In charge of debates, forums, | tion of works of art through the
and open discussions, the Round Art Gallery committee. Entertain-
Table committee will offer an out-| ment for students through the Col-
let for ‘students to participate in|/lege Union facilities will be
the discussion of topics of interest. | handled by Jim Martin and the

Travel Committee j Social Committee.

The second new committee which, Buddy Bullock is in charge of
has been added this year is the|the Music Committee which will
Travel Committee headed by Jock} keep posted on student opinion of
Reeder. It is the intention of this | those records which are in demand,
committee to provide travel infor-| but. not represented in the record

mation with respect to summer va-|of the Music department.
cations and maintain a file of in-

formation with respect to travel
opportunities.

Starting quickly into action the
committee has been discussing
plans for a trip to New York City
during one of the vacation periods
which may be held in connection
with a group from Queens Col-
lege.

The remaining committees are
continuing the work which has
been started in the past several
years. John Trotti is leader of the
Bookshelf committee which is ac-
tive in providing reading facilities
and material in the lounge of the
College Union. Jerry Brooks is
spokesman for the Special Features
Committee which will provide such
services as sponsoring bridge tour-
naments, and variety shows.

Games, Theatre

The Games committee is led by
Buddy Dye this year. The Theatre
committee is under the leadership
of Henry Parrish. Ed Stevens is in
charge of the Camera committee;
Bill Martin leads the House Com-
mittee, Clagget Taylor takes over
the film committee.

Harry Antrim will provide for
the arrangement, display and lJoca-

Dr. Lingle...

(Continued From Page One)
Va.,° and Mrs. Dan Caldwell of
Greensboro,

Dr. Lingle was one of three
sons born to Wilson Alexander
Lingle and Martha Jane Lynch
Lingle of Rowan county. The elder
Mr. Lingle served with the Con-
federate Army during the Civil
War, and returned to rear his
family as a farmer.

All three of the sons became
Presbyterian ministers. The eldest,
William, became a missionary to
China, and died in 1941 after 40
years in the foreign field.

The Lingle Chapel of the David-
son College Presbyterian Church
was built in honor of Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, whose name is synono-
mous with the development of
Davidson College and with the Pres-
byterian Church, U. S. during the
past half-century. He was known
and beloved by churchmen and
laymen of the Presbyterian Church
and of other denominations
throughout the world.

Welcome...

Class of ’60

—And To All ‘Our Old Friends
Too, Of Course.

We are your headquarters in Davidson for all
your Cleaning and Pressing needs. We invite

your patronage.

Jackson Cleaners

OPPOSITE GULF STATION

MAIN STREET

DAVIDSON, N. C.
