Cat's Meow

LEON HOWELL

THE FURMAN SPIRIT

If there has been any one game of basketball in the three
years that I have been at Davidson that I would have hated
to miss, it would be the Furman game immediately before
exams. Not only was the whole team playing superbly as a
unit, but several individual plays remain indelibly impressed
in my memory.

However, the most impressive aspect of that game to me
was the wonderful backing which the team received from
the fans. From an almost jammed gymnasium came vociferous
and spontaneous outbursts at outstanding plays and particular-
ly memorable was the standing ovation which the squad re-
ceived as they huddled during several time-outs.

This type support has been a missing element here at
Davidson for a period that has extended too long. Several of the
players commented that they certainly feel like giving much
more when the school demonstrates in such a convincing man-
ner that it is behind them.

No one deserves more credit and support for the way they
perform on and off the court than the cagers. It has been
particularly hard for them to face the tough schedules of the

past few years with a student body that remained indifferent.

or even hostile to them. Now we have an unusually capable
squad. Let’s give them an indication of our appreciation by
backing them at the games.

ESSENCE OF SPORTSMANSHIP?

Despite the need for enthusiastic spectators, it has become
a point of increasing concern for some people that basketball
fans have fallen into the habit of booing every decision made
by an official against “our” team. Being human, a referee
will miss an occasional call, some more frequently than others.
But on the whole they are well qualified and in a better
position to see the action than those in the stands.

Some consideration of just what sportsmanship constitutes
and the demands it should make of a fan, no matter how avid,
are in order. We have become heirs to traditions at Davidson
that we must protect if we are to continue to be recognized
as outstanding in the college ranks.

For another example of behavior below that usually
credited to people of college age, I cite the treatment that
Darrel Floyd received here during the Furman game. An
outstanding player, his conduct in the face of a barrage of
hoots and jeers (certainly undeserved) was to be commended.
Not only did he show that he was a team man as well as a
scorer here, he also displayed that he was bigger than a good

many of the people who booed him.

r |
ALL FOUR WINTER DAVIDSONIAN
SPORTS SEE ACTIVITY i i ail CONGRATULATES DOLE
NEXT WEEK FOR HIS SERVICES
ALENDA LUX UB!i ORTA LIBERTAS
PAGE THREE . ieee a FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1956

VMI, W&M Invade Cat Lair This W

Winter Track Season
Opens Tomorrow

By OYVIND NORSTROM

The indoor track season, which this year includes only
three meets for Coach Pete Whittle’s Red and Black Wildcats,
gets under way this Saturday with the traditional Virginia
Relays in Lexington, Va. Though being handicapped by lack
of an indoor track, and also suffering from lack of practice
during exams, a four-man team will try to defend Davidson's
track honors garnered in previous years.

Best chance to return victor
among the four Wildeats is Pete
Ashcraft, who has been promising
in work-outs and should make a
fine 2 miles race. In this race
Norwegian Oyvind Norstrom makes
his first try at indoor racing. Bill
Gramley and Bill Lazenby will
compete in the shot put, and Gram-
ley looked good in his workouts
The Virginia Relays, of course, is
mainly a relay meet, with only a
few open, individual events.

About 30 men have this far
signed up for practice for the
track season, among them many
of the “veterans” from last year.
There are also several new men
out, among which coach Whittle
keeps an especially open eye at Outdoor track gets started in the
frosh sprinter M. Armstrong, cross | beginning of April, with a meet
country letter man “ Elder (who | against Florida State and Mercer
is out for the 440), C. Godsey| in Macon, Ga. Work-out for out
and Andy Hamilton, slag 880 | | door track will get under way
men, hurdler J. B. Hambright | February 27, and coach Whittle
and another sprinter, J. W. Weller.) encourages new talents to come
The track squad did not lose very out. The outdoor schedule i

many of the top men by graduation, and the Conference Meet in Blacks
of

ern Conference meet, also in
Lexington, on February 18. It
is the plan to take a complete
team up there, and with the
two weeks of practice that the
men will pick up till then,
a good showing should be pos-
sible—in spite of the moral
depression under which the
team will be suffering from
having to go away from the
Mid-Winter celebration The
third and last meet of the in-
door season is the Atlanti-
Coast Conference in Raleigh
on February 24, where David-
son will be represented in the
open-conference events

good,

and “Pete” Whittle is expecting) burg, Va., in the middle May
fine results from his men jis already the great goal. David
The next meet, after the | son finished third last year, and is

Virginia Relays is the South- | out to better that.

At the half way mark with six | from the unbeaten ranks
teams in the interfraternity bas- IFC BASKETBALL

ketball league boasting records

of at least three wins and one de- —
feat it would appear that the com-| Team Won
petition this year will be the Beta

keenest in many years. As of Wed-| ATO

nesday the Betas and ATO’s were
tied for first place by virtue of

Sigma Chi
Kappa Sig

having won one more game than} SAE
the rest. With only two defeats} Phi Delt
the SPE’s and Phi Gams are still! SPE
very much in contention and both; Phi Gam
have shown that they are capable| K A
of beating the best. The Phi Gams! Pika

Pi Kapp Phi
Cc ampes Club

proved this earlier in the season
when they dropped the Sigma Chis |

Ce Me Rh Wk we >

i
t
bee

When classes are through
And your girl’s close to you

It’s a psychological fact:

— more people get more

DAVIDSON

N

0 FG FT

CONFERENCE POSITIONS HANGS ON
THESE CRUCIAL CONTESTS

On February the third, fourth, and seventh, the Davidson
| bi isketball team has three games, two of these conference tilts.

| Tonight the Wildcats engage William and Mary here at the

. : ; 1 ‘ : e: °
CORR 2 | 4 2 I 3 | Johnston Gymnasium. William and Mary has a fine ball club
: ie gee and the game tonight shouid prove to be very exciting.
HARDING be dee | 4 2 4 In their last game together the
- Wildeats edged out William and! at Guilford N.C. In the last gs
‘  ¥ . : a ' , ast game
MINTZ > A a alt Mary in. one of Davidson S best! ‘navidson. set ‘a new high point
' & aw Eh 4 3 ames, But the results of their seoring record of 108 points in
: : EO, eee sai contest, oon's mean anything defeating Guilford. The Cats
wMcoSW AIN 2 5 > d _ vecause William. and . Mary will should have an easy time of it, but
e oo e | put g ae a me genie Guilford could give them lots of
nelle on widcats” Wil ave. tO WOFK) trouble since they are playing on
MARTIN O14 3 ‘dnge SO er © Veer their own floor
| Tomorrow night Dr. Tom Scott's :
.: > Smee BY neon hedthi VMI in the esto poi Davidson has an excellent basket-
SPEARS 32 d ference. gathe of the series: ‘This bali team this year with a record
Fe ee oad » ___y Bf | game willalso be played in Johns. | Of rag ng _ Long leases. It
SHAW & 3 ton Gymnasium, and it is the first pie peso — ae yo a ball
bi frodirsia of Davidson and VMI clu br wave & pancoeg record
: e a mn: li! Mt VEE Ras a good. ball team ee ee Leading
MILNER 34 | 4 3 Davidson will have to. fight to the Cats in their winning ways are
Ps e win this one also Captain. Hobby Cobb, Ray Harding,
© emma ween wee <niiiiiaal > j ¥ “he ‘eeks. Semi
FERGUSON Ai é o Monday night the. Davidson hard-| | Joe Milner, Richard Weeks, Semi
be 2 ww wooders take Guilford College | Mintz, and Dave Hollingworth
ee a Z pene: canine
ADAMS 42 2 |
8 ane 7 }
oveas = 9 einige j y
WEEKS 43 4 4 @ vie 10
HOLLINGSW 44 se ee
b :
Sprin | practice started
a wesc = one week nd under the watch-
LYON AS ry | 2 ful eye of Coach William Dole
; next year’s hopefuls and stalwarts
began orking together, Their
| chance of forming a Winning team}
ad P| ave high because they are under the |
direction of probably the best foot-

oe inane of Cat’s record-bre

|
ating 108 points against Guilford

json in 1951

-/"Calfish” Meet VP! and Wotford Next Week

By JIM PAGE
On Monday Feb. sixth, the David-) Individual Medley and along with
son's swimming team goes to James. a former high school state
V-P.L for what will probably be champion, is a constant threat in|

|

|

Lost’) On Wednesday the eighth, they will

|

swim. the Wofford ‘Terriers at high in last years standings |

| Wofford. Wofford | isn’t. considered by!
VV. P. 1, already holding one @oyeh Hambright to be quite the |

| victory over Davidson is, along threat that VPI They have

with VMI, one of the two! covers] good sprinters, but are |

i strongest teams in the Southern [j¢kine in depth

Conference Grossman, theirs

| cord in the fifty and is
| in the
| habit of

Pieasure helps your disposition.

If you're a smoker, remember

pure pleasure from Camels
than from any other cigarette!

No other cigarette is so
rich-testing, yet so mild !

sprinter

their toughest meet of the season. |

holds the conference re
also.stron:
hundred. Plymale

collecting points in the

Here’s a good thing to do—have a CAMEL!

|

}
|
|
i
|

Davidson. With more good
men, the Wilde four close
might have en ditferent
tories. Though deficient in depth,
the Cats have outstanding
tankmen. Tommy iKivers. and’ Ed
Spires will givé Grossman and the
Wofford sprinters plenty of trouble
in the two-hundred. yard Indivi-
Medley, Billy Carrol could
ect some points. and Jerry Clark
\lex  Shepar uld do. the
in the. two-twenty: if) they

up to strengt!
That's the big qu on Will the
Wildcats be up to strength? Ex
take a lot out of a man. and
they've left: the mers a littl
flat. It takes a lot of work to
keep in shape and takes a lot
more ta get back hape after)
lay off. Coach Hambright
thinks he knows the answer. The
team works. out. regularly’ every
iday from four = to In the}
l coach words, ‘the wim and
swim and swim.’ They begin with
ja mile: and then through. two
for three hundred rd. sprints
land then six or eight twenty-five
yard spurts. For the distance men
} the sprints are a little longer—-two
hundred and fifty yard Coach
;Hambright thinks he knows the
lunswer to the question. He says

also proficient in. diving,

makes a |o

techmen are
finishing |

he breaststroke. The

Lack of depth | o hampered

up {> their current position. of
respect. Davidson's tough — scho-
lastic. standards and limited num-
her of scholarships have multi:
i plied the difficulty. of the. task
which Coach Dole and his. staff
| have accomplished. 1954’s total of

| 5-4 record on a rough schedule was

ball coach in Davidson's. history
Coach Bill Dole came ‘to: David-
and has built the Cats

3 losses was the best
and this past season's

and
1926,

| 6 win
ince

more than a respeetable stOWING, |

nial winning teams are not a}
lrarity with Bill Dole. } COACH BILL DOLE
In 1952 Coaeh Dole received his | 1949 Once again his teams were
BS desree from the University} the best in the school’s history.
of West Virginia and then went) -ppe 1950 team there had a 7-2 re-
abroad | following. year to Ger-| cord, and Dole was named Coach
many he traveled through-|o¢ the Year in the North State
out that country studying. educa-| conference
tion. He earned his-masters degree :
from New York University. His coming to Davidson greatly
Dole has been in the field of changed the Wiliest - gidizon

scene. No longer do graduates re-
athletics since his graduation from

turn to the campus exyecting to

the team will be in shap¢

Drink
‘M
O
O
R’

Mooresville
Creamery. Inc.

MB, J. Hegel

» te se an “Gea Ge see the Cats lose even their home-
Be spare ee  lcoming game.. Besides being a
ee egpdasuneliapsa meses saps feared team that tied for second
om. — hed (octian & Sayer place in the Southern Conference
Valley, Weston, and Bluefield. In

the latter city his 1940 Beaver High last year, the red and black boasts
Football Team became the first} individual stars such as Belton and
undefeated eleven in the school’s Gramley who have shone on the
history conference record books.

During the war Dole spent 41 ° ens
months in the physical training} Sering practice will indi-
program of naval aviation as an} cate the success of next year’s
instructor in mass exercise and| team. Coach Dole’s main ob-
testing. After his release from jective in these twenty days
ervice, he resumed his football ot wselt: le: 40: dette): the vee
coaching while serving as Director

ning attack. He said that the

| of Athletics at Fayetteville High ,

/School in North Carolina. His major attention is being given
teams there compiled the amazing] to the offensive line play. Also
record of 28 wins, 3 losses and 1} the staff is striving to develop
tic, ‘and they won -the State)

the effectiveness of the
blockers. Coach Dole pointed
out that the incoming fresh-
men will have to give depth
to the team for the Cats have
only four returning guards,
four tackles and two centers.
lf anyone can shape the 1956
Wildcats into a victorious team
it is Coach William Dole.

Championship crown in both 1947}
and 48: During three of his years
at Fayetteville he was a member
of the North Carolina High School
\thletic Executive Committee. Not
| confined to one sport, Dole or
ganized the first State High School
Basketball Tournament in 1948.
His football suecess attracted the
attention of Eastern Carolina Col

lege to which he transferred in

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

