PAGE FOUR

Company ‘F’ Wins ROTC
Field Day Competition

Company F of the Davidson ROTC Regiment, commanded
by Cadet Capt. Dewitt F. Helm, captured first honors in Field
Day Competition at Davidson on Tuesday. 31 January, 1956.
The Field Day emphasized basic drill and command skills.

Finishing in second place was
Company C, commanded by Cadet ten
Captain Lawrence W MeIntosh Continuing to Station Four, the
and in third place was Company A. eompanies were tested on their ©
+ commanded by Cadet Captain Rob: ability to stack and take arms
: ¢  ;-. ert C. Stewart. Other companics properly. Cadets Tom D.’ Owen and
g ee order of rank wete Conipany D, Curtis C. Cates. judged Cadets
<@ Company B, and | pany E Douglas W. Oldenburg and Clifford
“White Duck 6, this is Red All Field Dav exercises’ were M. Deal were posted. at Station
Duck 5, over...” This initiated = conducted on th np eh, to. judge proficiency in the
the ection out on the front with each of the. six compat of arms At Station Six the
lines as Lt. Col. Koonce and the regiment competing n in performed company
his walking radio ordered the = dividual unit. The fifteen exercises Mss drills and were judged by
first company into action were divided) among six \s, Cadets George R. Cousar and Law-
renee with judges posted at five stations, rence H. Wright !
* Cadet staff officers erved The ex ises also served - as a|
Le Cercle Francais judges for all the « ts irill for ‘communications, with a!
At Station Ons o net k being established to |
Enthralled by Tales dure for the inspect I f in tt rdination of events
company was tested ts Radio ut nic to a rifle com-
Of Schneiderma Philip H. Koonce H were these being the |
n Morehead servi: Marche AN-PRC-6, commonly known-as the
Le Cercle Francais held its Jan. ing movements t “Handy-1 ind the AN-PRC-10, | R
uary meeting at 8:15 on the night Station Fwo, with Ca larger more powerful set.) "
of Tuesday, January 31, at the Cobb and Dewey St ng Communicat
home of Dr. Goldiere. The meet: Station Three was between cadet. headquarters and}
ing was opened by the President, "ve position where nders the various iging
used the time. at their times.

Fred Myers, and after a gentle re-
minder by our “Sergeant-at-Arms”
John Harmon, the Marseillaise was
sung to the stirring accompani-
ment of Gregory Dimijian
Twenty old members were pre-
sent, and the president welcomed

into the folds four “nouveaux mem Koonce, Hollis F. Cobb, and Tom) administration the common objec-
bers.” These latest additions wert D. Owen Promoted from the rank | tive of a better and more effective
Gray Lewis, Bob MacRae, John Mc of Cadet Captain to Cadet Major] Davidson.

Vay, and Bob Wooten.

The Cercle was particularly for
tunate in having as its guest Steve
Schneiderman, a student at Prince
ton and a friend of Fred Myers
Fred and Steve were students to-
gether at the Sorbonne in Paris
last year

Both have a remarkable facil-
ity with the French language, and

=e"
s

Any of Three Factors
Will Promote Cadets

were maintained |dation of commanding officer or

immediate superior, proficiency in

stations at al} | Military subjects, and position va-
cancy. The following promotions of
| cadets to date are announced:

i det Lieutenant Colonel to Colonel
was Joe B. Pharr. Promoted from
the rank of Cadet Major to Cadet!
Lieutenant Colonel were Philip H. |

were Richard H. Morehead, Mau-
rice A. Crouse, John W
lin and
Promoted from the rank of Cadet
First Lieutenant to Cadet Captain
were DeWitt F. Helm, Lawrence W.
McIntosh,
‘Thomas W. Warlick

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Council Nemes...

(Continued From Page One)
student body note that the new
drinking rule carries with it a pen-
alty based on the seriousness of the
offense. The first case under this
new rule was tried on January 16,
1956, and because of the circum-
stances and the “seriousness of the
offense,” the council voted to re-
strict the student to the campus
until spring vacation, and to make
‘| the student pledge that he would
not return to the campus for the
remainder of the year within
twelve hours after having taken a

Believing that the elected stu-
dent body leaders not only have an
obligation to be concerned with the
curriculum, but also that student
leadership is an untapped resource
which can be put to good use by
the collective college body the Stu-

dent Council petitions the Curri-
culum Committee to please submit
to the C il the r for the)
inclusion of each of the courses of |
study required for graduation. |

order to begin an intelligent study |
of the college curriculum, and we |

assure the faculty that we have no
radical or immature ideas in mind.
We hope that you will abide by our

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1956

Feb. IRC Meeting

The regular February meeting of
the International Relations Club

request, and we remind you that)... heid last Wednesday evening

the. Student Council has, in com-
mon with the faculty and the ad-
ministration, the primary objective

more effective Davidson.

; widely circulated

at 9:15 P. M. in the Green Room
of the College Union
Following a brief business meet-

| of working toward a better and! ing, Jack Kerr introduced the even-

ing’s program by summarizing a

1947 magazine

Thank you for your consideration article written by, The Honorable

We desire this information in of this matter

Student Council,
Davidson Coilege

| George F. Kennan, for several years
| United States ambassador to. Rus-

-ia, entitled “The Sources of Soviet

‘ Conduct.”

drink. The new rule reflects the
students concern for maintaining |
an alcohol-free campus

The council is currently looking
into the possibility of obtaining ad-}
ditional coke machines for the dor-
mitories. Action should be _

White
hour

“Red Duck 6, this is
Duck 6, weather cool,
late, troops tired—need plenty
of training,” Their fate—red
pencil, experienced eye, and

judges’ decision 2
coming soon,

The Council adjourned until its
next meeting on February 13.
STUDENT PETITIONS
Believing that the elected stu-
dent leaders not only have an obili-
gation to be concerned in all areas
of college activity, but also that
student leadership is an untapped
resource which can be put to good
use by the collective college body
the Student Council hereby peti-
tions the faculty for the privilege |
of having student representatives |
on the Curriculum, the Calendar, |
and the Religious Exercises Com-,
mittees of the faculty: We hope!
that the faculty recognizes our in-
terest in these matters and that
the faculty realizes that the stu-|
dents share with the faculty and

Cadets in the Davidson ROTC
egiment are eligible for promo-
on on three factors: recommen-

Promoted from the rank of Ca-

We request permission to have
wo representatives on each of these
committees. We feel that student
representatives carefully appointed
from the Student Council could be
of great aid in increasing the rap-
port between faculty and students
and could offer much thought and
suggestion which would be bene-
ficial in these phases of college’

McLauch-

Douglas W. Oldenburg.

Robert C. Stewart, and

Promoted from the rank of Cadet

ALFRED
4: T.

portant fields.

PRINCE MATCHABELLI,
JENSEN-SALSBERY LABORATORIES. INC.

EXTRUDED PLASTIC,
& CLARK,

_ Steve demonstrated his ability by
giving a delightful “causerie.” or
chat, about his impressions of
Paris. The group was constantly
kept laughing by his recital of
an ancedote or a joke, and all
felt much enlightened concerning
French life in general and French
women in particular.

After Steve’s chat, Dr, Goldiere
added to the French atmosphere by
showing some of the slides which
he and Mrs Goldiere took on their
trip of last summer to England and
France. A relative state of calm was
kept while the slides were being,
shown, but Dr. Goldiere was often
interrupted in his explanations by

an “Oh” or an “Ah” of recogni-|

tion and recollection by Steve and
Fred

The meeting was brought to an
altogether delightful conclusion by
the serving of “rafraichissements, ’
and everybody went back to the
books with a pleasant abdominal
sensation caused by “The best Up-
side-Down Cake I've ever eaten”

'} Sergeant First Class to Cadet Mas-
‘|ter Sergeant were Daniel S. Lafar
and Andy H. Watson. Promoted
from the rank of Cadet Private to
Cadet Corporal were John W. Gar-
vey, Edward M. Payne, and Robert
Cc. Keown.

la
“ . , Blue Duck 3, this is White Duck 1, heavily armed troops ap-

life. }
your serious consideration of this|
petition and asks for a decision as|
soon as possible.

this matter,

The Council respectfully requests |

Thank you for your attention to

Student Council
Davidson College

Diversity Creates Opportunity

The affiliated divisions of the

VICK CHEMICAL COMPANY...

VICK PRODUCTS DIVISION
VICK INTERNATIONAL DIVISION
VICK MANUFACTURING DIVISION
THE WILLIAM S. MERRELL CO.

D. McKELVY CO.
BAKER CO.
INC.

HESS

all combine to offer ‘56 graduates—interested in training for top executive
management—an individually “tailored to the man” program in these im-

ADVERTISING — SALES — MERCHANDISING

PRODUCTION — ENGINEERING

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE

For a limited number of highly qualified juniors, a “Career Preview” sum-
mer training program is also available.

Our representatives will be at Davidson on February 8, 1956. For further
information, please inquire at your placement office.

INC.
INC.

J .
Artists Series . . .

(Continued Frem Page One)
of musicianship).

If to call any performance of a
recognized masterpiece “definitive”
were not to defeat the basic pur-
poses of criticism and scholarship,
we might say this of Bar-Ilan’s per-
formance of the “Waldstein” Sona-
ta. What we will say is that Bar-
Illan nowhere got in Beethoven's

proaching .. ‘ Down they came, the stalwart, straight and stag-
gering to meet their fate.

Student Body to Learn
About Gift Fund Project

By JIM MARTIN

On Tuesday morning, February 7, the chapel prog fi a
be SeaeRy, oo “a g. . ; the ch apel siege will way, and this is the greatest com-
€ the first in a series to inform the student body with the pjiment that can conceivably be
two-fold goal of the 1956 Davidson College Gift Fund. paid him

Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No

The speaker will be Dr. Fisher rene ae = ‘
who i ‘tor of the Mental oe acne = 15, the final portion of Bar-Ilan’s
Health in Charlotte, N.. ¢ aa pe yp ye al 7 jo recital, is a highly exhilarating
Dr. | address: is to concer! lent body the first goal of the) sou, de force which left us, and

(fund for this year, that being) p./.110n, breathless. But its stim-

"Coke does sow’ :
you, doesnt ik.

You feel so new and fresh and
—all over — when you pause for
It's sparkling with quick
refreshment . . . and it's so pure and

wholesome — Cog oo
to figure. Let it things —
_ good things — for you.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY SY
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

~~ oe

“Coke” is a registered trade-mark

© support of the Alexander Home
the mentally infirm in Char-

ulation is more that of stimulants
than of inspiration. And these stim-
ulants may well be dangerous. Liszt
is as far from the realms of the|

mittee chairman. John Me- spiritual as a cireus aerobat on a}
| trampoline |

oe Bar-Illan’s treatment of the Hun. |

timulated to consider, discuss, and garian Rhapsody was thorough and
understand the projects chosen for physical. We must not, however,
drive. It the com: confuse strenuous exercise with
feelings that only an un- art, and we must realize that even
Beethoven could not resist bursting
forth, when he had finished what
~ he had to say, with a brilliant coda
body, and to this end the commit- \y,0.0 sound and energy contained
tee has invited Dr. Fisher to talk no meaning.
to the student body about the prob sarIian had had a hard night,
jand was entitled to hit his piano
'a good, hard lick before leaving it
Fisher took his undergrad: y js critically important to- under-
work at the University of! stand this, however, and we must
Montana, and studied medicine ate careful not to imagine that it
at After | i* necessary to sit through a long
‘ and tedious program in order to
erving his internship, and’ a pri-| poor the only really “good” num-
practice of medicine, he re-: per, which has been “saved for
turned to Dlinois University and. last’
in. Psy
served four

tt
e

It-is the intention of the gift fupd

this year’s is
mittee’

derstanding of these goals will gain
the support of the entire student

lems coneerned.

Dr
late

the

University ILlingis

;
vate

ae

completed his doctorate
chaitry. Dr
vears during the Second World War

Chief of Psychaitry and was
awarded the Bronze Star for his
service. After serving as Director
of Psychaitry at the Veterans. Hos-
pital in Roanoke, Va, Dr. Fisher
moved to Charlotte, where he has |
for the past five years been direc-
tor of the Mental Health Clinic in
that city,

Fisher

CAFE

Open Seven Days
a Week
PHONE 3-6241
450 S. Main Mooresville

—

Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”.

“Opposite
126 WEST FIFTH

(c) 1956, The Coca-Cola Company i

1. SUPERIOR FILTER.

Only L&M gives you the superior
filtration of the Miracle Tip, the
purest tip that ever touched your
lips. It’s white . . . all white . . .
pure whitel

— 2. SUPERIOR TASTE
L&M’s superior taste comes from superior tobaccos
— especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos
that are richer, tastier . . . and light and mild.

FILTERS

UGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO co.

