WILDCAT OF WEEK
(Page 3)

DOC WHITE NAMED

the Davidsonian

PROSPECTIVE EDITORS
GIVE PLATFORMS
(Page 2)

NO. 20

Richmond, Va.—Ed Young of
Davidson College has been named
to the College Board of the next

volume of the Going-to-College
Hai.dbook, annually published
here. The book is designed to offer
practical helps for students in and
looking forward to college.

Nominated by college or nation-
al youth officials, members of the
College Board serve as advisors to
the editors in planning and de-
veloping the book.

At the present time the College
Board is being polled to discover
attitudes and opinions on a num-
ber of lively campus problems.

Scheduled for publication next
August in time for home town
going-to-college functions, the
Handbook will be used during the
remainder of the year by students
looking forward to coll :ge.

Sigma Pi Sigma Honor Physics
Society ‘met on Tuesday night,
March 6, in the Green Room, and
was lead into discussion by a re-
port given by President Joe Pharr
on some new concepts in the field
of physics.

It is now thought by some scien-

tists that the velocity of light is
not constant but is changing. Val-

ues calculated after World War II
are strikingly different from those
arrived upon immediately before
the war and it is thought that this

may be due to an actual change in

velocity and not to experimental

error.

It was also brought out that it is
perhaps possible to have a tem-
perature lower than absolute zero.
This could be due to nuclear spins

|

'

a

The famed Roger Wagner Chorale will be presented by the
Davidson Artist Series on Wednesday evening, March 21, at 8:15
P. M. in Chambers Auditorium.

Artist Series Presents
Roger Wagner Chorale

The Davidson College Artist Series will present the
famed Roger Wagner Chorale in Chambers Auditorium on
Wednesday evening, March 21, at 8:15 P.M. The Chorale will
be assisted by the duo-pianists, Stecher & Horowitz.

Roger Wagner, the son of an
organist-composer, was born in
Paris but in 1945 became a natu-
ralized American citizen. He has
trained choruses for Koussevitzky,
Stokowski, Klemperer, Ormandy,
Wallenstein, and many others.
Formerly an organist in France,
he has studied with Toch, Cailliet,
Dupre, Biggs. Herford, and Zweig,
and earned his Doctorate of Music
at the University of Montreal.

The Chorale, originated in Los
Angeles, is making its first trans-

Royal Festival Hall,
Paris’ Salle Gaveau, in both
Amsterdam and the Hague, and
also broadcast on the BBC, Radio
Paris, and the Dutch radio. The
24-voice group was invited to take
part in the Coronation Festivities
program in London, and has ap-
peared with many famous orches-
tras. They record for Capitol
Records.

The Chorale will present a pro
gram of musie by Vittoria, Pales
trina, Lasso; and Monteverdi; ex-
cerpts from Idomeneo by Mozart;

in London's

in the individual atoms.

continental tour. It has appeared
Debussy’s “Trois Chansons”;

Dr. Malcolm McAfee, head of the Sociology Department, leeds
a discussion with students during an informal seminar.

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE

“Seven Liebeslieder Waltzes” of

folksongs; and _ excerpts
Porgy & Bess
duo-pianists appearing
Chorale, Barron Smith will appear

as organist for the group.

with the

D. C. News Bureau—Tes

school seniors.

Finalists in the college's com
petitive scholarship program be
gan arriving Thursday morning
| Almost all will be tendered scho
|larships of some type, and most
} will be granted awards ranging in
| value from $2,000 to $5,000.

Fourteen finalists came in Thurs-

The field of Sociology covers the structure and opera-
tion of institutions and societies.

Sociology shares with Psy-
chology an underlying interest in
the relation of the individual and
the society. With History, Geo-
graphy, Political Science, and Eco-
nomics, it shares an interest in
the specific patterns of human
activity.

While the concern of Sociology
is with the structure and operation
of institutions and societies, the
job and purpose of Sociology is
to build tested theories about man
in his relationships to others.
As a part of a liberal arts educa-
tion, this job must be done within
the wider job of helping students
to understand themselves, their
circumstances, and their ‘way out”
of their predicament. This fact
means that Sociology must be re-
lated to the Humanities and Phi-
losophy and Theology, while re-
taining its own basic function of
building tested theories about man
in society.

Here at Davidson, the Sociology
is manned by Dr. Malcolm McAfee.
From the amount of sociological
discussions (often indistinguish-
able from psychological discus-
sions) heard on the campus, we
may conclude that the subject is
filled with many controversial and
unsolved problems in the sociologi-
cal field.

Although the Sociology Depart-

day, met with the college scholar-
ship cOmmittee and took written
tests. Thursday night they
feted at a banquet in the college
union. ;

Tests and interviews continued
through this morning for them,
}and now a second group ¢f fina-
jlists has come to the campus.
Group Two is being tested Friday
and Saturday and given a dinner
Friday night

After the three days of tests,

ment does not offer a course in|
“How to be Happy, Though Mar-
ried,” it does offer several ‘courses
in the sociological field. The ID | the scholarship committee will
troductory course (Sociology 3) meet for final decisions on award-
surveys the field of sociology with | ing of the scholarships. At least
special emphasis upon helping the | eight of the George F. Baker scho-
student to understand his Some! grahips wil be wiven: they at
ing up in it. Two courses in the 9 ei is ™ i a“ "
second semester survey primitive| 1% cach case the scholar
societies (Sociology 32) and mod- hosen on merit, and the amount
ern American society (Sociology vast '
22). Two advanced courses deal) The finalists in Group One in.
with social problems and social| clude six South Carolinians:
theories, and two courses on the | Howard Craig of Anderson, Car-
family deal with research and| roll Grant of Chester, Robert Mor-
theory. There is also a course on|Tison and David Robinson
preparation for marriage. | Columbia, James Owens of Myrtle
The Sociology Department has | Beach, and Scott Pyron of Taylors.
a Social Research Center in the |

je
of the award determined by need

From North Carolina are Peter

Carolina Inn. At present, a pro-| Kellogg of Winston-Salem, Her-|

ject is underway studying the ert Spivey of Mount Gilead, Ru-
young people of Mooresville. The | olf Thunberg of Fayetteville and
project focuses on the interest | Joe Verreault of Valdese.

| telephone owners to sign by the

Brahms; a group of Spirituals and | chiatrist,
from}

SCHOLAKSHIP GROUP
MEETS THIS WEEKEND

were |

Outlook Is Excellent
On Petition to Join

Charlotte Exchange

Approximately 850 out of 1050
telephone owners have signed a
petition to the Southern Bell Tele-
phone Company asking for the
addition of Davidson and Corne-
lius to the Charlotte exchange.

Mr. H. C. Broyles, Publisher of
the Davidson Gazette, says he| ~
hopes for 85-87 per cent of |

rkinson

|

time the petition is completed. |
Although a small amount of op-
position has been encountered, |

most people, Mr. Broyles: reports,
| have been very enthusiastic about |
| the project. The petition should be | |
}completed by the middle of next}
| week

| Sponsors for the move to add}
{the townships to the Charlotte ex-!
j change are the Lions clubs of Cor-|
jnelius and. Davidson, the North
| Mecklenburg Business and Pro-
|fessional Women’s Club, the In-
i dustrial Committee of the Char-
lotte Chamber of Commerce, and}!
the Davidson College Student}
Council

Mr. Broyles hopes the Charlotte
Merchants Association will also
support the petition.

In the past three years Southern
Bell has added Huntersville, Mount
Olive, Belmont, and Dallas to the}
| Charlotte exchange so, although!
| nothing certain, the chances |
| are good that Seuthern Bell will
ladd Davidson and Cornelius to
| the main line: In continuing its series
| Hugh Roy Smith and Ben Byers| The Davidsonian Feature |
jof Cornelius and Wallace Gamble the student body concerning their evaluation of the various

Davidsoon slong ‘with =r departments and their opinions on how Davidson ranks with

i of
have all been active in : 2 ;
other liberal arts colleges in ihe South and in the United States

GORDON BONDURANT

DAN LAFAR

RATE DEPARTMENTS

By JIM BRICE and BOB MAJORS

is

the Davidson academic picture,
this week polled members of

| Broyles
| circulating the petition
-' as a whole..

Student ied t re) to: very iod (90-numerical
Students were asked to rank the

AED to Present Noted seat snahee ' seore) range, The poll also showed
} 2 departments in which they — had é the avemae. Davidaon: student
Charlotte Psychiatrist completed 3: or more ~ semester's iyinke that his school ranks among
| ie eee work and to comment on the sluas: teste: Sitedinia’ ante oniiamen: ia: tell
| Alpha Epsilon Delta will present courses, facilities, and ete. in the ae oe

the South and in the United State

DAVIDSON STUDENTS Dare! 5 Woods

urant, LaFar,

noff

Ross Smyth Elected:
Sec.-Treas. In Runoff

As a result of this morning's
elections Gordon Bondurant,
Dan LaFar, and Buddy Perkin-
son enter the run-off elections
for the president of the stu-
dent body. Elections were
held this. morning follow-
ing campaign speeches by ‘the

nominees chosen by the stu-
dent body last week.
GORDAN BONODURANT
Gordon Bondurant an Eeo-
nomics major from Winston-Salem
and now serve s Vice-Presidént
BUNNY PERKINSON of the YMCA. He was secretary-

iii treasurer of the Sophomore Class
last year. A member of Beta Theta

Pi social fraternity, he has served

as president of his pledge class

Medal Is Announced and IFC representative. Being ac

tive in sports he is on the cross-

The R.O-T-C.. medal for the out-'c°Untry team, basketball team and
ta MS Il cadet has been| #seball team

nan Daniel B. Woods Award In his campaign this morning he

in of Cadet Daniel Blaine! emphasized the continuation of the

Wor vho was a second year; Student Council's efforts for the

RO cadet until his fatal ill. procurement of the Charlotte -tele-

n lhe award will be presented| phone exchange for Davidson, the

itstanding MC II cadet on|need for an inter-semester break

May 8, along with awards to other/ between exams and the’ beginning

cadet } of second semester, and the desire
rhe Daniel B. Woods Award is
on display in the lobby of the Col
addition the |
will pre

for a student representative on the
curriculum committee

to A representative from the fresh-
man. council should be on the Stu-
| dent Council, but without vote, and
}a revision of the regulation con-
|cerning freshmen not being al-

ry?
me ment to lowed to keep cars on campus were

n
awards. which
May 8

lege Union
other

ented on

be

| Dr. Paul Donner, a Charlotte PSY"! department in which they planned
big Wednesday evening, | ty major. These appraisals will be The poll: asked the student to
March 21, in the large lecture hall | turned over to Dean Pietenpol ite departments on the basis of
In addition to the! of Martin Seience Building. — al he poll. which Exellent 100-97), Very good: (90)
Dr. Donner’s: talk will. begin; TW Tesulls of the pon, witen od (85), Fair (80), Poor (70), and
l. re on, Bhi it covered approximately one-half of :
jat seven thirty, Everyone is in a  Unsatisfaetory (60) both on the na
'vited to attend this program. j the student body a Feaiemen:: wer ture of the courses:taught and: on
: ‘i ina _ |} excluded from the first part of the °°" “— '
poll), showed that students ranked the presentation in each cours
the majority of the various depart rhe nbvtalat are presented numeri
ments in the good (85-numerical ©ly on the basis of total returr
ee Departinent of one instructor
ee trength and. minor department
ALPHA PSI OMEGA ©" 8's "ct
ts and interviews for a $5,000 numerical scores. bj —
prize began yesterday at Davidson for 27 outstanding high INITIATES MEMBER'S rg fees a cdaanen
son of Maitland, Robert Living- Four new members were ini! Students Numeri- Ma-
ston of Sebring, Larry Meyer of ated into Alpha Psi Ome Answering cal Score Jors
St. Petersburg, and Bruce Van honorary dramatic fraternity Bible and Religion 244 83.1
Sant of Fort Lauderdale. terday afternoon at 4:30. The new Biology 71 91.9 92
| Others are Mike Gulas of Clarks. i"itiates are: Hugh Craig, Ed Had. Business
burg, W. Va; Thad Long. of ley, George Kemmerer, and Tom | administ: 45 82.2 87
|Dothan. Ala; Dan MeAlister of Moreen Chemeaatry oo
| Maplewood, N. J.; Brent Martin, |‘ "der the leadership of it Classical
fof Louisville, Ky.. and Lamar P#ble president, Harold. Hall, A language 46 92.9
| Riggs of Little Rock, Ark. pha Psi Omega recognizes men Economic 7 89.0 89
2 3 anita ane who have made outstanding con. English 251 86.9 88
} tributions to” dramaties at David French 87 86.5
Executive Committee on. The group forms the nucleus German 85 $15 =
jfor the production of dram History 123 92.6 95
Makes presentations on campus. Albert Mathemati 113 85.9 88
New Ruling Harris serves as secretary for Military Seier
fraternity and Kerry Spier and Tactic 177 84.8
No courses that are not taken at treasurer (Continued on Page Four)

|Davidson will be accepted for
credit towards graduation without
previous approval by the chairman

of the department in which = 66%, of Senior Cadets
course taken. This was Get Desired Assignment

Dr. C, J. Pietenpol, |
{
dean of the faculty as having been

1s

nounced by

|

Branch assignments and length of active duty tours for
decided by the Executive Com-'the MS IV cadets, who will be commissioned upon graduation

and occupations that the young
people wish to follow. The research
work in Sociology is carried on
in consultation with the Depart-
ment of Sociology and Anthro-
pology and the Institute for Social
Science Research at Chapel Hill,
North Carolina.

The Sociology Department stu-
dents have been on a number of
fields trips in the past two years

(Continued On Page Four)

Three are from Georgia: Tread | chairman of Davidson and sub-|
Davis of Atlanta, Joe Spikes of| mitted to the Registrar, who must
Douglas,
Decatur. William James of Browns-!
ville, Tenn., completes the Group)
One list. | Students who are admitted on

In Group Two are four Virgin-| advanced standing are excepted

ians, Joseph Bell of Norfolk, Le- :
ad Benaads of Mewpert News, from this, but their records are to

Dabney Stuart of Richmond, and|¢ ¢Valuated by the Admissions
Perrin Wright of Lynchburg. Committee before acceptance by
From Florida are Charles Ben-| the college.

program of study proposed.”

ane. jin May, were received by the ROTC Department this week. |
is} Courses taken at other colleges| Sixty-six percent of the cadets
bei universities. must have the ap received the branch of — their For six months: Hayles B. Mack, |

| i . choice, while the remainder re- Russell Rogers, Bill Stewart, Cecil

| Proval of the chairman of the de ceived their second or third B. Bishop, Robert W. Buchanan,
partment in which the course is) ¢hvice ind Thomas W. Warlick |
poffered and must be judged as! The largest number of commis \rmy Security Ageney for two
lequivalent both in quality and | °!0"> will be in regina with 17 Douglas M ge dl

R , : cadets designated for that branch. tis C. Cates, John L. Child, Lay
aa ™ besa corresponding Ten will be commissioned for duty mon L. Echol \ibert. J. Harris
course at Davidson. This approval); the Army Security Agency. Dewey Stovall, Maurice A. Crouse
|must be secured one week before} five in Infantry, four in Medical Nelson Griee, Jack Williamson
/the beginning of the examination! Service Corps, three in Armor, two and John Woodal!!

period. “A written statement of} '" Military Intelligence, and one Infantry: for two years: Jon H.|
such approval must be obtained by | ‘” Signal Corps se eg had Magi oe

| s Twenty-seven of the 42 ca- = =months: Hollis Ff. Cobb, Lawrence
;the student from the department| gets to be commissioned will (Hi. Wright, Lawrance W. Melntosh
serve on a two-year active Medical Service Corps: for two

duty tour, while the remain- years: George R. Cousar, France
and John Strange of| give final approval to the entire| img 15 will be on active duty =! Jordan. For six months: Charles |
for only six months. W. Harris, Harlee Smith |

| months: James!

Regen, Douglas

Armor for six
Ensign, Jon W

Assignments were as follows:
Artillery: for two years: Clifford) L

M. Deal, Ray Harding, Dewitt FW. Oldenburg.

Helm, Philip H. Koonce, James}: Militafy Intelligence for two
R. Patterson, Ralph W. Maynard,! years: Richard H. Morehead,
John W. McLauchlin, Robert C.| James R. Morrill

Stewart, Albert F. Simpson, Ben| Signal Corps for six months:

H. Webster, and Joe B. Pharr.| William H. MeNair.

stated by Bondurant as necessary.
s
Constitution Voted Debates with. non-council partici-
pants at open meetings of the Stu-
At a YMCA membership meet-|} dent Council was. emphasized.
ing held’) Wednesday night, those Bondurant: stated for his pri-
who stayed for the business part| mary objective letting the voice of
of the meeting voted for the fol-} the student body set the tone of
lowing constitutional. amendment;|the Council’s actions.
rhe Nominating Committee shall DAN LAFAR
ke its report.to the Cabinet and]. Dan LaFar is a history honors
the general membership at! student from Gastonia and at pres-
tone week prior to the elec-| ent member of the Student Coun-
fdllowing whieh time nomina-|¢j]. He served on the Freshman
can be made. The election) Council his first year at Davidson.
be carried out by the general) 4 member of Kappa Sigma social
rship not later than April | fraternity he held the position of
uy pledge class president. He is a
reasons for this change are:| member of Eumanean Literary So-
1 { pel on Friday is reserved | ciety.
for ent body. elections and For his platform LaFar stated
doe offer sufficient time to} the need for coordination with the
bt hold necessary membership | administratic n as primary in his
}imeetit rescribed by the con-| estimation for the president of
stitution the student council. He called for
2. 1 ership meetings were} the removal of the non-fireproof
held times during the} Georgia dormitory as well as a full
chapel a danger of the] realization of the telephone project
formation clickes in the election | now. pending with the Charlotte of-
of YMCA (Continued On Page Four)
i |
i >

Thirteen professors met in dormitory discussions with students
on Tuesday night in a unique follow-up to Spring Services, which
were delivered this year by Dr. Ben Lacy Rose of Wilmington.
The discussions were supervised by the Hall Prayer Meeting group
leaders, and the professors were used to give direction to the dis-
cussion and to interject their own comments, opinions and ques-
tions. Student participation was, however, the goal of the discus-
sions.

Dr. Rose’s series of evangelistic addresses began Sunday night
at Vespers with “Encounter with God’s Love.” Monday Chapel’s
address was entitled “You Get What You Really Want.’ The key
address was delivered on Tuesday night, and its title “Encounter
with Christ” was also the theme of the entire series. Dr Rose
departed from his announced address on Tuesday and spoke on the
subject “Don't Let Me Down.”

Shown above is the gathering on the first floor of Belk Hall,
where the discussion was led by Dr. George L. Abernethy, profes-
sor of philosophy. Harold McKeithen and Rhett Sanders were the
students in charge of the group (Photo by Paschal.)
