Oe MADHOWSE _)

i/o -
‘

Fey paver J)

—

There is a tide in the affairs of men which, if taken at the flood, may lead on to
. It has been called to the attention of this regrter that a few well chosen words *
about the Union food might be in order, However, when I offered the first (ard most appropriate,
I thought) words that came to mind, I was severely chided and was told that such words weré
ret in atcord with the high standards of publication of this worthy sheet ( i,e.," nm hells,
ro damns, no vulgar sex talk"). Hence, I shall be brief, Here are my suggestions for some
improvement; take then for what they are worth: ©

The first thing that we come to is the line, This line is usually mach too long ard I
suggest that it be abolished. In spite of the food(which I am coming to), we are always
amcious to ret in the line and often we find that we are pushed further and further back
by varions and sundry secretaries, Let chivalry die, I say] ‘Je eat the same stuff that they do
and are therefore just as weak, Get tough with then] Grrr. . :

The next thing that we come to are the trays. I have rm quarrel with them, Napkins—
likewise. The silverware has, at times, been roted as being more or less slightly soiled. I
don't suggest for one moment that a better wash job be done, or even that it be inspected.
Please, just put it at the bottom so those who get there late and don't have to brave the line
will have to use it. .

Now we come to the food, At this point you might tiink that I shall launch inte the body
of my teatise, but you are wrong; I haven't enough reomg Besides, each man has his own gripes
( would have said bitch, but can't—policy, you know), and what I say for myself wouldn't
apply to everyone, Sufficeth to say that sometimes it's pretty awful, The dessert is usually
pretty sweet, as is the tea. The butter has been observed in a near liguid state several times.
IT also rote that, upon occasions, the eggs have been slightly overdone, The bacon is a bit
greasy. The cereal is untampered with, and thus is good, The coffee is usually pretty bad.
When we get to the end of the line , we go to a table, I have ro quarrel with the tables, but
there is a rumor that some of the pre-med students are ruming at present a bacteria count on
cultures from the — Good luck, boys)

a 8 I would rote thet there has been an attempt to suppress such criticism of the
io, Vy Mote ona C, Shaw, This is an unhealthy attitude and sho ret be condoned. The
next time they are around, I want to hear an undercurrent of muttering.

Thank you for your kind attention; now get in there and mutter]

| lilies on sila — Submitted by 2 Very Anonymous Student

icin itiatal

