ae O— ee * eee oo Oe

Volume ti@JocIT_

—

ee ns oo ow

CUPOT “ND VSP 35 SUID’ Y NIGHT

This Sunday nisht, July 22, the College
Union will sponsor the usual biweekly buffet
supper, followed by a vesper service, for the
satisfaction of the odies and cduls of: the
unfortunate few who will be here.

Attendance at Vespers has been rather
disannointing these past few weeks, and it
is hoped that more students will take an
interest in these services during the second
session,

ATKIINON EL°CT-D STUDENT BODY PREXY

At a recent meeting af the sumer
school student council, Ray /.tkinson of
Charlotte was elected student body president
for the second sessiong to replace Bill °
Fraley, who, with the help 6f Dr. licGavock,y
will be going home Thursday,

Although the student body will be small
and classes informal, the horor system and
Student body regulations will be strictly
enforced, just as in recular session,

Additionzl studcnt council members
will be chosen next week,

VEDNESD..Y sfICHT SOCIAL

The usual Vednesday nirht social will
be held tonirht on the Union terrace at 9:00
PH. Lemonade, and coolcies will be served.
Be there]

TURTOX DIS@VERD IN CHICAD

After several weeks of diligent research,
members of an investigation team headed by
Dr, Olin Puckett of the Davidson College
Biology Department have located a living
specimen of the Frean Turtox near Cook
County, Tllinis, This very rare animal
was trapped when it approached a cage
baited with a piece of Frenoh toast secured
from the College Union Cafeteria. Present
research on. the animal is centered around its
enbryo logical development, With’ a new grant
from the Rockefeller Foundation, it is hoped
that the FREIM TURTOX may be brought to the
campus, where it will be placéd on display
in the College Union aquarium, Students who
may be interested in furthur wrk on this
project are urged to contact Nick Neurula
or Gus Gasseria in Martin Science Hall
inmediately,

.

SAY YOU SAV I? IN THE S.S. DAVIDSONIN

a ee ee er

“The Summer ‘school Davidsonien ©"

__ ee .. ,. Number 3

LTT? 10 TNS DIMN

Dear Lditor, °

The time has now come when ve, the
enlightened Davidson students of this new
age, must bid a sorrowing fcrevell to our
dear frionds in the seminar.

hen’ first they came as puests to our
cafeteria, our love for then burst into a
flame of passion- one that has “prowm mre
intense with the passing weeks, Nevor let
it be said that a Davidson man failed to
appreciate the subtle shades of beauty that
we have seen roving around the campus-——
sometimes‘ into the wee hours of tho night —
in search of better international relations,
Ve are happy in the knowledge that each of
you has managed to catch a vision(however
small) of world peace. °

And we must not stop here, for we ove
you .a debt that we shall probably spend the
rest of our lives repaying. You have opened
our eyes to some of the problems that we as
Southerners are confronted with, \'e shall
do everything in our pover to nrofit by this
experience, and you may go back to your
homes knowing that it was you 2]) who stirred
us into thinking of how to deal with our
problem,

Thank you people for being patient with
our ideas and for giving some of us a chanoe
to express them, I t vas splendid of you nt
to bother our busy professors and experts
here in the South, and instead, to accept’
and debate with the ideas of our students,

Perhaps the most lasting impression you
heave made upon us was with your delicious
cookies that night at C, Shaw's bo-rding
house; thanks, folks; the cookies were
peachy. -

Tove and Kisses,
J. C. Johnson

DAVIDSON STUDENTS VIO! SH“ HiSOOPE

The jolly old Davidson College Union
has sciored another smashing first on the
campus. lLonday night was the time for the
first showing of the new miracle procéss
picture done in thrilling SH\!TASOPES
The mvie starred llarilyn lonroe, and Pete
Morrissett was projectionist,

The chairman in charge of focusing the
projector was struck by livhtning shortly
before the extravaganza. °

If cinemascope comes to Davidson, can
Cinerama be far behini?
