PAGE FOUR

Lf

4

Je

“om

during the same period.

The USCC is the Student Work
Section for the Department of Cam-
pus Christian Life of the National
Council of Churches. It is com-
posed of the YM-YWCA, the Stu-
dent Volunteer Movement, the In-
terseminary Movement. and ten
major denominations. Pat Miller,

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IDURING CHRISTMAS VACATION

*) (Christian Youth Body
 giMeets at Davidson

‘The United Student Christian Council’s Southeastern
Regional Conference will be held on the Davidson College
campus from December 27, 1956 through January 1, 1957.
Seven such conferences will be held throughout the nation

Beach of Duke University, the plat-
torm speaker: Dr. Albert Winn, the
Bible study leader, graduate of Da-
vidson and a member of the faculty
at Stillman College: the Reverend
Irvin Elligan. pastor of the All
Souls’ Presbyterian Church of
Richmond, Virginia, who will be
leading the worship services.

—_

Davidson ‘56. is serving as Vice-

PROFESSOR W. N. MEBANE explains the operation of a
milling machine to John Hunter (left) and George Gilmer (right).
Unknown to most students, a well-equipped metal working shop

is located in the north basement

NOOKS IN THE CURRICULUM

Physics 61

Art of Metalworking

The following article is the

“Nooks in the Curriculum,” designed to acquaint students

with a number of interesting,
in the college curriculum.

One of the little known courses
offered to the students here is
Physics 61, more commonly: known
as metal working.

The purpose of the course, of-
fered only during the fal! semester.
is to familiarize physies and chem-
istry majors with the technique of
machine shop work. and. to give
them an understanding of.the prob-
Jems involved in the construction
of research lab equipment.

Professor Mebane. instructor
for the course, was quick to point
out that in no way is the aim of
the course to make skilled: machin-
ists of the students. but only to
prepare them for future work in
research laboratories.

TWO-HOURS CREDIT

The class of the two-hour course
meets sixth period Monday. and
the lab is held on Tuesday after:
noons. This lab is held in the base:
ment of Chambers Building. direct. |
ly beneath the physics labs on the
first floor.

The lab, approximately 20 by 40
feet, is divided into two rooms.

each containing varying types of
machine tools. These include metal
lathes, drill presses, grinders, one
shaper and one milling machine. |
Mebane estimates the value of this’
equipment as being between five
and seven thousand dollars.

Most of the lab periods are spent -
‘He points out that “most of the.

demonstrating to the students the

-as possible and expand the scope

Moderator of this organization.

The conterence is designed for
‘both students and faculty mem-
bers. The interdenominational, in:
terracial, and international group
, will be composed of approximately
350 delegates from the southeastern
United States and several foreign
countries. The theme is “Our
United Witness in the College or
University.” Campus problems will
be studied at length in lectures.
study groups, and general discus-
sion periods.

Among the conference personnel
will be several well-known leaders
in the area of Christian life among
students and faculty. Dr. Malcolm
Melver of Richmond, Virginia. is
serving as conference director. Dr.
Malcolm McAfee of Davidson Col-
building equipment for the lab as lege is serving. as co-ordinator ot
well as making such items as cigat-: the faculty area of the conference
ette cases and ash trays for their and@ has done extensive work in
personal use. , planning the study material. for the

Physics 61 has been a part of the , conference. .
Davidson curriculum since 1950} Guest leaders include Dr. Waldo
when it was included at the sug-
gestion of Professor Mebane, the

sregent. insteactor. Mrs. Roosevelt

Since that time the demand for., (Continued From Page One)
the course has been steady. if not took her first trip abroad.
large. At present the class enroll- gpe spent the years 1899-1902 at
ment is eight, a maximum number -ajjenswood.” a school a short
according to the instructor. Due to gistance from London where she

of Chambers Building.

Instructs in

first in a Davidsonian series,

though little-known, courses

this necessary limit in number the garnered her secondary education.

course has been restricted to phy- She traveled extensively during
sics and chemistry majors. holiday seasons, and by the time
However. Professor Mebane feels she was eighteen Europe was al-
that there are mafy students who most “old hand” to her, She had
would like to have a knowledge of even ventured to Florence, Italy,
metal working who are not able alone.
to take the course at the. present| MARRIAGE TO ROOSEVELT
time. Professor Mebane also stated! In 1903 she “feit the urge to be
that there had been several res!a part of the stream of life. and
quests that the course be offered |so when Franklin Roosevelt, my
in the spring. but that plans were! fifth cousin once removed, asked
still indefinite. -me to marry him. though I was only
Grades are given in Physics 61

| nineteen. it seemed an_ entirely
on the basis of work taken from

natural thing.”
the text book. certain assignment

The wedding took place on the
projects, and general impression seventeenth day of March, 1905, not
and ability.

quite 21 years after Eleanor had
Professor Mebane hopes to im-

burst forth to light the world.
prove his lab equipment as much’ Since the bond of matrimony

joined two who have helped shape
g,jour nation their family has in-

of -the course as the need arise
creased commendably. Mrs. R., as

jshe is affectionately called by her

correct method for operating each
machine. The students are then
able to use this knowledge ini tevel.”

INDIANA AND N.Y.U.

Two Universities To Give

Graduate Fellowships

stuff in the lab is very small equip-
ment. almost on the homeworkshop

close friends, has five children, no
less than nineteen grandchildren.
and five more descendents who
give her the right to bear the title
“great-grandmother.”

Eleanor Roosevelt's desire to be
a part of the stream of life has in-
deed been realized. What course
jthe stream has taken has often
‘been a puzzle to many.

She is a woman of inexhaustible

Two American universities are offering graduate fellow- energy, normally retiring at one

ships to qualified college seniors, Dr. George L. Abernathy,
Chairman of the Scholarship Committee, announced Wednes-

day.

A. M. and rising no later than seven
A. M. Her day naturally begins
with setting-up exercises and she
supplements her short sleeping

The two universities whose grad- 200 for fifteen hours of work per fours with brief cat-naps during

uate schools are giving these schol- week. are available.
arships are: Indiana University and’
New York University.

NUMEROUS AWARDS

Indiana University is offering a
large number of graduate awards.
with stipends ranging from $300 to
$3,600. Recipients of all awards pay
only in-state fees.

A number of John H. Edwards
Fellowships, which provide a max-
imum value of $1,500 each, will be
available to students in any of the
graduate and professional schools students.
of the University. These fellowships range in value

A considerable number of other from $750 to $1600. All completed
fellowships, with stipends ranging applications must be received be-
from $600 to $1500, are also avail-,fore Mareh 1, 1957.
able. In the School of Business the| Interested students should write
awards range from $600 to $4,000.'for further information to Dean

In the School of Health, Physical' Harold W. Stoke, Graduate School
Education and Recreation approxi- | of Arts and Science, New York
mately twenty-five assistantships, University, Washington Square,
with compensation of $1,000 to $1,-| New York 3, N. Y.

| in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

must be submitted by February 15,

uate School, Indiana University,
Bloomington, Indiana.
NYU FELLOWSHIPS

School of Arts and Science an-
nounces a number of University
Fellowships which will be award-
ed to specially qualified graduate

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.

1318 W. Morehead

Applications in completed form:

the day.
As one would expect, her daily

ua ; | _mail arrives in consistently large
1957, Further information may be: quantity. Innumerable requests and
secured from the Dean of the Grad- j invitations to speak, visit, sponsor.

and write, pour in. Those world-
savers, whose schemes for the sal-
vation of the planet are many, write

New York University Graduate| Mrs. R. for her backing.

FREE LP’s...

....earn FREE LP’s with your
purchases from us! .. . Come in
and join the Joe Little Record
Club tomorrow . . . No obliga-

tion! You select your own FREE
LP’s from our entire stock!

“Opposite ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”

126 WEST FIFTH STREET

Several members of both the
faculty and student body of David-
son College are serving as discus-
sion leaders at the conference. The
YMCA office will receive and co-
ordinate registration from mem-
bers of the student body at David-
son.

Action for Hungary

(Continued From Page One}
though the Hungarian speakers will
definitely be: here.

Interested students today were
reportedly forming a Student Com-
mittee for a Free Hungary and will
present. a petition at the rally for
those who are interested in sign-
ing. The petition will be forwarded
to the United Nations, The text
was still unknown as of noon to-
day.

FORMER OFFICIAL

Dr. Szentivanyi, a former promi-
nent official of the Hungarian Na-
‘tional Bank. along with other of-
ficials saved the Hungarian nation-
al treasury from falling into Red
hands when the Sovicts moved into
Budapest. in December, 1944.

Now residing in Waynesville.
North Carolina, he will arrive here
Tuesday afternoon. speaking to the

PROP PDPO POD PPPDDODDO

WEDNESDAY CLASSES

Due to the “Action for Hun-
gary” rally slated for next
Wednesday morning, the Exec-
utive Committee of the Faculty
has voted to shorten all class-
es Wednesday morning by five
minutes. The schedule runs as
follows:

8:20-9:05—First Period.

9:15-10:00—Second Period.

10:10-11:00—"ACTION FOR
HUNGARY” RALLY.

11:10-13:55—Third Period.

32:05-12:50—Fourth Period.

HOD PPOP OD DPODDODPOLDO DOO POO DOOR.

Quadwranglers at 3:00 P. M. in the secution “a vitality and strength
Union Ballroom. There will be aj; that it has never known.”

discussion in the Ballroom at 7:00

Tuesday evening, and he will ad- the United States in 1921. When
dress the rally Wednesday morn-, asked whether he had.noticed any

ing.

_ rrr re
ees

Frosh Prose Contest
Deadline Postponed

The editors of Scripts 'n Pranks
announced a policy change late
today concerning the Freshman
Prose Contest. The deadline for the
contest has been postponed until
Monday, April 8, 1957.

“The reason for disturbing tra-
dition,” a spokesman for the maga-
zine stated, “is to extend the op-
portunity for participation to more
contestants, many of whom have
not yet had time to finish their
creative work during the swift

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1956

AT ‘Y’ MEETING

T. Z. Koo Cites Tension
In Far East in Speech

Speaking to the Y. M. C. A. membership meeting Wednes-

day, Dr. T. Z. Koo. stated the influx of western culture ideas

early in the nineteenth century created various tensions with
which the last 50 years have had to come to grips.

From these various tensions, Dr.|through ethical and philosophical

Koo selected four areas for discus-| training as opposed to the modern
sion. First, he discussed the politi- education which trains its youth

autumn months. Time is scarce!cal tensions stemming from the) how to earn a living. Dr. Koo point-
during the swift autumn months; rise of nationalism. The old order| ed ‘out that the Far East had suf-;
it’s like that.” was centered first around the fam-|fered materially by the old em-

There will be no change in the|i!y clan, a household of three gen-! phasis, but that our culture has
contest itself, the editors ex-| erations which ranges from 40 to) suffered spiritually and ethically

Alumnus to Address
Physics Fraternity

Professor Edward S. Bettis will
speak to an open meeting of Sigma
Pi Sigma next Tuesday evening.

Originally from Morristown,
Tennessee, Professor Bettis took
his under-graduate work at David-
son College, where he was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa and served as
President of Sigma Pi Sigma.

He graduated in 1832 and re-
'eeived the M.S. degree in physics
from Cornell University the follow-
ing year.

During the next ten years Pro-
fessor Bettis was a research engi-
neer for the Pet Milk Company in
St. Louis. At present he is in the
“nstrument Department of the Oak

plained. The novel, the short story, 90 persons, which demanded that/by the new emphasis. Thus this
the essay—any prose. form is ac- the honor and interest of the clan| tension can be solved only by ¢om-

ceptable. The entries wil! be judged |
for originality and success in
achieving design and purpose.

Fitst prize is ten dollars and in-
estimable prestige. The winning
entry will be printed in the Liter.
ary Number of Scripts 'n Pranks,
which will be circulated at the end ties between this political view
of the second semester. The editors|the concept of a government “of
reserve the right to print any other! the people, by the people, and for
entry in this. issue also. the people” is evident. Dr. Koo said

The next number of the magazine |that he ‘joined the movement
will be circulated during the exam-|toward the 1912 revolution be-
ination period at the end of Jan-|cause it offered a challenge
uary. A third number is scheduled | towards.a greater and broader life.
for Spring Frolics. Secondly, he touched on the area

of tension in education. The con-
Rev. Henry D. Mobley flicts between Buddhist upbring-
Speaks af Vespers

ing, Confucian secondary ecduca-
The Reverend Henry P. Mobley,

tion, and modern Christian colle-
giate education is a source of great
Jr.. will speak at Vespers Sunday
night.

tension. There was much value in
the old system of education which
trained the youth how to live a life

Mr. Mobley is minister of the
Oakland Avenue Presbyterian
Church. in Rock Hill, S. C., and

r ; °
Davidson Story To Be
H i]
minister to Presbyterian students Filmed F rom Copter
at Winthrop College.

; Filnling of “The Davidson Story”

A native of Mississippi, he grad-, will resume Tuesday, after a short
uated from Southwestern and /tapse following the resignation of
Louisville Seminary, held pastor-| George P. Gunn. The movie is part
ates in West Virginia and Tennes-|of the “Banners of Freedom” se-
see, and served three years in the|ries, which is being produced by
air corps, first as an officer, later | the Protestant Radio and Television
as a chaplain. center of Atlanta.

He is a member of the Queensj General Thomas F. Hickey, third
College Board of Trustees and has} Army Commander, is providing a
conducted Davidson Vespers ‘in the helicopter for air shots in coopera-
past. tion with Col. John D. Sapp, David-

son College P.M.S.&T., and the col-
Chinese Christian

lege.
The air filming will begin Tues-
(Continued From Page One)
tive is-to leave.”

day pénding satisfactory weather,
and the helicopter will be here one
: : day only: The entire physical plant
Speaking from his own experi-}_. stares .
ence during the Japense occupa- will be filmed building by building.
tion, Dr. Koo emphasized that the
Church finds curing times of per-

This is carried to the extreme that
a good life would be one in which
you would “not see a single govern-
ment official in your whole life.”
OFFERED A CHALLENGE
The tremendous conflict of loyal-

The helicopter is due to leave
Fort Bragg before 9 a. m. Tuesday
and should arrive here around 10
a. m. It is uncertain as to how long
the filming will take.

Y Holds Design Contest

Dr. Koo made his first visit to

be placed above that of the nation.’ promise.

Also in the realm of education
there has come a new stress on
athletics and physical fitness,
whereas the old system put these
things aside at early ages as child-
ish games. This conflict: will greatly

and change the complexion of the en-

tire population.

Thirdly, in the realm of social
tensions we find the conflict be-
tween the old order parental dic-
tatorship in betrothal as opposed
to the modern idea of personal
choice in marriage. There is also
the broader conflict of modernism

against the strict segregation of Pro

sexes.
LAST TENSION AREA

The last area of tension was that
of religion. Dr. Koo showed that
many converts to Christianity or
prospective converts fell back to
their Confucian background be-
cause the Christian ethic demands
too much of the person and holds
seemingly unobtainable goals. This
is especially demonstrated in the
concept of lovi i
which Dr.:Koo reso
he must learn not to bking sin an
the sinner together and\eject him
in toto, but we must love\the per-
son and despise his sin.

Following the talk, Dr. Koo pre-
sented a few melodies on a Chinese
flute. An informal discussion and
coffee hour followed.

Stock Exchange Topic
For Bus-Eco Meeting

s by saying

d Mrs.

Ridge National Laboratory.

The program will be presented
in the. Union ballroom at eight p.
m. The oublic is invited.

Cumming Selected
By Language Group

W. P. Cumming. '21, professor
of English at .Davidson College,
was elected president of the South
Atlantic Modern Language Associ-
ation at the meeting of the as-
‘sociation in Atlanta, Georgia, No-
vember 22-24.

Professor John A. Moore, °42,
fessor of Spanish at William
and Mary College, was elected
chairman of the Spanish section
and Professor Pedro Trakas of
the Davidson College Spanish De-
partment was elected co-chairman.
Professor Trakas read a paper at
the meeting on “Culture in the
Foreign Languages Classroom.”

Professor Gordon R. Wood, '35,
professor of English at the Univer-
sity of Chattanooga, read a paper
on “English Usage” and was eleet-
ed secretary of the English section.
W. P. Cumming, of the
Queens College English Depart-
ment, read a paper on “Ways of
Meeting the Special Needs of
Women Students in Freshman
English.”

The association. which includes
teachers of English and modern
languages in the Southeast, has a
membership of about 1200. Ap-
proximately 500 attended the meet-
ing last week.

Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere
and Professor W. J. Monahan also

A representative trom Merrill, attended the meeting.

Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Beane

Stock Brokerage will speak at a 917 Men Received

meeting of the Business Economics
Association Monday, December 10,
at eight o’clock in the Green Room

Free Chest X-Ray

Dean S. R. Spencer announced

of the College Union. The topic of |the results of the chest x-ray pro-
discussion is investments and trad-| gram, held last week.

ing on the stock exchange.

917 members of the Davidson

The first portion of the hour|College student body, administra-
wilt be devoted to explanation and tion, and faculty received their

the remaining time wil! be open

free x-ray from the North Carolina

for questions and discussion. Pro-| State Board of Health mobile unit.

fessor Ratliff stated that his basic

definite trends'in American life

The YMCA is sponsoring a con-

The second speaker will be a| during his subsequent visits to this|test for the purpose of providing
young Hungarian architect whose | country, he readily answered, “Yes,|a thematie design for the Winter
name can not be released for se- one in particular. When I came here|Services to be held in February.
curity reasons. He will arrive here|in 1921 America was very much like |The winning design will be placed)
late Monday night and remain on| China. Now, more and more there/on the front of the literature con-
campus untit Wednesday after-lis a drive toward mechanization} cerning the Services.

noon, and a higher degree of efficiency. First place will receive five dol-

America seems to have forgotten |lars, second place three dollars,
Chamber Music Guild the inner person of man and nowjand third place two dollars. All
e
Holds First Contest

thinks only about machines,” He|entries should be in the Y office

concluded his answer with thejby next Friday, Dec. 7. The theme

penetrating comment that “Ameri-'of the Winter Services this year

The season for the Intercollege ca needs to raise the spiritual as-! will be “The Power and Practi-
Chamber Music Guild at ‘Davidson.
College will open Monday evening
with a concert at 8:15 P. M. in the

‘pect of her culture to match her ,cality of Faith: Biblical Perspec-
College Union ballroom. ,
This year's first concert will in-

scientific advancement,” tives.”
x ze
ce

clude the Christmas Cantata for ; .

voices and instruments by Lue- 2

beck; Tartini’s “Violin Sonata in G)
minor": a contemporary sonata for:
trombone and piano by McKay; "
and Beethoven's “String Quartet,
Op. 18, No, 6.”

IT’S FOR

f by £nester Field

PHILOSOPHY FOR TODAY

*"You ask me why I smile,” he said,
“When H-Bombs hang above my head,
My car’s a wreck... my gal has fled
My money’s gone... I’m in the red ..,
Why do I smile? . .. You ask me why?
CHESTERFIELDS! THEY SATISFY!”

morats Everything looks bright with
your Chesterfield alight! Cheer up
every snoking moment with more
real flavor, more real enjoyment.
Smile, friend .. . with the smoothest-
tasting smoke today, packed more
smoothly by ACCU-RAYI

Like your pleasure b'g?...
Smoke for rent... smoke Chesterfield?
QLenots & Mrere Tobaceo Co.

CHARLOTTE

economics students have expressed
a desire for such a program. The
discussion is open to the public.

In commendation, Dean Spencer
commented: “Dr. Woods and I are
very much pleased with the fine
response of the student body.”

se) fool, Dike a. Coke.

W]

Do you's

Of course. "Most everyone does —

often. Because a few moments

ice-cold Coca-Cola refresh you so.
It’s sparkling with natural goodness,
pure and wholesome —
naturally friendly to your figure.
Feel like having a Coke?

over

and

COTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
t

“Coke” fs. a registered trade-mork,

© 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

.
