PAGE FOUR

DISILLUSIONED DESPOTS........No. 4

TURING THE LATE DEWITT HELM, SENIOR
. ee re

ig

“He was in the world and the world knew him not.”

Here Lies
DeWitt Fredrick Helm, Jr.
Who believed in

1. Virginia Hot Springs, Inc
2. Woodberry Forest Sehool
3. Quips and Cranks
Born April 23, 1933 Died May 15, 195¢
The deceased was born the son
of a Presbyterian Minister at Pres-| tion of Editor Helm’s finished pri
byterian Hospital, Charlotte, N.C. duet could only be etiected by
His early years were spent in North Means of the Federal tal Se
Carolina and in Georgia, where Vice. The former, h
he lived till the age of 12. In 1945 ™Mained hesitant to suggest a wager
Mr. Helm moved to Hot Springs, that would prove remunerative to
located in the Warm Springs Val- ‘he deceased. Editor Helm
ley, “The Garden Spot of Virgini t honor and integrit; ted
He readily became a transplant: challenge. that
Virginian, and with no premoni. ‘ributed to his death
tion whatsoever, disregarded his The l:'F. C. asked the d
Tar Heel heritage with Geeta Mettanin
Environment greatly influenced udge in a contest t
his life, for his great delight was ‘‘ the Queen of Mid
to ennun te the distinetion of !! incil evidenced keen ins
the Homestead Hotel, while he election. Editor Helm |
castigated the neighboring Green- 2 peculiar appreciation for femi
brier, which had lured a “local "ne since a man
boy,” Slamming Sammy Snead, Position had little time for sen
away from the ivored . Valley, | Pleasures
Mr. Helm prepped at Woodber His death freatly bemoaned
ry Forest School prior to his at- by his faithful friends, cohort
tendance at Davidson. He‘long con- “ight-hand man, Hank Daniel, wh«
tinued to support his Alma Mater both. tolerated and appreciated his
verbally if not financially. The de- idiosyncrasies.
ceased entered Davidson College! +... the coffin ‘with Me: Helm
in September, 1962 with ‘the dis) W418 his cherished” c pies of the
tinguished class of 1956. ‘For two une Old Testament.” “Candy
and a half years he avoided the Striped Apocrypha.” and his own
public eye until that fateful day .p)00.- New Testament’ with. its
in the spring of his Junior year, gilded edges
when he was elected to that high
and honored position of Editor of | The cadets of Company F, which
the 1956 Quips and Cranks he commanded, attended his fun
An autopsy revealed that his un- eral en masse, and the members

attributed. to
lack

timely death may be
frustration. exhaustion, and
of support in his endeavor,

of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity

over which he presided, served as

pallbearers

“He was in the world and the | | “
World knew him not.” The family requests: that Gowers
not be sent it would appreciate
Nevertheless, he was continually 4.4 piu Mr. J. H. Malone
annoyed by his**cohorts on the a ;
ille te the debt incurred by

second floor of the Stupid Union 8
The editor of a rival publication M" lt
continually suggested that distribu- 1956 Quips and Cranks.

the publication of the

9 foal, Oke a. Coca-Onla,
Do you'? ger

few moments over ice-cold Coca-Cola refresh you «n.
It’s sparkling with natural goodness, pure
and wholesome—and naturally friendly

to your figure. Feel like having a Coke?

GOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

‘Arms and the Man’
Hailed as Highlight

By FRED MYERS

“Arms and the Man.” produced
by the Dublin Players last Tues
day night at Ovens Auditorium,
was not the highlight of the dra
| matic season in Charlotte; it was
the season.

The momentary establish
;ment of order, pure and intimate,
jisolated ip those wilds of space
}too large for a theatre, too small

ifor opera Seated in chromatic
| armehairs, tinted to match the
| Plumbing (and as comfortable), a
| large and enthusiastic audience ap
| plauded unknowing

Faculty Committees

(Continued From Page One)
mester

The latte: cently raised from
| subcommittee status, ilso ap
pointed, but includes two stu
dents. This year they are Perrin
Anderson and Vernon Hunter. The
Chapel Committee meets the first
Monday of every. month to plan
programs for the following month

An. important committee in’ the
past was the Examinations Com
mittee, wh original © duties
broadened into the Baker Scholar
ship Committ rhis committee
began in 1947 with Dr. W, P. Cum

serving as chairman and Pro
Abernathy, Gallent, Gol

min

diere, and Thompson working with
him.

One of its principal funetions
was to- compare. the: performances
{ Davidson students on the Gradu
ate Record Exam with the perfor

ACTIVITIES

Saturday, March 10

Movie Martin Luther”
Sunday, March 11
Vespers—Dr. Ben Lacy R

Monday, March 12
Provident
Insurance Compaay-~—I

pe; 7

Beaver Club

Tuesday, March 13

General FElectric—It

Colgate Interview
MS I ROTC Review
Business and Econom

Scabbard and Blade

Bridge Club

Chapel—Dr. Rose
Wednesday, March 14

Burroughs Machine ¢ ; Int ew All Day
General Electrie-—Int All Day
Employment Sec ty Conn fe ee
i Interviews All Day
Naval Reeruiting Team-—Unior All Day
MS If ROTC Review 7:00
Sigma Delta Pi 715
Delta. Phi. Alph 7:5
Red and Black Masquer 8:15
Omicron Delta Kappa 9:15
International | ns Club 9:15
Thursday, March 15
Winn-Dixie ( Intery All Day
Prudential Ir nee Compan \meriea
Interview All Day
American Trust Company—-Int All Day
North Carolina Employment A
Intervicw All Day
Alpha Phi Om 9:15
Friday, March 16
Reynolds Tobacen Company W All Day
Movie—"High and: Mighty” 7:00 and 9:00

Life and Accident

Actual size of picture

Bridge Club Gives
Results of Last Meet

of last held

Results the game
by
North-South; first, Mrs: |

Martin and Mrs. Spencer; second

Rush Wilson and J. W. MeCall
East-West: first, Mrs Mebane and
Mrs. Steugh; second, Nancy and

Creeey Copeland, Eight tables par

ticipated

rhe next game will be a Master
Point game and will be held in
the College Union on Tuesday,
March 13, at 7:30 PM. Mr J. A
Postell will direct. The cost Is
25c for members and 50¢ non

members

ART EXHIBITION SET

An exhibition of Da

THE DAVIDSONIAN
|
Dr. Rose...

the Davidson Bridge Club are}
‘as follows :

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1956

(Continued From Page One)

the Legion of Merit, and receiving
five battle stars for the five major
campaigns in Buroepe. From 1946)
to 1955. he served as pastor of the}
Central Presbyterian Church, Bris- |
tol, Va. In January, 1955, he be-)
came pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church in Wilmington, Dr
Rose has been quite active both
in Civie and in Church activities.
Among many things, he has been
on the Board of Directors of the
Boys’ Club of Bristol, on the Board!
of Directors of the Community |
Chest, on the Board of Church
Extension of the General Assembly
of the Presbyterian Church, U. S.,!

on the Board of Trustees of Peace

|Barter Theatre. . .

(Continued From Page One)

transparent charm. The technical |
competence with which — she}
handled herself on the stage, to-|
gether with the engaging naivete
which she coveyed, was a praise-;
worthy and difficult achievement.

Perhaps the most popular per- |
formance of the evening was that)
of Dorothy LaVern as Maude Lar-

}rabee. Miss LaVern is quite ‘ob-| thinking that Alfred Muscari’s per-

viously a seasoned veteran of
stock theatre and would perhaps
be the first to admit that she lacks
artistic insight. The artistic fail-
ure of her performance, which
more than any other set the in-
appropriate fareical style for the
rest of the production, can doubt-

ues Cole cn .. : re College in Raleigh, and has DeOM toss he attributed to the director
the Mint Museum of ¢ har! tte dur much in demand as Religious Em- rather than to herself
ing Mareh — —— if one actor or actress is
rhe exhibition, which consists of . “carrying” a scene, as Miss
iruwings, paintings, sculpture, and, i
a ek ene... | eee. |
will contain works of students. the} — (Continued From Page One) vious to the audience. It |
bins ettciak i Stecaeu
othe posing — sonian the three candidates for) should preferably not be no- |
Pee Staeii ithe editorship of next. year’s pa ticeable or even discernable.
mances of other student the| per will present their cases in| Miss LaVern played each
South and in the whol tion.’| .ditorials. Voting on this office} seene and each line for what
— ee Pr mes 1s Well as nominations for class| #* was worth om the surface,
fy sn Gaia wales if . the ifficers will take place the fol- and the content and weight of
irpose of .examinatic nd the| lowing Tuesday, Mareh 20; There | ——————————_-
ivantages of. various pes Of} will be a blackboard set up on
exam stage in chapel each day announc
Its greatest achieve vas the} ing what nominating or ballot- STONESTREET'S
iblishment of the me cholar | ing is to be done
ip program at Davi They | ( A FE
‘ the. basis and pt ure by} There have been two changes
ich » secholarsty * the/in the nominating procedure this
sa am nd Honor: gras contig year. The Student Council will Open Seven Days
nominate the candidates for. head a Week
cheerleader and the Athletic Coun-
Hy) | Q c 4 T 0 R Y cil. Voting on these candidates PHONE 3-6241
as in the past will continue to be | 450 §. Main Mooresville
done by the student body, .
7:0 1. 9:00 --———- — |
> |
7:30 P
All Day
7:00 _
7:15 RECORD— siaiiie |
ms 'D—sHoP
“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”
All Day 126 WEST FIFTH STREET CHARLOTTE
All Day
7:00 i : .
‘ 7:15
7:15
7:30
10:15

Now you can uct 20 beautiful
photos, same size as shown, on
fuxurious double weight paper for
only $1.00, or 50 photos for $2.00,
from one pose.

The perfect gift for your class-
mates, friends, and relatives. Ideal
to use for job or college applica-
tions, passports, ctc.

Minimum order 20 pictures from
one pose. Satisfaction guaranteed.

Just send $1.00 with each picture
Or negative of any size. Your orig-
inal will be returned with 20 top

elt

quality, satin finish, double weight
photos, or 50 for $2.00,

JACK RABBIT CO.
Spertenburg, $. C.
Send coupon today!

the play, thanks most especi- , formance as David was good be-

ally to her, were lost. | cause he delivered one or two bits

The male performers were, to ©f ironic repartee with rather ef-
the man, weak if not incompetent. fective timing. bling. The French-
Richard McKenzie as Linus Lar-|™2n’s performance was embarras-
rabee was not even worth mention-| Sing and distasteful.
ing. This is sad, since he had some The two Davidson debutantes
important lines. The two sons and who were recruited for the garden
the chauffeur were all too young, hideaway handled their
and too obviously straining at tech-| walk-ons wonderfully well. If the
nique (i. €, movement, enunci- simple, underplayed restraint of
ation and projection), to achieve’ these had been sustained
any sort of characterization. We throughout the production, we
must not make the mistake ef should have had no cause for com

plaint

PLAY THE RIGHT SPALDING BALL!

scenes

scenes

The new DOT® is made to give
maximum distance for the long-

New tough Spalding ToP-FLITE®
has an eéxtra-strong cover that

hitting golfer. And its DURA. takes

any

far more punishment than

ordinary ball... . yet givés

THIN* cover keeps the DoT un-
cut, unscuffed and perfectly
round far longer. Priced at $14.75
a dozen, 3 for $3.75.

the maximum in long-distance
performance. Priced at $14.75 a
dozen, 3 for $3.75.

The popular-priced PAR-FLITE®
gives an unbeatable combination
of playability and durability. Its
tough, resilient cover make it an
outstanding long-service ball.
Priced at $11.40 4 dozen, 3 for
$2.85.

*Trade-mark

Spalding’s economy-priced TRU-
FLITE ®, like all other popular
Spalding golf balls, is made with
True-Tension winding for a long-
er, more active game, TRU-FLITES
are priced at $9.00 a dozen or
3 for: $2.25.

Sold only through golf professionals.

ALDING; SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

PACKS MORE PLEASURE

because tts More Perfectly Facked /

Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke—
_ packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
