WRIGHT WILDCAT
OF WEEK
(Page 3)

re Dautdson

ACADEMIC EVALUATION

OF COLLEGE
(Page 2)

VOL. XLIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1956

NO. 19

By STEVE HUNTLEY

Dr. Ben Lacy Rose, well-known minister of the First
Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, North Carolina, will
come to Davidson on Sunday, March 11, to begin the Spring
Services Series, which will last through Tuesday evening.

The Spring Services Committee, Ga
which is composed of Don Stewart, bute to making this Spring Ser
chairman. Phil Kukura Jim Foil,| Vices the most suecessful  religi
Linny Baker, Leon Howell, Steve | CUS emphasis program in quite
Huntley, and Jim Murr, has been|® while.
making plans for the program| Dr Rose has had a full life of
and it is hoped that the Services ¢*perience and services. Born at
will be a real suecess and a bene-| Fayetteville, N. C., he graduated
fit to the student body. from Davidson in 1935 and from

The theme of the Spring Ser- Union Theological Seminary in
vices is ENCOUNTER WITH Richmond, Va, in 1938. From
CHRIST. It is felt that this theme, Union Seminary also he received
and the talks, will be matters of | the degrees of Master of Theology
in 1950 and Doctor of Theology in
1954. In May, 1952, King College,
Tenn., conferred the

special concern to Davidson stu-
dents, The four topics are as fol-
lows: (1) Sunday Vespers—‘En- Bristol,
counter With God's Love.” (2) Mon-
day Chapel—“You Get What You
Really Want.” (3) Monday Eve-
ning—“Encounter With Christ.”
(4) Tuesday Chapel—‘Results of
the Encounter.”

The Monday evening service,
which is to be informal, will be at
7:00 at the Church. The time was
set in the attempt to be most con-
venient to students.. This service |
will last about an hour. Follow-;
ing the service, Dr. Rose will lead)
a discussion in the Student
Lounge.

On Tuesday night, on the vari-
ous floors of the dorms, profes-
sors will lead follow-up discus-

gy

sions on the four talks of Dr.
Rose. These discussions, which will
begin at 10:30 P. M. and last about
an hour, will take the place of the
Wednesday night prayer meetings.
The hall prayer meeting leaders
will be the hosts. It is in these
discussions that students will have
the opportunity to come to grips
with the vital issues brought up
by Dr Rose.

All ‘students are encouraged and
urged to take part in these dis-
cussions, Such a follow-up pro-| Chaplin in the United States Army,
gram hasn't been tried in recent! serving in the European Theater,
Religious Emphasis Weeks, and|and being decorated twice, with
these discussions may well prove| the Bronze Star Medal and with
to be the event that will contri-! (Continued On Page Four)

DR. BEN LACY ROSE

honorary degree of Doctor of Di-
vinity. Dr Rose was ordained by

Wilmington Presbytery in 1938,
and from 1938 to 1941 was pastor
of the Chinquapin, Bethel, and
Beaulavilie Presbyterian Churches
in Duplin County.

From 1941 until 1946 he was a

An important meeting of the College Coffee Committee comes to

order in the Union.

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE

Committees

set

=

By LLOYD CHAPIN
Davidsonian News Editor
As the above picture of the Coffee C
there are many quite active faculty committees not listed in

the college catalogue. | :
Of a more serious nature, how-| tempts to satisfy th

eir desires if
Library, the Religi-| financial resources allow it.

ever, are the
Other members of this

ous Exercises, and Chapel Program
Committees.

The Library Committee makes
recommendations concerning the
purchase of library books. Headed
by Dr. H. T. Lilly, these six men,
appointed by the president, regu-
larly confer with Dr C. G. David-
son, Director of the Library, and
attempt to purchase the most de-
sirable books within the —
of their financial resources.

Last year, with the help of a)
generous gift from Dr. Charles|
G. Reigner, the committee spent)
a total of $10,241.67 on books) a .
and periodicals. Each department are the Religious Exercises Com-
is allowed a certain quota on the mittee, which picks Vesper speak-
basis of number of students in the ers, and the Chapel Committee
department, amount of circulation | which plans chapel programs. The
of reserve books, and the average|former is made up entirely of
cost of the books per department. | faculty members appointed by the

The committee welcomes stu-| President and meets once a se-

| Ostwalt.

(This is the second in a
series of two articles on com-
mittees of the Davidson
Faculty. The first in the series
appeared in last week's issue.
Ed.)

| imously

dent requests for books, and it at- (Continued On Page Four)

Grim Reapers of elections returns sit in solemn council to

ql
zy

29 High School Student

260 APPLY FROM ELEVEN STATES

ualify for

Bp: €

Scholarships

‘Color & Mood’ Describe

5 Orchestra’s Dance Music

The Sauter-Finegan Orchestra will play for Spring Frolic

April 20-21

The selection was announced today by

Phil

Koonce, president of the Interfraternity Council.

Headed by two of the country’s

WS ‘ ‘lwe » hi , S nts | ‘
News’ Bureau- wenty-nine high school students] top arrangers, Ed Sauter and Bill It is the ‘kind of popular

deliberate on the immensities of voting and tabulating. Shown from eleven states today were named finalists in the Davidson | Finegan, the group records for! that makes the ‘30s so well remem.
above is the 1956 Elections Board as chosen by the Student | Ollege scholarship competition ee an oe :
Council. Selected from 260 applicants, | scribed as the yreatest thing on Handpicked by Sauter and Fine-
they will come to the Davidson elections oe to.come along in years. . | gan, the musicians of the new
, a {campus for interviews and further Besides ranking with the best} a and Finegan were for! band, organized in 1952, are uni-
| Nineteen of them will be award-| College Entrance = Examination the seenes molders of some of} mately ninety musical instruments
a led scholarships ranging in value| Beard aptitude tests, the finalists — $i sas orehenteas:,| sae utilised by the twenty-two top
' ‘ from $2,000 to $5,000, and almost| "Umber among them 11 senior — — = ponetble formant — musicians to interpret the
n iS ear |: will be tendered scholarships ¢! or student body presidents, | Benny —— a oe eT Se
lor grants-in-aid nd eight. editors of papers or tg and he also wrote for Artie| created by the talented cp-leaders
o Oe At least eight George F. Baker earbooks ag ” ly ae Fineges The. band attempts to vary
Davidsonion Glections Reporter | scholarships, worth up to $5,000 \thletie ability is prominent, for aia -_ ‘ : wr . geo i gored eS
The Elections Board, headed by Archie Joyner, has draw 11 each, will be granted. Other seho-| 23 of the 29 participate in some] eal geniu ee ty pst "hemes | on sine wp Riggosetieo ~
up a smooth-working, five-week election period to be followed | larships are the Procter and Gam. | sport, and nine won varsity foot-) great band example a ‘sual aes
this spring. ' i ble Co., Union « rbide and Carbon ball letters in high sehool The distinctive music of the | section (aside from the drummer)
This is a decrease in time of one | tre peti — pe ak ey" one age he Fifteen of the finalists are from Orchestra ean best be summed up!to -color and broaden the musi
week over last year's élections | 4 I lg ica ™ = Pog kes ~ Mer - agg on the Carolinas and Virginia, and in two words, color and mood.! cal spectrum of the arrangement
that has been done to cut out drag eee se ¢ : u se ta rah i ie areas: five are from Florida. Three are} There are no preconceived sty! Among the band’s. recent re¢
ging out elections over a longer inetian i. “the pot Bh deccaun : The ééttne Citi: alee front Georgia and one each from a sc ' Bg the products of _— “Concerto ; for Dance
period of time than is actually! wont Office on the. second fiocr | ship sesivins \otal es pa \rkansas, West Vir inia, Ken- ree pe ae Saiteneeeage tal-/ Band and Orchestra, which was
necessary. cage Diag eat agian Pe tei ¢\ eionens ied eae tucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and _. 008 rather a broadening and played with the New York Phil
i Sek peck ot iD en eo = lt he ‘ psn - i a New Jersey. = - i if asi es wees marmonie Orchestra Also popular
to a start this morning in chapel! Oy days when voting takes place came after two months of sereen Selected from North ‘ arolina: | ie : : : sry i wae a tes aaenee * eck
with nominations for the three, ,, ce d ii : « by the college scholarship com-| Terry Seott Carlton, Reidsville; | 4 ms : plates eet Po “sca segs es
jstudent body offices. The first) ge a . i ws a aa pi pyres pcos ‘a William Happer, Jr, Lenoir; B pgpgep tt sennatinn posi in Mc cndle > boa _—
| runoff for these offices will take’ + yy, bonis rear doors. There will standing, College Entrance Exami Boyd Hight, Jr... Salisbury; Peter i
| place Monday morning in chapel ,,, four ballot: boxes_-one for each. nation Board tests; and leadership John Kellogg, Winston-Salem
and the second will be on Tuesday.’ 9.00 in the first floor lobby. In and character counted in the | Richard Hill Robinson,» Greens
| Speeches for the office of student). aig sin: Shave will te: two. homes | boro; Herbert Edward Spivey, Mt ke
body president by the remaining fav. Goshen snk innioee at tie _ iGilead; and Rudolf Thunberg. |
candidates will take place Friday sGithé cod: oF the: setond tioay and Fraternity Sing Set | Fayetteville }
in chapel. Further voting on stu. jnw ot the north end for sopho- |- From South Carolina are: James |
dent body offices will also be, at mores. Ballots will be counted For Thursday May 3) Thomas Owens, Myrtle Beach; Car-|
; ’

this time

All other nominations than those
for student body offices will take
| place this year only during Tues-)
|} day chapels. Two nomination slips
|for each row will be found in
| the hymnal racks. If more are
wanted, they can be gotten from
another. row or from a member
of the Elections Board in the rear
of the auditorium

Each day's nominations will then
be posted at conspicuous points
| over the campus. Also the repre
\sentative, for each fraternity on

Student Council
Submits Amendment
To Constitution

At a called meeting this past
Monday night, March 5, the Stu-

dent Council unanimously passed
requests concerning student
elections. The first was a
|request from the Publications
Board, and the second was from}
the Elections Board

Dee Helm, speaking for the
Pubblications Board, said that the
Board wished to nominate four (4)
candidates for the head of one of
the publications, However, the stu- |
dent body Constitution specifies
that only three (3) candidates shall
be nominated. The Student Coun-

|
| two

| body

| cil, therefore, was faced with two book" for next year. Bill is a mem-

ommittee indicates, | #!ternatives: (1) to submit
j}amendmext to the Constitution to
| the student body, or (2) to inter-
| pret the Constitution to mean that
| the
{nominate four candidates.
com. |
mittee are Professors Cumming,| said that he felt that the only
| Daggy, McAfee, McGeachy, and | course that the Council could
| legally take would be to submit
Two committees handle the re-|
ligious affairs of the college. These |

an

Publications Board could

Councilman John. McLauchlin

the revision to the student body
in the form of an amendment.
In a motion by Councilman Joe
Connaroe, the Council voted unan-
to submit an amend-
ment to the student body changing
the word “three” to the word “the”
in Section Ill Article XV of the stu-
dent body Constitution.

Next, the Council heard from
Archie Joyner, Chairman of the
Elections Board. Joyner requested
that the Council change a section
of the By-Laws to permit the Elec-
tions Board to re-arrange the
order of elections as stated in
Section IV of the By-Laws. On a
motion by Councilman John Me-
Lauchlin, the Council gave its,
unanimous consent. |

during third period behind locked
doors by members of the. Election
Board. Election will
madé known shortly after lunch
except on Fridays when they will

results be

be announced in the Davidsonian
that evening
In the next issue of the David-

(Continued On Page Four)

Martin Named Editor
Of Wildcat Handbook

Bill Martin, a rising senior, has
been elected by the YMCA Cabi-
net as. editor of the “Wildcat: Hand-

ber of Beta Theta Pi social frater-
nity, Le Cercle Franeais, Euma-
nean’ Literary Society, the Chapel
Choir, advanced ROTC, and serves
chairman of two committees
for the College Union.

That Martin is thoroughly quali
fied for the is evidence by
his experience as. associate editor
of this year’s Handbook.

When questioned about — his
plans for the book, Martin stated,
“IT hope to expand it somewhat if
funds and time permit and make
it into the kind of book that even
the most undiscerning freshman
would appreciate. However, I hope
to make it of value not only to
the incoming freshman but also
to the student body and faculty.”

Martin continued, “I haven't
chosen my staff as yet but you may
be sure it will include only the
finest talent available on the Da-
vidson campus.”

“By the way,” he added, “any-
one, particularly freshmen and
sophomores, interested in working
on the Handbook should see me as

as

post

|
|

|

roll. Douglas Grant, Chester; |
Amateur barbershoppers and} Howard Roper Craig, Anderson;
future “met” stars take notice land David’ Wallace Robinson,

It's time to dust off your metro-| Columbia

|
|
|

nomes. The annual interfraternity, From Virginia; Joseph Norment |
has been set for Thursday, May 3.) 361) Norfolk; Leland N. Edmund
oe So or wad Newport News; Walker Dab
of Chambers: Building lney Stuart, Hf, Richmond; and |
A list of rules and regulations | rp mas Perrin Wright, Jr., Lynch |
concerning the sing will be given burg |
to each fraternity. The | rules : H
though similar to these of last} *'o™ Florida: Robert Edward
year, have been: altered somewhat | | vingmen, scan Richard ar
for this year’s contest | pet Smith, Jacksonville Charles
Each vear two trophies are. pre D Benson, Maitland; Larry Keith
lsented:. one to the outstanding | M¢ver. St. Petersburg; and Bruce
conductor and one to the frater-| Van Sant, | Lauderdale.
nity which gives the most out From Geors Frank T. Davis,
standi performance, Any frater i Atlanta; Joe Floyd Spikes,
nity winning a trophy for thre« Douglas; and John H. Strange of
successive years is entitled to keep | Decatur
that particular eup Others are Daniel K. MeAlister
Three judges from the Charlotte. | of Maplewood, N. J; William’ A
Davidson area will be .seleeted by | James of Brownsville, Tenn; Thad
the Phi Ma's G. Long of Dethan, Ala; Brent W
i The Sigma Chi's have. won the! Martin of Louisville, Ky.; William
} performance trophy two years in| Mike Gulas of Clarksburg, W Va.
a row and need a win this yearjand Lamar Williamson Ri of

soon as possible.”

to keep the cup | Little Roek, Ark

Aoi

FRED MYERS

MR. HARRY GOLDEN

MR, LEWIS HOSKINS

Students will be given the opportunity to engage in debate on
questions of pacifism and s0wer politics in the conduct of foreign
policy on Wednesday, March 14.

At that time Mr. Lewis M. Hoskins, Executive Secretary of the
American Friends Service Committee, will be the guest of the
college. His visit is being sponsored by the YMCA Committee on
Effective Citizenship.

Lewis Hoskins, a native of Oregon, graduated from Michigan
University with a Ph.D. in International Relations. He was with
the Service Committee in China for two years before becoming
National Executive Secretagy of American Friends Service Com-
mittee in 1950. Many of his remarks will be taken from the pam-
phiet “Speak Truth to Power.”

Mr. Harry Golden of Charlotte, the Editor and Publisher of
the Carolina Israelite, will be Mr. Hoskins friendly adversary dur-
ing the discussions.

Harry Golden, who is a native of New York, is known to
Davidson students for his talk in Chapel several weeks ago.

Both of these men will be in the Union Ballroom and all stu-

| legislature

The fact that the Virginia State
fit to subsidize
Robert Porterfield’s repertory com
pany both at Abingdon and on
National Tour” (nine states), is
deeply encouraging to those who
are following with intense interest
the seattered signs of increasing
cultural awareness in the United
States and in the South. This sup
port given Porterfield is, certainly
the best interests of the Vir
ginia State Chamber of Commerce,
and yet there is no reason why it
should not be, If Shakespeare can
be gotten into the backwoods, it
does not particularly matter why
or how

The Barter Players are com-
ing and going as the group
changes from a resident com-
pany in the summer to a road
company in the winter. Thus,
standards are bound to fluct-
vate from season to season
and from production to pro-
duction. This year’s touring
troupe, which made its only
appearance in North Carolina
last Friday evening at David-
son, was unfortunately not of
that quality which this writer

sees

in

dents are invited to make use of the opportunity to talk with them.

has remarked in Barter com-

BILL FINEGAN AND ED

pe

DIE SAUTER

Barter Theatre Plays
Add to American Culture

The significance and importance of the Barter theatre,
of the Commonwealth of Virginia,” cannot be over-emphasized

panies of previous seasons.

The play, “Sabrina Fair,” a re
cent Broadway success, is a warm
and engaging romantic
which has something good-natured
and mildly significant to say about
American capitalism. It not
farce, nor does it in any way de-
serve the heavy, farcical treat-
ment which it received at the
hands of the Barter actors. The
humor of the dialogue is quiet
fand “interior.”’ If the lines. are
delivered in a rowdy, “exterior”
manner, this humor is. either
grotesquely exaggerated or  de-
stroyed altogether; characteriza-
| tion becomes caricature, and the
| soft harmony of the seript is vio-
lated. These players perhaps feel
| that subtlety is wasted on rural
audiences. If so, they should have
chosen a seript devoid of subtlety,
such as “Aaron Slick from Pun’-
kin Crick.”

The performance of the title
role by Jeanette Randall was,
however, a happy exception. She
played Sabrina as, to our mind,
the role should have been played
—with simple warmth and quiet,

comedy

is

a

(Continued On Page Four)
