PAGE FOUR
REPORT ON RETREAT

Y Cabinet Discusses

Classical Club Hears
Lecture by Dr. Bealy

The Classical Club held its De-
cember meeting on Monday eve-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

8 MORE ANNOUNCED

Graduate Fellowships For

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1956

{MEDICAL SPECIALTY AREA

AED Hears Talk by Reece

On Field of Pathology

“Pathology As A Specialty” was the topic of a lecture

Advanced Study Offered

ning, at 7:15 in the Green Room

‘Compulsory’ Religion

Members of the Y cabinet recently received a report:

summing up the activities of the Y Retreat last month.

This report was headed “Reflec- , Meetings,
tions from the Retreat—Encount-|the Y program. and “compulsory’

more student activity in

,

°

er!” Several important topics were | religion.

discussed at the annual retreat,

A special evaluation committee.

among them being Hall Prayer | has been set up to discuss whether

Program Announced
For Training Abroad

American students of engineer-
ing, science. architecture, agricul-
ture and com
foreign on-the-job training during

the 1957 summer, according to an|

announcement made by the U. S.
Committee for LAESTE, the Inter-

national Association for the Ex-|

change of Students for Technical
Experience.

During the 1957 summer, Ameri-
ean engineering students will work
abroad and American industry will
accept foreign engineering students
for training under IAESTE’s
unique program. Under this pro-
gram college students in engineer-
ing and other technical fields are

or not the Hall Prayer Meetings:

are fulfilling their basic purpose.
This committee is composed of
various members of the student

body, some of whom frequently at-.

tend these Meetings, and some who
seldom attend.
This committee will submit to

merce may apply for | the full Y Cabinet a complete re-)

| port on its findings later this year.
The retreat dealt at length with
-the problem of how to get more
‘people, both faculty and students.
incorporated into the program of
the YMCA. Renewed emphasis was
placed on the activity chart in the
Y office.

Discussion then centered on the
perennial problem of “compulsory
religion.” The administration's po-
sition was stated. “The required re-
{ligious program of the school con-
fronts the students with the great
ideas and ideals and information

1
i)

sent abroad for on-the-job training just as the year of required math
during their summer vacations for presents to the students symbolic
a minimum period of eight weeks. logic although they often com-

In 1956, 58 U. S. students trained plain.”

in 13 European countries and 75) ;

forei dent loyed in

oreign students were employed | Valunteer Committee
s U]
Aids Parents’ Fund

45 U. S. industries. In 1955. 20
As an endorsement of the Davi

.

Americans received foreign train-

ing assignments and 39 foreign en-

gineering students came here. |
rhe, Inst heh street, New)S2" College educational program.
York 21, New York, is coordinating ten fathers of Davidson students
° tee ti ‘. the LAESTE and recent alumni met December 4
vocram Maynard M. Boring. Man. ''° organize a volunteer corns.
power Consultant at General Elec. | headed by Julian J. x ark of C Wet ;
tric, past President, American So- otte, to secure “end-ol-y ear gilts
‘ : from Davidson parents for the 1956

ciety for Engineering Education, S| ba on ;
4 rents’ Fund of Davidson College.
Chairman of the U. S. IAESTE According to Mr. Clark. contri-

of the College Union. Dr. Ernest
Beaty spoke to the group concern-
ing ancient Near Eastern festivals,
| parts of which are incorporated
into our present Christmas cele-
, bration.
He showed how the Christian
: Church had “borrowed pagan cele-
brations and baptized them.” Com:
ponents of our present Christmas
festivities were to be found in the
Saturnalia of the Roman Empire,
certain cult rites of Persian Mith-
‘raism, and in the Jewish Festival
of Lights. These last two occasions
were also celebrated on December
Grier Davis moderated a panel
discussion concerning the present
AB requirements as they related
to the inclusion of a classical
language. Members of the panel
were Jock Reeder, Laurens Walker.
‘Harry Paschall. and Phil Kukura.
| Dr. Labban announced that the
Davidson chapter of the national
honorary classical: fraternity, Eta
Sigma Phi, would be reactivated
early in the second semester. The
meeting closed with refreshments.

Chariered Bus Goes
To Raleigh Exhibit

An opportunity for faculty and,

students to visit the 350th Anniver-
sary Rembrandt Exhibition at the
North Carolina Museum of Art in
Raleigh tomorrow, December 15th.

g. [has been made available by .the,

Guild of Charlotte Artists, aecord-
ing to Douglas Houchens, professor
of fine arts.

The chartered bus for the all-
day trip will leave Charlotte at 8
o'clock tomorrow morning and is
expected to return late in the af-
ternoon. The fare is only $3 for

‘these apartments from graduate

Dr. George L. Abernethy, chair-
man of the graduate scholarship
committee, announced recently ad-

ditional fellowships for further)the waiver of fees.

study.

The Graduate Record Examina-|are available to married men as
tion will be given at Davidson on|Heads of Residence in the men’s
January 19, 1957. Completed ap- dormitories. The compensation for’
, these appointments consist of a

plications for this Examination
must reach the Educational Test-
ing Service in Princeton, New Jer-
sey, before January 4, 1957.
Seniors who expect to attend
Graduate School are urged to con-
sult the catalogue of the school
which they wish to enter to see

whether the Graduate Record Ex. | University, Athens, Ohio.

amination is required for admis-
sion. Applications and additional

information may be secured from qualified seniors twenty-five Uni-

Professor Abernethy.

ALABAMA GRAD SCHOOL

The University of Alabama Grad.
uate School is offering twenty
University scholarships to _ first-
year graduate students of excep-
tional ability.

These scholarships are  non-
service and carry a_ stipend of
$750 and free non-resident tuition.
A large number of assistantships
with stipends canging from $1,200
to $1,650 are also available.

Campus apartments, renting
from $27.00 to, $35.00 per month

i man and wife, $500 for two semes-
item and waiver of most fees.

given by Dr. John C. Reece, Pathologist of Grace Hospital in
Morganton, at the Wednesday night meeting of Alpha Epsilon
Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity.

Dr. Reece described pathology as| pathologist plays a major role in
a specialty that has grown tremen- the treatment of patients. The re-
dously in importance with the ad- sults may suggest to him changes
vent of modern medicine. The,in treatment which are passed
complexity of modern clinical pro-| aiong to the clinician who is actual-
cedures in the hosyital and the ly treating the patient.
necessity for interpretation of these Surgical pathology is the other
procedures vy a highly trained major division of this specialty.
specialist has raised pathology to a! Here. the “chins from the surgeon’s
paramount position in the medical’ table” fall to the patnulogist for
world. evaluation. Many times the uiti-

The field of patholog today ia-| mate decision regarding benign
volves two major divisiuns. Clini-' and cancerous tumors lies in the
cal pathology, the first of these,' evaluation given a surgical speci-
is concerned with the examination men by the pathologist. As a sub-
of specimens by bacteriological, division of this field, the patholo-
| serological, and chemical methods. gist is also responsible for per-
Dr. Reece stressed the fact that in forming autopsies which are vital
the interpretation of these tests the | in many respects.

Personnel. Appointeées live in uni- be received before February 15,
versity housing and pay room and | 1957. Further information may be
board. Their stipend is $1600 plus. had from the Dean of the Graduate
School, Emory University, Emory
Several graduate appointments | University, Georgia.
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

i+ Princeton University announces
the opening of the annual compe-
; .tition for twelve Princeton Nation-'
furnished apartment, board for the | | Fellowships, each with a normal
value of $2150, for entering grac-,
uate students in the Humanities
and Social Sciences. Unsuccessful
candidates will be considered for
all other Princeton awards. Com-
pleted applications are due by
March 1, 1957. Interested students
should write to the Dean of the
Graduate School, Princeton Uni-
versity, Princeton, New Jersey.

DUKE UNIVERSITY

Duke University is offering more
than 150 appointments in the Grad-
uate School to qualified applicants.
Fellowships, scholarships, assis-'
tantships, research fellowships and’
lresearch associateships are avail-
able. They carry stipends ranging
from $400 to $2200. Applications
must be completed before March 1,

March 1, 1957 is the closing date
‘for all applications. For application
iblanks interested seniors should

write to the Graduate College, Ohio

EMORY UNIVERSITY
Emory University is offering to

versity Fellowships of $1750 for
the first year of graduate study. In
addition, a large number of assis-
tantships and teaching fellowships
carrying stipends from $800 to $2,-
400 are available. Completed ap-
plications for appointments must

Spanish Groups Hold

by Chester Field

IT'S FOR REAL!

Christmas Program

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish
Club held their December meetings
Wednesday night in the College

with utilities, are available to mar-; Union Ballroom. The program con-

ried students. Applications for
students who hold scholarships,
fellowships or assistantships will,
whenever possible, be given first
consideration.

All applications for awards must
be completed before March 1,

1957.

OHIO UNIVERSITY

The Graduate College at Ohio
University (Athens, Ohio) is offer-

sisted of various readings and
songs centered about the Christ-
mas season.

Bill Pfefferkorn read a Spanish
version of Dickens’ “Christmas
Caro],” which was followed by the
singing of carols in Spanish.
“Merry Christmas, Amigos” was
read by Hugo Misle. The program
ended with the breaking of the
_traditional Spanish pinata.

Members recently initiated into
‘the Spanish Club are: Ned Austell,

transportation round trip. including | ing a large number of graduate ap-| Joe Bell, A. H. Bracey, W. L. Hef:

1957.

Further information may be had
from the Dean of the Graduate
School at Duke University. .The
Duke University Commonwealth-
Studies Center will supplement
University fellowships and scholar-
ships with special grants, ranging
from $1500 to $2300, for a selected
number of applicants. For infor-
mation regarding the conditions
for these grants, interested stu-
dents should write the Secretary,
Duke University Commonwealth-
Studies Center, Durham. N. C.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

The General Electric Education-
al and Charitable Fund is again of-
fering a total. of 34 Fellowships in

SANTA CLAUS ANALYZED

Why oh why does Santa go,
“Hv-Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho!”
Is it just because he’s jolly?
I believe he’s off his trolley.
... Gifts for everyone on earth
Br ed hysteria—not mirth
If you had his job to do
Bet you'd shake like jelly too!

morat: End your gift problems before they start. Give
Chesterfield in tho carton that glows for real—to all

Committee.

“. COLLEGE NOMINATE

U. S. colleges have been asked
to nominate qualified American
Students who. wish practical train-

ing abroad. Candidates must be en-,

dorsed by the officials of their

own schools. In addition, each ap-
plicant must have completed his
third year of engineering or scien-

tific study, must have had practical

experience in this country, and
must be able to pay for his inter-
national travel. Applicants may in-
dicate their choice of country from
among the IAESTE members as

In a communication to be mailed

¢ shortly to all parents of present
students and recent graduates, the
|

|

well as their particular field o
specialization.

The deadline for receipt of ap-
plications is December 28, 1956.
Each American applicant will be
asked. to pay a $25 application fee,
$20 of which will be returned if
no suitable placement can be made.
Candidates withdrawing before
January 15. 1957, will have $15 re-
funded to them.

The 58 American students who
participated in IAESTE’s program

last summer went to 13 European’
countries. Austria received 5; Bel-.

gium, 1; Denmark, 3; Finland, 1;
France, 5: .Germany, 10; Great
Britain, 8; Italy, 3; the
lands, 5; Norway, 1: Spain,
Sweden, 9; and Switzerland, 6.

Other countries participating in
the IAESTE program are: Canada,
Iceland, India, Israel, Portugal,
Turkey and Yugoslavia.

FIELDS OFFERED

The American students were in
the following fields: mechanical
engineering, 12; chemical engineer-
ing, 9; electrical engineering, 4;
commerce, 5: civil engineering, 4:
architectural engineering. 3: phy-
sics, 3; architecture, 3; liberal arts,
2: industrial engineering, 2; chem-
istry, 2; air transportation, 1;
metallurgical engineering, 2; zo-
ology, 1; geological engineering, 1;
aeronautical engineering, 1.

The 58 students represented 24
American colleges. Institutions
sending the targest numbers were
Purdue University, Princeton Uni-
versity, University of Rochester,
Cornell University as well as the
Universities of Michigan and Pitts:
burgh. Among the other colleges
represented were Mount Holyoke
and Sarah Lawrence, Yale Univer-
rity, and the Universities of Louis-
ville and Texas.

IAESTE was organized in 1048
by universities and industries of
nine countries in Western Europe.
Its aims are to train advanced stu-
dents of science and technology in
the theories and techniques of
other nations, and to build a foun-
dation for international vunder-
standing and good will among these
potential leaders of science and
industry. IAESTE today has 22
member countries, including the
U.S.A. and Canada.

1;

Nether-

butions from parents will be com-
bined with gifts from alumni.
corporations. foundations, and
friends in an effort to reach the
$125,000. goal which has been set
for the annual giving program.

| Over $80,000 of this amount has
}been received to date. and an ad-

December 31 when the fund year
closes, according to President John
R. Cunningham's report to the
group at their luncheon meeting
the Charlotte

last week at

‘City Club.

leommittee states that “Davidson
needs the full $125,000 from par-
ents, alumni, and friends to balance
and strengthen its operating budget
for faculty salaries, student schol-
arships, and other vital areas of
the college program. Each gift—
large or small—from a “Davidson
family” stimulates additional sup-
port for the college from corpora-
tions and foundations.”

Parent members of the commit-
tee who represent recent grad-
uates are H. F. Cobb and Dr. E.
K. McLean. J. Earl Thompson and
Ellison A. Smyth represent the
parents of present Seniors and
tjuniors at the college and C. P.
Johnston and Dr. Lawrence I. Stell
are heading up the effort on be-
half of the sophomore class par-
ents. Leaders in the program whose
sons are now freshmen at the col-
lege are Dr. J. M. Alexander, S. S.
Farabow, and O. P. Wearn.

'Marotte Addresses

ditional $45.000 must be raised :

admission to-the museum.
Those wishing to go should con-

diately for information as to the
exact point of departure. Reserva-
tions may be made by sending the
$3 fee to him at the Pictorial En-
graving Company, 2082

telephone is ED 3-3373.

This is a representative selection
of the works of the greatest Dutch
masters. Mr. Whitsett will conduct
a guided tour of the museum for

ments on Rembrandt’s works.

It is expected that a good num-
ber of students from Queens will
make the trip.

College Union Seeks
Collections to Display

The Display Committee of the
College Union requests that all stu-
dents having collections which
they would be willing to display in
the Union to contact the Union
Desk.

Inadequate Housing

(Continued from Page One)
the irregular shaped room is one
particular eye-catching object. It
is a clam shell from the South
Pacific which weighs in the neigh-
borhood of 300 pounds.

While the museum is not at pres-
ent open to the scrutiny of the
general public, there is hope for
improvement in the future. Dr.
Tom Daggy. professor of biology,

, graduate students.
tact Mr. Kenneth Whitsett imme-,tantships are available in most de-;Mauze, A. W. McKeithen,
; partments.

West |Uate assistants are
Fourth Street in Charlotte. The|single men to assist the Dean of Lash Zemp.

those who wish authoritative com-

pointments to qualified beginning
Graduate assis-

They carry $1600 as a stipend
!and provide for the waiver of most
fees. Special appointments as grad-
available to

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA.

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

Scabbard and Blade expressed the following  senti-
‘Dr. Paul Marrotte of the History; ments. “The cases are not’ ade-
department spoke on the Hun-|quately lighted at present, ‘and
garian situation at the Tuesday|there are not adequate display or-
night meeting of Scabbard andj gans for protection from dust and
Blade. An’ informal discussion | observers.
period followed his talk. “We hope in the near future to
The possibilities of entering] get enough time and money to put
Scabbard and Blade’s national rifle] the collection in good shape. Our
meet were discussed during the; ultimate desire is to make it acces-
businéss session. sible for observation.”

THE PERFECT GIFT

FOR PARENTS — GIRLS — FRIENDS

The Davidson College Male Chorus

tn A Recorded Program of Choral Music—a 10”, 33 1/3,
SPRECTROFONIC, High Fidelity Record Custom

Pressed by R.C.A. Victor

ONLY $3.95

ON SALE NOW AT THE STUDENT STORE

Mail Orders Accepted—Address request to Department of Music,
Davidson College, P. O. Box 356, Davidson, N. C.

(Add 40c Per Record For Mailing Charges)

Must be something to it.

"Coke" is o registered trode-mask,

That's where the pause that
refreshes with ice-cold Coke began.
Now it's enjoyed fifty million times a day.

ice-cold Coca-Cola and see... right now.

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORO

the Physical Sciences, Engineer-
ing, Industrial Arts, Arts and
Sciences, Law and Business. The
stipends are $1750 for a single man,
$2100 for a married man without
dependent children, and $2500 for
a married man with children. Com-
pleted applications are due Jan-
uary 15, 1957. Interested seniors
should see Professor G. L. Aber-
nethy at once.

because hunger hurts!

the happy folk who smoke for real! Buy Jots—to
do lots for your
Christmas list.

Smoke for real eee
smoke Chesterfield!

960 for every philosophical verse

for publication,
Chesterfield. P.O b.« 21,
New York 46, N.Y.

ner, Bill Hellier, Woody Hunt,
jDave Lyon, J. P, Lund, Madison

Larry
Meyer, Hugo Misle, Jim Owens, Ed
Pantigoso, J. O. Patterson, J. M.
i Pleasants, Newt Quantz, John Ren-
fro, Pete Sterling, Ralph Triplette,
Bruce Wilder, E. C. Wilson, and

Te

© Liggsit & Myert Tobsee Co.

Charlotte, N.C,

PHOTO SY CAVIO SEYMOUR

because this little boy’s not inter-
ested in catcher's mitts or chem-
istry sets... all he asks is enough
to eat!

DRINA

And there is. Have an

.
Send ‘1 to

CARE FOOD CRUSADE
NEW YORK 16, NEW YORK
or to your local CARE office

because a single dollar to CARE
will send his family 22 Ibs. of
food in your name!

because your dollar will help

feed a family overseas for a month!
©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

