Then the mighty chieftein, Slick Jobn,
Sent the word that this bld building
(Faithful still and loved by "toot toot”)
Marred the planning of the campus--
Blocked the view from mighty Chambers
Of the new-built dormitory--

(Likewise blocked #@6Agad the view of
Chambersfroa the new-built dormitory).
Then did Cumninghem, the chieftain,
Summon up the board of trustees
Sumnoned them end told the story

Of the aging dormitory--

Pointed to his new creetion

Said 'to hell with this old building‘
Let men see our new creation

Let 014 faithful John called "toot toot!
Have a floor in this new building.

So they called the grim destroyers
Called them with their swinging engine
Bid them strike the dormitory

Strike it down and plow it under

Tear from it all that is useful

Tear from it a lso old "toot toot".

Now the act is accomplished

Gone from us the aging structure

Gone to where good buildings go to

Not to where great Slick John said to!
Thus the pessing of the building;

Soon the spot will all be gone tooo
And no more will it be thought of--
Save by one-- the faithful "toot toot".

FURTHER EXCITING DISCOVERIES A MONG THE
DEAD!TIRED SCROLLS

EXODUS

Then the most high one spake unto the
children of Davidwenn, saying;

Get thee hence out of this place of thy abode,
and with thee take thy books ond thy pencils.
Yee, also take all thnt which thou dost cell
thy own and take with thee thy jonitors.

For the place before thy dwelling has become
as o desert land, where strange men(who ere
not of my people) do make exceedingly gree t
disturbance, and the way is covered with the
dust of their creation, and the air is filled
with their profenity.

For I have caused this plece to be cleared,
and for the deeuty of the campus have I
struck down the former dwelling.

Therefore get thee hence, ere Tuesday
falleth, to that land where. did dwell the
Phillistines.

For I have returned it into thy hends snd
have caused it to be purified so that the
air doth amell as sweet perfume.

And if thgu doeth this thing, it will be
easier for thee, for it is as silent as

the still weters.

When the children heard these words, a
great cry rose up through all the lend,

for great was the inertia of then.

But those who sit in the place of the mighty
did prevail and ere Tuesday had come to
pass, there was a great migration, and all
did go and did take their books andtheir
pencils. And did take sll their possessions,
and truly did their janitors go with them.
And they found that the new dwelling hed
indeed been given over into their hands,

and the air did smell with some strange odor.
A nd the water did run warmly and a new
path for strangers had opened beside them
so that there was noise, ond dust of their
creation covered the way, and the air was
filled with their profanity.

But it was good, for so ordained they who
sit in the seat of the wise.

--By the Beard of the Profit
