THE DAV

IDSONIAN

Generals

Squad
1 by
of W&L

A much-improved Washington
and Lee soccer team crammed all
of its scoring into one period last
Saturday at Lexington to defeat
Davidson for the second time in

Soccer
Scored

When Professor Bailey complimented Coach Heath|
Whittle in the speech which preceeded ODK’s tapping, he |
brought to light a point that has been almost overlooked by)
recent generations of students.

Interfratérnity athletics are so much a part of the
normal life of boys on campus, we accept them as a fact
and pay no attention to how or why they came into

AROUND THE TRACK

However, Davidson's athletic program has not always
been what it is today. Before 1928 intramurals were practical-
ly non-existent. If a boy couldn’t go out for a varsity sport
he was limited in exercise primarily to running around the
track, playing tennis on one of the few courts or whacking at
a golf ball.

In '28 Captain Norton Prichett came to the college as
athletic director, instigated an intramural program, and two
years later asked a graduating senior to join the coaching
staff.

That senior, who captained the 1930 track team, was

part—on last count, approximately 80 per cent.

SQUADS, SQUADS

Originally the sports were few and the teams were limited.
The four classes provided the basic competitive units but’
dormitories occassionally challenged each other. As the fra-
ternities grew in importance and size during the late 1930's,
they also began sponsoring squads. Because of the duplication
of a single player on several teams, the fraternities plus a
group of independents became the sole competitors starting
in 1946.

The sports were primarily the same we have today—
volleyball, track, basketball, etc.—but over the years a
wide array have been tried. Of particular early im-
portance was gymnastics, and others included were box- _
ing, soccer, golf, horse-shoe pitching, badminton and
bowling.

AND NOW |

Under the current program the sports are selected at the

of the year by the athletic managers from the fraterni- |

ties and the Campus Club. The primary change in recent |
times was the switch from football to flickerball six years ago. |
Intramural competition in the former sport was producing |
more injuries than varsity football because the contestants |

wore little protection. Swimming has been added since the con- |
struction of Johnston Gym.

two weeks.

Playing in a misty rain before
an enthusiastic Parent's Day
crowd, the General offense showed
new-found skill as they pressed the
Wildeat defenders throughout the
contest.

Held scoreless throughout the
first quarter, the W and L foot-
slingers found the range in the
opening minutes the second
quarter.

After the Generals scored
the first goal in the opening
seconds of the period, the
Wildeat offense took posses-
ion of the ball and a few
seconds later, right wing
George Sutcliffe drilled home
the first Davidson score of
the season.

W and L roared back to score

of

Hank Daniel.

defense, with Spider quarterback Gagliano (19) watching, to score the game’s only touchdown
and give Davidson the 7-0 victory. The action in last Saturday's contest on Richardson field provided
the Red and Black with their fifth win of the season against one defeat and one tie—Photo by

ae

McRee sweeps through Richmond’s

Swimmers Preparing

three times in the next four min-
utes and once more just before
the half.

The second half developed into
a see-saw affair, with each team For Tough Schedule
being foiled in all attempts to
score. By JIM HAMILTON

The Davidson College swimming
team opened practice for the com-
ing season Monday, October 21,
in the college pool.

Tom Rivers is acting coach of
|the squad until the end of foot-
| ball season when Coach Thompson
| Will take over
| Returning members from last
year’s team are Basil Sharp—div-
er, John Winfry — who shares in
the school’s 400-yard free style re-
lay record, Jerry Clark who
holds the school record in the 200
yard free style, Bill Carroll
record holder in individual med-|
ley and co-holder of the 400 yard |
free style relay, John Edwards
|record holder in 220 yard breast- |
stroke and member of the record |
300 yard medley team, Fritz Rus- |
|sell and Tom Rivers record |
holder in 50 yard and 100 yard
free style and member of record
400 yard free style relay team.

Action on Tuesday Newcomers out for the team in-
jelude Art Miller, Bob Jones, Don

Interfraternity wrestling starts Dubblin, Dave Robinson, Harry
next Tuesday, November 13, with Landis, Larry Stell, Woody Hunt,
weigh-ins beginning at 8:30 in the! Bill Hellier and Craig Ray.
morning and continuing until 4:00 It is the opinion of acting
that afternoon. The actual bouts; coach Rivers that this year’s
begin the same day after draw-|  sehedule is much tougher than
ings have been posted. | last year’s.

Drawings will be made immedi-| The Catfish open their schedule
ately after 4:00, Tuesday, and will| against Catholic University, De-
be posted as soon as possible on! cember 8, at Davidson. The rest
the bulletin board at the south of the schedule is: VMI, December
end of the gym floor. | 10, at home; East Carolina, Decem-

The weight class with the most) ber 15, home; Citadel, January 12,
entrees will hold its bouts first.) home; University of Georgia, Feb-
The winners in any weight class | ruary 8, away; Emory, February
that has more than eight entrees | 9, away; Washington and Lee, Feb-
will wrestle a second bout on Tues-| ruary 15, home; VPI, February 23,
day, night. All bouts will be of|home; and the Southern Confer-

The Davidson offense dis-
played an attack which was
greatly improved over all
previous efforts. Sutcliffe, Ed
Irvin, Ross Smyth, and Gor-
den Neville initiated many
fine drives, which pressed the
Washington and Lee defenders
throughout the contest.
Forwards Belden Butterworth

and Billy Boyles were outstanding
for the Generals.

Tomorrow afternoon 2:30 on
Richardson Field, the Wildeats
meet the Warren Wilson College
booters, a team which boasts play-
ers from fifteen different coun-
tries, The game will be the last
home encounter for the Davidson
team this season.

at

five minute duration. ence meet on February 28.

|
|

Past Richmond 25-33 |

By OYVIND NORSTROM |

Angus McBryde, who this fall converted. from football to
cross-country, led the Davidson harriers to a 25-33 victory |
over Richmond Saturday on the local course. The sensational

Durham sophomore became the first individual winner for
|
!

Coach Whittle’s men in the last two years

McBryde's victory
seconds margin

was by a 10}
ae | Angus
Cochran—-a}
new Richmond man--with ex:-star a
Warren Chukinas in third place.| ®, 28:07.5; (4) Henry Brown, 23;-|
Henry Brown and Al Elder took | 304; (5) Al Elder, 23:49; (7) Gra-\
the next places, and three David-| ham George, 24:18; (8) Jim’ Alex
son Freshmen Graham George, | ander, 24:46; (9) Milton Gee, 24:46; ;
Jim Alexander, and Milton Gee —/|(11) Steve Huntley, 25:18; (15) Ray }

Cochran,

Mc Bryde

22:52.5;

22:42; (2

over
(3). Chukina

all got in ahead of Richmond's Antley, 25:55; (19) Allen 27:02. |
fourth man. Good depth thus :
proved decisive in the only race

to be seen on campus this year

Next on the schedule for the
cross-country team is the State
Meet at Raleigh. The squad’s
regular season record stands

Turn Guns On

Cat Harriers Speed

Wildcat of Week

By BOBBY PAGE

Cat Defense Thwarts
Spiders in 7-0 Victory

By LARRY MEYER

Though beaten in rushing yard-
age 216-122, the 'Cats more than
made up for the lack by their
indomitable refusal to let Rich-
mond score. Most of the last half
was played deep in Davidson terri-
tory. Three times the Spiders pen-
etrated within the 5 yard line,
only to see the gallant defense
stiffen. The last stand, which prov-
ed to be the gamesaver, saw tackle
Tom Lee and end Bill Gramley
bring Richmond fullback Zupipich
to earth four inches short of the
goal.

Davidson's big break came after
an exchange of punts and a hold-
ing penalty had put Richmond on
their own 4, from where they

TWO OUT punted out. Don Comer returned
Davidson, unlike last year, will|'® the 27 to set the stage. Dick
be at near full strength, their | Belton, faking masterfully, pitched
lineup marred only by the loss|# Strike to George Hart for a
first down on the 5. Don McRee
cracked beautifully over left guard
for the seore. After the conver-
sion by Dave Fagg, the 'Cats led
7-0 with 4:03 remaining to play.

Spurred by the prospect of their
best season since 1926, the ‘Cats
take on Wofford tomorrow at
Snyder Field in Spartanburg,
South Carolina. Game time is 8:00
p.m.

Psychologically, Davidson goes
into the fray better prepared. Wof-
ford was the unhappy victim of
an upset by Catawba last week,
while Davidson won a 7-4 thriller
over Richmond.

There is no love lost between
the two squads — Wofford having
contributed to Davidson's big col-
lapse last year. The 'Cats will be
going all out to erase the tinge
of last year’s 21-0 chewing by the
Terriers.

f seatback Don Comer. Comer's
leg was fractured in the last con-
test. Also on the shelf is Frank
Anderson, a promising Freshman
center.

This twentieth renewal of the
Davidson—Wofford rivalry prom-
to be a good deal closer than
lust: year’s debacle, when the big
Wofford backs ran roughshod
through the Wildeat line for more
than 400 yards. The tremendous
showing made last week by the
‘Cat forward wall augurs trouble
for unwary Terriers.

HOPES HIGH

The rampaging ‘Cats brought
their season record a notch closer
to the hoped goal of 7 wins, It

ises

Davidson's young rifle team was
edged by Furman and was victo-
rious over Wofford in a triangular
match held on the local range Fri-
day, November 2.

Taking Wofford by a consider-

pt ign ote able margin, the squad lost to
Plaving probably. their best|Urmae 1916-1823. In a mateh
aying probably ere‘ |where some thirteen hundred

game of the year, especially on de-
fense, the Red and Black denied
the efforts of the spirited Spiders.

points are scored, the margin of
eight points was extremely close.
“They're still inexperienced, but
they'll come along,”’ ventured Cap-
tain Cavano, the team’s coach, ‘nod-
ding in the direction of the crack-
ing rifles four days afterwards.
Evidently, all that the- team
needs is a little more depth be-
cause the two high men for the

eas nom nes in s ner sridi i *
at 3-2. _ An often heard phrase - . —_— ig conversation sii: deat. Game en ey a
:; “The backs always get all ¢ > credit. . pj .

‘Whe Raleigh: contest: wilt give). TH Sacks siways get ah: ce Sie tam son team: Pickard (280) and Alex
McBryde a crack at the star-stuffed| There are very few people who} ander (274). In all, the team is
UNC and State squads, led by} Will; after contemplation, deny the comprised of some fifteen or

Jim Beatty, and will be the final} truth of the statement. But a foot-

tune-up before the Southern Con ball fan of long standing might
ference Championship in Lexing-|@4¢ this popular proverb: “¢ redit
ton, Va. where credit is due.”

Pete Ashcraft, team captain and| This week, halfback Don MeRee
outstanding harrier is out for the) 's selected as. Wildeat Of The
season with an injury. The loss} Week, not because he is a back,
will weaken the team’s chances nor. because he played his best
in the concluding meets of the all-round game against Richmond
present campaign. Only William | last week. But. such an honor has
& Mary and VPI appear to have |been possible every week of the
decisively greater strength than | season and this is. but an at

ltempt to secure some of the credit
jdue to a typical Davidson Wildeat
|who has been a tremendous credit

the Wildcats.
Saturday results:

is a 15-year Camel smoker. He says:
“Cigarettes were pretty much alike to
me till | started smoking

real smoking, there’s nothing like Camels.”

RB. J. Reynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

Discover the difference between “just smoking” and Camels!

«Camel

You'll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more
deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend

of quality tobaccos brings you smooth smoking..
You're sure to enjoy Camels, the most

popular cigarette today. They've really got it!

to his school
VICIOUS DEFENSIVELY
After scoring the game winning
| touchdown late in the action last

| Saturday, MeRee rose to his de
fensive pinnacle and stopped Bob
i+ J by Ames from. seoring the tying
tally in a last chanee effort, cul
} lminating a 40 yard run. On the |
next two plays, breaking in from
his defensive halfback post, Me-|

Ree threw the Spider offense for|
ireeling losses which thwarted their
i bid for paydirt. and a. possible
; second consecutive. tie for the;

Cats

Ever since September 21, MeRee
has maintained a rushing average
lof better than five yards a shot
and a punting average of over 37
lyards a try. Two weeks ago, he
jreeled off what was probably the
most thrilling Black and Red feat
|of the year, a 98 yard kickoff re
jturn. Of course, he had tremen
|dous blocking—all the way to the
| V.M.I. 45, but in this article
fare talking about MeRee and will
have to point out that many fans
jare still wondering, as are several
| Keydets, how he got past those
| remaining four white jerseys,
SAYS DOLE

No one could know better how
[to appreciate a job well done than
| Coach Bill Dole, who says: “In
|four years of football, MeRee has
|never offered an alibi or rational-
ized by making an excuse for him-
self, but rather has striven to do
the job. This attitude not only in
| athletics, but in his academic
work also, is reflected in the splen-
|did record he has acheived at Da-
| vidson.””

Therefore, in an effort to re-
| fleet the verified sentiments of
many Davidson football fans and
|) Students, Don MeRea is unani+

we}

twenty members; however, only
six of these fired Friday. Only the
scores of the top five men were
used in the final scoring.

The triangular meet was a part
of the activities of the Western
Carolina Rifle Conference. Wof-
ford, Furman, P.C., and Davidson
are the four members comprising
the conference. Unlike the South-
ern Conference, it. is open only
to members of the R.O.T.C. de-
partments.
} Later in the season, the team
will participate in the North Ca-
jrolina Invitational meet and the
}Southern Conference meets. In ad-
dition to these, the team fires
jonce a week and exchanges its
scores with other schools. In the
“postal matches” they have won
five and lost three.

McREE CREDITED

Bought an Overcoat Yet... ?

We have several good patterns in Allegator
tweeds at only—

34.75

— ALSO —

RAINCOATS

in Cotton Poplin at
15.95
Dacron-Cotten Poplin at

25.00
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

mously named Wildeat Of The |
Week.

