FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1956

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Slants
Spo

By JOHN JOHNSON

36 HOLES TODAY

The Wildcat golf team inters the conference competi-
tion with their best chance in several years of finishing in
the high ranks. The squad supported by unusual help from
freshmen has made a surprise showing this year.

In 11 matches Dr. Scott's linkmen have won 7. Their
only losses have been to NC State, whom they had previously
beaten, Furman, and the Citadel, whom they lost to by only
three points.

Furman particularly will make it tough for the Red and
Black in the tournament. Since the Cats have not played
against any of the teams in the northern part of the confer-
ence it is difficult to anticipate the latter’s strength but
several undoubtedly have good teams.

NOT A STANDOUT

The squad has no outstanding individual performers
but. rather a large range of men who shoot consistently good
golf in the mid 70’s. In regular matches teams are required
to enter at least six men but the healthy depth has permitted
the Cats to compete with as many as nine. Due to the rotation
system used, at least eight men will letter, an unusually high
number for a six man sport.

The golf team works under a double handicap; they have
no spectator support nor do they have a place to practice.
All “home” matches are played either at the Charlotte
Country Club or Myers Park, both too far for student on-
lookers to travel. The greatest hinderence, however, is the
difficulty of practicing. The place designated for the boys
to work on strokes is the lower drill field, but with two soft-
ball games being played on the same ground it is discouraging
to any attempt to work out.

The best place to practice is 20 miles away in Char-
lotte but such a trip requires a full afternoon. Most boys
cannot spare the time so workouts generally amount to oc-
casional trip to Mooresville’s course and the rest of the
golf is picked up in actual competition, about one or two
meets a week.

WHAT ABOUT ITT

The Davidson campus has land allotted for a golf course
but is rendered useless by a lack of greens. Anyone who has
ever noticed the number of golf bags in the dorms or who
has seen the number of boys chipping balls on the lawn
between West and Duke dorms on a sunny day, realizes
that there is enough interest in the sport to make even a short
course worth the investment. Dr. Scott is of the opinion that
if three greens could be installed in one year the use that they
would receive would warrant future gradual expansion.

A three hole course would greatly facilitate the
practicing of the golf team, but its primary purpose would
be for the enjoyment of all students.

If students reveal sufficient concern, such a plan could
become a reality.

JUST RECEIVED
STRIPED BATISTE SHIRTS

Button-down Collar, Box Pleat
The Very Thing For Summer

$5.50
White and Blue—4.95
Wilson-Wright's Inc.

“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

\three come from the freshman

With the final home
Wildcats will take the
against V.P.1. at Blacksburg to-|
morrow in another Southern Con-|
ference contest. The cats were |
scheduled to meet the tough Gob-|
bler outfit this afternoon in the
first half of the two-day double-|
header, and Coach Chuck Clements |
announced yesterday that his top
lefthanders, Allen Moore = and
Dave Page, would go to the mound |
against the V.P.I. club. )

Furman’s Purple Hurricane will
play host to the Red and Black
next Tuesday, and it will mark
the close of the 1956 Davidson

schedule. The contest was origi-
nally scheduled as Davidson's
home game, but a _ mid-season

change has slated the battle for
Greenvill®.

Two conference opponents vVl-
sited the Wildeat diamond during |
the past week, and Davidson split
two doubleheaders. Against. The
Citadel’ last Friday and Saturday, |
the Cats lost the first game, but
they came back to grab the second
contest. On Tuesday, William and
Mary was the foe, and the Indians
managed to take a close second
game after Davidson had won a
slugging duel in the first, 10-7.

Koonce, Elder Spark
Wildcat Cindermen
To Sixth Win Of Year

By OYVIND NORSTROM

Headed by team captain Phil
Koonce and the year’s outstand
ing freshman star Al Elder, the
Wildeat track team last Friday
romped to its 6th victory of the
season. Washington & Lee was
soundly defeated on their home
track in Lexington, by the score
87 2-3—43 1-3.

Koonce as usual took care of
the sprints and the broad jump
fof Coach Whittle’s troops, and
was this time excellently backed
by the new frosh hopeful, Mel
Armstrong, who took second place
in all three events. Koonce also
ran the first leg on Davidson's
winning mile relay team. Al Elder
took a double by winning both
the 440 and the 880 yds; he tied
for second in the broad jump,
and for a change watched the re
lay from the stands. Two of the
usual standouts, Pete Ashcraft
and Ross Mallory, did not com-
pete this time but will be back in
this week’s contest with N. C
State at Raleigh.

The Marines of Camp LeJeune.
who originally, were supposed to
take part in that meet, have had
to . withdraw. The contest—the
final windup before the Confer
ence meet—will therefore be a
regular dual meet, where middle
distance -champ. Asheraft may
have to break his own records to
keep his unbroken winning streak
intact. The team victory should
normally be rather safe for the
Davidson squad.

Twenty-nine men have to this
time made the team’s scoring list.
which is headed by captain Koonce
and weight man Bill Gramley. The
top ten after the W&L meet are
as follows: (1) Phil Koonce 99";
(2) Bill Gramley 94'5; (3) Pete
Asheraft 70; (4) Al Elder 47; (5)
Dave Regen 34; (6) Harley Smith
and Oyvind Norstrom, both 32;
(8) Henry Brown 26%; (9) Don
Stewart 25; (10) Scott Woodman-
see. Four of the top scorers are
seniors; three are juniors, and

class.

Quality Dry Cleaning

For That Final Spring Function, Bring
Your White Dinner Jackets, Tux Shirt,
and Pants To Us For That Extra Touch In
Cleaning and Pressing.

|KAs, PIKAS SHARE

Jackson Cleaners

Phone 5196 Davidson

Dick Weeks and Bob Crittenden
dropped only one table tennis
match apiece to win a tie for
their fraternities, the KAs and
Pikas respectively.

The results in the overall IFC
race give the front running KS a
44 point lead over the number two
Phi Delts and spread of 98 over
the third place Sigma Chis.

game| Dave Page lost
having been completed, Davidson's) breaker as four Cat errors gave

field| W&M
31 win

Final results Won Lost
Pika a ae 1
we... _ 10 1
Kappa Sigs 9 2
EEE 3
Phi Delt 2. 5
Sigma Chi a 5
Independent 5 6
TI scicictistinnreetin a 9
Phi Gam . 2 9
Pi Kapp 1 10
SPE ani 0 11
EE aa ll

a three-hit heart-

two unearned runs and a

Re

——

Don Comer, Wildcat third baseman blasting out one of the three triples in the second game of Tues-
day's double header with Witliam and Mary. The hit scored Dave Page but was not encugh to provide

the victory as the Red and Black lost 3 to 1.

RECORDS IN RECEIVING AND SHOT PUT

BILL GRAMLEY WORKHORSE
FOR TRACK AND FOOTBALL

By JIM PAGE an amateur tronomer, as. well
The littl watehed: the big) 4s painter, who maintains a high
man sitting under the tree | B average as a major in English
“Say,””. he id, “aint. you Bill As a trackman, “The Stallion”
Gramley, the football player?’ has written h most impressive
“F gsuess aid Bill record. With a total of 94% point
“Aint you the one that catches he is seeond in points scored for
all them passe this season.
“I try to,” Bill said, Sometimes} Before — this Spring, Bill had
I do, sometimes | don’t.” never participated in_ the high
“Watcha. doin’ with that) jump This year he leads the
brush?” Cats with a bar clearanee of 5° 10”,
“I'm: trying to paint,” Bill said. and never drops velow 5’ 8”
fu —_ fo paint that building) an. sot and discus, however, |
aa are his real meat. When the big
The boy looked. disappointed
“What's the matter?” Bill asked — begins . handling those
“Ah gee,” the little boy -said,} |
“You aint Bill Gramley the foot |
ball player |

No real football player, would |
paint pictures!” j

And so went the opinion of the)
little boy. Perhaps it should have}
been. adopted by the last year's |
Southern half backs. |
They might have fared better. As}
it was, Davidson's artistically in-|
clined end caught a total of 22)
passes and gained for his team 330}

SISSY

Conference

yards. When the season ended, the}
football playing artist was first inj
the Conference in_ pass reception |
and had earned a place on the All|
Conference Academic squad. Com-|
menting on Gramley’s play, Coach!
Dole has said, “Bill has what it!
takes to be one of the finest ends |

—s

,., And also with a paint brush |

perhaps

non-athletic
position as part
man for Salem. College

fatl
This

hi

in this conference.” Not bad for}

RA. J; REYNOLDS TOPACCO CO. , WINSTON-SALEM, N.C

falso on the ¢

Bi

ver
boy

—— VOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!

WINSTON 28 $00 ejoy filter Suoking/

@ Winston is the cigarette that gives you flavor in filter smoking
— full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder Winston’s so popular with college

urt of Control, But

I's.) most. outstanding

chievement is his
time night watch
of which
is president

really versatile!

GOLFERS, NETTERS IN
CONFERENCE COMPETITION

Golf Action at Danville,
Tennis at Williamsburg

Today at Danville, Virginia, the Davidson golf team takes
on the best as they enter the Southern Conference Tourna-

ment. The three-day tennis tournament at Williamsburg, Vir-
inia will continue through tomorrow.

lhe golf match will be 36-holes
| played on the Danville Course.) eludes. Captain John Robinson,
| Davidson will enter seven men in|} Semi Mintz, John © Poindexter,
the individual honors competi-| Dave Pearsall, Bob Huffaker, and
tion, but can field on ix-Man| Tom McCutchen
tourney team. The men who will
play in team competition will be
lecided on. th Dash if indivi- KAPPA $IGS LEAD
dual play, the Citadel mateh the
é lay. before (Thu i and past IFC SPORTS RACE
a irecords. The met ll be picked
l from - these Larry > Par With exdms looming in the near
lrott and Skippe Hall playing | future the race for the IFC sports
their. last college match; Juniors championship is thundering down
Stuart Vaughn and: George Seott; the home stretch
SEARS —| Freshmen Sam Slodn, Bucky Dén-| TWO .teams have the inside
inis, and Tom Johnson. The team | track, and a third closely fol-
score will consist the four| lows these two. With only the re-
lowest st led among the} Sults of tennis, softball, and var-
six men bee poy sg remaining to be
added to the standings, the Kappa
Washingt Lee, the de- Sigs are onl few pote
}fending chai among several | front of the Pl closely fol-
other Vir which the] towed by. the na Chis :
ats hav t. faced this sea- Steve Ni SAE. won first
son Jud last year's, record, place in the tennis singles by de-
weights, he really dpens uy rn cs = ype would have tO! teating Ned Austell, Beta, and fol-
the shot he holds th chool — senna ee ca) lowing e “two were Echols,
record. The place. \ last. vear’s — 18 lividual bide Was) SAE i Sharp, ATO. The doubles
Southern Conference Meet and ~— two on) have begun, and as of Wed-
the distanee was 47.4 [eet. | p tin | °°" } nesd had not . pre gressed far
ow, the sehool record in the: dis-| -~? m for the confer-} enough to give any one team the
cuss has alluded him; but he’s; °° Wildeats edged out! favorites role
working on it. The record stands The Cit 15 to 12 yesterday to rhe arm of Joe Williferd con
it 146 feet. Bill ‘his. spun the} #ven f lier loss. Sloan, Par.) tinues to pace the ‘Phi Gams as
Hise. 145.714" rott, Va nd. Johnson won they hold undisputed: first place
} : ' the Sam. Sloan's 760 w in- the softball loop. The only con
Fomoerrow the “team runs) joy the Davidson squad, but tenders of the Phi Gams are the
against North Carolina State, and} yparriott Citadel wa lalist) Sigma’ Chis, who trail by one
that meet could be the bie day At with half gam :
eennanigat en Davidson's tennis squad barn
inches is not very much ; Team W L Behind
will enter the tournament un- heges
By holding a Union Carbide as| defeated by Conference . op- a a 2 5 ;
well’ as an athletic cholarship ponents, but they have not i Db a ‘ 5 F
Bill shows his versatility. His yet faced the strongest teams. ipa — ‘ a :
isummers also speak of a truly) The Wildeats have won the | SPE 4 3 2
well rounded individual. Summer — ~ ~~ oe | Bete 4 2'2
i aiek i, eae MANN alae years in singles, doubles, and ATOs 3 4 9
, as-spent. Tilting: stec team competition, but this K © ae 4
in a mill im Winston-Salem. Last season they enter as under- sae” pe " 4
summer, he toured Europe, where dogs. pare 2 5 4
he spent a great deal of his time rhe quad, consisting of. five) Pi Kapps ) +
studying in: Art Gallerys in Eng-, freshmen and a lone Junior, ins Independents 2. 4\2
land and on the continent. Here
on the campus, Bill is: active in oe a
‘the Beaver Club and the Y and i

See "en~nrarvy
- SHOP
“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET CHARLOTTE

smokers clear across the country. Along with real flavor, Winston also brings you
a finer filter that works so well the flavor comes right through. Try Winston!

WINSTON
Ameica's No.1

filter cigarette!

