Cat's Meow

LEON HOWELL

SPORTS AND AMERICA

Perhaps there is no single element that has become more
distinctly American than the rabid enthusiasm that has de-
veloped for sports during the past fifty years. From a purely
amateur, often clandestine and crude, origin to one of the
nation’s biggest businesses is quite a growth, one that could
have its setting only in this country.

Across the face of the land athletic activities hold sway
the year around, ranging from backyard peach-basket basket-
ball to that staged in the Coliseum, from vacant lot baseball
to the Yankee Stadium product, and from midget football
leagues to the bowl games viewed by 100,000 or more.

Reasons for participation are varied, but some of the/)
same motivation that causes a 10 year old to seek tennis in-
struction is driving a hopeful at Wimbledon. A vast capacity
for enjoying competition, for matching skill against skill,
desire against desire, and in cases of equal ability, guts
against guts has lead myriads of people into taking part in
sporting activities of one type or another.

After the frenzied drive to make America a power had
neared fruition, the game came along to give proof of the
greatness of this land. Athletics and activities giving stern
competition and demanding personal sacrifice for accomplish-
ment are the outer signs of that which has been deep within
the people that constitute our country. And a continuation of
this spirit is essential to any pretense at consolidation of that
which has been gained.

APOLOGIA FOR EXISTENCE

There are several tangible explanations for the existence
of sport, among them the fact that it is our greatest source
of entertainment. Love of its principles are the nearest thing
we have to offer as a panacea for the drabness and dullness of
making a living in a mechanized society. Somehow, | feel
sorry for the person who has never waited anxiously for the
results of his beloved “Bums” or “Sox” in their contest of the
day. Or for the one who can not forget his own troubles in the
utter dejection of “the Duke” going hitless or Hogan taking
a 74.

Most important, it seems to me, is the character building
qualities that have done so much to relieve juvenile delin-
quency. Winning is important, is the basis for competition,

but not on any terms. This is why we applaud success, pick
our hero, and conceive of him as being a part of ourselves. Yet |)

regard for the vanquished, the honorably defeated, never
escapes the view.

(here are many more ramifications of any analysis of
the positive goods of sport that are pertinent, among them the
development of self-confidence and the ability to follow
Socrate’s advice to “Know Thyself” in leaving self-pity, alibis,
and excuses behind and accepting blame with praise.

And for those who have assumed an air of disdain for
sport along with their pseudo-intellectuality, I remind them | ~
that the greatest of all cultures, that of Ancient Greece, is the
only country to ever rival our devotion to the game.

DAVIDSON AND ITS PLACE

Athletics at Davidson are in a healthy position according
to this view. With almost all of the teams posting winning
seasons, we have some very interesting games. At present,
even if we had the money, it would be a difficult thing to
rival the “big four.” There is just so much talent to be pur-
chased. I, for one, prefer a Davidson team composed of con-
genial, high-quality athletes like we have today to a situation
comparable to the UNC, State squads with their New York
cast.

Dreams are fine and I admit that I would like to see
Davidson listed among the top 20 squads. But it is not very
realistic to think that it is possible at the present, or even if
it were, that it would be desirable. So until a more propitious
situation presents itself, let’s have sport for its sake.

A spring practice session that|Center Nix
has been constantly interrupted by| QB pails Little
rain and more rain reaches its cli-| HB _. .. Cutting and McRee
max tomorrow at 2 p. m. in the| FB _ praeE eS ee Conger
red-white inter-squad game. Fans WHITE
here at Davidson have their annual} Ends - _ and Westervelt
opportunity for a sneak preview of Tackles ar Lee and Biggers
the next —_—_ prospects. Guards _ McLain and Howard

Center _. . James
Ends . sudan na and Wall ‘ .. Belton
Tackles - _-steee Fagg and Voigt ~ Barbee ‘and Campbell
Guards _... Gramley and Wilson ee _ Fennegan

Tournament Ti
Swimmers Rout S. C.

By TED DINGLER
Amid the hue and cry of Mid-Winters preparations, the
Davidson Catfish made good the predictions of Coach Carroll
Hambright when they defeated South Carolina, 59-16. In
doing so they broke five Davidson varsity records and pre-
sented a 5-5 won-lost record going into the Southern Con-
ference meet.
Leading the way for the Cats was
Tommy Rivers, who set two new
records in the 50- and 100-yard | 200-yd. Freestyle — 2:27.4 against
dashes, The 50-yard record was) 2:188 (220-yd)—V.MLI.
dropped from :24.3 to :24.1, and the | 50-yd. Dash :24.1 against

this meet at a disadvantage, as the
following time will show:

:23.9

100-yard from :56.3 to :54.8. VPI

Bill Carrell was close behind, tak-| 200-Indiv. Medley —2:30.3 against
ing with him two records also. His| 9.959  y p
accomplishments included the 200- | 100-vd. Das? 54.8 apainst :54.9
yard Individual Medley and the 200- iain, oS. Se en ee

yard backstroke. The Medley was)
dropped to 2:30.3, and the Back- | 200-yd. Backstroke
stroke to 2:47.0 2:19.2—V. M1
Unusual among the events of the | 440-yd_ Free st ¥le

2:47 against

5:39.0 against

meet was Clarke and Speir tying in| 5:08.3 VMI

breaking the 200-yard Freestyle rec-| As you can see, the Cats are
ord at 2:27.4. The previous record | up against some tough competi-
had been set in 1951 at 2:29. Clark| tion, but there are bright spots
took one other record, the 440-| in Diving and the 50-and 100-yd.
yard Freestyle, making the new} Dashes. Coach Hambright stated

mark 5:39.0 | that we should place near the tép
Sharp and Bryant in Fancy Div-/ in most of the other events, and
ing, and Edwards in the Breast-|come out of the Championship
stroke completed Davidson's sweep' with possibly third place, which
of all ten events in the meet. would be admirable for a team

This meet ended Davidson’s (with no scholarship supplementa-
season at 5 and 5, and provided tion and little depth. However, the
the last meet before the Souv- (team is doing the best it has all
thern Conference Champion- | season, and we can be sure that
ship at V.M.1. this week end. they will all be out there fighting
The swimmers are going into! at Lexington this weekend.

et eget + ne ——

Davidson Wins Don Spenser Award For
Editorial Excellence Of Football Program

The Davidson football programs which are printed be-
fore each home game have won the Don Spenser Award for
outstanding contribution to the editorial standards of college
football programs. This award is presented annually to the
twelve schools coming closest to meeting the standards pre-
scribed by the Don Spenser Company of New York, well-

| great strength make

for

Ends
Season

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Wildeats close out

Davidson's
the regular 1955-56 basketball sea-!
son tonight as they meet the In-
dians of William and Mary in the

final half of
ence jaunt

a two-game confer
into Virginia. Last
night the Red and Black met V
MI. in a contest which featured
a determined Keydet effort to re
main in the race for a berth in the

Southern Conference tourney
With the league tournament

scheduled for next week, two spots
remain unfilled, and Davidson
Washington Lee, and. VMI

and

iors teamed with Richard
Weeks in a gallant fight to
stop the South Carolinians
Harding was high point-man
for the evening with 22 points,

and Cobb followed closely
with 18
rhe first half was nip and tuck,
with the Cats. putting ona spurt
n the final minutes to take oa
lim one-point lead at halftime. In
the carly minutes of the second
half, Davidson was ahead by five
it one time, but the Terriers
me back to close the Rap and

are battling down to the wire for the score. With less than ten
these two spots. Davidson and W to: play, the Wofford ia
& L. have the inside track, but h built up ‘ commanding 58-51
V.MI. still had a fighting chance nd: seaeein We Be oat ol
going into last night’s game, and tae te Bale Polused :
ee oe © » and srovindee ee é the
whip V.P.I. tomorrow. night, they ai 62 Hl with 1:45 heifer
will finish ahead of the Wildeats nities : eas elt s
WOFFORD EDGES CATS 77-73 free throw by Weeks followed

Davidson's cagers finished
the home season here last
Tuesday night as they lost a
thriller to Wofford’s Terriers,
77.73. \t was “Hobby Cobb-Ray
Harding Night” at Johnston
— and the two sen-

One of Davidson's top wrestl
week

athlete of the
st Saturday

outstanding
opponent 4 to 0 i
of the season. He |
is a strong candidate

Dave weighs 195 pounds which is
not excessively heavy for his divi
sion, but his long 6° 5° frame and

him
on the mat

for

a diffi

cult man to control iHe|
: }

pinned his opponent from W & L}

in 4 minutes, 20 seconds and the}

one from Carolina in 1 minute 24
seconds. He won decisions at. the |
Citadel and VMI, suffered his}
single defeat from Marshall Col
lege, and fought to a draw N. ¢
State’s 177 pound Atlantic Coast
Conference champion who has gone
up to the heavy bracket. Big
Dave's record is very surprising}

started wrest-|
of last season

considering that he
ling in the middle
with no previous experience.

An athlete of many
Dave lettered in football,
ball, tennis,
Prep in his home town of Nash
ville. Besides grappling for David

son, he throws the discus and puts |
tract squad and |

the shot for the
has been known to run the hun

dred yard dash gparefooted. Regan |

is one of the few select members

known publishers of college literature.

a the local ohagter of sigue Delt: ay

The twelve award winning col
leges were divided into four
groups, according to the number of |
programs printed. Davidson cap-|
tured third. place among the)
smaller colleges (5 to 10 thousand |
copies) behind Williams and Wash-
ington U. This meant that David-
son’s programs were equal in|
quality to those published by|
UCLA, Penn State, and other large
schools that printed as many as
twenty-five thousand copies per
game.

This was a well earned reward
for Mr. Dick McKee and Business
managers Dan La Far and Gerald
Cathey. These three spent many
hours gathering information about

the opponents, selling advertise-
ments, and planning the lay-out of
the programs.

This is the first time Davidson
has won an award of this nature
so congratulations to McKee, La}
Far, and Cathey for their fine |
work.

Drink
‘M
O
O

R’

QUALITY MILK

Regen Wildcat of Week

undefeated in
‘he he l

abilities,

basket. |
and baseball at Dunean |

A pre-med student, Dave has a
very good scholastic record. He i
ja member of. both the honorary
;German and Chemistry fraterni
ties. Socially Dave belongs to Phi,”
Delta Theta.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N c.

by obb tip-in gave Davidson a

ead with only one minute

remaining In the final minute,
how Wofford seored a quick |
wints, and that was- the

has been selected as the
David Regen defeated
onferenee competition and
yweight championship

5
:

DAVE REGEN

Psi, honorary athletic fraternity

\ tip of the hat
cellent athlet:
a popular member of the stu-
body

un ¢
and
dent

—Vvyou'LL BOTH ¢o FOR THIS CIGARE TTE! ee

CIGARETTE
SHOULD £

® Sure didn’t take college smokers long to find out that Winston tastes
good — like a cigarette should! This easy-drawing filter cigarette brings you
real tobacco flavor, rich and full. What’s more, the Winston filter works so
well the flavor gets right through to you. Try Winston — you'll see!

his |
at the Citadel for his fourth win |

to Dave Regen,
a good scholar ;

, Fish, Grapplers

Wrestlers Hit VMI Sat.

| Tomorrow night at 7:00 in Johnston Gymnasium the Da-

| vidson wrestling team will meet VPI. VPI is the defending
Southern Conference champion and has an excellent team.
Coach Parker says that they are probably the best college
| team in the South outside of Maryland. This will undoubtedly
lbe Davidson's toughest match this year and they are going
|into it the underdog.

At the 123. pound. position will)
be Pete Coleman, a freshman, from!
N. C. In the 130 pound!
class is Henry Griffin, a sophomore
ind one of the top wrestlers on
the team. Wrestling 137 will be
Butch Neale, another promising
freshman Larry Wright — will
wrestle and Captain Reitzel
Rounding out the Cat class
Harold Westervelt at. p i
167,. Rickie King Dent Acree ae
ut 177,. and Dave: Regen the .
heavyweight spot

Day will
match their
will give: it. everythin
to upset VPI

On Wednesday night the fif-

teenth of February at 8:00 the

Davidson wrestlers were de-

feated by the Generals of

Washington and Lee nineteen

to ten. The Generals have a
fine wrestling team and they
displayed it well by winning
five of the eight matches.

the heavyweight division
Regen turned in his usual
fine performance by pinning his
man. The other Davidson victor
was Larry Wright in the 157 pound
Pete Coleman and Denis
grappled to a draw in a
hotly contested match

Salisbury,

In
Dave

147
Snider 157
team will be

Captain Reitzel Snider in the
157 pound class turned in his usual
fine performance. Butch Neale,
wrestling 137, Richardson King,
177. Henry Griffin, and Barry
Benton, all wrestled good
matches. As a whole, the David-
son grapplers wrestled a very fine
match, but the Generals of Wash-
ington and lee. -Beoved too mueh.

IFC Track onGreek Menu

On Wednesday an

rough
they
have

idson
on hands and

thes

! Thursday of

peel coming week, the IFC sport's
Hambright Resigns v2, exter emer prose ot
| its ag ienda with ‘a annual track

On Wedn night of — this| Meet. It will be held at the stadium
}week Coach rroll, Hambright’s| 0 these afternoons

| resignation nnounced by Dr.| The winner receives the _ big
Cunninghan vill become effee-| trophy signifying superiority in the
tive at thi t the hool year meet and which rotates each year

a : The Kappa Sigs now ho F
Po. replac m ll be Pride gi a © a
will be out to retain possession -of

Ratterre: ine coach ati,
Wake 1 ul , the coveted award
| Wake Fores! 10 Will-assume his :
" ; - rhe final résults from basket
new rote iu vugust, MN¢

| ball tor the season are not com-
Ratterr yed at Wake Forest} plete as the paper goes to press,
and w Chicago Cardinals. but the Kappa Sigs knocked — off
hen he « hed at Staunton Mili-} the Betas Wednesday night, throw-
tary Ai for two years, fol-}ing the loop lead into a three way
lowed by years. at Lenoir} tie between the ATOs, Sigma Chis,
Rhyne. He went to Wake Forest in}and the . Betas. Final standings,
1954 and left in the recent shake-| along with the all-star squads, will

curried next week

CAT TRACK TEAM JOURNEYS TO RALEIGH,
PLACE SIXTH IN CONFERENCE INDOOR MEET

By OYVIND NORSTROM rest of the team failed to place
The small squad that | This week Pete Ashcraft
represented Dayidson in last week] and Phil Koonce represent the
Southern Conference indoor| Wildeat trackmen at the ACC
meet at Lexington, Va, could| competitions in Raleigh. Ash-
better than a one-point aver craft gets another crack at
ixth place in the stiff} Pitkethly, and Koonce will
competition dominated by Virginia] also see plenty of tough oppon-

up there be

nine man

end
track

age ior a

fech ind William & Mary. David-| ents.
0 ) peints were ear ete | ~
n u were ¢ arned by Pete NOTICE

Asher 6), runner-up in ‘both the = :
milk the 880, Bill Gramley | All mon interested oe tee
9) tt + ted ‘stot take ae ike | out for the tennis team are
re pur, and Nos) requested to meet with Coach
j well M (1), who finished) MeKee in the P. E. classroom
‘fourth the quarter mike. The} in the gym at 4 p. m. Monday.

WINSTON
the ea GA.AY- drawing

filter cigarette | I

