Pray, OCrgcon 13, 1257 rit

ae r TT — %

~ * xy |
a ee

irs!
Ve

Va. Tech Tomorrow

> '

t FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST
‘At Lexington Short

Name _ -
By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

art

it oh

SOCCER ACTION against Pfeiffer finds the visiting goalie scooping up the ball as Wildcats Ed Irvin (center) and Ross Room P. O. Box

Smyth (right) movo in. Davidson defeated Pfeiffer, 5.0, In last Friday’s action.—(Photo by Ed Stevens) Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson gridders will take

Oideon VISITING TEAM in West Virginia Tech in what would be termed a
avidson Presbyterian |“breather”. The game, however, promises to be more of
PLAY STATE TODAY Alabama Mississippi State a contest than in previous years.
6 s 9! Mississippi Arkansas Assistant h Tom St —
. ee ssistant coac em evens, -
por S U \ Virginia . Army who scouted Tech, reports that
| Furman The Citadel | they have a fast. hard hitting 2» ‘
VMI George Washington team, which has compiled a 3-1 *
BY e s West Virginia William and Mary — ‘record this season. | =
it = = ins South Carolina Clemson The Golden Bears from NW f
GEORGE RAMSEY , | N. C. State Duke Montgomery, W. Va., will yj
Florida L.S.U. pose a three-man offensive 5
By BOBBY PAGE K ok G : threat to the Cats, com- Cox PRICE
Davidsonian Sports Writer entucky eorgia
Tulane Georgia Tech posed of fullback Slair lespi
KEY TO SUCCESS As of last Monday’s 2-1 overtime victory over Wash- ay nigan State 9 IMinois Weese and halfback Paul °°P'®
A few weeks ago there appeared in this column the ‘on and Lee. the Davidson soccer team has “arrived.” Maryland Tennessee Yours. ved Rover" We tate ane i 59? ona
, “ ae . - ° more tate it the 4inal stanz
statement that “Charlie Benson ... is pretty much the The 5.0 win over Pfeiffer one his aft ' Minnesota Michigan NEW FACES whén Ralph setgier capped a
key to the Davidson (football) fortunes.” — . week ago was expected as it was | fect ow, t lorther the ca . Pennsylvania Navy 73-yard drive by banging: over
The reference was to the southpaw quarterback from only the second soccer match | bilities of “ now expert Notre Dame Pittsburgh Due to injuries among sev- from two yards out,
Maitland. Florida who had stepped into the saddle Oe aenetition. but out enced team. Leaders in the Wake Forest North Carolina ora nt mee nee "vill oper’ The hopes of the David-
"4 6 0 . ‘ warhorse when juniors Tom Cutting and Sam five point margin was not too Atlantic Coast Conferenco, Texas A&M Baylor in the Davidson tine-up. Dave 80 faithful were promptly
cGuirt fell victim to injury. much to relax upon, tate will prove to be one Houston Auburn ‘McCullough will fill in for ail. quenched, however, as the
In four games Benson has sprouted into a virtual But when Mike Laughli of the toughest tests of the oo ; ing Dave Warden at fullback, Keydets pleased the parti-
giant on the Wildcat football scene. His exploits took a pass fe cm Gor Non year. Total Points by all 40 Teams — ,and George Hart and freshman’ sah Homecoming crowd two
thusfar have been good enough to rank him second Neville and babied the yel- Coach J |W  McCutchan’s BOB LATHAN WINS SONIAN Football Guessing Con- foe cus win sub aa injured, ae Nate eae sedan
in the Southern Conference in two departments— low sphere down the side fancy-free personality over-ran . test must be placed in the bal- Ital h Se lc “Th ml cregular, loose “tor a 49-yard $ ring
its cup late Monday afternoon The winner of last week's con-| 19) bex at the College Union alph. Setzler, The only regular ; Y coring

in the backfield will be Charlie} sprint.

total offense and passing offense. line until he had made
Benson. who is scheduled to

a perfect assist, and when test was Bob Lathan, who cor- ‘desk not later than 6 p.m. next

as he took a tremendous step

is Hy ctly picked 16 of 20 Hames. ||);
24 X 4 _ 306 Yard Ross Smyth, who was tear- toward his .500 season. A win| Tec ; : Friday, October 25 SEVERAL PRAISED
5 S ing down the middle of the today would undoubtedly make /and won 2 wannented tic oy To indicate your choice for pen a ee ;
He ranks second only to enemy’s_ defense, blasted him dream of a .750 mark 10 oe total, closest to the number ing winner of each game, cir- n last Saturday's 26-14 Wildeat. mentor Bill Dole. de-

loss to VMI, Davidson’s la- spite the loss. was pleased with
ns. Lathan, ¢ | To indicate a tie, cirete both tent offense, stymied for his team's performance. “The
;wanners, will receive $2.50 to- teams. Be sure to fill in your the fiest three quarters, team had a lot of fight to stay
:ward the purchase of any met-| suogs for the total points at erupted for two fourth = in there and score twice in the

' virtue of 24 completions in' not i
until then had they ry °
. an - | . 3 . . . te .
45 attempts for 306 yards | played a complete contest in Riflers Fire Under _chandise at Wilson Wright's! ih. pottom of the ballot. Period ouchdownee pee fourth quarter.” he said. He
\ ; r anage Oo clm

a : : - inh anar night. of total points (641) scored by! oie either. team of each ir.
Furman’'s Billy Baker in ome the winning goal, the ait teams. Lathan, and all other cle cither. team of each pai

aerial accomplishments, by Cts proved themselves.

and two touchdowns. His|which they showed the poten- clothing store. Each reader is limited to one ‘singled out for praise Benson.
favorite receivers, Harold tial that was theirs. a _ All entries for THE DAVID- | entry per. week out of the hole. . who intercepted four enemy
ilc e ’ aiace | The Keydets from Lexington passes besides standing out on

Westervelt and Craig Wall SUPREME ACHIEVEMENT
have latched on to enough! Monday, October ‘14th. saw. quarters on a pass from Duke. gilt Price. Paul Biggers, and
of the Benson tosses to A previous 4-1 defeat at the, freshmen converging on the Da-| KA K Si ; To Johnston to Bobby Jordon and! craig Wall. }
rank third and fourth, re- hands of powerful Duke seemed yidson indoor rifle range for | s, appa igs p on’ an It-yard end swéop by: .
honorable enough. But to stay the first time this year, in ‘an! Sam Horner. Commenting on the forthcom
‘ ‘ ing West Virginia Tech game,

with a team that is just as good, attempt to secure a slot on the H ;
it not a litle better by reputa, seme vine team. i-F Flickerball League OFFENSE CLICKS Dole said, “After losing seven
tion, and pull out a hard fought ‘lettermen in the. backfield by

ceivers.
Benson’s 405-yard total vgs 7
. a . - W ‘ ain- ; :
win is a supreme athletic. Daily practice firing has been’ By HENRY RAMSEY ith fifteen minutes remain graduation, and now- having the
: ing to play, VMI rested on a- : ani :
three returning iettermen = tn-

offensive figure places ; D t Rs, b res Wei
him 82 yards behind con-! achievement, going on for several weeks, Dut: ; F Sports Writer an: _ [13 to 0 margin. At this point | ;
%& y \this has been limited to mém- Aceording to coach Heath Whittle, the inter-fraternity | ine ‘cat ottenee began to aoe. steed. a lot of stress will be

ference - leading Bo bby _ The victors -were behind aft- . ‘e: : ; ; i i
BENSON Schwarze of The Citadel, ,er the first quarter, 10, but ners last year af team. we flickerball tournament is “going nicely”. All of the fra-: Berison completed three passes, Placed en untried nen in the
| urning m 8 > W. J.iternities, plus the Independents, are taking an active and then scored on a fifteen’ oy, mistakes. since there is

Defensively, the wrong-armed wonder has proved Smyth took Ed Irvin's pass and Lohman, R. H. Martin, J. naar . -
‘ tied the score early in the sec- Pinkney, A. .C. Ruggles. W. and enthusiastic part in the program. yard run on, the option play.’ jothing like experience.”

(oe wm wee ee Ss ™ «seored in the second and third’ offense, along with linemen

spectively, among S&S. C.

ry ry ‘ . *
himself quite capable he 2 safety " last K. eet +, ond frame. Scott, J. H. Wearn, P. W Payne.| With twenty-eight games hav Pave Page's conversion made it
contest with V.M.I. e intercepte our ey er For approximately th 'R. P* Wilson, C. O. Pickard.['"8 been played through Wed- apicce put the Phi Delts and 713.
passes, two of which he snagged when the soldiers minut re ti ely the next 50 Gc. Hemingway. nesday afternoon, the . KA’s|Sigma Chis in a tie for fourth | VMI refused to give up the
were within the Wildcat 10-yard line. hit the gosl’s ton, erucial shots hell. of held first place, with the Kap | place. Marvin Bentley and Dave Fold, mey marched down ne A ( T | 0 N | N
j ; in: . Captain J. W. Mitchell, of- pa Si shi . Wood led the Phi Delts icld on the shoulders of their
His calibre of play in the V.M.I. game prompted pub- ends of the field. twenty-two ficer in charge. and M-Sgt. W.|oecore slot them from the 6 vectony nee mo cits to eae fleet backs for another ‘tally, 5 | G H T
licity director Dick .McKee to nominate him for South-:men sweated that one goal that'c, Wallace, team coach, have . “Sparked “hy Wallace, West,| Killian, Reiger. and Cline aided Scoring on an aerial from quart- ,
ern Conference Player of the Week. ; seemed enh five in such a: heen operating (he ifidoor range and. Sonny. Ferguson, the KA's}the Sigs in downing the Phi erback Bobby Ross to Jim Gil: oatuRpay, OCTOBER 19
It seems that the key has turned in the right direction aren. ‘Monday through Friday be-/ downed the Sigma Nu’s on|Gams, 34 to 6 — ~  Roothall W Va. Tech

tween the hours of 1 and 5 p:m.’ wednesday, 57-6, for their fifth In fifth place in the league Interfraternity Council will give FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25

for the Wildcats. : ar
; GOALIE BUSY i Both expressed a desire and n-' win against no tosses. The Kap-jare the ATOs, with three. wins a trophy to. the fraternity with Soecér --U North Carolina’
ODDS AND ENDS | .Near the end of regulation | ‘°"! : he Davidson produce’ pa Sigs strengtheried their hold|and two losses. There is a two-'the largest pereenlage of its’ Cross Country N. C. State—
i i i lation Gne of the best teams in the on second place by defeating} way split for honors in number.’ me bers ity t Th Willia 1a
. . yeni ou football) time. Wildcat goalie. Claude! ; sees vay § . or . er members -aon varsity teams. The Villiam and Mary
Bach Tuesday ol Wednestay even ne y tthe pre | Finney. was swatting away pos. conference. the ATOs, 25 to 12. for a 4-0] six place between the Pikas and members need not letter in a SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26
fans can see the films 0 e road games player! tne p sible goals as though he had They recently announced aj record. the SAEs, each team having! sport fo be counted in this pers — Football—Presbyterian

The Pi Kapps. Idd by Pec| wen two games while losing | centage. At Davidson
Lide and Paul Rudisell, moved! two. The - Betas, Sigma Nes. ———— eee
‘into third place by taking the|SPEs, and Phi Gams bring up ~ ai

vious Saturday by Davidson. accompanied by a COM been attacked’ by a swarm of!ten meet schedule. plus week-:
mentary by a member of the coaching staff, in the Col- bees. He proved his worth, and. ly. postal. matches with teams

er

lege Union... then. Davidson cashed in on its!such as Georgia, Maine, U. S. Betas f 20-0 rid th ith 0-4 i
; . *. . " turn in the overtime. Military Academy. and the Uni- eas for a eee Te Whittle vated th
Although Davidson can point with pride to Benson, N. C. State invaded the vversity of Denver. Threo wins ‘and onc loss] Whittle anounced that the

Westervelt, and Wall as among the conference leaders ,—-—_1__ _
in various. departments, and to the team effort that rates
better than average in most fields."the ‘Cats shudder to

think of the last place ranking they hold in the punting
department. This is one factor that has kept the locals
in the hole so often this season . . my!
From the confines of Johnston pool comes a splash—
the Davidson swimming team is getting its feet wet for;
the forthcoming season. And from the thud of ball against | “Wa LC INCORPORATED The Best Dressed Men
hardwood you can hear the basketballers shaping up.

Seems like only yesterday we started to school and| 1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE
already the winter athletes are working out! Charlotte, N. C.

| At Davidson Wear
After-Six Tuxedos up fo $3.00 | Clothes From

| SAVE ON ALBUMS
Shawl Collars of Silk Satin Living Presence
Mercury... 98¢

$45.00 u | a
Po |) Bet San Rc Of Two Minds

RENTALS ALSO Columbia Buy of the Month Gotoh me

| On the other hand, T. Gourmet Smythe
_ soe S198 Jack Wood Ltd, | sansessccee
:
30? ... .
Wilson-Wright 5, Inc. Epic Hi-Fi Hit of the Month ‘Mt Gost No More to Bross Correctiy’ "oo gud ata ouch Enda. SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

St vous?
” : ee 300 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.
Collegiate Fashions $2 98 ° Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By
e@esensen 6

“Coke” ls 6 registered trede-mark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Davidson, N. C. | | THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

