HISTORY OF
TOMMY PETERS AWARD

READERS WRITE

LETTERS TO EDITOR
(PAGE THREE)

(Page Two)

yp HBavinsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1957

No. 25

==) Ch

ODK Ceremony Taps New Members

%

‘ 2 % %

Smyth, New Council Take Office

; ‘denen

Six Juniors, Dr. Ford,
One Senior Chosen

Omicron Delta Kappa tapped seven members of the
student body and one member of the faculty for mem-
bership in spring ceremonies at Chapel yesterday.

Those clected to memberhip ‘

Oath Administered
in Chapel Service

Dan LaFar installed Ross
Smyth as Student Body
president in. the Student
Council inauguration this |

morning. Trask Chapin Bradford Gilmer were John Trask. John C. Bern- | Omega fraternity next year. .
In his final speech as Stu. | hardt. Lloyd Chapin, Bill Bon-|Lioyd has hetd office on the

| dont Body president, LaFar, . durant.~ John Gilmher, David] Y. Cabinet..and the newspaper

charged the Council to uphold” Bradford. Ross:Smyth, and Pro-/ staft.

,the Honor System and to strive ‘ y fessor Harold P. Ford. Bill Bondurant will. be Presi-

‘to maintain harmonious rela- — These men were tapped after (Continued on Page 4)

tions with other internal Col- — ee a brief ceremony highlighted

Iege organizations and with the ; ) -/ by an address by Dr. John R. sae

outside as well. Cunningham. on icadership. ne! Mf i Fr { {

After his installation, Sntyth dc mek tad defined the four qualities 0 C a ern les

installed % il necessary to ke ¢ lead-

“gave his acceptance spect Smyth Bondurant Bernhardt Ford er as capacity. character, coun Select New Officers
a i _ . Said Smyth, “1 think we have ~ —— -———————____________ —__  — J age, and commitment. Four more Davidson fraterni-

an excellent Student Council Professor Ford is known to|ties have completed their spring

COUNCIL SWORN IN to work with next year. I would HOUSEMOTHERS? many of the members of the clections.

student body for his wide in-
terest in student affairs. He has| Frye, archon; George Sutcliffe,
recently served as co-chairman | secretary; Bob Keown, treas-
of the Winter Services Commit-lurer: Gil Grossman, boarding
tee. Ford will return to Wash-| house manager; and Joe Hus-
ington next year as a special ad-| kins, IFC representative.

visor to the State Department! Gary Maynard was elected

New Developments on Far Eastern Affairs. president of Kappa Sigma.
John Trask, a rising senior{/Others were: Marshall Sasser,

!
The second open forum on the new fraternity court from Beaufort. S. C., is editor] first vice president: John Bern-

like to encourage students to/ The Pi Kapps elected John

bring their problems to us so!
that we might be most effective
in meeting their needs.”

VERSATILE COUNCIL '

The Student Council is com.:

| posed of the Student Body of-
the presidents of the:

New members of the ‘57-58 Student Council raise their hands as they begin to repeat
the. oath administered by President Ross Smyth (fer right). Left to right, they are: Sonny
Ferguson, John Bernhardt, Bill Fraley, Bill Bondurant, Ralph Bright, Dave Robinson, Char-
tie Rutherford, Roy Gilbert, Tom Cutting, Bob Huffaker, and John Kuykendall. Absent at
the time the picture was made were Bobby Livingston, Pat Woodward, and Dabney Stuart.

SINGLE UNITS PREFERRED

| ficers,
\three upper classes, the Fresh-'
man Adviser, and seven class’

Gs @
Fratern ities In Str ong representatives. was held during chapel period Monday in the Blue Room ‘of the DAVIDSONIAN, He is in|hardt, second vice-president:
President Smyth. Union Car- of the College Union. “his second year as Kappa Al-(Sam Sloan, secretary; Craig
—_—. _ pha’s representative to the In-| Wall. treasurer; Arthur Lynn,

bide Scholar from Charlotte, N. Creighton Peden initiated the
C., has previously been secre- most significant new develop.
tary-treasurer and vice-presi- ment of the discussion. Noting
‘dent of the Student Body. He the wide varience in fratern

holds membership in the Beaver sizes; he asked how the rity

ter-Fraternity Council. John is{boarding house manager: and
also chairman of the Publica-]Charlie Stowe, IFC representa.
tions Board: and a member of/tive. —

the International Relations Club. | Alpha Theta Phi chose Randy

‘Dance Weekend
Plans Unveiled

Favor Of New System

By JOE( VERREAULT the change. tthere was a possibility that the' Club, D Club. and was a mem- of the new houses would be John Bernhardt of Kappa Sig- Daniel, president: Ben Farley,
Davidsonian Staff Reporter Ten fraternities were in fa-|question of limiting fraternity/ber of the Chapel Choir his! apportioned. ;ma has been clectetl President| vice-president: Leland  Ed-
vor of a new arrangement, one|membership would be consid-,Freshman year. He is a past p Grier Martin Suggested two] Boo vones, President of the of the Senior Class of ‘58. Hejmunds, secretary; airman

announced the IFC;has filled two other student|Cumming, treasurer; and Bob:

eC, has
plans for Rush Week and the body offices serving as secre-| MacRae, IFC representative.
Dance Weekends for the 1957-'tary of the Sophomore classi The Sigma Chis selected Grier
58 school year. and as a vice-president of the|Davis, president: Roger “Bates.
Rush Week will begin Mon- student body. Jotn is. from Le-| vice-president; Graham McKin-
day, September 23. and wil) Moir. N. C. oon, secretary; Lachicotte
- Lloyd Chapin, a rising senior] Zemp. treasurer: William Hunt-

Fraternity men voted 6 to 1

Monday in favor of adopting preferred the status quo, and/ered later. /Fecipient of the Howard. Chemis-. possibilities: first, that the size

one has not yet voted. According to Mr. Martin the jtry Award and has served his and bidding of each fraternity
the new fraternity arrange-| mr. p. Grier Martin, the Col-:results of the voting would be, Fraternity “Sigma Alpha Epsi- pe restricted and/or that a fra-
ment. They prefereea the sth. lege treasurer, said the voting | influential in the Trustees’ fi-|lon, as Rush Chairman. ternity house fec be paid by
gleunit house to the duplex.|.." | indicated a strong senti-| nal decision. The two vice-presidents are
Three-hundred fifty-five votes -each_ fraternity man on a
y ment on the part of the stu- Tom Cutting and John Kuyken- omester basis.

were cast in favor of the siN-ldents for the new system,” but dall. John Johnson observed that|continue through Saturday, ath Oral clay IL becrding h
plea od whit had. b on mani. Ernest Gordon To k meas serv as Smperctary. 2° dietitian would become a September 28. Generally. Rush the YMCA. and will hold the ager: and. Vernon anderson.
eased Wt it had Deen unant- ansas. served as | secretary- ti | Week will be held as it was for : a .
n | sort of housemother in that she 7 ‘same position for Alpha Tau|IFC representative.

this past school year with con-
firmation in the Union by |
means of a central board.

treasurer of the Student Body
this year and was president of
(Continued On Back Page)

é

mous as far as fraternities are
‘concerned.”

Results of the poll also indi-

How They Voted

A breakdown of fraternity

would be required to maintain
quarters in the houses.
Dr. McGavock. and Mr. Mar-

Speak At Vespers

—$—_______.___

bulletin boards, announced the

Treasurer’s Office this week.| .

9:45 am., the ROTC Depart-j
ment will hold ceremonies for

each individual instance by her
and the fraternity.

No definite arrangements ,

voting: Present Single Duplex cate that the students prefer a The Rev. Ernest Gordon of tin parried the question by ad-| Freshman will place return:
ATP 4 12 4 [system whereby each nach Princeton will speak at Ves- 2 ‘mitting that the necessity of|date cards in boxes in Cham-:
ATO 1 44 3 would pay ; (lat rate each pers Sunday. Spring Exercises her residence comes from al-|bers and the IFC will handle all:
Beta 8 51 0 semester, rather than one a Also the Sullins College | w . tered focation. size, and circum-| confirmation. Formal pledging
KA 0 66 0 which each fraternity wou | Choir will sing. -oature President stances which necessitate the}will be Saturday afternoon,
KS 8 31 6 pay its own an h ! The Rev. E t Gord constant presence of a respon-|September 28, from 2 p.m. to —_—
Pika 7 32 0 Mr. Martin said that Govt i int aD An of the Ch val Dr. John Rood Cunningham, ; sible person. 3:30 p.m. Mimeographed forms ; se he pl ae oe Y
PiKapps 26 9 0 this system were —_adopte a Pri tet “ ° ity : the President of Davidson College,’ A_ lively opposition to this will be sent to all fraternities! ¢] és ‘aq 4 ve 8
SAE 0 47 0 is . "eof "1985 to ou y d Dr will deliver the Commence: , ignored fact sparked several | giving information on dates. st" nay ow
SPE 7 20 0 . M spring © 0 succee | ment Address to climax a four | questions. The housemother’s rushing rules. and confirma-
Sigma Chi 0 50 0 Stray Notices ust pa: . day Graduation Week, May 24-|first responsibility, although | tion. .
Phi Gam 41 1 4 |Return To Boards a 4q 27. she will be approved by the Col-}' The Dance weekends were
Phi Delt 9 32 4 College regulations specify| be '| Activities for Friday, May 24, lose. will be to the individual) sey ts follows: Homecoming. a ‘n
_ _ — |that all signs and notices] fe, wilt be banquets for the classes j fraternity. _ [October 26 and 27; Midwinters, (a RZ. 4 ae
Total 103 355 21 |should be restricted to the i of ‘32 and '07. | The extent of her authority.| February 14 and 15; and Spring’ ;
t On Alumni Day, Saturday, at: will be negotiated directly in} Frolics, April 18 and 19. Artist conception of library extension . .

gle-unit house while twenty-one
favored the dupiex. and
hundred and three were against

AWARDS DAY

There has been an increasing} —

number of signs placed on
doors, walls, and windows.

Outstanding Students
Honored In Chapel

Outstanding Davidson
honored in Chapel Tuesday

ceremonies.

In chapel services before the
student body, members of the
faculty and staff announced
the winners of prizes and
scholarships. President John R.
Cunningham presided.

Dean Clarence J. Pietenpol
awarded the prize for the
highest average in a freshman
general physics course to Lar.
ry Baggett of Orlando, Fila.

C. Shaw Smith, Director of
Student Activities, awarded the
Tommy Peters Memorial trophy
to Donnie McRee of Newton,
N. C. The award goes to the
senior athlete best exemplify-
| ing the spirit of Tommy Peters,
outstanding Davidson athlete
| from Kingsport, Tenn., who was
| killed in action in World War

Dr. James Y. Causey awarded
the James Wilkerson Jervey
award to George Kemmerer of
Bristol, Penna. The award is to
the rising senior excelling in
Spanish, and is in honor of Jer-
vey, a 1953 graduate from

College students were
in the annual Awards Day

Greenville. 5. C., who died in
South America while studying
under a graduate scholarship.
Prof. John P. Williams award-
ed the A. K. Phifer scholarships
in business and economics to
(Continued On Back Page)

Scabbard & Blade
Chooses Officers

Ned Payne was elected Cap-
tain of Davidson's chapter of
Scabbard and Blade, honorary
military fraternity, Tuesday,
April 23.

Charles Stowe was elected to
the office of First Lieutenant;
Ken Forrester is to serve as
Second Lieutenant. First Ser-
geant is to be Roger Powell.

These positions correspond
to president, vice-president,
treasurer, and secretary re-
spectively. This slate of officers
will serve during the 1957-58
school year.

———_

aad

REV. GORDON

Donald B. Aldrich, who retired
after an eight-year incumben-
ey.

A native of Greenock, Scot-
land, Mr. Gordon was called to
Princeton in 1954 as Presbyte-
rian Chaplain to supervise the
activities of the Westminster
Foundation which carries on
work with the undergraduates
in cooperation with the Uni-
versity and the local churches.

After studying at St. Andrews
University, Edinburgh Univer-
sity, Hartford Theological

Seminary and Glasgow Univer-
sity he was ordained in the
Church of Scotland at Paisley
Abbey in 1950 and for the next
three years was a deputy
minister there.

Founded in 1163, the Abbey
lists among its early pastors
John Witherspoon, sixth Presi-
dent of Princeton, and Thomas
Woodrow, maternal grandfath-
er of Woodrow Wilson, the
University’s thirteenth Presi-
dent, whose mother, prior to
her marriage to an Ulster-Scott,
was Miss Jessie Woodrow.

commissioning into the U. s.|
Army. At 4 p.m. is the ‘annual
Class Day program. The David- |
son College Band will give a
concert at 8 p.m.

Rev. Warner Hall, pastor of
the Covenant Presbyterian
Church in Charlotte, will de-
liver the Baccalaurate Address,
at 11 a.m., Sunday in the Col-
lege Church. Sunday evening:

_ SY A
.

OR. JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM
- » « graduation speaker

will feature a buffet supper for
the seniors and their parents,
friends and guests.

Monday morning at 10:15 the
academic procession will begin,
with graduation being held at
10:30 in Chambers Auditorium.
Dr. Cunningham will deliver
the Commencement Address,
and several honorary degrees
will be conferred.

nee ne nS a Un Aa
%

| served,

High interest was shown hy
the varied questions arising
from the consgderable crowd
of students and faculty. Dr.

‘Schenck inquired as to the pos-

sibility of a professional cater-
ing system serving the. campus.

The rent scale. the chances
of buying a house, the structure
of the houses themsclves, all
led to student inquiries and
comments.

In summation, Mr. Martin ob-
“In changing from an
existing plan to.a new one, you
acquire a good many advan-
tages. but you also Jose some
in the transition.”

Union Will Present
+iCrusade Program

The union forum committee

‘land the YMCA committee for

better citizenship will sponsor
a program on the Crusade for
Freedom on May 9, in the union
ballroom.

The operation of Radio Free
Europe and other projects spon-
sored by the Crusade for Free-
dom will be featured on the
program.

Chuck Houser of the Char-
lotte Observer will speak on
his trip behind the iron cur-
tain last summer and a movie,
“Lifeline to Freedom,” will be
shown.

In conjunction with the pro-
gram, a display showing the
work of the Crusade for Free-
dom will be nlaced in the lobby
of Chambers.

have been made as to the bands.
coming or the concerts to be,
given: Several agencies have:
been contacted. and the band
for Spring Frolies will be,
selected before school is out.

Taus Take Blood ns Tate Blood
Drive Second Time

Blood donations this spring
for the Davidson College Blood

last fall with a total of 370.
pints.

ATO had the highest per-
centage of membership giving
blood with 82%. The Sigma
Chis. Phi Delta, and Sig Eps
placed second, third,
fourth.

Since the ATOs also won in
the fall blood drive, they will
receive a plaque signifying the
highest percentage given for
the whole year.

The blood drive was under
the joint sponsorship of the In-
terfraternity Council and the
R.0.T.C. Department.

Final tabulation for the fra-
ternity contest is as follows:
Alpha Tau Omega .. 82%
Sigma Chi ......... . 1%
Phi Delta Theta 61%
Sigma Phi Epsilon 60%
Beta Theta Pi 54%
Kappa Sigma 51%
Pi Kappa Phi —_.. 49%

and:

Phi Gamma Delta .. 43%
Kappa Alpha .. _. .. 42%
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 39%

Pi Kappa Alpha ______. 27%
Alpha Theta Phi .......... 18%

SPACE FOR 200,000 BOOKS

$250,000 Library

Additi

By HOWARD

ion In Sight

PERSINGER

Davidsonian Staff Reporter

Plans are currently being completed for the con-
struction of a $250,000 addition to the Hugh A. and Jane
Drive increased 5 pints over ; Parks Grey Memorial Library.

D. Grier Martin, chairman of

la faculty committee responsible ‘ e .
'for the planning of the addi- iS experienced in both modern

tion, announced that the con-
struction of the new wing will

[begin sometime during mid-

summer, completion is expect-
ed by the fall of 1958.

It is estimated that the new
addition will provide over dou-
ble the amount of space for

books which means it will in- | the

clude storage space for 200,000
volumes.

The lobby space wil! also be
considerably increased, and the
number of carrels will be
tripled. (The library now has
27 carrels.)

The plans also include a large
smoking room and 5 seminars
to be placed in the basement.
A new and Jarger microfilm
room will also be added and
the complete building, old and
new, will be air conditioned.

The architect, A. G. Odell of
Charlotte, has done such work
as the Charlotte Coliseum,
Ovens Auditorium, and _ the

Charlotte Public Library. Odell.

and traditional styles.

Besides Odell. professional

advice has been sought from
O’Connor and Kilham, well-
tknown library builders from
iNew York. Dr. Stephan Me-
Carthy. director of the Cornell
library. is technical advisor for
construction.
In a recent meeting of the
faculty committee and techni-
cal advisors, students from the
literary societies and Publica-
tions Board were invited to go
over the proposed plans for
eonstruction and to submit
suggestions for improvement.

The addition, which is to be
constructed in the same style
as the present library, was made
possible by a gift from a North
Carolina foundation.

Serving on the faculty com-
mittee for the construction of
the wing are D. Grier Martin,
chmn., H. T. Lilly, T. S. Logan,
C. G. Davidson, and W. G Work-
man.
