WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

/
j

PAGE TWO

WILL YOU LIVE THROUGH
THIS WINTER?

Hundreds may not! They may die
in traffic accidents caused by

a “must” for campus or leisure activities

Ivey League Cotton Slacks

The most handsome . . . the longest-wearing casual slacks ever! Smooth polished

rain, snow or sleet.

Take special care!

Driving and walking are specially dangerous
in bad winter weather. Roads are slick and
visibility is poor.

cotton with slightly narrower leg, belted back and low-on-the-hips.
All points of strain are bor-teck reinforced . . . all inside seams
are over-sewn. Wonderfully washable, in classic black or

natural tan,

Over 40,000 men, women and children
were killed in traffic accidents last year
. +. Many in accidents caused by -
winter conditions.

A.93

No eclterations necessery ln mest secant,
becouse these slecke ere pro-culfedt

0 Cheek your brakes — Use them
carefully on slick roads. .
O Cheek your windshield wipers —
Get new ones if they streak.

OC Check your headlights — Have
them properly adjusted.

CO Cheek your tlres— Have good

tires and use tire chains when

needed on snow or ice.

DC Cheek your speed —Observe speed g.

limits and be extra careful of winter \ “S Sizes:
road conditions. | >

CI Cheek your distance—Stay
well behind the car ahead.

Weist eines 20, 30, 31,
32, 33, 4, 3, 3.
inseoms 29 02 BH

Support your local
Safety Organization

Inaist on strict enforcement of all traffic laws. Traffic DAVI DSON Ss AFETY

Drive safely and courteously. Observe speed limits
and warnine-signs. Where traffic laws are obeyed,
deaths go | ¥

teguiations work for you, not ageinst you. Where
waffic laws are tric

Sette an DOWN etly enforced and obeyed, cou NCIL

“Quit Your Skhiddin’” tells what you can do to
erevent winter traffic accidents. Write to: Dept. in cooperation with
. National Safety Council, 425 North Michigan The Advertising Council a

Avenue, Chicago 11, Ill. for this free booklet. The National Setuty Council

men’s furnishings, street floor

——— 1,
oe 7
a : ~~
&. . ~w» §=6They’re never too young for Red doctrine—or the truth!

Wholl tell them the truth— if you wont ?

Behind the fron Curtain, Europe's ca
tive people are groomed for Comma.
nism from the cradle. But even this
relentless indoctrination can not kdill
their will for freedom.

Today in satellite Europe youth is
turning against Communiam . . . and
this is the group on whom the Reds
counted heavily for blind support. With
the aid of truth from Radio Free
Europe and Free Europe Press, these
young people are determined to win

back their freedom. Their refusal to
knuckle under has never been stronger!

Recent events have battered Red
prestige, upset their timetable of en-
slavement, exposed the Communist
puppet regimes for what they really
are—brutal occupation powers.

But this is no time to ease up. The
need for truth from the free world has
never been greater... and truth is the
one thing the Iron Curtain can't shut
out. Keep it coming!

Support Radio Free Europe and Free Europe Press
with Truth Dollars to CRUSADE for FREEDOM

THE DAVIDSONIAN

e/o your local postmaster

Crosby Square “Dirty Buck”

The newest and most popular idea in buck-skin shoes for
men, An off-white color that needs little or no core. Soft,

pliable, comfortable. Black cushion crepe sole.
12.93

olso in white buck *_..13.98

Genuine Bostonian Moccasins

These handsome moccasins ore the “real thing.” Handsewn
front ond kick seam. Unlined for snug, sure fit in supple
leather. In black or brown.

sus6teiz £3.05

Sise 18 ....--~----------------------------- 14.98

men’s shoes, strect Heer

IVEY’S OF CHARLOTTE
