JULY 12.14% 7

qe y |)
oS id). CEVELOPRMENT

No 4 . PROWRAM

ae) The Summer Development Progran

L iIBPRARY of Davidson College is bringing many

.Tter threo rovisions is plens, chenges end imorovements to the face

the finel erchitecturcal dr-wings are of tne eamous. Dr. Grier Mcrtin, in

neéring comoiction for tao now cddi- a& recent interview, listed the plans

tion to the Groy lemoricl Liorery, that are now in the process of being
at date in the neor futurc,

carried out for this Summer Progrem.
bids will be roceived y tae College

1. Exst, “ost, and “atts dormi-~
for the constructéon of the new wing. corics are being stecam-clo. ned, this
Mr. 2 rtin has strted that he honos

ine one of the f cets of tne prosram
consruction will becin by Soot. -. oy rith wnica the studonts cre familicr.
tho first, end the eddition +1111 be 2. Tone exteriors of Watts and
comoleted by next summer. “ect dormitories htve veen pceinted,
Tho nev wing of the libreryv, lors |while the entirety of East has been
noodcd, will necessarily cllow more

rofurbished,
soace for books, ond more sp-ce. ill > Fire extinguishers have beon
be. dovoted to metericls, nublicetions, |placed iv 211 tne dormitories, follov-
etc., concernir~ Devidson Collere. ins studont reoucst,.

Mir. Ae Ge Odell is tho.contractod 4. Pire wells aro being construc-
architect for tho »vrojoc., and no is ted in the three aforementioned dorms,
boing assiatod by consult._nts ‘vom closinn the front and rocr stair wells
Now York.

off from tho hells, sinilcr to the
A .larrer lipr-ry will offer great-|ol-en found in New dormitory.
er opportunities to tho students, .as

5e Tho basement shower ocths ‘in
woll <5 adding to the vreatie of the Et ond “est dormitorics have been
colloge's vhysical plant.

tiled,
DANCE

6. A process know ¢s "pointing"
M
Bo meking nl-ons to attend the

-- replacing old and cracked mortar
Giong the stevs, columns, and comnices
Mid-Summor Frolics dance, to be hold -- is beings used on Chambers building.
Jul» 20 on the Prtio of the Drvid Ovons
Student Union! The Dence Comnittce

This is the first timc thir has been
done in thirty years. The ouilding

ls spendins; menv hours on dlanning,

end ctr ing this = ‘Seir, nd it shoulda

is 1so being stocmr-clocned,.
7e The Jorvoy Momorial langucge
well efford © si1le ovening for o11
who “tonde

leboratory is boing inet~lled in the
om
WSTACKS"

old Gurdrenglers Roum on the third
by Foaturo Hditoriclist H. P.

floor of Chambors. The lcb will be
coninoed with soundoroof booths and
+ e@lebor:.te syatom oF monitored tone
recorders. Thio will de a most vilu-
“blo csset to tao’ languoso deportments.
8. Tho fiold commonl: !mown 25
che "lover. drill ficld" 15 being ox-
“aded to meet tno roauirements of a
fullelongth soccer fiold, and tho dund
herp .2.t% the ond of the field is boing
romoved -- rinrllv.
9. . new pproaca green is being
constructod for the convenience of 211
olf ontnusicata.
Tne cdovelopmonts cnd improvoments
“roe oxpocted to be conploted by Aug. 30.

Unon vrrivin- D-vidcon you
peid a:5ill., You vp id covor] bill-,
in. fact. Cne perticuler “ill ta t
you remomoor tr.8 ¢..llod leundry bill,
which, jou vere assured, vould covor
your 1 undry " @2, clo iuing for tho
time sou ol-nnod to de i) Sunimer Schoo

“hore in (concord) cid that nono
G0?

For quito - ‘Low oy5, “Staest
hoo boon closcd. They heve bern echki
a vecation from loaundoring. fh. ons wit!)

i
