DAVID LAWRENCE

ANALYZES FOURTEENTH

AMENDMENT
(Page 2)

VOL. XLVI

=| Ch

Cunningham Dedicates Dorms,

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
“DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1957

re Aautdsontan

SOCCER TEAM PLAYS
HERE TOMORROW

(Page 3)

-NO. 7

Gives Yegree 10 Spencer ove

Davidson's

Sunday

Blue Laws

oc Sia

iad

Gas

Sale Forbidden

By LAURENS WALKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“If you want to know why we cannot sell gas on Sun-| : -
day, ask that feller up the road. He did it. No, I don’t] ' 4
care too much about the money, but I hate to see one

man run the town.”

Thus service station operator
Jim Pender expréssed his opin-
ion as to why there is no gas
sold on the Sabbath in the town
limits of Davidson.

The “feller up the road”, W.
H. Reid, owner and. operator of
Reid's Esso Service answered
this charge with “Don't ask
me. Ask the Town Council. They
did it, not me.”

COMMERCIAL RIVALRY

Thus we found out that even
the Town of Davidson has its
political skeletons in its admit-
tedly small closet, and that bit-
ter commercial rivalry flourish-
es between, at least, the filling
stations.

cruited a retired minister, a
Reverend Patterson, to circulate
a petition demanding that the
service stations be closed on
Sunday.

This was done about four
years ago, and it passed the
Council “before I knew any-
thing about it” continues Pen-
der.

Mr. Reid denys the whole
Story, but admits that he “would
just as soon close on Sunday.”

‘BEARS LOOKING INTO’

Members of the Town Council
when asked about the matter,
said they “didn't know much

Trustees, Visitors
View Ceremonies

By WILLIE THOMPSON
Davidsonian Staff Reporter
Dr. John R, Cunningham, acting in his former ca-
pacity as president of Davidson College. presided at the
annual fal! convocation this morning at 10:10 a.m.

He also conferred an honor- .
ary Doctor of Laws degree upon
Dr. J. Spencer Love of Burling-
‘ton Industries and participated
in the dedication of J. A. Can-
non and E. H. Little Halls. These
ceremonies highlighted the an-
nual meeting. of the Board of
Visitors.

degrec was to have been award.
ed at the Commencement exer-
cises last spring, but Love was
abroad at the time.

The dedication ceremony was | JES
condueted by Dr. J. McDowell
Richards, president of Columbia
Theological Seminary and pres-
ident of the Board of Trustees
of Davidson College. The two
halls are named for friends of
the college who have given it
devoted service.

Dr. W. T. Thompson, former
moderator of the General As-
sembly of the Presbyterian

The invocation was offered by
Dr. Warner Hall, pastor of the
Covenant. Presbyterian Church
in Charlotte. Dr. Cunningham,
as “President for the Day,”
recognized honored guests of
the college and made a short
address to the assembly. |

Cannon Hall shown above and Little Half (right)
were officially dedicated at ceremonies held this morning.

TO THE TRUSTEES

The Specter Of

Church, U. S., and trustee of,
(Continued On Back Page)

~~

He then conferred the honor-
ary degree upon Dr. Love. This

(An Editorial)

As the Trustees gathered here today, they found
the college operating in its usual excellent way. This

oo & ® they sdw. What they could not see, however, was how the
pas s, college felt.
NN The ostensible soundness of Davidson College belied

a deep felt concern for what we shall call the
of Increased Enrollment.”

a
z }
™“
Mea» te

J. R. CUNNINGHAM J. SPENCER LOVE

enrollment to one thousand -—

know her.

While there is no magic number that divides a small

OR.
. returns to college for
dedication ceremonies

. . .. Receives HonoraryDegree {ble limit past. which point the complexion and atmos-

now reached thal point. But the Trustees have ordered
the enrollment increased.

“SLOW” INCREASE

‘Trustees’ Decision
Wise’’---Hengeveld

that wish to come here. Davidson could not get any more
high level students even. if she wanted to.

And even now, as Dr. Spencer pointed out, the

“Specter

| first five issues put out -by tho
The present policy of the -Trustees—to raise the
is of deep and sincere
concern to many who love Davidson College as they now

college from a larger one. there is. however, an intangi-

phere of a small college begin to change, Davidson has

As Dr. Samuel Spencer's. analysis of the admissions
program proved. the fact is that Davidson is now getting
the absolute maximum number of top quality students

Dr. Cunningham, whose administration was responsible
for this progress, presided.

Davidsonian Receives

Increased Enrollment | All-American Rating

By BRUCE BROOKS
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

For the second semester in a row THE DAVIDSON.
IAN received the top rating of “All-American” given by
the Associated Collegiate Press in its semi-annual rating
service.

Issues of the paper judged |

for this rating were those pub. Per displays and is broken down
lished last semester when Jim | into the various individual de-

Batten was editor, and also the | Partments.
The overall.

appearance of
present. staff. the newspaper was praised.
Duane Andrews, the judge of
THE DAVIDSONIAN was.the class in which THE DAVID.
Judged in the class of célleges SONIAN was entered, called
with an enrollment of from! the treatment. of. copy “ a very
751 to 1250 students. Forty-' professional job."'
three such schools entered Andrews was especially en-
weekly newspapers. , thusiastic about DAVIDSONIAN
THE DAVIDSONIAN was one features and particularly the
o£ eight to ‘reecive the top. editorial page. He called the
honor rating. Last year’ was the’ features ° “imaginative, well writ-
first time in a number of years! !¢": amd extremely interesting”
that TITE DAVIDSONIAN had 20 ‘among the best I’ve seen.”
received this honor. Of the editorials Andrews
. «thought that they maintained
‘beautiful balance” and that the
-editorial page was the “Best
laid-out page if the paper.
Other areas which Andrews
thought particularly good were
balance. creativeness, the front

Judging is biased on the grade *
of coveraze, content, and phy-
sieal properties that a newspa-

about the thing. but thought it
Countless Davidsonians have| might bear looking into.”"

found out, to their chagrin, that

Registrar F. W. Hengeveld has given assurances
We couldn't find out who was/ that every effort will be made to see that grades come] the average to fill the present level of 850 students. Why

Homecoming To Be
November 22-23

college is forced to admit a few students who are below

, Page. and. the photography. THE
DAVIDSONIAN was judged at
least between very good and

it is impossible to buy gasoline
in the town limits of Davidson
on Sunday, We set out to find

out why.
Many years ago, the Town
Council passed a Blue Law

ordinance which forbade the
selling of anything on Sunday
except drugs, and allowed that
only during the hours when
church was not being held.

ORDINANCE MODIFIED

Years later, about 1930, The
Standard Oil Company per-
suaded the Council that sell-
ing gas was an “ox in the
ditch,” and the ordinance was
modified to allow the service
stations to remain open during
the non church hours.

This situation continued un-
til after the war. Most people
agree up to this point, but no
further.

Mr. Pender charges that Mr.

telling the truth. Actually, we
don’t care, but it's still a tong
way to walk to Mooresville for
gas.

The Town Council ought to
find out what “the thing’s
about,” and settle the feuds
so that Davidsonians can get
their ox or Chevrolet or what
not ou of the ditch on Sunday
mornings. —

Epidemic Postpones
Fall Blood Drive

The Fall Blood Drive, spon-
sored jointly by the IFC and
the ROTC Department, has
been postponed to a later date
because of the flu epidemic.

When re-scheduled, the drive
will operate under the same
conditions and with the same
rewards as before.

Reid did not want to do busi-|~

ness on Sunday. However, Stand-
ard Oil threatened to take
away his franchise if he did
not remain open.

Faced with this problem,
Pender asserts that Reid re-

Staples To Speak

Dr. George Staples, Minister
to Students at Davidson, will
speak at Vespers Sunday night
at 7:30.

,out at the scheduled time.

then, we ask, do the Trustees keep insisting on raising
Davidson's registrar said that|doubt that we will be able to}the number to one thousand? The students don’t want it
his office staff had been hard; make any increase next year.”| and most of the faculty prefer the present size.
hit by the flu. Also several| As to long-range growth the of- |
members of the faculty havej ficial said that the College will
not turned in their grades, pre- (Continued On Back Page)
sumably because of the -flu.
INCREASED ENROLLMENT
The luncheon meeting with)
the school official centered. ‘.
largely around the question of, ‘
increased enroliment. “We must
meet the demands of a. grow-
ing student population if Da-
vidson College is to continue};
to serve the church.”
Hengeveld went on to add
that the “decision by the trus-
tees was a wise one.” If we
have the facilities and the staff,
the College can do just as good
job with a larger group as it|;
can with 850 students. The
Trustees have said that any in-
crease must come only with an
increase in facilities.

RATE OF GROWTH
Querries about the probable
rate of growth of the college
brought the comment that “It's
going to be awfully slow. I!

Could the real motive be to put Davidson College on
a competitive basis in big-time athletics?

We are proud of Davidson College as she now is.
Her name and reputation is'synonomous with superior
academic standards and true Christian character.

1 In reality, the heritage of Davidson as a small col-
lege is a real luxury. Where else can a student from the
southeast find a small, private, highly endowed, first-
rate college? The fact is that Davidson is one of the few
top-notch small colleges in the South.

Instead of enlargement, therefore, let us go forward

Ma | by consolidating what we already have. Let us raise even

j{higher the standards on which Davidson has gained her
reputation.

Increased enrollment will not only change the com-
iplexion of the college, but will also result in lower
standards—based on the quality of students that are cur-
rently applying for admission.

F. W. HENGEVELD
.. College Registrar meets
the press |

Trustees, we ask you to reconsider this plan for en-
larging Davidson. Let us not lay waste in a day what
has taken generations to build. to build...

excellent on every aspect that
A soccer game with Warren | was graded. ;
Wilson and a concert by Claude! Besides Jim Batten who
Thornhill and his Orchestra. | edited last year’s DAVIDSON.
along with the two dances, will: IAN, other staff members were
highlight Homecoming Week-: Lloyd Chapin, front and ‘back
end. It has been re-scheduled pages. John Trask, editorial
for November 22-23, announced | page, Jéhn Johnston, sports
Bob Jones, IFC president, today.! page, and Bil! Bondurant, fea-
There will be no classes on; tures.
Saturday. Nov. 23, and the soc-; College newspapers are grad-
cer game will be held in. the | ed after the end of each semes-
early afternoon, followed by the! ter. and the rating for the cur-
concert in Chambers’ Auditori-|rent semester will not be re

um. leased until next spring:
been lost because Homecoming

8
was postponed, but the mine Racial Issue
amount has not been determined | T e
o Be Discussed

yet. The money for the flowers
Five students from Johnson

has been completely forfeited.

According to Jones. “WelC. Smith University will appear
can't determine the loss untillon a panel, to discuss their
the Musicians’ Union rules on|views on the NAACP and the
the orchestra. contract. We didi way that the integration pro-
lose money. and because of gram is being carried out.
that we'll have to raise the| This wilt be at a regular meet-
price of dance _ tickets over ing of the Westminster Fellow-
what it would have been. This: ship. Sunday night after Ves-
will probably not be an increase | pers, in the student lounge of
of over one dollar.” the college church.

Some money has definitely

Five Seniors Get Bids To Phi Beta Kappa In Annual Fall Election

It was learned yesterday that five members

of the senior class have
Beta Kappa.

been issued bids to Phi

The five are Lloyd W. Chapin, John C. Bern-
hardt, Edward T. Stewart, William L. Pomeroy,

and Henderson M. Rourk.

Lloyd Chapin, a Baker Scholar from Atlanta.
Georgia, is president of the YMCA, president of
Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity, and member of

Omicron Delta Kappa. He

is pre-ministerial.

John Bernhardt, another Baker Scholar, from

(ono woe

Ye
=
} a c a2
g ik e t
CHAPIN BERNHARDT STEWART POMEROY ROURK

the student body. Bernhardt is a member of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, and is a Kappa Sig.

Lenoir, North Carolina, is president of the senior
class and was formerly second vice-president of

Ed Stewart of Kirkwood. Missouri, is the first
man at Davidson to be awarded a Burlington Indus-
trial Scholarship. He is a member of Phi Delta
Theta Fraternity and is pre-med.

Bill Pomeroy. president of Kappa Alpha Order,
is from Waycross. Georgia. He is president of the
Honorary Fraternity Council, and AED medical
fraternity. Pomeroy, too, is pre-med.

Henderson Rourk from Shallotte, North Caro-
lina, is vice-president of Sigma Phi Epsilon Fra-
ternity. Rourk is studying medicine.
