Davidson College

Davidson College is a way of life
based on the things of the mind
tempered by manners and morality.

—Chaimers G. Davidson

Ch

VOL. XLVI _

ye Havuidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1957

Christmas Vacation:

Wednesday,
Friday, January 3, at 8:20 a.m.

December 18 to

NO. 11

Council Clarifies Alcohol ule

s s s e

s

IFC, Bob Jones announced
EARLIER RUSH WEEK

The 1958 Rush Week will be-
gin in the middle of Freshman

will continue throughout the re-
mainder of that week.

Since the semester does not
begin until Wednesday, the
rushing activities wiil only coin-

On Tuesday the faculty
passed the following recom-
mendation of the commit-
tee on fraternities:

‘That the tnterfraternity
Council be permitted to set
the dates of Rush Week for
noon of the Monday imme-
diately preceding the first
day of classes in September

| through Saturday of that
{ same week.

Lord Have Mercy
Upon Us |

persisted in matters pertain-
ing to fraternity life on the
javidson campus.”

Furthermore, that the
fraternities to extend from
1.F.C. be commended for
their efforts to solve same
of the problems that have

The river of Christmas shoppers filled the streets
and flooded the stores.

“God, these crowds are terrible. Why do they gotta: hth
give gifts on Christmas anyway? You'd think there’d be | cide with t e The fiest part of
something else better to do. .Rush Week will consist of only

“Oh, ‘scuse me’ mister. Damn clumsy tramp,” she!nine rush dates instead of
sniped, and pushed on.

eleven.
And the river flowed.

;method of confirmation.

Fraternities Booted in
Confirmation Of Dates

Rush Week will begin one week later next year, and
confirmation will be directly between freshmen and the F

tonight.

tact freshmen during the con- © °%

firmation period.

Each. freshman will confirm ¢—
Orientation. This period nor-;his own dates by giving his °
mally begins on a Thursday. Be- schedule directly to the IFC.
ginning on the first Monday! The members of’ this group will
night of Orientation. Rush Weck|then post the rush dates with

individual rush chairmen.
SEVERAL CHANGES DUE

Jones commented that this
may just be the first of several

| changes. The question of sum-
“mer rush letters and fraternity

visitations in the freshmen.
dormitories is also under con-
sideration for a change. |

He said that later in the te
all the rush chairmen might b
called together for a consulta: |
tion about rushing activity. |

The IFC is endeavoring this |
year te evaluate many of the,
facets of fraternity life at Da-,
vidson. The members will be!
discussing Hell Week in their |
January meeting.

Post Office
Advances

Davidson's new post office is
rapidly nearing completion. The
new building, located on Main.
Street facing the campus, is
scheduled for use carly next
year, probably in February.

The brick structure. of a'style:
similar to campus _ buildings,
will have approximately 3744

There will definitely be a new | rquare feet of floor space. It is. then agreement, is not always unanimous.
The | being built at a cost. of $50,000

“Hey, Marge! You know, sometimes I wonder why Fraternities will in no way con-| >Y the college and will be leased

we gotta do all this, but then what you gotta do you:
gotta do. Well, see you later, if I live through this.

“Oops, pardon me.” As she stepped around him, she
muttered, “Well, I guess he can get up by himself. Any-
way I haven’t got time.”

And the current didn’t ebb.
“Wish to heck you could wait until after Christmas:

(Concert Band
Appears Tonight

Band under the baton of J.

to do this stuff. Boy, look at the crowds you'd miss. These |r -.nitin west will present its/that. if the lease is not re-.definite step toward adopting a new rule that is in step.

people could crucify a man. . . initial program of the year at
“Say, wine cups at half price. I'd better look into g-15 p.m, tonight in the ball-
‘room of the College Union.

that.

to the government for a ten-
year period.

Facilities -will include com-
plete air-conditioning and the,
most modern equipment for,
postal workers. Parking space |
and a through-driveway will be.

The Davidson College Concert | provided.

The building is designed so

newed or there is a special need,
it may be put to other use by
the college.

The Barger Construction Com. -

“Watch out there, you, you're in the way. Some;There is no admission charge pany of Mooresville, is the con.)

guys just don’t know the score,” he complained as he and the public is invited.
shoved his way forward.

But there were eddies.

“You know, Ma, I can’t stand to see a bum walking
around downtown. There's people's got to get stuff done.
quick, and this man looked like he had all the time in
the world.

“I feel kinda sorry for him. Probably don’t many
people pay him much attention, specially this time of
year. What's for dinner?”

But the main flow surges on.

“Mary, get that so-and-so away from here. He's trying

to keep the custom
with somebody like that standing around.
“Anyway, he scares me.

In view of the current trend!

think there are arguments in
ifavor of a more strict rule.”

(Continued On Page Four)

his belief that the Student Coun-!

ing to enforce it.
STUDENT SUGGESTION

the fact that at least one stu-
dent has made the definite sug-

only. But, as se added, it would
be only a matter of time before
this policy would lead to drink-
ing in the dormitories.

bers of

ber cited the idea presented in
the
, (monthly, publication of

Last Friday, the girls from Phi Mu Sorority at Queens |“under the influence”
College washed cars here to make money for their new
sorority houses. Pictured above are three girls washing Bill

Pomeroy’s Plymouth in front of the Kappa Alpha house.

to the campus

Pietenpol Views
Drinking Problem

Acting-President of the College, C. J. Pietenpol, can we adopt a new policy that enjoys student support.
stated that he is interested in hearing all sides viewed/respect, and above all, enforcement.
in th controversy over the so-called “drinking rule.” ere

Dr. Pietenpol asked the mem-. didn't.”
the DAVIDSONIAN | been selected by that time, it
staff to express their opinions} will probably be June before
on the .matter. One staff mem-; any announcement will be made.

STUDENT CHRISTIAN | by
the: Scholarships he commented to
- i A a | CA.) that would remove the|the effect that some organiza-
clause | tion will. probably help out with |
and permit a student to return: new scholarships though prob-

legally after, ably not to the extent of equal-/t
drinking, but keep him under; ing the Bakers. |

tractor for the post office.

ers away. We can’t sell these shirts toward liberalization of the. rule| the Student Body Regulations
the Dean commented that “ I. regarding boisterous conduct.

It was pointed. out by the

Dean that this too might create
Dr. Pietenpol also emphasized problems of interpretation, and
questioned
{cil should not take any definite|further about it. One member
stand unless the student body|stated that the advantage of
is in sympathy with it and will-|this set-up would be that
would “penalize a boy for the
result of his actions and not
The Dean called attention to| the cause.”

staff members

it

COLLEGE PROBLEMS
Turning to other school prob-

gestion to him that drinking be|lems, Dr. Pietenpol announced | is the Share Our Surplus Plan
allowed in the fraternity houses/a mécting of the Board of Trus-| often
tees in February. About this|Thursday night the gift fund!
meeting he added, “I hope they| committee reported that $1286'
have a new president.
wouldn’t be surprised if they| through pledges or money.

If no President has!

On the matter of void created |
the lapse of the Baker:
ti

‘tion 3 of Article 1X.

Gift Fund, reports that the student response to this
year's gift fund project has been good.

but I} has

$4,000 for the project of which than any other plan.
$3,500 would come from the:
student body.
i being solicited from members 200 pounds of food for the over-
of the faculty and administra- seas relief.

Hungarian family, $3,600 was emphasize that many times in
collected.

Missions of

t

The Student Council,

of the “drinking rule.”

“inadequate,”

The clarifi¢ation, as ac-
cepted reads: The Student
Council shall accept as
“being under tha influence
of alcoholic liquors” any.
student evidencing any de-
gree of visible loss of senses
‘beyond this point: showing
symptoms of nausea, arti-
fically induced fatigue, in-
coherent speech, action
which is out of character
with reason, and which
would logically bear the re-
proach of the Trustees of
this college—one or more of
which are after consumption
of alcoholic liquors.

CLEARER POLICY

The DAVIDSONIAN favors an alcohol-free campus. Smyth said it is the hope of
the Council that this new inter-

'We are adamantly opposed to any move that would allow ‘pretation of “under the in:
' either the possession or the consumption of alcohol on _ fluence of alcohol” will be more
the Davidson campus. We firmly believe that one of the clearly defined in the minds of
fundamental strengths of Davidson College is her tradi- the Student Council and student
tional concern for moral values. beady. a discussi luated
, . . ssion punctuate

But there is another side to the question. What about, with comments by Councit mem-
the student who obeys the alcohol-free campus rule, but ! ibers Stuart, Bondurant, and
who returns to the campus “under the influence.” Herein Livingston of “Where do, we

lies the present problem. .stand?", “What are we after?”
and “What ure we trying to

The real core of the current discussion stems from ,do?”, the Council attempted to
the council’s traditional failure to define satisfactorily decide what, if any action was
‘the term “under the influence.” This phrase in the stu-.needed to make a “drinking
dent body constitution has been interpreted in many|"le” more realistic and more
ways—-from ‘‘on the breath” to ‘‘unconsciousness.” enforceable

What has been happening (including this year) is’ St ] t

SMYTH
President Student Body

Keep Alcohol Off Campus
But Let Students Return

(An editorial)

JONES
President IFC

Sean Oe

that each year the new student council announces its
own particular interpretation of the drinking rule. Even

Until the council can stand united on this subject.
the effectiveness of the present rule suffers. In reality,
fegardless of what interpretation the council or faculty
places on any rule, if the enforcing agent is not whole-
heartedly in favor of it, then the rule, in effect. is already
abolished.

Because of this varying feeling among council
members, plus the desire of the students to make the rule!
more realistic, we suggest that the council take some:

1.
and interpretation?
24% yes (but 52% of

with what is actually happening. 31% é
The DAVIDSONIAN, therefore, favors changing the it on campus.
‘present rule to permit students to return legally to the campus.
campus after they have been drinking regardless of their 29%
condition. We assume strict and unflinching enforcement!
by the council and the college of the student body regula- 26%
j tions regarding good behavior on the campus. house only
To achieve this end. the DAVIDSONIAN proposes 7% no restrictions.
that the student council itself submit to the student, body 7% other (specify) see

an amendment to the constitution that would delete Sec. 3. What is your attitude

If ever each individual student had cause to express

his opinion, certainly now is the time. Only in this way tt
off.

' $1,286 COLLECTED
‘Students Respond
To Annual Gift Project

Ken Forester, Chairman of the Davidson College

14% other (specify) see
4.

5. Do you drink?
65% yes
35% no

Davidson campus?
61% no

* ¢ *

This year's gift fund project
Church and was then chosen by -
the students as their annual gift |
fund project.

Of the several S.0.S. plans the.
either one with which Davidson is as-|the upper class student body,

sociated is the best as it gives|Pproblem.

referred to as SOS.

been _ solicited

The committee hopes to raise; more pounds of food per dollar!

Only one American dollar is;

The remainder needed to provide more. than
P | morality by the mile—evasive:

exist.”

The committee would like to’ In question 2 for the

ion. For last year's project, the

‘history when hungry people
This year's project was ob-/have had a choice between food :

Monday night,
clarification, drawn up by Councilman Bill Bondurant,
This action was taken despite.
Bondurant’s tacit admittance that the clarification was
and wouldn't solve the problem.

The answers to the ‘“no"
{centered around the vagueness of the present rule, and
{the unrealist approach to the subject.

ie. a
=arlier

Lists Symptoms Of

‘Under The Influence’

accepted a

NEEDS CAREFUL
THOUGHT

President Smyth felt that this
was a matter which called for
diseussion and careful thought.
He pointed out the probable re-
Action of the Faculty and Trus-
tees to any rule change. He
further insisted that the Coun-
cil should take no action until
it felt that the Student Body
was- dissatisfied with the cule
as it now stands.

Bill Bondurant expressed his
opinion that the fault of the
present rule lay in the Coun-
cil’s laxity of enforcement. He
suggested that the Council “re-
new its oath to support the Con-
stitution.” :

Many members of the Coun-
cil expressed interest in a DA-
VIDSONIAN poll on the issue
as a means of determining the
opinion of the Student. Body.

Though no official action was
taken on the possibility of
changing the rule, the discus-
sion of the subject indicated
that the Council members were
interested. in the possibility of a
change, but felt any action on
their part at, the present time
would be premature.

-Absent from the mecting were
Councilmen Bright, Huffaker
Kuykendall, and Ferguson.

Polled

ant

On Drinking Rule

Are’ you satisfied with the present drinking rule

these thought alcohol

should be allowed in automobiles)
76% no (Why?—see below)
2. What is your attitude toward allowing students
lo have alcohol on the Davidson campus?
absolutely forbidden to possess or to drink

may keep alcohol in automobile or other
place, but not allowed to drink it on the
may have it and drink it in the fraternity

below
toward permitting students

to return to campus after they have been drinking?
13% absolutely forbidden to return until all the
effects of alcohol have completely worn

61% may return if the student goes directly to
his room and stays there until all the ef-
fects of alcohol have worn off.

12% may return to campus in any condition
without any restrictions.

below

Do you have any suggestions for a workable and
{clearly defined rul? If so, what is it? see below

6. Have you ever kept alcoholic beverages on the

e e

By JIM MORRIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer
This week 351 upperclassmen, representing 58% of

were polled on the aicohol
section of question 1 all

“Hypocritical;
what we don’t see doesn’t

“other (specify)”, many

answered that alcohol should not be allowed in the
dormitories, but provisions should be made for keeping

tainéd from the Board of World’ and freedom they have chosen|it in automobiles or other containers. A typical answer

the Presbyterian food.

(Continued On Page Four)
