FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants

The Wildcats’ 71 to 55 victory over VPI last Saturday
night was a brilliant finish to the locals’ regular basketball
season.

It was a high tribute to the fighting spirit of the team
which, despite depressing periods in the season, would not
hold a pessimistic view. They maintained a faith in their own
ability that earned an undisputed tourney berth, a berth
that everyone else had already seeded to George Washington.

POINT-PICKERS
On two ocasions in the final weeks when the game was
crucial, they produced scores that amazed the point-pickers.
First they upset favored Citadel 60-57, but the crowning
event came when they walloped the number three team in
the conference, VPI, by 16 points, a team that had beaten
them previously by a twenty point spread.

Commenting on the Tech game, a thoroughly thrilled

Coach Tom Scott said that there were several minor things}
the big thing, the/

that contributed to the win, but “.. -:.
really important one, was that our boys just wanted to win
more than theirs did. We were excited and eager; every boy

contributed.”
FOUR OVER TEN

A look at the statistics verifies Scott’s statement. Sea-|

sons averages show that Semi Mintz with a 17.7 points-per-
game average, Dave Hollingsworth with 13.0 and Dick Weeks
with 11.8 have been carrying the heavy load in the scoring
department; but on that night, of the five regulars only
Weeks, who was held out much of the time because of four
fouls, failed to score in the double figures.

Surveying the final records reveals, to no one’s sur-
prise, that Mintz was high man for the season with 469
points. Hollingsworth and Weeks were close together
for the next two positions with 336 and 307 respectively.

In the closing games Mintz, who ranked 17th in the
nation for free-throw percentages on the last NCAA release,
fell below the .800 mark to .799. The confident sophomore
has a talent for being fouled; he collected 204, almost twice
as many as any other member of the squad. His 32 points
against Pennsylvania was also an individual high mark.

TWO-POST
In the Citadel game, Coach Scott unveiled a new
offense, a two-post system with two men playing wide
to the sides of the basket and the three remaining men
playing deep in a general line paralleling the ends of
the court.

Since there is no offensive player in the center near
the foul line, the defense is forced to spread out and leave
that area open and vulnerable to driving lay-ups.

Scott would not heavily credit the late season surge to
the new system but did feel that the increased number of
optional plays made the squad more effective. It makes
possible the exploitation of opponents whose center and
forwards are weak defensively.

Conference tournament officials two weeks ago did not
think that Davidson could make the event and consequently
selected a queen to sponsor George Washington. They then
blundered into sending that information to the local sports

TEAM GETS THREE SECONDS

Senior streak Tommy River synched home first in the
100 yard freestyle to give the Wildcat swimmers an individual
crown in the ‘Southern Conference Meet held in Charleston
last Friday and Saturday. Rivers’ winning time was 53.8
seconds, four-tenths of a second better than his old school
record.

Tommy aiso pulled down a
fourth in the 50 yard freestyle to
grab top scoring honors for the
"Cats.

Though finishing fifth behind
VPI, VMI, W&L and the Citadel,
Davidson showed signs of strength
in copping three seconds. John
Scott, a surprising freshman,
stroked in behind Fox of Washing-
ton and Lee in the 200 yard but-| ont. Basil Sharp, outstanding all
terfly. Coach George Thompson year, was nosed out by Blank of |
will be relying heavily on John|w ong 1 Basil, hampered by a|
next year. punctured eardrum, missed five |
days of workouts just prior to the |
meet. The departure of Sharp, a!
senior, will leave Coach Thomp-|
son with the task of filling his
shoes.

Thompson has announced four}

first-time letter winners. They|
pes: Bob Wrens, Jolie Soot, Joo reshman Benson Runs
In Top Quarterback Slot

Bell and Bob Jones. Other letter
By BILL GRAMLEY
set of linemen. One of ‘the most

men were Tom Rivers, John Ed-
wards, Billy Carrell, Basil Sharp,
“That freshman, Benson, ‘ consistent ballplayers on the
ya ery from what he was a month team, Bill Price, is sharp as ever

The steady, ever reliable
John Edwards, a senior from
Rocky Mt., N. C., snared sec-
ond place in his specialty. the
200 yard breast-stroke. Ed-
ward's time of 2:38.2 clipped
2.7 seconds off the school
record which he set last year.

The ‘Cats other second place
finish was in the diving depart-

SIX MEMBERS of the Wildcat basketball delegation paused
just long enough on Wednesday morning to get their picture
taken as they began their journey to the Southern Conference
tournament in Richmond, Va. From left to right are manager Bill
Pitzer, guard Bill Ferguson, guard Sonny Ferguson, center Bud
uater and guard Dave r

|Fritz Russell and John Winfrey.

TOM RIVERS

| backs there is a fairly experienced

is

FIVE AND FIVE RECORD

| ago,’ says Coach Dole in com-} at the snap-back spot. On his heels
menting about his southpaw is up-and-coming Joel Spraggins, a
|quarterback’s improvement dur transplanted guard

jing the Spring Drills. It was an-) Craig Wall is his usual. destrue

a | other indication that Charley iy. Self at end along with Jim
| “Take Charge” Benson 18 C4Pl-| pigomfield, George Hart, and
|talizing on his bid for the chief). :10y smith. Alex Porter, a
| signal-calling job newcomer, also shows plenty of
By BOBBY PAGE His current arch rival is sophO-| promise as a flankman.
|more Tom Cutting whose bad knee BIGGERS
De :

Wrestling coach Charlie Parker enters Davidson in the | Keeps him: from: peak pertore|” Paul Bless bes shows Gi
Southern Conference tournament today at VMI with three} ance. Benson will have to face an-| most improvement at the tackle
veterans and three inexperienced grapplers to vie for honors | other sophomore, Sam MeGuirt position, while guards Dale Gram-
in the six team affair. | who is now injured, when the fall Jey, “Roundy” Stancil, Dave Me-

[sessions start. |Lain, and Little Howard continue
to do their important but often

in the unnoticed jobs.

Defending champion and; weight division.
tourney favorite is VPI, while the; pave Fagg will sweat off ten) BACKFIELD
host team, VMI, claims the best) pounds and compete in the 177) Another bright spot a a
odds to maintain their runner-up | Ib. class, and Harold Westervelt) young backfield is the “bowl ‘em| Despite six injured players and
position. West Virginia, Washing- |will also drop one division to 157) lover” . running John Heath) other absentees, and a mess of

ton and Lee, The Citadel and Da- | jpg. West, a quiet determined | bad weather, the practices have
vidson are the other four en- freshman from He has! been highly spirited. Occasionally

of
but
Alabama.

trants. COLEMAN OUT been giving Ralph Setzler and)the boys even get into a serap,
FIVE AND FIVE George Rhyne, 167 pounds, com- | “Chug” Francis a run for their/but Coach Dole only asks that
Brownie Thurmond, a/they save it for the Citadel next

Last week the Cats evened their) pletes the slate of six entries in | money.

West Virginia Ov
Cat Cagers In Tou

| were

Favored Mountaineers

Win 71-51 In Richmond

By GEORGE RAMSEY

The Mountaineers of West Virginia were too much for
eighth-ranked Davidson as they overpowered the Cats 71 to
51 in the first round of the Southern Conference Tournament.
West. Virginia, lead by junior
guard Don Vincent with 22 points,
ran up a safe margin in the early
minutes of the game and then
satisfied to maintain that
lead of about twenty points. Both
teams scored thirty points in the
second half.
Hollingsworth was top man for
the ‘Cats with 17 markers. Coach
Scott played all twelve of his men
making the trip.

INTO TOURNAMENT
Davidson reached the conference
tournament by virtue of a late
season drive, culminating in a 71-
55 upset victory over VPI last
Saturday. night. The win, which

Gobbler’s back and combined with
the offensive accuracy of guard
Semi Mintz and forward Dave Hol-
lingsworth to push Davidson to
the finish line ahead of the Tech-
men.

After winning but two of their
first fourteen games, a_ period
which saw them bow in defeat
thirteen consecutive times, the
Wildcats came alive to capture
five of their last ten encounters.
Contributing greatly to the David-
son cause in the homestretch were
Mintz, Hollingsworth, and Captain
Dick Weeks.

ALL SOUTHERN
Mintz, who was recently named

clinched a berth for the 'Cats|,, the Ailsouthern Conference
see bee — = ~~ second team, continued the play
‘ate canes. i = aps their) which earned him the all-star
: ; ee ee plaudits. Hollingsworth's rebound-
Behind 34-36 at halftime, coach ing provided the Wildeats with
Tom Scott's boys stormed back the necessary strength under the
in the final twenty minutes, tak- beans. ac te euled down an

tha teh te ets avrgy rebounds per gue
. : y Weeks, the pint-sized guard,

see-sawed back and forth for half
the period.

MAN-TO-MAN
A tight man-to-man defense
proved the straw that broke the

played the best ball of his ca-
reer during this period, his out-
standing performance being a 24-
point showing in the 60-57 victory
over The Citadel two weeks ago

Sigma Chis Victorious
In Basketball Battle

The Sigma Chis rolled by the;take a 51 to 30 decision. A loss
Sig Eps 47 to 41 Tuesday night!to the KA’s the day before kept

to close their season with a 10-1) the SAE’s out of third place, how-
record and capture the interfra-| ever.
terpity basketball title. Lead by Hunter Warlick’s. 12

After squeezing by the Betas,
46 to 44, the ATO's took posses-

points, the Sig Eps put up a good
fight before losing to the Sigma

three losses, Milton Gee, Harold| with an_ illness,
Westervelt, Richardson King, and rated as one of the tourney’s fa-|

but would have| seasoned experience to the show.

ROOMMATES

Dave Warden, who likes defense |

the Betas.

The SAE’s ran rough-shod over}

Dave Fagg.

vorites.

season’s mark at five wins and the eight divisions. Parker feels | Georgia state 440 sprint champion, | fall sion of second place. The Taus led|Chi's, 47 to 41. Baker had 15
five losses by downing Washing-| that Fagg and Westervelt, by mov-|is trying hard to keep pace with | — een during most of the game with | points for the winners

ton and Lee for the first time in| ing down one unit, will have an West. Charlie Benson and Kim Kimball In two other games, the ATO's
six years, 15-11. Wins were taken! | Opportunity of earning oor Within all this struggle there) pacing the winners with 12 points| defeated the Pi Kapps 52 to 26,
by Pete Coleman, who wound up crowns. Coleman, the team’s nu- only one veteran halfback,| each. Both Henry Massey and Dale|and the Phi Gams dropped a 50
the season with seven wins andjcleus all season, will be sidelined ‘ae dster Paul Barbee, to add Gramley fired in 12 markers for| to 44 contest to the Sig Eps. West

was top man for the SPE’s with

18 markers.

|
» a good, |

Waller Taylor will be wrestling | Of the teams competing in the| (“I guess I'd. rather make
load |

for his second time this year in'two-day marathon, the Cats have | hard tackle.) is sharing the
the 137 Ib. class as will Charley | defeated Washington and Lee and | at fullback with: his fellow  bull-|

office.

Lampley in the 147 Ib. class. It' Citadel while losing to VPI and running roommate, Dave MeCul-
will be the first match for Jim) VMI. Westervelt has not lost a/lough
Hodges, who will be in the heavy-| match in conference engagements.; Up in front of the atoning

You. smoke refreshed

e rich tobacco taste
«most modern filter

BILL PRICE

Gridders Elect Price
ge

For 1957,
agg Is Alternate

Davidson football squad

...al-Lnew Salem

Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobace«

» Company.

Fagg
selected center Bill Price to cap-
tain them during the 1957 season
and chose tackle Dave Fagg as al-
ternate captain.

Price; a rugged line backer,
lettered his freshman year and
has been seeing sixty minutes of
action in many games since then.
The six foot, two inch Junior is
{from Fayetteville, N. €. Coach
|Dole once experimented with us-
ling him as an end but found him
| much too valuable to the middle

j of the line.

| Fagg, also a rising Senior, is
lanother member of last year's
lfierce forward wall. The 200
pound tackle is a mainstay of
the Cat's line.
LF Basketball
Standings
Standing through Tuesday:
WON LOST
|Sigma Chi 10 1
ATO 8 2
Beta 7 3
Kappa Sig 6 3
Phi Delt .. 6 3
‘Think of » Spring breese blowing over fresh, green grass and you'll have a SAE 6 4
‘good idea how refreshing all-new SaLem Cigarettes taste. The freshest taste Sig Ep x «@
in cigarettes flows through SaLem’s pure white filter. Rich tobacco taste with < Gam a. 4
bia A 3 6
new surprise softness ...menthol-fresh comfort. Try SALEM — you'll love ‘em. © in .
Pika 1 9
Salem refreshes your taste cc 0 9

a crumbling Kappa Sig team to! Results of recent games:
Field Goals Free Throws Points
Games Scored At. Scored Pct. No. Avg.
Lede, Pi Kapp 8 56 44 «(34 773 146 183
Brewer, Kappa Sig 11 89 35 21 ~~ .600 199 181
Lewis, ATO 9 51 65 48 739 150 15.5
Killian, Sigma Chi 10 60 32 20 625 140 14.0 .
Brooks, Pika 10 60 2 15. 518 135 13.5
Massey, Beta 10 50 53 34 «641 134 13.4
Powell, SAE 7 36 a 17 «| «78 89 12.7
Mitchem, ATO 12 69 2: 610.416 148 12.3
Bradford, SAE 9 47 24° «13~—~=C<«*SSAA 107 +119
Shepard, Kap Sig 10 57 7 3. 439 1 'y ime 2 Sy 3
Comer, Phi Gam 10 ° 46 28 #19 678 111 11.1
6 28 1S i). ee oe Ha

West, Sig Ep

Two weeks and Spring will have arrived. Even
now, we have a wide selection of good looking
Suits, Sport Coats, Slacks, Walking Shorts, etc.,
for the warm season. Wander down when you
have some leisure time and enjoy yourself look-
ing through these. We shall be glad to advise
you on your Spring-Summer wardrobe.

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C

&
é

