PAGE FOUR

COP LINKER
Philosophy over the coffee cups

“THEY NEVER LEARN”

Bushes, Cars Give Cop
Double Weekend Duty

Cop Linker’s troubles never end. “The college has got
me doing double duty now. It looks like they have planted all
these bushes around the campus just for the guys who don’t
have cars,” Cop said in one of his bull sessions.

“There’s nothing new here on .
the campus though,” Cop added.{his gruff, yet kindly voice.
“Boys always think they are doing! But, if you have not met Cop
something different. but I've seen before. this weekend is not the
all their tricks before.” Cop al- preferred time to do it.
ways likes to philosephize a little. | -

“E the b the same. The
names are different. but the boys Hometown Violinis
8
Featured In Recital

are the same.”
Alice Keith Pfohl. violinist, and

TWO BOYS CAUGHT

Cop told this story about two
boys whom he caught during Mid.
winters last year on the lower drill,
field.

When the night had gotten
colder, one of them took his date
back up to the car where they:
went to sleep. Cop gave them a
rather rude awakening with the.

be presented in a joint recital in

‘Monday. The progarm is sponsored
by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity
of America.

The talented young. artist is a

Louise Nelson Phohl, pianist, will

' Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m..

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SEMESTER AVERAGES
Dr. Spencer Records 26
Frosh Surpassing 2.5

Twenty-six freshman had B-plus or better averages at
the end of the first semester, according to Dean S. R. Spencer,
Jr. The twenty-six and their averages are as follows:

* FRESHMEN WITH
B-PLUS AVERAGES Scabbard & Blade
Fires In Rifle Meet

First Semester — 1956-57

Avinger, R L., Jr. 2.56

Baggett, L. W. 2.75 Scabbard. and Blade met at 7
Bell. J. N. 2.91 jo’clock Tuesday night in the
Boyce, W. M. 2.04 |R.O.T.C. Department.

Bracy, A. H. 2.50 Firing of the national Scabbard
Davis, C. F. 2.65 | and Blade rifle meet was discussed.
Edmunds, L. N. Jr., 2.53 |The Davidson company fired in
Kellog. P. J. 2.58 |this meet yesterday.

Kim, S. K. 2.53 The group also discussed selec-
Lane, F. C. 2.58 |tion of new members for second
Livingston, R. E. 2.94 |semester, and tapping ceremonies
McCarty, D. S., Jr. 2.75 | were tenatively set for late March.
MacKay, A. F. — 2.59

Meyer, L. K. —.. 2.59 H k T ll

Morrison, R. W. Jr. 2.96 ocSa e S

Owens, J. T. 2.50 (Continued From Page One)
Price, T. B. 2.86 |for my family was to move them to
Rhyne, G. N. 2.53 |the cellar. We spent most of the
Richards, W. J. 2.50 |day carrying food and clothing
Riggs, L. W. _.. 2.58 |down into the large room under
Robinson. D. W., Jr. 3.06 jthe building.

Smith, R. C. . 2.56 In the meantime the Rebels had
Stuart. W. D., IN 3.09 |found a leader in Pal Maleter.
Warden. D. R. 2.69 |Maleter had joined revolting Hun-
Wearn, J. H. 2.86 |garian soldiers in their barracks
Wright, T. P. 2.86 |and was guiding the revolution

-|from there. The Revolt was be-
ginning to “snowball.” Hungarian
soldiers were coming from all areas

Wright, TP 2.88
College Displays A

4 8 to join th bels in Bud t, and
Exhibitions In Union |cvcn the Russians ‘were giving

Two art exhibitions being cir-|tanks and artillery pieces to the

Jeulated by the North Carolina revolutionists.

State Art Circuit are now being| Early the next morning, the
‘shown at Davidson. word came that we would

/ Under the direction of Mrs.;move toward the Parliament again.
Cheves Ligon. the Pack Memorial|/This time the crowd was led by
,Library of Asheville has brought a Russian tank, handed over to the
,together a collection of forty tra- Rebels by some sympathetic Rus-
_vel posters gathered from coun-|$!an soldiers. I was a part of the
jtries all over the world. These)crowd.

posters were selected for the par-| Very quickly the square in front
tievlarly fine quality of the art of the Parliament became full of

North Carolina in Pictures. spon-|2%d shouting, hoping that the gov-

sored by the North Carolina News| ernment leaders would speak.

Bureau. can be seen in the foyer PEAK OF FRENZY

glare of his headlights and came
over to the car: “Well, I guess you
better move along, son.”.

The boy was a freshman and it
was his first run-in with Cop. Not
wanting to leave his friend, he
drove off with no explanation
down onto the drill field. Cop was
hot behind. In the excitement. both
of them barely missed running
over the other couple camouflaged
under an army blanket.

BACK AGAIN

After much confusion, ‘finding
of lost shoes, wallets and. such,
and general misunderstanding, Cop
assured them that everything
would be all right if they would
just go somewhere else. ‘‘Boys just
don’t learn a lesson though.” he
said, “I caught the same two back

violin student of the Senior Class at
the Conservatory of Music, Ober-
lin College. in Ohio, where she
is assistant concertmaster of the
Oberlin Symphony Orchestra, Miss
Pfohl is a student of Andor Toth.
Miss Ffoh) will be heard in the
Corelli: “La Folia’ Variations, the
Franck “Sonata for Piano and Vio-
lin’ and Bruch's “Concerto in G
Minor, Op. 26.” She will” be ac-
companied at the piano by her
mother. Louise Nelson Pfohl.
Formerly of Davidson. Miss
Pfohl attended the Davidson
schools and was graduated from
Myers Park High School before en-
tering the Oberlin Conservatory of
Music. where she has become
recognized as an outstanding young
musician. Her father. James Chris-

of Chambers. The display consists
of thirty mounted photographs,
some of which are in color.

Whale Explains

(Continued From Page One)

As the frenzy of the crowd
reached its peak, machine guns,
manned by the Secret Police and
concealed in the Parliament Build-
ing and Agriculture Ministry,
opened fire on the crowd. Six hun-
dred people were killed almost

scripture over and over, without|instantly. The Police had shown
knowing really what they say.|little discretion in their murder-

Knowing the

language. Hebrew|ing because I saw the blood not

and Greek, is the key to really/only of men but also of women
understanding the words as we and children mixed on the pave-

have them in English.”
Dr. Whale is no hollow exponent
of this preparation in classica

ment ‘of the plaza.
I guess I was lucky, that’s the

j|only way I can explain it, because

language. as was evidenced by his|! was standing behind a steel
lectures during the week. He holds| Power pole when the firing start-
powerful control over the wide|ed. Otherwise, I might have been

range of philosophy, theology, eco-| Wounded or killed.

nomics. and history.

Basic to Dr. Whale’s own theo-|moved up

Part of the crowd I was in
one of the “Ray

on the drill field the next night.”

Cop knows what goes on around
the campus: he was young once.
The reason that there is no
resentment against Cop doing his
job is because he is still young at
heart and understands the boys.
It's most typical to hear him say

8
Almont Lindsey Join
i jovial to mething like,
usinee there's 0 much traffic out Davidson ROTC Staff

here on the baseball field, I think | Sgt. Almont E. Lindsey is the

maybe you'd better move on. latest addition to the Davidson

“I kind of get a kick out of :
. ROTC department non-commis-
catching the boys I know real sioned officers.

well.” Cop admitted. “I like to roll : ;
. Having just returned from Ko-
up behind them, -bump the car, rea where h .

e was a Regimental
ond we my Hebits. They usual- Training, Intelligence. and Educa-
y take it In good fun. tion NCO, Sgt. Lindsey's new job

Cop wan ON ee one such is assistant light-infantry wea-
ons instructor.
incident with Lyman Kiser, the P Sgt. Lindsey, whose father is
president of the student body IN professor of history at the Univer-
1953. Lyman told of the inci ent sity of Virgiania, is from Fred
euring cart in cap ane teanings Teksbure, Virginia. Before enter-
uNgS ing the Army he attended Mer-
Fields, the notorious dorm bandit! on University Law School in
of 1954, who later killed a police-: vacon, Georgia.
at wee tae onepel the dey of Sgt. Lindsey's wife Gwendolyn,
. to whom he has been married for
rhe chant. “Lyman aaa four years. is from Macon. They
our delight; where're you going to | have a girl 2% years old and a boy
Regt /15 months old Their home is in
Perrone at Davidson knows! Cornelius. where they attend the
; Mt. Zion Methodist Church.
Cop Linker: his heavy, purposetul| When asked how he liked the
socket tow tie. and hat, his friend. | Da¥'as0n community, Set. pindsey
* y * “isaid that he and his wife were
ly eyes, his deeply lined face, and happy here and that he liked a
small college community.

Sid Abernethy Speaks

At Bus-Eco Meeting
Mr. Sid Abernethy will speak to

the Business-Economics Associa-

tion Wednesday at 8:00 p.m. in the
Ballroom of the College Union.

tian Pfohl, is the conductor of the
Charlotte Sympony Orchestra and
was formerly head of the David-
son College, Department of Music.

Sigma Upsilon Reviews
Creative Writings

Sigma Upsilon, national honor-
ary creative writing fraternity,
held its bi-monthly meeting last
night at the Sigma Chi fraternity
house.

Jobn Bernhardt, vice-president
and program chairman, introduced
the program consisting of selec-
tions of creative writing presented
by' Jim Kuist, Jock Reeder, and
Tom Kernan.

Willard Wolfe also read his
chapter of the novel which the
Sigma Upsilon members are cur-
rently writing.

counter” marketing.

the program presented this past

in his Charlotte business.

|
work and are now on exhibit in| People. There must Have been at
the Ballroom of the College Union. | least 10.000. Everyone was singing

His subject will be “over the‘road to hell is not only paved with | member.

This program is a follow-up of |risy, also.”

logy is the individuality of man’s Streets.” dazed by the atrocity. We
response to God.” You can't coeree|Roticed a man dressed as a
a man to worship God. You may/|civilian, coming down the side
get him to church by compulsion,| street toward the group I was
but you cannot direct the thoughts| Walking with. As he came closer,
of his mind. Milton says, ‘You can-|We Tecognized him as a hated
not make a man chaste by putting a]Seeret Police officer who had
straight jacket on him.’” taken part in the murder of a
AMERICAN CHURCHES tebel family.

As is the inherent aptitude of| He was immediately siezed by
a brilliant man, Dr. Whale shifted|the crowd. They began to curse
his ideas to a related subject with-| him, to beat, and to kick him. He
out apparent change. “There is a was dead‘ within minutes. A large
high nominal church membership |5U™ of money found in his pocket
in America. One wonders when he| Was stuffed in his bleeding mouth.
sees that a church which has a|! helped tie a rope around his neck
membership of two thousand will!and pull him up on a light post.
seat only seven hundred persons.|We left him hanging there as an
But I imagine they have a large example to the Communists. This
budget don't they?” was the only time I helped to kill

He did not leave the issue there}? ™2n. but it was enough.

(although he does believe that
“ambiguity is an art”) but offered| Watched the rebels storm the po-

a suggestion. “When a church|lice barracks, saw Secret Police
reaches a thousand members and|fficers torn apart or burned to
can accomodate no more, those death, and saw Revolutionists cut
who would add to its membership down by the hundreds by accurate
should form a new body. It’s sense-) chine gun fire. I don't like re-

less for thirteen hundred people |™membering all this. ;
to have no room in their chureh.”| AS victory seemed almost within

PAUL TILLICH our grasp, the rumble of Russian
Mention of Paul Tillich brings tanks re-entering the city dashed
more than intellectual reverence {Ur hopes to pieces.
to Dr. Whale’s countenance. “He| (Next week: Flight to Freedom)
is one of the truly great minds of Discussion Groups
the day. He has such beautiful D i G
creativeness, such a wide range of SCUSS on roups
mental activity.” T M | D
Vibrant and inexhaustible, Dr. 0 eel n Orms
Whale evokes respect and awe not| Next Wednesday evening at
only for his powerful Christian)10:30 p.m., there will be several
witness, but for his deep and sin-|dormitory discussion groups con-
cere reverence for life as well.jtinuing the themes presented dur-
“Sincerity is all that matters, real-|ing Winter Services.
ly. We must see the light, but} These discussions will consist
we must not fool ourselves by pre-|of a brief devotional and a ques-
tending we see it if we don’t. The|tion period with a faculty resource
Copies of the seven
good intentions, but with hypoc-|major addresses of Winter Ser-
vices are available.
The discussion groups will be

To conclude his brief interlude,

December on buying and selling|Dr. Whale pinpointed his theo-jheld with Dr. Abernethy in Duke,
stocks on open market, by the|/logy by using the Latin word |Dr. Staples in East, Dr. McGavock
representative from Merrill-Lynch. | fiducia,

Mr. Abernethy, a Davidson grad-| comes first, and the God in whom| Workman in New, Mr. Maloney
uate, works in the investment field|we have faith comes before the{on the third floor of Belk, and

meaning trust. “Faith|/in West, Dr. Bevan in Watts, Dr.

faith itself.” Dr. Ford in the lobby of Belk.

During the next few days I}

BELLES OF TONIGHT’S Midwinters Ball are (Jeft to right): Janet Robinson with Joe Huskins of

Pi Kappa Phi; Ellen Forester with Bunny Perkinson of Phi Delta Theta; Millie Morris with Dave
Shaw of Sigma Chi; Kitty Sue Faulkner with Tommy Hawpe, Phi Gamma Delta; Jean Gold with
Gerald Cathey of Kappa Sigma; Betty Bell with Charlie Brown of Sigma Phi Epsilon; Lou Cowan
with Don Massey of Alpha Tau Omega; Dottie McAuley with Jimmy Martin of Beta Theta Pi; Ellen
Kalbach with John Trask of Keppa Alpha, and Fritchie Crockett with Jimmy Jones of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon. Not shown are Miriam Link with Randy Deniel of the Campus Club, and Chris Eisenhour
with Ken Conger of Pi Kappa Alpha. |

Matmen Even Record Woody Herman
With Win Over Citadel

Davidson’s wrestlers, winning their second match in five
days, took a close match here Wednesday night from the|scheduled to provide a galaxy of
Citadel Bulldogs 14-12. Building up an early lead, the grap-|entertainment for everyone. Be-
plers were able to maintain it as Citadel inched to within 2/sides the individual and fraternity

points in the final event.

Individual scoring:

123 Ib., Coleman (D) over Greco
(C)}—Dee.

130 Ib. Price (D) over Pirone
—Forfeit.

137 Ib. Gee (D) over Rudick (C)
—Dec.

147 Ib. Taylor (C) over Lampley
(D)—Dec.

157 lb. Pinarchick (C) over Rhyne
(@)—Dec.

167 lb. Westervelt (D) over Wil-
lard (C)—Dec.

177 lb. Dzanis (C) over King (D)
—Dee.

Heavy—Eisenberg (C) over Fagg
(@)—Dec.

Both Pete Coleman and Milton
Gee added to their now impressive
list of victories. This was just
Gee’s second match in the 137 Ib.
class, but he seemed to be able
to take the added weight without
too much trouble.

Dave Fagg, who is trying to
make the 177 Ib. class in time for
the Southern Conference meet on
March 8 and 9, was extremely light
(184) for a heavyweight. Nonethe-
less, he put up a good scrap before
succumbing to his heavier op-
ponent.

The matmen now boast a 4 and

Bridge Tourney Set

A duplicate bridge master point
game will be held in the Ballroom
of the College Union, Thursday,
February 21, at 7:30 p.m. The cost
will be 25¢ per person.

4 record, with two matches remain-
ing before the Southern Confer-
ence meet. The next home match
will be with W. & L. on Feb. 27.

Stockton, Nestigen
Will Talk In Chapel

Two ministers, the Rev. Thomas
B. Stockton and the Rev. Edward
L. Nestigen, will speak in chapel
next week.

Rev. Stockton, pastor of Thrift;
Methodist Church, will address the
student body on Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 19. Following his graduation
from Davidson in 1952, he was

(Continued From Page One)

tured the attractive labors of the
decorating committee.
Numerous after-dance parties are

| parties, there is a large party spon-
‘sored by the Social Committee of

the YMCA at Erwin Lodge follow-
ing Friday's dance. ;

Highlighting Saturday afternoon
activities will be the Fourth Herd
Concert in Chambers auditorium,

featuring the special arrangements

of Herman’s new sensation at the
drums, Victor Feldman. The con-

‘cert, which is scheduled from 3
‘o'clock until approximately 5, is

expected to set the tempo for the
more relaxed atmosphere of the
informal dance tomorrow night.
Saturday night's informal dance
will be held in the gymnasium
from eight until midnight.

The following memorandum to
those of you who are without
dates: Get busy; Spring Frolies is
only 56 days away!

trained for the ministry at the
Duke Divinity School and later
spent a year at the University of:
Cambridge.

Rev. Stockton’s first pastorate
was in the Central Avenue Metho-
dist Church of Charlotte and last
fall he was transferred to Thrift.
While at Davidson he was active in
student government, on the track |
team, and in his fraternity.

Rev. Nestigen, from New York
City, will speak at chapel on
Thursday, February 21. He is as-
sociate secretary of the National
Student Council of the YMCA and
editor of the Intercollegian. A
graduate of Union Theologian
Seminary in New York, he was
formerly director of religious
activities at Washington Univer-

138 West Trade Street

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1957

New IFC Ruling

(Continued From Page One)

the fraternities is assumed by mak-
ing the actions of any individual
member subject to authorization
by the whole fraternity, and hold-
ing the whole fraternity responsi-
ble for the actions of the individ-
ual members.

Each fraternity must present to
the IFC a week in advance a full
outline of its Hell Week program
which must conform to the ‘“Regu-
lations For Students.”

CONSTRUCTIVE PROJECTS

Constructive projects during
Hell Week are being strongly
urged by the IFC. These projects
may be carried out in connection
with the Y.M.C.A., the Davidson
Lions Club, or the Social Planning
Committee of Charlotte.

Violations of these regulations
must be reported by IFC members
and will be punished by fines
ranging up to $100. In addition,
a full report of the violation will
be sent to national headquarters
of the fraternity guilty of viola-
tions.

Short road trips are forbidden
as well as any. activities on Gray
Road (Erwin Lodge Road).

Faculty Breaks

(Continued From Page One)

Not all members of the Faculty
seemed entirely happy over the
change, but most reportedly felt
that it was the best compromise
possible. Several who had consist-
ently opposed a change in require-
ments expressed the opinion that
it was “water over the dam” and
that they were willing to “go
along with the majority decision.”

Registrar F. W. Hengeveld
stated that a revised diploma order
would be mailed next week to
the Philadelphia company supply-
ing the college. This revised order
will specify A.B. degrees for all
1957 graduates, excepting science
majors. Mr Hengeveld added that
“any man not majoring in science,
but desiring a B.S. degree may
receive that degree by special re-
quest before the order is placed.”

CLASSICS - POP - Jazz

YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN CHARLOTTE FOR
THE BEST IN RECORDS

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
Phene ED. 2-8257

sity in St. Louis.

1318 W. Morehead

his pectoral show.

for every philceophies} verse 6
set iestlos. cl }. P.O. Box
© Liggett & Myers Tedecce Co.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

et the Famous Open Kitchen fore...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Rich man of the campus was Danny Drew
Because of his wonderful chest tattoo—
A beautiful lady exquisitely etched—
When he fiexed his muscles she got up and stretched
His buddies all gave him their hard-earned dough
For the pleasure of watching .

MORAL: Accept no substitute for real
enjoyment. Take your pleasure BIG.
Smoke Chesterfield and smoke for real.
Made better by ACCU-RAY, it’s the
émoothest tasting smote todav.

Smeke for real... smoke Chesterfield
ecepted for
21, New York 46, N.Y!

Charlotte, N. C.

“eens © 6 SUROTUERED TERIDR, COPTEEET NOU? ty ChEDes CEPEEE,

Lucky girl!

Next time one of her dates bring up the Schleswig.
Holstein question, she'll really be ready for him.
Ready for that test tomorrow, too... if that bottle of
Coke keeps her as alert tonight as it does other people.

me

( ai ta

@ SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled Under Authority Of The Coce-Cole Company By
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is o registered trode-mork, @ 1936, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
