FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1957

Sportstutf

BY
GEORGE RAMSEY

THE WESTERVELT SAGA

“Football, basketball prowess is his‘
At all he does he is a whiz.”

These words, perhaps not struck from the pen of
genius, appeared under a somewhat grubby-looking pic-
ture of Harold Westervelt in the Senior section of the
1955 Athens, Ga., high school annual. They seem to have
been not only descriptive of the high school activities
but also prophetic of things to come in the collegiate
career of this. strapping youngster who has found new
worlds to conquer at Davidson College.

“Westy” came to Davidson in 1955 with hopes of
making the football team and earning one of those en-
vied ‘“‘D” sweaters although he had had but a single year
of gridiron experience in high school. He went on to
make the team and saw spot action during his freshman
year.

Football season passed on and, although he had
been a regular on the Athens High basketball team,
he passed up the sport at Davidson. So the Sigma
Chi’s pushed their healthy pledge into the interfra-
ini wrestling meet. Through brute strength

lesty, who before coming to college had never tried
wrestling as a sport, grappled his way to the champ-
ship of the 177-Ib. class.

Coach Charlie Parker immediately recruited him
for the wrestling team, and a new star appeared on the
Wildcat horizon. Westy wert on to earn that “D” sweater
he had dreamed of.

FOOTBALL HONORS

The 1956 football season found the Athenian in the
thick of the fight for an end position on coach Bill Dole’s
outfit. He not only lettered this time around, but he
played well enough to earn a spot, by virtue of a com-
bination of brain and brawn, on the Southern Conference
All-Academic football team, an honorary eleven selected
by the American People’s Encyclopedia.

Crowning the achievements of the modest Georgian
thus far was his performance on the mats this winter.
After amassing a 10-3 overall record and an unscathed
conference slate, Westy about a month ago inscribed
his name permanently in the athletic annals of Davidson
College when he became the second man in Wildcat
history to win a conference wrestling title. But to top
it all off, he was named the meet’s outstanding wrestler,
a feat never before accomplished by a Davidson matman.

Following his conference victory, Westy entered the
AAU meet at Appalachian State Teachers College and
there, grappling with the best in the Carolinas, he fought
to another championship and again annexed the out-
standing wrestler awardl

HIGH SCHOOL CAREER

Westy broke into the sports scene somewhat late
in his high school career. Although active in Y.M.C.A.
activities since grammar school days (if you check his
scrapbook you'll find a clipping about his winning the

"57 Football Slate Davidsonian == =

Adds E. Carolina,
W. Virginia Tech

Davidson will face two new) =

opponents on the gridiron next
season, according to the recent-
ly released 1957 schedule. West
Virginia Tech, a team which the
Wildcats defeated 51-6 in 1954,
returns to the slate, replacing
Washington and Lee, and East
Carolina will fill a date which
was left open by the cancella-
tion of Stetson of its entire in-
ter-collegiate football program.

Commenting on the new
schedule, coach Bill Dole said
that. it was more difficult than
last year’s, and that to break
better than even the Wildcats
will have to play
ball.”

Four of the nine games will
be played at Davidson's Rich-
ardson Field, and a fifth, the
season opener with Catawba,
is slated for Charlotte. The
complete 1957 schedule is as
follows:

DATE OPPONENT —
Sept. 20 Catawba!
Sept. 28 East Carolina
‘October 5 The Citadel
October 12 V.M.L
*October 19 West Va. Tech
October 26 Presbyterian
Nov. 2 Open,
*Nov. 9 Wofford
Nov. 16 Richmond
Nov. 22 Furman

*Designates home games.

Golfers Journey To
N. Carolina, Duke

The Wildcat golf team travels
to Chapel Hill Monday and Dur.
ham Tuesday to take on two
powers of the ACC, North Caro-
lina and Duke. Coach Scott will
take ten of his men against the
Tar Heels and six against the
Devils.

Carolina, which always has

one of the outstanding squads|Phj Delts and SAE's battled to a tie for first place honors.

in the Southeast, will be led by
Tommy Langley, Gene Looka-
bill and Buck Adams. Duke
boasts Jack Benson in their

“splendid | {¥

1

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cindermen Take
Triangular Meel,
Remain Unbeaten

Coach Heath Whittle’s track-
men notched their second con-
secutive triangular meet sweep
last Saturday, giving them a
season record of four wins and
j{no losses, as they topped Rich-
mond, one of the two teams to
defeat them last season, and_|
Mercer, in a meet held on the
Davidson track.

TWO WAY AFFAIR

vidson captured eight

| bd the deciding factor,

Coach Tom Scott confers with the top four qualifiers on emerged victorious on
his 1957 golf team, who will tead the linksmen into matches
with North Carolina and Duke next week. They are (I. to r.):
John Mackorell, Bobby Street, Bucky Oennis, Coach Scott,

and Sam Sloan.

cight thirds.

and Mercer 7.

for the meet.
points with firsts in the mile
run and 88bhyard run and one] rp,

10-1 RECORDS

Phi Delts, SAE’s Tie
For Volleyball Crown

By BILL HELLIER
During a long and active volleyball season the

team.

Teammate Mel Armstrong and
Richmond's Pete Welker scored
10 points apiece for second
place in individual scoring.

and third in the broad jump.

Both ended up with ten wins and a single loss.
The KA’s, Sigma Chi's, and
ATO’s gave the. leaders stiff

ing for Davidson was _ sopho-
more A! Elder. who ran with

Final Table-Tennis Standings ja cast on ‘his right arm. Elder

; and spirited competition all WON LOST)compiled 9% points by taking
vrinferced be Dik oe ase season and finished in a three| ATO 10 1 first in the broad jump, second
Connecticut State Amateur way tie for third place. Com- Kappa Sig 9 2 Jin the 440, and running one leg
Champion. petition was especially keen this Pika 9 2 lof the relay team.

The Chapel Hill action win|¥ea" with many games being a Delt : 3 WEST VA. NEXT

be on the University’s Finley|W" by only two points in a) Beta . ; . .

Golf Course. Duke is currently third and deciding match. Sigma Chi § 6 This afternoon Davidson was

working on their new links, but COME FROM BEHIND KA 4 5 slated to engage Clemson,
, cc 4 7 |whom they defeated 70-60%

these are not expected to be} Paced by Dave Bradford and Sig Ep 3 7 |Ilast year, in a meet at Clemson.

ready by the time Davidson/Dave Hollingsworth respective-| cag 2 7 |Next home action for the -cin-

plays so the match will be at/jy, the SAE’s and Phi Delts had| phi Gam 1 9 jdermen will be against West

the Hope Valley course. to come from behind to clinch|p; Kapp 0 7 (IVirginia next Saturday.

The Wildeats are playing
the roughest schedule that
they have had in years.
They meet all of the Big
Four teams twice with the
exception of Caroline with
whom they could not work
out @ return match date.

Coach Scott said that the!championship. The Pikas had
team would not have as good|to settle for a second place tie
a record:as previously due to|with the Kappa Sigs.

the difficulty of the slate but

the first place spot. They both
trailed the Sigma Chi’s, who
were unbeaten half way through
the tournament:

Phil Tesh led the ATO’s to a
first place in the Table Tennis
tournament defeating last
year's champ, Bobby Crittenden
of the Pikas to clinch the

The softball and_ tennis

The meet developed into ajers, as they took on a tough
two way affair between the|four game series while the stu-
Wildcats and Richmond, as Da-|dent body relaxed. The results
first one
places and the Spiders seven.|though harmful, were not dis-
The locals’ depth proved to be} astrous. Two of’ the losses were
as they|incurred by the crack Parris
thelisland Marines.
strength of eight ‘seconds and/a 3 game dry spell, the ‘Cats
The final score|came through to take a 2.0
was Davidson 84, Richmond 71,| thriller from Mercer in their

Captain Pete Ashcraft was Back in school again
the top scorer for the ‘Cats and| cteven's gain, Coach

Picking 11%) soit with VMI in a rain-caused|:

leg of thy winning mile relay ine Keydets 9.2 after absorbing

Armstrong was first in the 100-|With the exception of three
and 220-yard dashes, while Wel-| men. the squad has been wield-
ker took a first invthe low hurd-[ing impotent sticks thus far.
les, second in the high hurdles,|Big gun in the percentage de-

Following Armstrong in scor-| West with a healthy .481, fol-

___ PAGE THREE —

Pitching Biggest Problem For Stevens;
West And Wallace Swing Menacing Bats

By LARRY MEVER

The Wildcat baseball squad, in an effort to crack
the .500 mark, takes on Furman at Greenville, S. C., next
Tuesday, April 16. This will be the first of four games
over a six day stretch.

The ‘Cats, with a 3-5 overall
and 1-1 conference record go-
ing into their two games April
11 and 12 against Citadel, stand
a good chance of breaking the
.500 barrier.

SPRING TRIP
Spring holidays brought no
rest for the roaming baseball-

lowed by cénter fielder Shel-
bourne Wallace at .433 and
first sacker George Hart with
379,

Hart. a freshman, holds the
lead in two other departments
—home runs. with two to his
credit: and runs batted in, with
eight. Wallace is showing signs
of becoming a master base
thief. with several stolen bases
already.

His biggest woe. claims
.)Stevens, is pitching. He feels,
however that both batting and
pitching will come around well .
and has high hopes based on
West’s average and the two
wins and one loss registered by
Allen Moore, hiy hurling ace.

Following the West Virginia
game next weekend, seven
games remain on the ‘37 sched-
ule, the last four being played
charges managed ajon the home lot.

win and three losses.

Finally, after!

second meeting.

double header last Saturday. ACTION IN SIGHT

They bounced back to thrash Monday—Golf—N. Carolina.
Tuesday—Golf-—-Duke.
Baseball—Furman
Wednesday—Tennis— S. Caro-
lina.* °
Friday—Tennis—Mlinois*
Baseball—McCrary*
Golf—V.M.I.
Saturday—Track—W. Virginia*
. Baseball—Mercer
Tennis—Duke*
* At Davidson

a 3-0 whitewashing in the -first
ame.
HITTING WEAK

Hitting is giving Stevens fits.

partment is right fielder Jim

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

Charlotte, N. C

that the boys ought to be better|tournaments get under way
golfers at the end of the sea-/next Monday, April 15. Last
son due to the caliber of their| year’s diamond champs, the Phi
competition. Gams, with pitcher Joe Willi-

Eight men made the trip/ford returning, look like the
when the squad traveled to|/team to beat again this year.
Furman Thursday — Stuart/The SAE’s will be seriously
Vaughn, Gary Heeseman,| handicapped this season on the
Bucky Dennis, Ned Payne, Ed|tennis courts without the ser-
Morrissett, Sam Sloan, John| vices of Steve Norton, who took
Mackorell, and George Scott.(first place in the singles last
Ed Bell and Sutt Alexander are| year.

LF Volleyball

team. Today the Cats met Cita-
Standings

del at the Myers Park course.

In competition to date. the
best scores for the locals have
been a 71 shot by Sam Sloan
against’ North Carolina State
and a 73 fired by Captain
George Scott against Duke.
Both of the rounds were played

WON LOST

‘When you're old enough to go to college,

PLUS 50
LAND CAMERA
PRIZES

n 79 cae

PICK THE PACK =.
THAT SUITS YOU BEST ae

Yes, try LeM in the new Crush-proof Box.
. Try the handy tM Pack... then finish the
limerick about the pack that suits you best!

wm E53

your entry TODAY ! cceeeemeeeneen 9 ”

on Charlotte courses. Phi Delt 10 1 NY Z'
The Wildcats were twice vic-}|SAE 10 1 {
torious over State and by the|/ ATO 8 3 |= °
identical score, 25%-19%./KA | 8 3 |= Fly around the world this summer!
They were downed by Duke/Sigma Chi 6 83 15 ™ adventure of a Lifetime ...is waiting fer You!
16-11 in a match at Myers Park|Sig Ep 6 5 = eee fe
played during the spring holi-}Beta . 4 6 |S __ Travel the route of Jules Verne’s fabulous
days. Their other two encount- vappa Sig 3 : = _shero to the most romantic places in the
ers were wi ake Forest Pika - => __ world. London! Paris... Rome... Istanbul :
in. Winstoo Salem "and. "138 at Phi Geom ° ® = - Calcutta . . . Hong Kong . . . Tokyo! Wow CRUSH POOH LM gud HAND tM Oh) AS
, This could be your summer vacation . . . ee en
“Ge © 2 COUereNED FSCMNE. FTUEN WE Het enELeLs core the Charlotte Country Club. CC ° 0 = 79 days of enchantment with all expenses
=> paid. And all you have to do is write one Said a popular B.M.O.C.: Said a Phi Beta Kappa
; Most Improved Swimmer award at Athens ¥ Camp), he = simple ine or anal i about the pack “The New Crush-proof Box = named Jack:
YA idn’t appear in the uniform o ens High until his; = ust finish the limerick about the pac ’ 66 ’
It’s a puz erent: junior year, when his determination and scrap earned|=> _ that suits you best . . . the Crush-proof It i for so ti t a for the he Eack!
him a starting position on the basketball team that went = L&M Box or the Handy L&M Pack. See so eht, . $ so haney to tote,
on to win the regional championship. = __Simple rules in box below .. . and send in Keeps my L«M’s right, In my shirt or my coat,
=>
pa)

By his senior year Westy had developed into a
football-sized athlete, and the grid opener found
him at a starting end post. He held that position
through the season, on a team that reached the
semi-finals of fhe state playoffs. Ironically enough,
he outscored the end who played opposite him, who
earned all-state recognition. Again that winter he
lettered on a regional championship basketball
squad.

you're old enough fo go out with girls. When
you're old enough to go out with girls, who needs
college? Oh well, there's always Coke.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Five years ago no one who knew him would have
dared predict such things for Westy, but by his deter.
mination he has proved that “. . . in all he does he is
a whiz.”

And he's pinned to the Athens High beauty queen.

“Coke" is. o registered trode-mork.

¢

Wy

wo
<
oO
e)
2
4
m
W
4
qa
C
c
mn
Mn

t
Finish the limerick about whichever
L&M pack suits you best.
Send_your last line with the wrapper
or box from the L&M pack you prefer

1.

FIRST PRIZE S

Trip around the 2

Get Full, Exciting Flavor

world in 79 days (a facsimile will do)... along with your
name and address, to L&aM, P. O. Box on Ushita Afi P
NEXT 50 1635, New York 46, N. Y. Plus the Pure White Miracle Tip
9, Contest restricted to college students.
PRIZES Entries must be postmarked no later
" than midnight, April 30, 1957.
Polaroid “Highlander” 4, Entries will be judged on literary Cx. ° M d smoke IM
v ang cameras ° pression, originality, sincerity and apt-
ness of thought. Decision of our judges Ive 0 em modem

(Contest vold wherever illegal) is final. Winners will be notified by mail.
©1957, Liggest & Myers Tobacco Co.

America’s fastest-growing cigarette
