FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957

-_

Helpful Suggestion
Receiving assignments from his supervising professor begins
a typical week for a Davidson Honors student. These assignments
serve as a guide for the week.

FIRST GRADUATES IN 1940

C. K. Brown Credited
With Initiating Program

The first Davidson honors graduate received his degree
in 1940. That year there were three graduates who had par-
ticipated in honors programs. These men were E. C. Huleu,
Economics; Frank Simmons, Jr., Economics, and John L.
Withers, Jr., History.

These graduates represent
long period of growth for honors
at Davidson. The late Dr. C. K.
Brown first urged the faculty to
approve honors education during for final approval.
the early thirties. While this ap- With the support which the
proval was eventually forthcom-|Faculty and Administration have
ing, candidates for the new pro-;thus far given honors at Davidson,
gram were not. Dr. Brown, be-|it is likely that it will increasingly
lieving that an honors program fill a more important role in the

was necessary at Davidson if it academic life of the college.

was to fulfill its obligation as a

liberal arts college offering an ed-

ucation to meet student needs,

continued to push his program.

His hope was realized in 1940.

The earliest honors work

was restricted to the fields of
history and economics. More
recently the English depart-
ment has established its pro-
gram as have the Sociology
and Political Science depart-
ments.

Since 1940, forty-three men
have received degrees in honors,
Twenty-four have received the
B.S. and nineteen the A.B. Num-
bered among this group of forty-
three are several Rhodes Scholars,
Danforth Scholars, and other win-
ners of outstanding graduate fel-
lowships. We had previously been invited

Sociology Grad to join the group on this evening

In recent years the History and to hear a discussion on the Civil
English departments have some-,War and its beginnings. The Pro.
what monopolized the honors}fessor’s house is set back con-

program. All 1957 honors gradu-|Siderably from the road, and its
columns seen through the trees,

make us feel that the setting is
perfect for a discussion of that
1} period.

Warm Greeting
t

aftory and political science in an-
other specially requested program
which has thus far received facul-
ty approval and needs only the
working out of technical details

By LAURENS WALKER

A cold February night found
us on the way to a history semi-
nar. .

The particular seminar in
question was held for history
honors students and the lo-
cation was the home of one
of Davidson’s most distin
guished profesors.

At the door, we dre warmly
ligrected by the professor who
holds his atmosphere-lending pipe
in hand as he introduces us to
his wife and teen age daughter.
The group of six honors stu-
dents has already assembled, at
least in front of the television. We
listen intently to the comments
“labout Jackie Gleason’s wit, and
note, somewhat surprised, that the
Professor and his wife seem to
know a good deal more about the
{subject than the students.
| After some time we begin
to wonder sbout the history,
but the casual suggestion by
the Professor, “Well, gentle-
men, shall we go into the
study?” signals that the Civil
War has taken precedence
over the more modern sub-

DR. C. K. BROWN

ates will have taken their work
in History or English except one ject.
man who is working in Sociology. The study is just as you and I
The possibilities of the program had imagined it. The furniture is
seem unlimited. A present trend completely of the “red leather”
to specialization points to a future variety, and our attention is im-
of education fitted to needs of the mediately attracted by the tre-
individual student. This year for) wendous over sized desk of the
the first time an honors program host and by the seeming sea of
has been split between two major books which surround us from

subjects. Two juniors, Lloyd Cha- floor to ceiling.

pin and Willard Wolfe are suc-
cessfully combining English and
History, in a specially requested
program.

Dan LaFar, Student Body pres-
ident, and a history major is
pioneering this year in an honors
course of Southern History. The
prospects are that next year at
least two men will combine his-

The honors men seat themselves
across one end of the room and
face the Professor who has al-
ready chosen the largest chair of
the study as his “platform” for
the evening.

Down To Work

The work begins as the teacher

a

THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Tailor-Made Education

Honors rogram .-pitomizes Liberal Arts

—$—-  - Ro eo

'; Davidson Men, Past And Present,
\ Hail Honors As Vital Experience

By DAVID ROBINSON
“I regard it as the most valu-
able part of my entire Davidson
experience; it

Liberal Arts College,” comment-

Davis of the Class of 1950 in a

recent survey of alumni, student,! from a standpoint.of numbers and

and faculty opinion upon the cam-
pus “honors” program. |

Faculty comments centered up-|
on the meeting of the needs of;
the superior student for an ac-
celerated field of study. \

“The program is tailor-made to!
meet the desires of the capable
student,” remarked Or. Lilly;
“within the ‘honors’ work is in|
direction can be given to his in-

ian

At Home in

An honors man spends the gre

ful study of source materials. Thi
necessary for his seminar.

COFFEE AND PIE APLENTY

informality Prevails At
Weekly Seminar Sessions

briefly outlines the period of his-
tory to be covered, and points out
certain questions that he hopes to
answer before the evening is over.

With the preliminaries thus com-
pleted, the first question of the
evening goes to the students seat-
ed near the fireplace. It is a lead-
ing question as were all those
asked that evening. Our rather,
limited knowledge of the subject |
tells us that several books could
probably be written on the quest-
tion which the honors man is try-
ing to answer in five minutes.

This process is repeated many
times during the evening. On cer-
tain debatable subjects there. is
lively discussion, but there is very
little talk for the “sake of being
heard.” All the men choose their
words carefully, each trying to
make his position clearly under-
stood.

Though there is, of course,
attention to fact, the largest
part of the material discussed
seems to be of a theoretical
nature, On any important
point, the opinions of several
prominent historians are care-
fully examined in order to
gain s brosder picture of the
subject.

We became so absorbed in the
stream of events and men that
seems to be flowing across the
room we forget that two hours
have slipped away. We are jolted
back to the world of 1957 and
Jackie Gleason by a_ persistent
knock on the door. The Professor
rises, opens the door, and wel-
comes his charming wife into the
sanctum of history.

What To Drink?

Pleasantries are exchanged
around the room, and then she
asks us what we'd like to drink.
Being still a little confused by
the crises of 1861, we hesitate for
a minute and then manage to
choke out “coffee, please.” The
other six answer “milk.” or “cof-
fee” in a tone that leads us to
believe this is a usual occurance.

We return for a few minutes
to 1861, but just as we are begin-
ning to dispel our confusion, there
is another rap at the door, and

terests.”
Professor F. W. Johnston justi-
fied the program in that it allows

: is Davidson’s|the Davidsonian to stretch him-
strongest claim to be a superior|self and proceed at his own rate
jot learning. Or. Thompson ex-
ed Rhodes Scholat Charles Tell pressed his desire that “honors”

work might be expanded, both
of quality.

Student qualifications for such
a program were provided by Dr.
Cumming. “He
strate intellectual curiosity, evi-
dence a maturity of judgement,
and have a concentration of inter-
est in a particular field.”

Student Opinion ..

Closely eorrelation

a. W «a
the Library

atest part of his week in a care-
is work provides the background

the Professor's wife enters again.

This time she brings a. large tray
with eight: delicious looking pieces

of pie smothered in whip cream.
Her daughter brings coffee and
milk. We find that the pie is home
made pecan and that it is some
of the most delicious we have
ever enjoyed.

More Coffee

The conversation turns to cam
pus activities of the past weekend
the week to come. Dance bands.
the degree change, and _ faculty
opinions come in for careful con-
sideration. Almost everybody has

a second cup of coffee. We are

feeling very comfortable and re:
laxed when the professor suggests
that the group ought to make one
final stab at 1861. |

Despite our curiousity to
find out who really did win
the Civil War, we decide to
excuse ourselves, knowing
thet the pie and coffee have
stolen our one hope for un-
derstanding Lincoln and his
Vankees.

We thank the honors men and|

the Professor for inviting us
down, and they cordially extend
an invitation to return another
evening. .We are shown to the
door by the Professor. As we walk
up the gravelled path to the car.
we wonder if education has ever
been so 50 enjoyable?

Seminar Students

'Batile Clocks, Bells

English honors students meet-
ing in the home of professor W.
P. Cumming find they have diffi-
culty in not “Clock watching.”

Dr. Cumming is the owner of
one of the largest collections of
clocks in this area. He has several
in every room of his house, with
a particular concentration in his
study.

They are regulated so that they
strike in a seemingly endless pro-
cession. With the heavy concen-
tration required for Milton, Shake-
speare, and the like, students
sometimes wonder whether the
bells are of the psychological
variety, or whether. they are Dr.
Cumming'’s.

should demon-

tot faculty

|similation of only factual matedi-;his junior and senior years.”

sentiment were the reflections of
those students now .engaged in
English and History “honors”
work. .

“The opportunity for broad and
independent study is invaluable,
and I wish more courses could be

when he said: ‘ . it allows
him to branch out and examine
related and- more particular ideas
that pique his interest.”
Graduates in honors added di-
position of critical application to
taught under the same condi-{their own experience.
tions,” commented Bunny Perkin-| “Critical approach” and “real
were terms used by
viction of students in the benetits|they had received. “The program
rendered by the program: “When| Served as a needed transition from
I consider the hosts of interest-|the academic spoon-feeding pecul-
ing and important books which|iar to freshman-sophomore study
miss reading, | wonder how one|&raduate school,” spoke Joel
rean call that education.” Coyrrpoe of the Class of 1956.
Leon Howell emphasized the
Meets Challenge
requires initiative because of the} Moody Smith, 1954, declared
freedom given.” that “the ‘honors’ work effective-
“The biggest advantage of{!¥y meets the challenge of those
“honors” is that it gives the stu-;Who claim that the smaller col-
dents more time and thus etimi-;!¢ge cannot offer the necessary
al." stated Willard Wolfe. An-| Jason McManus, 1956. suggested
“differdntiating between the
mate association with the profes-| graduate school-bound man: and
sor,” as presented by Carl Cooper.'the ‘generalist.” pursuing his own
Lloyd Chapin provided an in-/)nelinations.”
teresting sidelight on the program; Rhodes Scholar Charles Oavis
from his position as béth an Mng-| presented the possibility, of “‘inte-
lish and a History “honors” -stu-]/grating the intensive study of one
|{ $$ $$

mension to the survey from their
son. | scholarship”

Tom Morgan expressed the con- the graduates to define the gains
students in regular lecture courses|t® the cafeteria-type education of
“provocative nature of the study”
as did Bill Daniel, adding that “it
nates constant cramming and as-|Stimulus to the good student in
other advantage ‘lies in “the inti-/the
dent. The new opportunitics whichtrelated foreign language with the
are provided by the combining of {chosen ‘honors’ work.”

English literature © and English} Alumni. faculty, and student
history into a single integrated |gpinion is perhaps best combined
“honors” program are many. For|in the reflections of Gorden Wood.
me, it is an opportunity to dofy formér “honors” participant and

work in two favorite fields. which jater Davidson professor, who ex-
complement each other and give! pressed his gratitude for being
one a more well-rounded concept! motded into a “self-motivated in-
af English culture.” quired. not a collector of undi-

Perhaps Phii Kukura summed gested credit hours in lecture
up the expression of the group’ courses.”

+ me

oo

, wf

tr
>

‘

¥

~wa

-

ae
th

— |

Coffee Break Discussion
Honors students from different departments gather to ex-
change ideas. Above, English and History men talk informally in
the College Union.

INITIATED IN 1955

Honors Looks To Future
WithNew Seminar Group

The Interdepartmental Seminar is an experimental phase
of the Davidson Honor’s program. Its purpose is to help the
student: (a) understand the total impact of modern industrial
society and world affairs upon our life, (b) tie together his
Liberal Arts education and discover the relevance of its in-
sights for meeting the problems posed by today’s world, and
(c) work out for himself his guilding world view and sense of
ethical. responsibility.

Guided by similar programs un-
dertaken at Princeton, Wesleyan
University, and many other
schools, the Davidson seminar has
sprung from a concern to make
the Liberal Arts edueation full
und meaningful to the student,
precluding insofar as is possible.
any feeling on his. part that his
education has been a compart-

°:

cal positions.”

The participating faculty under-
scores the interdepartmental na-
ture. of the seminar, since the ses-
sions have been led to date by
representatives from the depart.

ments of Bible, Psychology, Soci-
ology, Political Science. History.

SS eR

’ Economics, Business Administra-
mented or irrelevant one. tration, Mathematics, Spanish,
Professors Lead Biology, Chemistry. Music, and

Initiated in September, 1955,
the program was an experimental
interest group for seniors with no
course credit. Under the leader-
ship of Professors Malcolm Mc-
Afee and H. P. Ford, the program
has now been incorporated into
the curriculum as a year course
carrying 1'3-hour course credit

each semester.

Dr. Ford contributes, “Cer-
tain underlying themes guide
the discussions, but no pres-
sure is brought on the stu-
dent to adopt anything but
his own intellectual and ethi- °

Art. Two or more faculty mem-
bers participate in a given session,
and on a’ few occassions, invited
resource guests from outside have
led. or participated in, the discus-
sions.

Heipful guidance for the pro-
gram has come from the Davidson
faculty at large, from faculty
members of other schools, and
from panel discussions of the pro-
gram held at the annual 1956
meetings of the National. Council
on Religion in Higher Education
and of the North Ca.olina Facul-
ty Christian Fellowship.

| zx
‘-

PAGE THREE

Davidson Gives Personal
?'/Approach To Curriculum

Honors at Davidson reflects the College’s eye toward the
future. This forward looking approach to undergraduate edu-
cation will, this June, mark it’s seventeenth year of activity
in giving men an education tailor-made to their needs.

Davidson students become
eligible for honors work dur-
ing their Junior and Senior
years. Any student who has
a scholastic average of 2.25
for alt work prior to his
Junior year may apply to the
Dean of the Faculty for per-
mission to become a candi-
date for honors.

subject matter to be discus-
sed. The exact nature of this
individual work depends on
the field. For example, Eng-
lish honors students will per-
haps concern themselves with
the reading of three or four
novels, whereas a history stu-
dent will try to read extracts
from many sources in order
to build a general knowledge
of the period to be discussed.

Each application. must be ac-
companied by the recommenda-

tion of the department in which
the man wishes to do his work. | Honors men do much of their

In actual practice, the planning |Study in library carrels. There -

of a honors program involves|§ study desks are reserved for
more than an application to the honors men who fit them out to

offiee of ‘the Dean. Each honors suit their personal needs or tastes.

applicant is quéstioned carefully
by the professors under whom he! Students Gather
Discussion over a cup of coffee

will do his work as to what type

program he desires, and just what

he hopes to eventually derivejin the Student Union or on the

from his studies. His formal ac-'campus plays a very important

ceptance must come. of course,’part in the week of research.

through the Dean's office. Often times honors men from
various departments will. gather. to

throw new light on each other's

Weekly Schedule | particular fields.

The weekly schedule for honors The ‘culmination of the
men is generally the same. re- study period is the seminar.
gardless of the subject. After the These groups usually meet in
seminar of the previous week, the the home of the supervisory
individual students discuss with professor. He leads the discus-
their professor the material to be sion, pointing out important

covered during the following concepts and adding material
week. and select, with his overlooked by the students.
guidence, a program of readings

to he done in preparation for the} These sessions last from two to

next weekly or bi-weekly seminar.|fours hours, and rarely fail to pro-

He then begins a period of |duce lively discussion as well as
reading and research on the !good fellowship.

ALL FULFILL MAJOR PURPOSE

Honors Systems Vary
Over Collegiate Nation

By DABNEY STUART
In the curriculum of colleges and universities throughout
the nation, honors programs fulfill a major purpose in both
undergraduate and graduate study.
fo some institutions. the term courses and may secure. advanced

“honors” has a. different conota-|work if he so desires.
tion than it. possesses at Davidson.| Designated for juniors and
The designation “with honors” af-{seniors, the upper program re-

quires similar achievements dur:
ing the student's first two years..
Seminar-type classes and _  inde-
completed his work with a mini-| pendent research characterize the
mum average of B plus, and that: organization. The student may al-
he successfully undertook compre: | so take one course independently.
hensive oral and written examina-; per semester outside of his major
tioris at‘ the close of his senior/field, on which he is marked

fixed to a-diploma from the Uni-
versity of Florida means general-
ly two things: that the student

year. “passed” or “not passed.’”’ The
Offering an honors pro- ‘standard for “passed” is “Cc” or
gram similar to that of Da- |above but the grade is not in-

cluded in the final average of the
-student.

The College of Arts and
Sciences at Harvard Univer-
sity offers its honors program
only to graduate students.
However, seniors who are
candidates for graduate work
in’ fields requiring General
(overall) Exams, are exempt
from exams In their field of
concentration during their

vidson, the University of Cali-

fornia covers a much wider

area of undergraduate study.

The system is divided into

two sections, designated as

upper and lower programs.

As its name indicates; the lower
program is set up for superior
students in the freshman and
sophomore classes. Admittance to
this arrangement rests on the
achievements of a student during
the first semester of his fresh-| fast semester.
man year. He must maintain a B-| In the graduale program
plus average in passing fifteen|aspirants to a Master's Degree at-
hours of work, and he must secure|;tend “Conference” groups as
approval of a special faculty com-|classes. Those seeking Doctorates
mittee. He then is allowed inde-|attend seminars which are limited
pendent study on certain selected|to eight members.

p
{
(

4

a

| =
|
Informal Climax

Seminars end the week of work with questions, discussions,
and fellowship. These gatherings are held in the supervising pro-
fessor’s home.
