LAFAR RECAPS
FIRST SEMESTER
(Page 2)

VOL. XLV

Situation Still Unsettled

Personnel shakeups in the Business and Economics de-

partments remained unsettled

this week, according to C. J.

Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty.
Efforts to secure a new professor of economics are cop-

tinuing as the administration

is reportedly in current con-

tact with three possibilities. Definite word is hoped for by the

middie of next week.

Gaps in this area of the faculty
have been created by the death of
Dr. Cc. K._ Brown, long-time

'55 Leader Drowns
in Holiday Tragedy

The body of Swain Hughes Loy.
o 1955 graduate, .was recovered
January 6, from a lake near his
home in Roanoke Rapids, N. C.

He is survived by his wife, the
former Miss Betty Lou Robinson,

SWAIN LOY

and his parents, Mr. and Mrs. H.
S. Loy of Roanoke Rapids.

Loy and his 16-year-old sister
were victims of a sailboat accident
on December 28. Rescue crews had

(Continued on Back Page)

NOTED ECONOMIST

Funeral Rites Are Held
For Dr. €. K. Brown

Dr. Cecil Kenneth Brown,
Davidson College faculty, died on the night of January 1, 1957
in a Charlotte hospital following an extended illness.

For many years, Dr. Brown, as
a noted economist, teacher, and
Christian leader, was one of the
most well-known members of the
Davidson College faculty. Al-
though he had been ill for some
time, Dr. Brown regularly met his
classes until the beginning of the
Christmas holiday period.

Dr. Brown was a member of the
Davidson class of 1921, a class
which has contributed three other
members to the present Davidson
POOPPOO ODP POOOOOOOOPOOD OOOO COE

MEMORIAL FUND

A scholership fund in mem-
ory of Dr. Cecil Kenneth
Brown is being established by
friends and former students of
Or. Brown. The scholership
will be given for study In the
field of economies. The exect
nature of the scholarship and
the details of the program will
be announced later.

All contributions to this
fund are being handied by the
Davidson College treasurer. Al-
ready, several faculty mem-
bers, students, and friends of
Dr. Brown have contributed.

OPPO POPOPOOPOOODOOPOOOO PDO OOOOP

College faculty. After graduating
as valedictorian, he attended the
University of North Carolina,
where he earned his M. A. and
Ph.D. degrees.

During the 1923-25 period he
was Assistant Professor of Mathe-
matics at Davidson. After teach-
ing at the University of North
Carolina for several years, Dr.
Brown returned to Davidson in
1927 as Assistant Professor of
Economics. In 1929 he was pro-
moted to a full professorship in
this department. He also served
as Dean of the Faculty from 1941
to 1953.

Dr. Brown was the author of
three books and a frequent contri-
butor to scholarly journals and

economics professor, and the resig-
nation of Prof. Fred Morton.

Prof. John Williams, originally |
slated to teach here only during
Morton’s first semester leave, has
agreed to return for the spring
semester; in the face’ of the emer-
gency situation.

The administration had expected:
Morton to return after a one-semes-
ter leave this fall, and was disap-
pointed when he tendered his resig-
nation.

Pietenpol stressed that all cours-
es scheduled for the second semes-
ter will be definitely taught. and-
that the administration will “tean
over backwards” to insure that no
student suffers from the personnel
changes.

The disposition of Dr. Brown's.
courses between Professors Griffin
and Ratliff will be decided on the
basis of the training and experience
of the new man who will be secured ‘
in the next few days. '

Prof. and Mrs. Williams had
made plans to leave the College
at the end of the current semester.
but due to recent developments
gave up their personal desires in
an effort to help the College in this
situation.

In commenting on his  confi-
dence of an early definite solution,
Pietenpol stated that he hopes to
“settle this matter as quickly as
possible,” in order that the stu-
dents involved will be able to make
their plans for the following semes-
ter. He emphasized that all sched-
uled courses would be offered, and
that no students would be handi-
capped in finishing up require-
ments for graduation.

distinguished member of the

papers. He wrote A State Move-
ment in Railroad Development
(1928), The State Highway System
of North Carolina (1931), and In-
troduction to Economics (1941).

A man of many interests and
varied talents, Dr. Brown was a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, Phi Delta Theta,
the American Economics Associa-
tion, and the Historical Society of
North Carolina. He served as chief
economist for the Office of Price
Stabilization in Charlotte during
World War II, and he was Chair-
man of the Civil Service Board. of
Mecklenburg County.

Dr. Samuel W. Newell, minister
of the local church which Dr.
Brown had served as an officer for
many years, and Dr. Carl R.

Me

Ge

9

OR. C. K. BROWN

Pritchett, a former pastor, con
ducted the funeral service in the
Davidson College Presbyterian
Church at 3 p. m. on January 3.

For the remainder of the se-
mester Dr. Griffin and Dr. Ratliff
are teaching Dr. Brown’s classes.
Announcement will be made at a
later time concerning these courses
for the next semester.

Ch

ead

7 oS a
ry

FACULTY, STUDENTS
FAVOR CHANGING
OF A.B. DEGREE, 7-1

Both the Faculty and Student
Body of Davidson College, through
a representative poll of each group,
want a change in the requirements
governing the A.B. diploma.

The recently conducted poll es-
tablished the fact by a vote of over
7 to 1 that both groups supported
a modification of the present re-
‘uirements.

Of the 447 students who partici-
vated in the poll, 85 per cent fav-
wed a revision. The revisionists
hen went on to support immediate
wer future change by 92.6 per-
vent. and by 71 percent they fav-

ye HBautdsontan

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1957

CAT TANKMEN
MEET CITADEL TOMORROW
( Page 3)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
No. 13

Degree Fight Hits Climax
As Faculty Votes Monday

- — |Two Alternatives Offered
By Executive Committee

A three-vear-old fight to revise the traditional distinction
between the bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees
appeared headed for a sudden climax this week.

,
t

ored enabling the present Seniors
and Juniors wha would not have |
gotten an A.B. under the old re-|

Both the Executive Committee and the Curriculum Com-

mittee of the faculty adopted resolutions recommending an

quirements, to do so under the

new requirements.

Of the 25 Faculty members who
respondett, 72 percent wanted a
change. The Faculty members
were evenly divided for and against
including the present Seniors and
Juniors in the A.B. body under
the new regulations.

The nol! breakdown is as follows,
ihe first percentage figures being
to student body. the second the

: faculty:

* 85° —72° for a change in the
\.B. requirements.
15° 20°: against a change in

‘the present requirements.

0% —8*. uncertain.

92.65: —77.7'. of those favoring |

. change wanted it made imme-

_liately.

§,2%—16.6°% of those favoring
a change wanted to make the
change later.

2.2%—5.7% uncertain regarding
the time of making the change ef-
fective..

71% —38.9% of those favoring a
change would permit the present
Seniors and Juniors who would not
have gotten an A.B. under the old
cequirements to do so under the
new, if they qualify.

22.6% —38.9% favored excluding

the above Juniors and Seniors in
the new A.B. cligibility.
6.45: —22.2% were undecided re-
garding the present upper classes’
eligibility under the proposed A.B.
diploma.

The poll did not enumerate
specific possibilities for require-
ment changes and then call for a
vote on these; it was distributed
and compiled in the light of an
article published in the Davidson-
ian of October 19, 1956, which
made the following suggestions as

(Continued on Back Page)

$50,000 Fund Given
To College Library

(Davidson News Bureau)—Five
hundred books will be provided an-
nually for the Davidson College
Library through a new endowment
fund that will total $50,000 when
in full operation.

Edward Dwelle, Jr., of Jackson-
ville, Florida. formerly of Char-
lotte, has established the Fay Ross
Dwelle Memorial Fund in memory
of his mother, the late Mrs. Ed-
ward C. Dwelle of Charlotte. It is
the first and only Davidson fund
specifically designated for the pur-
chase of library books.

Dr. John R. Cunningham said
that this new library fund will
have the effect of providing an in-
crease of 23 per cent in the amount
expended by Davidson for library
books during the 1955-56 school
year. He termed the gift a ‘“won-
derful addition” to the Davidson
library -program, and said that it
helps fulfill one of the college's
most urgent eneeds.

The Grey Memorial Library was
completed in 1941 and currently
houses 64,000 volumes. Strengthen-
ing of the library was announced
recently through the gift of $250.-
000 by a North Carolina Founda-
tion for a wing to the Hbrary.

CONOR IS ALUMNUS

Edward Dwelle, Jr., was gradu-
ate from Davidson in the class of
1932 as a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Dur-
ing his senior year he was Editor-
in-Chief of the yearbook. He later
graduated from the Harvard Uni-
versity Graduate School of Admini-
stration, since which time he has
been engaged in the general real
estate business in Jacksonville.

Dwelle is a member of the new-
ly-created Board of Visitors at the
college.

invmediate faculty vote on the issue.

The recommendations will go be-
fore the faculty Monday afternoon.

Two possible alternatives to the
present classical language require-
ment will be presented. One plan
would give degrees in science only
to majors in Biology, Chemistry.
Physics and Mathematics, with
majors in all other .subjects re-
ceiving the arts degree. ;

Another suggestion proposes arts '0f the department of major work
degrecs for all students, regardless |@lso appear on the diploma,
of major field. - Indications now seem to point

Both plans specify that they to passing of the recommendation,
would go into effect immediately, |# one form or the other.
and would apply to the present; Events began rushing towards
junior and senior classes. what now appears to be a favorable

The first proposal mentioned; Climax for the proponents of the
above includes a provision that;change last Tuesday night as the
for any student who qualifies for}Curticulum Committee voted to
—_—_______ -_ _______-—__—- | present its proposal to the faculty.

On Wednesday afternoon, the
Executive Committee endorsed the ©
general plan, but — recommended
that the faculty vote between the
two alternatives outlined above.

Both recommendations presup-
pose that the 124 semester hours
and 124 quality points will remain
and that English 11-12, 21-22, Bible
11-12, 21-22, Mathematics 11-12 or
13, 21, twelve hours of a foreign
language, eight hours of a natural
science, and History 11-12 or 13-14
remain as required courses.

Every student. must satisfy re-
quirements as to a Major and Mi-
nor as such requirements appear in
the catalogue. Every student will
remain in residence two academic
years, one of which must be the
senior year.

two different degrees under the
old, and newly-proposed require-
ments, that student would have
his choice of degrees.

Another specification, suggested
in some quarters, is that the name

SEE EDITORIAL—PAGE 2

e
~

a

| ONLY FOUR MORE DAYS

Lights burned late and long this week, and cigarettes went by the carton as impending exams
brought Davideonians to earth with a resounding thud after the two-week Christmas recess. The
crucial 10-day examination period opens next Wednesday morning.

Andrews Will Discuss
Income Tax Solution

T. Coleman Andrews, recent States Right’s candidate
for President of the United States, will be a guest of the
Davidson College Business-Economics Association February
6, it was recently announced by Richard Weeks, president

,of the group.

| Mr. Andrews will discuss with spending and accounting methods.
members of the Association and|He has collected more than 180
other interested people “The Fed-|billion dollars in taxes for the
eral Income Tax.” The lecture will | government.

be held in the Union Ballroom! Mr. Andrews entered the ac-
starting at 7:30 p. m. A_ social counting field. in his native Rich-
period will follow the lecture in mond, Va., in 1922., and his. sur-
which students will have the op-| veys of auditing practices in both

|

|

—¥

a |Sigma Chi, Pi Kapp Pick

Semester Presidents

Two of Davidson's eleven fra-
ternities have recently undergone
changes of leadership. Due to
their biannual systems of. elections
both the Delta Lamba Chapter of
Sigma Chi and the Epsilon Chap-
ter of Pi Kappa Phi will be under
new management for the remain-
der of ‘the school year.

Sigma Chi installed as president,
John Trotti; viee president, Bill
Pitser:; secretary, Grier Davis; and
treasurer, Jim Daniels.

Guiding the Pi Kapps will be
Tommy Griffin as president, with
Bob Keown serving as secretary,
John Frye as treasurer and Walter
‘Bishop as _ historian.

New England Scenes

Paintings of New England
Journeys went on display today in
the foyer of Chambers building.
Included in the exhibition titles
as “Campus Scene at Dartmoutn.”
“Bristol Inn", and “Vermont Back
Road.” The collection consists of
thirty paintings. all by New Eng-
land artists. and is presented by
the Ford Motor Company.

METROPOLITAN TENOR

Brian Sullivan Appears
In Artist Series Tonight

Jone winter even toured with the asked to sing at the Central City
Bri Sullivan, leadi tenor “Ice Follies”, along with another} Festival in Colorado. He was to
ran sullivan, | teacing future operatic star, George Lon-' sing one of the most difficult tenor

'with the Metropolitan Opera Com- ;
(parts ever written, that in Beetho-

portunity to discuss with him cur-;the Virginia and federal govern-
By MICKEY THROWER

—_

Fae)

*

rent economic questions. iment have resulted in numerous
Of interest to many students | Teforms.
would be Mr. Andrew's views on| Since leaving Washington, Mr.
income tax which were brought (Continued on Back Page)
out in a recent issue of U. S. News “pany, will appear at 8:15 tonight His career was interrupted by .
and World Report. He is quoted as 8 s jin Chambers Auditorium as partl two years infantry service during ven's opera, “Fidelio”. Twelve per-
saying: “It hurts all kinds of peo- Major orporations | of the Davidson College Artisti word War II. Immediately after |formances in 24 days only proved
ple.” ® Series. his discharge. however, he was|his vocal and dramatic talents.
Professor Ratlif€ of the Econom. Hold Job Interviews | The American tenor's presenti
ics Department, who is working in ; . season is his busiest to date. His
| co-operation with the group, point-| Over 50 major corporations schediile during the past summer
ed out that Mr. Andrew's solution throughout the country will have | ineluded engagements -in Puerto
‘to fill the void that the abolition representatives on campus during Rico, and open air appearances in
iof ineome taxes would cause should the period of job interviews be-! gnera and musical comedy in Pitts:
prove interesting since three-fourth ginning January 30, and continu: | burgh, Cincinnati, Dallas, and Los
of our federal income is collected:ing through March 28. The ¢x:| Angeles.
ifrom this tax source. tensive ara arranged wy ne He participated in the Empire
|Director of Placement, Mr. C./ State Music Festival in Ellenville,
TREN AISONER Shaw Smith, is open to all seniors! New York. where he sang leading
: os _who complete the interview re-|rotes in “La Traviata” and “Cosi
Having served as Commissioner quirements. Fan Tutte.” In September he be-
of Internal Revenue for the first; Interested students should fill: gan an: engagement with the San
33 months of the Eisenhower Ad: out a personal questionnaire, sign. Francisco Opera, which has re-en-
‘ministration. Mr. Andrews is con an agreement to fulfill interview gaged him following his sensa-
sidered an expert on Government responsibilities, sign release of tional debut. with the company in
~~ ~~ their transcripts, and secure con- 1952.
fidential evaluations from three At the Metropolitan Opera,
Film Committee PLANS ‘processors of their choice. A fee where he has become one of the
T § i | F { ,of $1.50 will be required to cover company’s tenor mainstays. he
wo pec a ea ures vs student may participate in the vorites as “La Traviata” and “Rigo

the cost of 10 application pictures. sang four new roles in such fa-

i The Film Committee will pre- program until these requirements letto.”
‘sent a double feature attraction on' sre met. Mr. Sullivan has met. repeated
Saturday, January 19, and Tues- A discussion of the job inter- suecess in the fields of musical
‘day, January 22. Two outstanding views has been tentatively sched- comecy and grand opera. At the
imovies —- “Little Fugitive” and y'ed for Monday, Jan. 28 at 7 p.m., age of 21 he made his first stage
“Little World of Don Camillo”\in the -union ballroom. appearance, singing the role of
,starring France’s most famous! The following companies will be Count Almaviva in an English ver-
-comedian, Fernandel — will be/on campus through Feb. 8: Oak sion of Rossini’s opera, “The Bar-,
shown. Ridge Atomic Energy Commission, ber of Seville.” He made such a
The Film Committe also an-;Jan. 30; Derring Millikin, Inc., and favorable impression that he was
| nounces. that a Fine Film Festival | Esso Standard Oil Co., Jan. 31 and asked to sing the same role two
will be held between the dates of|Feb. 1; Southern Bell Telephone’ weeks later, this time in Italian,
January 31 and February 8. Four|Co., Feb. 4 and 5; Burlington In- with John Charles Thomas as Figa-
of the world’s most outstanding |dustries and Acme Stcel Products. ro
movies will be shown. Series tickets|Feb. 5: Electrometallurgical Co.. Finding that few operatic roles |
costing $1.00 will soon be on salejand Board of U. S. Civil Service., were open to newcomers. Sullivan
by the Committee and at the Union| Feb. 6; General Electric, Feb. 7 accepted an increasing number of
desk. and 8. , ‘musical comedy engagements, and

BRIAN SULLIVAN
Here in Artist Series tonight.

