+

F

Ch

ND

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

ye Davutidsontan

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1957

aa oF
P

rw

“e

Se ee ss Se ees es

DISTINGUISHED CAREER_

President Guided College In
Phenomenal Development

Under the leadership of Dr. Cun-
ningham, Davidson College has de-
veloped at a near-phenomenal
rate. .

In the 16 years of his admini-jMater, just 13 years

stration, endowment has increased
from less than $3 million to more
than $9 million, and the following
buildings have been added.

The Charles Worth Johnston
‘gymnasium, 1949, The Davidson
College Presbyterian Church,
1952, The David Ovens College
Union, 1952, W. H. Belk Hall, pro-
viding housing for 300 students,
1955, A new dormitory for 96 stu-
dents, 1956. Other buildings have
been renovated, and the grounds
landscaped and beautified.

A strong and enldrged faculty
has received vignificant salary in-
creases, amounting to two five
percent increases in the past year
and one-half. The College was
awarded an “accomplishment
grant” by the Ford Foundation for
pioneering in the raising of facul-
ty income, and additional increases
in faculty pay were the number
one goal in Dr. Cunningham's
recommendations, accepted in
1956 by the Board of Trustees.

He has been awarded the honor-
ary degree of Doctor of Divinity
by the University of North Caro-
lina, Duke University, his alma
mater Westmister College, King
College and Wake Forest College.

He has received the highest

honor that his church, his pro-
fession and his constituents can
bestow: Moderator of the General
Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church, U.S., President of the As-
sociation of American Colleges,
and ever-praised president of his
college.
‘John Rood Cunningham was
born July 3rd,- 1801. Reared on a
farm, John attended the nearby
one-room country school and went
to Caruthersville, Missouri, for his
‘high school work. After gradua-
tion, he entered Westminster Col-
lege, Fulton, Missouri, and gradu-
ated in three years.

The reputation of John Cun-
ningham was growing, and in 1928
he accepted the pastorate and
challenge of the First Presbyte-
rlan Church of Bristol, Tenn., like
Gainesville a city of college stu-

One of five major buildings completed during Cunningham’s administration.

dents and young people as well
as of vigorous Presbyterians.

In 1930 he was offered the pres-
idency of his theological alma
after his
graduation, and began the first
of many successful years as the
chief executive of an educational
institution. In a seminary publica-
tion the retiring president, Dr.
John N. Vander Meulen, described
the new president to the students
of the seminary and in five cate-
gories told of his capabilities:

1. His spirituality, a “burning

REPORT GOES
TO TRUSTEES

While the Cunningham resigna-
tion stole most of the attention at
today’s Trustees meeting. the

President’s semi-annual report to)

the Trustees noted the rising cost
of college operation, the need for
salary increases, new trustees and
the rising number of applications
for admission to the college.

He noted that the college Alum-
ni Fund last year totaled $125.-
000, that campus Christian life is
developing under Minister to Stu-
dents Dr. George Staples, and that
gifts will make possible improve-
ments to the library, including
a new wing, from a sum of $325,-
000.
He paid tribute to. the late Dr.
Cc. K. Brown, former Dean of the
Faculty, and Professor of Eco-
nomics, who died Jan. 1.

Dr. Cunningham’s recommenda-
tions were approved by trustees.
They included:

1. A five per cent increase in
the pay of the faculty and a gen-
eral increase in administrative
salaries. ;

2. That Mr. A. G. Odell of Char-
lotte be retained as architect for
the library addition.

3. That Trustees take proper
notice of the deaths of Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, President Emeritus who
died in September, and of Dr.
Brown.

4. That a Ten Year Plan, autho-
rized by the Trustees’ Executive
Committee, be studied by the
Trustees and adopted in May.

®

W. H. BELK HALL

passion for Christ . . ° expressed
through a gracious and modest
personality.”

2. His “wonderful hold on col-
lege students.”

3. His “strong preaching.”

4. nis capability as an execu-
tive, as evidenced by his success
in raising funds for remodeling
the church at Bristol.

He accepted 4 call to the First
Church of Winston-Salem on
February 6, 1936.. A Louisville
newspaper apologized for being
hackneyed when stating editorial-
ly that the term “scholar and
gentleman” never was more
suited to an individual than to
John Cunningham.

On November 19, 1940, the Da-
vidson College Board of Trustees
announced that they had chosen,
after a search of eighteen months,
a fitting successor to Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, who was retiring as
president of ‘the college. They
selected John Rood Cunningham,
but it was not for several months
that he accepted the call, for his
congregation and his city urged
him to stay.

Dr. Cunningham has been an
active president and a leader in
the development of the college,
in higher education and in the
church. He was elected president
of the Association of American
Colleges in 1953 ‘after serving as
treasurer and vice president. He
has also served as president of
the Association of Church Related
Colleges in North Carolina, and
at present is a member of the

q

DR. JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM
Out As President

AN EDITORIAL
His Influence Will Remain

With startling suddenness this morning, Davidson Col-
lege heard the knell of the career of a great president and
witnessed the origin of a legend.

Dr. John Rood Cunningham, who so nobly served this

Problems and Policies Committee College and more widely the whole cause of Christian Edu-

of the American Council on Edu-| Cation, has come to be such an integral part of this institu-

cation. tion and its highest aspirations, that he in no sense can be
He reached the pinnacle of| replaced.

i ithi Presby- . re . ;
teadership ee me United Perhaps to no other single individual in the history of
States when he was elected| Davidson can so much be credited. In part, the outstanding

moderator in 1947. During that] facilities, the sound faculty, and the financial solidarity we
year he represented the church! now enjoy reflect the forward look and scope of vision with
in the organization of the General! which Dr. Cunningham faced his job.
Assembly of the Presbyterian . ; . . , oa
Church in Mexico. The respect which Dr. Cunningham enjoys is not limited

Dr. Cunningham has served as|to the Davidson area alone. In 1947 he was moderator of
president of North Carolina Coun-| the Presbyterian Church of the United States, the highest
cil i Churehes, pne was @ pation’ position of leadership within that body. Among his other
at delegate to the organization 0'| activities of national significance was the presidency of the
the World Council of Churches at , oe .

Amercian Association of Colleges in 1953.

Amsterdam and again at Evans-

ton, Tl. Coming to Davidson in 1941 after a most successful
ministry and a six year tenure as president of Louisville Pres-

byterian Seminary, he brought with him not only wide ex-

periences and contacts, but a devotion both to the Church

‘and to education that blended itself particularly well to the

Davidson picture.

Placed in the difficult position of being in the line of
fire of both the College supporters and the students, Dr. Cun-
ningham is the recipient of an unusual amount of respect
and esteem from people within and outside the college family.

One of the big regrets of Dr. Cunningham in regard to
his service here is the limited amount of time allowed an
executive to deal directly with students, when he personally
would have made this primary.

Nevertheless, the memory of Dr. Cunningham presiding
in poised dignity, the widespread knowledge of his firm be-

_ | lief in the validity of the Christian faith, and his dedication
to the ultimate welfare of the Davidson student has so etched
itself in all that is Davidson, that we as students are, consci-
ously and unconsciously greatly endebted to him.

Bearing modestly the mantle of greatness, Dr. Cunning-
ham leaves now to dedicate his talents to another area that
should continue, at least indirectly, to benefit Davdison. To
this man who so embodies that which is best in education

ns religion, we give thanks for his selfless devotion, his

sy
]

inspiring example, and for his contributions, both evident
and implicit.

;

liad

EXTRA!

SPECIAL EDITION

—— | mx |

Becomes Director Of
Church Foundation

Dr. John R. Cunningham today presented his resignation as president of Davidson
College to the ‘Trustees. The Trustees “regretfully accepted,” and praised his leader-
ship in establishing Davidson as “one of the nation’s finest church colleges, strong in

faculty and student body.”

Dr. Cunningham's

resignation

becomes __ effective

September 1. He will then become Executive Director of the
Presbyterian Foundation, which will have its headquarters
in Charlotte and will centralize fund-raising activities of the
entire Presbyterian Church in the. United States.

The Davidson Trustees also heard and approved Dr.
Cunningham's semi-annual report, delivered before action

was taken this afternoon on
Dr. Cunningham, who will be

66 in July, has been chief execu-/
tive of the Presbyterian-affiliated |

college since 1941. During the
period he also served as Presi-

dent of the Association of Ameri-'

can Colleges, Moderator of the

General Assembly of ‘the Presby: |

terian Church, U.S., and as a dele-
gate to international Protestant
conferences.

Under his

his resignation.

feel a sense of providential guid-
ance in the whole - consideration.”

Dr. Cunningham pointed out
that Davidson, as well as other
colleges. seminaries and agencies
of the Southern Presbyterian
Church, would benefit by the in
creased activity of the Presbyte-
tian Foundation.

It was incorporated in 1925 by

administrtion not/the State of North Carolina, but

only have faculty and student/has functioned in haphazard fash-
body been strengthened, but Da-jion. During the past several years

vidson endowment funds increased | substantial gifts,

totalling more

from slightly more than $2 mil-|than $3 million, have been left to
lion to $8 million. Five major/the church, and a major founda-

buildings were constructed.

tion is needed to invest and ad-

The Trustees were reluctant to ;minister the funds.

accept the resignation, and pro-
posed several plans under which

“Often,” pointed out Dr. Cun-

Dr. Cunningham might remain as|"ingham, “A person. wishes to
president with increased admini-|!€#Ve oF give money to the church,
strative assistance. and has difficulty finding the

He said, however, that “I con-|roper mechanical means of so
sider for the good of Davidson; @°ing. Gifts to the church and
College and the work into which its agencies will be coordinated
1 go that I should take this step.”|through the Foundation.”

“! should like to call attention) Dr Cunningham's resignation
to the fact that I believe David-|will become effective Sept. 1. The

son'is on even keel. There are nojname of a successor has not been
major issues to be settled .. . . I{mentioned.

Trustees Accept
10-YearProgram

Davidson College will seek at least $10 million dollars
in the next ten years, but is losing as president one of educa-
tion’s most successful fund raisers and leaders.

Dr. John R. Cunningham

announced his resignation as

J. McDOWELL RICHARDS

Looks for successor by May.

Richards Hopes For
Successor By May

Dr. J. McDowell Richards. Pres-
ident of the Board of. Trustees,
took the center of the stage this
afternoon as efforts to secure a
new president of the College be-
gan.

The Nominating Committee
elected by the Trustees this after-
noon is composed of the fellow-
ing men:

S. R. LaFar, Gastonia; Dr. Jas.
A. Jones, Richmond. Va.; J. S.
Spencer Love, Greensboro; Dr.
James P. Hendricks, Durham;
Rev. Fred Stair, Hickory, N. G.;
Dr. J. M. Richards.

Interviewed minutes before
the afternoon session of the Board
of Trustees convened. Dr Richards
told the DAVIDSONIAN that it was
his hope that. a new President
would be elected at the May meet-.
ing of the Board of: Trustees.

He indicated that it a succes-

president to the Board of Trustees yesterday, while express-'sor had not been fotind by that
ing. full confidence in the proposed Ten Year Plan and the

future of the college.

The Trustees accepted his
resignation with expressed reluc-
tance, and with sweeping praise
for him and his accomplishments.
They also voted for all of his
recommendations, including the
Ten Year Plan.

As president of Davidson since
1941, Dr. Cunningham established
a national reputation as college
administrator and churchman. He
served as President of the Asso-
ciation of American Colleges in
1953, and in 1947 was Moderator
of the General Assembly, highest
office of the Presbyterian Church
in the United States.

He resigns at this time to be-
come Executive Director of the
Presbyterian Foundation, which
will be located in Charlotte
and which will coordinate admini-
stration of funds designated and
allocated by the church to its
agencies. Colleges, seminaries and
similar agencies will benefit from
the Foundation program.

Even before becoming David-
son’s president Dr. Cunningham

had acquired a strong reputation,

as administrator and financial
‘leader. He was president of the

Louisville Presbyterian Seminary,
his alma mater, for six years, and
held pastorates in Grenada, Miss.,
Gainesville, Fla., Bristol, Tenn.-
Va., and Winston-Salem.

Under his administration David-
son made giant strides in physical
plant, faculty salaries and success
of graduates. The Presbyterian-re-
lated college has had 11 Rhodes
scholars (more per capita than
any other Southern institution)
and now sends three-fourths of
its graduates to professional or
graduate school.

In addition, endowment has in-
creased from just over $2 million
to $9 million, and five major
buildings have been completed:
the Charles Worth Johnston gym-
Nasium, Davidson College Presby-
terian Church, David Ovens Col-
lege Union, W. H. Belk Halt, and
a new, unnamed dormitory. Two
literary halls were restored last
summer, and the campus has been
landscaped.

Under the Ten Year Plan the
College would continue to raise
faculty pay, now above the na-
tional small coverage average and
as high as that of any Southern

time, in all probability an Acting
President would be named.

Richards declined to comment
on the names of any possible can-
didates.

small college.

While maintaining flexibility as
its keynote, the Plan calls for:

1, Continued emphasis on cam-
pus religious life.

2. Renewed effort to strengthen
the teaching of the liberal arts.
and to provide “refresher courses"
for buatnessmen, ministers, etc.

3. A strong physical education
program, geared to the individual,

4. A continuing study of the
academic program.

5. Increasing endowment.

6. At least seven new major
buildings.

7. Enrollment limited to 1,000.

8. Substantial financial improve-
ment in faculty salaries, and a
program of visiting distinguished
professors. a

An estimate of expenditures
and needs, under the plan would
amount to about $11 million -dol-
lars. Details would be restudied
on a continual basis, and acquired
funds allocated as needed.
