FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants
Spo: +

By JOHN JOHNSON

Mr. Laurens Walker’s article in the Davidsonian last week
pointed out a basic incongruity—the fact that varsity compe-
tition has been the deciding factor in the IF. sports trophy
for the past four years.

Although the system is debatable, most people willing
to express an opinion on the subject agree on two points: (1)
that the current setup is not entirely “right”, and (2) that
varsity athletes should receive credit for their contributions
to the sports scene.

Interfraternity competition is interfraternity compe-
tition, and to decide the trophy on any other basis seems
basically in error.

WITH REASON

The varsity clause was not included without reason.
Counting varsity competition as a major sport event is intend-
ed to encourage athletes of ability to compete on Wildcat
teams rather than at the interfraternity level.

However, as Mr. Walker pointed out, in actual practice
fraternities do not as a rule encourage a boy to go out for var-
sity sports to gain intermural points.

Yet any fraternity that contributes heavily to the
varsity should receive recognition for that fact, and there
should be no system that would deter bovs from going
out for such sports.

POSSIBILITY

For a solution Mr. Walker suggests decreasing the amount
of points given for such competition and discounting any such
points in determining the number one position.

This is one possibility, but it seems to be a half way step.
Either count the varsity contribution or do not count it. If
it doesn’t decide, what good is it?

If the varsity clause was eliminated entirely, two tro-
phies could be established—one for varsity participation and
one for interfraternity sports, each being more indicative of
how it was actually won.

HOOKS HOOKS

Last rena night 6’ 5” forward Lee Marshall of W&L
turned in the smoothest performance on
the local gym floor in several years as he
dumped in 40 points for the General’s
89-70 victory.

The hook-shot specialist pushed. his
scoring average to 24.9 per game, among
the top twenty in the nation, in sinking
17 of 22 shots from all over the floor. His
accuracy became so high in the final half
the crowd groaned the instant he started
his long, hooking motion.

The cocky Kentuckian was hampered
by injuries last year and took a back seat
to his teammate Dom Flora but this season his average leads
the conference. Coach McCann commented afterwards, for
the benefit of those who thought Marshall was infalliable, that
Lee did have one bad night this year; he got one of 13 against
Lafayette. \

In Spring Drills
Coach Dole’s grid men returned
to action Monday afternoon after
over three months of rest.
Spring practice was scheduled
to begin on February 4th, but due

to unfavorable weather the drills
were delayed one week.

Riflers Gun With W&L,
Citadel On Belk Range

The Wildcat ROTC rifle team sees Midwinters action as

they play host to two Southern Conference foes this weekend.

Washington and Lee fire today,
and will be followed by the Key-
dets from the Citadel on Saturday.
afternoon.

The staff conducted only light
workouts on the opening day with
no body contact. The session con-

The ‘Cats carry a 64 won—
lost record into the weekend's
competition, boasting victories

sisted primarily of conditioning) over Wofford (2), Presbyte-
exercises. Before the afternoon, "i@™ Belmont Abbey, and
was over, however, the squad hadj| VM. fterea ot a
run through a few basic offensive |, Deteats Pilg coe pte: :
plays which will be used this fall.| |Washington, and Presbyterian. |)

Inter-squad scrimmages were) ‘This will be the ’Cats’ first en
held on Tuesday and Wednesday! unter with either the Citadel
along with the routine condition-)| or Washington and Lee.
ing workouts. Each man was nen Last week the Cats defeated
an opportunity to play his respec: | |Clemson by a seore of 1338-1300.

tive position so that the coaching |; aging firers were Bob Alexander | |
“'and Charles Stowe, both scoring}

staff could study each man’s po-|

tential. 272 out of a possible 300 points.

The quarterback post is still a| Other Davidson scores: C. O.
point of much concern to Dole.| pickard, 270-300; J. H. Wearn,
He has begun his job of grooming 265.300; Topper Ruggles, 259-300;
a quarterback around McEachern, | sng J. F. Pinkney, 251-300. Only
Braswell, McGirt, Cutting, and) one of the six ‘Cat firers was a
Benson. All of these men have | senior, a fact which indicates an
been alternating during the scrim-|jmproved team next season, Also
mages. significant is the presence of two

The mid-winter drills will last} freshmen, Wearn and Ruggles, in
two more weeks. | the lineup.

Soph Pete Coleman
Small Package Dynamo

Football, basketball, baseball | be held March 8-9 in Lexington,
all are sports in which lack of} Va. coach Parker expects his pint-
size often proves a factor disquali- |
fying the “little man.” However, |
wrestling, the sport of the groan-|
ers, provides this little man with)
an opportunity to compete against |
opponents of his own size.

Davidson's Pete Coleman has |
used the mats to prove the old)
adage “big things come in little
packages,” and to earn his share
of Wildcat athletic accolades.

LAST YEAR TOO “
First gaining recognition by cop- -
ping the 123-pound division of last
year’s interfraternity wrestling
meet, Pete went on to a sparkling
season for coach Charlie Parker's
grapplers, compiling a 42-1 record —~
and earning the respect of his |
teammates and opponents. +
The Huntersville, N. C., sopho-
more, although hampered by an
asthma handicap, has stolen the
spotlight this season from his
heavier counterparts by amassing
the best record among the Wild-
cat matmen.

SEVEN—ONE

At present, with two meets re-
maining, he has a 7-1 record, five -
of his victories by falls.

In last year’s Southern Confe-
rence tournament he placed fourth
in the conference; and, looking
forward to this year’s tourney, to

| sized aynamo to do even better.

Coleman, a member of the Kap-
pa Sigma social fraternty, has con-
‘tinued the tradition of the past
two years in which Reitzel Snider
and Henry Griffin recorded out-
standing performances as sopho-
| mores.

PETE COLEMAN

}Southern Conference Tournament.

“| points,

Dave Hollingsworth (left background), the sure-shot Alaskan,
hits for two points to lead the Cats to a 66-54 win over V.M.1. last

Saturday. The 6’ 4” soph

forward was high man with 15 points.

Hollingsworth Hits As

Cats Aim For Tourney

The future fortunes of the Wildcat hardwooders have been
brightened by the improved performance of their big 6’ 4”

forward, Dave Hollingsworth.

The 205-pounder, formerly All-
Territory star who got his high
school experience in Juneau, Alas-
ka, is only a sophomore but in re-
cent games has established himself
as the deadliest thing the 'Cats can
put near the basket, both offensive-
ly and defensively.

While leading in rebounds,
Hollingsworth has also poured
in 74 markers in the last four
outings. It was his 15 points
that paced the win over VMI,
66-54, while Semi Mintz hit 12
and Joe Milner had a good
night with 14.

The conference triumph kept
hopes alive for a berth in the

Against Wofford last Tuesday he
led the Davidson five with 23
but it was not enough to
subdue the Terriers, who won 75-65.

The rest of the black clouds

You smoke refreshed

all-new Salem

euie by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

A new idea in s

«ich tobacco taste

- most modern filter

oe

seth

Take a puff—it’s Springtime! Light up a filter-tip Savem and find a smoke
that refreshes your taste the way Springtime does you. It’s a new idea in smok-
ing—menthol-fresh comfort .. . rich tobacco taste ... pure, white modern filter!
They're all in Sacem to refresh your taste. Ask for SaLEM—you'll love ’em!

Salem refreshes your taste

around the sliver lining of the VMI
win are results of an 89-70 defeat
by Washington and Lee and a
86-77 loss to William and Mary,
leaving the season mark at 5-16.
Mintz continues to pace the

Red and Black in scoring with

productions of 30, 17, 12, and

19 points in the last four

scraps. “The flying pencil”

maintains his eighth position
in Conference scoring.

At the next home game, on Feb-
ruary 28 against The Citadel, a
win is a must for the Cats in order
to stay in contention for the tour-
ney.

North To

C. Indoor Track Meet

Championship Material

In Gramley,
By OYVIND
Davidson’s veteran track

Ashcraft

mentor, “Pete” Whittle, will

take a squad of five athletes to the Southern Conference In-
door Championship at Lexington, Va., this Saturday and hopes
to return with either one or two championships.

Pete Ashcraft and Bill Graniley
are both in good shape and stand
as top contenders in their events.

MEET IN 880

Ashcraft will meet last year’s
winner, Bob Wingfield of VPI, in
the 880 yards run, and may also
run the mile. The experienced
senior from Amherst,  Mass.,
finished strong in workouts this
week and will certainly give the
defending champion trouble.

Wingfield has already posted a
2:03 in indoor competition, but}
will have to better that time to)
beat Davidson’s star of the middle
distances. Bill Gramley has been
putting the shot over the 45 feet

in practice, and is probably Da-
vidson’s most solid hope for a
top honor.

Other men going on the trip are
freshman shotputter Dave Warden,
one of the most promising new-
comers on this year’s track squad,
and 440 specialists Al Elder and
Ross Mallory. The latter is out to
better his fourth places of the

\last two years.

“100” CLUB

The rest of the trackmen are
gradually building up for the first
outdoor meet against Furman and
The Citadel, in Greenville, S. C.,
on March 23rd. In spite of im-
portant losses by graduation,
Coach Whittle is optimistic. He has
at this time 98 victories in out-
door track meets, and is a safe
bet to join the exclusive “100”
club of track mentors before the
season is old.

Cat Tankmen Split Pair

By GEORGE RAMSEY

Davidson's swimming team split
a pair of meets last weekend on
short jaunt through Georgia
copping a 54-32 victory over Emory
University on Saturday after drop-
ping an almost identical 53-32 tally
to the University of Georgia the
day before.

a

Tommy Rivers, Wildcat captain,
captured a total of four first places
in the two meets, winning both the
50 and the 100-yard freestyle
events against each opponent. John
Scott, freshman standout, stole part
of the spotlight by winning his
specialty, the 200-yard butterfly
event, in both meets, setting a new

school record of 2:35.5 against
Georgia.

Georgia, a perennial power
among Southeastern Conference

tank teams, won all events exeept
the three won by Rivers and Scott
in a meet held in the nation’s

largest college pool. Tee Bulldogs’

On Journey To Georgia

, Strength is evidenced by the fact

that two of their swimmers, back-
stroker Tommy Blakely and free-

styler Jimmy Bankston, set new
SEC records in their respective
races.

Against Emory the Wildcats
managed to win all but two of
the ten events in coasting to vic-
tory. Jerry Clark, sophomore free-
styler who won both the 220-and-
440-yard races, joined Rivers as
a double winner in pacing the Da-
vidson victory.

Four seniors—Rivers, breast-
stroker John Edwards, diver Basil
Sharp, and backstroker Bill Car-
rell all mainstays of coach
George Thompson's squad, saw
their last competitive action in the
local pool in this afternoon's cru-
cial engagement with Washington
and Lee. Remaining on the 1957
schedule are a meet with South
Carolina in Columbia on Feb. 27
and the Southern Conference meet

on March 1-2 in Charleston, S. C

The ‘57 Casual Look- Arrow. Style

This Arrow Squire sports a pattern with decided
freshness. Black on white available in three different
sized plaids. New medium-spread collar has button-
down front plus button at back. Exact sleeve length.

(This same shirt is also available in White Tartan
—six new miniature plaids.) Arrow Squire,
“Sanforized” gingham, $5.95.

The word is gingham -
in black and white

It’s been a long time since we've seen a
shirt become so popular so fast. Men come
in... see this handsome Arrow Squire...
and buy. That simple. The new Squire
collar buttons down front and center
back. And because it’s an Arrow—you
get your exact sleeve length. Arrow Squire
in “Sanforized” gingham, $5.95.

IVEY’'S OF CHARLOTTE

