FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1958

™ Sportstutl
q hh GEORGE RAMSEY

During the interim between winter and spring
sports, the interfraternity athletes are doing an admir-
able job of keeping the campus sports marquee lit. The
Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, KAs and Sigma Chis are keeping
the I-F trophy race tighter than a 30-inch belt on Brown
Hamer...

Semi Mintz, among the nation’s leaders in foul shoot-
ing during the year, finished with a mark of .882, con-
necting on 105 of 119 charity tosses. This mark tops
the .877 average which Ernie Wiggins corraled last year
in winning the national free throw championship. Final
statistics have not yet been released, but Mintz’s mark
should win the national crown or place him a close sec-
ond to Myers of Texas Tech. . .

Coach Tom Scott, a member of the NCAA
Basketball Youth Fitness Committee, addressed the
32nd annual gathering of the Basketball Coaches
of America at Louisville, Kentucky, yesterday. The
meeting is being held in conjunction with the NCAA
basketball finals. .

On the subject. of NCAA finals, from this corner,
Kansas State looks like the best bet to win the title. . .

Tennis Set-Up Hurts Davidson —

Coach Dick McKee figures the new Southern Con-
ference tennis tourney set-up practically makes George
Washington a shoo-in for the title. The new arrangement
sets up six separate singles brackets, with all the number
one players in a bracket, all the number twos in an-
other, and so on. Davidson’s hopes of winning the crown,
which were pretty high under the old system, received
a jolt.

The net tourney set-up will provide six individual
“champions,” and will possibly lend to selection of an all-
conference team. Similar type tournaments are used
in the Big Ten and Southeastern Conferences .. .

Westervelt’s Third AAU Title —

Westy Westervelt’s victory in the Carolinas AAU
Wrestling Meet last week was his third AAU title in
two years. Last season he won the same title, in the pra-
cess of winning the “Top Wrestler” award, and earlier
this year. he captured the title at the Georgia AAU
meet in Atlanta...

The basketball game between the ‘I-F all-stars
and the Kappa Sig loop champs, originally set for
last Wednesday, has been postponed due to conflict-
ing events. Arrangements are being made to hold
the contest next week...

It seems that the Athletic department should be
able to provide better ping pong tables for the I-F
tourney than those in the gym balcony...

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

CLOTHES OF DISTINCTION

FOR THE

MAN OF DISTINCTION

\

Choose from our new Spring
selection of fine clothing

and matching accessories.

Jack Wood Ltd.

“1g Coste No More To Dress Correctly”

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

‘}eessful close as two Wildeat

|Mike Martin, who will be out

lefthander

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PHI DELT DAVE HOLLINGSWORTH slams a shot across the net in his team’s Wednesday
encounter with the Betas. The Phi Delts, co-leeders in the 1!-F volleyball loop, defeated
the Betas in three games.—(Photo by Ed Stevens.)

Volleyball, Table Tennis
Play Underway This Week

Grapplers Grab Two} Phi Delts Take Lead
Carolina AAU Titles’ In Both I-F Sports

The 1958 Davidson wrestling
season was brought to a suc- By HENRY RAMSEY

grapplers returned home with
titles from the Carolina AAU
meet last weck.
- Captain Dave Fagg and
Southern Conference champion
Harald Westervelt captured the
crowns in the  177-and-157-
pound classes, respectively.
Fagg outpointed Godfrey, 8-1,
in the first round of the meet.
in the semi-final match. he pin-
ned Bass, representing the 82nd
Airborne Unit, in the third pe-
riod. In the finals he disposed
of Daughtry. of Fort Bragg. pin. |
ing him also in the third pe-
riod.

have begus: to dominate the scene.

In the volleyball, tournament. :
the Phi Delts led. by Barney{record of one win and

Donny McQueen are tied for
first ‘place with five wins and
| no losses apiece. Sonny Fer-
guson has sparked the K.A.s in-

is a three way tie for

no losses. A fivtone record! six apiece.
gives the Joe Milner-led Sigma!
Chis third place in the race!
with the Sigma Nus antt S.P.E.s
Westervell, who only a few/tied for fourth place with two
days before annexed his sec- wins and two losses apiece.
ond consecutive. Southern Con- | : . .
ference championship. drew a; After six rounds in the ping:
‘first round bye in the AAU, , PORE: Dave Hollingsworth, Phi

In the semi-final round he out- Delts is ‘tn first place with six
:wins and no losses. The K.A.s

Standings

oon ne rend wae |e Sigma Chis, with five-one Kappa Sigs 652.1
ent defeated Wysackie, of Fort| Tecords arc tied for second aaa a24
Braga. for the title. “"\ place while the Kappa Sigs. KAs ; $12.9
} Fage in addition to the | Betas. A.T.O.s, and Pikas are Sigma Chis 610.5
championship was named the, tied for third with four wins! Betas 571.5
‘Top Wrestler’ inthe meet. This | #4 (wo Tosses apicce. ones 4635
. . This : ams

honor was accorded Westervelt| -A 33 mark gives the S.P-E.s ATOs 416.2
in 1957. the fourth place slot, and 2 Pi Kapps 320.1
1 PiKAs 273.1
SPEs 251.4

Power-Laden Netters ::..... 739

| Vie For Team Posts
|

With the season's opener with Furman only a week
away, visitors to the tennis courts find an optimistic Dick
| McKee working with a team that has, as he nut it, ‘‘the
most depth I’ve had since I've been at Davidson.”

The powerful squad, de-| boy with good strokes, and hard
spité sevcral losses, includes six} hitting Bobby Davis.
lettermen, several experienced] McKee pians to accentuate
sophomores, and a host of{the the aggressive game this
talented freshmen. A rugged; year and have: his boys play
battle for the six top spots is! the majority of their matches
expected. at the net rather than on the

SECOND TO GW base lines.

“We are second only to
George Washington in the con-
ference,’ he said, while prog-
nosticating that his squad would
win 14 or 15 out of the 19
matches this year with a sched-
ule that includes such powers
as Miami, Cornell, and Duke.

The top three contenders for
the team at the present are
Dave Pearsall, a scrapper with
a good stroke and volley: John) —
Poindexter, whose backhand!
and net game are looking good:' & ,
and Tom McCutchan, the most §
improved player on the team,“
whose aggressive net game is|. 2%
sparkling at practice. The num-
be one man will probably come
from this trio, but even Mc-
Kee won't venture a guess as
to who it will be yet.

Another letterman who will
see action is Dick Hodel, also} “z
a scrapper whose varsity com-
petition last year greatly im-
proved his game.

The other two lettermen are| :.
basketballers Semi Mintz and

vals

126 W. TRADE ST.

“4

after the spring holidays and a
will certainly play plenty of
ball.
' An outstanding sophomore
prospect is Harry Broome, an
excellent doubles player who
just missed lettering last year| .
because of an injury. Other| |
sophomores who may see action! °
are Sam Zimmerman, a rangy
with plenty of
power, and Jim Hamilton.

FROSH HOPEFULS

The list of freshmen hope-| ® menthol fresh
fuls is headed by Doug Orr, a ;
wiry young gentleman who e rich tobacco taste
¢ most modern filter

could break into the top six.
Other frosh who have looked
good are Rick Aderhold, a big

jmen travel to Charleston today! nysitions in-the outfield in ad;

son's first’ track action.
{various events is as follows: In,

. Marvin Bentley and Ed Kiser’
After the hustle of the basketball and track in the wilt sprint for the Wildcats.

inter-fraternity sports program is over and all but for-'
gotten, the calmer sports of volleyball and ping-pong tance are Brownie Thurman,

‘in the 880. Chester Alexander,
five|Jim Alexander, and Roger Bee-

Regen and Bill Patton and Kap-, losses gives the S.A.E.s.a hold be
pa Sigs paced by Ken Owen and|on the fifth place slot. There

sixth the mile event while Graham
place between. the Pi Kapps.| George and Ray Antley will rep-
Sigma Nus, and Phi Gams who resent Davidson in the two mile!

to second with four wins and. have won no games and lost

iby Chris Bremer and Jim Ham-

I-F Overall

MAINE LOBSTERS © ST

A new idea in smoking...

Salem refreshes your taste

PAGE THREE

Davidson Hosts Catawba,
Yale Nines Next Week

By BILL HELLIER

With their opening game against Lenoir-Rhyne at! -,

Hickory last Tuesday postponed by wet weather, David- | he

son's baseball squad played host to the Bears today on
the home diamond.

The rain and general bad board behind third base.
weather has played havoc with

pre-season workouts, but Coach Wildeat lair on Monda

. ; y and are.
» m d sen 's generally followed on Wednesday and|
pleased with the team's over: tiursday by the highly rated

all appearance. 4 :
A heavy schedule is slated | Bulldogs of Yale University.

for the Wildeat nine next week
and a great deal of work has’
been done on the field inelud-
ing a much-needed new score

Catawba’s Indians visit the

Because of the limited
practices, Coach Stevens
has not been able to de-
cide on a definite ,starting
line-up. Russell Cotton and
Richmond Rucker are stit!
vying for position at sec-
ond base while Dabney
Stuart and John Patterson
remain even choices for the
hot spot at third.

COACH TOM STEVENS

Trackmen Travel To
Citadel For Opener

By BOB GREEN

staff, will see extensive action,
with Lide working mostly in
relief,

George Hart, Shelbourne
Wallace, and Don Killian,
tho top hitters to return
from last year, are again
expected to carry the load
at the plate and have shown
continued improvement dur-
ing practice sessions.

. . ' The hitting of Dee Green and
Coach Heath Whittle’s cinder: pave page has carned them

to. meet the Citadel. in the sea ydition to their regular pitching
‘yobs. Dee Lide and veteran Al.

The probable lineup for the | len Moore, also on the mound

the 100 and 220-yard dashes

t
|

Contenders for 440-yard dis-|

Bill Davis, and Ed Garrett, and:

. Henry Brown, Ward McKeith-
en, and Jim Alexander will run

jaunt.
The hurdles will be handled

bright. In the field events Dale
Gramley and Dave Warden will
toss the shot and discus: Stuart.
Nickels and Walter Edwards
the javelin.

Manning the pole vault. lane
will be John Hite, Henry Pharr.
und Paul Erekman

Jim Bowness. Bremer; Mur:
vay, Thurman. and Janie wilt
provide talent in the . broad
:jump. Trials will be held to,
tictermine Cat. entrants in this
event.

High jumoing will be Bownes.
Bremer. and Huie,

Coach Whittle asserted that
the Citadel’s tracksters are

FORE” th A MEQIETERLO 18O0E MARe, COPYHIANT 1959 THE COCA-COLA COMPAD

BMOC”

*Big Man On Campus—yea man! He
treats the gals to Coke. Who can compete
with charm like that. So if you're 5'0"
and a little underweight, remember—you
don't have to be a football hero to be
popular. Just.rely on the good taste of
Coke. Put in a big supply today!

much improved and that he ex-
pected quite a bit of trouble
‘in Outpointing them.

Drink

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by

CHINESE FOR
DIAL ED 2 2238

3

THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is o registered trade-mork, @ 1936, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

“oe
OL ~ —f Graated by WC 4 exvotis Tebsece Compae’
Smoking was never like this before! Salem refreshes your taste just as a glorious
Spring morning refreshes you. To rich tobacco taste, Salem adds a surprise softness
that gives smoking new ease and comfort. Yes, through Salem’s pure-white, modern
filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed . . . smoke Salem!

Take a Puff... It’s Springtime
