PAGE FOUR

Belk To Be Filled
Up To Capacity

Again this year Belk Dormi-
tory will be filled to capacity
with an influx of girls during
the Homecoming weekend, Oc-
tober 24-26th. Two big reasons
account for this overerowded-

and the large number of alum-
ni, with their wives and dates,
coming for the weekend.

Mountains

Cabinet For Meeting

Attract

For two days last weekend the YMCA Cabinet hied

away to the mountains of

western North Carolina for

: : j the annual Fall Retreat at Montreat. Primary topics on
ness: the increased enrollment.) the agenda were discussion of the proposed “core” or-
ganization, reports from various Commission chairmen,

and a

brief rundown of the plans for the quadrennial Na-
!tional Student Assembly of YMCAs and, YWCAs at Ur-

Belk residents will get first) pana, Ilinois, during the coming Christmas vacation.

choice as to whose date will oc-:
cupy their individual rooms. |
They must register the name|
of the person whose date will'
occupy the room, whether he is’
a Belk resident or not.

Belk residents will register
in Mrs. Moore's office on Mon-
day, October 20. during chapel
period, from 2:00-4:30 p.m. and
from 7:00-8:00 p.m. They may
also register on October 21,
from 2:00-4:30 p.m.

Other students may sign up
on Wednesday, October 22, dur-
ing chapel period, from 2:00-
4:30 p.m. and from 7:00-9:00
p.m.

Girls must pay for their
rooms as required by state law.
The charge will be $3.00 for
two nights and $2.00 for one
night. |

Poll

(Continued From Page One)

Another commented that “it
is not unreasonable for the con-
trolling body to insist upon con-
ditions which guard its own po-
sition .... The U. S. Military
and Naval Academies are under
no obligation to appoint Com-
munists to their staffs.”

A man who opposed the rule
stated that the “primary ob-:
jection to limits imposed by the|
Trustees is that it will probably |
become increasingly difficult toy
obtain qualified teachers—any
such restrictions as these might
very: well make it impossible to
fill vacancies with qualified
men.”

2. Would you be opposee to
having any = non-Christians
(either adherents of some oth-
er faith, or of none) on the
Davidson faculty, if they were
Otherwise qualified as teach.
ers?

A. slight majority indicated
that they would not be opposed
to having non-Christians on the
Davidson faculty. with twenty
answering “yes” and nineteen
“no.” One man was undecided:
and two made qualifications to
their “no” answers: “Jews. per-
haps."* said one. and another in-
dicated that he would accept
only those who believed in some
other religion.

One professor ‘said. ‘I believe!
that the school community,
would profit by association with -
those who are not like them-,
selves. The ostrich tradition is

Dr. George Buttrick, Otts Lec-
turer of several years ago, to

“CORE” GROUP
The Spiritual Life Com

mission, under the direc-
tion of chairman Scott
Woodmansee, will assume-
primary responsibilty for
the initiation of the “core”
organization, built around
smail, voluntary study
groups which will be direct-
ed by the Spiritual life post
only to the extent of sug-
gested subjects for discus-
sion.

Many of the ideas for these
core groups and possible fra-
ternity retreats were suggested
in discussion with Jack Lewis.
speaker at the initial Y Mem-
bership meeting last week.
Lewis is director of the Chris-
tian Faith-and-Life Community
in Austin, Texas.

OTTS LECTURER

Charlie Roberts, supervising
the Religious Emphasis Week
program, stated plans to bring

Board of Trustees rule re
quiring that all members of
the departments of Bible and
Philosophy belong to the
Presbyterian Church, and that
they further satisfy the stan-
dards of the Presbyterian
Church, U.S., by answering
the questions put to candi-
dates for ordination as elder?
A slight majurity was op-
posed to this rule, with twenty-
two. answering “no,” and cigh-
teen answering “yes.” One pro-
fessor stated that “I see no rea-
son why members of Bible and
(especially) Philosophy depart-
ments should be on a propor-

A Y

tion different from that of oth-!

said that ‘this should. not. be
a Trustée requirement. At most)
it should be an administrative |
policy ‘that can be modified.”

5, The Charter and By-Laws
of the Board of Trustees
states that “at no time shall
there be more than one-
fourth of the inaugurated
professors who are not mem-
bers of some branch of the
Presbyterian Church.” Are
you in favor of this rule?

Answers
posed to the rule here, with
twenty-five answers of. “no,”
and fourteen “yes,” with one
undecided.

1

were heavily op-.

the campus for the first two
days of Religious Emphasis
Week, set for February 22-27,
1959. Several other eminent
theologians are being contacted
at present for possible appear-
ances that week.

100TH . YEAR

Tommy Smith, Vice-President
of the local Y. Southern Region-
al, and National YMCA organi-
zations, reported on the observ-
ance of this, the Y’s 100th an-
niversary, and then outlined the
program for the Quadrennial
Convention, which provisions
are being made for a number

jof delegates from the local Y

to attend.

Other Y news this week
concerns the fletest report
on the Membership Orive.
With two returns yet to be
tabulated, chairman Scott
Puckett announced that e
fotal of 607 members ap-
peared the nearest possible
approximation based on
figures already in. Also
based on present returns
is the $2,716.00 amount of
pledges via direct contri-
bution and weekly offer-
ings. This amount will be
augmented throughout the
year with loose Vesper of-
ferings.

Advanced Courses

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cadets Earn Salary
Of $47,986 Yearly

Davidson ROTC cadet officers
receive an annual salary of $47,-
986, according to figures re-
cently released in a letter from
Lt. Col. William L. Adams, Jr.
to President D. Grier Martin.

“To have this amount of stu-
dent aid, it would require a gift
to the college of $960,000 invest-
ed at five per cent,” the David-
son PMS&T told Mr Martin.

The cadet pay is part of a
yearly staff payroll of approxi-
mately $98,000. The local ROTC
department has $170,000 in gov-
ernment property.

The letter gave a‘class break-
down of cadet pay for the 144
students taking the advanced
course. The 74 seniors receive
a monthly salary of $27 for one
year, totalling $23,976.00 For
the 70 juniors, pay is broken
into two categories. The nine
months of the school year, they
also earn $27 monthly. The esti-
mate for summer camp pay.
based low to cover absences
when pay is lost. is $7.000 for|
the group.

The average Davidson ad-
vanced cadet is paid $700 dur-
ing his two year period with
the ROTC department. accord-
ing to Lt. Col. Adams.

The latest figures on this
year’s enrollment in the ROTC
basic and advanced courses
show 609 students in the mili-
tary department as compared
with 550 last year

Available To Frosh_

Advanced courses in several departments are open Duke
er departments.” Another man|tg freshmen who have the necessary preparation and. School:
ability in these fields. The courses are Humanities, |The Import
Physics 11-A, and several math sections.

GREAT LITERATURE

Dr. H. T. Lilly is teaching the
Humanities class this year. The
course is designed for the
freshmen who are ablest in
composition and literature. Ad-
mission is based on scores of.a
test given to all interested
freshmen during Orientation

- Week: There are fourteen men

in the class this year.

Dr. Lilly defines the course
as an attempt to offer a samp-
ling of. the greatest. literature
of the Western world. The class

\

given this fall to students who
, were interested in a major in
physics or engineering.

Dr Pietenpol invites all stu-|
dents who took this test to talk
| with him about the results,

The Mathematics Department |
allows freshmen who show out-
standing p.eparation and ‘ability
on a test given during Orien
tation Week to take sophomore
math. There are 15-20 fresh
men in these classes this year
They will take up analytical!

| guest ‘speaker will conclude the

| terests of the society's members

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1958

_ Political Parties

-uagitaw
eee

|

(Continued From Page One)

drafted the state Democratic
platforms.

In Chapel Tuesday morning,
each man will speak briefly,
setting forth his conception of
the importahce of “political ac-
tivity. At‘teight’ p.m. in the
Union Ballroom, each man will
speak for fifteen minutes, fol-
lowed by a panel discussion, in
which Professors W. P. Minter,
Paul Marrotte, and Ernest Pat-
terson will ask them questions
about the opinions they present.

PARTY ROLES

Mr. Cobb will speak on the
role of the Republican Party
in North Carolina, and Mr. Wil-
kinson will discuss the Repub
licans on a national level.

Mr. Wilson will talk about
the state activities of the Derho-
crats, while Mr. Ramsey will
present the national Democratic
viewpoint. After the panel dis-

The Court of Controt, under the leadership of John Nix meets out punishment to
recalcitrant freshman during its session last week. This scene could pass until another year
if the Freshman Class succeeds in defeating the Sophomores at the annual “Field Day.”

ANNUAL PHOTOS

Penrod To Address|Honor Platoon

(Continued From Page One)

Pre-Med Sociely ) JUNIORS von aa

were selected from this year’s Mon. & Tues. cussion, an informal coffee hour
Dr. Kenneth E. Penrod of sophomore class on the basis of 12:00-5:30 will follow.

Duke Medieal School will speak|tpeir Suuimenees to work, The SENIORS This political program, plan-

at the A.E.D. meeting Tuesday.| remaining five cadets are fresh- Wed. & Thurs. ning for which was directed by

October 21. For the first meet-|men, who were given a chance 12:00-5:30 Pete Sterling, is only the first

ing of the year the society has}t be in the platoon, because ALL CLASSES in a projected “Great Issues

invited the 56 freshman pre- canine high school military eas a0 Series.”” Other subjects which

med majors as guests. A ban- ° . ; the organization hopes to pre

quet dinner will be served ati patton chose ‘Jerry Cole, SPEC DED sent this year are economics

7:00 p.m. in the ballroom of the and international relations.

Union.

George Blalock, and Bill Deane
as squad leaders. These men
hold the rank of sergeant, while
all the other cadets in the pla-
toon are corporals,

EE

AIR-CONDITIONED
FULL BATHS
| INDIVIDUAL HEAT

FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS

RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each

The banquet will be followed
by a business session and in-
troduction of the chemistry and
biology department members.
Davidson's pre-med advisor, Mr.
William. O. Puckett, will speak
to his counselees; then the

High morale and hard work
has been outstanding thus far
and Cadet Lieutenant Patton is
quite pleased with the progress
of. the platoon. The desire to
look sharp is evident from the
neat dress and well-polished
| brass and shoes. ‘

SL RS

evening’s program.

Dr. Penrod is a member of
the Physiclogy Department. at

University Medical ;
His address, entitled] On the schedule of appear-
f Pre Medical anees for the Honor Platoon
" ance of Fre Medica" i this year are the Charlotte Ca-
Education.” is aimed at the in-|rousel Parade. a half-time
show for the football game with
;Richmond, and several other
| performances.

CAROUSEL PARADE |

15 Minutes From Davidson

and guests.
‘ |
of the honorary pre med socie-} Although, according to Pat-
ly. has announced the pro-,'0": there are a humber of

. _{small mistakes which still’ re-
grams for the remaining months: main to be cleared up, tte rate
of the semester as follows: :ini- of jmprovement indicates that
tiation of Junior Class candi-; the platoon will soon be “ready
dates for membership: a ten to go.” Patton hopes that this
hour Red Cross series in first year’s Honor Platoon will not
aid instructio?: medical. films! only keep up the good work of
on surgical te hniques: and dis-! past years, but better the rec-
cussion of various topics .of in-:ords of previous Honor Pla:
erest fo the yre-m = d members. : loons,

Students Free With Parents

The Oaks Motor Court

344 South Main Street Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.

Richard Brubaker. president

Owners and‘ Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

one of man’s greatest handi-| 6 Are you in favor of the will study such works as geometry during the first se! — . —_——— -
caps, and most group crimes are present rule that requires the ,Homer’s “Iliad.”  Goethe’s mester and calculus during sec | @ 4
the result of it.” Another said President of the Gollege and (-Faust,” Shaw's “Man and Su- ond semester. Freshmen who
that non-Christians would not be each full professor to take an perman”. Steinbeck’s “Grapes take this course earn six hours,
opposed “especially if it is part oath stating certain religious |of Wrath”, and Voltaire's “Can- toward a math major.
of an educational policy and a beliefs during their inaugura: | didc.” * Dr. McGavock announced tha’ : A PURE WHITE MODERN FILTER
solution to difficult personnel tion at Commencement? (A | SETTER PREPARATION the level of preparation of in | oo Tan nCTnanl
problems.” ~ ' copy of the oath was includ: | Thirty-one students are tak-' coming freshmen has risen so: Is only the beginning ofa WINSTON
3. Are you in favor of the ed with this question.) _|ing an advanced course in. high in the last ten years that.
Board of Trustees rule that | A slight majority favored this; physies which is being offered -Math 10 will be climinated from
“mo person shall be eligible | rule. with twenty-two answer: this year for the first time. Most the curriculum next year. Re: j
for election as President of jing “yes” and eighteen “no."| of these students are freshmen.! mediat math, however. will be! J
Davidson College unless he is | One professor who answered in| Admission was based on tests offered in summer school
a member of the Presbyterian |the affirmative qualified his —_—_——_
Church and he shall not be | opinion with the statement that
eligible for inaugueration un- | the oath “could best be handled
less he is a member of the |at a faculty meeting or a joint In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
Presbyterian Church in the | Trustee-faculty group. and not ,
United States?” before a general group or at at the Famous Open Kitchen for @ .. .
Faculty members answering| Commencement.” Another. who
the poll came out in favor of} opposed the rule; said. “these!
this rule, with twenty-three ans-| questions could be put to a man| cou ni Ss
wering “yes.” sixteen “no.” and at the time of initial employ-1
one undecided.. One man in fa-| ment. They certainly do not be-
vor of the requirement said/long at a Commencement exer-
that “since the President must/cise before a strange audience” { the famous OPEN KITCHEN
work rather closely with South-| In addition to these questions, | ;
ern Presbyterians I believe that each man was asked to indicate 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C. |
he should be of this denomina-| whether he was a Presbyterian. : ;
tion, for practical reasons on-,a full professor, or a. teacher, . ; Winston puts Its
ly.” of either Bible or Philosophy. ! ‘ a
Another professor, who op-} Upon comparison of this in. A FILTER-BLEND
posed the rule, said. ‘I agree|formation with the answers to, a -
that the President should be a| the six questions, there did not up front...fine, flavorful
member of some evangelical! appear to be any significan in} omin : i or
church, but to insist that he be connection between the faculty. a a, tobaccos, specially Processed
a member of the Presbyterian! members’ opinions and their, for filter smoking
Church at the time of his elec. status as Presbyterians or non-
tion seems unreasonably re-: Presbyterians, full professors or,
strictive and might. under cer: men of lower ranks, and mem-|
tain conditions, penalize the bers or non-members of the Bi-| BRING YOUR TUX
college.” ble and Philosophy depart. ‘
4. Are you in favor of the | ments. :
| SUITS AND TUX SHIRTS
auviard
JACKSON CLEANERS <
: g
2.
THE WORLD'S FINEST RECORD CHANGER TO FRESHEN Z
Free Literature Upon Request THE IMPRESSION Z
| IN. =.
Distributed by i
|
: Sis ox ver
Jackson Cleaners load - ae _——_ - ein te id I. 4. Neynolds Tob. Co.,
2 ‘Winston-Salem, N.C,
Across From Ivey's Sth St. Entrance OPPOSITE THE GULF STATION WINSTON TASTES GOOD wea cicarerre sHoutn!
e

26 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.

1

