Sixty Alumni Return For
“College” Today and Tomor-

row!

Ch

yr Gautdsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Jones Assesses
IFC Progress
(Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

~ossibility Of New .

FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1958

No. 25-

. resident —y

May 15, Says Committee Head
et i Fdilr oi) Selection Narrows To

Cutting Defeats Nix for

Freshman Adviser Post.

Tom Cutting, a member of Phi Delta Theta Fra-
ternity from Fort Smith, Arkansas, edged out John Nix
for the position of Freshman Adviser anda seat on the
after Chapel Tuesday.

Student Council, in voting

In elections Wednesday
Charlie -Rutherford, Richard
Brubaker, Bob Huffaker, and
Sam Sloan won seats on the
Student Council representing
the Senior Class, while Bob
Livingston and John Huie will
represent the Junior Class and
Spiro Macris the Sophomores.

Cutting served as secretary-
treasurer of the student body
his sophomore year and this
year was vice-president. He was
on the Student Council both
years. He is a pre-ministerial
student and a history major.
This year he was leader of the
Freshman Discussion Groups.

Rutherford, a member of
Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, -:e-
ceived the largest number of
votes for Student Council Rep-

Cumming Receives
Research Grant

Dr. W. P. Cumming, Profes-
sor of English, has been award-
ed a  Guggen-

resentative and will conse-
quently undertake the duties of
vice-president of the Senior
Class" in addition to those of
the Council.

Brubaker and Huffaker tied
for second place and the posi-
tion of secretary-treasurer of

(Continued On Page Four)

Committee Studies
Drinking, Parties

A new trustee-faculty-student
committee held its first meet-
ing in order to discuss the
drinking rule and fraternity
after-dance parties.
Trustees on the committee
are Mr. Frank Hall of Belmont,
Mr. George King of Briston,
Tennessee, and Mr: Harold Mec-
Keithen of Winston-Salem.
Faculty members are Dr. C. J.
Pietenpol, chairman of the com-
mittee, Dean J. C. Bailey, and
Dr. W. G. McGavock.

The student body was rep-
resented by Ross Smyth, John
and Don Carmi-

af

James W. Bradley of Atlanta, National President of Sigma Nu Fraternity, presents the
charter of the Eta Alpha Chapter of Sigma Nu to Walter O’Briant, » junior who has
served as Commander of Eta Aipha this year. The members of Eta Alpha were initiated into
Sigma Nu at a banquet last Staurday night in the Union Ballroom, after being pledged to

the national group since last summer.

$10,000 GIFT

Eta Alpha Initiated Into

oe : ‘Wildcat Handbook

| George Ramsey, a rising sen-
‘jor, was named editor of: the
Wildcat Handbook by the YMCA
; Cabinet and Board of Directors

Ramsey selected the follow-'
assist with the editing of this

, hess manager; Julian Alderidge
and Prentice Brown, associate

] editors; Dave Robinson, Bill
‘ Hellier, Jim Bootle, ‘Vernon
Broyles, ‘and Henry Ramsey,

members of the editorial board;
and Bob Cole, art supervisor.
According to the editor. the
Handbook will be somewhat re-
vised before going to press this
June. Entirely excluded from
the new manual will be the;t
| Student Constitution and By-
li - (Continued On Page Four)

cammittee, which was appoint-
ed last May by the Board of
Trustees shortly after the an-
nouncement of the retirement }"
of President Emeritus John
Cunningham,
reached a decision.

Richardson Foundation
Helps Foreign Students

Several, States LaFar

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“You never know when lightning is going to strike,”

the special Board of Trustees committee for choosing a
nominee for President of Davidson, during a telephone
publication: Henry Brown, busi- interview with two members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff
Tuesday morning.

at their meeting on April 21.!commented Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia, chairman of
t
~ ing men to be on his staff and

the Board of Trustees
Mr. LaFar stated that the
committee had been working -
hard at its task, but that “We're
ot going to rush this matter.
R. It is too serious to set a dead-
line. It’s too serious a matter
to rush into a compromise de-
: cision.”
y" thet thr there is a “possibill-| phe committee is composed of
" that the committce will have Mr. LaFar; Rev, Fred Stair, of

Mr. LaFar reveated that his

has not yet

i nominee to be announced May Hickory; Rev, J. McDowell
15, at the regular meeting Of! Richards, of Atlanta; Mr. J.

Spencer Love, of Greensboro:
and Dr. James P. Hendrix, of
Durham.

Questions asked during the
interview, and Mr. LaFar‘s an-
swers, are as follows:

O. “Would you be willing to
say that your committee will
have a presidential nominee by

Eleven foreign exchange students will enter David-| she Board of Trustees meeting
son in September for one year of study under sponsor-|on May 15?”

exchangees,

ed.the college this year.
Announcement of the

ship of the Richardson Foundation of Greensboro. The
representing ten countries,
grants covering all expenses from a $76,500 fund award-

re- science or psychology. A.

A. “No, I can't say. that we
will receive| Will.”

Q. “Would you rule out the
possibility of a nominee by
then?”

; “No.” >
ULRICH SCHOENING, a pre-| @, “Then, at this moment the

cipients of the grants come
early this week from Mr. D.
Grier Martin, College Treas-

heim Fellowship Kuykendall,
for historical

studies of the

ministerial candidate from Ger-j committee does not have a
many, who will major in Bible, nominee?”

Fellowship of Sigma Nu

chael. Mr. Martin sat with the
committee as an ex-officio mem-

Sr PSS

discovery and ber. On Saturday, April 26, thirty members of Eta Alpha Fraternity were initiatea!¥e™. Martin expressed David-/History or Political Science. (Continued On Page Four)
exploration of The main purpose of the| into the Brotherhood of Sigma Nu P 4 son’s appreciation to the Foun-| EBBE MOGENS JUSTESEN, _
the North meeting was to gather informa- . . dation and stated that the ar-lof Odense, Denmark, who will
A 3 , : abi The initiation ceremony was, Present. The Executive Secre-, lowing the banquet. ival of the Richards hol-|stud ! P d the-
merican con: tion concerning the drinking ; . . . rival of the Richardson schol-jstudy languages and mathe
ti A ; conducted by members of Del-|tary of Sigma Nu, Richard R.| The major address was de- “will id tuni-| mati F ion f arb A ears
nent during problem and the after-dance Ys of Fletch ted ; ars “will provide an opportuni-|matics, in preparation for a ca-
ta Chapter of the University of Fletcher. acted as Master of }livered by Raymond J. Jeffreys,ity for Davidson students tolreer as a cheniical engineer

the 16th and Cumming

17th centuries.

Dr. Cumming and his wife
will Jeave for Europe in
August. Dr. Cumming will
spend ‘58-59 doing research in
the libraries and archives of
various countries.

The John S. Guggenheim’
Foundation awards fellowships
in research and in the creative
arts to persons of proved abili-
ty, who have distinguished
themselves in their particular
field.

This award is the first Gug-
genheim Fellowship awarded to
a Davidson College faculty
member.

Dr. Cumming has published
two books this Spring on the

parties. No action was taken
and no recommendations will be
made to the trustees as yet.
Ross Smyth said that the com-
mittee will not meet again be-
fore the next meeting of the
trustees on May 15.

In addition to this new com-
mittee, the Faculty Fraternity
Committee, headed by Dr. Mce-
Gavock, is also investigating
after-dance parties. The  fra-
ternity presidents have also
formed a committee, hoping to
work with the faculty and trus-
tees in order to retain the right
of the fraternities to control
their own parties.

According to Dr. McGavock,
both the faculty and trustees
hope to be able to work direct-
ly with the fraternities in

Ceremonies at the program fol- (Continued On Page Four)

Fraternity Presidents
Argue‘PartyProblems’

By BRUCE BROOKS
Davidsonian News Editor

Newly-elected presidents of Davidson's twelve so-
cial fraternities met Wednesday morning during Chapel
period, under the sponsorship of Bill Pomeroy, Bill Bon-
durant, and Gil Grossman, to discuss a solution to the
after-dance party situation now facing the fraternities.

Pomeroy presided at the

meeting and presented to the; Faculty Fraternity Committee. ,zenship potential.
new presidents two proposals} The first proposal involves a/ Scheduled for arrival at the

which had been discussed Tues-|change in the wording of the|college in September are:
day night at a meeting of this! pledge that fraternity officers} KAI VAINO OLAVI PERNAN-

broaden themselves through a} WIECHER BERGSMA,

[She of contacts.” _Limberg, Hotland. whose career "Next Monday

South Carolina and was attend-
ed by various Sigma Nu alum.
ni representing colleges in this
area.

Presently studying at David- j witl be economics. This year's issue of Quips and

HORAcLIO BELTKAN DAMM. I Cranks, annual publication of
of Monterey, Mexico, who plans] payidson’s student -bedy, will be
a physics major. distributed to students in the

HERMANN LAIMER, of Salz-}| College Union, Monday. May 5.
burg, Austria, who plans a busi-| Dave Bradford, editor of the
ness career after studying cco-| 1957-58 edition. announced that
nemics. the new sissue of the yearbook

WILLIE KARL WILHELM jwill have a “new look.” Each
BARENTHIN, of  Stockholm,/of the four sections of the an-
Sweden, who contemplates ajnual will be preceded by nar-
career in the Swedish diplomat-|ration telling the. story of Da-
ic corps, after study of langu-|vidson's year of change — the
ages, history, and_ political | 1957-58 season of transition and
science. _ {expansion at Davidson College.

UBIRATAN MOURA de FRE-| Bradford, speaking of the an-
ITAS, of E. do Rio, Brazil, a so-| nual, stated. “This year's book
cial science major who plans{is to be read asx well as casual-
for a diplomatic career. ly scanned. I hope all students

son are two Richardson ex-
change scholars, Sung Kyu Kim,
and Byung Kook Kwon, whose
scholarships will be renewed
for 1958-1959.

The incoming: Richardson
scholars range in age from
seventeen to twenty-one. They
were selected by the college
with the aid of the Institute of
International Study in New
York City. Selections were
based on academic excellence,
proficiency in English, and citi-

During the ceremony, next
year’s officers were installed;
these include the following: W.
H. O'Briant, Commander; G. N.
Grana, Lt. Commander; E. E.,
Wilson, Recorder; F. C. Landis,
Treasurer; H. M. Epes, Asst.;
Recorder-Treasurer; D. N. Mac-
Kinnon, Chaplain; R. Y. Bald-
win, Alumni Contact Officer;
T. E. Kernan, Reporter; P. E.
Morrisett, Marshall; W. R. Bo-
land, Sentinel; B. J. Shore, IFC.

Following the formal initia-
tion. a banquet was held in the
Union Ballroom; members of
the Faculty Fraternity Commit-

A

early exploration of the South-
east and on historical carto-

graphy.

ce ey

lem.

reaching a solution to this prob-

tee and representatives of the

other campus fraternities were McGavock, chairman of

year's presidents and Dr, W. G.| must sign after all dance week-/ EN, of Helsinki,

the plans to major in political ! (Continued On Page Four)

Finland, who
(Continued On Page Four)

PIERRE. WYSS-CHODAT, of|will take time to read Quips
and Cranks.”

ODK Selects Thirteen for Membership

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped thir-
teen members of the College community into member-
ship Thursday morning.

The sorebacks included six juniors, five seniors,
and two members of the faculty. These men were
recognized because of their superior contributions in
one or more of the five phases of college activity re-
garded by the fraternity in their selection of members.

Three men were chosen for their work in stu-
dent government activities. John Kuykendall.is presi-
dent of the Student Body, having served last year as
its second vice-president. He is a member of Phi Delta
Theta Fraternity.

Tom Cutting, a fraternity brother of John’s in
Phi Delta Theta, recently was elected Freshman Ad-
visor in a hard-fought contest. He is retiring vice-

John Caldwell Tom Cutting Roy Gilbert

John

president of the student council, and was Its secre-
tary-treasurer his sophomore year.

Roy Gilbert steps into the job of senior class
president from the corresponding office in the junior
class. Gilbert climbed another step on the ladder of
success a few weeks ago when. he moved from the
vice-presidency of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity to
the presidency

Three men were honored for their work in pub-
lications. Grier Davis, a senior. responded to the
tap by a three foot leap into the air. Grier has edited
the college humor magazine Scripts ‘n Pranks.

Laurens Walker, the editor of this paper, was al-
so chosen. He has served as managing editor of the
DAVIDSONIAN and has recently been installed as
President of Beta Theta Pi.

Kuykendalf Laurens Walker Craig Wall

Grier Davis

John Caldwell will edit next year’s annual, Quips
and Cranks. John is the retiring secretary of the Pub-
lications Board and has worked on this year’s annual
staff.

Three other men chosen have been active on the
athletic field. Bill Price was captain of this year’s Wild-
cat football team. Bill was President of the “D’’ Club.
and treasurer of the Honorary Fraternity Councit.

His successor as team captain, junior Craig Wall,
was also selected. Wall has been secretary-treasurer of
Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and is currently its
President.

From the diamond came senior Shelbourne Wal-
lace. Wallace is captain of the 1958 baseball team. He
holds offices in the Business Economies Association.
and in Kappa Alpha Order. He is Cadet Lt. Col. in

Bob Jones

Ken Forester

Bill Price

the R.O.T.C. department.

Bob Jones, retiring president of the Interfra-
ternity Council, was also tapped, This Council. under
Jones’ leadership. Has been one of the niost active
groups on campus. Jones is also noted ioe his co-
authorship of the sometimes-controversial tolumn in
this paper, ‘Coffee Break.”

Ken Forrester, a senior. was the businessman
chosen. He is vice-president of the Business-Economics
Association, and has been on the business staff of the
annual, the DAVIDSONIAN, and was Membership and
Gift Fund Chairman of the Y.M.C.A. In the local
military, Ken was Regimental Staff. Major.

From the faculty. Dr. Charles Ratliff and Dr.
George Abernethy were selected. Dr. Ratliff is head
of the Economics Department and Dr. Abernethy of
the Philosophy Department.

a=

-”
—

“4 !
ak

Dr. Rattiff

4

Shelbourne Wallace Dr. Abernethy
