PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Graduate File Keeps
Office Staff Busy

By ANDY BLAKE
Davidsonien Feature Writer
A visit to the College Office of Alumni and Public
Relations is an amazing revelation of the vast amounts
of information about Davidson and her gentlemen which

| AN IMPORTANT VISITOR
wi | The new wing of the Grey
Memorial Library, now under
construction, is scheduled for
completion by the middle of
September. This section de-
signed by A. G. Odell, Jr., afd

associates of Charlotte, will
then be ready for use during

b

ite

Saturday, May 10, will be a big day for nine fra-
ternities, as they hold their annual spring functions.

The Betas are having ap in
formal party at Tuck’s Tavern
in Concord. They plan to spend
the afternoon swimming before
going to the party in the eve-
ning.

are kept in files.

The intricacy of the filing
system would surely confuse
anyone but the office staff.

This staff manages to use the!

files to keep in touch with Da-
vidson alumni concerning items
ranging from those of a seri-
ous nature to birthday cards.
The office’s card files are di-
vided into three groups. The
working file, consisting of
name, address, birth date, and
occupation of students, is filed
in triplicate: alphabetically,!

mendous job), mailing a month-
ly bulletin to 7,500 alumni, is-|+
suing congratulations and con-|+
dolences, and collect newspa-|i
per clippings. The office is al-
so responsible for 38 alumni
chapters.

Davidson College owes many
thanks to the people who keep|'
her alumni and her friends in-
formed of her progress. Mr.1'
John L. Payne is the staff di-
rector, and Dan LaFar is his| —-
assistant. Mrs. Halyburton, Mrs.

z

geographically, and by class. Blackwell, and Mrs. Thompson a
The permanent file is a similar|complete the staff. These are

file, listing every person, living|/the people who work to keep

Mr. 0. Grier Martin, College Treasurer, converses in the College Union lobby with Mr.

the 1958-59 academic year. tt Charlotte, the Sigma Nu's

The new wing will cost some- holding their White Rose
what less than one-half million|Ball at the Old Coach House
dollars, which exceeds the sum|Restaurant. The formal dance
given last year by an anony-)will be preceded by a banquet
mous donor. and the crowning of their
Queen.

t

tava

At present the library contains
almost 73,000 volumes. By next} The Phi Gams are holding

their Fiji Island Ball on the
September the number of vol- "
jumes will have been increased Catawba River. The University

to around 75,000. of North Carolina chapter will
, be invited. They are wearing
Both the old and new por-|Fiji Island costumes and leis
tions have capacities of 100,000) from Hawaii.
volumes each. The library to-| The Phi Delts will have a
gether with the new addition|Blue and White formal banquet
will not, however, house more|and dance at the Selwyn Ball
than about 150,000 books, since}Room in Charlotte. The Dream

i a 1
, a
|

Charles A. Dana, President of the Dana Foundation and donor of $400,000 for the construc-

or dead. who has matriculated, pavidson in ‘the minds of the
at Davidson College. This file|
is in duplicate, alphabetically
and by class. The birthday file
used to send congratulatory
cards completes the card files.

In the office's huge array of
jacket files each student and
each alumnus has a folder con-
taining his entrance question-
aire, any newspaper clippings.
and correspondence with. the
college. In Chambers basement
files of inactive and deceased
alumni: are still kept.

There. are many other files;
general files, mat files (faculty
publicity). engraving files, and
photograph files. This system
is quite enough work for sev-
eral people.

The office staff of five has
the responsibility of keeping
all addresses up to date (a tre-

Gehring Resigns;
Goes To Valparaiso

Mr. Philip Gehring, assistant|three people.

professor of music, has an-

nounced his resignation from |
the Davidson College faculty..
This resignation will become ef-| busy. group, |
fective as of the end of thejbig people, so it takes time.”

present semester.

Mr. .Gehring has served in|among the men you have now,
present capacity for the past\or wilt you have to get some-
received body outside this group?”
his Bachelor of Arts and his!

six years. He

Bachelor of Music degrees from

Oberlin and his Master’s from|in.”

Syracuse.

Mr. Gehring is going to Val-|a strong possibility of there be-, SCRIPTS ‘N PRANKS have tomorrow morning. The _lec-
paraiso University in Valpa-|ing a minister, an educator, or{been chosen by recently elect: tures and discu sions will. be
serve|a laymen?”

raiso, Indiana. He will
there as ‘assistant professor of
music and organist at chapel.

Students Organize
Local SDA Chapter

A chapter of Students

tional student affiliate of Americans for Democratic Ac-
tion, has been formed at Davidson.

At an organizational meeting:
Tuesday night, twelve David-|!
son students became the char-
ter members of the Davidson|
College Chapter of SDA, after
a brief explanation of SDA’s
principles and practical goals
by Mr. Gordon Graham, Nation-
al Executive Secretary of SDA.

College approval has been
given to the formation of the
Davidson SDA, and a charter
from the national organization
was given to the group by Mr.
Graham.

At present, the members of
SDA are Don Carmichael,
Charles Chastain. Ben Farley,
Charles Helms, Bob Jones, John
McVay, Maurice Ritchie, Allan
Smyth, Don Stein, Bill White-

|

people whose minds were

trained here.

New President

(Continued From Page One)

A. “No, we don’t.”

Q. “Has the possibility of the
president being a person now
at Davidson been eliminated?”

A. “No.”

Q. “Have you made en offer
to anybody yet?’

A. “Not yet.”

Q. “What if there is no nomi-
nee by May 15? Then how will
it be announced when there is| IFC President Vernon Ander-
one?” son in a kickoff meeting of

A. “A special meeting of the|the council last Wednesday
Board of Trustees would be|/night urged the group to move
called.” toward conclusions on what he

Q. “Is the chief problem in|calied “these major problems”

funds for the new dormitory

Major Problems

Top-priority projects for the
1958-59 Interfraternity Council
will be decisions concerning
preferential bidding and Rush
Week procedures for the com
ing year.

‘deciding on a man within the) confronting the IFC before Sep-

committee, or is it in getting| tember.
the consent of the man you

choose?”
A. “This committee is very,for IFC controt of rush date

hard working, but it has been confirmation and expressed the

slow in getting down to two orjhope that preferential bidding
I dont think J[/could be considered for next

can say we've been held back|Year’s rush program.

by lack of harmony in the ; S
committee's work. But it’s a|Chairman of a committee to

system.
Q. “Will the final choice be

Scripts 'n Pranks
Staff Announced

Officers

A. “I would hope we wouldn’t
have any new parties brought

Q. “Would you say there is for next year's

ed editor, Bob Cole.

A. “Yes. He’s almost got to

Tom Kernan, three-year vet-
be one of these.” y

eran of the publication, is the
new co-editor. Carter Daniel, al-
so a rising senior, will become
executive editor. Daniel. noted
'for his “sadistic humor” and ac-
tive participation in this year's
D Club Foolies, will contribute
much of the light material.

The new assistant editors.
Tony Huggins and Ed Spivey,
are both new-comers to work
on the magazine.

for Democratic Action, na-

The rest of the staff will con-
sist of Dave Gillis, business
manager; Charlie Rose, pho-

Party Problems tographer; Jim Holmes. circu

(Continued From Page One) fiation manager: and Joe Mil-
ends. The new pledge would|ner, assistant to the editor.

specify the hours that the after-
\
Eta Alpha

dance party included and would
(Continued From Page One)

require each officer signing the
pledge to be present for. the
entire party.

Pomeroy pointed out that

some objectionable conduct was|# member of Sigma Nu at Mount
in some instances,|Union College, author of sev-

occurring,
after some of the officers had| Fal books, and a former news-
lieft, and that this could be cor-; Paper columnist, editor, and

rected by +having them stay un-| foreign correspondent.

til after the party was over. James W. Bradley, Regent of

The second part of the pro-|Sigmna Nu, presented the new
posal presented by Pomeroy| chapter's Charter” and

sell, Gerald Wilson, and Willard deals with discouraging joint}nounced the decision of the

Wolfe.

At a brief meeting of the|ties held for profit-making pur-jpha Chapter ten thousand dol-!
membership Wednesday morn-| poses. works of Shostakovich, Mous-

after-dance parties and all par-|High Council to grant Eta Al-

This year’s fraternity|lars to furnish its new lodge.

tion of a new science building to house the Departments of Physics end Biology. Mr. Dana’s
grant was announced fast week, with the stipulation that the College provide the additional

New IFC Sees Two | Alumni

Anderson outlined a program |

Richard Brubaker was named

and we're after|study the preferential bidding

an:

much of the new wing will be/Girl of the fraternity will be
used for offices and study|crowned. C. A. McKnight, edi-
areas, which will bring the num-|tor of the Charlotte Observer,
ber of carrels available for stu-|will speak. Alumni in the area
dents up to seventy-five. are invited to attend.
. . The SPE’s are holding their
. The library at present is us annual Charlie’s Day, at which
ing $20,000 from the Margaret, 4) the SPE chapters in North
C. Thompson Fund to supple-|anq South Carolina gather at
ment the regular appropriation|Chapel Hill to have a softball
for the purchase of books. First |tournament. After the ball game
used this year, this sum will be there will be a party followed
three-year period by a supper. The Davidson chap-
spread over a year perioe-/ter has won the tournament for
Major changes within thelthe past five years, and if it
basement of the present library/wins this time it will retire
will be made along with the |the championship cup at Da-
construction of the new wing.|Vidson for the second time.
The Sigma Chi’s are holding
their Sweetheart Ball, a formal
dance, at the Radio Center in
Charlotte. After the banquet
a Sweetheart will be crowned.

The Pikas’ Dream Girl Ban.

to accommodate the projected increase in enrollment by 1960.

Play ‘College’
During The Weekend

By SAM RILEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“If I were only young again... " How often have

‘you heard these familiar words?
This wish is being realized;and later a period of informal|/The seminar rooms which are|
by approximately sixty men to-|discussion between alumni and presently located on the south-
day — Davidson gentlemen of faculty. Weekend “college end of the second floor will be
days gone by. They are break- men” will spend tonight in the
ing the age barrier for two days, Guest House. moved to the basemeht.
to become college students; During their stay, partici-
ence again in Davidson's first;pants will no doubt note a re-
‘Alumni College. markable shortage of young

The “capsule curriculum” of-:men on campus. Gentlemen, let .
fered to the alumni is broken me explain: seminar rooms will open onto
down into four sessions. Dur-| This is the vernal season, a]this area. A large reading room
ing each session the partici season of birds and bees. This.' similar to that of the modern
Pant selects one class from alsirs. is the reason behind OUF Fiction room will replace the
choice of four. yhalf-deserted campus. . .

These classes are arranged; Remember that day not too | Seminar rooms upstairs.
so as to offer the alumnus a muny ycars ago when you cut |
diverse program in natural Saturdzy. classes and left early | hazard, smoking has not been
seiehce, social science, lan-.to see your girl? You remem- . . .
guage, fine arts, and religion—a ber, you raseal . . . permitted in the seminar

rooms. In the new basement

two day liberal arts education.: A t lad th
A total of seventeen choices t any rate. we are gla at seminar rooms each individual
teacher using the rooms will

in classes is available. Three ¥°' have taken a sip from thei
: Fountain of Youth and are hap-

or four regular college seniors py to have you as “one of the establish the smoking rules for

bovs” for the weekend. ‘his class.

Most of the. space in the base-
ment wil! be converted into one
large smoking room. The

Previously. because of fire

| 1318 W. Morehead

will sit in on each class,
; This brief academic program
,Wwill be held this afternoon and

conducted by some nineteen Da-
ividson professors.

{ One -of the new fraternity
‘houses will be the site of a
buffet supper tor.gnt. The. sup-,
per will be followed by a band
concert in the Student Union

Band Prepares For
Spring Concert

The Davidson College Con-
cert Band will present its an-
nual Spring Concert in Cham-
bers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m.,
| Friday evening, May 2. The pro-
gram is being presented with-
out charge as a part of the 11th
Annual Davidson College ‘Fine
Arts Festival,’ now drawing to
a close.

The guest conductor will be
Captain James C. Harper, dircc-
tor of the nationally acclaimed
Lenoir High School Band of Le-
noir, N. C., and one of the
most outstanding Davidson
tmusic alumni.

Music to be heard on the pro-
gram includes Torelli’s “Sin-
fonia No. 6," the Farandole
ifrom “L'Arlesienne Suite Na.
2" by Saint-Saens. Bach's “Little
Prelude and Fugue in G
iminor,” and selections from the

‘sorgsky and Faure. The Brass

ing, Dr. Ernest Patterson, of presidents decided Tuesday that
the Economics Department, was|the policy of holding joint fra-
elected Faculty Advisor to thejternity after-dance parties was
group. Maurice Ritchie was;hurting the reputation of the
elected temporary chairman. of College and of the individual
the chapter, until a constitution! fraternities concerned because
can be adopted and permanent|of previous behavior at similar
officers elected for next year. | parties in the past.

Dr. George Labban. Jr., Chap- Ensemble directed by Mr. John
ter adviser, presented the fra. Satterfield will be featured on
ternity a gavel, the gift of Col.: the program.

John D. Sapp. Mr. Eric Dixon, ! The Davidson College Music
representing Milton L. Draper,: Department will present the fi-
presented a Bible in memory ,nal Student Recital of the year
of John M. Lynch. Jat 8:15 p.m., Tuesday evening.

The local chapter of SDA
hopes to co-operate with the na-
tional
(Americans for Democratic Ac-
tion) in spreading liberal ideas

Also participating in the pro-
It was also acknowledged that: gram were Dean John C. Bailey.

SDA and with ADA|it is becoming more and morei Jr.. Acting President Dr. C. J.

difficult to find facilities suit-|Pietenpol, and Dr. George -Sta-
able for after-dance parties be-} ples.
cause of the reputation David-

May 6th; in Chambers Auditor-
ium.

A varied program of organ
music, vocal selections. piano
numbers, woodwind and brass
lsolos will be heard.

on such matters an racial inte- a . :
gration, labor unions, civil son fraternities are getting in
liberties (especially academic neighboring towns and because
freedom), and disarmament, and |°! the legal crack-down on state
to support these principles by alcoholic beverage taw viola-
concrete, practical action:on a/"0"S-
local level. Manfred Emmgich will serve
SDA: has been concentratedjas chairman of the new presi-

The program is open ‘o the
public without charge.

FILTERS

You get a more

Cutting Defeats effective filter

(Continued From Page One)

> ?
the Senior Class. Brubaker is a R on todays L*M A bleed of promis gaalilp copaoclts
member of Alpha Tau Omega] RAMSEY Look for the patent number .++.| ca manecg ihrou meso

Fraternity.

Tb Mure Se UN Pat A 2sOkEH

TR ween FR amon TY”

bt ub

Ve

«
%

5

Wooery s wveas vosaceo co. / :

| You | be sittin on top of the world when you change fo

e

ann Ok
: . . in. 3

and the pledge awards will be
presented.

The Kappa Sig funetion is
at the City Club in Charlotte.
The banquet and dance are in-
formal. Alumni in this area are
invited.

At the Elk’s Club ia Char-
lotte the ATO's will hold their
White Tea Rose Ball. After the
banquet the Sweetheart will be
crowned. The dance which fol-
lows is formal.

Richardson

(Continued From Page One)
Geneva, Switzerland, who will
specialize in American Govern-
ment and Constitution.

MANUEL ANTONIO DIAZ, of
Patilla, Panama, the youngest of
the students at seventeen, who
will major in Biology.

‘Killer's’ Defense
To Discuss Law

Mr. Tom Page, who served as
the court-appointed defense
lawyer in both of the murder
trials of Frank Wetzel, will lead
a round-table discussion next
Wednesday night, May 7.

Primary topic of discussion
will be the profession of law.
Mr. Page will also answer any
questions concerning the recent

trials of Frank Wetzel. Students .

who are interested in criminal
law will find the discussion es-
pecially valuable,

The round-table discussion
will be held in the Ballroom
of the Student Union at 8:00

quet, also formal, is to be held|p.m. The meeting will be in-
in Belmont. After the crowning | formal and will be followed by
of the queen, the scholarship a coffee hour.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Charlotte, N. C.

iM

FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1958 _

||New Wing Doubles\Nine Fraternities Plan
“\Library Capacity |Spring Functions

primarily in the Northeast, andjdents for co-ordination of any
the formation of the Davidson|future action. They will meet; Livington and Huie are ATO
chapter is part of SDA’s ex-jagain this spring and once in|and Phi Delt. respectively. Mac-
pansion into other regions. Ex-jthe fall before Homecoming to|ris is a member of Sigma Chi
cept for groups at the Univer-!take definite action on the pro-|Fratenity.

sity of Virginia Law School and posals. Though no action was} Livingston, Huffaker, Ruther.
at the University of Oklahoma, |taken at this time, opinion was;ford, and Cutting all have previ-
the Davidson SDA is the only|favorable on both of.the pro-jously served on the Student
one in the South. posals discussed. Council.

(Continued From Page One) +
Laws. The forthcoming Y-:
HANDBOOK, which is being de-,
signed principally to acquaint |
and famiiiarize’ incoming fresh- |
men with the college in gen-'
eral, will have more of. an ac-,
eent of informality than past
editions.

on every pack... your

assurance that you are getting
UM's exclusive filtering action

: sy ’
Best tastin’ smoke you'll ever find!
Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L*«M. Get the flavor, the
full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. The patented
Miracle Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter
should be for cleaner, better smoking. ©1068 Licsurt & MvEns Topacco Co,

s
