PAGE FOUR

Armfield Represents Christmas Spirit
P nea nt time we at x ganta § Sled Reaches

Austria On December 6

By HERMANN LAIMER

Davidson At Conclave

Ed Armfield recently represented Davidson at the
Fourth Student Conference on National Affairs. SCONA, i
a privately sponsored conclave, was held December 10-13
at Texas A and M. College Station, Texas.

Davidson College. McGill the Conference were 130 stu-
University (Montreal, Canada), dents, representing sixty col

University of Toronto, and the
three service Academics were
the ohly schools outside a 1000
mile radius to be invited. Arm-

leges and universities.
“Sources of Tension—Na-

tional and International” set

forth the Conference theme.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

citement and expectation.

Some of the younger chil-
dren climbed upon his ample
lap and hugged him, while
the older ones watched with
a smugness that comes from
knowing. Playful tugs at his
beard did not affect him as
much as the quizzical leoks
in answer to his typical
question, “Have you been
doing your push-ups letely?”

LOOK OVER THE SEA

Davidsonian

Majestic, dusky mountains loaded with snow seem to;

Feature Writer

squeeze the ‘smali villages in the valleys. At about four

o'clock in the afternoon the fog rolls down the slopes
and half an hour later it is dark. The roads are deserted

and only the lighted windows show that there is life in-

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1958

Although some of the broth-
ers were worried that the gifts
‘selected wouldn't be appropri-
discussion groups considered ate, the appreciative expres-
topics of interest. sions on the rosyfaced tdts

“The prospect of intelligent; soon dispetied any fears.
discussions with students who: As the last Christmas carol
do have an. interest in interna- drifted over Fraternity Court,
tional affairs was enough to the last ice cream tree licked
‘make me want-to participate, away. the last present opened.
‘and these expectations were the last Christmas free orna-
more than fulfilled,” comment-; mént ‘thrown, and the last child
ed. Armfield. ;put on the bus, we all knew|

Davidson College Placement] @*nificld also announced a ‘hat we had shared some of the
Program. Placement Dircetor! Series of articles to appear in traly good things of the Christ
C: Shaw Smith and members of the DAVIDSONIAN afte r; mas season.

the Business and Economics. Christmas. Inspired by SCONA. re
Department conducted the dis- the scries will be poited at Stealing Declines
| ®
As Council Acts

side the houses.

Nature seems to sleep under
the snow cover, but in reality
man has lost control over na-
ture.

The farmers, though very
religious people believe in
many superstitions during
this season. They express
their fears and hopes in vari-
ous customs.

These customs are a synthe-
sis of pre-Christian cult and
Christian thoughts. In pre-

To develop this premise
speakers, panels, and student

field stated: “Being invited is
an indication of the esteem in
which Davidson is held in ed-
ucational circles.’ Attending

Seniors Sign For |
Interview Season

The first Placement Briefing
held in the College Union on’
December 10 initiated: the 1959

cially at the time of winter
solstice many,.cult processions
. . which are still alive in numer-
cussion which dealt. with the student interest in intetnation.

use of the Placement Bureau. . al affairs. son begins with the first Sun-

The interview season will be- Major General Westover, day of Advent. Every family
cn wi the ist of represent, Chef of Plane Sraesie AC student Council President ate ea
. re ’ “Na- | John Kuykendall announced, . Ss

conference session on
tional Security.” His discus-
sion included the nuclear
stalemate, forcign bases, re-
gional alliances, military re-

to meet prospective employees
and with another Placement
‘Briefing soon. thereafter to dis-
cuss taking interviews. Most of
the interviews will be held in,

this week that the number of} burns the first candle. The fol-
. * nee : ‘lowing Sunday always one more
stolen and missing articles re [candle is lighted and this shows

ported to the Council has de- that Christmas comes closer
ined s i ' we gs
‘clined sharply in the past Wor oad that it is time to prepare

weeks. Kuykendall hopes that

February and March. Students organization, and educational this will mark’ the beginning of for it.

interested in interviews must policies. arn ‘| Jn the old part of Salsburg
ae Ty or the end of an increased amount] . \ ,

complete ‘their applications’ “Contrasting Political Ideold- city the “Turmbluser” opens

‘ : lo ‘ 'O-lof thefts which began carly in
with the Placement Office be- gies’ was aimed at exploring; the second semester last year.

fore the interview; those inter- colonialism. the rising tide of] carelessness and lack of
ested in Texaco interviews nationalism. and Soviet “Indi-| eommren precaution cause the
should apply immediately. iloss of many items.” Kuyken-

PLACEMENT CONTACT Congressman W. J..B Dorn} dail commented, “The gym.

The Director of Placement ‘Greenwood. S. C.)’ and Mr.jwhere many people not con-
maintains contact with, more Chattes Adair of the State De-Inectcd with the college come
than two hundred and fifty ‘partment formest a panel on’ and go cach day, and the ddérmi-
firms -and will aid students in’ Economic Policies” —. inter-|tories on the weekends when;
getting in touch with any com. | Mattonal trade. foreign ald. fow students remain here are:
pany not regularly listed. Each fariff policies. and domestic, trouble spots.” He advised stu-

the Advent. The “Turmbluser”
are on the top of the bell tow-
ers of Baroque churches and
sound with their horns old Ad-
vent tunes over the town.
December sixth is Santa
Claus day. Santa Claus,
dressed as a reverend bishop,
comes to the children and
reads from a thick book how
they behaved during the year
and rewards them with

f rect Aggression.”

;_. recession and recovery. d lock their lock i
year about forty companies a, ents to lock their lockers In i
send interviewers to discuss’ Congressman Dorn is on |the gym and their rooms over| Sweets If they were obedient
employment with those stu. "e¢erd as having voted | tho weekend. Fd Genctiig” Sante Clave |
dents. usually about seventy,’ *92!st every foreign aid bill bad. Generally Santa Claus
. y at 8 y, “Of course. we would all

to come before the Houpo is accompanied by Krampus,

who apply for placement.
SPECIAL SERVICES

Seniors planning graduate
study or military service can.
use the Placement Bureau to a!
speciat advantage ‘by establish-'
ing preliminary contact with
firms which can be reactivated
when the graduate is available
for employment. The office
aids mid-term graduates by ,es-
tablishing contacts for them by
mail.

Among the companiss visit:
ing Davidson for interviews
this year are the. following: '
Cities Service Oil Company, Na-
tional Advisory Committee for

during his tenure of office. {like to think that all the steal-
During the panel he inquired, ting is: an outside job, and we
“Why should UNCLE SAP | must remember that there are
(sic) import cotton when we Many people who came 9nj he puts the worst children.
have more in the South than C2™Mpus not bound by the honor! Santa Claus is’ a legendary
we can use?” system.” Kuykendall continued,! figure: Very long ago-a ‘father
‘Mr. Arthur Hadley of. the{ Still. much evidence indicates} lived with his three beautiful
New: York. Herald Tribune con-;that at least some stealing! daughters. But the datighter-
ducted a program on “Develop fcomes from within the student}couldn’t marry becanie ther
ing the News.” body. This doesn’t mean that} were poor. On the Santa Claus
The Commerce Secretary of; the honor: system isn't work-: day however, an unknown bi-
India’s Embassy. Mr. Rama! ing,” he emphasized. “The pur-‘shop appeared at. the window
chandran. spoke on trade and; Pose of the honor system ig to}and poured a sack full of ap
foreign aid. Strenathening the! keep honest’ people honest: itl ples in. Three of them were of
international flaver of the Con. can’t keep a thief from steal-)pure gold and fm this way he
ference. “Cultural. Religious, | '"8-"
and Racial Backgrounds” were
handled. by a Mexican. Kuykendall

with one horsefoot, a pack,
and a huge basket into which

: . Since: this time S$ nta Clav
explained that comes every year cit

Aeronautics; Atomic Energy} ran. the Student Council has a spe-|, knw al ‘

Commission, Southern _ Bell, a omospert Armfield con: cial committee on thefts. This iewond. today. Keampus is a
Proctor and Gamble. Lehigh! ye 0s 1 have over taken mangl committee investigates’ all re-| bol of all the evil and this
Portland Cement. Deering-Mil-! {¢ Dest T have ever taken part’ ports of missing articles. Us-! ;;, ;

figure is probably taken from
th itt t ers of the Brechten.

e committee attempts | _ The Brechten are young men
leads and patterns of| who run through the moun-
the theft which they can. use to tain villages in a procession

reduce the problem. to drive away the demons.

vin. Atteridance and participa~. ing expert advise from various

i wi . t :
tion were excellent. duc to stu | sources,

liken. Colgate, Palmolive, Bur-
lington Industries, Chase Man- F
hattan.Bank, Cone Mills, Irving dent interest. The whole con’ i to . find
Trust Company,. Potomac Riv- ferenc € Was well on ganized and
er Naval Conmmand. G. C. Mur.| really stimulating.

Local color was spurred by a
phy Company, R. J. Reynolds, P y
and Wachovi, Bank. y Texas-style barbecue given by; In order to solve the prob-

_the College, Also, the hosts lem Kuykendall says all stu-|
M h planned a ROTC review of their|dents must “exercise normal
onag an 4.000 member cadet corps, but precaution, and report all miss-
(Continued From Page 1) rain intervened. ling articles promptly.”
political, non-sectarian, and
non-partisan,” whose activities

are “for the understanding of
American ideals."

The letter from American
Viewpoint offered the speaking
services of. Dr. Frank Monag-
han, a traveling lecturer in the
American Viewpoint College
Visitor Program for collegas
and universities.

The Jetter was forwarded to
the office of the Director of
the College Union, and after
due consideration it was decid-:
ed. that the Union Round Table
Committee, headed by Lamar
Riggs. would sponsor (with par-
tial financial help by the|
YMCA) a= chapel appearance |
and an evening lecture by Dr. '
Monaghan on Thursday, Decem-
ber 4.

Pr. Monaghan arrived at make a date, or talk to your fotks, from
Davidson Wednesday eve- | practically anywhere ... even from your
ning, and teft for his next % own car.
speaking engagement late i.

Friday afternoon. After his ,
chapel spcech Thursday

morning, his evening lecture
was cancelled.

Last week members of the
college administration conduct-
ed a thorough inquiry into the
circumstances surrounding Dr,
Monaghan’s appearance at Da-
vidson and the nature of Amer-
ican Viewpoint, Inc. The state-
ment above is the final result
of this investigation.

In conclusion, the administra-
tion’ official who conducted the
inquiry had this to say:

“We accept the apology of
American Viewpoint as ex-
pressed by its president. We
regret the incident sincerely
and we appreciate the attitude
of understanding taken by the
members of the student body Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Compony by
and the faculty relative to the THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

entire situation. We consider | «cote ts 0 seghtered srade-mork, ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
the matter closed.”

RD Cae

Ly

+? 3 A MEDISTERED TRADE WaRK, COPrMaNt © eto THe COEA-COLA COmPanr.

Rara Avis

It’s a rare bird indeed who doesn’t
care for the good taste of Coke!

In fact, you might even call him an
odd ball. After all, 68 million times
a day somehody, somewhere, enjoys
Coca-Cola. All these peoplo

just can't be wrong!

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

”

Christian times existed, espe-|

ous forms. The. Christmas sea. | the

| dow.

a person dressed as the devil :

tattend the midnight servico. Tt) papers. for the Union is alloted

-down the. slopes without sec-'and magazines.

‘made the girts rich and hanoy.”

“Couldn't be done.” That's what they
told Mr. Bell back in 1876. But where
would three million college students
be without the telephone ... especialy
on a Saturday night? Today you can

figure derived from the pre-
Christian gods who received
various Christian influences.
He symbolizes the good, the
bad, the beautiful, and the ugly
and numerous customs are con-
nected with him. He appears
onty in a few special nights
when it is said that demons
roar through the winds in their
“wild hunt.”

2 ee ete eee

Snowballs fly as a warm winter day melted the ‘first snows of the ‘season. The three-
inch precipitation delighted the student body, especially those who had never before seen

it. (Photo by Rhyne)
The farmers usually stay at
home with their families. The

nee vir aortemne'e’ Upion § Finances Total

heats herbs in the pan on the|
$33,000 For The Year

stove and leads the family with
By GEORGE RHYNE

domestics through all
rooms and stables saying pray-)
ers against the demons. |
The city, too, prepares for Davidson Feature Writer
Christmas, though in quite a The Bavid Owens College Union will spend $33.000
different way, A decorated | this year! Most of this goes for maintenance, such as
Christmas market opens the) heating, water, electricity. wages and salaries, and insur-

doors full with toys and other . .
Christmas gifts. The children 29Ce- Thesé items are more or less fixed from year to
year.

write letters to the Christ child

end tell their wishes. mal The Union provides far more
Christchild comes at night and Service to students than. most
takes the letter from the win-' realize. To the average man
about campus, the Union is
-merely a place to buy razor
‘blades. or a snack, or “where
the freshmen eat.”

As a matter of fact, the di-
verse functions of the Union
range from providing news-
papers and magazines to pre-
senting guest speakers, and
from providing games to giv-

Biood Drive Fails
To Reach Fall Goal

The blood drive held at Da-
vidson College on Monday.
December 15, failed in its ef
forts to collect 300 pints of
blood. Final results showed
that only 250 pints of blood had
been collected.

The fraternity that had the
most of its members to con-
tribute blood was Sigma Nu,
with 70.5% donating. They
were followed by Phi Delta
Theta with 47.5%; Sigma Chi
with 45.5%: Sigma Phi Epsi-

Handting Seasonal decora-
tions is the House Committee
which is given $125. The Pub-
lications and Publicity Commit-|jon with 43.4°: Pi Kappa **
tee receives $250. Its job is pha with 43.5° ; Sigma Alpha
to make signs, posters. and the H Epsilon with 42.6%; Beta Theta
projected activities calendar. | pi with 41.4%; Alpha Tau Ome-

During Orientation Weck the ga with 30.0°%;Phi Gamma Del-
Social Committee. furnishes re-'ta with 26.9%; Kappa Sigma
freshments for Freshmen and} with 25.3%; Pi Kappa Phi with
also plans exchange dates, 43.4%, and Kappa Alpha with
jointly with the YMCA, and :.41.9%.

plans for social gatherings in} 4. biood collected at David-

On Christmas Eve, December
twenty-fourth. they will find
their gifts under the “Tannen-
baum” which is wonderfully lit
with candles. Many families
have also a crib with the first!
scene o€ Christ in their Christ-
mas room and some farmers!
have it instead of the “Tannen-|

baum.” ing travel information. general. Its budget is $275. | ot goes to the Mecklenburg
In the churches are also cribs | The remainder of this $33. Contrary to popular poe | Chapter of the American Red
with the complete nativity 000 amounts to $1,880. This is both the students and the (7 The individual ‘fraterni-

cafeteria and Snack Bar are
self-supporting and the fi-
nances of these are in no :
way connected with those of
the Union.

According to Mr. Smith, the
Union is a “melting pot” where
students can meet and con-
verse in a friendly, congenial
atmosphere. “The program is

scene of Clirist. In some of. devoted to the. Union program.
them the ‘people even perform which is broken down as fol-
a..pastor | play. In the moun:. lows:

tains the farmers have to walk] The Bookshelf Committee
sometimes-an hour or more to; which buys books and news-

ties get credit for the number
of members donating in a. na-
tionial poll. Here at Davidson,
each person contributing re-
ceives a free ROTC drill cut
and a free cut in physical
training.

looks ghostly but beautiful toi$225. This committee also pro-
sec a row of lights coming: vides literary discussion groups

ing the persons who are curry-' The Film Committee gets

ing them. $50 which is to serve as a cush- as varied as possibie. but due 4

‘ion tobe in the event that the to a lack. of funds, wo cannot Junior Year
c, "t. movies are not self-supporting. hope for quite as complete a e
i: ‘ ontz This dole is always needed. program as we would like.” in

New York

An unusual one-year
college program

a sued From Page 3)
f ‘+f > in no way attempt-
cofere with the teach-
is vs cdteom oof the professor
involved.

Both men felt that a clear
explanation by the DAVIDSON-
IAN would serve to clear up un-
founded rumors, and perhaps
aid in the solution of problems

Hi-Fi COMPONENTS

At Wholesale Net Prices

Weito for
brochure to:

4

which, according to Goody. H Dean F.H. McCloskey SH
koontz, arc presently blocking § Washington Square oA
certain academic innovations © Mew York University oat
which he desires to make in Across From Ivey’s Sth St. Entrance B Newyorn3,y. | 322) Pig
his courses. 126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C. 5 "S

Canmawncanennanneensse

THEY SAID IT coutpn'r BE DONE <0 BO HERE IT KS/

PUFF BY PUFF
TODAYS I&M

lhess

Such an improved filter and more taste! Yes, today’s EM combines these two
essentials of modern smoking enjoyment — less tars and more taste in one great
cigarette. EM’s patented filtering process enables today’s IfM to give you, puff by
puff, less tars:in the smoke than ever before. And IM gives you more taste, better taste
than any other cigarette. d f J

f m4 < c 3

a

ra

+ 4
an. Hrnees NN sttedds

Light into that Live Modern flavor!
