Sports
All That

By JIM HAMILTON

It’s been a good year in sports for Davidson College.

If the won-lost record is considered (Davidson won
62 and lost 62 regularly scheduled matches this year
for a percentage of exactly 500) it would seem as if
this year has only been a fair one. But when one con-
siders various individual performances, the picture
brightens.

In football, the Dolemen, despite flu and mud, man-
aged a 5-3 season. High spot of the season was the
trouncing of Wofford, at that time the top fooball power
among the nation’s smaller schools. Individual stars, to
mention a few, were Captain Bill Price, All-Conference

center and the passing duo of Benson to Wall. Co- cap-
tain Dave Fagg, Tommy Peters Award winner, shone at
tackle.

Soccer, a relatively young sport at Davidson,

gave its new fans plenty of thrills during the season,
and its 4-5 record doesn’t indicate the brand of ball
played. Claude Finney and Pete Andrews gained all-
conference honors to lead the men of the hard toe.

The season record for basketball wasn’t too impres-

sive (9-15), but such stars as Semi Mintz, the nation’s lead-
ing foul shooter, and freshman dead eye Bill Shinn gave

Cat fans hopes of greater things to come.

On the mat, Coach Parker’s boys completed the
best wrestling season since 1935, winning five and losing
three. And of course there was Westervelt, who grappled

his second undefeated season and captured the confer-!

ence title in his weight for the second straight year.
The swimming record also was not spectacular

(five won, five lost), but the young squad showed promise
of greater things to come. Sophomore Tom Smith missed

a conference championship in the backstroke by about
three fifths of a second. Freshman Tom Hudgins con-
tinually placed first in the distances, and another soph,
John Scott, was a hard man to beat in the breaststroke.

The tennis team, perpetually strong at Davidson,
posted a 13-5 record, the best in several years. Besides
that they took second place in the conference in the
tourney at Williamsburg. Individual conference champ-
ions were Doug Orr in the number five slot and Dick

manpower. this year, the trackmen managed to post a
4-3 season record. In the conference meet the red and

With the best golf team in years, Davidson tied
George Washington for the conference title in Dan-
ville last week. This represents a jump from the
cellar to the top of the league in only three years.
Bucky Dennis was conference low man with a 145.

Baseball was another story in contrasts. The Cats,
climbed from a 6-14 record last year to 11-6 this year.
Davidson, which Jed the conference until the last two
games, finished fourth in the league.

126 W. TRADE STas**

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Orr, Hodel, Pearsall Pace

Davidson Is Second
To Geo. Washington

By FINLEY LEE
Davidson's tennis team, led by Doug Orr, Dick Ho-
del, and Dave Pearsall, gained the runner-up position
for the second consecutive year in the conference tour-
ney last week at Williamsburg. George Washington won
the championship, winning six out of the nine divisions.

a /

*
}

Jim Tarr of George Washing-
ton was the big winner of the
week, narrowly defeating Toby
Perry of William and Mary for
the number one singles title.

‘Dave Pearsall, Davidson’s num-

ber one man, played his finest

‘tennis of the year before bow-

ing to Tarr‘in the semi-finals.
POINDEXTER AND S8ROOME

Davidson also gathered points
in the number two and four
divisions, where John Poin-
dexter and Harry Broome, who
both won opening round
matches, were defeated in the
semi-finals.

In the number three singles,
Tom McCutchen went to the
finals against Sol Libowitz of
George Washington, Who de-
feated him after McCutchen had
gained an early lead.

feating Jim Whitehead of
George Washington 10-8, 6-1 in
a fine match in the finals.

Scrappy Dick Hodel took the
sixth division defeating tower-
ing Chuck Bowie 7-5, 6-3.

DOUBLES °

In the doubles George Wash-
ington was again the strongman,
winning the number one and
two divisions. But the Cats
scored in the third division as
Orr and Pearsall topped White-
head and Shorr in three sets.

The pressure was on Pear-
sall, down 4-5 in the third, with
his serve coming up. Dave held
serve and for all purposes the
match was over, after breaking
their opponents serve. Orr
served the final game at love.

In the official team totals

But the five and six singles|George Washington was first

were all Davidson.

with 36 points, Davidson second

Doug Orr, a freshman, won|with 21, and Washington and
the number five division, de! Lee third with 19.

Tech Drops Cats

Hodel at six. Orr and Dave Pearsall won the number|
three doubles. F rth Pl
Even though Coach Whittle was a little short on O ou ace

0 : ‘Davidson's dreams of Southern Conference glory
black was carried well by McBryde, Gramley, and Huie.|faded Tuesday afternoon as the unheralded Virginia.
Tech Gobblers exploded for 31 runs in two games to

defeat the Wildcats in two crucial contests.

The Wildcats were riding high

in a first place tie with Rich-| with six walks.

mond before Tuesday's game
with a 7-2 conference record.

Richmond's record was_ also ,
7-2.
The double loss not only

knocked the Cats out of first
place, it put them completely
out of title contention down to
fourth place.

Davidson now trails
George Washington, which
has a 5-2 record and Cita-
del, who owns a 6-3 slate.
Virginia Tech’s record is
five won and six lost.

The Wildcats hopes rose
briefly in the first game of the
double. header when they

scored five runs in the first
inning to take a 5-2 lead.

Victim of the onslaught was

Dave Kuhn. Tech starter, who
contributed to the Cat effort

The lead, however, was
short-lived, as the Gobblers
tallied two more in the bot-

ed two more in the bottom
of the fourth to take the
lead, 6-5.

| tom of the second and add-

ted for six runs in the sixth.

six and lost. five apiece. The wet

Ton Letthander Davigh¢ Lad A.T.O.s are in sixth place with Phi Gamma Delta 11 60
wig left the Cats blinking as|? "c¢ord of four wins and five Kappa Alpha 8 2
he hurled a nice three hitter. |!osses and the Kappa Sigs are in|Sigma Chi 8 3
seventh place with a 4-6 ‘rec-}Phi Delta Theta 8 4

Ludwig sent nine Wild- | ord. Beta Theta Pi. @ §
cats to the bench on strike- Eighth place is held by the}Pi Kappa Alpha 6 5
ovts while walking only ‘Independents with a 3-6 rec-|Alpha Tau Omega 4 5
one. His teammates backed |ord while three wins and seven’ Kappa Sigma 4 6
him up with twelve hits, [losses gives the S.P.E.s ninth‘ Independents o 6
and Davidson gave him con- | place. The Sigma Nus have no Sigma Phi Epsilon 3 7
siderable help with five er- |wins and nine losses. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 2 #§
rors. The Sigma Chis’ Finley Lee Pi Kappa. Phi 2 $7
Sigma Nu 0 869

A new idea in smoking...

e menthol fresh
_g rich tobacco taste
e most modern filter

Salem refreshes your taste

aa!

~~

BUCKY DENNIS, Southern Conference medalist
shown above sending his drive far down the fare way. Den-
nis carded a 145 to lead Davidson to a first place tie with
George Washington in the conference tournament. (Photo by
Rose)

Phi Gams Top Softball,

Lee Wins In Tennis

By MAL MURCHISON

The standings now give the|next year.
K.A.s a shaky hold on second| In the doubles
the Sigma Chis trailing close|Barger will play

record.

i FOURTH PLACE
In fourth place, the Phi Delts

a tie for fifth place having won SOFTBALL STANDINGS

Nt

‘jond = off

The Phi Gams are way out in took the interfraternity singles!
front in the current interfra-|tennis championship by defeat-
ternity softball tournament. The/ing K. A. Hight Redmond 6-2,
Fijis added number eleven to|5-7, 8-6. Finley, a transfer from
their perfect record by easing|George Washington, will be eli-!
over the Betas 19-6 on Tuesday:igible for varsity competition

; tournament
place with an 8-2 record, with; the Phi Delt team of Davis and
the A.T.O !
behind in third with an 838/team of Maxwell and Taylor
and the Sigma Chis’ Lee Reiger
combination will play the K.A.
team of Gayle and Redmond.
I The winner of these matches

They increased the lead to|have won eight and lost four:) will play for the championship.
7.5 in the fifth and then erup. the Betas and the Pikas are in

GET THE JUMP
ON VACATION FUN
...GO GREYHOUND’

@ Lowest fares of all public
transportation!

© Frequent departures! Quick-

PAGE THREE

Bavidsonta

===SPORTS

————$——
————

Cats In Conference Tourney mcBryde Stars

In Track Meet

By PETE WYRICK

The 34th annual Southern Conference track meet,
held May 9 and 10 at Richardson Field on Davidson’s
recently renovated track, saw William and Mary squeak
by The Citadel for the conference championship.

Davidson claimed one individ-
ual championship as Augus Mc-
Bryde took first place in the| brought the Indians from be-
mile run. McBryde paced him-}hind to win their second
self well, running in the fifth|straight championship. Storm’s
position for the first three laps,| leap of 6 feet, 3% inches erased
then kicked the last half of the|the old mark of 6 feet, 3 inches
final lap to win in 4:26.3. His|held by Jack Moody of U.N.C.,
time, run on a_ track which|since 1947 when Carolina was
most participants considered “a:'a member of the old Southern
little slow,’ was only one sec-| Conference.
last _ year’s winning} The only other record ‘to be
broken was in the pole vault,
where Dave Tork of West Vir-

- "“|ginia broke his own record of
cat track team were Chris

Bremer in the high hurdles, 13 feet, 10% inches, set in
Date Gramley and Dave Warden 1956. Tork’s vault was 14 feet
in the shot and discus, John|“% inch.

Huie in the high jump, and All The meet produced no dou-
McKay in the 440. Gramley| be winners, but Tork and team-
finished second> in the discus) 1 a1, Ray Peterson took: individ-

and fourth in the shot, Huie . .
tied for third in the high jump,|"4! scoring honors with ten

and Warden was fifth in the|points apiece.
discus. The mile relay team| William and Mary emassed

Storm of Wiliam and Mary

mark.
FINALIST
Other finalists for the Wild-

gained fifth place. 47% points in winning, fol-
The Citadel, sparked by|lowed closely by tho Citadel
freshmen and sophomores,

which finished with 44. Other
scores were: Furman 31, West
Virginia 29, V.P.I. 28%, V.M.L
18, Davidson 16, Richmond 9,
and Washington and Lee 2.

took an early ‘lead and held
it until the high jump, the next
to last event in the meet, was
over.

Then a record jump by Bob

ANGUS McBRYDE,. star Davidson miler, crosses the
finish tine in the conference meet Saturday to bring Da-
vidson its only first place of the day. McBryde also was fifth
in the two mile run. (Photo by Wyrick)

Athletic Banquet
Wednesday Night

On Wednesday, May 21, the
Davidson Athletic Banquet will
be held in the Old Dining Hall
of Chambers Building.

This banquet not only honors
those boys who won letters and
awards, but also all boys who
participated on any intercol-
legiate team.

Coach Tom Scott will act as
toastmaster of the ceremony,
and each coach will make the
presentations to the members of
his team.

Football Coach Dole will be
first to announce his outstand-
ing players. The Academic and
Blocking trophies will also be
given. Others to be honored
will be members of the cross
country, swimming. basketball,

tennis, golf, baseball, wrestling,
! Rifle, soccer and track teams.
Angus McBryde will be
honored as the top South-
ern Conference miler, while

Doug Orr and Dick Hodel

will receive awards for their

contributions to the tennis

{sues moj ‘moj Say) oxedwoy

est time to many cities!

@ Air-conditioned comfort;
picture-window sightseeing;
sfully equipped restroom;

Auguste, Ga. — $7.35 | team. Also winning recog
Sarksomiitle, Fle. 308 nition for outstanding
Greensboro, N. C. 2.60 achievements on the team
Washington, D. C. 7.90 will be the doubles com-

All Prices Plus Tax

bination of Dave Pearsall

Refreshing! Yes,

sparkled Spring morning is to you! Now get the rich tobacco taste you love,
a new surprise softness and easy comfort. Through Salem’s pure-white modern
filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You take a puff .

Smoke refreshed... Smoke Salem

the smoke of a Salem is as refreshing to your taste as a dew-

” on all Scenicruiser Service”
; ae schedules!
Created by KS Weynolls Tobacco ¢

4 a

with

. . it’s Springtime! SO
®

.

I'S SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THAGUS...
AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!

WHITE DRUG CO.
Cc. S. Goodrum, Agt.
Davidson, N. Ss:

7.

end Orr.

The medalists on the golf
team will be given their awards.

The trophy for the outstand-
ing Freshman athlete will be an-
nounced at the banquet. It was
won last year by George Hart,
who won letters in both football
and baseball as a freshman.

There will be no supper

Brainstorm! No matter how much
baggage you're taking home—
Greyhound can take, if fll

es | SPeaker
