THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FOUR

cy

:

r¥ |LOOK OVER THE SEA

Panamanian Misses
Girls, Tropical Climate

By TONY DIAZ
Davidsonian Feature Writer

|

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14. 1958

~ |CriticReviews Rankin’s
lArtist Series Concert

By PERRIN WRIGHT
Davidsonian Music Critic

Student Council Holds
Contemplative Meeting

| The Student Council, meeting last week in what one The Davidson College Artist Series presented Miss
j|member called a “contemplative meeting” heard a re-}Nell Rankin, mezzo-soprano, in a concert last Friday
port on increased theft on campus and made plans to|night in Chambers Auditorium. Miss Phyllis Grandy pro-
review election methods and the Court of Control before} yided the piano accompaniment.

1 wish 1 could be able to write well, to be able to

the year’s end.

Miss Rankin had sung tn

place accurately my feelings in paper and transform the
sheet in front of me into.a mirror of my feelings. But I
do not think it will take a lot of effort to write something

David Robinson, chairman of, come.” On the council agenda

Sne sang “The Erl King” of
Schubert more dramatically, or

for the year is a complete re- Boris Goudonov at the Metro-

the council committee on theft
view of the court of control's

investigation, reported an in-

politan Thursday night, and | more operatically, then usual:
had left for Davidson at 4:30 jthe casual listener might have

_ It was not in a ship, | was
not standing, | could not see
the exuberance of the tropical
scenery that Panama offers to
the visitor, | did not see it
fading slowly in front of my
sad eyes. In fact till today !
have not been able to find
anything poetic or romantic
about my departure from
Panama.

oe

PRESIDENT’S SECRETARY

-noon, my girl friend could not
(Photo by Rhyne) oo MY &

make it to the airport. I found
myself in the airplane, sitting
down, it was caining, my seat
happened to be right above a
wing so [ missed the whole
view, and it sure did not fatie
slowly for we ran into 4 fog
storm after we took off.

Personality Enhances
The President’s Qitice

Four -hours later the glitter-
ing lights of Miami gave me

It was a Wednesday after-

about your own country and in my case about my trip
and my impressions at the campus of Davidson College.

climate.
If there is something that im-
presses a lot, it is the friend.
{Hiness of the people, in this par-
ticular point I am talking for
all the foreign students, we
jhave been warmly received and
treated in such a way that we
‘can not offer any complaint.
| Starting from the faculty, stu-
dents individually and as a
group in fraternitiés everybody
-has been just “the most.”
| had the privilege of be-
ing pledged by a fraternity
and until now 1 do not regret
it; 1 have found there the
brotherhood, understanding
and help | would with diffi-
culty have been able to find
somewhere else. .
In a word this has been andi

|
|

crease in value of stolen ar-
ticles. According to Robinson,
thefts are reported too late for
effective council action and the
work of the group is hampered

because of slow reports from|

purpose and practice.
COURT OUTMODED

One council member said,
“Some members of the council
feel that the Court as it stands
is outmoded. As times change,
l the value of the Court has
changed, too. Through changing

students who find articles miss-| its structure and procedure, it

ing from rooms. Council mem-
bers expressed disapproval. of a
plan for a campus search for
stolen goods as “contrary to the
spirit of the Honor System.”

STUDENT COMMITTEE

President Kuykendall — will
head a student committee on
elections which will begin. de-
liberation and investigation con-
cerning campus elections next
semester. The committee. com-
posed of council members and
students-at-large will study the
present. elections system and
perhaps propose changes before
spring elections.

could be altered for the better
without losing effectiveness.” A
considerable number of coun-
cilmen expressed an opposing
view, seeing the present Court
system adequate. :

Kuykendall announced that
the outcome of a vote on the
proposed firearms amendment
and honor court amendment
will be> announced as soon as
possible. A council committee
will be appointed to effect the
revisions if the amendments are
passed.

Freshman Council officers
were - invited’ to observe all
council meetings as non-voting

By ANDY BLAKE

the first impression of good old still is a very interesting and participants and Kuykendall re-

Friday morning with only a detected that Miss Grandy
celebration party and a few jturned in her most devastating
hours’ sleep intervening. job of the evening on this one.
The first half was closed with
“O Priests of Baal” from Meyer-
beer’s “The Prophet.”

In spite of this, her vocal
quality and freshness remained
undisturbed for the entire con-
cert, with the exception of one
sly cough toward the end, which
was not at all consumptive. It
became obvious, however, that
the festivities were telling on. banera” from “Carmen” by
Miss Grandy; her performance | Bizet; this was followed by “Les
constantly betrayed a spiritual,!Tringles des Sistres” and “Lit

if not a physical. hangover. |Seguedille” from. the some
opera. These comprised prob-

Miss Rankin began with @ | ably the most successful group
short aria and a short song {from the standpoint of audience
from the Bareque period, | appcal, as usual. Again, Miss
then launched into e group I Grandy came in a valiant second
of Brahms and Schubert Lie- jon “Les Tringles”.
der.

Col. Adams

(Continued From Page 1)

After intermission Miss Ran.
kin returned to sing the mezzo-
soprano’s war-horse, perennial
audience-squirmer, the “Ha-

The program was conclud-
ed with a group of five Amer-
ican songs, the most tasteful
of which turned out to be an
oid North Carolina folk song,
“He's Gone Away”.

Q. Colonel Adams, would

Davidsonian Feature Writer | U.S.A. of course Miami City, profitable experience. I am sure
Among a generation of Davidson students there has | is not the prototype of an Amer Davidson will not improve with!
been a rumor. partially jestful, partially serious, that'iean town and I was warned. my presence in its campus, but

The council praised the 1958
Court. of Control and expressed
a view that the year’s orienta-

emphasized his desire that stu-
dents attend council meetings.

you hazard a guess as to how
{ the branch assignments are

‘much of the charm of the President of Davidson could ‘about it. nevertheless I coulti! sure will learn and gain a lot
} not ‘say I was bad impressed at’ by being here among “amigos.”

be attributed to a woman, the President’s secretary.
jalt! Another four hours and

!

Perhaps there is a. group of stenographic work, and meet-. then Charlotte, finally Davidson
Davidson undergraduates -who ing visitors. In a very short and ever since every morning f
know fittle more of the ad-,time it became evident why have to pinch myself to see if
ministration’s office staff than Mrs. French is so highly re-;I am not dreaming.
they see in. the union after cha-i garded: her personality _is a Do I miss Panama? Sure J
pel. [ am in this group. yet I precious asset to Davidson’s'qg Am i homesick? Maybe 1
have listened to no small -num- public relations, {should be but I always thought
ber of compliments to Mrs. J.. As we talked I learned how of homesickness as something
D. French. who was Dr. Cun-!much Mr. Martin's secretary en- ¢hat brought along sadness. and
ningham’s secretary and who joyed receiving, welcoming, andit am not sad. I guess it is that
has continued in her position, working with people. She. here in Davidson you do not
now working for President Mar- praised Davidson students a5 faye time for being homesick.
un “past masters of hospitality.” 1 should be homesick for

“WOMAN BEHIND MAN” .and coming from such an apt 94 tittle country roughly the
: A record of four years as sec: hostess. I felt. this was.a real size of South Carolina; a

tion program and actions of the
Court has a “fortunate out-

Big Turnout Expected
For Frosh Parents’ Day

Tomorrow morning 400 pa- seats will be issued to them.
rents of this year’s freshman Other members of the family
class will converge on the Da-! may purchase reserved seat
vidson campus for the annual,tickets for $2.50. High. school
Freshman Parents Day. As of students may sit in a different

class, were initiated in Phi Hall

,Jast Tuesday 370 had confirmed!
itheir coming. These early fig!

;ures indicate that this year's | game there will be a coffee

‘number will exceed that of any,
past year.

section at a lower cost.

Immediately following the
hour in the dining hall of the
Chambers Building. This will

j going to turn out?

A. As you know, last year, we
had eighty-five per cent of our

Pre-Med Fraternity,
Inducts Thirty-one men receive their first choice.
Ym afraid it won’t be as high

Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-jthis year, because of the large
med honorary fraternity recent-; number requesting Military In-
1 telligence and Army Security.
'y added to +e .

. . . Those are very limited fields. as
thirty-one Davidson juniors and you know. We can hope for the
seniors. The new members. who! pect of course. but we can't
must be in the top third of their really expect a large percent:

age.

its membership!

‘

last Wednesday, November 5.

The new members consist of
six seniors and twenty-five jun-
iors. They are:

Seniors: Douglas Balentine,

Miss Rankin offered several
encores which met with even
more’ determined applause. If
her third encore, “Vilia’, was
evidence of her strong desire
to call it quits, the next evi-
dence was irrefutable. She sang
“The Lord's Prayer’; no one
closed his eyes, and several still
tried to applaud.

Her voice was a definite
pleasure to hear, and an excel-
lent control and technique sup-
plemented her fine quality to
a truly professional degree.

Daily Pit-Cooked

rétary to the President. hinted compliment.
to me that the proverbial ‘“‘wo- STUDIED HERE
‘man: behind the man” might be
a “woman. behind the men”, andj Mrs: French. has studied here
I became anxious to learn some-!at Davidson. and that she did
thing of. Mré. French's service | personnel work in Charlotte
to Davidson’s recent chief ad-, prior to March, 1953. Then. be-
ministrators. cause Davidson was her home
A visit with Mrs. French] and because she was interested
caused me to be more than well/in the college. she began work-
pleased with Mr. Martin’s frontiing in the Student Union. In
office personality. The charm-} August of the following year
ing hostess to visiting digni-] Dr. Cunningham saw the poten-
taries and to anyone calling on/tial value. of having her per-
the President made me com-|sonality in the President's of-
fortable and was such an in-|fice. Since that time she has
teresting conversationalist that| been Secretary to the President
I found. myself straying from) of Davidsan College.
the topic of my quest.

HER DUTIES
We did, however. discuss
Mrs. French’s work in the Pres-
ident’s office. She immediately | fortable. Her charm has made
denied any responsibility in Da- her not only a capable secre-
vidson’s administration or any ‘ry, but one of the most pop-
advisory work for the Presi- ular members of the Davidson

dent. She explained that her job staff.
is maintaining an orderly sched- |

ule for the college's head ad- cee
ministrator, doing general pe se.

Rushing

(Continued From Page 1) | rf an
Frolics received early planning. : A.
A conflict of the Spring Frolics , § rad a
and the Male Chorus tour is | a’ |
being investigated. There is a j
possibility of re-scheduling the |
Frolies ‘a week later than now
planned.

The IFC voted to grant a re-.
fund of a half of the dance.
ticket to the football players in ~
training Friday night. thus be-
ing unable to attend the first:
dance. Each IFC member will
contact the members of his fra- 4.
ternity affected by this refund. ~

Y Cabinet

(Continued From Page 1)

portunities will be made
available.

Announcement was made of
the Thanksgiving conference at
Pfeiffer College. to which the! %
Y desires to send two delegates | 4,
from Davidson to study with 9
some one hundred representa- aw
tives from other colleges and (a
universities, the racial” prob-.
Jem. Hach individual at fhe:
conference is to represent his
own personal viewpoint, with
his only obligation to his school
‘being that. of reporting the
revelant topics and con¢lusions
of the conference.

Treasurer Bobby Livingston
reported that Vesper offerings
during the month of October
had increased each Sunday, al-
though the contributions con-
tinued to be made by a small
percentage of the attending
students.

A program on Near East re-
lations is planned for the near
future, according to Ed Stevens.
This program tentatively in-;
cludes several distinguished
foreign figures as well as local! “Cote”  @ regsered trede mort

personages.

a

goes along!

Bottled under authority of

Before leaving | learned that |

| both from the inhabitants of the

Several minutes spent with: our shores. I guess that is why| questions most frequently asked
Mrs. French conclusively prove|it has not been so much of. a by parents.
her friendliness and her apti-| change
tude for making guests com-|food. musie,

>

Out of this world!

Space travelers—be on the alert! Make
sure there’s a cargo of Coke tucked
away in the rocket! You may not be
able to buy your favorite sparkling
drink on the moon... but that's just
about the only place you can’t. So
when you're ready for the big lift, be
sure the cheerful lift of Coca-Cola

THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

tropical land with hot music,
gay carnivals, warm climate,
pretty girls; a cosmopolitan
republic which is often called

end. the scheduled activities of Hugh Campbell, B. K. Kwon

John Poindexter. J. W. Reid,
and Larry Walter.

Registration will begin at |
nine o’clock in the lobby of the] the day.
,College Union. Campus tours As usual, the Frestman Coun-

” , {for the parents will be held im-}cil has planned and coordinated ;
Be ee ean oe iy | mediately afterward. Parents|the annual event. This year Mr.| Juniors: Jim Alexander, J. W.

. ‘ will be assigned to the same}C- Shaw Smith, College Union|D. Atchison, R. Y. Baldwin. A.
Eres eet ity a canal which groups that their sons were as-|President, and Tom Cutting. H. Bracey, C. C. Bremer, J. W.
seven. marvels of modern signed to during this year’s ori freshman adviser. are coordinat-| Carruth, R. D. Croom, C. A.

American Engineeri and ing and advising with the arnt W. S. Farabow, E. W.
re ring an , support of the Council. Hunt, O. T. Kersey, Fred C.
the Panamanians are proud At eleven o'clock the guests | . . ’ ’

fo have eon able To sor will convene in the auditorium] tunel members heading the, tare, DL, MECuDoUEh. MB
humanity that way. of the Chambers Building. The| ° " . oN 1 ae Ds

- Panama has a high and con-| Dean of Students. J C. Bailey, | Robinson, in charge of registra-! Price, N. G. Quantz. Craig Ray.

: ; a : “ing tion: Ed Grimsley. program; D. W. Rhame, C. F. Rich, G. E.
stant North-American influence win owe ulations of. we voilege | Wynd Merritt. accommoda- Richmond, John Scott, Dave

Canal Zone as from the hun and will attempt to anticipate tions: Pat Currie, tours, and Warden. J. H. Wearn, and J.
dreds of tourists that arrive at. and to answer some of the

entation period.

Worth Williamson, invitations. .H. West.

HI-Fl COMPONENTS
At Wholesale Net Prices

in what concerns to Council President Harrison
clothes. movies,’ Wellford will preside.
ete .. What I do not know At ncon parents. their sons
‘if I will survive is the weather.! and faculty members whe tase
‘though everybody tells me it is’ freshmen will have lunch in tho
not cold yet I can not help but dining hall of the. Charny.
‘ache for my 76 average tropical! Building. Each person will pay
one dollar towards the cost of
, 4 oa [the meal.
"7 Parents will then go to ‘the
% Davidson-Richmond football
; game at two o'clock. Compli-
{mentary tickets to  reseryed
a

Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance
126 West Fifth St.

Charlotte 2, N. C.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
The Coca-Cola Company by

Sf
a Se ae

‘

© 1953, tHe COCA COLA COMPANY

“If he should get by you, Emma, double back for the Camels!”

BARBECUE...

Hickory Pit-Cooked Steaks
Country Ham and Chicken-In-Basket

COMPLETE MEALS

“Take Home Service”

Ail Kinds of Sandwiches . . Thick Milk Shakes

The Connoisseur

“MOORESVILLE’S FINEST RESTAURANT”
Roy Church — Buck Mills
Salisbury Drive NOrth 3-2861
Completely Paved Parking Facilities

More people keep going back for Camels
than any other cigarette today. The
Camel blend of costly tobaccos has
never been equalled for rich flavor and
easygoing mildness. Today as always,
the best tobacco makes the best smoke.

By-pass the fads and fancy stuff...

Have a real
cigarette-
have a CAMEL

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co , Wioston-Belom, N. Gb
