Lanin To 2lay For Spring Frolics

Following this trend of informality, the Saturday . used often in the past. A Charlotte firm has been con-.He also provided the music at Princess Grace’s wedding
reputation chiefly from playing at debutante balls and night dance will be a Bermuda affair. There will be no tacted for providing new ideas and planning the motif. reception. He has two currently best-selling LP’s: music

Lester Lanin and his All Stars, who have made their

other society affairs throughout the country, will play
for Spring Frolics, April 18-19, IFC President Bob Jones |
announced tonight. |

Jones commented that the IFC is particularly inter-'
ested in providing a weekend with the emphasis on in-
formality; for this, he said, the IFC felt Lanin was the

best orchestra available.

intermission, and refreshments will be provided at the
dance. The Friday night dance will be formal.

Saturday afternoon an outdoor concert will be held
on the lawn by Phi Hall. Also that afternoon will be a|
tennis match and a baseball game.

Dance Committee Chairman Jimmy Jones stated

All of Lanin’s many orchestras play exactly the
same music, and no written scores are used on the band-

stand. Music is played continuously throughout the,

dance, without an intermission.

Lanin ‘has been contacted to play at the World Debu-

recorded at Gale Vanderbilt Whitney's coming out party,
and at the Tiffany Ball at Newport.

“After eleven dances of pretty much the same thing,
the seniors on the IFC," Jones commented, ‘‘want to
make this dance weekend one that will be remembered

|that decorations will vary from the traditional pattern | tante Ball next July in connection with the World's Fair. | long after we're gone.”

re Gavidsontan |

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLVI

THE WINNER

tih= |

f
a
+

a ae |

!

_~ o
JOHN KUYKENDALL

Martin Says Skits
Key To Situation

By GERALD WILSON
Davidsonian Assistant Editor
“The key to the whole thing was the skits,” stated.

College Treasurer D. Grier Martin.
Mr. Martin was placed injthe character of the student
what he charactcrized as the| body has deteriorated?
“hot seat’ at the DAVIDSON A. “There has been no ma-!
IAN press luncheon Wednesday] jor change in the type of stu-!
noon. The first question dealt|dent here. However, times. pat-;
with the faculty-student “crisis’{terns of life. and family life
of last week and asked if the/have changed.” There will be,
present student conduct prob-|changes, he added, but in the
jem is any more serious than|basic overall pattern, the boys
in past years. = .
To the latter part of this te,
question Mr. Martin said sim-
N

ply, “I don’t think so.” How-
ever, further questioning re-
vealed that he does feel that |
Vesper conduct has worsened,|:
and that something on the line}:
of the resolution submitted by
the Y.M.C.A. cabinet should be
the solution. i

Mr. Martin indicated that the
Student Council had asked to
handle the situation in Vespers,
and that it is generally under-
stood that if they cannot re-
lieve. the situation, then the
faculty or administration will
take action.

BLACKBOARD JUNGLE?

Q@. One person connected with
the College has characterized
the situation with the student
body as a “Myers Park black-
board jungle.” Do you feel that

a 1

TREASURER MARTIN |

Attends News Conference

are neither better nor worse
than when I was a student here.
The moral fiber is essentially

Chorus Announces
8
Spring Tour Plans ee ‘the Trustee’s Commit-

The 1958 Spring Tour of the|tee seeking a new President.
Davidson College Male Chorus; asked you to take the job?
will begin on the 27th of this} A. “No.”
month with a concert at the. HOUSES READY?

First Presbyterian Church in Q. Will the new fraternity
Asheville. North Carolina. houses be ready by next fall?

The tour will then continue] A, “Yes, sir.”
for 13 days, during which the! @, What is the latest report
36 members of the group under|/on the progress of the new
the direction of Donald B. Plott! science building? an
will give a total of 12 concerts.| A. We don’t have the money:

The chorus will give one per-| yet. It will take about $500,000. !
formance each in North Caro-) The proposal calls for a sep-
lina. Tennessee. Kentucky.|arate three story building, be-
Texas. and Louisiana in addi-| hind the present one, facing
tion to three in both Missouri| east. It will house the biology
and Oklahoma. and physics departments, leav:

Each performance will fea-| ing the present building for the
ture a group of southern spiri-) chemistry department.
tuals as well as the works of| @. When will the library ad-
the masters. dition be finished? Will there

This will be the 24th con-|be additions in the number of
secutive Spring Tour. (Continued On Page Four)

,only a slight majority, the vote

‘| highest

votes shall serve as V.ice-Presi-
‘1 dent and Secretary-Treasurer of
'‘;the Senior class, respectively...

Smith Claims Skits
Can Be Acceptable

DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON. N. C FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1958

Kuykendall Edges Gilbert:
Robinson, Stuart, Stanley

Students Pass
3 Amendments

The three proposed amendments to the constitution
were passed by the student body in chapel Wednesday
morning by the necessary two-thirds majority.

The first two amendments,
voted on as a unit, passed by) SECTION 4 OF BY-LAWS ,
} \ Student Body elections shall
being 320 for and 154 against.|be run off in the following
The second amendment passed) order: Student Government,
easily by a vote of 427 to 50. | YMCA, Publications, Class Of-

The amendments read as fol-/ ficers, Freshman Adviser, Stu-
lows: dent Council, Cheerleader, and’

ARTICLE 13, SECTION 2 | Athletic Council.

Each of the three upperclass- ‘
es shall elect a President. The
Senior Class shall elect a Vice-
President and Secretary-Treas-
urer, under the provisions of
Article III. Section 1.

ARTICLE ttl, SECTION 1

There shall be a Student
Council whieh shall be composed
of fifteen (15) members.

These shall be the President.
Ist and 2nd_ Vice-Presidents.
and Secretary-Treasurer of the
Student Body, the Presidents of
the three upner classes, and sev- brary’s Davidsoniana Room
en (7) councilmen. four of .
whom shall be elected by the
senior class, two by the junior
class, and one by the sopho-
more class: and the freshman

It is very interesting to see
some of the changes that have
come about through the years
adviser. which point out the difference!

The two senior councilmen| between the college of old and

having the highest and second | ‘day's “much ‘more liberal" in-

number of electoral | stitution.
STUDY BELL

One of the more surprising
regulations that was stressed in
“|the original charter was found
in the section on student regu-
lations.

In 1872, the Davidson student
was required to remain in his
room from the “study bell,”
after supper, until breakfast
the néxt morning.

There was also a study pe-
riod from 2:00 p.m. till 5:00

“We can have skits that are
acceptable, funny, and clean,”
said C. Shaw Smith in a brief
interview earlier this week.

To prove his point, Mr. Smit
has appointed Bob Shoffner
chairman.. of a committee to
present such skits dypring the
Wednesday chapel periods.

“The students can present force).
clean humor and be just as| No games of chance, sleight
funny, and even funnier, than|Of hand. theatrical or eques-
some of the skits presented on trian performance or natural or
Skit Night." artificial curiosities are permit-

“On the Waterfront” will be|ted on the campus.
shown tonight and tomorrow; It is also stressed that no
night in the Ballroom. It wonjstudent should issue any chal-
an Academy Award for being‘lenge to fight a duel: neither
the best picture of 1954. may a student be allowed to

Marlon Brando and Eva Marie/ act as second in a duel of any
Saint, the stars, also won nature.

Academy Awards for Best Actor, This rule is still in the chart-

Sen

required to attend.

Morals are also stressed in
the original charter (and the
second charter that is still in

and Best Sunoorting Actress,|er. as it has never been amend-
respectively. ed.
“Placement interviews will| Another article pertains to

continue to be held next. week,”|the question of alcoholic bev-
added Mr. Smith. “The Colgate-;erages near the campus. The
Palmolive Company representa-| article states that any person
tive will be here Monday and. or establishment which has or
the Northwestern Mutual Life'sells any alcoholic or “spiritu-
Insurance representative will be' ous” liquors within two miles
here Tuesday. . of the college is liable in any
Also, Joe Williford, a student,' legal Court of Records for $200!
will be in the Private Dining fine.
Room No. 1 from 2 to 5 pm.| One half of the fine is for
Monday for those desiring work! use by the informer and the
with the Ware-ever. Company | other half by the college.
during the summer.” | _ Another article states that no

h| Pm. which the students were}.

Win Student Sody Posts

-~

Xi

DABNEY STUART
2nd Vice President

DAVE ROBINSON
Ist Vice President

DUELS ALSO PROHIBITED —

College Charter Outlaws
Alcohol Within Two Miles (

By HENRY RAMSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Among the many interesting articles of Davidson's past one finds in the li-

is a copy of the original charter of the college with

‘its various amendments and innovations.

student shall have on campus many of the amendments to the
any “guns, pistols, dirks, or! document deal with the size and
other deadly weapons." the length of term of the board
No student was allowed to] of trustees.
visit a “tippling house". or place} Originally the board was to
of “II} Fame” nor could they! consist of not more than 49
use any profane language or members, but in 1928 a clause
be found guilty of any other, was added that allowed up to
“grossly immoral conduct.” 100 members on the board.
The students were also pro-' It is evident that the college
hibited from mistreating any of,charter has changed through
the’ servants" who were em-‘the years, but in the future
ployed by the college in 1872.’ changes will continue ‘to be
Students ‘who were found | made which would seem dras-
guilty of disguising themselves | tic now but will seem humorous
in any way when committing an!to the student of the future.
offense, were subject to imme |

“avy sueouare (Nesller Awarded
MBA Scholarship

The majority of these requ-!
Bill Kestler, Jr., a senior, has

lations can be found in the!
original charter which has been!
amended many times since the] heen awarded the Davidson-
founding of the school. A good University of North Carolina
Business Sehool Scholarship.
‘The award of $1000 annually
| was given for the first time this
| year.

Dr. Charles Ratliff, chairman
of the Depart-

Dr. Davidson Takes
Part in Symposium

ay

a. ment of Eco.
Dr. Chalmers Davidson was nomics and
a member of the Panel on Edu-|{ ‘-2 Business, re-
cation at the recent University: : marked _ that

“Davidson is in-
deed _ honored
to be able to
select from its

of North Carolina Symposium.
The Panel was composed of:
Dr.. Katherine McBride, Presi-.
dent of Bryn Mawr College. who|
represented the all-woman’s col.’ graduating class
lege. Dr. Davidson who repre. each year an
sented the all-men’s college, outstanding student for a MBA
Dean Wm. C. Archie of Wakel| scholarship at Chapel Hill.”
Forest who represented the co-} Kestler. a native of Concord.
educational colleges, and Dr.)is the holder of an A.K. Phifer
Marguerite Roberts, Dean of Scholarship. He is a member of
Westhampton College of the Sigma Nu social fraternity.
University of Richmond who! Davidson. which had sole au-
represented the coordinate col- thority. and responsibility for
lege. ,determining the winner of the
The Pane! was held in Carro!l| award, based the selection chief-
Hall at the University, was open'ly on the students’ collegiate
to the public, and was tape re-|records and potential for
corded for preservation. managerial responsibility.

‘ca

Kestier

| Stanley

i Robinson picked up a_ strong

‘ NO. 20

Wins Tap Office In
Light Vote, 223-207

The big one is over. John Kuykendall won a close-
ly fought battle with Roy Gilbert for the Presidency of
the Davidson College student body.

, Dave Robinson and Dabney Stuart were elected
yesterday to serve as first and second Vice-Presidents,

respectively.
Verner Stanley outpaced Jim trouble on the second ballot

Bootle in the final round yester:, with John Huie running close

day to become Secretary-Treas-|on his heels. Thursday was a

urer of the Student Council. different’ story. Stuart gained a
The most. salient fact of the .

whole election story was the

light vote cast in all of the ‘

elections. Voting in Chapel and ¥

in the Union ran about the same

numerically. Generally speak-|! ‘ . ;

1ing, about 50° of the student , | ;

ibady, and sometimes less, elec-|

ted student body officers -for

| next year. :
A summary of the entire elec-!

‘tion story follows: In the Pres.'

idential race,

leading the

field in previ-|}

pus clections. ;

Tom Cutting

-was_. climinated.

\ Kuykendall and’

Gilbert rani,

. neck - and-neck, !
a muy

with only five
votes separating
ROSS SMYTH
Out-going Prexy votes

t

|them. Early in the counting
| Friday, it became evident that
Kuykendall was holding his
vote, plus picking up most of
the former Cutting votes. Gil-
bert picked up a few more votes,
but not enough.

The  vice-presidential story
was quite another thing. Dave

| | strong vote in the early count-

-ing, and in the final tally was
less than a dozen votes behind
Robinson.
Verner Stanley was élected -
in the final vote over Jim Bootle
(Continued On Page Four)

vote in early balloting, and held
the pace all the way to the end.
Dabney Stuart almost got into,

Otts Lecturer
Urges Missions

Dr. Charles Ranson began the 1958 Otts Lecture
Series, Context and. Calling: a New Setting for the Mis-
sionary Task, at the Vesper Service Sunday.

Speaking on ‘Trends and Ten.
sions,” he compared the tech-
nological unity achieved in the
world today with the effort that’
is being made through world
missions to unite the world in‘
Christ.

He pointed out effectively:
that this progress in commiuni-
cation and transportation has|

come before man developed far}

enough spiritually to. use them to examine the relationship of
to tell the life-giving truth of the Church to missions in its

: | historical perspective before it
Christ to the many who have’ os be understood today.
not heard it.

It is undeniable that the Pro-

FACTS AND FALLACIES testant Reformation caused a

In his Monday morning lee-/severe schism between the
ture, Ranson spoke on the sub-! Church and missions, which was
ject, “Facts and Fallacies.” ap- Opposed only by the Roman
plying the two terms to various Counter-Reformation.
attitudes about the Church to-. The breakdown of feudalism
day. -eaused a nationalism which

One of the most important!tended to destroy the idea of
“facts” is that Christ must be{world-wide Christendom and
preached because of the com-: the ecumenical character of the
mand to do so and his prayer Church.
that all might be one. rather| Missions began to be revived
than such pragmatic reasons as! (Continued On Page Four)

the need to combat Communism.
{ One “fallacy” is the opinion
that missions is not an integral
part'of the Church today.

CHURCH AND MISSION

-“Church and Mission" was
the subject of Ranson’s Monday
evening lecture, in which he
pointed out that it is necessary
