Weather Report

TONIGHT: Partly cloudy with rain

near midnight.

TOMORROW: Occasional rain —
High—42;  Low—34. Some
snow in the mounteins.

Che

HaAutsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

“Crisis In The North”

(See Page 2)

VOL. XLVI

NEARING COMPLETIO

v.
=a

Sle _ 4

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1958

N

‘And Marterie Entertain
|

600 Dates Expected

a
a” |

Over six hundred dates arrive today, along with
Buddy Morrow and his Orchestra, for the Mid-Winter

An already completed fraternity house is seen in the background through the window of |Dances which begin tonight with a formal dance from

one in progress. The court should be finished by Fall.

Dr. Davidson Speaks Out
Against Expansion Trend

“We would be in effect
throwing .away what we
have and what Harvard and
Yale have spent millions of
dollars to obtain.” This
statement brought applause
from the student body.

STANDARD FOR SIZE
He offered us u standard fur

determining the relative values
of varying sizes. of student
bodies two hypotheses formula-
ted by Dr. J. L. Moreno, au-
thority in Sociometry:

“* If not at least one third
of the members of (the) group
know each other the body of

monetary benefits of the | students is under the saturation

large university. point of a co-existential group;

Citing such functional advant-{if not at least fifty percent of
ages as the larger Jibrary and ¢
more modern scientific appara- he
tus in the bigger school, Dr. Da-|.. °°”
vidson pointed out their fre-
quent inavailability to students.

In addition, he emphasized the
general lack of a personal re-
lationship between the profes-
sor and the student at the larger
institution.

BOOKS ONLY

Quoting a statement from the
Headmaster of Lowell House at
Harvard, after their recent con-
version to small college units,
Professor Davidson revealed the
dangers of expansion as well as
a universal trend in higher edu-
cation:

“* In both places (Yale
and Harvard) we were get-
ting an inereasing number
of students who derived
nothing but the benefits of
the formal curriculum for
their time at college.
“‘There were men who spent

three, and sometimes four, years,
without making any friends, and
‘ the friendshins when made were
increasingly matters of small] Mr. D. Grier Martin today
groups. gave a favorable report on the

“* The primary object then,|new post office. He stated that
was to provide architectural it is complete except for the
forcing beds (the small colleges | paving and certain fixtures.
or houses) for extra-curricular! The paving is being delayed
effects which had come without) by unfavorable weather condi-
conscious effort when these two! tions. The fixtures are supplied
places were small colleges in'by the federal government and
small towns dominated by the!will probably arrive around the
college.’ | middle of March.

“You who are to be -future|
trustees think on these things
to see if there be any value in
them.” With such a request Dr.
Chalmers Davidson closed his
Tuesday chapel address empha-
sizing the virtue in continuing’
the smallness of this institu: |
tion,

Stressing the intangible
valves resulting from Da-
vidson’s tradition as a small
college, the librarian and
history professor saw the
advantages of a closely-
knit campus outweighing
any formal, professional, or

DR.

'New Post Office
Nears Completion

DAVIDSON

Tis A Winter’s Tale:

la

Once upon a time in a charmed region, a land of
birds and butterflies and other winged creatures, there
dwelt a noble race of men, fathered by wisdom and
mothered by prudence. They surmounted the turrents
of knowledge and faith—the tops of their temples tangent
with heaven.

Into this fair vale crept unrest and discontent.
Something had to be done. A proclamation was sent forth
whereby the fairest damsels of all realms were sum-
moned to appear. Gay nights of dancing—soft morns of
slumber—joviality prevailed.

Time To Retire

There came a time when these noble men tired of the
strain of play and were ready to retire to the peaceful
seclusion of their daily toil. The trumpets were sounded
to summon the flock from their pastoral whims and the
maidens were dispersed again throughout the land. Re-
luctant was this parting and so there was declared an an-

AA

9-1 in Johnston Gymnasium.

Ralph Marteric and his Or-
chestra will arrive tomorrow to! new attendance record for
play for a concert in Chamhers! Mid-Winters.
Auditorium at 3:30 and the in-. Jimmy. Jones, chairman of the
formal dance from 8-12 in the’ decorating committec, an-
Gym. r) | nounced that decorations for the

. . . 1Gym would be centered around
Intermission tonight will be) a Valentine theme.

at 11:30 and tomorrow at 10:30.| Jn order to get two national-
The figure tonight will be pre-jjy.famoius bands to Davidson for
sented at 11 p.m. the same weekend, the IFC has

Belk dormitory, the Infirm-i arranged an exchange program
ary, the President's House, and| with the Germans Club of
a number of local homes are! V.P.I.

Most fraternities are planning
after-dance parties for either
Friday or Saturday nights.

‘those who know each other al-
so like each other, the body of
fstudents is under the satura-,
: tion point of a cohesive group.’ "|

At Davidson, he continued.
“we know each other well all full as the prospect of over

;enough to elect the respected | 600 dates descending on the Da-
land like each other well enough | ¥idson campus threatens to set

SMALL COLLEGE VALUES | Thirty Leave At End
Of First Semester

Thirty students have left school after the first se-
mester of the 1957-58 session. This list released by Dean
Bailey this week shows a marked increase over the
twenty-one withdrawals of last year’s first semester.

In addition to those who have
withdrawn for various reasons,
five students completed the re-
quirements for graduation.

Among the “intangible values”
resulting from the fact that Da-
vidson is a small college, Dr.
Davidson enumcrated the quali-
ty of student democracy, a re-
ligious concern, a respect for
tradition, mutual trust, and
good ‘manners.

“The fact thet they (the
above values) are old stuff
reveals that they are a part
of. the fabric of your be-
ing.” involuntary Withdrawals At
Close of First Semester

1956 1957 1958

Dean. Bailey also noted that! Freshmen 0 0 0
Dr. French Directs fifteen students have entered) Sophomores 6 65 ‘
( { R H the college for the second se-| Juniors 4 0 t
ourse n ussiall mester and that of these fifteen, | Seniors 1 0 1
nine are former Davidson stu-| Total: lt 5 11
| Davidson College, after per-j dents.

sistent pressure from members| Two significant increases may TOTAL WITHDRAWALS

of its student body, has taken| be noted. The number of juniors, 956. "957 908

ia step forward in the effort. to
-erase the language barricr: be-
tween the
{ Russia.

who have withdrawn voluntari-
‘ly has jumped from zcro fo five.
United States andjand the number of sophomores

who have left involuntarily has

For the first time Davidson, increased from five to nine.
now offers a non-credit course} ‘The ratios-of all other figures.
in Spoken Russian. ; however, are consistent.

The course is directed by Dr.. Student Council violations
Howard French, who meets with| constitute none of the withdraw-
the class on Tuesday for onejals. The Dean mentioned that
‘hour. The majority of the stu-isome of thase who have with-
{dent's work time is spent in: drawn have entered other
ithe wew language laboratory.| schools or the armed. services.
working with tapes and a book] Although the Bursar's office
designed for the U. S. Armedikeeps no record. of the exact
Forces Institute. number of cars on campus.

Although the course is not, about fifteen riew auto permits
an accredited one, Dr. French have been sold for the second
says that there is a possibility} semester.

‘ that it might be fully accredited | Voluntary Withdrawals at Close
some time in the future: how- of First Semester

Broyles To Lead
Student Vespers

Vernon Broyles will lead the
vesper service commemorating
the “Universal Day of Prayer
for Students” Sunday night at

Charlie Helms and Harry Pas-
chal wit! speak on our identifi-
cation. with Christian students
around the world and the uni-
versal problems and. demands of
Christianity.

The YMCA Commission on
Mission of the Church planned
the service. which is the first

ever, that decision rests with| 1956 1957 1958)one led entirély by students in
the curriculum committee. Freshmen 5 6 5 [several years.

The information concerning| Sophomores 8 8 7 Fifty-seven countries are par-
| the student's participation in the| Juniors 2 0 § |ticipating in the commemora-
course will be included on his| Seniors 1 1 2, {tion of this universal worship
lrecord however. Total 13° «15 19 | program.

For Mid-Winters Dance

——

Ey

KC

MARTERIE

MORROW

Work Progressing
On Library And
Frafernity Court

Work is being done as rapid-
ly as possible on the new fra-
ternity court and library.

During good weather, which
is necessary for construction,
the laborers are working over-
time on the court in order to

make as much progress as pos-:

sible.

Mr. Martin commented, . “I
still believe that. the [fraternity
court will be finished by fail -
There have been, however, a
good many difficulties, in addi-
Won to the weather. to delay
progress,

_For instanee, an underground
spring was discovered upon dig-
ging under the sixth house in
order to place conerete foot-
ings.

As: to the library, the sched-
lute is being maintained. The

7:30 o.m. in the College Church. new wing will probably be com- '

‘pleted by fall, but there is a
great deal of work to be done
other than the wing.

The ‘basement floor is to be
renovated, and an opening is
to be made between the lobby
and the wing. This inside work
‘is scheduled to be done during
the summer.

“But we are not at all sure
that this work will be completed
by fall,” added Mr. Martin; “but
the library will continue to be
used while the changes are be-
ing made.”

NUMBER FIFTEEN

College Gets 16 Foreign
Scholarships; Morrow

RichardsonFoundation
Grants Total $76,500

A scholarship program which will bring as many as
:sixteen forcign students to Davidson College each year
‘for four years, has been made possible ‘by grants from
The Richafdson Foundation, Inc., and the Mary. Lynn
Richardson Fund, both of Greensboro. These grants are
subject to renewal.

In addition to tuition. fees. room. laundry, and books,
the Richardson Foreign Scholars will receiye a grant
of $200 for travel in the United States during the sum-
mer following their year at Davidson. The students will
receive their board through arrangements with Davidson
{College fraternities and other student groups.

EIGHT GRANTS

Included in the program
are eight tuition grants to-
taling $4,000 per year to Da.
vidson College to help cov-
er the difference in the tui-
tion paid by students and
the actual cot af their edu-
cation.

from .which . the Richardson
Foreign Scholars are expeeted
(Continued On Page 4)

\Trustees fo Meet

| Here Wednesday
Selection of the students to
e scholarships will be

| Feceive th Davidson College Board of
mide on a competitive basis| Trustees will hold -their semi-
with the cooperation. of selec-| annual meeting’ here Wednes-
tion committees in each of the' day. February 19, at -ten o'clock
foreign countries and. the In-|in the faculty room in Cham-
stitute of International Educa-| bers.

tion in New York, Final selec-}| The Executive Committee will
tion of the winners will be made| meet Tuesday afternoon before
by the College on the basis of|the Board meeting to discuss
the recommendations of the se-| the affairs of the College and
lection committees. will make recommendations to

Vick Chemical Company, ope-|the full Board the following
rating in many of. the countries; morning.

WAS THE NEWS RIGHT?

Brown Soothes
Prexy Rumors

By GERALD WILSON
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

_ An athletic looking man who appeared much young-
[er than his forty some years sat across the table eating
the same type of breakfast as the ten or twelve freshmen
scaled behind him were devouring.

He was dressed in a neat‘ivy first. “Have you been ap-.
league suit. As he turned his. proached by the committee?
‘head slightly, one noticed a'tTrustee’s committee to select
slight grey in gia new President of the College)”
of ‘the témples.! “No. I have had a limited con-
As he finished. tact with the committee through
breakfast he lit my position as chairman of the
1 Herbert Tarey-|Synod’s Committee on Higher
ton. one of the. Education.”
five that he was’ Q, It has been rumored (Julian
to light in the Scheer in the CHARLOTTE
next ,.jialf-hour.| NEWS) that you have been ‘un-
The Reverend, der consideration for the posi-
Lynnwoodition. Are you aware of this?
Brown, a ru-{ A. “It would be a complete
mored = succes-, assumption on my part. . San
assumption which I haven't
made."

(Continued On Page 4)

‘

‘

BROWN

sor to Dr. Cunningham was be:!
ing interviewed.
The hardest questions came

nual commemoration of this feast.

A Time Of Jovialty

Not to break with ancient tradition, we of this gen-
eration and time attempt to preserve some of the flavor
of days gone by. Still the maidens make the pilgrimages,
perhaps not quite so eager, but expectantly.

No longer do the panneled walls ring with the state-
ly minuets nor does the revelation of a shapely ankle
provide scandalous delight. Joviality still staggers to the
forefront as the festivities not now so much in contrast
with daily activities, reach their height.

Soon To End

Soon things must come to an end and once again we
must withdraw from this carefree scene of festive days.

But now, on the verge of abandon, let our clarion
call resound through the halls of learning, veil the statues
of pendantry, uncage the slumbering spirits of mirth .. .
and hide.
