FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1958

Cats Enter Conference
Tourney With 9-14 Mark

~~ Sportstulf |

BY
q Jity = GEORG

E RAMSEY

Comes the spring of each year, and man bursts from
his winter hibernation into the great outdoors. So the
annual ritual finds man transferring his athletic endeavor
to the great cxpanse of nature.
Tennis fans are high in their hopes of the |
Wildcats regaining the Southern Conference
title held in the days of Corky Clark, Lacy Kees-
ler, and Co. Coach McKee lost only one member
of last year’s squad which finished in the runner-

up slot in the loop tourney.

Back again for another season with the netters are
Dave Pearsall. Bob Huffaker. Semi Mintz, Dick Hodel,
Harry Broome, John Poindexter, Mike Martin, Tom Mce-
Cutchan, and Sam Zimmerman. From this crew plus some
promising freshmen, McKee should mold a crew well!
worth watching.

Meanwhile, out on the oval track of Richardson
Field, Coach Whittle busies himself with his varied track |
and field participants. Prime candidates for glory should:
be sprinters Marvin Bentley, Brownie Thurman, and Ed!
Kiser, hurdlers Scott Woodmansee and Chris Bremer,
jumpers Bremer and John Huie, distance runners Jim
Alexander, Henry Brown, Angus McBryde; Al Mackay,

and Graham George, with Dale Gramley, the ‘Cats ace in seventh place tie with the ‘Cats. |

the shot put and discus throw, backed up by Stuart!
Nickles. .
Davidson baseball, after a rather poor season in
1957, will attempt a comeback this year. The verdict will
be heavily dependent on the results turned in by the
pitching staff and the rate at which the young guard de-
velops.
Returning for another season of mound
duty are Dave Page, Allen Moore, Pat Hender-

Scott

| Wofford Bumps Off

Davidson Hoopsters
‘In Finale, 64-62

By PRENTICE BROWN
Davidsonian Sporss Writer

The final act of Davidson

basketball play: comes to a close

next week as the ‘Cats travel

to Richmond for the Southern

Conference Tournament. Coach
will put his quintet
through ten hard days of. drill-
ing in final preparation for the
climax of the 1997-58 season.

A loss to Wofford last Friday
gave the Wildcats a 9-14 record
going into the tournament. The
locals overcame a 14-point
deficit only to drop a 64-62 de-
cision to the Terriers.

MINTZ HITS 14.3

Semi Mintz, for the second
straight year, led the Wildcat

lscorers with a 14.3 average,

nosing out Dave Hollingsworth,
who finished with a 14.0 aver-
age. At the free throw line
Mintz hit a phenominal 97 out
of 111 attempts for a 87.3 per-
centage, which should figure
among the nation’s top five.
The Wildcats’ opponent in
the tournament depends on the
outcome of the Furman-Citadel
contest played last night.
Should ‘The Citadel win, Da-
vidson will finish seventh in the
conference and will play run-
ner-up George Washington. If
Furman wins, they will carn a

with a 4-8 record.

However, if the Paladins de-
feated the Wildcats by a greater
margin than the 'Cats beat them
in the two-game split. Davidson,
therefore. would finish eighth
and face the rugged Moun-
taineers of West Virginia in the
opening round. As Dr. Tom
Scott says, “the sweat is on.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dau

wsonta

) eee

nt 2 sn |

a

S$

"s

Husky Hollingsworth

Cleans ‘Cat Boards

By JIM HAMILTON

Davidson Sports Writer

With a quick maneuver

he slides into the foul lane.

The ball bounces high off the boards. A long arm goes
up. The flick of fingertips meeting ball, the swish of the

net, and Dave Hollingsworth
for the Davidson Wildcats.
For three campaigns now, big;
Dave. who stands 6 ft. 4 inches
and weighs 200 pounds. has been
scoring points and grabbing re-

_d

'

NY |
|

Ce

DAVE HOLLINGSWORTH
Ace Rebounder |

has added two more points |

bounds for the ‘Cats. However.
Dave almost ended up at another
school.

Three years ago the former:
Alaskan came down from thet

frozen north to enroll at Caro- on fifth pla¢e. Three wins and in the running.
lina. But cagey Danny Miller,! four

jat that time head cage mentor! Betas and Phi Gams. the sixth Delts downed the Sigma Nus. emerged with five wins and six

at Davidson, lured Dave down

to look over the campus. Dave

liked what he saw and stayed.
HUSTLE |

Since then he hds contributed dependents are in.cighth place Kappa Sigs to a 56 to 26 victory |
greatly to the team “with his: with no wins and six losses. The over the Pikas, while the Sigma‘
hustle and aggressiveness on the Sigma Nus have won none and Chis. led by Patterson. downed
as ‘lost séven, placing them ninth the independents, 72 to 42.

boards and offensively,”
Coach Tom Scott stated it. '
Dave, a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraterni-
ty, the “D” Club, and the
YMCA Cabinet, has been on
the starting quintet for all |
three of his years at David. ;
son. His five-point per game
average of his frosh year
jumped to 13 his sophomore
season, and rose again, to
14. per contest for this past
year.
This season he connected. on
138 of 354 shots for a point

“total of 323-in 23 games, second

only to Semi Mintz, who com: '
piled a total of 14.3 per game
average,

But it is with rebounds that

Dave comes into his own. The
big forward. whe resembles
somewhat an Alaskan caribou

PAGE THREE

Betas Grab Handball Title

KA’s
First In

, Kappa Sigs Share

I-F Hoop Play

There'll be a bad day on the hardwood when thet :

‘KAs and Kappa Sigs meet soon. Each of these teams has‘
3ix wins and. no losses apiece, giving them a tie for first
place in the Inter-Fraternitvy basketball tournament.

Close behind the ieaders,
the Sigma Chis have five
wins and only one loss on
their record. Pushing them
from the third slot are the
Pi Kapps, who have won
five games also but have
lost two. In a tie for fourth

place, the Phi Delts and
ATOs cach have a 4-2
record.

The SAEs have won three and
lost three, giving them a hold
losses apiece give the
position in the ladder.

The SPEs and the Pikas are

ina tie for seventh place with game, Davis hit 28 for the

1-5 marks, while the Inde-

en te ———. -

for the season. in both points.

Furman, and his rebound high

was scored against the College:

of Charleston.
When questioned about his
biggest sports thrill, Dave
listed two events. One was
a triple overtime victory for
the championship of Alaska
while he was playing on the
Juneau High squad. The
other was the close defeat
by West Virginia in the
Southern Conference tour-
nament two years ago when
the ‘Cats succumbed only in
the final minutes of play to
the powerful Hot Rod Hund-
ley-led outfit. ;
It might be added. however,

Hudgins, Scott Pace
‘Good’ Tank Season

‘We-have had a good season,”
says Coach George Thompson in
commenting on the 1957-58 edi-
tion of the Wildeat swimming
team.

Coach Thompson said that
the team won the meets they
|should have won. and with the
exception of the loss to William
and Mary in the first meet of
the year, lost tiose which they
had expected to lose.

Led by freshman Tom Hud-
gins and breaststroker Johnny
On Wednesday night the Phi- Scott. the Davidson mermen

7
-

GWATHMEY REYNOLDS
|-F Handball Champs

40 to 33. with Hopper Icading

_losses.
the winners’ scoring in’ the

Hudgins, who set new
school records in the 220-
and 440-yard  freestyie
events, led the team in
scoring with 101 points, fol-
lowed by Scott’s 66-point
total.

Alter a hard fought game.! Jack Rose. freshman driver,
the ATOs pulled ahéad in the has shown great improvement

Snakes. Baker and Owen ted the

jand rebounds. is 21. His best last quarter to win over the Phi’ during the year, and,though the
j evening point-wise was against Gams by a score of 49-34.

{diving could be rated only fair
tthis season, Coach Thompson
looks for a brighter future.

Ned Gwathmey and Jim
Reynolds, the Inter-Frater-

nity handbatl champions, The Southern Conference
have led the Betas to their  mect. is now being held at Lex-
first championship in the ington, Virginia. Thompson

IF sports program. Eleven
wins and no losses put the
Betas in first place with
the KAs, Phi Delts, and
ATOs tied for second place

noted that. he looked to Tludgins.
who. showd show well in his
sPeciallics, as Davidson's. best
chance to make a-good showing.
Gazing into the future, the
with nine wins and two tank tutor forsees a better sea-
losses apiece. son next. year. With the loss of
The. Sigma Chis are in third. only two seniors. Captain Fritz
place with seven wins and four Russell ‘and Bob Jones. from
losses. There are several more: this year’s outfit, and the con-
famos to be played before the stant improvement shown this
remaining. standings will be de+| year. Thompson expects a much
termined. ‘better squad in ‘58-59.

when he gocs after the ball, col-, that he gave plenty of Davidson:

son, Dee Green, and Dee Lide from last year’s. lected 203 rebounds for the sea-| sports fans a real thrill with his

Riflers Trail Deacons |

varsity. The ‘young’ set on wnom much will de-
pend includes sophomore infielders George
Hert, Don Killian, and pitcher-catcher Green.
This bunch, along with seniors Shelbourne Wal-
lace and John Patterson will be the nucleus
around which Coach Tom Stevens must fashion
his team.

W. Mitchell, team coach, has

in ROTC ‘Tournament

A Davidson rifle team that, according to Capt. John

been consistently improving

during the year, is currently in second place in the two!

son. far beyond the total grabbed
by any other member of the
squad.

Dave's individual game high

jump shot in the last five |
seconds of play that edged Fur-
man, 72-70, in their first meet-
ing this year.

-F SCORING LEADERS

For QUICK Service
And G00D Food

—TRY—

SCOTTIE'S DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT

Coach Tom Scott's golf team, hoping to improve its phase North Carolina ROTC Tournament, being held Games _— Total . : .
5-7 record of last year, tinds returning to one links seniors |! Wake Forest. , Name Played Points = = Average Salisbury Drive — Mooresville, N. C.
Johnny Mackorell and Ned Payne, juniors Sam Sloan,! Composed of all freshmen and — with 365 of a possible 400. 1. Bill Ferguson, KA 4 108 270
Bucky D ; d Bill Purk d hs Bobby St t. Sophomores, the relatively inex-| Other Davidson members 2. Charlie Davis, SN 6 121 20.2
ucky Dennis, and bill Furks, and sophs Bobby street, periehced team is competing] are Joe Wearn, Jerry Gat- 3. Bill Joyner, KS 6 87 14.5
Gary Heesman, Sut Alexander, and Ed Armfield. Notably) with teams from UNC, N.C.} tis, Stan Gaines, and Don . Bi oye P eet ; bah “eo
missing from this lineup-are graduates George Scott and| State, Wake Forest and Duke. Harper. 5. Der Killian SX. a 6 82 13.7
Stuart Vaughn, two of '57’s standouts. Freshman Verner potowing the ; tirst jPnase. th a phase of the in-| j Tom Ridenhour PhiGam 5 56 132
. . which was tired [as aturday, e secon phase o e in- * r) :
Stanley, former Myers Park star, is expected to add lustre| 1. Wake Forest unit holds first] vitational tourney will be fired| 7, John Patterson, SX 5 65 13.0
to the scene. ; !place, with a score. of 1808 out} at Wake Forest tomorrow. Totals! g Eq Lewis, ATO 6 77 12.8
Prophecy so often fails, so it behooves us to keep of a possible 2000. Davidsonjof the teams for the two phases 9. Dee Lid ‘ Pi K 6 73 1 °
prediction at a minimum and hove at a maximum. Any- trails with 1758. In a third place| will be added to determine the * Ree tide, Ft Rapp 2.2 7
* ' winner. 10. Fred Streetman, KA 6 71 11.8

one of these athletes mentioned may blossom into a:tie. with 1740, are the N. C.
State Air Force ROTC team, and

ae

sARESTAYRA

headline-grabber, and some not mentioned may well sur- the UNC Naval ROTC scuad, |." ¢xPlaining the two-phase 11. Harris, Phi Delt 11.4 ppg 16 Swaim, Pi Kapp 9.0 ppg

pass. the efforts of these. At any rate, for the next three | Top gunner for the Wild- firing, Capt. Mitchell explained | i Ferrell, vis 3 ppg 17. Bradford, SAE = 8.8 ppg [Im i.
months, Wildcat sporting eyes will be trained on the! cos sitters in last Saturday's fit the so nen aned te bene: " Bera Pi Kopp ve ppg \ ore ri 87 aa | A AINE LOBSTER
spring sports, fervently waiting for a rich harvest. firing was Dick Wilson, | on one day, and von” at smother | 15. Nash, Pi Kapp 9.5 oes 20. Patterson, PhiG 83 pe

Star Performers!
the ARROW pin-tab

time.

SUPER-WINSTON

PRODUCTIONS pprsEeNTS

—

126 W_TRADE ST.

and tabber Se,
. or MUSH, arreaoy /
They’re the smoothest shirts ’ :
anywhere. And both are yours THE DANGEROUS \. th. °
in a barrel cuff as well as French DAN McPHOO Dine Biro .
and Link Cuff*, British stripes, ——_
miniature checks, solid colors. STORY oh
Thank exclusive Arrow Mitoga _— . we toon
tailoring for their subtly trim A Stirring Saga of é
lines, collar to waist to cuff. . )
“Sanforized”-labeled. From Slush and Mush
$4.00 and up. Cluett, Peabody, ( Achooo! )

& Co., Ine.

*

— ARROW —— iastin toshion

*Frade-merk

Just in...
a glittering selection of
ARROW “tabs”

Be the first to add this new pacesetter to your
wardrobe. And don’t miss out on the Arrow
“extras” that come with these stripes, checks
and solids: trim Mitoga®-tapered lines and the
“Sanforized” label, to mention two. See us soon.

-

IVEY”S of CHARLOTTE

AWRIGHT, DAD,
I'LL TAKE OVER

NOW WAIT A MINUTE
MR. McPHOO, LETS
» TALK THIS OVER.
HERE, HAVE A

WINSTON /

SAvay, WINSTON) >
TASTES GOOD!

SHOULD!

LIKE A CIGARETTE

EVERYTHING WE HAVE WE
owe To WINSTON /

DE CIGARETTE WID
DE FRESH DEEUGHTFUL

® J. ALYNOLOS TOBACCO CO.
WINSTON-SALEM. H.C,
