Sacrifices Recalled On Veteran’s

Davidsonian

Staff Writer

By BILL HELLIER

“Let Léarning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has branches of service. In more than a few cases the officers

Arisen.” Though most Davidson students are quick to
recognize the preceding words as their school’s motto,
few realize that many Davidson Alumni personally have
paid dearly for this liberty.

On Tuesday, November 11th, Americans will ob-
sérve Veteran’s Day in memory of those who have fought
for our country’s freedom. Davidson in particular is
able to look with pride at the record of her men who have
served in this country’s Armed Forces during war time.

Of the 2640 alumni who entered the Second World
War, 1503 were commissioned as officers in one of the

Nix, Frosh Clash
(Page 2)

VOL. XLVI
|g

te

v
ot of,

Yi

“The inheritance of a fine
thing automatically imposes an
obligation on the beneficiary.

You are obligatedasa Davids

student to govern yourself in
accordance with the Davidson
tradition. You are obligated
to the future also; for
the sake of the men who come
after you, keep the tradition, of
student government strong, im-
prove upon it, leave it in even
finer shane for the next college
generation.”

These are the words of Sam-
uel R. Spencer, Jr., as he spoke
in Chapel on the morning of
March 22, 1946. His words stand

\% as a challenge for the uphold-
ing of a Davidson tradition that
has evolved since its birth at
the turn of the century.

ARCHIBALD CURRIE
Student Government at Da-

vidson, from the opening of the
college up to the election of

‘Davidsonian’ Wins
National Award

The fourth consecutive All-
American rating has. been
awarded to the DAVIDSONIAN
by the critical service of the

. University of Minnesota. OF 45
college weekly newspapers in
the 750-1400 enrollment
_ bracket, seven received this
highest rating.

The critique from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota mentioned
particular strengths. The cov-
erage of President Martin's
election by the Trustees last
spring was cited “outstanding.”
On creativeness the service
commented that the “staff de-
serves recognition.”

Comments were also made
about the various sections. Fea-
tures were hailed as “a pleasure
to read.” The critic considered

, editorial “a strong point.” The

‘sports section is said to not
“miss a trick” in its presenta-
tion.

The entire staff was said to
“excel in writing.” Editorial
make-up was rated the “best of
the best.”

The awards are presented for
a semester period of publica-
tion. This fourth consecutive
All-American rating covered the

s’second semester of last year,
giving the DAVIDSONIAN an
All-American rank for the past
two years.

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Archibald Currie as the first
student body president, was by
the class system. Class spirit
and unity ran high. Such one-
ness was necessary in the face
of possible hazing or even an-
nihilation by the respective
classes. If disciplinary action be-
came necessary, the class presi-
dent called a meeting of the
class, and as an entire group,
the action to be taken was de-
cided.

During this period, two stu-
dents brought a five gallon jug
of whisky up to the third floor
of Old Chambers and offered
drinks to all who passed at a
nominal price. History has it
recorded that they departed
shortly afterwards.

In 1896, Archibald Currie was
elected the first President of
the Student Body. The genera-
tions of students from 1896 un-
til 1910 still stayed close to the
old class system. The dangers
of hazing kept this system alive
and is credited by Miss Corne-
lia Shaw in her history of Da-
vidson as the beginning of our
real student government. Haz-
ing became so bad that the stu-
dents finally agreed on Septem-
ber 6, 1909, to settle the prob-
lem once and for all.

NEW ERA

Miss Shaw says:

“The action of September
6th marked the beginning of a
new era at Davidson College —
though not to be of long life
Lee the releasing of scores
of immature students from the
restraint formerly exercised by
their fear
seemed to lead to more noise
and disturbance After
a full conference with the pres-
ident of the college the stu-
dents decided in the spring that
year (1910) to adopt a system
of self-government that would
protect domestic comfort, se-
cure quiet and good order for
the campus and dormitories,
and regulate any conduct of
students, individually or
through student organizations,
that affected the health or repu-
tation of the student-body. To
carry the new system into ef-
fect, the student council was

organized

ee ee eee

In the spring of 1910 a rising
senior, the future father of Da-
vidson student government as

oh

——

" ad

6
i
4

Harold Westervelt (left) follows _.} on Delta Kappa President Craig Wall (right).
‘to the stage of Chambers Auditorium after being tapped for membership in the honorary
leadership fraternity. Six seniors became ODK members during chapel Tuesday.

Student Government
Develops Through Years

of being hazed}.

and enlisted personnel from this school showed outstand-
ing bravery, with 256 Davidson men receiving a total of
776 decorations, including a Congressional Medal of
Honor Award.

During World War II, 159 men lost their lives. in-
cluding Lieutenant H. M. “Jimmy” Fulcher, Jr. son of
Professor Fulcher of the present Physics department.
Two brothers, Lieutenant Edward T. Erwin and Captain

Phifer Erwin, in whose honor Erwin Lodge was present-
ed by their parents. Dr. E. T. Erwin. former Davidson
English professor. and his wife, also lost their lives dur-

f*

liberal arts college.

The _ visitors, approximately
~~] forty in number, were to con-,
centrate their attention on Da-!
vidson's curriculuny, student ac-
tivities and program of long
term development.
serves the college in an advis-

lating the legislative. policy of
the institution.

Included on today’s agenda!North Carolina.
were reports and discussions of! Huger S. King, business execu-

we know it. was elected presi-
dent of the student body. C. R.
Wilcox set un the student coun-
cil and made it work as an im-
portant part of student. life.

Davidson's present and future
plans by President’ D. Grier:
Martin, Dr. Johnston, Acting
Dean of Faculty, and other col:

lege officials.
The student government con- 8

stitution that we have today is were en iticneting, in the
the product. of much revision
P board’s activities today.

since its origin during the term:
of Wilcox. In 1915 Justice
Frasier, a Davidson atummnus|
and an associate justice of the
South Carolina Supreme Court,
aided in the revision of the
then adopted constitution. Since} and church life. .
that time numerous changes pewly clected i are:
r. Ja axter, resi-
have been made, as deemed dent of Williams College, PWik
necessary to cope with the 8OV-/jiamstown, Mass.; Thomas M.
ernment of our growing com-| Belk, execiative vice president.
munity. Belk Stores Service, Inc., Char-

They were chosen, as were
the other visitors, on the
basis of outstanding lead-
ership and achievement in
the fields of business, civic,
educational, professional

Ibsen’s ‘Ghosts’
Campus Theater Season

The board,

ory capacity as contrasted to! Duke

the trustees’ purpose of formu-} School. Durham.

ing this conflict. Captain Erwin was killed in the crash
of a B-49 bomber in January. 1945, and Lieutenant Er-
win died a few weeks later from injuries received in.ac-
tion on the island of Luzon.

Among the.234 wounded during this war is Lieu-
tenant Edward’ B. Hibbs, whose action is typical of the
courage exhibited by these men. Under fire from enemy \v
rifles and machine guns, Lieutenant Hibbs accomplished
the removal of forty live enemy mines, carrying them
out of the path of a tank and infantry advancement. He
was wounded later that same day and was awarded the

Silver Star for his for his outstanding actions.

yr Dautdsontan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

jay

The rank of General Officer has been attained by
ten Davidson Alumni. Nine of these men were Brigadier
Generals. four of whom are retired, and Brooke E. Allen
is presently a Major General in the Air Force.

After consideration of the sacrifices made by those
who have been here before him, the Davidson student
would do well to pause this November 11th and realize
that his opportunity for learning at Davidson College has
cost a great deal more than the money he pays every
year. Our predecessors have made a priceless ‘‘down-
payment” on our freedom. and we can not afford to use
this freedom unwisely.

Wildcat Miracle
(Page 3)

“DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1958

ODK Invites Six Seniors
Honorary Lead

{|Board Of. Visitors Holds
Third Annual Meeting

Members of the 1958 College Board of Visitors as-
sembled on campus today for the third annual meeting |
of the group, which was organized in 1956 to aid Da-
vidson in adding to its stature as an outstanding Christian

ANDERSON BRUBAKER

lotte; Dr: Lauchlin M. Currie.
president, Union Carbide Nu-
clear Company, New York. City:. -
Harry 1. Dalton, viee chairman:
of board, American Viscose
Company, Philadelphia, Pa., and’
Dr. W. C. Davison, dean of the
University Medical

CLARK

Others’ include: Dr. William) <%
Friday, president, University of ! 7
Chapel Hill; if

tive and former, Greensboro; |
Dr. Thor Johnson. former con-
ductor of the Cincinnati Sym-
phony Orchestra and widely

- known music educator now. lo- "RAMSEY WESTERVELT
cated at Northwestern Univer- - ————
sity, Evanston, Ill; Edward A. PMLA ) bli h

isi. F president. Chemstrand U IS es
jCorporation. Decatur, Ala;

Thomas F. Staley, directing Dr. Watts’ Article
partner, Reynolds and Com-

pany, New York City, and Dr.
; Samuel R. Spencer. president,
Mary Baldwin College, Staun-
‘ton, Va.

! The chairman of’ the Board
of Visitors is Howard Holder.
ness, | president of Jefferson
Standard Insurance Company,
Greensboro. In addition to the

(Continued On Page Four)

Opens

ca contains an article by Dr.-:

Department. The tithe of Dr.
Watts’ article is the Encyclope-
dia Methodique. This is a study
on the history of the publica-.
tion of the 202 volume work,
which has ‘been called
[ty the collection ever produced
followed by an analysis of the
individual numbers and a list
of its constituent elements
Work on this study was com-
pleted at Harvard University
during the summer. of 1957.
when Dr. Watts was a recipient

November 13 and 14 the Red| the very core. When Oswald Al-. not only the Albings. but also] of a Davidson College grant. for

Kemmerer), a
returns from

(George
artist,

and Black Masquers will open: bing
the season with a production of! young

their self-righteous priest (War-| research and writing.
ren Womble), the gay. spirited! This particular article supple-

Henrik Ibsen's famous social{Paris, a grand holiday appears! housemaid (Mrs. Sandra Good-ij ments others of Dr. Watts’ stu-

drama, “Ghosts.” imminent.
The story concerns a Nor. ' However, a series of tragedies
wegian family, the Albings. To} befall the family, during which,

and respectable; but this il-|] family’s secrets, and the holiday |
lusion soon fades, and it is por-; becomes a nightmare. The scan-
trayed as worm-eaten, rotten to|dalous facts disclosed involve’

r whl 7

at?
rf

"i ie
Ml Wy

Tint

a SP, . he

Shown above is a tense moment in the Red and Black
Masquers production of Henrik Ibsen's “Ghosts.” Miss Miriam
Seawell (left), who plays the part of Mrs. Albing, rehearses
under the direction of Ray Atkinson (right). The play will
be performed in Chambers Auditorium on November 13 and
14.

play. has this to say about the |

win), and the = gruff.
gardener (George Johnson).! cially “The Swiss Editions of:
From this start the plot builds|the Eneyclopedie” in the Har-

‘Dr Watts has been doing re-
search in this particular field
of French intellectual and cul-

dience speechiess.

\
The topic of the play is deli-;
cate, so much sv that it was ban-!
ned from the stages of Europe |

ears and ha
for years. Even today. seventy- years an s achieved a place

of distinction among scholars

five years later, the topic is

” _ _ | who work in this special period |
still touchy, and is no less im- of French history. :
portant. ; |

Ray Atkinson, director of the

DC, Queens PI Plan

production: “This play, Ibsen's

; most widely read and most. con Th k Tri [
troversial, represents an at- an sgiving rip
tempt by Davidson’; drama New York is the destination

group to present to Davidson of a bus chartered by Davidson
and the public a profound. ma-! and Queens for the Thanksgiv
ture drama instead of the usual! ing holidays. The bus is tenta-
contemporary play. The electri-| tively scheduled to leave vafter|,

fying last sixty seconds of the|supper on Wednesday, Novem-.
final act cannot be equaled in| ber 26. and return late Sunday!
\theater history for sheer dra-. ‘night. The approximate cost for.’
matic force. ithe bus and the room will be!
“The Red and Black Masquers' thirty dollars. The party will:
this year have the best organiza-| be housed in’ the Hotel Ply-
tion, most interest, and best fi-| mouth by Radio City.
nancial support of any year so| Vacancies for Davidson stu-:
far. In this light. and with the| dents are still open. Anyone in-
play we are working with, there]terested in going on this trip
is no reason why we shouldn't| may contact Ralph Bright at the
have our best season this year.” Union desk any afternoon.

NO.

into

9

ership Society

Makes Chapel Appeal

Davidson's Delta Circle of Omicron - Delta Kappa
leadership fraternity lapped six seniors into membership
in ceremonies during Tuesday chapel. Dr. Donald S Rus-
sell. former president of the. University of South Caro-
na. and himself an ODK member, was guest speaker.

The new members are’ as fol-: cord. N. C,, and holds a°Thomas
lows: iF Stafcy Memorial Scholarship,
Vernon Anderson, from| for pre-ministerial . students.
Union, 8. C., a member of Sigma, O'Briant is serving his second

, Chi social fraternity. has served year’ as Commander of Sigma
! as Interfraternity Council Rep-|Nu_ social

fraternity, and is
president of Bta Sigma Phi.
classical fraternity. He is a

resentative, and as President of
the Interfraternity Council. An-

derson is also a member of
Scabbard and. Blade, a Distin-
guished Military Student, and a

‘member of Phi Beta Kappa, and
of the Faculty Committee on
Religious Life.

The September, 1958 issue of; as Vice-President of Le Cercle
The Publications of the Modern
Language Association of. Amcri-' the Eumancan Literary Society.

George B. Watts of the French! tumbia, § C..

“the ter in soccer.

by the French book-trade.” it is‘

pious! dies on the Eneyclopedie, espe-|

tural history for a number of ' his ‘theme

constantly accumulating knowl:

member of the Honorary Fra’
ternity Council.

PHI BETE

Richard Brubaker, pre medi-
cal student from Macon, Ga..
is a Phi Beta Kappa member.
president of Alpha Epsilon Del-
ta, president of the Honorary
Fraternity Council. secretary of
the Interfraternity Council, and
{Senior Class Secretary Treasur-
[er A cmember -of Alpha Tau
Omega social fraternity. Bruba-
ker is also a Student. Council
representative, and has served

“HANDBOOK” EDITOR

George Ramsey, from Athens,
Ga., is vice-president and his-
torian of Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity, and secretary-treas-
urer of the Intramural Athletic
Council. Ramsey also serves as
Associate Editor of this paper,
and was Editor of this year’s
edition of the Wildcat Hand-
book. He is 4 member of Eta
Sigma Phi, and the YMCA Cabi-
net,

Harold Westervelt, from
Athens, Ga., has been 2 mem-
ber of the All-Southern Confer
ence Football Team for the past
two years, and in wrestling has
been Southern Conference
champion for two vears. Presi-
dent of the “D" Club and mem-

Franeais, and as Secretary of

Samuel Clarke, Jr., from Co-
serves this year
as. Vice-President of Beta Theta
Pi social. fraternity. Captain. of
Scabbard and Blade, and Cadeti ber of the Athletic Council,
;Corps Commander of ROTC.} Westervelt is also a Phi Beta
Clarke also holds a varsity let! Kappa, an Alpha Epsilon Delta
‘member. and a member of Sig-
Walter _Walter O’Griant is from Con. [ma Chi social fraternity.

Donald Russell: ‘‘No
Man Is An Island?’

On Tuesday. November 4, Dr. Donald Russell, Pres-
ident of the University of South Carolina from 1951 to
1957 and gubernotorial candidate in 1958 addressed the
student body in chapel.

Dr. Russell. presently prac be measured by its effect on

l

the casual observation of the|Mrs. Albing (Miss Miriam Sea-!up to an almost unbearable cli-;vard Library Bulletin which ap- “cing law in Spartanburg. S.. the overall philosophy and prin-

townfolk, the family is wealthy] well) is forced to reveal her, max, Which has left many an au-- peared in the Spring of 1955. C was a guest of the Omicron ciples of one’s life. A person is
\ | Delta Kappa Honorary Fraterni.. not judged by the number of

| ty for its fall tapping ceremony.! facts he has at his command
and he aptly chose leadership as but by his philosophy and prin-
ciples which encompass these
Dr Russell pointed out that. facts. We must strengthen our-
our position in life today is es-.selves in order to make our
sentially no different from that i opinion felt in the world.
one hundred years ago. Our Dr. Russell is an advocate of
forefathers encountered as the continuance of nuclear

imany hardships upholding de-i tests, for if we ban them, we

mocracy then ax we do today: are disarming America. Only if
and experienced the same fear;we have a strong military can
towards gun powder then as|we be assured of a command:

We feel towards the atomic] ing position in the world and
bomb in 1958. thereby quell the communist
Human ideas and the movement. We as_ individuals
mind represent a great have a part in these affairs,

;Foreign affairs should be bi-
partisan; each individual should
feel their weight.

As John Donne so notably

challenge today, and we can
meet this challenge and
thereby extend our views
only through education. It

is necessary that we ac- | said:
cumulate all knowledge “No man is an island, entire
possible and have a broad- of itself;

Every man is a piece of the
continent, a part of the
main;

If a clod be washed away by
the sea, Europe is the less,
as well as if a promontory

(Continved On Page Four)

minded outlook on life:
Dr. Russell referred to Win-
ston Churchill as one who was

edge and fitting it into a’ per-
sonal philosophy. Knowledge in
itself is useless; its value can
