PHE BOBTAIL DAVIDSONIAN

Sumer '58 Edition - Number 3

Page 2
HOLIDAY
(continued from page 1)
" 'You and I," Those words hold the key.

You and I, as individuals, are responsible
for the successes and failures of America,
sInat we do, or fail to do, as citizens,
will add up to the strength or the weakness
of our nation.":

A third thing to consider at this time is
our own safety. Ilolidays always seem to
have related to them a note of sorrow.
Post-holiday headlines shout with bold
figures the tragic,toll of those who did’
not live to enjoy and benefit from the
holiday season, "A Hotorist's Prayer," by
David J. “uill, from the Religious News -
Service, is something that should demand a
few moments of our thought and meditation
before we drivers begin our campus exodus
and return.

"Lord, impress upon me the great responsi-
bility that is mine as I take the wheel of
my automobile. As I need Thy guidance in
all things, so now especially do I when I
have life and death in my hands. Give me
always a deep reverance for and desire to
protect human life, ‘hen I would be care-
less, remind me of homes where there is
sorrow and loneliness, of hospitals where
broken suffering bodies lie in anguish
because someone forgot. ‘rite indelibly
upon my conscience that each time I take
the wheel of my car, I ama potential mur-
derer; that in a few careless moments I
could be face to face with dire traredy for
my own family~as well as for others. Give
me grace to practice the Christian virtues
of patience and thoughtfulness at all times.
Help me to show the same courtesy and kind-
ness to other motorists that I want to
expect from them. ‘fhen others exceed the
speed limit or otherwise break the law, let
me not be tempted to do the same. Forrive
my stupidity if ever I think it is permis-
sible to violate traffic laws, so long as
Ido not get caught. ‘emind me often that
I am responsible to Thee as well as to the
state to obey the ordinances of the high-
way; and when I do not, I sin against Thee
as well as arainst my fellowmen, even
though nobody elsé may be watching and no
accident may result. Lord, grant nie con-
trol of my. car and of myself at all times.
Help me to live lawfully and peaceably, to
save life and not to destroy it, and so by
example to lead others to do the same.
Amen."

HAPPY HOLIDAY! !
Th HAPPY HOLIDAY!!
=

MOVIES

Listed below is the movie schedule for the
remainder of the first session of summer
school, Each movie is tentatively scheduled
to be shown twice during the interval of the
dates specified. Watch the daily schedule
board in the College Union for the exact day
and time.

‘View From Pompey's Head" - July 7-
Richard kran - Dana ynter
vameron Mitchell

"uogambo" - Clark Cable - July 15 - 18
Ava Gardner - Grace Kelly

"The ‘acers" - Kirk Douglas - July 22 - 25

Gilbert Roland

"Phe Thing" - Kenneth Tobey - July 28 -

' James Arness August 1

Johnny - tother, why do I keep going around
in circles?

other ~ Shut up and be quiet, before I nail
your other shoe to the floor.

It is not possible to nourish a man's mind
with a single sermonic discussion of a
half-hour a week, The body cannot be sus-
tained by a single meal, and it is very
difficult to have tutored men when the
average minister has only "thirty minutes
a week in which to raise the dead." Now
the food for the soul is a good deal like
the Old Testament manna; it only lasts for
a day. You try to rather up enough to
last for more than that, and it sours on
your hands, Our Bible reading, our prayers
and our devotional life must be a daily
exercise or they are insufficient. —

- Louis H. Lvans, Sr.

A holiday wish:

hay the happiest days of your past
Be the saddest days of your future.

Going to the mountains for the holiday?

On every mountain-height is rest.
- Coethe

The ragged cliff has thousand faces in a
thousand hours.
: - Emerson

A proud heart and a loftv mountain are
never fruitful.
- Ceorge Eliot

Without mountains the air could not be
purified, nor the flowing of the rivers
sustained,

- Ruskin

