Merry Christmas ( | he

VOL. XLVII

A Christmas Story

The old man closed the door behind him, shutting
the howl! and bite of the wind outside, and shook the
snow from his coat. A small fire crackled in the snug
fireplace across the coffered room, and the bare, wooden
floor creaked as he shuffled over to its warmth, He |
dropped his coat on one of the two wicker chairs 7

he passed.

Rubbing his hands, which had been gloveless wl

the cold, numbly before the. struggling glow, he called
wearily, “Jess, You home?”

“Yes'r,” came the reply on a young voice from
the other room of the one-story, wooden home. “l’
‘bout to put the meal on now, Pa. Set down by the
table and we'll eat in a minute.”

¥ Author Program F :

Faces Proklems

For the last month, a

‘YMCA committee has stu-

died the possibilities of

Jess entered through the door to the room where bringing a series of con-
the bed they shared was and went over to the fire. He temporary authors to the

put another log on.
low, too.”

They were auiet for a while as Jess mixed the meal Th
with water from the spring. The porridge began to bub- John Gunther,
ble a little and he asked, ‘““’D you see the man settin’ “Inside Russia Today.”
” Didn't. James McBryde Dabbs. au-
Southern ;
leritage”’ are only a few 7%
Mthat. the committee hopes ‘

by the old well up’t the corner when you come in
look like he had much warm on him to me.”

“Nope. Had my head down t’keep the wind an’
snow outta my face. Didn’t see him. Couldn’t’ve done
nothin’ if | had. Man's gotta keep the snow outta
his face. Go blind ‘f he don’t.”

a

An extra helping of porridge because of the season
of the year put the fire inside the old man and his
boy.

“Good, Jess. Good Christmas meal. Glad I don’t have
t’'go to th’ mill tomorrow. Guess 1 can chop wood in
the morning. Ain’t much t’chop, though, from th’ looks
of things.”

“Yes'r. Today same’s always?”

“Yep. ‘Bout. ‘Cept for some feller botherin’ the
boss this afternoon. Come lookin’ for work this time
a year when there ain’t much doin’ at our place. Said
he was hungry, but so ‘re we. Ain’t no place for no

ly

“Need some wood,” he said. “Pile’s Davidson campus. Such dis-'

tinguished — gentlemen as
William Whyte. author of
e Organization Man."
author

thor of ‘Our

in the future can spend a
/day or more on campus giv-
ing lectures and speaking
to English classes.

Members of the group,
om Colvin, Ed Stephens,
and Ervin Duggan have cor-
responded with a number of
colleges that have estab-
lishéd author programs.
Franklin and Marshall Col-
fege in Pennsylvania has a
series very similiar to that
which the committee hopes
to bring to Davidson.

The problem of funds for the
scries,. however, has offered a
considerable amount of diffi-!

more hungry people. ‘Bout the same’s always, though.” culty. Tho committce disclosed

The evening passed -as always. The snow stopped administration.

that three major sources have |
come under consideration: the
YMCA solitica-

about midnight, after the two had poked the fire and-tion for patrons, and the stu '

set a log on it for coals in the morning and gone to bed.!dent body. Last week, the coin-|
| mittee approached the admini..

The wind dicd down a little after. and from the outside.
the small shaek looked like a brown mole on an-albino p

stration in a conference
resident

earth. The white night was still and the two slept sound-, successful.

ly.
Once tho old man sat quick up in bed and listened.
He asked with his eyes in the dark, “Did I hear somc-
thing’ ?” After he sat motionless for some minutes in
the silence, he answered himself aloud, “Must’ve
been th’ wind.” He had been asleep when the wind
died, and it was too cold to go to the door.

In the morning when the old. man went after the:
wood, he paused a minute and looked down puzzled at
the prints of bare feet in the still snow in front of the
door. Ile muttered under his breath and shambled to-
ward the woodpile near the pump.

N.C. Teachers Pick!
Maloney President

On December 6 at Pfeiffer
College in Misenheimer, North
Carolina, Professor Samuel D.
Maloney was elected president
of the North Carolina Teachers
of Religion for 1959.

This is an association of about

The following statement was
released by the administration
this weck:

Chairman Colvin remarked,
“President Martin explained
that the administration wa>
unable to provide any funds
for this project. He also
stoted that for various rea-
sons he felt it unwise for the
Y to solicit money or use its
own.”

The committec. however. is
continuing ils study of author
programs on other campuses in
hopes that funds will be avail.
able soon.

‘Monaghan Statement:
The Matter Is Closed

that no cuch criticism had
come to his attention during
the last three years and that
he (Dr. Mayer) sincerely re-

164 teachers of Bible and re-| “As a result of an investi- aver’

ligion from colleges, universi-'gatian by college officials, 9°etS tho situation created at
ties, and seminaries throughout |American Viewpoint, Inc., the Oavidson.

the state. Doctor Maloney was;organization which arranged The chain of events which

the vice president of this or-,for the appearance at Davidson
ganization for 1958. College of Dr. Frank Monag-

led up to the issuing of this’
statement began on August. 26.!

of ;
and ‘4

with!
Martin, but was un‘!

Monday night, December 15.

A

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1958

SCHOOL...
CHRISTMAS... LET’ER ROLL

~ |Special Yule Activities
‘Dominate Final Week

Dave Warden, disguised as Santa Claus, delighted children from the Barium Springs Or-
phanage. The annual Christmas Party, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council was held

(Photo by Rhyne) |

Christmas Spirit Always

‘Arrives Wik Orphans

_Son,

said Richard Brubaker,

By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

from the Barium: Springs Children’s Iom> to their annval Christmas party.

Shyty and quietly they shuf-
fled into the Union Ballroom,
where they were entertained by
a jazz eombo composed. of Tom-
“my: Colvin. Dave Hall. Larry.
Baggett. and Tenny Deane. The
“group played ©Mickey . Mouse.”
~Tenderly,” and “Rudotf. the
Red Nased Reingleer.” which
was jotned in by the ‘still timid

youngsters and led by. comic
: Colvin.
John Starling, Hub Knox,

Pete Wyrick, and Doug Orr
provided some guitar music
and singing. By this time the
chifdren had begun to be
their glistening selves again.
The lively ‘youngsters were
hustled through the snow to
the feslivety decorated’ fraterni-
ty ‘houses by nearby brothers.
At the houses the tasty holiday

fare disappeared so quickly
that onc wondered. how so
small a child could hald so

Goodykoontz

much food.

{nstead of lothargizing them.
the. food. seemed to chergize
them to even greater heights of
boisforousness.
hula hoep contests, binge. ard

many other games were de-
signed to keep:
‘happy and quict.

However, they seldom were ,

as enthusiastic about play-
ing these games as some of
the brothers were. The oc-
casional “Why are we ploy.
ing these stupid games?
want my present!” was eal
ty ignored.

Main event of the evening
was, of course, the arrival of
Santa Claus. IHs bounding into
the room was often aecompa-
nied by o whistled version of
“Jingle Bells.” to which Santa

remarked. “No whistling. Ha!
Ho!"
One fraternity encouraged

Squelches

the chihiren.

Sanfa to gél into wchula hoep:
however, bis padding prevent-
ed him from doing more than
one wiggle befare it fell down

Tlis arrival was inct by flushed:
(Continued On Page 4)

campus carlier this week, be-
ginning Christmas jobs. Special

1 single cuts for job seckers.

|

» Christmas

1

|

“We want. to share with you some of the. good things .of this Christmas sca-’
as he welcomed the bright eved bundled-up children:

h
Musical chairs. around his shiny black boets. !

a

hristmas

Aavuinsontan ~~

pee. -

The leash breaks tomorrow. and eight-hundred and
fifty or more students head for home and Christmas

vacation.

The remainder of the previ-
ous week's snow gave Christ-
mas decorators an easy job of
it as fraternity houses, sported
wreaths, brightly I.ighted
Christmas trees, and all of the
usual holly, mistletoe, and oth-
cr traditional decorations.

IBogases Conduct

Actually, many students left

faculty cut. dispensaton allows

activities have
weck of wait-

Christmas
dominated this
ing.

PARTY FOR ORPHANS
The annual Barium Springs
Party was given Monday night
by the LFC with the cooperation!
ot the twelve social rraterni-/ EAQHE Country Tour
ties. Santa Claus. in the person| The Southern Colleges
of fooihall captain Dave War-} Your of Europe. conducted
den, was the central attraction for the past five years ‘by
of the evening. Dr. and Mrs. Samuel R.
Wednesday night the Slater Spencer and. Mr. and Mrs.
System treated freshmen and | Grier Martin, will be con-
lneulty 10 a specially prepared| ducted next summer by Dr.
dinner comptete| ancl Mrs. Wade H. Boggs.
with turkey and all the trim} Jr, of Richmond, Va. Dr.

mings. i Boggs is an alumnus of Da-

SPECIAL: VESPERS “stidson and is a professor at

The Male Chorus. Chapel: assembly Training School.
Choir. and = other Davidson

The group of college stu-
dents will sail from Montreal
on June 16 on the “Empress of
Britain” and will return to
Montreal on August 7. Fight
countries in addition to Canada
will be visited by the tour
which -is under. the manage
ment of Brownell Tours. oldest. —
and fargest private tour ¢om
eee pany in the United, Slates.

Tive: Davidson students. were

aong the representatives. of
- steen colleges and universi-
ti:s comprising ‘the 1958 group.
They were Jim Hamillon, .Craig
Ray. Billy Stanton, David Rob. —
inson. and Dabney Stuart.

musical organizations began a

week of Yuletide observance
j} through. music with the annual
Christmas Vesper Sunday
Might.

Residents of the. Cown of Da:
vidson. were welconted guests
for this *pecial servico in -oh-
servance «the “beauty of.
Christmis through ‘music.”

Today’s ] Today's Chapel was can-| was can-
celled by the Religious Life
Committee at the request of
College Chaplain George
Staples and Student Body
President John Kuykendiall.

Students requests or pres-

J sur: played no part in the ; on .
cancellation, as was inad- Further information about
vertantly implied in tast | te tour can be secured from
week's announcement in this | {he College Union or by writ-
nanor. : ing to Dr. Wade H. Bogus. 3400

eee i Brook Road. Richmond 27, Va.

DAVINSONIAN INTERVIEW

“IU’s going to be tougher and
tougher to compete in the
Southern Conference.” Thus
Head Football Coach Bill ‘Dole
summed up Davidson's athletic
future in. a. DAVIDSONTAN  in-
terview this weck:

By way. .of explaining his
statement, Dole pointed out
jthat he will have only eight full
, scholarships to offer incoming
freshmen. Other Conference
{schools will give as many as
thirty grants to new men.

Coach Dole Bemoans
Recruiting Problems

hastened to add that the
ideal condition necessary for
the success of such a program

up, this. is what. will really
count.”

In summing up his position,

did not exist at Davidson, Dole again sthted -that he “be
chiefly because of the lack lieved in athletic — scholar-
of natural rivals who would ships,” and felt. that " a sane.

agree ta compete on a no-
scholarship basis.

well run program had an im
portant contribution to make

to the morale of Davidson Col-- ~

‘Davidson enjoys already
many of the benefits of an ama.
teur program. There is almost
no alumni pressure to ‘win.
‘purely for the sake of winning.

lege.”

French Clu Holds

He is also membership chair- han, .has expressed dn official when the president's office re- : and our football players receive |
man of the Southern Section apology for various incidents ceived a letter from the New! ecen Uu en umors _ Davidson's foothall | problem no special acadomic favors.’ Christmas Function
of the National Association of which occurred during Dr. York office of American Vicv is Turther complicated. he said.“ acrod about the fact that Le Cercle Francais. held
Bible Instructors. Last May,'Monaghan’'s recent visit here. point, Inc. which — am vice By LAURENS WALKER by the high standards demand: soothalt grants are not awardert it 1 Christ ane
Professor Maloney received the’ “Dr. Herbert C. Mayer, to its letterhead. information—! Davidsonian —_ Editor-In-Chief ed by the admissions commit on the basis of need, while all | a Tuosda 1 ohe tthe
Doctor of Theology degree president of American View- is “a. non-profit educational : Dr. William F. Goody koontz told the DAVIDSONIAN (ce. By way of itlustraGion he academic scholarships follow. af rang of Dr. and Airs. G B
from Union Theofogical Semin- point, has ossured members membership corporation, non| jn a special interview this week that he wished to makc, Tee ting at oie sa strict demonstrated need Fes Watts co sponsors Oe the
. . soe ee : . . ar : uy. me b . - ¢ ’ .

ary in Richmond. Virginia. of the college administration (Continued On Page 4) | cicar all circumstances connccted with the tenative can- three high school Teotball plas’ ee ae, Head Coach oiih along with Dr. and

cellation of his plans to hold English 142 as a seminar ers who could “get into David) oo De’ that this was are a WV Goldiere.

P . & arron : . ? : an cyil of the subsidization pre : ,
course. the suspension of a recently initiated seminar son.” IIe continued. “when I gram, Admilting the sceming. Conducted. in French.: the

— ah
Above, the Red Cross passes up the proverbial pound of tiesh for a pint ot blood. some |
two-hundred and fifty students donated to the drive sponsored by the ROAC Department

and the IFC.

(Photo by Rhyne)

- that

, Bailey's

section in English 161, and his discontinuing of the “free

cut system” tried on an éxperimental basis in certain it

of his classes.

Dr. Good¢koontz explained
that. despite persistent student
rumors, no. member of the ad-
ministration -had called upon
him in an effort to force him
to give up his seminar courses.

Widespread opinion had held
that Dean of Students John C.
Bailey was directly involved in
the cancelation of these. semi-
nars. The professor emphasized
Dr. Bailey's discussions
with him were in no way di-
rectly involved in the situation.

He further explained. that Dr.
visits concerned the
status of a student who, faced
with the prospect of a failing
grade, asked the Dean for ad-
viee about remaining in the

-eourse for the remainder of

the semester. In order to as-
certain the student's situation,
the Dean visited Dr. Goody-
koontz and discussed the mat-
ter. ©

When contacted, Dean Bailey
concurred completely, with this
version of the story, and stated

that “he did nol even know. of
the professor's. seminar work."

The course cancellation came|
as a result of advice to-the pro-
fessor from a member of the,
English Department that his!

special. program. -especially in|
161. (Modern Poctry). was not
in compliance with. the estab-;
lished policy of the College.
which limits seminar sessions
to honors students.

Dr. Goodykoontz protested in
his talk with (he DAVIDSON-
TAN that such a rule cannot be
found codified in writing.’
though he now understands i
such a rule does exist.

Dean Bailey . expressed sur-
prise when told of the preva-
lent rumor concerning his in-
volvement in the situation. |

Stating that he had “neither ’
the power nor the inclination |
to tell Professor Goodykoontz
how to teach his courses,” he
expressed a desire to make
clear to the Student Body the

(Continved On Page 4)

|

rng a boy who can make it.
T have to really fight for him
we are going to have any
kind of team at all.”

This week’s interview was
triggered by campus discus-
sion of Davidson’s athtetic
policy rising from the pub-
lication in fast week’s DA-
VIDSONIAN of a letter high-
ly critical of the entire ath-
letic scholarship proaram.
The man who has. the Wild-

eats oul of the athletic dol-
drums points with pride and
substantial statistics to the ree-
ord made by his athIictes on
campus. “Almost to a man,” he
says. “they prove themselves
to be above average students
who make. a genuine contribu-
tion to the life of Davidson. I
am sure.that when they grad-
uate they will make just as im-
portant contributions to their
communities.”

Members of the DAVID-
SONIAN staff asked Dole if,
under ideat conditions, he
would favor an “amateur ath-
letic program.” After a mo-
ment’s hesitation, he  ans-
wered that he would, but he

_ bowever,

program, opened with a read:
ing by Prank Uolt of the Christ- |
as found: in. Lake.

ineqitity of. such a system. he.
concluded that if Da:
virlgéon was to continae, as almas story
menthet of the Southern. Cdn. Georce Meoves: sang the ean-
ferencé and’ meet. without om- ticle “Scsuo Redempteur.’ and
barrsssment, present compe- Warren Wamble read a short

tition, such an inequity would | story. “La Chapelle Blanche.”
have to exist. Picrre Wyss-Chodat then. spoke
“on Christmas customs in

Coach Dolo feols strongly Switzerland.

that the Davidson program
should and will continue
about a: it is. “t know that
there are enough men on the
Boord of Trustees who want
a reasonable athletic program
at Davidson to continue the

For the last part of the pro-
grant a brass ensemble and
chorus, composed of members
.of the club. presented several
Christmas ‘pieces. and all the
methbers joined in the singing

present policy.” ‘of carols.

By way of defending the’ Refreshments consisting of
present subsidization program, punch, popeorn. cakes, and
he stated, speaking scriously sandwiches were served by

and g¢arefully, that “the ulti-( Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Goldiere.
miate suceess of our athtetic New members recently taken
system is not measured in thelinto the French honorary fra-
elation of victory or the defec-:ternity are J. C. Bootle, W. A.
tion of defeat, but‘in the num: Brenner. D. R. Byrd, E. J.
ber of boys who come to David- Jacques, R. M. Lilly, R. L.
son through athletic grants, | Moore, J. C. Ratchford. G. L.
who might not have been able Reeves, J. A. Ricks, D. B Saun-
to have comc otherwise, and re- ders. R. R. Turner, C. G. Smith,
turn to tneir communities pre- F. L. Nye. W. S. Chichester,
pared for a life of fruitful citi. Hermann Laimer, and Pierre
zenship. When it’s all addedj Wyss-Chodat.
