THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1958

Pete Coleman is the new
manager of the Student Store.
Sam Peters aids him as assist-

| ant manager. |

Both Coleman and Peters

_}have had previous experience in

the store. Coleman, a junior and

an economics major, was. assist-
‘}ant manager earlier.

They took over their positions

‘}the week before Thanksgiving

after a joint committee of Mr.

| Shaw Smith, Mr. Robert Currie,
jand Mr. Grier Martin chose

them.

As manager, Coleman will be

Candidates for admission to medical school in the
fall of 1959 are advised to take the Medical College Ad-
mission Test in May, it was announced today by Educa-

, leges.
| These tests, required of appli-|ly from Educational Testing
cants by almost every medical/ Service, 20 Nassau Street,

colHege throughout the country,} Princeton, New Jersey.

will be given twice during the| Completed applications must
current calendar year. Candi-| reach the ETS office by April
ates taking the May test, how-|19 and October 14, respectively
ever, will be able to furnish|for the May 3 and October 28
scores to institutions in early administrations.

fall, when many medical col-

tional. Testing Service, which prepares and administers |
the test for the Association of American Medical Col-

‘By BOB LIVINGSTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer
Professor Henry T. Lilly collects Bibles. He is hign-
ly reticent to confirm this. First, he doubts their interest
to students. Then, expressed as he alone would say 11,
“It’s a hobby just for fun. There’s no scholarship involved

in my collection. I wouldn't

that he does mot understand them all, but he intends to

learn sometime.
Nevertheless he has an in-

teresting collection of Bibles|

and New Testaments in ancient
‘and obscure languages and
modern tongues. They aren't
catalogued neatly, he had them
on his sofa and over the floor.
Nor has he collected them. pur-
posely, but casually through the
years, mostly on his travels

MANY TRANSLATIONS

An imposing -vSlame was
found to,contain parallel trans-
lations of the Bible in Gothic
and Anglo-Saxon, and in the
famous Wycliffe (1389) and Tyn-
dale (1526) translations. Gothic
is a primitive east Germanic
tongue. The Bible was translated
into it in 376 (A.D.). The Anglo-

"Leisure

r completely in charge. He will

| these. duties.

Union.

order stock and supervise per- leges begin the selection of
psonnel. Peters will assist him in! their next entering class.
Candidates may take the
5 ® : ) MCAT on Saturday, May 3, 1958,
The Student Store is a non-| 4. on Tuesday, October 28, 1958,
profit enterprise, but its income’ .+ administrations to be held
covers salaries of its employees | at more: than. $00 Ideal: centers
and the maintenance of the} i, all parts of the country.
The MCAT consists of tests of
The Store is operated entirely/ general scholastic ability, a test
by ‘students and serves to sup-| on understanding of modern so-
ply the needs and demands of|ciety, and an achievement test
the studént body. lin seience. According to ETS,
imo: special preparation other
at jthan a review of science sub-
Classical Club Meets; jects is necessary. All questions
Lare.of the objective type.

want it that way."’ He insists

fessor Lilly into a complemen-

tary collection of _ litigurical
| mass books.
| This is further reflected: in

|a long poem to the Virgin Mary,
| “Il Rosario della Madonna,” by
| Chelfucci. It was. published in
| 1600 by the print-shop of Nicolo
j Polo. The book bound in
| pages of Latin seript and whieh
antedate that time somewhat.
| He picked it up from a
Spanish. pilgrimage’ monastery
in Rome. It was in 1936; and
the institution was in reduced
cireumstances as a result of
pressure from Mussolini.

1s

'
The English Professor exam-

Socrates Is Subject | Copies of the Bulletin of In-
|formation (with application

The Classical Club met for"2/ form bound in), which gives de-
discussion of the life and times| tails of registration and“ ad-
of Socrates on Monday evening, | ministration, ‘as well as sample
January 13, in the Green Room) questions, are available from
of the Union. ‘pre-medical advisers or direct-

National YMCA
Lists Projects

What, Me Worry?

beside the door—got a drink of
water. 5

Somehow he fixed that damn
fountain so it would keep run-
ning. Wasn't five minutes be-

ped when he was through, but
by then, the race was on. One
guy after another; I guess I

a little, guys started going out

Self; one time, had to go down
to the second floer to find
Space.

Well, you talk about a-curve
on grades, only one Old Blood-
shot ever used, Had to; a cou-
ple of 70's and the rest of us
flunked.

I thought I knew that stuff
cold—made a 60 on the exam.”
“What'd Charlie get?”

“62.” 3

“Good old Charlie! Whatever
happened to him anyway?”

College students seem to rejoice as spring comes
and vacation time approaches. Over and over again the
question is asked: “How are you guing to Spend your va-
cation?”

The National Student Coun- direct recreation, teach, counsel |
cils of the YMCA and. YWCA' at day. camps or work in neigh-|
invite students to think Serious-; borhoods to improve home and’!
ly about investing their sum-|community environments. |
mers in a project or work-study! j
seminar. |. Another type of program is|
ithe Washington Student Citizen- |

ined his interest in the Roman
|Catholic faith saying, “It is|
; Christian. It is one branch of |

These projects are yaried: in) ship Seminar. Here students will
their scope to fit the interests|hold full time jobs with gov-|
of many different students. For|ernment agencieés, usually as

hve

books,”

fore « guy got up to get a drink. |

Of course the fountain stop- |

took three drinks—then after|ma_ Chi

the door and on down the hall. | ficers for the second semester.

I guess I had to go twice my-| Sigma Chi elected Tim

The YMCA Gift Fund Drive is Wednesday, Jan. 22
now officially and successfully|{ A. M.—Mathematics 10, 11, 13
over. Through January 15, ae
i hal Genes, cclieaied Pe: — Classes Monday, Wednesday,
Although the drive is official- ‘ : -
ly over, there are still some Thursday, Jan. 23
details to be cleaned up andi] Pp. M.—First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Sat-
some pledges to be paid. urday. )
Pledges were due January 10, ‘
and the Y asks that anyone who ' Friday, Jan. 24
hasn't yet fulfilled his pledge|{ A. M.—Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday,
leave the money at the Y office. Friday. ‘
The total collected so far
this year is about $300 over last Saturday, Jan. 25 z
year’s. Ken Forrester. expressed A. M.—Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday,
the Y’s appreciation for the way Saturday.
cancer eo a ee Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday,
ri i
Ken himself spearheaded the .
drive and was largely responsi- Monday, Jan. 27
ble for its suecess. A concert: Pe "
ok alae Gk Gl te Gaus P: om pico Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Sat
every student and increase the urday.
percentage contributing. Tuesday, Jan. 28
A. M.—Sixth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday,
SAE, Sigma Chi weg
6 P; M.—Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday,
Elect Offices =| 29
Ww y, Jan. 29 ‘
Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sig- . :
fraternities recently|{| ?. M.—Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday,
held elections to determine of- Saturday. :

Teachey, President; Roger
Bates, Vice-President; Graham
McKinnon, Secretary; Lash
Zemp, Treasurer; Joe Verreault,
Corresponding Secretary; and
James Reid, Sergeant-at-Arms.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon elected
President, Ned Hedgpeth; Vice-
President, Bucky Dennis; . Re
corder, Bill Welborn; Cor-
respondent, Don Coffey; Treas-
urer, Prentice Brown; Warden,
Lanny Voight; Chaplain, Bill
Thompson; and Steward, Jack
Millstead.

“Had to drop out. Took Yo-Yo
41 in Summer School; tried to)

egged, back bend,!
rtical twirl) — ruptured him. |
self. Joined the Coast Guard or!
a Cireus—-can't remember.”
“Say man, it’s Ume to hit the}

do a cross legged

t
—the transverse, under- |
arm, around the hip, re-
verse swivel twirl, is, ac-
cording to Dr. George Murd-
stone, applicable only—

Spencer
(Continued From Page 1)

age just as Columbus’ discovery
of the New World heralded a
new age in 1492.

“The launching of the Sput-

Thursday, Jan. 30
A..M.—Second Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday,
Friday.
P. M—ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41
. Classes for first semester close January 21 —
12:50 P. M. ;
Morning Examinations begin at 9:00 A. M.

Afternoon Examinations begin at 2:00 P. M.

VESPERS AND CHAPEL CUTS

= ; Vespers Chapei
Freshmen and Sophomores 4 5
Juniors and Seniors 6 8

Don’t forget these rules:

1. If a student is not seated at the beginning of
the service, he is considered tardy.

2. If he enters after the beginning of the ‘ser-

niks,” he said, “forces us to
look critically at the eduecation-;
al system that has brought us|
to our present -time.”

mon (Vespers), or the second exercise (Chapel), he
is marked absent.

3. A student is considered absent if he moves

CATHOLIC WORKS

An interest in the Roman
Catholic Church has led Pro-

One-fourth of

| ident and the Treasurer have to

[prompted questions on the fu-
| ture scholarship program of the

| Treasurer be affected by this |
|change in administrations?”

| A. “Perhaps I could ‘best: ans-
wer by saying this. My predeces-
|sor served through three ad-
| ministrations.” |
Q. Will you resign as a mat-
ter of course?

A. I do not think that I will
offer my resignation unless I
feel that it is desired. The Pres-

work closely together.

The very nature of Mr. Mar-
tin's position with the College

| school.

| ° NEW SCHOLARSHIPS

@. Do you have anything
definite on scholarships to re-
place the void left by the loss of
the Baker grants?

A. There is not much as far
as new sources are concerned,
but we will have some sort of
program worked out. We will
take care of those who already
have Bakers. We have planned

1959-1960 school year.

Was a great deal of sentiment

gram at Davidson even though
its time had expired. He quoted
one of thest nien as saying,
“There is not another institu-
tion in the South comparable
| to Davidson.

PREFERENTIAL BIDDING

When asked his opinion on
proposed Preferential, Bidding,
he said: “I've been advocating it

a comparable program for the]
Mr. Martin added that there}

among the Trustees of the Baker|
Foundation to continue the pro-|

small welfare agencies, they may | cational concerns.

acon,
Fanciful Facts FOR
by Robert C. Preble, President “rane”

ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA

Not Like Be-Bop

a al Choir”

writings Page 0a In Ancient Greece a “musical” |

Franklin's
from help in - education ranged from reading
laration and to and writing to mathematics and

treatises on the Northern Lights literature, including singing of
and How to Cure Smoky Chim- lyric poetry,
neys. {

From

The mechanics of pollination
in flowers is so complex that
some flowers can't live except in

Names of constellations and
fanciful res seen in them

date back to the Romans,

ternities had over 45% donat-|
ing. This is the fifth straight!
semester that ATO has won the!
blood drive.

| than quantity.

Saxon translation dates: from >the Christian Church: Yes, yi invert for those. students who | typists or stenographers. They from his seat before the end of the service.
976. think that is why I am inter-| are interested in labor-manage-|'will attend sessions of Congress ge. ATION IN NEW AGE

Professor Lilly has editions of | ested in it.” ment. relations there is an op-|and watch the government at AT0’s Again Win | . SOUCAT! : If the student exceeds the above number of
the Bible in eleven separate! Perhaps that is also why he|Pertunity to work in industry | work in various other ways ; He stated that’ education in cuts, in either Vespers or Chapel he will be placed
languages. Included are ‘Such! has his hobby a ae eee eee | Any’ students interested in Fall Blocd Drive the new age must be based on|} on probation with regard to the exercise over-cut
difficult and remote’ tongues as LEDS ce edt lee In this particular project, stu-/ spending their summers with | four principles: mu : .
Icelandic, Erse, and Sanskrit. : dents will hold factory: jobs with| one of these programs shou'd|' ATO won the Fail Blood} 1. ‘A new and improved sta-| An additional cut in either Vespers or Chapel
-He has the scriptures in. the Martin regular hours . and salaries.) contact the “YMCA office ‘n| Drive with 66% of their mem-|ius. for the teacher. || Will place a’ student on probation with regand to
Se ee ae aeae | Through seminars they will dis-| the College Union for further! bership donating, Woody) if Efficient use of raw ma-/f 00th these exercises and will restrict him to the

ark, G&G . 4 R i * . m i s f : airme q sins e & se a ° : js

(printed ‘at Utrecht). ee ee ee agen tgp pensions the sree : tite Sh gered ‘i terial, with outstanding stu-| campus for period of 30 days. Any further ab-

Romantic tongues are repre: Q. “Do you have several can- pasicanes ot the Christian, teiéts Al of these projects of th’ | name in second: falling short | dents sought out and urged to-| sences from either Chapel or Vespers, ‘whether or

_ Seated: ia: 9 French Figs ‘Penta, didates in mind?” to-economic life a Y's are. designed t | of ATO by on‘y one pint. | ward higher education as well not it is above the normal limit allowed, will make

ment and the very important i. Tt ak Sas oe re _| provide a enna — insigh" | pi Kanna Alpha. Phi Gamma @ Supplied anaes scholarships. the student subject to dismisal.
Italian translation by Giovanni a: good, many: men I would not Again, there are opportunities! into contemporary social prob-) pelta, and Phi Delta Theta were 3: Education according to
Diodati of Lucca, object te workine PS gga a in communjty service. There is| tems, opportunities to explore | next in the competition, having ability, giving “every child, re-

Classical interest. is reflected PR ig whoss rt? program designed. for work) and deepen understanding of | over fifty percent of their mem- gardless of money, social stand-
in his Greek and Latin edi- weblink’ scauts eke.” and study of the social eff ‘ets | the Christian faith, service to! bership giving blood: Nine of ing or. pedigree the opportuni-
tions. | i. ee a ae _jof urbanization., Students will | others in human need, and althe twelve _ participating fra-| ty to travel as far and as fast

. JOD 4S serve as staff members with/ testing of vocational and avo-

down the educational road as
his talents will carry him.”
4. Emphasis on quality rather

1318 W. Morehead

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

«PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Charlotte, N. C.

IN SALISBURY

836 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous

the presence of specific insects,
and vice versa.

Greeks, and even Babylonians—

for a good while. I'm strongly
in favor of it.” He added that
he would suggest one idea on
the subject. He thinks that some
impartial body, other than the
|IFC should take care of the
“matching up” process.

SALE CONTINUES

T.

— a

more than 3,000 years. ms

JOIN YOUR FRIENDS

— =

MOORESVILLE, N. C.

FOR FINE FOODS

SATURDAY, JANUARY 18

Basketball—Davidson vs Citadel—Here
4:00—Wrestling—Davidson vs VMI—Here
8:00-—Movie—“Moby Dick”—Union Ballroom

SUNDAY, JANUARY 19
7:30—Vespers—The Reverend John Bright
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24

8:00—-Movie—‘Love Me or Leave Me” — Union

Ballroom

*NOTE: To Whom It May Concern: The Spring Flick
Team will not hold its scheduled meetings due to exams.

Don't Sweat It!

Relax and Enjoy a
Game of Pool during

