June 20, 1958

OME

(Lditor's Notc: By this tim, you havc
already reccived a welcome to summor school
by’ the collcge officials, your instructor,
and your many fricnds, Sincc this is the
first cdition of our summer newspaper, may
we extend the following hand of fricndsnip--
perhaps belatcd, but nevertheless cqually
sinccre,)

As the Davidson summr scssion rolls
into action for anothcr warm tuclvc uccks,
we would like to cxtcnd a word of welcomc to
all conecrned -< Pre-freshmcn through "grad-
‘uate students,"

Vie hope that this little bit of journa-
lism will serve in a small way to hclp you
kcep up with campus news and activitics
while you study, and perhaps to add a laugh
occasionally on the ridc, Any surgestions,
news, or contributions in fencrcl will be met
with sinccre appreciation and sichs of relicf,

A special word of greeting is in order
to the large group of charming mcmbcrs of
the legendary oppositc sex who will pracc
our campus for a whilc, Thisis almost
cnough to bring a Davidsonitc back to school
without the usual gripcs about assignments,
tho weather, infirmary antihistaminc priccs,
and Union coffce — or any other coffce that
comcs along. Welcome, Ladics, to the re-
nowned ranks of the Davidson gcntleman!!

- James loore

ADVICE

by Ed Slanders

‘Dear Nr. Slanders:

I am one of a few co-eds at a college
summer school where tho odds arc 12 to 1.
When I decidcd to go thcrc, I thought it
would be. loads of fun .and that I would have
lots of dates, but as yct I have not had a
date. Can you help me?

LONESOME

Dear Lonesome:

pre- F

| Having been here since June 12, I have
found thot my decision to come was a good

jone, The classcs aro small, the hours are
not bad, the foculty is fricndly, and thc

i staudcnt body is small and congcnicl.

4

Therc: are eleven students in my Math 11
class — two of whom are not actually in
collcgc, ith such a small group, rcletions
between students ard professor arc more

informal than in larger classes. This infor-
mality creates a greater desire to study.

My class is at «ight o'clock with a two-
hour break -bctween first and second periods.
All tne first period's homework may be done
beforc, the second class period, which allows
an amplc amount of lcisure time in the aftcr-
noon or Gvening ard leaves a little life in
the studcnt,

The faculty is friendly and is well
qualified.

Even tnough I have not.méet many of thc
boys outsidu.of my math group, thcy seem. to
be congcnial with each other. Their numbcr
is small cnougn Lo get. to know most of them
before the first session cnds.

I have no gripes — only pnraises~—about
Davidson College, It is surely a grand
privilcgc to go to school here,

- Robert Davidson

Advice (continued )

How can a person stop
A SOT

Dear Mr, Slanders:
drinking too much?

Dear Sot: Don't get thirsty,

(For a personal reply to your personal prob-

lems, write ibd Slanders, Box 1368, Davidson,

MOVIE: "Bad Day at Black Rock" Spencer
Tracy and Robert: Ryan

Odds 12 to 1? No date? fo heme! Union Patio: Friday, June 20, 8:30 p.m
