Current Events

Quiz Results

(See Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

Dp

‘Dp

In Unlimited Cut Policy

The DAVIDSONIAN interviewed six Davidson professors for opinions on an un-
limited cut system, which was favored im a student poll earlier this month.

PUCKETT

Dr. Puckett stated: “I worked
under a system of unlimited
cuts at Princeton. I did not find
it satisfactory ... . Under the
present system,” he continued,
“upperclassmen who have their
required quality points can cut

By LOUIS BURTON
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Th

SS A NS LY

oard Of Visitors
Hears College Pr
|

CO

ee

ne ee -

to guess that the result would

placed on the other profes-
sors contacted for statements, mean more students washing
feels in all fairness unable to out.”

publish the whole of Dr. “I have taught under four

Abernethy’s' statement, a8 systems: no cuts, the present
well-done as it is. system, cuts proportional to

GOODYKOONTZ grades, and unlimited cuts. In
Dr. Goodykoontz advocated my experience the most satis-

one quarter of their classes. unlimited cuts for everyone. factory has been the unlimited
Why do they want a more liber. “The effect that unlimited cuts system. If impused at Davidson,
al cut system than this?” ‘would have is .speculative. It the system would be a discl-
THOMPSON would involve one of two pos- pline to both students and
Dr. Thompson was of the sibilities. If standards were not faculty, and 1 believe that for
opinion: “The “B" student relaxed, and I don’t think that those who could adapt them-
should have more freedom in they should be, there would be selves to it, the results would
cuts.” He explained that the,a casualty list, perhaps a fairly pe beneficial.”
student serious enough to get large one for the first semester
a “B” average should have the or two that it was tried. But I SATTERFIELD
privilege to decide whether he think that after that the schoo! Dr. Satterfield ventured to
must ‘attend a ‘class or cut, would be much better off: we S2Y, “If Davidson's policy will
“Some would get hurt at first Would have more maturity and be to admit only students who
_. and I would make the fresh- responsibility among our stu- are capable of doing good work,

For Monday Concert

The internationally famous Pamplona Choir from
Spain, conducted by Luis Morondo, will appear on the

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1959

Aauisnntan

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

ne One Oren ~~

By RAN SHAFFNER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

‘Cats Close
1-8 Season

(See Page Three)

NUMBER TEN

ogress Reports

Watlington Enumerates
Southern Opportunities

Fifty distinguished representatives from. nine states gathered on-campus this

morning for the fourth, annual meeting of the Board of Visitors. Participating in dis-
cussions directed by Chairman James J. Harris of Charlotte, the members of the
board presented reports concerning public reaction to the college as seen by each

4/in his business or community life.
The group heard a report on college, the board serves as

Davidson's curriculum from interpreters of ‘the college to
Dean of Faculty, Frontis W. specific groups and attempts
Johnston. President D. Grier to aid the accomplishment of

her long-term objectives as
a Christian liberal arts col-
lege.

During chapel this morning
twelve new members of the
board were presented to the!
student body: Dr. William C.
Archie, '29, Dean of the College

‘ Martin, in outlining the pro-
; |gram. by which Davidson. is at-
tempting to achieve the stan-
dards of excellence “set forth
by the 1958 Rockefeller report
on “The Pursuit of Excellence.”
quoted the value of David-
son's physical plant at $10.000.-

000, and the present endow- of Arts and Sciences at Emory
ment at $9,437,191. ‘University; Mr. Marlee Branch,
; . . ‘27, President of The Southern
However, President Martin ‘
cautioned that “such a_ condi- Company; Mr. W. B. Dunlap,

'22, President. of Rock Hill Na-

. 0 t . ai ™ rT .
tion cannot be maintained with and Mr. B. Cal-

number one economic oppor-
tunity.”
“For years,” Watlington be-

“gan, “the bright young men of

‘(Continued on page four)

—

Lindsay Presents
Editions To Library

Rev. Samuel M. Lindsay,
D.D., a close friend of Dr. John
R. Cunningham, president

emeritus, has donated a collec-
tion of six first editions to the
Davidson Library. Dr. Lindsay,
who is minister to the Royal

Davidson College Artist Series Monday, November 23,
at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium.

out. a continuing and ever tional. Bank;

. ’ . | Poinciana Chapel, Fiagler Me-
stronger effort.” houn Hipp, ‘43. Investment P 8

Vice President and Director of/™ovial, in Palm Beach, Florida,

man prove himself (before al-
lowing unlimited cuts).”

ABERNETHY

Editor’s note: Or. Aber-
nethy was contacted for a
statement to complete. this
article. He had previously
prepared a statement of some
five hundred words and was
unable to condense it, nor
would he allow the DAVID-
SONIAN to condense ft.

The DAVIDSONIAN, there-
fore, realizing the  limita-
tions, both in words end time,

College Culture Class: |
A Taste Of Everything

“Nowhere else does the Davidson student get the opportunity to integrate so
much material . . .” This is Professor Brad Thompson’s comment on the value of
interesting addition to Davidson’s curriculum in a long

what is certainly the most
time.

The course is “America in
the Twentieth Century,” and
the subject is every bit as broad
as the title implies: It is actual-
ly twelve courses combined in-
to one, and represents the very
Jast choice of one who is addict-
ed to that popular method of
study known as “cramming.”

Instituted last year as a
course open only to exchange
students, the course was this
‘year opened to American stu-
dents who gain the consent of
the staff. The general purpose.
according to Professor Thomp-
son, is to present a cros; sec-
_ tion of contemporary American
culture.

The staff desires to have an

Professor Minter outlines the structure of the two-party system in a recent meeting of the

culture class.

dents and we would have lost then there could be an unlimit-
those who were not here to- get @d cut policy for everyone. Stu-
an education.” dents that can maintain a “B”

“The second possibility: If average should be allowed to
the standards were relaxed .to0 £9 to class when they please;
avoid ,a list of casualties, the however, they should be re-
entire school would suffer, in- Quired to lake réviews, do term
cluding the students.” papers, or special projects re-

quired by the professor.”
McCUTCHAN

“LT would personally welcome “This puts responsibility up-
an unlimited cut system,” sta- on the student. 1 remember,
ted Dr. McCutchan, “at such a however, that there were class-
time that the students and es in college that I felt were
faculty were ready for it. If a complete waste of time and
the unlimited cut system were I could have done just as well
instituted now, I would hazard be merely reading the book.”

The program will include a Aircs, and Algiers.

group of songs by four great
Spanish composers.

Carl = Orff's

Carmina”,

composer
“Catulli

native Spanisli songs.

This: group of 16, which is
currently making its second
tour of the United States an
Canada, ig hailed as the “great-
est chorus of its size in the
world.” Critics of two conti-
nents have described {t in such
terms as “absolute perfection,”
“a real orchestra, made of

By BILL MOSS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

equal number of foreign and
American students. This year
there are six Americans taking
the course with all eight of the
foreign students. One of the
only courses of instruction of-
fered anywhere that can boast
of a faculty to student ratio of
one to one, “America in the
Twentieth Century” is staffed
by thirteen teaching professors
and Professor Thompson, who
coordinates the program. Each
of the professors teaches the
phase of the material in which
he specializes.

Besides two class periods of
an hour and a half each per
week, field trips are planned to
various places to observe the
American culture at work. One

¢

-_

voices,” and “second to nonc.”

The choir is described as be-
ing so flexible .that it can
“achieve instrumental effects
such as echos, bells,
cussion.” At times, the adapta:
ble voices give the impression
of a great organ, rather than a
choir. ,

Proof of the choir’s suecess
are the awards which it has
won. Perhaps the most out-
standing award was the Grand
Prize of Honor won in 1950 at
the International Contest for
music in Lille, France, a com-
petition which involved 186

of the field trips has already
been completed. Under Profes-
sor Thompson's direction, the

class visited the ,Southern[choruses from 17 different
Screw Company to see a factory] countries. Other. awards have
that, begun by an immigrant in{been won in Paris, Buenos

1946, has grown into a multi-
million dollar business. Later
(rips are planned to view in-

dustries, agricultural, experi- ROTC Has Annual
mental stations, and perhaps
Open Turkey Shoo!

rounding area.

The first subject, taught by| The ROTC Department
Professor Reid, is‘ “Resourees}and Scabbard. and Blade
and Regions of the United, Will jointly sponsor their
States.” Professor Minter’s}annual Turkey Shoot next
classes concerning the United . Tuesday, November 24.. The
States’ government and consti. Shoot will be held in the in-
tution is entitled “Political In-|door firing range of.—the

‘ROTC Department in. the
‘basement of Belk Dorm.

The Turkey Shoot is being
given for the faculty, admini-
stration and any one else who
is. or has Ween. connected of-
ficially with tho college, and
their families.

(Cpntinued on page four)

The shoot will be conducted
from four to six o'clock in the
wm aficrnoon. The contestants will
use 22 caliber rifles. The
prizes, all of which have been
donated by Davidson  mer-
chants, include turkeys, nylon
hose, free pool games, and
many other items. .

There will! be refreshments,
and entertainment, and special
movies for the children. There
is no admission charge. Last
year 85 people took part in the
shoot and there were about 75
children present.

Always a feature of this
shoot is.a mystery bird. The
mystery bird is a target in the
shape of a turkey. The exact
bull’s-eye is never marked on
jthe front. “In this manner,”
| Said Cuptain Mitchell. “anyone
ro hit the mark.”

i Captain Mitchell continued,
“You don't have to be a marks-
man to win a prize. Practically

+

excerpts dents are admitted free. Non-
from the contemporary German studénts may obtain tickets for
opera $2 cach {rom The Artist Scrics,
works of Davidson College, Davidson, N.
Bartok and Zoltan Kodaly,:and C.

:

or per-

The Board of Visitors was
organized by the Trustees of
Davidson in 1956 as an ad-
visory council to the college
administration. In addition to
submitting recommendations
for the betterment of the

Forum Discusses Drinking,
Atter-Dance Party Pledge

Liberty Life. Insurance Com.)
pany. ,
Mr. J. Ti, McConnell, '27,!
Executive Vice President of
Reynolds Metals Company: Mr. |
Jean. Mauze, '23, Vice President |

No seats are reserved. Stu--:

Securities: Mr. Richard B. Port,
‘47, Advertising Manager of -P.
Mi. Hanes Knitting Company;

Son Bankers.

and Mr. Robert M. Vance, ‘37, |
President of M. S. Bailey &|

has previously donated first
editions of works by Sir Walter
Scott and Robert Burns,

The books donated this week
included first editions of D. H.
Lawrence's The Lost Girl and

of U. S. Trust Company; Mr.| Twilight in ttaly and Robert
:Henty T. Mills, '06, Investment | Lewis

Stevenson's The Ebb
Tide, A Footnote to History,
Istand Nights’ Entertainment,
and St. Ives.

Other volumes which were
donated, bul were not first edi-
tions, were Treasure (Island, by

Mr. C. W. McCrary, Presi- {Robert Louis Stevenson, The

4. Complete Poems of Robert

The Student Council's forum on the drinking prob-, ae Oe te Hosiery iBurns, John Stuart Mill's On
lem, after a three day delay, finally jelled last night in) 500” indie na; Mr. C. P. \Representative Government,
the Union Ballroom with 4 faculty members, 10 Pe tne| Street of McDevitt and Street; [Sir Walter Scott's Marmion

ists, and approximately 35 students present. It was the
first of a series of such proposed forums that will con-
cern the vital issues on the Davidson campus..

President Dee Green opened some of the things behind this
the forum with the purpose of issue of drinking and after
the meeting: “We are here to dance parties. We hope to get
try to become acquainted with some proposals from the facul-

—_—_—— Ii and student body along this
a line... 2”

College Will Send :

Two On Texas Trip

The ensuing discussion led
fo the after dance parties and
centered around two things,
the incongruity of the pledges
John Stone and Mr. C.| that must be signed concern-
Shaw Smith will attend the ing the conduct at these par-
Student Conference on Na-| ties, and the actual conduct
tional Affairs at Texas A.| at such parties.
and M. University from De-| the question was asked
cember 9-12. whether or not the conduct was
After competition between!always connected with drink-
several Davidson students se-jing. Someone else brought out
lected by the faeulty,, Johnjthe fact that after almost every
Stone was chosen as Davidson’s
delegate to the conference. Mr.
Smith will serve as co-chairmanithis was refuted by another
of one of. the Round Table dis-;person who stated that there
cussion groups. iwere always many morc Ietters
This will. be the fifth such{of compliment than complaint.’
conference. Its theme is “The| It was suggested that the col-
United States:. Problems of |lege. be asked’to take a definite
World Leadership.” The five'stand on these partics as op-
student discussions will con- posed to their “hazy” stand at
eern “Coping with Crisis: Areas !the present.
in the Cold War," “Pacing The A solution receiving much
Challenges of the Space Age.”: approval wos given by Bob

“Expanding our Eeonomy.in an Avinger: “Let the college
Unstable World.” “Maintaining gay, ‘We don’t approve of
Effective Alliances within the; drinking,’ and then let the !
U.N. Framework.” and “Educa- tnterfraternity Counci! have |

ting for World Leadership.”

The purpose of the confer: |
ence is “to provide an appre-
ciation of. the complexities of
the forcign policy of the U.S..
to an increasingly large rep-

authority over these parties.”
Mixed in with the after dance
party discussion was clabora-'
tion on the drinking and “un-|
der the influerice’’ ‘rule here,
; at Davidson. Green brought out!
resentation of colloge students|that he did not feel that many
of the South and Southwest.” [of the sludents would vote to
Keynote speakers for wie |Fepeal this rule.
conference will be Ceylon’s am: But someone ‘said, “Because
bassador. to the United States; | of this rule, many peoplé be-"
the Hon. R. S. S. Gunewardene; |]jove that Davidson students do
the commander of Redstone not drink. Should, we continue
Arsenal, Alabama. Gen. J. B./to fool them or reveal to them

Medaris; and Dr. HN. R. Bowen,| the truth?”

‘international

all you have to do is be there.” questions.”

president of Grinnell College in
Grinnell, Iowa.

Mr. Smith commented. “Many;
of us feel that we are not do-)
ing nearly enough concerning |
affairs on the|
campus. We are attending this,
conference by invitation, pre-|
paring for the Great Issues Se-
ties next spring.”

“In connection with this,” he
continued, “We need to develop
the foreign students and ex-
plore ideas on international |

The Slater Food Service
will hold its annual Thanks- |
giving Dinner next Tuesday

night in Chambers Dining
Hall. The meal will be held
at 6 p.m.

Mr. M. G. Stephanos, man-
ager of the Colfege Union
Food Service, announced that
special faculty and admini-
stration guests wilt be pres-
ent. Students are requested
to wear coats and ties.

’

dance weekend there were com-| dents in the chapel,
plaints about these parties, but!

I and Mr. W. H. Stuart of Flori-
da.

[- Following the presentation of

;new members, Mr. John F. Wat-

jehovia Bank and Trust Com-
|pany, spoke on “Opportunities
jin the South” in which he rated
the South today as “the nation’s

lington, Jr.. President of Wa-

printed in. 1815.

Also The Lay of the Last
‘Minstrel, a. biography of Ro-
| bert Burns by Dr. John Nichols,
jand an edition of Sir Walter
‘Scott’s Lady of the Lake, dated
baavek A facsimile of the fitst
édition of The Bay Psalm Book
twas also given.

Cloistered Sabbaths

See Ascent Of “Sin”

Place: Davidson College
Time: A Sunday in 1859

Sunriso: Prayers for all stu-
followed

by breakfast.
One Hour After Breakfast:

Sabbath School], which time is
spent reading the Bible. This
continues until 11:00.

11:00: Sermon by one of the
faculty ntembers.

; Dinner

3:00: All students go to chapel
Sor. Bible lesson recitations.
Sunday éveriing: Scrmon by one
one of -the faculty membcrs.

Place: Dayidson College

|Time: A Sunday in 1959

Sunrise: The few students who
chose to remain on campus
for- the weekend and those
who went to Converse. Char-
lotte. or Salem. just for the
evening are probably ‘safely
abed. by. this time (excluding,
of course, dance weekends).
One Hour After Breakfast:
There is no such term as Sun-
day. Morning Breakfast in the
modern Davidson vernacular;
so.one hour after breakfast is
impossible,

11:00: Sermon at the Davidson
Presbyterian Church for the
faculty, townies, and a -hand-
ful of YMCA workers.
Dinner: By 12:30 aetivity begins
to pick up. The effects of the
previous evening have worn
off, and the students slowly
drag themselves“ out of bed,
realizing six days of hard work
separates them from another
delicious Saturday night.

3:00: Sleep, study, flickerball,
ete.

Sunday evening: The 7:15 traf-
fic jam finds half of the stu-
dents rushing back from week-
ends in an effort to reach ves-

pers by 7:30. After vespers,
faculty visiting by a very
small percentage of the Stu-
dent Body.

Sundays ai Daviason College
have witnessed a change in the
past one hundred years. The
rules and regulations concern-
ing religion have changed cor-
respondingly.

In 1859 the following para-
graphs appeared in the David-
son College Cataloguc:

1. The denial of the being of
a God. or the inspiration and
divine._guthoritv.. of ‘the Holy
Scriptures or an ‘endeavor to
propagate principles subversive
ofthe Christian Religion, by a
Student, shall subject him to
cxpulsian from College.

2. ‘No Student shcll violate
the*Sabbath Day by engaging in
worldly employments or recrea-
tions.

3: The. President ot..College,
with’ the aid of the olher mem-
‘bers Of the Faculty, shall main-
tain Public Worship in the
Chapel on the Lord’s Day, and
daily morning and .evening:
prayers: which services the
Students shall attend in a
reverent and becoming man-
ner,

4. No Student shall leave the
College grounds to visit his
home, or any other place what-
ever, or to go beyond the limits
of an ordinary walk for reerea-
tion, without obtaining express
permission from the Faculty.

In 1959 ther is only one reg-
ulation comparable to those
above:

1, On the Sabbath day there
shall be no games or cunuuct
of any sort inconsistent with
the proper keeping of the Sab-
bath.
