a aD

’ \vith some good linemen and “just one back.”

fea previous encounter in which the wily thin man had

FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1959 THE DAVIDSONIAN

eS

) High-Riding Cat Cindermen

<sHost High Point Tomorrow

Fine Record Gives Davidson Odds; Whittle |
Happy, Oniy One Loss; Furman Wednesday

Football. coaches don’t just work from September ; By BILL GODWIN
1 to the end of December. One of the crucial factors in Tomorrow afternoon Davidson’s winning trackmen meet High Point on Richardson Field. They travel

determining the success of a season is the period from|to Greenville on Wednesday to face the Purple Paladins of Furman.

Christmas to summertime when high school football} coach whittle this week

players begin to take their College Boards, go before| stressed Davidson’s advantages K Si Cc
appa Sigs Cop,

Volleyball Title

admissions committees, and decide which institution isjover High Point. “They're a
The Kappa Sigs spotted the Betas an early loss’

. . to track. W & L has
going to give them the best deal. trendy beaten them badly thi
“The problem with the backs is that they’ve either alrendy beaten them badly this
but came back to edge them with an 11-1 record in
the I-F volleyball tournament. The Betas, with a 10-2

year, and we beat the Gen-
record, were followed by the KA’s and ATO’s in third

SIDELINES
ON oPORTS

By B. MILLNER

JUST ONE BACK...

Coach Dole sat on the edge of a bench in the
coaches’ locker room and looked down at an empty Coca-
Cola cup. Finally he turned and said, “I'll tell you what
you can say—we were looking for backs. We came up

ne ow

much plessed” with Mel Arm-
strong’s showing. The sprint-
er took the 100 yd. dash in
9.9 seconds and tied for the
220 in 22.2. The 220 sprint
tied a Wake Forest record,
but was not counted because

been turned down by the admissions committee, or put] erals.”
of a strong tail-wind.

on a waiting list and in the meanwhile accepted a schol- But there is another factor.
arship somewhere else, or have been admitted and still) the wildcats have run up an
went somewhere else.” Dole also commented that he|impressive early-season total of
had Jost some six or eight prospects to Morehead schol-|three wins and only one loss.

arships. “You just don’t turn down one of those things,”| —pavidson lost its opener to

Henry Pharr pole-vaulted 12
feet to tie a Davidson record.
The jump was. nullified, how-
ever, according to Coach Whit-
tle, because of “a deficiency in

PAGE THREE

|

‘i

Big Dave Warden heaves the shot in the Washington and
Lee meet which Davidson won handily. Warden Is favored
to repeat in his win in this event tomorrow. (Photo by Blake.)

he grinned. The Citadel here on March measuring.” place.
Dole said that if entrance standards continue to in-| 21. compiling 44.5 points to In the broad jump Davidson's In the first round ot softbalt current regulations governing |
crease he would have to enlarge his recruiting area.| Citsdel’s 88.5. Miler Angus In the broad jump | action on Wednesday, the IF sports,
, McBryde collected almost a Hugh Murray and Mike Laugh- . Wilson also clarified an eligi
“There are not enough good boys in this area who can] go, of the ‘Cats total lin bettered 21 feet. Murray’s|SAE’s whipped the Inde. ; _ an eek
th trance requirements.” ourth © ° 5 : 21 feet four inches,|Pendents: the ATO's defeated bility ruling: “No individual
pass the entrance req . score with 10 points. jump was eet four inches.| i pj Kapps 245; the Phi who participated in’ a varsity

“The next two weeks will tell whether we'll be able
to field a freshman football team or not.”
Dole has ten available scholarships. He has eight
of them filled—but just one back.
THE CITADEL AT FAULT

But, playing here the next

week, Coach Whittle’s runners
romped over Washington and
Lee, 74 to 57. McBryde was
high scorer for botti teams, tak-

Coach Whittle also praised
the work of Ed Kizer, who cop-
ped the 440.

Looking to next Wednes-
day, Whittle expected a neck-

ing first place. in the mile and
the 880 and finishing third in
the javelin throw, for 11 points.

At Winston-Salem last Satur-
day, the Wildcats won a tri-
angular ‘meet from Wake Forest
and East Carolina. The latter
two fought it out for second
place while Davidson racked up
88.5 points.

and-neck battle with Furman
in Greenville. “They won last
year,” he said.. “But they
had to take the relay to beat

us, 66.5 to 63.5,”

It was the climactic play. The Citadel’s number one
tennis player, Jack Sterling, had Semi Min at match
point in the third set at 5-4. He was about to avenge

out-smarted him for a three-set win. Sterling served
twice and double faulted, bringing the score back to
deuce. He won the next point, however, and again had
Mintz on the ropes. He served two more faults.

Sterling tightened up and won the point at deuce
and then popped two more serves into the net. Un-
daunted, he took the deuce point to give himself still
another advantage situation—and double-faulted again.

Colan Mintz was getting bored with the whole thing.
The fourth time Sterling double-faulted Semi grabbed
the next two points, won the game and went on to take
the set 11-9, and the match. Perseverance pays off.

WILDCAT GREAT MAKES GOOD

Whit Cobb, ’50, perhaps the finest all-around athlete
Davidson has produced in the last decade, was recently
in the headlines as a possible successor to Hal Bradley
as head basketball coach at Duke.

The ‘Cats, Whittle said, are
stronger in this event this year.
Ed Kizer, Chester Alexander,
Roger Beebe and Brownie
Thurman make up the relay
Coach Whittle was “very foursome.

By JIM HAMILTON
The Davidson College Tennis Team, riding a five m

This

Delts edged the Betas 4-1; the
Phi Gams walloped the SPE's
18-10; and. the KA's beat the
Sigma Nus 18-11.

The L-F tennis tournament is
scheduled to begin next Wed-
nesday with entrics to be
turned in by four p.m. Tuesday
at. Coach Whittle’s office. Each
fraternity is to enter one sin-
gles and one doubles team.

L.M.A.C. HANDBOOK
1M.A.C. president Ralph Wil-
son has announced the publica-
tion of an I.M.A.C. information
handbook to be near at hand.
handbook will contain

Netters Tangle With |
Hot Atlantic Coast Foes

atch victory tide, moved in-|

Cobb, the Blue Devil freshman coach, brought along | to the brunt of their schedule this week as they stroked two rugged Atlantic Coast

this year’s highly talented bunch of sophomores who

are already potentially the best Duke basketball team| Yesterday the netters were McKee, however, felt his
in years. at Durham for a match that team had not hit their stride
promised to be a tightly con- as of yet. “We improved,

Cobb also is head coach of the highly successful
Duke tennis squad that Davidson faced yesterday. The
general consensus is, however, that he will be passed
up for a more experienced basketball man with some

though,” he said, pointing to
the last Citadel win. “In the
first match with them we
split the singles, but last Sat-

tested one. Duke won another

close match 5-4 last year.
Coach Dick McKee de-

scribed Duke “as one of the

national reputation. best teams in the A.C.C.  urday we took all six of
While at Davidson Cobb served as student. body though." the same league, them.

The coach singled out Finley

president and was a basketball, track, and tennis star.
In 1950 Cobb was chosen Southern Conference Ath-

The Tarheels

of Corolina &

: promised to be a tougher foe.
; Having lost only two players
from last year's A.C.C. champ-
tionship team, the Tarheels are
stil] the cream of. the crop in
their league. McKee, however,

lete of the year. He has been succeeded in the honor by
such athletes as Dick Groat and Frank Selvy.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE

~“

Bon
af
—
:

A

_ believed his boys should make
1a good showing.
i The ‘Cats moved closer to
| mid-season form last week with .
fimpressive Wins over M.LT. and @
Citadel. A strong. MIT. team «.. , ,
succumbed 6-3 to the hustling p> eam . en
|'Cats and Citadel, whom the John Poindexter
McKee’s No. 2 Man

Yourself ? (

Charleston, was dropped 8-1.
we ish

Do You Think for
ves[ Jol] 8F

we
Cd

veo{_]o[_] baba
o FS

9. Do you believe your choice

is his dog’’?
of a filter cigarette ves Cl no[ |
should be based on hearsay?

If you're the kind of person who thinks for

ourself, then choosing a cigarette will be
based on a careful study of the facts—not

on quick decisions.

Men and women who think for them-
selves usually smoke VICEROY. Their good
judgment tells them there's only one ciga-
rette with a thinking man’s filter and a

smoking man’s taste. And that cigarette Is
VICEROY. _

*If you've answered “NO” to eight out of
the nine questions above, you really think
Sor yourself! ©1050, Brows & Willemsen Tetetro Com.

1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Open Nifely 5-12 P. M.

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414
After 2 P. M.

TAKE

1. Does it bother you to admit that you

haven't read a very popular book? scheduled to come t

2. Do you think there are-degrees of

cheating in a game or examination?

. there certain foods you feel
8 Ae you'd dislike-without having

ever tried them? new sport in the presence

who were experts?

4. Would you be seriously concerned to vas
readin your horoscopethat catastrophe
would befall you tomorrow?

8. Have you found it to be

,

Wd ow
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Know:

5. Do you often fall short of cash several
days before your pay or allowance is
oug

6. When you're driving, do you like
to be first getting away from a
atop light about to change?

7. Would you be reluctant to learn a

foes, Duke and North Carolina on Thursday and Friday.

Lee, Semi Mintz, and Dick Ho-
del for special praise.

“Lee has done a very good
job; he hasn't Jost. yet. And of
course Semi has done very
well.” Mintz's only loss was a
three-setler to conference
chemp Jim Tarr in the season's
opener against George Wash-
ington.

“And then there’s Dick Ho-
del—the flower of the tennis
world,” he said in typical Mc-
Kee lingo. “He's conference
champ, determined, and as
dependable as any player I’ve
had in a fong time. ! can’t
remember the last time he
lost.”

McKee also has a group of
freshmen hopefuls on the
courts. The Wildkittens, led by
Stephan Young, Bobby Snead,
Andy Sherrill, Bob Hartness,
and Lynn Hudgins, met Myers
Park in their first match of
the season this afternoon.

THIS TEST

AND FIND OUT! «)

ves[ | nof_ |
ves[_]sof_]
ves[_]nof_]

of friends

reonally
true that “a man’s best friend ves | nof_ |
ie.

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S
= FILTER...A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

or freshman contest shall be
eligible for that sport in the
I-F season of the sport.”

Davidson Riflemen

Cat Nine Hopes
For Better Record

By BOB GREEN
The Wildcat baseballers meet Pfeiffer at Misen-
heimer tomorrow, hoping to improve their 1-9 season
record.

Dee Green will start on the
mound for the overdue ‘Cats.

Lead Loop Tourney It will be the first meeting of

At the end of the first stage|the clubs and Pfeiffer has lost
of the North Carolina R.O.T.C.| only once this season.
Invitational Rifle Tournament P.c. NEXT
h a ; .C.
the Davidson _sharp-shooters Presbyterian’s Blue Hose will

command the leading position ;
with a score of 1855 out of a|Pl@v Davidson here next Wed-

possible 2000 points. nesday with Pat Henderson
The second and final stage of! tentatively hurling for David-
the tournament will be held on! S°"- ‘
Saturday, April 11, at North! The Catawba Indians dropped
Carolina State College in Ra-.the Wildcat squad 54 March
leigh. 23 and the University of Con-
Stan Gaines has thus far set: necticut outscored the hosts
the pace for the Wildcat riflers'11-7 March 25. The Ohio Uni-
with a score of 376 out of a versity game the following day
possible 400 points. In overall, Was tained out at the end of
tournament competition Gaines| four innings.
is in third place, only 9 points’ The Wildcats began their
behind Wake Forest's Haitfield,, spring tour Friday, March 27,
who is in first place with a 384.!travelling to Stateboro for a
Team Captain Joe Wearn and!Saturday game with’ Georgia
Stan Gaines -have been chosen State Teachers College. The
for positions on the seeond Teachers edged the ‘Cats 2-1.
squad of the All-Southern Con- Rollins College stepped David-
ference Varsity Rifle Team. son 6-5 and 62 in Winter Park,
Marksmen Wearn and Gaines Florida.
have just recently led the Da: | FIRST WIN
vidson R.O.T.C. and Varsity) The ‘Cats garnered. their first
Rifle team to the Western Caro- win of the season in a double.
lina Conference Championship. header with the V.M.L Keydets

Wildcat Linksters Ci

last Friday. The Wildcat. nine
scored six runs on nine hits
while the losers scored once.
Dee Green was the winning
pitcher, allowing five hits for
the distance.

The’ Keydets bounced back in
the second game, scoring two
runs in the first inning and
running up a game total of six.
Mabry was the winning hurler
and Davidson starter Jim Smith
was charged with the loss. Rea-
gan and Killian led the ‘Cats
at the plate with two bingles
apiece.

‘CATS CLOBBERED

The 'Cats received their worst
dribbing of the season as Rich-
mond downed them 23-1 at
Richmond Tuesday. The win-
ners rattled out eighteen hits
and the 'Cats committed six er-
rors. Swilling was the winner
while Davidson used Hender-
son, Lide, and Smith.

Coach Tom Stevens praised
Don Killian and Russ Cotton
for their outstanding play at
shortstop and third base, re-
spectively. A lot of mental and
fielding erros have stymied the
‘Cat’s efforts so far this season.

ub

Citadel, Hit Furman Next

Davidson's golfers completed their third match of regular season play in Char- -
lotte Wednesday with a 22-5 victory over The Citadel. A week from today the

‘Cats swing against Furman in Greenville.

Tom Johnson and Sam Sloan, match” with the Purple Hur-
in Davidson's second and fifth rieanes next week. “We ought
positions respectively, clubbed to get a good idea of how
73's against the Bulldogs, and strong they will be in South-
were the Wildcats’ medalists, ern Conference play,” he said.
Three 75’s and a 76 rounded out
the other individual Davidson
scores.

Coach Tom Scott is looking
forward to a “pretty good

The Citadel.

HI-FICOMPONENTS

At Wholesale Net Prices

Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance
126 West Fifth S¢. y Charlotte 2, N.C.

LOOK YOUR BEST

for

SPRING FROLICS
in
Tuxedoes, Dinner Jackets, .
Ciummerbunds, & Shirts

from
Also, Rentals.

Rash Wilsow Li.

Main Street Davidson, N. C.

“The only comparison  be-
tween the two teams are the
matches we have both shot with
We beat ‘em 22
to 5 And during last year's

tour, we tied with George
Washington for first place,
while Furman finished way
down on the list, with Citadel

fourth.”

Coach Scott mentioned Fur-
man‘s. outstanding linkster,
senior Haywood  Sulliven.

“Chir Verner Stanley tagged
him in = two matches test
year.”

Scott also said that. the Wild-
eats whipped Furman last year
—"Tthe first match they had
lost in four years.”

Davidson traveled to the
Greenbrier-White. S u lp hur
Springs in West Virginia on
the 28th of March for the
White Sulphur Tourney. Ohio
University won the tournair¢nt,
a 36-hole affair. The ‘Cats tied
with Colgate for second place
and trailed Ohio by only seven
strokes. The tournament cov-
ered March 28 and 29, with 18
holes shot each day.

“It was our first meet of the
season,” said. Scott. “We. aver-
aged 74, which, I think, was
very good for the opener.”

Last week Davidson journ-
eyed to play two home-state
foes. At Raleigh on the tt ird,
a 13.5-13.5 tie resulted with
North Carolina State. The
‘Cats were beaten the next
day by the North Carotina
Tarheels, 15 to 12.

The Wildcats will go into the
Furman meet next Friday with
a one-win, one-loss, one-tie rec-
ord. After Furman a triangular
meet will be held at the Mvers
Park Country Club in Chart: tte,
The opponents will be ru iged
Wake Forest and The Citadel.

Said Coach Seott, “Wake
Forest will be the stronger of
the two; they should win their
conference. But we're counting
on our low 73 and 74 team aver-
age to puil us through.”
