-
(000
sr

FER WGED - LRY BOY- ARKIDG ED

Fivar

son ollese, ason, t y 2; oLume

DID YOU 1.1SS IT?

For over two weeks the editor has begged
and pleaded with those here at summer schoo
to remember the dmce on Saturday 18th of
this month. Hany students failed to take an
interest in this affair. To those, this
article is dedicated.

Sixty or more people hed a fabulous time last
Saturday night from 8:00 peme ~ until!! Many
danced the night through in the subtly deco-
rated ballroom of the College Union. Wot
only was there a Rock 'n Roll band that
played twenty minutes longer than their <
contract called for but there were some real
girls that attended this informal ond succe
essful dance.

The success of ths dence came only through
herd work. Some of our more active coeds
(namely Lucia and Gwen) vork-cd and planned
very hard for this occasion. George Kirk-
patrick was more than instrumental in

seeing that these plans were carried out.
Due to his work and to W. D. Kelly's co-
ordinating, the ballroom looked much like a
large, exciting cafe wich would no doubt

be off limits for 211 servicemen and those
under ‘he legal age of 21. Good work boys -
it was fabulous? Hany of the nore ambitious
and interested students took time out Sate
urday afternoon and helped the decoratirg
committee set the atmosphere for the dance.
To these people we of the Activity Committee
wish to send our thanks.

BREAK TONIGHT !

Tonight, the movie The Second Greatest Sex
will be shown for those who have kept up
with their studies and are ready for exams
tomorrow8$$ (Those who haven't will also he
admitted.)

giantantfarmowavailableforsightsecrswho

mayhavedevelopedarabidinterestinants,flies,
worms ,etc., overtheyearsandofcourseunderthe

influenceoftheDavidsonCollegefaculty(only
certaindept emeantofcourse! )ComeseeCommesee e.

GIFTS FROM TAHGL +I0CD

For those of you who are not from North
Carolina let me say that Tan: lewood is the
name of a Barn Theater on Highway 158 We,
just this side of “tinston-Salem. This
theater guild is commosed of highly talented
men and yomen who have aspirations of being
on the stage in later years, snd are being
coached by now-famous actors and actresses
of the lesitimate theatcr.

The: have been kind enough to give the college
some free tickets to their performances for
those who might be near ‘inston-Salem some
time this summer. Now, our skeptical Davide
son student will probably say,"If they are
any good they wouldn't be giving away tickets"
This is completely wrong!! These people are
in effect being very generous because they
could easily receive from %3.50 to 32.50 for
the free seat that they are offering to
anyone who would like to come.

The plays still available to the summer public
are as follows:

Dial M for hurder July 21-26
Star Production + " 28-Aug 2
Summer and Smoke Auge h-9
The Loud Red Patrick " 11-16
Three Hen on.a Horse " 18823
Diary of Anne Frank “ 25-30
Star Production + Sept. 1-7

(# these plays are thos: ia wich the cast
is composed of the theater-tested teachers,

and should be among the best.)

ye management asks that the Davidson students
come durirg the week and not the week-end
(Friday, Saturday, and 5un ‘ay) if possible

BRIDGE TOURN sY
Master-points for the bridge tournament
were won by Dudley Elvery and Frank Pile,
John Warlick and Jere Abernathy.

Congratulations boys !
