PAGE TWO

Meet Mrs. Martin: Busy
And Talented First Lady

Who's the proudest lady in
the land?

Today it may weil be David-
son’s First Lady, a Georgia girl
who never expected her hus-
band to be a college president.

Mrs. D. Grier Martin’s reac-
tion to her husband’s election
last spring was “utter amaze-
ment,” she said yesterday. “I
guess I though that I was the
only one who appreciated him!”
she told the DAVIDSONIAN.

But on the eve of Dr. Mar-
tin’s inauguration as the thir-
teenth president of Davidson

College, Mrs. Martin knew that
others shared her appreciation.
She had just returned from last
night's community-wide picnic

ed

Tomorrow they'll all be here.”

Relaxing in the living room
of the Martin home, Mrs. Mar-
tin smiled often as she talked

about her husband and _ chil-
dren.
ROMANCE
How did she meet Dr.
Martin?
“I had a date with his room-
mate at Emory University

where he was doing graduate
work. I was interested in meet-
ing him because I had heard
about him from his roommate
and from mine. too. She had
had a blind date with him the
previous summer and had been
impressed. But I didn’t have a
date with him until nearly two

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Richards Presides
‘At Inaugural Rites

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, as
Chairman of the Trustees of
i Davidson College, will preside
‘at the investiture today of D.
{Grier Martin as the thirteenth

president of Davidson.

“He took me to dinner at
Mrs. Henderson’s _ boarding
House on our first date,” said,
Mrs. Martin. “Two nights later A graduate of the class of
he came by after play practice 1922, Dr. Richards is the pres-
and took me bowling at Moores: ident of Columbia Theological
ville. And we had a date every Seminary in Decatur, Georgia.
night after that.” 'He assumed his position as

That was in 1934. A year chairman of the Board of Trus-

Procession-

(Continued From Page One)
lege; and Samuel R. Spencer,
Dean of Mary Baldwin College.

Famed editor, author and
speaker Harry Golden  repre-
sents City College of New York.
Maj. General Frank S. Bowen,

[Davidson Is D
In President’s Destiny

David Grier Martin was born November 11, 1910 in Covington, Georgia, the

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1959

ominant

Commander of the XIi Army|son of Edward Gary Martin and Susie Ramsey Martin. He attended public school in

Corps and a Federal Inspection
dignitary, is the delegate from
the United States Military
Academy. ‘

Reception-

Edward Martin was an alum-
nus of Erskine College and he
told his son he could go to any
college he wished, either Da-
vidson or Erskine! Grier Mar-
tin chose Davidson and it was

later they were married.
THE FAMILY |
The Martins have three chil-

(Continued From Page One)
executives from the hosiery |
mills in which he worked were}

tees in 1940.

While a student at David-
son, Or. Richards was very

a decision which was to great-
ly affect his life, even more so
than he could have imagined.

dren: Mike, 22, an honor grad-
uate of Davidson last year, is
now doing graduate work at
Duke University; D. G.. 18. a
Davidson freshman, will serve
as next year's student body
secretary-treasurer; daughter
Mimy, 12, returned in the fail
from a four-month visit in
France; she is a junior -high
student in the Davidson school.
“Just. get me started.” said
Mrs. Martin, “and I can talk After graduation, he attend-
forever about my children.” ‘ed Princeton where he obtained
And well she might. Both, his M:A. degree, Since then he
Mike and D. G. served as stu- has received B.A. and M.A. de-
dent body president at North grees from Oxford University,
Mecklenburg High School: both a B.D. degree from Columbia
have beet superior students! Theological Seminary and an
throughout their school years..honorory D.D. degree from
And young Mimy returned from Davidson.
her stay in France with a flu-, Dr. Richards is the son of
ency in French which amazes. Professor Emeritus C. M. Rich-
even the professors. ‘ards, who taught Bible at Dav-
All the family are athletes.{idson for a number of years
Mrs. Martin is a golfer and before retiring.
avid basketball fan. She played.
high school basketball and. ex-
eclled in tennis and swimming.
At Valdosta State College.
where she received her degree
in English, she was an athletic:
council president for two. years, .
Dr. Martin was a high school
basketball and football stat and
a Davidson standout in basket:
ball and track. The two boys’
were basketball , captains in
high school (D. G. also serve

active in extra-curricular ac-
tivities. He was Editor-in-
Chief of the DAVIDSONIAN,
and served on the Student
Council, YMCA cabinet, and
the Panhellenic Council (IFC).
He was tapped for member-
ship into Omicron Delta Kap-
pa honorary fraternity and
played on both the football
and baseball teams.

football teams).

Outstanding Leaders
On Board Ot Visitors

Davidson College is fortunate to number among its
many friends a group of outstanding men and women
4 who compose the Board of Visitors. The importance of
as captain of the tennis and this group of top-level leaders in businéss, civic, edu-

some of the people who parad-!
ed before the president. i

The program ended with the
presentation of a giant card
signed by the entire student
body.

Following the program Dr.
Martin stated to the DAVID-
SONTAN: “The interest of the
students in doing something for
me and my family at the time
of my inauguration means more
to me than I could ever express.
It indicates a friendship and
confidence on the part of the
students which I am sure I do
not deserve, but which I never-
theless cherish.

“Many people have felt that
T was ‘the students candidate’
for the presidency of Davidson.
1 hope that I shall be able to
conduct myself always in a
manner which will make them
feel that their confidence was
justified.”

From that day to the pres-
‘ent, the life of D. Grier Martin
can be told through his rela-
‘tionship to Davidson College.
The school was to influence
each step of his career.

The future Davidson presi-
dent entered college in the
fall of 1928 and at the June
graduation of 1932, in the
bottom of the depression, re.
ceived his BS degree in his-
tory, cum laude. While at Da-
vidson he built up oe brilliant

(°
€

ya)
|
Low?

a’

y
@
A .
nen oe,
1932—STUDENT

record in student activities.

Membership in Omicron Del-
ta Kappa honorary leadership

cational, professional and church life is not often pub-

- a”
« r
Aa 4 al
Ris
ry
MRS. MARTIN

in honor of: the Martins. And years later.”
the elaborate pomp and cere- The first date was at David-
mony of inauguration day .was son College. Mr. Martin had
just ahead. come to the college as alumni
“It’s all more elaborate than secretary, and the future Mrs.
we ever dreamed,” she said. Martin. fresh from dramatic
“[m really excited over seeing study in New York, was in Dav-
all the people who are coming. idson to produce a local-talent
And I’ve never seen Grier and musical sponsored by a Metho-

his three brothers all together.

Students,

dist youth group.

Graduates
Set Enviable Records ,

The Public Relations Department has released the that most of what he reads are

following facts about Davidson College. They suggest
that many may want to keep these facts at hand for
future reference and for comparison as Davidson con-

tinues to grow.

One of the most popular
methods of measuring a col-
lege’s academic standing is by
the number of successful grad-
uates.

Davidson ranks in the top
ten American Colleges in the
percentage of its graduates
who are Rhodes Scholars.
Sinee 1950, Davidson stands
Hh—regardiess of size of the
student body.

The college stands 7th in the
number of Danforth Scholar-
ship winners and 4th in the
number of Rockefeller Broth-
ers Fellowship winners.

Nearly 605 of Davidson’s
graduates go to graduate or
professional school.

it ranks in the top 15 col-
leges and universities in
America in the number of
National Merit Scholars en-
rolled in relation to the size
of the student body.

Davidson stands among the
top 80 colleges in America in
the percentage of its graduates
sted in Who’s Who in Ameri-
ce.

Since its: founding in 1837,
over 12,000 men have attended
the college.

On the alumni rolls are ov-
er one thousand doctors,
many of whom are leading
specialists in the nation.

One out of every four mini-

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

sters in the Southern Presby-
terian church is a Davidson
alumnus. i

Davidson has produced nu- |
merous leading jawyers, busi- '
ness executives, bankers,
teachers, college presidents
(35), merchants, diplomats
and government career men,
editors and labor relations ex-
perts.

In the 1958-59 student body
there are students from 25
states and 11 foreign countries.!

This year students have re-
ceived $271,000 through the —
college. Of this $180,000 was |

in the way of stholerships
end grants-in-aid. $20,000 was
made available to students
for loans, while college jobs

4

ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER

Associate Editor ..____. Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant ... Bob Livingston
Managing Editors ___. Ervin Duggan

Sports Editor ——.
Ne@s Edifor
Feature Editor

HOBBIES

What are the family hob-
bies? Well, of course the whole Founded in 1956, the Visitors
family loves basketball. And serve as “opinion moulders” to
all are music lovers (Dr. Martin interpret the college to specific
prefers classical music, says his groups. They also report to the
wife, but she is “very undis- college the reactions of the gen-
criminating. I like everything eral public or specific publics
but hillbilly and rock ‘n’ roll.”) with which they are associated

Mrs. Martin is a talented cook jn business or community life,
and loves to entertain and “try ong help Davidson accomplish
new dishes.” Seafood and sal- its objectives “by saying the
ads are her favorites, and the right thing at the right time to
new president loves roast beef the right people” abv.t its role

and desserts. ‘as an outstanding Christian lib-
Do they like to read? The erat arts college.

first lady laughed. “Oh. yes. My _
family saw that I read every- The Visitors are constantly at

thing when I was a girl, and work for the betterment of Da-
Pe never gotten over it. 1 Vidson. Not only do they sefve
like Jane Austen, Tolstoy and 8S @ group on their periodical
Dickens. jvisits to the campus, they do
“Grier always read every- not hesitate to share their ideas
thing, though now he’s so busy with the faculty and admini-
Sstrative staff in special advisory
educational books. .sesions, and by letters, confer-
She talked a bit about mod-\ences and telephone calls the
ern writing. “Of course it’s! Year round.
good, but somehow it's depress-' IMMEASURABLE AID
ing. There's no more humor. ! Throughout their long his-
NEW HOME tory, such older institutions as
Mrs. Martin was asked how! Harvard and Yale have been
busy she’d been since Dr.!immeasurably aided by men
Martin’s election. “Well, I was and women who have served as
always busy, but it’s different “advisors” or “visitors,” who
now. I'm invited to attend have thus made those institu-
many affairs with my husband tions a “hobby” and who have
and we've taken several trips! worked continuously in many

OPINION MOULDERS

”

‘this winter and spring. Right/ diverse and informal ways to
‘now I'm thinking a lot about strengthen and undergird their

the president’s house. It will be| educational programs.
lovely—I can't imagine ever) The college has many good
living in it!” friends who would welcome a

The _ historic President's
House—just next door to the
Martins’ present home—is un-
dergoing a complete renovation
scheduled for completion this’
summer.

The conversation returned
to the inauguration. “It seems
to me that perhaps all this

licized, and in some instances, not realized.

chance for a closer, semi-of-
ficial relationship with David-
son. In turn, the college and its
President need such a group to
keep in step both with other
leading colleges and with the
continuing challenge that lies
ahead.
KEY FRIENDS

Mr. Robert Sailstad, Assistant
to the President. when asked
about the Board of Visitors in
terms of their functions and

fraternity acknowledged his su-
perior record. Martin was Edi-
tor-in-Chief of the DAVIDSON-
LAN. Proficient in athletics, he.
was a varsity letterman in
basketball and track. He served
on the YMCA Cabinet and
Board of Directors and as an as-
sistant in History. Scabbard and
Blade, honorary military fra-
ternity, tapped him for out-
standing performance as a Cap-
tain in the ROTC. Martin was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsi-
lon social fraternity.

“Departmental (Colors

|
|
|
In order that visitors may recognize the mem- ||
bers of the Inaugural Procession by their hoods, |;
the following is a list of department or faculty ||

services to the college, said, Upon graduation, .Martin re-
“The visitors provide us with sumed his studies the following
key friends who are not only’ september at Emory Universi-
kept informed through meet- ty. doing graduate work in
but are in a position to advise WSt°ry for one year. This year
I w
us with college administration hecauce he hada casual meet.
regarding oie wo todne that ing with Louise McMichael
y hro i
Visitors can give us continuing ough MMoweven they. wens
aid and they enable us to bring not to see each other again for
in outstanding leaders from all two years.
fields of endeavour from whom!
we can gain much counsel and'
assistance,” !
Mr. Sailstad continued, ‘This
is a rather unique idea in this
section of the country, although,
it has long been a part of the,
tradition of Harvard and other |
top-ranking schools. Through.
the Visitors we can gain the!
long range view that is so vital,
in planning for the future of,
any college.” . :
Mr. James J. Harris of Char-,
lotte is the Chairman of the
Board of Visitors of Davidson
College at the present time.

DAVIDSON

White Drug Co.
C. $. Goodrum, Class of 1914

Copeland's

Hood Norton

in 1933, a phone call from

Or. Walter Lingle, then presi-

dent of Davidson, brought

him back to his alma mater
as Alumni Secretary, his first
full-time job. The future Mrs.

Martin was in New York di-

recting dramatic plays in oa

promising theatrical career.

She returned to Davidson to

assist with a focal church
play in August 1934 and be-
gan dating Grier Martin at
that time.

They were married on July
14, 1935 and Mrs. Martin gave
up her dramatic career to set-
tle in Davidson with her hus-
band. During his tenure as
Alumni Sccretary and Publicity
Director, Martin published the

‘first issue of the Davidson Col-

Jege Alumni Journal. which
now reaches 10,000 alumni.
The position of manager of
the Heating Equipment Depart-
ment of the Campbell Coal

‘Company in Atlanta, Georgia,

called him from Davidson in
1936 and he resigned his form-
er post. His brother Joe. now
president of the Dana Corpora-
tion. had notified him of the op-
portunity.

Four years later, Davidson
College again played an im
portant role in his life. Bob
Kell, student body president
the year Martin was a fresh-
man, was seeking a sales
manager for the Grey Hosiery
Mills in Bristol, Virginia. Re-
membering him, Kell contact-
ed Frank L. Jackson who
gave Martin the recommenda-
tion for the job.

Martin’s business career was
interrupted in 1944-1945, when
he served as a Lieutenant in
the United States Navy. Fol-
lowing the war he resumed his
position as partner and sales
manager, and his active role in
community life.

During these years, he was
secretary of the Bristol and Sul-
livan County Planning Commis-
sion, member of the Bristol
School Board and president of
the local Lions Club. As has
been true throughout his ca-
reer, he participated widely in
religious and social work, as
director of the Salvation Army
and American Red Cross and a
deacon of the First Presbyte-
rian Church in Bristol.

In 1950, another phone call
from Davidson directed his
path in a new direction. Dr.
John R, Cunningham asked him
to consider coming to the col-
lege as Treasurer and Business
Manager. Six months later, the
Martin family, now numbering

five, returned to Davidson. Mar-

ongratulations . ..

The following friends of Davidson College extend their
sincere congratulations onthe inauguration of Dr.
David Grier Martin as President of the College.

& Son

Covington with his three brothers, John, Joe and Samuel Martin.

tin was to serve in this role
through 1958. ,

The latest and most in»
portant in the series of phone
calls affecting Martin end Da-
videon came fest year from
Mr. D. R. LaFer in Gastonia.
tt notified him thet the Board
of Trustees had elected him
the thirteenth president of
Davidson in a meeting on
May 15. Today he is being
officially instated in that of-
fice which he accepted one
year ago.

President Martin has con-
tinued his active service in ed-
ucational, business, and religt-
ous work. Besides his duties
here at Davidson, he is also a
Trustee of Mary Baldwin Col-
lege in Staunton, Virginia, a
director of the Piedmont Bank

Y

1959—PRESIDENT

and. Trust Company in Davidson
and a deacon of the College
Presbyterian Church. In Feb-
ruary of this year, King Col-
lege in Bristol, Tennessee con-
ferred an honotary Doctor of
Laws degrée upon him.

Amid his busy schedule,
Dr. Martin still seeks relaxa-
tion with his family and his
favorite hobbies. His oldest
son, Jack McMicheal (Mike)
is a graduate student in His
tory at Duke University; Da-
vid Grier Jr. (“D. G.") is a
Davidson freshmen; and Su-
san Embry (Mimy) attends
Davidson School.

Continuing his interest in
sports, Dr. Martin still enjoys
playing golf, pitching horse-
shoes, and water skiing. In re-
cent years, he and Mrs. Martin
have conducted student tours to
Europe.

With the inauguration §ser-
vices today, David Grier Martin
will become an integral part of
the tradition of that college
which has so influenced him
throughout his life.

Wise Florist
Besk Inc. Jewelers
Army-Navy Store
Economy Store
Goodman Drugs - Prescriptions

paid $23,000 to students. should come at the end of the ; ° of
ROTC payments were $48,000, career—much later than now. colors | Barber Shop Scottie s
making the totel of over # That's the time for glory. Butl| Agriculture —.——...-. _... Maize Western Auto Associate Store Brown’s Men Shop
corn dies woth really am Ste age a | Avs, Letters, Humanities —— ~~ While Johnson Super Market State Theatre
cia a re Dl Ernie mt, | "tonsa Soe oak M & M Soda Shop Connoisseur
son students received a schol- en a reporter asked anoth- -- ee
arship or grant-in-aid in 1958- er question: What would she'| Dentistry _  .  Lilae McKissick’s Shoe Shop Safety Chevrolet
59. like to see the new president} fF i _ - Copper j H . H
Since 1951-52 Davidson’s en- accomplish at Davidson Col-! Edueation, Pedagog Light Aue Davidson Hardware & Amburn Pontiac Buick
dowment has been raised from lege? What did she feel was Engineering y _ Orange Grocery Co. ompany
$6,405,000 to the present figure needed the most? : vetoes : ° ,
of $9,300,000, while the col- The proudest lady in the land | Fine Arts, Architecture .. Brown Rush Wilson Ltd. Belk’s Department Store
lege’s expcnse budget has gone tooked uP. smiling, and proved Forestry . . __ Russet | J ohnson’s B arber Shop
up from $940,000 to $1,600,000, ; herself a diplomat: _.. : :
The 1958-59 endowment per stu-. “I value my marriage too lemanies __ Dark Purple | . Jackson Cleaners CHARLOTTE ’
dent is $10,220. much to answer that,” she said. | yi) science __ Lemon Withers Electric Company
; Medicine Green |! College Restaurant Jack Wood, Ltd.
———~ Ba Armfield Music -... Pink | Marietta‘’s Dress Shop Joe Little Record C
‘ __ Dick Smith Nursing ... _ __..___. Apricot |! Dovid Printing Sh f 0.
ave Gillis Oratory. Siver Gray avidson Printing Shop Parker-Gardner Co.
- armacy - ve |, Open Kitchen Restaur
‘a pavid Jord Philanthropy _ Ss séRsle MOORESVILLE he | Steck H ant
Assignments Bator David Jordan | pytosophy | arcoal Steak House
Cartoonists — Redding ‘Public Health . Salmon | Oaks Motor Court Gondola Restaurant
Bob Moore Starling Physical Education __ Sage Green Setzer, Watch, Gift, & Tate-Brown Inc.
B. Millner Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe Science Golden Yellow Music Sh . 1
Tom Colvin Cireulation Mgr. Albert McClure,Jr. Social Service Citron usic onop Providence Men’s Shop
Charles Rose Ass't. Business Manager Greg Grana Surgical Chiropody — Nile Green John Mack & Son Visulite Theatre
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, Theology and Divinity Scarlet |! The Young Men‘s Shop The Stag Shop, Ed Mellon Co.
under Act of March 3, 1879. Veterinary Science Gray

