PERSOWALITICS SYNOD YOULG PZOPLE DUE IN MonDAY

oa

Look around you a bit every once in Next week Davidson College plays host
a while, enjoy the fascinating people to the ilorth Carolina Presb terian young
which pervade the college campus this peoplee Approximately 300 boys and
summer. I'm sure our friends here will girls ranging from high school juniors
forgive us if we allow ourselves to to College sophomores will meet here
introduce’ to our readers some of the more for religious study and recreatione
famous men who have come back this session
to share their friendly little eccentri- Rev. Rusell Kerr, pastor of Philadel-
cities with the rest of use phia Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, —
‘ will direct the conference activities,
Take Hog, for instance. He'll be and the principal speakers will be Pre.
glad to engage atiyone with the necessary Ben Lacy Rose, Lee Stoffel and Frank Hall.
qualifications in a good ol! Coke “ -
drinking contest in thé cafeteria...And Registration is scheduled for Honday
Combat Kelly = it's confidential but we afternoon and the young peonle will
understand that he's been asked to take leave our camous after breakfast on
Cop Linker's position during his vaca- Saturday ,

tioneseDaugherty's green hornet taxi
serviceessRembrant Redding's 68th work

in oil to the same girl...siabcock, the
Vanderer, quoting lacbeth to Dr. Crawford. .

rn SS

Wells Garden's expressed relief that You might find the following helpful:
there's no Court of Control in summer

schooleesSmoothy Miller, snower of the Union Hours: 8:30 aeme to 10:00 peme
high school set, rescued by cops from Cafeteria: Breakfast: 7:15 to 7:45 apm.
beach jiveseeeAl Andrews wider taking bum | Lunch: 12:30 to 1:15 pom.
rap from beach policee..General Garvin Dinner: 5:30 to 6:15 peme
‘opening bootleg dispensary on campus

in absence of functional infirnaryeee Stulent Store: 7:00 to 8:00 aeme
Graham and Butch coming at last into 12:00 to 2:00 peme

the open from the confines of the 6:00 to 8:00 peme
science building, see tlie Dana foundations

for the first timeeeeHonest Henry ileale's:
Disconnected speedometer ~ will traveleoe

Kirkpatrick, giving advicé to lovelorn Backward, turn backward,
Levinis hopefuls, ard anyone else, inci-~ O Time in thy flighte=
déntally..ellaffaker returning to run hill I've thought of a comeback
on rotation basis during administration I needed last nighteece

vacationSeseArmfield, cooperating with
Wilder, Fund lorgest chapel of Sessioneee
Paul Franson, the man in the long black
béardeeeCe Shaw Smooth opens art gallery
in officesee

re
