PAGE FOUR

emmaemtrzl

a 4d atm 8)
Sd .
; f their pre-graduate days.
‘ ey is f Ls | Dr. Francis Ghigo, (Davidson
;™* 29) has: acquired‘ a professor-

ship in French. Dr. Ghigo was
jborn in Scranton, Pennsylvania,
in 1008. He attended the Uni-
versity of North Carolina in
1937. where he received his
‘M.A. and returned to Chapel
‘Hill in 1943 to complete his
Ph.D. requirements.

| In 1938, Miss Ruth Denning-
ton became Mrs. Ghigo. They
| now have one son. Dr. Ghigo
has previously held professor-
ships at the Riverside Military
Institute, Hampden-Sydney Col-
‘Hege, U.N.C., and the Universi-
ty of Richmond.

The Chemistry Department is
welcoming Dr. John T. Mac-
}Queen as a new assistant pro-
fessor. Dr. MacQuetn was born
in Dunn, North Carolina, in
1933 and attended Davidson
four years prior to his gradu-
ation in 1954. Since then, he
has studied at U.N.C. and plans
to complete his Ph.D. labors
sometime in June of 1960.

‘§9 GRADUATE RETURNS

William. E. Wilkinson, a Da-
vidson graduate of last May,
has returned to the campus as
a visiting instructor in mathe-

Mrs. D. Grier Martin stends proudly before her newly re-
modeled home.

Martins’ Home Gets
“Beauty Treatment’

By R. G. DAVIDSON matics. Instructor Wilkinson

Devidsonian Staff Writer i was born in 1937 in Mebane, N.

The presidential home has had a major face lifting.|c. and married Betty R. Wil-

The remodeling began last spring in preparation for|kinson in 1958. He is a member
President D: Grier Martin. The work marks the most ex-|of Phi Beta Kappa. ~

tensive changing of the house since 1860. DCE error oe
The one story porch was re-, 1660. Two new rooms to’ the Kelton, an alumnus of David-
moved and a Neo-classic porti- south front, one upstairs and: son from the class of 1951. He
co more in accordance with the one downstairs, were added was born in Mt. Pleasant, Ten-
architecture of the original as a result. it then hed Its nessee and in 1954 married
quadrangle at Davidson was present front except for the Paula Abernethy. Dr. Kelton
added. A one story wing to the portico. There was ® one [2° 5 post-graduate student at
south was added in front in story porch across the front the University of North Caro-
order to ‘lengthen the living, or from 1860 ‘till the present re- j1:., completing work on a
reception, room. Most of the modeling. Ph.D. in 1956. He also held
interior woodwork was changed professor W. J. Martin, Sr. ————

(with the exception of that in (for whom the chemistry build- ®
the two original rooms to the ing is named) lived in this Two YMCA Drives
Star Next Week

north, first and‘ second story). house during the 1870's, 1880's,
he Y.M.C.A. member-

A new roof was added, and and 1890's. He added the room
the entire house was air-condi- behind the present study and.
tioned. a second story over the “L”

It is now for the first time ;

bince it was built a suitable and ig¢60.

which may have been. added injship drive will begin on‘

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Nine. Faculty Additions
/__|Include Four Alumni

Davidson is hailing nine new faculty members for
the fall semester. Four of this number are returning to
their alma mater to take this different campus role from

teaching positions at U.N.C.
and at the University of Ala-
bama between 1955 and 1959.

In the History Department,
Dr. Malcolm Lester holds his
first Davidson professorship.
He was.born in Georgetown,
Georgia, in 1924, and married
Pauline Domingos in July of
1956. He attended Mercer Uni-
versity receiving an A.B. in
1945, and the University of
Virginia in 1954 receiving a
Ph.D.

In 1950, he was awarded a
Fulbright Scholarship to the
University of London. For the
last thirteen years, he has
been a professor of history and
Dean of the College of Liberal
Arts at Mercer University. He
is also a member of Phi Beta
Kappa.

COMES FROM U. VA.

Dr. Charles McClellan Hum-
mel comes from studies at the
University of Virginia to ‘Da-
vidson as an associate profes-
sor of business and economics.
Dr. Hummel was born in 1922
in Lafayette, North Carolina,
and in 1942, married Mayo B.
Hummel. They now have one
daughter.

‘The new professor, studied
at V.P.I. and at the University
of Pennsylvania before receiv-
ing his Ph.D. this year at The
University of: Virginia. He was
also an accountant for some
years and held the position of
assistant professor at Hampden-
Sydney.

A new face at the gym this
year will be Dwight Shoe, an
assistant football ‘coach and
physical training instructor.
Mr. Shoe was born in Salisbury
where he attended Boyden
High. In 1952, he married Anne
Osborne and a year later grad-
uated from East Carolina with
a B.S. He has been a member
of the coaching staffs at Myers
Park High School in Charlotte
and at Wingate Jr. College.

BIOLOGY ASSISTANT

Monday, September 21 and An assistant Biology profes-

No faculty homes will be
open following Vespers this
Sunday night. The Davidson

Il tradition of faculty visite
tion will begin on Sunday
evening, September 27. The

rush and confusion of first
week activities prompted the
postponement of this Sun-
day’s program. The DAVID-
SONIAN will carry a week-
ly list of faculty homes
which are open to students.

Greeks Welcome
Two Housemothers

Mrs. R. A. Grimes and Mrs.
A. M. McKeithan have taken
positions this fall as fraternity
housemothers at Davidson Col-
lege.

Mrs. Grimes, from Hickory,
N. C., is the new housemother
for Beta Theta Pi fraternity.
For the past eight years she|will then be placed on his head
has managed the dining room|and he will be required to wear
at the Blowing Rock Country (this beanie until the next Fri-
Club in Blowing Rock, N. C. |day chapel.

Mrs. McKeithan will be SHORTER PROGRAM
housemother for Sigma Chi fra-| Court of Control members
ternity. From Gastonia, N. C.,/will be spaced throughout the
she has had many years experi-jfreshmen section as a safe-
ence in household manage-|guard. Campusing of second of-
ment. fenders and those who act

Union's Fare Promises

Active Fall Schedule

As a result there have been
some important changes in the
Court's regulations and proce-
dure. Parhaps the ‘most im-
portant innovation will be the
Friday chapel procedure at
which the Court participates
each week. A delinquent fresh-
man will not be required to
walk to the front of the student
body, but instead will be re-
quired to stand at bis assigned
chapel seat so that his offense
can be read. A yellow beanie

Woody Morcock, president of the College Union, has

announced a full Union program for the Fall Semester.
Woody commented, “Our program not only contains
varied activities, but also many events and projects
which the Union Committee has never had before.

The Union is planning oppor- that there would be a forceful
tunities for professors and stu- moderator.
dents majoring in the their TOP MOVIES SLATED
various fields to get together The Union committee is also
for coffee. planning bridge, chess, and

SOCIAL DIRECTORY ping pong tournaments. There

The Union Committee will # am excellent list of movies
publish a school directory scheduled for the fall. “Pinky”
which will include students’ Will be shown tonight. “The
school and home addresses, Girl Can’t Help It,” “Come Fill
phone numbers, fraternity af. the Cup, Den’t Go Near the
jfiliations, and other usefulgin- Water,” and “Peyton Place
formation such as phone num- 2f@ coming in the next few
bers of gifis’ colleges. months.

Along with “This Week’ In
_Davidson”, the ‘calendar of
events for the coming week,
the Union is also going to pro-
vide a semester calendar free
for all students and faculty:

The College Union is
sponsoring an auction next
week. The main selling item
will be old records from the
College Union record album.

convenient residence for the
president of the college.

This house was built the
first year that the college
opened, 1837, and was oceu-
‘pled by the first president,
Robert Hall Morrison. it was
then a two story brick house
with four relatively smail

The house remained substan- will continue until the next sor for this year will be Dr.
dnesday under the di-} William T. Lammers. Dr. Lam-
ministrations of Presidents W.|rection of Wesley Weeks,
J. Martin, Jr., W. L. Lingle, and| Membership Chairman. A ty, Georgia, where he was born
bejin 1931. He married Nancy G. 7
launched by a chapel pro-jLammers in 1958." They now 24 space for the students’ per-
gram on Thursday, Septem-: have

ber 24, President Dave Emory University, the new bio-
Robinson announced today.

tially the same during the ad-

financia) drive will

John R, Cunningham.

Journalist Opens

During the

membership|and a Ph.D. in 1958. He also

The Union is selling the L.P.
albums in order to buy a
greater variety of selections.

The Union will also suc-
tion off. anything students
would like to sell. The exact
time of the suction will be
announced by the Union in
the next few days.

The calendar will resemble a
_wall calendar, having a box for
each day which will contain all
scheduled events for that day

-mers comes from Dekalb Coun-

sonal activities.

Morcock said that the Union
is going to do a great deal to
increase the relations between

one daughter. From

logist received a B.A. in 1952

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1959

Co a aaa enna

By RUSS SHOWALTER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

strongly indignant and rowdy

Gee ‘‘Means Business”
With Revitalized Court

“We really mean business.” These were the words of Milton Gee, Judge of this
year’s Court of Control, at a recent DAVIDSONIAN interview. about the Court's ef-
fort to “put itself back in its proper place on the Davidson campus.”

“The punishment this year

will be used as is the Court'swill be extra critical,” he said.
power under the student body“An example of such will be

Constitution.

shining shoes for upperclass-

The period for this year’smen and running ‘stud’ for two
program will be about threefloors in various upperclass-
weeks shorter than in previousmen dormitories. The best way

years.
Gee stressed, “Nothing but
nothings come before the

Court. Boys who have appeared
before the Court in the past
are those who haven't found
themselves. They were not out-
standing on the athletic field
or in the classroom, so in order
to make a name for themselves,
they intentionally broke the
rules set up by the Court,
knowing that they would be
recognized in this manner. I
believe this type of boys to
be worthless and not real mem-
bers of the Davidson student
body.”

FRATERNITY BACKING.

Gee went on to say that these
Davidson traditions have been
instilled into these men since
1921 and urged freshmen to
realize the true purpose of the
Court. He also stated that this
body would have the backing
and support of the fraternity
system and that the various fra-
ternities would frown upon any
of their pledges peing called
up before the Court.

e

Professors Altend
Summer Workshop

Four Davidson professors at-
tended a three-week Campus
Community Workshop this
summer in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, sponsored by the
Danforth Foundation. Profes-
sors Frontis Johnston, James
Purcell, William Workman, and
John Evans tepresented the
college.

A total of 28 liberal arts col-
leges, most of. them church af-
filiated, were invited to send
delegates. The program includ-
ed seminars which were held
five days a week. Noted edu-
cators led the seminars and
spoke -at general sessions.

“The committee expects to
make an oxtensive report to
the faculty,” Dr. Johnston re-
ported. “We hope we have
brought back some ideas con-
cerning the curriculum and

of avoiding punishment will
consist of following the simple
test put before the class of
1963.”

NO HISSING

Gee urged upperclassmen to
give the Court its utmost sup-
port. He stated that he would
prefer them to remain as quiet
as possible, leaving off booing
and hissing.

“J would like to see the up-
perclassmen put forth an hon-
est effort and try to make the
freshmen class realize the
worth and importance of the
body which I represent,” Gee
said. “I would urge al! upper-.
classmen to cooperate and re-
port any violations that they
might see.”

The other members of the.
Court this year are Jimmy
Hodges, Dave McCullough,
Newt Quantz, Bill Shinn, Claude
Finney, Cecil Holcomb, and
Bruce Usher.

Hamilton Receives
GE Scholarship

The college has awarded its
$500 General Electric “College
Bowl" scholarship to freshman
James E. Hamilton of Syracuse,
New York. The scholarship was
won by the four-man Davidson
team which appeared on the ;
nationally televised TV panel
show last spring.

Hamilton attended the Mount
Hermon School for Boys in
Mount Hermon, Massachusetts.
This past summer he toured
the Near East, after studying
at the Sutton Valence School
lin England last year on a
Schoolboy Scholarship.

The Davidson College Bowl
team, composed of seniors Bob-
by Livingston and Frank Nye
and last year’s graduates Laur-
ens Walker and Charles Chas-
tain, lost to the University of
Minnesota team on the program
last April. The school auto-

s LJ
rooms, two upstairs and two New Artist Series
downstairs. :
The present northern half of! The Davidson College Artist

the house contains’ the original Series this year has scheduled
building. There were perhaps,the performance of a number
shed rooms to the rear and cer- Of concerts and also the ap-
tainly an outside kitchen, car. Pearance of several nationally
riage house, smoke house, slave Known personalities.

drive, students who wish to
join will be asked by solicitors
to indicate those parts of the} From Ake land of the north
Y¥.M.C.A. program which they;comes Robert. Sutherland Lord,
are interested in participating'a new instructor in organ. Mr.
in. Both members and non- | Lord was borh in Marblehead,
members will be asked to con-| Massachusetts, in 1930. He at.
tribute to the financial drive,| tended Dartmouth College
the success of which will ulti-| where he received an A.B. in
mately determine the breadth/ 1952. He also earned an M.A.

held a position in the TVA and
at Piedmont College.

the foreign exchange students

jand the student body. The
Union has planned round ta-
ble dinners in which each ex-
ch.nge student would plan a
meal and decorate the room to
depict a typical meal in his
country. Discussion about the
exchange student's country
would follow the meal.

other phases of college life|matically ‘received the schol-
which we can follow through |arship by its appearance on the
in the future here.” show.

The College Union began its
program long. before most of
the upper classmen returned to
the campus. During the fresh-
men orientation program the
Union supervised the Activi-
ties’ Fair. Every- organization
on campus was invited to have
a display explaining its specific
activity, and in all there were

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

services

1

For Quick Service on Dacrons & Ivy
League Clothes, Bring Your Suits To
Us for Expert Cleaning & Pressing.

Jackson Cleaners

Across From Gulf Station
Davidson, N. C.

cabins, and the like. The first program will be
By the time of the War Be-|held during Homecoming and
the lot opposite the present, Journalist and correspondent. The Y.M.C.A. program was
Shearer Hall) and the old pres-| Other pqrformances for this! introduced to the freshmen
When Maxwell Chambers [Pamplona Choir; January 12,| September 15.
left Davidson « quarter of @ |The David Tihmar Dance Thea-| A separation of the member-
the old house. This wes in ;Xuerti. One additional art§st|year in an effort to more hon-
will appear in the spring. estly learn and challenge the
g Students ‘sincerely hopes that all stu-| Voluntary chapel
dents will take advantage of
change students joined the | ance. planned for Erwin Lodge on
ranks of freshman and trans-| Special date. tickets for each|Qctober 9 for those interested
here for one year on a grant| year for only one dollar. . Y.M.C.A. worker will speak.
made possible by the Richard-
Richardson Foundation is spon-'
soring this phase of Davidson's.
contribute towards a summer’
of touring the United States, |
The students, their countries,
and the fraternities that they
tina, Sigma Alpha Epsilon;
Sveinn Gustavsson, Iceland,
R. Balgard, Sweden, Kappa Al-
pha; Adolph Biusse van Oud-
England, Alpha Tau Omega;
John Reid, England, Sigma Nu;
Other international students
who are returning to Davidson
*Koogie” Kwon, Sigma Chi;
Tony Diaz, Phi Gamma Delta;

tween the States a new presi-!Will feature Harrison Salisbury,
dent's house had been built (on the Pulitzer Prize winning
ident’s house had become a fac-|yeat will be: November 13, Vin-| by Dave Robinson in an ori-
ulty house. Leent Price; November 23,) entation assembly Tuesday,
million doftars, part of this |tte:; February 19, Donald|ship and financial programs
money was Used to enlarge |Gramm; and March 16, Anton;has been brought. about this
Each student is entitled tolinterests of the students, Pres-
admission and the committee [ident Robinson stated.
Begin College Y
gin 0 ege Caf these opportunities and will Lingle Chapel on Monday, Sep-
Eight new international ex-|plan to attend every perform-jtember 21. A retreat has been
fers here last week for orien- individual performance will bejin the program of the Y.M:C.A.
tation. These students will study , available to students again this ' Carlton Parker, Regiona |
son Foundation program.
For the second year the
international student program. '
Each student in the ‘program
is yiven a grant that will cover
his expenses at Davidson and.
All the students will board | BACK 10 D AVI DSON
with fraternities on campus.
will eat with are as follows:
Mario Humberto Acuna, Argen-
Beta Theta Pi; Bjorn Grandell,
Finlahd, Kappa Sigma; Gunnar
Alblas, The Netherlands, Pi
Kappa Phi; R. P. Glyn Hughes,
and Hansjorg ‘Renk, Switzer.
Jand, Pi Kappa Alpha.
are Nam Young Park, Phi Del-
ta Theta; Sung Kyu Kim,
end Ed Pantigoso, Sigma Phi
Bosilon.

j will be resumed at 10:20 in!.

of the Y.M.C.A. program. at Yale the early part of this
year. He has served as the
minister of music at the First
Presbyterian Church in Bridge-
port, Conn., and at the Edge-
wood Congregationalist Church
in New Haven.

The highlight of this series
of foreign meals will be an in-
ternational dinner. Following
the meal there will possibly be

more than twenty displays.

The Union has published a
small red brochure which ex-
plains the operation and goals
a debate between two English of the Union program. This
and two German students over brochure is available at the
World War II. Morcock added Union desk.

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

Charlotte, N. C.

i

' oo

]

x

-
%

Yet
BSe cs

ementhol fresh «rich tobacco taste - modern filter, too

Salem refreshes your taste

NOW MORE
THAN EVER

“air-sottens” every

.

Salem's new cigarette paper discovery

. ¢ 4 ’ we o
. ’ : ;
a —_ ;

}

=

Speciol new HIGN POROSITY
cigarette poper

blond fr
a softer, fres!

Salem research creates a rev

* ¢

tnvisible porous openings
esh air with each puff for
her, more flavorful smoke

olutionary new cifa-

rette paper that breathes new refreshing softness
and. finer flavor into the smoke. Now, more than
ever, there's Springtime freshness in every puff of
a Salem. Smoke refreshed ...smoke Salem.

th Rod te

and da

Be.
