‘Cats Still Seeking
First Conference Win
(See Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

Che

Dautdsont

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBE RN 6, 1959

Trend Toward More
Liberal Cut Policies
(See Page Two)

NUMBER EIGHT

Students Vote Overwhelmingly

“Tm Not Sure That We Can Do

Anything!” Moans A Dejected Dee

The Student Council will conduct an open forum meeting on the drinking problem on November 16

By LEE KIRBY

Davidsonian

Staff Writer

The

forum, to take place in the Ballroom of the Student Union, will include members of the faculty and admini-
stration, as well as the presidents of the twelve social fraternities.

The forum was initiated by
the Council at its meeting Mon-
day, November 2, in the Blue
Room of the Student. Union.
Vespers conduct and the Court
of Control were also discussed.

The forum on drinking will
ne a _— of the regular ‘Stu Stu-

dent
exchange
dent
aged. The
drinking and campus problems
related
drinking rule.

but an
and stu-
encour-
include

Council meeting,
of faculty
opinion will be
topic will
the

to drinking and

At this watts _ wating

President Dee Green suggest-
ed for consideration the
topics of drinking, curricu-
lum, required religious exer-
cises, and school spirit. It
was pointed out that drink-
ing is probably the strong-
est issue that could be stud-

Dean Johnston Favors —
Unlimited Cut System

“I have long felt that I would rather see an unlimited cut system here at Da-
vidson than the one we presently have.”
ty. Frontis W. Johnston as he confronted the DAVIDSONIAN with his views on a

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

These were the

liberalized cut system in a staff interview Wednesday

“I believe that only upper-
classmen should have — the
privilege of unlimited cuts,’’ he
continued. “Also I think that
the twenty-five per cent rule
should remain in effect.

“If such a new system were

and would therefore have to
really be on their toes.

“Of course,” he quipped,
“nédthing in the world would
alter some teacher's methods.

This might be true of myself.”

ied.

Some members were reluc-

tant to begin with a discussion ,

of drinking, ‘however, since
they felt that the Council was
unable to-do anything about. it,
faculty opinion being conser-
vative. “I’m not sure that we
ean do anything!” Green re-

‘plied,

The drinking. issue was fin-
ally selected in hope that a. bet-
ter understanding can be de-
veloped between the faculty
and the student body

The group scheduled a meet-

ing for Monday, November 9, to
plan for the open forum

The Council had held Thurs-
day, October 29 to take action
‘on Vespers conduct, At that
time the group enacted a mo-

words of Dean of the Facul-

afternoon.

student is not mature enough
to warrent a liberalized cut
policy such as I favor.

“Well, | would agree with
my colleagues that students
are not mature. But | believe
that one way to cultivate ma-

tion by D. G, Martin to place
Vespers conduct under Section
One of the Student Body Regu:
lations.

Section One forbids con-
duct unbecoming a _ gentle-
man while on the campus.
President Green announced
this decision in: Chapel on
Friday, October 30.

The Council was reminded
Monday night to report viola-

eM cseceenttneenseteeeceencnesnteiehinimnenennnressesaimncenpanis cudnt eee

" ~sdiebdittiaasadlt OE
" £

be

Miss Furman Ivey, of Columbia College, representing
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, is presented as the first an-
nual Homecoming Queen at half-time of the Wofford game.
President Martin presented her on behalf of the !FC.

(Photo by Rose)

To Favor Liberalized Cut Policy

Diversified Opinions

On Method Employed

By TOM COLVIN

Davidsonian News Editor
The student body, in an ove ——— show of
solidarity, voted in. favor. of a liberalized cut policy dur-
ing chapel Tuesday morning. The wall. 4 taken by the DA-
VIDSONIAN to determine student opinion on this issue,
was completed by 613 of the students who attended
chapel. This number represents. approximately two-
thirds of the entire. student body. A faculty poll was

also taken.
Of the 613 students polled,
562, or about 61 percent of the
student body, were in favor of

divisions appeared: 1). unlimit-
ed cuts for those making a cer-
tain grade, 2) specific cuts de-

‘a more liberal cut policy. Fifty pendent on grades, and 3) a
students, or about five percent combination of the first two.
of the student body, stated that Only fourteen people were
* they were content with the for unlimited cuts for seniors
present. system, while one stu- only
dent was in favor of a stricter THREE UPPER CLASSES
eut policy One hundred and eighty-three

indicated that they were in
favor of a liberalized cut sys
. (Continued On Page Four)

Freshman Council
‘Chooses Officers

CUTS FOR ALL
One hundred and ninety-five
students. were in fayor of a
more liberal system for all stu
dents. Sixty-six of. these felt
‘that unlimited cuts should be
granted regardless of grades.

One hundred and twenty-nine
thought that cuts should be} seventeen out of twenty rep-
granted. according to’ grades.|ocontatives of the Class of

}However, opinion was divided’ j9g3 met Wednesday night to
jas to how grades should deter-| cject officers. Alec Morgan,
|mine the number of cuts. Many|from Atlanta, Georgia; is pres-
jof these students felt that un-\igent of the Freshman Couneil.
{limited cuts should be given| He is pledged to Beta Theta Pi
to those making a certain grade! fraternity. Secretary-Treasurer
(grades specified ranged from | js Ken Kelley, a Phi Delta ‘The-
€ to A). People falling below |t, pledge, from Jacksonville,
; this grade would remain under | rjorida.

“In a new system with a

Hberaiiasd policy on cuts, the tions to the officers of the stu-

initiated, the students would

have to realize that the chips
would fall where they would
and that we'd lose some custo-
(mers. It would make the stu-
dent more and more. ’responsi-

be parts of a team, both try-
ing to learn. Now, the teach-
er is considered more of an
enemy that demands the stu-

professors and students would ~

‘ble for his own education if the
‘coersive restraints were re-
moved, and this would prob-
ably result in some fatalities.

“However, I'm not interest-
ed in a new system just to
remove the chaff from the
wheat. I'm in favor of it be-
cause | think it would make
the student's attitude toward
learning fundamentally  dif-
ferent.

“Also I think that such a
system would be a challenge to
the teachers. They would no
longer have a captive audience

dents: presence in his class.
“The present cut system is
somewhat illogical. It does not
realize that there are some
classes that a student ‘needs to
atténd more than others. Also,
after quality points have been
lost when,. in most cases, the
student has taken five cuts, no
further penalty is inflicted un-
til the student has violated the
twenty-five per cent’ rule.

“Some of my colleagues dis-
agree violently with me _ con-
cerning my. views on this sub-
feet. They argue that the typical

ODK

BENSON HART McCULLOUGH

At the sound of the gavel in Tuesday's chapel, Da-
vidson Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership fraternity, tapped seven students and a Char-
lotte business executive into its membership. The 1959
Fall tapping followed a speech on leadership by Sheldon
P. Smith, General Manager of the Charlotte branch of
Douglas Aircraft Company.

Tapped for ODK membership were Bob Avinger,
Charlie Benson, George Hart, Dave McCullough, Larry
McNeill, Tom Ridenhour, Tom Price and Mr. Sheldon
Smith. Prior to the ceremony, ODK President Dabney
Stuart stated that the initiates were selected primarily
on the basis of character.

Bob Avinger, a Business major from Columbia, S.
C., is current holder of the’ A. K. Phifer Scholarship, an
annual award recognizing distinguished work in eco-
nomics. He is also president‘ of Beta Theta Pi social fra-
ternity, and vice-president of the Senior Class.

Charlie Benson, a senior from Maitland, Fla., is
taking History honors as a pre-law student. He is
co-captain of the 1959 football team, a member of Eu-
menean Literary Society, senior representative on the
Student Council, a member of Alpha Tau Omega social
fraternity and winner of the C. T. Stowe Memorial Award
for athletes outstanding in scholarship.

George Hart, a senior from Charlotte is a member
of the Honor Council, the “D” Club, Sigma Chi social

RIDENHOUR

_ MeNEILL PRICE

fraternity and has shown outstanding ability in foot-
ball, baseball and IFC basketball.

Dave McCullough, a pre-med major from Lincoln-
ton, N. C., is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honor-
ary pre-med fraternity, -Kappa Sigma social fraternity,
the Beaver Club, the YMCA, the “D’ Club and is a
varsity football letterman.

Larry McNeill, a senior from Raeford, is a letter-
man in cross-country, a member of the varsity basket-
ball, baseball and track teams, a member of Kappa Sig-
ma social fraternity, and the Honor Council.

Tom Price, a pre-med major from Florence, S. C.,
is president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Secretary-
Treasurer of the Senior Class, a member of Delta Phi
Alpha, honorary German fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Del-
ta, honorary pre-med fraternity, Eumenean _— So-
ciety, the YMCA and the soccer team.

Tom Ridenhour, a senior from Concord, is a mem-
ber of the YMCA Cabinet, the wrestling team, Phi Gam-
ma Delta social fraternity and Delta Phi Alpha, honor-
ary German fraternity.

Mr. Sheldon Smith is General Manager of Doug-
las Aircraft Comany’s Charlotte branch. He graduated
from Pomona College and studied under fellowship
grants at Pomona and Dartmouth. During the Second
World War, he was employed in the Navy's guided mis-
sile program and since that time has been concerned
with missile development.

AVINGER KELLOGG KIM

The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national

honorary scholastic fraternity, recognized six seniors

this week for outstanding scholastic achievement. Bobby
Avinger, Pete Kellogg, Sung Kyu Kim, Fred Lane, Bob
by Livingston and Bob Morrison accepted invitations
for membership,

Bobby Avinger, of Columbia, S. C. is majoring in
economics. This year he is serving as vice-president of
the senior class and president of Beta Theta Pi. A mem-
ber of the Business-Economics Association, he has been
a member of the yearbook staff, Eumenean Literary
Society and the Freshman Council.

Pete Kellogg, of Winston-Salem, is majoring in psy-
chology and math, and plans .to become a teacher. A
Union Carbide Scholar, he is secretary of ATO social
fraternity. He has served as secretary of Eumenean Lit-
erary Society and feature editor of the DAVIDSONIAN.

Sung Kyu Kim, of Ridgeway, S. C. and Soonchun,
Korea, is working toward his B.S. degree and also plans
to enter the teaching profession. He is a member of Sig-
ma Pi Sigma and Eumenean Literary Society.

Fred Lane, of Winston-Salem, is a pre-med major.
A senior representative on the Student Council, he is
a member of Delta Phi Alpha, Alpha Epsilon Delta,
Scabbard and Blade and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary
fraternities. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social

trity iy ivi student a an ee cpaarved tha McKcither Declares (“ror= antes anil Maa
process would be much rich- the students are mature enough | Others thought that a specif-| ported that, the clans for Fresh-
erif it came from individual realize the necessity for im- tic number of cuts should be | man Parents’ Day, November
ie... |provement and that conduct by e n Cc ess | granted dependent on grades, 14, are in the final stages.
| will improve. om CO i YT |rather than unlimited  cuts.' Registration of parents will be-
“In proposing my system, 1| An evaluation of the Court | Still others felt that a com- gin at 9:00 a.m. in the Student
wish in no way to infer that | of Control opened the meeting. “In retrospect, Homecoming was a most success-|bination of these two would be Union, after which the parents
oxen ae ane ee Milton Gee, and Jobn/ fy] weekend, except for the weather,” IFC President, best pill te: Jee. on ae
illian, representing the Fresh- | ward McKeithen commented UPPERCLASSMEN ONLY tours. Dean Bailey will speak
fact I think that the teacher) man Class, participated in the! : One hundred and fifty-three | on freshmen problems at a pro-
should be hard boiled and not discussion. Green began by | Discussing various aspects of cert and the dances.” lstudents felt that a more lib-!gram in Chambers Auditorium
make any gesture to excuse @ reading Gee's letter to the | the first dance weekend of the “The concert. was very-well (era) cut system should be set at 11:00 a.m. A luncheon for
student from work he missed in! freshmen in the Wildcat Hand- | 1959- 1960 year, MeKeithen sta- » attended. Some people —not (ij) for juniors and seniors on- freshmen and their parents will
taking a cut. |book: Gee pointed out that the /ted both compliments and cri. regular attendants at the |jy Seventy-five of these were be held at 12:00 in the old din-
“I think the fact that nobody |Court helped a number of boys ticisms. dances — were well pleased | for unlimited cuts regardless of ing ‘hall
is satisfied with the present'this year that would “not oth-| “The Tommy Dorsey Band and student participation in | grades Kick-off time for the Lehigh-
system shows that there is|erwise have fit in.” He assert-;did a good job. It was evident future dance weekends should The other 83 were for a sys- Davidson football game is 2:00
something wrong .with it. The|ed that the Court had aided the | that Warren Covington and the profit,” tem using grades as a déter- p.m. The final event will be a
disagreement among faculty | Freshmen in gettimg to know /band went out of their way to. “I was. well pleased.” Me-!minent for granting cuts. Again coffee hour after the game in
members comes in. deciding'each other atid in developing please everyone. The student Keithen continued “with most opinion was divided as to: what the old dinin hall for "the pa-
whether to liberalize it or to!class spirit. Freshman Killian body liked them. I was pleased of the Homecoming displays on; the best. system of this’ type rents. fxeul nistra-
increase its } etriesness.” | (Contiwed On Page Four) with the response to the con (Continued On Page Four) might be.. And again the three my amie
hi B lect F In Fall Ceremonie
j . \ a7 4
n 1 ate elect Fourteen seniors In Fali Ceremonies

MORRISON

LANE LIVINGSTON

fraternity.

Bobby Livingston, of Sebring, Fla., is doing honors
in history. Last spring he served as captain of the Da-
vidson College Bow! team. He is presently chairman of
the Honor Court and has served on the Student Coun-
cil in past years. He was treasurer of the YMCA for
two years.

Bob Morrison, of Columbia, S. C., is majoring in
chemistry. A Chemstrand Scholarship winner, he is
treasurer of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, president of Phi-
lanthropic Literary Society and secretary of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. He has also been a member of
the band and Delta Phi Alpha.

——— Stuart, of Richmond, Va., was recognized
for membership last spring, making seven members at
the present time.

The national society's constitution and the local
chapter’s by-laws are used in determining to whom bids
Shall be extended. All prospective members must satis-
fy all the conditions, which include a definite length of
enrollment at the college in question and a minimum
scholastic average. A chapter may not recognize more
than twelve and a half per cent of a particular class.

In determining averages, there is no differentiation
between three and four hour courses. All are calculated
on the basis of three hours. ROTC courses are not con-
sidered in the Phi Bete averages. f
