THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1959

PAGE FOUR
_ — t
| ' M d
i m provements Begin Philosophers Meet) March 16 Deadline
. Here Tomorrow _For Bell Contest
? The Sixth Annual Con-|, Monday, March 16, 1959,
f Phil hy Stu-|#5 the deadline for manu-
ference tomme y t scripts to be submitted for
we em The remodeling and improvement of the president's oon me in the. Student the Vereen Bell Memorial
: home has begun, according to Mr. R. A. Currie, College Lo ate “OF the College|This year’s award carries
Business Manager. This culminates a series of actions ung h prize of $75.00 for th
. .  {Church. Students from Da-|¢@SM prize of 979.00 tor the
that began with recommendations made by Dr. Cunning- vidson "Emory and Sewan-| Winner.
aa . * . ’ , - .
ham at the end of his term of service as President of nee will read papers on the| The winner, together with
Davidson College. ‘subject of empiricism honorary recognition to other
It was his hope that the pres- A major problem encount- J P . ranking contestants, will be
ent location of the home could ered, one that had concerned After a welcoming address by janction 4 i: chapel in con-
. Dr. Cunningham, was the lack Allan Smyth,|Junction with the annual ad-
- be retained both from a prac: of goace for entertaining | student rman 5 an an dress provided by the Memorial
: tical standpoint and from a guests. The only alternatives | UCTY Davis ° ewanee wen) Fund.
We historic, traditional and senti- to this space problem were Present his essay on “Empiric-| he rules for competition in-
wo We % We mental consideration. He felt te either add to the existing .ism and Reality,” followed by| volve:

house or build a new one. the Davidson paper, “What is
Upon his return to Davidson, | Historical Knowledge?” read by

that a great deal of remodeling
and restoration was needed in

1. Any regularly enrolled
student of Davidson College

Here is an architect’s conception of the completed exterior renovation of Davidson's historic President's home. Work
of a new facade and a first floor wing.

Elections

DAVIDSONIAN FEATURE

Seminar Writing Course
Sharpens Student Wits

By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer
As proof of the effectiveness of the seminar system. .
Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz’ Creative Writing 142 course has
already become a stimulating factor to those seriously
interested in writing. Since this class is primarily con-
cerned with writing and criticism by the members, its
success depends upon the interest of those taking part.

has begun on the addition

chief critic has already read
it and comes prepared to
make comments and criticisms
on the overall effect of the
work as well as any of the
finer points he cares to men-
tion.

The

The class is divided into two
sections of about twelve stu-
dents each, Group One, which
meets on Wednesday afternoon,
is composed of students whose
interests lie mainly along the
line of expository writing. such
as the essay and the argument. is

professor present

(Continued From Page One)

at length by the ‘council at
its Monday night meeting.
The recommendations adopt-
ed by the council and read
at the Tuesday chape! meet-
ing embody many of the
Kuykendall committee recom
mendations.

“This is a modification by
the council of some of the
recommendations submitted by
myself and the committee,”
said the student body presi-
dent. “It was felt by the coun-
cil that this would be the most
workable plan to improve elec-
tions and maintain student en-
thusiasm throughout.”

Asked whether the council
hoped to pass the amendments
in time to effect them by the

coming elections season, Kuyk-

endall replied, “Yes. The elec-

the house. He also thought
necessary a considerable re-
study of the exterior to bring
the home up to the level one

would expect at Davidson Col-
lege.

v Lil H vr
Bross's Diffusion | Shortly after the announce:
ment of the. election of our new
Pulls Down Awar

_president, the Buildings and

; ; Ground Committee of the Trus-
Addison Bross; a Davidson! ,

'senior, has been ‘notified that |

Dr. James C. O'Fisherty, pro-!

fessor of German at Wake For-!
est College, will be the guest
speaker at Tuesday's meeting
of Deutscher Verein.

Dr. and Mrs. O'Flaherty
spent most of this past summer
in Germany, wheré they|
traveled extensively and where
Dr. O'Flaherty did research on
the educational leaders of Ger-

ees initiated action to arrive
. met st a recommendation. Two
he is the recipient of an honor
jaward in a Columbia, South | visited the campus to inspect
_ Art exhibit. Word! the house while President and
was received this week
| Bross was a top winner with his
The University of South Car. G H ry
{Olina and the Columbia Museum erman oncra
'of Art sponsor a yearly “Art T H O'Fi h {
‘Annual” exhibition whose our. 0 Cay a erly
!
tive talent of advanced art stu-
dents in a two-state area. The
ly fudged by a_ professional
critic, was this year reviewed
Art Department of the Univer-
itsity of Florida.
cepted for judging in the exihi-
bition, three were by Davidson

membcrs of the Committec
Carolina,
that’ Mrs, Martin were in Europe.

‘painting, “Diffusion.”
pose is to assess the compara-.
exhibition, which is customari-
by Clinton Adams, head of the

Of thirty-six paintings ac-
students. All Davidson students

President Martin was contacted’ Charles Chastain.
by the Committee and informed
that the Trustees were in the After a coffee break, Hong
process of deciding on action Koo Lee of Emory will read
to provide a satisfactory house! g paper “On Certain Aspects
for the president. At that time ”
President Martin stated, “The of Process Philosophy, and a.
house which has been used as brief discussion will follow, in
the president's home during which the arguments of the pa-
the last three administrations pers may be clarified by ques-
would mect quite ‘satisfactorily tions from the floor. :
the personal requirements of |
my family.” ' At 6:30 p.m., President Grier
Martin will welcome the visit-
ing students and professors at
a dinner in the Union Ball-
room. At 8:00 p.m., a panel dis-
‘cussion with representatives
.from each of the schools will
discuss and criticize the papers,
and the remainder of the eve-
ning will be devoted to in-
formal discussions among the
,; students present. There will be
a business meeting in the
A two-story front portico | Green Room of the Union at
will replace the old front |9:15 Sunday morning.
porch, primarily to properly |

' About thirty or thirty-five
balance tho new addition and ;
also to correct the appear- students from Emory, Sewanee,

ance resulting from different and Agnes Scott are expected
sized front windows. A flag: to attend, along with several
stone terrace wilt be added faculty me mbers. All Davidson
on the south side with en. |Students interested in philoso-
trances from both the recep- phy ere invited to take part in

tion room and dining room. the meetings. .

Next the Committee engaged
Mr. Luther Lashmit, Winston-:
Salem, N. C., architect, to study
the alternatives. Based on his
plan for a one-story addition
which would extend the recep-
tion room and for certain other
changes to the existing house,
the Executive Committee of the
Trustees decided to proceed
along this line.

is eligible to compete.

2. All entries must be the
original work of their re-
spective entrants. end may
fall in any recognized cate-
gory of creative writing: viz.
essay, short story, drama,
poetry, etc.

3. A student may submit
entries in as many different.
categories as he wishes, but
he may submit one entry on-
ly in each category with the
exception of poetry. in
poetry the student may enter
one poem, or a sequence or
group of poems; if he sub--
mits more than one poem, he
must designate them as one
unit and so enter them.

4. All entries must be
typed, double spaced, and
appear on one side of the pa-
per only,

5. Name of the writer must

. be enclosed in an envelope

bearing tho title of the entry
and attached to it. No name
should appear on the manu-
script itself.

6. All entries must reach
some member of the Depart-
ment of English on or before
12:00 noon, Monday, March
16, 1959.

tions procedure as presently de-

Group Two consists of those mainly to guide the thinking ; nts . ) m:iny’s resistance movement
interested mainly in the short of the group and adds criticism signed would not be changed submitting work were accepted. guring the Second World War. [he back porch will be en-
story. poetry, and other forms only if a point has not ‘been by the proposed amendments “Diffusion.” by Bross; ‘Objects closed and the house will bo HI-F i COM PON ENTS
7 ’ ‘ in the first two of the five in Window,” by Morrison Brown Dr. O'Flaherty’s lecture to weather-conditioned,

At Wholesale Net Prices

‘brought out by the members
of thé class. However. he stands
behind the author if the criti-
cism offered is unmerited.

of fiction, and meets on Thurs-
day afternoon. The sessions be-
gin at 1:45 and end at 5:00, with

Deutscher Vercin will concern
his travels and various phases
of his research. including inter-

phases: of elections. Therefore
a period of two weeks lies be-
fore us in which we may make:

and “Plant’) in’ Window" by
Thomss Spence were works
representing Davidson's art de-

Repairs will be made to some
of the floors and the interior

a twenty-minute coffee break at
3:15. .

Students are trained not
only to write, but to criti-
cize as well. Each person
writes a paper end reads it
to the assembled class. How-

In a brief interview with Dr.
Goodykoontz earlier this week,
he stated that although it was
too early to really tell, .“I
think that it is working out bet-
ter than I had expected. This is

the changes.”

The amendments if passed by
a majority student vote will ef-
fect a second major constitu-
tional. change for the 1958-59:
year. Earlier in the school year
ap-

students overwhelmingly

views with some important fig-
ures of Hitler's reign.

partment in the contest.
The award to Bross was one
Ss five $25 honor prizes given

Deutscher Verein will meet
at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday in the
Green Room of the College!
Union. All interested in hear-!
ing what should prove to be a

by the exhibition officials to

students judged’ as displaying

work of outstanding merit.
The Columbia exhibition, still

redecorated. A new roof will
be installed.

The College will do its own
contracting during the con-
struction period with Mr. Grov-
er Meetze handling the pro-

Across From Ivey’s Sth St. Entrance

ever, before the paper is read a good method of teaching not , in progress. will continue until _ - F
to the entire class, another only this type of course, but Proved a council proposal to! atch 6. very entert.ining lecture are Jeet. Mr. Floyd Ballard will act | 196 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.
student designated as the others as well.” establish an Honor Court which, invited to attend. as superintendent of the job.

——________._ will next year assume the judi- —_— oT TOT - vane

Critic Rings No Bells
For “Room Service’

By FRANK NYE
Davidsonian Orama Critic
On the nights of February 12 and 13, the Red and
Black :Masquers presented “Room Service,” a comedy
by John, Murray and Allen Boretz. Ray Atkinson was
the director.

a penniless Broadway produc.
er, Gordon Miller, who is hous-
ing his entire cast at a hotel
managed by his brother-in-law
until he can find a backer for
a play. The manager’s superior,
Gregory Wagner, discovers
that the actors are being
housed with rather uncertain
chances of the -hotel’s being
paid and orders’ Miller to pay
or get out.

This undertaking of the
Masquors was a distinct dis-
appointment after their very
good presentation of Ibsen’s
“Ghosts” in November.

First, the play itself was a
bad choice. It is concerned with

Council Forms New
Nominations Board

Ce, pertinent student comment. | Company.
wee Student Counc bas | & neu somption i no Fa arta the sami | To evan there ate two
g uced. with the arrival o © tee’s work will be used in | grammar schools, one white

establishment of Davidson’s
first Honor Court. The
Council formed a five-man
nominating board whose
function is to compose a
list of student nominees to
be presented to the student
body at election time.

The faculty group, assisting a
student nominating committee
from the council, will consider
potential court members, draw
up a list of candidates from
each rising class, then submit
the list to the student body.

Students will be free to
nominate candidates for the
council from the floor as in
other elections, after the basic
list is presented for student ap-'
proval.

Faculty members invited
to serve with the council on
the nominating committee
are Professors John Evans of .
the Bible Department, Bruce
Jackson and W. G. McGavock
of the Mathematics Depart-
ment, W. 0. Puckett of the
Biology Department, and
Charles Ratliff of the Eco-
nomics Department. Inexperience was the main

The Honor Court, first in the| fault of the other actors. Tony
history of the college, will be|Diaz’ Russian accent, as a form-
elected in the spring and will | er actor turned bellboy, was
take charge of all judicial af-'sometimes too heavy to be un-
fairs of student government | derstood. Alice Hollister and
next fall. Institution of the / Shirley Granger gave adequate
Court was made possible by a! performances as the love-inter-
constitutional amendment vot-'ests, Earl Whatley made the
ed by Davidson students earlier| hotel manager a little too ner-
in the winter. vous to be convincing. |

author, Leo Davis, who has
broken all ties in provincial Os-
wego to be near his play. The
producer and his cohorts spend
the rest of the time in avoid-
ing Wagner until the play can
be staged and in trying to paci-
fy the representative of a pro-
spective backer.

The enly really funny line
in the play is Davis’ scream
of “Ex-Laxi”, The actors
managed to add some suc-
cessful ad libs, however, such
as the name of the backer,
John 8B. Fitztipton, and 2
reforence to the food being
8 Slater product.

The second disappointment
was in the acting, which was
decidedly inferior on the whole
.to that of “Ghosts.”

It was not without its bright
spots, however. George John-
son, as the producer, tried
valiantly to pull the play to-
gether, and was most successful
of the principal actors in por.
traying his role. .

cial functions formerly held by
_the Student Council.

| Buttrick

(Continued From fage One)
cussion on “Don’t Park Here.’

The 1959 services conclude in
enna Friday with the message) sity are town clerk. held by Mr.
“Profit of Proper Participation’

or “How To Be Clobbered But’ iccountant

Good."
During their stays on cam

pus, Drs. Philips and Russell
will be. available for individual

sessions with interested stu

denis in the Guest House.

For the first time, the Y
has established an Evaluation
Committee which will attend
all services and evaluate the
speakers, messages, interest,
attendance and other relevant
aspects of the program. Head-
ed by Charlie Benson, the
committee will welcome

planning next year’s services.

. Also, Mr. Rufus Reid fills the

Davidson

(Continued From Page One)
two fire engines and one po-
lice car. Three men comprise
_ he police foree. which operates
‘around the clock, each man

*; working an eight hour shift.
Appointive positions: in the

é
oe be

",M. W. MeCil, and municipal
and tax collector.
‘held by Mrs. S, A. Thompson.

c. pacity of superinicnuent of
lights. streets. and water.
The city has its own w-

ter plant wich services the
town of Davidson, the ent-
fege, and the town of Corn>
lius. The water comes from

. Cathey’s Creek, located about

| six or seven miles from the

!

|

but —.

city, but this system will soon
be replaced by one operating
from the new lake to be built
between Davidson and Char-

lotte by the Duke Power

and one Negro, but there are

‘They said it couldn't

They said nobody
could do it...

done...

>,

Dr. Buttrick, who opens the no high schools, the students
series, was born in England traveling to North Mecklenburg
and there attended Victoria [High “School in Huntersville.
University and Lancashire In-: Davidson has a public library
dependent Seminary. All his; which is operated by Mecklen-
ministry has been conducted in, burg County.

America, however. The author Davidson has a large num-
of seven books, he is also the! bor of churches within her
general cditor of “The Inter- limits. Besides the Presbyte-
preter’s Bible.” rian Church on the college
campus, there is the Calvary
Presbyterian Church off cam-
pus, a Methodist church, St.
Alban’s Episcopal Church,
and a Baptist Chapel. Along
with these white churches
there are Presbyterian, Meth-
odist, and Baptist Negro
churches in Davidson.

. Dr. Russell has traveled wide- The recently completed Post
‘ly, and numerous magazines Office, owned by the college
land newspapers have carried but leased to the U. S. Gov-
‘his renorts of the trips. At pres- ernment, adds new color and
ent he is serving as pastor of beauty to Main Street, along
the Second Presbyterian Church with the attractive City Hall
in Memphis, Tennessee. . building.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

While enjoying our Famous

PIZZZA and SPAGHETTI

In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. Moorehead at Wilkinson Bivdd.
Charlotte, N. C.

Dr. Philips is pastor of the
Decatur Presbyterian Church in
Decatur, Georgia. In addition!
:to, his pastoral duties, he is a
member of the Board of Trus-
tees of Agnes Scott College,’
Presbyterian College and the,
Presbyterian Home.

EM truly low in tar.

“1M ts kindest to your taste bec

@1989 Liggett & Myors Tobacco Company

ause IM combines the
two essentials of modern smoking,” says TV’s Jack Lescoulie.

LOW TAR: I'M’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers
electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke... makes

MORE TASTE: I¢M’s rich mixture of slow-burning tobaccos brings
you more exciting flavor than any other cigarette.

Live MODERN... CHANGE TO MODERN I'M |
