PAGE TWO ‘

Che Mauidsantan

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

ee  mmmmeemeel

(All Unsigned Editorials oy the Editor).

A Firm Man At The Whee! ,

President Martin’s Thursday chapel
talk was, we believe, a heartening one
—and perhaps a good omen.

The President first revealed his

concern about what has long been a
danger at Davidson: the tendency of
the college to fatten on its own ego.

“It seems to me,’ said Dr. Martin,
“that what might be called a superi-
ority complex is the most danger-
ous thing facing this college in the
years just ahead.”

We agree. And we believe that rec-

 ognizing that danger so forthrightly
is the first big step toward eliminat-
ing the hazard of an overweening self-
satisfaction on the part of this col-
lege.

The president’s remarks regarding
vespers and chapel conduct—and his
announcement of the new faculty
regulations concerning chapel — we
also heard with pleasure, for Dr. Mar-
tin showed on the behalf of the fac-
ulty and administration a new will-
ingness to take a firm stand: to lead.

We are not strong believers in re-
quired religious services, nor do we
feel with the trustees that vespers at
Davidson can be called “vital” in the
life of the college now.

But we believe that if ever some
better alternative to required religion
at Davidson is found. it will not be
rebellion and student discourtesy

which we may think.

We like Dr. Martin’s firmness.

We like the hint—implicit in his
Thursday talk—that the time for mere
brow-furrowing is over, that some
really creative thinking has begun.

At Davidson College, often labelled
a “paternal” institution, the college
fathers‘have too long been Autocrats
of the Breakfast Table.

Now, with Dr. Martin in the presi-
dent’s chair and an alert, concerned
faculty, perhaps their role is chang-
ing. .

We hope so.

—E.S.D.

An Appetizing Innovation

Francis Bacon wrote several hund-
ted years ago, “some books are to be
tasted, others to be swallowed, and
some few to be chewed and digest-
ed...”

In the past, Davidson has survived
on a meager menu of books available
through, the student store. This year,
we moved from the snack bar to the
restaurant status when the college
union opened its enlarged and re-
located book store.

The present book store is the. fruit
of the prolonged labors of several
students, and members of the faculty
and administration. The philosophy
of the book store has changed from
one of profit to one of service. Union
officials have said that profits from

the store will be returned to the stu-
dents through reduced prices on
books.

The DAVIDSONIAN comments
Tom Covington for his untiring effort
in opening and running the store. We
should also like to recognize Charles
Ringe and C. Shaw Smith, who
through their positions of leadership
in union affairs have helped make the
book store possible. To the administ-
ration, which has assumed the fi-
nancial responsibilities of the store,
goes a special word of commendation.
With this step, Davidson has moved
forward in offering the best for its
students.

—T.B.C.

Gone Are the Days

Another tradition bit the dust last
week.

The freshman riot, named so be-
cause the blame for riots was always
laid on the freshmen, has been
shelved in the interest of safety and
the buckling tile on the first floor of
Belk.

The old riots were always fun,—an
aggressive, hard-nosed, ego-fooling
way to blow off steam. But with the
age of organization and specialization
at hand, the riots were getting a little

out of hand. When last year’s coolly
efficient Class of 63 manned the elec-

wical panel and doused the entire
campus in darkness (and disrupted a
reception for a prominent painter in
President Martin’s home) the turning
point had been reached.

Phe Student Council and the Fac-
ulty Executive Committee mean busi-
ness. They are not, as some freshmen
have theorized, simply daring the
class to organize and show some spir-
it. They have set down the law and
they have the guns to enforce it.

But what about the sophomores who
are certain to taunt the Class of ‘64
with allegations of effeminancy and
cowardice? The recommendation of
the council mentions only freshmen
specifically. This is only natural, for
the freshmen are traditionally regard-

ed as the aggressors in any sort of al-
4

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

Assistant Editor . “Tom Colvin
Associate Editors . Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore

David Jordan
Don Saunders
__.. Bill Godwin

Managing Editors

Sports Editor

tercation between the classes. The ex-
ecutive committee. takes a broader
view. In the statement issued by Dean
Bailey, we find that “any student or
gtoup of students” may be punished
for violating the new riot act. This
must include sophomores, juniors and
seniors as well as freshmen.

Who knows? Before long, we may
have the rather charming situation
where a freshman turns an upper-
glassman in for a violation of regulat-

ions.

Memo to IFC

Despite the good intention of the
Inteefraternity Council, the ‘gentle-
man’s agreement” regarding dor-
mitory rushing this year was a failure.

Member of all fraternities over-
stayed their allowed 15-minute room
visitation time. The result: hard
feelings on fraternity court and a
host of freshmen weary of small talk.

We suggest that next year the IFC
have more than a mere agreement
among fraternity members, that the
council devise some way of enforcing
the 15-minute visiting regulation.

Frshman complain about the fre-
quency and lenth of dorm visits indi-
cates that dorm rushing-if over done-
‘may be a hindrance rather than a
help.

—R. M.

B. Millner
Charlie Rowe

Assignments Editor Russ Showalter
Copy Editor —— _.. Jack Hand
Advertising Manager - Olin Nisbet
Circulation Manager Butler Bennett
Assistant Bus, Manager Gene Adcock

Entered as Second Class Matter et the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina,
under Act of March 3, 1879.

Strength In Unity?....

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters Freshmen Get

Thorns ‘Lanier
Membership Chairman
zeta Xi Alpha

Coddington Longstreet
Palmetto Place

Sea Island, Georgia
Dear Coddington,

Just had to drop you a line and tell you how glad 1 am that you decided to come
to Davidson. I think you're absolutely right in deciding to stay in the South, although
giving up on Princeton must have been awfully hard. I think, though, that no ohne
from Wormsley Forest has regretted coming to Davidson. By the way, is old Bulgebutt
still teaching Latin?

1 know Ilt be seeing you at Raleigh in September (if | can see). I’m one od Cynthia
Anne Watlington’s marshalls (I’m taking over-her roomate from Hollins). Cynthia
Anne's a bit of a prig, but the roommate has been known to gure a few.

Hope you see your way clear to give the Zeta ‘Xi’s a couple of good dates, we
Wormsley Forest guys have got to stick together, you know.

See you down at the Rouse,

Thorns

C \ Brother Jim Smiley
Epsilon Upsiton Chi

Davidson College
Joe G. Ullible
Elm St.
Mt. Pleasant, N.C.
Dear Joe, ol’ buddy,

I guess you're wondering why you're getting mail from a guy you never heard of
before, but we'll know each other real well before the second week in September is
over, which as you know, is rush week.

Td like to tell you a little about my fraternity, the Ep Ups. Like I was telling
our Rush Chief, Al Wheel, who is also vice president of the senior class, a former
member of the Beaver Club, a soccer letterman, and a member of O.D.K, we've got
to give these guys a true picture of what we Ep Ups are really like, So I'm going to
lay it on the line, Joe.

We're just a group of plain guys, Joe. We don’t go infor a lot of that mystic
stuff you might hear about, but there is a good, solid thing about us that you just
can’t put your finger on that knits us together if you know what | mean. Like fast
spring’s Queen of Hearts Ball when we all gathered around end sang “The Sweet-
heart Of Ep Up” to our dates. .

1 know you'll have a lot of questions about fraternities and I'll get in touch with
you again at school. I'd really like to see you get in on a good thing, Joe.

See you down at the house,

Jim

The Book Store
Davidson College
Davidson, N.C.
To: Members of the Freshman Class :
Dear Freshmen:

We of the Davidson College Book Store would like to acquaint you with the
opportunities afforded by our little non-profit enterprise.

Our aim is to provide textbooks to all students, regardless of their financial con-
dition. Since we are the only people around here who sell textbooks, we can usually
meet our goal. ‘

You will readily understand that ail wholesale book prices must undergo a slight
mark-up to defray minor operating costs which include paper clips, redecorating the
Alumni Reception Room, and $75,000 annual contribution to the Living Endow-
ment. The manager of the book store generously works without pay, since over the
years, he has amassed a large personal fortune.

The hours during which the Book Store stays open are many and varied. We
will operate tentatively on the schedule below:

Monday through Friday, excepting Tuesday, Thursday, 8:47 am. to 9:03 a.m.
excepting days when the moon is full, wherupon hours will be changed to 11:27 a.m.
to 12:14 p.m.

A special “Dollar Day" will be featured on Saturdays, and the store will be
open til 9.

Yours Truly,
The Book Store

Jonathan Wright
Spiritual Life Counselor
S.S.M.

Priestly Bishop :

Foursquare Pioneer Camp

‘Montreat, N.C.

Dear Priestly,

From the time I met you when I spoke at your Senior High Fellowship last spring,
I've been waiting to welcome you to Davidson College, the teaching arm of the church.
I know you were considering L.LF.E. Bible College but I think for a more mature
spiritual outlook, Davidson is the right cheice.

I'm sure you've been waiting to hear about your college life apart from your
studies. You will be happy to know we heave a Y.M.C.A. here that is the very breath
of cotlege life, a fine active Westministering Fellowship, a Canterbury Club, MS.F.,
of course, my group, the Seekers of Spiritual Maturity. The College also hes fraterni-
ties.

I'm looking forward to discussing things with you at the Pre-College Conclave
there in Montreat next month. The key topic, “Conversions on Campus,” is a meaning-
ful one don't you think?

John

by Millner;

* |have been embarrassed by the

Saturday, September 17, 1960

PRESIDENT MARTIN

The
Editor's
Guest

The Davidsenian ‘.vited President Martin to initiete its
Editor's Guest column for the 1960-61 schoo! term. Throughout
the year this space will contain the thoughts of various men,
some connected with the college and some not, on various sub-
jects. Anyone wishing to write himself or to suggest a columnist
should contact the editor.

Included in this year’s student body of 965 men are
255 freshmen who were selected from almost 1,070
applicants of a quality superior to any group we have
had in the past. This means that Davidson’s Class of
1964 is probably equal or superior to the freshman class
of any other men’s college in the South, both in
academic ability and in the qualities of leadership and

|| participation which we require.

The desire of so many outstanding young men to
attend Davidson is a tribute to the college and to the
record of its alumni, faculty, and students. This ‘‘good

‘| will” is one of the greatest assets the college has, and the

students who are attracted by it will, through their
records, contribute to the reputation of the college and

| to the continued and increased success of the institution.

The process of achieving this highly desirable
result has necessitated our declining the applicat-
ions of more than 500 boys, many of whom were
capable of doing satisfactory academic work at
Davidson. The decision to reject an application is of
course a very serious matter.

The Admissions Committee spends a great deal of
time and effort in trying to make decisions which will be
best for the students involved and best for the entire pro-
gram of the college. The “standards” for admission to
Davidson have improved each year, not because of actions
by the Administrations Committee, but by the competi-
tion for admission on the part of an increasing number
of better qualified candidates.

Since. Davidson is an educational institution it is
appropriate that the applicant's academic qualifications
be given first consideration. But College Board scores
and high school grades are by no means the only require-
ments for admission. The committee gives consider-
ration to other evidence of the student’s capacity to
contribute to the life of the college, including character,
persinality, and participation and leadership in student
government, athletics, music, art, journalism, debating.
scouting, church organizations and similar activities.
Forty applicants with verbal College Board scores over
600 and 75 applicants with mathematics scores of over.
600 were rejected becausé they did not have other
desired qualifications

Special consideration is given to applicants who are

sons of alumni or candidates for the ministry, and

they will be admitted before other candidates with
similar abilities and records. In spite of this we find

it necessary to decline a number of these applicants

each year when their qualifications are markedly

below those of other applicants.

While the tide of applicants has created many prob-
lems for the college and for the applicants and their
families, it has strengthened the institution by making
possible a student body which is more interested and
better prepared for college work. This has enabled us te
maintain higher standards of academic performance and
has made possible tremendous reduction in the number
of “flunk outs.”

For example, 245 students from last year’s freshman
class returned as sophomores this year. In addition, the
program has helped to assure the admission to graduate
schools of practically all of the increasing number of
Davidson students who wish to take some kind of grad-
uate work. The high quality of the student body is one
of the most effective arguments we have in trying to
persuade promising teachers to join our faculty.

We are adding personnel and facilities to improve the
handling of the admissions program which has become
more and more complex each year. We will be grateful
for your assistance and your understanding.

Students Applaud
New Chapel Policy

The majority of Davidson stu. students themselves can handle.
dents will fall in willingly be- Secondly, it is believed faculty
hind the college’s new vespers'or trustee action would cause
and chapel pelicy, according to' deep resentment and rebellion.
the consensus of random per- Finally there is a fear the fac-
sons questioned by the David-'ulty would go overboard and
sonian this week. carry the new policy to the ex-

President D. Grier Martin’s , treme.
talk in chapel Thursday evoked; Alden Millar spoke for many
new administration for his lead- | {n saying the root of the prob-
ership and program, However, |/em is in programs themselves.
many still have grave doubts|“No solution will be complete
of the success he will meet. All| until they are improved,” he
those interviewed doubted the |Contends. Others maintained
problam would be solved im-|that no threat or action could
mediately and felt it would be|@ccomplish what superior pro-
a matter of just how far the , Sams could achieve singularly.
administration plans to go. | GREAT CHALLENGE

OVER AMBITIOUS, Student Council President

“If they intend to stop even Henry Shue regards the student
reading of mail, books and pap-|®°°°mbly programs as one of
ers, they will need 962 moni-| tae steatest challenges the cam-
tors,” one commented. “It’s a|PUS government will face this
worthy goal, but over ambiti.|%¢3!: He is optimistic that abun-
ous,” another said. dant resources are available in

“The majority of students the student body itself to pro

vide stimulating programs.

“To me personally,” he said.
“ono of the most optimistic
things is what underlies this ac-
‘tion—a new and unified single
ness of purpose among faculty_
and administration in working
to put life in some areas of col-
lege life which have had de-
cteasing meaningfulness in re-
cent years.

“Although some of the mea-
sures may seem harsh, at this
point it is more effective to
take sweeping positive steps
than to move with hesitation.
 wrethe they admit it or not,
the vast majority of students

will have greater respect for
the faculty, administration and
Student Council.”

conduct and are grateful Mar-
tin is taking this stand,” said
Scott Lacy. “I believe just a
minority causes most of the
trouble anyway.”

STUDENT CONTROL

The manner of carrying out
the new position remains the
issue of greatest concern. Those
interviewed felt the correction
and discipline should remain in
the hands of the student body.
Over half, however, felt the
faculty would ‘eventually have
to intervene.

Student supervision was pre-
ferred for several different rea-
sons. First, they see this as a
student problem and one which

