‘CATS HOST CITADEL
IN HOME OPENER
(See Page Three)

VOL. XLIX

MRS. JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, mother of Democratic Presidential candidate, John F. Kennedy,

er Dautdsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30. 1960

FraternityMen Request
\Reversal Of Soph Rush

COURT OF CONTROL
SOLUTION PROPOSED
(See Page Two)

NUMBR THREE

In Dail

meeting, scheduled for Oct.

The first proposal is to have
the beginning date. of the Fall
Semester set each year by the
Committee on Academic Sched

uling including the Registrar
‘This date will be selected so
|that. the necessary activities,

visited Davidson Thursday noon on her. whirl-wind tour of North Carolina. She is shown here such as classes. exams and holi

with Mrs. C. W. Tillett, national committee woman of the Democratic Party and Dean Frontis
W. Johnston, before speaking fo an audience of students and local citizens. (Photo by Wells)

Martin Initiat

By KNOX ASERNETHY
Davidsonian Statt Writer

On Monday, President D. Grier Martin appeared in assembly to conduct a Gules: |

es
Of Informal Questioning

days, can be’ fitted inte the col
lege calendar

OPENING INFLEXIBLE

4 ; At the present the opening

CS GIO | date is inflexible (the first Mon

|day before the Wednesday near

jest Sept. 15) and the closing

|date has to come on a weekend

| because of commencement ex-

jercises, Therefore if any change

;is made in the length of the

school year. it is necessary to
change it by a whole week.

The new proposal would al-

tion and answer session with the student body. This was part of an effort to better iow the length of the school

the communication between the student body and the administration.

Dr. Martin prefaced the dis- than for us to go to whatever
@ussion with few remarks distance may be necessary to
about the new rules concerning Sure that it will be the kind

of. progr; re y ined.”
conduct in assembly, chapel and program ‘we Dave outlined

vespers. FACULTY DETERMINED
President’ Martin stated, “It He emphasized the faculty’s

seems to me that this program determination take any

eannet work in any other way, necessary action in regard to

enforcing the new rulings. Dr.
Y Financial Drive | Martin went on to welcome stu-

deni action in carrying out this
program.
When Student Body President
Bob (R. H.} Moore, YMCA/Henry Shue had opened the
vice-president, announced this seg for questions, Senior Tim
week that the Y financial drive | Ray asked, “Is it the job of the
will begin on Tuesday night, | Christian college to have doc.
October 4. The drive comple- | trinal requirements to assure
tion date has been set for Sun- the teaching of nothing non.
day night, October 9. Christian or is its responsibility
Mocre also announced that/to provide a diversity of opin-
the Y compieted its Freshmen > jons?”
Interest Drive this week with) President Martin replied by
136° ireshmen expressing a in-! first pointing to’ the gradual
terest in working with ¥ apan iiberalization of the faculty oath

a

to

sored activities this year. |in recent years.
This tctal represents 53% of
the freshmen class as compared) VARIETY OF VIEWPOINTS
to ' 44 ef the upperclassmen’ He continued, “! do not feel
who expressed last spring an in- that. the requirements that
tere vorking wi Y. Davidson has and employs keep
ti yoar : us from. getting a large variety
Meore, commenti at ] eints about religion and
dr nid; “We are very 4 yout t broad = differen
ed wiit @ Ru in religion,”
Wii : rest in. } “I ‘say. to you that it
with ¥. We} I the ritht-of a college found
I { nurposes for w h
i Ww founded -to have
t ane to “assur
f w! hal) be mer
ti ( t tivn.”
bu ¢ i thon
int od person an: sked. what i eation. Une
ity to vy in ie. pl ; eult ii f bhomore. rush,
activity vhich “it

ad. wottld. harm

THE MAD WOMAN OF CHAILLOT hed a sucessful irs

year to be changed by any de-

the weak fraternities and help [sired number of days simply

the strong. j by changing the opening date.

The second. proposal is to

TWO SIDES have the number of class days

Dr. Martin pointed out that|of the current semester reduc-
the action on sophomore rush

4 ed by two. This means that the
was taken by the faculty, and 5 : :
that he was therefore not quali-
fied to answer the question.
However he did comment, “TI
feel that it is a matter which
definitely has two full sides,
and I believe that serious con-
sideration should be given to

Young Republicans
Shape Local Group

Over 60 students erowded in-
to the College Union Green

(Committee O:

By MAC PLAXICO *

Davidsonian Staff Writer

_ The Faculty Committee on Academic Scheduling plans to present the fol- | IFC
jlowing three proposals to the faculty for consideration and vote at the next faculty

4,

first semester exam period will
begin.two days earlier and end
two sooner than now
scheduled Second — semester
would then begin on Friday,
January 27th. This change is
suggested so that two more days
can be added to the spring ex
am period, thus avoiding the
congestion that. occurred in the
exam period last. spring

PROPOSED SCHEDULE

The third proposal to
change the schedule: of classes
as proposed by Dean Johnston
last spring. This is the propos
ed schedule:

days is

1s

MWF—Time TTS
1st—8:00-8:50 Ist
2nd—9:00-9:50 2nd
CHAPEL —10:00-10:50 3rd
4th—11:00-11:50 4th
5th—12:00-12:50 5th
LUNCH—12:50 LUNCH

6th—1240-2:30 6th

Freshmen, K

The arrival of the Four
concert will climax a series
weekend of November 18th
other dance weekend.

the problems that will be creat-|Room Tuesday night to form a
ed by this action as well as the|Davidson Young Republican
problems which will be|Club. The meeting was called
eliminated.” ‘to “organize interest in the
Jim Fouche asked why the | Nixon-Lodge ticket.”
college bookstore under-orders! Tom Colvin, who presided at
books rather than over-ordering ,the meeting until officers were
them, to which Dr. Martin re-|elected, presented Kerneth
plied that he certainly agreed | Brotherton, a member of the|
that the bookstore should be a’ Mecklenburg County Republican
Party . Executive Committee.
Brotherton, a Davidson graduate
of the class of- 1952, speke brief-

service to the students.
However, he pointed out that

the ¢ost of books has risen ; ‘
greatly ‘in the past few years ly about the upcoming election,
and en that. the twolvn per stressing particularly the state

offices

Brotherton, in turn, introduc: ;
led David Morton, president of |
lthe North Carolina Federation |

cent profit from the bookstore |
goes into a scholarsiup iuad.

COURT OF CONTROL
The final question: was a re lof Young Republicans. Morton, |

quest’ by John Cooley. for an who is. also running for secre- |

(Continued On Page Four) lewd 8 oe roe
eans, discussed the ‘organiza
an nae nee ron, role and. operation of the |
|. D. G. Martin, Bob Stone, || young Republican club
| and Stefan. Young are the Bob. Davis was elecfed pre
fidstes sill. in the race lent. Other. off Y ected are
acancy on the Hon- Bob. MeFartlai vice-president
er Court. In a run-off Thurs- hob Bradford ecretars
‘ay after chasel, two ether |! Jon Robinson. treasure
cantende were eliminated. Ty
Tre f | run-o?? will be held resery
| ‘onnay after student assem. | nsf
iy. rN
: . ones n }
) i I

held until 6:30 p.1
will be ovened
public. The rally

shortly after 7:30 p. m

time they

Sophs Edge

| successful

final
son

The Kingston Trio, a footbalt
game, a beauty contest, and the
Interfraternity Council sponsor-
ed concert will be the featured
attractions of the weekend.

The Four Freshmen, who
will give their concert from
8:00 to 9:30 on the 19th, were
“discovered” in Dayton, Ohio,
by bandleader Stan Kenton.

Since that time Ross and Don
Barbour, Bob Flanigan, and Ken
Errair have teamed up to be-
come one of the most popular
Singing groups ‘in America to
day. Their refreshing approach
to ballads, mild) humor, anc
modern jazz has proven very
at the trumerous
club, concert, and jazz. festival
have

appearances they made

Another Dance Weeken

fers Change Martin: New Proposal
y Class Schedule Shows “Great Merit”

By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Associate Editor
Three upperclassmen presented a proposed set of
pledge training regulations for next year to the
Interfraternity Council during its Monday night meeting.

itation is. left to the discre-
tion of the pledge.

the
of the re

According to proposal
the

s to show the Faculty and Ad

(TT Seminars, etc. as now)
7th—2:40-3:30 7th

purpose ‘gulations

Freshmen should be encour-

8th—3:40-3:30 (labs as now) : _, aged to participate in extra-
8th (labs as now) ministration’ that. students are curricular activities though
Commenting on the above mature eneugh to solve their they cannot be required to do
proposals, Dr. J. T. Drake.) own problems without the en- so. (under this, for example,
Chairman of the Committee | forcement of Sophomore Rush.” pledges may not be required to
said that the purpose of the attend intramural athletic

; ‘ The following IFC pledge
first proposal is to avoid in the ” F . events.)
future, any congestion at exam! t'aining regulations were drawn

When conflicts in time arise

’ r ake » ‘ k b Phillips, Fr: Man-
— Dr _— stated that ae dy 8 i rt — an: between fraternity duties and

’ wi) . 2COP sell, a ansto Epes ree
Une hpi of we second. is | st ae i : : : * sins need for study or participation
to deal with the problem of con | ito ee re . ge in extra-curricular activities,
gestion for the eoming spring in any manner not in 1h iatter shall take precedence
exam period keeping with the level of *

a f over pledge duties.
Concerning whether these| ™@turity supposedly attained

These regulations are not
to be suspended for pre-in-
itiation activities, except that
the limit on time may be ex-
tended somewhat to include

proposals would be accepted or by any college student.

not by the faculty, Dr. Drake! This shall be taken to pro
said that the first one probably | hibit not only actual hazing and
would be, but that he expected | harassment of pledges, but also
| such practices as requiring stud

much discussion and _ possible | : :
disagreement on the second| 9% laundry running, shoe-shin- a isomnaced carried out
proposal. It is doubtful, Dr.|i"s, car-washing, or other per- °Y "De ‘raternilies.

Regulation and enforcement
will have. to be worked out by
the IFC as being better able to
satisfy all concerned. However,
it should include such elements
as strict fines, approval of pro-
posed pledge training pro-
grams, and some sort of in
spection system.

In a DAVIDSONIAN inter-
view on Wednesday, President
D. Grier Martin said, “I feel
that the proposal has a great
deal ef merit. It is my belief
that the Faculty will give ser-
ious consideration to any pro-
gram of this kind which gives
promise of achieving desirable
goals.

“Sophomore Rush is de-
finite,“ continued Dr, Martin,

“unless some concrete pro-

(Continued On Page Four)

Drake thinks, that the third S°M@l services; forced eating;
proposal will be accepted. ealisthenics; and any other simi-
; +... | lar activities which the IFC may
prohibit as the situation may
. | arise
There will be a limit of three
* | hours per week on the time any
| fraternity may require of a
bd bd be | pledge, and no time may. be
r10 onc) Q reauirea between the hours of
| 10:30 P.M. and 7:30 A.M. This
}time limit will include pledge
|meetings and count-offs or call-
| downs, but will not include re-
, quired periods for academic
| Study.
& Cranks,” in cooperation with, Also, since it is felt that
ee ! pledges will naturatly wish
the IFC, will sponsor a beauty} and be expected fo visit bro-
contest. thers in their rooms, this time
The Four Freshmen's concert! will not be included under
on Saturday night will then end | the limit so long as the mat-
the planned weekend | ter of choosing times for vis-

Freshmen at Davidson for a
of events which will give the
the semblance of being an-

Sleeping African Giant
Awakening, Says Mocre

By BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Stafi Writer

The Capitol recording stars |
currently have twelve albums |
on the market, of which the |
featuring five instru. |
ments hasbeen most popular.

They have appeared on TY |
frequently and were the
*Rich and

series

im
movie Young
Pretty.’

he _Kingstan. 4 por ilar |

if the Charlotte Col
ht. Saturday |
will play: its }
of the sea-|
“Quips|
|

|

Freshen;

y |
int eriagay oni |
ternoon Davidson
football

with

gana
Furmar

and

“The ‘sleeping giant of the centtiries is awake. and the rest of. the world had
better take it seriously,’ Bob Moore remarked as he reflected on his summer ‘in
Africa

rheir t ! 1 in: the. vil- ‘Dahor He. addi hat -the
Last prin | R. H : ; one sic —
Moore, -was of 180
ha ‘
yn in the - Unit ' {
ha to v r fi
hip ‘by. Ope { r} wh
Af: fo |
Africa. Cr ! Afri i peo
HOT rotit } l I
York which has Ligic r i
political 4 LITTLE ROC
ESTABLISH COMMUNICATION
The .pu a
i» to t iit Mat {t I t \
communcati det { ' i 1
per p! of Af i { th | ne
ple of the Ui States: Ti : " ‘ hat -the
unique proj ha been: er ACh DY Vnvor Ameri wi
ve ee IRC Sets Tuesday ‘
lorsed editorially by over forty # work improve race rela
major newspaper including the j For Firs} Gathering tions
“New York Times” and the} tS When asked about the Com
“Washington Post ‘Look”’ The. International Reletions ) munist threat in Africa, Moore

Morrison Ballroom and the old dining hell in Chambers. Presented by the Vagabonds.
school’s newest dramatic group, the performance fe
major parts. Another performance of the play will be given

1

night .

s
3

ny

‘early lead by taking first place
(a the 109 yard dash, the hurdle

1800 yard relay, the Sophomores

- | Magazine, “Readers
Gourt Lifts Gontrois 28s
i tensive reports

The annual Freshmen-Sophomore Day held

Wednesday afternoon ended

Freshmen-Sophomore Day is

fi held each year by the Court of had no trouble taking both age they = hy ingots

; events. e Crossroaders split up into

pepe to determine whether In the last event, volleyball,| fourteen groups and left by

Freshmen regulations are to be the Freshmen easily won the | plane for their two months in

| lifted or not, depending upon first match of the three game} Africa. They. worked in’ ten

ithe Freshmen victory in the series, but the Sophomores} countries from Senegal to the

field events of the day. came back with a 15-11 win in | Cameroons.

7 In the six scheduled events the second match. FRENCH COLONY

| Freshmen trackmen built-up an. The Frosh got off to a 7-0} Moore’s country of concen-

relay, and a second and third
in the 50 yard dash.
But in the tug-of-war and the

for the Sophomores, but contrary to usual procedure
owing a Sophomore: victory, the Court of Control im-
mediately terminated all Freshmen regulations.

showed formidable strength and

lead
a Freshmen victory. in volley-
ball and the field day seemed
assured, but Sophomores came
out of the match with a 17-15
overtime victory.

Digest,” and! Club will hoid its first meeting |} who was in nine African coun

re doing ex-) of the year Tuesday night, Oct-} trie replied, “The. African

n the project, ober 4, in: the private dining | countries, with possibly twa ex-

this winter room of the College Union. | ceptions, will not go over to the

last

P . ; These young men and women,
in a come-from-behind vict-

who were labeled ‘“Crossroad-
ers” by the press, underwent a
week of intensive briefing in
New York before leaving. by
chartered planes for Europe.

tration was Dahomey, a former
French colony on the Gulf of
Guinea, He spent five weeks in
Dahomey, with four weeks of
this time spent in the small

in the third match and

Everyone: interested in interna
tional affairs is urged. to ine |
present, especially the exchange |

change student from India, is}

to speak on his country in gen- |

eral and will answer. questions |
from the floor i
The purpose of the IRC is
to study and discuss. intern:
tional affairs in an honest ef

fort to clarify views on present |

and in the community. br. W.

group.

coastal village of Ogonnekanme.

PaGae

a very

Communist block
The Africans
be. a pawn in

want to
East-West

don't
the

students. | battle. They will welcome eco-

There will bea brief. busi- F ymic help from both sides, but
ness meeting for the: election|they are not going let either
of officers. Kookie Kapoor, ex-| side get the upper hand in their

countries. From. an objective
tundpoint I believe their policy
of ‘positive neutrality’ is: wise.”
FORMER THOUGHTS

“Before this summer,” Moore
“I thought of Africa as
backward country, and
thought the African was a pri-

world problems and to contri-|mitive man, Africa still has un-
bute to a better understanding | der-developed areas but amaz-
of world affairs on the campus | ing progress has been made in’
economics
P. Minter is the sponsor of this} world prestige

education. It’s
is increasing
(Continued On Page Four)

and
