FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1960

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

For Spider

The Davidson track team defeated the Richmond

Thinelads Dig

Burial

Spiders 804% to 59% at

Richmond yesterday, as Wildcat depth proved too much for the host Southern
Conference foe. The victory was the fourth in six starts for the successful thin-
clads. Each team took eight first places, but Davidson won 21 second. and third
places to the Spiders’ ten.

Citadel Clubs
Wildcats Tomorrow

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson College golf team will play host to a mediocre Citadel team this

Saturday at the beautiful Mid-Pines Course in Southern Pines, N. C.. The ’Cats,
seeking their third straight win, will be making their first trip to Mid-Pines this sea-
son for their first encounter with The Citadel}

Next Tuesday the ’Cats travel In the News-Piedmont Relays

to VPI. The Gobblers, on the
strength of a comparative win
over Wake Forest, have to be

at Furman a week ago, the ’Cats
posted 26 points to finish fifth
(ahead of Tennessee and South

Carolina) in a field of 11 teams.
Florida State took first place.
Huie broke his own record in

rated on par with the Wildcats.
The High Point Relays, to be
held next Saturday at High

the pole vault with a 12 feet
6 inches jump and tied for first.
Laughlin established a new
Davidson College record and
News-Piedmont Relay record
with a distance of 44 feet 7
inches in the hop-step-jump.

Point, have been rescheduled
to Davidson.

In the meet yesterday, reli-
able speedster Ed Kizer took
first in the 100-yard dash with a
10.1 time. Mike Laughlin was
third.

Kizer, Roger Beebe, Bobby
Thompson and Chester Alexan-
der posted a 3:29.9 to take the
mile relay.

The mile was won by David
Gilmour — 4:41.6. Beebe and
Alexander took second and
third in the 440.

‘Cat Diamond Squad
Plays Wake Tuesday

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's baseballers travel to Wake Forest next
Tuesday to meet what Coach Stevens calls ‘‘an excellent
\team.” Sporting a fine won-loss record and carrying one

Pat Currie took second in'the'top ACC hurler, Wake will be tough for the young
120-yard high hurdles and the'’Cats. However, it is doubtful whether their pitching
220-yard low hurdles. The 'Cats; ace, Bob Plemmons, will see action in this non-conference

swept the broad jump as Hugh tilt.
Murray leaped 21 feet 3% | Belmont Abbey played a sin-
inches. Laughlin was second | gle game with the Wildcats here
and John Chiles third. today.

John Huie and Bill Coffey | Furman is here for a twin-
took second places in the pole ; bill Saturday, the 30th. On Fur-
vault and the 880, respectively.'man, Coach Stevens comment.

Kizer posted a 22.0 time to,ed, “They have a good team,
place second in the 220. Andy/better than last year, and will
Boggs won the discus with a'be tough.”

out 14 batters. He allowed four
walks in the game, while scat-
tering seven Davidson hits.

“Thumper” Harris was the
only 'Cat to garner more than
one hit. First-sacker Harris had
two singles in his five trips to
the plate. ;

Harry Cline's double was

te ae eases eames

THE MOMENT AFTER—Davidson’s

Orr
takes his stride as the ball disappears from + ip a
and over thé net. In a practice session, Doug, No. 1
man for Coach Keesler, readies himself for the big
UNC match here this afternoon. (Photo by Gene Wells.)

Lagging Netters

The ‘Cats should be highly |
favored in the match, after two}
consecutive victories over Fur-

WILDCAT OF WEEK

man, a team The Citadel edged
by % point.

FURMAN FALTERS

In the two Furman matches,
Davidson downed the Paladins
at Greenville last Friday by the
score of 14%-12%, and follow-
ed up the victory at Charlotte
on Monday by whipping the
visitors 174%-D%.

In the match at Furman,
which is a longer course than
the Charlotte one, Sut Alexan-
der’s even-par 72 paced the

Stanley didn’t play.
WILDCATS’ BEST

Then, at Charlotte on Mon-
day, Tom Johnson was medalist
of the day as he stroked a two-

‘Cats to victory despite the fact |
that number one man Verner! pox

Nickles’ Throw
Best In Loop

stated that he got everything
behind it.

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

THE DAVIDSONIAN Stu explained that the newly-
developed Dick Held Javelin
played an important part in his

record-breaking toss.
BEST THROW

Coach Whittle without hesi-
tation called Stu's throw “the
best throw of any in the South-
© ern Conference this year.”
Coach Whittle went on to say
that Stu now averages over 170’

takes

great pride in naming Stuart
Nickles its first “Wildcat of the
Last Wednesday when

\Week"

in

under-par 68, the best score for |
the ‘Cats thus far. Johnson, who!

per throw and that if he can
throw 196’ in the Southern Con-

heave of 124 feet 8 inches. Last Saturday's game against

Davidson made a clean sweep West Virginia saw Davidson's
of the javelin throw — Stuart! five-game winning streak smoth-
Nickles, Boggs and Jennings ered. The Mountaineers pound-

Davidson's only extra base blow.

Coach Stevens has replaced
Jerry Cole behind the plate
with sophomore Harry Cline.

Host UNC Today

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

This afternoon the Davidson College tennis team
played host to the strong North Carolina netters in an
attempt to avenge an earlier 9-0 defeat at Chapel Hill
on April 6.

On Tuesday the Wildcats suf- looked good in all previous ap-
fered a 7-2 setback at the hands pearances

has done consistently well for
the squad this year, must have
felt from the start that it was
“his” day as he fired an eagle
on the second hole.

Verner Stanley and Eb Le-

|S

ference Meet he should take
first place easily.

Coach Whittle enthusiastical-
ly said, “Stuart is a very good
performer and is one of our
= most consistent performers.”

Master contributed to the win jam
as both fired 71's. Coach Tom!
Scott stated that the play of
LeMaster is “very pleasing since
we're going to need:a good

PREP CAREER

Stu
javelin

been throwing the
his. sophomore

has
since

Snider. ed Dee Green for ten hits, in-
Bill Eckbert won the two-jcluding a home run by Bill
mile event with a 10:34 time.!Smith, and two doubles.
Laughlin claimed the hop-step-| Tom Shafer, West Virginia
jump with a distance of 41 feet|/hurler, was very effective
8 inches. against the Wildcats, striking

cE. +S LE SI EAN

A LOOK AT...

SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

What's Good For Newport .. .

Coach Charlie Driesell (see page one) comes to us
with the highest of qualifications. He’s young, enthu-
siastic—and has coached two high school teams to 97
basketball victories in the last five years.

The going has not always been easy, either. Drie-
sell took over the reins of Newport News at a prime
time; the team had won 21 straight. And it proceeded
to rack up 36 more consecutive wins under Driesell un-
til stopped in a game which ended in double overtime.

But his first high school team—Granby—presented
the coach with a wholly different situation, much like
Davidson’s. Granby, the previous year 1954 while Drie-
sell was in his senior year at Duke, had plunged to the
bottom with a 4-17 record.

Under Driesell’s direction the cagers made a come-
back and went on:to compile a two-year mark of 33 and 9.

This is what we hope and feel he can do for the
Wildcats.

To be sure, D
doesn’t play in a school conference. It will take
hard work—lots of jt—but Driesell has already com-
mitted both and the team to long and rugged
practice. He believes we need more scholarships, but
stresses that wise employment of the present ones is
more important.

“Careful recruiting makes the difference,” he ‘says.

As a starting measure Driesell and Scott have lop-
ped off Louisville and Tennessee from the 1960-61 sched-
ule to bring the ’Cats back to reality.

The new coach will have the material to work with:
Shinn, Markee, Bussell, Jarman, Millar, Harris, Nuckolls,
Martin, Moore, Cannon and Evans.

The potential of next season’s squad speaks well for
a winning season. But, judging from the past when such
seasons were predicted in vain, we hope for an even
break.

Coaches Driesell and Hunt are both young and

should coordinate-successfully. So we listen when Drie- |

sell says Davidson “can win in the Southern Confer-
ence.”

it’s A Small World .. .

For Coach Scott the appointment of Driesell rep-
resents a long-delayed triumph. As head coach of the
North Carolina Tarheels back in the late 40’s, Scott talked
with Driesell, then a high school senior, about enrolling
at UNC to play basketball for him. Scott had him on the
line for a while, but Duke offered Driesell a full scholar-
ship, too good to turn down,

“We weren't giving very many scholarships in the
40's,” said Scott.

Driesell was picked this week from a list of more
than 40 applicants, some of them head high school
coaches in California, Missouri, Indiana and Pennsyl-

vania.
Coach Dole’s Loss .. .

Sophomore end John Packer will not play for the} dents’ 85 points was good
Wildcats this fall. He must undergo an operation to|third place.
relieve a pinched nerve in his upper spine. Steer prinnantale tn velar.
Boner Department . . . sui fin Shane Senile sane
goofed week. we're . Track. star/apiece; , ‘the Kappa
£4, Kizer was —o i euaieg Pion | against Fur-|the Sig Eps and) the Indepen-
SN an ebederd Gab. “He was first,” said Pete|dents—75 tallies; and sixth
Whittle. And we retract. place, the Pikas end the Phi

idson is not a high school and,

Cole will be moved to the out-
field to alternate with Cecil
Holcomb in Cline’s old position.
“Moose” Showalter may also see
outfield action.

The Frosh defeated South
High 9-1 in their last game.

Tom Hamilton started on the
mound for the Wildkittens and
allowed the only run in the
first inning. Bill Jarman came
in to pitch the last three inn-
ings for the Frosh.

Davidson pounded South
pitching for eleven hits. Hamil-
ton and first-sacker Rick Low-
ery each had three, including a
homer by both.

This was the Freshman team’s
initial win, following three
losses.

of a strong Duke team here at
Davidson.
Davidson's two victories were
by its number 5 and 6 singles
men as Jim Hamilton won by a
margin of 63, 7-5, and Stephan
Young edged his opponent 63,
64.
MIAMI AWES

Last Friday the Davidson net-
ters were beaten by a Miami
team that awed all who were
on hand to see by its power and
versatility. For the Hurricanes
this marked the 65th appear-
ance on the courts without a
defeat.

Tuesday the Wildcat fresh-
man tennis team will host My-
ers Park in a return engage-

‘ment. The junior Wildcats have

Especially to be noted is the

fine play of Bob Austell, Phil|/fourth man to go with Stanley,

Johnson, and Alexander at the |

Kraemer, Bill Backlund, and}
Fred Lopp. Southern Conference — tourna-
After North Carolina, the ment in May.

Davidson team will have only | TOURNEY HERE

one more scheduled match with |

William and Mary at Williams-| Speaking of the tournament,
burg on May 4 before the Con-| Davidson will play host to the,

ference Meet there on May 5,°ther Southern Conference |

|
|
‘i
i

Stuart Nickles

6, and 7. members on May 3-4 at the Mid- |
Coach Keesler declined to, Pines Course. ; \the Davidson Wildcats met the
comment on the Conference; Coach Scott indicated that the, Furman cinder men in a thrill-

Meet except to say that the|team has been pointing toward | ing track meet, Stu topped the
"Cats would “face some pretty | the toufnament all season. Said | old schoo! record of 180’ 9” by
stiff competition, especially Scott: “I scheduled a lot of; hurling the javelin 196° 14"
from The Citadel and George tough teams so that we could

Washington.” be ready for the tournament,; When asked how he did it,

The Wildcats have finished, Which is naturally the payoff.” | Stu remarked modestly, “I was
just plain lucky.” He called his

second to George Washington | *
WE'RE NOT WEAK toss ‘‘a throw of a lifetime,” and

and the I-F trophy.

The SAE’s, far behind, sit in
the second slot with 706 points.
The third place KA'’s have 687
points.

Intramural tennis opens next
| Tuesday with the doubles elimi-
nation. Fraternities must have
their entries in Coach Whittle’s
office by 3:30 p.m. Monday.

SOFTBALL RESULTS
| In softball Tuesday, the ATO’s
(ranked seventh in total points)
hurled themselves to a 21-12
slam over the Phi Delts. Mean-
while, the Pi Kapps came up
with a 23-13 victory over the
Independents.

The SAE’s mastered the Sig

bolted the KA’s 21-7. Rounding
out the day, the Kappa Sigs beat
the Pikas 14-10.

Wednesday, the Sigma Nus
jeased past the Sig Eps in a tight

| game 17-16. Another close one

13-11.
| The ATO’s took their second

7-4. The SAE’s bowed to. the In-

denpendents 9-7.
VOLLEYBALL LEADERS
Volleyball ended last week.

in point totals—160. Runners-up

tallies.
The SAE’s, the KA’s and the

Handball point-totals were
posted this week showing the

saw the Fijis beat the Betas| s

The ATO’s led the round-ballers

were the Phi Delts with 140) %

-F Softball Starts

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Intramural sports resumed Tuesday with softball. The Phi Delts hold strong | Chariotte.
in overall totals—867 points—with only softball and tennis standing between them’

Gams—58 points each.
In handball: The Phi Delts—

78; the SAE’s—66; the Betas 40; the Pi Kapps—35 and the a good chance to be medalist of
and the Sigma Chis—60; the Sigma Nus—30.

for the past three years. |

> He weut on to point out that)
ithe tcam’s 7-6 won-lost record |
“does not indicate any weak-
ness on our part, but rather the
istrength of our opponents.”
Two of these opponents have
jbeen Atlantic Coast Conference |
| powerhouses North Carolina and
{Wake Forest, whom the ‘Cats
will meet again on April 26 in

AT

Scott concluded that the

|team’s chances at the tourna.
ATO’s—55; the Phi Gams—50; ment are “very good,” and that
the Pikas—45; the Kappa Sigs— “either Stanley or Johnson has

— year in high school. During his

high school career, he averaged
a consistent 175°. Since he en-
tered Davidson College, he has
placed fourth in the Southern
Conference Meet both his fresh-
man and junior years.

Stu credits his skill with the
javelin to practicing about an
hour a day on his form.

Stu’ throws the javelin be-
cause he enjoys it, and he is
looking forward to the remain-
ing track meets and the big
Southern Conference Meet. He
doesn’t expect to top his toss
of 196' 1%”, but he hopes to
be able to out throw his remain-
ing opponents.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT. WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

THE

{the tournament.” ‘

A new idea in smoking...

Salem refreshes your taste

Eps 23:7, and the Sigma Chis| >

victory by setting back the KA’s| #f

e@ menthol! fresh
e rich tobacco taste

e most modern filter

Ste m3

Created by HK. J. Reynolds Tebecco Compan

Smoking was never like this before! Salem refreshes your taste just as a glorious
Spring morning refreshes you. To rich tobacco taste, Salem adds a surprise softness

that gives smoking new ease
filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes.

and comfort. Yes, through Salem's pure-white, modern
Smoke refreshed . . . smoke Salem!

Take a Puff... It’s Springtime
