FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1969

§ ALOOK AT...

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Booters Hit Carolina Today

By Bill Godwin

Our Crying Towel—Wet

AS THE DAVIDSONIAN interviewed Coach Bill Dole |
this week, a little black cocker spaniel wandered into
his office. One of its eyes was bloody red, as if the cocker
had been clawed by a cat. It was very appropriate, we
thought, for across the desk sat a man the picture of
complete dejection. How else should a coach feel when
his team has lost 12 of its last 14 games and has no hope
for the future?

THOUGH HIS words

refused defeat, his manner was

unmistakable. The Richmond game was his final humilia-
tion. Homecoming. Davidson was struggling to climb out
ol the conference cellar, which it shared with the Spiders.

Now, with VPI, Lehig
a repeat

h and Furman left on our schedule,
of last year’s showing is all but inevitable.

Put Up Or Shut Up

IT’S TIME—it’s been time for a long while—for Dav-
idson to put up or shut up in the Southern Conference.
Ana the Wildcats haven’t said anything on the football
field for more than two years.

DAVIDSON'S — Eddie Crutchfield (72) and Lew Zirkle (86) converge on
D’Arrigo (28) during Richmond game. Other ‘Cats shown are Grant McRorie (21) and Bob
Cordle (42).—(Photo by Wells).

COACH DOLE is an administrator. He doesn’t like |

to talk about our sterile scholarship aid, That’s in the
area of policy, he says, and that’s a matter for Davidson's
Trustees to pass on.

WE HOPE that many of the Trustees witnessed Sat-
urday’s fiasco. We only wish they held a meeting in Oc-
tober, when the stench of defeat is still potent. Davidson
MUST offer more and better football scholarships—or
retire from the Southern Conference.

The Facts Of Life

IF THE TRUSTEES do nothing else. they at least can |
admit the facts of life as they pertain to Davidson right |
now. Like the Negro mother, they can tell the Wildcats,
“Son, I hate to say this, but you have no hope of suc-
ceeding in football. You are different from the other

For three quarters the ’Cat

Southern Conference schools. Your money will not buy
the pretty things that theirs can. But, Son, remember
this: Win or lose, it’s how you play the game that counts.”

RICHMOND, on the other hand, was whooping it up
Saturday. The Spiders were looking ahead to next year,
when the first fruits of a new scholarship program come
up from the freshman team. A spokesman said, ‘‘Now
we'll play four conference games each year for eligibil-
ity. The others will be with the big schools—for money.”

A Three-Edged Sword

IT WAS an unproductive Homecoming weekend for
the Wildcats from all sides. The harriers lost their first
meet of the season on Friday to Furman. Then on Tues-
day the soccer team was blanked by Pfeiffer. 1-0, for its
first defeat. Pfeiffer this year is subsidizing its booters.

BUT THE cross country squad redeemed both losses
Tuesday with double wins over Richmond and Pfeiffer.
Sterling Martin and Co. took eight of the first nine places.

|defense fought off the Spider
\thrusts with their backs to the
|wall while waiting for a cold
loffense to get underway.
| But the broke
open in a wooly fourth quarter
a Richmond team
to turn

game wide

which saw
}eapitalize on “breaks”
‘the contest into a rout as 4,000
Homecoming fans watched,
Davidson scored first on a
freak play that saw Grant Mc-
Rorie pick up a Spider fum-
ble and scoot 94 yards for

| the score.
Earl Stoudt returned a punt

|80 yards for a touchdown early
lin the second quarter and kick-

Wildcat of the Week

Grant McRorie Shows
Offense How To Score

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The annual homecoming football game had just begun at Davidson College, and
4000 tense fans sat on the edge of their seats as the rugged Spiders from the Uni-

versity of Richmond threatene

Taking the snap from center
at the six-yard line, Spider
quarterback Mel Rideout hand-

And in the Richmond game,
he and the other defensive half-
backs, Duncan Morton and Bob

ed off to his left halfback, who
knifed his way toward the goal

Cordle, blanketed potential pass
receivers to hold Rideout to

to ram the ball across the Wildcats’ goal.

erfordton, N. C. He lettered last |
season as a sophomore, and his
play this season has drawn
much praise from Coach Dole.
His favorite sport besides foot-

ball is golf.

| IMAC hopes to begin a two-|

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

ed the extra point to put Rich-
mond ahead to stay.

Richmond added one score in
the third quarter and then
came the deluge of 22 points
in that nightmarish last quarter
for the Wildeats

Throughout the the
Wildcat offense failed to move
the ball, netting only 102 yards
the An
ment into the single wing failed
to work and the pressure fell
to the stalwart defensive unit

if there could be a bright
spot in this defeat, it was the
fine play of the Wildcat de-
fensive secondary of Bob Cor-
die, Grant McRorie, and Dun-
can Morton, who held Spider
quarterback, Mel Rideout, the
conference’s leading passer,
| to only 56 yards through the
air with four completions in
18 attempts.
| But in the final analysis
| Richmond’s two fine halfbacks, |
Frank D’Arrigo and Earl Stou-
|dt, just could not be contained
| by the undermanned 'Cat line.
| The Spiders’ 266 rushing
|yards tell the story.
| Davidson’s Wildcats will en-
| joy an open date this weekend
jin preparation .for their jour-

Sigs Take

Tenth Win

IF flickerball entered
final stages this week with the |

contest

entire. game, experi-

runner Frank

Homecoming Game: It
Was Sad, Friend, Sad

Saturday, amid the revelry of the Davidson Homecoming, the Wildcat football
team succumbed to the superior manpower of a strong Richmond team and fell by
a score of 35 to 6, in a game that offered few bright spots for Davidson fans.

ney to Blacksburg, Va. next
Saturday to face the conference
leader, V.P.L,,

finds our

in a game which
Cats completely out-
manned against the big, strong

PAGE.THREE

Davidson Takes On Naval Base
fter Losing, 1-0, To Pfeiffer

By 3ILLY BARRON
Davidsonian Sports Writer
The charges of Coach Paul Marrotte take the field for a home match against a
relatively unknown team from Norfolk next Friday. Davidson knows very little about
the Naval Base and will go into the match at 2:30 p.m. with no special preparation
for the visitors.

Today the ‘Cat booters trav- with minutes to go when
eled to ( H for the 1D s penalized for ille-
Ss D Pr Men nanaaak’ : eee he hands in a pile-
sant this tror I Ringe Pieitter
Hee I | y Pfeif
Rate Well * the mar
. : i TOUGH GOING
in Nation : . pated play at
! expe 1 E detensive-
Davidson Coll 1 {ey { | p s¢
all the FACTS SCARCE Ct
from Sigma Delta Psi, natior On N Marrott
honorary athletic fraternity \ hi I think we
The local chapter last year nthe thi i a Nav } ed oO mie but we
Finished third with 6,110.2. Base and its squad is made up weren't ready for Pfeiffer after
poimts in a national team scor-, primarily f former college the long weekend. We were
ing contest behind Chico | players. They will probably hurt by not being able to use
State College and Springfield field a strong, aggressive team.’ our fast-break offense — effec-
College Dance weekend proved too tively
Placed second in the mem- much for the Wildeats as they “However, we did have sev-
bership contest with 11 new dropped a thrilling 1-0 decision eral excellent scoring opportu-
Psi's to Pfeiffer in  Misenheimer nities which we failed to util-

ize. Laughlin, Keiter and Claude
Finney all played outstanding

And had three men on the
top ten individual high scoring

Tuesday
The loss snapped their five-

totals —Jim Hamilton, fourth,|match winning streak and games for Davidson.

pee 803.8 points; Dave Warden, | crushed high hopes of a perfect ‘The winning marker was
| Seventh, 712.6; and John Huie, | slate. only the third goal scored
| tenth, 686.7. These three men,/ The game was deadlocked against Finney all season.”

| famed respectively in track,

| football and basketball, are of |
| the class of 1959.
| Warden, captain of the 1959 |
Davidson grid team, also was |
high man nationally in the foot: |
ball punt with a boot of 186
| feet

Newest members of the
Davidson chapter include Alex
Porter, John Chiles, Tom
Wright, Bill Deane, Jim Hamil-
ton, John Harris, Bob Thomp-
son, Larry Kinney, Lew Zirkle,
Bruce Usher and Steve Arthur,

Frosh Close Out
Football Season

varsity team next September.

Help should come especially
from these quarterback-
halfback Benny 184,
who will be heard in the South-

The Davidson freshman foot-
ball team played host to Win-
gate Junior College this after- men:
noon, bearing a record of 0-3. Coxton,

It was the final game of the

and fast Gobblers, who. have Chapter President Deane said season for the Wildkittens, who. ern Conference before ‘he’s
thus far this season leveled this week Davidson would be oe :
William & Mary, Virginia, Wake ‘trying for the membership lost to The Citadel, 19-12; Fur- through
Forest,. and West. Virginia plaque this year man. 42-14: and Gardner-Webb, Halfbacks Lyle Blalock, an in-
17-10 exhaustible runner, and: David
: & On the basis of three games Lopp, fastest man on the squad.
arriers Grab )! 2°25 2s
trying to -imitate their big lb. bulldozer who can be count-
brothers (1-4 ed on for three yards on any
bod The ‘Kittens have a world of given. play
even Tal talent, man tor man; but have Earl Cole, pin-point passer at
not shown they can’ work ef- quarterback
fectively ads.a unit (pending re Center. Britt Smith, a real
By JOHN SPRATT sults of today’s game), aecord- team man, and Guard Russell
: _ Davidsonian Sports Writer ing to Coach Tom Stevens Walls, a fighter
Meeting their first defeat Friday at the hands of Fur-/ Coach Dole is looking for. Ends Fred MeGuirt and
man, the Wildcat cross country team reversed the tables; ward to their debuts on the George McEver

Tuesday in a tri-meet with

| ing two more victories to their hefty win column.

Next Wednesday the harriers
will encounter VMI in Lexing
ton for the last regular meet
of the season, leaving of course,
the state and conference meets.

Looking ahead to the VMI
meet, Coach Heath Whittle
labels it with a prediction of
“real interesting.”

“They have a better unit, are
better balanced and stay closer
together. Still, we have one or
two boys with better times than
the VMI club.”

VMI has been defeated only
by West Virginia.

NO ALIBIS

Commenting on the Furman
defeat, Whittle makes no alibis.
“Our boys did well, but they

had the better team that day.”

Kappa Sigs atop the standings. ais Maes easier ie.

Pfeiffer and Richmond, add-

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

style, outclassing Pfeiffer 16-71
and Richmond 16-60.

Pacing the pack with an ex-
ceptional effort, Wildcat Ster- W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
ling Martin was clocked at 22: CHARLOTTE
15, one of the best times for WHILE ENJOYING
the four-mile track in recent THE BEST

years at Davidson.
HAZARDOUS

Despite the seasonal success
of the Wildcats, the step up to |
the state and conference meets |
will be great and hazardous.

Whittle predicts a third at}

Raleigh for the state meet, re- |
minding, “There is always Duke
and Carolina.’
As for the conference <a

}

|
|

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

=

November 7, Whittle speaks
warily of West Virginia, all

line, only to have the ball spurt
from his arms into the arms of

a player wearing a red and
white jersey, number 21.

94 YARDS

Number 21, the defensive
right halfback, gathered the ©
ball snugly into his arms, cut
for the sideline, and dashed 94
yards for a touchdown that put ;
the ’Cats into the lead for the
first time since the opening °
game with Catawba,

Also for the first time in a
long time, a real display of ~~
school spirit was seen in the
Richardson Field Stadium as
hundreds of Davidson students
and their dates stood cheering. |

All of this was possible Sat- |
urday afternoon because of |
pumber 21—Grant McRorie,
who earns this week's title of.
“Wildcat of the Week.”

Grant has done more than —
just intercept a fumble for this
honor, however. In the last
three games, the ‘Cats have
scored 3 touchdowns — Grant
has two of these to lead team
scoring.

four out: of eighteen comple-
tions — his worst performance
of the season.

LIKES GOLF

Grant is a junior from Ruth-

113; and Phi Delt 34, Pika 3.

The ironic thing about it, he The ten Oe 4 iil
has done this scoring while — compiled through Wednes-
playing defense! day's games:

His other touchdown came in Kappa Sig _... 100 1.000
the Citadel game, after ——77~ — Phi Delt 101 909
clock iad run out When TONGUE PROJECTING—Grant: McRorie’s face shows intense [SAE 72.778
he intercepted a Bulldog pass determination which has made him leading scorer—12 points ‘Beta . oe oe
and ran it back 35 yards. —on the Wildcat football team. a le

Happiest of the fans who day swimming tournament Wed-
watched Grant's performance nesday.
Saturday was Miss Bobbie Wal-' This week’s big game was |

ker, who was his date for home- played. between the league-
coming and who received jeading Kappa Sigs and the |
Grant's Kappa Sigma pin that challenging Phi Gams. |
night. | Prior to this game the |
Kappa Sigs had a 49-point |

average per game. |

The Gams, led by quarter-

backs Dave Wilson and Jim

Smith, held the Sigs scoreless
in the first half after having
scored six points themselves.

However, the Sigs roared
back in the second half for two
touchdowns and a 13-6 victory.
Jim Woods streaked downfield
for the first tally. The second
one came on an_ intercepted
pass. Jerry Cole picked it off,

relaying to Ed _ Kizer, who
scored.
Other games played during

lthe period from last Thursday
ito this Wednesday resulted as
| follows: |
SAE 19, Phi Gam 13; Phi|
|Delt 26, SPE 19; KA 19, Sigma |
‘Nu 0; ATO 12, Sigma Chi 6; |
/Pika 12, Ind. 6; Phi Delt 32, |
‘Pi Kapp 12.

Also, SAE 14, KA 18, SPE)
25, Sigma Chi 13; ATO 20, Sig- |
ma Nu 0; Beta 19, Phi Gam}

| proved his reeord by at least

man, and VMI, but believes op- |
timistically that a seeond place |
may be possible, “I’m not |
sure,” he says. “I'll be able to}
say more after the VMI meet.” |

one minute in the meet with
Davidson,

Whatever the setback of the
loss, the ‘Cats rebounded in

a

&

AY
CONNIE

ariety Club
Charities are
bringing my
entire orches-
tra and chorus
to Charlotte
Coliseum No-
vember 7th,
1960, The show
will be done in |
ster eophonic
sound and our
engineers will
completely “re-
sound” the

Coliseum with
over $30,000.00

fin electronic
equipment.

CHARLOTTE COLISEUM
NOV. 7, 1960—8:30 P.M.

Tickets Now Available at Belk’s, Coliseum Box Office, National Hat Shop,
it $2.50 $3.00

HL-Fi Center in Mall . . . Seats: $2.00, and ei9.8
Send Mail Orders and check to Variety Club Charities, P. ©. Box 10306,
Chariotte 1, N.C,

This Ad Sponsored By J. Francis White

Know the answer

COPYRIGHT 1998 THE COCA-COL

ato

18 A REGISTERED TRADE MARE

"cow

What's an eight-letter word which
reminds you of good taste, sparkle, lift?
The answer’s easy—Coca-Cola of
course. No puzzle about why it’s so
popular .. . no other sparkling drink
gives you so much good taste, so

much satisfaction. Yes, when you're
looking for refreshment,

the answer's always Coke!

BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Campany by

The Coca Cola Bottling Company of Concord, N. C.
