.

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1960

SIDE LINES
ON SPORTS

By B. MILLNER

By BILL GODWIN

Davidsonian Sports Writer

Captain John Scott de-
scribed the 1960 Catfish
this week as “Davidson's
best swimming team ever.”

His statement came on the
heels of the Southern Confer-
ence meet last weekend in
Charleston, S. C,

The meet saw the Wildcats
stretch all expectations and
finish a strong second behind
!VMI. Scores were: VMI 108,
Davidson-—67.5, VPI—64, Cita-
del—58, W & M—40, and West
Virginia—20. ,

MIGHT HAVE TIED
“ And,”

> fC 2

HATS OFF—To the best swimming team Davidson
has ever had . . . to a lightly regarded sophomore,
Stephan Young, who won Davidson's only first place
. . . to the veterans, Scott and Smith and Hellicr who
finished their careers with a bang .. .. to Hudgins and
Branch, who always managed to come through . . . to
French and MacDonald and all the rest who made this
swimming team the hottest article on the Davidson
athletic market in years . . . and to Dwight Shoe, a
football coach who didn’t even know how to keep a
swim meet scorebook at the start of the season, but
who threatened, cussed and cajoled his horses with a
stop watch and a wry grin... they all did a “helluva
jo aM

a *

the last relay Saturday night,
we would have been tied for
first place with VMI.”

Coach Dudley Jenson of Wil-
liam and Mary said, “In the
nine years I’ve coached, this
meet was the closest.”

In the individual first place
deparatment, Stephan Young
was the Wildcats’ only repre-
sentative. The sturdy sopho-
more swam the 100-yd. breast-
stroke in 1:10.9.

CAME FROM BEHIND
This is a far cry from Jast year, when Dole had only} Davidson appeared to be

one back in the fold at the first of April. down and out after opening day
trials on Thursday, but came

on strong in, the semi-finals and
finals, passing VPI.

COACH BILL DOLE: If I get one more boy to add
to the one we’ve already got, I'll have the two best
freshman quarterbacks I’ve had since I’ve been here.
Both of them are terrific passers.”

Coach Dole is having a little more success than |
usual in his recruiting this year. He has gotten 28 boys
past the admissions committee and seven of them have
accepted scholarships. “I think we’ve got some real
good boys,” he said. “We've got four lineman and three
backs. One of them is a quarterback. We'll be satisfied
if we get seven or eight more acceptances.”

THE SNOW has brought spring practice to a virtual
standstill. Dole had a portion of the soccer field cleared
early this week, but the fresh snow on Wednesday
filled the area back up. Davidson is limited by an
NCAA regulation to 20 spring workouts during a 36-
day period. Although The Citadel has finished spring
workouts, most schools in North and South Carolina
have just started. Dole says that the NCAA may make
an exception and extend. the workout period. Davidson
is due 12 more practice sessions and the time is fast
running out.

. By STEVE CLARK

DANNY HOUSE will, in all probability, be running] Davidsonion Sports Writer

at halfback next fall. “We’ve got some good ends,” ;

Dole reasons, “and Danny has the size and speed to| Once again, the I-F Track

make a good halfback. And of course we can stilljmeet was postponed due to

throw to him. Danny is agreeable, too.” Dole also plans|the bad weather, and re-

to shift center Harold Bynum to guard and move Tomjscheduled for the first

Simpson from tackle to center. Thursday when the weather
is good.

Meanwhile, the SAE’s were
increasing their basketball lead
in the competitive race for the
title. Also, the Sig Eps sewed
up the handball title by de-
feating all other teams this
year.

Last Thursday, the Phi Gams
downed the Pi Kapps, and the
Sigma Chis beat the Kappa Sigs
in games not included in last
week’s paper.

Basketball got underway this
week on Tuesday as the Pi
Kapps whipped the Pikas, 58-26.
Quinton Boyd paced the win-
ners with 26, while Keith Fra-
ser had 13 for the losers.

The SAE’s remained unde-
feated by trouncing the ATO's,

. e s * Sd s

IF DAVIDSON were offered a blank check and told
to fill in the amount necessary to recruit a top-flight
baasketball team. from anywhere in the country, would
the college accept the offer?

No.

According to Dr. Martin any contributions offered
by alumni must be earmarked toward a general or united |
fund, a fixed proportion of which goes to the athletic
subsidization program. Thus, if an alumnus offered to
foot the bill for a number of football and basketball
grants, he would be told that most of his money would
have to be earmarked to academic scholarships.

We are told (but we can’t verify it) that a wealthy
Charlotte alumnus offered to “buy” Davidson a basket-
ball team several years ago. His offer reputedly was
refused by Dr. Cunningham, who was president at that

time.
s
We feel that this arrangement is a little ridiculous. Wearn Dosts High

We realize that wholesale Rares between he, aca: T

demic people and the athletic boosters wou iu e

college's fund-raising procedure. On the other hand, Score ni ourney

we don’t see why an alumnus, who has been subje .

to no pressure or persuasion, shouldn't be allowed to away: st virginia wee

say where his own money is to go. | Conference Rifle Champion-
ship last Saturday. The
Mountaineers slated 1430

Netters Slate points, ¢ tournament rec
Tough Schedule

high man in the meet,
By D. G. MARTIN

chalked up a 291.
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcats slipped into
sixth place, but Joe Wearn, with

Ted Keesler will make his debut as D
coach this season against one of the toughest slates of

a 285 tally, ranked in the top
opponents that Davidson has ever faced.

jten marksmen. Sgt. McCurry
sad, “We didn’t place too high,
avidson’s tennis|but I’m pretty proud of the
squad.”
VPI, Citadel, VMI, anad Fur-

The season will open Satur- comers Bob Huffaker, Hight man tre ed witae pew.
day, March 19, against not-so- Redmond and Lee Cory. Mary, and Furman, leaving the
tough Pfeiffer. But from then lll these and several others wit dcats with a winning 13-10
on, it’s hard and heavy for the who may be in contention for season mark.
‘Cats. Such tennis powers as spots on the team later in the|"~:
Miami, UL.N.C., ' Presbyterian, season went through long fall} Tomorrow and March 19, the
Georgia Tech, and Duke will practice and have been working} Wildcats meet various corbi-
grace the schedule. Highly re- off and on—with the weather—/nations of army, navy, and air-
garded conference foes like since the beginning of the sec-|force represented schools in the
William and Mary, George ond semester. NC State ROTC Invitational
Washington, and Furman will Coach Keesler admitted
round out the schedule. ' that the schedule jmioht be

These nents. will face pretty rough for his. young
an inexperienced team in team. But he noted thet the
Davidson. The young team team would “get good experi-

een

explained Coach !
Dwight Shoe, “if we had won j

Sig Eps, SAE’s Still
Boast Clean Records

%ter’s 16 led the Pi Kapps.

tournament at Chapel Hill. “We
expect to win,” said McCurry.
will be moutded around three ence and profit by it.”
teturning lettermen, Doug

“Several medals will be
awarded, and we'll probably
bring bome a pretty good

Orr, Herry Broome, and Fin-
ley Lee.
The team will carry six men.
The three other places are still
something of a question mark.
Senior Jim Hemilton and
Sophomore Andy Sherrill sre
likely to grab places in the
top six. They should ‘gét «
@cqd fight ‘for these spots
from Ritk Atlerhold, Stephan
Young, Bob Snead, and new:

“It’s good to maintain a good
schedule all the time, he con-
tinued. “It may put a good deal
of pressure on us this year, but

bunch, since the boys are real
hot for this tournament. Thoy‘re
going to make up for last Sat-
urdoy. Last year, UNC (Navy)
topped eight schools, while the

I. think the schedule is about Wildcats clinched second place.
what Davidson tennis is poten-|" P.

tially able to match,” Even though Davidson will

The Freshman team led byllose Wearn, a real loss, the
Bobby Austell, Bill Backlund, | prospects lodk good next year.
and Fred Lopp will ‘open a/McCurry sees real improvement
seven match schedule againstjin the Freshmen and in Skip
Belton High School on Mar¢h{Goodwin, a junior, and expects
18. “a better rounded team.” !

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The meet was an appropriate

for Davidson.

The tankmen compiled an 8-2
record, best in swimming’s nine-
year history here, and broke or
tied every school record.

in the 100-yd. freestyle.

Also placing high for the:
Wildcats were Smitty Smith, |
who took seconds in the 100-yd. |
backstroke and the 200.yd.
backstroke; and Tom French,
finishing third in both those |
events Tom Hudgins had three |
fourths. in the 500 meters, the ‘
440 and the 220.

Looking back over the season,
Shoe said he was “pleased but
not satisfied.” And that means
he’s looking for an undefeated
team next season.

SHOE’S FIRST YEAR

This is Shoe’s first year as
swimming coach. He replaced
George Tucker.

The three losses to gradua-
tion this spring will be felt.
; Captain John Scott and_ co-
captains Bill Hellier and Smit-
ty Smith will be missing.

Scott this winter broke breast-
stroke and butterfly records.
while Smith smashed the back-
stroke record. Bill Hellier was
a freestyle gem.

A core of sophomores remain,
however, in addition to juniors
Tom Hadgins, -Jack Rose and
George Gabel. Sophs_ Barry
Branch, Stephen Young, Bob
McDonald and Tom French will
give Coach Shoe something to,
build on.

STEPHAN YOUNG

BRANCH TIES RECORD

“We swept the boards,” said
Shoe. Almost clean, too. Only
the 50 yd. freestyle record set
in 1956 by Tommy Rivers re-
mains, and it was tied (24.1) in
the conference meet by Barry
Branch.

53-32. Doug Orr with 16 and Don Killian scored 22 as the
Lee Cory with 15 led the lea- Sigma Chis downed the Pikas,
gue leaders attack. 64-42.

Thursday, the Phi Delts clob-

. ‘Yhe Sigma Nus roiled t i
ma Nus © their yored the Sig Eps, 70-22, as

first win of the season by nip- Bobby Davis hit 22

ping the Sig Eps, 39-33.
The Phi Gams rolled over the
The Betas edged ‘the Kappa aTQ’s, 56-46, and moved into
Sigs, 35-33, as Bill Wallace hit third place.

11. Carl Hunt's 14 helped the
Hight Redmond’s 17 led the Betas clip the Pikas, 43-34.
Kas as they rushed by the Phi The Sigma Chis displayed

‘ . beautiful teamwork in upend-
Bob McAllister and Lou Zir- ing the KA’s, 51-45.
kle both scored 14 as the Phi ;
. Jim Bloomfield and Tee Red-
sean defeated the Sigma Chis, ding led the Independents over
‘ the Kappa Sigs in their final
On Wednesday, the KA's bid for the title.

whipped the Pi Kapps, 82-63, :

as five of their men hit double Sinne Fi Kanes sushed ton

figures, the best of these. being "4 bucketed 18

Jerry Shelton’s 22. Quinton °” ° .
‘No handball

Boyd’s 17 and Aubrey Lancas- results were
posted.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

t

From the Ancient
Weavers of India, the i
land of the Maharaja, |
we bring for your = *
summer enjoyment
coats of handwoven
vegetable dyed Madras

$29.95 - $39.95

RUSH WILSON Lid.

team finished a lean year
with a fifth place in the
Southern Conference tourn-
ament here last weekend.

men. in the low weights, took
first place with 74 points, and
VMI.
points. West Virginia (53), Cita-
del
rounded out the field.

PAGE THREE

er

Plucky Catfish Rally To Finish

Young Paces Come-From-Behind
Surge In Conference Swim Meet

That effort brought Branch a| im
postlude to a sparkling season second place. He finished third a

we

eB a
‘ i
~h n ‘d
JIM ALEXANDER manvevers for position against Metzinger of West Virginia

in his Southern Conference match here last Saturday. (Davidsonian Photo by
Abernathy)

Matmen Soundly Beaten

In Loop Tourney Here

3-0. In his next match, after
an overtime, a split decision
declared Cunniff (Citadel) the
winner. Had this decision
been different Alexander
could possibly have copped
the title. Thompson lost his

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

his fourth championship in
the 137 Ib.
tn ghe 147 Ib. class Cat Mil-
ton Gee was a disappoint.
ment, losing to Piercy of
V.P.1, in his match. Kane of
‘V.M.I. won the title by pin-
first match but salvaged @ ning Lester of West Virginia.
third place via a consolation At 157 Ibs. Daniels of V.MI.
win. Butch LeDoyen had @ pinned Johnston of West Vir-
fourth place in the 157 Ib. ginia for the title.
weight class. In the 167 Ib. class Hoblit.
In the 123 ll, class, Bob zell (West Virginia) took a
Bowman of V.P.1. repeated as close SA decision over Bart-
champ defeating West Vir- lett of V.M.L
ginia’s Staton 5-2. Sanders of V.PJ. defeated
Brandon Glover of V.P.I. won Cunniff of the Citadel in the
his fourth championship in the 177 lb. championship match.
130 Ib. class by pinning each. Heavyweight Bazzolli of West
of his three opponents. Virginia decisioned Vishneski
Joe Heller (V.P.I.) also won of V.P.I. 5-3 for the.title.

Davidson's wrestling

V.PI., led by tremendous

was second with 61

(28) and -Davidson (12)

For the Cats, Jim Alexan-
der and Cliff Thompson took
third places in the 177 and
167 Ib. classes. In Alexander's:
first match he defeated the
number-one seeded man —
Metzinger of West Virginio,

Do You Think for Yourself 7?

(DIG THIS QUIZ AND SEE IF YOU STRIKE PAY DIRT*)

“You can’t teach an old dog new tricks’’ means
(A) better teach him old ones; (B) it’s hard to get
mental ‘agility out of a rheumatic mind; (C) let’s
face it— Pop likes to do the Charleston,

aDsOcgOo

men and women who think for them-
selves usually smoke Viceroy. They've
studied the published: filter facts; they
know only Viceroy has a thinking man’s
filter. And Viceroy has rich, full tobacco
flavor—a smoking man’s taste. Change
to Viceroy today!

When your roommate
borrows your clothes
without asking, do you
(A) charge him rent? (B)
get a roommate who
isn’t your size? (C) hide
your best clothes?

ADnetocO

*If you checked (B) on three out of four of

When a girl you're with these questions— you think for yourself!

puts on lipstick in public,
do you (A) tell her to
stop? (B) refuse to be
annoyed? (C) wonder if
the stuff's kissproof?

aDsodco

If you were advising a
friend on how to pick a
filter cigarette, would you
say, (A) “Pick the one
with the strongest taste.”
(B) ‘Get the facts, pal—
then judge for yourself.”
(C) “Pick the one that
claims the most.”

AndseocOH

‘It’s a wise smoker who depends on his Femiilar
own judgment, not opinions of others,

in his choice of cigarettes. That is why

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows —

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER—A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

©1000, Rrown @ Willtameen Tobecce Corp,

