FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1960

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Netters Hit Pfeiffer in First Match

SIDE LINES A@™\' Tom Scott
ON oPORTS ‘= Resigns

By B. MILLNER e * i! estes: enthilels me conw-
SPRING SPORTS PREVIEW

m |lating today about the successor
, to Dr. Tom Scott, who was re-

TENNIS — Davidson has been working out since ling his post as head basketball
February but was forced underground to the handball | coach.
courts two weeks ago. Freshman coach Ted Keesler has it was reported that Scott
a green squad; most of the load will fall to Finley Lee| would resign “to devote full
and Doug Orr, Southern Conference doubles champs. _ | time to his duties as athletic di-

In the conference, it’s G. W. again by a good mar- pee
gin. Jim Tarr, one of the best in the south returns,
along with three other top lettermen. The Citadel and
the Wildcats should fight it out for the runner-up
slot.

TRACK—Another winning season for the old fox,
Heath Whittle. With the probable cancellation of The
Citadel meet, Whittle may finish with a 6-1 record— quest.

Furman is just about a sure loss. Bill Eckbert and Dave! The story of his resignation
Gilmour take over where Angus McBride left off in the @ppeared this morning in The

ce

Sites

ported this morning as resign- | ~

|for the NCAA finals and could
| not be reached for comment to-
| day.

| College officials said that
| Scott’s intentions were known
at least two weeks ago, but had
[not been released by his re-

*
o
oa

| Scott was in San Francisco ;

.
$

pe

ee
|
|
i

cistances . . . 14 lettermen return. ‘Charlotte Observer.

The Citadel, VMI, and Furman will be at each BP crags ot cy =
other’s throats for the conference championship. Top |Dean Frontis Johnston declined
individual stars are Jim Pugh (Citadel) who is a three- | to i possible successor.
way conference champion in the dashes and low | He told THE DAVIDSONIAN,
hurdles; Jim Martin and Charlie Phillips of Furman | however, that several men were

in the 880 and mile; Rivers and Davis of The Citadel "°W being considered by the
in the 440 and discus. college. Any announcements, he

| seid, would come through the
BASEBALL — Only one experienced pitcher, Dee President's Office.

Green, returns. Green pitched all four of the games! Speculation had it that two
Davidson won last year, including two in one day. Three|™@" — Freshman Coach Joe
sophs may help. The ’Cats will be a good hitting team, | Co ol a. page
with an air-tight middle manned by Weasel Killiam. get the job.

Harold Bynum, Russ Cotton, Richmond Rucker, Jerry Wiggins, an All - American
Cole, Killian and Green are returning lettermen. The

TRACKMEN Brownie Thurman, Roger Beebe and Chester Alexander worked hard for
the 440-yard event before the snow fell. The y‘ll count heavily as the Wildcats try to equal
last year’s 6-2 record.

Hall-Romping Trackmen
Boast Big Letter Core

ene, flavored with foul weather, described the Davidson track team this
week.

The Wildcats held practice sessions within the confines of Chambers Building.
Reason? Inclement weather plus the fact that Chambers’ rubber-lined floors provide
excellent traction.

Coach Heath Whittle’s boys Thompson, Brownie Thurman most as good a record as the
are out to equal last ‘year’s and Dave Warden. 1959 team compiled. Coach

amazing 62 record, and their 4 stout contingent from last Whittle hopes for wins over

work is cut out for them. year’s freshman squad is avail- Catawba, Wake Forest, High

Their first scheduled meet Dini :
able, also. Among these are Point, Richmond and VPI.
eomerrew at The Cede David Gilmour, Bill Coffey, An-|

‘ithe Wildcats going against

Keesler, in his first season
here, replacing Dick McKee,
was to have made his debut on
the local courts tomorrow with
a
down-rated Pfeiffer squad.

; And it was doubtful that
}| Wildcat freshmen would see ac-
tion here today with Belton
High School, which ranks

among the top teams in South
Carolina.
COURT CHANGE

The Wildcats may re-route
the Pfeiffer netters to Charlotte
tomorrow, if the Davidson
courts are unplayable.

Asked about the condition of
his players this: week, Keesler
uttered a few descriptions of
the weather and said, “We
haven't been able to see much
of them lately.”

The Wildcats, tagged as in-
experienced, include four re-
turning lettermen: Doug Orr,
Harry Broome, Finley. Lee and
lBob Huffaker.

Rounding out the first six
positions will probably be Jim
Hamilton and Andy Sherrill.

DEFENDING CHAMPS

The real test for Davidson
comes Wednesday as George
Washington, defending confer-
ence champion, swats here.

Two of the toughest swatters
in the conference — Jim Tarr
and Jim Whitehead — will be
in the No. 1 and 2 slots for GW.

Though Keesler _ expects

George Washington to repeat

Charlotte Court May
Host Cats Tomorrow

By BILL GODWIN
Davidson Sports Writer
The Davidson tennis courts contended with sleet,

rain and the remains of snow late this week, and Coach
Ted Keesler hesitated to predict the winner.

its 1959 performance, he said,
“We hope to give them a good
match.”

The Citadel here Friday, is
the team which finished third
in the conference last year be-
hind Davidson. The Cadets are
pretty weak, but boast a top
trio: Jack Sterling, Monte
Crook and Bennie Barn.

The Wildcats’ fourth foe next
Saturday, Presbyterian, is a
young team at four of the six
positions, Youth, in this case,
means trouble for Davidson.

The PC match marks the be-
ginning of a road trip for the
Cats with stops at Mercer,
Georgia Teck and Clemson.

DIXSE PRIDE

Tough Tech will be waiting
with Ned Neely one of the best
racketeers in the South. Sup-
porting him, in the No. 2 posi-
tion is a fighter, Harry Thomp-
son.

Coach Keesler will be doing
business with a relatively young
team. Juniors. Rick Aderhold,
Hight Redmond and Lee Cory
are aiming for the No. 6 posi-
tion, as are ‘sophomores Steph-
an Young and Bob Snead.
Young took a first place earlier
this month in the breaststroke
at the Southern Conference
swimming meet.

“We should improve as the
season progresses,” said Kees-
ler, reserving a final statement
for the weatherman.

mee yore gad dy Boggs, Dan Calhoun, John
er eee ¥- Chiles, Pat Currie and Tom
A Catawba meet scheduled {yeas
here Wednesday has been post-
in indoor track, the Wild-

poned until April 1. On the fol-
lowing day Wake Forest will be ts travel to Chapel Hill this
weekend for the Atlantic

visiting.
A strong core of lettermen Coast Conference Meet. Par.
ticipating in the non-confer-

basketball star in 1956 at Wake
horsehiders will have to hustle to break even.
He will receive his discharge
Citadel has the two top pitchers in Dick Almes and Ed
varsity coach and freshman
the loop leadership. since January, 1956, and ath
finished second last year. Tom Johnson, Verner Stanley!than 40 years, Scott compiled
have to score high to keep the ’Cats on top. > aie yi he: Ace
ances. Furman, The Citadel and William and Mary will

State, but his Davidson teams
won only 35 games while drop-

ping 77.

bolster the Wildcats.
Included are Captain Stuart

ence dividsion, Davidson will
face such teams as Georgia

frosh during the 1957-58 season.
past four years, is rebuilding but still dangerous. The
Hunt has served as assistant
Richmond team, VPI and West Virginia fo
@ strong Ric’ nd team, an es rginia for ting Bg Seg
the Southern Conference Championship in 1958 and | nected with basketball for more
All three are seasoned tournament veterans but will | With the Phillips Oilers in the
conference if for no other reason than past perform-

Indies Tie SAE

| Forest, coached the Davidson
In the conference, G.W. conference champ for the
from the Army this year.
Colby who won 18 games last year—should battle with
coach for two years.
GOLF — Tom Scott lost half of the team that Won jetic director since 1955. Con-
and Sut Alexander are the three returning lettermen, | outstanding records as coach
|Carolina and Central Missouri
George Washington will be the favorite in the
be gunning for Davidson in the runner-up slot.

a * *
’s For

Laughlin, Henry Pharr, Bob meets could give the 'Cats al-
| ineitiinatiiaiaiaaiiiaiaaat wince
ae as e ri k e MEET YOUR FRIENDS
; AT THE

The Independents, finishing strong, bulled their way to 46-44 win over the pre-
viously unbeaten SAE’s last Monday night to end the interfraternity basketball sea-
son in a deadlock. Tee Redding paced the Independents with 20 points, while Ed

Hines had 18 for the SAE’s. ne sinienen

pps 5643. The Pi/cas pierced 46 all and Gefeated the Phi
The Sig Eps clinched the tn. win column by clowning the Gams 57-54. The Phi Delts laced
handball title two weeks ago, ATO’s 48-44.
finishing with an unblemished Wednesday: In an overtime . And the Kap-
John Warlick and Mike clash, the SAE’s caught afire pa Sigs crushed the Pi Kapps
Maddock were the Sig Eps’ big With the score deadlocked at

guns. j

Latest basketball results this} INDOOR WORKOUTS:

week showed the Pi Kapps com- és =
ing from behind to take the

Sigma Chis 35-33.

In other cage clashes ; a a
>< s-a:(Three-Game Tri
trounced the Sigma Nus 73-30. ree - ame fl
The ATO’'s squeezed paast the

Kappa Sigs 43-41. And the Phi By JIM PRESSLY

Gams scored a win over the Davidsonian Sports Writer
—— The Davidson baseball team will ly see its
Tuesday: The Independents | first three games called off because of weather condi-
roared to a 53-34 victory over) tions, but it’s just as well.

_| Coach Stevens has held no to fill Harold Reagen’'s shoes.

’ ed to an easy!Outside practices and only a “Rat” Rucker and Harry Smith

ge Pena Kappa sles. week of workouts in the gym. will see action at second base,

The Phi Delts overcame the Pi! Pitchers Dee Green, who was with Rucker also slated for
credited with the Cats’ only some outfield duty.

four wins in 1959, and Tom Don Killian, last year’s

in the javelin, Co-captain John Tach aul Dubuen.
Huie in the pole vault and high

jump, Hugh Murray in the Toughest outdoor opponents
broad jump and Bill Eckbert in this spring will be Southern
the distance events. Conference champion The Cita-
Other talented veterans are d¢l and Furman,

Roger Beebe, Ed Kizer, Mike Victories in the other five

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

:

Like

* - Harris, have been throwing in- starting shortstop, returns to
side and “look pretty good,” ac- his old position. if his in-
cording to Stevens; but he won- jured leg holds up, Captain
a ders how they will do on the Russ Cotton will hold down
CAGE ALL STARS mound. the third sack. Cotton led last
Since the first three games Y@*"’s squad with a .333 bat-
arcadia —two with Catawba and ‘ing average.
1. Ed Hines (Captain)—SAE | Hampden-Sydney — may not 1” the outfield, junior Quin.
2. Bob Denham—Phi Delt | be played, the Wildcats ere *" Boyd, who saw limited ac- pte sa ca scniaeels eanniinaamiatinten
3. Lee Cory—SAE awaiting © three-game road [0m in 1959, is the only re-
4. Quinton Boyd—Pi Kepp | trip starting next Saturday. ‘ernee. Sophomores Allan Mil- Absent minded Professor
5. Doug Orr—SAE lar and Lou Jones should take
Davidson will play at Parris y, the slack in the pasture
= Southern College the following year, may also be moved to the | Not eo absent-minded when you get
6 Don Killien—Sigme Chi | Monday and Tuesday. outfield. right down to it.
: dane Guana Dee Green, only returnee, is Behind the plate Cole will| 1oo ee
& Tee Redding—Iind. almost a sure starter on the hill ..1) the signals with Harry important —the. Coke! Yes,
9. Den MacQueen—Ind. for the Cats. Not able to de- Cline backing him up. people will forgive you almost anything
10. Lew Zirkle—Phi Gem. [scribe the Wildcats’ condition, ©, the mound the Cats will] if you just remember to bring aleng
Stevens hesitated to divulge have four sophomores, along! their favorite sparkling drink—iee-celd
Menerttte Mention: Pacher,|Mtir chances on the mai Mi with scalor Dee Green. Tem! Coca Osta, De have another, professor!
Phi Delt; Lester, Phi Gamz| The 1960 team will look Harris and Nick Daves are lett- . ll
Bridgers, Sigme Chi; Bleom-| like this: handers; “Big Moose” Showal- REALLY
feild, tnd.; Lane, Bete. Sophomore Tom Harris will ter, termed a “real hard throw. sil
start at first base, replacing let- er” by Coach Stevens; and Jer- Bottled wader euthority CocaCole Compony by
) Jerry Cole; who has ry Shelton round out the hill
x t Mioved behind the plate staff. Coca-Cola Bottling Compeny ef Conserd, Conserd, N. C.

Even Virgil

is with the Winston beat

| Sing Of Arms And

FILTER-BLEND

, Man,

For if you dig a modern filter cigarette
It figures that it’s what's up front that is the most
Like pure Flavorsville, orbit stuff, and all that jazz;

And only Winston swings with [FILTER-BLEND] up front,

A real gone combo of golden, rich tobaccos
Selected and processed like for filter smoking;
That’s why, dear cats or even squares, it’s understood

Winston tastes good like a cigarette should!

2. 2 REVROLDS TOBACCO CO., WHEETON-SALEW. A.C.

