FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1960

Catfish H

SIDELINES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

2 2

Cagers

ON SPORTS |VMI, VPI Whip Cats

} _ . ¢
| eats ~ By B. MILLNER

IT’S ALWAYS SAD when an athletic team of any
sort comes apart at the seams, when it loses any sem-

blance of that unity which can make a poor team a little

By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

In Humiliating Week

The Wildcats will attempt to repair a 3-11 basket. |

better and a good team great. Even sadder is when the|ball record here tomorrow night when The Citadel‘
general ineptness of the team effort affects the perform-|comes to town. The Cadets represent the fifth oppor:

ance of its individual players. \

These things happened to Davidson’s basket-
ball team Monday night against VMI. It was a game
between two teams fighting to stay out of the
Southern Conference's basement, for the last-place
finisher in the league doesn’t get to make the trip
to the Conference tournament.

AND DAVIDSON played the worst basketball game
seen around here since Johnston Gym was built. Players

made mistakes they haven’t made since junior high. And Last

it was sad.

But if any sort of record was established in
Johnston Gym Monday night, it was the student
body and not the team that set it. For surely it was
the most disgusting conduct displayed by one of our
noforiously disgusting audiences for some time. The
Cat's blowup occasioned a general spirit of rejoicing
among those present. It was the first time we've
seen a home team cheer when the visitors scored a
basket. It was as if the Davidson boys had been
waiting for this all year long.

“WELL JUST LOOK HOW BAD they were .. . why,

I could get out there and do that good.” No matter how/|2gainst Catawba, Coach Scott
bad they were, no team deserves the treatment from its|**Pects even a harder game

own “supporters” that the Wildcats received Monday

night. Said one player, who went through it: “At the/eartier this season, 67-62. That
second half we were trying hard to come back, and our|game was a toss-up until the
shots weren’t dropping, but when the crowd went against | __________

us, you just don’t care much.”

Teams often play in strange gyms before hostile
crowds, but when you’re on the home court and
your own classmates and friends jeer when you mess
up — well, it’s just sad.

WHAT MAKES a team fall apart at the seams?
There is really no explanation for the way Davidson
played Monday night. By the same token, there isn’t any
reason to treat a team like a troupe of performing ani-
mals. It would have been better to say nothing at all
than jeer—kinder to get up and leave than laugh. The
exhibition affected the players in varying ways. Some
were angry, a few accepted it as a matter of course,
some were hurt—but they all heard it.

It’s hard for a student rooting section to
apologize. And a good part of it probably wouldn’t
want to. The best thing to do is forget about. it.

Team Captain John Huie said Tuesday night,
“We've gotten over it. We had a good practice
today.”

TO  ’
MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Salem's s

Salem's amazing new
HIGH POROSITY paper
“air-softens” every puff,

Invisible porous openings
blend just the right emount of air with

New cigarette paper “air-softe
Now even the paper adds to

pringtime freshness:

An important break-through in Salem's
research laboratories brings you this
special new Hic Porosity paper which
breathes new freshness into the flavor.
Each puff on a Salem draws just enough

tunity afforded Davidson this season to break into the
win column against Southern Conference competition.

Tom Scott’s forces had rough
going again this week as VMI
and VPI romped to wide-margin
wins.

The Citadel had better luck! ,
with VMI. posting a 74-53 vie- | Schoo! work which precedes ex-
tory. To date the Cadets have
won nine and lost four.

TWO SQUEAKERS

season Davidson drop-
ped two squeakers to The Cita-
del, 78-72, here, in two over-
times, and 64-60, there. The
Cadets went on to finish second,
to West Virginia in the South-!
ern Conference.

“They’re probably the third
best team in the conference this
year,” commented Scott.

Leading scorers for the Ca-
dets arc forwards Art Mussel-
man. 6-4, and Ray Graves, 6-5.

CATAWBA MONDAY
In Salisbury Monday night

closing seconds.

On the other hand. the Wild-
eat frosh, led by Bill Jarman,

latest win being over Presby-
terian here Monday night.
AT THE SEAMS
Later’ that. night the varsity
fel! apart at the seams in their

Place in the conference as the
Keydets claimed a_ surprising

idouble figures. Individual lead-

eight points each. |
| CHEER FOR VMI
!

than the one in which the Wild- The situation for Davidson:

cats whipped the Indians here

;Stages of the game that local
fans began cheering for VMI.
Virginia Tech found the ’Cats
Indoor Track Slafes:::” victims Wednesday night
in Blacksburg. The Gobblers
took advantage of a weak
Three Feb. Meels Davidson defense and wrapped
: up their third straight Southern
Coach Health Whittle has 1Conference win, 96-51. Bill
slated three meets por the Shinn was high for the Wild-
team this winter. The cats with 16.
eer include the Southern \
onference February 20 at'| 6 | M
Lexington, vas the Big oop rapp e mee
ve Meet at Chapel Hi alT B H ld H
week fater: nd ‘the ACC 0 e e ere
vitationa oor Meet at .
Chapel Hill March 12. The DAVIDSONIAN
Coach Whittle said that he!learned Wednesday _ that
was pleased with the turn dut,the Southern Conference
for indoor track, which is as{Wrestling Tournament will
large as any in the past few be held at Davidson March
years. “We've got: quite a fewi4 and 5.
boys out now, but I expect} Coach Charlie Parker made
more after exams,” he Said. the bid for Davidson at the De-
VMI, as usual, will be a top-}cember meeting of the confer-
heavy favorite in the Southern ence. It ‘is the first time that
Conference mect. VMI is one ;the league wrestling mect has
of the few teams in the confer-jever been held here.
ence that works out year-| On the same day, Southern
around. Conference riflers will be firing
The Big Five meet will bejin the loop rifle meet at the
held in Chapel Hill’s legendary |local ROTC firing range.
“tin can”. Duke, North Caro-| Parker said that VPI and
lina, North Carolina State,|West Virginia will fight it out
Wake Forest,.and Davidson will|for the wrestling title. David:
compete. Carolina and Duke, al-|son grappl¢r Milton Gee is the
ways track powers in the state,!top local contender. Gee nar-
will be favored. Both freshmen|rowly missed a championship
and varsity squads will partici-jlast year when he injured a leg
pate. in his semifinal match.

Soo TE

ns” every puff!

72

- Scott laid some blame this; d
week for his team’s poor show. ; |
ling thus far to the pile of §

“They haven't looked really Ky,
good since Christmas,” he said. B®

have posted a 5-5 record. their 4

| ,

annual battle with VMI for last

70-38 victory. | ;
Four VMI cagers scored in J

Jers for Davidson were A. C.-M
-Miller and John Huie, with |

became so hopeless in the late|

.|procedure for one of the relay races.

Crésted by It J. Resnulds Tuvscco Company

fresh air in through the paper to make the
smoke taste even softer, fresher, more
flavorful, If you've enjoyed Salem’s spring:
time freshness before, you'll] be even more
pleased now.Smokerefreshed, smoke Salem!

battle in the local pool.

Coach Shoe, who saw his
team drown South Carolina
in their last outing on Friday,
expects the V.P.1. meet to be |
a dilly. “They‘re plenty ;
tough,” he said, “They beat |
William ond Mary and their
times were better than ours |
when we took them.” David- ,
mm; son dunked William and
| Mary by a 52-29 count.
“V.P.I's times against Wil-
a |liam and Mary were on an av-

erage about three seconds fast-|
“er than ours,” expounded the:
‘coach. “However. we've trim-,
m™ med our times down in the
betel last two weeks and we hope
Be we'll be ready for them.

“a 6s “They're =the toughest in
the distance events but 1 .
mn think we'll take all of the
=| sprints. They've got the |
| depth, however, and that will ;
i) give us o lot of trouble.

“I feet that if we can beat

="

‘are a good bit stronger than
R VMI, the only. team that has
me beaten us this year.

|
‘. wr \ : |
4 ft

>
gg weet ©
7)
Be L
a
IN DUBIOUS BATTLE—John Huie goes up for a tap-in

against V. M. |. last Monday night. If was Davidson's ninth
straight loss. (Davidsonian Photo by Gene Wells)

Phi Delts Stretch

ry

ao

A
ty ” ‘

-

suffered its fourth straight
Citadel defeated. them here
The Cats. forfeited the 123-

pound match for the fourth

_ The Phi Delts moved into a slight lead over the opuddy Brauch was pinned at
SAE’s in the Intramural sports race.
Athletic settled the swimming: meet controversy last: 10-2 at 137 and Jerry Koller up-
Friday by allowing the Phi Delt-SAE tie to go on the %¢t Millon Gee 20 in the 147

. : A . teh. LeD d Th
books. A mild dispute had developed over scoring then won 4 and. 13.8 veupee:

tively, and Alexander _ tied.
IMAC chairman Tyree Finch announced Wednesday Heavyweight Alex Porter then

that basketball would begin’ Wednesday, February 3. Pinned his man.

Handball will start that Tuesday. Finch also said that a ALLEN THROUGH

referee’s clinic will be held Monday, Feb. 1. Each frater-, Jim Allen re-injured his

nity will be required to send two referees and will forfeit shoulder in practice last week

points if they don’t show up. seca de elt be ab
Point totals to date are as follows: .

. : . . . ‘wrestle again. However, Milton
Fraternity Flickerball Wrestling Swimming Total Gee returned to action last.

Phi Delt 160 82 128 370 week, replacing Newt Burns in|
SAE 128 105 115 348 the line-up. Gee wrestled well
Phi Gam 92 130 53 275 nonent match, pinning his
Beta 149 56 68 273 :
KA 100 49 1B Ter weeks loss to N.C. Sta

: . a S . C. State
Sigma Chi 18 93 35 246 was described by Coach Parker’
Kappa Sig 139 49 40 228 35 “our worst match in several.
ATO 83 55 57 ¥95 years.” The match ended with’
Pi Kapp 83 59 30 172 Davidson on. the short end of a)
Pika 66 46 46 158 23-10 score, giving the team a,
Sig Ep 83 13 40 136 0-3 record for the year. The

. three losses have been to ACC
sigma Nu * * oe voy teams — Duke, Carolina and

nd. State.

ee OL

THE DAVIDSON RIFLE TEAM: Front Row—Bob Barringer,
Stan Gaines.
Ronnie Lewis. Standing—is Sgt. McCurry, Coach.
Don Harper. (Davidsonisn Photo by Gene Wells)

time this: year. Butch LeDoyen, '

[Cliff Thompson and Alex Port-,
‘er were Davidson’s only win-
Lea ial - ace ners. Jim Alexander tied his,

ithe 157 Ib. class, Butch LeDoyen.

The Intramural 130. Tommy Brown was beaten.

Kneeling— Steve Arthur, Tom Wright, Mac Foster, Bill
Absent are Joe Wearn, co-coptain, and

PAGE THREE

ost VPI In Crucial Meet
Meet Tough Citadel 2:2"

swimmers, place their 4-1 record on the line tomorrow
against rugged V. P. I. in a crucial Southern Conference

“Of course, Citadel is the
team to.~beat this year but I
think that we can take them.
By the time we swim them
(February 27) we'll be in our,
best shape and our times will
be way down.

“Vve been really impressed
by the way the boys have
been working. They’ve got a
lot of spirif.”

Davidson should be at full
“strength against V.P.I. with
the possible exception of co
captain Bill Hellier. Hellier,
who has been in the infirm-
ary with a virus this week,
may or may not go against
the Gobblers.

The meet is scheduled for
2:00 p.m.

After exams, the tankers re-
turn to the pool for a three
meet home stand against. three
visitors from Georgia. Tharni-
versity of Georgia on Febryary

[V.R.1. we'll go all the way. They .11, Georgia Tech on the! 12th

and Emory on the 19th round
out the Wildcats home sche-
dule.

iBulldogs Edge
{Cat Wrestlers

By JIM PRESSLY
Davidsonian Sports Writer

CHARLESTON, S. C.—Davidson's wrestling team

loss yesterday, when The
18-13.

ALEXANDER LOSES FIRST

The State match began with
Davidson forfeiting in the 137
Nb. class. The next two weights
were won by State on pins.
Then Gee pinned his man. In

was pinned. Cliff Thompson
won by forfeit. Alexander lost .
his first match of the year, 0-6.
Porter also lost by points, 46,
but Coach Parker commented -
on his “good match.”

Post-exam action finds David-
son traveling to Emory on Feb-
ruary Sth. The next home.
match will be with Wake For-
est on February 10th. Coach
Parker was optimistic about
these- matches, saying that
‘both of them are not too
strong and we should. take
them.”

The line-up of the = ‘Cats
boasts four sophomores, an in-
dication of strength in years to
come. Butch LeDoyen, Buddy
Brauch, Tommy Brown, and Jim
Alexander will form the nucleus
of the 'Cat mat squad for the
next two years, and junior Cliff
Thompson will return next

year. Milton Gee and Alec
Porter wwill_be lost by gradua-
tion. These two men have been
almost consistent winners in
past years, and their loss will
leave a big gap in the Davidson
line-up.

Don Rhame, Marvin Rorear,
Blakely, Jun Young,

Riflers Host Citadel

The Davidson Rifle team will meet The Citadel and

MS te and non-conference against Wake Forest.

He added, “Wake Forest is not too strong this year.

Wake Forest at 9:00 A.M.,

Saturday morning. The match will be Southern Conference against: The Citadel

. Sgt. McCurry, rifle team coach, said, “The Citadel is very good — the best in
the Southern Conference. Last year TheCitadel was the
champion. We lost to them earlier in the season, 1411-1346.
though. Their best shooters are Wells, Russo, and O'Mara.”

Southern Conference
We had a bad day,

They will have to depend

on Freshman extensively. Also, they lost their best two men to graduation.”

e menthol fresh e rich tobacco taste e modern filter, too

Salem refreshes your taste

Davidson’s Southern Conference record is 0-2, but 4-3 overall. Davidson is
currently leading the West Carolina ROTC Conference, which includes Davidson,
Wofford, Presbyterian College, and Furman with a 4-1 record. The Wildcats’
leading shooters this year are Capt. Stan Gaines, Don Harper, and Co-Captain Joe
Wearn.

cach puff to give you « softer, fresher,
even more fizvorful smoke.

ome
os

PO TIORE FUAN EVER
