PAGE FOUR

Summer

—

BY SILL HAGEN

Davidsonian Assignments Editor

The girl in white stumble
beach. She looks hack. the ca
the ocean after her. They are dressed, ‘res

clothes.

The three press forward and
a waiting solitary figure appears
in front of her. She rises. runs
toward the single smiling boy
and hestitantly reaches out for
him. The touch of the couple's
hands instataneously infuses the.
picture with color. The pur-
suers turn, with complete lack
of emotion, and walk back into
the ocean.

GOOD DIRECTING

Thus ends the final scene of
“Odalisque,” David Simpson's
“latest” film effort which was
shown last weekend in the
Union. With experience consist-
ing only of “watching foreign
movies and a mock western pro-
duced in high school.” Simpson's
film contained some surprising-
ly good camera work and direc-
tion. It will also be remembered
that he personally managed, suc-
cessfully, last year's Fine Film
Festival and plans, in addition,
to have an Experimental Film
Festival this year.

“Odalisque” was shot last
‘summer and arose out of the
idea to make a short out of a
comedy-ridden chase sequence.
It was later changed to a symbo-
lic dramatic pursuit and took
approximately three days to

mera shifts, a

tic experience. Miss Ritchie.
whose home is in Concord, will
also star in Simpson's new
movie, to be shot during Christ-
mas vacation.
NEXT PICTURE

Ambitious preparations have
already been made for this 45-
minute sound and color movie,
which will be filmed in Nassau.
From the book, The Girl Be-
neath the Lion’s Head by Andre
P. Demandigargues. the young
producer has written a sizable
script complete with camera and

film. ’
It was. a unique: venture’ in
that each of the seven students
concerned contributed nine
doliars to finance it.
TECHNICAL PROBLEMS
Apparently the only real dif-
ficulties encountered were tech-
nical ones, even considering the
wild race scene shot a half a

Cinema Effort

Filmed In Charlotte, Beach

S oui of the ocean. anc falis, exhausted. on the sandy
nd we see three young men wading out of
pectively, in bermudas, a suit, and sports

St-ge Girections.

Simpson commented _ that,
“the Sensuously beautiful book
concerns the transformation of
a mentally unbalanced girl into
a mature woman through a sin-
gle night’s ritualistic love of
her own design.”

David Simpson, who names
“Hiroshima Mon Amour” as “the
best movie I have seen,” plans
to go to France to study under
one of the famous producers
there after his graduation from
Davidson.

ch

j ture degree from Coker College,

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open Houses

The Following professors will hold open house for
students after vespers this Sunday night:

Brown Griffin Scott
Burts Kelton Stroud
Currie Lilly wear L
° ite. L.
Daggy Lloyd Whittle “.
Gable Martin, J. G. Williams

Alumna’s Bonnie Day.
Grows By Degrees

BY BILL RUTH
Davidsonian Feature Editor

At Commencement last May, Miss Bonnie Ethel
Cone, President of Charlotte College, became the first
woman ever to receive any kind of degree from David-
son. She was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws de-
gree for her outstanding work in the field of education.

a

On the same day she received been selected as a member of
an honorary Doetor of Litera- Davidson’s Board of Visitors.
The Board will meet for the
first time October 16.

Theft Complaints
During the past fifteen years, Bring Court Action

she has helped in the rapid de-| Five complaints of thefts in-
velopment of Charlotte College | volving a total of about $40 have
from an extension of the Uni-| been registered with the Honor
versity of North Carolina to its} Court in less than two weeks,
present junior college position. Chairman Harrison Wellford an-

Due to the efforts of Miss! T°unced this week.
Cone, the college is proceeding; Each of the five acts of steal-
with a rapid construction pro-|'8 occurred in the afternoon
gram. “Our first two buildings,|2%d involved cash which had
to be used for liberal arts and| been carelessly left in dormitory
engineering science, will be}tooms. In cunnection with one

dedicated on Sunday, October) theft, a student was apprehend-

the first honorary degree over
awarded by that college. Miss
Cone was graduated from Coker
magna cum laude in 1928, and
since that time has spent her

life enthusiastically helping
other people.

COLLEGE DIRECTOR

She taught school in South
Carolina and was a mathematics
teacher in Charlotte, and she
even taught at Duke, being the

(Continued from page one)

be ‘highlighted Saturday after-
noon at 2:00 when the Wildcats
entertain the Blue Hose of Pres-
byterian College for the Home-
coming football game. The
cheerleaders’ contingent of the
Peon Army, under the command
of Joe Martin, will lead David-
son’s newly acquired wildcat
mascot to her first game as the
team’s namesake.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1961

“”y wages REKLG -
TA CR
ate ta
o. f 5
149 ey At) we

aw
Feit

Sun...

SIGNING’ UP for rooms; another Davidson tradition. Mrs. Moore maternally officiates as
students participate in the ceremony. (Davidson ian Photo by McCutchen.)

lHomecoming Weekend

and maybe some studying before
classes on Motiday.

THE

ae CHRISTIAN SCTENCE

MONITOR 0%

—

only woman on the men’s cam-
pus during World War II. In
1946 she took a teaching posi-
tion at Charlotte College and
one year later became Director
of the college.

“I would like to say how
pleased I am to have received
an honorary degree from David-
son,” said Miss Cone. “It’ is

15. They will supply 62,000 | ¢4 and dismissed this week.
square feet of additional space| The linking of stealing and
to the College,” she continued.| dance weekends brought the
: | explanation from the chairman
MORE CONSTRUCTION j that the need for cash was the
j usual cause of violations at
conditioned. and the science such times. He went on to note
laboratory is equipped with the! that in the past as well as this
most up-‘o-date facilities. We| Ye" Teports of the disappear-
are now in the process of plan-| 2%¢e of money always increased
in the two or three weeks prior

“All of the buildings are air

Subscribe Now
at Half Price

You can read this world-famous
daily newspoper for the next six
months for $5.50, just half the
tegulor subscription rate. ;
Get top news coverage. Enjoy
special feotures. Clip for refer-
ence work,

During the halftime activities
the new President, President-
elect, and two vice Presidents
of the Davidson College Alumni
Association will be named.

Concluding this year’s formal
Homecoming activities will be
a semi-formal dance in the gym

block from the middle of Char-
lotte. A crowd which assembled
at Myrtle Beach to watch the
filming there bothered the ama-
teurs little after they’ were told,

really one of the highlights of
my life. I’ am. proud to have’
‘been there to participate in
commencement exercises.”

ning two more buildings, a li-
brary. and a college union. With
the passage of the state-wide tax
issue, we will be able to comi-
plete a fifth building.”

to dances. to the music of Ralph Flani
Warning that students “be P sam

reasonably careful about leaving | His Piano and Orchestra. Dur- |
temptations around,” Wellford !"& the dance, the Four Aces, a

pointed out that in each of the|top recording group. will pre-

confidentially,, that the group
was from Hollywood.

Geneva Ritchie. a sophomore
from Agnes Scott here for sum-

. a.
“ODALISQUE” OPENING shows Geneva Ritchie, waiting. , . .
This is from Oavid Simpson's summer cinema effort, recently

mer school, played the girl chas-
ed in ‘‘Odalisque.” She is pres-
ently majoring in psychology
and has had no previous drama-

39 Cadets Receive
DMS At Fi. Bragg

shown in the Union. (Photo by Lafferty)

[Frosh Group Meets, _
‘Plans Class Project

Under the leadership of Freshman Ad viser Bob Stone, the aewly-elected Fresh-

Thirty-nine Davidson cadets ™an Council held its first meeting this pa st. Monday.

were designated Distinguished It was highlighted by a talk
Military Students for the school from C. Shaw Smith; the accep-
year 1961-62. _tance of the first class project,

To achieve a DMS rating a to be aimed at Richardson
cadet must be recommended for Scholars: and the appointment
his performance at ROTC sum. of the committees to handle the
mer camp at Fort Bragg, and aspects of Freshman Parents
also have a good record in ROTC Day on Nov, 4.
at Davidson. In an opening address, Smith

These students have the op-| director of the Cétlege Union,
portunity to take a regular | emphasized the job that ceun-
Army commission rather than (cil members would be expected
a reserve commission, if they so'to do and the’ importance of
chose. their position.

The cadets who earned. the "You arc. a scieet group with
DMS rating were Jim Alexan. 2 big respons‘sility to your
der. Andy Boggs, Walker class. You have doors opencd
Clarke. Harry Cline, Herb Col-!fo you on the campus that: no
lins, Pat Currie, Duke Davis, other freshman can have. tt is
Harold Fisher, Bill. Gerhardt, | your duty to your ciass to ques-
Bob Hartness, Cecil Holcomb, | tion policies you do not under-
Bob Hord. Jim Jamison, Joe stand and to represent class
Kelley. George Kundahl. Paul | opinions on issues,” he told
Leonard, Dave Lovette, Bob Mc- | them.

Allister, and Bob McFarland. Smith atso stressed that other

Also receiving this commen. Freshmen Councils had paved
cation weré Lynwood Mallard, , the way for this one but had not

|

Tom Martin, Mac Mitchell, Dun: done all the good there is to be’

can Morton, Tom Patrick, Dave done. “If you do on the council

Page. Lowry Reid, Buddy Rives, 'what you meant to do before ,

Pat Rush, Jerry Shelton, Gibson | you came to Davidson, you can
Smith, Bob Stephens, Bob! accomplish anything that you

Class project for the year. If is
to. be the raising of money to
establish a fund to buy tickets
for Richardson Scholars to con-
certs, plays and other programs
in the Charlotte area. Council-
men were: asked to present the
idea to their respective halls and
to ‘solicit donations from each
freshman by Wednesday.

The council feels that the con-
cert tickets would serve two
purposes. First, it would show
“he foreign students an aspect
of our culture that they might
not normally see. Secondly, it
would set an example for all
students to follow of making
our guests feel at home through-
out the schoo! year.

BOARD OF VISITORS

On Tuesday, October 9, Miss
Cone was notified that she had

This year's enrollment at

as compared to 697 last year.

cases of the current school year; sent two 30-minute concerts.

Charlotte College is 914 students| the stolen money had been in| the Four Aces will not present
the open or in an obvious place! 4 concert in Chambers Auditor-

Send your order today. Enclose
check or money order, Use cou-
pon below.

The Christion Science Monitor
One Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.
Send your newspoper for the tina
checked.
©) 6 months $5.50 ©)! yeor $1
OC Coltege Student [J Faculty Member

Stone also appointed chair-
men to four committees for
Freshman Parents Day. They
are as follows: Pete Coggeshall,
publicity; Dan Campbell, tours;
Jurry Martin, reception; and
Dick Bates, registration.

Tom Cobb, a freshman cheer-
leader, made an announcement
concerning freshman participa-
tion in the Homecoming Rally.
He emphasized that the march

through upperclass dormitories |

should be done in as orderly a
manner as possible and that no
tiot was to be ‘provoked. He also
asked the council members to
exert their influence to keep
the rally from becoming a
beanie burning affair.

AIR-CONDITIONED

INDIVIDUAL HEAT

FULL BATHS
FREE TV

THE OAKS MOTOR COURT

344 South Main Street
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA

Owners and Mgrs.

TELEPHONE
663-5693

“Our next step is to become a: SUch as a desk drawer.
four-year institution,” she add-| Wellford also emphasized that

ed. if students wished to have stolen
articles returned, “chances of

Charlotte College stands as a| getting it (the stolen article)| and sleepy girls will have check-
real measure of the accomplish-| back are a lot better if thejed out of the dormitories to
first] Court learns about it immed-|make room for their weary

ments of Davidson's

alumna. iately.”

HOWARD HUGHES DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS. If you are
interested in studies leading to a doctor's degree in physics or
engineering, you .are invited to apply for one of the several new
awards in 1962 on the Howard Hughes Doctorai Fellowship Program.

This unique program offers the doctoral candidate the optimum
combinetion of high-level study at an outstanding institution plus
practical industrial experience in the Hughes laboratories.

Each Howard Hughes Doctoral Fellowship usually provides about
$8,000 ennually. Of this amount approximately $1,800 is for tuition,
thesis and research expenses, other academic fees and books. The
remainder is composed of salary earned by the fellow and a stipend.

Howard Hughes Doctoral! Fellowships are open to outstanding stu-
dents. A master’s degree, or equivalent graduate work, is essential
before beginning the Fellowship Program.

| HUGHES MASTERS FELLOWSHIPS. The Hughes Masters
Fellowship Program offers unusual opportunities for education lead-
ing to a master's degree . . . and, in addition, provides each fellow
with practical experience in the professional field of his choice.

Approximately fifty new awards will be made in 1962 to qualified
applicants possessing a bachelor’s degree in engineering or physics.

Most of the award winners will be assigned to the WORK STUDY
PROGRAM and will attend a university sufficiently near a tacility of
the Hughes Aircraft Company to permit them to obtain practical
experience in a professional field of their choice, by working at the
company at least half time. An appropriate stipend will be awarded.

ium as scheduled in “This

Week.” Nome
. Address
By 2:00 p.m. Sunday 600 tired
City zone Stote

“This special offer avatlable ONLY to colles?
students, faculty members, and college libraries.

dates hoping for a little rest

A small, highly selected group will be offered a FULL-STUDY
PROGRAM. Participants in this program will receive fellowships that
permit them to attend an outstanding university on a full-time basis
during the regular academic year with a substantial stipend.

After completion of the Master's Program, fellows are eligible to
apply for HUGHES STAFF DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS.

For both programs, typical areas of research and development to
which fellows may be assigned while working for Hughes include:
weapons control systems, infrared search and track systems,
advanced propulsion systems... parametric amplifiers, masers,
lasers, microwave tubes and devices, electron-tube and solid-state
displays, semiconductor materials, antenna arrays, aerospace
vehicles and trajectories... plasma electronics; solid-state, atomic,
nuclear and aerospace physics; propagation, mechanics of struc-
tures, chemistry and metallurgy ...systems analysis, human factors
and analysis, network analysis and synthesis... microminiaturiza-
tion, communications, date processing, information theory,
simulation.

The classified nature of work at Hughes makes American citizenship
and eligibility for security clearance a requirement.

Closing date for applications: January 15, 1962.

How to apply: To apply for either the Howard Hughes Doctoral
Fellowship or the Hughes Masters Fellowships write Dr. C. N.
Warfield, Manager Educational Relations, Hughes Aircraft Company,
Culver City, California.

Creating a new world with ELECTRONICS

Hughes

BILL and HAZEL SURINKLE | HUGHES

Stone. Floyd Walters, Skeeter :
Watson, Bill Whittington, Jimi
Woods. and Linton Wray.

want to,” said Smith.
Stone suggested and !ed in the
discussion of the first Freshman

MOST READ NON-CURRICULAR BOOKS
DURING 1960 - 1961

No. Times
Read
Goldwater: The Conscience of a
Conservative

26s Lee: To Kill a Mocking Bird

21 Shirer: The Rise and Fall of the Third
Reich

18 Lampeduvsa: The Leopard

17 Swarthout: Where the Boys Are

16 = Michener: Hawaii

16 = Wilson: Ritual in the Dark

15 Slaughter. Pilgrims in Paradise

List compiled by Carrie L. Brittain, Circulation and
Reference Librarian.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

|

|
|
|

STUDENTS FREE WITH PARENTS

ee ae ee it a ee ee ee

L

HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY

An equat opportunity employar.

THE CONNOISSEUR RESTAURANT

DRIVE-IN

:

ON THE WAY
TO SALEM

EAT DINNER WITH US

PIZZA

B. B.

QUE

SANDWICHES
COLD DRINKS
N. MAIN, MOORESVILLE

| Fellowship

trograms

