Issue Nog

WELCOME TO SYNOD YOUTH

Again we have people from the outside
on the campus, so let the summer inmates
of Davidson extend a welcome to those who
are on campus for the Synodical Youth Con-
ference.

They wild be with us until Saturday,
and it is our privilege to be their hosts
for the week, There will be many more op-
portunities for us to be of service to this
group than there were last week, and we
hope that each student will take advantage

of these opportunities.

BRIDGE TOURNEY REGISTRATION

To this date, four tables are signed
up for the bridge tourney. Registration
is still open, and will remain open until
11:00'PM Thursday at the Union Desk.

The tourney is open to all comers, and
the Tourney Committee will especially wel-
come registrations from members of the fac-
ulty. Also, to those who do not feel that

their bridge is quite up to the par deman-
ded. by a championship teurney of this sort,
the committee extends an invitation to par-
ticipate as kibitzers. No registration is
demanded of kibitzers, and the requirements
of kibitzmanship are listed elsewhere in
this issue.

The tourney will start at 7:00 PM
on Friday night, and will continue until
all teams have played sixteen hands. Re-
gistrants are also, reminded that no master
points will be awarded in this tourney.

(-

June 27, 1961

Ed: G.P. Nowlin
FROPER KIBITZMANSHIP

Kibitzmanship requires the same ameunt
of good sportsmanship and finesse as the
actual play of tourney bridge. For the in-~
formation of prospective kibitzers, the
editor lists here some rules that are "in"
for well-to-do kibitzers,

1) Aproper kibitzer chooses his fav-
orite team and sticks with it until the
final play.

2) Three subdued claps are the proper

acclaim when your team trumps an oppoe
nent's ace and a subdued hiss is proper
when the ace turns out to be not the op-
ponent's, but rather an out-of-turn lead
by your favorite, .

3) If the kibitzer finds himself his-
sing more than two times per rubber, he
may then set aside rule number one and
find a team that is better suited to cheer-
ful kibitzing.

h) It is a Union house rule that no
kibitzers will be allowed on the floor
while carrying mirrors or concealed ra-
dio transmitters,

MIDWEEK BREAK

We are pleased to announce that the
members of the Young People's Conference
will share our break activities this week.
It will indeed be a privilege to share our
cokes and doughnuts with this group.

Also, this week, the Break will go on
in spite of sleet or rain as it will be
held in the Union Balirvom,

MOVIE

The movie this week will be the screen
adaptation of James Hilton's famous LOST
HORIZON, starring Ronald Coleman.

The chairman of the Films Committee
has announced that the movie will be held
only on Friday night this week due to a

lack of funds
