PAGE FOUR. J

Ten Fraternities Elect
Officers For 1961-62

Ten of the twelve social fraternities have elected officers for
the coming year or fall semester. depending on the terms of
cffice prescribed by the various fraternity constitutions.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Chi have not yet chosen lead-
ers. Each plans to do so within the next two weeks,

The officers are as follows:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA

President ____.. Jim Jamison
Vice President — _.__. Don Saunders
Secretary _ _._ +... R. D. Jackson
Treasurer _.... Louis Burton
Rush Chairman . Steve Butler
BETA THETA PI
President Joe Martin
Vice President Walker Clarke
‘Recording Secretary Carleton Cole
Treasurer Tom Brown
Rush Chairman Gist Farr
KAPPA ALPHA
President Skeeter Watson
Vice President .. Stefan Young
Secretary Harry West
Treasurer Herk Sims
Rush Chairman
KAPPA SIGMA
President Bob Stone
Vice President * Linton Wray
Secretary
Treasyrer .. ._ Lawrence Kimbrough

Rush Chairman

Duncan Morton

L

es
A EIRST INSPECTION “O.K.” was given the new Cunningham Fine Arts buliding lest weelc
by acoustical inspectors from Cambridge. The building, shown above in a view of the north-
west corner, is progressing on schedule. There will be one more acoustical inspection after
the building is finished. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

After Vespers

Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for
students after vespers this Sunday night:

Bryan Hampton Richey
Calhoun McGill Sailstad
Fulcher Mebane Thompson
Gallent Polley Tyson
Goodykoontz Reid White

Wheaton Replaces Adams
"In Command Of ROTC Unit

Lt. Col.. Paul R. Wheaton, an infantry officer, will re-

place Lt. Col. William L. Adams as head of the Davidson
ROTC Department next year. Wheaton, a graduate of
West Point, comes to Davidson from the Tenth Special

Forces Group in Germany.
A graduate of the Command

John Rogers/and General Staff College at

Fort Leavenworth, Kan., Whea-
ton is also a paratrooper. He
will move to Davidson in early
August with his wife and four

| children.

PH! DELTA THETA

John Harris
Duke Davis

President
Vice President

Adams will leave in early
June for Orleans, Franee (just
outside Paris). He will serve
there as the intelligence officer
for a logistical command. His
amily will accompany Col.

Scripts ‘N Pranks -
To Answer Critics

The spring issue of Scripts ‘N
Pranks, coming out next week.
will feature a special section
submitted by Sigma Upsilon
honorary literary fraternity and
a collection of poetry by David-

Chorus Completes
Tour Of Seaboard

The Davidson College Male
Chorus, which has just com-
pleted a tour along the Atlantic
Seaboard, plans a busy schedule
for the rest of the spring.

Professor Donald B. Plott,
director of the chorus, said the
spring tour, which included
eight concerts in various Atlan-
tic Coast states, was well re-
ceived by alumni of the college.

‘I do not believe I ever saw
so many ex-Davidson students
on a tour before,” he com-
mented. ‘I would call it very
enjoyable and successful in
every way.”

Last night, the Male Chorus
and: Secretary of State Dean
Rusk were guests-of-honor at a
meeting of the Atlanta Bar As-
sociation in Atlanta, Ga. Rusk
gave the main address, and the
chorus sang three selections.

Next,Monday night, the cho-
rus will give a concert at Char-

lotte College beginning at 7:15
p.m. On Friday, April 28, the
annual Spring Concert will be

a ee i

FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1961

Two Centuries Separate

Tavern which stood nearby.”

Torrence’s Tavern — doubt-
less a place where much dark
ale was drunk, many rollicking
songs were sung, and much good
fellowship was enjoyed in the
time when our country was
young.

Today, less than two miles
from this very spot where our
illustrious forebearers met to
quaff the friendly ale and to en-
joy the company of comrades
stands a simuar establishment at
which many members of the
Davidson student body will meet
for the pursuit of similar enjoy-
ments during dance wekend.

The place is Hattie’s, where
memories of such activities as
Hog Anderson’s now-legendary
drinking contest still linger. Re-
calling the contest, Hattie mar-
veled, “That boy drank a quart
of beer in nine tenths of a sec.
ond. He took a quart of beer—
and you may think I'm lying—
but he did it just like this,” she
said, simulating the movement
with a wave of the hand.

“He washed out an oil can,
and put the beer in it,” added
“Hattie, Jr.” (Whose real name,
by the way, is Betty.) When
asked about the origin of her
nickname, she explained, ‘‘John-
ny Crute is the one started that,
and everybody down there at the
college calls me Hattie, Jr.”

Hummel Accepts!
Sweetbriar Post,

Associate Proxessor of Busi-
ness Administration and Eco-
nomics Charles M. Hummel will

leave Davidson next year to
teach at Sweetbriar College in
Virginia.

Dr. Hummel, who received his
education at V. P. IL, Univer-
sity of Pensylvania, and Uni-
versity of Virginia, has been
teaching at Davidson since 1959.

He will become an associate
professor of economics and
plans to try an entirely new ap-
proach in teaching Elementary

BY FRANK STAFFORD

'|Hattie’s And Torrence’s

Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Torrence’s Tavern” proclaims the North Carolina Historical Society sign. Tarle-
ton’s British cavalry routed a force of American militia, Feb. 2, 1781, at Torrence’s

Hattie’s opinion of the “Devid-
son gentleman” is high. “I’ve
been here 16 years in Novem-
ber,” she said, “and # never
have had any trouble out of the
boys yet. If they get loud, § can
call ‘em down, and they're all
real nice.” Speaking of gradvat-
ing eeniore, she said, “They sure
have got a good bunch of boys.
i‘m gonna hate to lose ‘em next
year. They stay around here for
four years end you kinda feel
bad when they leave.”

She laughed about making the
boys who stole the posts in front
of the place several years ago

bo

Col AEL

.

come back and re-plant them
with their bare hands. “I
Jaughed at ‘em,” she said, “but
they didn’t stop coming back.
They faughed about it, them.
selves after it was over with.”
Hattie, Jr. illustrated the air
of informality at Hattie’s.
“There was a boy up hete the
other night came in the door
and said, ‘Hattie, get all these
drunks outta here.’ He wasn’t
drunk, and nobody else was
either,” she chuckled, “but she
grabbed him by the arm and Ied
him to the door.”

Diet

think a lot of Hattie and Hattie,
Jr. “There were some boys sit-
ting over there the other day
talking,” said Hattie, Jr., point-
ing toward the booths, “and one
of them got up and said, ‘Betty,
you know this boy said he
thought as much of you and
Hattie as he did his own moth-
er.’ It makes you feel good to
have somebody say something
like that.”

Spring Frolics, 1961, will find
Hattie’s helping Davidson stu-
dents celebrate dance weekend
for the 48th time. They'll drink
the brew, sing the rollicking
songs, and enjoy the good fel.
lowship once more. And maybe
some day the N. C. Historical
Society will erect a sign pro-

-¢ claiming “Hattie’s.”

AED And YMCA
Pian Symposium

“The Physician and Religion”
will be the subject of the joint
AED-YMCA symposium to be
held on April 26.

Dr. Livingston Johnston, a
physician from Shelby, and
Chaplain Willard Baxter of the
Gastonia County Hospital, Gas-
tonia, have been invited to
serve as guest speakers at this
meeting which will start at 8:15
in the Chemistry Lecture Room
of the Chemistry Building.

These two speakers will dis-
cuss the relationship between
religion and health, or more pre-
cisely, ‘‘show the connection be-
tween a physician and his pa-
tients concerning medical coun-
seling and religion. This is an
area which includes not only
physicians, but ministers and
counselors as well,” said Rick
Aderhold, president of the AED,
honorary pre-Med fraternity.

Since many illnesses have
been found to have psychoso-
matic origins, this program will
be of interest not only to pre-
Med majors, but also to psycho-
logy students and majors.”

Secretary Tom Harris| Adams to France. son students. This issue will be| given at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers | Economics. “It will be new,” Dr. Hattie has acted as a force for ? Mi 4 ba
Tr Herb Collins Major Robert W. Fleming, thei primarily literary in form and|Aauditorium and will feature | Hummel said, ‘in that it will not moderation upon occasion . “I issionaries
easurer 7 Commandant of Cadets here at| content. selections presented on the follow the method of study as|cut a boy off of beer one dance! (Continued From Page One)
Rush Chairman — - Jerry Bussell| Davidson, will leave this sum- Concerning its format, Charles . P . put forth by any economics | weekend,” she said. “I just told . . . ;
mer to go to language school at “ yee tour. This will conclude the! hook that I know of.” ' wi " ink been in touch with a Congo mis-
Monterey, Calif., from July to Cornwell stated, In this issue | year’s Fine Arts Festival. When asked if there was any him aa ree too much fo ae *|sion station via the ROTC de-
December. He will then be trans-|W® fe attempting to answer . | articular reason for choosing; 4e didn’t give me any trouble; | partment’s short-wave radio. He
PHI GAMMA DELTA ferred to Panama to serve under | Past criticisms that there are no The Male Chorus will end Sweetbriar, Dr. Hummel stated he just quit.” Apparently this/has not yet heard whether the
. . Lou Zirkle| tt Carribean Command. No re- creative writers at Davidson.” their semen activities med that its central Virginia location was enough to make him “stay | #Pplicants are looking for train-
President - Bar) placement for Flemming has) farlier this year the Sigma hi falicht of their partici ation will make it equally convenient, quit.” “If he’s ever drank anoth-|ing in teaching methods, or in
Recording Secret . Harry Brown | yet been named. An announce- ; : omer P P to visit his original home and|/er one, | sure don’t know it,” Subject matter.
ecording ary Upsilon honorary literary frater-| then will be a special program 4 : A . ; :
ment of the replacement for| iit, agreed to submit a section| presented for parents of the| the U- of Va. in Charlottesville. said Hattie. Martin said this week that
Treasurer . -—— Fred Lopp| both Major Fleming and Lt. Col. tor. Sci ts ‘N Pranks as their pr duatin al a P on Saturd © | since there is no summer school| “Yea, he drinxs Dr. Peppers|‘‘the prospects still seem reason-
Rush Chairman Tony Diaz|Hufford, who left Davidson P ; . oeaht meine 27 ss a | at Sweetbriar, Dr. Hummel plans | now,” put in Hattie, Jr. ably good that we wilt have two
~~ ROTC Department last spring, | defense to the claim that David-|mignt, May 27. to do some research there. Apparently, Davidson men boys here next year.”
are expected to be announced | 5°” has no literary talent. This
soon. section will be composed of
Pl KAPPA ALPHA _| A special year's extension was | sketches, short stories, and po-
granted Adams last year, al-| ems by Sigma Upsilon members. . —
President Al Cowan| though his regular tour of duty| ‘the poetry section will fea-| J . Fa
Vice President Bob McFarland | “25 to have ended at that time. ture a special section of poems
The extension was granted with-| 11 ion were written by Davidson
Secretary —. Buddy Cullum! out application. Adams will have y
Jack Hana !bee® at Davidson four years students, and collected and
Treasurer ack Hand Jen he completes his term as|edited by Ben Sparks. “This
Rush Chairmen Cam Davis and Sam Clarke | PMS. He came here in 1957 aft-| group contains the best students’
er serving as senior artillery! poetry I've seen in my four
advisor to the Royal Army in|years at Davidson,” said Corn-
Thailand. well. .
Pl KAPPPA PHI
President _.. : Pete Jorgensen The South's Fieriest
Secretary D. C. Gilley ' |
Treasurer —. Bruce King Litt | Rebel
Rush Chairman Earl Roberson In Full Color
|
SIGMA NU
President Bob Phillips ||| ra ~ | oes
Vice President Nick Daves »
Recorder Price Caldwell >
Treasurer _... Con Childress
we
Rush Chairman . John Aehler
SIGMA PHI EPSILON
President _.___ Warren Stephens
Vice President Bernard Swope
Recording Secretary Mel McKenzie '
Comptrolier Joe Weld e ;
Rush Chairmen Jim Tanner and Jerry Hopkins Massive voice for a missile base

in Charlotte, Devidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

FORGET, HELL!

11x14 inches
The original “FORGET, HELL!” Rebel Print
in Full Color with handy envelope ready to
mail to your Damnyankee friends. The per-
fect gift for every Rebel-Blooded Southern-
er. Get your copy at the STUD today!

Only

$1 ea.

(n America's space-age defense system, the order

total, high-speed communications , or of the day ie
And at Vandenberg Air Force Base, as elsewhere, General Telephone
& Electronics is carrying out the order with efficiency and dispatch,

Here the link to the system that mans the mighty Atlas missiles
Is a fully automatic 5,000-line dial telephone exchange. The “out.
side voice” that links the base with alert and command posts
throughout the world Is a multichannel microwave radio relay
“System capable of handling hundreds of telephone conversations,
teletype Messages and early-warning radar date simultaneously,

The communications equipment connecting Vandenberg Air Force
Base with the outside was designed, manufactured and installed
by our subsidiaries, Automatic Electric and Lenkurt Electric, and
ts operated for the government By Genera! Telephone of California.

This advanced high-speed system is expressive of the way General
Telephone & Electronics strives to serve the nation through better
communications — not only for national defense, but for homes,

business and industry as well.

GENERAL

TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS “Se
