FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1961

PAGE THREE

By JOHN SPRATT
Davidsonian Sports Writer
The ’Cat tracksters make

their final appearance of
the year today and tomor-
row in their annual South-

adeee na cdslniname dn weal Ne het ne NS a Wiens ede,
The highly touted Davidson Mile Relay team, from left to
right, ED KIZER, JOHN SHARP, ROGER BEEBE, and JOHN

his. see ages 6 Ba
HARRIS, loosen up for Southern Conference Meet being held
this weekend in Norfolk, Va. (Davidsonian Photo by Gene
Wells.)

aes a 2s sie

FURMAN FAVORED

Cindermen Sprint For Trophy
In Conference Meet At Norfolk

ern Conference Meet.

The season's climax is being
staged on neutral grounds, Nor-
folk, Virginia's Foreman Field,
in an attempt to attract larger
crowds. All events will be un-

der lights with trials Friday
night and finals Saturday night.

Coach Roger Thrift, finish-
ing his one-season fill-in stint
for Coach Heath Whittle,
takes to Norfolk a thirteen-

he has high hopes for dashmen
Ed Kizer and Bob Cordle, and
rightful confidence in the mile
relay foursome -—~ John Harris,
Kizer, Roger Beebe, ant John
Sharpe.

Sideline
Comments

By STEVE CLARK

mcn team that has compiled

three outdoor victories

against one heartbreaking
| loss to VPI, 71-69.

opinion, should cop a place in
the broad jump, John Childs in
the hop-skip-and jump, an¢

Although Thrift is not overly Keith Fraser in the high jump.

‘excited about 'Cat prospects for
winning the conference meet,

“But as far as winning goes,”
injects Thrift, “its going to be

‘aa tough. How we'll do, I don’t
J know; it’s almost impossible to
SAE'sand Delis iscze-

Thrift lists Furman, The Cit
adel, and VMI as likely vic-
tors, marking Furman for the

‘Vie For |-F Crown |

AN EXCITING YEAR

Going into the week of exams,
| either the SAE’s or Phi Delts
jare sure to be winners of the

best odds. However, illustrat-
ing the tissue-thin difference
between the top contenders,

Ne

. Hoping to extend a four
game winning streak, the
| Davidson baseball team col-
lides with a powerful Wake

'|Forest nine at 7:30 tonight

on the Mooresville High di-
amond.

The Deacons hold the aces
on a determined Wildcat squad.
They are currently riding third
place in the Atlantic Coast Con-
ference with a 94 loop record,
jand an overall 22-7 mark.
Their assault includes such

standouts as hurlers Bob
Plemmons, Jerry Galehouse,

On Line

WAKE FOREST IN MOORESVILLE

By MEL McKENZIE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

and Bob Muller; outfielders double-header with VPI.
Jay Franklin and Jerry Good- smashed Wake Forest, 21-5.
man and first baseman Roger Stevens tabbed Tom Harris
Coon. Coon recently smashed as the probable starting pitch-
the conference RBI record, er, with Tommy Hamilton
when he knocked in his 36th (5-5) and Graham Showalter
run. (1-2) ready for duty.

Last season the ‘Cats bowed
to the Deacs, 26-7, but better 0m last weekend's tour, Sat-
pitching and better balance “day's game with conference
have made Coach Tom Stevens’ leader Richmond was rained
crew a real threat, and the like. Ut, but Monday's game with
liness of another lop-sided game G®0rge Washington was played
is improbable. as Davidson triumphed, 42.

If comparative scores mean Stevens sent Hamilton, Har-
anything, Davidson split aris, and Showalter to the

who

}

‘the
c.

points respectively.

ter an exciting comeback in the
semi-finals. |

Sophomore Bobby Austell lost |
in the finals to Stuart. Levi of
The Citadel, but his semi-finals
vietory over defending cham-|
pion Ken Silverstone of George |
Washington proved his capabili-
ties.

Other brief singles results:
Andy Sherrill lost to Citadel's |
Jack Scott in the number four |

division; Doug Orr was ousted |

jny Varn of The Citadel in the|

semi-finals; Citadel's

Frosh Nine Show

Diamond Potential

| Coach Joe Hunt's freshman
baseball team finished its sea-
}son this week with a 6-5 record.
/Hunt is highly pleased with the
season's outcome, and states,
“Their competitive spirit, atti-

men Nab Second

3 In Loop Tournament

| By GEORGE PEPPER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last weekend, the Davidson tennis team played in
Southern Conference tournament in Charleston, S.
Host Citadel copped the event with 31 points, with
Davidson and William & Mary right behind at

number |
; two slot champion Rod Carlyle |tion as conference medalist, | fending champion, Thurmond
jbeat Finley Lee; and Citadel's | which
“——- | George Washington.

mound, with Showalter getting
the win. Ed Hines (3 for 4),
Harris, and Jerry Shelton paced
the hitting attack.

s Put Win Streak
In Tonight’s Finale

The ‘Cats now stand 64 in
the conference and 9-13-1 ov-
erall. Stevens cites as reasons
for the late season lunge,
“Ever since Georgia Southern
the boys have really played as
@ team. Hitting and defense
have improved tremendous-
ly.”

Hamilton and Harris have
been mainstays on the mound,
while Harry Cline, Russ Cotton,
and Harris have added punch at
the plate.

Cline leads the regular hit-
ters at .341, and Shelton has
rapped out .346 in less playing
time. Harris leads in RBI's with
16.

95

“0

and 18!
; many as “easy-going.”’

Golf Scores Soar;
VPI Captures Title

VPI succeeded Davidson as
Southern Conference golf king EXCITING COMEBACK
Tuesday and Wednesday at Rich-| The second round was a lit-
mond, Va. After a bad first |tle tougher. Facing Remy Aro-
day performance, Davidson | noff of William & Mary, Snead
managed to finish fifth. dropped the first set, 5-7; fought

Verner Stanley paced the|back from a 2-5 deficit in the
Wildcats with a 79-72—151, and/|second. set to win, 8-6; and

In order to capture his divis-
ion, Snead had to fight through
|three rounds of competition. In
the first match, he easily elim-
inated te Richmond entry.

Hugh Murray, in Thrift’s|/2Y "umber one champion Ben-|closed out a brilliant golf ca-| finished strong in the third set,
Lad + ~? '

reer at Davidson. However, Stan: | 6-0.

ley failed to retain his posi:} Snead upset his division's de-

went to Bob Haney of|Bishop of The Citadel; in

“Easy-Going’ Snead
Nets Two First Places

By JERRY TRAMMEL
Davidsonian Sports Writer
This week’s “Wildcat of the Week” is referred to by
Regardless of how “easy-going”
Junior Bobby Snead won. the number three champion Walter | this. Davidsonian may be, Bobby. Snead was talented
number five singles division af- Anderson downed Nick Cooper. | enough to take top honors in the number five slot at the
—- | Southern Conference tournament last weekend.

i straight sets, 9-7 and 6-2, for

the championship.

In addition to his singles’
championship, the six-foot jun-
ior from Richmond, Va., joined
with Bobby Austell and captur-
ed first place in the third di-
vision of doubles competition.

PRAISES MINTZ

Snead has nothing but praise
for Semi Mintz and his coaching
efforts this year. Says Snead,
“Semi. deserves a tremendous
amount of credit for our show
ing in the tournament.”

Snead is pre-med, and plans to
study medicine at The Medical
College of Virginia.

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT

— COLLEGE STUDENTS

Largest Company In Its Field Has Summer Employment For YOU. If Qual-

ified, Your
EARNINGS WILL BE

IN EXCESS OF $125.00 WEEKLY

| LF athletic trophy. the Purple Hurricane nosed |tude, and desire to play and|

The Citadel in their last meet |Win are factors contributing to

When the last lap of the mile relay is run tomorrow
on Norfolk's Foreman Field, thé athletic year 1960-61
will be Davidson College history.

It’s been an exciting year to say the least. According
to won-lost records, it hasn’t been a successful year for
old DC. And yet, hasn’t it? We believe it has. We tried to
pin-point our reasons for saying this and came up with

The Delts, defending champ-
tons seeking to retire the tro-
|phy after two straight years of |

| the latter will have to suffer 0D | performances mean anything.
; account of an ineligible partici- |

The Citadel is

by only a quarter of a point. | the season's success.”
: | Davidsom finished last in last | year
| triumph, have a slight edge over ‘year's meet, but should improve |John Baum, .375; Rick Smyre,
| the SAE’s due to a loss of points ; that standing if this  spring’s 361; and Tommy Whitley, .279.

| | Other promising men

App

‘.
2.

Top hitters for the year were

at ‘the
plate were Earl Cole, David

licants Must Be:

Neat in Appearance
Aggressive and Ambitious

Students selected will be eligible on
a local level for:

A) 30 CASH SCHOLARSHIPS

four characteristics of this year’s action in sports — up- ; enn
ris } spor’ | pant LF sw z meet. |
sets, strong finishes, close games, and a rise in school | ?*" —— Li ee ae in inerd 2D
spirit. | However, an SAE victory in | Champion, and their squad in- “eo cage a nee
, : jaral: individes j z ment,
One might call 1960-61 the year of the upset. If one softball and tennis could give |“lUdes several individual cham-) |" 0" Pulnk schir (2-2)
had witnessed only the VPI football game, the Wake |them the trophy. ferens ae Janet PONE NCE — TOO ie wesdaatans,
Forest basketball game, and the second baseball game| Both are currently in the race | Pugh, 100-yard and 220-yard | Defensively, Hunt cites third
with The Citadel, he’d call you a nut when you informed for the spring sports. Both have | gash champion, and John Rivers, | paseman Britt Smith and catch-
him that, none of the teams in the three major sports advanced from the first round | 440.vard dash king. ’ ler Eddy Earle as outstanding.
won more games than they lost. of the tennis round-robin.

On the other hand, if a guy saw only the Wofford foot-| I» the LF softball league, the
ball game, the Catawba basketball game, and the West | phj peits hold a slight edge via
Virginia baseball game, he’d think you were crazy when an g-1 record. The SAE’s have a_
you told him the three major teams won quite a few ball | 74 mark.
games.

Ironically, all three major athletic teams improved as
each season progressed, and all finished strong. The
gridders won two of their last three encounters; the cag-
ers swept five of their last nine; and the baseballers (wi
one game left to play) have triumphed in six of their last
eight contests.

It was a good year for the spectator. Many close games,
some decided in the last few seconds of play, kept fans
on the edge of their seats all year. The football team’s
heartb ing loss to Furman, 22-21, held Wildcat root-
ers spellbound for four quarters. The Citadel’s 74-73}
squeak over the Cat hoopsters in Johnston Gym was
another heart-stopper. And the baseball team’s amazin
20-19 come from behind victory over The Citadel thrill
the few remaining fans who stayed for the three-hour
marathon.

As a result of these other characteristics, the year
1960-61 saw a rise in school spirit at Davidson. The pep }
band, the welcome extended by students and faculty to
the football team when it returned from VPI, the full
and noisy gym on several occasions, and the frequent
razzing of visiting baseball teams are just a few ear-
marks indicating more interest in athletics.

As usual, the minor sports fared better than the major
ones. Soccer, probably the most outstanding of the min-
ors, attracted much attention after a 3-2 victory over
tough Duke. Cross-country, swimming, track, and tennis
completed good seasons, while wrestling and golf didn't
fare as well as expected.

An old saying goes: “You win a few, you lose a few,
and some of 'em are rained out.” And that’s what makes
up the wonderful world of sports. The desires to take
a chance, to do somethin thrilling. to be active, to taste
victory — these are healthy emotions everyone should |
have. They are as much a of the American way of
life as the desires for freedom, achievement, knowledge,

defending ‘Shade, L. H. Hutchens, and Leo-

B) One of many JET-PLANE TRIPS
AROUND THE WORLD

C) One of several AUSTIN-HEAL-
EY SPORTS CARS.

— WIN ONE OR ALL —

For Interview Appointments,
PHONE: 333-7906, CHARLOTTE
9 A.M. — 3 P.M.

ASK FOR MR. FELDMAN

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

Other softball contenders are
the Phi Gams (8-2) and the Kap-
pa Sigs (6-2).

The IMAC urges every team
to get its make-up games played
as soon as possible, and that the
winner of every game be posted
on the sheet at the equipment
check out room in the gym.

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE MEN
10-12 Week Summer Employment

YOU MUST
Be above average in appearance,
intelligence, aggressiveness
. Possess an open mind and willing
to follow instructions

BETWEEN MEALS... get that

refreshing new feeling with Coke!

COPYRIGHT ©) 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY COCA-COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS
nog Poe renames emer seqpese ene :

WE OFFER

1. Two Week Paid training
2. Excellent salary

3. Car Furnished (if qualified)
4. Excellent working conditions 3. Have drivers license
5. Continue part time next fall 4. Desire above average earnings

WE =e

$1000.00
CASH SCHOLARSHIPS
ee a
10 DAY PAID ~~ LONDON, ENGLAND

P 1

MGA SPORTS CAR

SALARY $56.50 to $96.50 PER WEEK

z.

2

and economical well-being. (Depending 6n qualifications)
fool was presented i the oh then fou iter] WORK IN OFFICE OF YOUR CHOICE —
y of yourself out if you're getting | os — —
culity i plat, Sak Ge te tee soon cf pour echeall Charlotte 376-6596 Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
mates in action on the athletic fields. i) Concord, North Carolina
