FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1961

A LOOK ~

SPORTS

By Bill Godwin

Getting To The Point (s)

BACK IN December a soft-spoken senior bowed grace-
fully from the basketball ‘spotlight. The season was to be
an anti-climax for Jast year’s leading scorer and many
local fans didn’t like it. But you can’t keep a good man
on the bench. Bill Shinn 6-4, 190, came roaring back
Monday night to save the ’Cats from shame. He hit eight
field goals, three foul shots and 19 total points (18 in the
second half) and the Wildcats went down fighting, 83-78,
before Richmond. Though they were defeated (for the
10th time in 14 games), the ‘Cats hit a new high in scor-

ing.

I SUSPECT the baskets were still hot from the fresh-
man game. Lanky center Terry Holland—fed by his
roommate Bill Beerman—had cooled in 44 points to give
Davidson a 100-45 win over Charlotte College. Mean-
while, Dean Ed White cracked a smug smile—and held
it till Frosh Coach Joe Hunt returned from a recruiting
trip later that night

boys, Joe, when you're away?” he teased.

Down For The Count

WITH THE good comes the bad. Cross-country run-
ner David Gilmour got up on the wrong side of a ski
last weekend, breaking his leg near the ankle and dash-
ing his track hopes for spring. And Big Bob (The Bird)
Moore, Davidson center. suffered an injury in practice
last week, will be out indefinitely with a ripped liga-
ment in his foot. Moore jokingly claims he was stepped
on by Coach Lefty Driesell. At any rate, if Mr. D. doesn’t
quit stomping his feet, he’s gonna have fallen arches.

AS THE season progresses, so does the accelerated
recruiting program of Driesell. Commenting on one pros-
pect, a 6-8 center from Indiana, he said, “This boy’s got
marvelous grades. He’s made only two B's (the rest A’s)
since he started to school. One was in the second grade
—the other this year in typing. His fingers are too big
for the keys.”

A Five-Spot Will Do It

TOM SCOTT, athletic director and a manager-of the
NCAA Eastern Regional Tournament, has a fistful of
tickets for the two-night playoff in Charlotte March 17-
18. He can get more if there’s a demand for them. The
ducats sell for five dollars per set, which includes ad-
mission for both nights.

DAVIDSON will be host Feb. 24-25 for the Western
North Carolina High School Wrestling Tournament. Dav-
‘dson Coach Charlie Parker figures Asheboro and Thom-
asville will be the teams to beat.

STUDENT BODY President Henry Shue is out for
track. . . He'll try for the 880 slot. . . The football field
has been burned off. . . Supposed to make the grass grow
greener. . . And they opened a letter from Pfeiffer this
week down at the gym. . . Said, “Here’s our basketball

rostrum’... .

CLEMSON ON TAP

“You see what I can do with these]

o ail celilaldteinaminacencencesne igi

Wildcat

team they “tisually beat.”

For the first time this season,

Davidson had a captain—senior
| heavyweight Cliff Thompson
from Lake City, S. C.

Next up is VPI and then VMI
lon a road trip’Feb. 16 and 17.
!'The Techmen, defending South
jern Conference champions, re
| main the team to beat, accord

ling to Davidson Coach Charlie
weaker,

| Parker. VMI, though

}will be a real challenge to the

| struggling Wildcats.

| Parker rates Virginia Tech
stronger than West Virginia,
a team which snuffed out
Davidson, 25-3, three weeks
ago. Junior Butch LeDoyen
managed the = only Wildcat
weight-class victory, a deci-
sion at 157.

Two days before, Thompson
had stood alone in Davidson's

Riflemen Set Sights On
3-5 Mark, Await Action

WANTS A TOWEL

Senior Don Harper and Jun-
ior Marvin Rozear, with their

consistency, brighten any hope.
However, McCurry, facing bad
and close prospects, says, “I'm
going to find a towel to chew
on.”

The Wildcats lost to PC Jan.
13, 1348—1340, ‘the worst we've
done ever!” Normal 'Cat firing
centers in the 1375-80 range.
Wofford, the hose won the

Wildcat rifle hopes are
like ‘‘a snowball in the sun”
says Coach Jim McCurry.
Explanation for the
slump has it that the boys
have been “‘snowed in acad-
emics” — labs and exams
worries.

Now Sgt. McCurry anticipates
improyement and more practice
time. First semester schedules
allowed only sketchy post-drill
sessions.

three-way match with 1365

points.

HIGH PRIZE
Matches coming up are with

shuffled line-up, played host this afte

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cagers Look

PAGE THREE

‘For “Breather”

VMI Contest Monday
Ends Long Homestand

By STEVE CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Coach Lefty Driesell and his hot and cold hoopsters
seek to better last season’s win production (five) tomor-
row night when the Falcons of Pfeiffer come to Johnston
Gymnasium for a non-conference skirmish, slated to be-
gin at 8 p.m.

The fray will immediately

follow the frosh game with the
Pfeiffer JV's

round-ballers, led by Bill Shinn’s
fantastic shooting,
back, but fell short

Four Davidsonians hit in the

bounded

Bill Jarman Stretches For Jump Shot .. .

s Take Emory
To Mats Here Today

The wrestling Wildcats, with a 2-3 record and a newly |tling Guilford for the North
rnoon to Emory, a/State Conference cellar.

victory circle with a decision at
177 as The Citadel racked up a
27-3 win.

“It was a good weekend for
the visiting teams,” said Parker.

“I knew we would: have a rough | guard

time.”

Davidson did not play VPI
last season because of the heavy
snowfall. And the Gobblers ap
pear to be stronger this year

“They'‘re getting a good crop
from fast year's freshman
team,” said Parker. “They
have one boy — Mike Gran-
staff—who made the team for
the first time this season as
a junior, just to show you
how tough Tech is. Granstaff
was a member of the 1960
Olympic team, so they had to
let him play this year.”
Meanwhile, back home, the
picture’s not so bright. Faced
with a void at 130 (sophomore
Ed Peel quit Davidson for the
Army), Parker has moved Tom-
Imy Wright from 123, putting
| Ken Barger in his old position.
|Phil Brown and Linton Wray
jwill fight it out for a vacancy
/at 147, which shoves LeDoyen
lap with Ben McCoy to decide
ithe 157 and 167 classes.

Harry Brown, formerly 167,
jis now at 177 and Thompson
replaces John Eggers at heavy-
| weight.

Last night, in a non-confer- gouyble figures: Shinn, 19; Bill
ence bout, the Wildeats broke Jarman. 18: Joe Markee. 16
a two-game losing streak with and Haywood: Evans, 14
a 72-65 victory over Wofford
before a crowd of 600 here. Jim HOPES STILL HIGH
Nuckolls found = his — scorins Despite the many: “alimost
touch and paced both teams ia’ seen ‘Sebeedlh panel
with 18 points. Bill Jarman and , ; $ :
Joe Markee had 17 apiece and optimistic. The young mentor

i stated, “We're disappointed, «

Bill Shinn hit 14

| pecially since ,six of our losses
|. Davidson led most of the way

have been by a total of only
lafter a rough opening, using the §.,
lf t} : ; hots — points, but we're not down
; bar yreak and easy layup snots
om sherpa re yuy We have five’ conference

jin the final minutes as Wofford

i became desperate

| “MUST” GAME MONDAY
Monday night the Wildcats

games left, and now that Shinn
has come around, we could be
tough.”

’Cats Hit Falcons Tomorro

play host to VMI in a “must”
leonference battle Then on
Thursday they hit the road for
ithe first time since Jan. 9, in
a return match with Pfeiffer at
| Misenheimer, N. C.

Tomorrow night's contest
|shoultl be a “breather” for the
\"Cats, who néed one in_ this

their third game of the week.
The Falcons are currently bat

ory University.

The first meet Monday in
Athens should be the toughest
of the three. The Bulldogs are
strong in the sprinting and re
lay events, while Davidson's
distance men should help swing

However, anything can hap
pen when the men in stripes
toss the ball at Davidson, and
Pfeiffer cannot be taken light-
ly, The Faleons place — their
|hopes on the shoulders of big
| Bobby Frank, a 6-9 center, and

Jerry McManus, who the balance

By CARL RUST
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The next day The Citadel
took its second victory in a
three-sport weekend sweep at
Davidson by nudging the
Wildcat swimmers, 50-45. (The
Building wrestlers defeated
Davidson, 27-3, while the cag-

~ . Then Cups His Hand For Rebound.

Davidson Faces Three
Swim Clubs In Georgia

bs The Davidson tankmen, ‘boasting a 3-2 record on the season, hit the road for
|Georgia next week for meets with the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech and Em-

It’s now late enough in the
season for the Wildcats to be
eyeing the school swimming
records. The 1960 team set
eight new records.

Captain Tom Hudgins is less
than two seconds off his record

|pumped in 25 against Catawba,| ‘Tuesday’s foe Georgia Tech “> took a 74-73 victory). time in the 440, while Barry

who downed the Falcons, 71-53. ! will be scrappy. Tech has won The Bulldog tankers. were Branch is just one second short

Davidson suffered double los-| five and lost one so far against forced to take the last event— of his record time in the 100

ses to the Indians isedioohe sehen: the 400 Free Relay-—for their Stefan. Young needs about
HAVE SAME DESIRE : winning margim four seconds to top his 1960

The VMI clash shapes up to Davidson hits Emory on Wed Davidson Coach Dwight Shoe record
|be a real thriller in every re nesday, The Atlantans are much sees The Citadel. as a_ likely Among the supporting. east,
spect... since ‘both teams are stronger this year than last Southern Conference champion, sophomores Carter Mébane and

fighting desperately to get into
the tournament
The Keydets, who nipped the

The Wildcats managed one
victory in two meets during
the Christmas-Exam interval,

conference

‘Cats in Lexington by four at! both at home.
dori ene aig = re In a close one Jan. 13, the|
arded an excellent shooting | ¢aifigh swung the first event—| In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
team. Driesell said, “Norm Hal |
sade aie | : the 400 Medley Relay—and held
rerstac ell rest : man, 18) 4) fora -48-46- win over South-| at the Famous Open Kitchen fora...
probably the best shooter’ in a ' : |
‘ Acca ern. Conference rival William |
ne COMSEr ene . _jand Mary. The relay time. of
Last Monday night, the ‘Cats », ;
4:24 was just. three seconds shy
tournament hopes were dimmed : :
: : of the school record
by Richmond, 83-78. Following
a ragged: first ‘half. the local Junior Stefan Young, a stand

out in the conference meet last

year, placed first in the 200
IMAC Slates Vote Butterfly and the 200 Breast: | 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.
stroke. Tom French's time of

2:31.45 was good enough to win
the 200 Backstroke.

On Rules Revision

The Intramural Athletic |
‘Council will vote at its Feb. 15 |
jmeeting on an extensive ath-|
lletic rules revision begun last |
ifall by a committee headed by |

| Worth Williamson. Sets Pa ce

At its bi-weekly meeting Wed. |

Bill Jarman

|

with VMI and VPI. The
Keydets trounced Davidson, 61
34, in December here

along

Chuck
assets,

swam

Frew have been great
though neither of them
as a freshman

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

JACKSON CLEANERS

Let Us Freshen Your Impression

|nesday, IMAC set the basket
ball schedule for next

Furman, Citadel, and Clemson.
McCurry tags these as “tough.”
Military-trained Citadel is a
high prize for any team to beat.

| Trackmen
vobeat| Start Drills ::«:
The Wildcats bout Clemson | ball (Feb. 13).

Feb. 24, Davidson defeated the, Indoor track practice started, fp. Kappa Sigs and SAE’s
Tigers earlier this year. But, | Monday with three coaches on) ay tied for first place in
says McCurry, “They won't let | hand in the absence of Heath’ pacpetball standings with 2-0
that happen again, if they can | Whittle, on sabbatical leave. records. No games have been
help it.” Coach Roger Thrift and his played since Dec. 12.
assistants Prof. Max Polley and - For the remainder of the sea
Chaplain George Staples must con only two weekdays—Wed
whip the team into shape for nesday and Thursday—will
the first of three meets Feb. open for basketball games, be
18—the Big “5” Meet at Chapel | cause of conflicts with varsity
Hill (Davidson, Duke, North ang freshman basketball prac
Carolina, N. C. State and Wake ‘tice times. Friday has
Forest). jruled out for any
“We haven't had the whole sports scheduling
squad together for practice,”; The ryles vote, if affirm-
Thrift said this week. The coach | ative, would relax many re-
said he was assigned to the job! strietions on player elegibili-
less than a month ago and calls! ties, according to IMAC Vice
himself “coordinator” rather | President John Ricks. It would
than coach. | also patch many loopholes ex-
“We would welcome anyone) isting in current rules.
who'd like to come out for

track,” he said. In a move this week, IMAC

i _ |ruled that no student will lose
As things shape up at this intramural eligibility by parti-
|) point, the dash events will have cipating in the Big “5S” Wrest-
it over the distance ones. Sen- jing Meet Feb. 18.

ior Ed Kizer and sophomore
Bobby Cordle will run the 100,
while senior Roger Beebe should
nail down the 440 slot. An-
other distance man—David Gil-
mour—broke his leg in a ski-
ing mishap last week. The complete standings:

Dr Polley will supervise the SAE’s (wrestling champs) 391,
sprinters and Dr. Staples willKA’s (swimming champs) 294,
look after the distance men. Phi Delts 285, Betas 269, Kappa

One week after the Big “5"Sigs (flickerball champs) 262,
Meet is the Southern Confer-Phi Gams 243, Sigma Chis 222,
ence Meet at Lexington, Va.,SPC’s 214, Pi Papps 211, ATO’s
with defending champion The173, Pikas 161, Independents
Citadel. 150, and Sigma Nus 131.

In overall intramural stand-
ings, including flickerball,
SAE’s lead the second-place
KA’s by almost 100 points.

-: On Boards

|and fixed: the starting dates for
|handball (Feb. 18) and volley

be

been
intramural

During
MID WINTERS
Bring Your Laundry and Dry

“Easy does it—while no one’s
looking.” That's. Bill Jarman,
our “Wildcat of the Week.”

Never a player for pretenti-
ous display (he lopes down the
court like a. bone-tired farm-
hand), Jarman as a sophomore
center has developed into Dav- }
idson’s most: consistent shooter
and rebounder, with the
sible exception of senior
Markee

Both have come a long way
this season. Markee and Jar-
man are one-two in almost
every statistical category: not-
ably scoring and rebounding.

Coach Lefty Driesell feels
that Jarman is reaching his
peak. “He'll be tough from here
out.”

| Cases in point: In two games
jopposite William & Mary's All-
|Conference center Jeff Cohen
|(6-8), Jarman (6-5) held him to
{24 points all told, while scor-
ing 26 himself. Two weeks after
the second game, Cohen sank
33 as the Indians upset VPI.

In his best game of the sea-
son three weeks ago, Jarman
had 28 points to pass Markee's
previous high of 25. In defeat
against Richmond Monday, he
scored 18 points (eight of nine
from the foul line) and. grabbed
11 rebounds.

A red-headed Gastonian, Jar-
man has been burned many
times this season by Driesell’s
brush fires. But it’s paying off,
ae he gains experience, in per-
sonal performance, if not on |}
the won-lost record.

Cleaning To Us

JACKSON CLEANERS

Main Street

pos
Joe

For Your Saturday Night Meals Come To

STONESTREET'S CAFE

450 S. Main — Mooresville

Steaks — Chops — Sea Food
Cold Beer

Private Dining Rooms

Open 24 Hours Every Day
A Fine Place To Gather
After Mid Winter's Parties

