FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1962

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IVY-LEAGUERS PLAY HERE TOMORROW AT 1:30 P.M.

Sideline
Comments

By STEVE CLARK

A NEW CONCEPT OF DAVIDSON
BASKETBALL — VICTORY

TOMORROW night’s NCAA finals in Louisville, Ky.,
will officially bring to a close the 1961-62 college basket-
ball season.

For Davidson College the season ended on March 1.
However, even though Lefty Driesell & Co. didn’t win
any championships or bring home any trophies, it was a
good year for basketball on our campus.

This year’s cage contingent did quite a few things
that no other Davidson five has been able to do in the
past. A few of the school records set this year include
the 12-game winning streak, the 110 points scored against
Mississippi College, and the overall team free throw per-
centage of 72.8 for a season.

Furthermore, this year’s team compiled the best
record that a Davidson team has had since 1949, beat
the runner-up (Clemson) of the Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence tournament, got into the Southern Conference

tournament for the first time since 1959, and finished |

higher (fifth) in the conference than any Wildcat team
has done in the Good Lord only knows how long.

In addition, this year’s frosh quintet instilled a whole
new concept of basketball into the minds of the average

Davidson student. Seeing basketball played as they had}

never seen it played before, the typical Davidsonian
discovered that watching a Davidson team in action could
be lots of fun and that victory is not an idealistic concept,
but, instead, something very tangible.

Driesell undoubtedly has a better nucleus with which
to work next season than any other Wildcat coach has
had in the past. But the Wildcat mentor is not making
any rash statements concerning next year’s possibilities,
even though a sly smile reveals his inward confidence.

For example, “How many games are we going to
win next year, Coach?” we inquired.

“Oh,” he retorted, “‘we ought to have a pretty good |

season, We should: be a little better than we were this
year. Of course, I like to think we can win ’em all.”

“What about a championship club?” we beamed.

“Well,” he drawled, “I thought we could win it this
year, remember? But we didn’t. Who knows? Maybe next
year we won't even get into the tournament!”

Despite these, to be frank, understatements, we got
the feeling as we walked out of this man’s office that next
ear is going to be a big year for Davidson on the basket:
ball court. Certainly it will be one of the biggest chal-
lenges a Davidson team has ever faced schedule-wise.
Duke, Wake Forest, West Virginia, and Cincinnati are
among our opponents next year. The latter, the Cincinnati
Bearcats, who will be played on December 22 up there,
just may be national champions following this weekend’s
games in Louisville.

We also got the feeling that Lefty Driesell is a man
doing a man’s job. With a good crop of freshman en-
rolled this year and only three full scholarships available
for next year, it would be tempting to slack off recruiting.
But on his blackboard are dozens of names of, you can be
assured, top-notch high school cagers. The three scholar-
ships won’t be wasted.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

Top 3 I-F Cage Teams:

’Cats Host Tourin

WHIFF! — The sound of a swishing bat fills the air as GRAHAM SHOWALTER takes a
healthy cut during batting practice this week. But the ball settled snugly into the mitt of
catcher HARRY CLINE when Showalter missed. The baseball team entertains Yale tomorrow Saturday with an 8-5 win over|
afternoon at 1:30. (Staff Photo by McCutchen).

K Sigs, Fijis, and KA’s

The Kappa Sigs, Phi
Gams, and KA’s were firm-
lly established as the top
‘three fraternity basketball
| teams this week.

The busiest of these three was
}the KA’s, who put on .a tre-
mendous stretch drive of six
straight wins to finish their
schedule with a 93 _ record,
clinching third place in the I-F
standings

The Kappa Sigs, who have a!
ready clinched the title with an
11.0 record, were idle, while the
Phi Gams, who own a 9-2 record
and who may have to share sec
ond place with the KA’s depend
ing on the outcome of _ their
|/Monday night battle with the
SAE's, won by forfeit. over. the
Pi Kapps.

This week's I-F checklist:

On Tuesday the KA’s rolled
over the Phi Delts, 67-48, be-
hind the following four double
figure men: Rick Smyre (21),
Haynes Kelly (17), Sam Grimes
(13), and John Sharp (11), Dan
Calhoun and Net Harris paced
the Delts’ attack with 14 and 12,
respectively.

On Wednesday the KA’s clip-
ped the Independents, 47-41. In-
dependent Mark Dunn, the
league's top scorer, hit 19.

The following schedule for
Monday night, March 26, will
complete I-F basketball action:
7 p.m. - SAE vs. Phi Gam; 8:30
p.m. - Pi Kapp vs. ATO and
Kappa Sig vs. Sigma Chi.

I-F CAGE STANDINGS
Ww

Kappa Sigs 11
Phi Gams
KA’s
ATO’s
Sigma Chis
Independents
Phi Delts
SAE’s
Betas
Pikas
Pi Kapps
Sig Eps
Sigma Nus

IAavasseonvor

CorerN SPUN 4514510 6

noe OO

od

TOP TEN I-F SCORERS
Mark Dunn, Ind 18.3
Paul Duvall, ATO 17.5
Johnny Rogers, KS 17.3

David Johnson, Ind 16.4
Jim Fuller, KS 15.6
Ed Hines, SAE 14.3
Earl Cole; Ind 14.3
Rick Smyre, KA 14.2
Tommy Hamilton, Beta 14.0

13.5

George Sledge, ATO

Golfers Match Duke
In Charlotte Mon. |

Following an opening vic- |
tory over High Point College, |
the Davidson golf team faces
stiffer competition this coming
Monday when they entertain
Duke's highly regarded chippers
at the Myers Park Country Club

The Blue Devils, ranked sec-
ond only to powerful North

Yale

The Davidson College
baseball team _ entertains
Yale University’s touring
sluggers tomorrow §after-
noon at 1:30 on the local
diamond.

The Bulldogs, who came
south in search of sunny skies,
are playing such teams as Wake
Forest, North Carolina, and
Camp Lejuene on their trip.
This past Tuesday the = Ivy-
Leaguers clobbered Camp Le-
juene, 19.2

This afternoon on the home
field the ‘Cats sought revenge
against a Catawba team that
beat them, 12-6, this past Wed-
nesday in Salisbury

The Indians took advantage of
several Davidson errors, which
paved the way for five runs. |
Tommy Hamilton's two hits led |
the ‘Cats at the plate, while|
Jim Moore was effective during |
a brief relief role on the mound. |

}
Coach Tom Stevens club suc-!
cessfully opened its season last;

Pfeiffer at Davidson

UP AND OVER — Davidson's ace high jumper, KEITH
FRASER, scissors over the bar, which is resting at 6-2, during a)

workout this week. The track team opens its schedule Monday) record into the

Carolina in this state, are con-| at 3 p.m. against Catawba on the local track. (Staff Photo by Mc-
sidered among the nation’s bet- Cutchen).
ter college golf teams.

Paced by junior Frank Mc-|

Phillips, the ‘Cats overcame |
High Point this past Monday on
the Blair Park course in High |
Point, 16-11. After nine holes |
of play, MePhillips’ opponent, |
Stan Kinney, had him 1-0, but
the Wildcats’ number one man |
rallied on the back nine for a/|
2-1. vietory.

MecPhillips was also the day’s |
medalist. The Mobile, Ala., na-|
tive fired a 41-36—77 for hon-|
ors, and was trailed by the Bi-'
son's Kinney, who was two |
strokes off the pace at 39-40.
79. |

Other point getters for Dav-
idson were Haywood Evans,
Tommy Neal, and Mims Rogers,
all of whom defeated their op-|
ponents, 3-0. Frank Tulloch and |
Bob Porter were beaten by their |
opponents, 3-0.

In team play McPhillips and |
Tulloch teamed up to tie High |

‘Point's top two players, 144-114. |

Evans and Neal combined for a}
3-0 team win, while Rogers and |
Porter lost by a 2%-'% score. |

GOLF JACKET by

LONDON FOG

It’s all the jacket you need!
Water and wind repellent...
wrinkle resistant. Tailored of
Calibre Cloth, an exclusive
super blend of Dacron and
and fine combed cotton. Un-
conditionally washable...
drip-dries ready to go. With
convertible English collar
that buttons up for rouch
weather. Color: Sizes: $15.

Rush Wilson,

ath.

McCutchen).

Springtime is not so rosy for everyone. For Davidson College's football players and for
college gridders throughout the nation, for instance, it is a time for hard knocks and bruises.
For rising sophomore football players the annual spring drills present a chance to get the inside
track on open positions left vacant by seniors. Here freshmen WILL JACKSON (centering) and
TOMMY WORRELL (foreground) listen to quarterback EARL COLE call signals. (Staff Photo by

THE BELL TELEPHONE
SALUTE: DON PICKARD

Soon after his return from the Army.two years ago, Don
Pickard ,began managing a telephone public office in
Chicago. Because of his skill in handling the public rela-
tions tasks of this job, Don was transferred to a new job
in the Public Relations Department. Here his public office
experience comes in very handy as he works with other

Resembling the famous Pancho Segura, Wildcat netter
BILL BACKLUND makes use of both hands to swat the ball in
doubles action against Pfeiffer on Tuesday. Playing the nets is
JOHNNY ARIAIL. Backlund and Ariail defeated their opponents,
6-3, 7-5, and Davidson won the match, 5-2. (Staff Photo by Mc
Cutchen).

M. | T.and Purdue Plan

Busy Week For Netters

BY BILL PRIDGEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's tennis team will see plenty of action this
coming week when Purdue’s netters, looking for a week
of practice in a warmer climate, spend their spring holi-
days on this campus. They plan to arrive at Davidson on
Sunday and remain until Friday.

Along with its practice ses The results of the Pfeiffer
sions, Purdue has a regulation match are as follows: Barry
}match scheduled against the McGee (P) def. Bobby Austell,
‘Cats on Thursday afternoon. 6-0, 7-5; Bobby. Snead’ (D) def.
Davidson Coach Harry Fogle- Brown Gardner, 64, 6-0: Bob
man ranks the Boilermakers as Hartness (D) def. Boyd Stokes
| “one of the better teams in the 6-0, 6-2: Bo Strain (P) def. Gene
} Big Ten Conference.” McCutchen, 7-5, 64; and Joe

M.1.T,’s tennis team will Wolfe (D) def. Carol Nass, 6-0

also’ pay a visit to Davidson 6-1
this week for a match with
the ‘Cats netters on Wednes-
day afternoon. Fogelman said
that he had little knowledge
of the strength of M.I.T. They
met Davidson here two years
ago and took the ‘Cats, 6-3.

Davidson will carry a 1-1
M.LT. match.
This past Tuesday the ‘Cats
downed Pfeiffer, 5-2, but yester-
day fell to a powerful Michigan
team, 6-1.

Doubles action went as fol-
lows: Johnny Ariail and Bill
Backlund (D) def. McGee and
Gardner, 6-3, 7-5; and Hart-
ness and Wolfe (D) def. Strain
and John Stokes, 6-2, 6-1.

Incidentally, Wolfe's. singles
opponent was a young lady
However, Wolfe showed no
chivalry on the court by prompt-
ly downing her and by allowing
State her only one game in two sets

COMPANIES

+

departments of the company to promote the kind of service
that lives up to customer expectations.

Don Pickard of the Illinois Bell Telephone Company,
and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies
throughout the country, help bring the finest communica-
tions service in the world to a growing America.

(@)) BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

gr
go
aN é
ap

TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE MONTH __
