FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1962

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

“Little” Man Takes Top

Who is the most outstanding individual performer

in any sport at Davidson?

Unless you knew more about
him, you would hardly suspect
that it could be possibly be that
small, slender boy who rides the
unicycle all over campus. In
fact you would be more prone
to think that the only thing that
he could have a chance to win
would be a smallest boy on cam-
pus contest (his 110 pounds does
make him a top contender in
this category).

However this same boy, who,
in case you haven't guessed yet,
is Sterling Martin, is the star of
the 'Cat cross-country team, and
is currently headed for his third
straight All-Conference berth
in that sport. This will make
him one of the few athletes in
Davidson's history to be a three-
time All-Conference choice.

Tuesday Martin again broke
the new cross-country course
record in a tri-match with Rich-
mond and Pembroke, leaving all

other runners far behind him.
Martin’s time for the match was
22:12, and for this outstanding
performance he was chosen for
“Wildeat of the Week” honors
this week.

Cross-country coach Heath
Whittle had only praise for

Martin, saying that he was the’

finest runner that he had coach-
ed in over fifteen years. In
speaking of Martin’s perform-
ance Tuesday he said that Mar-
tin could easily have passed the
two minute mark, but that he
just wasn’t pushed.

Running so lightly that he al-
most looks like he was floating,
and with a sprig of grass that
can always be seen out of the
corner of his mouth, Martin
makes one of the most grueling
of all sports look easy.

He makes up with stamina
what he lacks in size.

J HIGU LIGHTS
 SIDELIGHTS

BY BILL PRIDGEN

and

ss

x

a

A TIRED MARTIN

Whittlemen Meet VMI

; 286 win

VMI, invade Charlottesville

Virginia enters the fray with
three wins and only a 20-15 de-
'feat at the hands of Virginia

\| Tech marring its record. Among

Cavaliers’ victories are a
over the Wildcat’s
tormentor of last Saturday, VMI,
and a 19-7 conquest of William
and Mary, who tied Davidson

the

|

Wednesday At Lexington

BY DENNY PHILLIPS

Sports Staff Writer |

The Davidson cross-country team will trek to Lex-
|ington, Va., next Wednesday to run the harriers of the |

Virginia Military
3-3 season record against a

ry Institute. The ’Cats will be putting their

strong VMI team.

Both Cavaliers A
Seek Fourth Win Tomorrow

Davidson’s Wildcats, licking their wounds after last Saturday's 20-7 lashing by

Cavaliers. Game time is 1:30 p.m.

| over Wake Forest last week,

IN VIRGINIA’S NEW STADIUM

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Sports Staff Writer

tomorrow to battle the University of Virginia’s rising

Last week Virginia defeated anchors the forward wall. Ac-

its Atlantic Coast Conference cording to Coach Dole, “Gra-
foe, Wake Forest, 14-12. ham is one of the best tackles
Biéetiben new hes 0 961 in the Atlantic Coast Confer-
record, with wins over Cataw- —
ba, Wofford, and Presbyter- Virginia's coach Bill Elias,
ian, losses to The Citadel and who is last vear's Atlantic Coast
VMI, and a tie with William Conference Coach of the Year,
and Mary. last year led his team from the
Wildcat head coach Bill Dole doldrums of major college foot-
hesitated to predict the outeome ball when the Cavaliers compil-
of tomorrow's gime and ventur- ed a 46 record. Under Elias,
ed only to say that his team will the Cavaliers broke a disastrous
“give ‘em the best we've got.” 28 game losing streak, the long-
In seven previous encounters ¢st in the history of major col-
with Virginia, Davidson has lost lege football
six games and tied one. The last For the first time this year,

Senior Kent Tucker will be

game of the series was played
Starting at quarterback for

in 1921 and won by the Cava-

liers 280. A 55 tie in 1907 the Wildcats. He replaces
marks the only time Davidson Junior Earl Cole, who was vic-
has scored against the Virginia timized for four interceptions
team. against VMI.

Assistant coach Dwight Cole has completed 32 of 82

passes this year, with seven in-
terceptions, and Tucker has
completed 9 of 16, with one in-

Shoe, who scouted the Cava-
liers in their homecoming win

ACTING AS THIS WEEK'S co-captains, BILL DOLE (kicking)

There is definitely a tone of optimism in the voices
of most of Davidson’s coaches when they talk of their
team’s prospects for the coming year, leading us to be-
lieve that this will be a good year for athletics. Almost
every sport can hope to at least equal the record they had

last year.

Judging from the evidence we can gather this trend
towards more “ ess’ at Davidson could easily be
a tendency which will extend at least for several years
into the future, due to a large number of freshmen and
sophomore athletes, among whom there are many

really outstanding performers.

Coach Heath Whittle said “It out of the first nine places.

should be a good meet. Our boys
are ready for them.”

Last Friday the Davidson run-
ners journeyed to Furman and
ran well against last year's
Southern Conference cham-
pions. Dennis Patterson, Fur-
man’s ace runner, set a new
course record of 20:18 for the
flat 4 mile course. Sterling Mar-
tin, Davidson's No. 1 man, fin-
ished second in 21:45 to suffer
his first defeat of the year. Fur-
man won by the rather slim

There are several tangible factors involved in this| margin of nine points, 23-32

oo]

rise in ability on some of our teams. In tennis this “factor

| (low score wins).

is Coach Harry Fogleman, nationally known tennis coach, | The past Tuesday Davidson
who came to Davidson last year from Cincinnati. Al- | completely outclassed the run-
though Fogleman’s efforts probably won't show up t0O/ners from the University of
well this year, because of losing four of last year’s six top | Richmond and Pembroke to win
men, it won't be long before he builds a powerhouse Of @\_ decisive victory here. The

squad.

Fogleman, with his name as a drawing card, has |
recruited as fine a bunch of freshman netters as Davidson '
has ever seen, and the indications are that he will be able
to-continue drawing good boys. This year’s freshman
standouts are Dick Hurd, Woody Cleviand, Bill Council,
Jeff Franks, and Jim O’Callaghan.

There are several sports where sophomores are mak-;
ing or will be making up almost the whole squad, thus
assuring a strong team for years to come. Coach Heath
Whittle’s harriers are one of these teams. Five fast sopho-
mores make up the bulk of his squad, although they can!
never quite catch Sterling Martin, who is the team’s only |
senior. In golf, Coach Tom Scott reports that the greater
part of the strength of the team will be taken from last.
spring’s fine freshman team. Macky McClelland, Tom)
Romoda, Albert James, Jim Cooper, and Billy Ross
all have a good chance to earn starting berths.

By far the best known bunch of ex-freshman athletes ‘

are those that belonged to last year’s famous freshman
basketball team, probably the best freshman team in
Davidson's history. Coach “Lefty” Driesell will make ex-
tensive use of these sophomores in trying to improve last
year’s 14-11 record, facing the toughest schedule of any |
Davidson team. This schedule includes national champion
Cincinnati.

But Davidson’s good basketball teams won’t stop
even when these current sophomores graduate. We un-
derstand that Dick Snyder may prove to be just as good
as, if not better than, any of the current varsity players.
Ronnie Stone is another tremendous basketball player.

These aren’t the only sports that could be mentioned.
Coach Charlie Parker reports that this year’s wrestling
squad should be better than the one that came out with a
7-3 record last season (the best in any varsity sport).

We interpret this trend, if it really is a trend, to be a

good . From all indications the overall record of all
sports ear should be better than last year, and next
year tiemniibane an don it over this year. The con-
tinued in of excellent coaches plus continued
and student participation in the

athletic pro-
gram could lead to a new era in sports at Davidson.

Sterling Martin, setting a new |
course record everytime he)
runs, lowered the time for the |
4 mile course to 22:12. He was
ably assisted by
Dennis Phillips, Chester Davis,
and John Barrow, and junior
Tim Spiro.

The Davidson freshman team
has been active also. They lost
to the Furman freshmen by the
score of 22-33. Then they got on |

sophomores |
|

the right track and defeated |
runners from the University of
Richmond and North Mecklen-
burg High School last Tuesday.

Andy Little finished in second
place, running the two-mile
course in 11:03.

Steve Gill finished third and
was followed by Harry Blakes-
lee, John Lewis, and Bill Briggs.

commented, “Virginia has a
well-balanced attack. The
team has good offense, good

| defense, and a lot of depth.
{ It has few standout weak-

nesses.”

Powerful fullback Ted Rzen-
poluck is the workhorse of the
Virginia backfield. “He looks
very good and they run him
quite a bit,” observed Shoe.

Quarterbacks Gary Cuozzo

| and Carl Kuhn pilot the Cava-

lier attack. Both are efficient
ball handlers and accurate
passers. The top halfbacks are
Bobby Freeman and Doug
Thompson, who had a 4.2 yard
rushing average last year.
With lettermen at every posi-
tion, the Virginia line is solid.
Massive Dave Graham, a tackle,

—--

| Davidson thinclads took seven
|

oe

C/

‘Cats. (Staff Photo By Joe McCutchen)

Booters Take 2-2 Record
To Guilford Tomorrow

Tomorrow afternoon Davidson's soccer team carrys a 2-2 record to Greensboro, N. |
C., to battle the Guilford College booters. The 'Cats record was evened last Monday

BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

when they lost to a powerful Duke team here, 5-0.
Guilford has just recently against them, and lost badly. A

taken up the sport, but none-the-

less seems to have a tough team.

while the 'Cats barely managed
to squeeze. by them, 1-0.
Last year Davidson fielded a

team of reserves and freshmen

WIN!

CONSOLE

RULES —
1) Contest open to all students

of 5 points — Each empty pa
or Commander will have value of 10 points.

3) In order to quality, each entrant must have 15,000
WHO WINS —

number of points.

Marlboro Contest
BEAUTIFUL 19 INCH MOTOROLA TELEVISION

2) Each empty padings of Marlboro, Alpine or Parliament will have value
ckage submitted of Phillip Morris Regular

1) Any group, fraternity or individual who qualifies and has the highest

CONTEST ENDS ON NOVEMBER 9, 1962 AT 1:30

Points.

large part of last year’s Guil-
ford team were foreign ex-

They defeated Appalachian 5-2, change students.

Coach Harry Fogleman has
expressed concern over
whether. goalie Jim Bulle
would be able to play in the
game. Bulla suffered a head
injury while trying for a div-

Last Saturday night the Wild-
| kitten gridders stunned a strong
Furman Frosh squad 140 in
taking their first decision of the
| year.
| Quarterback Sid Tompkins
; scored both touchdowns, one on
'a quarterback sneak and one on
a bootleg play. The touchdowns
were scored in the second and
fourth quarters. Dick Terry
| kicked both extra points.
| Coach Donald Threlkeld was
pleased with the way the 'Kitten
line contained the Furman of-
|fense, stopping it once on the
ten yard line and once on the
| five.
| Threlkeld called the game “a
/real team effort.” The ‘Kitten
| victory was all the more pleas-

ing save in the Duke game, -

—

SOPHOMORE BOOTER HOWARD MORRIS tries to take the ball away from No. 15, a Blue |
Devil forward in Monday’s game against Duke. Duke won the game 5-0, literally overpowering the \Jimmy Hendrix, center Eddy

and has had dizzy spells. The
rest of the team seems to be
in good shape.

Despite the lopsided score,

Fogleman appeared pleased with

his team’s efforts in the Duke

game. “The boys really put out.
We used a crazy defense in
which we almost always had two
men in the goal.”

Duke Coach Jim Bly told
Fogleman, “Your defense in
the first half was so good and
so confusing that | was con-
cerned about the game.” (The
Bive Devils are undefeated
and number Navy among
their victims.)

However, in the second half,
the extra running caused by this
defensive tactic got to the full-
backs and halfbacks. Duke
scored four more goals to turn a
close game into a rout. “The
boys simply ran out of gas,”
lamented Fogleman.

terception. He was one of Dav-

and BRITT SMITH, strike a pose. DOLE is a junior from Davidson.

#; The main cogs in the Kappa

idson’s few bright spots Satur-

day, tiauminn tesevily in the lene SMITH is also a junior from Winston-Salem, N. C.
Wildcat score.
Halfback Pat Fisher willnot | SOUTHERN CONFERENCE STANDINGS
make the trip due to an in-
jury, and Dick Vorhees, a Conference All Games
guard, is on the doubtful list. : WwW L T Pet. W L T Pet.
‘Next week Davidson's grid- } Va. Military 3 0 0 1.000 38:0: 360
ders will do battle with the Fur- W. Virginia 2 0 0: 1a 5 0 0. 1.000
man Paladins at Richardson W&M 8.0.4: awe 321° 2
Field. The Paladins have drop- The Citadel . a oe .500 3..3°°0 .500
ped their last four contests this Va. Tech ; 2s. aa 3:3.0 te
year after winning their first Geo. Wash. 13 0 20 S$ 38 0 a
two games. Last year they skin- Davidson o 3 @ 2a oe ee ee
ned the ’Cats 45-19. Richmond 02:0 2 3 0 40
Furman .. 2: 2 2 4 0 838

Kappa Sigs Take
Flickerball Lead

Possessing undoubtedly the
highest scoring flickerball team
ever assembled at Davidson, the
Kappa Sigs rolled to their
eleventh straight win, and vir-
tually clinched this year's title
as the previously unbeaten
Betas were upset by the Sigma
Chis in intramural action this
week.

Frosh Take

The field day consisted of five

This afternoon the classy Sig:
classy Sigs events. These were track, ten-

battled the Betas as they closed

: ; nis, volleyball, tug-o-war, and
out their season in hopes of an = Nn

: track. The scoring on these
unblemished record and sole tite was an Allows
possession of the flickerball

title. Last year the Kappa Sigs
and Betas shared the champion-
ship.

Fogleman Cuts
During Fall Practice

Tennis coach Harry Fogleman,

Sig machine this vear have been
tailback Johnny Rogers, half-
backs Johnny Almond and Bud-
dv Dubose, ends Harry Tart and

after observing fall tennis prac

tice has cut his varsity down to
[ Sete, and guard Rick Lowery./ eleven men. Fogleman says: he
To vt j } 1 6 i
Top reserves include Howard] plans to retain a traveling squad
| Arbuckle, Frank Tulloch, Dur of seven or eight for his twent
wood Settles, Jamie Bryant, 5 . psi vf
| Woody iia end game schedule next Spring.

player-
“— = _— The members of the varsity

icke’ . 2 ;
all season will end) tennis squad are Johnny Ariail,

next week with the next LF Bot .
sport to be wrestling, scheduled | 3° Austell, Frank Baumgard-|

for November 12-13. ner, Bill Bachlund, Fred Lopp,
Results of this week's action| Gene MeCutchen, Dave Orr,
lare as follows: Rick Reid,” Bill Schutt, — Bill
MONDAY Wideman, and Joe Wolfe. The

Kappa Sig 56, Pi Kapp 6. squad will continue practicing
Sigma Chi 13, Beta 12. until the weather prohibits it.

SAE 38. Independent 31. Coach Fogleman is now in the

Phi ‘ies a ‘aes process of cutting the freshman
KA 56, Pika 0. squad. The freshmen are play-

ing a double elimination tourna-
ment to establish who will be
on the squad.

Kappa Sig 95, Sigma Nu 0.
ATO 24, Sigma Chi 20.
THURSDAY

Sophmores

In Annual Field Day

On Wednesday the Freshmen won the annual fresh-
man-sophomore field day by a score of 61-52, according
to Spud Steward, freshman advisor.

Basketball — 35 points
Tug-o-war — 20 points

Volleyball — 20 points
Tennis 5 points
Track — as many points as

each team scored.

| The sophomores had to for-

fit 25 points when they were un-
jable to organize either a tug-o-
| war or tennis team and hence
|had to forfit both events.

| The freshmen were able to
mount an easy victory in the
volleyball event. In a best of
i three series the frosh won 21-4,
21-6.

The sophomores proved their
strength in the track events,
however, being able to nip the
frosh 17-16 in a close contest.

Allan Turner proved to be
the sophomores’ big gun, pick-
ing up six potnts for a first in
the 100 yard and 220 yard
dashes. Greg Gates and James
Bryant each picked up four
points for the frosh.

In the basketball game the
sophomores again emerged vic-
torious, dropping the freshman
basketballers, 78-63.

Fred Hetzel towered over
everyone in the game, picking
up most of the rebounds. Sever-
al freshmen also looked good
including Dick Snyder, Ronnie
Stone, and Bill Tetrick.

Fogleman said, concerning the
freshmen, “This group compares
favorably with any freshman
team I have had in nineteen
years of coaching.

Independent 30, Pi Kapp 20.
Beta 25, Phi Delt 0.
SAE 24, Pika 0.
KA 19, Phi Gam 7.
1-F STANDINGS

TRACK RESULTS
120 Low Hurdles: Bryant (F),
Gates (F); Loftis (S). (5-0)
100 Yd. Dash: Turner (5S),
Guyton (F), Bryant (F). (10.3)

W L!/ Fogleman has coached at{ 220 Yd. Dash: Turner (S),
Kappa Sig 11 0} Duke, Cincinatti, and Florida. | Gates (F), Gibbs (F). (24.8)
Beta 8 1)Fogleman pointed out Dick] 440 Yd. Dash: Gill (F), Watson
KA 9 2/Hurd, Woody Cleveland, Jeff} (S), Rifkin (F). (54.3)
SAE 6 2/ Frank, Bill Council, Jim O’Calla-| Mile Run: Davis (S), Barrow
| Independent 7 3jhan and Dave Mescham as es-|(S), Little (F). (4:54)
| Phi Gam 5 5/ pecially impressive. 440 Relay: Sophomores
| ATO 44
| Sigma Chi 45
| Phi Delt 46
| Pika 2 8h
| Pi Kapp 1 8B)
| Sigma Nu 19

0 9)

| Sig Ep

AT

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

THE

RLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING We Feature Free Hotel and Airport
THE BEST Pickup and Delivery Service.

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy II and
Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Renta car the
BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day.
You buy only the gas you need.*

301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

376-0213

