FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1962

THE DAVIDSONIAN

and

~ SIDELIGHTS

BY BILL PRIDGEN

OPEN THE GYM AT NIGHT

“We, the undersigned, desire the Administra-
tion to review the situation regarding the use of the
gymnasium by the student body. At the present
time, due to the amount of time required for varsity
and freshman basketball practice sessions there is
very little time for general use by members of the
student bedy. We would like to suggest a scheduling
that would include night sessions for student use—
ot at least make allowance for giving several hours
each day, or both?”

This is a copy of a petition that has been circulated
around the student body for the last few days in hopes of
eventually gaining more time for students to use the
gym, particularly the basketball courts. We whole-heart-
edly agree with the aim of this petition, because such a

need does exist. We would also like to commend those!

behind this move for their constructive attempt to arouse
student interest, and working positively to solve a real

problem.

Let’s look at cases. When: can students play basket-
ball in the gym? In the morning? In the morning, PE.
classes are being held during most periods, and when a
group goes down to play then, they are usually run out—
or a least limited to the side baskets.

What about in the afternoon? In the afternoon the
courts are open from 1:30 until approximately 3 p.m.
(Except on Thursday when the courts are free only from
4:30 until 5:45.) During these times when the court is
available there are often 50 boys out playing, which
makes the gym pretty crowded. Not only this but many
boys who have fourth or fifth period classes or afternoon

lab find it impossible to practice at all.

A dilemma certainly exists. What can be done about
it? The boys getting up the petition don’t want to run
the basketball team off the court, because they need time
to practice, but they do wonder if the court is not provid-
ed for the student beay as well as the team. Ha only
one court does limit the time that the court is available.

What, then, to do about it? The petitioners have a
plan as well as a i. (No, they dau woapges to build
a new gym.) Rick Lowery, one of the organizers of the

tion, suggests that the gym be available some nights
‘or student use. This is a practice followed by many, per-
haps most, colleges in this area. Lowery points out that it
would take only one man to keep the cage open, and if
need be, this could be a student working in a similar setup
to the one in the library.

This plan has many good points and we believe it
to be very reasonable. It wouldn't cost much, and it would
end the problem of the little time available for playing
basketball. Also, students would be able to use the other
facilities in the gym at night.

At present Lowery says he has over 200 names on his
petition and he hopes to get the signatures of more than
one-third of the student body. Let’s get behind this thing
and make it work—it will only if you lend your help and
interest.

TEAM CAPTAINS ELECTED

Senior Bobby Austell was recently elected captain;

of this year’s tennis sauad. Tennis coach Harry. Fogleman
reported that the election was unanimous.

Austell played the number one position on the team
last year and is expected to hold down the same position
this spring.

In an election held at a dinner in Coach Heath
Whittle’s home last Thursday, the cross-country squad
chose Tim Spiro and Ronnie Reese as co-captains of next
year’s team. Spiro is a junior and Reese is a sophomore.

HOW ABOUT STUDENT SCOUTING?

If students at Davidson are interested in keeping
good basketball here in the future, and we assume
are, here’s an idea that might be of benefit to our future
basketball fortunes and Coach “Lefty” Driesell.

Over the holidays, why couldn’t students who have
top-notch high school Saligiayess in their area go to
some of their games and keep a shot sheet on them, in-
cluding observations about how the boy plays on defense,
ete. According to Driesell this would be a big help to him
when he begins to evaluate these boys.

This idea of students scouting is actually the brain-
child of Bill Klett from Atlanta who collected informa-
tion and a shot sheet on a boy whom Driesell was inter-
ested in over the

a ee. This was done
entirely on his own and earned Il’s hearty approval.

How about it? Let’s try some scouting over the holi-|

days—it might help us keep a good team at Davidson.
HEYMAN‘S COMMENT

Art Heyman’s comment after the Duke game: “You
know, as pest good.” (From Phil Grose in bee

Charlotte

TOTAL I-F SCORES

(Net counting swimming entrance points)
Phi Delta Theta 307
Beta bey Pi 305
Sigma 279
Sigma Alpha on 168
Phi — De 162
ome Epsilon 161
Pi Ka ha 114
Sigma Nu 95
Independents 93
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

|

TOWERING OVER WOFFORD’S DEFENSE, FRED HETZEL
continues his high scoring pace. HETZEL dropped in 29 points
in Tuesday's Wofford contest to lead the ‘Cats in scoring for
the third straight game. Look out VMI! (Staff Photo by Joe Mc-
Cutchen).

The ‘Cats have never beaten
VMI, and Coach Parker has
high hopes of breaking the tra-
dition. The team lost last year
to the Keydets 24 - 5, but Parker
quickly pointed out that the
match was far closer than the
score shows. “If a couple of very
close decisions had gone the
other way, we would have beat-
en them.”

VMI, who finished third in the
conference last year appears to

CARRY 2-1 RECORD INTO GAME

PAGE THREE

"Cats Take On VMI Tomorrow,

Keydets First Conference Test

BY RICK SMITH
Sports Staff Writer

Tomorrow night the Wildcats
host the VMI Keydets in the
‘Cats’ fourth season game and
first conference clash. This is
a key contest in the Southern
Conference.

The Keydets will face David-
son without Norm Halberstadt,
who graduated last year. Hal-
berstadt, who set a VMI scoring
record in his career there, may
be remembered by Wildcat fans
as the player who hit a spectacu-
lar long jump shot in the clos-
ing seconds of last year’s con-
test here with VMI to give the
Keydets a 68-66 decision. This
loss ended a Wildcat winning
skein of twelve straight victor-
ies.

VMI coach Lovis Miller will
field five returning lettermen
and a couple of fine sopho-
mores against the ‘Cat quint.
Probable Keydet starters are

be even stronger this year. But
so are the ‘Cat matmen. “We
are stronger this year, and I
think we might beat them. It'll
be an awfully tough match,”
Parker said.

Last Saturday the Davidson
Wrestlers scored an impres-
sive 22-6 victory over Pfeiffer
College in their first meet of
the season. The team obviously
heeded Coach Charlie Parker's
warning not to underestimate

‘Little General’ Teague
Surprises Blue Devils

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

A little man doing a great job in a world of GIANTS
has earned the honor of being this week’s “Wildcat of

the Week.”
His high school coach called

him “the best ball handler I've
ever coached.”

“A real scrapper,”
‘Coach “Lefty” Driesell.

All radio listeners tuned into
Saturday night’s game have
heard him termed the ‘“‘quarter-
back of the team”—and that’s
exactly his role. He sets up the
plays, feeds the pivot men and
keeps things running smoothly.

Of course we're referring to
5'-11" guard from Madisonville,
Ky. Barry Teague.
Teague, one of the Class of 65

says

y stars, has shown great hustle

and determination to make up
for his comparative smallness
on the court.

He set up the 'Cats offensive
maneuvers and also proves very
offensive—to the other team—
while on defense. Always mov-
ing and running, never giving
his opponents any rest, Teague
makes them fight hard to even
get the ball out of the back-
court.

Very often the smallest man

on the court, he is also one of
the quickest, and has’ proven
very adept at stealing the ball
from the “giants.” And he’s
usually there to grab a rebound
batted out by the big fellas.

The “Little General” made
all-district team in Kentucky
high school basketball and was
honorable mention on the All-
State team. On last year’s fresh-
man team he averaged 6 points
a game. But it is in his “offen-
sive defense” where he really
proves his worth. Like Driesell
says, “He gets the job done.”

The Duke game was where
Teague’s talent earned its well
deserved recognition. Running
all over the court, being every-
where at the right time, Teague
earned the respect of both Duke
and Davidson fans.

No greater tribute could have
been given this boy, playing in
his second varsity game, than
the standing ovation accorded
him by everyone in Duke's gym
when he fouled out with two
minutes left in the game.

Grapplers Tackle VMI:
’Cats Seek Second Win

Tomorrow, Davidson’s wrestling team gets its first real test of strength as the
squad journeys to VMI for their second match. A match with VPI which had been
scheduled for Monday has been cancelled because of a Gobbler scheduling mixup.

the Misenheimer Matmen, and
the score indicates a stronger
Davidson squad this year.

Individual match scores were
as follows:

123 lb. — Tom Wright (D)
pinned Charles Dickenson
(1:16); 130 lb. — Mike Bisard
(D) decisioned Larry Crumbley;
137 lb. — Art Merrion (P) de-
cisioned Dick Ray; 147 Ib.
Joe Parker (D) decisioned Jim
Stokes; 157 lb. — Bob Hand (P)
decisioned Joe Jones; 167 lb
Bill Mills (D) pinned John Al-
bee (5:21); 177 lb. — Tom Day
(D) decisioned Bob Mauldin;
and Russell. Walls (D) de-
cisioned Jack Linden.

Coach Parker was especially
impressed with the way junior
Bill Mills handled himself in the
match. “He had a tough oppon-
ent, and controlled him very
well. He wrestled the _ best
match.”

These men should be — the
wrestlers against VMI and a-
gainst North Carolina next
week, with the exception of
Dick Wray, who suffered a rib
injury, and will be out for a
month. Either Hugh Allen or
Max Williams, both inexperienc-
ed, will replace him.

Coach Parker also mentioned
that since little interest had
been shown, there will be no
freshman matches this year.

6’-7” center Bobby Watson,
forwards 6'-6” John Yurachek
and 6'4” soph Jeff Gause-
pohl, and guards 6’ soph
Joe Kruzewski and 6’-3” Bill
Blair (who scored 26 points
against West Virginia last
Tuesday). Reservist guards
5’-11” Garry Kemple and 6’-

1” Bob Byrd will likely see
action.

Wildeat coach “Lefty” Drie-
sell admitted that the 'Cats can
expect a tough game against
the Keydets in spite of the fact
that Davidson will probably be
favored. “They're plenty tough,”
he commented, “remember last

year in the tournament they
held Smith (Furman’s  All-
American candidate Jerry

Smith) to five or six points.”
Driesell added, “We'll be
looking for revenge.” When
asked if the ‘Cats may be
looking past tomorrow night's
game to upcoming games with

Furman and Duke he quickly
replied, “No, we're pointing
for VMI. We've got to win
these conference games.” He
continued to say that VMI will
be up for the game. “Every-
body will be up for us this
year,” he added.

Next Friday night the David-
son team will square off against
Furman University at Davidson
in another conference tilt. The
highly touted Paladins have an
All-American candidate in hard-
driving 6-2" Jerry Smith. This
flashy player from Corbin, Ky.,
led the Southern Conference in
scoring last year with a 26.9
average.

At the other forward post is
65" Gerald Glur, who ‘was
Statistically second only to Jer-
ry Lueas in rebounding last
year. Glur pulled in an average
of 18 rebounds a game while
seoring at a 13.7 clip.

Furman is picked to finish
in the top three in the con-
ference this year. Friday |
night's clash shapes up as one
of their most important games
of the season.

On Tuesday, Dec. 18, the ’Cats |
will face the Duke Blue Devils |
for the second time this waa. |
The game will be played in the |
Charlotte Coliseum. Davidson |

I-F Basketball Set:
Starts After Exams

After the IMAC meeting last

Wednesday night, President!
Steve Clark announced _ that
interfraternity basketball will

not be started until after semes
ter exams. No schedule has
been drawn up as yet.

Clark also said that the hand-
ball tournament will be held
right after Christmas holidays.

In Season's

meet this year.

to East Carolina, who are known
for their strong swimming
teams. ‘We know that we're
going to have a rough season,
especially before Christmas,”
Stated Dwight Shoe, the David-
son mentor. “This year, we're
young and this factor wil! prob-
ably show, but we should gain
valuable experience.”

Led by Senior captain, Car-
ter Mebane, the Davidson
splashers are an enthusiastic
bunch and “are working hard
in practice.” However the team
has had only two weeks of in-
the-water practice and the af-
feets will show in their first few
meets.

Sophomore John Alexander

| should easily step into the shoes

of Tommy French in the Back-
stroke. This will be a strong
point of the team. Purk Purker-
son is working hard and should
give depth to this position.
_Sprinters Jack Hollenbeck,
Dan Campbell, and Mebane
should do well in their respec-
tive events, but the positions in
the 50 and 100 Free are lacking
in depth. Mebane is a trans-
planted distance swimmer and
can be counted on for an all-
out performance each meet.
The leading distance man on
the team, Jim Grey, did well his
freshman year and should carry

the burden in the 500 and the

Mermen Dunk At Duke

BY CHARLIE SHAPPARD
Sports Staff Writer
The Wildcat mermen travel to Durham today to
open their 1962-43 season against a strong Duke squad.
ith a good group of sophomores, the Blue Devils should
prove to be one of the toughest teams the 'Catfish will

Tomorrow, the ‘Cats play host 200 Free.

First Meet

Although the Breastroke is
considered one of the weak links
of the team, Bud Fry is develop-
ing fast and could be one of the |
bright spots on the team. Sopho- |
more Wes Truscott has looked
good in practice and with ex-
perience should give the ’Cat-

fish a good 1-2 punch in this
event.
Newcomers Randy Hughes

and Smith McKeithan have both
looked good in practice and will
probably be the 'Cat swimmers
in the Individual Medley.

Perhaps the weakest point of
the team is in the 200 Butterfly.
Actually there are no butterfly
men on the team, but if Hol-
lenbeck and Truscott swim the
event, they may surprise sev-
eral opponents.

Diving for the Mermen will be
veteran Dick Fromm, Chip Der-
rick, and sophomore Bill Jacobs.
These boys have been working
hard and could be a consistent
point-getter for the 'Cats.

The 1962-63 version of the
‘Catfish will definitely lack in
depth. However, the sophomores
on the team should gain much
experience and with the addi-
tion of freshmen Jim Stokes,
George Gibbons, Mark Waldon,
Joe Hensley, and Craig Kitchins,
next year’s squad could be a
contender for the Southern Con-

be avenge their
loss last Tues¢ » the second-
ranked Demon Deacons

Other games to be played dur-
ing the Christmas vacation are
Cincinnati there on Dec. 22,
New Hampshire here on Dec
28, Princeton in Charlotte on
Dec. 29, and William and Mary
here on Jan. 2. Driesell said of
Princeton, “They're good.
Bradley (a 6-5", 210 Ib. for-
ward) is probably the best
sophomore in the country.”

The Cincinnati game is of
real interest since it marks
the first time that a David-
son squad has played the top-
ranked team in the nation in
any sport.

The ‘Cats will face VMI sport-
ing a 2-1 record. Last Friday
night the Davidson five opened
their season by demolishing an
outclassed Erskine team, 91-51

The following Tuesday the
Wildcats traveled to Durham,

1
seexing t

i

will

Hetzel left the game, and af
the end of the contest in
praise of the impressive Wild-
cat team.

Thursday night Davidson
downed a stubborn Wofford
team 77-58. Driesell summed up
the effort by saying, “The kids
were tired. They had to play
three ball games in five nights.”

An unfortunate incident in
the game was the injury of Bar-
ry Teague. He fell over the
back of a Wofford defender on
a driving lay-up and landed on
his head, suffering a mild con-

cussion: Teague was not ser-
iously injured, however, and
should return to the line-up

Saturday night, although it is
uncertain whether he will play.

where they were nosed-out by
Duke 76-68. Art Heyman’'s 36
point effort was chiefly respon-
sible for the Blue Devils margin.
The 6-5” . All-American also
grabbed a number of rebounds
off of both boards and excelled
on defense.

Perhaps the determining
factor in the contest was the
‘Cats loss of top sophs Fred
Hetzel and Don Davidson after
each had played little more
than half of the game. Never-
theless, 6-8" Hetzel was high
man for the ‘Cats with 22
points. Several times during
the tilt Duke fans rose in a

Beat

VMI
>On Coupee ct...

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf", ‘The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’, ete.)

Cats,

DECK THE HALLS

When you think of Christmas gifts you naturally think of
Marlboro cigarettes, leading seller in flip-top box in all fifty
states—-and if we annex. Wales, in all fifty-one—and if we an-
nex Lapland—in all fifty-two. This talk about annexing Wales
and Lapland is, incidentally, not just idle speculation. Great
Britain wants to trade Wales to the United States for a desert.
Great Britain needs a desert desperately on account of the
tourist trade. Tourists are always coming up to the Prime”
Minister or the Lord Privy Seal or like that and saying, “I’m
not knocking your country, mind you. It’s very quaint and
picturesque, etc. what with Buckingham Palace and Bovril
and Scotland Yard, ete., but where’s your desert?” (Before I
forget, let me point out that Scotland Yard, Britain’s plain-
clothes police branch, was named after Wally Scotland and
Fred Yard who invented plain clothes. The American plain-
clothes foree is called the FBI after Frank B. Incheliff, who
invented fingerprints. Before: Mr. Inchcliff’s invention, every-
body's fingers were absolutely glassy smooth. This, as you
may imagine, played hob with the identification of newborn
babies in hospitals. From 1791 until 1904 no American parent

“a neo ten tel oer eceht/

ever brought home the right baby from the hospital. This
later became known as the Black ‘Tom Explosion.)

But I digress. England, I was saying, wants to trade Wales
for a desert. Sweden wants to trade Lapland for Frank B. Inch-
cliff. The reason is that Swedes to this day still don’t have
fingerprints. As a result, identification of babies in Swedish
hospitals is so haphazard that Swedes flatly refuse to bring their
babies home. There are, at preserit, nearly a half-billion un-
claimed babies in Swedish hospitals—some of them well over
eighty years old.

But I digress. We were speaking of Christmas gifts which
naturally put us in mind of Marlboro cigarettes. What could
be more welcome at Christmas time than Marlboro’s flavor,
Marlboro’s soft pack, Marliboro’s flip-top box? What indeed
would be more welcome at any time of year—winter or sum-
mer, rain or shine, night or day? Any time, any season, when
you light a Marlboro you can always be certain that you will
get the same mild, flavorful, completely comfortable smoke.

There are, of course, other things you can give for Christmas
besides Marlboro cigarettes. If, for example, you are looking
for something to give a music lover, let me call to your atten-
tion a revolutionary new development in phonographs—the
Low-fi phonograph, The Low-fi, product of years of patient
research, has so little fidelity to the record you put on it that if,
for instance, you put “Stardust” on the turntable, ‘Melancholy
Baby” will come out. This is an especially welcome gift for
people who have grown tired of “Stardust’’.

Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night.

© 1962 Mas Shulman

The makers of Marlboro cigarettes, who take pleasure in
bringing you this column throughout the school year, wish
to join old Max in extending greetings of the Season.

ference title.
