FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1962

HIGHLIGHTS |

 SIDELIGHTS

BY BILL PRIDGEN

HOW THE MAGAZINES SEE US

Basketball magazines are sitting up and taking more
notice of Davidson in pre-season ratings this year. All of
them predict a much better season for the team, even
though this year’s schedule is much tougher than last
year’s, and several players have been picked to be stand-
outs.

Team captain Bill Jarman was picked in one maga-
zine to be honorable mention All-South, and in another
he was selected as a pre-season All-Conference choice.

factor on the team.

IN MONDAY NIGHT’S ACTION, JOHN
LITTLE starts on top of JIM RIFKIN, obscured
All the write-ups on Davidson had him as the deciding | by hair, in the 191-1b. class. RIFKIN, weighting

jen 150 Ibs., pinned LITTLE in the match.

PAGE THREE

Outweighed 40 tbs. by his opponents, he man-
aged to take a third place in the tourney.
(Staff Photo by Raynal)

Betas Nip Phi Delts Tuesday
In Wrestling Tourney, 65-64

BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

In a race that went right down to the wire, the Betas edged out the Phi Delts
64-63 to take this year’s interfraternity wrestling title. In the last match of the eve-
ang. Phi Delt Bill Bankhead had to beat last year’s heavyweight champion Don Hall
in he last match to pull it out, but he was pinned by the 250 Ib. Hall in the second
ri

The Beta team placed six men
in the top three positions in
their weight classes. Jimmy Law-
ton won the 123 pound title and
Jerry Blackstock took the 177
class.

Tommy Hamilton and Jim
Wallace took seconds with
Steve Kash and Mike Owen

taking thirds for the winners.

The Phi Delts were led by 167
Ib. champ Eric Nichols, Stuart
Robinson, Hoyle Rymer, John

The biggest honor given any player was given to
Fred Hetzel when one magazine chose him as one of the |
10 best sophs in the nation, however, another magazine, |
Basketball Yearbook, 1963, failed to place him in the
nation’s top 50 sophs. In most write-ups, he and 6’5” Don
Davidson were picked as sophs to watch.

While the write-ups were good on Davidson, none
were as optomistic as many loyal fans would have liked
them to be. The best any of them could do was list us as
“a dark horse” in the conference. All of these magazines
picked at least three teams over us in the conference,
West Virginia, Furman, and VMI. We'll have to show
them.

According to the pre-season ranking of the maga-
zines, Davidson will be meeting the number one (Cincin-
nati) and number two (Duke) in the nation. They will
be meeting another team in the top 10 (West Virginia,
No. 7) to make a grand total of three top 10 teams.

Even if we feel a little slighted by the basketball
magazines, our opponents are giving us serious consider-

ation. Duke’s coach, Vic Bubbas, when asked about ag them in the air and
}on e

able to come up with the de-

Davidson game said, ‘Don’t tell me about small colleges—
I know what Davidson’s got.” “Bones” McKinney, Wake

Forest’s preacher-coach, said, “If we point towards any | “ding anetesann lees than tinge
one game it’ll be Davidson. Coach Lyles Alley down at | ™mutes remaining on the clock.

Furman (No. 9 on the South) made a similar statement. |
“Lefty” Driesell is unmoved by these statements, he only’:
says, “If they keep talking, we might bet our boys fired |
up and start pointing to their games.

VPI OVER VMI ON THANKSGIVING

Even though the football season is over here, several |

| footballers closed out their 1962
|season by going down to their
fifth loss 20-28 in a game play-
ed on. Richardson Field

Spiders, were able to come out
|in spite of the fact the ‘Cats

i

3-5-1 RECORD

Last Saturday Davidson's
on the extra point attempt. Dav-
idson was able to spring back
with a long Earl Cole to Steve
Heckard pass which set up the
score, coming on a pass to Steve
Davidson on a fourth down play.
The half ended 7-6, the ‘Cats
leading.

Davidson tallied twice again
in the second. half. A 55 yard
run by Bob Cordle early in the
half put the ‘Cats in front 14-6.
Following two Spider TD's,

The victors, the Richmond

weren't

ground. They

The Spiders opened the scor-

*

crucial games remain to be played in the conference. *

The Thanksgiving clash between conference leader VMI |
and a tough VPI squad should be the most exciting game

off The Citadel tomorrow (as they should), then the VMI-
VPI contest will decide the conference champs.

We pick the season closing games as follows:

Nov. 17 —

Furman 20, Tampa 0.

Syracuse 28, Washington 7.
West Virginia 35, ‘Citadel 17.
Nov. 22 (Thanksgiving) —

William & Mary 10, Richmond 6.

GUARDING THE GOAL LINE, linebacker GENE FERRIS

ry

ing in the first period but failed Heckard scored his fifth TD of

the year and the score was 20-
20.

The Spiders were then turned
a Davidson fumble into another
score and won by an eight point
margin

In team statistics for the year
Davidson generally shows up on
the short end. Their opponents
scored 103 points to 88: for the
‘Cats. They were also short on

Season's Last Effort Falls Short;
Wildcats Lose Thriller 28-20

and total offense 2130 to 2405 age

yards. The ’Cats’, however, were
able to outpass their opponents,
largely through. the Cole-to-
Heckard combination.

The most outstanding individ-
ual performer was Heckard, a
sophomore, who
leading all conference ends in
several statistics, including total
catehes and total yardage. Six
catches in Saturday's game put

is

first downs 104 to 129, net rush- him in front of John Hilton |
ing yardage, 1203 to 1631 yards, from Richmond.
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
FOOTBALL STANDINGS
Conference Overall
Wi fT ee ae
VMI 5 2 a 63:0
West Virginia 3:09 §:.2..0
Williams & Mary a2 ga 4°41
Richmond 22 © eh 30
VPI 2:2. 0 5 4.9
Furman ye te 4 5 8
The Citadel Le 2 3.8.8
George Washington L 3:8 3.6.0
Davidson ie gee | ’.) 4

hits MEL RIDEOUT on the extra point play as the score

Stephens, and Bill Bankhead.

The result of the meet was
so close that the Phi Delts were
first thought to be the win-
ners with 64 points to the Beta’s
59. A recheck of the score how-
ever showed the Betas actually
had 64 points, enough to nose
out the Phi Delts.

An_ interesting sidelight to
the tourney was provided by
Steve Arthur, defending 157 Ib.
champ and Mel Melton. Arthur
and Melton dressed in outland-
ish costumes for their match
and put on more of a comic
show than a wrestling match.
A coin was flipped to decide the
{match and Melton won, contrary
to the original play. Melton
later lost the championship to
Jim Pepper.

Results of the matches were
jas follows:

123 Ib.

— Jimmy

|
t

currently 3

Lawton

i SCORING HIS ONLY TOUCHDOWN of this season, speedy

(Beta), Allen McSween (Phi
Gam), and Jim Thompson (SPE).

130 Ib. Johnny Webb
(Ind.), Stewart Robinson (Phi
Delt), and Jamie Bryant (KS).

137 Ib. — Johnny Powell (KS),
Tom Hamilton (Beta), and Lee
Fanning (Sigma Chi).

147 Ib. — Lanier Burns (Sigma
Chi), John Stephens (Phi Delt),
and Steve Kash (Beta).

157 tb. — Jim Pepper (Sigma
Chi), Mel Melton (Pi Kapp), and
George McClelland (Phi Gam).

167 tb. — Eric Nichols (Phi
Delt), Roy Baldwin (SPE), and
George Pepper (Sigma Chi).

177 |b. — Jerry Blackstock
(Beta), Hoyle Rymer (Phi Delt),
and Jim Overton (Pika).

191 Ib. — Bruce Dalton (KS),
Jim Wallace (Beta); and. Jim
Rifkin (Phi Delt).

Hwt. Don Hall (Phi Gam),
Bill Bankhead (Phi Delt), and

Mike Owen (Beta).

halfback BOB CORDLE scampers 55 yards down the sidelines in
Saturday's game against Richmond. The play came in the second
half and put the ‘Cats in front 14-6. )Staff Photo by McCutchen).

Conference Tourney
In Charleston, S. C.

BY DENNY PHILLIPS
Sports Staff Writer

Sterling Martin closes out four years of cross coun-

Syracuse 20, West Virginia 14.
VPI 28, VMI 14.

FINAL DAVIDSON FOOTBALL

20-14. RIDEOUT didn’t make the point, and was injured on the
play. BILL DOLE and RUSSELL WALLS move in to aid FERRIS.

it
try for Davidson on Monday when he runs in the South-

ern Conference Cross-Country Championship meet at
Charleston, S.C.

Hoopsters Shape Up

BY RICK SMITH

| ose
STATISTICS, 1962 "Cat Booters Close ) a i ea — 04 Coach Heath Whittle called = a _ — They
; “wo weeks from today the 1962-63 edition of the Martin “about the. most consis- beat Pembroke twice, the Cita-
wae | Davidson College basketball team officially opens its|tent runner I've ever coached. del and Richmond once. They
RUSHING so 2 } s ; season here when they face Erskine College. The follow-)| 1! can always count on him to be lost to Furman, VMI, and Wake
m Attempts Net Yards Avg. | th Em ing night the ’Cats travel to Durham to play the Duke up front.’ Forest, tied VPI, and finished
Bob Cordle 56 243 4.34 f ; ory 0 ay Blue Devils, a team which is rated as one of the best in) pejsit schools are participat. fourth in last. week's state meet.
Pat Fisher 40 163 4.08 reget ce aaah Gai ue.’ ° Sleeaslns teak aa
Alex Gibbs 27 110 4.08 MEO oper PO , ial Die ie-4 ‘ i, onle Mee iii iliaiesh tan dma’ a ie pone eee _ vin wt tie ne ay . ae
David Lopp 44 171 3.89 Davidson Ss winning soccer team met Emory s booters uke. is no wd only tough n erciiesong al abou ue eam’s., clud: The Citadel: Davidson, " css I, Whittle ¢ ut d it ‘ one
Joe Jones 48 166 3.46 at 2:30 this ‘afternoon on the local field in an attempt to opposition the Wildcats -. will prospects. He admitted that he Purmar \iniversity. of. Rich- of the finest meets all year and
Jim Fuller 32 104 3.25 achieve the best won-lost record in Davidson’s soccer face On December 22 they go is very pleased with their per-' mond, VMI, VPI. West Virginia, said he was “very pleased with
Tom Worrall 28 90 3.99 history. against defending n tional cham- om in practice sessions, and William and Mary. Whittle the team effort: shown “against
PASSING A Wildcat win today would Going into today's game, jun- | P!? ( ineinnati in Cincinnati, W - inelude scggreany rp thinks it will be “vers close” VPI's strong squad
Attempts Completed Pct. Yards | give the Davidson booters a 6-2 ior center-forward Fred Schoen _ — ar — of pig Prego : ies ue . between West Virginia and VMI : “If we show the same determ-
Earl Cole 112 48 430 735 record. The team has defeated led the Wildcat scoring with 8 a cali ber as West Virginia, s hard to a, now you ene for the championship ination in the conference meet
Kent Tucker 37 15 410 188 | Belmont 8-1, Pfeiffer 3-2, Guil- goals and needed only one more | Princeton, bi ei ocwnes a ouners. until you play someone. els¢ As for individual honors, We should place well up there!”
TOTAL OFFENSE |ford 3-2, Appalachian 1-0, and to tie the school individual sea-, Coach - aty Driesell 48. In a recent game-type scrim- Whittle said, “Nobody can ¢x¢laimed Whittle
Plays Yards Avg.) North Carolina State 3-1. A 5-0 son record of 9. |mage the ’Cats demonstrated touch Dennis Patterson of Fur Trophies will go the first
Earl Cole 135 732 5.92|shutout at the hands of Duke —§ Schoen and Jan Brakel. wno Freshmen Lose bb | ee shooting ability by hitting man—he should be way out twenty-five finishers in the con-
Kent Tucker 74 283 3.90 | and a 7-3 trouncing by UNC are began his playing in The | ee |on 52°? of their shots and roll- front.” And-Davidson’s Martin? ference meet. A trophy will also
Bob Cordle 44 171 4.34 | the only blemishes on the ’Cats’ Netherlands, are called by In Season Finisher ed up a a points He ~ 2 = chance ofr go to the best team, with a
PASS RECEIVING | record. Coach Harry Fogleman, “this | Driesell said the team must fourth of fifth" stated Whittle. plaque being awarded the run-
Caught Yards; Last year the Davidson team year’s outeniline linemen.”| Davidson’s Wildkitten grid-| continue to work on defense as Martin has made the All-Con- nerup team. The coaches will
Steve Heckard 2 519 | journeyed to Atlanta and de- Fogleman also singles out Wal-, ders closed out their season last they have been doing since they ference team for the past two select eight boys to the All-
Alex Gibbs 14 105 | feated Emory 43 in an over- ter Eckman and team captain | Saturday night against Gardner| began practice. “We can score years and should repeat the Conference team after the meet,
Bob Cordle 6 85 | time. This year’s Emory team Charlie Sasser as top performers | Webb Junior College Gardner | on anybody,” he commented, honor again this year. basing their selections on the
Steve Davidson 4 90 has defeated two of Davidson's on the line. | Webb won the contest by a lop- | “but we need a good defense to Davidson's cross-country team. season's. record and the meet
SCORING foes, Belmont and Pfeiffer. couiinn tein _., Sided score of 35-0, the worst! be great.” wound up with a 48-1 record results
TD’s PATS FG Total nage . — ‘Ve | Kitten loss of the year oT ee
Steve Heckard 5 0 0 30 Swimmers heen — a Don McQueen | Gardner Webb dominated, the | meter arte =
Bill Dole 0 10 1 13 F] ana me a : aad Mike Ne-| same from the first, scoring!
Joe Jones 2 0 0 12 er, . Pryerie os gwen who | twice in the first four minutes. |
David Lopp 2 0 0 12 Grunt Into Shape csoygeat . re cog , They added another touchdown |
Pat Fisher 1 0 0 6 BY FORREST ROLES . di s parr man out: onda safety in the second quar- |
Bob Cordle 1 0 0 6 Sports Staff Writer ston me" 3 ter and scored twice more in|
mg: ong 1 0 0 6 Sinice thedaneand oe oe nee eg the second half.
er 1 0 0 6 ' I ‘has ocuall ith th — as also =Three Gardner Webb. scores
Steve Davidson 1 0 0 6 ee, oo Ww | shone for the Wildcats. Playing came from ‘Kitten mistakes
 Srunts, ‘and splashes of | wing, he made 4 out of 5 penalty Two crucial fumbles and an in.

Just Across the Street
Featuring Whitman’s Chocolates

Coach Dwight Shoe’s swimming
team, who are working to get in
shape. Their first meet is with
Appalachian on December 4.

According to Coach Shoe, this
year’s tankmen are going to be
hurt by the graduation of Steph-
an Young and Tom _ French.
“How well we do this season de-
pends on how well the sopho-
mores fill the vacancies left by
graduation last year.”

Coach Shoe is depending heav-
jily on Jack Hollenbeck; whom

kicks through the first seven
games and by virtue of these 4
goals, was second high scorer
going into today’s game.

“Sophomore Howard Morris is
the most improved player on the
team,” relates Fogleman. “This
is the first year he has played
the game and he really has look-
ed good at fullback.”

“Both of our goalies, Lyman

| Dillon and Jim Bulla, were also
playing for the first time this |

year,” continues Fogleman.

tereepted pass hurt the 'Kitten|
cause early in the game, and
they were never able to recover
from the early scores.

The loss made the frosh grid-
ders’ overall record 1-3, winning
only from Furman.

Swimming Tourney
Set After Holidays —

e annual interfraternity |

6

10": 365%*

Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

jhe tabs “the best swimmer we “This hasn’t helped a lot  be-
|have,” in the sprints and the cause experience really is vital the Wednesday and Thursday |
butterfly, and diver Dick Fromm | at the goalie position.” nights following Thanksgiving
| to score well for him this year.| Graduation will deal a hard holidays.

swimming meet will be held on,

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a... _Lettermen Carter Mebane and blow to the team. Wing Sasser, According to Steve Clark, | : 4 ce a
[Beles Wests should give addi-' halfbacks MeQueen and Smith, | president of the Interfraternity; . - Sis seabed atthe : was _
| tional support, jand fullback Meldrum, all sen-| Athletic Council, Wednesday | 112 : hin j
Shoe is enthusiastic about his |jors, played their final game) night will be devoted to time | * 60 million times a day people get that refres g new feeling

with ice-cold Coca-Cola!

trials and eliminations.
The finals will be held on

!freshman team. “They tell me | for Davidson today.
there are some good looking) All is not gloom for Fogle-

| swimmers in it,” he said. He man, however. “We have sever-| Thursday night among the top under authority of The Coca-Cola by
the famous OPEN KITCHEN stun Joe Hensley. Randy | al outstanding freshmen in| swimmers who turned in the oe Seber.
. : es, George Gibbons, andj school and they ought to be a! four best times on Wednesday. ‘ 2 ‘
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C. |nike Smith as eepecially im-|big help next year,” b Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord

year,” he happily The Phi Delts are the tourney
: def.

ending champs. Concord, North Carolina

ressive. : remarked.
