* FRIDAY, MAY 17. 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

|

BY RICK LOWERY |

Davidsonian Sports Editor F For the seventh year in a row, the Phi Delts have captured the IMAC trophy, by a
comfortable sixty-one point margin over the runner-up Sigma Chis. The Betas edged

; the Kappa Sigs for third place.
The Delts, who retired their second place tie.in the handball second in the track and swim
ANEW BASEBALL second consecutive trophy last competition. They also managed ming meets, while the Betas won
Is it possible that something new has happened to year, won the swimming meet, strong first division finishes in the wrestling tournament and
the Davidson baseball situation? Last week I said some- finished second in the wrestling basketball, flickerball, softball, placed second in flickerball. The
thing had happened in tennis and now baseball. Can this | tournament and wound up it and track. The Sigma Chis took, a Kappa Sigs manag-
e true? 5 ~———~ 1 ed at least a-tie for first in all
The following was submitted by Forest Roles, David- see ball, hehe Ge
sasketba and Softball, but

sonian sports writer who has been closely associated with
the baseball team... .

A CHANGE

For two years the thrill of winning has been a strange
feeling for Davidson Baseball players. But in April 17
the thrill returned and it had its effect

From that day, the 'Cats’ record was 84. This is not

)
ba

ba .
PN so
een”

é Furman Sweeps To Victory:

|

In Conference Track Meet

BY BOB STRAUSER

lost. entrance points in the les

ser events.
ces

with the Kappa Sigs in
basketball and second place tie

Other fine team performan
included the Independents’
for first

‘ epi ae : : ; Davidsonian Sports Writer with the SAEs in softball. The
impressive to a Yankee fan, but to the bunch of Davidson es oe: The 1956 Olympics. an article in the Lendon Times, | SA™s finished first in handball
juniors who had seen nothing like it since their high oom . — lama on aenh pp ae ese three factors form an in-| #5 the SPEs and the Delts tied
school days it was new and promising, for it was they | PHi DELTS STEVE DAVIDSON POPS UP AS Tart (one shoe, one slipper) looks on in Mon- neal nap ven hg r ir a eoncstony nae sag th il for second. The ATOs won ‘the
and the sophomores that led it JOHN (TINKA) JERNIGAN Kappa Sig catcher day's decisive softball game. (Photo by Me‘| Gon forence track mect held last Friday and Saturday in| ‘Tack meet and the KA hed
Among them is a new enthusiasm for baseball and| shuts his eyes in horror and umpire Harry Cutchen) | wu ae — ym vo cag en swimmin .
for the improvement of their team, their facilities and ( harleston, West Virginia
the general baseball program at Davidson. And they've i. Si Lal 4 Segal was a ae in the ¥cleared the piri 12'5" to come hy sets
set out to accomplish these goals : e Pad Hy S. | elts c n the Olympic Games or once Again: -WiniN One {nen OF tandir t
Leader of the group was junior Rick Smvyre. Last t) 8) + irs ago. a face whic! own school record Tuer IMAC ‘ three
Tuesday night he called a team meeting, gave his ideas nowhere to qua wens other men a port ke
and accepted others. He made un a list of the suggestions | a en if nats in the 400 height and Mills had to se nter
the group thought helpful and feasible, and even a few! f oO fthall % andin © Chuek Rohr, former fifth on a number of mis m
doubtful suggestions ———- vi caliente a patna I one
“What we're trving to do.” said Smvré. “is to trv to} vito. wrote the ‘Londen: Davidso Pegg — : is
change student view and overall view of Davidson base-; The Kappa Sigs behind the tight pitching of Durwood Settles routed the Phi Delts Tes in search of some talent. Fraser in the high jump. J 863
ball.” The team view has changed. ‘“‘We don’t go out there} Monday 18-4 to capture the Interfraternity softball championshi; ee _ a oe awarded : proportionateny
expecting to lose anymore. Now we'd like to change} Monday's act pped up a White, and the Independents had the _ le: winning. several education in’ th eT ee port =  iamea og | te te OO 100. being the
everyone else's view. season that saw perhaps the .one of the longest hitters of the games holding the cham ng x eae penal didn't maximum totals possible by the
“What we're really doing is putting ourselves on the] heaviest hitting ar t balanc- group in Gary Mart pion Kappa Sigs to one run a Segal answered the tice in) ay his form . he missed 62” | Winnit um at each level, Pen-
spot. This almost has to be a long range plan, but the/ed league in many years, The The Sig Eps had Car i the Betas beat them 4-1, How- the paper five years ago, and sas tals Se ila deh Or h ilties were charged in the form
team hopes it will bring some results in the very near} rea! strength in year’s former freshman b and ever, Clark was not unbeatabl { Saturday night he wrapped |) ny aes Fraser oh red the ) forfeitures
future, But for it really to work, we've got to win. We| league was the over abundance the Pi Kaps had Er Spain- as the Phi Delts proved to the) up a tremendous college career co bi be pa + = ad 5 oi
think we will.” ' of power-hitters. The Phi Delts hour who hit tw reruns. tune 14-8. Other outstandi: vith two first place shes. Ih ri siniead I ee “| aM uilure to officiate flicker
Some things have happened already. If next year’s led the rest of the Jea with against the Kappa Ss hese pitchers were Durwood Settles. the hundred yard dash, Alan “2° et ame
team proves itself, there is a definite possibility that, three such hitters--Tefry Hol- men were the especially hea Freddy Fowler (SAE) who was Turner was leading with about After the mec ee sitet tiie ‘tees dee —
certain key games may be broadcast on a local radio sta-| land, Nat Harris and Bill Bank- hitters in the league. They were the win: pitcher against both ten yards to go when Segal pul Furman, Coach Whittle had eae eee —
tion. Plans for a varsity-alumni game are in the making,} head: In the course of the year not the only homerun hitters the Phi Delts and Kappa § ed ahead to win by two or three Nothing oe ange Mesh - ath- | were helped considerably by the
and so are farther publicity possibilities of a smaller | these three ballplayers hit some but they hit mor than and Jimmy Wilkinson of the In inches, Turner equalled: his rg sa 18 pointe was fact ‘that: all-rees mai
nature. balls that many teams think are anyone else dependents best time in the event with 9.8 e . —" 3 ; — : pica 7 m3 se mum number of ent points
Coach Stevens is now investigating a night game} still rolling. And -the: wert This year's pitching was no Some of this -season’s act econds Serenwe. eet ih severd: ‘years in all sports
with North Carolina at Gastonia. Plans for redoing the in- | many other outstanding. power- ticeably thin. Even those pit- deserves at least passing com The two sprinters met again | emer AANARAKAAABRARAARRARADRARNADABE,
field have been obtained from the Charlotte Hornets. A! hitters in the league. The ATO’s chers acelaimed to be the tops ment. Early in the season Steve the 220-yard: dash. This time |{ ‘IMAC TROPHY STANDINGS
permanent fence has been priced as has the pitching! boasted two—Spud Stewart and in the league had their ups and Clark threw perhaps the out-| Turner dropped ‘to | third, as Phi Delta Theta 789
machine | Paul Duvall. The KA's had Bill downs. Steve Clark of the Betas standir ame of the season.) Segal again took first place.|{ Sigma Chi 728
Coach Stevens prefers not to ask for scholarships! Jarman. ‘The Pikas, ‘Tommy the outstanding pitcher when with the help of © Hant Sterling | Martin, Davidson's 7: Beta Theta Pi 702
now, “Certainly I'd like a couple,” he said. “Of course the . Ackerman’s homerui bea tance (sian. in -ihens Kappa Sigma 691 |
best hope of getting good baseball players to come to the Kappa Sigs 4-1 - hy hal race-in typ Sigma Alpha Epsilon 619
Davidson is having..a strong successful program. But; rhe highest scot Marti = 15-0712 Alpha Tau Omega 611
even then, it-is onlv a matter of iuck when a top flight Athletic Awards Assembly the season took ‘plac res e tun was good|; Phi Gamma Delta 56
pitcher or catcher, or even a good power hitter comes to Phi Delts: hammers KA nd coniforens Independents 525
a school that can offer him no scholarship.” . WN 44-12. That was 44 ru: record. Unfortunately there|? Kappa Alpha 507
“We are lucky now to have very good pitching, and nings. An-interestit ‘ were three other men- who were]? 94gma_ Phi.Epsilon 458
our catching is coming along. But there can be no as- Spotlights Top Cat Stars th ame. occurred inthe! also breaking the record time|;. Pi Kappa. Alpha 443
surance that this will remain to be so. You win a lot of third inning when 27 Phi Delts) jn front of Sterlin ; Pi Kappa Phi 407
games with smart, aggressive baseball, but it never hurts BY CARLTON COLE batted and John Cameron: mad In the pole vault. Billy Mills{]? 2#@me Nu 302° ;
to have top talent.” : Z , all three out a. Sennennhinnininnhinredberivioeritonniecmpononersmineroonranmerodnnnbennaiannerints
“Tt fon this kind of aggressive baseball to win on| ———— Iwo days later the heavy hit
the schedule I'm working up next year. This is the first! Athletic awards this year were presented at chapel) ting Delts: scored 24 runs -but}
year I've had enough strong pitching to accept an invita-| yesterday, instead of at the usual athletic banquet lost as the SAE’s scored 27 runs
tion to Rollins College’s annual spring baseball tourna-|° ; | in a real battle
ment. The tournament has Duke, Rollins and Colby Col-) AW@tds included were for Hetzel as captain of the All) ang then there was-the final
lege of Maine. In the tournament each team plays every| cress country and track, foot Soumiern — Team. | same which was to. decide the
other one twice, six games in six days. With the tourna-| ball, soccer, basketball, swim a Bill Jarman has mene © championship. For three in
ment; West Virginia, V.P.1., Georgia Southern, and maybe | ming. wrestling. tennis, basebal), -° “¢"" Au. Gontner ©on-| nings, it was a tight game, but
North Carolina, we're going to have a hell of a schedule.”} ir utstandine manager. and tana pera te — years, and) in the fourth. the Kappa Sigs
“We're concerned about our program,” said a mem-|" 6 manager, anc’ both he and Hetzel made the All: proce it open. For the Sigs it
ber of the team, “and I think that we have thought of | '°" Me "fle team. Fournament Team. Teague Was! was the hard hitting of Bill
Peace: oR beet ci ees - eye named to the second All-Tourna , 3 a i.
some constructive ideas for next season and even for a; Coach A. H. Whittle present eel thence Beerman, the all-around play

few years from now. And from the experience we have|
had with talking with various members of the athletic;

ed the award for Most Outstand

of Johnny Rogers, and Fred Het

Coach Harry Fogleman award-| 2€! in certerfield that teamed

ling Athlete on the Cross Coun

staff and publicity department, I think they feel they are} ed the plaques for Most Valu-| With Settles to down the Delts
constructive ideas too. There is no doubt in my mind that| try team to senior Sterling Mar- 41). pjayer in soccer to Bob| There was a great deal more
they can help us play much better baseball. tin. For the third year in a row, Meldrum. a senior, and Most | 4ction than that which has been

Martin was selected as a mem- Valuable Player in tennis to, mentioned above, and.a_ great
CREATIVITY? | ber of the All-Southern Confe: Captain. Bob Austell, also a,™@ny more ballplayers whose

hitting and consistent play d¢

Perhaps this isn’t the creativity that everyone has
served comment. But softball is

been talking about the past two weeks, but these people

senior, Coach Dwight Shoe made
the swimming award for Most

ence Cross Country Team,

want to accomplish something and they are doing some-| Whittle gave the Merchant yo). 4)J6 Swimmer to senior/® game that begins and ends
thing about it Monday, the team will submit a detailed} Award for high point man of (2 rtor Mebane, also high point | Miekly, and while it is on it's all

the season on the track team to
sophomore Allen Turner. Keith
Fraser received the Fetzer A-
ward for Excellence in Track,
given this year for the first
time. It is given in honor of
Coach Bob Fetzer and his broth-

on at the same time. A great
deal has been skipped, not the

Senior Tom Tuttle received} least of which, were the many
the baseball award, made by/| eighth innings played up the
Coach Tom Stevens, while Coach| road where often more games
Tom Scott presented the Most| Were won than could have been
Valuable Player in golf to Mims| played in two seasons. So. for

plan for the improvements which they think should be man on the team this year
made in the baseball program over a five year period to
President Martin.

The baseball team has made some good points and
some reasonable ones. They have shown a willingness to
work to obtain these points. I only hope that the College
and the baseball team can reach some kind of practical

agreement about their future plans so that the baseball| er. Bill. long coaches at David. Rogers. Coach Charlie Parker | those skipped whether intention-
team’s new-found enthusiasm will neither wither away! so" and at the University of presented the Most Valuable | ally or not, bear no malice—the
nor run amuck and die. Good Luck. ' North Carolina, Wrestler Award to senior Tom| joy’s in the game?
| In football, Coach Bill. Dole Wright. Captain Charles C. | SOPTBALL RIMAL STANORIES
CONGRATULATIONS... | presented the Armfield Blocking Patttidge announced that the| Kappa Sigma 10-2
On another part of this page are the names of those) 7,5, to senior Mike Owen ‘°P ™#n on the rifle team this| Sigma Alpha Epsilon 9-3
men who were rewarded at Thursday’s athletic awards as-| ...4 the King Academic Award *°2" W&S_ Bill Blakely. Billy) Independents 93
sembly. Read them. These are the men who were most} (;,: the football player with the Mi!!s. @ junior, was named as! Pi Kappa Phi 8-4
outstanding in their sport at Davidson. They deserve a} jjchest scholastic averaze) to CaPtain of both track and wrest-| Phi Delta Theta 8-4
scanning. Rob. Camila dan pS , jing teams for next year Phi Gamma Delta 7-5
The following are my own personal selections for MY} ,ew football trophy this year is poy, o Beta Theta Pi 7-5
own personal awards. JOHN ROGERS . _ OUTSTAND- a. ae Pate te ae Bob Cordle, president D-| Alpha Tau Omega 6-6
ING INTERFRATERNITY ATHLETE. STEVE CLARK ...) noic made this award to senior Gon ye made the award | Sigma Chi 66
(A Friend not withstanding) .. . OUTSTANDING NON. | ons Shae ~ for Outstanding Manager to Ed} Sigma Phi Epsilon +o
PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTOR. BILL JARMAN . . Brown; he also presented Dr.| Pi Kappa Phi 2-10
OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETE. FRED HETZEL . Coach C. G.. “Lefty” Driesei] Tom Scott with the D-Club A-| Kappa Alpha 10
OUTSTANDING DAVIDSON ATHLETE. jmade the Belk Award for the Ward for outstanding leadership.| Sigma Nu 1-11)
Most. Valuable Player on the Ba scence . 7
basketball team for the year to /

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

sephomere Fred Hetzel. He also
mede awards of the Dr. McLeod
Trophy for the Best Defensive
Player to Barry Teague and yor
award for the Best Free Throw

SALE

lotte News announced the selec-
tion of Driesell as Southern Con-
ference Coach of the Year, and

Percentage to senior Haywood | W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

Evans, for the second time in| CHARLOTTE |

% ‘i the past three years. | bale aa
pr ing Max Muhleman of the Char- /

Kick up your heels in the new Adler Shape-Up cotton
sock. Nothing gets it down. The indomitable Shape-Up
leg stays up and up and up in plain white, white with tennis
stripes, or solid colors. No matter how much you whoop

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
DANIA RESTAURANT

HIGHWAY 29 CONCORD, N. C.
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS: Golden Fried Chicken (2) $1.50
FRIDAY NIGHTS: “All the Fish You Can Eat” $1.50
SAT. NIGHTS: Buffet Supper American-Continental
Foods 6:00 - 9:00 P.M.

6 AM.-9 P.M.

Merchandise
Reduced 20%
and More

Bush Wilson Lid.
ei aaa aac cammammae

ADLER

it up. In the air, her Shapette, 69¢, his Shape-Up, 85¢. THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OWIO

Bush Wilson Lid.

