FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Sports Scene: |
BY RICK LOWERY
Davidsonian Sports Editor
;
SPRING...

Spring is the time of the unsubsidized athletics at
Davidson and often the time of athletic disappointments.
This spring has not been a particularly bright one for
Davidson teams but it has not been without its bright
spots either. Last weekend, those people who didn’t have
to leave campus for Charlotte, Winston-Salem or other
points of interest until the early evening, were treated
to one of the most colorful of Davidson's spring events
the Davidson Relays. Although a track meet can often
drag along, Saturday's Relays had very few periods of
inaction. From the very beginning until the final event
there was little else but action. Sandwiched in among the
day's events were some happenings which remain in the
memory because of their exciting or dramatic quality

At the end of the day there was the first leg of the
two-mile relay, in which Washington and Lee University
had entered their team. At this stage of the competition,
the final outcome of the meet still very much in
doubt. Washington and Lee was only a few points below
Davidson. Due to a manpower shortage, Washington and
Lee was forced to enter a man on their team who had no
previous experience in this event. In fact, the only event
he had trained for was an extremely long-distance race
He was the third man on the relay team, and by the time
fhe baton was passed to him, W&L had built up a sub
stantial lead. As his coach related later, this man had no
idea of how to run an 880-vard race. He just. began to
run.as fast as he could. He ran a great first quarter, and
increased the previous lead, but as he came out of the
last turn in his second lap, it was evident that he was

Was

BILLY MILLS STARTS VAULT... .

’Cat Tracksters
Cop Own Relays

BY BOB STRAUSER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

tiring rapidly. He began to stagger, and fell only yards
from the handoff zone. But he still had not quit, for he
rose to his feet, only to fall into the cinders again. Al-|
though he couldn't rise again, he did try to crawl to the!
handoff zone, but he collapsed flat on the track. At this
point he was only six inches from the handoff area. The}
fourth man. on the relay team reached over the line and]
picked up the baton from his fallen teammate’s hand He}
continued the race and went on to finish first, but the}
W&L team was disqualified for making an illegal'pass— |
out of the passing zone. Washington and Lee lost this|
race, but in running it, they provided one of the top)
thrills of the day

Another peculiar situation. arose in the 440-yard
relay. Due to injuries, Davidson was forced to draft Jack
Hollenbeck from the intramural softball fields to run the

third leg. Hollenbeck came through to team. with Bob
Cordle, Ken Kelley, and Alan Turner to pla cond in
the event

Speaking of Alan Turner, his run parti
ly exciting to wateh: all afternoon, In. on i
another he came high-stepping down the final few vard
eating up the distance and leaving his opponents behind
him

Phere were other outstanding evel ut t} {
Billy Mill luel with High Point Colleg Steve Bowel
in the pole vault, injured captain Bob Cordle’s perforn
ances in the broad jump (which he won) and three run-

ning events, and High Point's record-breaking distance
relay teams, were but a few of the particulars that made

the Davidson relays the most exciting sports event of the]

season.

The weather was beautiful and there was plenty of
action. If you missed the Relays, then you missed a real
attraction.

We congratulate the track team on their winning
effort.

SPRING VERSATILITY...

On another part of this page, there is the picture of
three of Davidson's most versatile athletes. All three of
these men have played at least three varsity sports at
Davidson.

Sophomore Charlie Marcon was a guard on this
year’s basketball team and played in all but three games.
This spring he is one of the catchers for the baseball team,
and at the same time competes for the track team in the
hop, step, and jump event. Last Saturday he earned one
point with his fifth place finish in the Davidson Relays.

Sophomore Don Davidson, last year’s winner of the
outstanding freshman athlete’s award, was a starter for
this year’s basketball team. This spring he played quite
a bit of outfield for the baseball team and is the track
team’s leading javelin man. Last week he won the David-
son Relays’ javelin event with a throw of 183’ 2%”.

Senior Bob Cordle is probably one of the few men
to play four varsity sports at Davidson. He was captain of
this year’s varsity football. He has always been one of
the mainstays for the indoor track team, and he is cur-
rently captain of Davidson's outdoor trackmen and one
of the leading broad jumpers and dash men. Cordle’s
fourth varsity sport is baseball. He serves a rather unique
function on this team. This year the Southern Conference
has put into practice an experimental rule. This rule
allows the team at bat to substitute a runner anytime that
the pitcher or catcher reaches base with two out. The
purpose of the rule is to eliminate the delay which often
occurs when a pitcher or catcher must return to the dug-
out before taking his warmups at the end of an inning.
Cordle is Davidson's substitute runner. Already this sea-
son, he has stolen two bases.

Last Satu Davidson's track team captured the fourth annual Davidson Re
lays from’a field of athletes who represented fifteen participating schools
After touring t! pus and | " vere over k nd start toward a fine
‘ th ni f id Bill fourth place finish
Main Street, the i Frederick ¢ ‘ Davi juickly built up a
filed » the t ea it. 1 lead in the early afternoon field
hours of ie. al nt of W ) he events. Suffering from a-pulled
event ) rderw t 48 ta ( muscle, Bob Cordle managed to
ake the broad jump with a leap
of 21/11 The amazing: Don
Davids who finds time for
track after baseball practice i
the afte came. | through
with a first place in the javeli
competi His’ toss of 183
2" wst for the seas:
St | High .Poir
set a meet record in the pol
vault, « ng the bar at 12°6
Davids Billy Mills equalled
the. he t but had to settle for
second piace Humoder
jumps. The old reeord of 12’'2
wi Mil
i DT t
t : | } \
9
i -
I id
High Po juartet
After finishin econd ‘to La
noir. Rhyne's ‘record - breaking
time of 43 seconds flat in the
quarter-mile relay, the | ‘Cats

DAVIDSON'S THREE MOST VERSATILE SPRING ATH-
LETES, CHARLIE MARCON (CATCHING), BOB CORDLE (BAT-

| TING) AND DON DAVIDSON practice their early afternoon sport

| before adiourning to track practice. Track Captain Cordie doubles
as a sprinter and broad jumper, Marcon is a triple jumper and
| Davidson throws the javelin.

Baseball Team Splits
Two With The Citadel

BY FORREST ROLES
Davidsonian Sports Writer
Davidson's improving baseball team again split even,
last week, as they dropped the first game of last Friday’s}
double header to The Citadel 8-2, but came back to take
the second, 3-1. A game against Belmont Abbey was rain-
ed out the following Tuesday.
In Friday's first game, Dave provided Cole with his winning
Johnson, the ‘Cats’ leading pitch- margin
er couldn't get anyone out. Lance Walker, Davidson's
After retiring the first Citadel! leading hitter opened the fourth
batter in the first, Johnson inning with a line single. After
watched The Citadel score seven Rick Smyre popped up, McNay
runs on six hits and an error drove his second triple into left
before he could retire another center scoring Walker. Right
man. Tom Hamilton’s fine job in fielder Tommy James then
finishing the game was of no drove in McNay with a single
avail as the Bulldogs won 8-2 This afternoon the ‘Cats left

on their northern conference)
In the second game, it was swing. Tomorrow they face the
another story. This time, Ear] Richmond Spiders in Richmond |

These three men are among Davidson's finest ath-|
letes and among some of the most versatile athletes to
ever perform at this school. We take this opportunity to
thank them for their efforts.

A SPRING CHAMPION ...
Right now there 1s only one member of the student

body who has ever played for a Davidson Southern Con-|
ference Championship team. In the spring of 1960, the,
Davidson golf team won the Southern Conference Tour-|

nament. and one of the outstanding members of this team |
is still with us at Davidson. This week’s honors go to
Donald M. McQueen, a former Davidson champion now!
recovering from a spring basketball (gym-rat league) in-|
jury. Congratulations champ.

Chevy I! and

Brand new Corvalr Monzas,
Chevrolet impailas at low rates. Rent acar the
BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day.
You buy only the gas you need.*

We Feature Free Hotel and Airport

Pickup and Delivery Service.
376-0213
301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

in a twin bill. Monday they will]
George Washington in|

Cole threw a three hitter, and
his teammates hit in the clutch

face

as the ’Cats won 3-1. Tony Me: Washington for another double
Nay led the ‘Cats’ attack with header. The ‘Cats will close their
| two triples, one instrumental in season May 10 and May 11!
the two run fourth inning that against Rollins here
BATTING ai
Name AB R H RBI BA }|
Lance Walker 39 7 14 7 359. $I
Rick Smyre 70 7 19 1¢ 271
Phil Squier 38 8 10 3 263
Tom Hamilton 70 15 16 i) 229 ¢|
Tony McNay 58 5 13 9 224
Tom Whitley 70 9 15 12 214
PITCHING
Name iP H R ER‘’sBBSOW-L ERA

Earl Cole 44 38 25 12 26 38 1-3 2.45

Dave Johnson 422; 39. 30 13 29 26. 2-5 2.74
Paul Briggs 314% 33.18 15 16 27 1-3 4.18
Tom Hamilton 2814 29 19 17 17 32 2-1 5.40
In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen fora...
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

managed a second place tie with
Washington and Lee in the 880
yard relay. The familiar combin
ation of Alan Turner, Joel Mor
risett, Ken Kelley, and Bob Cor
dle made up Davidson's 880 yard
relay team. In the interval be
tween these two events, David-
son had carried away a second

place in the sprint medley relay |
competition

The stage
dramatic close to the day's ef-|
forts; Coach Whittle’s Wildeats |
needed a fourth place finish in|
the final event, the two-mile re- |
lay, to beat out Washington and}
Lee for first place. Running the |
first half mile for Davidson,
Denny Phillips ran up an early
lead of some 10 yards over the
High Point entrant, only to see
the margin disintegrate by the
time he had passed the baton to
Bob Leslie. Despite good per-
formances by Sterling Martin
and Ronnie Reese, the latter do-
ing his 880 in 1:59, High Point
took first with a time of 8:07.3,
thirteen seconds better than the
old record set by them in 1961.
Davidson's second place finish
was good for a first place in the
meet, the ‘Cats amassing 424
points. Washington and: Lee was
second, and Lenoir Rhyne was

was now set for a]

AIRBORNE ON FIBER GLASS....

AND CLEARS....

A SAFE LANDING....

record

Mills’

Davidson Relays. previous

12°24’

POLE VAULTER BILL MILLS SHOWS
THE FORM he used in breaking his own school
record with a leap of 126” Saturday in the

Netters Whip Deacons,
Lose TwoTo Tough Foes

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Dropping two conference matches over the past weekend the Davidson College
tennis team returned to the home court to defeat the netters. from Wake Forest on
Wednesday 5-3. The Wildkittens swept their match from the Baby Deacs 9-0

Last weekend. the ‘Cats met the number one doubles team of .match was defaulted to the
with some bad. Juck and fell to Austell and Bill Shutt Hokies, who took the match 63
VMI and VPI, respectively. On Traveling to Blacksburg on ‘Avainst the Deacons from
Friday, the locals lost 63 in Saturday, the ‘Cats racquetmen wake forest. the local netters
what might be called a mild up- were upended by:a strong VPIT. ¢ook throes ngles matches ahd
set; the Wildcats were hurt team. Austell again won, taking two doubles mate! to capture
early when Frank Bumgardner the only singles match for Da- their ninth victory against
twisted his ankle and had to de- vidson, Autell then joined Shutt twelve defeats.
fault both his singles and doub- again to capture the number one SS PR acer eee een
les matches. Winning for the doubles while Gene McCutcheon

Backlund, Ariail and Rick Reed.
in the singles; Austell and Shutt
: | captured the number one
| doubles and Ariail and Reed
} combined nicely to capture the
|number three doubles: The fi-
/ | nal doubles match was called be-

| cause of darkness.

The freshmen ran over the
Wake Forest frosh, in snatching
their second victory against one

and Backlund took the other
‘Cat win; the third doubles

‘Cats were seniors, Captain Bob-
by Austell, Bill Backlund, and

N.C. State Drops Golfers

Conference Tourney Next

BY TUCK JONES Members of the winning

Assistant Davidsonian Sports Editor Dick Hurd, Woody

Coach Tom Scott’s varsity golf team completed its} Cleveland, David, Meschan, Bill
final tune-up for the Southern Conference tournament} Council, Jeff Frank, and Jack

| defeat
; team were

Now Bus Station and

Ticket

Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

third : with a 14-6 loss to North Carolina State Thursday at Gas- | Goodykoontz, ‘Ihe Wake frosh
Pig ee m pees tonia. _| ineluded Sharon Buchi a ae ee
= + _ — pete vd igo The defeat gave the ‘Cats a Clelland and. Mims Rogers shot; Yeung -miss trom Nashville
gia ne Deacons, led by i ’ vam - Tenn., who. lost to Couneil
Dave Turner, promise to be éx season's record of 5-6. Highlight Davidson's low scores of wel i Tenn., wh 4
$ ees 8 The squad will depart Sunday; ‘Tomorrow Wilde
tremely touzh competition and a] of the day was a hole in one by eg ate * : ee
7 . r Myrtle Beael here. they} ballers meet Duke at Durhan
major test for an ambitious Day-| States Mickey Goodwin. playing will ‘host Bo , Z ak : ; cae / say : :
idson squad. cgninat Max ky Me lel saath me aa scien ak wend Poneanaag
a sites, ‘ Club beginning May 8. Although; ton, D.  ( May 6, 7; -and
the te wns a 40 conference George Wash
—_-: — slate, Coach Scatt - commented; host school: Following th
AT TH that this record means very | nament the netters wi ‘ nm
GONDOLA RESTAURANT tle. But adds that he considers} to play host to East Ca t
his team a potential darkhorse| a non-conference match + \
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. for tournament honors eee
CHARLOTTE peace cto
WHILE ENJOYING _
THE BEST |
os | VISIT THE
j

Tastee Freez

In Cornelius

HAMBURGERS
CHEESEBURGERS HOT DOC
GONES FRENCH FRIES

for: MILK SHAKES

ates ¢
a FR

Office

