FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

| |
° % ws . SOUTHERN CONFERENCE :
’ ) ’ Conference All Games
w L —S SS ££
BY BILL PRIDGEN sion ball that went down to the from Wake Forest 90-75 in one| presented with a Sports Illus- West Va. 10 2 833 16 7 MS
Sports Editor wire. of the highlight games of the pros award for od fine per- Davidson 7 3 .700 17 é 7177
n. ormance as a athlete and a
‘iia ‘e Dea. Sinee their last Davidson Wm. & Mery 2. ae ae
il | (i il LG HTS Coach “Lefty” Driesell’s Dea game the Bulldogs have been Never in danger after a late | Mhodes Scholar winner. G. Wesh. ‘ 4 “00 8 12 Mo
con-taming Basketballers close , first half j I ,
" tough competition. In their last irst surge put them in nm a game prior to the varsity Furman 8 6 571 | 13 458
nd out their febulous SBS sensen | with George Wash- {font 38-29, Coach “Lefty” Drie-| clash, Davidson's frosh, under P
a with the Luckless Bulldogs from ‘three games, rge , ae Va. Tech 6 5S S45 0 0 500
The Citadel t in ington, VMI, and Furman, the sell's team showed that they|Coach Joe Hunt, ran up a 79-63
n_dlnnesroncygiy:- cagliags int ad has not been over Were really “up for this one.”| victory over the Wake freshmen. Ve. Military sd 10 333 4 3 «278
Johnston Gymnasium at 8 p.m. P0!nt spre : Dick Snyd Richmond 2. ae eS
ae 2 four points. An added incentive Barry Teague, starting for the nycer pumped in 32 , 18
Riding high on the crest Of to the Bulldogs is the fact that first time since January, looked points for the victors and Ron- The Citadel 2 . . 2 2 Ss
a {ix game winning streak, this is their last chance to es- as good as he did in the Duke| Me Stone put in another 23. ;
and a spectacular victory over cape the conference cellar and game. Big guns for the ‘Cats
BY BILL PRIDGEN Wake Forest Wednesday night earn a berth in the tournament were Bill Jarman and Fred Het.
the 'Cats have only to down the next weekend. zel. Jarman, playing one of his \

A GOOD NIGHT

It looked like a good night after seven minutes of
the first half with the score 12-7, Davidson leading. It
> a better night at the half with Davidson 37,

ake 28.

With ten minutes left to play and the ’Cats out in
front 63-51 the night looked even better.

And when that horn went off with the scoreboard
showing 90-75, nobody in the world could. have told us
it waxn’t a good night. (For Davidson, that is.)

It reminded us of another similar night about two
months ago at the same place when the victim was Duke.
There weren't quite as many people perhaps, and perhaps
there wasn’t quite the same tenseness and anticipation,

"Dogs to wind up with an 186
record, best in the school’s bas-
ketball history.

Although the hapless Bulldogs
only possess a 2-19 record this
is no sign that the game will be
an easy one for the ’Cats. Ear-
lier in the season at the Bull-
dogs home lair at Charleston,
S. C., Driesell’s boys were only
able to squeak out a 5049 vic-
tory in a slow game of posses-

best games of the season, scored

‘ith their 7- :
The ‘Cats who with their 7-3 30, his season high, and Hetzel

conference record have assured
themselves second seating in the added 22 more. |
conference tournament will be The game gave the ‘Cats a/
out to finish off their season fine comeback for last year’s)
with a big win—the ‘Cats have 93-63 loss to the Deacons.
been unbeatable on home terri- At a halftime ceremony,
tory this year. | senior guard Danny Carrell was

I-F BASKETBALL

Wednesday night saw a hard-|
working ’Cat quint drop “Bones”
McKinney’s Demon Deacons;

Whittlemen Compete

RESULTS

TUESDAY’S ACTION

but the feeling was the same when it was over. a | Kappa Sigs 72 — Betas 53
The most obvious thing that we noticed about the | e To rh i _— ee
‘Cats’ playing was their hustle. They were up for the} SAE's 33 — Sigma Chis 30
game and played a hard game all the way. Phi Gams 65 Pikas 34
BY DENNY PHILLIPS ,
Everybody played top-notch ball, but it was pretty Sports Staff Writer MONDAY’S ACTION
obvious as to who was the big man on the court. Bill Independents 55 — Phi Gams 52 ‘ ,
Jarman didn't miss many, and when he did he was usual- | On Saturday, track teams from South Carolina, North | : a Al 2iNG Much to the ettors of the Phi SON 4 led the Delts over the KA‘s, 59
ly fouled. And he didn’t miss any of those foul shots. | Carolina, Virginia, the District of Columbia, and West Bet4s +4 — Sigma Nus 29 Delts in this year's Interfraternity basketball 40. The De'ts remain one of the two undefea:
His thirty ints is reminiscent of the last Wake | Virginia will converge on Lexington, Va. for the annual | ATO’s 56 Pi Kapps 34 action is sophomore PHIL SQUIER shown here ed teams in the basketball action. (Staff Phorc
‘Hits Uirty points is reminiscent of the las : aKe- | Southern Conference Indoor Track Meet. Phi Delts 52 — KA’s 40 going up for another shot. SQUIER, formerly by McCutchen)
Davidson clash, where ‘he also a a ey, “Sat The meet is to be held in points with his first and second one of the fabulous frosh of HETZEL, DAVID.
the other aspects of that game weren't so pleasant. ge ' eer Ogata STANDINGS —_- espe iatleieita tans seus
VMI's fieldhouse, which con- place finishes. He beat every-|
We rather enjoyed the verbal war between “Bones’’| tains a 220-yard cinder track. one else to the tape in the 60-| ream wo
McKinney and “Lefty” Driesell that went on in the papers | Furman’s Paladins are a strong yard dash with a time of 65 Silieiiaiheniss —
over the past week. Both Driesell and McKinney are} favorite to retain the team title seconds, and finished a very| P
colorful coaches and often make some amusing com-} which they won last year. close second in the 70-yard low | Phi Delts 4 9
ments. Although Davidson isn’t plan- hurdles. | Phi Gams 3 1
; ing to win the conference  Rouyndi t the team’s total) Kappa Sigs = ‘
cially glad that we won that one because |""& * COURTING oO cams total!
we aue-aue ys f set t limb. If championship, Coach Heath of 12 points were fourth-place ' Betas 3 2| ‘
our comments last week sort of set us out on a limb. If we Whittle is “very pleased” with finishes by Bob Cordle in the’ s ii :
: 3 y igma is 2 2)
had lost we probably would have had to turn in our jock. the team’s efforts 0 far this broad emp and Paul Montgom.| oot :*
Not meaning to rub it in, but we would like to ask | year. ery in the pole vault. lic oe : “| BY JOMNNY CLARK
one question, “Is there anyone who still says we can’t play! what's there to be _— — pete 2 rd Sports Staff Writer
“on; 9 2 , te a) o/ . * . ‘ .
Big Four” ball? about you say? Matmen Close Vear Pi Kapps oe oe On the basis of past performances in the annual classic, Davidson's Wildcat:
ADDED ATTRACTIONS | _ Well, there’s always Sterling A sagt “| will be battling heavy odds when they begin play at Richmond in the Southern Con
| Martin. The indefatigable senior/ ya.¢ night the ‘Cat matmen 5!8™4 Nus 1 3) ference tournament, Feb. 28. Davidson has lost 10 of the 12 games she has played in
There appears to be an added attraction for the from Charlestown, W. Va. seems} scored their fifth win of the Pikas 1 4 the tournament and by virtue of her poor records has qualified to appear in only 16
performance which will be put on by the touring tennis | ¢stined to have his finest track) season by dropping Pfeiffer Col-' SPE’s 9 4/of the 43 tournaments played since 1921.
show on Monday, March 4 senna ‘ye as he turned am an: | lege, 21-11. The ‘Cats had also, ~~ a a “i “ Barting any big upsets this conference members, scther thai
as : — ps lige Rg them earlier in “iN g Pp te | weekend, Davidson will meet West Virginia, which can tay
Coach Harry Fogleman has contacted the Queens : apes aa) | ene etmen tart ractices ...:: place VMI in the first any claim to fame in the tourns

College tennis team, and these young ladies, all dressed | State, U.N.C., and Wake Forest) |

‘ 4 . * : up with the Indoor Track Meet last weekend
in white, will be put in charge of keeping up | at Chapel Hill. ‘Martin sprinted|

The Colonel:
snd 1961 are

ment's history
wins in 1943,. 1954

The match was close up to the leader West

177 lb. division where the score

; round, conference

‘Set For Tough Season

Virginia will tangle with Rich-

i F if you don’t like tennis, you ae .. .|Was 11-11 until Tom Day (177
—_ sees pond — ord : ; , | the. last lap to ‘finish ‘third: in} lb.) and Russell Walls (Heavy- mond’s Spiders, William & Mary. the only other championship:
might enjoy going and watching the girls chase the balls. | the 2-mile run with a fine 9:50|-”. alls (Heavy-| | '
| clocking Sephomore teammate | Wight) both scored pins to BY FORREST ROLES will contend with the disap- by members of +! presen:
“ ” ~ : 3 5 at | hoa hea i Eg age e
HOW ABOUT IT, BONES ? Chester Davis finished sons 9g erties ay Sports Staff Writer a myo les gp i —
: ’ : : ¥ ‘ # y -rno > grap. | ech, anc ‘urman wi play . ; :
Ss. 4 ” McKinney wearing his red | With a time of 10:26. : va 5 : f : | Washington & Leé wii
Boo Why seat Bones” M y 8 Tom Heffner, another sopho- plers close out their season Since Feb. 5 Davidson's tennis team of four letter-! George Washington. a ° ey
socks any more. more, ran the mile in 4:38,|484inst a tough University of | ee affiliated, won twooe, and. thi
—— - _ serait ' 138, ‘ men, five sophomores, and one returnee, has been work-| Unless The Citadel whi s the
winding up in fifth place. stead ing out under the direction of coach Harry Fogleman lw a pa geting eens
But it was in the sprints that} The next action they will see Se . : | Wildcats tomorrow night, she present members «f the South
Davidson reached its glory,| will be in the conference tour-; The team started conditioning gan State will finish ninth and thus be eastern and Atlan‘): Coast con

Re

av.

SEEMINGLY SUSPENDED IN MID-AIR, CARTER MEBANE,

Captain of the local tankmen, takes a practice start. MEBANE
came within two-tenths of a second from breaking the 25 yd.
free style while on the team trip to Georgia. Swimmer in back-
ground is either extremely shy or wiping the water from his
eyes. (Staff Photo by Buck Lawrimore)

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETH

Brand new Corvair Monzas, Chevy !| and
Chevrolet Impalas at low rates. Rent a car the
BUDGET Way, less per mile, less per day.
You buy only the gas you need.*
We Feature Free Hotel and Airport
Pickup and Delivery Service.

376-0213

thanks to the efforts of sopho-
more Alan Turner. Turner got
two-thirds of Davidson's total

Shue's Mermen Set
For Tough VPI Clash

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Sports Staff Writer

Losing 57-38 yesterday to a
strong William and Mary team,
the Davidson College Swimming
Team travels to Blacksburg, Va.
on Monday to meet VPI in an-
other Southern Conference
meet.

Without the services of Steve
Davidson and Dan Campbell, a
couple of strong sophomore

sprinters, the ‘Catfish really felt |

their absence in absorbing their
fifth defeat in seven outings.
Leading the ’Cats were Dick
Fromm with a first in the diving
and Jim Grey with a first in the
200 Free with a time of 2:09.
Leading the Indians was Ron
| Good who took firsts in the 50
| and 100 Freestyle events, ede:
| ing out Carter Mebane in both
| ey ents.
On their Georgia trip
Mebane, senior captain of the
‘Cat swimmers bettered the old
Davidson 50 Free mark with °
time of 23.7, but lost the rac:
by .2 of a second: Mebane has
been Davidson's most consistent
| performer.
Fromm, a junior from Rich-
mond, Va., has shined in the
| diving event winning 2 of 3
) events on the Georgia trip, after
having a bout with the fiu.
Dwight Shoe, the Davidson
mentor, not too pleased with his
team’s record, stated: “The team
definitely needs more depth and
experience. Within the next two
years, we should gain this depth |
and be a consistent contender
for the Southern Conference
top-notch freshmen in
Waldon who should help us out
tremendously.”
Returning from VPI, the Dav-
idson mermen will play host to

301 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

VMI before traveling to
Charleston to the Southern Con-

title; we are picking up three |)
Jim |
Stokes, Joe Hensley, and Mark}

ference Meet, March 7, 8, and 9.

and

only members of last year’s top
i six who returned this year. Al-

so, every doubles combination

On top of this, Coach Fogle-
man has scheduled a far tough-
er schedule than last year’s, in-
cluding such tennis strongholds
as Toledo, Indiana, and Michi-

ton, W. Va. }advent of some good weather,
2 seas ae they've been working out on the
Basketball Feature '"‘
|
squad received added recogni: letterman Bill Backlund are the
tion recently when they were
[tows (page 27).
This layout features sopho- |’
Coach “Lefty” Driesell, but | graduation.
senior Bill Jarman and other
tion. The layout is a fine. com-
pliment to Davidson's ‘best

nament on March 7-9 at Charles-| in the gymnasium, but with the
| hard courts at North Mecklen
Davidson's Wildcat basketbal!| Captain Bobby Austell
featured in a layout in Sporting
more star Fred Hetzel and) 0f last year was broken up by
‘Cat basketballers get recogni-
ever” in basketball.

NETMEN JUMPING ROPE? — This is what it has been like
at the gym for the past couple of weeks as Coach HARRY FOGLE-
MAN gets his boys in shape for this spring. Team Captain BOBBY
AUSTELL doesn’t seem to be enjoying his pasttime greatly—nor
the sit-ups, or the pushups, or the weight lifting. —

However, Coach Fogleman ineligible for tournament. play
refuses to be pessimistic about

his team's chances for a good West \ of
season. “Last year, we won eight | seven-of nine tournaments play-
and lost ten. The boys hope we} eq since the Atlantic Coast Con-
will never have another losing

ferences.

rginia, winner *

Held in the pz wt Atlanta
Raleigh, and Durham, the ebin-

inations were played in Morgar

‘i ‘ ference teams departed i , tow lest Vir: ‘
record at Davidson,” he said. |_ a in 1953, town, West Virginie in 1984 and
}is a heavy favorite to win her have since beer. Sekt in Rich
-Bometione tis . week. Coach | sighth wn. She is not. in- mond Arena. Hurting from lack
Pomamen “Hepes ‘to. be able. to vincible though, having dropped of 5s I ill
start playing on the new courts | <i aoe Rent an - of support, the tourney will
at Davidson, which have yet to| "sular ison games to Wil- probably pull up stakes again

be worked completely into|liam & Mary and Furman this next year and head south to the
shape. year. coliseum of either: Htacksburs
; “When og “ these nase in To further keep the Mountain- Va. or Charlotte

shape, > 8 s ‘ : ER

shape, and the stands built.” | ors. from resting too comfort-

Coach Fogleman said, “we're go- ‘

ing to have one of the finest col- ably is the memory of the 1961
lege tennis layouts in the coun-| tournament, when seventh place |
tex.” | George Washington’s rags-to-|

The members of the squad riches team eliminated them |
are: Bobby Austell, John Ariail, from contention to become con-| All freshmen interested in
Frank Baumgardner, Bill Back- ference champions. | playing baseball! this spring
lund, Gene McCutchen, Bob| | report to the gym fev a meeting
Orr, Rick Reed, Bill Wideman, Actually, George Washington | 9h Tuesday afterncaer, at? 3:15
Joe Wolfe, and Bill Schutt. is the only team among present (Feb. 26).

FRESHMAN
BASEBALL

-- ania semana

botany...monotony
notes...quotes...trig
..-ig...review...Stew

fuss...diSCuss...cram
exam...Wwow. ..whew

take a break...things go with Coke

Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by:

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina
