PAGE FOTIR

Earlier this year, W. H. Tilley.
new addition for the English
department, outlined his views
on this problem in a DAVID-

students after vespers this Sunday night: a
nn Anderson
n-ne Dame Judith
Gallent McGill Sailstad
Goodykoontz Mebane Tilley Drama Day at Davidson College on March 1 will give students of drama and
Ghigo Meeks aerry pson world literature_an afternoon and evening of the theatre. -— p serick. _
Hampton Mrs. Moore White, H. E. The Vagabonds will present|three events will be held and is an lastie actor te eee a
Lester Pinkerton Winkler Elmer Rice’s Adding Machine at| distributed to the faculty lead- vet it . he is iden.
4:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. This! ers of the groups on March 1. __ tified by millions of daytime Ty
prorceovacconornrorereserereenreoee will be followed by an informal| Dame Judith Anderson's ap- fans as the southern colonel on
snack supper and drama discus-| pearance at Davidson College on the “Clear Horizon” series.
| fi ( | d M h 1963 sion with the Vagabonds as| March 1 as star of “Lady Mac- e
ec 1ons a en ar a” arc ’ hosts in Chambers Banquet}beth” and “Medea” will give
Tues., Mar. 5—Nominations for Student Body 3) Hall. theatregoers an. opportunity to Va abonds (a t
Officers. The highlight of the schedule| sce the most celebrated per-| W@Q s
Wed., Mar. 6—Voting for Student Body Officers. }| will be the appearance of Dame|formances of the “outstanding |, * M oe)
Thur., Mar. 7—Voting. Judith Anderson at 8:15 p.m. in| classical actress of the English Adding achine
Fri, Mar. 8—Voting. Chambers Auditorium. This is| speaking stage.” | Casting for the next mai
Mon., Mar. 11—Speeches in assembly by no more $]her only appearance in North} The vengeful fury Medea 1S; roduction of the Vagabonds
than four or less than three candi- Carolina. often considered one of the most ' Elmer Rice’s The Addin Ma.
dates for the Presidency of the A special group rate per stud-| demanding parts ever written chine which will be presentes
_- \ l Student Body. A question-and-an- ent covers admission to the/for a woman. One critie in de-| 105. o7-March 2 in Ho dson Hall
LEAR MR. PRESIDENT: A serious Prof. science instructor is leaving at the end of the swer forum will be held Monday Adding Machine, toma Sern ne he tant pith ae! the Cunningham Music and
Miller seems to have some important business Semester. (Staff Photo by McCutchen) 3 Tues., Mar 12Voting. for the final Presidential con performance ‘Rerervations earthquake Then she builds toa Fine Arts Center on the David.
wn_mind as he toes. The novice political ° , candidates. Voting for the other ‘must be made before Feb. 26 climax.” Before Dame Judith was announced this
e Student Body Officers. if neces- 3. by high school or college offi-|opened the Jeffers-Euripides _ lay, El ;
M iller Pp | a ns De artu re sary. ; cials for groups of 10 or more.| play, the idea of offering Greck! In this p ty ner Rice seeks
] Nominations for the Honor Court. Only 250 students can be ac-|drama to the American public |? oe liar ang mind of
Wed., Mar. 13—Presidential runoff, if necessary. $|comodated for this special pro-] was regarded as a dubious com-, he white-co . ven er and
e Voting for members of the Honor [gram of modern and classic] mercial venture. |e a view of a slave-type of
g | ver A P : ‘ ; life and how such a perso
Court. if there is no Presidential drama. The opening night triumph, Person is
ues ions oO ege 0 e runoff. | Student groups will report to| when the New York audience |The ad mate cate. ease.
. — Pj j ; . $'Hodson Hall immediately on | literally stood up and cheered, , Ir.
BY CHARLES RAMBERG Thur., Mar. 14 can Voune toe I runoff, if tthe their arrival on the Davidson| was a theatrical landmark: For Zero is played by Pete Myers.
Davidsonian Assignments Editor ; Honor Court. if there is no Presi- campus. Group tickets for the| the first time in modern Ameri-; The lead female roles of Mrs.
___ How does:a small college prevent its intellectual atmosphere from becoming dential runoff _ ca a classic Greek drama was a|Zero and Daisy are played by
stifling? Fri... Mar. 15—Voting for members of the Honor RC Takes Peep solid box-office hit. Mrs. Kay ovepectively mien

Goodykoontz

(Continued From Page One)
nation has been his inability to
handle both Vagabonds business
and the three classes he teaches
since he lost the help of Stowell.
“Cm worn out. I couldn't do
anything else.”

He noted that one of the few
times any immediate action has
fheen taken on Vagabond re-
4{uests was when both he and
Stowell resigned last fall. “What

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After

Vespers Open Houses

The following professors will hold open house for

Drama

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1963

Day Features

would have to be not merely
tolerated but welcomed.”

Miller pointed out two

reasons why he doubted that
Davidson presently provides
an atmosphere conducive to
new ideas.

‘First, many students seem
to have been conditioned to sit
passively and take copious
notes. They hesitate to confront
the teacher with their questions
and criticisms.

“Also, I notice. the lack of an
interdepartmental dialogue. I
sense a fear on the part of some
that if they commit themselves
in areas outside their discip-

SONIAN interview. Tilley was
particularly interested in the
problem of maintaining inter-
departmental communication.

This week, Political Science
Instructor E. F. Miller. also a
new member of the faculty, con-
tinued the discussion by pre-
senting his opinions.

At the same time, Miller
was announcing his intention
to leave the college at the end
of this semester to take a posi-
tion af Furman University.

Miller has formed definite
opinions on the future role of
the college in his time here. -

“I sense an indecisiveness

about what sort of school David-

help we have gotten has been: son should become, whether it
too little and too slow.” should be merely a training

lines—in philosophy, history, or
religion, for example—that they
will be judged incompetent by

Court.

Mon., Mar. 18—Speeches by YMCA Presidential
candidates. Voting for members of
the Honor Court, if necessary.

Tues. Mar. 19—Voting for officers of the YMCA.
Voting for members of the Honor
Court, if necessary.

Nominations for Freshman Ad-
viser by rising Senior Class.

Wed., Mar. 20—Voting for publication editors.
Freshman Adviser, and Cheer-
leaders.

Thur., Mar. 21—Voting for publication editors,
Freshman Adviser, and Cheer-
leaders. Nominations for the Stud-
ent Council.

Mar. 22—Voting for publication editors,
Freshman Adviser, and Cheer-
leaders, if necessary. Voting for
members of the Student Council,
if the other elections are complet-

Fri.,

| Dr. Edmund Weiant, professor

: International

At USSR Changes

of Russian at Queens, will speak
on recent changes in the Soviet
Union at the meeting of the
Relations Club
next Monday. The meeting will
be held 7:15 in the Green
Room of the Union.

Of particular interest will be

student newspapers which he
saw when he was in Russia in
1961. These newspapers appear
mysteriously on the Russian

The “Medea” to be presented| Winkler ctive
at Davidson College has been | Louise Hampton is directing the
abridged to cut minor characters Play.
and speed the drama's violent) Experimental, too, are the
action. This allows time for! sets and lights. The sets will! be
Dame Judith and three fellow, silhouetted against lighted grim
actors to present “Lady Mac- | background. Sidney = Farrar,
beth” as a first act. The star, freshman piano student, is writ-
won two TV “Best Actress’ |ing and recording the music for
Emmies for her dramatic study! the production.
of ambition and murder in this| The night performances will
role. Her performance concludes be at 8:15 Feb. 27 and 28 and
with the celebrated sleepwalk-; March 2. On Friday, March 1.
ing scene. there will be a matinee at 4:30,

Appearing as “Macbeth” and:one of the features of Drama
“Jason” opposite Dame Judith Day.

campuses from time where they
are quickly suppressed by the
government.

“1 think the Vagabonds wil]
* get more support now that I’m
Sut because some of the ad-
ministration femily apparent-
ty think, consciously or un-
consciously, that | encourage
whet they consider to be sec-
religious and vulger aspects
of our productions.

ground for the professional
schools or whether it should
have a liberal arts program
comparable to some of the fin-
er mid-western and northern
liberal arts colleges.

“1 think there ts a recognition
that far reaching changes in the
curriculum must be made to

_ “HE extraneously dragged inj give Davidson a high national
it is wrong, but this has never | standing.”

Yrappened. Modern drama is full
of it. You can’t have creativity
with censorship, students are to
be expected to reflect the cul-
ture of their own time in their
writing.”

Goodykoontz also noted prob-
lems related to the facilities of

Citing the Numanities pro-
gram as a step in the right
direction, Miller nonetheless
expressed the fear that it
might not be able te achieve
its high goals as a pionegr in-
terdepartmenta! course.

“It would be most unfortun-

the Fine Arts Center, originally | ate if the Humanities program
planned for music purposes. The | became merely a facade behind

stage itself and the lighting are
examples.

While talking about the in-
adequacy of the lighting, he
tmentioned another problem—
that of getting maintenance
work done on the equipment
used for dramatics. It broke
down last October, but was final-
ly fixed only this month, and
then only after a meeting in the
president’s office.

“We also have no transporta-
tion. In the course of producing

‘a play, almost daily trips are
necessary to get supplies. In the
past this transportation has
been. provided by student and
faculty cars without cost to the
college. There was some talk
about getting a pickup truck for
the dramatics program, but
nothing has ever come of it.”

Finally, scheduling the use of
the Fine Arts Center has been a
problem. “Doug Houchens in
the arts area has always tried
to help us solve our problems.
The same cannot be said for the
music department, which has
given us many headaches un-
necessarily. Drama is $queezed
in between art and = music.
Winterset had only three re-
hearsals on the stage before it
began its run.” .

{In conclusion, Goodykoontz
stated, “I hove no one is under
the illusion that the mere hiring
of a professional director will
solve all the problems of drama
at Davidson. We have had pro-
fessional directors before—and
we had very little: drama. In
fact. for a while we had none
at all although the director was
here. No, the problems arc real
problems. They will not go a-
way at a word. They must be

faced realistically—if we are to) the first president of the com-, mount of money available for| changes should be made in Dav-

which traditional curriculum
were maintained—an illustrated
history course, for example.”
“Professor Tilley in a recent
DAVIDSONIAN interview said
that he sensed a desire of Dav-
idson College to be a place
where ideas are made, not just
passed on,” Miller stated.
“Obviously. to achieve this
goal more professors are need-
ed who can create ideas. I am
not sure that Davidson is willing
to run the risk of having such
people on campus. To attract
and hold creative minds would
necessarily mean that new and
controversial ideas about the
college’s function, about curri-
culum and teaching approaches

Moravian To Talk
At Vespers Sunday

Dr. James C. Hughes, pastor
of the Home Moravian Church
of Winston-Salem, will lead the|
vesper service Sunday night.
The sophomores are reminded
of their free cut. |

A native of Winston-Salem,
Hughes received his BA degree
from Moravian College of Beth-
Jehem. Pa.. in 1945. his BD from
the Moravian Theological Sem: ;

those who specialize in these
fields.”

His final statement said
plainly why he feels there is
a need for better interdepart-
mental communication. “The
quest for truth cannot be neet-
ly segmented into disciplines.”

Why did he decide to leave
the Davidson campus?

“I've decided that in the fu-
ture I wish to teach full time
in political science. Since an
opportunity has become avail-
able at Furman. I've decided to
accept it as offering a better
means of establishing a career
in political science.”

the week of March 25.

Trustee

(Continued From Page One)

outdoor concerts, and in the col-
lege’s developing education pro-
gram as a site for seminars and
informal adult gathcrings.

“We are extremely grateful
to Duke Power Company for
opening up this great new ave-
nue of college development to

ed.
Student Council elections shall be completed during

the political science curriculum
at Davidson. Miller observed
that most colleges the size of
Davidson have a larger depart-
ment with more varied offer-
ings. His departure will leave
the department with only one
man, Dr. W. P. Minter. The de-
partment has six different
course offerings.

“{ don’t think there is a lack
of student interest in political
science,” he stated. ‘Some very
good students have expressed
to me a genuine interest in poli-

us. All concerned can be assured
that Davidson will make every
effort to put it to uses which
will be of benefit not only to
Davidson, but to this entire sec-
tion of the state.” Dr. Richards
said.

Commented College Business
Manager Robert Currie. “As the
use of the area progresses, we
will be in a position to know
the priority of facilities needed.
We will locate these facilities in
accordance with a master plan.

Martin also presented to the

tical science courses. I’m disap-| Trustees for their consideration
pointed that I won't, be here‘ two plans of curriculum schedul-

next year to work with them.”

Noting the number of pre-
tew students, Miller further
stated thet there is definitely
a need for a good political
science program.

When asked to comment
|

ing, either of which, if even-
tually accepted, would radical-
ly change Davidson's tradition-
al semester plan. In anticipation
of the increasing numbers of
college students in the next

Miller commended Dr. Minter] few years, one plan calls for a
for maintaining a good selection} year-round scheduling of class-

of courses, but contended that
one man is under an insurmount-
able handicap in trying to pro-
vide a varied program.

“I was surprised at the size
of the program when I came,
and I'm still. surprised. I could
only guess at the explanation.”

President D. Grier Martin

spoke. of finances and the

large history department
when asked later about Mill-
er’s departure.

“T would like to have a strong

inary in 1947, and his DD from political science area.” he stat-
Moravian College in 1960. _ed. “We hope to strengthen that
In 1947, he became the assist- department.
ant pastor of the Home Morav-, “However, we can’t have a
ian Church and remained there multiple staff in all depart-
to become its minister in 1954./ ments. The large history depart-
While chairman of the inter-' ment makes up for a lot. A man
racial committee of the Winston- can major in history and take
Salem Ministers’ Association, a political science and be better
merger of tha white and Negro off than a political science ma-
ministers’ associations was com. , jor." Martin also noted that

es. This would permit more
students to receive teaching in
the course of a year without in-
creasing the enrollment. This
plan would also enable Davidson
students to receive a degree in
three years.

The second plan also has in
mind the rapid increase in col-
lege students, and suggests
either the tri-semester or
querter plans which are now
coming into greater use
throughout the country.

A Faculty-Trustee committee
of purpose is now working on a
report on the goals and purposes
of the college, and a major self-
study of the college is schedul-'
ed to begin this fall (required
by the Southern Association of
Colleges). “Such study will pro-
vide facts and recommendations
which may be vital in the de-.

pleted. Hughes then served as

have a healthy drama program.” | bined group.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
Cha

| 1318 W. Morehead

rlette, N.C.

there is not an unlimited a-| termination as to whether major’

faculty salaries.” | idson’s program,” Martin added.

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

= analysis of Russian

Another Queens professor,
Pr. Pohlman of the sociology
department, will speak at the
March 12 meeting on the Mos-
lem influence on the Pakistani
political situation. Pohlman was

FILM SCHEDULE

—

Feb. 2

eb. 26-Merch 2° Jules and | .the -Director of the US. Educa-
Jim . a .:
Mer. 5-9 Reaviem fo tional Missions in Pakistan from
ro equiem for 8 1/1958 to 1960 on a Fulbright
Heavyweight Grant.

Mar. 12-16. Boys’ Night Out The International Relations
Mar. 19-23 Wild Straw- || Club has no official membership
berries || and invites anyone who may be
Mar. 25-26 __.. The Vikings | jnterested to attend these lec

tures.

ry

>

LIEUTENANT JERRY HOLLMAN, PH.D. IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING

“Hf Thad it to do over again,
would | take Army R.0.1.C.?

You bet I would, and I'll tell you why. Army officers live
better than I expected. Take me. At the Army Signal
Research Lab in Fort Monmouth, I get a chance to put
my engineering background to good use. I keep on top
of new developments. The experience is terrific, and it’s
going to pay off whether or not I stay in the Army. From
Fort Monmouth I can go to a play in New York one
weekend, and visit Washington the next. On my officer's
salary I can afford it. Of course I have an active social

life on post, too. Officers’ club. Parties. Dances. You name |
it. My advice to you is this: if you have only two years |

to go for a commission, get it. Once on active duty,
you'll be mighty glad you did.”

HAIL TO THE DEAN!

let us examine that much maligned, widely misunder-
verworked, wholly dedicated campus figure—

°

officer. He in a counselor and
for the troubled student. The dean
the Greek Deanoe—to skewer) is characterised chiefly by
sympathy, wisdom, patience, forbearance, and a fondness for
homely pleasures like community singing, farina, spelldowne,
and Mariboro Cigarettes. The dean (from the German Deange-
machi—to poop a party) is fond of Marlboros for the same
reason that all men of good will are fond of Marlboros— because
Mariboro is an honest cigarette. Those good Marlboro tobaccos

\ | herp i lola dry eve i Vira

are honestly good, honestly aged to the peak of perfection, hon-
eatly blended for the best of all possible flavors. Mariboro
honestly comes in two different containera—a soft pack which
is honestly soft and a Flip-Top box which honestly flips. You
too will dip when next you try an honest Mariboro, which, one
honestly hopes, will be acon. ,

~

But 1 digress. We were learning how a dean helps poor,
troubled undergraduates. To illustrate, let us take a typical
case from the files of Dean 8...... of the University of Y.....
(Oh, why be eo mysterious? The dean’s name is Sigafoos and
the University is Yutah.)

Wise, kindly Dean Sigafoos was visited one day by a fresh-
man named Walter Aguincourt who came to ask permission to
marry one Emma Blenheim, his dormitory laundress. To the
dean the marriage seemed ill-advised, for Walter was only 18
years old and Emma was 91. Walter agreed with the dean, but
said he felt obligated to go through with it because Emma had
invested her life savings in a transparent rainhood to protect
her from the mist at Niagara Falls, where they planned to spend
their honeymoon. If Walter called off the wedding, what use
would the poor woman possibly have for a rainhood in Yutah?
The wise, kindly dean pondered briefly and came up with a
brilliant answer: let Waiter punch holes in the back of Emma’s
steam iron. With steam billowing back at the old lady, she
would find a rainhood very useful—possibly even essential.

Whimpering with gratitude, Walter kissed the dean’s Phi
Beta Kappa key and hastened away to follow his advice—and
the results, I am pleased to report, were madly successful!

Today Emma is a happy woman—singing lustily, wearing
her rainhood, cating soft-center chocolates, and ironing clothes

—twice as happy, to be candid, than if she had married Walter
... And what of Walter? He is happy too. Freed from his un-

wanted liaison with Emma, he married a girl much nearer his
own age—Agnes Yucca, 72. Walter is now the proud father—
stepfather, to be perfectly accurate—of three fine, healthy
boys from Agnes’s first marriage—Everett, 38; Wilhelm, 43;
and Irving, 55—and when Walter pute the boys on a lead and
takes them for a stroll in the park on Sunday afternoon, you
may be sure there is not a dry eye in Yutab.

And Dean Sigafoos? He too is happy—happy to spend long,
tiring hours in his little office, giving counsel without stint and
without complaint, doing his bit to set the young, uncertain
feet of hia charges on the path to a brighter tomorrow.

@ 1008 Maz Sbeiuse

e ° e

We don’t say Mariboro is the dean of Aiter cigarettes, but
we're sure ite at the head of the clase. Get some eoon—
wherever cigarettes ere sold in ail Afty etates of the Union.
