PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY; OCTOBER 18, 1963

King Sees No Possibility
Of Revolt In South Africa

“Oh definitely, it’

ject,” quipped the Briton as he described the s

of South Africa.

The “irresistable force” there
is black nationalism: the “1m-
movable object.” the African-
ner's militant white supremacy.

Stewart King. Great Issues
speaker. was no longer speaking
from prepared notes on the poli-
tical and cconomi¢ theories of
apartheid: he was expounding.
from his own observations the
facts of Hfe in South Africa.
King, a native of Sunderland.
England, was reporting for the
Johannesburg Star in 1960 and
covered the anti-government
riots in Sharpevelle in March of
that year.

When King was in Africa in
1951. the mode of protest to
white superiority was passive
Tesistance. By 1960. howevcr,
the frustration of a suppressed
people had erupted in the atro-
cities of the Sharpeville riots in
which people killed unarmed
Bantu natives in the streets;
the natives gained vengeance by
burning to death a Catholic nun.

At present there are but
two choices for the future of
South Africe, according to
King: Either the Bantus and
eoloreds will rise in force
against the white population—
which is outnumbered 10 to
three—or the official policy
of apartheid, complete segre-
gation, will remain indefin-

J. G. Martin

(Continued From Page Two)
merely the median value for the
twelve colleges surveyed; be-
sides which not enough is known.
about the particular. traditions ;
which were rejected.

Surely, if there's enough in-
terest in clarifying such ques-
tions, 4 more complete study
relevani’ to Davidson's particu: |
lar situation could be pursued.

BY 80B ADAMS

itely. The British reporter dis-

cards the former possibility.

The problem. as King sees it.
is basically one of education.
“The Bantus need a framework
of government among them-
selves to prepare for the task of
administering a country. To per-
fect administrative ability. they.
need education. The South Afri-
can government deliberately
suppresses education of Bantus.”

The reporter believes that. the
white government will maintain
the status quo—complete sep-
aration—at all costs. At the
same time, the Dutch-descended
Africanners have recently given
the Bantus abundant economic
help: The best hospitals and
high-rise apartments in South
Africa are rapidly becoming
“Bantu only.” ;

There is abundant aid in
other than economic goods
from other than African
sources. “Time and again I’ve
seen them go in. . ” as
serted King, nervously crimp-
ing his cigarette filter.
“Who?” we asked.

o-¢

s the case of the irresistable force meeting an immovable ob-
ocio-political condition in the Union

“The communists,” he replied.
“There's fierce competition be-
not
only to sell communism. but to
sell a particular slant of ideo-
logy. I've seen Russian agricul-

tween Russia and China,

tural assistance groups arrive
in a village on¢ morning, and a
Chinese delegation arrive that
afternoon. The factions never so
much as spoke to each other.”
King says the two brands of
communism compete for men’s
minds almost as vehemently as
the black nationalist leaders.

The reporter admonished us
not to attempt comparing South
Africa's racial problem with
that in the United States for
several reasons. For one, the
U.S, has few major cities whose
population approaches a black
majority. In South Africa, the
white man is outnumbered

many times over. “Equal fran-
chise would ruin the
man,” says King.

white

The Briton, who writes for the

Charleston News and Courier,| rangements. It has been said of
says he has no plans whatsoever! Montoya that he and his music
for returning to Africa.

Peace W

(Continued From Page One)
tion against us, but we will
practice civil disobedience..

“If they stop us in Miami,,
then members of our walk not
jailed will go to Mexico City
and fly to Havana from there. |

Little said that if any of the
walkers were arrested in Miami, {
there would be an interesting:
court fight. “There.is no Jaw’
that. states a citizen cannot go
to Cuba, only a State Depart-
ment ruling, It might prove very
embarrassing to Uncle Sam to

alkers

confess his mind is haunted by to Cuba.
the ghost of the unknown. “It's
the first time I’ve ever been out
of New England,” he said. ‘I
guess you can say I’m the con-
servative of the group; I am not
now planning to go all the way

Simpson

(Continued From Page Two)

‘ MaeCormac. Wheaton. J. Martin| entire’ gentle being to his cause.
‘and Secor) to a forum in the|For three years he has been

_Morrison Room and discussing

Le ne

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for
students after vespers this Sunday night:

Brown, E. E. Griffin MacCormac Richey Welsh
Currie Kelton Martin, J. G. Scott White, L.
Daggy Labban Moore, Robert Swicord Williams
Driesell Lilly Patterson, W. B. Tilley Wilson
Gable Lloyd Polley Tucker Young

Carlos Montoya First
‘In 63 Artist Series

Carlos Moutoya, Flamenco guitarist, will open the
1963-64 Davidson College Artist Series with a concert at
8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium next Friday, Oct. 25,

| >efore Homecoming weekend.

_ Born in Madrid the son of not perform it, he lives it.

; Spanish gypsies, Montoya began The concert, sponsored by the
playing the guitar at the age of Artist Series committee, will be-
eight. Early in his career he won gin at 8 p.m. Tickets are on
recognition while accompanying sale to the general public for
such dancers as La Argentina, $2.00. No admission will be
Vineente Escudera and Argen- charged Davidson students.
tinita, The remainder of the Artist
Series calendar, announced by
Dr. Donald B. Plott, chairman.

will include Celeste Holm, the

His concerts have been heard
around the globe, and his re-
cordings on RCA Victor have
had great success, according to
reports. His techniques are
characterized by a flair for in-
centive innovation in his ar- |

i

‘are inseparable—that he does

“| was ferrorstricken over
the thought of coming south,
but t am feeling easier every
day,” Meister said. “But 1! |
can’t forget that postman who |
was shot in Alabama in his
lone march.”

MONTOYA
, actress from “With Love and| Honor Court position, that can-
|. Laughter” who will be at David-| didates- would have to enter
Meister is more than a heroic| son on Nov. 20. On March 4 the! their names on lists at the Union

;man. And he is that. He knows! Gregg Smith Singers will pre-
his fear, and he conquers it with| sent the concert program. This
every step. He also gives his

April 28.
lworking for CNVA for room,

Particular attention could be! try us when we have broken no

man class. in their first expos-| wilt be the first time in our
ure to studying the Bible (gen- country's history such a thing
erally speaking), with the has happened.”
seniors whose doubts have had But for all their ideals and
“ime to digest a year or so be- assurance, there is a ghost
fore taking additional religion, stalking each marcher. All have|
courses. Recent and dlder alum-, fear-ridden minds. “Frankly, I’m

4 F a ; i j h board and a dollar a week.
given fo contrasting the fresh-' law. If they get a conviction, it, been raised the past ten days. .

ni could also be polled.

If this would constitute an in-,
vasion of privacy the results |
could be withheld from publi-
cation by the administration and
religion department and YMCA,
all of whom have a perhaps
more legitimate ‘interest than’
the rest of us in the conse-
quences of Davidson’s religious
practices and instruction.

In any case the question-
naire is available on reserve
in the library, and the YMCA |
or the Knovel Knook could
perhaps be persuaded to pur- |
chase copies for anyone inter-
ested in examining his own re-
ligious and political beliefs
in @ “percentile” way.

; James G. Martin
*THE DAVIDSONIAN, Oct. 11,
1963, p. 2.

‘seared to death,”
Davidov. And he was not an-'
swering any question.

‘confessed |

“Fear is one thing 1 must
fight constantly, and it’s get-
ting worse every day as !
move south. We do not know -
what we will cun into down’
here. None of us knows but
what some of us may never
get home,” Davidov revealed,
but ( must admit we have re-
ceived as warm a welcome in
the South as we did in the
North.” :

The group has one Negro and
earries pro-integration signs as
well as peace signs in its move
toward Miami. They have been
shot at several times with air
rifles, both in the North and
South.

Meister is another who will

The walkers are a or with|

Although college men can
be just as creative on the foot-
ball field as the discussion
floor, a period of tremendous

every step they struggle with
the hostility of others and a
|phantom in themselves. It is
'called fear.

| Bjoerling.

\ lockers: (2) no one is to take a

|| firmed at the next meeting.

year’s calendar wilt end with! reforms would naturally require |
the Juilliard String Quartet on” more interest on the part of the

Last year the Artist Series| lessen the number of candidates
presented a program of music,] and would cut the total election
dance and theater which includ-| time from 342 to 1'4 weeks with
group. They have to be, for with| ed organist Flor Peeters, Span-| the néwly devised
ish dancer.Teresa y su Compania| Most of these changes were fav-
Espanola, the Cleveland Players,| orably acknowledged and a for-
}Komitas Quartet and tenor Rolf| mal discussion and acceptance

Majority Disapproves
Return On Labor Day

An “overwhelming majority” of the student body voted against corning back on
Labor Day in a poll taken last Monday after assembly conducted by the Student
Council. The poll showed all but the freshmen seemed to be in favor of a reading
period before exams, the council pointed out in its weekly meeting last Monday night.

Note was made at the meeting date. to wear their beanies and name-
of the election of the new Fresh- All candidates for Freshman a8s.
man Handbook editor. Roger Advisor are advised that elec- Spratt remarked that he was
David won over Ed Stopher 199- tion to this position automati- lad at the apparent influence
192 in a close election. cally makes that individual a borne out by the Student Coun-
_ John Barrow, keeper of the Sgudent Council member un- cil in the scheduling of a tenta-
gun room, disclosed some mis- fess he specifically declines tive reading day by the Faculty
understandings among the stud- when he becomes a candidate, Committee for Academie Sched-
ent body concerning the gun uling. It was hoped that this
room and its use. He suggested A call was made for a joint would become a reading period.
some regulations which would meeting with the Honor Court
make for stricter control. A- to discuss and interpret terms:
mong these would be: (1) all in the Student Constitution. In
boys are required to purchase the past the Honor Court has

padlocks for the individual assumed the power to interpret
terms, and jt was revealed that

the Honor Court has not been
sanctioned the authority to
judge on matters of this nature.

Tastee
Freez

Just down the road

gun out without the permission
of the owner, (3) everyone with
a key is responsible for keeping

the gun room locked. The Student Council does, how- .

These proposals were only ever, have the right to interpret Cornelius
suggestions, as there was some terms as they wish. PIZZA
discussion of a list of regula- _ Tommy Stafford announced SANDWICHES.
tions in the past which may have that events had been outlined ICE CREAM
covered these points. A check for Freshman Parents Day and HOURS:

then went on to discuss the
freshman-sophomore basketball
game next Wednesday night and
freshman-sophomore Field Day
on Thursday afternoon. The two
events may determine whether
or not freshmen must continue

The Hub

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Tilt 9:00 P.M.

’0n Compue Mit Gdn |

(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys?’ an

was to be made on this and a
decision on regulations con- Tues. - Thurs. 10:30-6:00.
Fri. - Sat. 10:30-10:00
Sun, 2-9

In defending the Nationel
Closed Monday

Student Association from its
various attacks, President
John Spratt said the Student
Council would show by deeds
rather than words that NSA
was a worthwhile program.
Will Jackson announced some
new proposals in the nomination
and election system at Davidson.
Among the various improve-
ments, Jackson listed a common
ballot, a requirement that no
one could run for a student gov-
ernment office as well as an

Desk rather than be nominated.
Jackson remarked that these

eandidates for office, would

schedule,

of them will come at a later

potential in that latter srea

may be opening up on our —— ~ ee _

campus: the “Y's” “Emerging a “¢ a. mm;
fee \

Africae” is just now doing so;
the “Changing South” and the
“Challenges to the Christian
Faith” are coming; this and
other food for thought will be
served in quantity.

Is the non-violent movement
of any consequence? Should the
US. have a travel ban on Cuba?
Where do we stand on the racial
issue? What are our responsibi-
lities toward the emerging na-
tions of Africa? These are some
of the questions that have al-
ready been asked. If a panel]
from the faculty would agree
to a forum on these topics much
could be accomplished toward
helping those who have been
prodded to find some kind of

answers.
Paul Simpson }

‘Department Of Religion|
One Of The Strongest’ |

“Davidson’s department of religion is one of the strongest departments in the

MARTIN SAYS

BY PAUL SIMPSON

|

college. It seeks to stimulate students in the development of a more mature Chris-
tian faith.” said Davidson College President D. Grier Martin in response to questions
concerning the Oct. 8 issue of the National Review.

“In the process of teaching.
questions are discussed which
will undoubtedly change some
of the ‘religious tradition and
influence’ of their childhood,”
Martin said. “The college, be-
lieves that it is proper that such
questions be discussed in an
environment where Christian
scholars can assist students in
their search for understanding
and faith.”

Although reluctant to take
issue with the magazine (which
reported on a survey of 70 Dav-
idson students, finding that 56
per cent reacted partially or
wholly against their religious
tradition while in college and
that 78 per cent of those, or 18
in all, reported that required

religious courses and chapel =——

services were responsible for
the change), President Martin
nevertheless felt. that certain
points should be brought out.
First, Davidson is one of
only two church colleges in-
cluded in the NR‘s survey, and
is probably the only one re-
quiring every student to take
two full years of Bible and
religion and, in addition, re-
quiring all students to attend
two religious services a week
during their four years at

Davidson.

“Such requirements of col-
lege-age students naturally cause
resentment and reaction on the
part of many students. thereby
affecting their present attitudes
toward religion.”

Second. the president empha-
sized that Dayidson’s alumni
record is the best indicator of
the success of its Christian edu-
cational philosophy.

Ax indegendent survey has
shown that one-half of the
Presbyterian ministers in
North Carolina and one-fourth
of those in the Presbyterian
Church, U.S., to be Davidson
graduates.

A recent national foundation

survey placed Davidson 25th in

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

the percentage of its graduates
studying in seminaries and indi-
cated that seminaries were en-
thusiastic about the preparation
of the students in Bible and re-
ligion.

Finally a survey made last
year of the Davidson class of
1937 is most revealing: only two
members of the class out of 110
reporting are not. church mem-
bers; 64 out of 110 have served
as church officers; they voted
80 to 23 in favor of compulsory
religious services. And it is in-
teresting that the Davidson at-
mosphere, professors, Bible
courses and chapel services were
g:ven approximately equal credit
for shaping religious outlook,
Martin pointed out.

THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNAT! 14, OHIO

ADLE.

!
THE CLEAN WHITE SOCK

He not only wears the clean white sock; he je “clean white sock.’ It’s a kind of confi-
dence that comes from knowing the right thing to do; even if he decides not to do
it. His clean white socks are by Adier. His girl is by his side, every bit as “clean white
sock’ as he is. Naturally they don't always wear white socke, they just act like they do.
People who really swing are wearing the Adler SC shrink controlied wool sock. $1.00,

ADLER'S swinging SC’s available at

Charlotte, N. C.

Rush Wilson, Lin.

“Barefoot Boy With Cheet:."")

BOOM!

‘Today, foregoing levity, let us turn our keen young mind: to
the principal problem facing Americatr colleges today: the
ropulation explusion. Only last week fuur people exploded -in
Cleveland, Ohio—one of them while carrying a plate of soup.
In case you're thinking such a thing couldn't happen anywhere
but im Cleveland, let me tell you about two other cases list
weck—a 45-year-old man in Provo, Utah, and a 1f-year-old
girl in Northfield, Minnesota. And, in addition, thero. was a

near miss iu High Point, North Carolina—an cight-veur-old.

Loy who was saved only by the quick thinking of hix ent, Fred.who
puzhed the phone off the hook with his muzzle and dialed the
departinent of weights and measures. (Bt.would, perhaps, have
been more logical for Fred to dial the fire department, but one
can hardly expect -a cat to summon. a Gre engine which is fol-
lowed by a Dulmatian, ean one?)

Rut I digress. The population explosion, T say, ia upon us,
It is, of course, cnuse for concern but not for alarm, because [
feel sure that science will ultimately fiud an answer. After all,

has not science in recent years brought us such marvels as the
maser, the bevatron, and the Marlboro filter? Oh, what a saga
of science was the discovery of the Marlboro filter! Oh, what a
heart-rending epic of trial and error, of dedication and perse-
verance! And, in the end, what a triumph it was when the
Marlboro research team, after years of testing and discarding
one filter material after another—iron, nickel, tin, antimony,
obsidian, poundeake—finally emerged, tired but happy, from
their laboratory, carrying in their hands the perfect filter
cigarette! Indeed, what rejoicing there still is whenever we
light up a Marlboro which comes to us in soft pack and Flip-
Top Box in all fifty states and Cleveland!

Yes, science will ultimately solve the problems arising from
the population explosion, but meanwhile America’s colleges
are in dire straits. Where can we find classrooms and teachers
for today’s gigantic influx of students?

Well sir, some say the solution is to adopt the trimester sys-
tem. This system, already in tise at many colleges, eliminates
suminer vacations, has three semesters per annum. instead of
two, and compresses a four-year-course into three years.

This is, of course, good, but is it good enough? Even under
the trimester system the student has ocensional days off. More-
over, his nights are utterly wasted in sleeping. Is this the kind
of all-out attack that is indicated?

I say no. I say desperate situations call for desperate reme-
dies. I say that partial measures will not solve this crisis. I
say we must do no less than go to school every single day of
the year. But that is not all. I say we must so to school 24
hours of every day!

The benefits of such a program are, as you can see, obvious.
First of all, the classroom shortage will disappear because all
the dormitories can be converted into classrooms. Second, the
teacher shortage will disappear because all the night watchmen
can be put to work teacliing solid state physics and Restoration
drama. And finally, overcrowding will disappear because every+
body will quit. school.

Any further questions? © 1903 Moz Shutmas

*

Yes, one further question: the makers of Marlboro, who
sponsor this column, would like to know whether you have
tried a Marlboro lately. It’s the Alter cigarette with a man’s
tcorld of flavor. Settle back and enjoy one soon,

