a

|
{

" little prov

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1963

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

HIGHLIGHTS
* SIDELIGHTS

TOURNEY SHOULD BE AT COLISEUM

Don’t look now, but there may be a chance to have
the Southern Conference basketball tournament to the
Coliseum in Charlotte next year. Prospects aren't exactly
rosy yet, but there are rumblings of discontent over the
present setup at Richmond, which has a couple of ser-
ious drawbacks.

The Southern Conference athletic commission has
recently indicated that it will consider any new site
which are proposed, and Davidson Athletic Director Tom
Scott is suggesting Charlotte as the most logical place.

Last year sports editor Steve Clark put out a column
suggesting that the conference tourney be moved to
Charlotte. This was at a time when prospects for such |
a move were dim, but Steve had seen the disadvantage of |
having the tourney at Richmond and wanted to get some
action going to change it.

We are in complete agreement with Steve and Dr.
Scott in proposing that the tourney be held in Charlotte. |
There will continue to be discontent and dissatisfaction
over where: it is to be held until they move it to the;
Coliseum, which we believe that they will eventually have
to do.

We say that the tourney will eventually be forced
to move to Charlotte because it is the only place in the
conference area that adequately satisfies all of the re-
adequate arena, ample accommodations, and a centraliz-
adequate arena, ample accomodations, and a centraliz-
ed location. On top of this Charlotte is an area where the
biggest crowds can be drawn. If the tournament was held
in Charlotte we would venture to say that it would be|
played to capacity or near capacity crowds every night.

Let’s move the tournament to the place best suited
for it—Charlotte.

KEEP THE POOL OPEN

A few weeks ago we ran a column in which we pro-
tested the present situation as to the limited amount of
time that the basketball courts were available to students.
We also mentioned that this inability to use the facilities
available applied to other parts of the gym also.

Several students have protested to us this week |
about the difficulty of using the swimming pool, since
ision is made for student use during the swim-
This again raises the question of whether
ilt for the student body use or exclusively
for the swimming team. Time can be found for both to!
use the facilities and we wish the athletic department |
would recognize this.

We also understand that the pool was closed during
the whole exam period. What’s the use of building an ex-
pensive pool if it is not to be made useful?

CONFERENCE TOURNEY TICKETS

Tickets to the Southern Conference Tournament in
Richmond from Feb. 28 to March 2 are on sale in the
Athletic office now. The price is ten dollars for the three
night series.

Mermen Visit Ga
For Three Meets

BY CHARLIE SHAPARD
Sports Staff Writer

Following a 55-36 loss to a strong Citadel Swimming

Team on Monday, the Davidson mermen are now plan-
ning for a three-day trip to Georgia on Feb. 11, 12 and 13.

ming season.
the pool was bu

State was the toughest team
remaining on the ‘Cats’ schedule,
and if they emerged victorious
they have an excellent chance
to finish with a 7-1-1 record.
The ‘Cats took a 41-1 record
into the State meet, and they
have two matches remaining.
They face Pfeiffer College on
Feb. 21, and the University of

cisioned Ben Branch; 130 lb. —
Mike Bisard (D) pinned Jim
Reeves (4:45); 137 lb. — Dick
Wray (D) decisioned Goldman;
147 lb. — Edwards (E) decision-
ed Ben McCoy; 157 lb. — Joe
Jones (D) pinned Herwick (1:53);
167 Ib. — Bill Pridgen (D) pin-
ned Mange (2:05); 177 Ib.
Tom Day (D) decisioned Wake-

GETTING IN HIS WEEKLY EXERCISE is MIKE BISARD,

DAVIDSON 130 pounder, busily pinning JIM REEVES from

ed, and until their injuries were

Ga. on Feb. 23.

Commenting on the State Walls (D) pinned Kemp (4:47).

lyn; Heavyweight — Russell Emory in Saturday's match. Davidson won 29-3. (Staff Photo by

Buck Lawrimore.)

match, Coach Charlie Parker
said that the loss of two of the
team’s star wrestlers, Billy Mills
(167 Ibs.) and Joe Parker (147
lbs.), due to injuries, will hurt
the team considerably Both
Mills and Parker were undefeat-

both moving towards conference
championships.

In a match last Saturday the
‘Cats easily picked up _ their
fourth win of the season by |
trouncing Emory University 29-
3. The only loss suffered by the}
’Cat grapplers was in the 147

Ib. class.
Results of the match were as
follows: That night no one on the
123 lb. — Tom Wright (D) Pa University squad
SSeS RR aE ETO ~~ | could stop Fred Hetzel. The
Indoor Track Set 68” 220 Ib. sophomore from

: Washington, D. C. poured in a
For Big Five Meet record 17 field goals, and added
12 out of 15 free throws to set

BY DENNY PHILLIPS a new scoring record for Dav-
Sports Staff Writer idson basketball teams of 46

The Davidson College indoor | points, helping his team roll to

track team will journey over to|an easy 112-93 victory.

Chapel Hill Feb. 16 to partici :

pate in the fourth annual Big | Not that this by itself would-
Five indoor track meet. The Big|?'t qualify a player for Wild-
Five is composed of Davidson,| cat of the: Week, Hetzel de-
Duke, N.C. State, U.N.C. and] serves it for far more. He now
Wake Forest. Both varsity and/
freshmen will compete.

Running and jumping for the
’Cats will be Paul Montgomery! £9al percentage (54.2%) and is
in the pole vault; Bob Cordle in| in the top ten in rebounds per
a ~_ ig: Pee sage in| game (12:8) and foul shooting

e shot put; Alan Turner, Tom, ....., . ss
Watson, and Cordle in the oe" — — Se. nego:

lis this week’s Wildcat of the

yard dash; Turner in the 70-|7°

yard low hurdles; Watson in the | Week.

440-yard dash; Keith Fraser mt But Hetzel isn’t doing the job
the high jump; John meer. alone. On the court with him
Tom Heffner, Denny Phillips, | against Jacksonville were the
and Tim Spiro in the mile run; |two players who together with

Ronnie Reese and Phillips iN | former ‘Cat great Hobby Cobb
the 880-yd. run; Chester Davis | held the previous scoring rec-

leads the Southern Conference

in scoring (23.7 ppg.), and field

mile run; and Cordle, Reese, | land. Both tied the record of 39

lap relay. : Washington and Holland against

The varsity already has One | Mississippi College. Together
meet under its treet shorts aS | this year they are averaging
they ran in the VMI Winter Re- | 97.9 points a game ‘and pulling
lays last weekend in Lexington, | gown an average of 164 re-
Virginia. Although not in tOP | hounds a game, but during the
shape this early in the $€asON, | Jaoksonville game both players
the sprint-shuttle relay, compos- willingly fed Hetzel because he
ed of Cordle, ‘Tumer, Watson, | was hitting well, even though
and Tommy Worrall managed to he was breaking their record.
come away with the  second-|

and Sterling Martin in the 2-| 4.4 pin Jarman and Terry Hol- |

Turner, and Watson in the 8) last year, Jarman against George ©

Scoring Record Falls
When Hetzel Puts In 46

BY FORREST ROLES
Sports Staff Writer

temptation to speculate what
honors await him in his years at
Davidson. He can hardly miss
All-Conference this year, but
what about All-American?
Coach Lefty Driesell says, “He
has an awful good chance at
All-American in the next two

years. If he keeps improving as
he has, he’s going to be a great

Matmen, Basketballers Seek Best Season

State Match Crucial
ToRecord 7-1-1 Season

BY TOM WRIGHT
Sports Steff Writer

Davidson's grapplers met North Carolina State this
afternoon in a match which will probably determine
whether they finish with the best wrestling season in
Davidson's history. The match was held in Raleigh.

Basketball Team Seeks
Second Win Over ¥MI

BY RICK SMITH
Sports Staff Writer

Tonight the Davidson Wildcats seek to improve their
5-3 conference record when they meet the Keydets of

| Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. The

Keydets lost a thriller to Davidson, 62-64, here in John-
ston Gym earlier this season.

It’s difficult to compare the It is interesting to note that
teams on the basis of their rec- this year’s edition of the David-
ords. The Keydets have wins son basketball team has already
over The Citadel 106-71 and broken several records and, at
Richmond 79-77. VMI has lost its present rate, seems destined
to West Virginia 74-86, VPI 70- to shatter a few more.

74, and Willigm and Mary 71-80.
The new :

The Wildcats, although pres- ¢,, prey eenante ane: —
ently tied with VPI for second 2 ee a

yt New Hampshire (th
place in the Southern Confer- i oe te
Pe ve _~.. ‘Was 44 against Guilford in 1956);
ence, have had a hard time win- 514+ team points—116 against

Bing : agains conference foes. New Hampshire (the old record
Four of Davidson's five confer- ... 419 aginst BMissiesino!
ence victories have been by ;,_ ee sastenipp! Col-

lege last season); most individ-

“I just can’t stop him,” said a frustrated Roger Strickland as he ran by his bench
early in a game that the Little All-American’s team was losing badly. That he just
couldn’t stop Fred Hetzel was a fact noticed by a New York Knickerbocker scout who
was at Davidson to scout him and ’Cat forward Bill Jarman.

ball player.”
It's a good thing the National
Basketball League has a rule

prohibiting the drafting of col-
lege players until the year
which they graduate. That

Knickerbocker scout walked a-
way from Johnston Gymnasium
with another name besides Bill
Jarman and Roger Strickland.

i} tor added

three points or less.
pe I ual field goals—Hetzel’s’ 17

Coach C. G. (Lefty) Driesell against Jacksonville University

remarked, “These close ones (the previous high was Cobb's
have really generated the pres- 15 against VMI in. 1956): most
sure for us this season, and you jndividual points—Hetzel’s 46
might say we've been lucky to against Jacksonville (the old
win our share of them, though

record of 39 was held jointly
at tines I've thought, and I }. ¢ )

y Cobb, Holland, and Jarman).
think the team has felt, that we /

have not played our best ball
when we've been against con
ference competition.”

Another discomforting thought
for Wildeat fans is the fact that

There are more records which
apparently will be broken. The
present season record field goal
percentage 43.7% held by
last season's team. That team
oii thas aneaneues ldeecs have also set the season record free
been on the road Tonight's throw perecntage of oe
game will be tough and an all This eaciteuess is hitting 47.4%
of their field goal attempts and

1s

important contest in the confer- :
P 73.9% of their free throws
ence race. ie
Last Monday the Davidson _ The best individual — season
field goal percentage is Jar-

quintet squeaked out its closest :
win of the year over a pressing, man’s 51.5% last year Hetzel is
deliberate Citadel team, 5049. ring on 54.2% of his shots

“We got only four points from From the floor this year. The
our guards,” said Driesell: “It most individual points scored
amounted’ to ‘giving them per- in a season were Cobb's 540 in
to collapse their de: 1955-56. Hetzel must average

mission ;
our men under. the only 18 points per game for the

fense on

basket.” remainder of the season to
“Our ball club is coming a- break this record

long nicely, but we need better If the Wildeats. can. survive

scoring and defense from our the rest of the season without a

guards. That's been our prob- loss, they will tie the 186

lem all year. We haven't found record of the 1948-49 team. That

is the winningest Davidson re-
cord in the last two decades
The biggest question remaining
before the ’Cats, however, is

a consistently sound backcourt
combination,” the Wildeat men-

Driesell will probably. start

|} Marcon and either Davidson or a hot Wake Forest squad, whom

Beerman in the backcourt to- the ’Cats will meet in the Coli-

save!
FRED HETZEL makes scoring look easy here as he goes up|

The ’Catfish will meet the
University of Georgia, Georgia
Tech, and Emory in three non-
conference meets while on this
trip. The Davidson Swimmers
will return to the local pool to
meet William and Mary in its
second conference meet on Feb.
21.

“Depth,” stated Dwight Shoe,
Davidson's youthful mentor,
“Again proved to be our main
weakness. However, I feel that
not having a meet in seven
weeks hurt the boys to Some ex-
tent. The boys have really been
putting out in every event of
every mect. By the Southern
Conference Meet in March, the
team should be in good shape.”

The Davidson Mermen are led

by Senior Captain Carter Me- 200 Breast: (2) Fry (3) Truscott

Jackson

“MID -WINTERS”

We also launder shirts.
Let us clean your weekend clothes.

bane, who took firsts in the 50

and 100 yard freestyle events;

Mebane should make quite

showing at the Conference meet.

Davidson's only other first was

captured by Sophomore Jim

Grey in the 500 yard freestyle.

Davidson Resuits:

200 Free: (2) Grey (4) Grant

50 Free: (1) Mebane (4) Camp-
bell

200 Ind. Medley: (2) Hughes (3)
Purkerson

Diving: (2) Jacobs

200 Fly: (2) McKeithen

100 Free: (1) Mebane (3) Camp-
bell

200 Back:
Downey

500 Free: (1) Grey (2) Grant

(3) Alexander (4)

Cleaners

1318 W. Morehead

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

place medals.

| With Hetzel’s record it is a

The intramural basketball
league began action Monday as
six games were played. Only the
Kappa Sigs, the league's defend-
ing champions, did not see ac-
tion Monday.

In Monday afternoon action,
the Sigma Chis downed the Sig
Eps, 42-20. Sophomore Tom

ae

with 13 points.

fast break to full advantage, and
rolled by the Sigma Nus, 63-31.
Benny Coxton hit 12 and Mark

Sigma Nu sophomore Arthur
Clark led all seorers with 16.

ped the Pi Kapps, 38-29, be-
hind the 12-point performance
of Keith Fraser.

Phil Squier pumped in 24
points and received ample sup-
port from Bill Bankhead’s 13

ATO’'s, 52-39. George King hit
17 and Paul Duvall 11 for the
Taus.

The Phi Gams showed impres-
sive strength under the boards
as they knocked off the SAE’s,
55-25. Freshmen Pack Hindsley
and Johnny Little scored 14
each for the Gams, while Billy
Jo Morgan led the SAE’s with
14.

Charlotte, N. C. 1}

Charlie Marshall hit a layup
with 3 seconds remaining to cul-

James paced the victors’ attack

The Independents used the

Dunn 11 to lead the winners. |)

Monday night the Pikas clip-|)

as the Phi Delts whipped the|’

|-F Basketball
Action Begins

minate a fourth quarter KA
rally as they nipped the Betas,
43-41. Rick Smyre hit 19 and
Marshall had 18 to lead the
KA’s, while Tommy Hamilton's
13 and Steve Kash’s 12 paced
the Betas.

for another two pointer against Richmond. HETZEL earned
Wildcat of the Week honors for his 46 point performance against
Jacksonville University.

Paul | Montgomery's. Vault
Sets Sigma Delta Psi Mark

Paul Montgomery, a student from Newport News,
Va., was recently informed by the national office of
Sigma Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity, that he has)
been officially recognized as holder of the bar vault
record for members o:! that traternity.

Montgomery s vault of 7!
11%" broke the old SDP record
of 7° 84%” by over three inches. |
He set this mark last fall and |
has been waiting since then for
it to be nationally recognized. |

Track Coach Heath Whittle, |
who is on the board of directors
of SDP, was extremely pleased |
with Montgomery's record. He |
» explained that only one other
Davidson student has held a
national record in SDP. This was
Chris Bremer, who held the bar
vault record for five years in,
: the 1950's.

Whittle further explained that
to have their performance in
any of the SDP events to be con-
sidered for a record it is saees|
sary to be a fully accredited
member of a local SDP chapter.

Montgomery seems to be the
type who likes heights, because
he is also a pole vaulter on the
track team. Last weekend he
attended the VMI relays and
vaulted 12’. This mark was es-
pecially pleasing to Whittle
since this was the first indoor
meet of the season and Mont-
gomery hasn’t pole vaulted any
for two years.

night. seum on Feb. 20.
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
STANDINGS
i Conference All Games
| Ww s Pct. W L Pet.
|} W. Virginia 8 1 889 14 5 737
|} Va. Tech 5 3 625 9 7 737
i] Davidson 5 3 625 13 6 667
‘| Wm. & Mary 6 5 545 10 7 588
it G. Wash. 3 3 500 5 10 .333
'} Furman a a Sa 421
Va. Mil. 4 6 400 4 9 .308
The Citadel 2 5 .286 2 .125
Richmond 3 8 273 6 333

waeneeeefOX trot
twist...waltz
lindy...samba
mambo...cha-

cha-cha..bend

dip..hop..step
turn...0ump...
whew...

take a break
.«things go better
with Coke

Bottled under the authority of
The Coca-Cola Company by:

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina
