FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1964

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

BY RICK LOWERY

WITH ALL DUE RESPECT...

The idea of a home court advantage is one that is
never questioned. The only point of controversy is just
how big an advantage the home team has. In the South-
eastern Conference, the season has been dotted with a
succession of upsets of the front runners. Notably, all of
these upsets occurred away from home. i

same rather unsurprising results have held true
in the Missouri Valley Conference where seemingly no
one is safe away from home. .

Saturday night Duke defeated Davidson in Durham
by seven points. There is no way of estimating how big an
— Duke enjoys at home, but an advantage they

ave.

This well known truism, along with the bitterness

of a tough defeat, prompted Coach Driesell to fire a
verbal blast at Coach Vic Bubas and the Duke athletic

staff. Since that time, Driesell has publicly apologized —

for the use of the word “yellow” in his statement.

To those people for whom the word “yellow’’ is of-
fensive, I thank Coach Driesell for his apology. But I,
really don’t think this is the key issue of the controversy..
The Charlotte Observer inferred in an editorial that
Coach Driesell was guilty of unsportsman-like conduct. — |
Since when ‘has the anger and disappointment of a!
defeat been unsportsman-like? In every public comment!
issued by Driesell there were no excuses for the loss,|
nothing but praise for the Duke team, and no cry of |
robbery. Instead, Driesell expressed his anger at not!
having an opportunity to play Duke away from home.
The home court we know to be an advantage. Why should
a man be asked repeatedly to take his team into a posi-
tion in which they are at a disadvantage?

Speaking for myself. I was glad Coach Driesell said|
what he did. I told him so. I’m glad to see someone stand!

Side Lights|

’Cats Swamp Pirates
After Loss In Durham

BY JOHNNY CLARK
Davidson's eighth-ranked Wildcats, rebounding from two straight losses on the road, crushed the outclassed
Pirates of East Carolina Tuesday night, rolling up the ‘Cats’ largest victory margin of the year in a 105-45 romp

THIS PICTURE TELLS THE TALE. Jack Marin goes high
in the air to grab another rebound. With Duke behind Marin, Buck
ley and Mullins outscored and ou! rebounded the ‘Cats in Satur-
day’s game. (Photo by McCutchen)

Wrestlers Cop Second Win
Overwhelm Pembroke 29-3

Last Friday, February 14, the Wildcat Wrestlers

overwhelmed an outclassed Pembroke squad and easily |

up and fight for those things he thinks just for his team|

and himself. In athletics . . . No, in anything, a leader; came after the

picked up their second win of the year. The 29-3 victory
‘Cats had dropped six of their first seven

must defend those whom he leads and to act in their, meets in a season that could still be respectable.

defense as Coach Driesell did is nothing for which one:
should be ashamed.
(130), Billy Mills (167) and Eric

Perhaps, Driesell’s vocabulary was not up to snuff! .;.. 0). ¢y77 sas heehee
but to issue a challenge as he did Saturday night is not! agg Raggy cl een
unsportsman-like—in fact, the idea of challenge and, ,, ~ %
competition underlies the whole idea of sports in general
from swimming to fencing, from track to football, and
from bridge to basketball.

Is this not so?

THE LONG HAPPY REIGN ...

Four years ago Davidson's rise toward’ basketball
fame began. It did not happen over night. A lot of hard
work by coaches, players, and student assistants was in-,
volved. But four years ago, it began with a freshman team |
featuring Terry Holland and Bill Beermann.

Alan Webb (123), Mike Bizard

‘dropped his match. Russ Walls
(heavy), Hugh Allen (137), and
, Sam. Glasgow (147) completed
the sweep with decisions

In commenting on the seven
| of eight rampage, Coach Park-
| er noted, “‘It was a good one
to win, although Pembroke
can hardly be considered
wrestling power. Their record?
As far as | know, it’s zero and
the number of meets they
scheduled. This is only their
second year to field a wrest-
ling team.”

a

The following year, Bill Jarman, Haywood Evans, D.

Parker went on to praise his
whole squad for ‘their steady
improvement." Although injured
at the beginning of the season,

Eric Nichols has come on
strongly to secure a tie and a
pin in his last two outings. Russ
Walls has now won his last five

matches

| and boosting their record to 20 wins against 3 losses.

| Journeying to Charleston, S.-C

| for the Southern Conference

E.C.T.C. soon wished that it

by reserve Bill Beermann’'s 15

produced too little too late

land followed Hetzel with 18

Mullins

ere on the

Holland

ability

both

fouled

out,

ltomorrow night to meet The Was. They did return to the Only Fred Hetzel seemed and Snyder finished with 4 fouls
‘Citadel Bulldogs in their last 94™e, however, and became immune to the pressuring and Hetzel with 3. The Wildeats
regular game of the year. the Davidson's 21st consecutive Devil defense, led by Denny hit only 9 of 17 free throws, and
| Wildcats need a victory to clinch Johnston Gym victim, as they Ferguson and Buzzy Harrison, thus the 16 of 22 penalty shots
the number one seeding in the finished on the short end of the that forced 15 Davidson ball by Duke proved to be the scoring
| eonference tournament in Char. ‘"ebounding, 59-30, field goal losses. The 6-8 All-American, «i fference

|lotte next week and their first @¢curacy, 52.8%-25%, and the often double teamed by Duke's b

A regular season conference Score. 6-10 giraffes, Buckley and ronssagee’ oman oe bones.
championship in basketball The Davidson scoring put six Hack Tison, hit 13 of 22 field ” ting off 16 rebounds, and he

"| Davidson drilled the South Caro. ™en in double figures, with Het goals and finished with 28 scored. 17 — for the best

7 lina soldiers, strong contenders zel’s game high total supported points and 10 rebounds. Hol- performance of his career.

to hit from any

court brought him

| basement, 88-67 last month in Points, Don Davidson's 14, Barry points, and Snyder managed
| Johnston Gym Teague’s 12, Dick Snyder's 12, 16 points and 8 rebounds. game high total of 29
‘ Terry { P T utchooting os “On " } :

Led by center Fred Hetzel's 27 co a pid ee Brnatingeoo’ ae 50 4 edt rie i ee ; enabling him to edge
points, Coach Lefty Driesell's {2; as Heteel collared. 10; and lost the aame ihroush ball hand Hetzel in their personal duel and
cagers seemed almost over-an- gyider and Hollaid grabbed 8 ling mistakes. fouls. and lack of li the crowd of 8,800 in Duke
xious to redeem themselves gieh rebounds, losing the battle on Indoor Stadium, of which 8,600
against East Carolina for Satur Saturday night wa inother the boards 45:35. Don Davidson were Duke partisans
day night's 82-75 loss in Durham gory Driesell irges jumped :
to the fourth ranked Duke Blue. 4 ay early 5-0 lead, increased it
Devils, committing several ball ;, 39.99 with 6:25 left in the half, CUMULATIVE BASKETBALL
handling errors as a result Of but from then on it was down STATISTICS
their eagerness. The mistakes ji1) for the Wildcats as Duke's —
made little difference in the All-American hopeful Jeff Mul Player Pct. Pct. RB Avg. Pts. Avg
outcome of the game, however. jin. and underrated 6:10 center Pret Heteei 55.9 - 3 305 13.3. 606 26.3 r
as the Wildcats raced to a 12.0 Jay Buckley led a Devil come Dick ‘Seyder 57.2 85.2 140 61 379 165
lead and quickly made evident pack that brought the fifth an declines rons “3 ped is 302 +84

| the fact that the Pirates had ranked Imps to a 42-40 intermis Terry Mellend 626 10.0 151 66 321 13.9
| little business on the same court sion advantage. The second half man cana es ‘as . oa “- a
ee was all Duke's as the Atlantic | Charlie Marcon 48.2 708 42 1.82 103 45

During a time out with two Coast champs grabbed a quick Bill Beermann 56.1 86.2 19 1.0 69 «3.74
minutes gone in the game, 48-43 lead and were never head Ronnie Stone 46.3 84.2 31 (1.72 68 «(3.67
Davidson fans chanted, “It's ed. Davidson trailed as much as Cam Harkness 12:5 42.7 9 56 5 33
all over,” and the boys from 15 points, and a last gasp rally Paul Briggs 40.7 58.3 % 1.37 29 1.52

‘ Stuart Burness 50.0 50.0 3 mm: 2 60

Team Rebounds 142. (6.2
Taus Grab Sole Lead Own Team Totals 54.9 74.1 1024 44.5 2064 89.7
Opponents Totals 42.7 71.4 778 33.8 1610 70.0

In a critical encounter

last Friday, the ATO’s narrowly edged the Kappa Sigs, |

In Squeaker With KS

BY DAVE POWELL

of IMAC basketball titans

45-45, in the waning moments of the game. Thus breaking
the tie for first place, the ATO’s remain undefeated, and
with most of their tougher opponents already defeated,
stands a good chance to take the title.

Paced by Mike Payne with 14

This afternoon, the ‘Cats are
in Athens, Ga., for a meet with
the University of Georgia. The
Bulldogs have beaten Georgia
Tech by . two. points; Tech, in
turn, has beaten Davidson by the |
same margin, “It should be a:

good, close match,” said Parker.
“They will be rough, but beat
able."’

G. Martin and two sophomores, Holland and Beermann, |
compiled the first Davidson winning season since 1949. |
Holland averaged 15.7 points a game and made All-
Southern Conference honorable mention. Beermann aver-
aged 9.2 points a game and won the foul shooting trophy.

Last Tuesday, Terry Holland was team. captain and
Bill Beermann, a substitute, but both had one thing in
common; this was their last home performance. Although|
there’s plenty of season left, there will be no more games
in Johnston gymnasium, and quite fittingly it was Beer-

Swimmers

To Pool-Minded VMI

“Our gang put on a good show but we just don’t

Fall 62-39

mann’s finest game of the year, as he hit 7-9 from the, have the manpower to stack up against a team like VMI.”

floor to score 15 points, second high in the game.

same time, unfittingly, Holland didn’t get the opportunity n
to bow out in diyies ' ' 4 | held in Lexington yesterday

So in lieu of something formal, a round of applause—| “We had our bright spots.
for four years of a long happy reign. (Jim) Stokes took first in the

! 200 fly with a record time of
ANOTHER WORD...

| 2:22.6."" Jim Grey managed a
school record in the 500 free with
To prevent anyone from getting the wrong idea from ie Mane a See ee wes
the above. I'd like to make it clear that Davidson was
beaten Saturday night. There is no excuse to be offered; |
Duke scored more points, got more rebounds and made
fewer mistakes. |

The press saw the game as the show place of two’
All-Americans, and that it was. Offensively, Fred Hetzel’
was never better; in fact, he was magnificient. But Jeff
Mullins stole the show. Mullins hit from outside; he
maneuvered underneath; he made several assists and;
snagged several rebounds. But his contribution to the
Blue Devil attack was best described by another team-
mate who said, “Everytime Jeff hits one, he gives us all aj
lift.’ Even from the stands this observation is evident;
and it is this, more than anything else, that makes Mullins
irreplaceable to Duke.

Mullins was not alone, however. Jay Buckley, the
senior half of Duke’s 6’10” center pair played what has
been described as the finest game of his career. Buckley,
who has been pictured long and loud as the “weak link” |
in the Duke five, made more than one believer Saturday
as he scored 16 points and pulled in 17 rebounds.

The other member of Duke’s wrecking crew was,
sophomore Jack Marin who pushed and leaped for a|
surprising 10 points.

If Duke was good, so were the ’Cats. They dropped
a seven point d n and the difference came at the
foul line and the backboard. Once again, it was quite
evident that in top flight competition, you must rebound
to win.

Happily the season is not over. There is a long way to
go, wal ene soon now there won’t be a chance for an:
more losses. And when that time comes the most import-
ant thing is the mental attitude of a team. A big week
lies ahead beginning tomorrow night in Charleston—

Good luck.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

good only for second place, as
John Rimm won with a pool and
VMI school record (5:33.3).

Rimm ruined another fine

| showing of Grey's in the 200 free.

In setting the Southern Confer
ence Dual Meet record in the
event with 1:54.9, he pushed
Grey's 2:08.6 into second place.

In the 50 free, John Alexander
took second between two VMI
finishers. His time was 25.5,
Randy Hughes and David Grant

Rifle Team Romps
To A 13-7 Season

Last Friday and Saturday the
rifle team turned in two of their

best performances of the year.
Against P.C. the "Cats carded a.
1393 (perfect score for all five
men would be 1500) and easily;
took the twelfth meet of the.
year.

Saturday, the final tally was
1391; this time Oak Ridge was
the victim. Three men turned in
exceptional scores for the day:
Sandy Black (291), Jim Kopp
(282) and Dick Forrester (280).
Black's mark was the best of
the year and was only two points
below the record high set by Bill
Blakely last year.

The ‘Cats next meet will be

the Western Carolinas Confer-|

ence Meet to be held at Wofford
a week from tomorrow. David-
son will actually be the host
team but the location was moved
because of lack of facilities. Go-
ing into the meet, the riflemen

INE
Every

will carry a 13-7 record.

At the, Coach Dwight Shoe made no excuses for his small band
of 'Cat swimmers after they lost decisively (62-39) a meet

afternoon.

finished two-three in the 100
free. behind the torrid winning
pace of Mike Kearriey (53.4).
Then, Alexander and Jim Down.
ey teamed up for a similar fin-
ish in the 200 back.

Closing out the afternoon, the
‘Cats 400 free relay team, com-
posed of Grey, Grant, Hughes
and Hensley, outdistanced the
Keydets and closed the final
margirof defeat to 23 points.

“I can't say I'm really dis-
pleased,"’ said Shoe after the
meet. ‘“‘We turned in some fine
individual performances. I think
we'll be ready for Emory on
Saturday.’ The ‘Cats will meet
their Georgia opponents tomor
row afternoon in the Davidson
pool.

tered student
can get a job in Europe and
receive a travel grant.
Among thousands of jobs
available are resort, sales,
lifeguard and office work.
No experience is necessary
and wages range to $400
monthly. For a complete

rospectus, travel grant and
Tob application returned air-

| mail, send $1 to Dept. F,

American Student Informa-

Liberte, Luxembourg City,
Grand Duchy of Luxem-
bourg.

| points and playing a tenacious
defense, the ATO's were able to
| keep the taller and usually high
scoring Sigs off the pace. How
ard Arbuckle led the losers with
13 points, followed by Jim Full
er’s 11.

Meanwhile, the Phi Gams
maintained their press on the
league-leaders, downing the Phi
Delts in overtime, 52-48. Jimmy
Hyder pumped the bucket for 20
points for the winners, John
“Goose"’ Barrow once again led
the Phi Delts with 19.

Advancing into a second place
tie with the Phi Gams and the
Kappa Sigs, the KA’s rolled over
two. opponents, the Sigma Nus
and the Betas. Led by Charlie

Marshall, Haynes Kelly,
Rick Smyre, the bearded ones
early outclassed both teams.

IMAC BASKETBALL
ATO 6-0
Kappa Sig 5-1
Phi Gam 5-1
KA 5-1
Independent 42
Phi Delt 3-2
SAE 4-3
Sigma Chi 4-3
Beta 2-5
Pika 2-6
Sig Ep 1-6
Sigma Nu 1-7
Pi Kapp 0-5

and |}

Bottled under the authority of
The Coca-Cola Company by:

aaueeessf0X trot
twist ...waltz
lindy...samba
mambo...cha-

bend

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Carolina

FRED HETZEL FINISHES up one of the finest moves of the
season as he dipped and drove and then spun in this lay-up.
(Photo by McCutchen)

The Hub

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH
SEWANEE, TENNESSEE
ANNOUNCES

A 1964 SUMMER SESSION FOR
MEN AND WOMEN
Eight weeks; June 22—August 15
Liberal arts curriculum
Forest environment
Sewanee Summer Music Center

For the Summer School Bulletin
address the Director of the Summer School

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

