Che Aauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1964

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the editor.)

Warner Hall

Reverend Warner Hall spoke here
recently at John Spratt’s request on
the “Philosophy of the (Trustee) Edu-
cation Committee.”

Reverend Hall is a recognized
leader in the Southern Presbyterian
Church and a man with strong convic-
tions which he is willing to defend at
length; but if what he gave us was
actually the philosophy of the educa-
tion committee or even his concept of

The Oath

(a) Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as
Lord and Savior and do you believe
in the fundamental teachings of
evangelical Christianity?

(b) Do you believe the Scriptures of the
Old and New Testament to be the
word of God, the only infallible rule
of faith and practice?

(¢) Do you promise in humbte reliance

Reverend Hall’s defense of the
faculty oath ran roughly as follows:
Davidson College is a teaching arm of
the Presbyterian Church, and as such,
has the right to perpetuate the Chris-
tian faith in any manner it sees fit.
Thus the college has the right to re-
quire of its professors a basic commit-
ment to evangelical Christianity, but
aside from that central commitment,
they are “free to follow their own
aims searching for truth . . . to search
for truth anywhere they want...”

In commenting further on com-
mitment, Rev. Hall remarked _ that
student opposition to the faculty oath
means that students do not think that
faculty members should be committed
at all. Such is a perversion of a stand
(ours) if-we ever heard one, but more
on that presently.

Another expression of the same
line of thinking comes from English
Professor C. E. Lloyd: “ . . . the col-
lege has the right to say what group of
men its professors should come from.
I feel that it is entirely right for the
college to be committed: to a certain
means of life. I think the people who
founded the college were on the right
track. I don’t want to see a weaker
relationship between the college and
the Church.” (THE DAVIDSONIAN,
Feb. 8, 1963)

We very much agree that David-
son College should be aware of a basic
Christian commitment, and we cer-
tainly have no particular desire to
see Davidson become a secular col-
lege. And the college obviously has the
right to say “what group of men its
professors should come from.”

But how it follows that the facul-
ty oath is right, necessary, or wise
frankly beats us.

The trustee position ‘on the oath
is puzzling. For two years the oath has
not even been administered to men
being inaugurated as full professors,
and yet last Spring the trustees re-
fused to vote it out, tabling it instead
for consideration by the Education
Committee.

The logic of the oath itself escapes
us. A man can teach on the facuity
here for any number of years without
taking the oath, but in order to be-
come a full professor he must pub-
licly aver his loyalty to evangelical
Christianity. Thus the oath, far from
keeping undesirable points of view
from being presented in the class-
room, serves more as a financial
penalty on those who refuse to take it.

Needless to say, the most im-
portant argument against the faculty
oath is the fact that many qualified
professors, including evangelical
Christians, will not come to a school

Commitment

Rev. Hall also spoke at length
about commitment, and maintained
throughout his talk and the later dis-
cussion that a man can make an intel-
lectual commitment without ever
coming in direct contact with alien
systems—i.e. one can make a commit-
ment merely by reading books and
hearing spoon-fed lectures.

Perhaps so, but may we begin by
questioning how strong such a com.
mitment would be.

Dr. Scriven pointed out how poor-
ly American soldiers in Korea with-
stood brainwashing, simply because
they had never come directly in con-
tact with Communism, and hence had
no idea how to answer an idealogical
attack on Democracy.

A glaring answer to Rev. Hall’s
remark that beliefs can be formed
from reading occurred (hardly for the
first time) in the discussions Dr.
Scriven held during his brief stay—
students again and again proved them-
selves incapable of expressing or de-
fending their Christian beliefs. Ques-
tions asked Dr. Scriven were often
ridiculous and easily disposed of, and
students seemed incapable of coming
back with their book-learned know-
ledge.

To continue with the Scriven ex-

that philosophy, then this institution
is in for trouble.

Ignoring (for this issue anyway)
what he called his “solution to the
library problem,” the following edi-
torials will deal primarily with his
comments concerning the faculty oath,
and the more nebulous question of
just what does and what does not
make for strong personal commit-
ments.

upon the grace of God which comes

by the Holy Spirit, so to live and

feach as to give expression to the

Christian faith?

—Loyalty oath which all full pro-
fessors at Davidson College are
presentiy required to fake aft
their inauguration during com-
mencement exercises.

which requires a loyalty oath because
they feel, and rightly so, that such a
requirement is an infringement on
their academic freedom.

The faculty oath is a test of
faculty loyalties, and there should be
no such test—each faculty member
ought to be table to establish his own
loyalties.

. That is not to say that-the col-
lege should have no control] over
what loyalties its faculty should
hold.

But such control should come
during the hiring of professors, not via
a loyalty oath. If the oath were drop-
ped, the school would still screen ap-
plicants as it pleased. But having
hired a man they believe capable of
doing a job at Davidson. nothing fur-
ther should be required of him by
way of an oath of loyalty.

And if some men of differing be-
liefs did join the faculty, so what?
Far from endangering the Christian
context of Davidson, we feel that if
the MacCormac-Scriven discussion
this week proved nothing else, it
proved that men with beliefs alien to
Christianity can do a_ tremendous
amount towards stimulating intellec-
tual education, and towards actually
strengthening one’s Christian commit-
ment.

If the oath were to be voted out,
Davidson would have a much better
chance to get outstanding professors
in several fields. And to answer Rev.
Hall’s charge that students do not
want their professors to be committed,
the last thing we want is a professor
who is not committed to anything.

Perhaps, however, we would like
to occasionally come in sustained con-
tact with a man whose basic commit-
ment is not necessarily to Christian-
ity. A great many of this country’s out-
standing (and committed) scholars,
men whose textbooks “infiltrate” our
minds every day anyway, are not
evangelical Christians.

Again, the screening process by
those who hire and fire could easily
control the proportion of how many
men on the faculty believe what. How-
ever, the stigma of an oath would not
be present to offend the feelings of
many good scholars that the college
would like to have teaching here.

Davidson has been fortunate in
the past as far as quality of faculty,
but in tightening competition for good
professors, (particularly in fields such
as philosophy, foreign languages, and
the natural sciences), a college this
size with a faculty oath is living on
borrowed time.

We hope very much to see the
faculty oath abolished at the coming
meeting of the trustees.

ample of the value of direct contact—
we doubt he converted anyone here.
But he called us holy innocents, told
us everything most of us had been
brought up to believe in was empty
and false—we watched him all day as
he demolished with ease befuddled
ministers and all-knowing freshmen
discoursing on philosophers whose
names they couldn’t even pronounce.

Trouble was he ran through the
few intelligent questions with equal
ease, and we went to Chambers Tues-
day night to watch Professor Earl
MacCormac get run off the stage.

Scriven, an impressive man any-
way, read his opening manuscript
arguing for the non-existence of God
with unnerving confidence, and to
say the least around a thousand people
were paying a great deal of attention
when Professor MacCormac stood up
and to general relief told us that not
only could he shoot Scriven’s position
full of holes, but there was too a good
case for the existence of God.

From what we’ve seen, students
tend to react strongly for or against
things in college, and they also tend
to form strong loyalties. At Davidson
for.four years we’ve watched recur-
ring reactions which aln.ost invariab-
ly end up anti-organized religion. Part

of the reaction is against the required
aspect of worship here, and part is
against some of the speakers them-
selves—the worst of which range from
shouting backwoods evangelists to
smug sophisticated types.

In fact, this week was the first
time we can remember that we've ever
seen anything resembling, widespread,
genuine student interest in the exist-
ence of God or any other religious
question. It took an atheist (not a
book) to set off the reaction — and
most students reacted strongly, nega-
tively or otherwise. Professor Mac-
Cormac’s comments in defense of the
existence of God meant more to many
students than all the books on religion
we've ever read.

, But unfortunately the debate may
have produced in some a Billy Gra-
ham-type of revival faith—strong now
but extremely liable to taper off short-
ly. Such makes us feel that perhaps
a continuing dialogue would be of
even greater value, i.e. that men of
Seriven’s caliber could perform quite
a service if permitted to remain on
campus for more than 48 hours.

A running dialogue among pro-
fessors who actually themselves rep-
resent divergent points of view could
have a powerful effect on Davidson’s

intellectual atmosphere — forcing
students to decide where their loyal-
ties actually lie. .

So why not concentrate on trying
to create such an atmosphere, rather.
thon merely trying to maintain the
status quo—as Davidson College all
too often tends to try to do with its
98% Protestant students body.

And again, if Rev. Hall believes
Christianity to be the revealed Truth,
and thus capable of withstanding all
challenges, why does he seem so re-
luctant to test it, with Buddhism, Com-
munism, Judaism, or whatever.

Finally, Dr. Hall mentioned being
willing to die for your faith. We feel
we would he hard pressed to find a
student at Davidson who would be
willing to give his life for the faith
he has built here. Real faith—the kind
of faith to which one would dedicate
life or death—can only come about
as a product of conflict, be it ideologi-
cal or otherwise.

We get very little conflict here
of any kind, and then only in extreme-
ly small doses. We feel that the lack of
conflict is directly responsible for
much of the lack of commitment. It
would follow, Rev. Hall, that with add-
ed conflict would come more of the
kind of commitment you desire. DTS

Student Outshafts Coe
With Reply To Refusal

Ed. Note: In the following form letter, we learn how the complete Davidson Gentle-
man gives personal attention to girls who shoot the shaft. This unexpurgated version

was contributed by Fred Harrison.
Dear . cesses

I am very sorry that you could
not come to Davidson for the
weekend of o.00000... 15 know
that we would have had a real
fun time together drinking hard
liquor. doing fancy pirouettes
and contortions on the dance
floor, blowing smoke
around each other’s noses, and

ture

woman can understand
18) you don't have enough cuts
19) important tests in the fu-

20) your schnauzer is having
a delicate Caesarean

21) you are pinned, engaged,
rings Married, or going steady

you were up to my standards

26) you figured a senior who
had to blind date couldn't be
too sharp, but you're (wrong)
(right) this might prevent you
from coming down to Davidson
this weekend.

I know that you really did
want to come, and I'm awfully

22) you have just heard that sorry that you won't be sharing

whispering neat things to one Richard Burton is a eunuch and the fun with me for the weekend
another. Every time we're to. are disillusioned with mankind of ........0....

gether I enjoy so much — (check
where applicable) son
—(Winthrop girl) debating
whether or not the Twist is
really dead; or if the S.C. beach
boogie will ever make big time. °

to recapture the sentimental

23) you despise me as a per-

24) someone must have told
—(Queens girl (7) ) trying you lies about me

(Love) (Love always) (Al-
ways) (Passionately) (Sincere-

(If blind date, also check ly).
one of following)

(Signed) _....
P.S. I really didn't want you to
come this weekend anyway. I
just asked you to see what you

25) someone told you how would say. Guess I really made

spirit of those wonderful high great I was and you didn’t feel you feel bad.

schoot days long past.

—(Salem girl) trying to con-
vince you that Wakies are as
bad as their football: or maybe
just sitting in some secluded
basement spot where no one else
ever goes.

—(Converse girl) observing

your unique taste in clothes, Read Across:

how this seems to reflect the [F-SHE’S A FRESHMAN

how this seems to reflect the

degeneration of the landed South She blushes at naughty jokes. | She smiles at naughty jokes.
She says, ‘Oh, please stop that!'"] She says: “Oh, please stop:”

Carolina aristocracy.
—(Hollins, Randolph-Macon.

SOPHOMORE
She smiles at naughty jokes.

Sweet Briar girls) consoling you She wants to marry a football] She wants to marry a movie

because you couldn't quite get player.

star.

An Urchin's Wa

GREEK WEEK: VIOLENCE,
LIES, DISILLUSIONMENT,
HUMILIATION — NOT BROTHERHOOD

BY DUNCAN D. NEWCOMER

A new religion is on campus! Like a fertility rite it
comes each spring under the auspices of a full moon.

The religion has an ethic: Do onto others what you
would least like done to you.

The religion has a social gospe!: All men are not
to be treated the same because all men are created
unequal—some more unequal than others.

The religion has a doctrine of salvation: Submit.

The religion has an eschatology: In the last judge-
ment all will be saved who have done best that which is
least important in life—shine shoes, run in mud, sing
under tables, etc.

The religion has a God: His existence is hard to
prove. He is everyone who takes his name and
projects it onto the name of his fraternity and then
worships himself in the guise of a brotherhood. This
religion makes everyone a God! ;

It must be some kind of self-worship that gives one
the right to assume power over another.

The religion has a ritual chant: “Fellowship is unity,
step-ball-chain. Unity is brotherhood, march-in-rain.” It
goes on.

The new religion’s view of the nature of man is the
best: Some men are more than human, superhuman.
These brutes have the duty to humiliate and therefore
build character in those who are less than human, sub-
human.

Sub-humans are not allowed to think themselves to
be much of anything. Superhumans think themselves to
be almost everything. Both lose the right to self respect
one week each year. .

The religion has non-belivers too, skeptics. They
think brotherhood is based on understanding and concern
for one another’s welfare. They think superhumans think
too much of their own worth. They think sub-humans
ought to think more of themselves. They think the yearly
ritual of fake hate, manufactured animosity, string of
lies. myths, and fairy tales, and the humiliation of Greek
week is bad.

All religions aside, Greek Week is a moral issue.
There is violence, hate, and lies, suffering, resent-
ment, and disillusionment.

A lot of power is used to keep such a machine roll-
ing. What justifies that power?

Is it brotherhood when the tool of brother-pledge
relationship is humiliation and falsehood?

Is it unity when the alliance falls apart as soon as
the enemy loses interest?

Is it respect when everything done during the week
is disrespectful?

Is it teaching manhood when blindfolds, lies, and
paddles bring the teacher and pupil together?

It is love for the little beggars when there is not
even justice?

DAVIDSONIAN Guide To Female Behavior

Ed. Note: This past summer the following revelations of the social habits of the American college girl were published In the
University of Florida Summer Gator. We offer these insights now in the hope they will help our readers better understand the
complexities of female behavior.

JUNIOR
She laughs at naughty jokes.
She. says, ‘Oh, please!”

SENIOR
She tells naughty jokes.
She says, “Oh!"
She wants to marry a capitalist.| She wants to marry a man.

into Vassar, etc,: or maybe talk- She thinks a college education

ing about your several trips to leads to things social, cultural,

the Continent (or Charlottesville. and academic.

Lexington), and learning. how © ..,,5.. «anit ic ina

really broadening travel is. She thinks midnight is late.
—(Vassar, Smith girls) con. ——

templating truth and reality in She Reads: What Every Young

life as we watch the mundane Gir! Should Know.

mass of conformist humanity She wont date a boy who has

tread beneath us. ever had a drink.

—(Other schools too insignif'-§ —————___———-—__—__—_
cant to be mentioned here) She thinks things learned in
This weekend certainly was college leave one intelligent.
Shaping up to be a good one
until I (received your 1). call, 2) She tells her mother everything.

telegram, 3) letter. 4) memo. 5)

message by word of mouth) :

(realized that you were not on She likes to Smooch,

the 1) bus, 2) train, 3) plane, 4) Her motto: Mother knows best.

car). I know it would have been _

fun because 1) we have such a She thinks all men are nice.

terrific combo, 2) we don’t have G4

a party but the .......... ‘s do, 3) She drinks cokes on a date.

the wo... *s are flat broke, but

I know. that. someone will be

having a party.
But please don’t feel bad

about not coming. | can cer-.

fainly understand how (check Hill

any applicable)
1) a death in your immediate For the last week I have, been

family hearing the latest thing in re-
2) a funeral in your immediate cordings, ‘‘I Want to Hold Your

family. Hand,"' booming forth over the
3) two funerals in your im- campus. I have listened first

mediate family (damned or- with some degree of amusement,

phan!) but lately my amusement has
4) a sudden illness in your im- changed to boredom.

mediate family However, this morning. after
5) a mild illness in not-so-im- a week of exams accompanied

mediate family by loss of sleep, I was awaken-
6) a strange contracting of so- ed rudely at 8 a.m. by the same

cial disease by your fourth sound that has brought ecstatic

cousin on your mother's side joy (2) to all those who have
7) a mythology makeup test heard it. I'm sure that I was not
8) a very special meeting of the only one trying to catch up

orientation leaders on some sleep, not to mention
9) your difficulty in finding a those who were up early for last

tide on only two week's notice minute study before exams. I
10) you have already made question not the value of the

plans to go somewhere else record. It may even Ixjve some.
11) you received my invitation What I do question is how the
and hastily made plans to g0 record is being used. by whom
somewhere else it is Leing used, and, most im-

12) you had vowed long ago portant, at what hour it is being

to make plans to go some- used.
where else if | ever called you Davidson is supposed to be a
again . . school for gentlemen. If it is im-
13) I don’t excite you possible for some to be gentle-
14) no one in my fraternity jen, 1 wish they would at least

excites you
retend to be.
15) too many in my fraternity P

have excited you before
16) your Young Christians Tille
Convocation of Pure Hearts had . y
already planned a live presen- The front page of your issue

tation of Sodom and Gomorrah of December 8 carried a story
17) special problems only a about author John Knowles. One

Hunter Hill

She thinks a college education
leads to things social and cul-
tural.

She thinks midnight is pretty
late.

She reads: How to Win Friends
and influence People.

She won't date a boy who has
just had a drink.

She thinks things learned in col-
lege leave one fairly intelligent.

She tells her room-mate every-
thing.

She likes to Smooch.

Her motto: Death before dis-
honor.

She thinks some men aren't nice.

She thinks a college education
leads to things social.

She thinks. midnight isn’t so late.
She reads: The Arts of Love.

She won't date a boy who has
had over one drink.

She thinks things learned in col-
lege leaves one intelligent
enough.

She tells her diary everything.

She. likes to Smooch.

Her motto: Nothing ventured
nothing gained.

She thinks most men aren‘t nice.

She drinks “pink ladies’’ on a} She drinks hi-balls on a date. |

date,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

theme of this story, so far as I
could make out its themes, was
that Knowles’s human charac-
teristics should immunize him
against criticism. Another seem-
ed to be that Knowles was cri-
ticized unfairly in the reviews
of his book appearing in the
December first issue of THE
DAVIDSONIAN. Since I wrote
one of the reviews, I should like
to reply to your story.

It is irrelevant to the criticism
of novels what kinds of persons
their authors happen to be. It
makes no difference whether A

Separate Peace was written by
machine, orang-utang, or simple-
minded man. The work must
stand or fall on its own charac-
ter.

It is irrelevant what the author
of a novel may think about its
reviews. If Mr. Knowles cannot
tell the difference between my
review and, say, a Carolina
freshman's, that tells us some-
thing about Mr. Knowles, but
nothing about his book.

As for the author's contention
that I misread his book, I might
equally contend that he mis-

She thinks a college education
leads to things.

She thinks midnight is midnight,

——
She reads: Care and Feeding of
Infants.

Ce
She won't date a boy unless he
drinks.

—
She thinks things learned in col-
lege leave one.

——
She doesn’t tell a d— — thing.

She likes to Smooch.
—_—
Her motto: Boys will be boys.

_—_——
She thinks no men are nice.

——
She drinks anything, anytime,
anywhere.

read my review. For in discuss-
ing his book here Mr, Knowles
emphasized the idea I criticized
in my review, except that what
he thought profound and “very
true," I judged to be (1) banal
and (2) unsound. My judgment
may be mistaken. But it will not
be mistaken simply because Mr.
Knowles happens to like A
Separate Peace better than I do.
Or because he is willing to drink
beer with someone at Hattie's.
W. H. Tilley

Associate Professor of English

\ eS

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ...
BUSINESS MANAGER ..... ...

Associate Editor ..
Assistant Editors

Assignments Editor ... John Todd

Feature Editor _
Sports Editor .
Assistant Sports Editor
News Editor
Photography Editor .

.... Jeff Wampler Photographers
Rick von Unwerth
Duncan Newcomer Cartoonists
Tom Loflin
Rick Lowery

Joe McCutchen

Bob Strauser
Jim Downey

David Stitt
Rick Finch
wee Sam Smith
Romir Chatterjee
----- Dan Adams
Johnny Wright
Rufus Hallmark
Paul van den Berg

Assistant Bus. Manager Charlie Smith
Advertising Manager - Irvine Welling
Circulation Manager .

Malcolm Lane

Contributors This Week: Harry Carr, John Bailey, Bob Holladay, George Fain,
Cliff Kirkpatrick, Allen Webb, Rufus Adair, Bill Aitken, Bill Norfleet, Pat
Freeny, Paul Simpson, Taylor Blackwell, Bill Hufford, Charles Edwards, David

Coffey, Tucker Laxton, David Powell and Johnny Clark.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina,

under Act of March 3, 1879.

eT ee I A,
