FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1964

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

IFC Releases Plans For Function, Spring Frolics

Frolics Slates Saints, Singers,

Joe, Eddie, Bud, Travis, Fred

There will be quite a Spring Frolics this year. In contrast to previous Frolics
where nobody much came and everybody here left to let the sap flow freely, the IFC
April 2456. the holding power of five attractions crammed into two big nights,

The first three hour, two intermission whing-ding features Joe and Eddie, the
Serendipity Singers, and Fred Smoot. Saturday night promises the Four Saints and
Bud and Travis. Both stints are scheduled about seven to ten p.m.

There is one interesting question about the Frolics, and that is whether the
black sweater gang can muscle their traditional D Club Foolies into the tight enter-
tainment line-up. Will it be before sev:en, or after ten, or will it be? Perhaps the
Foolies can travel around to the various after-parties?

The college in general is stepping aside for this spring gala, except that the
Tennis and Baseball teams will be on the road, and a Wind Ensemble concert is
Slated for Friday night. Other than that there are no conflicts, no decisions, just
six big hours.

The three-hour concert is something new on the Davidson campus, but is being
used “very successfully by colleges all over the country” (IFC President Haynes
Kelly). So Good Deals come south at last.

—_—

‘|

Serendipity means “the unexpected discovery of a new and happy event.” The
seven boys and two girls who comprise the SERENDIPITY SINGERS meet that defini-
tion as well as anyone.

The group started with a stable of instruments, and a boundless zest for singing,
picked up two girls, and crashed The Bitter End in New York. The result was a new-
directions act, “Folk-Jazz”—folk orientation with jazz instrumentation and arrange-
ments.

Keynote of the Singers is
a blend of extraordinary
sound en masse and utiliza-
tion of each member’s own
versatility, ranging from
wild 12-string guitar to
comedy sketches, to drama-
tic blackouts.

To have an “act’’ you be-
gin with individuals and
combine carefully: individ-
ually and in combination.
the Singers promise that el-
lusive good act.

Cnn aaa RT

ae ~

_— > 6 le

° Yes, Virginia, there reall

‘ is a FRED SMOOT. If you
Jon’t believe the name or
the person, he will be em-
cee for the Friday night
Frolics.

Fred is best described as
an English-looking plastic-
faced up-and-coming new
comic with a number of
night club and Yankee col-
lege performances under
his belt.

Fred will lace the Seren-
dipity Singers and Joe and

die with his own material,
giving the three hours in
Chambers a naughty night
club flavor. Which ought to
be interesting, with no
tables.

ed

i. - =

JOE AND EDDIE are the rather ordinary names of
two extraordinary singers. Joe Gilbert comes from New
Orleans, Eddie Brown from Norfolk, but the 21-year-old
duo got together and got their start in California, They
have moved across the country from San Francisco's

le Onion and Hungry | to New York's Blue Angel.

Their specialty is rapid-fire delivery of folk songs,
but are versatile enough to tackle Bach with the Berkley
Calvary Presbyterian Church. The Joe and Eddie philoso-
phy: “We like what we're doing. If we can sing and get
paid for it, all the better; but we're going to sing, no
matter what!”

Davidson may not be “Hootenanny,” “Tonight,” or
‘The Lively Ones,” but a big twosome will be singing in
Spring Frolics.

¢.

2a

OSCAR BROWN, who gave perhaps the best
concert performance in memory in the Fall of ’62,
again brings his own highly effective acting-singing
combination to Davidson, March 7. From the Hungry

same.
He is an actor that casts himself differently
for each of his original songs, and uses them success-
fully to paint pictures, now funny, now satiric, now
moving, but always described in reviews with the
only applicable word: electric.
As Brown himself describes the impact of his
talent: “My lyrics are verses about feelings I've felt
and scenes I’ve dug. The melodies ] made from
tunes. rhythms, chants, calls and cries that have
always sung to me. I’ve tried to make messages that
swing—and entertainment that is meaningful.”
And he swings. If meaningful means you don't
soon forget the performance, it is a very meaningful
swing.

COCRRCRECTOCOCREDCSORRUDOUCO RRO ROCRCORRERROORSRROGERDDOGRRSRRCCRORDRHORCR RAD ORASSOAnencceccccccRcogcccccccccnecaccescccnccccccncccccescucuceccsseacccuceeueccncceuacecceuceceueueuecess”

i to the Village Vanguard, the raves have been the

“March 7 Concert Brings

Brown And Brandywines

What do you do with
would say make up for lost

SY GREG GOVAN

pine thousand dollars and two more weekends? Some

others. blast off. Any way you cut it, there are three

nights of extravagant entertainment left in the year.

The IFC leveled its heavy coffers at

the remaining concert, March 7. No con-

flicting Artist Series, no conflicting basketball th i
two feature attractions between the hours of io. aad five in the ‘afternoon them,

Who, then, is taking up
our money and our after
noon? Oscar Brown leads j
off, followed by the Brand:
wine Singers. Davidson j
following in the best of iv:
league traditions with :
mass concert, a sort of hig.
brow hootenanny.

It should impress th
scholarship finalists wh
will be visiting the center o
learning in the South. But j
they don’t like the singin:
and picking, there is ;:
French touring compan:
that will be wrapping up :
week’s stay on campus. Lr
Treteau de Paris is schedu)
ed to present, in French
Jean Anouilh’s L‘Alovett
‘The Lark), February 28 tc
March 6.

The IFC highlight to the
weekend, and the drawinr
card for dates, is bracketec
on Friday and Saturda:
nights by Coach Charlir
Parker’s own top billing as
Johnston Gym hosts the
Southern Conference's ‘best
grapplers.

Concert-goers will have it
all over the wrestlers, how-
ever; they'll get to take a
break, two of them, in the
entertainment cycle. That
will give thoroughly enter-
tained Wildcats time enough
to think (1) how cool (2) how
expensive (3) how big.

‘If a late Homecoming

threw monkey wrenches in-

to the first (of three?) con-
certs, there isn't much to
hold things back now. Be-

‘tween Brown and the Bran-

dywines, there can’t be
many complaints about get:
ting your money’s worth.

Sharing the March seventh limelight with Oscar
Brown is the “Button Down Folk Music” of the BRANDY-
WINE SINGERS. The group has progressed from frat
party days at the University of New Hampshire to first
place at the Williamsport, Pennsvlvania Intercollegiate
Music Festival on the basis of good showmanship and
rare harmonic blend.

With hit singles of “Summer's Conie and Gone” and
“Two Little Boys” the Brandywine Singers have rotled
up an impressive record of concert performances in the
ivy league circuit, and gained the-reputation of mastery
of the nebulous field of folk music.

The “button down” portion of their billing comes
from what underlies the performance itself — prepara-
tion and research into what they are doing. But folk
music sung is still music, and the intercollegiate champs
have a lot in their favor as performers. It ought to be
more than another hearing of a group trying to-.climb to
the stars on guitar strings.

Actor Tony Randall summed up BUD AND TRAVIS:
they put the olive in folk music. At any rate, the “Brooks
Brothers, Balladeers” will be carrying on the folk music
into Saturday night of Spring Frolics.

They are really four voices; the accompaniment is
not just the same old chords, but vigorous classical guitar
in counter melodic movements against the folk melodies.
And the folk melodies come ten languages from Para-
guayan to Yiddish. If folk music counterpoint gets tiring,
there is generous comedy patter from the pair who think
there is great humor as well as great pathos in dusty

a .

Experience of the singers goes back to the Purple
Onion and Hungry i, the Army Special Services, the Gate-
way Singers, and a dissertation on the Yaquis Indian
language. “South Wind,” of Kingston Trio fame, is one of
many Travis originals; both claim to be able to compose
a song on request from any idea thrown out.

Another summary, perhaps more to the point than
Randall's, is that Bud and Travis are “talent-racked.”

‘

“a

Rounding out Saturday night is another return engagement for Davidson, THE —
FOUR SAINTS. One, two, three, four they are a highly versatile, highly polished
group which runs the gamut from broad comedy to subtle wit in a musical context.

The Saints can turn a ballad as well as a phrase, and put out production num-
bers, old saws, and musical humor. But original; the talented Saints rely little on
outside arrangements. To cite only one example of talent, leader John Howell plays
16 instruments and serves as everything from concertmaster to drum major.

The three SAE’s and one Sigma Chi are an entertainment surprise package, de-
veloping out of barbershopping into first rate musical styling. Both polished and
versatile can be summed up in Davidson's reaction to their first concert—great . . .

just great.
