PAGE FOUR

LUIS MANRARA, Executive Director and
President of the Truth About Cuba Committee,
gave his «xplanation and analysis of the Cu-
ban situation this week. Manrara outlined
Cuba's descent into Communism and termed
the global Communist blue print for subjuga-

heard. “How else could I have four exams in 242 days

an unreasonable exam schedule.

The man who is primarily re-
sponsible for scheduling. Reg-
istrar F. M. Hengeveld, has
‘cleared up a few popular mis-
conceptions: exams are set up
on a pattern that has proved the
most efficient for over 10 years.
A rotating plan is used, the two
periods having exams on the
last day of exams at the end of
one semestef have their exams
on the first day of exarns the
next semester.

one
Hengeveld said that ‘“‘this is
the simplest. method for avoid-
ng conflicts and congestion
among students and for pre-
venting cértain professors from

Bailey Hunt Maloney Plott
BY BOB HOLLADAY ple wre
Br : ye -
yan Jackson Marrotte Rhodes Poet Robert Watson announced in chapel period ; “a
a Miss Cumming Johnston Minter Schenck juesday that John Pruitt was the first-place winner of
AL . e Vereen M. Bell Memorial Prize for Creative Writin
aw oo 4 en Campbell McGeachy Pierce = Smith for his short-story, “Shroud of Victory.” e
—
of vhs © rf co bees Pruitt is a senior from Atlan. story ‘‘The Puppet Monkey”
‘ ' ta, Ga. His winning entry is a and for second-place Greg Go-
Al len Siokes Flected story of the friendship between van's “A Carpet of Winter
9 two high school track team Grass."
1 members. Before annoureing the win-
' bal As judge of the contest. Wat- sers,. Watson, who is associate —
onor our { ice rs son commerided the authors of professor of English at the Uni- {
the manuscripts that he had versity of North Carolina, at !
Hugh Allea and Jim Stokes were: elected by the | read for the high quality of their Greensboro, read a poem from
Honor Court this week to serve as the 1964-65 Honor | work. He cited for first-place his published book, A Paper
{Court chairman and recorder. honorable mention Toms Loflin’s Horse, and four other poems
vom = Witston Salem, served ,
tion “right on schedule.” He further moted,| tiils past year as retorder for The fund for the prize was
“The so-catled rift between Soviet Russia andj the Court and as secretary ‘or C OS STae roupe established in memory of Ver-
Red China is only a deliberate hoax pihnmed| Pat Delta Theta social frater- een M. Bell, a Davidson grad-
by the Communist conspiracy.” Manrara fled] nity: In addit.on to let-ering ia uate in the class of 1982 who
Castro’s Cuba in August, 1960. (See articis# en | wrestling. he serves as Baptis1 7 . published numerous short stor-
page two.) (Staf¥ Photo by Srotth)| Stucént Union vice president: l ar ere IJ les and a novel, and who was i
and #@ a fres} man hall! coun- v " wee in action during World
CLAIMS HENGEVELD relor [Watson
—_—=—=—=—=—=_=_=_==_=_—_= An ATO from Winter Sark,| An international sing and  Dumng the last two years, the atson’s best received poem,
Fla.. Stokes is a school record] stance troupe known as the: Ayalos have enjoyed! purticu- “Success,” appears in’ tie
Exam Schedule Not Just |i itty mie is si i wt ie enn cunt | ay cad of
team. Last year if@ was prest.| Cliambers Auditorium at'8 p.m. forming before audiences in: Davida y e y a formes
dent of ‘te Freshman Counetl.{ on Friday, Apeit 17. Sew Yaris, Boston, Miami and|D#?idson professor, Guy Owen. -.,
bd ° la rising jomior, okes will| Comprised of the Four Aya- other cities, They have played] Also represented in the same
T 1trar ut stematic gerve as a freshmam hall coun:|lons. singing comics, ano! the at Carmgle Hall and on they issue of tha: magazine are ‘Profi. 5
J selor next' year. Elkayam Sisters, two folk EA Sullican television show. | Etnest FP. Patterson and Dab 4
BY PAUL SIMPSON ; daheers, the Echos feature . ney Stuart. a 1960 Davidson |”,
um: . » Newly elected Steve Rams| ong, huwnor, dances and sa. The Ellcryam Sisters, are petr| graduate’ amd now a memberr M =
They must make out the exam schedule by drawing from a hat,” 1s the cry often| burgh and Steve Davidson wiil} ji. oj modern Sarael forming with the Ayalons for] of the facutty of The College.of. ™
2” In the last post-exam com-| join Dick Bates, Mac Mays ane im ane the first’ time on this tour William: andi
: : : : aa t vall perform under the aus- . iam’ and! Mary. ee —
plaint period, many disgruntled students cast the blame for lack of achievement on| Ronnie Reese as semor repre | ices of the National Studém ,
sentatives. Other new court in tation and the Israeli Stud:
having their exams on the last schedule during which no stud-} members include rising juniors} ssoctation ane aa . bd
day semester after semester.’’ ent would have two exams on] Johm Burks and Eric Nichols ents’ dtganization. : QF ns citon Taws - ~ |
Prior to the adoption of the one day. He said that this could] and rising sophomores Lloyd a“ ° |

ELECTIONS
RESULTS

STUDENT COUNCIL
President
Wil) Jackson
First Vice President
Andy Little
Second Vice President
Bill Council
Secretary-Treasurer
Tom Frist
Freshman Advisor
John Barrow

HONOR COURT

Class of °65
Steve Davidson
Steve Ramsburgh
Class of ‘66
John Burks
Eric Nichols
Class of °67
Lloyd Davidson.
Steve Humphrey

CLASS OFFICERS

Class of ‘65
President
Fred Sackett
Vice-President
Tommy Heffner
Secretary-Treasurer
Don Davidson
Representatives
Charlie Marshall:
David Walker
Class of '66
President
David Powell
Vice-President
Arnie Snider
Representative
Billy Clark
Class of °67
President
Chuck Matthews
Representative
Johnny Gresham

COLLEGE UNION
President
Steve Bunch

YMCA
President
Lanier Burns
Vice President
Eric Nichols
Treasurer
Mac Otts
Secretary
Barry St. Clair

PUBLICATIONS
EDITORS
Scripts ‘n Pranks
Pete Crow
Quips and Cranks
Zach Long
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Charles Dibble

present method, exams were
arranged by classes rather than
courses, i.e. Bible 11. English
21, Psychology 31, etc.. at the
same exam period. But this
often led to terrible conflicts fer
the students, and some profes-
sors would have five and six
exams on the same day.

Hengeveia pointed out that
they have kept for years
exact records of the number
of students having classes
each year. And the rotation of
a set schedule, although some-
times causing congestion, has
proved to keep the pressure
lowest for the most students.

The registrar also mentioned
three other factors which should
help retieve some of the exam
burden on students. First. the.
exam schedules are available
far in advance of exams so that
students can plan their studying
to meet their particular needs.

Second, as most students
probably know, it is possible to
change an exam period by tak-
ing an exam with another sec-
tion of the same course.

Finally, a one-day reading
period (May 19) will proceed
this spring’s exams; this will
give students a day and a half
with no classes fo prepare for
the exams.

This last .improvement was
suggested by the student mem-
ber of the scheduling commit-
tee. This faculty committee of
four faculty members—Dr. J.
T. Drake. Dean Frontis John-
ston, John Bailey and Dr. T. 8.
Logan-and one student council-
appointed representative meets
twice a year to discuss curric-
ulum planning and it welcomes
student suggestions.

Hengeveld was.asked if there
was no possibility of using the
IBM computer to construct a

rn er i nn ane neers enn eran man nee
THURS. A.M. Fourth hour classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

THE DAVIDSONIAN

After Vespers Open House

The following professors will hold open house for
students after vespers this Sunday night:

be done—but- that it would in-
volve lengthening the school
year about two weeks.

Davidson and Steve Humphrey.
The other junior representative
is Brétt Snider’ ’

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

WED. A.M. Taird hour classes Monduy. Wednesday, Fridas
May 20 P.M.

ELECTIONS

(Continsed From Page One)

MacDonald said that he would
like to see more changes made
in‘ the election set-up. He said
that there was too much pres-
suce and work ofr the Elections
Chairman. Also, he called for
an even more compact election
schedule mext year.

More publicity was also need-
ed slong wittr more open elec-

May 21 P.M. Fourth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Fricay
FRI. A.M.
May 22 P.M. Fifth hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

SAT. A.M. First, hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday. Saturday | tions, he claimed. “There's still
May 23 P.M. not enough interest around,”’ he
MON. A.M. First hour classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday said.

May 25 P.M. Sixth hour classes Monday, Wednesday. Friday
hn es

TUES. A.M.
May 26 P.M. Second hour classes Tuesday, Thursday. Saturaay

WED. A.M. ROTC f2, 22. 32. 42

May 27 P.M. organization into the elections,”
THURS. A.M. Second hour classes Monday, Wednesday. Friday] McNtuilen said. ‘so the success
May 28 P.M. Third hour classes Tuesday, Thursday. Saturday | can te attriouted to him.”

Faculty Shifts Holidays,
Institutes Reading Day

The Davidson College activities. Dr. J. T. Drake.
academic calendar for the professor of sociology and chair:
school year 1964-65, as ap- man of ttie Academic: Schedui-
proved in its skeleton form ing Committee, told THE DAV.
last October by the faculty, IDSONIAN, “If we had canned
incorporates two changes in on as we did—making adjust-
its traditional rounds of ments for the one day differ-
registrations, vacations, and ence between the calendars—it
examinations. might have been @ little earty

Classes will commence a Compared. with other schools.”
week later than has been usual, Christmas vacation, which
and a free “reading period’ day lasted three weeks under this
has been scheduled before each year's calendar, will be short-
series of semester examina- ened to a little over two weeks.
tions.

Discussing the week's delay
in the beginning of next year's

Keith McMullen. a member
of the Elections Board. had
praise for MacDonald's hand-
ling of the election details.
“Walt’s put a lot of time and

Spring holidays will again be
extended over two weekends.

Student opinion was a main
reason for the decision to es-
tablish a free day before exam:
inations. ‘Students have been
asking for it,’ said Dr. Drake;
“and there is indication that
there will be proper use of. it—
without going to the beaches.
Both study days are scheduled
on Tuesdays, and I must: admit
there ‘must have been a little
malice aforethought.”

CALENDAR 1964-65

Memorial Services
Held For Mrs. Dole

___Mrs. Helen Dole. 52. wife of Coach William E. Dole,
died in a local hospital last week after a long illness.

The memorial service. held at
3 p.m. last_Friday in the David-
son College Presbyterian
Church. was conducted by the
pastor. Rev. Curtis P. Harper
and Rev. Tom Cutting. pastor
of the Providence Presbyterian
Church in Charlotte.

Mrs. Dole. a native of Beck-
ley, W. Va.. graduated from the
University of West Virginia and
taught there from 1933 through
1937. She later taught at East
Carolina College in Greenville
and Concord College in West
Virginia.

Long active in church work,
Mrs. Dole became the first
president of the Women of the
Church at Davidson in the fall
of 1954, She later served as
president of the Concord Wom.
en of the Church and Concord
Presbytery, and president of the
North Carolina Synodical for
the Davidson College Church
from 1958 through 1962, direct-
ing the synodical training school
for Presbyterian Women of the
North Carolina Synod.

However, her activities were
not confined only to church
work. In 1960 she trained a
group of Girl Scouts in folk

Sept. 10-15 Orientation.
Sept. 14-15 Re-examinations.

Sept. 14 Faculty meeting.
Sept. 14-15 Registration.
Sept. 16 Wednesday. Classes begin.
Nov. 25 Wednesday, 4:30. Thanksgiving begins.
Nov. 30 Monday, 8:20. Thanksgiving ends.
Dec. 19 Saturday, 12:10. Christmas holidays begin.
Jan. 4 Monday, 8:20. Christmas holidays end.
dancing and planned the cos-| Jan. 18 Monday. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
tumes-for a class play at North} — classes held.
Mecklenburg High School where] Jan. 19 Tuesday. Pre-exam study day.
her son Bill was in attendance. Jan. 20 Wednesday. Examinations begin.
ing tor he ‘Toothall tearm her Jan. 28 Thursday. Examinations end.
husband coached.” She attend-| Jan. 29-31 Semester break.
ed all the games with him until] Feb. 1 Monday, 8:20. Second semester begins.
the time of her illness. March 27 Saturday, 12:10. Spring recess begins.
k Sirvivors. jin addition to ner April 5 Monday, 8:20. Recess ends.
235Da and son, are mother,
Mrs. George Williams of Beck- May 24 Monday: esday, Thursday, Saturday
Wiltiags va‘ Of Beckley: and May 25 Tuesday. Pre-exam study day.

Wednesday. Examinations begin.
Thursday. Examinations end..

Commencement.

sisters, Mrs. Ralph Amick of] May 26
Beckley, W. Va.. Mrs. Kenneth] June 3
Allen of Cleveland, Ohio, and] Jyne 5-S
Mrs. William Rogers of Akron, June 11

Ohio. Re-examinations.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the fernous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

‘

Now Bus Station and
Ticket Office
Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

Poet Announces Pruitt
Winner Of Bell Award

JOHN PRUITT

Takes Vereen Bell Prize

Army Brass Here Tuesday

BY BOB ADAMS. Dr. Marcus Bloch, L-Hy

President
Col. Wazren A. Thrasher and liis staff will conducti] - P “at
the annual Department of the Army ROTC mspection of oar Sheiets

Davidson's entire military contingent, next Tuesday,
April 1.

The inspectors will begir.:
thetr tour at 8 a.m. with .
briefing from Lr. Col. P. R
Wheaton and then will undertake
a compreinmsive inspection. The
tour will be concluded by the
inspectors giving a critique of
their findimgs: at 3 p.m.

New York 9, N. Y.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W.. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLAS.

Doring tte dey Col. Thrash CO ALOVING
er, representing ¢he commanat wHiee BEST
ing general. XI U.S. Army Ns

Cérps. will meet President Lt
G. Marti and’ have lunch with
members of tire college admim
istrattior.

The thorough inspection re
views cadet leadership, di8o-
pline. and appearance, as wei?
as cadet permanent _ recora’.
During first four drill, there
will Be am inspection of’ the
cadet curps in ranks. In aatit-
tion, clusses and the arnmmrry
will be inspected.

Codi. Thrasher and his _ staff
will aisu inspect training ‘nran-
agement, administrative .rec-
ords, tine rifle range, ama the
flight training program.

Iw previous annual tirspec-
tions, Davidson has comnstent-
ly: recerved the highest: rating
offered.

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI:

SUMMER JOBS

fer STUDENTS

NEW S’64 directory lists 20,000 summer job apen-
igs in 5@ states. MALE ar FEMALE: UnpreceJent-
esx research for students imeludes exact pay’ rates
and job details. Names employers and. their ad
ciresses fbr hizing in industry, summer camps, na-
fonal parks, resorts, atc., ete, etc. Hurmt jobs
@led early: Send two dollars. Satisfaction. guaran-
wed. Send. to: Summer Jobs Directory—P:. 0. Box
13593—-Phoeaix, Arizena.

Montfort Returns
For Vespers Talk

Dr. Russell T. Mbdntfort, for-
mer pastor of dte Davidson
Methodist Church, wilt be guest
minister for the Sunday evening
vespers service.

Now studying under a Dan-
forth grant for an MA degr

%

r Foreign
* Study is for
Language Majors
Only.

in contemporary _ theology: -

specifically the relationship Of course, It’s for them, too.

faith to the Mine arts, Montfurt But It’s also for undergrads In . political science,
holds degrees from Kentucky international relations, economics, » philosophy
Wesleyan College and Duke and some other fields.

We know. Over, half the wen ts there university centers
in Europe eren’t language majors. "re pursuing s'
in their own flelds, and giving them a fresh, European di-
mension—-without interrupting their college careers.
Foreign study may sult you, too. (it isn’t for everyone.)
This is the time of life when the experience of Europe can
mean most. [t will mean most if you use it to deepen and
extend your formal studies.
You might took inte it-and fearn about our programs . ins
nivessity of

cluding a@ new one opening next fall at the

ja ie

Our centers don't offer mere “civilization” courses. They
aren’t cozy little “ghettos” for Americans. Institute pro-
grams immerse you in a great European university as deeply
as your abilities allow. (We supplement and guide your
studies, as necessary, to make sure they satisfy U. S.
requirements.)

FREIBURG @ Reguter university courses at the University
of Freiburg, In the Bleck Forest; teught in German, with tutorials,
For B-average juniors with Intermediste German. Das Deutsche
Jahr: $2,380.° Des Deutsche Semester: $1,605.°

PARIS @ French-taught Honors Program in Contemporary
European Civilization for B-average Juniors (and some top sopho-
mores) with. one year of college French. Academic year: $2,650.°*

MADRID @ Spanish-taught program at the University, for
B-average juniors (and some top so ) with two years of
college Spsnish or one year of college Spanish and two in high
school. Hispanic Veer: $2,610,°

Divinity School. He was award-
ed an honorary DD from Dawid-
son in 396.

After being graduated from
Duke. Montfort served twu pas-
torates before coming to Dav-
idson. During his six year min-
istry here, he was very active
in community and college af-
fairs.

The Methodist Student Fel-
lowship. sponsored by the Dav-
idson Methodist Church, was
begun by Montfort, and it was
during his pastorate that the
Methodist Church built and
moved into a new building.

Montfort is noted for his con-
troversial ideas and for his ef-
forts to make the church rele-
vant to modern society.

Hub

VIENNA @ English or German-taught courses at the Univer.
sity of Vienne for C-plus juniors and sophomores. Previous German
required only for spring semester. European Year: $2,360.° Spring
Semester: $1,605.°

oF Include tuition, intensive language instruction, orientatio
room, most meals, two field trips: tourna trip ocean passage, me

Fer more information, eck your professors ...or write

the Institute § of European Studies
(eectarie 99, Wether Br. © Gpleege, tints cases

