FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1964

Side Lights

BY RICK LOWERY

FAME & FORTUNE...

Davidson College, we are told, enjoys an excellent
reputation as a liberal arts college. I really can't dis-
agree with this judgement, especially when it refers to
a reputation among educators and a terribly local
segment of the general population.

_ _ But quite frankly, people never heard of this school
in New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, etc. Oh, a
few guidance counsellors and some old replants from this
area have heard the word, but other than that Davidson
is like a lamp not lit.

_ I'm from Washington, D. C., and most of the conver-
sation about Davidson in that area is of the variety,
‘Where is it? . . . Oh, yes. Is that Charlotte in South
Carolina or North Carolina?

Even Dean Rusk didn’t help. Some people don't
even know who Dean Rusk is, but those that know are
quite aware that he attended Oxford. Who was the last
innocent bystander (you actually heard) who offered the
information that Dean Rusk attended Davidson?

Why should anyone care if the public is ignorant
about the existence of Davidson? It is toward this ques-
tion that I have been plodding, | believe anyone can see
the individual benefits that would accrue through the in-
crease in the general familiarity of what the Davidson
diploma means.

The question above, however. is even more important:
to this college. Each year the admissions office tells us.
that more and better students are applying to Davidson.
For today this is fine, but the only means toward excel-
lence for a schoo! seems strangely related to competitive
athletics—obtaining increasingly better academic and
personally talented men.

If this college is to get such men, it must compete
against not only Southern liberal arts colleges but against
universities and colleges in both North and South. In
short, for this college to become an excelient school, it
must be prepared to attract the best students through its
faculty, curriculum and reputation. The school must pro-
vide faculty, curriculum .. .

Reputations are made over a great many years and
reflect a general trend, but fame is a funny thing. And
reputation without fame ‘is local. This Christmas 12
basketball plavers, three managers, a couple of coaches
and a publicity department brought Davidson College
into many homes in New England. the Southwest and
places where Davidson had not existed.

Speaking from personal experience, in New England.
I found that people. for the first time since I have travel-
led in that area. asked where Davidson was, not to make’
conversation but out of genuine interest. The first thing!
they wanted to talk about was the basketball team but,
almost always the conversation developed into an interest |
to learn something about the school.

The Davidson basketball team has made this college
famous overnight. Yet, I understand there are mutterings
and questions about whether or not Davidson can handle
such publicitv. I don’t understand these questions. Why
can’t this college handle the publicity from basketball?
Almost without exception I have found that in every
publicity announcement, Davidson basketball and aca-
demics have been tied together. People in other areas
have connected the two together (from my experience).

Davidson still has an admissions committee with its
own procedure. This committee, I believe, will safeguard
the college from the rush of unqualified Northern and
Western students. But why would this college be particul-
larly proud of the fact that only 1000 men apply here
each year? |

How will the added publicity injure this college?
In fact, how can the added publicity do anything but,
benefit the college? If one qualified student comes to
Davidson because his curiosity was whetted by a basket-!
ball team, then the college will have gained something |
more than a sense of pride and identification from this!
basketball team.

The admissions committee may have to work harder; |
Also they may have more from which to select—but I
don’t think they’d mind.

NO NOE...

Tuesday night Lexington, Va.. turned out en masse
to get a look at a winning team. Understandably they
were not for Davidson. Tuesday night the whole cadet
corps at VMI turned out to see a winning team. Under-
standably, they made a lot of noise.

Tuesday night Davidson won its eleventh straight
game, and in doing so raised an interesting question—
-what will a home game be like in Johnston Gymnasium?

This year three games have been played in the cam-
pus gym. At none of these games was the whole student,

Penn,

WHERE'S TEAGUE? Nine,

one picture, that’s the situation Saturday night as Davidson

IMAC BASKETBALL

STANDINGS
Kappa Sigs 20
Phi Gams 2:0
ATO’s 1-0
Phi Delts 1-0
KA’s 2-1
SAE‘s 2-1
Sigma Chis 2-1
Independents 1-1
Betas 1-2
Pikas 1-3
Pi Kapps 0-1
Sigma Nus 0-2
Sig Eps 0-3

Hapless Tigers Fall
In Opening

BY BOB STRAUSER
In what could be a long season for the ’Cat swimming
team, victory came early and decisive. Coach Dwight
Shoe’s squad met Clemson here on Dec. 5 and left the
pool with a 62-33 win and a

Davidson -look the medley-
relay with a time of  4:17.3.
Coach Shoe noted that “Con-
sidering our record is $:09 and
that this was the first meet of
the year, this time was not
bad.” In the 200 free, Jim Grey
and David Grant finished one-
two with times of 2:10 and
2:16.3.

Shoe described the rest of
the meet as “nothing great but
showing promise.” Joe Hensley
took the 50 free in 25.3. and
Randy Hughes todk first in the
200-individual. Bill Jacobs man-
aged a 97 in diving—good for
second place. Other first place
finishers were Jim Stokes (200
fly), David Grant (100 free).
John Alexander (200 back), Jim
Grey (500 free), and Mark Wal-
dron (200 breast).

In the freshman meet several
‘Kitten swimmers came through

body present. The crowds were held down due to the; with more-than-promising _per-

vacation schedules. .

In the near future, The Citadel will play at Davidson
before the whole student body, dates and visitors. The
obvious problems of seats, tickets and crowds are the
worry of the athletic department. Another situation
arises, however, from the conditions of a crowded gym
full of Davidson supporters. This is a simple matter of
courtesy. A visiting r
a respectful treatment. Anything less can only be describ-
ed as “bush.” . ;

Respect is nothing on which you can put your fin-
ger. More accurately there are things which it is not.
Throwing objects or in any way intimidating either of-
ficials or players, it is not. Constant harassment of offi-
cials and coaches by organized cheering sections, it is
not. Having a band play directly behind the opposing
team, it is not. . ;

None of the above “nots” have anything to do with
yelling, cheering, clapping or just saying nothing, but
avoiding them represents a certain attempt to allow 10
men to play a basketball game. .

In South Carolina before Christmas, if all reports
are true, a highly partisan crowd tried to “help” the
Gamecocks beat Duke. The resulting opinions in the
press and among neutral observers as a result of this
game, speak for themselves. _ ;

At the present time Davidson has a winning team
quite definitely of championship caliber. It_ would be
disgusting indeed if the reputation and quality of this
team were given a public whipping due to the infantile
and ungracious behavior of a group of people whose
greatest fault would be that they wanted to win.

OH YES...

Just as the referees deserve the respectful treatment
from all spectators, so does the spectator deserve the
opportunity of watching a basketball game, a game force-
fully and surely called but not made burlesque by the
activities of the official. ;

If the clowning must take place, how about during
time-outs? Or better still, let the players do the clowning.
After all they are the ones playing the game and it’s still
called basketball.

team, its staff and referees demand |;

formances. Rich Holt turned in
a 2:21.27 in the individual med-
ley to break Barry Branch’s
(60) record time of 2:23.3.

According to Shoe, John Helm

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLO

WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETT

Winter

Clearence
SALE

Continues At
Bush Wilson, iD.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

count ‘em, nine baliplayers in
(Staff Photo by McCutchen)

Paladins, Hurricanes, Tigers,
ECC, WVa, VMI Fall
|

—|

stopped West Virginia in the Coliseum by @ score of 93-82.

IMAC Fights

Fates

As Scheduling Falters

At Davidson the month of January has always proven a headache for those! all the way had he not consistently led the Davidson fast
concerned with intramural scheduling and Sam Going, IMAC president, is experienc. break. While Holland was performing his defensive

ing a normal attack of seasonal pains.

As if normal delays were not
enough, the schedule suffered
another set-back Monday night
with the power failure. Partici-
panis in the full-slate of games
for that night ended up dress-

ing by toroh light in the dun-
geon-like darkness of the locker
room.

‘Swimming was postponed last
semester and may have to be
dropped altogether. According
to Going, a date for the meet
will, not be set until the first
TMAC meeting after exams: if
a date is sot. it will definitely
be before Midwinters.

Also to be considered at that
meeting is the scheduling of
handball. It has not been de.
cided how this will be. managed
‘—round-robin, double elimina-
tion. or otherwise. Time will be
an important consideration in
: that decision.

mild upset. ' “The matter at hand, of course.
“is as good as we've ever had js basketball. Originally it had
in. the 100 fly.” Against Clem- been planned to. compleie IMAC
gon. Helm had a 59.8, two sec- play by the end of the basket-
onds off the conference record. pall season, but the holiday-
Steve Barden in the distance exam period has glowed down
free and Lloyd Davidson in the: pniay somewhat. “Some people
100-breast were termed. “very! won't like it.” said Going, “but
good boys.” it looks like-the only way out of

The freshmen won the Clem- this is to play on Saturday and
son meet and were edged out Sunday afternoons.”
in the last relay of the Duke Through the few basketball
meet in Durham. Dec. 6. De-! games played so far. it would
spite generally improved per-| appear that the Kappa Sigs.
formances, the ‘varsity lost de-: Phi Gams and Independents are
cisively to the Blue Devil squad.! the class of the league. These

Next Tuesday the squad goes! three teams have won five of
to Appalachian ‘for a meet; their six games; the oné loss
postponed from Dec. 12. The: came with the upset win of the
Apps were narrowly defeated Pikas over the Independents.

by Wake Forest before Christ- 54-53. Dave Johnson and Bennie
mas and from all reports will] Coxton were missing from the

be : difficult. starting five of the Independ-
Coach Shoe bemoaned the! ents: it is felt in some quarters
fact that his squad is under-| that this may have had an cef-
manned. “We are allowed two| fect.
boys for. each event,” he noted, 1” one-of the best games of
“But we don’t have enough boys
to do so in all the events.” The
meet on Tuesday will complete
the ‘Cats schedule until next
semester.

Meet

the young season. the Kappa!
Sigs downed the SAF’s 55-51 |
after the game had been tied.!
23 all. at halftime: earlier the
Sigs trounced the Pikas 54-16.
“Meanwhile, the Phi Gams. took :
their first.two games with casc.
They used a pressing defense,
and balan¢ed aftack to down-the'
Sig Eps and Betas by more-
than-comfortable margins,

LLL LLL LALLA LLL |

Davidson Scores,
Schedule |

RESULTS TO DATE

Hampden-Sydney 98 — 52
Wake Forest. 66 . 53 |
St. Joseph's 88 - 77,
Ohio State 9 - 73
Jacksonville 121 - 93|
Furman 89 — 63,
East Carolina 105 -. 77.
Pennsylvania 90 - 73 |
Princeton 102 — 68,
West’ Virginia 93° 82,
VMI | 70 — 58!
SCHEDULE
Jan. 11 Va. Charlotte Col.
13 Citadel Davidson
15 Richmond Richmond
25 Wofford Davidson
29 W. Va. . Va.
Feb. 1 VMI Davidson |
4W&M_~ Norfolk, Va.!
7 Ga. South. Davidson
11 Richmond Davidson
13 Furman Furman
15 Duke Duke |
18 E. Carolina Davidson
22 The Citadel Citadel |

CLIGUETUMTUTTATTUANTTAGTETATT TFG, |

Injury-Ridden "Cats
Meet Duke Tonight

BY DAVID POWELL
For the Davidson wrestling team, what promised to

| what has

@ a season of prosperity has suddenly turned into a
season of despair. Opening losses to VMI and Carolina,
injuries and graduation all seem to foreshadow ill for
the Wildcat matmen. With a brief, melancholic comment
Coach Charlie Parker looked to the rest of the season:
“It looks rough from here on out.”

Tonight the 'Cats tangle with from a neck injury. It is not
Duke, an always formidable op- known, however, whether or
ponent—whether in basketball not Nichols will be able to
or wresthing. The match will be wrestle the remainder of the
held at Dunham. season. And Joe Jones, the

Much to Davidson’s disadvan- starter in the 157-pound class,

TTE

tage, there will be two starters
out of action. Dick Wray, 137
pounder whose services will also
be lost at semester when be
becomes a special student, will
not wrestle because of an in-
jury. The Red-Headed Terror,
Hugh Allen, will sub for him.
Sam Glasgow, who showed
promise in the 147-pound class
with a win and a close loss in
his first two matches, is also
out with an injury. With no re-
placement available, the ’Cats
will probably forfeit.that class.
Returning as a starter in the
177-pound class will be Eric
Nichols, who has been suffering

will be lost from the team at
semester when he graduates.

But there have been some
bright spots in the generally
gloomy wrestling picture. Mike
Bisard and Billy Mills, living up
to expectations, have won both
their matches. And others such
as Glasgow have looked good
in their wins and losses.

Following the match with
Duke tonight, the ‘Cats will
meet N.C. State here next Wed-
nesday. The match promises to
be a good one, with the fresh-
men meeting the State fresh-
men before the varsity’s tangle.

PAGE THREE

Side Lights

BY RICK LOWERY

LOOKING BACK

The harrowing holidays turned out to be anything
hut harrowing as the ’Cats rolled to six victories during
the vacation. On December 14, before a packed house,
Davidson caught Jacksonville with a full court press,
rolled up a 16-1 lead in the first few minutes and ended
the game, except for some interesting calculations as to
the possible final score, ranging from about a 300 point
scoring pace to a 200 point clip, finally ending with 123
points. Fred Hetzel scored 40 points despite a 12-minute
cold stretch in the second half to establish this year’s
single game high.

The following Thursday, Furmdn came to town
hobbled by injuries to Larry Peacock and Don Frye. The
Paladins adopted an interesting offensive strategy for
that game. They lined four of their starters including
their pivot man near the half court line and attempted
to isolate Dick Snyder who was guarding David Selvy
(Frank Selvy’s younger brother). Although this pattern
proved mildly successful. Davidson had no real trouble
sweeping Furman off the court.

Next it was East Carolina in Norfolk, and in Coach
Driesell’s own homecoming Fred Hetzel again led the
way with 31 points as the ‘Cats scored another impres-
sive victory.

By this time, rankings in the national polls were con-
sistent and the 7-0 roundballers returned to their homes
for their own rather abbreviated holiday.

On December 30, 11.666 paying fans saw the begin-
ning of a tournament that was disappointing in every
way but two—Bill Bradley and Davidson.

The opening night saw one of the most fantastic
individual performances: ever given, as Bradley scored
46 points in every way imaginable, had an unofficial 11
assists, and entertained his mother. Bradley and very
little else carried Princeton over a disappointing, dis-
organized Texas team. The same night Davidson topped
Pennsylvania.

New Year’s Eve saw another excellent individual
effort, this time turned in by Terry Holland. In one of
the most underrated efforts in a long time, Holland held
Bradley to about 23 points before leaving with six min-
utes to go because of exhaustion. In his evening's work
Holland blocked four of Bradley’s shots and almost com-
pletely held him off the boards. Holland might have gone

magic. Dick Snyder was scoring 21 and Hetzel 24 to lead
Davidson to what many have called its best game since
Ohio State.

Of further interest was the fact that Holland. Hetzel,
Snyder and. Barry Teague were named to the all-tourna-
ment team along with the tournament’s outstanding
player. Bradley. Don Davidson placed sixth in the voting.
None of this came as any great surprise to those who
looked on, for other than Bill Bradley there was only
Davidson. .

Following the Christmas tournament, Davidson pick-
ed up a cheetah, severa! reams of publicity and a win over
West Virginia who was playing what Coach George King
described as their best game of the year. Before the eyes
of Sports Hlustrated, “Big” Bill Ward and Bill Curry.
Don Davidson scored 22 points as only he can score them
(the court’s only 12 inches from baseline to where Dav-
idson stops «working) but again it was the bread-and-but-
ter man Hetzel who scored 30 points, most of them in
critical spots for Davidson's first win over the Mountain-
-eers since anyone can remember. ;

But. it was Tuesday night that Davidson played its
most painful game to date—-painful for the fans. This
time it was strictly the radio as the ’Cats took the road to
Lexington, Va.

Burdened by eight charging fouls and 26 turnovers
(loss of ball without shot), Davidson managed a 12-point
victory. Listening to a game by ear is a wonderful thing.
Especially wonderful when so much of the’ perception of
happened is represented in the statistics—and
such statistics! The initial report contained a total of
108 rebounds which may set a record for a game in which
only 128 points were scored. These same reports con-
tained an inflated number of shots and in general were
none too accurate. The answer seems to be that every-
time a ball was shot, slapped or thrown toward the bas-
ket. it was first a shot and then a rebound. ;

Statistics or not, the "Cats played one of their more
ragged games again marked by the clutch shooting of
Hetzel and the outstanding defensive play of Don David-
son who held Bill Blair to four out of 21 for the evening.
Davidson’s defensive job was emphasized by the cry of
some little voice in the background who kept insisting
that Blair not shoot so much.

Perhaps the most heartening development of the
evening was the performance of two substitutes, Charlie
Marcon and Bill Beerman. Both entered the game In 1
final moments (the point difference had shrunk as low
as four) in the place of the departed Snyder (five fouls)
and Davidson (five fouls). Marcon. no stranger to the
starting five. needs little description. Shooting a fabulous
percentage for the year, Marcon has shown on several
occasions that he has that “something” that will make a

team go.

ANOTHER DAY...

Four members of the Davidson College soccer team
were named before Christmas to the All South Soccer
Team. Those named were Fred Schoen, Glen Hanes, Jan

Brackel and Walter Eckman.
Now Bus Station and

The Hub

Hours — 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet

At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

