FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1964

Side Lights|

BY RICK LOWERY a

THIS WEEK |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE.

| Davidson Romps Twice
g After Falling To W Va

BY TUCKER LAXTON
* : It didn't have to happen. but nonetheless it did. The Wildcats lost a game which
“74 they had won, blown, then tied up. With one second left and the score tied, West
«1 Virginia's Marty Lentz attempted a desperation shot from halfcourt which was batted
down before it reached the rim. Goaltending was consequently called. and the un-
believing Wildcats suddenly found themselves on the short end of a 75-73 score.

In Williamsburg, Va., there is a quaint building
known affectionately by all William and Mary rooters as
“tittle” Blow gym. Famed for its balconies, tom-toms,
ferocious end sections and stunning upsets. Blow gym
was dark Tuesday night.

About one year ago, such was not the case. Davidson
invaded this historic campus a Cinderella sophomore
outfit on its way to a conference championship. But on
this night two guards, Roger Bergey and Dave Hunter,
neither of whom topped five feet ten inches, left Davidson
wounded and beaten. That night Mr. Bergey and Mr.
Hunter continually retreated to half court and swooped
back and forth, looking for an opening, and time after
time the opening came, as these two comparative dwarfs
of the court drove down the line to score a William and
Mary upset.

Tuesday night, the rather modest confines of Blow
gym were escaped and the nationally ranked ’Cats re-
turned for revenge in Norfolk Sports Arena. Lest anyone
gets the wrong idea, the Arena seats 3500 people and
looks like an old high school auditorium complete with
stage. Admittedly, however, the conditions are far better
than in Blow gym.

This year things weren't the same, however, and per-
haps the most interesting part of the game was the play of
Don Davidson. Davidson was handed the job of stopping
an old high school teammate and general Nemesis, Dave
Hunter. (Prutently the game, was billed in Norfolk as
Hunter vs. Hetzel.)

In the first half, Hunter did not score and his total
production for the game was five points, two of which
were netted after Davidson left the game. Defense was

not the only aspect of the game in which Davidson ex-|

celled. In addition, he hit several outside shots along with
a pair of layups to complete probably the finest game of

|

'
i

THIS PICTURE TELLS THE TALE. The
score board reads Davidson 129 (a record)
VMI 91. And the crowd overflowed onto the
floor behind the basket as some of the more

‘Cat Swimmers Surprise
p

With Strong 3-2-1 Record

BY BOB STRAUSER
Coach Dwight Shoe and his small band of ’Cat swimmers seem to have found
sudden prosperity with the new year. Going into next Thursday's meet here with the
University of Georgia, Davidson will carry a 3-2-1 record, having lost only one meet

sensitive and sensible members of the student
body fled the gym for fear of being crushed
to enjoy the game on the tube. (Photo by
McCutchen) '

Chis career.

In addition to Davidson’s performance Fred Hetzel
played one of the most aggressive games in recent
memory. He scored 36 points, hitting everything from
hook shots to 30 foot jumpers, while raking in 17 re-
bounds—which in the opinion of one observer (me) failed
to include several controlled tips and offensive follow-up
shots. I repeat, however, the most impressive part of his
performance was the attitude he displayed throughout
his 35 minute performance. For this was a night when
Hetzel repeatedly battered William arid Mary’s rebound-
ers for one, two and sometimes three shots.

All in all, Tuesday’s game in Norfolk was one of the
finest games of the year and certainly the finest road
performance.

BACK AND FORTH

since Christmas.

The Christmas vacation end-
ed abruptly for the squad in a
meet with ‘Appalachian during
the first week of classes. Origin-
| ally scheduled to meet the ‘Cats
on December 12, the Apps im-
proved their performance very
litle by the delay: Davidson
trounced their Carolina oppon-
i ents 68 39. .

Following a narrow defeat by
American University after the
;exam break, the ‘Cats bounced

back to a 50-46 win over Old
Dominion in Norfolk on January
29. Actually the score was de-
ceiving: Davidson had the meet
sewn up 50-39 going into the
last’ relay. Finally the squad
struggled to a 46-46 tie with an
improved South Carolina team
last Tuesday.

Against Appalachian, Jim
Stokes set a record in the but-
terfly with a time of 2:28. Stokes
swam by himself, as Appalach

To regress for a moment. West Virginia proved one Grapplers Drop 26-5

thing the other evening—rebounding wins games. I thin
the whole story of that game can well be summed up in
the rebounding statistics. _

I believe clearer than anything else these statistics
pointed to the most glowing weakness the ’Cats can claim.
Against top flight competition Davidson must rebound
more aggressively and more proficiently if they are to
survive for any length of time.

In the approaching weeks two ball games stand out
as real tests prior to the conference tournament. Duke,
of course, is one of these and the other will be Furman

To Surprising Pfeiffer

BY JOHNNY CLARK

Pfeiffer’s surprisingly tough grapplers halted Wed-
nesday the winning. streak of Davidson’s wrestling team
at one, winning 26-5 and also ending the Wildcat’s longest

in Greenville. Unfortunately both of these games will bel victory streak of the current season.

layed in the same week following the Richmond game] after falling 21-11 to Duke.
here and fatigue itself could well be a factor before ame| Jan. 10, and 20-15 to North Caro.
week is through. lina State, Jan. 15, in pre-exams
JUSTI CE matches,. Coach Charlie Park-

er’s charges took their first vic-

ld also like to express my condolences to the|tory of the season last Satur-
losers Yn Monday night’s ticket drawing. Fair though it) day. Feb. 1, in Johnston gym-
must have been, justice was not served. Anytime that the| nasium, by —_ overwhelming
freshman members of the student body win nearly 50%|Emory 22-6. Winning 6 of 8
of all tickets, something is wrong. A more equitable solu-! matches, including two forfeits,
tion 1 feel would have been to eliminate the freshmen the Wildcats outclassed com-
and divide the tickets between classes. Something like—) pletely the boys from Atlanta,
60% to be drawn from the senior class, 25% from the| after having bowed 16-14 the day
juniors and 15% from the sophomores. After all, the! before to their cross-town neigh-
senior class has followed the basketball fortunes of Dav bers.

idson from the dark days Pfeiffer’s win, in which Allen,

E SPRATT Mills, and Joe Peel were pin-
—_ ) ned, brought the Wildcats’ rec-
SHORTS HETZEL, JOS ’ . lord to 1-6 and, according to
Congratulations to Fred Hetzel and Coach Driesell| parker, was “one of the worst
whose pictures adorn the cover of the latest copy Of beatings we've ever gotten.”
Scholastic Coach. . Russ Walls’ win in the heavy-
A “— — —” Rick salute to Davidson’s lone colleg-| weight match and - a tie by
iate rooting section in Norfolk Tuesday—Alex Bernhardt: Nichols in the. 177 lbs. bracket
and Larry “Jose” Compton. 1
John Spratt drew his own name
. not lynched—amazing. ;
we The Pikas long ago beat the Independents in frater-
ity basketball. i,
my The swimming team has a winning record and sev-
eral individual records have already fallen. —
Rumor has it that the fire marshall will inspect the
m tonight—good luck.
By Dennis Knight, freshman basketball center,
transferred to Marietta College in Ohio. ; _
Weenie Miller (VMI coach) in a Norfolk intermission
interview commented that he had never seen such pre-
ame excitement in a crowd as he saw here and then
added that this same crowd displayed a remarkable
ount of sportsmanship. .
a Finally to my brother—Dear Jack, the score in Nor-
folk Tuesday could have been a lot worse—I told you so.

Monday night and|

has,

Much discontent has been ex-

STATISTICAL VIEW ... pressed by students, many of
Player FG Pct. FT Pct. RB Avg. Pts. Avg. | whom ordered tickets in Novem-
Fred Hetzel 56.3 78.1 256 14.2 482 26.8 | ber, and who were all sold seats
Dick Snyder 55.3 86.1 106 5.9 292 16.2 {located behind the backboard.
Don Davidson 58.1 66.2 69 3.83 243 13.5 and we just don't have that
Terry Holland 62.7 708 115 64 255 142 | many.” laments Scott. Out of
Barry Teague 47.5 743 46 2.56 146 8.1 | the 2,664 tickets alloted to Dav-
Charlie Marcon 56.7 71.4 34 189 91 5.06 | idson, only 381 are $12 seats, all
Bill Beermann 448 85.7 13 929 50 = 3.571} which ere sold to unde
: Stone 44.1 83.3 22 1.69 45 3.46 ers of Davidson's Century ub.

Com Harkness 12.5 50.0 9 692 5 385 6 wren Club members got
, irst preference, as they have in

Paul Briggs 50.0 58.3 21 1.4 27 a alt of our Colisium games, and
Stuart Burness 50.0 50.0 3 41 3 next we tried to fill requests in
Own Team Totals 55.4 75.3 803 446 1639 91.1 the order in which we received
69.6 619 344 1270 70.6 jthem,” reports Scott. "We

Opponents’ Totals 42.6
SINGLE GAME HIGHS

TP — Hetzel, 40 (Jacksonville, Dec. 14, ’63)

FG — Hetzel, 21 (William and Mary, Feb. 4, 64)
FTA — Hetzel, 20 (Jacksonville, Dec. 14, ’63)
FTM — Hetzel, 16 (Jacksonville, Dec. 14, °63)

RB — Hetzel, 21 (Wofford, Jan. 25, ’64)

created sections for the faculty
and for the students directly be-
hind the goals, and, in my opin-
ion, these seats are better than
those -in the balconies.”

Scott has also received com-
plaints from other conference

ee,

Scott Bemoans Problems
Of Tournament Seating

Davidson’s hosting the Southern Conference basket-
ball tournament, along with the Wildcats’ phenomenal
success on the hardwood, is providing the school’s athletic
director, Dr. Tom Scott, with an abundance of headaches,
no small number of which have been caused by the seat-
ing situation in the Charlotte Coliseum.

were the only bright spots for
Parker in Wednesday's match
at Misenheimer. Parker pre-
ferred not to discuss the contest,
saying only that “they were
good, but not that good’’ and

that he just wanted “‘to forget.”’

Pembroke State will challenge
the Wildcats in their next match,
Feb. 14, and encounters with the
University of Georgia and the
perennial strong soldier boys of
Citadel round out Davidson's
remaining wrestling schedule
for the regular season. Looking
ahead to the Southern Confer
ence tournament, to be held at
Davidson, March 6 and 7, Park-
er sees some hope for the Wild-
cats. ‘'Mills and Bisard have
each lost only twice this year,
and Walls, who has won his last
four matches, is beginning to
look pretty good.”

schools desiring better sections
for their followers. Scott noted
that ‘‘each member school was
given as many tickets as they
could sell, and the four schools
requesting the most tickets were
given the best locations.’

ee as ee ee

Complicating the situation is,
the assertion by the Coliseum
ticket office that it has no tick-
ets, and that it will. put on sale
February 10 only those tickets
that are returned by the con !
ference schools. ‘‘This_ isn't
true,” says Scott. ‘There won't
be any tickets returned, but the
Coliseum has 5.000 tickets to dis-
tribute. including tickets to the
two center sections of the Coli-
seum. I imagine that their best
tickets will go to their regular
customers, and that the tickets
to go on sale Monday morning
will be $10 seats, mostly in the
upper sections behind the
goals."

ian had no entry in the event.

In addition, Randy Hughes broke :

Rich -Holt’s short-lived record
in the individual medley with a
time of 2:21.4, four tenths of a
second under the ‘‘old’’ mark.
Coach Shoe noted particularly
the progress of his medley relay

Five missed foul shots in the
waning minutes were also the
difference. between victory and

: defeat.. The “Cats couldn't miss

in the first half, hitting 12 of 13
charity shots. West Virginia
took an early three point lead,
but Don Davidson cut it quickly
on 2 successive layups. Baskets

: were exchanged until the ‘Cats

ripped away from a 14-14 tie and
took a 26-18 lead. The Mountain-
eers chipped it away and finally
tied it at 38 all. From here Dav
idson went ahead for a 44-38
halftime lead.

The Wildcats look command in
the second half, grabbing an
other cight point lead at 56-48.
Then the swift Mountaineer
guards came alive, led by Ricky
Ray along ‘with center, Tom
Lowry. and got close at 66 63.

From this point on, the ‘Cats.

j missed three field goals and five

foul shots. and West Virginia. -

took a four point lead, 73 69, with
a minute left-to play, Fred Het
izel hit a follow-up, and later
| Charlie Marcon hit a_ crucial
| jumper to tie the score at 73 all.
With five seconds left, West Vir-
ginia brought the ball down and
Lentz’s throw from halfcourt

was slapped away by Hetzel as
the buzzer sounded. Goaltending
was called, and it was all over.
Dick Snyder and Terry Holland
scored 20 and 18 points respec-
tively in the defeat.

In a game played the Saturday
before. Davidson once again dis-
played its awesome power in
crushing Wofford 105-73, It was
a doubly good win for the ‘Cats
because they celebrated the end
of. exams while regaining their
early season strength after close
calls with Virginia and Rich-
mond.

Leading by 30 points with 13:37
remaining. Coach Driesell start-
ed substituting. Bill Beerman
entered the game and demon.
strated a deadly outside jump
shot. While he loosened up the
Wofford zane with six outside
shots, Hetzel, Holland, and Dav
idson added to thé confusion by
picking apart-the zone with. in
side layups.

Rebounding from the West
Virginia defeat, the “Cats met a
good VMI team here in Richard
son Gym on Saturday night. Be
fore a local television audience
and an overflow crowd, David-
son won the game in the first

five minutes and enjoyed them-
selves for the remaining 35. Five
players hit in double figures for
the ‘Cats. including Fred Het-
zel with 31. but BIN Blair's 33
for VMI took seoring honors. In
running to a 129-91 victory, Dav-
idson broke a short-lived high
scoring mark for team and
game.

The following Tuesday night,
the ‘Cats turned in their best
road performance within recent
memory and swept William and
Mary from the floor of the Nor-
folk Arena. Don Davidson came
through with a great defensive
job: Fred Hetzel contributed 36
points and 17 rebounds. Martin
Morris left late in the second
half with 26 points to lead the
William and Mary scorers, The
‘Cats notched their seventeenth
victory by a decisive 111-84 mar
gin. :

‘Tonight Coach Driesel! and his ©
squad try to improve their na-
tional ranking at the expense of
Georgia Southern. Tom Florian.
a highly touted and seemingly
ageless guard, has been leading
the Southern squad in scoring.
Those who remember last year's
game will anticipate no victory
by default.

-

tehm, composed of John Alex. .

ander. Mark Waldron, Jim
Stokes, and Randy Hughes. They
are swimming riow at 4:13: the
school record in the event is
4:07. Also according to Shoc. the
diving of Bill Jaéobs “improves
with every meet.”

The freshman squad has its
first mect since Christmas with
the Appalachian varsity next

Tuesday. Al 5:00 Thursday after: .

noon, the varsity will meet the
University of

Georgia here
at Davidson. “That Georgia
squad,” said Shoe, ‘‘will be

really tough maybe as good as
we've seen.”

ea

RANDY HUGHES recent record breaker,

takes a break for the camera in the caverns

SALUTE: BEN COOK

Because of Ben Cook (B.1.E.

. 1958, M.B.A., 1961), busi-

nessmen in five southern states now benefit from new Dial
Teletypewriter Service. Ben, a Traffic Supervisor with

Southern Bell in Atlanta, su

pervised the mechanizing of

the Operating Center that serves Alabama, Georgia, South
Carolina, North Carolina and Tennessee.

Ben qualified for his latest. position by skillfully han-
dling a variety of other assignments given him by the
company. On one, he supervised three groups of instructors

{

a.
0% :
\o
+ 4
mod

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

a

of Johnston Gym. (Photo by McCutchen)

who train customers in the use of new telephone services.
On another, he was responsible for personnel administra-
tion and planning involving a $250.000 yearly payroll.

On all, he showed ability that
Southern Bell.

will take him far with

Ben Cook, like many young engineers, is impatient to
make things happen for his company and himself. There
are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed
or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE-MONTH
