PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN . FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1964

Aspirants Take Stands oer cero
‘On Campaign Platform

Tues., Mar. 17—Filing for Freshman Advisor. Filing for cheer-
leader positions with Head Cheerleader.

Wed., Mar. 18—Filing for Freshman Advisor. Filing for cheer-
leader positions with Head Cheerleader.

Thurs., Mar. 19—Speeches in Assembly by the four candidates for
the Presidency of the Student Body. Voting for
Student Pody Officers (except President) and

2. Either abolishment.or com- few votes. I am in favor of fur- Honor Court.

What are the three main facilitated by exchange of ideas

e planks of your platform? with other area student coun- plete overhaul of the system of ther consideration of this change Fri., Mar. 20 —Presidential election plus other Student Body

(Specifically, not just to bet- cils, and some of the costs de- freshman regulations. and others which would serve and Honor Court runoffs.

fer student-faculty relation. frayed in the same manner. A 3. Establishment and publica- to fe-vitalize our campus elec- Mon., Mar. 23—Final Student Body Officers and Honor Court
Ps ships or work for a healthier studerit should never have to tion of .@ campus commanity tiors. runoffs, if necestary.

school spirit.) resort to sleep in order to make code i.e.. something to clear up 3. ¥ am in favor of taking the Tues., Mar, 24--Filing for Student’ Council Offices except candi-

BOSTON chapel bearable. ambiguities and misunderstand- work of the student. council vut date for Freshman Advisor,

1. Open elections allowing for 2. The council should take. an ings in présent faculty and stad- from hehind the closed doors of Wed., Mar. 25—Filing for Student Council Offices except candi-

° organizational support and soli- active interest In the ‘‘under- ent body rules, etc. the meeting room and giving date for Freshman Advisor.

the student body at large am Thurs. Mar. 26—Speeches by YMCA Presidential candidates. Vot-

allowing vote swapping. faculty approach to the problem 1, The establishment of the open opportuntity to function as ing for officers of YMCA, Freshman Advisor,
2. Election of NSA representa- offers no positive incentives to Student Council as the primary #9 integral past of its own rep- ; publication editors, and cheerleaders.

tive by student body. study. Perhaps the council could coordinating body on this cam- "eSentative stutient government. Fri.. Mar. 27 —Final Freshman Advisor and cheerleaders run-
3. A determined effort to gain facilitate cooperation Getween pus, through a Presidential Co. This can be accomplished, I offs, if necessary. ; ;

permission for the student body the students and the vocational ordinating Committee set up to feet througty the appointment of, Tes. April %7—Voting for Student Council Offices.

citation for candidates. but not achiever’: problem. The present JACKSON

president to attend Davidson Col- guidance office. Also. a volun- insure efficient contmuniecation contmittees on winch both coun- Wed.. April 8—Student Council Offices rumoffs, if necessary.
Thurs., April 9—Student Council Offices rumoffs, if necessary.

lege Trustee meetings in order tary tutorial program migft be and functioning. cil and non-counci} members

F

4/to present student opinion.

| +e

(Photo by A. Kennedy)

CAPT. DONALD CAMPBELL
Eyes Marksman (William Tell) Forrester

Capt. Campbell Finds
No Time Like Present

“You're on your own time."
Apparently Davidson graduate
Capt. Donald M, Campbell in-
terprets this military cliche as
“My time is not my own.” but
he says it with a grin.

Since returning to Davidson
us MS II instructor. Campbell
has assumed extra-curricular
responsibility far beyond the
call of duty. Coaching both rifle
and football combined with un-
faltering support of all Wildcat
athletics comprise but some of
the captain's contributions to
the campus. Whenever possible
he assists the cadet special
forces contingent. and in addi-
tion, is an active member of the
local Lions’ Club.

As a platoon leader and then
assistant $3 at battalion level,
he served 32 years in Germany
with the 2nd Armored Division.
Campbell returned to the U.S.
just prior to. the ‘‘Wall Crisis’.

Commenting on the improve-
ments evident in ROTC since he
graduated, Campbell stated,
“The 300 percent increase in
number of corps seniors speaks
for itself." He’s particularly im-
pressed with the flight program
and the special forces manuev-
ers as contributions to the im-
provement.

Teaching MS II's requires
four hours. Monday through
Thursday, with most afternoons
plus Friday devoted to paper-
work and forms. No small part
of his ‘‘free time’ during the
day is occupied with other .peo-
ple’s problems—cadets search.
ing for a missing roster or DAV:
IDSONIAN photographers want-
ing rifle team pictures, The cap-
tain's patience. interest in peo-
ple. and his enthusiasm for the
military appear to effectively
counter what one might call
“harassing the troops.”’

STUDENTS MARCH

IContinued From Page One)
‘purpose of the march would be
to show the entire nation that
there are some white people in
the South, as well as Negroes,
who are for the civil rights leg-
islation. “‘The only reason that
we are petitioning President
Johnson is because the people in

i ome from all over Sure to cover hundréds of peo-
this thing ¢ ple marching through Charfotte’s
streets in the original plan. how-
ever.

the country: he is a point around
which we can all unite.”

Polley said that he under-
stood the Charlotte mayor's
concern about the march, but
he sald that he expected no
violence. “The mayor has of-
fered police protection, and.
Ym positive no violence will
oceur. The march should not
set race relations back in
Charlotte; it is not aimed a
Charlotte. We are not trying
to desegregate any facility or
anything like that.’

Howell explained that the
march from Davidson to Char-
Yotte had been called off ‘‘be-
cause of the danger of violence
on the road and the fact that any
incidents there might jeopardize
the main march in Charlotte.
We felt that anything that might
jeopardize the main march
should be compromised. We did
not cancel the walk to Charlotte
because of any pressure: I doubt
if anyone in Charlotte knew
about that aspect of our demon-
stration.”

Mayor Brookshire explained
why he feared the march: ‘‘As
you know, Charlotte has been a
leader in race relations in the
South. If there happened to be
an incident, it would set our
cause back here. I can’t guar-
antee them complete safety: but
if they insist on marching. we'll
provide safety for them as best
we can.”

Brookshire then seized on
what he apparently felt was his
last chance to halt the march
by esking a DAVIDSONIAN
reporter fo try to influence
Howell to accept Martin’s al-
fernate plan. “Do you have
any influence with Joe
Howell?” he asked. ‘‘If so, !
would tike for you to try and

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

reason with him and see if
the plan his president sug-
gested won't appeal fo him.”
The mayor said that he could
insure full radio and TV cover .
age if Martin's plan is followed
because. “I have many friends
with the Charlotte news media.”
He admitted the press would be

FERGUSON

existing chapel periods should
be used for the best advantage

and making a concerted effort
to obtain top-notch speakers in
the fields the students prefer.

set up.

2. Further elections revisions. will participate, rater than the
3. The council shoufd make a 4 complete sepatatior of Scad- old practice of mainvaining com-
1. At the present time abolition complete re-evaluation of its as- ent Council (i.e., stutient bedy mittees composed’ omy of coun-
of chapel is highly improbable, Sociation with NSA and‘its effect and student counell pusitions) cil members. Througtt this pro-
no matter how much the student on this campus. The results of and Honor Court categortes is a cedure buth the’ studen? council
i this re-evaluation should’ be pre- highly feasible change of whief and the student’ Bouy as a whole

body wants it. Therefore. the sented to the student botfy, and’ 7 en in favor. Under’ souly a will benefit: the: student coun-
the student body allowed to as- system, a person would have to cil through the interested effort
sess the value of continued af- decide which branch of studkne and representative opinions of
of the student body. This could Should tite student body elétt to government he intended’ to’ em the non-council contmittee mem-
be accomplished by polling stud- continue its affiliation with'NSA ter, and te would not then’ be bers; and the student body
ent interest in various fields | "ould seek to better utilize the atte to become a candidite. im through their closer conneetion

opportunities offered by the or defeated in his chosen branch:

ganwatior.
HEFFNER

This choice of speakers could be NSA.

Dr. Buttrick Plans Series
Of Five Lectures Here

Dr. George A. Buttrick will deliver five lectures on Christiam Faith and Con» tudent Conference on Existen-

BY BILL FOSTER

This was a change over-whtchr: ledge of the workings of their
this year’s Council spent’ many’ representative government.
1. Contiraed affiliation with: tours, only to have the proposal
miss passage by the margirtof’a:

temporary Ethics as this year’s second Reynold'’s Lecturer Sunday through Wednes-

day of next week.

Dr. Battrick, past Otts Lec. Church in New York City.

turer here at Davidson, brings
a wide variety of experience in
the field on which he will lec
ture. He was Plummer Profes-
sor of Christian Morals at Har-
vard University and served as
preacher to: the University.
Prior to mis work at Harvard
he was for 28 years pastor of the
Madison Ave. Presbyterian

protection of the marchers. “We
have no jurisdiction in this mat-
ter,” he sad.

Hawkins emphasized that he
has no leadership in the march,
other thaw the making of ar-
rangements for protection. ‘‘Thi's
march has been entirely organ-
ized on tite part of the college

students involved. I will march
with them. but that is about all
that I will do in this area. 1
want to: say that Saturday will
be a goed day for Davidsom It
will pue you in line witht other
colleges that have been outstrip-
ping yuu in the area of: rage re-
lations”

Cunningham told THE DAV-
TDSOQNIAN that he was. im favor
of the objectives of the march-
ers, but not their way of carry-
ing trem out. ‘I am for the Civil
Rights Bill." he saut “But |

Later he said, “I didn’t feel
free to talk with Joe myself. I
was afraid that he might feel
that I was meddling. But if you
can persuade him to call me
and talk with me. I would be
most happy.’ He gave this
reason for using Martin as a
go-between in his communica-
tion with the rights group.

Howell did call Brookshire the
next day. He said that he told
the mayor, “ ‘I think since you
have made such fine progress in
Charlotte. the march should be
another step forward in this area
for race relations.’ "

A spokesman for the Charlotte
Police Dept. said that the march
was perfectly legal. “We will
have police with them all the
way, but we're not expecting any
trouble. This is supposed to be
a peaceful march.” Thus the
professionals on keeping the
peace seem to agree with Polley
that there will be no trouble
over the march. The police said
that Dr. R. D. Hawkins, a local
Negro civil rights leader, had
made all. arrangements with
them.

Hawkins. when contacted. said.
“T have made .all the arrange-
ments for these kids. I made
them due to the fact that this
is my city, and I wanted to be
courteous. I. would do the same
for any group that wanted to
demonstrate in Charlotte. My
prime concern is to cut down any
chance of violence.”

PRIZES:

tape Recorder

raph

WHO WINS:

Alpine or Paxton.

Hawkins said that he had con .
tacted the FBI, as well as the RULES:
police, to provide protection for 2

the marchers. An FBI spokes-
man denied that his agency
would take an official role in the

closing time.

Charlotte, N. C.

His Vespers sermon will per-
tain to “The Knowledge of
God,” to be followed by his
Monday chapel appearance on
“What Is Exisfentialism?’’
“Marxism and the Christian
Faith” will te fire subject of
Tuesday's ctapef. Each of
these addresses wif be follow-
ed by the customary coffee

feel that it'15 a hetle late now
for demonstrations. I would like
to see us roillup oor sleeves and
accomplish: sonre constructive
work in the:area of rights.”
Cunningttann pwaised Martin
for his hansiling ef the situation
here at Dauidtson. “TI don't think
he shoulth exert any pressure
sinoe the maralt is not any vio-
lation of: the cullege’s laws. I
certainly, Have aut attempted to
influence: the president to act in;
any way: on tits matter. I did
talk with him, and he made it
clear tew he: tit.” ‘
Cunningham said that
mareta wouldi prabably set race

howr:

Wednesday morning in a vol-
untary chapel period to be con-
ducted in the Morrison Room,
Dr. Buttrickt will take “A New
Look. at: Science and Religion."
The coffee hour will be combined
with the lertune.

Wednesday evening Dr. But-
trick will complete his lectures
wittnamadiiresa an “The Biblical
View. of. Man."’ Details will be
announced concerning time and
plaze:

Througtwut hrs stay Dr. But-
trick’ will’ be esting at various
fraternity: houses on the court
foc- informal’ discussions with
stexiénts..

Dr. Bultriak® served as edi-
tor-in-cttief aff the lnterpre-
ters Gille; cnnsidered by
; wrany’ sciiolaes thre best sum-

‘mary of avdern biblical:
scholarship avaifable. Jus! re-
‘oantl He fulfilfed the same:
| positiem witf The Interpreter’s .

Olctiaery of the Bible.
Among the many books he has
blished are Prayer, Faith and

Eduestion, So We Believe, SH
th] we Pray, Sermees Preached im
@ University Church, and Christ

relatiuns. in Chacioxte back only! ang History.

if there were violence along with
it. ‘IZ, there ip. violence. ['m sire

that: geople who are against .in-|/'

tegnation would find themsedves
vindicated.”

-/ IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP

1ST PRIZE WEBCOR Stereophonic High Fidelity
2ND PRIZE WEBCOR Stereo High Fidelity Phono-

Prizes will be awarded to any recognized Group or
individual submitting the largest number of empty
packages of Marlboro, Parliament, Philip Morris,

Contest open to qualified students only.
Empty packages of Marlboro, Parliament,
Philip Morris, Alpine or Paxton must be sub-
mitted in order to qualify.

Closing date, time and locetion will be an-
nounced in your newspaper.

No entries will be acceptable after official

Get on the BRANDWAGON ... it's lots of fun!

Refreshment anyone?
Game goes better refreshed.
Coca-Cola! With its lively lift, big bold taste,
never too sweet .. . refreshes best.

OpensHere

. pher: Albest Camus will bz pre-|.

Sotties ander the authority of The Coca-Cota Company by:

@oca-Cola Bottling Company of Concord
Concord, North Caroline

“Batten down” a
‘ “button down” shirt

by GANT

with and more compiete Rnow-

Philosophy
Conclave

The Davidson Philésophy De-
partment is sponsoring its first

ualismr beginning tomorrow
morming at 9 a.m. in the Cin-
ninghium Fine Arts Bullding. |

Participating will be small
groups of students front UNT;
Women's College. Queens Col-|
lege and Davidson. Duke, ortgin- |
ally slated to come. was [forced
te sancel its two delegates. ,

Registration will be condieted’
ffom $10 am. preceding” the}
first session. At this time, af
paper on Existentialist philoso:
sented’ by Bill Ferris, fotlowed]
by a critical analysis of thef}
paper by Mike Harrington of |;
Davidsor znd Charles Watsorr of|
UNC: At noon the second’ ses-
side will convene with aa panet
d&oussiom om the topicc “Can
Eaistentialism Provide a Basis
foz an Eibic?” .

After a break for Junth at
12230, Piil Lewis of Dgatdaon
wall present a paper on Mesleau-
Ponty: Criticism will be canduct-
eal by George Williams of David-
son ami Thomas Southall off
‘ONC,

A Uneek for coffee in the Art
Studio: wilt be followed by the
final session, in which another
student panel will discuss “‘Exis-
tentiaiism: Protest or Philoso-
phy?” The conference will close
with dinner at 6 p.m.

and yoo'll find a mew world of “shirt
pleasare” in these new TRUE Ivy:
Styldd@ Gant Shirts..

Gant fér dresss......

b%&t6n-down, batiste oxford, short:
ieee in colors of. bile, maize, linen,
whe ooxsoliti tones.

”

Stripes 69>

“ange BONO “enue 6G Otqrteshp Tiese- Gree
wanes lego torramn Tue CHEET GF Tae COGtatRES

Gant for sports ...

button-dawm short sleeve sport shirts
in bold club stripes, wind gwpane
plaids andi table-cloth checks.

6.95 to 8.95

Corbin Stacks

14.95 fo 19.95

DOWN TOWN 3RD. FLOOR
NATURAL SHOULDER SHOP
and
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER STORE
park directly behind store on West

4th. St. and ask for free parking at
Tate-Brown’s 126 S. Tryon St.

DOWNTOWN 126 S. TRYON ST.
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER

Park Road Store Open Mon., Thurs. & Fri. 'Til 9 p.m.

TATE-BROWN’'S

CHARLOTTE

DOWNTOWN 126 S. TRYON ST.
PARK ROAD SHOPPING CENTER

Use Your Charge Account

