|

;

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1964

| Benchwarming |

By BILL BRIGGS
Assistant Sports Editor

A TASTE OF VICTORY

Writi
been played is about like scratching a place that doesn’t
itch. It seems pointless.

Pointless or not, | think that last week's football
game is the only sporting news that deserves any ex-
tensive comments t now.

Considering | didn't even go to the game, | feel a
little like a traitor writing about it. And since I wasn’t

there, an objective, eye-witness account might be a bit]

|

a

of a farce, so I'll try a little different angle.

There was no doubt that Davidson would lose last
Saturday. Heckard was out. His replacement Jacobsen

about a football game a week after it has

PAGE FIVE

Sigs Cream Taus;
Chis Take Second

By PALMER KIRKPATRICK, JR.

Davidsonian Sports Writer

A show of well-balanced strength enabled the Sigma Chi’s to move into the

| second slot in the flickerball standings by smashing three opponents this past week,

but the unbeaten Kappa Sigs continued to steam roller their way to the top.

In what may have been one
of the highest scoring games in
recent IMAC history, the Phi
Gams out-tallied the Independ-
ents by the incredible score of
65-43. Instead of having been
what obviously seemed to have

ins intercepted a key  pass| Ronnie Hunt was the most
which turned the tide of the| outstanding Delt, having scored
game. j all three TD's and being cred-

The SAE’s proved that the| itted with a great pass defense
law of averages means nothing| performance. Bill Ross and
when they won their second; Mike Thurmond were outstand
Straight game in sudden death] ing for the Delts and Gene Far-

had been considerably less than Fasc in his only been an offensive game, the} play off, this time against the; ris was instrumental in the
a ance (two plays) as a varsity quarterback. . The comments rather put the credit; Phi Gams. With the score Betas’ offense.
dcats had been considerably less than wiid in all their | to “slack defense’ on both standing at 7-7, the SAE's out-| She Oiis th: Wat tie
games since the Mississippi College opening victory. sides. |gained the Phi Gams in the| Prien by ncn of 48-13 pon
Furman was hu On the other hand tight de-| Playoff to gain the victory. |. fast start in which the Pi

ry for a win. Comparative scores

showed that Paladins had beaten a full strength PC team ‘ f Key | George Brewer caught a 10
a re * ense was the keynote in the seorge Brewer caugnt a Kapps pulled a quick 7-0 lead
a managed to stop the ’Cats with an injured quarter- fhe ~ a || Pika-Beta marathon in which | yard pass and scampered 30 a has caeeial the came
ack, — lithe Bet emerged victorious! yards to give the SAE’s. their -
Se > Simat ne as Ch ~ : thereafter. Randy McKnight
You could have gotten three touchdowns and Dav- eee note by Smith): | 6. A Jack Sherrill to Mac! longest gain in the playoff. was credited with three of the

PHI GAM MACKEY McCLELLAND BOXED BY SPE’s

idson with any betting man. There was no way... no! Otts pass about midway »| Undoubtedly the’ most danger
y 8 y | Gams Manage To Squeak By For IMAC Win Te fees eet Sn eas Gans the walk eas est
way. rst half gave the Betas the/ US game of the week was the| I ther IMAC a tt
- ! only re of the game. Jim | SAE-Phi Delt battle from which a ae eae

But something happened. I’m not sure what; I doubt

ar Sigmé ~hi's owne the Pikas
the Delts emerged victors 13-7 Sigma Chi's downed the Pikas

anyone is. From what I've heard and read, apparently limmons was noted as standout $67. Basil Hicks. tniercented
someone forgot to tell the football team that victory for the Betas on defense. | Mike Booe ‘suffered a fractured] + pi peicws' passes and
was impossible. ra! e@ @ Hl n S The ATO‘’s were greatly out-| “"!' and” Randy’ McKnight 4 non ; j "gist ig te e
S ‘ * ree He I sreau) ad : : é z g Stance ) i

1 missed the most inspired, spirited effort by a;! maneuvered: in a’ battle with| ™!"0F Concussion in this de bed nagy: 4 pcg oo

‘ ince I. came ; , “eeaige Spiess: ~~ Ifensive fight. The Phi Delts| ee ee oe
Davidson football team since | came to Davidson two e Kappa Sigs as the league] ©" !Ve "8 ya leame on a Briggs to. Larry

years ago.
No matter what the need for scholarships, a revital-

Wildkittens 14-7 Loss

leaders tr

impled the ATO’s 40-6,
Buddy DuBose, along with Ray

made both their s«
returns

ores ‘on punt
| Outlaw pass.

ized program, or an easier schedule some things can’t | mond Garrison, Larry Compton,| 2". further action, the Phil. —_— gee a
be entirely ge so aia last Saturday, when Davidson's freshman football, praised his boys for this effort | field. They scored in the third) Jamie Bryant, and Tommy ae the eg oe A Gin sine St cee rege
eve knew that we couldn't. team lost a squeak ard-| saying. “ ink it s : welauarter on a of-vs snhh Athen tho key WO hallt me Delts scored the first time| > t.é

rybody e ost a squeaker to Gard iying I think it shows we) quarter on a 25-yard pass from| Reams were the key KS ball they had possession of the ball. | last few seconds of play by the

Nothing should be taken away from the glory that

ner Webb in Cherryville last

weren't about to give up.”’

| Billy Taylor to Kim Johnson.

movers. The ATO's made their

Then Gene Farris scored one, SPE’s was not enough to off-

the footballers earned last weekend. Furman outman-| Saturday by 14-7, although the| The Wildkittens finally got! Pete Glidewell kicked the extra} only tally on a short pass
3 ) ‘ t ally u tré y tally é pass from ages ea aeiriegs: (Pe 8 Peee : s,
ned us, outstaffed us, out-scholarshipped us, but they! Wildkittens dominated most of moving in the second half, push-| point and the Kittens were back| Pat Hubbard to Dave Town-|{" the Betas. The se a nol sl ga ee
couldn’t outplay us. the game. ing Gardner Webb all over the! in the ball game. send. swapped hands several times) sara
eee ta” ae aiid : ss : : before the Delts put another} The Kappa Sigs. rolled over
Commented Assistant Coach A — sone eo team] touchdown across the goal. Lat-| the KA‘s by a score of 43-6.
i . P P 3 sy). ia ; Came from: behind to edge out]... ; RE re 4 stae hina: ; P c ailback
Victory is a sweet thing — anywhere. Football vic: | 29°@!¢ Campbell, “If we could i efty hy w ‘by d: |‘ — sawlieed er in the game, the Betas had; Buddy Durham, KA tailback,
tory at oe. Ata is copecially ak I'd forgotten what have played the first 10 min arro Ss qua 9° _ h improved Sigma Phi first down and 10 to go on the| found it difficult to compete
it was like utes over again, we would have 3 mm —, offense “yin In an e Delts’ 9 yard line but were un-| with. the Sig protege, Buddy
: . ‘ Pepe arg killed them.” oe ad ensive game a 1 way, the able iin Spare ‘
dust the hope of victory is like electricity in the| ee “em ewcomers emain SPE’s were leading 25-21 at) mene e. Soote. ret ‘iii

air. At Carolina, Duke, State, even Wake Forest, some-| as jt was Gardner Webb : : : Sade seed
thing can be felt in the pregame atmosphere that has came out fired up and scored F Phil Squier, a 6-0 senior, and sophomores Barry St. gag Bly ls
always been missing in Davidson. A hope for victory,| the first time it got the ball. Clair and Dick Byrd are the newcomers to Davidson's | half tor covers quick touch
an inexplainable static that prickles your skin with some-| gi); jn the first quartter, a| 196465 basketball squad, numbering twelve after final a isles
thing other than the crisp, fall weather. A hope that| Gardner webb receiver got be-| CUtS by head coach Lefty Driesell. : eee of
makes people really want to see a football game. We've hind the secondary and hauled Squier is playing for the first time since he was a eng a a ~
all forgotten what this is like. in a 30-yard pass to set up their| Starter on the 1961-62 freshman team, the best in David-| 50° juae ii’ Same wih the
So we were surprised Saturday. And happy and) second gu:ck score. son history. Byrd and St. Clair were starters on last|"™ Dells in ~ _” =
proud to be surprised. Still we all long for a time when | year’s Wildkitten contingent. Seog Rem — een ew Bas Metien onl
victory won't be a surprise, and it’s anticipation can| In the second quarter Gard le The —, oes = composed of six seniors, - Ber oo lh yon a
hover. over the campus like that skin-prickling static. ner Webb threatened again, but! four juniors, and two sophomores and have an average | ‘Te’ ‘he frst tally on ane H .
. —_— ae oe oe ' . | Davidson dug in. and stopped | hetate of just under e’3"" 6 sy Bonga agai ringer Ticket Office
But regardless of what we feel will happen, we can-| them cold-on a tremendous goal The freshman team was narrowed to eight by frosh| (© ©) Dells lee at the ha a | : ‘
not deny 4 belittle what has happened. tt was great | line stand for four downs from| coach Terry Holland. Pinky Hatcher, George Leight,| '*” until the  Chi's began to Hours 9:00 A.M. Till 9:00 P.M.
é ithree yards out. Campbell! and Tommy Clayton are the only non-scholarship players | Ut for weak spots. Star Ev

to win, especially over Furman.

Brakel Scores 4 In 5-0 Win

Booters Kick Campbell

By MIKE MOOTY
Davidsonian’Sports Writer

Davidson’s soccer team upped its record to 6-2 last
the Campbell College roundballers 5-0.

Playing their first night game a fine job,’ he commented.
before a crowd of 1500, the “You could single out every
Foglemen gave the cheerlead- man on the team and say he
ers from Buies Creek little to played a great game. ‘After
shout about. Led by amazing much coaxing, the modest Bra-
Jan Brakel, the Wildcats made kel accounted for the victory
perhaps their finest showing of with a terse, ‘“‘We just out-
the year. hustled ’em.”’

Brakel upped his record goal The roundballers will go after

total to 24, pumping in three
goals and a penalty kick. Bob
Bethel. added the other point
for the ‘Cats. Junior fullback
Gus Brown also turned in a
fine performance for the Red
and Black.

John Barnhardt played a fine
game at the goalie spot, saving
nine shots and a penalty kick.
The Davidson goalies, Barn
hardt and Kem Anderson, have
been exceptionally tough in the
past two outings. blocking three -
penalty shots between them.

Fogleman accredited the vic
tory to a fine team effort, “The
whole team hustled, he said.
“We went after them the entire
match.’ He was quick to. point
out Brakel’s fine performance
however, and added that “Bob |
Bethel played the finest game |
of his career.” e

Campbell's Venezuelan ace.
Robert. Gentilini was thwarted
the whole night by the David-
son defense. The Wildcat of-
fense pressed hard through the
entire match, forcing the Camp: -
bell goalie to pull out 21 saves.
Fogleman summed it up, “We
played a fine game, both
ways.”’

The Campbellites, previously
boasting a 6-1 record, proved
to be a rough opponent. David-
son suffered several minor in-

No one was seriously injured.
however, and the team is ex-
pected to be at full strength}

next Friday. Rendezvous in

|

Tuesday night. shutting out |

St. Andrews this Friday night |
in what should be an easy
match for the ‘Cats. In fact
it is becoming more, apparent
that Coach Fogleman is not be-
ing overy optimistic in saying
“If we hustle like we have in
the last two matches, it will]
take a tough team to beat us."

on the yearling squad.

Varsity Roster
Barry St. Clair, 6-1, 165, soph., Princeton, W. Va.
Dick Byrd, 5-10, 160, soph., Richmond, Ind.
Barry Teague, 5-11, 160, sr., Madisonville, Ky.
Charlie Marcon, 6-3, 190, sr., Bethlehem. Pa.
Phil Squier, 6-0, 165, sr., Branchville, N. J.
Fred Hetzel, 6-8, 230, sr., Washington, D. C.
Stuart Burness. 6-4, 200, jr., Scotch Plains, N. J.
Dick Snyder, 6-5, 201, jr., North Canton, Ohio
Don Davidson, 6-5, 190, sr., Salem, Ohio
Ronnie Stone, 6-3, 180, jr., Kernersville. N. C.
Paul Briggs, 6-5, 180, sr., Reidsville, N. C.
Cam Harkness, 6-3, 175, jr., Acton, Ind.

Freshman Roster

Scott Sinnock. 6-3, 175, Newcastle, Ind.
Pinky Hatcher, 6-0, 175, Columbus, Ga.
George Leight, 6-4, 185, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Rodney Knowles, 6-9, 225, Greenville, N. C.
Cecil Clifton, 6-1, 158. Avondale Estates, Ga.
Bobby Lane, 6-4, 188, New Orleans, La.
Tommy Clayton, 5-11, 155, Madisonville, Ky.
Tom Youngdale, 6-10, 230, Peru, Ill.

Charlotte at

Singing goes better refreshed.
And Coca-Cola — with that special zing

things

rs |

sick Po page Bil oe ene ‘Staff Photo by Smith | but never too sweet — He’s carrying her away in his dashing
| which discouraged good footing. pg set ver fase refreshes best. ADLERS but he’s clean-white-sock.

just the same

‘They're headed for the primrose path but they'll wind up picking flowers. That's
knowing what to do and when to do it. That’s being clean-white-sock. An attitude
that colors everything you do no matter what color your socks. And you get it only
from Adler, Here all feet wear the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock. Clean

La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy

La Roma

Fogleman threw a new strate- |
gic wrinkle into the offense by}
moving Brakel to the inside po-
sition to open up the defense. |
“This added a great deal to our}

offense punch.” he “age Ris anti white or in eighteen colors. $1, me ao.er ComPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO. A Division of Burlington Induetten
exceptionally fine evening, Fo- | 1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road : "
Henan ha gohing bat pie|| Phone 3762576 Charette, N.C. Rush Wilson Lid.

