FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964

Unbeaten Sigs

To Fifth Straight Crown

By PAUL MARION ed to aa 58-2 record over

Davidsonian Sports Writer the past five years.

The Kappa Sigs captured After crushing the Betas by a
their fifth t flicker- 63-14 margin, the Sigs stopped
ball championship yester- the Sig Eps 33-20.
by finishing their third Led by all-star tailback Buddy
straight undefeated season. DuBose, this year’s team was
This year’s 12-0 record Composed of Joe Jelks and Roy
pushed their winning streak Garrison at halfbacks, Tommy
to 42 games and contribut- Reams and Larry Compton at

By JOHNNY CLARK
Davidsonian Sports Editor

A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION

Regardless of what one thinks is wrong with David-
son’s program, no one can deny that something is wrong.
In The DAVIDSONIAN of October 30, I suggested
several changes that could be made to improve the sit-

ar

uation. Perhaps there are other alternatives. The im-
portant consideration is that the problems should be
studied and solved. I don’t think Coach Dole or anyone
else will deny that improvement is needed — disagree-
ment revolves around the question of what changes are
necessary for improvement.

Davidson has been ambling along, letting the prob-
lem ride for too long. Concrete steps toward solving it
need to be made.

A step in the right direction would be the forma-
tion of a committee by President Martin to study the
program. The committee should include representation
from the students, the faculty, and the alumni, perhaps
two from each group.

Such a committee could thoroughly investigate all
aspects of the football program, with the investigation
including interviews of Dole, Athletic Director Scott,
and various members of the football team. The inter-
views could determine these individuals analyses of the
problem and their proposed solutions.

The committee could weigh these proposals with in-
formation obtained in other aspects of the investigation
and with their own opinions derived from a study of the
situation.

At the completion of the study, the committee could
then submit a report to the Trustees’ executive commit-

tee with an analysis of the causes of the football problem |

and proposals for removal of the causes.

Such a report might or might not be acted upon,
but it would certainly present more than just a surface
view of the football situation and would give the trustees
a substantial basis upon which to act if they chose to do

so.
SIGMA DELTA PSI & A HAIRY BACK

Track Coach Heath Whittle reports that he would
like to see more students try out for Sigma Delta Psi, the
national honorary athletic fraternity. For admission,
students have to meet certain standards in the 100 yd.
dash, 120 yd. low hurdles, mile run, shot, high jump,
broad jump, football punt, baseball throw, handstand,
hand spring, rope climb, 100 yd. swim, and chin vault.

A nt automatically mes a member when
the requirements are met. Anyone interested should
see Coach Whittle.

George Solley and Billy Taylor were elected by the
squad Tuesday as co-captains of the freshman football
team.

Roger David says that he has never been mentioned
on a sports page before. I don’t know what it has to do
with sports, but he probably has more hair on his back
than anyone on campus.

“YOU CAN’T USE MY MATS”

For years the IMAC has been sanctioning the some-
what pointless paradox of allowing freshmen to compete
in intramural wrestling, swimming, and track while they
are on the corresponding freshman teams, and prevent-
ing frosh football, basketball, tennis and baseball players
from participating in the related IMAC sports.

This year’s Council decided to correct the situation
by preventing freshmen out for wrestling, swimming, and
track from participating in these IMAC sports.

There are several justifications for such a move.
The freshmen out for frosh teams naturally are in better
shape because of their training in practice; it isn’t fair
to prevent some freshmen from participating while bar-
ring others; the primary concern of intramurals is to
provide opportunity for athletic participation by those
not on the college teams; domination of tournaments by
freshmen who will later compete on the varsity squads
tends to lessen somewhat the interest in these tourna-
ments. :

The major objection against preventing those of
freshman teams from playing is the argument presented
by wrestling coach Charlie Parker that such a move
would cause fraternities to keep pledges from going out
for freshman teams so that they could compete in the
IMAC tournaments. :

Of course, this argument is groundless. Nobody is
going to refrain from playing on a freshman team so
that he can participate in a two-day IMAC tournament.
And there hasn’t been any problem of fraternities keep-
ing frosh off of —. basketball, tennis, and baseball
teams to intramurals.

Any ae m that could conceivably arise
could be alleviated by holding the tournaments well
after the freshman schedules have begun.

However, the wrestling tournament will be held next
week with the freshmen wrestling team members

entered.

At Monday's IMAC meeting, Coach Parker pointed
out in a rather overwhelm y of broadminded-
ness “If you put your p in the constitution, there
just won't be a wrestling tournament. I'm the wrestling
coach and that’s all there is to it. :

In response to Council President Mike Thurman's

that the IMAC run the tournament by itself,

er commented, “Go ahead and have the tournament

if you want, but you won't have it in the gym, and you
can't use mats.”

Coaches’ concerns for having freshman teams as
strong as possible can certainly be appreciated, but any
fears about detrimental effects of the IAMC seem

groundless.
_ | hope the other coaches will be more open-minded
and receptive to IMAC efforts to improve the intramural

program.

Romp

ends, John McKinley and Jamie

Bryant in the interior line, and
David Brown and Tucker Lax-
ton as defensive standouts.

The Kappa Sigs averaged 30
points a game to 8 points for
their opponents.

The surprising Sigma Chis
finished second with a 102 re-

36-19 and: then downed the
strong ATO’s 39-27. With George
Mueller at tailback and Ronnie
Ayers and Paul Reichardt at

well-balanced ‘backfield.

Star Evins and Mike Smith
excelled on defense while Tom-
my James sparked the offense.

The Betas placed third by
beating the Sig Eps 36-13.
Throughout the year, Jack Sher-
ril, Joe Rice, and Mac Otts have
sparked the team and all will
be returning next year. Alan
Turner, Albert James, and Jim
Timmons were valuable
assets.

The SAE’s stomped the Pi
Kapps 19-6, while the ATO’s
and Phi Deles each split. their
two games for the ‘week.

‘
aiso0

cided in the last two minutes
The touchdown combination of
Dave Hardeman to Rufus Adair
proved the difference. Vance
Taylor along with Bill Council,
Bill Ross, and Cal Calhoun
turned in outstanding jobs for
th Delts.

The Delts finished their sea-
son with a 14-7 victory over the
KA’s and the ATO’s dropped
their last one to the Sigma
Chis 39-27.

The Sigma Nus upped their
reord to 56 by beating the Pi
Kapps 39-18 and the Indepen-
dents 36-24.

The Phi Gams were assured
of a winning season by their

| 26-7 win over the Pikas. In other
|games the Pikas slipped by the
{Sig Eps 25-21 behind Bill
| Briggs, John Gresham, and Alan
| Torrance. The Sigma Nu—SAE
and Beta-Ka games this after-
noon completed the IMAC sea-
30Nn.

Kappa Sig 12-0
Sigma Chi 10-2
Beta 8-3
SAE 7-4
Phi Delt 8-4
ATO 8-4
Phi Gam 7-4
Sigma Nu 54
Pika 48
Independents 3-9
KA 2-9
SPE 2-10
Pi Kapp 0-12

Frosh Drop
28-22 Loss
To Furman

Davidson's Wildkittens
closed the season last Fri-
day by dropping a 28-22
thriller to Furman, the loss
leaving the freshmen with

a 2-3 record for the year.
The Red and Black could
muster only one score the first
half to Furman’s three. The
Paladins struck quickly mak-
ing it 7-0 early in the game.

The Kittens then retaliated
with a long scoring bomb from
quarterback Billy Taylor to
Kim Johnson. Furman scored
two more times the first half
and the Kittens left the field
with a 21-7 deficit.

The second half was a dif-
ferent story, however. Noted
Coach Tom Stevens, “‘We just
out-played them the ‘second
half. We hit bette."

Furman, trapping up the mid-
dle for a series of plays post-
ed another quick T. D. early
in the third quarter but from
then on the game was all
Davidson. The Cat's hard-hitting
defense caused five Furman
fumbles, three of which were
recovered by middle guard
Tupper Morehead.

The Davidson offense also
began to move the second half.
Taylor punched into the end
zone late in the third quarter
and then threw to halfback
Dick Lindsey for a two-point
conversion to make the score
28-15.

In the fourth period, Taylor

cord. The Chis stopped the KA‘s |

halfback the Chis presented a_

Died

Located in Easton, Pa., and
a member of the Middle Atlantic
Conference, Lafayette has far-
ed poorly this year. They have
lost six times and tied Hofstra.
In their seven games they have
been outscored 49-199 by op-
ponents such as Brown (3-20),
Delaware (0-28), Temple (18-38),
Bucknell (12-54), Gettysburg
(3-21) and last week's loss
Rutgers (6-31).

to

By TOM COOK
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Halfbacks Johnny Walker and
Steve Smith were injured dur-
ing Tuesday’s practice. Coach
Bill Dole noted that Smith will
probably start tomorrow, but if
Walker is unable to play, soph-
omore Mickey Andrews will
Start in his place.

Coach Dole also mentioned
the possibility that Dan Bare-
foot might start at tackle in-
stead of Bill Randolph. With
Heckard returning to quarter-

Lafayette’s Leopards invade Davidson tomorrow for a 2:00 P.M. encounter with
the favored Davidson Wildcats, making their first visit to Richardson Field for the
initial game of a home-and-home two game series.

back. Bill Rikard and Phil
Hightower will man_ the of-
fensive ends. (

Coach Dole, looking ahead to
this afternoon, commented,
“They have a real good passing
attack and we are going to
have to cover them close and
play a good pass defense to
stop them. They have a good
kicking game and their punt-
ing has been good. I think it
will be a real good game."

The ATO’; edged the Delis |
37-26 in a game which was de- |

Davidson assistant coach Tom
Stevens, who saw the Leopards
against Rutgers, declared,
“They couldn't run against
Rutgers at all. but George Hos-
senlopp, their }
threw for 260 yards.”

quarterb

' Lafayette is deep in-receiver
Hossenlopp's favorite target
end Dave Brown, who is a new-
comer to a squad ‘which boast
18 lettermen.

(Staff Photo by Thel)

PIKA MARK BROWN PULLS DOWN PASS
Sig Ep Defender David James Fights For Losing Cause

Pfeiffer Tops Booters,
But St. Andrews Falls

“Number 44 (Bob Gombos)
is their best running back. judg-
ing from what I saw,” comment-
ed Stevens. Gombos is a con-
verted end who was not a
Starter at the first of the sea-
son: In the backfield with Hos-
senlopp and Gumbos are. half-

By JOHN ALLEN stight injuries, he saw action) packs Bill Horvath and John
Davidsonian Sports Writer at three different positions in| yjoo,s.

Davidson's soccer team split the encounter

its last two games, boosting Jan Brakel raised his record| fayette will use one team
their season record to 7-3 by goal total to 26, an all-time} oth on offense and defense,
shutting out St. Andrews 5-0 high for Davidson soccer. with only Hossenlopp being re-

Friday and falling 5-2 to Pfeif- Coach Fogleman commented placed by salety'Gary Marshall.

Interior ‘linemen include tack-

fer. yesterday. on the fine play of Nzeng
: oe ; ‘ 5 P na ft BU, les Henry Butcher and Terry
Hampered by injuries from Brakel, and fullback Gus Brown, a
: : Morrow. guards Bill Hedden
the Campbell College game, the but said he was pleased with
Wildcats. got off Losi. étart i f i did and John Oskan, and = center
rats go oas § everyone's pe ance 3 . :
nm : a { : ‘ everyones performance and dic Tom Rosenburg. Stevens sum-
0 e hard and narrow St. An t single c 2 articula
ra ield . % 7 . ; _ single out any particular marized the scouting report by
uy > oe . » > rs z : . :
drews field. “We missed sé veral. players. commenting, “Overall they're
Scoring opportunities in the The Davidson booters suffer-| not as big as we are. but they
first half, although they played eq 4 5-2 loss. their third of the have good team speed, better
well against us and hustled as season, at the hands of Pfeiffer than Lehigh. They have played
much as we did,” said Coach College yesterday. ; several good Eastern univer-
Harry Fogleman. The two squads matched goals | sities, so their record is not a
Aftr a few lineup changes until: the forth period, when) true indication of their ability.’
and some new _ strategy, the pfeiffer's offense caugat fire) po vidson; led ‘by game cap
fi ; j . : | avigson, - i é > ap-
Wildcats organized themselves and tallied three quick points! , ys oe Retin
and came back strong for the ; od | tains Will Jackson and Steve
to give them a 5-2 decision anc | Heckard, will undergo only

second half action: Two goals
by Ben Nzengu, two by Jan
Brakel, and one by Lee Fan-
ning gave the red and black
roundballers a 5-0 margin at
the end of the contest.

Though sophomore Tom
Frist went into the game with

their sixth straight win of the | minor changes. in normal
season.

| lineup. Heckard will start at
Lee Fanning scored the Wild-| quarterback on the strength of
cats’ first goal in the final quar-

his showing at Lehigh, and will
ter, and offensive ace Jan Bra-| also see some defensive action.

kel booted his 27th scoring kick | Sophomore Jake Jacobsen will
of the season in the third per- | again spell Heckard on offense
iod. if the occasion arises.

Whittlemen Win Again,
Run Over High Point

The Davidson harriers troune-
ed the Purple Panthers of High
Point 20-43 Tuesday
last regular season meet.

High Point's Lewis
finished first with an amazing,
record time of 22.04 for the 4.2
Behind Farlow,
however, came eight ‘Cats, who
left. little doubt
come of the meet

its

in their

Farlow |

mile course.

as to the out-

Tom Heffner, in at 22:29,
Andy Little, in at 22:50 and John
Barrow, With 22:56, also broke
the old course record of 22:58

Taking fifth place in the meet
was Dennie Phillips, with 23:14.
Finishing within one mnute of
him, were Robert Dean, 23-21,
Ronnie Reese, 23:29, Jesse Sims,
23:41 and Chester Davis, 23:14.
Finishing tenth was High
Point’s second man, Grif Bal-
this, with 24:40.

Th victory over High Point
gives the cross country ‘Cats |
a season dualmeet record of”
five wins against two defeats.

This record, better than last
year’s 42, plus the Wildcats’
second place finish in the state
meet gives evidence to a suc-
cessful season.

On Monday, Davidson will
host the Southern Conference
Championship Meet. Coach
Heath Whittle stated, “Of the
eight teams entered the meet.

West Virginia is probably the
strongest. Defending champions
William and Mary, Davidson
and Furman will most likely be
battling it out for second place.”

The meet will start on the

pee

Staff Photo by e
HANDY ANDY LITTLE GAINS ON TEAMMATE
Harriers Trounce High Point

aS RY INES LS EES,

Finest Steaks Served Anywhere

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL
STEAK HOUSE

1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

soccer field at 11:30 Monday Phone ED 2-2414

Fumble, Missed Block
Bring Sth Grid Loss

By STEVE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“I think the whole game from our point of view can
be effectively wrapped up in two phrases: a crucial fum-
ble and a missed block” commented Coach Bill Dole on
Davidson's 13-10 setback at the hands of Lehigh last
Saturday.

“The fumble, late in the first quarter, gave Lehigh
the ball on our 20 and set up their first touchdown. A
lineman’s missed block cost Davidson a score when the
rusher threw Steve Heckard for a loss before he could
pass to an open receiver in the end zone.”

Dole laid much of the blame for the defense on a lack
of team spirit: “The boys weren’t as aggressive as they
were for the Furman game; there’s not much natural
rivalry between Lehigh and Davidson. Since Lehigh was
playing at home, they were naturally up for the game.

“I don’t mean that we weren’t up, but we weren’t as
keen for that contest as we were for the Furman game.”

Stated one of the ’Cat gridders, “What really hurt us
was our failure to come through when we really needed
to; we surpassed Lehigh statistically, but not at crucial
points.” Also mentioned by a player were the several
devastating gains by Lehigh quarterback Les Kish when
he was forced to run the ball on a pass play.

Davidson drew first blood in the match, scoring early
on a Jim Terry field goal after a scoring drive ‘stalled
on the opposition’s two-yard line. The Engineers bounced
back to score on a Wildcat fumble seconds before the
beginning of the second quarter.

Davidson’s Steve Smith, leading ground gainer in the
Furman game, then led the ’Cats through a sustained
march, scoring himself from the Lehigh five. Davidson
carried a 10-7 halftime lead to the dressing room, but a
third-quarter 16-yard touchdown pass by Lehigh
quarterback Kish put the Engineers out front.

A scoreless fourth quarter wrapped up Lehigh’s first
victory in seven games and left Davidson with a 2-5
tally. ?

Rendezvous in Charlotte at
La Roma Ristoranti
Best Pizza West of Italy

La Roma
Ristoranti

1540 West Boulevard at Remount Road
Phone 376-2576 Charlotte, N. C.

a Ae eA Wd es

Singing goes better refreshed.
And Coca-Cola — with that special zing
but never too sweet —
refreshes best.

Cain @

— Oe ee

a |

eee ERNE

morning.

THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
