PAGE SIX °

Town Cracks Down
On Traffic Infractions

By LOUIS LESESNE Jackson noted that since Jan.
Davidsonian Staff Writer 1, the number of citations is-
Pressure from several direct- sued has increased greatly, with
. students receiving thé greater
ions has forced the Town of part of the rise. For the most
Davidson to tighten down on common violation, failure to ob-
traffic violations, according to Serve a stop sign or traffic light.
Mayor F. L. Jackson Sr. students received more than two

As part of the campaign for thirds of the citations.
traffic safety, the town added Reported Jackson, ‘’Local
to its police force about two citizens have been complaining
months ago a third partolman to the Davidson Board of Com
who has been instructed to be Missioners about alleged viola

particularly alert for minor tions, and the commissioners
traffic infractions. were forced to take action." He

noted that one area coming un
' e ' * , der an unusually heavy amount
Thieves’ Carnival
To Show Tomorrow

of fire is North Main Street.

In addition to public com-

plaints, the occurrence of sever.

al near accidents also prompted ,

the Commissioners to tighten up

on traffic law enforcements. |

The last presentation of Jackson recalled, ‘When I

the farclal comedy, Thieves’ | ¢ame back to Davidson in 1913,

Carnival, will be held to- {the mayor referred to ‘that

morrow, at 3 p. m. damn college.’ Since then I have
The farce by Jean Anoullh,
@ contemporary § French
playwright, takes place on
the French Riviera, and Is
filled with masquerades,
mistaken identities, and hil-

Vespers J

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By TIM KIMREY
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Some said, “Disgusting!” Others hissed as the
participants left the chancel. One remarked, “The
est music of the whole dance-weekend.” Many were
quite appreciative and somewhat intrigued. Only
a few were able to worship.

The occasion was a special World Student Day
of Prayer vesper service last Sunday — an experi-
ment in jazz worship.

Perhaps it is not proper to “review” a worship
service, but the fact that Sunday evening’s service
marked such a departure from the conventional
cliche marathon impels us to offer a comment.

In the first place, the entire service was admir-
ably presented; we did not feel that we were being
deliberately shocked, nor did the leaders and par-
ticipants show any insincerity in what they were do-
ing. There was a definite seriousness in their meth-
od, and the extent to which this was related to the
congregation to a large degree determined whether

those present were worshippers or spectators. It
was obvious that many were too distracted by the
presence of piano, bass, and drums and the lack of
choir, organ and sermon to give any attention to the
worship of God. .

The content of the service was beautifully signi-
ficant. The existentialist theme of anxiety and de-
spair was poignantly maintained throughout, in both

e music and the readings

For there is hope for a free, If it be cut down,

thet it will sprout again,. ad fiat its roots will

stump die in the ground,

Yet at the scent of water it will bud and put
forth branches like e young plant.

But man dies and is laid low; man breathes his
last and where is he?

We heard the despairing cry of Job — “Where
then is my hope?’—and we sadly marveled at Sid
Farrar’s powerful poem, “Little Fat Girl.”

And, despite the over-powering emphasis on
death and the meaninglessness of life, there was an
occasional waft of Christian hope in the service,
and we were grateful.

Of course, the music made the service effective
and beautiful. Farrar’s compositions and the obvi-
ous feeling with which he played them were the ma-
jor impetus to corporate wors p. We were especial-
ly impressed with his Prelude, /Soul Cry,” and with
the way he and Rufus Hallmark combined their tal-
ents on “Bringing In The Sheaves.”

Hallmark’s struggling with the traditional hymn,
trying to make it audible over the modern jazz caca-
phony from Farrar’s piano was at once haunting and.
a bit frightening. It set the tone for the entire ser-
vice: the old mode of expression in conflict with the
new, the melodic in conflict with the expressionistic.

The only quarrel we had with the entire service
was with Howard Cornelson's prayer. A first-person
prayer on which the congregation was supposed to
‘eavesdrop,” it quickly degenerated into a seeming-
ly pious exposition, instead of a personal cry unto

od.

¢* © @ ¢

seen a great change of attitude
not cease.
arlous situations.

so there is now a wonderful
feeling of cooperation between
town and college."

He emphasized that the cur-
rent move to. tighten up on traf-
fic violations should be no reas-

The comedy revolves jon to cause hard feelings be-
around three thieves, who [tween town and college. Jack-
enter the villa of Lady Hurf, | son commented that there has
@ bored English aristrocrat | been a national campaign to
ready for adventure, for the | cut down traffic accidents, and
purpose of robbing her of | Davidson is merely following
her riches. through on this move.

ROTC Changes Result
From Cadet Critiques for the first time were all

_ _All three phases of the ROTC program — classroom part of President and Mrs.
study, drill, and care of weapons — are affected in'h Grier Martin’s trip to
changes brought on by a critique circulated among all‘ Rurope.

ROTC students last week and by decisions for curriculum three-week
ree-

improvements made by the department prior to the 4 journey to
critique. _France and Germany netted

the Martins a first-hand know-
hour has been moved up to 2:05

ledge of the Junior Year
beginning Tuesday, For the Abroad Program and furnished

By LINDSAY DAVIS
Davidsenian Feature Writer

A gadget salesman, a one-
station radio, a conference
with administrators of other
schools, talks with David-
son’s exchange ‘students,
and seeing their grandson

For the.first time at David-
son. MS-1 cadets will engage

in field tactics, spending two
hours in classroom instruction
and two hours in the field. In
the MS.). section, five different
instructors will teach this sem-
ester on subjects dealing with
their respective military special-
ty.

Also. newly-instituted is the
opportunity for MS-1 cadets to
fire weapons in order to qualify
for marksmanship, sharpshoot-
er, and expert ratings. The big-
gest innovation in the MS-2 class-
room is the shortening of mili-
tary history instruction and
more practical maneuvers and
tactics. More emphasis on tac-
tical work will also be placed

MS-3's and MS-4's there will be
a 20-minute instructional talk
before. each drill at 1:30. NCO
school, the MS 3 ten-minute in-
structional talks, and the MS-4
class in the U.S. in: World Ag-
fairs will begin at 3:20.

Demerits and merits will al-
so be handled in a different
‘fashion.

|

At the beginning of

them with a few somewhat pe-
culiar and amusing experiences.

The Martins flew to Cannes,
on the *‘warm" French Riviera.
where they were greeted with

_a little less than warm 36- de-

gree -temperature. Here they
met with administrators and
faculty members from colleges
and universities all over the

each class period. the instructor | United States and Europe, and

will pass
slips so that students can keep

abreast of their drill status. The’

brigade staff and _ battalion
commanders have also compil-
ed a set number of merits or
demerits that can be given for
shoes, brass, general appear-
ance, etc.

out merit-demerit! heard and discussed the differ-

ent programs for exchange
and travel of those institutions.

“Some schools,”’ said Martin,
“offer not one but several pro-

Though its root grow old! im tf earth, and its

While the complaints from students were many,
aad the snickering, plentiful, we emerged hopeful

grams similar to ours. Stan-
ford: Has: 10: or 12 of which their
students cat take advantage.”

After the conference, official-
ly the International Conference
on Student Exchange and Trav-
el, the couple traveled to Mont-
pellier with Dr. Francis Ghigo,
Davidson's exchange professor,
and his wife.

PECULIAR COMPANIONS

It was on the train that the
Martins encountered some pe-
culiar travel companions. They
were riding in a compartment
that they shared with at least
two other people beside them-
selves and the Ghigos. One
character was a German gadget
salesman who prevailed ‘upon
the Martins. to take down their
bags and show him all the gad-
gets and contraptions that
might interest him. Then he
told them of his plan to manu-
facture a one-station radio which
would broadcast nothing but ad-
vertisements.

“The. idea was that the ad-|
vertisers would practically give
away the small radios,” said
Martin.

‘*Perhaps the most interesting |
part of the trip.’ said Mrs.

Martin, “was the visit with the |

Pinkertons (Dr. and Mrs. T.
0.) and the Ghigos and the talks
with the boys we have over

the dormitories,” she added.
“And those im the dormitories
think that tmroom with a foreign
boy is a: trémendous advant-
age.”’

The only drawback in. living
in a home or a rooming house
would be: perhaps, the plumb-
ing, which. oftentimes is not
good,

“Or in the case of a few of
the boys who stayed for a while
in an old clergyman’s rooming
house, which before had been
an orphanage. The old man
would not allow them out of the
house after nine o'clock. when
he would insist on their not mak-

Martins Back From Europe

John Good! is a pre-med major.
Martin coneluded by saying,

“This program is one of the
best ways of bettering under-
standing between the United
States and other countries. We
hope, certainly, that we will be
able to include either Spain or
Mexico in the program for the
students in Spanish. I think the
groups next year will have an
easier time because of the trip
-— we know more about it now.”

! THE FUN BEGINS AT

|

in MS-3 and MS-4 classwork.
In order to give students who

have fourth period classes more

time to eat and dress, the drill

FRATERNITIES

(Continued from Page One) |

Furthermore, according to
Capt. Charles Partridge. an ef-
fort is being made to get more
MS I's and MS-2’s into leader-
| ship positions on the drill field.

One of the biggest changes is
the set-up of the armory sched-
produced the letter and sent alule. Usual cleaning has been.
copv to all Kappa Sig alumni: abolished and been replaced
in Charlotte. The assistant dean! by detail check every other
stated that this was the source; week. “This should limit a ca-
of the Observer article. - ey time at the armory to fif-

teen minutes every two weeks
THREE PROPOSALS | —if the cadet will limit himself

The three proposed consider. to cleaning his rifle instead of
ations included in the letter , Socializing.” predicts Maj. R. A.
which the committee has dis-; Gill.
cussed are a ban on racial dis- :
crimination. abolition of the;
“black ball’ system, and initi-;
ation of “total opportunity” or
“blanket"’ bidding which would
guarantee every freshman a bid
to a fraternity. ‘

Jones stated that the Observer
article was correct except for
emphasis. He said he was not.
consulted about The Observer
article until after its appear-
ance; however, he said he was
interviewed prior to a remark
in Monday’s Charlotte News. '

THE UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH

SEWANEE, TENNESSEE

Announces

A 1965 SUMMER SESSION FOR
MEN AND WOMEN

Eight weeks; June 21-August 14
Liberal arts curriculum

Forest environment

Sewanee Summer Music Center.
Student Summer Theatre

6
e
s
s
S

For the Summer School Bulletin
Address the Director of the Summer School

Dalton Takes Over,
Brigade Command’

Cadet Col. Bruce Dalton as-
sumed command of the David-
son College ROTC Brigade for
the second semester on Feb. 3.
S:eve Davidson, who was first
chosen as Brigade Commander. are based solely on their final
was forced to drop out of the examinations (the exchange
program because of a knee | students must stilt comply with
injury sustained during football the standards set for them by
season. | Davidson under the supervision

Dalton succeeds Cadet Col.: of Drs. Ghigo and Pinkerton).
Jim Ferguson. who served as “The boys in the private
commander for the first semes-' homes think that they have it
ter.

there."" She reported that they
all seemed to be very enthusias-
tic about their life in Europe.
-FREEDOM LIKED
“They liked the extra freedom
and the long vacations when
they can travel." Mrs. Martin
said, Class attendance is not.re-
quired and the students’ grades

LAKESIDE INN Fish

Camp

(Under New Management)

“We are eager to serve the students of Davidson College
either individually or in semi-private or private parties.”
Highway 115 South: Turn Right just before Fox Drive-in Theater

Open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p. m. on...
For reservations: Charlotte 377-2701 — 596-2711

— — SS ©

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet
At the Famous Open Kitchen fore...

PIZZA

the femous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Moreheed Charlotte, N. C.

Open ‘til 1 a. m.
Monday—Friday

The Hub

all over the ones who stay in

ing a sound. , The boys risked
a good shaking if. they disobey-
ed the rules.”

ALL MAJORS WANTED

tins, several of the stadents ex-
pressed concern that those elig-
ible for the Program next year
thought it open only to lan-
guage majors. They were quick
to point out that. for example.

“just up the road....

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1965

‘BEAUTIFULLY SIGNIFICANT’

azz Gets Hissed, Cheered

that a few realized. the significance of this new mode
of worship, There were few who were able to wor-
ship completely, simply because most were unac-
customed to all aspects of the service.

Td many, the service seemed secular and crude.
Well, it is true that there were no flowery cliches,
no gushings about the goodness and joys of life, no
inspiring orgdn ‘music. It was not an exercise in
comforting the sick and needy. It was simply a
worship servica.i which six men told of the deprav-
ity and potendal meaninglessness of human exist-
ence. .

Indeed, it was a secular service, in the sense
that it was a.portpayal of man’s secular life, a recog-
nition by worshipping Christians of all that is secular
in man. And it was recognition of man’s struggle
with nonbeing, without the instant damning that has
been so long characteristic of the Christian church.

Many of us at Davidson have laid the faith aside,
simply because it has seemingly (or perhaps actual-
ly) shown itself to be completely irrelevant, com-
pletely out of touch with the world that concerns
us and gives us so much trouble.

That is why Sunday’s jazz worship should be
greeted with praise. It was an affirmation that must

eak about the world to the world if it is to take
the church world into its fold. To do this it must
be in the world.

What we saw Sunday gives us hope that the
Christian church, that grand old institution that
many of us have given up for dead, will continue to

iment, revamp, and in general adjust its ear to
a world full of human beings so aware of their own
lack of certain knowledge about anything and so
Tost in an often unadmitted despair that it cannot
any longer accept “Jesus loves me” as a feasible
TS wer.

&

MEET YOUR FRIENDS

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
THE BEST

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

—! ——er

IHATTIE’S

9

_For Leisure And

Comfort Try Levis

in
school

Greenville, S. C.

TRIMCUTS

And Gant Shirts

From

Rush Wilson Ltd.

Davidson, N.C.

BATISTE OXFORD
HUGGER

Cool, erisp batiste oxford ina
short sleeved button-down with
trim tape: . it makes a

handsome shirt for summer
wearing.

