Davidson’s First Fall Weekend
‘65 Style

PAGE EIGHT THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1965

s:

Text
and Photos
by Tom Thel

Reaerey 5

FRO aS

Last Friday night's pep rally with its big signs
and hastily written fight songs heralded a football
weekend strange and unexpected but welcome and
really about due at Davidson. For two days the
aloof were unaloof and the cool were friendly, and
some of the things that are not to be done were
done and were enjoyed.

For once, there were more pes oy than
football players at a rally; and the coach’s corny
jokes were actually laughed at. Enough torches
were made and lit and lugged to provide adequate
illumination for the beanie-clad participants. Just
after the rally there came the wettest part of the
weekend, a water riot in front of Belk and in sev-
eral other places. It was not fought over beanies
or something else traditionally the sort of thing to
be fought over, but just fought. Even the cameras
got wet.

Saturday's was a slow morning; everybody
wanted to see the game, and there was not all the
clever talk about getting soused first so it really
wouldn’t matter how many points Presbyterian
amassed. People actually wanted the 'Cats to win,
and even showed it, which was hardly typical of
them. and many waited until the team came out
again instead of leaving early, before the game
was over, even though we were going to win.

Really a lot of students had supper on the Union
lawn, of all places, even though the meal was catered
by Slater. A professional vocal group performed on
the Union terrace from shortly before until a little while
after dusk. There were lots of tables, but the grass was
fun and comfortable, and lots of people realized that.
One could also find a fairly far-away tree and sit under
it if he didn’t want to listen or would rather have talked
or something.

Before the professional group had com-
ee its presentation, most people had fin-
hed eating and were doing nothing but
watching three men, who seemed to react
favorably to this increased audience; any-
way, there followed all sorts of wild gesticu-
lations and gyrations of similar violence.

Only a few minutes after this, four or
five ——s a Py Bg Quee
Sin Sang folk songs funn:

singers are sup to say po
were very en and even
aesthetically satifying and ap at times.
