PAGE FOUR /

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spotlight On
SPORTS

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1965

"Cats Head To Washington

jTo Close SC Slate At GW

By YATES FAISON

By ARCH McCALLUM *

Avsistant Sports Editor ie an ; . oe oo Writer sor th al
er a disappointing homestand, the Wildcats set out for the nation’s capita

BUT SOMEHOW ... > § _ intent upon. winning their final conference game, against George Washington tomor-

Five falls ago a rag-tag aggregation of athletes
who dared to call themselves football Players took a
long trip northward on the week-end after Home-
coming.

Blacksburg, Va. was the name of the place they
visited. They went there to play a game—or 50
they told themselves. People around Blacksburg

' row at D. C. Stadium.

Coach Homer Smith remark-

' ed, “in overall physical abil-

ity, George Washington is hard-
ly distinguishable from VMI and
William and Mary’’~hardly. a
comforting thought. However, if
the ‘Cats can get what Coach

iais. Fred D'Orazio and Doug
McNeill, both All-Conference last
year, anchor the defense. Mc-
Neil also plays offensive guard.

Commenting on the possibility
of Lyle’s not seeing full action,
Coach Smith said, ‘‘The loss of

line.

When asked about possible ad-
justments, Coach Smith related,
“Our problem is to hustle the
same and to execute our of-
fense and defense better. As
long as we keep hustling, we

wouldn't guarantee there was going to be a game ia fs Smith calls ‘outstanding individ- Lyle would not effect the win have accomplisined an ob-
ata hin eir Gobblers of VPI had walked all over y~ | ual performances” from every- strength of the offense. Davis jective, and our football pro-
everything in the Southern Conference and little & one, the Colonials may be in for runs the club very well. I do gram will be all right.”

Davidson was sure to be easy prey. The VPI stu-
dent newspaper predicted a score of 49-0.

It was rainy and cold that day, Oct. 1960. Buta
peculiar thing happened.

a shock.

The key to the GW attack is
Garry Lyle, AlJl-Southern Con-
ference quarterback last year

hope Lyle gets a chance to
play. We like to play against
good football players, such as
George Pearce of William and

The promise of leaving home |
again for unknown grounds will
be of little consequence. ‘We
have heard that their field is

Davidson won. | and termed by Coach Smith “a Mary.”

3 —- a_i _ a - ae et . eer’ . ry.

had ween t nearly as talented os the op overad (Staff Photo by Purvis) Marvelous athlete, one of the Despite their ability and ane ae at’s ans that vans
y, PP ° BONE-CRUSHER DEWS PRACTICES TRADE rarely-seen triple threats.” Lyle weight advantage, GW ieft ters."

But somehow they won.

Later that fall another Davidson team was
slated for almost certain oblivion with another sup-
posed mismatch. The basketball squad was to meet
the colossus of the ACC, Wake Forest. By all rights
Bones McKinney's antics should have been enough
to scare the ’Cats off the floor, not to mention a
super-impressive list of enemy personnel: Billy
Packer, Alley Hart, Len Chappell, et al. Bones even
had Norman Snead playing for the Deacs.

As for the ’Cats: There weren’t very many of
them and they weren’t very talented.

But somehow they won.

Which brings us around to the problem at hand.
Davidson enters a game tomorrow in which, judging
by tradition and outward appearances, it most cer-
tainly should be defeated. The ’Cats are small, both
in numbers and poundag , they’re short on talent,
comparatively, and they're suffering from injuries
—lots of them.

Even the 12 straight quarters of shutout excel-
lence must seem a fluke to the outside world after
the past two Saturdays, and the cynical observers of
the Southern Conference scene must equate this
year’s team to the 'Cats of old.

If they do this, however, they’ve ‘missed the
mark by one factor. The ’Cats this year aren’t too
different from other years: about the same number
of players, with about the same amount of talent.
But there is one difference—a major one. The
same factor that has made isolated and unexpected
appearances over the years—in those two games in
1960, against William and Mary in 1962 and VMI
in 1963 and Furman in 1964—is here every week

Star Cornerman Prepares To Crush Freshman During Drill

GRABS VMI FUMBLE

oulellE===s®

Alert

“We believe certain football players are so alert that good

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

happen to them. Such a player is Tommy Dews.”

Coach Homer Smith can easily
prove his statement. In the last
five games, Dews has intercept-
ed two passes and recovered
three fumbles to lead the ‘Cats
defenders in the number of ball
recoveries. In the VMI game,
Dews pounced on a Keydet fum-
ble fo give the ‘Cats possession
on the opposition’s 13 yard line.
This recovery set up the first
Davidson TD.

Remarked Coach Smith,
“Tommy has taken the ball
away from the opposition five
times in the last five games.

This is outstanding for a defeh-
sive player. We expect him to
match this number in the next
five games.”

Tommy Dews is no braggart.
"It's just a matter of luck,” he
maintains. “Sure, being alert is
important, but so is being at the
right place at the right time.
For instance, down at Furman
the Paladins ran a sweep around
my end. dust as that Furman
halfback saw Pack Hindsley
closing in on him, he tossed
the ball right at me. All I had
to do was grab it.”

Luck or not,

pounder ha

Ss

ews Draws Praise

things just naturally td

the 62". 180

impressed his |

coaches this season with his un-

canny ability and scrappy play. |

“He's one of our hardest hit-

ters,"

stated Coach Smith.-

“There is a very good chance
that if he continues to scrap

like he has in the past, Tommy !
the

will make

All-Southern

Conference team this year.
This year Dews mans the left
corner back slot on defense. A
returning letterman, Dews play-
ed defensive halfback last sea-.

son,

Although his present address

jis Charleston,

West Virginia,

may, however, be forced to sit
out some of the game as a re-
sult of. leg injuries, thrusting
sophomore Glenn Davis into the
quarterback slot.

Although injured last week,
Mike Holloran will see plenty of
action at tailback for the Colon-

something to be desired in last
week's loss to William and
Mary. In fact, they got only
three first downs in the first
half. They showed an inability
to cope with the scrambling
quarterback and did not control
a smaller William and Mary

Tomorrow's game is the third
George Washington - Davidson
clash, GW winning the first
two, 40-13 in 1952 and 33-0 in
1953. The Colonials enter the

game with a 2-1 conference rec-
ord and a 3-3 overall standing.

| Dews played his high school ball
in Thomaston, Georgia. While
a senior he quarterbacked his

Freshmen Meet

and it’s here to stay.
Did it come with new coaches, and systems and

uniforms? No, more than likely it was here all am to the state championship
along, lying dormant, ready to be tapped. a W ‘ , ee
tc 2 j finals. He shifted to defensive
What is it? Well you know. It’s symbolized ( sar ne Y= ebb na tice he a sontomore (Staff Photo by Purvis)

‘CATS PREP FOR GW

by a trite little word used over and over by every-
Coach Dick Tomey Leads Drill

body about everything. It’s spirit and even if the
word has little meaning these days you know what it
is because you can see it.

starter at Davidson.

A junior, Dews is a soclology
major with an eye on the min-
istry. His father is a Presby-

Standing 1-2, the Wildkitten gridders were out to
even their slate with a fourth game win over Gardner
Webb here this afternoon.

You seé it in a Homer Smith and his crew of
super-enthusiastic coaches, and in Pack Hindsley
leading second half exercises. You know it works
because you see.a friendly, soft-spoken guy like
Tommy Dews transformed into a blood-thirsty head
hunter on the field.

Unfortunately, Gardner-Webb tens defeated 21-12), so we ex-

has a talent-loaded team, and
the Davidson Frosh are injury-
stricken. One great vacancy
to fill is that which Greg Cox
left after suffering a chipped

pect them to be darn tough.”

terlan minister in South Char-
leston, W. Va.

Open ‘til 12:30 a.m.

wr

Oh yes, there’s a football game tomorrow. It’s [bone in his leg. during drill. a”

a long way from home, in a huge unfriendly place jcox, termed by Coach. Don . _ -

called D. C. Stadium against a big, fast, strong jCampbell as ‘‘a great footballer Monday—Friday a

team. The opposition has a fellow named Gary | and a tough competitor’ will be Dy

Lyle, who is great, and a sub for him with the porten- | missed as a crushing runner and l

tous name of Glenn Davis. ; fine receiver.

According to the experts Davidson should lose. Tackle Jeff Phiugner is also
It makes sense. They’re few in number and they {out with a severe charley-horse ee
haven't a lot of talent, and they're hurt. in his thigh. Coach Campbell bs ?
But, they may well win, because their spirit is | cited that the spot left by a ee ”“
not a transient type of thing. It is here and it ishere [tackle as quick as Phlugner — >, a
to stay and it’s a great thing to see. knocks a lot out of the line. But
Campbell plans to run the other- o
Le | ‘| wise regular lineup with many
Last Effort Failss |: ssi: ‘ulene: MEET YOUR ERIENDS wes
9| The Gardner Webb team will T THE |
e e be running from a basic five- .
four set-up. filled with top run-
Pigskinners Fall (= <2 .c0 ee GONDOLA RESTAURANT
. are prepping in the junior col- f q
Last minute desperation and an electrifying drive/lege for bigger assignments or ;
brought the large Homecoming crowd to its feet but | scholarships after graduation. W INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. we ' :
: * 1— | As‘Coach Campbell commented CHARLOTTE gu ©.
the comeback fell short as VMI edged the Wildcats 16-) 3) inom “They beat Carolina 4
10, last Saturday. Military 54-6, (whom the ‘Kit- WHILE ENJOYING : , i
The situation was crucial as a —— THE BEST pee pS A ?
Davidson had the ball deep in .
its own territory. Coach Homer' Rendezvous in Charlotte at IN
Smith said that with fourth down La Roma Ristoranf
and six yards to go and only BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
3:50 remaining in the game he Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigisna — Salads PIZZA and SPAGHETTI -
was faced with a difficult de- — CHOICE STEAKS — ”
cision.

“My a.ternatives were these: La Roma | — a A
We coud go for the yardage. Ri . | Ff po
forcing VMI to stop us or we ‘ ; ‘
could let Caldwell punt to them, IS toranti } ;
letting our defense put pressure Charlotte, N. C. { ‘
on them. We decided to go andj] Phone 376-2576 1540 West Bivd. at Remount Rd. ||. —_ - i
it turned out all right for us.” — SS ‘

i -. na aA ‘CVE 2, e | ”

Coach Smith went on to say ime - . ‘ Pl
that with another fourth down Finest Steaks Served Anywhere an —« {
break a little later the results
could have been different. SWAIN’S CHARCOAL hy ‘

The opinion of the entire . - al ~-
coaching staff was that. VMI STEAK HOUSE "e amearane pr mmitnave : ial aus Teeseaics oF eone’enoois’
had a line equal to William and
Mary's. These two teams and 4 The Ou . :

Mary's, ‘These two teams, and 1800 West Morehead Street young: bucks of America
ington, are rated by the coaches ° e

as the three strongest the “Tats HAR Oa g 6] clean-white-s ock in the
play all season. one FE -24'4 ; .

The fine job that Tommy Cald- _ 1ew crew Adler calls Adlas tic
well has been doing punting
was again praised by Smith. aA Meet the revoiu.ionary crew of 65% lambswool plus 35% nylon with s 2: f

pande:: for
Cakdvell averaged nen FABULOUS DINING | ae 100% stretch. Up and down. This way and that. That's Adlastic with the give to
Coach Smith had this to s hnternational Cuisine The Young Man foolproof wash & year take on all sizes 10 to 16 and last far longer and fit far better. Size up Adlastic in
in ‘sammary: “They were a oP mows Du Pont colors at fine stores 28 clean-white-sock colors. “'can-white-sock? The now notion with it even without
evi
strong team. but we played well OPEN KITCHEN nylon. Syerywhere. -egistered ne ee aL Whatev. get Adiastic at stores where clean- A rs
and defense as well as we might Counts on jackets of trademark. s all yours for just one young buck and a quarter. DLER
1318 W. Morehead 100% Du Pont nylon in- THE AOLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, 0110),

have, but the Wildcats have
never hustled any better. As
much hustle against George
Washington will make that game
very interesting.”

sulated with Dacron* 88

Wy")
polyester fiberfill for GAD NU

warmth without weight, Batter Thinge for Battar Lies

Bush Wilson Win.

Davidson, N. C.

PIZZA

