Che BDavidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

JOHN Topp
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

IRVINE WELLING
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1965

(Letters to the editor do not necessarily ceflect the views of the editor.)

The Issue

Because of the late hour of the
announcement of the Trustees’ deci-
sion this afternoon. we will not com-
ment on the situation until next week.
Rather than make a hasty statement
on the important issues discussed to-
day, we feel justified in putting off
any editorial comment.

® e ¢

The Cat O’ Nine Tails has un-
leashed his pent-up diatribe finally
this week in the last two columns on
this page.

Initially, we feel that Harrington’s
first point—that the ‘fuss over fra-
ternities’ has become too exaggerat-
ed—is pretty well impaired through
the remaining 1150 words as he finds
himself getting enmeshed deeper and
deeper in the problem.

The issue is not one that can be
sloughed off simply with a six-month
time limit on the discussion.

No one yet has the proven-perfect
solution to providing each Davidson
student with an adequate social life.
Therefore, any working toward the
right solution through discussions and
debates is justifiable insofar as the
central issue is always at hand.

Furthermore, we cannot reconcile
Harrington’s suggestion that THE:-DA-
VIDSONIAN does not look beyond the
borders of the campus. In his plat-
form for the editorship of this paper,
Harrington himself called for ‘“com-
prehensive coverage of all campus
news events and appropriate editorial
action.”

As “The News and Editorial Voice
of the Davidson College Student
Body”. we are not contemplating com-
petition in the near future with any
neighboring metropolitan daily. In the
weekly six-page editions no one has
yet suggested that we have printed
worthless news of the student body.

Perhaps we exaggerated our com-
parison of the recent demonstration
to the KKK: the students have vet to
make Life magazine, even though the
Charlotte news media seemed to enjov
running around campus for a few
days.

Also, we reiterate our recent state-
ment deploring the call for a new stu-
dent bureaucracy.

Seriously. we feel that Harring-
ton’s misinterpretations do point a se-
rious handicap in the discussions on
the fraternity - social life question.
Hasty decisions do not erase the mat-
ter. they only cloud the issue even
more.

We all tend to jump to quick con-
clusions without examining the ram-
ifications of such a matter that in-

volves every single student. We do
share the hope that,a truly equitable
solution can soon be found to the so-
cial predicament on campus now.

® e s

The statement released by the Stu-
dent Council this week on the issue
at hand further points out the failure
of really coming to grips with all of
the details of this question.

The Council was justified in pre-
senting a statement of student opin-
ion, we believe, but not in misinter-
preting some of the pertinent facts
of the matter.

The faculty has not called for an
“experiment in delayed rush’, but
rather for delayed pledging. The only
statement in the faculty recommen-
dations concerning rush was the elim-
ination of summer rush.

“The total elimination of rush
from the next school year” is an er-
roneous conclusion. Such was never
proposed in the wording of the fac-
ulty action.

Secondly, the two houses on Pat-
terson Court which would have. the
lowest membership next fall have as-
sured college officials that they can
survive, even without a proposed pian
of financial assistance by the college.

The cry of “undue financial bur-
den” is dramatic at most. But must
that stand in the way of the best in-
terests of all students? Sure, the tran-
sition will be hard for some groups to
bear, but adjustment is going to have
to be made somewhere. The adjust-
ment also includes providing adequate
facilities for freshmen, and this is not
so impossible.

There are quite a few situations of
which the freshman is not aware be-
fore he arrives on campus. We cannot
believe that too many freshmen would
base their decision to attend Davidson
solely on the ability to pledge a social
fraternity during the first week of
school.

Furthermore. the president of the
Student Council himself endorsed the
nine immediate recommendations of
the Fraternity Evaluation Committee.
which provides more equitably for
freshman social life next ,year than
any plan yet proposed.

Among other reasons that is why
we believe the rine recommendations
meet the problem more squarely. than
any other solution yet proposed.

We admonish all groups and par-
ties to examine each idea in this mat-
ter closely and impartially. Ignorance
of the facts, whether intentional or
not, can serve no good.

Davidson Diplomacy

The Project of the Americas plan.
inspired by Davidson’s Fredrich Ehl-
ers, is aimed at what is probably the
crux of the animosity existing for the
US in the underdeveloped nations —
the lack of two-way understanding be-
tween the middle classes of the US
and of these countries.

As Ehlers points out, the US makes
contact with the upper classes and the
bureaucrats through the Foreign Serv-
ice and with the lowest peasant classes
through the Peace Corps. But few
try to know and try to make Amer-
icans known to the middle classes —
the workers, the shop keepers, the
school teachers, the students.

Associate Editors: RUFUS ADAIR, JOHNNY
CLARK, MICHAEL HARRINGTON. Assist-
ant Editors: BILL AITKEN, DONALD DA-
VIS. Managing Editors: LOUIS LESESNE,
PAUL MARION. Assistant Managing Editors:
BOB HOWARD. JOE FORD. News Editor:
HARRY CARR. Feature Editor: HEYWARD
CARTER. Sport Editor: BILL BRIGGS. As-
sistant Sports Editor: SAM BOYTE. Photog-
caphers: TOM THEL, ROB JOHNSON, SAM
SMITH. Cartoonists: JACK LINGLE, LOU
HILL. Assistant Business Manager: BOB CAM-
ERON. Advertising Manager: BILL WAT-
SON. Circulation Manager: JOHN VISER.

Contributors this week: Frank
Fleming, John Bailey, Jim Morawetz,
David Ginn, Carter Fussell, Bert Whis-
enant, Charles Steel, Clark Sugg, Ron
Snow, Billy Farr, Bob Travers, David
Coffey, Lindsay Davis, Mike May, Bob
Holladay, Ted Glusman, Dick Spencer,
Tom Peaden, Bob Vance, Tommy Cox,
Mike Mooty, Tom Cook, Lyle Smith,
Arch McCallum, Taylor Blackwell.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Is published by the
students of Davidson College weekly during
the school year except examination periods
and holidays. Subscription rate: $4.00 per
year. Payable to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box
218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Entered as sec-
ond class majter at the Post Olfice at De-
vidson, N. C., under Act of March 3, 1879.

PRAM intends to send nine stu-
dents to Ecuador this summer to begin
a program of mutual understanding
with the middle class, the class that
native Ecuadorian Ehlers says “is the
class that really counts.” The object is
not so much to deliver US propagan-
da, but just to let them know Amer-
icans and to let them know Amer-
icans’ feelings on both the good and
bad aspects of their country.

When these .representatives re-
turn to the US, they will give as many
talks as possible to spread the under-
standing of Latin Americans that they
have acquired during the summer.

Nine representatives is a modest
number, but a beginning has to be
made somewhere. Mutual understand-
ing is the lock that must be opened
for closer and better relations be-
tween Latin America and the US.
PRAM just may hold the key that fits.

Right now though, PRAM is in
financial trouble. It needs the $2,000
it had expected from the YMCA East-
er Fund in order to ‘receive another
$2.000 challenge grant. Failure to
meet this goal could mean disaster.

A lot of effort has been made to

achieve PRAM’s goals. Student con-
tributions toward these goals wil! pro-
bably be more lastingly meaningful
than contributions for any recent Y
project.
_ The achievement of PRAM’s ob-
jectives will benefit everyone. We
urge full student financial support of
the YMCA drive to benefit PRAM.

_ By The Way
Funny thing. A certain young

olitical science professor will not ©
e voting in the town elections

next week. It seems that he failed -
to register before the deadline °
last Friday afternoon.

Maybe next year some of his
voter registration volunteers will
put his house on their list.

By ANN PLUNKETT
from The Sophian
Smith College

Today we, as college students, are bom-
barded by demonstrations, most of which
focus on the civil rights and Viet Nam
problems. There can be no doubt that
demonstrations are a useful tool to call the
public’s attention to the need for improve-
ments in these areas.

Yet several criticisms must be made
in connection with the demonstrators them-
selves. One may well question ‘just how
sincerely motivated these demonstrators
are, especially the students. How much do
they care about civil rights or Viet Nam?

The conduct of the student demonstrat-
ors in the recent march on Washington pro-
testing the war in Viet Nam, for example.
could hardly be considered praiseworthy.
The Sunday edition of The New York Times
is quoted as saying ‘‘Many marchers ap-
peared to be newcomers to the ‘peace
movement’ and some had only a hazy idea
about how we would go about ending the
fighting in Viet Nam. . . (they) seemed
to be enjoying their holiday from exams."

Unfortunately the country’s best news-
paper seems to view the march as a lark,
a chance for “the beards and blue jeans”
and ‘the ivy-league tweed coats” to vent
their pentup energy. Instead of voicing an
intelligent. expression of public opinion,
these students are demonstrating their stu-
pidity.

The Selma march is another example
of undersirable conduct on the part of the
demonstrators themselves. The demonstra-
tion itself was orderly, but what about the
personal conduct of the demonstrators?

Advice To Demonstrators

To an accusation made about promiscu-
ity on the march, Dr. Martin Luther King
replied, (Chicago Tribune, Wed., March 23)
“I know there are some things going on,
but 1 think the moral tone of this march
is higher than others."

Dr. King did not deny the charge, and
neither did a personal friend of mine who
went to Alabama. He admitted that there
had been some deviation from ‘“‘tradition-
al morality."

You may wonder what standards of
traditional morality have to do with civil
rights or Viet Nam. Demonstrations are
a protest against some wrong in a society.
Their aim is not to destroy all traditions,
but only one.

People in general are not eager to learn
that they are guilty of a fault, but rather
to point out faults ijn the demonstrations.
Why give them the opportunity to criticize?

I realize that there are indeed many
sincerely-motivated marchers, many of
them clergymen who were in Alabama. I
do not speak to them. But I say to the
others — morality and exemplary behavior
must be a part of a march.

Let me stress that this is not a plea
to end demonstrations, only to improve
them in the public image. Let there be
fewer and better-organized demonstrations.

If you. wish to demonstrate, ask your-
self these questions. Are you well-informed
on the issue? Does the demonstration have
a coherent leader and a plan for suggested
improvements? Newspapers would be eag-
er to publish it.

Wil your conduct be in keeping with
the seriousness of your cause? If your an-
swer is yes to all these questions, what are
you waiting for? Demonstrate!

CONTINUES CRUSADE

Undaunted Wooten Blasts
LandGrant Misconception

Dear Editor:

There is a common miscon-
ception on the Davidson campus
which I would like to take this
opportunity to clarify. David-
son is NOT a land-grant col-
lege and, therefore, has NO
obligation to the federal gov-
erriment to require. all students
to take ROTC.

1 seem to recall from an
American history course in
high school that the land-grant
colleges were established under
the Morrill Act in 1862 and thal
they -are now all state univers-
ities. Davidson was established
in 1837, and it’ is a private in-
stitution. Why, then, does the
college require everyone to take
the ROTC program?

How can anyone use tho above
argument, that is, chat Davwid-
son is a land-grant colege and,
therefore, must require ROTC,
as a means of justifying the
administration's policy? Indeed,
there seems to me to be no just-
ification.

Cecil Wooten
Davidson College

6
Dial
Dear Editor:

The Inquirer: 1 am glad to
see that fraternity men are wak-
ing up to the fact that Patterson
Court is in need of change.

Frates; Yes, I think our dem-
onstration was proof that we
are concerned with the future
of our fraternity system and
that we wish to see the proper
steps taken toward correcting
the social evils in the present
system.

inq.: But why, Frates, have
you not completely dissociated
yourself from the fraternity sys-
tem: you have indicated that
you are against such things as
the blackball? How can you
justify your Greek membership?

Frat.: I have two alternatives.
I may choose to deactivate and
thereby take a stand against the
exclusiveness of the fraternity
system, but at the same time, I
would be limiting my chances
of influencing change within the
fraternity structure. Thus my
other alternative: 1 may choose
to remain within the system and
work for change.

Inq.: Which have you chosen?

Frat.: To remain as an in-
fluencing voice within the sys-
tem. I do not believe in abolish-
ing an institution if it can be
used as a foundation for im-
provement.

ing.: But isn't exclusivism the
very backbone of Greek fra-
ternities?

Frat.: What do you mean?

ing.: Without the blackball
system, the fraternity would be
reduced to a mere eating club.
All the highly selective proce-
dures for acquiring new mem-

bers would no longer be pre-
sent, and the group would lose
its closeness in the inevitable
diversifying of its membership.

Frat.: What you say is true.

Ing.: And isn't the first ob-
jeotion to the fraternity sys-
tem directed at the blackball?

Frat:; This is true.

Inq.: Then if the first evil to

.be corrected is the blackball

system, its abolition in favor
of 100% bidding or majority
vole will undermine the entire
structure of fraternities.” No
semblance of a Greek fratern-
ity system will survive such a
major change. Thus it appears
shat if you choose ¢o change
fraternities from within by cor-
Feciing the social evils inherent
in them, success in your en-
deavor will only destroy the
system, not improve it. Is this
correct? dg

Frat.: It is.

Ing; Well, why do you not
deactivate and stand with the
group which shares your be-
liefs?

Dcozs the Inquirer speak the
Truth, dear editor?

Louis H. Dial
Davidson College

Sackett

Dear Editor:

I would like to clarify the re-
marks that I was ‘‘quoted” as

making at the April 19th meet-
ing of the Student Council. I
did. not say that the McGavock
Teport was an attempt to cor-
rect a problem without ever
defining it.

The statement. I made was
that the MicGavock report is
an attempt to deal with the
problems, and work toward
their alleviation as much as
possible next year, without com-
mitting the college at this time
to a final system. Such an
attitude would allow the great-
est flexibility in experimenting
to find what the best solution
is.

In regard to the statement of
the faculty action, I did state
that the result was a compro-
mise. It was in relation to a
possibie Trustee reversal of the
faculty action that I mentioned
the implications of causing a
faculty split.

I have fully supported the
McGavock ceport as the best
action the faculty might have
taken for next year. I believe
that the spirit of positive action,
cooperation, and working to-
ward the best solution embodied
in that report would have as-
sured the meeting of the pro-
blems and ‘the easiest transi-
tion to a inal system.

Fred Sackett
Davidson College

Cultist Film Festival Brings
Wide Variety In Four Films

Sy GORDON BALL

Dedicated to the proposition
that all men are created pre-
judiced, or at least can become
so, the Union Film Committee
initiated a Cultist Film Festival
in the Morrison Room this past
week. Running through next
week, the festival is comprised
of four programs which ex-
cite four distinct cinema coter-
ies wherever films are philed:
The Silence, Charlie Chaplin
Meets Sid Farrar, A Day at the
Races, and The Big Sleep.

After Ingmar Bergman’s The
Silence opened last Monday
night before often confused.
often excited Davidson aud-
iences, Charlie on the screen
and Sid at the keyboard con-
cluded the week by making for
over 100 minutes of Chaplines-
que Farrargos on Thursday and
Friday nights.

The second riot of the year

will be instigated by the Marx.

Brothers Monday and Tuesday
nights in A Day at the Races.
Time magazine wrote of it: “A
wild, complex, totally implaus-

idle fable about a run-down san-.

atorium, it’s impudent porter
(Chico), an imported horse-
doctor physician (Groucho), and
the steeplechase in which a
Speechless jockey (Harpo) gets
the money to pay off the sana-
torium’s debts through his bril-
Kant ride on a horse who hates
the gambler who is trying to
buy the sanatorium for use as
a casino — it all adds up to
nothing at all except superla-
tive entertainment."

The fourth and final film,
The Big Sleep, is scheduled for
Wednesday and Thursday.

All who want to see why the
late Humphrey Bogart has at-
tained a degree of immortality
in the United States and France,
or why, according to the Satur-
day Review, “Humphrey Bogart
could have trimmed the pants
off James Bond any old time,”
should not miss this Bogy bon-
us,

The film also has to its credit
the direction of Howard Hawks,
the screenplay of William
Faulkner, and the emotive abil-
ities of Lauren Bacall.

atO' Nine Tails

By MICHAEL L, HARRINGTON
Davidsonien Associate Editor

THE FUSS OVER FRATERNITIES at Davidson
College has become exaggerated out of all proper
proportion and possible relevance. One could have
patiently endured this Greek drama if there were
other major topics of contention around here. But
oh no, from morning to night someone is harrangu-
ing an eager audience on either

1). the ignorance of the Greeks/non-Greeks, or
2) how Davidson cannot be a citadel of virtue
with/without the Greeks.

There is really little that I can add to the clam-
or, except to opine that the subject doesn’t deserve
this much attention and that somehow the basic is-
sue is being avoided by both sides.

There is a kind of distinction in this: Davidson
is one of few schools expending almost all its ener-
gies in a dialogue on Greek-letter fraternities in a
nation where almost all other student bodies are
examining crucial national and international issues.

* * e

WHAT MAKES THIS CONTROVERSY so boring
is the tremendous amount of mutual ignorance and
bombastic self-righteousness revealed on both sides.

There is first a tendency to credit fraternities
with super-human powers. Both professors and stu-
dents speak as though there were some mysterious
fog of evil/good that creeps up from the Patterson
Court, strangling or uplifting everybody and every-
thing on the campus.

This is absurd. There is no such animal as a
“fraternity mind”, something anti-intellectual, snob-
bish and brutish—at worst there are only men with
these qualities who happen to be in fraternities
(there may even be a few non-Greeks with these
qualities also).

Likewise there is not something called “Inde-
pendents” that has a high-pitched voice and dates
boys when it’s not flitting around the library.

That “mysterious fog” coming from Patterson
Court or the Union that either elevates or strangles
campus life simply doesn’t exist. Whatever social
problems there are begin in individuals and their at-
titudes, not in “groups”—these are nothing more
than the individuals therein.

* 6 s

EVEN MOST CHAPEL SPEAKERS, no matter
what their original topics, now find it necessary to
tie the sources of all evil/good to the fraternities.
One man somehow made the fraternity issue a vital
part of “European studies”—another speaker tried
to compare the student demonstration to the mob at
Golgotha.

Do all roads lead to the fraternity problem, or
is it that the fraternity problem leads to all roads?
I hope it’s the latter, but I’m not certain.

* a  d

RECENT ISSUES OF THE DAVIDSONIAN re-
veal prime examples of the emotionalism and under-
lying strata of exaggeration surrounding the frater-
nity question. ‘

Many letters sent to the editor have shown a
reasonable grasp of the relevant issues—it is unfor-
nate their topics rarely extend beyond the Davidson
campus. Other letters have done nothing except
bleed at the gums for the poor non-Greek/Greek
with not-too-subtle name-calling. 5

One student invited all comers to punch him
in the nose. Some fired phrases like “ill-conceived
tripe” and “asinine” as if they were arguments—the
self-righteousness implied here.would be amusing if
it were not pathetic.

1 suppose one can admire their professed social
concern, but certainly not their expressed intelli-
gence quotients.

* * *

FOR SOME REASON this paper’s news and fea-
tures rarely manage to cover south of the cherry
cider stand on US 21, north of the proposed Moores-
ville liquor store, east of Erwin Lodge or west of
Lake Norman. This Presbyterian paper has done
what all the medieval Catholic theologians failed to
do—make the sun go around Davidson.

The editorial comments have only occasionally
looked at any wider area of terra firma—save for
an occasional borrowed editorial from The Christian
Science Monitor. And on the fraternity question
there have been ponderous tomes (usually proclaim-
ing the original sins of the Greeks), the cartoonists
valiantly trying to reflect the weight of the subject.

More recently there has been a kind of improve-
ment—now the editorial comment is so confused
and ambiguous no one can be quite certain what the
current editorial staff thinks about the fraternity
question. And only rarely can one be sure of what it
thinks about anything else. ,

But recent editorial columns do reveal some of
the absurd exaggerations that have plagued discus-
sion of the Greek issue:

The rather mild and innoculous student dem-
onstration pro-fraternities was aghastly pro-
claimed a half-baked KKK rally—a proposed
mixture of fraternities and eating clubs was la-
beled a return to segregation—and student ap-
peal to the trustees was called formulation of a
student bureaucracy.

These mental burps I think very nicely point
out the lack of sound thought and inadequate recog-
nition of relevant issues over the past six months.

¢ o e .

AND DOUBTLESS THE VOLUME of mutual ig-
norance and pompous self-righteousness will con-
tinue for at least a few more weeks. The irony is that
by attacking/defending fraternities, the participants
in this dialogue are treating only the symptoms of
the social problems here at Davidson.

The problem is not one of fraternities, but
rather of what constitutes an adequate social life.

Greek-letter fraternities are strong at Davidson
because there is tremendous need for such—the con-
ditions of modern society make both academic and
social life pretty rugged at a rural men’s college.
The practical problem of the adequate social life
seems to have been overlooked—as well as its rela-
tionship to the academic curriculum.

6 6 *

THIS FRATERNITY DIALOGUE was needed.
And perhaps it marks a new dawn in student aware-
ness—I hope so. But I don’t think it deserves every-
one’s exclusive attention any longer, even if it has
raised relevant questions and issues. It’s time to
move on. Some of these other issues are important,
