Th

Havinsonian

AY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966

PAGE THREE

| _ ‘The Practices Behind Campus Journalism

9 a

The. editor-in-chief stands in a swirl
of responsibility. He is a traffic cop, chief
consultant, copy coordinator, good guy
and bad guy all in one week. He covets
the few hurrahs and shoulders the many
complaints that follow each issue. Work
ing closely with the business manager, he
tries his hand at advertising as well as
page layout, copy reading and headline
writing, then usually finds himself picking

The appearance of a newspaper comes
from the pene My and Segond of the page
editor. Like an artist, he applies his own ex-
perience and determination to create a fresh
and appealing, yet newsworthy, page each week.

Editor Paul Marion his

Managing Edit gen :
ter responsiblity is THE HE DAVIDSONIAN editor.
ite each Piece a ea copy 0 readhig te the

.

up the loose pieces to put together a week
ly newspaper.

Each week begins with a staff meet
ing to criticize the past issue and to plan

The article with News Editor Sam Boyte and

the next edition. Page editors submit No one can do his job alone

their plans for the week to the editor, as mechanics of a well-run newspaper depend Feature Editor Heyward Carter after the
signments are made—from photographs on the ability of the staff editors to work Sunday night staff meeting. Boyte and
to the Vespers article — and another together. Carter then make the assignments that de

edition is in the making.

Copy Editor Chris Hawk checks over an termine the bulk of copy in each edition.

The copy desk is the hub of activity on Wednesday night when the

duction.

Art work is an important
part of any newspaper. Phe
tography and engraving of
ten determine as much as
one-fourth of the weekly
budget of THE DAVIDSON

JAN.
Staff photographer
George Purvis adjusts the

enlarger in the publication
darkroom in the College
Union. THE DAVIDSONIAN

depends entirely on the ex
perience of student camer
men.

off,” goes the old saw. In the case of a campus weekly, it’s
easy to rub the ink in thick.

Managing Editor Louis Lesesne adjusts some meta! and
type in his page as Assistant Managing Editor Tom Cook ob-
serves. There are often more pieces of metal in a page than
in a jigsaw puzzle of the same size, and the job of fitting the
pieces together is even more demanding.

(Staff Photos by Purvis and Todd)

paper is ‘‘put to bed.”
be read, corrected and counted,

Copy readers John Wessell,
ards and Bob Schofield glean the reams and mark and rewrite to disguise
each piece of copy in a standard manner; in this case, THE DAVIDSONIAN
style. Careful perusal of each typewritten page means the difference be
tween a conglomeration of opinions and a worthwhile journalistic pro

“Once you get printer’ s ink on your hands, it never washes

Each article is funneled through the copy desk to

and later to be returned for a headline.
Charles McEwen, Bob Vance, Dick Rich

Each staff editor is pet alert her the unex-
pected. A slight error or misspelled word can ruin
the value of an article, or even of the entire issue.
Last-minute corrections are not rare, for a moment’s
lack of attention means inevitable chagrin when the
press begins to roll.

Sports Editor Bill Briggs points out a change on
the final proof of his p age to the linotype operator as
Assistant Sports Editor Arch McCallum looks on. The
clattering of the old, flatbed press in the back-
ground signals the climax of one week’s effort and
the beginning of plans for the next week’s edition.
