FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1966

PAGE FIVE

By
BLL BRIGGS
Sports Editor

TOURNAMENT TICKETS

That annual Davidson debacle, the Southern
conference Tournament, begins at the end of this
month and with its advent comes the usual gripes
about tickets.

Without a doubt Davidson students get lousy
seats, and these bad seats are naturally enough, sub-
ject to some severe blasts by the most caustic
tongued student fans.

But caustic-tongued fans are wrong this time.

Dr. Tom Scott, leading target for many CTF’s
(caustic-tongued fans) summed up the situation neat
ly yesterday, “We haven't got any better selection
than anybody else and they haven't got any better
selection than we do.”

Every school in the Southern Conference has
some of every type of seat. Every school in the
Southern Conference has the same number of circle
and courtside seats—in other words the same num
ber of good seats.

Davidson, in fact, has far more seats than any
other school in the Conference. West Virginia is sec
ond, with about half the seats we have.

But the gripes of the CTF’s aren't concerned
with this. For of these seats, a group of wealthy
philanthropists, Guarantors, who give $1,000 a year
or more to Davidson, get first pick.

After the Guarantors take their pick no’ more
circle of courtside parquet seats are left. After
these men, the Underwriters, a group of wealthy
philanthropists who give from $500-$1,000 to David-
son get second pick.

When the Underwriters finish, the Century Club
members who only give $100-$500 a year, take the
rest of the mezzanine seats we get as well as all the
edge circle and parquet seats not taken.

Then after the players’ parents, recruits, and
other VIP’s get their seats the students get what’s
left. This year, like last year, what's left is a square
in the balcony so high up oxygen masks and binoc-
ulars are a must, and the old student section, the end
tag which means you see each team shoot for
a half.

“Our $10 seats in the balcony are as good as
any $10 seats,”’ Scott observed, and he is right.

As for our end parquet seats, they aren’t so
good, but the way in which our seats are arrived at,
the people who get to take the best seats in the Dav-
idson sections, is right and is the fairest for the
most people.

It’s unfortunate that we must be stuck in the
corners and around the edges of all Davidson’s good
seats, but money has always talked and always will.

Unfortunately history professor Norman John
son was right as he remarked, upon seeing where
the students and faculty would sit, “When you play
big time basketball you can’t even pretend that its
the students’ team. It just isn’t.”

FOGLEMAN AWAY ON BUSINESS

Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman is in Palm Beach,
Fla., attending the annual meeting of the United
States Lawn Tennis Association.

As a member of four national committees, Coach
Fogleman is participating actively in the following
sessions:

The Sanction and Scheduling session, which
deals with the USLTA Junior Tennis Circuit pro
gram.

Junior Development, which deals with all phases
of junior tennis.

David Cup program.

Tennis manufacturers, which meets to establish
standards for equipment for ranking players and
policies.

The meeting began Tuesday and will end to
morrow.

Vir
the con
The

r three re

The ‘Cats’ to West
ginia Wednesday blew
ference wide open
"Cat five must win tl
maining

loss

race
1
game » re um
top. spot
The Kevde! VMI

orrow

will be

out for revenge tor for
their 67-44 loss to the Cats earlier
Forward Charlie
} senior from Ford
losers with
rebounds

only other Key

season

Schmaus, a 6
City. Pa

24

. paced: the

and
his credit. The
det to hit in double figures
sophomore guard John Kemper,
who chalked up a big 16.

points ten to

was

Snyder sparked 1 ~©6 victors,
racking up 31 points and haul
down 10 rebounds. Ronnie

and Rod Knowles also hit

th 15 and 13

ing
Stone
n double figures w

points respect vely

The “Cats. faced VMI without

ers ‘ I] yphomore star

B ) Larne Third highest
m ft Lar Wi

a ) ed .w he The
LANE DRIVES AROUND WAKE FOREST'S CRINKLEY sae ais kee a
‘Cats First Loss, 82 80, In Nightmare Week Fused oR ymond Spider

‘A DISASTROUS WEEK’

Wake, W. Va. Clobber ’Cats

A disastrous week of bas- delivered painful blows to Dav. The verdict ‘was an 8280 over. Falling behind by 12 points in
|ketball saw the ’Cats drop idson basketball ne defeat on Jim Boshart’s. the early going, the ‘Cats got
two games that were The blows began Saturday at three:point play red up and evened the score
“musts” for national recog Greensboro. There, the Wildcats e , before West Virginia gained a
| nition. put forth almost enough effort -_ ss gs on Hes ‘0 41.36 halftime lead
Although they trampled Fur. to'overcome Wake Forest's 60.9 ‘nd it-earlier. The Deacons bt With a great burst as the sec
jman in a pre-exam contest, per cent shooting percentage but °"" tailing ‘with 3:45 Femaimin® ond half opened, the Wildcats
EORUA HOR CARE. Ah el. AM three-point lead before

| Wake Forest and Wes: Virginia faltered at the charity stripe. |” built’ a
i a { red the ball for

TWO YEARS TOP SWIMMER >

Stokes Shines For Mermen

This year as Stevens said, ‘Jim
has had his mind on other things
like law school, and the
Rhodes scholarship which he was
nominated for. He missed a lot
of practice because of illness,
also."

By JIM MARROW
Davidsonian Sports Writer

For the past two seasons
Jim Stokes had been named
the most valuable member
of the Davidson swimming
team. If Coach Tom Stevens’
predictions come true, he
will be given that honor
again this year.

he only thing that seems to
be holding Stokes back now is
that he is too well-rounded.

But Stokes is beginning to con-
centrate on his swimming now.
“This past week has been the
best I've ever had for work
outs,”’ he said. In one practice
session alone, he covered over

= | ey oe ce : Angie fs the Mounties could muster a foul
e | the ce cei insadie si aa si ho The margin remained
| wimmers R d before. Dick Snyder wa fouled ore — a so
| ea y with :47 left. One to put the a se
Cat : rena ~~ fense gave the Mounties their
ats ahead, bu rw second pop rargin
< ou aon Stone missed a Dick Snyder ted. the ‘scoring
ror wo p ee ce More eteae 10 points, while Ron Wil
| |‘ vad 24 for the Mounties
| i
Davidson's tankmen, idled for more than a week by! S#stitvtes were in ee FURMAN
| exams, hope to swim into shape before meets next week |!" ‘"¢ WF victory. Paul Crink” One bright spot was to be
| with Roanoke College and Appalachian. a acggaion Bill Joyner. found at Furman, where pres
| Although Coach Tom Stevens he’ said, ve're not 1 IAD vith V1. helped out: foul-plagued 1] ean VAVE had their
been unable to learn. much. because -of-the long J Bob’ Io 1 and Paul Long np
| about’ Roanoke's swimmers, he Stokes is just now working into| [OYder led ‘ ee W
| idicated that. the meet would’ god condition. But I have been | Bobby Lan id 1 and Rodn the ‘Cats emerged « ,
e closely contested. It: is to working them hard, about a mile |! ; 12, Loa inned 19 and ‘ I
|be held on campus next Tues» a day. and 900 vards of th I mare "9 {0 D pt 1 !
| day yard.’ 4 ) fr )
I . la eo Wild Steven ted 2g iard. Ha jus trip W i x
| : leit 1 especially e job th Mountaineer 1 the Palad »
é tN Appala ; ;
| < : “ar. H ie team id ame al Cha m Wed da yeh ond ivide p
in, Where they will probabl) ai : ee
ater litte-difficulty.”’ ‘The. ind dow \\ I i4f lg re
| n lave a real strong swim
jining program, and T believe
| we'll take care of them.” bad bed
_doadin tikes 3 wont IMAC Action Continues
linto these. meets.
Commeniing on the seasdn to}
|this. point, Stevens expressed The regular schedule of IMAC eXams of some. fraternity. squads. may
| pleasure with the over-all work | basketball and handball ‘ganx The Sigma Chis. yesterday be augmented by the ¢éligibility
land enthusiasm. “Of course,”’ resumed this week after a recess trounced the Pikas by..some. of freshmen pledges, the action
rasa er eucenatige Tt . “~~ where around 40 points. while depending upon: the decision. of
the Phi Delts defeated. the Pi the faculty committee on. Mon
Kappa 49 to 40. Cam Harkness day
and Joel Williamson. led the te
Is ena Gita: ton: Hunt paced the Tommy Hunter, president of
Delts with 20 point the IMAC, will submit the re
sults of a freshman poll to the
In’ other ATO’s committee on that day. The poll
trounced the Betas Rufu expected to sample freshman
Adair led all orer md ypinion on the proposed change.
bounders. The KA-Kappa Sig |

thous vards of butterfly swrir ‘ the seventh grad: a } .
a thousand yards of butterfly swimming in the seventh grad The: rule-now stafes that fresh

| was cancelled

nm
All-American candidate Dick "Kittens

’Cats Hope For Comeback
Against VMI, Richmond

By BOB REID
Davidsonian Sports Writer

__ Lefty’s Cats must hit the comeback trail when they host VMI tomorrow and
Richmond Tuesday, if they expect to clinch the Southern Conference title.

will try to avenge that 98-89 where he hit 100 per cent.
humiliation at the hands of Davy Guiding the Spider attack will
dson last month. The Spiders be captain Johnny Moats, a 6-1
1ttempts to contain Snyder fell guard from Richmond, Va. As
the sat sé ir bagged yphomore Moats averaged 14
| ybed 22 re- points a game. Junior forward
bound Gre t 6-6 will give depth
Tricky Dick iged to elude e Richmond scoring depart

defenders Tet Burge ind men

Dick Balderson, who both fouled Manning the backcourt for the
yut trying to guard hin Spider will be senior Spike
While the Spiders fumbled Welsh, ‘‘one of the best outside
over Snyder, Knowles and Lane 0 » loop."’ Alternating
sored 20 and 25 points respe at front court duty. will be
tivels Nine of Lane's poin sophomore Terry Burgess (65)

free-throw

Junior Butch Renaldi (6-4).

Kill WF;
Duke, UNC Next

By DOUG CRISP
Davidsonian Sports Writer

were from the line, and

Davidson's. Wildkittens defeated the Freshman
team of Wake Forest, 92-81 Tuesday in Winston
Salem.

_ Davidson got off to a real good start, gained a
big lead in the first half, and coasted to victory in the
second half

__ Dave Moser played an excellent game and was
high scorer for the game with 26 points. Wayne
Huckel also played well and was second leading
scorer, tallying 21 points for the contest. Mike
Spann scored 19 points and did a fine job on the
boards.

Rocky Crosswhite and. Mike Dickens played well
off the boards and Mike O’Neill played a fine over-
all game but “did not score quite enough.”

Coach Terry Holland reported, “I thought we
played a great first half considering the lay-off,
maybe we saved a little for the two big ones com-
ing up.” ae aR a

Tomorrow night the Wildkittens take on the
Duke freshmen in Johnson Gym. Duke defeated
Davidson in their first meeting, 107-83, at Durham.
They are sparked by High School All-American Steve
Vandenberg, who is big and a tough ballplayer. Dave
Golden and Gene Bromstead are the guards for the
Blue Devils and both are fine players. “Larry Demp
sey, from Greensboro, who plays forward, is the one
who really beat us last time,” said Holland.

Next Tuesday Davidson plays host to UNC
which has one of the top Freshmen teams in the
country. Rusty Clark, who is 7 feet tall, is the top.
Tar Baby. Bill Buntin, 6'7", is a good outside shot
and has good speed for a boy his size, Joe Brown,
65”, is a real good shooter from the outside and is
strong and tough under the boards. Dick Gruber,
who is really quick, is probably one of the best
guards that the ‘Kittens have played agains! all sea
son. He is a very good shot and excellent driver

Carolina is undefeated so far this yeat

OVENS
AUDITORIUM

TRACTIONS, INC.
IN CONCERT — IN PERSON
Making Their First Charlotte Appearance

THE LETTERMEN

TICKETS: 3.00, 2.50, 2.00
TICKETS NOW ON Good seats available at all
SALE price ranges. The auditor-
Davidson College Student ium box office opens at
Union, Coliseum Box Of- 6:30 p.m. Tuesday eve-
fice, National Hat Shop ning.
and Hi Fi Camera Center.

Stokes’ best event is the two He grew up in the AAU age-| men will compete on dorm
hundred-yard butterfly which he group swimming program and] Handball action saw the Kappa teams for the entire first year
swam. last year in 2:11.2, good credits it for his continued in-|¢ .

: ; ate : ~ | Sig team of Walter Daniel and The propose teratior as
for a second place in the con. terest in swimming tia ? _— iniel and The proposed alteration wa
ference meet. Stevens thinks As for the sport. swimming, Billy Clark slide. past the Pi initiated by:.a strong feeling
that time could come down to a Stokes said, ‘I think it helps|Kapps. On the other court around some fraternities that
ved with work, but says, ‘‘He’s build the whole body. But it's} Buzzy Parker and Terry O'Hair freshmen participation on ‘club
still got a long way 10 go. still a hard sport to train for! or the Phi Delts defeated the teams. would — help acclimate

Stokes also swims a leg on the and a hard sport to stay inter : , ssi
team's fi 1 | " Ce SAE’s. them to their respective fraterni
eam's freestyle relay team. ested in.’’ Coach Ray Martinez 7 ; ‘ j

P i " 4 , or a “© sai 1e somewhat depleted ranks. tles.
Stokes’ home is in Winter ree Canqiina ae esr
Park, Florida, where he started that if a swimmer had to crawl}. ‘ia al siicastiaaenienmcstnnnaipenneneiaet —
out of the pool, he'd had a good
w t. °
nen Rendezvous in Charlotte at
Stokes had nothing but praise i
for his teammates. “They should La Roma Ristoranti
get the write-up,” he comment BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
ed. The team is training now Spaghetti — L — Parmigiana — Salads

— CHOICE STEAKS —

La Roma

Ristoranti

Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

for meets with East Carolina's
powerhouse and VMI. The con-
ference meet has East Carolina
as the favorite once again
Stokes’ activities away from
the pool have been of note also.
This vear he is -erving as chair
man. of the Honor Court. He
was the recorder of it last year. |
Also last year he was the presi: |
dent of Alpha Tau Omega. This}

year ho is in Omicron Delta |

Kappa and was the Brigade

Commander in ROTC. FABULOUS DINING
Stevens described him as a nessun Saisie ie ‘
‘fine competitor, an excellent International Cuisine

leader, and just a great all-
round boy. His qualities of lead-

OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

ership are noted in his selection
as one of this year's co-cap
tains of the team.”

Next year he hopes to attend
law school at either Harvard or
Yale. Academically he is near
the top of his class as an hon-

Winter Suits
Sportcoats
i
ror WS

Stadium Coats
Topcoats

Ski Jackets

etc.
S Arant! 5 j
now greatly reduced
during our

CLEAN-OUT SALE

John Mock & Son

Mooresville, N. C.

ors student in history.

