By SAM SMITH
Davidson Junior Abroad

Philipps University—Mar-
burg was founded in 1527
becoming the first Protest
ant university in the —

has been known. until: the
fer it theo] og ‘al facul
ich luded Rudolf Bulk
Mar i :
) 45,000

Che Dau

Of Juniors In

mate in the fall and lies in one
of the world’s most  sunless
spots.

A criticism of the physical
lay-out of the university is the
unreasonable distance between
the classrooms, dormitories and
ous institutes and libraries.

seems typical of German

universities as a student in Ham

bu “We don't spend as

me here in class as in

Ann but the extra hours are
ms!’ ;

Msonian

REPORT

JUNIOR YEAR
IN GERMANY

FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1966

PAGE THREE

Juniors Wa

By JON WARD
Davidson Junior Abroad

In the beginning was the
ship, and the ship was with
students, and the ship was
students. In them was the
beginning of life... ina sea
of darkness. And I come for
testimony, to bear witness
to the life.

The scenery across the At-
lantic was not particularly ex

y RLU AE NYE TE

| year’s Junior Year Abroad, Dr. T
' Williams, assistant professor of
French, announced —_ week.
“We have 12 signed up to go to assured of a place.”

Germany and 13 to

more in each group.”
Last year, when
students came by

Vacancies still exist for any sopho-
mores desiring to participate in Ewa

nee,” Williams

said. “Our quota is 15 for each coun-
try, so we can accommodate several

vacancies existed,
as late as May to

PHILIPPS UNIVERSITY

ball team here in Marburg...
well, it’s not-as good as David-

By TUCKER LAXTON
Davidson Junior Abroad

(of which 2,500 are co-eds), is man fellow shakes hands (I’ve Dis ae 6 hee son's. 1 would say that it is
small compared with other Ger- heard) with a girl after the first sports to Gheeme proctor here about on a par with one of the
man universities. The size limits half-dozen dates before attempt- ro Marbu bs me of witch ts better fraternity basketball
the variety of course, but avoids ing any sort of good night kiss I : -" +; FE. ts 14 th . os Davidson.
to'some extent the impersonality Living condtions in Marburg nitro ‘4 et ‘i ag fie ne
of larger schools. are good. Meals in the Menas Saat } ahi — It could be better, of course,
One often hears that German ‘(overnment subsidized) ‘are 25 — but is not because the Germans
tudent bodies are much Jess Cents each and are edible but - He vit asketball just. a
friendiy than American. This. 2% sometimes monotonous and lo-or-die situa
me coord es vend not always so delicious as vinning team
US stud Y 1 in Ham. “/ater's iolar
yur g ) } | ‘ t » ¢ nitory
’ d per n h, wh
) end 1 Kitcne
ne ry yom
’ ) d oe
thet mater 2
h
oa
,
p +?
. ' , 1 the
uden 1 j \ Marb ‘h
end One ] ) RESTS fox é
} n of US. students i ree en i $ rs
96 out of 377 for- Hopefully, hes Zive invon Photos by Smith) ) 5 i the
students at Marburg are ¢hinking about coming abroad an ! all 1 ‘ with
American). US students don’t idea of what is awaiting them in MARBURG-ON THE -LAHN A number « ) i n: having: ts firat
ive therefore the ‘‘curiositv. Germany . j . | A
eaten’ thnk’ ‘Qiciion ahahen) Germany. Davidson Away From Davidson For 14 Juniors es lames an drawing Diggee
nave at Davidson gh the waters for the Mar ig. capacit ‘of the rn
Secondly, there is the a 1 uu vimm team, Ricky 110, but the next game will
Speak well cnaugh pre tudents Begin Year Pfitener and Bill Ramsey are have: a 100. extra chairs to .ac-
peak well enough to express playing on one of the student commodate the hordes of. fans.
ourselves, our conversation is basketball teams and Herb Jack
slower than most Germans a on and Karl Beck are cur Ed Note: Tucker Laxton and
would like to speak. A t f ar bia ee Institute rently ng to lose weight by Arthur Clark, a Davidson grad-
Thirdly, there is German po- lifting tons of barbells in be- 1:6 of °65 who is here privately,
liteness. The “du” and ‘Sie’ tween tons of meals : z
are both members of this up
forms of the language, the rela
tively stiff social manners and By JIM MAY improving their German in citic As for the university basket- coming team.)
the politeness inbred in most Davidson Junior Abroad four Goethe Institutes in
German students make it more oa oer , i Bavaria. The course of instruction in
a matter of politeness than of While living in. German _ Cluded a very comprehensive
snobbery not to treat everyone homes, the 14 mevideon stu Rides purpose: of this — nthe study of German grammar, stu iii
as a good friend. we participating in the Goethe Institutes was two-fold: hit canseediien <b dink sans
For instance, it's very impolite Junior Year in Germany first, to enable the student to Ss
(or very ‘‘amerikanisch’’) to ask program spent the months improve his spoken and written POS!* liga pronunciation ane om Max
a girl for her name, and a Ger- of September and October German; and second, to provide enunciation drills as well as dis x Ghana

—MARBU
Campus Is Spread Over A Town Of 45,000

PLENTY OF FREE TIME

a period of acclimation when the
student could become accus
tomed to the different German
customs before entering the Uni

versity at Marburg in Novem
ber.

Jon Ward, Ned Kelley and
Bill Ramsey were stationed

Rob Rhea, Hal
in Bad Aib

in Brannenburg;
Dial Jim May,
ling

and

Karl
and Dick
in Kochel
Laxton, Will Nor
th and Herb Jack

Also — Ricky
Beck, . George
Barney were
ind Tucker
man, Sam Sm

Pfitzner,
Miller
stationed

son went to Bad Reichenhall
Brannenburg, Bad Aibling and
Kochel were in relatively close
proximity to Munich, wherea
Bad Reichenhall was in the very
southeast corner of Germany
near Salzburg, Austria
Although each Goethe Inst
tute had its own particular sy
tem and schedule of instruc
tion, each of the Davidson s
dents attended class an average
of five or six hours on Mon
day, Wednesday and Friday and
three hours on Tuesday, Thurs
day and Saturday. mornings.
Thus, every other afternoon
was free for study or short

trips to neighboring towns and

citing, short of the International
Mail Buoy at the midpoint. How-
ever, there were unlimited op
portunities for student activi-
ties, and the voyage was most
enjoyable for the more balanced
students.

Upon arrival in Le Havre,
everyone parted in sweet sor-
row, rolled into Paris by lux-
urious French express, gathered
once again in the Parisian train
station and were rapidly car-

Vacancies Still Exist

he said
=f

sign up, but procedures have changed,

“Interested students should come
by as soon as possible and see either
me or Dr. (E. 0.) Wruck, in order to be

Dr. Wruck, assistant professor of
German, and Dr. Williams, assistant
professor of French, will accompany
‘next year’s groups ‘in Marburg and
Montpellier, respectively.

of both countries along the way:
One can imagine our tremen
dous joy upon hearing the spoken
word and our enthusiasm for
immediate intercourse once
across the border. We could
only be appalled by the Ger
mans’ ability with their langu
age.

into the city by astound

ried
ing French systemization.

We had several days of sun
shine and a_ well-coordinated
tour of the city by the Student
Travel Service. An even closer
perspective of French life, day
and night, was available to us
during our stay.

Once in Munich we took leave
to our respective Goethe Insti
tute in Bavaria in order to study
the German language. Several
of us suffered new experiences
that first night in Germany in-
cluding the three who found
‘no room in the inn” and were
reduced to a ‘‘Bierstube”’ floor.

We said farewell to the French
students and departed by train
for Munich, gaining a good view

¢

The various Goethe Institutes

a ' : , g are in extremely scenic loca
* or : ex Car & rip tions, Between classes it was no
ig ; problem to wander along numer
@ ous paths within the gently roll

ing mountains speckled with
“Gasthauser’’ and old Bavar
ian. farmhouses.

In September and October the
warm and beautiful weather en-
chanted the land. We could find
“ein schones Madchen” ascend-
ing to a peaceful guesthouse,
study, drink beer, eat good Ger-
man kucher, etc.

Tt is no problem to travel by

r Throughout Europe

train, Nothing is
very distant in Europe, and we
can easily make small excur
sions to.Munich, Salzburg, Vien
na, Innsbruck or any place we
want to see,

thumb or. by

Munich has much to offer, as
does any large city, and we
naturally took advantage of the
“Weltausstellun’ and ‘Oktober
fest... Here another aspect of
German life is seen in the thou-
sands of peoples’ drinking, sing
ing and swinging along with a
big Bavarian brass band.

Salzburg with castle, churches,
Glockenspiel and Mozart is as
beautiful and interest as pic
tured in “‘The Sound of Music.”

ng

truly a city of cul
n which to spend
and naturally mix
“Staatso
as lit

Vienna is
ture and one
several days
with the elite in the
per,’’ a privilege cos
tle as 25 cents. Innsbruck and
Kofstein. lie only one or two
hours from Munchen and are
nestled in the higher Austrian
mountains.

ting

With a week's pause between
Goethe Institute and Marburg
University, some of us went to
Marburg by way of Yugoslavia,
Berlin, Paris, London, Austria,

cussions concerning such topics

as the German educational sys
tem and German’ politics with
particular emphasis on the latest

German election

included in the two

at the

Also

months’ Goethe Insti

fee

two one-day trips by

tute were
bus to a seenic or. historical
spot. in southern Germany

For example, the Bad. Aib
ling group visited Konigesee
and. Berchtesgaden—Hitler’s Al
pine retreat during the. war
and later Augsburg —the birth
place of Hans Holbein the Elder
ind once: the center of opera

for the Fugger banking

mmik

Furthermore, many of. the
dent were Iso. able to visit
uch. citie is Salzburg, Int
bruck and Vienna, for the cer
tral location of Bavaria and the
excellent: train service. facilitat )
ed. weekend trip

Needless to say, the seven
temperance halls at the Octo

ber Festival in Munich were
visited by most of the Davidson
students in order to show their
overwhelming, overflowing sup
port, even in Europe, for the
DC code of abstinence.

Switzerland and Italy.

From the reports Yugoslavia
was by far the least expensive
Tucker Laxton and I went by
way of Venice, Florence, Rome,
Milan, Zurich, Basel and along

the Rhein. The trip over Bren
ner pass into Italy was beau-
tiful.

Venice was cruising along the
Grande Canale in a gondola, see
ing the stately Basilico San
Marco, hearing the Italian music
in the air and witnessing the
rhythm of the Italian people.

Marburg itself is a town of
scenic and historical beauty
with its 700 year old castle, early
Gothi¢ church, Bismark tower,
old stone and wood = gabled
houses and narrow streets,

Since being here, a few ‘‘Aus
lander’ made an excursion with
the University through the

Ruhrgebict and surrounding
areas. We glimpsed the industry,
visited the opera and discussed
cigars and Rhinewine with the
Bergermeister in Warendorf and
the Chamber of Commerce in
Essen.

Germany is a great place to
see and is especially nice be-
eause of the friendliness of the

German people.

(By the author of “Rally Round vt Flag, Boys!’’,
“Dobie Gillis,”

~~ =o
Ney

ROMAN IN THE GLOAMIN’

So _— —
Now as the end of the first semester draws near, one fact
emerges clearly: you are all going to flunk out of school.

There are two things you can do about it. First, you can
marry money. (I don’t mean you marry the money itself; 1
mean you marry a person who has money. Weddings be-
tween people and currency have not been legal anywhere in
the United States since the Smoot-Hawley Act. Personna®
Stainless Stee] Blades, on the other hand, are legal every-
where and are, indeed, used with great pleasure and satis-
faction in all fifty states of the Union and Duluth. I bring
up Personna Stainless Steel Blades because this column is
sponsored by the makers of Personna Stainless Steel Blades,
and they are inclined to get edgy if I omit to mention their
product. Some of them get edgy and some get double-edgy
because Personna Blades come both in Injector style and
Double Edge style.)

But I digress. I was saying you can marry money but, of
course, you will not because you are a high-minded, clean-
living, pure-hearted, freckle-faced American kid. Therefore,
to. keep from: flunking, you must, try the second method:
you must learn how to take lecture notes.

According to a recent survey, eleven out of ten American
undergraduates do not know the proper way to take lecture
notes. To illustrate this appalling statistic, let us suppose
you are taking a course in history. Let us further suppose
the lecturer is lecturing.on the ruling houses of England.
You listen intently. You write diligently in your notebook,
making a topic outline as you have been taught. Like this:

I. House of Plantagenet.

II. House of Lancaster.

III. House of York.

Then you stop. You put aside your pen. You blink back
a tear, for you cannot go on. Oh, yes, you know very well
that the next ruling house is the House of Tudor. The trou-
ble is you don’t know the Roman numeral that comes after
Ill.

It may, incidentally, be of some comfort to learn that
you are not the only people who don’t know Roman numer-
als. The fact is, the Romans never knew them either. Oh, I
suppose they could tell you how much V or X were or like
that, but when it came to real zingers like LXI or MMC,
they just flang away their styluses and went downtown to
have a bath or take in a circus or maybe stab Caesar a few
times.

You may wonder why Rome stuck with these ridiculous
numerals when the Arabs had such a nice, simple system.
Well, sir, the fact is that Emperor Vespasian tried like crazy
to buy the Arabic numerals from Suleiman The Magnificent,
but Suleiman wouldn’t do business—not even when Vespa-
sian raised his bid to 100,000 gold piastres, plus he offered
—" in the Colosseum, the Appian Way, and Techni-
color.

So Rome stuck with Roman numerals—to its sorrow, as
it turned out. One day in the Forum, Cicero and Pliny got
to arguing about how much is CDL times MVIX. Well, sir,
pretty soon everyone in town came around to join the has-
sle. In all the excitement, nobody remembered to lock the
north gate and—wham! before you could say ars longa—in
rushed the Goths, the Visigoths, and the Green Bay Packers!

Well, sir, that’s the way the empire crumbles, and I di-
gress. Let’s get back to lecture notes. Let’s also say a word
about Burma Shave®. Why? Because Burma Shave is made
by the makers of Personna Blades who, it will be recalled,
are the sponsors of this column. They are also the sponsors
of the ultimate in shaving luxury. First coat your kisser
with Burma Shave, regular or menthol—or, if you are the
devil-may-care sort, some of each. Then whisk off your stub-
ble with an incredibly sharp, unbelievably durable Personna
Blade, Injector or Double Edge—remembering first to put
the blade in a razor. The result: facial felicity, cutaneous
cheer, epidermal elysium. Whether you shave every day,

every III days, or every VII, you'll always find Personna
and Burma Shave a winning combination.

**-* © 1966, Max Shutman
Personnam amo, Tom Personnam amat, Dick Personnam
amat, Harry Personnam —— quique Personnam amant—
‘et quoque amabitis.
