RIDA “MAY 18, 1966

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE FIVE

‘Cats Romp Foes In SC Tourneys

Netmen Conquer ”

Conferen

The Davidson  netbers
svored a record 36 points in
amassing a ¢leat sweep of
competition in the Southern
Conference tournament
‘Wednesday in Richmond.

Entering th tournament Sv.
aged lboavily and acoded first tp
(A diyislons exvept the gumoar
me aénities and number dhrea
Gauies, the ‘Cats swept al
their matches to break GW:
aid record of £3 palnta, :

Seoand-seeded Bill Councit
upacl GW's ‘Tan Marga, 3:0,
un HO, ly the bumber ane sit
ale uitraction, Altbouitt he tn
aluval hfs toot durtns the tnatch,
“Morgnn still plexed well,’ ar
aneding ty Couoh Harty Foule-
ties. Bamiond Pucind got pan
Lurry. Unie of GR, 8-6, 62, &2,
ia dk nember (aru Elaals.

tn-ather action, Sain Aaicher
another’  Richround'y  Burteh
Cuten In Jove seta, Dick Hurd
downed Bob Murdan of GW, 6%,
OL Pier Purrott put down
Terry Benbaw af tty Cmontlals,
G4, &2 and’ Woody Faulk «mash.
ed Wally Beabenista of Wiam
and Iarg in straight %-! sets,

Council anu Parrott Jed the
"Cats’ atiack in the doubles de-
partment with wz 6-4, 10% vietory
over twins Richard and Edward

ce Field

play,

“Tuesday smerning the woath.
ee Wad put.” aces -Fogleman.
“It wee a4 degrees, und therr
Wis 2 2i-mph wine. It was
touch te sauve the ball, ond thare
Was T crasmwine, with mode it
woene, That alturmoon (t worm-
ed ip to 45, and tbe avind died
down ta tf spite

Ly

ser

|
L-
Lf

Te

Tn Monday's aotion, the 'Cati .

|.

‘doat a» total of mae out id 17 sotr

pliyed dn walking awry tn a
atibsiantial cary juad. Phelps
wha the culprit, ns ho dropped
one of Ake therm aot iu Bot
Prock of Wost Virgin in a
2.6, §-3, f-0, ‘vln:

Tarsday anv the Wiidente wave
aati aeeep ne tid aod cline
w victory witer anty ewa days of
play. Counel! carned nik. chanoe
ta Taer the top seeded Morwai
by besting Frank Cooke of Bast
Carding, fief, 8, Counetl and
Paerath moved ifmugh Eaodle
God nod FAM ps of Furman.
Ton 64, ta gain the nals,

Twenty seven = points | “Weis
mmowrh ta win the tournament,
and the Wildants alreatly fad
thar, The only ting left to do
was wo sweep the firods, and
they dild that, too.

Hines of ‘Viti. Hatehve and(~

Phelps cvuagied over Owe and

SAAC SOFTBALL

Sollenberger of GW, 64%, 4-0 STANDINGS
and Faxlk and Hurd duwned
Moss and Benebenista of Wam,| | (Tkrough Thursday)
Tb, G1. Beta .____ 12-6
George Washington finished) KA 9-2
sdcond gain this svar with 19] SAE «8-2
polats, followed by WaM with 7.; Phi Det $8
Bast Garolinn with MM. Rien SPE 6-4
mond and VMI with 12. Fur} ATO _— 7-6
man with nine and The Citade| Pika — 5-6
and West Virginia with sight. Sigma Chi _. 5-6
Coach Fogleman commented! Phi Gam _. 465
that he was vory please! with| Kappa Sig — 47
the ‘Cats’ performance, as they) Pi apps —.. 3-4
Jost anly two sets in the finals.! Sigma Nu —.. 3-7
He algo prnised Hatcher for his| Independents ___ 0-10

WY Zr

Cooks
Pewidaniay Spottas Elly

It goes without saying that Davidson is unaccustomed

to hearing about all the conference tournaments we win.
And the double shot of victory was really not anticipated
because of the de facto blackout of reporting from South-
ern Pines by the wire services. Only a few here knew
of our first day lead there, so it was a shock for many
to find out how badly we swept both tournaments.

On paper there was a Breat likelihood of our sweup-
ing the tennis tournament, but yet almost everyone he
their breath hoping only that we would win it. ;

Threo conferance championships in one year. We're
still a long way from being the little giants of the South-
ern, but just wait. . Le.

Maybe it was the sullen,’ overcast sky which gave
the day 2 look of sadness, or the fewness of the nine
players on the immense field, or maybe it was Tom Stev-
ons’ disappointment which was obvious from a look at
the turnout for yesterday’s baseball practice.

No dowkt much has been said about the problems of
this year's team and about the baseball progrm. They
will Hnish this year with an 11 23 record after tomor
row's doubleheader with Furman, and this will be the
second straight year that we have done poorly.

But this is also the second straight year that people
who could have reversed that record decided that base-
ball was a drag, and cut out for greener pastures or
sandler beaches.

All is not bleak. Coach Stevens can look to next year.
North of the tennis courts lies what could be the best
college baseball field in this area. Dr. Mebane calls it one
of hig best engineering jobs at Davidson elsewhere in this
issue.
“A diamond is a diamond, but this could be a facility
of which Davidson could be proud. It needs a dugout and
@ fence to exclude stray dogs and golfers. tt necds some

ermanent plans for spectator seating, Tnore is no grassy

c to sit on if portable stands are fillud.

This dlsmond should be a boon to the baseball pro-
gram at Davidson. The offense shauld be helped be-
cnuse the farther outposts of the outfield will be within
bombing range of our sluggers, too. The present din-
mond i¢ immense compared to the now park's dimen-
sions of 320 down the Jines ond 360 to dend center.

But what would be a bigger help to Davidson base.
boll ig an gssistant coach. Surely our freahman program
ig weak, Football is a great detractor of athleic Frash,
But another baseball coach would give the baseball staff
a chance to do some recruiting and scouting as well as
helping freshmen develop their pre-varsity skills.

We think it's time to fix this deficiency. Heath
Whittle will have Sterling Martin on ftis staff nox1 year,
and it Js time thot we glve baseball a chance to help

Itsalf, too.

Fi

Baseballers Close Season

With Paladin Doubleheader

Tomorrow Davidson will conclude its baseball suason wiih a doubleheader
against Forman on the Wildcat diamond beginning at 3:30 pun. Howard Bryan and

(Photo Courtesy at Richmond Time* Dinpaleh aid News Leadeo)
BILL COUNCIL STOOPS FOR RETURN
As ‘Cats Retucn Crown To Davidson

Sy VATES FAISON
Dawkisan Assi, Sports Edilor

SOUTHERN PINES — Fighting
high winds and hitter ecld the first
dav ond a serious challenge from the
rest of the field on the second, the
Wildcat golfers clubbed their way to
a | yietory in the Southern Conference
tournament here on Tuesday and

Wednesday.
| Led by medalist Dous McKeever
| al 160 and runner up medalist George
Leight al 161, the ‘Cats roared away
{rom their opponents and topped Wil-
liam and Mary, their closest compcti-
tor, by 21 strokes. George Brower,
runner up through the first day’s ac-
tion, finished as third lowest scorer,
and Joe Jelks fied for fouth to insure

Ahe victory.

Early scores from Wednesday's
round gave Dr. ‘Tom Scott several mo-
ments of uneasiness, as the Indjans
hegan to close Lhe gap. All the mar-
hies lay in how the two teams. played
the back side of rhe monstrous Coun-
iry Club of North Carolina course, and
here. the ‘Cats met the challenge.

Early reports indicated that Leight
was coming in with a terrific back
nine, but it was too carly to tell until
Leight approached the 18th green and
rapped in an eight footer for a birdie,

ving him a one-under par 35 on the
ack ride and a 77 for the day,

Then came medalist-to-be Mc-
Keever and one could see the anxiety
in Dr. Scott's face slowly change to
one of happiness as McKeever tapped

SS eee

Golfers Sweep Top Spots;
McKeever Paces Course

in for 2 78. The tournament was in
tite bag. as Jelka and Brewer fallowed
with 836 for 164 and 162 respectively.

John Giles and Champ Covington
found the course a little demanding
und shot respective scores of G8 and 95
Wednesday, althwugh Giles was “hit-
ting the ball pretty well for 48."

The victory wos really a team ef-
fori, as evidenced by the close buneh-
ing of seores after the first day de-
spily terrtble weather conditions. Such
«4 bunching of scores is advantageous
io aw team becatuse if a man should have
a bad day in the second round, one of
his teammates could be counted in his
place, since only the top four scores
count,

In mid June the golfers will go to
the NCAA tourney in Pasadonna, Calif.
The victory marked the fourth
golf championship in Davidson's his-
tory and the third since Dr. Seatt
twwk the reins 11 years ago. Mle.
Keover Joins Bucky Dennis and Verner
Stanley as Davidson's medalists aver
these vears.

Asked about how it looked at the
outcoue, Jalks commented, “We were
real fortunate {o have the individual
champion in Doug MeKeever. Leight
did a great job with one under on the
back. Brewer deserves a Jot of credit
for putting the pressure on Ed Grim-
ble, the first day’s medalist, causing
him to soar to a real high score.”

“It's a wonderful, hard course,”
added McKeever. 1 was a lot harder
for the other eight teams.

WINNING‘S AS EASY AS:

Henry Wilmer are scheduled to start for Davidson.

Saturdey ot Wot Virginia's
Huwiey Fleld In Morgantown,
the Mountaineers took tvu
Southern Conferences onntexts
fram tbe ‘Cats, ol and 70.
Howard Bryon was the vielim
of thé first game. Henry Wilmer,
who atarted, .tonk the loss.

Agalu the Cats hnd stick
(rouble as only Skip Waite and
Dick Lindsey could solve the
Mountaineer pilchers. In the
lirst game, Waitr singled to
drive In Lindney with the ‘Cats‘
only vu alter Lindsey had singl-
od to open the inning. In the
second aume, Waite boomed a
dapbie, which was the team’s
only hit in the contest.

Aftor seeing o baseball gure
In Baltimore Suuduy. the “Cats
went to Willian and Mury with
blood fn thelr gyes. But the
‘Cais could pot handle the In-
dlanr,

Chariic Eldott pltebed the
first game, biel was a 50 vhttthin

Gridmen To
Spring Practice

By CLIFF DUKE
Dovidsontian Sports Writer
Tomorroy the Davidson

football squad will take the
fietd for the Inst time this
spring, conctuding dritis
which began on April 11,
with a scrimmage on Rich-
ardson Wield's gridiron at

mm,

Paced wills a shortage in nunt-
bers and some key graduation
losses, these Wildcats hove re-
sponded with spirit and determ:
ination, effecting improvement
In every phase of the game.

Conch Homer Smith said. “‘T
hsve been extremely pleased
with their willingness io work
and be a good football tenm.
At the start, our bigest prob-
fem was helping cach other. We
@idn’t have o “hamburger squad’
Uke the Jarger sclingls have.
But we aolved this problem and
had a good spring nraciice.”

CLOSE EVALUATION

Coach Smith pointed oul tint
he ante his staff have evaluaved
the squad very closely, to be
suse of taking advanteyte of
everyone's abliltics. He cited the
performance of certain pluyers
#s being strong points.

“We are ploascd with the op-
tion play ranning of Jimmy
Poole, Secand. aur defensive
buekfleld of Roan Gruber, Toma
my Caldwell, Jake -Fronbsen,
Tommy Dows amt Dick Lind-
aey will hnve experience and
ability.

“We are well pleased with Ube
ability of sur pase recelvera—
Willinm Rikard, Greg Cox, Fete
Gildemet, Caldwell ond Gruber
—lo gel open and catch the ball,
Also, along the dofensive Hne
doe Gaddy, Tupper Morehead
amt Buddy Newsome will give

of nv ‘Cut tutiag usd seceral
plays ienoed by Coach Tom
Swevetis ag... bonehead, silly,
Liulsey, Tom Clayton and plnoh-
hitter Bryan monaged nits, but
they were woll-spaoed,

Geoe Bonnett started on the
mound for the ‘Catz in the see-
ond game which saw the ‘Cats
erupt for six hits ond Jour runs.
But the Tadians would not be
denied. They onllected «even

runs In {0 seraich hitt and out-.

the Cats, 74. Bennett
wags charged with the Jnvss
thoagh he relinquished tw
tfound VW. Beyan in the Jaat inn
drut.

in this game fhe ‘Ont Wilb
weee by Buddy Durham, Dave

lasted

feld-

The ‘Cais will tke on 4 Pur.
mus denn winch ls O11 oo the
coolference ard 3-34 overall. The
Parple Paloding fast ty Wes
Vieginfa oa Moatoy, 16:2 and §-0,
the second game twing w far
seit.

Hawks Pick

Snyder In |—
Round Two (Scott Applauds Wh

GEORGE LEIGHT

DOUG McKEEVER . %_ GEORGE BREWER

“Tim seally booking fur
ward {© playing pro ball
next season,” remarked

\.

Good Team Play

be quite a challenge, but) “That's que of the Mnest ond abe alternate. contrlbuted a lot,"
I'm very eager to try ft." | most difficult courses in the Tt was hard far De. Scatt to
Thm wae Soydetts camment | ouuntry," remarked Dr. Tam put intr words haw all tho Ways
after the St. Lodis Hawks tapped) Seo about ae Country Club felt Tuesday mncuing, “tt had
him in the second round of tbe) or North Carolina layout after rained Monday, alaht ond we
NBA draft Wednerday. The 65) wodgnosday’s hard taught victory thought wr'd have ww play in
senior wee te Lith player {Ay in the Suathorn Conferenee golf the rafn. But then ht got “cold
the aation to be chosen fn the] aupnament. Tuesday mornin and the wind
dralt. “Wee started wilh a team ef began ta blow. Everybody was
“T haven't heard from the] port on Tuesday,” be continusd, really discouraged, and some
Hawks representatives yet."l iy which all alx of our boys of the scores cetlected the sd-
added Snyder, “but I expect] wore within «even strokes af yerse onnditionn”
to hear trom them by phone) wach other. 1 was especially —
within a fow days." pleased wlth Doug McKeever,
“Y cant say definitely that/ yao cume through in fine style.
Fit aecept thelr offer right) anor being runner up modaliat
now.” continued Snyder, “bull jas year, it was only right Jor
there's # good possibilty that! him (a win this year’?
rt be playing pra ball next

cage star Dick Snyder. “It'll
rans in the second Inning of Ure
sevpod game, Bryan, Waite.
Hyder and Claude Owen who}
hit tus flrat college hume vin,
an joside-the park shat ty cenler

End

Klong, who dovbled home a

COACH TOM SCOTT
Melds Goll Tropity

———

‘US experience.”

At the beginnlag of driits, the
offensive Hae had the biggest
gap lo close due to graduation
losses, Bul sith Walter Greene

Fines! Steaks Served Anywhera

SWAIN'S CHARCOAL

tncthoring the line, Gary Wal-
dron and Joe Murply manolng| year.” ; Dr. Scott then turned to STEAK HOUSE
the quard slots and Kit Thomp | “Tl probably work as a cor |Lelght. “George did a roally

nee man oer year,” added Sny.| 800d Jab when we nocded it
lke gap has been cloeed. Now| der, “but the Hawks may de-|9» Wednesday, His wns the
they “have no further to go in| cide ta use me as a guard.” | ly round under par on either
September to be renty than any, “ft was pratty surprised that] Side throughout the = tourna
other group.” Dick wasn't a first round| Ment.

KICKING SACRIFICED choice.’ remarked cage coach! (George) Brewer was a very
Work on the Kicking game, Lefty Driesetl. “Personally. 1) sogsant surprise for me," add:
was sacrificed. However, Cald-| think he's a5 good or better thun ed Dr. Seotlt. "His 162 placed
well ranked second in the ¢on-| most of the first-round choices.” him third aftee belng second on
ference in 1965 in punting, and} At aild:season Snyder waS|tyesday with a 79, Woe) Fetks
Glidewell is expected lo assume | third fighest scorer in the na-/ aq not shoot as well as usual,
Jim Terry's chores capably. | ton. although his 164 was good in re:
Jacobsen. who will play both| Last scasun Look and Sporting | jation to the rest of the field,
ways next fall, expressed the| News mumed Snyder to their '
foeting that the spring seaslon| first team All American selec:| “(Champ) Covington and
had Been rough bul profitabic.| tons, Snyder also received see | (John) Giles had good rounds
He soled, “There was good|md tenm All-Armerican honors) the first day. Covington had a
spirit, atu you cowbtt notlee im-|from the AP and UPI polls, as{lol of trouble Wednesday, bat
provement. Tommy Dews did| well as Irom the NBA conches'| it was Just one of those days,
pupecially well, bul everybody | designation. These two and Walter Danie)s,

fo and Bill Webb at tackle,

1800 West Morehead Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C, |

Phone ED 2-2414

TASTEE SUB

Also Complete Line of Short
Orders and Plate Lunches

Small and Large

stowed imoptovement os prac-
tee progressed."
ALTERED OFFENSE

While the only changes made
on clefenae concern fundament
al ways of playing (1, the Wild-
cat offense will took dliforent,
Next fall the Wiideats will run
irom a three-back [-formation,
with @ zprend end and o wing
back who may be in Ught or
split wide ns a Pankerback,

Conch Smith conaluded, “Nest
yoar we will be thinner in nem
bers that any future Davidson
toam. It (3 almost ceetain eat
Walter Greene ond Torrunty
Dews will rocolve AlLCanference
reoognition, But wo will make
no apulogles for the way we
play, We should have a guod
stgiind.*

PIZZAS

50 FLAVORS OF SHANE,
FLOATS, SODAS

TASTEE
FREEZ

MOORESVILLE

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
AT THE

GONDOLA RESTAURANT

W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.

CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOVING

THE BEST
iN

PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

