FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1966

THE DAVIDSONIAN

One Girl

Dear Todd,

Photos enclosed are for the Midwinters’ edi
tion. For years, THE DAVIDSONIAN has main
tained a tradition of running a special dance week
end section to remind readers that there is some
thing interesting on campus at such times: girls,
lots of them, coming out the windows practically.

Over the past two years, the presentation
hasn't varied at all. As a photographer, what one
does is lug around several cameras mounted with
great big, long, heavy, telephoto lenses and creep
up on girls at football games or basketball half
times or afterparties or even the College Union
and try to take these overly candid photos of girls
with contorted and unusual expressions on their
faces, hoping to make people think that they are
knowing strange fits of passion or something.

After enough pictures are amassed, twenty or
thirty maybe out of an original three or four hun-
dred, the editorial staff gets together on a Sunday
night before the weekend armed with rulers and
grease — and makes comments on how gross
some of the girls look and how did he ever get to
date her and you know what they’re going to do
after the game and choose eight or ten pictures and
then crop them, some exaggeratedly long and
skinny and some very square, always with some-
body's arm or beanie or strong tie or little boy sell
ing cokes jammed in each picture somewhere to

make it look busy. The: idea is to achieve a very
complicated-looking snappy layout

This has become very boring, Todd. So this
weekend, things will not be like they have been.

Do use these; for they are quite different.
Very simple, with no foreground and uncluttered
background, they are also. posed and show a com
plete girl for the most part, not just a face. She is
someone I know and will see again, not someone
who happened to stand out in a crowd because she
was tall or had bleached hair or was wearing at-
tention-getting clothing. Nor was she the very-
much-cared-for girl of a friend, who wanted her in
the paper because he was proud of her, so I wasn’t
partial in just that way, either.

__ Pictures of almost any but a photostatic va-
riety are editorial; they have to be. If this news-
paper is committed to devoting a fairly large por-
uon of its content and engraving account to such
an uncommon pursuit three or four times a year,
shouldn’t the responsible members of its staff try
to inject some content that they feel worthwhile, or
at least feel for, into the dictated format? That
is my aim in turning in this very simple: layout
taken with one normal camera in two very ordinary
places to yield three very straightforward rows of
photographs depicting one girl.

Thel

PAGE THREE

