@he Davidsantan

MEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BCDV

Published weekly by the slintents of Davidenn College during the echool sear, except
during helitavs and exaccination porlads Emered as seco Clmss maior at Davithscut,

WO,

Saat Boyte
Editar-in-C inf

PAGE TWO

Bit. WATSON
Business Marvager

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20. 1967

Council Initiative

The Student Council iz making onc
of ite whaer moves in putting pressure
on the collage to get started on the
Blue Skv curriculum revislan, =:

Fow things are harder to fight than
the sincere statements of 5 college ac-
ministration that snvs it desires to
improve bet cannel, The trustees’
statement last week that they dict not
are any ftranelal way to start the Blue
Sky program secms te be just that.

When someone bends aver tnck-
‘ward ot least in speech to help. it is
hard to te!) them that they would be
doing more good by leaning ferward
into the job. The Student Council's

lan to setbmil to Dean of the Faculty
Frontis W Johnston 2 Hast of innova-
tions that it believes should be under-
taken lnmediately is one good wav to
fet around avoiding ihe anpearnnce
of biting the lands that Freed.

Instead of simply ealling names or
condemning the trustees, the councll
Wilk a1 least keep attention focused on
the currleuliin proposals.

The value in auch discussion will be
in preventing the death by neglect of
ihe Blue Sky propesats. In view of the
secrecy which bas shrouded the work
of the Blue Sky Committee ever aince
its beginning such a death could he
quite likely Despite all of the bally-
hoo about the inereasingly important
rote of the student in the deciding of

International

Members of the college community
who have noted the benefits of having
students from throughout the world
here for a year wnder the auspices. of
the Richardson Scholar Program re-
eelved a jolt when it was learned this
week tit the Richardson Foundation
plans to withdraw it support of the
prottram in the near future.

To lose the international Flavor
provided ty these students would hurt
Davidson greatly. The most obviatis
benefit that Amecioan students re-
ceive from Richardson Scholars is
simply that of being atte ta aséoeiaic

ith peapte from parts of the world

oreler to Uneir wwn, to disctiss insues .
of worldwite inportance frankis and

openly with students from diferent

watianal perspectives. and to learn

more aheut other countries ‘and the

problem: facing them.

Bit it te post as smpartant that these
forvign slidants sre exposed to a
United States that they can actually
see and iouck, net one Liev have to
tearn about through movies and maga-
alnes.

Ecuadorian Fred Ehlers, a Richard-
son Scholar in 1964, told of the situa-
tien existing in many vountries. “The
United States sends foreign ait to
South American ports every yeur.
People see the boxes stamped ‘USA’,
bul thev do not see the Faces. and they
ask, ‘Who are the Americans?’" Be-
sides broadening the outloak of stu
dents at Davidson, the Richardson

FULBRIGHT ON

the college's fuitrr, the kev Issue of
ctitclelum reviden bar remalaad
sturet nut enlv from students bol olso
from the faculty for most of the iagt
year by Dean of the Faculty Frontis
Johnsten.

Perhaps Bean Johnston's secrac
mid the besttation of the trustees fe
all part of Davidson's love fir the
dramatic, Although it mav not be very
beneficial 10 education, the vislon of
back-roam lobbying that leads to the
amnotuncenent of a great new day far
the Davidson currteulum ie certainly
aé Useatric as the “Decade of Destiny”
image. The only problem here is that
eurricalum revision is not the same
thing os fund-raising. Creativity is
niore important than dramatics.

Of vourse avaldjing discussien of
the Blue Sky proposals does allow the
trustees to go on without confronting
the very real changes in educational
philosopisy that are inherent la the
Blue Sky program. Of course if the
trustees do not want tn face up to
anything more revolutionary {han new
buitdings their hesitation and the Blue
Sky's secrovy is understandable.

If the Student Couneil does nol Jet
its efferts be sidetracked, we may
son have some sort of answer to the
question abaut just how opve to pro.
gressive change the trustees really
Bre.

Flavor

Scholarship program casbles the
Scholars to learn who these Americans
are,

One divect outgrowth of the Rieh-
arisen program was He begtuning of
the Project of the America® by Ehlers
while he was here. PRAM Ls intended
4n remedy the very laok of under-
sivoding that Ehlers noted.

Last vear ane English Scholar wat
iistrumenstal in organizing Project
Opportunity In Charlotte to help un-
derprivileged children. One Japaaess
student tpox ihe lead in carerylug out
a “Japanese Night" at the (ollugé
Union In which students became oe
neainted With Japanese customs and
tradittond. .

Stholgrs also give an beitecnational
Aair to sporis, Olten in the past
Schelare ive pacticipated wiflely in
zoceer: this year there ts a Scholar
whe is leading the svecer team In scour.
ing and enother Scholar who fs x.
fected to play a prest deal of varsity
tenniz this vear.

The beneflis of the program range:
from the athlete and nolitieal to the
dramatic and artistic. Te deprive the
students af these benefits is te deprive
them of considerable international
exposure and experience. PRAM alone
would ihtave made the entire years of
the Richardson program worthwhile,
but there are many other benefits to
be enjoyed by the college community.
We sincerely hope that these benefits
do not cease.

DISSENT

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

T:
Open House

Dear Badidwe,

Thm was when Davidson
studengs Isadt ponheroe im go
and nothing i» do and every
Sunday might all faculty mal
maimitistrmlion fsucats wart
mpen to the student buidy.

As the twenticth corntury
crept (iehiv ioto thi EMed-
monk of North Carrvfina,
rauny af Davidson’ former
troitiddons were uffmced, bet
faptuanately the practice of
Opes Howse wiel nat CoEl prey
fe the deperanallaedd eduen
tien Usut became the rule
rather this the eaeuption an
Amoertenn enmimyooses.

ft sail seonaiitza, ultinonph
fa an asnattedty diminished
form, nad covh Sundiy night
the host walks from 0 ti 10.

While arantina that che
Winsephere at open houses
mury be atfebele artifice. |e
hs utten far freer thin that
between a professoe and his
siudents ino the claserdom,
and discussions can be held

om sebferts thal arilnarity
would mat arise tn the refur
biished, lyut still tealilagosl.
hails. of Chambers,

‘This Sunday. for the firak
dime tds year, there is a
Iniely lurce aumber of jare-
fessors pocticipathiar in the
Cun Howse procram. It be
hinaves Davison Gentienvon:
win mee mt all interested In
the crotinestion af the pav-
prdite te visit dbone pen
heuses,

Sadenks phd hove on
Lroabte fineliry the profue
sore’ homes, There ts at fan-
Hliy-tdinloisiration directiury
in the Uniton ty simply ask.
ing other stilentis ong ‘can
(Incl omt ohere professors
live.

‘Uf al) else frills yout can ot
wt the Nest haase you tome
tu after you Jenec the cam:
pun, far in a sdriall rw Ube
Duvidion useryoou knotws

everything about everybody.

if by attending am open
Teise tie student gives up
an evening waotehing ‘TV.
studying in thy library, we
garnuing plensure in the
Quwoon City af (io Sowth, che
pratense -sometkines puters
thriug a peemt dewl more,

As oie peodemot pitt it
“Besides the lomritmble Few
io come fir the refresh
nents, Idf the wuidents mre:
neuple i've myver svi betore
who ening to sae Jf I'to for
ronl, Another rroup cums te
tery to qnill up Ita irude and
toy ihe tiene teaivn all bitt
aod the athern start a serlous
thiscussion, It's 11,7

AS Alffat Nacth Whiteland
anicl, eduisation is of na wt
to ws unilil our twhbooks are
tmizned nod we Inve foegutten
adi of the embracing we dive
over lenroed,

Bnpeltilly Duividson Open
Hane oocteiutes i that
more listing edueution of the

ywhele tri.

By iciving ecantinuedl su
port lo the Open House yen
Aram duidesits will uphold a
fradition ‘wivich em be 49

0
Ghost Still Alive

fntegmal part of four yenrx af

were liver, the “Daviclsuin.

Experience,”

DON HOYT ‘7
Bavidron Cotlige

Wake Forest Ponders
Student Rights Proposal

A proposed -siutlent loll! wh
+ionts b reouivind Rerives
pthention {rot uclerinéstratiets
and faculty wl Wibe Soroct
Univornity goordiag wm the
Stodunt aewspoper Wier.

The sintement of elatts.
termed “9 unique utletnp ba
outline the ebphte and free
doms of suadente,™ wits che
veloped ly ten national edu
entlonmn goeciaons repie.
sentinad ndministraiors. fu
why and stuilents.

Among the pringiples 12
vanoud oret

— Educational institutions
should admit any students
inocting «othe «= -e,aitalished
alundards.

Pridection should = |i
provided agninsl “preputhiaes
of qapriciuas acidentio eval
onison.'

— Stinlent apganigalians
ahoibd fave Irecdaims of apis.
fon snd arderty actian, Teey
alyogiel bu free lo Envite Apoak.
ers of thelr chonsitre,

— Student  poebdicuttinme
sheyld be fret aod wnoensur.
ech

— Sindents should be free
to orgmnize. even «her thelr
grounsare alfiMinted with out
aide ovganiention=.

- Student individuals and
group: ahoutd kave definite
mening to participate fa une
achval's policy matters,

yas, SY KELPInG The Town Dey we Can REMAIN HOWY and BR Gentle MEW

Persuasion Is Better Than Shocking

ED. NOTE: This is tho third of «
serlesz of four articles excerpied by
permission of Random House Inc. tras
The Arrogance of Power, by U.S.
Senater J, Witilam Fulbefoht, D-Ark.,
Copyright, 1985, by the authar,

The wimiom nnd productivity af the
Protest movemunt of atudents, profes.
sors. clergy. and others may well be
Quwestionel, hat Weir cournce, decent,
ated patrintisin cennot be Gooltesk, At the
very Jeart the student protest movement
of the sixties is a open! and imeNectunl
Improvement on Lhe punty raids of the
fities.

in fact it Is a preat deal mare: ét in an
expression of the national ennagienve uted
n manifestation of traditional American
idealism.

As me university publication charac
turhzed it. the “mew rndboal movement
“ts oot shinflaw and sopivemeric. it is not
based an the tracitiann! formula of get
erativnal deflance, nnd it In act the re-
sult wf an infusion of foreign idenbagies.
Xe in bosad insteall on purmmnal disun-
chaintioent amd the feeling of dese eoddl-
els that dey aust tepudiate mn oorruMmed
vinkin Wf sootery ond replnec it with a
puher nae.”

Ne staibent generdtian io cocent history
bat. foved! tooth Weiter lbfetioe puzesdbilt-
tins mol greater short-term weoertniiies
than the present oo. The tripht pusablsil-
Itles are thote wffardbed bw a prusperaim
and dynamic Amecica; the uoeertaisties
ore those of n ervel antl costly war in
Aga, o war which Inas already talen
thowsainds of American lives, a war
lose emf! ig not In sight, a war which
muy indeed grow lorger in seplp and
Hestructiveness,

The central isswe in the debate here

at home — the issue on which all other
questions turn -— is whether the sacrifices
impcoe! oo the present generation at
youn Americans are justified by the
stakes of the war, whether the diversion
of hundrats af thousands of ovr young
men from their hemes and jobs ond
famelins iil yield rewards af frardom
and security comeimneongurate ‘with their
sacrifices.

ht in one of file's injusticun that joung
ven must fight the wars that ahler men
begin. To a great extent, thurefare. the
Uves and lopes of the peesent stadent
generation turn on ihe wisdom and
Jedarnent of the mes of an older genero-
tion lo wham the people have entrustedt
palitical powar.

Suraiy, considering whnt they theets-
subves hnve at stoke, it fs not improper
for younst peonde to question the wlhalom
Bed judanvent of the mokorn ct our far:
eign potioy, Surely it is the right of
citizens in @ dematracy., especinily alti
zens af mililary age, to ascertain that
Vhe great decistirnea of nr nul peace arc
made with enre amd deliberation.

Tre cabling of pubtie men to account
enquentinnnhty odds ta thelr hurdend, bot
the oomrenlence of poiicy-makern is nut
gaftielent rinson for the nbething down
tid public dhaencdnn.

The respoosihtities of gh atfioe are.
buribenontne Indeed tot they are barne,
Jen at he eemormberud. by men who outlive
Jv souebt or freely secepted them. men
who accepted wot anly the obligatiinn to
use power bul the ablation ta uercoutnt
far its we an wal

When farmer Press Secretary Bill
Moyers reparied with respect ta the
Vietnam: protests the Presldent‘a “sur
prise that any one citizen would feo

towasd his country in a wry that is net
consistent with the national interest,“
tue was denying tho existence of a ques:
tian os to where, in fact, the national
interest bles.

fhe arevwer, une must conrede, in
elusive, but thece is indeed o quuntinn
and Ct fs a sign of the goad bealth af this
nation that the question is being widely
and clearly posed,

With due respect for Uno honesty and
gatelatism of the student demonstrations,
L would nffer n word of caution to the
goung pempie who lave organseod and
participated tn them. As most politicians
discover aenmer or inter, the most dramn-
tie expressive af grievances ty not neces:
shrily the moul effective.

That wauld seem 10 be especially troc
In the United Stutes, » coutttry easily
and axeessively alarmed by expressions
of dissent.

Wo are, for better or worse, ait esbet-
tially conservative seolety: in such 1
Avoiely soft words nre likely io garry
mare weight than tnreh yorda and the
most eliective diaiont th dissent cxpresas-
ed in an acderky, which if to say nh con-
servilige manny.

Foc these rencons such direet motion fg
‘the burning of draft card: probably dav
Taare to retnrd than in aivance the views
of thas: who tnke anch action, The bern
ing of o drafe card f& n symbiniic ovt,
really « foem of expecsabin rather than
of avtion, and it Is stapld amd vinalictive
dit purtish ft us a erigae,

Buc it in ales on thar act, oewice
boeause lt is shucking rather thon per-
gunsive to mnat Americins and becaunn
{t eampanes thy tnidividnel to poraonel risk
without political reward.

The student, bike the paliticinn, mist
contider nut only huw to say what he
means but also hw to say it persunsive—
Iv. The aturver, I think, is that to speak
persunsivaly ano must spelt in the idéom
of tie society In which one lives.

The form of protest thnt olpht be re
warding tn Paris or Rome. to say nothing
at Salgan ar Sante Domingo. watt be
Olelately disastrous tn Washington.

Frustrating though lt may ‘sc tr some
Anterieins, Jt is noouthieless o fact that.
in Atveciin the messages that gel direogh
dire those thal are sent threugh ehonnels,
through the slow, cumbersome instites-
tiennl channels devised by the founding
fothors fin 1782,

The gol order and democracy of our
noclety Lherefore depend on ev kevping
agen af these channels. An long an avery
tendency of mpinion ean get a fall and
respecttul hearing fram tie elected rep:
resenintives of tho people, on Jong as
the clasuroom from primary sclaol to
Hradinte seloul i a place where freedom
of thowtlt in welvommed and enovurapetl,
the leach-ins snd the draft-card burnings
and the domansiravnns are unlikely to
Yecome tne principn) forms of dissent
in Acnorion.

IL is only when tie Commress fnikr te
eholtenge the Eaecutiven, When the op-
position fmils to oppose, when politicians
jotn inn spurious comsensan behind con.
drovueslal poticles, wml when institwtions
wf lvarning sneriioe traditinmal fanctinar
fo the ehart-terin advantages of associn-
Hon wtih the government in puwer, that
the campuses and streets nnd public
squares WS Anterion are bikely to beoonse
the forums of a direct and disorderly
gamocracy.

-:

‘:

4
a,

The .
Rutt ETN ¢ ~ *
B ORED Y

By HEYWARD CARTER
Assotiale Editor

A VW tn The Indianapolis 500

Now that the ‘Cats have managed to make It half-
way through the football season. it may be a good time
9 took around and see how they've been oing and
especially to fook ahead to see what they may have to

i next few years,

ae aes record al mid season is not bad’ for a small
Southern Conference football team. Lor Davidson it 15
the same old kind of recard we've been having since
any of ws have been around, The excuses, loa, are all
the same: you Just can't wit ‘em all, whal do you Gx-
pect of a team from a schod) wilt only 1000 hays:
ihure ure not enough athletic scholarsh{pe, acaderitic
standards arc too high at Devidson to let many lop
fooihuli players in; ete. ete, ete.

And they are all true—e can't win them all, as
has beun shawn every year for Ihe past twenty or sv.
There is not a very big student pool fer the team to
draw from. The athletic department is Mnsited in the
number of scholarships it has, and thus it is forced to
further limit the ones thal go to football players, Mest
good football players can't get into Davidson because
of its standards. and many of the ones who can choose
not to come because of the academic load they'll have
{o carry in addition to their football career for the next
four years. Every excuse makes sense in ex laining
why we just never quite seem to make the football big-
time, even in the Southern Conference.

But now rumor has it that Instead of being con-
tent to rest on our comfortable, if not lofty. post as
the bourgeoise of the Southern Conference, the David-
son College Wildcats are, to borrow a much used
phrase, EXPANDING!

To me this makes less than little sense.

Far some time now both student and faculty have
been discussing the possibilities of the de-emphasis of
football. The subject, in fact, is probably the second
most beaten-to-death topic (next to drinking regula-
tions) on campus. Now, it seems, the athletic powers
have finally come up with a solution both to our tradi:
ional mediocrity and to the problem of whether we.
should back down a little from our present football
pretentions or should keep the status que. The answer
they give bs apparently for us to take on even bigger
and better teams. We are not content to lose to Rich-
mond and Murman—we want to ge big Ume with teams
like Virginia and Vanderbilt.

As one faculty member pointed owt recently, it's
like autering a Volkswagen in the Indianapolis 500—
we just don't have the machine for It. If we have such
a hard Lime keeping up with the competition where we
are, we're sure to be left in the dust when we graduate
ourselves to the big boys, if we have the same kind of
team we are used to having,

Wherein, possibly. Hes the athletic department's
answert expand the whole football program from the
number of scholarships on up. With the “new look” in
scheduling it is elther this or losing consistently. If a
bigger, stronger team is proposed, based on more ath-
letie seholarships for the football department, us it
seems it will have to be, it appears evident that some-
thing at Davidson, academically speaking, bas got {o

1 can't see thal increasing the number of scholar-
ships to n number large enough to allow us tn compete
equally with schools of the caliber af Epst Carolina
and, possibly, Virginia and the like could help but harm
Davidson academically in the long run. I don’t mean
that standards would be lowered as a whole, but unless
we Want to start a tradition of football funk-outs, same
pressure could eventually be brought on professors (0
Possibility about which many of the faculty is now
concerned), at perhaps a PE. major would be adopted
for those who couldn't niake it any other way—the pos-
sibilities are limitless, but none of them are very at-
tractive,

The palnt is, who needs it? Why can’t we al feast
teave foutball al Davitlson where it is, if not actually
de-emphasize it, instead of pushing it even harder than
before? If we want glory, let's stick to a top busketball
program, whith is easier to carry out with a student

ody and athletic budget the size of ours. To Inerease
our football department and senpe would only increase
our faothall ond athletic headaches—and God knows
we've got enough already.
