Che BDavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT 80DY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year. except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson,

N. C.

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

a

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1967

What Price

The announcement this week of the
impending complete renovation of
Chambers Building marks a signifi-
cant step forward in the college’s de-
velopment. The decision to make far-
reaching changes, rather than piece-
meal alterations as the needs arrive
and are too great to ignore, is a real-
istic one and one that will prove to be
economical in the long run.

A half-million-dollar renovation is
no small project, and the decision to
undertake the project is a salute to
the fiscal soundness of the college. But
it indicates a dangerous trend that has
been popping up in various places:
The college may be becoming more a
business than it is an educational in-
stitution.

Significant decisions are made on
the basis of a dollars-cents considera-
tion. Priority for money in the athletic
department goes to the money-making
enterprises. while the more mundane
aspects are played down. Basketball’s
recruiting budget, which does not in-
clude regular salary expenses, is 10
times as great as that of the intra-
mural program. The per capita differ-
ences in the two is-astounding. It's the
old case of the rich get richer, and the
poor, poorer.

Consider the case of the Chambers
renovation. The improvements will
doubtless improve Davidson’s image to

Growth?

visitors, make working conditions
more pleasant and generally improve
morale.

But such expenditures strike home
as inadequate when contrasted with
the meager commitments made thus
far in such areas as reducing faculty
loads and class sizes and strengthening
the library. Such changes are less
spectacular but unquestionably more
significant in the long run.

The same reticence in academic
matters extends beyond the financial.
The entire institution is affected with
an inertia that makes any sort of sig-
nificant changes difficult, when not
impossible. Rumblings from the Blue
Sky Committee indicate that the dras-
tic overhaul once predicted may be
less far-reaching than originally plan-
ned. The faculty refuses to give stu-
dents the autonomy needed for adults.

Part of the responsibility for the
static position may be laid on the stu-
dent body, for not using its latent pow-
ers to pressure faculty and adminis-
tration. But a group of educated men
should not need to wait for under-
graduate pressure to make reforms:
other colleges comparable to Davidson
are going ahead with drastic changes.
Davidson will be left in the dust if it
refuses to acknowledge that the Twen-
tieth Century is here.

Credibility Gap Revisited

Another chapter in the ever longer
book on the so-called “credibility gap”
has been written by the Washington
Post. Two government agencies whose
activities are even more obscure than
the FBI, the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy and the US. Information Agency,
are publishing, anonymously, books
dealing with. U.S. foreign policy, al-
legedly unbiased but in actuality prej-
udiced toward the Establishment posi-
tion.

To US. citizens accustomed to such
tactics as wiretapping and blatant ly-
ing in official pronouncements, such a
revelation comes as no surprise. But
the odium of such actions by agencies
forbidden to act in the realm of intel-.
ligence gathering or dissemination in
the U.S. is undiminished.

.A typical case works like this: The
agency withholds certain information,
necessary for a book, on security
grounds, and agrees to release it to an
author in exchange for rights to edit
the entire book—not just the classi-
fied parts—a la William Manchester.

The book is then published by a pri-
vate printing house, but with no men-
tion of CIA or USIA participation. Of-

ten, one of the agencies will financial-
ly subsidize publication or an agency
official will even write the book. The
difficulty arises when a legitimate
publishing house is involved in ordi-
nary. independently-written books as
well as propaganda devices of the gov-
ernment.

The entire process casts a pall over
the book scene, when the uninformed
reader has no way of knowing which
books are written independently of
government editing and censorship
and which have fallen prey to the
agencies’ blue pencil.

“It is not government money or gov-
ernment interest itself that sullies
books,”’ says the Post. “All one wants
is that government acknowledge its in-
volvement and keep its hands off the
writer's work. To ask this is to ask for
no more than the government de-
mands of charitable foundations.

“But now there is a double activity,
the secret suppression and creation of
history, which reinforces the fears of
American writers that their govern-
ment cannot be trusted and that it is
not mature or brave enough to subsi-
dize the open dissemination of ideas.”

Moratorium On AB

Following are excerpts from an ad-
address by Louis T. Benezet, president
of the Claremont Graduate School and
University Center, to the National Con-
ference of Academic Deans In Los An-
geles several weeks ago.

Over the past decade, the teachers’
war cry has been, “Excellence!’’ This
cowed the students for a while; but in
the past two years they have sum-
moned their forces enough to hur!
back their own rebel yell, likewise
consisting of one word. “Relevance!”

A prevailing faculty legend is that
students are coming from high school
so well prepared in their subjects that
the first two years of college bore
them stiff. Like most generalities
about college education, the claim is
innocent of statistics.

We ride on an academic carousel.
Presidents and deans chase after pro-
fessors pleading with them to teach
more but rewarding them for teaching
less. Professors chase students with
tighter academic requirements and
more specialized subject matter, under
the banner of excellence. Students
chase the administration asking for
more freedoms on and off the campus.

Let us face it: the 1960’s have not
been a vintage decade for humanism,
except in what has been shown to be
Jacking. This is affecting education
more than we realize.

Students individually are more dis-
turbed, more wracked by anxiety,
more inclined to leave college in
search of meaning, and less receptive
to organized campus life in its various
forms. There is a workaday grimness
about today’s students. ;

For the student already happily in-
tent upon his specialfy, increasing ac-
ademic rigor can serve as a compli-

ment, a sort of early invitation into
the scholar's guild. But for the stu-
dent, typically the sophomore, unsure
of what he wants or how much of a
specialty, or just why he is in college
at all, increasing the academic rigor
amounts to going past the rack on
which the student feels already
stretched and giving it a friendly turn.

The sad fact persists that in all our
decades of college reforms—and there
have been some — we have scarcely
budged an inch from the overriding
faculty criterion of success for student
response: grades.

What I propose is a national mora-
torium on the A.B. degree. I would do
this pending a study of its true mean-
ing and definition for modern times.
It is time to admit that “Bachelor of
Arts” at present means little or noth-
ing as a symbol for a liberal educa.
tion. ;

It may be time to declare the formal
general education movement dead in
America, to cease bowing to its corpse,
and to pursue the spirit of broad
learning in fresher ways. Mechanical
general education requirements have
never really worked; why don’t we ad-
mit it? Requirements to take introduc.
tory courses in all three major divi-
sions were first introduced 60 years
ago. Students still speak of them as
something to get over, like a child-
hood disease. A year later, the reten-
tion factor for many is nil.

We should have a thorough study
on the A.B. comparable to the historic
Flexner report on medical education
in the early 20th century.

In my judgment, there has not been
a period in recent decades when the
personal motives of students and the
personal motives of professors were
wider apart.

ABOLISHES SPACE, TIME

Technology Precludes Non-Involvement ©

By BILL SCHMICKLE
Guest Columnist

My subject is the impera-
tive of technological change;
my emphasis is on Marshall
McLuhan. There is no way to
discuss this adequately in a
short editorial. Therefore. I
am _ presenting a very few
ideas concerning this subject.

In Understanding Medie Mc-
Luhan states: ‘After three
thousand years of explosion,
by means of fragmentary and
mechanical technologies. the
Western world is imploding.
During the mechanical ages
we had extended our bodies in
space.

“Today. after more than a
century of electric technology.
we have extended our central
nerveus system itself in a glob-
al embrace, abolishing both
space and time as far as our
planet is concerned.

“Rapidly, we approach the
final phase of the extensions
of man—the technological sim-
ulation of our consciousness
when the creative process of
knowing will be collectively
and corporately extended to
the whole of human society,
much as we have already ex
tended our senses and our
nerves by the various me-
dia...

“Any extension .. . affects
the whole psychic and social
complex. . . . Today action
and reaction occur almost at
the same time. We actually
live mythically and integrally,
as it were. but we. continue to
think in the old. fragmented
and time patterns of the pre-
electric age.”

McLuhan maintains that the
technology of literacy enabled
Western man to be able to
carry out the ‘‘most danger-
ous social operations with com-
plete detachment"’ which was
a posture of non-involvement.

He continues: ‘‘In the elec-
tric age, when our central
nervous system is technolog-
ically extended to involve us
in the whole of mankind and
to incorporate the whole of
mankind in us, we necessar-
ily participate. in depth, in
the consequences of our every
action. It is no longer possible
to adopt the aloof and dissocia-
ated role of the literate West-
erner.”’

The importance of this hy-
pothesis becomes clear when
one considers the results of its
imperatives for total response
in contemporary society which
is predominantly composed. as
T see it, of the common alien-
ated mass man.

“The alienated man.” states
Mathilde Niel, ‘does not shink
or act by himself: he alwavs
refers to something or somo
one outside himself. to tradi
tion. a creed. an ideology. a
transcendent being. or a su.
perior. He does not know how
to live either in a dialogue
with others or in an interic:
peace: he always needs some
one to worship or to serve. to

: an .
Lis Weeks)
Reakare
AC

istert c
tx.
thet
in thet
Laces

hate or to fight.

**He spends his life pursuing
something, either a material
end which has turned into an
absolute (desire for wealth,
comfort, the symbols of pres-
tige), or a spiritual end, also
turned into an absolute, which
leads him to disdain life and
the world...”

Basically, he is the conform-
ist. According to Fromm, his
conformity is a product of
the unbearable aloneness, and
hence anxiety, which he feels
as a modern man freed from
the “bonds of pre-individual-
istic society.” His conformity
or adherence to the previously
stated concepts is an “escape
from the burden of his free-
dom into new dependencies
and submission.”

The crucial problem arises
when the desire to escape from
individualism adopts technol-
ogy as the escape mechanism.

The condition of man today
in Western society is one of
rapidly changing culture pat-
terns dictated primarily by
technological development.

Men who find themselves in-
capable of coping with this
rapid transformation become
insecure.:and_ subsequently
many seek new dependencies
in which they can gain secur-
ity and with which they can
identify. One of these is spe-
cialization and dependence up-
on technology.

Often this is caused by what
McLuhan calls ‘‘narcissus nar-
cosis."' a psychological state in
which men are numbed by
technological developments (e.
g. the slow adjustment by be-
havior patterns to radio and

television). Many of these
men, knowingly or unknowing-
ly, have terminated their cre-
ative capacities by so strictur-
ing themselves; these are the
alienated masses.

The liberated man must
bring his views inte predom-
inance thus affecting an envi-
ronment in which men can ful-
ly develop their potentialities
as free individuals, ‘“‘advanc-
ing to the full realization of
positive freedom which is bas-
ed upon the uniqueness and in-
dividuality of man.” If he can-
not, it appears that man will
become a dependent automa-
ton incapable of self-realiza-
tion and thus true happiness.

Greater than this, though,
will be the gap between his
moral and social development
and that of technology. In so-
cieties technologically implod-
ed like the West, conservatism
grows: it grows out of man's
need for stability and security.

Already there is widespread
discussion of mankind's moral
immaturity in relation to the
moral imperatives of nuclear
weaponry. Supposedly, man's
knowledge in toto will more
than double in the next dec-
ade: this will be primarily in
the field of technology. Our
philosophical systems are not
keeping up with this develop-
ment.

To paraphrase McLuhan,
science today insists on ruth-
lessly tearing away the false
securities we have built up in
the names of political ideol-
ogies and philosophical sys-
terns: science is forcing us to
confront it and its absolute de-
mand for realism face to face.
and to become involved and

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

MacNair Rights Errors
In Flag Incident Report

Dear Editor:
The article which appeared

in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN.

concerning the flag incident in
the assembly was not one
which merely contained care-
less errors in fact. There have
been too many “mistakes” in
reporting the activities of the
Young Republican Club in the
past. The reason for this is a
matter which others can an-
swer better than I.

But what in fact happened.
as opposed to what was re-
ported, ought to be cleared up.

1) The article implied that
the Young Republican Club
was responsible for the flag.
This is false. Two people, act-
ing individually with neither
our approval nor disapproval,
nor with our knowledge. were
responsible. One of the two

was not a member of the YRC.

2) It- was reported that at the
meeting of Wednesday, Febru-
ary 8. the club *overwhelming-
ly defeated a motion to disas-
sociate any connection with

thé action in chapel.” There
was no such motion introduced
or voted upon at that meeting.

What the article probably
had in mind was a motion to

-apologize for the event. It was

precisely because the club was
not associated in the first
place with what occurred that
an apology was impossible and
that the motion was defeated.
To have approved the motion
would have implied involve-
ment.

3) The flag which the YRC
is to buy for the auditorium
will be a flag and staff of the
kind found in any auditorium.
There is a case (too obvious
to mention) for having one
there in spite of the fact, as
the student body president so
astutely pointed out, ‘‘no flags
representing the Soviets, Chi-
nese, or National Liberation
Front of Vietnam have been
displayed."’

JIM MacNAIR
Davidson YRC
Davidson College

concerned, quite regardless
of any point of view!"

In concluding I wish to
stress the importance of un-
derstanding fully the nature of
change in society today. I be-
jeve that Marshall McLuhan
in spite of all his shortcom-
ings, is prime source material
for this understanding. As he
states: “By knowing how tech-
nology shapes our environ-

ment we can transcend its ab
solutely determining power.
... My entire concern is to
overcome the determinism
that results from the deter
mination of people to ignore
what is going on."

To be litera.e, one must to-
day cultivate that “total sen-
sorium’’ of man; the printed
word has become only a fac-
tion of the new literacy.

The Gospel my scum may
According
To John

A MODEST PROPOSAL

| HAVE SAID before that I’m not a crusader, but
I guess it only takes sufficient cause to inspire one’s
revolutionary zeal, and this week I’m inspired.

I hope my appeal will be heard by members of the
fair sex as they are welcomed to the campus for the
Midwinters retreat. I’m sure that the perennial wine,
women, and song column for this time of year is looked
for, but I regret to say that it must be left for next
year’s columnist. At this time I have more important
matters with which I wish to deal. I have dreamed of
the headlines that my idea may inspires: “Bailey Chal-
lenges Midwinters Format,” “Classic Winter Weekend
Doomed,” “Revolution at Davidson.”

MY PROPOSAL involves putting variety in this,
the second, of the three big weekends at Davidson. If
you are tired of the concert and after-party drag then
perhaps you will understand me. Three times during
the year three-fourths of the student body has female
companionship on the campus for an entire weekend.
Let us take advantage of this blessing. Think of the
possibilities for real intellectual advancement.

At least once during the year let us involve our-
selves in two days of concentrated study and discussion
with members of the opposite sex. Let’s make Mid-
winters a search.for enlightenment. For once let us
feel that we have gained lasting benefit from this week-
end. The amazing thing about this proposal is that it
can be fulfilled within the very institutional framework
in which we already are working. This proposal would
not even require the approval of the Trustees or ad-
ministration. And that is revolutionary in itself. Hear
me, curriculum revision committees! 7

IN PLACE of after-parties the fraternities could
have seminar-type meetings in which topics of general
interest would be discussed. Each fraternity could ap-
point a committee to work on the designated topic. For
example, the Kappa Alpha brotherhood might discuss
“The Emerging South Today,” Phi Gamma Delta—
“Building a Better Body,” Sigma Alpha Epsilon—“How
to Win Friends and Influence People,” Lingle Manor—
“Toward Better TV Viewing,” Kappa Sigma—‘“The So-
cial Graces,” etc.

These discussions would take place at the regular
after-party times and with the serving of the now legit-
imate “heifer-highball” right on campus interest should
be stimulated. Yes, this is one mixed drink in which all
may imbibe without any fear of recrimination. Of
course, additional seminars and speakers would be pro-
vided at odd times. Some possibilities are: Mr. E. N.
Linker on “Writing Your Own Ticket to Any Place in
the World,” Mr. C. W. Stacks on “Winning Basketball,”
and Mr. Robert Sailstad on “Chambers Basement: Da
vidson’s Best-Kept Secret.”

s ® ¢

BUT THE SEMINARS, discussions and brief lec-
tures would be subordinated to large assemblies. which
would replace the usual concert. Again, Davidson has a
great deal of local talent on which to draw. The topics
would be treated in great detail. For example, we could
have a Speaker on “How to Build and Fly Your Own
Frisbee or “The Care, Cleaning, and Organization of
Gnpme’s Briefcase.” Or we could gain the collabora-
tion of Hattic’s in a treatment of “The Wall Mural as
Decoration For Yuur Dining Room.”

This new concept in Midwinters is guaranteed to
assure that your date will remember her weekend at
Davidson. If you are looking for an entirely new con-
cept in Weekends send in your suggestions to someone,
and they may be processed or filed. You might be do.
ing a service toward building a bigger and better David-
son, which it seems we are all most interested in doing.

A CHALLENGE

THE WARM DAYS of February cause one to look
ahead to the spring. The thought of spring brings the
same immediate thought to the mind of everyone—cro-
quet. Yes, the time is approaching when the campus
vat once again ring with the many clicks of mallet upon

T got out the old mallet and went out onto the lawn
for a few practice swings. Smooth and easy (wouldn't
want to pull a muscle this early in the season), but it
seems that mallet gets heavier each year, or am I just
getting old? The loft on the face of the mallet will have
to be altered as I will need more roll in the coming
season than I have been accustomed to in the past.

The shaft in the old mallet will need to be short-
ened a little because I am bent with the burden of too
much work. It has Botten so the college man hardly has
time to practice his croquet anymore, but Pll find the
time. I'll have to.

t e =

EDITOR LESESNE and | are already in training,
and we do hereby publicly challenge, on behalf of THE
DAVIDSONIAN, any two other players to the annual
croquet match which will be held on the lawn in front
of Chambers at 2:30 P.M. on Saturday, April 15 (Spring
Frolics). The challenge has not been accepted during
my four years at Davidson, and it is doubtful that The
Miscellany will pick up the remnants of the Seripts ‘n’
Pranks team and accept this gracious offer from the
reigning champions.

; ere is more than one challenger to the cham-
pion DAVIDSONIAN team a playoff will be necessary
to determine who gets the privilege of trying to bring
down the champs and win the tradition-riddled loving
cup (if we can dig it out of our trophy case). Note: all
teams must be representatives of a specific entity on

campus; the faculty is welco
that it can stand the pace. come to compete if it feels
