Che Bavidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT 80DV

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schuo! year. except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

N. C

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1967

A Busy Board

Five years ago the action taken to-
day by the Board of Trustees would
have been so revolutionary as to be
inconceivable at Davidson. Today the
action appears to be just another in-
dication of the improving attitude of
all those involved in the college.

Students are likely not to realize
the significance of trustee acceptance
of the Faculty Constitution, but its
unanimous acceptance by the faculty
two weeks ago indicates importance
attached to the document by that body.
Trustee approval of the Residence Hall
Association is another progressive
step that holds great potential for
student life although the majority of
students may not be well enough ac-
quainted with the program to appre-
ciate the improvements which it may
initiate. The fact that the trustees
were willing to indicate their approval
of what is essentially a student-admin-
istration program before the plan had
been considered by the faculty dis-
plays the confidence which the trus-
tees have in the cooperation between
students and the administration.

Even the lack of trustee action on
the social affiliation plan reflected
the wishes of the main proponents of
the program. It is regretable that the
trustees did not see fit to express any
formal opinion of the “college coun-
cil” idea that was recently endorsed
unanimously in principle by the Stu-

dent Council. Their stated reasoning
for failing to take a formal stand was
that while they did not have an initial
objection to the concept, they had not
received the proposal in time to give
it any detailed consideration.

This time element is one of the two
big faults that must be noted in the
meeting of the board .today. On cam-
pus for less than two days, the trustees
faced one of the heaviest agendas in
years. The effects of this crowded
schedule are indicated by the less than
progressive discussion last night as the
trustees arrived tired from travels.
Only as they were able to recover
some from this weariness did they he-
gin to be more open-minded, accord-
ing to several administrative represen-
tatives who worked with them. In light
of the heavy workload which tradition-
ally faces the board at their spring
meeting it would seem to be beneficial
to the college that the meeting time
be extended for another day.

This expanded time would indirect-
ly help correct the other major fault
in the board’s meeting. No real op-
portunity was given for the trustees
to become acquainted with student
desires except for very informal en-
counters. The control of the board
over the lives of students is far too
great for them to be acting without
taking time to obtain direct knowledge
of the student interests involved.

Student Aid To Labor

“What business do students have in
a labor dispute?” is the question a lot
of people are asking.

The answer: Plenty.

The questions and answers center
about the fact that college students
throughout this state are being asked
to involve themselves in the struggle
of thousands of textile workers to
make the voice of Labor heard in
North Carolina like it’s never been
heard before.

It will probably be a long and bit-
ter fight. But it will be worth it, for
what's involved is the bringing of
some members of North Carolina’s
textile industry—kicking and scream-
ing, if necessary—across the threshold
of the 20th Century.

And it is precisely because it will
be a long and bitter fight for high
Stakes that students— and indeed,
every element of the community —
Should rally behind the textile work-
ers.

We say this fully realizing that there
are a lot of things about the American
Labor movement which deserve criti-
cism. And we realize, too, that work-
ers’ strikes can be rough-and-tumble
affairs with no quarter asked---none
given.

And we also realize that there are
many influential elements in this state
with whom the University loses favor

each time its students become involv-
ed in such matters. .

But we realize most of all that bring-
ing effective unionization to the tex-
tile workers of this state is one of
those things which transcends expedi-
ency.

It would be very nice if the textile
workers’ grievances could be satisfac-
torily settled around a bargaining ta-
ble, thereby avoiding strikes with their
accompanying picket lines and meb
psychology and power plays.

But this apparently isn’t going to be
the case. It hasn’t been the way it’s
worked in the past, and there's little
reason to suspect that the textile mills’
management is going to experience a
Cinderella change overnight and be-
gin accepting union demands at the
conference table.

So it willl probably come down to a
Strike, that nitty-gritty stage of labor
relations during which both sides flex
their muscles and the strongest man
wins.

And that is why students must join
in—to swell the muscles of the unions
and show the textile mills’ manage-
ment that not only the workers, but
the people of North Carolina, too, are
fed up with the way things are being
run now.

—Daily Tar Heel,
University of North Caroline

A Chance To Grow Up

Difficulties stemming from national
opposition to the Interfraternity Coun-
cil’s social affiliation plan may finally
convince old-line fraternity members
of the advantages of a local system
for Davidson.

This school no longer needs to play
the role of the traditional Southern
school with national emblems hanging
on the front porch of each house on
the court. Fraternities will only be
able to fulfill their complete potential
at Davidson when they are freed from
the fetters which reach down into Car-
olina from national offices. Those fet-
ters do bind Davidson fraternities and
limit them to an old-fashioned position
on campus. The many improvements
occurring in the Davidson fraternity
system have come from within the col-
lege, not from national headquarters.

A free role on campus for a frater-
nity is much more important than the
quality of the :alumni magazines re-
ceived by initiates into national broth-
erhoods in return for exorbitant initia-
tion fees. That free role cannot come
as long as the source of a fraternity’s
strength is at least formally based
away from Davidson. One of the
campaign slogans tossed around this
spring by supporters of Gus Cochran
for IFC president was that he would
“make or break the IFC.” Whether or
not this was mere campaign oratory
hy an over-heated speaker is not the
jssue. However, the IFC can become
the springboard of growth for the Da-
vidson fraternity system only if fra-
ternities here cut their national apron
strings.

The capabilities inherent in the

present system were demonstrated in
the affiliation plans produced by the
IFC. This plan had won acceptance by
both Greek and non-Greek interests.
It had won that success because its
quality transcended the narrow inter-
ests of either and capitalized on the
present necessity of all interests to

enefit student life here. At least the
affiliation plan had begun to make
such headway. Local fraternities knew
the particular situation at Davidson.
Their national offices did not.

Not all of the national fraternity
headquarters are opposed to the affil-
iation program, but the majority of
them are. Those who have cooperated
(in the sense that they have not com-
plained about the plan) are simply the
ones who realize that acquiescence is
their only alternative. This realization
is not in itself enough to justify reten-
tion of national affiliation. The only
effect that such affiliation has had on
the IFC program has been harmful
instead of beneficial.

The fraternity member who is quot-
ed in THE DAVIDSONIAN this week
is correct in saying that rush is the
biggest problem which would result
from one or two fraternities getting
rid of their national fetters. This prob-
Jem evaporates if the whole Davidson
system takes this opportunity to wean
itself from an archaic, insensitive sys-
tem. Those who say that going local
means taking a negative step back
down into a limited small college
world fail to realize that eliminating
national restrictions would in fact give
fraternities here the freedom they
need to make their biggest contribu-
tions to student life.

- ONE LAST SHOT =
Graduates Remember

| Frustration, Not Pride

ED. NOTE: The purpose
of “One Last Shot’ is to al-
low ‘students who are not
returning to Davidson next
year to express thelr opin-
ion about the college.

By GREG HAYNES

What can one feel upon grad-
uation from Davidson? Cer-
tainly not pride. We're a good
school, but not one of the best.
Perhaps nostalgia? No; who
can feel nostalgic about com-
pulsory chapel. compulsory
Bible. isolation, drinking rules
and a frantic. groping social
life? The dverwhelming feel-
ing is one of frustration —
frustration because the. ‘‘Da-
vison Experience’ has been
good, but could have been
much better.

This frustration is manifest
in many questions about Da-
vidson — questions which we
have been asking for many
years. Why do we have chap-
el? Why does the college re-
quire more hours of Bible than
either history or natural sci-
ence? (ie., is Bible study
more important than history
or science?) Why is ROTC re-
quired? Why are there drink-
ing rules?

The questions could go on
and on, and in spite of faculty
evaluations, Blue Sky Com-
mittees and Student Council
studies, we have received very
few satisfactory answers. Per-
haps the point is that there
are no satisfactory answers to

questions like these. It seems
at least significant that the
really fine colleges and uni-
versities realized this long ago
and proceeded to eliminate the
source of each question.

However. the frustration of
compulsory chapel. Bible. RO-
TC, etc.. has been here as
long as the college itself, and
additional complaining seems

nearly hopeless. But there are
other major sources of this
frustration which are not so
hopeless.

Davidson is plagued with an
atmosphere which often is dub-
bed “‘anti-intellectual."’ The re-
sults of this atmosphere are
much more apparent than its
causes. For instance, the times
that one comes away from a
class feeling genuinely stimu-
lated and intellectually ‘“‘hun-
gry" are revealingly few for
most of us. This is a major re-
sult.

Others include distressingly
small amounts of reading un-
related to class, a far-reach-
ing phobia about guest lectur-
ers, and an uncanny ability
to completely separate ‘‘in-
class-time’’ from “‘out-of-class
time.”

Causes of this atmosphere
are a little more difficult to

isolate. It is dignificant that .

every year seniors graduate
from Davidson who have nev-
er been exposed to a difficult
course or a demanding profes-
sor. Perhaps then the curric-
ulum is at fault.

Very few students talk about
what they learned in a course;
nearly every student. talks
about the grades he made.
Perhaps then the system it-
self is wrong.

Or, perhaps many profes-
sors have forgotten that part
of their job is to offer us a bit
more than a lecture full of
facts. punctuated by yawns.

Certainly these are all par-
tial causes of a situation which
can be corrected. Meanwhile,
this atmosphere is a reality
and a definite part of the frus-
tration of a ‘‘Davidson Experi-
ence."

Other sources of frustration
come readily to mind. Many
have to do with the curricu-

CONSTITUTION REVISION

30-Seat Senate?'Could Replace Council

lum. Why can't “the finest
small college in the South”
find a Russian professor? Why
are there only two political
science professors? How can
Davidson offer a major in
a “department” (sociology)
composed of a single profes-
sor? Why is there only one
English seminar per semes-
ter? Perhaps there are an-
swers to these questions, but
that doesn’t alleviate the frus-
tration we feel in asking them.

Socially, Davidson will prob-
ably always offer four years
of frustration. But even here
there are factors compounding
this frustration which could be
eliminated. Why do we need
drinking rules which cannot be
enforced with any degree of

consistency? Why must the col-.

lege continually criticize fra-
ternities without offering some
really satisfactory substitutes
for what they provide?

There are, finally, what
might be called random frus-
trations involved in the ‘*Da-
vidson Experience.”’ Why can't
the bookstore offer an abun-
dant selection of titles in some-
thing other than theology?
Why can’t the library be ex-
panded more rapidly? Why
does a eomparatively wealthy
small college have such poor
dormitory facilities?

These ‘“‘random"™  frustra-
tions are infinitely numerous,
and are perhaps a part of any
college experience. However,
at Davidson they seem to be
only an indication of a much
broader and more serious
frustration. This is the feeling
that Davidson is a good school
— better than average — but
that we are so hampered by
outmoded ideas and a reluc-
tance to change that we will
never become a really fine na-
tional college.

~ Looking
“eg! ackward

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

N. C. Sees Smidgen Of Action

Believe it or not. North Carolina is the scene of
some fairly important economic and political activity
right now, even though it may not be “where the ac-
tion is.” The current Cone Mills strike by workers af-
filiated with the Textile Workers Union of America
(TWUA) has given college students in the South an
opportunity both to become involved in the issues fac-
ing the present-day (I hesitate to say modern) South,
and to see into the past events of other parts of the
country.

. The textile industry is basic to the economy of the
South and the strike is therefore economically impor-
tant. But to me, the sociological aspects of the union
activity in the textile industry is of even greater inter-
est.

The most striking aspect of the situation is the
willingness with which whites seem to accept Negroes
as partners in their desire to bargain for a better price
for their labor. One of the major themes in the history
of the South has been the role of the Negro, and his
relation to the poor southern white. The end of an-
tagonism between poor white and poor Negro may
mark the end of the manorial-piantation relationship
which has existed between Southern management and
Southern labor.

That the issues are as much sociological as eco-
nomic is indicated in the union demands. Their con-
cern is not so much for wage increases (although that
certainly is part of it), as it is for better working con-
ditions, job security, fringe benefits, such as retire-
ment and insurance plans, and, most fundamentally,
the acceptance of unions by both management and the
general public in the South as legitimate organs of
Southern industry.

Observing and participating in union activity is
also interesting from the historical point of view. The
nature of the Cone Mills strike reminds me of what I
imagine labor activity in the North and West was like
30, 40 and 50 years ago.

The vigor but relative weakness of the TWUA cor-
responds much more with the union image of those
days than with the current image of George Meany’s
conservative craft unions, although Walter Reuther
may still retain some of the original impulse for social
justice as well as economic prosperity.

There do exist, of course, many contrasts between
even Southern union activities. in the sixties and
Northern unions of an earlier era. For example, I am
sure that the union struggles of the twenties were not —
accompanied by freedom songs taken from the civil
rights movement, even though the words may be adapt-
ed to a different struggle.

Other contrasts exist, contrasts which make one
realize that the South is living in the sixties, like it or
not. Left-wing idealists on the picket lines have been
replaced by college students. The problem of Com-
munist influence in the labor unions has been solved.
Today's workers, even in the South and even if inade-
quately, are to some extent protected by the National
Labor Relations Act.

Nonetheless the differences between labor’s situa-
tion in the South and the situation of unions in the
North seem much greater today than when Northern
unions were still young. The situation is still fairly des-

erate for many of the Southern textile workers, sub-
ected to stretch-outs, poor working conditions, and
lack of job security. Their struggle is far from over.

Does it seem hard to believe that at
some time in the near future there
will no longer be the traditional Stu-
dent Council meeting on Monday night
at 7:00 p.m. in the Blue Room of the
Union?

Isn‘t it even harder to imagine that
the traditional Student Council of 15
members may be completely dissolved
and an entirely new form of organi-
zation, with many more members,
substituted for it?

These are the questions that are be-
ing seriously discussed at the meet-
ings of the Constitution Revision Com-
mittee, which is currently doing the
most active work of any branch of
the Student Council. ‘“‘Everything is
tentative and very indefinite right
now,”’ said Franklin Anderson, the
secretary of the committee, “but we
are making progress toward several
major decisions."

Among such decisions is the major
one of whether to completely revise
the set-up of student government on
the Davidson campus or not. The
chief alternative to the present Stu-
dent Council is a senate-executive
committee concept, which is employed
effectively at several other colleges.

“The main purpose of the constitu-
tion change,”’ stated Bill Watson, a
member of the Committee and the
one who originally proposed the sen-
ate-executive form of government in
his platform for Student Body Presi-
dent. ‘‘is to let students have one cen-
tral organization that will represent
the entire student body.

“In many cases.”’ he said. ‘“‘when a
Student Council proposal is now shown
to the faculty, they seem unsure as
to whether it really represents the
general opinion of the student body.
Such a change in form would give the
students one voice through which to
speak to the faculty, and one organi-
zation through which they could more
readily govern themselves."

Pursuing the reasons for constitu-

The

Student Sphere

By JOHN WILLIAMS

tion revision even further, Anderson
said, ‘Whatever is included in the
present Student-Body Constitution has
just evolved through the years. When-
ever the Student Council found some-
thing wrong with the constitution or
its rules, they would simply throw
something into the constitution to cor-
rect it. Right now they have a very
narrow edge of authority over every-
thing.

“What we are trying to do is to pull
things together. to create a more uni-
fied government that will replace the
present fragmentary one. We are step-
ping back, looking at the present con-
stitution, and reconstructing it as we
think will best suit the needs of the
Davidson student body.

“The new constitution, in whatever
form it takes, will give the Student
Council more explicit power and will
define exactly what it can and cannot
do. It will define the relation between
campus organizations and wil! prob-
ably provide some sort of organiza-
tion to represent independents. We re-
alize that we must protect the free-
dom of the various organizations to
act as they wish. but we also want
to restrain them from doing anything
which would be detrimental to the stu-
dent body.”

At present there are three subcom-

mittees of the Constitution Commit-
tee, each working on a different phase
of the constitution: one 73 working on
the preamble, statement of purpose,
and the judicial area (courts and
codes); another is working on the
form which the highest level of stu-
dent government will take; and the
last is working on the relationship of
the highest body to the other organi-
zations, the committees which might
exist below this highest level, and the
faculty-student councils.

No matter what form the student
government takes, there will be three
governing bodies, each functioning
separately from. the other two: a Stu.
dent Council or government, an Honor
Court. and a Regulations Court. At
present the Honor Court is examining
the results of its recent questionnaire
and may. make some recommenda-
tions to the Committee.

If the committee should continue in
the direction they are now headed.
toward the senate-executive form, and
decide to establish it, the Executive
Committee would have about 7 mem-
bers and the Senate about 30. The Ex-
ecutive Committee would prepare the
agenda and hear committee reports,
while the Senate would enact the ac-
tual legislation and make major pol-

icy decisions. There would be various
other smaller committees to do a lot
of the “leg work.’

Discussing one of his favorite sub-
jects, Watson commented, ‘“‘This form
of student government would take
some of the load off the President of
the student body and distribute it
equally among the members of the
Executive Committee, although the
President would.probably be head of
both it and the Senate. It would give
the students more power and better
representation and would distinguish
between the legislative and executive
functions.

“The only disadvantages are that
such a body might be large and un-
ruly and that representatives from
various organizations might be inter-
ested only in affairs which directly af-
fect them. I seriously believe, though,
that these disadvantages are minor
and might not appear at all, if the
government is properly organized.

“My chief hope is that this form of
student government will change the
attitude of students. If it is a change
for the better and they feel that they
have an active voice in making school
policy, I hope they will be willing to
accept more responsibility and be
very careful in selecting those people
who will represent them in student
government.”*

So evidently the Committee is mak-
ing progress in these early meetings.
even if they are not exactly sure in
what direction they are headed. They
plan to have a tentative constitution
drawn up by the end of the semester,
lay it aside over the summer and pon-
der it. and then make the final revi-
sions early next fall.

Chairman Mike Bates is very pleas-
ed. “Everyone is being open-minded
and honestly considering alternatives
to their own views. With the commit-
tee working this well together, we
cannot help but come up with the right
answers eventually.”
