Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schoo! year, except
during hulidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson,
N.C.

Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK
Business Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1967

Improved Race Relations

Things have come a long way at Da-
vidson in the last five years, but
there’s still a lot of space to make up.
We refer to the area of race relations.
Four years ago, when the first Negro
student was a freshman at Davidson
(only African students were accepted
then), it was a struggle to even find a
place where Negroes could eat. And a
visit to a Charlotte movie theater in-
volved more preparations than one
would make for visiting royalty.

Now one of the final walls to segre-
gation, the lily-white fraternity sys-
tem, is crumbling. The prospect of
fraternities rushing Negroes or allow-
ing Negro students to eat at the hous-
es, once unheard of, became 4 reality
this week.

The requirement established several
years ago by the trustees that all fra-
ternities sign a non-discrimination

clause had nobody fooled. So long as
the blackball system remains and is
even partially workable, discrimina-
tion can and will exist.

The only foolproof means of erasing
the barriers to insure Negroes treat-
ment on their own merits, rather than
their skin color, is a open-minded at-
titude on the part of the student body
at large, an open-mindedness more
than one fraternity had demonstrated
this week.

Despite the improvements made, it
would take an astounding naivete to
claim a victory for racial impartiality.
A host of subtle pressures, both with-
in and without the confines of the col-
lege proper, remain to prevent Negro
students from becoming completely
integrated into college life, particular-
ly in the social sphere. But at least
we’re on the way.

Help For Political Science

Dr. Philip B. Secor’s absence next
year will be deeply felt by the entire
college; he is a superior teacher and
scholar. But just as important is the
significance of his leaving to the social
sciences at Davidson and in particular
to the Political Science Department.

At a time when the social sciences
have never been more important in
determining what course man will set
for himself, it would be almost incred-
ible, if one didn’t know for himself,
that one man could take half a school's
(a good school’s) Political Science De-
partment.

It is incumbent on any school pro-
fessing any sort of social conscience
to demonstrate its commitment by
equipping its graduates to deal with
the complex issues facing man today.
A basic grounding in the humanities
is essential, but so long as the college
retains a program of broad liberal ed-

ucation, there exists an obligation to
make adequate work in the social sci-
ences available.

A two-man department, even if
staffed with excellent instructors, of-
fers little incentive for prospective
majors. Until the department is en-
larged, the present pitifully low num-
ber of majors will continue.

e 2

With Dr. Secor gone, a tremendous
Strain is placed on the college’s liberal
community. As one of the few out-
spoken liberals on campus, Dr. Secor
has carried the ball well. We offer en-
couragement to Dr. Ernie Patterson,
to whom, we suspect, the liberal com-
munity will now look. Readers of the
Charlotte Observer's editorial page
can well attest to Dr. Patterson’s per-
severance. wit and incisive thinking
‘ob. he is well equipped to do the
job.

Freedom For Drugs, Speakers

Like it or not, drugs, stimulants and
barbituates are a fact of life in the
1960’s, and despite Davidson’s seclu-
sion from the mainstream of contem-
porary culture, drugs are an issue that
will be faced eventually.

The YMCA-College Union program,
initiated Monday by Dr. David Haw-
kins, is an encouraging step in con-
fronting the reality of the issue and
the problems drugs present to the col-
lege student. Burying one’s head in
the sand will not make the problem
disappear: rather. it will merely com-
plicate things when the issue is faced.

Like other college and university
administrations, the administration
will someday have to clarify its posi-
tion on student use of drugs ordinar-
ily considered illegal. The problem is
somewhat more complicated than the
drinking issue, a problem that is al-
ready apparently insurmountable to
the powers-that-be. Drinking in dormi-
tories would not likely be considered
a violation of state law, though no def-
inite ruling has been issued by state
authorities.

But a student found using drugs
could be under double jeopardy from
both civil and college authorities, for
an “offense” having consequences to
the individual involved. An attempt
by the administration to regulate stu-
dent conduct in an area that is purely
personal would be a grave mistake, a

step farther back into paternalism,
rather than an admission of student
individual responsibility..

4

The so-called Controversial Speak-
ers Committee, formed three years
ago when the college was making
headlines by inviting communists and
atheists to speak on the campus, has
graciously extended permission. to the
YMCA-College Union symposium to
invite the high priest of the LSD cult,
Timothy Leary, to speak on campus.

But it was utilizing a power it does
not have. The committee, in contrast
with the then-existing Speaker Ban
Law that restricted speakers of cer-
tain political convictions from speak-
ing on campuses of state-supported
universities, had a policy that “no
speakers shall be denied a hearing on
the cambpus because of his member-
ship in any organization.”

_ Perhaps the quiet that has prevailed
since those days of turmoil has dim-
med the memories of the committee
members. The committee was formed,
not to control who may speak on
campus, but rather to coordinate visits
and in certain cases, to sponsor speak-
ers who would present an opposite
point of view.

We hope that the committee will
maintain its original purpose and re-
pudiate its false claim as a censorate.

ROLE-PLAYING, WASTE MOTION

school Administrators' ‘Academic Games’ Stifle Educational Process

ED NOTE: The folfowing article, a
feature of the Collegiate Press Serv-

that mattered.
I hope I'm finished with role-playing.

seen is twice as rigid, twice as tradition-
ridden, as the administrators I've met.

states so many people get
drunk so often just because
they drink so seldom, and

Dear Editor:

Rivers of ink would be nec-
essary in order to discuss
briefly the wet-dry campus is-
sue. While several thousand
miles from Davidson. I should
like to express a few simple
ideas.

LETTERS
TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN wel- ©
comes leffers from any
reader, either in suppor? of
or differing from its poll-
cles. Letters should be type- §;
written, double-spaced, and
should not exceed 250
words.

We also will receive long-
er articles, but they will
be subject to editing un-
fess they have been clear-
ed with the editor.

tn order to be printed tn
the following issue, letters
should be received not

First, alcohol does not mean
sin. There is absolutely noth-
ing wrong morally (if you fol-
low a sort of. moral code)
about alcoholic consumption.

Second, some people enjoy
playing bridge, others. watch-
ing television. Why shouldn't
some people enjoy one or two
drinks before or after supper?
By the way, how can one en-
joy a good dinner, while drink-
ing iced tea or milk instead of

wine? later than 4 p.m. Tuesday.
Third. drinking does not All letters must be signed.

mean getting drunk! In the /quyuepepeeer enn

ig *

l $YINMK THE
BEST COoOoK/ES —

—or love.

ZANO WERE CONES
OVR HOVSEMOTHER

ON THE OTHER HAND, /
ATOS HAD THE

something they could use—or believe in

Restrictions Not Needed The Gospe
On Alcohol Consumption

therefore drinking is for them
a big deal (in any sense).

Fourth, an intelligent and
well-educated individual, as a
Davidson Gentleman is ex-
pected to be, should be able to
behave properly at all times.
Why should restrictions be nec-
essary? They seem to prove
that education offered at D.C.
is not complete; people there
seem not to learn the basic
rules of civil living.

On the contrary. my per-
sonal opinion is that all that
one learns at D.C. is fine and
good enough. The fact is. how-
ever, that these restrictions
are anachronistic ones and
should disappear from David-
son, the sooner, the better.

GIORGIO ROSSO
University of Trieste, Italy
Richardson Scholar, 1964-65

filled with injustice and suffermg and
spiritual deadness which stays''s

By JOHN BAILEY
Associate Editor

According
To John

Compulsory: Part Il: No Crusader

There comes a time when we all just have to face
up to reality. For some problems there are no simple
solutions. We can talk about them; plead our cases and
analyze the various altérnatives, but when it comes
down to giving a definitive answer. . . .

The past week has. been a bombardment of fra-
ternities and brotherhood. At Davidson when it comes
there is surely no allowance for anything else. The
fraternities are hustling a little more than they have
been and tomorrow the freshmen will make their
choices; whe will they select as their associates at Da-
vidson for the next four years?

As in all other facets of our existence we search
in- college for the “Good Life.” Will it be found in
the fraternity system? Is there anything significant to
be gained from remaihing on the outside looking in?
If you are looking for an appeal to the freshman not
to pledge, read no further. This is again a reflection,
a reflection upon three and a half years’ experience.

I have said before that knowing what I do now, 1
would never change my status as an independent even
if I were a freshman going through rush all over again.
And yet I’m forced to think. It surely is great to get
invited down to one of the houses for a meal. Did you
ever try to buy a really decent meal in Davidson? It
is hard to do. I would willingly pay a little more (like
fraternitv dues and a housing fee) to get the variety of
good food that most of the fraternities have.

The fraternity meeting is a good place to get peo-
nle on their feet among friends and give them confi-
dence in themselves. Only in the fraternity are you
able to ask someone the proper wav to act and to dress
and find out just where the best places to eat are. The
‘fraternity is where yotr will make lifelong friends and
valuable connections. If vou don’t have “it” the frater-
nity will give it to you. And for manv people these are
the areas in which the fraternity really does succeed.

But let’s be obiective for a moment. How about
the person who really does need to learn how to over-
come shyness? How about the person who has never
dated much, the one who really doesn’t know how to
have a good time? How about the person who never
has had any real connections? There are people at Da-
vidson who have never had these ovportunities and
acceptance at Davidson promises the hone of overcom-
ing, or at least working with, one’s limitations.

These are the very people as a grouv who are not
accepted by the fraternitv system. The fraternity sys-
tem which claims to contribute to the formulation of
the well-rounded man reiects the very people who need
its help the most. Sure the fraternities.get the camous
leaders and the “big men.” And they really are fine
men. But these are the very people that the less sophis-
ticated Davidson student needs to associate himself
WwW .

You can talk about it. You can curse it. You can kid
about it. You can be a “great guy” about it. You can
delay doing anything. But you can’t forget it. The
problem has been here as long as the system has ex-
isted and it still isn’t solved. The problem is the funda-
mental one of rejection, this is what creates an invis-
ible barrier between two large sectors of the student
bodv. “I know a guy he’s an indenendent, but. no kid-
ding, he really is a good guy.” Well. T know a guv, he’s
a fraternity but no kidding. he really is a good guy.

_And that is the way things are.

Pm no crusader, never have been. But someone is
going to have to prove to me that an injustice does not
exist in this area before I'll be satisfied about.it. Let
us look back to the immediate past. There have been
any number of fraternity men who have recognized the
problem and tried to work out a solution. Remember
Bob Jones, Bob Young and Rick von Unwerth? These
men were all leaders and they recognized the need for
change. Two years ago we approached such a change
and began to wrestle with the problem.

I cannot say that the results have been nil. But
the results have been inconclusive. The independent
still retains an inferior position in the Davidson sys-
tem. At the time of every big weekend he is dependent
upon the good will of the fraternity system to enjoy
himself to the fullest. What does it take to point up
this problem so Trustees, administration, alumni, fac-
ulty, and students alike will solve it?

As I said, I'm not a crusader. But what would the
college’s answer be if I went to the Bursar’s Office
and paid my $23 housing fee and asked which house I
was assigned to?. Think about it. Haven’t I the right
to the same facilities as everyone else on campus?

I may make a crusader... .

one student—John Kaplan—got up and

‘and = walked out! Joy! Like the Baal-Shem

ice, was written by John Clayton, as-
sistant professor of humanities at Bos-
ton University.

I remember back when I was a grad-
uate student teaching Freshman Comp.
It was a big state university and I was
one of (I think) 80 comp. teachers. They
paid me $1,800 a year. and I played the
Academic Game.

I don‘t mean I didn't care; I cared.
I did my best to train students to write
acceptable papers for college courses.
What a goal!

And I pretended to be shocked when
out of a batch of essays we found 13 per
cent duplicates and eight per cent prob-
able plagiarisms, Not to speak of the
papers taken from fraternity files.

I say pretended because somewhere I
knew it was all role playing and that the
students simply recognized this. Maybe
it was the smarter ones who created,
who saw the game for what it was. But
no—probably it was the type who were
smart as pickpockets are smart. Other-
wise dead.

Role-playing. Waste motion, all of it.
except a few private talks that mat-
tered and a few class hours when with-
in the squeeze of the syllabus, I could

generate excitement about something

I'm not giving any more students prac-
tice in writing academic essays which
are themselves as unreal as the fresh-
man essays. Unreal because the upper-
class academic essays are only more
practice for graduate school essays which
are again practice for publishing in PM-
LA or American Journal of Sociology.
And if you look at these journals, you'll
be up against ultimate unreality.
Instead of this I’m asking students to
tell me something that matters to them,
something that connects their lives with
“The Oresteia’ or “The Bacchae.” and
if nothing matters to talk about that. I'm
asking them to use their own living lan-
guage and forget Academic Linear A.
T won't play the role of being shocked
at. a comma fault or an inversion of sub-

ordination. I'm asking my students to |

commit themselves to what they're say
ing.

But much more in university life is
unreal. Because who controls-the system
but people who have been selected for
unreality? It's a filtering process which
usually, gets rid of people who are com-
mitted to living or gets rid of their com-
mitment. I used to think that it was fac-
ulty and students against administration.
I was naive. Much of the faculty I've

The faculty is hung up in its disciplines.
responsive not to students but to national
disciplinary societies, like the American
Chemical Society, which dictates that
chem majors take 55 hours in math and
science.

And are students much less rigid? Give
them free choice on essay topics and
you'll get half of them writing the same
plodding academic essays they've found
to be safe. Let a discussion get going hot
and half of them are uneasy that they're
not taking notes for the exam. They suck
in “knowledge” because they're told, they
discuss masterpieces because they're
masterpieces. Ours is not to say it's
bunk. Ours is but to pass or flunk.

So let's get rid of the Academic Game.
Let's begin with exams. I spent 80 hours
—two work weeks—on grading exams last
year. Suppose I had 80 extra hours for
talking to students? Suppose I didn't
have to feel apologetic for not preparing
students for exam questions? Suppose I
didn’t have to face resentment, self-dra-
matics, rebellion—all the hangups (as if
there weren't enough interpersonal prob-
Jems in just learning and teaching!)?

Maybe we'd feel we were meeting be-
cause it intrinsically mattered. Maybe
teachers would have to give students

What are exams for anyway? To keep
up standards? You mean I'm spending
two weeks a year to keep up a univer-
sity's standards? Anyway, I think I'm
achieving quite opposite results. Exams
create a course content which can be
examined easily—often trivializing the
work. Do exams ‘‘make students learn?”
I've heard that. What an incredible idea!
I don’t want to make anyone learn any-
thing in college—except maybe a white
rat. Exams create students who stop
caring; they set up the rules of the
Academic Game.

What exams are really for. I suppose,
is selection: who gets into graduate
school, who gets into the corporation. Do
I have to serve as a testing service for
Harvard and Westinghouse? Why not let
the corporations share the cost of a spe-
cial test after four years in residence?
Why not let graduate schools judge on
the basis of the GRE and written work
and personal interviews?

Or maybe there's another, deeper rea-
son for exams: maybe the faculty and
administration is afraid that what goes
on here is just a game—that without the
whip of examinations, the classrooms

' would be empty.

Look at the world of the Fathers—

ignores the suffering. There ale@ddljble:

locks on the doors in Brookline; there are
locks on the sympathetic imagination:
on my sympathetic imagination, too. Men
respond to horror as to sexuality: they
turn it off—and they go through the mo-
tions of living.

And doesn't this creep into
versity under the guise of schola
jectivity? What about calling it non-com-
mitment and withdrawal? I have a fac-
ulty friend who started a near-riot by
attacking @ group of self-styled patriots
who were threatening some peace pick-
eters. He tells me girls who had sat
hands-folded all semester were quickened
into life: they cared; they brought in evi-
dence that he was wrong. They blasted
him and he blasted back.

Out of this living confrontation came
more than an analysis of subcultural
characteristics — though that too; what
came was a commitment of living
thought.

I remember a couple of years ago.
teaching Thoreau's “Walden.” I quoted
the passage criticizing university educa-
tion, laughing at the irony that even this
idea students had to write in their note
books. I said, if you believe what Thor-
eau says, what are you doing here? So

e Uni-

Tov, he was in the truth, not just in the
possession of truth.

Freshmen need to study alienation in
America or to study problems of identity
ingtheir own cities. If sociological tools
are needed, if economic concepts are
needed, introduce the-n. But don’t make
a“Mudent go through years of digested,

lytical, disciplinary structure before
he finds out what really matters. We
need courses which involve the students’
life at home, in the dormitory, at work.
We live in the laboratory.

The world is one. I'm not making a
false dichotomy between the real world
and the University. Experience is one.
It’s the University which makes the di-
chotomy.

There is only one ‘revolution on the
campus: the students’. It’s a three stage
Process, and so far there hasn't been
much progress beyond the first two: Open
revolt, and a return to the university
with the values learned in the course of
revolt.

Students have established their own
programs, seminars and projects. I'm
looking for the third stage, however, the
Point when the faculty and administra-
tion join in to make education live. No
more Academic Games.

