Che Davidsanian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT 6ODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schvol year, except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

N.C.

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON
Buéiness Manager

FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1867

On Breaking Tradition

In holding its annual banquet Mon-
day night, the College Union will be
retaining at least one of the traditions
of the college. Another of the David-
son traditions will go by the board,
however. This year when complimen-
tary speeches about the good work
that the Union has done are made,
they will be true.

Under the extremely capable lead-
ership of Peter Parrott during the first
part of the school year, the Union pro-
gram was expanded and given the sort
of life that it should have if it is to
help the great social gaps which exist
in the Davidson College experience.

The Union has to be more than just
some sort of stop-gap measure to bene-
fit Independents. The Union should
not exist just to give Independents
something to do. There should not be
a divided social life on campus in
which the fraternities take care of
70 per cent of the student body and
the Union takes care of the rest.

The Union program this year has
reflected the realization of this basic
truth, and to a certain extent the
whole student body has shared this
insight. The events which the Union
has sponsored this year have attracted
the whole college community includ-
ing faculty and the most benighted
Greek supporters of the “Indepen-
dents - are - weak - men” philosophy.

Events such as the hungry d, Trawf,
and the Union Coffee House have been
very well done and, consequently,
very well received by all observers.

The encouragement given by Di-
rector C. Shaw Smith and Assistant
Director Tom L. Covington has caused
more students from all sides of the
campus to contribute their ideas and
to work to implement those ideas in
the most effective way. The hard-
working core of the Union Board has
been marked by an infectuous enthus-
iasm which has given a real feeling of
life to the Union program.

A very healthy change can be seen
in the fact that those who contribute to
the Union’s activities no longer seem
to feel that they are doing the poor,
abused weak little Independent some
tremendous favor by helping him out.
This idea reflected a sadly mistaken
opinion of the Independent at David-
son. Now those who are contributing
their talents to the Union program
seem to be doing it for the very
healthy reason that they just enjoy it.

In this way, campus social life is
coming to be centered more around
the Union as it should be. With the
program which seems to be develop-
ing on campus, disciplinary bodies

may have to think again before re-

garding “campusing” as a punitive
measure.

More Than Exploration

Davidson may be able to make a
significant contribution to the field of
social psychology next year if it takes
advantage of the unique opportunity
with which it will be presented.

The qualities of leadership are
among ‘the least defined character
traits. Thus far, they have eluded the
attempts of those interested in trying
to find out what creates a leader. Ap-
parently, height is about the only
characteristic that has even been re-
lated to leadership. Even this trait
has to be viewed in post facto terms
because the absence of height can
motivate one to accomplishment in
compensation for shortness just as
well as height itself can give a leader
the imposing figure that is helpful for
managing people.

The literature about the Richardson
Fellows program takes some care to
say that the program is designed not
to create a leadership elite on campus
but instead to see if the qualities of
leadership can be spotted in the early
college years. Because so many lead-
ers are “late bloomers,” our initial
impression is that those leadership
qualities are not evident in early life.
However, since no one can really say

what the qualities of leadership are at
present, the Richardson program could
be very useful in answering the ques:
tion.

Largely because of the fact that the
money for the Fellows did not become
available until rather late in the school
year, the nature of this year’s program
has been forced to be less than syste-
matic. As one adviser to the program
pointed out, the program this year
has been more exploratory than ex-
perimental. If the program is to ac-
complish one of its stated goais, which
is to acquire information about the
qualities of leadership and the detec-
tion of them, it should be operated on
a scientifically sound basis.

Next fall the college will be adding
a new member to its psychology de-
partment. The particular field of ex-
pertise of the new instructor is social
psychology, the discipline which stud-
ies leadership qualities. Advantage
should be taken of this person’s know-
ledge and advice to restructure the
Richardson Fellows program so that
it could have scientific merit. If this
were done, Davidson might be able
to make a significant contribution to
this sadly lacking field of knowledge.

POEM _ by W.H. Jackson ji!

Napalm
Tearing
Sharing
It

Atlantis

Cursing
But we
Dark
Hail
All

Familiar was each face, and dear as life,

That went into the war

But thither, whence a warrior went of old,

Doth nought return-
Only a spear and a sword,
And ashes in an urn.

—Aeschylus

burns peace into the world

away the flesh of village men

it with the breeze.
keeps on eating to bone
where decisions are made

and changes the tone of things.

once burned _in time
until they sunk it

madly at the stars:

rain fire upon the trees
eyes glisten in the burn.
Atlantis that saw in time
men buried in one urn.

Radical Effects Of Information Media

Culminate In Method Of Transmission

ED. NOTE: This Is a re-
view of “The Medium Is The
Massage,” by Marshall Mc-
Luhan. The book has sparked
widespread comment for its
description of the communi.
cations media.

By SAM DARBY
Staff Writer

On the first page is a picture
of a raw egg on a plate with
C PC Process written on the
yoke as a vivid example of the
hard hitting effects that can
be realized through images as

opposed to linear script.

McLuhan says that “The
medium, or process of our
time — electric technology —
is reshaping and restructuring
patterns of social interde-
pendence and every aspect of
our personal life.”

In other words television —
the main medium of electric
technology — is obtaining such
a hold on our. lives that there
are profound effects to be seen
in the way we communicate
with each other: and not only
with the way we communicate
but with what we communi-
cate.

Somehow there is a hint of
warning in his message, but
not a warning against some-
thing that is necessarily bad.
but a warning to those who
are unaware of what is going
on.

He is saying. ‘‘This jis the
way it is, like it or not. and the
best thing to do will be to
realize that things are chanz
ing and try to understand fhe
effects and the ways to take
advantage of them.’

One thing that is pointed out
in the book is the matter of
sensory perception and the
fact that by living in this
linearly organized society most
people. when they have gone
through our pen - and - ink
school system with its ordered
facts and logical systems, lose
their abilities for spontaneous.
auditory and visual percep-

tions.

McLuhan points to the tele-
vision-orientated child of to-
day. who is accustomed to a
continuous flow of information
from our modern media and’
who is thus bored with the
nineteenth century concept of
school because of its enforced
structure.

“Growing up — that is our
new work and it it total. Mere
instruction will not suffice.”
(“It isn’t that I don't like cur-
rent events. There have just
been so many of them lately.’*)

Carl Orff, the noted Ger-
man composer, has refused to
take as pupils any but pre-

school children — children
whose “spontaneous sense per-
ceptions have not yet been
channeled by formal. literary
visual prejudices.”’

So the book is a social eval-
uation which should scare no
one except those who are
afraid of the currents of the
society in which they live.

It is simply reporting the
facts and it's up to the reader
to accept the challenge. Mc-
Luhan said this by quoting
Montaigne at the top of a pic-
ture of a lady dressed in
cellophane and playing a cello:
“The thing is, we must live
with the living.’

¥,

— Looking

4 1
aa, Packward

By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor

Two Solutions To Vietnam

A lot of people have spent a lot of time trying to
figure out just why there are hundreds of thousands
of American troops in dinky little Vietnam. Some of
them figure we ought to get out in order to save our
political power and influence in the world. Others
figure we ought to stay in, so that we might preserve
our political power and influence.

Somebody else figures we ought to get out be-
cause, even though it would be a political sacrifice,
the moral cost of staying is too great. There are pro-
bably even some little old ladies in tennis shoes, who
follow the administration line and believe we have some
sort of great moral commitment to the Vietnamese to
make war in their country.

But, behold! Two solutions:

One suggestion is that of Marvin Sparrow. He
advocates the Roach Approach. Apparently, of all the
living organisms in the world today, the cockroach has
the greatest resistance to radioactivity. Therefore, if
one asks, who is to most benefit from a full-scale world
war, one is answered, the cockroach.

The cockroach, having the most resistance to
radioactivity, is also most likely to survive a full-scale
war: therefore, the cockroaches of the world are
viciously and surreptitiously egging on mankind to
begin such a war. Escalation in Vietnam is part of this
campaign being conducted by our six-legged friends.

Leslie Brown, on the other hand, has come up
with the Theory of the Grandfather Cause. According
to his way of thinking, humans have an innate psycho-
logical need for war stories. Resource materials for
these stories lasts for about two generations, and then
it must be replenished: thus, the grandfathers of the
world can tell stories which are believable only to their
sons. By the time their sons start producing children,
credibility has ceased. The sons of the men who fought
in World War I are now producing sons, and the need
for war stories cannot be fulfilled by tales of filthy
Gerries and lousy Japs. Therefore, we must now par-
ticipate in another war, so that this basic psychologi-
cal need can be fulfilled.

Volunteer Army Should Replace
Draft's Involuntary Servitude’

ED. NOTE: This column was writ-
ten by United States Senator Mark
Hatfield, a Republican from Oregon.
Hatfield is noted for his opposition to the
Vietnam war and the draft.

The time has come to end the military
draft.

Wher all the facts are In. and all the
current and projected needs for military
manpower have been taken into account,
it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that
America does not need the draft. America
can afford not to have the draft, and
America is overdue in bringing to an end
this drastic invasion of the lives and
liberties of her young men.

’ Congress is now beginning to debate
P-esident Johnson's legislation to extend
the dvaft another four years. In years
past Congressional examination of this
iscue was perfunctory. This year things

. are d'fferent.

Thanks no doubt to the heightened
awareness of America’s. young people,
whose lives the draft so seriously affects,
many in Congress are now for the first
time rethinking the premises upon which
the draft is supposedly based. An in.
creasing number of them are finding it
sadly out of step with both our nation’s
traditions and with its military manpower
needs.

We must never allow ourselves to for-
get that however pressing the circum-
stances, the draft Is involuntary servi-
tude. It is legitimate and constitutional
when Congress, exercising its power to
raise and support armies, has no reason-
able alternative. But conscription must
always be the last desperate resort for
meeting military manpower needs, not
fhe cheap and easy expedient.

The only real argument for having an
involuntary draft is that the nation could
not reasonably afford to raise and retain
the needed military manpower without it.
T maintain that the nation can afford to
eliminate the draft. In doing so we will
restore lost liberties. We can end once
and for all the inherent inequities of a
compulsory system. We can upgrade our
armed forces and increase our national
security, And we can do it at a price
this rich and powerful nation can easily
afford.

There is no numerical shortage of man-
power for filling military ranks. With
more realistic service qualifications and
sharply increased wages and fringe bene-
fits, and with an enhanced status for
military careers, we can attract the
500,000 men we need each year, even at
Vietnam buildup level.

All we have to do is to make up our

minds that we are golng to stop ex-
changing precious liberties for false
economy—false because, when the total
economic costs of the draft system are
taken into account, including civitian
wages foregone by draftees, we may
well be saving nothing at all.

How do we get from the present draft
to the volunteer army?

First, we must unequivocally reaffirm
our commitment to the goal of voluntary
armed forces. The draft should be ex-
tended for one or at the most two years.
During that time the Defense Departmerit
should embark on a program designed to
make the draft increasingly unnecessary.
A special joint committee of Congress—
independent of the Defense Department
and the Selective Service System—should
be set up to make recommendations for
a phasing out of the draft, and to maintain
a continual review of the Defense De-
partment’s progress toward that goal.
And military pay and fringe benefits
should be raised substantially, starting
now.

It is time we made the firm decision
to put an end to inequity, put an end to
uncertainty, put an end to inefficiency,
and regain for our young ‘people the
liberties the draft has taken from them.

wane ONE LAST SHOT

Davidson Draws Strength From Its Existence As A Social Entity

ED. NOTE: This column is the last in a series
written by Davidson students and faculty to give
them a chance to express their opinions about the
college. Dr. Philip B. Secor is assistant professor of
political science.

By PHILIP B. SECOR

1 wonder about this expression ‘‘one last shot” as
a Suitable rubric under which to arrange some remarks
about Davidson. That word “shot” suggests that I may
be expected to assume a posture of hostility. Is it sup-
posed that the soon-to-be departed one possesses a
special immunity from responsibility which frees him
to blast away at the weaker aspects of his community?

Or is it assumed that one possesses a special
dom simply because he is moving on? If these notions
underlie the hopes of any who are bothering to read
this column, they will be disappointed; for I mean only
to praise and not to criticize.

This may be because my life at Davidson has been
mostly within the faculty segment of this community
which may be quite different from the student seg-
ment. But I think it is because I perceive that criticisms
of the college have been so frequent of late that these
are quite familiar to all of us. What may be more im-
portant for me to do is to describe what it seems to me
is praiseworthy about Davidson College.

The best quality in Davidson is thet there is
such a thing as Davidson College. We have here not a
random selection of human beings, each defining
the college in terms of his own special talents and
will; rather, there is here a sufficient commonness
of purpose which binds us to one another that one
can actually speak of the college as a social entity—
a community which one may join and serve.

. This is quite rare today. Anyone who weakens
this community by reckless attacks upon it does so not
only at his own peril but at the peril of all whose lives
are defined and nurtured by this community.

To be sure, the obligation to criticize is precise!
one of those shared values which defines a good col-
lege. Most of us who live here have taken this respon-

sibility seriously. The right to criticize is so strongly
a pert of what defines Davidson that | could fill the
entire column with examples of how carefully this
value is guarded by those who administer the affairs
of the college. .

Not only are the rights of students and faculty to
criticize protected, but as President Martin said elo-
quently in his public stand against the North Carolina
Speaker Ban Law, Davidson will exercise its influence
to protect the rights to free expression of those in other
colleges and universities. The entire state-wide cam-

aign by non-public colleges against the Speaker Ban
w was in large measure led by Davidson faculty
members. to

I know few college campuses where freedom of
expression is more widely exercized than it is here by
Davidson people in the classroom, in student groups,
in faculty meetings, from assembly platforms, in local
newspapers, in racial integration activities, in labor
unionization projects, and so on.

Of course Davidson has.its problems. It would not
be a living community if it did not. But most of these
problems are those which result from the very fact
that this is an open and inquiring society. If we lack
problems, we would not be living in the present.

It is the very act of being engaged in the contro-
versy which attends a search for soluitons which helps
to prove the excellence of our lives at Davidson. Is
there an easy enswer to the problem of U. S. military
involvement in Vietnam or elsewhere? Certainly not.

Then. how can there be an easy answer to the prob-
lem of R.O.T.C. on the Davidson campus? Is there an
obvious answer to the problems associated with the
growing pains of urbanization here in the South? If
not, then how can we expect a simple answer to the
problems of expanding the still largely rural Davidson
community so as to incorporate urban culture into the
social activities of students?

Is there an easy answer to the problem of allocat-
ing scarce resources in the face of seemingly limitless
demands? If not, how can we expect that the Davidson

curriculum will offer courses in all fields of knowledge
and represent all points of view?

Have we yet discovered how adequately to inte-
grate the white and Negro communities into one com-
munity? If not, how can we expect the college over-
night to accomplish the integration of white and Negro
people in Davidson?

My point is that most who live in this college
community are engaged in a search for solutions to
extremely difficult problems. And this very search
which often produces impatience, friction and hard
feelings demonstrates the existence of a viable aca-
demic community.

But the search for answers is not all that binds
Davidsonians into an academic community. Important
though the search for solutions is as a central value
joining discreet persons into a corporate college life, it

just as important that this college continues to ex-
press its commitment to excellence.

This word, excellence, is vague, I know. I mean
it to suggest qualities both of mind and of spirit in the
persons who live and work here. It is of little value to

ave persons of inferior intellectual ability engaged in
the search for answers to extremely difficult questions.

I needn’t labor the case for the existence of excel-
lence of mind in the Davidson community. A few ex-
amples will illustrate. The humanities course which 1
came here to work in requires a broad knowledge in
many areas on the part of the teaching faculty. It re-
quires also an interest in interdisciplinary teaching
and learning.

Many colleges succumb to the temptation to do
sloppy work in creating courses similar to humanities
which look good in the catalog but which are, in fact,
mere “scissors and paste” rearrangements of existing
introductory courses. At Davidson, however, Dean
Johnston sought professors who are dedicated to in-
terdisciplinary work and encouraged them financial-
ly end otherwise to train themselves in areas where

were weak.
my own case this meant a summer at college

expense studying theology at Union Seminary in New
York. Furthermore, the college has provided us with
continuing resources so as to attempt to assure a well-
conceived and well-educated program.

This interest in excellence of mind on the part of
the Davidson administration 1s probably not sufficient-
ly appreciated by students here. Summer research
grants for teaching improvement, as well as for pub-
lication projects, are almost always available for pro-
fessors. When I, for instance, expressed an interest in
Preparing myself for more adequate teaching in Soviet
politics, the college financed a reading program and a
trip to the Soviet Union which helped me immeasur-
ably to improve the quality of my aching

Finally, it is excellence of spirit or character in
the persons at Davidson which defines the life of this
community. By excellence here, 1 mean mutual respect.
People who tolerate one another’s opinions are not
necessarily living in community. Toleration can sug-
gest a coldly, radically antagonistic situation—a non-
community.

The spirit which so often has seemed to me
present at Davidson goes beyond mere toleration for
another's views and affirms instead a fundamental
respect for the persons who express these views.

__ This capacity to respect the personhood of others
within the community is the sine qua non for any mere
collection of persons who aspire to become a com-
munity of searchers for the truth. It is this quality
which is most critically absent, I suspect, on too many
college and university campuses in the United States
where freedom of inquiry has become an end in itself.

What Davidson has given to me, and I hope to
many who have lived here, is an experience of life
within a community of free inquiry. To a noteable de-
gree Davidson provides individual freedom within the
context of genuine community.

In so doing, Davidson is @ living proof, albelt
only imperfectly so, that this most difficult but
necessery accommodation of freedom and commun-
ity is in some measure attainable.
