Che Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year, except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

N.C
Louis LESESNE
Editor-in-Chief
PAGE TWO

CHRIS HAWK
Businéss Manager

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1857

Athletics Again

Two current developments have
again pointed up the dissatisfaction
existing within the college community
with the existing situation in the ath-
letic picture at Davidson. Most obvious,
of course, is the letter appearing else-
where on this page signed by 20 up-
perclass students who want an end to
the practice of subsidizing athletics
through scholarships.

A stock retort to criticisms of pro-
fessional athletics on campus is that
“the student body is in favor of it.”
Scattered protesters are passed off as
disgruntled radicals who don’t deserve
to be heard. Never before have so
many spoken at once.

Campus readers will recognize the
signers as more than the typical Da-
vidson student, who is more involved
with being admitted to graduate school
or with weekend dating than with far-
reaching issues of policy; all are ma-
ture and responsible upperclassmen
who have contributed more than their
share to bettering campus life in vir-
tually every field, including athletics.

Organizers of the letter were pur-
posefully selective in their choice of
signers; no effort was made to solicit
names from the student body as a
whole. The contributions the signers
have made to the college and the re-
spect they command in the student
body qualify them to be listened to.
In fact, it would be difficult for the

A Letter Home

One of the most unfortunate aspects
of war is the complete distortion it
makes in men's outlooks. Witness the
letter reprinted this week in The Char-
lotte Observer, written by an Ameri-
can soldier killed in Vietnam.

“I can hold my head high to all peo-
ple oppressed and guide them to know
the same freedom we know,” the sol-
dier wrote. “If we can stand and fight
for freedom, then I think we have
done the job God set down for us.
It's up to every American to fight for
the freedom we hold so dear. If we
don’t the smells of free air could be-
come dark and damp as in a prison
ce ad

Patriotism is not the question here;
or if it is, it’s a perverted variety,
grown into a messianic chauvinism

trustees to ignore: such a concerted
rotest on the part of student body
eaders. ;
The second development bearing in-
directly on the athletic question is the
section of the proposed faculty consti-
tution that puts the entire athletic pro-
gram under the direct supervision of
the faculty. Such a situation has previ-
ously existed in name only, despite
the fact that the Southern Association
of Schools and Colleges requires such
a condition as a criterion for accredita-
tion. No one has ever seriously argued
that the faculty, through its commit-
tee on athletics, does in fact maintain
final control over athletic policies.
The overwhelming faculty opposi-
tion to’ continued subsidization of pro-
fessional athletics is no secret; last
spring more than 80 per cent of the
faculty asked the trustees to adopt all
the recommendations dealing with ath-
letics of last year’s Visiting Commit-
tee from the Southern Association,
calling for, among other things, a com-
pletely non-subsidized athletic pro-

gram.

If the trustees decline to go along
with the faculty’s requests, they will
be overtly manifesting what has ex-
isted all along — the lack of faculty
control over athletics. Should the
Southern Association desire to press
the issue, a likely outcome may well
be a loss of accreditation for the
school.

seeking to impose the American Way
of Life on people of all the world,
whether or not they want it. If the
United States is determined to “guide
them (all oppressed people) to the
same freedom we know,” the soldier is
right, as he says later in his letter, his
little brothers and his older sister's
children will have to fight, too.

It is regrettable that the Army finds
it necessary to indoctrinate its forces
with such simple but false conceptions
of what the U.S. is doing in Vietnam.
Letters such as the one referred to
serve to reemphasize the tragic as-
pects of U.S. involvement in Southeast
Asia; neither the soldier’s courage nor
the sincerity of his motives can be de-
nied. For him to have died for a polit-
ically contrived debacle is sickening.

In Defense Of Journalism

A minor storm has erupted over
THE DAVIDSONIAN’s refusal to print
this week the complete platforms of
candidates for Social Council chairman
and College Union president. A fear
of being misunderstood prompts us to
offer a defense of an action which
should need no defense.

No one would argue the responsi-
bility of the campus newspaper to vig-
orously strive to keep the significant
events of the college community be-
fore its readers. But at the same time,
the campus paper must be more than
a bulletin board; the sheer volume of
material, ali of it worthy to some ex-
tent of receiving exposure to the com-
munity, precludes THE DAVIDSON.
LAN’s indiscriminately publishing ail
items of local interest.

One of the responsibilities of a jour-
nalist is to use his discretion in decid-
ing what news te publish and how to
present it. The idea of the impartial
newspaper is a myth that should be
banished forever. It has been said that
there is nothing wrong with a biased
editor; what should be feared is his
refusing to make his biases clear,
thereby keeping his readers in the
dark as to what choices have been
made in the writing of the news.

Book Muddle

Problems of location and size of one
sort or another have plagued Davidson
Since its inception —there’s nothing
new about that. But one problem has
at least recently become more notice-
able, if not more acute. The bookstore
simply does not have the stock neces-
sarv for Davidson’s situation.

One might think it less desirable for
a school of Davidson's size and loca-
tion to have a wide selection of paper-
backs than a large university book
market. Quite the contrary: most uni-

versities. with student bodies number-.

ing in the thousands, and located in
metropolitan centers, furnish a de-
mand adequate to assure a constant
suvply of choice books. .

Davidson, on the other hand, obvi-

ously is handicapped by its small stu-.

dent body. Consequently, a well stock-
ed bookstore could scarcely make a

rofit here. ;
P And there’s the rub. For the admin-

The backbone of any newspaper is
the news story, in which the writer
makes definite choices as to what as-
pects of a particular situation are sig-
nificant and which are not and there-
fore not deserving mention. Very rare-
ly has THE DAVIDSONIAN made use
of the device of reprinting documents
in tote, save in unusually important
events, e.g., the fraternity evaluations
of March 1965.

No attempt is made to reproduce
chapel speeches verbatim; rather, the
reporter is given the task of discern-
ing the essential aspects of the speech,
to be reported in the newspaper.

The platforms of the candidates for
student body offices, including the
student body president, Honor Court
and class offices have never been re-
printed: And, as is fairly obvious, nei-
ther are those of candidates for the
Social Council and College Union
posts.

Instead, we have given our reported
the task of singling out the significant
aspects to be reported, much as we did
this week with the proposed faculty
constitution, a story of much more ul-
timate significance. In doing so, we
have discharged our duty as an organ
for not merely reporting the news, but
also for interpreting it.

istration has decreed that P. Nicholls’
literary center of capitalism be com-
pletely self-supporting. The bookstore
is free to make all the money it wants
and to buy as many new books as it
can afford. But there is no real sub-
sidization forthcoming.

A promising flicker has appeared.
Several thousand dollars have been al-
located to a group of students to use
for addding to the stock of the book-
Store. But there is a real and pressing
need for such a grant to be made per-
manent, so that the bookstore can
count on a regularly increasing stock.

The problem lies in one’s conception
of the role of a bookstore in the life of
the college. As is the case in athletics,
it appears that the administration is
more interested in the financial than
the educational benefit to be derived.
Students here simply need a wider
range of. books than are currently
available.

STEPUNIN A ‘PURVEYOR OF DARKNESS’

Russian’s Visit Labeled ‘Blatant Abuse’

(ED. NOTE: The follow-
ing open letter to the David-
son student body is reprinted
from the Florence (5S. C.)
Times as a service to the
student body, since few stu-
dents are readers of the

Savaeus 1 VY 1 et ©

Times).

Dear American Students at a
Presbyterian Church - spon-,
sored College:

1 read with interest that you
have been host to a Soviet of-
ficial from the Russian Em-

gi

ee
—

‘

bassy. This saddens me. Oh,
please, I know all the dusty
cliches about freedom of
speech. You are young but not
too young to learn now the dif-
ference between freedom and
abuse.

Geos

hu, 3
R wa
z
Be
Wy
ile?

“You can't tell whether they come for BA, LSD or CIA.”
LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Financial Commitment
For Athletics Too Great

Dear Editor:

The sports page of THE DA-
VIDSONIAN last week con-
tained an interview with Dr.
Tom Scott. Director of Ath-
letics, regarding an increase
in the number of athletic schol-
arships. In the remarks at-
tributed to him, Dr. Scott is
quoted as saying that “‘athlet-
is scholarship funds are a con-
stant percentage of the Living
Endowment.”

That remark is, at best, half
true — and we feel that the
warped impression left by its
incompleteness must be cor-
rected. The facts are these: On

the basis of a crippling agree-.
ment made with the Wildcat
Club in 1956. each year 4 per
cent of the Living Endowment
of the second preceding fiscal
year is set aside for athletic
scholarships.

This amount is divided by
$1195, cost of a full scholar-
ship in 1956, to determine the
number of scholarships to be
available. That number is then
multiplied by the cost of a
current full scholarship to de-
termine the amount of money
available.

Figures for this year: 61.5
scholarships, at an average

‘Skin Of Our Teeth’

A Review
By TED WINTER

Is ‘Something Special’

tin and Gini McAllister.

Thornton Wilder, as the author

Thornton Wilder and his Ma- of an experimental comedy on
gic Flying Play. The Skin of Gur the miseries of man, seems to
Teeth is a rather special play. have centered the play in two
the All-American History of the characters. Ellen Winkler por-
World, the Rise and Fall and All trayed strongly the serious for-
the Ups and Downs of the Hu- tune-teller of man, the artist.

man Race.

**I tell the future. Nothing easier.

It is also a play that must be Everybody's future is in their
difficult to produce, but in turn face. Nothing easier. But who
its toying with all the leveis of can tell your past, —eh? No-
illusion and reality in the theatre body.”

can overcome any flaws or diffi-

And bearded Richardson Scho-

culties in a production and put lar Mike Gwilym is the comic
half of them to good use. The director, the self-conscious mo-
unforgettable reality is that we dern artist. “I don’t suppose
are humans watching humans it means anything. It's just a
portraying a human's idea of kind of poetic effect.”

Whatever That Means, and it is

If there was not as much

all enhanced by a small theatre laughter as there should have
with an All-Davidson or All- Any- been during the first two acts.

where cast.

the Davidson audience is per-

That makes every production haps to blame. There were
of it something special, and Ru- plenty of long hard smiles, but
pert Barber's The Skin Of Our there was too much empty space
Teeth, Davidson 1967 this week in the theatre for an audience's

was a joy to its audience and uninhibited laughter.

It was

one is certain, to all who worked Wilder himself who wrote:

with him on it.

“A play presupposes a crowd.

The center of the play is The reasons for this go deeper
Everyman, Adam, Noah, a New than (1) the economic necessity
Jersey commuter, the All-Hu- for the support of the play and
man family man Danny Thomas, (2) the fact that the tempera-
George Antrobus. He was well ment of actors is proverbially

played by John Bailey.

The play and the community

dependent on group attention.

“It rests on the fact that (1)

are fortunate to have Connie the pretense, the fiction, on the
Welsh and Jane Crawley. who stage would fall to pieces and
acted the eternal Wife and absurdity without the support ac-
Lover, good old Maggie and Miss corded to it by a crowd, and (2)
Sabina ‘‘Wow" Fairwether Mrs. the excitement induced by pre-
Welsh has often given us true tending a fragment of life is such
drama here, and Mrs. Crawley that it partakes of ritual and
has done wonderfully two major festival, and requires a crowd.”

roles this year. And raves for

Mrs. Crawley’s costuming!

That part of the Davidson au-

dience which saw The Skin of

Man’‘s two types of problem Our Teeth knows now if it
children, the Bad Seed and the didn’t already. And perhaps soon
Gifted Child (‘We've always had the whole community will learn
two children, though it hasn't al- how rewarding it can be to make
ways been the same two’) were a little time three times a year
convincingly done by Neal Mar- for its theatre.

cost of $1,910, come to a total
of $117,465—not 34, but 54 per

cent of the Living Endowment
($216,000).
Moreover, assuming that

both the Living Endowment
and tuition costs will further
increase, so will this percent-
age. The projected figure for
1975-76 is 81 per cent. (Self-
Study Report, pp. 134-135).
Technically, only the 34 per
cent actually comes from the
Living Endowment in any
year: the discrepancies are
made up from tuition alloca-
tions, according to the Self-
Study.

Our objections go far beyond
the insufficiency of financial
explanations, though, like the
Faculty, we are very inter-
ested in learning exactly how
much of the College’s funds
are being committed to our in-
tercollegiate athletic program.

But the commitment is not
just one of funds: it impedes
physical education and intra-
mural programs; it involves a
double standard in the award-
ing of scholarships; its contri-
-bution to the total education-
al purpose of the College is
minimal—indeed, the burdens
on those who do participate
are so great as to impede their
own education.

Further, there are many who
are convinced that Davidson's
reputation as an educational
institution has suffered be-
cause of its unbalanced pub-
licity. .

Finally, it is not our inten-
tion to suggest any criticism
of students involved in our sub-
sidized program, nor do we
imply that a strong athletic
program is out of place in a
good college. Further, we are
aware that the operation of
sucb subsidized athletics is en-
tirely out of line with the ed-
ucational purposes of the Col-
lege.

KEM ANDERSON
BILL ANDREWS
JOHN BAILEY
DON CARROLL
CECIL CLIFTON
BOB DUGGER

ED DWELLE

TOM EARNHARDT
SAM HATCHER
STEVE HUMPHREY
HERB JACKSON
BOBBY LANE
CHUCK MATTHEWS
‘WILL NORMAN
MIKE POWELL
JULIAN PROSSER
MARVIN SPARROW
TOM THEL
CHARLES VICK
BILL WATSON
Davidson College

To my way of thinking, to
let a bolshevic (sic) talk on
your campus when Americans
are dying in opposition to what
he stands for is blatant abuse.
If you could exhume Hitler
would you let him tell you how
rational was the Jewish ex-
termination? Would he have
his rights? What about a gang-
ster? Do you really have no
conception of where freedom
stops and treachery begins?

What could this man tell you
to explain the Bertin Wall
where people die every month
in a desperate effort to es-
cape? What could he tell you
that you don't already know
by thinking on the slaughter of
the Hungarians who wanted to
get ‘from under the Red heel?
How could you listen to this
man who represents a God-
less, slave state, while your
country is in a death struggle
to preserve freedom.

You are young, but not too

young to know that millions of
dollars have been spent, many
lives lost, many brilliant minds
taxed to make you a part of
the greatest nation on earth.
The future belongs to you. You
are the future. If you fall un-
der the spell of evil chicanery,
if you let yourselves be talked
out of a matchless heritage, if
you fall into a trap and are
chained, then the ‘Last, best
hope of earth’ goes down with
you. Why should this purveyor
of darkness be hosted by
Church and Country?

Is there one among you who
can think for himself and dare
to speak out. Think hard and
speak clearly, for a_belea-
gured (sic) world is listening
—behind the iron curtain, the
bamboo curtain. the Berlin
wall — as well as those who
eling to freedom. The world
listens.

ISOBEL SMITH LAWTON
Publisher, Florence Times

Fools’ Name

By EDWARD DWELLE
Associate Editor

And

Fools’ Faces ft:

Intellectual Atmosphere?

THE SELF-STUDY REPORT made by the faculty
for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
should be required reading for all students at David-
son: It would destroy much of our assumed superiority
and smugness and, hopefully, promote student interest .
and concern in the present and future welfare of the
institution. We must realize that our personal educa-
tional reputation is directly dependent upon the edu-
cational reputation of the college; we cannot escape
being “products” of this institution.

Of particular interest is the section entitled ‘Intel-
lectual Atmosphere”; the report both commends and
criticizes the prevailing intellectual atmosphere and
makes recommendations for improving it. But the re-
port contains some glaring omissions, in my opinion. In
dealing with extra-curricular intellectual activities, the
report states that, “probably the most valuable of these
(extra-curricular intellectual experiences) are the sev-
eral strong programs of visiting lecturers, sponsored by
various groups on the campus. , .

TT GOES ON TO CITE three of these programs as
most. noteworthy: Artist Series, Otts Lectures, and
Reynolds Lectures. In further comment, the report ex-
plains that the Otts Lectures suffer from being a not
re ly-scheduled activity, limited in permitted topic
selection, and poorly scheduled. It also explains that
the Reynolds Lectures have suffered from having too
much concentration in limited academic areas and that,
perhaps, visiting lecturers are poorly attended because
they follow one another so closely.

Now, I agree with all of these comments, but there
are more to be made: It is almost impossible to do any-
thing about the Otts Lectures. The irregular flow of
income prevents having them regularly and the topic
limitation is legally sealed. But they could be sched-
uled more effectively. The Reynolds Lectures do not
suffer from these first two ills, but they suffer serious-
ly from lack of proper scheduling. And I lay the blame
for this lack of planning and foresight at the feet of
the Dean of the Faculty.

s e

IT IS his responsibility to secure and schedule these
lectures, yet year after year they are put off. We miss
many prominent foreign scholars because we have wait-
ed too late to contact them. And when lectures are
scheduled, it is usually during that very busy portion
of late spring when lack of time—not of interest—pre-
vents many students from attending. If the Dean is too
busy to handle this responsibility properly, then he
Should relinquish it—perhaps to the Chaplain’s Office
—so that these lectures can truly benefit a majority of
Students.

s s e

_ THERE ARE similar problems with the Artist Se-
ries, particularly this year. There were no Artist Series
events during the first semester, and now, several are
being crowded into this semester. But, more particu-
larly, we really do not have any substantial administra-
tive support for the arts at Davidson. I understand that
a meager five thousand dollars a year is budgeted for
the Artist Series,yet we do not understand why stu-
dents do not attend these events very well. And we
purport to be a liberal arts college with an exciting
intellectual (and by implication, cultural) atmosphere!

In describing awards to students, the report makes
some very critical comments on certain academic de-
partments and programs, including Physics, Biology,

story, English, Psychology, and Pre-Med. But the
most telling criticism deals with the intellectual atmos-
phere on the campus: “The quality of the dialogue that
pervades the campus seems to be embarrassingly lack-
the a the nee, And the report holds the faculty and,
en , Tespons: t
of the dislogue! y, resp e for the poor quality
* s ®

BUT I WANT to go a step further: I hold the Dean
of the Faculty responsible for the prevailing quality of
the intellectual atmosphere on the campus, and I hold
him responsible for that atmosphere being below par
if it is. Obviously, 1 think that the quality of the intel-
lectual atmosphere at Davidson is not what it should be.

Why is the Dean responsible? Because I think that.
at Davidson, it is his responsibility to be the leader of
the intellectual activities of the campus; by leading, I
mean that he must provide the direction, uphold the
quality, and impose the control for this intelfectual at-
mosphere. If he does not, no one else will, and chaos
will prevail.

e ¢ e

HOPEFULLY, the Dean is providing this leadership
in and through his Blue Sky Committee; but the Blue
Sky Committee is not enough, for we must take care of
the present as well as the future, and the Committee
cannot and must not handle every facet of school life,
or Toston its Saha ae can no longer ignore

2 « .
or sink deeper into the mire. Sport; we must act now
