Che Dauidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the schuol year, except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson,

N.C

SAM BOYTE
Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

FRIDAY, APRIL 28. 1967

A Hand On The Reins |

No one should be surprised by: the
unanimous Student Council endorse-
ment Monday of increased student
power as proposed in Appendix II of
the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Stu-
dent Life.

It should be noted that the Council
went to great pains to point out that
only the principle of such proposals as
the College Council was endorsed. An-
other notable move by the council was
the approval extended to the faculty’s
recognition of the value of student
participation in the college as formal-
ized in the Faculty Constitution. The
reason that these two council actions
are so important is that they indicate
that the student body is and has been
convinced that any increase in stu-
dent power in any form is valuable
for the college as a whole.

Total student administration may
not be the solution to all the ills that
hinder the further development of the
great potential resting in the college
now. Nevertheless, every step short of
that will be an improvement. The cry
of so many educators on all levels is
for active involvement by the students
in the process of learning. Student
power in the decision-making process
of the school is one aspect of achiev-
ing this goal.

It simply is not true that all knowl-
edge about the manner in which the
college can best benefit its students is
held by the faculty and administra-
tion. This fact is well-known by the
students who are interested in making
the most of their four years here. The
most wide-awake members of the fac-

ulty have been preaching it for years.
and even some members of the admin-
istration are cognizant of the fact. The
‘fact is more than the right of mature
students to determine their education.
The fact is that mature students do
not benefit most from sitting at their
teacher's knee soaking up his glorious-
ness.

It is quite probable that many of
the alumni who have sent sons to this
school have at some time told those
sons that sharing the cost of the col-
lege years will increase the benefit
from those years. Sharing responsibil-
ity for the college that provides the
facilities for learning works ‘in the
same way that sharing the expense
does.

However, the concept involved is
more than simply that the undergrad-
uate will appreciate his own creation
more than he does a handout. The im-
portance of such an idea as student
power (“black power,” “white power,”’
“cleansing power’: why not “student
power’'?) is that it improves the envi-
ronment in which the college experi-
ence occurs. The college as a whole is
definitely better if the value of stu-
dent power in decision-making is not
only recognized but, most important
ly, utilized.

The value of student power is known
by so many of those who are affected
by it. A great deal of such participa-
tion already exists on an informal lev-
el. The time has long since come for
student power to be institutionalized
as one of the guiding principles of Da-
vidson.

Remove The Blinders

The obituary section of Davidson's
alumni journal, the “Davidson College
Bulletin,” is the only part of the mag-
azine which approaches the tone of its
lead article, “Change of Page: The
Quiet Year.”

The author of this article must have
not only had his blinders on during the
school year, but he evidently also wore
them when the rest of the magazine
was being prepared. This lead piece
notes almost with pride the lack of
student activity which it sees as the
dominant tone of the campus.

No impression could be more incor-
rect. Perhaps. the intention of the
piece is to quiet alumni fears that the
students are alive and actually have
an interest in the college which ex-
ceeds that of the old men who occa-
sionally lean forward in their office
chairs to dash off an all too infrequent
check to dear old alma mater. If alum-
ni are worried about student activity,
they have some cause to be. And the
rest of that alumni magazine belies
the contention of the lead article that
there is no student activity.

The front of the journal pictures
Doug Woodworth and Bobby Lane,
who have served as student members
of the Blue Sky Committee. That in-
famous lead article noted the work
done by these two and by student sub-
committee members. It also gives the
impression that they are among a very
few interested and active students.

It fails to note, however, the student
interest which gained an undergradu-
ate voice on the committee. Even be-
fore the faculty agreed to accept stu-
dent members on the Blue Sky Com-
mittee, a shadow group of students
had been organized by the Student
Council, partially to get student repre-
sentation in the curriculum commit-
tee. Another function of the group
was to engage in some curriculum
study on its own if students were not
involved in the other college study.

To provide funds for the student

study and to demonstrate the concern
of students for the curriculum evalua-
tion, THE DAVIDSONIAN solicited $1
from every student. The drive was
halted before the complete figures
were in because the faculty agreed to
the students’ representatives, but sev-
eral staff members had already report-
ed 100 per cent participation on the
halls where they: solicited. Students
earnestly sought and got a student
voice in the most meaningful project
to hit the campus in years. Further
student leadership in the evaluation is
at least overtly limited by the weak,
tirnid policy of super-secrecy adopted
by the Blue Sky, which applies in as
harmful a way to the faculty as it does
to the students.

To cite another example of student

activity which is particularly appro-
priate since it is praised in the article
immediately after the lead article, the
Educational Planning program is a
very unselfish. expression of student
involvement in both Davidson and the
whole field of post-high school educa-
tion. The list of student-initiated pro-
jects such as STEP goes on. The au-
thor who claims that THE DAVID-
SONIAN has not even “really mount-
ed a full-fledged campaign against
anything” obviously was not around
.when the College Union overflowed
with students, faculty, and adminis-
trators who came to hear two coaches
defend their jobs with the mistaken
idea that they personally had anything
to do with the decision to subsidize or
de-subsidize athletics.

The Davidson student body in gen-
eral remains more conservative and
apathetic than the faculty. Any alum-
nus or alumni magazine writer who is
Satisfied with this situation is due to
have his blinders ripped rudely when
the presently increasing movement to-
ward full student participation in the
college is culminated. When that day
comes even the most befuddled alum-
nus (or apathetic student) will have to
admit the success of the college.

Greeks Bearing Gifts

Bringing a major poet to campus
does not require quite as much cour-
age as bidding a freshman whose
pledging could conceivably cost the
fraternity its national charter. On the
other hand, this week’s Beta Theta Pi
program like the latter example shows
that the fraternity system here has a
few sparks of light and life piercing
the dark areas such as Greek Week.

How much credit the present Betas
deserve depends on the reason that
one of their alumni established the
f-nds with which to inaugurate such
an annual series of poets. If he gave
h’s money because the present mem-
bership actively sought it, then that
act reflects credit on all involved.
Even if this was just an act of volun-
tarv generosity and interest, the way
that the members of that fraternity
reacted to his gift still is deserving of
commendation. It was almost impos-
sible to talk to a member of the Beta

house this week without being urged
to attend the readings given by Spen-
der. This must be one of the first
times that any group on campus has
expressed such collective concern over
the attention paid to any poet. Of
course, one exception immediately
comes to mind: that bunch of weirdos
up at the Union who everybody knows
do not really count anyway.

One more note needs to be tacked
onto this sincere bit of commendation
for a very praiseworthy program. The
past week’s introduction to a major
figure in the modern literary world
was not sponsored by Beta Theta Pi.
It was instead sponsored by an intelli-
gent, concerned group of Davidson
Students who eat at that fraternity
house on the Hill-side of the vacant
lot on Fraternity Court. It is only inci-
dental that they occasionally entertain
traveling representatives of a national
fraternity.

Cultural Offensive: 3 Poets On Campus

t \ W\q tf t
. yc 3

wy | AQ a

a
ME
, 7m

’
w

STEPHEN SPENSER
—($ WE THAT QAVYER
AT CAROLINA ?

»
,
4

. yS
+ f ¢
| th
aie e
. sete
o 4

Jackson Says Students
Respond Well To Mural

ED. NOTE: This is an in-

terview with Herb Jackson, -

painter of the mural in the Un-
ion.

PJ: Herb. would you care to
make any comment on your
mural in the basement of the
Union? A lot of people have
been waiting for some defi-
nite statement about it.

Herb: Yes. I have a state-
ment: It’s finished. Actually
I've been pleased with the de-
gree of intelligence shown in
the questions people have ask-
ed me about it. Of course,
there have been a few notable
exceptions, as when Mrs. Bor-
deaux said that it was the
‘Senior Class hoax,"’ designed
to do away with class gifts,
and when Dr, McKelway asked
me if it was through the day
I began.

PJ: I notice that there is a
large difference between the
mural and your other paint-
ings. Is there any reason be-
hind this seeming lack of a
fixed style?

Herb: A set unity of style is
something I'm avoiding now,
though .I do use a continuous
force concept and a rather
personal color signature.

To affirm one style would be
dangerous: each piece should
be looked at individually. then
if someday my styles converge
it won't be from a single line.

A single style makes the art.

» fst too important. The public

should look at each piece. The

artist is just like anyone else;
he just looks at the human
condition in different ways.

As for the mural, the sur-
face. not being canvas, lent
itself to that particular kind
of exploration. It has the same
formal concepts as my other
works. One thing that inter-
ested me about doing the mu-
ral was that I was working in
a public studio. The people
didn't understand the function
of a studio and kept comment-
ing on it during its various
stages. It was very frustrat-
ing.

“PJ: The attack has been lev-
eled on Davidson many times
that it is anti-intellectual and
anti-creative. Would you care
to comment on that?

Herb: There is a lot of lat-
ent talent on the campus that
needs to be pushed and helped,
Yor can find a lot of artists

under pre-meds. But David.

son. like most Southern col-

By AshtonTrice

leges, has to contend with the
fact that most artists leave for
the larger Northern markets.
Yet artists are needed just to
be around because ail fields
need a creative approach, and
this is especially important in
a school.

As far as being anti-crea-
tive... welll, at least there's
no void. You can’t expect ev-
eryone to be a poet. But if
you are looking for concrete
examples to refute the charge.
I think that the increase of
people taking studio art and
the fact that I sell well on this
campus are good ones.

T would like to say that in
talking about the mural I was
just trying to reach a point
where you don't have to talk
about it.

PJ: By the way what is the
title of the mural?

Herb: Mural . . . more spe-
cifically the Union Mural .. .
the New Action Union Mural.

» ONE LAST SHOT =
Administration Termed

‘Negative, Reactionary’

ED. NOTE: This is the sec-
ond instaliment of Dan Mom-
brea’s article, which was be-
gun last week. The purpose
of the column is fo allow
those who are not returning
next year to express thelr
opinions about the college.

By DAN MOMBREA

The students of this college
have been the primary agents
of change. The faculty has in
many ways helped us: espe-
cially the younger, newer fac-
ulty members, who are not so
apt as the senior professors
to look back on the good old
days. when the only Negroes
on campus were ‘“‘the help.”
the primary function of the
college was to produce a
Southern Gentleman, and stu-
dents were required to go to
church services every day,
etc., etc.. ad nauseum.

These younger teachers. led
by men like Mr. Epes, Mr.
Secor, and Dr. Abbott, have
brought fresh blood to the
school. communicating enthu-
siasm in the classroom and in-
jecting new ideas into the fac-
ulty body. Together it would
seem that these two groups—
teachers and students— who
compose the overwhelming
majority of the college family,
would be able to effect change
without too much trouble or
delay. But real basic change
in every area from social life
to campus regulations to cur-
riculum revision has not come.

The obvious question is
*‘Why?" and the equally obvi-
ous answer, which everyone
knows but no one dares say,
is—the Davidson College ad-
ministration is the single mest
negative, reactionary, growth-
stunting organization on this

campus (except for the YRC,
possibly).

This is not to say the admin-
istration is basically evil, or
diabolically subverting change
as a part of some conscious
plot to thwart student aspira-
tions, it is merely stating fact.

When did the president of
this college. supposedly the
leader and driving force be-
hind our education, last mean-
ingfully communicate with the
student body? or last present
the college with a truly pro-
gressive educational idea?
When did the Dean of Students
last willingly side with the stu-
dent body—on any issue?

Why has the admissions de-
partment managed to main-
tain token integration, despite
student indignation over the
obvious hypocrisy we all havé
to live under?

Where is the imagination,
concern, foresight or even ac-
cessibility that should be char-
acteristics of a leading col-
lege’s administration, but ex-
ist here in the most minute,
hard-to-find quantities?

These are questions that
must be answered before we
can really move ahead. These

are problems — and must be
solved because they are the
foundations upon which the
ten to twenty year educational
gap found here is built. It is
going to be up to the student
body, or rather the students
who are concerned, working
together, and with the fac-
ulty, to solve them.

This school needs to be
changed. The Blue Sky Com-
mittee is not a cure-all for all
our ills. It is not time to sit
back and wait for that com-
mittee to radically transform
this college, or even success-
fully update it.

Its recommendations will be
harassed and whittled at con-
tinually, and the power it sup-
posedily has is megely one of
suggestion. It is, after-all, a
committee.

Change is not going to come
to Davidson College easily.
Change will not come unop-
posed. The conservative forces
on this campus are not going
to change their minds simply
because the Blue Sky Commit-
tee says they should.

But for this college to con-
tinue as a leader of small col-
leges, change must come.

Fools’ Nam By EDWARD DWELLE

Fools’ Faces fx:
Will The Future Be Like The Past?

There seems to be little or no doubt among stu-
dents and educators today that there is a massive so-
cial revolution taking place among the youth of this
country—or about to take place, depending upon where
you are and how alert you are. Most parents and other
adults are appalled and repulsed by the extremes of
student behavior and, quite frankly, don’t understand
it. They are quite able to criticize such behavior; but
they usually do not attempt to understand the causes
or are unable to do so. Such adults normally shrug
their shoulders and say, “The generational gap's widen-
ing.” And it is, but why is it doing so? This is certainly
no radical break with history, the past. Is it possible—
or probable—that the adults have substantially contrib-
uted to the formation of these behavior patterns in
their children?

For quite some time now, we have all been report-
ing “what students (youth) are doing today.” But few
reporters have sought the causes of student behavior.
It seems to me that the time has come to do so, to ask
why. One of the most accurate such accounts that I
have read is “The Roots of Student Despair” by Sey-
mour L. Halleck in the March-April issue of Think,
published by 1.B.M. Halleck is director of student psy-
chiatry and a professor of psychiatry at the University
of Wisconsin.

Halleck asserts that those students who do feel
despair are frequently from homes with a family con-
flict but that this is not a sufficient explanation for
student despair. We must also search for the causes in
the nature of the student’s world, in those sociological,
economic, and moral factors which lead him to per-
ceive his existence as questionable, at best. One such
explanation is presented by Kenneth Keniston in his
book, The Uncommitted. Our reverence for progress
and change, says Keniston, and our new technology
have contributed to producing a society in which
change takes place at a faster rate each year and in
which the nature of the near future is impossible to
predict. The elite (and despairing) student is among
the first to realize that the values of the past may be
totally inappropriate for the world in which he will be
an adult. The student furthermore despairs of the fu-
ture since he finds it unpredictable and feels powerless
to direct it. Faced with a bewildering rate of social
change, he learns to avoid commitment and to live in
the present. ;

There are at least six other aspects of American
culture which Halleck feels help explain current st-
dent conduct: The student is trapped between his early
training in the Protestant ethic and the amount of lei-
sure and pleasure which are available to him. The stu-
dent has little personal contact with adults and thus
must conform to peer group values, which support re-
bellion against adults; our society overly emphasizes
youth and thus forgets that their admirable physical
qualities do not imply admirable wisdom, gained
through experience; students have had unlimited ac-
cess to the cynical truths of life and come to doubt the
value of any institution which represents conformity;
the death of President Kennedy has had a demoraliz-
ing influence on students which is real and baleful;
today’s students are not taught to love learning simply
for the sake of learning and thus question the kinds
of mastery, discipline and accomplishment that have
gratified older generations—Are the rewards worth
the effort?

The problems which trouble the youth of this
country have no immediate solutions. But one fact
seems clear enough: If our society continues its un-
planned growth, we will see more and more people.
who lead meaningless lives. Student unrest is only one
manifestation of a kind of uneasiness that pervades
our entire society, and any remedies must be global
and musé consider both the nature.of man and his cur-
rent world. Suppose the troubled students actually rep-
resent a symbol of protest against a future society that
cannot meet humanistic needs.

We cannot simply assume that people will accom-
modate their personalities to new conditions of life and
that all will go well. We must critically examine so-
ciety’s rate of change and plan to counteract those
changes which threaten to have adverse consequences.
It is possible for man to plan his own progress and
eventually to contro! the social tides which threaten us.

Well, adults of the United States (and the world)
—wWhat are you going to do about it? It is, ultimately,
the mess which you have made of the country for which
today’s students revile you and your institutions. Don’t
try to squirm off the hook; it’s your fault and don’t
deny that the situation exists. Face it, today’s student
is not rebelling against the rules that you have made—
he rejected those long ago. But he is rebelling against.
the institutions which embody those rules.

Today’s student is not rejecting authority as such.
He is, however, rejecting forms of authority which
seem to him not to be working any longer. Today’s
student wants authority but not that of outmoded in-
stitutions. He wants the freedom of institutions which
will work within contemporary society. Please note this
use of freedom; it is not license—it is the freedom of
control and. authority.

___ Unfortunately, adults, most of you are already too
rigid; there will probably have to be a social revolu-
tion, for you cannot give up the power of your existing
institutions — you cannot change — and you must be
overthrown.

But there is one Possibility for a more orderly
rocess of change: Adults must help these students to
orm viable institutions and to plan for social change.

No generation has been more adept at criticizing ex-
isting institutions than my own but we are somewhat
unable to replace these outworn institutions. We are
going to tear down most existing institutions, but we
need your help in forming new ones. You adults had
best give us your help: if you don’t we may all fail.

by johnny hart

+ LOOK AT THAT! ... Poor
THING TooK 12. snTcHEs !
