The Davidsonian

NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY

Published weekly by the students of Davidson College during the school year. except
during holidays and examination periods. Entered as second class matter at Davidson.

SAM BOYTE
Edttor-in-Chief

BILL WATSON
Business Manager

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1967

A Warning

As the lack of a clearly-delineated
decision-making process becomes
more apparent at Davidson, the role
of the college newspaper must become
a more active voice for desired im-
provements.

The past few years have seen the
student body here realize its right and
potential for influence, just as stu-
dents have at other schools across the
nation. Steps have been taken towards
realization of this potential—with both
positive and negative results.

Positively. these steps have resulted
in more effective articulation of the
interests of motivated individual stu-
dents and of the student. body as a
whole. On the other hand, students, as
well as an increasing percentage of
the faculty and administration, are be-
coming more aware of the fact that
the decision-making process at David-
son seems to be largely just a buck-
passing process. It is also apparent
that the exact route along which that
buck is passed is indeed a very foggy
road, the course of which is hidden to
allybut an experienced elite who sit in
the driver's seat.

In the light of these conditions the
need grows for what might be called
an institutionalized informal focus of
articulation of college interests. THE
DAVIDSONIAN as “The News and Ed-
itorial Voice of the Davidson College
Student Body” can serve this purpose
in at least two important ways.

The first reflects the most super-
ficial meaning that can be attributed
to that slogan which appears on our
nameplate. The paper can act directly
as an open forum for students, fac-
ulty, alumni or for anyone who is con-
cerned enough about an issue to take
the trouble to express himself in a let-
ter to the editor.

All letters are printed in as com-
plete a manner as the limitation of
space will allow. The fact that this is
using the most superficial meaning
of that motto does not mean that it is
any less of a valid function.

The interest articulation function of
the paper can be carried out in an-
other way that is at the same time
more individual than the idea of the

Moral Education

The Alcohol Forum held on the past
two nights has been an excellent idea,
the partial success of which is imme-
diately apparent.

Although the effort cannot be called
a complete success until it is seen
whether the enthusiasm generated is
lasting enough to bring about a solu-
tion to the college rules problem over
consumption of alcohol, the fact that
the forum brought discussion between
the faculty and.students may be even
more important than what panel mem-
bers said.

From the statements made by facul-
ty members at last night’s program,
objections to a “wet” campus seem to
boil down to the maintenance of favor-
able study conditions on campus and
to the role which the college should
play in educating students to deal with
what may be called a current moral
problem in American society.

Those who base their objections on
the latter point seem to be concerned
over what was called the growing tol-
erance of public drunkenness in our
society, and the problems suffered in
connection with individual cases of
problem drinking. Dr. George Aber-
nethy made a significant point in stat-
ing that it is not enough for a school
to educate its students to deal with
what is admittedly a drinking society
by having them learn how to drink. It
should be readily apparent that many
of the problems of a drinking society
can be handled effectively by non-
drinkers and that the college should
certainly not have required drinking.

The position thus far is sound. How-
ever, when the argument goes on to
become a defense for the present fac-
ulty rule against the consumption of
alcoholic beverages on campus it
breaks down. The reason that it does
is that the present policy has no basis
for claiming to deal more effectively
with this educational task than would
a policy of required drinking. All that
the faculty does now is prohibit drink-
ing on campus. This is just a rule, not

open forum and more collective. This
function is found in the area of the
editorial positions taken by the news-
paper. These decisions are relatively
individual in the sense that they are
not the result of polling the opinions
of the entire student body, They are
more collective in the sense that the
basis of these decisions is not the in-
terest of one individual, or of a small
group or even of the entire student
body. Instead, editorial decisions are
based on one desire that should unite
all elements which are connected with.
the school: the basic desire to improve
the status of the college.

This desire may seem so basic and
so general that no effective decisions
could spring from it. It is true that
any sort of editorial campaign amount-
ing to no more than a general urge for
“Improvement” would be ineffective.
Instead this basic premise must be
used as a scale with which to evaluate
the stand to be taken on a given issue.
Having reached such a decision, the
paper then has the opportunity to take
advantage of its positions as the only
comprehensive news source available
about the college on a weekly basis.
Of course, no one would be conceited
enough to believe that all people to
whom this college is important stand
outside their doors on every Friday
evening anxiously awaiting THE DA-
VIDSONIAN. But it can be assumed
that the paper is actively. read by those
who are most deeply concerned with
the improvement of the school and
who have the power necessary to im-
plement improvements.

If anyone feels the need for a warn-
ing about what sort of philosophy will
guide the operations. of THE DAVID-
SONIAN for the next year, then this
is it. There are enough secretaries
around the college who are getting
paid to limit themselves to publishing
announcements. For students to spend
the necessary time and effort to put
out an excellent newspaper, they must
feel that their purpose is more than
that, although that too is an important
function of their work. The fact that
the newspaper does have the most
public voice in advocating means of
improving the college is a convincing
argument for expanding that effort.

an educational process. The rule is ac-
tually irrelevant to educating students
to deal with whatever problems do
arise in a drinking culture. To term
the rule irrelevant is to put it in its
most favorable light because sound
arguments can be used to show that
the rule is more harmful than irrele-
vant. The harm stems from the often
repeated, but still true, fact that it im-
poses an unrealistic situation.

The unrealistic aspect of that situa-
tion is not that it enforces an unnat-
urally dry atmosphere. Because of
their close contacts with students the
faculty should be aware that students
do drink in dormitories to a certain
extent, even if a few Trustees and par-
ents may not realize the fact. The un-
realistic aspect is that it puts drinking
in a context where it is supposed to
be socially “illegal,” a situation that
does not exist in the “sophisticated”
environment from which students
come and to which they return on
leaving college. As all of the panel
members admitted, the pressures of
society are to drink. While the laws of
North Carolina do not allow open bars
or even “brown-bagging” right now,
the state has recognized the popular
acceptance of drinking alcoholic bev-
erages by legalizing the sale of such
products at least on the basis of local
county options.

The North Carolina laws are among
the most conservative in the nation,
but those of the faculty go even be:
yond them. The North Carolina laws
at least do not prohibit the most civi-
lized expression of the custom which
is drinking in one’s home. The faculty,
however, is doing exactly that, as a
student’s dormitory room must be con-
sidered his home even though it does
lack the aspects of civilization that are
to be found in the environment from
which most students come. Until the
faculty rules do accept this sort of re-
alism, they cannot effectively educate
students about the moral problems
ciety can stem from alcohol in our so-

ety.

ODD EASTER SERVICE

‘Smash-In’ ‘Be-ln’ Are ‘In’ In New York

By MIKE NORRIS
Feature Writer

Easter Sunday in church?
For the hip of New York the
scene is Central Park's Sheep
Meadow. Daffodils to the early
morning arrivals. Bring a
lunch or just mooch off oth-
ers. Dress will be creative.

Smash ins to be held during
the morning. Music? Live, in-
cluding bongos. flutes, guitars,
-and 50-galion steel drums. Bal-
loons are provided.

Girls? Yes—hot. nice, or
strange. Most are friendly.
Support the UFC (United Fruit
Company) and smoke a ba-
nana. Festivities begin at sun-
rise and continue until after
sunset.

Seven Easter morning in
Central Park and I wander
lonely as a cloud until some
chic (sharp) wanders over,
hands me this daffodil, kisses
my cheek, and whispers
“Love” in my ear. ‘Sure,
baby, anytime,” I told her.
And the Be In was on.

I began eating one of my
two oranges when this clod in
filthy clothes came up and
told me. “I would like an or-
ange.’ I gave him one. He
devoured it in seconds, threw
the peel on the ground, and
walked off.

I stood there for a minute.
then some felllow walked up
and handed me half of his loaf
of French bread. The word of

Banana Hymn

‘Reflections

(Ed. note: This poem was forwarded to
THE DAVIDSONIAN by Dr. Atlan Rhodes
of the chemistry department of Cleveland
State University. it has been reprinted in
several newspapers as a protest against
Vietnam and war in generat.)

Why should you worry or give a damn
About what happens in Viet Nam?

Why is it any of your concern

If men and women and children turn?
Only a pacifist, saint or fool

Believes in stuff like the Golden Rute . . .
You know the answer—you know it well--
“This is a war and war is hell!"

Yes, war is hell for the men that fight,

the day was Love, and the

motto must have been, “‘It's.

good to give.”

Many people had brought
food to share for breakfast
and lunch. A few had brought
bananas and grass to share—
sparingly—for a mid-morning
smoke.

Most of the early arrivals
gathered on a large rock over-
looking’ the meadow. A few
just lay around on blankets
making out. Two multi-colored
signs proclaiming their mes-
Sages of ‘‘Simply Wonderful’
and ‘‘Mush’’ were hung from
a tree. One cat with the flaps
of his WWII fying cap pulled
down over his ears was rest-
ing in another.

The whole hillside smelled
of incense which had been pur-
chased for 50 cents a pack at
Village button stores and pass-
ed out to the crowd. The wind
was blowing. so people began
to fly kites. Some cat in a red
army helmet with “LOVE”
written across the back began
to organize a smash-in.

In this group activity the
participants join outstretched
arms to form a gigantic cir.
cle. When the man in the red
helmet blew his whistle every-
one ran headlong into the cen-
ter, hugging one another and
chanting “‘Love."

Around 11 a number of cops
showed up, thus sending the

hippies into a mild frenzy. Ac- .

well—

tion taken included bombard-
ment with daffodils, the for-
mation of mobs screaming
*“Love,'' or the most beautiful
action of all—the random se-
lection of some poor cop wan-
dering alone in Sheep Meadow
to become the center of a gi-
gantic smash-in.

Attire for the day included
top hats, miniskirts, and old
Army uniforms. Many people
had pasted small metal reflec-
tors to their foreheads. Spider-
man showed up complete with
net webbing hanging from his
armpits.

In the afternoon two men
wearing suits made from
strips of paper made an ap-
pearance. Girls with painted
faces and miniskirts wander-
ed throughout the crowd pass-
ing out jellybeans.

Later, a man showed up
with helium-filled balloons, for
free or 10 cents—you paid if
you felt like it.

Balloons were tied together
and bananas (whose inside
peeling can be dried and smok-
ed to produce a cheap mari-
juana effect) were sent float-
ing out over the city. (One can
only wonder how long it will
be before the Narcotics Bu-
reau files charges against the
United Fruit Company.)

Impromptu) music groups
grew up everywhere. Their
repertoires ranged from blues
to folk, rock and psychedelic..

On Vietnam’

“This is war and war is hell!"

Try to project what your thoughts would be
If you left your home as a refugee:
Try to imagine the sense of fear

When the napalm scatters and flames ap-
pear...

What kind of feelings would it inspire
If you watched a child with its flesh on fire?

Could you find words for the pilots above

late:

Who boast about morals and Christian love?

War is a gamble played with Fate
Where the stakes are high and the hour is

War is the writing seen on the wall

Pawns on a chessboard, brown and white: all...
It's time to worry and time to care,

War is death in a sea of mud

To the sound of bullets and stench of blood:
War is madness told as the truth,
Torturing women and crippling youth . . .

But you know the answer — you know it

1 MeAN,

‘Weir |

You ARG A REAL.

WeERSGy

Which threatens to come and engulf us

It’s time to pity and time to share;
And see ourselves in the other man’s place,
It's time to consider the Human Race

Richard I. Briggs

One of the most popular
groups included three bongos,
a couple of guitars, a flute,
and a three foot model of a
banana. Its repertoire was
repetitious banana eulogies set
to a psychedelic calypso beat.

And so the day went. The
Be-In grew from a hundred
hippies to several thousand.
TV cameras came and went.

A large wooden cross was
erected and decorated with
balloons and daffodils. An al-
tar-like construction was made
from orange peels, popsicle
sticks and dirt. Hippies came
and went. Some were really

beautiful. enjoying a sunny
day in the park by giving away
whatever they'd brought with
them.

A few a very few— were fo}
lowing the motto of “Give
me.” For them, the hippy doc
trine is only a justification of
taking advantage of everyone
else.

The sun finally set and the
last of the crowd wandered
off. On 72nd Street the hippies
drifted home, reminding one
another of the next major
spring social rite—the April
15 demonstration to end the
war in Vietnam.

) Looking
~ Gackwards

| By GEOFF SEAMANS
Associate Editor
ec 3 Ee

Simply Out Of It

Paul Goodman’s The Community of Scholars, in
which he analyzes what’s wrong in American higher
education today and formulates some specific propos.
als to achieve what he thinks would be (and has been
in the past) the proper role of a college, makes for in-
teresting reading.

Not everything he says is original, perhaps not all
of it is even wise, though a large portion seems so to
this participant in the knowledge mill. Much of what
he says is predictable to anyone familiar at all with
Goodman: he calls for the virtual abolition of an ad-
ministrative structure.

Goodman’s ideal is a small community of Students,
who are apprenticed to a group of professional schol.
ars and workers (e.g., lawyers, doctors, businessmen)
to train for civilization. There are no teachers per se,
but only professionals who, in their devotion to their
vocations, possess intense desire to impart their knowl-
edge to. the young.

So far, Goodman sounds like a one-man Blue Sky
Committee. Artists-in-residence, a freer academic ai-
mosphere, a relevant curriculum are all goals of most
liberal-minded people concerned with the future of
Davidson College.

__ However, Goodman realizes the necessity of library
facilities, of cultural and social outlets, and the like.
facilities which are generally provided through the
money-raising efforts of an active administration and in
the context of a fairly sizeable university.

Since he is attempting to rid his ideal college of
both administration and size (and thereby return to an
earlier era in the history of higher education), Good:
man is faced with a problem.

He finds a solution by locating his ideal either
near a large city or at least a large university (although
fot hinder such a university's administrative jurisdic-
; Obviously, this is not a final solution, depending as
it does on an institution which Goodman would just as
soon see extinct. However, he does not claim finality
for his solution, viewing it instead as simply a begin-
ning in an attempt to restore to higher edfcation its
proper functions.

Goodman does not even consider a college in a
rural environment. Here is where I believe Davidson’s
greatest problem lies. No matter how much the aca-
demic rules are liberalized, no matter how much the
curriculum is made relevant, no matter how many art-
ists-in-residence we get, the problem still remains. .

Davidson College is simply out of it. Not only is it
rural, but it is Southern rural. Not only is it not near a
eouly major city, it’s not near any kind of academic

, Davidson must have strong administrative leader-
ship to raise the tremendous amount of money neces-
sary for any semblance of culturally relevant intellec-
tual activity in such an isolated environment. Yet, such
an emphasis on administration works to the detriment
of the college, by turning it away from its proper func-
tions. One result is the professional athletle spectacle:
because the program (theoretically anyway) provides
money and publicity, some find it invaluable to the col-
lege. Yet to me, it is obvious that such a program is
aiso detrimental to the basic educational goals of Da-

In my view, for Davidson to survive as a reason-
ably good college, it must (in the not-too-distant fu-
ture) choose either to relocate, or (and this is perhaps
likelier) to embark on a program of expansion, such as
the establishment of co-ordinate colleges, thereby cre-
ating the university environment while retaining a cer-
tain amount of smallness.

® e

e
D I gratefully acknowledge the aid I received from
- Sumner Bullard in deciding on a name for this col-
umn. Of course, it was taken from the title of the fa-
mous nineteenth-century utopian tract and social com-
mentary of Edward Bellamy. I hope in this way it re-

flects the content of the column.
_The relevance of the title to any commentary on
Davidson College written by a person trained in the

Davidson tradition is, I trust, obvious.

THAT'S YoHY :
7 Love You /
