‘JULES AND JIM’

EXAMINED

LIX

ue

AVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3. 1969

c

.

ACADEMIC

EAR OPENED

Proctor Keynoter At Convocation

t Proctor
recei

t honorary
degree d by Davidson
College to a bili
gave the keynote speech ata
formal convocation of the
Davidson academic commun
ity held Monday in celebra
tion of the beginning of ano
ther academic year

The convocation, t
ever at Davidson

k man and

recog

Ee cufessard Vi isit
Ft. Leavenworth

By RICH WILSON
Staff Writer

N \ (
fessor ‘
thé ’ Air
port on sen t tpri
vate Air Force n Nieh
stood 1 +4 ! !
ay Ko Leaver th
K
Those m trip
I Cc re dson
Dr. Albert A Wil
liam F re Hol
1 | \V mupe
T. Barl 1
dD ie)
\ nd ( \ i)
pro vs visit
S.A ¥ Command
G ral Staff Coll ‘
gh-ranking officers
majors and Jieu
colonels receive one
year of graduate training

It proved to be a very
interesting and a very con
troversial trip

The purpose of going to
Fort Leavenworth, accord
ing to Col. Foster, who co
ordinated the trip, was “‘to
allow different members of
the faculty to view the army
schoo! system and see_ the
type of training that is giv
en along with the teaching
aids which are used.”

After they returned: and
reflected on the trip, some
faculty members agreed with
Foster about the purpose;
others completely disagreed;
and at least one wasn't sure
yet what the purpose was.

Davidson, Director of the
Library and _ professor of
History, realized from the
trip that ‘‘the military knows
how to do more than just
kill people. Sure the program
we followed and the informa
tion we received was army
propaganda, but not any
more than the propaganda
we receive every Sunday
morning about the Christian
religion trying to. save our
souls.”

“The courses of study there
were educationally sound,
and the lectures which I sat

Freshmen
Elections
Postponed

Senior Class President Jim
Hinshaw, the acting elec-
tions chairman of the Stu-
dent Government .Associa-
tion announced this week a
postponement in all fresh-
men elections.

In releasing a new elec-
tiom schedule, Hinshaw said
that ‘“‘more time is needed
for freshmen to become ac-
quainted with their  class-

*mates.”

Elections to be held Oct.
14 will include residence Hall
Senators and RHC Repre-
sentatives for  upperclass-
men dorms, including one
floor of Watts, junior class
senator, and senior class
cheerleader

Filing deadline for the
election is next Tuesday,
Oct. 7.

According to: Hinshaw,
the junior senatorial seat
is to be filled due to the
vacancy left by Junior
Class President Gary Cash,
who is spending his junior
year abroad, and the senior
cheerleading spot is left
open by the resignation of
John Chalk.

s didates for the bache n gap faced by the poor
lot country

Both the seniors and the “In erder to finish near
facuky entered in a formal the top, no matter how

pfocession, attired in caps

and go

smart, one must be near the
top from the earliest of his

a former presi
: sinia Union Uni
versity and North Carolina
A&T State University, an

days.’ Proctor said of col

lege entrance requirements
said that the black col
» student from a segregat

ewuthor, and a professor. of

Education at -Rutg

versity. &poke @ le educa

ed school system usually has

rs-_U ‘
a rough time. He may feel

lost inca college

students have been
ick with fittle educa

epportunittes forse
they need a head start
higher education, Proctor
were good.”” Davidsot aid
’ Hi dded that funds nuld
t be giver to tl Ve (
\ the wonderft to hold dards, bu
Visual I ih bring.” larger numbers _ of
Thes were blacks within reach of those
modert dp tandards
Wy -n cal setise Dp
; Proctor describec f
NSU cuaes : he problems. that black
} Ss } 1 ) Ca dt i é Cr
he said ape ar
Professor Jackson, ‘instru TlaGhiee andsontel
of politic history, on che, RHEE RIAIhiA Au anecs tie
(See Leavenworth, .Page &) ket joining fee transpor

THE DAVIDSON ASSEMBLY LINE

With the advent’ of decreased restrictions on cars and
scholarships, there has come also a rise in the number of
cars. Without the addition of increased parking facilities,
there has also been a rise in the number of illegally-parked
cars, and thus, parking tickets. With a number more than
308 cars, the problem is becoming a very real one. (Staff
photos by Davidson.)

THE DESIGN IS NEW

But the age-old Davidson parking problem is still age-old.

Paper Changes

he Davidsonian =”

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

NUMBER TWO

ition, etc. amount to one been hindered since youth by
huge embarrassment for the a sociological knot. — if hi
poor,”’ college will’provide the need

Hé'' Added! ‘however, that ed environment
the poor white and black Dr. Raul S. Crane, mission
Would have an equal oppor ary and director of the Chon
tunity if the college commun ju hospital in) Korea, and
ity would provide an environ Glenn Terrell, author and
ment which woduld give added president of Washington
energy : State University also received

He drew the analogy of a honorary degrees, Both arc
young pine tree which had Davidson —atann
been tied by a knot. but The Thon Jefferson A
which grew because of an oe ; a for excell

vcenti . " wy és an dedication in teacl ,
kegel - eee a WAR Hrescnied to Anthonre PROFTDR (Staff Photo by Davidson)
the black student, who has (See OPENING, Page 8) ADDRESSES CONVOCATION

Crane and Terrell observe during featured speech.

Moratorium Resolution
Closes Oct. 15 Classes

a

i . Student’ “Body Pi ssident of Davidson College expres
WP Peter Hobbie has epteped es its concern over the war
ki IPAPY ane re | Ne] reat appreciation’ for the in Vietnam. While as indivi

ully’s response to his re duals we differ in detail,

est for suspension of clas this body agrees to ipport
) on Oct 15, so ‘that the Vietnam Moratoriuny on
I i - ». Cihi Davidson might partictpate classes for October 15 only2
in the nationwide Vietnam The nationwide effort ealls
i : i ) d i ( Maratorium for a moratérium on busi
1 it and M
ecordin ’ ela : lissing Wi , old In a rather urprising ni usual,” and-urges a
Park, head of Reference and 7“ ‘i :
\ hic ad bel d move «Tuesday, the faculty day of public awareness. of
tud “rsamiel at !
ident “personnel at the | . Ret ap
to Robert . Hall Morrisor yoted by -an estimated two the war, 1f the pattern of
brary, there have been some ‘ i
: P fir president of.the colle foone margin to suspend the war is not chang fed. sig
genuine cases of vandalism yt it | f ' f fi tly foll
« ( Ww ClHASSCS Ww aiscussion oO nihieantly uv ’ rs
to books and other. atticles Park. said it would be un STC | ollowing the first
tuna . oF son stt {| ar issue moratorit a longer rp
at the library recently, ean if Davidson stu = ae ONE ' 1 i Rte HAD OREES TWICE
( i ‘ove that the The actui , > re scalec ‘ator 4
though ho-doubts—that-more ents h id to prove that they HOBBIE The actual text of the re i mot ttorium is sched
; fs Ay guste | : haven't stolen books from the . gulation, as passed, reads uled for November
than agsmall minority of the ‘it i praises action
students is. involved. ‘He ‘brary * Resolved, that the faculty However, the Davidson ef-

noted that a. set of framed fortis planned only for the

Gonteadintacwars pondenvae E } - It F if T GC k Oetober date, designed to
thrown out of the library arn ial (4 al S oO rac cooperate with the national
windows into the bushes, . effort

where they were damaged The programs for the 15th

min nae raestées’ Youth Barrier eee

framed a faculty forum and a wor»
Siepooke were cubuKed: tie Although the man tnost in the newly elected trustees Elected to serve as. vice ship Servite é
same way, he added, and the news did not win, the Will begin’ their work at the presidents of the alumni as Hobbie said that the David
were ined by. the weather alumni elections for trustees fall meeting of the trustees sociation beginning this fall son moratorium program
And aby silverfish. ‘This. is and for officers in the Na on October 30 and.31. Also were William L. Bondurant, Will be one for the campus
regrettable, for the kind of tional Alumni — Association at that time the new officers ‘98 and Wilbur S, Edwards, only, centering on confron
student body we have here,’ have been completed, accord of the alumni. association "47, tation among students with
aatd Parkes ing to Howard. B. .Arbuckle will begin their work, the war problem.
IIT, director of alumni ae John M. Trask Jr., 38, Bondurant © has served Slated to address the stu-
Some 250 to 400 books are’ — Uvities. who was elected last. year, Davidson before as assistant dents in the morning pro:
lost each year, he continued, Elected were three trustees will take office at the Home to the president, legal ad- gram is L. F, Griffin, from
most of which are simply and three new. officers for coming alumni meeting, > Y!80", and director of alumni Prince Edward County, Va.
taken out accidently and not the alumni association, Tom Daniel’ S. LaFar Jr. was activities. As a student here Griffin, a prominent figure
returned. All sorts of articles Earnhardt, who had attract clected to take office as pre- he was student body presi- in the integration movement
are 16st in this way, includ ed some attention as the sident in the fall of 1970. dent and was active in ODK in Virginia in the late 1950's,
youngest man ever to run LaFar holds an AB from and on The DAVIDSON will talk on how the war has
for the trusteeship, was not Davidson and-an-MBA’ from AN. affected national priorities.
elected according to Arbuck Harvard Business School. Edwards, an executive “Hevis not anexpert on
le. While at Davidson and an with the Encyclopedia Bri the war,” Hobbie said, “but
Returned to the Board of MBA from Harvard Busi« tanica and F, E. Compton we have not sought out an
Trustees were W. Harllee ness School. While at David Co., was active at Davidson expert. We feel that Mr.
Branch Oro 27 and Dr, W. son he was president of the as a member of ODK. the Griffin can stimulate some
T. Thompson Jr ’ 34 Sam student body and member of president of the student discussion and provoke some
ae es te Nia ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and body, a ‘member of Scab- yn ee
TEETeT the “D" Club. Currently. he bard -and Blade, and as a ogee se Le DE ie “ ser den
is Vice President of LaFar member of the YMCA Cab- will be of a seminar dis
Branch received an AB at Mills. thet, cussion format, with profes

Davidson and an LLB from sors providing viewpoints on

Emory in 1931. While at Da e the war. The evening ser
vidson he was a member of Murph Reeruits vice wiil be a memorial ser-
Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) y vice, conducted along the
honorary and. editor of the same lines as last eRe
DAVIDSONIAN, Also he holds Czechoslovakia ee ice.

nna Black Prospects {rrr

5 7 ; yension of are before the
College. Currently he is

chairman of the board and By STEVE ROADY contacted already had other
chief executive officer of The Staff Writer

faculty, Hobbie listed three
reasons for the action, and
cited the decision of Rut

Southern Company cae Taf ; ren’ in
ve Senior Calvin Murphy some. just weren't interest "5 F ere eps
Thompson graduated from e i eer ; epere res gers University to provide
hn Cc Uu ‘ r i toured the Southeast as an ed, Already he has received rationale
J Davidson Phi Beta Kappa ; ; ? ale.

school preferences and that

with an AB and received his Aida OF Ee aia ee: ere from ee sites ae He noted that effective-
cal MD from the Medical Col- partment this SUS! abi students STENILY'S fh te ness of the program would
7 e oe e loge of’ Virginia in 1938 attempt to inform black tions to visit the Campus. be -hampered_-without-sus-
New Literary itions While at Davidson he was in high school students of the “Considering what 1_was pension of classes and full
ODK and also played varsity opportunities available at a to do,” said pr ae faculty, administration and
Wie += Bata ia is Davidson. “the program was effec s ~ i
Lip cralien ee Westminster ve Poles ay “ vena bt ee cometgnttie of the Department of Médi- idea behind his program that some sort of follow low the ‘college to look at
ak Sa each ou ae sie ena cli ; Dunhan emphasized that cine of the Medical College was. to =eoueiit =these: stu ee eae aegoe Us the issue from ‘‘an unde-
into new forms and formats editors, but it will offer com: ~ the paper was not trying to apaied Jat Se ee een AU - es a pe ans EEG ' tached ewe and. Wak
in an expansion of its. liter pce ee ceavers genres alter format for the purpose Hemphill graduated from actively try to sell the aS ns rege ses dant “compassion, Hobbie said.
ary efforts. specializing in poetry ial of competition with the ‘‘Mis- Davidson with a BS and then school to them. ae tl) ee pastime As final reasoning, Hobbie
eiees : : ; : ae cellany,’’ Davidson's literary attended Wharton School of He found that in most Spencer has suggested that pointed to Rutgers President
Moving targely in TeEpAUSE ‘ Editor Bob Dunham said, magazine. He said the chan. Finance and Commerce. He cases, the students contact- those contacted be placed Mason W.° Gross’ viewpoint
aaehe sears nate ne sued) cant alate ges were being made because Wass in Phi Beta Kappa, ed knew little about David- ws Sree ae le of what the community of
caibmoltsiden appraisalssathe incnaastig the mecthetic arith they were “a good area of ODK, Scabbard and Blade, son other than pices ae that = s See ee ce ie the college should be. He
paper-will soon avail itself ty of the paper, a step which improvement for the paper.’ and the D” Club while at it fields a basketball team. ee ! te oh quoted Gross’ — statement
as a new literary outlet, in has bes igeded for” some ght tO it aati: Davidson. Hemphill also Most of those contacted ex ne es ne fe) he ghlig ts that Rutgers ‘should’ go be-
addition to its role as ‘‘news time.”’ : HUNGRY d worked on the business staff hibited extreme interest in a Ee ee pers yond. protest to a critical
and editorial voice.” Dunham ‘said that other The electronic folk a 7s eeberieage a>! ane Per aean ae ae oH ii ba lonttata ak oe Exena On ot the Basle i
The new appearance will changes in fisreat are being sound of Rings ‘n’ Things served aS ce president of what y had to offer,”’ saic vee ake ae i ine sués facing the nation.’
be established in several considered but did not spec- can still be heard at 4 hig “Senior te ass. Sats : ish o Sine : hn ian on ee nether eh idents Gross called for Rutgers
areas, with the expansion be- ify any particular altera - the Union Coffeehouse. Now he is secretary trea- Calvin contacted about ome Sepa be er . to “positively and dramati-
ginning in the next few is- Ranged © The Canadian group © surer of Century Furniture fifty black students, and on his list, a certain Marion
sues. An increase invarticles and
One of the ‘first additions reviews submitted by facul.
will be a literary column, to ty members, more in-depth
be compiled and directed by feature articles and more at-

cally demonstrate the role of
the university as teacher,
as guardian of civilized va-

will present shows at # Company. In 1967-48 he sery- estimates that half of those Harris—who turned out to be
% 8 and 9:15 both Friday i ed as president of David- will apply to Davidson. He a girl. Needless .to say,
? and Saturday nights. i son's National ‘Alumni Asso- justified this estimaté by ex- Marion did not receive an

4 ciation, ; j plaining that one of those admission brochure. (See MORATORIUM, Pg. 8)
D nema arrmemaenomas¢IetS :
