ike Davidsonian

Report

October 10,1969 Page Three

The Richardson Fellows Program

By JOHN MCLEAN
Managing Editor

The search for The Unusual Man. This
is the avowed purpose of Davidson’s
Richardson Fellows Program, which is
now beginning to recruit freshmen under
the direction of a new director, Dr. R.
Bruce Jackson Jr.

The Smith Richardson Foundation of
Greensboro, N. C. grants to the David-
son program $20,000 each year. This
money is used to seek out and develop
those students who, in the words of past
director Dr. W. G. McGavock, “have po-
tential for leadership and who are anx-
ious to develop that potential.”

“Whe program is also an experiment in
psychology for the top brass of the Rich-
ardson Foundation. Dr. James Farr and
,a staff of psychologists have fashioned
the program as an experiment to perfect
methods of recognizing leadership in men
at an early age.

But what, exactly, does the Foundation
look for? There are certain. built-in dif
ficulties in answering this question be-
cause while the program looks for lead-
ers «it is at the same. time searching for
a meaning of leadership.

But at any rate, the Davidson program,
brought out of chaos in late 1967 by. Dr.
McGavock, spends its $20,000 in search
of a promising group. The selection is
quite complicated and time-consuming.

The steps are as follows; (1) hall dis-
cussions acquaint freshmen with the pro-
gram, (2) freshmen submit applications
to an advisory panel of faculty and Fel-

With two years’ experience,
/ anew director and $20,000°***.
_ in the bank, the search for

‘The Unusual Man’ goes on.

lows, (3) applicants are interviewed by
faculty advisors and Fellows, (4) finalists
are selected on the basis of the inter-
views, and finally (5) Fellows are select-
ed after a weekend retreat to Montreat,
N. C.

Yet this selection process is itself un
der review. A recent outside study con-
ducted by the Richardson Foundation re
vealed certain inadequacies in the ac-
ceptance, or rather rejection, procedure.

Changes. are.planned whereby feelings of

rejection in those who are passed over
can be cushioned.

There is no reason why an applicant
who is not selected should have feelings
of rejection, say both McGavock and Jack-
son. Both emphasized that everyone—and
especially those who reach the stage of
“finalists” -— are just as well qualified
to be Fellows.

But the necessary limitations on the
size of the group dictate that arbitrary
selections sometimes be made.

Then too, the program seeks a diver-

BURNEY TAKES PSYCHOLOGY OFF THE COUCH

Sophomore Fellow Cecil Burney’s summer in-
ternship took him to clinical psychology, wards and
mental health centers in Corpus Christi, Texas.

His work entailed intelligence testing, personal

‘No, It’s Not $30 An Hour, But...’

“You might say that I spent this sum-
mer learning how to become a good lis-
tener. Listening deeply and attentively
to others is a difficuit skill to learn.

“But I feel that the acquisition of this if
skill is vital +o the future security of all |
of us, for listening is an important part/

of good communication, and good com:
munication is essential if we are to sur-
oa rds used by soph

were the words used by soph-
pie: Cecil Burney to describe his work
in clinical psychology, what was for him
mainly a coming to terms with the
problems of others and his own feel-
ings toward other people.

Burney worked this summer under the
supervision and with the guidance of
mental health professionals in Corpus
Christi, Texas. “My Richardson Fellows
internship there provided an opportunity
for me to gain some specific imsight in-
to the work of clinical psychology, a ca-
reer which I have been considering for
several years,” Burney said, “and gen-
eral insight into other aspects of behav-
ioral science.” :

The bulk of his work was spent in
administering psychological tests, learn-

© ing how to evaluate testing -results, writ:
ing reports, learning how to counsel pat-
jents by observation and some actual
work with them on an individual basis
nd in groups. ;
On a ieenet level, Burney also obser-
ved sensitivity training groups, assisted
in psychological research, and surveyed
community-wide efforts in mentalyhealth
by visiting several agencies in the Cor-
pus Christi area. : =|

Burney was associated with Dr. Rich-
ard B. Austin Jr., a local clinical psy-

chologist. “He spent much of his valuab-
je time sharing his professional insights
with me and listening to some of my
newly-found insights,’ Burney reported.
“I spent most of my time in his office
observing the practice>of a clinical psy-
chologist, and I especially learned much
about dealing with children who have
learning difficulties from him and from
the other members of his staff.”

One of Burney’s most interesting ex-
periences was being allowed to observe
a six-week institute on Mexican-Amer-
ican children in the public school system,
held on the campus of the University of
Corpus Christi for about thirty elementary
and junior high school principals and
teachers and college professors.

This institute is contributing to a psy-
chological understanding of the cross-
cultural differences and similarities be-
tween people in South Texas and, by /ex-
tension, the world.

Burney also began research with Aus-
tin this summer which will be published
fairly soon in professional psychological
journals.

“I feel that I gained valuable exper-
ience and insights which will help me
to make a more rational career choice,
and, more important, I feel strengthened
as a person by the confidentiality, re-
sponsibility, and positive regard which
my employers have showed me.”

“This work in psychology has made
me ‘feel that I am more aware of others
around me, that I feel more sensitive to
the needs of others, and am more cogni-

zant of the effects which my actions can -

have on them.”

“I feel that I have become more ac-
cepting of others because of this sum-

sity in those finally selected as Fellows.

Certainly the most glamorous — and
costly — of. the, program’s features is
the summer internship system, highlight-
ed in the other articles on this page. The
trick in the internships is that it is eas-
ier for an employer to hire students who
will be paid by the Richardson Foundation
rather than himself, obviously.

The usual stipend is $800 per summer,
though the sum may be higher if extra-
ordinary expenses are incurred by the
Fellow, in living away..from home, or the
like.

But there are indications that the
supply is running lower than it has in
past years and fewer internships may be
subsidized in the future. Not all of them
are backed by Richardson money at the
present time.

Most of the grant of $20,000 is spent
on internships, and the Davidson pro-
gram has complete discretion in allot-
ment of funds.

counseling, participating in encounter groups, and
work with those dependent on psychologically-ad-
dictive drugs. (Staff-photo by Davidson.)

mer experience. Such an experience was
significant for me.as.a person, and I am
sure that the effects of this summer will
remain with me in a positive way for the
rest of my life.”

THE MIDAS TOUCH

The Midas Touch of the Richardson Fel-
lows Program works its wonders as the key
to many various opportunities for the
Fellows. Summer internships have given
Davidson students an inside look at fields
as diverse as business, government, social
work, television production, banking and
clinical psychology. (Staff photo by Thomas.)

Clodfelter Joins Study
Of N.C. Slum Housing

Sophomore Richardson Fellow Danny
Clodfelter spent this summer preparing
a study for the Duke Power Company.
Although most studies subsidized by
Duke Power involve questions like ‘‘How
many miles of cable to lay between Char-
lotte and Greensboro?”’, this report was
different. :

Clodfelter’s job was to explore the
feasibility of Duke Power's moving into
the field of low income housing.

Most of his time was spent on field
trips’ back and forth between larger
cities in Piedmont North and South Car-
olina, the area which Duke Power serves.
Contacts were made with city officials,
federal. agencies, and private citizens’
groups. ;

“The most interesting interview of all,”
Clodfelter said, “‘was with an elderly
colored lady who has organized the whole
program of housing improvements in
Durham. There is a White supervisor,
but all the people who were working there
were Negro, and so she was the .vreal
link.”

“This lady was herself in poverty. Her
house had just two rooms: a bedroom
and her ‘organization room.’”’

The people Clodfelter worked with

ranged from this ‘home-grown reform-
er’ variety all the way, to the financial
magnates who control ‘North Carolina’s
banking economy.

Indeed, the whole purpose of. his sum-
mer’s work was to help these business-
men decide whether to undertake the
building of low cost housing. :

Clodfelter reports that the role of bus-
inessmen as businessmen is
with respect to the way they view their

Salyer Views Politics
As Washington Intern

John F. Kennedy once described Wash-
ington as a city “of Southern efficiency
and Northern charm.” But Steve Salyer
found it to) be an extremely rewarding
place to spend a summer of political ac-
tivity. And after two months in the front
lines of Washington’s political battle
grounds, he might agree with Kennedy
on the nature of the game of politics.

Salyer worked this summer as an in-
tern in the office of the Republican Con-
ference Research Committee of the U. S.
House of Representatives.

Research was being done in areas as
diverse as foreign affairs, urban prob-
lems, and agriculture. Specifically, Salyer
was assigned to do the homework for
a comprehensive national manpower ed-
ucation and training policy.

For part of the summer Salyer was
“loaned out” to the Office of Education
to work with a task force studying the
causes of student unrest on the campus-
es. He is still working on the long range
job — national manpower training »—
and will help draft statements to be used

by Congressional candidates in the 1970
elections. ,

Aside from these facets of their intern-
ship program, the Republican Conference
organized government seminars conduct-
ed by such men as John W. Gardner, di-
rector of the Urban Coalition, former U.
S. Ambassador Averell Harriman, Ralph
Nadar; Dean Rusk, and Barry Goldwater
— to name a few.

Also in the works were meetings with
Cabinet officers, Bureau heads, etc.
“Perhaps the most outstanding of these,”
Salyer continued, “was the trip to the
Housing an Urban Development offices
where we met with Secretary George
Romney. The discussion there centered
around domestic housing and. population
growth needs.”

“Just the chance to live in Washington
was a great one,” Salyer said. “The night
spots, the museums, galleries and con-
certs were lots of fun. Hot days, the dull
as well as the delightful people all com-
bined to make this internship a fantas-
tic) experienee.”

changing |

responsibilities to the local community.
“Businessmen must be seen in the ‘con-
text of something other than a profit-
motivated system,” he says.

“Most corporations are coming to re-
cognize that their futures depend on the
futures of the people in their communi-
ties. So they: begin to fee] some sense of
abstract corporate responsibility to the
community somewhat like the obligations
a private citizen feels toward the whole
community.

The failure to provide decent housing,
says Clodfelter, is the cause of what
racial violence the state has seen. Then
too, efforts to remedy the situation are
being undercut by poor administration.

Clodfelter criticized most governmental
agencies and development commissions
in the state for, being “more interested
in publishing flashy brochures than in
helping solve the housing problem.”

Some, not all, are guilty, however.
Salisbury and Winston-Salem in particu-
lar have avoided this tendency.

Clodfelter also feels that federal agents
are more interested in their job security
than their effectiveness. The result is
that the most constructive efforts in
housing have come from private groups
and churches.

“In sum, the internship experience, at
least in my case, provides exposure of
the individual to highly motivated, gen-
erally successful (as defined by conven-
tional society) persons. They in» turn
provide a reference point for the Fellow
to evaluate himself, the society--which
produced those persons, and the direc-
tion in which he wishes to grow.”

* Fellows Roster

DICK ALLISON, Asst. to Manager, Peach.
tree Center

FRANKLIN ANDERSON, Social work

’ PAT BRAY, Hospital work +

; CECIL BURNEY, Clinical psychology e

GARY CASH, Aide to Richardson Preyer 4.

# DANNY CLODFELTER, Low cost hous- =
ing, Duke Power :

» RICH COWART, Aide to Cong. Riegle 5

% KEN CREWS, Aide to Gov. of Okla.

% GENE EARLY & JIM MAY, Emory ©
Univ. Study Tour

STEVE ENGSTROM, Aide to Allard =)

% Lowenstein 4

s GEORGE HANNEN, Rich. Fellows Prog. 4

7, GARY HENSCHEN, Hospital work

* ROB HOY, Counseling, Camp Grier ag

» JOE KILPATRICK & WHIT MORROW, -

3 Davidson Summer High School

ence REE:

_ BILL LINEAWEAVER, Family planning
- MARK MEZA, Legal Aid Agency Pa
~ GEORGE PENICK, Aide to N.C, Supt. ‘of. ©
2 Education

_. HOWARD ROMAGLI, Lockheed Aircraft
STEVE SALYER, GOP National Congress &
WELDON SCHENCK, Sea Pines Dey. t
JOE SMITH, West Virginia GOP
LESTER STRONG, Aide to Councilman
d Atkins, Boston

* JACK THOMAS, No Internship

DAVE TROXLER, Hospital work
JIMMY TRUSSELL, Family planning
JODY TURNER, Camp recreation dir. x
LAWRENCE WILKINSON, TV production ©

RRR

ES

LE

¥
;

AES I a

