COED WEEK DEADLINE

Midnight tonight is the deadline for |
students who want to sign up for coed
week. So far about 100 students have
signed up and at least 140 are needed.

FINANCIAL AID

The deadline for applications for finan-
cial aid for next year is May 1. The
forms may be picked up in the

. admissions office.

The Newspaper Of Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1969

NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Hi

(Staff Photo By Davidson)

BOWL TEAM PRACTICES FOR FIFTH
Lioyd prepares Davidson's team for their last contest.

Davidson Tops Skidmore 365-70:
Bowl Men To Face Dillard Sunday

By TOM DASHER
Staff Writer

ning the right to return for
a fifth and final appearance.
Sunday's opponent will be

Bow]
Team coach Charles E.
Lloyd said that the team did

Calls For Investiga

Student Life Committee
Cites ‘Juvenile’ Actions

Hazing,

on

Resolution Text

The following is the text of the resolution on
fraternity hazing adopted by the Student Life

’ = aa ; Committee:
By BOB DUNHAM which occurred during this The article in THE DA\ pare iiss ead s
Editor-in-Chief year’s Greek Week activitie IDSONIAN noted that the Code of Responsibility, i age 3: “Social Respon-

The Student Life Commit
tee lashed out this week. at

incidents of fraternity hazing

dent.

President Samuel R. Spen
cer Jr. and possibly Union
Director C. Shaw Smith will

four point resolution
cited the
Responsibility,” the
condemned

investigations in

In a
which section on
“Social
committee and
requested
to activities which it labelled
“unacceptable” and ‘‘repre
hensible.”

The action by the commit
tee came in response to an
article appearing in the April
11 DAVIDSONIAN, | which
noted a decline in the amount
of fraternity hazing this year
and described specific acts
of hazing in a number of the

IFC Judicial Board had ac
ted on only one hazing vio
lation during the week, since
only one had been specifical
ly reported.

Special mention was given
committee resolution
to the “pig party,’’ reported
ly. held by Sigma Alpha Ep
silon. The resolution labelled
the function ‘‘juvenile,’ and
expressed the committee's
opinion that “the reported
event displays reprehensible
behavior on the part of the
local chapter

in. the

sibility. Students are expected to develop social
skills and relations which are mutually benefi-
cial and which lead to personal maturity
“Social conduct is therefore to be based upon
concern for others and must conform to high

standards of courtesy and properiety
fraternities,

dence hall units,

. Resi-

and other social

organizations have a special. responsibility to
promote these standards of conduct.”

The Student Life Committee has taken note of
DAVIDSONIAN reports (April 11, 1969) regard-
ing instances of hazing during the recent Greek

1 Week. While acknowledging improvement over
past years, the committee feels strongly that this
is not a situation in which there is a tolerable
level of violation, but rather that. any instance
of hazing, in whatever form, is unacceptable.

Davidson's College Bowl Dillard University, the first not expect an easy win over Mm |
Team defeated Skidmore Col all-Negro University to ap Dilard and were neither over accompany the team this — fraternities Such activities as egg fights, mud fights, scav-
lege last Sunday 365-70 win pear on the G. E. College ly worried nor overly confi week The committee acknow e& enger hunts, and paddling have no place as

it ‘the tear. wins.: they ledged “improvement over tation P activities of college organizations, whether in-
will #eceive a: trophy and # past. years.” but stated stigated by “‘mutual consent between brothers
Ne Cy S h d I d aii diay ened a6 strongly ‘that “this (hazing) and pledges or not. This particular aspect of
Cw ‘Ourses  & e ee LC as the $19,500 which goes to is not a situation in which Debut fraternity life should stop immediately and en
; the school there is a tolerable level of tirely. : Se
: violation.” The committee requests that the Jurisdiction ;
Uses for the money hav ieaceniee tees i Committee investigate such instances as occurr- .
or ree J @ a erm as aes tie Cs Delayed ‘. ed this year in order to see whether there. is
; though. said he hopes that “sli a ie eS sia a evidence of infraction of the Code of Responsi-
nes eee = Sa ee FO) can. be ei gee ng igen pers Ac xaap bility which might call for disciplinary action
By GENE LINTON ce of individual student - ‘from this year's program added from other sources. to ee a eee fficien By ROBERT ELLIOTT against individuals or organizations.
Staff Writer ranwldstasd aii wear of the like Bridge. Automobile Mv the prize money, Then Reger ye HO , Sep eAnaNe | ik Staff Writer The committee requests that the student Sen-

The: Meee’ ‘Udiversiiy of program, Case looks for an “7 : and any page for scholarship fund of $20,000 0° os . si a pape! sicutiiean “allt dee Maas ate and the Committee on the Union, Frater-
1968-1969 has ‘been “‘a sucess — om — perigocsibh a pagel easy callin would be. available to need: os ms i asi a Bees = sh a scala sonal 8 Hg nities, and Clubs consult with the Interfraternity
ful first step to a new awak et Rep ont pw kan — students - _— - _ a ae : sue #8 Council regarding its effectiveness as a_ self-
ening’ in the educational pro tacit oat There will be some ‘chan Response to the ‘team ck aie dada he oe Stienpedt. said that next. Set ge cs Es EE
dase tn ald aesaeaie Scala, ne a ot ’ sseul ge n the Free U. for next success has been. good. Onc rrees Ssiniith at + ae tember would be. the’ ver: ¢ the “pig ie yaieore ‘teat ‘ i Cc : mee an
ace i Marshall Case - - — oe Se pees year, but these will be for New York resident who has i : _ gee Jerueeons kant ee of the a pig party ay portedly veld DY Sigma
semana so. ene '' selection of wines and foods), ‘egy spe ss co vhich might call for discipli earliest that the stati Alpha Epsilon fraternity. The Jurisdiction Com-
chairman of the Free Univer- ‘dindamnaatel Pieblens’. _ good of the peagiam watolae une peneaen a ary action would go into’ operation mittee may or may not find that the code is
—— ‘The Student Role in Chan a ees aay Fee es Pen Epes said that the com “We still have to send it so worded as clearly to prohibit such a juvenile

Emphasizing the importan-

ge’; as well as veterans

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

WASHINGTON MAKES POINT
Asks students to come where tie action is.

on Tells Students

By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

“You're going to have to
come. where the action is and
understand that we're no dif.
ferent,’ Leroy Washington
told a Davidson assembly

“why shouldn't all hell break
loose?"

“People ask if the move-
ment is a fad like the mini-
skirt,"’ Washington said with
a smile, ‘The spirit of the
black militants won't die;
we want a part and we're

he said. The commi'!
tee plans to look into all
phases of the program and

sake,

check for $100 to the college

because he. greatly admired

the team.

mittee, not being a -jurisdis
tional board; h

disciplinary

iad no specif:

action in

mind

our construction applicatior
receive the permit, send in. an

apiplication to test our equip

affair.

Whatever that committee’s view,

however, it

is our opinion. that this reported event displays

in , all possibilities through Team members have often — pyt added that the committee. Ment, and then send in the reprehensible behavior on the part of the local
a been stopped on the ‘streets was upset enough by the re final application for the chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and it is quite
questionaizes, and any con by people who recognize orts: ‘to .want lo nnien sure broadcasting permit,”’ said specifically condemned.

structive suggestions from them from the College Bow] that proper action was taken Stimpson.

anyone who is interested in
the Free University.

Case is interested in the
overall educational policy of
Davidson and sees the ex
perimentation being done
with the Free U. as an inte
gral part. Among other ideas
is a possible closer relation

Davidson has received an
application for a_ teaching
position from a man who
watched the competition.
SGA President Peter Hob
bie said that no definite plans
have been made to weicome
the team back Monday. He
hopes that a large student

when necessary.
The part of the
question cites certzin
dards of conduct which ‘fra
ternities have a special re
sponsibility to promote.’

code in
stan

The committee also — re
quested that the Senate and

the Committee on the Union,

Stimpson then said that the
Federai Communications
Commission would probably
give the station a temporars
license so the station would
not: have to wait until the
FCC makes the final evalua
tion of the application.

“At the most it would be
a 90 day delay before the

STEP Report
Calls For Action

with the Experiméntal Col Se —— Fraternities and Clubs con FCC okayed our construction By MARK HODGES mittee, Program and Com
lege, as well as_ possible be organized. sult with the Inter-fraternity permit,” Stimpson said. ‘‘It News Editor munity Relations Committee
academic credit for Free U. Small groups of students Council “regarding its ef would be a little less with the Youth Board: and Tuterial
classes. have greeted the team’s re fectiveness as a_.self-polic testing permit.” The Student Tutorial Ed Project

turn each previous week. ing body.” The station beard must ucation Program has made a The Executive Committee,

Although student attend

meet with President Samuel

prelimenary organization of

consisting of representatives

k
; § yhat dur- = eye oe ; :
—— off — = R. Spencer Jr. so they can its 1969 ae ~— we from the Program, and Com
ing “ — gs ne ewe oO n ~ get him to decide on a sta sia smgpens ee i ae _ munity Relations Committee.
Free University, ase saic tion site, a prerequisite to teraction with te Vavit ag Tutorial Project, and Youth
that the program is not in completing the construction and Cornelius communities. Board, will govern the ac

any jeopardy. It is finan
cially sound with the one-dol

Housing Squabble

application. ‘We hope to
meet with him within two or

In a statement of purpose,
the STEP organizational re
“What is needed

tivities of the © remaining
three areas of the program

lar fee and the Union Grant three weeks," said Stimp port said: . The Program and Commun
under which it operates. By JULE YOUNG protests from residents in Son. : _— people > mee a ity Relations. Committee, ac
Case said he expects .an Staff Writer those dorms resulted in the The equipment would be definite committment to cording to the STEP organi

even better year in 1969-70.

Positive Militantism Best

ing ‘‘positive’’, excluded vio-
lence, Washington replied
that “‘you get upset and de-
cide to do something about
it.”’

Violence and shock techni-
ques may sometimes be the
most effective methods, ac-

East and Cannon. dormi
itories will be utilized in
housing the girls from Ran
dolph-Macon during the week
of May 5-11, according to Jon
Jewett.

The chairman of the SGA
Coed Week Committee also
said that today is the dead
line for signing up for the
exchange with Randolph-Ma.-
con.

Jewett circulated a ballot
polling residents of East and
Cannon on their willingness
to move from their rooms.

“Close to 90 per cent of
the residents have said that
they are willing to go, and a
large part of the other 10 per-

consideration of other alter
natives.

Jewett noted that the resi
dents of East and Cannon
may move into the rooms
of people who have gone to
Randolph-Macon and _ that
they may possibly have ac-
cess to their rooms from 10
12 each morning and 7:30-12

(See COED, Page 6)

SERRA RIS, OSS RR ERE

4

tested in the summer. “‘If
the FCC returns all the per
mits within time for testing
before the school starts, the
station will be on the air
this fall,’ he said.

The college has agreed to
provide the station with a
$1500 budget for operating
expenses, but money is still
needed for the initial costs
of equipment and soundproof-
ing.

STEP at the beginning of the
year and this can only be
done if we can present the
new member with a definite
opportunity for action: pre
ferably an already planned
program in which he can
immediately begin to assume
a meaningful role.”

In .the spirit of this reso-
lution, the STEP report divid-
ed the organization into four
committees: Executive Com-

zational report “‘will be re
sponsible for keeping in con
tact with the community by
attending PADA Community
Relations Council meetings
in order that STEP programs
will be more closely tailor
ed to the needs and prefer-
ences of the community."
The report expressed the
hope that with STEP’s great
er interaction in the com-
munity would take a greater
role in organizing and im-
plementing its own programs. ,

Several possible areas of
interest mentioned in the
STEP report for this com-
mittee to pursue are new
free university courses, plac-
ing Davidson students in sum-
mer anti-poverty programs
and educating the white com-

Thursday. t
shington only Ne- pa slg *" cording to Washington. cent have said that they ce munity about the problems
on the semna cam- Washington admitted that nek week te ti ON Coed = Week = fart— of poverty.

staff and just-elected
nt of the District of

‘only a small step” towards

this “sounds very negative”
but added quoting from the
Declaration of Independence,
that the situation is “just
like’’ that before the Ameri-

would otherwise collapse,”
Jewett said.

We are not trying to over-
power or to coerce anyone,”
he said. ‘I only hope that
some of the people will be

B. C.

Sreeviog ie next week's issue,

Fi

eature Coming

VIDSONIAN Report will look at “the

The Youth Board of STEP
will give high priority to the
organization of a summer
employment service for local
youths. Attempts will also
be made to set up a Teen

lity, because: “‘the fruits can Revolution. did, however: advocate ‘hav willing to: give a little for |) THE DAVIDSONIAN will story,”

" present the story behind the ,' the humorous Canteen d_ discussion
progress are not distri Pigg pwd ge vet on im * pr oclligesrmaed er the majority of the group. popular comic strip “B.C.” by Johnny ins and outs of publishing a weekly groups an Pas high
ited evenly. ; iotnam : — — Anyone who read the letter Hart. college newspaper. schools. Because a recreation

democracy they try to pro-. help black students.
such incidents as ation to East and Cannon cannot ie gl Past editors and staffers will re- program has already been
he use of fire hoses and  ‘2ct 's not even extended ‘White liberals have helped, call it an ultimatum.” Pll ago features will ee orn; view their work and evaluate and started in Davidson and Cor-
: ii oo ee said but added Originally the Coed Week a veamtieens ans ital 4. criticize THE DAVIDSONIAN itself nelius, the Youth Board's in-
the assasinations of ‘N#'0" **K#<. that their role should be had planned to house the jj Page ® — as they examine its role on campus | volvement may be to supply
‘King and Me-1- Asked if his comments “supportive” rather than girls in Richardson and Lit- Also in next week's issue, the DA- and with the alumni. additional volunteers. for

