‘ The Bavidsaniar November 14, 1969 Page Five

Booters In Championship Game,
Face Colonia Is F or League Title

By A. W. TURNER JR, fensive st Davidson defe rked by Rodolfo out the match, and Bill Hor-
Asst. Sports Editor coach Hare men da Hernandez, the goalie from ton is suffering from a_pull
bnay! ! Vildeats ‘ Ur y. has been extreme ed sroin muscle
With its “sights set on a earls we a load ] g Patterson and
Southern Conference cham- late in the me he have ee er ~ ; er were on the benctreduring
nae ) Javidson. sd as 2 Phe. Colonidts have played ~ :
pionship, the Davic hen nN : . PaCS PAT thy Wilde las Z
t ‘ ! redule than t
cer teant .\ today r ' d e ; ; ea game At
Rict d ind. tomo! j : ; t r th ec on
wis ¢ 2 with Cie ( 1 ’ dy se ‘od
: ee rh have | wh £
T i ly ) ' | d 1-0. to Pem & \t half
a m Ss t d George vn b he A) ie e ‘Ca
(Staff Photos by Thonias) \V i ¢ i ore ( » Ame vo .quic ils a €
VERY TRICKY, DICK could e thir !
Dick LeVan dribbles toward Ed Galloway in soccer practice.
@ @ } F 9 ey :
Surprising SPE’s Beat Pikas Sena a ee
} a J e: y n . ‘we can. win’ ’ ° t x
a j ; OUn ‘ Het championsh'p
t een stra ! ( n the bh i I e can \
but our offen HKitb 3 te;
‘ fen ; ) 35, ta” ve ) 0 1 s Co Hn
By BILL BERRY Maxwell and Rick Stans nd Bu Tarver in 177 the Sigs did noe Sh) u welled ag Coach For ’ : ke g as we 5
Asst. Sports Editor bury grabbed thirds in 150 The Pikas scored four first Pikas and Si let in Suny : 4 White had hoped. W Y eve eT CRANET we i b n the. last
ri t wk } r of- foreign ver } Ves eo Watstt
. ; and 134 respectively. The plac good for ten points head-on compet 1 ths Ms : ues a Uric OU taTe a BBY ers) he S I t veep los
ting ish t Bh ; 1 149 } litth vious nd th 4 yrev t Ington WOngghe Southern Cor : :
In_an exciting finisl ; us Sig Ep’s fourth place finish cach in reaching their total finals of the id 14 rad litt ae = y they | Naver not “adapted { ; Th pionship t 1
Sip ‘Sps edged! the: Fikas, ers were Gary Sigmon in 158 Greg Anderson in 134, Pat lb, classes, The Pikas were Penal to “each: others’: play. Gen iy Delran crane $s - yj
56-55, for the team  intra- : Bray in 142, Ken Dixon. in able to win both, as Greg The KAS were the fourth eral té@mwork is lacking.’ feating The Citade «| If -the-game ds ir ¢
mural wrestling champion 158 < 4 ; SORTARKANE MAY i ted’ Billy plac team with 39 points The top scorer for George Davidson not going to the normal two overtime
58, and Ray Swetenberg in Anderson defeated Bi \ y
ship Wednesday night. The * OVERALL .JMAC 190 -—-all-—.won first! place Mohr in 134 and ‘Tate .Hol They ,scored mainly on the Washington is Mario Cruz be in good physical shape periag vill be played. If
Sa iee aa ncipaes ee ec ee STANDINGS honors. No other team had brook had 4g default to Pat basis of Jack Trotter's win The —Brazilian® has “scored oa ae BAL ste sea ee ec game cielo dais
depth, as they managed not ’ more than one first place Bray in 142 because of a over Sig Ep Paul Peteet in seven goals despite being Patterson is definitely out of the, extra five minute
a single first place. But they Pikas 361 winner rib injury. the 126-1b class. They also only 53° and 165 pounds the game. Johnny Bruner periods, the two teams will
iio atastiee rah erated ap i aaa pal lightl behind The Sigs’ last hope to win got Second places from Joe .. Cruz, who started the sea will very probably be sitting be declared co-champions
i ' re ghtly » » Sigs’ last hope tc . ;
thirds, and fourths to reach Sigs 297 Trailing s cot Y rade oto sh Ae ahindd Carr in heavyweight and
ds, tat p ms eae cas came > ‘name sas douse : F on :
their 56 point total. Delts 285 the Sig Eps anc Pikas came the te igh Lip ie Lowdermilk in 177, ¢ :
. P F rs » re. » 150-lb. c 5. S.tin- : 9 t
KA's 275 the Kappa Sigs, . the: pre in the aie a In fifth place were> the .
» Seven of the nine men the SAE’s 15 tourney favorites, With 50 dependent Bill Shutt  de- Stunna Aiba swith <7 SAKE l em en n eason
7 9 Z rn 2 . € . : " é C Ss
Sig Eps entered placed Gamms 212 points. The Sigs had four cisioned Jimmy Hinshaw. SIAV6 Havic wa : Me i . 9
R zs are s ayes was a winner
somewhere, as they manag- Nu’‘s 210 men in the finals of their The other two Pika win- for the Nus in thi 167-Ib 4 e fy Y
: A Bikers ; is Nus > 167-Ib. di-
ed three’seconds, two thirds, ATO’s 190 weight classes, but only ners, Dixon and Swetenberg, vision as he crunched. Sig F A ad N L ear
and two fourths. Coterie 188 Dave Traxler-was able to won over Sigma Nu _ Dick Bi Youkey. Dick ay ah - AL Owad Ho, 6;
ini ' : “3 ; : "i - ys *k Morriso
The second place finishers Betas .. 133 win his match. The Sigs Morrison and Sig Ep Kent | took—a—Second- in-the—1$8-1b
ere ; ra x .¥ 7 ne pee ‘tive ix 's a secone Ce 0 ¢ . ~ °F)
were Paul Peteet in the 126- Indies sitio 131 needed first places‘ to win, Rhodes respectively. Dixon's lage By BILLY COBB The ‘Cats lose only cap of the season, The Wildcats
Ib. class, Bill Youkey in 167, Pi Kapps .... 75 as did the Pikas, but the victory, 5-1 was one of the aa ee ae Sports Writer tain ‘Stagg Newman and also. Aid. wellc inate cetate
and Kent Rhodes in 190. Tom Pikas won. those firsts and closest of the evening. Su. other teams in order Puatettrnie tall and “have meet on Nov. 9 where: they.
of finish were the Indepen Coach Heath Whittle's ) 3
eon # 7 ’ . several promising lettermen finished in 11th place out of
S dents with 18 points the Wildeat ended their = 1969 ‘ . ,
Ei Bet th 16. "ty SAK But ; ii returning, Sophomore How 17 competitors while battl
etas with , 1e eS campaign by tinishing: a dis
i ; ‘ ard Boyd was probably the ing with subsidized team
f with 14, the Phi Delts and appointing last place in- the = Buhne a 8 ; x t} i pee ;
fe 17)" ‘ nost improved runne iis
ATO!s. With..13, the - Phi conference meet as the Wil ; ni . i-to-the-third Washington and Lee
. ar and movec la ne “
i Gamms with-H and the Pi ham and Mary Indians con ee - tl B : ing added to Davidson
i : a on ye team
i Kapps and Coterie with 0 tinued. their domination — of chedulo next ve nt
The only winner not men Southern Conference — cross ording to Whittle, Boyd as William d Mar 10
tioned thus far is Greg Gan country last ‘Monday by cap d even run last season With their strong fre n
ce n heavyweight. It wa ring their fourth straight Two * freshmen d shotild be ever
1 strange victory a he team tith who did outstandit job ordit to Coact
j edged the KA's Carr, 4:2 The Wildeats were serious Ren Clark front Hendet TOwes Vhittle look 1
| It was strange be e Gan Iy hampered in the meet by ville and J6ée Shibie who y muc D
ct nly welsh ibor 0 Being without the services. of hail from LaGrange, Ga club ne ]
i énior John Puekett who hist
Oth ) 1 o !
The wrestling tournament hurt his. leg. (The ‘loss ad eta
re i
core enificantly tered Pucks \ a big factor in 1 Ao ArT ; ( 1
aa the overall IMAC. standin place fini Tor ne
: : )
TI i Delt ach Whittle hopes toim ; 1 banque
The Phi Delts, who held a see HODES Loa homore Bill Nayl |
lead fn the overall re prove pon th ve 1-(j i ; i He Sat
Iso en ) :
ords after flickerball seas record hext fall, but viewed IR Lot ; eel
‘ LOU
made a poor showing in } Caso important ; ia ic
wre and — slipped one TENE RUSSO { u a !
Foie : Davidson's hopes her il partici -
¥ & 1" | aatida if All tl bos inproved ter 1970 st ison di a aceane : i Be
: sks : BAT ie hey nelre tim n-each succeed Rob Hoy, a junio ile ji Queens in Chai
THE BATTLE OF THE BULGES bit GOUT HAMeAC HUE Tell nye mect and I am very en ing a, comebacl 4 also 7 At hit
Chip Durant of the SPE‘s works toward a decision over the Pi Kapps’ Zack Mobley. aah tHeciD ella: afiB: ‘i - thusiastic about next year return FRA eral He ae
) ne 1 a ICh ,
ball 7: y | We -really had too many Looking back on th ea ed toclenve ; aie
er 4 ! ve ACK ite ° . ’ ,
Te € 24 f prac aA se) meets cheduled thiS | fall on, Coach Whittle cited the interstate sand t} i i
Irst wi * surpris y , .
W ildeats Pre ari Hb oe Su (i (a Offence | ; i ee HERR and weren't able to practice close win over Wake Forest Queen ] {te
ly strong S 1
b to) NS og ong finish in the wrest as much as I had planned.” on Oct. 14 as the surprise noon
ing tournament .

By ‘Stacking’. The Basketball Deck

You'd
that
past

think that team
gone. 27-3- in
finishing
points away from the na-
tional NCAA playoffs and be-
ing among the leaders «in
scoring all year long would-
n't have many changes to
make in its offense. . partic-
uarly with the three leading

has its

season, two

scorers returning.
Yet the Davidson —hard-
court team has done just

that in an effort to produce
a scoring punch for the Wild-
unequalled by
else this year.

cats anyone

The newly devised ‘‘stack”
offense has been the subject
of many long practice
sions and blackboard
outs,;—and-—its~ full potential
may not be realized until
the regular season is already
underway.

But

Ses-
wark-

What is realized is

t}

this: theoretically the “stack”
will produce an_ offensive
that will work against any
zone, man-to-man, or press
defense something that no
college offense has ever been
able to successfully do be
fore.

The offense Is
simple

relatively
The point man brings
the ball down court, choosing
to go to either the left or
the right. As he approaches
the basket, the. other

Starters Unchosen

By Basketball Staff

By RUSS MERRITT
Sports Editor

It's still anybody's guess
as to who will win the re-
maining two starting posi-
tions for the Davidson bas-
ketball team, according to
the Wildcat coaches.

So far in practice sessions
started a month ago sever-
al players have been con-
Sidered as potential replace-
ments for last season's sen-
iors, Dave Moser and Wayne
Huckle.

Moser's position at the
point is particularly vital,
since it is the point that di-
rects the team's offense and
must completely understand
just how each play goes.
So far this year at least four
men have been experiment-
ed in the spot.

In place of Huckel will
probably be a taller man,
partially because of the new
*stack"’ offense and partially

because the Wildcats will be
counting on getting more
rebounds.

According to the coaching
staff, the first team varies
greatly from day to day.
The players trying for start-
ing positions have been play-
ing in spurts, inconsistently
looking great one practice
and poor the next.

To the coaches, this is in-
terpreted as both a good and
a bad sign. Since there is
trouble finding two players
that can stand out over the
others there is evidi that
the bench will th be
strong. But the ti
idly growing near W
first team must be chosen,
for the team to have confi-
dence in all five of its start-
ers, particularly the point
man.

But at least at the moment
Terry Holland is in a_ posi-
tion that many coaches dream

about, that of
many good men.

The Wildcats will be play-
ing many more players this
year than in past years, sim-
ply because: there will be
more people capable of play-
ing, according to the coach-
es. ‘‘We've got more ‘good
prospects this year than in
past years, and we'll play
everyone that deserves to
play. There will be no limit
on the number that we play.’

Among the players thaf
have been impressive is Jan
Postma. Postma,’ who was
a leading scorer on the un-
defeated Maloy-Kroll-Cook
freshman team ‘three years
ago, has been “‘coming on
Strong, looking great,’ and
may be one of the five start-
ers.

It is beginning to look as if
the skin teamhas died, and
the shirts reign supreme at
last.

having too

four

Gpley ers gather on’ either side

of the foul line.

On one side, the squad's
best one-on-one man, in this
case All-American Mike Ma
loy, aligns himself against
his opponent, while on the
other side the remaining
three prepare fo set picks,
passes, and fakes {o open
someone for a shot.

Here the potential for

plays ere unlimited. For in
stance, since Maloy has de

veloped a highly accurate

shot from around 15-20 feet,
it would be impossible for
the defense to leave him

alone outside. So if a taller
man were to be put on-him,
Maloy with his quickness
could simply maneuver in
for an easy shot. Or if a
quick man were to be as-
signed to cover Maloy, then
the high-scoring Wildcat
could simply out-jump_ his
adversary.

Of course, it takes a player
of Maloy’s ability to make
this aspect of the offense go.

Now, if Maloy were to be
double-teamed, then natur-
ally one of the three men on
the stacked side of the of-
fense would be able to easily
maneuver behind a screen
for an open shot. Or the three
could pick and roll toward
the goal, setting up an easy
lay-up. From here the pos-
sibilities are unlimited.

The offense is designed
primarily to accomodate the
three things that the Wild-
cats do best, including Ma-
loy's ability going man-to-
man, Cook's remarkably con-
sistent Hook shot, and Kroll’s
shooting eye from anywhere.

,,earns on charitable projects

In second overall
the Eps,
marily on the basis of their

place
now are Sig pri
wrestling performance

The Kappa Sigs moved in
to third, also because — of
thelt

The
be juggled again next
at the
Delts

and

wrestling finish

standings are sure to
week
The

strong

swimming meet
appear to be

could regain the over

all lead. The Kappa Sigs and |

Sig Eps
striking

within
should
the swim
Pikas

enough in

are also
distance,
well in
The
well
swimming to hold onto their
lead.

D Club Kicks Off
Members Drive

they do

ming meet will

try -to do

The Davidson “D" Club
will open its 1969-70 mem-
bership drive with a new

‘format for the organization
according to president Dave
Fisher.

Fisher said that the club
has decided to become a ser-
vice organization and spend
the money which the club

rather than the traditional
blankets for the senior mem-}
bers.
Projects which the club is}
considering taking up are
spons@ring Little League foot-
ball, donations to the day |
care center, and a trip for
an orphan group to a Da-
vidson basketball game.
The club will continue to
Sell refreshments at the home
basketball games but has
tentatively outlined several
other fund raising projects,
as well. Included in these are
selling Davidson pennants
and pictures of Wildcat bas-

|
|
|
|
|

ketball and football stars.

As new as tomorrow

with deep center vent.

A great idea for the
TANGERINE BOWL.

and as fine
as our Wildcat Footballers.
Hunter Haig Norfolk jacket is di-
stinctively up-dated, patch and flap
pockets, body: conforming lines and

This

Congratulations, Wildcats!

on your Conference Champion-
ship . . . your courage and
comeback is the greatest!

Come select an outstanding outfit
for the season and for the Bowl

game.

Clothing For The Pace
Setting Traditionalist

John Mpck & Son

MOORESVILLE

