- And The Vibes
Were Good...

I hope there were some serious sociologists in Washingfon last
weekend.:They would have had one o: the trippiest field trips that
a sociologist could have. Because the sub-culture had emerged in
one ‘of the biggest gatherings since Hitler's mass meeting in the late
thirties.

The police released a very conservative ‘figure of 250,000, but
it was closer to 500,000. (Ironically, there was one demonstrator for
every GI in Vietnam.)

These people were from all over the Eastern half of the country,
not just New York or Washington. ’

And ‘their culture was oozing. Their clothes, their ideas, their
aspirations, their humor, their sleeping habits, -their children, every-
thing except their houses—it was all there to be seen and recorded.
And, one of their ideals being not to record things, they didn’t stay
anywhere long enough to be studied or counted or typed or anything.

To estimate this crowd and their feelings, one had to go on in-
tuition, or virbrations. And the vibes were good... .

Oh, wow, man. This is the biggest congregation of pcople ever
anywhere except for D-Day and here we are right.in the middle of
it. 250,000. Half a million. | bet there’s a million people here and you
can just stand up and like | mean see ‘em all. It’s fantastic. It’s
unbelievable. It’s nothing less than the highest natural high | ever
had. Oh wow. .

You bet, Baby. And if that isn’t enougn, check those cats up
there on the dias:.There’s Dr. Benjamin Spock (‘Welcome brothers
in peace and my children all’) and Dick Gregory (Yeah, Spiro’s
so dumb | wouldn’t put it past him to make a crank call on. the
hot line’ ‘’). And there’s Leonard Bernstein (I represent that square
world of Classical Music, so | won't talk too long. | just want to tell
you that I’m with you all’) and Arlo Guthrie (“I was just thinking
that my Dad would really dig to be here; hell, I’m thinking he is
here. One of you children out there, one of the three year olds. . .
Maybe, maybe not”).

And. have you seen some of these signs. Some of them are really
good. Dirty? God. Look at that one over there: PULL OUT, -DICK.
Wow. | just went over to the Johnny-on-the-Spot and right there on
the wall some dude had written 'P for Peace.” Tough. And how
about the one we saw marching this morning, ‘Fighting for Peace
is like for Chastity.” You feel sorry for people carrying things like
“What if they gave a war and nobody came?” That was last year’s
sign.

But I tell you, it’s kind of a drag really. | mean, | dig to be here.
I. really do. But there’s so much crap floating around. All these cats
running around doing their own. little thing. Now, don’t get me
wrong. | think it’s really beautiful to do your own thing. That's not
it. But we’re all here for one big thing and that is Peace. So when
some fruity-wacko comes from the Gay Liberation League and gives
me some of his trash, then | just get turned off bigger than any-
thing.

Ales look at this ‘thing. The first paragraph says we ought to
get out of the war. Fair enough. That's a groove. Right on. But the
second paragraph is some crap about discrimination against homo-
sexuals in the army. And the third paragraph tells everybody to
be homophyles. | mean man he’s just jumping on a bandwagon.

And _ he’s not the only one. Like Mrs, King. New. Mrs. King is
a fine lady and | can see how she is really dedicated to her husband’s
cause and all, but she is here about proverty and civil rights and
that’t not the war. © ©

And ‘then there’s all these other cats runnin’ round. The Three
Sister’s Bridge people and the Black Panthers and the Crazies and
the Weatherman and all and man it’s like the whole thing is fall-
ing apart. ;

But there’s one thing you can’t forget. We're all here and we’re
all grooving on this thing together, and we're all peaceful and it's
just really good. Right on.

And that, pretty much, is how things were in Washington. It was
one hell of a demonstration, but exactly what it demonstrated is hard
to determine. Most of the crowd was middle-class white under twenty-
fives. There were few black or wrinkled faces. And although the main
theme was ‘‘Peace,’’ there were a lot of people who were there for
other causes... .

The most memorable thing about that. day was the mood that
prevailed. People were Cooperating, trying to help each other, being
nice. We were waiting for a bus that morning way up Massachusetts
‘Avenue When a man stopped his car and asked us (we were five) if
we were going to the march and would we like a-ride. Aitd not only
did he stop, but another car pulled up at the same titme-<dnd a lady
stuck her head out to ask if we needed any more room

And the MOBE (The Student Mobilization Committee) had the
whole thing running like a Rolex Oyster; there were student marshalls
all along the march route keeping things moving, encouraging the
cold ones and: the thed, and cooling the crazies. And= those few who
did throw some’ Stuff, well, like the man said, the only problem they
presented was separating bad manners from revolution

And’ Til tell you a funny thing that happened té me. Being in
MS Il I was a little hesitant about having my pieture taken. So when |
saw some straight-looking guy snapping shots of the crowd, I would
start acting like I was cold and pull my collar up-real high

Well, there was one guy I remember who was silting up on a
traffic light (Did you hear the one about the drunk who called his
friend and asked him 4o meet him at the corner of Walk and Don't
Walk”). And so the cat up there had a beard and was wearing jeans and
an army jacket, so [| didn’t worry about it.

Well, Sunday morning. I was reading the Post and. you guessed
it, right there on page sixteen :

Story by Sam Darby
Photos by Tom Robertson

The Bavidsanias nov. 21, 1969

Se

ZY
v4

“

a a

