WILDCATS
GO BOWLING

HOYT REVIEWS .-
COMMISSION REPORTS
(See Page Six)

Published Weekly By Davidson Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14,

LIX

1969 '

NUMBER EIGHT

| Sur prise Facul ty Seat
Abolishes Area Exams

‘our Dorms Hold

RESOLUTION TEXT

ng is the text of the faculty

?aper 7

e r S! followin motion on

risis drea exams which was passed at their meeting Tues-
das

@ That Area Examinations be discontinued immedi-

Averted ately:

A minor crisis in the pub-
lishing history of THE DA-
VIDSONIAN was headed off
this week when President
Samuel R. Spencer Jr. with-
drew his objections to the
Publication of an additional

That the whole question of requirements and evatt
ation of work beyond that required in courses be
remand@-to ‘a special committee appointed by the
President for study;

had been in-
into the curri-
culum in the academic year

1967-68 at the

course in the Area
but they may

a third course.

In a surprise move last
Tuesday the faculty abolish-
ed area exams from the Da-
vidson Cé&llege curriculum.

spring term,
elect to take

exams
[ } That at some date at least one year from November corporated
11, 1969, but not later than two years from this

date, this special committee make to the faculty suggestion of

In addition, a student who

‘ ; its recommendations growing out of this study; and ne ; the Blue Sky Committee :
16,000 copies of last week's The move came.in lieu of has passed only one exam TI - bd si
¢ . : . * yoy iv
paper @ That, in the meantime, Freshmen and Sophomores accepting a proposal from will be exempt from — the s-program was design al Vy en ouse
‘ . , . snsate ‘the re
shall take three courses per term (even in the the Educational Policy Com* third course only once, ed to compensate for the re eo 3

duction of the graduation re

The paper was devoted al- spring term), EXCEPT that a Freshman or Sopho- mittee which: had recom The required third term ca 3
most’entirely to the abridged more who has passed one or more Area Examina- mended a requirement of Course Will be w Tree elective quirements from 40° courses Three dorms are now hold not yet had a chance to ap-
reports of Spencer's - five tions shall bé exempt from: the requirement of Baasihg tik ee S eanid in and ai lla Bac haded: to Nie to 82.-The stated purpose of ing open house on a daily prove their action.
study commissions, appoint- three courses in the Spring term, being required * three vears graduation requirement the arencstudies. was 60:01 Saas auc Ae oor hoa Chang ; ¥
ed in the fall of 1968. to take at least two courses but being permitted pica ries! fe : fer a student an enlarged op only nominal approval from bs tetegabiriskth rh lind

tution this fall eliminated

Freshmen and Sophomores

THE DAVIDSONIAN had to take three if he so desires, A student who has The 52-51 faculty vote also portunity «for creative and the RHC before it can take former regulations. limiting
é hee! > > f:) . . “ : . ‘ *SUulLalLIons n
agreed to let the News Bu- passed. only one area examination shall be exempt Miust now take three courses set up a special committee imaginative exploration — of the action ( | sath
read sandoveencer ; ~ ; ; ' Possible open dorms to just
eau and spencer approve from the three-course requirement only once. The each term (including — the to study the whole concept new areas of study lar ; ; f best
the abridgments i isan f R : ; Residents of Belk. Duke SIX per, month.’ The mawi>

e abridgments in exchange courses a student is required to take under this spring term). Freshmen. or of course-requirements. «The upon his own initiative Tohttlers s zi mum permtssable | f

vz ¥ : Yr ite >free-ele i : ; at : +4 and Little derms have al- ‘ sable hours: for
for” assurance that the paper item shall be free electives and added to his. gradu Sophomores who have pass: committee will report some The aren ‘exams Were eet SUAd COREE EN cual open dorms were also. in

. > , > . . + 7 a . Wisse » e ~: athe by
would be mailed to the 16,- ation requirements. : ‘d oné or more area exams tine durint the 197172 aca ; ; passec le proposal aye
000 alumni % € arei i t ng the 1971-72 aci up to test tudent’s know to hold open dorms by the creased,
F i a : s
° srennerrenperaeatancaccongees are exe ‘d fro he thirc . > year, lve ur , ,
5 : : : are exempted from t demic yeal ledge in four broad” cate required two-thirds majority

Presently the maximum
hours allowed for open dorms

are Sunday-Thursday nights

gorie (1) Language, Lit

Art »)

Because of its displeasure

with the presehce of dn ed-

woe have received — official

et re and the dnetion from the RHC, Resi

Describes — «

Science ‘ we

Vietnam Imprisonment yn.

9 e
itorial, the administration de- e sion and Philosophy dents of Richardson dorm from noon to midnight and
‘ided + rem: ’ > , “ts ‘ ity
cided to remake the reports 2) Natural Science and have “passed a similar. ref Friday and Saturday night
ji ay é Pi é ughts
and seta them out _without Mathematics and (4) Social erendum but the RHC has from noon to 2 o.m =

the accompanying
This! did not
paper's

editorial
affect the
circulation -to

stu-
dents or regular subscribers,

: Wright Conduets

only through. the regular

ete a Ee ee By STEVE CROSS ocratic Republic of Vietnam, ment, The other two ‘had speak up course load, but alse through aN e
, Asst. Copy Editor and also tried to, write him served. roughly two years ‘h Al VUFtOn betel outside reading onvocation Here
“T sent a letter of protest “IT keep pictures of him through the — International each PAAR ORDER RIDALIONcclDecthie The™spring term) was re
to Dr. Spencer Friday night,” around the house; and show Red Cross Until recently, . said) Mr HUGE BE ROM Waa duced to two regular courses Davidson College's Tenth W ;
Dunham said, ‘after I heard them to Dabney’) says: Mrs She has sent him two Halyburton, the families of Wifes 1etlaneecto ‘hy Feely to encourage — independent Annual Sacred Music Convo as pian Solt_inssruments
of. his initial decision to ‘re- Marty Halyburton. “But Christmas packages, one of prisoners of war have kept mreeeniohe to the NOLL Viet tudy for the examination cation will begin tonight at NO bay :
make the reports. Consider- sometimes she* says, ‘Mom which was returned unopen quiet on prison tonditions hatnese dingnine Avery Passing alk, four examina Orovep iain in Love Audi- dare: ai Meus eiolen,
ing the agreement, I expres- my, I forgot what * Daddy ed. She ras received no mail because they feared repri aidnlp the aaltoi : a i} haan tions was required for en torium, and resume at 1 30 ed oF Music, has composed
sed my opinion that such. an looks like.’ ” from him als fia] ANimURitnecind A tata trance into thé junior class tomorrow afternoon “Searla 2 une oe ._Trahipet
action was both unnecessary Dabney is four and a half. “T have good reason to be But last May, she added, newspapers, u s tne ie Criticism of the program Wright, Director of Cha A ne satel RPS
and unfair. Her father, Davidson alum- lieve he has never heard when Secretary” of Defense Democratic ; Republic of #rew when the majority of Music and Teacher of ane sts Crean ; AML Robert
Monday morning Spencer nus Porter Halyburton, left from me,’ she said. Melvin Laird demanded the ietatet Loecantaraa cle hie Lhe Class of ‘72 failed to pass at Columbia, will be the abe PASTE Profes-
indicated to Dunham that he for Vietnam when she was She has also written two release of all) American Gefieva ‘Convention regula more than one of the ex #uest conductor ae ° so Ne pet)
had been unaware of the i0 days old. He is now a pri North Vietnamese delegates POWs, and condemned their tions regarding prisoners of aminations geen : pany eon me SUE PSG
binding agreement, and that soner of war in North Veit- at the Paris peace talk, treatment, the wives of pri- War ’ Several faculty members Both performances are ‘ The convocation will also
he had revoked his previous nam. Xuan Thuy and Xuan Onah, soners were encouraged to (See AREA, Page 6) free and open to all inter- include a variety of lectures
decision. He said that the Lieutanent Junior Grade but has received no help ested persons. and discussions in the field
Paper would be mailed to the Porter-Halyburtonm USN- fromthe m.—The United Choirs from Salem College of sacred music. ;
alumni as published. flew an F-4 Phantom jet in States Navy, however, has Y) > r ‘ and) Myers “Park  Presby: Searle Wright is national
The college Will bear the Paleslonerovaminedteeniiata asaighed ah officer lis EGE Duke | a et .- r B terian Church in Charlotte president of the “American
financial burden. of printing was, shot down in October her on contacting her hus S 2 I O v Ol : O ecome Will join the Davidson Col Guild of Organists and also
and mailing the additional 1965. Mrs. Halyburton was band. ' lege Male Chorus in singing teaches at the School of
copies. informed by the Navy that Asked’ about the charges . | 11] US SOO POUU CDE + Da tid nyt mise Seok ssulard
“The whole matter was an he had been killed. In of the International Red Dana Profe sor I all i erm LO WEY) OU ann EOD. COUGES lio rd ee be
unfortunate misunderstand: February 1967, his status Cross about prison condi : . Will be the organist. Also oni City.
ing,’ Dunham said. *‘Though- was changed by the Navy to tions in the North, she cited contributing will be = mem-
there was Certainly some Prisoner of War. three talks she had had with Dr. J. Harris Proctor, ‘Pro ing as a visiting professor is married and has three bers of the Davidson College
break down in administra- “This is’ a very | touchy POWs who were released fessor of Political Science at at) Tanzania University in on Wind Ensemble.
tive communication, I per- thing says (Mrs. Halybur They spoke of solitary con Duke University . and an Africa. At Duke he has been Hee has = (aiehb AREA GEA Friday night's. perfot
sonaily assume a great deal ton. “They're quite sure he’s finement and brutal punish Afriéa specialist, will be a member of the Undergrad Ratt Fstitute al re ir mancy is entitled “A Con
r) 1¢ blame. still alive, but they gave me ments. come ana -rofessor — of uate Faculty Council, the { a) wer see 5
no source for the informa The three released prison Politic = Hy ic eit i re next Student Contacts Caommittec ees LOD: American Uni a Ge Hd eases vie
pea Ante Nahar antaatee tion.” ui ers, all from the Navy, were [ i rding t Pr lent th ¢ University Religiou MAMIE riee ei Egypt. the ang Sa Hanes ess
: ber of persons: had begun ee ee Fed # oe teecteee y if alk a ( ora ie a: x den Ath arene | re University Collada in. Naine the Priest” heads the agen
rumors that Spencer had MATS aly wl on has been , i Moa Yor A Samuel R. Spencer Jt 1 y Ul Mitt ! Nib} Ieonuii ANH DIRE da, which includes Wright's
“censored” the paper, and he trying ever since to contact Frischmann, and Seaman es ee African Studiés,7 and chait (since 1958) own Spirit. Divine,’’ and
emphasized that “there was her husband. She has writ Heghdal. Matheny was re Proctor will be the th rd man of the Ad Hoc Commit Maxwell Davies’ “The Fader
ten to him-according to the leased in February — 1967 recipient of four planned tee to Develop Proposals for tle has done field research in-Heven
(See NEWSPAPER, Page 6) form prescribed by the Dem after four months imprison Dana professorships at the Black Studies Program in the West Indies, Egypt, After the concert there
: 3 < Bones which receive sup . Uganda, . Kenya, the Gam Wifl be a recepdion honoring
Stud ents Travel 4] O Capital pedts hut eco hh i St are eri bia, Senegal, Botswanna and Wright in’ the . Chambers
H , — 2 Lesotho, -“A— number — of his Janquet Hall,
: ae Dana Foundation on Afric : and ae We ; 7 professional writing have Tomorrow at 1:30 pe m ;
*s, and a-member of ‘the
Zi in Mareh For Peace TDeAn gee TOnu Johnston Beek of Haltor ai in South reported on that research o Vee ne hey pple WAT :
O Ol J a and I feel that Dr. Proctor Atlantic Quarterly. WAU A Rcelal 708 Organ - sacred music

will be a strong addition to

By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer
To demonstrate their Ccon-
attitude of the
Viet-
David

cern for the
United States in the
nam war

about 25
son students deft yesterdays
or leave today to participate
in the November Morator-
ium
Washington, D. C

Under the leadership of
student body president
Hobbie, the nt took

cars 1

and rallies in

marches

Peter

conting
private hhiked
to the nation’s

where they will stay: at- the
Old Presbyterian Mission
House in Alexanderia, \

trom

capital area

ginia, about five miles
the Capitol
Plans for the
include a’ “Death
which began .
6 p. m. at Arlington National
Cemetiry. The miérchers
have slanned! to march past

the Waite House and end at

moratorium
March’

yesterday, at

the Capito! building. About
43-45,000 marchers were eX-
pected to participate

The number of marchers
from each state | yposed

to be equal to the number
of war
state,
Vietnamese villa
ed in the wat
The march will | forty
hours. with each marcher
completing the for
walk in about two hours
This afternoon,
‘students plan to visit the of
fices of Congressmen to dis-

deaths

plus the n imber 0

groups of

cuss the issue with them.
At. 8 p. m., a memorial
worship service will be held
in Washington” Nattona t
Cathedral, speak
ers such as Dr. Eugene Car-
son __Blake, Coretta Scott
King, The ‘Rey Villiam
Sloane Coffin, Father Daniel
Bishop Paul
Moore, and Robert Moss
the ‘Mass
Washington for
and Total
Vietnam”
folicwing the

featuring

Berrigan,

Tomorrow,
March on
the Immediate
Withdrawal from
is planned,

same path as the Death
March. Assembly for the
mass march will begin at
9 a. m. on the Mall area

west, of the Capitol.
“March
memorial

At10 a.-m- the
Against Death”
Service will be held, follow
ed at 11 by the start of the
From 2-5 p. m. a
program, rally, and folk-
rock concert will be sponsor
Washington Mon-
ument grounds.

march.

ed on the

nothing is
Davidson

The
cheduled on the
campus ifSelf in observance

reason

of the Moraterium, accord-
ing to! Hobbie, is that “‘the
October 15. program was

ary suecessful, and we

shouldn't try to do the same
thing month last
month we had a program at
Davidson: this month itll be
at Washington; and _ next
month at home.”
“Students might

every

voluntar-

ily cut their classes if they
want,” he said.

“The only thing I think
we're after in the morator
ium plans,” commented
Hobbie, “is for the Presi
dent, with his commitment
to the ‘silent majority,’
to hear the voice of a very
large group of our society
opposing the war-—and_ 1
really doubt that this group

is a minority.’

WHY IS THIS MA

our faculty,’ Spencer said

“His general qualifications
are outstanding, and his
special competence in Africa
dimension jn

offers a new

71

he—said>—fhe
he has

our” progri

experience had in

black studic will also en
able him to contribute to
the development © of uch
tudies here

Proctor is currently sery

N SMILING?

Dana

include Dr. W
McGavock in mathe
matics and Dr. Chart 1D)

Ratliff in economic

Other
Davidson

professors at

liam G

Proetor—was—born—in— Hid

in Durham and graduated
umma- cum. laude from
Duke in 1948. He received
an M.A, from Fletcher
chool of. Law... and Di
plomacy in 1949 and a Pt

1). from Harvard in 1955. He

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. gives blood during this week/s blood drive.

Rusk’s Fraternity Brother
Leads Anti-Vietnam March

By BOB DUNHAM
Editor-In-Chief
\. fraternity

brother and

classmate of Dean Rusk, Da

vidson alumnus Stewart
Meachum has gained nation
al. prominence, but. in a
lightly different method
from that of his distinguish
ed contemporary.

Meachum will be in the
national spotlight this week-
end as ke directs the efforts
of the New

Committee in the march on

Mobilization

Washington.
the. mili-
tant organization to end the

The chairman of

Vietnam ‘war has appeared
on national television
throughout the week and will
personally lead. a number. of

the activities in Washington
night and tomorrow

The role of militant leader
one which seemed un

ely for Meachum, when he

in his student years at
davidson,

While here he was presi

ri of the Red and Black

quers, a member of the

y. a captain in the
Davidson ROTC
ibed as a quiet, un-

was an

assuming type, he

Inglish major, and also an

assistant in Bible from
Birmingham, Ala
Like Rusk, he was a men
ber of Kappa Alpha frat
nity
When he left

appeared to be following the

Davidson, he

path that a number of h
classmates took, that of th
ministry, as he” enrolled

Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond
divinity

1934
pastor of a

He received his

degree from Union in

and served as
3irmingham church for sey
eral years.
After that,
career became unusually

however, his

colorful
Quaker
and

He joined the
theology

school of soon

became active in the Amert

can Friends Service Com

mittee

Active in labor move
nts, he served for eight

years with the National La-
bor Relations Board in
Washington, as labor ad-
visor to the commander of
Giess

Korea

Occupation Forces .in
with the U._S.
Department of Labor.

From
in India

and

195i sto 1955 he was

with the Methodist

Be World Missic
nd ssociate SUC \
tt e of World
1 und Christian Lit

erat in New York.

It 957 he became active
th the Ameérican Friends
int ved as director of the
Labor Internatfonal Affairs
rogram for the committee.
! 159 he became sole di

rector of the international

affairs program of the For

Section of the

eign service
committee
role of
pacifist. move-
during the early ‘60's,
when he became Peace Edu-
cation Secretary.

He has published a num-
ber of

He assumed his
leading + the

ment

articles,
several forthe

including
“Christian
Century.”

He recently added the New
Mofiilization Committee to
End the War to his Quaker
activities, ‘andhas become
principal

current

the ~ committee's
spokesman in the
protests

This week the NMC advoc-
ated making the . weekend
rally an active protest, and
received official city permis-
Sion to wind the peace par-
ywough Washington.

