May 1, 1970 Page Three.

: : FIRST COURT SINGLES
_ David Ellison (Furman) vs. Graham Felton (East
Carolina)

Harry Cross (William "and Mary) vs. Phil Jones

Host ’Cat Netters F avored

er 2

(George Washington)

First seed: Ellison
SECOND COURT SINGLES

_ Gerald Applefield (Furman) vs. Bill Ransone (East

As SC Tourney Continues

» Carolina): > By DON PARMAN First court player Randy matches in vesterday’s play opening singles and each had

: Mark Abrons (George Washington) vs. David Sports Editor Jones met Ellison yesterday “The really important mateh lost only one player. Ellison

~ Weaver (Davidson) Pe Davidson “College was the ‘in the opening round. for us was Bobby Koury’s knocked off Jones while

: First da: W avidson College was: the match with Howard Hunt Koury returned the favor by

: seed: eaver heavy favorite for the South- In doubles the team of fromeBurhian-tuntwas Pure whipping Hunt Schwarie
THIRD COURT SINGLES ern Conference tennis cham- Weaver and Jones is rated ; He t

* Phil Gaillard (The Citadel) vs. John Ashman (VMI) *

pionship as the coaches gave

second while Dumansky and

man’s first court player last

was the only Colonial to de-

_ Ma George : year before a shoulder in- part.
& rk Geier ( Washington) vs. Bobby Koury - the Wildcats seven of the Koury at second and Can- sid ae Psa cats A F
~ (Davidson) hate , jury. That match will prob- Rast: Carolina -rode
i : nine first seeds. trell and Hi Lankenau . at ably mean three points to AG's ;
» First seed: Koury The only seeds which the third won the top seeds. dis Winker" re Grady’s upset to an early
Fs FOURTH COURT SINGLES < Wildcats failed to win were Davids Y t lear : ia atA Nal gs peters with
& Poot bie (The Citadel) vs. Mike Grady (East - the first court singles and the- fay ia an KG ai ei Fogleman also. pointed to st guint a era took
F arolina 3 avorite vy p-. $e . As- reper ee Apophehtn ‘i ‘ ee points while, both V
: first court doubles. Defend- InN HO inRetE, tha, Wild the Citadel-Furman match- <
s sets, e C : : nd Willie x é

2 tH tata cl ded had thes ae aah ing champion Furman receiv- cats" aa ‘finish with 23 Mes Ih we opening sound: 68 one. Richi oe ae aay

son) : ed the top seed at first court ae Gy aati definite bonuses for Davidson. slates Hoey ALY

First seed: Dumansky points, followed by Furman , team without a seed, failed

: FIFTH COURT SINGLES
Jim Cantrell (Davidson) vs. Alan Pregnall (Fur-

* man)

with David Ellison. George
Washington's first court doub:
les team of Phil Jones and
Mark Geier nabbed top seed

with 12 and George Washing-
ton with 11.

The action will resume to-

In yesterday’s opening sing-
les action the seeds proved
to be quite accurate as only

to score in the singles play.
The seeds proved just as
effective in the d es

Chad Drayton (The Citadel) vs. Jan Sickler ‘fete day ‘onthe. Davidson courts one favorite, VMI’s Bobby matches as the Wildcats
(George Washington) ee ; 5 Brown, the fourth seed at forged into a tie with GW
; The Wildcats demonstrat with the semi-finals for the fourth t, lost to Mik for the ‘

First seed: Cantrell ed their depth with first singles matches scheduled rea hag Mie crea , See bina ;

SIXTH COURT SINGLES Gadi Ik el tis courte tac. (OF Ab micananinacomumes | OCHS: aad air Case toe he

Johnny Harrison (Furman) vs. Kirk Jones (East bindcihe teeta Gahan at 2 p.m. The finals will be Despite the success of the ay SUVA SSS OED HN (Ra:

© Carelina) j Sagal’: WeINSEPRWE: IRC IR Bosal Recent semifinals. Furman’s first

Vic Kit (George Washington) vs. Jeff Chetwood David Weaver is the top singles beginning at 10 a.m. ake. ii Is ‘Ge ae GantiG. vee doubles: team was

(Davidson) ~ seed at second court, Bobby eda eteccat meen c ee calls. eo of Nebel de eliminated by The Citadel.
First seed: Chetwood Koury at third court, Jeff : Washington lost the first set . Two thatches went three sets, ,

| All singles matches are scheduled for 10 a.m.

Dumansky at fourth court.
Jim Cantrell at fifth and Jeff

Davidson coach Harry Fog

before steadying to elimi-

nate ECU's Bill Van Middles-

including Weaver and Jones’

~ All doubles matches are scheduled for 2 p.m. leman, who is serving as the ae a Sai 2-6, 6-4, 6-2 win over William CHECKING FOR WINNERS °
3 sa ears Chetwoodat sixth, complete = tournament manager as well, worth at third singles. East and Mary, i Tournament manager Harry Fogleman charts results.
— ad the Davidson singles seeds. pointed to several keg Carolina had another close
one go their way as Kirk l Y 3
e Jones won a three set match ( ; i St J
e : over his Richmond oppon O e Ss um e rn by}
Uu ta as S agg ent at sixth court. Y
, , :

mien me ome Warman And ECU Lead

In Early Football Practice

By BILLY COBB work in practice. along with a center who is" so made their presence fect lifetime record against of Champions or *the Mas falter on opening day to the éne-under DALI
Sports Writer Coach Fagg is planning to accurate with hiss long known, Andy Davis and Southern Conference opposi- ters, but this week's South isthoall BEY WeLe Un bean Si Nea ound
‘ és . ——p “ . " “ : = “ oa r . yey " 7 nti arize > > o
With ‘several practice ses hold. workouts four times a snaps. Carl Rizzo’ 4ook like they vans with a 5-7, u i pe ern Conference Boll tourna- able at) return to contention, marized the Te ae Der
sions already completed, week for the next five Several key playerS are can develop into excellent oN Richmond's Joe jier- ment had much ofthe at- First round play on’ the RY SA HU tha :
Coach. Dave — Fagg's first weeks. Phere will also be a missing from spring prac- receivers while» Bill Gar- a e mosphere and tension of a Bet Du avi: exueecunes pr aes Be act pi
é Fi agg’s f ; ; ony ey ; fie ‘ourse Si > one séventies 4 z :
edition of Wildcat football. full-fledged spring game on lice because of spring sports. rett is impressive at de Davidson, Furman and professional event. Held Se course saw only one high es hi bide
SaaVErRaIODR Sager to Tae: Sat., May 30 Speedster Rick Lyon, tackle fensive tackle’ and Bill George Washington each had Wednesday and Thursday at a at ee m. ae the a vee Aaa per ee a
ey > . : ¢ F . +355 . ey yee ; i . lus r C t mark. reshman usty and slow ay re >
fend the school’s first foot- “We do have some pro- Leonard Baugham, and de Nicklas at offensive center. five points at the end of the the plush Country Club. of Boyd set the pace with a round.’’ Asked about — his
: he ; i ait . OM RRRAY sh’ fensive back Rich Hawarah h é i : : é s
a CORB ap Sa poe itt Baars Use Ae ire on the track team and / FS five-over par 77. Doug Clark team’s chances for a come-
this fall: Fagg reports that commented Fagg, We ntinten! HHRMIe AW iIbabeon is | racksters att e } at 7 - had the second lowest score back in the s@vond and final
the spirit| and enthusiasm of desperately need to develop slaying SERRE Hel K é = - § for the team, an 82. round Scott. ‘feplied, ‘We
use aauae nae pen seat St good Bunt ae Abed ee In SaarRBtne 16 summar : The other members © of didn’t play as well as we
as is evident by their hard that George Hannen is fone, i } ‘ : uh C) 1 fal the aggregation -failed to can play, and I expect us
ize the general outlook of ‘ 2g » 4 ‘ :
the whole squad for next ou 1ern on < if ence : oes perform up to tWeir normal to pick up quite a few
season, Coach Fagg was talent sophomore Toby strokes next time Scott al
Gite ti point out defense By HOWARD BOYD year. Obviously, there are the dorm and not’ enough Dawson shot an 84, senior so commented that Boyd
will be the strong point with Sports Writer more factors entering into the out on the track. Guys come Danny White an 852 Ed played very well, and that
a veteran. unit, returning " The Davidson. track® team track picture than the ab out of the dorms to com Terry freshman Scott both Boyd and Clark could
Standouts on defense so far travels to Fort Eustis, Vir sence of scholarship runners, pete just in the meets. You Sheftall each turning in 86, possibly finish among the
in practice have been ris- ginia this weekend to close In an interview this week, can do this against podunk while ‘shman Bill Guer- top ‘ten leaders.
i Pleas ; hang » season with the John Puckett, Davidson's teams but not against South rant accumulated an 88. The standings, behind
ing seniors Jim Buchanan out the season , abet , fated Mi oh ; :
and Ricky Snipes at end Southern Conference meet senior half-mile ace, discuss ern Conference teams. Thee fives lowest individual Furman and East Carolina,
4 2 : 4 The Wildc: inclads ¢ od some of the problems scores comprised the tear saw surprising Citadel witt
Sean McCormack at tackle, The Wildcat thinclads com Gk ae Puckett MYT edo eam saw surprising Citadel with
and Nick Dumich in the sec pleted their dual meet slate with track at Davidson. 2 Fe ; rv total, leaving the ‘Cats with 402, George Washington 403,
pants here Monday with an 82-63 Puckett, who still holds the rage SA aut ae eae a total of 414 strokes. William and Mary 409, Da-
h  Seenval sophomores. who... victory over Western Garo: Charlotte high-school 880 rec- aro tos india peepler it This figure was well off  vidson and VMI deadlocked
Seerval sophomores lina. their third in six ord, was state champion in your event to work out with. the pace established ‘by. co Hod aCPM Real been oh 4
have been impressive are ‘ : both cross-country and ‘the There isn’t enough .good i seatiar Rte A AMO Vad trea
Pao n gd starts. rors ’ favorites Furman (393) and in last place with 419. The
Woody ‘Montgomery a Tommy Richardson led the half-mile in track. competition between team East Carolina (395). F sake came a
‘Robert Norris at lineback- ; os 7 ; ROTA Aid Tmambare shits oo se a 399). ur- teams were closely bunch-
ers and Terry Woodlief in win: Monday: Wis Chr ae apa dehidl tae area ° ‘ man’s , outstanding shot - ed and the chances of the
the secondary. Juniors Ken PONS, CER: firsts in ri NBS fe tay pena he This is a problem he feels maker David Strawn, who Wildcats gaining on the
Totherow and Chris Giles a ot and ie a aay Puget fin 1:56.4 in high could be remedied if the was last year's individual leaders were not complete-
: : . Swetenburg = picke \ 2 ‘ke @ 156.4 4 ey Pe Sa winner, appeared t Be eee
are expected to come around points and broke the 28-year- school; now, four years later, goles: woud make a Mule saben etal Ue d to bein ly erased.
in the next few dlays. old record in the high hur- his Davidson record is 1:56.5 more wall for the track
” i R : : OTE “Des ’ » lack
According to Coach Fagg. dles with a time of 14.6 sec “1s hard to maintain your yet ams de tM A wos |
the quarterback problem is onds. Steve Kirley won both desire unless you're forced o unds, some sort of re- |
being solved by junior Mark the shot and discus, and to (ie. with money),” Puc- LUE should be done. | THE LITTLE KITCHEN
Thompson who has perform- Jimmy Trussell lowered his kett said. ‘I, became tired of Some money should be al- |
ed well. He is being backed own school record in the in- track, but | felt obligated, lotted to give a little assist. |
up by sophomore Rick Kem termediate hurdles to 57 in @ way, to run dh 1 eee aay aN CO a FINE FOODS
merlin and freshman Scotty seconds flat. “T didn’t run year-rounc runners.
oy as RNG te National house Wil- cause é s any : |
Shipp, who have also shown sige PETRITIA RPO Be aaain ae oe i ae fede. Davidson will probably _| A ' ;
some promise in the early aheceda f ecincedn apt & ee Sea, finish last in the conference | cross from the Hospital
warfare Other _ offensive e odds-on favorite to a lot of academic pressure, track fal ana AGM BNC | ;
5 pars away with the conference : sour tiratoobliaation i ack meet, and many of | Mooresville, N. C.
stars have been juniors and your first o Veta e those who perfor brilliant-
i ; championship, with Furman, to the books, not track.” Fah po perform brillian
Mike Mikolayunas at full the Citadel, and East Caro- ental Seer Aa ly for opposing teams will
(Staff photo by Lyle) back, Jim Long at center, tin, providing the  stiffest apes se Serna ng be boys John, Puckett used
PRACTICING FOR A NEW YEAR and John Harper at tackle. competition. mala elon ae es 0 beat. But that was for
Ted Woods returns a punt in spring drills. Several freshmen have al- For Davidson it will be the hee , y ane Pray ak North Mecklenburg High. :
; e familiar struggle to escape ne - ea Me ses erie e Davidson track is .a com-
B last place. The unsubsidized ee the § nee ie Roe ey pletely different world. Ask | We
U an, I } e l en ce a S Wildcats simply do not have an i eke ah £ cen ag John Puckett; he'll tell you. |
enough firepower to do bat- ean among the student
: tle with the  scholarship- seh AE Ae |
O O backed talent of the other He pointed out that when WESTERN. AUTO | how
S a Uti SOn L S wo conference: schools. a school tik e~ Davidson} |
; However, lack of subsidi crushes a subsidized school Main St. | have
i zation, although clearly the like Western Carolina, that Davidson, "N. C. |
It has been said that pitch- one called by, Coach Tom a little unhappy with the most important, is not the indicates talent. But there Phone 892-1496 |
ing is 90% of the game of Stevens. With runners on team’s poor showing this only reason Davidson is out- fsetao muah Gbeite back di | bell botiom
baseball, and Wednesday af- first and third, a double year, but they are optimistic classed by ther conference ‘
ternoon two Wildcat hurlers steal was faked, confusing about the future. track teams. The Wildcat
bore this contention out. the pitcher and forcing a Frye says, ‘‘We're a real football team is also at a Gi i | Jeans
Rick Pipan and Mike Frye balk. young team. I know this is disadvantage financially to Ive om a ear |
were responsible for sixteen The Cats’ continued their a little old, but wait until other conference teams, yet And make Mother's Day last ead |
itt} i ‘ next year.” y i i Whit d BI
innings of scoreless ball, as non hitting. inte a seen y won the championship last Call or visit an FID florist today. And ] @ an ue
Davidson split a pair with sane meee = order a BisH ug Bouquet to arrive |
The Citadel, 1-0 and 0-1. of the gutty Frye, Rendezvpus in Charlotte at early. He'll send it across the street, | onl | 50
Pipan went all the way in Looking very Chaplinesque La Roma Ristoranti Or country. A special arrangement. y ®
in his oversized uniform, Frye For a very special mother. Yours
the fest game, galing Bs BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY “ :
second win in five decisions. | ™owed the Bulldogs down for WEST of ITA Usually auilable d
ile lik nine innings. But the hitters Spaghetti — L ine — Parmigiana -— Saleds % 1200 an
It looked ae oe c we just ~weren’t hitting, and — CHOICE STEAKS — :
Pipan’s sterling performance F ; i : =
- rye retired to right field I R | A h k f | { f
would go for naught, as the without a decision. oma | ec 0 a 0 0
Davidson batgswere, unusual It was left to Davis Beas |
ly silent. However, a balk 5 5- Ri C5 i | :
in the fifth brought in a ton to be tagged with the istoranti good looking :
lone run, and that was all loss, as he gave up a homer .
Bitaninaeded in the twelfth for the game’s Charlotte, N. C.
pg aS to deny only run. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Bivd. at Remount Rd. campus clothes
most of the credit for the Frye was pleased with the |
victory, highlighted by an er- team’s performance, despite b
rorless day in the field. “‘To- the loss. He cited the great | y amous rands
sot ea ew de suport own es. || TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT |
fensive game.” particularly two. sliding ‘ |
He was notably disappoint- catches by centerfielder Bill (Formerly Elk’s Restaurant) 6
ed with the team’s ineffective. Barnhill. a |
ness at the plate. ‘Lately, He also praised catcher : ¥ | j
we've been getting alrfost ten Harold Wilkerson. ‘‘Weird STEAKS & SEAFOOD
hits a game, but we just called a great game. My - | ohn Son ;
can’t turn them into runs. stuff wasn’t particularly over- West Wilson at 21 By-Pass |
A few key hits and our rec- powering, but he kept mixing = ———_ 9
ord would be reversed.” the pitches so well that they Mooresville, N. C. The FTD BighYs bouquet. ings
Davidson's game-winning were” always off balance.” *As on independent businessmen, each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices. * Mooresville
run came on.a freak play, Pipan and Frye were both : 3

ual as Jeff Dumansky
outdueled Sandy Sehwartz
of George Washington 11-9,
¥2-10 at fourth court and Jim
Cantrell maintained his per

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer,

It wasn't the Tournament

North Carolina in Pinehurst,

the

band of

competition
Davidson

excellent position for a. re-
peat performance as he
toured the’ layout with a 71,

saw the
Wildcats

