Page Four February 27, 1970

LENE IRE LTT NE

The Dauvidsonian

ETT

Leger sere
4 reco

} Black Enrollment
Up ‘n’ Coming

Picture Brighter.

Friday, February 27

By GEORGE KANEKLIDES

7:00 p.m. BasketbalJ Charlotte, Coliseum ‘ toward TECK Mung black: stu
Southern Conference Tournament Staff Writer dents. Allen is on work:
7.6 .° » st y in Bd issions -
7:58 p.n. Movie Morrison Room More applications for ad- sect a oe igs ee ied hss
“Sex and the Single Girl” mission have been received fice helping in the recruit-
Saturday, February 28 shin dat than: fORZ any: Veal ing of black students for Da-
mn fear é or ¢é f ear :
8:00 p.m. Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum its 1967 sé srainie. is vidson.
si > g acce 5
Southern Conference Tournament ‘ : y
jos 7 im rern Conferen Tournamen AGRINEANDEIITHCLOES: bhasAd He reported that there was
cnday, March inteeionssdph Wo Regence only a moderate increase in
March 2- March 20 Stowe Galleries : : : » 2 Rok. anpit
North Carolina Printmakers added that the admissions the number of black appli-
Né i i rintmake ; “e 3 is v y -ece
10:00 a.m. Movie: Morrison Room office is in good ‘position: to pecan! feta dR ade

“The
2:00 p.m. U

Inheritance”
. of South Carolina School

Blue Room

= “of Business Administration

enroll black

college

more qualified
students than — the

has in the past.

years. Allen has already re-
ceived 17 applications to
date and does not expect the

number to excee
Tuesday, March 3 Here is how the applica bycthe. a ie 5 wey
7:30 p.m. One-Act Play: Hodson Hall - "tions of the coming year March fae heat abe
“Lisa and David” compare with those of pre- vi : :
7:30 p.m. South Asia Studies Program: Chora! Room Mr. Regen believes that

“A Passage to India”

Wednesday, March 4

vious years. As of February
)

26, 1970, the Admissions Of-
fice received approximately

the college is in a good posi-
tion to enroll more qualified

2:58 p.m. Movie: Morrisct) Room 1078 applications from. pros- black students. Allen ex-
"Us. WJ > } of wy an #9 3 3 2 a j uy a j i > J

os Vali The Witch of Positar o pective students; as of plained that this is true due
3:00 p.m. “The State of the © Green Room February 26, 1969, 1023 ap- to the combined efforts
History Department Lecture Seater pnereeine of the Admissions Office,

Historical

2:58 p.m. Movie:

PLR Ag ala oe

Profession”

Morrison Room

plications were received; as

applications were received.

senior Calvin Murphy, fresh-

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

7:58 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room OF BEDEURCY 20) pivee, STM: APs man Reggie Kennedy, sopho- OF ENN. naa al Ua
“Vali. The Witch of Positano” plications were received;, as i. Still waiting for Godot.
Sabra i ali, The ( ositano of February 26, 1967, ° 1130 more Lester Strong, and ;
ursday, March 5 Ss Caregen himself,

EPC Observes Student

“Vali, The Witch of Positano” The drop in 1968 was due Murphy worked in the 4d
7:58 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room to an especially large high missions Office last summer
“Valif The Witeh of Positano” school senior population in and personally visited pros : . e
8:00 pan, Harold P. Ford Morrison Room 1967. pective black students in the fy ! :
U.S. Government:,, ‘Double Mr Regen attributed Carolinas and Virginia dur- Goa ls or A read Stu dies
Demonology: The Sourses of the rise in the number. of ing that time. Allen and

Sino-Soviet
Friday, March 6

Conflict”

applications .to the interest

Kennedy started working on

By KES WOODWARD

they felt some type of area

freshmen and sophomores, more subjective, and that

Vat ety ; ea ; stimulated nationally by the the same project in the fall Staff Writer studies program necessary. that all pragrams stress con- the present areas be chang-
arsity Wrestling: Williamsburg, Va. ; 5 of 1969. Min cehhine , rier ‘ ; ae “th: onc ‘ .
Southern Confer , An undefeated College Bowl Sophomoré’Senator Danny The focal point of oFrier- ceptual methods rather“thah ed in concept and scope to
s Ay ( erence Tournamen : F ~ zoe Lee $ : Brea: 3 ot COR : > pete . a : R : i a
8:00 p.m. Artist Series: TvecAvaditariuny team and_ the nationally: Allen said the increased Clodfelter’s critique. of the its sanae was his th i morization of data, \that aid the goal of conceptual
Gray and Léiseau “The World ranked basketball ,team of efforts) have not produced area studies plan and sopho- desire to devise a plan the evan be made study.
¢ of Anton Chelov! Davidson. He also pointed camparable results because more: Alan. Frierson’s alter which would’ have drawn | See unadsiaea duane sanieeriss tartan sonal
Saturday, March 7 out as a factor the increase of disadvantages (that the native area study plan were him to Davidson as a fresh- ¢
Varsity Wrestling: Williamsburg, Va. in the number of high school Admissions Office is at presented lo Acmeetihz OF min and one which he
I \
Southern Conference Tournament seniors. tempting to overcome. Da- ihe Bducational Policy Com would be interested in parti ;
Indoor Track: Lexington, Va. According to Bobby Allen, vidson has no+ black admis- mittee-on--February 23 cipating in once he arrived.
Southern Conference Tournament the Admissions Office is tak- sions officer, but. is trying DeAnePronts TBE OT eel In Frierson’s scheme each (Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
+ ae es Wi . ea : — ing an encouraging attitude to get one. This is the main femtone ot theameatingeby student would organize his
aie oe me" a x. “eo ay we wate ONES. ol » 3 e ; ;
obstacle to a rise in black own study. program within
: saying that thg purpose ; s
N C D 7. {t G e { S t enrollment at the moment. of the open meeting was edch of the four areas. He STEAKS & SEAFQOD
h e | | ’ ; ; would) be provided with a ‘
| e e I a 1e S Pp Another factor is the lack neither proposals nor argu- : 3 I £ d West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
of adequate manpower in ment by the EPC but a DIDI Cara Rey «210 cath Aree
; neers ‘ és ae ae and would record the pages .
is ae e the Admissions Office. A listening session for the EPC fam AC IpbRL Or sb6 ot x i Mooresville, N. C.
‘ ‘ , rhe é 25 hours o ‘
Youth Advisory Committee reserve sce gir remo tee ea reading ooh a
edged ree er area.
- identity problem that blacks dents.
5 “F 4 ; Frierson stressed that the car
© have here. Finally the Col- He also made Clear from oe (HOU Eioielianciseentl :
: Fi ; ote 25 : provision is entire
By JEFF ALLENDER tion,’ according to the ad. deep in any discussions this lege is faced with stiff com- the beginning that the f Rita ee ret
if wa! j i e i : are rary and very. tent-
Staff Writer- ministration order setting up weekend,’ Bob said. “We're petition from professional re EPC was proceeding from ation : FABULOUS DINING
With the announced in the committee. still just in .the formative cruiters representing Ivy the context of the faculty's : :

tent of making the Selective
Service more res-
ponsive to the needs of the
public, the North Carolina
Director of the Selective Sys

system

The western region has al-
ready held two local meet
ings in Charlotte, mainly for
organizational purpdses, and

the state committee as a

stages.”

League schools.

earlier action in saying that

. . » Queens Protests

After the reading the stu-
dent would be required to
write a research or reaction
paper having some relation
to the area.

International Cuisine

OPEN KITCHEN

hol ll t for the first Frierson stressed, as ad- 1318 W. Morehead
tem has set up @ Youth Ad- whole A a ee € Ae (Continued From Page 1) me that we should follow up mand. [ don’t think we are vantages of the plan, the |
visory Committee on the iit: SEV EM GM) Mil Els ; on it}~to get the maximum totally bound, as of old to fairness to those who are |
draft, with junior Bob Hag Selective Service headquart ulty committees,

gard as one of the leaders.
This Youth Advisory Com-

ers at Raleigh.
‘I doubt if we'll get very

“Six student coordinating
i
comnifttees have been cre-

benefit from the symposium.

In a rétated area, the Ed-

the destiny of a housewife.”
The question of changes in

poor at taking tests, the eli-
mination of the elements of

ey tees id. Th ucational Policy Committee the nafure of the Queens stu- fear, the encouragement of

mittee is part of a plan in Pe das Babe. Ey ne a is working ‘on a reform of dent brought a close concen- respect: for all ‘fields, and
ute wards, Pu ents, Stu- ini i ; Ais

all states by the national daniaskie=o Religious =-Lita; the exam system, so that we sus of opinion among those the provision for increased

Selective Service headquart-
ers to find out what young
men, who are the main ones

Graduate Study and Careers,
and Educational Policy and°

may have self-scheduled ex-
ams, eventually.
“We need to make the com-

in positions of responsibility:
The Queens girl is not what
she used to be.

writing ability in a manner
new to Davidson.

PIZZA

THE LITTLE KITCHEN

; ; : ; As in the EPC 2eti
Ope eae ing daar hava Curriculum. mittee structure more effec- The girls here now are facte a ek oe hae
; say about it, and where Through these committees, tive,” said Miss Breazeal. more forceful,” said Miss mi Aen i atone a re FINE FOODS
i say ie siansed ean our students can bring sug- “With sixteen committees, Carlock. “They are more will- ay odfelter presented. his :
ey K changes

be made.

The group has no real
jurisdictional power, but is
set up to ‘provide advice
and information to the State
Director concerning the

gestions for policy changes,
which may be sent onto the
relevant faculty committee
for futher consideration.
There are still a few bugs
in the system, but these are
accounted for by the fact

its hard to keep things run-
ning as smoothly as we would
like to, although committee
activity has not been totally
ineffective by any stretch of
the imagination. The coor-

ing to put their ideas across.
They are not so effected by
traditional rules and are con-
stantly questioning their val-
ue. In sum, there is a new
type of activism here.”

critique Of the action involv
ing area study.

He restressed his six cri
teria for the planning ° of
area: studies, suggesting that
the program apply only to

Across from the Hospital

Mooresville, N. C. is

dinate committees of students Miss Breazeal ;,concurred. oa —
views and attitudes of youth- 5 that it is relatively new. All and faculty would be more “In my three years at
ful members of the society sie in ‘all, the coordinate com- effective, for example, if Queens, the student body has,
toward the Selective Service HAGGARD mittee system is a definite they were united, rather than as a whole, become more
laws and their administra- ... for reform a improvement in our admin- seperate.” aware,” she said. ‘‘More and We know
istrative system.” Miss Breazeal also singled more, we realize that. our

The last year has seen a

; 3 e ; out a strengthened placement interests should stretch fur-
Coble W ants ) ote Righ ts number of changes which program as another goal’ of ther than the confines of || »
“0 widened the area of student student activity in the future. 1900 Selwyn Avenue. Our

On Admission Committee

The major business before
the Senate -Wednesday night
involved Student member
ship on the Admissions Com-
mittee.

ed that two non-voting sen-
ators~-he the
committee.

SGA President Ran Coble
suggested that the proposal

appointed te

responsibility in college life.
Dean Gebhardt singled out
the decision gfthe Residence
Student Council to allow qua-
lifying students (1 point ave-
rage) discretion in the num-
ber of weekends which each
can take as a change of

“Queens students are more
career conscious now,’” she
said. ‘But the present place-
ment system does not come
near to meeting this new de-

students are much more con-
cerned, with occurances in
the outside world than the
average Davidson gentlemen
might suspect.”

The Senate voted to with- be withdrawn in favor of cane fuatyeaninan a Enieaah ta - |

draw-an-earlier—propoesal_of -one—allowing the students a—change—in-the-rule—whieh | oe lat

the Senate Educational Pol- full privileges. made chapel attendance man- ee is zs

icy Committee which  con- The proposal will now be datory. Chapel is’ now  vol- <

cerned student representa- returned to the SGA Educa- untafy, this change having Located At ue

tion on the Admissions Com- tional Affairs Committee been helped along by the caer 5 :

mitte. where it will be reformulat first demonstration in Queens Baker's: Service Station Because
This proposal had suggest- ed. history. On

“acmanian mist.

Associate Editors:
JOHN FINE
RUSS’ MERRITT

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT |!

When asked about the rea-
son for the recent changes,
former SGA president Car-
lock said, ‘‘You would have

to give the credit to a change |

in attitude on the part of
both the student body and
its leaders.

The significant gains which

Highway 115
Between Cornelius and Huntersville

BANDS FRIDAY & SATURDAY

STEVE ROADY Assistant. Managing Editors: nave Deen made by students °
PAUL ROWLAND GRAY WILSON _ , in the last. two years has
JOE SMITH RICHARD. WILSON helped to foster this new

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT

Assistant Business Manager:

TED HEEFNER

attitude by showing us what
we could accomplish if we

“VSR ——e | | ae

Pad - oF

q RSET Assistant Sports Editors: rut out the effort.” :
JOHN McLEAN ERNIE SHIPE Be‘sy — Breazeal, — newly Vihensten young people talk about clothes, we keep our eyes and ears
Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER elected President of the Shenae | We alge the things you say into the clothes we make. That way,
DON PARMAN pucagpachers: Queens SGA, \said that her | you can always be sure that we have the clothes you want to wear.
organization would deal with

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS
News Editor:
NEIL COGHILL
Photography Editors:

SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS
Cartoonists:

TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

other issues besides drinking.

“The SGA is going to in-
vestigate the possibility of
curriculum | reform,” said
Miss Breazeal. “A lot of stu-
dents see| a need for more

ih
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Monday - Saturday 6 to 12 p. m.

Super lean fitting jeans, $4.98. Maxi-collared sheer body shirt, $5.

Wrangler® Jeans
Wremember.the W." is Silent

Belk Mooresville, N. C.

JOHN DAVIUSON Assistahy Gopy. Fdltons: relevent topics in the cur- Sunday, 2 to 12 p.m. © 1970 wive wert, mes Belk Statesvill
BILL LYLE SCOTT DAVIDSON vicdlurn; ecoloey for’) éxam: HAPPY HOUR atesville, N. C.
Contributors this week: Rick Hart, Jeff Allender, Kes Wood- ple. is

ward, and George Kaneklides.

LIEBE SERED DA

SAA, VAS
e

“This was dealt with at
our recent symposium, Man
in Control, and it seems to

Monday - Thursday
Sunday

9:30 to 10:30 p.m.
4 to 6 p.m.

Smithey’s Statesville, N. C.
x
Round-Up ‘Troutman, N. C.

