SINGLES MATCHES
LISTED

(See Page Three

LIX

ye Bavuidsontan

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY,

MAY 1, 1970

‘WOODSTOCK’
REVIEWED

(See Page Four)

NUMBER TWENTY-FIVE

ECOS
Plans
Fish Kill

By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Tuesday's teach-in on en-
vironmental problems will
open with a fish-killing on
the porch of the College
Union at 10 a. m

A tank of fish will be set
up, and filled with polluted
water from Rocky. River.

According to Pat Mullen,
arganizer of the day's ac-
tivities, this demonstration
is designed to shock peopie
into realizing the ‘dimen-
sions of the vroblem. He
added that old people in
the area can remember
swimming in Rocky River.

At 10:15 a. m, U.S. Rep.
Nick® Galifanakis will speak
in the Morrison Room. Gali-
fanakis, sponsor of several
anti-polution “bills in the U.
S. House of Representatives,
is being sponsored by Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Galifanakis is speaking
free of charge; the frater-
nity is putting up only his
traveling allowance. P

At 2 p. m. in the Morrison

Room, a film made by the By W. E. JACKSON JR.

Asst. Prof: of Pol. Science

National Wildlife Federa-

tion, “‘So Little Time,"’ will These lines are written be-
be shown, According to (Mul- fore the President's speech
len, the film is regarded as of Thursday night. Buckets
one of the best on the sub- of rhetoric will be thrown
ject ever made upon the American people,

SLC Report May Suggest

Easier Drug Enforcement

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

these drugs.”

Deleting this phase will
not have the effect of ‘‘legal-
izing’’ drugs on campus, but
will only make enforcement

The Student Life Commit-
tee may propose that the

College ease its methods of against illegal drug usage
enforcement against drug or possession more flexible.
offenses. The SLC has discussed al-
Reports from the SLC, ternatives to punishment for
which is evaluating the drug abuse, specifically
Code of Responsibility, in- counseling measures before
dicate that the committee and after conviction.
will soon decide between SLC members were re-
two alternate wordings luctant to discuss specific

which would amend the ideas discussed in. commit-
Code’s prohibition on ‘‘harm- tee, but they said priyately
ful drugs." ‘ that there is a feeling with-

The—committee—is_ report- in the committee andthe
edly leaning toward-a_ softer administration that legali-
stand, and will probably re- ties involved with drug
commend dropping from the enforcement are too cum
Code the statement: ‘There bersome to be handled con-
fore the College will not veniently.

The SLC was charged by
College President Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. to evaluate the

tolerate the medically un-
supervised — use,
or distribution of

possession
any of

FRATERNITIES _IN_ CRISIS _--2  .

ON THE LINE \
Registrar Ostwalt replies to students’ charges.

Professor Questions U.S.
Cambodian Involvement

ts AN ANALYSIS

occured in
directed

aggression has
that little country,
by Communists.
We will be told that the
new military government in

rationalizing a policy of ex-
panded intervention in Indo-
china and salving our collec-
tive conscience.

We will be told” that the
way to bring the boys home
quicker from Vietnam is to
carry the war into Cambodia.
We will be told that external

free world in an area cov-
ered by SEATO, etc., and
we must help defend it. In
short, we will be subjected
to propaganda by the Pres-
ident of the United States
to justify an expansion of
our role in the war.

This much is known about
the Nixon Administration's
course of action. The U.S.
government is providing mil-

pa eat a PAL ae itary advisers, bombirtg

Oe eer omemaere strikes (possibly with B-52's),

make its récommendations and other support for a ma-
to the Board of Trustees, /

jor South Vietnamese  at-
tack upon North Vietnamese
and Viet Cong forces operat-
ing in Cambodia.

The attack was first an-
nounced by the South Viet-
namese Defense Ministry in
Sdigon and later. confirmed

which is scheduled to re-
examine the Code at its
meeting next fall.

Most members of the SLC
favor continuing the- Code,
which is the legal basis for
student-faculty relations and

the social life of students. by the Pentagon. Department

Next week the SLC will of Defense officials termed
begin hearings on the fra- the action ‘'a necessary and
ternity question. Spencer effective measure to save
had asked the committee to American and other free

world tives and to strengthen
the Vietnamization program.”

The stated objective of the
South Vietnamese attack is
to ‘‘destroy an extensive

the
pre-

present alternatives to
fraternity system—as
sently constituted.

All actions of the SLC on

the Code are merely ad- complex of North Vietnam-
visory to the trustees and ese and: V.C. bases and de-
to a special six-member pots in Cambodian territory.”
committee which has. the Several questions must be
sole power to propose raised rapidly and forcefully
amendments to the Code. about the Administration’s

decision. What specific com
mitment does the U.S. have

to the defense of Cambodia,

‘Outside Pressure’ Chief

AN ANALYSIS

By ED SHOAF
Editor-in-Chief

ED. NOTE: This is the second in a series of four ar-
ticles on ‘Fraternities in Crisis.”

As far ‘as fraternities are concerned, the Sixties
were a decade of outside threats and reluctance to
change. If nothing else the past decade has proved
the futility of the cry for change from within the sys-

m. y
i Cry for fraternity reform was not long in coming
after Davidson had greeted the new decade. In March
of 1960 the faculty began to become concerned about
the relationship between pledge training and fresh-
man academic performance.

The Interfraternity Council (IFC) and the faculty
Fraternity Committee began to consider the question,
arid on May 3 the faculty overwhelmingly voted to
require sophomore rush beginning with the class of

966.

: Part of the faculty’s decision was based on. con-
cern over a large number of men who had gone in-
active during the first of the second semester in 1960.
In spite of this apparent sentiment, however, 521 out
of 732 fraternity members expressed their opposition
to the ruling in a petition to the faculty. the next
week.

‘ In the fall of 1961 business continued as usual
with 81 percent of the freshmen pledging fraternities
in the first week of school. :

Within two weeks, three fraternity men presented
the IFC with a plan opposing the faculty move of the
previous spring. Students, they claimed, were mature
enough to solve their own problems without sopho-
more rush.

The plan liberalized pledging by prohibiting “act-
ual hazing”,as well as “‘stud or laundry running, shoe
shining, car washing or other personal services; forc-

ed eating: calisthenics and any other’ objectionable
requirements. ~~

The fraternities rejected the proposal by a nine
to three vote saying that it took away too much of
the control over pledges.

A revised plan was rejected on Oct. 14, 1960,
but by November the IFC had a plan which it could
submit to the faculty. On Dec. 9 the faculty agreed
to postpone the institution of sophomore rush for
a year to test the IFC rules on hazing.

With the start of 1962 the question of social life
for the Independents again came to the fore of facul-
ty discussion. The result was the organization of Lingle
Manor on May 4. By the next year the Manor had 57
members.

On Nov. 9, 1964, the college administration
brought the questions back to life with a challeng&
to the fraternities to help those 27 percent of the
student body who had been rejectéd from fraternities.

Charging that fraternity willingness to change was
ephemeral and only surfaced in times of direct threat,
administration. member Bob Young suggested one
hundred percent bidding or sophomore rush as pos-
sible solutions to the problem.

The fraternities argued back that they were not
responsible for the stigma on rejected people in that
since they cared for 73 percent of the students the
college should handle the rest. They also argued
that pledge projects were beneficial and that fresh-
men needed the fraternity social life.

A student body committee was set up to consider
the questions. In Mar. 1965 a report was returned
which recommended delayed rush,.the establishment
of local eating clubs, setting up a campus-wide social
council to handle former IFC booking duties, and re-
stricting fraternity membership to juniors and seniors.
Minority reports continued to favor faternities.

Then on Apr. 13, 1965 the faculty rejected all
committee reports and ruled that no rush of* any

Phnom Penh is part of the ”

Spencer Meets Students;

No Action Promised Yet
On Course Credits Dispute

By JOHN McLEAN between the © shift
from old curriculum to the

Blue Sky curriculum.

school

Managing Editor

College President Samuel Senior David, leader of
R. Spencer Jr. and Regis- the students’ Ad Hoc Com-
trar Jay H. Ostwalt met mittee for the Protection of
with concrened students and Students, asked Ostwalt to
faculty Monday night to show how it was fair for
iron out differences over those summer school courses
recentl#rejected Student not to be counted toward

Curriculum
Commit-

appeals to the
Requirements
tee (CRC)

graduation.
The controversy arises

primarily from confusion in

Students had ‘complained converting “semester hours”
that, they were unfairly to “courses.” The rule in
denied graduation credits question states that at the

time of the curriculum shift,’
anyone having 58 to 72 hours
would be required to com
plete 16 courses to graduate.
Students with less than 72
hours took the
summer of 1968, apparent
ly thinking that credits
would apply against the 16
course requirement and not
or to the particular. govern- simply be added below the
ment in power there? What 72 hour line,
vital interests of the U.S. are Ostwalt: and the GRC rul-
at stake in that country? ed that thase courses would

for work done in) summer

courses in

(In other words, does it make only build toward the 72
a hell of a lot of difference hour figure, hehce yielding
to the balance of power what no graduation credit. Ost-
happens there?) What is walt pointed out that the 58

the estimated probability of — hour line was generous to
success, at various levels of those who were — behind
E ¢ isk? :

cost and risk? schedule academically at

the curriculum shift.

But paradoxically, the
same summer school course
taken in,1968 for no credit

Another series of questions:
On what authority does the
South Vietnamese  govern-
ment intervene in Cambodia?
QOn-whose authority does the would yield credit if taken
U.S. aid the invasion of in 1969.

Cambodia? Can the Cambod- Senior’ Dick Allison chal
ians be etagpei ue Han . lenged Ostwalt to show who
On cekananee x Tee aad would suffer by granting
Vetnainese? credit for the courses.

Neither Ostwalt nor any
other administration offjcial
offered a reply.

Ostwalt maintained that
there should have been no
confusion .because it was
clearly stated that the Blue
Sky curriculum would take
effect in September, not
June.

Last week in South Viet-
nam the-death-rate for Amer-
ican soldiers was the lowest
in a month—just under 100.
The casualty rate was well
over 1000. This is reason
enough not to sit on our
hands and watch helplessly
as another expansion of the
war occurs. ee

He could not provide any
written notice to that effect
dated before September,
and several students said
that this had not been made

There is a course of action
open to us, DAVIDSONIAN
readers should call, wire,
write their Senators and
Representatives in the Con

gress, urging them to take plain.
action to thwart the decision Several faculty members
of the Nixon Administration. present vowed that the

summer school credit issue
was not plain at the time,
and at least one CRC mem-
ber intimated that the am-

This is a promising course
of action because congress-
men of various political phi
losophies and of both parties

have already indicated they biguity : of interpretation
have serious doubts about a would justify reconsidera-
wider war in Indochina. tion in the £RC. ei

(Staff Photos by Lyle)

MARA LOVES

Singing of cities and of love, the Canadian folk
group “Mara Loves” arrived at the Hungry d Tuesday
night where they will entertain coffeehouse audiences
twice nightly through Saturday.

Foster Explains
New Draft Rule

Col. Virgil P. Foster, pro-
fessor of military science,
has requested clarifying in-
formation from Washington
concerning President

deferments as of Apr. 23,
the President had proposed
legislation that would grant
him authority to eliminate
student deferments .at his

Nixon's proposed legislation discretion,

which would allow the Pres He stated that upon. its
ident to eliminate defer- passage, he would in fact
ments. eliminate student defer-

ments retroactive to
23, 1970.

“Foster said that, as he un Abr.

derstood it, the proposed

legislation (if passed) and The order would not af-
the forthcoming executive fect present 2S deferments
order would permit defer- requested as of Apr. 23, but

not processed.

Although details were not
available, the Charlotte
draf board said that it had
received a_ telegram _halt-
ing the granting of any new
2-A deferments.

ments only for undergraduate
students who are enroll-
ed in ROTC,

Foster also brought out
the interesting question, as

yet unanswered, of whether

those who drop out of ROTC Those with physical dis-
now and lose their 1-D de abilities precluding active
ferment will be granted a duty would not be affected.
2S deferment after revert-

Foster said that he thought
the President's action would
have no effect on defer
ments for medical school,

ing to 1-A.
In addition to eliminating

o¢cupational and paternity

ause Of Social Reform

kind could take place in the year 1965-1966.

They further ruled that all campus organizations
must show proof that any student was eligible to be-
céme a member, regardless of race or religion, or the
group must disband. .

Finally the faculty-ruled that two more fraternity
houses would be built as non-selective eating clubs
if groups could be found desiring them.

Fraternity response to these moves was one of
outrage. Seniors threatened to boycott required chap-
els and vespers. Two days later about half the stu-
dent body engaged in a torchlight parade of protest
over the action.

The students called for the ouster of Assistant
Dean of Students Bob Jones who they felt was most
responsible for the action. President D. Grier Martin
dissipated the parade by urging flat students seek
other means of protest.

Meeting on Apr. 30, the Board of Trustees rein
stated rush on a delayed basis in the first semester
of the freshman year. They too vowed to provide any
interested eating group with a house similar to the
fraternity houses.

In the fall‘of 1965 rush was delayed until Oct.
30. New studies of the situation were set up.

.Acting on the recommendation of the faculty
Social Life Evaluation Committee, the faculty on Feb.

22, 1956 ruled that in the 1967-68 year, rush would~®

be held second semester, a total affiliation plan would

yw be used, and the freshmen would eat in the Union

all year long.

Complying with the faculty rules, the IFC drew
up a social affiliacy plan in Mar. 1967. The plan would
allow. freshmen not receiving a bid to visit several
houses as: social affiliates.

This plan was approved by the faculty. Also the
faculty urged the establishment of another. social
group for the campus. A group of Independents began

to form the “Campus Club” and were told that a new
house would be built for them if they could collect
40 paying members. :

Meanwhile the national chapters of Davidson's
fraternities began to protest over the social affiliation
plan. After meetings in the spring and fall of 1967
the nationals were satisfied by the adoption of the
present extended rush program.

Also in Sept. 1967 the Campus Club had secured
35 members and sought to obtain a house from the
college. The College, however, refused to act on the
request, presumably because 40 members had not been
exhibited.

More study of the fraternity system was completed
in 1969 with the conclusion of study by the Spencer
Commission on Social Patterns. This commission rec-
ommended in the majority that fraternities be divorced
of their eating facilities stating that the institutional
fraternities had no place on the Davidson campus.

A trend toward campus-wide social life with the
residence halls as its center was encouraged by the
commission. Again a’ minority repoft dissented from
the anti-fraternity sections of the commission report.

The 1969-1970 school year has also seen the fail-
ure of an attempt by a group of students at the
Sigma Chi house to form a local fraternity. ~

More recently fraternities have. been under fire
for the instances cited in the first article of the series.
However, no changes in the system have occurred
since 1967. P
«,., Yet in retrospect today’s fraternities are quite
different than those of 1960. How did this change
occur? It seems clear from the record that ¢ ie
came only as an immediate effort to protect.the sys-
tem from serious and threatening pressure from the -
outside. ;

Next week: a look at fraternity problems on a
nationwide scale?
