Terriers’ Lightni

AN ANALYSIS

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

Dont tell the Davidson Wild
cats that hghtaing never strikes

twice!

In 1969. Wofford squeaked by
the Wildcats 28-27 thanks to an
extra point booted by Randy
Bringman wtth 29) seconds to

play.

Last Saturday Bringman came
back to haunt the ‘Cats again,
as he connected on a 46-yard
field goal with 2:52 left in the
game to give the Terriers a
thrilling 23-22 victory.

The loss was quite a jolt to
the frustrated ‘Cats. who turn.
ed in their best overall effort
of the season.

A scoreless first quarter es-
tablished several patterns for
the remainder of the game.

The ‘Cat defense came out
hitting and never let up, har-
rasing Terrier quarterback Car-
ter Davis and containing run-
ner Cliff Boyd.

The offense relied heavily on
slashing runs by Johnny Ribet
and Bill Bracken, who showed
signs of regaining his sopho-
more form.

The interception jinx caught
up with the ‘Cats in the second
period, as Rick Kemmerlin was
hit on a rollout play and his
deflected pass fell into the
arms of defensive end Henry
Medlock.

Medlock lumbered 55 yards
to paydirt, and the 'Cats found
themselves in the familiar posi-
tion of having to play catch-up
football.

The offense was unable to get
into the end zone, so they call-
ed on the defense, who respond-
ed with a safety. The Terriers
added another score on a short
run to take a 14-2 halftime lead.

The third quarter saw the
‘Cats come back from the dead,
as they rolled to three touch-
downs.

Kemmerlin, who directed the
‘Cat attack with poise and a
variety of plays, scored twice
on sneaks up the middle, while
Bracken blasted over from close
range.

Many fingers were crossed
and rabbit’s feet were rubbed
as the fourth period began.
Good luck charms had no ef-
fect, however, as the Terriers
took advantage of several
breaks to get back in the game.

Wildcat punter Harold Wilk
erson had a kick blocked and

* NETTERS ELECT
-  CO-CAPTAINS

Frank Dana and David
Weaver were elected co-
captains of the Davidson
tennis team last week.

Weaver, a junior, played
second court singles and
first court doubles for the
netters last year.

Dana, a senior, is start
ing for the Wildcats for the ©
first time this year.

The tennis team has been
% Practicing for about two

a4 5s

Pe Dot eee te ee Be a

ad. thn » AeA 8 ot

@he Davibeomian —(Ortber PT Page Sever

ng Strikes Wildcats

run back for oa touchdew: ‘eOecEer Some Sartes BTS PITS S$ ihe Dos

Which) pulled the Termers ‘co Sent Nocras and Bertes =eo~ Mocigeemtet3 SD Ss 2 OT Ages! “he Terres. howewerr

Within two pots at 2220 Teec Sa@ruers fac untes rears geeog ful eck ase ONSET pe ceemer ect guarct Rete
A very questionable Pilingor fal TEASE Sel eseries pies Oe Dees ST ap ETET ayes Evbet tecktes Larry Speers anc

Penalty against the ‘Cats en- kus from Geectrs “Do Te eve TNRRE ToNmems ete Gerry Coulter amc cemter 8

abled the Terriers to keep a2 NocTw B 2 Mek “aT Met “Ee Ere Dees 8 Sorc we. Tee Neckias for “het ots Best of

drive moving, and when the ¢7 2 met Set Smmer acd wet mot oat Slashes some; tere

defense stiffened, Bringman sent gfeat ococctpecter” ome seed i fone speed ~ Fs -

the East stands into hysteria Mosketu cabled Noers ue mos Tu femse ooecomoeet ou + nss. ate : t- owe

with his perfect three-pointer. Meesesen: Gefemswe praset frac NTS ag EST es oe! OM paces MOY ETS Ll PINE woe $
The heartbreaking  defea: week if Stet 7 ot gauarmet st Brecae- 7 EAL Nelotass $s ws" te

produced several standout play “Barbdee's bagges* asse* s ts Te eet foe “i yarms anc Rite posta Dae Carne

ers for the ‘Cats quickmess. anc be Sees bss jd S28 tyke Metond sot A phases of oe Ca: wet
Defensive coaches Bob Mos. 7 sete of Emamg ap agents Toe oMfemsve le ocpewec 0 seevec ool las Seturdas

hettt and Alex Gettys were comsadecaaty lager sooomen*s ° fipevi Mies fo tomes for 7 272 "™E.\ aPOeer wad c

Pleased with the play of cap commestes Gettys TEER al leas Wo ES Pas° (ME 2 Thoetweciam oc socce

tains Woody Montgomery and Bartes as w2k2et cus loops rat gooit go Efoec :

Robert Norris, ends Jim Hardt. Viragh itt years Oy Gooty Touser secomned cs cme Lrg or Ro pest oe -. Mave

son and Mike Sikes. tackles Bill OMIT LSSS Se 22 STes  atlempes Piussar and ivy cre ht ~ x Roce

Garrett and Jack Stultz) and Geflect pesoement stlempes b ae ‘aused > “3 Toe

SCORPIO,
OCT. 24-NOV. 22

No one can resist the forceful. Gynarmc personality of
Scorpio. No one (not ewen Scorpeo) car ressst the dynamic.

ood taste of Schiitz Malt Liquor. bearing the sign of
ourus the Bull.

Scorpio, you are the sexiest. most magnetic sign ir the
Zodiac, but you may tend to shun the worid and live secretiy. However,
if you show any sign of welcome, people fiock to your door. So call a
few Pisces and Cancer friends and show them a real sign of
welcome... Taurus the Bull.
Your piercing Scorpio eyes will teli you. Schiitz Malt Liquor is not to be
taken lightly. It's decidedly different from beer. True, you're cagey
enough to know that Taurus comes on bold. But look out, it may
surprise even you.

Nobody makes matt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.

