~The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-
PENING.” . —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR SEPTEMBER 17, 1971

From Here On Out
Big Brother Is Us

Things, at least for the moment, appear to be look-
ing up for the Davidson students. After several years of
facing a lack of real concern from powers-that-be, mem-
bers of the student body are actually being given positions
of responsibility in governing their own lives.

The latest positive actions by college authorities con-
cern the creation of the positions of residence hall man-
agers and the first step in the opening of.the Admissions
and the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee to stu-
dent members.

The potential committee openings are especially signi-
“fichnt, for they mark a successful culmination to an endur-
ing student drive for representation that has lasted for
years. Even the most embittered cynics at Davidson cannot
in good faith fail to realize that the faculty has done the
students a real service by recognizing our potential.

The new residence hall manager posilion, too, scems
to have been created with the students’ interests in mind.
Rather than facing the continual “light-checking” raids of
a Sgt. Penley or even stricter enforcement, the students
now are under the more tolerant and understanding eye
of their peers, and will in all probability receive a more

in realistic deal concerning dorm maintenance and enforce-
; Ment.

Who’s Minding The Mint?

Comprehensive Tuition:

The initial reading of the amendments in the faculty
meeting this week and the vote of approval which it re-
ceived is certainly a welcome sign.

_ It is encouraging to find that the faculty, long a group
which had advocated extreme separation of powers, is wil-
ling to allow students to have a voice in committee decisions,
which often affect the students directly.

At the same time, however, the college administration
has notified parents and underclassmen of the projected
comprehensive fee which will take effect in the fall. 4

As it~has initially been stated, the comprehensive fee
may well be the most regulatory tactic that Davidson has
developed in recent years.

We have not worked with the business office to find
out the precise nature of the problems which have‘led them
to adopt this new method of bill collection. There is a
very definite danger to student interests in such a plan.
The students do not know where the dollars which they
pay go until they get a chance to see a college budget.

The activities fee will be incorporated into the com-
prehensive fee, making the college. and not the student
senate, the distributor of monies for publications and or-
ganizations. In effect, it may become a weapon if the ad-
ministration wants it to be. This is not our immediate
fear, but it could be of tremendous import at a later date.

_ If room and board are included in the comprehen-
sive fee, the college will be directly controlling the variety
! of life styles open to students. Although recent court cases
have reafiirmed the legal right of the college to require
all students to live on campus, we do not think that David-
son should accept this sort of outright control.

__ We hope that the college will think enough of its com-
mitment to creating mature individuals that it will allow
them to make some choices on their own in their four
years at Davidson. oo et

Meet The New Long-line

As you may or may not have noticed (this para-
graph should have given -you a clue), the paper this
week has been set on wider columns. It makes for a
great deal for the readers, 10% more words at no
additional cost. ,

CECIL BURNEY
Faculty
Heresies

Many years ago, when David
son College was much smaller
and its faculty was composed
largely of Presbyterian min-
isters, almost all the student
violations of college rules were
recorded with great care in the
faculty minutes.

The faculty was charged with
the power to enforce all such
college rules, and looking
through its minutes brings up
some interesting facts about
the kinds of students who used
to study (or not study. as the
case may have been) here.

It seems that drunkenness
has always been a_ favorite
pastime of the mischievous stu-
dent at Davidson. The first pub-
lic record of this is found in
the early months of 1844 in the
minutes where it is recorded
that a student was suspended
indefinitely ‘for the crime of
drunkenness.”

This was but the first of
many such suspensions of those
who “had repeatedly been in-
dulging in the intemperate use
of ardent spirits.”

Damage done to dormitory
rooms has a long history here,
too. As early as 1845 it was re-
corded that three students were
suspended indefinitely ‘‘on the
charge of stoning some other
students’ rooms and of being
disorderly in other ways.”

It is interesting to note, how-
ever, that students at Davidson
in those days also occasionally

destroyed entire buildings. It is.

noted that one such building

+ was demolished on this cam-

pus during a ‘‘riot” in 1854, al-
though it is not clear from the
minutes exactly why this was
done.

Mischievous tricks and pranks
were played by many students
during the early history of this
College. The most notable of
these happened in 1851 when
one student put some gun pow-
der into another student‘s can-
diesnuffers, thus causing con-
siderable explosions late at
night.

The years 1861-1865 were
rough ones for the College in
terms of student conduct, per-
haps because most ‘‘good-man-
nered’’ students had left the
College to fight for the Con-
federate States in the Civil War,
thus leaving behind many who
were not as “‘orderly” in their
ways.

In 1862, for example, several
students were ‘accused of throw-
ing rocks at a professor’s house.
Shortly thereafter, several stu-
denis were accused of throw-
ing ‘‘brickbats” from the dorm-
itory windows.

Brickbats, however, were not
the only things to come out of
those dormitory windows. On
March 18, 1864, a student con-
fessed to be guilty of the charge
“of having defiled the window
in the South end of the second
story by using it for dirty and
filthy purposes.”

A similar story was recorded
in 1863. Two faculty members,
patrolling the grounds of the
College late at night, noticed
that a light was carried from
a room on the secon@ floor to
an empty room .on: the third
floor. ~

Upon inspection of the third

floor room the riext morning
“it was discovered to have
been used as a privy, and very
much defiled.’ ‘On examining,
other rooms were also found to
be used in the same way.”

Some students in the current
generation must think that the
use of special pipes for smok-
ing purposes is a recent inven-
tion, but, alas, in 1863 fevera
ingenious Davidson students
broke into a classroom and
stole a piece of rubber pipe
and a piece of glass tubing
which were joined together for
the purpose of smoking.

Pipe smoking ip- classrooms
was quite illegal in those days,
and on one morning in 1863 a
student was seen smoking while
entering a classroom by the
President of the College.

The President grabbed him
by the arm and snatched the
pipe from him. The student ran
away from the President and
began cursing wildly, The fa-
culty decided to dismiss the
unruly student from school.

Students were known to call
illegal meetings occasionally,
in spite of warnings from Col-
lege officials. Some of these
meetings were for political pur-
poses, but on one occasion a
phrenologist proposed (to several
students that he be allowed to
address the student body in a
series of six lectures. ~

The students asked if a col-
lege building could be used for
this purpose, but ‘‘the Faculty
decided unanimously that the
request should not be granted.”

The lectures were then held
in another building without the
Faculty’s knowledge. When this
was discovered, all the students
involved were severely admon-
ished for their behavior.

Minutes Record .- :
Of Past Students

t
t

In February, 1863, one stu-
dent received permission to go
to Charlotte ‘‘to place himself
under the care of the Physici-
ans there, to be cured of some
disease which he said he had
had for some time.”

s The President of the College
asked the boy’s dectors about
the iliness and discovered that
the boy had a form of veneral
disease. The boy was promptly
sent home.

In almost all these cases, stu-
dents were suspended for their
activities. In thinking about to-
day's students and administra-
tors, we can see some parallels
which exist with the: past.

Students try to express them-
selves in spontaneous, energe-
tci. and flexible ways. Some
administrators and faculty
members, however, find it dif-
ficult to allow students to have
their own feelings or fantasy,
and they continually try to keep
students from doing things
which the ‘old guard” does not
approve.

Many years of experience
have shown that youth in this
country is forced to conform
to standards which it does not
understand, and, as a result,
many students become number
to their real feelings and their
real joys.

It would be a good thing if
Davidson, in contrast, could be-
gin to help students express
themselves more fully and in-
dividually and not be so con-
cerned with making everybody
act in the same way.

Perhaps then, by following
the example of faculty and ad-
ministrators who are sensitive
and accept people, students

can become the kinds of peo-
ple this world needs most.
