‘INDEFENSIBLE . The ero a a So 1971 Page, cee

: ’ < SQA ey
THE DAVIDSONIAN has come off the annual judg-
a re i ing cireuit with ‘the biggest award the p paper has ever
a e ict received,’ according to former editor Ed Shoaf.
‘ The newspaper has won first place in two major
By DICK ANDERSON popular support Calley is re Why had Calley doné nat college newspapel-eompetitions and has scored impres-
Associate Editor ceiving was largely nega he did? sively in the Associated Collegiate Press’ (ACP) evalu
‘Ht Caley oan er ca Live. ie oy eae a lot se a ation, winning an All-American citation. a
fot ‘naduehtants iit uh tiicat “The verdict is a reason- speek Mosca nave : oie x The papers which were submitted: for judging by x
least some degree of-control able verdict, and the sen is ies o1 be toh tor the ACP were for the fall and early winter term under °
gun these people down,’ said tence ds a resonable one, a ips Lk ita Rh sandy me Soeer ae SE aid &
Gap MEehWRd Be Ceenioay too,’ said Capt. Robert 0. cheer anise ae ee tg have rhe ACP judge of the paper “alled the news cover- ‘
of tha Decider ROTC ‘3 Haight. ‘‘A lot of people feel CORRE SS ON for these peanle. age “excellent, complete and concise,” noting readers &
‘ Be et be ee doing | pee It wasn't like that in 1965 get a good view of life at Davidson.’ Also singled out
partment, “then to me, he ipl cal iacts Meal job, Per- and 1966."" ae for praise were the editorials for their ‘good strong ‘
should be punished. As far‘as s mally 2 can eich how you Garner, Carmody and Ser stands on vital, provocative subjects,” and the paper’s \
the rules aes concerned, it mee: daoties eee Recbie 1 ern all’ said that they thought “professional style.’ *
Was, murder.” 2 ditch and shooting them. Calley’s unit was a poor one.“ In the Hollins College competition whieh involves ;
This’ opinion’ seemed to be Pearce pointed out that “Thold Capt. Medina large- schools throughout the Southeastern United States, THE ®&
fairly general among the whether other atrocities had ly responsible because the DAVIDSONIAN was singled out as the best college *
members of the ROTC cadre been committed and wheth- commanding officer is re+ newspaper, pAniehing second was the Wake. Forest ‘Old 4
interviewed. er artillerymen or bombers sponsible for all his peaple Gold and Black.’ : ve e
‘There was a requirement also. killed..civilians was ir do and fail to do,” said Sev : Those two papers also auraini ued the Charlotte Ob- &
for a trial,” Said Major Bob retevant tothe Cattey—case: ern, —whe-was—_the—onty—offi- ——server—contest _tor—colese—_papers—in-North—and* South e
W. Garner. ‘He ylolated as He and Carmody thought cer who had led infantry in * Carolina, wity THE DAVIDSONIAN taking first place &
I know it the rules of engage- that there was insufficient Vietnam, “and he didn’t have - for the fourth time in five years in the small college *
ment in Vietnam." understanding of the issues control of that situation. ‘Cal division and the Wake Forest paper taking’ the large &
Sgt. Charles O. Jaap dis- n the public. ley didn't have control eith- college trophy for the second -yvear in a row, oe
agreed that Calley should ERY Se a ree er_tt_came—outin_the-testt*— Also singled —eut inthe Charlotte Observer contest g
Muse Haan Grieg Bie fale chi . ao ae . ae : a mony: that Calley had to stop was. Windy March who won the first prize in the news i
the Army's -“apiions were ane i a : <A : rere pa Nea the rape of a. Vietnamese cbt contest for. ah ome A heak fall on the controversy S
iradbewt: Wee the Nikembute | hides et is es ¢ woman. It must have been a over student medical records, .
a jury decided, Calley ought to pretty damn. loose platoon.” we
proceedings er ay ; ' : WA AAG
be required to serve, I don't
“T think Calley got a raw hink he should be made. to AY : LJ ° :
Coal: he shouldn't-have come stay in prison, though,’ said te) | ron’ De end nion Ban
‘to itrial,’’ he said. ‘In many Capi. Theodore R. Severn. Se = : Ae
ways -his trial was an. at-
tempt to pacify the critics of ce: mt see why he would *om NN : >| i | ‘
dents have been’ <e t Nur Haigh But there wouldn't a V eC u ve n ena &
emburg), what cho'ce . did ANY -TEASOR AGL UO Wee Ne DAVID HANIG ban the film without consult utive Committee found ob-
the mijitary have in bringing tn wnen he is: eligible, Copy Editor - ing the Union Board>» “he jectionable,
him to.trial?”’ Jaap felt that under no At the invitation of the cause we and not the Union Strong replied that ‘there
“By his ewn admission,” mstanc hould Calley SGA, Union Board ‘President Board brought it to David were closeups of genitalia
aid Sgt. Major Jerome D. pardoned hecause of the Lester Strong appeared be son,’ Strong explained being manually stimulated.”
Pearce, however, “Lt. Cal j cal. pressure, but said for the Senate in its weekly “Secondly we thought that Meza then asked about the
ley is guiliy of deliberate! ruehi Calle} had meeting Monday night to ex ‘Groove Tube’ did not meas 500 dollars that was paid for
killing peop'e who wer in  alveady and piain the Union Executive ure up to our standards of the film, Strong responded,
no way h ' ve] 1 jail Board’s action in banning the entertainment,’’ Strong con “We didn’t lose the money..
plac n\ ( ‘ ) i pur film “Groove Tube last tinued We weren't supposed to pay
his pcople. I: wa 33 } proven week, Senior senator Mark Meza unless we showed the flick.”
ible.”’ yan The Union Executive Board then pressed Strong for in- Strony admitted that the
Reaction ‘te the wave k Her,’ -he said felt that it“had: the right to formation om what the Exec- controversy arose because of

the, indefinite structure — of

the Uni Board and its du-

Young Republicans blast Spencer \ieswitc"
ing, SGA President Danny

By GRAY WILSON csser cials, indteasing = — Gately BOuMIed Upon its ah saci Hi ee pee plan" “Clodfelter said that he felt

ue S verhead costs, and causing covery.’ for an alternative solution.” fie Ace ee

Managing. Ed.tog 1 in the faculty Another proposal objected A fina] motion to-censure fet pete ae

The Y ou 1g) ieepapic om eT NOU) sa ise ihe 2 i Dean of» Studentss Will H. been Jost on’ the Union Board

pulled out al stops 3 ‘ hs resig- library: Alte 1h PiBCg Ob Une Terry for iris response to the and that he doubted — that

cently, call yr the resig na.ioniconcluded: “Since Da College Union abortion suc on campus they would ever try to cen
nation of ege President v don, College. has not prov Vice-president Robert Mo was tabled. Morey said that sora film again,

Samuel R, ‘Spencer Jr, and 1 suiiable for the objectives rey said, “This move by the Terry shad used the weight th cian Scat Hotton: jaca

censuring other policies on Spencer set forth on assump college is wasteful and in of his office to influence the letter to Clodfelter, ‘fresh-

the Davidson campus ) of his office, we firmly convenient. It is foolish to ue though he did not spec inan Marty Soards resigned

At a. meeting last Thurs- wish that an institution wor- | tedr down a union for a li fy how his position, as. the Canon

day night, the group accused iy of the presidents imag brary in its stead, and then Explaining all this recent Dormitory representative on

Spencer of delegating powers inative abilities be found for to spread the new union all ictiviiy, Morey said, °tOur ihe sehate (becaied he fnas

to an-increasing number of him, and that he be .imme- ver town. We will ask the actions will become even not have ‘enough time, .he

more vocal in the future, never knew when the senate

and we are a little more con- meetings were, and because

ervative than the typical “the SGA is unrepresenta;

Davidson group. (See DEFENDS, Page 10)

! Commenting on the David

Peace Coalition, recently

organized for the spring of- ¥ The Davidson College '
fensive in Washington, Mo- Drama Workshop will })
rey added, ‘I’m sure those present two one - act »
people enjoy the work they plays by playwright é
do, but we don’t want to re- Slawomir Mrozek. 4
strict ourselves “to questions “Charlie” is directed by %
of war and peace.”’ George Draughon and =
The Youn gi Republicans + will be presented by
have a present membership . ~ Bill Rowland, Jeff
! my ef 43, but. at the last meeting ’ Loughridge, and_ Gil
less than half of them at; Terriberry. “Out at
tended, Sea” is directed, by #
Also, following their last Peter Lutken and the «
‘ 4 meeting, Kes Woddward, pre- ‘cast includes Bill Green,
sident of the group, resign Cullum’ Rogers, Peter
ed from the position because Lutken, Bob Wright,
of the actions taken by the and Lee Farnell.
club. The plays, staged in
: Woodward pointed out later the round, will be per-
: A : that because a quorum was _ formed’ on Thursday at —
EOS APE NO a not present, the proposal by j 7:30 p.m. in the Mor-
(Staff photo by Lyle) the Young Republicians con- ; bane Room; ~ College
PLOTTING REVENGE ‘ {cerning Spencer's resigns 7 Union
meee The Young, Republicans lash out at recent college policy. ; tion is. invalid, 25
