Ske Mavibsowian November 5. 1971 Page Seven

BULLDOGS

By CHARLIE TERRELL Toledo was a bg mistaxe. 25 “ashes of brmiliance buv has
Asst. Sports Editor the Bucs were clobbered 43 Meer bothered by nagging ank.-
Te. r ten x - ta:-nd _ _ Pea en mac
A person named Ulmo sounds nae vee . veces ene _ So yurves He _
as a should be opera‘ing Parates losing: “0 writen ane . ' “< for “ 43 a8 erag and
. Mary 2419 and > Bowling eis speed and size make hir
“Ulmo’s Used Auto Parts” or Green 47-21 . dangerous outside threa:
“Ulmo’s Upholstery
Uimo Randle. however. is bet- The Pirates gained tmeu firs C P mg the Pirate bacs
ter known as Sonny and he sap- win over The Citadel .n 2 d eld .s quarerheck John Casaz
pens to coach the East Caro scoring affair. 31-25. but D be best passe
lina Pirates. who prov.de to fe Richmond 14-7 anc $ mig s€asor
morrow's opposition for the We rginia 44-2 . . for
° e al = | Pe SEET 4 aa
Wildcats in a Southerr. confer- Recen ne Boss . vce s Tim Dameor
once football con'est ded umpress.:< . - oe -> nave de
The game wil! be played on are fan SS OC Sms 21% ar oo ok _
. . ~- (me » L MAS So ad < gree ince ot
> > ; Ficklen Stadium in Greenv.tie Farmar & The upse’ : Racd -—er A
H : ° be ? and will be Homecormung for —_ ne Dae tine . . - <
bn et a a a tl . a the Pirates sere ne a” : oO
= 2 > 2st arn na «- G re shhe
(Staff photo by Erwin) The Pirates have posted 2 ene ee
RED AND BLACK 3-5 overall record thus far. and oo re ed 2:8 :
Nate Bowman fires an outside shot in varsity basketball = stand 2-2 in the conference ; x eNng of good pur
Practice. Opening their season #rc 1¢ 3 - ard ugh
‘ sod 2.t2cas ee fr th
Cagers To Meet Aussie Team ee
The Davidson basketball team Rocky Crosswhite is a leading The same team that ‘he Wud - 7 a d ficd
is slowly bouncing back in pre- scorer for the Aussies, and has cats meet will play in Musics se rer a
paration for the 1971 season. toured with them for two years. a. the Olympics - “* ~ $
The first trial for the cagers Last year the exhibition team The Davidson weam nas be- _ ; ° : ° a z+ ¢
will be an exhibition game with toured the Big Ten Conference gun pract.cing for the commg = - - 7 -
the Australian Olympic Team and fared fairly well, accord- season. Siraynecn and Wai - " _
in Charlotte on Dec. 1. ing to head basketball coach After sta: good that igh ure C 2 4 an . —_
Former Davidson player Terry Holland. two weeks. all-co more Carleses Trump: ore Cade ct : —_
6 e ference wing for the Cats last aR Swart 7
KittensMeetPups 322°" "* a
tice sessions. . SR ees
e Sutter is only the third re : a a . — ~
turning varsity player for the oe WS ae ess
In I inal Con fest Wildcats. joining returnees Ere a °
Minkin and John Pecoraa =~ 7 fs 0s fetcte sy ©
By SCOTT McMICHAEL edly see varsity action next The team has nine sepo> Thus sear Crumpler 7.5 sa pet gam
Staff Writer year. mores, five scholarship piarers t
The Wildkittens will lay their The ’Kittens will face a real included. and - upperclass-
500 record on the line this test today against The Citadel. men who have never plared it

afternoon when they meet The
Citadel Bullpups at Richardson

The Bullpups are only 1-3 but
last week they defeated a strong

‘CATS TO MEET SPIDERS,

Gridders Tackle Pirates
In Fourth Conference Tilt

Varsity competition

. + ; The status of Bryan Adrian
Field. Victory over the Wake East Carolina freshman team. jag not been finally determined.

Forest freshmen last week ad-
vanced the freshman record to

Stevens feels that the contest
will be hard-fought but has con-

according to Holland. Adrian

canno: work out

2-2. fidence in the Wildkittens as according to conf
In reviewing the season, long as they are ready. tations. and is

Coach Tom Stevens pointed to

several -handicaps with which game with two new co-captains. The Souther: '

the team has been forced to Hesty Hesterburg is the offen- instituted a ne

play this year. sive captain and George Weick- team members
Since the ‘Kittens are used er leads the defense. players. Hoilan

primarily to prepare the var- Davidson students are en- not make any Cut |

sity for their game each week, couraged to turn out and sup- teen 1 Davidson

it has seen cfficult for the port the freshmen in their bid would “simply ;

team to develop its own style season. game.

of football.

Each week finds the team
running the offenses and de-
fenses employed by whatever
team the varsity is scheduled to
play on Saturday.

The freshmen are also small

The ‘Kittens go into today’s

for a winning

from his last

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY - NAVY STORE

Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies

ee

+2 eon

oc ee ee

but have a good measure of : ; betty sccks .. . doug 2! the
speed to compensate for the Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus a Anastetien. Pe 429
lack of size. Camping Equipment understane why WET Faces

Stevens praised the defense
for-its consistent play through-
out the season. Student-coach
Jeff Lynn cited the cohesive
team effort of the defense ‘and

170 N. Main

Field Jackets —- P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans

Mooresville. N. C

cf Fame” is such 2 mt Neostaic
anc literature. anc WET row
@s tar back as 1350. Wike ly
"ost the five-tcur socw

| from up and down

anc
etc. Mike recerves ac auaianche “ot mari
te

was reluctant to single out out i 5 sam “ ou mgt Sed oh eueete gf
Standing players because ev- ' thing ct Sly di at oot tor fe + . a The
... St feast for fe Tours a

eryone had been doing their
jobs so well.

The strength of the offense.
according to Coach Stevens, in

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks

A.
a)

. from 7 tH Mid-

cee RR

{
large part is due to quarter- Ula
back Harper's receivers. Gary .

Pomeroy gobbles up anything Wher-Rena Marina

that ¢omes near him. Besides
having a good set of hands,
tight end Lin Potts can also
block.

Both freshmen will undoubt

Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

ae

