Sidelines
with

HOWARD BOYD

Assistant Sports Editor
i

(Ed. note: This is the conclusion of ¢ .
tions begun last week.) n of the IMAC predic-

For all you guys who missed getting your name in
the paper last week, here’s vue second half of the IMAC
mid-season pre-season preview. (In all honesty, I did write
this last week, but my boss decided tg run it in two parts
so here it is.) For those of you who are wondering yes
] did receive the American Journalistic Association “Pro.
phet of the Week” award for last week’s article Take that
cynics! Forthwith: ao

League B
Division 1

_ 1. SAE—Third year ago, E’s should be even better
this year, Peyton Prospere and Roy Campbell play pitch
and catch very well, and along with Steve Draper and
Cook Wilson spearhead offense. Bruce Baird and Dave
Weaver are defensive standouts. of all-star caliber. while
Earl McCall is a top soph prospect. Loss of do-it-all Bob
Meadows, team leader, hurt, but more speed and talent,
plus vastly improved defense should propel SAE’s to di-
visional title.

2. Indies—Indies look much improved, with a tough
defense and paced on offense by the accurate arm of Rob
Benton, Versatile Mike Iyrne, veteran Ed Kanoy and
rangy Scott McMichael are two-way performers. Exper-
lenced Mike O'Malley at end and halfback Gerry Bello. the
holler-guy, perform well of offense, while Don Parman
excels on defense. May give E’s a run for the top.

3. KA—KA's should be improved, with more speed
and a better defense. Tailback Steve Williams ranks
among league’s best, while halfback Bob Solberg and
soph John Brandon complete a solid backfield. Wily vet
Charlie Terrell and speedy soph Chris Holly are the ends.
Sammy Fisher is capable defender, as is Daryl Williams.
Frank Smith and Charlie Conklin are other good sophs,
KA’s lack depth to win, but may surprise.

4. Cannon IIl—Disorganization and inexperience spell
disaster for this frosh team, which appears doomed to a
bad season. Kenny Eiler, Henry Barber, Bob Reni, tail-
backs Alan Williams and Bill Todd, Tom Scarritt and Mike
Grizzard are some of top performers. This team will im-
prove game-by-game, but has a long way to go.

5. Sentelle 11—-Much the same ouflook for Sentelle
II as for Cannon II. Simply lack experience and cohesive-
ness. Chris Young and Reggie Harding are tailbacks, Russ
McCloy and Rollie White at ends, while Tim Patton and
Billy Lynn are others who play regularly.

Division Il

1. Sentelle !—-Another good freshman team. with a
chance to win in the IMAC’s weakest league. Tailback
Steve Pembridge, halfback Kevin Brode and Reid Moore,
and ends Larry Horowitz and Bill MacKinnon pace of-
fense. Greg Dunn and Tim Spencer are defensive lead-
ers. The defense has been carrying brunt of the load, but
affense has potential and this is a team to watch.

2. Emanon I—The core of last year’s best frosh team
bolsters returning Pi Kap regulars to form a solid club,
which has a good chance for individual honors. Tailback
Calvin Allen is clever and quick, and halfbacks Robbie
Little and Gary Bressler are fast, all are sophs. Larry
Ruddel and Pat Curley are veteran offensive performers.
Mike Thompson, rusher Clint McCaan, Rick Mack, and
Jimmy Hunter are top defenders.

3. Watts Il-—Largely an unknown quantity, but looks
to be among the better frosh squads. Dwight Plemmons
and Mark Rodgman are the tailbacks with Bob Jacobs at
a halfback. Barry Blakely and Al Zimmerman anchor the
line, while Neil Imus and Mitch Stove platoon on defense.
Lack of depth may hurt this team.

4. SPE’s—Last year’s runner-up were ruined by dis-
sension, but are better than they have shown thus far.
Bill Alexander is forced to play out of position at tail-
back due to Buzz Tarver’s premature retirement. Eddie
Johnston, Dave Tierney, Rick Stansbury, Bob Horton, Hal
Catner and Jeff Graham are others who are playing. SPE §
should improve over the season. but lack of a proven tail-
back and a porous defense paint to a long season. :

5. PAX—The other half of the SPE split, PAX is
equally as bad. Tailback Tom Dover has a strong arm
but lacks speed. Larry Duncan is a capable halfback, and
along with Rob Krebs and Steve Earp forms nucelus of
offense, which has been impotent in early action. On _ the
other hand, ‘the defense is pitiful. Rusher Sam McAliley,
Steve Earp, and John Scandling, a trio of sophs, along
with vets Robert Gates and Sefton Stevens are the best
of the lot of defense.

flickerball season gone, there
are tight races shaping up in
all four divisions.

Through Wednesday, the Phi
Delts, the Kappa Sigs, the
SAE’s, and Sentelle |! held slim
leads in their respective divi-
sions.

The Delts won their only two
encounters diving a very wet
opening two weeks of the year
marred by two days of rain-
outs.

They beat the KA‘s in their
first game, playing a_ strong
second half. End Jim Brown
led the way to the 33-13 triumph,
scoring two touchdowns. A tight
defense helped them to their
second win, a 30-6 rout of the
Pi Kap’s number 1 team.

Cannon |, aided by two for-
feits, is a close second to the
Delts. Besides their wins by for-
feit over Sentelle 11 and Watts
11, they beat the Snus 18-7 and
lost to the Betas 46-7.

The ATO‘s dropped their first
two games, 32-19 to the SAE’s
and 31-12 to the Sigs. But since
those two losses, the Taus have
thumped the PAX 37-6 and Watts
1 34-6. -

The Betas have followed the
same pattern as the ATO’s, los-
ing first to the Indies 25-0 and
then to the Pikas 27-0 before
bouncing back to whip the
SPE’s 50-21 and Cannon I.

At the bottom of League A’s
Division I is Watts 1, which
beat Cannon If 19-6 in its first
outing and has not won since.

The Kappa Sigs and the Pikas
are beth unbeaten in Division
Il. The Sigs began their scason
by romping over the Chis 39-0,
and then beat the ATO's.

The Pikas, after casily beat-
ing the Betas in their first con-
test, shutout the Sigma Nus,
30-0.

Cannon-Watts won its first two
games of the season, beating
Watts I 27-15 and Sentelle II
52-0. But, in Wednesday’s ac-
tion they were nipped by Pi
Kappa Phi II, 7-0.

In that 7-0 defensive struggle

October 1, 1971

Page Nine

BOMBING FOR PAX
PAX Tom Dover eludes an ATO pass rush in IMAC action.

League Contests Shaping Up
As IMAC Flickerball Begins —

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor
With two weeks of the IMAC

with Cannon-Watts, Frank Som
crville scored for the Pi Kaps
early in the game, and the de-
fense held Cannon-Watts the
rest of the way. In other games,
the Pi Kaps number 2 team has
defeated the Sig Eps, 40-7, and
dropped a 47-18 decision to the
SAE's.

The Sigma Nus lost their first
two games to Sentelle I, 25-13,
and to Cannon I before blank-
ing Cannon II, 12-0. Then they
lost to the Pikas.

In League B. the Division I
leader is SAE. The SAE’s have
turned back the ATO’s and Pi
Kappa Phi II.

The Independents are second
in the division, having lost only
to the Sigs. They have beaten
the Betas, the winless SPE's by
a 51-13 score, and Cannon II.

The KA’s had an easy time
in their second game, romping
over the Chis, 60-7, and they
rolled up a big score against
hapless Sentelle II in winning,
45-25. But in their first game
they were defeated by the
Delts.

Cannon II lost to Watts I in
its first game, beat Watts II

(Staff photo by Campbeil)

19-6 in its second game, and
has not won since. They have
dropped games to the Sigma
Nus and the Indies since then.

But Sentelle II has fared
worse than that. That team has
yet to win in four outings, giv-
ing it the worst record in the
IMAC.

The division II leader is Sen-
telle I, which has won over the
Snus, and Sentele II. In its last
outing the team lost a heart
breaker to the Chis, 20-19.

The Pi Kaps number | team
lost its first game to the Delts,
but easliy beat Watts II, 26 6.

The Chis dropped their first
three games to the Sigs, the
KA'’s, and the ATO's before
winning a squeaker over the
division leading Sentelle I team.

Watts II and the Sig Eps are
both winless. The freshmen
have lost to Cannon II, forfeit-
ed to Cannon I, and lost to Pi
Kappa Phi I.

The SPE’s have dropped suc-
cessive games to the Pi Kaps
number 2.team, the Independ-
ents, and the Betas.

Kappa Sigs Take
IMAC Link Title

Led by Bobby Kelley and
Peter Jorgenson, the Kappa
Sigs eked out a victory in the
IMAC golf tourney last Tues-
day.

The Sig team, Kelley, Jorgen-
son, Davis Beaston and Tony
Martin, posted a combined score
of 154.

The SAE’s and Cannon-Watts
tied for second at 157.

A “best ball" method of scor-
ing was employed in the tour-
nament to allow four men to
play for a team.

Under this system, two play-
ers posted a combined score.
Both played out each hole and
the better score was recorded.

The best individual score was
posted by a freshman from

Cannon I, the fourth ranked
team. Richard Anderson shot a
78 to qualify as individual low
score.

Anderson's partner, Bob Reni,
shot an 80 to give them a team
total of 158, one stroke off the
second place tie .

Both of the second place
teams employed four linkers.

The SAE’s team consisted of
Steve Battle, Dave Faison, Carl
Patterson and Nick Livengood.
Mike Parham and Robert Clay-
ton led the tying freshmen.

The remaining scores were:
PDT, 160; BTP, 162; S Il, 168;
PAX, 188; SPE, 195; PKP I,
195; S I, 198, SN, 199.

The KA’s posted only one
score, an 83.
