Che Bavidsoantan

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-

PENING.” —Marshall McLuhan
RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief S
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 14, 1972

Attracting 100 Coeds

Davidson moved one step closer to coeducation this
week with faculty approval of the Educational Policy Com-
mittee’s report on coeducation. While most expected the
faculty to act affirmatively on the issue, many were sur-
prised by the overwhelming support for coeducation re-
flected by the vote Tuesday.

That almost two-thirds of the faculty voted in favor
of the plan demonstrates that body’s willingness to work
toward the coeducational goal. And this ratio might have
been even higher had more of the faculty been present
for the vote.

The faculty deliberated on the issue for over 90 min-
utes, during which time many raised questions central to
the implementation of coeducation, especially in the areas
of finance and housing. Such a rigorous discussion is help.
ful in spotting possible pitfalls which lie ahead.

The faculty has acted with caution yet with needed
dispatch. We commend them for their concern and in-
terest in futhering the movement to coeducation.

The proposal will now be sent to the Trustee Execu-
tive Committee which will review the plan, and then lay
the matter before the entire board at its May 5 meeting.

If the board does indeed approve the proposed plan
for coeducation in May, the real struggle to transform
this theoretical model into actuality will then commence.
The college will begin the campaign to attract up to
100 females for the fall of 72.

Davidson students can be especially helpful in this
effort. Now is the time for students to write any girl they
feel might be interested in transferring to Davidson next
fall. Since students probably know more girls in this cat-
egory than any of the other constituencies of the college,
it is important that they assume the lead in attracting girls
here next fall.

If we are to inaugurate our coeducation experiment on
a significant level next year, it is important that students,
who led the fight for coeducation, now bear the responsi-
bility for helping to implement it.

End Of Registration Circus

No longer will lines of catalogue-clutching students be-
siege first floor Chambers. No longer will department chair-
men shuffle and deal computer cards on the demand of
screaming hoards. And no longer will Richard C. Burts risk
death by trampling every time he opens the doors to the
mob of spirited intellectuals eager to experience the chal-
lenge of three more courses.

In short, the traditional circus known as registration is
finally being eliminated in favor of a system which will
save time and distribute courses on a more equitable basis.

Under the new plan each student will name his prefer-
ences for the courses he would like to take the next term.
These preferences are then fed into the computer which
randomly distributes one course to each senior according to
the listed order of preferences. Juniors, sophomores and
freshmen ‘follow. The computer then goes back and gives
the seniors their second choice; juniors, sophomores and
freshmen receive their second choice and so on.

The most obvious advantage of this system is that it
eliminates the long lines and amount of time consumed by
faculty and administration. It also does away with the un-

fortunate situation where some students try to pressure .

certain department chairmen to break the ceilings on a
course.

Many upperclassmen may argue that they need certain
courses to graduate; consequently they should have iirst
priority on all their courses before underclassmen. Past ex-
perience has shown, however, that seniors often battle for
easy courses with which they hope to pad their gradepoint,
rather than courses, which they really need for their major
or area requirements.

Another advantage to this system is that it provides an
even distribution of courses. Freshmen will now have a wider
selection of classes from which to select so that they will
not get pushed into certain courses simply because these
were the only ones left.

Certainly individual cases will arise where an upper-
classman truly needs a certain course for graduation. In such
cases the Registrar has promised that a procedure will be
established whereby a student can present his case, if
it appears that a certain course is vital to his education the
ceiling on the course will be broken.

We commend and. encourage the Registrar in’ this new
experiment, and we hope students and faculty will cooperate
in the test run of this system in the next few weeks. But we
also hope that this system will remain flexible enough to
meet the needs of all the students here, since that is the
primary purpose of any system of registration.

GRAY WILSON

Delicacies This Spring
Paralyze Will To Study

Of the 800,000 poets (rough es-
timate) who have written on
every subject imaginable, there
are 800,001 poems about spring
since every one of them came
up with at least one ode about
this season while for a fact Rob-
ert Herrick wrote two.’

Yet no one ever wrote a poem
about spring at Davidson, so I
have decided not to waste my
time doing it either, but instead
to relate my own impressions on
the subject in pollinated prose.

Sp: ing at Davidson is a mock-
ery of academic sterility, a
pastoral honors college burgeon-
irg with the 800.000 species of
insects you hear about in a lec-
ture on invertebrate phyla.

The first two terms of the
year are finally redeemed by an
idle green lawn and copper sun
that beg your body to lie down
on a beach towel and soak up
rays, or better yet. go to the
beach.

Spring is one less course to
hassle with. one more hour of
rack, coe more outdoor activity
without a grade attached to it.

Spring is dying for a beer out
at the lake campus, or quaffing
an orangeade at Marvy’s.

It is a time for walking bare-
foot to the post office, watch-
ing the mica in the sidewalk
gleaming up at every step.

Spring is running to an af-
ternoon lab in a rain that makes
the ground wseat with steam.
It is walking to a 9 o’clock class
in gym shorts and a t-shirt
pecked full of holes by birds
screaming overhead.

Spring is a game cf pong on
the patios down at Patterson
Court, with other people wait-
ing for the winner. ft is a flood-
ed cross-coumtry track, a wade
in the creek, or a trip to the
creek au naturel under the
supervision of 20 fraternal fri-
ends.

In spring a Davidson man’s
thoughts turn to summer and
freedom unless it means making
up a F or a trip to Fort Bragg.

The shelves of people and
popcorn that howled in John-
ston Gym for frost-bitten weeks
while it refused to snow for
skiers—they are all gcne now.
The handball courts are free
after 7 p.m., and eddieandisbel
play tennis with phosphorescent
balls for an hour after supper.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

ROTC Debate Continues,

Turner Endorses Bowles

To the Editor:

Apparently several points in
my recor. letter defending the
ROTC program have been mis-
construed. Mark Guyer's letter
reveals the need for caveats.

Mark states that those stu-
dents in ROTC are not, for the
most part, voluntarily enrolled.
If not, they seem to have been
“forced” to enroll to ‘avoid
the draft.”

These students will not meces-
sarily avoid the draft; indeed,
their obligation afier finishing
the program will be as long as
if they had been drafted. And,
pragmatically speaking, it
makes more sense to be drafted
if one wishes to have as little
military service as possible.

I am sure that most s‘udents
omrolled in ROTC are aware of
this; they must make a choice
‘voluntarily. Even if they enmoll
in ROTC and then drop out,
they retain the same draft num-
ber and status. .

And there is reason to be-
lieve that a stand-by draft call-
up will remain in effect when
the all-volunteer army is in.
stituted.

I am not sure how the ROTC
leadership program ‘tends to
overlook the human element in
war.” I am no. even certain
there is a human element in
war.

Tolal war is a devastating,
all-out effort to destroy the
enemy before he can destroy
you. Soldiers know that they are
“‘pawns of war,” that their ef-
forts will decide the outcome
of the war, that their leaders
are trying to find the quickest

and most effective means to
achieve the des:ruction of the
enemy forces.

The generals know that the
soldiers are fighting to protect
the freedoms of their loved
ones; the soldiers are also
aware of this. Total war en-
gulfs everyone.

Men desire a good life on
this world. They form govern-
ments to develop their poten-
tial, and they fight to defend
this right. To fight a war for
such a reason does not mean
that one isn’t meek in heart.

Soldiers fight in wars to pro-
tect their human rights, to live
in freedom.

Soldiers fight to defend thcir
‘life, liberty and pursuit of
happiness.” War is a race
against time, where every lost
second gives the enemy the
time to ‘‘violate”’ somecne's
life, liberty and pursuit of hap-

Ss.

I still don't see why there are
men in prisons ‘‘because their
religion and pursuit of happi-
ness are violated by the murder
of innocent men, women and
children . . .” I don’t even think
it’s likely. ;

Jerry Huller ‘75
Davidson College
To the Editor:

I don’t know whether students
at Davidson are interested in
the Democratic’ gubernatorial
race in North Carolina, but they
Should be. This year for the
first time in many years North
Carolina has the opportunity to
elect a leader. Skipper Bowles
is that man. J] have had a
chance to work with him for a

Spring is the Carolina Cup,
the GGO, the Nationals. It is
a loudspeaker ringing out the
next event at a ttiack meet, a
tennis match with Fat Harry,
a baseball game called be-
cause of a freak snowfall.

You know that it is spring
again when an unmuffled lawn
mower comes past your window
at 8 a.m. on Saturday moming
sounding like a red alert.

Alas, spring is a goat-footed
Cop Linker clomping around
Patterson Court flaying wind-
chields with tickets and then
wiping a crown of sweat from
beneath his black cap.

In just spring you cannot es-
cape these things. It will find
you hiding in a library that
hums with a pack of air con-
ditioners, reading under a hot
lamp in your room, or sitting
bored in front of the tube.

It will come screaming out of
the anthills, sprouting jonquils
between the pages of your fa-
vorite term paper, shading your
petty thoughts with thick-veined
greco leaves the size of a mira-
cle, and you will come cnawl-
ing. aphidlike, out of your. type-
writer.

number of months.

Skipper combines experience
and ability with honesty and
sincerity. He is articulate; he
has great perception as to the
problems and needs of North
Carolina at the present time;
and he has the vision to see the
problems of the future that we
musi start preparing for today.

Skipper has another quality
that. is admirable. He believes
in taking a stand on the issues.
He has said many times that the
day of the old-style, back slapp-
ing politician is over. He feels
that young people have brought
to society an appreciation of
candor in politicians.

He has taken a number of
Stands on issues that will lose
him votes in May — issues that
he could have skirted. And whe-
ther or not you agree with his
Stands, you can respect him for
making them, and you can know
that he really believes what he
Says. '

we.

Bo Phillips has literature de-
lineating Mr. Bowles’ positions
and the newspapers and tele-
vision carry his mews releases
and advertisements. If you will
take the time to find out about
the man I think you will find
that Skippen Bowles is someone
North Carolina students can get
excited about. I am convinced
he can help us go a long way
toward handling today’s prob-
lems and preparing for tomor-
row’s. I believe in him as a
person, and I think you can too,

Jody Turner 72
Raleigh, N. G,
