Che Davidsonian

“THERE tS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAP-
PENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MARCH 17, 1972

Calendar Reconsidered

The proposed calendar for next year, approved by the
Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) last week, was greeted
with an onslaught of student complaints and anguished
outcries. It seems that the FEC, in its efforts to avoid a
split winter term, has created a calendar rent with incon-
veniences.

First of all, students complain that the purposed late
Start, Sept. 21, would waste two weeks. Similar argu-
ments were put forth with regard to the late
commencement date. Competition for summer jobs is
keen, and many employers are accustomed to hiring sum-
mer help in the last weeks of May. Consequently Dav-
idson students would be at a disadvantage in the tight
summer job market.

With only two days off for Thanksgiving, those stu-
dents who lived out-of-state. felt their time at home would
be minimal. and some who lived great distances said that
it would be ridiculous for them even to try to travel home.

And most students could not believe that the FEC
expected them to travel back to school after Christmas
dreak on Jan. 1.

Whilc we understand the teaching difficulties inherent
with a split winter term, we do not feel the situation un-
bearable. In fact many students believe that the split term
allowed them to catch up on their work and in some cases
get ahead. They also feel that the break relieves the de-
Pressed student mood that traditionally accompanies winter
erm.

While no calendar will suit the preferences of everyone,
we feel that this vear's model with the inclusion of the fall
College Conference Recess represents a very desirable plan.
We therefore hope the FEC will reconsider their decision for
next year’s calendar.

Honors College Reform

For most of its two years. the Honors College has been
a mystery to Davidson students. It has been viewed as a
haven for the intellectual elite. a place to get into if you
didn’t like studying. or just plain ignored. Upon investiga-
tion, we have found that the Honors College is not simply
a bastion of intellectual minds oblivious to the outside
world. It has emerged in quite a different light as a mar-
velous educational ‘opportunity for all students. But the
Honors College is in trouble. Far from being a cohesive,
stable fraternity of students and faculty, it is suffering
from internal dissent and outside obstruction.

_ .The problems appear to be threefold. Firstly, the ad-
ministration of the general college seems reluctant to back
the Honors College with the staff it needs. Because of
this lack of staff, the Honors College cannot be expanded
to include more of the general college population. Many
students have been turned down even when they presented
good programs, because the Honors College lacked the staff
with sufficient expertise to advise the student. This has
raised questions and resentment among students inside
and outside the college.

The faculty and staff of the Honors College itself
cannot be absolved of responsibility for the state of the
institution ejther. There is no set admissions procedure,
little publicizing of the program, and a general nebulous
quality to the means and goals of the college.

Thirdly, some general college faculty members are
not accepting the Honors College and discriminate against
Honors College students who take their courses. We view
this as totally inexcusable.

It is no easier to prescribe a cure than it is to define
the. ills. Generally, there seems to be a need for more de-
finition of expectations on the part of the Honors College
faculty and more effort on their part to involve the Honors
Coliege with the general college. The difference between
the departmental honors program and the Honors College
program needs to be clarjfied and a sense of community
among the Honors College members themselves needs to
be fostered. To help involve more students in the program,
the general college needs to be willing to back a full scale
Honors College program, and this will require more part-
time professors.

We feel that the Honors College is a viable and valuable
institution and should be continued. It seems that there
must be better publicity and understanding of the Honors
College, and this can only be brought about with the co-
operation of all who have an interest in it: faculty, stu-
dents and administration. The Honors College is almost
two years old and is not an established: institution by any
means. We hope that the entire college community will
take an interest in the experimental college, and that the
Honors College itself will launch into the task of clearing
up the questions behind its own existence and development.

ALAN BARAGONA

Mott The Wopple’s Exploits:
“The Downfall Of Castle Pinky’

What puzzled us most was
that nobody had noticed them,
these ruins, though they stood
high and ragged in plain view
of daydwellers. Only we of the
afternight, however, had stum-
bled upon them, where they had
lain all these centuries.

It was 4 a.m., that central
hour when everything of import
takes place on the postnight
campus, and I was thumbing
through faded copies of ‘The
Republic’’ and ‘‘Utopia"’ when a
pirate ship appeared on the hori-
zon, a shot rang out. a maid
screamed, and Katamite Kayrat
burst into the room with Senator
Rowland (sic) straggling no: far
behind. However antictamatic,
the two approached the charac-
teristic urgency.

“Thou wilt save the humble
people, O Lord, and wilt bring
down the eyes of the proud!”
the Senator shrieked.

Well, that seemed just to me,
all in all, but I didn’t quite get
the gist of what was going on
and told them, whereupon Kay-
rat explained about the ruins.

He and the Senator had that
night been stalking the elusive
Grimbird, a nocturnal fow] that
oozes grease in flight and can
be caught only with a sieve and
a sponge. In mid-hunt, they had
come upon the crumbled ruins
of a lost civilization, in which
the dreaded Cockasnook had
temporarily nested.

The three of us rushed to the
spot, magnificent in its desola-
tion. The Cockasnook stood
guard above the remains: crum-
bling pillars; broken walkways;
termite-ridden cherrywood fur-
niture: the bulky carcass of an
IBM electric typewriter wrap-
ped in heavy chains and locks:
and a pair of single beds, still
made, as if they had never been
used.

At first we were at a loss to
explain the discovery, and then
the Cockasnook suggested we
find someone who might have
survived the Time of Devasta-
tion. someone, in other words,
who has sat through it all.

Numb Elroy stared dully at
first, trying to call up memories
of the old days. Numb Elroy has
Sat passively a long time at his
vantage point on the campus
fountain and remembers a good
deal about the worlds that have
passed him by. Soon he began
to speak in a sporofic mur-
mur.

“Many years have passed ‘in
the forgotten Kingdom of Da-
voidson since the fall of Castle
Pinky. Lord Pinky Greyskin,
called ‘‘The Helpful” had nand
ed down to his scons a castle
strong in armaments and rich
in soldiery. So formidable vas

the stronghold that the vassals

left off with the old ways, turn
ed to their affairs, and prus-
pered.

But it came to pass that the
progeny of Lord Pinky hegrudz
ed the people their freedom
and sought to chain them by
giving them petty rewards, tun
medals and lollipops, and tw
glean bits of prestige from their
work. In this way, the strength
of the fortress soon became a
fiction.

In the starlit afternight, these
fragments of ancient endeavor
spoke in whispers that gave
credence to Numb Elroy’s story.
Was it indeed possible that a so-
ciety that claimed to-be so ad-
vanced could simply fade out
like that?

As I stood amid the debris,
the 5 o’clock special barreled
through the town with a force
that shook the foundations of
the remains.

A mound of rubble collapsed
to reveal a mote of paper on
which was written, ‘“‘The elite
lifestyle of Castle Pinky is a
romance and roses. existence
never to be forgotten by the in-
habitants of the halcyon days
this side of Paradise!" Nothing
beside remains.

Round the decay of that co-
lossal wreck, boundless and bare
the lone and level sands stretch
far away.

‘Some knew what was happen-
ing, a few of the kerns and even
an earl, but nothing changed.
As the years passed, the people
all but ceased to reproduce: the
old ones died; the rulers ex-
iled the young ones, having
judged them too anemic to
serve the good of the castle and
sentenced them to smother in
the stifling air outside the walls.
Then Southern hagrdes came out
of the desert, bringing the end
in their wake.”

Senator Rowland (Sikh) and
the others were quite taken with
Elroy’s little yarn, though I
couldn't see much .in it beyond
a certain medieval flair. They
all ran off in a frenzy scream-
ing ‘‘Prepare ye the way of the
Lord” and other such earthy
old-time-religion stuff. When
they had disappeared into the
darkness, I returned to the ru-
ins.

outside
perspective

By LEX VEAZEY

So tatpes lap ced : tects BS ct sy et RENO oe CIS ae BB a acta up IME yt biraeen yey ct bests 4.
CA LUGE 6 ARBRE KOS RON EAB A SR I RNY OPTS TS RORY Giese Sen Bi Rat ABS RON a tii

“Reluctant” Students Don’t Belong in College

Colleges and universities should be relieved of respon-
sibility for “reluctant” students who enroll because they
have nothing better to do, says Alan Pifer, president of the
Carnegie Corporation of New York. Speaking recently in
his foundation’s annual report, Pifer said that trying to
serve such students is ‘clearly at odds with many of higher
education’s other functions.”

Calling on the nation to create new job opportunities
and new low-cost ‘national service’ programs that would
appeal to those students. Pifer admitted that there would
be problems in creating these jobs and programs to be in
lieu of the college experience. He commented that the new
programs would have to be at least as productive to so-
ciety, as useful to the individual and no more costly than
going to college.

Army ROTC Goes Coed.

The United States Army has decided to admit women
to its Reserve Officer Training Corps programs. “A test
program will begin this fall with women enrolling in ap-
proximately 10 institutions currently offering the four-
year ROTC program,” an Army spokesman stated. It was
only a few weeks ago that the Navy ROTC made the deci-
sion to go coed. The Air Force has admitted women in its
ROTC programs for two years.

Ole Miss Coaliton Wants Coke Boycott

The Coalition for Progress at Mississippi State Univer-
sity has recommended that students boycott the campus
Coca-Cola machines. According to Coalition leader John
Gautier, the boycott is to protest the use of disposable hot-
tles by the Coca-Cola Company. Stating that the bottles cre-
ate ‘a problem of ecology,” Gautier feels that they are
the major source litter on the Ole Miss campus.

Gautier declared that the Coke boycott was not for the
purpose of intentionally hurting the company, but only to
emphasize the need for cutting down on the amount of
campus litter. He urged that the students discontinue use
of the machine until the Coca-Cola Company installs re-
turnable bottles.

Seren ae
ie sbar

Yale Introduces Tuition Pay Postponement

A total of 1,257 Yale students have signed contracts
under the new Tuition Postponement Option which per-
mits them to finance the cost of their education after grad-
uation. This plan has caused widespreal interest in the edu-
cational community. Over 120 colleges and universities
have contacted Yale to learn more about the Tuition Post-
ponement Option. ;

According to the Yale plan, each individual’s obliga-
tion rises and falls with his income rather than being a
fixed indebtedness. Each group of students leaving Yale
will have their obligations terminated when the group as a
whole has repaid its amount postponed with interest.
