Davidson Honors ‘Cop’ Linker
After 3 Decades Of Service

By VAL VAN HORN
Staff Writer

For 33 years, a quiet, sharp-witted man
guarded Davidson College. In the ‘60's,
students feared his discovery of their week-
end ‘stalled cars" on the soccer field, and
more recently students avoided his parking
tickets.

Admired by those who came in contact with
him, Edgar N. ‘‘Cop” Linker is being honored
this Homecoming by a dinner and dance in
appreciation for his services.

Linker retired this July, but is fondly
remembered. Alumni Calvin Wicker recalls,
‘‘He was very dedicated. He always gave
good advice to the students, always talked to
them.

‘What was unusual about him was that he
remembered the professors when they were
students here,"’ Wicker continued. ‘‘Cop was
a link between the faculty and the students."

Other alumni have remembrances not so
reverent. Responses to the *‘! Remember
Cop” contest included one from Lyman Kiser,
student president of 1953.

Kiser wrote of his freshman Homecoming
Week-End when Linker caught he and his
date parked on the football practice field.

Recalling the incident, Kiser can still pic-
ture the ‘‘lipstick smeared and scared fresh-
man" when Linker's gruff voice rumbled,
‘Let's call it a night."

Another entry of which the writer prefers to
remain anonymous chuckled about how he
and two friends returned from a week-end
spree in Charlotte.

Linker's good humor was a help for his
week-end duties. At one time he remarked,
“It looks like they have planted all these
bushes around the campus just for the guys
that don't have cars."

The sight of Linker cruising the Davidson
campus in his pick-up was one the students
avoided on week-ends.

Linker himself was embarrassed to walk up
to parked cars, though he admitted he “‘got a
kick out of catching the boys he knew real
well.”

‘Freshmen, of course, are the ones you got
the most kicks out of."’ he said. **You had to
tell them we don't allow mixed car parties
and sometimes they'd ask, ‘Well. where can
we park?””

Cop Linker did more than give triendly ad-
vice and good-natured law enforcement. In
1954. Linker copied down the license number
of an untamiliar car parked on campus.

It was his clue that lead to the apprehension
of a Decatur. Georgia. citizen who had killed
one policeman, wounded another and robbed
college students of hundreds of dollars. For
his action Linker was honored in a_ public
ceremony

Linker said that one can't expect 1000 bovs
not to be doing something out of line once Ina
while. but he does belheve that in general
student) conduct) has) deteriorated within
recent vears. He attributes most of this to the
tailure of the student government to entorce
its rules

Cop Linker will be honored. in addition to
this vear’s Homecoming. by a collection of
recollections of him by the students. The book
is in the process of being compiled by Zack
Long of the alumni ottice

Now that he is retired. Cop Linker works in
his garden and with his bees. and is president

of the Men's Bible class at the Davidson

The Davidsonian October 27,1972 Page Three

