x

HOWARD RAMAGLI

The Davidsonian April 7. 1972 Page Nine
CC rr
s lenorea by College
4 . EY

Like Tom Sawyer and kis this college was more jzxterest- vho ‘ more in tune with the society. dents who could return to Da-
friends. Davidson College and- — ed in making its students aware Tras op -  hkbey Gua laet Dav? vidson t& a mot be reurning.
its constituents are very suc- of a culture half-way round the 1 cots » on will do this. One That :s a teiling story of David-
-ossful at whitewashing. They world, while it neglected a cul .adent de cribed the si'- son's 1. al lack of “4 a eneés
ine able to give just about every ture that Was within its own Aa iS Way ‘-iy'~ lke stand aif coneeth fcr these students.
gudent and his values a nice city limits. ’ adn. - 4 a Stich of dynamiie ' Perhaps tie best thing David

thick coating of white middle The needs of Dav.dion's black

slass America. But this effec-
ive whitewash is not taking too
sell on a certain portion of the
udent population.

minority students have been ap-
parently purposely neglectcd.
No one has asked :hem if their
social needs were wanting. No

» ds. , .comi

sighted fuse aid being

-' 9 Pat oud the fuse.”
be at. averenag gera-
- Sftvaben since at

sat can do is get its head out of

' ils proverbra! rearend and rea).

ize tha; there are lurman beings
in this world Gher chan white

ant consider i half of the black stu- human beings.
Davidson's 15 black students one has asked them if it would setting us c- Inek fit eqn
tre refusing to be whitewash- help if there were a black man erature, Loc. 4 black LPT TERS

rd. I found this and much more in a position of Power. No one
shout each of these individuals has asked them if black profes.

®
way cutriculem. uC sun needs a 4 ( ; } , J } } Pol
ust week. I spent somewnere in sors might be able to help them mo, rcerore th- cou: ses i nA Cy
aA &

art that wii! de f tne reg: oa a oe)

the vicinity of an hour in talk- more at a time when they might and irseee | contain

ing with each of these students. "eed a little counseling. black contr | history so 7 he @ 5
Whet.i learned about being From the time these men set varlical. rn Sel ey rey fi aA

oo. . foot on this campus, they are . ‘ acd ck & ¥ BY

yiack in America could never be » they And Ir Dew. st, -usly VS ew AES

earned ia a class on race rela- turned loose by the admissions consider {t-« ins, “hey 3

fons taught by a white profes- prope and promptly forgotten. won ve as Editor: ams

lor. ey are left without counsel, ified lec! ie terch -at} (March 24. head. Acc. de:.al disclusure is a far

without help, and without a thece cou Ses

| Learning of Davidson’s treat-
ent of these individuals as El-
ison’s Invisible Man, shocked
e. A guess that is sort of a
aivete one has about an jntel-
lectual atmosphere. You expect
ome awareness of bla¢ékness by
he students here, and you find
hey have less than some of the
igh school kids in Charlotte.

1. 3s also surprising to realize
ngt at the height of the civil
re-'s Movement. a small liker-
i arts college was more con-
‘ened about South Asia stud.

~ than black studies. That:

a

outs

semblance of understanding of
what they will go through in
the following months.
Davidscn’s total awareness «|
the black culture may welt ™
on the point of a pin. It’s awate-
ress that is not aware is ever.
less. The best illustration I cat.
think of for this. is the Vinnie
Burrows presentation co black
awareness, which was attended
by more students from Jonnson
C. Smith than from Davidson.
Times may change even Da-
vidson. The admissions offiee.
through the work of a recruiter

a i > eh od

Cosaimg Prompts New
, Ruicwi grossly. misinter-
. t.xecir yu Committee's
"> WW vrequesting Dean
vork ou’ the program
d in the s ory.
.1 Vel d Ssunse was cheai-
I concern. By far the
: pel coneet i was to mini-
bo * tne likelinood thai a stu-
* + ld aeeidentally give
wa. student an unfair ad-
rage on @N cavum.
f. pet the problem in per-
s-eilve;- Ik may interes: your
ders to linow that many
veais with a much locger tra-
wiop cl sel& ch:duled exams
wn. Davidson s (4 consider it
sessary befote each exam p-
d to meun a serious educa-
pail caayvaign to remind stu-
r '$ of che rish ci careless. ac-
detiel  beans.:t) of informa-

Giffercm. ‘hing from cheating.
lt caacs no reflection cn the dis.
cieser's imteg ity. I regret very
mach tha; so pejoraiive a term
as chenuunrg ever cricred this
cuscuesion.

Locke White

Davidson College

Fo the Editor:

hl. someone could please let
me know why J should spend S4
a week next vear to have my
laundry done. I sure would ap.
preeiate it.

Every time I] go into the Jaun-
dry there is someone _ sitting
aTound knitting a sweater or C.
W. Stacks is joking around with
one of the work-study students.
Sitting around is O.K. with me.
but noi at Sta week.

Why don’t they jus: ge: rid of
the laundry and let everyone

have the picasure of gettirg

Av Hevellord, . ose program away irom campus to do their
Iss... 1... catepaian ts ownt' TI. makes me sick to think

1s the.n equivalent of our of was*ing so much money when

/  ‘v_ Cemmitice, Fhope that ‘| eld be buying books ca the

perspective -

ed Schools Move Toward Fast Doctors

These ate {- fn 3 Og. ies students will waat 710 natuta! existence or €iving it to
.\lmost a third of the country’s medical schools have = san nerds tou: . bit ca im tative in ensuping tha: Planned Parenthood. |
lopied programs that allow students to earn their M1). ire-cared bine) eva We L cnus have the same ad- Jim Jernigan ‘75
gree in less than the usual four years. Manv other mcd is what it neces te Cc. be ‘inforniation abou our ex- Davidson College

hools are considering programs that would cut theii
‘ograms to three or.three and a half years.

Various sources have stimulated the medical schools
produce doctors more quickly. Several national organi
lions have recommended a reduction in the training time.
ew federal legislation has promised financial premiums to
edical schools that produce doctors faster.

Many medical educators feel that training programs
iould not be prescribed uniformly for all students. Since
me students enter medical school much more prepared
an others and since some students learn much fasier than
hers, these educators have recommended that the M.D.
gree be made more flexible.

olleges Abolish Requirements .

_ Several colleges have abolished course requirements
r graduation. Ursuline College has dropped all course
quirements except one interdisciplinary course per se-
ester. Regis College in Massachusetts has abolished speci.
C course requirements for the bachelor’s degree. York
niversity has decided to offer a degree program that re-
ires no major and for which only one-third of a student's
ork-load must consist of regular courses. The rest may be

hdividual projects.

ob Offers For Graduates Trail ‘71 Pace

- In a survey of 139 representative colleges and univer-
lies. the College Placement Council has found that job
{fers at the bachelor’s level are four per cent lower than
this point in 1971. The same survey points to a brighter
itlook. for -holders of advanced degrees. Job offers are 36
er-cent ahead of last year’s pace at the doctoral level and
8 per cent ahead at the master’s level.

Nichigan Ends Coed Rooms

Twenty-nine University of Michigan students have:
hded a three-week experiment in living with roommates
[ the opposite sex: Residents of the off-campus house had
egun the experiment to find ways to break down barri-
rs between the sexes. They complained that the publicity
he expriment had drawn was unbearable.

