The Bavidsontan

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS
THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT !S HAP-
PENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 21, 1972

The Hot Potato

The Comprehensive fee has become quite a hot potato
in the administration these days. Responsibility for the crea-
tion of the fee as well as its implementation has been toss-
ed from one office to another with no one really under-
standing what it is. But whatever it is most administrators
don’t want to be left holding it.

First mention of the fee arrived in student’s home
mailboxes just before the beginning of fall classes. Since
the lettc: was signed by Vice President for Finance and
Development C. David Cornell, he became the primary
target for student complaints.

The Student Government drafted a list of indictments
of the system and presented them to the President, who in
turn tossed the issue to his vice presidents to work out
with students. A meeting was held, and grievences aired.
Hoping that the issue might cool off, the administration
did not respond.

When pressed by students for an answer before Christ-
mas, Cornell said Bevan would write a report on the meet-
ing. And in typical administrative fashion Bevan respond-
ed by saying that Cornell would write the report since
it was a business issue.

About this time Cornell realized that student opposi-
tion to the fee was overwhelming, so he let it be known
that he was not adament on the issue and that it was Bev-
an’s idea in the first place. Sources in the business office
supported their boss by saying the business office wasn’t
really in favor of the idea anyway.

Dean Terry watched with amusement as the vice pre-
sidents, tossed the comprehensive fee to each until he look-
ed down and found it lying in his lap. The business office
informed him that he would decide the exceptions to the
fee. Lucky Will.

The game has moved so swiftly in the past three davs
with the vice presidents saying the president would make
the final decision and the president saying the vice presi-
dents would make the decision and Will Terry begging
for mercy.

To confuse matters even further the Student Life
Committee jumped into the act, thus placing faculty sup-
port behind student efforts to modify the fee. What
strange bedfellows!

If anyone finds the comprehensive fee sizzling on the
ground, just throw it back on first floor Chambers and
see if vou can follow it.

Reflections Of Editorship

Since our year’s editorial experience on THE DAVID-
SONIAN concludes with this issue, it would be of value
to reflect on our experience and our thoughts as the editor-
ship of this paper.

We began our editorship full of the zest and idealism
characteristic of newly-elected officials, committing our-
selves to improving the quality of life and education at
Davidson through objective reporting, stimulating fea-
‘ures, and insightful editorials.

_ In most ways, of course, we were thoroughly disap-
pointed, if not dissillusioned. The administration has vir-
tually ignored our pleas for coeducation, our criticisms
of the comprehensive fee, our requests for a drastically
improved social system, and our comments concerning the
demolition of the Union.

Educational progress has been lacking, the Honors
College falls far short of its potential, Extended Studies
and the coed exchange are unsuccessful, and all too often
the theories of the classroom are left untested and unap
plied in experiences beyond the walls of the college.

Students, too, have ignored many of our efforts, and
have clung to such escape routes as apathy, senseless
criticism, or dull acquiescense rather than asserting their
rights and working toward a college that is both respon-
sive and responsible to their social and educational needs.

_ There are, however, several very hopeful signs on the
horizon for Davidson. If students, faculty, and administra-
tion begin working positively together, such programs as
Career Service, Extended Studies, Junior Year Abroad,
and the Honors College could be made into facilities for
a real educational experience.

Yet for all these improvements, one real need ranks
ahead of all others—coeducation. Davidson potentially
has a bright future, but only if it responds very soon
to the urgent problem of coeducation.

If we have any parting thought, let it be this. David-
son, go coed, make this need your first priority. Don’t
let the world pass you by.

BOBBY ALLEN

TV. Taxes, Football Cheer

Complaining Convalescent

lis dav number 16. Sixteen
days of Lord knows how many
I'll be spending in bed. You see,
1 was stricken down by that
most dread disease of Young
America, mononucleosis.

Cut down in my prime with
not even slender volume of po-
etry or my Great American
Novel set down for posterity. All
I can do is alternately sweat
and freeze, heave at the thought
of food, reconsider my stand on
euthanasia, and dumbly absorb
day-time television.

I knew [ had hit rock bottom
when I discovered one after-
nocn that I had been watching
one soap opera long enough to
distinguish two characters and
their respective situations. (One
was a girl who waited until she
was on the operating table and
about to go under the anesthe-
sia to decide, ‘I want to have
this baby!” The other was this
housewife who kept shouting at
her kid for wearing her blue

skirt instead of her red one.
Her doctor-husband | suspects
brain-tumor. I suggest prefontal
lobotomy.

I mentally slapped myself and
with great effort managed to
pull myself together long enough
to find the market section of
the Observer and discover that
Comsat had dropped another %.
I knew then that I was back
in the world of reality.

Things were also pretty bad
when I found myself pulling for
a specific contestant on a game
show. He was a 55-year old New
York cab driver who was try-
ing to get enough money to buy
his own cab. “It restores your
faith in America,’ I said delir-
iously to my _ stuffed rat, “to
think that a hardworking cab-
bie can come on a quiz show
and go home with the $30,000 he
needs for his own cab!”

My cabbie did not win his
$30,000 or any cash at all. He
did win a set of golf clubs, a

snowmobile, a regulation pool-
table, a trip to Rome = and
enough capital gains to put him
in another tax bracket.

But even in weakness is pow-
er. One afternoon I happened
to catch Davidson’s own Dave
Fagg chattting and smiling with
Ty Boyd about the future of
Davidson football.

Boyd (smiling): ‘‘Coach, what
about the talk of de-emphasis
of athletics, particularly foot-
ball, at Davidson?” Fagg smil-
ing): “Ty, Ty, we're going to
play football at Davidson for-
ever!”

But Coach, what if Richard-
son Stadium collapses from the
guests of wind whipping over
empty seats? What if Appalach-
ian and the other gridiron pow-
rs of the Southern Conference
refuse to book us?

What if someone with infec-
tious monucleosis sneaks around
at night and kisses the entire
team’? What then, Coach

Philistine Audience Greets

Haunting Premier Of ‘Ghosts’

A REVIEW

By MARK BROWN
Staff Writer

We are all haunted, at least
at times, by the specters — of
worn-out social! conventions and
artificially restrictive mores
which we inherit from our lov
ing progenitors.

The Greek Crama easily ex
plained these impositions as the
handiwork of the Fates, but the
scientific developments in late
nineteenth century Europe con
founded the traditional answers
with new questions of heredity.

The problems of this more
complex inheritance. combining
our biological and cultural lega
cies, and their often tragic ef-
forts on the exercise of human
brought to life
by the characters in Henrik
Ibsen's “Ghosts,” the current
offering by the Davidson Col-
lege Department of Drama and
Speech.

The play opened to a_phili-
stine, though honefully not typi
cal, student audience Wednes
day night in Hodson Hall. But
a review of the audience, which
often laughed at the wrong
places, provides an inaccurate
guage fer judging the work of
the piavers themselves. So to
the play.

Rupert Barber directs the
five-member cast which includes
Mrs. Ellen Winkler as Mrs. Al
wing, the widow whose mis
placed sense of duty has re
sulted in a life of useless sacri
fice: Verry Hirst as her son
Osvaic:; Robert Wright as Pas
tor Manders: George Draughon,
Jr. as Jakob Engstrand: and
Jennet Robinson as Regina Eng-
strand,

Wednesday night's initial
scene began on rather precari
ous footing with Miss Robinson
and Draughon treading a tight
rope stage unsurely searching
for their parts.

But fortunately the mechani
cal animation and uneasy dia

freedom = are

logue faded as all the charact
ers came into play and the dra
matic movement of the action
carried them to a powerful, if
not altogether convincing, cli
max.

Mrs. Winkler’s portraval of
Mrs. Alwing does not consistent
ly reveal the tension and suf
fering of the widow.

But when she does succeed,
controlling an emotional ex
change with Pastor Manders.
trembling on the threshold of
tears, and finally in the passion
ate outburst of the final scene
with her doomed son, she
erases your memory of her oc-
casional lapses.

Terry Hirst, seemingly too
nonchalant at times, does create
wn Osvald who simply cannot

understand or cope with his

downfall.
For Davidson

ulans,

theater reg
perhaps a_ bit
too much of the “‘shrew" in Re
gina, however Jennet Robinson
dees provide a believable con-
trast to Mrs. Alwing. Regina is
determined to defy the ‘ghosts”
of the past and live her own life.

It may be in George Draugh-
on’s final mastery of Jakob Eng
strand that we find a key to
overcome the ‘“‘ghosts’’ which
Unlike Regina. who
asserts her freedom without
much cxperience of life's harsh
consequences, Jakob comes
through as a man who has felt
ihe power of the specters, borne
their burdens, yet ultimately is
prepared to carry on.

there is

haunt. us.

(Staff Photo by Bill Barnes)
A DOMESTIC TRAGEDY ;
Ellen Winkler and Terry Hirst are haunted in “Ghosts.”
