Page Six January 26,1973 @he Bavidsonian

Clark Explains Need For Compassion

By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

Poverty as the root of crime and compassion as the preventative
of crime were themes which Ramsey Clark pounded in his two
speeches here as part of the three-day corrections symposium.

Clark's first lecture, delivered Monday night in’ Love
Auditorium, examined crime as a phenomena. “Out of the total
range of things people do that hurt other people.” said Clark, ‘what
we call crime covers only a few of these.

‘Most people don't think of embezzlement or price-fixing when
they think of crime. but the electric company price-tixing during
the fifties diverted more money into private pockets than all of the
burglaries and armed robberies in the same year.” Clark said.

Clark then used examples from his tour of the Watts ghetto to
support his thesis that “‘poverty is the mother of crime.” He cited
unemployment. poor transportation. poor health care. over-
crowded schools, and intolerable housing as causes of mental
stagnation and despair which led to crime.

‘There are people living there who have never been in a room by
themselves.” said Clark. “Imagine what that would do to your
psychological development.

**How do you expect people to find a job when it takes a two anda
half hour bus ride costing 95 cents to get to any place where you
could find work available?’ asked Clark.

After showing what an environment like Watts can do to a per-
son's development. Clark pointed out the need to screen inmates to
determine if they are mentally deficient. “I believe that 25 percent
of the people in prison are mentally retarded.” said Clark

In Tuesday's speech aimed at corrections, Clark reiterated the
point that. ‘We must recognize the humanity of prisoners before
we can address the problems.”

Clark cited some of the absurdities in the prison system such as
teaching men to make license plates. The only place a man could
find a job making license plates is in another prison.

Quoting Dostoevski, a prisoner himself. Clark said, “The cruelest
punishment that can be given to a person is to make him work hard
at a meaningless job.

“Our prisons manufacture crime,” said Clark. “Eighty percent
of the people who commit serious crimes have been in prison
before.

‘We have more addicts walking out of jails and prisons than we
have walking in,’ Clark continued.

Clark pointed to the need for better efforts at helping prisoners
stay outside once they have been released saying. ‘When you leave
Attica prison, you get a suit and fifty dollars.”

When asked at the end of the speech for some ways that people
could help the situation, Clark said, ‘‘We need a lot more people
who will work with the professional and non-professional custody
people and the inmates."

Clark continued this thought at a news conference in the
Morrison Room at 11 a.m. on Tuesday saying, ‘We must recognize
the need to make the police force a service organization rather than
a para-military organization.”

Clark had earlier cited an example of eighteen New York City
policemen who had been specially trained to handle family crisis
situations. They were able to reconcile differences instead of just
giving a lecture or taking someone off to jail.

“The necessity for this type of police training.”’ said Clark, ‘‘is
shown by the fact that 85 percent of the people that are murdered
are killed by their family or friends."

CLARK MEETS DAVIDSON

(Staff photo by Porter)

Ramsey Clark discusses corrections with interested listeners.

Workshops Offer New Views

Of Correctional Institutions

By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

The Symposium on Correc-
tions ended Wednesday with
four workshops held in the
College Union.

According to Peter Sterling,
assistant director of the College
Union, the major purpose in

holding the workshops was “‘to
have a real dialogue about what
is wrong with the corrections
system and what is needed to
correct it.

“The idea was to get the par-
ticipants involved in the
dialogue, to make the _par-
ticipants and the participation
important,” he said.

Inmate Or ‘Man On The Street’

By BETSY ALEXANDER

know its beautiful, but you can’t
Staff Writer

explain why its beautiful.
Prison life is miserable. The

Asking the inmate of a correc- physical aspects, being
tions institution to tell you deprived of your family. The
“‘what it’s like’ is rather like loneliness is tremendous.
asking your older brother 7 , a d
‘What's college like?”” You ask You're living under

pressure, in a world of fear. Not

him a lot of questions, which he from the inmates: from the of-

answers, but you can never

really understand what college
life is like until you have ex-
perienced it yourself. All your
questions turn out to be rather
pointless.

Limuel ‘‘Donut’’ Thomas is
40 years old, a_ pleasant,
afable gentleman, bald, beard-
ed. and benign. He is also an
inmate at the McLeansville
prison unit, convicted of assault
with a deadly weapon.

Since age thirteen, Limuel
has been in a home for
jueveniles, local jails, state
penitentiaries, and federal
prisons. He is currently at
McLeansville on a study release
program learning welding and
auto mechanics.

What is prison life like? ‘‘It’s
like a sunset. You see it, you

ficers. Everything is conducted
to making you conform, under
pressure. You break rules unin-
tentionally. Something you say
that a guard happens to hear
can be a major infraction. You
live in fear of a major in-
fraction.

‘“‘No matter what the com-
missioner says, that is the
prison system; that last man at
the bottom of the pole. He's the
one you see. I don't ever see the
commissioner or the superin-
tendent. It’s that last man.”

Donut had completed his tenth'
grade education when he en-
tered prison. He took the GED
for the equivalent of a high
school education. Ten years ago
he began the Work Release

program, the first in his unit. In
1971, he was the first to begin
the study release program at
vocational school. He finished
the first quarter with a 4.0
average.

“I’m a guinea pig,” said
Donut, ‘‘I don't know if they
know it, but I know it. I'm under
pressure. They want to see if I
can cope.”

Home is Greensboro, family,
his mother.

The study release project is
carried out at the inmate's
initiative. ‘‘For study release,
you tell them you're interested
in it, the reasons why, work out
transportation, pay for the
courses.”

Some of the things “they”,
teach you are useful for when
you become a ‘man on the
streets.’ “Life is regimented in
the streets,’ said Donut,
‘‘Whether you know it or not.”

Three things he learned at the
reform school: ‘how to hate,
how to make keys to open locks,

and how to hit a man where it
hurts the most. And,"' he added,
“how to play football. I could've
been pretty good at football, if it
hadn't been for my temper.”

He learned that a newspaper
could not use his name or print
his picture without his written
consent.

He learned that might means
right from the guards who at-
tended him, from the way that
they enforced the rules.

“The root of the problem is
the way the man gets along with
the last man on the pole. The
federal peniteniaries tried.
They had programs back in
1950. But the personnel hadn't
changed. A lot of reforms fail.

‘You have to take two things
into consideration: the man is
a loser; the man helping him is
a winner. There has to be some
sense of identity between the
winner and the loser.”’

By July, Mr. Limuel Thomas
will be a “‘man on the streets."
Perhaps this time he won't be
one of the 80 percent who
come back.”

Participants in the workshops
included prison’ inmates,
juvenile offenders, Davidson
students, people from the com-
munity, and_ professional
corrections people.

Some of the professional
corrections people came as par-
ticipants in the workshops, not
as directors. One = such in-
dividual was the warden of Cen-
tral Prison in Raleigh.

The presence of such men in
the workships allowed the other
participants a chance for a
direct insight into the correc-
tional systems of the country.

By participating in
workshops in which such aspec-
ts of correctional systems as the
use of psychodrama were
discussed, the college and com-
munity had a chance to gain a
better understanding of the en-
lire correctional system, its
shortcomings, and its
strengths.

Although pleased with the
positive response with which
the North Carolina Department
ol Corrections greeted the Sym-
posium, Sterling was not
pleased with the response of the
students.

“Twas very disappointed with
the turnout of students for the
Symposium, especially for the
workshops.

“T dowt know what the reason
is. we certainly did everything
we could in publicity and plan-
ning,” he'said.
