Entertainment

‘‘What The Butler Saw,” a satire by Joe Orton, will be presented
by the Little Theatre of Charlotte for a run of seven performances.
The plot of ‘‘What The Butler Saw” investigates the comic sequen-
ces of a man’s belief that the best way to interview a girl for a job is

to seduce her.

In the play, the lady is agreeable but the complications which in-
terfere with the simple seduction are multiple and hilarious.

After an aroused wife, a recalcitrant bellhop, a hospital inspector
and a policeman become involved, the loose ends of the plot are tied
up by an unexpected twist in the vein of “The Importance of Being

Performances will be next Thursday, Friday and Saturday at

8:15 p.m. The box office opens for reservations on Monday, and
tickets are $4 for adults and $2 for students under 21.

A collection of silkscreens and etchings by Lucius DuBose, a
professor of art at Peabody College in Nashville, Tenn., will be
on display in Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum of Art. Prominent in
the collection is DuBose’s series of exotic American birds. The
opening and reception for the artist will be on Sunday from 2-5 p.m.

Barbara Loudine’s one-woman show of paintings continues to be
on display at the Mint Museum.

The Ice Capades will perform two shows Saturday and Sunday in
the Charlotte Coliseum at 2 and 6 p.m. Tickets are. from $2.50 - $4.50
-- a small price to pay for two hours of slippery fun.

The collection of prints, drawings and paintings by Stephen White
remains on display at the Mint Museum. Best known for his wood-
cuts protraying the Amish peoples of the Midwestern United States,
White concentrates on the depiction of the individual character and
personality.

HUGH MOORE

The Davidsonian

November 2, 1973

Seven

Pornography Rulings Allow
Community Judicial Biases

Last week a ninth grade
teacher was arrested for trying
to teach Kurt Vonnegut’s novel,
“Slaughterhouse Five’’ in his
English class. He was charged
with distributing pornography
to children.

Also last week four justices of
the Supreme Court complained
about the vagueness of the
Court’s obscenity rulings last
June. “Every author, every
bookseller, every movie
exhibitor, and perhaps, every
librarian is now at the mercy of
the local police force’s con-
ception of what appeals to the
prurient interest or is patiently
offensive,”’ Justice William O.
Douglas said.

This week an advertisement
in an area newspaper claimed
that ‘‘this is the one ‘R’ rated
movie parents should i
their teenage children with
them to see.’’ The
management’s recommendati-
on was_ based on the movie’s

Walking Tall’

Now playing at the State Theater in
Mooresville is the picture ‘‘all America is ap-
plauding”’, ‘‘Walking Tall”’.

Starring Joe Don (Billy Jack) Baker,
Elizabeth Hartman, and a host of mediocre
character actors (Noah Beery, Rosemary Mur-
phy, et al.), ‘Walking Tall” is perhaps the
most poisoned, sadistic movie ever made for
the general public.

y, the story is based on the career
of one Buford Pusser, ex-wrestler - turned
sheriff of McNairy County, Tenn., who
systematically cleans up vice and crime in the
area.

The plot is innocent enough, but how Buford
accomplishes his feat, and the enthusiasm with
which audiences applaud his efforts is a sad in-
dictment of the blood-lust of the average
American.

In succession Buford is beaten, flayed, shot
(twice) and stabbed, all in glorious technicolor.
Being a good Christian, he retaliates by

beating, shooting and tinaily running down the
villains.

In short, ‘Walking Tall’’ is a wretched
glorification of the maxim that sadism,
vengeance and bloodshed are as American as
cherry pie.

The performances are on the same level as
the mentality of this movie. Joe Don Baker
plays the role of lawful berserker with about as
much character as the massive club he carries,
while Elizabeth Hartman as Mrs. Pusser, per-
fectly complements Baker’s performance.

Phil Karlson’s direction is devoid of any
distinction, as is Walter Scharf’s score.

There are some beautiful shots of the West
Tennessee countryside, but these are obscured
by the blood. One can’t help feling that the
special effects were done by a butcher.

The real crime about ‘Walking Tall’’ is that
it is only rated ‘‘R’’. Such a bloody monstrosity
should be rated ‘‘G’’. That way no one would
pay good money to see it.

By PETE CELENTANO

‘Siddhartha’

Adapted from the novel by Hermann Hesse,
“Siddhartha” is a feast for the senses. It is in
fact one of the most visually beautiful films
I've ever seen.

Cameraman Sven ‘(Cries and Whispers”’)
Nykvist composes every shot as an individual
portrait, perfectly conveying the timeless
quality of the Indian landscape. It is Nykvist
who is the star of “Siddhartha”; it is his

masterpiece.

The story faithfully, or rather slavishly,
follows Hesse’s novel.

A young man, tired of a life he considers to be
withoug meaning, begs his father for per-
mission to go into the world and seek Truth.

For three years he stays with the Sadhus, or
Holy Men, performing their brand of
asceticism and smoking hashish in order to
achieve Nirvana.

One day he and his friend Govinda find the
Buddha, and hear his teaching. Govinda
becomes a disciple, but Siddhartha is not con-
vinced.

He and Govinda part, the one following the
Buddha, the other forsaking the ascetic life for
the city to learn of love under the tutelage of the
courtesan Kemala.

Siddhartha’s journey ends with his leaving the
city and working as an apprentice to an old
boatman. It is there, by the eternally flowing
river, that Siddhartha finds peace.

As stated previously, it is the camera which
sets the mood of this film. Director Conrad
Rooks is a disciple of Ingmar Bergman, using
the camera as the primary speaker.

Indian actor Shashi Kapoor does an
adequate, if somewhat pretentious job as Sid-
dhartha, but again it is the timeless Indian
countryside, caught by Nykvist’s camera,
which steals the show (promoting one reviewer
to comment that “‘Siddhartha’’ seemed to be a
commercial, albeit an extraordinary one, for
Air India.)

The music, sung by renowned Gouripasanni,
is extraordinary. The only serious flaw in ‘‘Sid-
dhartha’”’ is in its amateurish editing. In some
instances this flaw was bad enough to make the
scene incomprehensible.

Despite this the film still is close to being a
classic. If you enjoy exotic music, if you are in-
terested in Indian culture; even if you have a
free afternoon or evening, don’t miss “‘Sid-
dhartha’’.

By PETE CELENTANO

law and order theme.

These three items, dissimilar
as they are, together illustrate
the current widespread con-
fusion over the enforcement of
obscenity guidelines.

The Supreme Court’s June
decisions only made matters
worse. According to the court,
obscene material is not only
that which is utterly without
redeeming social value. but
also that which the community
believes to be obscene at a
particular time.

Thus ‘Playboy’’ does not
have to be declared obscene in
New York City before it can be
banned in Smalltown,
Mississippi.

By the same token, a movie
with a law and order theme but
an “R’’ rating, might not ap-
pear obscene to the natives of
Smallitown, although a Quaker
community in Pennsylvania
might find it repulsive and label
it taboo.

At first glance, the court’s
majority may appear to be en-
couraging the admirable exer-
cise of local community
authority. What they are really
encouraging, however, is an
assualt on the First Amend-
ment.

In each community the con-
sensus of opinion, as represen-
ted by the court and the police,
dictates what a man can sell or
exhibit and what a man can
read or see. At best is tyranny
of the majority.

The Supreme Court has
passed the buck to the lower
courts which are un-
derstandably reluctant to rush
to judgement in determining
what is pornographic.

It should not surprise anyone
if such books as J. D. Salinger’s

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

“Catcher in the Rye’’, James
Joyce's “Ulysses”, William S.
” “Naked Lunch’’,
and Allen Ginsberg’s ‘‘Howl”’
once again come under attack
by the authorities. In this
respect, the high court has
taken a big step backwards.

It is now time, before any fur-
ther harm is done, for the court
to hand down a clear decision
distinguishing between that
which is pornographic and that
which is not. I would suggest
that the term be used to
describe only those forms of
communication primarily in-
tended to excite lascivious
feelings.

Often times enforcement of
obscenity rulings has tended to
place the artistic and the ob-
scene in the same category
merely because both might in-
clude profane language and
sexual activity. It is not really
difficult to see the difference
between ‘‘Catcher in the Rye”’
and ‘“‘Swap Circus’’.

I would further suggest that
movie ratings be clarified so
that they simply indicate
whether a film is pornographic
or not. This would eliminate
silly comments like the one
made in the above mentioned
advertisement. It would also
give the ratings a meaning that
anyone could understand.

Ideally, I would like to see the
elimination of all restrictions on
pornography for adult
consumption. The state has no
right to meddle in this area.

However, if the government
insists on getting involved it
should at least know what it is
talking about when it speaks of
pornography or obscenity.
Otherwise, to use a trite phrase,
it throws the baby out with the
bath water.

Jurors Endanger
Freedom Of Speech

By LELAND M. PARKS

Asst. Director of Library

Malcolm Mugridge, a writer of note, commented recently about
the hurrah concerning the banning of pornography: if indeed por-
nography is for the purpose of sexual stimulation, then it is cer-
tainly unnecessary for the young, inconvenient for the middle-aged
and out of the question for the elderly ; hence the concern is Moot!

But the fact is that the question is NOT moot, regardless of the
undoubted logic of Mugridge’s statement. The right to speak-write-
and-read what one wants- the right of the individual to make that
selection for himself - has been very much a source of concern from
time immemorial.

Some have traced the ways of the censor as far back as 3 000 B.C.

In the United States, the 1798 Sedition Act was an effort to
prohibit the residents of the new nation from writing or printing
anything derogatory about the officials of the country (the
Supreme Court subsequently struck this down as unconstitutional. )

Pennsylvania has the distinction of having the first conviction un-
der the common law regarding the prohibition of sales of ‘‘lewd and
obscene materials’”’ in 1815.

The Tariff Act of 1842 was passed by Congress and forbad the im-
portation of obscene literature and was followed in 1930 by yet
another Tariff Act giving the Secretary of Treasury the authority to
decide what was and what was not obscene and therefore im-
portable.

1969 saw the first legislation recommended to the Congress by a
United States President regarding the curbing of obscenity or por-
nography. ;

The problem, of course, is simple: who is the censor, where
does the censor start, where does he stop, and who censors the cen-
sor. The problem goes to the very heart of the matter of freedom.

The truth of the matter is that there has never been a person for-
ced to pay to see a moving picture, a book has never jumped off the
shelf into the hands of a reader ,and no conclusive evidence has yet
been given to say that such material causes a criminal act.

The Warren Supreme Court ruled on the issue of pornography
obscenity in the 1950’s and 1960’s. The court acknowledged that a

(See FREE, page 12)
