She Bavidsanian September 14,1973 Page Five

‘Lil Hussies’ Hurt Madam Davidson

By STEVE CANTERBURY

Just twenty miles north of Soanns

House of Madam-Davidson.

The Madam has for decades
taken the young men’s money,
their time, their energy. She
has given them in return a few
brief moments of pleasure and
a wealth of well-learned
lessons. In short, she has in-
troduced them to life without
preparing them for life.

I, too, have generously paid

gun

To The Editor

I am directing this letter to
certain misconceptions which
arose out of the interview with
me which appeared in the
DAVIDSONIAN's final issue
last vear. I would varticularlv
like to clarify my relations with

Lx edeleededeteteges: Oe
:

Violinist Wolfgang Roth and
Harpist Elizabeth Roth will
present a free recital in Hodson
Hall at the Cunningham Fine
Arts center on Monday at 8:15
p.m. Works to be played include
Corelli's ‘“‘Sonata No. 12,”
Telemann’s ‘‘Fantasy No. 2,”
Krumpholtz’s ‘‘Sonata No. 98,”
Hank Bading’s ‘‘Cavatina’”’ and
the Saint-Saens ‘‘Fantasy Op.
124." Mrs. Roth will solo in the
Prokofiev ‘‘Prelude’’ in C and
Salzedo’s ‘‘Fraicheur.’’ The
Roths appeared in concerts in
Germany and Holland this sum-
mer.

Beginning Sunday at the Mint
Museum of Art, there will be an
exhibit of British paintings on
loan from the North Carolina
Museum of Art. The show will

: ~ Entertainment

the Madam. I, too, have spent
many a night moaning and

groaning, sighing and crying,
learning my lessons within her
establishment.

But when I returned this vear
the red light was turned off. the
house was dark. All was
unusually quiet. Only the bran-
ches creaked from the never
ceasing wind; and the crickets
sounded their awkward A-

I slowly moved towards the
house and onto the porch. The
door was open. I cautiously
stepped inside. All was very
dark. ;

From the darkness a voice
sounded: ‘‘So yer’ve cum back,
eh?’’

‘Is...

~ RAI$/NG

S)

is that you, Madam

Davidson?”’ I asked, quite star-
tled.

The light flashed on. Lying
upon a sagging couch was the
Madam. She wore her usual red
and black house coat. Bulging
beneath the robe was her
hopelessly obese stomach. Her
fallen breasts resembled two
well-worn pillows. They fell
down to both sides of her enor-
mous belly.

Her face was overly full. The
make-up was caked three
layers thick onto her puffy
cheeks. The lipstick was
smeared so that it seemed she
had two upper lips.

She had _ plucked her
eyebrows and penciled two
uneven lines in their place. She
wore a blonde wig that fell for-

$2
CN Si

ONVTRIBUTORS

Leonard Clears Misconception
Concerning Nursery Relations

Smith’s Nurseries, about which
several remarks appeared out
of context in the interview.
Landscaping is a rewarding
enterprise, but it is a physically
difficult business. To be
cessful, one needs to find pod
plovees who are willing to con-
stantly work hard for 10 hours
a day.

continue through November 25.
Also at the Mint Museum wili be
a collection of paintings and
drawings by Katheryn Kor-
theur. The exhibition is lodged
in the Round Gallery, and will
continue until Oct. 14.

The Festival in the Park will
begin in Freedom Park
Tuesday featuring Arts and
Crafts, exhibits, demon-
strations and concerts. The
Festival will run until Sept. 23.
Hours are weekdays from 6 to
10 p.m. and Saturdays and Sun-
days from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m. Ad-
mission is free.

Uriah Heep will be presented
in concert at the Charlotte
Coliseum on Sunday at 8 p.m.
This is an event that few music
buffs will want to miss.

Needless to say, employees of
this type are very difficult to
find, and it is a tribute to Mr.
Smith that he has continued
such a good business despite
constant frustrations with this
natural labor

In addition, he is getting on in

ears and ‘facing numerous
peo y. { have sony yet per-
have seen few people

who progr sed as much drive and
pure physical energy as Mr.
Smith. ing the summer I
worked wih him, he worked at
least as hard as we did day after

y

situation. They showed the

calm of endurance; and yet

they showed the excitement of
tions.

The old lady held a bottle of
gin in her right hand. In her left
she held the glass. ‘‘Si’ down,”
she commanded.

“Why are the lights out?
Where are all the people?
What's...”

“Shaddup un lissin’,’’ she in-
terrupted. ‘‘Aincha heard?
Wimin are a comin’ this year.
Wimin! Those li’] hussies ull be
a-livin’ right uner mah nose.
They gotta lotta nerve! An’ I
don’ mean twinny or forty like
before. It’s over a hunert! A

hunert young purty things all
over the place.

fat and ugly. They ain't at-
tracted to me like they use to
be. They'll jest steer a-clear a

The Madam took a long drink
and refilled her glass. Her tears
danced a quick, splashing jig
upon the surface before drown-
ing within gin. With each
fleeting dance died a bit of an
old tradition that had been so
keenly kept by the Madam.

1 attempted to console her but
nothing occurred to me to say.
Afterall, she was absolutely
right. The girls were far more
appealing than what she had to

er.

(See ‘Li'l Hussies’, Page 12)

Faculty Column

Query Defies Relevance

By LOCKE WHITE

Beware, beware of judging prematurely how relevant a proposed
research project be. A fascinating case in point is the best
known of Buford Price, who will receive an honorary degree at the
convocation next week. Both the main ideas and many applications
of his work are easy for nonscientists to understand.

(He will tell something about his work in a general-audience
public lecture at 5 o’clock next Thursday afternoon in Dana 114.)

Since one idea so often leads to another, it is often difficult to
specify when and where a particular investigation really started.
But I think it accurate to start the story of Price and two associates
with their hope of learning something about nuclear processes in
the history of the earth even of space.

With an idea that is incredibly simple in retrospect, they learned
to locate and identify specific events like the splitting of uranium
atoms, even though those events occurred billions of years ago.

Now what relevance, pray tell, has such ancient history? The
relevance arises out of the simple way they discovered for iden-
tifying not only those ancient events but much more recent ones,
too

When Price’s group started, people knew already that fast-
moving, electrically charged particles like the fragments of split-
ting uranium produce permanent local disturbances in the regular
arrangements of the atoms in crystals they pass through. They
leave tracks, that is. But the tracks could be seen only by electron
microscopy, an extremely slow an inefficient process. Was there a
way to make the tracks visible to ordinary microscopes? Price and
his associates found one.

That was their basic discovery, a means of ‘‘etching’’ the tracks
and making them much easier to see. The has a lot in com-
mon with developing photographic film, by which subtle and in-
visible changes in a negative become easy to see.

The key idea was probably to recognize the desirability of enhan-
cing the visibility of radiation-damage tracks. Given that goal,
most reasonably competent chemists would probably have predic-
ted the idea to be feasible, at least in principle. They would have ex-
pected the structural damage along a track to make that part of the
solid material dissolve more easily in the right solvent, if you could
find it.

Sure enough, Price and his associates found appropriate solvents
for selectively dissolving the damaged material around the tracks
in a variety of solid materials, including mica, plastics, and
glasses. The result is Prong narrow tubes, easily visible, surroun-
aing the damaged tra

agus daaadtorenainsethiecidhing sedhniegen sea disaavaned, it
has been applied to a very wide range of problems. Some are the
purest kind of fundamental science, not at all obviously ‘‘refevant,”’
but some are highly as relevant by anybody's standards.

As just one example of the applied, relevant category, consider
the ease of Nuclepore filters. They are made by the track-etching

thought - but not yet - that this selective filtration may some
day make it possible to detect cancers early enough to cure them.

Back to the question of relevance, I hold that trying
detect incipient cancer would ever have thought of devising the
track-etching process. Fortunately, earlier fundamental research
in radiation damage, geology, and even cosmology had made
Nuclepore filters ready when they were needed.

i

damental enough, the relevance will take care of itself.
