CHIEF INVESTIGATOR OF WATERGATE :
The Senator ‘rejoices’ at Nixon's reversal..

rvin Focuses Nation’s Eye

ee

On Davidson Wednesday

By BRUCE CORSER
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editors

Davidson College was the site of national in-
terest Wednesday when Senator Sam J. Ervin
held a press conference here concerning
President Nixon's recent policy reversal in the
Watergate issue.

Ervin responded to Nixon's statement that
executive privilege would not be used to keep
White House aides from testifying for the Senate
committee studying the Watergate bugging. Er-
vin is chairman of this committee.

“I've always rejoiced when someone who's
been wandering in error has been led back to the
right path. Some of the news media in their
editorials and also leading Republicans like
Golwater prompted this change."

Staff Photos
by

Pete Goodman

ERVIN’S ADDRESS
A capacity crowd hears speech.

Ervin and Senator Howard Baker recently met
with Presidential advisor John Erhlichmann and
drew up a set of guidelines for witnesses which
were adopted by the committee and submitted to
Nixon.

“The guidelines say that the committee will
quietly give witnesses advanced notice and then

release them from any further testimony.

However, the committee reserves the right to
call back witnesses.

‘I'm glad the President used the guidelines in
reversing his particular point of view that no
White House aides would be allowed to testify,”
he added.

The Senator was pleased with the cooperation
the President has recently exhibited. ‘‘I'm glad
that we can look forward to mutual un-
derstanding.

“I think we're going to get access to people
who know something.’ Ervin stated, however,
that it was advisable not to comment on specific
individuals at this time. He pointed out that he
wanted to remain impartial because he is ‘‘a
judge and juror on the committee.”

Ervin added he read that the WASHINGTON
POST has suggested that there would be several
more indictments. He commented that he had
not talked with Nixon recently, and that he did
not know which White House aides will resign. “I
wouldn't tell you if I did.” he added.

Ervin contradicted the President's view that
executive privilege exempted White House aides
from testifying before Congress. He reiterated
his previous posture that anything that prevents
“executive aides from giving testimony by
executive privilege is executive poppycock.

“Executive privilege provides that the
President perform, in a lawful manner. any
obligations to the Constitution or law.” Ervin
said that it would have been tragic if the
congress had been willing to accept the thesis
that executive privilege extended to White House
aides.

“I'm glad the President has decided to let his
aides testify.’ he added.

The Senator emphatically stated, “‘The
guidelines provide that the committee is going to
do the ruling.”

By holding the witness in contempt and issuing
a warrant for his arrest, the committee can
require a witness to testify

Ervin made a passing comment about the at-
torney general's wife Martha Mitchell's com-
ment that she would like to testify before the
committee.

He compared her to a man who claims to be a
preacher who alledgedly had revelations from
God on the Watergate issue. Ervin said that the
Lord may be more laconic in His testimony.

Summing up his position, Ervin said, “The
American people are entitled to the truth.”

Page Three

The Davidsonian April 20, 1973
se — ‘ gt re

~

if

CAMPUS SIGHTSEEING
Senator Ervin, President Spencer and Bill Alexander confer.

NEWSMEN PROBE ERVIN

Talking about Presidential responsibility.

THE PRESS AT PHI HALL
National media swarm for Ervin’s conference.
