Che Dauidsontan

“THERE IS ABSOLLTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS 4 WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT ISHAPPENING ”

-Marshall McLuhan

\LEC HOON, Editor-m- hief
WHIT WHITWORTH. Busines, Manager

memmeneeniionuens

FOUR NOVEM
Recycling And The Energy Crisis
“Dont blame us. its those infer that the Amemcan ou industr

Arabs. say the major ol companies
of the United States. they even look
like the villaims they are So rt is
Saic and so beleeves much of the

And though it is undeniably true
that the Arab oi] embargo is respon-
sible in part for our present fuel
shortage. they should not bear the
entire blame. much as the
Amencan oi] industry would like for
them to

According to a recent editorial in
the Charlotte Observer. ‘Federal

the waste of perhaps a half a billion
gallons of crankcase oil each
year

The Observer explained that
because of these restrictions and
taxes. it is now fmancially m-
practical to recycle automotive
crankcase and lubricating oil for use
in heating

From this it is not teo difficult to

mught be using the situation in the
Near East to mask wasteful. Dut
enormously profitable practices that
themselves bear on the fuel shor-
tage.

The time is long overdue for
repeal of all such “legal devices
which render large profits to the
petroleum industry and cause ex-
cessive waste of direly needed ou

And let us not forget that the
Arabian oil fields are finite In the

inevitable final fuel shortage if the
squandering practices mentioned
above are not halted.

Finally om a different note. if it
should happen as many economists

for them |. let this not be another op-
portumity for the oi] industry to line
its pockets at the expense of the
American citizen

The Lingering Amnesty Question

The plea for universal and un-
conditional amnesty for those draft
dodgers who refused to relegate
their wills to the will of the state
calls into question exactly what a
State may mghtfully demand from
Its Citizens.

before they are allowed non-
combatant status within the

Those who do not cooperate with
the selective service system face
prison sentences. fines. or exile

If a citizen is to enjoy the benefits
of government. there seems to be an

MARY HOBBIE
Ennui Dominates

American Moods

We listen to national news

ac oth OD of the White
% a ee ee nes in- with an expression of ennui
owe ~ a cover-up for which shows us to be worldly-
S aereaie ng up wise individuals

Now * seems tha! a. of the We smile to ourselves as yet
_.. -» 2 ‘sped con- another coat of thin-as-water
weruztaes are cssng of cover-up 1s applied to mar the
—arrec fimash of justice

Tee Som, excuses offered What can you expect”
: eg WE te House for The American public must
ere = n¢ e. derce are Start to answer this question
Dette: me potc sreacuion with anew spirit
fe osut tator nighes What can you expect”
pues 3 ore ang more One can expect honesty in
alex pros government One can expect
‘The sognier a tr atacnine elected officials to dedicate
Dies eer ts weak themselves to safeguarding
oeeesiatons 3 cnnocence are the civil rights of those who
met  Meecng co Nixonasa elected them
mar enc the Presidency) as © One can expect honor - in ac-
ar office tion, not in semantics.

Thus segredavor nas spread One can expect leaders of
“hroughoc: our political the US to avoid corrupt or
svster. Ones considered an illicit business deals

One can expect officials to
be human and to make
mistakes. One does not expect
mocvatec soels Ds greed an official to consider himself
rus: for power and self-love a demagogue and to

‘me feeis incredibl) naive knowingly engage in corrupt
wher ome wants tobelieve that dealings
Gevomor to peace and desire to The citizens of the US.
aod ome s fellow mancanexist must expect the best efforts
it Washington which their elected officials

mcuretie .Cealis: to suppose
tha: somewhere in political
ufe were ome who is not

The attitude of What else have to offer. We have to ex-
can you expect” seems to pect dedication to peace and

Gorrinate the Amemcan mood
Whe: else can you expect - but
crime cover-ups and in-
frimngement of civil mghts”

What eus€ can sou expect in
Eovermimen: Dut pompous self-
mighlewus speeches and buck-
passing sTuch no longer stops
woth tne President”

humanitarian goals.

We must not by the silent
smile or a shrug of the
shoulders excuse injustice or
corruption. We must be
angered by the infringement
of a fellow citizen's civil
mghts We must be hurt by
every blow to the dignity of the

Whe: ese can .ou expect Presidency by chicanery or
Du gmoramce ancimtuwerance demagoguery

evaGame of responsibility
anc ove & flatter.”

These are the questions we

Our public officials must not
beleve that the electorate of
the US will laugh at the

3h BITSED ES anc €acnh other corruption in our nation’s
Ant wnes€ quesnons leadusto highest offices

ar amutude ow cest la What can we expect? We
Zuerre S we «as of the can expect the best which is
.

in our officials to be exerted
for the benefit and health of

our nation We cannot accept
Ziti. fess

Entertainment

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND

} § “The Nutcracker” will be presented in five
pertormances by the Chartotte Sympheny and the Atlanta Ballet
Company on Dec 21. 2 and 23 in Ovens Auditorium. The Atlanta
Ballet wili bring the entire Company for its Charlotte per-
formance. while 32 area children will also appear in dancing

— Head of the Atlanta Symphony will be guest con-

Completely new sets and costumes are be designed for the
Cn riete performance. including a 250. pound magical Christ-
mas tree wruch appears to grow before the eyes of the audience.

. hp aces performances of “The Nutcracker" will be at
f & 150m Dec 2) at 2 30 and 8:15 on Dec. 22 and at 2:30 0n

Dec 2 Tickets are $3. $ a 5 ,
Colapeumn ben. offsee nd $5, and may be purchased at the

Gnee Upon a Mattress.” a musical based i .
| \ i on the fairy tale
Mint Princess S and the Pea.” will be presented by the Central
Pie em ~ommunity College Drama Club, today, towmorrow
anes aaey and Dec 6.7 and8 The players will be accompan-
“2 € ‘teen piece orchestra Tickets for the production are

available at the CPCC -
$2 @ at the door bookstore at $1 90 in advance, and are

antes “Messiah will be performed by the Charlotte Com-
Nd ng Th eran’ on Sunday at 4:00 P-m. in Ovens
Aucivorium Tr Tat iS sponsor t

--Ul enc WRT-FM and there "i is den har innealiaaa

will be no admission charge.
