Che Dauvidsonian

WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON. Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH. Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 13.197:

4 Plea For Reason

What came out mere than anvtning else at the Open End on subsidized footbali
Tuesda. Mgnt was Tlat ine issue is a vers emot.onal one. in wnich ‘battle lines
are Grawn «It brings cack to mind the incredible fervor and emotionality of the
iTelernity 188 3€ two-wree vears ago

And :n tha? situation. as in this one. excessive emotional fee:ings can only serve
to cloud tne issues. Sudcery ticse involved are p:tted against one another in a
totally irrational fashion. anen wnat Becomes iM. portant is winn:ng the bitter per-
sonal! batue of aords. ratner than in dec: ding the fate of sups.dized football

All per.es are guilty to some extent Acmittedly it is hard to divorce per-
somalt.es frorr. the denate. but revertreless they should not become the focus At
this part.cuuar Open End. pecple often seemed more anxious to heap abuse on
those of opposite feelings than thes did to express their own viea points

Peopie erer. tonira: nere What :s at stake 1s whether this. college can continue
“ysupport iestnal: andpasketbel. and cort:nue -0 lose money

Were ene eer Me harm. i cere e Bei es stand on sire tized athletics up
aot “Arle ath hee RENE As LT acre en tole kes 7

ne Tee, ele ett tt Ne Lies et le Tee AMT 2D tte Tt
eT eg Tete cles Dretin6e woetTe sR CATIL™ Tere. at ase tor
we Fle Poet a Frege alee oe else Les neoNe

tere se ge ute or MZ 2 Che Mp.on ii ip] opperec  footoan

Mecrine tne Ae] Me.e notecl presented tatr sage Anco tor th ne ane tee. we
Te tL Oke te Fl lollies. preset Cnet ine oo Lan Ar ten ry sports ea.tur
saeeins Cn nine Fenruerm isin -sue 0. THE DAVIDSUNIAN Cir ook at this

Bul TSG. 0A hel 100 LE... Tlust present e velanced Ducget or tece the

TSE ELCs

A. Ota .O%s Se6IT. 10 Ue hel We un. as 16 00 ths + to reauce the scope a
Whe pOORTe™. 39 Nal.” Qe. A Operate ala deficit We can no conger tustir. 1oo’-
Se. 7 ER MERCE OF UNG Present + stn U2e¢ wee. Aner “he returns eppeer minim
“CUM person te the cust,

Cy must ue mede so tnet the pOogral. Woes nyt jose ahs Mune. im the ruture
wo DOs NOL hecesser... Teen ine eng otine sport here We acuidh pe tnat the
Wig. per.oc Gione wy three .ears in -anicn to prove ms wortr
B00 Tees ets sel timanciae.. Ona more pmited pudget

OD lfis periec a om provement we: mede. tnen greet changes

Tess Ge Tee Pors.bls and ver. uikel. entaainmg the compiete enc wu: sup-
~.0 4e0..08

ARQ An Tegerd °4 be-ketbe. Che. 100 Tr ast ede an error’ to um prove their
Le S.g. 2 7 uetiOn Or race Culpecks

Hose ver Tore hen al hing ese 46 kul urge ver. one mY ster atel f~
acer area epproecs ine © Vrevers. 4A on regsorn Consider caren. ant wou
Aer COENPress sO Mal. ou tun ge ott Naest-cocKed

. ye.
Housing Crisis

Spriaing student enroument in the face of a stetic number of dorm.:tory outlets
T.as shortl, create a crisis in student housing

The H~ using Committee's decision to postpone completion of new facilities until
the tall of 1975 1s probably justified. but it should not presage a continuing delay in
constructing nev. buildings that will be out-stipped by a rising population

The Housing Committee should act immediately to initiate the lengthy series of
architectural consultations that will precede actual construction on the new
buildings ;

If there 1s a temporary delay in housing Davidson's increased enrollment. the
College should corr mit itself to the housing of students as a first priority

“Although offering college-owned housing for the rental of transient faculty
members has been a convenient and attractive option in the past. it mav be
necessary to move students into these prime locations in the near future.

It 1s not too early to begin lapsing the leases of families in college-owned housing
so that they may have adequate time to secure suitable housing in Mooresville.
Cornelius. or other neighboring towns.

For now . the location of students adjacent to the campus should be a paramount
responsibility to college officials.

Honorable
We applaud the faculty's vote—small though the margin may have been—in
support of a three-year probation period for the Honors College. Hopetuily. our
confidence that they will be able quickly to resolve ani differences and reunify
will not be dissappointed. We similarly congratulate and commend the diligent
petition work of the Committee for Continuing the Honors College and the student
bod. 's prudent support
Certainly mistakes have been made in the first vears of the Honors College ~
operaucn. Just as certainis. there suil remain numerous shorteominz~ But 1s
tnere a periect departinent in the regusdl Gonege Prepared to throw toatl pin
stone” The Honors College iust might prove to be the best +a. to stimulate nm.”
ber academics at Davidse 9 Arter three sears ote a. take anotherie: +
Jih ..scrutin.ze ach: TP.) tk ok th tad

MILES WARD

——a

Did Davidson Male
Change This Year?

And they said Write
sumething scathing. Ludo
And that todas vas the right
da. andtime

Ang jooking around for
someone lo scourge and sav. her
face flow into her eves and sav.
local flowerhood in its spring
freshness And tried to describe
this of women

It was only one vear ago when
the hubhubba here was trymg
coeducation on for size

It was decided then that goils
would make our pristine tree
and lakeness here even more
natural perhaps

Soon it drifted into early
sultry September The first
generation unloaded. sized up
from a distance lke cattle on
the hoaf

We ‘tne Davidson male
CTastaiized our categorical
judgment. In imagination we
nec 2.0ec this Nl. be.ond
recugr tar,

Tso a aheers SETH
“wares irendsnip A good
Mm ring  ¢ perhaps a good
Tere WG \ GCabulalies
Aner .Oungd Zirinood passed us
Uid we change” Was this more
natural”

This is suntitied: “How To
Put Classroom Learning into
use within the Walis

Old Hegel had a magnified
conception of women. quite
nghtly so with his models in
Greek drama And I sought the

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

concrete universal here

Gur own Davidson :dea is dif-
ferent The corporate con.
ception of womanhood is early
middle age. stuffed shirt and
sexually tnreatened

After a vear ve can no more
easily relate to women than to
foreign students or murderers
or Presidents

A la Davidson. I saw two
women walk into a dorm today
Fifteen students in one room
saw them walk by the door.
searching out a room number

Frozen from the neck down.
eyes meeting only the comfort
of other male eves. no one
spoke

It was blatant womanhood.
and young male imaginations
flirted with fantasies of
bedrooms and acrobatic sex
Bul no one bothered to speak tr
amore humat. lev e:

Hed tne (4% strangers Deer,
men Meir reception «a ut te
quite different Some mus" tee.

the embarassment or peng
here And lo be honest tnere
are More eNcling. siorean:

Parts of the persunanty zame
which now came out

But in our drama of changing
rules. we have failed to learn
our parts The words have been
changed again.

Have faith. women. ve still
don't know anvthing about
blacks

Lamas Study Critised

To the Editor:

1 :ee. compelled to demand
equa! time on the Pharmacy
:ssue as presented last week in
Andrew Lamas’ study He gave
information that was false.
biased. and incomplete

He was wrong about the State
Board of Pharmacy and the
North Carolina Pharmaceutical
Association No monopoly ot 1n-
dependent interests really
exists when well over half the
members of the N C_ Phar-
maceutical Association are
chain store pharmacists.

It 1s possible in the present
organization for chain store in-
terests to be represented on the
State Board. Last summer a
pharmacist from REVCO. a
chain store. ran for the Board
and only missed election by a
few votes.

Pharmacy 1s a_ profession.
Lamas failed to recognize this
in his study

The “gross. rmmorality’’
clause refers to the code of
ethics which every profession
has. Advertising of prescrip-
tion drugs and their prices 1s
contrary to this code because it
encourages self-medication.

Prescription drugs are not
commodities like meat. bread.
or clothes and cannot be con-
sidered as such.

Independent stores do not
Teally clear that much more
profit than chain stores when
these factors are taken into ac-
count: Independent pharmacies
try to purchase from compames
that have a reputation tor
quality.. and therefore their
wholesale priees are Ingher.
smailer independent phar
macies cannot purchase in the
quantives that larger: chains
do. and he never demonstrated
a 2000 iy ae percent mark up
In prices Beeswuse Wo ducsut
sot the Teta level

The examples he gave of
inequities in practrces are
presently illegal or against the
code of ethies and pharmacists
caught at these practices will
lose their license

The money-making schemes
in regard to Medicaid are
especially illegal. and _phar-
macists tound doing this should
be reported

Lamas was completely wrong
when he said pharmacy stu-
dents cannot do internships in
chain stores. Pharmaey intern-
ships may be performed in in-
dependent. chain or hospital
pharmacies

Medical colleges do teach
courses in pharmacology. and
quite good courses at that. but
doctors do need professional
pharmacists to advise them as
new drugs are developed.

I agree with Lamas that the
Food and Drug Adminstration
could clear up most of the ‘‘ab-
normalities’” with increased
staffing and inspection. but he
is Clearly wrong in presenting
the view that a pharmaceutical
monopoly exists in the retail
drug business in favor of the in-
dependent drug stores when in
fact the chain stores are buving
out more and == more in-
dependent pharmacies who are
now on the verge of extinction.

Finally, 1f Lamas had studied
the full range of drugs offered in
pharmacies. he would have
found that chain. drug stores
only eut prices on a few popular
prescription drugs. just enough
lo give . discount umage, and
then charge comparable prices
lo independent pharmacies for
the "1 pereont not diseounted

Vinee Rabil 75
Nas idson Gollege
