ONE MORE TIME
The Davidson basketball team will take the floor once more
this season in an NCAA experimental game.

Roadtrips Extinguish
Wildeat Confidence

By PETER CELENTANO
Asst. Sports Editor

One of the pleasures. of being associated with any in-
tercollegiate team is the Road Trip. Of course, throwing twenty-
odd males together on.a bus and in small rooms for four days is
bound to produce some peculiarities. This trip was not -ex-
ception.

The trip started on a down-beat as we left for Baptist College
last Thursday night. We had just lost one to Madison College in a
particularly aweless performance and we did not relish the
thought of a five hour trip to South Carolina of all places. _

What can one do on a five-hour ride? Reading is painful
and card playing difficult. Sleeping is . Gloom
descended as we hit that poor excuse for a state, South Carolina.

We stopped just outside of Columbia for a refueling (food)
layover. Laughs came as we saw butter ice cream, corn
dogs and other local delicacies. provided humorous con-
versation later on the bus.

As we neared College, the players exchanged horror
stories about the . Freshmen couldn’t believe that there
was a Baptist College. They were soon to find out that it is all too

It’s hard to describe Baptist College by moonlight except to
say that you can get a good picture if you imagine an abandoned
airfield with a parking lot. os

After the usual griping and ‘‘I told you so’s , we found our
rooms in a half-abandoned dormitory. Except for luxuries such
and heat, the accomodations were perfect.

rated about average on lunch and dinner, poor
The game on Friday was a disappointment. A 6-3 loss is hard
to swallow anywhere, but especially if you're on the road and
know you should have won. _
”N problem was what to do after the game. The place is like

of commotion in the next room. The kukamonga bird twittered ,
flipper squealed and all was right with the world.

The movie we planned to see was sold out so some went to the
lounge, some went to the carnival.

We then retired to Pizza Hut to contemplate our sins. There we
admired the waitresses and cursed the carnival.

Back at Baptist later in the evening some of us were able to

talk with a coed. She agreed that Baptist is a real hole.

Sunday was a travel day, spent in a trip along the sattery of
Charleston and winding up at that bastion of Southern Chivalry,
The Citadel. :

What can I say about the Citadel that hasn’t been said before. .
The Citadel is the world’s largest time machine with its gear
stuck in reverse. ;

The day was spent reading, playing cards or basketball, or
going to the beach. Later, most of the team went to a movie and
dinner. As we retired for the night, amid the jokes and curses,
we knew that the road trip would soon be over. With that, we

were able to sleep.

The bus ride home was exceptionally quiet. Of all the teams
we play, Citadel is the team at the top of the hate list.

‘rhs was what made the 4-0 loss so guuing. we piayeu well, but
for two bad innings. Team confidence took a beating on the trip.
We knew we couldn't be that bad.

ival in Davidson was around midnight Monday. It seemed .
like snicesok: Road trips are just like that, I guess.

The Davidsonian

March 22, 1974

Nine

Sailors Brave Mild Breeze
In Charleston Spring Races

By ''RACY CHARLES
Staff Writer

Davidson initiated its
Sailing season this year in
Charleston, S.C. at the College
of Charleston’s Annual Spring
Regatta.

In spite of the significant
disadvantage of not having
been in the boats since the end
of last season, the Davidson
team performed remarkably
well. Other schools par-
ticipating in this regatta held
practice the two weeks that
Davidson was out for Spring
Break.

Daryl Douglas and Dave
Francis skippered in the ‘‘A”’
and ‘B”’ Divisions, respec-
tively, with Tracy Charles and
Tommy Lee working as
crews.

The early races, run in light
to medium breezes were en-
couraging. Douglas started off
his sequence with a first place.
Two firsts in the five race
series bought Douglas a tie for
first place in his division.

Newly acting commadore
Dave Francis did not show as
strongly in the ‘‘B’’ Division,
but still managed to complete
the day.

The tides, always a
significant variable in college
races on the Ashley, were a

decided handicap. Record
tides, at one point, moved the
boats out into the harbour
faster than the winds could
force the 420’s upriver.

This obvious deterrant
caused the races to be post-
poned for two hours while the
RaceCommittee waited for the
sea breeze, due regularly
around 3 p.m.

Davidson finished the series
in fourth place. Last week’s
rather weak showing in
Charleston should however, be
eclipsed by the Cat’s per-
formance in Davidson’s An-
nual Spring Regatta being
held at Lake Norman this
Saturday.

The sailing team, having
been practicing for two weeks,
should show more confidence
and style in the upcoming

series. Sailing in their own
boats and in familiar water
lends a favorable edge to the
Cat’s chances to excel this
weekend.

Sailor emeritus, Jimmy
Hunter, a graduate student at
Georgia, will lend his
knowledge and judgement to
the running of the series as a
member of the Race Com-
mittee.

liunter, a Davidson
graduate and erstwhile team
member, will challenge the
sailing team with tough com-
petition throughout the week.

In an effort to get students
to attend Saturday’s races, the
sailing team has ordered a keg
of beer to whet the thirst of
those who want to picnic,
study and watch the races off
the point Saturday afternoon.

Serving bow!

See Our Large Selection

Of Jewelry
) JEWELERS

WH,

Jewelers of trusted
Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.

Name

Finally, an affordable
Electronic Pocket Calculator
for every college student.

Only $39.95

At last, an electronic calculator affordable to every college student. A
product of space age technology. Four functions — add, subtract,
multiply and divide in seconds. Nine digit display. Automatic addition
and subtraction. Enter a number once and simply depress the plus or
minus key for each addition or subtraction. Light weight — less than

5 ounces. Easily fits into pocket, brief case or notebook. Compact —
approximately 5” x 2” and less than 1” thick. Two-place decimal
setting for addition and subtraction. Long life — typically 15 hours of
continuous operation with easy-to-buy, easy-to-replace 9 volt batteries.
Automatic turnoff feature to conserve battery life. Automatic squaring
— press the “x’’ key to square displayed numbers. All this and more
for only $39.95. Optional AC adaptor for longer battery life, UL
approved, only $4.95.

CD | like it. Enclosed is my check for $39.95 plus 60¢ for postage. (N.C.
deliveries add sales tax). Immediate delivery upon receipt of order.

Address

City, State, Zip

marketing

p.o. box bb, dilworth station, charlotte, n.c. 28203

Je!

