Twelve March 29, 1974
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE coaching job at the University
Managing Editor of South Florida in Tampa.
resigned the Davideon administration
Seory Sftinad « _— is finding a successor, which
accept the same duties at the speed possible since recruits
University of Virginia. are hanging on the line
Holland succeeds Bill Gib- Holland, who had spent five

son, who resigned just prior to years as the Cat mentor, made
the Atlantic Coast Conference a trip
Tournament to take the head

And it came to pass that North Carolina State won the national
basketball championship...

lt got to the point where you could not even read the paper
without being overwhelmed by State propoganda.

But I guess that is what should happen when the state gets its
first national title since the Tar Heels of UNC captured the crown
a long time ago.

There were some very depressing moments during the past few
weeks for someone like me, who is anything but a State fan. It all
stared with the ACC Tournament. And the depression got worse.

Maryland. . .Almost Enough

After the Maryland maul of UNC in the semifinals of the ACC
tourney, it looked as though State would be in for a real haggle.
They were.

And whether or not they were ready for the Terps may never he
known. But the ball-hawking defense near the end of the
regulation portion of the game, coupled with a sudden ineptitude
of the Terps to work their offense, gave the Pack the spark they
needed. . ..

To a great extent. Tom MeMillan had a point when he said
Marvland should pull out of the ACC. With the tourney in North
Carolina. especially at the Greensboro Coliseum. the Terps were
definitely at a disadvantage.

State. .. Homecourt Edge

It could not have been a more timely place than this season for
the regional finals of the east to return to Reynolds Coliseum, If
the Pack had lost there. it would have been good-bye Norm Sloan.
They did anything but lose.

Then came the finals. The Pack at home in Greensboro.

In my opinion, UCLA just blew it. The 1 1-point leads, the
seven point overtime advantage...they just blew it. Perhap> they
should have tried to hold the ball more with the lead in the over-
time. That might have been the winning strategy. But who should
second-guess John Wooden.

Credit the Pack with never giving up. They should be shot for
not getting the winning baskets with little time left. in both

regulation and fire overtime. But the game ix history and State ix
the NCAA champion.

Walton...Foul On The Press

The last portion of this column is given to the defense of Bill
Wakhon, upon his recent attempted demolition by the news media,
especially some of the Charlotte papers. If a guy has just played in
his first losing effon in playoff competition, why go into the
locker room at all. I think just about anyone who, after being
raed the best player in the nation for two years, has just played in
what had to be an emotional contest for all the participants,
would have reacted in much the same situation.

There is some individual right to not talking with the press if
you don’t want to. And, unless I miss my guess, the same “repor-
ters” would not have written about Thompson or Burleson or
Towe in the same manner, if they had refused to talk to the press,
had State been the loser.

Walton proved he was not the “sore loser” and “had sport” that
some area papers claimed he was by playing in a consolation game
ihat cid not mean beans for him or any of the other seniors. And
tfter losing for the first time in nearly 40 playoff games, I don’t

knew if | — Ho inte a Prnonaitarticlh contest, pre con-

sep eseaserere

possibilities of the job with the
athletic staff of , most
notably, Athletic Director

while not extremely suc-
cessful in recent years, has
tremendous potential with

But Holland also left with
some reluctance.

“I love the place and the
people,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s very
hard for me to leave David-
son.”’

Holland also mentioned that
he must consider his family in
the move. The Virginia

position is a very lucrative

The Clinton, N.C. native has

led the nation in field goal
shooting percentage while
playing forward.

He remained here after
graduation at Driesell’s
request to coach the freshman
team. He had winning records
during all his seasons. Then,
when Driesell left for
Maryland in 1969, Holland
went with him.

But when Larry Brown, who
was named to succeed the new

uits Dav idson For Va. Post

com-

Fagg left to take a post under
Homer Smith at Georgia

Diamonders Clout “VML. 9-]
Behind Manire Mound Work

Behind the strong two hit
pitching of Ross Manire,
Davidson's baseball team
bombed VMI 9-1 and split a
doubleheader on Saturday.
VMI took the first game 3-2.

In that first game, Joel Tew

went to the mound for the
Cats. Desite some early wild-
ness Tew pitched a strong
game. Errors by shortstop
Gary Pomeroy and catcher
Mark Rodgman contributed to
VMI’s two run third, and Kim
Wong’s booming triple set up
the final keydet run in the fif-
th.

Tew struck out four and
walkd only two in his seven in-
ning eight hitter. While
walking few, Tew’s wildness

sixth with a deep single to left.

out, ending the

Lewin had trouble in the
seventh as Mitch Stone
boomed a pinch double to left
center. After slumping Dave
Ingold flew to center, Gary
Pomeroy struck out.

George Weicker plated
Stone with a long double to left
and Mark Rodgman had an in-
field hit to put the winning run
-at. third, but. Dave. Mayberry

For Your

"Prat out Guat vat bork in the
third when left fielder Wong
singled in Tom Ridley. That
was it for VMI, as Manire
allowed but two baserunners

(See BASEBALL, page 14)

SPORTING LIFE

TENNIS SHORTS

BY Munsingwear
and Jantzen

KNIT SHIRTS
by Izod,
Munsingwear
and Jantzen

TENNIS SHOES

Jack Purcell by
Converse

MOCCASINS

ESTABLISHED

Join fpck 8 Gun

128 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE, NorRTH CAROLINA

