Twelve October 11,1974 The Bavidsontan

Statement On Housing Facilities

-Up'n’Coming

Friday, October 11

s allweek § HerbJackson Exhibit Stowe Galleries
| A ! ‘all day Symposium on Chambers Banquet Hall {
e own av i n Human Sexuality ns
10&12p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium
“Kelly’s Heroes”’

(Ed. Note: The following is a resolution passed by the Student Government valldee . sp HPS on Perkins Auditorium {
Association Senate at its Tuesday night meeting. The text of the resolution ap- Human Sexuality ee
pears as it was passed. Copies of the measure have been sent to Davidson 8 a.m. LSAT Chambers Banquet Hall }
Mayor Tom Sadler, the Davidson Town Council and College President Samuel ; S:bp.m. . Ferry Rockwood: - ACh i e Auditorium §
R. Spencer Jr.} ‘Edgar Allan Poe: A Condition

Of Shadow” :
Monday, October 14 soe kee
: i iving ji : 8 p.m. Film Series: ve Auditorium {
Fact: An integral part of an adequate standard of living is.a healthy en on ok Man”

vironment, not only social influences, but also adequate physical
facilities in which to live. Clusters of substandard housing and ghetto-
like structures have been shown to be breeding grounds for perpetual
sanitation, and usually result in the existence of vermin in the spread ot
disease. ~

Furthermore, the Statement of Purpose of Davidson College states that:
‘“‘Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts,
of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full
lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.”’

Ww

Declaration: We believe that housing as described above is not only detrimen-

tal to inhabitants in a physical and healthful manner, but that it
is also psychologically and morally degrading.

We further believe that a college such as Davidson College which
professes to desire to develop a Christian and humane lifestyle
within thosewho are the College, should endevor to extend its
Christian and humane professions to the surrounding com-
munity.

We further believe that the Town of Davidson has an obligation
to assist those living in the community in realizing a respectable
standard of living, in the broad sense as well as regarding
adequate physical living facilities.

Resolution:

Therefore, we, the SGA Senate of Davidson College resolve the
following:

1) We mandate the coNege administration to evaluate thoroughly the
housing facilities which it offers to its employees. Realizing the dilem-
mas which exist in such an enterprise, we suggest to the college that now
is the time to determine how to remedy a situation which is dubious at
best. We further petition the president of the college to issue a public
statement regarding his investigation and the college intention by Oct.
22, 1974.

2) We propose to the Davidson Town Council that a standard of
housing for all living facilities in the town should be explored. We fur-
ther urge that an official housing code be adopted and enforced. We

request the Davidson Town Council to make a formal statement of their
intentions within 30 days.

.. Cat Booters Dumped Twice

(Continued from page 11)

st Duke to boot the ball
through the goal post, The fir-
st half ended with a close 6-3
score.

Duke came out for the
second half fired up. Despite a
tough game by the Davidson
ruggers, the Blue Devils
scored a try midway in the

half. The conversion kick’

failed.

Duke put down Davidson’s
hopes for a come-back as they
scored three points on a
penalty kick. The game ended
in Duke’s favor 13-3.

The second game was a
close contest. Even with
Davidson being short. one
player, aggressive playing
was the name of the game.
Davidson was beset by
penalties as many Wildcats
had never before played.

Duke scored first with a try
and the conversion point. The
rest of the first half was a
stalemate between two-very

aggressive teams.

Davidson made a come-
back in the second half with a
long score by freshman David
Swain. The kick after failed,
but momentum was on David-
son’s side.

Fred Smith made a penalty
kick good as Davidson took the
lead 7-6.

Davidson was confident of a
victory up to the last minute.
At that point, a penalty kick
from a back angle was made
by Duke as time ran out.
Ironically, Duke had tried in
vain two penalty kicks before;
both short and at easy angles.

This Sunday, Davidson
travels to Louisburg College
near Raleigh, N.C. When
asked how they expected to
do, Jeff Morrow, who was

O First

sidelined with an injury in the
game against Duke, said, ‘‘We
will destroy!”

Davidson’s next home game
will be against Hampden-
Sydney during Homecoming
Weekend.

4%,

HM HH BB MH HH HH

+ Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
JRA ISO INOISOII III IOI A ttt I th

Union National.

DAVIDSON

Tuesday, October 15

Wednesday, October. 16

Thursday, October 17

Saturday, October 19’

7p.m. Worship Service — DCPC
8p.m. Fine Film: Love Auditorium
“Yankee Doodle Dandy”’

COLLEGE CONFERENCE DAY

all day ROTC Blood
Drive
Friday, October 18
all day - Artist Series:

Claude Kipnis--Mime

8p.m. Football: | Lenoir Rhyne
Lenoir Rhyne( WDAV Broadcast)

8&10p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium
‘‘A Clockwork Orange’”’

Chambers Banquet Hall N

Love Auditorium

SLSDLDLD DD LL LD LTD LL LLL LAA LLG I III I Ir

. ..Conference Day

(Continued from page 2)

course as their Extended
Studies under the sponsorship
of Professor of Biology Donald
Kimmel.

Kimmel felt that such a
course should be taught by
professors from_ several
departments.

“I would like to see all
Students, but particularly
freshmen, . take this kind of
course,” Kimmel said.

At this time, a. course in
human. sexuality is being
discussed and considered.
Most of the faculty and ad-

ae gO eas

\ ‘Thursday-10a.m.-3:30p.m.

LSA A MP AAA A AAA A A A pA A cA Aid ie

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.

ministrators contacted felt
that the course might be of-
fered in spring of 1975 at the
earliest.

Terry pointed out that there
are a number of activities on
campus this weekend in ad-
dition to the symposium.

“There is the movie Friday
and a concert on Saturday
night,” Terry added. ‘‘We
hope to be able to combine
some education with a big
weekend atmosphere.”’

The symposium is being fun-
ded by the College Union and
the Dean of Students’ Office.

; rr’

Chambers Banquet Hall Q

} PI IRI IR HII IIH IIIS IIIS SII SISISISISISISSISISISISISISSIAIAISI ASS ASA ISI IG

HATTIE’S
Subs--Pizzas—-Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught

ARERR ERE ERY MERAH HH
