Faculty Guest Column

Davidson Emulates
Hellenistic Libraries

The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE

IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief By! DIRK yoe—mnere

= = _—_ ® Manager a The idea of a library probably originated in ancien Assyria
re RIL and Babylon. In the Greek world prior to Alexan Great
— a ESE 5 1974 only a few tyrants had the means to collect books, but in the

Hellenistic Age which Alexander ushered in, state libraries
tegen to spring up ev t Antioch, Pergamon, Rhodes,
Smyrna, and above all at Alexandria and also the nearby
Museum, of the modern Institute for Advanced Study
or think-tank. Like the professors at the Princeton institute, the
incumbents of the Museum were salaried for life just to think.

International Criticism

The comments and criticism of this
year’s group of international students
concerning the Davidson experience
aren’t new. For those on this campus
who get to know each year’s group of
internationals, the comments made
this year may sound old hat because
they are. But if every year, the
foreigners say essentially the same
things about Davidson, then it stands
to reason that there must be an
element of truth in it all.

essentially positive. Just compare
this with the remarks of the foreign
students of two and three years ago.
There were few among that group
that believed they could stand David-
son until Christmas.

After the initial shock of entry, this
group grumbled for the entire year
about every facet of the Davidson
lifestyle, its academic program and
the character of the student body.

Well, that was in the old days before

The director of this Temple of the Muses was appropriately

public lectures and symposia. Kings
have been a participant.

The handsome physical plant supplied by the Ptolemies in-
cluded the commons, a splendid lecture hall, and a tree-planted
quad. In short, the Museum was in effect a university. To the
general public its residents were somewhat suspect, as are
students and professors in the modern world; a contemporary

sceptic termed them ‘‘fatted chickens in a coop.”

If the Museum was an important factor in making Alexandria
the center of the Hellenistic world in science and literature, the

joined scholars at
discussions in the symposia, and Cleopatra herself is said to

coed : Library was even more important. After its foundation ships
ucation and a good case can be came from every known country and dumped so many book

the astute observation that the made for the poor quality of the rolls on Alexandria’s quays that it was not until the reign of
average student at Davidson seemsto Davidson lifestyle back then. In years Ptolemy I! that mey finally could be sorted ¢ out and | catalogued.
be convinced of a particular set of past, it wasn’t just the international Even by the time Cleopatra so many were stored on
values, academic values, traditions students who disdained the life here, ieale ae saa pveaion 40 reaevias tin 1 ee Ae vereneeel the
and social norms. She’s right of cour- but things have changed. ‘

to that Caesar had burned down the entire library.
se and for a good reason: It has been said that in the past eatter two centuries of operation the library had acquired
The financial and

be finan social year, Davidson has become a good perhaps ra many ue a, practice of yap
ckgro of most of Davidson’s place to live rather than a good place copyists determined the form of book production in the ancien
students are very much the same- toleave. SN aoe eee
middle to upper class - and part of |§ The international students don’t , head librarian who was ex officio tutor to the crown prince.
Davidson's program is the lure of the complain so much these days when he literary taste for learned allusion set by these scholar-poets
life style that those students’ parents you consider the past. But still, their survives in direct descent in the subtle obscurities of an Ezra
enjoy. This is of course, not true in observations and comments are in PoundoraT. S. Eliot.

every case, but it is true enough to

sas . On the Davidson campus we have long enjoyed the amenities
every case, Dur it is true enough to many cases justified, as one wouldex- «+ Gambers Hall, our own temple of the Muses, which under its
the institution. So, what the in-

pect them to be. They are intelligent high priest functions much as did the Alexandrian Museum.

people who are able to be as objective Now from its windows one views the muddy wastes of our own

ternational students find when they as any of us about the college, about _tree-planted quad-to-be, and beyond this the impressive quasi-

arrive is an institutional set of values what it says it offers and about what it classical mass of the soon-to-be completed library. If this happy

perpetuated by the students,. really offers. juxtaposition of books and the Muses should prove to function
One comment, though, especially
needs mention in the light of the in-

One international woman has made

. f it did f i i i
But the on ents from the in- cas os & Doles ttebetelinen
ternational sector have become _ The new E. H. Little Library has the capacity to store half a
benign in recent years. That’s a good million books against the day that Davidson's collection may
sign; it means that Davidson might Grow to such Size. it can seat more than three times the numDer
: : udents now make use 0 t facility at an
be still changing for the better. given time. presen: y y
No longer will the freshman find himself lost in a maze of mez-
zanines ; all books will be shelved on the top level. No longer will
co-eds look in vain for a women’s room ; as our first monument
; to co-education, Little Library features feminine facilities on
immortalized in future freshman every floor!
English survey courses-‘Modern on eae need peso eee to ask for assistan-
Literature from ks of Fit- * essional reference ill be on 360 degree display
terat ~~ the dar oO tt in a central, glassed in goldfish bowl. From the elegant rare
zgerald and Hemingway to the sun book room with its fireplace to the 24 hour study room in the
shine of ; (fill in your name). basement, all is designed for brightness, convenience, and air-
You can find here and there in ‘°Mditioned comfort, with foresight for future expansion and
close-knit associations, bouncing ee staff is by the Di or
- e library headed e Director, Dr. Chalmers
thoughts off of one another, waiting pavidson, who, like his Alexa.dr ve la at eau
for the day when one in the group will scholar, author, and administrator. Under him serve a variety
succeed and then perhaps, others of gifted and dedicated people including a former professor of
may follow. classics and other college and school teachers whose fields
And they're here at Davidson. range from music tomathematics. _
Fred Chappell noted that this Next year the new library will provide office space for active
§ , professors emeriti, who will act as consultants to students
year’s entries to the Vereen Bell com- wishing to i ; ,
ir pursue independent research in the professors’ areas
petition were among the best exam- of competence. This program is funded by a $50,000 challenge
ples of student writing he has seen in a Se to Davidson by the Nationa! Endowment for the
recent years. Who knows, maybe ies ‘or an innovative proposal to effect (as the i
Davidson is already spawning its won reads) ‘‘the transition of many libraries from tepositories tor
1 books to the central agency of the teaching process.”’
contestants for future literary for- If Davidson's library is to become in truth the central agency
tune, maybe one of this year’s win- of the teaching process, as was the ancient library, many of us
ners will someday breach the }ill have to acquire a new mind-set to go along with the new
almighty Publishing House and Pullding. The library together with the laboratories, ought to be

; regarded as the most indi bl
maybe the same can be said of those than as that which sauiabivactens coeiiuien tet ens
to whose work Chappell cried percent carpeted halls ought to be thought of as the most natural

‘‘bullshit’’. place on campus to be, rather than as a place of

: ’ penance.
But whatever happens , we extend Pep tocar a ~I remember participating in a discussion under
our congratulations to the winners Us series in Which the subject of the honor system

ternational criticism. Whatever those
students have said about Davidson
this year, their approach has been

The Bulls and The Bells

In colder climates, they flock to
colleges and universities or to
promising literary scenes in and
around New York City and the state
of California.

In the tropics, they scatter to the
four winds, from Bimini down to
Curasco, over to Bali and Bora Bora
and they write it all down. These are
the literary hopefuls for the next
generation, the young and the not-so-
young aspirant novelists, poets and
playwrites waiting to put to paper the
flash of genius that will finally coax
the demigod Publishing House to take
a gamble on their work.

For those caught in its grips,
creative expression is the most pain-
ful of intellectual ordeals and at the
same time, a near-narcotic com-
pulsion. Once the hopefuls have writ-
ten something of their own for the fir-
st time, the years become an endless
series of yellow pads, spent pens and
typewriter ribbons until they have
finally written in their own blood that

which is worthy of publication (if

they’re lucky).

And their reasons for writing are as
variant as their subject matter: for
the self satisfaction, to make the
guycke bucke,.for.their names to be

and the losers of the Vereen Bell for
their time and efforts spent toward
helping Davidson College distinguish
itself for things other than graduate
school preparation. oteaares Fe

was brought up. The students felt that the Davidson Honor Code

was generally strong and effective, but they admitted that there

=m | there was tacit agreement that it
ey were not inclined to spell out these areas, but

were certain areas in which
did not apply.
i can guess at one.

(See HELLENISTIC LIBRARY, page 5)
