WETPAINT .
John Stockdale's collection of paintings is now on exhibit in
Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Roger Manley

Curled Canvases Accentuate
Horizontal, Vertical Clefts

A Review

Currently being exhibited in
the burlap hallways of the
Cunningham Building are a
series of large unstretched
canvases by John Stockdale,
formerly of Australia and now
a nuclear physicist.

Stockdale’s paintings are
limited to two themes, one ex-
clusively vertical and the
other horizontal.

The vertical ones, which he
refers to as ‘‘personal shapes”
are experiments with the
Positive-negative aspects of
dark or black colors against
raw unprimed canvas. These
can be described as clefts, or
again, if the dark seems to the
viewer as positive, as un-
derwater cutaways of
sailboats at anchor. He
prefers to think of them as
clefts

The horizontal paintings oc-
cur chiefly as two horizontal

reel to reel reviews
‘The Paper Chase’

You are a senior at Davidson College
thinking about a possible career in law. A
necessary prerequisite for this is, of course,
law school. Once you get there, it seems that
all you problems will be solved and you will
be a lawyer simply by remaining alive for
three years.

Timothy Bottoms and Lindsay Wagner
(that name should be a winner in New York)
disprove this naive in the new
release now at the Park Terrace Theater,
the ‘‘Paper Chase”’.

Directed brilliantly by James Bridges
(who also John Jay Osborne’s
novel for the screen), the ‘Paper Chase”’ is

; The cast, save for the cold Miss Wagner,
is uniformly excellent, with Bottoms,
Naughton _and John Houseman (as

)

see, and see again. It is without a doubt one
of the best films in circulation at present.

the unfortunate ex-
of Mr. Petrovich). I suspect that the
1.a sentimental romance in mind,

i

By PETER CELENTANO

bars, generally a shorter bar
with one or more ends of
either bar drooling down and
flowing into the other bar or
down toward the bottom of the
canvas--certainly not
terrifically pleasant nor par-
ticularly exciting images.
Both kinds of paintings are
handled in much the same

manner: the paint is applied
while the canvas is unrolled on.
a floor, is allowed to flow
around and soak into the can-
vas in a predetermined area
but in no particular pattern.
Once dry they are rolled up
for easy storage and tran-
sportation or tacked onto a

(See CANVASES, page 12)

% The Joy of Eating
c —_—.

ww

Nd

v
~

at
eS

The Great
Steak Fake

ae . & ~~ oe

Aa
“

ty
aes

Woody Connette A
Es Oe

STEAK! Ahhh, the fantasy of lean, thick, brazen beef with all
the trappings is enough to force even the most stoic among us in-
to a feeding frenzy! Steak! That one word has diverted fortunes
into the hands of the entrepreneurs behind the neon menagerie.
Since it is generally wise to understand that which controls us, a
little discourse on the charm of beef is the order of the day.

The two primary factors contributing to a good steak are
‘whether the cow walked to Chicago or rode the train, and how it
was treated (i.e. butchered) once it got there. Even Benjamin
Franklin once remarked that little can be done to a piece of
meat to improve upon what the cow did itself.

A good cook, therefore, knows that in preparing a steak, as in
boiling water, any superfluous activity beyond heating it to the
proper temperature is potentially damaging. Despite the sim-
plicity of its preparation, steaks have been smothered in a

mystique

red hot grill hag consequently come to have an erotic appeal to
some people who in turn have ushered The Steak House into a
front row position in the American Dream.

Due largely to its high cost and the associated fact that people
will continue to crave beef regardless of its price, three distinct
types of steak houses have evolved.

First among these is the stand-in-line steak joint that thrives
on its economic appeal, despite the fact that the customer must
often pay extra for such accessories as butter and silverware.

Second is the type of restaurant designed for those who think
nothing of paying extravagantly for excellent food and at-
mosphere. Such a restaurant, though specializing in steak, will
more often than not offer additional non-beef entrees.

Finally, there is the unadulterated Steak House, which carries
igted ries and enough glitter to attract those who feel com-
in the very name of such a place. 6 y

From this third mold is cast the Hereford Barn, located on 1-85
at the Derita Road exit. Outside are parked big cars driven by
smokers of big cigars. Inside, one is struck by the way these big
men treat their wives, who in turn flit furtive glances about the
arn to assure themselves that everyone else is properly acting

The salad bowls are advertised to be the bigges t in town, and
like their customers, are among the shallowest. Admittedly, the
food is excellent, thus catapulting the barn into a position as one
of the best restaurants in Charlotte. On the other hand, I have
only rarely had a bad commercially cut steak, so it may just be
that the Barn owners realize their limitations and don’t try to
prepare anything more difficult, such as tunafish casserole.

—

Filler: The way the
lately, there seem to be a lot of ura nen
them N.C. State. The only
