The Evolution of Davidson, Part IV hy

Code Of Behaviour Transcends
Personal Faculty Predilections

By TOM BRUCE

The history of the class of "74 has been basically
happy. No one thinks much about it one way or the
other. We are all content and we are willing to see it
through, grinning and bearing whatever remains to
be grinned and born.

Graduation will be a happy moment for almost
everyone for almost every reason. Some have
dreaded each new dawn at Davidson, and to them
commencement will be a relief and an end to the
charade. To others Davidson has meant success and
Paradise on earth; for them, graduation is the
culmination of all this bliss. For still others whose
feelings are not so conclusive, there is satisfaction
at having accomplished ‘‘something’’. no matter
how unknown or useless. :

It has been a long time since I knew nothing about
Davidson. The year before I applied to college |
read the catalog from. cover to cover, plus all the
promotional literature I could lay my hands on. Af-
ter all this reading, I was at the summit of my
ignorance, and 1 realize this today.

Several of my friends had applied for admission
to Davidson, but they received one-page rejections
instead of the bulky envelope that I received. After |
arrived I saw dozens of computer sheets posted in
Chambers. These sheets listed the hundreds of
names of people who had been accepted for study at
Davidson along side the even longer sheets of those
who had merely applied. The difference in size was
attributable to the names of the rejected.

procede as promised. The student becomes a
master at selective amnesia and Dr. Peale’s
strategy for positive thinking.

But slowly this momentum begins to fade and
the old worries reappear, and with the tramplings of
this last optimism, comes a hard-nosed cynicism.
Students become increasingly derogotory about
Davidson in their conversations; hostility and bit-
terness are taken for granted. Other students refuse
to articulate their complaints, sensing that they are
incredibly pampered and that the blame for their
failures lies wholly within themselves.

The arguments and reasoning of these students is
increasingly a trademark of Davidson life and by
the junior year it predominates. They refuse to
criticize the Davidson education on any but the most
superficial grounds. They have invested two years
in college and they have realized that it will con-
tribute toward their mental health if they refuse to
give ground to their old fears.

They begin to champion faculty members whom
they once ridiculed. They begin to quote the party
line. offering resistance to any suggestion that
Davidson College is weak in any respect. They find
happiness in their new roles as victims, much as the
victims of famines and wars find that they are more
resourceful and responsible after they have lived
through devastation. They say thank you to each
new disaster.

These students and their classmates ultimately
reach a cruel cross-roads. Having ignored their in-
stincts for two years, they realize that they are

“Today I do not pity the applicants who never get the
chance to debut at Davidson. A quick rejection is one of
the most painless ways to deal with Davidson.”

Apparently these unlucky legions would not have
Davidson's help in becoming ‘‘persons of humane
instincts, of disciplines and creative minds, and oi
Christian character for full lives of leadership, of
service, and of self-fulfillment.”’

Today I do not pity the applicants who never get
the chance to debut at Davidson. A quick rejection
is one of the most painless ways to deal with David-
son. It can prevent agony after arrival when one
senses the futility of competing in the whole bundle
of withdrawal sym that accompany ad-
justment to life at Davidson. I wonder if anyone ac-
tively appreciates the plight of freshmen at David-
son. Twice a week announcement sheet is
packed with lectures to hear, films to see, and per-
formances to attend.

But the freshman overlooks these opportunities so
that he can spend 10 or 11 hours a day attending
classes and working in the library. Two weeks pass
and he never ventures outside the area of & coy
block, bounded by the library, dorm,
tidchorie Of course he spends Saturday night drunk
with his restless hallmates, only to feel guilty on the
long, inevitably rainy, Sunday afternoon.

Sunday afternoon — the time when one must ac-
count for the failures of the past week and reconcile
the hopeless week ahead. A humanities theme is due
on Tuesday on an assigned topic. There are two
reviews on Thursday with writs likely at any
moment. Vocabulary words in a foreign language
are probable as are memorization of proofs in
calculus sequence, which seems to be the undoing of

students.

None of these activities is unworthwhile or even
unwelcomeontheface of the situation. But when they
come on top of one another in endless profusion,
when the reviews and themes become so automatic
and so meaningless, one begins to feel like a victim
caught in a very web. You begin to
distrust your own feelings on the subject, deferring
to the influence of the upperclassmen and the
college graduates who are always around you.

If they can live through it, so can I!

Somewhere along the way the hope that your on-
going education should be useful to other people,
your family and friends is lost, as it becomes ob-
vious that you are not really helping anyone by
going to Davidson. The concepts and terminology
that characterize collegiate homework take on an
ever more remote signi
memories of the world outside Davidson where
diversity and conflict flourish.

When one returns as a sophomore, hope gets its
second and last wind. Everyone has grown up
hearing that the freshman year is the Worst, and
that once the early difficulties are surmounted the
way is clear for education and enlightenment to

going to become Davidson men inevitably and they
finally acknowledge that the transition will be
smoother if they go gently into the night. ‘‘David-
son: Love it or Leave It?” they ask themselves.
They donot leave. '

In quick order they are buying into the Davidson
myth on the installment plan, finding fresh
corroboration for their endurance everyday. They
return to their hometowns three times a year,
singing praises for their alma mater, while back on
campus graduation looms near and the old
uneasiness is suddenly a memory.

I do not contend that these stages are typical of
every member of the student body at Davidson. I
contend only that they are typical. They charac-
terize the bulk of the students who do not transfer
from Davidson.

What is my evidence for making these claims?
The evidence cannot be defined in the spirit of the
Cri tty er
im ion, but only so
aa sen wame it can be flushed away at the next
opportunity.

Davidson in 1974, could be so much better than it

BRUCE

read and understood the Statement of Purpose and
the opening pages on academics in the College
Catalog. We have to begin to correct the enormous
gap that exists between our idealized notion of our-
selves and our reality. This would not be a viable
suggestion if there were only slim chances that we
could begin to live up to the most fundamental
promises of our College's Statement of Purpose.The
suggestion is possible to undertake, and in many
respects it is imperative. -

Many faculty members act as though they have
never read the current college catalog. Their ac-
tions both inside and outside the classroom show

. that they do not acknowledge responsibility to

anyone for their inconsistencies and personal
references.

lam not implying that they are hypocritical or in-
sincere, since this would occassion a discrimination
that isdifficult to make. lam stating that theirwords
and actions show no attention to the fundamental
promises of our College’s Statement of Purpose.
; These pages are so fundamental to Davidson's
identity I do not believe that members of our
community should dictate policies that distort and
mock these . Students are not perfect, but
they would be more nearly perfect if the most
powerful men and women at Davidson, our faculty,
would recognize that they are bound by a code of

behavior that transcends their -
join the realm should resign. We have a right to ex-
pect better.

Rather than enumerate a list of specific case
studies to illustrate my meaning, I choose to be as
inclusiveas possible. (This newspaper could be filled
with examples of situations that ae gnc and
decisions that are made at Davidson that could
never have occurred if we were operating according
to the principles that are given so much fanfare

“We fail if we are governed by suspicion rather than
our own constantly professed Honor Code and whenever
we forget willfully that we are committed to the concept

of community.”

is if we would do so little. My suggestions for this
transformation are so basic that I dread to see them
in print.

Since September of 1970, we have adopted a new

social system, the Honor Code with
the institution of self-scheduled exams, modified the
athletic programs funding, and admitted women
students. We have activated the Center for Honors
Studies and established the Extended Studies con-
cept.
Taken together these changes constitute a
revolution in learning at Davidson, and already
these changes are making constructive and
sweeping changes in life at Davidson. But they were
concrete changes that could be undertaken
dramatically and absolutely. Their adoption was
very nearly irrevocable and they have worked out
very nearly according to the course that was en-
visioned.

The next level of change is more abstract but
equally extreme, more basic but equally
challenging. We have to begin to live as if we have

here.)

We fail to live up to our own standards, in simplest
terms, whenever we behave as if we work at a giant
university where there is no opportunity for inter-
activity between the students and the faculty and
whenever we are brusquely petty and small-
minded.

We fail when we fail to give attention to the in-
dividual and when we act as if the principles of the
Christian religion, faith, hope, charity, and love,
were simply abstract doctrine with no concrete ap-
plication to reality whatever.

We fail.if we are governed by suspicion rather
than our own constantly professed Honor Code,
and whenever we forget willfully that we are com-
mitted to the concept of community.

We fail when we forget that the worth of David-
son, in the long run, is the worth of the individuals
who compose it.

We probably will never conquer original sin, and
we probably won't ever live up to our ideals. But we
ought to try. We can do better.
