‘Teg December i8, 7A She Basinsaatn

Slater SeeksRight To Sell Beer

~ «nf been over there,

operation have not been deter-

f e-
-Byh TH we made him slap down a 15 you’ve role
a, ; proposed Union), i mined.
: 5 (oe reteset iseke Heo on “If someone is intoxicated, handled by ‘students them-
f the second floor. Right now it aiid wants another beer, we'll selves talking and saying to
‘takes a lot of imagination to” | shut him off.” said Scott, but, someone-“Hey, I think that’s
ee ee ain org Se ae _ enough.
people same mean stumbling wil
‘everybody tells around and can’t speak The beer that will be sold in
. Sone te ail be ready. They ‘ Soherently.. I don’t know. If the Union is only a part of the
‘say late spring or early Sep- someone is obviously whole picture to
tember-i just don’t we'll shut him off. It’s ‘Smith. “I’m anxious to have a
know.’’said Scott. to serve an intoxicated per- place where students can
According to Smith, it is im- in.” erty come and sit around and talk
possible for Slater to make “We have had no. .to one another, and to faculty
money by selling beer to trouble _here at Miaka members.
Sates, oven ot tip com SOY we do _“‘It will add significantly to
Secebed be will impose will
“Tt is not possible to make a
te it ara teckeve
make the e want it to be a even
Rathskeller (beer was dispen- {jnion Board would have con- proposition. Scott’s food ser-
sed for the set “donation” of 15 trp} and we do.” vice can’t subsidize the beer
cents) was illegal. They said = The actyal procurement ofa sale, there won’t be enough
that no beer can besold inthe heer license from the ABC . It costs less to get a
that this was actually selling come until the Union is com- does to get one at Slater. It will
of beer. This time the College ieted because the license be the same with the beer §
began to consider the prospect heonle have to see the facility because of the lack of —
of obtaining a beer license. before a license can be gran- volume.” saidSmith. __
“The ABC Board were the ted. Smith forsees nodifficulty Both Scott and Smith have
ones who encouraged us to here, the only question being some concern over the
seek a license,” said Union when the Union will be: wisdom of students with in-
Director C. Shaw Smith.“‘We Ron Scott, director of toxicating bev . Smith
clobberéd, we didn’t han- \RA Slater Food Services at _ said, “I don't expect anyone to
the thing right at all. We Davidson, like everyone else, abuse the privilege, but I know
should have given away the has to wait for the necessary omeone will.” He is in favor
beer and then asked for a building and renovation of the of not opening the sale of beer
donation, but the way-it was oid library into the new Union until 5. p.m..in the day;
was that if a boy wanted beer, to take place. ¢. however, the actual hours of

SONIAN , Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Letetesseateteeteleete eet eaten eee ae ees cece anne tan tata ana eae ete ope eA SS aT
‘ *v98

| Contributors this week: Bill Barnes, Bil Ellett, Sabra Faires, Cliff Gardner, Mark Gergen,

ter chance to do that on the

year would be the t
amount of time for the trav

Side of it; He said that he got a”

ByNANCYNORTHCOTT neat never granted final per-
Staff Weiter <ailtisn tax Gok cai. “Aa but that the program in Africa
far as I’m concerned, was adequate. He said that
Davidson students who wish’ something breaks unex- ‘tudents interested in social
to go abroad to study for a pectedly, we just aren’t — eso! Mi toed
are no longer limited in . thinking about it right now,” a
eit to Europe. The alter- said ; Suited to it than the University
native Junior Year Abroad “I wanted to do something cle eos tet xr A iuamamaae
program permits students to different. Africa wasanatural Which he attended.
study in Africa and Asia as place for me togo.Ireallyfelt _ |The majority’ of students
well & the urge to go there,” said Would probably go for dif- He stressed’ that the en- ot out of the academic side of
According to head of the In-. senior Reginald Harding, who ferent reasons than I did.  iornment is totally different the program as well as the
ternational Studies Francis went to Ghana on the alter- Maybe they are just really in- tom the western countries. chance to travel, but advised
‘Ghigo, the college also had native JYA program last  ‘erested in visiting a third farding lost 15 pounds from that anyone interested in
plans for a JYA program in year. Harding did a paper on World country,” Harding ob- he food differences. He said _ going take the English history
Baroda, India atonetime.The the political development of *erved. shat the relationships of the series before going.
Pakistani was intervened, Ghana. He said that he got “Youhave tobe more resour- people to each other are quite He feels that this would
' however, and strained the. more out of it by doing it in ceful in a program like that different. English is the of- make ita little easier to do the
rela between India Ghana than he would have by ‘Dam, say, in Marburg. You ‘ficial language of but work there. “I was satisfied
and the United States. While doing it here. shouldn't go with any precon- Harding feels that it is a good with the . I got about
nothing was ever said of- said that he had to Ceived notions,” Hardingsaid. idea to pick up a language all that you could out of it,"he
” fieseescesseeetetececececteneeneentite teeters ; commented. :
The JYA program extends said that the struc-
_ 5 a to France, Spain, Germany, ture of the program depends
avidsonian Sta se eee Atc ube mein thera
late and Asia. Ghigo said that the how much of the work is
“‘single-term abroad’’ taught at the graduaate level,
Executive Editor: Operations Manager: Advertising Manager: programs, such as the St. An- which tends to be less struc-
MARK DEATON BILL ELLETT _ JEFF SICH ne’s program, are becoming tured than the undergraduate.
Managing Editors: Assistant Managing Editors: Assistant Business Manager: ™ore popular. The Classics The programs in France an
LARRY MIMMS ——_ MATTHEW COVINGTON; DAVID TRADER Abroad term is another Germany ahve advisers, while
- 2 MARK WILENSKY STEVE JOHNSON Contributing Editors: popular one term program. those at other schools may
Sports Editor: Assistant Sports Editor: JOE DUNCAN I don’t think I would have not.
CHUCK KENNON GLENN BALLARD GREG DUNN come JA. I just wouldn't be “In almost every place
Editorial Consultants: Senior News Exiitors: VINCE RABIL up for studying over there that there is less structure than
sik Gleeson BRUCE CORSER Cisitel nn: long. I was more interested in here at Davidsn,” Ghigo com-
ANDY LAMAS "RICKY BE travel,” said senior John Ran- mented. He said that some
ERIC WALKER RICHARD ROMEYN es Dad, dolph, who went toEnglandon schools take over large groups
Associate Editors: CHARLIE SHEPHERD JEFF NEIKIRK the St Anne’s program last and live together, which
CHUCK HARMON GORDON WIDENHOUSE Photography Editor: summer. Randolph was more causes the n to be
JOE MCMILLAN Cartoonists: LEON VENABLE interested in getting to know more structured than
THOM NICOLL’ KEVIN BRODE Typist: the people. Courses taken abroad
GUS SUCCOP PAUL MITCHELL CAMILLE CATHEY He feels that there is a bet- receive normal transfer credit

at Davidson except in one in-

: Pete Goodman, Roger Grange, Jackson, David Kitchin, Bill Lloyd, Mark Menchell six-week program. Randolph stance. This is when the cour-
| Morrow, Nancy Northcott, Anne , Mark Scandling, Charlie Slagle and Ben — phil a ae considered _ se is optional and is taught by
Published weekly at Davidsén, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the schovi veur. al : ee oe sal yo, gen gr |
Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVID- a full and the professor

student agree on the grade.
(See JY A; Page 16)-:

ort

win) meet? eat) edt ned 63 5
