(Staff photo by Goodman)

SPIKED PUNCH
Volleyball nets mysteriously appeared around campus last
week, only to acclaim volleyball as the sandlot sport of the week.
Incidentally, the judges ruled that at least one player was il-

Letters To The Editor

he Bavidsonian = March 15, 1974

Eleven

Tipler Lauds Ultra Society,
Males Flaunt Yellow Streak

To the Editor:

Recently I asked Doug
Brown why he wrote the ‘‘Ne
Ultra Greenbacks’’ article
which appeared in the DAVID-
SONIAN. He said he wanted to
express his anger over the
college’s tendency to praise
the members of the “‘Society”’
for everything but their
donations, and to entertain his
readers. Admittedly the piece
was entertaining; however, it
was also narrow-minded,
illogical and potentially harm-
ful to many Davidson stu-
dents

I doubt if Doug met all the
members of the Ne Ultra
Society. Never-the-less, he
stereotyped them as smug,
self-centered, conservative,
nice in a harmless sort of way
(whatever that means?) and
prone to look down upon
anyone outside their economic
class. Two other students who
attended the same function,

similar one, failed to notice
these attributes.

It seems possible that Doug
saw only what he was looking
for.

As a psychology major I
marveled at his ability to
discern people’s motivation
for giving money to Davidson.

Does it seem logical for
someone who (in Doug’s
terms) is ‘‘rich for a living’’ to
travel to a small town in North
Carolina just to check on their
“tax write-offs?’’ Not to men-
tion the fact that many ‘‘tax
write-offs’ will pay for your
vacations, keep up your hun-
ting lodge, or give your money
back to you in some other
form.

The only return Davidson
can offer (besides education)
is some ‘‘cheap concoction”
for lunch.

Finally, the potential
damage which an article of
this nature could cause far

those of us who need and ap-
preciate it.

I hope the author enjoyed
writing the article. I did not
enjoy reading it.

Brad Tipler ’74
Davidson College
To the Editor:

As members of that con-
siderable faction of stolid
male chauvinists, we feared
that the advent of coeducation
would spell the doom of the
delectable perversion unique
to Davidson. Fellow oinkers,
fear no more: the perversion
has not been dissipated; it is
streaking to new realms of
glory.

Arn Eliasson °75

Daron Ferris °75

Davidson College

P.S. A Davidson man needs no
introduction.

LETTERS

legally entangled in the net.

and myself when I attended a

‘The Exorcist’

Now playing at the Capri Theater in
Charlotte is the most talked about movie of
1974, ‘“‘The Exorcist.”’

An astounding number of articles have
been written about this film's evil (or good)
influence, its stars, the conflicts behind its
production, etc.

With all this exposure, the film cannot be
seen without a certain amount of ap-
prehension or prejudice. This is not the
place to recount all that has been written
about the film, but such outside sources had

The film fully deserves to be nominated
for an Academy Award. It is a very slickly-
made, fast-paced, exciting movie.

The performances are uneven. Max von
Sydow is excellent in a bit role as the ex-
perienced exorcist, but Linda Blair over-
does the cutesy bit as Regan (the one
possessed)

Ellen Burstyn, as the mother, does a fine
imitation of Glenda Jackson, but her per-
formance lacks the necessary strength.
Playwright Jason (‘‘That Championship
Season”) Miller is impressive in his first
movie role as the young Father Karras. —

The film shines especially in its technical
aspects. Director William Friedkin has a
tendency to over-direct, but he keeps the
pace fast. oe Lottoran’s editing is crisp,
but predictable.

The visual and audio effects are what
make “The Exorcist” the horrifying spec-
tacle it is. Dick Smith’s make-up work is ex-
ceptional as are Marcel Vercoutere's
special effects (through he overdoes the

It is this last assumption which is most
maddening. Film is a powerful behavior-
influencing medium which today must tran-
scend money-making.

The makers of this film may have done
their job too well. The film is horrifying and
could drive a person to illness. This, of cour-
se, is not the fault of and maybe is a tribute
to the producer of the film.

I would be the last person to suggest that a
government agency review the film, but
shouldn’t those who make any movie con-
sider the words responsibility and ethics?

There is a contempt for science in ‘“The
Exorcist” which while probably not in-
tended, could drive a person with mental
problems to eschew the aid of a psychologist
and seek out a priest. Already there have
been reports of people saying that they are
*‘possessed.’’

Put simply, the producers of ‘‘The Exor-
cist’’ do not try to prove the existence of the
Devil nor the futility of science. Quite
frankly, they are out to make a buck.

Any movie maker who doesn’t see this
acts not only irresponsibly but criminally.
* One can’t help but feel ripped off when one
thinks about ‘‘The Exorcist.”’ You have been
exposed to every gimmick, both audio and
visual, to frighten you out of your seat.

However, upon reflection, you find that
there has been no substance, no reason for
your fright. The film has taught you nothing.

~ One feels that he has been the victim of

By PETE CELENTANO

outweighs its ‘‘entertain-
ment’’ value.

I, like many others, came to

THE DAVIDSONIAN

solicits letters on any sub-
ject from our readers. We

Davidson on a scholarship. At- [reserve the right to edit let-
tending two other colleges has {ters over 300 words in
made me realize how good we § length and to make correc-
have it here. However, if just {tions in spelling and gram-
one Ne Ultra Society member mar. All letters must be

is offended enough to quit signed.
giving to Davidson, at least

$5000 less will be available to ‘
Fe eS

The Joy of Eating $
¢ Albert’s Grill é
¢ Hey, Hey, 8

é

Hey

Woody Connette s es
&. SOB BE OB OD BE BE OBE. BBLS ol

This column was brought to you by a freight train. Had I not
been awakened by the 2:00 A.M. irregular and been left with my
brain riddling with arcane fantasies throughout the rest of the
night, I never would have bothered going to Albert's for break-
fast. But I was and I did, so let me assure you that Albert’s Grill
is the most bustling place in predawn Davidson.

Albert's Grill (also known as Rich's Grill) is just on the Cor-
nelius side of the railroad trestle diagonal to the 7-11. If you are
going there for the first time, drive slowly and take a friend to
help you look carefully. Albert's is small and easy to miss.

The inside is an archetypical grill that smacks loudly of
Kienholz’s beanery. Likewise, their food tastes like anything
else that has ever been rendered from a grill - hotdogs with lots
of garbage, fried not zapped hamburgers, and all kinds of WASP
sandwict nes.

Because of its proximity to the campus, Albert’s needs to be
classed along with the M&M and the Hub. Despite the moderate
prices, folks should go there once in a while not so much to eat as
for the thrill of it.

What’s so outstanding about Albert’s? Well, the day begins
there at 5:45 A.M., and it seems to always be filled with people
whose occupations require them to be up at that hour. The at-
mosphere is casual, friendly, eggs, bacon, toast, and coffee. I
like it and was resigned to keep it a secret until I realized that no
one who woulu spoil the spirit would bother getting up before
sunrise to do it.

To sally forth a good laugh on a Monday morning can really
set the tone for the rest of the week, and that’s what I got from
listening to the account related at Albert’s counter concerning
the streaking E’s spree and subsequent crash last week. “‘. . .
there (his name) stood stock still and stark naked ...”’.

Albert’s Grill. Don't show them this column; I want to be free
to eat there again sometime.

Filler: Well, brethren and sistren, it looks like I’ve pulled up
an inch short again, so here’s a good carp recipe that has been in
the family for years. Nail a fresh, whole carp to.a thin plank and
roast the fish thusly over an open fire. Allow just enough time
for all of the juices to ooze out of the fish. discard
the fish and serve the board steaming hot. Feeds five.

OD:

Mc. hy
aw
