Eight

April 12, 1974

The Bavidsonian

Letter To The Editor

Scandling Opposes Athletic
Scholarships At Davidson

To the Editor:

In the last issue of THE
DAVIDSONIAN ( April 5, 1974)
two columnists. Mark Wilen-

sky and Pete Celentano.
suggested that a re-evaluation
of Davidson's sports

philosophy may be in order.
Mark Wilensky wrote in sup-
port of athletic scholarships. |
would like to express my
opinion of athletic scholar-
ships.

I am opposed to athletic
scholarships. It seems that
anytime money is pumped in-
to a sport expectations rise. I
believe that Davidson athletes
and coaches should not be sub-
jected to the tyranny of the ex-
pectations implicit in scholar-
ship support

I subscribe to _ the
philosophy that intercollegiate
athletics are non-scholarship
endeavors here for the benefit
of those students who wish tc
participate. Academics cer-

tainly take precedence over
athletics. This has been my
understanding of the wrestling
program here. and I am glad
to have participated under

Two questions now arise
can we get a sufficient number
of walk-ons to compete? and.
can we compete under such a
walk-on basis? My answer to
both is yes. Few people realize
how unusual it is for a school
this size in the South to have a

non-scholarship wrestling
team. especially one com-
posed mostly of one-sport

athletes. but this is the case
here

Someone competitively
interested in wrestling would
never consider coming here
Yet. we have had some good
wrestlers here in my four
years, and I dare say all have
come here for the academics
Academics and student life
are the only lures we should
use wher trving to snare
prospective athletes

As for our ability to compete
on a walk-on basis. that is a
question of our competition
Scheduling is the obvious an-
swer. Each year our wrestling
schedule has on it several
teams who will beat us.
several teams we will beat,
and several matches which

these terms.

perspective

By LEX VEAZEY

Guru Fervor Hits American

Middle Class College Youth

The latest far-out cult in today’s counter culture,
the ‘Divine Light Mission,’ is sweeping America.
Mahatma gurus from India in less than two years,
have converted over 60,000 Americans. Most of the
converted have been middle class youth, many of
them in college.

Thousands of American young people will con-
verge on the Houston Astrodome in November for
the Divine Light’s inauguration of cultural birth.

At the center of the Houston gathering will be 15
year old Guru Maharaj Ji, the ‘‘Perfect Spiritual
Master’”’ of this new religious movement. With the
title *“I'he Lord of the Universe,’’ this young guru is
regarded by his followers as the Deity incarnate.
In his presense, his devotees prostrate, offer
flowers, and kiss his feet. The Divine Light
followers believe that Maharaj Ji’s movement will
dissolve all the world’s problems, such as racism,
poverty, and warfare.

Commenting on the Divine Light Mission,
William H. Barr, assistant director of the division
of student activities at Michigan State University,
says: “Higher education seems ill-equipped to
grapple with the utopian visions of youth and the

sectarian scenarios they embrace. Yet if
movements like the Divine Light Mission surface
on a campus, faculty and staff members should at-
tend their meetings, rap with the kids, and thereby
expand their awareness of student culture.

“Our staffs must view these quests as part of the
current orchestration for cultural rebirth, with

overtones that transcend any one _in-
strument...Adolescents desperately need such en-
counters. So do adults.”

provides us with a challenging
season. Granted. our records
have not been the best. but my
first two vears here we had
winning seasons

Championships are an im-
possibility as long as we re-
main in the Southern Confer-
ence

Although everything seems
to be working against us, |
still feel that we can compete
respectably. I feel that the
other sports here can also
compete without scholarship
aid.

I am seriously concerned
about the new form of aid
which will go to athletes under
the need basis. The Wildcat
Club will grant an athlete a
“scholarship” in order that he
not have to take a loan or a job
if it is determined that he
needs either or both.

The problem is that this will
not be a uniform practice
throughout all sports but
will be limited by the amount

of funds that the Wildcat Club |

solicits. This is grossly unfair,
and some other factors will
undoubtably come into play in
the determination of which
sports and athletes receive the
‘‘scholarships’’.

I may be naive, but I do not
care to see Davidson athletics
caught up in the expectations
which athletic scholarships
imply.

John Scandling, '74
Davidson College

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

solicits letters on any sub-
ject from our readers. We

reserve the right to edit let-
ters over 300 words in
length and to make correc-
tions in spelling and gram-
mar. All letters must be
signed.

aoe @e @ ae:
The Joy Of Eating

)
8 Down And Out
8 Around And

¢ About Charlotte

¢ Woody Connette Tey 3
% ae 2: ©@ @&@ @ 2 @ @ @:

WORLD'S BEST PECAN PIE! FAMOUS BLUE RIBBON
STEAKS' With no more pretentious gloating than that, An-
derson’s Restaurant has acquired a secure spot in Charlotte on
Elizabeth Avenue and in the hearts of devoted clientele

Anderson's is a family restaurant - very functional - with
booths lined around the sides and down the middle. High chairs
in the corners and childrens’ menus flesh out the story. So it ap-
pears at least. but on the last couple of visits most of the
customers have appeared to be on the downhill side ot middle
age

Only rarely is Anderson's suggested in discussions of eating
places in Charlotte. but this is due almost entirely to the shor-
tsightedness of flashy gourmets. Anderson's is so nondescript,
so restaurantesque. that it frequently escapes the attention of
people searching only for charm and atmosphere .

BUT THE FOOD! An examination of the menu immediately
impresses one with the low prices of the profuse entrees. The
famished eater can waddle out for less than two dollars. Most
meals are typical of those in any other restaurant in the area
and are served oven hot with a minimum of fuss. But one of their
numbers - the Hot Dorsey Sandwich - would be outstanding in
any restaurant anywhere. Briefly described. the Hot Dorsey
($1.85) is a remarkable combination of kirsch and a ham san-
dwich. and is served in a baking dish in the same manner as
lasagne

Even Roger Manley says that the pecan pie ts the world’s best.
but I would also recommend the Boston Cream Pie. For those of
you who have experienced this delight, be assured that this 1s
really Boston Cream Pie and not a silly Southern shortcut bet-
ween angel food cake and banana pudding

Next time you go to Queens, or to South Park better yet. look
to your right as you pass the entrance to Presbyterian Hospital
on the left. and there you will see Anderson's

Down on the south side of Charlotte on South 21 is a drive-in
called South 21. Every small town has a drive-in with a
‘reputation supported not so much by the food as by the cars
cruising the lot, and chances are that many of these places were
modeled after the South 21.

Charlotte is generally conceded to be the home of drive-ins of
both the restaurant and the movie species. In fact. this area still
has the highest per capita number of drive-in movies of any
place in the world. Within this mecca. South 21 is the grand-
pappy of them all.

A decade ago, South 21 was in its prime and provided the hub
for a culture far more complete than has been suported by any
institution since that time I even know someone who proposed
to his Junie Moon there

Today, family-pecked kids all over Charlotte soothe their
munchies at the drive-in after blowing their lids. But so much
for the aura. John Bevan went there after the opera last week
and enjoyed it thoroughly. Other sources say that this is the only
stay-in-your-car place in Charlotte that still uses real onions for!
their onion rings. This authenticity can be found in other items
on the menu also

For whatever would possess you to go to a drive-in. just
remember that South 21 is the original and still the best
Next week: Please don't tell me your Calabash stories.

(Photo by Tanner)
The Shady Grove Boys picked, strummed, and fiddled for the Chambers’ Square Dance.

PLAYING SQUARE
