Senate Resolution

son College resolves that:

Letter, To The Editor

The Senate of the Student Government Association of David-

_ The publication of the Quips and Cranks must be returned
immediately to the duly elected student editors;

to reaffirm the mechanisms for
student publications, both financially and editorially, and to
mensure open lines of communication.

Be it known that the SGA Senate takes no stand concerning
the tastefullness or journalistic worth of any items presently at
issue with the Office of the College President. The SGA Senate
stands firmly upon the right of free expression for students,
the right of students to determine their own processes for con
trol of student publications, and the expertise and integrity of
student chosen editors and the Communications Board.

ensuring student contro

‘

photographs

in the pictures, but that they
would print anything that —I—
-sent them.

‘Apparently, they only

decided differently last week,
iafter having had all the
material in question in their

Saying that ‘‘the language has:
been

used in many’ very

prestigious books, some of
which have won journalistic
awards from various judging
agencies.

“The nudes used. in most

other books are female, and
where streaking is concerned
many editors use side shots
and avoid controversy.

‘‘However, we used the
in question

fm.

[Ste Bawtdaantan (October 25,1974 -

Editor Expresses Indignation | |

: GEORGE

' “Surprisingly, they are

quite activist about it. They’ve

been very vehement in saying,

“‘We won’t take it censored—

we want it the way it is.”’

| He urged those students who
loppoee this action on the part

_ with the school.

© individual trustees as ~a
means of expressing their
disapproval.

“Students could play a.

major part in influencing the
Trustees’ decision by their

-» The situation mandates that the Board of Trustees im- ; : beha ursday’s recep
mediately issue a comprehensive statement guaranteeing inodite for more than three Sigel iy oe
student freedom of expression in student publications; The editor also commented! Wie Neetad -ataerd thie
rd receipt of this statement, representatives of studen eaouage’® pega Shotes, aesgpers dengan ee act:
i he phe cas ' e college,
publications and the administration of the college should me Georgé said that he felt a

could possibly be made a-
gainst the censorship; but
“no student leader would want
to go to that extreme.

“TI feel sure that the
Trustees will be very willing
to talk about this, and ‘ap-
pearing before them is our.
only concrete plan of action at
“his time.’’. ’ ‘i

The editor stressed the point
that Quips and Cranks is sup-
yosedly a student owned, con-
trolled, and edited
publication and that the ad-
ministration’s only authority

‘Three;

\passed by a 2-1 margin. : / By PAUL WELCH | because. they fit in with our of the college administration
ay te : d ct Writer. page ppt Pala the onlye ones to Beemerey Bes mga
gis "Pree and Cranks itor ta ity available. Trustees of

Whereas the publjation and distribution of the student Salt eis as: “surort Wetncen' ‘ sf for shock Davidan Collage at the racep-
published yearbook Quips and-Cranks has been halted by the : Baan dp r Seas tion in their honor Thursda
Office of the College President and - eae ceeepanted:. by the. | vanee ; en ———

recent administrative Incidentally, one of‘ the evening. :
decision to stop distribution of |headlines which the ad-‘ | ‘In conjunction with the
| the 1974 annual unless itis cen- ‘ministration is objecting to is |3.G.A. Senate and_ the
sored. a direct quote from a DAVID- Residence Hall Council, the
In his view, the submission SONIAN editorial printed last , editors of the various student
| of sections of this year’s book _ fall.” | publications ‘are planning a
' to administrative officials for | According to George, unified appeal to the Board of
‘Teview constitutes “‘a betrayal students here appear to be ‘Trustees in defense of their
= my fs faith” by Delmar, almost universally against ad- ‘freedom of expression.
: inc., the pul lishing company | ministration censorship of the ‘ONT iete,

Whereas the action. clearly violates the right of free ex-—j handling andCranks.' —_ yearbook. diate ta Brisa — .
pression assured students at other institutions of higher lear- “Throughout the process of “As far as .the stinhaind lavailable appears to be behind
ning and any citizen of this nation and Pye Geoie T eeintte editors know, there does not us on this matter, and I really

_Whereas students do not surrender their constitutionalfj with the publishers as to how pres lagny vatseng beg pen! ey thse student yg
rights upon entering Davidson College and _ [§ to handle this material, par- ‘sorship, thar tate Oil toate ne

ticularly the pictures of the reatiton 46 the. thea letter

Whereas the action threatens the very core of free ex-j Streakers. They told me that which is going to be
pression through student publications at Davidson; in order to prevent libel suits, among the stud-

we should black out the faces " ents for them to sign and give

to intervene would arise from ,
its function as a collection ,

agency for student fees.

Davidson College would also”

de liable to any lawsuits that :

might stem from the
distribution of objectionable
material to people associated

In conclusion, he said that
as far as he knew neither he

‘ministration’s actions regar- its “p; purpose is to | With the leadership our ad- ‘might stop giving for that
To the Editor: ding the censorship of the 1973- ‘develop persons of humane in- {ministration has exhibited in "eaSon.
74 Quips and Cranks. have sstincts, of disciplined and {regard to this Situation, the . “I really think.the primary

Lately there has been a lot OPenéd my eyes as to the creative minds, and of |college is unlikely to develop issue as the administration -
of time, space and thought gin of many of the college’s ‘Christian character for full jmuch more than inhumane,  seesit is the money they might
devoted to the attitudes which Problems. __lives of leadership, of service, |uncreative persons who run lose
now prevail on the Davidson The actions of Spencer, and of self-fulfillment’”’? Har- | around with their genitals ex- “On that score, I would like
eee Pate an al mmae eon mefemceereee

or many ible, totally unex- , i very t, il of “ : <ul

things: producing apathetic, | plainable and thoroughly ob- Pia dewcsigach Hemberger ed |secrecy behind which our ad: fual, which contained a pic-

warped individuals, forcing noxious. "ministration that does not Ministration acts ought tobe Wr pol saa Lora ea

Peete Ravine school, and Highlighting the idiocy of Practice or possess any them- (removed. At the very least, showering male cut off at the
ti pod img aspera gong aaa ‘Tilanation frosh Spenceret al. Pubichair.

True, this institution has its planation concerning cen-.. How can the college attempt Sie Phi ean think that. th.
faults like every other in- of the 4M to develop the kind of | Without this explanation, dividing lihe here is ver‘,
stitution; but I have always  fromi the SGA; the aforemen- welacedth in te chiawe ante | their standis pape Pag ss Seen
believed the strengths out- tioned threesome did noteven (fom the 1974-75 College |'C™orseful. Forgive them, is which ‘Un -.
weighed the weaknesses. Until find it necessary to inform | Cetalogie) when is awe | fellow stadents, for they know doubtedly be considered, but
this past week. students f their motivations wine ; , not what they do, since Quips and Cranks is a:

It has been a long process of ethan <= ——~ "+ | to their “purpose”? The an- , Bruce A. Reichelderfer Jr.’75 not be our primary at !
enlightenment, but the ad- And this institution claims swerisobvious.  . . | Davidson College. _all.”” Dagk
