The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR

May 3, 1974

Comedy and
Conspiracy

In the spring of the blooming
library, we gathered to hear a rem-
nant of a past that is growing hazy - a
past of anger and outrage, of arm-
bands and marches. Dick Gregory
came as a voice remembered as
crying ‘‘No!”’ before the excitement
of dissent became the rage, and who
continued to stand strong when the
wave of opposition died to a ripple.

We trotted out to see a relic, but we
heard something far more important.
We were told about today and
tomorrow.

Entertainment is only a small part
of an evening with Dick Gregory. We
were hit with much to think about.
Wading through a lot of laughs and a
lot of tantalizing hints of massive
government conspiracy, we were
reminded that our lives are in the
hands of lots of people who need
careful eyes turned thier way.

We were reminded that there is a
great deal of good old honest people to
people work and service that needs to
be done. We were reminded (or told
for the first ime) that we have lost
something of the concern of those we
emulate with our hair.

For the most part, we took from
these first counter-voices what
pleased us: the clothes, the music, the
dope, the weekend morality- the trap-

pings and we ignored a good bit of
ackbone.

We straighten out the part in the
middle of our heads, curse tangles.
count coins, and plan summer to be
an economic boom. And only a few
are left who know there even was a
Davidson Peace Coalition, and who's
that funny guy with the black tie and
peace symbol? We hoped Dick
Gregory would tell a lot @ good jokes,
and faintly remembered something
about hunger strikes.

And we were served a compliment
that may take time to deserve. We
‘‘young folks” were told not how dull
we have become but how we are the
hope of tomorrow. We're not afraid,
the man says, but how many of us
quake when the grades hit the mail?
We were kindly treated, but we can’t
congratulate ourselves for a good
while yet.

An ideal was presented with Dick
Gregory on stage. An ideal of a man
who takes a good hard look around
him and really thinks (rightly or
wrongly) about what he sees. A man
who first gets to know a
neigborhood’s running paths and
takes thoughtful care of himself.
Moreover, a man who cares for us,
hopes for us, and stirs something
anew in us as he tells us what we can
do today and tomorrow. Not a relic
from a thunder-bright past, but a
powerful slinger of electric bolts of
conscience right now. We do indeed,
as he says, have a quite job ahead of
us.

No More Neutrality

Until this past week, the Vice-
President had been keeping his
distance from the White House with
regard to the Watergate issue.

But now, Gerald Ford has begun to
proclaim the innocence of the
President, doing so before even
finishing the ipts himself.

Ford’s rationale for his sudden
wholehearted belief in the President’s

We are very di that the
Vice-President would take a stand
the , following in the

take. But we think not. 7
To quote the Vice-President’s own

words, ‘‘All I am interested in is the
evidence. The truth is the truth.”” We
feel that he might take stock of the en-
tire transcripts that Nixon has
released, as well as keeping his op-
tions open with regard to the tapes
— have still not been accounted
or.

Ford’s attitude toward the press at
his recent news conference in
Charlotte was not the most ap-
propriate for a man in his position. He
appeared to be on the defensive, a
position that he would not have had to
experience had he held to his neutral
stand of some weeks past.

But now Ford has claimed that the
transcripts, still unverified, com-
pletely clear the President of any and
all involvement in the Watergate
coverup, including “hush money”

yments.

It is still too early for anyone to
pronounce judgement on _ the
President. We think Ford should
reconsider his stand regarding the in-

nocence of the President. For that

point is far from proven.

Faculty Guest Column

Ecology Decisions
Face Mankind

By DAVID C. GRANT
Professor Of pear nerf tien $ series of

r is near ection for a

Sometimes when me went xture of feelings that contains
three or four days. | sense . that this is just
some elements of a depressing nature lam sure a J
a reflection of my attitude toward the attitude o! uman
species as a whole
with the annual rejuvenation process rapidly restoring a

he neighborhood, the temperature high
healthy green hue to the neig nd the
enough to elicit the onset of air conditioning al cloudless che
sky a brilliant blue. a certain amount of all's right wi
world’: attitude is understandable As long as things appear
healthy in our immediate surroundings why go looking for
trouble? We. as individuals and in our variously sized
groupings. tend to think in short range terms and in narrow in-

rests

There is another disquieting aspect to what I perceive as a
general human attitude This 1s seen in our tendency to ignore a
situation for as long as possible and then to overcompensate in
our reaction to it if in fact we react at

I was concerned during the early sixties that mankind as a
species could apparently be totally unaware of its ecological im-
pact on the rest of the world | was even more concerned during
the early Earth Day activities and demonstrations because of
the rate at which we were supposedly becoming aware of our en-
vironmental responsibility. and the effect which the misuse of
ecological theory might have on the long range attitude of the
species Homo sapiens

Ecology became the fad which our worst fears had an-
ticipated. When it was apparent that the world was not going to
disintegrate during a forty-eight hour period, the frequent
response was a lethargy and disinterest more profound than the
original unenlightened state In this context I believe the ‘‘doom-
monger” school of environmental activism-may have done more
harm than good.

The fact that nature exhibits a remarkable resilience and
ability to recover from stress, coupled with our present inability
to accurately predict responses of living systems because of our
inadequate understanding of large scale natural systems came
as no surprise to ecologists. It was however. a justification for
disenchantment with the hard realities of an increased en-
vironmental responsibility on the part of a large number of
people.

With all due respect to Buckminster Fuller, our technology
will only be able to bail us out if we want it to and then only if we
are willing to make the necessary trade-offs

I view the Rocky River Research Project currently being
established by the Center for Honors Studies as a means of
helping a large number of people better understand the options
in one type of trade-off that is an example of the type of hard
decision making that is going to be more prevalent in the future

The project has other obvious benefits such as providing an
Opportunity for joint student faculty. interdisciplinary re-
searcn: building a sense ot community and common purpose a-
mong the students in special programs in the Honors Center.
and offering one avenue for incorporating students not currently
in the Center in a phase of the Center's activities. In addition to
these laudable goals. I am hopeful that the study will provide
much more. .

I am optimistic that the data to be collected over a two year
yeriod beginning next September will enable us to propose a
dlan of comprehensive water use for the Rocky River water-
capa Tere may think this naive but I feel that we have the
: ity and opportunity during this current prepara
and the pilot project this summer to identify Peebles arece in
the Clolegical. chemical, ecenemic and political spheres and

these problems can be a i :
of the project. dequately studied during the course

The reason that I am optimistic is that through the Center we
have students and faculty with interests and abilities in the

areas necessary to not only analyze the river for its current
health but to probe the roots of the economic and political forces
that have encouraged the development of a problem of these
Proportions. It is only in this way that a proposal can be made
that will have the slightest chance of being accepted by the
ett chou be amar ceencribed in the first

It should be apparen now that the completion of the Rocky
River Research Project will really be just the first step. To be
useful, it will have to be acceptable to the human species as an
example of a new strategy with respect to utilization of resour-
ces. It should also be obvious that neither I nor the Center, nor
the College is out head hunti or looking for a scapegoat. I
personally have the feeling that I know where the greatest share
of the blame lies. To paraphrase what was a stated several
years ago by Pogo, “‘we have met the enemy pst Fa areus.”

One of the greatest problems that faces the human species
today is that of decision making that involves consequences for
the species as a whole. In a small way we will

a y have the op-
portunity in this area to try to get at the crux of such a situation.
at ce maice for a river system is to use it as an open sewer and
© present, as consumers seeking the lowest cost goods; as

“ee that choice.
ices be made on the basis of the greatest * ood"’ for
ee number right now and in the short run or ehould

ings be done simply because they are “right’’? In either case
now do we decide what is “‘good”’ or ‘right’? .
