F our March 15. 1874

Ger Savidecniar

MODE

TO MEMBERS OF THE DAVIDSON FACULT?
ADMINISTRATION and STUDENTS
Trt expanter aC ne. commitiet appomiet P in
Trustess mo 1ST: w reveew tee overall governance
structure of tee coliege ant w make recenm
menGauenm: nat nev reachet : pom @ Ht
Geliperatem when t would like w TevIey 2 specifac
tee ftacuks a6

® Mare 2)

Tree commie: © mcimet w recemment w tet
‘Trustee: tha: 2 mew cencem 2 Celiege Comstiutuen
& sQeprIee Proveket Ii member cencimet ate tet
meeung: en March 2) tha: thm secs wil) neve the
supper. o tet facut’ s@mmstvative persenne! ant
STMGQeTIIS

4 @rat of 2 Celiege Comstnuuer © attached ior
vew conssieratien bk will Be subjec. w revue 0
ine gm eo suggesuent anc sez: which flew trom
tm March =) meetames:

l' « Coliege Cemstimuen & agepret along the me:
oe tne Graf. the cemstmvem pedie: will Be expectet
u medi: tee Comstnumuent ant B:-Lew: unde”

Te sQentit: tne areas of college BoveTnanc*

2 le crease « sumpiifeet goevertuance structure
wmicr give: tecui’ sQmmsirauen ant siu@ent:
vespeciiven < prima™ vert amt ¢ cite’ resper
sipiix’ m tm areet wrere cech mat ¢ primam™
teTes.

2 Te estapiss: + gevernance preceaure which
t preperrn iehewec wil taciimaie geet com
mumcatsen ament tht Trustees tm Presigem of

forma! prier censuhkation with the Fecuh:
Executive Cemmittee. 28 they ere now

‘3 ip al other areas of college acuvr: m»
cluding 2 fiscal persemme! and Gevelopmen: 2‘

Lt

|
|
|
t
E

Conunumng approval of the Trustees
Trustees .
Article I
Administration

1 Composition. The centra) Admmuistration of the
Coliege is vested im the offices of Presidem. Vice
Presidem for Academac Affairs. Vice President for
Finance anc Developmem and such subordinate of-
fices as mzy from time to time be proposed by the
Presidem and approved by the Trustees (Provided
that all offices im existence at the effective date o1
tms Constituuen are confirmed as they exis: until
ahered or abolished im accordace with this Con-
sutunon

2) Appointments and Terms. The President is

consultations with Faculty. students and the ad-
ministrative staff im carryimg out their Committee
funcnon. Other admunistrative officers are ap
poimted by the Trustee upon nommation of the
Presidem. They serve for such terms and upon
such conditions as may be proposed by the

ST

TUTION

residem and approved by the Trustees
_ Faculty Consukation and Advice The ac-
amen abolsnen or significant change of the Ufficec!
Vice-President for Academic Affairs. Vice-
Presiden for Finance and Development Dean of
Student: Hegistrar Director of the Library. or
Dean of the Center for Honors Studes anc the
nomination by the President or persons to be any of
the foregoing administrative officers of the College
mz) be Gone onl) efter consultataon by the Prsidemt
with the Executive Commuttee of the Faculty The
written advice of the Faculty Execuuve Com-
muttee shal) accompany every such proposal or
nomination by the President which be grves to the
Trustees Provided that al] admumstratrve offices
and ther occupants as of the effectrve date of thus
Constituuen are confirmed without requirement of
such advice
4 General Powers and Duties The President is
the chef executive officer of the College and Charr-
man of the Faculty He is responsible to the
Trustees for achievernent of the stated purposes of
the College and for its ongommg operations. and to
this end he shal] have the foregoing general powers.
the specific powers given him in other Arucies of
tms Constitunon. and all powers commen!)
associated with and-regired for the discharge of the
dunes of a chef executive officer of e college He
represents the College in its relavonships with
related associations. other imsttuonms the news
media. government agencies. alumni anc the
genera] public He organizes and directs ac-
mumstrative officers in the performance of their
assigned duties He is a member of the Faculty anc
is enutled to preside at its forma] meetings He
reports periodically to the Trustees on the condion
of the College, and proposes pragrams and courses
of action requiring Trustee approval
The Vice-Presidents hae the powers and dunes
delegated to them by the President. Other offices of
administration have the powers and duties
delegated to them from time to time by that Vice
President charged by the President with respon-
sibility for supervising their particular functions of
(5) Information on Administrative Organization
The President shall maintainat all times ina Callege
Registry a general table of administrative

available for inspection by any Faculty member.
administrative officer, employee or student of the
College in the offices of central administration
during regular business hours.

Article I]
The Faculty

(1) Compesitien. The Faculty consists of all per-
Sons who are employed on a full-time basis by the
teach halftime or more at the College.

designates. The faculty elects from its teaching
Faculty membership a Vice-Chairman of the
Faculty who presides in the absence of the
fasident and the Vice-President for Academic Af-
‘S$ or at such other times as the President so
designates The Vice-Charman of the Faculty ser-
ves as a representative of the Faculty with the Ad-
ministration and performs such other funcctions as
are specified in this Constitution The Vice
is Selected from the tenured Faulty for a

Upon motion of any teaching Faculty
) member
passed by 2/3 vote of all members of the Faculty
aggre the Faculty convenes in executive session
om anaars of any matter specified in the
(3) Meetin gs and Proceedings: By-l
Faculty ordinarily meets tenth’ and im eng
pen pr peenx as may be called. The times and
oes ¢ regular meetings. the provistans for-cail
