The Bavidsonian = March 15, 1974

Five

iia naa ae

sa LTO GIL SLAP His PME CSR RES

of special meetings, and the procedures to be
followed in its meeting are as provided in the agen-
da for each Faculty meeting shall be circulated at
least 48 hours prior to the The Faculty is
authorized to adopt By-Laws, s, subject to Trustee ap-
proval, for its organization and proceedings not in-
consistent with this Constitution. Administrative of-
ficers may be designated by the Faculty to attend
Faculty meetings with the privileges of the floor but
without the privilege of voting. Guests may attend
Faculty meetings at the discretion of the presiding
officer. The President of the Student Body shall be

ceantasly Sevited te attand Fondly mestans with

priveleges of the
privilege of voting.

(4) Powers. The Faculty has general respon-
sibility for the planning
Educatonal Program and Policy of the College as
defined in Article III.

(5) Committees. Committees of the Faculty shall
include an Executive Committee and such other
committees as the Faculty may deem appropriate
to the discharge of those legislative powers con-
ferred upon it under the articles of this Constitution.
Subject to the ex-officio memberships and other
conditions stated in this section 5, the Faculty may
by its By-Laws or by resolution provide for com-
mittees of such sizes, with such qualifications of
membership, such terms of membership, and such
modes of selecting members as it deems ap-
propriate. The Faculty may, from time to time,

elect special Commissions to undertake tasks which
do not easily fall under the jurisdiction of regular
comittees, provided that the charge, scope, and
tenure of such Commissions are stated.
The President the Vice-President for Academic Af-
fairs, and the Dean of Students are members of the
Executive Committee, with the President serving
as Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the Faculty
serving as Coordinator. The President and the
Vice-President for Academic Affairs are ex-officio

i Program
Policy as defined in Article III. Students shall be
on all F Committees dealing
sagetel on, ail Sony Comndenes Gating
tion 1, with the exception of items c, e, and j.

A list of the committees of the Faculty with their
memberships and brief descriptions of their respec-
tive powers and functions, shall be maintained by
the Secretary of the Faculty in the College Registry.

(6) Communication with the Trustees. By a

or any standing committee of the Faculty, may
petition the Trustees for direct action in respect of
any matter substantially affecting the fundamental
interests of the College. Prior to submission to the
Prior to submission to the Trustees, the petition

must be presented to the President by the Vice-
Chairman of the Faculty. It shall be the duty of the
President to transmit such report or petition to the

Article III
Educational Policy

(1) Definition of Scope. The ‘educational
program and policy of the College’ is defined as con-
sisting of the College’s (a) curricula, curriculum
requirements, and academic standards; (b) in-
ternational study programs; (c) formal programs
for and (d)
Sta rar og

initiated academic departments: (i) deter-
mination requirements and standards of the
physical education including intramural
sports; (j) determination of the academic

to be applied in the admission of
students.

(2) Basic Responsibility. Responsibility for the
formulation and implementation of Educational
Program and Policy is reposed, subject to
provisions herein for Trustee review, in the Faculty
acting in conjunction with officer of central ad-
ministration in accordance with succeeding sections
of this Article.

(3) Formulation and Implementation. The
President and Vice-President for Academic Affairs
share with the Faculty responsibility for

apesios ™ mapa pw Program and Policy.

made through the appropriate com-
mittees of the Faculty, for legislative action. The
President, the Vice-President for Academic Affairs,
and such other administrative officers, Faculty and
Staff members as may be designated by them are
responsiable for the orderly implementation of
nor eas Program and Policy adopted by the

or Any Educational Program or
Policy adopted by the Faculty may be submitted by
the President to the Trustees for review and ap-
proval prior to its implementation. When any
Educational Program or Policy adopted by the
Faculty is under review by the Trustees, the ap-
propriate committee of the Faculty, as designated
by the Vice-Chairman of the Faculty Pre Tem, may
submit in writing a statement concerning the
program or policy. The Trustees may invite oral

policy.
and Policy in
effect.upon the effective date of this Constitution is

confirmed until altered or superseded by action un-
der this Constitution. ).

Article IV
Fiscal, Personnel
And Development Affairs

cluding the powers: 1) to institute and carry out per-
sonnel policies for the employment, compensation,
working conditions and discharge of academic em-
ployees (subject to provisions of Article X) and non-
re employees; 2) to prepare, submit for

budgets 3) to recommend and administer the

collection and expenditure of student fees and
tuition subject to the provisions of section 2 of Ar-
ticle XI; 4) to solicit, receive and invest funds for
operation and endowment of the College; 5) to em-
ploy the necessary College personnel; 6) to submit
to the Trustees and to implement upon their ap-
proval proposals for specific action, general

' programs and policies within this area of respon-

sibility; and 7) to maintain adequate financial and
personnel records. In discharge of this respon-
sibility he is empowered to delegate to other ad-
ministrative officers specific and duties.

cil for Finance, ‘Personnel and Development con-

‘sists of six teaching members of the Faculty and

three students designated in such manner as their

b) Function. The Council is advisory to the
President and his delegated administrative officers
in this area of responsibility. At least three times
each academic year, in the Fall, Winter and Spring
at times set by the President, the Council meets
with the President or his delegates to receive re-

Article V
Admissions And
Financial Aid
(1) Definition. Admissions and Financial Aid are
ceed ameaontee

conditions for deterining admissions to the 4
ne ae including the
efforts to attract ap- _

selection process;
_Plicants for admission; andthe setermination of
