Che Dauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLLTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”

-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

MARCH 29, 1974

Student Input

The Davidson College Self-study
program is now engaged in the heart
of its work. Some comments are due
on the extent of student participation
in this study.

Ten years ago, students were in-
corporated on an informal basis.
Student viewpoints were assessed on
a general basis, and the formal work
of the study was conducted by faculty
and administration. The Visiting
Committee made a very conscious at-
tempt to meet with students and to
gain their opinions on the range of

The Visiting Committee, in
evaluating the college program,
made a very conscious attempt to
meet with students and to gain their
opinions on the range of college life.
Their proper concern has been
mirrored in the organization of the
present study.

In the present program. students
are incorporated at numerous levels.
Twelve different students are mem-
bers of six ‘out of a total of ten)
regular committees of the faculty and
administration. Committees such as
Educational Program. Physical
Plant. and Students are thus open to
direct student opinion. These students
should be commended for their work
and: their valuable representation of
students’ interests. The work of these
committees is targeted for com-
pletion on April 1.

By far the most potent source of
Student input has been the work of a
specially appointed Student Steering
Committee. The college Steering
Committee called for such a body ‘‘in
hopes of receiving from that com-
mittee a set of analyses and recom-
mendations concerning those facets
of life to which students can bring a
unique perspective."’ Such a concern
and action is to be commended.

Faculty

So the faculty killed the EPC
grading recommendations. After all
the student pushing and articulating,
they killed the move. In effect, their
decision says something to the tune of
‘“‘we’ll do the thinking around here.
You people should have stayed home
and saved your breath.”

It has been over a year since the
Senate ad hoc committee on grading
first began to pursue the grading
change. It was demonstrated that
Davidson’s grading policies in
respect to failed courses was extreme
in comparison with those of similar
colleges and universities. It was also
demonstrated that the present policy
takes its toll primarily on the fresh-
man class, however right or wrong

that is, depending on your point of
view.

The changes had been endorsed by
the Senate and | through the
Educational Policy Committee, but

This Student Steering Committee,
chaired by SGA President Blain But-
ner and consisting of 13 other studen-
ts, conducted a comprehensive study
of college life and delivered their
report to the Steering Committee on
March 19. In the course of this study,
163 students responded to a scien-
tifically random survey covering all
aspects of student life. Ap-
proximately 100 other students were
consulted in various forums. The op-
portunities for expression of student
opinion were numerous.

The Student Report is now in the
hands of the faculty program. It is
hoped that the various re: .m-
mendations will be seriously con-
sidered. An excellent feature of the
program is that this report will be for-
warded directly to the Visiting Com-
mittee. They will thus have access to
the formal compilation of student
opinion outside of the main report.

‘It is regrettable that the student
body has no easy access to this
report, for its concerns are vital to us
all. In reviewing educational policy, it
called for. among other things.
stronger non-professional programs
and consideration of major minor
systems. It scrutinized international
education programs and the religious
commitment of the college. It called
for a totally voluntary laundry and in-
creased psychological counseling.
suggested that a fulltime director of
the YM/ YWCA be hired. It called for
a positive emphasis on the honor
code, and the cultivation of a greater
sense of community within the
college.

It is hoped that the student interests
expressed in this report will be
heeded. The college is to be com-
mended for making a conscious effort
to incorporate student opinion
through various channels.

Output

apparently. those opinions don't
mean a thing.

We've thought and tried to come up
with some sort of rationale behind the
faculty vote, and we can't do it.
There’s no damn reason for that vote.

In addition though, to finishing off
the ‘F’ deletion proposal, the faculty
has sent the modified course with-
drawal system back to the EPC to be
watered down. The withdrawal
system devised within the EPC was a
conservative plan to allow the student
to withdraw from a course any time
during the term if he,she can
adequately demonstrate cause. It
would give the necessary leverage for
the student caught over his head
academically. And they sent it back.

All that can be said is that we hope
the EPC will not move from its for-
mer position and will keep the with-
drawal changes within reach in up-

coming years

Faculty Guest Column kt
Super Vision

By FRANK W. BLISS
Professor of English

end of Pilgrim at Tinker Creek Annie Dillard says about
the universe. Tere is nothing to be done about it, but ignore it
or see.”” Her statement suggests that once you start seeing you
cannot stop, and for Annie Dillard, who sees superbly, that
seems to be so. a _

But for many of us, who stop with seeing just a little, it is not
so. If we are to see more than we do we need help, and
sometimes to be helped we have to be shaken up, as we are when
we respond to Bruegel's ‘‘Landscape with the Fall of Icarus’’ or
to la belle verriére at Chartres when the sun shines through.

The modern poems | like best are about seeing. They're about
what may be seen with the sensesand made into words which can
change people. Toward the beginning of our century there was a
kind of poetry written called imagist. Imagist poems appeal to
the senses more than they do to the mind. Here is one by T. E.
Hulme, ‘‘Above the Dock’’:

Above the quiet dock in mid night, —
Tangled in the tall mast's corded height.
Hangs the moon. What seemed so far away
Is but a child’s balloon, forgotten after play.

You see the moon against a ship’s rigging, surprisingly like a
balloon. Occasionally comparisons are more complex, as in
William Carlos Williams’ ‘‘Flowers by the Sea’’, the pasture is
seen paradoxically as the sea, the sea as pasture.

When over the flowery, sharp pasture’s
edge, unseen, the salt ocean

lifts its form--chicory and daisies
tied, released. seem hardly flowers alone

but color and the movement--or the shape
perhaps—of restlessness—whereas

the sea is circled and sways
peacefully upon its plantlike stem

Restlessness and peace. restlessness in peace. peace in rest-

lessness.
The imagist poem can be more dynamic. as Wallace Stevens

narrative ‘‘Anecdote of the Jar suggests:
I placed a jar in Tennessee.
And round it was. upon a hill.
It made the slovenly wilderness
Surround that hill

The wilderness rose up to it.

And sprawled around. no longer wild
The jar was round upon the ground
And tall and of a port in air

It took dominion everywhere.
The jar was gray and bare

It did not give of bird or bush.
Like nothing else in Tennessee

That's a little obscure. a little difficult to get at right away.
perhaps. Imagine the jar (“gray and bare’’) upon the hill: listen
to the repeated sounds and words: notice the implications. The
poem helps you to see feelingly what happens when the made is
introduced into the natural. A century ago Thoreau told us that
‘in wilderness is the preservation of the world."’ Stevens’ poem
was written in 1919.

Among contemporary American poets I suppose I like Denise
Levertov's poems more than thoseof anyone else I canthink of as
I write this column, because her poems act out, they embody,
the oneness of life and art which she believes in deeply. Her

poems shake me up. Not only poets but also readers. she
believes. need to share her conviction.

“The obligation of readers. ’* she writes in a speech she gave in
1967 and published as “The Poet in the world.” is: nor to indulze
in the Avpoecrisy of merely vicarious experience. thereby reducing

lterature to. . .a frivolity. an irrelevance. .. .” If either the poet or

~ reader fails to see for himself, if he ignores the reality, he is
alake.

Here is one of Denise Levertov's peoms.

O Taste and See
The world is
not with us enough.
O taste and see

the subway Bible poster said,
meaning The Lord, meaning
if anything all that lives

to the imagination’s tongue,

grief, mercy, language,
tangerine, weather. to
breathe them. bite.

savor, chew, swallow, transform

into our flesh our

deaths, Crossing the street, plum, quince,
living in the orchard and being

hungry, and plucking
the fruit.

(See SUPER VISION, page 7)

