the davidsonian

October 31, 1975

—4

Evaluating the faculty wi

Faculty members at Davidson College cannot presently be sure
of the evaluating criteria the college will use in processing
requests for tenure. Outside of the general American Association
of University Professors guidelines, Davidson has no codified

procedure.

When John M. Bevan was serving as vice president for
academic affairs, he had his criteria distributed to the faculty,
insuring that each professor knew the evaluation methods being
used. Nonetheless, this was not a codified rule, but his persona!
procedure. It is not binding on the new academic vice president,

Frontis Johnson.

“I’m not bound to that unless I want to be, and I haven’t
decided yet whether I want to be or not,’’ Johnson said this week.

We feel that it’s time that he did. Johnson indicated that
evaluations by department chairmen, by some students, the office
of the president and academic vice president and the Trustee
Education Committee would figure in the process. We see the
necessity for evaluations from all these groups, and we think it
wise to adopt a statement guaranteeing input into this
decision-making process to each group.

There seems to be a general assumption at Davidson that the
primary responsibility of the faculty member is teaching rather
than scholarship. With recent production by the faculty in
publishing, it is hard to assume otherwise.

The emphasis placed on teaching demands strong evaluation
from those taught. We see a definite need in strong student
evaluation of professors, and we are skeptical as to the extent of
emphasis presently placed on student opinion.

One of the primary sources of student input lies in the SIR

reports, which faculty members are instructed to distribute to
each member of their classes. In recent years, at least several
members of the faculty have failed to distribute these forms as
directed. We do feel that these forms have value in determining
problem areas or strong aspects of a course and the professor’s
teaching methods. We urge the vice president for academic affairs

to see that this part of the student evaluation process is properly

carried out.

However, we do not feel that this anonymous evaluation is

sufficient, especially in situations where a professor is being
evaluated for tenure or promotion. There should be ample
opportunity for more direct evaluation by students regularly.

We urge the Faculty Executive Committee to consider
formalizing evaluation procedures, and we look to students to .
provide a significant critical voice in such evaluations.

ray)
a

The agony of student life

What’s a conservative to do?

the davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in

the image.”’--Kenneth Boulding
Mark Deaton. 5.455 ce? ee..

. Jeff Sich

Asti i, tee, «+. EGitor
Be eee. EN Business Manager

Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors

Matthew Covington..........

Andrew Lamas

Leon Venable: on. cre... eae :
JIMASITSNSONi oe ac. eee
Davidtirader.. 2. Sam. 3

PAC itis bse Executive Editor
CA et Senior News Editor
BG aw rs de Photography Editor
OCC “Per Oe aera Sports Editor
sige occ e Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.
Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Ensley addresse

To the Editor:

I’m writing this letter to thank and
congratulate the person whose great
idea it was to place a dumpster
between Wretcherds and Bailey
houses right in front of the path to
Patterson Court eating houses.

It shows that the Davidson stu-
dents have rights unavailable at other
institutions, in this case the right to
feel deliciously nauseous before and
after dinner.

I would like to propose a chance for
Davidson students to exercise this

wonderful right, by means of a
memorial dinner centered around the
dumpster, with honorable guest seats
for those people, be it Ron Scott or
others, who are directly responsible
for this great privilege. Anyone
interested please contact Sentelle
Basement.
James Koloditch ’76
Davidson College
To the Editor:

Recently I received a copy of The
Davidsonian, Volume LXV, Number
One which discussed the fact that the

Wallace antics confuse

campaign trail ’76 |

By BIFF KIRBY
Associate Editor

George Wallace has proved once
again that he can wheel and deal
anywhere, anytime. His ‘‘vast
knowledge of foreign affairs” notwith-
Standing, the effect of his visit to
Europe is to add to the confusion
facing conservative voters in the 1976
Presidential election.

Wallace's trip to Europe was
appgrently the idea of his campaign
advisors. He did not admit its
necessity. One wonders what kind of
control he exercises over his current
campaign.

Wallace reportedly depends on a
large campaign staff. This central
organization is now involved in
analysing Wallace's trip and its
impact on his campaign. Does the
candidate control the staff or vice

- versa?

1975 Quips and Cranks has yet to be
published.

It seems very peculiar to me that
your staff writer would write such an
article without contacting the main
source-the editor- to obtain the facts.
It also seems unusual that an editor
would allow such an article to go the
press without confirming the facts.

It seems that the article was based
upon the opinion of one of Quips and
Cranks staff members. My staff had
upwards of 15 members. Certain

statements made were not entirely
true.

The trip to Europe was highlighted
by Wallace’s ‘insensibility. He gave
Englishmen a monumentally patroni-
zing reminder of their country’s
decline from world power, among
other things. Are such ratuitous
inanities supposed to raise Wallace’s
appeal to American voters?

What's a conservative to do ? Mr.
Ford proposes a redistributive tax
plan. Mr. Wallace regales the world
with his vast ignorance. Meanwhile,
back in North Carolina, Jesse Helms
waves the flag for Ronald Reagan.

And in Washington, the Democrats
fight to hold the lid on military
spending, opposed by a bellicose and
uncritical president. Aren't Demo-
crats congenitally wasteful?

Perhaps the motto of conservative
politicking in this election should be
this: Confuse them enough and
they’ll vote for anybody.

S yearbook delay

I suggest that before another
article is published on this subject
that I be contacted. My address is not
unknown to my parents, my friends,
or my staff.

Carroll Ensley ’75
Davidson College —

LETTERS

Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices by
Sunday night will ordinarily
be printed that week.

