The Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces
in the image.” 8 ae
--Kenneth Boulding
Mark Deaton, Editor

Andrew Lamas Larry Mimms

Executive Editor Managing Editor

“a

FOUR MAY 2. 1975

Statement of Student Rights

Lad

The Board of Trustees Governance Committee returned the
Statement of Student Rights yesterday to subcommittee for the
second time. Areas of discussion on which the committee could
not reach concensus include the media and assembly sections of
the Statement of Students Rights. Unfortunately, there appear to
be unresolved questions as to what extent the college is willing to
guarentee students basic freedoms of the press,:expression, and
assembly

Such freedoms are guarenteed to members of the Davidson
College faculty in the new college constitution, article X. There,
the statement is made that Davidson College is fully committed to
the principles of academic freedom as formulated in the 1940
Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure. This
document prominently states that professors as citizens and
members of an academic community are guaranteed freedom of
expression and press. A reminder of the responsibilities of a
professor, that he is not a spokesman for the college and that
others may make judgements on the college based on his actions,
are included. ;

Students, likewise, would welcome a commensurate statement
of their rights and responsibilities as members working within the
college community.

We remind the committee, however, that the statement will be
interpreted through the regulations and provisions of subordinate
documents which must be considered simultaneously. Careful and
precise language in the statement is rendered worthless if other
provisions impinge upon the rights and responsibilities granted
and assured in the constitution.

The fulfillment of a document of trust lies in the tension and
balance among the interests of the various segments of the com-
munity. The balance is formed in the political life of the com-
munity, not in qualified assertions of basic rights. A statement of
rights and responsibilities is not the place to constrain the agents.
A principle weakly stated is less than useless; it is a deception.

We urge the Governance Committee to affirm the basic human
rights of students in the language of the statement. An awareness
of the responsibilities of students to the community is certainly in
order; strictures are not.

The basic question facing the Governance Committee remains
one of whether students will be recognized as citizens and equal
members of the community. If students are not so recognized and
accorded appropriate protection and respect through such a
statement of rights, we hope that every Davidson student will
have the personal integrity to leave a college which only purports
to treat students as responsible adults. With students eager to ac-
cept responsibilities as members of this community. we see no
reason for such a situation to arise.

The Trustee Governance Committee deserves a great deal of
praise and appreciation for their careful consideration of the
Statement of Student Rights. We hope and expect that the com-
mittee will have drafted the final Statement of Students Rights at
their May 23 meeting for approval by the Board of Trustees in Oc-
tober.

Union labor

With the opening of the new College Union next year, the college
community anticipates a greater diversity and amount of social
and cocurricular programming for 1975-76 than has been possible
in the cramped facilities in the Carnegie Building.

We encourage the College Union Board to develop its program
as completely as possible for fall quarter of the next academic
year. We agree with Assistant Director of the College Union Russ
Kushigan that students should be presented with a complete
calendar of Union and community events before the beginning of
each academic term.

After the 1975 Spring Frolics Weekend, one of the best run ‘‘ big
weekends’’ in the past three years, the Union Board should have
the momentum to program events for next vear before students
leave for Summer vacations.

Ee ire: =o BS GS ' {Hip

Aleing campus suffers
Emerging alcohol ethic

“They loiter away their Lives, like
Solomon’s Sluggard, with their Arms
across,.and at the Winding up of the
Year Scarcely have Bread to Eat.

“To speak the truth, tis a thorough
aversion to Labor that makes People file
off to N Carolina, where Plenty and a
Warm Sun confrim them in their
Disposition to Laziness for their whole
Lives.”’

-William Byrd

I’m glad to see the school is finally
living up to its potential; we can’t
reclaim the once verdant golf course
which is now mostly overgrown with
cross country trails, but at least last
weekend we had an upsurge of old time
relaxation.

Except for a few pedants entangled in
their note cards, most students went out
and acted like fools, helped ably by the
copious quantities of free beer.

Now free handouts are very appealing
but I feel a constant tumult from the
graves of our staid founding fathers as
keg after keg is openend and drunk-
except in the football stands.

Whether Davidson realizes it or not, it
has created a beer ethic and enshrined it
just as snugly as the statement of pur-
pose. Perhaps those in the know think
they are saving the campus from worse
things, your basic lesser evil stance.

This ‘‘moral gauze’’. covered all of
freshman orientation except the cake
race which can’t be touched because it’s
tradition.

One did not push a mangy boat in the
“Frosh Regatta’ for God, for Country,
or even for Entertainment, but for a
keg of beer.

The parties on Patterson Court held
out their juciest inducement, free beer,
and we were told that it’s not really hard
to get a keg from the school for--ah--

Letter to the Editor

party puposes, plus there’s always Hat-
tie’s Thursday night. Personally, if
someone’s going to hold something in
front of my nose to make me go, I'd
rather it be a carrot.

Still I’m not going to stop others from
guzzling beer and making their beer
bellies, and I applaud the societies
which have created the option of beer or
soft drinks as prizes.

But the final straw was last week’s
blood drive. Alright winos, college
alcoholics--here it is—the dorm with the
most donated blood gets a keg of beer,
an offer which conjures up pictures of
diseased tramps selling blood in ghetto
stations and eventually killing your
cousin’s baby. Now the question is, if
the prize had been a $30 gift certificate
redeemable at a book store, would there
have been as much excitement?

Well, let’s say yes and stop the foun-
ding fathers from their turning, but who
realty believes it?

Just once perhaps, it would be nice if
with the eternal keg of beer Davidson
College would give me and the other
deviants a Coke or a Sprite, or at worst
Kool Aid. I at least don’t have to prove
my macho to the campus.

After I wrote this article, I heard that
Hattie’s burned. Somebody up
there is listening.

Letter to the Editor

Fan applauds
Baseball win

To the Editor:

Being one of a handful (pity) of alum-
ni who enjoy baseball at Davidson, I
would like to congratulate the team ona
superb win against South Carolina. I
know that they feel an inner satisfaction
from their accomplishment, as_ out-
ward praise and publicity are non-
existent.

South Carolina, 34-3 previous to this
loss and ranked highly in polls, saw an
excellent example of determination and
quiet confidence combine to stun them.

Maybe someday Davidson itself, and
more specifically, sports information,
will notice victories like this one in
baseball, and give a good group of
dedicated ballplayers the recognition
they deserve.

Congratulations to the team and to
Coach Wade from, an old captain and
loyal follower of Davidson baseball.
Captain Jack.

Keep pluggin’
Jack Willits °73
Myrtle Beach; S.C.

Wilensky takes issue
with Davidsonian news

To the Editor:

Because I feel that The Davidsonian
has abdicated its position on campus as
the voice of information. I must resign
my position with the staff.

Much as I had to withdraw from the
mast head when the editorial position of
the paper became intolerable to my
principles, I must now leave due to vour
news policy. :

Recent events on campus have gone
uncovered because the editor feels it is
within his responsibility to participate
(both with administration and student
officials) in a “grand design”’ for David-
son College.

I cannot accept the attitude that now
prevails, one of ‘‘tell them what they
need to know only when they need to
know it.”’ When a paper becomes merely
the information piece of campus

BU Bia |

politicians (again both student and ad-
ministration), it is not living up to its
responsibilities.

Mr. Editor, you promosed a gadfly.
We’ve got only your personal Update. It
is your charge and absolute respon-
sibility to get out of the political areana,
out of the arena of protection for your
friends on the SGA and in the ad-
ministrative staff, and back to being a
newsman.:

The students want. need, and pay, to
read a paper reporting all the news that
is news when it is news. regardless of its
political impact.

The editorial page is for your opinion.
The news pages are being violated by
vour selective reporting of the news.

Mark Wilensky '76
Davidson College
