March 20, 1975

The Davidsonian

Seven

Dylan Leaves ‘Blood On The Tracks ’

By RUSSELL CARTER
Staff Writer

Bob Dylan’s new album, “Blood on the Tracks,”’ is

definitely the most powerful and personal work of art
he has recorded in several years.

Dylan is writing stories about himself again, full of ©

allusive symbolism and rich imagery, in which he ex-
plores the past experiences that have molded his con-
sciousness and created for him periods of both
pleasure and pain..."

Musically, he relies chiefly on his own voice (which
is richer arid more confident than ver), his acoustic
guitar, and his harmonica to convey his emotions and
iGGagi Ce Sir rai elaee

‘The’ overall picture represented in the album is one -
of a lone individual who has struggled to establish a
permanent loving relationship in,this world, but has
pers led. He is now.painfully and at times bit- :
erly A

“tangled up im blue” ..

-One can grasp the importance of this album best by
viewing it in relationship to the last six Dylan albums,
excluding the Columbia outlake and soundtrack
albums: So, briefly, we must consider Dylan’s work
starting with his ninth album, ‘John Wesley Har-
ding.”’

The main theme in J.W.H. is one of self-discovery.
Evident in the series of parables Dylan created is his
rejection of the roles he had played in the past (e.g.
political activist, social protester, drug crusader,
modern-day Christ...), for, as he wrote in ‘‘All Along

my heart’’). and inevitably left him lonely, on the run,

the Watchtower”’, ‘‘let us not speak falsely now, the-

hours getting late.’’ He seemed to be saying that life is
too brief to be wasted worrying about society’s
delusions.

‘He then writes of a new faith he has found which he
expresses with deceptive simplicity in love songs such
as ‘‘Down Along the Cove.”’ As Anthony Scaduto points
out in his Dylan biography, the message at the joyful
end of J.W.H. seems to be that “only within love can
man deal-with a depth of reality that is akin to faith.”’

In a series of songs celebrating love beginning on
“Nashville Skyline’ and continuing through ‘‘Planet
Waves,’’ Dylan underlines this basic concept. On
“Nashville Skyline’ and ‘‘Self Portrait’ there is not
slightest hint of bitterness in Dylan’s voice, and he is
pictured as a happy and healthy country gentleman.

In 1970, Dylan recorded ‘‘New Morning’’. The
general tone of this album is one of optimism based on
his everlasting love affair with his wife Sarah whom he
praises in songs like ‘“‘If Not For You’.

-But for the first time in years, Dylan appears to
question his happy existence. In ‘‘Sign on the Window’’
he draws a picture of a happy family situation and then
sings in a definitely questioning tone, ‘“‘That must be
what it’s all about.’’

In “‘Three Angels’ Dylan wonders why people seem
to ignore the voices of the angels-- an inner spiritual
reality. It is his first comment on mankind’s blindness
since 1967.

In 1971, Dylan released Volume II of his greatest hits.
This action, coupled with his Bangla Desh concert ap-
pearance (in which he sang many old protest songs)
and his major tour in 1974 (in which he sang songs from
“Before the Flood’’ or pre-1966) suggested Dylan was
becoming dissastified with his secluded life with his
family.

In his 1971 single release ‘‘Watching the River
Flow,’ Dylan almost comes right out and states his
dissatisfaction. The lines ‘‘wish I were back in the city,
instead of on this bank of sand” seem to imply that he
was ready to shift positions-- to be freewheelin’ once
again. Certainly the reference to sand suggests im-
permanence. :

But then in ‘“‘Planet Waves” Dylan reconfirms his
faith in Sarah, the one person who gives his life
meaning. In ‘‘Wedding Song”’ he sings ‘‘ever since you
walked right in the circle’s been complete.’’ And his
love is one that ‘‘doesn’t cease”’ and ‘‘will not bend.”’

In several songs, however, he does comment on the
decrepit state of western society, as in “Dirge’’ when
he sings

So sing vour praise of progress.
And of the doom machine.
The naked truth is still taboo
Whenever it can be seen.

This criticism is continued on ‘Blood on the Tracks’’
in the song “Idiot Wind”’ in' which Dylan’s voice is filled
with beautiful ‘‘Blonde on Blonde’’ bitterness.

He sings of an American Wasteland through which
an idiot wind blows “like a circle around my skull/

- from the Grand Coulee Dam to the Capitol.’’ To Woody
Guthrie the dam was a symbol of our country’s great-
ness. Now when Dylan speaks of America and ‘‘all (its
ragin’ glory’’, his words drip with sarcasm. i

By the end of the song, Dylan begins to include him-
self in his criticism. He sings ‘‘We are idiots babe/ It’s
a wonder we can even feed ourselves.’’ It seems that
the winds have gotten to Dylan, even past the security
of his once guarded family life.

Path aii inca tiie edit eet ee eee ea the ctr cect four crt ti teat aoe Sac t ESE Teh ACU GhITu ses Catt Luni Tati camte Cuter icine CST Veaey Cerritery sc ttt eter eer Ot eneeee

ly Fe-examiihing the “fixtures and forces’™ which. ~
have worked againsthis efforts (‘like a corkscrew to’

In “Wedding Song” Dylan had sung that because of
Sarah he could “‘say good-bye to haunted rooms and
people in the street,” but now on “Blood on the Tracks”’
he sings of her offering him ‘‘Shelter From the Storm”
in the past tense. Suddenly, Dylan is singing of ‘‘old
men with broken teeth stranded without love” and of
the ‘one-eyed undertaker who blows a futilehorn.”

_‘Now there’s a wall between us,’’ he sings. and ob-
viously, “‘something has been lost.’’ Dylan recognizes
now that “‘beauty walks a razor’s edge (but still hopes
that ) someday I’ll make her-mine,” but this seems as
futile'as his wish that he could “turn back the eléck”’ to
the innocence of time ‘‘when God and her were born”.

In “You’re Gonna Make Me Lonesome When’ You
Go” a happy voice describes a new love he’s found.
Dylan describes something powerful he has going now
that humbles the world outside around him even if it
does resemble the terrifically ugly one he described in
the mid-sixties (when he was influenced by the French
Symbolist poets like Rimbaud).

Situations have all been sad.

Relationships have all been bad.

Mine have been like Verlaine and Rimbaud.
But there's no way Tecan compare

All those scenes to this affair...

One can tell by the tone of his voice and by his playful
harmonica notes that Dylan’s enjoying every minute
he has with his girl. oe

It is clear, however, that he knows that, in this world
anyway, he can experience only glimpses of this
feeling, embodied in relationships with various people
in unknown places and at unpredictable times.

We can’t escape sharing his mixed emotions when he
admits to himself that this affair will fade away and all
he can dois

Look for vou in old Honolulu
San Francisco or Ashtabula
Youre gonna have to leave me now [know
but Pil see you in the sky above
; f Fo
In the tall grass
In the ones Tlove
Youre gonna make me lonesome when vou go

_ The only consolation Dylan offers to counter his

pessimism is to remind us that everyone is in the same
predicament. As he sings, ‘‘we all did feel the same
way, we just started from a different point of view”
and we are all ‘‘tangled up in blue.”’

But since this is true there will always be moments
when situations come together beautifully-- when there
are

© Flowers on the hillside bloomin’ crazy &
Cricketstalkin’® back and forth in rhyme
Blue river runnin’ slow W lasy
Tecould stay with you forever...

Dylan knows that it’s just a matter of waiting ‘‘one
more time for a simple twist of fate’’ for the magic in-
stant when ‘‘we meet again onthe Avenue.”’

As Pete Hamill mentions in the liner notes, Dylan’s
art is much more than plainly stated journalism; it is
“the most democratic form of creation.’’ Dylan’s sym-
bols and images provide guidelines for us, but we must
fill in the spaces from our own experiences. In the
process his songs become our songs as well. “Blood on
the Tracks’*is one album to live with for a long time.

Summer Job Opportunity

The Prelaw Committee will be publishing a
Prelaw Handbook for Davidson students this sum-
mer, and the position of editor is available.
Requirements: junior or senior student who plans to
enter law school and has interests in a legal career;
ability to write well; reside in or near Davidson for
a portion of the summer. The job is expected to take
approximately six weeks but may be handled! as a
part-time job during the entire summer.
Honorarium of $500 will be paid.

Apply in writing by April 1, 1975 to Professor R. L.
Avinger. Application should be a written statement,
not-to exceed one typewritten double-spcaed page,
in which the applicant’s writing ability, interests,
and other relevant capabilities are demonstrated.
This should be a unique opportunity for the serious

| D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Karen Black

FIVE EASY PIECES

Friday, March 21 .
8 & 10:30 P:M.

prelaw or law student.

Jack Nicholson

; ‘Love
$1.00

