December 5, 1975

4 the davidsonian

Davidson Y

demands vibrant

leadership

An.unfortunate by-product of the disorganization that has
been strangling the Davidson YM/YWCA this year is
buck-passing. An unwillingness to take responsibility for the
current state of the Y pervades not only the student body at
large, but also the elected office members of the Y cabinet.

The cabinet meetings this year have oeen described as
“informal” and disorganized.” One prominent officer has
attended no more than one meeting all year. Another officer
describes the meeting situation “where everyone stands
around waiting for someone to tell him what to do, but no one

ever says to do anything.”

Cutting a low profile

In the past year, the Y has cut the lowest profile in its history
in the Davidson community. The Davidson citizenry can hardly
be expected to foster an image of the Y as the major vehicle of
Christian outreach in the community if the Y leaders fail to
project that image.

The probiems facing the Y have not appeared as suddenly as
may first appear. For the past four years, members have
experienced decreasing contact with other board members.
The cabinet members have become preoccupied with their
individual programs such as STEP, boy scouts, or the Ada
Jenkins.recreation program, and less aware of the total Y
program.

In farming students out to community programs, the Y has
failed to maintain an identity of its own. And without that
identity, it has become extremely difficult to attract volunteers
to work in community programs or even to raise funds.

Establishing an identity

We look to the present cabinet and the officers to be
elected next week to establish a strong identity for the Y. We
feel a strong platform for the Y would include a : :
highly-publicized series of discussions, many with outside
speakers’ leading, to examine the social and religious issues
facing acommunity striving for spirituality.

Another important goal includes making better use of the
Depot, establishing the town youth coffee house which has
been in a two year planning stage.

In addition, better coordination of the present service
programs, including a strong recruiting drive for student
volunteers and active publicity, would begin to put the Y back
in the minds of Davidson citizens as a vibrant force in building
community at Davidson within a Christian context.

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in
the image.’”--Kenneth Boulding

NRE on 5505 3 aie, 265 %p waves Vieseledals- sue ie 0 aaeeiig aeeieaeaee Editor
ia ie toi ed ai ceiciegs eA Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
REM OMACION: . ss. eso esc ks bs ble ee Executive Editor .
ss inks og oa Fs sae vb ede ee Senior News Editor
oes sy ae ec bie vis 6 Photography Editor
IO oo oo Sif svc ta he cake Bes ee ee Sports Editor
IN 8s Creag hone oan be Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students’ of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.
Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

AST

Letters to the Editor

Debaters offer Oliver.
tourney or Nairobi

To the Editor:

As a Davidson coed and as a human
being with some idea of justice, I
resent the snide remarks in Hilton
Oliver’s letter to the Editor Nov. 14.

It was a prime example of the
insane de-humanization which women
have to struggle against, as described
by Cathy Landis in the same issue.

If Oliver needs an outlet for his
aggressions, I suggest he try wrest-
ling or debating rather than making
fun of his fellow men or women.

If he tried debating he would
discover that far from talking ‘‘with-
out saying anything’’, good forensics
demands a combination of organized
facts, quick and incisive thinking,
and a command of the English
language. He might learn not to use
over-generalization based on false
premises, the substance of his letter.

I am offended by his spitefulness
towards those who are friendly even
more than by his ridicule of women
and debators. Thank goodness for
people who have a kind and cheerful
greeting for one another, even if it is
in the library.

To my knowledge, the verbal
communication that takes place in the
library is not loud or prolonged. In
fact, Oliver’s complaint is the only
one I have ever heard, so that I tend
to believe he is hypersensitive either
to noise or to goodwill.

Perhaps he would be happier in
Nairobi.

Joyce Stahmann '78
Davidson College

To the Editor:

An open letter from the Davidson
debate team to Hilton Oliver.

Having been forewarned of Hilton
Oliver’s slanderous attacks on David-
son coeds, and Davidson debate in
particular, we challenge Mr. Oliver to
a public debate on the resolution: that
Davidson College should return to its
all-male status.

We presume that Mr. Oliver would
wish to speak. for the affirmative side
of the question. We will be represen-
ted by Debate Team Captain Gordon
Widenhouse.

If Mr. Oliver does not acquiesce to
this public confrontation, every mem-
ber of the college community can
safely assume that he retracts all
slanderous remarks which he has
made concerning Davidson coeds, and
by inference, agrees that Davidson is
a better place because of its women.

So now, Mr. Oliver, you have your °
chance. Accept this debate as a public
platform from which to ‘express your
remarkably original opinions.

Or admit to all that everything yo
have said is unfounded, setting
Davidson women at ease, by remo-
ving the heavy sword of this approba-
tion which presently hangs. over their
heads.

If Mr. Oliver agrees, this public
debate will take place in Eu Hall after
the Thanksgiving break, at a time
mutually acceptable to both parties.

The Debate Team
Davidson College

Study carrels Stimulate
student ‘territoriality’

To the Editor: |

There is: not a one-to-one ratio of
students to library study carrels or
desk spaces.

More carrels or desk space may in
fact be physically impossible in the
library, but even so students often
find themselves in need of a place to
study. For S0me upperclassmen,
mostly juniors and seniors, there are
assigned carrels where they can leave
books and papers and have a Virtual
guarantee of available study space.

Now for the rest of the student
body. there remains a limited quan-

-tity of unassigned carrels, and these

are supposedly open to free use by
any student. However, many stu-
dents claim these open carrels as their
own. (evidenced by their books left on
the shelf, or a name sticker on the
side), even though these carrels are
unassigned.

Case in point. Tonight 1 finally

found an unassigned carre! with only
a few papers on the shelf, with no sign
of active study. It was 6:50, and I sat
down and studied until 8:10, when, lo
and behold, who should appear but
the owner of the carrel, proclaiming
his territoriality, demanding that I
leave. ;

His reasons were obvious: 1) he had
Studied in that unassigned carrel
since the beginning of the year, 2) his
papers were in the carrel (he also had
4 name sticker), and, most important
of all, 3) he was there and needed to
study in his carrel.

Being a gentleman, and not wish-
ing to argue my position with one so
eager for truth and knowledge, I left.

But can this type of inconsiderate
action be allowed to continue in

regard to the unassigned carrels?

John B. Parkerson, Jr.
Davidson College
