May 15, 1975

Che Davidsonian

\ Five

PIRG continues try

to stop brown lung ©

The Davidson Public Interest
Research Group completed
work on its prescription drug
and returnable bottle projects
this term. The interest group
plans to continue its efforts in
combating brown lung disease
next year.

“We will also do some work
connected with the brown lung
project this summer. Through
the efforts of Biff Kirby we will
produce a television special for
WTVI of Charlotte, to be shown
during the evening of July 17, on
brown lung,

‘Also, several students will
return to Davidson during early
August in order to make
preparations for the project ef-
fort during the fall,’”’ said PIRG
chairman Andrew Lamas.

Working in conjunction with
the Textile Workers Union of
America, twelve students from
Davidson have leafletted cotton
mills in Kannapolis and Con-
cord about the dangers of brown
lung disease.

Thousands of workers will be
covered by this effort. ‘‘Cannon
Mills Plant No. 1, alone, em-
ploys well over 10,000 textile

Shoppers at numerous super-
markets in the North Mecklen-
burg area were surveyed as to
their attitudes on returnable
and throwaway beverage con-
tainers.

‘An overwhelming per-
centage of the consumers
preferred the use of returnable
bottles,” said Kirby.

“Because the costs to society
in increased litter, solid waste,
energy consumption, and fewer
jobs far outweigh the factors of
convenience and increased
profits’ for the beverage in-
dustry, PIRG has endorsed. the
Beverage Container Act that
was introduced in March in the
N.C. Legislature.

“‘Sponsored by Represen-
tative Charles Webb (Guilford)
and Senator Charles Vichery
(Orange), the legislation would
require a minimum five-cents
deposit to be placed on all soft
drink and beer containers,’’
said one PIRG source.

The legislation would also
allow for the establishment of
redemption centers to facilitate
the return and re-use of
beverage containers.

Letter to the Editor

Smission deplores sexist
Update advertisement —

To the Editor:

Now I know that for the past hundred-
odd years Davidson has been the all-
male haven of the South, at times to its
benefit and at times to its detriment.

But when co-education finally became
reality at Davidson, did the Alumni Of-
fice, The Davidson Update, Quips and
Cranks, and various other College
publications have to ballyhoo it as an
“attraction’’ to Davidson quite so
quickly? ~

I refer to certain advertisements,
photographical essays, and specials in
which the ‘‘Davidson woman’’ is
exalted. Lets face it, no matter how
many pictures of darling coeds in sexy
poses are published, there are still a
limited number of females in relation to
males here.

Davidson is not the place to come to
find your future wife (and a smart one at
that!!!).

Much of the advertising is downright

sexist and I believe I speak for the
majority of our limited number of
female students when I assert that we
deplore this debasement of our
“image.”’

“We are pleased with our ef-
forts during this term. We owe
much of our success to
graduating seniors Erwin
Barron and Mac MckKeithen
who helped us lay the solid foun-
dations of this organization,”
said Lamas.

workers. After distributing in-
formation to the workers, we
plan to aid the employees who
have the disease in receiving
workman’s compensation
benefits,’’ said co-organizer of
the brown lung project John»
Alexander.

\ SR Site iy Ge ian a SO OL A BY BD | EP Ge 0 aie > eB I Et eh

Patti Smisson ’77
Davidson College

Exam Procedure

The college calender calls for exams to be taken
May 19, 20, 21, 22. Not all professors use the self-
scheduled procedures described here, so each student
should determine definitely the exam arrangements for
each course. If self-scheduled procedures are used then
the following instructions apply.

The examination envelopes turned in earlier in the week
will be available to you during each examination session
on May 19, 20, 21, 22. You do not need to specify in ad-
vance when you will write a particular exam.

Go to Chambers Banquet Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for
morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions
‘and ask for the envelope containing the exam you want to
take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged
alphabetically by the student’s name. The yellow bor-
dered card will be detached and retained by the
examination staff.

Go to any class room in Chambers Building and write
the exam; please note that room 310 in Chambers is to be
used exclusively by students authorized by the professor
to use tables, charts, etc.

The envelope, with red bordered card still attached and
containing the questions and your answers, may be retur-
ned to the examination center as early as 9:45 for the mor-
ning and 2:45 for the afternoon and must be returned
before the deadline of 12:15 for the morning and 5:15 for
the afternoon. The honor plege must be signed at the
examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope.

The yellow bordered card, now receipted by the
examination center, will be given you; hold that card until
a grade for the course is received; in case of any
irregularity f is your evidence that you turned in the
exam envelope containing exam materials.

DON'T DESERT YOUR
PIEDMONT BANK
CHECKING ACCOUNT

-Leave your account open
during the summer-- A dollar
will do.

‘When you have no activity,
there is no charge-- Regardless
of balance. :
-Save time on your return in
September-- Activate your ac-
count simply with a deposit.
-Your remaining personalized
checks will be good-- No need
to buy new ones.

pall your Piedmont Bank
Master Charge Card with you

The college will continue to use the Student Instruction this summer.
Report as an instrument of course evaluation. You will -Apply now if you don’t have
receive one from each of your professors. Please com- one.

plete it and remember that you must turn it in when you
get your exam envelope at the Examination Center in
Chambers Banquet Hall (or at the Registrar’s Office if
you have a professor-administered exam). :
in the past a good many evaluations have been invalid
because of inadequate course identification. To aid there
you are requested to see to it that full identification of
department, course number, and section are entered on
‘the upper right corner of each sheet. Professor’s name
and student’s name are not needed.
. Registrar Richard C. Burts said,“‘Our continuing con-
cern for the Honor System and the attendant strains on it
occasioned by _ self-scheduled exams _ justify
our...soliciting continuing student support for the Honor
. System.”

‘PIEDMONT BANK

AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER F.D.1.C.

