September 26, 1975

4 the davidsonian

Optimist drops

Editorials

Employment publications

For many years the hourly paid staff employees of this college
and of many other institutions across the country have been
ignored chiefly because they have failed to organize themselves
and bargain collectively for fair wages and benefits.

We commend the Chambermaids for coming together not so
much as a sponsor of social acitivities but as an advocate for
responsible programs concerning the wages and benefits of the
secretarial and clerical staff.

A major need of all hourly paid personnel is a handbook which
makes explicit the terms and conditions of employment, including
wage brackets and corresponding job descriptions.

Director of Personnel Robert Stephenson has guaranteed that
he will begin assembling the handbook by November 24, and that
it will be completed by March 8 of next year.

We trust that the administration and the Chambermaids will
continue to work together with a spirit of trust and cooperation.

By making an employment handbook available to the hourly
paid staff, we expect that the administration will have come a long
way in improving its relations with college employees.

Supporting the Y

‘fhe YW/YMCA will be conducting their annual fund drive this
week, raising money to provide a budget for numerous
community-oriented programs. The fund drive marks one of the
Y's few highly visible activities on the Davidson College campus.

Yet the YW/YMCA conducts quietly throughout the year
programs reaching the entire Davidson Community. Funds from
the Davidson College student body are channelled into such
programs as STEP tutoring, the Ada Jenkins Community Center,
Scouting, and the student resource center. The Y also sponsors
speakers, issue groups, and scholarships for needy students.

The Y is not supported by funds from the Student Activities
Fee allocated by the Campus Tax Council. The entire budget
consists of private donations. We support the activities of the Y
on the college campus and in the Davidson community; we
strongly urge students, faculty, administration and staff to give
generously this year.

Forewarning Senators

With elections for Freshmen Dormitory Senators and Class
Senators approaching the student body in the next two weeks, we
feel that it is imperative that freshmen considering an SGA
position and students electing representatives have a clear
conception of the role of the SGA Senator.

Unfortunately, the position is not nearly as glamorous as
freshmen believe it to be; it involves considerably more than a title
for a medical school application. ..it requires a substantial degree
of work, much of it without recognition.

For example, the expanded psychological counseling program
adopted last spring by President Spencer was not.a casual
decision. Hours of work by Senator Dana English and SGA
President John Munce, all unnoticed publicly, went into studying
the history of psychological counseling at Davidson, interviewing
the psychologists, polling the campus, compiling statistics,
making a budget request on time, determining monies available,
and lobbying to convince the administration of the practicality
and need for an expanded counseling program. The work of the
Senate led to the present five-day counseling program.

Senator Martin Eakes likewise devoted long hours in presenting
a night exam period proposal to the Educational Policy
Committee and Faculty, only to have the proposal soundly
defeated.

Senate work requires a high tolerance to drudgery and
frustration, patience to sit through Senate meeting during
countless committee reports, energy to see projects through
ranging from opening night study rooms in Chambers to the
college governance system.

Much of the work of the SGA Senate, by its nature, will never
make headlines, but we believe that the Senate, when filled with
responsible leaders, makes a significant contribution to the
quality of life at Davidson. We urge freshmen interested in
serving the SGA responsibly to run for Senate seats, aware of the
expectations placed upon the SGA Senate by the student body.

By DAVID S. RICHARDSON

The eternal optimist is by no means
dead. He has merely dropped out of
sight for awhile, taking to the road.

Charles Kuralt is such an optimist:
scouring the backwoods of society in a
highway van, rolling from one hick stop
to another, stopping just long enough
to capture a few small town faces and
the glimmerings of a story on a CBS
camera.

After eight years of this transient
reporting, Kuralt has become some-
thing of a public legend: the nice round
face at the end of CBS News that
hurriedly drops an anecdote or two,
sweetening the Cronkite tragedies
with a gem of a tale from Anywhere,
U.S.A.

But what does Kuralt really stand
for? :

To be perfectly honest, the CBS
reporter represents a part of you and
me that still believes we can get away
from it all, that we can saddle up a van
and head for the hills, escaping the
City, newspaper headlines, and Walter
Cronkite’s sonorous repeat of the
Problem of the Day.

In short, Kuralt is a romantic, a
twentieth century Man of La Mancha, a
middle-aged Dean Moriarty looking for
the impossible, fooling us into believing
through the media that it is all out
there somewhere, and given enough
time we'll find it and bring it back
alive.

Like most of us, he’s running away.

As we all know, the last few years in
America have been tough enough to
warrant some kind of national intro-
spection, a searching for a way out.
Kuralt tells us that it rests in the
perpetual hope and intangible sense of
justice inherent in the American
Everyman.

He seems to be relying on a
200-year-old myth of collective demo-
cratization, preaching out the window
of his van somewhere in the wilds of
Idaho that once the farmers, butchers
and bakers of this land rise up and tell
the doctors, lawyers and politicians
(and newsmen) where to get off we'll
all be fine once again, and the Affluent
Society will no longer be just a name
chiseled on the Vietnam Tombstone.

Kuralt underestimates the situation
America has placed itself in. New York
City is not Mudflat, Arkansas, as Kent
State, Berkley, and Jackson State are
not Davidson College. The problems in
this nation pervade all cities, towns,
campuses and societies; but they

backwoods cure

receive most attention in the savage
islands Ifke the City and the Campus,
and they demand the most immediate
resolution within and near these

places.

I am certain that Kuralt must realize
this; where I doubt the CBS reporter is
in his optimistic backwoods panacea.
No matters,how far into America
Walter Cronkite and Eric Sevareid
reach with their electronic voices, the
local fisherman in Oregon cannot
possibly grasp, let alone solve the
intense crisis manifesting itself in the
ghetto of New York, or the Watergate
Hotel of Washington, D. C.

I respect Charles Kuralt for his
motivation, his assiduity, and his need
to find a solution. But to derive any
effect, to come at all close to an answer
he cannot possibly close his mind to the
headlines “back home”, immersing
himself in the egalitarian highway ethic
so many of us are falling prey to.

Kuralt lamented the 50’s lethargy in
which he claimed his generation lay
stagnant. He failed, though, to point
out just how near to that same mental
social dormancy our college generation
now exists.

As long as we persist in shuffling
through universities for the sake of a
lifetime of tidy income, as long as we
give our cities--and our suburbs--up for
lost, and as long as we pour into the
backroads of America expecting to find
national leadership, intelligence, and a
country elixir for a disturbed civili-
zation on the end of a kite string, we
shall suffer a fate of retrogressive
insularity--far more deadening than
any 50's lassitude--touched with our
particular myth of the American tra-
velling romantic.

Letters

The Davidsonian solicits
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and
signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300
words in length. \

Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices by
Sunday night will ordinarily .
be printed that week.

tne davidsonian

“The meaning of the messa
the image."’--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton
Jeff Sich

Matthew Covington
Andrew Lamas
Leon Venable
Jim Sitterson
David Trader

Sue Or eek Ore bie Hei6l 6 bce 6 e666. 6 6

ge is the change that it produces in

Ce ge Editor

eS ROTC Et Oe een Busi
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse usinass Manage

Cea Managing Editors

Le Executive Editor
eae Senior News Editor. ©
pee Photography Editor
A Sports Editor
eee Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school
Davidson College. Second class posta
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondenc
Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly s

year by students of
ge paid at Davidson,
€ to The Davidsonian.
ubscription rate: $6.00

SS RET TR SATIS
