November 14, 1975

the davidsonian

Will students torn between rampant materialism

D

and existential questioning define Davidson as

Spiritual community or wasteland?

By RICHARD BOYCE
Staff Writer

Is Davidson's depiction as a ‘‘spiritual com-
munity” a sugary baiting of contributors and a
strategic soothing of trustees, or is Davidson’s
spiritual life a reality to the ‘‘average student’?

More importantly, does the ‘‘average Davidson
student” even care whether it is one or the other?

“What are the major theological concerns of the
1975 college or university student?”

As presented in the October 22, 1975 issue of The
Christian Century, in a series of statements by
campus ministers at various colleges and universi-
ties, the generalized answer presents an interesting
dichotomy. The following statement accurately
captures the conflict:

There are fewer Jesus freaks than a few years
ago but more people in Inter-varsity, more
followers of Sun Myung Moon, more people into
meditation, more students asking questions about
ultimate meaning, ‘more people concerned’ with
making money and attaining job security—and
more who are excited about homecoming weekend.

The college population of 1975.presents a strange .

mixture of rampant materialism and existential
Perhaps, the two reactions are more intimately
linked than expected. ‘“‘The search for personal
salvation has replaced the movement to change
oppressive institutions and alter the course of
society.”
A drive for security

Economic necessities and the failure of 60’s
social activism have led to a very real materialistic
drive for security. ‘‘College registration lines are
breadlines...Females and male students are clearly
out to make some bread. And anything that gets in
the way —be it faculty, schedule, transportation or
even family —had better be on guard.”

Yet, even this competitive drive, with its
necessary characteristics of individualism and
instrumentalism, and its ultimate goal of satisfac-
tion for self, has forced the participant, absorbed in
himself, to face some very deep questions about his
personal values.

While a recent survey showed that only 28
percent of American college students considered
religion a “very important personal value” (The

New Morality, McGraw-Hill, 1974), several inter- .

viewed campus ministers qualified this indifference
toward traditional Christianity with a serious
quest for a ‘‘vital center of transcendent nature.”’
Students needed something around which to
organize their personal lives and values. The
average student, they claim, whether he knows it
or not, is in a very real “theological crisis’’.

Materialism at Davidson

“The theological concerns of the students I see
and meet and know are major ones: personal and
corporate survival in a world gone materialistically
mad, the meaning of personal and social relation-
ships within structures hellbent on immediate
gratification, the possibility of living gracefully in
a changed and changing moral climate. I think
that’s theological meat and not milk.”

Back to the narrower dimension. What form
does this conflict take on the Davidson campus?

According to Rush Otey, the college ‘“‘campus”’
minister, Davidson’s parallels with national trends
are striking. Otey visualizes the college student of

the 70’s as the conformitively sloppy guy, riding.

his Harley to a class on Zen Buddhism. The same
dichotomous conflict, he says, exists on the
Davidson campus as‘on the national scene.
Materialism is alive and well at Davidson, Otey
asserts, accompanied by a prevalent social apathy.

Davidson's students, he says, have come from
economically comfortable backgrounds, not fre-
quented either by harshness or “ethical orgasms’’.
Only observers of economic hardships, they yet feel
the need for competition to assure security.

But, Otey’s pessimism stops here. While there
has been a general turning away from the rampant
concern for social issues of the 60's, Otey also cites
an increasingly fervent search for ‘‘self-salvation’’.

Offsetting materialistic drives is a growing
interest in Transcendental Meditation, Eastern
religions and religious questions in general.

_‘*People are more willing to deal with transcendent
questions,’’ he says, more concerned with ques-
tions of ethics.

The ‘Promised Land” of opportunity

Given the option of labelling ‘‘the average
Davidson student’’, ‘‘believer’’, atheist, agnostic,
or apathetic, Otey placed the majority of students
in the vague area between ‘‘believer’’ and agnostic.
Otey felt such questioning both healthy and
exciting, believing there is a place for doubt in any
sincerely healthy faith.

Otey lists numerous reasons for his basic
optimism. Church attendance has shown a
proportionate rise over the past years. Originally
expecting only 40 to 50 at Tuesday evening servies,
300 occasionally show.

While the counter-cultural Jesus movement -is

“‘dead’’, according to Otey, Inter-varsity, a group

more comfortable with the “status quo’’, shows

_. large increases in attendance. The new class in
human sexuality, an area very much related to
Christian ministry in Otey’s terms, had its ceiling
reached and surpassed.

Shying away from simple number counts,
however, Rush cites other areas of optimism. Otey,
the focus of a four-year experiment in running a
school-financed ministry out of the supporting
community of the church, sets wide boundaries on
his ministry. As he states in the ‘‘Wildcat
Godbook”’, an extensive listing of opportunities for
religious and community involvement, ‘‘both
religious movement and community action are
vital if one’s education is to become a movement
toward wisdom rather than an accumulation of
dead facts.”

The opportunities the Davidson campus offers
for self-expression, Otey declares, are almost
limitless. Besides programs offered by DCPC and
surrounding churches (such as teaching, chorus,
and worship), there exists an extensive set of
programs offered by such groups as Davidson
Christian Fellowship, Catholic Student Organiza-
tion, Tempel Beth El, pre-ministerial committee,
College Union, the Office of Experiential Planning,
and the Y.

Otey lists further such specific instances of
concern as several thousand dollars raised for
World Hunger, STEP tutors, and help with
Barium Springs, Scouts, housing surveys, and the
Day Care Center.

Otey does not believe Davidson is the ‘‘Promised
Land’’. While claiming himself not naturally
gregarious, he regrets that his program respon-
sibilities inhibit his ability for leisurely ‘‘mixing’’.
He regrets the hurried pace of Davidson life,
leaving no room for reflection. A life entirely
“‘pre-destined by the pocket calendar’, he feels,
leads ultimately to alienation.

The average opposed to the real world

He is even more disturbed by the cushioning
myth that Davidson is not the real world. While
isolated from poverty and some human pain, Otey
asserts that Davidson contains persons of every
clique and crises of every kind. Davidson has its

Davidson may yet exist as a ‘spiritual community.’ But,

it also runs the risk of becoming a ‘communion of ain’ts.’

!

surrel,attempts, depressions, military issues,
morality and vocational decisions. It also offers a
fullness of life and an opportunity for the ‘‘crisis of
joy”.

The charge which all ministerialtéstimonies
must face, is that the person who is average in their
acquaintance, is the exception in the students.
Stated more clearly, are the struggles with which
Otey comes in contact really the struggles of the
average individual, or does the ‘‘average Davidson
student’’ never come into contact with the campus
minister?

Materialism toward the search for meaning

Can the campus minister extrapolate the feelings
shown by the minority he gets to know, to that
“silent majority’’ who never “grace the steps” of
any religious organization, outside of an occasional
T-Bird Clark New Testament class?

Judged from my lowly and limited perspective,
Davidson seems to accentuate the materialistic end
of the spectrum much more readily than the
existentialistic. A competitive drive for security
may very well lead some to the arena of
“self-salvation”’, but it can also lead to plain old
“self-centeredness’”’.

The fact that such a socially determined person
as Otey retains his optimism among the Davidson
population, serves as some degree of hope to such a
minimally active person as myself. But, I must
still deal with the rampant apathy I sense around
me.

On the national level, the push toward material-
ism has been accompanied by an inward turning
search for meaning. But, one must ‘ask oneself if
such a dual progression exists at Davidson.
Davidson’s individualistically competitive envi-
ronment may lead some to ask themselves
transcendent questions. But, total immersion in
this security-oriented drive certainly shelters
others from ever facing the possibility of such
personal uncertainties.

Work may point the way to self-fulfillment. But
as Pascal stated, work solely as diversion merely
“permits us insensibly to reach the end of life’s
journey.’’ As Otey says, an awareness of doubt
leads to a healthy questioning of faith. But, how
shall the Davidson student with a 3.5.GPA ever
know he doubts? Davidson may yet exist as a
“spiritual community’’. But, it also runs the risk of

becoming a ‘‘communion of ain’ts’’.
