The Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces
in the image.”
--Kenneth Boulding
Mark Deaton, Editor
Larry Mimms
Managing Editor

Andrew Lamas

Executive Editor

SIX

APRIL 24, 1975

Toward long-range planning

With the completion of work by the Goals Committee this week, it
has become evident that the college needs to initiate a long-range
planning committee to propose and help implement an organic plan
for the college during the duration of the 1970’s and the decade
following. Without such a group to continue and expand upon the
work of the Goals Committee, much of the frustrating work of the
past several months will go for naught.

With survival as the most pressing goal of the college, we must
become cognizant that we have no funds to waste on poorly-planned
programs. The community must know in what directions the
college will be moving and must remain informed of the process of
improving the caliber educational institution we now know. .

We hope the Trustee Development Committee will benefit from
the report of the Goals Committee and will see the necessity of fur-
ther identifying and planning for the major objectives of the college

community.
Watts locks

Judging from remarks made recently by college administrators,
card-lock doors are scheduled to be installed on Watts Dormitory
this summer. Such a move would be contrary to the SGA Senate
resolution on security forwarded by Tenley Shewmake as well as
contrary to the mood we are trying to create here as a residential
college.

Apparently the arguments of the SGA Senate have had little in-
fluence on the administration. We would very much regret the
necessity of filing a complaint against the college with the United
States Department of Health, Education and Welfare under the
Title Nine section of the Education Amendments of 1972. ;

However, if an expensive and unnecessary card-lock system is
installed, students will\have little choice other than filing such a
complaint against the college for discrimination or special treat-
ment for women students.

We reiterate our hope that the college deal evenly and adequately
with campus security for all students. Although administrators
recognize that the coeducational facility offers adequate security
for women students in Little Dormitory, coeducational facilities
have not been proposed for Watts. \

We are cognizant of the hesitancy of administrators to risk
possible discontent among parents of freshmen women.

Yet we feel that a simple, honest statement of the security
rationale for coeducational dormitories would be enough to dispell
vehement arguments to the contrary.

We look to Dean of Students Will Terry to call a meeting of in-
volved administrators and students this spring to plan for the cam-
pus security system to be implemented next year. Otherwise. we
see a confrontation between students and administrators next vear
which we would all rather avoid.

Intimidating emplovees

To pay-employees poor wages is inhumane. To discourage them
from expressing their thoughts to college administrators is also im-
proper.

According to several employees and one administrative official,
members of the hourly-paid staff are discouraged by their super-
visors from even speaking with Director of the Physical Plant
Grover Meetze and Director of Personnel Robert Stephenson.

Some employees fear that they may lose their jobs if their super-
visors see them talking with administrative officials. Other
workers are willing to discuss their problems with these officials at
night by telephone. ‘‘Yet, as I remember, one worker who
telephoned me asked me to please not tell his supervisor that he
(the employee) had called,’’ said an administrative official.

One member of the administration seems to believe that there
are some cases of extremely strained relations among hourly-paid
employees and their supervisors. Another official states that all the
workers feel free to express their complaints and opinions.

We feel that College President Samuel Spencer should look into
these emplovee-management problems and help to straighten out
the seemingly unfortunate circumstances which currently face the
hourly-paid staff.

Letters to the Editor

Poll shows counseling effec

To the Editor:

Two weeks ago an optional question-
naire was circulated to the three fresh-
men dorms asking general questions
about hall unity, hall counselor/hall
relationships, possible criterion to be
used for selecting future hall counselors,
and freshmen orientation.

The total response was not good--
exactly 40 sheets were received back out
of 320 circulated. Fourteen of these
came from Richardson, seven of these
from Cannon and 19 from Watts.

In response to the question ‘‘Do you
think your hall counselor has been as ef-
fective as you think he should have
been?” interestingly enough 100% of the
men and approximately 40% of the
women answered yes.

In rating how close the halls were as a
group on a scale from zero to five, 45%
of the men rated theirs on a five level,
30% on a four level, 20% on a three level,
and 5% on a one level.

The women rated 15% as five, 10% as
four, 15% as three, 10% as two, 35% as
one, and 15% as zero.

On the same scale in response to the
question ‘‘How instrumental has your
hall counselor been in effecting this?
(Or how ineffective? )”’ the men rated as
follows: 15% as five, 35% as four, 25% as
three, 15% as two, and 10% as one.

The women rated 25% as five, 10% as
four, 10% as three, 15% as two, 5% as
one, and 20% as zero.

Clearly the women as a whole were
less satisfied with their hall counselors
and hall unity than were the men, even
though these results cannot be trusted
too carefully due to low response.

Meredith Hall at home

A suggestion brought out over and
over again was the need for more hall in-
teraction, both between halls in the
same dorms and between male aad
female halls.

Highest on the list suggested for use as
criterion by which to select future hall
counselors was general outgoingness,
“relateability’’ to people--capable of sup-
plying the needed initiative for getting a
group of people together.

Other criterion mentioned often were:
1) willingness and enough responsibility
to commit the time needed to stay
available and open to freshmen, 2) not
a GPA worshipper and yet a good
student, and 3) a person who knows who
to talk to about available academic
programs.

Several times complaints were voiced
that counselors had tended to pressure
or advertise specific eating houses or
fraternities too much.

On freshman orientation most people
felt they were too rushed; two people
suggested an extra day added to next
year’s program. Several liked the tight-
ness however and mentioned it preven-
ted homesickness.

Several said it ended too abruptly:
“Orientation is not a_ three-day
process!’’ was one quote and one in-
dividual suggested a second, brief re-
orientation three weeks into classes to
help deal with the crash.

All questionnaires returned are now in
the hands of Bill Reed, one of next year’s
freshman advisors.

Margaret Hunter ’78
Davidson College

Rebuking unjust criticism

It is easy to criticize. Indeed it has
become a fear of mine that our
educations teach us to criticize much
and create little. We the people and our
leaders seems to be a product of playing
it safe.

In other words, to point out in-
consistencies, fallacies in logic, and
review motivations \seems to be the
strong point of the more educated per-
sons intellect today. Few people listen to
a proposal and many fear appearing
naive.

Recently a Presidential candidate
visited a college campus and was met
with plenty of cynicism even though
very few people actually knew what he
stood for before he came. His audience
was concerned with his motivations
more than his programs.

Unfortunately few of us are well ver-
sed on motivations, and like Freud, we
feel all sources of motivation are
negative.

Our cynicism can blind us. We do have

leaders today who withstand scrutiny
and deserve to be listened-to. Mark Hat-
field (R-Ore.) and Fred Harris (D-
Okla.) are two examples.

Worthy leaders did not die with the
end of the revolution. We must come to
trust our judgement and continue the
challenge of self-government.

The congressional elections of 1974
were a positive vital sign. Far from
showing a poor voter turn-out or sup-
porting those who took political morality
lightly, that election indicated that
people still cared.

Few politicians have been :more
cynical about the mentality and
morality of American than Richard
Nixon. Few politicians have had poorer
judgement than Richard Nixon.

Politicians ‘such as Jefferson,

Jackson, Lincoln and Truman believed
In us. We must believe in ourselves to
make this republic work.

Some cynicism about government is
healthy; too much can be fatal.

