the davidsonian

October 17, 1975

5

Grading professors

Confrontations weed out teachers

By DAVID RICHARDSON

There are many shadows flirting in
the background of the Davidson
College scene. One of the most
important, perplexing and ill-defined
is the Davidson professor.

Few students comprehend the indi-

aN ve
vidual compoaition and nature of

each professor confronted at the
opposite end of the classroom; fewer
still are willing to try.

Too many faculty members are
remembered solely for the injuries
’ incurred against the ingenuous in the
great war of the GPA. Too many
more are revered as awesome figure-
heads, despite their excessive
pedantics, didactic to the end.

Why don’t we know our professors:
our teachers, our pedants, our peda-
gogues? Within the faculty lies our
only real chance to know the David-
son system, for ‘better or worse.

These professors illustrate the as-
sets and liabilities of Davidson in as
many as five shows a week, one hour a
day. Each teacher directly or indirect-
ly offers a personal interpretation of
this school in his method and deli-
very: his very appearance in the
classroom.

But appearances are not enough.
We must finally come to know that
which the professor has to offer on a
personal, human basis. Outside the
classroom ideas flow, criticism flies,
the teacher communicates rather than
informs.

Screen gems:
Video-beam gleam

The College Union Board is currently considering the
purchase of a Video-beam projector and screen, a glorified
wide-screen television set costing approximately $4300. The
projector, designated by the Class of '75 as the Senior Class
gift would cost the College Union about $2600 above the
monies donated by last year’s seniors.

This weekend, the television system was on display in the
union lounge, and response by World Series fans watching on
the big screen was generally enthusiastic. However, any new
gimmick has its initial appeal. 3

Although the Video-beam system would be a nice addition to
the new union facility, we cannot justify the cost for such a
contraption. The availability of such an apparatus would be
limited as it necessitates operation by the College Union Tech
Crew. And unless the major networks improve their quality of
programming rapidly, the Union would be a long time getting
$4300 worth out of television.

More important, the College Union exists to offer the kind of
programming, co-curricular and social, which members of this
community cannot avail themselvés of elsewhere: We strongly
suggest that the union leave television programming to the
houses on Patterson Court and the dormitory lounges, saving
its all-too-precious budget to offer more of the unique
entertainment opportunities (such as the Royal Shakespeare
Company performance) which the Union alone can offer the
campus.

Gimmicks such as large television screens are a welcome
addition only when they are donated--completely donated; to
spend programming money for television is folly.

the davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the menage that it produces in

the image.’’--Kenneth Boulding

RON) 65, 6 5555 doe vines iites veg ke BB aii eens Editor
RM ec pgs ie ine Foor Ps Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
Matthew COVIAGION 3.0: .. 2.0000. ok tas Executive Editor
PaO ERII ASS ey pep SS oo kk cece kw ed Senior News Editor
0 EE aa a rg Photography Editor
OU eIIG@EGON ..... to. ks ENG aS NAPE AK Ee eee Sports Editor
CMMI eR gh bank fo 6 boson 6a Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of

Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian.

Box 218. Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Here we may see’just what there is
to learn, to emulate within the
Davidson context. Inside Chambers
we see too often what not to learn, or
at least what to avoid.

A prime example of the need for
individual student-faculty com-
munication is Davidson’s freshman
advisor program. Seldom more than a
travesty of human relations--some-
thing akin to the situation existing
between you and your most distant
uncle--this program more often than
not-serves to launch the unwary
student into a nightmare of academic
terrors.

The busy advisor lacks the time
and energy to help define a student’s
inchoate college pursuits. But, as if to
make up for it, he is obliged to
sponsor bi-yearly ‘‘casual’’ dinner
occasions, repairing suffering rela-
tions with Mom’s best casserole and
peach ice cream. Truly, southern hos-
pitality at its worst extreme.

After the first year of trauma, the
dazed student may be lucky enough
to be rescued by some member of the

faculty through the medium of shared

interest--academic or otherwise.
These instances are far too rare,
however, to offer general relief.

A distraught student may well find
himself at the end of his rope by
graduation--a ‘social misfit, warped
from. butting his head too often
against the administrative machine,
narrow-minded from identifying his
professors with the dusty old black-
boards of Cahmbers.

- Ideally, the Davidson student
would seek not only to associate

himself personally with a worthwhile
spectrum of teachers, but to deter-
mine which members of the faculty--

especially within the range of his
major--are worthy of a. on critical
confrontation.

This means, of course, that not all
the professors here are omniscient,
diligent souls committed to the
pursuit of truth and higher learning.
In short, some may seem idiots, or
merely, to choose a gentler phrase,
bad teachers.

Again, don’t be satisfied with
appearances. Restrain yourself from
calling them idiots in the asylum of
your dormitory room; instead, prove
them idiots in class, seminar, tutorial,
or over cold beer--anywhere, as. long
as you confront them face to face.

Although drastic, it is a sure-fire
way to tap the best in previously
reticent professors, to discover

something beneficial in the most
unlikely of sources, and naturally
enough, to determine who the rea]
idiots are, if any.

Davidson College owns a motley
collection of Angry Young Men and
Indifferent Old Men on its faculty
staff. Entrusted to this rather un-
stable means are four years of your
thinking lives. Make them realize it.

As they grade you, grade them.
Utilize their minds, ideas. .Demand
from them as much as you can
possibly handle. And most important

‘of all, take advantage of a valuable
personal relationship outside four
class walls with the teaching men and
women who can, and are willing to
offer you something of their lives.

Bogdown Student tells
fable of animal school

By ANNE FICKLEN
Staff Writer

As it’s getting on towards the mid-
term bogdowns, I think it’s about
time for an ever popular animal fable,
where animals do all sorts of symbolic.
things and the reader gets to create
his own interpretation.

After discarding  ‘‘Watership
Down’’ and ‘‘Bambi Goes Hawaiian in
Beach Blanket Bingo,’’ I’ve settled on

“The'‘Fable of the Animal School,”
written by Charles Nauss.

It is presented in the original,
because the last time I tried to
paraphrase a_ half-hour television
show, my monologue ran for three

hours and my listeners had to resort °

to No-Doz. -

“The Fable of the Animal School”

Once upon a time, the animals
decided they must do something
heroic to meet the problems of a ‘‘new
world,” so they organized a school.
They adapted an activity curriculum
consisting of running, climbing,
swimming, and flying, and to make it
easier to administer, all the animals
took all the same subjects.

The duck was excellent in swim-
ming, better in fact than his instruc-
tor.. He made passing grades in
flying, but he was very poor in
running. Since he was slow in

running, he had to stay after school
and drop swimming to practice: run-
ning. This was kept up until his web
feet were badly worn and he was only
average in swimming. But average
was acceptable in school, so nobody
worried about that except the duck.

The rabbit started at the top of his
class in running, but had a nervous
breakdown because of so much make-
up work in swimming.

The squirrel was excellent in climb-

\ ing until he developed frustration in

the flying class, where his teacher
made him start from the ground up
instead of from the treetop down. He
also developed charlie horses from
overexertion and then got “‘C” in
climbing and ‘‘D”’ in running.

The eagle ws a problem child and
was disciplined severely. In the
climbing class he beat all the others to.
the top of the tree, but insisted on
using his own way to get there..

At the end of the year, the queer
abnormal eel that could swim exceed-
ingly well, and also run, climb, and
fly a little, had the highest . average
and was valedictorian.

As my fifty minutes are up, you can
go off now to register for winter term,
and I'll leave you with Mr. Nauss’
last words: ‘Does this fable have a
moral?”
