Che

Vol. LXIV, No. Twelve

Hautdanntian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

_ January 9, 1975

By MARK DEATON
Editor

Banquet Hall Sought

Few people have seen the permanent art
collection of Davidson College which Professor
of Art W. Herb Jackson estimates has a value of
$25,000. The entire collection is stored in the drawers of
a filing cabinet due to a lack of exhibition space.

Included in the Davidson collection is a Goya
aquatint, a.cliche verre by Corot, a color lithograph by
Miro, a drawing by Corinth, a lithograph and a series
of engravings by Hogarth.

The members of the Davidson College Art depart-
ment feel that Chambers Banquet Hall could be easily
remodelled as a gallery/ museum, avoiding the ex-
pense of constructing a separate museum building.

“This particular room is only used infrequently, and

T see no reason for it to be contiriued to be used so -

sparingly,” said Professor of Art Larry L. Ligo, “It
’ seeins to me that this is the perfect spot for a gallery,
giving the college community a hub for art, both in our
collection and in our travelling shows. ‘

“Since Chambers Banauet Hall is not being used to
its full puveniial, I think it could be turned into a gallery
with relatively little outlay of funds,’’ said Ligo.

“I don’t think we can hide the fact that an expanded
museum/gallery is going tc cost some money, but I
think it’s minimal as to the return value,’’ Jacksom
., maintained.

Charles L. Wyrick Jr. a Davidson alumnus from the
Class of ’61 and director of the Delaware Art Museum
in Wilmington, Delaware, agreed with this sentiment.

“The potential benefits from such a museum would
by far exceed the initial investment,” said Wyrick.
“From my experience as director of the Delaware
Museum I have seen how an’art museum-can become
the focal point for the cultural life of a community.

“I personally would love to see Davidson have a
museum, Just to have spave available, properly.
lighted and secured would be of great benefit not only
to students, but to the whole college community,”’
Wyrick added. means

“T will personally lend my unqualified endorsement
tosuch an undertaking,’’ Wyrick added.

Chambers Banquet Hall is currently used for the
Thursday morning cokes and coffee hour, occasional
student dances, infrequent trustee, alumni, and David-

son associate banquets, several lectures each year, .

standardized testing, and as the exam distribution cen-
ter.

\ Behind Closed Doors

i

For Art Gallery,

y eis a

(Photo by Venable)

While soliciting works for the Davidson National. the Art department keeps the $25.000 Davidson

permanent collection locked out of sight.

Professor of Art Douglas C. Houchens indicated that
some of these functions could still be scheduled in the
hall if necessary. Houchens envisions Chambers
Banquet Hall partitioned with movable walls con-
necting the two rows of interior columns in the present
structure. These walls would allow more display space
for art, but as Houchens maintained, ‘‘these dividers
could be strategically spaced and stored if necessary
so that interior space could be_ effectively
manipulated.”’

Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr.
claimed that such movable partitions could be very
practical, economically as well as technically.

The Emperor Needs New Clothes

#

we can do is include a few works in

Jackson Atiscutes Aréna F or Art

By MARK DEATON
Editor

‘‘You don’t have the action until
you have an.arena to put it in,’’ said
Professor of Art Herb Jackson con-
cerning the lack of exhibition space
at Davidson for artwork.

Jackson has expressed hopes that
Chambers Banquet Hall will be
remodelled as museum space to
house the Davidson permanent
collection , the monthly exhibitions,
and student shows.

“T’m not asking for a $4.2 million
structure, but look at the
discrepancy in building a $4.2
million structure to store verbal in-
formation and keeping four
drawers in a cabinet for visual in-
formation.

the student show.
“It would have been invaluable
for Ken Freed or Kes Woodward

have a one man show where they
select about 30 pieces, mount them,
and do all the public relations and
promotion. It would have been a
great experience for them, ‘and it
’ would have been a great experience
for the community.
* Jackson cited the location of the
banquet hall as its primary at-
traction.
“A separate building would be
more convenient for the art depart-
ment, but in terms of ministering to

gem. The banquet hall is right in the

“We have to come to terms with
the fact that that is not the only way
man expresses himself. It simply
isn’t,’ Jackson maintained.

Jackson conceives the gallery in
Chambers Banquet Hall as an
educational arm of the college.

‘“‘We want a teaching collection,”’
said Jackson. ‘‘We’re not com-
peting with any major museums;
for our needs, I think we want to
keep it small, unless, of course,
someone gives us a tremendous ad-
dition to our collection.’’

Jackson maintains that there is
no provision for students to make
use of the teaching collection -
Davidson now has.

“Because the collection sits in 7
drawers, and until recently, hasn’t

Herb Jackson

even been properly mounted, it’s of at

little use to students. They can’t
refer to it, relate it to other: art
history they’re studying, write a
paper on a piece, or analize the
technique. :
“On occasion we can pull a par-
ticular piece out to illustrate a point
in a lecture or class, but we can’t

continue to pull them out constantly |

without severely damaging them,”
Jackson said. _

Jackson felt that exhibition space
would be particularly helpful. to
senior art majors.

“Exhibition space would be the
basis of extended studies 402,”’
Jackson indicated. ‘‘It would be in-
valuable for senior thesis exhibits
to be displayed. Right now, the best

flew of things,’’ said Jackson.
-*It would be sort of like making

people on 5th Avenue walk through

a gallery on their way to lunch from
work,”’ .

“We wouldn’t just double our at-
tendence at shows, we would in-
crease it several hundred times,’’
said Jackson. ‘I think that every
student would see every show that’s
here, unless he’s just adamantly op-
posed to art.”

Yet Chambers Banquet Hall
seems an attractive choice to
Jackson for various other reasons
in addition to its location.

“The major advantage of Cham-

bers Banquet Hall, aside from the:

fact that it’s in a place where the
(See JACKSON, page 3).

and others right down the fine to ~

the community, Chambers is just a .

. Endowment for the arts in. W:

College Union Operations Manager Bill Roland felt
that there would be little demand for Chambers
Banquet Hall in College Union programming once the.
new union was occupied.

“The pressure on the banquet hall will be sub- -
stantially relieved when we move to te new union. The

new rooms are pretty much ‘superior. The new

Morrison room and Club Room don’t even have the
posts in the middle of the floors that they have in Cham-
bers Banquet Hall,”’ Roland said. {

College Union Director C. Shaw Smith had some
reservations about using the space as an art museum.
“I could back that all the way but I’m not sure that the

_ room could be used for both.an art display and student

dances,”’ said Smith. He estimated that anywhere from
5 to 12 dances have been traditionally held there during
the school year. Smith indicated that most other union
programs presently scheduled in the banquet hall
could be effectively moved elsewhere to sights in the
new union. f

“He indicated his enthusiasm for the location as an art
gallery. ‘‘To have great art where you do other things
is right. We shouldn’t try to subjugate art to an out of
the way location rather than a place where we can en-
joy it daily,” said Smith.

“Tf there’s any way to blend it all, it’s fine with me,”’
Smith said.

Assitant Director of Alumni Affairs Zach F. Long
also had reservations about turning a space he oc-
casionally uses for programming to the art depart-
ment.

“It would certainly not be convenient to have as
alumni program upstairs in Chambers and then walk
tolunchinthe gym.’’saidLong. .

“A gallery doesn’t have the highest priority for the
college. If it did, we’d already have one. I don’t know if
it’s a priority at all. ’don’t know the possibilities,”
Long added.

Jackson indicated that lighting; wall covering. and
window panelling, carpeting, security, and,.tem-—
perature and humidity control would be necessary for
Chdinbers to used effectively as a gallery/museum.

Gene Rushing of the Lighting Center Inc. of Charlot-

te estimated that track lighting for Chambers Banquet

Hall sufficient to well
than $3,000. ’
Jackson felt that panelling could be placed over the
ten double windows in the banquet hall, avoiding the
cost of bricking the apertures.
Meetze indicated that the banquet hall has its own
separate air conditioning system although its heating

light a gallery would cost less

system is part of the entire Chambers unit. ‘‘And the
security could be worked out. No problem there,”’
Meetze added. fifa

Bill Bodihi of the Museum. Program for the National.
he in 1 D.C, indicated
that federal monies were available through the —
museum rennovation program to improve security

: systems, to add storage space, and to install climate
’ control facilities. ray, ag

“Money is tight, and there’s a lot of competition, but
that shouldn’t discourage Davidson from applying,”’

- Bodini said. i

(See COLLEGE, page 3)

eS ae
