October 31, 1975

the davidsonian

S

Can faculty abandon lecturn image ?

By BILL BOND

One evening an Arab was mosying
down the camel path in his neighbor-
hood about two miles from town. It
was fifteen minutes or so after
sundown, and the sky was working
hard on turning off aljthe harsh light.

Suddenly, he heard the noise of
approaching horsemen. Looking up,
he saw a group of riders coming his
way, all mounted on what appeared to
be fierce-spirited animals and riding
his way as if with some definite
purpose in mind.

Narudin, our Arab, was not fool-
hardy or stupid. His was a rowdy part
of the country, and people caught
walking alone at night by roaming
groups of riders often found them-
selves robbed, beaten, or even killed.
The unlucky ones were forced into the
army by regiments who had not heard
of the. volunteer army. Narudin,

therefore, looked for a place to hide.

“Off to his left he saw a little

‘cemetary, and, without another mom-
-. ent's hesitation bounded over the wall
; and tlung to the damp ground for
2 dear life. (He obviously perceived this
"as a grave matter.)

Phe riders, however, notiged the
‘ white robed figure jumping over the
- fenes, and, being a group of innocent

sightseers, rode over to see if any-

~ thing ‘was wrong.

‘When Narudin was confronted by
the: friendly, if curious, group, he

found himself at a loss for words to
explain his reason for hiding. Finally,
he rolled over to the group and said,
‘“‘It would take too long to:tell you
why I did as I did. It is more
complicated than it seems. Let it
suffice, therefore, to say that I am
here because of you, and you are here
because of me.”’

I would like for you to keep this
story in mind as you consider the
relationship between professors and
students at Davidson College.

Perhaps I am too naive, but when I
was trying to decide where I was
going to go to college, one of the
things that impressed me most was
the information that student-teacher
ratios were very small, leading to
intimate classrooms and occasional
chats with a professor at his house for
dinner or at some agreed-upon place

‘for a beer. After I had arrived I found

this to be the exception and not the
rule.

First Chambers had reasons for
this. The main one being that
professors used to have open houses
on Sunday nights, but there were
stopped due to lack of student
interest.

This is no doubt the truth, but does
contact between professors and stu-
dents have to be limited to shallow
chats over punch during the Walt
Disney’s ‘‘Wonderful World of
Color’’? Was the lack of interest only
on the part of students?

No, I believe that students and
faculty, as a whole, is due to the need
on the part of the faculty to set
themselves up apart from students,
and to the students allowing this
attitude on the part of most profes-
sors to color their feelings about the
faculty as a whole.

This past week I was told by a
faculty member that the faculty
needed. to be guaranteed certain
rights that students should not have.
I was not told that this was because it
would help the faculty to get their
work done better or to facilitate the
educational process in any way. The
reasoning was that the faculty as a
higher class of folk at this institution
needed such different sets of rules so
that they could be set apart from
students.

This sort of attitude carries over to
classrooms so that instances of pro-

fessors talking down to classes and
limiting discussions, not because
topics brought up are not germaine,
but because they might challenge a
personal belief he has stated over and
over in lectures.

Happily, not all professors are like
this. Even those who are have a
seemingly large enough set of stu-
dents who are allowed in the presence
so that they could not see themselves
as alienating or being alienated from
their pupils. Those professors who
honestly attempt to interact with
students as people and not students
are one of the great things about this
place for those folk who take the effort
to get to know them.

Most students, though, are not
willing to make this effort. Either
they felt dumped on long enough that
they are not willing to try to make a
friend of a professor, or simply are
apathetic about the whole matter.

So it ends up being a vicious circle
in which faculty members can turn off
those students who might have come
to Davidson looking for this type of
contact, who in turn turn down
honest efforts for communication by
those faculty members who want to
be seen as men and women and not
fixtures behind a lecturn. Let’s
face it, each is here because the other
is here. Perhaps we might be able to

make it more pleasurable with a little
effort.

Friday, October 31, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker, Kitta, Stowe Galleries
Mackie, Menard, Schmitt
5 pm President's Dinner (Ne Ultra Society) Banquet Hall
8:15 pm President’s Opening: First Major Hodson Hall
Drama Production--‘‘Wilson”’

8&10:30 pm Pop Film: ‘Play Misty for Me” Love
9&1lpm John Stanfield 900 Room
Saturday, November 1, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. we Galleries
8am Graduate Management Admission Test anquet Hall

llam Cross-Country Meet: Southern Conference Meet
ECU-Greenville, N.G:
1:30 pm Football: Kenyon Gambier, Ohio
2pm Soccer: Emory University Atlanta, Ga.
8:15 pm First Major Drama Production: ‘‘Wilson’’ Hodson Hall
9&1l1pm John Stanfield 900 Room
Sunday, November 2, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker andco. Stowe Galleries
7pm Catholic Mass Lingle Chapel
Monday, November 3, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
TBA Radu Florescu on Dracula _ Love
Tuesday, November 4, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
All Day Alan Kolp--Eralham Seminary Conversation Pit
9am Wake Forest University School of Management
Meeting Room
10 am Questions & Answers with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
7pm Worship Service DCPC
7:30 pm JYA >. Balcony--900 Room
8 pm Open End with Dr. Sam Spencer Morrison Room

--Vance Polley
John Stantield performs in the 900 Room Friday and

Saturday.

Wednesday, November 5, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
4pm . Film: ‘‘Hemingway”’ Honors Center
6:45 pm Dinner: Robert Martin of Banquet Hall

Fund for Theological Education
8pm Fine Film: ‘‘Frankenstein”’ Love
8:30&10 pm Coffeehouse: ‘‘Easy Steam”’ 900 Room
Thursday, November 6, 1975

All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
10am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall —
8:15 pm First Major Drama Production: ‘‘Wilson” Hodson Hall
8:30&10 pm Coffeehouse: “Easy Steam”’ 900 Room

