January 16, 1975

The Davidsonian

Fifteen

Wrestling Faces

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Wrestling at Davidson today is essentially the same
sport developed by the ancient Greeks.

The only major change in the world’s oldest sport is
an insistence today that wrestlers wear uniforms, An-
cient Greek matches such as the one between Heracles
and Diomedes were contested in the nude.

There are two types of wrestling in the United States
today. One type is the ‘‘folk”’ style. This is the style
used in college and high school matches.

The second type is the “‘Olympic”’ style. This style is
used in world competition. The United States is the
only nation that has two styles of wrestling.

The first Davidson College Wrestling Team was for-
med during World War I by Dr. Cummings. The team
went through a series of coaches including Parkes
Harrison, “‘Doc’’ Unger and Tex Tillson until 1939,.
when Charlie Parker (’38) became the coach. Parker
has been the coach ever since.

Parker is well known and respected in wrestling cir-.
cles. He has been a referee at the National Collegiate
Finals, the World Games, and the Pan American
Games during his career.

In addition to coaching Davidson, Parker was the
coach of the 1964 Pan American Wrestling Team. He is
now a member of the Wrestling Hall of Fame.

The years of wrestling at Davidson have not
produced many team championships, but there have
been many outstanding wrestlers graduated from
Davidson.

Since the inauguration of the Southern Conference
Tournament, Davidson has produced a total of seven

“Td like — |
to help, but |
I'm just

one
person?’

Do you really

think God will
accept that?

pS hie

others all by your-
self. That’s no excuse
for.doing nothing.
Join with others at
your local synagogue
or church, There’s
plenty you can do to-
gether. Example: In
Wisconsin, one reli-
gious group set upa
halfway house to help
women parolees fit
themselves back into
society. The God we
worship expects us to
seek out those who
need our help, and to
help them.

Start treating your
brothers and sisters like
brothers.and sisters.  eeeeeeeeeeee

|
Maybe you can’t help
|
|

Who offers a Master Charge

Yes, you must be 18 years of age to
have the card in your name alone.

| Is there any minimum income requirement?
No. No one is excluded from any Pied-
i mont Bank service due to a pre-deter-
| mined minimum annual income.

Why would | want a Master Charge Card?
| Good for identification; it will make
| cashing a check much easier. Dining
out, travel or emergencies make hav-
| ing a Master Charge Card worthwhile.
Safer than carrying cash, reduces the
| need for and cost of travelers checks.
When does my Master Charge Card expire?
| All student Master Cards expire in
June 1975. Cards will automatically be
renewed unless specific instructions

individual championships. 3

Davidson’s first wrestling champ was Howard Mc-
Fayden. McFayden won the heavyweight cham-
pionship in 1938.

Harold Westervelt was another three time_cham-
pion. As a sophomore and junior, Westervelt won the
157 Ib. crown. As a senior, Harold moved up to take the
177 lb. championship.

The 1967 team only had seven members, but Parker
refers to the team ‘‘as the finest team he coached.”
These seven wrestlers produced a 6-2 dual meet record
and placed third in Southern Conference. Colin

Sport Of The Gods

r

\

Historical Destiny

Hudson won the 115 Ib. class, and Lowell Byron won the
championship at hea in 1967.

Keith was a ore on the 1967 team,
placing third in the conference. In 1969, Keith, who had
been - Virginia School State Champion, won the
190 Ib. ,
wrestler to win the championship.

Several fa and administration members were
wrestlers in ir schoo] days. Vice President for
Academic Affairs John M. Bevan was a wrestler at
Franklin and Marshall. Professor of Mathematics
King and Professor of Psychology Kelton wrestled un-
der Coach Parker at Davidson. Professor of English
Gill Holland wrestled at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity.

“Parker recalls that Holland and ex-Davidson football!
coach Dave Fagg used to be rivals. One year Fagg bea’
Holland in a dual meet, and then Holland turned the
tables and defeated Fagg in the Southern Conference
Tournament.

In recent years the wrestling team has been facing
stiffer competition as more and more schools begin
to give wrestling scholarships.

Davidson can no longer compete with traditional
rivals such as U.N.C. and N.C. State.’ However, the
team still competes in the Southern Conference Tour-
nament. -

In the 1973-74 tournament Davids. only placed one
wrestler. John Scandling (’73) took. the fourth place
spot in the 192 lb. weight class.

This year’s team is presently 1-1 in dual meets, ana
when the tournament rolls around, the team and Par-
ker hope to be able to place more than one wrestler in
the top four of each weight class.

PISDMONT BANK AND TRUST CO

master charge

THE INTERBANK CARD

Card to Davidson students?
Piedmont Bank and Trust Company.

dq Is there a minimum age requirement?

to the contrary are,given in advance
You will have your card for summer
travel and we encourage seniors to
continue to carry a Piedmont Master
Charge Card wherever they go.

Why did Piedmont Bank design a Student
Master Charge Program?

A 1970 survey of Davidson College
seniors indicated that students wanted
a Master Charge Card. Piedmont
Bank’s long and satisfactory experi-
ence with Davidson students assured
us that our faith in the students was
justified, and finally, it is the only ser- i
vice of our bank that was not being
offered to students. We ask for your
deposits and we should be willing to
provide you the tool for credit!

Piedmont Bank in no way encourages the student to use
the Card for spending beyond his or her budget. We hope
it will be a convenience to you and will cause you to use Pied-
mont Bank for checking and savings both now and in the
future. It is also our hope that Piedmont Master Charge will
go with you as you leave Davidson College:

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER.FDIC
