Che

Vol LXIV, No. Eighteen

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Aavinsanntan

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

February 20, 1975

College Carries Commitment To ROTC

By DON BENSON
Associate Editor

“Davidson College is committed to
Army Rotc,”’ explained Vice President
for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan.

“The college has always felt the need.
to see a portion of our officer corps
coming from a liberal arts background.
We feel that a liberal arts education
gives the individual a perspective which
is useful in many fields, the army in-
cluded.”’

Davidson College™ spends  ap-
proximately $3000 per year on the Army
ROTC operation in the basement of Belk
dormitory. The U.S. Governmentspends
$10,000 per year beyond the payment of
staff salaries for this program.

During the Vietnam War, there was a
vocal effort to have Army ROTC
programs removed from college cam-
puses. With the volunteer army now ac-
celerating its advertising and
promotions, the trends are unclear as to
what the future enrollment levels of
ROTC may be. © :

The present staff of Davidson’s Army
ROTC department consists of five of-
ficers, six enlis men, and one

civilian. The program lost an officer
from its staff last year.

Two enlisted men will not be replaced
when they leave this summer. Lt. Col.
Kenneth D. Allen, Maj. Clarence Grant,
and Capt. Abel White are leaving this

i

ROTC Rappeller

We check their qualifications and ex-
press a choice. The college has a definite
hand in the selection process.’’ :

The ROTC staff has on occasion
assumed coaching duties for Davidson
College teams in such areas as riflery
and swimming. They have never been
used to share academic duties outside of
the ROTC program.

As head of the ROTC program cen-
tered at Davidson Col. William C. Sim-
pson said, ‘‘Our facilities here are some
of the better in the Southeast.

“We have three classrooms, an area
for drafting and map making, what I
consider a secure arms room, a cadet
lounge, a firing range in the basement of

élk, and access to the College’s athletic
fields. We are also constructing a “slide
for life cable’ over a cove at the
college’s lake campus.”’

Simpson echoed the need for an ROTC
program in liberal arts colleges. ‘The
first consideration has of course been
the number of people we are talking
about. It would be unfeasible to expect
West Point to turn out the number of of-
ficers needed by the army.

“There has also been a traditional
desire for individuals with a liberal arts
education to balance the talents of the
professionally trained soldier.’’

‘Bevan acknowledged that questions
can be raised as to the purpose of

The ROTC training tower for rappelling was built entirely by students.

summer but will be replaced.
Bevan explained, ‘‘The army recom-
mends a list of people for such positions.

The Davidsonian ceases publica-
tion for the winter term with this

issue. We will resume publication
March 13. The editors and staff wish
everyone a happy spring break..

military training in a liberal arts
curriculum. “‘It is hard to draw a sharp
line between what is pre-professional
and that is liberal arts.

“T don’t see how anyone could object

to ROTC on those grounds while the -

college offers courses like. Organic
Chemistry or Experimental
Psychology. These are courses that are
heavily weighted towards a professional

Weekly Inspection

Six years ago, this was a familiar scene. ROTC was mandatory, and

inspections were held regularly.

kind of preparation.”

Davidson College currently has 93
students enrolled in ROTC. 23 are
seniors, 25. are juniors, 19 sophomores;
and 26 freshpersons. This includes two
female sophomores and one female

freshperson. Around 43 percent of
Davidson students do not continue
ROTC into their junior and senior years.
This compares with the national
average of about 60 percent.

The first two years of ROTC involve
no obligation for the student. The fresh-
person course meets once a week during
all three terms, in addition to leadership
laboratory taken during the fall or
spring terms. The sophomore course
meets twice a week for two terms in ad-
dition to a lab in the fall or spring terms.

Junior and senior cadets meet four
times a week during any one of the
terms in addition to a lab in the fall or
spring. A six-week summer camp 1s
required, usually attended after the
junior year. These students receive $100
per academic month and are com-
missionéd upon graduation as second
lieutenants.

Cadets have several options in
fulfilling their commitments. The most
popular alternatives being (1) a three to
six month period of active duty followed
by eight years in the ready reserve, or
(2) two years of active duty with four
years spent in the reserves.

Davidson students are almost equally
divided in their choices between these
two. Simpson added, ‘‘Everyone
received their choices last year.’’

Robert Thomas Amis, Jr.
Susan W. Baynard
Roger H. Brown, Jr.
Samuel James Ervin, IV
John Raymond Jones, Jr.
Barbara Ivey Kissam
Catherine Elaine Landis
Charles Elliott Law

N.C. Fellows Taps 15

: David Knox Tinkler

Davidson has 47 out of 93 students on full
ROTC scholarships. ‘“‘This is an ex-
ceptionally good amount,” said Sim-
pson. The student must retain a C
average and meet his commitments to
keep his aid.

The scholarship provides for all
academic expenses including books, lab
fees, and any equipment needed. The
student can receive grants of one, two,
three or four years. The four year grant
requires four years of active duty and
two years in reserves after graduation.

The ROTC staff is not restricted to
conducting a program for Davidson
students. Through the Charlotte con-
sortium, Army ROTC is taught to the
students of seven other participating
schools. These include Belmont Abbey,
Barber Scotia, Central Piedmont Com-
munity College, J.C. Smith University,
Mitchell College, UNCC, and Wingate.

Bilateral agreements also offer such
opportunities to Mitchell College, Gard-
ner Webb, and Pfeiffer. These non- -
Davidson students have the option of
coming to Davidson or attending Thur-
sday and Friday classes conducted at
the Army Reserve Center in Charlotte.
The final course of instruction must be
taken by all students at the Davidson
campus.

“There are going to be people who feel
that they want to offer something to
their country.

“It is a good opportunity to keep one’s
options open. A student may need alittle .
time to grow when he graduates. The
Army can give you a chance to do this,
to see the world and also be supporting
yourself.”

Phillip F. Oblinger
Jayne Louise Reich
Hayden Judson Silver, Ill
Stephen Jerome Smith |

Olivia Cacedia Ware
Carol Elizabeth Watkins

OTC VOC CCC CC CCC CCC CCC CCCCCCCC?™
| A i hi i hi hi i hi hi hi hi hi i a hi hi hi a ha hs hn a hh ht pt tol
