January 16, 1975

The Bavitsonian

Three

Board Ponders Communication Void

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor
The authority of ownership,

management and control of Davidson
College rests with its Board of Trustees.
These people decide the policy and
direction that the college takes in areas
of student life, finance and develop-
ment, athletics and education.

Yet few students have any contact
with these members who stand at the
top of the power structure of Davidson
College.

“Students know less about the
trustees and how they operate than the
trustees know about the students,’’ said
SGA President Blain B. Butner..

“The only direct contact that trustees
have with students is the SGA reception
held the night before each trustee
meeting. We often have three-fourths to
two-thirds of the trustees in attendance
at these meetings, and if the issues they
are planning to discuss are big-—like
coeducation a few years ago—this con-
tact can be invaluable,”’ said Butner.

Butner indicated that discussions
were usually honest and meaningful, but
probably had little effect on trustee
voting decisions.

Superficial Contact

“Students are pretty outspoken and
say pretty much what’s on their minds,
but as far-as decisions are concerned,
this contact is pretty superficial,” said
Butner.

‘“‘Most trustees have made up their
minds before the reception as to how
they will vote the next day. Two hundred
students talking the night before isn’t
going to change much.

“The contact is miniscule, I would
say. Students don’t know the trustees.
How could they?’’

Chairman of the Development Com-
mittee William A. White Jr. expressed
interest in further contact with students.

Climbing into the Cockpit

“T know a lot of students. . .well, not a
lot of. students, but many students,
because I live in Charlotte..I would like
to know more students and more of what
gtudents were thinking, but there is no
way to climb into the cockpit of studen-
ts’ minds,’’ White said.

Vice Chairman of the Student Life
and Health Committee Charles R. Car-
ter also pointed to the need for increased
student involvement with the Board of
Trustees.

‘“‘We don’t. have enough student

“The most important j
‘thing about a person is ©
what that person
believes,’ said Chair-
man of the Davidson
Board of Trustees War-
ner L. Hall.

“I lived in Hitler’s
Germany, and I cameto #
believe that <3
unalterably,’’ he said. &
“Are you expendable or #4
are you a person of wor-
th as a child of God? It
makes a heck of a lot of
difference what you °
think about man.”

Christianity.

_thin

- Warner L. Hall

Hall sees education at Davidson as compared with non-
Church-related schools -as learning within the context of

“I’m not talking about physics professors preaching ser-
mons,”’ said Hall, “but I think Davidson does offer two

gs.
' “Tt seeks to offer to students an awareness of
Christianity on an adult level so we can provide the world
with informed Christians. And we have men who start
from the Christian point of view and that understanding of
the world teaching within this set of values.”’

Yet Hall sees the Board of Trustees loosening the
i Sead for faculty tenure in regard to religious

“Under extraordnary circumstances, I think we can
have professors who are non-Christians here, as long as
they are sympathetic to and cognizant of those values.

The Davidson College Board of Trustees

Several Board members have expressed interest in taking further steps toward facilitating communication with students.
This group, ultimately responsible for ensuring that Davidson is offering a high quality of cognitive and emotional educational ex-
periences, is receiving little response from the students for whom Davidson exists.

representation. I would like to see that
changed. We need more student
representation than faculty represen-
tation. The faculty are employees,’’ Car-
tersaid. _

Mary Bittle Duke Semans, the first
woman to serve as a member of-the
board, compared _ student-trustee
relationships at Duke University, where

‘she is also a trustee, with those at

Davidson,

“At Duke, some students come to non-
executive meetings of the board on sub-
jects of interest to them. It is good for
trustees to get filled in as to what is most
important on students’ minds.

‘“‘At Duke, we are constantly in touch
with the desires of the students,’’ said
Semans.

“‘The point at which there is contact is
the point at which the faculty com-
mittees meet with trustee committees.
These campus committees are
established in parallel with trustee com-
mittees,’’ said College President
Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

“They are not uninformed.”’

‘‘We send trustees news. releases, The
Davidsonian, the Update, a catalogue,
whatever. We send them all of the in-
formative materials from here. They
are not uninformed,” continued Spen-

‘Hall Predicts Loosened Tenure Rule

By MARK DEATON
Editor

Hall maintained.

that way.

fifties and sixties.

‘ £ he use regional as distinct from national, I think the
Board of Trustees see Davidson in that light. Our major
concern has been to be a servant of a particular area and a
particular church.’’

Although Hall admitted that the student body had much
to gain from a program recruiting students outside of the
South, he said, “‘I think we havea pretty strong student
body, but we may need a little seasoning.”

He felt that plans for bringing scholars from Britain and
other European nations “‘brings a different slant’’ to ideas
discussed at Davidson.

~ Hall compared the present student body with those of the -

“I don’t think I know the mood of the students that well.

ate a ws pete impression is that the. present student
y is a little less violent in its reaction to lif.

the students of the sixties. epeurr

; “I don’t think students today are like the students of the
fifties. They were not concerned with much of anything. I
think there is a genuine concern among Davic
dents today, and I sense that as a liberal rather than a
conservative,’’ Hall said.

cer.

“TI think we have a very competent
board. They have been most interested
in Davidson and aware of their respon-
sibilities.”

100 percent Attendance

‘“‘We have one of the best records of
trustee attendance and participation in
the country. We had a meeting last year
where every member was here. We had
100 percent attendance.

‘Admittedly that is rare, I can never
remember it happening here before, but
we normally get 90 percent at-
tendance,”’ said Spencer.

The trustees hold a regular annual
meeting at the college in April, May. or
June of the year, on a day selected by the
board chairman, to elect officers and to
transact business.

Also, the trustees hold a regular
meeting in the fall, at the call of the
chairman, and other meetings when
called by the chariman or when
requested in writing by eight trustees.
At these meetings, college policy is
described and planned.

The composition of the Board of
Trustees is complex. Forty-three per-
cent of the trustees now serving are
either major corporation executives or
chairpersons for large foundations.

think we could find a place at Davidson for such men,”

“I think such a policy will likely be enacted at the next
meeting of the board,’’ Hall said. -

Hall predicted no drastic changes in policy within the
next few years. “I think Davidson will probably continue
the kind of emphasis it’s had. I don’t know of any major
changes pending in policy,” Hall said.

The board chairman maintained that Davidson was
primarily a Southern school and would probably remain

nm stu-

* J

. 2
fd bet ad bt bt |
a=

Twenty-four percent are ministers,
seminary professors, or presbytery of-
ficers. Twenty-four percent are
lawyers, doctors, or in some way in-
volved with judicial or medical work.

Correcung Over-balances

“The present composition is ac-
cidental. We try to correct over-
balances with our eight at-large
trusteeships,’’ said Davidson.

“Basically the trustées make college
policy and the administration carries it
out. Our greatest function is as a resour-
ce for the administration through our
ideas and work in the field of
policymaking,’’ said White.

The Making of the President

The trustees have the responsibility: of
hiring and firing the president of the
college. The president works closely
with the board in some aspects of
policymaking and it is the president who
must execute policy decisions.

“The board tries to control broad

- policy. Most policy is long range, and in

that sense, much of the long range con-
trol of the college lies with the Board of
Trustees.

Most proposals of policy come from
the president. These ideas often come to
the president from spokesmen of student

, committees. The setting of policy is a

joint effort of the president and the
board. . .the actual application of policy
is the business of the office of the
president,’ said Walter L. Lingle Jr.,
retired Board Chairman.

The members of the board are selec-
ted for terms of four years. A trustee
who has served three consecutive terms
cannot be re-elected until one year has
~expired after his third fall term.

Twenty-two trustees’ are elected by,
and from members of respective North
Carolina Presbyteries. The number
selected from each presbytery depends
on the size of that presbytery. However,
each presbytery is allocated at least one
of the twenty-two memberships.

Eight members of the board are elec-
ted by the trustees themselves, and the
coli¢ge by-aws stipulate that at least
four of these must be alumni.

‘‘As in the case of all trustees, they
must meet the basic criteria outlined in
the college by-laws. The basic duty of
any trustee is to broaden the talents and
perspectives of the Board of Trustees, to

gives something of purpose to the
school.”

Not Provincial

- “Davidson College is a great school,
not a Povetel school with a narrow

ve. ’
_ “It needs men of many talents. We
search throughout the year for people
we think are needed to fill positions with
the board: The selection of Semans was,
for example, a purposeful attempt to get
‘a woman on the board,’’ said‘ Chairman
of the. Trustees Nominating Committee
Don Davidson. é
‘ » (See TRUSTEES, page 5)
