Che Bavidsonian
“The meaning of a message is the change

which it produces in the image.”
--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor.
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor

FEBRUARY 6, 1975

Nocturnal Exams

The system of self-scheduled exams was
established, in part, to reduce examination pressures
on students. In keeping with this procedure, we
believe the option of night exams should be made
available to students.

A proposal for night exams will be presented to the
faculty for their consideration in several days.
Although it is being sent to the faculty without the
recommendation of the Educational Policy Com-
mittee, the plan is fully endorsed by the Student
Government Association. Also Mrs. Donald L. Kim-
mel Jr., administrator of exam distribution, favors a
trial night exam period.

The proposal provides for the scheduling of an ad-
ditional exam period from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on each of
the first two nights of the examination week--
increasing the number of exam periods from eight to
ten.

We join the SGA and Kimmel in supporting the
adoption of the night exam proposal. Under’ the
. present examination arrangements, the student who
desires to take two exams in one day is unduly
pressured. That student must take six hours of exams
within an eight hour period. If night exams were
scheduled, the student could take advantage of a
seven hour break between morning and evening
examination periods.

Further, we believe a student should have the con-
venience of taking an exam not only in the morning
and afternoon, but also at night.

The night exam proposal provides for a reasonable
degree of flexibility in the scheduling of exams. We
urge faculty members to support the proposal at their
upcoming meeting. tes

Publish or Perish

The committee revising the Student Bill of Rights is
currently discussing the question as to whether the

college is officially the publisher of ‘student
publications.”’ \

The question is particularly complex due to the
nebulous relationship currently existing between the
college proper and the various student publications.
Although the college claims that it serves as the of-
ficial publisher, it provides no direct funding for
publications, retains no right to hire or fire student
editors, and makes no guidelines for editorial policy,

all normal responsibilities of a publisher.

The college presently appears to stand libel for the
content of student publications while having no con-
trol over content. This relationship points toa marked
amount of trust or neglect on the part of ad-
ministrators and student editors alike, hopefully

trust.

Although. we have reached a time when a more
definite relationship must be established, we hope
that the trust we have witnessed in the past stands at
the basis of any newly defined relationship. We have
no qualms with the college wishing to assert itself as
publisher of student publications so long as student
editors are free to set their own editorial policies and
work without threat of censorship or insistence upon

advanced approval of copy.

We welcome cooperation with a communications
board that would suggest standards of responsibility
and taste, but if student editors do not exercise final
judgment, do not assume final responsibility for their
publications, those publications cease to be ‘‘student

publications.”

We further request that candidates for editorial

positions be required to display knowledge of ethical

and legal responsibilities of journalists before ap-

proval by the Publications Board for election.

If the college administrators cannot accept the role
of publisher without an insistence upon censorship or
advanced approval of copy, The Davidsonian, for one,
will not only cease to be“‘a student publication,” it

will cease: to be produced by the present editors and ,

staff

Anne Ficklen

395’s: What We Should Know
About Martinis, Suicide, Sex...

Alive to the cries that college
students are appallingly remiss
in the social arts, I decided to do
some browsing in the 395’s or
etiquette section of the library.

Somehow, in a bizarre per-
version of the Dewey decimal
system, the etiquette books
merge without warning into

Beard’s ‘“‘Women As A
Political Force’’ and Betty
Freidan’s ‘‘The Feminine
Mystique” rather like placing a
how-to book on tempra finger
painting next to an analysis of
the Sistine Chapel.

Moreover, jumbled in this
section you can find ‘‘Clues To
Suicide”’, which disappointingly
doesn’t define any rules of
suicide ettiquette, but for an

Faculty Guest Column

hour of macabre relaxation you
can take a test and see if you
can tell fake suicide notes from
real ones—the key is in the back
of the book.

And for budding professors,
Columbia University has
provided ‘‘A Guide to Academic
Protocol’ (395/G976g) where
you can plumb the social func-
tions of Ivy College, through the
seating of two Nobel Prize win-
ners at dinner, faculty con-
vocation line-up, what to wear
at faculty cocktail parties and
the proper wine choices.

But getting down to business,
what you really need for the
world’s social Sahara is Emily
Post’s “Etiquette: The Blue
Book of Social Uses’, fittingly

Funders Demand

Research Relevance

By JOHN E. KELLO
_. Professor of Psychology

When I was approached by a genial young man from The David-
sonian staff and invited to contribute a guest column, my initial
reaction was that I hadn’t been here long enough.

I was new to Davidson, much too new to comment intelligently on
campus or community issues. Indeed, I only recently found the
Rocky River and the Mooresville Bakery, all in one day, and I am
still searching for the port (Ruby? Tawny?) in the Port City.

I certainly don’t have anything approaching a consistent
philosophy of life which would be wotth reading about, much less
writing about. Nonetheless, I was encouraged to write, on any topic
I liked, and at length I accepted.

The temptation was strong (as it would be for any experimental
psychologist worthy of the name) to discuss some technical point of
psychological importance, such as the effects of intermittent rein-
forcement on acquisition and extinction (and to get next Monday’s
lecture written). Instead, I propose to keep myself in check and to
discuss an issue of more general scientific interest. What follows
are some thoughts about “‘pure’’ science and “‘relevance’’.

A distinction is commonly drawn between “pure’’ and ‘‘applied”’
science, mainly in terms of the purpose underlying the research. If
the aim is to produce some immediately relevant, practical effect,
i.e., a cure for cancer, wrinkle-resistant textiles, a successful ad-
vertising technique for enhancing sales of Alka-Seltzer, the re-
search is applied.

If, however, the aim is rather to test a theory, to contribute to a
coherent picture of the way the world or part of it, works, irrespec-
tive of any practical problems to which the research might be ap-
plied, the research is basic, or pure.

The two ‘‘kinds’’ of research merge and overlap extensively, of
course. Results of applied studies necessarily contribute to the pool
of knowledge of basic science; results of pure scientific studies
may well be pulled together and applied at some point to the
tio of practical problems ‘the Manhattan Project springs to
mind.

Applied science is ea.) .v understand. vo one asks, ‘‘But why are
you trying to find a cure for cancer?” Suppose you are, on the other
hand, studying factors controlling seasonal migrati‘n in birds, or
behavioral effects of nonreinforcement in rats, or techniques for
teaching language to chimpanzees

(See CHIMPS page 5)

bound in blue, (395 P85 et).

Here we thrill to the true life
of Sally Hiborn who chooses din-
ner with Bob Bright at a
cafeteria to dining with Dullan
Rich at the Fritz-Cherry; the
moral being one needn’t ‘have
money to date.

We are warned to chew such
awkward verbage as “‘brainy’’,
“Pleased to meet you’’, ‘‘close
friend’’, ‘‘drapes’’, - and
“‘mints’’.

Miss Post’s helpful how to’s
include: how to reprimand a
blundering servant with tact;
how to choose the right calling
card for a three year old and
how to hold an economical
funeral.

And as to letter writing, Miss
Post’s paramount rule is an
enigmatic ‘“‘The Bible is of cour-
se the purest example of Anglo-
Saxon speech.”

Jumping over “Uncle Sam
Needs A Wife’, the most en-
tertaining book by far‘is “‘What
Every Young Man Should
Know’’, published by the editors
of ‘‘Esquire.’’ The book starts
off on a note dear to all
alcoholics hearts--how to make
a perfect martini and the
proper use of peach brandy.

The “Esquire” men mange
to pull their tongues out of their
cheeks long enough to add some
actually sensible advice, though
still advocating hat tipping,
male bill paying (no going
Dutch) and book carrying.

An enlightening unlightened
section follows where men are
told several ways and many
times that all college girls want
a husband and that what all col-
lege boys want is what college
girls don’t want until they’re
married. i

Most intriguing is the section
entitled ‘‘From A Few Men Who
Need No Introduction”. Among
these men, all of whom appear-
ed to have attended Davidson,
rank Beau Brummel, Sir Walter
Raleigh, Thomas Carlyle, Fred
Astaire and Nathaniel Hawthor-
ne.

And here at last the pretense
of ‘‘the gentleman’’ is relaxed
and the editors proclaim, ‘“‘to be
an American is to be kind of an
open faced sandwich of dia-
monds in the rough.”’

So if there’s time between
planning next deb party and
brushing up on the sticky points
of introductions, you might
want to glance at ‘‘What Every
Man Should Know’’-- the car-
toons are almost as funny as the
text:

But if we want our blessing from above.....
