House Of Jung,
Egg Foo Yung,
And

By BOB ENRIGHT
Staff Writer

“‘Bob and Lee Jung spare no expense in bringing you the best...’’;
the words sank indelibly on my mind. And well they should; they
get amply compensated.

Such were my initial reactions to an evening at Charlotte’s
“‘best’”’ Chinese restaurant, the House of Jung.

If I sound overly sardonic, forgive me. Perhaps my expectations
were too high. Whatever the reason, something was bani

The art of Chinese cookery is a secret developed most fully in the
streets of San Francisco and New York (but not Charlotte, N.C.).
Anyone who has ever noted the proliferation of “authentic”
Chinese restaurants ee country ae aye hed explain their
popularity myself inc . (Is it g ? cheap prices? or
raccsonrn else?). :

Certainly the Chinese must have succeeded in opening more
restaurants on a per capita basis than any other ethnic group. Mao
take note; the rewards of capitalism are limitless.

After what seemed about to become a fruitless search for its
location (thanks to having been given an outdated address by the
Charlotte Observer), we finally stumbled across it. .

At the door we were politely informed that ‘‘no, they would not
accept checks’’ despite our protestations that we were DAVIDSON
COLLEGE students. Upon finding that we were bent on staying
anyways, they took precautions by sitting us next to the kitchen.

The menu is a sight to behold, the kind that makes you more con-
fused about what you want to order than you were to begin with. An
impressive array of Cantonese specialties. plus the standard
American fare (be honest now, who could possibly order southern
fried chicken in a Chinese restaurant?) met the eve.

I ordered moo goo beef pan (that is a food), wishing to compare it
with what I had gotten last summer in Stratford, Ontario. The rest
of our party tried various and sundry kinds of egg foo yung, which
for the price I would have been better off with.

Almost immediately arose a serious question concerning proper
etiquette. Amy Vanderbilt, bless your soul, is it appropriate to
drink beer with Chinese food? Having been programmed for years
with the proper response to those kinds of questions, I quickly
replied affirmative (Why else would it be on the menu?), ex-
pecially when it’s Lowenbrau in mind.

The food was adequate in quantity; fair in quality. No, my moo
goo beef pan did not rate with that of the Golden Bamboo in Strat-
ford (lacked seasoning). The egg foo yung was somewhat burnt on
the bottom, the egg rolls were..:well,. just ordinary egg rolls, but
the Lowenbrau was splendid.

We were reasonably satisfied on the whole, but not so much as to
want to return tomorrow. But for a first-time patron, it’s worth the
try. The service is good, the atmosphere is fine (though too
Americanized), and the selection of food outstanding.

é NEXT WEEK-Fried chicken, contry ham. . .or a trip to KA
eaven.

Bandwagon

Thursday, January 16

all week Sculptures and Drawings: Stowe Galleries
John Kehoe

7p.m. . Catholic Mass Lingle Chapel

8 p.m. Reynolds Lecture: Love Auditorium
Kenneth Boulding:

“The Future of the American Economy”’
Kenneth Boulding, an economist, is director of
research on General and Economic Dynamics at
the Institute of Behavioral Science. A former
president of the American Economic Association,
he has written 25 books on a wide range of

economic problems.
Friday, January 17
10a.m. Reynolds Lecture: Perkins Auditorium
“Theory of Grants Economy”’
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecture: Hodson Hall
Poetry reading
8&10:30 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium
“Steel Yard Blues”’
Saturday, January 18
8a.m. Graduate Record Exams Banquet Hall
8p.m. Concert: Love Auditorium
Tim Weisberg
8 p.m. Basketball: Columbia, S.C.
South Carolina (WDAV Broadcast)
Sunday, January 19
8p.m. Installation of SGA Officers Eu Hall

New SGA President John Munce will outlifié his
goals and programs for the new year in a brief
“State of the College’’ address. Refreshments will

be served.
10 p.m. Davidsonian Staff Meeting Newspaper Office
Monday, January 20
8p.m. Basketball: Johnston Gym
East ee (WDAV Broadcast) ?
9p.m.. Hungry d: '  Rathskellar

Rebin Williams and his wife Linda will present a
of folk music at 1975’s first Hungry d.

son of a fornfer minister at DCPC, Williams is
pgs established name on the coffee house ‘cir-

Kingdom Kung RS

The Bavidsonian

“tty

Post Office Box Trauma Hits

Daily, Mail Seeking Students

By STEVE JOHNSON
Asst. Features Editor

The daily trip to the Post Of-
fice can be one of the most con-
tinually depressing experiences
encountered by Davidson
students.

According to Davidson
Postal Operations Supervisor
John Fisher, about half of the
students here receive at least
one piece of mail a day. Those
in the remaining half are often
heard whimpering as they leave
the Post Office during the

. familiar ten o’clock rush hour.

Davidson males more
frequently face the trauma of
an empty post office box than

the females, and Fisher owes °

this phenomenon to the fact that
the girls write many more let-
ters than the boys. He also com-

mented that girls are ‘‘more
congenial to deal with.”’

Recent coeducation has af-
fected male subscriptions little,
“Sports, Illustrated” being the
most popular, but there has
been a natural increase in sub-
scriptions to magazines with
more feminine appeal.

Davidson Postmaster since
1958, Wiiliam B. Mayhew _ in-
dicated that, in spite of the ab-
sence of the students in the sum-
mer, the workload at the Post
Office remains fairly even
throughout the year, with the
obvious exception of the Christ-
mas Holiday Avalanche.

Mail addressed to the college
administration, especially the
admissions office, is much
more regular and voluminous
than that addressed to the
students.

Tuesday, January 21

10 a.m.

Senator Fred Harris:

Banquet Hall

“National Health Insurance’’ puter
Democratic Presidential candidate Fred Harris is

on campus as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow. In ad-
dition to numerous smal meetings with students,
faculty and staff, the former U.S. Senator will give

three major addresses.
7p.m. Worship Service DCPC
$ p.m. Sen. Fred Harris: Phi Hall
: eee New Populism’’
p.m. ungry d: Rathskell
Robin Williams iss
Wednesday, January 22
10 a.m. LaDonna Harris: Banquet Hall
“The Future of Native Americans” bi
LaDonna Harris, wife of Sen. Fred Harris, is a
Comanche Indian. and heads a national
organization which suports Indian action projects
and self-help programs. She is deeply involved in
the Women’s Political Caucus, NOW, Common
ae Cause, 7 the Urban Coalition.
p.m. ine Film: Love Auditori
‘ ee ud a Summer Night”’ a
p.m. ungry d: Rathskel
Robin Williams oe
Thursday, January 23
10a.m. Coffee & Cokes Ban
With Fred Harris or el
1p.m. Lunch with Fred Harris Depot.

According to Mayhew, the
admissions office is always get-
ting mail--applications during
the fall and winter and inqui-
ries throughout the rest of
the year.

Another factor that con-
tributes to the regularity of the
workload throughout the year is
the fact that time which or-
dinarily would be used for
processing incoming mail
during the school year is taken
up by readdressing and for-
warding mail in the sum-

mertime.
Mayhew commented that this
operation — usually runs

smoothly because nearly all
students respond to the change
of address notice sent to all
students six weeks prior to the
end of the spring term.

Mayhew did suggest that en-
tries to Davidson National Print
and Drawing Contest and ap-
plications to the college sum-
mer camp programs provide
minor swells in the incoming
mail during the winter’ and
spring months, respectively.
But he added with a touch of
pride, that the increase in
volume is “nothing we can’t
handle.’’

The Postmaster continued to
say that the number of
packages received by the
students is greatest at the
beginning of each school year,
and then it diminishes, owing to
the fact that generous relatives
send food to help the students
start the year, and parents dis-
cover forgotten clothing and
mail it to school.

Mayhew’s regular staff con-
sists of one Postal Operations
Supervisor and three clerks, all
of whom fill forty-hour work
weeks. He also has a group of
‘flexible employees,’’ who
work as needed and have no 40
hour schedule guarantee.

Though no townspeople have
mailboxes at their homes, the
Davidson Post Office does
maintain a rural route 84.3
miles in length and runs up to
the river and back around to
Concord.

The small operation enables
more personal service, ac-
cording to Mayhew. This: ex-
plains why ‘‘many people
prefer coming in than receiving

_ Mail at home.”

The Postmaster does admit,

“‘Anyone dealing with the Cd

is bound to run inte com ts,

but we have a nice group here.”’

Cards of appreciation and cakes

around Christmas time attest to

Davidson’s. appreciation of the

algae service at the Post Of-
ice. ‘
