March 20, 1975

Sige Bavideonian:

Five

Thom Nicoll

Erie Walker

Commencement this spring will be
held in ponchos and hip boots instead of
caps and gowns. A Davidson man
needs no introduction. He’s the one at
the head of the bread line with a genuine
sheepskin umbrella. _.

I insist that I was only joking. It was
during exams and I mumbled over
morning coffee that even though the
last two commencements had been
beautiful days I had received a 3 a. m.
vision that it would rain whenever I
graduated.

I didn’t mean to offend. Now all the
autos I depend on are sinking up to wind-
shields in backyard bog.

Will it rain or won’t it on diploma day?
Anyone searching for a raffle idea to
pay the spring phone bills might try this.
The first name drawn to correctly

University Creates. Management

Davidson engenders gentlemen.

Even our women students would be gen-

j, tlemen, if they were only men. That is

_why we better than your average
said that the role of

the university is to create gentlemen. I.

learned. about ort in a. highly
Peckham in the current issue of the
South Addantic Bulletin.

Professor Peckham is a well-esteemed
teacher and critic who is now at the
University of South Carolina. ‘

His article is entitled ‘‘A Doctor
of Philosophy in the Humanities?” but
he covers a lot of ground before he
comes around to answer his own
question affirmatively .;

Professor Peckham makes a number
of“outrageous observations, which are
probably also true, about the academic
establishment, (the academic Mafia, as
he puts it).

Most of these I shall leave for your
own personal perusal. One line of
analysis, however, cut the
darkness of my misunderstanding like a
lightening-bolt, blinding me with its
lucidity. Here it is. I can do no other.

According to Peckham, what
Newman actually meant, and what the
traditional role of the university has
been. is the creation of 4 bureaucracy of
social management. This group is com-

Scott Reid_

‘task: of. imposing:
” elites’ skill of verbal manipulation, of

\

posed ‘of an intelligent and well-
educated elite, whose role it is to operate
the institutions of government and in-
dustry, and above all, to impose the
peal ruling ideology or ideologies,

thus preventing decision-making by the
use of force.

consists of words,.and the
it depends upon the

persuasive rhetoric.

Public education is the government’s
method of making people amenable to
social management. Extended public
education, formerly to age 17, and now,
for half of the population, to age 22, has
the function of keeping millions of young
people off the labor market.

The university. no longer selects the
fraction of the gr “nde merit
management, as it di or
War II; rather, it becomes merely a
device for ‘‘custodial maintenance.”’

The consequent effects on the
level of academic work are ble.

The reason that I find all of this so
revealing is that it abolishes the conflict
I have been worrying over for the past
year: that conflict between Davidson’s
professed. liberal..arts, but actual. pre-
professional and pre-managerial orien-
tation...

A “liberal arts” education, with selec-
ted students, in which one is taught to
deal with alternative — in light

becomes proficient in the
of words and ideas, is only

- ideology of
—

in. which one
jon
best:
method for turning out “‘gen-

of the reigning one,

possible
_lemen” to take over the responsibilities
‘of maintaining,

enforcing,
modifying (as the need arises), the

, amnfike most of the large.
statey and private colleges, has not
allowed itself to become a custodial
maintenance institution.

Davidson takes only the promising,
discourages the ‘‘incapable’’ into tran-
sferring to large State U., and turns out
tomotrow’s college presidents, doctors,
lawyers, corporaticn heads. ministers,

and

\\ Spring Deluges Invoke
. Muddied Grad Ideas

predict the weather gets a substitute for
baccalaureate.

I for one would feel more appropriate
and ceremonious in a poncho and hip
boots. After all don’t we don cap and
gown in imitation of the old day-to-day

dress of institutional learning’s
forefathers?

And whats is the day-to-day dress of
Davidson these days?

Alas I suspect that somewhere there
lurks a practical administrative soul in
charge of ceremonies who is blind to the
romance of an oilskin procession
dodging puddles. He also holds a grudge
against grammar schobd! administrators
who didn’t close school in a blizzard.

At the first drop of Sunday morning
rain this vengeance-deranged mind will
chortle out the order for Indoor
Auditorium. And then the fun begins.

It’s a pity everyone here doesn’t
remember registration stampedes. If
you enjoy Davidson relics like ROTC
stick around for the rain on com-
mencement and watch the crunch on
second floor Chambers. Great Aunts
have been known to want in at
graduations with more determination
than you ever fought for a seminar
yeareago*'

Have you ever seen. of how
South Ameri¢an fans file for the exits
‘attheendof soccer matches?

Pero LAKE BAIN EVERY. DAY,

ng so pleasant. Like
bemee Savings Time. Now you can
sit by the window watching it rain for
another hour every day.

How else can you fight a flood but with
a laugh and a dream of wacky com-
mencements? I’ll spare you the melan-
choly metterings this rain mostly in-
enimac T enuld go.an for longer than

teachers and burea {NOS dAIsseiB0.1d,, JO Jou few
have been solidly -ueq ay} Japun azisayyuAs Aey) yorym ‘soniq U, rt
“liberal,” i.e. vers wy} A1 pure ‘uegng-ousy ‘UNpeT ‘Hoo ‘zzef Jo an} ike
the  Judeo-Chri: -X1Ul & Jno synd puwgq UBUL IYBIE SY], “19784 9y)
capitalist political seed ‘aiTIM,, Aq pamorjos sem yoa ,AyUNG Ss] ach
moderate, sociz ang 1 Mg ‘S] I] UM MoUy, 7,U0q J,, ‘afBurs 71y na
tradition. Jat) yywMH AQUNOD By} J9AO [Te SOABM Buyyeul ths
And we do a ratt uaeq SEY pue cozeweTEy Ul psjz1e}s 308 afddry
think. Now if the ..2{ddry,, ive
enough positions t: ano] :)4909U0R ‘wdg tg
Davidson’s future is yospiaeq BuljoreD seq :yeqaseq ‘urdos:1 {7
All of this is some UosprAeq ueryoeyeddy :yoe1], wd cut

_,0f Professor. Peckham’s article. I have .

oversimplified it, and have taken it out
of the context of his argument. I recom-
mend that you read the article to find
out where I have cheated.

: su
22 que ‘Aepanjes iin -

is waterlogged tonight.

If rains don’t end can plumbers be far

behind?

Davidson ReporterWatches Washington

A new column. So we now set about to
christen it with a bottle of ink and give a
cheer as we watch it set sail in an ocean
of newsprint, for better or worse. This
column exists circumstantially: If we
were not in Washington, D.C. now, if we
were not experiencing something dif-
ferent from those who are, presumably,
reading this, then we would not now be
in print. Be that as it may.

“1’m going to American University for
a semester.”

“Oh, you mean ‘Jew U.’.”

We feel like a couple of wandering
WASP’s here. Wilensky, take note.

Can a campus student store have a
larger variety and larger number of
volumes than the campus library? That
question can be seriously asked here at
American University. In a P. Nicholl’s
nightmare, the textbooks in the

University Bookstore form an acre -

maze, but, typically, the ones you need
for the first week of classes will not be in
until the middle of the term sometime,

On this campus of 6,000 undergrads
there is a school library smaller than the
one E.H. built: That is to say the size of
the physical plant of this library is

smaller, not that it necessarily has less
volumes than the Little Library. We do
not know how many volumes it has
because the hours are so limited we
have not been inside yet. Who ever
heard of a library closing at 9:30 p.m.?

Of course only. a short
seven mile sprint away, is the Library of
Congress. Being without open stacks, it
takes forty-five minutes minimum to
order up any one particular book from
its three hundred miles of shelves.

Do not plan to get any studying done in
this library unless you arrive there three
hours before it closes.

One of our academic requirements is
an internship doing volunteer work in an
office on or around “‘the Hill,” otherwise
known as the U.S. Capitol and
associated Senate and House office
buildings.

Carlyle’s internship is’ with
Congressman’ Bill Hefner of the 8th
District of North Carolina from whom he
rips-off free cigerattes (actually
provided by the tobacco lobby) and
‘reams of stationery.

When he is actually working, Carlyle
does so under. the office Legislative

Assistant who is responsible for in-
troducing legislation, answering some
constituent. mail, making policy.
statements, and deciding how to vote on
an issue, all in the

Carlyle does. research for the L.A. and
is occasionally brought into discussions
on legislative matters for his opinion..
Typically, Carlyle will do the research
on a question a constituent has raised in
a letter, and then the L.A. will write the
actual answer.

Carlyle feels he must be doing
something right because he has been
asked .to work an extra day this. week.
Office rumor has it that the real reason
he has been asked to do overtime work is
‘because he is the only one who knows
how to run the office coffee machine.

After abandonning all hope of being
able to do something honest in this town
of tear-dimmed alabaster, I decided to
try to break into the Washington Press
Corps. To everyone’s chagrin, I suc-
ceeded. My internship application reads
in part as follows: ‘Duties of Intern:
General Assignment reporting, covering
Capitol Hill, first as trainee, eventually

name of the

on his own, for Pacifica Evening News
in New York City, Los Angeles, Fresno,
Berkeley, San Francisco, and Houston.”

I’ve started an informal investigation
to search out the clerical error that gave
me this job. I’m sure Wood
must have accidentally erased eighteen
years of my past reoerd.

The seminars we participate in, and
which make up half of our work here,
take place in a variety of offices with
Congressmen, Senators, committee
staff members, and political observers.

The most consistently interesting
people to talk to are Congressional staff
members. This is because they are not
caught up with the reelection furor the
Congressmen have constantly in mind
(some offices have actually held
strategy sessions looking ahead to ’76),
and because they deal with the daily
practicalities of office operations.

Whereas a Senator will ‘‘beg to differ
with the Honorable and Distinguished
Senator from North Carolina,” a
Senatorial staff member has said,
“Helms votes conservatively out of
ignorance.”
