Five

The Davidsonian

January 9, 1975

Nuz7915 WS YOK ‘a
3000 Jo GybamM'>

Thom Nicoll

LISOVD WIIG Yok TL
SgN-H%1H WOHDS HOIH ‘“b

Pressures Disrupt Friendly Spirit

Freshman Orientation, 1971: A
speaker (I forget whom) is telling us
about a student who only as a senior had
come to realize what Davidson had to of-
fer, and was sorry he had only a year to
go after it.

Maybe he had taken three years to get
down to work. The speaker thinks this
was sad, and encourages us to go after it
from the start.

I suppose everyone goes after
whatever they think that Davidson
does offer. In any case, I am now an old
and experienced senior, and I feel that I
have just this year come to realize what
of high value Davidson has to offer.

And it’s not helping my grades.

What Davidson offers that I like is an
extraordinary number of interesting,
talented, amusing, and friendly people.
ae concentration is the remarkable
thing.

Letters To The Editor

That is why, when I go home to a town
which claims 300,000 residents (where
they hide them, I don’t know), I feel as
though I’m lost in a desert, whereas
when I’m at Davidson, I’m_over-
whelmed by opportunities to spend tim
with people I like. ;

That is also why I have never been
bored at Davidson. Of course, some lec-
tures were killers, but I mean I’ve never
been profoundly bored, because, for me,
there is never enough time to do my

. Studies, to sleep, and to be adequately

gregarious.

I must credit Professor Abbott for a
very memorable column he wrote two
years ago, in which he argued that
Davidson’s greatest asset was that it of-
fered community.

That community is what I shall miss
about Davidson. I won’t miss my carrel
in the E.H. Little Library, nor the food,

nor the exams, nor the homecoming
queen contest, nor, emphatically, cour-
se registration.

I’ll miss the intellectual stimulation,
but only as distinct from academic com-
pulsion.

I don’t know if Davidson offers more
in this respect than most schools; I do
know, however, that, at other schools,
people probably have more freedom to
explore such community.

Wherever it derives, ‘‘academic
pressure’’ tends to keep people apart. -

I wanted to write a positive column for
a change, but I find myself drifting back
onto the same negativity.

The fact is, though, that while David-
son’s academic “‘success’’ attracts good
people, it also gets in the way of their
benefiting from, among other things,
each other.

Man Bogged
By Authority

_ Every year in this old peg when the
fireplaces are i be used with
regularity, it comes time to read “A
Christmas Carol’’ and to experience
Christmas.

It is a time to slow down except for

‘bursts of shopping. It is a time to smell

odors, to notice colors and to break up
the rush of life.

I know people will smile at some of
this and castigate commercialism, etc,
etc., etc. But it is a time to me when the
story of Scrooge is told to good effect.

There is a line in Dicken’s book which
refers to man in his brief vain authority.
This brings to mind nursing assistan
telling mental patients to line up at the
ad only on a hour a that each hour

es predadin one door opening in-
stead of ten. Y oe

Visions appear of professors proudly
pronouncing their judgements on a
student’s expression. A view comes of
Nixon and his Reichsministers Erlich-
man and Haldeman bony ;

A question about myself when my lit-
tle girl asked to go visit someone. Brief
vain authority.

None of us is immune it seems.
Policemen, social workers,..... people. I
once saw a noted and respected United
States Senator dress down an elevator
boy in the Senate office building. ‘Don’t
you know a Senator’s ring?’”’

“Yessir.”

“T rang three times. You’re to answer
that ring before picking up all these
others.”’

Etc., etc., etc. ‘

It was a lesson in democracy. We had
better not throw stones at the Russians
until we get more plexi-glass.

Of course brief vain authority isn’t
confined to politicians and the antidote
of humility is hard to swallow for all of
us. They say that Thomas Jefferson’s
landlady didn’t wait dinner for him on
the day of his inauguration.

Jefferson survived. So may we all.

Team Deserves Continuing Support

To the Editor:

As I sit here, some disturbing thoughts
have occurred to me.

After our disastrous road trip north, a
lot of students seem to have written the
basketball team off for this: year. To
begin with, that’s about as ridiculous as
the euphoria which swept the campus
after we beat Ohio State.

But I wonder how many people who
were planning to stay for the game
decided to split early after our recent
poor showing. I w I was tempted. I
don’t want to make a big thing of this but
I don’t want to stay silent either.

The varsity basketball team deserves
our support for a number of reasons
unique to this school.

For one thing, the team is composed of
more than just players, they are people.
They have hopes, fears, and interests
besides basketball. Yes, gentle reader,
basketball players are people too. If
you’re disappointed when they lose, how
do you think they feel?

But back to my main point-as opposed
to a number of other schools, the basket-
ball students here are also students. As
far as I have been able to determine,
nobody has relaxed any standards for
them. They are students who happen to
play basketball, very well.

But they are not set apart, a separate
class with separate rules. Phat has some
very beneficial effects. One of their
motivations for playing (yes, I know
there are some others) is that they are
playing for us, the students, their fellow
students. 4

So what if they’re not number one.
They still deserve our support. -

I know you care about achievement
Davidson, do you still care about

le?
cba itis Robert Shearer ’77
Davidson College

To the Editor:

After Dee renting from a five-day -

stay in the beautiful city of Prague,

Czechoslovakia and finding myself with
a little time on my hands before the

resuming of normal class activities, I’ve
decided to write a few lines about the
Junior Year Abroad experience as I’ve
seen it to date.

My recent trip, my recollection of
four and one-half months in Europe, and
the article about the pressure one often
feels at Davidson which appeared on the
front page of the December 20 issue of
THE DAVIDSONIAN have all moved
me to describe some of the aspects of a
year abroad.”

The JYA program allows a student to
temporarily ‘‘escape’’ from most of the

ressure at Davidson, yet still receive
he nine credits he needs for the year.

If the student plans ahead, receiving

_credit outside the German department

(the majority of courses are usually
taken in German literature) is entirely
possible and, inmost cases, no problem.

Academic life and course structure 1S
much different from that in American
colleges and universities. Thom Nicoll
accurately described the academic at-
mosphere at a European school in his
article relating some aspects of the year
he spent in Montpellier, France, so_I
need not reiterate.

The one outstanding feature of the
Davidson program is that the ad-
ministration doesn’t require grades,
everything is recorded on a pass-fail
basis. It would be ridiculous and im-
practical to do so (strangely, the other

two American programs here do require .

grades andia specific number of hours in
class per week) because there are no

‘ recorded grades in the system here;

course structure simply doesn’t permit
it.

I have found that this method gives
me the freedom to concentrate on the

areas of a subject which hold my .

greatest interest, and affords me the
time to pursue other interests not direc-
tly involved .with the courses I am
Capen ine. ee

oA one arrives (seven weeks before
the beginning of. the regular winter
semester-this year we left the U.S. on
August 23, the semester began the
second week in October) he is greeted

by the advisor for the group, then

assigned a dormitory room by this ad-

visor. .

One quickly learns that essentially
nobody is here except other Americans.
and that things won’t get going for
another six weeks. During this period of
‘“‘emptiness,’’ the student must also en-
dure the six-week intensive language
course which consists of three hours
class time per day--five days a week
two lectures (in German, of course) of
approximately 11% hours each per week,

‘and two one-hour periods of language

lab per week. ©

To top it all off, one must then take a
four-hour examination given by the
foreign students office of the university.
If he fails (two out of seven failed this
year), he must take a specific course

specialising in the language and reading ©

and listening comprehension, then take
the exam again until he passes it. (The
second time around is never any
problem. )

All this is clearly no fun, but it is, for
the most part, valuable in orienting the
D.C. student to the language and culture
ofthe peoplehereinGermany. _

Once all this is completed, however,
and all the regular students have retur-
ned, the pure begins to look much
brighter. If you are friendly, so are the
Germans.

The student who is willing to adapt to
the way of doing things here (not always
make comparisons to how it is in
America); who is open to hear ideas
about all facets of life from politics
(especially important here in Marburg--
I call it:the Berkeley of Germany) -to
religion; and who looks patiently to his
hallmates and acquaintances for help
with the language and in making social
contacts will certainly find the time
spent here as a student extremely wor-

while and very enjoyable.

The opportunity to travel extensively
is an obvious pe. when assessing the
value of a year in kits by oy sea

Marburg is somewhat centrally
located--access to the East Block coun-
tries: (Czechslovakia, Poland, East

Germany), the Scandinavian countries,
and the Mediterranean area is not more
than a day’s travel by bus or train.

' Great Britain is also within easy reach.

The largest student organization here
_at the University (A St. A) has a travel
agency which books trips all over
Europe, both east.and west, at special
rates to students.

Two of us were in Prague last week
during the Christmas holidays (Christ-
mas lasts three days in Europe), three
others are presently in Moscow.
Speaking for myself and the trip to
Prague, the trip was very well
organized (but not over-organized) and
a great experience, ‘all at a very low,
reasonable cost. ; :

Don’t get me wrong, you can’t travel
and live over here for peanuts, but with
a little looking and asking around for in-
formation, and some minor belt-
tightening here and there, the total cost
of more than ten months in Europe can
be about the same as a year at Davidson
(which: is really only eight months in
duration). j

Cost, of course, varies from person to
person, but I just want to emphasize that
the problem of expense should not
eliminate anybody from considering or
spending a year in a foreign land on a
JYA program.

Studying in a rather large school
(15,000 students) is also a new ex-
pers for the Davidson student; and

e quickly feels the atmosphere in which
knowing almost every face which he en-
counters by name lacking.

Being without many small con-
veniences (you can’t bring everything
with you on the plane, you. know),
without real contact to close friends and
home, .and being considered a
“foreigner” are all things the student
Paani easnsedied
potential of life as a stu abroad.

, ~"~ ‘im Hose '76
Phlipps-Universitat
Marburg, West crermany:
