November 5, 1976 the david lan

~~» Parents’ Weekend 76

Friday, November 5, 1976
’ Parents are cordially invited to the Sacred Music Convocation

events.
11am Address by Davidson College Professor Wilmer Hayden Welsh:
“What’s a Century or Two?”—hodson hall, Fine Arts Building
3pm Capsule Courses | (Professors Case and Kelton)

Dr. Case, “Family Portrait...from the Animal Kingdom” —Dana
Dr. Kelton, “The Nature and Nurture of Intelligence” —Chambers
3:30 pm Forum moderated by Ralph Blakely, Jr., Organbuilder: “The Dev-
elopment of the American Organ” —Davidson College Presby-
terian Church
8:15 pm Organ recital featuring the works of American composers, by
John Weaver, head of the organ department at Curtis Institute,
director of fnusic at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in
New York and conductor of the St. Andrew’s Music Society
chorus and orchestra. —Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
A reception honoring Mr. Weaver will be held in the church parlor
immediately following the recital.
2-4 pm Parents’ appointments with faculty advisors
8:15 pm “The College Widow”, a comedy presented by the D.C. Drama
. Department. Parents are encouraged to see.one of the perform-
ances on Saturday evening if possible, as this Friday seh sie per-
formance is open to the general public.
* 10:30 pm Student Talent—900 Room

Frank Bliss
r masks so one __ ity of the children. This photograph, Saturday, November 6, 1976
ae ua = ar Biddy i in the Giaplay, was 8:30 am Parents Council Breakfast and Business Meeting
Pasta. sai wee Sree ga 10am Conferences with faculty advisors. Life/Work Planning, Mr. Ken
reeded here in _— happy, and should one look at the Wood, “interns. Externs. and Job Placement”
ioto of a group photo for a while, he will find that 10am Soccer Preview, Coach Chip Stone. “A Guide to Soccer Strategy
vs the personal- happiness to be contagious. and Manuevers”—Chambers .
11am Soccer: D.C. vs. Virginia, on the soccer field rf:
: 11:30 am Sacred Music Convocation: Preview of a new choral work,
IS “Mara, A Christmas Antiphon”, by Wilmer Hayden Welsh.

— Davidson College Presbyterian Church, with Wilmer Hayden
Welsh as organist and choirmaster.

Series 1pm : Picnic lunch

‘ 2pm “Why We Believe in a Liberal Arts Education!”
The Artist Series will host the St. 3pm Capsule Courses || (Professors Johnston, Case and Kelton)
Paul Chamber Orchestra Wednesday, yi i
November 10 at 8:15 pm in Love Dr. Johnston, “Scotch on the Rocks —-Chambers
Auditorium. Dr. Case, “Family Portrait...from the Animal Kingdom’,—Dana
In 1968, the Saint Paul Chamber Dr. Kelton, “The Nature and Nurture of Intelligence” —Chambers
Orchestra became the only full-time 4:30-6:30 pm Cocktail hours in faculty homes
"and professional chamber orchestra in 5:30 pm “The College Widow"—Hodson Hall
the United States. It now employs 6:30-9 pm Supper—Chambers Banquet Hall
eyenty-five musicians drawn from 8:15 pm “The College Widow”, presented in Hodson Hall, their last per-
orchestra backgrounds all over the forrnanes
country. ; pa
‘Under Music Director Dennis Rus- 10:30 pm Student Talent—900 Room
' gell Davies, who came to the orchestra
in 1972, the Saint Paul Chamber Sunday, November 7, 1976
Orchestra has attained national and
- international recognition as one of the 8:30 am Alumni Breakfast, for alumni parents, their sons and daughters
best small orchestras in the world. Its 10am Capsule Courses: Eumenean Hall, Dr. Alexander McKelway,

“The Role of the Christian in Politics”; Philanthropic Hall, Dr.
Max Polley, “Civil Religions in America”
11am Morning worship at the church of your choice
12:30 pm President’s luncheon—Chambers Banquet Hall

audiences in the metropolitan area of
Minneapolis and Saint Paul have
‘increased dramatically,

The Chamber Orchestra’s reper-
toire covers some 400 years of

NIZE}. =

c
ants posets such as Bach, Telemann, and
wT Handel, through the classical compo-

sitions of Haydn, Mozart and Beeth-
i oven.
Special emphasis is placed on twen- |i;
ili powder tieth-century composition and works |,
1, green pepper, by American composers, making the
d tomatoes and | full repertoire cover the broad range
of rarely-heard classical-to-contemp-
orary music for full orchestra or
smaller ensembles.

From part-time beginnings, the
SPCO’s season has grown to forty
weeks a year, with four series of
concerts: Capital, Perspectives, Great
Composers, and Baroque.

In each of the cities, the orchestra
performs a.series of concerts and
provides educational services at all
levels, elementary through college. —

Now in its ninth season, the Saint
Paul Chamber Orchestra continues to
offer the wide range of music and
services which have made it one of the
pre-eminent orchestras in the United
States.

dd beans. Sim-
utes. (It is easy
ack pot.) It may
‘ spaghetti. Ser-

‘e Mousse

veet chocolate

t

calded milk and

minute. Pour
ps and place in
ntil congealed.
hipped*cream.

EAGER DAVIDSON SENIORS prepare to meet the real world.
