su |?

the davidsonian

April 9, 1976

Students gyrate to disco delirium

By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

Somewhere, lost in the depths of
your memory, lurks a night when you
were in the eighth grade and you went
to your first dance. Chances are that
dance was arecord hop, well chap-
eroned by the old maid Home Ec.
teacher. Live bands were too
expensive for junior high budgets.

Now that you are a sophisticated
collegiate person you go to dances
quite often. There are no chaperones
anymore, but that’s not the only
difference between a disco dance and
the record hops of your junior high
days. Disco dances were born in
discotheques and nurtured there for
economic reasons. Disco dances are
also cheap to run compared to live
band dances.

_ However, there is much much more
behind the successful disco than just
playing a few records. Steph Flowers,
the main disco man around campus,
believes that disco dances are depen-
dent on a certain type of music and
atmosphere. Flowers learned about
running disco dances last year while

(LiLae

he was in France.

According to Flowers, running
disco dances could be and perhaps
should be a full time job. ‘““You have
to know what people are into, and
what people are playing. You have to
be familiar with the beginnings and
endings of the songs, the meter and
rhythm -- the details are endless.’’
Equipment is also very important to
a disco. The set-up in the 900 Room,
has potential. The speakers are great,
but, according to Flowers, a new
turntable is needed. Flowers says
he would never use tapes for a disco
because it makes it hard to follow the
feel of the crowd.

His philosophy is to build up the
music and the crowd. Sometimes this
calls for starting off slowly -- ‘‘I have
to take time to get into the music
myself.’’ Half of the records he uses
are his own; a few are provided.
‘‘Sometimes I panic thinking of
playing 100 to 150 cuts a night, but
it’s really a lot of fun for me.”

Apparently disco dances are fun for
a lot of people around Davidson. Duff
Bruce, seasoned veteran of Davidson
social gatherings, says that discos are

much better than the dances David-
son used to have. Discos are low key
relaxed gatherings -- ‘‘Not so much of
an event.”

Just last Friday night it was
apparent that the sparse crowd
watching talented pianist Michael
Lewis grew as the time for the disco
dance drew nearer. The eating clubs

‘around Patterson court like to give

disco dances because they are cheap
and the extra money can be spent on
beer or booze.

The main complaint about disco
dances is that most of the music
seems to sound the same. Flowers
says that this is because most people
aren’t familiar enough with the music
to notice the differences in rhythm
and meter. One student pointed out
that discos at Davidson tend to
stagnate, not only because of the
music, but because you see the same
people at every dance. In a city,
where discos go on at clubs all the
time you at least see new people.

Flowers believes that the future of
discos at Davidson lies in using

OTT LLLLLL ALUM MMMM hhh hhh hddddhle SLLLLILLLTILEDLEELLAELELESSELSEEESSEETSEESSSEISSLAEPDEEPESIPELPSSLEPLPP POPS P EPSP OCLLI OLLI OPT,

Monday, April 12, 1976

themes -- a combination disco and
casino night would be great.’’ Lee

Grogan, social chairman at PAX

House, says that after you have all
the details worked out -- ‘“‘The people
who come to the disco make the
disco.”’

The average Davidson dancer is
familiar with the songs and keeps
time to the music fairly well. A step
up is the dancer who knows the
Bump. The Bump is the easiest of the
more stylized dances, requiring only
hip movement with the beat of the
music.

There are a few above average
dancers even at Davidson. These are
the people that you see at every
dance. They have studied the
diagrams in Time magazine and
learned the steps to the Hustle. When
they bump they don’t just bump,
they add all sorts of gyrations.

An unidentified observer was heard
to observe ‘‘They look like a couple of
Verna’s pigeons during Bawcoo court-
ship.”

I'll give it a 60.

The beat goes on...

Bandwagon

N
N N
N N
N “AllDay _ Fifth Davidson National StoweGalleries J
N 1pm Golf: Appalachian Boone, N.C. N
N 3 pm Women’s Tennis: South Carolina Davidson
N 8:15 pm Senior Organ Recital: DCPC
N Carl Clinton Schwartz N
N N
\ Tuesday, April 13, 1976 N
N XN
N AllDay _ Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries J
N 10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room N
N 4:30 pm Small Group Leaders Mtg. Lg. Conf. Room N
N ‘7 pm Worship Service perc JN
N Friday, April 9, 1976 7pm An Evening with the Plant People Morrison Room N
N 7:30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Perkins Auditorium Jf
N  AllDay Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries Safety Course N
N 3pm Women’s JV Tennis: Pfeiffer Davidson : N
N 8pm BLACK WEEK: Concert— Love Auditorium Wednesday, April 14, 1976 N
N “Tavares” N
N 10:30pm = BLACK WEEK: Dance— Banquet Hall § AllDay _ Fifth Davidson National StoweGalleries
N ‘‘Innusphere” 10 am Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Lg.Conf.Room f§
N 2pm Tennis: Appalachian State Davidson N
N Saturday, April 10, 1976 3pm Basebalt: Firman, Greenville,S.C.
N 3 pm Women’s JV Tennis: Wingate “‘B”’ Davidson §
N All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries 4pm Films: ‘‘William Carlos Williams” Honors Center N
N All Day Sailing: UNC-CH, Duke - Kerr Lake ee and “Days of Dylan Thomas” N
N 8am Law School Admission Test Banquet Hall 7pm NC PIRG Large Conference Room N
N 10am Davidson Track Relays Davidson Tpm \ Poetry: Basil Bunting 900 Room jf
A lpm Baseball: William & Mary Lexington, Va. TBA Entertainment: Larry Keen 900 Room \
N 2pm Tennis: VMI Lexington, Va. N
N 2pm Rugby: Camp Lejeune Davidson Thursday, April 15, 1976 N
N  8&10:30pm BLACK WEEK: Film— Love Auditorium N
N “‘Claudine”’ All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries N
. 10am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall NSN
N° Sunday, April! 11, 1976 1pm Track: Appalachian, Western Boone,N.C. §
N Carolina N
N All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries 7:30pm | YM/YWCA Discussion Group SmallConf.Room 4
N  ipm Tennis: Washington & Lee Lexington, Va. 8pm SPRING FROLICS: Concert — Love Auditorium W
N 6pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room “Pure Prairie League” N
N 8 oe Interorganizational Forum Mtg. be! Conf. Room TBA Entertainment: Larry Keen 900 Room N
N

SAA AAS

wz

ACOMPPPSPPFPSSASSLSFFSSSAEESSS LG (A LELAE hehehe Cit hhh hhh hs hhh sdssssssssssssssissssish¢isiiiishssssitisnhwnihhninin

Sn: 0 P

PIEDMONT INSURANCE TH a

Oe
6 First Union National.

CAVIDSON

173 N. Main Street
AGENCY, INC. WRGIE —taterized Dealer RESVILLE

