de
XN THE REAL WORLD

By ELLEN SCHLAEFER
Staff Writer

October 8: Flutist Andras Adorjan accompanied by Anita Tritt, piano,
and Irene Maddox, flute. Pease Auditorium, CPCC, 8:15 pm. Details:
537-9592.

MUSIC:

October 8-9: Earl Scruggs Revue, Boone, N.C.

October 9: Loretta Lynn and Conway Twitty. Charlotte Coliseum at 8:00
pm. Details: 372-3600.

October 9-10: Gino Vanelli at Fox Theatre, Atlanta, Georgia. Details:
Write the Fox.

October 11: Frank Zappa at Greensboro Coliseum.
October 16: Z. Z. Top at the Charlotte Coliseum.
October 17: Arlo Guthrie at Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte.

October 22 and 24: ‘‘Rigaletto.’’ Charlotte Opera Association. Details:
332-7177, 9 am to 5 pm on weekdays. Or write COA, Spirit Square, 110
East Seventh Street, Charlotte, NC 28202.

ART:

Through October 22: Rowe Art Gallery at;UNCC. Wood, stone,
plexiglass and metal sculptures by nine artists. 9 am to 5 pm weekdays.
Details: 597-2271.

Through October 31: Arts and Science Museum, Statesville. Paintings
by Jill Troutman, prints by Austin Lowrey. 2 to 5 pm, Tuesday through
Sunday. Details: 873-4734.

“FASHIONS: 1840-1940” at the Mint Museum, 501 Hempstead Place,
Charlotte. 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday, and 2 to 5 pm
Saturday and Sunday. Details: 334-9723.

Through October 15: Robinet Art Gallery, Ltd. 1329 East Blvd.,
Charlotte. Silkscreen prints of American folk art subjects by Allen
Saalburg of Bucks County, Pa. 10 am to 5:30 pm, Tuesday through
Sunday. Details: 334-5879.

October 8-29; Lincoln Museum of Art—Fifth Art Exhibition. Works by
local artists showing at the Lincoln County Library, 306 W. Main Street,
Lincolnton. Details: 735-0669: or 735-7166.

THEATER:

Through October 9: ‘‘Bad Jo-Jo and Other Good Citizens.’’ A collection
of four short plays by contemporary authors. Staged by Actors
Contemporary Ensemble at the Entertainment Place in Spirit Square,
North Tryon Street, Charlotte. Curtain at 8:15 pm. Details: 372-9664, 9
am to 5 pm.

October 9: ‘‘Don’t Bother Me, I Can’t Cope.’’ National Touring
Company of this Broadway musical. Ovens Auditorium at 8 pm. Details:
372-3600 or 2700 E. Independence Blvd., Charlotte, NC 28205.

October 8-9 and 13-16: ‘‘And Miss Reardon Drinks a Little.” UNCC
Studio Theatre. Curtain at 8:15 pm. Details: 597-2477, 9 am to 5 pm,
Monday through Friday.

Through October 16: ‘‘The Fantasticks.”” A well-worn Off Broadway
musical. Little Theatre of Charlotte. 501 Queens Road. Details‘
333-3777.

Through October 24: ‘‘Anything Goes.’’ Cole Porter’s musica] for all
those who missed it at Davidson, Spring 1975. Now presented by the
Pienville Dinner Theater. N.C. Highway 51, Pineville, N.C. Dinner at
6:45-8 pm. Curtain at 8:30 pm. Details: 542-3481, 9 am to 11 pm, daily.
COMING SOON!

October 28: ‘‘The College Widow.’’ Presented by the Davidson College
Drama Department. Student Opening October 28.

“Equus.’’ Broadway Touring Company. To Greensboro and Charlotte.
Details forthcoming.

FILMS:
October 15-17: ‘‘Casablanca.’’ The 1942 Bogart/Bergman classic.

October 22-24: ‘‘The Clowns.” Fellini’s 1971 tribute to a dying art.

Both films can be seen at the Huis Clos’ Cinema, The Entertainment
Place, Spirit Square, 110 East Seventh Street, Charlotte. Tickets are
$1.25. Shows at 7 pm and 9 pm Friday and Saturday and 7 Pm on

October 8, 1976

|

pe = a =i
Diack stud

By TOM ENGLE
Staff Writer |

Ideally, the question of what it’s
like to be black at Davidson ought to
be no less absurd than the question of
what it’s like to be white at Davisdon.
Unfortunately for most concerned,
this is true only insofar as there is
little less difficulty involved in ex-
tracting a unified black view on what
is called the black experience at
Davidson than in arriving at an
uncontestted white appraisal of what
is fondly termed the Davidson Exper-

jence.

In-talks with roughly one third of
Davidson’s black students (no super-
human feat considering their ranks
number but 25) such a range of
opinions surfaced that generalizations
hazarded herein are offered only with
qualification.

‘Some blacks, undaunted by their
extreme minority status, are blissful-
ly content at Davidson. Others, if
they haven't transferred, are unreser-
vedly bitter and, though eager for
widespread changes, accept them
with the same hopes they pin to a
decrease in tuition. Most blacks have
views which fall between these ex-
tremes; they’re quietly dissatisfied,
but since they too aren’t willing to
turn blue working for needed impro-
vements, try to make the best of Dav-
idson while they do their time.

Sweeping and digging

Happily, the source of most black
students’ displeasure is not overt
discrimination; rather, their irritation
generally stems from two necessarily
interrelated conditions. First and not
surprisingly, the College’s negligible
numerical representation of blacks in

|a variety of roles— save perhaps those

involving sweeping and digging—in-
censes many black students. Second,
since few foresee an oversoon resolu-
tion to this fundamental issue, David-
son’s blacks are faced with adapting
to an environment of which most find
it hard to feel a welcome part.

Blacks currently comprise two per-
cent of the Davidson student body.
This figure reflects the eight fewer
blacks attending the college this year
as compared to last. The faculty has
one black member. In view of these
paltry figures, it is hardly incompre-
hensible that black students should
often be lamentably aware of their
minority status.

Black face

Darlene Cunningham comments
that, ‘‘it’s hard to forget you’re in
the minority when you have to search
for another black face.’’ Black Stu-
dent Coalition President Pat Hudson
adds, ‘‘We obviously need more black
students, more black professors,
Afro-American Studies courses, and
more black administrators. Why just
look for a black professor—let’s look
for a black Vice President of Academ-
ic Affairs. The whole College would
benefit from the increased number of
integrated friendships. With some
strength in numbers, the BSC could
more readily realize its educational
and service obiectives. But most
importantly, if there were more black
students the blacks already here
would be happier because they would
have more friends with common
interests.”

At least on administration official
sees the potentially beneficial aspects

|of an increased black enrollment.

Dean of Students Wil] Terry is ‘‘sorry
we have eight fewer blacks this year

i %

py

Backsliding ,

Satterwhite feels that an enlarged
applicant pool can only improve the
two percent figure. Although he
doesn’t like quotas, Satterwhite feels
that ‘‘an increase in black enrollment
from their present two percent toa
ratio reflective of their proportional
status in the Southeast Region, seven
to eight percent, would be beneficial.’

Feeling that their insignificant
numbers “‘make us look like tokens,’’
Marvin Lively concurs with Satter-
white’s wishes for more applicants.
“If the Admissions Office. wants to
and is determined to it can enroll more
qualified blacks. If they recruit, they
will apply.”
because a strong contingency means
the Davidson experience for blacks is
certainly a less lonely and much
happier experience.’” A more notice-
able black representation in the
student body would, Terry feels,
“provide a greater diversity for the
College, a greater security for black
students, and a greater reaching out
on their part to non-black students,
Such an increase might result, in some
negative reactions from students and
alumni, but that’s no reason not to do
i

Recruiting

If so many agree on the benefits to
be reaped from an increased enroll-
ment of blacks and that the possibly
undesirable effects of such a move
should not constitute an obstacle, one

only wonders why blacks still com-

prise but two percent of the student
body. Indeed, not only is progress
somewhat dilatory, but the eight per
decrease from last year to this 1s
considered by many blacks serious
back sliding on the part of an
insouciant Admissions Department.
Marian Perkins feels that ‘‘an
affirmative action or atleast a totally
color-blind recruiting policy is need-
ed. The situation is stagnating;
Davidson is simply not doing enough
to recruit qualified blacks. Leonard
Satterwhite is a good recruiter, but he
needs help. We need more than one
black in the Admissions Office, more
nationwide representation. Davidson
needs to establish itself in black

_circles as it has in white circles. We -

definitely need an overview of recruit-
ing policies.”’

Admissions Office Recruiting
Counselor Leonard Satterwhite sheds
some light on those policies and on
the difficulties involved in increasing
black inrollment. Satterwhite, whose
primary responsibility is the recruit-
ment of black students; claims that
‘Davidson College is aware of minor-
ity students and has made a commit-
ment in terms of admissions and
financial aid toward the enrollment of
more blacks. Any prospective student
looks at the whole Davidson view.
The problem is in finding black

ents strig

ale to

students who will benefit from the
specific Davidson experience.”

Among Satterwhite’s efforts, his
“top priority is increasing the pool of
black applicants.” He‘is also working
to @ncourage more blacks to visit the
College, publicizing Davidson’s name
among high school counselors, -and
personally visiting every black appli-
cant from the Carolinas and Georgia.
Yet Satterwhite points out that these
measures are the responsibilities of
his job and do not technically
constitute the said institutional
‘‘commitment”’ except insofar as .
these efforts have been allowed by the
powers that be.

Despite his oblique delineation of
Davidson’s so-called commitment,
Satterwhite’s concentration on aug-
menting the number of black appli-
cants does reach the core of the
problem. That this course of action is
the most potentially progressive is
evidenced by some Admissions Office
statistics. The averages of the. past
five years reveal that of the blacks _
who applied (a less-than-whopping 35
per year) slightly more than half were
accepted. Of those accepted. slightly
less than half. actually enrolled. This
latter approximation compares with
one of 60-65 percent for all accepted
students who enrolled.

Competing

As promising as recuriters’ efforts
and some students hopes seem,
another more immediate and viciously
circular problem is reflected in the low
proportion of accepted blacks who
enroll. Follow-up recruitment of these
accepted applicants is active. Terry.
and Satterwhite concur that David-
son is competing with the likes of
Harvard, Princeton, and Duke for the
favor of these eminently qualified
students. The problem seems reduc-
ible to a circular enigma wherein
Davidson enrolls very few blacks ana
the experience for many of those who
are here isn’t particularly pléasant.
These two conditions seem sufficient
to keep many prospective black
students from applying in the first
place, or if they do apply and are
accepted from deciding on Davidson
from a choice of schools where their
stay might be a more congenial one.
Thus an unhappy situation seems to
be the primary cause of its own

perpetuation.
To say that the black experience at

Davidson is something less than a
bundle of joy goes far deeper than
anyone’s understandable disaffection
with such shriveled displays as Kappa
Alpha’s seemingly unhinged Old

South Day or with anemic attendance
of last year’s Black Week, Indeed,

despite this reporter's obviously in-
herent limitations, he feels justified in
offering as both a symptom and a
cause of black malaise'at Davidson an
