—4

the davidsonian

October 22, 1976

“

n wrestling match to
set up board, students

Should be winners

The Student Media Board as it is called for in the Statement
of Student Rights and Responsibilities was passed into effect
last week by an overwhelming vote of approval from students
and trustees. For some members of studént media this was
cause for great alarm. Visions of wholesale destruction to the
freedoms of expression student editors. hold dear were seen in”
graphic detail. Fright approaching panic gripped those who
felt they had the most to lose by accepting a board designed to
govern student pyblications. In situations where two or more
Student editors came together exotic hypotheticals were
exchanged based on what the Media Board might do. There
seemed precious little terra firma for student editors to cling
to, The Media Board, a huge and undefined body whose
function could only be described as governmental, loomed
over those not used to restraints of any kind.

The creation of the Media Board calls attention to the
relationship of student editors to the Board of Trustees. The
trustees, as the governing body of Davidson College, are
responsible for the publications of which the college may be
considered publisher in a court of law. It is necessary then for
the college to have some method by which the various
sections of the Davidson student media can be made more
completely accountable to the college community. We do not
argue with this. However? the point must be made and
understood that at Davidson, the student editors are not
selected or appointed by the publisher (the college). They are
volunteers selected by election from the student body.

Although the publications these editors work with are
reflections on the entire college, the student editors are
responsible to the electorate that places them in their
positions. This means that student editors have a
responsibility to their fellow students. If a media board is to be
effective in its role as'a body which augments the
responsibilities of student publications it cannot hinder the
direct relation between the student body and student
publications.

Publications must never become responsible to the Media
Board, this would be appellation to a false authority. The
authority that supports and should direct student publications
is the student body. Publications without ultimate
responsibility to students cease to be student publications.
We hope that in the coming weeks as the.Media Board is more
Clearly defined, those planning it will recognize the importance
of maintaining a direct relationship with the student body. As
the board begins to function it must give precedence to
decisions and plans that are responsive to the student body
before decisions designed to be responsive to the college
administration or to the “image” that the college wishes to
maintain in Charlotte. The Media Board must direct its
attentions toward the student body. The time to insure that
this situation will be fact when the Media Board begins to
function is now while the board is being set up.

oOo

tne daudsonan

Matthew COVINGtON «.. 00 sa. spc acai Editor
hk hc ics | Sek LN Business Manager
Re Go vias Wis 6 ca a 6 eek de Photography Editor
De EMRIA hy onic sido 6 FR Re RT PR Production Manager
MUMMIES, fc decir ce coches sess cst News Editor
PMIMMNNOINTDL Wokiiihk ssc ee he tke es rie Editorial Page Editor
Bruce Holladay & Amanda Hall............... Sports Editors
OPM 1G vicky cheeses scence Features Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins .......... Asst. News Editors
COMM iy sors. sesh e aigle ius 0-6 5.5945 Advertising Manager
PAIR oo, y ventas saga w bccnicacren Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly-subscription rate: $6.00.

-

vio
Presickent?

Ford’s brains rattled?

By ANDREW MacDONALD
Staff Writer

Did Ford really play once too often
without a helmet or, rather, would
Dole make the big time as a standup
comic? If one were to accept the
attitude of the present Republican
campaign, these should be the two
major questions posed by Mr. Carter
in his bid for the Presidency.

The present Republican administ-
ration has been strong in its attack on
Mr. Carter but weak on its defense of
its own policies and actions: What is

Mr. Ford’s record? He has managed ~

to stay in politics for 26 years and
never once been considered as a
Presidential or Vice-Presidential can-
didate. And how did he get to his
present office? Because he was the one
man, mediocre enough to be accept-
able to Congress after Watergate and
the abuse of the power of the
Presidency by a strong, if misguided,
leader.

One must seriously question Mr.
Ford’s ability to be a leader of our
country. He has vetoed more bills
than any other president in history
and when several are overridden, at
times with only a handful of Con-
gressmen supporting the veto, the
question arises as to who is Mr. Ford
gine to help. Does Mr. Ford
actually appreciate the plight of one
people and institutions?

Our government needs to deal with
the problems of inflation, unemploy-
ment, defense, education, health care,
and the environment. But a simple
redistribution of Federal funds will
not solve these problems, no matter
how hard Mr. Ford tries to convince
us of it. If we decide to cut funding in
one area we must ensure that the
remaining money allocated is used
most effectively. The problems will
not go. away just because we don’t
want to spend any money trying to
solve them.

Americans today are faced with a
choice. And that is between the

leadership of Jimmy Carter or the

noted lack of it of Gerald Ford. In the
past Watergate period many of us,
whatever our political persuasion,
have rallied behind the idea that a

strong president is a threat to our
constitutional rights, that abuse of
power is inherent to strong character
in a president.

Weve also embraced the idea that
stability in government is more
important than a critical appraisal of
government itself, its goals and
means of achieving them, and its
results. The problems of Viet Nam,
Watergate, the oil embargo, and the
present recession need to be faced
and dealt with, not shelved behind
promises of stability and tax cuts.

If any man has a chance to lead this
country on a path of critical self-
analysis, it is Jimmy Carter. He owes
nothing to anyone in government
today, he owes nothing to the
National Democratic Party machine,
he owes only the people of the U.S. for
his rise to prominence. Mr. Carter
stands for reform of government to
achieve greater efficiency and effect-
iveness. Mr. Carter stands for in-
creased responsiveness in government
at a time of high unemployment and
high inflation. Mr. Carter proposes a
Federal energy policy at a time when
we are the only major economic power
without one and the world’s largest
energy consumer.

And how does Mr. Ford stand on
these issues? He says it is impossible

‘to reform the Federal bureaucracy,

that we should expect inefficiency in

the use of our tax dollar. He does not
recommend reform of our welfare
system, rather that we should do
away with it altogether. The results of
Republican economics is apparent. As
for the future, there is no mention of
energy planning.

Mr. Carter recognizes that we do
have problems and that we must face
them. Mr. Ford tells us to hide our
head in the sand with his promises of
stability. Organized change toward a
well-defined goal is needed and this is
what Mr. Carter is advocating. To fail
to elect Jimmy:\Carter and accept
another four years of Gerald Ford is
not only a shame, it is an indictment
of the American people and their
unwillingness to face the problems at
hand.
