April 30, 1976

‘EMPTY CHAIRS in an empty Union wait to be
used. The utitity of the entire building is often
questioned.

Choice for coach
narrows to six

The two-month long search for a women’s coach is
nearing an end, according to Assistant Coach Chip Stone.
“‘We’ve narrowed it down to five or six top candidates,”
Stone said. He went on to mention that the field had
originally included some 70-odd applicants for the
position.

Stone stated that the athletic department had been
interested in someone to take over the women’s basketball
and field hockey programs. The post was filled part-time
this year by Mrs. Philip Janaro, wife of the Assistant
Football Coach. ;

The push for obtaining a women’s coach was largely the
effort of an obscure SGA Senate committee on athletics,
headed up by junior Kevin McConnell. In December of
1975, when the committee was formed, it was felt that the
College was not fulfilling its commitment to coeducation,
particularly in the area of women’s athletics.

Among other things like inadequate equipment and
difficulties in scheduling, there was an undercurrent of
general dissatisfaction on the girls’ teams at not having a .
professional, full-time women’s coach to handle the
situation.

“We felt that the College could have been doing much
more on this than it was at that time,’’ commented Joanne
Hull, a member of the Senate Athletics Committee.

In January, the Committee asked for Senate action on
the matter, and the Senate promptly passed a resolution
supporting their request for the hiring of a women’s coach.
The College Administration was petitioned directly on
this, along with Director of Athletics Thom Cartmill, who
gave his full encouragement to the proposal, citing the
need for a women’s coach as a ‘‘top priority’’.

Stone then sent out job notices to over sixty schools,
and also published the announcement at a recent athletics
convention. Aided by Pat Drake, Stone assimilated the
material that came in, and the two of them were
commissioned by Cartmill to select the top applicants.

There was a request made at this point by SGA
Chancellor Ed Rees, a former member of the Senate
Athletics Committee, that the girls’ teams be allowed to
interview and evaluate the candidates.

““T felt it would be beneficial to all concerned for such an
evaluation to be submitted to Chip and Pat, for them to
consider in making a final decision,” Rees stated.

Cartmill gave his tentative approval of the idea,
assuring Rees of the “‘mutual input’ that would go into
the final selection. However, Drake and Stone vetoed the
plan, on the grounds that students had not the experience
nor qualifications for making such decisions. Also, Stone
commented, applicants must be considered confidential,
and would thus be unavailable for student evaluation.

As a solution to the dilemma, an alternative _
arrangement was agreed upon. The candidates, if they so
choose, will meet with members from both the basketball °
and field hockey teams. A formal interview situation
would not be included, but team members would relay
their impressions and opinions to Dr. Stone and Miss
Drake, for them to take into account in choosing the
women’s coach.

‘This is fine with me,’’ Rees said in reaction to the
alternate plan. “I see nothing sanctified about having
students participate in the decision-making process, but
neither do I feel that student input is to be discounted
completely.”

“We really have a fine bunch of applicants to choose
from,”’ Stone commented, “‘and I hope we’ll have a final
choice made within the next. two weeks or so,”’ he said.

[Continued from page 1]

Last year, the soard of Trustees
ordered the Administration to award
every faculty member at least a $600
salary boost.

“Of course, some faculty members
got more than this on the basis of
merit. Ten or fifteen got over twice
the $600 amount.

‘‘This year, no one was given an
automatic increase.

. Under last year’s system, junior
faculty members tended to receive
larger percentage increases than do
their seniors; however, under this
year’s procedures, the senior faculty

Outside perspectives—

The Sewanee Purple, student newspaper at the
University of the South, reports that Fugitive poet,
essayist, and literary critic Allen Tate is moving from
Sewanee, Tennessee, to Nashville for health reasons. Tate
suffers from emphysema and must move in order to be|
close to a lung s His latest book is Memoirs and
Opinions: 1926-1974.

A news release from Brigham Young University
describes the school as ‘‘a campus of 25,000 predominantly
white students”’.

The head librarian at Virginia Military Institute has
been arrested along with his wife. Both are charged with
stealing books from the institute’s library. Virginia police
said that they found a large number of volumes at the
couple’s house.

The librarian had earlier announced his plans to
terminate his work with the library after this year and to
open a rare book store. He almost made it.

re
_ Trustees order $600
‘raise for whole faculty

members are apt to come “‘out
ahead”’--six percent of a full profes-
sor’s salary is larger than six percent
of an instructor’s salary.

Thus, it is quite likely that a senior
faculty member who is rated as a
‘“‘subnormal’”’ teacher may receive a
larger total dollar raise than an
instructor rated as an ‘‘excellent’’
teacher.

‘Once, in the early 1960’s, I
remember that every faculty member
was awarded a $200 raise--and only
that.

“Also, in the early and mid-1950’s,
we had a non-merit raise procedure.

“Within each salary bracket (full
professor, associate professor, assis-
tant professor and instructor), profes-
sors were awarded increases of $200
every other year.

“When a professor got to the top
of that salary bracket, he got no more
raises unless he was promoted.

Johnston favors a procedure which
recognizes and rewards fine scholar-

‘ship, outstanding teaching, and com-

munity service.

“By not rewarding on the basis of
merit, you tend to destroy motivation
and ambition. People may not be
motivated solely by money, but
surely that (money) is part of it.

“Although eliminating merit would
make my job much easier--especially
in light of HEW (U.S. Department of
Health, Education and Welfare)
guidelines, I think it’s important to
maintain the concept of merit.”

lar will do.

Regardiess of balance.

posit.

you this summer.

D

DON’T DESERT YOUR
_ PIEDMONT BANK
CHECKING ACCOUNT

» Leave your account open
during the summer—A dol- —

w When you have no activity,
there is no charge—

» Save time on your retum in \
September—Activate your
account simply with a de-

e Your remaining personal-
ized checks will be good—

No need to buy new ones.
2 Carry your Piedmont Bank
Master Charge Card with

= Apply now if you don't heave

’ PIEDMONT BANK -

AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER F.D.1.C.

