In line for a raise
Policy favors senior professors

_ MONEY starts up top and is. slow to filter down.

By ANDREW LAMAS
Staff Writer
The system for awarding salary
increases to faculty members on the
basis of merit has varied over the past
. two decades.

“Currently, the AVP (Vice-Presi-
dent for Academic Affairs) writes to
each department chairman asking
him for recommendations of each of
the members of his department.

“Then I and the (College) President
get together and make the final
decision on each individual faculty
member as concerns promotion and
salary increases.

“While we are unable to promote or
give large raises to everyone that each,
department chairmen favorably re-
commends, no one has been promoted
who has not received such a recom-
mendation from his chairman,’’ said
Johnston.

In addition to the recommendation
of chairmen of the departments, the
AVP considers each faculty members
merits in these three general areas:
1) teaching, 2)scholarship, and

@seommunity service.-

“T want to make clear though that
you don’t and can’t expect everybody
(every professor) to excel in each of
these areas.

‘‘That’s what makes this job of
evaluation so difficult,” commented
Johnston.

Johnston defines scholarship as
engaging in research activities,
authorizing publications and gene-
rally “keeping up’’ in one’s field.

“One can’t, over the long run, be a
good teacher without being a good
scholar; yet, there are some really
good teachers who do not publish
regularly.

“Finally, I define community ser-
vice as working on faculty commit-
tees, and such things as serving on
the Town Council, helping out with
the local Boy Scout troop, providing
leadership in the Church.

“I make my decisions in consulta-
tion with students both formally (like
through the former SIR forms) and
informally, and other faculty mem-
bers, especially those who have been
here for ten or more years.

While Johnston believes it’s impe-
rative to consider such factors when
evaluating faculty members for
raises, he admits that ‘‘raises now are
really an attempt to keep faculty
members up with the cost of living
increase--and there’s not even enough
money to meet this need.

‘While some decisions are made on
the basis of merit concerning the three
criteria I mentioned (above), we can’t
do this as much as we’d like because
of budget constraints.”

This year each faculty member was
awarded an increase of approximately
six percent of his total salary.

‘‘When you figure that it costs
about $40,000 to give all of the
college’s employees (including ndfi-
faculty employees) a one percent

[see TRUSTEES, page 3]

“I’m interested in knowing if the

chaiman rates each man’s or woman’s
performance as exceptional, normal,
or subnormal,”’ remarked the Acting
Vice-President for Academic Affairs
Frontis Johnston.

.On the basis of these reeommenda-
tions the AVP constructs an “initial

2 UAV NOS TWENTY: SIX

— tne davidsonian —

Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036

el 30, 1976

list’”’ asking the faculty members.-

TEAR

Process for hiring explained
College selects faculty for keeps

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

Retirements and College expansion are bringing
five new professors to Davidson College in the fall of
1976.

Dr. George Abernathy, professor in and chairman
of the Philosophy Department for thirty years, and
Dr. Chalmers Davidson, professor in the History
Department for forty years, are retiring at the end of
the 1975-1976 school year.

In addition to these replacements, the Classics,
French and Spanish departments are each adding
one new member.to their staff.

Speaking on the general hiring process for faculty
members that goes on at Davidson, College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. stated that
“because the College is approaching its faculty limit,
it is very important to add people who, on the basis
of all that-is known at the time, promise to bring real
distinction to the faculty.’’ The faculty limit is
projected at 100, while the student body limit tf
projected at 1,300.

Ultimate decision with Spencer

‘Davidson has a general philosophy (when
considering faculty appointments),”’ said Spencer.
“In making initial appointments, we appoint those
we would like to keep, as opposed to labeling certain
lower-level positions as ‘turn-over’ positions in the
way that other colleges and universities do.”

According to Spencer, the Dean of Faculty,
Frontis Johnston, has the ‘‘basic responsibility” for
the hiring of faculty members, which “he may then
delegate—and often does—to the department chair-
man.”

Thedepartment chairman, in turn, develops a list

of candidates. This list is the result of advertisement
in professional journals and ‘‘contact with people in
universities we know to:be good in that field, ed
commented Spencer.

Candidates interested in the position being offered
submit dossiers to the chairman of the department.
Each dossier, one to two pages in length, comprises
the candidates’ ‘‘basic statistics’’, according to
Spencer. This curriculum vita states the candidate’s
academic history at the graduate, and often

undergraduate, level(s), and his/her educational
background (where degrees were earned, what

. fellowships have been won, which honors have-been

earned, and the like).

In addition, the cand\date’s personal history (age,
place of birth, marital status, number of children,
etc.) is condensed in the record.

Also. included in the dossier are letters of
recommendation. These letters are of two types. The

' first is a group of letters from the candidate’s

university placement office— including rating sheets
and personal evaluations by the candidate’s profes-
sors. The second is a letter from the applicant
him/herself, stating his/her interests and special-
ties. ;

In conjunction with the Dean of Faculty, the
department chairman then screens down the
dossiers received, “‘trying to find out just as much as
is possible about that candidate which would affect
his/her performance as a faculty member, ” stated
Spencer.

Three of four of the most promising applicants are
selected as the result of this screening process to be
brought to the College on interviews. The College
President, Vice President, the department chairman
and other members of the department, and possibly

department majors, are involved in the interviewing
of the applicant.

On the basis of all dossiers received and personal
interviews held, the department chairman submits
his/her final selection to the College President.
Ultimately, it is the President, responsible to the
College Trustees, who decides which of the
candidates will be chosen to fill the faculty opening.

Commenting on these final selections, Dr, Spencer
said that the religious ‘tlause in the Trustee
By-Laws, which states that the President is directed
to seek Christian men and women for the faculty, is

“‘a factor, but not the controlling factor. Weare
looking for the best we can get.”

George Abernathy, the retiring professor in the

DAVIDSON
COLLEGE
looks for
potential

facult
with

permanence
in mind.

The professors
the College

Renate hire are
#93 expected to stay.

philosophy department, stated that as a result of
advertising in the publication of the American
Philosophical Association, Jobs and Philosophy,
and letters to departments in graduate schools, 247
applications for the teaching post were submitted to
the department.

The credentials of these candidates were read
“very. carefully,” said Abernathy, and on the basis
of these applications, eleven candidates were

[see DEPARTMENTS, page 6]
