4 the davidsonian

\ April-9, 1976

Potential importance

A potentially important thing happened this week. Davidson
students assembled on President Spencer’s lawn and
presented him with petitions of protest regarding the academic
calendar for 1976-77. The fact that over 150 students came with
petitions signed by 800 more students means that it is not just
Bo Baskin or the SGA Senate that protests the academic
calendar, but a large portion of the student body. When
President Spencer gives this petition to the Faculty Executive
Committee the potential importance of this week might be
realized.

The Faculty Executive Committee has voted overwhelmingly.
in the past to maintain the academic calendar as it stands. The
only people protesting it had been a few members of the SGA
Senate. The Faculty Executive Committee was right to hold its
ground and not be swayed in opinion by a few. Now, however,
over half of the student body has registered its protest and the
faculty should reconsider its earlier decision. The issue of the
academic calendar has proven itself to be an important one
‘and steps should now be taken to deal fairly and openly with
the issue.

We call for the Faculty Executive Committee.to change the
calendar. Beginning school earlier in the year, shortening the
Thanksgiving break, and using the days collected by these
changes to add the wanted study and travel days seem to be
logical steps to take in dealing with the newly but thankfully
legitimized issue.

Black Week

Black Week was a success. Equidistant from the times it has
gone unnoticed and the times it has seemed to be a “blacks
only” affair, Black Week this year helped to unify the college.
The audiences at each of the various perfomances were small
but well integrated with people from all parts of the campus.
Despite the diversity of those in attendance, the programs
seemed to be a success with everyone.

Much of the success must be attributed to the fine work of
the publicity group. People came to see and enjoy the
happenings because they knew about them in advance and
could plan to be there. However, the ultimate success was
brought about because people were at the events not as black:
or white but as an audience.

The old invitation to “try it, you'll like it,” this time given to

- the college community as a whole by the black students,
worked this week. It could work every week. Hopefully Black
Week will start a precedent.

The whole community has been enjoying shows
programmed by the black community. It would be nice and
now perhaps reasonable to assume that the whole communtiy,
including the black students, would enjoy shows programmed
by the regular programming body, the Union Board.

Wanted: Student interested

in helping to compile information for Pre-Law
Handbook. All work would be done at Davidson.
Two weeks of work. 150.00 pay. If interested

contact Dr. Avinger, Chambers 220 by April 16

the davidsonian

Matthew GOVINgton. . so... oases oh Editor
CHUGKIRGDNON: -20 66sec es be bee cee Managing Editor
MICINIORIOINY epee es es ce sve sy cs coe Business Manager
LOOIVONMING 6), beset cs ccc te sce ees Photography Editor
STU CT PLCC 7 eee Production Manager
TBOVCO. 66k i ce hs eh Editorial Page Editor
erg cee as es bo os bigc sy ee eres News Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall ............... Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ................ Features Editors
DAVIOMNEOON 63. sees ies Kee a ees Advertising Manager
MODIMIRCNOUN § 63 Fee eae aa Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C» 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

~ |

<1. ————s

MRS. NICHOLLS DELARES CAMPAIGN LITERATURE
A FIRE HAZACD

Rampaging vandals
cost themselves

By BILL REED
Staff Writer

My outrage has finally surfaced. I
feel a need to express this outrage in
the only forum left on campus which
will reaeh a sufficient number of my
peers.

During my four years honor and
freedom have been key words in the
Davidson vocabulary. They’ve been
used by administrators, faculty and
students alike. The word honor
represents that characteristic of per-
sonal integrity which permits, as well
as, endows us with the responsibiltiy
of our freedom. Because we are
“‘honorable”’ we as students have been
given certain privileges. and, if you
will, freedoms. Nevertheless, we as a
community have abused one of our
freedoms and then we wonder at the
Administration’s hesitance to deal
with us in a responsible manner.

This year, for the first time the
physical plant has found it necessary
to keep a separate record and file for
acts of vandalism. Literally hundreds
of man hours and dollars have been
spent in replacing windows which
have been systematically knocked out
by ‘‘mischievous’’, inconsiderate,
vandals. Entire window frames, glass
and wood together, have been comp-
letely and maliciously: destroyed. I
desire to know where the trained
questioning mind of the Davidson
student is hiding. Where is our sense
of moral decency, of right and wrong?
Do we care?

Push a truck in the creek on
Patterson Court. Watch in delight as
it rolls down the hill. Do you give a
damn? It is not your property. Why
not use your own cars? Don’t live
vicariously. Destroy your own pro-
perty.

Break urinals, commodes and

waterfountains off the walls, $400.00
damage. For what reasons? Where are
the thrills? The purpose defeats me.
Bust out windshields of college
owned pick-up trucks with objects
thrown from dormitory windows.
Break your own windshields. My

God, what is happening here? Fire
extinguishers are vandalized. It costs
$2000.00 a year just to refill them.
Fire alarms are ripped off walls.
Ceiling tiles, wall clocks, doors, exit
lights, locks, furniture; the list goes
on.

A total estimate of over $4000.00 is
considered ‘‘charitable”’ by the physi-
cal plant. People are in want through-
out the world and we squander this
type of money not out of ignorance
but out of malicious intent. People are
starving and we destroy. The logic of
the last statement may be faulty but
it its by far stronger than the logic.
which condones wanton destruction of
private property.

The administration has neither the
time or money, to prevent these acts.
It would take a police force the size of
Charlotte’s to stop it all. The respon-
sibility for these crimes rests upon the
entire student body. (They are indeed
crimes.) We bear the brunt both in
loss of freedom and funds from the
actions of what I hope to be a small
minority. We are after all their peers.
Surely the entire campus can’t be
blind to these acts. Our honor has
been put into question. As witnesses
to this destruction if we sit idle we
sanction and approve it.

Judgements must be made, lines
drawn, and questions asked. These
judgements are dependent upon indi-
vidual values. The lines must be clear.
The questions must be pointed and
revealing. Take time to look beyond
each destructive act to its ultimate
end. In one sense it is your property
that is being abused.

I read that we here at Davidson are
some of the best and brightest. We
come from the top 50 percent of our
high school class.. To have this type
destruction at Davidson is fright-
ening. I end my stay here at Davidson
in a‘few weeks and am saddened and
distraught. I can only attempt to
challenge you, my peers, to const-
ructive and responsible action. Please
stop the destruction.
