April 2, 1976

the davidsonian

7

AReview

Bergman celebrates intimate opera

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

“The Magic Flute’’ was Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart’s last opera, composed in 1791, the year of
his death. The libretto was written by Mozart’s
friend and fellow freemason, Emanuel Schikaneder.
Over the years it has become one of the most widely
discussed —and denigrated —of the major opera
libretti. It has been criticized by some for what they
see as its highly self-conscious freemasonry pole-
mics, anid by others who comment on its inherent
silliness.

All of this makes it especially interesting that
Ingmar Bergman would choose to make a film out of
this opera. One might think that if a film director
wanted to pay tribute to opera (and that is definitely
what Bergman is doing here) he would choose one
that would enable him to show the exalted

pageantry and grandeur ‘that’ we usually associate
with the art.

But the side of opera which Bergman celebrates in
his film of ‘‘The Magic Flute’’ is the intimate
side—the human, rather than the superhuman. He
won't allow us to keep our distance from the art:
direct close-ups bring us literally face-to-face with
the singers, and backstage shots establish the
setting not as an ancient Egypt (the scene of the
opera) but rather, as an opera house. In this, the
film is similar to Olivier’s version of Henry V,
though the performance and the stage in the
Bergman film remain closely related in our minds.

In Schikaneder’s libretto, an Egyptian prince is
saved from a dragon by the powers of the Queen of

the Night. In return for this, the Queen asks the

prince, Tamino, to rescue her daughter, the princess
Pamina, from the evil Sarastro. The Queen gives
Tamino a locket with Pamina’s picture in it, and the
prince, of course, immediately falls in love with the
princess. So off he goes to liberate her, accompanied
by a ‘‘faithful retainer’ character named Papageno.

However, when the two find Sarastro, they
change sides: Sarastro, it seems, is a priest of Isis
and Osiris (thus, the head freemason, some critics
would say) and it is not he, but the Queen of the
Night who is evil. He consents to the marriage of
Tamino and Pamina, but (fraternities, take note)
only after Tamino has gone through several
initiation rites. Tamino completes these success-
fully, he and his princess are married, and the Queen
of the Night disappears into the wings somewhere.

Bergman makes no attempts to cover up the
absurdities of the libretto. The singers impishly
point out the various ‘‘author’s message” aphorisms
in the music by holding in front of them large cards
with the verses on them. The rites of initiation
scenes, while impressive cinematically, are not as
much majestic as they are weird.

However, to give credit where credit is due,
Schikaneder at least meant it to be a comic opera.
For this, the conventions of the opera house, such as
a wild dragon costume in the opening scene, serve
Bergman nicely. But this is more than just an

Staff Writer

Bazbo goes to schoo

operatic performance on film; Bergman opens it up
spatially as it could never be on stage. In the last
scene of the first act, Tamino can take his search
into the temple, instead of having his exchange with
the priest outside.

The atmosphere contributes strongly to the sense
of Pamina’s sorrow after she thinks she has been
rejected by Tamino: we see her in a desolate world of
snow. This contrasts strongly with the comic
Papageno’s scene of depression: when he contem-
plates hanging himself, he would-be gallows is an
obviously fake tree.

The performances by the cast are all good:
Bergman has chosen to use professional singers,
instead of professional actors with others’ voices
dubbed in. Mozart’s melodies are much easier to
listen to than to sing, and they are rendered well
here. Especially notable is Birgit Nordin as the
Queen of the Night who seems to handle quite well
the treacherous high-register ornamentations in her
major arias. The opera is sung in Swedish, with
English subtitles: this allows the American viewer
to both listen to the opera as pure magic, and to
follow the dialogue as little or as much as he wants.

The libretto, in this case is the least important
part of the production: Bergman creates his mood
through the music and the photography, the latter
supervised by his veteran cinematographer Sven
Nykvist. The result is an unusual but sensitive
rendering of an opera which employs the special
techniques of the film art without sacrificing the
intimacy of Mozart.

covers of their pulpy sagas.

Surfer remains alone:
Deathlock still bickers

By JASON NOBLE
Staff Writer

Editor’s note: here we continue our
. review of the best of the comics world.
Silver Surfer: Norrin Radd, the
Silver Surfer is Moses, Jesus Christ,
Buddha, Mohammed, Krishna, and
out of print. The Silver Surfer was a
milestone and his demise, though
long ago, still leaves a bitter hurt
inside. No other character touched so
many different aspects of human
experience.

Here was a man who, to save his
planet from destruction, willingly
gave himself to slavery and spent the
rest of his days as a seeker of food for
Galactus (whose apetite was satiated
only by absorbing the energy of
planets, leaving them rather
desolate).

Forfeiting his love (Shalla Bal) and
his freedom, the Silver Surfer soared
through space searching for uninhab-

ited planets for his master to dine |

upon. However at the most crucial
point, Galactus’ hunger was unstop-
pable and his unfortunate meal was
Earth.

MARVEL COMICS heroes peer from the

obliterate this planet, the Surfer §
defied him and with the help of the ¢
Watcher. and the Fantastic Four,
Galactus was halted.

However, as punishment for his
treason the Surfer was banished from
his master’s side to remain impri-

a cosmic barrier attuned to the
Surfer).

From then on the Surfer has
remained alone. Hated and despised
by humans (who fail to realize that he
had saved them) and tortured by the
memory of his lost love, the Surfer
wanders through life depressed. and
lonely and thouroughly uncompre-
hending the evil ways of mankind.

He is sickened by pollution,
dumbstruck by violence, and stands
in unvelieving wonder at the cruelty
of his foster beings.

Time and again the Surfer has tried
to befriend the humans but is always
met with misunderstanding and fear.
His powers are nearly unmatched by
any other character (only Thor is
more powerful) yet at times he has let
himself be humiliated, imprisonned
and continually tormented by man-

,
4
4
r
soned on Earth (this accomplished by
q
q
(
«

ed ws
VPPPERPEOPREEPEPEPA ELE EPP PELE LE IEPRLOOBORIOPPRLARR”&IPOPrRIPALPRL RPOPRIROEIOR LOOPS

he waved good-bye to his family. The
excitement kept breaking on him as
waves on the shore. Space Cadet! The
words added a weight to his name,
but he was happy to bear that burden.
He was to be a member of the most
respected institution in the universe,
the Space Academy, that small elite
- school on the wooded shores of
man-made Ion lake. ;
Bazbo opened his eyes after wha
seemed only a few minutes. He looked
around, through the blue glass of the
ion bus. Then he saw it, the
headquarters of the Federation:
Chason Building. But his elation was
to be short lived for he had already
fallen under the eyes of the fearsome
and treacherous Trussed Eees!

1) ———-——
town drunk.

2) On Bewitched, for what agency did
Darren work? :
3) Name the canine secret agent of
Get Smart.

4) When Col. Hogan sent a message
to allied forces, what code name did
‘he use?

5) What two long-time T.V. veterans
were The Good Guys?

was the Mayberry

QPQOPBEPEGREOPOSE IG LIT

kind without trying to fight back at
all.

It is no surprise that his worst’

enemy is Mephisto, who alone realizes
the purity of the Surfer’s soul. Well,
mankind performed the cruelest act of
all: it has let the Silver Surfer slide
into obscurity by not patronizing the
book. At present there are only 18
existing issues of Silver Surfer and all
are priceless (though you can still get
them at about 4 bucks apiece in
N.Y.C. if it’s worth it to you).
Deathlock: Deathlock is not actu-
ally that much ofa loner. In reality he
is just blantantly anti-social, besides
being a 500 pound cyborg super
soldier (this series take place around

Bazbo’s hands trembled slightly as :

6) Name Chief Robert
original staff.
7) What was the name of Mr. Ed’s
owner?
8) Which ‘Hollywood’ squares did
Wally Cox and Charlie Weaver invar-
iably inhabit?

neighbor in Love on a Rooftop.
10) What was the name of the
Douglases‘.’ cow?

- JOABOAA ‘19100 7Y4BuU Jeddn - x0D “g

@AQ JedjjOQ ‘uUMoOIg pg "43S °9

Ironside’s

played the inventor

“10UBeTy “OT

“OTT Gry 6
*IOUIOI. FYB JOMOT

“980g INGHAM *L
‘reBueg yw pue ‘preyiyM

"UBUITEPY qiex{ pue Jouue, qog “¢
“SHPOPP[CH “Fy

“Suey ‘gi-y quesy ‘¢.

"OABL FY UUBPOW “Z

Teqdured sO “1

1995 and following). Starting out as a
mercenary, Deathlock has evolved
considerably little if any and this is all
for the good.

The action portions of the book are
pretty basic. What makes Deathlock
enjoyable is his constant bickering
with his computer half. The dialogue
jumps back and forth between these
two, outside the realm of the other
character much like ‘strange inter-
ludes”’ (is that the correct title?).

It presents a continuous battle
between logic and emotions and in
this case the emotion usually wins out
(one point for the humanists). Death-
lock is a fine comic to read when you
got time to kill.
