Stuart fund becomes scholarship

By JIM ENTWISTLE
Staff Writer

A new merit based scholarship has been
announced by Davidson College to begin next year.
The program is financially independent of the college
and has been developed and supported by the family
and friends of Edward Crosland Stuart, a 1954
Davidson graduate who was lost in a military air
crash in 1956.

In the first year of implementing the Edward
Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program, two $3000
stipends and ten $500 stipends will be awarded on
the basis of Christian character, scholastic achieve-
ment, leadership, ambition and physical vigor. An
interested high school student may not apply for a
Stuart scholarship; rather, he must be nominated by
his principal or headmaster and then successfully
pass through a series of interviews with local
Davidson alumni.

Assistant to the President Peter Clark is
optimistic that the Stuart Scholarships will publicize
Davidson in a fashion similar to the role of the
Morehead Scholarships at Chapel Hill. “Financially,
the Stuarts won't compare to the Moreheads, but we
hope that once talented students discover that they
can receive substantial aid based on merit at
Davidson, they will also discover that they can get
something here that isn’t available at Chapel Hill.’

In the first year of existence, the program will

operate in North Carolina and Florida. Area alumni
chairmen will distribute scholarship information to
local high school principals. The principals nominate
students who are then interviewed on a district level
by alumni. The program directors then select
students from each district who are put through
additional interviews which result in six semi-final-
ists from each district. The semi-finalists will then
be brought on campus for a final series of interviews
in the spring to determine the recipients of the $3000
and $500 stipends. The Stuart Scholars will be
announced on approximately April 1 of each year.

Edward Crosland Stuart demonstrated both
leadership and academic ability while at Davidson,
attributes fostered during his childhood in Baftow,
Florida. His college achievements are imitressive:
membership in Phi Beta Kappa, the ODK leadership
society, the Phi Mu Alpha music society, the YMCA
cabinet, the Sigma Upsilon literary society, the
Sigma Delta Phi Spanish society and the student
government Court of Control.

He left school his junior year to attend the World
Christian Youth Conference in Trevancore, India, as
a representative of the Associate Reformed Presby-
terian Church and to study at the American
University in Beirut.

Stuart returned his senior year to be president of
the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and to graduate
Cum Laude. After graduation from Davidson, he

@went to Harvard on a Danforth Fellowship, but
before commencing his history studies, Stuart was
called home to join the Navy.

Following Stuart's accidental death, a fund was
set up in his memory by his family and Davidson
classmates. It was not until last year, however, that
steps were taken to transform the fund into the new
merit scholarship program.

The primary motivating force between the
transformation of the fund has been Seddon
‘“Rusty’’ Goode, Stuart's college roommate. Now a
senior vice-president with the Interstate Securities
Corporation in Charlotte and chairman of the fund’s
board of directors, Goode eagerly and fondly recalls
his relationship with Stuart.

‘‘Ed was the sort of a guy who had lots of friends
in all different spectrums. He was as well rounded an
individual as I have ever known.”’

The other members of the board directors, all of
whom were friends of Stuart, are Mrs. D. Grier
Martin, wife of the late college president, Chalmers
Davidson, Charlotte attorney Larry J. Dagenhart,
and Michael G. Myers, the director of continuing
education at Central Piedmont Community College.

After Stuart’s death, Goode stayed in touch with
the Stuart family and watched as the originally
small memorial fund grew. He started to seriously
consider expanding the fund last year and, after
consultation with the Morehead scholarship pro-
gram at Chapel Hill, decided to push a program of
merit scholarships for Davidson College.

Goode comments, ‘After studying the Morehead
program, I decided to try something along those

as sssssanunsnnnsseeeeeseseneeeeee eee SS
Vol. LXVI, No. TEN Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 December 10, 1976

same lines because I liked the merit aspect of it, the
[see SCHOLARSHIP, page 3]

Davidsonian race represents
contest for Keller,

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

Students voting in Tues-
day’s election will be faced
with a choice that has been
unavailable to them in any
other year of this decade. The
editorship of The Davidsonian
is being contested, giving
voters a choice to make be-
tween Juniors David Keller
and Catherine Landis.

Both Landis and Keller now
serve the paper as Executive
Editors, both have had the
experience with news and feat-
ures layout, and both have
worked with The Davidsonian
for the entirety of the past
year. Either Keller or Landis
would be quick, however, to
differentiate between the can-
didates.

Landis looks at the editor-
ship as an ‘“‘exciting chal-
lenge’. ‘‘The paper is going to
have a new face,” she said.

Keller does not plan any
changes in format for The
Davidsonian but believes
strongly in the paper’s respon-
sibility to be both informative
and entertaining for the stu-
dents.

“TI want to publish a profes-
sional-quality paper without
typographical and grammati-
cal errors,” Keller said. ‘I also
want a diverse paper, each
issue having a lot of variety.”’

Landis does not believe that
The Davidsonian has a staff as
such anymore. She describes
the newspaper as being some-
what disjointed and separa
into groups. ;

“T want to give the paper a
real staff again,’’ she said.

‘I’m going to emphasize qual-
ity writing and editing in
meetings in which staff mem-
bers can learn journalism as
well as simply getting assign-
ments.”

Landis comments, ‘‘I’m go-
ing to make it an honor to
write for The. Davidsonian
again..We just won’t accept
anything but the best.”’

Keller hopes to increase his
staff of writers and proofread-

Landis

ers ‘‘to put out a good quality
newspaper. I also hope to have
workshops to train present
and prospective staff members
on good newswriting, layout,
and so on,” he said.

“T also want.to be respon-
sive to student feedback and
to student and faculty opin-
ions,’ Keller added. ‘‘Hope-
fully people will see The Dav-

[see EDITORSHIP, page 12]

DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR MATT-

hew Covington smiles at the pros-
pect of a contested election for his

SUCCeSSOr.

Brown, Young foresee involvement
for student body outside of Senate

By LYMAN COLLINS
Assistant News Editor

This Tuesday students will
elect either Roger Brown or
Thom Young as the next
President of the SGA. A
two-way race between Guy
DiCenzo and Bruce Brown is
shaping up for SGA Vice-
President.

Both Brown and Young
indicated that one of their
main objectives in working
with the SGA would be to
involve students outside the
Senate.

Brown indicated that he
would involve students in
research and study projects to
augment the Senators’ work.

Young sees ideas origina-
ting with students being direc-
ted and studied by students.
“I'd like to see student ideas
bubble up from the bottom,”’
he added.

Brown emphasized that

most of his programs would be

continuations of things he’s
been working on for the past
two years in the Senate.

“T mulled things over in my
mind about ways I could
accomplish things, and I fin-
ally reached the conclusion
that the best way was to be
SGA President,”’ he said.

Professor evaluation and

Young”
student-faculty relations are
two main areas in which
Brown would. like to ‘concen-
trate. :

Brown eventually hopes to

set up a faculty course evalua-
tion handbook. He would like
for the book to have faculty
input as well as student ideas,
and the book would be distri-
buted to administration as
well as to the faculty and to
students.

“This would obviously help
students in choosing their
courses,’’ said Brown, ‘‘but it
could also help professors
evaluate themselves. It could
also be a means for admini-
stration to evaluate the fac-
ulty.”’

Brown also seeks to improve—

faculty-student relations. To
do this.he would like to involve
professors in things such as
freshman orientation and
IMAC sports.

“I think we could do many
small things to get professors
in a position to talk to
students,’’ he continued.

Brown said that there were
two extreme stances in dealing

with the administration that
he wished to avoid: the SGA
implacably opposed to the
administration, or an acquies-
cent SGA readily bending to
administration pressure.

“‘T want to sit down and
explain to Dr. Spencer that I
don’t want.to be his advisory.
I want to work with him

together, but I want to make
it clear to him that if the
Senate and the students are in
favor of programs that the

[see DiCENZO, page 3]

