the davidsonian

November 12, 1976

A

The impending vote by the Educational Policy Committee
concerning Extended Studies is a threat to uninhibited
academics. If Extended Studies are removed from the college
curriculum, the college will be denied the academic freedom it
proports to value. ;

Late in the 1975-76 schoo! year the EPC voted to suggest
that the Extended Studies program be discontinued but the
vote was unofficial; in December the committee will vote
again. If the vote remains negative, Extended Studies may be
eliminated for freshmen and sophomores and each department
will have to find an alternative to the Extended Studies-Com-
prehensive Exam system that is now in effect.

The EPC is not a policy making body, it only refers policy
recommendations to the faculty for a decision. Suggestions in
the past. from the EPC have, however, carried considerable
weight with the faculty committee that will eventually decide
the fate of Extended Studies. If the EPC votes to discontinue
the program, it is likely that the faculty will agree with their
decision. It is also likely that a decision to maintain Extended
Studies would be received with equal agreement. For this

Unrestrained curriculum threatened

Students will have to use their own voices. As much as
students believe they benefit from the expanded curriculum
that Extended Studies provides, that is how much students
stand to lose if the EPC and then the faculty votes to
discontinue the program.

reason it is important that students attempt to express their
interests in maintaining academic freedom through Extended
Studies.

The significance of individual effort should not be
underestimated. Students interested in preserving the seam
Extended Studies program should express their interests to : — a
members of the EPC, especially Academic Vice-President 2. eae ee < Pe Res : )
Frontis Johnston. Johnston has the tie-breaking vote on the Baer Sa es:

EPC, and if our predictions are correct, he will need to vote on | wonder if Mr. Sadler will come and fix these pipes
this issue. The other members are Professor of Mathematics before our living room freezes over

SGA committee fights

Professor of Religion Alexander McKelway, Professor of
History Malcolm Partin, Professor of Political Science Harris
Proctor, Professor of Religion Daniel Rhodes, Peyton
Marshall, and Barbara Wright.

It would also be useful to contact a faculty member. The
faculty has the final vote and an expression of views to them is

an effective way to seek representation in the final decision.

Davidson College needs Extended Studies. At a small
school such as this one, the course offerings are necessarily
limited. Presently the college offers no Africa History, no
Russian History before the 20th century, and no literature of
the American Indian. All scientific research falls under
Extended Studies and without this experience science majors
would be severely disadvantaged in graduate school. Without
Extended Studies, the opportunities for interdisciplinary work
would be limited to the Honors College and the limited number
of. students accepted for its programs. ~

Davidson College needs the Extended Studies program, but
no organization is willing to exert itself to save it. The
Davidsonian printed one article at the beginning of this schoo!
year and the SGA Senate has decided to remain passive after
mimeographing one letter to students and printing a
perfunctory comment in The Davidsonian. There is no other
organization through which the students have a voice.

~ theqawasonan

WMaEnMOW UOVINGLON... os ..sc svc eces sheets werk Editor
Sry ee iiss kee 6 be hk aa re Business Manager

CM ey vc aie s Ce eho oe cae Photography Editor
MIA go fie y ee atice sy vas oe a oe Production Manager
BV Barnett. ase alain cases ene ian, dobea. «i Editorial Page-Editor
Cathy Landis & Dave Keller...............;Executive Editors
Bruce Holladay & Amanda Hall...... Fi) ae Sports Editors
Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan .......... Asst. News Editors
DEVE HGUMEE ssh fe. che cae Advertising Manager
PACS DMPO os pee cel oa che ee M Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davic- .

son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,-N.C.
28036. Address ali correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly:subscription rate: $6.00.

So

crowding problems

om By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

One of the biggest problems facing
Davidson College this year, as many
students are well aware, is how to
solve the overcrowding of Patterson
Court eating houses which will face
the rising sophomore class. So far this
year, the administration has been idle
in finding a solution to this plague.
Apparently the administration does
not realize the severity of this matter,
for it will affect not only the future
sophomores, but all other upperclass-
men will feel the crunch as well.
Davidson students should. not des-
pair, however, for the SGA is hard at
work to relieve this major problem.
Below is an up-to-date account of all
that has been done on the subject thi
year by the SGA. :

The best immediate solution seems

to be to open Rusk House next year as 5.

a Patterson Court eating house. This
project would be open primarily to
interested freshmen, but dissatisfied
upperclassmen are welcome. So far,
freshman Robert Payne of the Julia
Johnson House has been collecting
the names of all interested: students.

The opening of Rusk House ‘invol-
ves far more than gathering a list of
prospective members. College sources
revealed. several weeks ago that
approximately $65,000 is needed to
set the project in motion. The SGA
learned that part of this large sum
would goto furniture, but‘it would
primarily: be used to equip -the
kitchen. It seems that. only the
dishwashing machine is functional.
New cooking facilitiés would cost
more than those in the Patterson
Court houses, not only due to the rate
of iriflation but because of m y new

stringent health codes that have been
legislated, calling for ultra-modern
facilities. Se far, the college is reluc-
tant to provide the funds. The SGA
sees no choice.

In a meeeting on November 9 with
the Overcrowding Committee of the
SGA, President Spencer confessed
that in over-enrolling the present
freshman class, the Patterson Court
situation was overlooked. He revealed
that the college is considering the
possibility of closing the present ARA
houses on the Court, and opening a
new freshman cafeteria to take their
places. He admitted, though, that
Davidson is caught in a financial bind
which would prevent any new facili-
ties of this type in the near future.
The cafeteria in the basement. of
Chambers has been mentioned as a
possibility.

In hindsight, the President stated
that next year’s freshman class will
not be as large as the class of 1980.
Nor will Davidson’s enrollment exceed
1300 students until more building
funds are available, which seems to be
a long way off.

In dealing with overcrowding in
dormitories, President Spencer noted
that no new:dorm will be built. until
the money is available...As for
students who are forced off campus,
the President said. that‘‘we’’ will
cross that bridge when ‘‘we’’ get to it.
The SGA feels. that ‘“‘we’’ are already
there, but it realizes ‘that unavailable
funds prevent any major alleviation of

this problem at the present time. [In
' light of the. urgency: of the situation,

though, I sincerely hope. that: all
parties involved are working as hard
as possible té raise the necessary
funds. -
