November 12, 1976

Thanksgiving.

THE COMING of autumn means the coming of

Come and Try Your Luck!
Annual Turkey Shoot

Wednesday, November 17,
10am-4:00pm.
(Basement of Belk Dorm)
Turkeys for highest
scorer in each of 4 categories:
Female student Male student

Male Faculty and staff
Female faculty and staff

"Robert Trawick

Rifle Range

YMCA solicits clothes;
investigates alcoholism

By CATHY LANDIS
Executive Editor

One of the YMCA’s purposes is
community involvement. Toward
that end, the Davidson Y has ini-
tiated two new programs striking
deep into some of the problems which
face the Davidson community.

One program seeks to clothe the

Davidson ‘heedy in clothes discarded
by college students instead of those
old and out-of-style.

Dana English, an active member of
the Y, appeals to Davidson students.
‘‘Most of you have a closetful of
well-made, carefully chosen, beauti-
fully tailored clothes, yet all we see
you wearing on campus are variations
on the theme of jeans and shirt (in
winter and summer).’’

English feels ‘‘this is a rather
wasteful state of affairs.’’ She sug-
gests that students donate the clothes
they do not wear and-do not plan to
wear in the near future to people who
need them.

The Y plans to make these clothes
available to the needy. English sug-

* gests, ‘‘if you bring back a load of new
outfits after Christmas, go through

your closet and weed out those >

‘borderline’ clothes that have been
hanging there awhile: Any size or
shape of wearable clothing will be

appreciated.”’

John McArthur, president of the Y
discusses the second program aimed
toward bettering the Davidson com-
munity. The Y plans to direct its
attention to the problem of alcohol-
ism.

During a meeting that a group of
students had with ten townspeople
last spring, it was discovered that

neither housing, poverty, nor discri-

mination was the main problem of the
Davidson residents ‘‘across the
tracks’’. They found alcoholism at the
roots of their problems.

McArthur comments, ‘‘with the
realization that alcohol consumption
is just as much a part of our lives’as it
is a part of theirs, the Y has set up a
workshop to educate ourselves, and to
stimulate our ideas for attacking the
problem within the Davidson com-
munity.”

The Workshop is scheduled for
Thursday, December 2, at 7 to 10 pm
and Saturday, December 4, at 9 am to
5 pm. :

McArthur says ‘‘the Workshop will
be directed by a professional from

Charlotte who is’ well-trained in the (@

art of becoming an alcoholic.”’

The Y will hold these workshops for
free. They are open to everyone.
Anyone interested in further details is
directed to contact Bonnie Wright for
details.

THE COMING of Thanksgiving means the _—-Robert Trawick

leaving of students.

White brings 900 room
old style, mellow voice

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

Josh White, Jr., combining the old style of performance as a solo guitarist and
a straight-backed chair with a rich, mellow voice and intermingled comedy, will
perform in the 900 Room Thursday and Friday nights, November 10-11.

Show times are at 9:30 and 11:15 each night, and no admission will be charged.

The son of THE Josh White, Sr., famed musician of days gone by, White has
been performing either alone or with his father since age four. He has appeared in
major night clubs and in concert throughout the United States, England, and the
Scandinavian countries.

Besides entertaining as a musician, he has acted in Broadway plays, and in the
movie The Freedom Train, writing the music for the latter. He also has appeared
on television numerous times, both in the U.S. and abroad.

Described as “brilliant” by Byron Belt, Critic-at-Large for ‘Rolling Stone’,
White is ‘‘The Total Entertainer’, combining songs tastefully arranged from
every area of musical endeavor, with uproarious comedy material delivered with
charming spontaneity. ! te

Certainly talented, White performs both self-accompanied and acapella—un-
intentionally or not. Paula P. Caracappa, reviewer for ‘‘Good Timed’’, writes of a
time he sang to the tempo of the audience handclapping while changing a broken
guitar string during a performance.

Josh White, Jr., presented by the Intimate Performers Committee of the
College Union, is a rare treat not to be missed.

JOSHV HITE, JR:, described as “The Total
Entertainer”, combines talent with innovation.
