thedavidsonian

March 12, 1976

4
The mystery of the
Stalled handbook

Content in the belief that he can smooth the feelings of the
college secretaries and make them lie back in abashment,
Director of Personnel Robert Stephenson has continued to
stall in his efforts to come up with an employment handbook
for the hourly-paid staff.

This handbook is something the secretaries have been
wanting for around a year now. Organizing a group called the
Chambermaids, these secretaries have even offered to work
after hours with no pay to write a handbook. All they request
is astatement of employee rights pertaining to hiring and
firing, salary increases and promotions. They have to this
point been effectively denied this request by Stephenson's
office, which has yet to complete work on any aspect of the
document. First using the excuse that he was unaware of the
need, then the excuse that he needed help to compile the
handbook, Stephenson has allowed all of the deadlines for
completion of the handbook to come and go.

Alerted to the problem last spring, Stephenson did no work
in planning the booklet that summer. Qn September 26, he
claimed that he was unable to begin the work because he had
no help. At this time he claimed that he was in the process of
hiring someone specifically to help work on the document.
College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said at this time that
he had given permission to hire such a person. Stephenson
said that work would begin on November 24 and be completed
on March 8. On January 13, Stephenson went back on his
statement of September 26 and said that he had just been
given permission to hire a helper, blatantly contradicting his
earlier promise. As it turns out, all of the caviling was
apparently a cover-up. A number of secretaries said they
would help with the booklet during off hours. Today is March
12, four days after Stephenson’s own deadline. As the cliche
goes, he has run out of excuses. Why has nothing been done?
Apparently, Stephenson and the administration do not want
the secretaries and other hourly-paid employees to have a
statement of rights. They want to continue to operate ona
system of arbitrary reward, arbitrary promotion, and arbitrary
firing. Davidson secretaries are apparently not going to get
their handbook and with it their rights. Their reason is simple.
As long as the secretaries continue to lie down for Stephenson
and the College, there is no benefit for Stephenson
and the College in bringing out a booklet of rights. We call for
the secretaries to reach an agreement to take affirmative action
at the meeting on Tuesday. A mild protest, such as not
coming to work one day is not out of the question. It seems
that nothing the secretaries do will top the antics of the
Personnel Office that have already been perpetrated.

the davidsonian

Matthew Covington, is..5..sssisc. bi esteem uienes ose Editor
CHUGKINGENNON,. ..c:iccrsecvsscectel sess even Managing Editor
MOTT SION G5 coe. cs ees ae ieeniaeres age Business Manager
PMONAIG BOVCG......c0isscss%eccerccoree Editorial Page Editor
UT ACSA [TE To] ee Ore" cu Pane ra Advertising Manager

Meng weekly during the school year by students of David-
on College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

pa Address all corespondence to The Davidsonian, Box

218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

\ LA ddd hh hdd hdd SOLLLE SASL AATF WA Of. Abhhd hdd hhddd CAAA sss sts hshhdsithbsshhttthisseste.

ey

WILSISLTTSSTTL, (Lit SLPEL?. SEEMED AAEODEDS A

Coeducation Evaluation

A subcommittee of the student senate is formulating

a questionaire on coeducation. This will be circulated —
next week. Student supportis essential so that a high
percentage of these forms canbe filled outand
returned for evaluation

SSSSISASSSASSAASL SSA E Ahh dd bb bbb hddddbhddhdhdddbddtddddddddddddide LAM Addai shhhihihhddr

ABovt 'YouR

+ | a eve

Now , THEN,

WEE-WEE...

Compromized Bill of Rights
ignores essential freedoms

By MARK WILENSKY
Staff Writer

On February 17, former SGA
President John Munce presented
Draft Twelve of the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities
to students, faculty, staff and trust-
ees. Many students have forgotten
the history of the Statement.

Two years ago, Blain Butner and
his senate drafted a SGA Constitu-
tion along with a Statement of
Student Rights. No new ground was
broken in the annals of student
liberties. Most schools had had such
statements for years; many had
stronger ones.

The Statement was a new one for
Davidson. Davidson College has
always insisted tht such a Statement
was unnecessary. The College pleaded
that since it was benevolent and wise,
student rights were insured.

As was seen in two acts of
censorship in 1974 and numerous
administrative decisions, that in-
surance was not full coverage.

Thus, Butner would not be ap-
peased. The documents passed a
student referendum, was accepted for
information by the faculty but re-
jected by the trustees. The problem
was basically the media section of the
Statement of Student Rights.

The Statement provided for full
freedom of expression and student
press; first ammendment freedoms
guaranteed to all Americans. Reject-
ed by Davidson College.

As is their practice, the trustees
called for a joint committee of
students, faculty and trustee. They
appointed Walter Lingle Chairman.
Lingle promptly closed all meetings,
issued a gag order and decreed all
votes would be unanimous.

These provisions kept the commit-
tee from moving with any speed; in
fact they are still meeting.

The basic issue is simple. The
College feels all student publications
reflect on the College’s reputation.
Thus they cannot agree to a ‘‘free’’
press: lest penises and the word ,
“Fuck” taint Davidson’s ‘image with”
the public. Somehow the image of
repression of free speech is not one
they’re afraid of.

John Munce, Bo Baskin, Peyton
Marshall and Blain Butner in various
combinations have bargained for the

students. They have bargained: in
good faith, because they believe the
committee and its charge has merit.
The College has yet to bargain.
Through legal counsel they have
clouded the issue, claiming title as
publisher, and insisting, through the
same counsel, that there is no legal
way to avoid liability as publisher
short of sending student publications
off campus.

There is the question as to who is
the publisher. One school of thought
insists the College is, because they
collect the funds. The other says that
within the same collection system the
College can remove itself as publisher.
College Counsel supports the first
position. He’s paid a lot of money to
do so. The students refuse to fight the
interpretation.

Regardless of form, this College is
not about to give away its right to
censor publications. Despite their
switch to legalese and the ‘‘publisher
theory,”’ we clearly recallksthat when
Sam Spencer and Will Terry censored
“Quips and Cranks’’ they explained
that at the bottom line: ‘‘the College
can never allow the publication of
material that is harmful to its image.”’

Where does this leave the students?

Bo Baskin is pledged to agreement
at all costs. He cannot afford to be a
Butner or Munce. Munce and Butner
graduated with no accomplishments.
Baskin wants an agreement.

He will agree in some form sooner
or later. Since the College has shown
no signs of changing or modifying its
position, the only agreement Baskin
will get is one compromising student
first amendment right. In some
form, the College will retain the

ultimate right to censor publications.

Students have only one option. No
one ever gave the SGA the charge to
negotiate the Statement passed in
1974's referendum. Thus.a new. agree-
ment will have to go before the
students for a vote. If rejected, the

~ original statement could be pro-

claimed (as some activists have
pleaded for-from the start) under the
theory that-the Statement affirms
Constitiition-guaranteed. rights: For
“sometime ‘things « would roll along
smoothly. Then someone will want to
print penises or ‘‘fuck.’’ lf at that
time the SGA President is a tool of
the students rather than one bent on
appeasement at all costs, Sudge
McMillan or his successor will make a
binding decision.
