{

} co

December 17, 1976

ee

Campaign propag

By BILL BARNETT
Editorial Page Editor

This week's student elections were.

a big success. Student interest in the
elections was extremely high, and the
large voter turnout was only one of
the indications of student partici-
pation. Several offices which have in
the past often been uncontested, such
“as the editorship of the Davidsonian,
had extremely close races between
well-qualified candidates. However.
the elections pointed out one terrible
flaw in our election system—the
College was inundated with paper,

Almost every candidate for every
office put up posters and handed out
mimeographed propaganda. I know
this to be true because I ran for an
office. and it was a difficult task to
even find any blank wall space. Even
the toilet stalls in the dormitory
bathrooms were packed with all sizes
of campaign literature.

This vast campaign over-kill is
regrettable in many ways. First, there
is a paper shortage of sorts in the
United States today. and any conser-
vationist would have been appalled at
Davidson's blatant disregard of this

Circus leaves town

e
ctions at Davidson resemble a Circus: posters,

pand monium, and personalities. And students hardly take
/them more seriously than a circus. Certainly, this week’s
‘ elections were exciting. But the fervor of close and

roversial campaigns stems from the personalities, not the

issues. heard more students arguing over whose signs were
\ the best than we have discussions about the lack of an
\ academic vice president or the peril facing Extended Studies.
‘But because name recognition determines most elections at
Davidson, the candidates must comply.

The enthusiasm of the candidates proves only we are good
politicians; we now have to prove to.be good leaders. We
challenge ourselves and the rest of the winners of this week’s
election to channel their celebrations into action. We
challenge the student body to turn their excitement into

service concern.

Stop Sadler’s sloth

The disgruntled criticisms from the student-tenants of
Wilson Sadler bring to light a problem that has been too long

ignored.

Sadler is not guilty of any gross negligence, but his sloth in
answering complaints and making repairs is well-known by a “a

number of off-campus students.

Why does Sadler persist in ignoring students’ grievances?
Perhaps he realizes that a Davidson student is too busy to
worry over much about a broken window, adoor that won’t
open, a furnace that absorbs heating oil, etc. After the initial
complaint, the student is not likely to occupy his afternoons
chasing down his landlord, and before long, will learn to live

with the inconvenience. -

Perhaps Sadler knows that the College is short on housing.
And because he runs the biggest house rental operation in
town, he knows that any student who wants to live ina
non-college house off-campus has little alternative other than
rent from him. Not a bad set-up, is it?

The students who rent from Sadler should join together and
demand that he be more responsive to their grievances.

To Wilson Sadler, we recommend that he make a New Year’s
resolution to act the part of aconscientious landlord and stop

using Davidson students unfairly -

Matthew Covington..........

Pe

Sa

SEER IONE cic tus cnt Fo alk Gas VC ee Business Manager
WO B ie yicaityisicgiath sce ate « panca wc ann Photography Editor
CUE fsduy . < taracbtiate e+ 00 boo in, cea Production Manager
Bill:Barnett wceici. ose. ei Beitonel Rage Editor

Cathy Landis & Dave Keller................ Executive Editors
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall ............... Sports Editors
Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan .......... Asst. News Editors
DEVGNTHGGh racic es a Hee gery deo weet Advertising Manager
FROUIROMGIG ei oe a ie is gins 6 cu ating Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Sai aes

thedavidsonian:

anda litters campus

semi-crisis. Sure, the paper shortage
is at nowhere near critical levels, but
if there isn't, you can't blame
Davidson for not trying to make one.

Not only do these campaigns waste
paper, but they result in an eyesore
for the whole campus. Unread hand-
bills ama strewn all over the place, and
then someone has to go clean them
up. And you can bet that the people
who threw this trash on the grounds
are not the ones who will pick it up
Instead, it will be the janitors and
groundskeepers who already have
enough to do.

The dilemna here is one very
familiar to student candidates of all
ages. If youcan't use posters, how
can you publicize your name and
credentials? The answer is to allow a
limited use of posters, and to en-
courage other, less costly means of
campaigning.

One set of guidelines to limit
posters would be as follows: first,
distinguish between posters and
handbills. A poster would be any

_ “advertisement’’ of any material ab-

ove 1’ by 142’. A handbill would be

pe
/

*

ST
pen,

anything of a smaller size than 1° by
Bei :

Second, any candidate for elective
office could put up or distribute one
(1) poster for every fifty (50) people in
his constituency, and he could put up
or distribute-one_handbill for every
two (2) students in his constituency.

If these regulations were adopted,
candidates would have to use other
methods to campaign. Perhaps an
‘open end” could be set up for all of
the offices available. WDAV offered
to air a short commercial free for any
candidate who wanted one, but there
were few takers this election, If there
were poster regulations, a lot more
people would take advantage of that
offer next time.

Poster regulations would place a
premium on student ingenuity and
creativity. Also, candidates would
have to make more personal contact
with the voters. The best result,
though, would be that students could
walk into their room without having
to throw away all the mess which had
been left under their doof, while they
were out.

/ You want an

Some

ye

Elections bring new ideas

doubts and fears by looking forward
to a fresh start, injecting new blood
into an already healthy student
government.

Regardless of election outcome and
enthusiasm over the future, it is only

By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

The SGA campaign for the 1977
school year proved to be one of the
most heated in Davidson College's
long history of student government.
Although there are only two conten-
ders for the number one and two
spots, competition for the other
offices almost reached epidemic
proportions, epitomized by the race
for the Hearing Committee in the
Freshman Class- seventeen candi-
dates for three openings.

Campus-wide support for the
Senate Presidency was overwhelm-
ing, leaving the college buildings and
grounds plastered with literally
thousands of posters and toilet
tabloids. Despite anti-Senate
sentiment that had prevailed all fall
term, students cast aside all old

oe: . oo

fair that a few, long overdue
comments be made about the
outgoing Senate. For the first time in
a long time, one can.honestly say that
this Senate has beeri in touch with the
student body, and many dreams have
become a reality. Rusk House will
definitely be open. next fall on
Patterson Court; the Communica-
tions Program has proved extremely
effective; the first successful course
evaluation system has been estab-
lished.. The Baskin Administration
has made many noteworthy accom-
plishments. But, as Bo Baskin noted
at his final meeting Monday night,
the 1976 senate has merely Jaid the
groundwork: for future programs.

ae
