November. 12, 1976

Breer the davidsonian...
Students bemoan

insufficient privacy

q
a

By CAROLINE CROMARTIE
Staff Writer

The opportunities for privacy at
Davidson seem unlimited when con-
sidering Davidson’s size, but it
affords its students little privacy at
all.

When asking students when and
where they find their privacy, they
pause. One student said, “I guess I
find privacy in the library when I
study, or I guess I find privacy when
I’m alone in my room.’’ Notice he
says, ‘I guess’. There is some
uncertainty whether privacy exists or
not. ;

A lot of privacy is found by simply
withdrawing to one’s room for 4 little
solitude and maintaining it by locking
the door. Is there anywhere else that
affords a little contemplative soli-
tude?

Some students mentioned the lib-
rary, specifically, a carrel. But there
is still the feeling that others are
present, and there is always the
potentiality of an intrusion.

One student said he used to roam
through Chambers and find an empty

or near-empty classroom just to sit’

and think. He stopped after the
college decided to keep only a few
rooms unlocked.

He also quit roaming through
Chambers because of the weird looks
he got by others ‘wandering around’.

Some students find their privacy by
running in the stadium late at night.
One girl mentioned that she once sat
up in the stands in order to be alone.
She watched the people run in their
attempt to be alone.

She felt it was ironic that the
runners were being watched in their
endeavor for privacy.

The connection with privacy is the
question of anonymity. One student
felt that the lack of privacy at
Davidson was caused by its smallness
and the fact that it was possible to
know just about everyone.

Even in her efforts to get away she
felt that somehow someone always
knew about it. She felt that Davidson
allowed for too:much human contact
with a subsequent bombardment of
privacy and a feeling of futility in ever
finding it.

Several students find their privacy
in the adjoining chapel of DCPC.
People respect their desire to be alone
by the mere connotation of being at
the chapel.

Some find it by running on. the
cross country course or by even
walking it. One student found it a
haven for privacy at night since he
knew no one would be there except

“an occasional pervert’’.

“The last fortress of the individual”
is the bathroom. As one student said,
“if they don’t respect your privacy
there, they’re sick.”

Many stated that they withdrew to
the john just to get iway. Especially
in a restroom that offers an area such
as a lounge. Otherwise, ‘‘the stall will
do.”’

In an attempt to get away one
student decided to get in his car and
drive but he did not know where to
go. ‘‘So I just sat in my car, and
thought, ‘Damn, there’s no place to
go around here. I guess just sitting in
my car is the nearest thing to getting
away from this place.’’’

Many students feel just as limited

off-campus. Some ride their bikes to -

find privacy. One student said that
she had ridden her bike everywhere
and “‘it’s all the same, no matter
where you go.”

Most of the buildings on campus
are frequently traversed so if one is
seeking true solitude, he has to look
hard. One student referred to looking
for a ‘‘hiding place’; but when one
hides, we assume there is a threat. If
students are threatened enough to
hide, the lack of privacy could bea
major anxiety at Davidson.

“Steve Lewis

WHO’s watching whom? Students feel Davidson’s size

prohipite's® metimes needed anonym ity.

sien aii alana

ae hop <<

Ret billy Say Abie Py stor Rez

“Robert Trawick
ONE STUDENT finds privacy in his room...wth the TV?

Pit
mone £ EF
IOS CS” xu TWE REAL WORLO

ART:

Through November 14; The 18th annual Springs Art Show at the
Lancaster Armory, 803 Nichols Road, Lancaster, S.C. 9 am to 5 pm
weekdays, and 1 to 6 pm Saturdays and Sundays. Details: (803)
547-2901.

Through November 19: Collection of letters written by Andrew Jackson,
U.S. Grant, Woodrow Wilson, William Penn and other bits of
Americana. Pfeiffer College Library, Misenheimer, N.C. Details:
463-7343.

Through November 30: Pen and ink drawings by Sandy Bradley,
porcelain pottery by Ginny Phillips. Imprints, 112 South Torrence
Street, Charlotte. Details: 377-1147.

Watercolors, acrylics and oils by Corene Blanton Anthony at the
Cleveland County Memorial Library, Shelby, N.C. Details: 487-9069.

Through January 9; (are you ready for this one?) 75 duck decoys are on
display at the Charlotte Museum of History, 3500 Shamrock Road,
Charlotte. Details: 568-1774.

MUSIC: ,

November 17: The North Carolina Symphony Orchestra will come to
Ovens Auditorium next Wednesday at 8:15 pm as the guests of the
Charlotte Symphony. The Charlotte Symphony Chamber Orchestra will
open the concert with Siegfried Idyll by Richard Wagner. Details and
tickets: 332-6136.

November 20: Tim Weisberg in concert at-Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte.
Appearing with Weisberg will be Arthur and Hurley. 8:15 pm. Details:
372-3600.

November 22: John Denver with the Starland Vocal Band. 8:00 pm.
Tickets start-at-$5, Charlotte Coliseum. Details: 376-3600.

December 9: Beverly Sills Tuesday at 8:00 pm at the Columbia Township
Auditorium, Taylor Street, Columbia, South Carolina. Details: (803(
771-6303 or write Columbia Music Festival Association, 1527 Senate
Street, Columbia, 29201.

THEATRE:

November 12 and 13: ‘‘An Italian Straw Hat” presented by the Plaza
Dinner Theatre at the Plaza Presbyterian Church, The Plaza, Charlotte.
Dinner is at 7 pm with the show at 8:15 pm. Adults: $5. Details:
376-8594.

“West Side Story” presented by the Camden Community Theatre, Pine
Tree Hill School Cafetorium, Lakeshore Drive, Camden, S.C. Details:
(803) 432-0473.

“Dark of the Moon’’ presented by the Cherryville Little Theatre, 8 pm at
the West School Auditorium, Academy Street, Cherryville, N.C.
Details: 435-6767.

November 13: “Inherit the Wind”’ as play based on the Scopes ‘“‘monkey
trial’’ at- Carlisle Hall Theatre, Wofford College, Spartanburg, S.C.
Details: (803) 585-4821, ext. 338.

November 13 and 18-20; “‘The Lion in Winter’ presented by the Hickory
Community Theatre, Hickory City Auditorium, Clty Hall, Hickory,
N.C; Details: 328-1741, ext. 300.
