February 20, 1976

4 the davidsonian

Filled-out Form

The faculty has approved a recommendation from the
Professional Affairs Committee to abolish the current form of
course evaluation. The recommendation is of particular
interest to students because it limits the information available
to them about courses and professors.

If implemented the recommendation will abolish the use of
the SIR forms. A new evaluation form will be found and it will
be distributed to students after exam periods. There will be no
pressure on students to complete these forms. Students will
‘be requested to sign the forms and unsigned forms will not be
evaluated. The information will not be made available to
students. Information gained from the questionnaires will be
revealed only to the Vice President of Academic Affairs, the
professor involved, his department chairman, and the
President of the College. The recommendation also suggests
that the Vice President of Academic Affairs not place “undue
emphasis upon the requests of the questionnaire in the overall
evaluation of faculty members.”

The idea of abolishing an outdated and unsuccessful
method of faculty and course evaluation is a good one. We
applaud the noble ideals of the Professional Affairs
Committee. There are a number of problems inherent in the
recommendations, however, because they are so simple.

It is of primary importance that both students and faculty
know how the forms are to be evaluated. Not only must we
discover what is meant by “undue emphasis” but we must also
find out what effects the questionnaires will have on the
selection of professors, evaluation of professors, and
curriculum improvements. There is no reason to fill out a form
that is going to clutter someone’s desk.

If the evaluations are going to be signed by the student, it
must be made clear exactly how the forms are going to be
circulated and stored. If it is decided that only four people are
to see the completed form, then the student needs a guarantee
that no one else will see it.

The rights of students who fill out forms must_be protected.
In the case of an administrative hearing or civil suit where the
identity of the student is revealed, the student needs to be
guaranteed that his comments on the form are defensible as
long as he is expressing an opinion grounded in fact.

The college needs to consider the possibility of including a
section of questions on the questionnare that are of service to
students in forming a student course evaluation handbook.

The college does not want the responsibility of conducting student

course evaluations because these evaluations are sometimes
derogatory or defaming. It is important that students have a
system of course evaluation and it is foolish to have two
systems operating at once. A responsible system of evaluation
must be worked out to mutual agreement of faculty and
students. It is possible that an addition to the regular
questionnaire could be written by students and the results of
this section alone could be made public as a student course
evaluation booklet.

Finally it is important that the new Vice President of
Academic Affairs be introduced to and questioned on the
evaluation process. It is his office that will be handling the
forms and the person who fills this office should be expected
to make his own contributions to the system. It is our hope
tnat whatever contributions or changes are made to the
original recommendation, students’ interests and needs will
be regarded as foremost in importance.

the davidsonian

Matthew Covington... ....6. 2. 60s dees ts ee ee Editor .
CHUCK KERMON 5. ss cig gar ag ee Managing Editor
WEINSION 3. 0. 655. a ee ee Business Manager
Richardsoyce........... #2. =e Editorial Page Editor
DAVIGMIIGGGh 66:5 6es hee Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$6.00.

Copies of Draft 12 of the
Statement of Student Rights
and Responsibilities are
available to students at the
library desk and the front
counter of the union.

Draft 12 is similar to Draft
9, which was rejected by the
Governance Committee last
November, with . two
exceptions. The Section on
Expression and Assembly and

the section on Student Media
have been rewritten.
Pending Governance
Committee approval, Draft 12
will be presented at the
Februury 26 Trustee meeting
to be docketed for discussion
at the May Trustce meeting.
Discussions will be held and
comments solicited from the
college community about
Draft 12 during Spring term.

A

By BOB WESTMORELAND
Associate Editor

Tony Snow’s commentary of last
week on the 1955-1975 nexus scored
ten points on anybody’s cuteness
scale. And it’s a good thing, for his
analogy is worthless. Either Snow
was trying to score rhetorical points
at the expense of reason, or he is

hopelessly a child of the 60’s. Prob-

ably it’s a little of both.

The thoroughly worn out Ford-Eis-
enhower analogy is predictably in-
voked in tracing the parallels between
out decade and the 50’s. It is a point
that escapes me. True, neither man
was the type to be toasted by those
who prefer wit and charm to efficacy
in the White House. But, seeing as
how Ford was appointed, I fail to see
how the conclusion can be drawn that
we have come full circle back to the
days of Annette Funicello. I’ve heard
that 85 percent of women who have
breast cancer have husbands who
smoke, but establishing a causal
relation between these two facts is

“quite another matter.

A thoroughly nostalgic tone per-
vades the article. It is obvious that
Snow longs for those wonderful days
of confrontation. It is a futile hope,
for the turbulence of the sixties was
made possible by a single issue behind
which people could rally.

Protesting a war can be quite
successful, for a war involves a single,
conscious policy decision against
which forces can be massed. Now, it is
quite a different thing to protest
inflation, or racism, or injustice.

Inflation will not budge in the face
of angry confrontation. Where does
one march on racism? And, ‘‘Stop
Injustice” now makes a lousy protest
button. The fact is that the problems
that face us must be combatted with
reason, with patience, without polari-
zation. Divisiveness can only thwart
any movement toward a slution to
these problems.

Why, then, the nostalgia? I feel a
twinge of it myself whenever I dust
off my Woodstock album or see care-
fully edited films of anti- Vietnam
rallies. I suspect that Snow is moved
to a much greater degree.

Remember those sanitized 6:00
reports on student violence that
invaded our homes nightly when we
were junior high babes? It was easy to
sympathize with those kids who faced
armed National Guards with bou-
quets of flowers. We rarely saw the

Oat WILLIAMS COLLEGE IS RUNNING
$50 .000.000 FuNd-RAISING  PROvECT
WELL, BY GoLLY , WHY SHout

WERE A Good CoLLEGE ~!
SuPPoRT AND WE'LL BE A Good

ae CLLEGE WrtHouT I(T!

y=

ae

b WE? WE
TH FINANCIAL

Wesimoreland requests
-Snow’s depoliticization

darker side of their activity--the
violence, the mindlessness. People
who didn’t know Marx from Marcuse
from Jimi Hendrix. People who
thought you had to be a threat to
society to be a vital member of it.
Obviously civil disobedience has its
place. But what one senses in people
like Snow is the indiscriminate ac-
ceptance of violence as a method of
quick redress. There are those who «
seem to think that the level of one’s

’ political consciousness is directly

proportional to the number of bricks
one throws through draft board
windows.

The fruits of those wonderful days
is in an attitude that might be called
Squeakyism. There is a disturbing
tendency to condone, even accept,
those who refuse to express their
grievances through proper channels.
So. the Chief Executive is nearly
disposed of on the premise that his
continued existence might threaten
the existence of a particular redwood
tree.

fia segment of the community is
impoverished, kidnap someone until
their immediate needs are met; never
mind about long term solutions. And
if equality of opportunity does not
immediately cause equality of result,
lash out in whatever way seems best
in the moment. All balances had
better be righted now or else.

Alexander Bickel, perhaps the most
respected constitutional authority of
our time and a thoroughly un-react-
ionary man, expressed grave concern
over this impulsive, violent response
to social problems. And he laid at
least part of the blame for the doings
of the Nixon gang on the atmosphere
of irrationality that characterized the
60's» ; :

For now I believe that it is good
that students today have pulled in
their horns after the frantic search for
utopia of the last decade. It is
refreshing to see people look to the
resources of the private sector and of
the individual. This new search
recognizes the fact that all answers do
not lie in the political realm. That the -
Rons are falling with less regularity
(by the way, there aren’t too many.
reverent iconoclasts running around,
Tony) is a rather encouraging return
to sanity. So, if you see the somnabu-
lantly nonpareil (top that one!) Mr.
Snow standing wild eyed in front of
Chambers with a Molotov cocktail in :
his hand--invite him down to a party
on the court. You know, depoliticize
him just a bit.
