_ November 5,.1976

Stel Writer
It was 4am, November 3, 1976,
xcted Pre of the

and the newly

Letter to the Editor

Student body lacks power

To the Editor: e

The student. body should be the
seed-bed of the revolution, not the
death-bed of democracy. The SGA
Senate, in its implementation of a
“good habit,”” has endorsed a policy
of representative filtration which
completely ignores the democratic
crises which faces the Davidson
stu
institution at Davidson—its powers
are limited and its vision is short-
sighted. The visitation is doomed to
fail as a result. It is impossible for a
student’s opinion to be voiced and
considered if he is to rely on a senator
who must search him out, include his
recomendations and ideas on a list
containing the views of thirty odd
people, submit all of these ideas to the
senate for discussion, and then report
the results to the individuals concern-
ed.
This is not democracy. It is an
absurd imitation of executive struc-
tures of power; absurd, because any
student organization at Davidson is
the subject of scant attention, and at
times scorn, by the Ruling Class: the
Administration and the Board of
Trustees

The student body of Davidson is
small enough, and its members‘can be
conscious enough, to implement a
policy of democracy, if they can be
aware enough to be done with
ridiculous gestures that make a
mockery of our time here and coura-
geous enough to stand up and
demand the powers which should of
right be ours.

_. I realize that we are faced
with these three problems at David-

today. The senate is a weak.

_of our own desires?

"relief, a smile filled with memories of
the tension of the last several hours.

a! Coren ys
(iil
FAY

mG.

- 1. The individual student is seldom
given a real chance to voice his ideas

in front of his:peers. The student body.
‘should be the student government,

and the student union should house
its members. So, conduct the senate
hearings at the 900 Room at the

Union—a place which should be our

Freedom Hall and our Woodstock —
where as many students as possible
could gather and make decisions on
central issues. Each student should
have the right to vote; and each
senator should have the right to
introduce the issue and the student
who wishes to speak on it.

2. Our Senate is no different. from
the English Parliament immediately
after the signing of the Magna Carta,
as far as power is concerned. Why
don’t we students demand that the
four years which we must spend here
be governed according to the dictates.

hard-fought victory. He was modest
in victory, contratulating his formid-
able opponent. He asked for faith and
support, and he stressed unity. He
spoke of ideals, the same ideals which
propelled him to the Presidency.

The crowd cheered intermittently.
It was the moment we had been
waiting for since 8 pm. The eight-hour

vigil was over for us, the 22-month

vigil was over for him.

On historic Tuesday night and
early Wednesday morning, I couldn’t
help but reflect on the causes and
circumstances of this Carter victory.

Carter won this election because the

people, yes, ordinary people, liked his
ideas for change. The American
people surely won this election. For it
took their support, the blacks, and
blue-collar, lower-middle income peo-
ple, who had nothing more in common
with Jimmy Carter than his desire for
change and compassion. I am proud
to be an American. Our system does
work. The fact we have elected a man
unfamiliar with national politics to be
our leader for the next four years is a
tribute to the power and influence
given to the common man in our
government. The people of America
have spoken. They wanted a change

to which the Others will have to
respond in a balanced forging of
school policy.

There will be those who will
challenge my position. It is unfortun-
ate that I will be answered only in the
pages of the Davidsonian, and not

over a beer in the Union on the SGA

convention nights. If we are worthy of
the trust which is given-to us by our
American heritage, we can step forth
from the piedmont of attainment and
let other students throughout the
nation know that we are progressive,
intelligent, and diligent: defenders of
democracy, that we are concerned
with the problems which plague our
students and citizens, and that we are
willing to fight for the freedom that ‘is
slipping from our grasp.
Jay Coward ’77
Davidson College

and through our system of govern-
ment were able to achieve their goals.
This is the greatness of America: the
freedom and right to elect a govern-
ment pleasing to the people. —

The next four years will have the
potential to be an era of tremendous
progressive social reform. For 22
ated his goal: a fair and equal tax
system, reduced unemployment, re-
duced bureaucracy, a balanced bud-
get, and National Health Insurance.

them, appealed to the people of
America affected by these same
to eliminate. This is the simple, basic
explanation for Carter’s victory: he
went to the people, and they chose
him.
There are now questions as to
President-elect Carter’s ability to
achieve the goals he has set for
himself. I believe President Carter
will attack the social problems he has
recognized with as much determina-
tion, organization, and genius as he
attacked the problem of convincing
America of the validity of his candi-
dacy.

The main themes of Carter’s cam-
paign have been traditional, Demo-
cratic ones. He wants to improve our
nation’s schools, and he has hollered
loud and long about the inequalities of
our present tax structure. He wants
to help the poverty-stricken members
of our society, and expand the role of
government in stabilizing the econ-
omy.

However, Carter has also touched
on some traditional Republican ideas.
He wants to reform the structure of
government to make it more effective.
He wants to cut federal spending, but
he wants to do it without sacrificing
any social programs. He will do this
by seeing that the money is spent
more efficiently. He also wants to cut
down the welfare roles.

For him to succeed in reforming our
nation’s ills he needs our trust and
faith again. For no American politi-
cian today appreciates more the
power of trust placed in one individual
by the people than Jimmy Carter. In
his victory speech Wednesday morn-
ing, he asked for our help, faith and
prayers. Don’t be bitter-that we are
stuck with the next administration for
four years. Let’s respect the choice of
America. Let’s all give President
Carter the faith and trust that he
needs. I am positive we will not be
disappointed.

_Tetmiatraiydodrenn  OOSSIbilities exist

cerns Davidson (and I don’t mean the

student body in the form of the SGA
president), asked its opinion, and its
decision should be accepted as vote
No. 1 in a three-way decision-making
process.

3. The students at Davidson do not
take the initiative concerning impor-
tant matters which concern us as
students and as the new generation of
American citizens. This is due to the
above-mentioned problems: the in-
dividual student feels helpless, and
the body of students is powerless. If
we have the power and if we are
united democratically —not side-step-
ped by representative bureaucaracy —
we can carve out a policy of our own

(Continued from page 4)

student who sees things differently is the odd-ball at
Davidson. If we are to admit students with the chance to make
a difference, then we must provide them with the proper forum
for doing so. This is not to say we need re-structure the
school. It is to harp again on a suggestion prevalent on these
pages. Davidson must discover a method of intellectual
communion outside the classroom. At present the void is
inadequately filled by the Open End program. To become
effective, the Open End must become habitual for students. To
become habitual the Open End must bea regular occurrence,
perhaps a weekly occurrence. Some weeks might include a
program while other weeks could be thrown open to general
discussions on all-subjects. The success of such a forumis. ;

imperative.
