4 theceildionion

April 2, 1976

Slater rumblings warn

of annual eruption

Director of ARA Food Services at Davidson College, Ron
Scott, has suggested that he is unhappy with his business
year. The same thing happened last year. On March 31, 1975,
Ron Scott admitted a revenue deficit for the year of $10,000.
He proposed the closing of Rusk House, an increase in meal
ticket prices, and promised that next year would be different.
This year, Scott shows a profit of only two percent. The parent
company ARA Slater expects Scott to make five percent.
Although this is not as great a problem as the deficit of last
year was, Scott does see it as grounds for more change.

Scott is still concerned about the costs of labor and supplies
for three eating houses. Bailey is not doing well and may see
limited hours next year. A new meal plan may be implemented
that does not allow students to reclaim missed meals. These
were Scott’s problems and solutions last year, too. His
solutions didn’t work. They might not work this time. Like last
year, Scott expects to discuss his plans for next year’s
changes with students and College Business Manager Robert
Currie. There are limits to where Scott’s need to make money
can override his responsibility to provide an adequate food
service. If he oversteps these limits then ARA Slater does not
deserve to be the college food service.

Chancellor's epitaph: !0la/ unresp

“You knew the job

was dangerous when

you took it”

Warren Soule’s resignation from the position of SGA Senate
Chancellor represents a natural attrition. He was a paid
employee of the Senate and had been hired by a different SGA
president than he was working for. In his own words, “It is a
different Senate now than when | took office.” Under the new
president Soule was being asked to be actively supportive of
many of the Senate’s actions. In many cases Soule, who
describes himself as “a moss-backed conservative” did not
want to support the doings of “a liberal Senate”. After making
his complaints known to the SGA President, Soule resigned
rather than fail to fill his office.

The predicament Soule found himself in points up another
requirement of the SGA Chancellor. Although not a senator,
apparently the chancellor must be willing to act in support of
the Senate’s actions. Soule gave his own epitaph after his _...
resignation—“You knew the job was dangerous when you took
it.” Perhaps the person who next takes the job will now be
advised of the elements of that danger.

tne davidsonian

Matthew Covington... 623 ccc pes eccec eves ce cine te Editor
GRO ICENN OD rcs sc cect ccs cesses ees eae Managing Editor
SO ooo aes bck ie 4 olds Kh A sieves Seeks wate Business Manager
EBON VENADIO. os). ccc cee ccs encesnc e's Photography Editor
GSM OOM 7 oc 0. Vi kinrec are voce sete ses Production Manager
Fichard BOYCE .... oc. cbc coeceescccs ce Editorial Page Editor
GTR EN OI ooo oiecis's o bipes cc scice o's Pare poe se cine News Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall ...........---- Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ..............-- Features Editors
Pe LG a | A Rene i nr PORN rere era aac Advertising Manager
PROTO. <3, caiace sscinies ptis bo bce eee Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of
Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

of the Grey College Union.

eligible to compete.

essay.

1976 Vereen Bell Memorial Award For Creative Writing

The Vereen Bell Award this year carries a first prize of
$50.00 and a second prize of $25.00. The judge is Mr.
Robert Bly, who will make the awards and give a reading
of his poetry at eight o’clock on May’ 11th in the 900 Room

Rules of the Competition
1. Any regularly enrolled student of Davidson College is

2. Allentries must be the original work of their respective
entrants and may fall in any recognized category of
creative writing, such as fiction, drama, poetry, or the

3. A student may submit as many entries in as many
different categories as he wishes.

4. All entries must be typed, double spaced, and appear
on one side of the paper only.

5. Name of the writer must be enclosed in an envelope
bearing the title of the entry and attached to it. No name
should appear on the manuscript itself.

6. All entries must reach some member of the Department
of English by Monday, April 19, 1976.

PPS OOOO OOO OOO OO ON NNN Nn me
PPP PLP PD PDD DOP OP ODD OPP ODO DOPOD POD ODODE ODD EEE

Baskin chides SEC’s

By BO BASKIN
SGA Senate President

Dr. George Abernethy fondly re-
lates to his philosophy students what
I call his ‘shoe-pinch analogy.’ With
apologies to Dr. Abernethy, it goes
something like this:

A collegé student is like a man with
a new pair of shoes.

When a man buys a new pair of
shoes: only he can tell where or
whether his shoes pinch. He and no
oné elSe--not even the keenest ob-
servér*-can knowledgeably pinpoint
‘where it hurts.’ Similarly, if a college
policy fails to meet a student’s needs,
only that student can accurately say
what’ fie’ finds unsatisfactory.. How-
ever, neither the man nor the student
is capable of ameliorating the pain of
pinching shoes or unpleasant policy;
such repair jobs remain for the
cobbler and the college faculty and
administration.

Now I don’t quite buy the idea that
only the faculty and administration
are capable of improving policy; I
maintain (if I might be so bold) that
students also have a role to play. But
the purpose of this column is not to
debate whether students are capable
of making decisions. The purpose is
much simpler: right now, my shoes
are pinching and I’m writing to gripe
about it. :

Specifically, my gripes concern the
1976-77 academic calendar. First of
all, according to that calendar, Fall
classes will end on Tuesday, Novem-
ber 16 with exams folowing Wednes-
day, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
In effect, this means NO reading days
before exams.

My second gripe is that after the
Christmas holidays, classes will re-
sume on Monday January 3. In effect,
this means that those students who
cannot get reservations on Sunday
January 2 or who must drive ex-
tremely long distances back to David-
son on hazardous holiday roads will
have to either leave home on or before
New Years Day or miss Monday
classes.

This academic calendar was se-
lected by the Faculty Executive

onsiveness

Committee about two months ago.
Since then, both of these complaints
have been presented to that commit-
tee twice. Both times in the form of
unanimous resolutions from the Stu-
dent Senate; both times by official
student representatives of the SGA.
Both times, the Faculty Executive
Committee refused to alter its pro-
posed calendar.

The most recent refusal came in the
form of a letter from the secretary of
the Executive Committee. The letter
stated that the committee was. “not
insensitive to the needs and desires of
students regarding various features of
the academic calendar,” that indeed
calendar changes have been ‘‘made
during the last eight years (my
emphasis) as a result of student
.desires.”” (For example, ‘‘graduation
in May rather than June, longer
vacatons between terms, four-day
examination periods, self-scheduled
examinations, split Winter term and
reduction or elimination of Saturday
classes”’).

For these changes, I am grateful.
However, that changes have been
made over the past eight years does
not alter the fact that students have
twice shown their overwhelming dis-
approval of this year’s calendar only
to be denied by the Executive
Committee.

In fairness to that committee, I
would like to say that drawing up an
academic calendar is not an easy task.
Many different needs and interests
must be seriously considered. My
complaint is that this year I’m afraid
ours were not. ;

. Why they were not remains largely
a mystery to me.

Why they were not is not clear to
me. Perhaps the committee has some
very compelling reasons for ‘standing
pat.’ Perhaps, like General Custer at
the Battle of Little Big Horn, they do
not wish to reverse their own decision.

Then, on the other hand, perhaps
they don’t think you care. If you do,
sign the circulating petition and join
the SGA Senate in presenting it to
Dr. Spencer at his home Tuesday
April 6.

My shoes are pinching. Please, ‘if
yours are, say so. ai
