6 the davidsonian October 22, 1976

“Arlo Guthrie entértains and reunites fans

Massachusetts. It’s the only state in

I

ARLO GUTHRIE picks and croons to Ovens |
Auditorium crowd Sunday night.

Ralph forsakes burgers
for bureaus in turnover

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer
For fifteen years Ralph Quacken-
bush, proprietor of The Hub on Main
Street, has been congenially dishing

P

-Irv Wilson

Now The Hub will become an
antique furniture store. October 14
was the last day of food service, and
everything else including fixtures,
will be sold as quickly as possible.

By RICK MILLER
Staff Writer

If you like music, if you like Arlo
Guthrie, if you like people. .who like
music, or if you like people who like
Arlo Guthrie, you should haye atten-
ded the Alice’s Restaurant Massacree
Movement Reunion and Arlo Guthrie
Concert at Ovens Auditorium this
past Sunday night.

Guthrie, accompanied by Shenan-
doah (four of the wackiest musicians
ever to have come forth from Massa-
chusetts), began the Reunion and
Concert at 8:20 and played for two
hours, pleasing the audience with old
favorites like ‘‘City of New Orleans”,
‘‘Ukelele Lady’’ and ‘‘Me and My
Goose” as well as a number of tunes
from his new album, Amigo.

He also sang two ‘talkin’ songs’,
the well-known ‘‘Motorcycle Song’’
and a new one (which he calls a ‘clam-
shanty’) called ‘‘The Saga of Reuben
Clamzo’’, a song placed in the time of
the first pilgrims when ‘clammers’
would have to hunt ‘giant clams’ and
kill them with ‘clam clams’ and kill
them with ‘clampoons’. Nonsense, of
course, but it makes a humerous
story.

There were a number of interesting
surprises during the course of the
evening such as Guthrie’s introduc-
tion to ‘‘Massachusetts”’ from Amigo:
‘«..Me and the band kinda like

Massachusetts. Nixon don’t like

the Union that didn’t vote for him in
'72. That’s why we like it...”" and
‘*,.A lot of songs have been written
to a lot of things. John Denver wrote
a song to a sheep. ‘‘I didn’t ever write
no song to no sheep. Wrote one to a
goose, though...’’

Another surprise came at the end of
Guthrie’s first set of songs wheg‘his
band played a six song set of their
own highlighted by a hot-licked
instrumental version of ‘‘Sweet Geor-
gia Brown’’ (probably a first for a
rock concert) and ‘‘I Am My Own
Grandpa” (a tongue-twisting tale of
intertwining intermarriage).

The concert climaxed with ‘‘Ukelele
Lady’’ for which Guthrie asked for
‘moonlight’ and then proceeded to
sing as the band hula-danced and
provided barbershop quartet backup.

Although the rest of the concert
was excellent, it reached its low point
on the set closer of the concert,
“Connection” from Amigo, which was
entirely too loud and lacked the
quality of the female vocal part which
was most ably provided by Linda
Ronstadt on the album.

Guthrie redeemed himself with a
three song encore including ‘‘Okie
from Muskogee’, ‘‘Amazin’ Grace”
and “‘Stealin’’’, after which the crowd,
highly satisfied by what they had
heard, gave him a short standing

ovation and left for home.

Homecoming satisfi

up hamburgers and milkshakes to Quackenbush will, however, keep the ties were well-pl ople seni
Davidson students; indeed, a bus service in addition to his new By ELLEN STEBBINS had fun and i aeaecaiy He is, ee
(Raloh lt hambusecn had wenn furniture business. and ‘ ie :
alp ger k ecome one TOM ENGLE of a big weekend more now that its spent
of those revered Davidson traditions Reflecting back upon the last Staff Writers over than I did before.” whole
one talks about. Hub frequenters, fifteen years, Quackenbush said, ‘‘I Ragandledd Gf chele particul : A foreign student, whose obser- do tha
therefore, were surprised to see the have really enjoyed this job, but it ion eS ama 5 t aie vations are particularly incisive be-
Going Out of Business” signs posted finally boiled down to what I wanted “hig wealenda!! ss . ie z cause of the outsider’s objectivity he
in the front window. to do the rest of my life. I asked nas fhere ia at ee ae lends, remarked that ‘‘while there was D
When queried as to why he was myself, ‘Why not do what I really peculiar about them nay ive nothing too surprising about Home- one
closing, Quackenbush replied that for enjoy the most anyway?’ So I decided observation mav be Sint A nf coming except the importance and pe
some time he had been restoring to build furniture full-time. I’m really Viole ite ee of es ae Mn De propaganda attached to it, it was very ee
antique furniture as a hobby, but. for looking forward to it. Since doing this this : raaived ae ete om as Bee festive and boisterous as expected. Bees
the past ten months it had become doesn’t even seem like a job to me, it had peek a Cp obieis A apaley raed The Saloon Show was good because of om
practically a second job. ‘It got so will be almost Utopian,” he said. influened ution. the ba ee , the student participation involved.” pe
that I was working until eleven etudental acre me of most Said a sophomore girl, “‘I had more ote
o'clock each weeknight, plus all day Ralph says that he will miss Despite the feeli that a f fun than I expected to. The concert corny
Saturdays and Sundays.” contact with students the most, for he juloos have that Hae peo. was great and I even liked the rip
A decision finally had to be made as always enjoyed talking with them anecueanolusly samor te ne Western theme— it lent a spirit of see
to which job to do. ‘‘I realized that when they'd come in for something to whieh like tela ee or iL unity.” Finally, one apparently intel- mee
making and restoring furniture was eat. ‘‘But it’s not like I’m leaving dices, has outlived its aa Seon lectually inclined senior guy added, thane
what I really enjoyed doing, and it is town,” he adds; ‘indeed, I want all Seek pec aeata) om re ci bs P eat “Homecoming was wild; we enjoyed see
certainly more creative than fixing a my Davidson friends to drop by and weekend’s revel Lees “i i y d ‘s iu some get-down partying, some ser- 1 ebay
hamburger,’ Quackenbush said. chat with me anytime.” ; wane Aeapolnied. (popsd ony iously hard-core action.” ae
students who anticipated a less than Th
stimulating weekend, later confessed Unspontaneous allows
: to having enjoyed genuinely pleasant f ensul
p time. That students disagree on their frater
views concerning big weekends is ule ay
re Bummed out evidenced by the many criticisms good
° encountered. One prevalent school of often
Though students’ expectations of hough A i ifi acade
and responses to Homecoming week i PuaNE 2208 GUecuune ae Brtitl th
end ran the gamut from ene orl pe! seuere ane ee. 4
blithesome to gloomy and dishear- BIBL esa ue Sino aaa
tened, the majority foresaw and end. “It is inconsistent with the rest On
experienced a delightful weekend. A f the D id - ; It’
few less than exuberant students’ Dee paar ane College ea. a ver
expectations ran along the lines of one ee formal At Sains gee ideon : pa
ee Be eon out man” informal atmosphere. Psychologically appa!
and another’s ‘‘I couldn't care less paar ~ nina Apa _ eal bn
_ about Homecoming.” freeeaie pia ee adel —
. et: a me PIned : ncoun gripe focus
HARRY PAPPAS plays pig with enthusiasm in -Irv Wilson ee Ose of —_ the funds spent on Homecoming _— form:
Sig Ep mudslide. es id paste sale inet activities in order to eliminate the the b
weekend—the activi- occasional boring weekend. Said one on t
