the davidsonian

April 9, 1976

aoe, -!
Udall supports legislation
for conservation, reform

By CATHY LANDIS
Feature Editor

Every election a minority of people
support a candidate whom they know
should be president but who has little
chance of winning. This year the
die-hard idealists back Morris K.
Udall. Supporting Udall becomes
more a matter of principles than of
politics; he is the only viable progres-
sive candidate running. Udall was
elected to the House of Repre-
sentatives in 1961. The theme of his
congressional career has_ been
“courage, candor, and reform.”

A group of 45 fellow House
members urged Udall to enter the
1976 presidential race because of his
early leadership against the Vietnam
War, his action against the Seniority
System and political corruption, and
his legislative programs to heal the
country’s economic, energy, and
environments! problems. They recog-
nize him as a myoptic visionary with
one eye on the future.

“Mo”

Morris Udall, co nly called
“Mo” was born June 15yF1922; in St.
John’s, Arizona. He served four years
with the Air Force in the Pacific in
World War II; he was discharged as a
captain. He graduated with distinc-
tion in 1949 with a law degree from
the University of Arizona.

Udall now serves as chairman of the
Environmental Subcommittee of the
House Commitee on Interior and

Insular Affairs. He is the leading
House sponsor of the National Land
Use Planning Act, the Surface Min-
ing Control and Reclamation Act, and
a three billion dollar energy research
and development program.

He has been active in passing
conservation measures including the
Wilderness Act and those estab-
lishing the Redwood National Park;
North Cascades National Park,
Indian Dunes National Lakeshores,
the Assateague and Gateway Sea-
shore, and the Land of Conservation
Act.

Conservation

Both the New York Times and
Field and Stream Magazine have
named him one of the leading con-
servationists in Congress. The
National Wildlife Federation awarded
him ‘‘Legislator of the Year’’ award
for 1973.

He has published three books:
Arizona Law of Evidence, The Job of
the Congressman, and Education of a
Congressman. He has written articles
for Reader’s Digest, Progressive, The
New Republic, Playboy, Saturday
Review/World, The New York Times
and Los Angeles Times have also
published his articles.

The first priority of a Udall
administration will be jobs. He
believes that full employment is the
key to steady, balanced , economic
growth and an end to poverty and

discrimination. He proposes that the

“ present unemployment costs of $50

billion a year in additional welfare and
lost taxes could be used for health and
child care, railroads, recycling,
housing, solid waste management,
and for the aged. He would expand

the public works and public service .
. programs such as rebuilding the

nation’s railroad beds, mass transit,
sewage plants, water and water
treatment facilities.

He backs a sound energy policy of
restructuring the oil giants and the
energy wasteland. Udall opposes big
business. He holds a 90 per cent
voting record in favor of labor. He
wants to restore competition in
energy, transportation, food market-
ing, drugs, and steel.

Udall favors a no-fault system for
auto insurance. He has proposed
legislation establishing a competitive
review commission to develop an

industry-by-industry program to |

restore competition.
Civil Rights

Udall supports a full and vigorous
enforcement of the civil rights laws.
He believes the most crucial element
in achieving these goals will be the
quality of moral leadership forth-
coming from the President. He played
an important role in the passage of
the major Civil Rights Act, the
Voting Rights Act, and the Open
Housing Act.

Udall holds a progressive position

on women’s rights. He backs
legislation which would provide free
child care to the poor and low income
families. He pushes the ERA, wants
to enforce the law to achieve the goals
of Title IX, and has proposed several
reforms in the Social Security
System. He supports the Supreme
Court decision on abortion.

Foreign Affiars is Udall’s weakest
area. He supports Israel totally and
believes that peace can be achieve
through peaceful means. He stands
for cut-back in defense spending

Conservation

Udall’s chief concern is the environ-
ment. He feels it is important that the
environment not be sacrificed by
needs caused by panic such as
lowering air and water standards and
burning coal. He is the biggest pusher
of the development of alternative
forms of energy.

Udall leads the liberal pack, but
most have little hope for his victory.
He obviously has not given up
though: last night he came in second
in Wisconsin as he did in New York.

Vitriolic him = ves with raw power

Taxi Driver

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

Now that he is a fairly well established film
director, Martin Scorsese, I hope, has enough
economic resources to enable him to buy a house in
the country. For if his latest film, Taxi Driver, is
any indication of his attitude toward city life, then
the sooner he gets away from urban areas, the
happier he will be.

Taxi Driver is a film of incredible power: a
relentless, at times shrill vendetta against the big
city and the way it entraps humanity.

The film, with a screenplay by Paul Schraeder,
can perhaps be divided into four segments of
different lengths which variously elaborate on and
collide with the sections coming before. The central
factor in each is the title character, an ex-marine
named Travis Bickle (Robert DeNiro) who takes a
job as a nighttime cab driver in New York (six in the
evening til six in the morning) mainly, he tells his
boss, because of the long hours.

Much of the first part of the film is seen through
the windows of Travis’ cab, as he drives through the
“‘underside’’ of the city. In this early section,
Scorsese first begins to build up the feeling of threat,
which comes to dominate the film. The darkness of
the night is relieved only by the garishness of porno
movie houses and grimy restaurants. People emerge
out of the darkness and suddenly disappear into it
again. We hear Travis, in his journal, yearn for ‘
real rain,’’ which will wash away all the deus,

including the human kind.

He sees an antidote to this dark world in Betsy, a
stylish, sophisticated campaign worker, played by
Cybil Shepherd. Scorsese uses Shepherd here much
the same way Elaine May used her in The
Heartbreak Kid: as an idealized, inaccessible
American dream-girl. She does accept Travis’
invitation for a date, being fascinated by his
personality, but understandably cuts off the
relationship with great abruptness when he takes
her to one of the porno houses which adorn his
cab-driving beat.

Shattered by this rejection, which he can’t
understand, Travis begins the metamorphosis from
merely a lonely cabbie to a dangerous ‘‘deviant’’. He
sees himself as a type of savior, a role which is
personalized through his relationship with a
twelve-year-old prostitute named Iris (Jodie Fos-
ter). Although he finds it easier to talk to Iris than
to Betsy, Travis is still ineffectual; Iris doesn’t want
to be saved. So Travis decides to turn to violence.

This second part of the film is a haunting acting
tour de force for DeNiro as Travis, as we see him
alone in his apartment challenge and destroy, in his
imagination, various species of human debris with
the very real arsenal of weaponry which he has
purchased.

Scorsese continues to build the tension as Travis
lays plans for his saving act: the assassination of the
presidential candidate for whom Betsy works.

The third part of the film, in which Travis takes

action, cannot be effectively discussed without
reducing its wrenching effect. Suffice it to say that
the catharsis which it almost brings about is
effectively postponed by the fourth part, a serene
but grimly ironic coda. Paradoxically, Schraeder
and Scorsese have so manipulated you by this point
that this seeming calm is like the eye of the storm: it
is the most threatening part of the whole film.

The most amazing thing about the film is its
sustained power: it grabs you at the beginning, and
continues throttling you down to the last frame.
This is due to a combination of factors. Michael
Chapman and Michael Zingale’s cinematography
alternately picks out the minutest details of dirt and
garbage, and ensconses you in a dream world of slow
motion and a fog of exhaust fumes.

The sets of Charles Rosen and Herbert Mulligan
are loaded with so much meaningless clutter that
you can almost smell the stench; Travis’ apartment,
for example, is beautifully appalling.

The musical score was the last created by the
distinguished composer Bernard Hermann (his
previous credits included Citizen Kane, Fahrenheit
451, and a number of Hitchcock films, including The
Birds and Psycho), and centers around a highly
evocative tenor sax refrain beautifully played by
Ronnie Lang.

DeNiro creates, in Travis Bickle, a classic
portrayal of a loser. He plays him completely
without sentimentality, and arouses in the viewer
the same emotions he arouses in the various
characters he meets in the film.

The last thing I would want to do is to scare
people away from the film unduly; it is an
extraordinary work of art. But I do think it’s
important to be forewarned that this is no
drawing-room comedy. It’s a vitriolic film; perhaps
at times too much so. But for those interested in the
raw power of the cinematic art, I can’t think of.a
more appropriate film than this one.
