April 23, 1976

the davidsonian

)

Faculty que

Polley ‘ax

By MAX E. POLLEY
Professor of Religion

My position on athletics can be
stated simply. I believe in athletics as
an extra-curricular activity partici-
pated in by students in their spare
time. Anything that borders on
professionalism is, in the long run, a
disservice to students and the aca-
demic institution.

I am very conservative at this
point—in fact, reactionary. The ori-
ginal intention of encouraging stu-
dents to become involved in athletics

was to assure that they lead a .

balanced life. For students to devote
all their time to study will surely dull
their minds.

I am delighted that so many
Davidson students participate in
some form of athletic program — inter-
collegiate, club sports, and intra-
mural. It would be ideal if all students
had some sport in which they partici-
pated. But the key to the value of
sports is participation; the spectators
may be momentarily entertained, but
their bodies and minds receive little
benefit from watching other people
perform. This is why I favor empha-
sizing continuing sports in college,
developing some athletic skills the
students can carry with them through
life.

Auguments Rebutted

The two basic arguments for a
nationally competitive basketball
program are that (1) it helps raise
money for the institution and (2) it
helps our admissions’ program. In
both these areas it is difficult to
obtain hard facts.

We are told that a successful
basketball program will attract mon-
ey to the institution. Certainly no one
expects that the basketball program
will show a profit from gate receipts.
(During Driesell’s best year basket-
ball showed a loss of $4,000.) Nor
should it. But the question is, “How
much are we willing to spend to
attract money?”’ A realistic estimate
is that the basketball program cost
the College $275,000 this year, monies
spent from the operating funds of the
College. The. Wildcat Club has contri-
buted nothing toward the basketball
program; their funds support the
football program. The basketball
program is paid for from endowment
income, alumni contributions, and
student tuitions. That’s more than
$200 per student. Is it worth it?

The total athletic budget at David-
son runs around $800,000 a year, 10
. percent of the total College budget. Is
this an overemphasis on athletics? I
believe it is. By comparison (admit-
tedly my figures are four years out of
date), Notre Dame spends $1.8 mil-
lion on athletics out of a total budget
of $60 million. That’s 3 percent of
their total budget. But at Notre Dame
it is a business. The gate receipts
(including TV) total $2 million; the
intercollegiate athletic program con-
tributes $200,000 a year to the
operating expenses of the university.
At a time of economic inflation and
' recession, I do not believe Davidson
can afford to put $800,000 a year into
the athletic program.

Ivory Tower Preferred

How successful is the basketball
program in attracting money to the
institution? This is difficult to deter-
mine because there are a variety of

i mn

reasons which lead people to contri-
bute. But I must admit that it
bothers me to use the student athlete
as a way to sell Davidson to pros-
pective donors. It borders on exploit-
ation. I have no such qualms about
selling Davidson through its aca-
demic reputation. I guess I simply
believe that academics is more central
to education than is athletics. In an
academic setting, I prefer the “Ivory
tower’’ of teaching, research, and
scholarship to the ‘‘fantasy world’’ of
Saturday’s Hero. -

Admission Benefits Questioned

The Snow-Westmoreland article in
last week’s Davidsonian emphasized
the benefits our admissions’ program
received through a nationally ranked
team. It did increase the number of
applications. Did it increase their
quality? There have been various
explanations given about why College
Board scores have declined in the
1970's, but this is the first time I have
heard it linked to our no longer being
ranked in the top 20 in the nation. The
article states that the average College
Board score was higher in the 1960's
when we were nationally ranked than
in the 1970’s when we are not
nationally ranked. Therefore...? The
logic escapes me. Using the same
data, could it not equally follow that
if we stiffen admissions’ requirements
and increase our average College
Board score to 1800 we would again
achieve national ranking? Or could it
not also be argued that achieving
national ranking in the 1960's led’ to
the decline in our College Board
scores in the 1970's?

I have never claimed that the
academic standards at Davidson Col-
lege were lowered in the 1960's to

The

|

‘f Nadian k Vs

make possible a nationally ranked
basketball team. No one within the
institution has ever said that. Those
on the outside have accused us of
lowering our standards, but to my
knowledge this did not take place. Of
course, there is always pressure to
lower standards, and it comes from a
variety of quarters, not just athletics.
It is always a struggle to maintain
high academic standards.

Wrong Models

But having said this, let me add
that Davidson is unique in its attempt
to become a small, liberal arts college
which combines a big-time basketball
program with high academic stand-
ards. I find it strange that in all other
areas of college life, the schools with
which we wish to compare ourselves
are Dartmouth, Williams, Swarth-
more, Haverford, and Carleton (none
of which are nationally ranked in
basketball), while the schools with
which we wish to compare ourselves
in basketball are UCLA, Indiana, and
UNC-Charilotte. -

Princeton's Scholar Athletes

The school which Snow-Westmore-
land selected as ideally combining
big-time basketball and high aca-
demic standards is Princeton. I
suppose it is a matter of perspective.
Princeton would argue that it has not
gone big-time. I have no figures in
this area, but. I offer you two stories.
The first was a conversation I
overheard in the 1960's while travel-
ing by train from New York to
Charlotte. Two Princeton graduates
were discussing their school’s basket-
ball loss to Davidson over the
weekend. I was surprised when one of

- them said, ‘‘That’s what happens

es’ big time basketball

New Prophet

when you try to compete with a school
that’s gone big-time in athletics.” (I
kid you not—it did happen.) The
second story comes from Chris Thom-
forde, a former Princeton basketball
player who is presently chaplain at
Colgate University. He was recruited-
by both Davidson and Princeton in
1966. He decided on Princeton be-
cause he believed their program
placed far less pressure on the stiident
athlete than did Davidson's. He -
received no financial aid during his
four years at Princeton and enjoyed
basketball immensely. Princeton ob-
viously looks for. the outstanding
athlete who is also gifted academi-
cally. But they award scholarships on
the basis of need only. Athletes are
not paid to play at Princeton.
Students are not required to go to
practice; if there is a conflict between
academic and athletic responsibilities,
the academic. takes precedence. No
games are scheduled during exam
periods. So when they have a success-
ful season, it is a happy accident not a
result of intensive recruiting and vast
expenditures of money. When they
have an unsuccessful season, no one
gets upset and demands the dismissal
of the coach. Chris Thomforde con-
siders the Princeton program ideal;
they win their share of the games, but
they are seldom nationally ranked. In
his judgment, the athletic and aca-
demic programs blend harmoniously:
I suggest we use Princeton as our
model. a .
Athletics should not be used as

_ either a means of raising money or as

a means for recruiting students. The
athlete should play for the sheer joy of
it. Let us give sports back to the
students where it belongs.
