the davidsonian

September 24, 1976

1” SIMONE SpA ia Idee

THe [X

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

College President Samuel R. Spen-
cer Jr. is presently considering pro-
posals aimed at ending sex discrimin-
ation on the Davidson campus.

A ten-member Title IX Self-study
Committee, chaired by Director of
Personnel and Administrative Ser-
vices Robert J. Stephenson, presen-
ted these proposals in a report after
conducting an evaluation of life at
Davidson.

Title IX is a federal regulation
which demands: that every college
evaluate sex discrimination in admis-
sions, treatment of students, and
employment; modification of policies
w practices found discriminatory;

past sex discrimination.

Spencer has appointed Stephenson
and Assistant Dean of Students Mary
Lou Dietler as Davidson’s Title IX
Coordinators.

“It is very important that students
read and understand the grievance
procedure for reporting sex-discrin-
ination violations,” said Dietler.

“Bob and I are ‘sources of inform-
ation and counsel.’ In the grievance
procedure we are advisors, not jud-
-Irv Wilson ges,’ she continued. _

Title IX calls for sex-blind admis-
sions policies but exempts private
undergraduate colleges like Davidson
from those requirements.

TITLE 1X may bring security phones to male
halls. The secret isin knowing when to use it.

Title IX is that portion of the Educational Amendments of
1972 which forbids discrimination on the basis of sex in
educational programs or activities receiving Federal funds.
The grievance procedures mandated under this legislation
were formulated in order to ensure the prompt and equitable
resolution of student and employee complaints of sex

‘discrimination.
The college recognizes the importance of providing an

opportunity for students and employees to voice complaints of SteP 3. !f the department head is unable to devisea _
satisfactory remedy for the complaint within five

working dys, the grievance shall be referred to an ad

{ hoc committee appointed by the president. This
‘committee has ten working days in which to schedule
and hold a meeting. The committee will make
recommendations to the appropriate college officer for

sex discrimination and to receive a fair hearing. These
complaints will receive prompt and considerate action. The
dignity of an individual will be held in the highest regard at all
times and the right of appeal will not jeopardize a position,
‘underrhine a reputation, or result in discrimination. Any
grievance to be considered under these procedures must be
brought up not later than ten class (for students) or working
(for employees) days after the time that the student or
employee has knowledge of the act which is the basis for the
grievance.

Two Title 1X Coordinators, Ms. Dietler for students and Mr.
Stephenson for all others, have been appointed in accordance
with Title IX legislation, and will serve as sources of
information and couse! in situations involving alleged
violations of Title IX provisions. In addition, other parties
connected with these grievance procedures are urged to
consult the Title IX Coordinators for information and advice.

For members of the Faculty, instances of alleged sex
discrimination will be dealt with by the Committee on
Professional Affairs in accordance with the Faculty By-Laws
and the Constitution of Davidson College.

final action.

Note:
dispute.

A. Judicial Cases

|. Administrative, Professional, and Hourly Staff
_. Code of Disciplinary Procedure.)
Step 1. An employee with a grievance involving alleged sex _ :
| discrimination shall first talk with his or her supervisor.
The supervisor shall reach a decision and communicate
it verbally to the employee within five working days
after being told of the situation causing the grievance.

B. Sex Discrimination in Grading

Step 2. If the employee feels that the supervisor has not —
devised a satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the
individual has five working days to present the

remedial action to eliminate effects of

grievance either in writing or verbally to the appropriate
department head. The following information should be
supplied to the department head:

1. The specific grievance.
2. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
3. The remedy or corrective action sought.

The employee may be accompanied by another college
employee of his or her choice during any of the above
steps. All time limits mentioned above may be
extended by mutual agreement of all parties in the

Il. Students

Instances of alleged sex discrimination involving
accusations made under the Code of Responsibility (including
the Honor System) or in the hearing process itself will be

"dealt with through the mechanisms outlined in the Code of
Disciplinary Procedure as in all other judicial cases. (See the

Instances of alleged sex discrimination in grading will be
dealt with through the normal grade appeal procedure.

Step 1. A student with a grievance involving alleged sex
discrimination in grading shail first talk with the
professor from whom the grade was received (not later

‘‘We will contirue to accept men

‘and women on a quota basis,’’ said

Stephenson.
The Committee carefully examined
the housing facilities at Davidson.
“We spent more time on housing

than on any other single topic. After

considering all pertinent information,

we concluded that pros and cons of
each living facility balanced out, and
the college is guilty of sex discrimin-
ation in only two minor instances,”
explained Dietler.

‘First, emergency lines to the
police are provided in girls’ halls, but
not guys’. And second, washing
machines are more conveniently lo-
cated for the women. We recom-
mended that these problems. be
alleviated.”’

“Personally, I’d like to see emer-
gency phones installed in the mens’
dorms. A situation might well arise
when a guy: would need a direct line to
the police,” she said.

Under the broad topic of education
programs and activities, the college
does not comply with Title IX
Regulations in three areas.

“In selection of cheerleaders, qou-
tas are set for males and females as
partners. We realized that cheer-
leaders’ routines are set up on a
male-female partner basis and any
change would be difficult. This year
we'd like to sound out the student
body on its opinions of the cheerleader

selection process,” remarked Step-

le 24, 1976

The Committee noted ‘his the
Homecoming Court was open only to
women, a blatant example of dis-
crimination.

“I know that there have been
murmurings in the past that the
guys were going to put up a candidate
for homecoming queen. The group
agreed that they should be allowed to
do so,” said Dietler.

Also, the Philanthropic Literary
Society is all male. The Society will be
contacted concerning their member-
ship practices and Title IX require-
ments.

Access to course offerings was
deemed equal for males and females
except in gymnastics and the choral
groups. The committee advised that
gymnastics be opened to men, but the
choral groups proved to be a sageny
problem. at

“We feel that we are Konsdhe the

spirit of the law with our choral -:

groups—the Male Chorus , the wo-
mens’ Chorus, and the Madrigal
Singers—because every student has
an opportunity to sing in at least one
group,” said Stephenson. ‘‘The Com-
mittee called for comparable profes-
sional direction for each group and
indicated that legal advice should be
sought if the College intends contin-
ued use of the admittedly sexist
labels,’’ he said.

Title IX requires that all palleaas
with complete health facilities do not
discriminate in the services they offer.

brings end to sexual di

_henson.

The Committee ac
state in its officia
do not offer full h
' The College’s s
sonnel, faculty :
counselors must
counseling.

““We don’t we
advice like, ‘Since
spend too much n
Just get a degree
will be married be
Dietler..

The Committee
in dispinsing fin
regular channels
ation in student
tices.

The Self-Study
ted July 21 and su
Assistant to th
Clark has been p
for Spencer’s eval

“‘T took the Cx
mendations, sum
vidually, noted tl
nels I thought e:
gave my informat
said Clark.

Title IX will ]
sex-discriminati
colleges across th
ment of Health
Welfare (Title 1D
nizes the comple:
this area and has

until July 21, 197&

tudents and personnel take note: Davidson Title IX grie\

than ten class days after the time the student has
knowledge of the act which is the basis for the

grievance). The professor shall reach a decision and
communicate it verbally to the student within five class

days after being told of-the grievance.

1. The specific grievance.

- Ste

Step 2. If the student feels that the professor has not devised a
satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the individual
has five class days to present the grievance either in
writing or verbally to the appropriate departmer.t
chairman. The following information should be
supplied to the department chairman:

2. The facts upon which the grievance is based. =
3. The remedy or corrective action sought.

solution to settle the grievance.

C. General

Step 3. If the department chairman is unable to devise a
satisfactory remedy for the complaint within five days,
the grievance shall be referred to the Vice President for
Academic Affairs. The Vice President for Academic
Affairs has ten class days in which to devise a final

Instances of alleged sex discrimination involving neither ‘

grading nor the Code of Responsibility will be dealt with
according to the following procedure:

Step 1. A student with a grievance involving alleged sex
discrimination shall first talk with the individual
responsible for the situation causing the grievance.

This individual shall reach a decision and communicate
it verbally to the student within five days after being
told of the grievance.

Step 2. If the student feels that the individual has not devised a
satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the student has
five class days to present the grievance either in writing
or verbally to the approprite department or
organizational head. The following information should
be supplied to the department or organizational head:
