October 15, 1976

age 4 .

Georgian

By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer
It is interesting to note that if
Jimmy Carter had been eligible for
reelection for Governor in 1974, few
Georgians would have voted for him.
His popularity had dwindled consid-
pid si the end of his four-year

Within a year after taking office,

- Jimmy “Who” had accomplished the

goal which highlighted his guborna-
torial campaign—consolidation of a
seemingly infinite number of state
agencies in a last resort to control an
inefficient bureaucracy and runaway
inflation. Carter’s reorganization soon
proved afe embarrassing failure. As

Davidson community
jeopardized by

selfishness

Davidson College no longer knows itself. Years of looking
toward the future, keeping its nose to the grindstone and its
eyes on the horizon has left Davidson a victim of a special
brand of tunnel vision. The students, the faculty, the
administration, and various secular and non-secular
organizations made up of these factions have drifted apart so
that now the term “academic community” is empty. Davidson
community members still gather together in groups, but there
is sadly little interaction between them. The SGA Senate, a
body whose purpose is to serve the student body has missed
numerous opportunities to acquaint students with some of the
issues they expected to be handling. Instead the Senate has
attempted to conduct its public relations from the other end,
expecting students to fill out “gripe sheets” orto respond
when a Senator knocks on their door asking for suggestions.
The College Union has operated in a similar way. An
organization dedicated to programming for the Davidson
community, the Union has done very little recently to attract
members of this community into the decisions made about
programming. The Davidsonian, which regards itself asa .
student publication, must assign its columns on student
opinion, presumably because it has failed to be a forum for
freely given student expression. In general, the extra
curriculars at Davidson College have ceased to be vehicles for
the exchange of ideas and have now become chores to be
laboriously undertaken. The reason for this is that any feeling
of fellowship between members of a particular organization
has been supplanted by feelings of individualism and
selfishness. Students have become increasingly concerned |
with their personal achievements and have lost the urge and
the ability to function as acommunity.

To forge areturn to community status for Davidson, we
suggest that every person at Davidson commit himself to
attending whatever opportunity for exchanging ideas is
available. The Staley lecture series next week, Dr. Spencer’s

Tuesday open-ends, and Thursday’s Trustee reception should
be heavily attended. The SGA Senate and the College Union
could benefit the current situation by holding more open-ends
with formats designed to relate policies and programs to other
students. Each person must involve himself for the good of the
community. Selfishness only leads toward individual carrels in
the library and away from a full educational experience.

the davidsonian

MaiHOW COVINGION ,.<...-....ccscccsesvanckuue Be oil Editor
CONIGHIIIIOIN 6 ccc bivis vec cha teuvoceevawe Managing Editor
JeffSioh .:......... Se jue webs ah OE be Business Manager |
NM 6. 400 vos oi pcesecdacea. 6 munactad Photography Editor

SGOGR OI 05 isis cc ck c eee eee wit, |. Production Manager
PICT ROMO an 65 ik So ives ois ow site Editorial Page Editor
Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan .......... Asst. News Editors
Bruce Holliday & AmandaHall ............... Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis .............. .. .Features Editors
EE A RP 5 ar a Advertising Manager
le i Lae ere Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-

“_son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian,
Box 218; Davidson, N.C. Yearly subsoription rate: $6.00.

President Ford noted in the first of
the Great Debates, the Governor's
new program caused a fifty percent
increase in the state, budget, an
increase hardly in keeping with the
rate of inflation. Carter’s big boo-boo
was widely overlooked by mapy
citizens, for all of his other state
programs proved pleasing to the
populace.

This sense of contentedness has
been accredited to the Governors that
originally set the other major Carter
programs in motion: Carl Sanders and
Lester Maddox. Following in their
footsteps, Carter completed programs
including conservation measures,
school desegregation, highway im-
provements, and other policies that
had been initiated prior to his

Letters to the editor

900 Room

To the Editor:

Davidson students, at least in my
years there (1969-1973), always dis-
played a unique respect for perfor-
mers in all phases of entertainment.
Conversative, liberal, moderate, rad-
ical, apolitical students all shared
that valuable capacity to sit and
listen attentatively to a talent who
reciprocated by concentrating more
on his or her material. The result was
a mutually enjoyable atmosphere and
a reputation for Davidson as a good
place to entertain.

What happened? A fellow alumnus
was at Davidson recently and decided
to go to the new Union coffeehouse
one night. Musicians were performing
to one of the noisiest “‘audiences’”” my

doubts Carter’s intention

Administration. As a whole, Georgia
voters were astute enough to realize
their Governor’s shortcomings, and
by 1974 they were looking with
eagerness for a new man in the

-Governor’s Mansion.

In the light of Carter’s four-year
performance, it is not surprising that
Georgia snickered at ‘Smiley’ Car-
ter’s bid for the Presidency. But the
same warm personality, openness and
self-confidence that appealed to Geor-
gians in 1970 has affected the rest of
the nation in the same manner. As
Carter’s popularity increased tremen-
dously on the national level, it would
be absurd to claim that his popularity
did not increase in his home state,
also. One must be careful in deter-

[see REORGANIZATION, page 5]

too noisy

friend has seen anywhere. He could
barely hear the music much less a
comment from someone at his own
table. He has seen a better audience
at a university coffeehouse than he
saw at Davidson. I was extremely
disappointed to see that Davidson
students showed a complete lack of
respect for anything but their own
interests. I sincerely hope the situa-
tion changes or musicians will by-
pass what was formerly an enjoyable
stop. My friend’s wife is a good
musician, and she had expressed an
interest in playing at Davidson until
she witnessed the loudness competi-
tion last week.
Jack Willits
Myrtle Beach, S.€.

Davidson too naive

To the Editor:

Here at Davidson I too am a token
of sorts, though not of an ethnic or
racial variety (despite what my
friends might say). I represent that
home of hard core indecency, New
York City. A careful survey of the
student catalogue will hone the
number of city residents here at
Davidson down to three faithful.
Though pseudo-New Yorkers abound,
from the various suburbs and town-
ships, there are only three from the
city itself.

While I am no better for my past
than anyone else, I am certainly no
worse. Students informed of my
hometown betray facial expressions of
curiosity and pity, and then launch

into a tirade of bad ‘‘Central Park

Humor’’. While I do not resent
Central Park jokes, it is the responsi-
bility I feel to cure city miscon-
ceptions that irks me: Yes, I have
been in Central Park and emerged
unscathed. Numerous hours were
spent last year, during the city fiscal
crisis, just attempting to raise a
consciousness of what the city was
about, what it meant to someone who
loved it. I became awfully tired of
repeating the same things over and
over. Still, of necessity, certain people
would remain beyond my reach. A
person raised in a small town cannot
possibly rationalize coming to the aid
of an eight - -million-person megalo-

polis that he or she would just as soon
see removed as a benign tumor.

I often end letters to friends with
‘‘From the land of naivete’’. Ob-
viously this is a ridiculous generaliza-
tion, but more I do not mean it
derogatorily. Nineteen years as a New
Yorker forces much upon one he does
not wish to accept or absorb. There is
a point of saturation, the city
achieves and goes beyond this point.
Thus, to say from the land of naivete
means only goodbye from a place
where I don’t have to act as if I know
everything. To be naive has its
advantages. At times I wish I were
more so.

Why am I here? (A question all
eventually ask.) I wonder myself at
times. Penance? I do not believe so. I
know I’ll go back to the city, defying
the words of Thomas Wolfe. And yet
here you see I can feign ignorance.
New York does not allow me the
privilege.

Thus, please do not ask me to be
the New York sophisticate. I’m on
vacation.

Robertson Park ’79
Davidson College

LETTERS |

The Davidsonian solicits
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and

signed. _We—reserve the
right to edit letters over 300
words in length.

