re} - .*
rane eer

the davideonian =

ae

a

October 8, 1976

Park takes oan at brary logistics -

By JAMES ENTWISTLE
a. Staff Writer

“I'm very paternalistic about the
library,’’ admits Dr. Leland M. Park,
director of the E. H. Little Library.
This admitted paternalism is comp-
lemented by an eagerness to discuss
any aspect of the college library.

‘Traditionally, the library here has

followed the academic trend of the
college. Up until the late fifties or
early sixties, Davidson was a prim-
arily textbook college and conse-
quently, the library did-not have its
current depth, emphasizing instead
outside reading and the classics.”

Park is quick to emphasize that
library development has not been a
crash program. He explains, ‘‘I
believe that the best method of
development is to establish a constant
rate of material acquisition and staff
growth. ‘Crash’ programs which buy
up all the collections in sight in the
hope that they will contain something
useful usually have an adverse. affect
in the long run.“

The most readily apparent aspect of
the enriched library program is the
new E. H. Little Building. Park, who
was instrumental in the planning of
the interior, is understandably proud.
‘“‘T think we’ve got a real bang-up
facility here, in terms of the archi-
tectural quality of the structure and
because the nature of it enhances the
services we can offer. This facility
tailors to the needs of the academic
community more closely than any
other library I’ve been exposed to. In
planning a new library, it’s important
to consult staff members about what
it should offer, rather than bringing in
outsede consultants. We made a point
of including our staff in the planning
and their advice has paid off.”

The three story structure houses
222,500 volumes, 48,000 government
documents, and 1530 periodicals with
room provided for future growth.
Also available are modern microfilm
machines and a seating capacity for
650 students. But the new structure
was primarily designed with one thing
in mind—the student.

‘‘Thelibrarian’s offices are posi-
tioned where they are and surrounded
with glass so they they will be
accessible,”’ according to Park. “If a
student can easily look into one of
these offices and establish eye contact
with the librarian, then he feels more
comfortable about going on in and
asking for assistance. We want the
student to feel that he is welcome in
any of our offices at anytime and that
he is not intruding on our privacy.”

The development of the new facility
went hand in hand with the develop-
ment of the library staff. ‘‘I really
wish all of this staff had been here
when I was a student,”’ Park confides.
‘‘The library is much more of a
two-way street now in terms of what
it has to offer to the students and the
efforts we take to make the student
body aware of what we offer. The
reference potential of the library has
been greatly wxpanded through the
efforts of Dr. Beaty, who also
frequently visits classes to provide
information potential research sour-
ces, This is one example of how we’re
trying to be available to the stu-
dents.”’

The acquisition of volumes and
periodicals is of extreme importance
in any library, but at Davidson the
decisions about what will be pur-
chased lice witheach academic de-

LIBRARY DIRECTOR Leland Park discusses

-Hunter Jennings

the in’s and out’s of the library stacks.

partment. The Faculty Library Com-
mittee, headed by Dr. Malcolm Lester
of the History Department and has a
student member, allots a portion of
the library budget to each department
which is then'responsible for the
selection of any books and periodicals
which deal with that department’s
subject area. In addition to this, some
volumes are purchased as the result of
student requests which are readily
welcomed by the staff.

“One solution would be to reduce
the number of periodical subscrip-
tions, but we prefer not to do this
since it would create a gap in our
collection of bound periodicals which
we might not be able to replace at a
later date,’’ he said.

The library also receives a varying
number of donations each year, the
past year having been a good one in
that 1816 volumes were recieved,
about 800 of which were from the

Horton Estate. In addition, profes- :

sors sometimes donate books that
they feel the library should have.
Park’s policy on donations is quite
strict. ‘‘Let m@ emphasize that all
donations are not accepted. I will not
fill our collection with junk. All
potential donations are screened by
members of the appropriate depart-
ment to ascertain whether they would
benefit our library. If they are not
kept, they are returned to the donor
or passed on to another library.”’
When donations are accepted, the
library never offers an estimation of
the value of the donation, so as not to
jeopardize the library’s status.

In addition to to acquisitions and
donations, several new books are
provided each year through endowed:
book funds. Such a fund consists of a
money donation which is placed in the
bank so that each year the interest
can be uSed to purchase a new
volume.

The library’s microfilm collection
consists mainly of back issues of
newspapers including complete runs
of seven major papers. A few period-
icals are on microfilm, but the
emphasis is towards microfilming
only newspapers for reasons of con-
venience. Park explains, ‘‘Quite sim-
ply, it’s more convenient to work with
a bound periodical than a microfilm
copy and easier to work with a
newspaper on microfilm than bound
editions of newspapers, so we empha-
size newspapers in our microfilm

collection.’’ This orientation is some-
what hindered by the fact that it is
often impossible to obtain back issues
of periodicals except on microfilm and
many periodicals require the purchase
of microfilm with a current subscrip-
tion.
The quality of services provided is
increased by the spirit of co-operation
that exists between libraries. Dr.
Park elaborates, ‘‘There are many
examples of such co-operation. If we
have duplicate volumes or ones we
don’t want, we can place them on lists
which are circulated throughout the
country and the world. Books are
passed back and forth between lib-
raries as a result of this listing.”’
Another form of inter-library—co-
operation which is a real benefit for
the Davidson library is the computer
hook-up that is shared with twenty

other libraries throughout. the state.
It originates at the'Ohio College
Library Center and eath unit was
financed by the North Carolina State
Library. ‘‘This hook-up is of ines-
timable value to, us,’’ Dr. Park
confides. ‘‘It used to be that each
catalog card had to have our infor-
mation hand typed .onto it. Now we
can punch in the necessary infor-
mation through our terminal. This
system makes the inter-library loan
process much speedier since we can
find out through the computer what
libraries have what volumes. The
computer is also used extyensively by

' the acquisition department.”

A library inventory was not con-
ducted last year so the number of
stolen volumes is not known. While a
number were undoubtedly stolen, Dr.
Park feels that thefts will decrease as
students become aware that virtually
any volume in the library is available
for use outside the library provided
that the student checks with a staff
member.

Dr. Park’s foremost goal for the
library is similar to the library’s entire
orientation— being student oriented.
“T would like each Davidson graduate
to feel that a library is something that
he simply can’t live without, some-
thing that the liberally educated
person really needs. They should
know that libraries have things to
offer that are not necessarily curri-
culum oriented. For example, the
seventy-two newspapers we receive
are not academically necessary, but
provide a source of enjoyment for
students. The library should sldo be
viewed as a place to have fun, to meet
people and get together with friends.
For this reason, I don’t really worry
about the noise level since I feel that
the students will develop the atmos-
phere which they find most academic-
ally conducive.”

a a i ren ty

Dawsons pick and sing

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

Performing this Friday and Satur-
day nights in the 900 Room of the
College Union will be the brothers Ed
and Bob Dawson, known profession-
ally as the Dawson Boys and featur-
ing music in the ‘‘easy rock pickin’
and singin’”’ mode.

In the past few years the brothers
have been playing the coffeehouse
circuit off and on and have opened
concerts for Harry Chapin and Leo
Kottke. They currently have an
album out, entitled ‘‘These Summer
Nights”, which features such backup
artists as Eric Weisburg on banjo and
Geoff Gutchen on piano.

The two are originally from Ches-

ter, S.C., and Ed is a Davidson
lit es TO A ae, —e

graduate currently in grad school at
South Carolina; he also writes most of.
the songs. They have performed
professionally at Davidson a number
of times but this will be their first
appearance in the 900 Room. :

According to Union Director C..
Shaw Smith, ‘‘Our budget cut has:
only allowed us to have special acts in.
the 900 Room: this is one of those
special acts. They are a very, very
good act. The last time they were here
they filled Chamber Banquet Hall and
played until 2:30 or 3:00 in the
morning.”’

The duo will do two sets Friday
night, at 9:30 and 10:30 pm, and sets
at) 9:00, 10:00, and 11:00 pm on
Saturday night. Admission is free
with ID. :

aE Ra ag
