—12

the davidsonian

February 13, 1976

Open letter to students

... Media rights contradict model

[Continued from page 4]

the respective publications.

No students, I think, favor the unbridled license
on the part of student editors to publish libelous,
pornographic, or undocumented information. How-
ever, within the parameters of responsible journal-
ism, it is imperative that the duly selected student
editors have the final authority over the editorial
policy and content of the publications. Is this too
much to ask?

The Model Bill of Students’ Rights at Colleges
and Universities in North Carolina addresses this
issue straightforwardly. It says (Section 25) that
“The student media shall be free of censorship. The
editors and/or managers of the student media shall
not be subject to disciplinary action by the institu-
tion because of student, faculty, administration,
alumni, or community disapproval of editorial policy
or content.”

Although Davidson has never adopted this
statement, can it be that we are a complete 180
degrees away from the consensus reached by the
framers of the Model Bill of Rights? I shudder to
think that we could be so far off the mark.

Compromise has been a large part of the drafting
of Davidson’s Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities. To anyone who cares to compare
Draft #1 with the present draft, this is obvious.

As one who participated significantly in the first
ten months of this evolution, I believe that the
students have given in significantly, much more so
than-have the other constituent groups. I also
believe that the compromising on the part of

~ewowwowworwevwwevrevwvwvwrvrwvwvwevwvevwevwevwvvwevwvwevwewvewvwewvwwvwww,

students has reached its ethical limit. To submit

further is not to compromise--it is to capitualate.
I do not believe in recognizing student rights

which are restricted by abundant qualifiers. For, in
my mind, qualified rights cease to be rights. Such
submission grates on my personal ethics.

In June, 1971, the Carnegie Commission on
Higher Education issued a report on the rights and
responsibilities of college students. Among other
findings, the report states the following:

All members of the campus have other

responsibilities and rights based upon the

nature of the educational process and the
requirements of the search for truth and its

free presentation... Institutional censorship

and individual or group intolerance of the

opinions of others are inconsistent with this

freedom. :
I, too, believe that such limitations are inconsis-

tent with the concept of higher education, and
especially with the ideals surrounding ‘‘the quest for
truth’’ which Davidson College so strongly es-
pouses.

The implications of the adoption of such qualified
statements of rights and responsibilities are not
insignificant.

If the Davidson studentry does not reject the
severely limiting proposals which are now being
considered, their acceptance will spell the emascula-
tion of student rights for a long time to,come.
Approval of the document with such language is
tantamount to relinquishing the basis of student
rights altogether.
studént rights altogether.

-_wewewoewevereveevvvvvwvw™*

I have said earlier that the adoption of a
statement of student rights and responsibilities
agreed to by all constituent groups of the college is
of primary importance. It is crucial to reach under-
standings on these areas of fundamental signifi-
cance.

However, I also assert that I do not believe in
qualifying rights to the point that they cease to be
rights. Some can accept this approach; I cannot.

I strongly believe in the desirability of a
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
and I have expended much energy toward that end.
However, before I could accept a statement in which
students are accorded only the facade of rights, I
would rather see the adoption of no statement at all.

Perhaps the College is unwilling to accept
statements such as I have forwarded; I, similarly,
find myself unable to accept theirs. My overriding
principles rule me and I do not plan to change.

When it becomes evident that real rights are not
to be accorded, the only alternative is to reject the
facade and let the exercise of adopting a written
statement die of natural causes.

If you are still with me through this discourse and
if you concur with the premises I maintain, then
confront John Munce, Bo Baskin, and Peyton
Marshall and be counted as the fate of the Statement
of Student Rights and Responsibilities is decided.

In the words of a time-worn cliche which never
held more truth, ‘‘Stick up for your rights.”’ If you
fail to do so, you can blame no one but yourselves.

later regret but yourselves.
cae - Blain Butner ’75

Washington, D.C.

Friday, February 13, 1976

-~wowwoworverevevvvwvvwrvwvwevrevrevevevrvrvvw™
BPBPBPBPPPEPPDPP DPD PADDD DD

Catesby Jones

Saturday, February 14, 1976

AllDay Graphics by Butler and Malone
2pm Basketball: William and Mary
7:30pm Wrestling: Hampden-Sydney
TBA Coffeehouse: Kathy Black and

Catesby Jones

Sunday, February 15, 1976

AllDay Graphics by Butler and Malone
8pm Interorganizational Forum Meeting
9pm Two Plays by William Butler Yeats

Monday, February 16, 1976

PSeeueuereCC eC CCC CCC CVCCUCUCUUV VV Y
RePPRIF
PGP GPGPLPLPLPLPRPLPRPRLPRRDPRDPD DOPOD ODIO

AliDay Graphics by Butler and Malone
AllDay Symposium on ‘‘Death and Dying”
7:30pm __— Panel Discussion: ‘‘Death and Dying,

Three Perspectives”’

Tuesday, February 17, 1976

AllDay Graphics by Butler and Malone

12 pm Share-It-With-Your-Brother Meal

4pm Military History Documentary
Film Series

7 pm Worship Service

7:30pm Coast Guard Auxiliary

Boating Safety Course

-wwewuwewweuuwuwww—uvvevvuvvuvwv”’%

~weewoewvevevevvvwvvevvuvvvwvuvvvvwvwvwwewewee
BBPPEODPPIPPODPDPOPPPPPPPPPLPLPEBDea ee

PPB PPODP DOPOD DOPOD DOPOD DOPOD POD OPED ABD APPA APBD BB BrBDBDeoeh

Bandwagon

AllDay Graphics by Butler and Malone

3:30pm Swimming: Emory

7:30pm Wrestling: Washington and Lee

8 pm Pop Film: Monty Python’s ‘‘And Now for
Something Completely Different’’

TBA Coffeehouse: Kathy Black and

Hampden-Sydney, Va.

Stowe Galleries -
Davidson
Lexington, Va.
Love Auditorium |

900 Room

Stowe Galleries ©
Johnston Gym

900 Room .

Pape Ai All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries
900 Recm AllDay Swimming: Southern Conference Richmond, Virginia
: Tournament .
10 am Interorganizational Forum Meeting Conference Room
Stowe Galleries opm maa Laan — Dorothea Lange’. . , Honors Center
TBA e Closer for Me’’ and ‘‘The Trees
Hodson Hall 5:55pm Women’s Basketball: Wake Forest Winston-Salem, N.C.
8pm Basketball: Wake Forest Winston-Salem, N.C.
Thursday, February 19, 1976
AllDay Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries
Stowe Galleries All Day Swimming: Southern Conference Richmond, Virginia
Banquet Hall Tournament
Green Meeting Room 10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
10:50am Humanities 122 Film: ‘Voyage to Perkins Auditorium
DCPC Enchanted Isles” are)
Perkins Auditorium 7 pm Psychology Club Meeting Conference Room
7pm Wrestling: College of Charleston Davidson

Wednesday, February 18, 1976

Pw~www
POPP

Laura Moses

a OO OB _ B  G G e
PAGEL LO LPP, LOG LOLERL IDOLE ORERLPPRLORLRRR IPD LERLDERLORLORIERLDPRLOIRIODRLODOD APRE PREP ARDEP LD LEELA LDPI ALSOP

a ma an mn nn nanan .eeeeiererereiwrerrwrrwrvrwrwrwrovwvoewewwevwvevwuvwvwwvwvevwvvwvevwwwvwvwvwvwvwvtvetweweoveoOoCeOOrOrrrr rrr rrr”
OOOO EOP DP POP OD OPODP POPP ODP DPD DPD PRPRP RPP APPrAPrAPAPPrRPRBPPBPPBERBABPRPRPPRPRPrRRDPRPrARPrAPrAPPPBPrALPrMPPrABPPrAPPr “Beer eee

© First Union National.

DAVIDSON

