the davidsonian

February 6, 1976

ae

Cuckoo /ands powerful statement

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

When Ken Kesey's novel about a
rebel in an insane asylum appeared in
1962, America had not yet been
shaken by the trauma of a prolonged
war in Southeast Asia, and a zealous
campaign for human rights at home.
Consequently, there is some irony in
the fact that an effort had to be made
to keep the film version from
being ‘‘outdated.** The idealism of the
Sixties, which the novel exemplifies,
is now, for better or worse, considered
old-fashened.

The film version of One Flew Over
the Cukoo's Nest, directed by Milos
Forman, is usually faithful to Kesey’s
intentions, but, at the same time, is
true to the mood of the Seventies,
with its attendant cynicism.

Kesey's novel, while for the most
part self-disciplined, was occasionally

heavy-handed in portraying the sense .

of “mission” felt by its main charac-
ter. Forman’s film version, however,
with a screenplay by Lawrence Hau-
ben and Bo Goldman, tends to err the
other way.

In the early parts of the film
especially, one gets the sense that he
is merely watching a con man on the
loose in a mental hospital. The
patients, who were always givena
basic sensed of dignity in Kesey’s
novel, often become comic foils: the
viewer laughs at their weirdness,
which is in exact opposition to the
film’s intent.

Friday, February 6, 1976

This first part of the film is
pleasant, well-played comedy. How-
ever, just as the electro-shock treat-
ments jolt Randel McMurphy, the
particular scene jolts the film out. of
its shallowness, and from then on,
Forman’s hand is firm, his purpose
clear, and his results devestating.

The effect of the ending is as fully
powerful as should be expected;
Forman seems to have captured that
part of Kesey’s work which trans-
cends the Sixties, the Seventies, or
any other era. ;

This is, in no small part, due to the
efforts of the actor. Jack Nicholson
is perfectly cast as McMurphy, the
work farm convict who feigns mental
illness so that he can finish out his
sentence in the ‘‘easy life’’ of an
insane asylum.

Nicholson’s very presence in the
film eases the task of ‘‘updating’’ the

Bandwagon

All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries
3 pm Swimming: Augusta Augusta, Ga.
4pm Phi-Delta Basketball Marathon Johnston Gym
7pm American Contract Bridge League Morrison Room

Scholarship Competition

8&10:30 pm’ Pop Film: ‘“‘Catch 22”

9&10:30 pm Coffeehouse: Marian Perkins Band

Saturday, February 7, 1976
All Day

Graphics by Butler and Malone

Love Auditorium
900 Room

Stowe Galleries

One Flew Over
the Cuckoo’s Nest

story: he emerged as an actor of
major reputation from Easy Rider,
one of the most important “‘message”’
films of the late Sixties, but he
portrayed a character who was in
direct opposition to that idealism, a
liberal but cynical Southern lawyer.

Cynicism comes easily to Nichol-
son, but so does a radiant humanism.
These combine with the easy confi-
dence that always characterize Nich-
olson’s roles to create a highly
effective McMurphy.

His accomplishment is even more
notable considering the rather weak
structure which Hauben and Gold-
man give him. His nemesis is Nurse
Ratched, a character brought beau-
tifully to life by Louise Fletcher.
Fletcher’s performance, like Rat-
che’s personality, is of constant qual-
ity throughout, and_ this show is
one of the strongest uniting factors in

what is a somewhat fragmentary
film.

The supporting roles, mostly pat-
ients, are also brought off well.
Particularly notable are. Brad Dourif
as the insecure Billy Bibbit, whose

\ attempts to gain some sort of

Aconfidence in himself lead to the
climax of the film; and Will Sampson
4 as Chief Bromden, the narrator of
f Kesey’s novel and the most trium-
phant figure in the film.

Nicholson and Sampson’s inter-
scenes in the recreation compound
across as strongly as in the book, the
scenes in the recreation compound
where McMurphy tries to teach the
chief the finer points of basketball.

The film was shot on location at
Oregon State Hospital, and; although
the claustrophopic trauma of the
patients’ situation does not come
across as strongly as in the book, the
maze of cages and doors, and the
sterility of the entire compound
contribute to the feeling of depres-
sion.

The photography was supervised
by Haskell Wexler, one of the best in
the business, and is effective with its
quick changes of focus and unusual
angles. The pastoral feeling which
Wexler gives to the opening and
closing shots of the film create a mood
of hopefullness and optimism.

Despite the problems of the early
sections, the film is a moving and
powerful statement on an old but still
important theme, the indomitable
nature of the human will.

we

4

1 pm Basketball: Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. ot “Leon Venable

Thursday, February 12, 1976

LPL GRO GI IOLOLIDOBD RA °LIOPPrRIELORABODPRE PP PLD LP Pr LP LPP ree

‘
a i na ee ee i in en i i i i i i i i i i i ii i il il i i ee

All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries >
Sunday, February 8, 1976 10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall ;
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries 10am Lecturer: Prof. William Morton Honors Center ;
“The Canadian Identity’’ :
7pm Drama Workshop: ‘‘Queens of France’”’ Hodson Hall ;
Monday, February 9, 1976 and ‘‘A Long Christmas Dinner’’
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries 8 pm Fine Film: ‘‘The Anderson Platoon/ Love Auditorium
TBA Staley Lecturer: Dr. Stuart Henry Kon Tiki” 7
Duke professor and author TBA Coffeehouse: Kathy Black & Catesby Jones 900 Room
Ce Bee See eee eee Te omit ee ern Ney
Tuesday, February 10, 1976 ;
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries $ DER
19am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
IZ pm Share-It-With- Your-Brother Meal Banquet Hall >}
4pm Swimming: Appalachian Boone, N.C. $
4pm Military History Documentary Green Meeting Room @
Film Series 4 HAPPY HOUR
4.30 pm Smal] Group Leader’s Meeting Morrison Room $
7 pm Worship Service DCPC ? a
7 30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Banquet Hall 3 THURS 8:30 z 1 0:00
Safety Course ; FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00
2 .
Wednesday. February 11, 1976 > 25¢ DRAFT
gyi Wit Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries g
$087. Furs. “Search for Ulysses” Honors Center >
2 AMEE Women s Basketball: N.C. State Davidson $
mir guenernall VMI “y JohnstonGym 2
page Cotte-rnouse Kathy Black & Catesby Jones 900 Room $ WINE BY GLASS, BOTTLE, OR CARAFE.
ee cnn irrnnnannnnwrrrrinnnt

