November 5, 1976

happens. ' \is column was

gins oc mage dst
concerning the workings of the SGA
Senate this year.

Rather than giving a week by week
account of Senate activities, October
events will be presented as a whole.

ly and yearly objectives, and each
makes progress reports at

periodic
Monday night Senate meetings.

purpose of the Student Government
Association: serving as mediator
between the students and the col-
lege’s faculty and administration,
primarily;in an advisory capacity.
These people include: President, Bo
Baskin; Vice President, Steve Cuffe;
Seniors, Tony Snow, Joe Logan, Jim
Clark, Carol Connor, Lynne Keener,
Dana English; Juniors, Will Miller,
Rick Rauck, David Tinkler, Clark
Candler, Phil Caine, Kevin Taylor;
Sophomores, Guy DiCenzo, Bruce
Brown, Ralph Yielding, Lynn Lang-
ley, Percy Badham, Randy Haynes,
Hans Watford, Carter Todd, Sam

Tony Snow and Steve Cuffe are the
co-chairmen of the Communications

mentioned

previously and also deals with WDAV
and The Davidsonian, the two most
important institutions of campus
Perhaps the most thrilling episode
(if one can call it that) in the SGA last
month was a question-and-answer
session with H. Edmunds White, the
Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid, on October 18. Mr. White made
an address to rebut and clarify the
information presented in The David-

The major objectives established in Twenty-eight Senators. and five- Crawford; Freshmen, Bob Lapple,

the regular Monday night meetings plus “civilians” head up or serve on Bill Peeples, John Stiefel, Rob Hol- sonian the week prior to the meeting.
include: 1) the Communications Pro- these committees, fulfilling the main meg, Taine Alison, Nancy Catron. He explained that in the previous two
is school years that the optimum num-

So much for cures for insomnia. ber of students had not been reached.

Present Community
holds stake in new
college diversity

Davidson College is designed to be a market-place for ideas.
Toward this goal it is important that the college provide its
students with a situation in which a number of different ideas
can flourish, Much lip service has been paid to diversifying the
student body, to increasing the value of the Davidson
Experience by admitting students from many different
backgrounds and with different ideas.

The Student Recruiters program to be implemented this
Thanksgiving break by the Admissions Office is a significant
step toward realizing a more diverse student body. It correctly
identifies a need and provides a system by whichthe need can
be filled. The question we ask is: As we have perhaps arrived at
a method of admitting more and better students from different
backgrounds, are we not now responsible for ‘carefully eying
the school we intend to admit them to?

Davidson College has one black professor. Though having
been co-educational for four full years, the college is only
beginning to awaken to the various athletic, medical, and
social needs of its womehi.
little significant change in the last ten years, and almost no
change since the end of the Vietnam War. The policy of-
Christian Tenure, often maligned but steadfastly held to,
protects only those professors who are actively affiliated with
a Christian church. The president of the college.is always a
Presbyterian. Black Week at Davidson, supposedly a week of
ptésentations dedicated to the preservation of black culture
here, is characteristically a time for blacks who have been
successful on lecture tours to white audiences to make one
more stop and say the same things.

, hese elements of the college serve to stifle some of the
possibilities for exchanging ideas. In too many cases the

(see POSSIBILITIES, page 6)

the daudsonian

MATIDOW COVINGTON: iicivicce sc cee bese 0 0 Vee paced Editor
TIER ra PCr eC er bos 4 abies ecarpeees Business Manager
(MMM Sale sca. s wterueeee Photography Editor
Bee A. 6 sb iss 0 0 6 908 oi bob alot Production Manager
PEN Fy i5s dea aie cle Secon eans Editorial Page Editor
Cathy Landis & Dave Keller..... ae See Executive editors
\Sruce Holladay & Amanda Hall............... Sports Editors
seman Collins & Philip Duncan .......... Asst. News Editors
Mani ook caacces calves Advertising Manager
I cies N ico nce ce eecs sce’ Circulation Manager

&G@rced weekly during the school year by students of David-
ge. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

# .¥ress all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218," @ y, N.C. Yearly “subscription rate: $6.00.

urriculum has undergone very |

The all-new Communications Pro-
gram is the SGA’s ‘“‘Consumer Action
Group’’, treating all students as«
consumers of a college education.
With a comprehensive fee of

$4,390.00 , the SGA feels that Dav-

idson students have a right to their
money’s worth, and this new program
is designed to help insure just that.
Operating in three-week cycles, Sena-
tors will attempt to visit their consti-
tuents once every three weeks, record
complaints, refer to stan-
ding committees, and return solutions
or suggestions to the students at the
end of each three-week period.

Committee Looks
For Solutions

The problems facing the four

respectively.

seek to solve the complication created
by the admission of three hundred
additional students per annum. At
present; the Housing subcommittee is
investigating new sources of off-cam-
pus housing, while still reserving
sufficient dormitory space for all
students who desire a dormitory
room. The Eating subcommittee is
currently going through various ad-
ministrative channels to open Rusk
House next year as a Patterson Court
eating house.

The Athletics committee, chaired
by Kevin Taylor and Bruce Brown, is
working in conjunction with the
Athletics department to find reason-
able solutions to difficulties in Club
sports, gym use, and check-out of
athletic equipment.

The Committee for Faculty Evalua-
tion by Students is self-explanatory
in title. It seeks to aid the admini-
stration in improving and maintain-
ing the high quality of the Davidson
faculty, and it is chaired by Carol
Connor and Joe Logan.

The Educational Program Develop-
ment committee, headed by Dave
Tinkler and Phil Caine, is similar to
the Faculty Evaluation Committee,
only it is not limited to evaluating
instructors. Welcoming suggestions
from all students, this committee
hopes to work with the faculty for
better classroom oe and other

To avoid under-enrollment for the
1976-77 school year, White accepted
more men and women than usual,
hoping to attain this year "8 optimum
number of 110 women and 280 men.
Instead, more candidates responded
than anticipated. Because they sent
in admissions deposits before or soon
after the deadline, they were accepted
rather than turned away, resulting in
the opening of Julia Johnson House
for freshmen men and the placement
of four freshmen:women on Second
Little. The statement made by Direc-
tor of Student Housing Scotty Nich-
olls that he arbitrarily over-admitted
these students because of superior
qualifications was claimed to be
false.

White made the following state-
ment in response to questioning:» 1)
the number of students to be admit-
ted annually is determined by the
President and the Board of Trustees,
not the Admissions Office; 2) there is
some interoffice communication be-

. tween Admissions and Housing, but

it lacks formal impact; 3) the opti-
mum numbers for this year’s fresh-
man class would have been in accor-
dance with the number of on-campus
housing spaces available; 4) college

- finances suffer when every available

housing unit is not in use, for tuition
inflow is not stable nor is it a
maximum when units are unoccupied;
5) by expanding from 1000 to 1300
students, the college does not increase
net revenue, for college endowment
remains fixed and must be spread thin

to cover the needs of additional
students.

At the November 1 meeting, the
SGA approved the expenditure of
approximately $180.00 to purchase
new response sheets for the Commun-
ications Program.

A motion was carried granting
approval to a system of selecting
members to the Media Board. A
proposal submitted by Hans Watford
and Percy Badham provides for the
choosing of the student members who
will be represented on the Board.

Finally, the SGA announced pub-
licly this week that it supports the
Extended Studies Program, which is
currently in danger of being canned
by the Educational Policy committee
headed by Dr. Frontis Johnston. The
SGA urges the student body to.
support this program, also, as ex-
plained in detail in Volume One,
Number Two of the SGA Newsletter.
