April 1, 1977

g

‘-hman hall compared to other schools

PBELL

er

itly houses
dorms as-

and the College of William and
Mary. Most of these dorms are
single-sexed, although Wil-
liams College in Massachu-

admitted there are disadvan-
tages to separate housing but
feels the freshman dorm offers
a needed supportive environ-

strongly disagree with all
freshman housing,” he said.
‘All it does is to continue
student adolescence for ano-

ceive one week of training.
Most other schools offered
‘‘crash’’ courses of two or
three days.

hour week and a slight reduc-
tion in rent. Wake Forest
resident advisors receive eight
monthly installments totalling

y tofresh- setts houses its freshmen to- ment. ther year.”’ Mr. Jankey of Williams $600 per year. Depending
’ of seven — gether in coed dorms. A supportive environment Swarthmore, Sewanee and,-College said their junior advi- upon the cost of the resident
d that such Dr. John Morgan, Dean of is what Mr. L. W. Smith, Duke scatter their freshmen sor program is a self-per- hall where one lives, this
at Vander- Students for Resident Hall Housing Director of Duke among upperclass dorms. petuating system: “Their dut- amount can be as much as
ake Forest, Life at William and Mary, University, fears. ‘I myself With the exception of Se- ies are not rigidly defined, $740. all

selor selection takes
uttee’s subjective slant

wanee, the seven schools sur-
veyed had some type of hall
counselor program. ‘‘ Resident
advisor’’ was the common
term for these students. Mrs.
Leake of Wake Forest said,
‘We let the term ‘counselor’
die a long time ago since they
really do more advising.”’
Unlike the situation at Dav-
idson, these resident advisors

although they’re supposed to
be available. We have no
formal training program. They
just come a day early in the
fall to learn college referral
people.”’

Of the six schools, Williams
College was the only one that
did not offer its resident ad-
visors some type of monetary
compensation. According to

William and Mary pays its
advisors $600 a year plus the
cost of one meal per day for a
five day week. According to
Morgan this free meal encour-
ages the advisors to eat with
the freshmen. At Swarthmore
monetary compensation is in
terms of free room—about
$900 a year.

The largest compensation of

HALL grow,” he said. who apply. reside in all dorms. Their Jankey, however, Williams those schools questioned oc-

iditor Although ‘‘in many ways “The hall counselor is in duties vary from a regulatory does give its R.A. “a bit of a curs at Vanderbilt. According

‘ays been a~ (the selection) is a subjective some ways a person in the role as at Wake Forest to one break in rooming. They are to Mr. K. C. Pottes, Director

chosenthe thing,” Terry cited the criteria middle, because he has to involving counseling and dorm allowed to have two peopleina of the Housing Divison,

aid Dean of the committee uses to choose represent the college while at maintenance as at Vanderbilt. three-man suite.’’ “room and a very small salary

ry. “That is hall counselors. the same time he has to relate Training programs also At Duke University under- comes to about $1400 for a
“I guess one of the things to his freshmen who have. vary. Duke had the most ex- graduate assistants receive resident advisor. Head resi-

Terry, As- wetry to discern is will this different values.”’ tensive; resident advisors re- $2.35 per hour for an 11-13 dents receive $2200.’’

' Students person take the time to get to

Director of know his freshmen,” he said. , z pis

licholls, the “And we look for people who Interview with counselors exposes varied opinions

for the up- _we believe generally have good : Dene

ve students judgment. This is a para- 8 ®

ae ee Hall Counselors review experience

hall counse- The committee also looks

Terry. : for dependability, maturity,

Race ee and rapeeidaaed or subcon- By BETSY THOMAS ance lies between being the with ‘‘the best thing I’ve done the wrong stuff; they didn’t

pes capaci dh ch) sott sda ies ba Staff Writer needed friend and the needed _ here.”’ teach much about coping with

of examples
n learn and

—at least people who have the
facility to sit down and meet

Re-entering a freshman hall
is possible for those juniors

example. Deciding whether
and how to impress ‘‘your own

A junior year spent abroad
on a freshman hall may be as

problems like bad grades,
said Jeff Metzel. Continuing

peep ies. Lila ; selected as hall counselors. standards” on hallmates illus- foreign as one onthe Conti- this idea, Jane found that
; sas applicants’ Mave oer “Through the looking glass’’ trates the variable nature of nent. Jane Perkins found the ‘when real problems came up,
es extra-curricular activities iS of this position, a hall may be hall counseling, for which ‘‘isolation from your other yougo pretty much on your
cluded: ,also taken into consideration, 4, influential for the juniors ‘you can’t be trained,’”’ com- friends’’ a drawback, which own intuition.’’ Another lack
helped according to Terry. vv do now as when they were fresh- mented Roger Brown. was countered by the ‘‘new was few previous ‘‘hall coun-
! upper- also look for someone who will men. The personal growth friendships on the hall’. The  selors to tell their mistakes
e made be able to help the freshmen an As mediator, ‘‘referral ser- marked in Steve Justus’ retro- correspondent growth in both and what they wished they
fy hall some extent tohave some kind vice” to campus activities and spective statement, ‘I would freshmen and friendships had done,” said Steve.
. for the of social life.” e jack-of-all-trades on the hall,a not make the same mistake makes the year rewarding. The self-knowledge acquired
counse- Grades also are considered jal] counselor is more than an with people again,” is wide- ‘Getting people to the point on the return to freshman
3PE’s,”’ by the committee, _ Sort of an authority figure, a proxy par- spread among the 1976-7 where they feel comfortable’ dorms is a reward supple-
ight me unspoken kind of thing is that ent to a brood of 23. ‘‘We’re counselors. ‘‘Working togeth- at Davidson and know others, mented by the hoped ‘‘in-
ms with we ordinarily won't pick some- jot here to mold people or eras a pair” with aroommate while seeing them adjust to fluence on the freshmen in
counse- body who is a real poor create twelve ideal Davidson chosen for contrast has been a__ living in a-group, has contri- living at Davidson,’’ Roger
eae | student because we feel that a students, we try to help them = ‘‘great’’ experience forJane buted to the worth of the Brown's wish. Now knowing
or as a hall counselor should set a adjust and guide them ina Perkins. ‘‘I came out a lot experience-for Roger Brown. _ the time and energy required
balloon good example with study hab- positive direction,” said Bruce more,’’ said Meg Campbell, Briefing on the counselor to be a hall counselor, they'd
1y hall its,” said Terry. ; _ Holliday. who broke sophomore routine retreat weekend “trained usin do it again.
il acts,” ‘‘We were conscious this The role requires you to
selor to year of trying to provide some ‘help whenever you can, that ‘i
[ can’t diversity among our hall coun-’ is part of being a hallmate and rk O ut h 66 al IJ
my hall selors,’’ he said. “That is 4 friend,’ added Miller see WO weld. S S ary
ertainly limited by the kinds of people \cClintock. A delicate bal-
‘ [Continued from page 1] of Students Will Terry said, ‘‘I they feel that strongly, the

seems that I end up working
double for little pay. They
could apply the money to our
frants or work/study and
really lessen the specific hours
of work.”’

“You lose sleep, study time,
food, and then there are the
problems you never dreamed
of that happen,’’ added one.

The only monetary reimbur-
sement given to the freshman
halls is $50 at the beginning of
the year for a phone plus $35
per term for ‘“‘expenses’’.

“The $35 doesn’t help very

much,’’ commented one hall.

counselor.

‘If they are going to say
that we are staff members of
the Dean of Students’ Office,
then it seems that we should
be paid as such,’’ observed

have not been informed of any
change in policy for next
year.”

When asked why something
can’t be done about this policy

Dean Terry responded, ‘‘If

Add a new international
dimension to your
college career witha

SEMESTER
AT SEA

The S.S. Universe sails
Sept. 7, 1977, on a circle-

Africa voyage. Join us.
FREE COLOR VIEWBOOK

Write or phone INSTITUTE
FOR SHIPBOARD
EDUCATION, Taj Mahal
Bldg., P.O. Box 2488, Laguna

students can try, but with 83
applicants for the positions, in
spite of no pay, it’s going to be
hard to convince the President
that the policy needs chang-

ing.

Hills CA 92653. (714)581-6770

oe other.
role to freshman nother Attn: UG Divisi

|
nnings When contacted about the
(ore 9s) hall counselor pay policy Dean

BRUCE HOLLIDAY moves from his hall counselor
advisor.

