March 25, 1977

A The Davidsonian

Treatment of budget

de-emphasizes people;
demoralizes students

We have a beautiful guest house. We have expensive
sidewalks. We will have a three-hole practice golf range. We
will have a once again remodelled Wilson Dining Room for
guests. We have a beautifully landscaped campus with

tree properly placed. ’

We also have dorms which need renovated lounges and
bathrooms. The women’s bathrooms have a continual shortage
of paper towels. The Infirmary needs new beds and a
microscope. The Davidson National no longer exists. The
equipment for student physical education lacks funds for
expansion. .

The situation here lacks balance. What we have is an
understated attitude which puts physical appearance, big-time
athletics, and capital-raising projects on a higher priority level
than the needs of students and faculty. Economically the
attitude makes sense. But it is demoralizing to the people who
live and work here.

Our emphasis has been drawn away from people. One of the
most evident examples is faculty compensation. Since 1969
Davidson students have.undergone a tuition increase of $1240.
Only $211 of that increase has gone into faculty salaries. So
Davidson students are paying for things other than instruction.
Both faculty and students suffer.

Another interesting figure shows how expenditures for
student services have decreased from 5.48 percent of the
budget in 1964-65 to 3.99 percent in 1975-76.

And the exorbitant athletic budget offers $80 of its funds to
basketball and football leaving only $20 to the rest of the
sports and P.E. :

The problem is not that we have no list of priorities. If we
did, bathrooms and microscopes would never be acquired. If
we put all funds into the top four priorities (Martin Science
building, new arts building, field house, and a new eating
facility) the “smaller” needs would be ignored.

No we do not need a list of priorities. If we had it we would
spend money only on the top four priorities. The smaller
expenditures need to be.taken just as seriously.

We need an attitudinal change. We need to put the money
allocated for “smaller expenditures” into a priority list where
we would spend money for projects we need like beds for the
Infirmary rather than things we'd like to have such as a
redecorated Wilson Room.

Certainly guests and alumni are impressed but they do not
have to live here. We do and we are frustrated when we see a
beautiful outside rotting on the inside.

We suggest Davidson should stop playing with luxuries until
it recognizes its needs.

f

The Davidsonian

Pe Tp TLE? Taye | Bg a a ee er ae e Editor
RM Gi care rgd bhiie tiie osha kw ore ke Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
PU CCT O07 a aie a ae Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle ......,.... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
PTT TUT] | a gegen re arenes areca arene Production Manager
PO icp feet ek ov b's ee be omeg Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis ............... Advertising Editors
GUNTER art Fic s-o-e 0-0 0 ob oes cee Circulation Manager
WEIN occ 5 a5) pin 608.656 49-0 6c pe oh ora Business Manager
Jt 9 1) | i ae eamrarrenn mr Cartoonist
Met 505 Vas oh sp a Asst. Projects Editor
CIMTMTEI YONI) 6:h5 uci 6 esp occioiecocaed cb 6d ba Asst. Features Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box |
218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Opinion

Yo

By THOM YOUNG
Guest Columnist

When confronted with having to
explain where students fit into the
governance of Davidson College I
found two major avenues for student
input. :

The first place students can be a
major force in representing their peers
and influencing the college policy is
on the various Advisory Councils and
Faculty Committees.

Faculty Committees such as Pre-
med and Pre-law provide services to
students interested in the related
occupations. The Advisory Councils
cover every aspect of Davidson, from
Intercollegiate Athletics to the lib-
rary. These councils are made up of at
least one administrator, several facul-
ty members, and several students.

Let me quote the Davidson College
Constitution (Article 4, Section 2,
Paragraph b) concerning the Advi-
sory Council on Finance, Personnel
and Development:

“Prior to submission by the Presi-
dent to the Trustees of the annual
budget and of any other substantial
proposal in respect to fiscal, personnel

‘or development matters (other than

matters relating to individual com-
pensation), the budget or other
proposal is submitted to the Council
for its information.’

Sentences just like the above are
found in the description of the
function of each Advisory Council.
The President of the college is
required to inform the specific Advi-
sory Council concerned with any

' proposals that he plans to submit to

the Trustees.

Students that are not selected (or
elected) to serve on any of these
councils please find out who does
serve on the councils and share your
thoughts with them. The list of the
new council and committee members
will be published in The Davidsonian
as soon as the Senate is through its
appointing process.

This brings me to the second place
students have vital input into the
governance of Davidson. The Student
Government Senate is concerned with

ung channels action

every facet of the college and is
inherently a part of the governance
system.

The Senate Visitations are a way
for every student to express his/her
ideas, suggestions or complaints and
also a way for the Senators to let their
constituents know what’s going on in
student government.

Voice your thoughts to your Sena-
tors. But be careful not to burden the
Senator with complaints that can be
better handled by you going straight
to the person that is responsible for
your problem.

If you don’t know who to talk to
about creaking pipes for instance ask
your Senator. He/she has a list of
who to go to for any problem.

The Senate acts as a lobbying
group with the faculty and adminis-
trators. Whenever a project is begun,
for example course evaluations, not
only must the Senators work on the
evaluation itself but they must also
lobby with the faculty to get the
evaluation institutionalized. The Sen-
ate tries to keep close ties with the
faculty.

The Senate’s budget is also a
leverage to aid any project that is
deemed useful by the Senate. In the
past month the Senate has matched
funds for the two new televisions in
the Infirmary, helped to send two
Davidson students to a Biology sym-
posium in Washington, and helped
fund the weather-proofing of several
of the low rent houses in Davidson.

The Senate has the power of
appointing over forty students to the
various Advisory Councils and Facul-
ty Committees. These appointees are
responsile to the Senate and at any
time with due reason the Senate can
remove a student from any commit-
tee.

The last powerful role the Senate.
plays is that of keeping the President
of the Senate informed about stu-
dents’ concerns. Through the Presi-
dent of the Student Body the Senate
has a voice straight to the Trustees.

Let your Senators know how you
feel about any aspect of Davidson
from coeducation to Martin Science
Building and insure that the Presi-
dent of the Student Body reflects
your feelings to Dr. Spencer and the
Trustees.

I encourage everyone to get invol-
ved in one way, or another with the
governance of the college. The Senate
is appointing people to the Advisory
Councils right now.

If you are interested in working on
one of these tell your Senator. Also if
you are interested in helping with any
of the Senate’s projects let us know.
Remember, elections-next fall. -
