October 21, 1977

on campus

Opinion

-Community, not College,
holds Christian commitment

By JAY SILVER
Staff Writer

The Christian commitment of Davidson College is perhaps
most visible when one looks out from his Chambers classroom
window and spies DCPC across the lawn, or when news of the
college’s tenure policy makes the Washington Post. One could
even choose to search for the meaning of ‘‘Christian
commitment”’ by counting up the number of ordained ministers.
But such visibility does not constitute a viable Christian
commitment.

Similarly, Christian commitment resides within the policies,
programs, and financial stewardship of the college only in an
indirect manner. It is the Christian commitment of the college
community, and not the institution itself, in which this
commitment lies. People—administration, faculty, and stu-

Javidson’ Ss “new era”

' neard people say that this
'* statement of enaction is no-
» thing more than the old policy
* in disguise.”

Professor of History William
; Brown Patterson:

» “JT think it’s a bit worrisome

. that the term ‘professing and
. practicing’ Christians is@used

as if someone is going to be
‘ checking to see who is ‘profes-
* sing and practicing’. I’ve nev-
er liked the idea that there
would be that kind of surveil-
lance of the faculty.’’

“T wish they hadn’t used the
#term ‘preponderant majority’
= because that must have some
sort of numerical value. And
Bas soon as you get into dealing
f with the problem on that level
you inevitably run into the
whole issue of quotas.

Professor of History David

not to appoint solely on the
basis of his or her religion —
which is discrimination.

‘There is also a potential
inquisitorial streak in this
statement—'‘it is appropriate
to inquire’ —it seems to me we
still have a religious require-
ment (for hiring).

“Nothing is said here about
whether a non-Christian could
be tenured. It might very well
be the case that non-Chris-
tians might be appointed to
the faculty —a few —and yet
that no one would receive
tenure.”’

By-Law vs. statement

The dissimilarities between
the By-Law and the enacting
statement are iminediately
evident.

The By-Law speaks in
sweeping terms of ‘‘educa-
tional service’’ and states that
we hire Christians and non-
Christians. The Christians
should ‘‘understand and re-
spond to the implications of
their commitment as Chris-
tians.’’ The non-Christians
must ‘work with respect’’ ‘for
and ‘‘live in harmony..”

The terse and tactless enac-
ting statement does not place
christians and non-Christians
on equal terms. It seeks a
“preponderant majority’ of
the former, and demands in
no uncertain terms that they
“profess and practice."’

The Trustees clearly think
they have some special know-

Enacting Statement

It is the firm intention of the Trustees that Davidson College

retains its identity as a Christian community in higher
education and that the twin goals of academic excellence and the
development of Christian character and values be vigorously

The pursuit of academic excellence and the establishment of a
Christian commitment depends in the main on the character,
commitment and performance of the people who make up the
academic community. Therefore, the Trustees believe that a
preponderant majority of the teaching faculty and administra-
tive staff continue.to be professing and practicing Christians. In
the implementation of this policy it is appropriate to inquire as
to the religious faith and practice of those who are to join the

While it is intended that some non-Christians will be
appointed to posts at Davidson, it is important that they be
sympathetic toward and supportive of Davidson's self-under-

rards the Rite:
Beery ct ‘*‘What is a ‘preponderant
teally Gry: majority’, or to put it in a
pons negative sense, ‘How many
gee Jews is too many Jews?’ If
iaceaiee. you can have one or two Jews,
ieved tagk it seems to me that ultimately
ft behind ee fourth or fifth Jew might try
fang re to join the faculty.
aul ‘*Will the administration
‘opinion. ‘then say, ‘Sorry, we have too
ona many Jews already’? (or Cath-
ae olics or Buddhists or Mos-
y lems, etc.).
“(The enacting statement)

seems to have set up a de facto
phy Rob: quota system, and at some
oonderant point a decision will be made
ling facul-
‘ion staff
rofessing
tians’ and
inquire as
aith and
ho are to
ie staff’ — pursued.
these re-
itrary to
tulty felt
By-Law.
, I would
had here
lard. We
W
Hi oe faculty or the staff of the college.
' that is
e.
1g state-

lard. I've

standing as set forth in the Purpose of the college.

| dge of the manner in which a
Christian should respond to
his commitment.

Note the condescension and
haughtiness of ‘‘while it is
intended that some non-Chris-
tians will be appointed..’’
Isn’t it big of us to take in
non-Christians? But wait--we
don’t want them to ‘‘work
with respect’’ and ‘‘live in
harmony.’’ The enacting
statement says we want them
to be ‘‘supportive.’’ The differ-
ece between ‘‘work with re-
spect’’ and ‘‘support”’ is vast.

Does the enacting state-
ment set up a vague quota
system or suggest tokenism?
Does it bear an inquisitive
streak and a religious require-
ment for hiring? Are we at
Davidson living a double stan-
dard?

If Davidson professors, who
understand the pecularities
and uniqueness of Davidson,
are wary of the enacting
statement, it seems certain
that prospective faculty mem-
bers unfamiliar with Davidson
will be uncomfortable with it.

Impact at Davidson

Since the enacting state-
ment is a directive from the
Trustees to Dr. Spencer, it is
reasonable to assume that
College officials will embrace
its spirit when interviewing
cnadidates for faculty posi-
tions.

Maydole worries how a
prospective faculty member
will be interrogated ‘‘as to his
religious faith and practice’.

He does not believe the
college should “‘inquire into
what a person personally pro-
fesses and practices as far as

[See STATEMENT, page 12]

dents— make this academic institution what it is. And the
Christian Faith is essentially relational in nature, addressing
itself to you and me as individuals, not to rules, regulations, and
by-laws. To speak of the Christian commitment of an institution
often reflects an attempt to depersonalize Christianity. By
keeping it at arm’s length we avoid being confronted with the
difficult questions the gospel asks about the quality of my
relationships with others and with God.

Let me interject here that I am not advocating that we should
ignore the consequences of the college’s new hiring policy nor
the college’s past (present?) lack of responsiveness to local social
problems. Instead, I am simply placing a greater priority on the
informal means of expressing a Christian commitment rather
than emphasize the more formal and structured ways in which
we attempt to express such a commitment.

What is Christian commitment? There is probably a tendency
to assert that it is a commitment to certain ideals or values, such
as reverence, justice, temperance, charity, etc. Yet most of
these ideals are the same as those embraced by Plato, a host of
other religions, and the man on the street. To refer to something
or someone as ‘‘Christian’’ with no intention of using it as a
means of differentiation gives the word ‘Christian’ no real
meaning. Therefore I think Christian ideas, not ideals,
correspond more appropriately to Christian commitment, for it
is from the ideas of the Christian faith that its ideals are derived.
The Good News of Jesus, in order to be truly news, does not
simply present us with some goals to aim for, but it also tells us
something definite about who we are, about who God is, and
about who our neighbor is.

Take, for example, the following statement by Jesus:

Look at the birds of the air: they neither soi nor reap nor
gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are
you not of more value than they? And which of you by being
anxious can add one cubit to his span of life? And why are you
anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they
grow; they neither toil nor spin; yet I tell you, even Solomon in
all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so
clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow
is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O
men of little faith? CFR

This passage from Matthew 6 claims that our worth as
persons is intrinsic and is in no way dependent upon our grades
in Biology 31 or Math 25; nor is it dependent upon whether or
not we have a date for the weekend. Instead, we have the option
of accepting one another for what we are, knowing that as
individuals we have something to offer each other. On a small
campus where student relationships are often hurried and
superficial, where faculty members struggle with resentment
and even bitterness at times, can we say that our Christian
commitment is more than nominal or, at the best, half- hearted?

Probably not—and I’m including myself.

The passage quoted above leads to one other dimension of
Christian commitment:

Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘‘what shall we eat?” or
‘What shall we drink?’’ or ‘‘What shall we wear?’’ For the
Gentiles seek all these things; and your heavenly Father knows
that you need them all. But seek first this kingdom and his
righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you as well.

“But seek first...’’ Our relationship with God takes priority
over all other relationships, and it is an essential part of these
relationships. There can be little wholeness and not enough
forgiveness unless we engage in an honest, struggling search for
intimacy with God. Christian commitment concerns both the
quality of my relationships with people and the quality of my
relationship with God.

My intention here has not been to proselytize but I have
meant to give some relevance to the term ‘Christian
commitment’’. Nor have I intended to give a comprehensive
exposition of Christianity. I do hope, however, that by sharing
these thoughts with the campus, a more honest and thus fruitful
dialogue about Davidson and its Christian commitment wil
result.

Denomination
Presbyterian
Catholic
Methodist
Baptist

Student religious affiliation

unofficial survey

1976-77
Percent Denomination Percent
34 Episcopalian 13
8 Lutheran 4
15 None 7
11 Other 8

