January 21, 1977

A. | The Davidsonian

pe ee Y ee ® . :
Seélf-selection stays

Davidson’s social life is abnormal. Few students deny it, yet
with the rise in fraternity membership and the issue over the
proposed women’s eating house, sentiment lies with
single-sex eating houses. The inconsistency reeks.

Given: The Patterson Court documents state a policy of
non-discriminating self selection. Trustee opinion and actual
practice support three all-male houses. The three houses
practice subtle discrimination.

Given: The women on campus feel this discrimination and
feel the need for a support group. They seek to solve the
problem with an all-female eating house.

Taking the purest stand a female eating house only refutes
the original Court policy on self-selection. Before we forget it,
maybe we should re-examine that policy.

On a campus as small as Davidson’s, co-educational eating
may be the best policy. So many students come here socially ©
retarded. They cannot communicate with members of the
opposite sex. Many cannot be merely friends with members of

the opposite sex. Instead they look upon each other as
something they date.

Freshman halls do enough to maintain this womb-line
security. The summer camp atmosphere does not force
students to deal realistically with their insecurities.

We do not need single-sex eating houses to intensify the
problem.

Bad precedent set

The reinstitution of the death penalty ran like a B-movie. The
news media has delved into Gilmore’s childhood, has analyzed
his psychological characteristics, has probed into the personal
life of his girlfriend.

We know Gilmore had an 1.Q. of over 120, that his last words
were, “Let's do it,” and several line-by-line descriptions of his
death. .

What we failed to remember in the midst of all the

sensationalism is that the death penalty is a reality once again.

It became a reality on the precident of a deranged man who
wanted to die.

We respect Gilmore’s desire to die rather than spend the rest
of his life in prison. But the irresponsibility of the press has ~
made a cult’hero out of him.

And the press would never have gotten away with it if the
American people did not want to hear about it. For some
reason they feed on the perversity of asensational story
without considering the real issue: Should capital punishment
be re-established?

The American people must form a consistent policy to deal
with.its criminals. They need to stop instead of evading this

responsibility by concentrating on personalities. They need to

start examining the consequences of capital punishment witn
a far-sighted perspective.
We hate to see that policy set by a “freak precident”, what
_ we should concern ourselves with is what the total impact this
bizarre “movie” will have on those sitting on death row today.

The Davidsonian

CO LERIVIS ooo. s cherie cc ee oe ce ve sn bu Seale Editor
MMII G05, 4-05 2191) vigsjaasss US Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Erica Gjersvik............ SERRA Features Editor.
IMTEMIEMETME, 6 9.0.5; p°) 6 oe 8 bi ceid 6 Oe gales ce eae Sports Editor
it) 0) | GARNER ARGS np Pane ar Se oc Editorial Page Editor
KOVR BOY es et Special Projects Editor
Pe eign oo Gacaceio's bee ete sat Production Manager
Amanda Hall & Chuck Kennon ............ Managing Editors
WGI hile sk coop oe ccd os ov eae Business Manager
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
KOVIN GRY irate sil ecelo scorn een Advertising Manager
CORP IGGMNON 6ciccvc cece cece veetevesawe Circulation Manager
Dennis McLawhorn...................055 Asst. News Editor
Charles Erwin ......... sit diate eV ae a Asst. Features Editor
Marshall Waddell ...................005 Asst. Sports Editor
WME SOONER Sess Fa kev ved bdacees 6 vue eae Cartoonist
ANN GOOF 606655. 0... cia wes Se Sales Ga Asst. Projects Editor

, Published weekly during the school year by students of David-

.80n College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C...

~ 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218,. Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate:$6.00.

Peeples abhors
college priorities

By STEVE PEEPLES
Editorial Columnist

If you’d like to set yourself think-
ing sometime, sit down and ponder
the priorities of Davidson spending.
We all understand that the college,
just like businesses and individuals,
is caught between inflation and
recession, and that everybody’s fin-
ancial situation is tough, but let’s
consider the allocation of funds for a
few minutes.

Last year, in a move that aroused
much furor, an over-abundance of
stale jokes, and little action, the
college decided to cut hall counselor
pay by about two-thirds.

The $300 per annum which hall
counselors received prior to °76-’77
was minute compared to compensa-
tion given at many schools.

_ According to a number of Davidson

hall counselors this sum managed to
put a dent in the expenses incurred by
wear and tear on cars, stereos, and
other personal belongings. Few seem-
ed to consider it as payment for their
time, nor did they expect that.

Okay, stop a second the next time
you head for the P.O. or Chambers.
Notice the new brick walks? Granted,
these are good cosmetic steps. But
how much labor cost went into this?

How much materials cost? Maybe not
much, maybe too much. But it’s an
example of a hardly necedsary ex-
pense following on the heels of a cut in
pay for some students who honestly
deserve it.

Another case in point is the
Davidson National Print and Draw-
ing Competition. This show was
putting us on the artistic map.

Our liberal arts college, instead of
simply analyzing and studying the
visual arts, was encouraging and
sponsoring living, new art. That,
damn it, is education. It was a real,
tangible sign of our commitment to an
art form in and of itself, a quantum
leap beyond the textbook.

And it was dropped.

But, situated not 50 yards away
from Cunningham Fine Arts Building
is the remodeled Guest House, a
lavishly decorated building by any-
one’s standards. I certainly agree
with having a good, comfortable
guest’ house. But the luxury of
Carnegie, especially in light of other
budget cuts, approaches obscenity.

Why?

Again, the problem of expense.

This paper reported a cost- of
$200,000 for renovation. Even a
portion of that would have been
adequate to continue the Davidson
National for some time to come.

Well, I guess my meaning by now
is pretty clear. There is one further
point, however, that needs to be made <
and that is if the administration
honestly feels that our funds are being
allocated to the best possible use,
se how about some consistency?

n't point to flimsy examples like
Williams to justify a cut, and don’t
mourn the passing of the National
because of lack of funds, and then
gloat over the opulence of the Guest
House.

At least admit your priorities,
okay?
