Letters to the Editor

The Davidsonian

5

Stagnation creeps in at Davidson

I am currently studying on the
JYA program here in West Germany.
The main reason for my current
presence here is that the program
afforded the opportunity to leave
Davidson—and receive college credit.
If I had not come here, I would have
transferred. Next year, I’ll be back. I
am not particularly happy about that
fact, especially in light of some recent
developments, but, for a variety of
reasons I'll be there. I write now
because my life here allows the
advantage of more objectivity at a
distance and because the thought of
returning scares me.

So why am I scared and dissatisfied
with Davidson? The answer is sim-
ple— Davidson is in the process of
stagnating. At the expense of the
students, the Administration is strip-
ping the College of its creative
influences. This applies to the degen-
eration of our Science building, to two
or our social science departments
which capitalize on note memorization
and multiple choice tests, the disap-
pearance of the Davidson National,
the removal of the Extended Studies
courses, the move to turn WDAV into
another programmed ROQ with stress
on the marvels of Davidson and
monetary priorities designed to keep

the facade looking good while the *

interior decays.

The chances for creative student
input are dying. We aren’t given the
opportunity to effect ourselves in
relation to the college. Our self-
development is channelled into get-
ting good grades, attending Patter-
son Court parties on weekends,
waiting for big weekends when there
is ‘‘really’’ something going on and
being nice little children.

I can’t do that to myself. I want to

feel as though I am a thinking force
who can take what the faculty has to
offer and shape it in terms of myself
and my society —not only in terms of
Davidson College. I want to express
myself intellectually and creatively.
I’m asking for a college that responds
to students as people and not to
trustees and money exclusively.

So what do I have?; a radio station
designed for Charlotte, a potential
golf course, a beautiful new house for
guests, a basketball team and a worn
out school with an old reputation for
academic excellence.

Thank Goodness, somebody
thought about JYA. This year has
forced me to think for myself,
examine my studies and my life in
terms of the world and allowed me to
express my personality.

Thank goodness for the Honors
Center which encourages independent
work and creativity and motivated me
to do a lot more learning than I had to.

These are two ways to circumvent
total stagnation but why does David-
son as a whole appear to be walking

backwards suffocating from the plas-
tic bag over its head? Some vital force

Prison reform needed

To the Editor:

Ona wintry day like this, during
World War II service as Military Aid
to the U.S. Ambassador in Beirut, I
was assigned as ‘‘Observer’’ at the
trial of two young alleged Nazi spies

accused of sabotage against the Allied |

Forces in the Middle East. The
all-day court martial took place in a
drafty dimly-lighted one-room school-
house in Northern Syria, and it soon
became obvious that the two prison-
ers would be convicted. One felt —like
something you could touch—the mis-
ery and complete despair of these two
young adults, one a German and the
other a Greek, both fellow humans.

During a short break in the trial,
while the military were ‘‘at ease’”’ (!?),
I found myself acting under some
strange compulsion, walking over to
the two doomed prisoners and giving
each of them a cigarette and a light.
They were sentenced to die before the
firing squad, and at dawn the
following morning the grisly execu-
tion was carried out.

Now, these many years later, I visit
a nearby State Prison unit three days
a week as a representative of the
extension service of a nearby com-
munity college. The project is eu-
phoniously called a “‘learning lab” for
social rehabilitation, and the host
agency is called, euphoniously, ““The
Department of CORRECTION” of
the North Carolina Division of Pris-
ons. I don’t offer the prisoners
cigarettes; these caged human beings
at least have their own cigarettes—
they can buy them out of the pittance
they are allowed to keep from the
actual worth of their labor to the
State and to private business inter-
ests through what is called, also
euphoniously, ‘‘work release”. What

On occasion, I have presented
audio-filmstrip ‘“‘mini courses’’ (e.g.,
on ‘‘How To Prepare for a Job
—_Interview’’); but the lack of quiet —
physical facilities and the highly
transitory nature of the os unit (a

processing-and-transfer function)
made this practically impossible.
What is (euphoniously!) called an
“educational trailer’, bought with
taxpayers’ money, sits idle in the
prison compound. Six months ago it
had no lights and no heat. Despite the
efforts of a very dedicated ‘‘Program”’
staff person, the trailer (which now
has had lights repaired) still lacks
heat. We have lighted a candle, but
still have to curse the cold!

As a consequence, I have been
showing films wherever it has been
possible: In the dining hall between
meals (despite nearly impossible fac-
tors of noise of cleaning, kitchen

’ activity, etc.), or in long cinder-block
barred cage which goes under the
name of the ‘‘dormitory’’, where
dispirited men languish, half-clothed,
half-awake, half-oblivious, along a
seemingly unending row of double
bunks. There are difficulties; the

many windows cannot be screened or

curtaineéd, so the films are hard to see;
nearby communal public washstands
and toilets compete for attention; but
something of what appears to be a
sense of desolation is, I think, the
greatest problem. They are up against
a ‘‘System’’, against which they feel
almost totally powerless and ‘“‘hope
deferred...which makes the heart
sick,”’

Who are these men? Bank embezz-
lers?. Stock swindlers? Important
politicians-turned-bribe-takers? Ex-
Vice Presidents for rake-offs, or Chief

Executives for slaughterous abuse of

power? No. These men, whom our
society seems to choose for ‘‘Correc-

tion’, are usually young, usually poor .

white or black or some other minority
group, who usually lived (existed)
under deprivation long before running
afoul of the law.

What should one say to these men?
Of course there are films which have
meaning, and serve some purpose;
most of these men will some day
"revisit the “Outside”, and must be
helped for reentry. But, while we talk

to the prisoners, or show them films,
or offer them ‘‘cigarettes’’, it seems
increasingly clear that it is the
WHOLE PRISON SYSTEM (or what
George Bernard Shaw called ‘‘The
Crime of Imprisonment’’) which is
really on trial; indeed, in my humble
opinion, already condemned. I would
beg the concerned reader to turn to
Jessica Mitford’s book Kind and
Usual Punishment: The Prison Busi-
ness; and I would especially commend
this to Mr. Amos Reed, whom North
Carolina’s new governor has named to
run the state’s prisons, and who, after
a quick survey, has, I think, rightly
concluded that the state has ‘‘a most

grievous and serious problem’’.

Cigarette?...Anybody got a light?

Duncan D. MacBryde '33
Mooresville, N.¢.

is missing due in part, I believe, to
the Administrative policy of placing
too much emphasis on Davidson’s
reputation. They treat the problems
there with plastic surgery and forget
the causes. Renovate Martin Science
plus some, allow the students to use
their radio station to express them-
selves and their needs, support club
sports, rejuvenate the National, allow
and support more experimentation
with courses and majors, expect and
encourage student creativity with
regard to formal education and see
what happens to Davidson’s name.

Forceful, interested, educated peo-
ple returning to their home towns,
entering the business world or pursu-
ing upper level degrees who speak
with respect for Davidson will do
much more than a basketball team as
far as enhancing the school’s image.
Davidson will have a reputation for
energy and innovation, a reputation
for responsiveness and still can claim
a high percentage of acceptances into
professional or graduate schools.

I realize that this has been said
before and that its very easy for me to
write this and slightly harder to
acheive those things I’ve mentioned.
But it is time for some action to be
taken.

I understand the reasoning for
pleasing the Trustees, but they are no
longer the living force of the college
that the students are. They have
graduated and are gone.

I understand too, the concern over
the image of Davidson that the
Trustees have. However, their view of
the school is tinged with the past and
those carefree college days while we
are students now.

And finally, if its only money that
talks loud enough, remember that the
students now are the alumni of the
future and that we make Davidson's
name, not WDAV or any other simple
entity. We are the ones that will or will
not come through with money in the
future. Take care of our educational
needs now and we'll remember David-
son later. Forget us, and we’ll forget
you.

Elinore Marsh '78
Marburg, Germany

SAE pledge terrorists
attack ATO house

To the Editor:

“Late News Flash: Last night several
terrorists of the SAE Fraternity of
Davidson College attacked the ATO
House of Davidson College using rounded,
white mini-bombs which looked suspi-
ciously like Grade A, large farm eggs.
Attempting to pulverize the ATO shield,
the drunken, budding pledge-terrorists
managed to hit only the wall. No injuries
were sustained, though several observers
noted that one terrorist apparently lost his
clothing in the attempt.”’

Wa'al, boys, you've done it again:
you've really come through this time! Last
year I had a difficult time understanding
your need to push the ARA Slater
refrigerator truck down into the ditch in
the middle of Patterson Court—I suppose
SAE pledges will be SAE pledges, as the

ying goes—but I didn’t really expect
uch a childish stunt to happen again, I’m
always willing to overlook a slight error in
judgment and J had hoped you would have
alittle: more-common-sense-in-the-future.
But some people never seem to outgrow

Cowboys and Indians, or ‘‘Combat!’’ and
I suppose children will be children. So it
goes...Just one more thing, though: could
you bea little more careful next year,
guys? If you can, hit the shield or the
stereo of ATO with your eggs, instead of
just the walls and floors, or the exterior of
the house.

Vic Morrow never missed a German
unless he had to...maybe if you were a
little more sober your aim would be better.

Lee Grogan '77
Davidson College

LETTERS

_ The Davidsonian solicits.
ers to the editor on any
subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be'typed and |
ai igned. We reserve the
right to edit oe

—

_ words in length

