A The Davidsonian iciiand! acide
ee _ x2 iii : . see es See

Take Wooden’s
message to heart

Ken Wooden’s message was horrible. For most of Gs who
were unaware of the problem of child abuse, his message
snapped us out of our small worries over grades and parties
and gave us a new perspective about our world.

What is just as despicable as the child abuse problem itself
is the inexcusable inaction of Congress, the FBI, and Postal
Service.

| know it’s been said about a hundred issues but: we urge
you to write your Congressman. It’s been said so many times
the plea has become a cliche. But most cliches are founded in
truth. e

If every member of the Davidson College community were to
write his Congressman urging him to act on legislation to end
the child abuse, maybe our voices will be heard.

So many times we feel as though we as individuals are
helpless to affect change. We can view Wooden as a figure of _
hope.

Despite all the horror Wooden’s message brings, he
exemplifies one man affecting change by making every
organization he can reach aware of the horrible problem of

child abuse. Letter to the Editor

Think about how much easier his job would be if we got

behind him. | hope we all as individuals and as acommunity ad a
will be inspired enough to write. i - 4 @ al Nn S

To the Editor: sonian expressed great regret about
the reasons the Admissions Office

a
An editorial in last week’s David-. Changed the rooming assignments of
C ft U i re V4 | W. ee = two prospective students. Some of

our students have expressed concern
and I decided I should make two com-

LY a s The Davidsonian solicits ments:
with consideration letters to the editor on any 1) the Admissions Office has no
subject. All letters for pub- particular policy in regard to this

lication must be typed and matter but the members of the staff
signed. We reserve the will be glad to discuss the matter with

Cabaret is showing tonight. Tomorrow several Davidson ~ right to edit letters over 300 anyone who would like to discuss it.
students have reviews. Many of:those students will not be able words in length. 2) All things considered, I am sorry
to see the play because they feel they must study. Letters received in The we have handled that particular
There was no need for this situation to occur. Cabaret was Davidsonian offices by | Situation as we did.

scheduled in July. If faculty members would look at the Union Sunday night will ordinarily » H.E. White
calendar before they planned each term, conflicts like these _ be printed that week. Dean of Admissions and
could be avoided. These Friday tests could have been Financial Aid
postponed until Monday without too much difficulty. SSS _—_—_—_—————L

Homecoming, Midwinters and Spring Frolics weekends
shoyld be treated with similar consideration, And Monday
reviews after these weekends should be moved to Tuesday.

We know Davidson is not a party school. The main business
here is education. But studying is not the only way to get an
education. If studying were not balanced with cultural events
such as Cabaret or pleasurable releases such as the big
weekend parties, our education would be seriously lopsided.

Checking the Union calendar would not tax the faculty
members so much. Davidson is small enough to allow fora
little consideration.

The Davidsonian

Catherin6 LAaMOIe 6. a. ces scale Me ee, cs Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins .......... 2 ete News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair............. Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
AMONGRTROI isis. cece et oe) In Re Managing Editor
MUM@rORNNINOS.,......0...0. 00 rere Photography Editor
SAMMI i: 66 occ9- 4's vb wad ong gen bE Production Manager
MMIII, cel. sey cs avs thos pee Business Manager
BMA BONNINGHON, «ok eh eee ts Advertising Manager
to | LT pe a mrad Mme y roca cl Cartoonist
IO, Fog ee hoe a ee Photographer
PAS) 0 lie | SSSR Saeeracararrecie careers acinar seco eae Focus Editor

sis) bh elacpiaisiaaneeneeoorsie Le ee inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

