December 16, 1977

The Davidsonian

One last’ time

Looking back is dangerous. The humiliation caused by past
failures: frustrations over those things you left undone,
embarassment over things you did, play with your mind long into the
night.

But looking back is necessary. One cannot erase failures, only leam
from them. And if you did not look back at the failures you would not
look back at the successes of which you can be proud.

Looking back Isee two themes which have dominated my
editorship: the fight over Christian Tenure and the fight against

paternalism. Iwould like to see Davidson take a good look back at

these two failures. z

Christian Tenure: Last spring the Trustees indicated to the College
there would be no religious requirements in appointment and tenure.
They wrote a by-law which states the College will seek out both
Christiams and non-Christians .

Then they wrote an enacting statement directed to the President on
how to interpret that by-law which said the College must maintain a
“preponderant majority” of Christians on the faculty. The Presjgent is
thus not only permitted but required to ask a candidate his religious
affiliations.

Ifind nine reasons why the trustees should remove the enacting
statement.

1. If the College must seek out Christians and non-Christians and
still keep a preponderant majority of Christians on the faculty, a quota
system must evolve. What constitutes a preponderant majority?

2. If the enacting system is consistent it must inquire into the
religious beliefs of all present faculty. We must find out how we stand
before we can proceed. The process resembles a witch hunt. *

3. Few schools, even church affiliated schools, ask questions of
this nature. —

4. Aperson'’s religious beliefs are personal. It is improper if not
immoral to make inquiries into such a-personal nature.

5. There are athiests on the faculty now who, regardless of belief,
“fit in" to the community and are thus “exempt” from questions. If the
administration and trustees believe that Christian commitment is
achieved by maintaining a Christian faculty, the existence of these
accepted atheists makes us wonder if the enacting statementis no
more than a tool to keep “undesirables” out. If so, the trustees are
more interested in mantaining status quo-than insuring,Chnistian
commitment. Maintaining status quo is nota foreign idea in any
institution. Rut covering it up with the shroud of Christian
committment breeds hypocrisy 4« critical leaders are not good role
models. : ie ies

6. AChristian faculty does not necessarily yield Christian
commitment. Students.can complete four years of Davidson without
encountering a single discussion on Christianity. Faith is something
which sould be questioned and challenged if itis strong faith, If
everyone is Christian it is easy to lapse into a shell where people
protect their faith for fear that if challenged, it will waver. This
imagined dicotomy between faith and redson does not reflect
Christian commitment, but institutional fear.

7. An institution cannot force faith. The fear that Davidson will
become secular in 50 years if it does not maintain a preponderant
majority of Christians on thé faculty is the very rigidity which will
explode, maybe making Davidson secular. A college actively affirming
its Christian commitment in an atmosphere of academic freedom has
a better chance of keeping commitment than oné whose foreed rigidity
invites total revolt.

8. If the enacting statement remains, Davidson will face another
“Linden Affair’ when a candidate has-enough moral strength to refuse
to answera question about his religious faith.

9. If the academic community discovers that Davidson must
maintain a prepolderant majority of Christians on the faculty we will

be laughed back into the Middle Ages where we belong. Our graduates _

The Davidsonian

Catherine Landis ...... ccc ee cece tee eee ees Cee Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ......---+-+-++: News Editors
Charles Erwin &.Nancy McNair........----- Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........--- Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
Amanda Hall ...........--- creer reece Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings.......-------eerreeee ‘Photography Editor
Susan Colan ........ 2. cee cece reereeee Production Manager
Warren Soule .........-5 0-2 fee reteeree Business Manager
Brian Benninghoff ......-..--.-+-+-ee: Advertising Manager
Patsy OAnlOlS ........ 00-22 e beeches. ee Cartoonist
Gregg Strader. ©... ee eee eset cents Photographer
WER pects cress reese seeds Focus Editor
Merideth Durden ............-.-+-e eee ee inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of, David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box

z

will suffer from Davidson's reputation, and qualified candidates will
turn down appointments ata school with such a reputation.
Paternalism: Davidson treats its students as if they were not able to
make responsible decisions for themselves. I state five cases.
1. The curriculum requirements committee determines how many
courses a student must take each term regardless of how many extra

credits the student might have.

2. The College determines what kind of parties students can give on
weekday nights as if students can not decide what they need to study

and when they can relax.

3. The College forces every Freshman to live on a Freshman fiat!
with two hall couselors. Often the hall system compromises the

students’ growth for secutity.

4. The classes do not demand enough independent work for
Students. Faculty members too often feed the material to students like
it was a packaged T.V. Dinner. They inadvertently encourage laziness.
5. Too many faculty members encourage the growing emphasis on

grades alienating themselves from their students by assuming an

authoritarian facade. Many students learn more “tricks” than material.
People often tell me if Ido not like Davidson Ishould leave it. [want

to say to them, if youdo not like what Davidson should be, you leave

it. Davidson is my school too.

like the South. There are very few good schools in the South.
Davidson has the reputation of being one of those few. Ido not think it
is...yet. [think Davidson can learn from its mistakes.

Ihave enjoyed being your editor this year. Thank you for your

support and criticism.

lespecially-want to thank the staff of The Davidsonian without
which Icould not have kept sane.

After all, no other group of people could have “made up” such great
stories. Because when news is in your blood, all the news that fits we

print.

To the Editor

218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00. -

Just remember: Non Carborundum Mlegitimi.

we

Egypt still no utopia

To the Editor:
Apropos an article carried in the

‘december 9, 1977 issue of The

Davidsonian entitled ‘Soviets muddle

‘peace prospects’, I would like to point

out some interesting facts that seem
to have been either purposely ignored,
being inconsistent with the article
content, or inadvertently forgotten in
the course of writing. The Author
painstakingly notes that-- ‘‘with Red
came dictatorship. The intellectual
class and the nobility fled. Those who
stayed and opposed the regime were
cut down. The press and mass media
were controlled, censored and dicta-
ted from the hierarchy.'’ The obvious
sonclusion an undiscerining reader,
aided further by the distinctly parti-

san nature of the article would be that

Sadat’s Egypt as opposed to Nasser-
ian tyranny is a democratic haven
wherein justice, equality, press free-
dom and the right of dissent and
opinion reside in happy abundance.
On the contrary, Sadat’s Egypt is a
mere sophistication of Nasserian dic-
tatorship purged of its Aéxian inter-
pretations. Political chess has resul-
ted in the displacement of indepen-
dent editors and recalcitrant writers
from-professional posts, the vacuum
being subtly filled by sycophant
official and semi-official nominees

who vociferously laud their benefac-
tors, the ruling clique. Youssef el
Sebai replaced the dissident Heydal in
phe newspaper Al Ahram; dissa Sabri
was handed the Akhbar al Yom while
the Al Jumhuria was placed in the
tender hands of Abdel Mheim Sawi.
A monolithic single party system
prevails, and today more than ever
before, the ruling interests represent
the interests of Big Capital and
landed classes alone. A plutocracy
with a dash of parvenu. Not a single
person of note in the cabinet is a
technocrat-or an-economic specialist,
though wealthy scions of the upper
elite echelons of society like Ismail
Fahmy (finance), Ahmed Abu Ismail
(foreign affairs) and Osman Ahmed
Osman (housing and reconstruction)
abound.In June 1975, the people's
assembly voted ammendments to the
agrarian reform law which has virtua-
lly restored the semi-feudal authority
of the landlords over the peasantry. .
Sadat’s ‘Open door policy’ (infitah)
and his sham democracy have resul-
ted in no emancipation of the masses
or any economic. miracle,. Egypt
remains a troubled dictatorship.

Vijay K. Verghese
Davidson College :
