4

December 2, 1977

“te 5 ties) Wey.

The requirement that students take three courses each term
unless they can prove a true academic reason is paternalistic.

People over 18 should be able to determine the structure of their

academic experiences.-A student who has for some reason been able

“to speed up that experience enough to allow him to take a two course
term has already demonstrated his academic ability. Requiring him to
take three courses instead of two undermines his proven

Liberalism vs. liberal arts

When | first heard that the faculty voted down the resolution to

make a non-western course a requirement | was disappointed. To me
the true liberal arts spirit means exposure to many areas of study, and
the vote seemed to be a rejection of an important part of the world.
Since | see the issue is more complex.

One of the best arguements against requiring a non-western course

is that the psychological pressure of still another requirement is not
necessary in light of the fact that a majority of students take
non-western courses even though they are not required. .

| sympathize with the arguement expecially after expressing the

views against strict course requirements in the editorial above. Yet |
cannot help but feel all students should be exposed to other cultures if
they are to take their liberal arts education seriously. In a time when so
much emphasis is put upon using education only to get a job, and
when the intrinsic value of education in thus ignored | feel the
exposure despite the pressure, is valid.

Another good argument opposing the resolution is that because

the growing need to require a basic English program to remedy the
failure of many high schools to prepare students to write effectively ,

the entire curriculum should be evaluated before adding another
requirement. :

So if we can not change it all, change nothing? The opposition has a

strong argument if it truely intends to evaluate the entire curriculum.
If not they have only bought time and an excuse.

Basic English probably should be required. So should a

non-western course.

Yes the issue is complex. | would hope that the faculty seriously

investigates the Davidson curriculum, and after that evaluation, can,
in good conscience see the validity in the required exposure to the

-

be

non-western world.
sa “craw

wy 5 aia aaa ala
fe

RPS

Fae

Now
AGRA

eee

“Students , this

iS the wor\d."

 Y

The Davidsonian

CMUMFLI IID ios cee ee cee cesta teewoaees Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins .............5: News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair ...........-. Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
AVIA oo hob cc's ence cco eee ee nes Managing Editor
Hunter denningS..........cessecseerece Photography Editor
GUMMI  e elv cs cates ee dae eewp ee Production Manager
VMI TTIO iio. occ tin oe tne ea eee es tem Business Manager
Brian Benninghoff ............-:-eeees Advertising Manager
PRIGV DBNIGIS... 0.6 cece eee e eee reese eles eeu Cartoonist
GEIL vc se cece ress ee ueents ciueem Photographer
Pp \ Lic) RS eae Gee RoC ‘ae Focus Editor
We maa ON 55S 45h dike eaelh Manin as inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-

son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C...
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box |
218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

ae ‘Shiitpas

Two courses booed; students stewed ©

responsibility and deserved respect by treating him as if he were still

in high school.

Or take the student who is tired of studying, able to take only two

courses and wishes for his own mental

health to curb the pressure of a

three course term. He would probably not be allowed to do so.

He has taken a mature look at his stress,

found a way to alleviate it.

Yet the three course requirement does not give him the credit to
analyze his own emotional stability.
Dr. Zimmermann says the curriculum at a school like Davidson is
not simply a catalogue of 36 course requirements students need to
pass off as quickly as possible. Instead it offers a continuum of
education enhanced by each term’s three courses.
His reasoning is invalid because it does not recognize the
individuality of each student. How can he say a two course term of

intense study or a two course term 0

f self analysis does not give some

students acontinuum of educational experiences which would be
stifled by the formalistic three course a term approach.

He also says the faculty does not wish students to take only two
courses a term because the extra time a student would devote on
those two courses would imbalance the classes and not be fair to the

other students.

This reasoning is not a very well though out excuse by the faculty
and administration. What faculty member would not be delighted that
a student get as much out of his class as possible? This situation
goes back to the old question of whether it is valid to compromise the
more intelligent members of a class by structuring it only for those of
average intelligence. Once again the administration is not
acknowledging the individuality of each student.

For some reason the administration and many faculty do not trust
the students’ ability to act like mature adults. This attitude suppresses
creativity, individuality by requiring its students to fit into the mold
they set for the students. It is time Davidson grew up and entered the
world of colleges and universities.

On the Edge

Elegiac epithets

By KEVIN SHELLY

Forgotten, alone, it sits silently
snuggled into the corner of a small
field, fronted by a rutted dirt road and
bordered by straggly trees pretending
to be woods once again. The place is
difficult to find, easily overlooked. It
sits hidden from a college playing
field, as planned, by a row of
evergreens. The college dumps their
refuse in the woods approaching
it--castaway building scraps mostly.
The town does the same in this field.
It is Davidson’s black cemetery.

Winter rains are hard on the soil
and _ thick clay overwhelms the mot-
tled green-brown grass in many

' places. Lifeless branches from the few

trees willing to live here litter the
ground and the roots of trees protrude
veinlike where the soil has been
washed away.

Stalagmite like columns of tiny ice
crystals grow whenever the freshly
turned ground is sinking back to
earth, leaving the ice capped thinly by
mud and looking like a grotesque
fungus. The clay balls and clings to
my shoes. ;

All is still and silent except for the
thawing earth anda crow calling far
away.

Markers are thrown indiscriminate-
ly in a crazy quilt pattern, disrupting
the continuity of the grass. All shapes
and sizes, mostly stone, and less
ornate than those in the cemeteries of
my memory. Unlike anywhere past
are nondescript green metallic mar-
kers. Most are twisted and broken by
uncaring feet or stripped of their titles
and nameless.

Oak leaves, withered but still
attached and enduring, rub gently in
the trees. A train wails and I feel the
wind strike me. The crow calls again.

Many of the markers list ranks and
~ccxo72 “eaths in foreign wars--serving

their country. World War I. World
‘War II. Vietman. Fighting for
this.

Here is Hiram Potts. ‘‘Long a
faithful servant of Davidson College.’’
Servant isn’t very far from the old
word,

Halved cinder blocks serve as
flower holders. Strewn amongst the
memorials are plastic flowers. They
fade, but they remain. The antithesis
of life.

Another--‘‘His toils are past, his
work is done. He fought the fight--the
victory won.” This.

Standing above the quiet is the
oak, firmly rooted in the soil but
stretching skyward. Man in carica-
ture. Lichens cover the deeply folded
bark. Two organisms living together,
through each other.

Back along the wood’s edge, a
meandering square outline of brick
runs around a family plot, as though
to keep them together in death and
the world out.

The shadow of a crow skims along
the ground.

A weathered angel, the white worn
away and showing streaks of gray,
skirts soiled rusty by the clay,
supplicates before a half buried rock.

Large stones loom here and there
among the others; stones that repre-
sent scrimping, saving, and going
without by the living to make a final
material statement for the dead. I like
small stones with just initials. Wither
you know them or you don’t. Names
aren’t important--just knowing they
are people is.

Standing here makes college ab-
surd--perverse. The reality of the
place makes trying to read and
understand about human emotions in
a classroom obscene.
