Letters to the Editor _

arnett’s view evokes response

To the Editor:

This letter is in response to Bill
Barnett’s article of April 15th and the
recent Patterson Court Council's
decision to reinstate the bidding
system at Davidson.

The Council’s decision appears to
support Mr. Barnett’s claim that
bidding ‘‘might be just the right
solution to cure the divisiveness in
the Davidson social system,” but I
assert that the Council's decision is
not representative of the court’s true
feelings (example of PAX and EIC.
surprising affirmative votes and the
house members subsequent disap-
proval), and I propose a campus-wide
referendum on Mr. Barnett’s proposal
for a bidding/self-selection sustem at
Davidson.

I indeed the majority of Davidson
students vote for such a revised
system, then it should be planned for
and carried out. If, however, the
bidding system does not carry a
majority of the student wte, then the
court should remain with its present
(although, granted, largely abused)
set of laws.

I question Mr. Barnett’s reasoning
conceming the conciliatory effects of
a bidding/self-selection procedure on
the court, and Iwonder at his (and the
national fratemities’) desire for such
a system. As things stand now, the
. national _fratemities admittedly
discriminate against women. Next
year women at Davidson will attempt
to turn two wrongs into a right by
discriminating against men. I doubt,
however, that either the national

Opinion

fraternities or women at Davidson
would publicly admit to discriminat-
ing on bases other than sex.

Every fraternity has its share of
misfits- those who get in through
self-selection despite pressure
against them by their chosen
fraternity. In Mr. Barnett’s system,
the fraternities will be able to publicly
discriminate — picking and choosing
on such bases as logks, popularity,
strength, etc., deciding who is right
for the fraternity and who isn’t.

Yet, Mr. Barnet says that, after the
fraternities have each carefully
chosen, “the self-selection process
would then be used to fill out the
remaining places in both fratemities‘
and eating houses.”’ Mr. Barnett, if
your fraternity happens to have ten
spaces that need filling when bidding
is over, are you not running the risk of
adding ten people that you had not

Either way the fraternities run the
risks of getting people they had no
desire to make members.

However, maybe under your
proposed system the fratemities will
have fewer “undesirables”. So what
about these undesirables— the ones
who miss out on getting a bid? They
are at the bottom of self selection,
and you can’t tell me they won't be

—bitter. They will be very bitter, and—

that will hardly add to the cohesive-
ness of Patterson Court.

Also, your system markedly points
out the differneces in nationals and
non-nationals by forming two distinct

a

April 22, 1977

selection processes. The non-nation-
als will naturally want freshmen to
opt for self-selection, and the
nationals will try hard to get freshmen
to choose the bidding system. I
assert that the rift caused by forming
two distinct selection processes will
make the court more divided, not
less.

The national fratemities (and next
year the women at Davidson (WAD,
are not so bad off. A Davidson co-ed
would hardly feel welcome at one of
the court's fraternities, and I doubt a
Davidson male would find much of a
welcome at WAD. The respective
masculine/feminine domination in

these houses is not likely to be
challenged. There is no need to add
to the present discrimination by
allowing these houses to discrimi-
nate on bases other than sex.
Certainly this right should only be
voted to the court by a majority of the
Davidson students and not by the
Patterson Court Council and Council
on Campus and Religious Life alone.
The ideals of Patterson Court may
soon be drastically changed by a
handful of people. Shouldn't the
student body as a whole be allowed
to make such an important decision?
Kathy Wolf '79

Davidson College

Local police commend
rca ver i he tenaee STUGNL for Stopping theft

To the Editor:

The Davidson Police Department
would like to extend its thanks to the
very alert student Marshall A. Wad-
dell who reported to the police the
observance of two males in Cannon
dorm on the evening of April 8, 1977.

Mr. Waddell notified the police that
two males were leaving campus

and that one had on a red sweater and

blue jeans and the other one had a
blue sweater. The two suspects were
apprehended and the cash taken from
David K. Taylor was recovered.

One of the suspects was a juvenile

and was charged in Juvenile Court.
The other suspect was arrested for
larceny. Although they could not be
charged for the offense as they had
discarded it prior to being ap-
prehended, one of the suspects was
armed with a 22 cal. pistol.

I would personally like to thank
Mr. Waddell for his assistance and
encourage any student that observes.
strangers in the dorms to call the
police immediately.

Jackie G. Hughes
Captain, Precinct #2

Academic leadership often lacking

By CATHERINE LANDIS

_“Is the student really being given
an ability to (objectively) see and
examine the nature of the society he is
ebout to enter? What are the effects of
professionalist influences from law,
teaching, and medicine upon under-
graduate education—and are these
outside influences detrimental to in-
tellectual development? —~

“At this time I would like to relate
some points made by Dr. Robert Paul
Wolff in The Ideal of the University.
He sees the present university per-
forming four functions which are not
exactly what undergraduate educa-

Vince Rabil '75 included this article
in his report to the SGA on the United
States Student Association and the
26th National Student Congress in
1973 when he was a SGA delegate:

During the opening panel discus-
sion at the Student Body Presidents
Conference, I addressed the following:

-remarks to the panel, student body'
presidents, and delegates:

“I believe there are more essential
questions that we should be exami-'
ning at this time, and to which we
must begin to find the answers lest all
this discussion become meaningless.
The most important question: Does
true learning really take place in our
institutions?

__ ‘Does true learning beyond the
mere memorization of facts by rote
take place in which by learning the
student’s entire view of the world and
himself is somehow changed so that
he is able to come to grips with

himself and actually question the

f

birth and the biases being passed on
to him now in the so-called value
neutrality of higher education? —
tion is theoretically all about.
“First he sees it serving as a
‘sanctuary of scholarship’ in which

faculty involved in basic research and —-

publication are supported by the
institution in areas away from the
classroom—to the detriment of un-
dergraduates who need to be exposed
to these scholars more than any other
student.

‘‘(Davidson does not really have
this problem.) Second, he sees it as a
training ground for the professions in
which pre-law, pre-med, and other

-professionalist preparatory programs
are seeping increasingly into the
undergraduate curriculum bringing
along with them the ethics and
‘coolness’ of professionalism which

—tends to rob students of the enthu-
—gsiasm and emotional satisfaction

stimulated in the learning process.
“The third function is the univer-
sity as a ‘base for social services’.
This disturbs me in light of the
panelist who spoke to this point.
Colleges and universities are not arms
of government, and I do not think
that as educational institutions — who
no doubt may have the resources—
they should become social service
stations when there are hundreds of
foundations and institutions in the
private sector who could fill the voids
left by government in these;areas. _

‘Wolff sees the fourth function of:

the university as an ‘assembly line for

the establishment man’ in which the
‘ndent is instilled with authoritarian
corporate values and acquires a kind

__ _of intellectual fascism in which all

that is not necessary to know or read
is either eliminated or ignored.

“This is what is happening in our
schools. How are we going to respond
to it? Wolff reveals the ‘lockstep

patterns’ graduate schools force upon
undergraduate institutions because
they are the next step taken many
times by undergraduates.

“This lockstep pattern forced upon
the academic and curricular policies of
all undergraduate schools is blindly
allowed to exist despite the fact that
an undergraduate education is inher-
ently different from the nature of
graduate education. The influences of
professional schools are equally detri-
mental and ‘lockstep’ in nature.

——‘“Because of these influences we
may never comprehend the intellec-
tual irrelevance of grades. When are
we going to come to the understan-
ding that we’re not just a community
of scholars or a community of
learning, but that we are many
different communities in the same
location with entirely different pur-
poses and ideas about who we are?
When are we going to become aware'

of the alienation that invisibly exists __

between us? > |

“In relation to society I see the
college and university ideally serving
a critical function which is divorced
from the ‘system’ as much as possible
to allow for an atmosphere of objecti-

vity which facilitates questioning 0’
values and social goals, and thus
permits the education of the under-
graduate in this way so that he may
see institutional values and biases in
professions, academic life, and gov-
ernment.

“Dr. Wolff points out many obsta-
cles to the attainment of a real
atmosphere of truth and enthusiasm
for the preservation of truth such as
financial sources, tradition, graduate
school ‘locksteps’, and elitism. What
can we do to over come these bar-
riers?”’

The questions Rabil raised in 1973,
are even more important today.
Davidson suffers from intellectual
stagnancy. Students and faculty,
note what Rabil has to say, analyze
your own motivations behind your
academic pursuit, and ask yourself
whether Davidson is living up to its
responsibility of an institution of .
higher learning.

We have little academic leadership, .
no competition to make Davidson
the best college in the south. It can
be, but we’re going to have to work at

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits
letters to the editor on any |
subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and |
signed. We reserve the |
right to edit letters over 300

_ words in length.
