= a z
Admissions accused of

predjudice: what kind of
students do we want?

Last weekend a Davidson student made arrangements with
two freshman girls to house two prospective white students
who were visiting for the weekend. One freshman girl was
black; the other was white.

When the Admissions Office discovered one of the
prospective students would be staying with a black girl, they
made arrangements for the two prospective students to stay in
other rooms.

Why? The Admissions Office was afraid a prospective might
not come to a college which housed her with a black.

The incident itself reeks of uncalled-for prejudice. But the
implications of the incident are even deeper. |

Does Davidson want students who would get upset over
staying one weekend with a black person?

The Admissions Office keeps telling éveryone they are
searching for diversity in the student body whenever they are
accused of maintaining a homogeneous student body.

Their actions do not support their words. If Davidson
welcomes people who are so prejudiced without challenge
they will never get a diverse student body.

And if Davidson singles out black students they are not
weicoming them into the community. As Dr. Spencer said,
“Black students must feel they are not merely welcome to
come, but that there are no barriers to their full participation in
every phase of college activity.”

Are our black students just tokens? If they are Davidson is
not only out of date, it is immoral.

Theft threatens Code

The number of books stolen from the library by both
students and professors seriously violates the Honor Code.

What does it mean when 262 books are stolen every year?

It means the culprits are infringing on the rights of those
who use the library correctly. The Davidson library’s policy is
extremely liberal. If you take it for granted, go to a school
which has metal detectors, closed stacks, or security guards
and see how you like it. If you want Davidson to resort to such
measures, continue taking books out without checking them
out. You will force the library to adopt stricter policies.

If you do, you are not being fair to the rest of us. You do not
need to steal books. They are available to you in the library,
free of cost. All you have to do is check them out, then bring
them back for others to use. It is not that hard to be
considerate.

If guilt does not bother you, maybe a monetary motivation
will. Our tuitions pay the $3,930.00 it costs the library to
replace the stolen books. With all the screaming about what
this college should be spending money on, we do not-need to -
spend money on stolen books. ,

The best way (at this point, before it goes too far) to stop the
problem is peer pressure. The Honor System works on
constant awareness of its presence and its potential
effectiveness. We have to keep reminding ourselves,
reminding our friends it exists or we will not have it anymore.

= stay set thang: PY

The Davidsonian m

THE New PeweyY DECIMAL SYSTEM

The Davidsonian -
Catherine Landis ...........-..0c0: EGET Code cae Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair............. Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
p41) =! | sel tae dae ge Ge AS RC Managing Editor
PRUE POMTNITOR 6 is cede sles vce baum Photography Editor
MUM ey re fel ory. Les Production Manager
WBMWD. cos Vik doo ni Go iv vo lek ee Business Manager
PMMMMININGNON  «..coidaciiieics se ae ae Advertising Manager
No ca sinh 00s ons sees. Ge Cartoonist
AnIeeeere ce ee ee eae Photographer
PT MRO Be Siaala gos Ws GS oo ado eee vay Focus Editor
SMGIIGUy CUNEO... add. oe ..s.... Inside Art Editor
Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box

|.218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Letters to the Editor

Sumwalt retaliates

To the Editor:

I would like to make it clear that
this is not a retaliation, but merely a
reply to the letter from a “‘concerned
friend” in last week’s The Davidson-
ian. I would like to identify myself as
the accused person in the article,
‘Loudness Lambasted’’ concerning
the excessive loud music. Unlike last
week's writer, I don’t need to"hide my
identity, nor do I tend to use the
paper to vent my personal grievances.

First of all, I apologize for the loud
music to the ‘‘concerned friends’’, all
my hallmates, and all the people in
the library whom I was indirectly
accused of disturbing. I agree that
loud music can be inconsiderate. It
puzzles me, however, even after
questioning hallmates, that I haven't
received one complaint of any kind
this year concerning loud music.
Needless to say, the article surprised
me.

While commenting on the contents
of last week’s letter, I will respect his
attempt to remain anonymous. AI-
though the point was a good one, I
fail to see how such phrases as ‘‘an
SAE-ish idea,” ‘‘being on the basket-
ball team’’, and ‘‘they aren’t as cool
as they want you to think they are’,
are relevant to the principle of the

The following letter from the Bushi-
angala Action Group in Kenya was
received recently by Ken Wood of the

- Experiential Programs office in re-

gard to the death of Davidson student
George Reedy '78.

To the Editor:

We are very sorry over the death of
your student, George Reedy. George
had come to Kenya and had started to
stay with us in our community. He
had become the Headmaster of a
neighboring school. This was a Har-
ambee Secondary School which need-
ed a young man like George to
organize community members to de-
velop the school with any little funds
from their community resources and
pockets. With George’s tolerance and
patience, he was able to cope with
these everyday problems and to work
with the community to build the
school,

We had felt very happy with the
type of work that George was doing
with us here and we were forging
ahead progressively to bring up the

school and community. We were z
* tatoos SOPPCO lose such @ hatd-work. {=

article. I never realized ‘‘loud music”
involved so many things. Personal
gripes are one thing, cheap shots
another.

But perhaps there is a lesson from
all this, for I am sure this problem
exists elsewhere. For those who wish
to express their feelings, it is not
necessary to go to the Dean of °
Students and have your subject
reprimanded, or even go through The
Davidsonian in any attempt to ridi-
cule your subject. Be really ingenious
and use such sophisticated procedures
as perhaps a knock on the door, an
anonymous note slipped under the
door, or even resort to such drastic
measures as ‘asking the person’’ to
turn his stereo down. (Some of the
recent models have a volume control.)
But as stated earlier, this is a
sophisticated procedure and takes a
small amount of intelligence.

In closing, I would like to respond
to one of the relevant issues brought
out last week. Yes, I am ‘‘on the
basketball team, even though (1)
don’t play much’’. I only hope my
shortcomings pertain to a physical
nature, and not a lack of class. That
must be a very tough problem to deal
with, isn’t it, my “concerned friend’’.

Mark Sumwalt '78
Davidson College

Reedy’s death mourned

ing young man. We hope you will bear
with the loss of George in your
college. We also know that the college
must have felt that it has lost a very
useful man that would be very helpful
both to the Nation and the world as a
whole.

We wish God puts the soul of
George in a good resting place.

Yours sincerely,
Bushiangala [Harmbee]
Action Group |

P.O. Box 461

_ Kakamega, Kenya

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits
letters to the editor on any
Subject. All letters for pub-
lication must be typed and
signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300
words in length.

Letters received in The
Davidsonian offices by

Sunday yo will ordinarily

.be printed that waek...

