S «

8

Davidson offers two alternatives for students
frustrated by lack of creative writing time

By ANN GARNER
Focus Editor

‘Words alone are certain good,’’
maintained William Butler Yeates.
But does creativity in their arrange-
ment lie in a handy pen, scrap paper
and divine inspiration alone? Not
quite. At Davidson, the creative
writing program provides not only
necessary instruction, but a required
creative oulet.

“Mr. Newman's
class is good in that it gave me the
excuse to write,”’ said Patsy Daniels,
in reference to the seminar in creative
writing held each winter term. Paul
Baker Newman is a professor at
Queen's College and conducts a three
hour seminar each week. ®

“The course is basically free lance,”’
Daniels added, *’ with the class time
devoted to the reading of your work
and critisism from your peers.’’ This
critisim from other class members is
perhaps the most advantageous as-
pect of the course.

“It’s a scary thing to let your peers
sit there and tell you that your story
stinks,” stated Ann Wicker, “‘but you
can't learn until you know what's
wrong.”

‘The criticism made me settle
down, develop an image in my sto-

creative writing

ries instead of just throwing one out.
It helped me to create ee said
Roger Brown.

Frustration occured in lack of time

liamson, ‘‘for sometimes I found I
wanted outside attention.”

Daniels added, ‘Mr. Newman is a
fish out of water in that he could not
tell me what I could utilize here as far
as courses and special events are
concerned.”’

Yet, Davidson does provide an
independent study in creative wri-
ting under.several professors each
term. ‘In independent creative ‘wri-
ting, there are two good factors at
’’ said Vereen Bell Winner Steve
“It forces discipline in

work,
Peeples,
writing everyday upon you and by
operating on a one-to-one basis, the
student gets candid feedback, both
positive and negative, from someone

whose opinicn they respect.’

“In writing creatively, a person is

“Most people take language for granted.

It is a shock for people to discover how

hard it is to write prose.”

--Professor of English Frank W. Bliss

not the best judge of his own writing.
He simply can not see his own,”
maintains Professor of English Frank

Bliss. ‘‘In this respect adverse Bliss.

criticism is not only helpful, it is “Il was mostly required to write and
talk about it.’ said Peeples. ‘These
conversations generally revolved a-
round what scenes worked and did not
work and why.”

\ difficult thing for most students
to see is the immense value in
revision; to learn how to rewrite,
reinvision, To labor over a sentence o1
phrase,’’ added Bliss.

‘Most people take language for
Sranted. It isa shock for people to
discover how hard 4t is to write
prose, he said,

inevitable, Mruiessor of English Anthony S.,
Cathy Landis added, ‘I never felt Abbot concurred, ';We really can not
freer, for I was seriously writing for teach a student how to.write. We can
myself and was receiving constructive only induce a creative environment
criticism on what I wanted to write.’ where it is more possible to grow...”
Upon agreement between the pro- Many students interested in crea-
fessor and student on a workable con- tive writing feel that with the
tract, the student begins writing, pressure of three courses in ten weeks,
normally with referred assigned read- something must be compromised.
ing in the specific genre and style in Patsy Daniels concluded, “Creative
which the student is interested: Writingyis a valuable thing here for
‘By reading and rereading the there is not really an opportunity to
works of an author you admire, the let Your creativity run wild, Pressure
student becomes familiar with the stifles creativity._tn taking a-course,

ways in which he gets from sentence

to sentence, image to image,’ said

you have to devote time to this; to

keep a creative track with you.”

by the visiting Queens professor. ‘'I
would have felt better if he had been

The Arts: part |

closer to campus,’’ said Ruth Wil-

Opinion

Student Publication: Do we care?

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Davidson, for all its liberal arts emphasis, is not an art school.
It doesn’t pretend to be. This may be the problem underlying
the consistent vapidity of our student writing publications, for
while the degree of student commitment to creative writing may
be questionable, the Davidson community's is not: very few
here care one way or the other.

Publishing is not, for any writer, an easy thing. You print
your poem or short story and wait for praise, criticism or, worst
of all, indifference. It is indifference that seems to govern
Davidson’s attitudes towards student publication despite those
of us who are enthusiastic about writing or publishing. Not that
people dislike student work, they simply don’t see enough of it
to react—a problem which may, in large part, be laid before the
editors, their advertising.

Colleges with full-blown undergraduate writing programs,
Bard and Princeton for instance, run their own journals
dedicated almost exclusively to student writing. Davidson
publishes student work, specifically in Inklings, Inside Art, and
The Miscellany, but only a trickle, not enough to stimulate
interest on a large scale. Inklings publishes only freshman work
and is not distributed to the student body as a whole; Inside Art
is filled principally by solicitation, and The Miscellany chooses
what it will publish from close to two hundred manuscripts in
which student writing tends to get lost or overshadowed.

There is also the Vereen Bell Prize, dedicated exclusively to
students. The prize, however, is only given once a year, and
does not allow access to student manuscripts. Students have
won the Vereen Bell Prize with what is presumably fine work
and no one sees it. As a result student writing. is effectively
hidden from those of the Davidson community who would like to
see manuscripts from people besides those they know who write
and write consistently.

All this matters only if one is interested in the state of student

writing at Davidson. But.if one is, how does he or she go about.

seeing some of it? If the publication opportunities are limited
and some of the better manuscripts are never seen, how can

anyone’ speak with, criticize, or learn fon those writing around
him? ; |

“we courfall wait until we meet in Bysantivis: but that’s'a bit ©

impractical. For the moment I would suggest, an intensified

announcement and advertising program for all student
publications. Let Inside Art, especially, make its purpose—
which is the publication of student work—clear, and publicize it-
self; publish a mid-year, perhaps, uppercl an’s Inklings,
and arouse more student interest in Gi, Miscellany.
More student poetry readings, with critical sessions following,
might help, as well as workshops with visiting poets and editors
who will help the publications as much as those students
who wish to publish. The point is, if one wishes: to
circulate his work, he or she should be able to do it in something
other than manuscript form, and to this end the student writing
publications at Davidson should be expanded.

And directed. Each of the publications I’ve spoken of has very
little direction. Inside Art is low-profile to the point of being
invisible, while the Inklings seems more of a scrapbook than a
magazine. The Miscellany must decide whether its circulation is
to remain limited to Davidson and its present fifteen subscribers
or whether it wishes to expand into something larger and,
hopefully, better. If a certain amount of solid effort is put into
these, some fine student work may get published. At least it will
give those of us who write the opportunity to find out who we.
are and sit down to talk. In one sense, that’s the point of
publication: so other people can see your work and talk with you
about it. Talk is great; indifference is about as bad as things can
get. ree

as well as increase the excitem

Announcing:

For the next two weeks, The
Davidsonian will focus on the arts at
Davidson. Being aware that the arts
are an important if not mandatory
aspect of the liberal arts education we
hope that FOCUS can inform the
community about what is available
and what is’ not available in this area
ent
over the arts which they deserve. This
week FOCUS concentrates on Drama
and Creative Writing. Next week we
shall cover Art and Music.

S

By A

M

The Dram
ting Shakesp
the Fall maj
opens Octob:
‘the 22nd an
| matinee Octo
: Professor c
ber Jr. is dil
Professor of

is designing |

Interdisplinary drama
Students to study asp

By CHARLIE LAW
Staff Writer

Students interested in dra-
matic literature and theatre
arts as academic pursuits will
find enriched possibilities for
study through a new program
offered by the Center for
Special Studies.

Professor of Speech and

, Drama Rupert T. Barber, Jr.,

speaks enthusiastically of the
Center’s Interdisciplinary
Program in Dramatic Litera-
ture and Theatre, which, he
says, meets _a—long-standing
need at Davidson. Students
wishing to study dramatic
expression both as literature
and on stage havelin the past
been frustrated by the absence
of adequate course offerings in
the field, he continued.
Classics, English, and for-
eign language departments

provide some exposure to dra.,,,

matic literature, but students
have found it difficult to

schedule these courses while

mol

meeting the requirements of Cer
their majors. tha
‘*We have long needed’ a stru
way to place the study of P
theatre and drama within our ben
liberal arts framework,’’ said of |
Professor of English Anthony flex
S. Abbott, a member of the will
Center's faculty. the
Dramatic literature has use
been overshadowed by the gral
English Department's empha- two
* sis on fiction and poetry, he hist
claims, and ‘‘because this is a I
small, liberal arts college, a stuc
drama Major is inappropri- pro¢
ate.” labs
Abbott and Dean of the fror
Center for Special Studies dep:
Robert L. Avinger, both elect
stressed that the new program seni
is not a Stepping stone toward prog
the establishment of a drama T;
major at Davidson. Barber sias)
wconcurred, adding that the. .ture
program, because of its inter- shar
disciplinary nature, functions pan
