February 3, 1978

i roe ge
Faculty Guest Column

< = Mp Z race Cie Sad

5

Economics in one.easy lesson

By ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics :

“... the doctrines of Economics are not
simple and cannot be made so.”
Alfred Marshall

Just after accepting the offer to
write something for The Davidsonian
I met a friend, whom I had not seen
for some time, at a dinner party. He
immediately asked me, as he always
did in the past, to prescribe for the
country’s economic ills. Any econo-
mist in his right senses would have
quoted the Rabbinical injunction --
“Teach thy tongue to say, I do-not
know --,” and then started talking
about the weather, which is much,
much less complicated than econo-
mics. (Any economist, or for that
matter, anyone at Davidson, if in his
right senses, would not quote a
Rabbinical injunction.)

But no economist, in ‘his right
senses or not, has ever been able to
resist prescribing or forecasting in the
realm of economics, even without
being asked to do so. I, therefore,
began to pontificate in my best
academic manner. The serving of
dinner interrupted my pedantic, if not
erudite, discourse before I even had a
chance to begin confusing him with
the more esoteric econo-speak, a
special language known only to the
initiated. Afterwards I did not get an
opportunity to finish my monologue
on economics, a most frustrating
experience for an academician. I
propose to use this opportunity to
record what the monologue would
have been, had I a chance to write it
first.

Two problems

There are two major economic
problems in the U.S. One is unem-
ployment; the other is inflation. All
economic problems have a theoretical
explanation on and from which poli-
cies are based and developed. In
capitalist economies the theory that
underlies all public economic policies
that have had any success in reducing
unemployment is the theory devel-
oped by John Maynard Keynes in the
1930’s, yea verily, even in that ne plus
ultra, that Kohinoor of ‘‘free market,’’
“free private enterprise’’ economy,
the Federal Republic of Germany.
(See Modern Capitalism by Andrew
Shonfield or Wall. Street Journal, Jan.
30, 1978).

Until the 1930’s unemployment was
not considered by mainstream econo-
mists to be a problem. This was
because the dominant, accepted eco-
nomic theory held that the economy
was tending to full employment. This
conclusion was based on the universal
acceptance by orthodox economists of
what is known as Say’s ‘‘law of
markets,’’ which held that. “supply
creates its own demand.” Supply was
sthe-only. problam sbont. which econo-
nists were experted to. vive advice, .
demand increased automatically and
as a matter of course from increases in

‘supply. John Stuart Mill stated the
case in more learned and scholarly
language: ‘‘...there is no consumption
except that for which the way has
been prepared by appropriate produc-
tion; and all production is followed by
the consumption for which it was
designed.”

Mr. Keynes’ theory makes ‘‘de-
mand”’ the problem. ‘‘Demand,” in
this case, consists of spending by
consumers, businesses, government,
and foreigners for economic goods
produced by a given economy. “There
are many reasons why one, sorhé;' or
all of these sources of spending can
fall short of the level necessary to
provide full employment.

Increased spending

Consumer spending can be in-
creased by increasing ‘‘personal in-
come,’ by a more equal distribution
of a given amount of ‘personal
income,’ and/or by increasing ‘“‘dis-
posable personal income.” The latter
can b2 accomplished through a cut in
personal income taxes.

Business spending can be increased
by policies that result in improvement
or increase in businessmen’s expecta-
tions about future profits and/or by
action that lowers the rate of interest.
A tax cut, by increasing consumer
spending, may improve the future
market prospects to the extent that
business firms will increase spending
for new capital goods, assuming that
there is not sufficient idle equipment
already available to meet the expected
increase in demand.

Government spending can be in-
creased simply by the executive
branch requesting and the legislature
approving a larger budget. It is the
ease with which government spending
can increase to offset any deficiency in
other sources of spending, plus the
inability of business spending, since
the 1920’s, to reach levels sufficient to
provide full employment, due to
economic and social developments
and changes in the 19th century that
produced the ‘‘mature economy,’’
that accounts for the continued high
level of government spending,
whether Democrats or Republicans
are in power.

Foreign spending can be increased
by lowering the prices of domestic
goods below the prices of similar or
identical foreign goods. This can be
accomplished by reducing the domes-
-tic costs of production and/or by
devaluation of the domestic monetary
unit,
“Tt Kilows ¢ that government can
increase employment either by a cut
in taxes and/or by increasing gov-
ernment expenditures. An increase in
government spending will have a
greater effect on increase in income,
and thus employment, than a tax cut
of equal magnitude. Oviously, the
maximum effect will be achieved
when government spending is in-
creased and taxes are cut.

Two theories

There are two theories of or
explanations for inflation. One, the
older theory, is called “‘demand-pull”

’ in journalese. This theory places the

major emphasis in accounting for
inflation on the supply of money,
holding that there is a direct relation-
ship between the quantity of money in
circulation and the price level. An
anti-inflation nelirv-hased on this
theory would aim at reducing the
supply of money.
aan gee eeyeas ne

The second theory is called the
‘“‘cost-push”’ theory. This theory
places the major emphasis for infla-
tion on the ability of business forms in
what the economists call oligophy (an
euphemism for monopoly) industries
to exercise some control over the
prices of their products. In these
industries, which include such impor-
tant industries as steel, petroleum,
sulphur, aluminum, automobile, and
many others, demands by unions for
higher wages are granted with only
token opposition and regardless of
whether the wage increases are merit-
ed by increases in productivity. The
firms are able to raise prices enough
to absorb the increased costs --
sometimes by more than enough. The
statistical importance of these indus-
tries in the economy causes their
prices to exert a greater than average
pressure on the general price level.

An anti-inflation policy based on
this theory would aim at restoring
competition in these industries -- by
enforcement of the existing anti-trust
laws -- or would impose an incomes
policy.

Policy recommendations

The policy recommendations that
are made depend, in the first instance,
on the assumption one makes as to
which problem is the most pressing or
important one. Liberals tend to
assume that, unemployment is the
most important one; therefore they
recommend increased Federal Gov-
ernment spending, sometimes recom-
mending a tax cut to accompany the
increased spending.

Conservatives tend to assume that
inflation is the most pressing pro-
blem. They recommend cutting gov-
ernment expenditures, leaving taxes
undisturbed, thereby producing a
budget surplus, to be used in reducing
the government debt. ;

Now for recommendations guaran-
teed to solve all economic problems,
viz., MINE.

First, cut ‘‘defense’’ expenditures
by one-half, at least -- these are the
most inflationary of government
spending. Spend the ‘‘peace” divi.
dend secured by reducing ‘‘defense’’
expenditures for health, housing for
the poor, education, environment,
energy, etc.

Second, increase total government
expenditures by some specific amount

that is sufficient to accomplish the '
goal of reducirrg or eliminating unem-
ployment in groups that have an un-

employment rate above the national
average, and plan the spending so as

to direct it to the areas of such high
unemployment.

Tax reform

Third, do not cut taxes, but
institute a tax reform policy that
would produce a more equitable tax
system which, conbined with planned
spending, would be designed to bring
about a more equal destribution of
income. Mr. Keynes noted near the
end of the General Theory that ‘‘the
outstanding faults of the economic
society in which we live are its failure
to provide for full employment and its
arbitrary and inequitable distribution
of income and wealth.” Since this was
written, much, though not nearly
enough, has been done toward elim-
inating the first fault; almost nothing
about the second. The failure to

‘achieve greater success in dealing

with unemployment is due, in large

.»Congressmen James Martin

measure, to absence of success in
correcting the second.

Providing a more equitable tax
system will requife, at a minimum,
repealing the corporation income tax
and placing a 100 per cent tax on
undivided profits, and eliminating all,
repeat, all, ‘‘loopholes”’ in the person-
al income tax.

It has been estimated that the
latter alone would increase personal
income tax receipts of the Federal
Government by 40 per cent. In 1975
and 1976, without “‘loopholes,’’ per-
sonal income tax receipts of the
Federal Government would have been
increased by 49 billion dollars and 53
billion dollars, respectively. The uni-
fied budget deficits for these two
years were 45 billion dollars and 66
billion dollars, respectively. If a
properly reformed personal income
tax had been in effect for these two
years, the total deficit would have
been only 9 dollars over the period.
(One cannot resist wondering why
such ardent budget balancers as
and
Senator Jesse Helms do not advocate
and support this reform as a means to
balance the budget, rather than
advocating cutting welfare expendi-
tures sf

Selective price controls
Fourth, impose price controls only,
not wage controls, on the oligopolistic
industries. The reasons for using
‘“‘cost-push”’ theory to control infla-
tion rather than ‘‘demand-pull’’ are 1)’
reducing the supply of money, which
is called for by the latter, would tend
to increase the rate of interest, which,
in turn would affect adversely busi-
ness and consumer spending, and 2)
the tax reform recommendation would
reduce, or eliminate, the budget
deficit, thereby reducing the infla-
tionary pressure from this source.
There are two advantages of the
selective price controls recommended
above. First, this. type of price control
is relatively easy to administer;
general price controls in a ‘‘free’’
society are well nigh impossible to
administer and enforce, except during
a major war. Second, it would result
in collective bargaining between labor
and management in these industries
reaching a wage settlement that
would more nearly reflect real in-
creases in productivity, and hence not
inflationary, than is presently the
case. Wages would, if effect, be con-
trolled to that level which is economi-
cal and without arousing the antago-
nism of the laborers. __

The above relatively conservative
recommendations are hardly consis-
tent with my reputation. These are
the best, though, that realistically
can be proposed at the present time
and in the present situation. More
radical and better proposals will have
to await the establishment. of so-
,cialism, which is not likely to occur
before the Davideonian deadline.

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for publica-
tion must be signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters
over 300 words.

Mail letters to The Davidso-
jan, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036, or bring them by the
newspaper's office in the Col-
legetrios. USttcrs ssscived by
Moriday night wilfordinarily be
rinted in that week’s issue.

