September 22, 1978

Take out
orders

Mon.-Wed. 11 33, 5-8
Thurs.-Sat. 11-3, 5-12
Sun. 12-3, 5-10

Happy Hours:
Thurs & Fri nights
8:30-10 PM

“Best food east of Tulsa”

892-8686,

The Davidsonian | | 13

. Body of Zimmermann’ S Oraft

"(Continued from page 5) rendered.

evidence not only of continued and/or promotion will normally
professional development, but In reviewing senior members— -be made to the Trustees at their
of stimulus give to others, of the faculty the President and spring meeting. In reaching his
espécially younger colleagues, the VPAA look for increased recommendations the President
by example and by assistance visibility in the life of the will weigh heavily the judge-
ments of the VPAA based on
evidence gathered regarding the
faculty member's continued

growth and development as a

college community, and for

INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL

teacher and echoler.
Dean Frank T. Read of the University of Tulsa College of Law will be Such evidence will include the
on’campus September 25 to speak with interested pre-law students. chairman’s recommendation,
Tulsa is a fully aceredited law school offering a quality program of] letters or interviews the VPAA
legal education. For further details, contact: may request with colleagues in

the department or faculty at
large, information from student
evaluations, the record of
grants soughts and obtained,
participation in faculty research
groups, etc.

Ms. Suzie Summers
Office for Experimental Programs

The University of Tulsa has an Equal Opportunity /ASffirmative
Action | Program for students and employees.

BUILD YOUR OWN

BIG SCREEN COLOR TV

Sporting Events Are An Experience As Exciting As Being There!
Movies Are Seen The Way They Were Meant To Be Seen!

Pong And Other Video Games Are More Exiting Than Ever!
Can Be Used With Video Tape Playback Equipment!

Simulated TV Reception

It’s Like Having a ‘‘Movie Theater” in Your Home!
AMAZING $90.00 PROJECTOR KIT now only $29.95

Imagine inviting friends to see FV Specials, Movies, Sports, on your Theater Size TV! It’s like viewing on a movie
screen! Everything takes on a whole new dimension . . . almost makes you feel like you’re in the action? Can also
be used outdoors, converting your back yard into an open-air Outdoor Theater! This new invention, gives sharp
brilliant TV reception comparable to commercial projector systems costing $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAFE to
use. No electrical or mechanical connections to TV. Removes in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial
required. Projects up to 5 x 6 foot pictures (7% Ft. diagonal) -on wall or screen, even in the smallest rooms or
apartments. Best of all, this amazing Projector is really simple and_-inexpensive to build yourself. Even a 12-year old
can do it quickly, Enclosed Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime guaranteed Precision Lens System,
11” x 17” illustrated Plans and Specifications and EASY ASSEMBLY instructions. All you supply is only some
cardboard or wood for the simple cabinet. This Projector can be used with ANY Portable TV set 7” to 25", and will
enlarge pictures in either Color or Black & White. If you wish, here’s an easy way ta make money in your sparetime.
Simply assemble and sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, relatives, etc. Everyone with a Television
Set will gladly pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make up to $70.00 on each easy sale. Your cost,
one kit - $29.95, two kits - $49.95, five kits - $99.95.

SALES MARKETING Dept. NP-7
P.O. Box 2646
Merced, California 95340

Enclosed is $____ for Postpaid complete TV PROJECTOR KITS

Name

Address 00 nen
City/State ee SIP
(offer expires 9/1/78

