Voiurnie-caVitt, Number FOUR

. a
Two questions

Broadcasting bedfellows
deaf to each other’s needs

By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor
CHARLOTTE—The Davidson Communications Depart-
ment, under instructions from College President Samuel
Spencer, will soon begin a market survey here.
Their goal is to find answers to two questions.
Is there a demand for classical music in this city?

If. such a demand exists, must WDAV spend more than
half its broadcast time playing classical music to satisfy it?

One school which has already answered both these
questions to its satisfaction is the University of North
Carolina at Charlotte.

Beginning next April, acéording to Vice Ghalicetios for
Student Affairs Doug Orr, UNCC’s WFAE hopes to be

mostly broadcasting classical
music at 100,000 watts— more
than five times the power df
Davidson's 18,500 + watt
WDAV.

“We do plan ‘to go primarily
classical,’’ said Orr. ‘‘Our plan
is for the majority of program-
ming to be classical. . . what
percentage we'll just have to:
wait and see.”

Like Davidson UNCC thinks
of its station as a fund-raising
attraction.

“Let’s face it, as you engage
in fund-raising efforts you've
got to sell yourself and your - J
programs,” Orr observed. : Orr
‘Your upper-income people will tune in to public Service radio
more than other stations.”

Like Davidson, UNCC plans to play some jazz and folk
music in addition to classical.

“We have a jazz program right now; we Aiko to continue
that. We certainly would be interested in good bluegrass and
folk,” said Orr.

Like Davidson, UNCC plans to broadcast some educa-
tional and public affairs programming.

Orr said UNCC expects to soon become affiliated with
National Public Radio, a network reputed to offer many good
issue-oriented shows. He added that WFAE also hopes to do
some local-educational programs themselves.

Like Davidson, UNCC is dead set against having its
students play any rock music on the Air.

“Right now there are no plans for any rock,” declared Orr.

In fact, WFAE and WDAV bear so many similarities that
it has been publicly suggested that their two’ sponsoring
institutions should ‘get together and decide how to avoid a
conflict.

When asked if he had any plans to do this, Davidson's F)

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

Student Body President

Bruce Brown said Wednesday -
he believes the 1977 Trustee ~
directive calling for WDAV to —
become a classical music station;

is ‘‘unconstitutional,’’

Brown said the College Con-

stitution clearly considers
WDAYV a student organization.

“In this respect, the resolu-
tion is unconstitutional, be-
cause WDAV was not given
their rights as set forth in
Article XII.”

Brown continued, ‘‘What
‘bothers me the most is that
decisions were made without
respect to the WDAV Board of
Directors, the student Media
Board, or the Constitution.”

The SGA Senate unanimous-
ly resolved Tuesday to.send a
petition to the Trustees re-
garding WDAV.

According to Brown, the
petition will make the following
recommendations to the Trus-
tees:

‘‘_that they review the
WDAV programming.

‘“*_that they review the pro-

gramming requirements set for
November 15 in light of a
survey of the Charlotte area
radio audience.

“__that programming autho-
rity be returned to the WDAV
Board of Directors as set in the
1969 WDAV Constitution.

“that programming be de-
signed to satisfy the needs of
the total listening community,
rather than only that portion of
the community that will be
giving money.
~ “that they affirm WDAV
as a student organization, a
student radio station, serving
the listening area, while repre-
senting the College as an insti-
tution dedicated to cultural
enrichment and diversifica-

tion.”

~The Senate appointed a spe-

cial Committee to draw up the

final draft, scheduled for com-
pletion by this weekend.

: 2) ae,
STUDENT BODY President Bruce Brown says that the Trustee

directive concerning WDAV is ‘“‘unconstitutional.””

By GEOFF SPENCER.
Staff Writer AN:

This year the tuition activieaten up by the equally a-

ties tax is $5 higher than ever ~
before, according to the Comp-
troller’s Office, bringing to $45
the total amount every student
pays into the fund anually.

But already there is talk of
raising that amount again this
November.

When this year’s activities
tax revenue was distributed last
April by the joint student-facul-
ty Activities Tax Council, there
just was not. enough money to
go around to all the student
organizations clamoring for it.

stounding $69,952 asked for by
students. -

In trying to. bridge the
$11,000 gap, the: council was:
not only forced to slash some
organization’s budgets to the
bare bones, but decided to deny
one group any money at all.

Five months later, es hem:
tian Fellowship, ia till etrogs
gling for funds: Despite a $240
grant from the Union Board,
their budget is still short:

DCF President Mike Lins
said the group is planning a
Toke sae ok a ae

ting expenses and if that

Peay they may be forced to’

(see UNCC, page 3] oe
Committee leaves campus council intact =

solicit help from local churches.-
By DON CALDWELL Martha Sanford’s request to end sexual were successful in that we made students churches.
"he News Editor quotas in admissions policy. Sanford think about the issue. I also hope that the Lins said he feels DCF should
The Constitutional Review Committee addressed the committee, stating ‘I believe Trustees will being considering it. It’s only not ask the churches for money
(CRE) Wednesday unanimously rejected a, that the higher quota for males discrimi. a beginning, though hopefully the National until they make an effort to
proposal by President-SamuelSpencer to _ nates. against equally qualified female Organization of Women Chapter organized raise the money on their own. |
amend the 1976 Constitution by splitting applicants and “has has no sound logical or now can carry this on.” : He said he is not bitter about -
the Council on Campus and Religious Life.. rational. basis.”” She added, ‘I’m optimistic. The proposal. the Activities Tax Council’s
‘ According to Spencer, thé change would She further cited the qiotas as. contra. was well received, even though they felt it " refusal to fund them, although —
allow the councils to parallel those of the dicting Davidson’s attempt to “seek stu. was a matter of policy rather’than' a “‘It e unfortunate that we didn’t
Trustees and would thus promote coopera- dents of character, of general as well as - bart gents ae receive support.”
tion among faculty, students and trustees. academic ability, of loyalty to the ideals of Another request ‘by Spencer to split the College” Business Manager
Dean of Students: ‘Will Terry’ and Senior the College and of promise for future Advisory aaah on dane i Robert | |

Glen: Darbyshire pointed out that in its

‘present form the. pee < ad had been the

mosts effective of the advisory councils.
‘CRC member.and Student Body

President Bruce Brown commented, ‘‘The .

’ i he document as__ will recommend it,
committee agreed that it would be a _ The. Comi hittee did- not act on ct cosmetic changes in. t
philosophical mistake to. campus Proposal by Poener. including a switch | Aked iho fa tx nr

activity and religious. activity.”
‘The committee also discussed senior

usefullness.”” cans 2 of the Constitu-
tion.) :
Sanford also presented ' petition beesing

340 student: signitures in support of the

Sanford later commented, “I believe we

poy apna oi
The CRC then approved @ number of

(sce Committee, page 2)

