Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter ll, Business Manager

Volume LXVIN, Number Six

The difficulties with the radio station
have been out of the spottight for the past
couple of weeks, and people have started
asking “What’s going on with WDAV?” This
week the answer—the matter has been

‘Simmering, and what’s going on is coming 90 it alone and pursue a “successful

up Monday.

On that day the Executive Committee of
the Board of Trustees visits Davidson to
untangle the mess that has been made of
DAV.

Though the Trustees have allowed the
administration to spend in excess of
$75,000 for the station, the Monday visit
marks the very first time that Board
members will thoroughly and thoughtfully
consider the future of WDAV.

Students, listeners, and dollars—those
are the miatters at hand.

WDAV student media?

First, is or is not WDAV a student Media?

Davidson’s 1976 Constitution says that it
is; Trustee directives as implemented by the
administration say that it is not. One or the
other is wrong. Will the student staff of
WDAV .exercise primary. contro! over the
operation as do the students of other

Once and for all

October 13, 1978

interested in serving the needs of the
listening audience. >

On Monday, the Executive Committee
must decide’ whether to work with other
Chartottee stations to serve the public, or to

image.”

Dollars

Third, dollars.

When it comes to money matters,
Davidson is an unpredictable place. The
Academic Vice President sends out a memo
instructing professors to curtail photoco-
pying expenses in order to trim department
budgets, and a collective grumble emits
from the faculty. Such pettiness receives
attention, but few seem concerned about
the $75,000 plus that has been sent after
some vague and undefined notion of a
“high-quality” radio station.

Expenditures on WDAV are justified as
money sent after money; the College
provides the front-end. cash to establish a
high-quality radio station, the right peopie
listen to that station and are so impressed
that they donate to Davidson. That's
basically how. it works—money sent after

media, or will the students be subordinate
to hired professional staff? The struggle
between students and administrators for
control of the station has become a way of
life at WDAV; open communication occurs
only when the students compiain bitterly of
administrative heavy-handedness.

No one on campus today can quiet the
WDAV battleground. When the Executive
Committee arrives Monday, it must ‘declare
the station to be or not to be a student
media, and it must explain specifically how
students and administrators are to work
together.

Public service /relations

Second, what mix of public service and
public relations will WDAV offer its lis-
teners?

The administration has said that the
Station will 1) broadcast high-quality pro-
gramming to its audience of 2 mitlion, and
2) witl_ serve as a public relations ‘tool for
Davidson.

If the College has the interests of public

money,

But how much money can we justify
sending? There are certainly less expensive
ways of attracting the attention of potentia}
donors. The Davidson National Print and
Drawing Competition was one way. Many of
you remember the National, one of the
foremost competitions of its kind in the
country, and recall that it drew some of the
nation’s best artists and most discerning
(and wealthy) patrons of art to Davidson.

The National was so successful that.

cataloguing and preparing the huge number
of entries submitted outstripped the capaci-
ties of the handful who volunteered for that
chore. But instead of aiding an already-es-
tablished high-quality institution that at-

/
WDAV: ‘And Solomon said...’

Letter to the Editor
Trio disappointed

To the Editor: dents as well. Furthermore,

We're disappointed. We feel those interviewed were encou-
the impressions created by last raged to express their candid
week’s article concerning Trus- opinions about the 1987 pro-
tee interviews with hall advisors gram. (In fact, one administra-
were misleading. _ tor confirmed the diversity of

The overall tone, structure, responses.) _
and wording of the article | Secondly, in such phrases as
support the following miscon- “not exactly diverse,” and “the
ceptions: that the interviews group most likely to give...a
between Trustees and Hall Ad- good impression of what David-
visors wete arranged to “hood- son students are like,’’ the
wink” Trustees; that all Hall “article implies that Hall Advi-
Advisors are basically alike; sors are nothing more than
and that Melton himself assu- glorified salesmen for David-
med the above when he chose s0n. In reality, the initial
the Hall Advisors as partici. selection process seeks diversi-
pants. ty.

In actuality, as mentioned at _‘It is true that as a group Hall
the end of the article --on page Advisors believe in Davidson's
three-- the purpose of the ‘sense of community and ho-
interviews was not to give the nor.” Yet this belief does not
Trustees a “‘canned presenta- blind them to Davidson's weak-
tion”. In our opinion, the Hall nesses as implied in the article.

tracted nationwide attention ‘to Davidson, Advisors were chosen because_.Rather-this. commitment heigh-

the National was allowed to fold for lack of
funds.
Now the College is spending.$75,000 and
more on.a venture whose future promises
escalating costs for equipment mainte-

nance, operating expenses, and a host of -

other items.
In WDAV’s 10-watt days, the station was

service and its listeners uppermost in mind,
it has an obligation to coordinate WDAV’s
activities and programming with Chartotte’s
other “high-quality” radio stations (UNCC’s
WEFAE, et al). Coordination will insure that
area listeners are offered the widest
possible variety of quality music. To date,
however, none on the Board or in the
administration have publicly proposed such
cooperation.

Instead, there has been considerable talk
of a néed for a “structured format” and an
“image” for a “successfull” WDAV. Such
language makes one wonder if the College
isn’t more concerned with successfully
projecting a favorable image that it Is.

but a cheap one. Now that we’ve crossed
the bridge to high power and the adminis-
tration has begun to play with WDAv, the
toy is becoming mighty expensive.

Next Monday must not pass without a
careful Trustee evaluation of how much the
College can afford to spend on its radio
station.

All at Davidson are weary of.the ceaseless
bickering between students and administra-
tors over the future of WDAV. We urge the
Executive Committee to study the matter
with care and settle the disputes once and
for alt.

—Philip Duncan

ridiculed as the students’ toy. It was a toy,

of their unique perspective of tens their awareness of prob-
Davidson. Not only do they lems and of the need to deal
have their own experiences to. With them. We feel that this
fodge the school, but also the Concern, manifested in con-
various experiences and en- structive criticism, is the only
counters of over 20 other stu- (see Implications page 5)

. Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA LYMAN A. COLLINS, U

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT HARRY GREYARD

Copy Editor Special Assignments Editor
‘DAVE ISENHOWER ANN SHEAFFER

Production Manager Carcolation Manager
AMANDA HALL KAREN LONG
Department aselstants: News—Don Caldwell, Carole Lopteon: Sports -Mike Britt, John
Wilingham: Editorial Pagy-~Sheri Gravett: Photography —Phil Howerton: Special Assign:
ments —Margaret Jackson: Production —Donya Boylston, Ralph Lasley, Mariellen Sewade:
Circulation —Ricky Wateon.
Published weekly in the avedemic t y by
; pean year (excep wing holidays and examination periods
Tig Lowapaper’ office ts an the third flocr of the Colege Union. Mailing address: Box 216,
Davideon, N. £8056; telephone: 892;2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year.
class postage peid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
