-Irv Wilson

Check Day Coming

...l’ve $@en you...

fe been outside of myself.

“Not §

You secre
on the cc
a ® st id st!
Mirror-image HP
And whet
I’ve seen you when you cried and tears streamed utge to w
down your. face onto the vinyl tablecloth leaving lean” on
evidence of the circumstances. naw, it al
I’ve seen you when you loved and lost and | never When yoi
laughed because “loving” is rough and you’re not being tire
always as strong as you think you are. You want
work and
I’ve seen you when you longed to be a woman but Yeah, yol
feared it like a child. nigger.
lve seen you when the miles pulled you from arms land wt
of those you love and you stood alone and scared ip you
among shadowed faces and ‘beneath strange skies... ee

Through the paper thin'wall is the muffled cry of a baby
and the slow dragging of its mother's feet..

just another mouth to feed.
And as the child suckles, the mother looks blankly
‘in the mirror at the image “‘he” once called pumpkin-head
and she remembers how she giggled girlishly and realizes
he was probably mocking the shape of. her head.

She sighs...the baby stirs.

And she stares blankly out through the pasty windows at
the dull darkness, she remembers the good, old, young times
when she found it hard to go home because she was diggin’
on a guy with processed hair; and ehe recalls wanting to
be a model:: '

And the child stirs.

She rocks it gently to an old Gladys Knight record she
used to sing to her lover who she found out too late
didn’t like kids..

and she gazes at the small bundle in her arms resting

‘peacefully...
she sighs...tomorrow is check dey.

, ‘ ay * ae

Shouting Out

Yell it out at walls and windows where folks stare
‘cause ,hell, they don’t pay your rent or love your man.

And yeah , lady, | know the time but my watch is atjhome
but ,yeah, | know the “times”; they’re hard for young
folks searchin’ and old folks waitin’.

Yell it out at walls and windows ‘cause you work for

a livin’ ,baby, and maybe you don’t have a DEGREE but
you know what’s right ‘cause you've lived enough

to feel the pain but not long enough to die.
