The Davidsonian

~ March:31, 1978...

Eumenenean Society changes with the times — s

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Along with the Philanthropic Society,
the Eumenean Society shares a place as
the oldest student organization on
campus. ~The Society was founded in
1837, the same year as the College, and
the present Hall was built in 1849.

The prim’ iction between the
Eu and Phi wuco for the nineteenth
century resteu in their respected mem-
berships; the former was composed of
out-of-state boys, while the latter limi-
ted its rolls to North Carolina residents.
For this reason Woodrow Wilson, who
resided in Columbia, joined the Eu
Society,and he has come to be its most
prominent member.

Aside from fostering debate and
public address, the Eu Society joined the
boys of Phi Hall in sponsoring the
earliest forms of student government at
Davidson, relates Dr. Chalmers David-
son. According to Davidson, ‘‘they also
had the first student athletics, which

included horseshoes, hockey, and base-
ball.

“Along with the Phi Society, they
published Davidson's first annual in
1895. When Davidson joined intercolle-
giate athletics the colors of the two
Societies, pink and blue, were used.”
However, when Davidson first spon-
sored a football team, necessity caused

the colors to be changed to red and

black.

In the nineteenth century, before
Davidson conferred honorary degrees,
the two Societies would give honorary
memberships. Most notable among

The New South suprises §

those accepted from the Eu Society was
an honorary membership held by John
C. Calhoun. Legend holds that Peter
Stuart Ney was also an honorary
member.

_In the first twenty years following
World War II, the Eumenean Society

”

experienced considerable decline as a
campus organization, as did its counter-
part, the Philanthropic Society. David:
son equates this decline with the
disinterest in politics and debate during
peace time.

blugrass listeners

By SAM CURRIN
Staff Writer

The vast majority of Davidson stu-

dents are addicted to hard rock and

cuscos.
The
fold:

sonian

1 ry < { hi nreea
purpose of tli AFUICLE 1 tnree-

to add diversity to The David

with respect t¢ { reviews

plastic stereophonically recorded enter

tainment discs, to pay tribute to
musicians whose tremendous talent is

indisputable yet seldom recognized, and

to invite the reader to enjoy one of the
richest forms of-music available on
recording, bluegrass music.

It is of the utmost importance at this
time (without denying their common
heritage) to explicitly emphasize that
bluegrass and country music are by no

means the same genre. This line of
distinction was perhaps most definitive-
ly drawn when Bill Monroe first stepped
on stage at the Grand Ole Opry in

Nashville, Tennessee, in 1939 with a
band he called The Bluegrass Boys. The
name came from his native state of
Kentucky but the music came from his
heart.

Bill’s music was revolutionary; it
combined consistently tasteful: fiddle
and mandolin breaks, solid rhythms,
and high pitched vocal harmonies with a

driving pace that had never been
obtained in traditional country music.
Country music originated around the
turn of the century with the introduction
of the guitar.into the Southern moun-

tains, forming a trio with fiddle and

banjo (not to mention some no doubt
quite objectionable . toothle rooning
about incest and the like).
However, it was not until Negro blues
fiddling, predominate in'the Deep Sout}
ina nf lence
ienaissance cular reels Trish horn-

pipes, and New Orleans ragtime that

fiddling
was formed. The man.that put all this
together into a coherent style was

what we now know as bluegrass

Chubby Wise, and he was among those
on stage at the Grand Ole Opry in 1939
with Bill Monroe.

‘Bluegrass is a style of music which
from, its birth in 1939 has progressed
steadily; a style of music rich in heritage
and as contagious as small pox.

Bluegrass has become quite diversi-
fied over the past twenty years. Earl
Scruggs revolutionized banjo picking,
which was only further revolutionized by

Bill Keith with his melodic or chromatic
technique. The guitar was removed from
its unheralded role as simply a rhythm
instrument by the late Clarence White,

and was shown to be quite effective
(today considered almost indespensible)
as a lead instrument. Thus due to the
great variety of styles considered under

the general heading of bluegrass, shop-
ping for bluegrass albums when one is
unfamiliar with the music can be very
disappointing.

I am going, to make a suggestion for
anyone that may be interested) in
expanding their record collection to
include bluegrass. It is a very simple test

However, the political activism of the
sixties, encouraged by the devastating
and unpopular Vietnam conflict, caused
a resurgence of interest within the Eu-
menean Society. While the Philanthropic
Society (see last week’s Davidsonian)
continued its staunch conservatism, the

(Gregg Strader)

members of the Eu Society took on a
liberal stance, opposing the undeclared
war.

As the two Societies regained their
prominence, Davidson’s fraternity sys-
tem experienced considerable upheaval.

that will determine conclusively if in fact
you like bluegrass music. Buy an album
called The New South. To me it

represents a high point in bluegrass
recording. The technical proficiency of
the musicians is amazing, the quality of

the recording (Rounder Records) is
excellent, and the singing (featuring the
“boy with the golden tonsils,’’ Tony

Rice) boasts brilliant three-part har-
monies. There are two extremely well
executed instrumental numbers, ‘‘Sally
Goodin”’ (the best version I’ve heard),

and ‘‘Nashville Blues’’. I am quite sure
the album will be a pleasant surprise to

most everyone. New World Records on
South Boulevard (also a location on
Independence Blvd.) offers a fine blue-

grass selection, and the people who work
there are quite cooperative. The prices

MARK HELMS. ’80, picks away on his banjo. The banjo. b
music, in the only true American string instrument.

Now that America’is. once again at
peace, the fraternities here are on the rise
once more, while the trends that causes
Eu Hall to thrive have taken a back seat.

In an effort to roll with the tide, the
Eumenean Society accepts women stu-
dents as members and no longer requires
male participants to wear coats and ties
to its meetings. Last year the Society
worked to produce a constitution that is
more applicable to the present.

While the crystal chandelier in Phi
Hall has received much acclaim, its
“cousin” in the Eu Hall has an equally
‘fascinating background. This brass fix-
ture, hung in 1885, has the distinction of
being the first gas.powered light in
North Mecklenburg:

When Eu Hall.was ‘remodeled in the
1950's, carpenter’s found an interesting
bottle in her attic. This container was
found to hold.a scroll ‘dated 1849, which
provided a brief history of the Society.

“Of particular interest,’’ noted David-
son, ‘‘is how the scroll was ended.’’ He
went on to explain that in 1849 the North
Carolina members of Phi Hall would
have had antisecessionist leanings, while

_the out-of-state members of the Eume-

nean Society would have been more
likely to favor withdrawal from the
union. Apparently, this was not the
case. Said Davidson, the Eumenean
scroll ended with ‘‘may we all continue to
be proud to be Americans.”

Currently, the: Eumenean Society in
on the National Register of Historic
Places. John Parkerson is President, and
prospective members -may contact’ him
at the PAX house.

asic to bluegrass
(Gregg Strader)

are reasonable as well.
I have included below a list of several
other albums that are fine representative

albums that I feel you will appreciate. I
hope you will buy and enjoy The New
South. For me it was the beginning of a

new experience with musical entertain-
ment. Give it a chance.

1. Doyle Lawson— Tennessee Dream
(excellent instrumental)

2. Dan Crary —Lady’s Fancy
3. Tony Rice— Guitar

4. Sam and Alan (Sam Bush and Alan
Murde, instrumental)

5. David Grisman Quintet (jazz-blue-

grass fusion, instrumental)
