April 7, 1978

The Davidsonian

5

Dangers of nuclear waste examined

In the next four issues of The
Davidsonian the Davidson Public In-
terest Research Group will present a
series of articles taken from a recent
PIRG publication entitled ‘‘Nuclear
Cargo in North Carolina: What are the
Risks?’ Readers are invited to respond
to our articles by way of Letters to the
Editor.

Much attention has been given to the
hazards of nuclear energy which relate
to the operation of reactors and to the
long-term storage of radioactive
wastes. The dangers involved in the
transportation of nuclear materials,
however, have received less publicity.
North Carolina PIRG’s interest in the
transportation issue was raised by a
trucking incident that occured outside
of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, in
October 1976. The lid came off of a
crate carrying radioactive materials,
which luckily did not spill. This
incident caused PIRG to become more
aware of the potential for transporta-
tion accidents involving nuclear mate-
rials and led‘us to undertake this
study of the transportation situation.

This report examines the dangers
associated with radioactive shipments.
It also examines current regulations
and efforts made to control these
dangers. Finally, the study explores
further possibilities for assuring the
safety of North Carolinians as they are
exposed to the risks of radioactive
shipments travelling along the high-
ways and railways.

The Nuclear Fuel Cycle

In order to understand why the
production of nuclear energy involves
the routine transportation of danger-
ously radioactive materials, a basic
understanding of the steps involved in
fueling a nuclear reactor is necessary.
These steps are referred as the ‘‘nuclear

Opinion

fuel cycle.’’ The fiuclear fuel cycle
varies for each type of reactor now in
use or under development. Currently,
all of the commercial reactors in
operation are light water reactors of
two types: boiling water reactors and
pressurized water reactors. Inside
these reactors the repeated and control-
led splitting of nuclei of heavy atoms,
such as uranium-235, results in a
self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction
that continually releases huge amounts
of energy. The fuel for these reactors is
made of a combination of uranium
isotopes. Because approximately 99.3
per cent of natural uranium is non-
fissionable uranium-238, large quanti-
ties of uranium are processed and
enriched to contain higher percentages
of fissionable U-235. The fuel produced
in this way is used in the form of
uranium-oxide pellets contained in
metal rods, which are bundled together
into what are called fuel elements or
assemblies, placed inside the reactor.
The fuel production cycle is an exten-
sive process during which radioactive
uranium travels the routes between
mines, mills, and conversion, enrich-
ment, and fabrication facilities before it
reaches the reactor. :

In the course of reactor operation the
amount of U-235 in each fuel assembly
is depleted, and the various products of
the fission process accumulate until it
becomes necessary to exchange a
portion of the spent fuel for fresh fuel.
About one-third: of the fuel in a
pressurized water reactor and about
one-fifth of the fuel in a boiling water
reactor is replaced each year. In the
normal functioning of the fuel cycle,

spent fuel is sent to a reprocessing’

plant where unused uranium can. be
recovered and can re-enter the cycle
again at the enrichment stage. Other

materials present in spent fuel include
highly radioactive waste products
(commonly called high-level wastes),
such as plutonium, strontium-90, and
cesium-137, which must be safely
stored away for thousands of years.
Plutonium is one of the more important
newly created elements found in spent
fuel, since it can be separated, like
unused uranium, and used as fresh fuel
in a reactor. The recycling of plutoni-
um, as a supplement to uranium
enrichment, has been done only ou an
experimental basis. Unitl recently it
was being seriously considered as a
standard large-scale operation for the
future. However, the Carter adminis-
tration has recently set forth a policy
against the use of plutonium as fuel in
nuclear reactors, and future develop-
ments are uncertain.

The nuclear fuel cycle produces
waste materials other than those found
in spent fuel. During reactor operation,
waste consisting of highly radioactive
sludges and resins accomulate, and
other solutions and materials become
contaminated with usually small quan-
tities of fission products. There are still
other wastes consisting of chemicals,
filters, clothing, used containers, and
damaged equipment involved in the
reactor’s operation. At other stages of
the fuel cycle--in the chemical proces-
sing, enrichment, and fuel fabrication
facilities— many types of wastes of
varying radioactive levels are also
produced. All of these wastes must be
removed and stored away.

The future of nuclear power expan-
sion may revolve around the. develop-
ment of high temperature gas-cooled
reactors, which differ substantially
from light water reactors, particularily
in the type of fuel they use. The high
temperature gas-cooled reactor uses a

A conversation with myself:As the
black vinyl sings its simple tune...

By RORY CORNISH
Guest Columnist
Roxy banged out its simple tune as

Julian unexpectedly arrived: ‘Though

the world is my oyster, it’s only a

shell...’’ Two old friends conversed, one

real, one imaginary. Continually the
needle swiftly sped along its appointed
groove.

“Well, it’s damn decent of you to pop
in like this; sit down and have a gin.”’
He looked uncomfortable in his English
clothes--the English fish out of water.
A mental note to lend nim a T—shirt
winded around my brain but. disap-
peared somewhere amongst the lyrics.

‘‘Nice weather,’’ he remarked.
“Yes,” came the answer, ‘‘quite nice
actually; not at all like the old
country.” “Oh no, actually it’s quite
sunny, not like the old place,’’ he
echoed. “It’s always sunny in David-
son,” I affirmed thoughtfully. ‘“‘Cana-

dian club love, a place in the country,
everyone’s ideal...’’ sang the vinyl
voice.

“Well, how’s it going?’’ the friend
enquired. “‘Oh fine, just super actually.
Couldn’t be better. I mean all this sun
and things. Another gin?’’ A sigh,
‘Not like London of course. No rush
here, everyone takes it easy. One has
time.to ponder. Nice weather. Life, like
the proverbial gondola, just glides by.”’

“Funny you should mention that,”’ a
sharp retort. ‘‘What has happened to
the old gusto?”’ ‘‘Another gin?”’ I
inquired. Not to be parried, Julian
persisted. ‘‘God, you were always the
one to attack suburban life as some
kind of desert unreality; that society
was some kind of vast conspiracy
plotting to shape individual conscious-
ness to suit its own ends!”

“Oh, the old American Lit. bit,’ I
admitted uncomfortably. ‘‘Come on,
man, I have been here for seven months
and thoughts like that are old hat, they
just aren’t necessary. Let’s not play
the British undergraduate part here;
that’s the projection of a depressed
society. Too much questioning isn’t
going to get you anywhere. Look, old
chap, we have two lives; the life we
learn and the life we live with after
that.”

Refusing another drink, Julian turn-
ed to the window. As my vision moved
from the Englishman in his unsuitable
apparel to the sunny day storming

through the window, a Robert Brown-

ing quote came to mind—‘‘Oh to be in
England, now that April is there. And
he who ever wakes in England sees
some morning unaware.”’

The musical message was clear:
‘This brave new world is not like
yesterday, it can take you higher than
the Milky Way. Now I’m blinded I can
really see.”’ ‘Everything is possible
here Jules, that is if one works for it:
fast money, fast living, fast food,
instant fulfillment! Remember our
previous conversation on Herzog — only
a special type of lunatic expects to
inculcate his principles and to worry
about that only leads to the agony of
conciousness and a separate being. Oh,
we want none of that here.”’

As ‘Street Life’ came to its allotted
end the voice defied ‘‘education is an
important key, yes, but the good life is
never won by degrees.”’

It’s uncanny how cliches can readily
pass for thought and, to come to that,
vice versa. ‘‘Nice weather,” said Jul-
ian, ‘‘not like the old place,’’ came the
backing vocals.

highly enriched uranium, instead of
low-enriched uranium, as well as
another highly radioactive material,
thorium. If many high temperature
gas-cooled reactors are operating in the
future, the number of highly radioac-
tive‘shipments will increase significant-

i . _ _— ,
" Dangers of Radioactivity

When the heavy atoms used as fuel
inside a nuclear reactor are split,
radioactive nuclides are produced
which are the unstable twins of natural
elements. As they decay into more
stable forms, these nuclides emit
harmful high-energy rays and particles
of three major types: alpha particles,
beta particles, and gamma rays. Alpha
particles are the most massive of the
three, but are the slowest and least
penetrating. They can be stopped by a
piece of paper or a thickness equal to
the outer layer of skin. Precisely
because their penetration distance is
slight, alpha particles are the most
energy intensive of the three. Damage
to humans will result when alpha-e-
mitting substances are ingested or
inhaled and therefore brought into
contact with internal tissues and
organs. Beta particles can be stopped
by a thin sheet of metal or even
clothing, and the top layer of skin will
reduce their effects on a living organ-
ism which has received only external
exposure. Gamma rays are essentially

‘extremely energetic x-rays which can

pass right through a human being,
causing much disruption to tissues
along the way. Because of the differ-
ences in mass, electric charge, and
energy which characterize these parti-

.cles and rays, radiation from different

nuclei will cause different kinds of
damage to living organisms. Some will
harm thousands of cells, others will
destroy only a few.

As high energy particles emitted by
radionuclides bounce off other material
particles in their path, they transfer
their energy to the bombarded matter.
In living cells this radiation knocks
molecules away from cell structures
and can break chromosomes, thus
producing genetic mutations. Damage
caused in this way may affect repro-
ductive cells and produce mutations
that will be passed on to future
generations in the form of fetal and
infant deaths, and physical and mental
deformities. Damage to other tissues
can cause various forms of leukemia,
cancer of the nervous system, bone,
thyroid, or lung cancer, miscarriages,
cataracts, shortening of life span, and
damage to unborn children. Both high
and low level radiation doses can cause
harm. The effects are cumulative and
may not even become evident for long
periods of time. In addition,» some
groups of people, such as the very
young and the very old, are more
susceptible to injury than others.
Certain organs in the body, such as
those in the reproductive system, are
also especially sensitive to radiation
exposure,

_The Davidsonian weicomes
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for publica-
tion must be signed. We}
reserve the right to edit letters
over 300 words.

Mail letters to The Davidso-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036, or bring them by the
newspaper's office in the Col-
lege Union. Letters received by
Monday night will ordinarily be
rinted in that week’s issue. —

