Gi -Maerin Bente. casas Menege’

September 29, 1978

Dear Gentlemen ‘of the Bos-d ‘of headless:
F ‘We are glad to'see you hure for a special
- session to distuss’ Davidson's 1987 Cam-
- paign. Fund-raising is a tedious but
. essential task, and if Davidson’s financial
future is to be secure, the Board must lend
full and active support to the 1987
Though the. Board will not officially
discuss regular business this weekend, you
should know what has been happening at
Davidson this fall in order to make
_ well-advised policy decisions at regular
Board meetings later in the year. Allow us
to cover two topics that have been widely
discussed ‘during Beptomhgr:

WDAV: It’s not s6 much what has been
done as it is how it’s been done. According
to the College Constitution, WDAV is a
student media organization, afforded the
same rights and responsibilities as other
student media, governed by the Student
Media Board, a diverse body representing
all segments of the College community.

But since the Constitution was adopted
two years ago, both the students and the
community have lost the control over WDAV
that is granted to them in the Constitution.
Currently, the policy decisions regarding
WDAV are made by the Board and
implemented by a few administrators. This
collapsing of the community’s influence
over a student media outlet into a handufi of
top-level governors is a clear violation of the
College Constitution.

The Constitution requires that a// mem-
bers of the’ community ‘are to have a
meaningful voice in shaping the direction of
all student - media (including ‘WDAV)

ah Oo

é * = September

through the Media Board. We recommend
“that the Board bring its WDAV policy
directives ‘into line with that requirement.

Code of Faculty Hiring and Evaluation
Procedures: Here again, democratic partici-
pation by the community is the key.

Since last spring, Academic Vice Presi-
dent Zimmermann and the administration
have worked in good faith with the Faculty

” Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) to

establish hiring and evaluation guidelines
acceptable to all.

With some revision to eliminate language
hinting of religious exclusivity, the Zim-
mermann-PAC Code (now in its third draft)
sets forth.an acceptable philosophy for
faculty hiring, development, and evalia-
tion. The flaw of the Code is that the
administration is almost singularly respon-
sible for putting that philosophy into
practice.

The administration guides the school for
the Trustees and must necessarily influence
personnel decisions, but teaching is done
by professors for students, and both of
these groups should bear. meaningful
responsibility in personnel decisions.

We reconimend and ask that the Board
request the administration and faculty to‘
pursue the establishment of an Evaluation
and Tenure Committee composed of admi-
nistrators, faculty, and students. With
these groups working together to bulld an
outstanding faculty, Davidson advances
one step closer to excellence.

Sincerely,
Philip: Duncan
Editor

The full picture

Why are there no students on Davidson's
Board of Trustees? Though no one seems to
have given this question much considera-

tion, clear thinking reveals that adding three:

students to the Board as full voting
members would benefit ‘the Coliege com-
munity. . Re

Because it wields the power to set

Davidson’s general policies, direct the»

President, and influence long-range goals,
the Board of Trustees is certainly the most
influential group of people associated with.

tees exists. A student may corner a member
of the Board at a Trustee reception, but how
much influence can that student expect to
have in a hurried conversation amidet a
crowd of people?

The SGA President, a déninctitig visitor
at full Board meetings, has limited input
into. subcor nittee deliberations (where
Trustee work is. pone) and is little

the College. in short, the Board is thes and. give tl

governing body for Davidson. :
Charged with this- responsibility to over-
see and to guide, the Trustees must pay

Trustees: in — reed cuttin ots
nput + Aon seteaogies bolts of
nd sie epeegpot me

tly no. meaningful avenue of com-
5 between “students. and. Tus.

_ truly terested na opinions during He
will maintain a concer for the College as

an_alumnus. Both Vanderbilt. and Wake
. Forest Universities have added students to

‘their Board of Trustees with favorable

results. it is time for Davidson to take this
—* step for :

Bill Barnett and. Philip_Duncan

Editor’ 8 Note--This letter, com-
mending the actions of Geor-
geann Vagt '82 at the Freshman
Regatta, was passed on to The
Davidsonian by President
Spencer.

‘Dear Dr. Spencer,

A note to let you know of a

very workmanlike and brave

performance by a Davidson
Freshman, Georgeann Vagt.

At the beginning of the.
freshman ‘creative boat” race ,
at the lake Sunday afternoon, a
young man apparently fainted
and was separated from the raft
that he was riding or shoving
along in the water. I first
noticed that a young lady
(Georgeann) was saying’ “Hey
somebody. come and get this
guy!’’ I think she said it a
second time as a couple of big
Davidson students noticed and
ran to help her, and I ran for a

Letter to the Editor
Blackwell applauds
coed’s heroic effort

thee tet young man said he just
suddenly gave out of wind and
he didn’t know what happened.
He lay on the grass with
another student attending him
for quite a while (perhaps two
hours) with a severe -headache,
which made me think he ha:
fainted in the water.

Anyhow the young lady, to
my mind, indeed, saved his life
and should be commended for
her entire action. She seemed
somewhat surprised that she
couldn’t get enough hold on the
young man to hold. his hea!
entirely free of the water.
making me think he was nearly
unconscious in her arms, ani!
but for her none would have
seen the young man until too
late. :

Taylor Blackwell
The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.

baron

News Editors

Dopertment esalotante— News — Dom
Atm Page —Sheri Gravett; Focus —Coal

: Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA LYMAN A. COLLINS, II
BILL BARNETT HARRY GREYARD

cr
senor “BANE wennowen ‘pill Aasienments Bion
i se

Cadwell, Sports—'Mike Britt, John Willingham:

M ; ore a ta cea

Islet sikh sommes rnin! Scag idignssocebente oreo

D ates te hdr th Cai Ui, hg en Box 218,
cee postage pid atthe US. P Exe Rs Rati,

The Davicdsonian's Rilintial Based — the edtner, cect nr bse, a er

Pa ae cast tapiea tox the mewepaper's tod
bees ee age lutions eudhatae crdine tageace tal roast its edad, ‘tho apistons
ee eventos de mat saeenectiy aprennt the view of ash mei o

oe oeription sieee RAO yee Second

-

