Philip D. Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager

Volume LXVII, Number Twenty

March 31, 1978

Proceed with care

When we heard a year ago that Davidson
College planned to expend considerable
sums to establish a high-power radio
station on campus, many of us sought to
discover what advantages and benefits
such a station would offer.

Money after money

Proponents of the switch to high power
argued that the “new” WDAV-FM would
become a servant to the community and a
leader in quality radio programming. As
such, the station would attract attention to
Davidson, impress the people of Greater
Charlotte, and convince them to donate to
the College.

Cost to establish the station would be
considerable, the proponents admitted,
but the expenditures would be money sent
after money. In effect, they explained,
Davidson spends x dollars on the high
power radio station, and the public
relations benefit of the station stimulates
contributions, bringing us the original x
dollars plus more money that could be
used in all areas of the College’s
development program.

A year ago there was optimism that the
above initial expenditures, of a subscrip-
tion service, a subcarrier broadcasting
service, a Davidson sports network—fund-
raisers that would bring in enough to
balance WDAV’s: books after an estimated
yearly operating budget of $25,000 took its
toll.

Unrealistic hopes

Last year | feared that these optimistic
hopes were overblown, and nothing has
happened since then to make me change
my mind.

We are now told that it will be at least
two years before the station might be able
to support itself. In the meantime,
financial resources that could be directed
to the academic sector will be funded into
a high-power radio station. My concern is
that WDAV will never bring in more money
that it spends, that it will be a white
elephant, a public relations showpiece

that drains our tuition dollar year after
year.

Remember the students

But my concerns are of secondary
importance at this time. The fact we live
with today is that the College is irretrieva-
bly committed to a high-power radio
station—the Trustees have willed it so,
and so it shall be. Since many of the
Trustees are successful businessmen, we
must trust thay they believe WDAV can
raise money for Davidson College as it
provides a community service to the
Charlotte area. In placing my trust in their
‘business sense, | ask that they remember
that public relations is secondary to
‘Davidson’s main task, student develop-
iment. Carefully spent, properly directed
:monies do more to improve the calibre of 2
‘college than onstentatious, money-fling-
‘ing “image enhancers.”

Difficult task ahead

The task of WDAV Director Don Lovell,
Director of Communigations Martha Ro-
berts, and Station Manager Carrington
Thompson and his staff is a challenging
and a most difficult one. They must
remember that in addition to its role of
servant to the community, WDAV will
always have to attend to the interests of
the campus which is its base. The
programming must not become so Char-
lotte-oriented that the students become
unable to identify with their radio station,
paid professional staff must remain very
limited, and in the give-and-take of
decision-making at WDAV, the desires. of

student staffers must remain balanced .
with the desires of the administration and -
the Trustees. ete

Our duty as Davidson students is to —

assist WDAV as it makes final prepara-
tions to go high-power. For on May 1 a’
potential audience of two million will be
judging Davidson when they hear WDAV.

c —Philip D. Duncan

What makes a good newspaperman? The answer is easy. He knows
everything. He is aware not only of what goes on in the world today,
but his brain is a repository of the accumulated wisdom of the ages.
He is not only handsome, but he has the physical strength which
enables him to perform greats feats of energy. He gan go for nights on
end without sleep. He dresses well and talks with charm. Men admire
him; women adore him; tycoons and statesmen are willing to share
their secrets with him. He hates lies and meaness and sham, but he
keeps his temper. He is loyal to his paper and to what he looks upon
as the profession; whether it is a profession, or merely a craft, he
resents attempts to debate it. When he dies, a lot of people are sorry,
and some of them remember him for several days.

—Stanley Walker, New York Herald Tribune, 1924

Opinion

Peace,politics clash

By STEPHEN V. GOLD
Asst. News Editor

An increasing number of
Davidson students are expres-
sing a desire to become better
acquainted with the ‘‘outside”’
world, as is evident in the recent
formation of Project Peace.

That the student body is
becoming more interested in
world affairs is a good sign. We
at Davidson are fortunate to
receive a somewhat more per-
sonal and liberal education than
most schools offer, but we cheat
ourselves: when we cut ourselves
off from the outside world.

Let us remember, however,
that there is.a vast difference
between opening a whole mind
to the world, and opening a
narrow mind. If we are to strive
for awareness and knowledge of
the outside world, we must rise
above our small world of beliefs
here and open-mindedly view
the entire realm.

It is-easy to take sides and
argue an issue when we do not
know or understand the oppos-

ing viewpoints. This is especia-
lly true when student apathy or
lack of opposition (because. of
our homogeneous community)
is prevalent.

Project Peace wishes to ‘‘pro-
mote student awareness as well
as take practical action to-aid
conflict victims.’’ (Hopefully
other people in need of help, but
not involved in war, will not be
forgotten.) This is a commend-
able goal, but in the interest of
peace let us remember that, in
the Middle East, casualties
were suffered on both sides of
the line. Why did no one on
campus offer to help an Israeli
family?

If politics are removed from
the issue, what remains are
human beings, and who is to
judge that any needy person,
whether capitalist, communist,
blaek, white, Arab, Jew, on one
side of a river or on the other
side, is undeserving of aid?

Political awareness, and an
individual effort to stand up
and defend our own political
beliefs, are important in our
overall quest for knowledge.
But politics can play no part in
a serious effort to help people.
When politics become a part of
our understanding, then our
goals of helping people are
forgotten, and party and natio-
nal lines are drawn.

We, as a searching and
concerned student body, must
remember that it is necessary to
always keep an open mind.

Without one, peace will never
be possible.

students of Davidson College.

the Board. ©

Executive Editor
LYNAN A. COLLINS, 11

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT JIMENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD DAVE NASH

News Editors Features Editors Sports Editor
PAM CAMERRA ESTHER BRUCE BARRY SACHTJEN
DENNIS MCLAWHORN BILL PEEPLES
Editorial Page Editor Focus. Editor Managiftg Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH ANN GARNER MARSHALL WADDELL.
Graphics Editor : i
PATSY DANIELS Inside Art Editor Photography Editors
MARGARET MILES DAVID LITAKER
GREGG STRADER
Production Manager Copy Editor Speci: i i
ial Ass ts Editor
AMANDA HALL DAVID ISENHOWER PANN SHEAFFER
Circulation Manager Advertising Manager
IGNACIO LOPEZ g ADAIR GREEN

Department assistants: News—Stephen Gold; Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham; 1
Focus—Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments—Margaret Jack Circulati Karen Long.

Published weekly in the academic year [except during holidays and examination periods) by '

The news, r's office is on the third floor of the Colle i ili
: pape’ ge Union. Mailing address: Box 218,
Davidson N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second
class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

The Davidsonian's Editorial Board—the editor, executive editor, senior editors and editorial :
page editor—select the topics for the newspaper's lead editorials.
While the editorials reflect exchange of ideas between all members of the Board, the opinions

expreseed are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the view of each member of

sp VST

