‘_- 4A—n

Tha Pia. hn i

The Davidseonian

Philip Duncan, Editor

G. Martin Hunter.II, Business Manager

Volume LXVIIil, Number Two

September 15, 1978

: Forgotten a

In the midst of the battle currently
raging over who should control radio
station WDAV, something very important
has been forgotten. That forgotten factor
is the Constitution of Davidson College
adopted in 1976.

The Constitution established a Student
Media Board, a diverse group with
members from each segment of the
College community, and granted the
Board extensive authority over a// College-
sponsored student media at Davidson.
According to Article 11, Section 5 of the
Constitution, the students, faculty, admi-
nistrators, and media representatives on
the Board are to be “responsible for
student media.” The Board “authorizes
College-sponsored media” staffed by stu-
dents, reviews the budgets and the
finances of the various media, and
oversees the appointment and conduct of
editors (written media) and general mana-
gers (electronic media.) Judging from this
impressive list of responsibilities, the
Media Board was clearly conceived in the
Constitution asa broad-based group
representing all segments of the College

community that was to have the final say.

subject to Trustee approval, on any
significant matters: involving. the student
media,

When the first Media Board was
selected and set about its work in 1977, all
the student media. save one fell in line
under its jurisdiction. The one excep-
tion—WDAV. The WDAV Board of Direc-
tors, a group laden with DAV staffers and
adminstrators connected to the Commu-
nications Department, refused to work as
a subcommittee of the Media Board and

asserted its independence. from-the Board. —

The DAV Board continued to work closely
with the administration in establishing
policy for the radio station.

In 1977, The Davidsonian warned of the
closed-house nature of the DAV Board and
the chummy relationship between media
and administration. The newspaper asked
that decisions regarding the radio. sta-
tion’s future be handied by the Media
Board, a more diverse group with a
broader perspective and less direct con-
nections with the Administration. The
warning should have been » for now
the WDAV Board, all along only a

quasi-official body with an informal state-
ment of purpose, has been swallowed up
by the administration. Using the newfound
rationale that WDAV is not a student
media, but is rather a College radio
station, all important powers over the
radio station have seemingly been
stripped from the DAV Board and are now
consolidated in the hands of a few in the
administration and Board of Trustees.
By instituting a Media Board, the
Constitution granted all members of the

College community a voice in the opera-

tion of all the student media. But since the

Constitution was adopted two years ago, .

the community has lost control of a
student medium into which the adminis-
tration is pouring thousands of dollars.
The policy-shapers at WDAV now consti-
tute but.a small segment of the communi-
ty—the top-level administrators and Trus-
tees. This collapsing of the community’s
influence on a student media outlet into a
handful certainly violates the spirit and

‘possibly: violates the letter of the law as

set out in the Constitution.

To make matters worse, the adminstra-
tion and Trustees, having consolidated
power over WDAV, manage the station in a
style that can only be described as
bungling. Decision-making is a waffling
and capricious process—a statement of

policy released today may next month be |

as good as Confederate money after the

_ Civil War. Communications with st

BULL BARNETT MARRY GREYARD
Edivers Features Editors Spores Bditar
CHARLES ERWIN MERIDETH DURDEN BARRY SACHTJEN
DENNIS MCLAWHORN BILL PEEPLES
Bdisorial Editor Pocus Editor The Back Page Editer
Secale MURDAUGH . ANN GARNER LINDA HOOPES
Graphics Editor Photography Editor Special Assignments Eititor
BILL COWARD GREGG STRADER ANN SHEAFFER
Editor Production Manager
CAVE ISENHOWER AMANDA HALL
Advertising Manager Circulation Manager
ADAIR GREEN KAREN LONG
Department assistants —Newsx—Uen Caldwell, Npurts— Mike Brice. Jeha Willingham.

Edituriot Huge — Sheri Gravett: Focus —Carel Leptasa: Ph raphy — Pill Hi
— Margaret Joc i Pracher thems Daya Revision.

* Publesheud weekly in the academic wove lexcept during otidays anid examination pervade by
students of Davidson College.

The newspaper's office ts a can the phind floor of thee College Uniek Matting eddrexs: Bax 21%,
Devndsun, N.C. 28006. telépthome; 892,200 8.41 14%: subscription rate $6.00 per year. Second
vhaxs postage paid at the 1S Post Office, Davidson, NC

The Pha: ndsuniun > Editorial Board — the editor, gat ive editorn, senior editors, aad editorial
netect the topicn for the newnpaper's

Wr the eieras iret earhange of deus brewer of membre a he oad the opiniuns

expressed are thane of the st har' and do pot the view of cach member of

the Beard. +f

bs

staffers is sporadic, crisis-oriented,

sometimes non-existant. The Administta-
tion does not even have the good sense
and courtesy to tell the students when it
decides to close down the station’s post
_office box.

Two recommendations:

Those on the Media Board last year have
passed from office, but soon a new Media
Board will be selected. We urge that Board
to move quickly and vigorously to recap-
ture the rights afforded it in the Constitu-
tion, rights illegitimately proscribed by
others since 1976. Only.if the Media
Board oversees the radio station and the
other student media can we. be assured
that these outlets of information will
operate sensibly, remain truly responsive
to the College community, and prove. a
service to Davidson.

At the end of this month a committee of
Trustees, faculty, students, and adminis-
trators will be on campus to consider
revisions to the College Constitution. We
suggest that this committee thoroughly
evaluate the sections in the Constitutions
relating to the student media. If, as the
constitution now states, a// members of
the community are to have a meaningful
voice in shaping the direction of all
student media through. the Media Board,
let the revision committee recommend

that the Trustees remind the Administra-

tion of its constitutional obligations to the

Media Board. All significant matters .

regarding the radio station must first pass
through the DAV Board of Directors for full
discussion and then to the Media Board
for final deliberation and. decision.

—Phitip “Duncan

Opinion

Ethicist questions
artificial fertilization

Last week in this column Dr.
J.F; Hulka presented the atti-

he and his colleague, Andre E.

Hellegers, wrote for America
(August 19, 1978) raises the
ethical issues . involved.

McCormick, Professor of Chris-
tian Ethics at the Kennedy
Institute of Ethics in Washing-

ton’s Georgetown University, is
part of a federal advisory board
now to discuss these issues. _

Out There}

As early as 1897, artificial
insemination from the husband
(AIH) was condemned. by. Pope
Leo XIII. Flatly denying donor
insemination (AID) in 1949,
- Pope Pius XIF added that the
means of AIH did not justify
ee :

:\‘Procreation of a new life
(ahould bei deteeding to the wil
and plan of the Oreator.”

McCormick explains, ‘‘Ciear-
ly, Pius XII was appealing to
the personal character of the
conjugal act. Equivalently; his

argument was that AIH is
morally inappropriate because .
the child so conceived is not the’
fruit of an act of itself the
experience of personal love. For
the.good of the child and
ey ti he to
occur in such an atmosphere.”
Others have argued that the

- couple’s attitude toward AIH

ration of the “unitive and
procreative dimensions of mari-
tal intimacy’’ is a problem —
concerning any present or
future technique of less than
natural reproduction.

Yet particular ethical pro-
biems are involved within vitro’
fertiliation. Before achieving a
‘successful embryo transfer, Dr.
zygotes (fertilized ova). These
have been called abortions, but
McCormick adds: ‘‘In cases of

- abortion, there is usually pre-

sumed to be a conflict between
the existence of the conceptus
and some right of the mother,
whether it be to her life, her
physical health, her mental
health, or some other alleged
right. In the present case, there
is and can be no conflict
between the conceptus in vitro '
and such a maternal right.”
There is also a possibility of a
deformed fetus. Is it right, asks
(See DEFORMED, page 5)

: as

enAMAds

—

>
rs .
),
2

Letter to the Editor

Thanks a lot, folks

To the Editor:

Now that it’s over, we have.
the time to thank those who
helped make Freshman Orienta-
tion such a success. From the
hall counselors whose enthusi-

asm and efficiency kept the .

orientation on schedule to those

friends, especially Glen Darby- :

shire, who we pulled off the
"street and pressed into service
writing people hunt clues and

picking up freshmen from the —

airport, we are indebted to you

grateful for

efforts. We

also wish to the Dean of

‘Students | office for their help
and’
Finally, a . special note

amet ati oar riz]

te of
Dean
