vr ’

a BS Tagen —~
1900 room is the place to be

There’s ax old proverb that says: ‘If a man sits in one place long enough,
all the sights of the world will pass in front of him.” That may’not be quite
true at Davidson, but if you chose to sit in the 900 Room all this week, or at
least to go to every event held there during the week, you would find enough:
entertainment to keep you from studying for a while. Here’s a sample:

linda

As a replacement for Allen Gwynn, who couldn’t come on Friday, the 900
Room will be the site of a “‘Laugh-In”, as William Brown terms it, with Bugs
Bunny, Little Rascals, and Charlie Chaplin movies starting at 10 pm.

On Saturday, David Niblock and Allen Gwynn will be performing. This
duo was one of the favorites last year—their mellow guitar and vocal sound
will relax you. after the basketball game.

For those of you who have never been to a Wednesday Open Luncheon, this
_ week’s promises to be extra-special. Along with the yogurt, chef's salad, and
tea ($1.00), the luncheon will feature speaker Doug Marlette, cartoonist for
the Charlotte Observer.
. :

Thursday the choices are varied, and the events start at 4 pm, with
Joseph Beatty. Dr. Beatty is a professor of Philosophy at Williams College,
and will speak on ‘Because It Is Mine?: A Critique of Egoism.”’ At 7:30 pm
_ Dr. Prem Lata Sharma, Davidson’s guest professor of Indian music, will

- speak and perform on ‘‘Music in Hinduism.” The music changes at 10 as a
_ disco ends the day.

All you need is your ID. Check out the 900 Room sometime this week.

campus activities

- Friday, December 1
8 & 10:30 pm. ‘‘Julia”. Love Aud. $1.25. Winner of 3 Academy Awards!
10 pm. Movies. 900 Room (See story).

Saturday, December 2
10-4 pm. Third Annual Christmas Crafts Show. Morrison Room.
9:30 &.11 pm. Allen Gwynn & David Niblock. 900 Room. i

_ Monday, December 4
10-4 pm. Marson Fine Arts Sale and Exhibition. Gallery.
Tuesday, December 5

7 pm. Worship service. DCPC. a
7:30 pm. Debate, ‘‘Resolved: That Davidson College Should Establish
Sex-Blind Admissions Policy for Applicants.” Eu Hall.

Wednesday, December6 __
10 am. Winners Bracker finals of College Bowl. Chambers Gallery. .:

12:30 pm. Open Luncheon with Doug Marlette, Cartoonist, ‘Charlotte
- Observer. 900 Room.

8 pm. Fine Film. ‘The Gospel According to St. Matthews.” $1.50.

Thursday, December 7, -
4 pm. Joseph Beatty, Philosophy
7:30 pm... Dr. Prem Lata Sharma.
10 pm. Disco. 900 Room.

HANDMADE POTTERY and other crafts will be displayed and sold at the |
Third Annual Christmas Crafts Fair to be held Saturday. cal

have a:‘crafty’ christmas

speaker. 900 Room. (See story)
“Music in Hinduism.” 900 Room.

1 offer my most sincere apologies to Mr. Jonathan Keith for ‘printing his:
beautiful picture of Liza White and Sam Sommers in the last issue and failing

-Linda

Tues. Dec. 5. Pfeiffer. Away.

Wed. Dee:"6. Catawba. Home. 7 dies:

exactly whst you want because nothing seems personal enough? The answer rn a
If you were around during last year’s crafts show, you will remember the
wide variety of Davidson students and local craftamen who brought their Sports
works in to exhibit. : on wtih ties
_ This year’s show will hopefully offer an even greater assortment of crafts. | Basketball
Local artisans will exhibit pottery, weaving, woodwork, and other special _ Sat. Dee. 2. Wofford. Johnston Gym.
One unfortunate problem with the show is that there are fewer Davidson __ Davidson vs. Brown. 9 pm. Charlotte Coliseum, Teele
students exhibiting then last year. If you have a craft/hobby and would like Wed. Dec. 6.'N.C. State. Away. “4
 _ihe show will begin in the Morrison Room st 19 am. If there sre. many aves 2. Catawba Invitational ‘Tournament, Ai
= : ~_ Sat. Dec. 2. Western Carolina Conference. Away.
ee . Mon. Dec. 4. Converse. Away.

