. March 31, 1978

The Davidsonian

Opinion™

By ROGERBROWN «
Guest Columnist

Allied General Nuclear Services has
invited the Federal Government on a
skin-diving trip and offers to lend us a
pair of lead flippers as an enticement.
They seek the federalization of the
Barnwell Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing
Facility in Barnwell, South Carolina
which has suffered ten-fold cost escala-
tions and has failed to solve numerous
safety deficiencies.

The world’s first fuel reprocessing
plant opened in 1966 in West Valley,
New York. The plant operated at about
30 per cent capacity for 6 years and
never offset initial capital costs of
construction. In 1972, the plant was
shut down’ because of high radiation
levels which persisted in the effluents
released by the plant and the over-
exposure of plant workers to radiation.

The privately owned plant (built by

Opinion

CombiningChristianity with liberal arts

By SAM WEIR

Guest Columnist

This week I am particularly aware of
ething which has been

not at all
fore re n to me in past weeks--namely,
the distinct* feeling that I have no
business speaking to issues I have
studied little. In constructing the
model of a Christian liberal arts college
presented below, I was reminded often
of my ignorance in the. area of
education. Certainly I am no educator.
However, I think it necessary to
present one model of a Christian liberal
arts school if for no other reason than
to stimulate discussion within the area.
A Christian college necessarily im-
plies Christians striving to reflect the
apostles’ teaching not only in their own
personalities but also in every aspec’
of the college’s corporate personalit,
A liberal arts college requires that
students be exposed to differing world-
life views. How are we to bring these
two notions together? How will any
college be able to implement the truth
(in Jesus) while at the same time
striving to expose its students to a
wide array of truths?
There exists a tension (some would
call it a contradiction) between these
~ two conceptions that we do well here to
admit. A Christian college will consist
of individuals who have’committed
themselves to a particular perspective.
On the other hand, a liberal arts college
will expose its students to a wide
variety of perspectives including some
contrary to Christianity. The key to
this dilemma lies in our method of
exposure, for certainly the most satis-
factory way to expose students to
various world- views lies in their being

Nuclear Fuel Services) generated
600,000 gallons of high level waste
which became the responsibility of the
state of New York. Efforts continue to
saddle the Federal Government with
responsibility for disposal of this
waste, which is estimated by the
Department of Energy to cost $565
million.

General Electric built a similar
reprocessing plant at Morris, Illinois.
After investing $64 million, GE chose
not to open the plant at all due to
operational difficulties and dangers.

Allied General Nuclear Services built
the Barnwell Plant which had ‘been
scheduled to open in 1975. The original
estimates for the plant’s construction
were $70 million; actual costs have run
over $700 million. Delays stem from
uncertainty about how to dispose of
liquid plutonium nitrate and how to
control contaminated waste steam.

Reprocessing takes spent fuel from
Light Water Reactors (LWR) and
separates uranium and plutonium from
other wastes and recycles these fuels
back to reactors for use. Reprocessing
reduces demand for uranium mining
and shifts the burden of waste manage-
ment from Light Water Reactors to the
reprocessing plant.

Allied General estimated that Repro-
cessing would cost around $150/kg.
Recent estimates are more than double
that, up to $400/kg. Plagued by the

taught by professors with a personal
belief in these various opinions. And

. yet a Christian college must needs be

made up of Christians.

The model proposed here is an
attempt to do justice to both the
Christian and the liberal arts concepts.
We have seen that a liberal arts college
presupposes a wide variety of view-
-points among both its faculty members
and its student body. To achieve this
wide variety, our model of a Christian
liberal arts college need: not include a

Christian tenure rule or any distinct~
ively admissions policies.
We might insist that those who teach
Christianity be Christians themselves
just as we might require that those who
teach Buddhism be Buddhists, but
there need be no overall requirement for
all or even a “‘preponderant majority”’

of the faculty to be Christian.

One might well ask at this point how
such a college could remain Christian.
The college will be Christian because its
administration will consist of Christ-
ians seeking to obey Jesus in the way
they administer the college. Thus,
admissions will be handled in such a
way so as to actualize the principles
within Jesus’ parable of the wedding
banquet: (Matthew 22:1-14) ‘‘Go to the
street corners and invite anyone you
find.’’ (v. 9) All will be welcome to
enroll.

The budget and physical plant will
be handled with Jesus’ admonition
against storing up wealth in mind.
(Matthew 6:19) The college will relate
to the community around it as ‘‘the salt
of the earth’’ and “the light of the
world,’’ working as Jesus did to
“preach good news to the poor,’’ to
“proclaim freedom for the prisoners,”’
and ‘‘to release the oppressed”’ (Mat-
thew 5:13-16; Luke 4:17-19) Faculty
evaluation will follow the model of
“speaking the truth in love.’’ (Ephe-
sians 4:15)

So there is one model of a Christian
liberal arts college: faculty and student
body of diverse viewpoints seeking to
be liberated with a Christian admini-
stration seeking to obey Jesus through
all aspects lof the College’s operation.

Though I admit the possibility of
other models (I am not an educator), I

- enormous construction costs and such

high operating costs, the plant appears
nowhere near economic viability.

The waste problems of the plant are
critical. Reprocessing contaminates
chemical solvents, filters, and other
functional materials so that they must
be treated as high level waste also.
Instead of reducing the quantity of
waste by extraction of uranium and
plutonium, reprocessing creates about
as much waste as is extracted. The net
result is an increase in the quantity of
potentially dangerous radioactive sub-
stances.

Reprocessing plants pose the signifi-
cant danger of proliferation of nuclear
weapons capabilities. Light Water
Reactor wastes do not pose nearly so
serious a proliferation threat since a
critical mass of plutonium must be
separated out of light water wastes to
form an explosive. Reprocessing per-
forms exactly that task and therefore
represents the dangers of sabotage-and
theft or the high costs of tight security
to guard the plant against such
occurences.

Reprocessing also involves substant
ial health hazards. The first step in
reprocessing is the shipment of wastes
from dispersed reactors to the plant.
high-level wastes from dispersed reac-
tors would be shipped from as far as,
New England to Barnwell. The levels of
radiation at the plant would be much’

anal various models. (I have read
the gospels.) ‘‘By their fruits you will
recognize them.” (Matthew 7:20) What
is the fruit Jesus is referring to?

This particular passage comes at the
end of the Sermon on the Mount in a
warning to watch out for false pro-
phets. The earlier parts of the Sermon
give definite guidelines of the kind of
‘fruit’ Christian people (and Christian
colleges) will bear.

A Christian will rejoice in the face of
persecution (Mt. 5:12), act as salt and
light im the world (Mts 5:13-16), and
obey the law in its fulfillment (Mt. 5:
17-20) by seeking forgiveness from
those he has wronged (Mt. 5:23 ,24), |
having integrity and being t
(Mt. 5:33-37), and by loving’ hi
enemies (Mt. 5: 43-48)

Out of obedience to God and not to
appear ‘religious’, Christians (and
Christian institutions) will give to the
needy (Mt. 6:1-4), pray (Mt. 6:5-14),
forgive those who wrong them (Mt.
6:15), not be anxious about meeting
material needs (Mt. 6: 25-34), and not
be judgemental of others (Mt. 7: 1-6).)
A Christian college, then, will be
Christian in proportion to its being the
kind of institution from which these
characteristics grow organically.

1
utntu

Family dogs killed

o)

uclear industry poses serious threat

higher than at a LWR since the highly
radioactive wastes must be isolated
and treated. The consequences of leaks
are also much more severe due to the
concentration of wastes in treatment.

According to Nuclear Power Issues
and Choices, the highly respected Ford
Foundation-MITRE study of 1977,
“There is no compelling national
interest to be served by reprocessing.
There appears to be little, if any,
economic incentive and it is unlikely
that reprocessing and recycling could
occur without subsidy.”

The report also states, ‘‘Health
hazards and new accident risks argue
against reprocessing. But the most
severe risks from reprocessing and
recycling are the increased opportuni-
ties for the proliferation of nuclear
weapons capabilities and the terrorist
danger associated with plutonium in
the final cycle.”

The Ford Foundation study recom-
mends no U.S. effort to subsidize
completion or operation of reprocessing
plants. The embarrassing failures at
West Valley and Morris concur with
the study’s findings. Allied General
Nuclear Services are asking the Federal
Government to take the Barnwell Plant
off their hands. This demonstrates
their lack of confidence in its profit-
making potential.

Federalization would minimize their
losses and at the same time serve the
nuclear industry by allowing wastes
generated at LWR sites (such as
McGuire Plant on Lake Norman) to be
shipped to Barnwell. This would not
only unload the burden of the Barnwell
Plant investment on the government
but also the responsibility for the
problematic wastes generated accross
the country in existing reactors. This
represents just.one of many attempts
by the nuclear industry to impose cost
and risk inherent to the industry upon
the government. If we bail out Allied
General by federalizing the plant we
will not only lose money. We will allow
the nuclear industry to continue to
ignore the problems of waste storage,
we will pay for storage of wastes for
which they have no solution except
continued on-site storage, will create
serious danger due to the possibility
of transportation accidents, and we will
subsidize a plant which facilitates
sabotage and proliferation.

The Davidsonian weicomes
letters to the editor on any
subject. All letters for pubdlica-
tion must be signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters
over 300 words.

Mail letters to The Davidso-
nian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036, or bring them by the]
newspaper's office in the Col-
lege Union. Letters received by
Monday night will ordinarily be
rinted in that week's issue.

Lloyd offers reward

To the Editor:

On Saturday, 25 February, my
family’s two big dogs, a Russian
Wolfhound and a Great Pyrenees,
were brutally killed, I believe in

Davidson. The dogs, which had been

missing for five days, had been
advertised for in the Charlotte papers
and in the Mecklenburg Gazette; the
older dog’s collar bore the name of my
son and our telephone number. I
believe whoever did this is psychotic
and a danger to me and to the
community. Considering the size of
the dogs and the singularity of their
breeds,

it séems certain that some- ~

body must know who caught the
dogs, kept them, killed them, and
threw their bodies in a ditch on Beaty
Street.

I am not seeking vengeance, but
peace of my family’s. mind and
possible help for some seriously
disoriented party or parties. I will pay
one hundred dollars to anybody
giving me information that will
identify the person or persons who
killed these dogs.

Charles E. Lloyd
Professor of English
Davidson College

