. . September_22, 197
The Davidsonian a 8.

SGA election deadline set

The deadline for filing for SGA elections’is Tuesday, September.

26 at 4:00 p.m. Candidates should file in the Dean of Students
Office. -

Positions open include three freshman class senators, three Beik
Dorm senators, one senator from each other dorm, and three
off-campus senators.

Elections will be held on Tuesday, October 2. |

YMCA fund drive continues

MCA Fund Drive is continuing through September 22 with
a go boat this year of $2500. Students will be contacted for ©
contributions.

Lone proposal submitted

The deadline for proposed revisions in the College Constitution
passed Wednesday with only one recommendation from the
student body and none from the faculty.

SGA President Bruce Brown submitted the lone proposal, just

hours before the deadline. He requested a clarification of College .

Station WDAV’s relationship to the Media Board.
This recemmendation, along with several others drafted by
President Samuel Spencer, will be considered next Wednesday at a

meeting of the Constitutional Review Committee (CRC). The body ©

is composed of Brown, Trustees Price Gywn, Walter Lingle, and J.
Dickson Phillips, Vice President Pro Tempore of the Faculty John
Kelton, and Academic Vice Presidnet Price Zimmermann.

The CRC will decide which will go on to the Trustees for approval
and possible addition to the College Constitution.
Contributors: Dennis McLawhorn and Don Caldwell.

Win That Princely Roommate
You always Wanted—

wil be yours urs free if you are the
Lucky Davidson College Student
Winner of this year’s Annual Raffle
to be Held at Noon Sept. 30.

Register Now and everytime you visit

THE VILLAGE STORE

CATALOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH

Over 10,000 listings}. All subjecta.
Send NOW for this FREE catalog.
(offer expireo Deo. 31, 1978)
o: COLLEGIATE

Sendt

RESEARCH
P.Q. Box 84396, Los Angeles, CA. 80073

-need the two-station system

Spencer speaks on WDAV

(Continued from page 1) were not, Spencer at first tried I’m snot sure it’s in conflict from
. : t adistinction between the reading it.”
siained, staff." Spencer ex word “activity” and the word Asked if Davidson planned to

cooperate with WFAE, the .
University of North Carolina at
Charlotte’s radio station which
also hopes to play classica]
music at high power, to see that
their. two programs do not
/ compete with each other, Spen-
cer said, ‘‘Y haven’t heard
anything about that and |

“organization.’

Then he denied responsibility
for the sentence in Communica-
tions Director Martha Roberts’
recent statement which read
“The station from its inception
has been a College station
rather than a student activity.”

“J didn’t pick that up when I

Spencer went on to suggest
in his statement that perhaps
the Trustees should reconsider
the idea of having two campus
radio stations—one for students
and one for public relations.

“That is perhaps the only
solution that will really answer
both sides of the disagree-

ment.’’ Spencer said in an ead it,"’ Spencer admitted. He haven't had any opportunity to
interview fenowin the meeting . said he would have used the deal with that.
8 word ‘“‘organization’’ in the “I think what we need to do is

with Thompson. to get our own situation clari-

fied first before we start else.
where,” he added.

_ ‘Spencer said he thought Da-
vidson’s Trustees knew that
WFAE would be playing classi-
cal music when they called for
WDAV to become a ‘‘primarily
classical music”’ station.

But Spencer said he knew of
other areas which supported
both public and fine arts sta-
tions and ‘pointed out that
WFAE may also be broad-
casting 4 lot of educational

sentence, if he had drafted the
In 1977, WDAV'’s Board of statement himself.

Directors rejected the two-sta- Asked if he felt a conflict
_-tion option, according to the. icted between the College’s
. Communications Office. seemingly successful attempt at
But Spencer said in his taking over the radio station
statement, ‘We might well and the 1976 Davidson Consti- : -
tution’s assurrance that “‘stu-
dent managers of electronic
media staffed by students are
accorded the same rights ard:
responsibilities as editors of
student publications,” Spencer
said, ‘“‘I have to go by the
Trustee's policy statement and

that a number of campuses
have. One station, broadcasting
exclusively to the campus,
would be unqualifiedly a stu-
dent organization, managed
and programmed exclusively by
students and directed to the

Davidson student audience. if that’s in conflict the Constitu- _ material.

“The other, broadcasting to tion ought to be brought into Spencer admitted he sees
the surrounding region, would consonance.” WDAV as an “instrument by
be unqualifiedly a fine arts Spencer, who admitted he is which we make people aware of
station operated as an arm of supposed to uphold the College Davidson and hopefully interest
the Communications Depart- Constitution, said that this ‘‘is them in the College and get
ment and managed by the the first time I've had that their support. °

brought to my attention.
“I’m not the one to interpret;
that’s exactly what the consti-
tutional committee is supposed
to do. It may not be clear, but

“If you’re going to pay
professors, and build libraries,
and buy books, you've got to
find the money,’ declared
Spencer.

...PAC discusses
Tenure Committee

(Continued from page 1)

Proponents of such a commit-
tee stress the advantages of
sharing the responsibility of
tenure decisions over leaving it
entirely upon the Academic
Vice President's shoulders.

Opponents argue that faculty
should not be burdened with the

Executive Director, but offering
participation to qualified stu-
dents who want to become
members of its staff,”” Spencer
explained.

Thompson, who went to
Greenboro for an ROTC ap-
pointment after the closed
meeting and was therefore una-
vailable for comment, was re-
portedly displeased with Spen-
cer’s two station proposal,

There remains the question of.
whether WDAV is actually a
student or a College organiza-
tion.

Reminded that at one time he
has also assured WDAV that
they were a “legitimate student
activity” only to lately author-
ize a statement saying they

responsibility of making deci-
sions that would greatly affect
the career of a peer. Time
consumption is another disad-
vantage.

MacCormac made a similar
Proposal for a tenure committee -
in the spring. He recommended
that students on the committee
be given voting powyr.

The SGA, proposal calls for
student participation on the
committee, but without voting
power.

SGA President Bruce Brown
explained, ‘‘Voting students
would be impossible to realize
Politically.” .

He said a problem would arise
‘with the method of selection.

Brown emphasized, however,
‘that students do not need a vote
be helpful or effective.—

la
Pl EDMUNT

INSURANCE
- AGENCY, INC.

BARGER
CONSTRUCTION
CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS
e

P. O. BOX 30: / TELEPHONE 663-361}
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER
ee

7H LIAL LSAPS :

137 NORTH MAIN STREET
DAVIOSON

| TELEPHONE (704) 892 19054

