Philip Duncan, Editor

v

G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager

Volume LXVIII, Number Eleven

December 8, 1978

From the Editor

If elected, | promise that...’

On December 13, 1977, 400 pull together as many students
some Davidson student married as possible to work, learn, have
me to this newspaper for 12 fun.
months, — Doubtless, the quality of the

That election day I putacopy paper would have been better
of my canipaign platform into had I gathered around me a

the dark corner of a desk small, closed group of semi-pro-
drawer. fessional student journalists.
This week, I pulled the The Davidsonian is a student

year-old platform from the dra- media, and its doors must be

wer. . open to all students who want
Does Phil Duncan the editor to help. .

resemble Phil Duncan the can- My latest figures show that

didate? Let’s take a look: about 35 people work each and

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: The

every week to put out the
Davidsonian will not become an

newspaper, with 50-60 more

excellent newspaper until we lending us a hand at one time or
dramatically increase the size of  another.:

the staff. .. We must draw in Those numbers fulfill my
dynamic new people, new out- ign promise.

looks that will challenge us t2 CAMPAIGN PROMISE: Dun-
consider a broader range of can ‘is also considering affilia-
viewpoints before writing news ting The Davidsonian with the
articles and editorials. . . Associated Collegiate Press, the

At my small high school back College Press Service, or an-
home the football cqach was other of the national organiza-
always a little worried that tions that serve college newspa-
there wouldn’t be enough pla- pers. . . and will reintroduce
yers to field a competitive team, The Davidsonian into national
so each year around August 1 competition with other newspa-
the coach held open tryouts for pers.

Since the coach was afraid was to bring The Davidsonian
that players might drop out or and Davidson out of its little
get hurt as the season progres- corner of the world. We have
sed, he hardly ever cut anyone _joined the College Press Service
who tried out; in September, and now run CPS copy to

most were awarded game uni- complement our local coveage.
forms. ~ We have also linked up with
We had good football teams _ the Associated Collegiate Press,

at our schoel—we didn’t go whose Critical Evaluation Ser-
undefeated, or capture the state _ vice should tell us exactly how
championship, but we always The Davidsonian ranks in com-
won more than we lost and had parison to other college news-
a good time in the process. papers. ACP will also offer

I've staffed The Davidsonian detailed suggestions on how we
like the coach manned his team. _ can improve:

I welcomed anyone who showed The newspaper will also sub.
an interest and gave their best mit itself to critical evaluation

effort. I wasn’t so concerned by the Columbia Scholastic
that every staff member was a Press Association. .
literary genius or a layout Our association with CPS,

wizard—my main goal was to ACP, CSPA, and other such

Be SA

groups will imporve the quality
of the newspapers you read and
in time will return The Davidso-
nian to the award-winning na-
tional prominence it enjoyed in
the 1950’s and. 1960's.
CAMPAIGN PROMISE: If e-
lected, Duncan plns to invite
professional journalists to the
campus regularly to critique
The Davidsonian.

This hope stumbled and fum.
bled along and never really got
off the ground. Moreland Ho-
gan, knowledgable editor of The
Mecklenburg Gazette, spent an_
afternoon with the staff, but I
néver got around to arranging
visits by others.

Thanks to other groups on
campus, some of us talked with
Godfrey Sperling from The
Christian. Science Monitor
(courtesy of the Speakers Com-
mittee) and with several of The
Charlotte Observer's top editors
(courtesy of Buck Lawrimore.)

Not a total loss, bufdon’t give
me more than a D plus on this
one. .
CAMPAIGN PROMISE: Dun-

vering the students’ attitudes
on a number of subjects and will

‘test the feasibility of two pol-

ling procedures.

This is wonderful campaign
rhetoric. You know ‘I’m Phil
Duncan, and I’m interested in
You.’ and all that jazz.

It didn’t take too long as
editor for me to realize that we
have neither the expertise or the -
time to conduct a thorough,
accurate poll. .

I hoped through the year that
some sociology major would
drop in and volunteer to shoul-
der the burden of opinion polls,
but I hoped in vain.

No polls.

To be continued next week.
—Philip Duncan

Opinion.

Should we alter our .

any and allinterestedin playing _—-My objective in joining-the can is also interested_in_disco- ,
foo , national press organizations

class scheduling?

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
News Editor

One of the major problems .

with course registration at Dav-
idson is that there are few time
slots which students find con-
venient or desirable.

Afternoon classes often pose
conflicts with labs, sports. prac-
tices and games, and other
activities. Upperclassmen in
eating houses certainly do not
want one o'clock classes, and
who in his right mind wants to

t up for an eight o'clock class?
» Consequently, there is a con-
sistent overabundance of stu-
dents who want only 9, 11 and
12 o'clock classes.

I propose moving 8 o'clock.

classes to 8:30 and 9 o'clock
classes to 9:30, thereby short-
ening the present 10 o’clock
break to the one-half hour

ses anyway, much less at 10:00;
not only are afternoons warmer,
but having to get dressed, go to
gym class, take a shower, and
run to 11:00 class with wet hair
is neither fun nor convenient),

The afternoon, in any event,
would be freer as a result of my
proposal, as students could take
more morning classes.

The reason students would
take more morning classes igs
fairly obvious. -As I have men-
tioned before, students do not
want 8:00 classes. Not only -
would getting up half an hour
later be a psychological boost, it
would actually be physically
easier. _ :

Some might argue that it
would not make any difference
—that waking up is a matter of .
habit. But I would submit that
there is a big psychological

~period between 10:30 and-11:00:——difference between getting out

Classes meeting at 11:00 and
afterwards would continue to
meet on the present schedule.

The mid-morning break is.

nice for such necessities as the
traditional migration to the
post office, a trip to the
laundry, conference with pro-
fessors, coffee and cokes, last-
minute homework, and various
other activities. Few of these
activities require the full hour; a
half hour would serve just as
well and would prevent a waste
of time. Commitments which do

of bed at 7:30 and getting up at
8:00. Every student with whom
I have discussed this matter
agrees. ;

- My point is that students will
find an 8:30 class more desirable
than an 8:00 class; therefore ©
enrollment: in -that._first, class
will increase and consequently
lighten the burden on other
class periods.

Think about this proposal. I
-don’t want to see apathy des-
troy this idea as it has des-
troyed so many good ideas in

ire the full hour, such—as-—the past; Atteast_throw~it—
around and tell me why not. I
won’t take mere tradition as an |

argument.

physical education classes,
could be moved to the after-
noon. (Nobody wants P.E. clas-

students of Devidson

Davidson, N.C.
class postage paid et the U.S.

Bzecutive Editors :
PAMELA,CAMERRA LYMAN A. COLLINS, It
Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT HARRY GREYARD

Featares Editor
BILL PEEPLES

Pocus Editor
ANN GARNER

Copy Editor
‘DAVE ISENHOWER

ments — Masgaret Jackson; Production —
Marshall Waddell: Girentation— Ricky Watson.”

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by :

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT & CIR-
CULATION (Required by 39 U.S.C. 3685 ) 1) The Davidsonian;
2) Frequency: Once weekly during the academic year except
exams, holidays; 3A) 30 issues annually; 3B) Annual subscrip-
tion price $6.00; Location of office of publication: Davidson
College, College Union, Davidson, North Carolina 28036; 5)
Location of general business offices: same; 6) Publisher:
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036; Editor:
Philip D. Duncan, P.O. Box 4094, Davidson, North Carolina

28036; 8) Known bondholders, etc.: none; 10) Extent and nature
of circulation: A. Total no. of copies printed: 2350, average over
‘last 12 months: 2350, B. Paid circulation: 1. Sales through
dealers and ¢arriers, etc.: none, 2. Mail subscriptions: 250, D.
Free distribution by mail, samples, etc.: 2,000, average over last
12 months: 2000, F. Copies not distributed, office use, spoiled
after printing: 100, average over last 12 months: 100, Returns
from news agents: none, G. Total over last 12 months: 2350; 11)
I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and
complete. /s/G. Martin Hunter, II. _

BARRY SACHTJEN

The Bech Page Editor
LINDA HOOPES

Spevial Assiqnments Kiditor
SUZANNE NEWBERRY

Advertising Manager Production Manager Cirpulation Menager
DIANE ODOM AMANDA HALL KAREN LONG
Department assistayts: Netws—Don Caldwell, Carole Loptson: Sports—Mike Bria. John.

Willingham: Editorial Page—Sheri Gravett; Photugruphy—Phil Howerton; Special Assign-
Donya Boytston.Ralph Lasley, Richard_Neill. [/

The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the College Union. Malling address: Boz 218,
-C. 280396; telephone: 802;:2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: 96.00 per year. Second
Post Office, Devidson, N.C.

