Volume LXVIll, Number SEVEN

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

October 20, 1978

Entire st

Campus
reaction
differs

By CAROLE.LOPTSON
Assistant News Editor

The controversial Trustee de-
cision on. WDAV. sparked vari-
ous responses from;students,
faculty, and staff of the College.

Essentially, the only general
consensus drawn -was. that. the
whole affair could have been
handled better.

Physics. Professor Locke
White pointed to a lack of com-
munication® between students
and. administration as a major
problem. source, “It’s unfortu-
nate that such an enormous
breakdown ‘in communication
happened at some point in the

There was disagreement as to

(see Reactions, page 2)

Off the air till November 20

of

yee

|

EX-STATION MANAGER Carriiigton Thompson said he hopes
seeds eT ba ee a Re

(Gregg Strader)

SGA to hold DAV referendum

By HOWARD BROWNE
Staff Writer
Next Tuesday the Student

Government. Association’ plans
to hold a campus-wide referen-

dum concerning the pawn

cutive Cornmittee
WDAV.

The referendum is intended to |

express students’ feelings about
the Trustees’ actions.

"A& referendum is so seldom
used that it will carry weight,”
said Student Body President
Bruce Brown.

Brown said, ““The referendum
will express the student discon-
tent of both: the procedure and
content ‘of the Trustee deci-
sion. ad

The vatereibe une will enka:
““‘We.the students of Davidson
College find the Trustee action
of October 16th regarding

“Secondly, we'd. like to esta-
blish a 100-watt. station for

‘ students to. replace what the

Trustees have taken away. It is
too bad that this is what we
must shoot for.now, but. I think
we must make the best of a bad
situation. 331

“These. two things may not
be satisfactory to the ex-staff at
WDAV,, however, these actions
have been taken to: insure that,
in the future, students will have
some opportunity to get into

radio.”

Brown expressed. concern. o-
ver the handling of the WDAV
decision. “‘We were misled. If
the Trustees wanted to, best
serve, the Charlotte. area why

‘South Asian Studies D :

By ANN GARNER io
Staff Writer...

didn’t they start their own
station and not use what the
students had built?

“They (the Trustees) comple-
tely disregarded the Constitu-
tion. They denied the Student
Manager and staff the right
given to them by Article XII
Section 6B and C.

“They also denied the Media
Board. their rights. They di-
rected the Administration to go
back to. the Constitution ‘to
change it to fit their decision.’’

Brown said’ he felt that this
rendered the Constitution. and
the entire governing structure
worthless. He described the
Trustees decision as “very tota-
litarian.”’

the uncertainty surrounding the
future of the South Asian

Trustees affirm
—College’s control

By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor
College Radio Station WDAV is off the air until November..20
following the Monday afternoon resignation of its entire student
staff.
Angered By the trustee decision giving control of the station to
President Samuel Spencer and his administration, the students said |

‘ they felt they were wronged.

The decision, made Monday by five members of the Executive
Committee of Davidson's Board of Trustees, calls: for naceeel
changes in the station’s operations.

--Paid professionals, possibly including qualified students, will

_run the station.

_ -WDAV will play “primarily classical 1 music.’

--Students will no longer exercise any administrative control.

The trustees simultaneously gave. Spencer the authority to set up
a campus-wide radio station to be run solely by students, and he said
Tuesday that he is quite willing to do this.

The Ex-Station Manager of WDAV, Carrington Thompson,
stated yesterday, however, that he won’t try to get a new station

’ set up.

“We resigned because we were mistreated, lied to, and betrayed.
The two-station proposal is not acceptable because the trustees are
just trying to pacify us,”’ said Thompson.

In spite of his assertion, other former WDAV staff members and
the Student Government Association are said to be thinking
seriously about setting up another station. _

The question of whether any sizable number of WDAV’s 60 former
staff members will apply for jobs with the professional station has
yet to be answered.

Spencer said Tuesday that in hiring staff members “all of us would
prefer students, I think, to outsiders.”

WDAV Executive Director Don Lovell said, ‘“‘We’re considering
the students first, before we go outside the college.”

Two members of WDAV's former senior staff are said to be eyeing
positions with the college’s station, much-to Thompson’ 8
constermation. Thompson himself declared that he wan't, work for
WDAV anymore.

“T ‘m not going beck to-woek for the station at all: T refuse to work
for any college that treats its students this way,” said Thompson.

College Communicatidtis Director Martha Roberts said that she is

‘sorry students have reacted: bitterly to the trustees’ decision and

said that she hopes that, in time, many will come back to the station.

“I think a number of studerits very sincerely want to see WDAV
continue.to have a great deal of student participation and I am

heartily in agreement with them,” said Roberts.

| {ove Students, page 2)

ire >ctor named

cee “I think the lity for organizing a communi-
fact. that he is ‘an Indian: ty-wide program of South Asian

Job Thomas who holds B.A. Studies Program since the de- national adds a real dimension cultural events and for co-ordi-
_ and M.A. Seanere Iran: the

parture of its former director,
_ ‘Tonia Devon.
Some ‘people felt that the
change in personel! represented
a decregsed aaa on the
part of the. College to South
Asian’ "said Acting
South A an’ Program Chair-
man, Kaylor. “This is
just. not true.”
Thomas is said to bring many
administrative and teaching

to the program that would be nating the College's participa-
_hard to_mat with an Ameri- tion:im the activities of the
Tcan,””
Thomas will probably. teach tion," continued Zimmermann.
two courses this spring. «““Be- pees nigh eager
sides conducting the basic _ ‘Association for Asian
course in South Asian Cultdre, can Studies (SASASAAS)
he will offer advanced courses in 4 gram with’ Davidson refers to
Indian history and ait,” ‘said “the tentative Pndie abroad pro-
Academic Vice-President T. C. "gram now being finalized by
Price Zimmermann. UNC-C Professor Den. White.
“He will also have responsibi- (ece Thomas, page 2)

