The women’s field hockey team was defeated last Thursday by
Clemson 5-0 and lost. Saturday morning in Boone to Pfeiffer

é
iif

eid ine So cov vagina os a ton.

“Their enthusiasm and team unity is better than during the start
of the year,”’ she said.

With this attitude, the team continues to practice diligently for

Team work and optimism, the two most important factors of the
team, will aid the women in their future success according to Ro-
berts. —MARNI CROSBY

Men's Qross Country

Tough competition and a few bad breaks worked together to
hand Davidson cross country team two setbacks over the weekend.
Lynchburg College and’ Eastern Mennonite, two teams which
qualified for national competition m Division IIT last season,
narrowly defeated the Cats in a tri-meet over a demanding
Lynchburg course. Lynchburg edged Davidson 27-30, and a
tie-breaker had to be employed to determine the result of the
Eastern Mennonite meet.

Senior co-captain George Strobel finished first once again on the
Davidson team but was only sixth overall. Strobel was followed by
‘Bart Landess, Jeff Morrow, John Hoots, and John Rees who
rounded out the top five for the Wildcat harriers. Two negative
notes were the ankle injuries of sophomores Danny Armistead and
John Robertson.

The schedule doesn't let up as next week brings tough Southern
Conference competition with Appalachian State, Furman, and the
Citadel in an away meet Saturday. —VAN BECK

Women’s Cross Country

The Davidson women’s cross country team continueg:to improve
with each meet, indicated by their close 25-32 win at Lynchburg
Saturday, where the runners captured second, third, fifth, seventh
and eighth places. Susan Davidson led the Lady Cats with her
second place time of 21:25 on what coach Sally Bonderrant called

“a very tough course and awful conditions."

Freshman Merris Hollingworth ran one of her best races of the
year coming in third, followed by Lisa Jenkins, Mary Willis and
Sarah Todd in fifth, seventh, and eighth, respectively. This
Saturday the team faces another tough challenge from Furman
here at 10:30 a.m.

Coach Bonderrant commented, “It should be very close. We're
still a real young club gaining experience with each meet. We
performed real well this weekend and I was extremely pleased.”

The women have another home stand next week, October 13,
when they host the European Road Race. —ROB MOORE

Men's Tennis

The Davidson College men’s tennis team will see tournament
action this weekend in Statesville. Heading up the team are Harry
Griffith and Jay Gepfert seeded 4th and 5th respectively in singles
and no. 1 in doubles. Coach Jeff Frank feels either player could win
the tournament. An added attraction in this competition will be the
participation of illustrious Davidson alumni such as Gil Kayton,
Brian Cooper, and John Mitchel.

More preseason action will come October 12-14 with the Jim
Causey Invitational Tournament here at home. Then October 19th
and 20th Davidson faces UNCC and Hampden Sydney, also at
home.

Frank said that in spite of the rain the team is beginning to play
well and will benefit from the practice competition.

—DANNY ARMISTEAD

Baseball

The baseball team’s fall schedule has been marred by excessive
rain thus far. The team has won its first two. fall games, though,
beating UNCC. 9-6 and Wingate’ 8-0.:The club has gotten good
“Phe remainder of thé schedule includes Wingate .at home on
Qewber 3, Pfeiffer:at home at 3 on October 4, an alumni game at 3
on October 5, and UNCC in Charlotte on October-9.

= JOIN HASKELL

THE

VILLAGE |
STORE itt
Davidson A Classic
Handsome oeeee nook
with classic

@ 1979 Hallmark Cards. Inc.

WITH APPAREL for
GUYS & GALS

Records, Tapes & etc.
NOW ON MAIN STREET

ATOTALLY UNIQUE... DAVIDSON.
SHOPPING EXPERIENCE : PRESENTS
master charge layaway. visa A 4 ALAIN OFFER

Pere : 10% off
3 | 1 | all apparel with this coupon :
: offer good thru Oct. 4, 5, 6 only :

SOROOOHHSOSOSESOOOH OOOO OSHOOOSESOEOODOOEEOOEES

new hours phone
10:00 - 6:00
mon - sat 892-4316

Fine Arts Building

Another outstanding job by .

BARGER

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925"
| | 0a. A. Wicker
384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30 we a ae
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115 ai ee

w
