Antics of anne

Brad Kerr

hee I st

This article is the culmination of three
months of effort to stop the unacceptable
behavior of some football players and
others that is too prevalent on this
campus.

I live on first Belk and am thus more
aware of the magnitude of this situation
than those fortunate students who live
on more civilized halls. So I'd like to give
you a first-hand feel for the problem
Davidson has to face.

Code of Responsibility violations are
rampant, blatant, and go unreported.
Right now, the Code of Responsibility is
no more than a collection of nice words,
but it should and could be as vital as the
Honor Code in our life at Davidson.

Its basic aim is to prevent ‘‘infringe-
ments on the freedoms and well-being of
others’’--it strives for a moral lifestyle as
well as academic honor. I don’t think
that you could justify the assumption of
academic honor without honor also being
emphasized in our general lifestyle.

The key is that the responsibility: has
been placed upon the students to make it
work; the administration can only act
after a student has filed a complaint or
charge.

However, mostly due to lack of
awareness of this responsibility, the
Code goes unadministered. After the
last football game, we locked our doors
as some uncontrollably drunk football
players tore up our campus.

Nightly, first Belk is an entertainment ~

center. Activities have varied, including
burning bags of garbage and newspapers
in the halls, breaking windows, and
sabotaging all the johns, backing them
up, dumping garbage-over them and
writing profound notes with feces on the
walls.

Other antics include pouring beer
under hallmates’ doors (i.e. mine), to our
delight as we slosh across our rug in the
morning, and smashing the lounge
furniture into pieces and using them,as
clubs to bang on their hallmates’ doors
as well as other uses that I wasn’t
curious enough to go outside to find out
about. _

The latest incident was one in which a
ridiculously drunk football player
from another hall disturbed many with
his three hours of carrying-ons, inclu-

Rail Song

Steve Turner

The rails are only ten feet long tonight.
Sometimes thirty-two depending on the
moon.

It don’t make a lot of difference to me.
There no trains no more on these tracks.
I'm planted on these two pieces of steel
for the pleasure.

Maybe wishing these metal bars would
play me tune

where I could be here to feel the chords
get

louder and louder till I was part of the
song.

Then I'd be a fading hum holding the
end

of a long slight string sci smoke,

The rails are only ten feet long tonight.

They ain't never much less than nine
though.
The wooden tracks smell moist to me.

Ready for something that won "t never
happen.

Steve Turner is @ senior Enlak
‘major. This poem wor second place in
the Charlotte Writers’ Contest.

ding mooning the hall ‘through the
window, breaking that window, defeca-
ting on the steps, running around and
yelling with his pants down, and too
much more.

Due to the especially intense abuse
given him, one hall member had to
move.

I also know of abuses that freshmen
girls have received. Take a recent
incident where a girl’s window was
being bombed by snowballs. She pleaded
to have it stopped since the window was
about to break. But this only incited
more diligent attempts, one of which
was successful in shattering the window,
throwing glass around the room and
cutting her temple.

They didn’t stop even after continued
pleading from the paramedic who came
to take care of her. By. talking to her I
realized that she did not even think of
reporting this incident, accepting it as
an occurrence that had to be tolerated on
a college campus. This may be tolerated
on other campuses, bu!, should not be on
ours--no one should have to tolerate this.

The amazing part of these incidents is
that they can be attributed to a known
group of 10-15 students. This handful
should not be allowed to disrupt the
functioning of Davidson; degrading the
Code of Responsibility, the campus itself
(an estimated $10,000 damage was done
last year) and I also fear that even the
Honor Code is affected. I believe these
students are also a big concern of the
faculty and administration when eyatia:
ting our Honor System.  (

Some plainly don’t belong here (even
if they can play football). Many obvious-
ly don’t live up to the academic
standards; they have a distorted view of
what constitutes reasonable behavior,
and more basically, they are not the
quality of students that can be expected
to live up to the Honor Code and the
Code of Responsibility which are so
precious to Davidson’s existence. We
must not allow these few abnormalities
to disrupt our fragile system.

It is the students who must act,
especially against the more blatant
abuses of students and destruction of the
campus. Just my efforts and those of a
number of others have been able to cure
much ofthe problem, but I have lost
faith that we can solve this problem
alone for it extends further than first
Belk and runs deeper into the. basic
well-being of the Honor Code and the
Code of: Responsibility .

So I urge everyone to actively keep an
eye out for these blatant violators and
report any information that you current- -
ly know, for it is lack of information and
evidence that is keeping our hands tied.

The student body has a tremendous
amount of power that we must apply to
this situation. I’m disgusted enough
that I have openly dedicated myself to
solving this problem, and hopefully this
article will incite the same feelings in the
rest of the student body.

The ‘hell-raisers,’’ as they have
termed themselves, have been warned
many times and I hope they take their
actions a bit more seriously in the future.

I'd like to conclude with a quote from
a statement made to me that was meant
to represent the “‘hell-raisers” on first
Belk: *‘...we couldn’t care less what you

think. We. are going to continue to .

behave in the manner we please because
we know how much it irritates you. We
know when we got a good thing going.”

You can see-why I have lost faith.
Please work to uphold Davidson as a
decent place to live and study.

Slogging through Mud

Bill. Peeples

When in doubt, write about the
weather.

For a fellow from South Georgia, the
snow and ice at Davidson-is a marvel. It
is also an anomaly to which I am not
accustomed, a freak of nature that
refuses to melt.

Back home, we have rain instead of
snow. Time was that I hated all the rain
at home, but as I walk around freezing at
Davidson and observe New Jersey
friends in shirt sleeves, I long for the
monsoon season of times past.

All the creeks and rivers where I live
are tributaries of the mighty Sewannee
River. All of South Georgia and North
Florida is flat as a pancake, and when it
floods, the only place for all that water to
go is the Suwannee.

The Suwannee gets so full after a few
days of hard rain that the whole drainage
system gets clogged up. For two weeks
or longer, home is just one big mud
puddle.

The last time I was home for one of
these floods, my friends and I had a
blast. One adventure involved a trip to
the family farm to check out the extent
of the rain. We couldn’t drive anywhere.
The water averaged about five feet deep
in the roadbeds. . -

We had taken a canoe along with us,
and we were able to see most of the farm
by paddling above the inundated roads.

I had always wondered what happened
to fire ant beds during these rains, and I
found out. As we paddled along, we
entire ant bed community would be on
one of these leaves, with the small
insects piled in many yes to remain
above the water,

Another freak of nature surrounds
the development of a lime sink. When
the water from a flood seeps into the
porous limestone underlying the region,

the-rock dissolves and leaves an under-
" ground cavern not far from the surface.

The waterlogged soil above eventually

collapses, heaving ‘s:geping Tle inthe

Brad Kerr, a sophomore, is a member of earth.

the Hearing Committee.

Cows at pasture have tied known to

disappear without a trace. Superstitious
country folk won’t go near one of the
lime sinks, saying that they have no
bottom. This claim is not unfounded, as
the depth of lime sinks is always
changing.

I went fishing in a lime sink one day, -
paddled to the middle and dropped a
weighted line to the bottom. It came to
rest about thirty feet down. A weekjlater
I went. back to the same spot and never

* did hit bottom, although.I sent about a

hundred feet of line overboard.

The big floods can also be a source of
amusement. After the water drains off,
farmers’ fields are veritable quicksand.
If they live on a hard road, many of them
.pick up some quick cash by having a
‘“‘bog-in.”

Bog-ins are a. Sunday afternoon
activity that give four wheel drive
owners a chance to See whose vehicle is
superior in quicksand. For an entry fee
of five dollars, a jeep driver can spend
the whole afternoon getting stuck.

The farmer is always on hand to pull
people out with his tractor, for an
additional fee. As the tractor struggles
to free a mired ‘vehicle, the under-car-
riage of the four wheeler is torn to pieces,
more often than not. The owner leaves
witha ruined vehicle, — if

he performed well.

The climax of a.bag-in eccirn when the
vehicles line up along a starting line and

- roar off across a hundred yard stretch.

The first one to cross wing a small purse.
No vehicle ever makes it all the way.

The object is to get as far as possible in
