| 6—The Davidsonian—March 28, i979
ara . 3

SERS) TTY .

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Tweediedum, Tweedledee?

Andy Miller and John Jackson, the two candidates for
the presidency of Davidson’s Student Government
Association, met with the executive and senior editors of
The Davidsonian for more than an hour and a half on
Tuesday night. They were grilled on a number of specific
issues, given a chance to criticize the way the SGA is
currently being« run, — asked to state their qualifications
for office.

Earlier The Daseiaenian had decided to break with
tradition. For the first time in as long as anyone on the
staff could remember, we had decided to endorse a
candidate for student Office.

But how could we be sure we were being fair in making
our judgement? Since The Davidsonian is the only
student newspaper on campus, it seemed grossly unfair
to allow one or two editors to make a snap judgement
based on their own personal biases.

What we decided was to set up an editorial board to
hear the candidates at length, which would then carefully
deliberate before making an endorsement. We hoped an
exhaustive joint interview might lead to a clear-cut
decision based on issues, not on personalities.

Both candidates were told why they were being asked
to meet with us. Both said they favored the idea.

Almost as soon as the interview began distinctions
between the two. juniors began to blur. Both said that the
current SGA Senate is being competently run, but added
that they felt it has somehow lost a sense of direction.
Both said the Senate should be more innovative; the SGA
President more enthusiastic about his work.

Both said they want to see Athletic Director Thomas
Cartmill fired; both said they think Davidson. fraternitites
should be given more control over who is allowed to join
their ranks.

Both tacitly admitted the SGA has-no real power to
solve Davidson’s mammoth registration problem. Yet,
they added, the Senate must continue to work as closely
as possible with ‘Registrar Richard Burts in order to
accomplish whatever it can.

They agreed, they agreed, then they agreed again. To
be blunt about the outcome of the interview, both
candidates were found to agree with each other on every
issue raised. Not only did they agree in general terms, but

-they even agreed on specifics. As one senior editor
commented after Jackson and Miller had left the room,
“Neither of them convinced me. | was disapointed. | feel
almost cheated.”

Even in terms of qualifications, both candidates were
found to be disturbingly similar. Both are hall counselors,
both are fraternity men, and both are SGA insiders.
Jackson stressed that he is a two year veteran of the SGA
Senate and current vice-president. Miller, who is now a
senator, stressed that he has wider experience because of
his involvement in a number of campus organizations.

Before voting on who we should endorse, The
Davidsonian discussed what we had heard from the
candidates for a long time—for more than an hour. This.
was the outcome: the editor and—senior sports editor
voted to endorse Jackson; the executive editor and senior
opinion editor voted to endorse Miller; and the senior
news and features editors chose to abstain.

Clearly, it’s going to ‘be the campus’ choice. We urge all
students to carefully consider both candidates. Please
vote on Tuesday.

_ AResponsive Faculty

anne wor ee Smo. crs
proposal March 21 meeting. it says a great

‘e

HURTIN

aarti ill

WORDS OUT you
MAN ...

re |

— = eS Ltd. si

“The aes Forum

To the Editar:

Four yeas ago the Trustees
of Davidse h College adopted
the policyof ‘seeking national
prominence in basketball. At
the same time, the Faculty of
Davidson Céllege overwhelm-
ingly voted to deemphasize the
intercollegiate athletic prog-
ram, arguing that it is too ex-
pensive to: maintain at its pres-
ent level and that it is not har-
monious with the ‘educational
aims of the institution. Recent
developments indicate the Fac-
ulty was correct.

1. The conduct of certain
football players has created an
atmosphere, on campus which
cannot be tolerated.

2. An article in the March 5th
issue of Sports Hlustrated con-
cerning our basketball recruit-:
ing practices is not the type of
publicity the College can afford.
Even though there may be a few
errors in the, article, it is
accurate enough to be embar-
rassing.

3. In our judgment, the
failure of so many students to
receive three courses at Spring
registration is directly related
to College priorities in budget-
ing. Students came up short 500
places. Our. sources indicate
that the total athletic-physical
education budget runs about
$1.3 million; yearly losses are
about $750,000. (If these tig-
ures are inaccurate, we invite
the Trustees andAdministration
to correct them.) It would cost
the $150,000 to hire ten

‘faculty members, providing a

potential 600 places for stu-
dents. We believe students are
paying too high a price for the

5. As educational costs in- -
crease, it is imperative that

Rik —_

additional funds be available for
student scholarships based on
need; Davidson is in danger of
becoming a college only for the
wealthy.

6. The Faculty is. distressed
over its present economic sta-
tus. Its salary in constant
dollars has declined 15 percent
since 1966. Yet, the Faculty has
been told that the budget is too
tight for substantial Faculty

‘raises. We believe it is a matter

of priorities. We know of no
other institution of higher edu-
cation in- the United States
which ‘spends as high a percen-
tage of its budget upon the
athletic program.

The issue is critical. If David-
son college wishes to become a

' first-rate éducational institu-

tion, it must act now.Sincerely,
Max E. Polley

R. David Kaylor

Mark I. Davies

John J. Young

Eumenean Resolutions

To the Editor:

These resolutions were unani-
mously adopted by a fullquorum
of the membership of the Eu-
menean society in open meeting
assembled, Eumenean Hall, 14
March 1979:

1. The students and faculty of
Davidsoncollege lack a place
where truly free thought is not
only accepted but encouraged.
To rectify this deficiency, we
open our membership in reaffir-
mation of our readiness to

’ sponsor liberal debate and serve

as a guarantor of divergent

‘ philosophy.

2. We invite all free-thinking
members of the student body
and faculty to join us in our
pursuit of the truth, without
fear of bias due to their lifestyle.
We refuse to practice the preju-

* . We are in favor of securing

a greater minority enrollment.
We deplore the unwritten policy
of the College to deny equal
access to education to individu-
als on the basis of their heri-
tage. Only by acting can we
achieve the diversity which the
Davidson community seems to
desire.

5. The question of the exis-
tence of the Philanthropic Soc-
iety is a matter for continued
debate.

Sincerely,
The members of the
Eumenean Society

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. All
letters must be signed. Letters
may be edited for space (over

* 200 words) and clarity.

Editor

Gl Peeples, Executive Eailor
Martin Hunter. Business Manager
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor

.
Dennis McLawhom. Senior News Editor
Merideth Durden, Senior Features Ector
Barry Sachyen, Senior Sports Editor
George Murdaugh. Seniot Opinion Editor

Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Jim Garrett, News Ector
Arn Gamer, Features Editor
Bert Mobley. Sports Eaitor
Sheri Gravett, Opinion Editor

Margaret Jackson, News Graphics Editor
Margaret Hunter. Features Graphics Editor
Otene Odom, Sports Graphics Editor
. Ann Sheatter, Opinion Graphic? Editor

Lary Morton, Advertising Manager
Karzn Long. Circulation Manager
Ann Garner, Research Director

