The women’s cross country team, paced once again by Susan
Davidson, placed third in a 10-team field in a 25 mile
relay this past Saturday in Greenville, S.C. Each school or club
entered five runners in the five by five mile relay; the team with the
lowest total time was the meet winner.

Davidson was represented by an A and B squad. The A team. led
by a fine 32:01 effort by Susan Davidson placed third in the overall
meet behind the U.S.C. Running Club and the Greenville Track
Club. Carie Nunn also,ran well for the Cats. No team results were
available for the B-team.

Although the season is basically completed for the team, Susan
Davidson will compete in the regional meet to be held in Murray,
Kentucky, Saturday. *—VAN BECK

Field Hockey

The Lady Wildcats of the field hockey team, led by Carol
Heppner and Cathy Inabnet, each of whom scored two goals,
demolished Converse last Thursday 5-0. Belle Erdman added the
fifth goal for the Cats. ae

The team followed suit Saturday with a hut-out of ECU.
Inabnet scored two goals, leaving one each for Lisa Johnson and
‘Erdman.

With these two closing wins, the Cats achieved a 7-6 season
record us the team heads to the state tournament this week.
Davidson is seeded fifth out of six teams, but spirit and optimism
remains high. Despite an unimpressive regular season, the
Wildcats feel they have played well and are by no means out of the
picture for the state title.

The Deep South tournament will be held this coming weekend,
but a win at state will make the team ineligibleor this competition.

~ANNE HOCKETT

Women’s Soccer

Davidson's first women’s intercollegiate soccer game in history
was a 4-1 trouncing of Pfeiffer last| weekend. Sandy Fawcett
opened the pre-season scoring action, followed quickly by Joanna
Flemming, making the score 2-0.

Pfeiffer then scored its only goal just before halftime, but in
the second half, Faweett found the Pfeiffer net two mere times to
secure the win. ‘The victory was the result of good team play and
exceptional effort from Pam Hawkins and Marsha Coates.

The Davidson women’s soccer team is the product of much
interest expressed by women in soccer and the efforts of their
coach, Doug Schuessler. He said 35 women came to the
organizational meeting wishing to participate in the spring soccer
season, which will consist of six to eight intercollegiate games.

' —DANNY ARMISTEAD

Club Football

Davidson's club football team, hindered by a lack of depth, lost
to Lenoir-Rhyne Sunday afternoon 32-0. Only 15 players managed
to make the trip, meaning that most players to play both offense
and defense. The lask of players has been a problem all season.

Club president: Alex Driscoll praised the quality of individual

_play, however, including Joby Merten’s job at quarterback.
Merten earlier led the squad to a 22-6 route of Western Carolina on
October 14, the team’s lone win in a 1-4 season thus ‘far.

After taking next Sunday off, the team closes the 1979 season

with a home clash against Appalachian State on Nov. 11. State,
_ which fielded a fine team last year, may : lack that powerhouse
quality in 1979, Driscoll notes.

The 2:00 game, promising exciting viewihg’ for all interested
fans, will be played on the rear practice field near the c¥Y6ss-country
COUTSE Posts. —BtECK BRADBERKY

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1926"

984 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 26116 |

: cies House
= Gallery
iy justamrived!
. eee O Keette s

305m. “ain STE.
a (704) 892.

“CUSTOM FRAMING

SUPPLIES: —
Art —Office—-School

What Do You Want
From College?

Job Opportunity?
Add It To Your Schedule.
College is a time of high The reason is basic.
promise and even greater ROTC classes are unique.
expectations. They offer instruction anda

You eagerly look forward
to the day when you will have
completed your education
and are ready to get on with
a career in your particular
field.

However, many will not be
ready.

In these highly competi-
tive times, young people
quite often find that a college
education is simply not
enough. An important ingre-
dient is missing.

Employers know what it is.

They look for people trained
in the human relationships of
management and in the exer-
cise of responsibility.
Anothername for this is lead-
ership. Today, many com-
panies are finding this pre-

_. ferred quality among men

and women who are Army
ROTC graduates. :

practical, working know-
ledge of leadership. What
you learn in Army ROTC
training is directly applicable
to a civilian career: the prin-
ciples of personnel manage-
ment, a ready acceptance of
responsibility, the desire to
achieve, and personal confi-

dence.

There is a difference in the
college graduate who has
had the benefit of Army
ROTC. That difference makes
you worth more to prospec-
tive employers.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT
IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:

CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept
Davidson College
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170
