i

Saree Cin

} Brlcad
Se % 3

~~ those wiggling eyebrows beats the heart of a man who once

referred to himself as “God's Gift to Davidson.” Although he
has only taught here four years, John (Dr. Kello to his close

_ friends) has captured the imagination of psych students much

the same way Viet Nam did that of Cambodia.
Dr. Kello has more advisees than any other professor in the
psychology department. Many a student has found his door

_ wide open, and heard such consolation as “Have you ever

thought of selling insurance?” or “I'd like to recommend you
for graduate school but it might jeopardize my standing with
the APA Ethical Conduct Committee.”

Kelton

HOBBIES: none |
MEMORABLE QUOTE: “You mean this isn’t Personality 102?
Why didn’t you tell me that a week ago?”

SCOTCH: Tape

Not just another John, Dr. Kelton is often referred to as the
Doug Houchens of psychology. Reactions to his classes
rangé from “dry” to “Oh, so that’s who that guy was; | was
wondering what he was doing in our class.”

John was chairman of the psych department until 1977 when
Drs. Kello and Brockway began rerouting his mail and phone
calls to the Davidson laundry. He now spends his declining
years in his little office on second Chambers, a broken man
surrounded by his books, his memories and his shrunken head
collection.

One day one of Dr. Kelton's advisees walked into his office
to have him sign acourse registration form.

Student: Here, sign this.

Dr. K.: What, is this a registration form?

Student: No, it’s a banana. —

Dr. K.: Hold on a minute, you want me to sign a banana?

Student: What?

Dr. K.: What?

Student: Look, just sign the form!

Dr. K.: Wait, | still don’t get it. What banana?

Student: What?

Dr. K.: What?

Ostwalt

Frequently mistaken for Nikita Kruschev
Palmer

Transplanting hair in the comfort of this own home using a
technique he heard about on T:V.

Webster

Hasn’t ever heard of Valium.

Burts -

Already planning for next spring’s computer failure.
Religion

Clark

Who drives a 28-foot, maroon, no-knox-powered Lincoln
home every afternoon to his hideaway villa in the lush
countryside a few miles from Davidson? T-Bird—D.C.’s own
Struggling professor of religion. ae

Religion and religious art. You know, art is probably the
second most important thing in Tommy’s life— next to his
cars. Yessir, Tommy’s an artsy-fartsy guy. When he’s not
doing busts, he’s usually looking at them. Whether it's
Michelangelo’s Lorenzo Medici or the finer aspects of an
Eternal Spring, T-Bird has always got art on his mind. ?

Dr. Rhodes spent his childhood building split-rail fences in

itlindis. He regularly rends his garments. He gave up sex for
ne eG fe wis

Kaylor

He couldn't get the hang of Christianity, so he opted for
far-eastern cults and became a middle-aged moonie. He gave

up Lent for sex.

Polley

i ite, they are always
While faculty nicknames are often trite, :

appropriate. Davidson students know Max Polley by several
cordial terms. “Max the Axe” and “New Improved Yahweh” are

opular. “Max the Ass” is more fitting.
i While he outwardly opposes basketball, football, and every

other sport at Davidson, inwardly he suffers from an inferiority ©

complex: he is not the prophet he longs to be.
Aetuaily. his greatest amtition is not a matter of prophet,

but profit, and he bitches constantly in class about faculty

ay. ie
d While in “Faith of Israel” he rambles incongruently about

the moving faith of Moses, Samuel, and Isaiah, he cannot keep

the faith in Davidson’s budget priorities.
For this. reason, next fall he will transfer from the

Department of Religion to Economics. He plans to instruct a
course entitled “Finance and Conscience for Private Col-

leges.” c

Root

The basic problem with Dr. Root is that he looks like Mark
Duckett.

'. McKelway

Dr. Alexander McKelway is often referred to as Sandy Barth.
His concern with faculty salaries is exemplified by his desire
to own a second Mercedes-Benz. If he gets it, he'll have

another to illegally park in front of Derby house.

Maloney

Knew Judas Iscariot was a commie all along.

Sociology

Ruth, Koller, Myers

Since we all know that Sociology is a wimp major and not
worthy of the true liberal arts student, we’ve decided not to
give these guys any ratings. All that can be said for them is
that they're great for your GPA!.

‘Spanish
Kemp

Sandy of the Golden Sandals has led bold Davidson
Students across shining oceans, through throngs of shrieking
Spaniards, and into houses with wild dark charms.

Rogerson

His courses are sleeping proof that “Spanish is the easiest
foreign lanttiage.” eee
we

Hlibtschuk

What can one Say about a 31-year-old boy who tried? This
cross-cultural Ukranian has decided to give up teaching after

his three years at Davidson What
j uson. can one s.
in seven languages.) ay? (He can say it

