Press” ‘Association (CSPA)

ranked The Davidsonian in the

“First Place’ category and
awarded the newspaper a ‘‘med-
alist certificate”- the highest
distinction - in the 55th annual
CSPA Newspaper Contest at
Columbia University in New
York City.

’ And the Associated Colle-
giate Press (ACP) granted The
Davidsonian the rating of
‘First Class- very good to
excellent’”’ in the ACP Critical
Service. ACP is based at. the
University of Minnesota, Minne

CSPA evaluated content/ ©

coverage, writing/editing, and
design/display in the David-
_ sonians published during 1978,
and gave the newspaper 953
points out of a possible 1000.

“The staff has done some
exciting design work and exper-
imented with what's at hand to
create a personality for the pub-
lication, making it unique a-
_ mong college weeklies,’’ a

Bs 7 ot Scholastic.

CSPA judge wrote.

“We compliment the staff on
their job well-done and encour-
age them to continue to work as
a team to experiment, to report,
to‘inform and to entertain its.
readership. The publication is
delight to read and view,’’ the
judge added.

The ACP evaluated the news-
papers published from Septem-
ber to December of 1978 and
‘gave 3980 points out of a possi-
bie 4500. ACP also awarded the
fe ene ““Mark of Distinc-

jaa the coverage and
‘content category.

“The Davidsonian publishes
a lot of pertinent and interest-
ing information... you cover a
lot of news areas- good work,”
noted the ACP judge.

' Both organizations offered
suggestions for improvement:

CSPA said the quality of pho-.

tography should be upgraded
and asked the sports staff ‘‘to
stress the events yet to happen
over the events long past.’’
ACP said the newspaper needs
more ‘‘staff-prepared, crisp,
punchy edits and meaningful,
vital, opinion columns.”’

1978 Davidsonian editor Phil

Massachusetts governor
fears pie in the eye

MADISON, WI (CPS)—Two
weeks ago Massachusetts Gov-
ernor Edward King cancelled a
visit to the University of Mass-
achusetts-Amherst out of fear
of béing. pied by students there.
Wisconsin Governor Lee Drey-
fus, though, was not so lucky.
He was pied by a reporter at the
University of Wisconsin April
9.

Dreyfus knew the pie was

junction with the Wisconsin
Student Association’s annual
“Event.”’ Reporter Stuart Lev-
itan paid $70 for the honor of
throwing a pie into the gover-
nor’s face.

Dreyfus, however, was not
prepared for the post-pie anti-
nuclear power demonstration by
students. Demonstrators threw
mud and eggs at the governor,
who. had to be accompanied by

-receives two awards

Duncan said “The high rank-
ings are a credit to those who
sacrificed study and sleep to put
the newspaper together each

week.I hope these evaluations ©

will encourage the staff to keep
improving the quality of The
Davidsonian.””

Bob Hope
Says:

“Red Cross
can teach you
And first aid
can bea
life saver.”

ARES Serene ut the Newsnapes 4 The arteetnena Cours EMT

The Davidsonian is pu-
blished weekly except during
the summer months, holi-
days, and the first and tenth
week of every term, by the
students of Davidson Col-
lege, on the Thursday pre-
ceeding the issue date.

The newspaper’s office is
on the third floor of the
College Union. Mailing ad-
dress: Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036; telephone
892-2000, Ext. 148. Sub-
scription rate: $6.00 per
year. Second class postage
paid at Davidson, N.C.

Just minutes north of Davidson,

we serve awide variety of foods:
- unique and tasty sandwiches,
savory steaks,
salads,

and much more.

Everything is prepared quickly

coming. It was staged in con- __ security officials back to his car.
and served fresh.
SGA Announcement
Every Spring Term the SGA Senate makes its appointments to the administration and
faculty councils and committees. The selections will take place in three groups. The deadline Try

for the final‘ group is Tuesday, May 1 at 5:00 P.M. This group consists of five advisory
councils: Counselling and Guidance; Finance, Personnel and Development; Intercollegiate
Athletics; Library; and Bookstore. ;

If you are interested in serving on one of these committees, .please contact Jeff Stidham
(-6957), John Jackson (-6322), or Richard Terry (-6469) or sign up on the door of the SGA
office. You will be interviewed by a screening committee and nominees will be chosen and
presented to the Senate.

. Committee on Counselling and Guidance: This committee serves to advise and assist the
Dean of Students and the Director of Student Counselling in regard to programs of advising
freshmen, of academic counselling, clinical counselling, and vocational counselling. Where
appropriate, it will make recommendations to the Vice-President of Academic Affairs
concerning the college’s responsibilities in these areas. Two students will be appointed.

Finance, Personnel and Development: The council advises the President and his délegated
administrative officers in this area of responsibility. The council meets at least three times a
year with the President or his delegates to receive reports and offer advice. (For more
information, navy Article IV, Sec. 2, ne College Constitution). Three scuiants will be
appointed.

iobiaruitleginzs Athletics: Phe council udviens the President on matters coming unde its -
jurisdiction. It meets at least three times each academic year in the Fall, Winter, and Spring
at times set by the President. or upon written request of three council members to the
President. The council meets with the President or his delegated proxy to receive reports, and

_ to advise with respect to on-going operations, programs, problems and plans under

_ consideration in this area. (Consult Article VII, Sec. 2, Davidson College Constitution for
« further information). Three students will be appointed.

Library: The Committee on the Library adivce to the President on policies of

_-f.. operations and developemtn of the Library and makes recommendations for improvement. In

| _ accordance with the College Constitution the Committee allots funds to departments and

ee ee One student is

. Bookste ‘Manttiece of thie coniselittes saat width tie Diswobis’ of the Booketore once a year pa
ss GM Mb tgeadisn’ ond talkie of tea tins. One student to be appointed. phone: 892-8686
. Br enn ee ye ee ae pe = EB ed

a different and delicious approach

to eating today.

The Buttery
and Beanery

On Highway 115, north of Daviiicn,
near Mt. Mourne.

