Beenie 21, 1979—The Da

Definitions
Bill Peeples

There are times when the O.E.D. does
not provide the definitions for words and
phrases most frequently used by David-
son students, and perhaps unfamiliar to
the incoming freshman. On the assump-
tion that orientation did not tell you all
you need to know, then the brief
dictionary which follows will let you, the
freshman, in‘on a few secrets.

The Davidson A: A pigment of your ,

infatuation, sort of like climbing Everest
clad in a swimsuit using only one hand.

The Plaza: The eighteenth green of
academia,The Plaza is the expanse of
brick paving that extends from the E.H.
Little Library to Chambers.

Old Davidson: This refers to a bygone
era at DC when men were men and
women were down the road.

The Special: A sandwich, what Mary
and Murray serve is indeed special after
weeks and weeks of ARA, that has a
growing cult following.

The Road: In the near future, this
includes Salem, Converse, Hollins, Mary
Baldwin, Queens, etc. Better than a
B.C. Powder—no sex at Davidson.

The Road: (female version) Appy,
W&L, VMI, Chapel: Hill, J.C.Smith,
etc.—the remedies for periodic frustra-
tion.

The Road Trip: Coming sooner than
you think, you could win a free vacation
to Anchorage, Alaska, via UPS.

Gator: Fraternity pastime in which
revelers work variations on the flesh pile
theme.

Preppy: Anyone, male or female, who
has a marginal and elastistic demand to
gator.

Punt: You should not have waited till
the last minute. It’s fourth and 2,000
pages to go. You could “‘suck wind” and
face ‘‘life in the big city’ and book all
night. But then again, you could hijack a
Saturn V and fly to Mars. So Punt.

Geek: Not to be confused with Greek,
save a few, ne has the innate, enduring
. suaveness of Don Rickles, the charm of
Mean Joe Green, and the self-confident
resourcefulness of Charlie Charlie Brown.

“Davidson’s Barber arber Shop: yp: On Main
Street, where you go if you are in ROTC
and leaving Davidson for a leisurely
summer at Ranger School.

The 900 Room: A place you frequent
frequently only if you do not plan to
graduate on time.

The P.O.: Davidson’s daily Mecca at

10:00 A.M., second ‘only to the 900
Room at 10:00P.M._

~~ Space Cadet: Akin to Drop-Add and
the Geek. Those who did not take
advantage of JYA and resemble Battle-
star Galactica by going “Beep, beep,
beep. Who am I, where am I, what am
1?” Is it soup, yet?

Bonehead and the Brick Brothers: BB
& B, a weekly Davidsonian farce that is
.a bizarre masterpiece of chauvinism,
subjectivity, absurdity, Morkism, Mc-
carthyism, absolutism, fascism, and
alchemy. It has nothing to do with
IMAC sports, except women’s intramu-
rals.

Freshmints: BB & B’s favorite, ulti-
mate put-down. Also a reference to
freshmen.

Davidson Update: Illegitimate first
cousin of the Davidsonian. .

‘” Butch: Davidson’s token campus ca-
nine, a product of indeterminate origin.

Cashion’s National Bank: Within the
facade of grocery store and restaurant,
this financial institution in Cornelius will
handle more of your money than the
Piedmont Bank.

The Big Eight: A nightmare that
eccurs at, 8:00 A.M. Monday through

Friday if you were lucky and signed up~
. for it. The Big Eight should sriceteial

the law.

/ hi: / yy Ye j yt

Hie,

(Gia Partain}

NC vs HEW

..Frank Santore

The state of North Carolina has been
hitched to the whipping post recently by
altruistic architects who have a rather
distorted view of society. Two examples
stand out in this regard.

First, the five-figure bureaucrats who

run the Department of Health, Educa-:

tion, and Welfare have stated that North
Carolina’s University system does not
provide equal opportunities for all people
simply because five of the state’s
institutions of higher learning have a
black populations in excess of eighty-
eight percent, while the rest have: black
populations under twelve percent, accor-

ding to the September 9th Churlottv

Observer,
While there are some discrepancies —
in percentage of faculty members with

advanced degrees, for example—be-

tween so-called ‘‘black’’ and ‘‘white’’
institutions, these can be corrected by
such things as salary incentives to lure
more experienced academicians to the
institutions in question.

“ But, no: this is too simple for your
“friends” at the federal government.

Instead, for want of something to do
(other than make paper airplanes,
perhaps) HEW has attempted to
phase out “‘black institutions by dismis-
sing them as ugly reminders of segrega-
tion. This is illogical for two reasons.

First, no student, regardless of race,
creed, color, sex, or national origin, is
denied access to any institution of higher
learning in this state under the auspices
of various pieces of civil rights legisla-
tion presently on the books. Thus, North
Carolina’s institutions of higher learning
are required by law to be fully integrat-
ed.

Secondly,
important role within the black commu-
nity. In the sordid age of apartheid,
black colleges stood as a lighthouse in
the midst of a hurricane.

From black colleges came the women
and men who were to shape the
integration movement in our country.
Today, black colleges stand as a symbol
of black pride, a reminder of the difficult
times of the past, and as instruments to
challenge ALL people to the tremendous
tasks which lie ahead.

The latter is most important, for the
“slow fade to white’ of many black
institutions (under guidelines establish-
ed under HEW) would mean that
thousands of students who could not
otherwise go to college would be de-
prived of that chance, along with special
attention in the classroom and a chance
to develop’a sense of ethnic pride not
easily cultivated in other institutions.

This is something that the “eight hour
liberal,"* that particular animal. who
commutes back-and-forth.to his bureau-

cracy from the suburbs of D.C., who .
spends “eight hours a day issuing
self-righteous dictums only to return —

“black” colleges play an °

home on the 5:15 for dinner, drinks, and
dancing at his all-white country club in
his lily-white neighborhood, cannot un-
derstand.

The second example of the federal

government as North Carolina's Simon
Legree, HEW's anti-smoking cam-
paign, is such a prototype.

The federal government wants to
bring a social habit which has been a
part of Anferican culture since Raleigh
first. landed on the shores of Carolina
(smoking) into the political realm by
launching a massive anti-smoking cam-
paign, by spending more millions of
dollars to perform a function which those
in our medical profession could accom-
plish on an individual basis.

It has been the contention of the
government that the “tobacco lobby”
promulgates a dangerous habit in order
Lo reap economic gains from supposedly
helpless Americans.

Gee, I wonder how the ‘‘tobacco
lobby,’ the poor dirt farmers who eke
out a living by putting out tobacco, the
many thousands of workers in the
Carolinas who cut, ship, and package
tobacco products, would feel if the
government decided to tighten its grip
on the tobacco industry by prohibiting
smoking? It would probably mean
economic collapse, not for big industrial-
ists, but for the little people whose very
subsistence depends on ‘‘Walter Ra-

leigh’s weed.”

As I hope you can see, the political
realm in this country is slowly eating
more and more out of the social pie;
government robs Peter to pay Paul in
order to promulgate a vision of a land of
milk and honey.

Sadly, liberalism seems to be the only
ideology propounded at Davidson. It is
implied, for example, in a Humanities
course that the United States is shirking
its duty to the world, a world which it

. has fed, clothed, and sheltered from

tyrants, by not supplying one-tenth of

“one percent of its Gross National

Product to the United Nations. —

It is also implied that certain values
once held dear in this country (such ‘as
respect for the Flag and hard work) are
akin to certain elements of Fascism; that
to defend one’s homeland is a cardinal
sin, that free-enterprise an individual
initiative are exploitative as compared to
u utopian society first expounded by
More and later revised for Marxian
interpretation.

A new conservative viewpoint needs
to be expressed in conjunction with
liberalism, not only at Davidson, but
also'‘on many other campuses; I fear that
if itis not, we will all-become whipping
boys. ft is my hope that. this monthly
column will present this viewpoint.

‘Maximum
Sex’

in Love

Mike Mason -

After two intensive weeks of calculus
and limits, to say that I found the idea of
‘“‘maximum”’ sex intriguing is an under-
statement of wondrous proportions. If
there's a limit, then I certainly want to

know: about it. After all, if there exists

an equation which reads ‘‘the limit, as
female availability approaches zero, of
sexual activity,’’ then the ideal environ-
ment in which to discuss it is definitely
Davidson. Besides, the posters reading
“Maximum: Sex in Love Auditorium”
made the event too good to pass up.

So several others and 14 the body
serums of our ancestral fathers pounding .
in our ears, tripped blithely off to the
auditorium at the appointed hour. Ahh,
the wonders we were about to behold; if
we were lucky, this might turn out to be
one of those audience participation
seminars.

The atmosphere had all the exuber-
ance of a double feature of ‘‘Rona Bares
It’ and “Wet Midgets go Wild,”(not
that I'd know.)

Finally, the speaker, the focus of all
this hormone secretion, ascended the
stage, and began to speak. He immedi-
ately promised to make us mad, to fill us
with divine indignation. Oh goody. He
then proceeded to drop the microphone
on the floor a few times and reel it back
up from his waist. Good, this is getting
blatantly Freudian. But from here on,
things deteriorated rapidly. He lectured
in an evangelistic manner, except for
those rare moments when his voice broke
accepted sound barriers, and that gar-
bled sporano screeched to all corners of
the room such linguistic gems as ‘“‘J'm
diiisguhsted!!!"" But we waited with
bated breath, anticipating the moment
he would shear away our innocent
naivete with scissors of sexudl percep-
tion.

Suddenly, there was a glimmer of
hope. He remarked that he would like to
“touch on another area’’— but wait, we
missed it the first time. And, strangely
enough, we continued to miss it. If there
was any instuctional information in that
dissertation, it was lost in a maze of
theology and verbal condescension.

So where was the decadent symbolism
the unlimited debauchery the DCF
posters led us to expect? Certainly not in
the lecture, which, for the most part,
was standard, religiously based love/sex
material— no whips, no chains, nothing.

Even worse, the point of view present-
ed from the podium was conspicuously _
chauvinistic. Apparently, whenever
there occurs sexual activity without an
accompanying good relationship (or a
permission slip signed by one’s parents),
the girl is bound ‘to end up pregnant,
insane; cross-eyed, or dead, while-the
guy, after the same event, walks, albeit
uncomfortably, into the sunset.
throughout the lecture, women were
portrayed ‘as being mangled, martyred,
and molested by unscrupulous men, who
cannot come up (so to speak) with. any
peice ee ee eo can’t help

.” Naughty, naughty men,

ge least the posters for the lecture
remain—fond memories of relevance
that might have been. ‘Next time, take a
hint, folks— if you want de :

is Frank Santore,'8Y, will be writing a

mouthiv cohimn.

stick to Basement Belk.

Mike Mason,'83. is ‘a's “hale writer on
the Bavidsenian, —————— eae

Soqitar
