What Won't

the Laundry
Mangle?

Mike Mason

Please, let us never forget-

Our paramount endeavor—

Yes, there's nothing quite as charming
As a student's ruined sweater,

Or a shirt with a collar

Like a relief map of Maine.
Oh, let’s do our damnedest
To drive some students insane.

This inspirational maxim is reputed to
be the age-old fight (and tear, and rend)
song of that noted campus institution,
the Laundry (that’s a capital L, notice.
We're not messing around with the little
people.) And if my last load of clothes is
any guide, I’m inclined to believe it.
Composed of a hard core battalion of
devoted matrons, the Laundry’s one aim
is obvious—to completely reverse the
Flow of Davidson Fashion. Their met-
hods are simple but ruthless: if it is
pressed, rumple it; if it'is white, color it a
disgusting gray shade; if it is reasonably
expensive, neatly separate the seams so
as to make it unwearable; and so on.

Already they have stifled the nefar-
ious rise of the monogrammed clothing
by rearranging the letters so that they
almost spell various obscenities. Armed
with irons and bleach, they are apparent -
ly prepared to defend the proper attire to
the death.

The only question is, ‘‘What the heck
won't the laundry mangle?” The. Laun-
dry evidently does not approve of button
down shirts (they come back minus the
buttons), straight-legged jeans (they are
obviously left in the washers for inordin-
ate amounts of time so as to gain
wrinkles and zipper rust), or T-shirts
that do not say ‘“‘Davidson’’ (these are
returned eight sizes smaller, complete
with the address of the nearest pygmy
CARE station.

Someone sent in a dishcloth and it
came back shredded, so loincloths are
out. An uneasy truce has resulted,
however, over the use of chain-mail
clothing, although it isn’t known whet-
her the articles come back intact because
they are approved or because teeth are
not as effective with these as they are on
fabrics.

The Laundry’s contributions to Dav-
idson’s social life, it must be said, are
amazing. Already, several halls are
planning hand-me-down parties, where
in shrunken articles are given to some-
one of less stature and stretched articles
to whoever or whatever they fit. Still
other halls are considering having Vul-
garity Festivals, wherein. members dis-
cover who is best suited to the unbeliev-
ably distorted underclothing last re-
ceived. Fun, fun, fun.

Not lohg ago, it was suggested that
the Laundry be open to students on
weeknights, a suggestion which appar-
ently met the same fate as that of
improving Slater Food. The Laundry
‘» open to students on Saturday mor-
nings, when it is well known that there
won't be a soul in his right»mind stirring
from bed, especially to do laundry. After
all, if you are out getting your clothes
dirty Friday night, you're hardly in
shape to press them Saturday morning.

So until such time as it is discovered
what articles the Laundry won't abuse,
or until the intervention of indestructible
fabric, hang of to your hats. That's
probably all you'll have left. -

Mike Mason; "80, writes a fairly
regular.column for the Opinion page
of The Davidsonian. —

celica ail

Transitions

Ken Wood

I think I understand and appreciate
the concern expressed in a recent
editorial—that the College should do
more to assist confused or otherwise
unfocused seniors to ‘‘get out grace-
fully.” But three questions continue to
bug me—get out of what? get into what?
who’s doing what to whom?

Is the editorial suggesting that stu-
dents get out of that glorious~“period of
one’s life when “students should have
four years to expand and explore” and
into the next, somewhat less glorious,
period characterized by job--a transition
the author of the editorial wants all
seniors not definitely bound for graduate

school to accomplish gracefully through -

an expanded placement program? If so,
it suggests that life is made up of neat
little boxes, namely, education, work
and retirement--boxes into which people
must be sucessfully placed. That’s not
the way I experience the management of
life nor its many exciting transitions.
Transitions are important and neces-
sary stages in the main stream of life
through which each of us might move
gracefully. But it is difficult for me to
perceive how such important transitions
can be reduced to a placement operation.

To the contrary, a life-time of transi--

tion-filled expanding, exploring and
working, is one which perceptually
challenges me'and many others who
choose to stay alive as long as we live. It
is this challenge rather than that of
placing persons from one box into
another that excites me both personally
and professionally.

Placement,” at least as it is practiced
on those campuses having less lofty
ideals than Davidson's, appears to me to
be counter-productive to the basic thrust
of a liberal education. That thrust, as I
understand it, is to assist students in
becoming more .educable and more
competent to manage their lives and
their work in ways which serve the
creation of a better self and a better
world (on-going, exploring and expand-
ing, if you will).

Placement could indeed become and
often does become a rather graceless way
to “get out”’ of fulfilling the higher aims
of a liberal arts education. Just as there

is no way to do organic chemistry-

without learning organic chemistry there
may be no way to do the liberal arts
without becoming competent in the art
of managing ones life in the world--in-
cluding taking charge of one’s working
life rather than merely becoming placed
in a job.

Competency in matters which pertain
to self knowledge, self direction, service
to society--one might well call it the art
of living and working,‘ or the art of
managing life's transitions--does not

~ come easily to any of us nor is it limited

to a four-year stint im college. But it

should begin here (if indeed, it has not.
begun much earlier) and be intentionally re

and substantively nourished and sup-

ported here:
-In so many ways, both in and outside

of the classroom, the development of
such competency has been encouraged
and supported. Yet, there is no question
in my mind that this office.and every
other department of the college could do
it more and do it better. There is also no
question in my mind that students,
faculty and staff could take greater
advantage of the resources and oppor-
tunities which are already at our finger
tips.

Within the current limitations of
budget and staff, this office, as a small
part of the total liberal learning program
at Davidson, is attempting to enhance
personal competency in the meaningful
pursuit of life and work. We are most
eager, at every stage of the way, even

during the final term of the senior year ;

and beyond, to encourage, support and
assist student initiatives in practical
ways as they seek fitting employment.

Though we have a long way to go, and
always will, I feel that we are heading in
the right direction with our many
Centering- Venturing workshops, job
seeking seminars and recruitment inter-
views, our externship, internship and
service programs, our participation in
the day-long pre-management seminars
and the Parents Council activities in
behalf of experiential learning and career
exploration, the vast interaction we
foster with alumni and other friends of
the college through field interviews, our
participation in the ‘‘alternatives to
graduate school festival’’ being planned
for next term--to mention only the
highlights.

_At issue in fulfilling the objectives of
liberal arts education is not a graceful
out,,neither by means of an expanded
placement program nor any other handy
dandy placebo. What I want to advocate
is a broad participation in an essentially

’ self-directed learning process through

which one gradually gains the compe-
tency to think, value, research, decide,
choose, and function successfully in
those enterprises and activities which
make up our life and our work both at
-and beyond Davidson.

‘Unless we were to define placement
in such a way as to include the kinds of
mutual efforts suggested above--only
doing them better and participating in
them more fully, it is beyond my
comprehension how “‘placement”’ fits
into this essentially creative and chal<
lenging process from which there is no
graceful ‘‘out.””

I am most pleased to discuss with
anyone the concerns which both The
Davidsonian and I share and to assist in
the implementation of any program
which might enable any student to gain

at the”
Center

Rick Johnston

As pointed out in last week's David-
sonian, Mr. Charles Naas will conduct a
seminar in American Foreign Policy
during winter term at the Center for
Special Studies. He was Deputy Chief of
Mission and Charge d'affaires ‘at the
Americn Embassy in Tehran, fran. His
course promises to be exciting, interest-
ing, and intellectually stimulating.

Unfortunately for more than 1300 of
us not. affiliated with the Center for
Special Studies, an opportunity to have
Mr. Naas as a professor will not be
possible. This is because of a policy
which states that students in the Center
have priority in taking courses offered
there. As it looks now, students in the
Center will fill all the seats available for —
Mr. Naas's course.

There are many political science and ~
history majors who consider American .
Foreign Policy to be their primary field
of study, yet they will be denied the
opportunity to take the course taught by
this unusually talented man.

Granted there are some students in
the Center for Special Studies who have
chosen to concentrate their study in a
discipline related to foreign affairs, but _
most students in the Center study
unrelated subjects such as aging, nutri-
tion, drama, the extent of pollution of
the Rocky River, etc. .

I do not believe the Center for Special
Studies has the right to exclude non-
Center students from its seminars. The
History Department, for example, does
not give complete priority to history
majors, nor does any other department
give priority to its majors.

The Center for Special Studies, incor-
rectly nicknamed the “Honors Center”
by most students, is simply a place for
students who wish to explore a discipline
not offered in the regular curriculum.
The Center has neither a higher nor
lower quality of education than the rest
of the College.

Many students have elected not to
join the Center, and should not be
penalized for having done so. Some
students are satisfied with the opportun-
ities available in their respective depart-
ments, while others have yet to encount-
er one specific subject they would like to
pursue as a discipline.

Personally, I feel that a self-designed
program based upon independent study
does not take full advantage of what the
faculty can teach you. Since I pay
almost thirty dollars a day. to study here,
I want to learn as much from Davidson's
outstanding faculty as I can. I will.
always be able to read books in a library.

The Center for Special Studies plays a
vital role at Davidson, and adds to the
College's fine academic reputation; but it
is not, for everyone. Students at the

. Center are no more intelligent or diligent

than the rest of us, and don’t deserve
special priviages-whes Chay, sites Teer
courses.

I urge the Center for Special Studiés
to drop their policy regarding priority
sae en couea or ae exe

than suffer the indignity of being YA

“placed. .

Ken Wood is the director of the Office
of Experiental Programs at Davidsan.

the drawing is by Vonnie Hendrickson.

