is 0 a. |
ted someone
3 who’s been

- _By PATSY DANIELS
Staff Writer
If you are one of the fortunate few to be making a trek to St.
Anne's this July, do not make the mistake of assuming that the
British celebrate summer. Expect cold and rain. The sun usually
peeps out at you in the early morning, long enough for you to get
your hopes up. Then the clouds and drizzle ambush you as soon as
you fly out to the dorm with your gym shorts on and tennis racquet
in hand. You swear that someone up there has a warped sense of

humor while you tear your room apart in search of the umbrella.

that lurks beneath your laundry bag back in Davidson.
_ It is rumored that Queen Elizabeth orders rain, insists upon it
(no, Merlin isn’t dead; she hides him in the Tower of London). Ever
since Virginia Wade won Wimbledon the queen has made it rain so

3) AVOID the mistake of
using Master Plots in the St.
Anne’s library. I did this once,
not realizing that the librarian
was standing behind me (I
thought she was the dietician).
she poked a bony finger into my
back and whispered through
tight lips, “‘We do not consider
that to be good scholarship
here.’’Do not eat, smoke or
chatter in the library. Do not
chew gum or your nails. o not
laugh. Do not call the librarian
a bat; do not mistake her for the
dietician even if they do look
alike.

4) AVOID skipping off to the
the famous Bodleian Library
without your library card.
Learn how to find the Bod (as
the veterans call it) early in the
program lest you reveal your
academic ineptitude, ds I did:
One rainy afternoon I ran into
Dr. Boulton at the corner of
Woodstock, I asked, ‘‘Jona-

’ than, how do you get to the

her country could quit while it was ahead. Once again the emphasis ©

is on pomp and circumstance. If you do not believe me, here’s
proof: My first week in London a friend and I took in a day at
Wimbledon. The clouds hung over us for two hours as Ms. Wade
edged past an African in the first round. She lost in the quarters
and it began to drizzle. She zipped up her racquet covers,bade
farewell, and it began to pour. The Americans, Rumanians and
Swedes battled on wet grass the rest of the week and the newspaper
emphasis changed from ‘“‘Day’s Play on Center Court” to “Have
You Tried the Strawberries & Cream?’’ They re-released
photographs of the victorious Wade of '78 curtsying before the
queen, the sun glinting off her silver trophy, with captions such as,
““Remember When?’’ ;

On to St. Anne’s. You will have spacious accomodations: A room
to yourself, a desk, bookshelves, a bed, a wardrobe, three coat
hangers, and a portable heater that requires five pence for
operation (and then requires five more just as soon as the coils
begin to glow). My window overlooked the college gardens. Roses
everywhere. They are in a state of suspended animation; they never
die because they never thaw. Do not pick them or step on them.
Yes, I know you will be intrigued by their beauty. But after a few
weeks the novelty wears off. When you've seen one wet flower
you've seen ’em all. At St.Anne’s you will live in moderate comfort.
Your imagination will revel in the antiquity, the splendor, the
majesty, but you will only be moderately comfortable, just as you
would be were you to sleep in a museum.

At eight o'clock each morning you can, if you so desire, stumble
into the dining hall for breakfast. Expect unusual cuisine. The
toast is cold, not because you had to wait fifteen minutes in line for

it, not because you didn’t butter it soon enough, but because the:

' British like it that way. The kitchen staff occasionally makes an
effort to please the Americans. Your first night there they will
serve you their all-American special...turkey. This is to remind you

that you are only a visitor, that you are fallen British and can never |

return to their paradise. The eggs are fine because the British have
not yet learned how to put filler in them. The tea and coffee are
excellent. The steak and kidney pies are the staff's idea of an inside
joke. Once I was served a long, flat pink thing on a bed of rice. I
asked the cook what it was. He stuck out his tongue.

At ten o'clock the Davidson group meanders into the lecture
room where they will eagerly await a stimulating lesson to be given
by an Oxford don. You have the chance to become exposed to the
Oxonian intelligentsia. We were lectured by noted men such as Dr.
Christopher Hill and Dr. Slack. Topics were various and intriguing:
‘The History of Oxford University,’’ ‘Oxford University’s
History,"" “The Past of Oxford University,” “A Look Into How
Oxford was Founded.” There were lectures on ‘Parliament,

“The Queen,” ““The Late Liz,” ‘Was Shakespeare Really Bacon,”
“Was Shakespeare Really Marlowe,” ‘Was sabes 8

If you are truly serious about living in Great Britain this
summer, Then I suggest that you carefully study my list of
THINGS TO AVOID.

1) AVOID asking directions of anyone who is obviously British.
EXAMPLE: You are wandering outside the tube station in
Paddington. You spot a distinguished white haired man wearing
tweed, smoking a pipe and sniffing. You ask, ‘Excuse me sir, but
how do you get to Buckingham Palace?” The typical answer is,
“Oh, I say...sniff.. -quite simple. Walk straight then take a right
then a left then follow the pavement ’til ya’take ‘nother right then a
left then turn ‘round four times...sniff...then hop on one foot thrice

aoe then follow the pavement |

‘gain and ya can’t, ae

“2) AVOID in fhe Unfortunately, you cannot.The problem is
that fifty eq ne ¢ , 80 whenever you buy a coke or a
Wimpy burger or a beer, just remember that you are not, no indeed
’ not, spending only fifty cents. ee

They are seventy Ne pence per dozen. you room with roses,
earn wa icecream Sale,

omit

Bodleian, I mean the Bod?” He
replied, ‘‘Why, you follow the
pavement then take a left then a
right then hang nother left then
a right and jump over the
cracks in the sidewalk and...I
say, Patsy, you’ve been here,
what, six weeks now? And you
still don’t know where ’tis?’’

“No sir,” I flipped up my collar
and hurried on, ‘Ihave no sense
of direction.’ Remember that
one does not check books out ot
the Bodleian, nor does one
underline profundities in yellow
or any color, nor does one mar
their pages in any way. The
Bodleian is a very serious
institution. It sells a wide
selection of post cards in the
lobby and one may not use the
loo unless he has his library
card:

5) AVOID buying steak in
restaurants. The cattle are
grass fed and the steak should
not be fed to anyone. The
British bind books with it
during surplus years.

6) AVOID asking how to find
the London Bridge.

7) AVOID driving unless you
are swre you can remember
which side of the road to stay
on.

8) AVOID being a passenger
unless you are sure you can
remember which side of the car
to get in.

9) AVOID renting a bicycle.
The chains fall off. The baskets
are so big as to make steering
impossible. The fee is exorbi-
tant. They are not made by
Rolls Royce nor are they de-
signed by Triumph. Walking is
preferable.

11) If you visit Stonehenge,

AVOID waiting for the sun to
rise or set on the heelstone. The
sun is at the Riviera in the
summer.

12) Across from St. Anne's is
the Ratcliffe. AVOID thinking
that this is a college; it is
hospital. Thus, AVOID walk.

ing into the emergency room

and asking if they sell tee
shirts. |

St. Anne’s is an adventure.
You can be miserable or you can
have a marvelous time. It’s up
to you. I suggest that you take
advantage of your opportunity
to travel. Go to Scotland and
Wales. Take advantage of your
location on Oxford; be sure to
visit the famous pub on Wood-
stock, “The Eagle and Child.”
It was once a favorite of C. S.
Lewis, Tolkien, and ‘The Ink-
lings."’ It is wise to do most of
your traveling at the beginning
of the program because later on
you'll find yourself fatigued and
short of funds.

Bon Voyage to all of you.
Travel light. Leave blow dryers
and electric curlers at home.
Acquire a.taste for Chinese,
Pakistani and Italian food.
Study foreign languages; very
little English is spoken in Great
Britain these days because of
the mass influx of tourists.
Have a good time and give my
regards to the queen.

Loving

for Mother’s Day

Remembrances

THE VILLAGE. STORE

ECan Gs aaliad

The
Exit copetand House Gallery

ot The Village Store, Oavidson, N.C.

Custom framing/artist’s supplies/

original art/prints/ posters

ay

SE ORE.

ede

~>
