‘ October 19, 1979—The Davideonian—3-

THE VILLAGE STORE
pane By ma: ohne

Do you ever get tired of
spending your Saturday after-
noons watching uniformed ath-
letes play hot potato with a
pigskin and pattycake with
their heads? Ever have this
overwhelming urge to don an
outrageous costume and display
your own athletic prowess?
Well, this Saturday the D.C.

Riding Program is giving you

“ Brings you a world of gifts

( Browsing Welcomed 9 a.m. to.5:30 p.m. )

Best Food East of Tulsa a the chance to satisfy such

oil ip urges, and here’s the kicker:
“pizza Mon-Wed 11-2:30 ba your performance will take
ee 5-8:00 : Happy Hour & A Half Every place atop a galloping stéed and
-hoagies sas, Thursday & Friday Night will be videotaped for posterity

__ Thurs-Sat 11-2:30 8:30-10:00 (and a good laugh).

-homemade Quiche 5-12 The First Annual Gymkhana
-American & Sunday 5-10 pe oe 892-8686 and. Hayride is a: grest.chance
import beer re for all you equestrians and

closet athletes to come out and

exhibit your talents in public.
For us non-equestrian types,

the best part will be the hay ride

-Inglencok Wines

40

WE'D LIKEYOU TO MEET THE MEMBERS
OFOUR STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD

Diana Pierce ‘81, Mike Mittelman - Loan Officier, Don Howie

- Davidson Branch Manager, Burkley Mann ‘80, JohnJackson
Stuart Dorsett ‘82, and Richard Terry ‘81.

Coercion less isn ina Mndi eases the
students, and Piedmont Bank and they're ready and willing to answer
financial questions suchas the following:

©. == “How can a bank help students establish creditand why lek important to doso before —
fn teh act sation?”
A = “A saving account, checking account and/or Master Charge card propery handled areal methods by
" _ which credit can be s established. By managing any one of these accounts responsibly, an individual
shdws that he or she can handle financial matters..A creditrating is important when someone wants _”
to rentan apartment, buy a car on credit, or even have aphone installed. Because future creditors wil
look at past financial records, itis important to act responsibly now and begin to ——
. Redmont Bank isthe only area bank where, as a student customer, youre entitled to captained
Master Charge card.

If you would like some more informations
on this particular question or if you have

other financial questions, please talk with
one of our Student Advisory Board

PIEDMONT BANK

AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER F.D.LC.

members.

Hayride for non-riders f
Gymkhana throws down

the gauntlet to equestrians

out to the stables. It begins
behind Belk at 12:30, Rar ga for
you ‘‘gutless whimps and
nerds,” who disdain such pas-
toral activities, there will be
cars leaving (also from behind
Belk) at 1:15. —

Upon your arrival, ring mas-
ters Mark Duckett and Trisha
Haynes will “comment on and
coordinate such varied events
as: Barrel Racing (‘‘No, not on
horse—on a barrel. Penalties
are only for feet touching the
ground. Anything else goes.”),
a Costume Contest (“Wearing
whatever concoction, you feel is
most becoming, climb onto a:
horse and parade around. You
will be judged by your peers
with no identifyable criter-
ion.”), and an Obstacle Course
(‘Steer your steed mounted and
unmounted, through, over, a-
round, and into menacing ter-
rain in the ring; fastest time
wins. Will make or break your
relationship with the ani-
mal...’’). ;

Also included are such nutri-

‘tional treats as the Carrot Bite

and The Apple Bob Relay, and
ee
sold. ;

Entry fees are es
cents per event, and the events
are loosely divided into three
categories: the ‘‘People-who've-
seldom /never-been-on-a-horse,
“People-who've-ridden-some-
but-aren’t-at-home-in-the-sad-
le,’’ and ‘‘People-who-think
they’re-pretty-tough”’ di-
sions. As you will undoubtedly
fit at least one of the above,
you can pick up an entry form
at the Union, Chambers, or the
Post Office; faculty participa-
tion is especially invited. For
further information call Virginia
Dummit at -6142.

Ghie Copeland

House Gallery

now showing
.: PAINTINGS _
by EMILY ABBOTT
art - office -schook
supplies

~ custom framing _

305 N. MAN STE
eee C. 28036
(704) 892-3005
