On Campus

Thursday, November 29

10:15am Dr. Tom Skinner: Staley Lecturer Love
7:00pm Dr. Tom Skinner Be Love
Friday, November 30 j oan
10:00 Dr. Tom Skinner
12:30 Lunch with Tom Skinner Morrison Room
2:30 Conversation with Tom Skinner Conversation Pit
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film; ‘‘Little Big Man’ . Love
9:00 Band Party Featuring ‘‘Blue Condition Emanon
Sunday. December 2
6:00 Davidson Christian Fellowship : 900 Room
7:30 Concert by Early Music Group Phi Hall
Monday, December 3
7:30 Forum on the Draft 900 Room
‘Tuesday, December 4 ek
10:00 Open Meeting with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
10:00pm Concert by James Swisher, Shirley Jackson, :

and Kirk Trevor 900 Room

Wednesday, December 5
The Charlotte Symphony Chamber Orchestra, under the 8:00 Fine Film: ‘‘Three Sisters”’ Love
direction of Kirk Trevor, Assistant Conductor of the Charlotte
Symphony Orchestra, will perform 5 free concerts of Christmas

music for the citizens of Charlotte. Funded in part by the City of S
Charlotte and the Arts & Science Council, these Sidewalk Concerts ports
are planned to share the spirit of Christmas” with busy people
throughout the City. - Saturday, December | :
The locations of the concerts are: | 9:00 Wrestling: Catawba Tournament negra
Wednesday, December 5, Pease Auditorium, CPCC, at 1 p.m 2:00 Swimming: Vanderbilt | Away
. Thursday, December 6, Poadoe Mall, at7 p.m. r : 7:30 Basketball: Wofford Johnston Gym
Saturday, December 15, Cotswold Shopping Center, 2 p.m. a
Tuesday, December 18, Charlottetown Mall, 12:15 p.m. Monday, December 3 ;
The Brass Quintet will play Christmas selections at the Tree Basketball: VMI Lexington, Va.
Trimming Ceremony at City Hall on December 14 at 12 noon.
Some of the works to be performed by the Chamber Orchestra ‘Tuesday, December 4
include A Christmas Festival by LeRoy Anderson, selections from 6:30 Women’s Basketball: Converse Johnston Gym
the Nutcracker Suite by Tschaikowsky, Five Christmas Carols by

Willcocks, Concerto Grosso #8 in G (Christmas) by Corelli, and
lwo Elegiac Melodies by Grieg.

Take part in Davidson tradition.

Skinner to deliver Staley Lectures ‘Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious wis at Mooresville’s

Tom Skinner, a black evangelist who once was head of the
Harlem Lords street gang, will give three Staley Lectures at

Davidson College Nov. 29-30. | a 2 :

_ Skinner, 37, gave up his gang leadership at age 15 to pursue the ( ibe 4
Christian life. Educated at Wagner College and Manhattan Bible %

Institute and through American Management Association pro-

grams, he is president of Tom Skinner Associates, an international

evangelical organization. His weekly radio program, ‘Tom Skinner
Speaks,” is heard on many black-oriented stations, and he has been : ; , a :
_ an occasional host of ‘The PTL Club” television program produced , y, 4

in Charlotte.
Skinner and his associates specialize in ministering to college ’
students, city-wide crusades, street groups, black leadership
seminars, and prisons. He is chairman of the board of Urban The food maintains an excelient reputation for being fresh, warm,
Ministries, Inc., which publishes educational materials especially on ;
for the black church. He has written four books: “Black and Free,”
“Words of Revolution,” “‘How Black is the Gospel?” and “If Christ and of exceltent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed
is the Answer, What are the Questions?” ee ;
The Black Student Coalition is having lunch with Dr. inner in
the Morrison Room on Friday at 1:00. Sign up at chatiaiia May atmosphere or the take-out order. service.
if you want to attend. He will also be in the Conversation Pit from ’
2:30 to 4:30 on Friday. ~
Skinner's addresses willbe at 10:15 a.m. and 7 p.m. Thursday Munch on a pizza from King of Pizza and see how much you enjoy it.
and at 10 a.m. Friday, all in Love Auditorium, Chambers Building.

Konove to spéak on solar greenhouses:

Chapel Hill will be on campus umday, December 2 to’give.a slide.
show and talk on “Building Your‘Qwn Solar Greenhouse.” Mr.
Konove was the supervisor of re use recently built in — APSE Care
Huntersville by the Davidson E G :
Service Corps. aes ;

_ Paul Konove’s group builds green uses. ughout the
southeast in order to train the local people in to b them.
income families and can provide 30 to 36 percent of a familiy’s
Paul Konove will give his slide show and talk at 7:30 Sunday
evening in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Everyone is
invited! : .

aL TT

BR
n> UR

