New director of South Asian Studies
will also emphasize China and Japan

Notes on Students
Philadelphia Urban Semester

During the winter term nine Davidson students are on the
Philadelphia Urban Semester. The purpose of the experiential
program is “to investigate a city as a system of human interaction”
and to blend theory and experience.

All students will participate in the city seminar, field experience
and one of the many urban studies seminars in art, communications,
education, political and social issues, and research or social work.

’ The students studying in Philadelphia are: William Coward,

Virginia Dummit, Merideth Durden, Linda Dusenbury, Patricia
Haynes, Joyce Hoffman, Carole Loftin, Will Long, and Laura
Michael.

North Caniie Fellows

Selections for the North Carolina Fellows Program were made this
weekend.

From approximately eighty initial applicants, ten freshmen were
chosen as members of the North Carolina Fellows Class of 1982.

John Hay Chung, Michael Edward Cooper, Robert Crawford

_Ervin, Daniel Ettedgui, Samuel Clyde Fullerton, Richard Lee
Gergoudis, Donna Jean Iles, Diane Kay Odom, James Leslie
Troutman, and Craig Justice White were»named North Carolina
Fellows for the Class of 1982.

Ten Little Indians

By TOM BESSELLIEU
Staff Writer

“Ten little Indian boys’ went out to dine,

One choked his little self and then there were nine.’

This simple, if slightly gruesome, verse is the humble Aisa
for one of the world’s best loved mystery thrillers, Agatha
Christie’s Ten Little Indians. Millions have been kept up all hours
of the night reading how the residents of a desolate island off the
coast of England are secretly murdered, one by one, just like the
little Indians, until...Well, if you have read the book, you know.

Now, the suspense and thrill of Christie is proudly brought to the
stage in the Davidson College Drama Department’s upcoming
Workshop Production, Ten Little Indians, directed and designed
by Asst. Professor Joseph Gardner. Opening night is Thursday,
January 25, at 7 pm. But if you like your mystery thrills late at
night when the moon is out and the dogs are howling on the hills,
then you can come to the late night performance at 10 pm
Thursday. Friday, January 26, will also have a 7 pm and 10 pm

ial ce tals bictra thvilie in otto for thoes Attending win have
already read the novel, ee Pnane has changed the
ending!

Phar hier wk ik sdcehiteaad in: the. Weoukabiop roomn; rether: thin
Hodson Hall, to provide a closer atmosphere, keeping you on the
edge of your proverbial seat.

The cast includes: Mrs. Rogers, played by Esther Bruce; Rogers, :

played by Clifton Fay; Narracott, played by Billy Taylor; Vera
‘Claythorne, played by Ann Burke; Philip Lombard, played by
John Boswell; Anthony Marston, played by John Niblock; William
Moore, played by Jack Hall; General MacKenzie, played by Chris
Conrad; Emily Brent, played by Ann Parker; Sir Lawrence
Wargrave, played by James Baskin; and Dr.’ eee: played
by Joel Shirk.

Because of limited space, there will be no reservations, either in
person or by phone. There will be advanced ticket sales on the
day of each performance for each performance. Sales for
Thursday’s shows will go on from 9-10:30 am at the Post Office,
during coffee and cokes in Chambers Gallery, and from 2-5 pm at
the Box Office in Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Friday will also
have advanced ticket sales in the same morning and afternoon
hours. All tickets, both in advance and at the door, are $1.50.

To keep up the suspense, Gardner has asked the production cast
and crew not to tell the ending, but just between you and me, the
killer is- Oh, Hi, Dr. Gardner, I was just- No! Wait! Put that gun

Smoking in class banned

By LINDA HOOPES
Features Editor
and
GEORGE MURDAUGH
Senior Opinion Editor

The “‘other half” of the world
will return to the spotlight this
spring, as Professor Job Tho-
mas comes to Davidson to
assume the directorship of the
South Asian Studies program.

Mr. Thomas is not a newcom-
er to Davidson, having taught
here in 1972-73. He is presently
at the University of Michigan in
Ann Arbor, working on his
doctorate, and will arrive by the
end of January to prepare for
spring term.

Although he enjoys the re-
sources of the large university,
he feels that the city is ‘‘so loud,

and you are nothing but a

number,” and is looking for-
ward to the move back to
Davidson.

“There is a small, comfort-
able, secure feeling” about a
place like Davidson. He seems
to be anticipating the personal
interaction with the students.

Thomas still keéps in touch
with. some of his former stu-
dents from his year here. He
also hopes to find time to
pursue his interests in photo-
graphy and art.

Amelia, Thomas’ wife, and
his son and daughter (Vinod,
2%, and Sujata, 9) will also
make the move south. The
family will live, appropriately

enough, in Dr. Devon’s former
house on Concord Road.
Thomas’ emphasis in the
South Asian Studies program
will be somewhat different from
that of Dr. Tonia Devon, former
director of the program. He
wants to offer more exposure to
China and Japan, ‘‘striking the
balance that students need.’’
He will begin teaching in the
spring, offering two sections of
a 101 course in the civilization
of India. In the fall, ,he will

teach 101 and probably an
Indian history course through

_ the history department.

Since his specialty is Indian
art, he will emphasize that
aspect in his courses and ossi-
bly teach a course in Asian art
later.

Professor of Religion David
Kaylor, presently acting direc-
tor of the program, said he does
not know the fate of the South
Asian Politics course, which
was Devon's specialty.

Dorm space diminishes

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)
—You pack your bags for
school, land on campus, and
discover that dorm space, once
assured, is now in doubt. After
waiting in limbo during regis-
tration week, you find yourself
crammed into a dorm room with
two other people.

The dorm space jam scenario
was more common on more
campuses this year than ever
before, and now the experts are
projecting that the problem will
persist into the foreseeable fu-
ture.

One reason is that colleges
and universities expect enroll-
ment to decline through the
next 10-12 years. They’re reluc-
tant to build expensive dormi-
tories to relieve the current
crowding because those very
same new dorm rooms may be
empty by the time they’re

complete. Because of construc-
tion costs and current high
mortgage rates, though, the
schools would still have to pay
for those new rooms.

But the other major reason
for the continuing shortage is
rooted in federal policy, set in
the sixties, that contributes
federal funds for classroom
space only.

The result is that some
schools have employed creative
means to get around the federal
policy. Ithaca College in New
York, or example, ripped the
living spaces out of several
dorm buildings, several stories
high, and converted them into
classroom space to the buil-
dings could qualify for subsidies
under government aid pro-
grams. There is, as the result, a

Shortage of dorm space on Y the

campus.

(CPS)—“We’ve been condi- § Wolokowitz, though, was on-
tioned (to smoke) by society _ly one of several local professors
ever since we were young, by The Towerlight, the school’s
the Marlboro Man and others,” student newspaper, found who
complains Dr. Alfred Woloko- continue to smoke during their
sor at Towson State University Another was political science
in Maryland. “‘And it is arbitra- _ professor Dr. Eric Belgrad, who
ry to suddenly take that right told.the paper he. loses concen- :
away.’ tration if he doesn’t smoke

' The school’s Academic Coun- during his two-and-a-half hour

cil, in fact, took the right away

last-spring, making Towson
State one of at least seven

the country that have prohibi- |

seminars. —
Wolokowitz, on the other

f bject to his om oking to “‘either
sit by a window or drop the

_ Class.”

