Slater’s
Secret
Recipes

Revealed

Mike Mason

“I’m so hungry, I could eat a horse.”’

And if you go to Richards, you
probably will. Or some other equally
convenient mammal—anyone seen
Butch lately?

In fact, speculation as to the dubious
origin of much of Slater’s repertoire of
culinary delights is a major topic of
conversation at any table. So, in a
valient attempt to restore abdominal
order, here are some brilliant pieces of

deductive logic produced in past weeks —

concerning the ancestry and background
of those. controversial entrees and sus-
pect desserts. Logic is about all we have
left,.since, of course, taste has proved to:
be no help at all in determining the
nature of the substances consumed.

The entrees themselves. pose an enor-
mous question. Isn’t it amazing what
they can do with plastics nowadays?
Who would’ve thought that the same
stuff that makes Saran Wrap could wind
up as a semi-edible 1 main dish? (Anyone
who’s eaten it, that’s who.) The big
tip-off here was the meatloaf, which has
proved to. be among the most flexible
and pliant substances on earth. What
other matter do you know of that, in a
singlé playful repast, may be turned into
a merry-go-round, an AM/FM digital
clock radio, and a passable reproduction
of Emily Bronte’s original manuscript of
Wuthering Heights, with just an artistic
twist of the fork? Mealtimes can be fun.

Another epicurean fantasy long shrou-
ded in intrigue is the exact nature and
source of the brownies. They were long
believed to be ceramic, since their
texture is not noticeably different from
that of the plates on which they rest.
More perceptive observation, however,
‘has revealed their true source. Just
think, where else have you noticed that
same bony texture? That’s right, the
icing on top of the cake. Now, consider
the fact that the icing grows thicker
every day—why, all that needs to be
done is to chisel off the first eight
sedimentary layers of icing at the
appropriate time, and there you have
them—brownies galore. And who would
have thought our little ol’ food service
capable of such ingenuity? (Anybody
_who’s eaten them, that’s who.)

The salad dressing cleverly disguised
as “Thousand Island,”’ however, is still
posing analytic problems to the best
minds of the freshman class. A convin-
cihg case, though, has been made by
those who purport that it is a spinach
pizza flavored combination of common
campus substances, some of which may
be found growing in sidewalk cracks
outside Chambers. Who would've thou-:
ght our food service would such
synthetic miracles? t (Anybody who’ a
eaten it, that’s who.)

I’ve said, at cevin ions a
mt 0 sree:

=~

Blame It On The Ratio

Bob Gould .

As an institution of. higher learning
and intellectual stimulation, Davidson

College ranks right up there with

Harvard and Stanford. As an institution
of social iritercourse and gala parties,
however, Davidson falls somewhere in
between Attica State Prison and Pope
Paul’s Jesuit Monastery. Davidson has
a problem; there just aren’t enough
women on campus. That is just fine and
dandy if you intend to be a pre-celibacy
major. But what about the rest of us?
Davidson’s problem, the paucity of
female students, influences all Davidson
students. The effects of this problem are
obvious enough. Davidson males must
fiercely compete for the “best looking
coeds.’’ Such competition does not
promote male friendships. Davidson

females, on the other hand, often find _

themselves surrounded by seven gaping
football players at parties. This makes

the women feel uncomfortable. Many

coeds, especially freshmen, have devised
a way of coping with this problem; they
hang around in packs of eight. .

“Freshmen women, especially the “fo
xes,” are put on display at Davidson.
The demand for these neophytes, unfor-
tunately, outstrips their supply. Upper-
classmen are anxious to cull this new
crop and naturally give the “freshwo-
men” a lot of attention. As a result,
sophomore girls are ignored and feel
jealous of the girls in Richardson.

The problem is further compounded
by freshman boys who must compete
with upperclassmen for these same girls
in Richardson. Upperclassmen, how-

er, feel that they should have first pick

any girls. No one is happy. At

best, the two-to-one » male/female ratio

‘means that two-thirds of the guys will

not get dates. .The net result is social

frustration and sexual anxiety among
Davidson students.. e

How can the Davidson community
‘alleviate. this problem? Ideally, the

tage of incoming freshman girls every
year.

Liquidation of some members of the
Davidson male population could create a
more balanced population. Some Poly-
nesian tribes of the Munay Islands
recognized the importance of main-
taining the delicate balance of nature
and their community. Mother Nature’s
one man-to-one woman ratio was of the
utmost importance. If this ratio was not
perfect, these trips would sacrifice the
members of. whichever sex was over-
abundant until the one-to-one correl-
ation was reachieved. By supporting a
two-to-one male/female ratio, Da-
vidson has thrown Mother Nature a
curve ball. Unlike the Polynesians,
however, to exterminate male students
at Davidson would be an immoral and
impractical solution.’

Importing females from nearby
schools for Davidson parties may solve
some immediate problems, like getting
guys dates, but only prolongs the real

problem. When the ‘‘Queenies’’ or

Converse girls leave campus every
Saturday night, Davidson College still
has a two-to-one ratio. Besides, David-
son coeds do not like to compete with
these'girls and feel hostile towards them.

The best solution to our problem, the
dearth of Davidson coeds, is really quite
simple. The Director of Admissions

‘should admit more freshmen females

each year, and at the same time, should

‘phase out freshman males. As it stands
‘now, many female applicants are not

accepted, even though they are more

‘qualified. In a few years, the percentage

of women would be significantly higher.
Everyone would be happy.

It is up to the Davidson College Board
of Trustees and President Spencer to
take some affirmative action on our

‘problem. A chain is only as strong as its’

weakest link; a college is only as strong
as its weakest. constituent. Let's. up-
grade Davidson’ s social atmosphere.

pena a eeleay. ts Tenens

padi cat As, it: stands.

nd at Davidson is like _
haga gc confine- .

“y have long been a source of concern to

certain members of the community.
Although both students and faculty

cial
addressed by the administration and
trustees. Answers, when offered, tend to

: be vague and unhelpful; the budget

‘statement published last. year by the

q Update is a recent

example.
The advent of a new football season
makes this ‘‘dialogue” again relevant,

‘not because football poses a threat to

‘Davidson, but because the program as it
is now structured seems to be unsuited
to this college. One is justified in

. questioning whether the scale of David-

son’s involvement in football can be
defended in light of other financial needs
which are vital to educational quality.

The following questions are offered in
the interest of continuing the dialogue
and in the the hope that, to the extent
that they are valid concerns, they will -
lead to a critical review of current.”
priorities.

1. How can Davidson justify spending
some $40,000 for football recruiting
(Update, April 1979) a sum greater than
the $24,500 (quoted byed White's prede-
cessor at Southwestern last January)
which Southwestern at Memphis spends

‘on its entire football program?

2. Why has the student-faculty ratio
at Davidson been allowed to rise to 14:1?
Could the $234,00 deficit incurred by the
football program (Update,April 1979)
not be put to better use rescuing the
ratio!

3. Is it not true that the heavy
recruiting practiced by the football team
might tend to bring some students to
this heavily academic college for totally
non-academic reasons? Is _ the
admissions department required to
spend any of its budget on football
recruiting? Why is discrimination prac-
ticed in the awarding of financial aid to
football players?

4. The salaries of Davidson. faculty
members have failed to keep pace with

_ inflation(Davidsonian, March 23, 1979).
Is the same true of the athletic budget?

5. Can the existence of an expensive
intercollegiate athletic program at a
small liberal arts college be justified?
Specifically; must Davidson compete in
Division 1-AA, which is composed pre-
dominately of schools with enrollments
of over 14,000?

Must we schedule opponents whose
distances from campus generate large
travel expenses and field a team so large
that it represents one twelfth of the
student body?

6. What justification is there for
special privileges allowed the football.
team, such as unlimited. food at Slater
and subsidization of Pop Films?

7. Is it not true that serious recurring
course registration problems could be
partially alleviated by a growth in the
faculty? And could this growth not be
accomplished in part by a reduction in
the football deficit?

Football is not in itself an. evil, and
this column in no way intends to

- advocate the eradication of the sport
’ from Davidson. I write, rather, from the

position that the college’s expenditures
on football far outweigh that which can
rationally be accepted.

We are a school dedicated above all to

academic excellence. I hope to stimulate

Le ees eee ee

The: Pre . He w

"member of rhe Coals ; Om
