Bia Bee as Seger a
checking plans. ‘The regular
program no service charge if
id remains above $200.
er. If the balancé falls below $200,
“the there is a $1 monthly fee plus 15
| cents a check.

5 According to Tom Dutton, an
official at First Union, quite a
few: Davidson students hold
accounts at First Union.

, but, according to - -
, many students prefer -/* ‘.
gies of a Wildcat Evaluation 7

’ (Continued from Page 1)

had some transfer to the regular either interviews with students | eas
system.” pate: of letters from students since

er Chose. sil g the regular the system “embraces all stud-
checking 5} at Piedmont, ents,” not just the ones \with |
; Abbott concedes that “Some
people just’ don’t like forms,”
but envisions no major prob-
‘lems implementing the new .

system. ‘‘Generally.the reaction
(of the faculty) was positive,”
che said. - i.
_ Coal Take part in Davidson tradition. ae = ag
ition- — altaa ‘Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious pizza at Mooresville’s king oy i
gb food ree an excellent reputation for being fresh, warm; Bo -
Continued from Page work on getting the correct of excellent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed atmosphere -
St a eh et information and not go off — Or Wie akg out Ge Pete
Swofford, Frazier Worth. half-cocked.”’- u aes King of Pizza and see how much you en:
Austin adds that the group has The first poster quotes Dav- . si * foy tt.
gk ore ee bax: stipe digest aug Aitaae ° 241 South Broad Sweet
7 | . Mooresville, N.C.

-, three came from a January

letter from Southwestern’s for-
mer Athletic Director Dick
“Thornton to Davidson's ‘NC-

i 2 gave Dav-

idson’s student faculty ratio at. .
10:1 in 1970 and 14:1 in 1979.
ae ‘Austin said he got these figures
the Trustees aware of our from The College Blue Book, a
concerns.” _ * book of vital statistics of col-

Head Football Coach Edward jeges and universities in the
‘Farrell said he is not upset by United States.
‘the Coalition's activities, “In Farrell agreed that “football
twenty-three years of coaching, costs a lot of money,’’ but ~
this sort of thing is not un- added that, “We are now in a
usual. ‘position to generate some in-
‘What does concern him is the come “resulting from the possi-
inaccuracy of some of the  bhility of televised Southern
figures that the group has used. Conference games.”

“If they really care about this, ” He explained that if any
he. maintains, they spesis Southern Conference team
plays Davi ‘in a televised

game, Davidson will receive
—PIRG —— Sra0%

__ Also, Farrell maintains that ‘
‘obpect to PIRG can always ee ee be gs
mark their contribution off the nearly as significant as people

_ ill. She noted that students do think.”
zations funded ‘through the is the implied view that the

activity fee. . ‘program is using ite .
Lo glen gone ‘irresponsibly. ;

- 994 North Main Street Post Ortice Box 30 oe
| MOORESVILLE, WORTH CAROLINA 26115, ee...

