February 2, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

Wildcats fall to Furman

By DAVE VAUGHN ny
: “Staff Writer
Following two impressive wins over Wake Forest and the
Citadel, the Cats suffered a 97-86 setback to Southern Conference

power Furman last Saturday night. The game featured a match-up
between Jonathan Moore of Furman and Davidson’s John

Gerdy—the two leading Candidates for conference player of the

year. The fans weren’t disappointed.

After trading early baskets, the Cats appeared to be off and
running again when Gerdy unleashed a vicious dunk, but a win was

not to be.

Ernie Reigel commented that several key turnovers allowed
Furman to gain the momentum. Gerdy committed his third foul in
the last minutes of the first half and had to sit out. The Cats trailed

by nine at intermission.

The second half featured continued inspired play by the Cats’

fine freshman bigmen, Brian Rowan and Jamie Hall, as well as the
usual second half heroics of Gerdy.

Hall made several inside moves, including a nice jam, and Rowan
added one of his own late in the game.

Gerdy and Rich Perkey consistently bombed the Paladins from
the outside; Perkey gct into double figures with 10 points with a
five for six shooting night. Gerdy finished with 32 points.

Unfortunately, Furman was able to match the Cats’ strong
second half shooting and held on to win by 11 points.

This Saturday, Davidson continues league play against Western
Carolina’s hot Catamounts. Rick Barnes, assistant coach of the
Cats, said that he was worried about Carolina’s hustling, board
crashing style of play. He added that Davidson will have to grab
the momentum early to win in the den of the Catamounts.

Cattes lose to Wingate

By ROB GILLISON
Asst. Sports Editor

The lady Wildcats failed in
their bid to avenge a previous
one point loss to Wingate. The
Cattes lost Tuesday night by a
51-36 score.

“We really played poorly,”
explained coach Susan Roberts.
“We couldn’t run our patterns
or take advantage of the fast
break,’’ she added.

The first half was relatively
close, but the Cattes were only
able to score six points in the

first fifteen minutes of the
second half, allowing Wingate
to build their fifteen point

“margin of victory.

“I think the girls realize how
poorly they played,” said Rob-
erts, ‘‘and we have more games
left. If the girls pull it together
we can win some of those

games.

The girls’ next two games will
be played in Johnston Gym
against Bennet and Davidson
Community College on Feb-
ruary | and 5 respectively.

e

Davidson's wrestling team has perked up after a third place finish in last week's Washington and — )

Lee tournament. The team will be moving into February with high hopes for the Southern

Conference Championship.

(Bill Purcell)

Grapplers place 3rd in W and L tourney

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer’’” °
The Davidson wrestling team
inspired by their third place
finish in the Washington and
Lee Tournament, will contest
the Furman grapplers at 7:30
p.m. Friday in Johnston Gym.
Davidson placed third out of
a field of eight in the Washing-

ton and Lee tournament which.

was won by the host team this
past weekend.

To gauge Davidson’s perfor-
mance, Math Professor L. R.
King, the wrestling coach, poin-
ted out that Catawba, who had
defeated Davidson in a dual
match, finished fifth.

Dr. King commented on the
tournament, ‘‘the best thing
was that everybody won a
match; and the next best thing
.was the team trophy. Also, The
Outstanding Wrestler award,

which is very coveted, went to
our Scott Phillips.’’ Phillips
won three bouts by fall in the
177 pound weight class.
Another lofty Davidson per-

formance in the finals was_

turned in by captain Pat Dul-
any who won the 142 pound
weight division by handing Ray
Gross of Washington and Lee
his first defeat of the year after
10 victories.

_ Freshman Scott Smith wres-
tled well and finished second.

Kevin Spangler pinned his

Washington and Lee opponent
in 27 seconds and finished
second. Svend Pederson placed
third in the heavyrear: divi-
sion.

Dr. King further exclaimed,
“It’s a happy occasion to win.
The week before in Charleston
we ended up eighth out of eight
teams. The competition was

better than at Washington and

Lee, but we could have wrestled
better. It is really gratifying to
see the people have some suc-
cess, and they really did.”
“Dr. King has-been a big
help. We've had football
coaches coach us before, but
they haven’t put as much into it
as Dr. King has. It is nice to see
that all of our work is finally
paying off,’ he added.

When asked to give his
reaction to being named the
outstanding wrestler at the
tournament, Phillips said, “It’s
the first time I’ve done that in
college. It really felt good. I
contributed a lot of it to my
teammates and the attitude
they have had. This will hope-
fully give me some confidence in

the Southern Conference tour-

nament which is in February.”

“Catcall

John Haskell

hes

Every professional sport has its

' franchises that are the envy of the rest
of the league. Football has Dallas and
Oakland, baseball has ‘Cincinnati and
the Yankees, and hockey has the
Canadiens. These teams win 80 often it

that the fans of some cities get to see
winners year round, Take New York for
example. They’ve had more champion-
ships there in the last decade than
Detroit has ever had, or ever will,
probably, And look at Philadelphia.

Now that the are winning
they've got good teams in every sport.
Los Angeles is blessed similarly. With
the Dodgers and the Rams they are
never at a loss for victories.

Now how much excitement can there
be in seeing your team win all the time?
The fans in these cities can never learn
to savor a victory. As a matter of fact
there would be absolutely no challenge
in growing up a sports fan in one of
these cities, no true tests of courage
and no tests of loyalty.

We all have heard the old adage that
\_ losing builds character. If this is true

then the people who have grown up in
places like Chicago or Atlanta or
Cleveland are very well-rounded. Char-
acter building happens’ in their cities.

In the last 15 years the teams in these
’ cities have been nothing but pitiful.

Atlanta is a classic example. Atlan-
tans have been stuck with four new
teams in recent years, and they've all
been consistently awful. It’s been said
that Atlanta teams will hit the top at
about the same time WDAV’s morning
show makes the Nielsen’s ratings. _.

Chicago has been just as dismal.

And they even have an extra baseball —

team to add to the city’s loss column.

Cleveland has truly been a big check
mark on the great loss column in the
sky. The city is not only slowly
slipping into beautiful Lake Erie, but it
also seems its sports teams haven't put
together a winning streak exceeding
two games since the 40’s when Bill
Veeck gave his right arm for the
Indians.

But it’s not really the city’s fault in
these cases. Cleveland and Atlanta
admittedly aren't ideal, but they’re not
really to blame. It’s the players that
break a team.

‘Look at the Braves. Over the years
they've been carried by people like
Mike Lum, Frank Tepedino, Pat
Jarvis, and Rowland Office. Those
don’t even sound like ballplayers’

The Yankees have people like Bucky
Dent, Reggie Jackson, and Catfish

Hunter, and you don’t need to know a
thing about baseball to know that
people with names like that are athletes
and winners.. But if you go naming
your kid Rowland, he’s never going to
make it big as‘a ballplayer - maybe an
accountant, but never a ballplayer.

Even the Braves’ good players over
the years have their fatal flaws. Phil
Niekro doesn’t even have a normal
pitch and Ralph Garr needs a fish net
and a ton of stick’em to catch a fly ball.
Garr’s a real loser - he’s been with
Atlanta and the White Sox.

The Indians have had the epitome of
the loser, though. Buddy Bell is his

name and one summer, after being.

selected to the all-star game, he
admitted he wasn't good enough and
turned down the honor.

I think that one has to look to .

football to find the real essence of
losing. I’m speaking of the NFC
Central division. The only reason any

of these teams ever finish with a.

winning record is that they. get to play
each other so frequently. Over the
years it’s been a division of quarter-
backs that run better than the running
backs, slow Slavic defensive backs, and
slow wide receivers. It is no accident
that Chicago and Detroit are former
members of this division.

One could go on forever discussing

inept players and teams. But the real-

question is - how do so-many get
congregated in these towns? There isn’t

_ sports teams.) The real explanation for

mediocrity located in cities like Atlanta
and Detroit. (Although, I suppose, one
may argue that there is a connection
between the quality of a and its

is poor management. The teams in ‘bad
sports cities have bad management,
and sometimes, like in Atlanta, one
man controls more than one team
badly. The Hawks, for instance, have -
managed to lose four of basketball’s
best stars (Maravich, Robinson, Web- ~
ster, and Thompson) with no appreci-
able compensation.

The Indians have given to the
Yankees and Red Sox an. all-star
lineup, and have recently been so. wise

as to re-hire the man who did it. The
Giants and Astros also: -have -rid..
‘themselves of loads of talent in the |
National League. And many. bad
teams, like the Detroit Lions, won't
make trades; preferring to watch their
mediocre players develop into full-
fledged clowns.

Losing is a part of sports, and places :

Diego
play a role that allows ‘for the Los -
Angeleses and the Philadelphians.
And let us not forget the devotion and _
loyalty developed in these losing cities.
It takes guts to root for the San Die;
Padres. It takes nothing to root forthe
Cincinnati Reds. It’s about time some-
ae eel ee beet Se
oni halen ena

te

really an instinctive homing device for
