(Brad Kerr)

October 26, 1979—The Davidsonian—3

Administrators defend athletic budget

Feel present expenditures are appropriate on “avery sports-minded campus”

By JOHN SIMAN
Assistant News Editor

The intensity of recent criticism of
athletic policy brings three issues to
focus: How extensive is our commit-
ment to excellence in athletics? Why do
we have such a commitment? Why
should we maintain it?

Davidson competes at the NCAA
Division I level in all sports except for
football and women’s sports, according
to Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill.
Thus, a college of 1300 students is often
pitted against large universities like
North Carolina State, Notre Dame, and
Duke. Vice-President of Academic Aff-
airs Price Zimmermann said, ‘‘I don’t
know of another school of our type that’s
trying to do what we’re doing.”

The Board of Trustees has reaffirmed
its goals of moving the basketball team
toward a national top 20 ranking and
keeping to football team competitive in
Division 1-AA. ‘For our size it’s an
ambitious program,’ Cartmill said. Rel-
igion Professor David Kaylor calls it
“‘impossible.”’

The athletic budget is expensive: net
1978-79 expenditures totalled $803,884.
At the University of the South, a
Division III school with about 1000
undergraduates, the 1979-80 athletic
budget totals $368,730, according to
Sewanee Athletic Director Walter Bry-
ant. Data from an SGA Budget Commit-
tee Study also shows that Davidson
spends significantly more on sports
than comparable—and often larger —
schools.

To supplement financing of the athlet-
ic program, the Trustees in 1973
increased the Wildcat Club’s role in
fund-raising. According to Executive
Director Sandy Carnegie, the Wildcat
Club primarily raises money for football
scholarships. In 1978-79 $107,518 of
Wildcat club funds were budgeted for
football, and an additional $47,340 were
distributed throughout the athletics
program, the greatest part going to
basketball, Carnegie said.

Bryant said that Wildcat Club contri-
butions are the reason the University of
the South does not play Davidson. He
explained that at Sewanee all alumni
contributions are given to the University
itself, which then allocates money to
athletics as it sees fit. According to
Carnegie, Davidson’s Wildcat Club con-
tributions are administered through the
Comptroller’s office but are used exclu-
sively for sports. “Our philosophy is
completely different from yours,” Bry-
ant says.

Cartmill offered justification of David-
son’s ambitious program. In a “‘sports-
conscious’’ region dominated by athletic
powers like Carolina and Wake Forest,
‘‘gung-ho”’ fans expect Davidson ‘to
field competitive’ teams, Cartmill expla-
ined. He referred to Davidson's tradition
of successfully competing against first
rate opponents. Kaylor, however, argues
against big-time college sports on princ-
iple. He described highly organized and
subsidized college sports as ‘‘profession-
al’ and argued that ‘‘professional athlet-
ics does not have a place in a college.”’
Kaylor emphasized the need to encour-
age carry-over and lifetime sports prog-
rams for all students.

College President Samuel Spencer
cited the fact that we have “avery
sports-minded campus”’ as a reason for
Davidson's extensive investment in
athletics. Director of Intramurals Ster-
ling Martin simply said, ‘We are a jock

student body.’ 432 students were invol- |

ved in intercollegiate athletics in 1978-79
according to Martin. Also, intramurals
provided athletic opportunities for over
78 percent of the student body last year,
Martin said.

Zimmermann also feels athletics are
import in attracting “‘the interest and
loyalty of alumni” and ultimately in
“recruiting money.”

“The argument that it (the athletic
program) keeps the alumni supportive of
the institution is true,” Kaylor said.
However, Kaylor feels the program
attracts alumni support because the
Administration has relied on athletics to

publicize the school to alumni. In so
doing, Kaylor said the ‘Administration
has ‘‘cheapened the school and alumni.”

He argued that the alumni are not a
‘‘rah-rah group’’ who give primarily
because of the athletic program. Kaylor
said that if alumni were given a “full
picture”’ of the cost and disadvantages of
the program, they might be less suppor-
tive of it.

Both Zimmermann and Cartmill agre-
ed that change in the program, especi-
ally in football, would be difficult.
Cartmill stated, ‘There is a great fallacy
that we’d save money going Division III
(in football).’’ Zimmerman said con-
stant expenses such as equipment and
coaching staff would prevent savings
anticipated by playing at a less competi-
tive level. Zimmermann and Cartmill
also predicted that a move to Division
III would cause a loss of Wildcat Club,
thereby offsetting any advantages of
offering less football scholarship money.

Kaylor disagreed that Wildcat Club
support would ‘‘dry up”’ if the football
program were moved to Division III and
cited the possibility of more alumni
contributions going to basketball in
such a case. Also, Kaylor contested
Zimmermann’s and Cartmill’s view that
a Division HI football_program would
allow the College to save money.
“Schools are doing it all over,”’ Kaylor
said.

Davidson spent $94,555.49 on football
in 1978-79, excluding staff compensation
and scholarships. The University of the
South has about $48,000 budgeted for
footballin 1979-80, according to Bryant.

A major problem in athletics is the
difficulty of finding competition, accor-
ding to Cartmill and Zimmermann. In
the case of football Cartmill says that a
move to Division II is unfeasible,
because ‘‘there’s no way we could find
competition.” Zimmermann and Cart-
mill said travel expenses would be high if
we played in Division III because many
opponents would be ‘‘very distant.” “If
we were in New England we could play
schools like Amherst, Williams, Wes-

leyan, and Bowdoin,’’ Zimmermann
said, but there are not many small liberal
arts colleges near Davidson.

Kaylor noted that the football sche-
dule already includes Division III teams
Southwestern, Hampden-Sydney, Ran-
dolph-Macon, and Washington and Lee.
He added that schools like Centre. in
Kentucky and the University of the
South in Tennessee are not more distant
than present opponents like Lehigh and
Bucknell in Pennsylvania.

Zimmermann said that the ‘“‘current
athletic program is operating in accor-
dance with the specifications of the
Trustees. ‘‘In essence, no significant
changes can be made without Trustee
initiative. ‘We cannot change our job as
long as we work for the Trustees and
Administration,’’ Cartmill said.

Kaylor said he is “‘sympathetic’’ with
the Athletic Department, for he feels
that “‘The Trustees have given them an
impossible task.’’ “If would be a miracle
if they succeed (in achieving their goals
of athletic prominence).’’ Kaylor said,
“either a miracle or a sell-out. The price
of success is more than what the
institution is willing to pay.”’

Cartmill complained about criticism
directed at the athletic program. “We
are given a job to do,” he said, but
“Everybody and his brother is pecking
away at us. People should go to the
Trustees with their complaints.”

Cartmill also complained about the
impact of such criticism. ‘‘What’s diffi-
cult is that our players hear this
everyday of the week. It’s difficult not
only for playing morale and ‘coaching
morale—but how about recruiting? It’s
become a morale issue in the depart-
ment.”’

noted that an evaluation
of Davidson's athletic program will be
conducted by an independent team
during winter term. The team's recom-
mendation will in no way be binding,
but, according to College President
Samuel Spencer, will be ‘‘carefully
considered’’ by the Administration.
