6—The Davidsonian—September 28, 1979.

| Sports Scripts

Field Hockey

The Davidson women on the field hockey team posted a 4-0
victory over Winthrop Tuesday for the first home game of the year.
Lisa Ballantyne led the attack with two goals followed by Golly
Craig and Carol Heppner with one goal each.

The team left the first half with a 1-0 lead and tasted Davidson's
first-ever win over Winthrop. The final half proved the result‘as the
defense drove the ball forward, and the attack rushed in on the goal
to bring the final score to a 4-0 shut-out.

The Wildcats met Clemson today (Thursday). The team
travels to Appalachia and Pfeiffer Saturday. Monday, the Wildcats
play ‘Catawba in an away game. Ee HOCKETT

Soccer

Davidson's soccer team exploded for seven second-half goals in
their 7-0 victory against Presbyterian College last Thursday.C.K.
Nichols, the only starter to score, opened the barrage with a shot
that skimmed in off the post. Hall Barnett then scored twice in the
short space of three minutes. Then, with all the starters removed,
the substitutes had a field day. Tom Schember, Mike Lockwood,
and Peter Hairston all scored. With the final ten seconds ticking
off, Schember scored again for Davidson’s seventh goal.

Saturday, Davidson traveled to St. Andrews, and never seemed
to get on track in the 2—0 loss. The Wildcats were unabie to ‘finish’
and came up scoreless in a game which saw players collapsing in
the heat and humidity.

Monday, Davidsom took on a tough East Carolina team in a
constant drizzle making the ball slick and hard to control. Losing
2—1, the Cats advanced and in the final thirty minutes played with
an intensity and flair that had E.C.U. on the run. Bill Whal scored
the Davidson tally, a header on C.K. Nichol’s corner kick.

North Carolina State brought their powerful ranked team to
Davidson Wednesday, and again Davidson played in a constant
drizzle. The 5—1 score is no indication of the degree of good play
displayed by the overpowered Wildcats. Again the team came on
with a maturity that should carry the soccer team into future
victories. C.K. Nichols scored Davidson’s goal.

This week Davidson plays Western Carolina Saturday and
Washington and Lee Wednesday. Both are home games.

—TED JONES

The men’s cross country team easily defeated both UNC-Char-

lotte and Wingate College on a rain-soaked UNCC course
Saturday, boosting its dual meet record to 3-1.

Senior Captain George Strobel led the Davidson harriers, who
boasted five of the seven top finishers, for the second week in a row.
Jeff Morrow, Danny Armistead, and Bart Landess finished close
behind Strobel and hard-working senior Vasili Carperos took the
fifth team spot.

. “Things are definitely looking good,’’ says Coach Norman Koller

of the team’s efforts so far. Stiff competition faces the Wildcats
this weekend, however, as they travel to Lynchburg for a meet
against Lynchburg College and Eastern Mennonite.

Both schools annually field strong teams, and Eastern
‘Mennonite is considered one of the top Division III schools in the
country. —BUCK BRADBERRY

Women’s Cross Country

The women’s cross country team travels to Lynchburg College
this Saturday to square off in their first dual meet of the season.
Coach Sally Bondurant’s harriers are coming of what she said was
a surprising showing in the Stone Mountain Road Race where they
beat Georgia State but finished second to Berry College.

, The team approaches Lynchburg nursing some injuries and
illnesses. To prevent further injuries but maintain conditioning,
they have been alternating easy and hard training days. Bondurant
has an optimistic outlook, though, and said,“Our desire and

motivation le good despite the sstback’s we've suffered due to:
injuries.”

A, oe tae Jee send baton Cohub G S% «dp nook

we and Georgia State is set for October 13th, and

v.

Davidson's home course.

uncorifirmed at press time,) Another meet

pe, cae the North Cerolina AIWA state meet on
eee —TOM PAFFORD

“The Goodbye Girl’
is a joyous comedy —
just what the doctor ordered.
Neil Simon makes feeling good legal...”

GFNE SHAiIT. NBC TV

“ONE OF THE BEST PICTURES OF THE YEAR’

TIME MAGAZINE

RICHARD DREYFUSS - MARSHA MASON ©
and introducing QUINN CUMMINGS as Lucy

FA. GUIDANCE SUGGESTED bee

an ylomenparhonn $08 compen

Friday, Sept. 28 “Love Auditorium 8:15 & 10:30 $1.50 or Season Pass’

a\\?

New V Wi ildcat Checking eine’
Davidson students 3 ways.

Piedmont Bank & Trust Co. has
developed a new Wildcat Checking
plan just for Davidson students.
Here’s what it gives you: activities.

1. Simplified.checking. Youcan Only Piedmont Bank offers you all
write up to 10 checks a month for three of these benefits. Walk
only $2 a month. There’s.no min- . across Main Street today and open
imum balance, and additional your own Wildcat Checking

checks are only 20¢.When you _— account. See what we mean when
take asummer vacation, there’sno we say “We Care.” 7
charge at all if you don’t use your

3. Convenient statements. Each
month you'll get detailed state-
ments of your checking account

