THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Tabled

Wihianctbee allie incmecttionchanged-with reviewing
Davidson's self-scheduled exam system released its
report fast Friday, the future of the healthy 8-year old
system seem d assured. ne one the

ba wae s eit F-reccomendations, each of

wih lh aled at reaffirming the present system or .

it. <

‘ Si

this report was perhaps t simple, too clear-cut,

Re inen ng nen its release, eleven of

pl ie th faculty members had signed a counter-pro-

icitly challen ging the subcommittee’s most ba-

sic findings. And this, in turn, sparked a flery reaction
from students.

If anything in the ensuing discussion could have been
misunderstood, it has been misunderstood. If anything
could have been misconstrued, it has been misconstrued.
If anything could have been distorted, it has been
distorted. eo%

Because of a few cynical and outspoken professors,
many students have been led to believe the faculty is
seriously considering -abondoning self-scheduled exams
because of suspected cheating. _

Because of a few student biunderers, many professors
have decided students are short-sighted and incapable of
helping to make good long-term decisions for the benefit
of the college, decisions which might not necessarily
immediately benefit the students themselves.

At least one faculty member has become very defensive
about student comments and complains of being» “be
‘seiged.”

Knowing this, it was wise for the faculty to table both
the subcommittee recommendations and the minority
motion until their March 13 meeting. Given this much
time, any professor who’s sincerely interested in finding

‘ out how students feel about self-scheduled exams will
have ample opportunity to do so and any student who’s
sincerely interested in telling professors how he feels will
have that chance.

Obviously the decision the faculty makes in March will
be much sounder because of this.

Cheating

It is curious to hear professors adamantly state that

self-scheduled exams are not tied to the honor code, and
then, almost in the same breath, state that they refuse to
give self-scheduled exams because they believe students
will cheat. Many of the professors who say they are
unhappy with the present examination system often
respond, when asked to cite the reasons for their
displeasure, with answers tied more closely to the honor
code than to self-scheduled exams.
' The fact is, that for many students and professors now
at Davidson, the honor code has become so intertwined
with self-scheduled exams that to chop one down would
surely scar the other, and this attitude isn’t due to student
ignorance, but to statements made by the faculty itself.

Rarely does the subject of the honor code come up,
when someone doesn’t immediately mention self-sched-
uled exams. And when self-scheduled exams come up in
general conversation, there is little to discuss but the
honor code.

To argue that the honor code cannot be equated with
self-scheduled exams simply because the honor code in
theory is unrelated, or because the honor code of the past
is unrelated, or because the honor codes found at other
colleges and universities is unrelated is to deny present
reality at Davidson, where the honor code in practice has
neghene all but fused with the self-scheduled exam
system.

The faculty will do more to undermine the honor code

by passing the minority “dual system” motion than it
might at first imagine.

The Campus Forum

Not so Different

To the Editor:

It is fashionable among many
Davidson students toe talk a-
bout Davidson and the real
world as if they were two very
separate entities.

Of course, it is true that aca-
demic institutions have a some-
what different air about them
than other institutions. But
why some students get perni-
cious delight from drawing this
distinction and giving Davidson
the bad end of the comparison is
not clear to me at all.

Many times the complaint is
heard that the daily routine at
Davidson gets dull after a
while, which I think all routines
do eventually. I have two
comments to make about dull
routines: first, be thankful that
you are dissatisfied, that your
mind wants fresh impulses, that
you are still alive; second, get
those fresh impulses and take
advantage of your dissatisfac-
tion, for it seems to me that
people tend to be most creative
and productive when they are
disturbed in some way.

A corollary to the problem ot
routines is that of an inadequate
social life. The Davidson social
scene is somewhat less than
perfect. But how many people
who work for a living are totally
satisfied with their social life? |
submit that it is a very small
number.

Moreover, I think it is each
person’s responsibility to try to
improve his or her own social
life. But I would urge. folks to
keep in mind that it is not so
important to be where the

cyexcitement i is, as to be excited.

” Try enthusiasm—it can be con-
tagious.

But what about dullness and
dissatisfaction later in life?
Practically everyone feels the
need to escape or be released
from the tedium of everyday
existence. This release can be
accomplished by various means
such ‘as entertainment, sex.
alcohol, travel, or daydreaming.

. None of snows means of escape,

however, furnish any stimulus
of a profund and lasting nature.

Nothing refreshes the mind
so much as tackling a problem
quite different from the ones
that have been occupying one’s
attention. In short, the process
of learning and understanding
is something that is basically
refreshing and enjoyable.

But in order to enrich oneself
through learning, a great deal of
effort and discipline is often re-
quired. A person with a liberal
arts education, such as David-
son tries to provide, is in a
uniquely advantageous position
to have the necessary skills and
inclination to release himself
from his day to day routine in
an ultimately satisfying way.

Thus Davidson can help a
person to expand his or her own
world, whether that person
chooses to consider it to be real

OF BOS. Larry Morton '79

Opportunity Missed
Tothe Editor: —

During the past three years I
have heard a steadily incresing
number of complaints from
frustrated, disappointed stu-
dents over enrollment pro-
blems, registration, and drop-
add procedures.

In the words of Dr.. Klein,
committee chairman, “‘we want
to. solve the problem, but we
have to know what the problem
is.”

“We are not bound to the
current registration procedures,
if there is a better way we can
change,” said Dr. Burts. The
committee wants to help up and
you know as well as I do that
something has tobedone. _

Do we want to raise the
ceilings on oversubscribed cour-
ses and sacrifice the educational
advantages of small class size?

Is there cause to exert pressure

on the administration to re-allo-
cate the budget so that more
professors can be hired? Are
students who are dissatisfied
with their schedules able to

work their problems out during :

the drop-add ‘period? Do we

want afternoon classes, night
classes, or classes during the
10:00 hour? Is it fair for
students who don’t need their
good numbers to use them to
obtain courses for a friend with
a bad number?

These are only a few of the
questions that need to be ad-
dressed. Either you need to
channel your complaints in the
right direction or stop com-
plaining. Peggy Noel '79

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. All
letters must be signed. Letters
may be edited for space (over
200 words) and clarity.

Edaor

«
Pam Camerra, Executive Editor
-. Martn Hunter, Business Manager
Deane Odom. Managing Editor

Dennis McLawhorn, Senor News Editor
Ba Peeples, Senior Features Editor
Barry Sachtjen, Senior Sports Editor

George hie Gaugh, Senior Opinion Editor

Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Carole Loptson, News Ealfor
Suzanne Newberry, Features Editor
Bert Mobley. Sports Eaitor
‘Sheri Gravett, Opinion Editor

Margaret .lackson, News Graphics Editor
Margaret Hunter. Features Graphics Editor
Ralph Lasley, Sports Graphics Editor
Ann Sneetier, Opmion Graphics Editor

Lucy Philips. Advertising Manager
Karen Long. Circulation Manager

.
Amanda Hall, Production Manager
Ann Garner, Research Director
David Cadenhead, Art Editor
James Gelly. Art Editor
Gregg Strader. Photography Director

.
Mark Hess, Assi, Executive Eottor
Mark Barrett. Asst. News Editor

Jean Soracco. Asst. Features Editor
Rob Gilson, Assi. Sports Eator

°
Howard Browne. Asst. News Graphics Editor
Lynn McClintock Assi. Features Graptucs Editor
Tandy Giltend. Asst. Sports Graptucs Editor
Karen Sanciin. Asst, Opimon Graphics Editor

.
Picky Watson. Asst. Circulation Manager

.
Oonya Boyiston, Asst, Production Manager
Aida Doss. Asst. Production Manager
Don Caldwell, Asst. Research Dwector
Phi Howerton. Asst Photography Dwector
B® Pinced, Asst. Photography Owector
Gia Rartain, Asst. Art Eoitor

Ma:shall Waddell, Production Associate
Richard Neil. Production Associate

