‘THE DAVIDSONIAN
Pu Wa eee mx

Placement Problems
Freshmen are more or less settled in andit is time to
concentrate on getting the seniors out. Traditionally,
about 70 percent of Davidson graduates go right on to
. graduate school. Does this number reflect a love of

~ academics or is it simply ansindication that many
students just don’t know what they want to-do? More.

importantly, would a vigorous placement program

increase their chances of finding a satisfying job and
thereby decrease the number of students who trip

blithely (but uncertainly) off to graduate school?
Granted, there are some Davidson students who know

what they want to do after college. And a large percentage

of people here have their minds set on legal or medical
careers that require advanced degrees before shia lies the

job market.

But there are many student who have trouble mlakinic a

major, much less choosing a career path. It is not that
these students are lazy; on the contrary they may feel that
they ‘have so many interests and abilities that it is a
shame to specify and narrow down. This depth seems
consistent with the liberal arts philosophy. Students
should have four years to expand and explore.

These same liberal arts students require a liberal
placement program. The reality of today’s job market
situation means that a liberal arts college must have an

aggressive placement program; one that offers graduates ©

more options than graduate schools and a few large

corporations.

Davidson has no placement office per se; we have the
Office of Experiential Programs and Life /Work Planning.
The concept is one that fits in well with the liberal arts
philosophy; ‘students are encouraged to do lots of

. “personal homework” and soul searching and then to take _

their identified skills and interests and fashion an ideal
career plan. Last year 90 students “creatively muddled”
through the Centuring Venturing Workshops and more
than a hundred fashioned internships or externships.

The Campus Forum

Parents’ Association
To the Editor:

I know I speak for at least
several other students as well
when I say that I find the recent
Parents Association Newsletter
utterly offensive. The two-page
letter begins: ““The 1979-80 aca-
demic year is well under way at
Davidson and our sons and dau-
ghters are settling down to do
the things that make their
college all that it is.”

Deducting pleas for money
and the usual ‘‘politesse,’’ two-
thirds or more of the letter is
devoted to football--‘‘the big
news at Davidson this year.”
Mom and Dad are told about
Davidson’s ‘‘vanquished oppo-
nents” and the Wildcat’s only
Joss toa ‘‘powerful Bucknell.”
(Only a ‘‘powerful’’ Bucknell
could do that.( The letter goes

and nature of the re education
their children receive? I should
think it uncontroversial that
many parents would find such a
supposition insulting. Similar-
ly, are the trustees, who make
policy decisions about big-time
athletics, more concerned with a
good Saturday afternoon game
at all costs rather than with the
well-being of the student? Are
the trustees willing to continue
to pump big money into athle-
tics at the expense of the
student-faculty ratio, _ faculty
compensation, etc.? If this is
the case, then I suggest some-
one act soon to better correlate
power and intelligence in our
policy makers. In the mean-
time, we should perhaps ask
ourselves what the true goals of
the Parents Association really
are. ;

Harold Anthony Lloyd ’81

collegiate athletics. This means
that only 8.39% of the total
budget is spent on activities
participated in by more than
25“0 of the student body.
Misallocation of Funds? Per-
haps. :

Another interesting figure is
the fact that the total dollar
amount spent on athletics
dropped over $65,000 from 1978
to 79, In a time of inflation well
in excess of 10%, I think this is
quite an accomplishment. Can
any other department claim to
have spent over 8% less in 1979
than in 1978? Excessive expen-
ditures? Perhaps.

Davidson strives to attract a
diverse student body and in so
doing the college is bound to
bring in some people who desire
more than an academic educa-
tion. Successes and failures in
the classroom are vitally impor-

Most significantly, an estirnated 750 students set up on to recount how many amaz- Athletics tant in the educational pro-
personal counselling sessions with the Director of Life ing yards per carry are made as pa r aa so too pei PACT ot tot
Work Planning. This is over half the student body, and welll dice our team runs af’ the Editor: penis aa sr aches
certainly this number reflects th ncern and “wing-T offense.’’ Once Again the Athletic bud- Soa ;

¥ ase sad tise Soenion After this ‘“‘crucial’’ account get has come under fire from the Without ‘the opportunity to
that students feel when thinking about possible careers. ; ; Ses compete on one_or more of
of football at Davidson, the College community. Being in gga :

A basic probiein of Life/Work Planning is getting — \.::6: tacks on seven lines about ._the minority of the student-ath- / D@vidson’s intercollegiate ath-

students to'go to the office and start searching before
Spring Term senior year. Ideally, students would go to
Centuring-Venturing and set up some experiential
learning experience during their early years at Davidson.
But, as the numbers show, this has not been the case.
Students need to explore earlier.

Davidson needs two offices; one of Experiential
Learning that encourages students to explore both

themselves and the working world and another office of
_ placement for seniors who have a vague idea of what they

want to do, but just don’t know where to start looking.

The two offices should not have separate philosophies
or facilities. But two distinct staffs are needed to handie |
the work involved. This weekend, for example, the
Parent’s Council will initiate a pilot project that

is allusion grossly insulting to ments generate little rae -

encourages participation by parents in the Experiential many students and faculty profit, byt neither A aE Mark Bama, News ir,

_ Leaming/Life Work Planning program. Parents will be members who would like to soon Suton Poonoos ts?”

given a chance to sponsor a student inter or extern ini fasten Davidson’s value on Community would call the mon- a dinicsicsereiteceaniah

their line of work. ~~ preparer om $7 Spent on these pursuite Jost. Barry Sachtjen, Sonor Sports Ecttor
_ per-carry,” scary in at ses”’ on Athletics? Per- ‘

This sort of utilization of resources should be applied —— i" as hee CST Per-, | sterguet Jeckaon, Opinian Graphics Edter

to alumni too. It is absurd to expect the current. couple ways Jenia Larus, Sports Graphics Editor
is uncomforting to think that an As was cited in the 12 \e

Experiential Learning staff to handle this sort of program ambiance exists within David- October, 1979 Davidsonian, the John McDowell, Advenising Meneger

in addition to their present activities. They now have only _ son which could legitimatize the Athletic Department budget Karen Long, Circulstion Manager

two full-time staff members. ‘ "writing of such a letter. Do constituted 8.39°% of the total | “*zs Weiss Poduction Coorinasor

Only when the college helps seniors get out aged

can we hope to have a sctiool, and a society, that es ee from wi So
operates Aoaessncigatd Placement must be’ given higher in the athletic polls, Sora ow _ are roughly 1300 stud a aJohn Sian, Asst. News Editor
portions of the letter imply, _ rolled at Davidson, and approx- Rtg aes pony ge

—Merideth Durden

academics:-a notice that the.

$1,000,000 renovation of the
Chemistry building’ was com-
plete. But, the letter seems to
say, who cares about that
anyway? ‘‘Football is»big news
at Davidson this ‘season.”’
Clearly, the letter implies (if one
takes the traditional approach

- of. correlating the extent of

treatment of issues within a
text directly to their relative
importance) that two-thirds of
“all that Davidson. is” is foot-
ball and big money athletic

Yet, not only is such an

many parents care more about

than they do about the quality

lete, we felt that a word in favor
of the Athletic Department was
in order.

The Coalition for Better Edu-
cation, they of the colorful
flyers, has stated that the
Athletic Department lost over
$900,000 last year. I don’t wish
to question the accuracy of their
figures, but the designation of

the expenditures as a ‘loss’ just —

because no profit is gener-
ated by this expenditure, does
not-make it a loss. Has the
Coalition never heard of psychic

‘income? The Chemistry, Reli-

gion or Philosophy Depart-

people within the Davidson

college budget in 1979, down

imately 350 participate in inter-

letic teams, I fear the student
body would become very homo-
geneous. There is nothing
wrong with an emphasis on
academics, but we, personally,
feel that intercollegiate athletics
serve to enrich the Davidson
liberal arts atmosphere.

: Steve Risley '81

Ed Imbrogno '81

