Ge RRR pre
So VGL OH Raton

emphasizes the value of a liberal arts education.
But there's a problem here: a liberal arts education is

por ed to make you think, but in Dr. Nelson's mo
ys te AE : ER es gue ry a * . st
notehiene class, “Macroecomonics,” the key to a good grade is .

not thinking but regurgitating. Dat’s right! On every review
better be able to pitch your stomach so well that all the big
pieces of information splatter right down on the page. And if
you do start thinking about macroeconomics you may ask,

Why, if all of the macroeconomists know so much, are we in
such a hell of an econémic mess?” Oh well, you ought to take
a class from Dr. Nelson sometime in your long and illustrious
Davidson career if only for the reason that where else on
campus will you find a female with the independence and
intelligence not to wear pants like the fellers!

E Patterson

Professor's Statement: Economics 101 - Introduction to
Political Economy

| teach one section of 101 per term (by the way, a book you
ought to read before you graduate is Cows, Pigs, and Witches
by Marvin Harris), for | feel compelled to educate the entire
proletariat. (How about the Paper Economy - it’s important
reading.) Eco 101 is thus a course covering the basic economic
concepts: demand-supply theory, elasticity of demand and
supply, firm behavior in various markets, growing up Red on
a small farm in the Texas boonies, introduction to Keynesian
theory, and Marx is OK, really, even in Presbyterianland.

(Two excellent journals worth your while are New Left
Review and Dissent magazine.) Basically, Eco 101 is divided
into two parts: firstly, an examination of microeconomics and,
secondly, trivia. For instance this redneck guy from Alabama |
knew in the army who acted really stupid and lazy so he could
be discharged and he really was and the rest of us were really
amazed so now he’s one of my minor heroes, understand?
(Above all else, read Veblen.)

Note on grading:

| give two major reviews during the term, the second of
which is not comprehensive. Neither affects the student’s

rade.

Quote: “I don’t give a damn at this stage of my career.”

Student comments:

Though Dr. P. rarely gives A’s, there is almost no work
necessary to pass his courses. Those who sign up for him
during the 1979-80 school year will find his no A’s/slack load
reputation to. be especially apt, for he is retiring at the end of
this spring term.

Ratliff

Country Boy Charlie Ratliff takes great pride in his liberal
leanings and political connections. When Jimmy Carter called
him in December 1976 seeking advice for filling cabinet
positions, Charlie recommended several winners: Bert Lance
for OMB, Andy Young for HEW, and Idi Amin for UN
ambassador.

Ratliff is the only member of the ‘faculty whose haircut
favors Conway Twitty and whose sport coat-backs are caked
with psychodelic chalk dust. .

God Almighty blessed Charlie R. with large nostrils an
small fingers. Last year in class, he successfully dislodged an
eraser from his nose. He has a distinct fetish for blackboards
and anything associated with them. : se

Charlie’s hobby is dealing in antique automobiles. He sold
Cora Nelson a sturdy Corvair and is currently trying to unload
his Nash-Rambler on someone.

His good-natured personality comes through in that he is
the only department head who teaches introductory courses.
He is. also the only chairman capable of teaching such
courses. In fact, he cannot teach anything else.

Education
Hight

In his position as the college’s head shrink, Dr. Hight is the
only Davidson professor to lose the GRE's for the entire senior
class and his eyeglasses all in the same day. One need not
have the wisdom of Dr. MacCormac nor the great powers of

nai eee Lanier sells

a scanner mane a

aoe | ee Se RO PRN Oren Ee

observation of Professor Minter to know that Hight: suffers
from a hide-and-seek fetish. Bia

English
Abbott ey |

Perhaps the worst dressed faculty member on three legs.

Bliss

Frank Bliss is the only Davidson professor Known to have -

picked his belly-button with a rusty pocket-knife in front of a
class of 30 people. The grainy-faced old slob, who has been on
the faculty as long as most people can remember and longer
than most would want to, was recently transferred to the
Center for Academic Misfits. There he is expected to spend
most of the day locked in his office.

Asked to comment on Bliss’s transfer, College President
Samuel Spencer would only say, “We had to do something.

The man’s English lectures were getting so intolerable that °

English majors interested in his area were threatening to
transfer. By hook or crook, Bliss managed to get tenure so
there was no way | could get Zimmie to fire him. Obviously, the
best solution was to ship him over to the Center so that he
could nurse the disruptive brats who hang out there.”

Cole

With an accent that sounds more like Jimmy Stewart than
Jimmy Stewart himself, Davidson English Department
Chairman Richard (ploddin’ Dick) Cole is reputed to have
laughed maybe once. Most connected with the English
Department can’t remember when, though perhaps it was

when he first compared Bill Barnes to Lord Byron (or was it |

when Bill Barnes first compared himself to Lord Byron?) Q
Otherwise, Cole just smiles a lot. If he likes your comment
in a class discussion, he'll say “That's an interesting point.”
His teaching method contrasted with office help once
prompted one Davidson English major to opine that just Dick’s
body goes to teach class; his brain stays in his office
reads Boswell. s

Holland

J. Gill ‘Great Stuff’ Holland was a wrestler SAE at
Washington and Lee, and subsequently views classes as
athletic contests, during which he tries to pin the
unsuspecting student under masses of obscurantism. One of
our more erudite professors (he sneaks caveral lannuanes very _
badly), he reads the MLA Handbook the same way the
Ayatollah reads his Koran, and Holland’s grading system is
not unlike Iranian Revolutionary Justice. One suspects there
are booby traps in his office, which would be a good place for
DCF to have a work day. The prospective student should be
advised that he will have to turn in 14 drafts of a paper whose

Caught in the act: Cindy Grant inaugurates Davie
sex for grades scandal. — teal

her 3 PS A ry
Sr eeparrsnee eau ©

pate js
% aig 7 :
ty sa “s .
Fs 3
rr * Dont fe 7 v
Tae f ¢ i >
ty «
F , a SR F
° R ; 138 ‘ wee
{ ‘ “ > 3 ‘
& ‘ . P
p Ee } 3 nn aS SSS aSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSessessssesssssssessessssesssssiesestnsiasesssesseiisnsssinensensineeiiit
TT
> 4 i oh ON i
