while a failure of

_ 8—The Davidsonian— December 7,1979

rts Scripts
Cross Country

tiiliedi'y asais Gike Wrialin's. Gigs cube). teabin concluded
sucessful seasons with an awards banquet Thursday, November:
5. Each team’s hard work materialized into a: satisfying season.

“The women's team;-ending:one of its best seasons ever,

Vpeeentid two awatds: one for the best freshman.runner, and one

for the most valuable runner’ on the team. ‘The best freshman

‘runner award went to Merris: Hollingsworth. Hollingsworth

showed continuous improvement: ‘throughout the year and was a
vital contributor to: the team, never placing lower than fifth among
the Davidson
The most valuable runner award was received by Susan
Davidson, probably one of the best female athletes to attend
Davidson, After the Southern Conference Tournament. she was an
‘Division IF district, regional, and national races.
in in Division III, so’she was meeting stiff

d in the district and sixteenth in the regionals
and placement mechanism prevented
her assignment of a place in the nationals. Her achievements were
unprecedented in Davidson women's cross country history, and
she was certainly a deserving recipient of the honor.

The men's ‘cross country team presented three awards; the best
freshman runner, the most valuable runner and the Fred Borch
Award. The best freshman runner award was given to Jack Smith,
a runner who finished in Davidson’s top five every race and shows a
lot of promise for future contribution and leadership of the team.
Jeff Morrow, the top:Davidson finisher in the Southern Conference

“meet, received the Most Valuable Runner award. His continued

improvement throughout the season aided the men in their.

achievement of a satisfying 7-5 record. IRR -
The Fred Borch. Award, ‘presented. annually for maximization

of one’s potential and-total contribution to the.team, was awarded

to senior captain George Strobel. This year ended four .years of

‘hard wotlk for Strobel srhioee contributions to the team stretched far.

beyond his running ability. :.
Aithinigh the feativitias were « célétwration.tor the hard work the

--teams had done, they. were-darkened somewhat by. the fact that. -
Coach Norman Koller will hot be retiirning for another year. swith .

the men's squad. .

_- A runner summed up tha feeling of the aquiedl by Sayiae “this |
man’s persistence has lifted the Davidson ‘Cross Country squad

from the cellar to respectability. He has done a fine job and will be
sorely missed by the program. —ROB MOORE

Swimming

The Davidsonian swimmers suffered a disappointing 89-24 loss
to Vanderbilt, a talented SEC squad, last Saturday. in Nashville.
The magnitude of the loss, which opened the 1980 schedule, came
as a stiff surprise to coach pat Miller. .

“We're not t/ut bad,’’ she noted, still nurturing her pre-season
expectations of her experienced squad. Those expectations present
lofty goals for this year’s team, such: as a high finish in the
Southern.Conference meet at the season’s end.

The *‘meat of the 1980 schedule will occur after Christmas break,
however, and holiday preparations include a training trip to St.
Petersburg, Florida.

Davidson's 24 points resulted from several brightf performances
in Saturday's meet, particularly from divers Frank Bright, who
took second place, and Charu Sharma, who nabbed third. Taking
second place finishes. in individual events were Rick Williams,
breaststroke; Mark Tommerdahl, 200 meter IM; and Craig
Finger, 50 meter freestyle.

Monday sees Davidson clash with J.C. Smith, a hopefull
confidence-buulder tor the favored Wildcats. Afterwards, Miller
and her swimmers hope intense Christmas-time work will insure
and exciting and productive year for the 1980 swimmers.

—BUCK BRADBERRY

Rifle Team

With one third of the season past, the Davidson College rifle
team has amassed a 2-2 record. They defeated North Carolina A&T
and Furman but lost to The Citadel and NC State. At the Furman
First Invitational, John Parham, a co-captain with Pat Stuart,
shot exceptionally well by scoring 539 points out of a possible 600
to receive the high individual firing award.

The team, coached by Sargent Ransom Cooper, is looking
forward to the first Western Carolina Rifle Conference match on
Saturday at Sam in the basement Belk firing range: Davidson will
be one‘of seven teams involved.

_. Fire will be. resumed after Christmas. with a second ‘WCC thatch 5 ee
pag oe and. '& match with The Cental ad UT:

: TE DANNY ARMISTEAD i

SBANont Main Sweet /Post Ofc Box

Today, only

a handful of people know what

“the China Syndrome” means...
Soon you will know.

JANE
FONDA

MICHAEL

JACK neers
DOUGLAS

LEMMON
of
AS
yndhome__

Friday, December 7 8& 10:30,
= Love
$1.50 or Season Pass

$5 Season Pass on sale,
with $1 going to Cambodia relief campaign

Another outstanding job by

BARGER

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Ke 1925”
