| Eart MacCormac, as everyone better know, but then, how
can we know that we know,...oh, well, we think he is the head
of the philosophy department. At least, he thinks he is, and
that's all that’s important anyway, right?

Earl really does have something to prove. Philosophy majors
don't get into med school. (Just ask John Carlson.) Other than
that, the main purpose of his classes is to enable him to find
enough handball partners to last him through the year. Eari
“the Pearl” is, to borrow a concept from that MacCormacesque
pomposity William F. Buckley, “God and Yale at Davidson.”
But it has to be Davidson, since electrical engineers can’t
make it at northern. schools, and his matchbox car, Mayor
wife, utter arrogance, and Goodwill suits would never make it
at Oxford or Cambridge, or even East Carolina.

ce eee tt TLE EEA LEA
, “ha oe oe ee ee

Maydole

What must be considered first about Robert Maydole is his
unique combination of persuasions. Prof. Maydole capitalizes
upon the rigor of logic and the befuddiement of existentialism
to produce a remarkable blend which characterizes his
classroom style and punditry. (See especially his classic,
“Existential Crisis and how to Find the Door,” Body , Vol. 7,
no. 2. Maydole’s suggestion to “look in the corner” has been
considered by many to be the most original contribution to the
field in-recent history. Others have referred to it as a
“masterpiece of analytical reasoning.”)

In the classroom, however, Maydole’s provocative com-
ments and unusual teaching style have often, polarized his
students into two camps of opinions about him. The former
insist that he is incomprehensible, and indeed, does not
himself understand what he has just said. These are the : 4
Wittgenstinians who offer the evidence of his frequent mental 3 *
cramps and the fact that he has frequently been seen A pensive Max Polley packs down another dalted student for
wandering Chambers’ halls muttering “whereof we cannot next winter.
speak...” in support of their views. Others insist that Maydole,
more than any other member of the department, possesses a
brilliance and intuitive strength, which qualifies him as a first
rate philosopher and major intellect. Skeptics conclude,

however, that Robert Maydole is merely indulging his whim to Stell can frequently cause nausea.
intuit percepts without “concepts and charge that he has When Sei to account for himself, Stell sagely observed,
nothing substantive to say. Go to hell.

In all events, taking a course with Robt. Maydole has
become a temporary impossibility since his rapid classroom

departure on Oct:1st when the students in his symbolic logic Young

. Class rose against him chanting “Wally, Wally, Wally, Wally,
Wally, Wally...”. According to eyewitness reports, Maydole Put a petition under J.J.’s nose and hear him exclaim “I'll
was so shaken by this event that he leaped from a second story Sign, I'll sign!”

window, discovering to his dismay that he had misjudged this
world’s possibilities and the net wasn’t there. Until he is
located, Maydole’s classes have been taken over by Earl

a
MacCormac (see Earl the Pearl). Reports have placed Doctor a Physical Ze ucation

Maydole in Rome, seeking conceptual clarity at the Vatican.

Cartmill
Stell

Lance Stell prides himself on his unusual philosophical
viewpoint, which is that of sadism. This view apparently stems Has a two line entry in Who's Who in American Locker Rooms
from Stell’s favorite axiom (which by the way is absolutely
true, as are all of Stell’s statements), “Everything is shit.”
After taking one of his courses, you will certainly agree that
this statement is at least partially true. : ss

The area in which this idea is most readily observed is Physics
grading. Stell seems.to view himself as conducting a one man
war against grade inflation. Stell is one of the few Davidson
professors who frankly admit, “I enjoy failing people.”

Stell is one Davidson professor who is truly different, or at Whit
least hopes that we will think so. This fact is best illustrated by e
that most central of all personality traits, clothing. Partly
through Stell’s earnest desire to be different; and partly No relation to the Marquis de Sade

pak ash if : ,
j Magy ‘beoniusii OF h Hs.» Wey were oy SRT on ra saad 4 re selon seeping ss M Z HEA Pree ae eng Pa aay t Ng > es 2 Bates Mig Was Ream Bets +, bie: |
i ESSSS ae |

i

ad

—————
