January 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—11

(Continued from page 2)

11. A nationally ranked Division I basketball team would be
beneficial to the school’s image.

56 22 10 4 6 “ News At A Glance

12. | would favor instituting athletic scholarships for women.

25 21 16 16 21 ]
13. I would favor instituting athletic scholarships for minor sports.

Commons Design to be Changed

15 24 15 21 24 2
14. A nationally ranked Division IAA football team would
be beneficial to the school’s image. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze said the College is now
seeking a contractor to make the tray disposal units in the
31 22 14 13 18 2 proposed Commons moveable.
15. Davidson athletics are major factors in keeping ties with and Original Commons plans had called fora stationary twenty-nine
soliciting funds from alumni. foot long conveyor belt disposal unit that"would have divided the
main dining area in half. The originally planned disposal unit would
40 33 15 6 3 3 have made the Commons impractical for band dances and other
16. As an alummus, I would give less money if Basketball was large functions.

de-emphasized. Meetze said the College will decide whether or not to accept a

contractor's bid on the moveable unit February 26.

14 5 15 21 43 2
17. As an alumnus, I would give less money if Football was
de-emphasized. SGA Coffee and Cokes Planned
8 7 12 20 51 2 There will be an SGA Coffee and Cokes the first. Tuesday of every
18. Greater emphasis should be placed on soliciting funds month at 10a.m. in Chambers Gallery. Senators will be present to
from alumni to be contributed to the Athletic programs. discuss campus issues with interested students.
13 17 20 18 30 2 ie
19.1 would have come to Davidson even if it did not have Book Theft Rate Down
intercollegiate sports. eee
3 8 13 17 a6 “ Library Director Leland Park announced last Friday that there
was a marked decrease in the number of..books lost from the
collection in 1978-79 compared with the. previous. ‘year. Park’s
SG A Poll announcement. followed the completion *» the. library's annual
: inventory.
(continued from page 1) mary purpose of the question- ents, Haynes said. “This. is an Park said the missing 217 books represent the lowest number of
spend too little. Similarly, 58% naire was not to inform stud- opinion poll.” , lost books in the past ten years. we

felt too much. is spent on
basketball, while only 132 felt

otherwise. i : Faculty Selection

However, widens held that

CROWE ;

Davidson spends: too: little on (continued from. page 1) : ‘non-Christian whe: tan eon: ‘with respect «Ho
intercollegiate at derenga bec _ cd consensus of the chair-. forthe Christian sradiitiog’* eancbe ap. obein

68% to.6% margin.:"

. "fhe: Comumilttes ‘is:not_ advo-

. eating’ any. view. on. athletic Ceo <3

. policy. but’ is: tather. trying: to “Special ‘consider : Meg ee
said, is. given Saas, pace mag and...
minorities. {We make’ special effort in all: ome
vacancies: to: review any alumni,;T

' Trustees. want. ‘to maintain an alumni

eo emphasis dis -..
courage moylleauts?, Mick sivertioements Bohs
describe the College.st: ea:“church-related.” In

the psychology: gdvertigement, Kelton.
ret wrote," “Candidates. should:bé able to work
baa With respect for the Christian tradition if

The College, “Pisninerenaas eat -is “very. not subscribe to'it.” He explained, the m
GPA’siby varsity sport and _ anxious to inicréase the number of women" ee only fair thing to do. Given the =

Davidson's athletics on the faculty,” as.well as the amount of ~ fact that (the majority) of the faculty will be
budget’ to those of similar - minority representation among professors. Christian. it: just See the e
schools . ficcompanied the ques- Recruitment of minorities, however, is: aSGLt Know that on” p cal We
tionnaires,.Some students said difficult, Zimmermann said. There is a
“they ‘needed more information limited supply of minority candidates, ud
on athletics policy to complete in the case of blacks, “competition m a ; ;
the questionnaire with cer- all-black institutions.” Department chair- Another possible disadvantage Davidson

Aree ens F ¢ has is-its salary levels, which, while they
tainty» men do write letters to graduate schools o: conighre favorably ‘with, collages of s

have to get people who can work happily in
this setting.” 45% to 28%:

; Ale. Haynes pointed out, biath: guiveaaet, eek Laps 088 fall short of large’ institutions. Religion re
‘“‘You'-¢an’t have a totally | cants refuse more lucrative offers in order to Hoses a ross ob ther tad tok promotion. te

r 2 ” t tions. . By
forte reapanse. The pri- | et in black gene bo seen Q salary is “‘not much of a consideration,

s faculty member are basically. threéfold: ; Zimmermann said, Kelton. said candidates —

nae Regarding ° teaching, | “Zimmermann ae because 0

‘0 .” stressed a “‘sens¢ of extitement”” and ability” .9°V8
ean eerie neaitne: Coleenie aching =

pege 2}... important quali mots eaecticn, while - "8,

cord, is ‘essential in dat

market. Prospective fa¢ uty: a

pri: be. —— bore of ‘their

. with young g applicants th 4 usually “‘n :
much in gg way of publication ” “We're 2
» eae SORES ETE: Cole. oat

: waa a greater emphasis on :

fhe Trustees. require = 'prepondersacty a orrit
- Ghristian faculty.” However, Christian ° be
- committment’ is no longer mandatory. A
