- THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Concern Isn’t Enough

It is time for President Spencer to do something about
the atrocious level of faculty salaries besides stating that
he is “deeply concerned.”

-Dr. Spencer: is the first to admit that the continued
decline of alréady meager faculty salaries against
inflation is a s0n’s most serious problem. Yet when
we try to r mibér-what. ‘steps Dr. Spencer has taken
towards ending thé decline, or ask Dr. Spencer how he
plans to cope with it, ‘we draw almost a complete blank.

The Administration’ is pursuing the goal. of running
each area“of ‘the College as efficiently as possible. It
seems to be meeting this goal, yet holding down everyday
ts has not prevented serious drops in the value of
ity salaries and there is no reason to believe this
stiaaiy will succeed in the future.

As Robert Manning points out in his guest column on
page - five, faculty salaries here are so low as to be an
insult. The typical professor here is making only $20,731,
a father small sum these days. On the average, an
Assistant Professor makes only $166 more per year
than an auto mechanic in Mecklenburg County.

These salaries obviously are not the kind that help
recruit good new professors, or retain older ones.
Although its standing has dropped some in recent years,
Davidson’s pay scale is about the same as at most other
institutions of our size and type. Yet Davidson must also
compete with universities for new professors, as Manning
points out, and the disparity between Davidson salaries
and university salaries seems to widen every year. The
better prospective professors look elsewhere, and older
professors consider leaving Davidson and education al-
together.

Low faculty morale-is possibly the most direct effect of
Davidson’s salary problems. The almost uninterrupted
decline of faculty salaries against inflation, combined
with the Administration’s igaction, is turning the faculty
into a collection of exasperated paupers. The faculty is
understandably losing faith in the Administration and the
teaching profession, and this loss must surely desl their
teaching performance.

It would be very unfair to place the blame Kinny on Dr.
Spencer, the Board of Trustees, or the Administration in
general. Rising inflation and expected drops in the
number of high school graduates are nationwide
problems which hit Davidson, like any other college or
university, very hard. Davidson’s problems are complica-
ted, and their solutions are not always simple.

But Davidson needs to re-examine its goals and
priorities as a college. The Administration’s stand pat

policy is doomed to failure.

We must question practically everything the College is
now doing in hopes that we can find some way to pay our
faculty what it needs and deserves.

Do we really need a new Arts Center, Sports Center,
and a grandiose Commons? It seems that the quality
education that reasonable faculty salaries can provide
‘would be a much stronger and more desirable lure to
prospective students than buildings.

‘Ils it not ridiculous to plan our physical facilities to
accomodate1600 students when current faculty financial
needs are so pressing? The amount of money saved
might not be tremendous (it could have been larger had
enrollment plans been re-examined sooner), but at least it
would not be wasted.

Are our fund raising strategies what they should be?
The 1987 program is just meeting its original goals, but
these‘mnay be rendered inadequate because of inflation.

Can we afford our presen$ football and basketball
programs? Both programs have their merits, but the goals
set for them seem to be unrealistic, and may intérfere too
greatly with the prime function of this school: education.

We propose that Dr. Spencer establish a
committee. of concerned faculty, administrators, and
students to examine these.and similar questions with the
aim of finding” solutions to the faculty salary problem.

Faculty. morale would be boosted, faculty and student.

criticism would be channeled in a useful wayand
something might even ” accomplished fora Me

Barrett

$11,435

+

1966-67

Average Faculty Salary in Constant (1966) Dollars

(Source: American Association of Uni-
versity Professors)

$10,053

1976-77

1978-79

$9,680
$9,205

1979-80

Learning Is More Than Studying

Lyman Collins

In making the quantum leap
from Davidson College student
to Davidson College Union staff
member, I have encountered my
share of frustrations. I have
been introduced by faculty
members as a ‘‘stalwart sen-
ior;’’ I have had to pull Union
desk duty for tardy, but well-
meaning students; and I have
too often resorted to Snack Bar
junk food when my schedule
was too tight to allow time for
more decent fare at home.

All of these frustrations,
however, are, trivial (and even
funny), because I can exercise
some degree of control over
them. The really bad frustra-
tions, the ones that cause
ulcers, are those beyond my
control.

One of this type has really
been bothering me lately. It’ is
one of this type that has me wri-
ting for The Davidsonian again
after a two year hiatus.

My job involves assisting
students in programming co-
curricular events at the Collége
Union. Therefore I go to a great
majority of student activities.

Herein lies my frustration. I
go to a performance and always
wonder why there aren’t more
people there. I must confess a
part of this is my job, it’s my
bread and butter to look over
audience and assess the ‘‘suc.-
cess’’ of an event from a
strictly numerical angle.

Let me quickly say, though, I
don’t believe success is mea-
sured by numbers. For me suc-
cess boils down to whether or
not the audience had a good
time. Did the people (perfor-
mers and audience) leave with a
good feeling? Were they iffec-
ted by the performance? Bid it
make them think? =

The answer. to those ques-
tions for the vast majority of
events during the short =time
I’ve been on the job has been a
resounding yes. Which brings
me back to my original question
and frustration: why weren t
more people there? Why didn’t,
or couldn’t, everyone experience
those, ‘tgood” feelings?

I know everyone’s tastes are
not the same.
accept those people who don’t
go to something simply because
they don’t like it provided
they’ve already given it a
chance. But it’s those other
people who have already’ made
up their minds that frustrate
me.

It reminds me of myself when
I was small. “Eat your broc-
coli,’’ my father would say.
“But I don’t like it.” I typically
would respond. ‘‘But have you
tried it?’’ Of course, I didn’t like
everything but now I do love
broccoli.

Fundamentally a liberal arts
education should broaden an
individual’s perspective. It
should liverate his mind from
automatic prejudice. A liberal
education should encourage one
to seek out new experiences and
explore fresh possibilities.

Many people complain that
they don’t go to see an artist
because they’ve never heard of
him. Colleges should be innova-
tive and encourage the offbeat
and original. Just because a
performer has a ‘“‘name’’ does
not automatically make him a
success.

Naturally, this being David-
son, the most frequent excuse
used for not becoming a part of
an audience is too much work.
This is very understandable and
I sympathize. My mother said
to me all too often, ‘Remember,
you're there to study.’’ But
study is a pretty broad word.
And I quickly learned to adapt
it to mean also study outside of
the classroom.

One, often hears the cliche:
The majority of learning in
college doesn’t come from a
textbook. But the uncomfor-
table thing about cliches is they
are all too often true.

Probably the best advice I
got before coming to college
came from a tough-as-nails high
school English teacher. She
predicted that in college many
Opportunities fro learning would
come outside of the classroom in
the form of artists, lecturers,

I can easily -

and performers who would come
to campus.

“If you get the chance to hear
a concert or see a play or go toa
speaker, drop everything and
go. Even if you get behind,
because those opportunities will
be gone tomorrow when your
books will still be there,’’ she
said.

Amazingly these out of clans:
room activities foten feed and
enrich the in classroom endea-
vors. Experience leads to exper-
ience. It’s called serendipity.

None of this answers my
question or solves my frustra-
tion, because in the end if we
want to find the time for some
thing we will. At a place like
this so many new experiences
happen and so many oppor-
tunities present themselves that
it is impossible to absorb it all.

Just remember education is
much more than GPAs and
graduate school. Unless of
course that is all you want your
education to be.

Lyman Collins ‘79 is a former
Executive Editor of The David-

sontan,

Mark Barrett
Editor

Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Sheri Gravett, Executive Editor

Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Aida Doss, Features Editor
Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor
Van Beck, Sports Editor

Karen Sandiin, News Graphics Editor
Karen Long, ‘Circulation Manager
John McDowell, Advertising Manager
‘Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
(Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Heaese Photography Editor

Marshall Waddell, Production Associate

