T —

Founded 1914

Mutual
~ Responsib lity.

“Dr. Spencer's Convocation ae ers last Saturday
marked the first time in recent memory we've heard any

administrator volunteer a vision for Davidson's future —

educational program.. In the past, the faculty has often
discussed the need. for more.professors and higher
salaries in. general: while Dr. Spencer ‘and: other

administrators. shook over heads’ and said, “We can't.

afford it.”

As a result, we are especially pleased that: Dr.“Spencer
has this vision, though he seems to lose sight of the
fact that its fruition lies on his shoulders as well.

Davidson is 4 rather isolated institution, in a rather
isolated country, and Dr. Spencer's attempt to help future
Davidson graduates become part of the rising world
community is: laudable. Most people will agree that
Davidson's present. language programs do. not produce a
very high level of fluency. arfiong most students, and Dr.
Spencer is wise to target this area for further study. As he
pointed out, there are many possible ways to improve our
language programs, and we hope the. facuity will not
accept the Educational Policy Committee’s. proposal fara
fourth term of language as a panacea ‘before thoroughly
investigating such: options as total language immersion
for a term .or different bine hal coeeitane In present
courses themselves.

‘We also share Dr. Spengae s.desire to bolster.
Davidson's offerings in non-Western courses. We would
strongly’ ebject to creating an. area requirement here, but
agree that itis time Davidson; along with the rest of the
nation, lost its cultural chauvinism aiid began preparing
its students to deal with the non-Western world.”

Dr. Spencer is also on safe ground | when he says our
Humanities program. is well worth preserving. “Yet: we
should all be careful that Humes does not detract from
Davidson’s other educational offerings.’ As. we have sald
before, many pt ware justifiably reluctant to: teach
Humes se they f el the course directs too much of

their ‘sitention & away from their other courses. If we are to

increase the size of the Humanities program to meet

demand, it must not be at the expense of offerings in

pa its. We wilt have to ‘hire new. professors.

: re's a catch to all this—mon -Dr. Spencer

that it Is up to the faculty to decide how to ‘meet his goal
-givir re Boh scon a a more. repel

corte anny worthy, but we cannot bisa the toxuity to ar :

the money to finance:
“addition of new faculty) will be forthcoming. |
‘ Pie money wilt have eo come from either other parts. ote
_ feally expect the: scrahiirition 9 cut ¢

bring them to trultion. ee tei eos

‘said.

decisively until they have more reason to believe a
(such asthe: inevitable |

geome ‘We mere te. ;
time athletic “and: our building: pr 2 only  : aoeny BS !
pola te oo a 7a

30C . for Piss rprg mie’ are uncertain. Reps ubewe lata
of. A Ry, aa pal ORES RR ty a

- Sten "Bo .cPS

mo HTH. Neg

Pee A

“UH, [| DON’T SUPPOSE ~
ANY OF YOU IMPERIALIOT
: HEATHEN’ SPIES :
KNOWS HOW To REPAIR.
“AMERICAN-BUILT FIGHTER

‘PLANES »00 YOu?»

World View Needed

~ Jim Tholen

College President Samuel
”“ Spencer’s speech at Fall Convo-

cation provided a clear and
encouraging picture .of revital-
izing Davidson’s educational
opportunities and ‘philosophy.
The implications of his proposal
changes, however, far trans-
cend the policies themselves.
_ Essentially, the message was
a pragmatic one: Davidson
thust react to the changing role
of the United States with
respect to the rest of the world.
The way Davidson does respond
will prove fundamental to its
continuance as a leading liberal
arts college. I find hope in
President Spencer's remarks. I
wonder, “however, how the
Trustees will react to the same
stimuli.

The implications of the

speech transcend Dr. Spencer’s -
message. Can. Dav: :

immediate.

idson steer itself away from the
immediate factional goals: of a
ruling conservative body? In

tions, “Eastern” ‘humanities
“and other courses having a
i, non-Western emphasis. Addi-
: * tional support would be given to.

_ the existing JYA and other

foreign study programs; pre-
sumably these programs would
be expanded in both number

The issue lies beyond the
changes themselves, resting in-
stead with the fundamental
changes in philosophy that the
changes would répresent. The
implications of these new poli-
cies are enormous for the future
of Davidson College. Make no
mistake, Dr. Spencer’s words
cannot: be considered solely
rhetorical. The manifestations
of a changing world will reach
all of us inspite of our efforts to
insulate ourselves. We are late
in moving; we can not afford:to
hesitate any longer. Davidson’
must anticipate these future
changes.

, In the last few. years, this
school has even experienced a
shift, backwards; the liberaliza-
tion of, and, if you will, eman-

‘eipation from, the provincial

norms that had previously held
control. jhexe been: cut, short.

men and ‘women ‘from the

expensive play toys they insist
on promoting? .
There can be little comprom-

- ising in this regard. If the

changes are to be made, they
must be made soon. I find hope .
in Dr. Spencer’s words. I have
less confidence that the Trus-
tees will respond accordingly.

Jim Tholen was JYA in
England last year.

The Davidsonian ‘welcomes

letters on any subject. We

reserve the right to edit: letters
for length* and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday

night of the week of publication.

‘Mail letters to The Davidson-.
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by-the

’s office on the third
floor of the College Union.

» ‘The Davidsonian is publishea
weekly in the academic year
(except: during holidays and’
examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College.

' Mailing address: P.O. Box 218,

Davidson N.C. 28036. Tele-
phone: 892-2000; extension 148.
Subscription-rate: $8.00 per
year. Advertising rates availa-
ble on request. Second class
postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

