nainnshivell ant —ORRT _& t9cininO
ee oe

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Trustee Meetings
Hard to Cover

Dear Members of the Board of Trustees:

| have been talking with students about this week’s
Trustee meeting and I’m afraid that many students have
come to see the Board of Trustees as an uncaring and
faceless body that sets College policy without regard
for student needs or desires. Partially because of this
perception, students feel removed from College problems
and cannot understand why they should want to be part of
the solution to these problems.

But | think that Trustees sucii as yourself do
care, and | think that if students understood how
the Trustees make their decisions and why, they
would want to help the College meet its challenges
instead of apathetically shrugging their shoulders as
they often do now. | would like for you to help The
Davidsonian change the way students view the Board of
Trustees and Trustee policy.

| am asking that you allow a member of The
Davidsonian staff to sit in on your meetings and
objectively report what happens. Although Davidsonian
access to Trustee meetings certainly will not change
Student’s attitudes overnight, this is one step we can
take to make students feel more a part of the
College decision-making process and feel less hostile
or apathetic towards Trustee policy. —

The more students know about Trustee decisions,
the less anger and frustration they will feel when those
decisions do not go their way. And to look at the question
in a financial light, | think the more students
feel a part of the decision-making process now,
the more likely they will be to give money to the
school as alumni.

The Davidsonian will always report Trustee meetings
as accurately and fairly as possible, but we think
we could do a much better job if we could actually
attend the meetings instead of getting our information
second or third hand. Allowing the SGA President
to attend the meetings is certainly a step in the right
direction, but the SGA President is not in-a position
tg, objectively report Trustee actions since in some
cases he would be reporting decisions in which
he took part or strongly opposed.

Lines of communication between the student body
and the SGA aren’t always that strong or helpful anyway.
We quote from the latest copy of “Highlights” from the
SGA minutes which the SGA posts in dormitories:

“Mike Daisley spoke to the crowd about development
and the 1987 program. Explained what was meant by

Endowment funds and then proceeded to give more facts —

and figures than Dr. Nelson before a Macro final!

“Did you know that even though your tuition and costs
are as high as they are, they only pay for 58%
of the cost to run the College.

“He concluded by saying a little about the upcoming
Tele-Phonathon. More about that some other time.”

Communications. between Trustees and students
should be as direct as possible. Surely students
should be well informed about decisions that can
strongly affect their lives here. Students do pay
58% of the cost of attending Davidson and deserve
to know how their money is handled.

As we noted in a front-page article in last week’s
Davidsonian, allowing a student reporter into Trustee
meetings is standard procedure at some schools.
| hope it soon will be at Davidson as well.

Mark Barrett
editor, The Davidsonian

“\T MUST BE THE ELECTORAL EQUIVALENT OF WAR.”

The Campus Forum

Bingham Delivers

Toa the Editor:

Gene Bingham is ‘“‘concerned
about the needs and wants of
the students.’’ This is visible in
both his Statement of Purpose
as Athletic Director and his
manner of approach to stu-
dents. ’

“This concern should be ex-
pressed by an effort to provide
facilities and staff in propor-
tional quality and quantity to
meet the interest demonstrated
in a particular sport by the
students,"’ he says. The first
element must be student inter-
est, followed by an assessment
of the sport’s actual needs, and
finally by raising the money
necessary to provide facilities
and staff.

Mr. Bingham js ready and
willing to work with students,
as demonstrated by his enthu-
siasm for and encouragement of
the women’s club volleyball
team.

There has been considerable
interest for several years in the
formation of a women’s volley-
ball team. Finally, in response
to this interest, the Athletic
Department has supported the
establishment of a team on the
club sport level, and has agreed
to purchase equipment for
IMAC, P.E., and club use. This
is one of the ways in which Mr.
Bingham has responded to stu-
dent interest.

There are certain limitations
under which the Athletic Direc-
tor must work: Trustee ap-
proval, financial restraints, and
student interest. The entire

college is under the guidance of

the Trustees, so Mr. Bingham
is no different from anyone else.
Gene Bingham is ready and
willing to work in order to
provide funds to support stu-
dent interest, but we, the
student body, must first de-
monstrate that interest.

Debby Carlton’81

Bacon on Studies

Studies’serve for delight, for
ornament, and for ability. Their
chief use for delight is in
privateness and retiring; for
ornament, is in discourse; and
for ability, is in the judgment
and dispositionof business. For
expert men can execute, and

perhaps judge of particulars, on
by one; but the general coun-
sels, and the plots and marshal-
ing of affairs, come best from
those that are learned. To spend
too much time in studies is
sloth; to use them too mluch for
ornament is affectation; to

make judgment wholly by their
rules is the jumor of a scholar.
They perfect nature, and are
perfected by experience; for
natural abilities are like naturl
plants, that need pruning by
study; and studies themselves
do give forth directioms-too
much at large, except they be
bounded in by experience. Craf-
ty men contemn studies, simple
men admire them, and wise men
use them, for they teach not
their own use; but that is a
wisdom without them, and
above them, won by observa-
tion. Read not to contradict and
confute, nor to believe and take
for granted, nor to find talk and
discourse, but to weigh and
consider. Some books are to be

tasted, others to be swallowed,
and some few to be chewed and
digested; that is, some books
are to be read only in parts;
others to be read, but not
curiously; and some few to be
read wholly, and with diligence
and attention. Some books also
may be read by deputy and
extracts amade of them by
others, but that would be only
in the less important arguments
and the meaner sort of books;
else distilled books are like
common distilled waters, flashy
things.

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to, The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper's office on the third
floor of the College Union.

Laurie Soper,

Mark Barrett, Edytor

Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager

Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor

Brian McMaster, Circulation Manager

_ Margaret Jackson, Production Manager

Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Photography Editor

Glenn Kellum, Asst. News Editor
Harold Lloyd, Asst. Opinions Editor
John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Linda Hulburt, Asst. Managing Editor
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant

Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate

