Liberal Arts Can’t Survive In m Factories”

' = _
ae ae

Tim Dwight

. Pree * "2

A Liberal Arts College is supposed to
be a place where relatively dumb people
(students) can spend a few years talking
and arguing with relatively smart people
(professors), and where these relatively
dumb people can pay several thousand
dollars to obtain the privilege of honing
their writing, listening, and arguing
skills with the help of these relatively
smart people, and where a relatively
dumb person, after a lot of work from
both the dumb and the smart camps,
may change into a relatively smart
person. Then this person graduates and,
if lucky, begins work in a Pizza Hut.

Unfortunately, our educational sys-
tem and our economic system are
inseparable partners. Many essential
jobs require years of preparation so
students have to plan years in advance
in order to get these jobs. Also
unfortunately, a liberal arts education
comes to be seen mainly as preparation
for the next step toward a successful
career.

A public university performs many
functions, but the function that keeps it
alive, its primary reason for being, is to
prepare people to be good job applicants
(and theoretically to be good workers).
Even if a
up as a pre tion-factory, that is what
it becomes. The students demand this of
the university because in its turn the
market demands the same from the
students.

In theory, a private liberal arts college
is supposed to be different from a public
university. It should be a place where a
student steps out of this flow of
economic determinism, dries himself,
watches the flow from the outside, then
jumps back in again, a far more effective
swimmer because he has spent some
time out contemplating on the bank.
However, in the American private
college, most students do not step out at
all. They enter a swifter, more competi-
tive flow. The invisible -hand reaches
even into the so-called liberal arts
education.

Even so, student demand is not the
most fundamental way that our econo-
mic system forms our educational sys-
tem. Our colleges are modeled on
factories. Students are raw material to
be given information for four years—
then they become finished products. A
college has an ideal standard which it
works to make each student fit. A
college also assumes that a new student
arrives with certain traits and developed
skills. Most educational institutions
become places devoted, like factories, to
output, instead of to genuine learning.
Students are processed: the emphasis is
on getting them through and graduated.

“Another analogy using the factory
theme reveals something interesting.
Students become alienated from their
work with grades as the students’
equivalent of wages. Although it would
seem that a student ina liberal arts
college would have a good chance to
work for himself, it is a rare student who
‘does not see his work as alien. The
student feels this way because what he
produces is not his own. First, he
produces for a grade (or to keep from
getting a bad grade). A grade, like a
wage, is a symbol for a degrading social
relation. He aims first not to learn for
himself, but to please another.

Also, the direction the student
takes through the morass of writing left
behind by previous generations is deter-
mined by the instructor. The student
doesn’t follow his own path, but one set
down for him. The student ends up
travelling the highways of history, the

well-traveled routes’ into the past, and

iversity is not originally set ,

teachers become little more than tour
guides. It is no wonder that students
become passive snapshot-takers.

Many words are wasted explaining
that we study the past in order to
understand the present better. In prac-
tice this is only a slogan and will remain
a slogan because of two genetic defects.
First, a student cannot understand
something in reading from history that
he has not already seen in his own life.
Second, through many years of school-
ing, a student becomes estranged from
nature. His real world becomes the

PU AG A WMA CA? . Lie

books and he forgets that these books
were written about the world he lives in.
He is de-educated. His link with nature
is broken. ; .

A liberal arts education should re-
establish this broken link. While in high
school or prep school, we have learned
how to agree with the teacher, how to
smile nicely, and how to receive good

‘grades for slightly reprocessing some

information. A good education would
break up the habits of students and
replace them with the habits of free
persons. We would learn why we become

SS MAATTIIUY CA

Y, bi
MM Iie
2A

who we should process information for.

~ Unfortunately, Davidson's students, ad-

ministrators, and teachers, in almost
every case, do not have this in mind. We
have in mind our future jobs and our
future incomes and therefore we watch
our GPA’s closely. Because of this
narrow vision, almost all students leave
Davidson as ignorant of the world as
when they arrived. If students do
become smarter here, it is almost in spite
of what surrounds them. ; ay

Tim Dwight is Opinions Editor.

i It’s ite S.GA's new plan... ELIMINATE st:
the housing, shortage by reducing demand !" o.

Citizens Have Duty To Fight

Will Reilly

Instead of asking, ‘‘Does the govern-
ment have the right to enforce the
draft?’’, perhaps, we should ask our-
selves, ‘Does one have a duty to serve
one’s country?” One may safely venture
a ‘“‘no’’ to the first question—but what
are the implications of responding
negatively to the second question? I
believe very few people would publicly
say, ‘No, I do not have any obligation to
serve my country in return for what it
has done for me—provided me with
security und freedom.’’ And, of course,
we expect people to be consistent in their
public and private lives. Only a two-
faced lying hypocrite would say ‘‘yes”’ in
public and ‘‘no’”’ in private with respect
to this question. We certainly don’t want
to have for a friend he who says one
thing and does another. Rather, we
search for a rare bird—the man of
principles.

Of course, all that has been so far said
is rather obvious. The really nasty and
“un-obvious” business comes in deter-
mining what this duty to one’s country
consists of. ‘‘I pay my taxes,’’ growls on
e American, ‘‘and that’s plenty enough.”
“IT never made any agreement with the
government,’’-says our philosophical
skeptic. ‘‘I had no chojce in the matter
and the idea of tacit consent or even the
hypothetical social contract strikes me
as implausible.”’

The man growling about taxes is our
average American clod: the materialist.
The skeptic is he who would transcent all
earhly nets;the immaterialist. Perhaps
with a couple of simple notions we
be able to move these two beings, the

one of pure matter and the other of pure
idea or thought, a’ bit closer to one
another.

The first of these ideas is that of
reciprocity. If the state does all that it
does in education, security, and main-
taining freedom, then each one of us
should be happy to serve the govern-
ment for approximately two years of our
lives. This would be an across-the-board
level of equality: that of serving the
government. If the government serves
the people, then necessarily the people
must serve it to obliterate any distinc-
tion between master and slave, leader
and follower, the ruler and the ruled. In
theory, a democracy is a government by
the people. But if the government serves
us, it is only because we make it work
and function.

How do we make the government
work and function? The answers are not
lacking: forestry, national health care,
etc. ...and the armed forces, of course.
The armed forces maintain the external
security upon which our internal security
upon which our internal security de-
pends. Ideally, of course, the army
should be staffed by volunteers. Unfor-
tunately, no one likes to get shot or even
wounded (except extreme masochists).
Yet the job has to get done. And that is
the nasty part about the draft.

Now we could sling statistics about
the volunteer Army of today. But as one
has said, ‘“‘There are.lies, damn lies, and
statistics.”” Why use statistics if they
aren’t reliable? You would have to be a
statistician just to know when they are
reliable! So looking at the matter with a

little common sense, we might conclude
that an Armed Forces which relies on the
draft is much stronger than one which.
relies on volunteers. And in a war, one is’
out to win, not to fight ‘‘morally.”’
Perhaps, a mandatory two-year Army
training would not hurt our defensive
capabilities. It would certainly. increase
the sense of national unity, and probably
increase personal hygiene 200%!
As for he who denies the tacit consent

the presuppositions in our life. He who
thinks he can is a fool. We are born in a
specific time and place, and each age is
presented with its own challenges which
it must rise to meet or let pass. In short,
we mist somewhere take a stand or be
inauthentic, i.e. shallow. Our thinking
will help us perceive the issues more
clearly and show us where to take a
stand. As Berkeley puts it, “It seems
the general opinion of the world,..., that.
the end of speculation be practice or the
improvement and regulation of our lives
and actions.’’ I believe the general
opinion to be right. at A es
In shory, let us be men, of principle.

Thinking will not make the issues

themselves disappear, and it is the.

issues of our day which halllenge us.
is really is going on under all the noise,
fury and confusion in the world—and_
the fray! Year wie
Will Reilly is the Rev: Hyden er
