THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

_

We Get Letters

We are more than happy to get letters to the editor, even if they
are critical of The Davidsonian, but we hope that anyone who
wants to criticize the paper will read it first. Last week, the
members of the field hockey team wrote to complain that The
Davidsonian has made or published many criticisms of Davidson’s
Athletic Department and Davidson athletes to the point that many
students regard the paper as a ‘‘rag sheet.”’

The team’s letter goes on to defend the value of athletics (the
football team in particular) by noting that athletics produce more
well-rounded individuals, that, members of the football team create
a more diverse student body, that our football and basketball

programs draw blacks and Northerners to Davidson, and that —

athletics are good for school spirit. _

All of the statements in the last paragraph are true. The problem
with the hockey team’s letter is that The Davidsonian has never
contested any of these statements as it implied. In fact, it seems
that the one thing everyone who has addressed athletic issues
(including this editor) has agreed upon is that athletics can make a
significant contribution to College life.

What The Davidsonian and a lot of other people have been
questioning is how high a priority the College should place on this
contribution, and whether current athletic policy (dictated by the
Trustees, not by members of the Athletic Department) really does
maximize athletics’ contribution to Davidson. We feel that the
College is placing too high a financial priority on athletics as
opposed to education and is following a misguided policy of
athletics for alumni instead of athletics for athletes.

In light of these considerations The Davidsonian has made the
following athletic policy récommendations:

— Budgets for so-called ‘‘minor sports” should not suffer at the
expense of pumping more money into football and basketball.
Davidson's athletic program should stress student participation,
not heavy recruiting.

—The College should reassess its committment to DivisionI
men’s basketball. Even if such a high-powered program were
appropriate for a school like Davidson, the monetary price we pay
(a $210,000 net loss for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1979) for it
may be too high. Also, Southern Conference regulations
require that all our men’s sports compete at the unreasonable
Division I level if we want to have a Division I basketball team.

—The College should drop our $249,000 football program
to a club sport level. The faculty is still underpaid and some
departments need additional professors because of rising enroll-
ment. Something will have to give in the College budget soon, and
we don’t think it should be academics.

The team’s letter calls for unity and school spirit, but bemoans
the fact that students and faculty have criticized athletic policy.
We think school spirit means a little more than yelling
“Go Davidson!” at athletic events. School spirit involves looking
critically at College policies in order to make Davidson a better
place.

If holding this view makes The Davidsonian a ‘‘rag sheet’’, so be
it.

— Mark Barrett

Gobbledygook

“These capabilities of computers emerge from their architecture,
from the relationship between form and function Students and
faculty must understand, to the degree that their studies and
growth require. these capacities and qualities of the computer.
To do othorwive is to ignore’ vital force in our culture.’

What?

. The abgve comes from new Computers Director Robert
DeSieno’s justification of a new computer system which could cost
up to one million dollars to buy and implement. Davidson
probably does need a new computer system, but given the College's

limited financial resources, we'd like a few more specific

reasons for spending so much money.

We are told that a new computer system is necessary
for a strong liberal arts education. Yet when we ask exactly
how a new system would improve the Davidson education
we get vague answers. The faculty even voted last week to approve
the system without even having any idea of how much it would
cost

As it stands, the administration's justification of the large

monetary outlay is gobbledygook which amounts to ‘‘We want
it.” . .

— Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Kremser Refutes

Editor’s Note: Former David-

son soccer coach Karl Kremser
wrote this letter to Sports
/Ilustrated in response to a
quote of his that appeared in
their Sept. 15 On the Record.
The remarks attributed to
him in that issue are: Karl
Kremser, onetime Miami Dol-
phin placekicker, on why he
quit coaching at Davidson Col-
lege: ‘‘I thought the school had
a commitment to soccer, but
that wasn’t the case...Its em-
phasis was on academics.”

‘Lo the Editor:

The remarks attributed to me
in your September 15 issue are
completely false. I did not quit
my coaching position at David-
son—I was simply not rehired.
I certainly would never quit
coaching at an institution be-
cause of its emphasis on aca-
demics.

I initially went to Davidson
because it was recognized as one
of the top academic institutions
in the country, and had realistic
expectations in athletics. The
relentless pressure to win did
not exist for the minor sports.

Academics are first at David-
son and every athlete is sub-
jected to the same academic
pressures as the rest of the
student body. The coaching
staff recognizes that there are
other places to hide academi-
cally and uses Davidson’s aca-
demic reputation to recruit top
student-athletes to the school.
To attempt to do anything else
would be folly.

Karl K. Kremser

Registration

To the Editor:

Having recently received my
numbers for course selection
and remembering, with a shud-
der, the concomitant trauma
and frustration, I was tempted
to tear up the blasted forms.
Experience shows that I would
get my courses just as easily
without them.

Now a junior, I began my
Davidson experience by having
to get three courses through
drop-add. Can you imagine the

panic in my freshman heart as I
visited table after table, and the
wrath of my parents’. heart as
they wrote check after check?
Winter term, too, I had to go
through a list of twenty-one
possibilities before I got a third
class, a class which did irrepar-
able damage to my G.P.A. and
emotional well-being. Spring
term of the same year, I got
classes only because new
courses were created out of thin
air. Sophomore year was a
rerun of that horror story. I felt
confident last Spring that I
would get a full schedule since I
was going on the Classics
abroad program, but even then
something happened and only
one course was printed on my
schedule sheet. Finally, this
term, as a junior, I got three
courses, but none were Latin,
needed to complete my major.
I’ve given careful considera-
tion to the fact that it might be
my fault for choosing courses
high in demand, but no one can
tell me that I was last in line
behind a great throng to sign up
for Latin 136. Even if I were,
though, I pay my seven thou-
sand dollars to get the educa-
tion I want. That is one of the
advantages the PR people push
about Davidson. They play up
its small size and coax prospec-
tive students with the notion of
the individual’s choice in the
course of study he pursues. The
choice is there, on : xerox
sheets, but what good does it do

the student if it cannot be had? |

I have been quite disillu-
sioned during my years here
and feel that an addendum
should be placed under alenda
lux ubi orta libertas: CAVEAT
EMPTOR.

Again, the numbers are
slipped under my door...

Phoebe Forio ’82

one end of mastering in all their
facts a language by which to
illustrate and embody our per-
ceptions.

I learn immediately from any
speaker how much he has
already lived, through the pov-
erty or the splendor of his
speech. Life lies behind us as
the quarry from whence we get
tiles and copestones for the
masonry of to-day. This is the
way to learn grammar. Colleges
and books only copy the lang-
uage which the field and the
work-yard made.

Ralph Waldo Emerson

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

The Davidsonian is publishea
weekly in the academic year
(except during holidays and
examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College.
Mailing address: P.O. Box 218,
Davidson N.C. 28036. Tele-
phone: 892-2000, extension 148.
Subscription rate: $8.00 per
year. Advertising rates availa-
ble on request. Second class
postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Emerson

If it were only for a vocabu-
lary, the scholar would ‘be
covetous of action. L ife is our
dictionary. Years are well spent
‘in country labors; in town; in
the insight into trades and
manufactures; in frank inter-
course with many men and
women; in science; in art; to the

Mark Barrett, Editor

Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager

Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Eartor
Glenn Kellum, Feetures Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor

Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCuny, Photography Editor

John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Jim Moore, Asst. Managing Editor
Jeff Mann, Graphics Assistant
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant

Lisa Buckley, Production Associate
Bernadette Walter, Production Associate

