| THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

No Pacifiers Please

The visiting athletic committee was brought here to
pacify critics, not solve problems. The Trustees have
placed such limitations on the committee’s membership
and the scope of the issues that it will discuss that we
find it hard to believe that the Trustees are truly interested
in serious criticism of athletic policy, constructive though
it might be.

While we respect the members of the committee for
what they.are, athletic administrators, we doubt that they
are really qualified to comment on the broad questions of
athletic policy in relation to the rest of the College that
demand consideration. Ostensibly, the Trustees set up
the committee to examine questions such as whether a
school of Davidson’s size and financial resources can or
should afford to support teams at the present levels of
compensation as well as the athletic department’s inner
machinations. :

Yet the committee members, two of whom are athletic
_ directors, the other a director of physical education, have
few qualifications to bring to such a broad examination.
They have only had experience with athletics, but the
question calls for knowledge of college administration,
educational goals, and the ability to assess the College’s
financial situation. Also, anyone who has been involved
with athletics as long as the committee members have
carries a natural bias in favor of athletics.

Davidson’s Advisory Council on intercollegiate Ath-
letics recommended that the committee contain at least
two persons from non-athietic areas such as academic
and financial administration. The Council’s recommend-
ations were ignored, apparently because the Trustees
were afraid of what such a well-formed committee might
decide.

The visiting committee is also well aware of the fact
that for the time being the Trustees wili not even consider
any change in men’s basketball’s Division | status. As
President Spencer pointed out in an interview last week,
the committee can comment on whatever it chooses, but
two members of the committee said at the open meeting
with students Wednesday that the committee was not
looking at the commitment to Division | in any great depth
precisely because of the Trustee’s stance.

Yet this commitment to attempt to regain national
prominence in men’s basketball, (necessitating Division |
Status) has a very profound effect on the entire athletic
program and the College as a whole, so much so
that any evaluation worthy of the name must examine our
goals in basketball. Besides sucking some $210,282 from
the already tightly stretched athletic budget last fiscal
year, our Division | status in basketball demands that our
minor male sports compete on a Division’! level also,
because of NCAA and Southern Conference regulations.

And indications are that given the size of our student
body and the minor sports budgets, Division | is a very
unrealistic level of competition for some of our minor
sports teams. The Trustees’ actions indicate that they
either don’t know about the problem, or simply don’t care.

It is long past time to evaluate our athletic aspirations
within the context of the College as a whole, not simply
within the athletic department. This may prove difficult,
since one of the members of the visiting committee
admitted that even he did not know what the College’s
goals are, and he is by no means in the minority.

But a genuine evaiuation of athletics’ role at Davidson
cannot be delayed any longer. The College’s financial
situation demands it. Faculty and staff salaries, for
example, have declined against inflation since 1966. The
Trustees are committed to footing the bill for achieving
national prominence in basketball, but not necessarily to
maintaining the school’s quality of education.

We must decide if basketball can continue to force
minor sports to. compete over their heads even while the
basketball program compiles miserable records. And we
must ask ourselves if big time athletes have any place at a
small, liberal arts college such as Davidson in the first

lace. :

' The Trustees should realize the importance of the broad
questions of athletic goals and College priorities, instead
of merely handing us a pacifier.
— Mark Barrett

iJ vie ‘ Hib Re, , f ay a
i py |
\ (eke : if
, A\W N Z
G : ‘ a F : / f aD
ae } : u
Y } tH
Pati] | :
act ae v
4 } ase ‘ nf

ole? ne

* Se ~ ites ° ge $ is : i
“Is THIS THe Peace THATHAS RATS?" -

Service Brings Understanding

Minor Sinclair
The Y Student Service Corps. _ second place finish. But in other
For such a humble organization activities, nothing is more ap-

it carries a mighty ostentatious
name. Considering that I be-

parent than the numbing reali-
zation of what you cannot do.

lieve most do-gooders are moti- After a while it is not enough
vated by a feeling of guilt or just to listen to someone's sad
pity rather than a desiretohelp, story and pat them on the back.

and further considering that I
believe most do-gooders cause
«more harm than benefit to the

victim, it seems to mea curious _relief and moving towards com-
circumstance, not to mention a munity organizing. This is an
contradiction that I find myself attempt to change a system
as one of the heads of the which causes injustice, rather
organization of do-gooders. than give band-aids which ease

In the name of social service, the situation only temporarily.
the Y has been granted a license | have been pleased to see the
to invade the homes of perfect Y, with amoeboid movements,
strangers, to pry into their undergoing a similar re-orienta-
lives, and to stare wide-eyed at tion, seeking to alter the system
their ‘‘problem.’’ The STEP rather than retouch its defective
tutors go into the homes of the products. However, there is no
grade school children they tutor cause for alarm; the Depot

and discover the sociological
why’s of the kid’s poor perfor-
mance in school. Those who
visit the prison can get to see
real live criminals, animals in
cages. Those who visit the
lonely are a witness to the
wasted by-products of society,
the “throwaways.”

After such an experience, the
do-gooder is thrilled. The im-
mediate reward of doing good,
of “‘saving’”’ someone from suf-
fering, is gratifying. The do-
gooder’s instincts are quenched
and one can retire into the
comfortable routines of academ-
ic life. And another’s harsh
realities are forgotten.

If that is where social service
ends then the do-gooder has
missed an opportunity for un-
derstanding, as well as blown a
chance to really have an impact,
to make a difference. Instead of
thrilling, the experience should
be saddening, aggravating and
immensely frustrating. It
should be frustrating to work at
the Day Care Center and see
pre-kindergarten kids who are
already behind in their school-
ing and to realize that they
might always be behind in their
schooling. It should be frustrat-
ing to work on winterization
projects, stapling polyethylene
over the windows of someone's
house when there is a gaping

Over the past twenty years,
social service has been moving
away from direct emergency

lunch is not planning a protest
rally. We still do our regular
activities, however, I also de-
tect interest to be involved in
political awareness and social
education.

We are focusing our propa-
ganda efforts at ourselves for as
students we will emerge as the
next generation of doctors,
lawyers, teachers and prea-
chers—in a word, the system. If
we fail now to perceive the
problems and need around us,
in town and at the college, the
system, which we eventually
bequeath to our children, will
contain the same unjustices it
now contains.

The Y does not have the
resources now to change the
world very much. We have
neither the skill nor the money
to repair the back wall of a
house. And it does help to put
plastic on some windows (even
when the panes are missing).
However, it is vitally important
that we see the need, recognize
that the situation now is not
right, and realize that it does
not have to be this way.
Someday, soon I hope, we can
do something about it. Change
comes, at first, through atti-
tudes.

With this in mind, I would
like to make a plug for Prison

hole in their back wall. Awareness Week, which
Y Student Service Corps been taking place the hist A
activities are not all frustrating days. It is being directed by

and aggravating, however. Ma-

‘ ny activities are just for fun—

the upcoming barbecue and ice
cream on Town Day, for exam-
ple. Few things are as enjoyable
as coaching a soccer team in the
sun even if to a disappointing

Cathy Ansheles and sponsored
by the Y. On Tuesday morning
T.J. Reddy (one of America’s
Political prisoners and one of
the Charlotte 3) talked and
signed copies of his new book.
Yesterday Joe Bethanti, an

instructor at CPCC and at
Huntersville Prison, delivered a
talk on “Prison as a Revolving
Door.”’

Tonight a panel discussion
will feature the Superintendent
of Huntersville Prison, an in-
mate, several students and a
professor, Kay Smith, as they
reflect on their experiences with
the prison system. (7:30 p.m.
900 Room).

row evening the Y and the
Black Student Coalition are
putting on a disco at the
Stonewall Jackson Training
Center in Concord. All are
welcome. You will have the
opportunity to see first hand
how an inmate lives in an
institution of the Department of
Corrections.

Being involved with the Y is,
at times, fun and relaxing. At
other times involvement is
downright disturbing and dan-
gerous. But at all times it is
rewarding.

eeeoceeeees

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper’s office on the third
floor of the College Union.

Mark Barrett
Editor

Peter Hairston, Business Manager

John Siman, News Editor
Aida Doss, Features Editor
Tim Dwight, Qpinions Editor
Van Beck, Sports Editor
Jeff Herrin, Backpage Editor

John McDowell, Advertising Manager
Margaret Jackson, Aroduction Manager

Jeff Dempsey, Opinions Graphics Editor

Marshall Waddell, Production Associate

