The English View

Lulu Kempster

Don’t deny that the unenlightened
American has certain preconceived ideas
about Englishmen. An austere crank,
oozing in tradition in pin stripe suit and
bowler hat, browsing through the
“Court. Page’ of ‘The Times” as he
gently sips his hot brew of ‘‘Earl Grey
Tea”’ ordered from “‘Jackson’s of Picca-
dily”’ or “‘Fortnum and Mason.” Savour-
ing the last delicate crumbs of the jam
laden scenes sent from Harrods by dear
Lady Rumpers, he turns methodically to
the sports page to read the cricket scores
but finds only an article on Princess
Anne’s prowess at the Badmington
Horse Trials.

Or, perhaps you envisage a sixteen -

year old pimply punk rocker, bedecked
with safety pins, razor blades and
graffiti-spattered leather jacket toasting
his dead hero, Johnny Rotten with his
seventh pint of warm flat beer in
smoky, local pub in Clapham, vibrating
with the deafening music of ‘‘The
Clash.”’
I will not deny that before I came to
Davidson I too had preconceived ideas
‘about American people and have found
out since then how wrong I was. Sitting
uneasily in the aeroplane from Gatwick
to Atlanta last summer, I wondered
whether all Americans would be like
those one encounters while doing the
tour of the Louvre or passes on a hot,
sunny street in Mykonos.

He, flushed red in garish plaid shirt
dripping with impressive Japanese ca-
meras can be heard with ease from a
great distance as he puffs on a fat cigar
and wipes the condensation from his
dark glasses which relieve the blood shot
eyes, a result of trying out one too many
local ‘‘Concoctions’’ the previous even-
ing.

She, with handsome purple rinse
protected by beaded hairnet and yolu-
minous ‘‘Kiss me Quick’’ T-shirt is
comforted by a Coke and donut in the
museum cafeteria, her feet throbbing

mercilessly in her sensible diamante ,

studded high heeled stilleto shoes. She
wonders if Sally remembered to take
little ‘‘Jimbo” to the poodle parlour.
Little Billy yeams for a jumbo sized
hamburger smeared with ‘‘catsup’’ and a
piece of Mama’s cheese cake. Bored by
the Mona Lisa, he wishes he were
playing baseball. Dragged along behind
his father, he grizzles unceasingly while
blowing balloons with his bubble gum.
How exaggerated you must think
these notions are and yet some notions
about English people are equally ridicu-
lous though they bear some element of
truth. One of the greatest pleasures in
life is observing other people. While you
are laughing at their foibles, remember
that they find yours equally amusing.

SSS

=——

Lulu Kempster is an exchange student
jrom the U.K.

EAP

SrA

{
pakg VeMlt ASS

January 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

(Vonnie Hendrickson)

Sennett Don't Have To Be Expensive

Rick Johnston aie! a. eT

ae

In the last several years, gor expen-

sive improvements have been realized at
Davidson: namely the: ‘egnstruction of:

the E.H. Little Library, ahd the renova-
tion of the Martin Science Building.

Some expensive improvements ‘(such as
the Commons) have been approved for
the future, while other: expensive im-. °

provements (new professorships, .a new
gym) are under consideration:

Have we been ignoring less expensive
improvements? Is it possible to make
improvements that don’t cost millions of
dollars? Below I offer some suggestions
that put no constraints on our already
tight budget.

The period in which students are
permitted to drop a course without
penalty should be lengthened. It might
only take a week to determine if you like
a professor, but it might take longer to
determine if a professor likes you. Many
courses begin their first few weeks by
covering rather simple concepts. It may
be two or three weeks before you realize
that the material is over your head.
Some universities permit a student to
drop a course until exam week. In
addition, we need to establish a con-
siderable period of time where a student
is permitted to go from pass/fail status
to regular grading status in a course.

Night exams have been discussed in
the past, but the idea deserves more
serious consideration. Many students
work better at night, and it <5 ynfair to
penalize them unZer our existing morn-
ing/af aftcrnoon exam schedule. We need
to give night exams ‘a trial run by
scheduling an exam period between 7
p.m, and 10 p.m. on the first day of
exams. The SGA could then poll the
students to find out if they were
svecessful.

1 cannot understand why there is any

upposition to having students on the
Board of Trustees. Students not only
have more of a stake in Davidson College

than the: Trustees, they are probably
better: informed about most’ issues

‘concerning this institution. I would like

to see: four students on the Board of —
Trustees —elected in their junior year by -

the student body to serve a two year
term. Two students would be elected
each year, and would have to be
approved by the administration before
assuming their position.

More business-oriented courses should
be added to the curriculum. As shown in
last Sunday’s Charlotte Observer, stu-
dents across the country demonstrate
an increasing desire to study the
business world: At Davidson, professors
must‘continually exclude interested
students from practical business courses
such ds accounting, statistics, and
public: finarice. Since the economics
department is currently looking for a
replacement for Dr. Avinger, perhaps

_ they should seek out a person speciali-

zing in business-related fields.

Discussion groups are needed to
supplement many of the courses in our
curriculum. One Ivy League university
bases its entire course structure upon
this concept. The Humanities Srogram
has.done-2-eeminendable job in this area,
centered upon lecture, followed un. by
group discussion (though [| think the
groups are. too largej. These discussion
grouns could be led by a professor or a
student with experience in the field.

If there are extra seats available for a
course, we showld encourage qualified
members of the community, especially

senior citizens, to participate with °

students .in attending classes. People
outside the student community can add
a great deal of insight to our learning
experience. Their experiences in life and
diverse points of view may prove to be
invaluable to our understanding. -
Finally I would like to propose a
student teaching day, held once a term,
where seniors could teach lower level

“ conises inl, thet major or ocher areas :
where they are qualified. ‘Not.only would ©

this break up the monotony of the daily
class schedule,

appreciate the faculty more if they put

themselves in their professor's place for -
a day. A student teaching day would ‘

enrich our learning: one of the best ways

to learn something is to teach it to.

someone else.

‘iepdinnerth which don’t peTY are a

college ény money are just. as important. 4
.. asthe multi-million dollar improvements -
hut also’ students would --

under consideration. Thope that many of ©

-our ideas, big or small, cheap or costly,

can be realized in the near future to make

Davidson an even better place for all of
us. *2

Hte k Johnston is a staff columnist.

SGA Wants Opinion

~ Jim Haynes

For the past few years the Davidson ‘
athletic’ program has been a frequent —
topic of discussion on the Davidson cam-

pus. Vocal-faculty members and policy-
making Trustees make their respective

opinions very clear. Some students.

revealed their stance earlier this year.
through an active poster campaign

which highlighted deficiencies in our

athletic policy. Unfortunately, indignant
protestations by. concerned faen'ty-and

individual student; ugdinst unyielding

(in this case) Trustees have not facili-
tated a constructive exchange of ideas.
Rather, these actions have resulted in
heightened tension on campus and have
‘created a tendency among competing
factions to fortify their positions while

. disregarding other points of view. Some

faculty members think they are being
ignored; many in the athletic depart-
ment feel as if they are in a state of siege.
Pressure is coming from all sides: the
Trustees ‘want winning teams, the

faculty wants an academic atmosphere

and higher pay (at the expense of
athletics if need be), and the students

want... WHAT?

No one really knows what the students
as a whole want.

This lack is what prompted the SGA

Senate to conduct a student opinion poll.

The Senate is concerned about the
absence of productive communication on
the Davidson Athletics issue and hopes

‘to-promote a better atmosphere for
‘debate. The Senate feels that an accurate

assessment of student opinion is: crucial
for that debate.

Through che recent nt Gaestionnaire, the

; Senats tropes to gauge student opinion in

five areas potentially affected by Athle-
tic policy: athletic budget priorities,
social life, academic standards (inclu-
ding Honor Code), school. image, and
alumni support. The Athletic committee
sought to create an objective question-
naire, but the fact that a questionnaire
was created at all reveals a bias toward
possible change. The questions reflected
major topics of discussion among stu-
dents.

_ The Senate hopes that this question-

naire will be helpful in future considera-
tion of athletics. at Davide,’ More

Senior Jim Haynes is: SGA At

Committee Chairman. Makan SS a

