=

,

_ The Back Page

. Spirit Square in Charlotte

4° If you. missed The Matchmaker last weekend, you bave:a second

chance to enjoy the Davidson Drama Department's spring production.
This amusing farce by Thornton Wilder will be presented in Spirit Square
on Friday and Saturday nights (May 2-3) at 8:15 p.m.

Also on Saturday, for the young at heart, the Tarradiddle Players will
present Flora Atkin’s Dig und Tell at 2:00 p.m. The gist of this play is an
entertaining expedition to the Middle East.

Then on Tuesday (May 6), at 8:15 p.m., Richard Marshall will appear
with Victoria Grof. Grof, a New York City Opera mezzo-soprano, will be
accompanied by pianist Marshall, of the Charlotte Opera.

Ticket prices: The Match muhker—$4.00; Dig and-1'cll—$2.00; Marshall
and Grof—$5.00. For information call 376-8883.

» Dance Troupe

The New Reflections Dance Troupe, scheduled to appear here on May
1 has cancelled their engagement. Se it goes.

Speakers Committee Chairman

There will be interviews Tuesday night for a new Union Speakers
Committee Chairman. The present holder of that position, Mike Cooper,
has decided to go JYA next year and hence the opening. Sign up at the
Union desk before Tuesday if you think you're interested.

Ugly Man On Campus

The annual selection of the Ugly Man on Campus will begin this week.
Boxes will be placed around campus for nominations, which will close on
Friday. Then, on Tuesday, the five or six nominees with the most
nominations will have a runoff election. Each candidate will have a jar,
and votes are a penny apiece.

All proceeds will go to APO, Davidson's service’ fraternity, for

’ charitable use.

Current Events Discussion

Want to express yuur opinions on global and national affairs? The.

weekly Current Events Discussion Group has been reinstated, providing
all with a place to argue their poin with other adamant souls. Organized
mainly by students, the weekly discussion group is meeting Thursday
evenings in the Center for Special Studies, anid only interest is necessary
to keep the practice up into the coming year.

“The topic tonight: (May 1) is “Iran, the Middle East, and the U.S.:
‘Should Billy be president or send in the Israelis!” The discussion will get

_ started around 6:45; anyone is welcome.

Jazz Ensemble
And Spring Dance

The Jazz Ensemble will be making two appearances as a group this
weekend, as a finish to the year, Friday night (May 2) the stage band.
will be in the 900 Room at 10:30 playing everybody’s favorite tunes, as
they have done successfully in time past.

Then, for the first time.in recent memory, the Jazz Ensemble will play
for the Spring Dance to be held in Chambers Gallery on Saturday, May 3
(9:30 p.m.—1 a.m.). The theme of the dance will be the “Big Band”’
sound of Glenn Miller and his contemporaries. The dance will be
accompanied by pianist Marshall of the Charlotte Opera.

Presented by the Music Department and the Union Dance Committee,
admission is $1.50 per couple, $1.00 per person.

OW, HUSH! THERE'S No SucH THING aS ReopLel”

of

Events on Campus

Iriday, May 2
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film: 7he Graduate (R) Love
10:30 Jazz Ensemble Performance 900 Room

Saturday, May 3 : .
BSC 5th annual Runathon—from Davidson to the Lake Campus
9:30 Spring Dance Gallery

Monday, May 5
8:15 Piano Recital: James G. Swisher Hodson

Wednesday, May 7
8:00 Fine Film: The Maids Love
8:15 Student Piano Recital Hodson

‘Thursday, May 8
6:00 Picnic Dinner: Trustees and Students Front of Dana

8:15 Trombone Recital /Lecture: Derl Sanderson Hodson
9:30 All-Stars in Concert: Rock ’n Roll/Blues 900 Room

DUSTIN HOFFMAN
ANNE BANCROFT

THE GRADUATE

Friday 8 & 10:30 Love
$1.50 or SEASON PASS

Edited by Jeff Herrin
