e date USC, 21-4

Res eek ie Wikdies lacconne team with five goals and two
assists to a 21-4 victory over the University of South Carolina.
It was the last game for the stickmen as they finished with a 5-3

* record. Other scorers for the Cats were Dave Riopel (3), Phil
Goodnow (2), Jolin Higginbotham (2), Rob Moore (2), Dave
Waddill (2), Tom Baker (1), Andy Engh (1), Dean Jones (1), Ben
McCall(1); and Kevin. Wheelock (1).

‘The Cats also received great support from their défense. Led by
the spirit of goalkeeper Tommy Thompson, and the defense of
Kelvin Anderson and Bob Bowden, the Cats battered, bruised, and
7 teat the South Carolina team. —JOE FORD

‘s track ends at State

‘The 5 Delideos women’s s track team concluded their season this
past weekend at the N. C. State meet. Leading the effort was Susan
school record in the 1500m with a time of 4:57.7. Diane Downing
got a 4th place in the 400m intermediate hurdle and a 6th in the
400m dash, as well as competing on three relay teams. Mike
Frankhouser finished 6th in the javelin and 7th in the high jump.
Coach Steve Frank praised the efforts of all the members of the
team and especially Carol Heppner’s performances in the 3 relay
races. He was extremely pleased with everyone’s showings
throughout the season and considers the season a success for
everyone involved. —JOHN REES

Pep!

Men’s track finishes eighth

The Davidson men’s track team finished up its season with the
Southern Conference meet this past Saturday at The Citadel in
Charleston, S.C. Dick Jones and Lance Sisco led the Cat
effort placing in the intermediate hurdles and. 110m high
hurdles, respectively. Coach Kremser commented that he
expected the team to place higher than eighth, noting that the
competition was more even than last year. Sisco and Jones will be
continuing in competition this week, running in an invitational
meet this Saturday at N.C. State.. — —JOHN HOOTS

Girls’ soccer gains support

Throughout the spring, an interest in the women’s club soccer

team seems.to be gradually increasing. Hopefully, this enthusiasm _

- will result in a well-established team for the upcoming years.

On Sunday, April 28, some women soccer players from Davidson
competed against a women’s club team from Charlotte. Even
though Davideon hed sslresdy won » match against this team
earlier in the season, the Wildcats lost with a final score of 3—1
{Caroline Scott scored the goal). After the game, thé Davidson and
Charlotte players enjoyed a cookout at Hobart’s Park together.

Many of the women from Charlotte commented on the speedy —

improvement of the Davidson players; also, the opponents seemed
_ to think that the of a women’s varsity soccer team
would-be a good idea because of the zest and ability of the present
players.
Don’t worry ..
observe this dynamic team, then perhaps you can see the game at
Fayetteville this Sunday. Probably, a few more games will be
scheduled before the end of the term.

Men’s tennis disappointed —
There wasn't a lot of enthusiasm radiating from the men’s
tennis team when they returned from the Southern’ Conference

- tournament. It could only be described, as Jay |
long three days.’ “Phe one bright spot was the second place finish of

_ sophomore Nevins Todd. Although he lost (6-3, 6-8) in the finals, he

beat the-number ont seed (6-0, 6-2).

“The biggest letdown was probably the finish of the number-one.

doubles. Harry Griffith and Jay Gepfert finished fourth. Gepfert
es es care ok “adtectanis annoy” 69 4 ‘inconsistently .”’

3 called “untouchable tandém” by this Davidsonian
‘ writer has a bright note for the readers. ‘They have an opportunity

to be in NCAA Tennis tournament, entering in the doubles
compet Tt would be the first time in Davidson history that
oe z

"Tho team ended up 11-9, with 8 rainouts.

. if you have not yet had the opportunity to |

—MARSHA COATES.

‘ gully, Best Food East of Tulsa

MAIN ST., DAVIDSON

ns 4
| i i a , ji | 892-8686

— DELIVERIES. —

DELIVERY SPECIAL

OF THE WEEK

TONIGHT ONLY
16” PEPPERONI PIZZA
$5.00

8:30 - 11:00
every day of the week
$5.00 MINIMUM

.50 DELIVERY CHARGE }

& aN oO @ Special DAVIDSON
Student Rental plan with ID
Co
oF @ FREE T-shirt with ID
with rental
& FREE delivery or first month’s rent
@ Special DAVIDSON Graduate Purchase Option Plan
@ Guaranteed New Merchandise _
@ Rent one Room or an entire Apartment
@ 24-hour Delivery Service et,
© Quality Furniture Wide Selection
(© FREE Apartment locator service
VISIT OUR BEAUTIFUL. SHOWROOM
Pee _ 5438 East Independence Bivd.

Charlotte, N.C. 28212
(704)536-8876
