December 5, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Davidson students are political moderates, according to poll -

By ANNE GOODWIN"
Staff Writer

During the week’ before the November 4
elections, two of Political Science Profes-
sor Mary Thornberry’s classes took a
poll of Davidson. students. The poll was
designed to measure the student’s
political affiliations and awareness, their
opinions on current issues, and their
personal backgrounds. The 166 students
interviewed were chosen by a random
alpha number selection. Approximately
equal numbers were picked from’ each
class.

Presidential Preference

The poll asked two questions about
presidential preferences: whom the stu-
dent would like to win the election and
for whom the student intended to vote.
The results of these questions were
different. Thirty-seven percent said they
hoped Reagan would win; 34% Carter;
20% Anderson; and 7% had no
opinion. However, of the top three
candidates, 44% chose Reagan; 46%

Carter; and 10% Anderson. One possible
explanation for the discrepancy is that
51% of the students felt Anderson was
not a viable candidate.
Party Affiliation

Davidson students divided themselves
almost equally among the political
parties: 35% called themselves Demo-
crats; 31% Republicans; 33% Inde-
pendents; and 10% claimed affiliation

. with other parties.

On a conservative-to-liberal scale 33 %
of the students classified themselves as
conservative or leaning that way; 30%
as liberal or leaning that way; and 37%
as moderate.

Interest in Politics

Forty percent of the students said
they were very interested in the 1980
Presidential campaign; 43% were mod-
erately interested; 16% were slightly
interested; and 2% were not at all
interested.

Seventy-nine percent said they would
be willing to work for or contribute to a
political campaign.

Only 17% of students were not
registered to vote, while only 24% of
those eligible to vote did not plan on
voting.

Davidson students showed a lack of
knowledge about Congress. Only 50%
knew both the names and party of their
representative-in Congress, but 71%
could correctly identify which party
controlled each of the houses of Con-
gress.

Issues

Davidson students felt that the three
most important issues today are defense,
the economy, and foreign policy. Forty-
five percent said they were in favor of
increasing defense spending; 28% wan-
tedit to remain at the same level; 24%
wished to see spending cut; and 3% had
no opinion. {

Sixteen percent favored relying exclu-
sively on an all-volunteer army; 63%
preferred a volunteer army along with
cumpulsory draft registration; 4% fa-
vored a peacetime draft; and a surpri-
singly large 15% supported the idea of
mandatory service of some kind in either
civilian or military jobs.

Of those in favor of either registration
or a draft, 71% said that women should
be included.

One question asked students which
problem was worse—unemployment or
inflation. Thirty-seven percent of the
students said government should place
higher priority on inflation; 14% on
unemployment; 34% gave them equal
weight; and 14% had no opinion.

Only 6% of the students favor a °

national health insurance program.
Forty-seven percent of those polled

were in favor of the Equal Rights

Amendment; 25% were opposed; and

28% were uncertain. Thirty-two percent
had positive feelings about the National
Organization for Women (NOW); 55%
were lukewarm; and 13% felt negatively.

A majority (60%) took a moderate
position on the abortion issue, saying
that abortions should sometimes be
permitted by law, while 5% felt that
abortions should never be legal; 28%
that they should never be forbidden by
law; and 7% had no opinion.

Fifty percent of the students felt
positively about organized religion; 38%
were lukewarm; 8% felt negatively, and
4% had no opinion. Only 6% listed
themselves as supporters of the Moral
Majority.

Students{ were divided over how
heavily churches should be involved in
politics. Sixteen percent said churches

should always stay out of politics; 34%
felt they should take stands, but only on

moral issues; 29% favored churches’
taking stands on any issues without
endorsing any particular candidate; 17%
felt that churches should feel free to take
stands or endorse candidates as they see
fit; and 4% expressed no opinion.

The poll showed that 78% of students
have strong negative feelings toward the
Ku Klux, Klan, and only 13% expressed
negative feelings toward the NAACP.

Eighty-nine percent of students felt
that Americans will need to make

_ changes in their lifestyle to cope with the

energy crisis.

Davidson students did not show
strong feelings towards either the Amer-
ican Civil Liberties Union or labor
unions. Fifty-two percent felt ambi-
valent towards the ACLU, as did 55%
towards labor unions.

A majority of Davidson students come
from a suburban, upper-middle class

background. Sixty-seven percent said
they were from suburbia, while 20%
came from an urban and 13% from a
rural environment.

Fifty-two percent of those polled
stated that their family income last year ©
exceeded $30,000; 26% were in the
$20,000 to $30,000 range; 9% between
$10,000 and $20,000; 4% less than
$10,000; and 9% did not know.

Fifty-nine percent of students said
they attended a public high school, while
41% graduated from private schools.

Career Goals
Davidson students’ tend to seek careers
in business, medicine, and law. Twenty-

- four percent said they were interested in,

business; 19% in medicine; and 18% in
law. Also, 9% had plans for work in
government; 1% each for the clergy, the
military, and agriculture; 8% with other
plans; and 19% undecided.

Liberal senators lose student support, election

(CPS) The traditional college student
support for liberal politicians was consi-
derably weaker during the Republican
tidal wave that swept the country
election day, leading some to believe
that the student-liberal coalition that
has helped power most national cam-
paigns since 1960 may at last be dying.

A College Press Service survey of key
campus precincts where the careers of
embattled liberals were in jeopardy
indicates that while student still favored
the old liberals, voter turnouts and
enthusiasms were not as high as during
previous elections.

Nowhere was this more true than at
the University of South Dakota at
Vermillion. George McGovern, the dar-
ling of student liberals during the

seventies, only narrowly beat his chal- —

lenger at two student precincts at that
campus. In one, he edged Republican
Congressman James Abdnor by only 36
votes. In 1974, McGovern whipped his
opponent by more than a 2-1 margin in
the same precinct.

In another, he beat Abdnor by 75
votes. Six years ago he won that
predominantly student area by 165
votes.

Steve Hockett from Mitchell summed
up the anti-McGovern sentiment the
best. .

‘George McGovern is an ultra-liberal
politician of the mold which has badly

hurt our nation,’’ Hockett says. ‘It is a
strong victory that we have finally
removed him and his kind from office.”

And while others said the former
presidential nominee still commanded
their respect and admiration, they
claimed his leftist policies had become
obsolete. Drew Jacobs, a junior from
Vermillion, said he hopes the McGovern
defeat spells the beginning of the end for
liberalism.

“I'd like to think liberalism is dead, or
that it is at least dying,’’ Jacobs says.
“It is time overdue for a change.”’

Those who did vote again for McGov-
ern did not go out’ and campaign
vigorously for his re-election.

“I supported McGovern, but it does-

n’t kill me that he won’t be returning to
the Senate,’’ says Bill Lockhart, a senior
from Sioux Falls. ‘‘A lot of people I
know who like the senator didn’t do
much for him this year.’’
. Similarly, if the downfall of Idaho's
liberal Senator Frank Church can not be
attributed to a lack of student backing,
it seems clear that students at the
University of Idaho at Moscow are not
particularly crushed by his defeat.

Like McGovern, Church still received
a majority of student votes, but many of
those same people did not work hard for
him. The intangible effect of poorer

_ student volunteer efforts for both Mc-

Govern and Church can not be easily

determined, though student enthusiasm
helped them win close contests in the
past.

‘I think the terms of liberal and
conservative have lost their meanings
among students here,’’ says Betsy
Brown, a philosophy major at Idaho. ‘I
don’t think people really care.’’

One liberal congressman who did
survive the Democratic bloodbath was
Arizona Representative Morris Udall.
Yet he did not survive the opposition of
some students at the’ University of
Arizona at Tuscon who believe that he,
like others, has fallen out of step with
reality.

“I basically don’t believe Mo Udall is
in tune with the rest of the country,”
says Kurt Cooper, a freshman. ‘‘He’s an
old left-wing liberal.”

As many students at all three cam-
puses contend, the defeats of Church and
McGovern coupled with Udall’s struggle
do not signal an end to the liberalstudent
coalition. But it is clear that there have
been a number of defections which could
have even more serious implications in
the future. «©

“I think conservatism is gaining
among college students,” says Karen
Jackson, a freshman at the University of
Arizona. ‘The liberal students didn’t
care enough to get involved in this cam-
paign. It might get worse next time.”
