FE DAVIDSONIAN

- Founded 1914 :

Football Non-essential
We all would like to have a good football program.
But we can no longer afford it.

Since a major football program is non-essential at a
small liberal arts school such as Davidson, football must
always be financially suspect. Rampant inflation and
limited fundraising success dictate that the College
eliminate luxuries to keep academics healthy. Close
examination of the problem yields one rational conclu-
sion of what is best for the College as a whole:

_ intercollegiate football must be dropped. The benefits are
small; the costs are great.

‘Inflation is hurting private schools everywhere. Many
small private colleges are expected to fold under the
pressure of rising energy and construction costs,
inadequate faculty and staff compensation, and a
projected decline in the number of high schoo! graduates.

Assuming that Davidson wants to maintain its
academic standards, it has only three defenses against
hard times—more productive fundraising, higher tuition
and fees, or to cut expenditures. Prospects for
fundraising are not promising. Davidson's main fund-
raising campaign, the 1987 program, is just barely
meeting its goals, but they have not been adjusted for
inflation since 1972. Particularly in light of Development
Director Duane Dittman’s recent resignation, along with
two members of his staff, we have no reason to believe
that, success in fundraising will improve.

The College has already been forced to raise tuition and
fees $575 this year alone. Should this trend continue,
Davidson will be in even more danger of becoming a
school for the rich and will have trouble attracting.
qualified applicants from a decreasing pool of high
school graduates.

Practically all College programs are already operating
at subsistence level. Minor sports budgets will not be
raised to compensate for inflation and almost all minor
sports coaches maintain that even last year’s budgets
were inadequate. According to the latest Update the
College is unable to make needed improvements in its
heating and cooling system because of lack of funds.
-_.And the principle component of a Davidson education,
the faculty, has been hit hardest of all. Faculty salaries
have dropped against inflation every year since 1966. As a
result, faculty morale and confidence in the administra-
tion’s priorities has been steadily dropping, and some of
Davidson’s most respected faculty members, such as
Drs. Avinger, Young, and Davies have decided to secure
employment elsewhere.

In light of all these financial difficulties, a $249,000
(1979 fiscal year) expenditure on football is unjustifiable.
Unfortunately, moving to Division Ill competition would
not significantly affect the program’s budget. Football
has its benefits, but the College must put education first.

Football does. give the College publicity. However,
such publicity comes in the wrong area and in ineffective:
amounts. Davidson’s reputation is that of a high quality
educational institution, not of a football power. And a
Division I-AA team cannot attract widespread attention
no matter how successful it is.

The football program also encourages a more diverse
student body. However, the admissions department can
select diverse classes with or without football players’

applications. Furthermore, admissions standards for.

football recruits and other athletes are lower than the
standards for most applicants. This inequity means that
some non-athletes might be turned away while equally or
less qualified athletes are admitted.

Football is supposed to motivate alumni giving.
However, elimination of the football program would not
necessarily entail a great loss of income. Neither
Marquette (in 1961) nor the University of Bridgeport )in
1974) suffered after they dropped football (See Davidson-

_ian, April 25). Besides, the College should not allow a few
sports-minded alumni to dictate the continuation of a
Pere HES Mite the: ancck-an Bwhole,

Economic conditions threaten every aspect of the
Davidson experience, particularly academics. In order to.
maintain its standards, the College must cut its
Lara pees: Football must go.

be. —Mark Barrett

76 WS

| THE ene

TALKING A Bon
TIMMY? /

KR "ME DEER Pose 80

The Campus Forum

No Nukes

To the Editor:

Last Thursday I traveled to
Washington D.C. to attend an
anti-nuclear protest and lobby-
ing effort sponsored by The
Coalition For A Non-Nuclear
World. Now having returned to

Davidson I am more concerned --

than ever about the potential
dangers of a nuclear energy
policy and the dangers of con-
tinued apathy on the part of the
Davidson community.
Although non-nuclear senti-
ment seems to be growing, our
government still advocates and
pursues a pro-nuclear policy.
The 95th and 96th Congresses
defeated proposals to place
moratoriums on construction of
nuclear reactors and waste dis-
posal sites. Presently there are
87 nuclear plants in the U.S.
and by 1985 that figure is
expected to climb to 139.
These developments are a-
larming for several reasons.
Historically nuclear power has
proved to be anything but the
“safe, clean, and cheap’’ energy
source the proponents of the
1950’s claimed it to be. At
Browns Ferry, Alabama, an
electrical fire knocked out the
circuits controlling the water
level of the coolant necessary to
prevent a meltdown. Only by
the grace of God was a major

nuclear catastrophe averted. |

Earlier this year a spill at
Crystal River contaminated
fish, wildlife, and vegetation in
the area. And from 1958 to 1975
twenty single-walled carbon
steel tanks used to store nuclear
waste leaked 430,000 gallons of
high-level waste into the ground
at the Hansford Military Reser-
vation in Washington.

A lot of the apathy surround-
ing nuclear power springs from
ignorance of the deleterious
effects of radiation. Radiation
comes in three forms: gamma,
beta, and alpha particles. Gam-
ma rays may penetrate clothing
and skin. Beta and alpha parti-
cles are called low level radia-
tion and can be absorbed
through inhalation or ingestion.
All particles are dangerous.

There is no such thing as

receiving your quota of adia-

tion for a year. Radiation is
additive, meaning that once it
enters the body it is there to
stay and will not pass out of
your body like other wastes.

‘Everyone on earth is constantly

exposed to ‘‘background radia-
tion” from sun rays penetrating
the atmosphere and natural
presence of uranium, radon, and
radium in the ecosphere. Scien-
tists agree that radiation has
detrimental mutagenic and car-
cinogenic effects for the human
race.

If nuclear power is to be
accepted as a viable energy
alternative, then it has to 100%
safe from meltdowns, leakages,
waste disposal problems, gener-
ic defects in reactors, and
human error. Waste is currently
handled in two ways: it is either
dumped in the ocean or carted
off to sites on land called
““pools’’ and buried. Waste con-
tainers are subject to corrosion
from the nitric acid in the waste
solution, and from the chemical
reactions that take place in the
ocean. No land routes of dispo-
sal are free from sabatoge or
accidents that might occur
while in transit. Furthermore,
400-500 pounds of plutonium is
produced each year by each of
our 87 reactors, and thus,
logically we will run out of space
to bury it, and with more waste,
the chance of leakage i increases.

Perhaps my major beef a-
gainst nuclear power rests in

the eternal inability to safe-

guard against human error.
Reactors and waste systems are
designed, built, and operated
by men, and it does not matter
how failsafe the technology
claims to be, Murphy’s Law
always will apply. I urge you as
responsible members of society
to write your Congressman and
express your feeling of anger
over a continuing pro-nuclear
policy. Specifically , tell him/her
to oppose S. 2189, Nuclear
Waste Policy Act which is the
utilities’ answer to “solving”
the waste problem. Tell your
congressman to support a mor-
atorium on construction along
with an eventual phasing out of
nuclear power. This is a risk
that we do not need to take.
Fred M. Goodwin, 11180

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper’s office on the third
floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published
weekly in the academic year
(except during holidays and
examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College.
Mailing address: P.O. Box 218,
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Tele-
phone: 892-2000, extension
148. Subscription rate: $8.00
per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Second
class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C.

Although people are in and
dut~of the office practically all
day, the editor maintains regu-
lar office hours of 3 to 4 Monday
and Tuesday afternoons.

