October 24, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

EPC Recommendations For A Core Curriculum

Editor's Note. Following are excerpts
Jrom the Report of the Educational
Policy Committee Concerning a Propo-
posed Core Curriculum” released Tues-
day [see article on page 1). The proposals
require faculty approval. If the faculty
approves then by February, the new
requirements will first affect the cluss of
1980. Interested students can attend the
open meeting with the EPC next
Wednesday at 10 a.m. in’ Perkins
wuditoriuan,

Members of the EPC Jor Uie pertod in
which the report teas composed [1979-s0|
were Frank Bliss, HW. Alden Bryan,
Cynthia Grant, dottn Whelton, Bengamun
Alon, bedtward Palaver, Haliam Walker,
Locke White, Jr, Elicabeth Medlin,
Bill Purcell, Guy Winker, and T.C. Price

Zimmermann.

Introduction

The Educational Policy Committee’s
report and recommendations result from
a year’s study. Most of the material was
developed by a continuing subcommit-
tee, whose reports were discussed and
revised by the entire committee. During
the year the subcommittee solicited
observations and suggestions from
chairmen of departments most affected
by the recommendations. The committee
met with many of these chairmen and
with other members of the faculty.

While the committee feels that its
recommendations are significant ones, it
is not proposing sweeping changes in the
nature of the Davidson educational
experience. Rather, the committee has
sought to state clearly what it believes to
be the generally accepted educational
goals of the College and then to propose
revisions in the curriculum which it
believes will achieve them more fully.
Throughout its discussions the commit-
tee has had two considerations in mind:
first, to promote learning as the principle
goal of college life, both in the
classroom and outside it; and second, to

establish a clear and rational structure of.

requirements whose relationship to
broad College goals will be understood
clearly both by the students who must
meet them and by the faculty members
who design the courses that fulfill them.
While the contents and methods of the
various disciplines vary widely, the
committee believes that there can and
should be a conceptual unity with regard
to the interrelationships of these disci-
plines as components of a general
education aimed at producing and
equipping educated leaders and citizens
of this country and of the world.

The goals of education include the
acquisition of skills, knowledge, and
values. Constructing an educational
program creates an inevitable tension
between the academic view that learning
is justified for its own sake, and the
demands of society that students be
equipped to perform their future roles.
Despite each institution’s own formula-
tion of its educational goals, examina-
tion of Davidson's Statement of Purpose
and of those of a number of other
colleges and universities reveals
substantial. agreement on many of the
general goals of .a college education. In
accordance with the traditions of David-
son and in harmony with the educational
philosophy of many other liberal arts
institutions, the Educational Policy
Committee believes that the liberally
educated person should have:

1. The skills and interest to be
continually self-educating;

2. The habits of self-discipline neces-
sary for effective action and thought;

3. The ability to think clearly and to
communicate effectively in speech and in
writing;

4. A critical appreciation of the ways

in which knowledge is acquired and
applied, and an understanding of the
aims and methods of the disciplines in
which knowledge is organized; __

5. The ability to recognize and
appreciate the aesthetic aspects of life, in
the natural world and in human crea-
tions;

6. The habits and skills which contri-
bute to thé maintenance of physical
health and vigor;

7. A critical perspective on one’s own
culture, its historical development, and
its influence @n oneself;

8. An awareness of the pluralism in
our world and familiarity with other
cultures, including non-Western ones;

9. The capacity to make informed
value judgments; and the ability to cope
with the ambiguities which beset all
action and choice;

10. The ability to construct and
maintain a personal moral/ethical posi-
tion;

11. The motivation, as a major
element of self-fulfillment, to contribute
to the welfare of others through leader-
ship and service.

Some of these goals are met through
the academic program, others through
the institutions of campus life. Of the
former, some are met through major
requirements, others through the stu-
dent’s choice of electives, and still others
through distribution requirements.
While our present area requirements
guarantee some breadth and diversity,
the committee has concluded that they
are too diffuse to guarantee the achieve-
ment of certain other basic objectives.

Elizabeth Medlin
The committee is particularly concerned
that the present area requirements do
not guarantee students a systematic
introduction to methods of thought and
analysis in the principle groupings of the
various academic disciplines.

Recommendations

The committee recommends a set of
core requirements to replace current
area, composition, and language require-
ments. The core has two parts: a set of
competency requirements in composi-
tion, mathematics, and foreign lan-
guage; and a set of distribution require-
ments. These distribution requirements
are similar to the current area require-
ments, but the committee recommends
greater specificity regarding which
courses satisfy the requirements. One
advantage of greater specificity is that
students will be more likely to bring a
common background of knowledge and
experience to upper-level courses. The
committee intends that courses taken to
satisfy the distribution requirements be
broad, systematic introductions to as-
sumptions, methods, and subject mat-
ters of the particular disciplines, as well
as their relationships to other disci-
plines. Such courses should not only
prepare students for further course

Students may be spending more time in the language lab if the EPC has its way.

work but, even more importantly,
should equip them for continuing self-
education. In order to meet certain
objectives of the core some new courses
may be necessary and others may need
revision.

Competency Requirements

To prepare students to achieve the
goals of the curriculum the committee
believes that everyone should have basic
competencies in the use of the English
language, in mathematics, and in a
foreign language.

The composition requirement is satis-
fied by passing a course in English
composition or by making a combined
score of 1300 on the SAT Verbal and
CEEB English Achievement Tests.

The mathematics literacy requirement
is satisfied by passing any mathematics
course or by achieving specific scores on
tests designated by the Mathematics
Department.

The foreign language requirement is
satisfied by completing the fourth term
of a foreign language sequence at
Davidson. Up to three terms of the
foreign language requirement may be
satisfied by achieving an appropriate
score on a language proficiency examina-
tion, as determined by the department
involved. Academic credit will not be
allowed for the introductory level (001)
of a language in which the student has
received two or more years of high school
credit.

Distribution Requirements

In Area I [Literature and the Fine
Arts] students must pass two basic
courses, one of which must be in one of
the fine arts, and one of which must be in
English or American literature.

In Area II [Religion and Philosophy}
students must pass three courses, one of
which must be a basic course in
philosophy, and two of which must be in
religion, including at least one course
concerned primarily with the Christian
faith.

In Area III [Mathematics and
Science] students must pass two courses
one of which must be a basic course in a

natural science. A course taken to

satisfy the mathematics literacy require-
ment may not be used to meet the Area
III requirement.

In Area IV [History and Social
Science] students must pass three
courses, one of which must be a basic
Western history survey course, one of
which must be a basic economics course,

(David McCurry)

and one of which must be a basic course
in anthropology, political science,
psychology, or sociology.

In Area V [Non-Western Studies]
students must pass one course from a
list of approved non-Western courses.
The course may also satisfy a require-
ment for another area.

The Educational Policy Committee,
after consultation with appropriate de-
partments, will recommend to the facul-
ty which courses will satisfy distribution
requirements. The committee antici-
pates that in some cases existing courses
will suffice, but that it will be necessary
in other cases to revise existing courses
or to introduce new ones.

The committee believes that the
Humanities program accomplishes many
of the goals of the proposed core. We
recommend, therefore, that completion
of two years of Humanities satisfy the
following six core requirements:

1. Composition

2. One literature (Area I)

3. Two religion or one philosophy and.
one religion (including a course dealing
with the Christian faith) (Areal V)

4. One Western history and one’

anthropology, political science, psych-
ology, or sociology (Area IV)
Thus, a student completing the two-year
Humanities course will be able to
complete the core requirements by
passing in addition the following:

1. Mathematics literacy

2. Foreign language

(See Text, page 8}

Bill Purcell
