THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Founded 1914

“Gtizen of the World?

Hodding Carter's speech Monday night was, another
example of the misguided obsession with power and
national pride that colors mych American foreign-policy
and which seems to be ingrained in much of the American
consciousness.

.Mr. Carter spoke almost exclusively about America’s
‘dominant position in the world and how Jimmy Carter's
administration has maintained it. He seemed to view the
world solely as a stage for the conflict. between America
and Russia. When he did mention the existence of
non-aligned nations, he mentioned them only in relation
to America’s struggle with Russia. And most disturbing,
he spoke of the Carter administration’s efforts toward
“managing the conflict” as as if no one had any desire to
end it at alt.

it is hard to rationally. question: a the Soviet Union is
our adversary in many fields and must be treated as such.
Yet diplomacy could and should be much more than
merely choosing sides for two opposing teams of allies.
The United States should not heighten the conflict by
attempting to sway other countries to its side merely for
its own selfish interests. We must shed our national

chauvinism and work to allow. ations to maintain their -

neutrality.

This all-encompassing power struggle has also caused
us to lose sight of our ideals. Witness our support of the
unpopular dictators Park Chung Hee of Korea, the Shah
of Iran, Nguyen van Thieu-of South Vietnam, and
Anastazio‘Somoza of Nicaragua. In all of these cases our
concern was with power, not democracy. __

Mr. Carter’s exposition of the dichotomy between
American and Russia. completely ignored an equally
important division in the worid—that between the rich

and the poor. The developed nations aggrandize a large

majority of the world’s natural resources although they
contain a decided minority of its population. The United
States alone accounts for approximately one-third of
yearly world consumption of natural resources, yet
contains only about 8% of the world’s population.
Meanwhile, roughly one-fourth of the world goes hungry.
We wallow in Juxury; they wallow in deprivation.

Mr. Carter rambled on and on about America’s efforts
tos democracy and human rights but he forgot to
_ mention the idea of spreading our wealth also. It means
very little for the United States to stand up for the civil
liberties of someone dying of starvation. The right to vote
is of no use to a dead man.

if we are really concerned about our fellow man, we will
try to feed him and teach him to feed himself, not merely
attempt to remake his government in our own image.
America has a great political heritage from which to offer
help to developing nations, but it also has a great
storehouse of wealth which it could share. This
dichotomy between the rich and the poor reflects badly
on America’s image of itself as a nation with conscience
and alienates underdeveloped nations which Mr. Carter
seemed to regard as so important in the struggle for
power and prestige.

We would not maintain that the Carter administration is
totally unconcerned for the world’s poor and starving. Yet
when one of its top spokesmen fails to mention the
problem whatsoever in a speech ostensibly about the
major issues in American foreign policy,it is cause for
very serious concern. We must treat the world’s poor as
human beings, not pawns.

UT Should Respect Death

We strongly deplore the University of Tennessee’s
decision to remove the dead animal art from its art
building. (See “Several furry little animals dead,” page 8).
Tennessee’s ‘Art Department Chairman Donald Kurka

justified the decision to eradicate thé exhibits by saying -

“tT assume it was someone’s idea of art. It’s not mine,
though.”

Such intolerance cannot. be. tolerated. The. removal
constitutes a violation. of artistic and academic. freedom
as well as the sanctity of a corpse. Leave the dead alone.

—WMark Barrett

—Mark Barrett.

: ial en |

The Campus Forum

Ensembles
To the Editor:
As a member of the Davidson
‘community who enjoys the
College musical events, may I
congratulate all members of the

. wind and brass ensembles and

their director on a superb and
exciting concert Tuesday even-
ing. It has been gratifying to
watch the growth. of thege
ensembles and their develop-
ment in performance under the
direction of Dr. Lawing.
Marjorie M. McCutchan

directed; our experiences are
challenging, frustrating, and
ultimately quite meaningful.
The beautiful scenery, intrigu-
ing people, and tasty tropical
fruit only make life more enjoy-
able. All of us have made
life-long friends we shall regret
to leave, ie., if you are interest-
ed in the work, you should see
the tallest man in the Union
basement — unless Jamie Hall is
working in the Student Store.
Ps. You can escape the dreary
Davidson winter, and perhaps
the Draft.

Retired College Librarian Glen Darbyshire ‘79
Thanks From Kenya Bill McGavock
To the Editor: To the Editor: :
Jambo! The recent death of Bill
On behalf of the Davidson McGavock has prompted me to

alumni teaching in Kenya, I
write to thank the students and
staff of our alma matér and the
Y-Service Corps for the $880 we
received recently. Although
news of a declining dollar and
soaring gold prices occasionally
passes our way, Kenyans still
covet George Washington for
more than his honesty. The
Humes. student on a tight
budget knows how the volun-
teer in a struggling self-help
school feels as he begs, borrows,
and borrows without returning
the required books. Fortunately
a set of books for a secondary
school student costs only
around $15, which now in the
States might procure two com-
position books, a Bic fine point,
and your choice from Pepper-
idge Farm’s ‘‘Distinctive Cook-
ie Line.”

We shall divide the money
among the seven Davidson
volunteers teaching in Kenya’s
Western Province. The schools
vary considerably in their stage
of development, but no one will
have much trouble finding a
worthy project to complete.

The ‘‘Davidson Connection”
in Kenya is unusual in its

' strength and consistency. Few

colleges in America can: claim

equal percentages of students —

engaging in development work,
and the personal ties between
the college and specific Kenyan
schools which grow year by year
distinguishes Davidson's con-
nection from vatious govern-
ment programs.

Our work is largely self-

reflect upon my relationship
with this extraordinary man
and his contribution to the
North Carolina Fellows Pro-
gram.

When ‘Dr. Mac”’ suffered a
stroke ten years ago, he was the
Director of NCFP, a duty he
had performed for approxi-
mately three years. In addition,
he carried a full teaching load,
served as Chairman of the Math
Department, served on various
faculty committees and was, for
many years, one of the most

‘influential and respected mem-

bers of the faculty at a. time
when it played the predominant
role in governing the academic
and student affairs of the
College.

His involvement with the
NCFP is an interesting reflec-
tion of his life and greatness as
aman. The NCFP was founded
in 1966 by the Richardson
Foundation for the purpose of
developing the leadership
potential of selected college
students. The proimary means
of fulfilling this mandate were
envisioned to be (1) summer
internships, (2) the personal
influence of the Director and
other Program Advisors, (3)
and the interaction of the

one year and resigned. His
resignation left the program in a

, Precarious position: its value

was still unproven, and it was
increasingly clear that a strong,
active Director would be neces-
sary to give the program a fair
test.

Given Bill McGavock’s re-
cognized leadership at David-
son College, it is not surprising
that Greer Martin, the Presi-
dent of the College, recom-
mended Bill as the next Direc-
tor. ——

Prior to accepting the posi-
tion, Bill McGavock inter-
viewed each of the students in
the program at that time. I am
convinced that his decision to
become the Director was the
resulty of the students’ enthus-
iasm and need, coupled with the
opportunity for him to serve in
another creative way.

For the next three years—
until his stroke—Dr. McGa-
vock served without equal as

(See McGavock, page 11)

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper's office on the third
floor of the College Union.

Mark Barrett
Editor

Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Sheri Gravett, Executive Editor

Blizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, NM Ei
Aida Doss, Features Editor
Tim Dwight, Qpinions Edi
Van Beck, Sports Editor
Jeff Herrin, Backpage Editor

