October 10, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

The Biggest Change Was In The Dog Population

Mike Mason

I am ceaselessly amazed at the
profound changes the town of Davidson
has apparently undergone during the
past summer. These months of cultural
explosion have brought some really epic
urban developments to this growing
metropolis. For instance, we how have
our very own pack of campus carnivores,
who unfortunately are only ‘too pleased
to leave constant reminders of their
presence in every conspicuous place.

While no one is sure how the canine
colloquium got on campus, there are
rumors that they are in reality exchange
students from Lapland who are merely
having a little trouble adjusting to
American life. After all, they do attend
classes regularly and are seen at every
social function, and nobody can fault the
amount of work they put into keeping

More
Campus
Forum

Thanks From the Y

To the Editor:

The Y Service Corps would. like to
thank everyone who made its annual
fund drive a tremendous success. Sur-
passing last year’s total, this year’s
drive collected over $1800 with 477
students and 67 faculty members contri-
buting. Special thanks also goes to all
those who worked to contact people for
the drive as more students participated
this year than in the past.

The Y appreciates everyone’s support.
in this effort and invites anyone who
thinks he might be interested in the Y to
talk to any Y member. The Y. has
something to offer almost everyone at
any level of commitment you want.

Again, thanks for your support.

Jeff Dempsey *83

Bravo Randall Stroud

To the Editor:

We wish to express our gratitude to
Mr. Randall Stroud for his fine work
concerning the true nature of the
questions surrounding this Presidential
election. Instead of the usual trivial and
negative comments concerning the indi-
vidual candidate, Mr. Stroud has treated
the issues in an orderly and thorough
manner. Instead of mere conjecture, he
uses quality, unbiased sources such The
Wall Street Journal. We conclude, as
does Mr. Stroud, that four more years of
Mr. Carter’s administration could bring
on end to free society as we know it
today.

William Simon, in the epilogue of A
Time For Truth, states our philosophy
more eloquently:

So here we are. We have become a
nation of abdicators—abdicating the
education of our children to an army of
social reformers; abdicating the incredi-
ble productivity of the free market to
redistributionist zealots; abdicating our
hopes for old age to a computer that
spits and government checks worth less
and less in real dollars with each passing
month. Weary of vigilance, we are
abdicating our very right to govern. And
thus we leave a terrible vacuum in which
government grows.”

Yes, truly depressing.

With great hopes for the future. _

Elliot Stotler ‘82
Charles Dougias *82

George S. Thompson '84

the campus green and beautiful. So if
you see one at a party, sitting off by
himself, drooling in a corner, go over and
say “hello”, and talk about something
the two of you have in common.

But that isn’t the only advancement
this progressive community has seen.
Davidson has opened its new ultra-
modern shopping complex, replete with
a bewildering assortment of three stores.
Sentell Dorm got (gasp!) new lino-
leum on the floors. And campus security
got new buggies with which to track

_ down and accost dangerous rodents.

But aren’t we moving too fast? Some
would argue that in such rapid progres-
sion, Davidson has lost its touch with
reality —the reality of the 1930's, that is.
After all, if we were to make a major
change, such as increasing student
enrollment, it could only mean that
everybody would go on drugs at the first
possible opportunity. And what should
happen if we actually admitted more—
dare we say it— minorities? Obviously all
our heritages would be tainted forever,

our kids would be genetic freaks, and not
one of us would ever smell clean again.

So how open to change is a community
where it takes an Act of God to get
doggy-doo cleaned out of the hall? As I
was returning to school, driving along in
that semi-conscious, half-aware state
only a twenty mile yellow stripe can
induce, a vision appeared before me, I
had taken a different way back, and
suddenly before me was a huge billboard
on which was inscribed in golden letters,
‘“‘WELCOME TO THE LAND OF
ETERNAL GOODNESS (Border check,
500 ft.)’’ Figuring that I had merely
stumbled onto the cult headquarters of
the Order of Saintly Armadillos in Heat,
I was pulled over by a severe person in
official garb who stuck his head in my
window and said, ‘‘Lookin’ fer the Land
o’ Goodness?”

‘Hell no,” I replied, ‘I was headed for
Davidson.”

“Suddenly I am the recipient of a look
more severe than usual.

“Watch that kind o’ language, son,”
the guard said. ‘‘We don't ‘low that
sorta stuff here. Davidson's ‘round the
corner, smarty, an’ you got to get
inspected here to get in.”

‘‘Come on, Davidson's a religious
school, but—,’’ I started to say.

Guard: ‘‘No ‘buts’. Those pimples
yers? They ain't good.”

I: “Uh, no, I borrowed them, and I'll
send ‘em back first chance I get. Listen,
this has never happened before. . .”

Guard: ‘Yeah? Well you ain’t never
come this way before. You approve o’
perverts, commies, hippies, or weirdos?”’

I: ‘‘Well, no.’’ (although, I know
several nice perverts.)

Guard: ‘‘Good, sign this Statement of
Purpose. Now, you got any o’ that New
Wave crud?”

After an exhaustive search, I was
finally permitted to enter, and my
attention snapped back to the endless
yellow line.

Maybe Davidson's virtue lies in its
local isolation, but I am tempted to
believe that we suffer an isolation more
profound than our physical one. And
whether this latter form is as virtuous as
the former is up to our collective
judgment. Both people and places grow

_ with pain; thank God for our few

masochistic tendencies.

Mike Mason is a sophomore.

Congress And The Faculty”

Bill Purcell

The expulsion of U.S. Representative
Michael Myers from Congress last week
is not too unlike the Trustee’s denial of
tenure to three faculty members in the
spring of ‘79—both were uncommon
events. In 1861 Congress did suspend
three of its members for joining the
Confederacy; sometimes it seems.as long
since tenure was denied at Davidson.

Certainly the offices of the Capitol are
marred by a few individuals who should
not be there, but why allow them to
stay? Alcoholism is common, there will
be more to come from Abscam, more
Wilbur Mills’, more scandals. More
reprimands? If the established precedent
is followed it will be quite a while.

When one’s colleagues single out an
individual for misbehavior or misper-
formance of his job, it should be
regarded as a strong signal to improve.
When one’s employer does likewise the
cue to improve is even stronger. But
when signals come so rarely, when

incompetence is allowed to run uncheck-
ed, the signals have little impact and are
seldom even remembered.

It is not fair to compare our faculty
with our national legislature, however:
certainly we don’t have such rascals at
Davidson! But if our true complaint
against some of our legislators is that
they possess flaws in character that
prevent them from performing their jobs
credibly, then it is an appropriate
analogy. Even at Davidson there are
individuals who are simply not good

- teachers, just as there are legislators

who are not good Congressmen or
Senators.
Unfortunately, most of the Davison
community has little influence in mat-
ters of tenure. When a tenure decision is
made, it is handed down, forced on us. If
tenure is granted to one who should not
have received it, we choke on a bone that
we could have removed if we'd been
asked. Fortunately for the American

public they do have a voice: a vote can
tenure the good, remove the bad.
Disturbingly, they may have disabled
our attempt to gain similar input.
Talmadge and Jenrette were both victor-
ious in their party’s most recent prim-

ary. |

The Capitol houses the highest law-
making body in the land, an almost
sacred institution. Still we bestow
membership in this honorable assembly
on incompetent and corrupt individuals.
Worse still we allow them to stay.

For many of us, Davidson is a
semi-sacred residence as well. Here we
expect to find the best, and to produce
the best. We mar her reputation and flaw

‘her product when we allow incapable

individuals to remain on her faculty. Let
us continue to be selfish with our
rewards so we won't become burdened

with tenured Jenrettes and ‘

Bill Purcell is a junior.
