Nocturnal
Admissions

Mike Mason

_One of the most prominent nightmares
in my repertoire of bizarre and unhealthy
dreams is a recent addition, brought on
by recent circumstances, but it has
already caused me more grief than most
of my other ephemeral terrors combined.
It has sucessfully plagued me for five
consecutive nights, caused me to yell
twice, and under its influence I once
attempted osmosis with a quilted bed-
spread.

It goes like this: I am alone’in my
dorm room and am getting up to take a
shower after a night of deep slumber.
Suddenly the door bursts open, and an
eager; clean lad hurls himself through
the door at me screaming, “Please, tell
me about Davidson! I know you know,
and I'll never leave until I hear
everything. Please I’m from New Jersey
and there’s no other hope!” I ‘quickly
evade his grappling paws, and escape
into the hall, only to discover that it. is
filled with an immense herd of prospec-
tive students. They see me, and ted on
by some tennis recruit from Korea, they
corner me by the window and drill me
with questions, but there are too many,
and I can’t answer fast enough.
Suddenly, one pushes his way through
the crowd, and clutching my shirt, says,
“Please, sir, if I but touch the hem of
your button-down, I too may under-
stand self-selection.’’ This is too much,
and as I cry, ‘‘Find out for yourselves!,”’
I push my way through the crowd into
the bathroom, and once inside I lock the
doors and prop chairs against the
handles. I breathe easier now, and am
just beginning to relax when I notice the
lid of the commode being quietly lifted,
and from within a horrible torso slowly
rises. Beneath a mop of dripping hair, its
bloodshot eyes focus on me and gleam,
and its arm rises nearer, and nearer
towards me, as a terrible voice intones,
“What...is...Honor System?”’ I crumple
in a heap...

At about this point I wake up in a cold
sweat (hard to do with the heat in our
room), and discover that I am sleeping in
a dresser drawer. After the last occur-
ence of this mental miscarriage, I
decided. to seek a cure;'and I sallied forth
to the admissions office in order to dis-
cover exactly what it is about prospec-
tive students that throws such’ turmoil
into my otherwise catatonic somnolence.

After engaging in the correct rituals
(ie., going up to the desk and asking), I
was finally allowed to see the great
Admissions Ragu, who informed me that
my dreams were but premonitions of the
future. Timorously, I asked the Ragu to
be more specific, whereupon he enlight-
ened me with several perceptions. For
instance, he revealed that the kid from
New Jersey represented Davidson's
growing efforts to draw from the
Northeast and to expand it’s reputation
there. “‘Ohhhh.” I intelligently replied,
.for I was much impressed. ‘‘But what of
the crowd and the empty bathroom?”
These, it turns out, are pictures of what
has been (people flocking to davidson)
and what will be (not so many flocking to
Davidson) as the number of possible
students dramatically decreases.

‘But Ragu,’’ I cried, ‘‘what will
become of Davidson’s much bally-hooed
academic standards, if it is forced to
increase its recruitment activity?”

(See Nightmares; page 11)

Mike Mason is a freshman.

The Faculty

ls Getting Poorer

Robert Manning

There is no easy or graceful way to get
into this article. It deals with money;
specifically, the salaries that Davidson
pays to those of us who teach here.

Those salaries are the primary topic of,

conversation at many faculty gatherings
these days, and to see why, consider a
few of the findings of this year’s salary
study, conducted by the local chapter of
the American Association of University
Professors:

— Over the last decade, Davidson facul-
ty salaries have declined about 10%.in
real (non-inflated) dollars;

—The average salary at Davidson, in
1979-80, is about $800 Jess than the
average family income in Mecklenburg
County was in 1978;

— The typical Assistant Professor at

,Davidson was paid less well than a
*typical drafter or electronics technician

in Mecklenburg County, and only $166
better than the average auto mechanic
during the same:period.

If you find these statistics shocking or
depressing, you're not alone. Most of us
feel the same way. Moreover, evidence is
mounting that only action by the faculty
as a whole, as opposed to individual

appeal,can reverse the trend of the: last,

decade.

What do these statistics mean for
individual families at Davidson? First, it
should be observed that not all faculty
members feel the same economic.'pinch
for the same reason. Senior professors,
for example, are given retirement pay
based on their average salaries over :the
final years of their careers. For them, the.
promise of continued inflation demands
that these salaries be as high as possible,
in order to avoid marked decreases in
living standards in the future. Faculty
members whose children are in college
are given tuition subsidies of up to 70%
of Davidson's tuition per child annually,
and were at Davidson when housing
loans at annual interest rates of 4.5%

were available. Yet, with Davidson’s
annual fee headed towards $6000, and
with other similar institutions following

suit, salaries are still stretched thin.
But no group is more catastrophically
effected by Davidson’s salary squeeze
than the Instructors and Assistant
Professors, those who, for the most part,
came to Davidson in the seventies.
These younger professors have no chil-
dren of college age. Rather, most are
struggling to raise families in an era
when home mortgages generally run to ,
12% or more (the College will subsidize
these up to 2%), when taxes and Social

, Security eat up to one-third of their

gross salaries, and when, as a result,
most of them find saving impossible. For
such people, there seems little financial
appeal in remaining in college teaching.
It is only fair to note that pe cay
faculty salaries are a national reality. A
recent study in the New Republic
(December 1, 1979, p. 21) shows that
salaries for college professors dropped
7.1% in real dollars during the period
1967-78, while those for blue-collar
workers rose as much as 35% (for
steelworkers) during the same period.
But we ought to observe as well that
salaries at Davidson dropped 13%
during the same period, and have fallen
7% more since then. The sad fact is that
Davidson salaries (or, more precisely,..

compensation figures, which include.

: decade 'just-ended; is 126-140.

annuities, housing grants and the like)
have fallen significantly, relative to

those colleges'and universities with:

which we compete most heavily. for
students and faculty, and with respect to

light, which should not be surprising,
since it simply means that the small
liberal arts college has been everywhere
losing ground to the university. We are
all sinking together, which should give
no one very much comfort.

There remains as well the suspicion
‘that, when preparing our athletic budget
, bapecially that portion spent in rocket-
© ing us towards Top Twenty Basketball),
no comparisons to Amherst and Wil-
liams are ever made. One strongly
suspects tha UCLA and Ohio State form
the basis for comparison here.

What can be done? Here the feeling of
futility among concerned faculty mem-
bers is overwhelming. Annual appeals to
the Board of Trustees for salary in-
creases that merely cover the expected
rise in the cost of living have annually
gone unanswered. The fraction of the
college’s general expenditures given over
to faculty compensation hit an all time
low in 1974°75, when.it reached 36.5%.
Since that time, the values have gone
from 36.5 to 35.6 to 34.9 to 33.7 and, this
year, to 32.6. Reversal of this trend is an
obvious first step. Beyond that should
surély be a re-examination of an athletic

policy that has’ allowed literally millions
of dollars to be spent on a basketball -
program whose.net record, for the

‘And, make no. mistake, the changes.

need to come in a-hurry. Faculty morale
- rds. a8:low as I-can remember it in twelve

years; the number of established. faculty

the set of. colleges and ‘universities ‘in: ‘membérs who have opportunities to

North Carolina. - 3
The Davidson administration does not:

feel that the use of these figures is fair:
and representative, since the comparison

“Veave}:\and ' who: ~are likely to take
“advantage. of: those. opportunities, has
never been’ higher; younger colleagues
are openly considering abandoning

is with larger universities, rather than _ teaching for other careers. And why not?
with colleges of our own: size and Given the kind of salary picture outlined °
intellectual pretentions. It will instead in this article, why would anyone
offer a comparison to Those Colleges concerned with earning even a moderate
With Which We Like To Compare living consider a career in college
Ourselves, colleges like Amherst, teaching?

Swarthmore, Dickinson, Franklin &
Marshall, and of course, Willeams. Such Robert Manning is a Professor of
comparisons show us in a favorable Physics at Davidson.

