THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Start over

It is hard to remember any proposed policy change that
met as strong and unanimous disapproval as have the Ed-

cational Policy Committee’s (EPC) recommendations for —

changing the core curriculum. Professors and students
have criticized the recommendations on both practical
and philosophical grounds, and we must agree that the
recommendations should be scrapped altogether. The
EPC is meeting every week to revise its proposals in light
of faculty and student objections, but we feel the com-
mittee would be better off beginning afresh instead of
trying to rework its fundamentally flawed proposals.

By mandating that students meet most of the course
requirements during their first two years at Davidson, the
EPC would severely limit an underclassman’s ability to
sample courses in departments not teaching required
courses. Thus a student interested in majoring in Art or
Classics, for example, might have to wait a long time to
take enough courses on which to base a decision about
his major.

The EPC’s recommendations would also drastically
increase some departments’ teaching loads at the
expense of smaller departments. Dean Zimmermann has
sald there would be no net additions to the faculty, yet no
professors would be fired just to institute the proposed
system. He feels the change would be handied through
normal turnover in faculty. Yet we question the wisdom of
weakening some of the school’s smaller departments,
and expect such a gradual method of change would result
in a long and inconvenient transition period.

Students would also take more survey or introductory
courses If the EPC had its way. Yet students generally
find Davidson's introductory courses unchallenging and
dull while professors call them tedious and vapid. Upper
level courses and seminars tend to be more productive
and stimulating, yet the EPC would admittedly cut down
on the number and availability of these same courses.

One-major philosophical objection to the EPC’s
recommendations looms as large as these and other
practical considerations combined: the EPC seems to
have assumed that simply because a basic course is
generally worthwhile it should be required. Yet requiring
so many specific courses takes the decision of how to
plan a student’s education out of the hands of those most
qualified to make it—the student and his advisor. What
may be a valuable course for one person may be a
tremendous waste for another. Davidson students have a
variety of interests and we think they should be mostly
free to pursue them instead of being forced into a
common mold.

Besides, we expect most students come here desiring
exposure to the liberal arts and the “common experience”
the EPC wishes to create. The EPC has given us no
reason to believe that students are not getting this
exposure under the present system.

All of which is not to say the EPC’s efforts have been
worthless. We are glad to see the EPC-recognize that our
foreign language Instruction is deficient. We appreciate
the long hours the committee members have spent on the
proposals. Yet we think their time would be better spent if
they started over again.

—Mark Barrett

ig! atulations

| nooks Aeam's: trip to the. national...
, tournament Is. heartening for. several reasons... |

othe:
than good, and. ned toe baronies to: recover rom an:
0-3 start to have.its beqt seaaon ever. ae
Congratulations. :

Merk Barrett

mec n  aee in. the: past >.< Ltr
ie pete Faeaeeaorn be forint -
ence of ‘com-

ae

The Campus Forum

SAE Speakers

To the Editor:

Last Tuesday morning at
about 2 a.m. I was awakened
from sleep by some strange (but
somehow very familiar) noise
invading my window up on 4th
Belk. It was not long before I
realized that I was being forced
to listen to every lyric and
syllable of the beach music
being blasted out of the SAE
speaker across the Court. It was
either listen to that or close the
window and be roasted alive by
our efficient radiator.

Most students on campus,
myself included, like to party
hard until the wee hours of the
morning, but on a weeknight at
Davidson, even if it is the first
one of the term, there should be
some reasonable limit to the
amount of noise one house
generates. Some people have
some studying and sleeping to
get done for the next day. So
even if the SAE’s aren’t con-
cerned with setting good exam-
ples of fraternity living, they
should at least be concerned
with showing some respect for
the rest of the campus.

John Krotchko '83

Death

To the Editor:
It has been brought to my
ever-proper. attention. that

- Death has become an enthrall-.

 sapset. my. tensibilities - so: im-
z :, Moaneely that:I felt I must.speak
The team: proved that. women's. spore caf arouse fe toathat smal faction of ois ae

» Death ix:

about

yan ~

re “ible, Be amase: Dosh aa eoial ‘. i

‘Tn keaponse to this Death’
“ Mania; and: aé'‘an attempt to
’ direct those members. of the
- Elite who feel compelled to

engage in Death in social situa-

tions, I have compiled an
exhaustive volume of edicts to
be consulted when unsure about
matters of proper behavior in
such situation. This volume,
The Everyday Death Etiquette
(Vintage, $18.95), will certainly
become an indispensible refer-
ence book in questions of Death
etiquette for your family
library.

The importance of this pub-
lication may be emphasized by
the following excerpts from my
book:

—In the event that one’s
escort should have the indecen-
cy to expire at a social event, a
letter of apology should be duly
delivered to the hostess. Such
letters of apology must reflect
the formality of the occasion. It
would certainly be gauche to
begin a note following a formal
evening ball: ‘‘Dear Mary, So
sorry Jack kicked during the
foxtrot the other night...’’ This
would assuredly signal the end
of one’s acceptance by Society.
It is in rather better taste to
follow such an embarrassment
with this apology: ‘“‘My Dearest
Mrs. Vandersmith, May I ex-
tend my deepest apologies for
my escort’s ungentlemanly de-
meanor last evening. His em-
barrassing demise on the dance
floor was horrendously. inap-
propriate. I was certainly appal-
led to find him capable of such
indiscretion...” ,

—Never consider dying be-
fore having been formally pre-
sented to the host and hostess.

_ When discussing Death, if
- one. is to be so crude, always.

spell: offensive words.

- Emily Post
Editor's Note: Copies of Miss:
Post's publication are available

through members of the Sigma
Phi chapter of Alpa Chi Epsi-
lon [S.P.A.C.E.] sorority on
campus. Volumes posthumous-
ly autographed are being sold at
slightly higher costs as collect-
or's editions. Requests for
copies may be made by calling
892-6800

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper’s office on the third
floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is publishea
weekly in the academic year
(except during holidays and
examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College.
Mailing address: P.O. Box 218,
Davidson N.C. 28036. Tele-
phone: 892-2000, extension 148.
Subscription rate: $8.00 per
year. Advertising rates availa-
ble on request. Second class
postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

écH:You must die, die witb .

Mark Barrett, Editor ©

Peter Hairston, Business Manager

John Simen, News Editor

: Jeft Herrin, Features Edytor

. Glenn. Kellum, Features Editor
"Sn Crowe, Sports Editor’ .
“Craig White, Sports Editoc.

“Jean Sorsco0, Backpage Editor

Bermadette Walter; Production Associate

