, A

(Gia Partain)

‘What Are We Fightin’ For ?”

Tim Dwight

International events have finally
reached Davidson College. In just one
example on campus, nearly eighty
students crowded around the small
Union television to watch Carter call for
the resumption of peacetime draft regi-
stration. Since the announcement, stu-
dents have been talking about what they
might do if they are drafted. This dis-
cussion has not delved into many tough
questions. It is as if everything we might
have learned from our last war has
simply passed right through. -

We seem to have forgotten all the
lessons of Vietnam except one. We
remember that if you are lucky enough,
smart enough, or rich enough, you can
avoid the draft. You can go to graduate
school. You can go into the clergy. You

can go into medicine. You can pretend to”

be gay. You can go insane. You can
prove you are a conscientious objector.
Or you can buy your way out: Even if
none of these ways work, after you are
drafted you can avoid actual fighting in
many other ways. (Joining the marching
band, becoming an ambulance driver, for
example.)

In other words, a war often creates a
large group of people who are not in jail,
who have not fled the country, (and
many of whom work inside the Armed
Forces), but who don’t support the war.

A war also creates another, smaller
group of citizens. These people have
chosen to make a personal stand against
the war. Hither they have refused to be
inducted and have gone te jail or, they
have broken with this country altogether
and have started their lives anew in
another. This much smaller group is a
tiny minority and therefore wields nc
power. .

Why don’t those in the larger group,
who don’t support:the war either, take a
public stand? Because “‘it will not do any
good.”’ or “it won't change anything.”’
id- make up the bulk of the

fichting age population luring the last

war. If this large group of passive .

non-supporters had spoken out from the
beginning, there would have been no
Vietnam War:. :

But to fight under a yoke is easier
than to fight of your own free will. under
someone else’s care, you don’t have to
ask yourself tough questions like: Can I
support this war? or What is my govern-
ment doing? You simply obey, leaving
questions like that up to experts. To
stand-up and say no when everyone else

‘is saying yes runs against human

nature. »

‘Even so, no crowds are saying yes yet.
Draft registration is not yet the draft
and we aren't fighting a war. If we do go
to war, it will be either to contain the
Soviets and/or to preserve our links to
Middle East oil. These reasons are
unquestioned by most foreign policy
analysts and decision-makers. They
dori’t think about other ways of seeing

“the situation: What if the Soviet Union

is not out to take over the world? or Why
aren’t we working like mad to extract
ourselves from petroleum? (Read a few

magazines and see if they deal with these —

question&s.) A field of vision which
doesn’t permit questions like these is
dangeréus:: -

Unfortwnately, this damage is rarely
noticed partly, because Carter’s speeches
are very .superficial. They sound like
commersaials; telling us to buy our
government’s policies, urging us to
‘‘meet the challenges’’ it directs us
toward, advising us to “‘use our cou-
rage” in those meetings.

Carter declared last week that our
‘number one specific goal’ is ‘‘to protect
the short-term and long-range interests
of the’ United States.’’ This statement
could be used to justify any action
whatsoever. And when we hear state-
ments like “There is nothing for nothing
anymiore’’ come slowly and deliberately
trom nis

mouth, we agree, but wonder,

“so what?

.war in South Wi

’s speeches tell us nothing, but
one we can be sure of: If we fight a
Asia, we will again
show that ‘‘the in of our country”’
means preserving American control over

events in countries on the other side of.

the globe, however misguided ‘and
unwanted that control may be. Preserv-
ing control is not only an impossible
delusion of a narrow military mind, but
also a stupid goal.

When most speak of the lessons of
Vietnam (or used to speak of them), they
refer, not to the destruction of one people
by another, but to the social upheaval it
produced in our country, We prefer to
forget a movie as immediate and painful
as Apocalypse Now, which shows how
our carelessness with our power killed
people mindlessly. We are moved more
by the selfishness and racism of The
Deer Hunter, whose message reads,
‘War is bad for our boys.”

Before-endangering your life and
killing other people, you should think
about what your government is doing
and whether you can support it body and
soul. Who could imagine a more horrify-
ing existence than killing and facing
death each day for reasons you neither
understand nor believe?

‘Restraint will be seen as unpatriotic’’
in the present political mood, according
to Senator Edmund Muskie. In an

atmosphere of rising nationalistic fervor, :

where a word as conservative and
innocuous as-‘‘restraint’’ connotes trea-
son, what happens to those who go
further than “restraint” and-speak-out
against the draft and against a war?
People often call, the U.S. a weak
nation, accusing it of being ‘‘scared to
fight.’’ But the real weakness lies in
individual Americans who don’t have the
courage to say they don’t want to fight.

Computers
Need
Reevaluating.

Mark. Phillips

A recent issue of The Davidsonian re-
ported that the next ten years will be a
critical period for American higher
education. In an article on “goals and
priorities for the 80's”, President Spen-
is planning in order to “draw students
and coynteract. the decline in enroll-
ment.’’ He mentioned the building
program, systematic use of alumni in
admissions, increased recruitment in
areas outside the southeast, and a more
developed prospective student list. I am

shocked, however, that the President did
not mention the school’s plan for an im-

- proved computer system. In this day of

skyrocketing technology, more and more
careers are demanding a knowledge of
computers and this means that more and
more young men and women are looking
for a school with a decent computer
system.-

Davidson now has two computers,
neither of which is very good. One of
these is an NCR Century 101, used
mostly by the administration. This is the
one that prints student's schedules. and
grades. It was a rather powerful machine
in its day, but compared to modern
computers it is scandalously inadequate.
Not only is input restricted to. cards
which must be pre-punched, but the only
method of output is via a line printer
that wastes nearly as much paper as it
uses. Modern computers, on the other
hand, are much more versatile in output,
more accurate, faster, and cheaper.

Our other computer is the PDP8/F
known to Math 23 students plus a few
others. It is very limited, however, in
that it has only 1 disk, a maximum of 8
terminals, and a program length of less

_ than 300 lines. This present equipment

has been outdated for quite some time
now, and almost everyone that has any
contact with it realizes this. A computer
planning committee, which began last
year but was not make official- until
sometime this fall, has been working on
possibilities for a new system, which will
probably not be installed until 1981. But
why are. we just now beginning to take
action?

There are several reasons. Most of the
problem lies in our attitude towards
computing. Too many members of the
administration, faculty, and student
body at Davidson do not realize the
potential of a good computer system.
Computer technology has grown so
tremendously in recent years that com-
puters are finding uses in many liberal
arts areas as well as mathematics and
the sciences. The Library; for example,
could easily use a computer in“place of
the card catalogue. This would save time
for the students and the librarians both.
Students could use a computer to write
and revise papers. The text editor on
most modern computers allows the user
to erase or rearrange lines or even whole
paragraphs at a time. And once revised,
the computer could type the paper in
matter of seconds, automatically spac-
ing footnotes: A computer with graphics
capabilities could be used in math
courses to illustrate visual concepts that
are next to impossible to draw on a

(See Computers, page 11)

Anyone interested in writing a column, -

should contact Tim Dwight or Mark

Ree
Barrett (-65164

Mark Phillips is a sophomore from
Chaeloite, North Carolina. Tim Dwight

Qpinions Editor
