en

e

He

~S/
a

\
aN
>

4

{M,
TT wt
SS

al f

L

A

4
6
see

i

WS fil

(Gia Partain)

Complacency Kills

Tim Dwight

Two groups in the United States are
ready to go to war whenever our leaders
think they should. The first is mindless-
ly devoted to our nation’s symbols and
does not listen to any arguments. The
second group, more numerous and less
vocal, simply does not think very much
or very deeply about our politics. They
assume, quite innocently and naturally,
that if our leaders want us to go to war,
they must have a good reason. After
they watch the nightly news on televi-
sion, read the daily headlines, and flip
through a popular newsweekly each
_week, they consider themselves well-
informed. is

We can see they are wrong, however,
by looking back over the last twenty
years. We see the tragedy which our
complacent, ‘‘informed’”’ attitude
caused. On their own, our leaders
created a war. And our people allowed it.

We look back not just to point out our
past mistakes, but to ensure that we do
not repeat them today. We have to
watch with care what our leaders do
now. Bob Barnes is correct when he says
registration is ‘only a first step.” (The
Davidsonian, February 8, 1980) With
this unlimited supply of.manpower, the
President can pull young people into the
armed forces at his discretion. This will
trample individual freedom and break
the Thirteenth Amendment which pro-
hibits involuntary servitude.

Our leaders are willing to protect the
ideal of freedom in faraway places, but
not the freedom of individuals in their
own country. The U.S. will respect
individual rights only up to a certain
point. Unfortunately, that point has
been easy for our office-holders to reach.

At least two reasons are given for this
flaunting of our Constitution. One,
according to Barnes, “‘forceful military
aggression by governments that inhibit
these individual rights cannot go -unan-
swered.”’ Two, since “America is recog-

nized as the leader of the free world,”” we

must ‘‘react first, as well as strongest.”’
Not only are these bad reasons, no one
believes them enough to fight for them.
If most Americans believe we are really
fighting for these ideals, why do we have
to force people into service? There should
be enough volunteers. And if we have to

(See Complacency, page 7)

February 15, 1980—The
ae

Trimesters Work Better

Rick Johnston |

In the last few weeks the semester
issue has been raised again, with many
students and faculty members voicing
support of semesters. However, I have
studied under a semester system and I
think that trimesters are in Davidson’s
best interest.

First, Christmas break is not an
important factor. I do not believe
students forget material during the three
week vacation. We may be a little rusty
on the first day after break, but after a
short review the material is fresh in our
minds. It would hardly be worth the
$25,000 and four years of sweat if we
forgot everything three weeks after
graduation.

The fact that most colleges and
universities use a semester format is also
of secondary importance. There: are two
fairly easy ways of getting around this.
You could spend an entire year at
another university, or combine a term at
Davidson with five semester courses at
another institution, putting together an
independent study during the interval.

In evaluating a semester system, the
primary questions are: Would we learn
more?, Is there less pressure? and Can
we benefit from additional time in doing
assigned projects?

Students often learn less under a
semester system. Most professors argue
that daily contact with a subject makes
learning easier, while cramming every
few weeks is detrimental. Under seme-
sters, no one would study for every
course each day. (Who would study
Thursday night for a Tuesday-Thursday
course? — especially when you have four
other courses to worry about.)

With a semester structure, a study
schedule becomes very erratic. After
closing some books for several days, it is
tempting to keep them closed for another
few days, and students fall hopelessly
behind. I have often seen students
simply ignore courses for two or three
weeks at a time.

An equal amount of academic pressure

exists whether the school year is divided
into two parts or three; However, the
pressure is distributed more evenly
at the end of a semester is something
that most Davidson students have never
experienced. We think the “end of the
term crunch” is grueling at Davidson,
but can we imagine being behind in five
courses during the final week? —_-

Exams are troublesome now; but
picture them under a semester system.
You have to recall material assigned as
much as four months ago. And, it’s more
difficult to remember this material since
you probably didn’t study it regularly.
Also, instead of two or three exams
staring -you in the face, you have four
five. * '

It is somewhat idealistic to think that
we would benefit because a semester
system gives us more time to do
assigned projects. How many of us begin
our work immediately after it is assigned
anyway? The truth is that we already
have plenty of time for term papers and
other assignments. Under a semester
system, we would just procrastinate
longer.

There are other bad points to a
semester proposal. The opportunity to
become ‘proficient in a foreign language

-might be eliminated, as well as a science

major’s option not to double up his lab
courses. In addition, we could practi-
cally kiss Thanksgiving vacation good-
bye (although under a 4-1-4 system the
two month vacation between semesters
would make up for Thanksgiving).

My adjustment to a semester system
was a relatively difficult one. A change
to semesters would have a dramamtic
impact, yet many have shown little
interest in the issue. If more students
had an opportunity to study elsewhere,
they wouldn’t be so indifferent. They
would be opposed to semesters.

. gRick Johnston, a senior, has studied

anderbilt and Georgetown

Scripture Isn’t Peanuts

Paul Suich

Recently, the Davidson community
had the privilege of hearing Robert L.
Short, author of The Gospdl According

_to Peanuts, The Parables of Peanuts, and

several other books. Mr. Short presented
a rather fast-moving slide show to a
standing-room only crowd at the minori-
ties luncheon on ‘Something to Believe
In,” The thesis of Mr. Short’s talk was
that a literal belief in hell leads to a
disillusionment in Christianity and
brings about the birth of liberal human-
ism which in turn leads to atheism.
Sliding down the course of human
history we eventually arrive in a state of
nihilism because we discover that there
is no meaning in life. So we search again
for meaning in the many false prophets,
eventually returning to Jesus. However,
once we return to a belief in Jesus Christ,
we also face belief in hell, which drives us
to libéral humanism...and we’re off
again in a never ending cycle. Short’s
answer—eliminate the literal belief in
hell, and break the chain. Anyone who
really believes in hell must believe in a
“monster God.”

In attending Short’s presentation one
could hardly be less entertained, but
at the same time, one could remain quite
unconvinced, Short had a very fast-
moving audio-visual presentation which
relied on our sense of humor much more

than on logic to make his points. After
each step in his argument, Short would
flash a cartoon on the screen and make a
series of jokes and proceed to the next
point before you ever had a to
think about what he was. really saying. I
talk seemed more like an. exercise
developed by a social scientist in
persuasion than ‘‘Something to Believe
Inc:

Short wanted to give us something to
believe in by removing the part of
Christianity which seems least palatable
—hell. He wants us to believe that there
really isn’t anything to be upset about,
God would not really condemn anyone.
God is a God of love. As a Christian
community, we need to challenge these
assumptions, lest we blindly accept more
than we bargained for. Short has keyed
in on the fact that God is love—but has
he forgotten that God is also just? Short
desires to remove a cancerous tumor of
belief in judgment, but is he not indeed
removing a vital organ from the unique-
ness of Christianity?

In light of the gravity of the cost
which God paid—the sacrifice of His
only Son—to pay the cost for our sin, it
hardly seems justifiable to accuse Him of
being a “monster.” C.S. Lewis, in the”
Great Divorce, stated “there are two

kinds of people; those who say to God
‘Thy will be done,’ and those to whom
God says, ‘All right then, have it your
way.’”’ In rejecting the atoning death of
Christ and asserting that we have no
need of Him, it is'we who are the
monsters —not God, The solution is not
to attempt to eradicate a concept
attested to by Scripture, but to face up
to our responsibility for our own sin.
- Finally, there is the, matter of Short's
use of Scripture. He was wont to flash
for a few seconds a verse wrenched from
its context in order to show that there
would be no hell. Most of these verses
stated that God is in the process of
reconciling all things to Himself through
Christ (see Col 1:19-20, II Cor. 5:18).
While Short would have us believe that
these bits of Scripture are ‘the coup de
grace, we might take another look.
These scriptures are showing that God is

“setting right his relationship with His

creation. These verses do not speak of —
salvation but of reconciliation with a
creation that has been separated from
God by sin. Short has not taken into
account God's wrath against evil. It is
my contention that The Gospel Accor-
ding to Peanuts is not necessarily the
Gospel according to Scripture.

Paul Suich is a senior:
