THE DAVIDSONIAN

Magna Vis Veritatis

Volume LXIX, number 20

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

April 4, 1980

Patterson Court future appears stable; Slater still more expensive

By JIM REESE
Staff Writer
The recent minimum wage increase
and the rise in food and fuel costs will

most likely force board fee hikes for the
Patterson Court houses fall term.

However, spokesmen for the houses
do not agree with predictions that it
could become economically unfeasible to
operate small-group eating houses in a
number of years.

Such predictions are part of the reason
the new Dining Commons was designed
to be large enough to feed 1600 to 1800
students (see article on Commons).

Vice President for Development Du-

Elizabeth Alexander aims a Dadaistic attack at Johnson Vail as u masterpiece is thrown together.

Computing revitalization ahead

ane Dittman said, ‘‘Should it become too
difficult to operate the Patterson Court
houses, the Commons would be able to
accommodate the entire student body.’

Dittman emphasized, however, that
the eating house system is not threat-
ened by the Commons and the admini-

‘stration will do all it can to preserve the -

(eating house) tradition.”

Rusk House treasurer Betsy Thomas
said the economic crunch for Rusk is
‘‘just now beginning.’’ Several other
houses, however, had to increase their
board fee for spring term, and many
budget cuts have already taken place.

“We have (considered stopping) Sun-
day night meals, and we've cut back on

social functions,’’ said ETC treasurer
Larry Jones. Members of Fanny and
Mabel’s have been conserving energy
because of high utility bills, according to
treasurer Brian Kelleher.

None.of the house spokesmen feel the
possibility of phasing out Patterson
Court is very likely, ‘“‘at least not in the

next three or four years,’’ Phi Delta
Theta treasurer Ben McCall said.
Rusk’s Thomas added, “Right now

almost every house is less expensive
than Slater,’” and although the eating
houses must raise their fees, ‘‘so will
Slater.”’

Several of the eating house treasurers

(Trey Thies)

also pointed out that since A.R.A. Slater
food service is more expensive now than
most eating houses, large group dining
is not necessarily more economical.

Director of Dining Services Barry
Cheatham said the board fee for fresh-
men and independents eating at Bailey
and Richards will increase next year. He
also said that A.R.A. Slater expects to
provide food service for the Commons,
but board fees for the planned complex
“will have to be worked out later.”

ATO treasurer Elizabeth Alexander
does not expect each eating house’s
board plan to vary too much from that of
the Commons. “‘I think we'll survive,”’
she said.

Commons progress

finally apparent

2 By JIM CROWE
Staff Writer
Physical Plant Director Grover
Meetze said Wednesday that while no
contract has yet been signed, that

| . pre-construction meetings for the new

Commons began this week.

Meetze said these meetings are a
result of several weeks of intense work
and negotiation with the low bidder for
the project, the L.P. Cox Construction
Company.

Negotiations have resulted in several
changes in the overall plan of construc-
tion, Meetze said. “The tentative chan-
ges we have made in the plans have been
agreed to by the low bidder, so we are at
liberty to get the wheels in motion. We
really don’t want to lose any time.”
Meetze expects construction to be
completed by September, 1981.

Construction costs for the building are
estimated at 3.2 million dollars, ‘though
the actual project cost including such
things as site preparations, relocating of
power lines, and extension of facilities,
will be about 3.6 million dollars.”

“The changes we have made in the
plans do not substantially alter the
operation of the building, but we have

had‘to make some changes as
(Sco Commons, page 11).

Visiti siting committee to evaluate athletic program

By JOHNSON VAIL registration, finances, and stu- By GLENN KELLUM ‘The advantage, however, is.
Staff Writer . . dent records. — Assistant News Editor this committee can evaluate the
The College will hire.a Direc- Particular emphasis will be A visiting athletic committee program from an objective

tor of Computer Services. for

‘next year as part of a drive to
improve Davidson's admini-

- strative and instructional com-

- puter system.

_The Computer Planning .

‘Committee made the recom-
mendation to establish the new
position. According to the com-
mittee’s report, the new Direc-
tor will be a faculty member
directly responsible to Vice

President for Academic Affairs.

tor will teach students to a-
chieve ‘‘coniputer literacy,"
promote computer use among
members of the faculty in
classroom instruction and re-
search, and support the adrin-
istrative staff in areas such as

placed on institutional research

for use in ‘‘allocation of: re-

the 1980s of students, faculty,
and administrative staff of the

. quality we wish will require that |

Davidson offer computer ser-

vices that are more than merely

adequate,”’ the committee
wrote, adding that. the College
should: ‘‘seek to be a leader
among liberal arts colleges ‘in

the field of computer services.” i

Director of Personnel and
Administrative Services Robert
Stevenson, chairman of the
Computer Planning Committee,
said, the Davidson: educational
experience should reflect the

(Sco Computers, page 11)

‘will spend Wednesday and
Thursday of next week evaluat--

18 ee aris.

“The danger is to expect too
much.’’ The committee will
only be here for two days, and
the information they evaluate
will necessarily be cae a)
general,’’ Shi said.

stance, Shi said. They will be
able to “‘tell us (if) what we're

doing is realistic from their.
Shi said the agenda would
- tee Advisory Committee, the. -

y Council on : Intercol-

Advisory :
ieginte Athletics, the Physical  -
, ° Education Committee, the Ath- °

letic Director, the Head Coach-
es, faculty, staff, and students.
An evaluation of this sort is

1¢ . unprecedented, said College

President Sam Spencer. A move
is being made to evaluate other
departments of the College in
the future, Spencer said.

Areas of the athletic program
to be evaluated include Intra-
mural Athletics, Women’s Ath-

letics, ‘tevels of llibaion in
regard to the aspirations of our
program, (and) the College’s
conference.affiliation.” =
Where conference. affiliation
is concerned, the
“will be told that the college is
committed to a Division I
