(Continued from page 1)
part of Davidson’s 1987 Program, a long-range
fundraising effort headed by the College’s own
development staff. The other two areas are endowment
and facilities.

Spencer said the program, which is now ‘‘on target’’
in its fundraising, will continue to place equal
emphasis on the three areas.

Spencer said the building program was the response
to the question, ‘What does the College have to do in

order to attract students?” The building program ~

consists of E. H. Little Library, Martin Science
Building, and Cunningham Fine Arts Center, all
completed, and a planned Sports complex, Dining
Commons, and dorms.

All of the buildings for general use are planned with a
student body of 1600 in mind, according to the
long-range goals of the Co-education Plan of 1970-71
Now, in light of projected declines in enrollment,
Spencer said, there is ‘‘no plan to increase (enrollment)
in the foreseeable future.’’ However,
options open,”’
for 1600.

Would it be advisable to divert money from the
building program in order to alleviate the immediate
problem of faculty salaries? Spencer said no, pointing
out that any construction should be completed as soon
as possible because of inflation. Moreover, he said,

general facilities will still be designed

“to keep the

January 18, 1980—The Davidsonian—..

Spencer

since donors often designate a specific use for their
gifts, ‘you can’t assume that money from item A can
be used for item B.”’

Nor would redesigning general facilities for 1300
instead of 1600 students make a ‘‘substantial
difference,”’ Spencer said. The increase in the projected
cost of the Commons from two to three million dollars,
for example, was due in part to inflation and was
largely covered by a one-half million dollar gift.

Spencer emphasized the importance of the Commons
as a protection ‘‘against the time when small group
dining (the Patterson Court system) is no longer
efficient and economi

As ‘for trying to trim the building budget, Spencer
insisted ‘‘it is not that elaborate. When you get down to
cutting parts off the budget you see there really isn’t a
whole lot you can do without hitting it with a meat
axe.”

“The real question,”’ Spencer said; ‘‘is whether we:
need the buildings.” He added that a great many
‘“‘people agreed on their necessity in attracting
students.”

Other plans to draw students and counteract the
decline in enrollment are the ‘‘systematic use of
alumni”’ in admissions, increased recruitment in areas
outside of Davidson’s traditional southeastern consti:
tuency, and further development of the prospective
student list, Spencer said. The Admissions Office is in

SGA

Tv

the process of formulating two five-year plans to handle
admissions strategy in the ‘80's.

The goal, Spencer said, will be to keep enrollment
steady. Growth would only occur if there was a plan to
raise the number of women students or to increase
income. The student-faculty ratio will stay fixed at 13
to 1,

The policy for admitting women in the ‘80’s will
basically remain unchanged, with the admissions ratio
periodically adjusted to the ratio of applications. ““Two
to one is not going to stay,’’ said Spencer, ‘‘if the ratio
of women applicants far outruns it.’’ (For this year’s
freshman class, there were 996 male and 514 female
applicants.) Ultimately, Spencer predicted that David-
son would move toward a 1:1 ratio rather than equal
access admission, pointing out that equal access would
probably lead to a majority of female students.

Spencer proposed no major changes on college
financial and admissions policies over the next ten
years. Financially, ‘‘we’re pretty economical,” he said.
At present, Davidson has no formal organization to
evaluate the college’s goals and priorities.

As for major shifts in Davidson’s traditional
atmosphere in an effort to combat the pressures of the
1980's, Spencer ruled them out. ‘‘We view our present
system—a community living and working together—as
part of the process of education,” he said. That is not
going to change.

Join

Interested in working for
The Davidsonian?

Positions are open in all
areas of the newspaper—we
need writers, photographers,
typists, proofreaders, busi-
ness and administrative as-
sistants, etc.

No previous newspaper
experience is required to
work with The Davidsonian.
If you want to get involved
and are willing to devote
some time to the newspaper
(you determine how much),
come by the Davidsonian
office between 3:30 and 5:30
Monday afternoon or during
the ten o’clock hour Monday,
Tuesday, or Wednesday.

Us!

(Continued from page 1)

Also, Haynes said Dean of
Students Will Terry felt felease
of the number of Honor Code
violations by students would be
“a violation of the integrity of
the (Deahn’s) office and the
privacy of students.”

When asked his opinion on
athletic policy, Haynes refused

comment. ‘‘I’ve tried to be very .

objective, and the Committee
as a whole has been very
objective.”

Other Coiniitthe members
were John Davis, Tim Harden,
Donna Iles, Genevra Kelly,
Noelle McHugh, L. D. Sim-
mons, and Richard Terry. .‘‘We
had a good spectrum of opinions
on the Committee,’’ Haynes
said. “I don’t think that (we
were) biased at all.’”’

(continued from page 6)
Williams’ performance.

After the show, Williams
talked about ‘‘Dylan Thomas
Growing Up” as well as his othe
endeavours in a Morrison Room
reception. And there was much
to talk about. He has acted with
some of the greatest performers
of film and state—Ingrid Berg-
man, Vivien Leigh, Gary Coo-
per, and Laurence Olivier. He
has had numerous works pub-
lished, including his best-

Williams

Average GPA by Varsity Sport

Men’s baseball 2.61
Men’s basketball 2.47
Men’s cross-country 3.03
Men’s football 2.55
Men’s golf 2.99
Men’s soccer 2.86
Men’s swimming 3.00
Men’s tennis 3.04
Men’s track 2.61
Men’s wrestling 2.90
Women’s basketball 2.91
Women’s cross-country 3.35
Women’s field hockey aut.
Women’s tennis 2.93
Women’s track 3.19
Coed sailing 2.99
Coed rifling 2.96
All students 3.07
All men 3.07
All women 3.18

Source: SGA Athletic Commit-
tee

known play, ‘“‘The Corn is
Green,’’ which starred Bette
Davis in the 1947 film version
and Katherine Hepburn in last
season’s television special.
Thomas is indeed a man of
rare talent and stamina. His
audience was treated to a
delightful one man show by a
delightful little Welshman,
‘about medium height —five
foot, six inches.”’ Like he said,
“That’s medium for a Welsh-

man.

CCRL

News At A Glance

Contract Renewals

.

The ea of the following professors aa been ‘renewed: Art.
Professor Russ Warren, Music Professor Bill Lawing, French
Professor George Poe, Religion Professor Michael Root; History
Professor David Shi, and Music Professor James Swisher. The -
Administration reviews untenured professor's contracts pa tos

Davidson Shopping Center opens

Lowe’s Supermarket will open in the new Davidson shopping
center Sunday at noon. Lowe’s is located next to Cornwell dia
which has been open since December.

NC-AIRG sponsors Generic Drug Law

The work of several Davidson NC-PIRG students contributed to.
a state law which went into effect January 1 and is expected to save
consumers up to $6.5 million yearly. ~

The law requires pharmacists to fill presctiptio with low-cost
generic drugs rather than brand-name drugs if the patient’s doctor
approves. New prescription forms will have a special space for. a

years.

doctor approval.

A committee of Davidson students did.a study last year of zi
several Charlotte area pharmacies which exposed the price dis-

_crepancies between generic and brand-name drugs.

Pamphlets describing the law are available free from Davidson
‘NC-PIRG Chairman Susan Marynowski in Little 309, phone “6168.

(Continued from page 1)
(Kremser) could totally destroy
players’ positive attitudes
about themselves.”

“It’s bad he had to be fired,”
Robbins said, “‘but he left the
College with no alternative.” .

Track team member John
Hoots said ‘““Kremser was given

Kremser

Nightmares

ie |

an impossible job’ with hie
responsibilities to both soccer e
and track. “‘It’s hard to get a.

non-scholarship progam tS
eae here.”

“I know some people i in ted,
complain, but it is usually ©
because of their own personal
frustrations,” Hoots said. ~-

different types of houses.

The freshmen and sophomores will be
voting for the type of house which
they might like to join as charter
members. The other house on their ballot
"will reflect: what they feel would best
“complement Patterson Court.”’

_ The juniors and seniors will be voting
_ for their preferences in terms of ‘‘compe-
tition and social options they want
available,” Terry said.
| After the vote is taken, the Council
' will begin accepting applications from
groups interested-in occupying the
“houses, Although the straw vote is not
binding, it will aid the Council in
deciding which applications to accept,
Robertson said. For example, if students
decided to put a coed eating house last in

its list of preferences then the possibility
of accepting an application from this
type of group would be slim. Likewise, if
students wanted to add another coed
house, application from a coed house
would be very easy to accept, Robertson
said. The Council will submit its
proposal to Terry after all the applica-
tions have been submitted.

‘Robertson noted that deciding which
applications to accept will be a difficult
task. The decisions will be made based
on four criteria: 1) financial stability, 2)
personality of the house in relation to the
Court, 3) overall organization, 4) sup-
port’ among members. A well-thought-
out program will be essential if a Aad
wants its application accepted, Robert.-
son added.

(Continued from page 5)

With a glint in his eye, the great Ragu
informed me that the answer to this was
to be found in my own dream of the
symbolic rise of the cesspool prospect
from the john and my subsequent
blackout. ‘‘But great Ragu, is there
nothing we can do? Isn’t there some way
to be sure we can draw top-notch
students to Davidson in future years?,”’
I gasped. The Ragu thought deeply and
replied, “‘We could show lots of good
movies.”” “Silly Ragu, Flicks are for
kids,” I scoffed.

To which he agreed, and the issue
went unresolved. For it is a dismal fact

- that at other schools at least, academic

standards will have to drop in order for

ssegacinmnitusiaies to. survive. Will the |
same happen here? Considering the fact -
that Davidson is receiving record: num:
bers of applications, probably not, Still, -
it is an issue that needs to be closely:
watched. — \ |

allowed to leave. — ‘the wiser.
Strangely enough, that ominous —

another. You see, I'm standing
lampost on a foggy London: (
bundled in my trenchcoat, selling me
really intense college brochures to per-
verted passersby. There’s one with a
fold-out on student statiatiog A nai
great. Oh, well. -
