Sibi’: cosets ilibiii ask ‘te @ Bald of eit 'to's
tournament held ‘at Washington and Lee last Saturday.

The tournament did have its bright spots however, Rob King
easily won the heavyweight division by pinning all of his
opponents; Mike Garfinkle took second place in the 158 pound
class, and James Young finished fourth at 118 pounds.

King commented, ‘People don’t realize the time and hard work
that wrestlers put into their sport. The hard work is finally starting
to pay off for us.” —-

Davidson’s next match is a tri-meet this Saturday in Johnston

oe ee ee starting at 11:00.

Rifle Team

Davidson’s Rifle Team nipped The Citadel by one point,
2082-2081, to capture a four-way match this past weekend. Furman
and the University of Tennessee at Chatanooga finished third and
fourth respectively.

John Parham once again led the Cat marksmen and his 536 total
was enough to win the individual competition. Robbie Kirkendol,

Pat Stuart and freshman Doug Austin rounded out Davidson’s~

first team. Two members of the second four, John Hartman and
George Hatfield, also shot ‘well. The ‘team’ § victory:runs the
seasons record to 13-6.

Next Saturday finds the rifle team in (Boobs for a match with

always tough Appalachian State. —VAN BECK
Sports Calendar
Friday, February 1
4:00 Swimming: William & Mary Away
6:00 Women’s Basketball: Meredith College Raleigh
6:15 Wrestling: Hampden-Sydney Home
Saturday, February 2
11:00 Wrestling: Lynchburg Home
2:00 Swimming: Old Dominion Away
Rifle: Appalachian Away
7:30 Women’s Basketball: N.C. Wesleyan Rocky Mount
8:00 Basketball: Notre Dame Away
Monday, February 4 ‘
7:30 Basketball: University of Tenn., Chattanooga Away
Tuesday, February 5
7:30 Women’s Basketball: UNC-Greensboro Away
Wednesday, February 6
7:30 Basketball: Citadel
aes rhs abi iegke tity 7) debe bed eg

PAE RG

MIDWINTERS
Happy Hour

$1.40 PITCHER

Thursday 6:00 - Until
Friday 3:00 - until
Saturday 6:00 - until

Coming Soon -
Wide Screen TV

this week’s winner of
the weekly win- a-keg
contest is 2nd & 3rd
floor Belk

a new contest begins
every Monday

ie Pe hae Pe

_ Add leuperienee

Facts indicate that you may work in’
three to five different careers. It wen’t be:
unusual to make changes as you gogand
it’s entirely possible that your finakcareer.
does not even exist today.

Often in a first job, you are an,
assistant to the assistant. Your
responsibility is limited to a desk athd
typewriter,

But when your first jobis an Ar my

2LT, you’ll have real management You'll be compensated financially;
experience. You'll be in charge. Ona stimulated physically and mentally.
specific job assignment, you could have 30 To and ei neriaviee to your degree
to.40 people working for you. And youcould contact

be sie sata for millions of dollar sin CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept

Responsibility for people and
‘resources is exactly the kind of “take
charge” experience civilian employers

»y Seek. It’s a margin of difference in the
« onpllcreasingly competitive job market.
Prepare to rise to the top in your
field. Make your first job 3 or 4 years as an
Army Officer
If you have two years remaining in
‘school, you can begin ROTC this summer.

Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170

ee ynationta, i

sericea

test
Rea Fahl
