The Back Page

In Charlotte

Charlotte’s Spirit Square will get its season off to a start this week
with an appearance by Joel Grey on Wednesday, April 16. The
internationally acclaimed Oscar-winning singer-dancer will perform with
the Loonis McGlohon Trio, of recent Davidson fame. Then on Friday,
April 18, Odetta—the Johnson C. Smith Choir—will be in concert at
Spirit Square. Both concerts are at 8:15 p.m. Tickets for Joel Grey are
$15.00 (includes post-performance reception); tickets for Odetta are
$6.00 For information call (704) 376-8883.

Carowinds

Carowinds is open every weekend now. Y'all come and ride the new

Carolina Cyclone, shown above.

Rape-Prevention Seminar

There will be a seminar on Rape-Prevention and Self-Defense this
Sunday, April 13. Sherry Pethel, a Rape prevention officer of the
Charlotte Police Department, will speak on Rape and self-defense, and
there will be a feature film, ape: A Precentice Jnquiry. The seminar will
be held in the 900 Room at 7:30. For more information contact David

ROTC Blood Drive

In keeping with the spirit of Langella (who will be drinking blood in
Love Friday), the ROTC will be holding a blood drive Thursday, April
17, The drive will take place in the Union from 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
All red-blooded Yanks, bluebloods, and ice-water-in-the-veins type are
encouraged to come and “giye a little bit."’ According to co-coordinator
Jorge Silveira, the goal is to exceed Davidson’s previous record of 295

In the 900 Room

If you're not inclined to participate in the mass socializing usually
associated with Spring Frolics, there will be alternative quality
entertainment in the 900 Room this weekend. There will be two separate
acts appearing both Friday and Saturday nights: the group Triangle and
singer-songwriter George Ensle.

Triangle consists naturally enough of three members who have
appeared separately and together throughout the Southeast. Patti
Jones, who leads with vocals, studied voice for three years in Iowa. Jack
LeSueur, with guitar and vocals, studied and played many instruments
throughout public shools and colleges in North Carolina. David
McKnight, on the violin/viola, studied the classical violin for a number
played with orchestras through college. He earned fame while running for
U.S. Senate by walking and fiddling from Murphy to Manteo.

Triangle offers a wide selection of contemporary folk and country
songs, popular, rock, and show music. Their repertoire included music by
James Taylor, Neil Young, Paul Simon, Don McLean, and many others.

George Ensle, who hails from Texas, is also a quite talented and
accomplished musician. He has received wide acclaim for his storytelling,
folksongs, and ballads, and has made numerous radio and television
appearances. j

Triangle and Ensle will both be on campus under the auspices of the
Intimate Performances Committee.

Larry Magnum

The Larry Magnum Band will appear in the 900 Room at 9:30 and 11

this Friday and Saturday night. The band plays a mixture of ballad-like
and contemporary music.

Energy Fair

Alternative energy sources are the focus of an Energy Fair to be held
on the lawn of the Student Union from 1:00-5:00 p.m. this Friday
i n.

HEAL, sponsored by the Davidson's chapter NC-PIRG, will feature

a number of solar energy displays, including a room-heating device that

extends from a window. It uses the power of the sun to heat air passing

through it by convection currents. Another device displayed will be a

solar food dehydrator which uses solar power to dry food such as sliced |
fruit and vegetables. ; ;

Literature on alternative energy developments and conservation hints
will be available, along with balloons, T-shirts and free solar tea.

The fair represents an effort to attract more attention to the world
energy problem and its possible solutions. Susan Marynowski,
Davidson-PIRG President, explained, ‘“‘We'd like to see alternatives
developed now instead of the more dangerous energy sources that the
government is supporting.” —JOUN KROTCHKO

Events on Campus

Iriday, April 11

10:00 a.m. Ed Clark Gallery
6:00 Reception for Ed Clark 900 Room
8:00 and 10:30 Pop Film: /)ruculu Love
Sunday, April 13

7:30 Anti-rape Seminar 900 Room
Monday, April 14

9:00 Vesper Concert: Stanley Scheer, organist DCPC
10:00 Square Dance Love

Wednesday, April 16

10:00 Ian Breward Lecture Gallery
8:15 Student Organ Recital: Ed Nolan and Neal Biggers DCPC
Thursday, April 17

10:00 ROTC Blood Drive Union
7:30 Reception: Vonnie Hendrickson, Senior Art Exhibition

Sports
lriday, April 11

3:00 Men's Tennis: Furman Away

Saturday, April 12

9:00 Men's Tennis: UT-C Furman
11:30 Men's Track: Citadel Home
Women’s Track: Appalachian State and Wake Forest Home
1:00 Baseball: Citadel Home
Sailing: South Atlantic Inter-team Race Home
2:30 Men's Tennis: Marshall Furman

Monday, April 14

2:00 Men's Tennis: Guilford Home
Women’s Tennis: Queens Away
3:00 Baseball: Winthrop Home
Golf: Jacksonville Invitational Away

Tuesday, April, 15

2:00 Men's Tennis: Pfeiffer Away
2:00 Women’s Tennis: Appalachian State Home
3:00 Baseball: Wake Forest Home
Golf: Jacksonville Invitational Away

Wednesday, April 16

2:00 Men's Tennis: South Carolina Away

3:30 Lacrosse Club: Elon Away

Golf: Jacksonville Invitational Away
outcadiay, Apri f

3:00 Baseball: Wofford Away

Women’s Tennis: State Tournament Away

Edited by Jeff Herrin
