SETS

‘10—The Davidsonian— April 25, 1980

Spring football training lis over but weight lifting goes on.
: stab (Stephen Enniss)

Because there’s a two-year Army ROTC program, in case

‘ 5 R a j
bw | issed taking ROTC in your first two years of college.
Sports Scr, ipts 7 a You'll have to work to catch up, during the summer before

your junior year. But in two years you'll earn about $2,900, more

3 “ ree ‘ll earn an officer’s
Sar, W= ma Jerse ) than half of which is tax free. Then you ;
: cashlidincite ck's a : y retired commission at the same time you eam a college degree. But mail
An ex post facto on the career of Davidson’s Sara Womack seems the coupon now. Because by the time you re a junior, itll be too late.
appropriate. Womack, who was named twice to the NCAIAW he ak Ok Be ee eae oy
All-state Team, ended her four year stint with 18 Wildcat records. - | ARMY ROTC é
Not only is the Richmond, Va. senior Davidson’s career scoring | Box 368 Davidson, NC 28036

leader with 1250 points, or 16.7 points a game, but she also.is the
career leader in categories as diverse as rebounds (601) and field
goal attempts, not to mention career fouls. (She did play some

Please send me more information about the Army ROTC
Two-Year Program.

Ms.
defense too.) Mr. fe eo
Womack twice scored more than 30 points in a contest and Address :
during her-junior year had ten 20 point efforts. Her‘senior year she City County.
tossed in 19.1 points per outing. Womack’s jersey was retired this Se ; Zip Dhani
otate nls Ew (0) 9| -brstninel ene na SS

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

past season and she was also named to the final 24 in All-American
consideration. : College Attending

a

|

|

|

Ee

Graduation Date

The Army ROTC Two¥ear Program

Considering the bevy of records she owns, Sara Womack’s name
should remain in the Davidson record books for quite some time.
—VAN BECK

Individuals shine at Furman

Davidson trackmen ventured to Greenville, S.C. this past

weekend for the Furman Invitational and registered several strong
performances. With the Southern Conference meet upcoming the
Furman meet was employed by Coach Karl Kremser’s charges as a
tuneup to gauge conditioning.
_ Middle distance man John Hoots left little doubt as to his
conditioning heading into the Conference meet. Hoots, a
prodigious interval trainer, turned in a school record 1500 meter
run with a 3:58.9 clocking. He cut six seconds off his personal best
in dipping under the four minute mark for the first time, Coach
Kremser feels that Hoots has the potential to get under 3:55 this
weekend; a time which could earn him a place at the Conference
Championships.

The weightmen should also be noted. Dave Nichols reaped a LL)
second place in the hammer, Ken Fleming uncorked a sixth place .
effort in the discus and Paul Mainella finished likewise in the a: Jig Best Food East of Tulsa

Ge ee

javelin. With stron performances this weekend each could gain a
place in the top six in the Southern Conférence.

Hurdlers Lance Sisco and Dick Jones also placed despite subpar
performances. Jones tied for fourth in the 400 meter intermediate
hurdles while Sisco finished sixth in the high hurdles. Jones would
seem the Cats’ best bet for a high place in the Conference meet this
weekend.

In the team competition Davidson placed ninth; South Carolina
came out on top in the meet, which included several respected track
schools. —VAN BECK

= = TONIGHT
Bball signs coach, 2 players — rst " BLUEG RASS

this time of year. Coach Eddie Biedenbach’s staff is on the move in BAN D

search of young talent to bolster next year’s squad. Biedenbach’s

staff is minus one aide, however. Graduate assistant Rick Barnes

has moved on to become first assistant at George Mason

University in Fairfax, Virginia. Barnes, who helped at Davidson DELIVERIES 892 = 8686 7:00 PM
_for two years after graduating from Lenoir-Rhyne where he played,

will assist head coach Joe Harrington at George Mason.
-Biedenbagh has signed two players thus far with several more

expected as the national signing date nears. Within the past week 8:30 - 11:00 PITC H ER ; $1 715
the Sports Information Office announced the inking of 6-4 & 00 ® ;
wingman Kenny Wilson of Hope Mills, N.C, and 6-3 John | every day of the week
Gullickson of. Orland Park, Illinois. Wilson, an All-State $5.00 MINIMUM

pis toa berth in gins Soe wale (4A) io Noth Cunlics. 50 DELIVERY CHARGE O UTSI DE UN DER
Gullick son, a second guard, who also earned uae —_ a. ~ ery es ;
jets te ahead Be vsen ot 42 potas thle season. : . TH E Mi OON
ee —VAN BECK

