' ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN - +

_ Founded 1914

hat Are You Doing Here?
“Davidson's primary purpose is to. develop persons of
; naman instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and

of Christian acter for full lives: of leadership, of
ng ae from the | College Statement of Purpose

Ralph Nader poled out Tuesday a common fact which
- we all seem to forget from time to time: Davidson is Part
of the real world.

Nader did so by way of refuting the argument that
students should concentrate heavily on their grades while
at Davidson so that they will be ready to. face graduate
school and ultimately, “life.” All too many students
presently treat Davidson as a doormat, something to pass
over on the way to. some higher, more meaningful life.

Yet the prevalence of this attitude makes us wonder if
Davidson is achieving its purpose of developing persons
who will lead a full life of service and involvement.
Students. seem determined to“build a wall of books
between. themselves and the world’s problems while at
Davidson. We cannot help but worry that this wall of
books will turn into a wall of money after graduation, and
our future alumni will continue to blithely ignore the
condition of their fellow man. If students are not truly
interested in service now, when as Nader pointed out,
they are supposedly at the height of their idealism, then
we must wonder if they will undergo some sudden
transformation upon leaving and then begin lives of

- service and involvement.

ms Our worrisa ‘about Badiiison'esuecess in meeting its
é stated purpose cannot be assuaged by tracking down our
. alumni and examining their lives for indications of
service. The problem fies-with the students here now. if
Davidson is not stimulating students to became involved

: with campus concerns and-national problems, then it is

not living up to its. statement of-purpose, which. calls. for
full lives of service, not service after: graduate school.
There are poor peopie across the tracks in the town of

Davidson. The College has. financial problems, admini- .

strative problems, and misplaced priorities: This nation is
threatening to elect one of the most ridicutous candidates
for president ever, Ronald Reagan, and ignoring one of
the few ever to seriously and honestly discuss issues and
possible solutions, John Anderson.

It may be that to a certain extent college is a time to be
selfish and spend a lot of time making good grades and
improving one’s position, but a student’s obligations to
himself and his fellow man are not always contradictory.
There is much to be learned from participating in the
various service groups here that is simply not available in
the classroom, and much that is available in the
classroom but not taken advantage of because students
are too grade-conscious..

The grade-conscious student often becomes so
obsessed with these dubious measures of learning that
he never really comes to grips with the intellectual issues
central to the purpose of the course. Say what you please
about a Davidson education, it is all too easy to simply
make good grades by eerie and regurgitating
material. -

The opportunities for service and involvement outside
the classroom abound. The SGA, no matter what faults
one finds in its recent performance, does have the
potential to influence college policy. (The SGA will soon
be appointing new members to several important advisory
councils.) The Y Student Service Corps is engaged in a
large number of service activities to the community at
large. We here at The Davidsonian try to foster and
participate in serious debate of campus issues and

. problems. Davidson’s NC-PIRG chapter is devoted to
making governments and corporations work for the
people, not against them. ’

it is a commonplace that Davidson students are
apathetic and are reluctant to get involved and thus serve.
Yet we hope that students will begin to see Davidson as
past of the world and not a mere prelude. Those who came
here merely to gain entrance into a good graduate school
or job do themselves and vant fellow man a greet
disservice. 5

— Mark Barrett’

ag fevmy joist

fy neascoup isdécun ai stad: fine

The Campus Forum

Cancellation
‘Lo. the Editor
. We are disappointed with The
Davidsonian—last week’s edi-
tion in particular. Please cancel
our subscription.
Andy Smith ’80
Jim Haynes '80

Voting
‘To The Editor:

Youth register less compared
to other age groups, and of
those registered, youth votes
less compared to other age
groups. In talking with stu-
dents, I found the: four main
reasons for non-participation
are (1) don’t have time, (2) lack
of. good candidates, (3) unim-
portance of. their vote, and. (4)
don’t have time to register.

These are not. good reasons.

(1) Registering and voting takes

very, little time, and is very
important in determining a
responsive government. (2)
This year, at least, there is one
good candidate—John Ander-
son. His credentials are impres-
sive. His stands on the issues
are intelligent and forthright.
His optimistic attitude toward
youth is refreshing. (3) Indivi-
dual votes ure important, as
this is the way your viewpoint is
“tallied up” with other view-
points, alike and different, to

form a consensus in electing -

officials. (4) Registering to vote
is easy. It takes just a few
minutes. Call the County Board
of Elections to.find out where to

To vote for John Anderson
in the May 6th primary, you
must register Republican by
April 8th. As the beneficiaries
of this country’s future, let’s
resolve now to become more
visible in the election process.

Mark Reynolds Dodd
Senior al UNC-CH
Gossip Issue
To The Editor:

Reading the Campus Forum
letters between SGA President
John Jackson and Robert Bowie
was the most en ining ma-
terial The Davidsonian has
published all year. The. literary
quality of the slander, libel, and
gossip—(whichever Merriam-
Webster Dictionary word you
prefer) — surely gave Rona Bar-
ret a run for her

While the SGA’ went out of
their way last weekend to
present Davidson in the best
light possible for he recruits,

‘call someone -a

election.

I’m afraid their efforts may
have been in vain.

I wonder what the high
school seniors’ impressions of
Davidson were as they read
through The Davidsonian
Thursday night? Surely the
maturity and kind remarks of
the letters presented quite a

positive image of Davidson to-

these students.

The Davidsonian has won
recognition from the Columbia
Scholastic Press Association
and the Associated Collegiate
Press as being a ‘‘first class”
and ‘‘medalist’’ newspaper.

Please editors, let’s not lower
‘ the reputation of The Davidson-

ian, as well as that of Davidson,

by printing letters involving —

personal conflicts in the campus
forum.

If John Jackson, or anyone

else for that matter, wants to
““dick’’ and
embarrass them in public, fine,

that’s their own business: How-

ever, the campus forum should
not be used as their sounding
board. Now if you'll excuse me
I'll get back to my National
Enquirer,

Mary Carpenter '83

Absentee Ballots

‘lo The Editor:

On Tuesday, May 6, North
Carolinians will cast their bal-
lots in the presidential primary.
In.order to boost voter turnout
among students, the Young
Democrats will be giving out
post cards that may be used for

' requesting applications for ab-

sentee ballots. These post cards
will be distributed to each of the
dorm .rooms of the 450 North
Carolina residents on campus.
We urge everyone, Democrat
and Republican, to take a few
minutes and apply for an absen-
tee ballot. The deadline for
applying for an absentee ballot
is the Wednesday before the

Edward Lindsey ‘$1
Kirby Owen ‘81

Letters Wanted

' To The Editor:

I am an inmate in a Federal
Prison in Memphis, Tennessee.
I feel that you might be able to

- help me with a problem. I would.

love to correspond with people
in your college. I have no
friends in the outside world
because I’m in here. It seems
like all my old’ friends don’t
want anything to do with me

Pittatiinewwe. be.t ibe

complete when he has a true
friend to really understand him,
to share feelings and sorrows
with, and to stand by him
throughout his life. I’m sure I
can find this type of friendship
with people in your college.
I’m asking you to please put
my name and address in your
campus paper. Maybe someone
would like to write to me, or
perhaps they would like to know
what prison life is like, and how
a man must act to get along.
The letters I’ll réturn in reply
will be nice, nothing dirty or
weird.
Thank you.
Willie R, Claflin |
F.P.S. Shelby Unit 36451-118
P:0: Box 34550
Memphis, Tennessee. 38311"

_Jeckaon: Replies

To the Editor:

Although the sentiment (im-
partially?) presented in last
week’s Davidsonian was not
indicative of what I’ve encoun-
tered on campus, I would like to

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit letters
for length and clarity. All
letters must be signed. Deadline
will ordinarily be the Monday
night of the week of publication.

Mail letters to The Davidson-
ian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
28036 or bring them by the
newspaper’s office on the third
floor of the College Union.

now. I feel that a man is only

