History Professor David Shi

Dr Shi’s new book

Ant excerpt from Matthew Josephson, iin Bohemian

In Matthew oepheti Bourgeois Bohemian D’
David Shi of the Davidson history department has writ-

ten an insightful portrayal of a complex, difficult char-
acter.

Educated at Columbia, Matthew Josephson was
caught up in the excitement of the Parisian Dadaists in
the early '20's and gained fame as the publicist of two
French literary magazines. Back in the U.S., Joseph-
son became known as an author, writing biographies

. Of Zola and Rousseau.among others, as well.as com-

pleting a history of early American capitalists, The

Robber Barons. Paradoxically, as D? Shi points out in
the following excerpt, when the liberal intellectual Jo-.
sephson. came. to embrace radical communis, he’

_ maintained a bourgeois detachment from the doc-
trine’s practical ramifications, and personified. the
capitalist entepreneurs he sought to weaken. In the ac-
claimed biography, Bourgeois Bohemian, published
by Yale University Press,:D” Shi has shed light on this
and other incongruities in the life of one of this centur-
y's intellectual sid

fellow traveler as a man‘at the edge of the crowd

J OSEPHSON PORTRAYED: HIMSELF IN HIS ROLE AS
more than at the front. He insisted that he always

made up his mind independent of party influence. But
there is more to be said on this issue. True, Josephson
never inclinéd toward membership in the party. And as
he emphasized time and again in later years, he fre-

quently and openly disagreed: with party policies con-

cerning cultural matters. Nevertheless, on most major

political issues in the 1930s and after; Josephson pretty
much followed the Communist line: Like so many fel-_

low travelers he pragmatically fastened upon the utopi-

_ an promises: and immediate relevance of communism -

without recognizing or admitting the gross vulgarities
and human inequalities of ‘communism in ‘Practice. His

own: ‘idealism at times. betrayed him and his critical fa-
culties.

~ Josephson also later insisted that he did not expe-

"rience something akin to a sudden religious conversion
to communism, as so many others did. “T was not,” he
wrote, “one who experienced areligious conversion to: .

Marxism’ and read Das Kapital as a: breviary, but I

- found: Marx wonderfully timely and apposite in'those .-
days.” On the surface, however, Josephson’s transfor-

mation from Dadaist to Marxist did indeed seem to rep-

resent an incredible transformation from Dadaist to

Marxist did indeed seem to represent an incredible rev-
ersal of attitudes, a remarkable about-face analogous to

a religious conversion. After seeing Josephson at a__

page 22/ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

Communist rally during the early 1930s, Murray
Kempton remarked with astonishment: “There was
Matthew Josephson, the playboy of the revolution of
the word in the twenties . . . previously identified with .
. Secession, transition and Dada.” Josephson’s
change of roles and attitudes, however, was not so
much revolutionary as evolutionary, not so much a reli-
gious conversion as a sequential intellectual progres-
sion. There was an underlying unity of values at work
behind such a spectacular transition in ideology.

4

n some respects Josephson was attracted to com-
munism for the same reasons he had earlier been
attracted to Dadaism. His basic intellectual out-

.. look had been shaped by the modernist literary attitude
“he had.adopted as.a college student in Greenwich Vil-

lage, an attitude that meant great esteem for those writ-

» ers who were most revolutionary in. their artistic ap-
proach: Pound; Eliot, Joyce. Josephson later found the

Dadaists appealing because they; too, went to, ex-

tremes. Now he embraced the Communist position at
. least in part because of its radicalism: He clearly pre-
\ ferredhit to the socialism of Norman Thomias, which he

derided as an “educational. or evolutionary:socialism,.
devised by our granddaddies.” The-Communists, on
the other hand, did not compromise or:temporize in
promoting revolutionary change::And such.dynamism

_ was. what the contemporary crisis demanded. As Jo-

sephson exclaimed in 1932, “My disgust, my pessim-
ism... . leads me to support, if anything,-those ex-
tremists who disturb our inert society a little.” Whether
as Dadaist or as fellow traveler,. Matthew Josephson

- was by nature a disturber of the peace, aman capable of
_ great indignation. and oriented toward’ group action.
“No Protestant liberalism for me,” he told Cowley,

“not in these times, anyway.”

In this sense Josephson fits the description that T.
B. Bottomore has applied to the fellow travelers in his
study Critics of Society. He points out that literary in-
tellectuals were attracted to Marxism not primarily asa.
complex social theory but more as a means of continu-
ing, “in another fashion, that alienation from American

‘society which had begun toward the.end of the nine-
_ teenth century.” During the twenties Josephson was al-
" ienated from. the convention of genteel literature and
the philistinism of bourgeois life; in the thirties he was

alienated from the callousness of Western captalism.

” -As Dadist and as fellow traveler Josephson was both a

distinct individual and part of a group. In both roles he
was involved in society yet also detached from it; he
cherished his involvement and his detachment. Thus,

in both Dadaism and communism he found a haven, a
- sense of community. and involvement, that served as an

antidote to the alienation he felt. His attachment in.each
instance, therefore, was relatively superficial. In neith-
er case did ‘he develop a thorough undertanding of the
historical or theoretical bases of the movements. Nor
did he’ ever give himself totally: to them, as did his

’ friend Louis Aragon. He was, in the literal sense of

them, a fellow traveler, both as Dadaist and as Com-
munist.
