Clarification
~ - Two weeks ago the Davidsonian ssjeatial that John Gulllickson
will return to school here this spring. John said he plans to return to

Davidson this spring, and he might. However, he must first re-apply ,

and be readmitted by the Executive Committee.
He must re-apply because he received an indefinite suspension
for allegedly stealing $15. The most common sanction is a two term

. definite suspension, after which students are routinely readmitted _.

without referral to the Executive Committee. Because sanctions are
not made public, the Davidsonian could take only John’s word as to
what his sanction was.

The Davidsonian regrets not ot hgving been able to report the
matter with greater clarity.

_SGA representatives

Students elected new SGA representatives on Tuesday and
‘Wednesday.

Freshman. class senators are Rod Holman, president; Craig :

Detweiler, and Warten Gould. Meg Surrat will represent
Richardson, and Joe Langley and Jim Reaves are the freshman Belk
senators.

Boe Young is the Belk upperclass representative, and Steve
Laurence will represent Little. Joe Ford is the senator for Watts, and
Anne Hurt is the new representative | for Cannon:

Sentelle’s new senator is Mark Oldenburg, and Warner Hall

will represent Duke. Anne Rollins is Irwin’ 's senator, and Knox .

residents elected Burt Taylor.

__ Off-campus representativs are Scott Eblin and Melissa
McKeithen.

a "New thd sedaame

_The Physical Plant is working to upgrade fire valet eapuipinens

throughout campus. .
Acording to Philip Cashion, there are around fifty to sixty new
fire extinguishers in Chambers, the Union, and Patterson. Court.
Workers have also added more exit signs as well as smoke detectors
inthe dorms,
Cashion. plans to add about fourteen more in the new computer
center and on Patterson Court.

~ Dr. King’s back
Math professor L. R. King is at home recuperating: after
undergoing surgery to repair a herniated vertebral disc.

-.. Dr. King “was released) Monday from Charlotte Memorial .
_ Hospital. He was in the hospital for almost two weeks and underwent :

surgery Wednesday, 23 September.
Department Chairman Bruce Jackson iioes. not iy when Dr.
King will be able to return to the College, but said, “We’re not

: = him. Ke ” Within the next metic of. weeks, Dr. Cah s seminar

on Graph Theory (Math 203) will probably beat shetaing P his.
house. Dr. Berner has absorbed Dr. King’ s Math 25 class.

Conner Bowl | “ae

- College Bowl, the sie paced intercollegiate quiz game, il be
broadcast on the CBS Radio Network this season. Time magazine
will be the authenticator of its ‘program material, supplying all
“questions and answers.

Time will also contribute $20,000 to: the College -Bow!
Scholarship Foundation. The money will be used for grants to all the

_ schools.that participate in The National Championship Tournament.

Twelve colleges will compete at the Illinois Institute in the first
round of tapings for the CBS Radio series. The Davidson team,
ptesently consisting of Marvin Overby ’83, John Eglin ’84, Gordon
Turnbull ’83, and Brad Mullis ’83, plans to attend.

According to Marvin, if the team wins three consecutive
matches at this tournament, it will automatically become qualified
for the national tournament.

Dr. Hansford Eppes is head coach for the Davidson team, and
professors Robert Manning, Randy A. Nelson, and Charles Lloyd
assist.

_ The team is presently looking for-at least one alternate.
Interested persons should contact Marvin at 892-6572.

Phone hoax

Colleges nationwide were affected by a recent telephone hoax

". involving a false. telephone credit card number. |

- According to the 19 September Charlotte Observer, one rumor
that started the hoax involved Burt Reynolds’s announcing on “The
‘Tonight Show” that anyone could use his credit card number up until
October 5...

-A Davidson student — who asked that his name not be used —
received a different story that. prompted his use of the: number.
According to this student, Birt Reynolds supposedly received
unlimited credit for a month as settlement in a court case against a
phone company. Reynolds was apparently unhappy with the ruling
and decided to get even by publishing his credit card: number i in one
of the daily New York newspapers. _ .

The Observer said, according to a spokesman for the Pacific
Telephone Company, the hoax is not new: “It’s attributed to.a certain
personality who supposedly has won $1 million in a judgement
against a phone company. Since he’s so rich and such a good guy, he
wants to share his wealth with his friends, ” he said.

"Chief Hughes honored

_. Chief of campus security Jackie G. Hughes sésenity waselected

president of the North Carolina Association of Cantiplas Law
Enforcement Administrators.

Chief Hughes will also be.a member of the Governor's

_ Advisory Council for Crime-Control in 1982 as a part of his duties.

Chief Hughes became director of the campus security force

ied when it was formed in 1978.

“

Peer is w
 DaveBenks Executive Editor 1 / tN
rg hard caeta 3 e ‘Asst Newe Eat

ler ‘Features Editor
| FeaturesEditor =~

sivas SportsEditor cas

~

oak dames Barrat Opinions Editor

nA on Asst. Features Editor :

s

iniashhenrs: Production Manager:
_ Lisa Buckley Head Compositor
* grich Compositor
~-dohn Lusk ‘Compositor

WorldView Editor |
“Lucy Everett Calendar Editor: Rees

“David Graybeal Advertising Manager .
Sat vers Subscription Manager

ue ‘EricLong. ‘Head Photographer
= Mi Baia Bntto PraaUeIOD

j ArtEditor ..
_Jim Rumiey. Staff Artist.
oo nulz Staff Artist
Bic ssasciam Pa print

SEO NNER TRE CRIES os STC MENRC PA

age 2 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981
