Friday 18 September 1981

by Roy Fuller ’83 and Anne Goodwin ‘84

Freshmen arriving at the hallowed halls of David-
son are often overwhelmed by the new faces and new
demands on their time. With this in mind, your helpful
Davidsonian staff interviewed nine college administra-
tors who spent their undergraduate years at Davidson
and asked them to reminisce a little. Even such worthy
folks as these felt the pressures.as well as the pleasures
of being students at Davidson, Take heart: you too may
become a college administrator...

College Archi-
‘vist Chalmers David-
son entered Davidson
“in the fall of 1924.
“When Dr. Davidson

the Court of Control
enforced a list of thir-
teen freshmen regula-
tions.
wear fresh-caps,” Dr.
Davidson said. “We
also had to carry
laundry, and matches
for upperclassmen.
| We weren’t allowed
to walk on the grass . .

. I didn’t really mind
the freshmen regulations though. I wish they still had
some of them.”

Some elements of college life, however, did re-
quire some adjustment. “It was difficult living with a
roommate with different interests,” he admitted. “My
roommate was very social. Late at night people were
calling . . . I like to live on a schedule, and living in a
dormitory made that difficult.”

During Dr. Davidson’s college years, chapel was
required six days of the week. On weekdays the servi-
ces were followed by a student assembly. “We met in
Shearer Hall . . . . They had long wooden benches with
arostrum up front. When we didn’t like the speaker we
would all shift from left cheek to right cheek and make
the’benches squeak . . . We should have been more re-
spectful, but some of thé speakers asked for it.”

Still, Dr. Davidson emphasized, “I don’t oppose
. We got to know everyone. The

a required chapel - .
school has never been as unified as it was in those
days.”

Social life was different before coeducation. “We
thought it was fine,” he said, “because we didn’t know
we were deprived . . . . In fact, our contacts with the

Opposite sex were more, exciting because they were ~

more rare.” Whenever a female did approach, the word
‘FIRE!’ echoed through the dorms to inform all the
men of the rare event.

When the college had: a Weekend I House Party,
one was certain to seé:a: bevy" of belles from: Converse,

Queens, and Salem. Of:course}.no dances took’ place’

on campus because “this. was holy ground.” But Dr.
Davidson confessed, “We would, lock the. doors-and
dance to the victrola. That was very exciting to us.”
Formal dances were usually held in Charlotte. At these

dances, many men would wait inline to dance with the’-

“prom trotters,” the well-known belles that, made the:

circuit. “They had quite a following, Dr. Davidson.

added.

_ Dr. Davidson has also )-observed “academic
changes in the college. “It’s much better now. Com-
pared to other colleges in the South in the 1920s, we
were not too far behind . .... Now, there! is:nota‘better
liberal-arts college in the United States.”

- attended the College;

“We had to-

- still a factor in the late 1930’s

DAVIDSONIAN

Chalmers Davidson, college archivist

C. Shaw Smith ’40
College Union
Director C. Shaw
‘Smith’s first year at
Davidson was 1938.
He: transferred here
after graduating from
Oak Ridge Military
Institute. Mr. Smith
said although David-
son was “easier to get
into in those days, it
was not easy to get out
. There was a
larger span of talent in
the students . . .
[Now] it’s harder to
~. get in and easy to get
out.”
Daily chapel was
. “It got tiresome,” Mr.
Smith said, “but over a span of years you really heard a
lot of great stuff.” Chapel was a time for announce-
ments as well as worship. ““You could speak to every-
body in those days . . . . Chapel was fun in that I got to
know a lot of people, . . . and I got to know them fast .
. . It wasn’t just to worship, i it was to cavort together . .
. . There was something about that gathering of the bo-
dies and‘ most of the minds that-gave a tremendous

community spirit. That’s what I miss most ofall. . . . 1
wish there were a better traffic pattern for us where we
could see each other frequently.”

ROTC had:a: greater presence on campus then.
“Practically everybody took ROTC,” Mr. Smith said.
“Tt served a useful purpose and we didn’t question it in
those days. We lost many of our people [in World War
II} because they were second lieutenants right off the
bat. . - In the first group right after war was
declared . . the moment commencement was over,
the seniors who were to be commissioned walked
straight out of Chartibers building onto the front lawn
of Chamnbers, removed their gowns. They were in

their uniforms and were sworn in as second lieutenants :

and went to war. Many of those fellows never came

back. That’s one reason the plaque in the Union n foyer f

dedicates this building . . . to the students who were
lost in World Wars I and II.” . .

“Davidson is not what it was then, thank good-
ness,” Mr. Smith concluded. “Davidson has changed
because the needs have changed. It serves personally.”

Samuel Spencer ’40

College _Presi-
dent Samuel Spencer
began his freshman
year at Davidson in
‘the fall of 1936. -

“The thing I re-

member about the
freshman year was
coming in and being
very unsure as to my
position in relation to
other students,” Dr.
Speneer said. “I just
rémember walking in-
to classrooms and
wondering whether indeed I could successfully be a
part of this community and at what level. Most of all, I
remember it as a very interesting, exciting, and happy
year.” ,
Other parts of initiation were the 13 freshmen reg-
ulations and the ominous Court of Control, which was
“the upperclass body that punished the offenders who
were caught. They met down in one of the literary soci-
ety halls by candlelight in long robes and would call the
offending freshman before them at night . . . If the
freshman was utterly obnoxious, if he broke the regu-
lations repeatedly, the worst stigma that could be put
upon him was being ordered to wear a yellow cap in-
stead of a regular freshman cap. A yellow cap fresh-
man was a sort of pariah.”

Like Dr. Davidson, Dr. Spencer has a certain ap-
preciation for the required chapel programs. “Leaving
the religious value of chapel aside, it was the common
experience of chapel every day together with the facul-
ty and the student body . . . that gave a family kind of
feeling that would be impossible with a student body
twice that size.”

Socially, “we were what was later called ‘a suit-
case campus’ . . .. We had to go away for dates or we
had to bring dates to the campus,” Dr. Spencer said.
“The social life centered around the fraternities be-
cause we had nothing like the college union to plan
events.”

The. faculty. was all- male when. Dr. Spencer at-
tended Davidson. “They were the type of people who
were good examples for ‘students in their personal
lives. There were a good number of colorful personali-
ties. Nevertheless, our faculty today represents more
breadth and depth in their academic credentials. This
faculty has travelled more and worked and studied in
far-flung places . . . . They are more sophisticated. I
would have to:'say Davidson is a better school academi-
cally than it was in‘ those days ..:. «...By far the best
change I have observed is that Davidion as a whole has

become less provincial and much,more tolerant.”

‘Weg suopestunuiwo0> Asaunas onoyg

Samuel Spencer, college president
