| war strategy. ‘So far he has ignored the
“hopes and’ demands ‘of African na-

demnation ‘of Africa.’

hope in the outcome of negotiations

ate + iy tos
Y kage ght ve
‘ ; g
a haa i
.
. ye EN
ie :

ing U. 5.2 = South Afficaty relations in’ ee : i!
terms of | economic interests and cold: °

tions ‘and therefore rete open con-
Reagan feels that ‘in etacing much

_for Namibian independence that he .

- African government for ch
~ négotiations fall through; theUnied

a Tuk? ra

has done his part for black Africa. Se-

: _cretary ” ‘of State Haig said 14 No-
~ vember that “There is a basis for in-
creasing-optimism: that Namibia will
- be independent i in this.coming year.”

If a settlement is forthcoming the
United States could either fall back on

its sole ‘African ‘aiabe “and fur-

ther embrace the: South African g0-
vernment, ‘or it could pr

States “will at best,” according to
‘John, de S' Javre, “have lost all basis -
‘for communication with the states of -

black Africa on thesingle crucial pol-
itical issue for that.continent; and at’

__worst be: identified with South Africa
and i its racial policies.”

President Reagan’s ‘South African
policy seems to be at a standstill. The

White House has promounend very lit-

‘tle new policy. since last spring cand

has not commented.on the Rockefell-

ee Foundation’ s proposals. The prop--

- osals inchide applying economic ©

» pressure on the United States corpora- —

tions currently dealing. with South.

Africa, | full. implementation of the |

United States sponsored arms embar-  —

; 80, and increased aid to black Africa. -

_ The Reagan administration must.
‘soon decide whether to continue to
‘depend on the South African govern-
ment for reform, or to false a more.ac- —

- tive réle in bringing an end to apar: i
theid:

Rest

\.

“Africa will onl bb uly foe when Nami-: .:
bia-and South Africa also regain. their free- .
dom, . . . If it-were not for the intransigence of

. the. ‘South African government, Namibia

would already be free.’ But Namibia shall be ~
free, sooner rather than later..... . Similarly,
apartheid thust go. Human dignity must be |
restored to. the oppressed majority in 1 South
Africa.” .

- Kenyan President D. ‘Arap Moi,
Ae July 1981

With the advent of the man from Hollywood to the:
Oval Office, Africa’s hopes and aspirations for a free.
Africa —- an Africa freed of the yoke of colonial op- _
pression, of the terrors of white domination, of unholy _

sik —; m to’ be inexorably slipping away, ever
ie bla k man, a human being as qual-

other ae was born in, the liegt is an-

istration a I of new South Africa oe toliey one falical:

the agenda of the Organizati
(OAU's) annual summit held@in Ji
nya. coe eins

_ Resolutions were do

own. Decwation of Independence as a any.
forever thwarted from achieving these

erent from that of the Carter régime, and-one that
has caused much concern to Africa. ‘So much furor has
the policy a aroused that it We enon sit events on -

silos black Africans

Mahmoud Sayani BA

own making) seem to cloud his thinking and teduce his
concern for humanity..Africa cannot bes used only as
another move towards checkmate over the Soviets.
The people — the human beings and the rights due

them — must be taken into account- before making

brash policies and-rash moves. To be sure, South Afri-
ca is strategically important and alliance with it would
boost the U.S. Cold-War position in southern Africa,

and of course there is the supply of minerals — gold —
and diamonds — and economic links with, South Africa .
- to consider; But are the people not more important? -

But then, Reagan does not seem to know what

the situation in South Africa. feally i is: he has been re-

ported to say “The problem in South Africa is not ra-

cial, but tribal”.-Of course, he is. grossly misinformed.
“and sadly: unaware of me alps carried out daily i in|

South Africa, ©
What is the position of the black ‘Affican in South

Africa? He is denied choice in political association, the.
_ Tight to vote; to choose by whiom he shall be represent-
‘ed, the right to make the laws under which he and his

countrymen. live: He is constrained i in his right to hold”

meetings, g s and processions. He is subject to

arbitrary afrest and detention. South African laws per-

mit indefinite detention of a black African, during

: which time he can be interrogated indefinitely arid may >
Pe even disappear (i.e., Steve Biko). He is denied free- ©
dom of ¢ expression. 2 and information. He is denied free-

af movement — the black African needs permis- —
and a passbook to move from one place to ahother -

the: within his own country. And finally, the African does

i i tia Re = ER ch AS Lire:
Bdives uphthar rca. ag Mpa Se a courts :
a he

‘a pe tol live. te 8

fy seven petvent of the to- ©

the terms that the U.S. best understands: economic ‘em.
bargoes. The U.S. depends on Nigeria for 16% of its

- oil and has a. $12 billion trade deficit with Nigeria. If

Nigeria and several other African states simultaneous-
ly applied economic pressure, the U.S. would definite-
ly suffer a setback.. .
. Then, of course, is the danger that Reagan might
lose the very military supremacy in the Indian Ocean
that he is striving for. The recent agreement with Ke-
nya and Somalia to construct U. S$ ~ military’ bases at
Berbara [Somalian’ seaport], and use. of services at
Mombasa [Kenyan seaport] by U.S. forces could be

~ Jost if the U.S. does not compromise.

What else can happen? In South Africa itself, in-
stead of a peaceful transition to majority'tule,, there will
be increased military activity. Black Africa will re-

' spond with more.violent means to regain what right-

fully. belongs to its peoples. As Oliver Tambo, presi-
dent of the African National Congress of South Africa,
said in an African Report interview, “The wrath of the
people is growing. . . we have warned that the people’s

‘patience is not endless.” Other African states will de-
finitely assist, as seen by President Moi’ s appeal to Af-

rican states this summer.
* “Black Africans do not regard themselves as fancy
pawns in Cold War chess. They have become players

" in their own right....They ask that neither their friend-
ship nor their hostility be taken for gramed New! Work:
Times, 8/22/81).

Africa must be free. Its people’ must be alloived to
live like human beings. Apartheid — that shedder of
blood; that divider of mankind into’ the oppressive
edowed divisions of black and white; that snatcher of
the child from the weeping widow; That cause of end-

“Jess rivers of tears; that cause of anguish and grief; that
bringer of injury, torture, death to the black man; that
creation of the Devil himself = —_ apartheid must Bo.

~ Africa must be free.

° Finally, a mesage from Oliver Tambo: “we éculd
like to'see the: American people reject’the positions
- taken by the’ Reagan administration: of dragging the
U.S, into an ill-conceived and disastrous. with
the acist régime of Pretoria. This is‘a ‘principle chal-
lenge that Ronronts all right-thinking: Americans: BGO

. bo Mahmoud Sayani i isa sophomore Pees, major Frm
Kin Nairobi, Re cenya.” ine
