THE DAVIDSONIAN

ye em AL ce Ey 6 tae Se OE Ite Ue Ss
“ - . = 7° ~ Fe ie ° eae ae I wv -. °

Athletics: Bad Atmos

yuigcn'a ities ‘gman psa

‘The dismiss! of basketball coach Eddie Biedenbach has led to

a barrage of name-calling. and ugly. rumors. With Rupert
Murdochian zest, the press has scrutinized the College. They .
call Davidson a “graveyard for coaches,” and they describe the
basketball program as suffering from ‘an inner cancer.’

Whether Biedenbach merited dismissal, we cannot judge. But
his firing is just. another of a series of eybrow-raising events in
the athletic department's recent past. There have been a
remarkable number of such events in the past two years. -

For example, in December 1979, the College dismissed soccer
coach Karl Kremser. Kremser appealed his dismissal. His
players divided, attacking or defending him vehemently.

Rumors flew. Finally, Kremser left. He was subsequently

chosen Southern Conference Soccer Coach of the Year. .

Last March, Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill abruptly
resigned. He was given the Physical Education Director
Sterling Martin’s job, while Martin became director of the lake
campus. Again, rumors flew..

There have also been instances of tension between
intercollegiate coaches and athletes not involved in intercol-
legiate athletics. Last Spring several assistant football coaches
cursed and kicked the club soccer team off a practice field.

This winter Athletics Director Gene Bingham abruptly moved
many of the weights to a room reserved for intercollegiate
athletes. Meanwhile, people using the remaining weights are
often ordered out prior to the gym’s appointed closing time, and
on one occasion they were chased out so: that the basketball
team could have a place to mope.

We cite these examples not to exacerbate the problem, but to
show its extent. Every department has its ups and downs. But
this is a consistent pattern of confusion and tension in the
athletics department.

Last year, when $85,000 was cut out of the athletics budget,
some members of the department. ‘complained of the psycholo-
gical strain the money shortage would cause. But the problem is
not purely money. The $85,000 cut
administrative costs, did: not . actually lower the total amount
spent on athletics.

* Nor is the problem. purely pressure to win. Eddie Biedenbach
just led the basketball team to its best season in years.

It goes deeper, to. the relationships ‘and -attitudes of the
members of the department. mo

Last year, while conducting interviews in the athletics
department, we were struck by the unusually high level of
discontent among coaches, administrators and even secretaries.
Such discontent affects the way the department deals with
students and staff. . —

It is time for the Administration to examine the operation of
the athletics department more carefully. If the College is to get
its full potential out of its athletics staff and facilities, the
atmosphere must be a. a happier and more‘open one. ,

; ~Elizabeth Kiss

No Gratuitous Violence

Students here tend to regard themselves as a sort of moral
elite. We area ‘‘Christian community” abiding by the precepts
of the Honor Code. It is therefore a nasty surprise to find that
Davidson students throw concrete slabs down. stairwells and
_hurl grates through windows.

Yet these are just’a few examples of vandalism Housing

Director Bill Bolding cites in his letter to freshman hal! —

counselors. (see article page 2)

Vandalism is gratuitous violence. Even graffiti communicates
something, but vandalism of the ,siab-throwing sort only says,
“T destroy. ” .

If our dail stress is so great that we must release tension by
wreaking havoc, then it is time to reexamine our lifestyles. If

destruction is our idea of fun on a tipsy Friday night, then it is
time to reexamine our values.

Obviously only a small percentage of the student body
actually vandalizes property. But that minority could jeopardize
some of the most special characteristics of Davidson. Visit a
large school, with its locked classroom buildings, curfews, and

“keep off theGrass"’ signs, and Davidson's distinction becomes -

apparent. How long can this campus retain its relatively
rule-free atmosphere if the incidence of vandalism grows?
Hall counselors; Housing Directors, and campus policemen
can threaten the vandal. But it will be hallmates and roommates

who can effectively prevent the damage.
— Elizabeth Kiss

; mainly in the area of '

WELL, SINCE DAD CUT BACK ©

THE JUNGLE

FOR me !

N THE GUARANTEED
STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM, v LookS LIKE IT'S BACK To

The Campus Forum

Bathrooms

To the Editor: ;

We believe Davidson College
needs to upgrade the bathroom
facilities in Cannon dorm. Two
showers, three hooks, one shelf,

and _ one inaccessible outlet are.'

insufficient for thirty people.
We have spent too many mor-
nings waiting in line for the
showers only to find the hot
water gone.

The inconvenience is only
part of the problem, The facility
must make a poor impression on
visiting students. Many of
these prospectives assume they
will spend three years in Can-
non. The. condition of the
dorms does influence their deci-
sion. Although the construction,
of the new dorms will improve
Davidson’s housing situation,
this partial solution is not
enough. The old dorms need
attention.

Linda Nash ’83

Lisa Robinson ’83
Barbara Kelly ’82
Weezie Mann '81
Tracy Thompson ’83
Ellen Churchill ’83
Beth Herron ’83
Julie Cheney ’82
Sally Campbell ’82
Cathey Bost ’83
Karrie Buckner '83
Catherine McMillan '83

To the Editor:

It was interesting to read the
comments on women in the
ministry, part of a paper by Ms.
Kathryn Murray. Her research
was well presented with only

* one error: my name was mis-

spelled. Our family name has
been both misspelled and mis-
pronounced since the family
came to Mecklenburg County in
the 1920's. so I am only
surprised to find a new varia-
tion in “Ohen”™ for ‘Otten’.
This too ordinary error does
give me opportunity to offer
some unsolicited information
about Calvary Presbyterian
Church We think ot ourselves

as an old church in Davidson,
but realize we are often over-
looked by both town and gown.
That comes from living in the
usually gracious shadow of our
larger and more obvious sister
church, DCPC.

Calvary’s history begins in
1890 and is indebted to DC
students from its earliest days.
Students staffed this church
when it was a Mission Sunday
School; students served as pas-
tors when it was organized as
Unity Church. Today DC stu-
dents are largely unaware that
the church they helped develop
still exists. Still, remembering
that early helpful relationship,
Calvary's members and present
pastor invite DC students to
rediscover the little church at
the end of South Street. We
once again desire to be in touch
with the campus, perhaps to
serve as a training ground for
future church leaders or as a
church home during the college
experience. |

Calvary is a small, intimate,
friendly church. We see our-
selves us.‘'the Presbyterian
Alternative’ in Davidson. If
DC students have been looking
for a church where they can be
part of the total life of a
congregation, wé believe Cal-
vary Church may be the right
place for them. Come, try us on
for size.

Harriet Otten, Pastor

Hell Week

To the Editor:

Boy this week has sure been
hell. The DulDelts wouldn’t let
me off. their roof. The Peons
made me build a mountain. The
OK’s made me do laps at 2:45
a.m. The SAB’s roadtripped me
to L.L. Bean. But when the
Funji tried to roadtrip be, it left

them in stitches.
— Unidentified pledge

ROTC Ice Cream

To the Editor:

I saw several smiling, tanned
faces around campus this week;
I'll assume that a majority of
the ‘students enjoyed their
spring break. One way to cool
off after a hot day’s play in the
sun is ice cream, so on behalf of
the R.O.T.C. department and
the freshmen cadets, I want to
cordially. invite the entire fresh-
man class down to the R.O.T.C.
department in Basement Belk
and make their own sundae or
banana split Monday evening,
16th of March from 1800 to 2000
hours (6-8 p.m. for civilians).

We hope you will join us for
dessert and take a look at what
we do. Most of us are harmless
and the Cadre does not bite, so
won't you freshmen come
down?

Brad Perkins '84
ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN

DONALD CALDWELL MARK BARRETT

News editor Executive editor
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO JEFF MANN

Features editors Managing editor
JAMES BARRAT DAVID MCCURRY

Opinions editor : editor
DANNY PETER HAIRSTON

Cogito ergo sur editor | Business manager
™ ‘Sports editor “ :
iw s a0 Advertising manager

Back pege editor Circulation manager

BETHFINDLAY, JAMES MOORE.
POWERS: KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER; ‘CARTER VEST. -Graphics
assistants © LISA-BUCKLEY. JEFF DEMPSEY, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE
WALTER: Production associates @ BILL APPLETON.ED DAUGHTERY, JIM RUMLEY,
‘Staff artists @ SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Derteoomt technicians @DAVID BANKS
The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic
year (except holidays and examination periods). ‘by the
students of Davidson College. Mailing address: Box 218,
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 148
( office) and ext. 149 (print shop). Subscription rate: $8 per
year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class
postage paid at Davidson N.C.

