CHEZ DRe

Ki MMe

the owner of a “partial passive solar home”

asked, “Can we live in close harmony with
nature?” We can, he said, work with nature to warm
our homes by passive solar means.

C),

V illage Store proprietor M‘ Taylor Blackwell,
f

High Summer path of Sun
iry Southern sky

M’ Blackwell remembered, ‘When electricity
became plentiful in the ’30’s,
fashionable if you didn’t use electricity. Electricity
overcame the old fire in the hearth. Now, it is
interesting to see a change. It’s now fashionable to
use a woodstove or a fireplace.”

For a passive solar home, “sunlight is a helping
factor, but a bigger factor is insulation. Once the
energy has been. trapped, one. has to carefully
connserve that energy by good insulation.”

--M" Blackwell’s son, Waller Blackwell, is building

a Timberpeg solar home. Waller says that the solar

components. of this house will supply 85% of the
winter heat. An unusual component of this house isa.

continuous “blanket, of insulation” which is not

interrupted. by the traditional studs in the walls. This

house is ‘characterized by two solar collection areas

onthe southside, a‘ greenhouse, ‘and a two story

“sunspace. .” In the basement under the greenhouse is

‘the rock bed heat storage area. Heat collected in the

“sunspace” is blown through the ductwork to the rock

_ bed storage and baaspered: to ae Anterior of the
BS asa: A hpcinas wie

- From July, to November of. last: year Religion

~ Professor D’ Kaylor built a greenhouse on the south

side of his home in order to supplement the heat from
his wood stove: He did the construction himself using

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1961

you weren't |

the Solar Greenhouse Book as his guide. Before the
addition of his greenhouse, he burned four to five
cords of wood per winter. Last winter he burned only
two to three cords of wood. But “I am not finished
yet,” D' Kaylor said. “I would like to get a better

[Please turn the page]

=

o)y jee

in
22H ob =o

‘

HEAT STORAGE

NIGHTTIME ALR MOVEMENT

11,

photo by Eric Long ‘83
