A more modest proposal

Roy Fuller ’83 observes the canine community

great campus or through the Davidson communi

ty, when they see the streets, lawns, and endless
brick walkways frequented by mongrel pups, all
shaggy and importuning every passer-by for food.
Students, instead of being honest, are forced to de-
ceive Bill Bolding in order to house and sustain these
helpless puppies who will, nevertheless, be aban-
doned come Christmas break and summer vacation.

I think it is agreed by all parties that the prodi-
gious number of these campus dogs at the heels of
students, faculty, and townspeople is a very great

I t is a melancholy object to those who walk on this.

grievance; and therefore whoever could find out a |

fair, cheap, and easy method of making these canines
useful to everyone would deserve so well of the com-
munity as to have his picture placed in the Davidsoni-
ana room, his plaque placed next to Woodrow Wil-
son’s at the west end of the campus, and be men-

~ tioned in one of Dr. Davidson’s freshman orientation
lectures.

As to my own part, having turned my thoughts
for two years upon this important subject, and ma-
turely weighed the schemes of other projectors, I
have found them gross!y misguided. I suggest that a
puppy be left to depend on its mother for the first year
of its life. During this time the dogs can grow, and ev-
eryone can notice how cute the puppies are. It is at the
end of a year that I propose to provide for them in
such a manner as instead of wanting food and shelter
for the rest of their lives, they shall on the contrary
contribute to the feeding, and partly to the clothing,
of many. :

scheme, that it will prevent the constant copu
lation practices of many canines on the holy
ground in front of Chambers (which I am sure causes
several nineteenth-century Presbyterian ministers to
turn in their graves), and the horrid practice of neuter-
ing which is expensive and causes the animals to live
such unfulfilled lives. ;
Those dogs with specific owners who feed
them, groom them, provide. shelter .and provide
health care do not concern me. It is the problem of

T here is likewise another great advantage to my

campus dogs without full-time owners that I address. .

This latter group of canines is a burden to society.
While dogs do provide a means of transportation in
Alaska and:a means ‘of security if Sheep country, our

campus dogs only compete with each other, thereby ©

depleting their food supplies.

. I shall now therefore humbly propose my own °

thoughts, which I hope will not be liable to the best
objection. = ss :

I have been assured by a very knowing Japanese z.

gourmet of my acquaintance in Tokyo, that a young

‘healthy pup well nursed is at.a:year old a succulent,.

savory, and delectable dish, whether sautéed and

_ Simmered, braised Or basted; and Ihave no doubt that .
it ig equally scrumptious when served in acaserole or |

' Fdothérefore hunibly offer it to public consider"
- ation, that only four puppies (two male, two female).

ok a ae
Gm

10

may be reserved for breeding each year while.the rest

at the end of the year be offered for sale to local eating
establishments. I suggest:the Y-Student Corps head
up this project. Every spring, the Y will conduct a lot-
tery to fairly determine which pups will remain on
campus to mooch and procreate. The Y¥ will then hold

an auction to sell the rest to the highest bidder. A.

plump pup will make an‘especially exquisite dish if
marinated in orange juice and soy sauce or served

with bernaise sauce. I expect the Peregrine House and —

Gus’s Restaurant will participate in the bidding with a
few eating houses joining in. The proceeds would go

to. CROP and to the Joan Avery Society at the San

Diego Zoo, : et ere
’. To avoid:waste, the fur skins of the animals will

‘be used by the Y Corps to make coats for needy fami-

lies in the area. I should'think Dalmatian fur would
make a wonderful car coat, and Irish setter fur would

“+ <maké.a marvelous-lining for jackets.

. | think the advantages by the’ proposal which I
have;made are obvious and many, as well ig are
_» For first, as I have already observed, it would

~-€liminate the painful dog’s life led by so many of
«these mongrels. The four remaining dogs would have

little competition for food.and shelter. <~

fights‘and unplanned: sex education classes held on

DAVIDSONIAN /Friday 9:October 1981

Chambers lawn.

... Thirdly, it would provide healthy competition
between small businesses. Peregrine. and Gus’s
would be encouraged to continue their competition
by offering the new delicacy.

Fourthly, it would offer the new delicacy to the
entirecommunity.

Fifthly, it would provide money for CROP and
the Joan Avery Society. > as.

Sixthly, it would provide stylish. and. practical
clothing for the needy and a new undertaking for the
Y Corps.

. Tecan think of no objection that could possibly be
raised against this proposal. Nevertheless, I am not so
violently bent upon my own opinion to reject propos-
als by any wise freshman who knows the Davidson
Alma Mater and: Fred’s last name. Of course the
proposal must be equally simple and beneficial. -

I profess, in the sincerity of my heart, that I have
not the least personal interest in promoting this pro-
ject, having no other motive than the good of the Da-
vidson community, by encouraging small business,
feeding the hungry, providing for animals in San Die-
go, and relieving the pain these poor mutts have suf-
fered. I will receive no profits from this proposal, ex-

ittle competi wr food « _- © gluding the possibility that, as a member of Patterson
+ Secondly, it would reduce the number of dog. Cou

Court, I might get to sample this delicacy at a future

_meal.
