Pi ET

A, GE <e an

Straycats top UNC-CH |
in Club football

by Joe Ford ’82

There was a time when Davidson Club
Footballers would say, “If we only had a true
quarterback.” The team has found one, and he’s a
winner. Chip Fishback, a sophomore, led the
Straycats to a 33 — 8-romp over the Tarheels of
UNC-Chapel Hill.

Fishback used the sure-handed teceiving of Carl
Rist and a controlled yet explosive backfield of Allen
-Griffin and Mark Adams to tear up the Tarheel
defense.

Though the Cats controlled the first half both
offensively and defensively, they couldn’t find many
play that’ would end up in the endzone. It was a
Fishback pass to Rist for the first of his two
touchdowns that put the Cats up 8 —0. The Tarheels

came back and tied the game on a fluke reception by a
surprised Tarheel after the ball was deflected by
senior caption Alec Driskill. The half ended at 8 — 8
and the.Cats knew is was time to regroup and find the
magic to put points on the board.

Thie Cats came out in the second half revived.and
rested. It was the men in the trenches who proved to
be the focal point. On the offensive side, the linemen
fired off on the snap quickly which opened up holes
for the halfbacks to scoot and scant for two
touchdowns and more yardage than normallysseen in
a club football game. The line is made up of Eric
Crum, Doug Wiley, lan McClean, and Bud Aiken.
The Straycat defense, led by senior captains Steve
Shelby and Alec Driskill, forced two intereptions.
two fumbles, and a safety. The defensive backfield
and line units complemented each other well as the

two interceptions, were due to devastating pass rushes
which sacked the quarterback five times, and fumble
recoveries due to the strong sticks by the defensive
secondary. The defensive line was made up of Jim
Crowe, Eric Crum, Cyler Caulton, Rob Farley, and -
Terry Kurtts. The linebackers are Steve Shelby and

‘John McColl, and the secondary is made up of Alec

Driskill, David Proffit. Keith Evans, Bobby Barnes.
and Chris Norwood. Driskill and Barnes each had an
interception.

The game ended with Davidson scoring more
single-game points than it has in the last two years.
After the game, Alec Driskill, the coofdinator for the
Club Football team. said, “We played a good gamc.
We made some mistakes, but it was the best game
we've played in four years. Everyone was fired up.
and we realized our potential when we saw the points
on the board.”

IMAC with the Doughboys and the Slimshafts

Hotspots for Homecoming

Last Month we were commis-
sioned ‘by Head Grounds Mistress
Grover Meetze to compile-a listing
of places of interest in the Davidson
area. Henceforth arose the Dough-
boys and Slimshafts Guide to Wild-
cat Ffotspots.

Anchor Tavern: Located just out-
side town limits, this favorite drink-
ing spot of certain English and Ger-
man professors is really hot. Be sure
and say hi to Leo when you drop in to
buy a T-shirt but don’t go after
sunset because that’s when-it closes
down. KA’s never go there.

Buttery and Beanery: One of the fa-
vorite Sunday KA Hangouts (the
other is church), B&B is undergoing
rapid expansion. The newest addi-
tion to the staff is Should-be-Miss-.
America Angie Horne.

Cashion’s Bank and Trust: And
you thought it was a grocery store.

Actually it’s a front for a county- ’

wide belly dancing ring of gorgeous
high school girls..By the way, pos-
sum fritters are on sale this week.

Davidson College: Not very impor-
tant. Located across the street from
the post office.

Exxon: Popular hangout for former
basketball coaches. Has more soft
drink machines than South of the
Border. .

Fiji House: This renovated Pizza

‘Hut with purple doors has more drug

dealers than Bogoté.

Howard’s Grocery: The owner of
this place is so poor that the only
time he has tinsel on his Cliristmas
tree is when he sneezes on it.

Irwin Dorm: Due to the bovinous
coéds that inhabit this dorm its bath-
tubs have stretch marks.

ie

ote

Julie Vanderpool’s House: Speaks
for itself. This beautiful house re-
cently transferred from Georgia.

K and K: Great place for freshman
hall misers. Take plenty of penicil-
lin.

Little Dorm: Davidson’s version of
the United Nations. That hoola hoop

girl probably lives there as well as -

John “doormat” Shaw.

M and M: Houses more strains of
botulism than a medical school labo-
ratory. Great place for KA chapter
meetings on Saturday morning.

Nature’s Way Organic Food Store:

Supplier of alfalfa sprouts for Rusk’s .

salads.

Park’s Rexall: Oldest cashier since

‘Methusala. Geach moonlights as a

delivery boy.

DAVADSO RIAN Frehiy Ds OOO ABA.

Quincy’s: Future employer for all
Davidson football greats.

Rusk: Davidson’s version of a rodeo
when the ice cream tubs come out on
Sunday.

Spencer’s Car in His Backyard:
Eternal resting place for fossilized
bud feces.

T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z: Nothing; only
Bob Ruth could come up with stories
for these letters.

Next week the Doughboys and
Slimshafts will give explicit ac-

counts of their Homecoming dates.

In case that isn’t boring enough, the
SPE’s will have another band party.
And if you're still not asleep, you
can always read the rest of the paper
but be sure you check off each article
after you read it.

29
