8—The Davidsonian—April 24, 1981

Nick’s Flicks

One of the more frightening acecdotes to emerge from the
recent events ouside the Washington Hilton (so far unreported
‘in the American press, so far as I can gather) runs as follows.
When the Executive limousine sped off with its wounded
passenger, among the people sprawled on the ground was a
high-ranking military officer who carried in a brief case the
codes necessary for retaliation to an act of Russian aggression.
For over ‘half an hour this man was left of the Hilton pavement
and the White House had not he
slightest idea what had happen-
ed to him. Had anything un-
Nick toward happened, you would

Probeb vn be. reading this
now mention this sober-
Graham ing tale in order to encourage
.you to see next week’s Fine
Film Dr. Strangelove, (Wed. 8 pm m Love) which takes as its
point of departure just such an error, demonstrating how easily
this can be transformed into global sestruction. That this is
achieved in a monumentally funny film only makes the feature

that much more disturbing.

While we're on the subject of authority, Davidson cinephiles
have a rare treat in store for them this Saturday night. At 11 pm
Pop Films is showing entirely free a classic of the British
cinema of the 1960’s; Lindsay Anderson’s If. Starring Malcolm
MacDowell in one of his earliest roles, this powerful, well-paced
feature set in a fictitious English school. It concerns the lives
and fortunes of three sixth-formers who find themselves at odds
with institution of which they are a part. Caught in a limbo
somewhere above the persecuted younger boys and the seniors
(know as ‘whips’) who wield the real power in the school, they
rebel, gently at first, merely testing the principle of dissent.
Eventually they declare outright war upon the hierarchy in a
somewhat quixotic attempt to change their world. Made in
1968, If sometimes overdoes then-fashionable politics, but
director Anderson skillfully uses the system of the school as a
image of society in a series of long, impressionistic sequences
which describe the tribal life of such places in what I can assure
you is all-too accurate detail. American audiences will no doubt
find some scenes charmingly eccentric, but any laughter (the
film is never less entertaining) will be thoroughly silenced by a
final scene which is among the most powerful in all cinema.

Finally, the matter of the absense of Marlon Brando from the
screens of Davidson College this term. Lest the question of the
rights and wrongs of showing Last Tango in Paris be merely
allowed to be deposited beneath the nearest convenient carpet, I
should like, for what it is worth, to put my own views on record,
I do this as one who has made it his (shamelessly self-appointed)
task to encourage the showing and viewing of high-quality
cinema in Davidson, particularly European cinema, which I
believe is not given the kind of exposure it deserves here. To
my mind it is a shame, and hardly to the credit of Davidson
College that the masterpiece of one of the world’s greatest
directors is considered unfit for the eyes of students here. I
would call your attention the situation in the College Film
Society. which I helped run at Cambridge: there students were
considering mature (or stupid) enough to be shown films of high
quality irrespective of x-rating. Last Tango was a deservedly
popular feature, and played to packed houses. Compare if you
will the situation here: a brief piece of field-work in Little
Library revealed that many people were under the most
astonishing misapprehensions as to the nature, subject matter
and quality of this film. They will presumably now remain under
the assuption that an x-rating means only a writhing of thighs
on the screens of Love auditorium. Should anybody reading this
still have doubts about the quality of this film, Pauline Kael,
probably the finest of all contemporary critics, hailed it as ‘‘the
movie breakthrough” when it first played in New York in 1972
and concluded that the face of the cinema had been permantly
altered by this one feature. To call the banning of this film
tantamount to an apostasy by.an institution dedicated to liberal
learning and the dispelling of ignorance may be slightly
extreme: it is however most certainly an act of blatant
paternalism deeply insulting to the students of Davidson. Nor
can it be argued that the sanctioning of an x-rated film would be
out of keeping with the image of the College. One can deduce
from this powerful argument for a book-burning on Richardson
Plaza fuelled by much of the stock of Little Library. For any
college of the liberal arts to countenance the banning of such
an important film is an act of itellectual incoherence when the
next moring in Humes (or whatever) the same institution
teaches you.to admire the stand taken against authoritarian
censorship.by Galileo or Martin Luther...or even John Calvin.

The ban, however, will no doubt remain in force, and
Davidson will continue to present a dishonest image to the
world: one can hardly —alas—imagine the inertia of this place
allowing anything else, certainly not legal action by students
against administration as at Arizona or Northern Illinois..One is
almost tempted to say that Davidson students merely get the
movies they deserve: this is however certainly untrue: they
deserve much better, and at present are not gettin it. One hopes
that some- reasonable way could be found of changing this
ridiculous ban in the near future. As it stands it merely penalises
and demeans thé students of Davidson, and they are after all the
people for whose benefit films are shown in the first place.

Faustus :

By ANNE GOODWIN

Asst. Features Editor
Doctor Faustus a farce? More like a dry trag-
edy, I had always thought. But reading Christo-
pher Marlowe's play in English classes will be no-
thing like seeing the Davidson drama production.
“Although the theme has tragic potential,” Di-
rector and Drama Professor Joseph Gardner said,
“it has many farsical elements — it’s an hilarious

play!” Senior James Baskin, who will play Faust-'

us, agreed. Faustus ‘“‘is at once rediculous and
tragic,” he said.

Gardner said he found the play “exciting be-
cause of its blatant theatricality. It depends
much on the theatrical equipment for the portray-
al of the supernatural and the magical.” Baskin
noted that Doctor Faustus was “written to be
flashy.”

And flashy it is! Just seeing a dress rehearsal
was convincing enough. The lighting effects and
elaborate props are spectacular. I was mesmer-
ized by Mephistopheles’ first smokey entrance
with a snakes head and red, glowing eyes. and I
was amazed to see Faustus pull flowers out of
thin air.

Although Doctor Faustus is an Elizabethan
play, it ‘‘will not be done in Elizabethan style, as
we're trying to give the audience the sanie ‘con-
temporary’ experience that Elizabethan audi-
ences had,’’ Gardner explained. The costumes,
for example, are not from a single historical peri-
od, but are designed to fir the characters’ person-
alities. Imagine the Pope in a white knit suit and
pink shirt, and cardinals in red sunglasses.

Damnation was never so fun

The design of the stage is unconventional as
well. An addition to the stage projects out over
some of the seats, with some audience seating on

The play itself recounts the story of a renowned
scholar who sells his soul to the devil in return for
the knowledge and service of senior devil Mephis-
topheles. Faustus’ concern for present pleasure
blinds him to his future damnation.

Gardner and Baskin see several levels of mean-
ing in the play. ‘‘It is basically a morality play on
one level,’ Gardner said, about a man caught be-
tween medieval spiritualism and Renaissance hu-
manism. On another level it approaches a fantasy
with as almost nightmarish visual scene."’ Baskin
commented that despite Faustus’ scholastic bril-
liance, he has many defects in character. He
“threw his life away on a magic trick,’’ Baskin

Baskin also sees the playwright’s personal
struggle between theism and atheism presented
in the play. Although Marlowe's first studies
were in divinity, he turned from them and was
later accused of being an atheist. His conflict
between belief and disbelief is ‘‘a battle. ..present-
ed before the audience,’”’ which, Baskin said, is
never resolved.

Like the play, the production promises to be a
rich experience. It opens tonight at 7:30 with a
special student performance. It will run this
weekend and next— April 24, 25, 30; May 1 and
2—at 8 pm. Admission is $2.50 for students and
$3.50 for the general public.

Mephistopheles (John Richards) mesmerizes Faustus (James Baskin) with a puff of smoke in the
drama production, Doctor Faustus. The play opens tonight in Hodson Hall at 7:30.

Heat beaters

Be comfortable in polyester

Sero shirts
Handsome silk ties
Berle slacks

Izod knit shirts

from Haspel andAustin Hill

and cotton blends.
Grey pincord or Khaki poplin

Weejuns and boat shoes

Mack & Son

DOWNTOWN,MOORESVILLE
Come browse

Photograph by Pat Donley
