Ti he Kenyan Connection

Davidson alumni run Kenyan scl

An 1975, Crawford Crenshaw, a
Davidson student, stepped out of
school: for a year and came to. Kenya
because he was interested in Third
World development. A Quaker
- group, the Friends. World College,
bp contacts: to help him, find.a

th > "Kenya € Ccnnte-

tion,” It isan infornal arrangement of ~

friends recruiting friends and interest- .
ed::people.. finding. ‘contacts... Ken
Wood’ 's office. at. Davidson. ‘Serves: as

a an. information. center and. contact...
Point for these: hasan volt:

“Andy Miller ’80

n oe witty he

teers, though the work done in Kenya

- has: never been considered a formal
_ program of Davidson College. The
successes and failures have come di-. —

rectly from the students involved —

. both the actual: volunteers and. those

who anticipate in the talent shows,

‘spoof musicals, fund drives and other

projects: which aave = Supportes the

“wort here:.

" Bushiangala is is.one of the dates

‘stories. It is now:a school of over 600
students’ and this past year became a.

government-sponsored school, the

_» gdal-of all-young self-help schools in
Kenya. In: addition to the: constant
Stream: of teachers, Davidson: gifts -.

~ have helped sponsor: many Bushian-
gala. students with scholarships as.
‘well as played a major part in the con-
-sttuction of the: library, dining hall, .

7 laboratory; several staff houses and a
-dormitory.' From: Bushiangala, Da-

‘vidson.volunteer help spread through-

- Out® ‘Kakamega District. and now has

. am impact. in. many communities of _.

_ Western: Province: People. who work

with voluniteers here first determine if

>’ you're ant'Ametican-and then ask if.
: you ase Reece Cope. If the answer is.

negative, they then say, “Oh, are-

from that college?”
Not all projects where Davidson

- people have worked have been suc-

cessful: Sometimes the local commu-
nity never really gets behind the ef-
fort, or dislikes or misunderstands the

volunteer. In other cases people have -

come here with false ideas or: inap-

propriate expectations, or perhaps for

_» the-“wrong” reasons,° and the actual:
-conditons soon leave them: dissatis-
- fied:and unwilling to stay. The third

world ‘is. a ‘very: different. “one | from

where. we lived and grew up.
There are many reasons’ why'p Se0-
ple decide to. come to Kenya — ad-

‘venture, ambition, ’ searching, ;
idealism, growing.’ After the expe-
rience, no one returns to the U.S. the

same, as it is a powerful. cultural,
emotional -and personal challenge.

“For many it is difficult to pinpoint
within themselves just what exactly:
_ brought them here, for itis noteasyto —

be objective about motivations when

they are your own. In any case, the
life and work of this place cannot be

- easily forgotten. or dismissed, wha-

tever the future brings. -

., Students. have returned: from: Ke- ;

nya with many: different ‘reactions:

Some become cynical about develop= °
ment. aid and third world problems,
others become even more=idealistic :

i ools

and decide to pursue their life's work |

in a related field. All find the adjust-
ment back tothe U.S: much more dis-

turbingand difficult than coming over... e

te Kenya. The shock of how.much

America has and the watseful extrav-. ff.

agance of. accepted American’ lifes-

* tyles really hits hard. It is a glaringly © |
apparent fact and a difficult reality to

accept about your own home cin read ok
toms and friends. ~

"The educational: program at Da: Ee
-vidson ‘strives: to. emphasize: values
‘highly — pe
-\ marketable; quality: diplomas. The. F.
“success of this effort is evident:inthe —
large number of. committed and‘con- J
~ cerned individual graduates: whohave
gone on to distinguished carees of ser-.
vice. One. by-product of this effortis
. the-numerous student-conceived and >
': Sponsored: service programs: which’. |
have sprung up to allow Davidsonun- - |
‘dergraduates: to test their values and: ° |
live their ideals. STEP-tutors, the Y, °F

and: service’ while producing.

EMT's the Depot and many others are

examples close to home. The “Kenya. ‘ ae

Connection” is’ part of that same stu-

dent spirit touching another continent »-f -
in-another. world. The purpose of this —:f-.
~ weekly (if the mail permits) columnis cS
- to make that connection a bit stronger . |
and make’ all of our (you: at: neon a | 3
“ands here)*wWork’ closer’ ‘togethier:. I
hope what: we write interests you:

"December 14-20, Ro ee
10am to 6 pm ED “ANYONE Wire

GNOME
‘ ve

Cos Y wd

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981
