The new Chaplain

Charlie Summers returns to Davidson :

by Mary Shaffer ‘85

In the basement of the Union there is a chaplain
named Charlie. The Rev’ Charles A. Summers, a 1972

Davidson graduate, returned to the college in August to .

serve as College Chaplain.
Rev? Summers comes from a five. year pastoral

ministry at the Sixth Presbyterian Church in Washing- . ;
ton, D.C. where he served an integrated congregation. ~

He gained national recognition for his financing of the

church’s budget, and appeared on the NBC-TV “To-

day” show to discuss his work; Rev’ Summers explains

he was perforthing no finacial wizardry, but rather:

“Just reducing expenses in a way that helped be com-
passionate to the poor.’

At Davidson, Rev? Summers will serve as cha-
plain to students but will have no financial responsibili-

ties. Emphasizing that he is chaplain for all the students .

and not just the Presbyterians, he declared he is “here
for anybody who needs me.’

While he will occasionally preach at Davidson
College Presbyterian Church, and holds a weekly wor-

ship service there; Rev’ Summers is not officially, _

linked to the church. He wants “‘to-be very ecumenical
and work with all the local congregations.”

Filling a position vacant last year, Rev’ Summers
considers his new job a “continuation of the pastoral
ministry.” His involvement here will include organiz-
ing workshops, study groups, contemporary events,

~ Charlie Summers '72, the new college chaplain |

*
ripe

oe
sae

and Davidson Christian Fellowship, as well as holding
regular student worship. He hopes to become closely
involved with the students.

World peace and hunger are two issues with

» which Summers is particularly concerned. He hopes he

“can encourage students to think seriously about these
problems and develop sensitivity” to such issues as the
arms race and over-consumption. He stresses the im-
portance of Davidson students’ awareness of world-
wide problems because Davidson graduates “go all
over.”

_ Davidson alumnus
Rev? Summers matriculated at Davidson in 1968

_ as apre-med major. He earned his masters at Louisville

Presbyterian seminary. Since his ordination in 1976,

«his ministerial experience has included serving as a

street evangelist in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as well

~as working in various capacities at the Springfield Pres-

byterian Church in Jacksonville, Florida.

Reflecting on the change in Davidson since he at-
tended— “more buildings, young professors, more par-
tying, women”—Rev‘ Summers remarks, “it all seems
an improvement to me,” adding that it creates a more
relaxed atmosphere. .

Rev? Summers i is married (he met his wife Marcia
on JYA in Marburg) and has three children. A video
game nut and avid lover of ping-pong, he wants stu-
dents to know he’s here for them and added, “I’m ne-
w—I can use all the help I can get.”

hunger projects, and assisting in the Y Student Corps

‘The new minister

Frank Stith arrives-at the Davie

by Roy Fuller ‘83
The Rev‘ M' Frank Stith arrived in
Davidson ‘in:-June to serve as the new
minister at Davidson United Methodist
Church. He is replacing the Rev’ M™
Bob Combs who was the church’s min-
ister for the past six years. -

Rev! Stith received his A.B. and

Masters of Divinity from Duke and is
presently working towards a Doctrate of.
Ministry from Drew University. He is a
native of Winston-Salem and has most

recently served a Methodist church in

Valdese, North Carolina, ae i

His wife Mary Elizabeth is a certi-
fied medical assistant for a doctor in
Concord. The Rev‘ and Mrs. Stith have
two children.

He and his family have had little
problem adjusting to the Davidson com-
munity. “We have been very warmly re-

‘ceived in the Davidson area,” he said,

“and we really appreciate it.” He feels
that his early summer arrival helped him
adjust to his pastoral duties. “I got here

the last week in June. That gave me time .
to prepare: for the onslaught of the stu-”
_ dents and get. to know. ay own congre-. .

‘F rank Stith, We minister at the Davidson on United Methodist Church

.” sions.

on Methodist church

gation a little bit. It was a good breather
— an opportunity to know who my
members are before the congregation
got so full that I couldn’t tell who was
‘who.”
Students turn out

When September arrived in David-
son and with it a whole crowd of collegi-
ans, Rev‘ Stith was pleasantly surprised
to see many of them flocking to church.
“I am really shocked how many students
come. In my day, we didn’t go to church
that much. We had the Duke chapel,
and there were always these speakers
coming from outside on special occa-
. The music was always fantas-
tic. Still, I can’t imagine any of us going
to a small church like this.”
- Rev Stith is excited. about the
number of students interested’ in the

Fe church. “The church is full when the
*. ‘students are here. .

. They just come
stringing across the campus. It’s great. .

. I’m glad‘so-many students. seem to
feel at home in our church. I think it is
crucial.that you have a sense of belong-
ing to a church. You need to feel like
you're part of it.”

The influx of returning students

‘has not caused Rev4 Stith to readjust his

approach fo his sermons. “With school

just having started; I’m still feeling my
~ way along. .

. but’so far students have

responded to my sermons. .. «I tend to

preach to the church about building up

page.17./ DAVIDSONIAN /.Friday 2 O..ober 1981

the church, but apparently what I’ve
been saying thay have been able to app-
ly to their lives too. That’s what I pick
up from them, so I feel comfortable.”
Many Davidson students are ex-
tensively involved in different facets of
the church’s activities. “We certainly
invite students to plug in at any level
they want to,” Reverend Stith ex-
plained. “We have kids teaching in the
church school. We have a bunch signed
up to keep the nursery. We’ve got a cou-
ple of students that work with the child-
ren’s choir. . . . Some work with MYF
[Methodist Youth Fellowship]. They
are a great resource for our church.”

Sunday school

A Sunday school class is. offered
for college students. It:meets at 10 a.m.
in the student lounge. Tlie class has a
discussion format and the current topic
is “The Life and Teaching of Jesus.”
Rev‘ Stith hopes students will take ad-
vantage of the‘class.

He concluded with some perspec-
tives on his function and his intentions
for the future. “As far as my interests in
the church, I see my role basically as an

‘enabler,’ enabling the church to take
hold of its own ministry and not doing
the ministry of the church for the
church, . . What I have in mind is to find
what God has in mind for Davidson
Methodist Church and how our church
can fulfill our goal.”
