THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Authority needs.
questioning,

What justifies authority? And where should authority be
yielded? These are two of the most difficult questions
leaders and organizations face.

Too often at Davidson authority is its own justification.
Two weeks ago, the Davidsonian printed an article about the
College’s policy not to show X-rated films. The policy is not
a formal one; it grows out of a decision by Dr. Spencer in
1975 to prohibit the showing of a particular film. But it
prevented Pop Films from showing Last Tango in Paris this
spring. .

Dr. Spencer's justification for censoring Last Tango was
that the College felt X-rated films were not in keeping with
Davidson's image. Certainly all of us agree that smut does
not belong at Davidson.

But why did the College choose to censor al// X-rated
films, including such masterpieces as Last Tango in Paris?
Does the entire College community truly feel that all X-rated
films are impermissible at a liberal arts college? The
decision was a private one; we have accepted it with
unquestioning obedience.

This week the Administration vetoed the Religion
department’s decision to hire a candidate to teach New
Testament (see story, page 1). In this case the authority to
veto was Clearly legally justified: in the Code of Faculty
Evaluation Procedures the Board of Trustees gives ultimate
responsibility for hiring and faculty evaluation to the
ese and, after him, the Vice-President for Academic
Affairs.

Placing ultimate responsibility for hiring a scholar and
teacher on the shoulders of people outside the scholars
field seems peculiar. Large universities usually give
department chairmen final say in who gets hired. The
Trustees apparently feel that one individual must set
uniform hiring policy at a schoof as image-conscious as
Davidson. This, however, does not justify prohibiting
department chairmen from seeing the candidates’ letters of
evaluation. The Code does in fact restrict all letters of
evaluation to the President and Vice-President. Thus the
faculty and administration will be looking at different data
about the candidate, leaving much room for potential
conflict. Even if, for reasons of confidentiality, all the
members of a department cannot see candidates’ letters, the
chairmen certainly should beable to.

The Code deprives chairmen of this right. This does not
mean the Code cannot be changed. Liberal arts students in
the United States—the nation of the amendable constitu-
tion—should know that no authority should supercede
intelligent, contemporary judgement.

Energy,
channelling

‘This brings us to the second question of where authority
should be wielded. It is ultimately a question of energy:
_where do we channel limited human energy?

Today the College faces problems of finance, of an.

ever-fragile faculty morale, and of a growing sense that we
need to initiate curricular programs which will take Davidson
safely into the 21st century.

We have a hardworking and dedicated Administration,
laboring double time.now in the absence of a Vice President
for Development. Perhaps their energies could be focused
more toward these lecge scale problems, and less toward. the
policy questions faculty—and students—can handle just as
capably. ket us see if departments can take more
responsibility in hiring, and students. in deciding cultural
policy. To raise money, bolster faculty morale, and build an
Open community,-we need the undirected energy of the
Administration, ,

— Elizabeth Kiss

College Press Service
. <<

. SS y «
‘ -
Ca *s
ie ae)
i ft 7 :

The Campus Forum

Davis’ disturbed

To the Editor:

Re the letter from Nick
Graham and the curious little
piece by Didier Valery in the
April 10 Davidsonian:

1) Admittedly , Rob Campany
and I could have been some-
what more sensitive. It is rather
disquieting that ‘woman’ does
not once appear in two articles
about the legalization of abor-
tion. And ‘‘Man’s stomach’’ is,
perhaps, an infelicitous phrase,
and certainly contextually iron-
ic. It is not, however, ungram-
matical, nor is the meaning
unclear.

2) There is a stark distinc-
tion, which appears to elude
Messrs. Graham and Valery,
between the problem of abortion
per se, which is, ultimately, a
private affair, and that of the
legalization of abortion, which
is a pressing matter of public
policy. While the former quan-
dary may not directly concern

every citizen, it behooves each
member of society to inform

himself (or herself) of the salient
features of the latter issue,
particularly when a constitu-
tional amendment prohibiting
abortions looms large. Mr. Val-
ery remarks ‘‘one article in
favor of abortion, the other
against.’’ He might have read
more carefully. Neither article
is, in any important sense, for
abortion; rather, one article
favors continued legalization,
and the other opposes it.

To Mr. Graham’s assertion
that ‘‘it’s an act of extreme
arrogance for men to go shoot-
ing their mouths off about such
subjects when the voices of the
people closely affected remain
unheard,”’ I reply: horsefeath-
ers. This is a thoughtless and,
moreover, a pernicious sugges-
tion, and I am surprised that
Mr. Graham, whose wit and
perspicacity I admire, should
offer it. Men, as well as women,
must determine social and legal
policy; would-be fathers, as well

as mothers, must sometimes -
decide whether or not to request |

abortions. There is no reason
why. a husband should have any

less compunction about the fate —

of a fetus than his wife; we

would surely be justified in ~

regarding a husband or father
who was oblivious to the prob-
lem as callous and irresponsible.
I don’t mind disagreement: it

may be that our opinions were
“stereotypical,” or boring, or
inane, or wildly ethereal (al-
though we hope not). But the
expression of these views was
not intrinsically ‘‘arrogant.’’ To
contend, simply because we are
men, that we have no right to

present our views, is both
’ outrageous and patently false.

And, for that matter, sexist.
4) I detect, underlying the
sputterings of our distinguished
pundits, the erroneous assump-
tion that, since men never
have abortions, they cannot
comprehend the issue. This
approach strikes me as need-
lessly despairing. There is a
sense in which no human being
can fully understand another’s
problems and concerns. Each of
us is the unique product of some
combination of genetic and
environmental factors. Hence,
every attempt at communica-
tion begins with a strike against
it. But this situation is aggra-
vated and perpetuated by those
who seek to bifurcate society, to
divide it into classes and strata:
rich and poor, men and women,
white and ‘‘minority,’’ etc.

There is no single ‘‘woman’s
position’’ on abortion; women’s
opinions run the entire gamut
from the condemnation of con-
traception to the advocacy of
the legalization of infanticide.
Nor is every woman equally
concerned about the matter. Do
Messrs. Graham and valery,
because they are not Cambo-
dians, have no compassion for

the suffering of the people of.

Cambodia? If so, they are
ostriches. Would they have

been equally indignant if the

articles had been written by two
women who had never been
pregnant? Or by two women
who had been pregnant, but had
never undergone abortions? |

5) Mr. Graham states that
“One is left to draw two
conclusions from this: either no

woman was asked to write on

have no opinions in the matter
whatsoever.” Neither conclu-
sion seems to me at all justifi-
able, nor are these the only
conclusions open to us. Surely
Mr. Graham has a more fecund
imagination than is here exhi-
bited. Actually, no one was
asked to write about anything;
Rob and I, having written the
papers for a class, volunteered.
Cogito ergo Sum editor Danny
Armistead ‘welcomes material
from everyone, regardless of
sex. And it doesn’t follow that,
as a result of that article in that
edition of the Davidsonian, no
Davidson women have any 0-
pinions about abortion. There
are probably several thousand
topics which could be fruitfully
addressed in any single issue of
the newspaper; the Opinions
Page can present but one, and
but one or two viewpoints
concerning it. It is pointless to
attack the newspaper and the
entire student body for what
has not appeared on the
Opinion Page. As Messrs..
Graham and Valery recognize a
crying need (and, perhaps,,
there.is one) for another side of
the problem, then by all means
let them write the appropriate
articles, or, rather, in this case,
let them find women who will
write them, as they, being men,
clearly have no opinion on the
matter. I suspect that such
articles may be immeasurably
more instructive than_ill-
considered letters, or murky
and sely-pitying parables about
orphans.

6) Finally, the only aspect of
this whole affair that really
irritates me is Mr. Valery’s
nasty aspersion that affiliates
Rob Campany and me with ‘‘the
pink and green country.” This
vicious suggestion, if true,
would be, perhaps, telling; hap-
pily, it is false. Mr. Valery is
well enough acquainted with
our wardrobes, such as they
are, to know better. Shame on

the subject, or Davidson women John Davis ‘81
ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
Editors
MARK BARRETT

TIM WHALEN . R
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO JEFF MANN
JAMES BARRAT DAVID MCCURRY

"DANNY MGuatEAD DAVID MCCURRY

. ergo sum editor Business manager ,
JIM CROWE WARREN LACKEY
editor : manager
IVY GOODMAN SCOT MYERS
Back page editor. Circulation manager

POWERS, LAURIESOPER, CARTER VEST

MARGARET JACKSON, Production manager @ ANNE GOODWIN
features editor @ FRANCES PALMER, Assistant news editor © MARY
BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETHIFINDLAY. JAMES MOORE,

Gann ee @ ELIZABETH BRAZELL,
” LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF DEMPSEY, JULIE GIBERT, DAVID PRETTYMAN, KAREN SANDLIN,
& BERNADETTE WALTER, Production associates @ BILL APPLETON, Jt

artists @ SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom technicians @ DAVE BANKS, Nihil e

, Assistant
WOMBLE
SCOTT

UMLEY, . Staff

