Ray Sinclair

How to break your own record every Saturday

How many guys do you know who hold almost
“every school rushing record conceivable, build on
it every Saturday, and still say, “I can do better.”
That sounds like Ray Sinclair, and that’s exactly
who it is.

For those of you who haven’t figured out just
who Ray Sinclair is, I’ll give a few hints. If you’ ve
been to a Davidson football game, he’s the guy
who carries the ball a lot and has a number 42 on
his back. You know, the one coaches are always
calling a “bruising fullback.” If you still don’t
know who he is, got to the next home game and see
for yourself that this guy can play football:

But all that’s in the present. Let’s take a look at
the past to see where all that came from.

Ray played high school ball at Andrew Jack-
son High, in, ironically, Jacksonville, Florida,
where he ground out over 2,600 yards in his ca-
reer. (Sound familiar! He’s foing the same thing

here?) Ray was an All-conference, All-area, and .

All-region selection for high school.
- Then he ventured north to Davidson, where he

had sort of a hard time adjusting to things. “When I -

first came here, I didn’t think I could fit into the of-
fense. After many mistakes, I found I could do it.”
Actually, it didn’t take him all that long to adjust.

His sopohomore year was a banner effort, as he led

the team in rushing.

The sophomore year was fine, but it was his
junior year that put Ray Sinclair on the map.

Things really.got rolling when the team steam-
rolled Southwestern and Ray rolled up 222 yards,
a single game record at Davidson. Sinclair wasn’t

about to stop there, however, as he had seven 100- ©

plus yard games last season. Oh, and as far as the

Ray Sinclair against Lafayette in a familiar situation: gaining yardage. The big fullback now has 2,669 yards, a school record.

season goes, he dawdled with the school record

~ books again. His overall rushing yardage last year

totaled 1,339 yards (a DC record) and he did that
on the strength of 254 rushes, also a Wildcat re-
cord. Get the picture? The guy’s a record-breaker.

‘But Ray doesn’t pretend to have. piled up all

_ those impressive numbers without help. “The guys

on the line are hard workers, and with Alvin [At-
kinson, a star running back] out I felt I had to carry

the weight of the running game.” Those were two.

of the reasons Sinclair finished last season with
2,084 career yards and 3™ on Division I-AA in
rushing yet another record with Ray’s name beside
it. But lest Ray allow us to think otherwise, we
won’t overlook a tertiary reason for his stats. Ray
himself.

Making it for himself

Sure, it helps to. have ogres on the offensive
line who open holes fit for a freight train and a
flawless air attack that keeps the defensive secon-
dary solely occupied with pass receivers, but Ray
has neither of these. When the. gaping holes aren’t
there, he has to make them himself; and when its
impossible to make holes open for himself, he has
to anyway. But that’s how to rate a good back —
how many yards he makes after the first hit. Sin-
clair doesn’t quit. He keeps pumping those power-
ful thighs, and‘at 5’ 10” and 227 pounds he’s no

lightweight: He gets in there and slams his body —

around and: scratches and claws for every inch of

_ that precious turf. And above’ all, he doesn’t get

hurt.
So that brings us to the present. And. what’s so
remarkable is that every time Ray carries the ball,

he’s changing the record books. For instance,
what last year was a career record 423 rushes is
now 582, and after Saturday will be somewhere
around 605. Remember 2,084 yards as the career
yardage mark? That’s ancient-history. The number
is now 2,669 and still growing. With a little luck
he’ll break the 3,000 yard plateau.

S_ Defenses key on Ray .

But with all that under his jersey, people
wonder why Ray has only one 100 yard rushing af-
ternoon to his credit this year. The obvious answer
is that opposing defenses are keying on Ray. Bos-
ton University was so preoccupied with Sinclair
that they forgot Davisdon quarterback Brian ‘Whit-
mire had a@functional arm.

But these slow afternoons with heaps of bodies
strewn in his way don’t get Ray down — he
doesn’t set goals. “I believe that whenever I get in-
to a game the outcome is already set. All I can do is
try by best. If I don’t gain 100 yards, I don’t gain
100 yards. But I’m always trying my best.”

But does Ray’s best get a little better for any
particular opponents? Not really, but “I like to play
teams that feel like they’re dominant forces.
There’s something in it when you beat Boston,
Bucknell, or Lehigh.”

That pretty much brings us to the future. But
for now much of the future is still far off. “I'll
probably go to grad school later on in my life,” af-
ter a year or two off. Law school and business
school hold special interest for him. As far as foot-
ball goes, he figures to be an All-American only if
the team does well. And the pros? Well, he’Il wait
and see.

ee 7 eeiiny 30 October 1981

‘

ew an ae
Vanier ras ie. * . ee ‘ Dim re kheeben tes
. - ~ 4

ta
an)

'
ws
