Senior John Shaw rappels Australian

Top brass
Gyauch, Shaw, and

by Roy Fuller ’83

Instead of sitting at home this summer watching
General Hospital and munching Doritos, could you
have done the following:

|) Stop a ruptured artery in 30 seconds?

2) Disassemble a M-16 rifle in 30 seconds?

3) Assemble a radio in 30 seconds?

4) Do 40 sit-ups in two minutes?

5) Run two miles in 13 minutes?

Well, the seniors in ROTC performed these
skills and many more at Officers Training Camp this
summer. While many college students simply
watched Luke and Laura fight to survive on an
imaginary island far, far away, ROTC seniors were
actually learning practical survival and military skills
in Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Davidson ROTC
cadets Ellen Gyauch, John Shaw, and Jeff Wright, all
seniors, received - high rankings for -their
achievements at the training camp.

Ellen Gyauch

Cadet Major Ellen Gyauch finished in the top ten
percent of all female cadets at advanced camp. She
ranked third in her platoon of 50 cadets and fifth in her
company of 200. Only.thirty women were in her
company of 200 cadets. —

” Ellen’s ranking was determined by _ her

- performance in all the activities of the camp.
‘“Recondo day” checked physical ability. Ellen said,
“One of the activities included dropping forty feet
from a rope into the river. . . . | admit that was the
most scary time for me.”

Being placed in command without notice (or
sleep) checked leadership skill under pressure. The
Military Skills Test evaluated ablity to think quickly
and respond. In the fourteen stations of this test, Ellen
performed such duties as disassembling a M-16 rifle,
assembling communications equipment, applying
first aid, and calling for artillery fire. Time limits
were short. ;

Ellen was one of two girls in the entire camp
who missed no points. No other Davidson cadet had a
perfect score. “It was a high pressure day,” Ellen
said. “I had all sorts of military officials following
around at the end test. My Davidson experience:
really helped here.”

Overall. Ellen reflects “you don’t ask yourself

photo by Eric Long "83"

DANINSQNIAN / Friday 23, October 1981

