SGA Corporate Relations

To the Editor:

It has become a weekly occurence that as we
glance through the Davidsonian, we cannot help but
__ be frustrated by continuing inaccuracies and attempts
to create controversy.

The most disturbing example occured i in the Da-
vidsonian of October 23, in M‘ Siman’s editorial en-
titled “The Great Job Hunt.” In this editorial, the edi-
tor stated that the SGA, specifically its Corporate Re-
‘ations Committee, is extremely dissatified with the
job, M‘ Ken Wood is doing in the Carreer’s Office.
The implication that we would like to see M' Wood
fired, which the editorial fostered, is inaccurate and
has been the most difficult untruth for the SGA to re-
fute. No one has questioned the extremely fine job
whic!s M' Wood has done in the area of experiential
programming. Innovations and programs begun here
at Davidson by M" Wood have been adopted by the
college Job Placement Offices throughout the state.

The issue which the SGA has been questioning
over the past year has been the College’s, not Ken
Wood’s, commitment to job placement. The image
that M* Wood’s job is tenuous can do nothing but fur-
ther undermine the effectiveness of his office and
hinder the credibility of.the Job Placement Program,
which M‘ Wood has been working so hard to im-
prove.

Over the past several years, the number of stu-
dents entering the job market directly from Davidson
has increased from about 15% to almost 50% at a time
when the size of each class.has also increased. Mean-
while the College’s Job Placement Office and staff
has not increased in 8-10 years. The end result is that
demands from students on the Carees. Office for job
placement has tripled, according to M‘ Wood.

In order to assess the merits of student criticism of
the Career’s Office, as well as to determine possibili-
ties of increasing staff, the SGA and the Dean’s Of-
fice brought in two professional consultants to Evalu-
ate the College’s Job Placement Program. The results
reconfirmed M‘ Wood’s excellence in the area of ex-
periential learning. The report also concluded that
many of the student criticisms of job placement were
valid. Mest. significant among their recommenda-
tions is the conlcusion that the College requires addi-
tional personnel in the specific area. of job placement.
Had M" Siman- made any effort to get the complete
picture by contacting any member of the Corporate
Relations Committee, he would have been more

aware of the actual intentions of the SGA and the .

CRC.

Chip Legerton,
President SGA

Andy Brown,
President Senior Class

GDI- — join or die

To the Editor: ; |
On July 4, 1776, the thirteen Aabiavicay cblbnied;

already in revolt-against their: mother country, de-.
clared their independence-from Great Britain: In the
winter of.J.7.741778, Washington: ‘and a small band

- of rugged warriors faced a slow de: thi from. Starva-
tion, disease; and misery-at:Vak x sorge:!:.° la
In 1984-Davidson Gollege witnesses a-similar his-

toric event. The Valley Forge — Richardson and Bai:

ley — is over, and a new coalition of leaders ‘has
_ emerged. These standard-bearers have united’ under
the banner, of Gamma Delta Iota to prevent the abhor-

ee okt

rences of starvation, disease, misery and Chatham
from rearing their ugly heads again. The order of
Gamma Delta Iota is dedicated to the principles of in-
dividualism, culinary excellence, and the Commons
man. The order has been blessed with its Washing-
tons, Jeffersons, and Hamiltons. We now summon
heroic individuals who share our same ideals, to take
up our ensign and march toward a path of glory and
light in a cause destined to triumph and flourish for
eternity.

The Order of Gamma Delta Iota

Slagle’s Thanks

To the Editor: | (
I would like to express the appreciation of th
Soccer Team and myself for the support we received

this year. The student body, faculty, staff‘and people,

of the community helped us to have one of the better

Soccer seasons Davidson has had. I anticipate that

next year we can field another very competitive team
that will warrant your continued support. Thank you.
_ Charlie Slagle,

= Soccer Coach

ROTC Blood Drive

To the Editor:
On behalf of the Davidson College ROTC De-
partment and the Scabbard & Blade Society, I would
|

like to thank the ladies of the disstaff who provided
invaluable assistance at the blood drive. I would also
like to thank the following local businesses for donat-
ing prizes: King of Pizza, the Little Kitchen, the
Meeting Place, the Chef’s Cap, and Anheuser-
Busch. A special thanks to all those who came out
and “saved someone's Tife” on November 2.
Russell G. Snipes, Jr.

Cadet OIC Publicity
Fall 1981 Blood Drive
Lost and Found
To the Editor:

Hi. Johnny, do you know that there are hundreds
of students who will suffer, chills, thrills, and pre-
bronchial spasms before the term is out? Suckin’ Sas-
safras! the Lost & Found is full of sweaters, jackets,
and sweatsuits. I shudder to clean up after an event
these days because I know that two or three more or-
phaned polyesters will be found. One in ten is
claimed. Please, Johnny-boy, tell the students that if
clothes are left in the Union for more than 12 hours,
they are placed in the closet behind the desk. Like-
wise, prescription glasses, tapes and tape cases, je-
welry, and other goodies await you. So come on
down, y’all. Thirtk what'll happen if you have to ask
Mom for a new coat. Redrum, redrum.

Dave Webb
Union Staff

The Sierra Club presented the one
million-plus signatures they had col-
lected for their-petition calling for res-

~ ignation of Interior Secretary. James.
Watt to Congress last- month. The sig«
natures collected by Davidson's PIRG

Heres

'PIRG did not send the petitions be-

cause they. felt they had not collected

Davidson, N.C. PIRG petitions.
not yet mailed to Sierra Club

- Geof said:PIRG will soon send.the sig-

‘ters'in California, and he will send co- .
‘pies of them to: North Carolina Repte-"

chapter’ werd hot’ among thiém. David-"
‘sentative Jim’ Martin, who’ represents:

gon’ PIRG presidént Geof Little’ said

One camEeRE yA

enough to make a difference and they
hoped the publicity from the presenta-
tion would attract more signatures.

natures.to the. Sierta Club: headquar-

Davidson. °

a $ .
