oops ©

After struggling last year, the Lady Cats are

vastly im

‘This year’s Wildcat team is Tooking optimistically

towards their upcoming season. The 81 — 82 edition of

the team is much improved over the 80 — 81 team. Not
‘having to adjust to a new coach and a new system this
year (Coach Mayes is back as head:coach, with Coach
Boyer.as assistant), plus having a good number of re-
‘turning, experienced players, has allowed the team to
stait out the season at a “higher level” of play than last

roster (mainly Kirby Owens, a senior, and Harriet Hof-
shuijsen, an exchange student), the team has a solid nu-
cleus .of experienced players around which to build.
These rétuming. players, who according to Coach
Mayes, “are already much improved since last sea-
son,” include Mitzi Short, Jeanne Womack, and Mike
Frankhouser. wea g -

This year’s team will also have much more depth
than last year’s. The addition of Anne Elliot, a wing,
after Thanksgiving, will help with the outside shoot-
ing, as will newcomer Kathy Bray, also a guard.

- Another freshman who will really contribute a lot is
Wally Howell. She will be a good complement to Mike

on the inside and should alleviate some of the double

x % 3 eee

Davidson’s field hockey team finished this year se-
cond in the region (AIAW Division II) by defeating
High Point 2-1. The Cats were stopped in the finals by
a 2-0 loss to Richmond in the regional tournament.

High Point had already defeated Davidson’ twice »

during the season, and led 1-0 at the half in the semi-fi-
nal regional game, Five minutes into the second half-
the Wildcats launched an attack on the goal that result-
ed in.a score by left wing Sarah Hart. With seven min-

utes left in the game, junior Amy Crittenberger gave:

Davidson its winning goal on a penalty stroke. “Both

teams played well,” said’Coach Mayes. “They were

: ‘Having only lost:a few players. from last year’s .

d-and looking to a good season

teaming on Frankhouser. .

_.y) The: strength of the tearh appears to lie on the in-
side, where that combination of Howell and Frank-
houser already seems to be working out well. But
- Mayes is trying to develop-some more outside shooters
in order to loosen up opposing defenses and keep them
from keying on the big players. Despite the presence of
-the big rebounders, it doesn’t look as if the team will be
relying too heavily on the fast break due toa lack of ex-
ceptionally fast guards. Look more fora control type of
game, with alot of board pounding and second and
third: shots on offense. ~ : ,

- What is really hurting the team right now is the loss

of two players, Rebecca Bates, a freshman and Carol

Heppner, a‘retuming junior, to knee injuries. Mayes
explained, “These players would really help us a lot.”

. It-isn’t known exactly when they will be back: Becca

will hopefully be able to play again at the beginning of
January, but Carol isn’t expected back until later in the
season. The loss of Carol is a heavy blow, as she is are-
turning starter, capable of helping ‘greatly both the in-
side and outside games in addition to being a real team

Despite these losses, Mayes and Boyer are both op-

/

<ey second in regionals

Loses to Richmond in Division II Tournament Finals

faster than we were, so defensively we had to antici-
pate their moves. That’s why we beat them.”
Richmond came on-strong in the regional champi-
onship- game, preventing Davidson from. building
some heeded offensive momentum. “We had a good
attitude going into that game,” Mayes explained. “Ev-
erybody thought we could win, but we didn’t play as

well as we could have. Richmond played one of their _

best games. I think we could have beaten them on

.another day.” Davidson’s shots on the goal wére fewer

than they would have liked, but all were well executed.
Junior Mebane Atwood played a notable game at

timistic about the season. According to Mayes, “Over-
all we're a much better team compared to last year, but

- this year’s schedule is much more difficult’ than last

year’s.” : o ve
The reason for the tougher schedule this yeat is that
most of the other Division III ALAW schools jh the area
left the league, so the Wildcats were forced to pick up
‘games with other nearby schools, who play:Division
IL. Meredith is currently the only other school in NC
besides Davidson in AIAW Division. I: The two
teams will meet twice during the regular season; and
once in post-season play for the State Championship.
Oni the whole this year’s team is, as Mayes puts it,
“much. more optimistic .and confident in their skills
than last year’s; and even though there are no seniors
on the team there are still a number of exceptional lead-
ers among the juniors.” me
_ The Wildcats first home game will be tomorrow
night, at 7:00 pm against Catawba. This will be the on-
ly home game before Christmas bred®, so don’t miss
your only chance in 1981 to.come out and:cheer the
women’s team to victory... OR,

By Kara Gilmore ’85 oF

we

sweeper. oo
Davidson finished this season second in’ both the
state and the region. “We got a lot of support this year

_ from our fans,” Mayes added. “It made a difference to

the whole team, and we really appreciate it.” The hock-
ey team had seven new players (five freshmen) and no
seniors playing this season. Most of the team will be re-
turning next year. Look: forward to. an exceptional
team. : , ek anes

by Jim Northrup '82 and Kara Gilmore "85.

Although Ray’s honors are somewhat belated, the
senior from Jacksonville, Florida, is the Davidsonian’s
Athlete of the Week. Ray closed out his already stellar
career as he rushed for 260 yards against highly-touted
, . Catawba. The. yardage gave Ray 1,001 yards on the

Len : / = season, giving him a career total of 3,085 yards, a'pla-

GSE ae ee “Ft teau reached by no Wildcat before him. Ray will be
ei Be - _. awaiting the pro football draft with real hopes of being
picked. ae F

Aah of the Weak

1981" ee Oe
