Inspecting perimeter houses suits for students?

by Pete Gulyn ‘83

This is the first of two articles onthe future of the
perimeter houses. Staff writer Pete Gulyn compared
the perimeter houses with the standards in the minim-
um Housing Code for Mecklenburg County. These
are his findings.

Most of the College’s perimeter houses now
meet or surpass the minimum standards of the Hous-
ing Code for Mecklenburg County (1978).

The most serious problem is the floor in Lafferty
House, the 3™ house back from the stoplight on Main
Street, which was so weak that senior Marvin Rogers
broke through it the first week of school. According
to Lafferty resident senior Jim Troutman, “he merely
walked into the closet to get something,” and without
jumping or making any quick movements, suddenly
stepped through a rotted floor board. The Housing
Office had the hole repaired promptly.

Troutman said that when the sun shines under-
neath the house in the morning, he can see the light
between the floorboards.

Section 4.A. of:the county’s Housing Code
states, “floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting
members and strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.”

Some of the floorboards in Lafferty sink more
than an inch when stepped on, indicating that they
amy become unsafe to walk on.

While Lafferty is the only house with loose

floorboards, floors in other houses also give slightly.
In order to protect their records from skipping when
someone walks by, some people hang their turntables
from ropes attached to the ceiling.

Both halves of Lafferty House had a flea infesta-
tion earlier this year. Section 4.B. of Housing Code
gives the owner of any multiple dwelling the respon-
sibility to “maintain the dwelling in a reasonably ro-
dent-proof condition” whenever two or more dwell-

Buying term papers

ing units are infested. If only one unit is infested, the
occupants are responsible.

photo by Eric Long ‘83

The College had Lafferty sprayed against fleas -

once this year, according to Troutman, and the prob-
lem has disappeared.
Residents of Martin Manor South, which is on

[Continued from page 1]

you'd -like reviewed.” The company ~

would write the paper on undergradu-
ate, advanced undergraduate, or grad-
uate level, and would include foot-
notes and a bibliography upon request.
General custom research costed $8 to
$10 a page, and “thesis assistance”
costed $15 per page or more.

A Seattle postal inspector said
complaints from colleges and universi-
ties concerning students’ handing in
Pacific Research papers as their own
work prompted their legal action. Mr.
Mohr said that on 27 May the Postal
Service obtained an injunction stop-
ping all of Pacific Research’s mail con-
taining orders or payments.

10,000 different paper topics

Pacific Research has been in busi-
ness “about ten. years,” according to
the spokeswoman. The company still

sells papers from its catalog. The 1980
catalog had over 10,000 entries on sub-
jects ranging from finance, account-
ing, and auditing to Oriental literature.

Students can also have the com-
pany edit their papers. and return the
improved versions. The catalog says,
“No matter how poorly you write,
we’ ll manage to transform yuour prose
into a quite acceptable form. . .. And,
for a small fee, we'll retype your pa-
per, incorporating all the changes
we've suggested.” Students can also
buy outlines and annotated bibliogra-
phies from Pacific Research.

According to an Associated Press
article released: last. weekend, Pacific
Research advertises in college newspa-
pers offering, “a solution at last to the
students’ term paper problems.” The
Davidsonian has never and will never
print a Pacific Research advertise-
ment.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October.1981 '

‘

7

the corner of North Main and the road leading to the
dorms, have ants instead of fleas. The problem cen-
ters on the kitchen where ants swarm over any food
left on the counter in a matter of minutes. Residents
avoid the ants by placing food on the stove where ants
cannot find it. The men living in Martin Manor sub-
mitted a work order to have the ants exterminated last
week.

The residents of Julia Johnson House, which is
the fourth house down from the stoplight on North
Main, are privileged to have a colony of honey bees
in one of their outside walls. Junior Jeff Kistler can
hear the bees by putting his ear “up to a cup on the wall
in his room.

The other houses all seem structurally sound and
free of infestation, although lesser problems surface
frequently.

The heaters in Martin Manor function only spo-
radically, and residents of Harding House which is on
the south side of Lafferty, have the additional prob-
lem that only the first few rungs of each radiator be-
come hot. Section 5.B of Housing Code requires
heating systems “of sufficient capacity to heat all hab-
itable rooms...” to 68 degrees “..:during ordinary
weather conditions.”

Section 5.A. of the Code also specifically re-
quires an “adequate supply of a both hot and cold wa-
ter.” Many of the houses suffer from low water pres-
sure. In Julia Johnson House, the upstairs shower on-
ly trickles if the downstairs one is in use.

The perimeter houses are not overcrowded. Cal-
culations using Housing Office figures on the total
number of perimeter house residents and data on floor
and ceiling area gathered by PIRG for last year’s
Energy Conservation Survey indicate that there is an
average of approximately 146 square feet of floor
space per person. This compares favorably with the
County requirement that there be 150 square feet of
floor area for the first occupant, 100 square feet for
each of the next three,and 75 square feet for ee~h ad-
ditional occupant in a dwelling unit.

~,

Quific’ “ROSATO

1980

J
Ca Ci Lge ae “Kes LUC)

t
md |
t 5

Ok
V; T “ING. vy, 1, Wha
