THE DAVIDSONIAN

In Veritate Magna Vis

Volume LXX, Number 20

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina

April 3, 1981 .

Fred, everyone's number One mutt, is profiled this week. See

article page 9.

(John Krotchko)

Irwin and Knox dorms will
open doors in September

By CAMBRIA MELTON
Staff Correspondent

The College’s two new stu-
dent residence halls, Mary Ir-
win Belk (Irwin) and Peter
Knox (Knox) halls, will be
ready for occupation by Sep-
tember.

Physical Plant Director Gro-
ver Meetze estimated the total
cost of the new dormitories at
$1.2 million.

Each of the identical two-
story brick halls will house 54.
students. Knox will house men
only, and Irwin will house men
on the first floor and women on
the second. Each of the rooms
in both halls is a double. All
students, except freshmen, will
have a chance at drawing a
room in Irwin and Knox during
the housing lottery to be held
April 9 and 10. A room in these
new dorms will cost $885, as
will all other doubles on cam-
pus.

Construction on the two new
dormitories, located behind
Patterson Court, is running
ahead of schedule. ‘‘We’re only
waiting for the furniture,’’
Housing Director Bill Bolding
commented.

The dorms are both centrally
heated and air-conditioned and
have a carpeted lounge as well
as kitchen facilities. Other fea-
tures include carpeted halls and
new lighting designs...Bolding

commented, “They’ re really

looking sharp.”

Although there are no sinks
in the 11 X 16 foot rooms, bath
facilities are convenient to clus-
ters of rooms.

Each room has two double-
hung windows and is furnished
with wood-and-wood product
loft system. With this system,
students may stack and arrange
furniture for lofts or for twin
beds. This provides for ample

(See page 11)

Legerton sweeps SGA presidency

By MAHMOUD SAYANI
Staff Correspondent

Junior Chip Legerton de-
feated Stuart Dorsett in Tues-
day’s elections by a vote of 554
to 266 to become the new SGA
President.

Legerton’s Vice-President is
Sophomore Chip Hurley, who
ran unopposed for the position.

Former President David
Waddill said he was pleased
with the way the elections went.
‘‘The candidates held a very
nice, dignified campaign and
spoke well for themselves and
for the school,” he said. He
confirmed that there had been
no irregularities in Tuesday’s

_ elections, emphasizing that the

elections were under the Honor
Code.

Last year, students disco-
vered a discrepancy of 234 votes
between the number of ballots
cast and the number of students
registered as having voted.
Waddill said the discrepancy
had been a result of students’
failing to cross out their names,

but it had no significant effect
on the final results.

Legerton said he was ‘‘opti-
mistic about the things we can
accomplish.’’ He feels the SGA
has done a good job this past
year and plans to continue their
projects next year.

However, he would like to
create ‘‘a merger between the
two interpretations [of the
SGA]: the project-oriented,
which was emphasized last
year, and the student-concerns
part.”

Legerton said the SGA
should deal with present stu-
dent concerns and issues. He
cited the use of the Dining
Commons, the Patterson Court
two-tiered proposal, student in-
put on faculty evaluation, and

admissions as important issues. -

He cautioned, however, against
the SGA’s becoming what he
called ‘‘a complaint bureau.’” it
should be a channel for express-
ing opinions and working with
the administration.

The new President also

stressed that ‘‘the SGA can
only be as a dynamic as the
students who participate in it.

To increase student partici-
pation in the SGA and to better
inform students of the SGA’s
activities, he plans to further
publicize the SGA’s activities
through a weekly column in the
Davidsonian written by differ-
ent senators on their activities,
and through visits by senators
to the eating houses to ex-
change information and views
with students.

Legerton also said that he
would like to increase the
SGA’s presently somewhat lim-
ited influence in college affairs.

Newly-elected Vice President
Chip Hurley was ‘‘really ex-
cited” about his position and
said it was ‘“‘a very rewarding
job, though it is a hidden one
with no glory attached to it.”

Legerton is a pre-medicine
major from Charleston, South
Carolina, and Hurley is a politi-
cal science major from Blue-
field, West Virginia.

Off-campus housing will lose 48 spaces

By AGNES STEVENS
Staff Correspondent
There will be more on-campus and less
off-campus housing available to students next

year.

The two new dormitories, Mary Irwin Belk and
Peter Knox Halls, will house 108 students. (see

. story page 2)

Perimeter housing for students will be reduced
from 120 to 88 spaces, according to Housing
Director Bill Bolding. The extra space will go to
professors and their families to ease the faculty

housing shortage.

The student housing lottery will be Monday,
April 13 through Wednesday, April 15.

The increase in on-campus housing may
prevent some sophomores from. moving off
campus. College policy allows students to move

off campus only if all available campus housing is The rooms in the new dorms will feature ‘these
modular wooden lofts.

filled.
(See page 11)

Profs take initiative in improving language instruction

By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor Emeritus

Davidson students will not be pushed into world
citizenship as quickly as they may have expected.

Just four months ago the college’s foreign language
program seemed to be headed for a change.

The Educational Policy Committee had proposed
increasing the language requirement from three to four
terms, and President Samuel Spencer had spoken at
Fall Convocation of the need to find ‘‘new ways of
enabling students to learn languages better than in
the past.’’

.It mow appears there will be no major changes
initiated by the college in the near future.

The faculty rejected the fourth term idea in
February, and President Reagan’s proposed budget
cuts have jeopardized the possibility of finding federal
funds to. support ambitious new programs.

If any change does occur, it will be piece-meal,
initiated by the language departments themselves. A
number of professors seem willing to take this
initiative. Some advocate a mandatory fourth term;
others affirm the necessity of study abroad. They all
remain dissatisfied with the college’s present efforts in
language instruction.

“I think Davidson is trying to do too much for the
time it allots for language acquisition,’’ French
Professor Alan Singerman said.

“This year we have established a strong, demanding

- intermediate French program. But ten weeks at the

‘20’ level is simply too short,”’ he said.

- “In my opinion there should be two ten-week terms
of intermediate language study on the present ‘20’
level. This would mean a fourth course, but it would not
mean more advanced work. The extra term would
permit us to reinforce the intermediate work we've

Singerman felt that attempts to strengthen language
proficiency. within the context of a three term
requirement would be impossible.

“In spite of an unusually high average potential here,
we can’t expect students to be supermen. What we
have here is a very strong ten-week program. It would
be in the interests of Davidson students to have
another course, especially for those studying abroad.”

Singerman advocated the implementation of the
Dartmouth method, which reinforces daily classroom

instruction with language laboratory work and inten-
sive oral sessions. This year, for the first time, the
French department is using the Dartmouth plan in a
modified form. The Dartmouth method normally
consists of five hours of lab work, five hours of oral drill
and five hours of classroom work for a total of fifteen
hours per week. This compares with a total of
approximately seven hours per week required of
Davidson French students.

Spanish Professor Lois Kemp agreed that there is a
need for a fourth term.

“While I think we're doing. a good job in Spanish
right now, the work load is very, demanding. I think we
could be more successful if we could expand by an extra
course to allow us to even things out.

“Students can anly absorb so much so fast,”’ she
added.

German Professor Hansford Epes questioned whe-
ther another course would improve language profi-
ciency enough to warrant its implementation.

“I don’t see the support among faculty and students
for curricular change that we had in the late '60’s when
the Blue Sky Curriculum was introduced,’’ Epes said.
“While we may not be producing people that are fully

(See page 11)
