College in America
From England and Cyprus, Pakistan and Grenada,
international students are adjusting to Davidson.

Davidson has several international students who
chose to attend college in America, but how in the
world did they ever hear of Davidson College? Ant
Goode, Melis Nicolaides, Shirin Hanafi, Soon K.
Lim, and Jeff Herrin are foreign students who found
_ Davidson from their homes across the seas. Each of
them has a different story to tell.

These students are able to see qualities in the
“American way” that most of us aren’t aware of be-
cause we are so much a part of it. They are both favor-
ably and unfavorably impressed with Americans.

Ant Goode

Ant Goode came to Davidson as-a Rusk Scholar
for the spring term last year. Although she has a med-
ical training spot awaiting her at Bristol University in
England, she decided to return to Davidson this fall
for a “year to make me more humanitarian, more
aware of what goes on.” Ant travelled across Ameri-
ca this summer and “toured around” in Alaska for ten
weeks, having her “best time in America so far,” she
said.

Ant sees America as different from England “in
its size and sense of history. There’s the. attitude of
new — the new life is better than the old.” What she

doesn’t like about this “throw out the old” idea is that.

it keeps Americans from having roots..She sees “su-
perficiality in fast foods, credit cards...” Ant likes
“Americans” optimism, their freedom to-be them-
selves. They show what they really are more than Eu-
ropeans do, with fewer inhibitions.” She finds it
“very liberating to be what I am.”

- Melis Nicolaides
Junior Melis Nicolaides, a Cypriot, heard about
Davidson from his high school guidance counselor at
Athens College in Greece. He served’a mandatory 26

months in the Cypriot army after graduating from

Athens college, a time he calls “very tough; another
kind of life,” before he entered Davidson in 1979. °

Melis transferred to the American University in
Beirut for second semester last year, he said, but
“when I got there the war had started, so I was read-
mitted here...I’m really glad I came back because
right now I’ve got more. friends here than I’ve got at
home.” — .

Melis’s first contact with America was as a fresh-
man here: “When I came here for the first time, I was
impressed with the friendliness.” He says that being
an international student is different from being an ex-
change student: “My freshman year, I was the only

‘foreign student. They [exchange students] don’t real-

ly get credit, don’t care about grades. We {interna-
tional students] care because we have to compete di-
rectly.” One re

Melis likes it here: “Davidson’ sa unique place.
I’m happy here.” He wants to go to medical school in
the United States but adds “Home’s home. I don’t
know when, but I’ll go home.”

Shirin Hanafi ,
Shirin Hanafi is a freshman from Karachi, Pakis-
tan. She caught wind of Davidson through her older
sister, who came here in 1978 on a Rotary Club ex-
change program. “I heard about it first-hand from

r

\

her,” Shirin said. “It was fascinating to me. I don’t

think I could have handled a big school. It just
seemed so right to come here.”

Shiri didn’t find what she expected when she ar-
rived in America: “It’s so much like home — conser-
vative. They [Pakistanis and Americans] think alike
about certain issues.” She said that Pakistanis have
the wrong impression of America: “They typify
America as something so completely different than
what it really is.” The American magazines, books,
and television programs in Pakistan portray Amer-
icans as “...loose in manner and speech. They show
loose girls and swearing ... I was warned so many
times not to go out late at night....I think all over the
world Americans .are thought of as easy with their
money.” She adds “but it’s not that way at-all...I feel
safer here than I do at home.”

If she goes on to graduate school, Shirin will stay
in America, but plans to return eventually to Pakis-
tan. Although she likes it here so far, she says “I don’t
think I could survive in America all alone.”

* (

. . Soon Lim
A sophomore from Malaysia, Soon K. Lim heard

‘ of Davidson through the Malaysian American Com-

mission on Educational Exchange (MACEE). He
calls himself “an Americanized Malaysian Chinese
Communist Internationalist.”

Although he began to study English when he was
about four years old, he said he “definitely had a
problem with classes and speaking at first” when he
arrived at Davidson.

Soon calls Malaysia “a neutral independent mul-
ti-racial country,” adding that “‘it’s too small not to be
neutral.” He refers to China as “our motherland. We
can go back there anytime we want to since 1970:” In
China it’s very hard to attend a university, but Soon

. - Said that “most American colleges are not recognized
in Malaysia. ” .

“Soon thinks the people here are “very friendly;

nice. They have a carefree sense of humor, so much

better than the Malaysian.”

America translates “beautiful country” in Chi-
nese, and although Soon misses his family, he plans
to live here. “When I came here as a freshman, I was
thinking of living in this country. ” He thinks he may
work for the government.

By Mary Shaffer. ‘85

' LEFT: Shirin Hanafi,

Melis Nicolaides, and Soon Lim:

