2—The Davidsonian—February 13, 1981

News at a Glance

WDAV has « new director, John Clark, who will begin work
March 2.

Clark succeeds Ed McIntyre, who resigned his position with
the College radio station January 31.

Clark, 34, is a native North Carolinian who has “broad
experience” in the communications field, according to Com-
munications Director John Slater. Clark has just spent a year as
Promotion and Development Director at KPBS in San Diego.
Before that he was affiliated with WUNC and WCHL in Chapel
Hill, WBLA in Elizabethtown, and WKIX in Raleigh.

He has also worked with Friends of University Network
Television (FOUNT), a non-profit organization in Chapel Hill.

Other College hiring processes are still under way.

There is ‘‘nothing to report’”’ on the search for a new Vice
President for Development, according to President Samuel
Spencer. Former Vice President for Development Duane
Dittman resigned last Spring.

Dean of Students Will Terry said he is now reviewing resumes
of applicants for the position of Minister to Students. Rush
Otey, former Minister to Students, resigned last summer.

Terry said there will be a minister by the beginning of the next
academic year.

Global problems—population growth,, resource depletion,

| and environmental degradation—may be addressed to a greater

extent in the College’s curriculum in the future.

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) recently named a
seven man task force to consider curricular changes which would
foster investigation of these problems.

- The EPC’s decision was in response to a call issued by the
North Carolina Academy of Sciences to its member institutions,
of which Davidson is one. The Academy emphasized the need for
interdisciplinary approaches in teaching about the three
problem areas.

’ Biology Professor Cynthia Grant will be chairman of the task
force. She said the task force’s work may result in the addition
of “‘a new course or two” to the curriculum. The task force will
meet for the first time next week.

Other task force members are Chemistry Professor Ralph
Gable, Biology Professors David Grant and William Lammers,
Physics Professor Robert Manning, Economics Professor Clark
Ross, and French Professor Hallam Walker.

Davidson Town Board members W.I. Ward and Randall
Kincaid presented a history of Davidson’s controversy with the
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Utilities Department (C-MUD) over the
use of the new MacDowell Creek waste treatment plant at a
public forum held Tuesday. —

The towns of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville have

_| found several rate and cost proposals offered by G-MUD

unacceptable.

With renewed interest shown.by the Charlotte City Council
and City: Manager, the county and towns now have a ‘‘decided
possibility of exploring a new proposal,” according to Mayor
Nancy MacCormac. She added that she hopes the town will be
able to: work. out. ‘some kind of separate sewer district or
separaté cost center” with reasonable ‘rates and control.

MacCormac said that. although the situation’s specific impact
on the College is tncertain, the College, as well as town
busine ana citiangne “alt ae a decided interest i in reasonable
r rates. oe! >

members. We - apologize to Seniors Cynthia Barron,. Susan
Beesley, Julia Eichelberger, Aurie Hall, Trisha Haynes, Aine
| Stanback, and Nancy Wright, who wrote the letter. Only Hall

to be associated with NOW in any way:

| Last on a letiee segarding Charles * Douglas’ article on ERA.
- | was erroneously attributed to Davidson NOW Chapter

and Stanback.are NOW members, and the letter was not meant

“ Bo PO ae Ba ne *. “
oy, ca ite a ee
VERSE ALIS we Te Pi 7
Dap kN es DSS foie; .

re ee:

OBER

Maria Lee, 1 |

l128 Ss Main st ra

“892-7521

Vandals damage prints in Union

By JEFF HOLLAND

Staff Writer

Several isolated incidents of
vandalism have occurred in the
College Union building over the
past few months.

Union Program Director Ly-
man Collins attributes most of
the incidents to drunk and
irresponsible students.

According to Collins, a print
that was hanging near the 900
Room was crumpled up and
thrown in a corner a week’ ago
last Monday. In addition, there
have been cases of broken
vents, stolen signs, and mirrors
torn off walls.

There has been only one case
of actual theft, Collins said. A
print hanging in the big screen
room was apparently taken in

broad daylight. The thief may _

have dropped it out a window.

With the exception of the
stolen print, Collins said most
of the incidents were the work of
drunken students wandering
around the 900 Room. There
have been two occassions when
drunken students have come
downstairs from the 900 Room
and harassed the desk at-
tendant.

“We are asking the coopera-
tion of students both in report-
ing the incidents and encourag-
ing their friends not to act
irresponsibly ,”’ Collins said.

The Union is also closing the
bar in the 900 Room at 12:30
a.m. in order to help the Union
attendants clear out the room
earlier according to Collins.

Vandal bent this picture in the
Conversation Pit.
(David McCurry)

10976,

Camp Sea Gull |
e 0 Camp Seafarer

Summer job openings for camp counselors at Camp Sea
Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls). Serving as camp
counselor is a challenging and rewarding opportunity to
work with young people, ages 7-16. Sea Gull and
Seafarer are health and character development camps
W located on the coast of North Carolina and feature
sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual
camping activities including a wide variety of major
sports. Qualifications include a genuine interest in young
people, ability to instruct in one phase of the camps’
programs, and excellent references. For further informa-
tion and application, please write a brief resume’ of
training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don
Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box -
Raleigh,

North Carolina,

27605.

‘ -

outlook on life.

CALL:

Cpt. Touchet ROTC Dept. ext. 170°

If you're starting to look at life after
college, try our “basic” outlook. Apply
for the special Two-Year Army. ROTC
Program during your sophomore
year. Attend a six-week Basic Camp
| this summer and earn-$500. It's
tough. But the people whocan ~
manage it are the people we’ want to
serve as officers in the active Army
or Reserves. Do well at Basic and
you can qualify for the Army ROTC
Advanced Program in the fall.. You'll
earn $100 a month for 20 months
your last two years in college. “And
the opportunity for a two-year full
.tuition scholarship. You'll also receive
the extra credentials that will — °
. distinguish you in whatever career
you may: choose. Try our basic”

