8—The Davidsonian—May 8,1981

Nick’s Flicks

Fine Films ends its season next Tuesday with an excellent but
sadly neglected British film from the 60’s. Joseph Losey’s The
Servant, besides featuring an early screenplay by Harold Pinter,
stars Dirk Bogarde as a gentleman’s gentleman whose
relationship with his aristocratic employer very quickly
subverts the accepted forms of the British class structure.
Replete with social and political implications, Pinter'’s film
documents the disintegration of feuc and aristocra-

tic personality with a non-
chalance which very easily be-

Nick comes terrifying. The etiolated
‘ nobleman is played by James
Graham Fox (brother of Edward) who

uses a wealth of upper-class
mannerisms to convey his in-
s creasingly fragile grasp on con-
trol of his life. That this is founded upon hypocrisy and exploita-
tion is never in doubt, but whatever pity may be felt for him by
the_end cannot: be simply ascribed to his being a ‘‘weak
personality.” In fact, beneath Bogarde’s subversive urbanity
lies a desire for exploitative dominance at least as vicious as that
of the aristocrat whom he seeks to replace. At this level the
psychological implications of the film tend to outweigh the
political and it is certainly insufficient to regard it all as just
another tract upon the evils of capitalism. The sheer force of the
personalities ultimately becomes more important and when
Bogarde is joined by Sarah Miles playing his nymphomaniac
and possibly incestuous sister the whole film moves into another
arena. The final degradation of the helpless nobleman is
performed with quite callous coolness in a series of frighteningly
powerful scenes. This disintegration is made all the. more
disturbing when it is remembered that several years later James
Fox’s acting career was ended by a combination of mental illness
and alcohol abuse. This film should not be missed.

schedule this week with the excellent All That Jazz in Love on
Friday, which evidently needs little recommendation. Neither
does Saturday’s feature, The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes,

ought to be full to bursting at 11 pm.

the Visulite, where Francois Truffaut’s latest, The Last Metro,
is showing until May 14th. And a rather baffling feature it is,

too. Truffaut has already made one film (La Nuit Americaine,
1972), which celebrated the illusory powers of the cinema, and

this film, which deals with the theatre, has been hailed as doing
for the Thespian medium what the former did for the celluloid.
Arguably, this misses the point: in spite of the largely irrelevant
title, the film centers on a Parisian theatre during the
Occupation. Gerard Depardieu (who seems to have it in his
contract that he appear in every major French film these days)
stars as a leading actor whose extra-theatrical activities include
the Resistance, his specialty exploding record-players.
Catherine Deneuve is the theater manageress, combining a life
treading the boards with the clandestine presence of her Jewish
husband in the cellar below. Everybody in this situation has
something or someone to hide, and the only remotely
straitforward character is the devious Daxiat, a viciously
anti-semitic theatre critic dedicated to rooting out Hebraic and
effeminate influences from the Paris stage. In this situation, one
would have expected some major tension and personal conflict
to emerge, but the whole action ambles along in a pleasant
fashion where even Truffaut's famed charming wit seems
muted. At first viewing, at least, the film lacks the cohesion of
La Nuit Americaine, where the shared obsession with cinema
gives some intensity to the characters. Here, none of the
personalities seems to be able to get worked up about anything
in particular, even betrayal to the Nazis. The sole exception is
the scene in which Depardieu takes Daxiat to task for his
unfavorable reviews, thus precipitating a crisis in the plot which
is immediately dropped by the director in favor of a final five
minutes too bizarre for words. Whether in all this Truffaut
intends to make a point about the deception of the theater, the
actors, their characters, indeed his own cinematic deceptions as
a film-director, is open to question. Perhaps, it all breaks down
because of the different natures of the illusions practiced upon
their audiences by cinema and theater respectively, Either way,
one is left with a vague feeling of unease at the unsatisfactory
way in which The Last Metro proceeds.

you will read in the Davidsonian. As the sun sets sail from the
harbor and the ship sinks slowly in the west, ‘‘Nick’s Flicks” is,
mercifully, going to that great Screening Room in the sky.
Riding off into the sunset as the titles roll, what else can the
_ SPprentice cinephile say? Here's looking at you, kids.

Similarly, Pop Films draw towards a conclus‘on with their -

said to be one of the worst films ever made. Love Auditorium.

’ Those of you favoring entertainment in Charlotte should try

And that, I'm afraid, is the last installment of this column

King George Motel _
After school special |

Low graduation rates for Davidson students

| North Myrtle Beach, SC

Lo. Call: (803 1249-2721 |

More Campus Forum

Old South yea

To the Editor:

What element makes Old
South weekend different from
other party weekends? It is a
celebration of the Southern life-
style in the pre-Civil War

period, highlighted by a cos- |

tume ball where some partici-
pants wear Confederate uni-

forms.

This celebration has been
attacked in a ‘‘Statement of

Protest’”’ written by the Black

Student Coalition. The attack
was founded on the idea that
the Old South was a ‘‘demoral-
ized’’ and “‘insulting’’ society.

The writers of this statement
were incorrect and totally un-

_ founded in these accusations. It

showed a great lack of insight
on their part to unjustly attack
an institution that they do not
understand.

The Old South was a society
that embodied the ideals of
chivalry and honor. It was
almost completely destroyed
because it stood up for what it
believed was right.

The only sin that can be held,
universally, against the Old
South is a deadly sin: Pride.
The Confederate uniform is a
symbol of this pride. It stands a
a reminder that a people would
risk their way of life for what

they believe is right. The South

in the Civil War did not
unitedly fight for slavery. They
fought against the denial of
their states’ rights.

This group of people fought
for four long years against a
force greatly superior to their
own in both manpower and
technological support. They
were starved, disease-ridden
and oppressed. They fought on
out of sheer force of will. They
suffered the almost complete
annihiation of the male popu-
lation, the destruction of any
society left and the humiliation
and degregation that occurred
at the hands of immoral quasi-
buffoons. The carpetbaggers
got away with thievery, murder
and the like with the support or
at least without thé interven-
tion of the law and occupational
forces.

The celebration of Old South

is a reminder of the glorious.

society this country was able to
produce. The Old South is, to
some, and should be to all, a
reference point: a point to
compare to valor, courage, pa-
triotism, chivalry, fortitude,
strength, luxury, ingenuity and
religious morality fo. all time.
The ‘Old South displays all the
things that we hold to American

. in one. cohesive unit.
mi, Leif Johnston |

Old South yea
To the Editor:
' Fhe issue of Old South is

obviously avery emotional one.
It. is emotional for Blacks

because it reminds us of the

oppression and heartlessness to
which our people were subjected
and it is emotional for KA’s

because it is a fraternity tradi-

- tion. Although on an emotional

level I not only understand, but
also strongly feel the pain that
could come from an Old South
celebration, when I consider the
Black Student Coalition’s pro-
test against Davidson KA’s and
the issue, I stand with the
fraternity for several reasons.
First, the BSC members admit:
that KA members are not racist
and that the celebration harbors
no malicious intent. They. ar-

gue, however, that Old South |

is inherently ‘‘offensive te: ALL
Blacks.’’ It seems illogical to
me to completely divorce the
intent of an action from the
action itself. wee

Second, Davidson KA’s rea-
lize that Southern culture. did
include practices and warped
values that were clearly wrong.
We also believe, however, that
ideals like chivalry, courage,
and respect for women are
worth remembering and cele-
brating. As a Black, it is all too
evident to me that these ideals
as they existed in the South
were only applied to white
society by white society. What
that says to me is that good
ideals misused. It does not in
my mind decrease the value.of
the ideals themselves. When
Davidson KA’s celebrate Old
South, we celebrate those i-

deals, not as they were prac- -

ticed then, but as we feel they
should have been.

had some of the same feelings
about KA’s and Old South as
those held by the BSC. Onée I
got to know the guys at the
house I realized, howéver, that
to look at the fraternity without
seeing the individuals and their

-intentions was to share in the

close-mindedness for which I
had always criticized white
racists. When I received an
encourgement from KA last
spring, I tried to look at. it
objectively. I thought about
‘Old South,” and'I realized
that Davidson KA’s were in-

deed able to separate the good

from the bad in that period in
history. Last weekend I cele-
brated Old South with a clear
conscience. oO

I feel very strongly that the
BSC protest was a positive one.
It made us as a campus think
about an important issue—
something which I’m afraid we
rarely do. The KA’s became
more sensitive to feelings of
campus Blacks. I hope the
members of the BSC will also
become sensitive to the fraterni-
ty traditions. Granted, not all
KA chapters celebrate Old
South with honorable inten-
tions. Davidson KA’s, however,
have made significant strides.
Although I do not favor a-
bandoning the fraternity tradi-
tion, KA’s should continue to
make every effort to:be

sensitive to the campus as a

whole. _-

Last week I refused. to com-

ment on the protest before I saw
Old South. I felt. very ‘much
torn in the middle. Now, there
is no doubt in my mind that
Old South at Davidion is a
celebration not of white supre-

macy, but of ideals which I hope .

we all value and attempt to

practice. I expect communica-
tion between the BSC and KA
will continue in an atmosphere
of open willingness to com-
promise and an effort to under-
stand each other’s actions and
intentions.

Old South is the type of:
thing that can easily be abused
or misunderstood. I hope in the
future we can work together on
becoming more sensitive to each
other and to the campus as a
whole.

Sherman Allen ’83

——— Member of KA and BSC_

Old South nay

Dear KA members:

America should not have
anything that may evoke rac-
ism. KA Old South may be a
celebration which means a lot to
you but since the blacks see it
as evoking feelings of anger and
anguish, it’s better for KA to
quit. Instead of celebrating the
traditional KA Old South, why
don’t you guys change it in such
a way that it can promote
understanding and foster the
relationship between KA and
BSC members?

Peace and Love.

Keng Soon Lim
Malaysian International

Student
Lip service
To The Editor:

Last week Edith Parker
wrote an excellent article dis-
cussing the problems faced by
women athletes at Davidson
College. Elizabeth Kiss ex-
pressed the same concerns in
her editorial ‘‘A Discriminating
College.”

Why then with all the em-
phasis on equality do we need a
microscope to find an article on
women’s tennis? They have one
of the best records of any sport
here. me

If you will look on page 6 of
last week’s issue you will find
the title ‘‘Lady Cats Squeek
By...’’ We find this an in-
appopriate title for an article
covering a team that won the
NCAIAW State Tournament
with 3 singles players and one
doubles team finishing first in
their flight. Not to forget the
Emmy Knobloch captured the
#1 state singles title for the
third straight year.

The lay-out and coverage in
general leaves a lot to be desi-
red. (This is not to fault writer
Katie Dagenhart as much as it
is a staff that permitted what
we hope was an oversight.)

The lack of quotes, pictures
and in-depth coverage seems a
gross contradiction in light of
the overall tone of last weeks
issue. Is the process of report-
ing the end of the concern?

The complaint may seem

picky to many and irrelevant to

the staff but the issue is much

‘broader. We hope the com-

munity plans to give more than
simply lip-service to the non-
discriminatory ideals expressed
Anne Hockett ‘83

Denise Ferguson ’83
