page

DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson soccer team
takes three in a TOW

by Mark Elmore ’82

First of all, T would like everyone to know that I ,

stand corrected, The last soccer article ended with my
betting the team that they were not the best soccer team

that Davidson has fielded, and if they were, they hadto |
prove it. Well, they won all three games this week and ..
if it, was not for themselves and the. school, it was to ..

make me look stupid. Thanks, pals!
The week: opened. with a Southern. Conference

match at East Tennessee State Univeristy on Friday...”

Arriving. only fifteen minutes before gametime, the

Cats were sluggish and allowed East Tennessee the .
first goal. By halftime the score was tied at three goals .
apiece and Davidson adjourned to collect thoughts and .. ,
adjust. Apparently a little settling down was all they .
needed, for Davidson rammed: in four goals to East

Tennessee’s none in the second half. With: the final

scoré seven. to'three and Chris Roberts: scoring ayhat
trick and two assists, the Cats happily departed for Sa~

turday’s match at Tusculum..
Nota great, Tusculum compensated for its lack of

finesse. with bullishness as evidenced by the eight yel-

low-cards (2. cards for 1 player means expulsion) and

the eventual ejection of their goalkeeper. Despite this -

abberation in the game’s play, Davidson dominated
and lead 1 to O.athalftime, Then, like the previous day,
they: destroyed their opponents in the second half by
scoring four more goals. and allowing none. Goalie
Mike “the Chicken” Iordanou summed up the game by
saying ““Tusculum wasn’t really good. but they were
rough. Because. we started slow and then scored four in
the’second half shows we can hold our own in pressure
situations.”
Wednesday: was a glorious diy for the soccer
team. In the Southern Conference match against West-
ern Carolina, the Cats showed. the home crowd their
savvy. as they came from behind and scored to tie the
game at 2 — 2 in the final minutes.

“The. entire..second-half was completely con-

‘trolled by us” quippped j junior | Hall Barnett, “and scor- -

ing was just a matter of time.” Junior Brian Hamilton
finally. found the net as he took the ball from the wing
and eased the ball into the corner to bring: the crowd to
its feet.

The ensuing two ten minute periods of overtime
found both teams playing at a torrid pace but Davidson
still in full control—Western Carolina’s boom-ball
style of play was floored by the short, accurate passing

Cc K. Nichols Blocks a headball with his 1 nose, but he ‘beter faced
the WCU goalie as he scored the winning goal in overtime, -

of the Cats. And in a display similar to the games with

East Tennessee.and Tusculum, Davidson scored in the

very last minutes. This time C. K. Nichols trapped a
pass about ten yards from the goal, turned and fired by
a frustrated Western Carolina goal keeper to win the
game 3-2.

Tordanou ccenipented on the game stating that
“We're mentally stronger than ever because we can
keep plugging when we’re behind. Most teams quit
playing as hard after being behind for so long.”

Co-Captain Todd. Lambert admitted that, “endu-
rance-wise, we’re at.our peak; we’ve been in better

shape: than every team we’ve played so far and that’s

why we’re winning.”
Overall, the Davidson soccer team is 5—3 Pa 2

1 in the Southern Conference. With their ability to. «
. come from behind and score in the second half, they. -

should continue their charge against Belmont Abbey at
home on Monday, September 28.

Player of the Week
CHRIS ROBERTS, forward

Roberts, a sophomore soccer play-
er from Schenectady, New. York, had
four goals. and two assists in weeke _
action over East Tennessee and Tuscv -

lum, and> played .a..major role in

Wednesday’s come-from-behind win
over Western Carolina. Roberts, a
freshman phenom last year, is having no
problem so far beating the sophomore
jinx, with seven goals and two assists on
the season.

Delivery service. a:

y Special: 6-packs of -
2 Old Milwaukee
e reg. and light $1.99

Gays/week

Workshop -

_ Christina Williams |

892. 5709

Call for registration & further pinion :

‘Lake Norman Village Shopping Ctr.
right down from Hardee's

Photo by Eric Lang ©
