Lehigh’s pon-attho ars!

team gives Davidsonva Dickens of a time

owas ihe bs of ies it was the worst of times

ar Lehigh cased he Cats 68

worst of times

Although Ellen Field and many othortiare nakttig:

the question, : “Why do we play Lehigh?,” there is
perhaps a more relevant. question: ‘Why ‘is Lehigh so
good? The: obvious answer is, “Because they: give
scholarships.” ‘Wrong. ‘Lehigh does not give scholar-.
ships i inany Sport. SO why i is Lehigh so good? ~-

Coach Ed Farrell says. Tradition; however, does.not
build a football program. The University also offers
ten to twelve senatorial scholarships a year to incom-
ing freshmen: and these “very often go to athletes.” wat

Still, tradition. and $20,000 in ‘scholarships

doesn’t create a tear that can Outscore Davidson
(which offers $80,000 in. Wildcat Club. “prants”)
155-42 across four Octobers. Aside from their beat-
ing Ivy League Penin 58-0 and perennial 1-AA power-.

house ‘Delaware 4-21 at Delaware, inet only’ two-

votball team, : Two Saturdays ago it ;
Hampden Sydey one Last Saturday it was the

ef nga aon There’s a
nissions,” “Wildcat ;

ashes have come at the hands of Division I Colgate
(27-14). and ‘New: Hamipshire (13-12), hom on. the
 road.sHow do they do-it?

- school fdotball. Those g s who can’t go to Pitt
or Penn State go to Lehigh. Need scholarships are
better accepted up North‘as well. And Lehigh is three

times the size of Davideon and academically a notch

~ lower.

All ‘that was .the problem Saturday. Ravidetn oc
doesn’t have all that. It-Was'something of the reverse

of the Davidson-BU gate. “They jumped on us car:
‘ yy, and we got confused.¢)

back for good field position, and it wasn’t too much
later that wide receiver Dan Ryon stood in the end

~-gone with the ball: Worse yet, he reached ‘the end

zone with the ball twice more before the first qaies
was over.

Quite naturally, the Wildcat defense otarted ques- Pr
tioning the game plan, and for good reason. It wasn’t

_ working. It called for lots of blitzing, leaving easy-to-

‘beat one-on-one coverage in the secondary, and the

Hockey tops Wake; loses to High Point

Davidson's hockey team won | one game and lost
one game in the North Carolina AIAW meet last

Thursday and Friday. The Cats defeated Wake Forest

3-1, and fell to High Point, 1-3. |
Though Davidson dosainated for most of the

game, Wake Forest led at the half with one goal. “We. -

figured we could: beat: Wake,” explained freshman

Kara Gilmore, “so. when we realized at half-time that «°° Dé
we were behind, we réally got fired up.” Sophomore -
two goals in the second half of

Courtney Hall s

the game, and Hamilton added another. .

Davidson’s Amy Sweet ene) in in the fret |

Sy RS

20 minutes of the High Point game, but the Cats were

caught off-balance as High Point: countered with a
goal of their own just: moments later. Eight minutes
before the end of the half, High Point scored again.
“They. really pressured our defense in the first half,”
said coach Dee Mayes, “but ‘we were stronger in the

second half, We took numerous shots on their goal. 7
Déspitean’ aggressive offense, however, Davidson
failed to score in the second half. High Poincar

once'more, ten minutes before the end.of the game.’
ular season game’ against High Point. “The score

AN ee 5 Se. MOE:

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 6 November 1981

- missing keys, and that only. led to more
Pennsylvania: and New Jersey sii excellent high -

Friday’ s game ended 3-1, as did the Cat's last reg- -

Lehigh offense cranked it up. The defense stared

loosely covered. By halftime it was 49-0. Lehigi j 2
scored on every-single. possession: . fie

Lehigh had no qualms about running up the sdore,
either. They’ re looking for a bid to the I-AA touina-
ment, and since they’ ve lost twice; they’re headhunt-
ing. Up until the start of the first quarter, the. Engi-
neers scored on every possession:

But tomorrow. Furman comes to town, and it
would be a far, far better thing for the football team to
do if they would forget Lehigh and concentrate on the
Paladins. It has traditionally been a wide: open tival-

wasa © ry, with games of 77-14 (Davidion,.1969);.! L35
quantum leap: The Engineers ran the opening kickoff

(Davidson, 1973), and the NCAA record- breaking
63-55 (Furman, 1979). Last year, Furman ‘won
21-7. ,

_ The Paladins, : -who ‘are in the running siline
Southern Conference crown, feature a balanced,run-

ning attack with two'tailbacks named Stanford Jen-

nings and Brothel (Broth-el J Cole. With names like
that you know iy can run. !

By Steve Soud "84. | a

doesn’t show how much closer a game this watt * said
Mayes, “the team played super.”

In order to let the team rest up, Davidson detlined
to play in the Deep South Tournament last weekend.
They are going to Regionals, where their first game is
against (once again) High Point. They play at4:pm.

this afternoon at Hollins College. They're tested;

they’re playing well; and they have a good attitude or

as Kara put it, “As soon as. we get past High Point,
it: be sengoth s&iliag for the rest of Regionall;:

By Jim Northrup *82

17
