Friday 18 September 1981

DAVIDSONIAN

page 3

“ Earl Wooten ’84
Most students are welcoming
changes in housing and in the’ new ~
traffic pattern. around Patterson Court
this fall, but the changes in parking are
meeting with skepticism.

Outdoors the grounds department :

toiled during the summer to add new
brick walkways and make changes. in
parking and traffic patterns, while in-
side the housing department made sev-
. eral improvements.

' Approximately 50 parking spaces
were lost during the construction and re-
landscaping on the campus, but with
new parking spaces soon'to open there
will be “150 parking spaces more than
last year,” Grounds Supervisor Paul
Brawiey said.

-' Opposite Fannie and Mable house
is new student parking. A gravel lane
leads from the newly paved road. around
the court to a parking lot.

The lot is finished except for secur-
ity lighting. Duke Power is installing
those lights now and the new parking lot
should be open within a week.

Parking spaces are now in front of
the KA house. and behind Richardson

dorm where prevignety, there had been

none.
The parking ‘spaces belifrid Richard-
son are for faculty and staffonly. —

A new parking lot in the area be-
hind the post office near the new com-
puter center’ (formerly doctors’ office)
will accomodate 40 cars.

. A disconcerting note, however, is

“the location of the new parking spaces.

College Laundry Manager . Frances
Beaver is concerned that the laundry
staff might have to find parking spaces
far from the laundry building.

In the past, most of the laundry.
staff parked between the security de-
partment building and the laundry

building. Now. brick walkways replace

those: 15 to 20 parking spaces.
Physical Plant Director Grover
Meetze has designated certain parking

‘lots beside Belk for the laundry staff,

but they “will not take care of our
needs,” Mrs. Beaver said. Mrs. Beaver

suggésted that Mr. Meetze could re- ©

serve the eight spaces near the tennis
courts for the laundry staff. “It would
relieve our problem,” she said.

It is not likely that any new parking

‘spaces will be made available to stu-

dents, faculty, or staff near the focal
points of the college such as the dormi-
tories and classrooms. In fact, Mr.
Brawley intends to have as much park-
ing space as possible away from the

rimeter parking,” he said.

The housing department made
changes in some dormitory lounges to
provide a better atmosphere for stu-
dents. A lounge was created in Duke on
the first floor. Previously the dorm had
no lounge space or passageway between
the left and right sides of the dorm. The
new lobby in Duke provides both a
lounge area and accessible exits in case
of a fire.

The housing department decorated

‘the lobby of Richardson Dorm in quiet

earth tones provided by the new carpet
wallpaper and furniture.

According to Housing Director
Bill Bolding, revenue from the sale of
old lumber, books and “anything left in
storage from two years back,” brought
$250.00 which paid for the wallpaper-
ing in Richardson lounge. Mr. Bolding
also closed the Vincent Hause and some
of the furniture from it went into Ri-
chardson. Income from computer
games, such as Galaxians, also helped
purchase material for the renovation.
Mr. Bolding said the housing depart-
ment plans to redo and improve every
dorm. Next year Cannon will be redeco-
rated.

Mr. Brawley said the grounds
crew has laid over 100,000 bricks, but

ampus undergoes summer facelift; loses parking

much of the work is still incomplete.
New brick walkways criss-cross the
plaza area between Belk dorm and the
Commons. Mr. Brawley said his crew
planted grass in that area early to im-
prove the appearance of the campus by
the opening of school. Now they are
waiting for the soil to dry so they can
finish the brickwork and landscaping.

Mr. Brawley also plans extensive
landscaping around Patterson Court.
The parking spaces encircling the Court
are interrupted by islands, with grass
and young trees to be planted soon.

The grounds crew repaved and
widened, in many places, the road
which circles the campus. Rerouted
traffic follows around Patterson Court
behind the gymnasium, and behind Ri-
chardson Stadium.

Behind the football field the nar-
row one-way road is now dual-lane and
wider. According to Mr. Brawley, the
road is now 20 feet wide which is “as
wide or wider than most secondary
roads in North Carolina.”

“The only danger is the curve,” he
admitted. The curve is 22 feet wide but
hazardous because of poor visibility of
approaching traffic in either direction.
Mr. Brawley said “two cars can meet in
that corner, but not a car and a truck.”

buildings. “We are working toward pe-

‘Susan:

Freshman
orientation

‘Freshmen Susan Camp- &
‘bell (left), Judy Redd and 2
‘Meg Surratt (right) figure 3
out the clues at the peo- @
ple-hunt last week. Do §
freshmen still enjoy the {
orientation games? Says
“We had a lot of
fun. It was great.”

Knox and Irwin dorms open doors to 108 students

By Jeffrey Mann ‘84

Knox and Irwin dormitories opened 2 September
to returning upperclassmen. The new two-story dorms
each house 54 students in 27 double rooms.

Director of Housing Bill Bolding said the new
dorms will “pretty much take care of the housing short-
age for men, but we could still use a few more rooms
for women.” He does not:know of any plans to build
more dorms. Knox houses only men and Irwin is coed
with women on the second floor;

Student reaction to the new new dorms is general-
ly quite favorable. The main, complaints concern the
distance to the rest.of campus, the size of the rooms,
and the lack of sinks. “Everything’s nice, except the
sinks are down the hall,” said Sophomore Mark Good-
win, an Irwin resident. It’s nearly a,ten-minute walk to
Chambers, but most students seem to be adjusting.
“Even though we’re almost in the next county, it’s not
too bad,” said junior Knox resident Leif Johnston.
Several students said it is “almost like being off cam-

* Knox and Irwin are on Patterson Court opposite
the SAE and Phi Delt houses, respectively. They. are
two-story buildings with 1116 rooms built in a long

- hallway style similar to other dorms on campus.

Unlike all other Davidson. dorms, there are no
sinks in individual rooms. Rather, the bathroom/sink
facilities are each shared by twelve students. There is a
lounge on every floor, with the second floor lounges
designated for studying.

The new rooms. feature a modular furniture sys-
tem which allows many different room arrangements,
including several types of lofts. Students build lofts by
stacking their beds on any two of the other furniture
pieces: the closet, bureau-and-shelf, or desk-and-
shelf. The housing offiice chose this type of furniture
for its “durability and heavy strength,” according to
housing offiice secretary Gracia Slater. “We wanted to

provide more flexibility without ruining the walls with

students.nailing into them.” The furniture cost about
$1000 per student.

Comptroller Robert. Davidson said the total cost
for the buildings was ‘$1.2 million, or about $11,000
per bed. ‘UNC — Charlotte recently completed a hous-
ing project costing just over $9000 per bed according
to UNC - C Associate Director of Residential Life
Chuck Colby. This project consists of two bedroom

_ apartments with a living area and bathroom shared by

four students. Mr. Bolding pointed out that it is “very
hard to compare our dorms with apartments,” and that
private and state schools do their funding very differ-
ently. Mr. Bolding said that the Davidson dorms
should prove more durable. “They'll (UNC — C) have
to start replacing furniture almost immediately.”

The housing offiice plans several improvements.

. Ladders. should arrive soon for lofts and the Physical

Plant will build small lockers in the bathrooms for per-
sonal items.
