Guns or Butter? |

Guns or butter; should we spend
our money on our defense or’should
we invest in our economy? This has
been a persistent question throughout
our history. With the advent of the
Reagan Administration it resurfaces
with new vehemence in light of his
budget cutting and tough talk poli-
cies. .

Before we jump to supply

answers to this question we must _

probe deeper. What will spending on
military hardware do for our eco-
nomy? When the new. defense dollars
start chasing scarce resources needed
in the private sector what will be the
consequences? When defense _re-
search gets better funding and subse-
quently the best minds we can muster
what will happen to our technological
superiority that gives us a competitive
edge in the world market?
Furthermore, we must examine
the effectiveness of military power to-

Danny Armistead’®?

gola, Iran, and the Soviet difficulties ©

in Egypt (from which they were ex-
pelled) and in Afghanistan (where
they now fight a costly war with ill-
equiped rebels) might suggest thatthe
effectiveness of military power has
dwindled. First, we can no longer
draw up foreign policy for areas such

‘as Asia and Latin America as easily as

Europe once did in colonial timés
(The New Yorker, 27 April 1981, pp.
137 — 139). Now the less-developed

‘nations and even small dissident pol-

itical groups can draw international
attention with new significance. We

now must take into account age-old .

religious differences before supply-

ing arms to a nation in our bloc. In
‘some .cases we have found military

Paul Conrad

The Los Angeles Times
Los Angeles Times Syndicate

Nee Bons

to their lack of control over their peo-

ple, e.g. in Iran.

Secondly, military technology
has changed significantly. The cost of
production and training in the use of

_ hew weapons systems grows geomet-

rically. The cost of attracting and
training the volunteer army today

No longer can a nation comfortably
maintain a strong military and a
strong economy at the same.time.

Thus we must decide whether to
spend on gunis o: r butter. The articles
on this page should help us see the
complexity of the issue and hopefully
give us insight into the consequences
of our decision.

day. Our dificulties in Vietnam, An-

persuasion of leaders ineffective due.

costs many times what it did in 1945.

Less bang to the buck.

On the uncoupling of economic bower and military power

other industrial nation in the percentage of

its national product which is devoted to research
and development for the civilian economy. A conse-
quence of this neglect is the competitive edge now en-
joyed by West Germany, Japan, and other smaller na-
tions that can produce important classes of sophisticat-
ed. goods for export more cheaply and more efficiently
than the United States can.

The uncoupling of economic power and military
power is a phenomenon of the past fifteen years. It used
to be that the nations that could afford the largest ar-
mies and navies — Britain under Queen Victoria, Ger-
many under the Kaiser — were also the most dynamic
industrial countries; (Czarist Russia, with an enormous
military machine and a relatively primitive industrial
economy, was always an anomaly.) In fact a spectacu-
lar army and navy were intended to symbolize great

T: HE UNITED STATES ‘NOW: LAGS BEHIND EVERY

economic-power. Only the richest could afford them. .
But in our time a nation with amodest military force, at -
least compared with either superpower, and a nation -
with hardly any military force are ascendant economic
Japan are creating serious .-
economic problems for the United States by virtue of
‘their competition in the export war to which all the in-
. Exactly be-_

powers. West Germany and

dustrial nations of the West are c committec
to invest heavily in-their civilian production. The So-

viet Union, lila nicaininiiace camimaet "

Richard J. Barnet

‘from the New Yorker

~ military: power, but at an increasing economic sa-

crifice. As Myron Rush, a professor of government at
Cornell, has noted, the heavy military expenditures are
at the expense of future growth. Like the United States,
the Soviet Union has been shortchanging its civilian
production machine. For the United States, the conse-
quence has been a’ slow-growth economy. For a smaller
and weaker economy, the consequence is stagnation.

butter somehow misses the: point. The wish to
spend scarce resources on schools, health care,
the restoration of decayed cities, and clean air rather

T HE TRADITIONAL DEBATE OVER _GUNS ~ AND

than on bombs and tanks is understandable — Presi-

dent Eisenhower once said that to spend resources on
guns and warships when people were going hungry was
“theft” — but those. who advocate a shift of investment
from military : to spending for social services

have been silenced by the notion that protection from .

enslavement is the most important social service a go-
vesunest cas prone. Yet excessive military spending

s sopme of the same consequences as mil-
itary defeat; that is, it gives foreign governments more

ene cri~:

PRS TRO Veber ALAS

page 107. DAVIDSONIAN / Friday i) bea 1981

sis. The decision to invest a trillion and a half dollars in
the military rather than in a crash energy-development

program to reduce America’s dependence on foreign

oil is a prime example of the way the nation’s vulnera-
bility is increased by the act of piling up hardware. The
hardware cannot produce energy; it consumes energy.

Nor can it assure access to energy; there is no military
Strategy that can effectively assure the flow of oil

- through a system vulnerable to sabotage. Useless mil-

itary forces preémpt investment funds, public and pri-
vate, that could be used on developing alternative na-
tional-security strategies appropriate to the new cen-
tury that we are soon to enter.

_. . National security cannot be achieved. by a nation
unwilling to invest in its own future. By abandoning

' our sehools, our cities in the Northeast and the Middle

West, our small farmers, even our police and firemen,

-by failing to find an appropriate industrial base; and by

refusing to deal. adequately with overwhelming securi-
ty threats — inflation and resource management — we
are cutting deeply into the sources of national strength.
Increasingly, national power comes out of innovative
minds rather than out of the barrels of guns. The nation

best able to confront the unprecedented problems of ad-

vanced industrial civilization, torecognize the limits of

National power in an interdependent world, ‘and to
_ Create a legitimate social order within the confines of a

slow-growth economy is the one that is uely:.¢ to

--emerge-as:N®1.-
