| ‘spe i ie ones Thon

Students elected Emanon representative Barbara Kelley as the :

1981. Homecoming. Queen. 1980 Queen Lisa Harbottle crowned

Barbara and presented runners-up with roses.
‘The first runner-up was Sandy Fossett. -Tepresenting the KA’s.

Anne. Keith representing the SAE’s was second ‘funner-up, and.

sydney Foreman representing Pax was third eae Rusk’s
resentative Knox Douglass was s fourth runner-up. ©

en Avilite Pleoned

College Business Manager Bob Currie plans to conduct several _
random audits of fraternities, eating houses, and ‘other student.

otganizations each year, starting this year.
In the past,. ‘the college has conducted audits only upon an
organization’ s pees and at the organization’ s Sipeine:

Blood Drive
“The American Red Cross and Davidson ROTC will sponsor a

blood drive this Monday. Donors should come by the Union

bewteen 10:00 Am and 4:00 pa.
The theme for the drive is “Have you saved someone’s life
today?” The ROTC has set a 300 pint goal. ‘

_... The fraternity, eating house, or freshman hall with the largest
percentage of donors will receive a pizza and beer dinner. A random
drawing from iridépendent student donors will determine the winner
of lunch for two at La Toque Blanche (on Depot Street here in
Davidson). A random drawing from faculty donors will decide who
wins dinner for two at the Meeting Place, and a lucky staff donor
will win dinner for two at the Little Kitchen.

The Yearbooks are Here!

The 1981 edition of Quips and Cranks will be distributed from 2
to 5.PM today in the conversation pit of the College Union.
Senior Diane Odom, Quips and Cranks editor for 1981, said
that this will be the only time the'staff will distribute the yearbooks.
She will make arrangements later for students who cannot stop by.

Students must present their Davidson ID to pick up their copies.

They can also pick up friends’ copies with their friends’ IDs. Copies

| vane mailed to 1981 naan

will be a new procedure this, ‘winter’ for getting
ets to Flue basketball Age hana in the

_ North Carolina State from Wednesday 11 November tt
20 November and on Monday 30 November. until 3:00 PM.

presenting the ID card for each member of the group. Susie may

give their complimentary ticket$ to whomever they: please, but once |

a student’s ID has been used for a ticket pick-up, he cannot obtain
another complimentary ticket.

Students can pick up tickets to the 30: November game against

rou Friday |

BSC Fashion Show This Sunday
The Black Student Coalition (BSC) will hold an “Avitumn

. Glow” fashion show Sunday 1 ‘November in the 900 Room at 8:00

~ Twelve models will display sportswear, as well as casual and

eveningwear. Fashions will run from Brooks. Brothers to. . |

Gentleman’s Quarterly. Not all models are BSC members.
Desserts will be served.
Tickets. cost $1 and are avilable fiom BSC members, at the

Union Box Office, and at the door.

| PUG Organized

Seniors Jim Northrup and Robert Jenks are organizing the Prime
Users Group (PUG) with the help of Computer Center Director Bob
DeSieno. :

Robert said PUG will be “a liason group” between the Computer |

Center and the computer users.

_ PUG may eventually hold computer short-courses and
discussions. The Computer Center will hold an ‘editor and runoff’
workshop at 10:00 AM Monday, Wednesday, and Friday the week

‘of 23 November.

Interested students can join PUG by signing up on roster sheets
posted at various other campus locations. One organization and 14
students have already joined the group.

The. Computer Center is now open from 7:00 to 10:00 pm
Sunday evenings. The center has installed-new terminals in Dana
and Martin Science Buildings and inthe Psychology department.

. There were 1300 logins on the new system during 1 its first two weeks

in Opetaion

Postal Rates Rise déain :
! _ Starting Sunday it will cost 20¢ to mail a letter.
We talked to Davidson Postmaster John Fisher, who gave us the

new schedule for postage. There will be a two-cent increase on the
first ounce of first class mail. Third class bulk mail rates will

increase one-half cent for each piece of mail, and postcard postage

will become thirteen cents. The new rates will take effect at be 01

AM: Sunday morning.

Pres, Spencer goes to the Netherlands.

College President Samuel Spencer. left’ for Amsterdam .
Wednesday to. attend’ the Regional Conference. of Executive

; Directors of the Fulbright Commissions in Europe and Israel.

“Dt Spencer will moderate:a panel discussion on new triads i in

Highs education in Europe and the United States.

: — nore Ede °

“Jetteatoore Production Meciger
loridView Editor Lisa Buckley Head Compositor
erat Colondar itor Keo} hanreaeyh Compositor
ae ae _ Sohn Lusk Compositor
18 | Advertising Manager ts
onc nilgaah cased _ BuLAppeton Art Editor.

_JimRumley StaffArtist,
| PaulSehulz StaffAnist —
ea ———- Staff Artist

