‘by Brian Butler ‘84 |
HH. Little’s life is reminscent
|e of the old: Hollywood. mu
e sical in which the country
boy goes to town and makes good, then
sets up Mom and Dad for life. But this
story is no fairytale; it’s sculpted in flesh
and blood and years of work. Nor is the
story forgettable to us Davidson stu-
dents who cram for exams each term in
E. H. Little Library — the man’s grand-
est memorial edifice. Would you like to

hear the old rags to riches story, once’.
again? Well, it all started on a farm-near “gh

Long Creek... 89 7
M’ Little entered the world wear-

ing nothing, as we all do, on a farm,

about 15 miles south of Davidson when
Charlotte’s population was only 7000.
He was the fifth of twelve children, born
to George Washington and Ella Howie
Little. He said that when he was sixteen,
“Davidson’sthe place where I rode a
mule, taking my older brother Charles
to college. My mother wanted her oldest
to be a niinisie and he made it.” (For
years Rev! Charles. Little was pastor of
Charlotte’s. “ “Sharon. Presbyterian
Church.) 2,
M* Little never attended college
himself, but left home soon. after Cha-
rles did.to: work with J.S. Withers, a
Charlotte grocer and official cotton
weigher for Mecklenburg County, earn-
ing room, board, and $10 per month.
“When I came along, times were hard,
and I had neither the inclination nor the
tools to go to college. At sixteen, I left
that mule and went to town.”

“I was determined to make good,”
said M" Little of his early attitudes, “I
always believed in work and that you
could do whatever you were determined
to do. I liked to take on tough jo

In 1902; Clarence “Booster” Kues-

ter, head of the Chamber of Commerce,
recommended him. to the Colgate Com-

pany for a-sales position. M" Little be-

gan selling Octagon soap through the

Carolinas from the back of a buggy. By -
1906 his sales: record was so’ that - treatment.

- | mate, thinking he would return in a
_few months. There he learned that his

he was named district manager for Col-
gate in Memphis, Tennessee. -

Soon after M™ Little’s: move to
Memphis, the heavy orchestral swells

enter our musical, , as he began to-coax a

young aristocratic beauty named Su-

ing back to those cavaliers of Virginia.

Soon. the two were taking regular
buggy rides together and getting along

with towns named sitar ew ternily’ wi i

EH Little: the

E.H. Little (1881 - 1981)

rags-to-riches story

famously. According to eyewitness ac-
counts, young E.H. “cut a dashing fig-
ure” in those days and had a “personali-
ty that instantly attracted people, to
him.”

ne day in 1910, M" Little
went. to. see a‘ D", Mitchell
about a gloomy cough he had
developed. The doctor told him the

-cough was the result of an advanced

state of tuberculosis. He moved to a
center in Denver's dry cli-

stay would likely be for years.
-M! Little’s spirits, were crushed,

as lie told Miss Trezevant in his dreary
letters. In one letter he hinted that he

zanne:-into his. arms. -The a. ee Ing dimer gut er Tuy .

her" family’s

pontbobil sg 435 Piinaas et ate
noon,

For three years M' and M" Little
lived in the houses of private families

, and were

or in small apartments. Except for
mealtimes, they spent all their time
out on screened-in sleeping porches
both summer and winter. “At lunch
time we would eat with the family
again, and then go right back out to
the porch,” he said. “It didn’t make
any difference what the weather might
be. In the wintertime we dressed in
fur-lined sleeping slippers, warm
caps, and heavy wool shirts. At night,
we’d weigh ourselves down with
blankets. Sometimes it got as cold as
twenty-five degrees below zero, but
we became accustomed to it.”

Twice M' Little developed pneu-
monia, and once appendicitis, but
with M”™ Little’s constant support, he
made it through. “She left me only
twice for as long as a half an hour in
the entire three years. Once she went
to visit a friend. The other time, she
went to Boulder to take a ‘crocheting
lesson.”

M’ Little credited his wife with
his achievements. “I wish you would

_ say that without her I wouldn’t have

lived and wouldn’t have’ achieved

‘whatever success has come to me. She

page 15/DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

Le

"photo courtesy Communications Dept.

helped me. She was beautiful. She
didn’t know anything about business,
but she believed in it and believed in
me. She thought I could do anything.”

Finally, after nearly four years of
illness, M" Little became well and
vowed to live to be 100, because “it’s a
nice round figure.”

In 1919 he joined the B.J. Johnson
soap Company, then marketing Palmo-
live soap. In two years he brought the
territory west of Denver to the highest
per capita soap sales in the country. For
this achievement he was named assist-
ant sales manager and moved to New
York.

Mr’ Little’s next big opportunity
came in the late 1920’s when he was
asked to manage the company’s Euro-
pean operations from their beginnings.
M’ Little went to Europe on European
terms. He gave foreign executives top
positions. Instead of continuing the
widely accepted practice of translating
American advertisements into the na-
tive language, he-had marketing tailored
to local custom and idioms. By 1959,
European operations accounted for over
half of Colgate-Palmolive’s total sales.

In 1938, when Colgate and Palmo-
live merged, MT" Little was elected pres-
ident and chief executive officer of the
Company. At that time, worldwide
sales were $100 million and the profits
$782,000 per year. When M*° Little re-
tired in 1960, sales had risen to $600
million and profits to $25 million, and
his personal salary was among the high-
est in the world. “My work seems more
like a game to me than anything. I sup-
pose that’s why there has been so little
wear and tear on me personally. I like
selling and I like competition,” he said.

cept for the “setting up the kin-
folks” part. He gave Davidson
over $2. million through the years.
Countless millions went to other institu-
tions as well, but he gave more to Da-
vidson than to any place else. Why? D*
Chalmers Davidson remembers that M‘
Little always said “Davidson is my col-
lege.” M' Little explained “They needed
it. I had it, so I gave it to them. I’ve
taken care of my own pretty well.
There’s no use hanging on to it.”
When: MF Little gave $600,000 to
Queens College to help solve dormitory
security problems, the girls gave him a
lock, sek lial ‘On a plaque with an in-
scription that read “From the 700 girls at
Queens, whose doors are never locked
to E.H: Little.”
“Tt came too late in my life,” he re-
marked.

S o that’s the end of our tale. Ex-
