UPSET: Footballers trounce BU

by Scott Huie 85

‘Davidson football . was resurrected last
Saturday. Behind ‘the crisp passing. attack of
quarterback Brian Whitmire and a play called
“Sweep 8 Bootleg,” the Wildcats handily trounced
heavily favored Boston University 44-14;

The.offense totalled 380 yards with 287 coming
through the air, Starting for the first time since the
season opener, Whitmire completed 14 of 22 passes
and threw for three touchdowns.

The Terrier defensive strategy — to stop the
‘running of fullback Ray Sinclair (24 rushes for 80
yards and two touchdowns) — proved futile.as the
Wildcats went with an zrial attack which devastated
Boston’s vulnerable secondary. The sweep 8 bootleg
figured. prominently in each touchdown drive. After
faking to Sinclair up the middle, which invariably
drew. most of the defense onto him, Whitmire would
roll out and pass to a receiver crossing ‘over the
middle.

Head Coach Ed Farrell said, “Our offensive
philosophy never changes, We knew they woud key
on Sinclair, so we went with our passing attack.”

Tight end James Jones, who had been thrown to
sparingly in the first four games, caught seven passes
for 155 yards and one touchdown. “We worked that
play all week,” Jones said. “I just crossed over

between the secondary coverage and the linebackers. —

It worked well in practice, so it had to work in ‘the
same. We just jumped on them early and they

- couldn’t adjust.”

Unable to adjust to Davidson’s passing attack
and stop their scoring onslaught, the Terriers were
forced to. change their own offensive strategy.
Normally a run-oriented team, Boston started from
the shotgun, a new passing formation which
presented’ few troubles for the Wildcats.
Interestingly, BU led in first downs, 22 to 17, and
time of possession. The ferocious Wildcat defense
however, behind the outstanding performances of
nose guard Wendell Washington (two turnovers and a
safety), free safety Bill Price (13 tackles), and
linebacker James McLain‘(10 tackles), created many
opportunities for the offense.

“The offense came through,” said Coach
Farrell, “and simply had: better execution. We
committed no turnovers, which also was a key.” On

- BU’s first possession, a tipped pass fell into the hands

of Washington for an interception, and the offense
capitalized as it marched 37 yards for the score.

_ _. The nose guard’s heroics were not finished as he
toppled on the Boston quarterback for‘a safety late in
the first quarter, and later in the half recovered a
fumble to stall a Terrier drive.

In. the, second quarter. running back °

lickey
Dillon took a 20-yard pass completion

from

~ Whitmire and then scampered untouched 30 yards for

the score. The Cats finished their first half scoring
with a six play 61 yard drive which culminated in a
Sinclair rush up the middle for three yards and a TD.

A team finding itself

Do fans expect too. much from field hockey?

by Steve Soud ’84

The Davidson field hockey team is having an
identity crisis. If the identity crisis were internal, the
problem would be easily taken care of, but the
problem is external. You see, we, the fans, are the
ones having the hockey team’s identity-crisis.

All of us sitting on the hill above the field are

looking down and thinking we’re seeing last year’s

team, which took a trip to the national tournament.
But upon closer inspection, the studious observer will
notice something. Those eleven girls on the field are
not the same.ones.who were out there last year.

Two particular faces are obviously missing. One |

is Carol Heppner who’s been sidelined with strained
knee ligaments. You’ve seen her around campus —
she’s the blonde with a brace for’ a left leg. If you
haven’t seen her on the field, you're missing an
extraordinary hockey player. The other is Cathy
Inabnet.. Remember her? She was on the cover of the

Update, and not without reason: ‘She was last year’s -

leading scorer with 18 goals. You haven't seen her
around — she graduated. I gotta believe both are
‘ sorely missed.

Carol is -an_all- around athlete (she lettered

eleven times in high school and has six here), and an

all-around hockey player. She plays inner (analogous
to inside. in soccer) and does everything a good
forward should do. On defense her stick is there, and
on offense she makes the long, fast break pass, and no
one on the team is doing that consistently right now.
‘Then there’s Inabnet. If you want to talk about
leadership, she was the scoring presence onthe field
last year. She’s -been missed. Prime Example:
Appalachian State. Early in the second half Davidson
absolutely dominated the Lady ‘Apps by keeping the
ball on the ASU ‘side of the field for a good seven or
eight minute stretch. That’ $ fantastic, but if you don’t

score, ‘what good does. it do you? Sure it keeps them.

from scoring, but they’ré already. winning by two. I
feel sure Inabnet would have poked one in, and if the
defense keys on her, someone else is open and
everything is peachy keen.

But that’s the point —- Inabnet’ 's not there. What
Davidson needs is to: have someone change from a
four star player to a five star player. A member of the

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 October 1981

a i a a eo a a ee ae |

ee

Entering the second half, Davidson appeared a
little complacent behind its 30 point lead. BU running
back Paul Lewis swept right, cut left, eluded tacklers,
and marched into the endzone for a 49 yard:
touchdown run. Early in the fourth quarter, the
Terriers sustained a 66 yard drive with the help of a 36
yard pass interference penalty, and converted a fourth
and goal from the one to close the gap to 30 — 14.

On the Wildcats’ following possession,
Whitmire found the familiar No. 88 (Jones) free in
the Terrier secondary and rifled the pass to him for a

49 yard gain to the BU one. Whitmire snuck it over
the next play.

Any glimmer of hope for a Terrier comeback
disappeared as strong sfety Andre Kennebrew picked
off a BU pass in Davidson territory with just over
eight minutes to play. The Wildcats then
methodically marched downfield, and from the nine
Sinclair galloped in for the score.

Coach Farrell savored the victory, but was
cautious. “It was a great win,” he said, “on par with
the biggest wins Davidson has had, and indeed the
easiest big win. It has tremendously helped the total
confidence of the team and the coaches. But I really
don’t know much to attribute the win to the
opponents’ inability to adjust to ‘our change of
strategy.”

He just may find out tomorrow as Davidson, 2-3 ~

travels to the Citadel and next Saturday as they
return home to tackle Hampden-Sydney.

offensive line has to come into her own and become a
scoring presence. I know, easier said than done, but
maybe it hasn’t been said.

Coach Dee Mayes won’t make excuses, but face
it, she’s got a few that could be make. There’s not a
senior on that team. Four freshmen get a lot of
playing time. Heppner’s injured. What you've got is
a problem of losses. One loss to graduation, one loss
to injury, and five losses to opponents. But Mayes’s
biggest problem is the fans.

If we would stop expecting to watch a'nationally
competitive team out there, things wouldn’t seen so
bad. I’m not pardoning the team — I think they
should be 3-3. They should have beaten Catawba and
if you can beat High Point in a scrimmage you can
beat them in a game. But everybody guns for number
one, and you can bet Pfeiffer, an excellent team, was
playing a: grudge match. Then there's Clemson,
which plays in a higher league.

Still, we sit up on the hill and expect them to be
6-0. Worst of all, they know what we expect, and that
just frustrates them to no end. If we’d just relax,
maybe they could relax and regroup by the state
tourney and win it. After all, you think those state
champion jackets-don’t have pride written all over
them?

11

i A a ee ee ee el
