page 10

DAVIDSONIAN

Friday 18 September 1981

Davi sona

Lee Willngham "48

Director of the
~ Living Endowment
Lee. Willingham
transferred from Au-
gusta College to Da-
vidson in 1945. “Be-
ing a transfer I was ac-
cused Of freshman vi-
olations,” he ex-
plained, “and I wasn’t
a freshman!”

All the students
had to adapt to a great
change because of the
reentry of many army
men into college.
“We had to make a great adjustment. The integration
of fresh-out-of-high-school students with older army
men was somewhat awkward.”

Mr. Willingham was also required to-attend daily ~

chapels. “‘I have both positive and humorous recollec-
tions about this . . . -I still remember one year shortly
before the holiday vacation. I was sitting in chapel and
heard someone begin to chant ‘Hark the herald angels
shout:.three more days and we’ ll be out!’”

Mr. Willingham was 4 member of Phi Delta Theta -

fraternity. ““There just weren’t as many parties then,”
he said. The year before Mr. Willingham came to Da-
vidson, the college began allowing dances on campus.
“Still, most dances were in Charlotte because we had.
no place to have them.”

“All in all,” he summarized, “it was quiet. We
had to make our own activities: Except on big wee-
kends, we had to go out and find them [activities] in
Charlotte or wherever.”

“Davidson is academically stronger,” Willin-
gham said, but he stressed that “the requirements in-
side and outside of the classroom were tough” when he
was a student.

Lee Willingham director of the Living Endowment

Sandy Carnegie ’5

Executive Diner.
tor of the Wildcat
Club Sandy Carnegie
was a Davidson fresh-
man in 1946 and an
ex-G.I. from World
War II. “It was an in-
teresting time,” he
said. Because of the
war’s interruption, “I
literally . went to
school with people
who started here as
early as 1940 and as late as 1949. _

Mr. Carnegie played varsity football all four
years, but he “quickly found out that football was far
from being in first place at Davidson, and you had to
study.”

As for the classes themselves, “the ability to get
the kind of education you want-is much more flexible
than those days,” Mr Carnegie said. The electives were

“not nearly so numerous as the opportunities you have
today . . . . I think that’s a mark of the times.”

Mr. Camegie regrets the loss of the chapel period.
“I think the best thing it did was the camaraderie of the

student body,” he said. “To me the tragedy is that at .

Davidson College today there is never a time when the
total student body meets.”

While Mr. Carnegie was still at Davidson, he
married and had his first child. The college offered
used old army barracks across the street from the Cun-
ningham Fine Arts building as housing for married stu-
dents. They were called the ‘Cardboard Village’ be-
cause the walls were paper thin. “There were no secrets

in the Cardboard Village,” Mr.°Carnegie said. “My.

daughter was born the night we beat Nort Carolina
State in Charlotte, and I was playing football. That was
a great night for me . . . . I remember studying for ex-

ams and rocking that little girl, and I didn’t think any-

Sandy Carnegie. director of the Wildcat Club

have a social life.”

tors reflect

thing could be tougher than doing both of them at the
‘same time.’

Will Terry *54

‘Dean of Students
- Will Terry entered as
‘a freshman in 1950.
Fraternities ruled his
'. first week on campus.
“One of the real diffi-
culties with freshman
year was that rush was
the first week of
school. So, you went
through the ringer be- —
fore you even got ad-
justed to college. .
.Fraternities dominat-
ed social life, and if.
—- .-you-weren’t in-a-fra~ ~-
so ternity, you didn’t

Dean Terry has observed many changes in curric-
ulum, students, and faculty. “The. curriculum is much
broader and the requirements are less stringent. . .The
student body is much more highly selective. Students
weren’t as sophisticated as they are now. As far as the
faculty is concerned, in some ways the quality of the
faculty is probably stronger now, but the commitment
to teaching is not any stronger.”

“Coeducation is the best improvement I have seen
at Davidson. The freshman hall situation is the best im-
provement next to coeducation. . . . With our large

size, the loss of community, and the loss of unity is our
greatest loss, and the sense of community will continue
to diminish if the college gets larger.

6u07 9113 Aq ooyg

Will Terry, dean of studenis

wee Sgt re eg

IR.

‘Free drink special

“Taco b Dinner
* Taco salad”
_* Pintos’n cheese.
* Two beefy tacos. seth
Turn in ahs coupon when ordering a
Taco Dinner. and. get your choice of -
small soft drink, iced tea, or draft beer.

_ Offer expires 9/26/81 |

