world have representatives at t Davidson

nude © beaches,

T he French tiation is ‘Sa for its: ssaikis and

Chef’s Cap. .

oh Casey said, My, vite was a good cook to begin.
hildre: gave | her a lot of practice. ©
; we-mét a French couple in -
meal, pi After =e

tel twenty years ago,
Chartotte ‘and had our first*French-type
that introduction the Caseys began cooking French
food and ‘started visiting; France periodically. One of

their friends owns a.restaurant outside of Paris. This ~
French chef has taught them’ much about French foods :.
and wines. M™ Casey has taught: French cooking Class--

es and has shown off her cooking on television.

The Caseys moved to Davidson two and a half. -

years ago after their fifth child had grown up and left
home. M™- Casey said, “We were looking for acollege
town. on the water. near a courthouse.” Davidson was

perfect, except. M'.Casey,, who is an attorney in-Char-
lotte, cannot ride his bike to work as he did for a
number of years. Since they’ve been in Davidson he

has only make the long trek into Charlotte three times a
la bicyclette.

‘La Toque ‘Blanche / The Chef’s Cap stands where
the old town jail. and courthouse once ‘stood. About
twenty-nine. years: ago, a restaurant took the. jail’s
place. When. the restaurant closed down. three years
ago, M® Casey..went to the restaurant’s going-out-of-
business auction intending to buy some kitchenwares.
Within the week she and M' Casey decided to séek an
unfulfilled dream, La Toque Blanche. “Originally,”
said M™ Casey, “we intended to name our restaurant
Café dela Gare (Train Station Café), because the De-
pot is-just across the street.” But, she said with a grin of

her face;:“‘since no passenger trains stop at the Depot, .
we decided against-that name.” Asked the origin of the’ .

name La Toque Blanche, they replied, “It simply fit,”

as does the chef’s cap that M" Casey wears. “Since the |

‘ chef’s cap is in the shape of a mushroom, it gives-us a
‘motif to work with,” said M™ Casey.’
La Toque Blanche has served guests from Russia,
China, Brazil, Denmark, and France as well-as lots of
folks from Davidson and the eastern United States. The

its ‘ mavetick: ‘politics, its ’

chateaux of the Loire, Valley as well a8 its’
world-renowned masters of the culinary arts. Now Da-
vidson has’ been bestowed. with the privilege of expe= ~
riéncing these gastronomical delights with the help of
Hugh and Bettie Casey. of La Toque: Blanche h The —

ie

key to'her cuisine, said M™ Casey, is cooking in small

_ quantities: “I don’t cook on a'mass scale, because the

quality of the food would suffer. I cook right at the mo-
ment of the order instead of in advance.” Futhermore,
M' Casey carefully selects the wines to go with the cer-

tain foods served.: “There is a beautiful marriage be- |

tween the food and wine,” M™ Casey said. At a typical
restaurant, said M™ Casey, a wine list is handed to the
customer and little or no aid is given in wine sélection.

‘La Toque Blariche serves three, meticulously chosen

wines with the Saturday evening dinner.

La Toque Blanche serves’ lunch on Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, and Thursdays. Tuesday is international
day with.the menu being characteristic of a particular
nation. On Wednesdays a “rolled soufflé” is served,
and Thursday is pasta day. (The average price for lunch
is $2.50.) Helping M* Casey with lunch is Holly Gna-

Holly Gnagey and M™. Casey prepare net at La
x? ee Blanche.

". gey Hall, a 1979 Davidson graduate. “She makes the

bread and the sauces,” said M™ Casey, and she is inte-
gral to the operation,

Saturday evening dinner at La Toque Blanche is
“the main event.” In the traditional French manner a
five course répas consisting of hors d’ euvres, beef and
vegetables, salad, cheese, and dessert is served. Each
course is brought to the table separately so that the cus-
tomer can concentrate on aid savor each food individu-
ally. The dinner last from.7:30 pm to 10:30 pm and is
an excellent way to entertain several friends on a spec-

_ jal occassion, It costs $28.50. Asked if their enterprise

has. been successful, M" Casey replied, “The rewards
are more for the spirit than for the purse. .” For their pa-

_ trons, the rewards are gastronomical i in nature.

By Newton Allen ’82.

: “Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”

131.N, Main Street © Davidson, N.C.
coo §92-0208

"Mon. - Sat. 9-6; Teriporatity Closed on Sun.
2 D. . Senior Citizen Discount-10%

‘i

“Pre-medical students

Current undergraduate pre-medical students |
- may now compete for several hundred Air

__ Force scholarships. These scholarships are to.

be awarded to students accepted into medi- -

cal schools as freshmen or at the beginning.

of their sophomore year. The scholarship
provides fér tuition, books, lab ‘fees, ‘and: ©
_ equipment, plus a $530. monthly allox me

“Investigate this’ financial ‘alternative ;
— 1 vn tte aarwnanlaed

~ Contact: este Bie

BARBER FOR ‘MEN AND.
ae aes _ WOMEN.»
| YOU NAME tT — WE’ LL
ee “STYLE TT 3

MAIN STREET

aie! Deis Te ae Sat ae J Poe A Pra

photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85.
