page 22

DAVIDSONIAN

Friday 18 September 1981

The Great White North

James Barrat ’83

OHN F. KENNEDY BELCHED LONG AND LOUD WITHIN

his shack, its loose tin roof reverberating

through the early morning camp. Mosquitoes rose
and settled, fat and sedentary with last night’s blood.

“You make me sick,” muttered Funsten disdain-
fully from his slouch by the fire.

“You make me sick,” returned John F. Kennedy,
the voice from the shack.

“You both make me sick,” I declared with exag-
gerated contempt, and crossed the camp to stir the oat-
meal which spat angrily from atop the Coleman.
Tempers were short at camipside.

Minutes later Funsten and I spun and whirled,
hitching down Route 9-to Kenai. We had left John F.
still spooning his oats at the camp and set out on our
morning rounds to the five neighboring salmon canner-
ies. As we gamboled down the highway our minds held
a single thought and ‘all other considerations were

means to our objective: work. James Funsten and I had

journeyed 5,000 miles (the last thousand we had hitch-
hiked) to find jobs in the Salmon Capital of Alaska,
Kenai, and spend the season working inthe area. Upon
setting up camp in Kenai we had resolved to rise daily
at dawn and hitch to the two canneries across the Kenai
River, the two we liked best. Arriving there before
eight a.m. we would inquire about the hiring scene,
showing our eager faces in a calculated effort, and then
return across the river to check in on the three canneries
nearest our camp before nine. A week had passed and
no luck. Cannery officials met our inquiries.with mixed
interest. While most were encouraging and assured us
our persistence would pay off, others groaned at our
daily visits and undoubtedly viewed the transient labor
force that annually descended on Kenai as an unwel-
come but inevitable plague. Nevertheless, as eight
a.m. approached we could be found bleary-eyed on the
highway, trying to muster a cheerful demeanor with
which to assail our prospective employers.

Lately our nearness in reaching our goal had be-
come painfully sweet. The day before, Rick, a fore-
man at Sea Catch Inc., had actually told us to call him
after hours to see if he ‘needed extra hands on the glaz-
ing crew. The glazing crew, we had seen, worked in a
cold, wet comer of the processing plant, a huddled

On Campus

Dave Banks °8

James Barrat poses in front of Mount Raini
er on his way to Alaska.

cluster bundled up beyond recognition who, with ma-
chines, did something useful to frozen fish. Just what
we couldn’t determine, but it looked like hell. Regard-
less, with forty dollars between us and half a world
away from home, joining those frozen forms was a
very appealing prospect. “I can’t promise anything,”
Rick told me on the phone, “but stop by tomorrow

morning.”

And we did. We cornered the foreman in the
frosty whirl of a freezer room, clipboard in hand, sur-
rounded by shelves of frozen salmon, taking names I
supposed. Rick recognized us with a quick glance, his
face contorted with the cold, motioned for us to follow

him, and set off at a brisk clip through the glazing
plant. Perhaps his pace wasn’t meant to lose us in the
ensuing labyrinth, but I couldn’t help. but notice his
look of surprise as Funsten and I fell into his office on
his heels. Rick had the look of a troubled man, partly,
we were to learn, because of the precariousness of his
position within the unstable Sea Catch hierarchy, and
also because he had two people in his office he couldn’t
find jobs for. Rick had a reputation for over-hiring in
his department and was aware of the delicacy of his si-
tuation. he was waiting for the axe to fall.

“Sorry fellas,” he shrugged, “I don’t have any-
thing for you today,” We were crushed. “But I’ll keep
you on my list,” he concluded, scratching a note on his
pad. I noticed he pencilled ‘healthy’ beside our names.
This, we guessed, was as opposed to ‘unhealthy’,
‘maimed’, or ‘deranged.’ Though this type of person-
nel grading was new to us, it was useful for the canner-
ies to keep tabs on which of their employees could be
counted on for the whole season. There is a very high
turnover rate among seasonal labor in Kenai, and while
we were there we saw dozens pack it in.and head south
for more temperate climes. However, “healthy” or not,
we were dejected and turned to leave.

At that moment a young man bearing a strong re-
semblence to Jimi Hendrix burst into the room. He
talked fast, was quick and lively, and in the blur of the
next few minutes Ron Zie, our new foreman, had
snatched us from the masses of Alaska’s transient un-
employed and put our anxiety at ease. Ron was Sea
Catch’s Floor Foreman and put us to work in the Sal-
mon processing line. Initially trained as fish ‘slitters’ ,
we gradually learned to perform other functions on the
processing floor, more commonly called the ‘slime
line’. From that day hence we were relieved to be
“slime liners” for the duration of the season at $5.50 an
hour and time-and-a-half overtime.

James Barrat is a junior philosophy major from
Shepherdstown, West Virginia and opinions editor of
the Davidsonian. James spent. the summer travelling |
and worked in a salmon cannery on the Kenai Peninsu-
la in Alaska.

While away. for the three months
you missed two surprises. here i in North
Mecklenburg. ‘The first surprise, David-

son-the-College disappeared temporari

ly, leaving Main and Concord a bit de de-

serted. Itseems that while everyone was
summering at his favorite coastal spot

there was, alas, noone to keep an eyeon .

the College.
So it vanished, simple and neat;
~ “Oh ho!” you ‘are thinking. “The

perceiver and the petceived. The nice

people in the ‘philosophy department
warned me this might happen and I just

thought it was hokum. Was I ever
naive.”

But that, of course, is only the of-
ficial ex tion of the event. A friend
gives us a we i Vefsion: - -
ic Mid-June everybody got to think-

ing ti | stand a might of re-
ting.*.”. So. they send it back. to

the manutacturer— ups— todo alittle

touch-up. Postage was steep,.you can

bet, and some parking lots were lost or ;

damaged in transit. Took att six
weeks, allin all.

“Surprisingly though, no one in
town missed it.”

Surprising indeed: Davidson-the-

college fancies itself as the centerpiece
of. Davidson-the-town, but there are
more than a handful of stifled in-town
cheers each June. We came across this

~ piece, to:make the point, in The Village
. Green,
.Moreland H. Hogan.

17’ September’ 1978, by one

The barbarians have’ returned:
hirsute, weirdly. patched, modishly
dirty, and driving expensive chariots, ~
Three months without them and we

had almost forgotten their tribal rites

and distinctive costumes. Davidson
dozed .through .a..peacefil...summer-..

with uncrowded sidewalks and: rela-
tively safe .streets.. Best of all, we
lived without their noise—the.caco-
phonous howls they misname music.
Town_ ys. gown is .an_ancient
grudge match, played for centuries in
hundreds of places and continued for -
the most part by the town side, which
is afterall the home team. The barbar-
ians;* now’ gownless; are regarded:
with astonishment: .and . amusement
and. occasionally-hostility by the lo-
cals. We are aware, however, that
they bring some cash, which perhaps
makes up for the fact that they're the
“only local industrial product that gets
out of the toon t before it is finished.

- But for now, ‘student ‘and: alma
mater are happily reunited, and every-
one welcomes the new freshmen —. thn:
Davidson rookies.

: Which brings up ‘surprise ‘icnilier

two.. Bo Derek, .John Lennon, Mz

West, and Ron Reagan have enrolled!
See for yourself. They’re in the 1981
Wildcat Handbook posing under con-
vincing pseudonyms, When we en-

"quired at the Dean.of Students’ office,

they admitted that “it was difficult to get
them. We had to offer them full scholar-
ships to come.”
‘But will Ron be playing a little
football for the Cats?:
“No, well, he’s really just here for
the academics mostly.”

So then. A happy catch for the ad-
missions office. Best of luck Ron, but
keep your fingers crossed — you never
know when your student aid will be cut
or your work-study. hours tripled.

Dave Banks is executive editor of the
Davidsonian.
