Mary Shaffer leads First Richardson in the
tug-of-war during the freshman regatta.

DAVIDSONIAN

upy13 Gyeqez13 Aq cr04g

Friday 18 September 1981

Harriers lose tight

three-way race

by John Hoots ’82

The Davidson men’s cross country
team narrowly lost.a race to. the wire
Saturday against Western Carolina and
the University of South Carolina at
Spartanburg. The host Wildcats
finished last in the three-way season op-

‘ener, the Western Carolina Catamounts

winning laurels in the 40-42-43 race.
Coach Sterling Martin had expected a
close meet with Western, but admitted
he was “surprised” by the strength of the
USCS squad.

Sophomore Frank “Fat Man” Ivey
paced the cats, finishing first for David-
son and fifth overall with a time of
34:28. Ivey’s mark was 22 seconds bet-
ter than DC team captain Randy “Old
Man” McManus. who placed right be-

hind the Fat Man. McManus was the
pre-race favorite, but he developed
cramps and was forced off the pace.
Jack Smith, Garry Sullivan, Jim Trot-
ter, and John Rus rounded out the top
Wildcat finishers.

Seniors McManus and Danny Ar-
mistead (who was recovering from Sa-
turday’s MCATs) normally pace the
Wildcat workouts and should be back in
form for tomorrow’s away meet with
Duke. The Blue Devil Harriers easily
took the race a year ago.

The Lady Cats return a nearly
complete squad from last year for their
opener in Durham. Led by sophomore
Tamara Foreman, the women roughed
up Duke. last year, but expect stiffer
competition this season.

Soccer team off to a slow start

by Mark Elmore ‘82

At a glance, it appears as though the Davidson
Soccer Team is in for a rough season. This is only
Coach Slagle’s second year, the team’s defense lost
four perennial starters and last year’s recruiting failed
to attract any world-famous talent. With-these factors
considered, how could this team win a tournement in-
cluding Hampden-Sydney, Christopher Newport and
High Point on September 5 and 6? For starters, the Cats

are intelligent and can verbally coerce'their opponents -

into lying down and letting them walk the ball into the
net. Second, they all speak English and lack the com-
munications problems that beset their big-budgeted
opponents who purchase their soccer machines from
caves in the Congo and sequested villages in the
Andes.

In the first game, it was Chucky Price that beat the
soccer machines from Hampden-Sydney with two
beautifully placed direct kicks—a game winner in the

overtime that floated over the opponents wall and into

the net’s upper right corner.

Following their 2-1 win over Hampton-Sydney
Saturday, Davidson faced High Point inthe finals Sun-
' day. A bit’sluggish from their previous match, the
Cats’ defense allowed High Point the first goal. But

with a fury similar to last year’s, Chris Roberts took the

ball down the left wing and blew in a reamer to tie.
This game went into overtime, which added two
ten-minute periods of plays. After the extra minutes,
the game. ‘was still tied. To decide the outcomie, five
players were chosen from each squad to shoot penalty
kicks. With the kicks at Davidson 3, Hligh Point 2, and

one kicker left on each team, Chuck Price blasted in the
fourth to secure a Davidson victory.

Tuesday, the Cats arrived in Raleigh victorious,
but apprehensive about their match with N.C. State,
who has the money to find and buy expensive soccer
machines. In fact, State is predicted to be in-the top 10
teams in the country this season. Well, we got killed,
but there were bright spots. Though the final score was
5-0, the Cats dominated play for 20 minutes in the se-
cond half and Slagle was able to do extensive experi-
menting and substituting

Saturday’s game at Guilford proved dishearten-
ing for Davidson since they played poorly and lost 3-0.
“It was just one of those days,” admitted Bill Wall.
“We were beaten to the ball all over the field, it was ter-
ribly hot, and they played very dirty.”

Wednesday night at Appalachian State (the
Southern Conference powerhouse) went much better.
Although the Cats lost 2-0 everyone hustled and

worked well together. In three years ASU has out- .

scored the Cats about twenty to one, so a 2-0 loss is
quite admirable.

_Chris Roberts believed the game to be the year’s
best. “Davidson was attacking the entire game. Only
two shots within ten yards made the difference: We

dominated the game pace and forced them to respect _

us.”

In the past the Apps have controlled the game
pace at will. This year their coach admitted that David-
son had forced them to play at Davidson’s pace, some-
thing that is not common on the astroturf in Boone or

elsewhere.

The teams play together impressed all the seniors
and greatly please Slagle. With a completely new set of
defenders and the offensive punch of Roberts and C.K.
Nichols, the team works quite well. Several seniors ev-
en admitted that it is the best soccer team that Davidson
has fielded: Well,-I don’t believe it guys. You are go-
ing to have to show me.

A play that worked

CB 3§ CB

A play that worked _

This play was successful five out of six times against
Newberry, for an average of fifteen yards per Carry.
It worked twice against Wofford as well for two key
first downs. [1] The quarterback takes the snap and

. fakes a hand-off to the fullback, [2] and then hands
off to the halfback. [3] The halfback runs right while
the quarterback bootlegs left: [4] The halfback hands
off to the wingback [5] who reverses direction to the
left, following the lead-block of the tight end. Watch
for this play in either direction in upcoming games. .

Tue Cuer’s Cap / La Toove BLANCHE

127 DEPOT STREET
P.O. BOX 601°
NC 28086

DAVIDSON,
(704) 892-2412

~ Now serving lunch 12—2

Monday through Thursday ~ ao
. —Soups 75* to $1.25
—Breads 25° to. TS
—Desserts 75 to $1. 50

Homemade
‘Different menu

everyday

e No Investment!
¢ Professional Sales Help
Provided: = ~~

© incentive
e Sell over 60:
° BE YOUR Ow

rams!
Brands!
BOSS!

Call or Write
_Serious Inquiries ONLY!

AUDIO OUTLET, INC.

‘ :
Gm om oom oom Ss

Yewark NJ 07}
