Reaganomics Nearly End Student Aid Program

by Mahmoud Sayani '84

The-North Carolina College Foun-
dation (NCCF) turned down nineteen of
the 125 Davidson students who applied

for GSL loans because part of its federal ~

support fell to the Reagan apeitatica-
tion cutbacks.

North Carolina students this year
had rushed to get their application in be- -
fore 1 October, in order to avoid giving
proof of need. After 1 October only
needy students were eligible for GSLs.
This, among other factors, dried out
NCCF’s GSL money in the first week of
September.

The Executive Director of NCCF
said the foundation has allocated all

available funds for the year 1981-1982,

having made 15,000 loans amounting to

a total of $36 million. (—

This is a five percent feduétion
from funds available last year.

NCCF referred an equal number of
applications to, Citibank in New’ York
which has agreed to act as a lender-of-

 Jast-resort and_ grant as many. student _

loans as possible, ;

NCCF did. not know, however,
how many loans Citibank would be able
to pick up.

Citibank officials were unavailable
for comment on this situation.

In its memorandum to affected stu-
dents, NCCF cited, “the depressed con-
dition of the national ‘economy, particu-
larly in the revenue bond market” as the
reason for its inability to obtain ade-
quate funding.

Assistant Director of Financial Aid
Kathleen Stevenson said, “students may

have been inconvenienced in that they

had to apply again [this time to Cit-
‘ ibank], but this is no real problem.” She

expects that Citibank will come through
withthe money for Davidson students.
Stevenson also believes that the prob-
lem this year has been an 81 percent in-
crease in loan: applications is year.

New rules for GSLs that went into
effect Thursday allow only for a need -
based loans and eliminate all grace peri-
ods. Interest rates and minimum annual
loan repayment amounts were also in-
creased.

Citibank is offering the loans on
the same terms as NCCF. There are no
family income restrictions. Annual in-
terest rates are nine percent, charged
and payable six months after gradua-
tion. Other special features of these

#

loans include up to $2500 per annum for
dependent undergraduates, and up to
ten year repayment periods.

Students in other states are also af-
fected by the federal cutbacks. The Ca-
valier Daily, a University of Virginia
newspaper, quoted Barry Dorsey of the
Virginia Council on Higher Education
as saying students would lose $10-15
million in 1982.

The Chronicle for Higher Educa-
tion estimated the total national GSL
funds at $16.4 bilion, a figure that has
caused much concern to both the Rea-
gan and Carter administrations. Reagan
cutbacks have already affected the
eighteen month old Education Depart-
ment, and large cuts in GSL funds will
probably have adverse effects on private
universities and colleges like Davidson.

SGA Forms Its Standing Committees

by Jeff Holland ‘84

The SGA has established its stand-
ing committees for the 1981-82 school
-year and has chosen chairmen for these
committees.

Membership on these committées
is open to any ‘Davidson student. “Any-
one is invited and encouraged to join
any committee they are interested in.”
said SGA Vice-President Chip Hurley.

This year’s committees include the
following:

ADMISSIONS: The Admissions com-
mittee is involved in getting Davidson
students to write prospective students in
or near their hometown, and in organiz-
ing SGA weekend. The chairwoman is
sophomore Ester Kim, -6102.
_ PHONATHON: There will be a repeat
of last year’s highly successful alumni
phonathon. This year it will be ex-
panded to include alumni from all gra-
duating classes from 1906 on. Last
year’s goal of $60,000 has been raised
to $100,000, and the phonathon is

planned for 10 days during the first two
weeks of winter term. If you are inter-
ested in being a night chairman or on the
calling staff see senior Stuart Dorsett, -
4063, or junior Ken Krieg, -6149.

TRUSTEE CONTACT: This is a rela-
tively independent committee made up
of students who write letters to the Trus-
tees concerning campus issues. The stu-
dents express their own opinions and
write one or two letters a term. Students
also meet .and talk with the Trustees
when they visit the campus. The chair-

. man is Barry Mack, -6769.

FACULTY STUDENT RELA-
TIONS: This is a new committee set up
for the purpose of getting faculty and
students better acquainted on an infor-
mal basis. Chairmen Scott Eblin hopes
to_extend the idea behind coffee and
cokes and avoid the rushed and superfi-
cial feeling there. The meetings will be
bi-weekly and the first one will be at the
Commons on Friday at 4:30. Interested
people should call Scott Eblin, -6754.

COMMONS: This committee serves as
a liason between the Freshmen Food
Service Committee, which is composed
of representatives from each freshmen
hall and the SGA. The committee will

\also discuss issues such as the future of

Patterson Court, catering, and any other
matters concerning the College Dining
Service. Interested studnets should call
Lentz Ivey, -6144.

CORPORATE RELATIONS: The

Corporate Relations Committee seeks

to improve contacts between executives
of top firms and Davidson students and
works with Ken Wood -in the Careers
Office to establish the needs of students
in the area of corporate relations. Inter-
ested students should call senior Stuart
Dorsett, -4063.

ATHLETICS: This is an advisory com-
mittee to the Athletic Department and

* helps facilitate contact between the stu-

dents and the Athletic Department. In-
terested students should call junior Grey
Hampton, .-6597, or senior Andy

Brown, -6743.

SECURITY: The Security Commit-
tee’s top priority for this year will be to
evaluate the parking situation and sug-
gest changes in the space allotments and

/fegulations, said the chairman junior

Tim Johnstons The Security Committee
also serves as an advisory to campus se-
curity at parties and other college
events. Interested students should call
Tim Johnston, -6395.

CAREER SYMPOSIUM: There are a
number of symposia planned for this
year including a large one in the spring
and several smaller ones throughout the
year. Interested students should call
George Thompson, -6199.

RIDES: The Rides Committee is re-

_Sponsible for driving students to and

from the airport at breaks and at the end
of the year, In the past the committee
has utilized both college owned and pri-
vate vehicles and volunteer drivers. In-
terested students should contact Tracy
Thompson, -6137,.

Now Open-

Sadler Square - beside Gus’s

— *Coin- Op Laundry

Mon. - Sat. hours:

8:00 am to 10:00pm. —

Sun. Ipm to 6pm.

"page §/ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981
