Friday 18 September 1981

DAVIDSONIAN

Blow-up explodes; Express races

Nick Graham

Just when you thought that it was
safe to open the Davidsonian again . . .
yes, rather like Dracula rising from the
grave or Ingrid Bergman walking into
Rick’s Cafe, Nick’s Flicks has’ risen
again to regale you with some quick wit
and ready ‘repartee at least tenuously
connected with this term’s Fine Films
schedule. After a summer of ogling
either at Karen Allen in sheer silk
dresses with nothing beneath them, or
Christopher Reeve in blue lurex tights

(depending on your preference) the-ap-

prentice cinephiles of Davidson College
have many rich moments in store.

Blow-up

During the summer some of you
may well have taken in Brian de Pal-
ma’s latest feature Blow-Out, a fine
thriller which takes as its point of depar-
ture the idea that the hapless John Tra-
volta becomes a so-called “ear-witness”
of a murder when he records the sot 1ds
of gunfire. Without wishing to dis -
age de Palma this plot is taken alt ¢
wholesale from Michelangelo A
nioni’s 1966 masterpiece Blow- >
which is this week’s Fine Film.

‘As the change in title suggests th
original has a photographer rather than
sound-technician as hero, and Antonio-
ni fully exploited the relationship be-
tween the arts of moving and still pic-
tures to produce a tantalisingly beautiful
homage to the capabilities of the all-see-
ing eye of the camera lens. David Hem-
mings here plays a _ successful
fashion-photographer who while taking
pictures of two lovers in a London park
accidentally captures evidence of a
murder. His realisation that what he has
seen actually is a murder only crystal-
lizes (of course) much later when the
photographs are printed, and much of
the first half of the film is taken up with
his increasingly obsessive and techni-
cally impressive attempts to isolate the
incriminating evidence in a. series of
huge blow-ups' of the’ scéne: of the
crime. However, when his studio is
raided ‘by persons. unknown, and his
prints removed the film: slides into alto-
gether darker territory :as, Hemmings

slowly begins to. doubt whether he actu:

ally saw anything in the park at all: there
is no body, witnesses cannot be found,

friends are éither too bored or too stoned —

to assist him. The truth-telling eye of

the camera, it is'suggested tous, is falli- 3

pi after all, indeed is unreliable in an

together disturbing fashion. Inthe se- .

coal half of the film, the Hemmings
character is stripped of his defenses
against life in the modern metropolis in
~a ruthless fashion, in a manner much
more recognisably the province of

_ ‘The Italian director was working in’
English for the first time, and interest-

ingly enough in colour for only the se-
cond, largely on the strength of his suc-

cess with Il Deserto Rosso in the pre-
vious year, which had
distinctly un-Italian Richard Harris con-
templating his capitalist navel during a
trenchantly proletarian labour dispute in
the industrial wasteland of Ravenna.
The favourite of hip Anglo-American
audiences for several years, he was then
taken off to London, at that time swing-
ing with all the lunatic energy of the six-
ties, in order to make this film, fairly
freely adapted from a story by Jorge
Luis Borges. Antonioni manages to in-
ject into the film a commendably pow-

‘erful dose of existentialist angst, al-
though whether, 15 years on, it is-

enough to lift the film out of the realm of
social archaeology and into that of
Cinema-as-Art is open to question. His

_ relentless pursuit of the illusion-making

abilities of the camera inevitably tends
to invite the question of whether or not
Antonioni views his own art, or at least
its technical procedures, as a sham.

Certainly, the film captures the viewer’s
attention in a series of situations which —

are repeatedly revealed as substanceless
fictions, to the ultimate confusion of all
concerned.

The things to watch for in the first
half are the ways in which Hemmings’
image and place in his own world are es-
tablished: with an atmy of submissive

’ assistants working for him in the dark-

room he can spend his time in steamy
photo-sessions with Jane Birkin orrelax
with a brace of willing nymphet-

groupies. As the film proceeds the pho-

tographer becomes increasingly isolat-

ed, and his wanderings around a grimly ~

hostile nocturnal London cut through
the glamour and noise of the historical
period to leave an image of the city
more obviously associated with the sev-
enties than the previous decade. The
sole relief comes when he wanders into
a club and finds The Yardbirds playing
there. Of particular interest to rock his-
torians this, as it is the short-lived five-
man version of the band: when Jeff Beck
and Jimmy Page were playing ‘guitar. In
the event, Beck destroys his instrument
with almost Townsendian grace and our

hero retreats into the night.

~The film both begins and ends with
the same image—a group of street

, actors play, a game of tennis. without

balls: The ‘implications for the film are
perhiaps slightly ironic here, but Antoni-
‘oni ‘prosécutes his intentions with con-
siderable wit, and you will have to go to

: see the film to find out the truth about
the murder. Coming on Wednesday, in

Love at 8.00pm. -

Midnight Express
‘Showing tonight in Pop Films is a
rather excellent British production,
Midnight Express directed by Alan
Parker. More or less fictionalised from
an apparently true account it concerns
the fate of Billy Hayes, an American

starred -a ,

-gentleman-—whose name

college student who attempts to smug-
gle some recreational vegetable matter
out of Turkey at the end of his summer
vacation, As soon becomes apparent the

Turkish judiciary take exception to this ¥

sort of behaviour and imprison him for a

long stretch. The film details his adjust-
ment to prison life and his attempts to

' escape—to take the Midnight Express

of the title—-the only way out of his har-
rowing, degrading ordeal. The film was
banned. in Turkey itself; and engen-
dered considerable xenophobic resent-
ment, not so much, one suspects, for the
portrayal of ruthlessly sadistic warders
as for the fact that the judiciary are
shown to be entirely sensitive to politi-
cal expediency. Prize performances are
most notable by John Hurt as a drug-
crazed. English veteran prisoner and the
escapes
me—who played the. obese and bruta-

lised: chief warder. To its further credit —

the film addresses the subject of. prison
homosexuality in a commendable fa-

—shion_and_maintains.a fierce realism in.
its documentation of our hero’s descent

|

through the degradation of violence,
and finally madness, before his near-
miraculous escape to Greece. Highly
recommended, if strong stuff,-this film.

Visulite
-Coming to the Visulite this week
are two exceptional features of the film-
about-film variety. Stuntman stars Peter

ih 7\

1 Fal y

O’ Toole as a possibly homicidal direc-
tor harbouring a fugitive from justice
masquerading as a stuntman and’ is
highly recommended. Francois Truf-
faut’s La Nuit ‘Americaine | (Day for

Night) is probably the finest film ever
made about the cinema itself and stars
Truffaut himself as director along with a
host of his regular players including the
excellent Jean Pierre Leaud. Full of af-
fectionate references to Truffatit’s pre-
vious. work the film ‘is irresistibly ;
charming, ‘its humour always rising
above the ever-present undertone of
personal tragedy. Cancel all other en-
gagements'and go to see it.

305 N. MAINSTREET
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
(704) 892-3005.

Copeland House Gallery

and prints
of all kinds. :
