~

Be: Cale Bon aes two

* Berry were the most ‘scored in one matach: by ‘any team at the —

, tournament.

_ College Bowl Coach, German Professor Hansford Epes, said a er
a y impressed with this team,” in last week’s tournament: He’

said captian, junior Brad Mullis, and team members junior Marvin _ ti iclists 68 301 November until 3 pm.

; Overby, junior Gordon Turbull, and sophomore John Eglin, may
have qualified for the National Tournament to be held this spring
ie with their two wins.

a defeat, o

ie anyway. Such’ an, invitation asda not: be without precedent, Mey, ic

te she said.

If the biuaizaion dies not give Davidson an invitation to the

tional Tourrnament, in Decernber it will send the team to a Radio
_ Tournament in California, where Davidson will meet the University
Pe of Caligorni, according, to D‘ Epes.

collected 299 pints. The sit was + 300 pints:

Belk! First Center West won the pizza and beer dinner with 75% _.

participation. Senior Susan Roberts. won the student random

' drawing for lunch for two at the Chef’s Cap. D‘ Kimmel. won the

faculty random drawing for dinner for two at the Meeting Place, and
Paul Barker won the administration and staff random drawing for
dinner for two at the Little Kitchen,

‘There were 81 first-time donors. Three hundred twenty-nine .
i eae people attempted to donate, but 30 were not accepted. for various

FeAsONS,: such as medication, sickness and lack. of so ah

3 2 aa ‘Aisin Scie Music Convocation ee

rn ee. choir directors and musicians from
: ie enon will feature Peter Planyabsky from Vienna and

will include a special toe of Olivier’ y
_for the End of Time.” es

hed will speak on Austrian organ musi, il perform a

NEWS SUN

e ‘ae team. went. undefeated at a ena , during the c

da $2. 0 for students and $27.50 for other adults.)
: ‘Davideou vs. NC State

lly ‘a team m t win three cakes at tadio tournaments eS
: in a regional tournament, but-because .
-» Davidson only had the opportunity to play two matches, the national _
a ‘organization might invite Davidson to. the National Tournament,

3 Institute of spon ar w was oe ‘only team at

The 2 annual Sacred Music Convocation will be held here :

gen’ s “Quartet

ie recital and will chick a. master class. on | organ improvisation :

vation. Other events include a talk by Day ae
u dimir M pose, and a ae ah! holy

s fee for the eevovation J hee

Students may buy tickets to the 30 November basketball game.

against} NC State from November 11-20. ‘The hours for’ ticket pick-u" ree

p are 9 am to noon and from 2 pm to 4:30. Students may also pick up

College receives $300, 000 erdit

. The College has received a $300,000 grant for faculty support.
“The grant is from the John D. and Catherine’ F. MacArthar
Foundation of Chicago “to be used to endow professorships to assist -
‘in bringing new and promising faculty members.to the institutions.”
‘Davidson is one of 16 liberal arts colleges receiving a grant.
‘Vice President. for Development Jack Powers said, “We're
particularly pleased with the Tecognition this gives Davidson, and at

~ the importance; this foundation is giving to privately supported
as undergraduate education. ae

WDAYV holds yearly radiothon 3
WDAV will hold-its third annual fundraising radiothon,
Celebration ’81, from 30 November to 6 December. The station

"hopes to raise $50;000:

Volunteers will man telephones while special everits such as live

poe performances, interviews with special guests, and the
} annual “Top 40 countown” of listener’ s favorite classical works are
Se

fe pent are ie

rail iiiecatanTonweow

Fall convocation will be held this Saturday at 10:30 am in | Love

Auditorium. Three ‘honorary degrees and the Thomas Jefferson

award for teaching will be presented.

- Faculty Evaluation

_. The Vice President for Academic Affair’s Office will distribute

ICES faculty evaluation forms to students next week. The College
started using the ICES Bye for compiling student evaluations of
faculty last } ie

Computer : search available at library
DIALOG, a computer search service owned by Lockheed

Corporation i is now available to faculty, staff, and students at the |

ce ‘Library.

‘Indices and abstracts in the physical and social sciences as well
as the humanities are available for search.

- The service will be free “for the next couple months, ° Library
Director ea Park said. .

James Moore Prodicuion Manager ;
isa Buckley HeadCompositor
Kathy Gingrich ‘Compositor
Sohn Lusk Conpeetnr

: BiNAppleton ‘ArtEditor
imley Staff Artist -

pion Staff Artist
Todd @wottord, ‘StatfArtist

