6—The Davidsonian—January 30, 1981

Sports,

IMAC

By George Maurrel!

Hi! My name is George Murrell, and I’m your new IMAC
reporter.

Having the weighty responsibility of reporting IMAC, I
thought that I should at least find out what this

either. Well, for the record, IMAC means Intramural Athletic
Council. But it may surprise you to know that no such council!
by this title currently exists at Davidson. Where then does the
term come from?

According to Intramural Directur Sterling Martin, the council,
was disbanded in the late °60’s. Until then the council consisted!
of representatives from the 12 fraternity teams anda sole
independent team. About 85 percent of the student body at this
time were members of fraternities. The one independent team
consisted of people who either weren’t interested in a fraternity!
or—more likely —had been blackballed from fraternity member-

IMAC was taken with infinitely more seriousness under this
system than it is today. A very precise point system was used to
determine a ys1iy champion, to whom a trophy was awarded. |
The championship was a highly contested honor which the Phi
Delts usually won. In fact, the Delts won the championship for!
14 straight years until the now defunct Kappa Sigs won in 1966.'
The point system was so complex and the competition so heated
that. it took the arbitration of a faculty parliamentarian to,
dethrone the Delts.

The major downfall of the old system was that since winning
was the only concern, participation was low. Only the best
athletes got to play for their teams. Students might have gone
thyeugh their first two or three years at Davidson without ev oe
getting the opportunity to play.

Martin and other members of the administration saw a need
for a change, so in the late ’60’s the present system wag
incorporated.

As for the future of IMAC at Davidson, there are severs)
possibilities: a revised system of interfraternity competitio.)
that would be integrated into the existing one, C league
competition that would offer even greater participation, and ¢
new intra-mural athletic council which would relieve the heavy.

student representative.
By the way, my personal polling firm of Barron, Bayles and
Mack, P.A. renders the folowing Top Ten:
1. Cool Breeze
2. Fido
3. True Grits
4. We’re Pathetic
5. Phi Delt
6. MaX Relax
7. Takes All Kinds

10. B. League Hackers of Coming East

acronym
actually stands for. I’m sure that many of you don’t know °

workload of running IMAC activities currently handled by on¢ ~

Turnovers the culprit

Losses outshine stellar play by Frankhouser

By DEBBIE CARLTON
Staff Writer

Turnovers: a disease affect.

ing the nerve.center of the wo-
men’s basketball team. Side
effects include a 1-11 record,
suicides in practice, and frustra-
tion. Total number of turnovers
committed in the past three
games, 83, shows the serious-
ness of the team’s condition.
Davidson committed 22 turn-
overs against Methodist in a
83-77 loss. Even the 27 points
by Mike Frankhouser did not
provide a cure for bad passing
careless mistakes, The Cats led
for most of the game but foul
trouble complicated the condi-
tion with Carol Heppner,
Jeanne Womack, and Mike
Frankhouser on the bench for
the last four minutes of play.
The game against St. An-
drews was further proof of the

. severity of the affliction with 31

turnovers committed in a 65-59
loss. The depth of St. Andrews
enabled them to keep a fresh
team on the court by substi-
tuting five players every few
minutes. Frankhouser had 22
points followed by Jeanne Wo-
mack with 14. Rebounding to-
tals were low in both games.

The two-game roadtrip was
important for group therapy.
Most players try to keep high
spirits and positive attitudes
through fun and games off the
court. Freshmen ballplayers
Debbie Hays, Nancy Bondu-
rant, Harriet Holshuijsen, and
Laura Hills sewed the team
together with an amusing prank
between games. Barbara
Hoopes says, ‘‘the weekend trip
brought the team closer than
‘ever.””

The superb defensive play

against N.C.-Wesleyan was en-
couraging, even though the
Bishops converted 30 Davidson
turnovers into points with fast-
break plays. The Cats came
within 3 points of tying the
game in the second half, coming
frm a 9 point deficit at the end
of the first period. The chance
was lost on a turnover. The
Cats have not been aggressive
under the basket, especially on
offensive rebounds. The solid
Bishop players were not adverse
to applying physical force to
intimidate the Cats. Mike
Frankhouser drilled in 17 points
followed by 11 by Kirby Owen.

“Sports Scripts

Southern Conference Basketball Plaver of the Week honors
went to Rich DiBenedetto !..st week. Richie ').. the Davidson
junior forward picked up 34 points on 76 percent shooting trom
the field. and 27 rebounds in' :ding the ‘Cats toa pair of leayrue
wins. In the 73-72 decision over Furman, DiBenedetto was
i0-ot-L1 from the field and pulled in 15 rebounds.

The home court has been very favorable to Southern
Conference basketball teams this year. The home team’s success
rate, in 30 conference games, is 24 vi ‘tories or 80 percent. At one
point last week, the rate was 22-of-26 for an incredible 84.6
percent. Nine of the home wins have been by maryins of six
points or less. The most formidable opponent at home has been
Bobby Cremin’s Appalacr‘: ams, who in the last five and a
half years have won 57 o. us »» me games.

Spend the summer
in New England

‘Camp Becket boys’ camp in the

GET-A-WAY

Si all day and come home to cuddle up by the
fireplace in secluded hideways in the
Great Smokies. Thirty dollars tor two; $35 for

tour nightly.
Mountain Brook Cottages

Rt. 2, Box 301, Sylva. NC phone 704/586-4329.

mountains of western Massachusetts has
openings for college students, teachers, and
coaches to serve as cabin. counselors and
program specialists in its summer program.

Activities include hiking , sailing,
swimming, canoeing, athletics, crafts, and
dramatics. Also openings for nurses (RN).

For application contact:

Lloyd Griffith,

State YMCA,
6 St. James Ave.
Boston, MA 02116

(617) 426-8802

On-campus interviews in February

Cats lost 65-60. The well-drilled

Frankhouser says, “We're still
very competitive and by no
means have we given up.”

Captain Kirby Owen is confi-
dent that a cure will be found in
the latter part of the season.
Practices have been tough for
the Cats but, they say they
have a positve outlook.

The team must look with
patience toward the remaining
eight games to improve their
team play and season record.
Sophomore Mitzi Short states,
‘A lot of teams are going to be
in trouble the next time a-
round.”’

“TLISTEN WHEN YOU CALL
PLANNED PARENTHOOD’

“Everyone's concerned about con-
fidentiahity when they get birth
control. At Planned Parenthood,
everything you say here stays here.

If you think you need protection, call

me before.”
Sandra Gaddy,
Counselor

Information on birth control, V.D., pre-
natal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION
OR APPOINTMENT
CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-6:00 P.M.
Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

COME TO

PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEFORE’
