he neu ron bomb

~

| what are the implications?

President sales? s decision to

- stockpile neutron bombs in the
United States leads to two important —

questions.
1) Will neutron boitibs deployed

"in Europe increase or decrease the —

likelihood of'a Russian invasion of
Wester Europe?

“-2) Will neutron bombs i iicieate

or decrease the likelihood of a nucle-.

ar holocaust? _
If ‘we agree that a dewired nucle-
ar threshold an logically make

Dan Turk BA

an invasion of Western Europe less

_ likely, we must ask a new question.

Will the people responsible for high-

. level decisions act responsibly or

will one thing lead to another until
Russia feels forced to invade and the
United States feels forced to use its

neutron bombs? A look at past

blunders of the Soviet Union in ;
Afghanistan and of the United States

in Vietnam reveal that the superpow-
ers. are capable of grave miscalcula-
tions. If we can make mistakes else-
where, will we in Europe? ©

The development of neutron
weapons suggests the possibility of a
limited nuclear war. The Russian re-
sponse to the United States’ neutron
bombs may be to build comparable
weapons. If the gap between less de-
structive nuclear weapons and the

~ more destructive weapons becomes ~
’ great enough; a limited nuclear war’

might be seen as a viable alternative

- to an all-out nuclear exchange. Even

if this is the case, is it desirable?

Right now the nations of West-
ern Eusfipe face a decision: either
sup eagan and eventually allow
the@eployment of neutron weapons
in Western Europe or refuse to allow
neutron bombs on their soil.

The results of either decision
could lead to a nuclear holocaust.

The aeutron bomb i isa astep toward :

OOKED AT. FROM ALMOST ANY ANGLE, THE
_ decision of ockpi Hesgao 0 administration to pro-

on sei off ies, ithe Ana and African con-
tinents, and on various surface and underwater ves-
Is roamin; ig one aa

ablishing the worst of the Cold War

: from The Economist |

phy of Europe very strongly favors the fsiniahietion

__ Of Soviet forces over our own, any decision to lower
the fragile threshold. separating conventional from .

nuclear force must appear to most” ‘Europeans to
“amount to a decision on our part that the defense of
Europe must inevitably involve its total nuclear de-

struction. The use of neutron bombs even though on-

_ Jy about one-quarter as destructive, neutron for neu- .

» tron, as
save Europe from the total destruction of a nuclear
ee war — most especially since there is no reason to as-
-- sume that the other side would go along with the hy--

s-"pocrisy that professes. to value the preservation. of

Property over hi nity. 2

sa “There are some who try to reconcile our European

are. allies to the lowering of the nuclear threshold with the:

CNS idea that the threat of nuclear escalation will serve as a Oy nee of the. ini cee:

as “conventional” nuclear weapons, could not

r weapon eal Suropean terr
is that the neutron | ‘bomb decisio ,

o snate defeat out of | the j jaws ‘of victory? Having Tev-
»cersed the: slowly-achieved momentum of the last 20

tions that. will be irresistible to. any. ofthe’ West Euro-

e pean governments. Thus, while European denuclear-

ization ‘is likely to be forced on the governments of
the NATO countries, it will not be the result of the de-
sired goal of a negotiated denuclearization fromthe
Urals to the Adantic, but rather the result of a popu-
larly. demanded West European denuclearization
westward from the Rhine. -

In this way, far from increasing the pressures on
the Russians to negotiate, the effect of the neutron

_, bomb decision i is likely to. make it easier for the So-
- viets to achieve the denuclearization of West Europe
- without having to pay any. ‘quid pro quo in terms of

their own deployments of nuclear forces capable ‘of
striking West Europe...

So do we find ourselves faced with the prospect

_that American hawks and hard-liners, in the guise of

€ dr fting, as sort out of control,
toward the ultimate holocaust of a nuclear war.

