Filling in for psychology

David Rowe and Alvin Smith replace on-leave profs

HIS TERM THE PSYCHOLOGY DEPARTMENT
has two “fill-in” professors — D‘ Daniel
Rowe and D* Alvin Smith.

D‘ Rowe has been teaching in D‘ Kello’s place
since spring term-and will be around for the rest of the
year. D’ Rowe graduated from Davidson in psychol-
ogy, then began his doctorate work at the University
of Tennessee. There he taught classes and published
experiments concerning “constrast effects in learn-
ing.” His wife'is currently doing graduate work in bi-
ology at UT, which accounts for his conspicuous
weekend absencés.

' D* Rowe likes reading science fiction (Heinlein
and Asimov are. his favorites), and he used to be a
Cub’s fan.

_ Alvin Smith
D‘ Alvin Smith is filling in for D' Brockway dur-
ing the fall term. D' Smith is a psychology professor
from S‘ Andrew’s College and has been instrumental

in S' Andrew’s program to improve the self-image of

wheelchair-bound ‘students. The program includes
teaching them how to cook, drive, swim, and gener-
ally become more independent. The project is

financed by a grant from the Department of Housing «

and Urban Development. Upon graduation from high
school in Union, Missouri-on 15'May 1944, D‘ Smith

was drafted into WWII. (Fortunately the war ended

before he finished training.)
He began studying electrical engineering at Kan-
sas State and the Universities of North Dakota and

Oregon before he decided that he had “had enough -

slide-rule pushing.” "He then entered the University of
Missouri intending to major in philosophy, but after
his first psychology course he changed his mind. He
received his: psychology B.A, in.1950.

Avoiding a near-certain call-up into the Korean

conflict, D* Smith; enrolled in Western DeEnIHY in ~

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

Pittsburg (now Pittsburg Seminary). He served ‘as
minister of Beth-el and Benton City Presbyterian
Churches in Missouri while attending graduate
school in psychology at the University of Missouri.
He began teaching at Hampden-Sydney College
in 1956 and moved to S' Andrews in 1965. D' Smith
has published works on mathematically gifted ado-

' lescents and the history of psychology.

By Brian Butler 84.

Visiting psychology
professor Al Smith

13
