Hockey Was There Last Year, B

by Jim Northrup '82 <i)

Davidson’s field hockey team lost to Clemson 9 -
0 on Tuesday and lost their first home game of the sea-
son to Appalachian State yesterday.

Clemson, a Division I.team (Davidson plays ir in
Division II) controlled the entire game, scoring three
goals in the first half and padding that lead with six
more in the second. “There’s not much to say,” offered

Coach Dee Mayes. “We're better than we showed, but:

we didn’t do anything well that game.”

_ Davidson played to a good-sized crowd Thurs-
day, but again didn’t give their fans much to cheer
about. Sophomore forward Courtney Hall secured first
possession for the Cats, which they kept for most of the
first seven minutes. After that a winded Davidson team
let up on the pressure long enough for the Apps to push
the ball into Davidson’s half of the field. Freshman Lou
Hamilton and sophomore Katie Dagefhart harried the
Mountaineer offense by breaking a series of drives for

the circle. Goalie Mitzi Short put on some pressure of |

her own several minutes later, causing the Appalachian
offense to lose control of the ball in front of the goal.

A sluggish Davidson team allowed Appalachian
to control the ball for the rest of the half. Hamilton, a
notable exception, proved that she could be there when
needed, coming through in the clutch several times.
The Cats’ defense held, but there were too many
pinches.

Appalachian’s possession time wore on the Cats,
but Short provided an impenetrable goal that prevented
any score by the visitors in the first half.

- Tough second half a
Davidson’ s defense, still tired, allowed a near —
goal within the first thirty seconds of second half play.
The ball bounced off the goal frame, but Appalachian

showing for another two’ minutes. Not long enough:

_ Appalachian, not to be denied, scored the first goal of
_ the game four minutes into the second half. After sev-

eral more minutes of strong possession by the visitors,
they scored:again.

Three minutes before the end of the game, Appal-
achian scored again. Davidson showed little life until
the last minute, but by then there wasn’t time to mount
any sort of realistic effort.

Davidson was outplayed for the second time in a
week. There were any number of strong individual ef-
forts, but the team couldn‘t agree on when to push. Ap-

‘ wi bok enocsig athelbars minute again later. Da: pilochiaw wore the Cats down by staying in motion,

vidson’s defense pulled isself together and made a solid ©

and when they drove they drove together. Individually
‘they were.a little faster than Davidson, but the Cats had :
the better players. More importantly, however, Appal-
achian was more aggressive as a team.

Slow start last year

Although last year’s team started off 0-3, this start
hardly bodes a berth in the national Division II tourna-
ment. In the week ahead the Cats travel to Catawba on
Tuesday, and then host arch-rival Pfeiffer a week from
today. A win at Catawba is a must, and a win over
Pfeiffer would be a real morale boost for a team that
needs it.

Katie Dagenhart hustles on defense against ASU .

~ IMAC: The Forks are r

Here is BB & SS’s initial rank-

ing of Davidson’s top seven flicker- .

ball teams:

Number 1 Hill’s Team After failing
Cohen’s Philosophy 112, Hill was

sent to Cambridge in order to pick up
two credits and qualify for the ’81
season. Hill has received special tu-
_ toring from Mary and Murray. In the
- past, Hill has been known as IMAC’s
quickest tailback, but he has been
slowed considerably by the surgical
addition of Sandy Fossett to his abdo-

men. The rest of the KA’s are a group .
of no-names, withthe exception of

Scott Smith. Dave Profitt, ‘a three-
year veteran, has been placed on
waivers in order to carry out his per-
sonal vendetta against virginity with
Loy “the hydra” Thornton. The
teams’s ‘knees should be in better
shape this year due to the departure of
mutual friend Shera Alford. ik
Number 2 Rastros This group of tal-
entéd juniors and. Yancey “Volun-
teer” Carter pose a threat to the senior

dominated IMAC league. The team
uses a twelve lace football that “any-
one can throw” and play all their

games in n Neyland Stadium near “the

strip.” Phil “nice guy” Gordon.an- .

chors a physical defense with John
“the atom” Cain. Offensively the bi-

zatre backfield of Buck “red scare”

Bradbury, Julius Cesar “the tan en-
treprenuer” Faulkner, and Mike “Ti-

ny Tim” Goode lead a front form

dominated by Dave “I’m fat but slow
and very tan” Carr.

Asked for a prediction. of this —
year’s season, Yancey Carter re-
sponded with a high five and a simple

“we’re all over it.”

‘Number 3 SAE The defending ©

champs are not only ugly but they are

~ short as well with the return of Chris
“T wish Georgia’s mascot was an alli-
gator” Daniels. David “always grind-
ing in my pants” Evansteinbergstein
~ anchors an offense with many plays
~ but no talent to execute them except —
“for Marv “I wish I was still on Hurtin ©
4 Certin” Webster. Ben “Dry: Heave” i
: Williams and Burt “I love to ‘sleep i in
~~” the woods” Taylor. are two “fookies
‘With a lot of promise,” js cea
“Number 4 Pikes Ad usual the! yathtu

warriors will dominate flickerball. ©

They achieved an early season victory
when they won. the Will Dunbar
award for being the “Most uncodper-
ative house on the Court.” Let by

-Chrisse Hynde in the backfield the
Pikes .are the darkhorse this season

(even without superstar John Eley).
Numiber 5 The Electric Forks This

“team has emerged from an ominous

cloud of smoke and a puddle of long
water to challenge for the 81 IMAC
crown. Offensively, the team is led
by Craig “I want to be skinny” Finger

and Hugh “I don’t even take my hat
: off for Ginny” Robertson. Defense
_will’be hurting with the loss of Tom

Barker but Phil “I’ve got bigger arms

_ than Yancey” Goodnow and Kelvin

“I'ma poet, songwriter and all around

ty entire team reads the Davidsonian.

are our picks for ‘this

> well give up now, you don’t have a

page 9/ DAVIDSONIAN/Friday 2 October 1981”

ced fifth?

THIS WEEK’S
MULTIPLE CHOICE QUIZ.

[1] What is the best cure for insomnia
at Davidson?

a) Counting sheep.

b) Reading the Davidsonian.

c) Drinking beer.

d) Talking to Anne Keith..

[2] Who is the fattest faculty member
at Davidson?
a) Randy Dulin.
b) Charlie Slagle.
©) Beachball
d) elgalS eilrahC.

[3] Who spends the most time in Win-
ston-Salem?

; 9 a) Lach Zem p.
we Hes gery = rigs b) Wake Forest students.
aeauea H c) Salem students.
Number 6 ‘SPE Jarvis Redwine i isa a) Pi The mayor of ‘Winston-Sa- :
“Number 7 Patricia Edmonson fe ® ppainett

Year's Season. Freshmen you might as “abou

