THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Why we print the Brick Bros.

I am always wary of censoring contributions, for a newspaper’s
role is to encourage the freest flow of information possible among
the members of the community it serves. I would much rather
publish something of dubious quality or poor taste than hinder
someone from expressing provocative or entertaining ideas.

In light of my presumption against censorship, I feel justified in
having run last week’s BB&DB column on early-morning social
life. I do, however, apologize for the two personal slurs that were
left in the column inadvertently —I did not recognize them to be
innuendos until after they were published. The Davidsonian’s
policy is not to print unwarranted personal attacks. I also feel
obligated to explain why BB&DB are given a weekly column and
the luxury of anonymity.

First, they write the most popular column in the paper. That
students are more interested in high-schoolish chitchat than
problems with faculty salaries or the endowment does not please
me. My primary goal for The Davidsonian is that it capably
analyze and influence College policy decisions, not joke about
Davidson stereotypes. Still, a newspaper must have its lighter
side, and supply_stoops to demand.

Second, BB&DB describe aspects of Davidson publicly with a
frankness normally possible only in private communication.
Confidence grown of anonymity allows them to joke and ridicule
without reservation—and thus write satirically accurate accounts
of Davidson social life.

Last week's column is a perfect example: it could have been a
composite of conversations heard in fraternity houses and Belk
Dorm. The sexual and social attitudes BB&DB described are
certainly offensive. But these attitudes are also, judging from
informal conversations, quite prevalent among Davidson males.
How much time passes after orientation before the typical
freshman neuter begins espousing the twin dogma (1) that coeds
are universally coquettish, overweight, and undersexed and (2)
that one should advertise the all-night visit of an HTH or Queenie
with a silk rep tie knotted around the doorknob?

Intentionally or not, BB&DB point out the foibles of students
here at (as they so aptly call it) Davidson Junior High. Insofar as
there is a demand for a column such as theirs, I am fully willing to
let BB&DB write it.

See you in study hall. Later. .
— John Siman

Liberal outlook means honesty

‘Coming out of the closet is risky. But it is also liberating.

Closets, dark and snug, are comfortable, but not exactly desirable

as living quarters.

Davidson has some closed closets that need to be opened. One is
the views and needs of black students. Another is sexuality.

The first black student came to Davidson in 1964. Yet this
Wednesday’s Black Perspectives forum was, as far as I know, the
first time blacks have gathered expressly for the purpose of
speaking to the college community about their goals and
frustrations. The honest and articulate discussion which took place
is encouraging. I hope there will be much more to come—not so
that “blackness” can become more pronounced but so that both
black and white students can see each others’ needs.

The lack of black faculty members is an important concern. But
there are others as well. How do blacks feel about Davidson’s
emphasis on its (white) tradition? Or about events such as the KA
fraternity’s Old South weekend? What do people really think about
interracial dating? I have asked that question and been amazed at
the unexamined prejudices that emerge.

The need for discussion about sexuality is just as pronounced.
Oh, we talk about sex—in sly, ogling tones, but rarely honestly or
seriously. And the stereotypical fraternity jokester is not the only
one at fault. Davidson Women seem to face issues of sexuality as
inadequately as men do.

What good would talking do? Many of us come from
conservative backgrounds and have never explored our judgements

and feelings about relationships and sexyality. This is the time of .

our lives when we need to. There are few channels for discussing
sexuality. No men attend the occasional discussions sponsored by
Rusk House and the Womens Center. The Davidson Christian
Fellowship which could perform a valuable service in fostering
discussion, has often operated on unquestioned assumptions about
what a Christian view of sexuality is.

“Liberation’’ to many is a dirty word. I am not speaking of it in a
gun-touting, radical, Gloria Steinem-spewing ‘‘Personhattan, New
York” sense, The College’s Statement of Purpose says, “Davidson
is a college of liberal arts: As such it emphasizes those studies,
disciplines and activities which liberate mankind physically,
mentally and spiritually.”

Closet living is not liberated living. .

— Elizabeth Kiss ~

‘

(EW:
0

. ie

_

AND THE NEXT SPEAKER
To AWOCAIE THE
TEACHING OF "SCIENTIFIC CRERTIONISN"
IN CUR SCHOOLS...

Sh

aa College Press Service
a)

The Campus Forum

Apology

To the Editors:

I am writing this letter in
order to apologize for the cruel
and inhumane remarks. which I
made last week in ‘“‘The Brick
Brothers and The Doughboys.”
I take full blame, credit or
responsibility (the choice is
yours) for that column.

Through the grapevine, I
have learned that a number ot
people, (mostly coeds) were
outraged and offended by the
article. I am sorry that it
happened. I don’t have a per-
sonal vendetta against David-
son girls, the KA’s, the Sig-Eps
or any other group that catches
a little flack now and then.
Contrary to the belief of a few
coeds, I don’t feel that all
Davidson girls are fat, ugly,
and due to grow up as OXY-10
poster queens.

Our column is not designed to
be taken seriously. It’s sup-

‘posed to be funny. If one takes

it as gospel it ceases to be
amusing. Please don’t read it as
you do the rest of The David-
sonian; for if you do, you are
defeating its purpose. Again, |
apologize to those who were
offended, but entreat you to
read the column in the right
frame of mind so that you can
enjoy it.

Chip Christian ’82

Sex Ed.

To the Editors:

In reference to the Red
Squares and Flaccid Boys’ arti-
cle last week on the subject of
informing Davidson men on
what to do in ‘‘romantic’’
situations, we suggest that
before considering the peripher-
al aspects of the issue, the
authors should concentrate on
the central topic—intercourse
and its ramifications. The au-
thors’ attitudes about the sub-
ject evokes the atmosphere of
their junior high school bath-
room rather than the caliber of
student usually associated with
Davidson. Boys, you need to
get in touch with the basics.

You attempt to mask your
ignorance by emphasizing the
tacky subtleties. We do hot
refer to all Davidson men but
only to the authors and the
group they epitomize. For that
sector of the college communi-
ty, we suggest the following:
The Joy of Sex, The Hite
Report, or anything by Masters

and Johnson.

With these sources of enlight-

ment, perhaps the frustrations
evident in this tasteless article
will be dissipated by improved
relations with the opposite sex.
The lock on a door or a bill at
Peregrine will rapidly dwindle
into insignificance.
In reference to the last two
slanders in your article, we hope
as you mature, your evaluation
of women will include more than
physical appearance, and your
evaluation of men more than the
manner in which they handle
abuse.

There would be no need for
this letter if your attempt at
humor and satire were success-
ful. We enjoy humorous and
satirical journalism as much as
anyone, and are sorry the
editors resorted to filling space
with this article.

Disappointed Davidsonians

Crip science

To the Editors:

Recently I have been puzzled
by the fact that while in Biology
and Chemistry there are courses
for non-majors, there is no such
thing for science majors in
non-courses. It seems to me
that such a situation is an

_injustice toward science ma-

jors. They are required to
handle material which those
who plan to pursue a career in
Law or business also study even
though they do not plan to go
into these career areas.

Are not science majors being
required to study material that
is trivial to their career inter-
ests? Of what benefit other than
the satisfaction of enlighten-
ment will the knowledge of
history or of Chaucer or Dickens
be to a scientist? If there is
added benefit, i.e. for the great
ability to function in society, is
this any less than what might
be learned in the regular basic
science course? Will not the
principles of hydrodanamics

and electricity be useful in a
world of pipes and wires? Will
not the knowledge of human
anatomy, cell structure, and
ecosystem interactions be bene-
ficeal for functioning in harmo-
ny with nature? I wonder if our
current environmental problems
are due to lack of understanding
in this area.

I conclude, therefore, that the
establishment of courses for
non-majors in one area of study
and not in another is unjustified
and possibly the existence of
any such courses is detrimental

to all ~~ Danny Armistead ‘82
Sad lizard

Editor’s note: This letter refers
to Jeff Herrin'’s Feb. 6 article,
“Feeling Depressed Winter
Term is the Only Socially
Acceptable Thing To Do,’’
which, among other things,
recommended attending SPE
parties to fight cheerfulness.
To the Editors:

Yeah, I’m a SPE. And usual-
ly I’m a pretty mellow guy. Of
course, I get psychotic some-
times (like, my reality testing
becomes nil). But that’s good
for you every now and then.

Right now, I’m on a really
good binge (40 days at press
time), so I’ve been too hungover
to generate any really good
outrage. Anyway, when I read
that part about SPE parties in
Herrin’s article, I cried real
tears ’cause I couldn’t muster
the indignation I was supposed
to. Actually, I was kinda grate-
ful, ‘cause till then, I didn’t
really have a good metaphysical
grasp of the term ‘lizard’ as a
concept as well as a label. I
mean, it’s not my fault he didn’t
take his bid—even we make
some mistakes.

But anyway, if he’s really all
that glum, I’ve got some Sine-
quan and a few assorted MAO
inhibitors that’ll snap him right
out of it. Always works for me.

Mark Glidwell Newman '8024

DONALD CALDWELL
News editor
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO
Features editors
JAMES BARRAT
Opinions éditor
JIM CROWE S
: . Sports editor
JEAN SORACCO
Back page editor

features editor ©

ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
Editors

MARGARET JACKSON, Production manager @
MARY WOMBLE BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETH
FINDLAY. JAMES MOORE, SCOTT-POWERS, KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER,
CARTER VEST, TIM WHALEN, Graphics assistants ©
DEMPSEY, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE WALTER, Production associates @
BILL APPLETON, ED DAUGHTERY, JIM RUMLEY, Staff artists @ SALLY NEAL,
* MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom technicians @ DAVID COTTON BANKS, Custodian

JEFF MANN
Managing editor
DAVID MCCURRY
Photography ed‘tor
PETER HAIRSTON
Business manager
WARREN LACKEY
Advertising manager
SCOT MYERS
Circulation manager

ANNE GOODWIN, Assistant

LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF

