.

10 am — 5 pM Weekdays.
Chambers Gallery. Photo Exhibition —
works by three photographers: Robert
Doisneau of France, Alen MacWeeny of
Ireland, and Manuel Alvarez Bravo of Mex-
ico explore the human condition and spirit
from differing points.of view. Free.

3 PM Thurman Room. Chem Building.
Chemistry Colloquim. D‘ George H. Atkin-
son, Dept. of Chemistry, Syracuse Univer-

Campus Cale

\

13

14 15]

sity will present a talk entitled “Lasers and |

Laser Chemistry.”

4:30 pM Commons Faculty / Student
Social. The first Faculty / Student Social of
winter term will have great conversation,
fun, fellowship, and refreshments guaran-
teed to warm your heart. Be there Aloha.

6 PM WDAV. Corrette: La Ballet des
Ages; Alkan: Le Festin d’Esope; Weber:
Jubel-Overture.

7 PM Charlotte Coliseum. First Union In-
vitational B’ball Tournament. Davidson vs.
Citadel at 7 pm; UNCC vs. Holy Cross at 9
pm. Tickets for entire tournament: Box
seats $15, Circle $12, Mezannine $9, Gen.
Admission $6.

7:30 pM Charlotte Public Library. Main

branch, 310 N. Tryon St. The “2nd Friday .

Flicks” presents “Ziegfield Girl” featuring
Judy Garland and James Stewart.

8 PM WDAV. The Philadelphia Orches-
tra. Two works by Franck plus Dvorak’s Vi-
olin Concerto in A minor

8 PM Love Auditorium Pop Film “Gods-
pell.” Come get love, get happy, and get
religion. Admission $1.50 rated PG.

10 pm wWDAV. Flipsides. |
10 & 11:30 pm 900 Room. “Silent

Partner.” Appearing for the third time, the
duo will play their own unique blend of
original. rock and rhythm and blues. Ad-
mission is free, an

8 2M Gallery. GRE’s.

6 PM WDAV. Brahms: Four Hungarian:

Dances for Orchestra; Bach / Brahms / Ric-
ci: Presto.

7 PM WDAV. Medtner: Piano Quintet.

8&11 PM Love Auditorium. Pop Film:
“Dawn of the Dead.” George Romero's
horror film satire of consumer society.

10 & 11:30 pm 300 Room. “Silent

Partner.” See Friday: |

10 pm Jazz with Bil Bambach. Tonight's
program features music by Thad Jones —
1955-1963 recordings by the gifted mod-
ern trumpeter. Among the selections to be
heard: “What is this Thing Called Love,”
featuring Jones with Charles Mingus, “I
Got it Thad,” with Sonny Rollins, “Evi-
dence” with Thelonious Monk, and Thad
Jones’ own group playing “The Blue
Room.”

12 midnight woav. Jazz Sides.

6 pM WDAV. Lalo: Symphonie Espag- 12 midnight woav. Jazz Sides.

nole; Mussorgsky: Intermezzo in modo
classico in B minor.

DC Gift Fund for use by the S‘ Croix Hospi-
tal in Haiti. .

7:30 pM Morrison Room. DCF.

8 pM Carolina Arts. A concert by the
Rowe String Quartet, recorded in May of
this year in NCNB Performance Place at
Spirit Square in Charlotte. The program in-
cluses Mozart's Quartet in D major, K. 575,
the String Quartet in B minor, Op. 11 by Sa-
muel Barber (containing the famous Ada-
gio for Strings), and Franz Schubert's
String Quartet in D minor, D. 810, other-
wise known as “Death and the Maiden.”

10 PM 900 Room. Bridge Night.

10 PM Sunday Sessions with Bill Bam-
back. Tonight’s program looks at music.
from films — individual songs and ex-
cerpts. These include “Gigot” by Jackie
Gleason, “America, America” by Manos
Hadjidakis, “The Sandpiper” by Johnny
Mandel, “Windjammer” by Morton Gould
and others.

6:30 pm Lingle Chapel. Catholic Mass. |... Monday the 14° ° |

7 PM WDAV. Davidson College Christ-
mas Vespers Concert. —

7:15 pm DCPC Christmas Vespers Ser-
vice. This year’s service will include partici-
pation by: the College’s Male Chorus,

~Women’s Chorus, and Concert Choir, ‘all

directed by W. Viadimir Morosan; the
Brass Ensemble, directed by William Law-
ing; and the Flute Ensemble, directed by
Shirley Jackson..Organists will be Wilmir
Hayden Welsh and Jane Redd. Our cha-

plain Charles A. Summers. will preside at.

the service. Offerings will be given to the

11 am DCPC. The Chancel Choir of
DCPC will present Benjamin Britten’s “A
Ceremony of Carols” during the regular
worship service; Soloists in the work, all
sorpranos, will be Ellen Roland, Marsha -
Summers, Elizabeth’ Davis, and Nancy
Dishman. The harp accompaniment will by
provided by harpist Tanya Greenfield from

the N.C. School of the Arts in Winston-Sa-

lem. “A Ceremony of Carols” is a setting
by Britten of a number of Middle English
poems and fragments. It was composed in
