Fire safety

College seeks to improve system ~~ _ ae

by Pete Gulyn ‘84

. The college is working to improve fire safety in
campus buildings. —

Almost ‘one’ year ago, Physical Plant Director
Grover Meetze contracted M’. Tommy Honeycutt, a
veteran fireman of the Charlotte Fire Department who
lives in Davidson, to.conduct quarterly fire. inspec-
tions ‘of College buildings and to suggest. improve-
ments. The College is in the process of updating.
equipment and. ridding the campus of the fire hazards
M' Honeycutt has discovered.

__ _M Honeycutt claimed that although the College
has been slow to take action on some problems, it is
now correcting many of them. He said the College
began making the corrections when.he started send-
ing summaries of his findings along with his reports
to M' Meetze. ©

For example, the Carolina Inn finally received
two weeks ago the fire extinguishers it had requested
years ago. The computer center and Chambers were
also without extinguishers until two weeks ago.

This year, the College has appropriated money
to raise the water pressure in the campus fire hy-
drants. It must sill find a contractor to do the job.

Problems with fire extinguishers

According to Security Chief Hughes, the Col-
lege’s public safety director, the College has en-
closed most of the fire extinguishers on Campus in
glass encasements to keep students from prankishly
discharging the extinguishers. Students discharged
over 100 extinguishers last year, leaving parts of
buildings without protection. It cost the college ap-
proximately ten dollars apiece to refill them.

Housing Director Bill Bolding reports to Chief
Hughes on the status of fire safety equipment in the
dormitories every month. So far this year, there has
been no problem with the extinguishers protected in
glass encasements, although one of the glass boxes
was accidentally broken.

The most trouble for the College comes from
student misuse of firé extinguishers and alarms, ac-
cording to Maintenance Engineer Phillip Cashion,
and the College has taken steps to remedy the prob-
, lem. So many extinguishers were set off in Chambers
” that it became imperative that they be enclosed.

Chief Hughes said that the Computer Room will
also get a special halogen fire extinguishers, superior
to the conventional type because it leaves no residue
to damage the computer.

Chief Hughes says that Davidson college has
bought a total of seventy-five new fire extinguishers.
Thirteen of these will be in the Commons, four in
each new dorm, eleven in Chambers, and at least
three dry-powder extinguishers will replace the water
extinguishers in Richardson dorm. The recom-
mended number of fire extinguishers is one for every
seventy-five feet per floor.

Every floor of every building will have at least
one fire extinguisher, while Chambers and the Li-
brary will be equipped with at least two for each floor.

The basement of every Patterson Court eating
house will have a.fire extinguisher.

Smoke Detectors now adorn the ceiling of the
top floor ef every dormitory.

M’ Cashion plans to have heat detectors installed
in each building by the end-of the school year. He
says that M‘ Bolding has just recently taught the resi-

* photo by Elizabeth Elkin ’85

dent advisors how to disarm the fire bells in case of ;

false alarms.
M’ Cashion is sitisfied with the highly sophisti-

cated alarms in the new:dorms, called. the Simplex -
alarm system, although. there have been some prob: -

lems with the complex equipment. ‘—
He says that last. week resident advisor John

Odell called him at home around 9:30 AM to tell him _
that the “trouble bell” (which indicates a problem i in.

the system) was ringing in Knox Dorm. The alarm in
Knox has been out of operation since then.

Cashion noted that the Simplex is the newest
alarm on. the market, and “like any very new equip-
ment, it still has some bugs that have to: be worked
out.”

The manufacturer sent a repairman to work on
the alarm last week. The Simplex is covered by a war-
ranty. Cashion said it will be repaired soon, but does
not know how soon. |

To remedy the hazard of only one exit in the cen-
ter section of Duke Dormitory, the college made a

door giving access to aside wing of the building on

the second floor, and another door is planned for the
third floor.

Remaining Hazards

Other hazards remain. M‘ Honeycutt sees the
warehouse and the cabinet shop as the worst fire ha-
zard on campus, but sees no immediate remedy for
their danger. Large red coded signs will be displayed
to warn firemen of the twenty gallons of gasoline
stored near the cabinet shop and the chlorine stored at
the gym.

Chief Hughes says that a persistent problem
which could be solved is students’ cluttering the hall-
ways with bicycles and other large items and using
the boiler rooms of Patterson Court houses for stor-
age.

Although he conducts fire inspections for the
Charlotte Fire Department, M‘ Honeycutt said that he
is“. . . not a fire inspector, as such.” He was hired by
the College to make periodic inspections, and has on-
ly an advisory rdle.

His inspections last about seven days. In his in-
spection, M' Honeycutt examines each. building on
campus with a checklist written by Chief Hughes.
The fire extinguishers as well as the fire alarms must
be functional and easily accessible, storage areas neat
and orderly, smoke detectors operational, stairwells
and hallways clear of obstructions, stairwell doors ~
closed, wiring and circuit breakers safe, and flamma-
ble liquids safely i in storage. Fire exit signs should be
legible and lighted.

The College is insured by the Insurance Com-
pany of North America, whose engineers examine

-Davidson’s buildings periodically, according to Bus-

iness Manager Bob Currie. The insurance policy | is
renewed every three years..

- MT" Honeycutt said that the inspector for an insu-
rance company would pay very close attention to the
electrical wiring of a building to judge its fire risk.

. Wiring’on elevators and air conditioners are especial-

~ ly important.

ee 92-4841.
ah 892-8631

_ Serving Bevideon students omen n.
for: over 30 years. -

Box 728 patie o
. 28036.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1961
