DAVIDSONIAI

_ The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

~ Making the.
~ Honor System
: work
as it should

There are few things as unpleasant as catching someone who has violat-
ed the Honor Code. Twice last summer I was in this situation. In a routine
audit I discovered that two students, acting separately, had been stealing
money from a student organization. When the evidence I accumulatd
against them became conclusive,.I was struck with dull disbelief. I was .
neither angry nor excited but felt a vague nausea. I realized that I was sup-
posed to report the violations and did so mechanically.

I want to recount what happened after I turned one of these students in.
His case was a complicated one; therefore, | am not describing it as a repre-
sentative'case. Instead, since it was so difficult to settle, I want to offer it as
a case that tested the Honor System and showed the System’s weaknesses.

The student in question stole money totalling over $2200 on ten occa-
sions. I learned about the thefts a few at at time, over the course of the entire
summer. I first realized the student had been stealing atthe start of June,
just two weeks after he had graduated. I told the Dean of Students, who rep-
lied that since the student had graduated, the Dean did not care to pursue the
case. It was left to me to recover the money and continue the audit. Note
that at this time neither he nor I knew of the magnitude of the student’s
theft. -

Since I was spending most of my summer in Davidson, I had ample
time to conduct an audit. I needed it. The student had covered his tracks so
well that it took a friend and me three months of laborious on-and-off work

to fully piece together his wrongdoing.

Every few weeks during the summer I would detect a few more of the
student’s thefts. Each of these times I would attempt to call him, but he was
travelling abroad and could not be contacted. Never did’ any College of-
ficial attempt to call him.

Because the shocking extent of the student’s crime was becoming more
and more apparent, I began reporting the results of my audit to the College.
Business Manager, M‘ Currie. He and the College Comptroller, M‘ David-
son, agreed that I should continue my investigation and, when the student
returned to the United States, arrange a meeting at which we would reach a
financial settlement with him.

At the end of July the student returned. I was nervous, for I was con-
fronting someone I hardly knew. One cannot make a long distance call and
blurt out something like, “Hello. Remember me? I think you're a thief.”
Our conversation lasted over an hour. He denied his wrongdoing with bi-
zarre, hasty alibis and asserted that I had a vendetta against him. Three days
later I spoke to him again and he confessed — almost. I told him that the
audit was not yet complete: I had not checked records before May 1980. He
assured me he ha been a “good boy” during that time, that there was no need
for me to investigate any further. It turned out that he was lying — lying
about $300 stolen cash. Thus began my uncomfortable personal dealings
with the student.

As I learried more about him, I realized he was not some wretch forced
into stealing by unbearable financial pressures or mafia extortion, but a
very wealthy, very bright, very dapper scion of 2 prominent family who
stole money to maintain an extravagant lifestyle. He took weekend outings
on Eastern Airlines, and enjoyed chic chemical amusements. He had once
before been tumed in for stealing, but nothing had come of it. He was a be-

18 DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 4 December 1981 ne a:
