In Veritate Magna Vis
(WRITER‘S NOTE: As soon as the news of the attempted
assasination of Ronald Reagan broke last week, the Doughboys
were sent to Butner, North Carolina to undertake an extensive
examination of John Warrock Hinckley, Jr. The following are
excerpts from their forthcoming
book, John W. Hinck The

The Brick Bros. Ze cespe.
& ...Hinckley was born in May
1957 to parents of Vietnamese
origin. They had migrated to
The Doughboys Juarez, Mexico just before their
son’s birth. From Juarez they
crossed the Rio Grande into the U.S. in the PiKA bathtub. Mr.
Hinckley got a job as a travelling DJ for KA discos and Mrs.
Hinckley became a regular on ‘‘Bowling for Dollars.”” Young
Hinckley led a deprived childhood and had to play in the mud

with dead dogs.

...The family moved to the lovely state of South Dakota. It
was there that John met his mentor, Sirhan Sirhan, who taught
him about the birds, the bees, and Jodie Foster. He became
president of the local chapter of the ACLU and was active in the
Spanish Club.

At 21, a disillusioned Hinckley left home and the ACLU
exclaiming, ‘‘There must be something more to life than
Weinsteinbergs and Gonzaleses.”” He walked to Charlotte,
North Carolina where he got a job as a banquet worker at the
Sheraton Hotel. He applied for admission to and was accepted
at Davidson College as a Stuart Scholar even though he had a
limited education. Commented selection committee member
Cora Nelson, ‘‘Mr. Hinckley was an excellent wucker.’’

Hinckley, or Jack as his friend John Krotchko called him,
suffered his first major dilemna during fraternity rush. He could
not decide whether to be a KA or a SPE. (What difference would
it have made?) After consultation with his faculty advisor,
Gibby, Jack joined SPE. As a Sig Ep Hinckley was in charge of
pledge education, rush, and assassinating visiting VIP’s.

...While at Davidson, Hinckley took a liking to the Geach and
would sit for hours in his lap while D.C.’s version of Methusaleh
expoused on the virtues of shoulder launched surface to air
missles, the negation of the negation and the values of a liberal
arts education. With such a background how did he go wrong?

...In his junior year Jack went JYA-Laos and studied in
Phnom Phem. While there he ate massive quantities of rice and
starred in a College Bowl team composed of Chiang-Kai Shek,
Ho-Chi Minh and Tattoo.

...In his senior year he returned as a psychology major and
took Psy. 101 from Ruth Ault. As part of optional assignment
#5, instead of keeping an eating diary or walking around with a
blindfold, Hinckley decided to. perform a study of peoples’
reaction to gunfire. The rest is history.

Since the Brickbrothers will be departing for the triple
conjunction in a few weeks,the Doughboys are searching for
replacements. Call Toll Free 1-800-892-FATS if interested, or
write DOUGHBOYS c/o PHILOSOPHY 112, STATE U. N.C.

See Dyhighiboive pe porters Evel Kneivel stunts before the Spring |
Frolics concert. -

Norton —A barber for all seasons

By AURIE HALL
Staff Writer
Getting a haircut at Norton’s Barber Shop
was an idea I had been toying with for a long
time—years, in fact. A trip to Norton’s is as
integral a part of the Davidson experience as Big
Oranges at M&M or climbing the water tower.
There are other experiences that I would add,

_such as swimming behind General Time, a game

of pool at the Par 3 and banana chocolate shake
(or anything for that matter) at the B&B, that
should be included in a list of Davidson rituals,
but a haircut at Norton’s is an essential.

Norton’s is even responsible for a contribution
to the Davidson campus vocabulary —‘‘to be
Nortonized’’ is a phrase that refers to someone
who has newly, closely clipped hair. Perhaps it is
this last bit of information that explains why I
stayed away from Norton’s for so long. But as
graduation loomed increasingly nearer, I decided
to take the plunge. I determined that this would
be an opportune time to visit Norton’s for several
reasons. One was that my hair has been in a
particularly nondescript state for several months,
which meant that it would be difficult to ruin (and
I doubted that anyone would notice if it was).
Also, I would still have time to grow it out before
graduation.

So, with Sally Neal gleefully in tow, I entered
the shop and took a seat in the Barber’s chair.
Ever cautious, I asked for a trim. Just on the
back. I soon discovered that all of my fears were
completely unfounded. In fact, Mr. Kenneth
Norton cut my hair just as I requested, with
meticulous attention to detail and an interesting
conversation thrown in, all for only $3.75. What a
bargain.

While in the shop, I learned that Mr. Norton's
father and uncle had opened the barbershop in
1912 in what is now the ceramic shop. They
moved to their present location on Main Street in
1927. The names on the window originally read
Hood Norton and Son, but Kenneth Norton (the
son in Hood Norton and Son) took over the
proprietorship of the shop in 1969 when his father
died. The sign now reads just ‘‘Norton.”’

Mr. Norton has been cutting hair in that shop
since 1942, when he received his license from
barber school at the age of 15. Except for two
years of service in the Korean War, Mr. Norton
has worked at his shop for the past thirty-six
years. Before he was a barber, Mr. Norton helped
his father as a shoe shine boy, and the chair and
polishes are still in the back corner of the shop.
Big weekends on the Davidson campus meant 200
or 300 pairs of shoes that needed to be ‘shined.

Mr. Norton still has his original manual
clippers, which he uses whenever the lights go
out. Shaves are still expected with an open razor,
although he uses reusable blades instead of

sharpening the razors on a leather strap.

‘Since 1942, Mr. Norton has seen an amazing
variety of hair styles come and go. The fad in the
1940’s was the flat top, in the 50’s the Ivy
League, which Mr. Norton says is much like the
style today. Hair began to be worn longer in the
late 50’s and early 60’s, first with the slicked
down ducktails and then with the Beatles and
European influence. Each year, Mr. Norton says,
hair has been worn in an increasingly natural
style. When he began his career, haircuts were 25
cents apiece. Now the going rate is $3.50 to $3.75.
I was fascinated to discover that you can alsc
receive a facial mud pack for $2.25—which
sounds intriguing. Mr. Nerton remembers at
least three other barbershops in Davidson, but
his is the only one that remains.

I asked Mr. Norton if he had many women
customers. He said that 30 years ago, at least
twenty percent of his customers were women, and
it was even higher than that in World War II.

Actually, I had been unaware that Mr. Norton
cut women’s hair until one Saturday late in my
sophomore year. I was strolling down Main
Street when I spied Dr. David ‘‘Dandy”’ Shi
getting his hair buzzed for the Army Reserves.
Fascinated, I pulled a chair on the sidewalk tc
watch and cheer him on. Dr. Shi suggested that |
join him and that’s when Mr. Norton told me that
he cut women’s hair too. Since the day ]
discovered I was free to participate in this special
Davidson tradition, I knew I could not rest easily
until I had. Like most activities of this nature, it
turned out to be a delightful adventure. Now |
understand why Norton’s has been in Davidson
since 1912.

Norton shears a beaming Aurie.

ups

Spinach and mushroom salads for $.80
also, pita bread sandwiches

128 Main St. 892-7251

Starting pay $7.84/hour

Top pay $10.46/hour
Mon.-Fri. 15 hours per week
Excellent benefits

1-85 & N. Graham St.

Looking for a good part-time job?
United Parcel Service -

Openings for

hard workers.

Apply in person at UPS bldg.

Monday April 13, 1981 1-5 pm
Equal opportunity — M/F

.People are often nervous when
they come to Planned Parenthood.
They shouldn't be. We're just regular
people, and we try to make
everyone feel. comfortable. We want
you to come.back and bring your
friends.”

_ Connie Brown,
Receptionist

low Cost-and Confidential
Birth Control
Pragnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion, Services

FOR INFORMATION
OR APPOINTMENT
CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDox oll
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

