by. man. It is the only system that fully protects

C apitalismiis the best social ivedoni esas devised: a

individual rights, i.¢., the rights to life, liber--
ty, and the pursuit of happiness: In its unadulterated

form, capitalism requires the separation of the state and
the economy..It must be distinguished from other sys-
tems which.call for government control: socialism and
fascism. To the extent that these systems allow govern-
ment intervention, they restrict individual liberty. ::
Capitalism recognizes the right of the individual to
own property; a right essential for the: ‘pursuit‘of mate-
rial-and: spiritual values, i.e., for the pursuit of happi-
ness..Within a society, these rights’ may be -violated.on-
ly ‘by ‘the ‘initiation of force. The government: serves. :

merely to enforce objective. laws which protect individ-.

uals from force initiated:by others. Within a country,

the government maintains a: police force anid-a judicial *"~

system; internationally, it organizes a defense against

foreign aggression. Capitalism, therefore, limits: the:
sphere of government authority. Contest this with the *

Statist systems: socialism and. fasciam: -
- Let me ‘define my. terms; re

. Fascism — a governmental system. with: -

"strong centralized power, permitting no oppo-;
' sition or criticism, controlling-all’ ‘affairs of the “
nation (industrial, commercial, etc.).’.

Statism — the principle or policy of concen- _
‘trating extensive economic, political, and re-
lated controls in the state at the Cost of individ-
ual liberty.

. Socialism — a theory: or - system of social or-
ganization which advocated the vesting of the
ownership and-contro! of the means of prod-
uction, capital, land, etc., in the community '

-asa whole. :;

Notice that socialism -and fascism are variants of
statism, i.e., they both call for government controls at
the expense of individual liberty.

The distinguishing issue is the treatment of proper-
ty rights. Both statist systems deny these rights, soci-
alsm—explicitly and fascism—implicity. Observe that
fascism does not-eplicitly forbid private ownership of

trol is a contradiction in terms. If | “own” an apple, but

~ the government tells me that I must allow another indi-
— vidual to eat it, then I donot own the apple.

>. Unfortunately; today’s intellectuals (e.g. , college
professors and journalists) do not present the choice
between capitalism and statism, freedom and dictator-
ship, or individualism and collectivism. Instead they.
offer two versions of a mixed economy, i.e., a com-
promise between freedom and controls. Superficially,

they seem to advocate opposing systems, but.a closer ..

examination will reveal the horrifying similarities.

The conservative intellectuals advocate state-sup-.

ported business. This involves granting privileges and
subsidies to some “special” or “vital” business con-

_cerns (usually powerful corporations) at the expense of

other business interests. By awarding public works or
defense. contracts, dictating. regulations, providing
loans, subsidizing industries, and employing other
such measures, the governmen t has a tremendous in-
fluence on which businesses will succeed or fail. This
approach represents an inclination toward the fascist
version of statism.

The liberal intellectuals preach some version of the
welfare state which favors the unproductive at the ex-

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981

__ grams promote the *
we property;,: -but it-does deny the. right. of the individual to .
control of dispose of his p property: Té.own without con-

ne indeed!

en ee

achere is is It Sold;

—

SAWN AQAA

“pense of the productive. These liberals launch noble

crusades to provide food, housing, jobs, and medical
care ‘for the “needy.” However these “do-gooders” ig-
nore the rights of the individuals. who oppose but must
pay for such programs. Obviously, this approach rep-

.. fesents. a move, towards the socialistic. variant of sta-

tism.

Both groups of intellectuals claim that their pro-
‘common good,” but they disagree
on the means to: achieve, this end. The consevatives

argue that the government must intervene, to stimulate

those productive’ interests that are essential for the
well-being of society. The liberals profess to defend

the interests of the oppressed. Both groups accept that _
- government intervention in economic affairs is neces .

sary, Futhermore, they see no problem with backing
their decrees with the legalized force of the govern-

_ ment. The rights of the individual are sacrificed for the

“benefit” of society.
__. Captialism, the only systyem which does not re-
quire sacrificial victims, is obscured by the false alter-

“Native presented by the intellectuals. Under capitalism,

men coéperate and trade by voluntary consent to the

-mutual benefit of all parties involved. (Notice that man

is viewed as an end in himself, not as the means to the
end of others.) Force, initiated either by the govern-
ment or by individuals, is forbidden. In economic
trafisactions, the final arbiter is the rational judgement
of each individual, not the point of a gun.

Nineteenth century America represents the closest
manking has ever come to achieving a capitalistic sys-
tem. But even then, the statist element of government
intervention to aid business was present. This does not
have to be. True Laissez-faire capitalism can be real-
ized, but men must choose to discover it.
