Vlad Moros

The Matic Depertment has a new choral ditsotor
this year, M" W. Vladimir Morosan: Arriving at Da-
vidson late last spring, M"
tion of the choral program after the death ofthe
former director, Donald Plott, almost a year ago;

Born in Munich, Germany, M’ Morosan received -

his college education in the United States. He began
as a chemistry major at Occidental College, and be-
came involved in the music program there as a secon-
dary interest. Participation in the chorus led M’ Mor-

osan to change his major to music. From Occidental .
he went on to earn his Masters in music in choral con-

ducting from the University of Illinois in 1976. He is
presently bison, damsie ohne arama eae
Music...

M" Morosan is no sttanger to the small college at

mosphere, ‘Referring to Occidental as the “Davidson :

of the West,” nee a Seer eres ie

Morosari took over direc-:

} in . | : ra | ; :

Davidson’ s new choral director

= ee

awk mater and Privideosd! "The colleges have similar» |
academic standards, and'M" Morosan is impressed _

with the he has seen here. “Davidson has a lot

of things going for it — ¥’ ve noticed a lot of on the 4

- Davidson is fortunate in that respect.”

This sort of ‘motivation is “everything one would ex-..

pect,” he said. Some students are so multi-talented

that they cannot focus on one particular interest, but _
chorus members still: manage too make the large time ;
: commitment pep ese expects

M’ Morosan sees music as a limited, difficult pro-
fession, but believes it to'be an interesting, worth-

- while experience. Music, ihe says, is an opportunity

a ners ee Hee Sit mesh that i eri, ;
Reaiptee, crhcsemme

By Mark W. Batten '85

Mixed Chorus

Program change requires Male Chorus and
Women’s Chorus members to sing together 7

A. tein doce wie oiled’ divin frocn on hight to

sing in the Male Chorus,or the Women’s Chorus this
year one must sing in the mixed ensemble also. To
many, this struck a: discordant note.

The music department, in order to build a pro-

gram more in keeping with Davidson’ s.co-ed charac-.

ter, is shifting its focus from’ the traditional Male
‘Chorus and Women’s Chorus to a new mixed group.
The Male Chorus and the and Women’s Chorus will
still practice separately, in addition to their weekly
rehearsals a8 a mixed group. In other words, it will be
“one group with two vital components.”
Women’s Chorus president, Karen Hopper, says
chorus memibers were “hesitant” about the change.
“We do not feel that our input was asked for. It was a

departmental decision.” Shie added that “the men per- -
‘haps had more reservations because the Male Chorus -
has been established for so long.” (The Women’s

Chorus was formed in the spring of 1976 while the
Male Chorus has been performing for over seventy-
five years.)

When rumor of the chang ciectiatedlan axing,
many became quite concerned — some became : angry

— and there was talk of boycotting this fall’s audi- ;
tions. They did not like the idea of “losing” the Male
Chorus and felt that this change, coming 80-soon after

the death of their former director M" Donald Plott,

was “like a stab in the back,” Chorus Vice President _
. Walt Dean said. “’When M' Plott was ‘here he de-
_ finitely dominated the music scene. When he died.

many people felt the took advantage of
—
19.

From this initial: response, Mate Chorus President
Bryan Duke was prepared to face a lot of resentment
and anger from chorus members this fall. He found,
however, that many of the adamant feelings had dis-
appeared during the summer “probably because the

-old guard — the seniors who knew Don Plott best and

who had the longest ties to the group — had graduat-
ed.” Walt Dean expressed the feeling of most return-
ing members when he said, “I don’t like the change,
but it doesn’ t bother me enough not to sing. es

Now there seems to bea wait-aiid-see attitude
about the whole situation; no one is extremely posi-
tive, but no one isextemely-negative either. Both

"groups are simply trying’ to hold their own. As one

member said, “We have. watched the emphasis go
from the Male Chorus to the Women’s Chorus and
now to the Mixed Chorus and many are fearful that
without the focus that the Male Chorus will desinti-
grate. It’s kind of hard to get out of the limelight.”

‘Karen added, “It put Bryan: and. myself. [as Presi-

dents) in a difficult position: We both felt that we

were in danger of losing something that we had really —
worked for. We have to be postive’ about the change, .
but at the same time we can’t look as though we don’t

Nunca st ire Shi siNeiaumencH eared *
Viadimir Morosan, ‘de new director:

faced with: working under an unpopular program

With the change in program camie a new dices cs
Music Instructor Viadimir Morosan. ‘New jobs as a. ‘
‘rule are challenging, and his is no exception: he is

change.and inevitable ‘comparisons to the highly re-.
spected and beloved former directors M" Plott and
Linda Warren. Nevertheless Chorus members realize
that Morosan is hot responsible for the. change, but
that he is simply filling the ponitioe Creme oy the
change.

Karen desciibes' Motiead thot of'a “techini
cian” than the previous directors: “The rehearsals are _
more formal and structuralized than what we are used
to. It’s very intense, every minute is used for a spec-
ific purpose.”

Chorus members are impressed by his profession-
al knowledge and talent and by the enthusiam and in-
terest he has shown in the program so far. Karen said,
“He has really worked, he has made a great' effort to
work with the officers and we have come to a lot of
agreements. He wants our participation.”

M’ Morosan is excited about Davidson’s music
program and about the possibilties available for the
Mixed Chorus. He expects the new group to “give us
a variety and flexibility in programming” and to pro-
vide something for évery taste — everything from
Renaissance to Duke Ellington.” He is working hard
to achieve that “delicate balance between artistic per-
fection and entertainment,” and: by all indications is

. succeeding. Hopper says, “I think the community.

will be surprised and pleased. with the quality of our
concerts.”

Under the new plan, the Male Chorus, the Wom-
en’s Chorus, and the Mixed Chorus will each perform -
one third of the concert program. This does not mean,
however, that each group will not be able to perform
individually if the opportunity ‘arises: M‘ Morosan
says the Male Chorus and the Women’ s Chorus will. .

- continue to be supported, “as long as both can stand
“on their own.” He expects the demand for the con-

certs.to continue to be great and adds, “At a time

when budgets usually end up cutting the arts, it is.
eS een eng commitment to music

at Davidson.”

By Tracy Thompson "83

" RAVANGANIAN / Friday 6 November 1981. -
