ter all year.” ’
Said each Ed Farell, “4 have mixed reactions

about the season. All ofus— the coaching staff and the

team — were not satisfied with the final record; it was

disappointing in that regard. We lost games we should :

have won, particularly the New-berry game. The slow
start really hurt us. When we were 1-3, we could very
easily have been 3-1 if we had played well.

“What really impressed me about this team,
though, was its unselfishness and lack of any morale or
discipline’ problem. For example, Brian Whitmire,

with his being a senior, could have given up when re-

placed as si sabi quarterback. Ray Sinclair when

h 1981, but look forward to 82

ee lacked saiticaeek blocking agate: have done: the
_, Same, But both never cpniplatane and sally came
through.”:

After the: sputtering first foc games in which Da-

sa vidson’s only win was a 2/-20 thriller over Wofford,
the ’Cats burst out and trounced heavily favored Bos-
- ton University 44-14.

_ “That. was. indeed the turning point,” said Farell.
“From then on, the team improved with each game,
and though we never really were satisfied, we did

/, evolve toa high level of respectability.”
. |. The season’s second half also produced impressive —
wins.over Hampden — Sidney and Catawba. Anembar-

rassing 69--7 loss to Lehigh: appeared to indicate a
Wildcat return to its earlier tactics, but Farell said, “Le-

high was simply a great team which played over its

head.”
Hampden — Sidney proved, to be: the patsies Home-
coming: opponents ,aré supposed. to.-be. as Davidson

. rolléd 42-14,:'The "Cats ended the: year with a noble
52-29 win over highly regarded Catawba. Senior full-

back Ray Sinclair produced a stellar performance,
rushing for a record setting 260 yards, which gave him
1,001 yards for the season. The feat culminated a spec-

tacular four year career for the professional prospect as ~

he rushed for a brow—raising 3,085 yards.
“Ray is simply a great back,” said Farell, “He’s orfe

of those players who will go right. down to the wire
when the draft comes. And if he doesn’ SEL CNEN, his
chances as a free agent are excellent.” -

The Catawba win also marked the exit of cach con-
tributors as senior QB: Brian Whitmire, whose spitall-
ing passes found the receiver with pinpoint accuracy,

- and senior: linebacker James M‘Clain, a fighting bull

who bolted through blockers to make teenies with re-
markable consistency.

“Lodkieg into his crystal ball, Coach Farell fore-
shadows little change in football tactics: “Our competi-

~ tiveness will generally be the same. What people have

to realize i is. that because of such high academic stan-
dards, approximately only 10 percent of high school
athletes are recruitable at Davidson: To get that com-
petitive edge, we just have to: recruit a little harder,
practice a little harder, and win the games we’re sup-
posed to win. In the history. of Davidson football —
since. 1896 — the team has never won more than seven
games. And I see that as a very touchable goal.”

With. much of the team returning, including. the
whole defensive and offensive lines, a'solid: corps of
wide receivers, and an explosive backfield, that goal
could be reached as soon:as next year.

_ by Scott Huie. "85

$12,000 for college.

you can. Part-time for your, country.

“sie don't

job in ‘town.
‘Intereste

_Tepresentative! today.

iis diag] sgl My Ail MPL ae atime

Want a part-time job that dcein t harey abr ie gids! Or calriptis liferGivey your local Army Kénkeve
unit a’ weekend a month and a ow of: ‘summers ‘Guring, rene are and they it give you-over

Up to. $4,000 in college aid is. yours just fori joining most units, Another $6, 000 for four. years of’.
monthly weekends and.two-week. summer stints. Plus: over $2,100 that you'll earn during two-
summer, training periods, ‘Alt while you're ‘getting the most out of colar} Ane doingt the most
ave | to wait for ‘graduation {0 oy the Army Reserve. There’ 5 no better ‘part- time

? For m more information about te Aimy. Reservei in this area, all your Army Réserve

Wa begs

~ Gift Certificates _
for Christmas giving.
as well as various. .
gift baskets ~

