‘shea since the. ine ii 50 : ¥ G tt Ne Ae

| College! Ss varied ames Here are her findings. : a i

: eg “Usie: AS. “ANC OGanaizeD ‘peti AND oe

: _ activities are, a matter of Satu: ng esi an-

nual was not. published. until, 1885 and the. catalog:
- does not mention anything musical until the 1894 edi-.=
“tion. Fortunately, Miss Comelia Shaw wrote for

"times just following the war when Davidson men and
village women created a Singing club, supplying
-music for-chapel services and open air entertainment
‘in the “cupola” on. nice. evenings. The men. ‘of this

group developed i into the Glee Club and were givena .

room in “old” Chambers (built: 1857).

The post-war years also saw a rise in instrumental
goups. Students played mandolins, violins, and flutes
mainly. D* Lingle. remembered a small. orchestra of
flutes and violins in the seventies which was “small,
but of excellent quality.” He also told the.story. of a
certain. Davidson String: Quartette which broke cur-
‘few in order to perform for some young ladies visiting
in a private home in the village in 1887. Miss Shaw
particularly ‘liked the ‘Jug Band” of 1885. The band
members assigned one. of. their fellows to. blow a
‘bass’ jug to substitute for the string version.

The students’ musical. talent. and enthusiasm
seems to have come to ‘administrative attention in.
1890 when they hired M' Poole, an aspiring minister,
‘to: organize. and coach the Glee Club, He also taught

voice lessons free of charge. The Glee Club ‘per-
formed jointly with the orchestra,.and Quips and
Cranks has. group
club about the same time. So by the turn,of the cen-
tury, music was a major extracurricular activity.

- After Poole left, the music groups continued as
they always had under student leadership. Then D..
Martin was appointed college president in 1912 ‘and

World War begén in 1914. At this time, there are two
stories about the beginning of a college band. A:1934
Davidsonian retells J.C. Pfohl’s version. Apparent-

DAVIBSONIAN’/ Friday’6 November 1981 |”

photos of a mandolin and. guitar ,

fla rs and Deroy cere ce. ay ‘whic
ve Pes By April, Unfortunately, : Uni

. BeiR reopen: meme “
io ROTC: ahs reap beast aad vel

known in the area.
. The students were very effective: iis even

. though different years brought fluctuations i in-talent —
and: enthusiasm, By 1923, they had created a Glee

Club Association: of ‘instrumentalists. and vocalists
which went on tours and performed at both religious

" and college ‘pep’ occasions, It is.in this year that they

acquired their coach and organizer, M® Carol Baker.

She was also director at Queens College and:came in |

once a week. Music thrived. Then Davidson began
receiving 5% of the Duke Endowment in 1926, possi-
bly prompting the administration to add a school lux-
ury,.the Fine. Arts Department, and a full time music
dineeor; M’ Emest Cullum.”

Music saw many “firsts” under Cullum, The band

received uniforms and the glee club-went to state con-
‘tests.and performed on radio shows (WBT). After the
New Chambers building. was completed i in 1930, he.

taught the first music courses, listed.in the catalog un-
der “Fine Arts.” He set up a music library in Shearer
Hall which contained phonograph records and “re-

cordings for the Duo-art reproducing piano.” Mu Be-
ta Psi, the music honor fraternity, got its start around
1930. Then Pfohl came in 1933, and took over where

Cullum stopped.

Undoubtedly, the eithhidiaain of Pfoht: was one dof

x the biggest contributing factors to music at Davidson.
He was only:twenty when he came from Michigan.
_ Just like Cullum, he got new uniforms for the band,

took the group on tours, and set them up on radio

.. Shows with WBT, WSOC, and.CBS. He also got the.

music “listeners” involved by setting up a Concert
Series and a Davidson Fine Arts Festival. He created

a very fine band which roused:school spirit on, the

football field. It later branched off into ROTC, foot-

baie a. 5 ead ae

im ball; ‘anaie ecaient + funediond Plans: for 2 an: n orchestra
id: | developed slowly; but by 1940he 1a

tle symphony, orchestra in.

- College. Clearly, he made a good impression on the
» faculty. The: year after: he came, ; the 4
3 Ge ra et a , the.

listed

joe and aieston bende sctce. “Miakic Abie

tion courses weté listed ini thé catalog! A Phi Mu Al ©
plia Chapter began in 1940, and in 1941, the first Da

: vidson student received a B.S. in Misie::( i.

However,: 1941 was also the year the ‘Japanese:
bombed Pear! Harbor: Quips and Cranks editions are
very skinny ‘and music activities were curbed until af-
ter 1945.

v-, By 1946, music activities had seantnett numbers |
and enthusiasm. Earl Berg changed the Glee; Club's
name.to. Male Chorus and tours resumed. The Foot-
ball Band under Pfohl grew to seventy-two. ‘members
and also began. touring again...One. year, they went

‘with the team as far as Rollins College in. Winter
. Park, Florida.

In 1952, direction of the music departinent went
to. Donald Plott;;who was the Male Chorus director
then. John Satterfield took over the band. The depart-
ment continued to grow. and strengthen. By 1959,
Davidson offered: the first music scholarship; One
year later, the ‘Cunningham Fine Arts’ Center was
completed. ‘Since then there have been an increasing
number of professors of music: With the advent of
co-education, new groups such as the Madrigal Sin-
gers in 1975 and the Women’s Chorus of 1976 have
expanded the music offerings:

In summary, what began as just a social and ex-

_ tracurricular activity has grown in status to that of an

academic pursuit and an extracurricular outlet. Look-
ing back, the most, positive influences seem to: be
WWI, after which the government furnished band i in-
struments; the: Duke Endowment. and subsequently
M’ Cullum; certainly J. C.. Pfohl with all his energy;
and the construction of the Cunningham Fine Arts
Center, representing a pore cca aauuide

By Joan Redding’ 82.

i
