— Film reviews by Nick Graham

On the Waterfront &
Ordinary People

HIS WEEK FINE FILMS COMES
up with one of the jewels in
the crown of. classic Amer-
ican cinema, Elia Kazan’s On the
Waterfront. It should require little
enough recommendation from me to
make you see the film that estab-
lished Marlon Brando as a star and
helped to revitalise Hollywood at the
height of the dream-factory’s strug-
gle against its neophyte rival, the
small screen of television.

The story is set in the grim
world of the New Jersey dockland
and concerns the life of a corrupt
union official who rules his proletar-
ian kingdom ‘with a ferocity .un-
equalled by any of
of industrial capitalism. In this par-
ticular jungle the law of survival is to
conform — or else. Dissenters

among ‘workers are intimidated ‘to.

the point of. violent death and the life

__ of the’ proles is ruthlessly controlled —
by the forces of organised’ labour

from the ‘cradle to the grave. Enter

: into.this sitiation Brando, playing a a

woefully inarticulate longshoreman,
a typical outsider in a’ world of al-

most overdone alienation. His strug-

gle towards some recognition of his

own worth, his:position in the world
- ‘of the waterfront anid the idea of a re:
. structured, benign

unionisation make up the meat of the

. film.

As ‘such, the major strength of
the story is probably the brutally
honest way in which working-class

life in the United States: was Ppor-
- trayed, a.real breakthrough i in terms

of what was and was not permissible
on the Hollywood screen. This fea-
ture hence also makes for an interest-
ing comprison with The Quiet One

shown two weeks ago, a film made ‘
only a few years earlier but hardly its

equal i in terms of political sophistica-

tion or artistic development. Sim-.
ilarly, On the Waterfront bears up
well in comparison with Elia Ka-.

zan’s ‘later feature East “Of Eden

“(shown last term, fall marks to Bob

robber-barons.:

degree. of

Trobich for careful programming)
where the image of the youthful out-
sider is drawn almost definitively in
cinema by James Dean.

The two performances comple-
ment each other well, and it is in this

dimension that I would venture to

suggest that the significance and sub-
ject matter of On the Waterfront tru-
ly resides. Brando’s performance
brought with it a new kind of acting
to the screen as well-as a new image
of alienated urban youth — one
which is with us still thirty years af-
ter the event. (Pauline Kael claims to

have first seen Brando in the Broad-

way production of this title, and ar-
riving late during #Brando soliloquy
was convinced that the actor was suf-
fering from epilepsy on stage.) Jok-
ing aside, this performance by Bran-
do is part of every American’s birth-
right, or should be, and stands up to
repeated viewing. There are in fact
those. who await his “Contender”

_ speech with the same sort of expecta- -

tion reserve for certain lines in Ca-
sablanca. The film boasts fine per-
formances all. round, particularly
from Rod S:ciger as the union boss.
Go to Love Auditorium on Wednes-
day the 21“ October at 8.00 pm.

~. (Ona vaguely related, and rath-

er clirigus note, can anybody ‘supply

an etymology for the name “Mar-
lon’? Most dictionaries of Christian

- Names tend only to refer the reader to

M' Brando’s publicity agent rather

. than to. his parents. I’ve always
_ thought that it sounds like an obscure

product of Dupont Chemicals my-

and

onight’s Pop. Films continue
their season of blockbusters
_ with last year’s hit and win-

ner of more Academy Awards than I
‘ean: remember. Ordinary People.
- Robert Redford’s much-vaunted di-
_rectorial debut comes to Love Audit-.
orium at.8.00:& £0.30 pm: I have to
confess at the outset that I was proba-
_ bly the onty person of my aquain- .

tance not to be immensely impressed
by this film first time around. In spite
of excellent performances by the
three principles and ‘a frequently
overlooked tour de force by the fam-
ily shrink I found that the film finally
left me lukewarm to cold.

Granted it is entirely possible

that every average’ middle class -

American family is a seething caul-

dron of repressed neurosis and CEdi- :

pal hatred, but the assumption made

by many people, that this imme-:
diately made the film an. important :

and valid work of cinematic art

seemed to me somewhat unjustified.

In practice I found that it all re-
minded me rather too closely of
Woody Allen’s Interiors debacle.
Like that film it attempted to be obs-
curely profound but merely ended up
being infuriatingly. shallow, at best

‘tendentious. Put another way: how

many families do vou know that are
actually like that? I suspect: that: In-

gmar Bergman has no need to look to |

his laurels yet by any means. It is one
thing to re-write Sartre and claim
that “Hell is ordinary people” but
when one chooses to illustrate this
with material derived from low-rat-
ing soap-opera then one leaves one-
self open to ridicule of a cruel kind.

Still, 1am doubtless in. the
wrong — Academy Awards are
quite an intimidating recommenda-
tion in themselves — and the film is

almost worth seeing for the sake of
“Mary. Tyler Moore's exquisitely

mannered performance as the. wife-

bh Satie a3

8

and-mother of our typically fissional
nuclear family. As a parting shot I
confess that I found infuriating and
intrusive Redford’s repeated use of
the rainbow-motif in a subliminal —
way throughout the film. They are all
over the place. Amuse yourself by
trying to spot.them. Go along with
everybody else and see it anyway: it
seems that Caliban.is pleased by
what he thinks is his reflection inthe .
glass. Exit Graham beneath a trans-
atlantic cloud. :

For all two of you who have
been waiting since last week, breath
bated, to discover the name of the la- |
dies’ jazz ensemble in the: original

version of. Some Like It-Hot, they

were called “The Alpine ‘Violets.”
Hardly worth. waiting for was it?
Well, nobody’s perfect.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 October 1981

