Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
our readers. We try to print all letters that are
of general interest, but we adhere to these four
guidelines:

[1] We require that letters be in our hands
by Tuesday 7 PM.

[2] We require that letters be neatly typed.

[3] We require that letters be signed and
include the author’s phone number arid ad-
dress. If you have a compelling reason for us
to withhold your name, explain your situation
to the editor, John Siman.

[4] We reserve the right not to print letters
that (a) function as advertisements; (b) con-
tain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes;
(c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that
expressed in many other letters printed on the
same topic. We also reserve the right to con-
dense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way en-
dorse the opinions expressed in the letters that
we print. .

‘Women’s house

To the Editor: ’
It is my opinion that Hooper “Lex” Alexander’s

commentary upon the possible establishment of.a se- ~

cond all-women eating house cannot go unanswered.
He is correct in asserting that the motives of Jane Alex-
anian, Kathy Kooken, and me for establishing this
house should be scrutinized carefully. The Council on

Campus and Religious Life will do this when they de-
cide to whom the two empty Patterson Court houses -

should go. I resent, however, ‘his implication that we
have only one motive (social advantages). Yes, Hoop-

er; increased social benefits are one advantage to anall- —

women eating house. You question, however, our mo-
tive of providing a “forum that would enable co-eds to

discuss issues relevant to women today” because the —

Women’s Center was established to do this-very thing.
Their success, however, has been limited.. I applaud

the founders of the Women’s Center for their intentions |

and for their efforts, but I feel that the poor attendance

at many Women’s Center functions proves that their’

forum ee not been seca Perhaps they have ‘not

6

addressed the issues in which most Davidson women
are interested. Perhaps the manner in which they have ~

presented these issues is inconsistent with the David-
son woman’s schedule or simply with the way in which
she likes to express herself. A second all-women eating
house could provide an adequate forum for discussing
women’s issues by simply bringing girls together twice

~ each day for at least a half of an hour each time. Itis my

feeling, and the feeling of many other women on cam-
pus that we would rather discuss those issues signi-
ficant to us spontaneously over lunch or dinner than
take several hours each week out of our busy schedules
to go to a organized discussion at the Women’s Center
about which we may or may not be concerned. I feel
that the proposal that Kathy, Jane, and I have submit-
ted provides a more practical means for accomplishing
the goal held by the Women’s Center.

I defend Kathy Kooken’s assertion. that ° ‘women .

feel freer to discuss their concerns in an all-women set-
ting” against Hooper’s criticism. The value of discuss-
ing such issues as marriage, family and career in an all-
women setting lies in the increased awareness of the fe-
male point of view on such issues.

I disagree strongly that guts .are ‘more necessary

~~" than setting to produce significant conclusions. If Da-
. vidson'women lacked the guts to stand up for their own

opinions in front of males they would not have chosen
to attend Davidson College!!! They clearly possess the
courage and the ability to analyze such issues. What
they lack is a satisfactory forum. Why is it that David
son males have not felt the need to open’a Men’s Cen-

"ter? I believe that it is because there are six fraternities

that provide many men with a forum to discuss a male
point of view. (There are many opportunities for those

Davidson males not choosing a fraternity to discuss

these issues in an all-men Setting because there are so
many more men than women.)

No, Hooper, Jane, Kathy and I do not want a Pat- ©
terson Court’ house simply to “play sorority.” That is -
absurd. What we wish to provide to 34 percent of the
student body is another alternative:to co-ed eating. We-
wish to provide to those 45 girls on the waiting list at-
Rusk, to those 59 freshmen who sigried a petition ex-

pressing their interest in all-female eating, and to those

“women eating independently unhappily the opportu-
nity for a lot of fun, for unity with their fellow females,
the charice to eat “female food,” and a place to discuss

comfortably and spontaneously those issues that con-
cem them. hie

Anne B. Rollins 84

When is a felony .
Not a felony?
The Davidson experience

To The Editor:

“I also can’t believe the lack of support I received
from anyone who had anything officially-to do with the
Honor. Code. ”

— John Siman

M' Siman, in your editorial last week why were you
so surprised at the Davidson Administration’s failure
to take action, legal or otherwise, against an explicit
Honor Code violation and feloriy? M‘ Siman, you are a
senior and the editor of the Davidsonian; surely you are
not so blind as to miss what I have come to see so clear-
ly in my four years at Davidson — The Honor System .
at Davidson is and always has been selectively permea-
ble. This case is merely an example of the Administra-
tion’s “mysterious” enforcement of the Honor System.
Why can’t the Davidsonian print the name of this stu-
dent? You have provided the Administration with evi-
dence that substantiates the guilt of this student (whom
you, I, and many others know). I am calling for this
student’s name for no other reason than to point out that
this student is being protected by the Administration’s
double standard of Honor System enforcement.

I am sure that the Administration felt this course of
action was in the best interest of the College. Perhaps
this year’s Phonathon results will be better than ever.

Dana J. Bolton 82

_Christmas Fund

To the Editor:

_ This year’s Christmas Gift Fund will be given to
the S' Croix Hospital in Leogane, Haiti, for public
health. We selected this project for two reasons.

First of all, the need is desperate. Haiti is the poor-
est country in the Western Hemisphere. Though they
have a population of 5 million-in an area the size of Ma-
ryland, two-thirds of their land-is non-arable. Their
weak economy has been devastated: by hurricanes in
the past several years. Health problems due to poor nu-
trition and bad sanitation are rampant. These people

o need our help.

Secondly., we chose Haiti because we have a relia-
ble conduit for our gift. Through the Presbyterian Med-
ical Benevolence Foundation, we can channel the
funds directly to the S' Croix Hospital. This hospital for
the poor is jointly operated by the Episcopal and Pres-
byterian Churches: Our money will go where it is most
needed.

~ Our campaign goal is $10,000. Ifeach student, fac-
ulty, and staff person will give $10, we will easily

, achieve this mark.

Let us begin our Christmas celebration with a pift
that will bring joy to the people of Haiti and to the One

: whose birth we e celebrate.

Charlie Summers
College Chaplain

DAVIDSONIAN /Friday11December 1981
