Reforn

s bite the gold dust

Strategic concerns outweigh moral ones
in Reagan’s South African policy

South Africa’s prime minister, M' P.W. Bo- -

R eformist chickens are coming home to roost for

tha. During his first two years in power, when
he was trying to coax his deeply conservative party into
accepting reform, he adopted what seemed the clever
strategy of appointing commissions of inquiry to pro-
pose reforms he actually favoured himself. But then

last April a general election revealed that South Afri-

can politics were veering sharply to the right. M’ Botha
responded by going into retreat on reform — just as
those commissions were preparing to report.

Several have embarrassed him already. The most
discomfiting was last week’s recommendation ftom a
commission on the educational system that the govern-
ment should end apartheid in education and allow the
opening of schools to all races. Denouncing racial sep-
aratism in education as “contrary to the social and ethi-
cal demands for justice”, the commission called for a
new system, under a single ministry, that would Pro-
vide equal education for all.

Strong stuff. Too strong for the post-April M‘ Bo-
tha. "tis government immediately issued a white paper
rejecting the central theme of the report and reafirming
the government’s commitment to separate educational
systems. Disgusted, nine members of the commission
accused the government of striking a “disastrous and
irreparable” blow to education.

Cold war fixation

from The Economist

am

Ion eseae

There had been other, earlier embarrassments. The
president’s council, set-up to be M' Botha’s main in-
strument of reform, has urged a review of the Group

Areas Act and influx control regulatins — two corner-.

stones of apartheid. It’has also called for the return to
their original coloured and Indian inhabitants of two

key residential areas which have been zoned for

whites. The government, caught between causing
more right-wing trouble and damaging the credibility
of its new institution, has done nothing.

It dead-batted, too, on the final report of the Wie-
hahn commisssion on labour teforms. This commissi-

- ons’s first reports paved the way for blacks to be al-

lowed to form trade unions. Its final report, two weeks
ago, dealt with dropping the colour bar in the mines,

where white conservatism is at its strongest. Blacks
have never been eligible for blasting certificates, which
are the passport to. skilled work in the mines. The com-
mission has now urged that this rule be changed — ad-
ding the catch-22 provision that the mine workers’
union should agree first. The government temporised

oe
f-

America’s ill-conceived South African policy

evolving policy toward South Africa almost ex-

clusively within the context of American eco-
nomic and strategic stakes. The fundamental economic
stake, of course, consists of about 373:'U.S. companies
in South Africa, with aggregate direct investments of
$2 billion in 1980. South A frica’s trade with the United
States — including such minerals vital to American in-
dustry as chromium, manganese, and platinum —
amounts to $3.4 billion annually. The sea route around
‘the Cape of Good Hope:is perceived as both.an eco-
nomic and strategic interest because it is the maritime
passageway for Middle Eastern petroleum destined for
Western Europe and the United States. For Reagan po-
licymakers, South Africa is especially valued as a pro-
Western bulwark against Soviet-bloc expansion in the

T he Reagan administration has formulated its

whole rim of soutern Africa, and is also welcomed as a_ .

potential : ally} in the administration’ 8 boisterous cold,
war policy:

~The cold war fixation. of Reagan’s foreign seaiiee
has taken precedence over Washington’ $ past concern «.
rol apa ) of South Africa's black ma

Y  hcr ely ansaid to tts, Pidideatingss
maived: in ER new. direction, . which suggested. .

-. ambassador to the United Nations, received the.

: from Africa Report

U.S. support of the apartheid regime and aretreat from

official policy of the last two decades. In reference to
South Africa’s rigid system of racial segregation, the
president defended U.S. support on both moral and
strategic grounds: “As long as there’s a sincere and

. honest effort being made [by the apartheid régime},
based on our own experience in our own land, it would
"seem to me that we should be trying to be helpful. . . .

Can we abandon a country. . . that strategically is es-
sential to the Free World in its production of minerals
we all must have and so forth?”

The first evidence of rupture from. established poli-
cy followed when five South African military officers,

including the chief of military intelligence, secretly ar-._
tive ip se Unley ines oe conoteee Cone nee =e

National Security Council and the Pet

“Intelligence Agency: "fan Krkparie, bolding apo ae

icy-level- position in: the administration as.

witttiit

it

ISRERGEOMAR a it LOLA
phd hh q

tT

pai

‘SlSeanl
Cirit
s

FROM THE LOS ANGELES TIMES

by saying it was up to the employers to get this
agreement. But if the Afrikaner government does not
put pressure on the mainly Afrikaner miners, the En-
glish mining houses will not fight to bring in blacks.
Another reform bites the gold dust.

consultations with U.S. officials violated long-stand-

_ing policy. outlawing official business visits to this
“ country by members of South Africa’s armed forces.

Although the White House expelled the South Africans
and attempted to excuse the infraction by stating that
they obtained visas by concealing their identity as mil-
itary leaders, the disingenuous excuse glossed over the
chilling fact that they had completed their clandestine
consulations before the‘expulsion.

The administration’s willingness to align with the
apartheid dictatorship was confirmed finally in May by
the disclosure of State Department. briefing papers

- affirming Washington’s readiness to “open a new

chapter” in bilateral relatigns in exchange for South
Africa’s codperation in combating Soviet influence in
southern Africa, notably in Angola, and Pretoria’s sup-
port for an “internationally acceptable” solution in Na-
mibia. (When Assistant Secretary of State’ Chester A.
Crocker visited several African states during April, he
ed to win- support for a negotiated. Namibian
nent that proposed constitutional guarantees for.

-Namibias’s White minority as a precondition of inde-.

South - pendénce.).Not since Kissinger's ill-conceived NSSM.
- African intelligence chief; General P.W. Vander Wes- ch :

thuizen, an ee The South Africans’ ‘visits and

39 tad Washington tnaalleted such cheapie em-
‘brace of South Africas...
