2—The Davidsonian—February 6, 1981

News at a Glance

The Davidson College Bowl A-team placed first and the
B-team third in last weekend’s UNC-Charlotte invitational
tournament. Participants in the tournament were Appalachian,
East Carolina, UNC-Greensboro, Wofford, Winthrop, UNC-
Charlotte, and Davidson.

The SGA Career Symposium will be March 30 and 31. Last
month’s influenza epidemic forced the cancellation of the

symposium op originally scheduled.

New chairman of Union committees were announce this week.
They will begin work Spring term.

Committees in the Co-Curricular Council under Vice-Presi-.
dent Lindsay Biddle are:

Gallery: Norwood Smith

College Bowl: Marvin Overby

Cultural Events: John Thomas

Fine Films: Bob Trobich

Campus Forum: John Eley

Speakers: Sherman Allen

Committees in the Social Council under Vice-President
Jonathan West are:

Concert: Dana Bolton

Dance: Jean Soracco

Dorm Social: Ellen Gyauch

Games: Mike Goode

Intimate Performances: James Funsten

Outing: Mark Elmore and Bob Bruce

Pop Films: Jeff Herrin

The Union is also seeking a chariman for a newly-formed
International Committee, according to President Ann Parker.

Lieutenant General Harry Griffith, commander of the Defense
Nuclear Agency, will talk with students at Coffee and: Cokes
next Thursday, February 12 at 10 a.m. in the Gallery.

Griffith will focus on issues relating to military preparedness,
.Muclear weapons, andthe draft. He is the father of sophomore
Paul Griffith.

The Davidson Town. Board will hold a public meeting next
Tuesday at 7 p.m. to explain the current status of negotiations
| between the towns of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville and
the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Utilities Department (C-MUD).

Three years ago the towns agreed to tie into a county-wide
sewage treatment system at the new MacDowell Creek plant
near Huntersville. The controversy arose when C-MUD
announced it would charge the towns a rate double the rate
charged to customers within Charlotte city limits.

Such a rate increase would ‘certainly affect the College,”
Mayor Nancy MacCormac said.

The towns have so far refused to accept C-MUD’s proposed
rates. However, Huntersville and Cornelius have been forced
into the system because of the expiration of their own sewage
plant licenses.

Davidson is now the only town not served by the MacDowell
Creek plant.

The meeting will be in the Town Hall beside the town police
station.

The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has
reopened licensing proceedings for Duke Power Company’s
McGuire nuclear plant, located five miles from Davidson.

The order to reopen proceedings is a result of the work of the |

Carolina Environmental Study Group (CESG). CESG has
charged that McGuire’s containment wall cannot withstand. the
pressures which would be generated by a hydrogen explosion
inside the plant, that such an explosion is possible, and that no
adequate environmental impact study or crisis relocation plan
has been developed.

A public litigation group affiliated with Ralph Nader is also
_involved in the proceedings, according to CESG. Board member
Sarah Wilson.

A public hearing before the Atomic Safety and Licensing
Board of the NRC will begin at 9:30 a.m., February 24, in the
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Public Library auditorium, 310 North
Tryon Street, Charlotte, Wilson said.

Members of the public will be able to make statements at this

Newspapers - rarely observe anniversaries. But this one is
worthy of note: ._.

One year ago, on February 5, 1980, the College was plunged
into pre-Industrial Revolution darkness by a power failure.

Students decided to amuse themselves by building what was to |

become the Great Davidson Bonfire.
-Enjoy the reminiscences.

Our apologies to photographers Johathan Keith and Mark
Widick who were not given proper credit for their work in last
week’s Davidsonian. Keith took the women's basketball picture
on pegs 6, and Widick that of Dean of Students Will Terry on
page

Is your eating house sanitary?

By TIM WHALEN ~

Assistant News Editor
[Editors’ note: Tim Whalen
acquired a copy of the North
Carolina sanitation regulations.

This report is based on his un-

official investigation. } —

Patterson Court Fraternities

and eating houses would prob-
ably pass North Carolina State
Health Department sanitation
inspections.
' Court houses are not subject
to the Health Department regu-
lations because they are private
clubs as defined by State sani-
tation regulations.

Even the least sanitary of the
court houses would probabley
receive a grade ‘‘B”’ if inspect-
ed. Food serving establish-
ments must merit at least a
grade “‘C’”’ to be licensed.

There are several areas where
court houses would not be in
compliance with the regula-

tions.

The law requires that all
dishwashing sinks have three
compartments furnished with
hot and cold running water and
‘‘splash back protection.” Court
houses use two compartment
sinks as well as three compart-
ment sinks for dishwashing. No
court sinks have splash back
protection.

The law requires that the
third sink compartment be used
for bactericidal treatment of
dishes. Dishes must be chemi-
cally treated or immersed for
one minute in water of 170
degreeF or hotter. The water
temperature must be maintain-
ed by a heater attached to the
compartment. No court houses

disinfect dishes in this manner.

The law requires all kitchen
employees to wear hair re-
straints. Not all court cooks do,
however, and no dishwashers or

Football team ‘lifts’ weights

waiters use them.
The law requires thermomet-

: ers in refrigerators, freezers,

and disinfection compartments.
No court house has such ther-
mometers.

The law does not allow estab-
lishments to use bent silver-
ware, cracked glasses, or chipp-
ed plates. However, at least
some court. houses do.

The law requires that estab-
lishments be free of animals. At
least one court house keeps a
cat.

Sanitation grades are based
maninly on food preparation,
food storage, and cleaning and
disinfection of equipment and
utensils. Other criteria include
cleanliness and health of em-
ployees, storage of equipment
and utensils, proper waste dis-
posal, adequate toilet and lava-
tory facilities, and general
cleanliness and neatness.

Equipment move angers students

By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

The Athletic Department has
moved some of the College’s
weight equipment and restrict-
ed its use by students who are
not members of a varsity team.

The decision upset a number
of students interested i in weight

lifting.

Athletic Director Eugene
Bingham said the free weights
were moved from Johnston gym
to the old track dressing room
on the west side of Richardson
field. The new weight room will
be open only under the supervi-
sion of a varsity coach or
faculty member.

Previously the weight room
was open to students at all
times.

Bingham said the weights
were moved for ‘‘safety pur-
poses and to avoid a lawsuit.”’

Head Football Coach Ed
Farrell denied reports that he
requested the move, although
he said “it had my vote.”’ He
added that the varsity coaches
were in agreement with the
decision after a proposal by

Football and Track Coach Steve ‘

Frank, who is in charge of the
football team’s weight program.
Farrell said the proposal had
been discussed for some time.
Farrell, emphasizing the im-
portance of supervision, said
the weights were moved be-

JOHN V.
WASHAM
Dispensing

Uptician —— |

tact Lenses.
Eye glass prescriptions

Wide. ‘selection of frames.
Duplication of your pre-
sent lenses.
Eyeglass repair.
Off Hwy 21
1 mile south of Cornelius
Across from Lakeside
Restaurant
892-7500

cause of liability. ‘‘Free weights
are dangerous items,’’ he said.

Farrell cited the condition in.

which students left the weight
room as another problem which

led to the move. There were:

‘weights all over the room”’
when varsity teams came for
scheduled workouts, he said.

Theft has also caused ‘‘a
great deal of trouble,” accord-
ing to Farrell. He said that a
donor who has given a signifi-
cant amount of money for
weights was concerned about
the amount of money used each
year to replace stolen equip-
ment.

According to Farrell, the
weights wer moved to the
stadium once before, several
years ago, but were later return-
ed to the gym because of poor
weather conditions.

Bingham said the weights
remaining in the gym are ade-
quate for those who are not on a
varsity team.

Sophomore George Murrell
and junior Dana Bolton dis-
agree.

They said there are 30 to 40
non-varsity students who use
the weight room. At least 20 lift

weights on a regular basis.

Bolton, who lifts weights
regularly, said he knows of no
injuries in the weight room.
Inexperienced and less serious
weight- lifters. were “never. an
inconvenience,” he added,

The regular weight-lifters
were ‘‘pretty upset”’ at first
about the move, according to
Bolton, but he said he is willing
to work with the change.

Murrell is organizing a
weight-lifting club in response
to the move. He is now search-
ing for a faculty sponsor, al-
though ‘‘it is tough to get
someone.”

Murrell said that, while he is
willing to work as a club now,
he feels that no faculty member
knows more about weights than
the students who lift regularly.
The weight-lifters ‘‘are adults,
too,’’ he added, and ‘‘won’t be
satisfied until they give us
responsibility on our own.”

If there is enough student
response, Murrell thinks that
“‘money will have to be allocat-
ed to buy students weights.”

Bolton said the new location
will not be a problem ‘‘as long
as we're allowed to use it.”

t

Co \ ae

~o"avavay. TOF 4

| write or.call G. William Climer, Jr.

Camp Thunderbird

Employment at its Best
Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women
who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding
them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only
those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to
help each individual child develop his or her potential should
apply. One must have ability to teach in one or more of our
specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches
should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south
of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming
and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed’on the land
sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back
packing). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping
are extras in our excellent program. For further information
Director, Camp

Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 1664A, Clover, S.C. 29710
(803-831-2121).

