page 14

DAVIDSONIAN

Anti-americanism abroad
A JYA- Marburg student discusses how Germans feel about us

HIRTY YEARS AGO, “GOING OVERSEAS” MEANT
most likely heading off to Europe as a soldier in
an occupying army that was meant to deter the
Soviets from attempting an invasion during those
touchy “cold war” years. The American dollar was
worth four marks and the Americanization of Europe
was in full swing. The days of late big band/early rock-
and-roll and the fashions and mentality to go along
swept across Germany. The Americans were the sav-
iour of Europe — preserving peace and freedom by
staving off the Soviets with grandiose military airlifts
and by pumping large sums of money into the Euro-
pean, especially the German economy. However, in
the past thirty years things have changed. “Going over-
seas” is now analogous with travelling in Europe (Eu-
railing) or doing some kind of Junior Year Abroad
(JYA) program. American products are being market-
ed in larger numbers every year, American fashions
and fads become popular about a year or two after they
are introduced here, and the European music industry
is dominated by the American and English recording
concerns. Moreover, the label “American” has been
transformed from something very good into something
very bad, representing arise in anti-Americanism com-
parable to that in Germany after the entrance of the
U.S. into World War II.
The cause of this anti-U.S. sentiment is an overall
insensitivity to European customs and mentality in our

foreign policy and our very posessive attitude toward —

Western Europe. The German students, who love to
have a cause and are never unified on any topic, have
found a universal cause, and are unifying behind anti-
Americanism.

America is seen by the Germans as a power exert-
ing influence on Western Europe much like the Soviets
do in their Eastern Bloc Countries. The U.S. has
Army-Air Force exercises at will and moves troops and

School days

~

John Hoots 82

armaments for both offensive and defensive types-of
war. The U.S. can also force deployment of weapons
like the controversial medium range nuclear warhead
rockets and the neutron bomb in Europe, thus restrict-
ing the brunt of a tactical war in Europe, and as the So-
viets would like to use Eastern Europe. Most impor-
tantly, it is hard for Europeans to distinguish between

the role of the U.S. in. NATO and the role of the

U.S.S.R. in the Warsaw Pact.

he scars of war are evident everywhere in Ger
many. As a student in Marburg, I found bomb
craters in the woods by the jogging path,
bombed-out churches left as memorials in large cities,
scars of machine-gun bullets and shrapnel in old church
walls, bombed out bridge abutments along major rivers
such as those at Remagen-on-the-Rhine, and most im-
portantly, candid descriptions of air raids, military en-
gagements and fleeing from the East leaving home,
family and friends beloved, from the victims of WW II,
the people who lived through it. War is not easy to
forget, and German students, none of whom have ex-
perienced it, are not willing to see their land destroyed
again by a war for which they are not responsible.
Another disturbing reality is the increased U.S.
involvement in the support of right-wing régimes in
Southeast Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and South and
Central America against any kind of leftist movement.
While our papers and newscasts talk about guerilla

warfare in Afghanistan, so does the German media.

An alumnus takes his first step into the Real World

Friday 25.September 1981

| However, they also talk about Chile, Argentina, El

Salvador and the rest of the U.S. sphere of influence,
revealing how unjustified direct U.S. movement often
is in these countries.

I then found myself trying to defend the US. posi-
tion in each of these instances. and justify the intense
U.S. involvement in Europe, all of which I knew very
little- about: last year at this time. Many times I took
these attacks of anti-Americanism personally, which
was very difficult when they came from friends. Often
the sentiment was spontaneous, resulting from a radio,
TV, or newspaper report, or other times the ‘students
seem to have thought out their arguments quite thou-
roughly, as was the case with a Socialist couple who

. lived two doors down from me. I was, however, almost

universally able to take solace in the fact that whatever
the U.S. had done, the Soviets had done something
worse, a weak but often convincing argument. After
each confrontation passed, and discusion turned to so-
cial matters or stopped completely, I thouroughly con-
sidered the implications of the opposing argument and
have pieced together my own ideas about U.S. involve-
ment in world affairs, as I could look out my window
and imagine what Marburg was like during WW II and
what it would be like if WW III ever came.

It is not necessary to travel in Europe to expe-
rience anti-Americanism, nor is it necessary to go to
Europe to become more sensitive about these issues.
One can at least become more informed about U.S. in-
volvement in other countries and form an opinion,
which can lead to a better understanding of our foreign
policy, and some much needed criticism of that foreign
policy from within this country.

John Hoots is a senior chemistry major from Win-
ston-Salem. John spent last year in Marburg, West
Germany with the JYA program.

hen I walked across that ply---
W wood stage last May to ac-

cept my diploma I was a very
happy man.
All those years of educational i ir-

relevance were over. No more ridicu- -

lous Humanities reviews, no more aca-
demic parochialism (“We don’t ‘hire
Marxist economists here”) and no more
slide. shows of Mark Twain’s linen suit
collection. I was finally out from under
Davidson’s: shelter and was ready to
face The Real World.

- The Real World, for the uninitiat- .

ed, is a place which has been discussed
in certain op-ed articles in this newspa-
per in recent years, ones that have la-
mented Davidson’s otherworldliness. It
is in The Real World where hard deci-
sions are made. It is in The Real World
where things matter. It is a place where

Adam Smith the political economist is —
revered but where Adam Smith the mor- :

al philosopher is unheard of. It is where

men are men and women are not.Quee-

nies, where there are no extensions on
overdue work, and where you can’t just

‘punt and go skiing for a few days. And, -
so the theory goes, itis a place for which
one. must be prepared, a job that, well,

Davidson pet doesn’t do.

Donald Caldwell ’81

So I set out, Strunk and White in
hand, for my, first.Real World battle-

‘ground, a summer ‘internship with-the

Atlanta Constitution. There I knew I
would find people who were doing prac-

ticar work, meaningful work. People -

who affected events and never cared
what Mark Twain wore. I was not to be
disappointed.

I covered municipal strikes. and

city hall news conferences. Fires,

drought, and one double murder. I spent
a day staking out the house of Wayne
Williams, who has since been accused

. with: the- murders of two of Atlanta’s

missing children, I interviewed a wom-

an the day after her husband, a Canadian

hydrofoil ‘racer, had fallen overboard

and had been decapitated by his engine
propellor (‘So tell me, Mrs. Rabino-

witz, how did you feel yesterday when
you saw your husband...”). All this is in

the first two weeks.of June.
This was all very exciting. I found
an immediacy and a tension in reporting

' that I had not found in Leibnitz, Pope, ©

and Emerson. I was sure that while man
in the 20" century could get along quite
well without knowing about the latest
Parisian intellectual spat, he would have
a harder time living without daily politi-
cal and economic information.

f this I’ was certain until I

began receiving assignments
that required a greater degree of

‘analysis and a respect for subtlety. After

interviewing» séveral: state _ officials
about proposals for penal reform in

‘Georgia, I realized that their positions

often developed not out of any serious

_ reflection but out of their visceral con-
“ception of human nature. One group.

argued for an end to parole, for manda-
tory sentences ;and for a corresponding

“restriction of judicial descretion in sen-
‘tencing. The- other group. called for a

greater emphasis, on rehabilitation and
‘an expansion of parole. The first group

: felt that even if human behavior: could
“be modified, it was not the state’s busi-
ness' todo so, The second arguéd that ~~
not only could criminal behaviour be

modified, but that it was socially imper-
ative to begin immediately.
The disagreement, I finally recog-.

- nized, focused not on restructuring a bu-

reaucracy but on the nature of man. One
side saw a virtuous humanity protecting
itself from outlaws while the other saw a
decadent society turning its back on the
flawed individuals’ it had created. John
Locke, B.F. Skinner, William Shakes-
peare, and all those other unworldly
types suddenly seemed very relevant.
While academic parochialism and
trivia masquerading as scholarship re-

main as problems to be dealt with, the

strength of Davidson’s educational pro- -

_ gram continues to lie in its emphasis on

analyzing problems in depth, in pushing
to.see through the clutter of politics and
prejudice into ‘the. nature of timeless
questions. In this sense Davidson is The
Real World, .as the social and moral
issues’ we face are*brought into greater
focus in isolation: This, perhaps, is an
argument that appeals only to the al-
ready convinced, but. in the past four
years my eyes have been opened a little
wider and for this I am sith

‘Donald Caldwell sidluated from
Davidson in May 1981.
