8—The Davidsonian—January 30, 1981

Features

Film Review

Nick Graham

‘In the absence of any Pop Film activity this weekend—a
combination of Urban Cowboy dances and Herbie Mann’s jass is
thought to have taken the shine off Mr-Newcomb’s regis— I had
been looking forward to reviewing the forthcoming Fine Film An
ee ae ee ee ee week aay to be told that

it's been squeezed out of a heavy college schedule for next week.

However, the connoisseur of fine films and scintillating
cinema need not despair, for a relatively lean week does have at
least one consolation. This is the showing of Honeysuckle Rose
tonight (Thursday) at 8 p.m. in Love, the first event in the
Midwinters celebration. A recent Hollywood production (1980)
it stars Dyan Cannon and Willie ‘Nelson in-an exploration of
country music and life-on-the-road. Willie plays a country
singer—who may or may not be Willie Nelson thinly
disguis¢d—unable to decide whether he’s married to his wife
(Ms. on) or his music (the charms of wich are considerably
enhanced by an attractive duet-partner). A familiar, hackneyed
plot, you may think? To a certain extent, yes, but such things
seem to be of the essence of every country song I’ve ever heard,
and the film commendably eschews the excesses of mawkish
sentimenitality one tends to associate with the musical genre.
Dyan Cannon, clad in spray-on jeans and insufficient blouse
smolders to considerable effect throughout, and Willie Nelson
extends the range of his acting far beyond what was promised
by his brief appearance in Electric Horseman. The major
problem of the film however is that as an investigation of the
marital problems which purport to be its subject matter,
Honeysuckle Rose simply lacks any sort of penetration. Viewed
as a documentation and celebration of the great American
myths of life-on-the-road and the enriching powers of music in
human experience its is undoubtedly more successful, leaving
one feeling - vaguely uplifted by it all and somehow better
disposed to one’s fellow men. As such it is probably the perfect
anticdote to Midwinters.

The one note of ‘concern this week embraces the apparent
relegation of both Fine and Pop Films to final place in the order
of Davidson’s cultural priorities. My main grouse here is with
the cancellation of the Fine Film. Pop Films regularly draw a
rather larger audience and hence arguably suffer less by a
disruption of thei: s.:hedule. Still, it would be nice to have an
alternative for non-jazz cinephiles on Friday night simply
because the more chances people have of seeing quality films at
Davidson, the better.

The cancellation of An American in Paris is an altogether
greater disappointment. Next week’s schedule at the Union and
around College is a heavy one and it is a shame that room could
not be found for an excellent film. Fine Films seem to have a
precarious, irregular audience at times, and cancellations of its
schedule simply mean that fewer people come to regard a qualify
film on Wednesday night as a regular event of their week. This
is not to suggest that people should |): encouraged to watch
films simply because of the utter paucit; .f other entertainment,
but it would be a good idea if some of the people could see all of
the films some of the time. Perhaps an alternative showing
should have been sought out with greater assiduity. Certainly
the film’s loss is a sad blow to Davidson cinema-goers.

Plus: This week’s Cinematic Quiz. What exactly is a
corruscating regis? The lucky winner may win a right out at the
.cinema of their choice with The Davidsonian’s film critic.

present The Kays 7

a COUMUY [WE

ursday

ern alterna ‘ive.

Line filled with sex; 75th, with old people

By EAN SORACCO
Back Page Editor

What do five people standing
in line and a seventy-fifth high
school reunion have to do with
each other? They are the basic
plots of Line and 75th, the
Theatre Workshop plays being
presented this Thursday and
Friday. Both are the work of
Israel Horovitz, a contempor-
ary American playwright.

Directed by Senior Sheri
Gravett, Line involves five
characters who manipulate and
trick each other out of first
position in line. “It is a very
brutal play filled with sex and
violence but also very funny,
although it takes a serious turn
towards the end,’’ Gravett said.

Gravett has found the play a
challenge to direct since there is
no set except a white tape line.
“The cast is experienced,”’
Gravett said, ‘‘and I haven't
restricted their addition of stage
movements that each felf was
necessary to his character.”’

The cast of Line includes
Esther Bruce, Dave Dusseault,
Charlie Lovett, Lindsay Ro-
bertson, and David Webb.

Seventy-fifth is directed by
Senior Ed Gaynor. The story

takes place at a seventy-fifth
high school class reunion in
which the only two surviving
class members do not remember
each other. The comedy is built
upon their acquaintance and

“The jokes are not what one
expects from two 93 year ol
Gaynor said ‘“The play is a low-
key comedy that has been fun to
direct and should be fun for the
audience.”

‘Most difficult,’’ Gaynor
continued, ’’has been getting
the two cast members to de-
velop a relationship like that of

the characters.”’ They are fresh-
man Pat Donley and senior
Laurie Campbell.

“The two plays have been put
together to show the different
aspects of Horovitz and the
development of his style,’’ Gay-
nor said.

' Line was first produced in
1971. 75th is the second in the
series ‘‘The Quannapowitt
Quartet,” which is from a larger
work, The Wakefield Cycle.

Performances are at 7 p.m.
Thursday and 4 p.m. Friday in
the workshop in Cunningham
Fine Arts Building.

Laurie Campbell an@at Donley try to become friend in 75th.

He did it for love and money

(DavidMecCurry)

Trivia turns scholarly in Nelson’s A/manac

By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Writer

You can cram an extra person
into a Volkswagen, or wait an-
other hour on top of a flag pole
in order to make it into the
Guiness Book of World Records
but you must be American and
literary to be recorded in
English Professor Randy Nel-
son’s new Almanac of American
Literature. Nelson has collected
years of trivia and anecdotes
and compiled it all into one
large volume to be released as a
Book-of-the-Month Club selec-
tion this spring.

“It all started in grad school,”
Nelson said. While there he
began collecting statistics and
bizarre tales from his studies
and discussions with other stu-
dents. ‘“The book is full of those
things that an English teacher
always wants to tell his stu-
dents but has no time to,”’
Nelson said. He began organiz-
ing his data five years ago. Nel-
son insists the book :is not a
scholarly work, though it does
represent a great deal of re-
search.

The book is divided into
sections which examine Ameri-
can literature from a variety of
angles. For example, ane chap-
ter entitled ‘“‘Banned in Boston,
and Elsewhere” inspects cen-
sorship through the ages. In

' this section one finds that the

Bible was almost banned in
1833 because of its profanity,
and that Catcher in the Rye by
J.D. Salinger is the censor’s
favorite book. Salinger’s book
has been banned somewhere
every year since it was first
published in 1955.

Another chapter entitled‘‘Co-
llector’s Items” lists rare publi-
cations. Some works have part-
icular anecdotes attached. One
bizarre tale revolves around

Paradise Crater by Philip Wylie
published in 1945. In this book
World War II is still being
fought in 1965, and there is spe-
cific mention of a uranium en-
riched A-bomb. Because no one
was supposed to know such
devices existed in 1945, Wylie
was arested by the FBI and his
work withheld from publication
until after Hiroshima was bom-
bed.

Perhaps one of the oddest
sections of the Almanac deals
with Pulitzer Prize losers. This
section may raise serious ques-
tions about contemporary liter-
ary values. Take a look at the
losers of 1929: Faulkner’s Sar-
torus and The Sound and the
Fury, Wolfe’s Look Homeward,
Angel and Hemingway’s A
Farewell to Arms were all
denied the prize. The winner
was Laughing Boy, by an
author who remains obscure.

Still other chapters deal with
hoaxes, forgeries and thefts,
best sellers, and real people who
have been represented in Amer-
ican fiction. Some chapters are
pure statistics, such as who

wrote the most and earned the
least.

Nelson insists that every fact
or story in his almanac can be
found in the Davidson College
library with the help of the
interlibrary loan system. The
only problem he had in putting
his book together was time, and
he is quick to note that any stu-
dent in his freshman composi-
tion class could have put the
book together,“given a bit of
originality.’” Nelson was aided
by his ‘“‘pack-rat mentality” and
by his extensive knowledge of
American authors. He has read
at least three biographies on
every major author, and at least
one on every minor author.

“I did it for love and money,”’
Nelson said as he sat back in his
chair. Apparently the‘‘hot-
house atmosphere’ of the uni-
versity presses has driven Nel-
son to a bona fide publishing
company, and the move has
been worth it. The Book-of-the-
Month Club has selected the
book, published by William
Kaufmann, Inc., for its own
ranks.

ATO presents

Midwinters waffle
house

with fruit, ice cream, and more!
Live entertainment
_ Saturday night, January 31 1-3 AM
Tickets on sale at P.O. 10-11 AM _ or see our

signs around campus for dorm representatives
$2.50/person or $4.00/couple

