Preppy Authoress

Lisa Birnbach, Preppy Handbook editor,

hits college lecture circuit

Lisa Birnbach, editor of The Official Preppy Hand-

book, happily takes credit for the preppy fad now en-
joying its second year of supremacy on campus.
- Since her witty guide to the mores of the rich and
casual appeared in October, 1980, it has become not
only a bestseller, but a force moving style-conscious
students to buy Lacoste alligator shirts (preferably pink
this year), khaki pants, Sperry Topside shoes and any-
thing from the “prep mecca” of the L.L. Bean cata-
logue.

Now a year old, the Handbook has sold a pheno-
menal 1,193,000 copies, is in its 22™ printing and has
spawned Canadian and Japanese editions. :

More is coming, Workman Publishing, which pro-
duced the Handbook, is offering preppy desk diaries
and the like to help separate the “key” people from the
nerds and wonks.

But, oddly enough, under the Fair Island sweater,
penny loafers, argyle knee socks and camel corduroy
blazer is a different Lisa Birnbach: a very serious, 25-
year old liberal Jewish Democrat from New York who
is mostly, amused by the preppy phenomenon.:

“People still ask me ‘Was it a joke?’. ‘Was it sup-
posed to be serious?’” Birnabach says. “I still can’t be-
lieve that it’s that hard to figure out, There’s a differ-
ence between you preppies are ridiculous and us prep-
pies are ridiculous. That’s what we were trying to do.”

.. “I don’t like it when people want to restrict other
people from something. I want everybody to be prep-
py.”

So despite all the frivolity she has helped promote,
she is concerned about the student audiences she plays
to almost constantly. .

“When students want me to see how preppy they
are, they show me their Reagan-Bush stickers. That
doesn’t make me happy at all. I’m political and I’ve al-
ways been political, but I recognize that they didn’t in-
vite me to be Lisa Birnbach. They invited me to talk
about prep.”

Some of the time her views leak out. anyway : At
Duke, she couldn’t resist speaking out against the Nix-
‘on library proposed: forthe campus.  -

“Students aren’t political at all. I’m worried that
they aren’t getting enough out of their education.
When I’m up there I’m’ not trying to say, ‘Let’s all
throw up together.’ There is more to college than that. I
hope that most of them: know that all of this is just in
fun.”
Bimbach does realize that some do take it serious-
ly, perhaps as a symbol of personal caution.

12

“IT wish something else (other than prep) had be-
come a symbol of playing it safe, but preppy isn’t in-
compatable with that mood.”

“If the only choices you have are to major in busi-
ness or art history,” she explains, “one way to play it
safe is to dress preppy.”

It has also become a badge of identity. “In the six- .

ties you knew that anyone who had short hair was a fas-
cist and‘ voted for Nixon and anybody who had long
hair was okay. Now you.can have long hair and be a
fascist.”

The alternative is to dress preppy. It is “instant re-
spectability. I mean, you’re always dressed for a job
interview.”

Birnbach is not without her own prep school cre-

dentials. Daughter of a gem importer and a writer,

Birnbach went to Manhattan’s Lennox Schoo}, River-
dale Country School, Barnard College, and Brown
University, graduating in 1978 with an English degree.

It was at Brown when Bimmbach and classmate Jon-
athan Roberts started keeping notebooks of the foibles
of their fellow students, usually those of the upper
classes.

“We even had a list of preppy diseases,” she re-
calls. “There was a lot of things that didn’t make it into
the book.”

Sadly for pop culture historians, the notebooks
were lost, and Birnbach and company had to start from
scratch when Roberts proposed to Workman Publish-
ing to “do a book on preppies.” The publishing house
was initially uninterested, but in Spring, 1980, when
designer Ralph Lauren produced a line of Preppy cloth-
ing, Workman changed its mind.

Roberts convinced Birbach to edit the book be-
cause Roberts, a Workman staffer, was busy with other

Projects. They assembled it in. five months.

Birnbach “really thought the book would die a few
months after is came out,” when students waded into
the school year. “College students don’t spend much
time in the book stores after they buy their (text)
books,” she reasons. ‘

Instead ,the handbook took off, and Birnbach has
been touring colleges ever since.

‘Her first tour took her to the West and South, in-

cluding Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia, which
- she dubs “the preppiest college in the country.

“Other than Gordon Liddy, I think I’m hitting t' he
college lecture circuit the hardest,” she laughs.

On the circuit, she plays her high priestess of the
prep role to the hilt, wearing Top Drawer regalia and

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981

ATURES

Lisa Birnbach, editor of The Official Preppie Hand-

book has appeared at NC State, at Belmont Abbey,
and j in Charlotte during the last two weeks. A close

call.

presiding overy any kind of pro-preppy event the spon-
sors concoct.

At the University of Southern California, she
judged a Who’s Most Preppy Contest. Some entrants
brought golf carts and standing closets full of The
Right Clothes.

At UCLA, the winner squeezed a sailboat indoors
“along with his slaves.”

“Terrific excess,” Birnbach marvels. “It was just
great.”

Generally she does a 90-minute stand-up comedy
routine and then answers audience questions. Topics
range from prep: sex (‘‘a contradiction in terms”) to
drinking. She encourages students to “wear beer.”

“Beer is not only a beverage, but a fashion accesso-
ry,” she advises.

The ultimate in drinking acceptance is performing
the “technicolor yawn” — throwing up in public.

“I really love making people laugh,” she says.

“There really can’t be a sequel (to the book) as
such,” she adds with a laugh. “We say that nothing’s
changed since 1635, so there isn’t anything different.”
(The Boston Latin School, regarded as America’s orig-
inal preparatory school, was founded in 1635.)

- But things have changed for Birnbach. “Fhe main

‘difference is that I know that publishers will now take

more seriously other things I want to do.”

Froni the College Press Service.
