: ' re (
A ll D ix nie

we
‘‘. 4 nave i Wh si:
svvrsealllipsis se ee

Honor Code

_DAVIDSONIAN-

page 5

"Handling of

punishment

A. The accused shall be informed in writing of
the charges against him...

B. The accused-shall have adequate time to
prepare his case.

C. The accused shall not be required to take
any reviews or examinations between the time
he is charged. and two days after the verdict is
delivered. ~_

. D. The accused shall have the right to the ad-

vice.and assistance of the Defense Advisor.
E. The accused shall be assumed innocent un-
til proven guilty:by clear and convincing evi-
dence .presented to the Dean or the Honor
Council.

F. The accused shall have the right to call wit-
nesses, shall be allowed.to question and cross

_ examine witnesses, and shall have a fair op-

portunity to present his defense.

_ G. No person shall be placed in double j jeo-
_ pardy.

\H, The accused shall not be required to testify

‘against himself, but the Dean or the Honor.

Council may require. other students to menty
against him. —
I. The accused shall not suffer an: excessive

penalty.
J. No evidence obtained in violation of the
right of privacy shall be admitted. aN,

_K. No pressure shall be placed on the accused

to confess or incriminate himself.
L. The accused shall not be restrained in any

manner from the full exercise of his rights of -

The rights of the accused.

the Honor Council, one of which chairs
the screening committee.

The present senior members of the

Honor Council are chairman Steve Car-
ter, Sally Campbell, Jim Cheek, Rick
Gaines, Patti Long, Debbie Metzgar,
Howard Browne, Stokes Peebles, and
Joan Redding. Juniors on. the Council
are secretary True: Davis, James
Funsten, Carol Roche, Greg M°Fayden,
Lucy Marshall, and Danny ‘Wadill: So-
phomores on the Council are Katie Da-

genhart, Terry Kurtts, and Bobby

Silver.

The Chairman. of the Honor Coun-
cil runs the honor hearing and deter-
mines what evidence may or may not be
admitted...

In the hearing, the student solicitor

reads the cHarge, and'the accused either.

admits or does not admit to it. If the ac-

cused admits to the charge, he may.

‘make a statement asking for mitigation
of the sanction, and he may call witnes-

-ses.The student solicitor may question
the guilty student’s: witnesses. He then.
recommends an appropriate - sanction
‘and calls witnesses of his own. ‘The
Council then decides which sanction to

impose.

of evidence to support the charge. Then
the accused answers to the evidence.
The solicitor then directs rebuttal evi-

dence, and the accused presents his re-
buttal evidence. The accused then.

“ otdinablly dither

TF id actieed dental aentebaté |
chargé, the solicitor directs presentation -.

makes his closing comments, and he is

followed by the solicitor. The court then -

confers and decides if therea ws a viola-
tion, and, if there was one, what sanc-
tions to. impose. The court informs the
accused orally of its action.

The Secretary of the Honor Coun-

cil does not vote. She prepares a digest
of the proceedings in case the accused ~
requests a review, and also in order to

record precedents. If the Honor Council
finds that no violation has occured, the
digest of the hearing is destroyed imme-
diately,

. If the accused is found guilty and

‘receives a sanction less severe than sus-

pension, the digest will be destroyed
five years after the final imposition of
the sanction. If the accused is found

guilty and receives a sanction of definite

or indefinite suspension, the digest will
be destroyed ten years after final i Hip
sition of the sanction.’ :

Disciplinary records are available.
éaiy to the student concerned, the dean |

of students, and the College president.
Sanctaions for honor violations are

Code of Responsibility violations grad-

uate from ‘an oral ‘or written warning _
through indefinite'suspension: .
If the accused pleaded guilty and.

feels that the sanction imposed is unfair,

or if the accused pleaded not guilty and
" feels that he, was unjustly sa Neh of a

violation or given an unfair :

“may appeal to the Review Board.

definite or: indefinite:
~ssuspension...Permissable sanctions for

appa?

The Review Board consists of five
people in all. There are three faculty
members of the board who serve stag-

gered three year terms and are electedto -

the board by the faculty. There are two
senior students who are. elected’ by. the
student body. Each year the Review
Board elects one of the faculty members
chairman, and elects one of the students
secretary. The current members. of the
Review Board are Chemistry Professor
H. Alden Bryan, Religion Professor
David Kaylor, Physics Professor Robert’
Manning, senior Eric Crum, and senior
Brent Hilleary.

The Review Board can. admit no
new evidence, but they may accept writ-
ten or oral arguments by the accused

student, the student ‘solicitors, or the .

dean upon their requests:
The Review Board restricts its in-
vestigation to the questions of “whether

there is clear and convincing evidence _
-in the record to. support the finding,”

and, “whether the trial was free of sub-
stantial error prejudicial to the person

charged under the prescribed proce-

. dure,” according to the Code of Disci-

‘ it finds error in the hearing prejudicial to

the accused, or it may easé the sanction
imposed, or it may uphold the sanction
imposed.

If the student has received a sanc-
tion of suspension upheld by the review
board, his final avenue of appeal is to
the College president, Dr. Samuel
Spencer. The president investigates on-

ly whether or not the sanction siposed

is appropriate.

Last year, there were nine students
involved in ten suspensions resulting
from Honor Code and Code of Respon-
sibility violations.

HISTORY OF PRESENT SYSTEM
The College’s present honor sys-

tem dates-back to 1 September, 1971,

when the Trustees.approved the Code of
Disciplinary. Procedure. According to
Registrar and former dean of studaents

Richard Burts, J. Dickson Phillips, a

member of the-Trustee Committee on
Campus Affairs, was responsible for re-
viewing the document. Dr. Burts said
the: Code. was composed largely by
Mike Carroll 68:

plinary. Procedure, section F part 5(b). According to: dean of. students Will
Three members of the Honor — Terry, the pa of Disciplinary Proce-
Board constitute a quorum for deciding dure was. the first pproject undertaken
on. the ‘appeal. If the accused pleaded _by a Trustee College Governance Com-
guilty, the review board may only actto _- mittee formed in the late 1960s, Dean
_ uphold or ease the sanction impoosed. If Terry said the Code was established to
the accused pleaded not guilty, the re- guarantee that’ all students, accused of
» view board may “reverse and dismiss | Honor Code or Code of Responsibility
fficient evi- _ violations would receive a fair hearing,
dence, or it may call for are—hearingif and would have the right of appeal.
