May 1, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

Athos Island monks livei inaworld of beauty and silence

Editor’s Note: John Siman, a junior, is
one of five students taking part in the
Classics Abroad Program this spring
term. The program includes a week of
free travel in Greece, during which time
Siman and sophomore Gene Griggs
visited Mount Athos, a secluded penin-
sula famous for its Greek Orthodox
monasteries.

Mount Athos (the name of both the
peninsula and the holy mountain at its
southern tip) has some autonomy from
Greece proper and is off limits to women
and children. Adult men must get
official permission to visit its mona-
steries. ,

Monday, March 23

It is difficult to reach Mount Athos.
Gene and I have been traveling nonstop
since we left Crete Saturday evening—
overnight by boat to Athens, all day
Sunday by train to Thessaloniki, and all
this morning by bus to Ouranopolis,
from where we catch the boat to Mount
Athos.

The boat sails only once a day between
Ouranopolis and Daphni, the port of
Athos, and provides the monks with
their only outside contact. About a
dozen visitors are making the trip to
Daphni today — all of them Greek except
for Gene and me.

A few monks are also aboard. Their
unkempt white beards make them look
older than they probably are. They wear
black robes and cylindrical black hats.
Their hair is knotted into buns. One
monk rolls a land tiller onto the boat.

As we sail southward along the
peninsula we see the Aegean encounter
sheer cliffs that suddenly yield thick
forests: blue becomes brown becomes
green. I think the best word to describe
any part of Greece is abrupt —never
does one see a gradual progression from
sea to woods or from plains to moun-
tains.

We dock at Daphni and go to Karyes,
the administrative center of Athos, to
present our papers to the police. A
surprisingly large force is stationed on
Athos, probably to safeguard the mon-
asteries’ treasures. In olden times pi-
rates frequently pillaged the monaste-
ries.

After a lunch of bean soup and bread
and water, we began hiking towards the
monastery Vatopedi on the eastern coast
of the peninsula. Again I am over-
whelmed by medieval imagery. Huge
withered oaks with hollow trunks line
the path. Occasionally we see moss-
covered stone fountains with indecipher-
able inscriptions. We carry letters of
introduction with us (which must be
presented to enter a monastery); they
are on yellow paper of almost parchment
quality and are folded into large enve-
lopes engraved with the double-headed
eagle of the Greek Orthodox Church.
Since we can only read our names on the
letters, we feel a bit like messengers in
an old fable who unwittingly deliver
sealed instructions for their own deaths.

We arrive at Vatopedi not long before
sunset —a crucial time on Athos, for all
monasteries lock their doors from sunset
to sunrise. Vatopedi is a sprawling
stucture—part fortress, part cathedral,
part village—but it houses only 20
monks. Each has his own separate
building and lives in isolation from his
colleagues.

The monks’ solitary tendencies do not
lessen their hospitality, however. At
dinner Gene and I are seated at a large

table and offered more than we can —

eat—bread, black olives, homemade
retsina wine, salad, rice, stewed fruit.
After dinner a monk gives us a large,
round loaf of bread to take with us the
next day. The loaf is still warm from the
oven. It must weigh four pounds. The
monk said the recipe is the monastery’s

specialty.

Three other visitors eat dinner with
us—an old man and two Greek students,
The students are Stadig, who speaks
English, and his friend Chris. Stadig is
studying classical philology and Chris
gymnastics; both plan to teach in Greek
high schools. They ask us to travel with
them.

Tuesday, March 24

A man who works at the monastery —
not a monk though—wakes us up
bringing demitasse cups of Greek coffee
on a silver platter. The man is perhaps
60 years old and well under five feet tall.
Normally, I feel uncomfortable among
Greeks (I am 6 feet 5 inches in a nation
where the average adult male cannot be
much taller than 5 feet 4 inches), but the
difference between his height and mine
works well in the Medieval context of
Vatopedi. I can think of him as a dwarf
courtier.

A monk invites Stadig, Chris, and us
to see the monastery’s church (its
cathilican, to be precise), which has the
dark, ostentatious interior characteristic
of Greek Orthodox Church. He leads us
behind the altar to show us the
monastery’s treasures—a gilded cross,
miniature Byzantine holy paintings, and
the putative remains of the finger of
John the Baptist, which is encased in a
silver mold of a finger.

After leaving Vatopedi, the four of us
hike to Pantocrator, where we meet two
more Greek students, one of whom
speaks English even better than Stadig.
When a monk shows us in, I take
advantage of my having two translators
and try to learn about him. Above all, I
want to know why someone would want
to become a monk. .

This monk is in his early 30’s and has
only lived on Athos for a few months. He
tells us he was a shipbuilder before he
became a monk, but he is hesitant to say
anything more about his past. He is,
however, eager to speak about Athos.
Pantocrator’s population of about two
dozen monks, is comparable in size to
that of most of the other 20-odd
functioning monasteries. I know that in
its heyday Athos claimed over 40
monasteries, each housing 1000 monks.
To see someone clinging to so vestigial
an institution makes me think of my
question again: Why become a monk
now—in this century?

We stay only an hour at Pantocrator
and arrive at Stavronikita a little after
lunchtime. Here I meet a monk who
speaks English—one of a very few on
Athos—so I eagerly begin to talk to him.
When I ask him what he did before
coming to the monastery, he flees my
presence. ;

An older monk—he has lived at

Stavronikita for 20 years —agrees to talk
with us. Stadig is my translator. When

‘the question of his past comes up the

monk refuses to answer. ‘‘That’s person-
al,”’ Stadig explains.

When the monk leaves our presence, I
ask Stadig if he thinks many of the
monks on Athos have criminal back-
grounds. ‘‘Some people say ‘this is so,
but I do not know if it is true.” I next
remind him of an effeminate monk who
served us dinner at.Vatopedi; this monk
repeatedly admired my hair (I have yet
to see another fair-haired person on
Athos). I ask him if he thinks many
monks are homosexual. Stadig smiles
and repeats my question in Greek to
Chris. Both laugh with a little embar-
rassment. “Yes,” Stadig says, “I a
many are so.’

We arrive at Iviron about two hours
before sunset and are immediately
directed into the cathilicon where:a
devotional service is in progress. Even
an empty Orthodox Church overwhelms
me; now I feel lost amidst the kissing of

holy portraits, chanting, crossing, and
genuflecting. It is easy to spot other
non-Greeks in such surroundings: I see
two Germans and introduce myself to
them after the service.

Christian Schramm wears round, wire-
rimmed glasses. He is a student of
architecture and makes it clear that he
has no interest in either monasticism or
Greek Orhodoxy. He is here to study the
monasteries as architectural works, per-
iod. Uwe Schramm hardly speaks,
possibly out of deference to his older
brother.

There are about a dozen visitors in all
at Iviron, most of them middle-aged, all
of them Greek except for Christian,
Uwe, Gene and me. A monk invites the
group into Iviron’s library to show us its
treasures. Among them is a huge Bible
with an ornate gold binding—a gift from
Peter the Great. Most of what he shows
us, however. are small, baroque-ish

§
a

hen

© MonASTERIES
© PoRT ciTlES
FRAP ITOL.

Friday, March 27

This is our last day on Athos. The
boat leavesi Daphni for Ouranopolis at
noon. Christian and Gene decide to catch
a boat to Daphni; Uwe and I walk. By
chance we meet Stadig and Chris. They
have indeed made a circuit of the
peninsula and are now heading back to
Daphni. I feel the trip is made complete
in some sense by having everyone
together at the end.

An Orthodox priest introduces him-
self to me in Daphni. He has a church in
California and is with another Cali-
fornian whom he wants me to meet. This
is John, a second-generation American
(his grandparents were Greek), well-
dressed, in his 20’s. He has come to
Athos to become a monk.

John explains that he lived a fat and
fast life-in California, but then one night

AEGEAN SEA

icons. ‘‘So much kitsch,”’ Christian
whispers to me.
Wednesday, March 25

We say good-bye to Stadig and Chris.
Since they are Greek citizens, they can
stay up to seven days on Athos; we can
stay only four. Stadig and Chris plan to
take advantage of their longer stay by
hiking the entire perimeter of the
peninsula, but Gene and I do not have
time to do so. Instead, we plan to cut
back across Athos to the western coast.
Christian and Uwe join us and offer us a
ride back to Thessaloniki when we
conclude our stay on Athos.

A boat takes us south from Daphni to
the monastery Dionysos.

For the first time on Athos we are
without a Greek to translate for us. We
communicate with the monks only in a
rudimentary fashion. We thank them
when they serve us dinner. We. thank
them when they show us to our room.
“Eucharisto,”’ we say. ‘‘Parakalo,”’ they
reply. We are stereotypical tourists now,
come to gape at the sights. We watch the
sun set over the Aegean. It is perhaps a
thousand foot drop from our balcony to.
the sea. We discuss politics. When the
stars come out they are the brightest I
ever seen them.

Thursday, March 26

In the morning we hike to Gregorios,
where we have lunch, and then to
Simonpetra. Gene agrees that we would
need rock-climbing equipment if the
trails were any steeper.

We attend a service in the cathilicon

after dinner and see a man—who we |

assume is a visitor—read from: an
orthodox holy book. We ask. Verom

‘about him afterwards. The man is a

novice monk; he has been at Simonpetra
for eight or nine months. Not until he
completes a year long apprenticeship will
he wear the black robes and cylindrical

he was struck with a religious vision. He
realized the shallowness of his hedonistic
ways and gave his life over to Christ. For
the past two years he has prepared for
the monastery: he has sold all his
belongings, forsaken wonien, and de-
voted his time to prayer and meditation.
Now he feels he is ready to enter a
monastery.

But why monasticism? Why not the
priesthood? A priest serves; he works to
save others, but the monk wants to save
only his own soul. John answers with
confidence. A monk’s purpose is to pray
for others. Each monk has a long list of
names, people for whom he prays every
night. By prayer monks protect those on
the outside. The power of prayer is so
great, John says, that without the
deyotion of monks the world would
collapse overnight.

John has’a dream of returning to
California one day and establishing a
Greek Orthodox monastery there, but he
will not be disappointed if he cannot
fulfill it. ‘‘My job is to pray. If Christ’s
will is for me to also build a monastery, I
will do that too.”

On the boat back to Ouranopolis I
meet two Greek men, also just conclud-

- ing a visit. One of them, a composer,

describes the monks with one term:
Pinte orn: They are all neurotic, every

.” His friend, a playwright and movie
producer who once studied math at
Columbia, is making a movie about a
monk who experiences a psychological
crisis when he leaves Athos on mon-
astery business. _

I tell them about John and his
ambition of founding an Orthodox
monastery in California. If he is success-
ful, we agree, he will surely be canon-
ized. We trade jokes about St. John of
California. This is the first time I've
laughed since I’ve been on Athos.
