Elizabeth Smiley.
053 10340434959
or 70566100.
Take your pick.

ke a number

What happens when people are digitized?

AST THURSDAY MORNING A GLANCE INTO MY |
usually-empty mailbox rewarded me with the:

thin shadow of a single, processed piece of
‘nak mail,” presumably, another Time-Life bookbag

- offer designed especially to fill up the large waste-
baskets near the post office exits. A second look how-

ever, revealed that this was no ordinary sample of ©

junkmail, but my new std Code” postal des-
ignation, Addressed to me, the “Postal Customer,”

_ the announcement drew. my most unlikely responses
of fear and anger — emotions whi ‘ich continued to re-
solve themselves’ into s ation
more controversial and maybe overworked concept
of social depet on in the U.S. Has it hit Da-

vidson, NC? With all due respect to the postal wokers
across the street (who are really nice guys), the unsus- .
pecting instigators of my criticisms, I wish to address _
i ts ah ars el

30

‘on that darger,

ization as it affects us here, éxploritig,; more. than any-
thing, my own reaction to Thursday’s news.

It is difficult to imagine that our society will ever
experience systematization of, for example, Hux-

* leyan proportions; enough impassioned humanists —

and Iredell Counties ~ — jcc to elicit o our essentially

tion ings ere norte of social-behavior. At the

same time it is naive to assume that we are any longer _
a society bui i

tification ‘Of the’ Ae

atch:w.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

photo by Erie Long 83

individual. ‘We have rel in-
: stead als a of. nee mpilati mn a

053:103404349591 1; tomy employers and the federal’
government I am 261190770; when I step into Ca-
-shion’s I become 70566100 and.892-6038; in fact —
and this is to carry my ‘illustration to its extreme — I
am even physically circumscribed in numerical com-
binations like:67, 130, 352536. Well, almost. My
mailing address is on lists for Random House books,
“Good Housekeeping Sweepstakes,” L.L. Bean and
countless other order catalogs which I don’t re-

~~ member ordering, but which supply me periodically
" with countless opportunities to subscribe. I am, in

short, something like a paint-by-number image con-
nected by computed banks across the nation — but a
faceless image distinguished by my placernent on
endless lists of account numbers. How then am I to
react when the U.S. Postal Service assigns me yet
another set of numerals to add to my resumé? My
fragmented personality cries out for relief.

son has hurled us farther into the world of
high technology. We now posses machinery
to assist us not only in the areas of administrative
function, but of academic pursuit as well. I want to.
state that I can both understand and appreciate the
benefits that a large portion of the college population
will derive from the availability of the Prime. The ob-
jectives: of these technological advancements for
production are increased efficiency, reduction of
cost, and elimination of human error. Yet I question
how many of the’ processes that make ‘Davidson edu-
cation and community life individual will be eventu-
ally incorporated into the network of computerized
economy. Larger universities (e.g. UNC —C, Van- _
derbilt, UG*) have already found it necessary to de-
sign applications for admission. of utmost simplicity
that can be processed quickly and in mass quantities.
We Davidsoniians are still awarded personal and con- |
scientious consideration in mariy stages of our ma-
triculation,- including admission, course’ selection,
major selection and graduation.
In.addtion, we are privilegéd to benefit from alib-
eral arts training with foci on the history of human

T he advent of the Prime computers at.David-

* emotional and intellectual development as well as on

‘the application of technological ‘skill-to contemporary

society. It seems that with our extensive educational
background we ought to:be that much:more aware of -
the imposing threats to the individual. in Atnefican so-
ciety through absorption i into mass erninichegy in the
name of éfficiency.

For now, ‘our minor postal: change i is perhips too
insignificant to causé alarm. And yet how many mi-
nor insignificant changes must accumulate’ ‘unat-
tended before the problem of de; ion —
even in Davidson — becomes: too large . to ignore?

-* Does the Davidson student face numerical definition

and the subsequent loss of individual identification?

ila-~ Finally, how long will it be before we allow high
_ technology to exploit the ‘personal ptiveleges that we

“Dow. enjoy? Questions, ‘perhaps, _ without ready
answers. But as for me — well, I’mcertainly going to

add may 2 ed re oad |

