Twin pianists to
perform Wednesday —

by Anne Goodwin ‘84

This coming Wednesday, 28 October, Richard and
John Coritiguglia will be playing the piano in Love

Auditorium at 8;15 pM. Senior Margaret Holt may.

know these two men:best as her uncles, but their fame
outside Davidson résts on their skill as duo-pianists.

The Contiguglias are identical twins. They began.
playing the piano together when they were five and:

gave-their first public performance together at the. age
of six. From there the brothers went on to study music
together t — their school yeas and four years at
Yale.

After their. ion n from. Yale, she duo studied
in London with 9a Myra Hess, a renowned British

pianist. Their London’ debut. in October. 1962 met ,

‘wit critica setae and their career. was launched.

#

8 ss

“: init ayeynony

The Contiguptias bie devoted. much ‘time to the
-. discovery and’ performance of. ‘Meglected or lost

masterpieces by such composers as,Bart6k and Liszt,
>. who ‘has been a:favorite of theirs since childhood. In _
; 1969: they discovered i in the British Museum over 100.
transcriptions of Liszt for two pianists.

After. ‘this. find, ‘they’ began’ to ‘search libraries,
musuem: archives, and. ‘old-musie stores all over the

“world for. copies of these out-of-print works, In 1975
the Liszt Society of Budapest, Hungary, awarded the —
Contiguglia ‘brothers ‘the Grand Prix for their

recording ‘of Liszt’ s ‘anscription < of Beethoven’ s

Z

Another fhagiintion for the oe has bina the

work of: the legendary pianist-composer. Pefcy —

Grainger. The, Contiguglia. brothers met. Grainger

’ and $2.00 at® the door.
Committee, which is sponsoring the concert, will

3
¥
f

Le So
¥
f

: Jee
a

Leaner
io

when he came to their home town to give a recital. At
the age of twelve, they were asked to perform a group
of two-piano works during the middle of the
program. Grainger was so impressed that he sent
‘ them a-pile of his two-piano music inscribed “to my
‘gifted colleagues. ..in tonal fellowship.” Grainger’s
work has’ remained a staple in the Contiguglias’ .
repertoire.

Tickets to. see-this duo, which Edward Tatnall
Canby .6f: Audio Magazine has called “the ‘most
profoundly musical pair of piano virtuosi of this
century,” are on sale at the Union Box Office. Tickets
for students, faculty; and staff are $1.00 in advance
The Cultural Events

also’be selling season tickets for their three shows.
These. passes will cost students $2.00.

DAYIDSONADY/ Ecidani?? OMAP ESRD ac
