Friday 25 September 1981

-DAVIDSONIAN

page 7

Nick Graham reviews

AI lan F For All Seasons; Oh God

“A Man For All Seles.

* Fine Films contintee their fall sea-
son this week with the film adaptation of
Robert Bolt’s much-feted stage-play A
Man For All Seasons which is showing
in Love Auditorium on Wednesday 30
September at 8.00 pm: The presence of
this feature on the schedule evidently
means that historical drama of this sort
enjoys a far higher regard in the United

States than in Britain. Back home one,

generally finds the BBC trotting out Re-
naissance extravaganza on Christmas
Day to an audience sated by the Queen’s
Speech and.a surfeit of cranberry sauce.
This should not necessarily detract from
the virtues of the film however; the most
remarkable of them being a superb per-
formance by Paul Schofield in the role
of the imperfect courtier of King Henry
VII, Sir (Saint if you’re Roman Catho-
lic) Thomas More.

The action hinges upon a conflict

of loyalties in More between his con-

‘science as a member. of the Catholic

church and his courtier’s ‘instinct. for
political survival at any price: The point’ ©

being that England’s rotund plenipoten-
tiary, in between disposing of wives,
_ writing ‘Greensleeves’, dissolving the
monasteries and generally behaving in
the way that English monarchs are ex-

pected to behave wishes to have himself .
declared the Supreme Governor of the.

Church in England. More, his Catholic
soul warning him that this usurpation of
the Pope’s power will eventually lead to

op ‘such unnatural excesses as free think-
‘ing, trade unions and creeping Presby-

terianism, naturally demurs and Henry
regretfully sends him to the chopping
block.

This makes for powerful political
drama, even when history is falsified —
as it must be for the sake of a watchable
film. Unfortunately, Bolt does.not real-
ly leave us to.make up our own minds

-about More’s character: and motives.

There is fuel enough here for the con-
ventional view that More was an honest
man ruined by a corrupt king and his
power-mad lackeys. Equally, with a
cursory knowledge of the historical si-
tuation, one can emerge from the film
convinced that Thomas was a self-seek-

_ing hypocrite with an eye for the main
~chance ultimately- unequipped for. the

realities of everyday political life in the
16" Century. There is a distinct aura of
whitewash about the way that he is por-
trayed: perhaps it is the fact that
‘Schofield manages to look insufferably

' ‘benign for most-of his time on screen.

‘Among an excellent supporting
cast are Susannah ‘York as More’s
daughter, who . numbers: among her

. Many charms Latin conversation, and

Keith Michel who conforms admirably
to the usual image of Henry as a dissi-

" pated loudmouth, The direction by Fred.

Zinneman portrays a suspiciously sani-
tised English Renaissance and provid-
ing one does not make the mistake of re-

_ garding it all as being the way it really

| du ic

‘Fuqua School
Of Business

A representative of the Fuqua School.
of Business will be on campus Thursday 1
October to discuss the Duke MBA Pro-
gram. Interested students further informa-
Soe Ry Coie ae eer ene

ae

_ was, theti the film is both charming and

conscience-stirring and should appeal to
a wider atidience than the inhabitants of
year Humes. -

-Tonight’s Pop Film is Oh God, a
comedy starring George Burns as a dis-

““tinetly senescent Supreme Being and
_ John Denver his latter day disciple who
* fishes for souls in a supermarket. One
thing inexplicably puzzling to an. En-

glishman’ is’ why © many: American

‘ churches should. choose to vilify the .

harmless Life-of Brian while M* Burns’s
nonagenarian antics apparently pass
muster: put it down to transatlantic ig-
norance of American ways if you will.

Those of you who regard it as God’s will
that American F-14s should shoot down
Libyan planes would however do well
to remember this. One of Colonel Qad-

dafi’s less publicised projects ‘is the
shooting of a film of the life of the
Prophet. Such is the reverence with

which Muhammed is regarded that no’

actor is actually permitted to imperson-
ate him on screen. The subject of this

particular biopic remains safely outside

shot throughout the film.

At the Visulite
During the late Sixties/early Sev-

‘enties a number of British film-makers

were producing features of high quality
and extreme political commitment. ‘I'he

finest of these was undoubtedly Win-

‘stanley, the historically accurate story

of a commune during the English Revo-

lution (also known.as the English Civil
War — apparently in American history
these events are not quite the same
thing). Showing at the Visulite from
Sunday to. Tuesday is Morgan! (English
subtitle A Suitable Case for Treament)
an early example of this movement, and
a very fine film too. Starring Vanessa
Redgraye during the early days of her

flirtation with revolutionary politics it

details the break-up of marriage in then-
contemporary. Britain. with. a. satirical
venom which is at once humourously
appealing and politically motivated — a
difficult balance: to strike, and one
which this feature manages commenda-
bly. As I recall, husband David Warner
moves out and takes'to living in a parked
car, Muttering various Trotskyite-Mes-
sianic delusions (“I’m waiting for the
ice-pick”). A rare charice to see a much-
neglected political film with some fine
playing. An added enticement is the fact
that it is in double-bill with Hal Ashby’s
black-comedy classic Harold and
Maude. If you're intending to see just
one half of this double-bill I recommend
that you make a night of it and stay for
