Editor

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, NC 28036

‘ To the Editor:

A proposal was made to the Council on Campus
and Religious Life on October 1, 1981 by Jane Alex-
anian, Kathy Kooken and Anne Rollins that one of
the two unused houses on Patterson Court (Richards
and Bailey) be opened as an all-girls eating club. This
house would begin operation in the fall of 1982 and if
approved would appear as a choice on the self-selec-
tion ballot .that the freshmen will receive in the
spring.

‘The basic need for the house arises from the fact
that Rusk House is unable to handle the large number

of women that want to eat in an all-girls establish- .

ment. Rusk is presently full to capacity serving 85
women, and 43 women are currently on the waiting
list opting to eat independently rather than join a co-
ed eating club.

A survey of the freshmen women found that
71% have an interest‘in joining the only all-girls
house, and there is no possible way that Rusk alone
can accomodate all the women interested in all-girl
dining. With two houses on Patterson Court available
to students this Administration are faced with an op-

portunity that they cannot afford to pass up. The -

women and men of the College need and deserve the
benefits that this new house will provide.

The proposal stated that 34% of the student body
is. female and yet women have one all-girls eating
house from which to choose, while the men have four
(PiKA, SAE, KA, Phi Delt). It is felt that another ail-
girls house would provide all those women who want
it the opportunity for interaction with other women. It
would also intprove the social opportunities for wom-
en on campus, since the house could hold mixers.and
would be a-forum that would enable co-eds to discuss

issues relevant to women today. The possible objec-
tion of adverse competition between this new house
and. Rusk was dispelled by a poll conducted among
Rusk members. The results were overwhelmingly
positive in support of a new all-girls house.

We, the presidents of Davidson’s eating houses
and fraternities see the opening of a new all-girls eat-
ing house as 4 necessity for the continuing social and
academic excellence of the school and feel that the
entire student body would benefit from this new
house. ‘We urge the Administration to approve this
proposal and offer Davidson co-eds the same social
opportunities available to their male counterparts.

Tim Lorenzen, Pres. IFC

Eric Crum, Pres. KA

Terry Wade, Pres. PiIKA

Rick Gaines, Pres. SAE

James Troutman, Pres. Fiji
Shannon Walters, Pres. Rusk
Sandra Davis, Pres. ETC

Ralph Taylor, Pres. SPE
Michael Iordano , Pres. Phi Delt
Keith Hearle, Pres. Emanon

To the Editor:

It would appear that M' Siman and the David-
sonian have a new toy that they just can’t seem to get
enough of. The ability to be professional and the utili-
zation of that ability are two different things. I am
speaking, of course, of the new computer and its am-
azing ability to make funky marks like * ,”, “ ,-and~ .

It’s. good to know that should the Davidsonian
have to codperate with Smithsonian on an article on
archeology, it will be able to join the a and the e in
true Latin fashion. However, I think that the pseudo-
intellectuals at the Davidsonian should know that it
has been a long time sincé réle was spelled with an ac-
cent circonflexe (pronounced siko"fléx).

Another thing — what does M‘ mean? Is that
suppused to be ‘M’ to the ‘r’ power? Is it the deriva-
tive of r M™' dM/ dx? One is reminded of a Lesher art
lecture. “And look at this word ‘Rev*.’ The ‘Rev’
part is very clear, but what’s this ‘d’ doing up here?
Was it included as an afterthought? Is ét observing the

view from above the word? Is the artist telling us to.
- read between the lines? Or is this a renegade ‘d’ from.

‘doddered” seeking refuge in “Reverend’?”

7
7

Come on, sefiors and sefioritas, I think I can say
sans géne that you’ve gone el loco on this. Sure it’s
creative, but it’s too much. Although I am working as
a writer under the zgis of the Davidsonian, and its ed-
itors are by far my literary afnés, I think I am fair in
saying that this outrageous style is not only irritating,
but it is stupid.

Just another plain-garcon,
Jeff Holland

P.S. Please print underlined characters in italics.
Thanks.

Notatall.A couple of suggestions though: try the in-
tegral of rM" ‘dr next time. We don’t underline or ita-
licize ‘Davidsonian’ here. And the accent goes over

~ the ‘S’ in Siman. Glad we could help. Ed".

To the Editor:

Recently I went on a Sunday morning walk
around the campus to enjoy the scenery. The leaves
and trees were beautiful, but the ground cover was
ugly. I’m not talking about the grass or flowers, just.
trash.. Affer a weekend some parts of this campus
look like a trash heap. People can still have a wild
weekend without having to throw trash around. Ob-
viously, some Davidson students have never learned
to pick up after themselves. Please take pride in your
campus and your country. When we leave here, there
will be no groundskeepers around to pick up our care-
less messes.

Karis Her nstein ’84

To the Editor: °
In regard to that profanely offensive
Davidsonian ad I keep seeing, ] am very interested to
know what religious affiliation those people align
themselves with. They look Protestant. I bet they are.
You can always tell a Protestant. But they might be
Catholic. Huh. There’s those primates in it. Yeah,
they look kinda Catholic. Well, wh. ever they are. I
don't like it. Not one damn bit. No sir.
. Hebraic cultist

Enough is enough. No more. subscription letters. We
don't care if you dislike the ads, we just. want you to
get your parents on the circulation list. Fair enough.

Fe Harvard Kennedy School of Government a ~ -
coe bs looking for future leaders in public affairs. . Saye,

Learn about Harvard’s

masters programs in  ~=—_:

<0 public policy, public administration, and city & =. a
| regional planning.

MEET: Margaret Hamilton, assistant dean for admissions, Harvard School of Government yes

DATE: 28 October, 9 to 11:30 am

FOR: Career seminar on graduate management for public sector careers
CONTACT: Susie Summers, Careers Office, Davidson College, 892-2000.

Whar VER Ft

GAVIDSONIANS Friddy 25: 0M I6OP

All students, all majors, all years invited.
