Mirrors and M* Reagan

he political and economic history of the last
two years can be acidly summarized ‘in the
answer to one question. It was asked in January
980 during the first Republican debate of the cam-
vaign: “How can any President. curb inflation, cut

axes, increase defense spending and balance the -

widget all at the same time?”

John Anderson gave an answer that has survived to
iaunt the Reagan Administration: sa s very simple.
fou do it with mirrors.” 4

Now the mirrors have broken.

However contrite David Stockman is, his revela-
ion in the Atlantic Monthly prove the accuracy of the
Anderson insight. The metaphors. have changed; M’

- tockman speaks of Trojan horses and greedy hogs.
-3ut the meaning is the same:

The Administration has known for montha that its

sconomic policy cannot work — but has pretended to

he public that it could: Now the public knows the truth.

-@0, and with any sort of luck, M' Reagan will be
“‘orced to face his problem.
The problem is not what to do about David-Stock-
- man, damaged credibility and all. That is minor com-
yared to the real problem: what the President should do

from the New York Times

about his economic program. Will the Administration

finally devise a program that responds to the truth or -

political pretense?

There is still time, but not much. The greatsest risk
is when the currént recession ends — probably around
mid-1982 — fiscal and monetary policy will again be
on acollision course. That could usher in another stunt-

_ ed recovery and yet another Reagan recession.

That’s a grim scenario, but not far-fetched. The
Administra- tion has, wisely, abandoned trying to bal-

ance the budget by 1984. But it is not that the deficit -

will shrink even by then. If-this prospect does not im-,
prove by the time the recession ends, the Federal Re-

* ‘serve Boatd will weigh in again with high interest rates

to beat inflation back — and cut the recovery short.
_The only way out for M" Reagan t the way M’ Stock-

_ man has urged on him for months: get serious about the

deficit.
- ‘The place to bepini is ‘Aaensh. which the Budget Di-
rector thinks may yield $30 billion in waste. The case

What Stockman really said

ou might look at “The Education of David
Stockman,” as recounted by William Greider
in The Atlantic Monthly, as a drama in three
Act I opens on an earnest and likable young man of
undisputed ability. He is testing his theory of what the
world ought to be against the reality of what is. David

. Stockman begins his career as OMB director by asking
“his agency’s forecasting model to tell him what the
Reagan economic: plan will mean for the federal

budget. The model tells him.the obvious: the big tax —

cuts and defense increases that the plan calls for will
stimulate the economy — but not nearly enough to
close the yawning revenue gap. Stockman fiddles with
the model a bit to take account of the “expectational”
effect of the plan on inflation and productivity. That

helps a little, but huge deficits remain. The deficits are —

so large that closing them might require dimantling all
federal non-defense activities except Social Security,
veterans’ programs and a few other essentials.
Stockman does. not disguise this fact either in his
discussions within the administration or in the docu-
ments he prepares for Congress. He. puts t~ -ether a
package of spending reductions that total about $50 bil-
lion by the next fiscal year. The large additional cuts
needed to balance the 1984 budget are shown in the
document as “additional savings to be proposed” — the

“magic asterisks,” as.S“" Howard Baker later Gescribes .

them.

So far so good. One could certainly question the ro-
sy forecast — and wonder what would happen if it
didn’t come true. But everything is clearly labeled.

Jodie T. Allen
from the Washington Post

’ Stockman hopes that the harshness of the future cuts

can be softened by curbing defense spending and scal-
ing back the tax cut. And he tries, without any success,
to get administration agreement to balance the package
by closing some tax loopholes and cutting a few subsi-
dies for the well-off.

Stockman’s second-act role is less appealing. The
sealing of the budget and tax packages is in full swing.
In the heat of the battle over the budget cuts — and the
euphoria of greed over the much larger tax cuts — few
congressmen remember the problem of the “magic as-
terisks.” Stockman does not remind Congress that, in
voting for defense increases and tax cuts, it is also vot-

_ing for either huge non-defense budget cuts or gigantic

deficits. .

Stockman begins to make deals he knows he can’t
honor in the future. A new sort of discrepancy creeps
into the numbers — one.that’s much harder to spot. It

comes’ from small changes in what. you assume the _

world would look like if you don’t change a policy —
and how it would behave if you do. Or from putting ar-
tificial caps on out-year spending that you know won’t
be sustainable when the time comes‘to apply them. Or

- shoving off the full impact of tax cuts into future years.

ys AVIDSONIAN 7 Friday 11 December 1981

- tions.’

has not been made for spending $20, $30 or $40 billion
on the B—1 bomber. In the civilian area, the President
will have to face up to trimming the growth of entitle-

ment programs, particularly Social Security and Feder-

al pension plans.
Cutting spending alone won’t be enough. Swal-

' lowing his pride, the President needs to plan now for

new taxes once the recession ends, starting with new
excise taxes on cigarettes and alcohol; user fees for
those who benefit from harbors, waterways, airports
and irrigation projects; a gasoline tax to encourage con-
servation.

| He could also pull off his shelf a plan to close $20
billion of tax “loopholes” that. M‘ Stockman prepared

. earlier this year. What better time to chip away at un-

justified and iefficient tax susides like the oil-depletion
allowance and at least some part of the home—mortgage
interest deduction?

David Stockman’s story demonstrates that such
ideas are not welcome at the White House. M" Reagan

clings, or pretends.to cling, to the economic theory that

lowering taxes is enough to raise the tide, and all the
boats. But now the tide is out — and so is the truth.

Stockman accuses the other side of gimmickry, but
both sides are fudging.

Also lost in the horse-trading are the remnants of
the attempts to balance losses for the poor with some
measure of loss to thé rich. But that’s the breaks of the .
game and, in Act II, the game is all.

As Act III opens, the applause is still deafening,
but Stockman’s inner voices of doubt are heard again.
He sees that the budget package has been tainted by the
power of special interests. The never-solved problem
of the 1984 deficit has been made much worse by the
failure of the ill-conceived Social Security cuts. The
tax bill is rolling toward. passage, but it is picking up
new and expensive encrustationsat every turn. Wall
Street is unimpressed,‘ and the economy is softening-
under the impact of high interest rates. When Stock--
man’s defense control plan loses out withion the ad-
ministration, all real hope of balancing the budget is

gone. Stockman goes before the House Budget Com-

ittee and tells them the bad news — without aste-
risks.

This is not a story of personal duplicity. Stock-
man’s behavior is not always admirable. It is, howev-
er, always understandable — at least to anyone who
has played the policy game with a measure of honesty
and self-awareness. Through it all, .Greider notes,
“Stockman kept asking and answering the right ques-
* Maybe not soon enough, maybe not loud
enough. But they were the right questions, and they
still need better answers. What is sullied by the story is
not the integrity of David Stockman, but the reputation
of an economic program that never did add up. -
