Randy Nelson’s new book

Trivia from American literature that you'll want to read

D’ Randy Nelson’ s The Alamac of Aimerican Let-
ters (William Kaufman Inc. Publishers) is a collec-
tion of hoaxes, frauds, anecdotes, and trivia behind
the great names of American literature. Featured al-
so in D’ Nelson’s funny books are “less knowns” and
unknowns; those. “‘would-have-beens” passed over
by literary posterity without so much asa footnote.
Here they all are in D’ Nelson’ s amusing potpourri.

Horace Liveright and Harry Kemp. Some people

are born to lose, and then there are a few who have to. -

work at it. Such a one was Horace Liveright, partner
in the firm of Boni & Liveright in the 1920s anda man

for all seasons up to about 1930. He took extravagant
_ chances with some of the titles he published; and"
when a book succeeded, he threw extravagant par-

ties. One result, to nobody’s. surprise but Horace’s,

was a cash-flow problem: the flow in was steady

enough, but the flow out was a riptide. To make mat-

ters worse, Horace was a sucker.for good stories —
‘not the kind written for literary magazines, ‘but the

"kind told by.con artists. That's how he got involved
with HarryKemp. 4

32,

In 1920 Kemp approached Liveright for the first ...
time. His plot began with a wife named Dreamy who -

had tuberculosis; she was dying, sobbed Kemp, and
needed the comfort of a sanitarium for. her: last

months. The cupboard being bare, he thought Horace —
might advance him a few hundred dollars on a book

of poems, which incidentally hadn’t been written yet
because, Kemp had been so depressed lately. As soon

as Dreamy passed to her reward though, he would —

finish the manuscript and deliver it post haste to Boni
& Liveright. And, oh yes, he was stire the. book

would be'a money-maker. For this tale alone Kemp Sel
made more money than for any of his earlier literary’
“enterprises: Liveright gave him $1,200 for a “novel,”

knowing that the company treasurer would lever ap-

now,, unexpected events: Dreamy died, or else some-
how removed from the scene; and: Harry Kemp
proved to be an honest man.after all: the author pres-
erited his benefactor with a hefty manuscript which
turned out to be the autobiographical novel that Ho-
race had predicted in the ‘fisrt place. While the pub-
lisher himself seemed gratified, it would be more ac-

curate to say that his colleagues were astounded: no

one but Horace Live ‘ had expected a book from
the venture, The work as published immediately as

- Tramping on Life and astonished the trade insiders by
actually making money, just as Kemp had fortold. It
- made. money, that is to say, for everyone except Live-
right. Inthe: weeks following publication the author
~~ took to comfortable living, and the publisher t took to
prove that amount of money for poetry. A year later
- Kemp showed up again, this time with even worse _
news: Dreamy vas still alive. Could Horace spare a

-overspending his advertising budget: on. what could
~ have been‘a quick profit of $10, 000 the company bar-
he Tey managed: to recover costs. But by then the firm
io ~ was well into Horace’ 's ‘next dae He was never-

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981
