— IMAC by the Doughboys & the Slimshafts she

Ed eyes Richards & Bailey

Recently it has come. to the at-
tention of these columnists that a de-
bate is currently going on in the Da-
vidson anarchy to decide what group
to house in the old freshman eating
houses. The Slimshafts have learned
that the following proposals have al-
ready been made:

[1] Athletic Director and varsi-
ty Football Coach Ed Farrell has pro-
posed to build an indoor practice
field for his football team. It has
been argued by critics that the struc-
ture is somewhat small, but Farrell
assures everyone that the Davidson
offense will never go further than
twenty yards on any particular play.
Kickers Wayne Paymer and Gary
Sims both questioned the feasibility
of a field goal attempt inside the
quaint structure, but Ed put all fears
to rest when he responded, “Why

kick a field goal when we can run the —
ball on the fourth down?”

2) Jane Alexanian and Kathy

Kooken, both Davidson sopho-

mores, have submitted a joint prop-

osal to begin a charm school for ado- .

‘lescent and college students. The
school will be open to all Davidson

coeds who can prove they have not .

entered puberty and have attended at
least one Hampden-Sydney mixer.

3) A group of varsity football
players, spearheaded by team leader
Mickey Dillon, have proposed to
build a Dixie Electric Company on
the Davidson campus. Dillon and
sidekick _Doonesberry argued to
Dean Terry that the gas cost into

Ns SOR ioe aa at

2 ee ee ee a ee ae ff &
4 ZN @ tare? be é & t Ne pT E i |

Well, two weeks ago we prom- Charlotte i is rapidly dwindling their purchase of twelve other taco salads.
ised an interesting article about at- scholarship money. When. asked
tractive Davidson girls and now that _ about the situation Wildcat Jeff Kane 6)Sig Ep president Ralph Tay-.
that is finished, let's goto the real ar- replied, “I'd just as soon be off cam- lor has proposed that the old eating
ticle. pus myself.” house be used for 1981-82 Sig Ep.

After careful recalculation, we house meetings. The expected two -
must admit we made an omission in 4) Coach Farrell has issued a se- hundred and forty-six pledges pose a
our original DB & SS: Flickerball ‘cond proposal. which should interest . Serious crowd control problem for _
Top Seven. It now. appears obvious . all. Davidson. students. Ed-has sug- Davidson authorities. It has been —
that Deep Throw certainly deserves gested moving the Davidson Union * learned that Dean Will Terry may fa-
very little attention in the column. _ down into-one of the new houses: He Vor this proposal as he commented
This team is anchored by Davidson’s — would then move the books currently _ recently, “I see no reason why Sig
chief assault victim, Allen-“Please inside E. H. Little Library back into Ep.cannot make a comeback and be-
call me Beaver” Griffin. Griffinhas' the Park. Library building. This come a viable mob on the Davidson
installed the “Run and Shoot” of- move would leave E. H. Little open Campus.”
fense this year withthe help oftwoof —_ for the new varsity weight room to be
Davidson’s foremost non-athletes, installed in 1982. Hoping students _ 7) The seventh and final prop-
Andy Brown and Bob Trobitch. won’t misunderstand his motives,  °Sal for inhabiting the old freshman

Brown, Davidson’s answer to Marv
Throneberry, will talk at length to
anyone willing to listen about his
team. Also, we must quickly men-

- Farrell assures ‘all Davidson exercise

‘As acting athletic director Farrell can ©

tion the team’s defensive. stalwart, —

Rusty “Forehead” Colechia.

In other sports, the rugby. team
struck up their first home game this
past weekend, losing by a narrow
margin. Leaving the field in dire dis-

appointment, in not being able to:

claim. the game ball, opponents

(Wake Forest) in a show of good’

faith donated the ball to Davidson’s

moved on to “Tom’s Place” to par-
take in post-game refreshments lead

own Brian Whitmire. Ruggers

by the “slumping Sophomore trio” -

‘Rives “f--- o--” Balcom, Andrea

“I’m not drunk just incoherent” Gey-
er and Elizabeth “the. Rock” Cole-
man. The procession toured David-
son’s campus, then,on to Wake
Forest where Balcom and Geyer

buffs that he will leave open the typ-
ing room for “breather workouts.”

support the cost of moving the books -

merely by asking all “minor” sports
to cut back exorbitant expenses, and

by asking each. player to bring his old

high school uniform for Davidson

5) Two area restaurants, Gus’s

and Péregtine House, have mutually -

proposed a new restaurant to: be
known as Peregus’s. The restaurant
will feature free food and promises
to pay those students who will buy
beer from them. Delivery will be
free and Peregus’s employees will
gladly pour the beverages down the

throats of those incapable of feeding

demonstrated advanced techniques

in scrumming down.

themselves. Dean Terry has voiced:

some,concern. over the popularity of
this restaurant, as he has noticed that
the Lone Star Restaurant is still giv-
ing away one free taco salad with the

eating houses has been voiced by

DCF. president Alex McCallie.
When asked why DCF had such a
great need for a segregated eating
house he responded,“we pride our-

selves. on creating an ‘organization.
for the needy. We plan to fund it with.

fines collected from worshippers of ©.

Baal (alias: Electric Forks), but most
importantly, we will form an elitist
eating facility, potentially Utopian,

allowing students to escape from the _
real world of the Davidson College .
community.” When asked about the

problem of seating half the student
body Alex stated, “That shouldn’t be
a problem seeing that most ‘members
fast frequently. ”

Next week: Balcom and Geyer re-
turn form Wake Forest, Charlie Sla-
gle fasts with DCF, and Doughboys
return from an honor code sentence

_ of one week due to plagiarism. of--

humorous columns from “World

Book Encyclopedia.”

Walker College of Business
ie testa rane University

&

A representative of the Walker College of Business will be on campus Monday 2. November.to

discuss graduate study opportunities. Programs include an MBA and specialized masters —
. programs in accounting, economics, and business education. All programs are fully accreditied by
the AACSB. Financial aid is. available for — Students.

“For more information contact the Careers Office i in the basement of the Union.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16Octobér 1981-

