Emergency rescue in trouble

by Mahmoud Sayani bie

‘Student: ‘interest: and activity in the Davidson -

Emergency Rescue Service (DERS) has been waning
in the past two years: according to squad chief, senior

Skip Brown, and Squad. Advisor, ‘Campus Police.
Sergeant Harotd Cook. Skip. hopes to rejuvenate the ©

service this: year‘and ‘increase its activities. DERS
now has only four qualified: Emergency Medical
Technicians (EMT) and four: volunteers on its squad.

Skip and Sergeant Cook said DERS needs more

student members — volunteers who would take an
EMT course ‘and who would be ready to respond to
calls to apply their training to medical emergencies
oncampus. "

Sergeant Cook i is the most experienced EMT on
campus, and he’ was instrumental in the founding: of
DERS in 1978. He said serving on. the squad" has

much to offer and “what I get out of it is helping:

people — both the squad members and the injured.”
Skip has twelve new students signed up to join
DERS but needs at least. fifteen ‘before Central
_ Piedmont Community College will agree to give an
EMT course here at Davidson. He hopes to have

enough students to hold a course this winter.
DERS. operates under the. authoority of the

~ College: Infirmary. The Infirmary: is in charge of all:

médical. emergencies involving Davidson students
ans. faculty. A staff doctor is at the infirmary from
1:00 to 3:00 pm every day. Staff Doctors Ronald
Hunt, William Williams, and David Spees are.also on
call at their office’on’ Main Street near the: tailroad

bridge during. regular, office hours, 8:30 Am to 5:00
PM. They carry a paging beeper on arotating schedule

for the rest of the day and‘night.A doctor can be
reached after office hours at 332-4698.

When .a student calls the Infirmary about a
medical emergency, thé infirmary pages the two
EMTs on duty, and they go to the accident with a

‘comprehensive. first aid kit. The EMTs assess the »

situation and render whatever first aid is necessary.
“EMTs are trained to handle. almost everything.”
Skip said, “and DERS has all the equipment EMTs
are qualified to operate.” Meanwhile, the Infirmary

contacts the doctor on duty.

The North Mecklenburg Ambulance Service

-(NMAS) provides. ambulance service if it is needed.

Both, D'. Hunt and Sergeant Cook complimented

NMAS on its immediate response to calls from the
College.“NMAS usually takes about 2 to 5 minutes to
get to the scene, Cook said, and “the men are very
well-trained.”. An ambulance trip costs $70.

Patients are: taken ‘to Huntersville Hospital or in
case of a more serious emergency. to Presbyterian or

~ Memorial Hospital in Charlotte.

The College Infirmary has a car that is used: in

minor emergencies for transportation to Charlotte.

“The caris at least ten years old and was donated last
year by Zach Long. It has’ been worked on a few. times

-and and is supposed to be in working condition now.”

according to Infirmary nurse Avon Goodson.

‘DERS handled about 200 to 250 cases in its peak
year, 1979, according to Sergeant Cook. Skip said
last week the EMTs had tour calls. Besides medical
emergencies, DERS is responsible for helping out at
civil emergencies, such as bomb threats, fire alarms.
and nuclear accidents.

DERS meets at the police building near the
laundry every Sunday at 5:00 pM to discuss calls
during the past week and to hold training sessions for
new members. All interested students are invited to
come by this Sunday.

‘by Roy Fuller ‘83

“Everywhere ugliness has its beautiful as-
pets.’
— Henri-de Toulouse-Lautrec

After a week of nominating and a week of

been elected the “Ugliest People on Campus.”
Frank and Scott received their coveted ti-
tles by “raising” the most money for the Cystic
Fibrosis Foundation. Ninety percent of the mo-
ney donated during the week-long election was
placed. in the. jars bearing the co-UPOCs’
names. Along with their titles, Frank and Scott
recéived a keg, a year’s subscription to Ugli-
man’s Quarterly, and the opportunity to repre-
sent their school in further competition. (The
keg was donated by Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen.) If
for any reason Frank and Scott cannot fulfill
_ their duties, the first runner-up, junior Eric
Fichtner, will. replace them. Eric won last
year’s Ugliest Person on Campus balloting.
The Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity
sponsored the fund-raiser. They raised a total of

tion. The amount was down from $200 collect-

making a donation should contact junior Jim

-  Hooten: (6157) or junior Roy Fuller (-6431).
APO hopes to hold. the next election in the
spring. A “Best Dressed Person on Campus”
election may be held at that time.

voting, the: results have been tallied: Senior
Frank Myers-and sophomore Scott. Otto have

$120 dollars’ for the Cystic Fibrosis Founda- .

ed during the last election. Anyone interested’ in’

_ Ugly mugs

Contest funds go to cystic fibrosis

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981.

