day’s meet with archrival Duke. In fact,
Randy’ s resurrection to racihg | form was
one of the few bright spots in the David-
son 18 — 41 loss at Duke last Saturday.
Randy Jed a strong Davidson surge

early ‘in the race, not quite in line with —

the overconfident Blue Devils’ plans.
Randy forced top runner Scott Jones off
the pace an helped the Cats break up the
formidable Duke “pack.”Randy presed
on, finishing third overall (28:11) on the
hilly 5% mile course. He commented
that the duke runners were “fading
late in the race” but he held on using
his downhill momentum to carry him
past all but the top two, who may not
have lasted another hundred yards.
The rest of the Davidson top
five, Frank Ivey, Danny Armistead,
Jack Smith, and Garry Sullivan could
not hold Randy’s aggressive pace,

‘ performance and leadership on the

race, and commented that the Cats
just might catch Duke in October’s
state meet. Coach Martin is keying on
the Southern Conference meet and is

looking to take Randy to the NCAA

regional. meet. The last time a David-
son athlete qualified for that was
1978.

~ The Davidson thinclads dropped
to 0 — 3 on the season and are ripe for
wins tomorrow as they take on Lynch-
burg College and Eastern Mennonite
College on the tough Lynchburg
course.
_ Sophomore Tamara Foreman and
freshman Sarah Patterson paced the Da-
vidson College women’s cross-country
team to an easy 22 — 33 victory over
Duke last Saturday. The Wildcat tan-
dem finished 1 — 2 with times of 21:10

Mooresville-on-Avon

The Meeting Place
Open for Sunday lunch

with choice of five entrées, two.
vegetables, salad, and bread for $6.95

Serving four days the week —

Thursday through Saturday
from 5.30 to 10.00

Sunday from 11.30 a.m. to 10.00. p.m,,

Marian . Hill (24:36), freshmen Jane

_ Wébb (22:58), and Elizabeth Hargrove

(22:59) rounded out Davidson’s top
five, finishing fourth, seventh, and
eighth.

Friday 25 September 1981 ; age 11

facculdgnunts DAVIDSONIAN _ oa

o. k
Foreman and Patterson pace women runners

by John:Hoots ’82 - .- and Duke steneit scoking runners be- and 21:12 over the hilly 5000 meter Coach Sterling Martin cited superb
No one knew exactly when senior ‘eoppeay Fisety, sent Frank tir crediee the course. talent and hard work as the Lady Cats
Randy McManus was going to get back lopsided score. Both Tamara. and Sarah looked major assets and praised the poise of the
into racing form, but the “Old man” left += + Coach Sterling Martin was no- _ strong, crossing the finish line well freshmen in their first intercollegiate
. no doubts-in anyone’s mind after Satur- thing short of ecstatic about Randy’s ahead of Duke’s top harrier. Junior meet. Martin is already eyeing the state

meet and is looking toward berths for
his top runners in the NCAA regionals
in November. First, however, the 1 — 0
girls must get past tough Lynchburg
College in an away meet this weekend.

High Point deals
Davidson an eye-opener

by Jim Northrup 82

High Point defeated Davidson last
Tuesday 3 — 1 in the first game of the
Cats’ regular field hockey season.

“We played flat, and they took ad-
vantage of our mistakes,” explained
Coach Mayes. “We controlled the ball
for most of the game, but not when we
needed it.” High Point scored first in the
middle of the first half. Mavin Martin
tied the game up in the middle of the se-
cond half with an assist from junior
Amy Crittenberger. High Point went on
to score twice more.

The Cats won two and lost one ina
series of three scrimmages played last
Saturday. In the second of the three, Da-
vidson beat High Point 3 — 1. Returning
sophomore Mavin Martin scored one;
freshman Sarah Hart sént the ball in
twice. ““We capitalized on our opportun-
ities in that game,” Mayes pointed out.

 The’second win of the day was a
hard-fought 3 — 2 victory_over the Uni-
versity of Richmond. The game was
tied up 1 — 1 at the end of regulation,

Crittenberger scoring for “Davidson:
The scrimmage went into a “stroke-off”
rather than going into overtime, with
Crittenberger and Mebane Atwood
scoring two for Davidson. “We’re real
pleased with that win,” Mayes added.
“We'll have to play them again in the re-
gionals.”

Davidson lost to Pfeifer, an NCIA
team (Davidson plays AIAW), 5 - 0.
“We can beat Pfeifer,” Mayes said,
“We just couldn’t this time. I’ve had to
experiment with putting different girls
into different positions. We’ll be more
ready to play them when they come here
again.” (October 8).

Goalie and co-captain Cathy Mo-
rell added, “We played with lots of en-
thusiasm and with a positive attitude.
Player-for-player I see a lot of skill, and
it’s beginning to click for us now as a
team.”

Davidson goes to Clemson on
Monday and plays its first regular sea-
son home game on Thursday against
Appalachian at 4:00. Both should be
good games.

Rhythm and Blues!
Saturday night

Middle of Patterson Court

10 Kegs 8:00 — 12:00

‘As an advocate of reason,
egoism and capitalism,
I seek to reach the men of
the intellect- wherever such
may still be found”
Ayn Rand

Dr. Leonard Peikoff offers a

12 lecture course on Ayn Rand's
philosophy, Objectivism.

Miss Rand participates in most
of the question periods. Recorded

live in New York, this course
will soon be given on tape in this

area. Please call for details.
A free descriptive brochure is
available on request.

contact —__——

Bob Klein
Box 3046 892-8171.

