Citadel romps

Cadets outnian Wildcat footballers

by Steve Soud ‘84

“Some days you play poorly and beat yourself.
Other days you play well and beat the other guys.
Then, about once or twice a season, come the days
when you play well and still wind up on the short end
of the stick. Such was last Saturday, when the foot-
ball team lost to the Citadel, 23 — 3.

“Their personnel is better than ours,” admitted
Head Coach Ed Farrell. “Both teams were, psycho-
logically prepared, but that’ s when better talent will
win the game.’

If a finger could be pointed at one particular cul-
prit, it would be the ever-present, ever-popular tur-
nover. The Cats turned the ball over five times (three
interceptions, two fumbles), and the Bulldogs con-
verted one into a field goal and another into a touch-
down: Sound familiar? Try the losses to Newberry
and Bucknell, where turnovers proved very costly.
This game, however, the turnovers weren’t so much
in the team beatingitself as it was solid defensive play
by the Citadel.

Things started off well for the Cats. On their first
drive they went 43 yards on ten plays, and Wayne
Paymer nailed the 22-yard field goal attempt. From
that point on it was all elementary.

The Citadel’s second possession was an over-
whelming sucess as they showcased star running
back Danny Miller. Miller gained 52 yards of the 63-
yard drive that led to a Bulldog touchdown en route to
his 155-yard afternoon. The point after attempt was
wide right, and the Citadel led, 6 — 3.

The Bulldogs continued to dominate the game’s
tempo as they forced a Davidson punt, and Miller was
again the key when the offense took over. This time
he dashed 45 yards into the end zone, and after a suc-
cessful Citadel PAT, the Dogs led, 13 - 3.

' Then the turnovers came into account. Although
Bill Price picked off a Bulldog pass, his play was neu-
tralized when the offense fumbled the ball away on
the Wildcat 32. The defense was staunch, holding the
4 Dogs to a scant twelve yards in seven plays, but they
were in field goal range and capitalized to.take a 16 —
3 lead. ~

Davidson’s next shot at offense had gone only
two yards when a Brian Whitmire pass was picked off

You've

in Citadel territory. Again, Wildcat play was not
sloppy, as the receiver was opoen‘and the pass was on
the mark. An excellent Bulldog secondary was able
to work miracles and create the turnover. For the next
6:44 of first-half play, the defenses took over as each
team exchanged punts. At the half? Davidson 3, Cit-

-adel 16.

A second interception led to a Bulldo,, TD early
on in the second half. The dogs took over on the Da- .

vidson 22, and they. had little problem converting it
into seven points.

That was all of the scoring, and the opposing de-
fenses went at it from there. Despite a 23 point yield,
the Wildcat defense played extraordinarily well and
was severely handicapped by the turnovers.

So what now? After a blowout win over highly-
touted Boston University, hasthe Citadel loss thrown

the team back into the pre-BU rut? Coach Farrell
doesn’t seem to think so. “We have potential for the
trend to continue. Against BU things really fell in
place. Hopefully that was a turning point in our play,
but we can’t use the Citadel game as much of a meas-
ure.” The Citadel is a Division I school and has better
talent when you get right down to it.

What may well be a better mewasure of the play
of the post-BU team will come Saturday against
Hampden-Sydney. Coach Farrell calls the H-S game
“one of those aggravating games” in which “we dic-
tate the outcome.” The shoe was on the other foot
against the Citadel. The Tigers, a Division III team,
have an easy time getting up for the Davidson game,
and in the seven game series they have won twice and
allowed an easy win only once. The game will be no
piece of Homecoming cake.

The fullback trap |

1. The quarterback takes the
snap and drops back as if to
pass, but off to the fulilback.
The key to the play comes in
the blocking between. Center:
(offense) and Nose Guard
(defense).

2. If the Center blocks the NG O
to the left, the fullback goes

right (solid line). If the Center

blocks the NG to the right, the
fullback: goes . left (broken

line). The other players must!

block their assigned oppo-

nents, or the play goes for fit-

tle or no gain.

~~

tus

where you want us.

At Piedmont Bank,we
have ll offices to serve you in
8 growing communities.

g
O rsiaen ask

oer

DAYIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October

4 ae e-

menmhin hes Cane hha
