THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Money for seekers

“A school doen’t need a school committee. Or trustees. Or

governors, Or lumber. Or approved textbooks. All a school needs is
a mind that seske, and minds that receive.”
— The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail

Obviously this statement is not a realistic, nor even desirable,
blueprint. for Davidson ‘College. We do need committees, and
buildings, and even (especially) investment firms. But the
statement is profoundly important because it touches the nerve of
what a college is all about. We are, or we should be, a community of
seekers. And this community’s essential activity is the interchange
of two people, the teacher and the student.

This is why faculty salaries are important. Money, on the
administrative level, is the ‘‘energy’’ of the College. How much
money thie College gives its faculty indicates what its commitment
is to quality of teaching.

Last year, for the first time since 1966, the percentage of College
expenditures going to faculty salaries grew. The average salary
increase of 13.1% was almost up to the 13.3% rise in the Consumer
Prite Index. The faculty was not better compensated in real terms,
but at least they did no lose buying power as before.

Religion Professor David Kaylor said a year ago, ‘‘We hope the
increase is the beginning of a process, not a one-year desperation
move—a process to get the College’s priorities in order.’’ The
Trustees will demonstrate in three weeks whether they are willing
to commit themselves to this process.

In their cogent, thoughtful report on compensation, Professors
Robert Manning and Lance Stell spoke of financial worries
“gapping the spirit’’ of the College community. This year we have
seen the faculty’s anxiety reflected in its questions about financial
repercussions of the Educational Policy Committee’s original
proposals, questions like, ‘‘What’s to be cut to fund new
programs?” ‘‘How can we believe new money will come in?” We
have seen faculty members greet with disbelief President Spencer’s
bright vision for the future in his Convocation speech.

President Spencer and the Trustees will be facing some tough
decisiorfs on where to obtain additional funds if they vote to grant
substantial faculty salary increases.

But not facing those decisions would mean not facing our
function as an educational community. __ Elizabeth Kise

Money from-works, not faith

When asked why Davidson alumni tend to be nonchalant in their
financial support of the College, Acting Director of Development
Julius Melton once replied, “They’ re instilled with a feeling that
God wilt provide for Davidson.”

If the performance of our endowment over the past decade is any
indication, such complacency pervades much of the College’s
administration as well as its alumni. But we’re not so confident
that Calvinist Davidson is among the predetermined elect of
American colleges. It looks like we’re going to have to depend more
and more on things like the endowment—rather than divine :
grace—to keep the College running.

Endowments are basically simple things: the idea is to draw
annual income from a permanently invested portfolio, much the
same way you might live off the interest from a big savings account
without ever touching the principal. The problem here is that this
analogy is too applicable: over the past decade the College's

endowment has been yielding about the same amount of income as_

a good saving account—around six percent annually. But ‘the
College’s endowment isn't a nest egg of a few thousand dollars
across the street at Piedmont Bank — it’s a $20 million- plus
portfolio handled by Professional investment firms.

The College refers to this sort of investment performance as
indicative of ‘‘fiscal soundness” (The Davidson 1987: Program,
Sept. 1978). We think of it.as fiscal nonchalance. The College
points out that:our endowment’s yield has been average.compared
to colleges: nationwide. We wonder when The College adopted a
philosophy of mediocrity. What happened to the ideal of Davidson
as the Princeton of the South?

The Princeton up north, by the way, has ‘a standard of a
percent annual yield.on.its endowment. Of this. amount seven
percent is: put towards Princeton's annual operating: budget... and.
the other seven percent is reinvested so the endowment keeps pace
with inflation. Dayideon not only ofertas eee mes oat

ver the; ide; buts

towards annual a ns u
ollare, Devideon’s fpierha 1960 endowment was <S
only: 89 million in. in. 1979. Leds principal : Joon intareek; ap-tha.:

pn cc ae are the: adeemain prot ided for: Collage 2 EF!

‘operations in 1971’ tind fallen to'836 1,000 (1067 .

arya ain at pao
pointing out the College’s investment failures. We do want to fight
_ attitudes of complacency. Calvinist Davidson's salvation lies. in.
works, not faith. John Siman

The Campus Forum

ARA OK

To the Editors:

Part of last week’s editorial
dealt with the future of ARA/
Slater at Davidson College. One

of the alternatives put forward

by the editors was that students
should be able to work with the
new food service director, Mr.
Goodman, to make improve-
ments in ARA service. This
past Tuesday, Mr. Goodman
met with the food service com-
mittee and representatives of
SGA for the first time. During
his first week as director, he has
made several positive additions
to Richards and Bailey; such as
posted menus, hot chocolate
dispensers, etc. I regret that
some people attending the
meeting felt inclined to greet
Mr. Goodman’s arrival with
unfounded charges concerning
Mr. Currie, Davidson’s Busi-
ness Manager, and the service
provided by ARA. I believe
that attempts to force the
administration to accept bids
from other food/management
companies at ‘this time. are
unproductive. Student input
and cooperation with Mr. Good-
man will be most beneficial.

Pat M. Woodward Jr. ’84

Food committee member

Chauvinist Pig

To the Editors:

According to Charles Doug-
las, the Fourteenth Amendment
and the Civil Rights Act “grant
women all the rights under the
law which men possess.’”’ These
laws, however, were designed
specifically to eliminate race
discrimination rather than sex
discrimination and therefore
have not guaranteed women
equal protection under the las.
On these grounds, judges have
decided against women suing
for. equal protection (Kahn v.
Shevin,. 1974). In the spring,
NOW will publish an article in
The Davidsonian treating the
legal questions. of ERA. ©

Douglas’ article departs from.
the concrete-issues. of. ERA to“

an. emotional: discussion of wo- _

_.men’s rolés..based on: attitudes.

"which we find ‘offensive. In the |.
last third-of the article, Douglas: :

displays ‘his true ‘colors, using ~
faulty reasoning to. defend: his *

aa seeds roan ne

women have not been cobeids
ered equal,to men.

‘If Douglas: thinks that no- -

thing ‘‘would be-more honorable

hat ning ‘traditional: ‘roles:

and more self-satisfying than
raising one’s children properly
and watching them grow up to
become good, moral, hard work-

_ ing individuals” then that is

what he should be doing.
Everyone should be allowed to
decide what vocation is most
“honorable” and. ‘‘self-satisfy-
ing’ for her or himself. Freedom
of choice should not be restrict-
ed.

Douglas states, ‘‘women are
leaving a job which no man can
handle properly.’’ Unfortunate-
ly, Douglas’ stereotypic view of
sex roles prevents him from
pursuing the very vocation he
has deemed the most honorable.

Davidson NOW
Chapter members

An Alger story

To the Editors:

.Before delivering his sermon
on the evils of women’s liber-
ation and the specter of the
Equal Rights Amendment,
Charles Douglas might have
considered the words of William

- Rounseville Alger, a respected

American writer of the mid-
‘nineteenth century. Apparently
there were dangerous radicals
even in the world to which Mr.
Douglas would like to return. In
The Friendships of Women
(1867), Alger writes:

‘Phe first duty of every
human being is self-perfection.
The ideal of marriage is the
mutual perfection of both par-
ties. In its truest idea, marriage
is an institution for the perfec-
ting of the race, by the perfec-
ting of individual men and
women through their co-opera-
ting intelligence and affection.
To limit its end to the perfecting
of the man alone, is the highest
stretch of masculine arrogance.
Is it not a just inference, that, if
women is as completely a
human unit as man, she has an
equal right with him to the use
of every ‘means of self-develop-

ment ‘in the fulfillment of her,
: destiny? ‘The ‘foremost claim to

be‘ made on behalf of. women,

-therefore, is liberty—as-un- —
trammeélied ‘a choice of occupa--

Hoe tock modest fie, as free a

vim.

range of individuality and sprir-

-itual fruition as is granted to

men. . .What else is it save
prejudice that applauds. a wo-
man dancing a ballet or perfor-
mirig an opera, but shrinks with
disgust from one delivering an
oration, preaching a sermon, or
casting a vote? Why is it less
womanly to prescribe as a
physician than to tend as a
nurse? If a woman have a

- calling to medicine, divinity,

law, literature, art, instruction,
trade or honorable handicraft, it
is hard to see any reason she
should not have a fair chance of
pursuing it.”

Perhaps what worries Mr.
Douglas is not the ‘failure’ of
women in ‘‘traditional’’ roles,
but the challenge of competing
with intelligent women.

Ann Lee Bressler

Ms. Bressler is the wife of
History Professor Robin Bar-
nes. .

Clone Rusk

To the Editors:

The problem of what to do
with the two, new eating houses
that will open next year has
prompted us to write this letter.
We feel that one of the two new
facilities should be an all-girls
eating house. The interest that
has been shown toward the one
such arrangement, Rusk, by the
freshman girls makes it evident
that another similar house is

‘necessary. Many girls now wait

well into their sophomore year
to get into Rusk (some sopho-
mores are stilling waiting) and
with girls comprising one third
of incoming classes it only
makes sense to create a new all
girls house. It would increase
the eating and social activities
for Davidson co-eds and would
encourage Rusk to promote
itself more among the freshmen
class..The new house could
even work with Rusk in plan-
ning mixers and activities with
other schools. Four all-male
eating facilities are. available for-

Davidson ‘students: Shouldn't
there be at least two all-female?

Kathy Kooken ‘84
_ Katie Dagenbert “84
Rob Spaugh ‘84

F WACKSON, Production. m

ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN: suman

ape

‘teatures editor © MARY WOMBLE BARRINGER, FRED: BROADWELL. BETH
st FINDLAY, JAMES’ MOORE. SCOTT POWERS. KAREN SANDLIN. LAURIE SOPER.
\. CARTER VEST. TIM WHALEN, Graphics assistants) ©
DEMPSEY, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE WALTER. Production associates ©
BILL APPLETON. ED DAUGWTERY. JIM-RUMLEY. Statt artists
MARK SHEFFIELD, -Darkroom technicians

” JEFF MAN sng ;

DAVID on on :
edhtor

peta. ey.

“SCOT MYERS. :

@ - ANNE G'
LISA BUCKLEY. JEFF

@~ SALLY NEAL,
@ DAVID COTTON BANKS. Custodian

