Editor

The Davidsonian
Box 218

Davidson, NC 28036

DCF offensive

To the Editor:

Tomorrow the Davidson Christian Fellowship
will sponsor a community service workday.
According to the bulletin posted in my orm,

“Already requests are pouring in from professors, _

senior citizens, and our neighbors across the tracks .
. .” The use of this class slur is at best unwise and by
my standards un-Christian. Identifying groups of

people as black and / or low income is no way to make

friends or customers. The very.use of the: phrase
betrays a prideful elitist attitude towards others.
Perhaps the slur was unintentional, but I cannot help
but believe that people who unconsiously make this
distinction also unconsciously place value on

economic, racial, and ethnic distinctions. I am

considering moving “across the tracks” myself. I may
not live next to brilliant professionals of the future,
but I figure that whatever is lost in the way of
intellectual stimulation will be far outweighed by a
much-needed, healthy dose of Christian Fellowship.
Tom Leonard ’84

K:A thanks MD donors

To the editor:

The brothers of Kappa Alpha would like to
thank the following businesses for their contributions
which helped make the M. D. disco a success:

The Meeting Place
King of Pizza
Peregrine House
Western Steer

The Flower Cart

The Work Bench
The Glass Emporium
Park’s Rexall Drugs
Knox Realty

Natural Resources

The Buttery and Beanery -

_ Old Milwaukee Beer
Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen
Laura’s Rozelle
The Press Box
The Record Bar
Grapevine Records
The Clay Cat

hanks to the generosity of these businesses and

. ‘Davidson students; the disco raised over $800.00 for

muscular dystrophy.
The Brothers of Kappa Alpha

Midnight Madness thanks

To the Students and Wildcat Fans:

I want to thank the students, faculty, and —
especially the Wildcat Cheerleaders for the fine |

efforts in promoting and supporting - “Midnight
Madness,” The enthusiasm was great and this

enthusiasm gives the basketball team and our:

program a big boost.

~

i rr eT oe i

this team will represent you well. Again, from the
team and our staff, thanks for a great start.
| Bobby Hussey,
Head Basketball Coach

Original sin

- To the Editor:

My associate and I are mainly students of
science, and have had very little exposure to religion.
At a recent’ DCF meetinbg, we heard a rather
informative discourse on the Original Sin and its
conswequent fat e for mankiond.

$

ry eww

. ese X21 ¢ ft tay tg ee
*-4“Hopefufly* with a*joint effort*oii thie Camipus;

“ This spawned a questioon; which we offer to
yuour readers as not sop much a challenge or dare as a
genuine search for an answeer. As I have admitted,
our theological horizons are dangerously close, so.we
have no idea of the complexity (or simpliocity) of the
answer. The question, however, is this: What would
today’s society be like (comparatively, of course) if
the Original Sin had nopt been commited? We place
no question on the answen anyh angle you choose to
develop is welcome. Again, we do not dare you, we
merely request your x Knowledge

James G. Moore ’84
James C. Carson ’84
Jayson P. Murdock IV ’84

“Should you be treating
your ferily a little better?

_SUMPTUOUS
GOURMET FOOD
PLEASANTLY
_ SERVED IN EASY
SURROUNDINGS

SUNDAY

Treating them to dinner out is alwoys | nice.. _ but if it's

"usually “dinner in a paper bag” maybe ‘you should be.

“ 3 $522 | treating them a little better. If dinner out is no longer a
' LUNCH ww treat at your house.. it's time for a treat atourhouse. _
are At The Place we've cooked up a whole new
— Choice Of 5 Entrees menu full of delicious dishes, and at the same.time we've .
oe Salad . returned to the old-fashioned prices that will make eating:
ner “ euta welcome changeagain. =
Assortment Of Vegetables "Your faraity..can enjoy everything from boked chicken
Bread _ :t0.an alkAmericon steak: dinner... complete with o- free
(Homemade Dessert) 2 pears acarcml - and kid-slzed portions at
OPEN THURS.-SUN: | | ola natt gtakent Just noon: YON I oy, oo i
+ 8 us
Thars.-Sat—5:30 p.m.-10 P.M. some of our famoys country cooking. it will be a rea old-
See TEER: » ated ea for in els Nei: es i

THE MEETING PLACE RESTAURANT.

Phome 660-0419 _Macreevile, NC.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16‘October 1981
