Shin stitches

James Gelley experiements with shinty in Scotland

(The writer apologizes in advance to such champi-
ons of parochial values as Andy Rock for what he will
undoubtedly see as a pretentious contribution to Da-
vidson’s Homecoming Weekend.)

There is no dimension of a culture so revealing, so
symbolic as its diversions: in particular its outdoor
sports. The English, as observers are so fond of not-
ing, have successfully embodied their constitutional
continuity and sedentary nature in Cricket. It is a
game to be watched on a village green, nearly supine
under a soporific summer sun, sipping something
iced and in great supply like gin-and- tonic, letting the
crack of “ball on bat” lull one into a truly, Conserva-

tive state of mind. The Outer Mongolians (a people

born in the » saddle) still play the horscbacked § game.

from which Polo is thought to have. evolved: ‘two. -

sides (hordes?) vie violently for a calf carcass which
is gaffed and dragged from one end of a vast. plain
(steppe?) across an end- line (border?); this game re-
quires all the not-inconsiderable horsemanship a
Mongol can muster and is played by hundreds at a
time. We here in America clad our surrogate warriors
in high-impact plastic and nylon and, placing them in

monumental concrete-and-astro-turf stadiums, aim. .

them one head-on against the other. These great ob-
jects are orchestrated by the quarterback (field com-
mander?) and disciplined by. the “Mind.on the. side- :

lines’: the coach whose.’brains are never, never in \
danger of being re-arranged by a sizeable: opponent. as

The length of the list depends only upon the stamina
of the thinker.

Ah, but there’s a game’ still, played by what some 7 8 :

historian consider the last Barbarians in Europe: the”

Highland Scots. Shinty. Iti is. played i in pastures espe-' *
-cially.mown for the occasion which are nestled. grim: 7
ly at the foot of the monumental crags that comprise: °

their sides disproving any manufacturer’s claim

about the relative weather-proofing of your garments.
A team consists of twelve men wielding long oaken
sticks (not unlike field-hockey sticks) chasing a very
hard black leather ball about the size of a tennis ball
(but capable of inflicting brain damage, I expect, if it
caught you in the right places). Unlike field hockey,
the tame English cousin of Shinty, there are no rules
about where or how one uses a stick. In fact, my first
lesson was how to use the thing defensively. As far as
I know, the only rules are don’t touch the ball with
hand or foot, and if you must hit your opponent, try to
make it look like an accident. At the end of my first
season more than half the team had had stitches, pre-
dominantly in the shins: hence the name.

I was very anxious my first game; it was against
Glenorchy Shinty Club on their home turf: an irregu-
lar shaped field at the base of a particularly cruel look-
ing crag. I was worried because it is each man’s re-
sponsibility. to avoid getting hurt. When an enraged
middle-aged Scot who is laying in front of his whole
village on a foggy Saturday morning takes a swipe at
these wee balls, it is all too easy to intercept his back-
swing with your face. Frankly, I was “afeared” for
my. teeth; you see, if you have never been out of the

U.S., you don’t realize what.good teeth we have.

And I was afraid I’d leave some-of my nicer ones on

_ the end of somebody’s stick. 1 was somewhat reas-
sured when the game started to see that Id be playing
- against a red-haired boy of about my own age. Except

when he smiled. I’d have liked to see him eat an ear of
corn! . .

As I said, the whole village was there. Since the
highlands are so remote, this game was the big event
of the month. The town drunk was there, propped af-
ter a fashion against the corner post. Both post and sot
eventually fell over, but a few of the lads ran over and

‘reinstated.them. I concluded that we would probably
drink a lot less.if we had in our village one perpetually
_ sozzled:old codger who we had'to pick up. After the

game, incidentally, he offered to buy me a drink,
which | politely re refused. Eras

highland Scotland. Clouds usually veil these mons- 9
ters of earth and rock, and vicious winds rip,down - @

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981

Our changing house doubled as an auction house
for cattle and had no heating or running water. We
were soundly beaten, but we managed to “take a few
with us.” One rather odd looking fellow got cracked
on top of the head and had to retire to get sown up; he
showed up at our hotel and played the bag-pipe for
most of the night. When I asked him about his pipes,
which were a superb old set, he said his father as a
young man had borrowed them and never bothered to
return them. He said nobody could remember whose
they really were, so they just had them recovered in
the family tartan.

When we emerged from the changing rooms-after
the game, those of us “Yanks” were quite surprised to
see some members of the opposition dressed in kilts.
We were informed that we were so far into the high-
lands that men frequently wore kilts to work in. One
often hears the stereotypes about Scotland. concern-
ing drink. Please allow me to confirm them, These
lads could outdrink an entire Patterson Court keg par-
ty, and their ale is about three times as strong as our
pathetic brew. We smoked and drank for most of the
night, and I had the distinct impression that they
thought I was a lightweight. I’ve never seen men who
could outrun anyone on the field, hit a ball for-nearly a
hundred yards (and make it look easy), and spend the
next ten hours drinking heavily. And you'd never
want to meet a nicer people; I admit that as the hour
grow later and as‘the room began to defy.a few laws of
physics, I had trouble understanding the thick Scot-
tish accents. But they always had smiles on their fa-
ces.

"I may be back. in civilization, but there are. e things

., about Scotland 1 shall always carry with me (scarred

shins and Jiver problems?). One of these things i is the

i spirit of the Highland Scot, perhaps best embodied in
a xood’ game of any where the ne dieses is ike the

climate: hard.

— hp ee ee ee od ae agrenpi cece

hamid Gelly spent the last t two years studying as

Andrew’ s University in Scotland.

25
