The Weekly ewrapaner of Davidson College

Sida and you

Late Monday night a friend woke my roommate and me up to tell us that
if he were drafted, he wouldn’t serve. “We didn’t know that he had been wrest-

ling with the $roblem.

““If Reagan decides to pick a fight i in Central America or the Middle
East,” he told us, ‘I just wont’t go, I don’t think I could kill anyone, especial-
ly if I weren’t defending my country, but just fighting i in some petty. Third
,World dictator’s skirmish.

-_“*Mlaybe I could push buttons — shoot at tanks or other hacen: “But I
wouldn’t be able to face another person. One.on one I’d lose every time. ‘‘

but, all in all, everything seemed completely hypothetical. A pilosophy exer-
cise was all it was — intriguing and intellectually important, but nothing of
practical concern.

The next moming we heard that President Sadat of Egypt had been ass-

* assinated. Sadat had led.te most stable government in the Middle East: he

,~“He was relieved at having reached a decision after a great deal of agonizing, and

he was somewhat surprised at his choice. We asked him how his family would react.
“Oh, they would not want any part of me if T duicked out. But I’m prepared to make
that sacrifice.”

After he left, we ‘exchanged a few \ words before we fell back to sleep. We
were now a little frightened of having to confront the same choice ourselves,

om
; a
va

knew Egypt could not afford another war, so he bargained for peace. But giv-
én Sadat’s death, we imagined all sorts of scenarios in which a troubled, lead-
-erless Egypt provoked a war — a war for which we would be drafted

Now Egypt will, we agreed, probably remain stable, just as it did a de-
cade ago when Sadat replaced Nasser. But it is just a probable that many more
-heads of state will be assassinated. What frightened us was realizing how
“quickly an international crisis might develop after the next assassination —
how a hypothetical question might become a practical one overnight.

— John Siman ’82

D ° C 5 inthe spring ‘two students discuss their internship in Washington

natives.is an. academics institutions in

‘Washington, D.C. that provides internships
for undergraduate and graduate students. Last Spring
we decided that we would like to spend a term in Wa-
shington to help us clarify our majors and career
goals, to get a'different perspective on:studies, and to
be‘exposed to‘the'city where major U.S. political'ac-~ ~~

T he Washington Center for Learning Alter-

Jeanne Womack ’83
&
"Mike Frankhouser ’8

tended the Georgia Chamber of Commerce annual
banquet where all of the state and federal delegates
from Georgia met to discuss current legislation. And,
there’s always the Smithsonian, symphonies on the
front lawn of the Capitol, Georgetown. . .: WCLA is
now an affiliated program at Davidson. We would
highly recommend the internship as is was a mean-
ingful and eye-opening experience for us. We would

tivity occurs.’ With the help of Ken Wood, director of
the Careers Office, we were able to participate in the
yet unaffiliated program. WCLA provided us with an
internship related to our inerests, an apartment within
the district; and 4 @ seminar corresponding to our inter-
-nship. ‘

There were about 300 interns from colleges and
universities around the U.S. living in the Woodner
Apartments. Their jobs ranged from setting up exhib-
its at the Smithsonian to active lobbying on Capitol
Hill, |

The WCLA program determines the type’ < in-
ternship by the student’s interests and keeps in touch
with the student and agency sponsor (boss) through-

out the term to insure that the situation is. mutually:

beneficial. Mike worked for “Citizens for Education-

al Freedom” a lobbying group supporting tuition tax’ *
credits. Her job provided.access to the most current.

infd

ation and events concerning public and pri ate

tional educational system, a career interest for her;

while gaining ‘experience in the political activities ~ :
that affect legislation. The internship. also gave her
the opportunity to participate in meetings and semi-

_ Nats with speakers such as Dr. James Coleman, a so-

ciologist know for his statistical research on educa- or

tion.

the Office of State and Local Finance. ‘The Director
of the office, Robert:Aten, had been working ona re-

port on the effect of severance taxes. onthe 1983 fore-
casted Revenue Sharing allocations. Jeanne was

placed i in charge of a section of the: report on the for-
mation of severance taxes. The work involved  re-
search and Statistical analysis of energy production
data. The report was complete the first week in May
and whe Pecsonted’ to the Senate Ieee

education. In this way, Mike leamed about the na-

Jeanne worked in the Treasury Department for:

Relations Subhonmittes. 5 ee as another as-
pect of her work, Jeanne had continual contact with
Senators and Congressional hearings.

The Washington experience as a whole involved
much more than nine-hour work days. There were in-
finite cultural, historical, and social opportunites to
explore. We had lunch with Betty Anderson, the un-
dersecretary of the Treasury under the Carter Admin-
istration, at the exclusive International Club. We at-

DAVIDSONIAN/Friday9 October 1981

be glad to talk to anyone interested.

Jeanne Womack is a junior economics. major
from Richmond, Virginia. Mike Frankhouser is a
junior english major from Sylvania, Georgia. Jeanne
and Mike spent last spring term in Washington with
the newly affiliated Washington Center for Learning
Alternatives.

Juniors Jeanne Womack and Mike Franthouser.

11°
