2—The Davidsonian—April 3, 1981

News at a Glance

Seniors interested in applying for the position of Assistant to
the President should meet in College President Samuel
Spencer's office immediately following Coffee and Cokes next
Wednesday.

The position is a one-year internship in Dr. Spencer’s office.
Interested students should talk to this year’s assistant, Ginger
Evans, if they have any questions.

Elections for student offices will be held on Tuesday. The
candidates are as follows:

SOPHOMORE SENATOR (elect 3): Shannon Anderson,
Julie Cheek, Minor Hinson, Ken Howarth, Lentz Ivey, Ester
Kim, Matthew Merrell, Jason Ratterree, Caroline Scragg, Bry-
an Sloan, Rob Spaugh, Brent Taylor, George Thompson, and
Pat Woodward.

JUNIOR SENATOR (elect 3): Sherman Allen, Al Baldwin,
Bob Barnes, Buck Bradberry, Sandy Fossett, Gray Hampton,
Tim Johnston, Tracy Thompson, and Margaret West.

SENIOR SENATOR (elect 3): Andy Brown, Barry Mack,
Mott McDonald, Warren Overby, and Betsy Thomas.

STUDENT SOLICITORS (seniors): The team of Chip
Christian and Bill Purcell.

DEFENSE ADVISORS (seniors): The team of Bobby Ervin
and Bryan Duke and the team of Nicholas Viest and Dave
Proffit.

REVIEW BOARD (seniors): Eric Crum, Chris Daniels, and
Brent Hilleary.

COUNCIL ON CAMPUS AND RELIGIOUS LIFE (elect 2):
Howard Browne, William Carter, Eric Crum, David Evans,
Buncie Hay, Michael Kelley and John McDowell.

“STUDENT CONDUCT COUNCIL (elect 2): Sherman Ailen,
Bob Barnes, Lynne Folcher, and Kathleen Huff.

HONOR COUNCIL (3 from each class):

Sophomores: Katie Dagenhart, Willie David, Emily Davis,
Alicia Dewey, Harriett Gaston, Susan Kann, Terry Kurtts,
Hunter Monroe, Kelly Moore, Scott Otto, Deepak Sawhney,

- Bobby Silver, Rob Spaugh, Thomas Tankersley, Jeff Tilbury,
and Drew Wells.

‘ Juniors: Mebane Atwood, J Cc. Faulkner, Eric Fichtner, Bill
King, Lucy Marshall, Greg McFayden, Elizabeth McMillan,
Ben Oldham, Norwood Smith, Danny Waddill, and Sara

Seniors: Howard Browne, David Evans, Ellen Gyauch, Gia
Partain, Stokes Peebles, Joan Redding, Hill Stockton, Betsy
Thomas, and Liza White.

Advisory Council appointments will be made within the next
two or three weeks.

Advisory Councils make policy recommendations to the
President and, on requést, to the Board of Trustees.

- Council members include professors, administrators, and
students. Student, members are appointed by the SGA.

Two student positions are available for Admissions and
Financial Aid, three for Alumni Activities, six for Campus and
Religious. Life, and two for Counseling and Guidance. ‘'

Two students will be chosen for the Educational Policy
committee, three for Finance, Personnel, and Development, and
three for Intercollegiate Athletics.

There are two positions available on the council for
International Education, one for the Library, three on the Media
Board, and two for Physical Education.

Interested students should sign up in the Dean of Students’
office next week.

Camp Thunderbird

Camping at its Best
Employment at its Best _

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and
tdisien who ‘ase-theicsated tt warring boye and girls ages -

. 1-16, guiding-them in their physical; mental and spiritual

_ development. Only those’ persons whowill dedicate their

wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop

his or her. potential should apply. One must have ability to

teach in one or more spécialized activities. College.

students, teachers, and coaches. should apply. CAMP

» NC, is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing: in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and
canoeing); yet an added emphasis ig placed on ‘the land
sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and
backpacking). Horseback ‘riding, white-water canoeing
and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For
further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr.
Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover,

|__$.C, 29710 (803-831-2121)

THUNDERBIRD, located 17 imiles: south of Charlotte,

College’ is digging in to save energy costs

By JIM POLLARD
Staff Writer

The College is working to
increase energy efficiency in
campus buildings because of
rising heat and electricity costs.

Major improvements in the
energy efficiency of existing
buildings are unlikely because
of prohibitive costs, however.

The Commons and the new
dormitories are designed to be
more energy efficient, according
to Physical Plant Director Gro-
ver Meetze.

About 10,000 square feet of
floor space in the Commons is
underground, taking advantage
of the natural insulation of the
earth.

The north side of the Com-
mons is almost all windows,
however. Meetze explained that
although the exposure may
waste energy, it makes the
building attractive and so is an

acceptable compromise. He ad-
ded that the windows are two
panes thick to provide insula-
tion, and are also tinted.

The Commons roof can be

adapted to hold solar panels, as
can the library roof, Meetze
said.
- The two new dormitories are
heated by energy efficient heat
pumps. Heat pumps pull heat
from the outside air to the
inside, working on the same
principle as refrigerators. The
new dormitories will also be
equipped with storm windows.
None of the present College
dormitories have storm win-
dows.

The College does hope to
increase the energy efficiency of
existing campus buildings.
Meetze said, ‘‘We plan an
energy audit for sofne of the
older buildings. We'd like to
have a plan for each building if

Parking spaces to be moved

By GEORGE BOOTH
Staff Correspondent

Students may park their cars
more and more on the fringes of
the campus in the future. |
* The College eventually plans
to move to “external parking”
to decrease motor traffic in the
center of campus, according to
Security Chief Jackie Hughes.

For next year, however, Phy-
sical Plant Director Grover
Meetze plans to increase the
number of student parking
spaces, Hughes said.

Meetze was not available for
comment.

The plans include expanding

Main Street from Cunningham
Fine Arts Building. There will
also probably be small lots on
either side of the new plaza-

_ walkway which will stretch

from the front of the Commons
to the rear of Belk. According to
former SGA Vice-President
Stuart Dorsett, these lots could
be ready when the Commons
opens next fall.

Dorsett said the SGA is
working with Meetze on his
plans. The SGA suggested
making the lot opposite Cun-
ningham a freshman parking
lot. Campus. security would
need to patrol the lot, since its

_ separation from the campus

the present parking lot across

Izod Knit Shirts

. Madras sportcoats

Soring ts here
and so are our new
Birdwell Beah Britches

Khaki pants by Berle
and Woolrich

Tennis, and Hike shorts by :
Woolrich and Munsingwear

Grand Slam cotton knit shirts
Sero short sleeve dress shirts

Summer suits— tan poplin by Haspel

money becomes available.’’
Meetze had considered con-
verting the steam heating sys-
tems in the old dorms to a more
efficient system, but high costs
make such a conversion unfea-

sible at this time.
The Physical Plant depart-

ment recently installed a meter
in the control room of the
library to monitor the College’s
energy use minute by minute.
They will use the meter to
discover when kilowatt demand
is highest. The department will
then shut down less important
electrical devices during the

~ peak time. This will reduce

overall costs because the elec-
tric bill is based on peak
kilowattt demand.

Already the College has drop-
ped its peak kilowatt level by
14.6% since 1978, resulting in a
saving of thousands of dollars,
according to Meetze.

to ‘fringe’

proper makes it vulnerable to
vandalism.

Other possible sites for new
parking areas are behind Irwin
and Knox dormitories or on the
old baseball field behind Jack-
son Court, according to
Hughes.

Hughes said he is ‘'90 percent

ure” there will no longer be a

road between Belk dormitory
and the laundry. This would
re-route traffic around Patter-
son Court. By discouraging
through traffic, he added, it
would enhance campus traffic
safety.

Come see and browse! a

