May 8, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

News at a Glance.

The following students will be studying in Marburg, Germany
next year: sophomores Fred Broadwell, Tim Brotherton, Mark
Burris, John Chidsey, Paul Griffith, Hal Martin, Laurie Noto,
Richard Page, Ron Tunkel, and junior Mark Phillips.

- The following sophomores will be going JYA to Montpellier:
Mike Allan, Mort Ames, Jeff Dempsey, Lisa Draine, Jeff
Jordan, Janie Larus, Sissy McCamy, Catherine McMillan,
Laura Perry, John Stanback, Laura Terry, and Ruth Wolf.

The following sophomores will be going JYA to St. Andrews
College in Scotland next year: Frank Bright, David Bruns, Tim
Cassell, James Funsten, and David Taylor.

Sophomore Tim Ritchie will be JYA at Edinburgh University.

Sophomore Mason Olds willbe JYA at Kent College.

The following students will be studying in India next term:
junior Mark Barrett, junior Debbie Eisenbise, sophomore John
Krotchko, sophomore Elizabeth MéMillan, sophomore Tom °
Pafford, junior Edith Parker, junior Dan Robinson, and
sophomore Liz Wilson.

Robert Shackleford will be arraigned in Charlotte on May 21
for the March 12 shooting of sophomore Joe Leman. Leman was
shot in the chest with a .38 calibur handgun at Hattie’s Night,
the annual beer party sponsored by Fannie and Mahe! eating
house.

Shackleford has been charged with assault with a deadly
weapon inflicting serious injury. The charge carries a ten year
maximum jail term. According to his lawyer, Charles Merriman,
Shackleford is expected to plead guilty.

If convicted, however, Shackleford could possibly receive a
suspended sentence because he has no previous criminal record.

The day after the shooting, Shackleford turned himself in to
authorities, signing a confession. He was charged at that time
with assault with a deadly weapon and with inflicting serious
injury with the intent to kill, a felony carrying a maximum
sentence of 20 years.

Shackleford’s attorney ‘‘plea-bargained’’ to exclude the ‘‘with
intent to kill’’ clause originally in the charge, according to
Leman.

Shackleford was released without bail on a pre-trial release
program and his April 28 preliminary hearing was waived
because of abundant evidence. . ‘

Leman, who was hospitalized for one week, said he is doing
well, although he still cannot lift his left arm above shoulder -
height.

He added that he thinks the court is “‘skipping justice to save
time’”’ by allowing Shackleford to plead guilty to a lesser charge.

—Cambria Melton

There has been a marked increase in the incidence of stealing
in several dorms on campus. It is important that students be
aware of this fact and be careful in: protecting their personal
belongings and those of others. Stealing is a violation of the
Honor Code and students are honor bound.to report suspected
violations.

Clarification
Last week’s issue stated incorrectly that Admissions Director
John Griffith supported Philosophy. Professor Robert Maydole’s
petition for a merit based admissions policy which does not
discriminate on the basis of sex. Griffith said he did appreciate
tne petition as an indication of faculty concern, but he did not

--Smpnart_the petition.

Las

‘COME TO

PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEFORE

Low Cost and Confidential
Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
, _ Problem Pregnancy Counseling
i Abortion Services

Information on birth control, V.D., pre-

/e are often neryous when -
ne natal care, and adoption at no cost.

they come to Planned Parenthood.
They shouldn't be. We're just regular
people, and we try-to make. .
everyone feel comfortable, We want
you to come back and bring your
friends.”

FOR INFORMATION
OR APPOINTMENT
CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

The Hair Cottage
Creative hair cutting
for men and women
owner/stylist: Jane Schenk

1757 E. Rocky River Road
892-5107

by appointment only

(Continued from page 1)

However, the endowment’s 1979-80 fiscal year
performance placed Davidson ‘‘within the top
12% of college endowments,’’ Currie said. The
endowment generated. $2,500,000 in interest and
dividends over the last 18 months, a total
percentage investment return of ‘‘slightly over
35%,” according to Currie.

The three firms are Wentworth, Hauser and
Violich of San Francisco,: Fayez Sarofim and
Company of Houston, and Lexington Manage-
ment Corporation of New York.

According to Currie, the Trustee Investment
Sub-committee will meet with representatives of
the three firms tomorrow morning. Currie said
the Trustees will not evaluate the. firms’ overall
progress until they have had more time to achieve
their investment objective,

Wentworth Hauser ig the College’s debt
manager and invests only in fixed income
securities by Trustee policy. The other two
companies invest in both equity stocks and fixed
income bonds and stocks.: Energy stocks com-
prise the largest portion of the equity invest-
ments. (see graph)

The Trustees have been ‘delighted with the
progress the endowment has made, ewpeciallyt
the increase in principal,’’ according to Trustee
Investments Sub-committee Chairman Edwin
Lucas.

Lucas said the College chose to have three
compainew manage the endowment becuase his
encourages sound investment policies by intro-
ducing an element of competition.

The College first hired a professional invest-
ment manager in 1967. From 1967 to 1979
Scutters, Stevens, and Clark of New york
handled the endowment. During this period the
endowment groew from $16,105,000 to $22,002,
926 in market value, but had declined to just over
$9 million in 19067 constant dollars.

Debt manager Wentworth, Hauser, and Violich
handles about $3.5 million of the endowment, all
in fixed income securities. Partner Curt Hausere
said his firm is restructuring the endowment to
have more intermediate term bonds which mature
in four to five yeas so that bond maturity dates
“will coincide with cyclical rates of high interest.”
Hauser said his firm has achieved a 3.8% rate of
return on the Davidson bonds it handles. ‘This is
good with respect to the rest of the bond market,”
he said, and ‘‘about even with inflation.” He
added that the College does not do as well as it

- -Faculty vote

(Continued from pagel)

criteria used in evaluating col-
leges and universities is- the
number of fellowships its grad-
uates win.

The second argument was
that Davidson’s reputation
rests mainly on its pre-law,
pre-medicine, _ pre-ministerial
and pre-business preparation.
Significantly fewer women than

crease.

Endowment

men enter these professions. As
the proportion of women stu-
dents on campus increased.
Davidson’s reputation could de-

Physics Professor Locke
White said he was concerned
about the practical implications
of sex-blind admissions

White feared that
sex-blind admissions could

' .

could because Scutters, Stevems, and Clark
mishandled the endowment, investing in too
many long term bonds wihch decline in value as
inflation rises.

Wentworth, Hauser, and Violich also manages
the endowments at the Unversity of SAn
Francisco and Mills College of Oakland.

Fayed Sarofim Vice-president Bill McGee said
his firm invests heavily in energy stocks becuase
they offer a ‘‘good return’’ and comprise about 30

% of the American economy. McGee said there
was ‘‘a strong market environment in 1980,’’ but
he could not predict if such an environment would
continue. He emphasized that it is critical to
“generate a rate of return that is better than
inflation.”

Fayez Sarofim handles $13.5 million of the
endowment. They invest 48.1% of their ption in
energy stocks, holding 16,000 shares of ARCO
stock, 15,000 shares of Exxon stock, 10,000
shares of Standard Oil of Indiana stock, and
9,000 shares of Pennzoil stock. The company also
invests 51% of their peortfolio in U.S. Treasury
bonds, 7.4% in financial institutions, and 6.6%
in consumer goods firms, including 6,000 shares
in Coca-Cola Company, 10,000 shares in Phillip
Morris, 11,000 shares in Ralston Purina, and
3,000 shares in R.J. Reynolds.

Fayez Farofim mamages several college endow-
ments, including Rice University’s.

Lexington Management Vice-president Marie
Flynn said a money manager must be ‘‘cognizant
of the need for preservation of capital’’ in
handling college endowments, and of the need for
“at least keeping up with inflation.”” She said
Lexington concentrates investments in ‘‘com-
panies with superior earnings growth potential
and relatively low cost stock.’’ Flynn added that
Davidson got a good return on investments last
year, but ‘‘recently the market has been
undervalued. The next six months could be
‘rougher.”’ She said Lexington will ‘‘do its best
gient the economic environment.”’

Lexington handles the endowments of WAke
Forest and the new York School of Design in
addition to Davidson’s.

The College once owned stock in South African
companies. In February 1979 the Board of
Trustees ruled that the College would not buy
shares ‘‘of any South African corporations, or of:
any other corporations whose principal a activities
are in South Africa.”

make the College’s enrollment
predominantly female. A pre-
dominantly female student
body would make the College
“less attractive to both male
and female would-be appli-
cants.”

THe faculty presented a peti-
tion concerning admissions po-
licy to the Trustees 20 years
ago, proposing to end racial
‘discrimination.

Signals The End Bit Appleton

ARRIVING InN AN suu!,. WERE COMES Lenk,
ABAWPONED SCTE NCE |pord BACK WES SeLOTERS
ELDING , SEEWAL ANP [eyHELE Zuni TARE .

Mecice Seakcn oT [CARE OF Hm!
THE Evll wAhieck

LooAkK whe. WAS f
EwstAveD THE eo
PATECHS .WIELOLNG,
THE MAGLC RUNE-
SweRD , SLEWAL
Horas Te pasTney
Lepak AWD FREE
HES pECPLE /

EY A STRANGE |
pegaas !

{- a:
LODAK BEUOWS, “I WAVE

bl MeL~,
Tao sword! You ARE of
THE OYENG FAFNER corks
FoR STEAML; A COLD BiVA
LEENT GLANCE S fRom NES

