THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

‘Hattie’s Night:

anwar

ret TRA

Keep it Irreverent but Safe

It is over. Joe Leman is recuperating in the hospital,
F&M has been cleaned up, the police have written their
reports, and Robbie Shackleford is far away from us
once more, facina a frightening and uncertain future.

The question now is, what do we do? A student got
shot on campus last week. We can regard the whole
incident as a freak, something to be handled as quietly
as possible, as the Administration has tried so hard to
do, issuing no statements, calling no mass meetings.

Or we can panic at this intrusion of the “outside
world,” and seek to insulate ourselves from it.

Neither response is a healthy one. First, while the
Hattie’s Night Shooting certainly does not signal a rash
of gunfights, we must recognize that Mecklenburg
County and the town of Davidson are growing and
. growth entails an increased crime rate. Other colleges
deal with assaults, robberies, and rapes on a daily
basis. Hopefully we will never get to that. But already

_this year there have been robberies in Chambers and
Belk as well as a higher rate of vandalism. Davidson’s
idyllic isolation is not inviolable.

But also, that isolation may not be a completely
unmixed blessing. Davidson is often characterized as
an ivory tower and a snob school. When we see in
Robbie Shackleford the “Outside World—Wicked and
to be. Avoided” we are practicing self-imposed
parochialism. Before we pat ourselves on the back for
being a moral elite, let us examine how we treat
townies in the snack bar and the Buttery and Beanery,
how we reconcile our $7000-a-year education with the
drafty shacks resting on cement blocks just across the
tracks. There is a dangerous complacency in the “‘tet’s
avoid the big bad world as long as possible” mentality.

We cannot, and should not, avoid the world.’ But we |
must deai with it intelligently. It is time to assess the

institution of Hattie’s Night to determine what risks it
entails and whether it is worth those risks.. _

Hattie’s Night is a slam-bang, blow-off-some-steam
affair, a.wild landmark in the relatively sedate Davidson
party scene. It can be fun.

But hundreds of people packed. into one eating
house is.not fun. It is dangeraus. Crowding excites. —

¢ tension. By amplifying noise and making conversation
impossible, it makes getting drunk ‘the only thing to
do. Most students admit they find Hattie’s Night too
loud and stifling. The party’s setting has become
dangerous; it is time to change it.
Nor is the party fun for the non-drinker.. Why not

offer alternatives to beer? Non-alcoholic beverages and -

snacks would give the party greater variety.

~ With such a large crowd, there should be. more

careful arrangements with campus security and town
‘ police so that an officer with clear jurisdiction is near

enough to respond quickly in an emergency.

And there should be a group of students in charge,
present at all times and not drinking. We were
extraordinarily lucky that several emergency medical
technicians were on the spot and alert when Joe was
shot. | oo

Everyone has heard someone say, “It’s going to take
a death to make them put up a traffic light at the
intersection.” We were fortunate that our early warning
was not fatal.

At an institution with so many reverent traditions,
it’s refreshing to have a tradition as irreverent as
Hattie’s Night. So let’s not scrap it. But let’s not avoid
last week’s lesson, either. We hope F&M and the other
Patterson Court houses will decide on changes in their
party formats to ensure that tragedy does not recur.

—Elizabeth Kiss

FTRAsT LET’s FRE LOCKS CN THE BASKETBALL OCFFIECE #45

NOW 7CU WANT WE TO CHANSTE 'EM TN BELK OCRM!

YALL DITONT FIRE THE EREStMEN, OIOITA?
z

The Campus Forum

Hattie’s Night

Fan Mail

To the Editor:

Unfortunately, as we all
know, the annual Hattie’s
Night celebration ended in a
tragic incident this year. We
sincerely regret that this hap-
pened. We would like to thank
everyone for their cooperation
in clearing the area, so that the
situation could be handled effi-
ciently by emergency personnel.

We hope to be part of a
community decision to take
whatever steps are necessary to
tighten security at campus
events to avoid incidents like
this in the future.

Thank you again for your
cooperation.

To the Editor:

On behalf of the tennis team I
would like to express my apre-
ciation for the tremendous sup-
port from Davidson students,
faculty, and friends during last
week’s tennis matches. '

Our current 6-0 record can be
attributed not only to the fine
play of the team, but also to the
overwhelming response we have
received from the Davidson
community.

We have 27. scheduled
matches at Davidson, so the
home crowd will play a larger
role that ever before. So far the
number of people coming out for
the matches is more than I have

The Officers of Fannie & ever seen in my years at
Mabel’s - Davidson. I just hope that our
Joni Seehorn 82. +=‘ team can live up to the support

_ Lisa Buckley ’82 we are receiving. ¥

Scott Haight ‘83 Rick Johnston ‘81

Melissa McKeithen '83 - :
Pam Rew ‘83 tr -
Dave Riopel ’82 Keep it to Us
itt sch. To the Editor:

Tuition Hi ke We are all concerned over the
' incident at Fannie and Mable’s
To the Editor: fated “Hattie's - Night’’—con-

I am. simply outraged. Not

-only that, Fam disowned. Last

sonian, my horrified glance fell
on the headline ‘Student com-
prehensive fee to go up $7075
next. year.”

This is precisely a 114%
increase from this year’s fee. I
mean, this is worse than Mag-
gie Thatcher. It’s even worse
than the Politburo’s sausage
price hike in Poland.

This is communist.

My horror increased when my
parents called up four days
later. They, too, had read the
story.

“Kid,”’ my Father said, ‘‘we

saw the tuition hike, and your

Ma and. I decided that you’re
just not worth the investment.
We'd rather buy an Audi.”

So I’m packing my bags and
heading for computer school.

Please protest this outrage in
my stead.

Broke Bloke

cerned not only that such a
thing has happened, but also
that it could re-occur.

We must not, however, allow
ourselves to assume that the

shooting occurred as a conse-
quence of ‘‘the bash,”’ although
inebriation clearly played a role.
Some students feel that ‘‘Hat-
tie’s Night” and-similar festivi-
ties should be abolished as a
result of Mr. Shackleford’s ir-
rational act. I personally ex-
press parallel opinions, but I do
realize that Shackleford and his
associates are ‘‘townies,”’ who
can easily be excluded from
future campus activities.
Restricting campus activities
to campus residents is, I think,
a much better approach than
eliminating said activities.
James Moore '84

“Apathy

address.

DONALD CALDWELL

* GLENN KELLUM, JOHN. KROTCHKO
editors
JAMES BARRAT

editor
DANNY ARMISTEAD
sum editor
JIM CROWE ed
. Sports editor
IVY GOODMAN
Batk page editor

The Davidsonian welcomes letters. All letters must
be signed. We will withhold names on request. Please
bring letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor
of the College Union or send them to our mailing

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic
year (except holidays and examination periods) by the
students of Davidson College. Mailing address: Box 218,
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 148
( office) and ext. 149 (print shop). Subscription rate: $8 per
year. Advertising rates available‘on request. Second class
postage paid at Davidson N.C.

ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
Editors

para antazeH JACKSON, Production manager @
eatures editor @ TIM WHALEN, FRANCES PALMER, Assistant editors

WOMBLE BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, MAY ‘Moone,
SCOTT POWERS, KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER VEST, Graphics
assistants @ LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF DEMPSEY, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE |
WALTER, Production associates @ BILL APPLETON. ED DAUGHTERY, JIM RUMLEY, |
Statt artists @ SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom technicians e DAVID BANKS |

MARK BARRETT
JEFF MANN
DAVID MCCURRY
Pho
DAVID MCCURRY
WARREN LACKEY

Advertising manager
SCOT MYERS

Circulation manager
ANNE GOODWIN . Assistant

editor

BETHFINDLAY, JAMES MOORE,

