The advisory councils —

The SGA appoints new student members

_ by Suzanne Dickey ’84

What say do students have in
what goes on at the College? Students
sit on five presidential advisory coun-
cils and eleven committees and boards
that develop College policy.

Student committee members act
as liasons between. the student body
and the faculty and adminstration.

The following are the advisory

councils,their student members, and-

their functions.

The Admissions and Financial
Advisory Council acts as ‘advisor to
President Spencer in programs, prob-
lems, and plans for the Financial Aid
and Admissions offices. Religion Pro-
fessor Samuel Maloney - heads the
council this year. Sophomore Shannon
Anderson and junior Bob Flemma are
the student members . The Admissions

and Financial Advisory Council also-

coordinates the Student Admissions
Team, the SGA Admissions Commit-
tee, and the SGA Prospective Students
Weekend. —

The Campus and Religious Life
Advisory Council is one of the most
influential councils on campus. They
cover almost all facets of campu s life
and advise the president and give rec-
ommendations pertaining to campus
life. Recent discussions. have been
about the Commons, the Chaplain’s
position, and the future of the two
empty houses on Patterson Court. Stu-
dent members of this council include
seniors Eric Crum, Tom Marshburn,
Stuart Dorsett, and Scott Smith, and

juniors Buck Bradbury, Derek Harbin,
Buncie Hay, and Elizabeth McMillan.

The Finance, Personnel, and
Development Advisory Council hasa
good deal of influence. It advises the

~ president on the College budget. SGA

President Chip Legerton, senior Edith

-Parker, and junior Bill McFayden are

on the council.

‘TheIntercollegiate. Athletics

Advisory Council formulates opin-

ions and policy in intercollegiate at-
hletics and has as. its student members
juniors Chip Hurley, Scott Smith, and
Victor Taylor. '

The following are the boards and
committees, their student members,
and their functions.

The Activities Grant Board ap-
propriates funds-from its treasury for
student requested activities. The SGA

vice-president, junior Chip Hurley, is

a member of this board, along with the
Union Board ‘president, senior Ann
Parker, the Union social vice-presi-
dent, senior Jonathan West, and. the
Union co-curricuar vice-president,
junior Lindsay Biddle.

Juniors Trig Adams and Linda
Brown and sophomore Hunter Monroe
are the student members on the Alum-
ni Activities Committee, which helps
plan Alumni get togethers and: greet
alumni on visits.

Sophomore. Julie Cheek, junior
Sara Wheeler and an as yet unappoint-
ed student are all on the Artists Series

‘Committee which plans and sche-
dules the Artist Series performances as

Problems with student noise

Davidson town council considering noise ordinance

[Continued from page 1]
mate how long it would take to enact a
noise ordinance.

Mr. Lloyd said at the meeting,
“The (SPE) party shook my window-
panes.” Several other residents also

complained about the noise from the:

party.

~ Mayor MacCormac Said “SPE
president Ralph Taylor met with town
officials a week before the party. The
town. asked the-fraternity to take cer-
tain precautions to protect their niegh-
bors” property. Ralph said they cor-
doned off the area, hired four off-duty
policemen, checked. student IDs, did
not serve alcoholic beverages, and did
not allow glass containers. The. party
was on a Thursday afternoon: so as to
disturb-as few people as possible. Cars
were parked in an on-campus lot to

_ keep Main Street clear. ‘An alumnus

drove through the aréa to see if the
music was excessively loud.

Ralph also said that they sent let-"

ters to area residents warning them

about the party. Mrs. Strough’s letter.

said that one resident found a letter
“face down near the street,” on the

morning of the party. All other resi-
dents either receivéd no letter, or got.

one Friday morning, after the. party.
Ralph said this was because the letters
were. placed in the neighbors’ Ob-

server boxes after they got their news- :
papers that day. Ralph also.said that.
the letters were not required, Pet Were os

sent as “a matter of courtesy.”
“We really bent over backwards,

. >Our party should serve.as a prece- -

dent for parties in the, future,” Ralph

said. Mayor McCormac said the party is
was ‘one, however it was noisy.

well as other performances and art ex-
hibitions.. .

' Sophomore Jeff Mann is on the
Bookstore Committee, which acts.as
a leason between the bookstore and the
students.

The Counseling and Guidance
Committee. advises and assists the
Dean of Students, Will Terry, and the
Director of Student Counseling. Will-
iam Hight, in regard to advising fresh-

‘man, and academic, vocational, and

clinical counseling. Senior Ralph Tay-
lor and sophomore Chris Gunn are on
this committee.

The Educational Policy Com-
mittee regulates and suggests changes
in major curricula and College curricu-
lum requirements. Senior Bill Purcell
and junior Todd Cowdery are student
members of the EPC.

_ The International Education
Committee advises the vice-president
for academic affairs, T. Price Zimmer-
man, concerning policies regarding
College programs of study abroad, in-
ternational students, and activities re-
lating to. international education on
campus. Student members are seniors
Alice Musik and Susan Roberts.

The Media Board supervises all
campus publications and press releases
to the public concerning the College.
Senior Howard Browne, junior Ken
Krieg, and sophomore Hunter Monroe
are-on the Media Board.

The Physical Education Com-
mittee works with Sterling Martin and
advises concerning personnel needs
and maintains the program. Its student

- = DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 October 1981

members are juniors Jeff Nielson and
Tom Schember.

The Public Lectures Committee
plans and schedules major public lec-
ture programs, including Union speak-
ers. the chairman of the Union Speak-
ers Committee, junior Sherman Allen,
junior Sara Wheeler, and an as yet un-
appointed student serve on the Public
Lectures Committee.

The Student Conduct Council
advises the president concerning stu-
dent conduct and disciplinary proce-
dures. They are responsible for stan-
dards in use of physical facilities, traf-
fic and parking, and personal behav-
ior. Its members include the SGA pres-
ident, senior Chip Legerton, the SGA
vice-president, Chip Hurley, the se-
nior class president, Andy Brown, the
junior class president, Tim Johnson,
the sophomore class president, Julic
Cheek, the freshman class president,
Rod Holman, junior Bobby Barnes,
and sophomore Kathleen Huff.

The Union Board organizes and
promotes social and cultural activities
through the College Union. It has sole
authority to allocate the social fee. The
Union president, senior Ann Parker,
the Union vice-presidents, senior Jon-
athan West and junior Lindsey Biddle,
the chairman of the Union program
committees, and one representative of
the Patterson Court Council, the SGA
Senate, the Residence Hall Council,
and each campus organization char-
tered by the SGA are on the Union
Board. .

_Mr. Charles LLoyd

