Video games

Students plug in to hi-tech toys

A galaxy holds its breatn as one courageous adven-
turer, having circumvented various blasts, bombs, las-
ers, and fireballs, prepares to. encounter the enemy
flagship — the last bastion of the invading robot
hordes.

Has Luke Skywalker so soon resumed his cinemat-
ic exploits? Or has Lorne Greene given up dogfood and
health insurance to continue his quest for Earth? The
truth of the matter is that Mike H., on his nightly pereg-
rination to the 900 Roon, has stopped in the gameroom
to challenge once more the forces of the Gorfian Em-
pire.

Gorf represents a relatively recent phenomenon —
the video game, a source of profit for its producers and
a pastime for its patrons. Games like Space Invaders,
Asteroids, and Pacrhan may seem firmly entrenched,
but it was a mere eight years ago that Atari’s Pong in-
troduced the revolutionary new type of game to the
American public. Since then, video games — com-.
puter programs designed for amusement — have large-
ly replaced pinball machines and claim a wider and
more devoted following than their more mechanical
forebearers could even muster.

In the Union gameroom the pinball machine is no
more, having yielded its place to the likes of Gorf, As-
troblast, and Vanguard. For greater variety the snack
bar offers Asteroids and Wizard of War.

Sophomore Eileen Benner, head of the gameroom,
estimates that these five machines bring in roughly
$400 of extra revenue for the College Union each
week. This figure represents 50 percent of the total that
goes into the machines, the other 50 percent going to
the company that put them there. Dave Webb, game-
room supervisor, notes that there has been a “‘tremend-
ous jump” in the use of the machines from last year to
this but is unable to explain why.

In addition to the Union, the avid video-gamester
can, in the immediate area, satisfy his cravings at the
Peregrine House, Gus’s, Ham ’n Eggs, the 7-11, Ca-
shion’s and Belk lobby, which features Asteroids and
Galaxian.

- Naturally, such a wide-spread phenomenon has
evoked much speculation. Some sociologists fear that

the video games are producing a generation able to re-

late better to computers than to people. Other experts
see the games as nothing more than a mode of esca-

pism.

Anthropologist Edward Hall, author of Beyond
Culture, believes that the players are “getting practice
for the sort of things they’ll have to be doing in the fu-
ture.” Here he agrees with student Dave R., who con-
tends that the Asteroids players of today will be the
fighter pilots of tomorrow.

Certainly the video game, dependent on space-age
computer technology for its existence, represents a
changing world. The frequent use of science-fiction
themes in video games attests to this fact. D' Hall
claims that the games often provide “an orientation to
the future.”

Video games are, in fact, only the beginning. To-
day such big-name performers as Fleetwood Mac and
Paul Simon are available in video concerts, a burgeon-
ing and economical alternative to live concerts.

So the next time you walk past a row of video
games, take a moment to protect your planet from alien
invaders. Not only will you be having fun, but you’ll
be investing in the future.

By Drew Davis ’83.

Computer programs

Putting the new computer to work teaching students

As the new prime 750 computer spreads its way
through the heart of the College’s curriculum, the
Computer Services Staff and the Computer Committee
are working to help faculty and students to use it more
effectively.

New programs either currently in use or under con-
sideration include the Statistical Package for the Social
Sciences (SPSS), Computer Assisted Instruction
(CAI), computer workshops for both students and fac-
ulty, text printers, and, in the not too distant future, the
utilization of the system’s graphics capabilities.

SPSS is a package of computer print-outs which
enables students to statistically analyze patterns and
similarities in various situations. The economics and
sociology departments have been using the program
since October. Economics Professor Clark Ross and

’ Sociology Department Chairman Robert Ruth expect
to continue to use these packages in their classes.

CAI sets act as mechanical tutors, according to
Computer Services Director Bob DeSieno. They corre-
spond with students. on a one-to-one basis. They first
pose the student a question, and correct his answer if
the student answers incorrectly. They then explain the
method behind the correction. These answer and in-
quiry sessions help students to better understand the
subjects they are studying.

The Computer Services Center (CSC) expects a_

text printing terminal to arrive sometime winter term.
The text printers will process papers into type-written
pages. The present computer printers produce letter in

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981

a dot-matrix form: Dr. DeSieno ordered the text quali-
ty printer several weeks ago.

The computer also has te capability to sustain a
graphics printer, but the CSC has not been able to ap-
propriate the funds that would be required to install
one. Dr. DeSieno said the CSC probably will not in-
stall a graphics system until the faculty shows a greater
interest in establishing such a program. THe graphics
printer would translate mathematical formulas and the-

- ories into actual physical form, helping students to vis-

ualize their computations.

The Computer Committee has established a series
of workshops for members of the faculty and the stu-
dent body interested in learning to work with the com-
puter. These workshops run for one week with five ses-
sions, two hours per session. Computer Services Lia-
son Ed Trumbull will instruct students and Dr. DeSie-
no will work with the faculty. Workshop sessions con-

centrate on a basic introduction to the computer as well

as its general-use. No programming experience is re-
quired. Dr. DeSieno said he urges all meimbers of the
College community to participate so that the computer
can become as valuable and well used a resource as the
library. :

The Computer Committee, is an ad hoc organiza-
tion of advisors with little or no authority. The Com-
mittee is chaired by Dr. DeSieno, and other members
are: Dr. Clark Ross, Dr. Jerry Roberts, Dr. John
Brockaway and Dr. Ben Kleine This committee was
appointed by President Spencer after an earlier com-

mittee which appointed Dr. DeSieno to his post was
disbanded.

Although the faculty advisors are ineffectual in in-
fluencing actual decisions right now, President Spener
is selecting a nw committee that will have five faculty
and two student members. .

The present group last met before Thanksgiving,
when they discussed the matter of student access to the
terminals. The issue had been the subject of controver-
sy for quite some time, but was never resolved. Former
Committee member, German Professor Hansford
Epes, led the advisors in pushing for 24 hour use of the
terminals. Though Dr. DeSieno refused to do this be-
cause he feared vandalism and misuse of the system, he
compromised by extending the number of hours the
computer terminals are available.

Dr. Epes resigned his post before Thanksgiving be-
cause he felt “the Committee met too seldom to ac-
complish anything.” The Committee is not scheduled
to meet again.

The terminals are now open on weekends from 2
pm to 11 pm and on weekdays from 9 am to 11 pm.
They are located in the Center for Special Studies,
Martin and Dana science buildings, the library, the old

- computer room in the basement of Chambers, and the

psychology department, and one is projected for the all
night study room.

By John Marks 85. -

13
