3—

—The Davidsonian—March 27, 1981

Nick’s Flicks

‘’ma physiology nut. . .

An excellent week of films for the Davidson cinephile climaxes
on Wednesday when Fine Films shows Ingmar Bergman’s
masterpiece The Seventh Seal. Alluded to in last week’s column,
this feature by the Swedish master is a powerful fable set in

medieval Sweden. Antonius
° Blok, a knight returned from
Nick the Holy Land, finds his coun-

try dying of the plague. Death
Graham comes for him too, but in order
to win himself a reprieve he
plays the black-cowled figure at
chess, the stake being his soul,
a-game which he knows he cannot win. In a land full of
wandering gtoups of religious fanatics, flagellants and crucified
witches he and his squire take up with a band of traveling
players and other would-be survivors, making for the castle to
which Blok is returning. .

Pursued by the implacable figure of Death this group searches
in vain for ways to avoid the coming apocalypse, their travels

providing ample opportunity for Bergman to document the
nightmarish writhings of a doomed society.

Throughout all this, however, @ small thread of hope runs,
repeatedly allowed to divert our attention from the horrors of
disease; starvation, and death. The travelling players are led by
a sort of medieval nuclear family whose innocence, sheer
goodness, propensity for dreaming dreams and seeing visions

remain unscathed by the destruction around them. They alone
survive the final encounter with the figure of Death, and proceed
to travel onwards, a sign that there is at least some hope to be
salvaged from the wreckage of human society and spirituality
around them.

Like all of Bergman’s films this is powerful stuff—a friend of
mine of no particular religious belief claimed to be terrified by

it—but also an ultimately uplifting experience and thoroughly
deserves repeated viewings.

Earlier in the week, Pop Films is showing Alfred Hitchcock’s
Family Plot in Love on Friday at 8 and 10:30 p.m. Starring
Karen Black and Bruce Dern, this is the Master’s 53rd film and
concerns subterfuge and nefarious activities in the graveyard of
the family in question. The only body definitely not missing is
Uncle Alf’s own, as he makes his customary brief appearance in
the film. Go along and try to spot him.

Also on Friday, a classic of the British cinema will be shown
in Perkins at 2 p.m. under the auspices of the English
department. The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner,
adapted from the story by Alan Sillitoe, stars Tom Courtenay
as a delinquent given the chance to redeem himself in the eyes of
society and the prison governor by beating the young gentlemen
of the local prep school in a cross-country match.

It should provide an interesting contrast with East of Eden,
shown Wednesday, if only in terms of the differences in the
transatlantic image of the angry young man. Both are

film at least, major changes were made, replacing Sillitoe's
concern with his hero's psychopathology with a large amount of

stature of the protagonist. Even so it is bleak, uniquely English
stuff, Courtenay giving a performance in its own way just as
definitive as Dean's: with this film and the lightweight but
excellent Billy Liar under his belt a few years later, Courtenay
was for a while in danger of becoming the British cinema’s
answer to Antoine Doinel. He has since, of course, become a fine
actor of great range in maturity. James Dean, on the other
hand, got himself killed and immediately became a legend. I
there is a moral of sorts in that somewhere. .

Of the film reviews in all the papers in all the world, she
ap) in mine. If I may be permitted a small amount of
gra’ enthusiasm this week, I shall point out that the
Visulite is showing Casablanca on Friday and Saturday in
double bill with Woody Allen’s Play it Again, Sam, Forget
_ about this latter, and go and see Bogart and Bergman at their
very best in the film with more famous misquotations than any
other.. Full of very fine comedy and excellent direction by
Howard Hawkes, the greatest screen-lovers ever find them-
selv in North Africa threatened on every side by the Gestapo,

crime and a philandering French policeman played to
the hilt by Claude Rains.

Any further comment is utterly perfluous — what can one
oy shout pectactoh? 1f you've seen. it, then walk to
Charlotte if if you have, then see it again. Woody
Allen’s enthusiasm for it was definitely not. misplaced.’ Here’s

at you, kids.

adaptations from literary works, and in the case of the English,

fairly undigested. social criticism which arguably diminishes the.

Student creates new Marvel hero

By NEIL SONDOV
Staff Writer
As ‘“‘Matthew Everett” walks along the beach,
a strange object hurls itself across the sky and

crashes into the ocean. Everett su§ms out to the
wreckage and rescues a huge nine foot alien. Once.

back on the beach, the alien transmits a
telepathic message to Everett: ‘‘You shall become
the SENTINEL.”

Freshman Scot Myers inventor of ‘‘Sentinel,”’
has long been intrigued with cartooning and
science fiction. Myers’ cartoon creation ‘‘Sen-
tinel’’ or ‘‘Matthew Everett’ has been accepted
by Marvel Comics and will be presented in an
upcoming magazine.

“The first book I ever read was The Black
Stallion,”’ Myers said. “That got me hooked on

_ fiction, and I started reading a lot of my brother's —
books. He had a lot of science fiction. Then when
I saw Star Trek on T.V., that was it. I went.

crazy. Star Trek is my favorite and my
speciality.” .

A high school friend and fellow ‘“Trekkie”’
circulated a ‘‘Star Trek’’ news letter. Myers
picked up on the idea and started his own

_ newsletter, a sci-fi movie magazine called the

Library Computer. The Library Computer was
what Myers called a ‘‘fanzine.”’

“TI had connections in certain movie studios, so
sometimes the information released in my maga-
zine was well ahead of the national magazine. I
was on Gene Roddenberry’s (producer of ‘Star
Trek’’) personal mailing list, and that helped.”

“TI did all of the layouts and most of the writing
for the Library Computer’, Myers continued.
‘““My largest circulation was about 45, but for a
local fanzine, that’s pretty good.”

The Library Computer stopped publication
when Myers came to Davidson. However, Myers
is now at work on a new magazine, Spectre, due
next week.

“Basically, what I’ve done is taken the Library
Computer and expanded it,” Myers explained.
"Spectre will deal in science fiction, horror and
fantasy. I have people helping me with the
writing, and for the first time I have a business
manager. Spectre is more or less“& mini-maga-
zine, though not as large as newsstand maga-

. zines. The most I want is about two hundred

subscriptions.”

Myers’ interest in science fiction and his
artistic ability led to the creation of ‘‘Sentinel,”’ a
character which he hopes will premiere in a
Marvel Comics magazine by the end of the
summer.

, “A friend of mine and I developed this
character, and I drew him up. There were a lot of
problems with the drawings. . .I’m a physiology
nut, so the muscles and all were pretty exact.

Marvel Comics thought ‘‘Sentinel’’ had too much
genitalia. You ever notice that most superheroes
don’t seem to have genitalia? Most of them don’t
even wear underwear, like Iron Man.”

Since introducing ‘‘Sentinel” to Marvel, Myers
has been touching him up and making him part of
what he calls the ‘‘Marvel universe.’”’ All Marvel

superheroes fit into a structured story and time
line. According to Myers, ‘‘Every time the
Sentinel’s debut is put off, I have to do a lot of
rewriting to make sure he stays within the Marvel
scheme of things.”

‘“‘The thing that Marvel liked most about
‘Sentinel’ is that he’s human. He’s not ashamed
to cry or display emotion,”’:Myers said.

When asked how much of himself was in

“Sentinel,’’ Myers replied, ‘‘There’s going to be
some of me in anything I write. The ‘Sentinel’s’
emotions are pretty much my own.”

“I don’t like Iran, so. the ‘Sentinel’s’ not going
to like. Iran,” he added, ‘‘but that’s about as far
as it goes.”

q 757 E. Rocky River Road
$92-5107

THE HAIR COTTAGE
lowner/stylist: Jane Schenck

Another outstanding job by

BARGER.
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good builders since 1925”

Post Office Box 30 /MA.Wicker
364 North Main St. President and treasurer
Mooresville, NC 28115 Ben Millsaps

. Exec. vice president and secretary

