THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Dear Gentlemen of the Board of Trustees,

The 1980-81 school year has been an eventful one for the
College. The dining Commons and the two new dorms neared
completion. The $1 million Computer Center received the final
go-ahead. The faculty roundly rejected the Educational Policy
Committee’s comprehensive proposals for revamping the
College curriculum, and later passed a proposal for a sex-blind,
merit-based admissions policy. Black students discussed theiry
views at an open forum for the first time and staged a
widely-supported protest against the Kappa Alpha fraternity’s
Old South weekend. Students discussed reverting to a fraternity
bid system on Patterson Court. The Athletic Department went

three basketball coaches in three weeks. A
series of illustrious speakers, philosophers, authors, and
politicians came to the campus— many of them proving how
very ordinary all men really are. A student got shot at Hattie’s
Night, an annual beer party. And, in one farcial week in
January, nearly half the campus succumbed to the flu.

The year has left a legacy of some new and many old issues to
face. Some of the most important are:

Equality

Although there is little or no overt sexism or racism at
Davidson, women and blacks remain second class citizens. The
2:1 male/female admissions ratio discriminates against women,
making their sex count in some cases more heavily in the final
admissions decision than their ability as students or their value
as human beings. Women athletes get no scholarships, a
violation of Title IX. They receive only 9% of the athletic
budget and unequal use of sports facilities. Yet they excel: this
year Davidson had two state championship teams—both
women’s teams.

Besides one black professor and two black college employees
above the janitorial level, Davidson's 45 black students have no
black role models here. Despite a concerted effort by the
Administration, the College has been unable to find more black
professors and to attract larger numbers of black students.

We. hope you. will seriously consider establishing a
merit-based admissions process in consonance with Davidson's
ethical ideals, that you will support the establishment of athletic
scholarships and equal treatment for women athletes, and that
you will pool knowledge and resources to recruit black faculty
members and students, establishing a special scholarship fund
‘for students if necessary. - | id

Personnel Policy

Last year the visiting athletic evaluation committee noted the
lack of ‘‘a clearly defined procedure for receiving feedback on the
quality of job done” and “‘the ambiguity of the schedule for
salary and contract negotiations.” This problem, apparently
ubiquitous to educational institutions, extends throughout the
College. Professors complain of receiving vague evaluations of
their performance, or none at all. Temporary appointees are
subjected to tremendous emotional stress by being kept
dangling concerning their future. The College Constitution
places the College under no obligation to notify
appointees of their employment status by a specific date.

We recommend that you review evaluation and renewal
procedures to ensure that there is open and timely communica-

Always, the bottom line is money. Faculty salaries were
raised 14% this year—but student fees rose 14% as well.
Tuition’ cannot go up indefinitely. The College needs a new
athletic complex, curricular changes, more faculty, moré money
for minor sports. But first, the College needs a Vice-President
for Development. We recommend a unified effort by the entire
Board to hire a V.-P. for Development by the Fall. The 1987
Program ‘has already suffered setbacks from inflation and
changing leadership. The vacancy of the V.-P. for Development
position cripples the program even more.

The endowment has done better these past 18 months than it
did in the past. We recommend, however, that you set a specific
policy to re-evaluate the investment firms’ performances every
' year or at least every two years.

Communication

Finally, there is the ever-present problem of communication |

between’ the various parts of an institution. You visit the

times a year to review and set policy. In the.
too few channels for information between .

The Campus Forum

Apology

To the Students and Faculty:

This letter is p rt of my effort
to apologize to the Davidson
community for my actions dur-
ing Spring Awards Convoca-
tion. By drinking in a non-
designated drinking area and
taking a half-gallon of vodka
from the alumni office, which
has since been returned un-
opened, I violated the trust and
the rules of Davidson College.
For any defamation of the
reputation and character of this
school resulting from my ac-
tions, I am truly sorry.

I addressed the faculty at
their meeting on May 5 ex-
plaining my involvement, my
punishment, and my regrets.
Will Terry spent a great deal of
time in reaching a decision on
an appropriate penalty. To have
come so close to not graduating
with my classmates is a most
frightening experience, believe
me.
Take a word of advice—
follow the rules that you accep-
ted when you matriculated to
Davidson. These rules are rea-
sonable, and are meant to mold
us into responsible adults.
Don’t jeopardize your invest-
ment in yourself by. indulging in
irrational and irresponsible be-
havior. There are ways to have
fun without endangering your
opportunity and honor of atten-
ding Davidson.

Patrick A. Pope’81 .

No justice

‘To the Editor:

As Davidson seniors, we

respect and revere our honor:

system for what it proclaims to
be and for what it could be. On
retrospect we do not, find fault
with the honor system itself,
but with the manner in which it
is enforced. Davidson prides
itself on instilling a moral
attitude in.its students. Per-
sonal integrity, honesty, and
fairness are ex-

pected and demanded of David-

son students by the faculty and

community, and the students

themselves. Yet something

seems amiss when sanctions
-imposed for violations’. of the
Honor Code or Code of Respon- ’
sibility are not commensurate —

with the nature or the offense or

when sanctions for similar vio-
lations are glaringly inconsis-
tent.

Where is the justice which
Davidson professes to so
highly esteem when student
punishments are lessened by
virtue of the fact that their
parents contribute substantial
sums of money to the college?
Where is justice when athletes
are granted lenient punishment
in order to ensure a winning
season? Where is justice when
similar violations are not pun-

:ished by similar sanctions?
‘Does Davidson College really

want to show its graduates that
wrong is contingent upon the
benefits the perpetrator has to
offer the college or is relative to
who witnesses the violation? Is
wrong any more wrong if the
Board of Visitors is present to
see the offense? Is wrong any
less wrong if Samuel Speneer or
Will Terry are not present at the
time of the violation? The
answers to these questions
should concern not only upper-
classmen with remaining years
at Davidson under this system,
but also seniors like ourselves
who would wish for future
classes the same benefits in a
Davidson education as we have
experienced.

In a recent trial before the
Honor Council, Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry called into
question the competency of the
students to govern their own
affairs and mete out impartial
punishment to their peers. We
would ask Dean Terry to what
extent is student government
really student government and
to what extent is it an extension
of the will of first floor Cham-
bers? Clearer . delineations
should be made of the lines of
authority involved in the prose-
cution of offenders. Further, we

again in the future.
Inappropriate and _inconsis-
tent retribution for breaches of
the Honor Code and the Code of
Responsibility can only serve to
diminish the respect that all
Davidson students hold for
their honor system. The system
is that college’s biggest draw-
ing card. Unquestionably a
Davidson education is inextri-
cably bound up with the stu-
dents’ faith in the moral tenets
the Honor Code upholds—
honor, truth, and justice. When
the student body observes their
elected representatives and the
administration not subscribing
to the same morality they
profess to be defending in
prosecuting violators of this
system it can lead to nothing
less than the disintegration of
the integrity of the college as a
whole.
Allison Lewis ’81
Paige Hall ’81
Laura Babcock ’81
Cathy Andrews ’81
Philip Howerton ’81
Cary Vernon '81
Robert Waller ’81
@f Dillard 81
Danny Pellarine ’81
Frank Capella ’81
William P. Singer ’82

Kathy Bolvston ‘81
David Turner ‘81

Tunes, tunes

To the Editor:

What it is.

I spent half this year writing
a song for my independent
study. Hope y’all will come hear
it Sunday afternoon, 4 o'clock
in the 900 Room. It’s gonna be
real good. Pass it on. Another
scoop for The Davidsonian,
huh?

Tunes! Tunes! Tunes!

would call for a uniform codifi- Wear something nice.
cation of honor violations and Great.
commensurate punishments to David Banks ‘82
ensure that the injustices dealt More m
in the past are not tolerated Ca pus
Forum on page 8
ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN =
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO
JAMES BARRAT : DAVIO MGEURRY™,
editor editor
DANNY ARMISTEAD DAVID MCCURRY
‘ ergo sum editor menager
JIA CROWE” WARREN. LACKEY
lwr ancl oi SCOT: MYERS © '
BETHIFINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, . SCOTT
LAURIE assistants © - ELIZABETH BRAZELL,
WALT Production sesocietes © GILL APPLETON ‘JIM RUMLEY, | Staff
Ohints SALLY NEAL MARK LD, Darkroom technicians @ DAVE BANKS, Nihil ©

