Sherman’s reply. ...

To the Editor:

On Friday; November 6, the Davidsonian pub-
lished an article entitled “Gentlemen Only.” While
most members of the Philanthropic Society continue to
keep an open mind towards admitting female members
into the Society, we also reserve the right to discuss the
matter and to act in what we consider to be the best in-
terests of the Society and of the College community as

a whole. I am sure that most members all more than .

willing to discuss the vote in question with anyone who
is interested — but, if you must quote us, please do it
accurately! Unfortunately, Cathi Dumas, in her. writ-

ing of the abovementioned article, neglected the whole

notion of accuracy. ‘The purpose of this letter, then, is

to clear the air, so to speak, ie igen damon ined

happened.

First, Howard Browne’s “eloquent answer: ‘no
comment,’” was made with the ‘explanation that the
meeting in question was officially closed and: that Soci-
ety approval was needed if any official statement was
to be made. He made clear, however, that. we were
willing to discuss the matter. Secondly, | question the
comment that “Mary and I would never have known of
the vote from the preceding meeting. ~
question I was asked before the meeting began was
“Sherman, why don’t you want women in the Phi Soci-
ety?” My answer to this’question was not “tradition,”
but rather that there seemed to be no justifiable and im-

mediate reason to change the Society’s constitution at |

this time since women can already attend Society meet-
ings. Also, nowhere did I say’(or even imply) that
women were “more social and less intellectual than
men.” What I told Cathi was, in fact, that this decision
should “not imply that women are less intellectual . . .”

The other important factor which Cathi failed to
mention is that the Eumenean Society does admit
women and that several members of Phi offered to help
rebuild the membership of that Society. Cathi also neg-
lected to mention that most Phi Society meetings are
open to anyone and that membership i is only rarely a re-
quirement. The Phi Society doesn’t deny women ad-
mission to our meetings. In fact, we welcome them as
evidenced by Cathi’s insightful visit.

As for the matter of female membership, that is an
issue upon which deliberation will continue. Since the
Society vote, much interest has been aroused among
both men and women. As more light continues to be
shed on the matter, I hope we will keep an open mind.

Sherman Aten "83

..more from Sherman

To the Editor:

Recent Davidsonian issues have bothered me, not
because they did not look good, or because they were
not well written — in fact, most of us would agree that
the style of the paper shows marked improvements
over past years — but rather because they were blatent-
ly inaccurate. It seems to me to be the responsibility of

an editor to take precautions to insure the accuracy of

the information which his newspaper relays. Unfortu-
nately, in at least three instances Mr. Siman has not on-
ly failed to realize, but ignored this responsibility, The
Davidsonian has allowed unwarranted; inaccurate at-
tacks on the SGA, has printed opinion letters “written”

by people the-editor knew did not exist, and has printed

an afticle regarding the Philanthropic Society’s mem-

bership requirements: which he knew was filled with
as M"’Siman is'a member of the organiza-°

half:
tion and attended the meeting to which: Cathi Dumas

referred. If this letter seems to be-an attack ort John Si- :

man, it is not. It is rather an attack on bad j

On Sunday evening, after the release of the Davidson

a ee

.” since the first:

appeared, M' Siman accosted me to ask if I would re-
spond to her column. I answered, “Probably.” Mr. Si-
man then replied “Oh, good. I hope we can get a good
debate going on this thing.” It seems to me that sensa-
tionalism for the sake of controversy and good journal-
ism are strange bedfellows indeed. John seemed elated
that after allowing inaccurate ad hominem attacks upon
several campus organizations, finally we would have a
“good debate.”

This approach to journalism bothers and, frankly,
frightens me. Good, insightful, accurate journalism, it
seems to me, as a principle in practice is essential to
good government and the practice of representative de-
mocracy. The media, if used wisely, is a potent, posi-
tive force in a system of representative government.
However, many good politicians and others in the pub-
lic light have seen their jobs lost and futures shattered.
due to partisan or ill-informed publicity. Certainly, Ca-
thi’s article. will do little to shatter. the lives of the
members of the Phi Society. That is to say, I certainly
haven’t lost any sleep over it. But, the course which the
Davidsonian seems to be taking this year should be a
fitting warning that those who possess power also pos-

sess the responsibility to use it wisely. After all, some

day John Siman may be editor of The Wall Street Jour-
nal.
Sherman Allen ’83

P.S. John, even “opinions” should be grounded in in-
formed thought, if not in truth. Writing one’s opinions
does not free the author of defending the validity of his
/ her statements.

Questionable Integrity

To the Editor:

After careful searching, we found that the sup-
posed co-writers of “BSC on the wrong track” (James
P. Murdock and James Carson IV) are not members of

the class of ’84, in fact they are not students at David- -

son College. They do not exist. It disappoints us to
know that the editors of the Davidsonian were aware of
this and still published these names as co-writers of the
letter.

This suggests that John Siman has no concern for
the truth, but rather, dilegently searches out for trivial

discrepancies that make for colorful reading. For a.

newspaper to even think of supporting false informa-

tion and such irresponsible behavior is unnerving. In

the future we would hope that what is read in the Da-
vidsonian is a clear representation of the truth.

The Executive Council

of the Black Student Coalition

Two of the names signed to James Moore’ s letter of
30 October were pseudonyms that James uses. He was
the sole author of the letter. The Davidsonian was
wrong in not removing the bogus names, and we apol-
ogize to anyone who was misled by their appearance.

Islamic America?

To the Editor:

Everyone has had his or her fill of the sordid
AWAGC’s drama by now. It was a bit like the hostages
in Iran: after a’ while the whole thing becomes so
much. fodder. for media cannons. ‘The danger with

such an overbearing an degenerate media is that we _ ;
- become saturated and this blind:to the greater signi~'

ficance of an “tissue.” But it is very ‘important to give
some thought to ‘the i

asking: “How will this be remembered
what will people think in

retrospect?” .
- Actually, it was’an: article out-of. the Naw: York ‘
Times (19 Oct. cin canamian ‘Heilbroner that set

np eae
AWAC’s. and hostages. -My preferred, method is:
saeeanunaeiel :

me to thinking along these lines. The article was en-
titled “In Hoover’s Wake, Helmsman Reagan,” ne it
entailed a comparison between Presidents He

and Reagan. For those who have forgotten, Ho

was the President who ushered in the Great Degree
sion, and when faced with the greatest economic
slump anyone had ever seen, M" Hoover advocated a
policy of minimal government intervention. M°
Hoover was unceremoniously booted out and the US
did not recover until. World War II..M‘ Heilbroner
asks whether M'Reagan has not also “missed the
point” just like his ideological grandfather:M" Hoov-

er. Will President Reagan be remembered for his fail-

ure to understand that Tugged Individualism and lais-
sez-faire Capitalism are dead — and for analogous
catastrophes? Let us hope not. ;

Iwas also led to wonder, jin the wake of President
Reagan’s performance at Caucun, whether his stance
there will be remembered by posterity as ‘Neanderthal
Capitalism’s last primal grunt. But then it hit me: Mr.
Reagan will be remembered for ‘ushering in Islamic
America. This idea follows from the tendency
throughout history for the dominant culture to also
dominate in terms of arts, sciences, and religion. The
reason most of us are roughly Judeo-Christian in our
upbringing is that European culture. was so adapt at
spreading itself and its religion around. But now,
with the huge economic leverage of OPEC — which
is largely Arabic / Islamic in composition — the be-
lief systems and traditions of Arab culture are the as-
cendant ones. We are simply feeling the “dominant

. culture” syndrome. And M’ Reagan is simply playing

the cards that his myriad of poll-takers and advisors
dealt him. So long, Judeo-Christian ethic! The

AWAC’s “victory” in Washington shows that Ameri-

ca’s leaders not only understand which side of the
bread is buttered but also who has most of the butter
today. ,

I hope we all understand the threat posed by Isla-
miac America. First, praying in the direction of Mec-
ca five times each day would aversely effect our al-
ready low industrial productivity — to say nothing of
traffic. Imagine, too, what would happen if everyone
went on vacation during the holy month of Ramadan!
Of course, we would have fundamentalist Islamic
television shows and a politically active Mullah Ma-
jority. But then again, we could have more than one
wife, and if we were ever low on cash or needed a
new car, we could always trade her in. A big problem
from an economist’s standpoint would be that the
new demand for harem eunuchs would swell our al-
ready oversized service-sector. But on the othér
hand, think of the market (225 million strong) for in-
door / outdoor prayer rugs.

Of course, the problem with this sort of specula-
tion is that you can get all worried about nothing. But
just to be safe, watch what they start including in the
Humanities Program under “Dominant Cultures in
the: Western Tradition.” These are subtle questions.

James Gelly ’82

Trouble at ATO

To the Editor:

For the past several years, we have watched: with
growing concern the decline and fall of many
campus traditions, among them Freshman beanies, the

Court of Control, mandatory chapel, and the appear-

ance of women at Davidson. Wea fae} that Genetic mézs-

< Jures are both called for and justified.

Therefore, we’ are.taking over the campus. We
have annexed. the. two. unclaimed. Patterson. Court
houses; the rest of Davidson will soon follow. We have
the will. We have the-ability.. We have the means. And
fee gare aacena Tarces ob te worth, ‘unite!

/ “P. Quiggly Lazzaro
" for the Fighting Sheep

‘Senin anseiaitin ae 5
