Perimeter complaints
Housing Director wants students to clean up;
students want Housing Director to clean up

by Tim Whalen ‘82

Housing Director Bill Bolding sent a memoran-
dum to the residents..of perimeter houses on North
Main Street on 24 September ordering them to re-
move furniture from their yards, porches, and roofs.
He said the furniture, “makes the area look like a
slum,” and he threatened, “We will truck off any fur-
niture left out on porches the first of the week.”

Several students have complained that Mr.
Bolding’s order was unfair, for the Housing Office
failed to clean the perimeter houses over the summer.
Thus, they contend, the Housing Office’s neglect,
not their porch furniture, is the main cause of the un-
sightliness of the houses.

Grey House residents were the only people to
move their porch furniture inside. They had taken the
chair from their roof before the memorandum was
distributed.

Residents of Lafferty House moved in their fur-
niture because of the threat, but have now moved it
back out and intend to leave it out, according to senior
Lafferty House resident, Jim Troutman.

According to senior Henderson House resident
Lori Boardman, she and her housemates wanted to
get rid of the couch last year’s residents had left on
their porch, so she and her housemates moved it out
into the yard where it would be easier to pick it up.
The couch was still inthe yard this Wednesday. .

Residents of Julia Johnston House and Martin

Manor did not remove their furniture, nor do they in-

tend to. Mr. Bolding said they have improved the ap-
pearances of their houses satisfactorily.
_ Mr. Bolding said on Wednesday that students
have, “moved all of the ratty stuff,” and, “it looks
fine.” He said that he does not expect to remove any
of the remaining furniture, thoug he said he still
might.
Comgiilats from residents

The memorandum implied that Mr. Bolding was
telling the students to remove their furniture because
of “many complaints from residents: of the town re-
garding the appearance of the perimetrer houses aong
North Main Street.” He said on Wednesday that he
and his staff have received abvout six complaints. He
assumed the complaints had all come from different
people. Junior Bill Seel; who:works in the :Housing
Office, said:he received two of the complaints. Mr.

Bolding and Bill both said that residents complained —

_ about the effect the furniture had on the general ap-
pearance of the neighborhood, and that they wert

afraid their property values would drop. Neither Mr.

Bolding nor Bill would say who complained, other
than that they were residents of North Main Street.

to say they had improved the appearance of their fur-
niture. He said he would “be happy to talk to the stu-
dents, but they never talk to me,” and, “A lot of peo-
ple complain, but never come to us. They assume that
we know that their door sticks without their even tell-
ing us.”

Jim and his housemate, senior Rip Singer, both
said that they and their housemates have all been to
see Mr. Bolding at least once, though never concern-
ing the porch furniture, and that Mr. Bolding has told
them not to bother him about their house anymore.
They said Mr. Bolding told them to direct all of their
requests and complaints to the off-campus resident
advisor, senior John Teague. Mr. Bolding denied ey-

er telling anyone to stop coming to see him. \

Grey House resident and SGA off-campus sena-
tor, junior Melissa McKeithen said that she and se-

_ nior Grey House resident Lucy Phillips went to see

Mr. Bolding the day after they received the memo-
randum. Mr. Bolding was out of town, so they talked
to his secretary, Mrs. Gracia Slater, instead. Melissa
said she assumed that Mrs. Slater had passed on their
comments.

Last Thursday Melissa went to President
Spencer’s Open Office to discuss the problem. She
said that Dr. Spencer recommended that she speak to
Dean of Students Will Terry about the problem. She
added that Dr. Spencer agreed that it would be good if
the houses ‘had porch furniture, and that it was bad
that the houses had not been cleaned before students
arrived for classes this fall.

Four perimeter house residents said they started

' the year submitting their comp sein and requests to

Mr. Bolding, but they stopped bécaiise they felt the
Housing Office was not responding. Mr. Bolding
said that he forwards all work orders to the physical
plant, and that he does not follow up on them unless

* the students tell him the order has not been filled. He
said, “the physical plant was swamped at the begin-
ning of the school year. I sent in hundreds of work
orders:

Physical Plant gets the job done

_ Some residents of Martin Manor said they have’

started talking directly to the physical plant, and that
the physical plant meets their requests promptly.
~ They added that their front door wouldn’t close, and
the square foot holes in their back, wall upstairs were
repaired last week through the Housing Office’s initi-
ative.
They confirmed that-they had not spoken to Mr.
Bolding about their front door.
According to seniors Liza White, Linda Crucia-
ni, and Mary Windham, they presented Mr. Bolding
during the first week of school with a page covered

rude to them when they attempted to explain the con-
dition of their house.

On the other hand, Lori said Henderson House
residents have not had too much trouble getting the
Housing Office to handle their work orders. She said
when school started there were seven desks for six
people at Henderson House, but that three of them
were broken. She said a few days after they filed their
work order, they put the broken desks on their‘porch,
and that the Housing Office then quickly had the:two
repaired and removed the third. Lori said, “He’sdone
pretty well.”

Senior Lafferty House resident Marvin Rogers

_ put his foot through the floor as he was walking into a

closet during the first week of school. The Housing
Office quickly had the hole repaired, According to
Rip. He also said that it took Lafferty House residents
three weeks to the the College to do a follow-up
spraying for a flea infestation they had at the begin-
ning of the year. He said of Mr. Bolding, “He’s just
not very coGperative.”

Parent complains _

Mrs. Betsy White, mother of Liza and freshman
William White, said, “I think it’s ridiculous for them
to complain about porch furniture when the College
left the inside so filthy” for returning students. She
added, “If people pay the same rent to the College,
they should receive the same cleaning service.” She
said, “When we came in there, the house was just
filthy. I’m sure nothing had been done all summer.”
Mary said thet the only apparent work that had been
done on the house during the summer was that the kit-
chen had been painted. She added that the painters
made a mess they did not.cleanup.

Students who: live in Grey: House and Martin
Manor worked to’clean their houses before school
started. The Housing Office reimbursed Grey House
residents for the cost of their cleaning supplies. Mar-
tin Manor residents do not plan to ask to be reim-
bursed because they have lost their receipts.

Martin Manor residents said Mr. Bolding told
them he did not have their houses cleaned over the
summer because he did not know which furniture in
the house belonged to last year’s residents and which
belonged to this year’s occupants, The résidéiits
pointed out that the dust and filth did not belong to an-
yone, nor did anyone want it. They added that there
are large storage areas that could have held whatever
furniture would have to be moved in order to clean.

Mr. Bolding said the same cleaning crew that
cleans the dorms was supposed to clean the perimeter
houses. He added that, in addition to people leaving
furniture in rooms of unoccupied houses, some of the
houses had students living in them all summer, so the
