8—The Davidsonian—February 13, 1981

Nix Flix

Several years ago my worst fears concerning the natre of
American post-graduate eduaction were partially reinforced
when I came across a Ph.D. thesis on the James Bond film and

novel as a coherent body of work. This presented a lucid case for

007as an archetypical crusading Christian hero rescuing damsels
in distress from a series of
Satanic adversaries. Well,

personally ‘I'd always
viewed James as aviolent
‘paid killer smoking,
drinking, and whoring his
way through the interna-
tional fleshpots on the

basis of nothing more

substantial than a loose holster, an over-developed ego and a
few fast one-liners. Just how good he is at this specialized form
of activity can be seen in Love on Friday night at 8 and 10:30
when Pop Films show The Spy Who Loved Me, the third of
Roger Moore's excursions as Britain's No. 1 secret agent, and
probably his best so far. Even afficionados of Mr. Sean Connery
will concede that this is a stylish movie as James heroically and
singlehandedly battles with a metal-dentured villain called
Jaws, puts the sparkle back in Barbara Bach’s eyes, wreaks
sophisticated havoc around the world and saves the West for
democracy. And that’s just before breakfast.

Altogether a different matter is next week’s Fine Film
Midnight Cowboy starring Jon Voight and Dustin Hoffman
(Feb. 18, 8p.m., Love Aud.). Hailed in its day for its trenchant
social realism and honest depiction of seamy life in the urban
underground, it evidently struck some kind of chord in most
people’s minds at the beginning of the seventies: now it tends to
look merely tatty, slightly self-concious, as sad as its
protagonists. Voight is the pretty Texan naif intent upon
making it as a stud in the big city: Hoffmann the shabby
small-time crook who befriends him as. he discovers that the
streets of New York are paved with almost anything except
gold. As their relationship grows and their pathetic dreams are
in turn shattered, a quite genuine humanity based upon mutual
need arises between these two initially unsympathetic
characters. Steering some kind of a middle course between sheer
disgust and maudlin wallowing, Hoffmann injects some genuine
comedy into the proceedings, albeit of a fairly black nature. Best
of all is his rebarbative exchange with a passing motorist upon
the latter’s incursion into ‘‘his’’ (Hoffmann’s) space while

‘crossing the road. However the relentless stripping away of the

illusions of the local-boy-makes-good variety of the Great
American Dream continues and these two hopeless losers —com-
manding by now our sympathy if not our respect —attempt to
cut out with their own portion of the Big Apple. Their final,
doomed journey to Florida achieves genuine pathos and the
ending is a choker. See it.

As this is the last film column of the Winter Term I have to
take the chance now of talking about some of the other films
shown between now and the Spring break. Most notable of these
is Michael Cimino’s 1978 opus The Deer Hunter which the Pop
Films committee will present on Saturday, Feb. 21, in Love.
Presumably in a last bid to convince you that the prospect of
impending examinations should be concentrating your mind
wonderfully. I can only ascribe the extraordinary success of this
film to the fact that the Great American Public evidently prefers
its national traumas remythologised into melodrama rather than
into film which aspires, however wrongly, to the condition of
Art—as in Coppola’s Apocalypse Now. If ever there were a film
which takes one basic, powerful idea (‘‘One bullet... one shot’’)
and turns it into a three-hour bludgeoning of the senses failing
either to edify or to inform, then this—alas—is it. On the plus
side, de Niro is a talented actor here given full-rein to his
abilities and some of the scenes—particularly the withdrawal
from Saigon—are excellent. Too often however the film eschews
tension and suspense for simple inflammatory violence, a
technique which if anything weakens*the power of the
historically accurate Russian Roulette games. I confess that the
final, fatuous singing of God Bless America has always
absolutely baffled me. One only has to compare Coppola’s
masterpiece and Kurtz’ final, agonised invocation of destruction
upon his forces to see its hollowness. Perhaps patriotism is also
the last refuge of inferior film-makers. Go along and decide for
yourselves, exams will still be a full week-end away.

Nick
Graham.

GET-A-WAY .

Si all day and come hore to cuddle up by the |

replace in sockided hideaways
.\.. ~ét.the Great Smokies. oy
“Thirty dollars for two; 835 forfour nightly.

- Mountain’ Brook Cottages . oo
Ri. a Box 301, ‘Syi—a, NC phone 7O4/$86-4329

‘ DEAR PREPS, -... 7
_. I have’ a.beautiful- jgifliriend
_ from. an infamous girls’ school
‘in South Carolina: She comes to
. ‘Davidson. ‘three. weekends a
|. month. The problem is: that
-“ everytime she comes her add-a-.-

Love Letters entertains with finality

By TIM BETHEA
Staff Writer

Arnold Wesker’s Love Let-
ters on Blue Paper is the last of
this season’s Workshop pérfor-
mances, and it signals a ‘‘last
chance”’ in more than of way.

First, the action of the play
revolves around the possibly
fatal illness of Victor Marsden,
one of the characters. Victor’s
imminent death affects his wife
Sonia and his close friend
Maurice Stapleton. The overrid-
ing concern of these characters
is trying to understand the
meaning in life and death.

This play is provocative and
emotionally moving. The au-
thor seems to challenge the
certainty of life after death. If
the play offers no solution to the
uncertainty it raises, at least it
brings some clarity to the crisis.

Clearly, we are always in the
‘last chance’”’ situation. Any
moment might possibly be our
last. Likewise, any day, any
week, month or year might be
the last of our living time. The
problem is making that time
count. Before we can under-
stand how to give our lives
meaning, we must recognize the
limitations of our existences.
Love Letters reminds us of the
short time interval which separ-
ates the quick from the dead.

Love Letters also allows us to
see two human concerns at
play: the need for survival, and
the need for emancipation from
pain. Victor wants to survive

and go on living, and even in
the event of his death, Sonia
and.Maurice must go on living.
The survivors must be able to
bury the dead’ and press on.

Victor looks for some assurance —

of an after-life, of ‘‘a self-aware-
ness unconfined by physical
existence,” but finds none. It is
harrowingly simple to substi-
tute ourselves in the place of
Victor, and wonder: ‘‘How do I
live? How can I be after death?”’

These characters appear to be
left with only the act of living
for assurance. They can only
celebrate life and cherish the joy
they find in each other. That is
all.

Love Letters indicates that
we can celebrate ourselves
through our human relation-
ships, without any need for
despair. It is Sonia, ‘‘like a
frustrated messenger from
God,” who tells Victor that he
has done a good job; he has give
her life meaning.

Secondly, this week’s produc-
tion also signals the last chance
to see a’ Workshop play this
year. These plays mean more
than passing time and gaining
course credits. They represent
communal acts of celebration.
As an audience, we participate
in these plays and have our
parts to perform. Most of us no
longer have the distinction of
standing as groundlings, crack-
ing nuts with our teeth and
hollering at the performers, but
our elevation to the seated tiers

Beads of wisdom from The Preps

has not cancelled our roles. —

We go to see and be with the
actors. Our curiosity. about
ourselves, about our survival
and our emancipation brings us
into the theater. We celebrate
ourselves by being there, by
sharing the play experience
together.

Love Letters on Blue Paper
has received acclamatory re-
views since it first appeared as a
short story. Wesker then a-
dapted the story as a movie for
television (BBC), and finally
wrote the play version in 1977.
Love Letters was produced by
the Folger Theatre in Washing-
ton last year to sell-out crowds.
Though Wesker is not widely
known in the United States, he
is among the top contemporary
British playwrights in England,
according to Drama Professor
Rupert Barber. Senior Mark
Halton, director of the play,
believes this performance in the
Workshop may be the first
amateur presentation of this
play in the country.

The actors for Love Letters
are, Seniors Sheri Gravett and
James Baskin, and Sophomore
James Funsten.

The show will be presented
tonight and tomorrow night at 7
p.m. in the Workshop of the
Cunningham Fine Arts Build-
ing. Tickets may be reserved at
the box office from 2 to 5 p.m.
or bought at the door before
curtain. General admission is
$1.

Davidson preps make clothes connection

By THE PREPS
Staff Correspondents

A national resurgence of the
traditional or “‘preppy”’ style of
clothing has prompted a ready
market for such exploitative
guides asThe Official Preppy
Handbook and the National
Lampoon’s Are You a Preppie
poster. How this trend is reflec-
ted in Davidson's social metro-
polis is the subject of inquiry
and advice offered this week by
THE PREPS. _

Traditionally conservative,
Davidson’s fashions have al-
ways reflected the values and
tastes of its students. However,
our prep community, like many
other small and academically
prestigious college communities
(e.g. Williams, Amherst, Ha-
verford), has been forced to
admit a student body selected
from a wide variety of social and
economic backgrounds.

Although prevalent, the prep
is a slowly dying and already di-
luted species at Davidson. But
hark, the preppy revival hits,
and suddenly Davidson's dwin-
dling prepy is still the subject of
student questions and com-
ments.

The following letters repre-

_ sent only a fraction of the ~

number we. have already re-
ceived.. ;

.. bead chain has:several more

beads on it. I’ve heard some
strange stories about this as-
pect of add-a-beads. What do
you think?

BUGGERED IN BELK ’84
DEAR BUGGER,

I’m afraid your fears are
realistic. Add-a-bead chains are
highly symbolic. Most girls will
admit ‘they add beads to their

er, was Catherine the Great.
Her collection seemed to multi-
ply like bunnies. In fact, most
Humes students already know
that Catherine’s insatiable pen-
chant for add-a-beads by the
dozen probably caused her
death.

Bugger, before sentencing
your girlfriend take a good look

KA pledge F. Garcia leading ‘‘small group” charge.

chains in a logical fashion. Al-
though these systems vary
slightly, our intensive research
has revealed a key rule of
thumb: the fewer beads the
better!

The add-a-bead is a pheno-
menon steeped in tradition and
history, dating back to ancient

‘Rome. Messalina, wife of the
senescent emperor Claudius,
-. was an avid add-a-bead collec-
tor. Her chain was: undisput-
_ably ‘the largest in- town. All.
attempts to: surpass Messa-

--lina's magnificent collection |
.. were futile (often fatal).

History’s most ambitious

add-a-bead enthusiast, ‘howev-

at her beads. Are they all gold?
Does she wear a variety of
brown cat’s eye beads? If so,
avoid her like the plague. These
girls are generally contagious.
They are usually basketball
groupies and all have. been
snaked by the Tank. OUR
ADVICE: Keep this tuna under

‘ wraps for all but the biggest of

weekends. In the meantime,

‘date a nice coed with a plain

gold:chain. «
. THE PREPS
‘DEAR PREPS,

I am a freshman Cosmetics,
major ‘from Queens. I’m really
peeved at you Davidson Boys.

(See Prep, page 10)
