10—The Davidsonian—March 27, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

All of the recent clamor concerning the basketball coach has
been surprising to many onlookers but not to us at BB and DB.
We predicted this would happen last year. In fact, we predicted
a lot of things. But those forecasts have all run out, so it’s time
for another set of BB and DB’s Clairvovant Clues.

(1) Eddie Biedenbach will get a job as a hotdog vendor at
Toledo Mud Hens’ baseball games. He will set a record for most
weiners sold at one Saturday

The Brick Bros. doubleheader. Later he will be
fired after verbally lashing a fan
and the who didn’t have the correct
change.
. (2) The members of the
Doughboys Davidson College Bow! Team

— — ___ will all suffer nervous break-
downs as a result of losing to Maryland, the world’s dumbest
school. After frontal lobotomies are performed, each member
will transfer to State U. where they will be hailed as intellectual

. —-- a

(3) The Davidson Basketball team will once again become a
national power. Coach Hussev will become a household word.
Rich DiBenedetto will be named Player of the Year and be
drafted by the Los Angeles Lakers. After signing a 10 year
billion dollar contract, he will disappear.

(4) The SPE’s will have a formal and get dates who are not
freshman coeds. This year’s formal looked like a hall meeting in
Richardson. Good job fellas.

(5) Dean of Students Dean Terry will leave his job to take a
similar post at the College of Charleston. However, after a week
he will return to D.C., saying that he hadn't gotten a chance to
talk his decision over with students. The College of Charleston
will be forced to hire some scrub to take his place.

(6) All of the roads on campus will be closed down and turned
into walkways. Cars will vanish from the school and the DCF
will raise money selling mo-peds.

If you believe these predictions, we have some land we'd like
to sell you in Florida. Write to : BB and DB Land Offer, P.O.
Box 00, Costa Rica, and enclose any part of a KA’s body.

Here’s the preseason softball top ten:

1) Pissin’ in the Wind
2) Gene Bingham

3) Skoal Brother

4) Master Baters

5) Nice Column

Hussey

Skiing, sailing available .

Take to the lake this spring

By CHARLIE LOVETT
Staff Correspondent

“I can’t go skiing today because of the snow!”’

This comment may seem a bit out of the
ordinary, but not at Davidson. Now that this
past weekend’s winter weather has given way to
more seasonable warmth, Davidson is bracing
itself for its annual explosion of springtime
recreation.

Of the many activities available spring term,
skiing is certainly one of the most popular—
water-skiing, that is. —

Take a moment to recall those days of early
March when the winter term blues had just been
replaced by the enthusiasm of spring, the flowers
were budding, and the ski boat was parked in
front of Chambers. . .Wait a minute! What is the
ski boat doing in front of Chambers?

It was all a gimmick to get you—the Davidson

student who just learned how to swim last ,

spring —to try your luck behind the school’s new
Ski Nautique.

But what if you're too macho to risk falling on |

your face at 30 miles an hour, and you still want
to ski? Before you show off behind the Davidson
boat, you may want to take a few lessons at the
North Carolina Water Ski School. The school,
located on the road to the Lake Campus, is run by
Russ Debuc, who started it with a friend in the
summer of 1978. Debuc bought out his partner in
1979 and now owns and runs the school himself.

The school offers lessons at any level of skiing
proficiency. Students work at their own pace,
taking as few or as many lessons as they like.
During peak season Debuc employs two full-time
and two part-time instructors and has an
enrollment of almost five hundred students.
Debuc said that he often has as many as 30
students from the College. Students interested in
taking lessons at the school should call Debuc
(892-5612) for arrangements.

Of course, you don’t have to take lessons in
order to ski. Davidson’s Waterski Club is open to
all, with no experience required, and it’s a great
way to learn to ski and have some fun, though
you’re certain to have a spill or two before it’s
over with.

Sailboats patiently await wind-worshippers.

(Davidsonian Archives)
Another popular water sport at Davidson is
sailing. Not only does the College sport a fine
sailing team which competes against such schools
as Duke and N.C. State, but recreational sailing
is also available on a limited basis through the
Physical Education department. The department
will begin its regular schedule of sailing classes
next week.

For those more experienced sailors who have
passed the sailing proficiency test, boats will be
available for check out after the opening of the
Lake Campus around April 1. Although most of
the non-competitive boats will be used for sailing
classes during the week, the school’s six
Scorpions will be available for student use on
most weekends.

So, don your swim suits, pack up your
Coppertone and, even if you don’t ski or sail,
come watch your friends perched precariously
behind that new boat, support the College sailing
team, or just simply bask in the springtime rays.
See you at the Lake!

(Continued from page 1)
ing and strong team unity” are
essential to success.

Hussey emphasized his com-
mittment to Davidson basket-
ball. He said he wants the
players to know he will be here.a
while. Hussey added that when
people refer to Kresse, he wants
the players to ask, ‘‘John
Kresse who?”

The tense player-coach rela-
tions that contributed to Bied-
enbach’s dismissal do not con-
cern Hussey. He said, ‘‘A lot of
people say there are problems
here, but you'll find I’m not the
kind of person who'll worry
about that.’”’ He added, ‘‘I think

you can take on an adverse
situation and use it positively.”
Davidson players seem im-
pressed by Hussey. Freshman
guard John Gullickson said,
‘‘Coach Hussey has a good
player-coach relationship.’
‘‘He plans to do his own
recruiting during the season
and make all the decisions
himself and I think that’s
_ good,” Gullickson added.
Hussey graduated from Ap-
palachian State University in
1962. From 1962-1970, he
coached at King’s Mountain
High School (N.C.) where he
compiled a 67-7 record. He went
to Belmont Abbey in 1971.

Camp Thunderbird

W2 a=
ch OS OPO aad

Employment at its Best | |

rma veneer? counseling opportunities for men and women:
who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guidi

them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only
those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to
help each individual child develop his or her potential should
apply. One must have ‘ability to teach in one or more of our
specialized activities. College students, -teachers, and coaches '

should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south |_

of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming

and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land

——Kresse ——

(Continued from page 1)
doubting my decision.”’

In a Davidsonian interview
last Tuesday, however, Kresse
hasd said his move from College
of Charleston to Davidson
would be ‘‘a very easy transi-
tion.” ~ = ae

Kresse said that he did not
resign as a result of conflict
with the Athletic department.

Most Davidson players found
out that Kresse had resigned on
Thursday evening when WSOC-
TV of Charlotte reported that
Bobby Hussey is Davidsons
new head basketball coach. “I
can't believe it. I don’t know

what’s going on,’’ sophomore

basketball player Richard Wil-
son said. Senior player Todd
Haynes commented, ‘‘We’re go-
ing to be O.K., but we’re hurt
by the circumstances. First
Biedenbach’s fired, and then
Kresse quits after only one
week.”

Haynes said of Kresse, ‘‘I
liked him a lot. I was pretty
upset that he left.’’ Freshman
player John Gullickson agreed,
saying, ‘‘Kresse was a first
class guy, but I guess he was
afraid of the Davidson atmo-
sphere somehow.”

' Kresse said that he had
“probably caused the Athletic
Department some embarrass-
ment.”’.-He-added,.‘‘I’m very
sorry to have created any kind
of problem.”

College Bowl

(Continued from page 1)

Louis— were being replaced at the top by younger teams. Many
people spoke to me of the conviction that their best playing days
were over. To one who reached his own peak several years ago,
this all had a terrible air of familiarity about it.

Should this sound to a layman’s ears like a deliberate
mystification of what appears to be a straightforward radio
quiz-game, I should point out that at this level of play, College
Bowl becomes a matter of careful preparation and mental
attitude rather than of simple assimilation of trivia. The
psychology of a top-class team has quite rightly been described
as more delicate than that of a string quartet.

Although one member of the Maryland team possessed more
of the characteristics of a double-bass than of a cello, this years
national champions had a leader who was one of the finest
team-captains—to say nothing of being a knowledgeable
player— whom I have seen in over four years of experience with
university-level College Bowl.

The story of the final itself was, sadly, that of two excellent
teams pitted against each other, one of which was thoroughly
psyched and had four members all at the very top of their form,
and another—ours—which simply could not find the right way
to allow their considerable talents and experience to jell on the
important day.

Coach Hansford Epes had thoroughly prepared the team
with the same program of intensive training which produced the
champions of 1979. The raw material was all there, but the

chemistry just did not work in that final match. I pointed out to
Coach Epes that a record of first and second place in the course

of two national championships was a unique achievement. He.
replied with a strongly worded sentiment to the effect that
second place is as good as nowhere, and that next year he would

be ‘‘taking no prisoners.’’ By that time, the current B-team will

be-.representing the College at all events: this quintet has
considerable natural talent which is already being molded into a
strong, match-winning team which, when rolling, should have
no difficulty going for the jugular.

The highest laurels may have eluded the Davidson College
Bowl team this year, but the College is still one of the

- established teams in national competition, and I am certain the

team will not be eclipsed for long by arrivitistes from Terrapin
Country.
