March 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

Carl Pfefferkorn is home after 151 days in the hospital

He's going strong after 75 foot fall

By CATHEY BOST
Staff Writer

Six months after being critically injured in a
mountain climbing accident, sophomore Karl
Pfefferkorn is home from the hospital, confident
that he is on his way to an almost complete
recovery.

The 75-foot fall and the long hospitalization
that followed gave him a more positive outlook on
life. He said, ‘‘Not that I’m advocating that
everyone go jump off a cliff, but I would seriously
call this a good experience. Mentally and
intellectually, I feel like I’ve matured ten years. I
feel like I grew up.”’

Pfefferkorn, an experienced climber, and
sophomore Pete Jones left Davidson college early
_ the morning of last September 13 to climb
Moore’s Wall, a cliff near Hanging Rock State
Park in northwest North Carolina. Pfefferkorn
recalled, ‘‘I was leading at about. 75 feet up. I
remember this mean little crack and I was easing
my way back down it...”” The next thing he knew,
he was lying at the bottom of the cliff. He remem-
bers being convinced that he had just awoken
from a nap. To this day he cannot recall the actual
fall. Doctors say he may wake up in the middle of
the night some time and relive every detail. Then
again, he may never know what happened: ‘I
guess you could say I’m missing four or five
seconds of my life,’’ he joked. But he has a keen
recollection of being terrified he was paralyzed.

In shock, Pfefferkorn felt no pain for nearly an
hour. Within forty-five minutes, a rescue squad
had arrived, but it took another hour before he
could be transferred to an ambulance. By the time
he had arrived at the emergency room of Baptist
Hospital in his hometown of Winston-Salem,
“the pain was intense,’’ particularly in his back.

The next two days are,glso a blur. Dazed by
Demerol, Pfefferkorn’s only memory is of
‘‘overwhelming pain.’’ His injuries included
damage. to the spinal cord with two broken
vertebrae, two broken feet, a broken pelvis, and a
broken “‘tailbone.’”’ Doctors say that Pfefferkorn
received no internal injuries, because he was in
excellent physical condition at the time of the
accident. Pfefferkorn spent much time last
summer running and lifting weights and he was,
he said, in the best shape of his life. ‘‘So
essentially I'd been in training for a Jnajor
physical accident. That (exercise) saved me.’

Pfefferkorn underwent two rounds of surgery in
the first three weeks after his fall. Surgeons
placed two steel rods in his back in an operation
lasting seven and a half hours. Later surgery
repaired tendons and ligaments in his legs and
feet. These first three weeks were the toughest to
deal with in terms of pain, and he lost nearly

was leading at about 75 feet up.

/ remember this mean little crack

and | was easing my way back
down it....° The next thing he

knew, he was lying at the
bottom of the cliff.

thirty pounds. After that, Pfefferkorn said, he
sensed he was ‘‘going to be okay.”

It took Pfefferkorn a total of 151 days (five
months) to recover to the point where he could go
home. Friends remark on how his attitude has
remained remarkably free of self-pity during the
ordeal. He said, ‘‘You just can’t look back and
think I used to be able to do this. You have to
think, Someday I will be able to do this again.”

He added that playing the ‘‘if-only” game is -

dangerous: ‘‘you end up in a cycle of depression.”

Maintaining an optimistic attitude proved
most difficult for Pfefferkorn when he realized
that ‘‘only over long periods of time do you see
improvement.” If he had expected to be walking
as soon as he could get out of bed, he was in for
disappointment. He had to learn that ‘‘No one is
going to make you well. You have to claw your
way back to health. When you realize it’s going to

be nothing but work, it floors you. You don’ t |

know how to handle that for a day or two.’

Even now, Pfefferkorn can stay on his feet no .

more than twenty minutes at a time, and only
with the supervision of a physical therapist.
Visiting Whitaker Care Rehabilitation Center

on an outpatient basis twice weekly, he has
regained total muscular control in his left ‘leg. He
has little feeling below mid-calf in his right leg.
But Pfefferkorn has adjusted well to the fact that
his recuperation is a long process. ‘‘Once I
understood what it would take, I began to like the
idea that I would work to make myself well.”

Pfefferkorn still wears a back brace (to be
removed in early June) and spends some of his
time in a wheelchair. As a result, he is more
sensitive to other victims of accidents or
debilitating illness. He told how, in public, he is

‘When you come that close to
losing the whole ball game,
you realize that being
here is enough.’

met with curious stares or is ignored. ‘‘People
look at you as if you’re different and as if they'll
never be in a wheelchair. I feel like telling them,
I’m just like you but I got hurt and, yes, it could
happen to you too. The only one who accept you
are children. Children are great.”’

Now Karl Pfefferkorn is looking forward to
writing term papers and returning to classes at
Davidson. He hopes to go back to school in the
fall. He claims to have developed a new
perspective on college life since the accident. The
complaints and gripes he experienced as a
freshman now seem “‘frivolous and ridiculous,”’ he
said. He predicted that when he returns to
Davidson and is able to pick up where he left off,
“I'll know I’ve done it.”’

But for the time being, how can he resist the
temptation to ask, ‘‘Why me?’’ Pfefferkorn has a
tremeridous sense of how fortunate he is to be

alive. ‘I feel luckier than at any time when I was
perfectly normal physically. When you come that
close to losing the whole ball. game, you realize
that being here is enough.

[EGG HEAD
ve get Chee ox amma plus |

BROCE | -thhoo.

Me
Doar Mune Ove,

bury | |

(Continued from page 1)

in front of the players.” Players
also. said that hostility between
Biedenbach and junior Rich
DiBenedetto hurt the team.

“T want to make very clear,”
Bingham told the Observer,
“that players aren’t going to
rule the security of our coaching
staffs.’”’ Bingham cited earlier

“administrative problems” as ~

main reasons for the dismissals.

Biedenbach

But he would not specify what
these problems were.

The remaining staffof the
team consists of Assistant
Coaches Carl Clayton and Mike
Sullivan.

Biedenbach, 35, was an assis-
tant coach at N.C. State before
coming to Davidson. Kessler,
46, was head coach at Adelphi
College in New York.

WELCOME TO
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

People are often nervous when
they come to Planned Parenthood.
They shouldn't be. We're just regular
people, and we try to make
everyone feel comfortable. We want
you to come back and bring your
frends.”

Connie Brown,
Receptions

Low Cost and Confidential
Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services

Information on birth control, V.D., pre-
natal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION
OR APPOINTMENT
- CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

. Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

COME 19

PLANNED PARENTHOOD
BEE ORE

0 Tom, pap
mactical. hip clan
place aun WD Kee pd sme

Camp Thunderbird

Employment at its Best
Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women
who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding
them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. Only
those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to
help each individual child develop his or her potential should
apply. One must have ability to teach in one or more of our
specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches
should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south
of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming
and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land

_ Oe

a 08 fp an Hmm bode

mon kate

—~\ fo™N :
\ 7% \ y “x
VO . } aa
fous / COAT /
cul dite }
0SPEsttkat (lt the 4 |
a PWIA, AD ti
ro ose
(AN) | (emp os OE
\ cN Vv . ar,
a / (ie!

