‘Stacking’ the Deck

ey plays his cards 1 makes or breaks the season.

‘How eer

It is widely said among sports writers that poten-

tial is the most’ overused word in their profession.
This time, however, there’s no other way to say it —

this year’s basketball team-has awesome potential. :
Potential tobe awesomely good, and potential to be

awesomely bad...

"First we'll deal with the awesomely bad part, be-
cause that should only. take a couple of paragraphs. .

- What most people notice about. the program is

that the three leading. scorers of last year’s 13-14
Wildcats are gone: ‘Todd Haynes (19.8 ppg) was lost .

to graduation: Rich - DiBenedetto averaged Ma
points per game last year, but as a’ ?
ofthe top offensive players in the nation with an aver-
age of 20.0 ppg and a'shooting percentage of 63%.

John Gullickson (11.6 ppg) was one of the nation’s
leading free throw shooters as @ freshman and was’

key to the team’s sucess.

Looking at those losses, people are saying there’ §

no way Davidson can win without its top three. scor-

ers. The point is well taken, “but in losing its top three Sil

scorers, Davidson saupesecanabanseiocacna gue
lems.

With those three out of the way, Bobby Hussey is
ee

The jokers are wild

ne Coach Hissey isn’t sure of his starting five, and realistically anyone coidd be on the
court for the opening tip-off, but here’s our ‘Picks: John Caroll, Jamie Hall, Brian Re- .

Coach tases has in mind for Davvidson basketball ;

—- a renaissance. It’s the caterpillar entering the co-
coon and emerging the butterfly.

- Hussey began to put the scape. in wccgething of a:
cocoon last spring. He met withthe team members in-.
dividually and as a whole, trying to develop a better
self-image and respect for teammates. The policy of.
building confidence in the program is soundly based

in good psychology. ©
_. As the team began practicing for this season tev

On one occasion I. was watching the team run
through drills of the offense, and I was privileged to”
have Coach Hussey attempt to explain it to me. “Bas-
ketball is a Simple game. You get the man open, you
/hit the open man, and he takes the shot. It’s really a
‘simple game.” Look for that when you, watch a ‘Da-
vidson game. Look for players popping open.at ‘the.
top of the key, or breaking towards. the basket.
They’ re Ainge beseitely be aaa 8 ine, shots an Scor-

came into contact with another of Coach Hussey’s a

tenets: “The whole. is the sum of its: parts.” Other
teams “will have two great players, but we’ ‘IL. have «
- ten players who play. better together,” Hussey prom- |”
- ises. He desires a “singleness of purpose,” and hede-.
mands “ateam effort, and 100% effort is all youcan: -
ask for. 1 want you to be able to say you did your ~
best:” But he quickly a adds, “You cando yout best and 3

still lose.”

~ Lest he stray too far, Conch Hussey setums 10 the ff
S of purpose. “Systems and plays don’t
_ mean anything without singleness of purpose. They
[the team] have got to be willing to ca harem

and to believe each other.” D

id: ple age ats 01 Ge For 3 Via of pk re-
»picks, screens, and the like. Invariably someone
‘winds up emerging from the trafic jam alone, =“
ay esc caoipasaascatiea :

" ii Se | pe

Ce ee a es cag een oP
bling at inopportune times. On defense they’re not al-
ways talking or not sliding to-help out. When he
_ speaks of these things, be sap Laat reat ey Se

