Editor

The Davidsonian

Box 218

Davidson, NC 28036

Slum problem

To the Editor:
Since someone from the Davidsonian has been

sent to photograph the front porch of our tenement, |

we are writing in anticipation of an article defending
the Housing Office in response to the article in last
week’s Davidsonian regarding perimeter houses.

Granted, the furniture on our front porch is junk.
It cannot be seen from the street, however. Further-
mofe, if the Housing Office would like to make us a
present of something better to sit on, we would hardly
complain.

_We have been told in a recent Housing Office
bulletin that our house looks like a slum. It’s interest-
ing that no one was concerned about how the house
looked when we arrived. There is no feeling more
sickening than the realization, on the first day back at
school, that a year’s worth of filth must be scrubbed
out of a house before students can even begin to move
belongings inside. In.a regular landlord-tenant leas-
ing arrangement, the tenant would have every right to
withhold payment of rent under such circumstances.
Yet because we are only students, we must still pay
for our lodgings, regardless of whether or not the col-
lege has provided us with a clean, healthy place to
live. Perhaps we are mistaken in assuming that the
school views such a provision as one of its obliga-
tions. In any case, we think that anyone who has seen
our house both before and after the Major Cleanup
will have to agree that we have done nothing but im-
prove its appearance — we couldn’t possibly have
made it look worse.

We initially approached the Housing Office in a
codperative and congenial spirit. Having met repeat-
edly, however, with only excuses and a thoroughly
defensive attitude, we are growing less and less in-
clined to be pleasant about it all.

Martin Manor-Upstairs
Liza White ’82

Gia Partain ’82

Mary Windham ’82
Linda Cruciani ’82
Suzie Moore ’ 82
Suzanne Kord

Required laundry

To the Editor:

Last year, the great D.C. Laundry caused dam-
age, I estimate, worth $100 to my clothes — in the
way of shrinkages, tears, and button losses. On filing
complaint to the lady in charge, I was told that it
could not be helped and that if I did not like the ser-
vice they performed, I could wash my clothes myself
at the machines in basement Watts. “They are free,”
she kindly informed me. Did she, I wonder, forget
that I am, willingly or otherwise, paying $200 a year
for their fantastic services, and that I would have to
provide my own detergent?

Anyway, being a freshman; I stuck with that and -

washed my clothes at the “free” machines. This year,
again, the Comptroller'tells me it is absolutely com-
pulsory to pay the laundry fee, giving me no explana-
tion why. Already, two shirts have come back with
missing buttons and I can feel my clothes getting

smaller. A friend. has also had a good pair of jeans
come back too small to wear.

I wish to record my strongest objection and pro-
test to the College policy of forcing students to use
this laundry. Though I have not carried out an actual
count, the number of different students I see at the

Watts machines every time go there and talk with as-

sures me that I am no alone in making this objection.
A significant proportion of the student body is dissat-
isfied with the laundry service and wish to discon-
tinue using and paying for it.

Not only is it ineffecient and inconvenient to lots
of students, but also terribly overcharged and expen-

~ sive. Cost is a major factor in my objection. At $200 a

year, I am being forced to pay double what I would
pay at coin-operated machines. Consider this: even if
I had two loads of laundry a week, and even if it cost
me $1 per load to wash them at coin-operated ma-
chines, it would cost me $66 for the 33 weeks a year
we attend school. Add to that $20 for the cost of an
iron; $15 for the cost of sheets and pillow cases (all
long-term investments); and $15 per year for deter-
gent. That would amount to roughly $100 a year.
There would be no damages, and I would get my
clothes back on the same day. I do not think I need my
clothes wrapped in brown paper, nor my shirts on
hangers (so I could throw hundreds away every
term).

I realize a lot of Davidson students would rather
not go to the trouble of washing their own clothes,
and that a lot, too, do not mind the grossly over-
charged fee. But there is a significant number of us
who do not want to use this service, especially when
cheaper and better alternatives are available.

I understand one reason offered to certain dissat-
isfied students is that the laundry could not operate if
the were made optional since then, the $200 fee
would not suffice. And since there are studetns who

do request the service, the whole student body must —

pay for it. Aha! Reaganomics — rob the poor, give to
the rich — strikes again. Those students who do want
the luxury of an overcharged, inefficient service
should also be ready to pay extra for it. Why should

those who do not want to, or cannot afford it, subsid- '

ize those who do?

I fail to see why and what rationale the College
employs to coerce $200 from each of us for an ineffi-
cient, unnecessary laundry service. We have already
seen, this year, a dramatic increase in costs at David-
son over last year. Most those of us, then, in the up-
per-income bracket that Reagan favors be forced to
wast our hard-earned dollars on exorbitant laundry
charges? It seems to me to be morally wrong and un-
fair of the College to exploit its authority over us in
this way. _

Why. must we be forced to use this laundry?
Why? I request that the College let us have a choice in
how our clothes should be washed and how our mo-
ney should be spent.

Mahmoud Sayani ’84

Support Solidarity

To the Editor:

_ The Polish Solidarity Union’s 900 delegates, at
the second half of their first national convention in
Gdansk, issued a call for free elections and demo-
cracy.

Because they stood up for free elections and de-
mocracy, Poland’s delegates were subjected to ruth-
less threats by the Soviet Union and Poland’s Com-
munist government.

Despite Poland’s efforts, the Soviets are deter-
_mined to stop progress by those striving for freedom.

Historically, the Soviets have not hesitated to use
military force to stop the spread of freedom — wit-
ness their invasions of Hungary in 1956, Czechoslo-
vakia:‘in 1968 and Afghanistan in 1981.

A coalition of college students disagree with the

_ DAVIDSONIAN/ FMday'8’Gctober 1981

Soviet’s manhandling of Poland and are making
statements supporting Poland’s right to freedom.
Maintaining that people everywhere have a birthright
to freedom, the students are circulating a petition ex-
pressing “complete support for the people of Poland
in their struggle to retain their inalienable rights.”
This nationwide campaign is critical because it sends
a powerful message to the world: America’s youth
are firmly behind the Polish people in their fight
against Communist oppression.

Human rights are not a discretionary privilege
granted by the government. They are a necessary de-
mand of all free people. With our support, Poland
will be free.

Jack Abramoff
Chairman,
College Republican National Committee

Former coed

To the editor:

As a former coed from the class of ’78, I feel
compelled to take issue with Mike Daisley’s remem-
brances of Davidson coeds “back then” (Davidson-
ian, 9/18/81). Daisley describes the coeds as “not so- .
cially oriented” and the women who “yelled obscene
things back” at Davidson men.

I should like to remind Mr. Daisley that being a
freshman coed in 1974 was far from fulfilling. If we
appeared not to be “socially oriented,” consider that
we had no outlets for our orientations: no field hock-
ey, no dance classes, no women’s chorus, and ony
one woman professor to serve as a role model. As the
new coeds we were gawked at, ignored, and glorified
— anything but easily integrated as normal Davidson
students.

Seven women on my freshman hall transferred.
The rest of us stayed on to watch Davidson mature

’ with our presence. By the time we were seniors, we

were indeed able to enjoy many aspects of our hereto-
fore-repressed well-roundedness. Daisley notes that
women students have become more normal: perhaps
it is actually their Davidson environment which has.

Cindy (Doran) Poole °78

Y Fund Drive

To the Editor:

The Y Student Service Corps had an extremely
successful Fund Drive last Fall. Unfortunately, many
of those who gave money took the attitude that they
had paid someone else to do their service for the year.
The Y does need money, but what’s important is
time, energy, and enthusiasm. Your time, and your
talents can be given by no one else. As treasurer of the
Y, I would rather you spend the rest of my term with
less money if it meant we as acommunity of students,
professors and townspeople would be more willing to
work together, each contributing what he or she
could. That’s why this year we are calling our Fall

fund drive an Involvement Drive. After all, service is

not a matter of finances; it’s a matter of caring.
Please read the brouchures we will be distributing this
week and find out what you can do to get involved.
Even one hour of your time will help!

Cathi Dumas ’83

Subscription ad

To the Editor:

About that editorial and advertisements depict-
ing the straight readers of the. Davidsonian in recent
issues. Was it designed to expand or limit circula-
tion?

Homosexuals. read the Davidsonian, too.
What’s in it for us?

Concerned reader
