THE DAVIDSONIAN

In Veritate Magna Vis

Volume LXX, Number a /S

<

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina

February 6, 1981

Professors’ committees recommend compensation increase

By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff writer

Davidson College must increase its
faculty compensation.

That is the bottom line of a report
released recently by a joint sub-commit-
tee of the American Association of
University Professors (AAUP) and the
faculty's Professional Affairs Committee
(PAC). Physics Professor Bob Manning
of the AAUP and Philosophy Professor
Lance Stell of the PAC prepared the
report.

The report praised the President and
Trustees for last year’s salary increases,
which raised the percentage of total
College expenditures used for faculty
compensation for the first time since
1966. However, it stressed that last

year's increases did not solve the
problem. For next year, the report listed
five recommendations. They are:

1) That the President and the Trustees
report to the faculty whether the College
is committed to stopping and reversing
the continual decline in the faculty's real
income during the past 14 years;

2) That in the future there be an
across-the-board salary increase annual-
ly offseting the rise in the Consumer
Price Index, with all merit increases
added to this base;

3) That the $6,500,000 targeted for
faculty endowment under the 1987
Program be increased to offset inflation;

4) The assistant professor’s salaries,
which are the lowest among North
Carolina institutions, be given top

priority in granting increases;

5) That the College aim to quadruple
its endowment over the next ten years.

The PAC will present the report to the
faculty next Tuesday. If the faculty
endorses it, President Samuel Spencer
will present it to the Board of Trustees
later this month. The Advisory Council
on Finance and Development has al-
ready endorsed the recommendations
and will include them in its report to the
Trustees, Council Chairman Earl Mac-
Cormac said.

Faculty compensation has declined
substantially in real value in the last
decade, according to the report. There
was an 18.9 percent drop in real salary
for all professorial ranks. The mean
salary for all ranks fell from $11,435 to

$9,016 in constant dollars.

“T don’t think anyone is starving,”
PAC Chairman Hansford Epes said,
“but I wonder if the level is such as to
allow all of us to live reasonably well.”’

The decline is particularly striking on
the assistant professor level. Assistant
professors make only 70 percent in
constant dollars of what they made in
1966.

Davidson’s compensation level is still
in the top 5 percent of the nation’s
four-year undergraduate schools, the
report points out, but such schools on
the average pay less than any other type
of institution, including community
colleges.

Moreover. Davidson competes for

(See page 11)

the 900 Room.

Kenneth Wooden, children’s rights activist, speaks tonight in

College likely to keep ARA;
Currie expects bids in future

By MARK BARRETT
Special to The Davidsonian
ARA Food Service submitted

its proposal Wednesday for
catering the snack bar, 900
Room, and new dining Com-
mons next year.

Several students have called
for the College to put the
contract up for bids. Yet the
College still has not indicated
whether ARA will have any
competitors for Davidson’s food
service contract.

Business Manager Bob Cur-
rie said Wednesday the admini-
stration plans to decide what
kind of food service program it
wants before determining who
will provide the program.

After making the decision,
Currie said, the administration
will choose between having an
in-house or a contracted food
service. He said the ARA
proposal is the ‘‘starting point”
and that others will probably
not be considered unless the
administration deems ARA’s
proposal inadequate. ARA has
held Davidson’s contract since
1957.

Currie said, ‘‘It' might be
most prudent to get into the
new facility with ARA with the
goal of getting bids after the
first year.”

The College will probably
seek bids periodically once the
Commons opens, Currie said.

Several members of the Food
Committee, panel of SGA Sena-
tors and freshman hall repre-
sentatives set up to air. food
service complaints, urged Cur-
rie at their Tuesday meeting to
seek proposals from other food
service companies immediately.

Freshman SGA _ Senator
Lentz Ivey maintained ‘‘it’s a
natural process of good busi-
ness to go out and ask people
for other [bids].”’

ARA School and College
Service Division Vice President
Jack Schwabeland and ARA
District Manager John Packer
said their proposed freshman
eating plan contains the fol-
lowing changes: ,

' —a new 14 meal ‘“‘mini”’ plan
(changed from 12 meals) costing

$990 per year,.up from $883.

—a rise from $1015 to $1090
per year in the cost of the 1
meal ‘‘maxi’’ plan.

—unlimited seconds on all
items except special ‘‘premium
entrees.’’

—at least one free steack or
other premium entree per week,
available at any meal.

—a breakfast cereal and fruit

(See page 11)

Zimmermann says ‘We'll do all we can’

Recommendations well received

By ELIZABETH KISS
Editor

‘We are committed to doing all we can to raise
faculty salaries,’’ Vice President for Academic
Affairs Price Zimmermann said in discussing the
AAUP-PAC faculty compensation recommenda-
tions.

The central issue for Zimmermann and other
administrators was the extent of the ‘‘all we can.”’

Davidson's financial problems are found na-
tionwide, in all educational and charitable
institutions, Zimmermann pointed out. Davidson
is even more fortunate than some, since North
Carolina’s cost of living level is among the lowest
in the 50 states, he added.

The marked decline in assistant professors’
salaries was ‘‘not by design,’’ Zimmermann
stressed. Indeed, the administration has had ‘‘a
policy of skewing increased
more to assistant professors.’’
This year “it’s pretty certain
that the assistant bracket will
get extra attention,” he said.

said. Last year the Trustees rejected College
President Samuel Spencer’s proposal for a 5
percent across-the-board salary increase, while
granting merit increases averaging 13.1 percent.

‘We will always be behind the major universi-
ties in salary scale,’’ Zimmermann said, although
he pointed out that many universities require
professors to take greater teaching loads.
UNC-Charlotte professors, for example, teach 12
hours a week on the average, while Davidson
professors teach nine.

There is no simple solution to the problem of
acquiring additional funds for salary increases.
But the College has only two flexible areas of
income: tuition and gifts.

Tuition obviously cannot be increased indefi-
nitely, Zimmermann said. ‘‘We are in a market-

(See page 11)

Salaries: Davidson faculty pay in constant 1966 dollars

The compensation report re-

Professor ==
commendation for an annual

$15,000

. . H Assoc.

across the board salary INCFeASE |, cfessor C=
offsetting the rise in the Con- Asst. ——
sumer Price Index has ‘‘no Professor ™====

chance”’ of passing at the Board
of Trustees meeting this month,
Zimmermann said.

Instructor @=—s

“There is a strong sentiment —_
among some of the Trustees for ;
making all increments merit

increments and for not haveing

across-the-board increases,’’ he 1966 -'67

‘16-77

'77-'78 ‘78-79 ‘79-80 ‘80-'81

Profs vote to shelve EPC proposals

By OHN SIMAN

Editor

In a special meeting ,jheld Tuesday the faculty
voted to indefinitely suspend consideration of the
Education Policy Committee’s (EPC’s) proposals
to revise the curriculum.

The vote, described as ‘‘unexpected’’ by
Academic Vice President and EPC Chairman
Price Zimmermann, concludes a year and a half
long EPC project. The EPC began work on its
proposals in September 1979.

Indefinite suspension essentially curtails the
tabling of a proposal. However, while a motion to
table is not debatable, a motion to suspend is.

Still, there was only minimal discussion of the
motion before the faculty passed it by a sizable
majority under ‘‘very amicable’’ conditions,
according to German Professor Hansford Epes.

(Faculty meeting procedures prohibit mention
of the numerical margin of the motion’s passing

place situation. The market sets the price people
will pay for an education.”

Gifts are also more and more difficult to obtain
in an inflationary era, and capital gains often do ©
not keep pace with inflation. Davidson’s past
fiscal conservatism has hurt its present financial
situation, Zimmermann said. The College did not
work to build an endowment until the last few
-decades, relying instead on fundraising for
specific projects. ‘‘We did not get the money
when it was easier to get,’’ Zimmermann
explained. Northeastern schools who are doing
better financially ‘‘have bigger endowments and
richer alumni.”

However, the Trustees’ decision to change
investment firms last year indicates their concern
that Davidson improve the management of its
assets, Zimmermann pointed out.

The compensation report expressed that the

(See page 11)
