= enn ety |

Terry.

Student Solicitor, senior “Chip 4

Christian, said that he and fellow solici-
tor, senior Bill Purcell, had: not in-
‘fluenced Deah Terry’ $ decision, but that
he suspected Dean Terry imposed a
light sanction because “Pat had been

such a good influence on all the football _

players,” and “Pat was pretty instru-
mental in stopping hell- raising” when

Dean. Terry — conimented, “Pat
i ‘Sheridan’ 8 case: was handled adminis-

tratively and if he has chosen to ‘com-

ment publicly I will respond. The stu-
dent solicitors had no procedural part to

play; they merely expressed a personal
opinion. The sanction which I imposed I
thought appropriate to the violation, a

period of constructive labor as restitu-
tion for destructive behavior. It was cer-
tainly easier than being kicked out of

ecm " Sindent Solicitor Bill Purcell de -alcases.”

7 gf Ab ycommnampapert barley eet

a-. ~ "He said,“There area lot of things I wish - “tn the 15 September “Outbasket,”
we could explain, but we can’t.” fea i piltiaten Weer Oa tg of tatents “

office, Dean Terry ‘said, “Let me be

quite clear about how.I will deal with

‘vandalism in the future. Any student

found guilty of maliciously damaging

college property or. doing so under the’
_ influence: of alcohol or another drug ,

will be fined $50 plus damages the first
time it occurs. If the damage is exten-
sive and expensive, he/she may be sus-
pended from the college. He or she will
certainly be suspended the second time.

Rudeness and impropriety —

The Code.of Responsibility prohibits both

by Tim Whalen °82_-

Dean of Students Will Testy wiche =

“a letter to the ‘Honor. Council recom-

mending a two-term suspension in.a te-
cent open Code of Responsibility case

involving public drisnkenness ane aigor-
_derly bahavior. ....
The accused had already pleted

guilty.

This week, he said of: the aiesdent: :

“It was certainly within my right.
Whether it was wise or not, I don’t
know. In this particular case, I just felt

‘that this Violation was so serious that it —

“did not deservé'just:a slap ‘on the wrist.”

Last spring a ‘letter to the:editor of

the Davidsonian on 8 May charged that
Dean Terry had too much. infuence on
the Honor council, and quéstioned' his
handling of several past Honor Code
and Code of Responsibility cases. .
Commenting’ on the feelings ex-
pressed in the letter, and on the feeling
expressed by. Student ‘Solicitor Chip

Christian, among « others, that the honor...

. system is mysterious, Dean Terry said,

“I think perhaps if that is true, and I can | ;
undefstand why that’s true, I.can nk a

of two ways to handle the situation.
“The first, would be to remove the
\Dean’s office from the system entirely.

If the students want that, and the Truss. J «
tees consent, it would bea great rehiet to |.

- Council more visible.” >.”
He. su
Code of Disciplinary Ph

" public the type of case
i, and the members of the Honor

eee ae

ing.

Dean Terry noted that-he has at-
tended only three honor court hearings

- during his tenure ‘as dean of students.
Twice he testified, and once he attended
- ‘the hearing on the request of the parents

of the accused student. He said “If am

very careful, almost across the board, to ©
_ avoid comment. on their {the Honor

Council’s] decisions.”.

Former Honor Council Cliairman

Hope M°Arn ’81 and ‘present Honor

; Shoes ge acy of.

& es AS ie io eles “ay i iil
- ee eS ee Bowe

ron wag pete *Peo-
“ple want each individual case to be dealt

“The second way would bé to keep. si
the ‘same system and make the pee, om

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Student Conduct Council
Davidson ‘College
. Davidson, Norch Cac tigy

Responsibility.

regular ‘basis.

standards apply to them,

shat they are.

t re
eg sg

Raid: deeky ,

gested ammending ‘the a apee ar er
Or ir ja tioke: thes
, the verdict'and >

Counell involved for each h honor hear- 4 : e :

Box 218, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 704/892-2000, ext. 148

2 October 1981

To the members of the studéat Conduct. Council:

The past few terms ineh been bad ones for the Honor Code and the Code of

Not only has there been an inordinate number of violations, but there has also
been serious questioning of how fairly punishments have been applied.

“We feel one way to begin solving these two problems is to open the record
of Honor Cong ee Code: of RARPAeAn AL icy | cases,

. Of course the names. of accused students should be kept secret, but the
number of 'cases-heard each term, the types ‘and severity of the violations, ‘the
‘nuitibef of convictions, the harshness of the punishments, and the names.of the |
students ; and administrators _whg handled the cases “Ought to-be made public on a

MWe believe that making the community. aware of how the honor system functions
‘will lead to two improvements in the’ way the: system works,
“become less inclined to’ violate the Codes,
tried and punished for violations, they.will be more conscious that:the Same,
The Honor Code and Code of ReSponsibility will seem
less like rarefied, idealistic principles and more like the serious regulations

Second,. tthe. Dean of Studerits ‘and Honor Gounes1- will be less likely to hand
down’ punishments that are unfair:or inconsistent with other punishments. Once their
decisions are open,to public scrutiny, they wil) te forsee to just ify ty the
county, any decisions that sect: Jess then dupe.

Daviternts 8 tradition of Wei of is what wits aa tE! iivaue.
work to keep the honor system Steeng LE qe Valile the Davideou educetion.

_ THE DAVIDSON LAN

John ‘Siman, editor seh : ?
AG

First ; students will
Once they. read. that ‘their beers. are

We must actively

page 4/DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

person, he sie cats rag

with individually” and-not according to
“in the past if they

“agree with it and if they don’t agree

with it then they want to pull precedent

On you. Now, T think precedent is avery

important guideline. It is very agonizing
for me to try to decide what-is the fair

thing to do. The easiest road is just to es-
tablish certain things will happen in ev-
ery casé regardless of what it happens to
be.” He added, “I’m leaning towards
doing that in the future.”

Council Secretary, junior True. Davis,
each said that: they have never felt pres-

. Sured by Dean. Terry concerning a case.

The both added that, given Dean Ter-

_ . fy’s. experience, with the honor system,

his advice is s valuable,

An open letter
- to the sce
