by Bill Swift ‘85
According: to Housing Director
Bill Bolding, there are about 120 stu-
dents living off-campus this year...
This year a total of two women
moved off campus. because of a lack of

acceptable dorm’ space on campus.
“This, year we allowed more room

space, percentage-wise, for women
than ever before,” Bolding said. “How-
ever, the waiting-list for women was
tremendous.”

. Some students willfully move off-
‘campus because they feel that they have

more privacy. Mr. Bolding said that the
main reason these students leave’ cam-
pus housing is.that the College runs out

of room for them in ‘dorms and perime-_

ter housing.

This year five of the 19 petimeter
houses were turned into faculty homes.
Mr. Bolding said, “It is probable that
more of the perimeter houses will be
phased into faculty homes hext year.”
He added, “If the College cannot handle
these extra students, they will be forced
to live off-campus.

mpus housing fact

All students are required to live on-
campus if there are openings. Mr: Bold-
ing said, “ Although we have the. power
to call an. off-campus:student back on-
campus, we never-use it.” 2

In the event of an ope: fang on-

_ campus, the Housing Office. informs

off-campus students that they. may. re-
turn to College-owned housing. Mr.
Bolding said, “Most students given the
opportunity decide that they’d rather
live on-campus.” ;

Mr. Bolding said there are two
empty rooms on campus, one on fourth

Belk and the other in Basement Ri-
chardson. These rooms in Belkand sev-
eral other rooms that now have occu-
pants are being reserved for students in
the Beaufort marine science-program.

When asked where the present oc-
cupants would move when these Beau-
fort students returned winter term, Mr.
Bolding replied, “They will be moved
into.winter term vacancies.’

These vacancies are left by stu-
dents dropping out, moving off campus,
or going on trips.

Room-Swapping...entering the lottery

_ by Jeffrey Mann ‘84

Housing Director Bill Bolding
wants to tighten up the present housing
lottery. system. He asked the SGA’s
Residence Hall Council (RHC) to con-
sider ways to eliminate abuses and sug-
‘gest changes to improve-the system.

Mr. Bolding said, “Last year room
swapping got out of hand. . . . Com-
plaints from students were rampant.
One whole fraternity switched at lunch-
time.” He declined to name the fraterni-
ty. a .

Under the present system random
numbers are drawn from a jar by all stu-
dents in order of seniority. Any students
who were forced off campus draw first,
then rising seniors, etc. The student
with the’ lowest number. chooses his
room first. The more desirable rooms

naturally go first. Roommates use their

lower number to choose.

Presently, one way to get around
the system is by going through the selec-
tion process with someone with a good
number, and then switching rooms in
September. For instance, a sophomore
could find a senior who has a lower
number than his intended roommate,
and ‘borrow’ this senior number by go-
ing through room selection with him.
Both students would then switch rooms
in September to be with their intended
roommates. ,

Mr. Bolding said inWildcat Dens,
a 1981 housing - office publication

“There is no system of lottery which is
failsafe from the unfair manipulations
of those students who want to ‘beat the
system.’ Roommate pairs may switch
and swap in order to get the best lottery
numbers and then switch roommates in
the fall when they arrive on campus.
This may be effective for some students

“Off. Campus Housing

[Continued from page 1]

Senior Patty Bates,who lives next
door in Harding House, said she did not

have it so bad. The-residents of Harding:
had only general cleaning and a kitchen °

full of appliances that didn’t work. to
worry about. | .
At Martin Manor across the-street;’

however, some of the girls weren't even ch

sure if the house was “healthy to live ‘in.

Even after scrubbing the floor, several
~ ‘seool — especially since the dorms are
' all given thorough Cleanings dur ing the

times, it still turned the bottoms of their

feet black everytim ¢ they dared to go
without shoes inside. The girls also said

that the house’s refrigerator won’t shut;

the upstairs lights don’t go on (or off);
and the screens on the windows don’ t

fit.

oo ee .

But the girls see tho ing
nor. Even the porch boards that are’ so
warped that they hold water can Wait

their tum: ‘to be fixed. The serious con-

cem is the front door that won't close.

si Q

The possibility of night visitors makes
young women nervous, especially if the
front door.won’t close. They, said. that

‘In general, the people im alk three
houses have the same:complaints. They
feel that the houses should have at least
been fit to live in when they arrived at

summer. They often feel as though they
are last priority and would like to be

treated as' though they, are just'as sr ss E
tn tant di weed

residents,”

hee:

‘school sends out

¢ bathrooms, one.could hardly-

‘that th seeescrine: Street have”
avidson College.

*

e residnets. said that if weren t Ee

for the»maid that the
: oh 3e ev rt roll of toilet pa-

. per in
‘tell’
- any ‘connection with

but it does not ‘beat the system’ — it
merely cheats other students who be-
lieve in-and follow Davidson’s unique
and invaluable code of honor.”

Mr. Bolding said this week,““We
tried to give flexibility in good faith,”
but too many people were “cheating
others by swapping rooms.” Any

_ change would probably mean less flexi-

bility, he said.

SGA Vice President Chip Hurley
said the. RHC will be. meeting in. the
middle of October to discuss possible
changes. The RHC is made up of repre-
sentatives from each dorm and is
chaired by the SGA vice president. Chip
said the “main focus will be on room
swapping,” but the council will consid-
er any ideas on improving the system.
“Bill [Bolding] will do anything. . . if
we can devise a better way,” he said.

- one night after a fraternity. party: some. . ee
© pedple came in the house after all the re-
_ Sidnets had gone to bed.

page 6 peenenne 1 Fridisy 2 Octobe? 1981.

The council will also examine summer
storage problems, room retentions, and
interest in off campus housing.

The College of William and Mary,
uses a lottery system similar to David-
son’s, but they eliminate the room
swapping problem by not allowing
room changes until four weeks into the
term. “This pretty much takes care of
it,” said housing office secretary Kathy
Clark. Lottery numbers are assigned by
computer.

The University of th South-uses a
fairly personalized system according to
Dean of Women Mary Sue Cushman.
They use a combination of seniority and
academic standing to determine priority
in sélecting rooms. “We pretty much
talk to everyone to avoid swaps and
dodges. . . .It shows up when the stu-
dent arrives to switch rooms. We tell
him no,” she said.

at “\ “Martin Manor

photo by Eric Long ‘83
