_ Film reviews with Nick Graham

Polanski’s Knife in
the Wa ter; Stun tman

INE FILMS WIND UP THIS
F term’s schedule in Love
’ Auditorium on Wednesday
with a showing of Roman Polanski’s
first feature film Knife in the Water.
‘Made in Poland in 1962, before he
moved westwards, the film is replete
with. what eager fans will gleefully
‘recognise as. the Polish master’s
stock-in-trade: claustrophobic emo-
tions, barely controlled violence,
sex, and a relentless documentation
of the horror underlying the relation-
ships of the film’s characters.

Shot in.an entirely appropriate
monochrome the film starts inno-
cently enough when a well-off Pol-
ish couple of the tolerated bourgeoi-
sie — or party establishment, it is
never made clear —take off to spend

_their week-end sailing. En route to —

the lake they pick up a young hitch-

hiker and thereafter things turn slow-

ly but ineluctably nasty. Almost im-
mediately the passenger provokes
the husband into  fulminations
against the idle young and thereafter
manages to crystallise and exacer-

bate a whole series of conflicts and |

hatreds between the couple. In this
he is of course helped by the growing
sexual attraction which the wife feels
_for him, In an atmosphere charged
with tension and unvoiced jealousy
— sexual and otherwise — the ill-

matched trio take to the water and —

; p op Films tonight manages to
ay ‘capture the surprise hit of last

‘find that the small boat is:simply not
big enough ‘for them. Polanski ex-
ploits the boat as a prop to the full

and lays on the claustrophobia of the,
_ event in acommendable rasther than
merely excessive fashion producing |

powerful drama, and while the ac-
.tion moves at an’ increasingly fast

acters managed to avoid open and vi-
olent conflict for as long as they did.

het tie

pace one is left, upon reflection, to’ .
wonder simply how these three char-

nouement with an inceasingly. fright-
ening inevitability which;
twenty years on, impresses and en-
thralls. It is not difficult to imagine
why two decades ago this film thrust

- Polanski to international fame and
_ helped to establish a new approach to

psychological drama on film.

If all this sounds slightly too in-
timidating or weighty, take comfort
however: the film comes highly rec- |
ommended, and while you won’t’
find.the lyricism or visual beauty of

' Tess here, neither will you be as-

saulted by the kind of crudity which
Polanski occassionally overdoes so
thoroughly — Rosemary’s Baby is
probably the prime example of this

in the man’s work. On another level:

thge film is worth seeing as a salutary
example of what can be done by a
creative artist in a part of the globe
usually associated with draconian
forms of censorship and the - very
worst excesses of Socialist Realism.
It also makes for an interesting com-
parison with last term’s Kanal by
Andrez Wajda, the great director of
the generation immediately preced-
ing Polanski. Go along to see it in
Love at 8.00 pM on Wednesday —
the first film by someone as impor-
tant as Polanski deserves a large au-
dience.

fall — Stuntman — which,
even if you saw it during first-run or
at the Visulite a few moniths ago, is

undoubtedly worth a second or even

a third viewing. ‘Starring Peter

: O'Toole: as a manic and possibly ho-
“, micidal film director the movie ‘is
of D y the finest homage to the art

motion piuctures since

hings go badly wrong whena

even .

. Character of Eli, the

e from justice accidentally

BA Wooue "

an instant replacement, whatever
dangers this may contain being out-
weighed by the immediate alterna-
tive of arrest and imprisonment on a
charge which is kept sinisterly
vague. From the intial chase scene
the film is a delightful celebration of
the ability of the cinema to create and
maintain illusions, as well as.a fasci-
nating exposé of the tricks of the
trade’ as we follow the apprentice

_ stunt-man through his crash-course

of training. Nothing is quite what it
seems in this feature, from the char-
acters and motives of most of the
principals to their interchangeable
sex-lives. The stream of sight-gags
in the action sequences is however
tempered and complemented by the
director.
O’Toole gives a wonderfully insane

_ performance as the man ruthlessly

obsessed by his need to finish his

“film, a pet personal project which af-

ter years of disappointment is finally

‘in production and threatened by
_ more than the usual problems asso-
. Ciated with that precariqus process.

The film-within-the-film is a stu-
pendously tasteless: protest against

the horrors of war which somehow
failed to get made during the "Six-
" ties, and Eli’s energy, mania and
ruthlessly ‘funny one-liners hold to-
“gether and pull through both it and

the film we see in the cinema. As

with much of the finest comedy, the
_ humour is relentlessly black, becom- .
ing” aor sinister as it be-

comes apparent to us that O‘Toole
may be trying for the ultimately real-
istic stunt — the filmed death of his
stunt-man. The eriding is- gripping,
as the illusion and reality of the two
films coincide, as well as being up-
lifting, and one leaves with the feel-
ing that while Hollywood may quite
possibly be ‘the modern Babylon,
there is much comedy,and humanity
to be found in such a place. O’Toole
steals'the show effortlessly. See it.
And this, gripping or riot, to say
nothing of uplifting, is where the il-
lusion and reality of the Davidsonian
coincide and I come to the end of
both this column ‘and my stint as _
Film-reviewer for this worthy organ.
About time too, one is tempted to say
in relief, Nick’s Flicks, for the se-
cond and positively final time is g0-

“ing to the great screening-room in
the sky as this term’s Fine Films

schedule does not run beyond Knife

,. in the Water. Here’ s looking 2 at you.”

kids, °

