saws

i
|

Better late than never. Wildcat base-
ball bats are finally waking from a pro-

longed and unwanted hibernation and -

for Coach George Greer & Company
it’s not a game too soon.

On Wednesday Davidson sluggers
let it all hang out as they took Warren
Wilson, 13-11, in a hard-fought slugf-
est. Shortstop Allen Griffin led the bar-
rage as he went 4-for-6 with four RBIs.
Those base knocks raised his average to

.421, but he nonetheless pointed to a
lumber slumber as part of the team’ s11-
19 record. “We've played some good,
hitting teams lately. We just started hit-
ting the ball’ real well ‘the’ ‘past ‘two
games.”

Against Warren Wilson the Cats

held a 6-2 lead going into the fifth. Bri-

an Whitmire was starting his first game,

and by the fifth inning he had thrown 93
pitches. As Greer put it,“He just got
tired and the ball got up. They got a cou-
ple of timely hits and a couple of
walks.” The visitors seized the oportun-
ity and put eight runs on the board.
Davidson bounced back surprising
ly well, though, as Scott Redding
reached base on a misplay in left field.
Mark Adams set the spark to flame with
a single, and Redding scored on a Marc
Webster base knock. Beaver singled in

two runs.to cut the lead to 10-9. Then

sophomore enterfielder Jeff McSwain
clobbered the ball for a two run homer

and wWpeat lea. Tivos peteed the

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 April 1982

lead in. the. seventh as Doug Wiley
drilled a shot over the right field fence to.
‘lead the inning off, and Griffin scored

on consecutive singles.

_. The night before (Tuesday) had not
been quite as profitable. The team tra-
veled to Salisbury, where the Catawba
Indians won a 16-9.slugfest. Said Greer,
“It’s.a hitter’s ballpark. If we get into a
hitting contest, we don’t have as much
consistency as we'd like to have.”

Beaver led off the game with a ‘solo.
homer, and catcher Phil Gordon added

two to the cause.

 Wlitetay ciate the soasn, denieled te i
Wingate to play a team ranked $-& 2 “

preseason in the NAIA. As_

Bames wes it, Sse hit the wed out ut of ‘

a4-2 win.

the ball.”” The Wingate right fielder had

three home runs off in the:15-3 win
Saturday, however, the: ey fared

better as it split a twin billing with Ap-

culprit in the loss. “We should have won

both, but we didn’t hit inthe clutch,” ac-

cording to Greer. Wiley had a spi
mound effort in the. first gam

eee:
