Volume LXXIiI,Number 6

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 5 November 1982

West, Phailbus to Speak

Honors and awards to be conferred at Fall Convocation

By DUNCAN FRASER 86

Davidson College will confer ho-
norary degrees on former governor of
South Carolina and ambassador to Sau-
di Arabia John C. West and President of
-Kinnaird College for Women in Lahore,
Pakisfan Mira Phailbus, during its annu-
al fall convocation in Love’ Auditorium
at 10:30:a.m. tomorrow. -

Davidson College President Dr. Sa-
muel R. Spencer Jr. and Vice-president
for Academic Affairs Dr. T. C. P. Zim-
mermann, will preside and confer the
honorary degrees on West and Phailbus.

The main speaker at the convocation
ceremony will be West, while Phailbus
will deliver a short “Message from Pak-
istan” and address a private luncheon
following the convocation.

The Fall Convocation ceremony
highlights Parents’ Weekend 1982
which will run November 5 through 7
and includes music by the Davidson
Wind Ensemble and Concert Choir. Ad-
ditionally, the following awards will be
presented:

—The Thomas Jefferson Award which
recognizes an outstanding professor
among Davidson’s 100 faculty
members.

—The Goodwin-Exxon Award, pres-
ented to a sophomore, junior, and senior
judged to exemplify within their class
the highest standards of character, good
sportsmanship, and consideration of
others.

—The Alumni Association Award,
presented to the sophomore with the
highest grade point average in his or her
‘freshman year. .

—Omicron Delta Kappa, a national
leadership society, will tap new
members from the student body who are
outstanding in scholarship, athletics,
social and religious activities, publica-
tions, and other cultural activities.

Lt. Col. David W. Bauer, professor
of military science and commander of
Davidson’s ROTC unit will present De-
partment of Military Science awards.

Additionally, a special $1000 schol-
arship award from Time magazine
through the College Bow! Scholarship
Foundation to Davidson College will be
announced in recognition of the. David-
son College ‘Bewlteain’s ®
achievemént in the 1982 regional and
national championship.tournaments.

West graduated from The Citadel in
1942 and earned his law degree magna

cum laude from the University of South _

Carolina in 1948, after serving as a Ma-
jor in the Army during World War II.
He entered public service in 1954 as a
South Carolina State Senator and served
there until he was elected lieutenant
governor in 1956. In 1970 West was
elected governor of South Carolina.

As governor from 1971-75, West
travelled abroad encouraging foreign
investments in the Sunbelt, particularly
his own state of South Carolina. He was
quite successful in this area as today
there are more than 150 foreign firms in
South Carolina, employing more than
35,000 people.

Following the expiration of his term
as governor in 1975, West led a 15-per-
son delegation of the South Carolina
State Development Board to Jordan,
Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait in search of
business. West’s three-week trip
yielded $14 million worth of contracts
for South Carolina firms and sharpened
West’s reputation as a negotiator.

Former President Jimmy Carter in-
vited West to become America’s am-
bassador to Saudi Arabia in 1977, a post
he held for the next four years. This pe-
riod was a turbulent time in the Middle
East as it included the Iranian hostage

crisis, the Iran-Iraq war, and the storm-

ing. of the holiest mosque in Mecca,

Saudi Arabia, by Moslem fanatics. Dur-
ing this period, West skillfully conduct-
ed American diplomacy by persuading
the Saudis to increase petroleum prod-
uction to compensate for the Iranian
shortfall and gaining access to the top
ranks of the royal Saudi Arabian go-
vernment.

West has since retired from govern-
ment service and conducts a law_prac-
tice in Hilton Head Island, S.C. V
continuing to promote business interests
between Middle Eastern and domestic
companies. Furthermore, West is con-
vinced that peace in the region depends
on finding a solution to the Palestinian

* situation and warns that America must

hile

develop alternative energy sources to
avoid another oil shortage.

Phailbus has been “principal (equi-
valent of president) of the 600-student
Kinnaird College for Women since
1972, shortly before all colleges in Pak-
istan were nationalized. She is credited
with continuing the college’s independ-
ent Christian perspective in the transi-
tion to.a government School in this Mos-
lem nation. Kinnaird is considered to be
the premier women’s school in Pakistan
as evidenced by 80 percent of its stu-
dents’ passing a national exam in a
country where the average is 26 percent.

(Turn to page 19)

Anorexia examined at Rusk

BY PAULETTE KURANI 86

Rusk House hosted a panel discus-
sion on Anorexia Nervosa entitled “Ev-
erything You Always Wanted to Know
about Anorexia But Were Afraid to
Ask” on Monday, 8 November. The
Committee on Women’s Concerns and

_ the Y-Block on Nutrition sponsored the

talk.

The panel consisted of Dr. William
Skeen, a family physician from Moo-
resville; Dr. Barbara Ballard, a psychol-
ogist from Charlotte and” part-time
counselor in Davidson; Ms. Anita Jolly,
a clinical dietician in Charlotte; and two
Davidson students, Pam Steadman and
Marian Hill, both former anorexics.

Contrary to popular belief, Anorex-
ia Nervosa is not a new illness, even

though it has increased by 50 percent in —
the last five years, and it-is primarily a —

female disease, although a few male

anorexics exist.
“Nobody knows exactly why Ano-

~ rexia is more prevalent today ,” said Dr.

Skeen, “but the changes in society may
have a great bearing.on it. Young wom-
en now seem to be more susceptible to
anxiety and depression and less able to
cope with them than women in the
past.”

According to the panel, the concept
of beauty, which gradually changes
through time, is also another factor in
the increase, as young women strive for
the perfect, thin female figure so em-
phasized in the media.

Anorexia is not limited to any per-
sonality type, said Dr. Ballard. The
women who get it are usually of average
or above average intelligence, and come
from economically stable families. It is
an emotional problem and can be the re-

(Turn to page 19)
