Record reviews with Jon Glance

James

Second Chance

Second Chance is something of a
“greatest hits” package for James
Chance, who returns to the public ear
in the persona of James White, them-
atically a demented half-brother to
Ornette Coleman. Chance was not so.
long ago the New York critics’ da- |.

. tling and the bane of all listeners with
_.$mall ears with his debut on.Eno’s No
New York. sampler, ‘followed by
strong albums by the Contortions:
(Buy the Contortions) and by James .
White and the Blacks (Off White);
These two. groups continued the same Bi
Jine-up, fired, hired, and renamed by . es
“Chance ‘after their first album: ~~ "™
This is not. an easy album to listen
+-to. Chance proves himself a dedicated
follower of funk with the steady-.
groove (often bordering on straight .
disco) laid down. by the bass :and:
drums. However, over this dance beat.)
. jahgles unnerving rhythm guitar and —
slide guitar-licks, along with an occa-

sional use of the organ as a percussion garde fk’ He also screams‘out the
lyrics like a psychotic soul man: This |
combination of funk, dissonant jazz,
and rock will probeoiy a Slieate Hipten-

P Play Within A Play

_ instrument. ‘As for James Chance, he
| plays the meanest (with emphasis on
ae) fs free j jazz alto sax lines i in avant

The i within a play is always fascinating. But a
Play Within a play within a play? Deathtrap is that and
i ty boggles the mind. -

Last Wednesday, April 7, the Hippodrome Theatre

of Florida Ira Levin’s comedy / thriller to a
large and thoroughly entertained audience ‘in Love
Auditorium. When the audience wa¥ not laughing at
strange characters or clever plot twists, it was sitting

back trying to figure out what would happen next in the —

ory. Or it was screaming.

the Davidson ‘audience, however, Deathtrap was en-

. After the recent traveling flops The Most

Happy Fella and Little’ Chicago, Desihiroy was a
breath of fresh air.

The play is about a once-famous playwright, Sid-

ney Bruhl (Richard Bowden), who has failed to write a

successful: thriller in many years. When he receives

whiten este teide Scions eee se porn ome of

16

pis funny. And it is scary. Best of all for

his former students, Clifford Anderson (Kevin Rains-
berger), who is asking for critical advice, Sidney beg-

"ins to: consider plagiarism. It gets more complicated

from there, and any more elaboration on the plot would
give much of the story away for those who intend to see
the movie.

It is very dangerous to criticize a play that was as
entertaining as this one. However, it was hard to avoid
wondering how much more amusing, eerie, and sus-
penseful the play could have been under a better cast.
Though Richard Bowden’s Sidney was adequate, it
was missing that sinister sophistication that the role re-
quired. He didn’t behave like'a clever and desperate
playwright would behave.

Kevin Rainsberger as Clifford supplied about all
that was f for the role, He successfully com-

_bined the innocence of a striving young author with the

chutzpah of a ladder-climber.
The first few scenes were: ‘hurt mostly by Laura

Sarg nn a: DA AEE 8 cs Sen 1B Te ad

ers, which isa shame since this. is
-* some: of ‘the most imaginative rock
and roll to come around in a while.

Second Chance contains two ver-

Contortions.

sions of the Contortions theme song
“Contort Yourself.” With nihilistic
lines such as “You better try being
stupid instead of smart,” and with the
chaotic violence, you’re never quite
sure how to take the song or the sin-
ger. At times, Chance is definitely
sneering at you, the listener (as in the
sleazily fascinating obscene phone
call which is the core of “Stained
Sheets”), while‘at other times serious
themes emerge. A common theme
from Twentieth Century jazz may be
found in “Almost Black,” where
Chance mourns the fact that he isn’t
black, since if he was he would be a .
better musician and have that ever-el-
usivé quality called “soul.”
Aficionados of “safe” rock and roll
will probably find-the-album confus-—
ing and downright unbearable. This is
as it should be. True innovators have
always been deemed “wrong”; in jazz
look at Taylor, and Dolphy, and
Coleman, and Ayler, and in rock look
at Captain Beefheart, and now James
Chance. You may hate him, but he
will make you think—an attribute
sorely lacking in most music with this
good a beat: So. give No Wave a
chance . . . listen: to Second Chance!

Whyte as Myra Bruhl, Sidney’ s wife. Though the ac-
tress. has over-one hundred TV commercial credits
along with three movie credits, her talent was well hid-
den in Deathtrap. Her face was frozen into a single
cross-eyed expression of panic throughout the play.

She even shuddered when Sidney looked out the win-
dow. 3:
Whyte’s failings were counteracted by the energet-

ic performance of Maggie Beistle as the psychic Helga

Ten Dorp. Helga was.a constant comic relief through-
out the play who becoimes an important character as the
play progresses.

There were flaws. Everything wasn’t perfect. But
that did not matter. The script carried the show. Death-
trap is.a clever, skillfully written play that I look for-
ward to seeing in movie form.

Thurston Hatcher ‘85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 Aprit 1982:
