Clark, y bkai on WDAV'SF ‘
cember 16, 1981. ee:

soles a cane
v Ata conference of Solidarity i ns uk, Decotiber
10-12, 1981, Andrzei Gwiazda, Walesa’s more. mil-

itant assistant, in a way took the conference over. He
pushed for demands that the regime had already reject-
ed, saying that if these demands were not met, Solidar-
ity would call for a national referendum | on two issues:
whether to continue to have a communist government
and what military role Poland should continue to Play
in the Warsaw Pact. These are two questions which a
communist regime is totally unwilling to countenance, -
which the Soviet Union would not tolerate and which
Walesa himself had been very sanguine about. Solidar-
ity’s moderates felt that they should not push that far
into the political realm, which in a communist system
is not only unprecedented , but realianically sito
ble to the'party.

At the same time the ecomonic situanee wees
deteriorated in Poland that popular support for such a
movement pushing to these levels was very doubtful:
A Solidarity leader, Tadeusz Kowalek noted iaceenty -
at a colloquium at Princeton’s Woodrow. Wilson.
School that perhaps Solidarity’s popularity among the
Polish people peaked as early as last May. When Solid-~
arity made its initial gains the people expected three
things: one, more food and goods; two, better health
and social services; and three, better housing. None of
these have ; | and in fact all three have deterio-
rated seriously, pa arly in the last six months. Ina:
way, the Polish | popular mood has turned increasingly.

: iatism. ippheigen harlem

as pears that the military has complied and indeed carried «
Or . out its task with perhaps
‘the: amy had to storm some factories, but met net War":

sperati “ek a pllcatabid ide tie alec’ of te
ge , more militant members of the movement to

sneral characteristics of the younger militants,
“Unlike their elders or ven: someone like Lech

"Walesa, they do not remember the war-the appeals not.

bring Poland under the threat of destruction go un-
- The militants are really not even the genera-

| tion ‘of the 1970 strikes which brought the government

down. ‘but then moderated its demands afterwards,

proving that one has to work within the parameters of
* the Polish situation. The younger generation does not

realize that one can only go so far with one’s big neigh-

bor always watching. Documents reveal that some of
Solidarity’s militants confidently believed that the go-
vernment or thé Soviets had lost: the will to stop the
” movement! The revolution in Poland has been’ a very
“heady 18 months for the Solidarity movement. They
succeeded in demand after demand. Their fameor not-
oriety, their ability to make news, their ability to push
their political and other views in a system which has
not tolerated it before became a very embracing expe-
rience. This process has led some militants to believe

thet the limits of change are boundless.

- Relationship of Military and Party

The leadership of the military is very ioealy tied in
"with the regime and indirectly or directly with the com-

munist party. The interesting thing right now is of

course the party leader, General Jaruzelski, a military —
map by training, who is also the defense minister and.

the prime minister. Nobody has ever held these three

‘roles simultaneously: before. General Jaruzelski’ is
_ widely respected for his moderation-and for his patriot-

‘ism. He has, I think, the loyalty of most of the army,
including even the enlisted man, and the loyalty of the

"average Pole within certain limits as well, He appears
to have been able to draw upon that loyalty more than

traditional ‘party. leaders such as Stanislaw Kania who

. was replaced not very long ago by Jaruzelski, or Gierek .
_. ‘who was replaced 18 months ago: So there is now a
D martial overlay on the Party which has not existed be-

With the limited information that 9 we have, it ap-

limited resistance: certainly -

ae _ despread or mass resistance.

the primate of Poland, has said, ' “ye wil not:

ituation does not come about. Archbishop

ae oy. frome the Wess the spe. 0 sneUESZ hilton over.

Say See some of the more moderates in the move-
hia “ment nc luding Lech Walesa himself. There are several

ing hove ibe a variety it teammse tou the lack oftresist
at-" ance. The Poles themselves do not want to get caught
so in the dilemma of Pole shooting Pole. The Catholic —

church has called very'actively for moderation s so

“Position of the Chirch

‘There is calithing: asl sect, which ties the Polish
- Catholic Church together with the Polish communist
~ government. ‘Although ‘they: ‘are certainly antagonistic
in the realm of political or religious ideas or even in the
‘view of what is proper for Polish society, they both
have a lot to lose if the Soviets intervene. One is the re-
ligious. freedom and toleration in Poland which is un-
precedented in the rest of Eastern Europe. Another is
the internal autonomy which the party has enjoyed over
the last 20 years. This helps explain why they push for
. gradual change rather ent sudden, ‘Cataclyeinic
change. ae .

Will Reform Coiitinue?

If General Jaruzelski. remains ie veins as prime
minister, party leader, defense minister, and general of
the army, at least part of the reform movement would
still be intact whether it would be a Solidarity such as
we have seen in the last 18 months or perhaps the Solid-
arity of the first six months of agreements. The reform
movement may emerge with only a limited right to
strike than an open right to strike, with a Solidarity par-.
_ticipating on workers’ councils, but not necessarily de-
termining economic policy. F think s reform will
‘occur within: the party itself, particulary reform in the
economic sense because Poland’s economy was al-
ready in a crisis state before the arrival of Solidarity:

I think that the people in the military and.those in
the party behind the military crackdown now know that
for Poland to:continue; the economy is the chief.area
where changes will have to be made. Some kind of lib-
eralization is needed which would unleash productivity
and: changes in moving from extensive to intensive
economic growth. This would relieve the problem of
_ shortages in industries which have had all kinds of
massive credit infusions over the last decade, but really
have not changed their structure because of centralized
planning. The last 18 months have shown that econom-
ic change i is inevitable in one form or another.

Poland needs what has beeh happening quietly in
Hungary. There, at least on the small shop level, there
is a good bit of individual initiative given through ma-
terial incentives and unrecognized private enterprise to
“make sure that goods get to the shelves, that farmers
- produce enough food so that one does not have: to spend
massive amounts on bring in foreign grain or other
types. of goods to make up STORTAESS.

"Econo mic Situation ‘

ae Rie, 3 a .
at Pile ot aperah was Poland’s tradi-

heavy sendpeage ices industries; aces had

- to find the means to do it. What Gierek did was to bor-

