Bo-Ho Gets Sick

Iqvestt going to write anything this
week, because I am.sick. When I told
my ‘editor of my decision, they were im-

mediately sympathetic to.the problems

of: my ‘fragile condition. “Why don’t
you just write about being sick?” said
one. “The paper’s going to be small
enough this week as it is” said the other.
“Besides, your arm’s not broken, is it?”
Well; its’ not everyday. that one finds
such a gentle, caring attitude. in his su-
periors, so I decided to try. to squeeze
one out for Stewart and Brian. Besides,
I know Van Beck would be disappoint-
ed not to hear from me this week.
‘Being sick can be inconvenient. Since
Monday afternoon I have missed most
of my classes and two days of work. The
latter fact will rear its ugly head again in

about two’ weeks. wtiatilhave t conie
up with the rent. I‘will be reminded of
the former when review time comes
around (I still need a B in my major to

graduate).
. Being sick can be - embarrassing.

» Monday Heft Dr. Mackelway’ S seminar

early, pleading malaise: Several hours
later we met up while I was running an
errand. He seemed interested in the fact
that I was out in the cold-night air so
soon after fleeing to my bed in pain.

_ Most of all, being sick can be uncom-

_ fortable..Have you ever noticed that

when you’re sick, the middle of whatev-
er you are lying on suddenly becomes
higher than either end, thus shuning all
your blood into your already throbbing

Record reviews with Jon Glance
. ny Dy, y

‘4-Skins:

_ White N eighborhood

ae of the problems of the contem-
porary DJ is the dilemma over wheth-
er to Play albums by groups with te-
pugnant political and personal views
‘(¢.g. fascists and racists). This EP is a
case in point, because, although the
music is very good, the politics be-
hind the band are allegedly very bad.
| The ow. is heavily influenced by
' the heavy. grooves of James Brown
‘down to the grunts and field hollers,
and the more soul dipped New. Wave
~ bands; The basic quartet consists of
_ two, guitars, bass, - and- drums, ‘ace.

"ground singers and a hot sax section _

_ which mixes Motown burps with free

_ jazz screeches. The EP itself includes

four. uptempo jams and one song
(“Strings to Your Heart”) which com-
bines Latin ballad passages with fast

_ fock rhythmns. This ‘song also fea-

tures the solo work of ‘guitarist Eggs
McDonnell (probably not his ‘real
name), while. the rest of the cuts have
solos by an uncredited tenor saxapho-
nist. |

The best song on this album is the —

empassioned -“White Neighbor-
hood”. However, this song also raises’
the most questions about the band.

What at first seerns like an entertain- . ;

ing hard funk. song about what people ~
eat in different neighborhoods (“Well
it might be cooking like the White
House/With fancy French cuisine/Or

WEEE Ty eG US Daeg UA Re rl Pepa. WS tbe es
‘ vee LM paige tte OM ary ere ee pent h op

~ head? Also; for reasons that still escape

modern science, as soon as you get sick,
your clothes (or pajamas) lose their abil-
ity to breathe? Its hell when your own

clothes make you claustrophobic. What »

about the sneeze that plays around in
your head for hours, making your eyes
squint and watef every few minutes, just
‘to let you know it’s still there.

It’s all enough to make: you not want
to do anything but watch your eyelids.
That’s why I feel so grateful-for people
like my dear editors. Kindly but firmly,
they remind one that life does go on,
that all the little people deserve some
extra effort on our part. That is why I’m

_ writing something this week. And that’s

how I feel about being sick.
By John Hartman ‘82

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT
IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More information Contact:

L

it might be cooking like the South
Bronx...”), continues to a‘ refrain of
“White Neighborhood--Sieg Heil!
White Neighborhood--Sieg Heil!”
The question is does the band really
mean this, and are theyall neonazis?
According to a friend:from England,
the 4-Skins play before packed

houses of National Front skinheads.
The back cover would also seem to in-
dicate rather Right Wing politics--the
members. of. the’ band are shown
‘standing around a buming crossamid -

* urban blight. However,. inthis same~

picture, the bass player is revealed to
be black, which ‘furthers the confu-
sion. If the band is merely satirizing |

the racism of the neo-nazis, they’re
certainly being subtle about it; but
with a band this funky I suppose this
is possible.

- While it may be disturbing to some

_ that a band would take or even joke

about taking a militant stance of white
supremacy, there is no taking away
the fact that the band is very accomp-
lished musically and very danceable.
So, if you’re ready for the dance
movement.for the street riots of the
future-as pictured by various survival-
ist groups, take the-4-Skins EP into’
your fallout shelter and indoctrinate

‘. your youth for the future, while danc-

ing on:the I.

