This has been a big week for me. On Monday I ex-
ercised my first executive privelege as official David-
sonian Staff Member. I made a real live prime time
long distance telephone call to John McEuen in
Springfield, Missouri. As you know, or perhaps don’t
know depending on how successful you’ve been at
finding spots, McEuen will be playing in our dear old
900 room this Saturday night. With Beer. How much
you know about John probably varies in direct propor-
tion to how long you’ ve been at Davidson. As a senior,
I am prepared to tell you how many teeth show when he
smiles and what kind of banjo strings he uses. This is
not, however, to say that John McEuen has or will ever
overstay his welcome here. McEuen is an adroit often
dazzling musician/vocalist/poet/story teller, and will
always be welcome here. We can expéct to enjoy his
expertise on the guitar, banjo, mandolin, fiddle, and
anything that he may have taken up since he was here
last winter, applied toward a ecclectic mix of material.
When I asked him if he had any preferences among
those instruments, he admitted emotional ties with his
beautiful Gibson banjo, which has become his trade-
mark. And he said that playing the fiddle is always
somewhat of a struggle. We’d never havve known.

Davidson will be the next to the last stop of a three-
week tour that John is making with guitarist David Sy!-
vester and bassist Michael Coleman, both of whom are

"often heard in the company of one Doc Watson. John

went on to say that he loves:to come to Davidson be-
cause he always gets to eat some of that fine food in the
Union Cafe.-He wanted to know how C. Shaw Smith
is, and if we had gotten Ms. Pac-Man in the game room
as of yet. “It’s harder,” he explained.

After a short discussion on the aesthetics and role
of folk music, which I shall leave out in deference .to
David Lyon’s Folk Corner, I asked John about his tour
of the U.S.S.R. with the Dirt Band (formerly the Nitty
Gritty D.B.) a few years back. He grew thoughtful and
serious, as they say. Rather than deliver a speech, he

_ told mea story. The Dirt Band was attending a do of the

Russian songwriters’ union, and John was talking with
one of the premiers from Melodyia, the Soviet record
company. “There’s just one record company in the
U.S.S.R.., like there’s just one of everything else.” The
man told John that if a Soviet musician has come up
through the conservatories and is doing well, he will be
taught to write “in the proper way.” Then, maybe he’ll

get to record, sooner or later. John asked him what hap-

fith John McEuen

pens if some guy walks in off the street or out of the
woods and can play and sing and just happens to be a
good performer. The answer was much the same. This

"person would go to the conservatory and learn to write
and play in the proper way. “No. You don’t under-

stand. What if a guy can already write. Say he can sing,
maybe play some nice melodies on the guitar. He has
some songs of his own. Maybe they are protest songs,
trying to get across a message.” The hook was now ba-
ited. The answer came, “We don’t have protest singers
here. There’s nothing to protest.” This gentleman ob-
viously does not know that Tass is not the world’s only
news agency. There's more, but you get the idea. Of
the future of the U.S., McEuen says “Well, Ill be here
no matter what.”

John McEuen has been a friend to Davidson and to

' good music. We hope that he will remain both fora .

long time to come. The shows will be this Saturday, at

- 10:00 and 11:30. Although he told me he’d rather play

at nine. Come to the Nasty Rathole Valentine’s party
after that, or even earlier, but not before ten unless
you’re bringing food or other gastronomic entertain-
ment,

By John Hartman ‘82

yrs

Ag pl)

c (ESO) Lin

emma ¢

an |
N

a

AND F THOISAND o1Mee. THINGS v
SERVING DAVIDSDN. STUDENTS
FOR th. RVEReS — FREE Gott Wen.

& WRLLAAE
ATORIE

“GR Mes ir ALL Ht | -
¥ on ACA Occrenited @unp secia.liging
UL water sports with added empnsc
on land sports is looking or iia
COUNEL\ene of Doys ard give Gelwean,
He 0G Of 7 Thee Counsdovs.
mud have the ability to-tendh in
One OF MOI OF 4eomIS Q.civities

A> MEMO BOACDS ~
an d PLANTS,
y Ye +A POSTERS

| 4 aN MUGS

GIFTS -Crens _

YOURE ALAS weycotnE |

RE WHE WALLACE Spore -

No SoutH MAIN ST. — DAV LO SON . SIZ-44ID

“ihe: more information write. Campthurderd

. alt RY 7, Bor sd

 $-0A-201 Clover, 5.C.2410

a : _* DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 3
