AI Drinks Coffee

for Peace

By RICHARD RICHARDS ’84

The smell of apple cider, the dim
light of white candles, and the mystery
of oriental tapestries enhanced the at-
mosphere of a noncommercialized
Christmas which 175 people celebrated
in advance. Various members of the
College community entertained the as-
sembly with music, poetry, and drama,
echoing the themes of Amnesty Interna-
tional. AI’s First Annual Christmas
Coffeehouse was a quiet success.

The coffeehouse was motivated by a
cause consonant with the mandate of Al
as a “worldwide human rights move-
ment which works impartially for the re-
lease of prisoners of conscience: men
and women detained anywhere for their
beliefs, color, ethnic origin, sex, reli-
gion, or language, provided they have
neither used nor advocated violence.”

Dr. Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldes
of Davidson informed AI of the plight of
Gustavo Arcos, a political prisoner in
Cuba, and Davidson’s AI chapter or-
ganized this event to extend hope and
support to his family. They collected $1
donations to send to the family and en-
couraged people to write letters and to
sign petitions of behalf of Mr. Arcos. Al
Chapter President Elizabeth Kiss hopes
that this effort may have “gotten the ball
rolling” for the Arcos family.

Perhaps more structured than a cof-
feehouse should be, the program
opened with two hymns by the Gospel
Choir. Other singers and musicians who
performed for the occasion were Cathe-
rine McMillan, Sylvie Adenis, James
Barrat, James Funsten, Frank Brice,
Laura McDonald and Sam Sommers.
Local singer / songwriter John Stanfield
also appeared at the end of the program
to sing two songs.

Professor Tony Abbott brought to
the attention of the audience the “rich
tradition of the poetry of freedom.” He
proceeded to read poetry by Denise Le-
vertov that was written during the an-
guish of the injustices of Vietnam. Eli-
zabeth Kiss read a translated Hungarian

poem that was written in 1951 but which
could not be printed due to the commu-
nist suppression of literature. The
poem, “One Sentence,” movingly de-
scribes the evidence of tyranny in the
land. Elizabeth said that the poem was
printed within 48 hours of the beginning
of the revolution of the Hungarian peo-
ple in 1956, and this attests to the
poem’s truthful voice of experience.
Students Suzanne Dickey, Robin Kidd,
John Richards, and professor Lauren
Yoder also read poetry. Religion pro-
fessor Dan Rhodes read the United Na-
tions Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, beginning, “All human beings
are born free and equal. . . .” This docu-
ment srves as the basis for the AI Man-
date.

One highlight of the evening was
Eric Fichtner’s and Roy Fuller’s dra-
matic performance of excerpts from C.
P. Taylor’s “Good.” The play dramat-
izes the social situation of Nazi Ger-
many as it strains the friendship of a Na-
tional Socialist Party member and his
Jewish friend.

Christmas Gift
Fund Recipient
Chosen

The Chapel Committee has chosen
the Agricultural Rescue Operation in
Southern Lebanon, organized by the
Middle East Council of Churches, for
the 1982 Davidson Christmas Gift
Fund.

During the recent Israeli invasion of
Lebanon, all the crops of southern Le-
banon were-destroyed; there was no fuel
for irrigation, no workers to harvest
oranges, farm roads were destroyed,
and planting schedules were disrupted.

. The Agricultural Rescue Operation
seeks to provide barley and wheat
seeds, fruit seedlings, dairy and irriga-
tion equipment, cattle vaccines, bee-
hives, reforestation aid, and more.
These should design help the local farm-
ers become self-supporting as soon as
possible. The A.R.O. will also provide
medical and social services to families
in the region.

The total budget for the A.R.O. is
$178,000. The Davidson Christmas
Gift Fund hopes to raise $7,000 for this
relief effort. The fund is coordinated by
the Chaplain’s Office, and student vo-

__ lunteers serve as the solicitors. All the

Davidson contributions will be chan-
neled through the Office of World
Hunger of the Presbyterian Church,
U.S. One hundred percent of the contri-
butions will go to the A.R.O.

ews Shorts

WDAV
Radiothon
Successful

By BOYD BLACKBURN ’86

Last week’s fourth annual WDAV
Radiothon collected $70,757 in pledges
from almost 1,400 contributors. Over
200 volunteers, organized by staff
member Pam Stephenson, solicited the
money from classical music lovers in
WDAV’s listening area. Station manag-
er, John Clark, said he expected more
contributions to be coming through the
mail.

The Radiothon lasted from No-
vember 28 to December 5. In order to
encourage audience participation, the
station aired several special events dur-
ing the week including a live broadcast
from the Morrison Room of saxophone
and string quartets from the North Ca-
rolina School of the Arts. ,

The funds raised will be used to in-
crease the hours of the professional staff
and replace the twenty-year-old produc-
tion console now in use. The new con-
sole, equipped with a state-of-the-art
computer circuit board, will cost be-
tween $12,000 and $15,000. It will be
used to make and mix tapes of live musi-
cal events such as Charlotte Symphony
Orchestra concerts.

According to Clark, the station
wants “to continue to provide an excel-
lent classical music and cultural arts
programming service.” From the results
of the Radiothon, it is evident the public
supports WDAV’s commitment.

SGA Mail

Service

By ROXANNA GUILFORD ’85

Changes are due soon in the three-
year-old SGA mail service. Although it
was revived five weeks ago, no perman-
ent workable plan has been established.
This task will be in the hands of Sentelle
Dorm Senator David Hutchinson.

In past years, students left their mail
in the faculty mail room for the Resident
Advisors to deliver. This system, ac-
cording to SGA chancellor Mark Olden-
burg, was not always well-accepted by
the overburdened RAs. In addition,
slow delivery beset the system. Hut-

chinson remarked that it would often
take more than a week for a letter to be
delivered.

By the end of the 1981-1982 year,
the mail system had disappeared. How-
ever, a few weeks before fall exams, the
SGA reinstated the:service. Now stu-
dents take their mail to the faculty mail
room where Hutchinson picks it up.
While later on there will be a division of
responsibility, Hutchinson says, “Now
I just deliver it myself.” Although he
can be counted on for almost same-day
delivery, he plans to develop a new sys-
tem using the Dorm Senators to deliver
the mail. He anticipates that these
changes will be made within the next
couple of weeks.

Both Oldenburg and Hutchinson
acknowledge that relatively few people
are aware of the service. “Not a whole
lot of people know about it,” admitted
Oldenburg. Hutchinson agreed: “I don’t
think as many people have taken advan-
tage of it as could have.”

Winter Elections
Postponed

By JEFF MANN ’84

The SGA announced this week that
Winter term elections will be held the
third Tuesday after Christmas break in-
stead of this Tuesday as normally called
for in the SGA By-laws. Students will
vote for Union and Y-Student Service
Corps officers, Freshman advisors, and
Davidsonian, Wildcat Handbook, and
Quips and Cranks editors 18 January
with sign-up deadline 11 January, ex-
cept the Y signup which ends this
Thursday.

SGA Chancellor Mark Oldenburg
cited a “lack of foresight” for the delay,
saying, “We just weren’t ready.” SGA
Vice-president Boe Young said they
hoped to get better publicity next
month. “That last week is bad anyway.
There are a lot of exams,” he added.

Up to now, the delay has caused
problems only for the Y, hence the early
sign-up. Y President Cathi Dumas said
they ‘have scheduled a retreat for the
third weekend and needed to know who

. intends to run in order to organize it.

She expects the offices to be uncontest-
ed. .

|: ile ie ri i ie eel iia i ha ke a ean naar eg ANS

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10,December 1982...

4
