. In 36 lige Sec wil tise cts:
_ making technique:. Art Professor Larry Ligo bélieves ©
that from the time.of the first Daguerreotypes titil to-
day, photography and painting have been: influencing

_ One another in important but often ignored ‘ways. Ligo-:
_is presently researching the relationship between the
and the painter in the 19th century. Some.
of the fruits of this research can be found in Ligo’s 19th os
" eoatury painting course, roughly one-fifth-of which is

now devoted to the influence of y.
Ligo questions the notion; held by some authori-

ties both within Davideou and tut, that photography is 3
somehow not worthy of serious study. His interest in
the history of photography began about three years ago

after he married Martha Strawn, who is a pr essional-
photographer. ‘Since then he has written cr papers
on two: Anne Noggle

contemporary photographers,
Se Lee

pladightateg at wien Siig

di ton pass

groups interested in photo history.

whose work is currently on display in the Davidson Art
Although photography ‘may not yet have the full

: respect 6f ts beteatbillauaee, Ligetesteeoaeretee-
-sional.success in the area and sees p ~.
gin territory” for: art historians. Eventually, ie.
‘lieves the history of 19th century painting will have to
-be redone: Although not sure he is the man for the job, _
‘Ligo says “picture inthe 19th century“ might be an ap- -
‘propriate title for the history which must include pho-
eo eee ——e by

- sult-of Ligo’ s research and writing may be ah :

~ making techniques which have influenced and have
; been influenced by painting.

Ligo now sees his professional writing as having
equal importance with his teaching. Since Davidson's

-hiring of a second art historian, Melinda Lesher, Ligo

has stepped up the pace of his: professional writing
coinciding with ‘his. interest in photography. Until
Lesher arrived, Larry Ligo was the Davidson art histo-

ry department. inhis fast 3 peaks exe, ‘Ligo developed

“a seven new courses 'which allow Davidson students to

major in art with an emphasis in art history. HE also in
" itiated the spring term in France’

which allows
Davidson students the Opportunity to study 19th cen-
tury painting in the Louvre and medieval architecture
throughout France. ‘When Dr. Lesher was hired, she.

- replaced-Ligo in the Humanities program ‘where he.
taught for 2:years. Ligo is content: with the balance of.
professional writing and teaching he has attained.

_ Writing, for Ligo, can never replace teaching. }
confesses to loving the classroom, and believes that hi

photography course which he hopes to initiate ‘at Da-

Rae vidson within the next three years.

: Ligo did not come to be an art historsin without

~ some struggle within himself. Theology has comp

with’ art for Ligo’s energy since. his undergraduate
days; He preached nearly every Sunday while studying
art at Muskingum College in Ohio; a school Ligo re-

ei ~ members as being very similar to Davidson. Following
ms “his study at Princeton minary ;
. Presbyterian minister at the American Church in Paris.
-as assistant pastor for one year. He then returned to the
‘University: of North‘Carolina, where he received his
“Ph.D. in art history”
"Through all his'moves he has tried to hold together his
~géad critical papers to the Society For Photographic Ed-
“ucators and the South’ Eastern College of Art:Confer-
‘ence, both regional

‘On the Davidson campus, Ligo researched and pres-
ented a gallery talk'on the photography of Robert Dois-
neau, Manuel Alvarez Bravo, and Alen. McWeeney, -

, Ligo was otdained a

before coming to Davidson. .
interest in theology and art: Presently, Ligo preaches

-often at churches in the Davidson area. Perhaps Ligo’s
_ Jove ‘of teaching can be partially understood in light of

his ability in the classroom to s ly study art while
not sacrificing a close working relaionship with people:

— the kind of relationship which has attracted Ligo to
_ the church since his youth.

‘Ligo:does-npt allow the alleged jaolstion of Ba-.:

- vidson to interfere with his work.,In fact, he believes
_ the trips he makes with students to the best museums of
-to‘attend professional. micetings inthe United States;
creates 4 near ideal situation for an art historian. For
Larry Ligo, it seems Davidson Sapp oviter se

Poorer Ue ve

- Rak i h, NC 27609" ;
Phone collect 1-919/755-4134

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1962
