Nuclear
Arms

Some.ironic —
foresight in D.C.

Just two days ago our most visible national sym-
bol, the Washington Monument was held hostage
for ten hours. Sixty-five-year-old Norman Mayer,
wearing a jump suit and motorcycle helmet, paced
in front of his van threatening to topple the Monu-
ment unless “a national dialogue on the nuclear
weapons question” was started. Like something of a
cross between Blade Runner and Zamyatin’s We,
this sad, insane happening was laced with deep ir-
ony. Threatening to blow up the Washington Monu-
ment to stop blowing up the world is an act unique to
our time. |

Although this bizarre terrorist act is hornble
publicity for the nuclear arms issue, it is worth look-
ing at closely by both friends and foes of nuclear
arms. Think about it for a minute. This man wanted
to destroy a national monument to help the nation.
Although it’s rather clear cut that violent acts of ter-
rorism are a threat to peaceful means of political
change, sometimes it takes a slap in the face to real-
ize ‘how far off track we are. Although we disagree
with any acts or threats of violence, this man’s idea
is perhaps the most important one facing man. A re-
cent book, The Fate of the Earth, by Jonathan
Schell, describes the importance of the nuclear de-
bate in the following way: “the mere risk of extinc-
tion has a significance that is categorically different
from, and immeasurably greater than, that of any
other risk . . . Up to now, every risk has been con-
fained within the frame of life; extinction would
shatter that frame. It represents not the defeat of
some purpose but an abyss in which all human pur-
poses would be drowned for all time. We have no
right to place the possibility of this limitless, eternal
defeat on the same footing as risks that we run in the
ordinary conduct of our affairs in our particular tran-
sient moment of human history. To employ a ma-
thematical analogy, we can say. that although the
risk of extinction may be fractional, the stake is, hu-,
manly speakingk infinite, and a fraction of infinity
is still infinity.” ;

often we look at the nuclear peril with helpless-
ness. Even if one person could convince his nation
to take the threat of extinction seriously, there are
stil other nations out of our control. The situation
sounds even worse when you think about the long-
term possibility of nuclear extinction; political
agreements hardly ever last, and science is impossi-
ble to erase. The nuclear issue is not only important
one facing humankind, it is perhaps the most diffi-
cult to solve, There are no clear-cut ways of elimi-
nating the threat of nuclear extinction. Threatening
to blow up the Washington Monument may bring a
lot of bad press to the nuclear issue but it is still the
most worthy of all issues to attempt a permanent so-

lution. .

This week Will Berson has written an Opinions
article on the MX missile for the ’sonian, and future
articles are planned. We welcome commentaries on
the nuclear issue from any viewpoint, be it political,
philosophical, or religious. Although there is an al-
most constant stream of literature of every form re-
lating to the nuclear issue, it is an issue which
should never truly bore us. We can sée no excuse for
the extinction of man, nor could hindsight ever pro-
vide one.

JH
(; a)

be.

Controversy
Good or Bad 43 3 4 Ik I kt kek

By a Meador

7 f

Quite a lot of mail concerning dorm life has come Th IS wee k S.
in recently. I figure the holidays are responsible for
this. Whether. dorm life is Good or Bad is no open-and- g r a 8) h :
shut case. Let’s take a peek at some correspondence. |

“Dear Queerhead [sic], I hate dorm life. Your
friend, Tammy.” 16

Or this: “Dear Ann, I’ve been pondering things like a
life in a coeducational dormitory ever since I’ve been
living in one. First of all, it must be nice to be a guy and
not have to walk up 56 stairs to go to the bathroom. Se-
cond, why is it that the guys’ halls always smell gross
and ours don’t? Also, once I was in.this one guy’s room
where he had this huge fungus growing out from under-
neath [three amazing prepositions—ed.] his mattress.
Maybe that’s why they always smell gross. It seems to
me that they would put the gross floors on top so that
they wouldn’t offend those of us who use non-gross
toiletries. At least then we wouldn’t have to walk
through those gross smells every day. Plus, if they
were on the top, then they could jump out if things
started smelling too bad. I don’t know; are these Good
Things or not? I just think gross smells are Bad, that’s
all. Guys have more gross smells than girls. . .” The
author goes on in this vein for a while, then stops.

Notice this one: “Hey. Cannon: Good Thing. No:
shades. Co-eds. Yeah. Binoculars. Why not.”

And a probable companion letter reads, “Hey. Sen-
telle. Bad Thing. We want shades. Mono-eds. No. Be-
cause.” Nothing like a good controversy, I say.

Perhaps these are a bit extreme. In a more moderate
tone, one letter runs, “Dear Good and Bad Letters, I
think dorm life is Good and Bad because lots of good
things happen in dorms like mixers and secret Santas,
but also I think there are bad things like when they take
shower curtains. I guess all in all there are good and
bad things about both, mostly good pretty much.”

Message boards with raccoons and rainbows and
Ziggy and ducks and Smurfs and Strawberry Shortcake
and Pink Panthers and flowers and happy faces and cal-
ligraphy and oh, dorm life. On peoples’ doors, for gosh
sakes. .

cre
°
-_
©
a
E
3
c
a
re
a
rr
[a

THE DAVIDSONIAN
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

‘The Devidesnian is published Fridays during the schoo!
yeor by the students of Devideon College. Address cor-
reapendence to: Oavideenian, Box 218, Oavideon, NC
2OURE. Phone 706/082-2000, ext. 148 end 148. Offices fo-

tens cost $10 per year, Advertising retes evellable on
request: Second class postage no. USPS 140.208. 1.

Editor: Stewart Cauley

Executive Editor: Brian Butler Staff: Lindsay Biddle Paulette Kurani
News Editor: David Resnik : Christi Baggett Anne Lambert
. Features Editor: Tom Pafford Bili Barnett John Lyday
Sports Editor:.Steve Soud Neil Cooksey Ginna McGee
Production Editor: Ann Meador ‘Mark Elmore Laura McGee
Photography Editor: Anderson Scott Duncan V. Fraser Elodie McMillan
Fine Arts Editor: Qebby Williams Kara Gilmore _’ Matt Morris
Calendar Editor: vy Goodman . Jonathan Glance Peggy Pierotti
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey Jennifer Gotto John Ruppenthal .
Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese Thurston Hatchér Garry Sullivan.
: Frank Hague Rob Hollenbeck Tom Schilling

Graphics: Scot Myers ; Scott Huie . John Verdi
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

Joe Jaworski Andrew Wilson

E DAVIDSONIAN/10 December. 1982
