El-Salvador NOT Just

“Lest there be some misunderstanding, there are
no plans to send American combat troops into action
any place in the world.” So claimed an uneasy Presi-
dent Reagan at a particularly nasty press conference
last month. The subject was, of course, Administration
policy.on the situation in Fl Salvador.

The Administration has determined to send mil-
itary assistance (estimated at more than $81 million)
and economic aid ($104.5 million) to the Salvadoran
government, and to request additional military and
economic aid in the coming years. Many Americans
question the prudence of increasing our involvement
with — as well as whether we should lend military as-
sistance to — an allededly repressive regime.

Recent polls.by Newsweek magazine (and her
overbearing mother, The Washington Post) indicate
distrust and doubt on the U.S. role in the strife-torn
Latin America country.’ Beyond these reactions, Ad-
ministration officials seé a widespread misunderstand-
ing on this situation.

It seems striking the extent to which El Salvador

~as “another Vietnam” (a weak and disappointing sim-
plification) has gripped the minds of people in this
country. This fixation has expressed itself in wides-
pread coverage by the American press, a modest
number of demonstrations, and the peculiar (and likely
ignorant?) support of the rebel forces by such groups as

Hollywood celebrities and the National Council of

Churches (a ghastly way to spread the Word of Christ).

The Administration is convinced that a number of

serious minconceptions exist with respect to the pres-
ent situation in El Salvador. While many claim that
President Duarte’s government is a rightist dictator-
ship, evidence shows it to be a moderate government

dedicted to a massive program of land reform and to -

dealing with the economic and social problems that
have hounded the people of El Salvador. One should
not that the current government is under attack from
both the right and the left.

Another disturbing misconception is that the lef-
tist guerillas are agrarian and social reformers who en-
joy the support of the majority of the people. Adminis-
tration officials — and even the retired Jimmy Carter
— are convinced to the contrary. They believe that if
the guerilla forces are successful in bringing down the
current government, they: will not share power even
with those in their country who support them. The re-
sult would be a “typical Marxist type dictatorship.”
Clearly, if that happens, the human rights situation
would not improve. .

Current evidence makes it obvious that the leftist
guerillas have been far from pristine in their conduct,
and officials of the Organization of American States
are conviced that they have killed innocent people.
These terrorists are receiving arms and support from
Cuba and Nicaragua, and it is quite likely that they are
enjoying the quiet economic support from a variety of
Marxist countries. Certainly, if the guerillas are suc-
cessful, we will have accomplished no more than the

“'acement of a relatively moderate, pro-U.S. go-

10ther Vietnam

vernment for a repressive regime that is actively hostile
to her neighbors and the United States and would be de-
cidedly undependable.

Some say that the U.S. should not involve itself in
the affairs of another country and:that we should be ex-
ceedingly hesitant to meddle in a touchy international
scene. First, it is unlikely that the situation in El Salva-
dor is strictly an “internal affair;” guerilla forces are be-
ing trained and suplied from outside their country. Ad-
ditionally, the American relationship with Israel would
seem to contradict such an attitude. It is unreasonable
to maintain that the U.S. should withdraw assistance
from El Salvador. And should the situation deteriorate,
our President should be prepared to respond with in-
creased American involvement.

El Salvador is — for the present at least — an in-
ternational tragedy and certainly a situation for which
the U.S. should have special concern: Our President is
determined to help stabilize the situation and improve
the lives of those people. Adminsitration officials are
conviced that Duarte’s government is in the best inter-
est of the people of El Salvador — as well as the United
States.

International assistance to foreign governments is
inescapably important. In this case, turning our backs
on El Salvador would be detrimental to both that coun-
try and this one. The judgment of the American leader-
ship is that we should continue to lend assistance to the
most moderate option: the current national government

of El Salvador.
by John Benedict ‘84

ol Camp. New Hope)

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELORS
For Orange Presbytery Camps (Presbyterian Point
-. $100 per week (May 21 - July 31)
-For application, write G. Wilson Gunn, Orange
Presbytery Camps, PO Box 2874, Durham, NC

27705. or call 682-5558 during office hours.
Also see the placement office at your school.

SALEM COLLEGE
SUMMER SCHOOL COURSES
June 28 - July 29

RR Ra

16°:

Applications are now being taken for

For complete schedule, write or call: .
Director of Summer School, Salem College,
Yineton, Falen, NC 27108; _mhens (929 ) T2263.

<i Ti + ARE

DAVIDSONIAN /Frigdiy'19 MVE AU

So bg ape arnt Ei ac oR ET IES
Bee P a e  SE  Ghen eMES

pussies,
mole at 25% a he

S0me ot SOM
AND GIANT PLUSH
SNOOPY wut t rut fe
S34- value

Sepere: pause

ULwo -
stocle -

WRB youenas snore

25.

4 selecLion
Pah 209

