else fey ee ah it is the case all the same. Having
had only one experience in a foreign country since the
advent of what little sentience ee choosing'a top-
ic reed to peas was easy...

water, Victoria is easily accessible to American tour-
d. American dollars. Both are. welcomed with op-

peles eaentie isthe eas

roy Gerla one We had a good
round of “Do You Know,” which she won handily.
“Upon landing in Victoria, several intersting pheno-

mena strike the observer. The Victoria Tourist Coer-
cion Authority (V. T.C.A,) seems to have an unlimited
supply of long legged, high breasted, bright eyed
women, with. which to line the path both to and from
customs. These are especially bred for an ability to ex-
tol the otherwise elusive virtues of the many available
bus tours to various points of alleged interest . .My com-
panion and I, being of the exact age and inclination to
be interested in that kind of advertising, were pretty ea-

sy prey. After promising that we would not.infect, ex-

tort from , or otherwise damage the material or repute
of the fair province of British Columbia (this took a
while, because the one year old in front of us had
thoughtlessly left his 1.D. at home),. we found our-
selves speeding about the city in a double-decker bus
with the Greater Oshkosh Geriatric’s Club and Ezra
and Unis Overcash from Eugene who were on their se-
cond honeymoon. Now there’s not a whole lot to say
about what one sees on bus tours. that i is very interest-
ing,

la wot Wagon by only a narrow strip of roky es

fo get to Victotia, yoo eat anil s

. proved substantially. Generally, we perused the town

in pretty standard tourist fashion. But it was toward ev-

’ ening that the adventure began to show its true colors.

Having brought along no luggage--I can’t really re-
member why--and little money, there was no good so-
lution as to how or where to spend the night. So we de-
cided, in that fine old tradition of the same name, to p let
the future take care of itself.

Well, the future has a way of becoming the present.
and a perfunctory check of local accommodations af-
fired. the. legend. that tourism. is. indeed Victoria’s
number one sport: and prices for rooms are commensu-
rate. Since we hadn’t brought sleeping : bags or blankets

(they were back in Washington with Francis and Mer- —

rill) the idea of sleeping in the damp Canadian night
was a bleak one. So we started looking for a bar that
looked derelict enough to stay open most of the night.

David and I‘figured that if nothing else, we would stay

- there until closing and either get tired enough to fall as-

leep under some tree, get drunk enough that it wouldn’t
matter. Such a place was found to exist about two

blocks from the harbor with a name like the Intemper-

ance Union, it had to be good. Its marquee advertised a
new-wave band called Bing Jennings.
Going into a bar that pretends to be anything but. a

those nonfunctional shoes with straps and pointy heels,
that Farrah Fawcett hair is not yet passe; and that men

“still wear macho gold chains inside shirts that hang un-

bottoned to the fourth rib. As these products of Jovan
Jordache, and Calvin Klein streamed past our stage-

~ side table, I think that the value of liberal arts education

was reaffirmed in both our minds. The connection i is
yours to make. ,

Later, when Bing Jennings showed up, 1 was op-
timistic. Anybody that wears light-up neckties and
plays a metallic blue, 1952 Fender Telecaster is bound
to be good. the rest of the band was rather singular in
appearance and demeanor’ as well, ranging from a
scantily clad singer, toa second guitarist who looked
like Arnold Horshak, to’a cretinous, hulking: drummer
with a falsetto voice.

Later, as I shook, rattled, and rolled around the
dance floor with a girl from Oregon, we got to talking
about our respective travels. It turned out that she too,
until that very day had had no place to stay but was for-
tunate enough to “make an acquaintance” with a guy
who had a trailer and was lending it to her, as he was
gone for the weekend. She and I had a good laugh
about how cold I would be sleesing in the park, and
perhaps even in danger--but I think she missed the
point of the jest; It just goes to show that there’s ~ time
in everyman’s life when he regrets never having learn-
ed to shag or speak Italian or something.

Finally the little hand moved around to the three
and it was time to face the stark reality that lay before.
The early a.m. moon has no doubt seen some strange
sights (to paraphrase RW. Service) on Victoria’ s wa-

~ terfront, but I doubt anything has ever approached the

two guant figures that scurried among the trash cans

* that night. After gathering all the newspapers we could

carry we dropped by Pop’s all night eatery for some
greasy eggs. This was a story in itself, but for another

‘time. After pretty much wearing out our welcome with

Pop, we headed for Sunnyside park for a few hours of
stoic sleep beneath the Victoria Tribune.
I hope that international week is all that anyone

“especially to him. who's doing the writing, so: assume watering hole is always an edifying experience for me. hopes for.it to be.
the usual, Such a bastion of middle class haut culture wasthe In-
After escaping. the clutches of the tour people, "temperance Union. It is in places like these that one - .
“souvenir” ticket stubs in our pockets, the day im- discovers that, in the world at large, women still wear a - , John Hartman °82
_SMITH’S RMY ROT
: ARMY ROTC
FLOW RS ‘LEARN WHAT
ey AT TAKES TO LEAD

: "302 Smith Cirlce :
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

For More information Contact:

oe

\ N/ Friday 15 January 1982 |
