20:

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 April 1982.

“Of all those who have won that
award, he certainly is one of them.” So
said Danny Waddill when the David-
sonian asked him to comment on the re-
cent recipient of the Founders Award of
the National Association for Campus
Activities (N.A.C.A.). That recipient
happens to be C. Shaw Smith, College
Union director, student activites coordi-

nator, and prominent campus’ figure.

(“He’s bigger than two men,” Waddill
added. ).

The award is the highest honor the as-
sociation allots to any of its members. A
secret nomination committee of six
members meets once each year to sub-
mit one name to the Association. Since
their choice must be unanimous, the
award is not given regularly or often.
“Shaw Smith has been a mentor to
hundreds of people across the country,
humanizing campus involvement in a
way we’d all like to emulate,” N.A-
.C.A. chairman of the board Dennis
Pruitt said.

Smith has been involved with the or-
ganization since its beginnings fourteen

_ years ago. In addition, he was Associa-

tion of College Unions International
president in 1974, and received an
award from the A.C.U.I. in 1972.
Union Program Advisor Lyman Collins
praised Smith as a recognized “grandfa-
ther of the Union field.” He admitted
that the award is long overdue. “After
all, Shaw Smith is still -at Davidson,”
Collins said.

Smith, a Mt. Olive, North Carolina
native, graduated from Davidson: in
1939 and received his Master of Arts de-
gree from UNC—Chapel Hill. He has
said that “A Union should be. a labora-
tory for the humanities—a way of per-
sonalizing the academic process . The
union doesn’t substitute for anything or
any place else, but it extends everything

‘else: through experience. and opportu-

nity. 995.33
TheN.A.C.A. award reflects. Smith’s

nationwide 1 reputation in the field of stu-
dent activites programming, and under-

scores his success with the Davidson
College Union: How does the Union
“granddad” feel about the honor? “I

plan to bind it, ” he said.

Flizabeth Smiley “84

