Volume LXXIl, Number 7

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 10 December 1982

Spencer resigns

Surprise Announcement
at Faculty Meeting

By JEFFREY MANN ’84

College President Samuel R.
Spencer, 63, announced Tuesday that
he is retiring as president effective 1 Ju-
ly 1983. Spencer will become president
of the Virginia Foundation for Inde-
pendent Colleges (VFIC), a fund-rais-
ing group for 14 private colleges in Vir-
ginia.

Spencer announced his decision in
letters to the Board of Trustees, student
leaders, and an announcementat the end
of the regular monthly faculty meeting.
“Everyone was very surprised,” said
Prof. Everett Jacobus. “

“(This opportunity will] allow me
the opportunity to continue to work and
earn past Davidson’s ‘normal retire-
ment age,”” Spencer said. The Trustee
By-laws sets the normal retirement age
at 65, with possible extension to 70.

Vice President for Academic Af-
fairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C Price
Zimmermann said of Dr. Spencer, “He
introduced changes of far-reaching
magnitude and built an immeasurably
stronger academic program. I think peo-
ple will look back and see him as one of
‘the greatest presidents in the history of
the College.”

Spencer would not speculate as to
his successor, saying it is a Trustee deci-
sion.
changes in the other officers of the Col-
lege. “I would certainly hope that the
staff will remain intact,” he said.

The Board of Trustees will meet in a
special session at Davidson on Friday, 7
January to meet with students, adminis-
tration and staff, and the faculty to in-
itiate the search process, according to
Board Chairman Fréd Stair. “We think
he’s doing a stellar job as president and
are saddened by his leaving,” Stair said.

He does not anticipate any -

Stair would not speculate on what
type of person the Trustees would be
loking for, or whether he or she might
come from within the College. “We
want to talk to the students and staff first
[at the 7 January meeting] before we de-
cide what we’re looking for,” he said.

The Trustee By-laws state, “The
Trustees shall elect a President of the
College . . . who is a loyal and active
churchman, giving evidence by his life
of the strengths of his Christian faith and
commitment. Such faith and commit-
ment-will be appropriately expressed by
his affiliation with the Presbyterian
Church in the United States and his ac-
tive participation in the life of the Col-
lege Church.”

In his letter to the Trustees, Spencer

said, “I have been seriously concerned

about the effect on The College of an ex-
tended lame-duck period as I approach
sixty-five. For that reason I have delib-
erately tried to keep uncertain the date
of my departure, hoping to leave before
expected to do so.” He ordinarily would
have retired after the next school year.

The Lynchburg-based VFIC is “one
of 40 state foundations set up to raise
money for its member colleges,”
Spencer said. The thirty-year-old group
raises approximately $2 million a year
for its member institutions, mostly from
corporations, but also foundations and
individuals. Spencer has agreed to at
least a four-year term and expects the
office to move to Richmond. Davidson
does not belong to the corresponding
North Carolina foundation.

“So much of my life has been cen-
tered here it will really be a wrench to
leave,” Spencer said. “Though I could
not leave Davidson without keen per-

(Continued on page 11)

The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has
given Davidson College a $250,000
grant for developing curriculum
changes reflecting computer technolog-
y’s impact on the liberal arts education.
The grant will enable about 55 David-
son professors to study the effect of
modern technology on their disciplines.

Samuel Reid Spencer Jr.

D.C. gets $250,000

To promote technological literacy’

By DUNCAN FRASER ’86

Students and and faculty members
from Johnson C. Smith University in
Charlotte will also participate in applied
mathematics training and technology
symposia financed by the grant.

College President Sam Spencer said
the grant is “more important than just
money as it represents a capstone of Da-

(Continued on page !1)

