ports.

Soccer Back on Winning Track

By MARK ELMORE ’82

Last week’s article was just too
maudlin, so I decided that I should write
something merry no matter what hap-
pened. Well, I couldn’t; the impossible
occurred and I just can’t be happy about
it. The team beat Furman 2-1 without
me. Yes, yes I know what you’re think-
ing. How can a car engine run without
spark plugs or a football team win with-
out the front line? It does seem silly to
think that the team could win without
me, but they did.

Davidson started the first half a bit
lackluster, which is understandable
considering that they were coming off
of two straight defeats, but they settled
down in the second half and controlled
the game. Halli Barnett scored first from
at least the 2- or 3-yard line (one of his
longer scoring shots of the year) and lat-
er Tony Cabrales embarrassed their
rushing goalkeeper on a very cheeky
chip shot that glided over his head and
into the net. (Since I have used the mo-
difier cheekyseveral times in the articles
this year, I should explain its meaning.
Internatinal Football Sports Slang Dic-
tionary defines cheeky as follows: 1.
playing with casual elegance under
pressure.)

On Wednesday, I was back in ac-
tion, but it didn’t really help because
University of South Carolina beat us 2-1
anyway. Actually, we should have won
the game. U-S.C. is ranked fifth in the
South and consider themselves far su-
perior to us in soccer. Before the game

the players were laughing and joking
and seemed to take victory for granted;
that is, until we scored. Chris Roberts
kicked a beautiful corneerkick and Jim
Wright headed it into the far corner for
the 1-0. That was the fourth goal for
Wright and his head this year. If he ever
scores with his foot . . . Well, we won’t
have to worry about that.

After we scored, the boys from U-
SC straightened up and started hustling,
and then tied the match before halftime.
Midway through the second half they
scored again and kept the lead to win.
The team cannot be too down after the
game since we played one of the better
games this season. We had several
chances to score and take the lead, but
their keeper either got lucky or made a
great play.

“The team is playing better team de-
fense,” admits Coach Slagle, “That is
the reason for more offensive attacks.
The halfbacks and forwards are break-
ing plays up in the offensive half of the
field and quickly attacking from there.”

With our offense rolling now, that
means that I will probably score again.
(I still haven’t used my “juke and shoot”
combination move, so be looking for it
if I play Saturday.)

The team stands 10-3-4 overall and
4-2 in the Southern Conference. Satur-
day’s match against The Citadel is the
last Southern Conference game, and
next Wednesday’s against Wake Forest
is the last this season. Also, there will be
a barbecue on Saturday during the
game, so bring your parents.

By John Ruppenthal ’84

Sean Austin and Hall Barnett battle for the ball against
South Carolina

~ Catch the Cats in Action Tomorrow:
11:30- Soocer vs. The Citadel
12:00- Intrasquad Basketball scrimmage

2:00- Football vs. Bucknell

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982

