by overlapping responsibilities and is

compromised when one office expects
another to, take care of a project about

which it has heard nothing. T asked for

examples of this phenomenon, but those
to whom I talked were-reluctant to dis-

cuss _ the. subject, However. jin “te-
searching”’ this’ occurance, “everyorie
recognized that while each office has its

oN Sphete of operations; they would -

be.more efficient if they made sure that
“everyone knew ‘what everyone else is
doing”.

Basic. communication : ‘can be very

productive for a college campus. The

problemis I cited above are not unique to.”

a seat myself at 0
». tables. But the] ig non’ sequitur comes
~ when our writer calls people who want

tremendous. expanse of Commons and
of the available empty

flexibility “shy” Don’t bet on it. Call it
independent.

Don’t get me wrong now. I may just
want to join an eating house yet. But as
long as I have to read absurd and irrele-

vant arguments like those of our “Satis-

fied Courter,” Gamma Delta Iota looks
all the mote desirable.

Thurston Hatcher 85

Davidson, as exemplified by the trend:

to hire college Presidents with an-admi-

nistrative as Opposed to an. academic
background. Itis something we all need
to work on, and will be important to a

successful resolution. of the noise ordi- .
nance issue, to putting on social events..
which do not conflict.with each other, to”

making Carnegie Basement feel more a
part of the campus, ¢tc.. Effective com-
munication between the:town and stu-
dents concerning the noise ordinance,
hopefully will prevent unrealistic de-
mands from both “sides”. Ido not know
if broadbased staff meetings, or if for-
malized student participation in more
areas of college admininstration will

help to ameliorate: this phenomenon:

The student Government Association is
helping to resolve the problem through
its inter-campus mailing system, the
Trustee Contact Committee, and other
efforts at achieving greater student rep-
resentation in administrative decisions.
Coffee and cokes serves as a construc-

tive forum for this type of communica- —

tion. These efforts should be actively
encourged and augmented.

To some extent insufficient com-
munication and cooperation is a prob-
lem inherent in any organization, large
or small. However, Davidson is a spec-
ial place. Proper communication would
make that known to everyone.

Keith Hearle ’82

To the Editor:

I find it impressive that several ATO
members were concerned enough to
write an editorial of sorts supporting

eating houses and denouncing the Com- -

mons, In fact, as a freshman with many
questions about eating for next year, I
was hoping for some kind of logical per-
suasion to help me make a decision. No

such luck, I’m afraid. The writer’s argu-

ments were far from convincing.
Somehow I’ve never. had any great

yearning to see. the faces of the people

who wash my dishes, much less do it

myself. And ‘if there’s a. “bunch of ,

jerks” at the next table, I don’t have to

“endure them”; instead : walk across Ste

ToThe Eaitor:

“Malicious; Abhorrent. . Unfounded,
Perverted, Misconstruéd.’ Unintellgent
and emotional are the only words fitting
enough to describe the recent.article in
the Davidsonian aimed at slandering th
newest member on Patterson Court.

Our society is inherently based upon

the principles of capitalism, by which a
.producer provides goods and/or servi-
ces that a consumer desires and/or
needs. If there are several producers for
a similar. good, and if the demand for
these goods is limited, then it follows
that individuals purchasing goods will
select those of the highest quality and of
competitive price. It appears that a fun-
damental situation of capitalism exists

at Davidson College in which a new.

producer of goods and services has en-
tered the market to compete with pre-
existing, traditionalist providers. We of
course refer to the establishment of the
Commons on Patterson Court.

It appears that the authors.of the arti-
cle subscribe to the services provided at
ATO. Also, the authors object to the
loss of fellow subscribers to the Vail
Commons, the new competitive pro-
ducer. In raising argument in opposition
to their loss, it appears that ATO’s sub-
scribers oppose the fundamental doc-
trines of supply and demand; their situa-
tion being one of “supply not adequately
suited, to demand”...If this rationale
prove accurate, then must .we assume
our detractors anti-capitalist? And, if

anti-capitalist, and opposed to the loss ~

of fellow subscribers to a better produc-

er who is more adequately suited to the.

demand, then we must ‘assume that our
interlocutors either enjoy inferior servi-
ces or support a system based on “mar-
‘ ginal for'all, regardless of quality”. We
believe our readers would deem this
system ‘Socialist. Further, if our objec-
tors pose a solution to their “supposed

“inequity”, it is clear that their only logi-

cal-course of action would be the remo-
val or neutralization of the Commons.

As-the.Commons is based on a legal

foundation, this would necessitate vio-
lent action. This would eliminate a valid

ARE Se Og

cone i in A FS deed ane sana

one of America’s most sacred freedoms:

freedom of choice. If our readers’ be so

adaptive in thought to correlate a system
founded ‘on “something for all, regard-
less of individual preference” combined
with violent modes of action, then sure-
ly they can deduce that this. hideous
transfigurement stands as ‘a blatant ex-
ample of Communist agression. We,

the Order of Gamma Delta Tota, never

fail to maintain, protect, and defend the
individual’s freedoms of choice. There-
by, we extend a call to other members of
Patterson Court concerned about this

_ dagger aimed at the heart of American
 _ freedoms, to join our ensign and march

‘towards victory with the annihilation of

the Communist threat -garrisoned '-at
ATO. The hammer and sicle will be
crushed.

The Order of Gamma Delta Iota

To the Student Body:

Four years. My, how time passes
when you’re having fun. Yes, I have
-had fun at Davidson, but over the holi-
days as I reviewed my four years here, I

realized that perhaps I had not gotten out

of my Davidson experience all that I
could have.

Davidson is a small school. It caters

to the student as an individual. All the
brochures say so. The catalogue does

‘too. But what about in reality? When I

came here, as an oh so naive freshman, I
looked forward to the college years,
those years in which myself and the uni-
verse would be revealed to me and in
which I could explore in depth the world
of academia along with my peers who
would be just as curious. Like I said, I
was naive.

To begin with, as it turns out, my
peers for the most part are not as curious
as I about an indepth study of any sub-
ject. Detailed questions in class (by me

or anyone else) are met with groans, ©

sighs and sometimes outright threats of
violence in the hall later. Professors,

sensing the tension and afraid to lose in-
tellectually most of the class (rightly so,

_ | amvafraid) answer noncommitally and

refer it to out of class time. Secondly,
courses here are designed for surface
study of any given topic. This is fine for
introductory courses yet what about the

.. upper levels, especially in one’s major —

field of study? I am a Latin major.
Laugh if you wish, but even if crazy, I
deserve the right to the best, most com-
plete course of study available. The
handbook says that the pre-requisite for
Latin 133 is Latin 132 or 131. Fine. It also

states that for Latin 134-138 one must °

complete them in sequence. No argu-
ment. What happens, though, is that for
some curious reason I and other upper
level students are placed in the Latin 132

class. Consequently, we read Latin on a

«much lower level’ and discuss litrature
with those less well read. This seems to
me an outright contradiction of David-
son’s supposed dedication to “the indi-

’ vidual”. The same thing, in effect, hap-

pens in other areas too. There are no
pre-requisites, or insufficient ones, for
Réligion séminars, upper level English,
Sociology, History, Politial Science,
and-Art History courses. The upper lev-
el students are held back by those with
less background from going. into the
heart of a subject and from making pa-
rallels. and comparisons to other areas
discussed in other classes. This I find
discouraging not to mention dulling for
mental processes. Not only from a stu-
dent’s viewpoint, however, professors
are bound by that least common denom-
inator. And, how disappointing it must
be to have ideas, questions and argu-
ments ready on course material only to
shelve it after the first‘lecture goes way
beyond students’ perparation.

I suppose, after all of this, what dis-
appoints me the most about my David-
son education is, not that I never get
courses without drop-add, not that I get
mixed up with bad numbers at room
draw, not even that I did not get full
credit from the University of Georgia,
where I went to take Some detailed
‘courses, but that I was deceived. I may
have been naive, but I'think my ‘fresh-
man expectations were justified. It has
taken me four years to realize that the
system has trapped me in an adademic
holding pattern. You may say I’m slow,
but my optimism held out almost to the
end. What about you? Oh well, it’s been.

Phoebe Forio ’82

To the Student Body:

I have less than two terms. until gra-
duation and quickly will admit that I
have not taken advantage of all David-
son offers. It is with my Davidson expe-
riece in mind that I ask you as students
to think about what remains of your Da-
vidson education and hopefully avoid
some of my mistakes.-I most regret that
I did. not ask more. questions. I wish I
could relive every class situation when I
almost asked a question but didn’t, or
what is worse shrugged my shoulders at
someone else’s sincere question. We

" Owe it to ourselves and each other to ac-
tively question and think in class. What
better sign is there of a thinking student
than a sincere question?

I regret that I have sat quietly in class-
es where teachers were too nice to ask
hard questions. Maybe they kept me
from looking stupid, but they didn’t
help me to be a thinking person. Have I
paid some $15,000 and four years of my

young life just to slide by quietly and

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982
