Strangers in a Strange Land

Japanese, Pakistam, and French students muse about the down-home life

BY FRED BROADWELL ’83

This week The Davidsonian had the pleasure of
talking with several of the one-year international stu-
dents here this year. These students, from countries as
varied as Japan, Pakistan, and France, have found
many elements of the small, southern, liberal arts life
and the American college system to be quite different
from the systems to which they are accustomed. Fol-
lowing are some of their observations about Davidson,
their home countries, and their reasons for coming here
to study.

Andrés Sanz-Alvarez is from a small tawn outside
of Madrid and has been studying at the massive Uni-
versity of Madrid. He learned of Davidson from other
students studying in Madrid, who introduced him to
Professor Kemp, a Davidson Spanish professor. Sylvie
Adenis and Marie-Renée Michel from Montpellier,
France and Bettina Schneyder from Marburg, West
Germany found out about Davidson through Junior
Year Abroad students. Jaiki Desai from Delhi, India,
Masaya Momiyama from Hyogo, Japan and Ambreen
Fraser from Lahore, Pakistan made contact with Da-
vidson by meeting a faculty member at their schools
who knew of Davidson’s scholarship program.

Attaining fluency in English is a prevalent reason
the students cite for wanting to study in America. “In
Biology all of the text books and new research are in
English. It is a great advantage to know the language,”
says Bettina. Andrés hopes to teach English in a Span-
ish high school and Sylvie wants to teach French in
America. Ambreen intends to go to graduate school in
America. “I want to get a PhD in Psychology, and in
Pakistan they don’t have that,” she says.

When asked about the academic atmosphere of Da-
vidson, their reactions are mixed. Sylvie says, “I like
the academic pressure here. People can be very lazy in
France.” Some of the others, while agreeing that the

_pressure forces Davidson students to get a solid educa-
tion, feel that the academic pressure is excessive. Am-
breen says, “There is a much more pressurized way of
life here. In Pakistan we do more social activities be-
cause we have the time.” Jaiki admits that here he often
gets into a frenzy when a deadline approaches, but that
in Pakistan “people generally have a good time the first
and second semester until the exams at the end of the
year. Students here work more regularly.” Both An-
drés and Bettina do not like the trimester system be-
cause, they say, ten weeks is too short a time to cover a
subject.

One of the international students’ favorite things
about Davidson is the friendly atmosphere. Masaya,
who studies at the University of Tokyo, has attended
lectures with more thari 600 students. He likes the more

intimate relationship students and professors have |

here. Since the idea of a college campus is relatively
unknown outside the United States, most of the stu-
dents find living on the campus of Davidson a new ex-
perience. Marie-Renée likes this small college atmos-
phere because it facilitates getting to know people.

Ambreen agrees with her, saying, “Davidson is a very
good place to begin studying in America because ever-
yone is friendly and you don’t feel left out.” In Spain
Andrés must commute two hours a day to attend class-
es in Madrid. He says, “I didn’t participate much in
student life there; I like the smallness of Davidson bet-
ter.”

The Honor Code is also very popular with the inter-
national students. They are impressed by the Honor

¢

ih ei aca

Bettina Schneyder (West Germany), and Marie Reneé
(France) sit in front. Andrés Sanz-Alvarez (Spain),
Yu-Chien Wen (PRC), Emma Howard (England),
Shirin Hanafi (Pakistan), and Maria Nicolaides (Cy-
prus) sit on the second row. Sylvie Adenais (France),
Jakai Desai (India), Ambreen Fraser (Pakistan), Ma-
saya Momiyama (Japan), and Melis Nicolaides (Cy-
prus) are giving back row smiles.

Code’s success at Davidson, though they do not be-
lieve the system would work elsewhere. Sylvie com-
ments that “in France I was not brought up to trust ever-
ybody . . . here everyone trusts each other.” The big-
gest surprise for them was that they could leave their
doors unlocked. They also like the idea of self-sched-
uled exams.

How does the social life at Davidson compare with
that of colleges in other parts of the world? Many might
not know that in Pakistan, for instance, alcohol is ille-
gal. Ambreen comments: “Here at parties the students
stand around and drink. This just doesn’t happen in
Pakistan.” Dating is also forbidden, although groups of
guys and girls may go out in groups together. This,
says Ambreen, triggers the need for arranged mar-
riages since “boys and girls just don’t get to know each
other well enough.” In Japan, says Masaya, the social
life centers around extra-curricular groups, such as
musical groups or sports teams, which function almost
like fraternities. In Europe the cafés and bars provide
much of college social life. Marie-Renée likes the sys-
tem here better; “‘the fraternities are very active and or-
ganized.”

Commenting on other differences between David-
son students and students of their own country, the in-
ternational students see some deeper contrasts. Bettina

notes that Davidson students preoccupy themselves.

less with politics than German students. In Germany,
she says, “we speak of politics like they speak here of
house beautification. It is not such a big topic here.”
She also believes that “students here are more career-
oriented while in college. German students wait until

-they graduate to cut their hair, get jobs and be like ever-

ybody else.” Ambreen and Andrés cite the wealth. of
the students in Davidson as something that is hard to ig-
nore. Ambreen comments that in Pakistan “the poor
are very poor and there are many class distinctions. A
Car is a necessity here but a luxury there.” Andrés adds,
“at Davidson most of the students area very well fed.”

COE Step yee #

eee hee ae oe mer

oe ad

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982

Jaiki notes that his country is very spiritual and reli-
gious; here they think about God mainly on Sunday, he
says. Jaiki also feels a stronger sense of freedom and
ability to be one’s self at Davidson than in India. Final-
ly, Masaya, commenting on Western influence in Ja-
pan, makes this telling statement: “The first place I felt
at home in the U.S. was at McDonald’s.””

HEALTH PROFESSIONS
SCHOLARSHIPS

If you're planning a career in
medicine you owe it to yourself to
find out about the Air Force's
Health Professions Scholarship Pro-
gram. .

Qualified U.S. Citizens can
receive scholarships for medical or
osteopathic school.

Our scholarships include:

Tuition

Require Books

Required Lab Fees

Required Equipment Rental
‘and More Than $550 Monthly Stipend

USAF Health Professions / 919-755-4134
100 Navaho Drive, Raleigh, N.C. 27609

eke. vee?

