Mark B. Phillips
' Tommy Peters Award (athletic spirit) —
Ray C. Sinclair
Rebecca E, Stimson Award (women’s
award for athletic spirit)—
Emmy J.-Knobloch .
George L. Gladstone Memorial Award
. (to an outstanding rising senior) —
_. Gordon A. Turnbull

Charles Malone Richards Award (for.

contribution to religious life)—
William P. See]
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award (to an up-
perclassman of outstanding charac-
ter)— _
Kenneth J. Krieg

The following awards were an-
nounced at last Friday’s Convocation
ceremonies:

Sandy Black:Memorial Award (to the
most outstanding senior premedical stu-
dent)—
Eric A; Weiss
- David Halbert 1 Howard Jr., Chemisty
- Edgar W. Harlan
Presser Scholarship (outstanding music
major)—
Cynthia A. Clark
A. K. Phifer Award (for distinguished
record in economics)—
Edgar W. Whitesides
Jefferson Davis Award (for constitu-
tional law)—
Neil Cooksey = -
~ Bremer German Language Award—
David M. Rowe
Thomas D. Sparrow Award (for contri-
bution to intercollegiate athletics)—
James M. Hall ~
Susan Roberts. Award (outstanding se-
nior woman athlete)—
Sarah A. Tomlin
James Baker Woods, III, Memorial
Award (to a rising senior ROTC
cadet)—
Harry R. Easterling
George C, Marshall ROTC Award—
John M. Shaw
Daniel Blain Woods Award (to senior
premedical student exhibiting qualities
of a good. doctor)—
Debra E. Freeman

Richard — Ross Memorial Music

Award—
Joan L. Redding

William G. McGavock Mathematics,

Award—
Mark B. Phillips

Tommy Peters. Award (athletic sii)
Ray, C. Sinclair. 3

Rebecca E. Stimson Award (women i:

award for athletic spirit)—
Emmy J. Knobloch

George L. Gladstone Memorial Award . JP
_ (to an outstanding rising senior)— | oo

Gordon A. Turnbull

Charles Malone. Richards Award (for 4

contribution to religious life).
“William P. Seel
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award (to'an up-
‘Perclassman of outstanding charac-
Kenneth J. Krieg .
Omicron Delta Kappa Teaching
Award— .
Dr. David Shi (professor of History)

David Resnik ’85

‘CROP WALK
THIS SUNDAY

fight against world hunger will be held -:

this Sunday, April 25.. Registratin will
bégin. at, 12:45 p.m. in.-front: of

Chambers, with the walk starting at |

1:00pm.

Last year’ s walk raised over $1 ,000
for CROP, which is. the. Community
Hunger Appeal of Church World Ser-
cive, CROP works in more. than fifty
countries including the U.S., helping to
support established hunger relief-efforts
with food, money, and technological
aid.

The CROP Walk will cover a ten- -

mile course out to the Lake Campus and
back. There will be three checkpoints
along the: route. Walkers . will solicit
pledges per mile of the walk: Anyone
who wants to walk and does not have a

sponsor envelope, or who would like to -
sponsor a walker and hasn’t already,: |

should contact Gordon Turnbull, -6409.
CROP is sponsored in Davidson by
the Y Student Service Corps.

El Salvador

Teach-In

The Davidson Coalition on El Sal-

. vador, regrouping from their protest in < |

Washington, is showing a free film, the

Academy Award Nominee The El Sal-
vador: Another Vietnam?, in the -

Chambers Gallery at:10:00 am andthe
Morrison Room at 2:00 pm today.

The group is also co-sponsoring a ~

teach-in ‘with UNCG’s. “Altematives”

group inthe UNCC Friday Building

from 10:00 am to 3:30 pm tomorrow.

For sides es frthee infestation call

_ Mak Bart at 892-4682 or 892-6562
eo

NGL sau ea i CSS a ERT A ee a at

| New Grade Scale ©
‘Receives 2.1

After weeks of kicking around various grade scale
proposals, the EPC has finally come up with what
sounds like a reasonable grading:system: However, if
the grading scale has to be changed, the 0.0 to 4.0 scale

_ 18 not the solution.

According to the EPC memo to faculty and students,
this new system has at least three advantages over the
current grading scale.

“1. The grades reported are also grade points. No con-

_ Version is needed.

2. A wider range of grade options is provided for those
wishing to have this.

3. Student grade-point averages should remain approx-
imately the same.”

All of these points sound fine at first glance but at clos-

" ef inspection they appear useless and, in a sense, con-
ter-productive.

The first point, that no conversion is needed in this
new system, is worthless. Sure, its nice to see your
G.P.A. on the upper right hand corner of every humes
paper, but surely most Davidson students can convert a
B plus to 3.5 or aC to 2.0. Even if you made a D (1:0)
on your Math 25 final, just take a look at the bottom of
your report slip from Dr. Burts to find your term grade
of C (2.0). Instant conversion is not much of a plus or a
minus for this new system.

The third point, that G.P.A.’s will remain “approx-
amately” the same, is also worthless. This point isn’t —
an advantage. Because the new system will not change

‘G.P.A.’s doesn’t mean it is better. Of course, a new-

grading system should keep G.P.A.’s the same.
The second point of a “wider range of grade options

"will be provided for those wish” is the most curious,

what’s the difference between “3.9” ,“Excellent”,
“4.00”, “A”,and “96”? Instead of seven different
grades, as provided in the current system, this. new
grade scale will provide 34 different ways for a student
to be evaluated. There may not be much difference be-
tween a 3.8 and a 3.9 but, you can bet, come exam
time, that a..1 will. make a difference. It’s one thing to
provide a better way of student evaluation and. another
to encourge hyper-grade conciousness. It’s bad enough
having students: who squabble over B's and B pluses,
much less 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, or 3.7; This kind of picky
grading encourages interest in good grades not; good
academics. -
Overall this new grade scale receives a°2. I on the

_ proposed system. (That is, a “Satisfactory” label, 273°
- on the numerical scale or just a C on the current sys-

tem.) Not particularly good:marks for a school that pre-
pares students for grad school- at least a 3. Stone peate:)
See (1.8 to 2.7, ee Se

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982
