Reappointments

and Tenure

The Faculty voted Tgetday to take the
first step toward the formation of a fac-
ulty savy oo committee on reappoint.

Tusa vine by ts Picket
al Affairs Committee to. ameand. the
Faculty bylaws calls for a five-member
Advisory. Committe Reappointmentand
Tenure of tenuted professors, elected by
the faculty and Sry, Staggered three

The. Cominittee want. review. all
reappointment and tenure cases, meet
with Dr. Zimmerman, and make a rec-
ommendation to be included with Dr.
Zimmerman’ s port to President
Spencer, ©

Te cases of aise, ‘the ‘Predict will
de. the recommendation in his re-.

port tor ‘the Trustees, v bet have the final

Trustees is at variance ue nu of the

‘committee's, he peas state his. speemas

similar vine was bata beiiire:
ice en wel ago, but-was de-

ignore. In régard to the problem of fac-
ulty responsibility, Dr. Epes said,
aking a decision that will ultimately

He said the Committee: will consider
opinions from the ‘individual. depart-
ments, the Dean of Academic Affairs,
and students in making their evaluation.

Another concern three years ago was
that the ‘faculty opinion would not have
much ‘bearing on the President’s final
decision. However, Dr. Zimmerman
pointed out that this proposal involves
the formation of an official faculty-
elected advisory committee on both te-
nure and reappointment that has the sup-
pa of President Spencer. “It‘stands to

* he said, “that he (President
Spence) will take seriously an elected
faculty committee which has his sup-
port.”

Dr. Zimmerman said that the present
process for faculty evaluation set forth

‘in the Code of Faculty Evaluation
Procedure will not be changed except to -

allow for the recommendation of the

Advisory Committee. The present pro-
cess involves the ‘faculty members of the

appropriate’ ‘department in’ ‘question

making ‘a ‘written recommendation to
Dr. Zimmerman who then makes ‘his
recommendation to President Spencer,
according to Dr.. Zimmerman.

by Jeff Holland ‘84

The SGA Athletic Committee sent a
letter to College président Sam Spencer

fast Wednesday recommending that the
-» College resume the search for an Athiet-

ic Director. According to the letter it
would be “best for'the reputation of the
college if the adininstration reopened
applications for thé job, ‘since they had
promised to do’so at the beginning of the

school year.” Dr. Spencer-declinied to _

comment on the letter until after a policy
meeting with the Board of Trustees at
the end of this monith. °
President Spencer appointed head
football coach Edward Farrell as:acting
A:D. on 15 July'1981 after health prob-
lems forced‘ his. Gene
Bingham, ‘tO leave the job: Less than a
year before Bingham had replaced Tom
Cartmill upon his ‘retirement: After
Bingham resigned the’ college: needed
someone to.take over the position but
did not have the timé to’condiict an ex-
tensive séatch. “We were “definitely
looking for some continuity in the At-
hietic Department, ” ‘said Dr. Spencer.
Coach Farrell has-established stability

‘inthe athletic department: “The place is
‘running as smoothly as it has since the a

ten years I’ve been here;” said Tennis

Coach Jeff Frank. Farrel‘ eadaiptive and —
organizational abilities have greatly im-
pressed Frank: “Everyone has respect
for him [Coach Farrell] because he’s so
organized. If jesus’Clirist to0k over the
job it would take Him two years: to
learn.” © —
Head basketball coach Bobby: Hus-
sy also praises Farrell: “He [Coach Far-
rell] has done an excellent job of devel-
oping a strong rapport within the depart-

_ment. He has shown the coaches that he

is concerned about their needs and has

« heoped them. develop their programs.”

‘His most important decision so far
has been the’ hiring of a new baseball
coach, but Farrell has also taken steps to
unify. the Athletic Departnent. Since
taking over the position he has delegat-
ed much of his responsibility to other
coaches. ‘Jeff Frank: has been helping
with non—fevenue sports. Women’s
basketball coach Pat Miller is oversee-
ing’ women’s athletics, and «baseball
Coach George Greer has’ taken over
some administrative duties. Frank likes
the new. arr: : “] think it’s a
good situation. Ido all the ground work

Continued on page 15
