A Report on the EPC Open

Meeting

In a brief open meeting Monday af-
ternoon, the Educational Policies Com-
mittee heard a variety of student and
faculty suggestions coricerning the pro-
posed addition of minuses to the grading
scale. The meeting; originally sched-
uled for the Gallery, was held in Love
Auditorium. .

Several professors and students
present for the informal discussion chal-
lenged the wisdom of adding any new
complications to a system that has
worked since the late sixties. In an SGA
survey last week, approximately 450
students said that they do not wish to see
any modifications made.

Many people are concerned that the
finer distinctions between grades creat-
ed by the minuses will worsen “grade-
—grubbing” and anxiety, especially

out, there already exists “a lot of con-
cern over those numbers.” Calling the
plan proposed by the EPC and SGA “a
really bad deal,” Dean of Students Will

‘Terry stated, “I think this if going to in-

crease competition,” and “I am really
very opposed to this.”

Representatives of the EPC and the
SGA spoke briefly in defense of their
proposal. Religion Professor Max E.
Polley emphasized that the faculty’s de-
sire is “simply to make better distinc-
tions” when deciding whether a grade
should be a B plus or an A-, for exam-
ple. SGA Senator Chip Hurley re-
minded everyone that many professors
would feel justified in giving an A- to
borderline work that would otherwise
receive only a B plus.

To the problem of grade anxiety,

tle naive, but I think the greater vari-
ation, the less competition.” He felt that
most students are satisfied with the pres-
ent grading scale mainly “because that’s
the only system they’ve known,” and
that minus grades could seem as natural
after a couple of years as plus grades
seem now.

Further discussion showed that a
few faculty members would prefer to
eliminate plus grades. Assistant Profes-
sors of History Peter Krentz and Robin
Barnes agréed that the present system is
“skewed” because it allows for pluses
but not minuses, and they felt that there
should be “fewer distinctions instead of
more.” They suggest that we “we drop
the pluses.” Several faculty also pointed
out that the SGA’s proposed scale
leaves the same point difference of .5

&

neither help nor hurt a student whose
grades hover near the school average of
3.0.

Alternate suggestions included nu-
merical scales on which professors
would report grades as an average be-
tween zero and 100 or between 0.0 and
4.0 without translating the numbers to
letters at all.

The meeting ended with faculty and
students alike questioning the value of a
bare GPA figure as a goal in education.
The EPC will hold a regular closed
mecting this Monday at 4:00, but at
present there are many more questions
that answers. The members of the com-
mittee welcome opinions and sugges-
tions until some agreement is reached.

among the graduate school bound. Professor of Political Science Louis between aC plus and a B- as now exists

As junior Lee McCormick pointed. | Ortmayer responded, “Maybe I’malit- —_ between aC plus and aB. Thusit would —_ Diana Bohrer "85
Index

Development (Richards) 2.0.00. 2.....Acecceccc ec cecccueceacececeees 7 Canoeing (Allen) ...................cccccce cee eee eec eee eec een eeneeeees 19
Convocation (Resnik) ............:ccccccessecsseeteeseeeeseeeeeeens 1 C. Shaw Smith (Smiley) ...2............0 ccc ceeeeceeeeeeeee eee eee ees 20
Letters oo... eee ccecee ce eeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeesseeeeseseeseeeeaees 2 Baseball (Soud) ...............- ss eeeeeeeeee eee eceneeeteteeeeeeeeeeeees 21
EPC (Bohrer) .......0000.cccccccecscsceceeeeeeeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeesaees 3 Tennis (Ferguson) ...}.........00:::cceceeeeeseeeeeeeeterteeeeeeeeen 22
News Shorts ..............ceccecceeeecnecgeneeeceeeeeeeeeeesdeeeeeneees 4 Calendar ............0.esceeeeeseeeeteeeeeteeesseeeteeeeneeeneneeenaes 24
Reply to Van Beck (Loptson, Barrett, Kiss) .....................5. 5
WDAV Editorial (Alexander) .....................00cccceeceeee eens 6
‘Vereen Bell Awards (KisS) .......0cccccccscessessestestestesteseee 7
Ralegh! (Wilson) ..........0.....ceaseeeeceeeeeneceeeteeeesenseacereeers 8
Weizenbaum (Pafford) wo ‘Viacherpoacodogecdacssocecvistes'ses# pad 9
Films (His@nDise) 2.56 oc eicsa pec ceceeebg Rbkeabstigg deaeaddaacsesat 10
Fine Arts Supplement aa si VGN Wdeo bacon Wi wesc aexivaey cquedak 11-14
Booze Brothers (T pounrtiitl, HAWI) ci cee. 15
Ge eee eh tn ORE: Pets meee ‘16 :
Records (Glance) ce ce sacubs weeteeeyanteecessanteneteeesenseeeens 17 ; :
Boho (Hartman) Pei oe ot ses a asia Sisateaiansyiainis 18 4

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 April 1982.

