ee"

paper
Co

Dr. ‘Melinda Lesher will be leaving the Davidson
community following this accademic year after having
taught art fistory here for three years. This article, the
last installment in a series on Davidson’s art profes-
sors, is rather timely because her departure is. part of
the annual academic rearrangement of the college, but
I also feel it will be the departure of a personality very
distinctive to many people, especially Humes buffs or
those who frequent Cunningham Fine Arts and Oak
Row. I have seen her walking in her dark cape and

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

* fessional reasons.”

boots; I have known that she goes to Italy in the sum-

mers'and that she specializes in Italian Renaissance art;
and I have had this impression that her-world of com-
fortable movement is very large, yet incongruously
centered at a small college in the North Carolina pied-
mont. In this respect she may be no different from

“many professors here, but I wondered: Why Davidso-

n?—and then a larger question: Why art?

My scepticism crept into the interview—questions
seem to emanate from preconceptions. I asked if she
would leave Davidson with any bitterness.

“I suppose your question suggests that | feel I’ve
been in exile for three years,” she. said, “and I really
don’t feel that...I came to Davidson fully hoping, fully
expecting, that this could be the rest of my life in some

"ways; It wasn’t just a job; it was a job I wanted.

_ “I started studying art because I liked research—I
loved books, and I loved sitting in the library doing re-

Some Thoughts with Melinda Lesher

She said that she will be leaving Davidson for “pro-
Those reasons center around her
desire to key in on her research. Dr. Lesher says she

has “always been interested in studying—from the .
time I:learned how to read I’ve been interested... love

being a student. That’s one of the reasons I want to go
back and continue my research.”
" Shé added ‘that being away from the Northeast has
allowed her to recognize some things she had taken for
art museums and research facilities, and
the chance to hear art lectures. The basic logistical
problem, however, séemed to be the inavailability of
time. The Davidson teaching system and philosophy
isn’t made to accomodate the time she'needs.

“| feally needl a large block of time...My mind is not
flexible enough to begin at 10 o'clock in’ the eve-

ning...switching from Humanities to deal with the

really esoteric things I work on..
It is those esoteric interests of Dr. Lesher’ s that will
occupy her time while she is in Connecticut during the

‘coming year. She has had an article tentatively. accept-

ed by a j in London on the decoration of the

‘Chapel. of the” Priors in the Town Hall. of Florence, .

Italy. In addition she intends to finish an article on the

‘dedication of that particular chapel to Saint Bernard of

Clairvaux, and the relation of Bernard to the public of
Florence.

Recently Dr. Lesher arranged a show for the Mint
Museum in Charlotte entitled “Italian Renaissance
Paintings from Southern Museums” which ran from
October 18, 1981 to January 3, 1982. She encountered
some problems—the show had to be arranged in six
months and many museums refused to loan painting-
s—and although she said that it “ended 'up being a tre-
mendous compromise in a lot of ways,”
that she loved the experience.

“One of the reasons I took it was an opportunity to
not just work with museum directors but to do research

-, for them, the sorts of things I like doing. This was an

opportunity to do the entire thing—to think about what
a show would look like and then arrange objects. ..and
also an opportunity to be more of a full-time art histori-
an.” a

Indeed, art history is not only something that Dr.
Lesher enjoys. We talked about whether her work
tends to be her life, and she said that it does. I have the
impression that she does not feel that such a discipline
alienates some great part of herself, or forces some sep-
aration in her life.

“Art history I found very challenging as an academic
study...but art history also provided me an opportunity
to study things that I think are absolutely incredible-

—works of art to me are mysteries in many ways. . .The

search. It is a very private, hermetic activity...When I .

started teaching I asked myself how does one balancce

. the two things. eee ee vont wateio

Bis, canaiainmetimeriacod

‘Twas in college 1 wrote a number of short
ioe ricerca samummyas coached oo

: thought that someone uses not only his mind to create °

; but also his hands is quite incredible. When

she also said

stories and ©

hands because I used the typewriter, but still i it’ $ not the
same as applying paint to canvas or chipping at a piece
of marble.

“They are works that produce awe in me anid that’s
why I like studying them because that awe continues-
—it’s something I haven’t gotten over. I was afraid
when I went to graduate school that I would be trained
out of that—that I would learn visual analysis so tho-
roughly that I would never be able to look at anything
and say, ‘Wow, is that beautiful’—and fortunately I
don’t think I have been trained out of that gut response
to-a piece of art that is very meaningful.”

As in other parts of the interview, at this juncture I
asked her if she felt any frustration—whether the me-
ticulous analysis of a finished piece of art without
knowing the mental and emotional processes of the art-
ist ever seemed like a frustrating, trivial task.

She answered:

“That's very difficult, byt it also makes life interes-
ting—doesn’t it?—that-we can interpret things in dif-
ferent ways—bring in different things—and it’s not all
clear-cut and black-and-white and like a geometric for-
mula. That lack of precision is one. of the thingss and

‘that I love about art.

You can respond very personally to it, and there are all
kinds of grey areas: that’s one of the things I like about
Humanities...I try to teach students that one has a
right, if you use your own brain, to talk about it, if
you’re careful about it. I do a different kind of art histo-
ry than some—I look at documents and some more spe-
cific things—but there is still a great deal of interpreta-
tion that must be done, and that is a creative process of
one’s own, though perhaps not as much as making art.
An artisfis really successful when he conveys his feel-

- ings. That’s what art is on one level, a sort of personal

statement and it should be somewhat clear; the lan-
guage should be used in some way, otherwise the crea-
tion may fail. ..I feel the same way when I write a short

. $tory or try to answer questions for an interview; it’s

very difficult to say just what you want to say.”

To find the language, Dr. Lesher has had to become
familiar with the repositories of information, but more
importantly she has had to define the problems which
interest her.

“One of the subjects I have been working on is: Why
does one subject become popular? How—when ‘you
start gathering the images—can you determine 4 patt-

ern? A time pattern—or in my case even a geographical
m. ”

When I asked her what problems needed solutions,
she said, “I don’t know that they need solutions; it’s
just that I want to find the solutions.” Toward the end
of the interview Dr. Lesher concluded:

“{t’s all so amazingly personal; no one really cares
—pérhaps other art historians: It’s personal satisfac-
tion. Fe SSE ES aE”

— Tom Pafford

~ DAVIDSONIAN./ Friday 29 January 1982
rely 7 * > i re Se ¢ er rs ee hae ery 8 4; j ae aa 5 - .
