up in the success of the season as well as
in many other ways, such as the enthusi-
asm, high morale, and unity expressed
both on. and off the court. Kenny Wil-
son’s comment that “we all love each
other” says more than any set of
numbers or statistics could ever reveal.

On behalf of the Davidson College
student body, I would like to congratu-
late you on such a successful first year
here at Davidson. We appreciate your
concern for the players both as athletes
and students. Your cat paw system of
encouraging individual success, both on
the court and in the classroom, is exem-
plary of this concern. In wishing you
continued success, I hope you are aware
of the support of the student body, sup-
port which will continue to-grow with
your program.

Once again thanks and congratula-
tions.

Sincerely yours,
Chip Legerton
President, SGA

= Davidsonian welcomes letters .

Getting Underway

from our readers. We try to print all let-
ters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines: ;

[1] We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7.pm.

and include the author’s phone number

wart Cauley.

[4] We reserve the right not to print
that (a) function as advertise-.
ments; (b) contain-innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a vie-

letters that we Print.

Farrell New Athletic Director

The College Board of Trustees ap-
pointed Head Football Coach Ed Farrell
to the post of athletic director at their
regular meeting over break, The Trus-
tees appointed Farrell onthe recommen-
dation of College President Sam
Spencer. There was no search for other

. candidates, aside from an abortive

search last summer. |

Farrell has been acting athletic di-
rector Since July 2, 1981. Spencer ap-
pointed Farrell to replace Eugene
Bingham, who resigned for “health rea-
sons.”

Spencer decided not to conduct
another search becuse he had already
decided that Farrell was doing a good
job, and that he would probably get the
job. “It would have been dishonest . . . a
farce” to conduct another search,
Spencer said.

Spencer said the athletic department

above all, “needs stability and good
management,‘ and he feels that Farrell
will provide it. He said that Farrell’s
months as acting athletic director served
as a “test period,” and that Farrell “took
hold and ran the department well. ”

Farrell will retain his coaching posi-
tion in addition to serving as overall at-
hletic director. Spencer foresees no con-
flicts between Farrell’s dual positions of
athletic director and football coach.
“Coach Farrell clearly understands that
the two jobs afe separate. . .We had a
frank discussion and he knows that mi-
nor sports are not to be slight

Farrell says that he will in no way
give preference to the football program
as athletic director. He said that he must
follow the policies set by the Trustees-
,who are committed to as wide an athlet-
ic program as possible. He points out,
however, that they are also committed

to success in the football and basketball

Farrell points to his experience in

many sports to demonstrate his concern

for “non-révenue sports,” a term he
prefers to ‘minor sports.” “I have a
much broader background than just the
football that the people at Davidson
know,” he said. He said that much of his
“strongest support in getting the job
came from the non-revenue sports
coaches.”

He has coached baseball, track,
wrestling, and swimming, as well as
football. He played on varsity baseball,

~ basketball, football, swimming, and la-

crosse teams in high school and college.

Like most administrative positions,
the length of Farrell’s appointment is
“indefinite,” which virtually means per-
manent.

by Jeff Mann ‘84

[2] We require that letters be neatly
" [3] We require that letters be signed
address. If you have a compelling.

reason for us to withhold your name, ex- ;
lain your situation to the editor, Ste-.

int very similar to that expressed in |

The Davidsonian dogs not in any’
| way endorse the opinions expressed in

New Eating House

The new all-girls eating house,

‘which Pres. Spencer approved on Feb.

5, has chosen the name of Warner Hall
after the most recent Director of the
Trustees. Hall has served as senior min-
ister at Covenant Presbyterian Church
in Charlotte and is very active in the
College and the Presbyterian Church,
according to house member Freshman
Laura Taft.

The girls also elected officers for the
Spring term. They are Pres., Connie
Kyle; Vice President, Mary Tabb;
Tres., Anne Rollins; Ass. Tres., Martha
Nelson; Sec. Beth Mack; and co-social
chairmen Susan Kann and Alva Moore.

» The members of Warner Hall have
been meeting every week in order to
work ‘out the details for opening the’
house in the fall, said sophmore Anne
Rollins, She added that every moniberi is
on at least one. committee.

The. house. will be. located in the
former Bailey House between F&M and

ETC. Rollins said this House has the

most equipment left over from last year.
College Business Manager Bob Currie
said that kitchen equipment and dining
room furniture left from ARA-Slater is
all-ready in the house, and that the col-
lege will provide the house with lounge
furniture over the summer.

‘ The house is also planning some so-

‘cial functions for this spring. Although

Rollins admitted that they are rather li-
mited because they do not have a house,
they plan to have some mixers with the
fraternities and any other functions they
can manage without a house.

The College requires that the new

house meet certain requirements set by

Dean of Students Will Terry before op-

- ening. It'must have 70 women commit-

ted toa two year full-board contract and
each.of the members.must pay’ $25 by
May | “in order to acquire working cap-
ital,” according to. an announcement

_ from Dean Terry ..Thus far 52 freshmen
- women and/16 upperclass women have

chosen to eat at Warner Hall next year.

Dean Terry also requires that the
house operate in the black and its
members are responsible for any deficit.
It must pay at least minimum wage to its
employees and provide them with ade-
quate benefits and compensations. The
house must also agree to “follow the
guidelines of Patterson Court regarding
social function,” the announcement
from Terry said.

- Spencer has yet to make a decision
concerning the other house, which the
Council on Campus and Religious Life
recommended be given to the Black
Student Coalition (BSC).

BSC President André Kennebrew
said that BSC members were a little sur-

prised because they “really expectéd to

get it [the house].” He said they would
like to receive Dr. Spencer’s decision as

- soon as possible in order to budget‘and

make plans. ““We’re still hopeful. ..We
feel. we sill still get the house. ”

by Lucy Everett ‘85
and Jeff Holland ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19. March 1982 -
