What’s All the Frat About?

Davidson Professors’ Ideas on F raternity Life

Fraternities are somewhat like stocks; their value.

fluctuates over time, they: merge, split, and‘sometimes
even go bankrupt. To gne who is unconcerned, the
stock market. has. ostensibly very little impact on

day—to—day life. Yet, indirectly we all feel the ef-.

fects. The Davidson fraternity system ‘is not totally
unique, but itis a different brand than the type found at
the typical generic State U.

What role do fraternities: ply on campus? What in-
terests and concerns do they generate? Do fraternities
animate or exascerbate the already sagging social si-
tuation? Is a true sense of fraternity promoted by the 4

on—campus and 2 off—campus fraternities? These are.

not the types of questions which loom ominously over
our collegiate careers like the placid but ponderous fa-
ces of the chambermaids. But, in recognition of certain
sentiments toward changes in the system, they might
. prove as. springboards toward a more rounded aware-
_ness of life at Davidson.

Many: students and’ professors and administrative
personnel:do-not especially care about the past history =
of Davidson: fraternities: I have. ‘chosen (perhaps :er- *
roneously) tointerview professors in order to'gauge the’
perceptions and/or: misconceptions: of Davidson ‘frat’

life. found, generally, most professors very willin
talk, although some were hesitai.: to commit the
selves wholly to an opinion. ‘Many spoke out ‘with con-
viction, Many were quite non—commital. I expected
both reactions.

T shall preserve t the anoiiysnity of the 13 professors I
spoke with. nite
indication of any consensus of opinion whatsoever, but

rather simply as a collage of.interviews. The following.

smattering of opinions is simply an attempt to raise the
student’s consciousness as the to professors! con-
sciousness of: the situation, «

What chang have you-observed in the David-
son system? How is the Davidson fraternity situa-
tion different from other schools at which you have
taught or eoged?,

The major change I've seen right now is an awak-
ening of interest in fraternities. I’m not sure that’s a
good. thing or.not. It might mean a retum to an exclu-
sive, clubby. type of a
certain place in'the ‘social scheme -

T haven’t seen ‘much change'since I’ve come here: I
can’t say thatit appears that they’re becoming more ac-

tive or substantial, or having that much more dramatic:

a profile. .

Self—selection is the obvious change that we all
know about.

Self-selection is, of course, a different phenomen-
on. Self—selection breaks down much of the political
aspects such as rushing. The fraternities I had contact
with were the very old fashioned ones from back in the
19th century. Much of it was kind of barbaric, but pro-

. vided a sense of soliganty f for having survived such
horrors.

...Self—selection.

. the fact that all students should have the option to

. select any house they want. The difference is how they

select members. I’ve been a little concerned lately
about a movement back to primary selection.

this riot asa statistically significant

which does have a a

I was a.student at a small college with fraternities

but no sororities much like Davidson, and I think fra-

-temities play much the same role—they provide a’so-

cial life. But they also provide elitism and segregation-
..but I don’t think its as bad as what I’ve seen at big

schools where the campus is Polarinod'™S on nthe Belo

dimension.

Well, I guess the system’s a little € more volatile
now. |

- Treally wouldn’t understand why it wouldn't t..

J don’t know.

You’ re talking brotherhood i in a co—ed i institution.

also have.to think of the college as as 4 community: in-

, —an—of itself,

I don’t see any evidence of that.. Fraternization? I.

think there’ s some of that.

I think it promotes the opposite. True brotherhood
comes from welcoming all who want to join.. -But I
don’t think it’s the nature of-man to be like that.

wae
or do you care?

I’m not aware.

I don’t follow. it that much. The most contact that I
have is with IMAC:

Will Rogers once said, “All I know is what f rail in
the papers.” All I know is what I read i in the Davidson-

dan.

Very little. I get invited to some fraternity parties-
—they seem to me all alike. By and large it doesn’t
touch me. The issue iri the abstract is one I spend Tittle
time thinking about.

» I’m sometimes concemed when the parties start on

: Tuesday night. ~-

In those situations where what goes on in  fraterni-
ties affects the life-situation. of the’student and: their

Brig Sra ability 10 participate i in academics ‘then it certainly: is
Doc the Davdon att seem promo oe:
7 true fraternity or something else?’ ae

important. «
Some fraternity activities have inhi me in
ways I don’t like—road tripping. When students come

~ and ask for a special dispensation from papers being

due because of a road trip I Object because theirs i is nota

./-. system which I participate in and haven't bought into.
oo Most of the time, however, T don’ t care because that’ 8
"i . the student’s life.

Your talking about several different communities—we

"Doyo ete ented fr src st Darn?

"Well, I think it would stand to be the same a8. with
fraternities. It may. be that women students need to

have asocial group within which they can discover and
hold close, intimate relationships ... . but for that rea-
son, I guess, we have: female on ‘clubs.

No. It visu tend to segment the. ston more. I’m
not a particularly strong supporter of fraternities but

- they are here and have ‘been a feature in the past.

Absolutely not.

I would prefer it if people would see their lives/and

values in such a way thast neither frats nor sororities

‘would be a part of that picture.

_, Ireally.see no, absolute need for either...
Corttiamedon page 12

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982 |

11
