“Beach Ball”

Walk into any athletic. department
and ask the director (the grave.man be-
hind the massive desk) what it takes to
field'a winning team in college sports
today and he’ll have the answer quicker
than Greek’s knee goes up on a save. He
will undoubtedly reply “Money.” Mo-

ney, money, money,. the sure. way to -

win. Buy players, buy coaches. Hell,
buy everything! The college sports
scene is truly capitalistic with:one un-
recognized exception: the Davidson
soccer team. ©

In 1977 the team was 0-16. This

year Charlie Slagle piloted the team to 2

13-9 overall record with'a 6-2 Southern
Conference record good enough for se-
cond place. But here’s the. amazing. -

thing: The team did all this with nary a’

scholarship nor a real increase in, the
budget. Clearly the team wins on heart
and sheer love for the game, not super-
ior talent.

Much. of the credit goes. to. second

year coach Charlie Slagle. Don’t think
we’re the only ones noticing all this,
either:. Slagle was chosen Southern
Conference Coach of the Year. His en-

Greiner, Tordanou,and Roberts. Nail Down AlkConference Honors

thusiasm forthe team greatly influenced
its performance. .

Coaching: glone. does..not produce
winning teams, however. The 1981, edi-
tion-of Wildcat. soccer was laden with

. talent in: several key areas; especially
defense.’ Senior goalkeeper _ Mike
“Greek” lordanou earned first team Alll-

Conference honors for his steady play.i in
the» cage, and senior. sweeper Terry
Greiner’ made the second’ team. Dan
Blood and Brian Hamilton played stel-
lar defense as well, but the all-SC voters
neglected them. .

On offense sophomore Chris Ro-~
berts was again the crucial.cog in the
Davidson machine as he tallied 10 goals

‘and.7 assists for first team honors, Se-
nior Chuck Price and sophomore Peter
Burr were offensive keys as well.

The team has an even.tougher sche-
dule next season, with several top teams
coming to Davidson. The Wildcats will
have SC power Appalachian State in
their sights, and if they gun down the
Apps, they’ll be looking for first place.

by Steve Soud ’84 and Elmo "82

ia 1 Roulette and Da’ , idson z
~ No Second Shots for the Cats

and Three Resulting Losses

Basketball

On ‘the: surface, Russian Roulette

.. doesn’ thave a whole lot to'do with bas-
ketball, but if. you dig a little deeper, a

slight resemablance can be seen. Each is

"agame of shots, and in each case, the
“>More often you “pult the trigger,” the

greater your chances of scoring.

That’s what Davidson basketball -

came down to this week--second shots.
When they had them, they couldn’t con-
vert. But most of the time they didn’t,
and the lack of second shots was actu-
ally suicide. .

- Against‘ Marshall, it-was a last-se-
cond second ‘shot that killed the Cats.
After battling back from an 11-point
first half deficit'to close the gap to four
at the half, Davidson came out ready to

go. Coach Hussey had told junior guard
- John Carroll: to ‘add a. little: scoring

punch, and he did as he sparked the Cats

- to a comeback early on in the second

half. Cliff Tribus adjusted his bomb-
sight and couldn’t seem to miss, so Da-
vidson jumped its lead to seven.

The turning point came when Cha-
tles Jones blocked a Jamie Hall shot.
The Herd gradually sliced basket after
basket off the lead, and with O:14 left

~ Kenny Wilson stood at the line with two
‘foul shots in‘his immediate future. He
had to make both to tie.

The pressure wasn’t too much for
KW, ‘though, ‘as ‘he: pegged both to tie
the game at 65. Marshall inbounded

* » ‘successfully, dribbled the clock down,
- .and-with about::05. left took the shot.

IN / Ffiday 15 January 1982

The ball fell. short, but second shots
came bck to haunt as someone missed
their block out and a Cow (F figure the
singular of Herd is a Cow) scored the ea-
sy basket for the gamewinner.

* The- Cats hosted East. Tennessee
Saturday night, but not only did a scar-
city of second shots kill them, but a lot .
of second-rate shots did their share. The
Cats finished a miserable shooting per-

formance at only 39.4%.

- Blocking out was jonexistent, as
the Bucs dominated the boards. The
Cats sparked every once in a while, but

“much like an engine with afew dead:
plugs, they couldn’t sustain. a. come-
“back. The Bucs took’ the game with

points to spare, 69-59.

‘ Monday night the Cats: played an ex-
tremely well-prepared UT-Chattanooga
team. The Mocs are defending champs,
and their off to a good defense with no
Conference losses,

The Cats didn’t execute. well, and
for the. most part the Moccasins knew
where Dasvidson playets: were going.
The Mocs opened a sizable lead at the
half, and although Davidson threatened
early inthe second half, an 18-4 ae
spurt killed Wildcat “hopes. :
cleaned up with a 71-55 win.

. Tomorrow the team plays the Fight-:
ing Irish in South Bend.:The Irish are
horrendous'this year, but tomorrow’s is
their first home game in quite a while,
and they’re just'looking for someone to
trounce. It should -be a close ‘game.

fu >
