Taxes, Like Death, Unavoidable

While the fool defends all tax legislation the wise
person defends taxation in principle. We experience
daily the abuses of oustax-dollar—everyone has heard
the stories of waste. Nonetheless, we’ must recognize
taxation as fair.

As you see, I disagree with Diane Odom’s conclu-
sion that taxés aré unjust. She claims that each person
has a fundamental right to life. And, logically follow-
ing this right is the right to sustain and promote one’s
life. Futhermore, “sustaining one’s life necessarily re-
quires material goods” for no person can live without
nutriment and shelter. Although these rights could be
further justification we will proceed.

Now, imagine someone living in England in the
1830’s. Imagine also that that person belongs to a poor
family. Upon getting married this person finds that her

husband cannot find work except occasionally in‘a fac-.

tory. To support the family all are required to. work.
However, they soon find that the children begin to die
of starvation and disease against which they ave: no
strength.

What are the rights and obligations involved i in this
situation? Supposedly the husband, as well as the rest

of the family, have rights to life and the sustaining of
that life. What can be said of an economic system that
enables one person to become rich, and stay rich, while
denying another even the opportunity to sustain her
life?

The question becomes: what are the. rights of,.and
the subsequent obligations t to, and’ individual who, by

the nature of the economic system in which she partici-

pates, is denied the opportunity to sustain that life to
which she has a right? Clearly, someone must compen-
sate for the flawed: nature of the economic system

which violates this individual’s rights.
‘Pwo. sources..of compensation are at hand: 1) the »

charitable individual and 2) those individuals who have

, gained: from the economic system above and beyond
that level necessary for sustenance of life; i.e. “‘proper-

ty-in-excess.” Inthe past the former: solution. has
proved inadequate (much to our chagrin). Thus we turn
to the alternaive: taxes.

Note that in the alternative the rights of individuals .

conflict. The right of the disadvantaged individual to
sustain her life versus the right of the‘economically ad-

vantaged individual to property-in-excess. Since the

right to sustain one’s life is prior to the right to one’s
property-in-excess then one is justified in taking from
the advantaged person and givingto the disadvan-
taged.

This conclusion follows because:

1) One must,.be. able to sustain one’s life: before one
can obtain property in excess: “Thus the: tight to the op-
portunity to sustain one’s life takes precedence over the
right to property-in-excess.

2) The individual with property-in-excess gained
that property in an economy in which both the advan-
taged.and disadvantaged are essential! The cheap labor
due to the excess of workers allows the advantaged per-

son a greater profit margin. Thus, what is fair but that

the disadvantaged share in the wealth they help pro-
duce?

‘The fool might use this argument to justify-all tax .
legislation. At most it means to defend the fairness of
taxes in general. The quantitative dimension of taxes i is
a much more ambiguous affair.

D. Armistead

February 11, 1982.

1 she is the epitominzed standard of her
term out of a‘possible four. She was a c

,
A
WN :
SSy'-\ ASE ENS

WAS)
— wy

a
SG

hate Pa

Blue Bell, Inc., one of the world’s largest

. apparel. manufacturers, has immediate.

“openings in the Southeast and Southwest for

Industrial Engineering and Manufacturing |

‘management trainees. Here’s a chance to
train and advance’ in a growing Fortune 500
company. Our plants produce such well-
known brands as Wrangler, Jantzen,
Sedgefield and Red Kap.

The ideal candidates will have an undergrad-
‘uate degree and be open to relocation. Six or

more hours of physics and/or chemistry are 1

preferred, but not required.

For Interview Appointment or More

Information, Please Contact Your Placement
. Office Today.

‘BLUE BELL, INC. |

An Equal Opportunity Employer

Continued from page 20
But it tums out she’s leading a double life: Atchurch

She is president-of her youth group, elected te fifth

te,

camp. She heais ‘up many other church activities. Ifa
littlé kid gets in trouble, her mother is likely o'phaatise
the child, “Why ¢an’t you be like her.”
But at home she is a heretic. mere!
The next day talk turned toward Apostotic vidivs
other denominations: Cathoics, it seems, wcritig Se
tan. Where did she get that idea’ A comic book written
‘by a man named John Todd. ny ne omen
“Does he document his proof?”
“I don't thifk he ever documents his proof.”
Just like that, ‘a whiole ‘denomination unquestionably

~ reads a comic book for God’s sake and decides Catho-

lics worship the-devil! And no one cared to ask'4 sirigle
question. At least my lady frierid though of some ques-
tions, even if she didn’t dare ask.

But that was a lot of her problem. She had consi-
dered dropping out of church but was afraid of the so-
cial pressure:-It’s amazing how much the societal con-
ventions of a small group of people who met once a

week can smother, the Senahts of another.:.She’s

mal convictions.

| accept such ridiculous
tenets? Maybe its true, but somehow I doubt it. It
seems to me would rather be told what to do
than to think for themselves. Don’t watch too much,
television, don’t go to the movies, don’t listen to the ra-
dio, and your camel will fit through the eye of the nee-
dle. It’s a whole lot easier that way.

But when someone finally does decide to think for
himself, he’s terrified of excommunication. My lady
friend said at one f ‘one of the most pity evoking
statements I’ve ever heard. ‘Tm liberal but I’m not al-
lowed tobe.”

You see, Apostolicism is in effect, the Old Right. Is
this is whet Oo ee

oy Sine poud

DAVIDSONIAN,/ Friday 29.danuary 1982

21
