Davidson Landing Under Way

First-phase construction begun

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

The North Mecklenburg Develop-
ment Company began construction last
month on three model homes for their
35-acre Spinnaker Core residential
community development. Located
north of Griffith Road and just east of I-
77 at the Davidson interchange, Spin-
naker Cove is the first part of the eventu-
al development of all four quadrants
around that interchange by the North

Mecklenburg Development Co., ac- ’

cording to Ron Kennerly, sales manager
for the development.

The company has an option to buy the

three remaining quadrants from the
Lake Norman Company, which owns
much of the area, and they have tenta-
tive plans for all the quadrants. The plan
collectively will be called Davidson
Landing, Kennerly said.

Thus far, however, the company has
the go ahead from the Davidson plan-
ning board only for the building of 39
single family “cluster” homes, which
feature a blind wall which allows the
homes to be built close together without
sacrificing privacy. The homes will be
priced between $90,000 and $120,000.

An added feature of the community is
its location on the lake. Many of the
homes will be on the lake or have lake
views. The community will eventually
have facilities for small boat docking, -a
swimming pool, tennis courts and a ca-
bana.

‘The two and three bedroom homes
feature sunken living rooms, masonry
fireplaces, vaulted ceilings, wood decks
and patios. The exteriors will be of
stained wood siding.

The model homes should be complet-
ed by the end of November, Kennerly
said, and construction will begin on the
individual units on a pre-sold basis.
Kennerly said he hopes to have sold all
the units within a year and a half. Dep-
osits have already been received on a
number of homes.

In terms of future plans for the area,
Kennerly said that the North Mecklen-
burg Development Company plans to
present a concrete proposal for the
southeast quadrant behind the Elox
plant (which is zoned industrial) late in
November. They are currently negotiat-
ing with a company that wants to. locate
its national headquarters there and the

North Mecklenburg company is work-
ing on a plan for an office/condominium
complex. Kennerly noted that this pro-
ject may require a special use permit.
Thus far the company has only gotten
permission from the town of Davidson
for a road in the southeast quadrant. Part
of the northeast quadrant near the inter-
state next to Spinnaker Cove is also
zoned commercial but Davidson Land-
ing apparently has no plans for commer-
cial development there. The two quad-
rants on the west side of I-77 are both

‘zoned residential (see map).

“We're just getting organized now,”
Kennerly said. “Making sure we’ve
done our homework and touched bases

with all the govermental authorities in
Davidson. All this development will
take place over a period of time.”

Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac

said that when the proposal for Spinnak-
er Cove development before the town
planning board, some citizens voiced
their concern about the amount and na-
ture of the development.

“There was a general comment that
there is a lot development potential in
the quadrangle area when the proposal
came up about a year and a half ago,”
MacCormac said. “A number of citi-
zens expressed concern, but I wouldn’t
really call it opposition.”

She said that she feels that the David-
son community as a whole supports a
gradual and moderate growth of the
town. She said most people recognize
the necessity of growth, but they are al-
so concerned with protecting David-
son’s small community atmosphere and
quality.

MacCormac the growth of Davidson
as part of a general growth in what is
known as the southern “Sun Belt,”
which runs all along I-85 from Virginia
to Greenville. She said that as far as the
College is concerned the faculty at Da-
vidson hasn’t grown much in recent
years, and the College has managed to

juggle their houses and others in David-
son to find places for its faculty. She

does not expect the Davidson Landing
Project will have much effect in that re-
spect.

“We are located in a growth area,” she
said. “This development is chiefly an
area phenomenon, not really any reflec-
tion of the College’s needs.”

—Quality clothing for men and women

Class_of ‘’86—a reminder to use

your “Campus Welcome” coupon.

101 N. Main St.

Davidson

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler
News Editor: David Resnik
Features Editor: Tom Pafford
Sports Editor: Steve Soud
Production Editor: Ann Meador
Photography Editor: Anderson Scott
’ Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Calendar Editor: lvy Goodman
Business Manager: Lentz Ivey
Advertising Managers: Jeff Danese
Frank Hague
Graphics: Scot Myers
Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss

Staff:.Lindsay Biddle

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the schoo!
yeer by the students of Davidson College. Address cor-
reepondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davideon, NC
28036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 end 149. Offices lo-
cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscrip.
tions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on
request. Second class postage no. USPS 149.300 1

Paulette Kurani

Christi Baggett Anne Lambert

Bill Barnett John Lyday
Neil Cooksey Ginna McGee -
Mark Elmore Laura McGee

Duncan V. Fraser Elodie McMillan

Kara Gilmore Matt Morris
Jonathan Glance Peggy Pierotti
Jennifer Gotto John Ruppenthal
Thurston Hatcher Garry Sullivan
Rob Hollenbeck Tom Schilling
Scott Huie John Verdi

Joe Jaworski Andrew Wilson

