Tennis Hits Stride

The Wildcat tennis team finished the
non-conference portion of its season
Wednesday, losing 8-1 to N.C. State.
The ’cats are 9-7 on the year, and Coach
Jeff Frank feels his team is beginning to
come. around for the conference
matehies. \

“I shir we're ¢ playing better now than’
we ve gee been at any other time this sea-
* said Frank. “We’ve had some

probes, the most important being in- -

juries and youth. We had some key in-
juries early on and that hurt us. We’re
also a very young team. We have one

senior, two juniors, a sophomore, and
two freshmaen in the top six. These
freshmen have to get adjusted to college
tennis. The competition is better and the
schedule is rougher.”

Doubles play was another area of con-
cern cited by Frank. “Last year, we had
three seniors in doubles, and they all
had excellent serve-volley games. This
year, we have some players who are just
as good singles players, but not good in
the serve-volley. We haven’t been able
to get any real consistency, and we’re
still looking for the right cémbina-
tions.”

Sophomore Mark Nottingham, pres-
ently. playing at No. | agreed with
Frank’s assessment. “I know that Nev-
ins Todd and I played no. 2 doubles last
year and I thought we were a very good
second doubles. This year, I can’t say
that we’ve been anything above medio-
cre.”

In singles play, there has been an in-
tense compeition for the No. | spot.
Freshman Sedge Grey played at No. |
for the first. part of the season. “Sedge
was our No. |, and I felt comfortable
with him there,” said Frank. “He won

our round-robin tournament in Florida
rather handily. We had another series of
challenge matches this past weekend,
and so now he’s playing no. 1. It may be
to our advantage to have either Mark or
Nevins at No. 1. Since they’ve seen the
guy they'll be playing, and.,remember
them from last year. I feel’ good. about
our singles situation, and our doubles
are coming around. Overall for this part
of the season, everything looks good ”

Scott Beaver ’84

\ 4

Tracksters Tune for Relays

With Lynchburg, Voorhees

Many people consider the mile relay
to be the most exciting event in the track
and field program. It combines the
speed of the shorter races, the drawn-
out excitement of a good distance race,
and the depth and teamwork a team’
needs to be truly successful. Coming as
it does at the end of the meet schedule,
the mile relay also decides many meets,
from local dual-meet rivalries to nation-
al championships. It is also an event in
which Davidson’s track teams have not
fared well of late. Last Saturday’s meet
with Lynchburg and Voorhees Colleges
lived up to all these statements about
this most exciting of events with one ex-
ception: a Davidson team used the relay
to wrap up a commendable and victor-
ious afternoon of competition.

Davidson’s yound women’s track
program has shown its strength and
character in two successive outings thus
far. An indication of their strength came
in the second event opf the day Satur-
day, when Tamara Foremen, Marian
Hill and Elizabeth employed the simple
expedient of running away from their
competitors in the 1500m run to finish
first, second, and third in that event.
Many sterling performances followed.
Laura Hills destroyed the field in the
400m run, finishing 3 seconds ahead of

her nearest rival. Mike Frankhouser
won both the high jump and the discus
by impressive margins. Jean Webb and
Melissa Page ran sparkling second laps
in the 800m run to take first and second.
Tamara Foreman ran a gutsy race in the
400 meter intermediate hurdles (a race
she had run only three times before) to

win. Hill, Hargrove and Susan Dresser -

finished the 3000m run in that order.
The only events in which the women

had neither a first-place finisher nor sev-

eral scorers were the 100m hurdles, the

long jump, the 100m dash, and the shot —

put: this out of a total of 15 events.

The men, in contrast, had an uneven
afternoon. Foreshadowing ‘a difficult
meet was the injury of high jumper Jeff
Carter, who turned his ankle. the night
before the meet and was forced to watch
an event he could have easily won. The
men started off rough with bad passes

- and 2 third place finish in the 440 relay.

The uneven nature of the meet was
immediately in evidence with the next
event. Danny Armistead, in the 3000m
steeplechase, strung out the field early
to disallow anyone from tucking in be-
hind him and shielding themselves from
the wind. Armistead led Joe Sloop and
Lanny Smith to a sweep of the top three
places in that event.

Similarly, Frank Ivey, and Jack

Smith bracketed the scoring positions in |

the 1500m. Other high points include a
sweep of the 5000m by Rony McMa-
nus, Frank Ivey, and Garry Sullivan and
a second, third and forth place showing
in the 800m by John Hoots, Dave Stos-
ur, and James Gelly. Overall, David-
son’s performance can be exemplified
by its workhorse Lance Sisco who won
two events, the high jump and the 110m

“hurdles. In the latter he continued his

consistent series of races by hitting ev-
ery single hurdle with his trailing leg,
but was to finish exhausted and out of
the scoring places in the intermediate
hurdles, a face in which Dan Lindsey
took a surprising third.

Once again, Davidson’s lack of
strength in the spring and weight events
(the exceptions being firsts taken by
Clark Carter in the pole vault and Ray
Sinclair in the shot put) caused them to
come to the final event, the mile relay, a
Close but unfavored second.

Despite inspired legs by Stosur,
Shaw, and Hoots, Brian Brost was fiben
the baton at the beginning of the final
leg of the mile relay many yards in ar-
rcars of Lynchburg. Brim, competing of
a pulled thigh muscle, had managed a
forth pace finish in the 400m run earlier

ns nak DSbned sao.

but had clearly been pulling on only one
leg for the last half of the race. He was
not able to: catch Lynchburg’s. Tinch
Campbell, a half-miler, who finished
sprinting and arm waving. in 3:28.54.

~ Davidson’s, women, however ‘put. tor

gether three strong, legs from;Foreman,
Webb, and Sharon Bryant, and Laura
Hills began her tour. of. the track some
twenty yards in front of Lynéhburg’s
Phebe Phelps,.who had won the 100 and
200m runs earlier, Excitement mounted
when it appeared as if Hills:were being
drawn back. by Phelps down. the, windy,
back straight, but Laura ran a strong last.
150 meters and crossed the. finish line
waxen, pale, and victorious. She was
swept up by her teammates who jcon-
gratulated themselves with a-deserved
victory lap, a fine close to.a day of cold

and windy but exciting contests.-:,

Both the. men’s and: women’s teams
can be seen this weekend at the David-
son Relaysl, one of the largest track,
meetings in the state. Davidson hosts its
Relays Friday and Saturday, beginning
with the women’s and men’s 10,000
meter run of Friday evening at 6:00 and
7:00 and resuming on Saturday morning
at 8:00, The meet wil last until 6:15
Saturday evening.

by Jeff Hamilton

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

29
