DB & SS’s Mailbox |

Since we haven’t written a column in so long, the |

letters have been piling up. So here are a few of the bet-
ter ones:

Dear DB & SS:
We'd like to invite all interested and. disturbed
" members of the Davidson College family to a rally
about one of the most serious problems to face the Col-
lege in years: the laundry. We will start by showing a
45-minute documentary ‘entitled “Clean clothes or

Death.” This will develop the roles the administration —

and faculty have had in the establishment of the laund-
ry and the rise of i

Dirt T. Sheets, a renowned anti-laundry advocate

the Tar Heels to another Final Four appearance. UNC
owes a'lot to Davidson and as a tokerr of our apprecia-

tion, _ [will be at a special Coffee and Cokes this Friday

to answer ary. questions you may have. ‘Also, I will
have several tickets to give away to New Orleans.

Dean Smith
Dear Doughboys:

Do you think it would be possible for you to write
the column when you're supposed to? You are un-

let; Fal; ».doubtedly the: laziest people in the school. And when

populagepptosition sn the sexy
lowing this most entertaining film will be aati by Dr, ti Li eee enue and make’ it tenes than just one

ing the US from Morocco, a country famous for its lack
of laundry. And then after the rally, we will join amass
protest at Davidson Town Hall and then march to Presi-
dent Spencer’s House where we will dump all our dirty ;
clothes on his lawn. More information will be forth-
coming. Also-if you. would like to join. the:

working on making, an effigy of Frances Beaver

contact one of our members.

The Davidson Coalition on the Laundry

Dear DB & SS:

The Slimshafts -

rPEey Ts

ical } Dear Slimshatts:

You can pick your friends and you can pick your
nose. But you can’t wipe your friends on the couch.

The Doughboys

Dear DB & SS:
Please clear up a question I have. Can mentally dis-
Spaces in the

. Pika Faculty Parking Ls Le A lot of us have been wond-

ering.
Jt
Dear Will:

Why did the monkey fall out of the tree? Because
he was dead.

Doughboys

Dear DB:

We just wanted to express our sincere appreciation
to Grover Meetze for the fine job he did in constructing
our new birch patio in back of Watts. It makes the
“Ghetto Life” a whole lot easier to deal with. Once the
new-Jaccuzzi gets built it will really be nice.

Fel ty

Gibby and the rest ‘of the janitors

What does the “W in Samuel W. Outten stand for?

a) Women es: HBS pear ae era a
b) Wimp

c) Wuss

d) All of the above.

By the wig wi dint yo by Rage 0
six-pack. You gid who: this applies ie

member THE Phonathon?_

It was all that Fantastic student effort to help in-
crease its alumni giving. Well, these restau-

~ - fants and:stores supported the Phonathon by
giving: gift Certificates to award as prizes for
each of the two most successful night callers.
Please REMEMBER that they are interested in
Davidson College next time you eat out.

PA PA's Pizza............ Mooresville —
Darryl's esisoebes ‘s.---«Charlotte
Pizza Hut................. Mooresville
Village Store........... ...Davidson
Wester Steer............... Mooresville
Victoria Station............ Charlotte
Open! Kitchen.......... .....Charlotte
Quincy’s..............0 Cornelius
| Gus’s 49F...........:00000 Charlotte
La Strada..............00 Charlotte
JOSH’S.......c0cceceseseeee Charlotte .
Boar's Head...........+.++ Charlotte
Dikadee’s Front Porch.......Charlotte .
vgs Gus’s..................Davidson
tek Ne _ Little Kitchen........ Mooresville

14.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982,
