On Buckley’s S yeech |

Avarice with a human face anc a Brooks
Brothers suit

by John Siman

Bill Buckley is right. The economic well-being of
the entire nation is tied to the success of its businesses.

The flourishing of Corporate America in the 20" cen-.
tury made possible the historically unprecedented rise

in the standard of living of all:classes. Governmental
policies that burden entrepeneurs reduce everyone’s
chances of pulling an Horatio Alger. And to persecute

these entrepeneurs, the productive rich, is both immor-

| endl meaoockeetic.
kis ineaieey, says Backer, sommes mmaing fic

ing the rich with heavy taxation and complex regula-
tion reduces national productivity. We Americans are

biting the hand that feeds us. What we need, Buckley .

argues, is a libertarian government, which. would be
superior to the status quo on both moral grounds (since

it would not behave as a bureauefatic Procrustes, cut- -

ting the rich down to-size) and on utilitarian ‘grounds

- (since the fruits of an unharnessed business combaintaty:

would be a boon to everyone).

The trouble with Bill Buckley’s libertarianism: is ; that
he doesn’t believe it. Not deep down. What Bill Buck-
ley believes in au fond are the natural privileges of
wealth. In his speech Wednesday night he described:

the rich as being not merely pestered by the govern-.

ment but “afflicted” and “harassed.” He described the

“healthiest tax reform” as “relief to thoe at the highest

bracket.” Sure Buckley has a “Benthamite” defense of
such relief, but his loving support of the rich (“‘philo-
plutusianism” i in Buckleyite parlance) i is so deep that it
~ is not contingent upon the likelihood of an-aristocratic

society’s producing the greatest good for the greatest .

‘number.

Unfortunately, given ‘that ‘Aiuerichiad are trained
from elementary school to respect, or at least pay lip-
service to, egalitarian ideals (“We hold these truths to
be self-evident, that all men are created
that bit), one cannot openly espouse the Virtues of plu-
tocracy to:an American audience. Aristocratic govern-
‘ment may be a good idea, but one must be subtle in its
advocacy if he is to get a good hearing. Like a high
school brain, who must conceal his academic supetior-
ity to preserve his popularity, Bill Buckley's must ca-
mouflage his Tory outlook. But does Bill Buckley feel
bitter about this? No sir! He response with vison ial

ecm senicon Tolicy of of burden-

equal,” and:

-

tic wit and noblesse oblige. In return for the lower
classes’ quietly deferring to the aristocracy, as is their
natural obligation anyway, Bill Buckley graciously
presents them with a coherent and elegant libertarian
political philosophy. And defends it Sloquenly to
boat. ©

Eloquently indeed. Bill Buckley was articulate
enough Wednesday night to appeal not only to the few
pedants in the audience who actually give adamn about
political philosophy but also to the madras-clad shop-
keepers who flocked into Love Auditorium from Char-
lotte and their younger counterparts who flocked in
from Patterson Court. These keepers-of-the-loud-plaid
applauded all of Buckley’s most incisive observations
and even gave him-a standing ovation. Of course this
group, having never surpassed functional literacy since
their readings do not extend beyond a daily check of the
financial pages to check the price quotes on their shares
in The American Dream, could net: fully. appreciate

. Buckley’ s subtle cleverness of celebrating philoplutu-
_ Sianism inthe guise of philolibertasianism. So Buckley

kept | them entertained with a few assurances that greed
is okay and a stream of Republican National Commit-
tee-certified jokes that blasted, in succession, the New
York Times, New York City, Democratic machine po-
litics, the progressive income tax, Walter Mondale,
Communist China, television news, and Norman Tho-
mas. Bill Buckley’s rhetorical prowess is so great,
_ however, that one is convinced that given a chance to
speak repeatedly to’the same audience, he would not
need the fluff and could convince every conservative to
the esthetic of adapting a libertarian fagade.
“Buckley” s' speech should not only have challenged

: unreconstructed conservatives but liberals as well. For

even if one felt intuitively uncomfortable with Buck-

ley’s ideology, his arguments were difficult to refute.

Consider the main points he made Wednesday night:
1. It is ironic to regard Reagan’s welfare cuts asreac-

tionary. If a prototypical but prescient American living

in 1970 were to divine the level of 1980 welfare pay-
ments he would consider the expense exorbitant. Yet
when the prototypical 1980s American discovers that

_welfare payments are being rolled back towards 1970s
levels (and not even that low), he considers‘the cut-

backs meanhearted. Buckley is right to debunk the sup-
position that any reduction of status quo levels of wel-
fare payments is necessarily cruel. Whether we should
cut, however, is a very different question.

2.. Any government intervention into the economy is
counter-productive. Government assistance to individ-
uals ineffect pays people not to work, and assistance to

ailing corporations pays for the: production of. things
people don’t want to buy. The consistency of Bill.
Buckley’s libertarianism — he wants to -wean the
Chryslers as well as the welfare mommas from the fed-
eral mammary gland — is impressive. The question is
whether true laissez-faire could actually work in the
20" century.

3. Someone who eams his wealth deserves tokeep i it.
This seems to be what justice:dictates. But Buckley
gave himself away defending this’ point when he com-
pared the plight of the wealthy to that of the Camusian -

‘hero Sisyphus. Does anyone really believe that the

wealthy are taxed down through the brackéts to the

_ floors of Hades, only to drag themselves up with infi-

nite stamina and produce yet another economic mira-
cle?

4. Friedmanesque, “Free to Choose” -type econom-
ics is the way to go. The less the government bothers
the entrepeneurs, the more the economy thrives. This
is a good idea if you’re rich. But what happens to the
poor when the government stops redistributing weath
via progressive taxation and welfare policies? Is chari-
ty a responsibility of a government that claims to be
concerned with the rights and freedoms of all its citi-
zens?

To critique Buckley’s libertarianism one must draw
the distinction between goodness of intention and
rightness of action. One can advocate wrong actions
out of good intent and right actions out ot bad intent. At
his best Buckley does the latter. Buckley’s opposition
to thie “creeping alliance of big government ‘and-big
business,” for example, would make for good public
policy. So might his advocacy of Friedman’s proposal
to reduce the top tax rate to 25%. But when one agrees

_ with Bill Buckley’s libertarian.conclusions, one must

still question his plutocratic premises. A man as intelli-

‘gent as Buckley is a good source of specific ideas. But

a man so infatuated with opulence is a poor source of a
guiding philosophy.

Buckley concluded ‘his speech with some ‘stirring
plaudits to freedom. It is better, he observed, to see
Moussorgsky performed in'the city of big shoulders
than to sit through a performances of a Red Chinese
ballet in Peking or to bée‘a dissenter in Soviet ‘Russia.
You bet it'is. We Americans must “unite to affirm,” he
said, “that man was born to be free and to the end that

‘he should remainso we dedicate ourselves.” [Thunder-

ing applause.], So much for libertarian rhetoric. Now
back to the important task of aiding the rich.

~ John Siman is a senior philosophy major from Char-

~ : r

oo "DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

15
