ut

Opinions_ —____

The Question of Abortion

Hard facts create hard decisions

NNE HOCKETT ’83

We have had a “Right to Lifer” here to speak and a
woman in favor of choice. We’ve debated the issue of
abortion from every conceivable angle. We've battled
with the questions that perhaps no one can answer:
when does the fetus become a life? what are the rights
of the unborn child?

Unfortunately, many conversations about abortion
run themselves into the ground because we are either
too emotional or too bound by beliefs, religious and
otherwise. We are either for or against abortion before
we even enter the discussion; often, we are too com-
mitted to those views to listen to the other side.

- ae

Babies born to young

mothers are 2 to 3 times

more likely to die within

the first year

I hope to be informative in this space. Abortion is
an issue which will concern each of us collectively and
individually. It may affect you or a friend of yours per-
sonally, or more abstractly by means of our tax dollars
and other social expenses. I have worked in aclinic set-
ting with girls eight to sixteen years old who are preg-
nant and intending to keep their babies. These girls rep-
resent only a small percentage of the eee of
girls eight to sixteen that get pregnant. y may not
have wanted to keep their babies but confirmed their
pregnancy too late in their term to have an abortion.
These girls are at the root of my concern over the ques-
tion of abortion.

According to the 1976 Conference on Adolescent
Fertility, “Close to 13 million of the 60 million women
who become mothers in 1975 became parents before
they became adults . . . Early childbearing is increasing
everywhere, is emerging as a serious problem . . . and
has reached alarming levels . . . Adolescent pregnancy
is a Serious threat to the life and health of a young wom-
an. . . whether the birth occurs in or out of marriage.”

This may seem overly dramatic, but the statistics
and findings of the various councils that follow will
prove how serious and far-reaching the problem really
is. The question concerning abortion, then, is what will
happen if abortion is not available?

The problem of teen pregnancy has been compared
to an epidemic. Sexual activity among persons aged
10-19 has increased tremendously over the past twenty
years. With the increase in activity came the increase
of gonorrhea, syphillis, pregnancies, abortion, and
births. Birth rates nationwide have declined for every
age group except the teenage bracket (the word teenage
is used loosely to mean 10-19).

The following statistics illustrate the scope of the

problem. The rate of teenage childbearing in the U. S.
is one of the highest in the world. About ten percent of
all teenagers get pregnant, and six percent give birth
annually. With the declining rate in other age brackets,
teens now account for more births in comparison na-
tionwide. In 1977, in spite of the “availability” of con-
traception and abortion, teens accounted for one in five
children born nationwide. The ratio has not, to my
knowledge, been published for the 1980s, but it is
higher.

Premarital sex has increased 30 percent from 1971-
76 and is still on the rise. An estimated 11 million U.S.
teenagers were sexually active in 1976. Each year,
more than one million fifteen-to-nineteen year olds get
pregnant and over 30,000 younager than 15 get preg-
nant annually.

The average age of intercourse is dropping, but the
use of contraception is increasing. Almost twice as
many teenagers are now using contraception as com-
pared to a 1976 study. Yet, 40 percent use nothing the
first several times. About 75 percent of those continue
to have unprotected intercourse for the entire first year.
As a result, pregnancy rates are obviously higher, and
so are the rates for venereal disease.

Most sexually active teenagers want sex, but they
don’t want the baby. An estimated 80 percent are un-
wanted and “unintended”. Arthur Campbell, in his
Journal of Marriage and the Family writes: “The girl
who has an illegitimate child at the age of 16 suddenly
has 90 percent of her life’s script written for her. She
will probably drop out of school . . . she will probably
not find a steady job that pays enough to provide for
herself and the child. Her life choices are few and most
of them bad.”

We are either for or against

abortion before

we even enter the discussion

The fact that the mother is young has everything to
do with this. Medical resons such as poor nutrition,
lack of or late prenatal care, drugs, alcohol, cigarettes,
all lower the baby’s chance of survival. Sixty-eight
percent of the babies that die within the first month do
so because they were born prematurely — before their
nine-month term. Early labor occurs frequently in the
15-19 age group partly due to the lack of good nutri-
tional and prenatal care. Without good nutritional and
prenatal care, two lives are at stake: the mother’s and
the child’s. The death rates to the mother from preg-
nancy, delivery, and birth are 60 percent higher for 15-
19 year olds and even higher in younger groups. The
deaths are often due to miscarriage or hemorrage.

The situation, then, has been described. The medi-
cal effects — infant deaths and complications to preg-
nancy and abortion — have been discussed. Problems
such as dropping out of school, a lack of job expe-

rience, marriage (three times more likely to end in di-
vorce than national average), and the complications
during childbirth, could fill another article. The ex-
pense of teenage pregnancy and childbearing is another
problem, a 4.65 billion dollar problem in 1975 and as-
suredly a larger problem today. This cost does not in-
clude food programs, medicaid, and publicly funded
prenatal care.

So, a young girl is sexually actrive, she is probably
having unprotected intercourse, and she finds herself
pregnant. (The passivity of “finds herself” is most
common, as many of these girls honestly “had no de-
sire to get pregnant.”) What are the choices available to
her and, what are the consequences of her choice, not
only to her but to us all?

Let’s assume abortion is illegal, or she wants to
keep her child. According to Charles V. Lave of HEW,
“very young women. . . are biologically too immature
for effective childbearing.” Infant mortality statistics ©
help to prove this.

Babies born to young mothers are two to three
times more likely to die within the first year of life. The
rates decrease as the age group increases from 10 to 19.
Age bracket 20 to 24 has the lowest rate, and it is
deemed to be the healthiest period of time to conceive.

Young mothers intending to keep their babies often
enter a clinical setting for prenatal care late in their first
trimester. They are often underweight, malnourished,
and lethargic about the care of themselves and their fu-
ture child.

Birth weight and prematurity are the two major
causes resulting in infant deaths, A low-weight baby is
forty times more likely to die within a month of birth.
These babies die from problems including congenital
heart diseases and retardation. The incidence of low
birth weight is concentrated in the 15-19 age group.

Far more important than how much this affects our
tax dollar is the burden of 600,000 babies born to teen
mothers that are not wanted, run a high risk of being
abused, abandoned, or left to grow up and continue this
disastrous chain of events.

The question of abortion then (at least to me) be-
comes one of the quality of life and the quality of moth-
erhood. Abortion may be religiously wrong for some,
morally wrong for others, and just gut-feeling wrong
for you, but the problem cannot be dealt with in terms
of what ought to be. The reality of young girls getting
pregnant, the number of babies dying because they
were born too early to an unhealthy mother, and the
idea of an unwanted child seems to be a greater wrong.

Perhaps abortion will be illegalized, but before we
do this or passively “let it happen,” we need to realize
the scale of the problem of teen pregnancy and the im-
plications to society if the number of girls described in-
creases and abortion is no longer an option.

For mere information, call Planned Parenthood: 951
South Independence Blvd. , 377-0841; 5237 Alberma-
tle Rd., 536-7233.

Anne is a senior French major from Baltimore, Mary-
land

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October. 1982. 9
