Student Artistry Unveiled in
Chambers Gallery

A wild and motly new exhibit ignited the walls of
the Gallery recently. Bold, young, and colorfully hon-
est, the exhibit represents a variety of levels of expe-
rience, means of artistic expression, approaches to art,
and most importantly, members of our own peer
group. Nearly all of the works originated in Davidson
art classes within the past year, and all were selected
and organized by Professors Herb Jackson and Russ
Warren specifically for this year’s student art show
which occurs annually in the Spring. Judged this year
by Paul Harcharik, a printmaker and artist in residence

at Spirit Square, the prize-winning works represent

radically different strains in Davidson art. John
Krotchko took the First Award with his dynamic 4’ x 5’
acrylic painting of a nocturnal street festival in India.
Vibrant and distinctly energetic, Krotchko’s painting
succeeds in its ambitious but unpremeditated attempt at
personalized expressionism. The prize-winning paint-
ing is characteristically Krotchko in its assertive use of
color, original and: ambitious subject matter, and
unique spacial presentation.

Anne Brennan, a senior art major, won the Second

Award with her primitive drawing in oil crayon. The
piece evokes the spirit Of a paleolithic cave painting in
its color, subject-matter, and seemingly carefree ges-
tures both in the oil crayon and in the lines scraped
from it. The Third Award recipient was.Bret Logan, a
junior art major, for his large abstract and primarily
pastel painting, The work derives its muted, chalky
cast from Logan’ s house-paint medium and its airy
energy from his juxtaposition of meditative .colors
within dynamic shapes. Logan sold another of his large
acrylic paintings which also is hung in the show to the
vice-president of the Lance (snacks) Company. The
work is vaguely reminiscent of a blaze of summer
through a frosted window as it presents a highly tex-
tured, bright core on a field of thin white through which
hints of underlying brightnes and texture yet escape.
The winners of all three awards were recipients of cash
prizes of fifty dollars and under.

Harcharik also awarded five honorable mentions,
three of which were etchings by Chuck Hasty, Whit

Wampler for “Empty Chairs,” and Margot Pearce for -

“First Across the Line.” Pearce also has present in the

exhibit a large oil painting which is worthy of note. Her
subtleties of color and meticulous style combine in the
work to create a mood distinctly characteritic of our
immediate geographical area. Further recipients of ho-
norable metions are True Davis for her oil painting of
patterns through a-window, and Sydney. Foreman for
her rich oil crayon still life. -

One particular category of artist that often goes with-
out great reward at Davidson is the figurative or realis-
tic artist. Paul Schultz is an outstanding example of this
category; he has done numerous portraits of Davidson
students as well as a degree of commercial art, and his
self-portrait appears in the show.

As one modest award-winning painter mentioned in
passing, he never even knew many of the students rep-
resented in the student show were interested in art, let
alone that they could present such a variety of work as
the show represents.

See them all. Discover the hidden talents of many of
your peers. It’s a great opportunity.

Linda Hulburt 83

First Annual

5k and 10k Cross-country Races
Saturday April 24,1982
Davidson College

Age Groups (Male and Female)

20 and under
21-39

40 and over

All Proceeds going to American Lung Association

isan by: National Society Of Scabbard and Blade

WLVV 97FM |

Sigma Phi ae Prmecnihy

Registration forms located at Union Desk

‘ DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

