Davidson And BASIC Knowledge

Center pursues campus computer literacy

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

The computer system at Davidson
continues to change as. fast as a Gandalf
blip at any one of the 31 terminals
around campus. Many new projects are
now being actively investigated by the
Computer Services Center (CSC); oth-
ers await the recommendations of the
Faculty Committee on Academic Com-
puting; and some changes were brought
about this past summer. Thus the com-
ing year promises to be one of hectic

growth, protean-like, for Davidson’s -

great tool/toy.

Of prime concern at the moment is
the training of more students to use the
computer. In a survey conducted last
spring by the CSC, many students re-
sponded that they did not know how to
use the computer nor how to find out
about it.

This year the CSC is offering com-
puter workshops which meet one hour a
day for one week and which teach the
basics of word processing (EDITOR
and RUNOFF). Sign-up sheets are post-
ed in terminal rooms although, due to a
six-student ceiling, workshops are filled
through 21 October.

To learn the rudiments of BASIC
programming, students can enroll in a
non-credit course, Math 001. Accord-
ing to Dr. Klein, who teaches the class-
es, the course meets twice a week for
four weeks to present the fundamentals

of BASIC. The rest of the term’s classes
deal with optional, more advanced top-
ics and meet only once a week. These
BASIC 001 classes are specifically de-
signed for students with no prior com-
puter experience; 001 courses in PAS}
CAL will be offered in the winter term
(as well as more BASIC courses), and
previous computer experience will be
preferable for the PASCAL classes.

. the coming year
promises to be one of
hectic growth,
protean-like,
for Davidson’s
great tool/toy

Though the 001 courses are non-credit,
students who complete them will quali-
fy, with some additional work specified
by the math department, for a notation
to be placed on their permanent record
reading: “Certified in Computer Profi-
ciency—Basic.”

Another source of computer infor-
mation is the new Computer User's
Guide, available in the student store.
Compiled this summer by junior Hunter

Monroe, this booklet contains a great
deal of useful information, including tu-
torials for introducing new users to the
system and a catalogue of the compu-
ter’s software, i. e., its languages and
programs as well as other general infor-
mation. The guide thus serves as a use-
ful reference manual for both new users
and experienced users.

In addition to these aids, work-study
students serve as monitors in the termi-
nal room in Chambers and at the CSC to
help anyone with a problem. The hours
of the monitors are Mon-Thurs 7-11
p.m. at the CSC; in Chambers Mon-
Thurs 6-11 p.m.; 12-6 p.m. Saturday;
2-11 p.m. Sunday. Also, a loose affilia-
tion of users known as PUG (Prime Us-
ers Group( has compiled a directory of
programs on the computer for general
use. Bill Appleton, Hunter Monroe, and
Dale Withrow are currently the students
supervising PUG. PUG programs in-
clude, for example, a proofreader for
misspellings with a vocabulary of over
11,000 words.

In last spring’s survey, many stu-
dents expressed a need for more access
to terminals. According to Dr. Desieno,
head of CSC, the terminal room in
Chambers is open 24 hours a day, seven
days a week in order to help alleviate
this problem. Hours for other terminal
locations remain as posted.

Another issue relating to ocomputer
usage that appeared in the CSC survey is

the Honor Code. The survey indicated
that a large majority of students felt that
the application of the Honor Code with
regard to the computer is not clear. The
Honor Code does, of course, apply to all
computer-related work as to any other
type of work. The Dean’s Office, along
with the Student Conduct Council are
currently trying to draw up specific
guidelines and welcome student opin-
ions on this question.

Davidson’s
capabilities are
Srowing

all it takes

1s to get
involved...

Davidson’s computer capabilities
are growing as fast as the community’s
interest; all it takes to get involved is in-
itiative. UFDs (User File Directories),
which are small, personal files in the
computer, can be obtained simply by
seeing Mrs. Betty Bradley, Coordinator
of User Services, at the CSC. Then the
possibilities are. . .

Continued from page |.

Membership dues are $5 per year. The
BSC is financed, in addition to member-
ship dues, by funds from the college ac-
tivities council.

With their money, the BSC sponsers
social events, both independently and in
conjuction with other houses on the
court; and the BSC will also sponser
“Black History Month” in February.
During Black History month, the BSC
will have an educational open house
with displays depicting various mo-
ments of importance in Black History,
and will sponser the “Martin Luther
King Lecture Series”, an annual event
which brought Senator Julian Bond to
the Campus last year.

Anne Elliott sees the BSC as “a back-
bone of strength for blacks, encourag-
ing one another socially, mentally and
academically.” Anne says, “The BSC
will expose whites to the culturé and
sensitivities of blacks that the majority
of Davidson students would never expe-
rience or face.” And adds that the BSC
is open to all students on campus at all

times.

“The racial atmosphere, if blacks
acquire the courage to aliow themselves
to be vulnerable and involve themselves
in various activities, will undoubtedly
bring about a more secure and strong
black character in a white-dominated
world; which is our ultimate goal,” says
Anne Elliott.

“The BSC is at Davidson to encour-
age interrelationships among blacks and
whites,” according to Judy Harrell.

Continued from page 1...

the chemistry section “is unbelievable.”

Chemistry Professor Dr. Roger Nutt
not only permits spots, but he even posts
them before each review. He defends
spots because they “give students an
idea about [the test] format” as well as
an “idea about what’s important,” and
they provide “additional experience in

problem solving.”

Nutt admits that he’s “spotable” and
adds that he bases “‘at least eighty per-
cent” of his tests on spots. In his classes
he openly states it is to the “students ad-
vantage” to study spots.

Philosophy department chairman Dr.
Earl Macormac also favors spots and
says that he “even gives them out some-
times.” German department Chairman
Dr. Julius Winkler says that spots “ha-
ven’t been much of a problem” since the
classes in his department “change books
so often.”

The views expressed by these profes-
sors partially result from differences
among their subjects. As Dr. Ault

points out, mathematics and chemistry -

professors make up new tests by simply
“changing the numbers.” Philosophy
and réligion professors alter their tests
by twisting the’ meaning of the ques-
tions. But the material on other disci-
plines, such as psychology, is not af-
fected much by subjectivity; naming
brain parts leaves little room for inter-
pretation.

Professors who prohibit spots must

face the problem of enforcement. The
Honor Code permits the use of spots, so
professors must charge offenders with
an “Act of Basic Dishonesty” as defined
by Section One of the Code of Respon-
sibility. Dr. Ault recognizes this prob-
lem: “If a professor has forbidden spots,
it puts a burden on students not to gener-
ate spots,” she says.

Dr. Kaylor feels that it is “asking a lit-
tle too much of the Honor Code” to pro-
hibit spots in certain cases because it is
difficult to restrict “publicly available
material.”

Since students will always be able to
acquire spots, the solution to the prob-
lem of unfair testing is to create new
questions every year. Students like
Chris Blake know that it is “the profes-
sors fault if they give the same test,
since spots will always be a resource.”

Dr. Kaylor echoes this view: “It is my
responsibility to make sure use of spots
is not a determining factor,” he says, ad-
ding that “If a method of testing is put
into jeopardy by the use of spots, then
you should change that method of test-
ing.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982

6
