MOTHER’s DAY SALE

25%to 60% savings on famous

brands sportswear:

Anne Klein e.
«SG. Hook’s Nells Flower

Nitya

ve

Hours:9:30-6:00 daily

Ralegh. /

Eagle’s Eye
Cole of California e

Lanz Sundresses

e Delaw
e Dippers
Deweese

additional
10% discount

Sasson Davidson
students

fe or ii |

Historical Docu-drama or Hollywood Fun’n Games

The major spring drama of Davidson College was the
world premiere run of performances of Ralegh!, atwo-
act play by Davidson alumnus James Pendleton. The
support and preparation for the propduction seemed to
befit the idea of a “world premiere”, at least as com-
pared with most college theatre. The production re-
ceived grants from the Charlotte Arts and Science
Council and the Grassroots Arts program of the N.C.
Arts Council, the costuming was elaborate and meticu-
lously designed to fit the play’s setting, the help of
various alumni was enlisted for specific technical du-
ties, and I sensed a certain seriousness or extra aware-
ncss of the public eye that I had not sensed in previous
productions. Carefully prepared posters were posted,
the play was publicized beyond Davidson, and the
show ran for three nights in Hodson Hall. It then

moved to Spirit Square in Charlotte for last weekend's -

performances.

I saw the April 25th performance in Hodson Hall,
and | have to wonder if the extra preparation I sensed
was for the play or for the premiere. What I mean, and
what is my most outstanding reaction, is that I think the
trappings of an- uncommonly major dramatic produc-
tion were there, but that the play itself did not give very
much to dramatize. A show was premiered, but did it
have any life after that in the thoughts of the people

who saw it? My thoughts were a form of the question: .

Did I miss something? The performance hinted that it
was more than a case presented, a sentence meted out
to aman, and case closed.

T'll start on that level. Ralegh! is about Sir Walter Ra-
leigh. The method is to perform his trial in 1618, and

by the use of flashbacks performed on stage it lets us
see the people and the events, or the discussion of
them, which caused Raleigh to be tried. In showing
those flashbacks, we learn that his guilt or innocence
does not merely depend on tallying the events. There is
the love, duty, public image triangle of Queen Eliza-
beth, Raleigh, and Bess Throckmorton: the six million

pound dowry for the marriage of King James’ son and.

the daughter of the King of Spain; and Ralegh'’s own
imposing personality.-There is the divine right of roy-
alty, the realm of poetry—the factors pertinent to the
tnai quickly became nebulous and unclean. To bring it
back to where I began, the performance I saw was en-

couraging. Roy Fuller did a fine job of evoking King ,
James. Todd Cowdrey as Ralegh and Janet Ward Black ©

as Queen Elizabeth delivered their lines clearly and
moved well together as they pushed and pulled in their
uncomfortable juggling of official matters. In the cast
over all the greatest practical problem was with the af-
fectation, or the lack, of a British accent. There was no.
standard.

Ralegh! suffers when it is viewed ori a level which is
not purely historical, on a level which adds the drama

‘to a string of events. I read the script and I think it is the

weak link, and the acting could not help but suffer with
it. Pendleton has taken a very colorful man-in the per-
son of Sir Walter Ralegh and written about an aspect of
his life which is. intriguing and which. shows human
prejudices and desires changing the course of a nation.
It seems like Pendleton realized that several fertile
themes could be developed, but that he couldn’t choose
one or two to concentrate on and explore. It could be

that by developing a theme behind the events he would
bve running the danger of giving an insubstantiable in-
terpretation of history, but by not taking the chance the
play totters between reenactment and drama, and the
actors must regularly deliver these foreboding, probing
lines without any deeper adventure into their meaning.
They have to talk about the relation of the King to God.
there are comparisons to Alexander the Great, the char-
acters live with divided love and poetry. But it only
creates a montage and it would be hard to find any de-
liberate motivation for an important line, and even the
best preparation for a play can’t overcome such defi-
ciencies in the script.

1 haye written a rather subjective, possibly nebulous
and unclear review of a pretty and competent but unin-

spiring play. Thope, though, that this review is a way to

talk about something more than Ralegh’, maybe it
is—I’m doing it now. First theatre—why be self-con-
scious? On the Davidson stage the most life is to be
found in the one-acts; though they can.bae awkward
they are human, and there is the potential for them to be
altogether excellent technically and thematically. Ma-
jor productions can be good, there is just more danger
that they will lumber and rely on something standard or
safe in some sense, though it is hard ot express. The
theatre around right now, as I write this? Why try and
say anything worthwhile, I might be wrong. But I try
anyhow, because I can’t live with nothing to say, no
emotions to convey, and no reason to walk naked at
dusk to see how it feels. Hmmm... .

Tom Pafford

“ haemaben.n” SB

14

whee oan . ia aan)

; Teg vs vat
PEA

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982
