Davidson

Jeremiah Maleche is a native Kenyan and the princi-
pal of a school in the village of Bushiangala,. Kenya.
His wife; Dina, is a nurse and works in a medical clinic
in the same village: They were both on campus last
week as guésts of the college and the Careers Office to
talk about Kenya and thie Davidson students and gradu-
ates who go there to teach.

Since Crawford Crenshaw ’72 ‘went to Mr. Ma-
leche’s school in Kenya seven years ago, a steady
stream of Davidson students have made the journey to
this East African republic. Some have stayed only

three days before asking Mr. Maleche to ‘drive them.

back down the 20km of dusty road which leads to Ka-
kamega and a plane home. Others like Crenshaw,
Andy Miller, Cathy Ansheles, and Mike McGrady
have stayed--some as long as 2 1/2 years:

Mr. Maleche speaks of Crawford Crenshaw almost
as a legend: He explains, “In Kenya cafrying water to
the home is a woman’s job.” Until Grenshaw came the
women of Bushiangala with water pots on their heads
made the long trek to a spring and back each day. Gren-
shaw somehow managed to convince‘a Dutch aid'agen-
cy to give funds to build a small dam'and lay pipe into
the village. And then there is a medical clinic. Before
Crawford Brenshaw came, the closest medical atten-

tion was 20 km away in Kakamega. Crenshaw who-

was headmaster at the local school was faced with
dropping enrollment because so many children were
sick with malaria: He came up with a plan to divert tui-
tion money from the school to help build a clinic to
treat school children and members of the community as
well. Those in the community paid for medical treat-
ment and the school was eventually reimbursed for the
loan. The stories go on about other Davidson gradu-
ates. One started a new school village. Another was re-
sponsible for getting a classroom built in another town.
Mr. Maleche also tells of a British bicycle rider who
was on his way through Kenya to South Africa. He met
a Davidson student who was teaching at a school.
Somehow the Davidson-student convinced him to stay
and become a teacher himself.

Mr. Maleche emphasizes that our eduicatien here in.

America is mostly theoretical but in Kenya it becomes

tional and‘administrative skills which we use everyday

and take for granted are needed in third world coun-_

tries. Mike McGrady who has recently returned from
Kenya says that we know more than we.think we do

and in Kenya our knowledge can be put to practical use»
and tested. A student who decides to live and work in.
é binds find out he has the — 10 aby people

« about a cause, such as a building of a classroom. Or

maybe he finds that he can see how to make a local bus-
iness more efficient. And someone interested in medi-
cine can certainly find out about the practical side of
medicine after working i in Dina Maleche’s clinic for a
while.

Mr. Maleche has no official role other than principal

“of his school. But he sees his inofficial job as that of :

easing the transition of Davidson students into the Ke-
nyan community they choose. He ericourages newco-
mers to look around and select carefully where they
best fit in, be it a tiny bush school or a large govern-
ment school such as the one Mike McGrady taught in.
Can you be the headmaster of a struggling school? Or
are you more comfortable as a teacher? Your limits are
your own confidence and abilities.

“In Kenya you will learn to be patient if you want to

* get anything done,” Mr. Maleche says.-Many aban-

doned school projects stand half finished as testimon-
ials to his words. Continuity of effort is the key to suc-
cess in Kenya. There is the story of a small school
where an American student became headmaster. He in-
creased the enrollment and started many good pro-

’ grams and then left without replacement. The school

stagnated without leadership and when another Amer-
ican came she found only problems at the school.
Eventually there was a riot between students and
teachers. The new*American teacher left and was re-

‘placed in another school, but;the torn school she left

has dwindled and become very small again. It is prob-
lems such as this which Mr. Maleche seeks to prevent.
He is in the United States now for the first time to keep
the flow of students coming, to ensure the continuity of
effort which can slowly gnaw away at Kenya’s prob-
lems.

Why not the Peace Corps? Why is this unofficial stu-

dent program so important to Mr. Maleche? He ex-

plains that agencies such as the Peace Corps and the
British Voluntary Service (B.V.S.) must work through
a bureaucracy. He tells of aB.V.S. representative who
refused to place a volunteer at his school-because there

was no doctor near enough nor any house with running
water. He adds that Davidson students have survived
practical. Our use of the English language, organiza-

quite well under’ these conditions. ‘Also organizations

_ such as the Peace Corps and the B.V.S. pay their vo-
“Junteers roughly three times what a Kenyan gets to do
* the same job such as teaching. This separates the or-
_ ganization’s volunteers from the community. It allows
_ them to bring their old lifestyles with them and they are

less likely to respect the native culture. Davidson stu-
dents, on the other hand, leave the West behind when

n School Principal Visits

they step into Kenya and Mr. Maleche says they seem

_ to like it that way. They earn about $30 a month and us-

- ually live with a Kenyan family. Living is cheap and

the salary is adequate but won’t cover a lot of traveling
or éven a lot of beer according to Mike McGrady. Mr.
Maleche says Davidson students seem to come with a
genuine sensitivity to the local culture and-the desire to
learn about it and not to change it or be above it.
Malnutrition ranks second behind malaria as the
reason for the'line that coils around Dina Maleche’s
medical clinic. Can it be that teaching physics as Mike
McGrady did or English Literature as Cathy Ansheles
did really addresses Kenya’s problem? Mr. Maleche
draws a direct correlation between malnutrition and il-
literacy particulary among women. He explains that
Kenya has rich land and that.a balanced diet is
within the reach of most families, but most mothers do
not know what a balanced diet is and they can’t read.
Women are traditionally second class.citizens in Kenya
and have had little access to education. Mr. Maleche
says that the poor place of women in Kenyan society is
“our disease,” a disease which now haunts Kenya in
the gaunt form of malnourished children. A teacher
from America eases this problem by increasing the
general level of education and literacy. Also, most all
of the arable land in Kenya is now.in use. A young Ke-
nyan can not expect to inherit part of his father’s farm
now because plots are already so small as to barely sup-
port a family. This generation of Kenya’s young must
find a job and be a part of Kenya’s new industrial
development. To get a job, education particularly in
the sciences. is required. Davidson graduates can help
provide this kind of education.

Kenya’s problems are great as is the challenge to
face them which Mr. Maleche has left us. Since Jere-
miah Maleche began his own education with a stick to
mark in the dirt and a native teacher, he has met the
challenge of Kenyan life. And since Kenya became in-
dependent of Britian in 1963, he has seen the number of
schools increase by a facctor of three and students like
those that come from Davidson become an influence
throughout western Kenya. Mr. Maleche is “very op-
timistic” about what is to come. He adds, “You can
hardly forget where a Davidson student has been.

. Information on teaching in Kenya is available in the

Careers Office or through writing directly to someone

now teaching in Kenya.

by Frazier Worth 2

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982

[BARBER FOR MEN"AND
WOMEN
YOU NAME IT — WE'LL

STYLE IT
NORTON’S:
BARBER SHOP.

MN SEE

