~ Volume LOK, Number 1

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson Collegé

Friday 8 January 1982

Terry, oi Respond
to Kazee Poll

Dr. Kazee’s Public Opinion survey |

charts gave interested Davidsonian
readers an opportunity to see how the
student body responded to a number of
controversial’ questions about the At-
hletic Department, Patterson Court, and
the Honor ea ;

Briefly, the charfg revealed that a
majority of students interviewed feel
that the Honor Code is effective, but a
substantial: minority remains skeptical
about ‘the- consistency in procedures

applied to reported violations. The Polls

indicated a genéral support of the athlet-
ic department and its ability to cater to
most students. Davidson women voted
an overwhelming “no” to sororities at
the college,.and Davidson gentlemen
expressed a strong desire to see fraterni-
ty bid systems incorporated into the Da-
vidson experience.

~ Chairman of the Council on Campus
and Religious Life, Dean Terry, said He
was surprised that 33. percent of the

women asserted they would definitely.
not enter a sorority, and only 7 percent

said they would join absolutely. He stat-

_ ed that he supports the “well presented
proposal” for another exclusively fe-
male eating house,-despite the seeming

lack of desire for all-female social
clubs. Later he added that “single-sex
social organizations have. been more
successful” here than coed ones.

Honor Code questions were greeted

with some alarmingly high percentages
of negative response. For instance, 36
percent of the polled studens feel that
most people do not report suspected vio-

lations. In addition, 35 percent said they
do not believe that consistent proce-
dures are applied to all reported viola-
tions. Dean Terry. chose not to respond
to these figures, but to: enthusiastically

emphasize that 74 percent of the stu-

dents felt the code needs no major revi-
sion. He said he thought such results in-
dicate that students are willing to sup-
port the status.quo as long as it seems to
work well.

At the same time, Dean Terry ad-
mitted that the poll clearly shows that
students need to be better educated
about the Honor System. “One ‘of the
problems that we have with the Honor
System,” he said, “is that we emphasize
the positive so much.” Students seem to
think that Honor Code infractions simp-
ly do not occur, and Senior Honor
Council Member Debbie Metzgar ad-

mitted that when she-entered Davidson,

she believed it impossible for an Honor
Code violation to really happen. In Ter-
ry’s opinion, the Honor Systems weak-

nesses become more difficult to accept -

when only optimistic information about
the System circulates throughout the
college community.

Acting Athletic Director Ed Farrell

felt, as Dean Terry did, that the poll re-

vealed Davidson students to be unin-
formed about important aspects of
school activities. He was pleased to see
that 98 percent polled supported school

athletics in general and 49 percent said

the program was worth its cost. Howev-
er, he thought students need to know
more about intercollegiate teams’ div-

isional standings which are “a mixed

bag there’s no question.” He said he felt

that.a fairly strong support for Division I
standing réflects students’ desire to par-

‘ticipate in the traditional level of com-

petitiveness for Davidson and to main-
tain Southern Conference visibility.
“Athletics are like politics,” he said.
“Everyone ‘thinks they know every-

" thing,” and everyone gets very emotion-

al about their opinions. Farrell agreed

‘ tnat the polls might reflect some of this

emotional loyalty to athletic standards
of the past.

According to Kazee class member
Rob Johnson, the ‘class did | attempt
some interpretation of the survey results
during the very last days of the term.
However, he did not know whether the
interpretation was completed, or wheth-
er it, is available for administrators or
students.

Election Results

The SGA conducted elections on
December 15 for the offices of Union
Board, Y-Corp, Freshman advisors,
editorshps of the Davidsonian, the

- Wildcat Handbook, and Quips and

Cranks. The unopposed co-editors of
Quips and Cranks are juniors Carol
Roche and Jim Reeves. The Y-Corps
posts, also uncontested, are President
Cathi Dumas, a junior; Vice-President

Micheal Kelley, a junior; Treasurer An- -

drew Wilson, a sophmore; and Commu-
nity Liason Melissa McManis, also. a
sophomore. |

The actual competition for offices
pitted sophomore Stewart Cauley
against classmate Jeb Benedict for Da-

vidsonian editor, and the teams of so-
phomores Sherri Lind and Lindsey Rad-
er versus juniors Mike Frankhouser and
Laura Champlain for Wildcat Hand-
book co-editors. For the Union Board
offices, juniors Lindsey Biddle and
Mike Goode vied for president, junior
Sherman Allen opposed classmate Eli-

- zabeth “McMillian for co-curricular
vice-president, and junior Steve Stine ©

faced junior Danny Waddill for vice-
president for social activities. Three
teams of two, all juniors, David Carr

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 8 January 1982

and John Mann, Reaves Robinson and
Gordon Turnbull, and Amy Critten-
berger-and Mike Mason, vied for the
posts of Freshman Advisors.

The winners of the contested races
are: Stewart Cauley, Davidsonian Edi-
tor; Mike Frankhouser and Laura
Champlain, Wildcat Handbook co-edi-
tors; Mike Goode, Union Board Presi-
dent; Elizabeth McMillan, Union Board
co-curricular Vice-President; and Dan-
ny Waddill, Vice-President for Social
Affairs. Since neither of the three pairs
running for Freshman: Advisors re-
ceived over 50% of the vote, on the 16th

‘the SGA held a runoff between the two

top vote-getters, Amy Crittenberger/
Mike Mason and Reaves Robinson/
Gordon Turnbull. Amy Crittenberger

. and Mike Mason won this race.

796 students, or approximately
57% of the student body, voted in the
student election. 500 or roughly 35%
voted in the runoff. The winners will

serve in their -various capacities
throughout 1982.

Lucy Everett
