F ilm Reviews with Matt Morris

The Sharif don’t like it

(Doctor Zhivago, [1965], directed by David Lean;
based on the novel by Boris Pasternak; starring Omar
Sharif, Julie Christie, Alec Guiness, Geraldine Cha-
plin, Rod Steiger, Tom Courtenay, Rita Tushingham)

Viewer’s Guide: some violence, adult situations. Rat-
ing: * KKK ‘

After the marathon showing of Gone With The
Wind, I heard many filmgoers echo the almost clichéd
statement, “They don’t make them like that anymore.”
Well, the fact is that they do, and Doctor Zhivago,
playing Wednesday at 8:00 is class evidence. Not only
is it this half-century’s answer to GWTW, Zhivago in
fact tops Scarlett O’Hara’s soap operatic plight.

Based on Boris Pasternak’s sweeping novel, Zhi-
vago translates beautifully to the screen, capturing all
the epic grandeur and humanism of the novel. The sto-
ry concerns a young Russian poet, Zhivago, who is
trapped in a conflict of ideals at the time of the Bolz-
hevik Revolution in 1917. Omar Sharif, in the title
role, has never been better. He’s about as far from Rus-
sian as you can get, but never mind, Zhivago’s charac-
ter still stirs up a motherland of empathy. Alec Guiness
is, as always, wonderful as he continues to display his
wide range of talent. Julie Christie, also at a pinnacle in
her career, is simply sublime. The real star of the show,
however, is Tom Courtenay as the rebellious Pasher, a
perfectly real individual who readily appeals to the
angry young man in all of us.

If the film were to be judged by the actors alone it
would already get a **** rating ; but there’s more: Dav-
id Lean’s intelligent interpretation of the novel injects
all the best lines from the book onto the screen with a
grace that tops his Lawrence of Arabia (a personal fa-
vorite so this is high praise) and Maurice Jarre’s musi-
cal theme is one of the most hauntingly beautiful melo-
dies I’ve ever heard.

At 197 minutes Zhivago is long but never overlong,
and in my opinion, the finest of some very fine films on
this term’s agenda. If you are not moved by Guiness’s
final comment on the whereabouts of Laura, your heart
is made of pure stone. -

Bad Scene

{48 Hrs., directed by Walter Hill; screenplay by Walter
Hill; starring Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy and Annette
O'Toole.) Viewer’s Guide: The strongest language
I’ve ever heard, period (and some skin.) Rating:**'

(Ed. note: The reviewer’s review was likewise a
“bad scene.” The gist of his article spoofed the hack-
neyed, “good ole boy,” honky / soulman plot capital-
ized on by the movie. See it if you want.)

“

Silly Simon

ara C4 ese amy

(Murder by Death, (1976) directed by Robert Moore,
screenplay by Neil Simon; starring Alec Guiness,
Peter Falk, Peter Sellers, Maggie Smith, David Niv-
en, Jamer Cow and Nancy Walker) Viewer’s Guide:
mild profanity (PG). Rating:***

Neil Simon’s comedies have always had a sort of
self-conciousness towards humor which verge on the
grotesquely cute. As if in reply to this, Simon, in
1975, wrote the savagely funny (if very silly) comedy
Murder by Death. Playing Friday in Love Auditori-
um, I can recommend Death only if you are in the
mood for some really inane (and enjoyable) comedy.

The plot centers around a typical gathering of
some not-so-typical detectives at a very typical old
dark house. Typical lumminaries like Peter Falk,
Jimmy Coco, Alec Guiness, et al star, but best of all
is Peter Sellers as a Charlie Chan detective (minus
his ever-hilarious, ever-racial companion Birmingh-
am Brown, however). All these characters have been
gathered together by the multi-millionaire / eccentric
“Lionel Twain” (Truman Capote!) and the subject of
the visit is naturally murder.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

' Post OFFICE Box 218, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

=

The film moves from standard comedy to just
plain bizarre with a “mind-blowing” (only way to de-
scribe it—sorry) ending. The jokes interlaced along
the way are alternatingly painful and brilliant. Neil
Simon doesn’t bring the house down with Murder by
Death, but he still suceeds in delivering a good pack-
age thanks to an energetic cast and a script that gen-
erally sparkles. Silly Simon stays in the background
enough for me to recommend Murder by Death.

Hester and Lillian Gish!

(The Scarlet Letter [1926], directed by Victor Sjstrom,
based on the novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne; starring
Lillian Gish, Lars Hanson, Henry B. Wathall, Karl
Dane) Viewer’s Guide: don’t worry. Rating: ***

One of the most pleasant surprises this year for
filmgoers has to be Dr. Engell’s Film as Narrative Art
class (Ed. note—Kudos earned). While intended main-
ly for his film class, Dr. Engle encourages any interest-
ed students to come watch, and believe me, it is worth a
look. Classic movies will be shown every Tuesday at
7:30; movies like Greed (Erich Van Stronheim’s bi-
zarre masterpiece), Dr. Strangelove (Stanley Ku-
brick’s even more bizarre masterpiece) and Citizen
Kane (the greatest movie ever made).

Victor Sjstrom’s 1926 The Scarlet Letter will hit
Perkins Auditorium on the 13th and 14th. This obscure
version of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s famous novel is sur-
prisingly good, with heartwarming performances and
no-nonsense, straightforward direction by Sjstrom
(those who saw Moviola on TV may remember Sjstrom
as Greta Garbo’s mentor—as played by Brian Keith).
In Moviola Sjstrom was shown to be an extreme per-
fectionist, and that’s evident in The Scarlet Letter.
There’s a vague, detached atmosphere to the proceed-
ings and it all meshes well with the original story.
Don’t miss The Scarlet Letter or any of the othet films:
you'll find it a tasty cultural experience.

Kudos, Kudos

Both John Munson and Scot Myers are to be
congratulated for the excellent offerings of movies
they have arranged for us this term. John has got
some “pop” films with class, and Scot has finally
figured out what a “fine” film really is. There’s
not a bad movie on either schedule, and I heartily
encourage you, the viewer, to catch any or all of
the flicks brought in. Again, good job, gents.

Subscriptions cost 12. per year within the United States and its possessions;
16. per year elsewhere in North America; 22'. in Europe (30. air-speeded).

Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982 _

13
