DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

Wildcat 9 Hack It
Out in the Mire

Ask Davidson baseball coach
George Greer to describe the season,
and he’ll reply “Wet.” His response re-
flects Greer’s concern for his Wildcats,
who are 5-4 thus far.

“The rain has been giving us real
problems,” says Greer. “A bunch of our
games have been postponed because of
the weather, and even more important-
ly, we haven’t been able to pratice the
past four days. I hope we get a break
from the weather.”

Greer sees the weather as causing
the major obstacle facing his team right
now. “We haven’t been hitting the ball
well, but that’s something that will
_ come around. I think the fact that it

~ hasn’t been. there yet is because we ha-
ven’t been able to play and practice con-
'. tinously bécause of the bad weather.”

The present leaders at the plate for Da-

vidson are Allen Griffin (.400, 1 HR, 13
RBI), Scott Redding (.406), Earl Ran-
som (.276, 7 RBI) Phil Gordon (.250, 7
RBI) and Todd Hermetz (6 RBI). —

The pitching with the exception of
a 23-0 pasting by South Carolina, a'par-
ticipant in last year’s College World
Series, has held up. Greer lauded the ef-
forts of Rusty Colechia (2-1, 5.57 ERA)
and Ransom (1-1, 6.00 ERA). Other
Wildcat pitchers who have seen a lot of
action are Doug Wiley. (1-0, 1 save,
2.37 ERA) and Ed Whitesides (1-0,
6.21 ERA). \

The Wildcat’s next game is against
Fairmount State, and a weekend dou-
bleheader against ‘Marshall at David-
son. Greer commented — “If the pitch-
ing holds up, and the hitting starts to
come around, we’ll be fine.”

by Steve Soud:‘84

Cats Drop One

_Davidson’s
men’s track team finished second in a
dual meet with Washington and. Lee
University Saturday.

Despite strong individual
performances and 9 first-place finishes
(out of seventeen events), the Wildcats
fell to W&L’s greater depth. Davidson’s
lack of depth was especially felt in the
sprints and in the weight events, where
they scored only 20 out of a possible 64

points.

' Davidson countered this area of
weakness by displaying strength in the

distances and in the jumping events.

Several outstanding performances were

turned in by Davidson’s runners and

jumpers. The Wildcats swept the triple
jump and took the top two places in the
long jump, high jump and pole vault.

Alec Driskill and Lance Sisco trailed

wins and second place finishes in the

triple jump and long jump, respectively,
while Jeff Carter produced a creditable
performance in the high jump, winning it

with a jump of 6’6’’ and giving 6’8"’ a

good scare before bowing out. In the
distances, Randy McManus gave a
strong early season showing in the
1500m with a time of 4:02.61, a race
costing him a bruised heel which forced
his withdrawal from the 500m held later.
That ‘race was won by Franklin Ivey in
16:14.7.

The trade-off of strengths and
weaknesses resulted in a very close meet.

’ Davidson garnered enough points in the

sprints and throws (firsts by Lance ‘Sisco
in the 100m and 110m high hurdles and
by Ray Sinclair in the shot put) to place
them within four points of W&L with the
mile relay undecided. Once again, —
however, the Cats’ lack of depth
displayed itself and Washington and Lee
claimed an easy victory in that event to
ice the meet. .
Davidson’s women had an open date
this week, but will see action this
weekend at Appalachian State. The men
will also be at Appalachian State next
Saturday, and both teams will return
home the following-Saturday in a meet

__. By Jeff Hamilton ‘82

19
