‘To the Editor: .

I certainly was surprised to see what
Paul Q. Lazarro/ATO said about Thur-
ston Hatcher’s mother, How does Paul/
ATO know that Thurston’s mom works
in the kitchen at home? She may not! At
my house my mother does not wash the
dishes. My father washed them, and

when I’m home, I help. How unfortu-.

nate that Paul/ATO, who I assume

prides himself/itself on being non-con-

formist, should fall into the use of such

stereotypical delineations. I had such -

faith in you.

Another thing: I thought ATO stood
up for individualism. If you do, then
~ why didn’t you ‘sign your letter with a

real name? Are you afraid to accept the
consequences of you own statements?
Furthermore, I have reason to believe
that one letter signed “ATO” may not
reflect the ideas of the entire ATO or-
ganization. Let individuals speak for
themselves, and you speak for yourself.

Thurston Hatcher had the nerve to

sign his real name, and so sign mine,

, Lindsey B, Durway

SS

To the Editor:

Elizabeth Brazell told you last week
that she broke her elbow at 8:15 on a
Saturday morning ‘ “as a result of physi-,.
cal plant neglect. "1 think the accusation
was unfair, and you ought to agree, un-
~ Jess you think it is a reasonable policy to

call in grounds crew members at some
ungodly a.m, hour on their day off. The
steps ia queen

the snowfall several days before
(“didn’t lookice-covere:
rain had coated them that night. The
“physical plant” did call in, grounds
workers to clear the ice, but had the con-
sideration not to call them before 8:15.

These details may. seem somewhat

Soh atic eee ae We

* Sony:
Pea Mr tia tan gS eA

1”), but freezing

it they are relevant, and Eli-
zabeth seemed to understand the situa-

of her fall. Nebulous scapegoats are fun
to ride, though, and she proceeded with

‘her letter. What really angers me,

though, is tha she refused to publicly
soften her accusation even. after I had
explained the situation more fully, obli-
gating me to take a hunk out of a busy
evening to correct her for you.

None of this has any bearing on the ar-
gument Elizabeth was supposedly writ-

“ing to second, that the college should
have the ice cleared off all the walks;

steps, which are more dangeropus, are
generally cleared as soon _as possible.

I felt sorry for people on crutches, . too,
and I think the proposal ought to be con-
sidered. Even if the money and time
needed could be made available, how-
ever, implementation would not be ea-
sy; once the steps are cleared, the walks
are likely to be solidly trampled and ref-
rozen. A tractor-snowplow, with my
weight on the blade, was unable to p-
enetrate the ice on a walk near
Chambers. Gripe, but take some trouble
to understand who and what you are at-
tacking. Specific, well-considered sug-
gestions are more useful in this type of
situation, though, and, if they are not
listened to, » You have cause to gripe.

: To the Editor:

Upon this lush: campus with its monu-
ments constructed to praise and encour-
age our ability to devour—food, drink,

books, each: other—has this become all
-we can even imagine doing? There ex-

ists today only a mere scar to remind us
of how we once carelessly whiled away
the time; how we played! How we

_ played at.leaving our studies and our

analytiucal minds behind—in a time be-

fore the video invasion! How we played

at romance on. moonlit evenings to the
singing of the stars without the Band
Party Blare! Where have the simple

— pant I lament that those who i

transfer into or visit Davidson, this
year’s freshmen and maybe the next will
not be able to enjoy the swing that pre-

~ viously hung outside Richardson dorm
= and that many of the rest do not miss
- such simple play!

Debbie Eisenbise

To the Editor:

Over. the past months the College ;

Union has sustained serious damage,

apparently due to alcohol abuse. The ”

Union Board is not only concerned that
there was damage to the building but al-
so that no student has volunteered any
information about the cause of the dam-
ages.

‘In order to increase student gwvareness
of the seriousness of this vandalism,
which is a violation of the Code of Re-
sponsibility, the Union Board has de-

cided that from this Wednesday through |

Saturday the 900 Room will remain op-
en, but no alcohol will be served. We do
not intend this as a punishment but as a
reminder of students’ responsibility.

members who would prefer to fill the
empty spaces at Rusk instead of eating
with the new house.,

My first inclination was to let this
matter go unmentioned, but because of

encouragement from other students and

faculty who seem quite discontented
with the frequent distortions printed in
The Davidsonian, along with cries from
Rusk members of “we aren’t unhappy”,
I felt compelled to offer your readers
these statements—straight from the
horse’s mouth—in hopes of a more ac-
curate statement of my position.

Shannon Walters
President, Rusk House

(Ed. note: 1 have checked Peter Gulyn’s -
notes for this article and found that the
story corresponds to them..Ms..Wal-
ters’ comments may not, however, re-
flect every Rusk member’ s opinion.)

Members of the Union Board will be <>

available during Coffee and Cokes this
Thursday to discuss the issue and will be
in the 900 Room every night from
Wednesday through Saturday.

Davidson College Union Board

To the Editor:

In last week’s article regarding the
proposal for a new all-women’s eating
house, I was quoted as saying that “no
one” in Rusk House was happy. I’m
afraid my comments were misunder-
stood. ,

It is true that Rusk House is a diverse
group of people (can you imagine any
group of 85 that wouldn’t be diverse?)

but this is something we take pride in

since a great number of Davidson coeds
have interest in and enjoy Rusk. I would

also agree that in a group of 85 there will

always be some who are not always hap-

py with all the activities that are geared"

toward pleasing the majority. However,
I would not go so far as to say that “no

don’t think we’d have over 45 people
waiting to join Rusk. .

Furthermore, I did not say that “the
only ‘way to please everyone is to separ-

ate the girls into two eating houses, in- _

stead of simply placing the girls on the
Waiting list into the new house.”
What I did say, which was apparently

misconstrued, was that | was aware that =
some. Rusk members would probably |

leave Rusk to join the new house since
there would now be a choice between

‘two all-female houses, but that this did.

not threaten the stability of. our house

due to the number of waiting list ©

_-one” is happy. If this was the case, I *. :

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 5 February 1982
