Graebner Speaks Out

Reynolds Lecturer espouses pragmatism and objecti vity

By SCOTT EBLIN ’83

The need for pragmatism and objectivity in United
States foreign policy was the overarching theme of four
speeches delivered. at Davidson by Dr. Norman
Graebner, the Reynolds Lecturer for this fall term.
Graebner who is Stetinnius Professor of History at the
University of Virginia, has been a specialist in Amer-
ican foreign policy for the last thirty years.

The basis of Graebner’s approach to analysis of U.
S. foreign policy was put forth in his first address at a
Monday luncheon in the 900 Room. Speaking on “Ob-
ligation vs. Interest in American Foreign POlicy,” Dr.
Graebner asserted that it is the task of a president to de-
termine whether a potential foreign policy action is of
essential or secondary importance to the national inter-
est. If that action is essential it will “serve the nation in
all its facets.” If, on the other hand, the action is of se-
condary importance, it is usually more ideological in
its bent and in Graebner’s view, “serves an idea not.a
nation.” Dr. Graebner asserted that until the presiden-
cy of William McKinley the U. S. had “an amoral ap-
proach to world affairs” in which action was only in-
itiated when it was related to the national interest. In
Graebner’s opinion, this policy was abandoned when
McKinley annexed the Phillipines for humanitarian
reasons and because of a perceived “responsiblity to
the poor Filipinos.” Graebner asserted that from this
point on, American foreign policy has for the most part
“pursued the abstract rather than the specific.” In this
regard Dr. Graebner cited the parallels between.Wood-
row Wilson’s belief that “America was born free that
man might be free” with the 1964 Republican Party
platform which stated that there must be in the world “a
victory freedom, (and that) there can be no peace, no

security until this goal is won.’.-Referring to-these~~

The current problem with —

NATOthreatens its future

as never before

statements, Dr. Graebner rejected their implications
that the U. S. must be the savior of humanity, because
the U. S. “can’t establish and justice for the
whole world.” “We have,” he said, “lived every day in
a world with oppression and it hasn’t bothered us in the
least.” In determining foreign policy, Graebner be-
lieves the U. S. should recognize that “many f the prob-
lems of human society are simply inherent” in history,
geography, religion, economics and the like. This, in
Graebner’s view, eliminates a U.S. obligation to help
all humanity because “no nation is obligated to do what
it can’t.”

. Graebner’s call for pragmatism extended into his
next lecture, “Divided American in Quest of Security.”
Dr. Graebner began this talk by noting that while there
has not been a complete consensus, most post-war
American decision makers have regarded the threat
from the Soviet Union as a direct strategic challenge to
the U. S. and as an indirect challenge manifested by

Soviet intervention in the Third World. This ‘latter ©
ignored by U. S. presi.

. threat has periodically been
‘dents, but with the 1979 Soviet invasion of AFghanis-

tan ithas been at the forefront of U.S.-Soviet tensions.
“Graebner pointed out that the essence of the Carter :

Doctrine—that the U.S. will meet any Soviet chal-
lenge for world oil supplies—was expanded by the in-
coming Reagan administration into a view that the So-
viet Union was the instigator of civil unrest around the
world and that it was the responsibility of the U. S. to
meet this challenge. The Administration’s early em-
phasis on El Salvador and the potential of a “domino
effect” in which Central America would gradually be-
come communist was cited by Graebner as a result of
this view. Dr. Graebner criticized the Administration
for its policy of tough talk and large defense spending

di had been mochanee ia des nature S.S.R. when

fe had been no change in the status quo of the last 30
rs vis 4 vis a direct Soviet threat to U.S. / European

‘Sonny Graebner noted that since World War II “the
US. ‘integrity of borders and those of its allies have re-

secure. Losses in the Cold WAr, if any, have

_beeit” very small indeed.” The Reagan Administration

has, in Graebner’s view, realized in the last few

‘mofiths that the given realities of the world’s balance

ofpower require pragmatism and not ideology in deter-
mining U.S. foreign policy. Given. these realities,
Graebner asserted that far from influencing any Soviet
action the current administration, like the Carter Ad-
ministration, will have to live with Soviet action which
does not directly theaten the U.S. or its allies.

Dr. Graebner’s third lecture dealt with the rdle of

‘Henry Kissinger in recent U.S. foreign policy.

_ Coming Soon _

Graebner commended Kissinger for his great vision
and skill in saving lingering problems from the cold
war, with the establishment of U.S./Soviet détente. In-
itiation of the Middle East peace process was also cited
by Graebner as a major achievement of the former Se-
cretary of State. while Graebner criticized Kissinger

Graebner criticized

| the Administration for its

policy of tough talk

for his lack of interest and expertise in the increasingly
important area of global economics, he gave Kissinger
high marks overall for his ability to determine those
areas in J.S. foreign policy where success was achiev-

“able and to then act on those areas.

“Western Disunity: Its Challenge to America” was
the theme of Dr. Graebner’s last lecture. In this talk,
Dr. Graebner noted that while the Atlantic Alliance has
had strains throughout its 30 year existence, the current
problems within NATO threatens its future as never
before. Dr. Graebner saw this threat stemming from an

Look for
=MOVIE

MOA UG

in the
next
issue
of your
college
news-

paper.

10

wate! Be mae FR OST OS myer a6

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982
