Education in Kenya

As in many Third World nations,
Kenya has pinned a lot of hopes on Edu-
cation as the key to development. Over
60% of the national budget is devoted to
Education, and student population has

gone from about 300,000 in 1970 to —

over 5 million today. There is enormous

investment of manpower, construction, -

planning and ‘study going to meet the
heavy demand for learning in the popu-
lation. Not only traditional schools, but
adult literacy classes, nurseries, techni-
cal training and trade courses are boom-
ing. With population increasing at over
4% annually and 80% of the population
under the age of 20, huge expenditures
are needed just to keep from falling be-
hind.

At Independence, there were four
schools in the country where Africans
could receive a complete secondary ed-
ucation (up to 12th grade). Most never
went beyond primary school (6th grade)
because the colonial government dis-
couraged educating Africans. Thus,
few people over 35 have much educa-
tion, including the President of the
country who completed Form II (8th
grade). At independence people were
clamoring for.education, and since that
time the nation has struggled to meet the
demand.

The educational system in Kenya

still closely follows the British pattern,

emulating one of the most exclusionary
of Western programs. National Exami-
nations at various levels prevent large
numbers of students from continuing

their education. In addition, there is a

great shortage of schools and: trained

teachers in the country, even for the rel-

atively small number who manage to
pass the examinations. Education is fur-
ther limited by high school fees, espe-
cially beginning at the secondry level
(approximately 7th grade in the USA).

Primary education was taken over
by the government and made nominally
free in 1974, although many schools
continue to charge “building funds,”
“parents association dues” and require
students to buy their own uniforms and
various other equipment. Some areas
continue to resist education while in
others, especially large towns, there is a
scramble for available spaces. Primary
students come in all ages, with some
leaving standard 7 at age 22, others at
age 12.

_ Secondary school fees are general-
ly $200-$300 per year in a country
where the annual per capita income is
around $250. Government schools tend
to be more, not less expensive at the se-

condary level. Examinations and school
fees account for the high incidence of
ulcers among the very young. The stu-
dents face national examinations which
can determine their future at standard
VII (6 grade), Form II (8th grade), Form

IV (10th grade), and Form VI (12th

grade). At every step, well over half the
examined students are eliminated. In
980, 11 per cent of those students who
at the Kenya Junior Secondary Exami-
nation (Form II) passed. Those who fail
examinations, desperately scramble for
any chance of further training or educa-
tion, and are usually disappointed.

The whole educational system is
geared to passing certain examninations
to earn the certificate that unlocks the
doors to success. Any deviation from
the set syllabus is thus a waste of pre-
cious time and a disservice to anxious
students. Of course:this is.a very frus-
trating system for an American teacher
used to an extremely broad educational
freedom. The burden of school fees and
expelling those who cannot pay is also
particularly painful, along with turning
away sO many eager students who are
below a certain standard on the exami-
nations. However, we must work and
do our best with the system we find, try-
ing to influence change as best we can.

There is still a great need for expat-
riaté help at the secondary level — espe-
cially at the smaller, newer and pooer
schools where well-qualified Kenyans
refuse to work. With only one Universi-
ty in the country, it is easy to see why
there are so very few secondary teachers
with even a B.A., while in the U.S.
nearly all states demand a masters de-
gree for any serious teaching position at
secondary level, and increasingly at pri-
mary schools. Also, the narrow scope of
a Kenyan education which demands
specialization in 3 to 4 subjecs by Form
V (11th grage) further undermines the
flexibiity and experience of Kenyan
teachers.

At least, recently, the Kenyan
Ministry of Education has been making
an effort to weed out the British syllabus .
and develop one sensible for Africa, It
was not until last year that Shakespeare
left the literature syllabus — in a coun-
try where English is a third language
and knowledge of 16th century Endland
nearly non-existent! The schools of Ke-
nya, poorly equipped, inadequately
staffed and full of post-colonial anach-
ronisms continue to struggle to educate
the 21st century leaders of this small
Third World nation. We help where we

can. _ Andy Miller ’80

——— Continued from page 8
of time, we didn’t cover as many of the
possibilities with the lottery system as we
would like to. Another thing is dealing
with athletics. The physical education
requirements need to be reviewed and a
policy should be drawn up and carried
out. Whether that is to reorganize the
Physical Ed. department or to have each
student required to finish al his P.E.
requirements by the end of his junior year
is a possibility. The issue of the Noise

Ordinance will definitely come up this.

spring...Readings will be taken and a
town ordinance will be passed. It is the
responsibility of the SGA to ensure that
these noise levels are both fair ‘to the
town, but, more importantly, really fair

to the students. Our social life at -

Davidson is pretty much a minimal thing

anyway, and anything that damages that

would need to be reckoned with. —
D—How would you change the SGA

overall, and how would you change the ©

area you know best? -_

H- 1 would push for standing
committee meetings to have a meeting
once a week i don’t think that’s asking
too much of an elected official. I would
also, possibly, push cutting down the
required membership. Right now, each

’ SGA-member is required to serve on two

committees, but 1 would like to’ see a

person required to stress one committee
and be required to attend their weekly
meetings, andalso be welcome to be on
any other committees. I think that by
requiring attendance the committees
would find that they can get a lot more
done.

J— Not only should the committee
members be required attend meetings
and committees be required to meet once
a week, but also every member of the
Senate will be required to meet with the
President of the SGA and inform him as
to what he has been doing in his
committee and outside of it. Basically a

. touch—in, simply because I feel that we
‘have had a maximum of 50 percent of the

SGA really doing anything in their
committees. Even though it has

-improved in the last couple of years, I
_ think that the SGA can take a much

stronger role, and the only way it is going
to do it is if it gets work from m everybody
_ inside it.

D—What issue would you be willing to
stick your neck out for? ;

J-— Taking, for example, _ the
semester—trimester system. Once the
student government and the President of
the SGA come to an agreement as to just
what is going to be best for the students,

and that is who we represent, then it is
going to be my job to stick out. Any issue

_ which comes to the forefront and which

the President needs to act on, I would
definitely stick my neck out for. That
could be anything you want to talk
about...No matter what the issue, it is
going to be investigated, and whatever I
see as being best for the situation and for
the people I represent, and whatever the
committee and the SGA feels to be the
best thing to do, my neck will be stuck
out. Anything that cois up in the future
needs the President’s strength.

H— I agree, I think that’s his job.
Specifically, I see curriculum, noise
ordinance, physical education policy,

_ and job placement policy. The SGA

President should not only be able to stick
his neck out, but should be willing to do
so. Those things come periodically as

~ problems arise.

J— One good thing about having only
one term in office is that you don’t have
to worry about some people getting mad
at you for sticking your neck out.

D-— I've been struck by the admirable
spirit of cooperation between the two of
you. Why you rather than the other guy?

H-— I don’t think this race is going to
produce a loser as much as a winner. I

~ don’t think ‘there will bea feeling of

defeat on the part of the loser as much as
real admiration and support for the
winner. As far as why me over Tim, this
is for the students to decide whom in their

minds would produce the type of
leadership they want. I think it will. be
more of a personality—type approach
rather than an issue —orientated one. We
are pushing for the same type of things,
and will be supporting each other in the
next year. The style of leadership they
want is something they have to look for.

J— I feel the same way as Chip does. I
feel I am the kind of person who can
execute this job well, and I think Chip is
too. That’s why I hate to run against
Chip, and I’m also glad I’m running
against him. I have to run against him
because we’re good friends and we've
worked together for the past three years.
I feel like we can both do one heck of a
job, partly because we’re capable, and
also because we're going to have each
other’s input.

H-— | feel confident in the fact that if I
lose, the SGA will be in good hands.
That is why we're going into this
campaign super—enthusiastic because
we are going to have a lot of fun meeting
a lot of new students and enjoying each
other’s friendship along the way. I think
it wil-be avery aad and sien coed
~_ contest.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

17
