. potential—a latent excellence or abil-
ity that may or may not be developed.

That word says an awful lot about
the 1981-82 Davidson basketball team.
They are a team of untapped potential.
They’ ve started to get it all together, and
although, baby, they’ve come a long
way, oh baby! they can go so much far-
ther.

While most of us students were off
relaxing at home, the basketball team
stayed in Davidson and worked hard,
and somé .of: the frayed ends finally
started coming together. The results for
the most part were fantastic.

The Citadel

The season didn’t bring happy
greetings to the cats as they visited Cha-
rleston, S. C., home of the Citadel. “It
was our poorest performance for 40
minutes this year. We couldn’t do any-
‘| thing right,” said Coach Bobby Hussey.
The Wildcats executed poorly and

for the most part their decisions were —

Cats on the Roll

Let's Reap the Cats’ Christmas

poor. The only thirig that saved their
dignity was effort.
_ “We gave good effort. Effort alone

~ caused us to be close enough at the end

to have won.”
And as the clock wore down, the
Cats were well within reach of the game

a despite a 39% first half shooting percen-
tage and over twenty turnovers. With.

1:40 left Bulldog center Wells Holland
hit a pair of free throws that became the
difference in the 49-47 contest. David-
son had plenty of time to score but

_ couldn’t.

Duke

..Yes, Davidson, there is a Santa
Claus; and on December 29, he gave the

e Wildcats.a very welcome gift. It was the

first DC victory over an ACC team since
an upset win over Wake Forest in 1979,
and it earned the Cats a trip to the finals
of the Iron. Duke Classic.
“We played well, especially: defen-
sively, said miracle worker. Hoste
\ def

that ended up giving Duke an eight point
advantage at the half, The Blue Devils
padded the lead to 11, but after that it
was. all Davidson. John Carroll, Tom
Franz, and Kenny Wilson all made. key
steals,: and. Wilson: went On the. ram-
page: In the second half he hit on 10.of
12: field attempts and ‘sucked in 10 ca-
roms en route to 24 points. Jamie Hall
came up with three blocks at critical
times to keep Duke off the scoreboard.
‘Then Cliff Tribus took the spotlight.
With 2:16 left, the big j junior connected.
on apair of free throws giving Davidson

a 69-66 lead. Duke battled back to tie.

several times, and with :05 left Blue
Devil'star Vince Taylor hit an incredible
shot to tie the game at 73. After a Wild-
cat time out they worked their last-ditch

effort.’ Rich ‘Wilson completed. the in- —~
’ bounds: to. Carroll who drove the lane,
and dished off to Tribus. Tribus hit the.

18° jumper with no time on the clock.

“Happiest of all was Kenny Wilson, |
chosen to the all-tourney team and who. oo
ae gat ‘in alanine’ Duke osha

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 15January 1982. -

William and Mary

The finale faced Davidson against
former SC foe William and Mary, upset
victors over a surprised Auburn.club.

William and Mary is a very expe-
nenced team with a lot of experience.
They are patient and execute well.
Hence the low-scoring game. Davidson
couldn’t hit the outside shot and thus
couldn’t crack a tight zone defense.

Again the game came down to a last
second shot, but this time no one Could
seem to get it in the hoop as Davidson
blew two shots and a tap. W&M 46, DC
44.

Furman’

The new year brought good fortune
and good play Davidson’s way as they
hosted Furman in the Mausoleum. The
Paladins were chosen second in the pre-
season coaches’ poll, but:in all due fair-
ness to Eddie Holbrook’s team, they’ re

- playing without the talents.of last year’s

Fosh of the Year ,:George Singleton:
“We caught Farman alittle bit flat at
the beginning,” said Hussey. Sound

Wildcat defense dug the Paladin hole
deeper, as the final score was:73-55.

