Italian Opera in English

La Boheme exemplifies the translator’s problem

By STEPHANIE BRUCK ’84

Opera!? Today it is an esoteric interest on par with
breeding orchids or cataloguing dialects, but opera was
once the province of unrefined listeners as well as mus-
ical esthetes. The operatic terrain known by Amer-
icans today generally extends as far as Mel Blanc’s
“Rabbit of Seville” or the “William Tell Overture.”
Those people holding Artists Series tickets Monday
night could extend farther into the field of opera with
the Goldovsky Grand Opera Theatre’s production of
Puccini’s La Bohéme, translated into English. For over
thirty years, Boris Goldovsky, the artistic director, has
been devoted to the restoration of opera as the people’s
entertainment.

Indeed it is a restoration, for Puccini was writing
for a wildly appreciative audience in the nineteenth
century. There is no modern American parallel to the
enthusiasm that Italy had for her opera. Perhaps one
could imagine adolescents impatiently awaiting the
next Star Wars offering, combined with the American
pride of 1945. Opera was an intensely nationalistic en-
tertainment, and its creators were national symbols as

well as respected artists. Their offerings were not di-
rected only at an initiated group of highbrow patrons,
for operas like Puccini’s told stories his Italians could
enjoy and take pride in. They in return adored him and
flocked to the performances.

Considering the original, accessible nature of ope-
ra, one may understand why Goldovsky has translated
La Bohéme. The fact that the original is in Italian im-
mediately renders it of more exclusive, artistic interest.
While the nationalism cannot be duplicated, more pop-
ular appeal is injected into opera when the populace
can understand what is sung, pick up the details, and
catch the jokes. However, like most solutions, transla-
tion causes several new problems for both translator
and audience.

The translator is essentially as responsible as the
author for what the audience will understand, and so,
as music professor James Swisher said, he is tempted
to play creator. A translator always interprets, but he
must find a fine line between coloring and altering the
text. Dr. Swisher also pointed out several technical
headaches in translating lyrics, such as retaining the
poetic form and the rhyme scheme, concurring the
musical accent and the textual emphasis, and avoiding
a difficult note that must be sung with a choking vowel.
For the audience, a translation may be somewhat star-
tling, as English is not usually sung in such a style. The
audience must become accustomed to hearing ordinary
language adapted to ends more musical than discur-
sive. Any translation is acompromise, and this particu-
lar one is perhaps osmewhat melodramatic, but that,
quoting Dr. Swisher, “is a small price to pay” for the
opportunity to hear and appreciate the operatic art that
Italy has contributed to music culture.

By John Lyday ’84

Vi, , ig
tiie!’ ts

By John Lyday 84

~ey

somplete Prescription Service
Cosmetics © Sundries ¢ Greeting Cards

PARKS
REXALL DRUGS

431 N. Main Street © Devideon, N.C.

GIORGIO’S
. INTRODUCES

LATE-NIGHT HAPPY HOUR

EVERY NIGHT
10:00-12:00

$2.25-large pitcher

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT

Folk music 8:00-until
Tuesday-Wednesday

CALL 892-3095

.45-mug

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982 17

By John Lyday °84
