First Step Sports.
Running Shoes
New Balance

Nike

Reebok

Tiger

Shorts
Sub-4

Frank Shorter

Hours:

Closed Mon.-Tues.
Heritage Plaza (Room 104) 3:00-5:00 Wed.-Thurs.
(across from 7-Eleven) 2:00-5:30 Fri.

Please call 892-3200/892-6206

10:00-3:00 Sat.

Professors and Religious Beliefs

How do professors attain balance between faith and reason?

By JIM CROWE’83

“Faith and reason must work to-
gether in mutual respect if Davidson is
to realize and maintain her vision of ex-
cellence in the field of Christian higher
education.”

From Davidson College
Statement of Purpose

The Davidson Statement of Purpose
clearly commits students and teachers to
an integration of faith and reason in the
college community. The actual methods
of applying this principle in the student-
teacher relationship, however, are not
so Clear. The role of the classroom expe-
rience in the student’s spiritual life, in
particular, stands open to interpretation
by individual professors and students
alike. Examining professors’ attitudes
toward their unique roles as profession-
al instructors and as people that influ-
ence personal belief may shed some
light on this issue.

Most professors feel that at least
some element of challenge to personal
belief should be involved in all teach-

ing. Samuel Maloney of the religion de-
partment says, “The goal of the liberal

arts education is to liberate one from un-—

examined dogmas.” He sees the profes-
sor as “a catalyst to a maturing process,
a questioner” and states, “Our job is to
help students analyze issues to see more
clearly, not to indoctrinate.” About the
professor’s use of his own religious be-
liefs, Maloney says, “Personally we can
make. stands, and we do, but I don’t
think our job is to force our opinions on
the student.”

Philosophy professor Robert May-
dole rejects any distinction between
academic and personal learning, say-
ing, “Education should always reach the
individual as a person.” He says that the
role of the educator is “to upset the apple
cart, to make waves, to clear conceptual
cobwebs, to try to get [students] to shed
their prejudice, bias, and ill-founded
beliefs.” In regard to his own teaching,
Maydole comments,“The pursuit of
truth and what that means for the indi-
vidual’s growth as a free, independent,
and valuing agent will be foremost on
my mind.”

English professor Gil Holland also
says, “It is important not to draw a line
between personal and intellectual mat-
ters.” He states, “Intellectual inquiry is
not by nature irreligious.”

While agreeing on the necessity of
challenge, many professors differ in the
pace of their presentations of challenge
to students’ beliefs. Jerry Putnam of the
biology department says, “There’s no
hurry to make these important changes.
I don’t want to pull anything out of the
student’s belief system without assist-
ing them in putting something in its
place.” Putnam describes his goal _in
teaching as “helping students to build a
stable philosophy toward new belief.”
He says that his conservatiave attitude
toward intellectual change reflects a
scepticism toward the zealot, religious
or scientific. He comments, “I don’t
like to induce revolutions, because |
think they just lead to another kind of
radicalism.”

_ William Mahoney of the religion
department also says he leans toward a
cautious approach. “One of the profes-
sor’s jobs is to expose people compas-

Is the Statement of Purpose restrictive?

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

What exactly are the restrictions on
the faculty when applying for a job or te-
nure concerning their religious beliefs?
Do professors feel restricted by the Col-
lege’s Statement of Purpose?

Assistant Dean of Faculty and Vice-
president of Academic Affairs T. C.
Price Zimmermann said that essentially
there were none. What is asked of appli-
cants, he said, is to read the Statement
of Purpose and decide whether they can
work comfortably in a Christian com-
munity with respect for the Christian
tradition of the College.

The Code of Faculty Evaluation
Procedures says in this regard only that

not able to function properly at David-
son, not only does it not benefit the Col-
lege, but it does not benefit the individu-
al. It is question of mutual conven-
ience.”

Paragraph 5, Article IV of the By-

laws of the Trustees states this pretty
clearly: “The President is also autho-
rized to recommend for appointment as
officers and faculty members non-
Christian persons who can work with re-
spect for the Christian tradition even if
they cannot conscientiously join it, and
who can live in harmony with the pur-
pose of the College as set forth in the
Davidson College Constitution.”

As to whether professors feel bur-
dened by the College’s Christian com-

in the process of interviews with depart-
ment chairmen, the VPAA and the Pres-
ident, they “explore further the relation-
ship between the candidate’s religious
position and career aspirations and the
College’s objectives as set forth in the
Statement of Purpose.”

Zimmermann elaborated further,
saying that in essence they want to see if
the goals and aspirations of the faculty

‘and the College can exist together har-

moniously. He said that the College
does not want to hire someone who can-
not get along comfortably in the com-
munity or who does not have respect for
the Christian committment of the Col-
lege. .

Zimmermann added, “If someone is

sionately and gently to new positions
and new things.” He indicates that an
expansion of ideas is central to his
teaching, saying, “I don’t think there’s
ever any danger in trying to understand
someone else. Of course that doesn’t
mean you have to agree with them.”
Mahoney says he welcomes interaction

-with students on all levels. He com-

ments, “Teachers are people and so are
students, so I think that it is fully ap-
propriate to address personal situations
together.”

Philosophy department chairman
Earl MacCormac stresses the need for
professors “to challenge in a compas-
sionate, not paternalistic or condes-
cending, way.” He says, “The primary
role of the professor is to respect the stu-
dent.” In regard to Davidson’s commit-
ment as a Christian community, he fur-
ther states, “Davidson can espouse
Christian belief by having respect for
persons.” MacCormac thinks this re-
spect is critical because, “Universities
and colleges do not indoctrinate. They
allow us to investigate a spirit of free in-

quiry.”

mittment it is hard to say and perhaps is
hard for the professor to say as well.
However, by looking at the different ap-
proaches to teaching that the faculty
have expressed, it seems that their ap-
proaches reflect their own personal phil-
osophies of teaching and are not dog-
matic approaches. The majority of the
professors interviewed advocated a cau-
tious, conservative approach, a fact
which is perhaps more likely a reflec-
tion of the type of professors that David-
son attracts rather than the result of a
paternal hand or an overshadowing in-
stitution. As Dr. Zimmermann pointed
out, “Someone who doesn’t feel com-
fortable at Davidson is not going to want
to teach here.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/ 15 October: 1982 *: |:

8
