Richard Dyer-Bennet‘s Odyssey

- Richard Dyer-Bennet is a musician, folk singer, and
balladeer, and he has found the possibility for a culmi-
nation of his talents and artistic aspirations--the recita-
tion of excerpts of Hamer’s Odyssey, accompanied by
himself on the harp. In the elemental sense, Mr. Dryer-
Bennet says the Odyssey “was meant for the ear, not for
the eyes,” but in the formal sense he speaks in loftier
terms, suggesting that Homer’s work presents a frame-

work on which a performer can-create a memorable ~

ambience of the pertorper, the material, and the au-
dience,

Dryer-Bennet bhgan playing guitar at the age of 15 -

when his family was in Germany, and he continued
playing ‘through his college years at the University of
California. He was familiar with European and Amer-
ican folk music, but he says he had no scholarly or ca-
reer ambitions in music until he was approached by
G.W. Beckman, who heard him playing at a party.
Beckman made Dyer-Bennet aware of the possibility

of a musical caréer, and encouraged him to visit Sven

Scholander,.an ageing Swedish man who had been a le-
gendary self-accompanied singer.

The advice was taken and Richard Dyet-Bennet tra-.

veled from-San Francisco to Stockholm in 1935 to visit
and learn from: Scholander, but the two men had only a
few meetings before the 75 year old Swede was bedrid-
den with an illness from which he never recovered.
Nonetheless, the young musician saw Scholander per-
form, and that experience gave Dyer-Bennet the inspi-
ration and direction that years of technical instruction
and individual searching for a musical goal may not
have given. By his example, Scholander showed the
young man what was possible--he exereised the intang-
ible. gift that surpasses technically superior perfor-
mance and which creates an environment that in-
volves--not simply performs to--the audience. Dyer-
Bennet said that Scholander would speak to you--there
would be motivation for his words and music. Such
gifts are not taught, and Dyer-Bennet returned to the
States having seen the challenge and with the advice
only to perform.

After some further work with Beckman, Dyer-

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

Bennet hit the road, paying dues at places like the Vil-
lage Vanguard in Manhattan when that club was at the
cutting edge of the folk revivial of the early 40’s. This
was followed by a stint as a musical war propagandist,
and then more years of concert touring until he became
associate professor in the Department of Theatre Arts

at the State University of New York/Stonybrook in

1970.

In 1973 he read’ Robert Fitzgerald’s translation of
Homer’s Odyssey, and he was first struck by the imag-
ery and poetic content of the translation and the story.
It was not until 1977 that he seriously prepared a perfor-

‘mance of the Odyssey, and he became so enchanted

with its potential that he applied for and received a
grant from the National Endowment for the Humani-

ties so that he could devote all of his time to the project.
For his performance on Jariuary 12 he did excerpts
from four books of the Odyssey and acccompanied
himself-on a harp. The performance was not well at-
tended, partly due to snow, but I also heard many peo-
ple say that a man reciting Homer seemed a bit too eso-
teric and of narrow interest. Admittedly, that form of
performing is uncommon these days and seems to be a
“scholarly aesthetic” pursuit, but it is of ancient and ac-
tually common origin.
The program was divided in three parts, and for an
encore’ Dyer-Bennet did the “Song of the Sirens”.

"Some familiarity with the Odyssey was necessary to

follow the story because the three parts were not con-
tiguous, although these selections probably do a better
job of giving a story line than ‘any other combination.

‘This problein is unavoidable--time is limited and Mr.
_ Dyer-Bennet doesn’t have it all memorized--and it was

a drawback of the performance. A person could not
come to “hear the Odyssey: a listener needed to appre-
ciate the manner and the form of the presentation. The
poetry of some parts of the Odyssey is strong enough to
stand alone, but Mr. Dyer-Bennet is not simply a read-
er of poetry--he is attempting to do Homer as Homer
might have done it, and Homer's poetry was part of an
epic.

Richard Dyer-Bennet feels that Homer must have
had a gift like that of Sven Scholander for bringing the
spirit of the listener into the performance. I think he
gained a feel for part of that gift despite the problems--
the one I mentioned previously, and the size of Love
Auditorium, which does not lend itself to intimate per-
formances. Those problems made the audience role
more difficult) A. self-accompanied recitation of
Homer is a low-key affair to begin.with, and to truly in-
volve the performer, material, and audience it takes the
effort, or quality, of all three. | agree with Mr. Dyer-
Bennet that the Artists Series performances was not su-
perlative, but for those who could feel like they were
part of the environment it was possible to catch a
glimpse of a form and work that was exalted long ago,
but which has partly died in more recent times.

Tom Pafford *_

SMITH’S
FLOWERS

302 Smith Cirlce
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

THE PERFECT VACATION
Spot FoR SPRING BREAK.
NAKE PLANS NOW. STAY

Re As. GPT nis RSE

