Canoeing in
Wales

Last spring George Strickland took some time off

from Davidson in order to pursue his old friend the tan-

dem closedwater canoe. And in the process he attained .
a notable achievement: he placed nineteenth in ‘the:

world canoeing ‘championships at Bula, Wales.

During spring term last year, George: and hig. :
partner, Rick Hill, trained outside of Washington. At .

the end of May they participated in the US team trials.
the K1 (one man kayak), the C1 (one-man canoe), the

C2 (tandem canoe), and the K1 for women. Attheend
of the spring competition the top 15% of each class. ”

qualifys for the US team trials. which take place every
other year on the last weekend in May. The Savage fiv-

erin Maryland and the Nantahala river in North Caroli-
na were the two locations of last year’s contest. The

trials consist of racing through a slalom course of thirty

1.5 meter wide gates, which are suspended above the :
river. Ifa competitor touches a gate, he is penalized by.

the addition of five seconds to his final time: If acanoe-

ist misses a gate, he is penalized by the addition of fatty.

seconds to his time.

George said, “We thought we had it the second day
of the trials. We were way ahead, but we blew our se-. -

cond run. Someone came from behind to beat us.”

George and his partner made the team on the lastday of a

the trials to complete a squad of sixteen boats (4K 1's,

4 Cl’s, 4:C2’s, and 4 K1’s). “Tt was much too excit- :

ing,” said George.

The team then began training for the World Cham- :

pionships. which were held in Bala, .Wales. After -

Taming in Canada and in the Eastern United States, he

FOR Bis IN. s Bewll }
_AceEPTING RESUMES

George sa ptie the ere er Tour competitive Pisses: : obese

George Strickland and Rick Hill wee ‘witty ¥ white:

scan flew io. wales cecil. 12: Géssige oid bs
was overwhelmed at the World shar ip. “It was
a humbling experience,’ ” he remembers. “We: went
‘over there thinking that we were ready for the Euro-
> peans, but is was a new experience being thrown into
| international competition.” He “continued, “The
|. French were the best, and the Germans, Checks, and
~ British had good teams. The French won 17 medals
while the Americans won 15 medals.” George said,
“Rick and I were the fourth fastest boat in our class but
we hit too many poles. That gave us 30 seconds in'pe-
nalties and pushed us: back to 19th place.” They also
had another problem when George’s seat broke in the
midst of the competition. But George and his partner
“came back from ::Wales with the distinction of being
- nicknamed the “roller Derby pair,” because they held
the record for rolling (that is, turning over and flipping
_ back over). George said that this summer he is going to
_ compete in single paddling. If he does well, he may
take off two terms from Davidson next year so that he

ee

