___— Feature

South Africans Visit

African National Congress members show the truth behind a myth

By JEFF DEMPSEY ’83

Apartheid. Does this word mean anything to you?
Last Thursday five members of the African National
Congress, all exiles living in the U.S., came to David-
son to talk about what apartheid means to South Afri-
can blacks. Throughout the day the group spoke with
students in various meetings about the issues of the si-
tuation in South Africa and then presented in the 900
Room a play entitled “For Better Not For Worse,” writ-
ten by one of the actors. Founded in 1912, the African
National Congress (A.N.C.) is the only South African
liberation organization that accepts members of all ra-
ces. Banned inside South Africa, the A.N.C. has offi-
ces and representatives in 28 countries worldwide as
well as observer status in the United Nations and recog-
nition from the Organization of African Unity.

Tandi Gcabashe headed the group on campus last
week. Aside from coordinating the ANC in the south-
ern U.S., she organizes Southern African Programs for
the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker
organization, in Atlanta where junior Debby Williams
met her this summer. Tandi’s father, Albert John Lu-
thuli, won the 1961 Nobel Peace Prize for his leader-
ship of non-violent protests against the South African
government in the late "50s and early ’60s. The group’s
other members included: a professor in psychology at
State University, Stony Brook, N. Y.; Themba Ntinga,

South Africa is tremendously
unportant economically and
strategicall ly, controlling an
immense amount of mineral
reserves as well as the sea

lanes around the tip of Africa

a member of the ANC Observer Mission to the U.N.
and a student of journalism; and Selaelo Maredi and
Seth Sibanda who have toured all over the U.S. and
Canada presenting plays which Selaelo, a prize-win-
ning playwright, has written.

In South Africa 72 percent of the population is black
Africans, 16 percent whites, 9 percent coloureds, and 3
percent Indians. Under the Land Acts of 1912 and
1936, 87 percent of the country’s land has been re-
served for whites, 13 percent for the blacks (the Ban-
tustan). Africans may not own land in white areas nor
remain in white areas without a permit. Indians and
Coloureds must live in segregated areas in the territory
reserved for whites. The Bantustan offering little pos-
sibility for employment, the vast majority of black men
must leave their families to go to white South Africa to
find work.

While white living standards are among the world’s
highest, blacks live a difficult existence. Black labor is
forbidden to have labor unions; the average white
worker makes 10 to 18 times more than the average
black worker performing the same job; no black
worker by law can hold a posiiton higher than any
white worker in a company. By way of example, Tandi
cited the gold miners strike in Johannesburg this past
year in which some gold miners refused to return to the

eussH Wg hq

mines in a non-violent strike. The government reacted
by sending police who forced the miners back to work
at gunpoint with 13 people being killed and 200 injured
in the struggle. This action, however, led to a widening
of the strike at which the company then fired all the
strikers, being able to do so because of the availability
of surplus labor among blacks. Having lost their work
permits, the strikers could only return to the Bantustan
without much hope for employment there.

This incident illustrates all too well the efficency of
the South African government. Since blacks must have
a passbook even to enter white South Africa, the secur-
ity police is able to keep a close watch on any black
who might try to become an organizer of resistance. A
particularly effective method against the outspoken,
moreover, has been banning orders, an order by which
a person becomes confined to his residence during cer-
tain periods of the day, cannot speak with more than
one other person at a time, and lives under general sur-
veillance for 5 years. Such a banning order was im-
posed on Tandi’s father at one time.

The educational system of South Africa reflects the
situation as a whole in the country. If one is black, se-
condary education is optional and the student bears the
expense, while for whites secondary education is com-
pulsory and free. In addition the government allots on
the order of $12 for every white student to $1 for every
black student in education. Indeed, one of the primary
objectives of the current speaking/drama tour by these
members of the ANC is to raise money for a school in
Tanzania where Bantu children have been brought
since 1977 to be educated. Thus, the fee put up by the
coalition of campus groups — the Black Student Coali-
tion, the Speakers Committee, and the Chapel Com-
mittee — to bring these people to campus went directly
to the fund for the Solomon Mahlangu College in Tan-
zania. A major sponsor was Amnesty Internation
which brought the ANC to campus as part of their pro-
gram to educate the student body and cuimmunity
about human rights violations.

In the face of such obvious oppression, one must ask,
why does the United States support the South African
regime? South Africa is tremendously important eco-
nomically and strategically, controlling an immense

S

‘amount of mineral reserves as well as the sea lanes
around the tip of Africa. A government of leftist lean-
ings has always been the fear of the U.S., and most of-
ficials would consider that situation simply unaccepta-
ble. The U.S. also has invested hgavily in South Africa
with more than 300 U.S. companies having operations
there. Thus, the policy of administrations has consist-
ently been an emphasis on maintaining the status quo.

Acknowledging the importance of South Africa to
the West, the question becomes what to do about the
presence of U.S. corporations there: whether to work
through them for internal reforms or to pressure them
through boycotts to pull out of South Africa. The ANC
supports the latter technique, which is called divest-
ment because internal reforms by American corpora-
tions are severely limited by the apartheid legal sys-
tem. Through the American Friends Service Commit-
tee Tandi is currently working on divestment cam-
paigns directd toward getting institutions, local go-
vernments, and even state governments in the U.S. to
boycott corporations that do business in South Africa.
Frustrated with attempts to work through corporations,
Tandi feels that people should be made aware that they
are indeed supporting injustice in South Africa through
these businesses. She points out that many companies
go to South Africa because the oppressive system
means cheap labor and thus bigger profits.

Within South Africa the ANC carries on under-

The average white worker
makes ten to eighteen times
more than the average black

worker performing
the same job

ground operations, including the practice of sabotage
bombings. Violence has been a part of their philsophy
since the early 1960’s, though when Tandi’s father
won the Peace Prize, the Nobel Committee praised him
specifically for his strict-adherence to non-violent pro-
test. The words of Dr. Dube reflect an attitude that
leaves many people feeling uneasy, but an attitude that
is nonetheless reality: “We always wish to use non-vio-
lent measures, and we always do use non-violent meas-
ures first. But, in a violent situation, non-violent meas-
ures are sometimes not enough.”

Apartheid finally exists not as a system but as an atti-
tude. The division between black and white in South
Africa is taken to extremes well beyond the level nec-
essary for purely economic manipulation. When a
black American visits South Africa, he must be de-
clared an Honorary white to move freely in the coun-
try. A black man can be imprisoned for eating with <
white at the white man’s house. It is as if there must be
no chinks in the facade for fear that Whites might dis-
cover the truth behind the myth of racial superiority.
Perhaps Selaelo’s story about his own experiences in
theatre illustrate the thinking behind apartheid. He led
experimental theatre groups that became inreasingly
political until he had to leave the country. The reason,
he said, that the government allowed the theatre to be
uncensored for so long is that they felt blacks were in-

capable of using drama for anything more than enter-
tainment.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October'1982.. 7
