. Science: degree. Peter Knox (class. of.
SO Ean ot Fore ot KS es

tor of Law degre. .

-.. "The: College* will also. present the
: ‘Algeron . Sidney: Sullivan: Award:-for -
“iinselfish service without due reward.”

David iReik oe ee

onaOAL eI

The Student Conduct. Council! and
the Office of the- Dean of Students wish
to remind members of this community
‘that stealing, whether it be away from
Davidson. or on-campus, is an Honor
Code violation. Furthermore, ‘stealing
road signs is a federal offense; this act is
irresponsible at best and life-threatening
at worst. Because this practice has been
viewed rather cavalierly in the past, stu-
dents will be given until Wednesday,
May 12, 1982, ‘to return-or to deposit
any stolen road signs in their possession
to the campus security station.~ After
that time, students will be charged with.
a violation of the Honor Code for steal-
ing road signs or for possession of stolen
signs; other.students are honor-bound to
report violators.

| International

The. Union International Committee

will sponsor an. International ‘Festival
from 2:00 P.M. ‘until after 5:00 on Sat-
urday, May 8, between the Union and“
the Martin Chemistry Building. The
festivities will iriclude a’soccer tourtia-
ment, a yard sale, and a chance to sam-
ple food from twelve: different coun-

tries, according to Union International
Committee Chairman Melis Nicolaides
(°83) from:Cyprus.

The festival’s purpose is “to make
the students’ of Davidson. acquainted
with the international. students and their
cultures,” Melis said:"“It is ‘a good op-.
portunity forall of the foreign'students
to: Srneupoeie netstat her alec:

yids Aina: = sdeioas doaniien svi:
“American students are involved, Melis
said. They: will represent their-tespec-
tive: countries with: food, posters, ‘and
, other examples of t their cultures. The In-:
ternational. Committee . ‘has... received ©
- $300 from the Union Board for Spring
Term ‘and: is: spending $20° for each’
qoanty, be anid. Ser uaks <i shote
‘served. ales §

SB

‘The soccer tournament has the

theme of a World Cup. Each four-man.

team will register in the name of a coun-
try. The half-hour long’ games will be
played in front of the Union, and a regis-
tration fee of 50¢ per player will be used
to buy a prize. ‘Teams can register at the
Union Desk or during the festival, “ev-

_ en two minutes before they play,” ‘Melis

": Mike Goode is in charge of the yard

. sale andthe Union will get ten ‘percent.

of” the © Melis ‘continued.
Members of the, International Commit-
tee. include © Beth ‘ Gerken, »- Sissy
McCamy,. Helen Thorpe, and Chris
Tiernan.

The. WDAV radio station will ad-
vertise the international festival to try to
attract people. from the town, Melis
said. The Bahamas, China, Egypt, Eng-
land, France, Germany, Greece, India,
Ireland, Mexico, Pakistan, and Spain
will be represented.

Davidson |
Hosts NCSA

international

music program

Davidson College ‘will host the first

“annual: residency of: the’ International

Music: Program at the North Carolina

‘ Schiool of the Arts from 24 June through

“9 July, culminating in a series of five’
chamber orchestra concerts on the Da- *
vidson College campus.

~ ““Bavidson College is'very pleased to °

be able to make this kind of cultural of-

’ fering available to the Charlotte com-

munity,” said Dr. Samuel R. Spencer
Jr., . Davidson. College _ president.
“We’ re looking forward to this very ap-
propriate association with the School of
the Arts.”

The. 26 ‘students participating: in: the -
“NCSA International Music Program will

be housed in. dormitoriés at. Davidson
College. About one-third of the. imp mu-

‘ase music students. aan eiaurepenerien:

and major music schools throughout the
U.S.

Concerts will be performed in Hodson
Hall.on 27 June, and 3-8 July ‘with NCSA. .
"faculty, . artists. Stephen: ‘Ships. and’ -
, in , Eraut-... .
Bpeclcbagree enya) pm .
eof OFr- ©

George. ‘Trautwein,

10:00
“Broken

" “All we are doing is making some-

. thing Official that has already been hiap-.

pening,” Religion Professor Max Polley.
says is.the reason for the appearsiice'of
10:00 classes in next.year’s schedule.

Mandatory chapel once occupied:
the hour from 10:00 to 11:00. Whenthat
tradition faded away, organizations ‘and
committees saw the free hour as the per-
fect meeting time. Students saw it as a
good break between classes.

However, as Profesor Polley points
out, “It’s anextremely valuable time for
teaching,” too useful for many profes-
sors to resist when scheduling TBA
courses. The P.E. department in partic-
ular plans many classes in the middle.of
the morning. . .

Diana Bohrer 85

Continued rom page 1

community.” Last spring. the “faculty —
passed a resolution asking the Trustees
to dissolve all Giscrimination based on
Sex.

In keeping. with Davidson's 5 s desire for
a diverse student body, Dr. Griffith said —

the Trustees have agreed to commit the

College to. meeting the demonstrated
financial needs of all accepted: appli-
cants for this year, despite p | stu-
dent aid-cuts. ‘Dr, Griffith said he

Davidson ‘will be able to continue to of- .
~ fer. “aid- blind” admissions’ in. future

years. “I think to abandon aid-blind | pol-

_icy would go against what this institu-

tiont has stood for for a long time,” he
said. .
He added that he plans to start'a student ©
letter-writing campaign to put pressure
on. congressmen: ‘to, continue student:
financial aid programs. 2
Davidson is also trying to create a
more diverse student body by: attracting .

- applicants from new areas. Dr. Griffith

and Ms. Pierce said ‘that although’ Da

-vidson-will continue to draw mostly stu-~

dents form the Carolinas, the southern
and mid-Atlantic states, the admissions’
staff concentrates on some new areas as
well. This year, they have worked hard-
phere lan pid

Ms. said that the shaping of the
ee a into a diverse | group begins —

fs, tee Daeslons Comma sis

Sr Siicantns fae Shc oppbaion
“cir a'isae hom eats Wil rere
comments. Each. evaluator considers
every - application: j and

. fates. it- before’ comparing his with the

others. - Admissions: Counselor Dick
- Jones said that ratings from seven to ten
generally. indicate that the evaluator
deems:the applicant worthy of accep-
tance, but. he added that last year 1300
of the 1700 applicants recieved ratings
high enough to be accepted. In deciding
which 680 of the 1300 acceptable appli-
cants to accept, the committee worked
toward building a diverse class.
Dr. Griffith said that in evaluating
an application, evaluators measure the
applicants’ academic. performance by
the difficulty: of courses the applicant

has selected and by his class rank, Eval-
uators, judge academic potential by stan-
dardized test scores, such as-SAT scores,

ACT scores, and achievement test

__ Scores. They judge the applicant's moti-

vation ‘to reach his potential by essays

and recommendations.

In assessing the applicant’s charac-

_ ter, the evaluator considers such activi-
‘ties as community, school, church lead-
ership, athletics, ‘and work history. The
evaluators give special consideration to
applications in, many:cases. Sons and
- dauightérs of alumni receive special con-
sideration; ' though Dr. Griffith says,
“not! at the espense of the student body. ”
Students. who: come from. lower socio-
‘econdmti¢. levels might be given special
consideration because, Dr.’ Griffith
- said, “The variable that correlates most
highly with SAF scores:is income.” He
also says that some applicants are limit-
‘ed: by. their school’'system: “It may ‘be
that the applicant has taken the best
courses available, but his school did ‘not
offer AP: courses, foreign ‘language
“ gourses, andthe like.”

The admissions staff recruits appli-
“cants’ by sending ‘letters to applicants
» they: pare rivneph through. the fier
and by csealing ‘and Micehag semi semi-
nars. for high school counsellors, ‘Ms.
Pierce said that the. staff Spends much

"time travelling from Si through

‘hadin the past; ~~ the end “of December. uae staff:

member is re

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday7 May-1982_—
