ATC Allotting Next ©
Year's Budget

The Activities Tax Council (ATC)
met Wednesday to hear budget requests
from the organizations’ which receive
their funding from the council. They are
expected to announce their final appro-
vals sometime in the next few days.

Desnite requests from. the David-
sonian, ‘Quips & Cranks, Hobart Park,
SGA and other organizations for budget
increases next year, Business Manager
Bob Currie said that the total amount of
allocations will not increase. ,

The Activities Tax is paid by stu-
dents in the form of a $45 fee in their tui-

tion, and this fee has not gone up since '

last year. Therefore, there will not be
any more money this year to distribute
among the organizations, according to
Currie.

There will be some changes in the
distribution of funds, however. Two or-

Editor: Stewart Cauley

Executive Editor: Brian Butler’
News Editor: John Richards
Assistant News Editor: David Resnik
|} Associate News Editor: Jeff Mann

Sports Editor: Steven Soud >

ganizations previously funded by the
ATC will not receive any money this
year. The Women’s Center will become

a Union committee next year, ‘and the-

student carrier current radio station,
WDSR, is no longer in operation. These
two organizations combined received
approximately $1750 last year.
Davidsonian editor Stewart Cauley
is requesting $6,000 next year, a $3000
increase over the paper’s 1981-82.

‘budget. “Last year’s budget would carry

us through the end of March,” said Cau-
ley, “We also need $1000 for equip-

ment; we don’t have any cameras right —

now.” Cauley also noted that weekly
newpapers at colleges the same size as
Davidson have higher budgets. Mid-
dlebury’s newspaper runs on a a budget of
$30,000 a year.

The- SGA also receives funding

‘DAVIDSONIAN

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

- Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador,

John Lusk ,’ ‘James Rozzelle

Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John
Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter Gulyn,
Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise, Lorelei Keif,

Jeff Hamilton, Matt Merrill

Foreign Correspondent: Andy Miller

Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss”

form the ATC. President Tim Johnston
said that this years proposal was for
$400 more than. last year, up from

$5900 to $6300, but he added that after —

talking-to the Council he did not expect
to get the full amount. He cited an ex-
panded program next year as the reason
for the increase. “We're planning two
rather large career symposiums next
year instead of one,” Johnston said.
“We’re also planning a number of stu-
dent/faculty ' socials, and two trustee
dinners instead of one.’

Increased printing costs have put a
particular strain-on the college’s publi-
cations. Hobart Park editor Dave Banks
said that this year’s second issue will be
considerably smaller than the first be-
cause of lack of funds. He said that he
turned away about 60% of his submis-
sions and that next year (unless funding

is increased), he will have to turn away
as much as 70%, “The only way to cut
expenses is to cut pages, and that means
that only a handful of people can be rep-
resented,” he said. His proposal was for
$3650 as opposed to $3000 last year.

Quips & Cranks has also requested
more money for the coming year. Co-
editor Jim Reese said that increased
printing costs, plus the need for office
supplies and better facilities has driven
up their needs considerably. He added
that this year’s book will be similar in
size and scope to last years but is costing
them more. They are also asking for a
salary for the editors. The proposed
budget for this year was $27,400 as op-
posed to approximately $19,000 last
year, according to Reese.

Jeff Holland ‘84

The final article in John Richard‘s series on develop-
ment will appear next week.

S A icaites Karis Hi . June 16, New LSAT: Begin to improve
Spinions Editor: Danny Armistead Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein your writing skills for the new essay
z ey: section.

oe lendar Editor: Susan Graves New Blood: Ellen ;

June 23 GMAT: Register now for June
Seminars. Receive our Math Refresher

Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
text by return mail.

mno bathnipsiion iy published Fridays during the schoo!
war ty the ouederte of Daviduon College. or ly
_ respondence to: Devidsonion, Box 218, Nc

Photo Editor: Elizabeth Etkin naa art ie

Call now: 800-243-4767

tions cost $10 per year, Advertising rates aveilable on f \
request. Second class postege no. USPS 149.300 1.

‘Photography Staff: Randy Stroud, Kelly. SUEKTOCTE.
» Anderson Scott, Mack Snell

- _ __DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982 oe moar
