Pinatas atk: Cena tin
luggage compartment of the Z-man’s vintage Volks-

wagen squareback, Thad the rivile
i rcresent, it floated like an iride

Ii a ih tober eg A an nce ie Gy

contrast between its brilliant edge, ‘whose glow spread
to the farther comers of its sphere, and

the rich blackness of space surroutiding it. This de-:

scription can be'extended metaphorically to cover the
several styles with which the Police have teased us on

their four albums. In each of their distictly separate
phases, their music ‘has derived its effect from an inter-
play. between wliat is stated and, just as importantly,

what if left unsaid. A dark and spacious sound, their -
music excites us through the tension created by this .

" contrast between bright regions of musial light and the
black spaces in between. Having seen the Police at the
Fox Theatre last fall’ transform this complex musical
structure into an exciting ‘show of danceable rock
which nonetheless retained its crystalline form, I was
intrigues to see how they would perform the songs of
their latest album, Ghosts'in the Machine, which fills
in’ the spaces between the instruments with horn and
keyboard lines while sontehow, only. heightening the
contrast inherent in their arrangements.

A hurried rush from the parking lot to the Coliseum
gates anda quick glance at the’ T-shirt table seeking
gifts. for friends back home (sorry, no larges) left us
breathless and expectant. The ‘appearance of the

night’s warmup band, the Go-Gos, and up and coming,’
all-female group capable of demanding the price of ad-

mission themselves, certainly fulfilled: our expecta-

tions. Theirs was a rollicking, straightforward set, well _

received by the crowd. But, as can be expected in a
band, just beginning to define itself as an act, the Go-
Gos occassionally displayed a lack. of self-assured

stage presence and performed their energetic numbers _

with a genial sloppiness.
The Go-Gos en a perfect complement, visu-

sliy tod iduically, to the Police. Theit five members,
crammed even closer together by the Police's stage

‘equipment, filled the stage to overflowing, in contrast

to the spaciousifess ‘which the same stage afforded the

‘three-member Police. In addition, the simple muscu-
‘arity ‘of thie Go-Gos’ songs provided a nice foil to the

complexities’ of the Police. All such comparisons
aside, ‘the Go-Gos” set (and well-deserved encore) was
exciting and fun, and the crowd react enthusiactically

to such ‘as “This Town,” “Automatic, ” “Skid
Marks On } Heart,” and their hit,Our Lips are
Sealed.” ts

. Not to be outdone, the Police raised the level of ex- .

citement immediately as they” opened with their ‘two

best-known songs “Message in’a Bottle” and “Every —

Little Thinig She Does Is Magic.” We immediately not-
ed the presence of a rudimentary horn section (two sax-
ophonists and a flugelhornist/trumpeter) off to one side

which served as a simple solution to the problem posed —

by the more complex arrangements of their current al-
bum: These horns‘ I found to be occassionally intru-
sive, as in their third number, “When the World Is Fall-
ing Down (You Make the Best. of What's Still

“Around).” For the most part, however, these additional

musicians only.added strength to the sound the band
was able to produce, and their clearly-enjoying-them-

, Selves, Motown choreograpy heightened the spectacle.

>. Still, we all came to see theband. The Police’s
small mei
Copelane

‘was perhaps the least arresting visually while

at the slime time being absolutely crucial musically; his |

nonstop, flailing-away-yet-controlled drumming pro-
viding a’ thythmic tapestry on which the other two

members laid down a sonic overlay of even greater in-
tricacy. The bassist and singer, Sting, added to this
thythmic base and captivated the audiencxe with his
energetic stage presence and his engagement of the
crowd i in several chorus singalongs. The rapport he es-
tablished was so complete that, even with the band off-
stage on the completion of their set, the audience burst

~ similarities in sound of

’ azines as the guitar stylist of the future,

. complement Sting’s vocal more by hint8 th

é

Pip

al
“s

spotaneously into a singing of one of the group’s re-
peated vocal motifs. The entire show was marked by

continuity through the use of such’ Ser $ ie these
motifs (nonsense syllable like Bevan h

‘songs themselves, cer is
this similarity is a result of the guitar ‘styl e.
Summers, who has been spoken recently.

~

mains content to fill in the space betw
drums with chordal figures and with n vi

in through
direct statement. ‘This style was apparent throughout
the ‘concert as Summers displayed his virtuousity in the
Eric Clapton-Jimmy Page sense on only a few songs,
such as “Bed’s Too Big Without You” and “Bring on
the Night.” For the most part, however, he filled the

Coliseum with airy, distorted sounds which fully ex-

ploited Sting’s bass lines harmonically and Copeland’ s
drumming rhythmically. =

The Police’s set amiably’ combined songs from
their new album‘and those from the second and third al-
bums (Regatta de Blanc and Zenyatta Mondatta). The
tunes from. their harding-rocking first .album (Outlan-
dos D’ Amour) were reserved for their two encores and
brought the show to a most satisfying close. Reflecting
on the concert as we headed back to our littléisalnd of
decorum, decided that the Police.had succeeded.
They had succeeded in coveying the greater complexi-
ties of their newer material (through the use’ of horns

*and such technological avant-gardisms ‘as guitar syn-

thesizers and pedalboards), they had: succeeded in
translating the music of their albums into a live form
without rendering them lifeless, and above all they had
succeeded in creating in the crowd the rock and roll re-
sponse. of enthusiasm and barely controlled exuber-
ance. This last is, of course, the only reason to go toa

"rock concert, and Tuesday night’s Police concert was

certainly worth the trip.
By Jeff Hamilton ‘82

i. r fat ()) | }
i 14 i bil | if]

A i L hi, OR. ee Te 5 > A si ‘ i a?
x

;  Wiilvnveat’ sauce,
. salad with choice of
aber & home baked

350.n0

breads" $

(please ne alphas, +8 ti |
NOW SERVING LUNCH

‘fe | MON.-FRI 11:30-2:00, DINNER 5

Tonsure Ine.

MAIN ST... CORNELIUS, N.C. .

892-1 satel

-DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982
