Coatinued from page 12

No. But there certainly are needs for women to
congregate socially and on a daily basis, especially
considering the type of foods women enjoy.

What are the strongest and weakest points of —

the Davidson fraternity system?
The fraternities give a contact base for students and

a sense of community (if not fraternity) outside the
dorm and classroom.

A certain Openness.

I fosters a certain degree of exclusiveness. In gen-
eral, I’m inclined to think all those practices are bad,
that is, the. impulse to think one.is:made better by the
extent to which one:can exclude others,

It provides an opportunity for people to elect a cer-
tain type of experience, being apart of a society which
may be quasi-setret:

Tradition, mottoes, ‘secret handshakes, all princi-
ples of exclusion, are the things which people want,
obviously.

Things: to. be said against it are the kind of values

that are celebrated.

The fraternity members seem to exhibit more dedi-
cation than those who eat at eating houses.

The oral encouragement’ aspect of self-selection
(and its flipside—oral discoufagement) recreates the
very problems which self-selection was designed to
avoid. And it does so with an extra edge because it
makes for hypocrisy. It:generates the sense that there is
some criterion for superiority. I don’t like that kind of
social system.

The most positive aspect is the inter-generational
bridge which the fraternities form. .

By Andy Wilson '84

RioN NuUCLEARWEAD

Reonty a WAe

Star es

Record reviews

Continued from page 5

area of the country. “Fall is a crazy
time. Oct. ober is a peak time for vis-
itors and also the peak travelling north,”
she said.

The staff only gives admissions in-
terviews at the College, and all appli-
cants are encouraged to visit for an in-
terview. Dr. Griffith said the staff con-
ducts about 3000 interviews each year.

Although the staff spends time tra-

_ velling in the fall, they also have to con-
sider and decide on early decision appli-
cants. in the last two years the College

‘has accepted 85-90 early decision appli-

cants. Mr. Jones:and Ms. Pierce said
there is no fixed-percentage of the class
that the ‘Admissions’ Committee sets
aside for early decision acceptance.

12

xraham Parker

Another Grey Area

“Another Grey Area” is the perfect ti- -

for Attention” to more upbeaty tunes

tle for this latest product of Graham
Parker’s poetic but confused mind.
The subject of every song is his rela-
tionship with that mysterious, female

“You” who “hits the spot” one mo-

ment and makes him feel like a “big
fat zero” the next. Parker seems to
find himself caught in that noncom-
mittal “grey area” betwen love and
hate, betweeen seriousness and bitter
sarcasm.

_ Musically, the album. is noncom-
mittal too. Without the rumour, who
helped make his “Squeezing out
Sparks” and “Up Escalator” near bril-
liant. successes, Parker seems to be
struggling to find a new sound for a
new band. Unfortunately, as soon as
he seems to be moving toward some-
thing new with songs like “Thankless
Task” and “No More Excuses,” he

slips into what sounds like an attempt

to recreate the sound of “The Runout”
with songs like “Temporary Beauty.”

The addition of female background |

vocals, saxophone and flute on vari-
ous cuts lends a bit of welcome diver-
sity and adds to the newer sound. Al-
so, there is a nice variation in tempo
from slower songs such as “Crying

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982

like “You Hit the Spot.”

_ The lyrics are rather typically plain-
tive and ironic. On side one is “No
More Excuses;” he sings with great
conviction, “Hey, no more excuses,
will make them enough . . . It’s time
to get tough.” This reflects the gener-
ally optimistic tone of the'album. Un-
fortunately, he slips’ into a less con-
fident stance in tunes like “Big Fat
Zero” where he calls himself that very
thing fourteen times in 2'4 minutes.
This fluctuation in tone. does not
damage the album in the least. Quite

-to the contrary, it makes the album

typically and quyite uniquely Gra-

ham: -Parker’s own. Caught in

“Another Grey ° Area,” Parker

reflects upon his: state through this

music and comes to the conclusion

that he should “Fear Not” because

“It’s Gonna End.” The album is not.

his best, and it could be disappoint-_
ing after the brilliance of “Squeez-

ing Out Sparks” and the charisma of

“Up Escalator.” However, this is’
certainly no failure and is well worth

an investment.

- Pam Hawkins

