William Buckley Lectures in hove,
J ulian Bond on His Way a

Conservative author, editor, and
lecturer William F. Buckley lectured in
Love Auditorium on Wednesday, April
17 to an audience of approximately
1000 people. His topic. was “Reflection
on Contemporary Conceptions,” fol-
lowed by a short question-and-answer
session and a reception. Julian Bond, a
prominent southern black politician,
will discuss “The Political Outlook for
the ’80’s” at 8 P.M. on Monday, April
26, in Love Auditorium. ..

According to an official College
news release, Buckley was sponsored
by the Union Speakers Committee.
Speakers Committee Chairman Sher-

man Allen (’83) said that the “vast ma-

jority” of funds to. pay for Buckley’s vis-

it have been provided by the Shelby

Cullom Davis Foundation. The Founda-
tion is based in New York City and pro-
vides grants to public policy groups, in-
stitutions of higher education, and busi-

‘ness. The foundation seems to emphas-
ize conservative free-enterprise.

“Only about 2000 dollars of stu-
dents’ money is being spent” on Buck-
ley’s engagemen

’ lége Union Director C. Shaw Smith said
that Buckley’s agent quoted his fee as
being approximately 7000 dollars.

Buckley’s 1 1/2-hour lecture
stressed personal freedom and private
enterprise. He said, “Government is or-
ganically unsuited to effect economic
progress,” and saw a creeping alliance

t, Sherman said. Col--

between “big business and big govern-
ment.” He viewed. the recent raising of
the investment tax credit for corpora-
tions and lowering of the capital gains
tax very positively, the ‘situation by
100%, but noted that Japan and Ger-

- many have no capital gains tax. .

_Buckley drew an analogy between.
President Kennedy’s ““‘Distresed Areas .

Act,” which provided aid to economi-
cally depressed areas. “so. that people
could continue to live where they were
living and continue semi-employment,”
and the federal bailout of Chrysler Cor-

‘poration, “so that people could continue

to make unsold cars.”

Buckley touched upon a broad range -

of topics and punctuated his speech with
numerous bit of humor and quotation.

He said that politicians ask “What do
you want?,” and that the choice was be-

tween economic security: and progress. —

Buckley deplored the “rich fixation phe-
nomenon” he said has been imported
from England, describing it by quoting

‘Anthony Burgess: “a masochistic plea-

sure of harassing the rich.” He blasted

' Walter Mondale’s “egalitarian. fren-

zies,” and called upon Americans: to
count their lessing. He mentioned:.the

dangers of reductionism citing Emanuel

Kant’s description of marriage s “mutu-
al monopolization of the genitalia” as an
example.

Sherman Allen, who. introduced

Buckley, said that he stopped the ques-

tion and answer sess
tions after Buckley
do so. There were awkward breaks be-
fore the first and third questions because
the questions were not coming quickly
enough, he said.

Davidson philosophy professor Dr.

aftet five. ques-

Maydole asked Buckley what principle
‘he would cite to defend taxation or the

draft. “Philosophers try to dletinguish
between appearance and reality. Mr

Buckley’s answer did not do: this.. I
don’t think he really answered the ques-
tion.” Buckley mentioned the principle
that the safety of the public is para-

~ mount.

Julian Bond’s appearance is spon-

sored by the Black Student Coalition,

the Union Speakers Committee, and is a
part of Martin Luther King Lecture ser-
ies. Sophomore Harriet Gaston, the new
chairman of the BSC Speaker’s Com-
mittee, said that the mere five-day dif-

- ference in the two speakers’ engage-

ments “was just coincidence—it just
happened that way. He is a black politi-
cian whose name we felt most people
would have heard.” She said that the
BSC originally wanted Bond to speak at

Davidson, but. that. the Martin Luther

King Lecture Series is paying for most
of the cost. The Series was established
-by: a grant from College. President

Spencer. to bring a prominent black
speaker to the campus each year, Sher-

_ man said.

ioned for him to.

Julian Bond is a Georgia state sena-
tor. He-was elected to the Georgia
House of. Repreentatives in 1965, but
was barred from taking his seat because
of his strong anti- Vietnam War posture
for three years.

‘Bond was catapulted into national
prominence at the 1968 Democratic Na-
tional Convention, when the Georgia
Loyal National Democratic Delegation,
which he co-chaired, successfully un-
seated the regular delegation appointed
by. then-Governor. Lester Maddox.
Bond was the first black ever nominated

for vice-president. He has spearheaded
grass-roots campaigns for greater mi-.
nority participation in the political pro-
cess, and was recently named to Time
Magazine’ s “200 Leaders” list.

He also hosted the Saturday Night
Live television show in 1977 and played
the part of a civil rights lawyer in the
movie Greased Lightning.

‘William Buckley is the author of
more than 20 books, the most recent of
which is entitled. Marco’ Polo If You
Can. A Yale graduate; he is editor and
founder of the National Review maga-
zine, and ran for mayor of New York
City in 1965 on. the Conservative Party
ticket. He writes a nationally syndicated
newspaper column, “On the Right,”

j WIRED SPpemes thees tinge 2 week

Pete Gulyn ’8

Gift Giving . iat.

Who are Davidson’ s donors? The

school receives its greatest financial
support from alumni. They provided,

for instancé, 59% of the 1981 Living

Endowment, contributing a total of
$594,789. Davidson also counts on sup-
port from Corporations, , whose members
often consist of Davidson graduates.

These corporations may match an alum-
ni gift, or. may. contribute to Davidson
individually. Director of Corporate Re-

~ lations Mike Daisley explained major .

aspects of the Corporate Campaign. “It
goes much beyond the “Old Boy’. sys-

tem,” he said. Davidson studies alumni, -

especially those who may. preside on
a ce ent The college

~

targets these as possible donors, and

then attempts to present with gift giving -

as a sound investment with ramifica-
tions beyond direct benefit to the com-
panies themselves.

Corporations which have donated
funds to’ Davidson include IBM, R.J.
Reynolds Industries, Standard Oil, Cit-

ibank, Hewlett Packard, and Xerox. .
Corporate gifts comprised 20%

($206,654) of the Living Endowment

alone in 1981, Corporate gifts are in-

vested, and, especially in times of re=
cession, play an increasingly important
role. “Fortunately at, Davidson-we deal
from a position of eng bi Daisley
said.

Other Davidson donors include par-.
ents, friends, foundations, and
churches. Davidson shares with Duke,
Furman, and Johnson C. Smith Univer-

sities the distinction of a yearly grant -
from the J.B. Duke Endowment. Da- _

vidson. has been entitled since 1924 to

5% of the income from the Duke En-

dowment. The fund provides approxi-

_mately the equivalent of what the col-

lege receives annually from its own en-

~ dowment, Melton said. Friends of the 7

college may decide to donate real estate,

books, or art to the college instead of -

money. There is, for instance, a Tho-
mas Sully original hanging in the Rare

. Book Room of the library, there are new

houses at the Lake Campus, and over
$300,000 worth of prints and paintings
which Davidson acquired from donors.
Last year, Davidson received at
Jeast $4,000,000 from endowment in-
come and gifts. In general, the figures
climb yearly. How does Davidson com-

pare to other schools when it comes to.

being “heavily endowed”? “Every-.

“ thing’s. relative and I wouldn’t say

*heavily,’” Melton admitted. Davidson
could always use more to keep tuition
costs down and to maintain a firmly bal-
anced budgét. However, “among liberal
arts colleges, we’re fairly well taken
care of,” he added.

Elizabeth Smiley °84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982
