National PIRGs
Face

Conservatives

CPS-“The case is not settled,”
strsses Evelyn Liebman, head of the
Rutgers-Camden campus Pulbic Inter-
est Research Group (PIRG). She strenu-
ously refuses to concede defeat to what
she sees as an organized, national con-
servative attack on PIRGs, the Ralph
Nader-founded network of college-
based “consumer advocate groups.”

But Liebman and the PIRGs at least
lost the latest battle in August when a
federal appeals court said PIRG’s fun-
draising methods—Rutgers students au-
tomatically gave $2.50 of their fees to
the PIRG unless they specifically asked
for a refund—raised serious constitu-
tional questions, and asked lower court
to re-try the case.

A decision against the “checkoff
system” of fundraising would “hav real
significance for PIRGs around the coun-
try,” predicts Ed Lloyd, executive di-
rector of New Jersey PIRG.

Rutgers attorney Gregory Reilly
agrees “other schools would want to be
guided by the court’s decision” if it goes
against the checkoff system.

Joseph Marshall, staff attorney for
the Mid-Atlantic Legal Foundation,
part of a nationwide network of conser-
vative legal groups that frequently chal-
lenge liberal causes in court, speculates
Rutgers could have to refund as much as
$1.5 million to current and past students
if it loses.

“T imagine that administrators out in
Wisconsin or elsewhere would have to
look at that,” Marshall notes. “I’d think
that would stop a lot of PIRG organiz-

”

ing.

Jenny Barnhardt of PIRG

78, HONS UOSJapUuy Aq

Such talk convinces Liebman that
his is part of an organized conservative
assault on PIRGs.

“We feel [the lawsuit] was more
than just the three students who sued,”
Liebman says.

Three Rutgers students sued in Sep-
tember, 1979, soon after the Camden
chapter refused to fund one of the stu-
dents’ proposed “pro-life study.” They
charged the university made contribut-
ing to PIRG a virtual requirement for
registration even though the group was
primarily “ideological,” not education-
al.

A lower court ruled against the stu-
dents last summer, but the 3rd Circuit
Court of Appeals in August said the
lower court failed to establish the facts
in the case before ruling. A new trial
will be scheduled soon.

Larcenies Up
This Year

By Angelique Foster ’86

More larcenies have occurred at Da-
vidson College from May to October of
this year than during any other year in a
5-month period of time. According to
Public Safety Department Director J. G.
Hughes, the rise in the number of stolen
goods is due to two main incident-
s—one during the summer and one in
early October.

“Based on what we had taken during
the summer,” said Hughes, referring to
the student possessions taken from sum-
mer storage, “[the number of larcenies]
reported is higher than last year’s.”
Eleven persons returned to school after
summer vacation to find their posses-
sions stolen.

The other major case of larceny was
committed by two juveniles from the
Dayidson area. Apparently, two minors
entered unlocked rooms while students
attended the Davidson-James Madison
football game on Saturday, 2 October.

These juveniles, whose names must
remain unmentioned, supposedly used
the money to visit their grandmother in
Florida, where they were apprehended
and are now spending time in a deten-
tion center. The amount stolen totaled
$711.50. The students who reporteds a
loss that weekend are Eric J. Kaufman
whose losses totaled $28.00; John Rup-
penthal who reported $30.00 worth of
missing goods; Leslie McIver, $18.00;
Roger Gore, $43.00; and Robert G.
Spaugh, who missed $150.00 worth of
possessions.

Also victims of the theft are lee

News Shorts

Neisler who reported losses of $62.00;

Martin Sekerke reporting losses of

$60.00; Kevin T. Kirk who found stolen
$130.00 of possessions; Stanford Klin-
ger, $26.50 of goods; Carl P. Hobson
who had $35.00 of goods stolen; and
Griff Elder, $17.00. The Wildeat Club
and athe Housing Office also reported
losses that weekend that totaled $40.00
and $60.00 respectively.

“Other than these two incidents,”
said Hughes,“the number of reports
have been very low.” Twelve others
have reported stolen objects since the
beginning of the school year.

What are the possible preventive
measures? “Students need to lock their
doors,” stressed Hughes. “The Honor
System is good, but it doesn’t pertain to
outsiders—they could care less.”

In addition to locking room doors,
students should be alert to strangers
wandering the halls. Hughes said that
all janitors are recognizeable by David-
son identification cards that should be
clipped to their univorms. “If a student
sees a suspicious stranger that doesn’t
have an I.D. visible, he should give us a
call.”

Cel Sale Soon

By Duncan Fraser ’86

Davidson College will host a special
exhibit and sale of more than 250 ani-
mation cel paintings Monday and
Tuesdsay, 18-19 October, from 9 a.m.
until 6 p.m. in the College Union Gall-
ery.

Animation cel paintings, called
“cels,” are the paintings actually filmed
in making animated cartoons. Each
character is painted by hand on a clear
sheet of acetate, placed against a back-
ground, and photographed one by one to
produce a reel of motion picture film.
This exhibit/sale highlights the work of

Warner Brothers’ Chuck Jones, creator
of Wile E. Coyote and the Roadrunner,
and Fritz Freleng, creator of Tweety and
Sylvester and Yosemite Sam. Also in-
cluded in the exhibit are cel paintings
from numerous Walt Disney films.

Disney art work and other cels are
fast becoming popular investments.
Some cels from teli late 1930s were re-
cently auctioned by Sotheby Parke
Bernet in New York sold for as much as
$3000.000, although it is still possible
to obtain first-rate examples of anima-
tion art for less than $50; in some cases
for les than $25.

The Davidson exhibit was authenti-
cated by Gallery Lainzberg of Cedar
Rapids, Iowa and a representative of
Lainzberg will be on hand to answer
questions.

Noise Ordinance
Quiets Davidson

By PAULETTE KURANI ’86

The Town of Davidson Noise Ordi-
nance, which was discussed at length
and then drafted and approved last
spring, finally went into effect 1 Sep-
tember 1982. The new ordinance hopes
to “deter many more disturbing inci-
dents,” says Mayor Nancy MacCor-
mac.

The noise issue was brought up last
year when thirty exasperated residents
from Davidson filed complaints after a
loud Chairman of the Board band party
at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house. This
event was only the precipitating factor,
however.

Community members have had to
put up with extreme noise from David-
son College students’ functions as well
as neighbors’ parties for several years.
“I had trouble sleeping just the other
night because of horrendous noise after
midnight,” claimed a resident of Ter-
race Acres, “I'd hate to live closer to the
campus.”

On the other hand, a woman who
lives next door to the SPE house re-
marked that the noise does not disturb
her much now. “The students have been
cooperative and turn down the music
when we ask them to,” she said. “In
fact, the neighbors’ rooster bothers me
more than they do.”

Nevertheless, a Noise Committee
was established, consisting of a Student
Representative, Dean of Students Will
Terry, two members of the Town
Board, and two local residents. The two
off-campus fraternity presidents, David

