Moreland
Hogan’s
Briarpatch

The Miscellany is neat. Have you ever looked at it
and wondered why? It is a neat little book because
Moreland Hogan did not follow the right-hand road to
“Oz” via big business as do so many college graduates.
Rather he opted for the left-hand road riding a magnifi-
cent white obsession named craftsmanship. Crafts-
manship, by the way, is an amorphous abstract de-
manding the small business medium which many of us
conveniently ignore, perhaps for its lack of financial
security. We are all the better for Professor Hogan’s
decision, even if merely for the briefly felt though un-
perceived pleasure of the neat binding pressing into our
opalms, even if merely for the seen but unnoticed de-
light of the clean, black letters blinking coyly from
Creamy pages.

If one saunters down Depot Street and peers through
the windows of the Briarpatch Press, one will notice a
great many black mechanical monstrosities peering
right back. Boxes of potential literary delights crouch
about the floor, playfully imitating the heavier printing
organs scattered around the shop. Older machinery,
Professor Hogan mentioins fondly, is suitable for the
small editioins which his shop publishes. His press, for
example, is a 1963 Heidleberg, a “Mercedes” of a
press. Other hoary elders loafing about the shop in-
clude a 1927 page folder, a rather ancient-looking
binding-sewer, and.an 1892 paper cutter. A modern
typesetting machine, film processor, page-folder, and
pasting machine complete the corps of engines.

The Briarpatch Press uniqueness resides in part in its
size. It is basically a two-person operation manged by
Hogan and his wife. The number of copies produced in
any one edition ranges from 50 to 1000, and the books
are primarily distributed through the mail according to
the Briarpatch’s ever-growing mailing list. As well as
being a small business, the Press provides an avenue
of publication for local authors as it caters primarily to

books of local history and poetry. Briarpatch is dear to '

the literary life of Davidson College as it has published
Pocahontas and the Drunken Waiter and The Ghost in
the Dog Trot, books of poetry by Dr. J. Gill Holland

. and Dr..J. S. Winkler.respectively, as well as Dr. Mary
Beaty’s Davidson: A History of the Town from 1835
until 1937_and a forthcoming new edition of Dr.

Chalmers Davidson’s The Plantation World Around
Davidson. Briarpatch publications also include the Da-
vidson Miscellany; a book by Ovid Piere, The Planta-
tion, illustrated by Professor Herb Jackson; and a col-
lection of Professor Hogan’s own work called The, Vil-
lage Green.

In broader perspective Briarpatch Press services a 7

~ large community with its publication of the biannual
Southern Poetry Review and Briarpatch, asmall maga-
zine boasting local history and. literature as regular

Along with Moreland and Priscilla Hogan, three Da-
vidson-affiliated employees help part-time to run Bri-
arpatch Press. Mrs. Zhenia Moroson, wife of music
professor Vlad Moroson, typesets, a job which takes
from a few days to two months depending on the length
of the book. Two Davidson students Bret Logan and
Carol Impara work there as well. Briarpatch’s limited
size and work force render the shop all the more excep-
tional as it has, only in the past year, acquired the ca-
pacity to produce a finished product from manuscript
form without the work ever leaving the shop itself.

A great deal of experience supports Hogan’s Briar-

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

patch endeavors. A native of New Orleans, he graduat-
ed from Rice University. His history between that time
and the present includes posts as professor at Davidson
from 1963 through 1965 and at Wofford College, edi-

tor at UNC Press, managing editor at University of

Georgia Press, and editor-in-chief at UNC Press. Since
1972 Hogan has been in business typesetting, printing,
and publishing. Briarpatch Press actually emerged in
Chapel Hill in 1974 with the publication of An Original
Sun, a book of poetry by Eugene Platt. Two years later
Briarpatch arrived in Davidson where ‘Hogan “became
“permanent visiting lecturer”, teaching and enjoying

6 | 3 DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982

