Editorial

“The primary ayy ofthe college exends beyond he
bounds of denomination to the Christian

Community
pels snip er cena ae aaa

serve the
ee re

7

‘Soinething is happening in Poland, but first let me
tell you what: happened in South Carolina over Christ-

mas break.

; Just after Christmas I visited some friends in a col-
lege town in South Carolina, where I used to live. The
sevond night that I was there I started getting nostalgic
and decided to drop by the College Union to look up a
few people I hadn’t seen in some time. Unfortunately

the College Union was closed, but I didn’t know that. I _

meandered up to the Union, as I iad done all during
high school, and walked through the door when I heard
a. deep Sheriff Loboxtype noise that said "Boy, come
over here RIGHT NO’ :

‘Well, evidently. it’s nots a spond thing to walk i into a
closed college union in South Carolina, no matter how
good your intentions are. For the next forty-five min-
utes, two campus cops,two town cops and one 300 Ib.

security guard proceeded to run me through the clean- ~

ers, They made me repeat my story five times (“Yes
sir, I’m a Davidson College soptiomore. . . Yes sir, I

just drove up from Alabama. . . etc.”), searched me ©

and my. car and asked questions like “Why is your hair’
like that? Why do you want to see your friends?”
and“Why are you dressed like that 7” (Somehow I
don’t think they would care much about an honor
code). In the end they let me go. Ihadn’t done anything
more than wear odd clothes.and look suspicious, I sup-

pose, I didn’t enjoy those forty-five minutes and even .
‘though it was funny in retrospect, it wasn’t much fun at: :
the time. It made me think about people who might be.»

arrested for little more than wearing unusual clothing,
taking walks at night or going to visit friends. The next
day when I saw a picture of tanks on the streets of Po-
land in the morning newspaper, the lesson those cops
in South Carolina taught me really struck home. Some-
_ how it wasn’t just another news story, but something
that.made me feel sick and helpless at the same time.
Perhaps I just over reacted ‘to.a simple mistake by a
couple of well intentioned Southern cops, but it’ s
worth thinking about.
That’ ’s what happened in South Carolina. Now Po- :
land. Are the Polish people just over reacting to a mis-
take by their. government? A government that does
what should be good for its people doesn’t just make a

mistake in declaring martial law. A government for the

people, what Poland claims: to have, wouldn’t. do
something like that would it? Well, it's worth thinking
about...

E2lveiwheon ies thisivapee thers are thee open Jeners.
and a reprint df the last copy of SOLIDARITY WEEK-
LY to be published before ‘the military occupation:
(The headline reads FLAG AND DOOR. It refers to
door and a blood-spattered flag on: which workers car-
ried the body of a 17-year-old student; killed in the
Gdansk uprising of December 1970.) The letters and

newspaper are from Poland and are reprinted by per-

mission of the Committee in. Support of Solidarity-Pol-
ish Workers Task Force. They. didn’t cost the David-

sonian a penny.and, in fact; anyone is free to. ”

them, “a oiraiieuainastigs uae
‘ \iek

a ett Th

Seehwes

DAVIDSONIAN / / i vay 8 :sancies 4 1982

To the Editor, .

The Christmas Gift Fund went

very well. Over thirty student solicitors

raised $3,659.20. The gift has been for-

warded to the St. Croix Hospital of Haiti

through. the Medical Benevolence
Foundation.

"Thanks;

Charlie Summers

Chaplain -

To the Editor: ,

_ [just received Christmas packages
wrapped in the Davidsonian ‘of October
30, 1981. As an old alumnus, I read it at
first with interest and: then i increasing

_ dismay. I find it incredible that mature —

college-age young men and women in a
college renown for its high educational
standards and end product could find
anything interesting, literary, stimulat-

‘ing or educational in the part:l read
which must have been the ‘ ipe” sec- .

tion. Cartoons. even! Professor Lilly
would turn over in his grave! ;

The ultimate was the bit, of point-
less prose in David Bank’s “On the

Campus.” You must really have been _
hard up for something to print. The writ-

ing therein, like the first meal the author
offered to cook, is offal! (Either spelling

"or either meaning equally pertains:)

Lastly, regarding the. article of the

same page (copy enclosed) pertaining to
sexist policy at Davidson as manifested

by‘a2:1 male/ female ratio, I have only
one question. .““‘Who is complaining?” If

it "s the girls, perhaps they belong in San

Fransciso or Greenich Village. For the

good of the South, hopefully most Da- _

vidson girls will proclaim, “Viva la Ra-
tio!” Would that we had been so lucky in
my day when the ratio was about 300: 1.
“Ah so! Times change!
Kenneth H. Barber

an “anreconstructed, ‘straight; male.
chauvinist .
from the Class of 1946 *

4 * £ 8

-Last_week after a good deal of-

thought and discussion the members of
the men’s swimming team decided that

they would be unable to compete during
the 1981-82 season: This decision is
based on problems arising from current
Davidson athletic policies.

In the past the team has been able
to.compete quite successfully, compil-
ing a 31-11 record over the last three
years. Many of these-wins were over
scholarship-funded teams. This success
can be attributed to the fact that the team
has been able to train together over the
Christmas break in NCAA sanctioned
facilities which Davidson. cannot pro-
vide. This training trip has been the
backbone. of the season providing cru-
cial. overdistance training. As of this
year Davidson will no longer fund any
athletic training trips. The. majority of
the members on the team do not have ac-
cess to facilities at home, and the only

alternative is to train at Davidson. This
* is not possible due to the amount of time

that would be spent in an improperly
ventilated and filtered pool. The poor
quality of the facilities also Tequires the
team to haye home meets in Charlotte
at ‘ considerable cost.

These conditions are an overall re-
flection of the conditions i in athletics at
Davidson. Between 1970-71 and 1980-
81 the number of Varsity sports has in-.

creased from 10 to.18, and the number

of students has increased from approxi-
mately 1000 to 1300-with a proportion-
ate increase in the number of students
participating in intramural sports. Yet
over the same“period athletic expendi-
tures have decreased from 8.8% to
7.1% of the total college expenditutes.
These figures suggest an overall lack of
commitment to athletics at Davidson.

_ The members of the swimming

_ team would rather not compete at all

than to compete at a level below their
true abilities. We feel that all athletes at
Davidson wish to compete at their full

. potential. It is unfortunate that David-

son does not provide'an enviroment in
which this is Jinan

__ The 1981-82 Switnming Team
Mike Schremmer, ‘Rick Williams,

Co-Captains
