Change in the Bank

meget ML ROE Ne rere sxe oe rsers a
R wt are tN

These ‘days. visitors to Davidson's

Piedmont Bank have met with a sur-—

prise: Piedmont Bank’s Davidson office

is undergoing remodeling. What custo- -

mers see, however, is only a part of a
month-long project. “It's more than just
cosmetic work,” says Buddy Caldwell,
the branch manager.

The changes at the bank will be sub-
stantial. They are rearranging offices,
adding new “privacy booths,” and im-
proving office traffic patterns. Mr.
Caldwell points to three major reasons
for the changes, “It needed sprucing up,
we wanted more room, and we needed
more privacy.”

The interior familiar to most students
dated from. 1971. The new. changes
promise better lighting, a.more attrac-

tive atmosphere, and improved teller fa-

cilities. The tellers, according to Cindy
Knott, are looking forward to new
drawers and better filing facilities.
The bank began sometime in the early —

DEPOSITED WITH

‘PIEDMONT BANK

ANO TRUST COMPANY

1900’s as Davidson Town Bank and has
grown over the years to occupy three ad-
joining buildings. In more recent times,
the bank has grown from a $3 million
branch to an office with $15 million in
accounts. Davidson’s facility has the
distinction of being the original office
and main branch of Piedmont Bank and

Trust Company. The headquarters,
however, have moved to Charlotte.
The bank staff will be working around
(_/ the construction for another two weeks:
or so. The lobby should be finished next
week. Piedmont’s contractor, the Hipp
Construction Company of Charlotte,
has been doing ‘much of its work on
nights and weekends to avoid interfer-
ing with the bank’s operations. In the
meantime, Mr. Caldwell says, “We -
hope the inconvenience will be as small
as possible. The changes will mean bet-
ter services for everyone.”

Jeb Benedict ’84

United Arts Fund Drive

This month the Ain & Science Coun-
cil of Charlotte opens. its annual Art
Fund Drive to the general public. The
goal of the Council is $1,005,000 in
contributions from the public and busi-
nesses of Mecklenburg County. This
year’s fund drive is truly. a United Arts
effort; individual members will not seek
support on their own.

The Arts and Science Council serves
forty eight cultural organizations in
Charlotte, coordinates activities, and
provides operating and special project
funding for organizations such as Spirit
Square, Dance Charlotte, The Light
Factory, the Oratorio Singers, and the
Charlotte Symphony. The Council also
sponsors special projects from time to
time.

Davidson College is an affiliate

member; the Council has granted funds

to support Davidson's. upsoming prod-
uction of Raliah & at

| Admissions, and Dr. David Kaylor of -
- the Religion Department are coordina-

tors of the the Davidson area drive this
year. Cannisters. for donations will be
located at various places around campus
throughout February, and posters’ will

- advertise the cause.

This. year’s slogan is “Give to the
Charlotte Arts Collection.”

by Alexander Macbeth, ’85-

nadiGhanuns aed

& February 1962

