Features

0

God, Man, and the World

Dr. Balasubramanian instills respect for Hinduism

By JOHN KROTCHKO ’83

The ritual had begun. Swoosh—swoosh—swoosh
went the chalk, tracing the timeless, elemental triangle
fropm which all the great questions spring: God, Man,
World. Dr. R. Balasubramanian warmed to his topic
quickly. That triangle and a wealth of categories and
names and analogies were soon to be manifest, the
elucidation of the primary scriptures of Hinduism, the
Upanishads.

I had seen his triangle appear once before on a black-
board at the University of Madras, at the Dr. S. Rad-
hakrishnan Institute for the Advanced Study of Philos-
ophy where Balasubramanian has spent most of his
twenty-five years as a professor of philosophy. The
University is situated near the center of Madras, a co-
lorful, magnificent, filthy and altogether intense city
oif some five million people in South India . . . It is a
city where the ancient culture of the Indian subconti-

nent meets modern life and Western ways and w. orks §

out daily existence in all of its confounding means and
extremes.

Now the triangle appeared ona Davidson blackboard
at the ten o'clock meeting of Religion 173, bringing to
mind that community of people halfway around the
world; Humes all over again, but from an entirely dif-
fernt perspective. How did they get to be so different?
Balasubramanian turned with noticeable relish to the
class and to the classical Upanishads, to the pot whose
essence is clay, to man whose essence is soul, to soul
which exists apart from ultimate reality—God—be-
cause of man’s attachment to desire and self and the il-
lusion of the World. No triangle really, sort of. Deep
empirical questioning brought the forest thinkers to
these conclusions around 600 BC, about the same time
thinkers in other parts of the world were setting their
own cultural wheels in motion.

“He was more like a minister preaching,” comment-
ed Kathy Kooken that night outside E.H. Little. “He
really felt what he was saying!” I couldn’t have agreed
more. Dr. Balasubramanian temporarily sequestered
from a lecture tour wi | Colgate University by his col-
league Dr. I. Job Thomas of our South Asian Studies
Department, had come, to Davidson to talk mythology
with a Metaphor and M, ing class, interpret moderni-
zation in India at a Union gathering and lecture on a
concept in the primary scriptures to our Hinduism
class. A dominasnt of his talks seems to have
concerned the essential integrity of the primary scrip-
tures and the importance of protecting their meaning

“Davidson’s Non-Western Focus” is a p hrase that
has popped up on poseters more than once already this
term. The events it announced represent a growing
awareness between faculty and students at Davidson of
the importance of gaining a more comprehensive world
view. Humes is not enough anymore. It becomes in-
creasingly apparent that we will never really solve the
problems of our world until we learn to sensitively in-
corporate more than one cultural perspective into our

rae way of thinking about things. That isn’t always easy,

from the vagaries of modern anthropological analysis
or the social abuses of later ages that derive their au-
thority from them. It was not surprising, therefore, that
Balasubramanian seemed the most relaxed and free
from the structured formalities when he was alone with
his triangle in front of our class. What are the essential
ideas aboutr Gad, Man, World that underlie a culture?
We were all there to find out, and while we had dis-
cussed the basic Upanishadsfor over a week with Dr.
Mahony, there was something unmistakably unique
Balasubramanian’s flowing delivery.

If yu were to visit his home in Madras you would
discover a typical middle-class Indian family, and in
one room you would find their little shrine of Ganesha,
the elephant-headed god: a framed picture, an image,
flowers, incense, oil lamp. Ganesha is very popular
with the people—he removes obstacles and brings

prosperity. Ganesha anda Madras and all tahe under- _

currents of ancient Indian culture comprise the daily
reality of Balasubramnian and his family, just like
America and a whole four thousand. years of Judeo-
Christian cultural heritage is the almost-unconsciously
assumed reality of our daily lives. it was the communi-
cation of that intimate, pervasive relationship between
the professor and his subject that was so unique. Those
who caught it, like Kathy Kooken, came away with

something special, glimpsed perhaps the current, per-
somial reality of Religion 173.

as anyone in Religion 173 can tell you, even if you’ve
spent a semester in India, as I can tell you. But just real-
izing this is a leap of enlightenment.

It happens gradually. I asked Kathy Kooken if she
finds it difficult to shift cultural perspectives in Hindu-
ism Class every day.

“Oh no, not really,” she said.

“Why is that?” I asked. “Because of your trip to
Spain last year?”

“No,” she replied. “Because I’m a junior. I know
how to do that stuff now.”

* THE DAVIDSONIAN/S October 1982
