Booze Brothers “Got No ine

Jim Hawk and
Jim Troutman

Our car broke down this week and we were forced
to set out on foot to find a hot new spot to report on. We
went down to the Peregrine House, but the place was
packed and we couldn’t get a seat. We walked on
away, only to be surprised by a sparkle of lights in a
large building ahead. They mesmerized us and drew us
in.

We entered this bar and.much ta.our dismay were
met with the harsh glare of a mirrored ball twirling on
the ceiling; we glared back and walked warily in. What
kind of place was this, we wondered, and were we wel-
come here? We had tackled the Anchor Tavern and The
Pub before, but this seemed.a new matter altogether.

The beer prices consoled us immediately, howev-
er, and we even found they served Heineken on draft.
Something was amiss though; and we took note. Was it

the music? Was it the decor? Was it the,atmosphere? -

Unfortunately, it was allthese things. The place wasn’t
very full, and judging from: the tunes it was no wonder.
Such favorites as “Burn Rubber” by the Gap Band and
“Stepping Out” by Kool and the Gang blared out of a
pair of beautiful Klip-sch speakers. What a waste! »
Were we at Queens? Salem? Converse? No, the

girls were too hard to pick up here. This could be. only .

one place . . . the legendary 900 Room. A large sign

_ had been placed above the stage which read WARNER
HALL. But we knew Warner Hall and wondered why
would anyone throw a disco for him? He can’t even do
the “Bus Stop”$!

There had to be some reason for this sign, but we
couldn’t figure it out. Sam Spencer boogied by. We
asked him about it, but he replied, “I don’t know, I on-
ly come here for the cheap beer.” A girl, with aralarm-
ing number of add-a-beads overheard us and informed
us that it was the name of the new girl’s eating house.
We inquired if the name was actually Warner Hall or
Warmer Hall Hall or what? And we wondered if we
should call these girls Warner Hallies or plain Hallies
or Warnerettes?

Next Week Booze Brothers Review Domestic Beer

We started thinking about how screwy this place
was getting. Like why are there now two Belk dorms?
Why does Will Terry put his arm around everyone and
smile? And what are all these bricks for? Who the
hell’s in charge around here anyway—Bill Bolding?!

Our train of thought was broken by a nauseous ren-
dention of “Brick House” so we headed to the SAE
house only to be totally disgusted by an even more
nauseous live version of “Brick House” anda hodge-

podge of clothes with colors not found in nature. Thank
God!

If anyone has seen booze bro. at large, Jimmy
Hawk, please let us know. He’s still armed with Bud
and very drunk, so be careful.

Disco Update: Who'cares?
Next week: Are nuclear wars winnable? An in-depth
look with the Booze Brothers.

coma ae

$3.50

7. ALL YOU CAN EAT.
SPAGHETTI, PIZZA, SALAD
BROAD ST. MOORESVILLE,NC

| | <I) \ Ge OF - PIZZA
J SAT. NIGHT SPECIAL:

ir

Complete
Cosmetics ° Sundries ° Greeting
:

"REXALL DRUGS

“Serving Davideon For Siateen Years”
131 N. Mein Street © Davideon, N.C.

Servi

a

| DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 April 1982

17
