Living un borrowed.credit worked for a while..1-
was: jn Poland several ‘times in 1973 and 1974..Qne. .

could see:more goods on the-shelves, more money be-

ing spent; real wage increases were phenomenal over

the time-10 to 20 percent a year:

But after several years things began to catch up.
Borrowed money was bringing in the goods and yet by
about 1978 the creditors wanted to be paid back. Prod-
uction had not matched the increase in goods.. It had
simply been spent on consumer non-durables and other
things. When the cfeditors began to demand repay-

‘ment, the Polish government had to begin to squeeze
somewhere. It tried to squeeze by limiting what it was

spending on foreign food which then took food off the -

shelf which got the workers out in the street. We have
seen the results since then.

Now the West of course is much more reluctant to
lend Poland funds. The inability of the regime fo pay
off some of its enormous debt has made Poland a class-
ic debtor country. What is going to happen to this debt
if the crackdown goes on or certainly if the Soviets in-

tervene? A Polish default could send incredible shock- -

waves throughout Western financial institutions.
Western Interests in Poland

The United States is now telling Poland that it is se-
riously concerned about the Polish crisis. But one
would have to think: Is a cessation of aid going to affect
the military?-No, it will affect the average Polish citi-
zen. Is that the intention of our policy? In terms of put-
ting clamps down on credit, the United States could
probably try to do it and find it very difficult. In Amer-
ican terms, most of the credit has come from private fi-
nancial institutions. It could be very difficult to control
the flow of credit.

Certainly the banks themselves have become reluctant

to lend more, so our economic and financial policy in
this area would be very fuzzy.

For the United States, the Polish crisis is not only
an economic and strategic issue, but a political issue as
well. A considerable number of Polish-Americans

have become rather vocal in their opposition to the-

crackdown. To ignore them would be a political liabili-

ty. ;

In Western Europe it would be a slightly different
case. There, much of the foreign debt that Poland owes
goes to both private banking and governments, particu-
larly in. West Germany where there is a’ good bit of
both. Certainly the level of foreign debt owed and its
importance in the financial system and economy is
much greater in Europe than in the United States.

Will the USSR Intervene?

It is my personal view that the Soviets would do ev-
erything possible not to intervene; to me they have al-
ready shown this over the last 18. months. The things
the Poles have done so far are totally unprecedented, if
one compares them to Czechoslovakia in 1968 or even
Hungary i ina different way in 1956:and after. The So-
viets’ willingness to tolerate fundamental changes ina

society shich seems to presage fundamental qnange | is...

incredible. |
The cost: of intervention weal bee enormous. In

‘military terms, partly because of active resistance on .
. the part of the Polish military, but more so, I think, be-

cause of wholesale desertion in the military ranks, with
atms, leading:to urban guerr
proportions, and because of the ability of a few trained

people to bring the economy, not only of Poland, butof

cent Sa ee The main oil pipeline

fighting of unknown -

which supplies Eastern Europe from the Soviet Union

runs through Poland. A-couple of people with muni-
tions knowledge could put that out of action for a long
time. Part of the main electric grid for all of Eastern Eu-

_fope from the western Soviet rivers also runs through

Poland. ‘In an urban industrialized society, ‘which Po-

land is, the ability of civil disobedience, workstop-. .

pages, sabotage i in the factories, or shoddy work, to

“create economic chaos ‘s almost incalculable: At the

same time of course the Soviets are invovived with a
little campaign dowa in Afghanistan whichis of'a mag-
nitude that I do not think they anticipated nor have they

yet decided how to solve. Those two campaigns going:

on coincidentally would be a real deterrent to Sovieti in-
tervention-
In economic terms, what would the Soviet tiaion

do with a country of 35 million people if that country

has had its own problems straightening out its’ eco-

nomy? At the same time the Soviets have severe eco-
nomic problems of their own in agriculture, in trying to
industrialize-not to mention an arms race with the

United States.
The Future for Solidarity

I think one of the apparent objectives of thé current

crackdown is:to drive a wedge between the militants

_ and the moderates, if indeed it is true that the military is

hosting Walesa and others while having actively arrest-
ed the militants 'in an attempt to support the moderates
ta some extent. The Polish governnient will perhaps al-

"low reformists to negotiate back’some things. The re-

gime maypermit.: moderate Solidarity leaders to act as
fepresentatiyes of Solidarity. ‘The role of a new Solid- ;

_ arity will be limited. The Polish regime may, for exam-

plé, take back'the work-free Saturdays and reduce the
open right to strike t6 workers’ actions for a particular

reason. If the regime succeeds in driving a wedge be-

tween the militants and moderates, that would lead, I

think, ‘to. some: fundamental ‘changes in the workers’

movements, perhaps leading to generation gaps even

Pia workers in their twenties: Saiad those in their
es

a “Jeszcze Polska nie zgnela... " (Poland i is not yet
t.. )

By Dr. Louis L. Ortmayer

Transcribed by Dan Turk ‘84

-DAVIOSONIAN / Friday 18 January 1982

