New Professors on Campus

C. Shaw Smith

This fall-C. Shaw Smith begins a two-year appoint-
ment as the new associate professor of Art History.
Smith is the son of Union Director C. Shaw Smith Sr.,
and his appointment to the faculty marks his return to
the Davidson:community after a fifteen-year absence.

Smith finds; that fe, and not the college, has
changed; ‘I’m so,different . . . I’m seeing a whole new
side of it. I enjoy the discussion, the intimacy, the fo-
cus on particular events. It’s a participatory place.”

Smith, who attended UNC-Chapel Hill as a More-
head scholar,,.received his master’s and doctoral de-
grees in Art History. His interests are diverse. They
span from athletics and “crummy” novels to “Dela-
croix and Romantic Landscape Painting,” the subject
of his recently completed disseration.

A bachelor, Smith’s first love is France, where he
spent two years studying and travelling. In May of
1980 Smith was involved in a “sequel to history,” serv-
ing as a translator/reader for Pope John Paul II’s mass
for the people in France. Someday he hopes to live and
teach permanently in France, a country in his eyes with
only one negation—‘“They don’t have any pro football
teams.”

~ Mgj. David C. Hill

Maj. David C. Hill, assistant professor of military
science, is a member oif the National Guard called to
duty for a single tour with Davidson’s Army ROTC
unit.

Hill, who has served for nine years with the police
department in Columbus, GA, holds bachelor’s and
master’s degrees in criminal justice from Columbus
College. While on active duty 1957-72, he was com-
missioned as an infantry officer and served at Fort Ben-
ning and in Vietnam.

S. Shepard Jones, retired Burton Craig professor of
political science at UNC-Chapel Hill, will spend the
fall term at Davidson as Covington Distinguished Pro-
fessor of Political Science. A Middle East specialist,
Jones served as a special assistant to the U.S. delega-

y

tion to the United Nations conference in San Francisco
in 1945, and as public affairs officer for the Near East-
ern, South Asian and African Affairs Bureau. He also
served tours at the embassies in Pakistan and Amman.

A graduate of Georgetown College in Kentucky,
Jones holds the master’s degree from the University of
Kentucky. He did additional gradute work at Harvard
and at the Geneva School of International Relations,
and earned his doctorate at Oxford University, where
he studied as a Rhodes Scholar.

Karl A. Plank

This September Professor Karl Plank made a long-
anticipated transition from eight years of post-graduate
work in Religion at Vanderbuilt University to David-
son College. He received his undergraduate degree
from Hanover College and believes strongly in the im-
portance of of a liberal arts education and the role of
religion in this study. “The study of any discipline
should be interdisciplinary. A liberal arts education
should promote a sense of common inquiry throughout
many different but related disciplines.” Plank is partic-
ularly excited about teaching a course on Jewish and
Christian parables later in the year.

Professor Plank feels that a sense of camaraderie
has developed among the small group of new teachers
at Davidson. “We try to help each other out with any
problem or questions we encounter in what has been a
new and very wonderful experience.” At Vanderbuilt,
Plank served as an organist, and has composed hymns.
Plank finds his new surroundings both comfortable and
intriguing: “I live across from where the sidewalk stops
at the end of the cemetery. I’m sure it must be symbol-
ic.”

Frank Hague 86

Karen Brautigam

Karen Brautigam, visiting assistant professor of
art, recently completed the requirements for the master
of fine arts degree at Michigan State University. A
graduate of Miami University at Oxford, Ohio, she is a
painter.

Her works have appeared in shows at Miami,
Michigan State, Northern Illinois University, Western
Michigan University, Fort Hayes State University and
elsewhere.

ee

Melinda Roshon

Ms. Melinda “Mindy” Roshon is a new member of
the psychology department. Born and raised in Ohio,
she went to undergraduate school at Denison College.
She received a master’s degree in Psychology from
Florida State University, and is in the midst of working
on her Ph.D.

fo.

After working as a student all her life, Ms. Roshon
finds that life on the other side of the podium is interest-
ing, but that it involves much more work. She explains
it this way: “Preparing each day’s lecture is like prepar-
ing a major paper every day.” And we thought three or
four a term was rough!

Bill Barnett

Irl C. Bivens

Irl C. Bivens, a native of Monroe, has been ap-
pointed assistant professor of mathematics. Bivens is a
graduate of Pfeiffer College, and holds the Ph.D. de-
gree from the University of Noréy Carotina' at Chapel
Hill. TM ta a

He formerly served as an instructor and as G:C.
Evans Instructor at Rice University.

THE DAVIDSUNIAN/Séptoniber 24, 1962" 5
