-eatures

John Brockway‘s Memory Re Search |

Dr. John P.. Brockway is a scholar of human memo-
ry. Despite the fact that he studied at Penn State under
Charles N. Cofer, one of the most widely respected me-
mory researchers in the world, as well as the fact that
he published, while in graduate school, one of the few
papers in the field to receive more citations in the
eighth year after it was published than in its first year,
he is far from a traditionalist. Rather, his ideas chal-
lenge the consensus of more than 2000 years of specu-
lation and scholarship, and today threaten the very
foundations of the psychology of memory (which, in the
estimation of some, has run a very fast race around a
short circular track). Nor are the means by which he
elucidates this theory limited to any one discipline. He
draws upon philosophical arguments, innovations in
computer science and artificial intelligence, as well as
the past.and present findings of memory researchers,
in support of his position. Two years ago, at a Greens-
boro conference, his statements were spurned by a
group of psychologists with a vested interest inthe very
paradigm he sought to reject; last fall, in Konstanz,
West Germany, his most recent paper was selected to
set the tone for the Language Use, Meaning and Inter-
pretation International conference; in a few months,
he will chair a discussion on the field that he has sin-
glehandedly created, at the prestigious American Py-
schological Association annual meeting in Washing-
ton, D.C. His ideas, at first considered quite radical,
are now gaining increasing acceptance. This article
attempts to present, albeit nonexhaustively, an histori-
cal overview and some of the central features of Dr.
Brockway’ s theory of human memory.

In order to understand what Dr. Brockway’s re-
search, it is important .to realize at the outset that much
of what scientists dois to attempt to relate the known to
the unknown through the: use of metaphor. For exam-

ple, a physicist may note that light tends:to “bend” —

when it passes through a hole or around a relatively
large object. This property is referred to.as diffraction.
Since waves in waterexhibit a similar property, it may
seem reasonable, for piitposes of research, to describe
light as a wave. What the physicist has done, then, in
the words of Richard Boyd, is to attribute to something
for which there exists no literal paraphrase the proper-
ties of a known thing with which he is more directly fa-
miliar, The:metaphor he has created, however, is more
than just shorthand scientific jargon; rather, it tends to
guide research in the direction of discovering further
similarities between the primary and secondary subject
of the metaphor. Since light exhibits at least one prop-
erty of a wave, it'seems reasonable to assume that it
will share other characteristics as well. And in this case
it does, as any good quantum mechanics text will tell
you. But a metaphor can just as-easily be misleading.
For instance, Benjamin Franklin and his contemporar-
ies believed electricity to be a fluid. One characteristic
of a fluid is that it can be contained; hence, myerie

‘Dr. Brockway —

tors during this time strove to construct a device which
could contain electricity. The result of their efforts was
the Leydn jar, which, to all external tests, appeared to
work, but the construction of which was based on a

metaphor now known to be limited in scope. The point.

is that while metaphors can serve as a guide for re-
search, they can also serve as a constraint on the types
of questions that can be asked about a phenomenon.
In psychology, especially in the study of human me-
mory, the object of scrutiny is far more ubiquitous. As
far back as Pavlov, it was believed that memory for an

event resulted from the reactivation of some neural
. connection between two’ points in the brain that were

both active at the time of the original event. This would

' séém to imply that memories exist in some specific lo-

cation of the brain, and could be characterized as actu-
al, literal things, namely, the connection between two
points in the brain. However, in the 1940’s, Karl Lash-
ley trained rats to run through a maze and then surgical-
ly removed varying portions of their cortex. Surpris-

-ingly enough, he found that decrements in maze per-

formance were a function only of the overall amount of
cortex removed, and not of the specific: area from

' which tissue was removed. Even then, the impairment -

was not, severe—rats with as much as 90% of their
brains removed were still able to creep, crawl or other-
wise struggle their way through the maze. Lashley and

. many others after him have taken: these findings as
“strong evidence. against the notion that memories, es-

pecially memories for complex events, are localized in

any specific region of the brain. However, it is argua-
ble that learning complex events involves several dif-
ferent sensory modalities, and that damage in any part
of the brain would disrupt performance by disrupting
one of the sensory modalities used in the learning task.
The more brain area damaged, the more sensory mo-
dalities destroyed, and hence, the greater the perfor-
mance decrement. Lashley argued against this inter-
pretation by demonstrating that the effects of damage
to. the occipital (visual) cortex. were: not the same as
blindness. He took two groups of rats, blinded the eyes
of one group, and left the other group’s eyes intact.
Then he excised.portions of the occipital cortex from
both groups. He found that occipital lesions still pro-
duced as much disruption in maze performance for the
blinded group as for the unblinded group. Evidently,
the occipital cortex contributes to rats’ memory for
mazes in more general ways than just through vision.
Much later, in the early 10’s, a great deal of research
was directed toward the attempt to characterize memo-
ry as the formation of specific RNA molecules. Ungar
(1972) trained a group of rats to fear the dark (a behav-
ior that almost no normal rat will spontaneously exhib-
it), then ground up their brains, extracted one type of
RNA that had not existed before the training, and in-
jected this extract into another, untrained group of rats.
Incredibly, these rats now exhibited a fear of the dark
as strong as that. found in their trained counterparts.
But, as it happened, this was a fairly isolated finding.

Porn ea kaa to lag act Ragas eRe eae hy Brit SN hd DiS Ba isos Ph is ees bk AERTS
: ACs Cnn diner scnm ps Mean Lod Reena tL Ree eae tay, nein Sante are de hrs "

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
