~

Dr. William P. Cumming:

A Study in the Cartography of scholarship

By LEE TORRENCE ’83

Dr. William Patterson Cumming lives on Woodlawn
Street, right across from Dr. Mary Beaty. He became a
professor of English here at Davidson in 1927 and
served as chairman of the department from 1961 until
retirement in 1968. I visited him at his house one day
last week and spent an enjoyable and rewarding after-
noon talking with him about his life and work. I found
Professor Cumming to be a dapper, well-dressed man,
exceedingly gracious and eager to talk about his fasci-
nation with old maps.

He was born in Japan of missionary parents who sent
him back to the United States when he was thirteen. At
sixteen he came to Davidson and majored in physics.
He attended Princeton for graduate school, receiving
his M. A. in English in 1922 and his Ph. D. in 1925..
Professor Cumming spent a year at Oxford, then taught
for a year at Williams College in Massachusetts.. In

1927 he returned to teach at Davidson.

However, he returned to England each summer, do-
ing research in Renaissance literature. It was on one of

these trips abroad that he met his wife, Elizabeth Cum-
ming, who had been teaching at Smith College. They
Were married in 1931 and sailed to England for their
honeymoon. While in London, Dr. Cumming noticed
in the window of an old print shop a map of “Carolina”
which showed a large western lake, a 125-mile desert
called “Arenosa”, and a savannah that was said to be
submerged for half of the year. He was intrigued by the
map and amused by the notion that his home in David-
son lay in the middle of the savannah. Professor Cum-
ming bought the map and a curtographer encouraged
him to research the matter further. This he did, and he
soon found that the map was a copy of the first Jud’s
Proprietors Map by Ogilby, who had relied heavily on
the often-exaggerated reports of a young German
scholar and travéller, John Lederer. After this expe-
rience, Dr. Cumming says, “Iwas hooked on maps and
have been ever since.”

This began his intensive research of old maps. He |

spent practically all his free time during the next
twenty-seven years, combing the libraries and archives
of this country for old maps and other documents of

gota yyy SEE CLAN

cartographical interest. He was meticulous in his re-
search, and evidence of this can be seen in the fact that
both the Library of Congress and the British Museum
have adopted his system of numbering and indexing
maps. Map collectors and dealers rely heavily on his
work; one New England dealer has told Professor
Cumming that some of his clients will not buy a map if
it is not listed by Cumming. The culmination of much
of his research was the publication in 1958 of The
Southeast in Early Maps. —

Certainly one of the most exciting scholarly finds
made by Professor and Mrs. Cumming was the collec-
tion of maps owned by the duke of Northumberland
and housed at Alnwick Castle in Northern England.
Cumming wrote to the Duke, and he replied that the
Cummings were welcome to inspect his maps but that
his earliest map of America only dated from 1751. Pro-
fessor Cumming hypothesized that the Duke must have
a copy of the Fry-Jefferson Map, made by Joshua Fry,
a surveyor and professor of mathematics at William
and Mary, and Peter Jefferson, the father of Thomas
Jefferson. When they arrived, they found their expec-

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982

