| Having given you.a week’s reprieve from Travels

with John, O best beloved (see Speculative Notes), 1
shall return to the road this week.

It seems that we sometimes tempt disaster, some-
times tease it along, and sometimes we downright beg
for it. But rarely does disaster come along completely
of its own accord. This tale is of one such instance-
—completely unenticed tragedy.

The endeavor began innocently enough. My friend
Eric and I were simply trying to come to Davidson after
a cozy three week Christmas vacation. I was a sopho-
more then, eagerly returning to further pursue my lib-
eral arts odyssey. Eric, then a wizened college senior
from West Virginia University, was merely along for
the ride.

- As anyone from much north of here can tell you; ‘the .
ez ~ have dinner with and begged off. This was not made
easier by the fact that there was a particular daughter in
this family that. was providing my young hormones.

to be oft, but it is the only thing connecting Southern
West Virginia
Which is ‘why we and my dear daddy’s V.W, Rabbit
were on it this fateful January day. It was one of those

days ‘that your mother (at least my mother) always —

warns of—just enough ice ‘on the road that you don’t
think about it, and just enough off-and—on snow that

you don’t notice when it’s starting to get worse.

. belied, Bh 100 apes Bees. On.§ Vy, two-lane

thought "Wow sania fern ” There wasn’t 2

even an exclamation point at the end. An interesting
thing about disasters is that they are usually flecked
With bits of beneficence that after four years as a reli-

gion major I stilt haven’t figured out. Although it was a.

holiday Sunday on a narrow, busy road, we had both
lanes to ourselves at that moment. So after getting a
pretty good look at both shoulders of the road, the car
settled neatly against one of those reflector poles that
the Turnpike.cot puts out there for us to. hit.
My first accident.

Faithful exponents of existential humor that we
were, we drove on, a crumpled door handle and -

creased rear panel reminding. us of the vagaries of the
physical world. The next hour or.so is a southbound
ae in retrospect, bus the reer? become imluch cl clearer

; ns of the car. But unfamiliar mechani-

ois re Aothing new to us children of technology

- objects are remarkably ‘good at siege
ge vatiraey Thad checked the oil before leaving Cha-
Sy irae gee tommy mi

~, oe to eM doi pee
ginia. W iver mn oo tty By

with the rest of the world i.e, Dixie. -

€-distance stance, oui re nde grabtae Soon two

leathery machinists pulled over to see if they could
help. ‘After hearing a quick rehash of the events and
sound-effects leading up to the current state of affairs,
they responded with that “Hoo-boy” that every me-
chanical moron dreads to hear from somebody who
knows something about cars. The gentlemen further

. elaborated byinforming us that: we had. probably
“thowed a rod”. With this injunction ringing in our

‘now blue ears, we quietly crept into the kind men’s car,

- accepting their offer of a ridé toa phone. They did their

best to heer us up, as ous flags were pretty much at half-
—mast by this time.

‘Arriving at a Burger Chef I did three things. Icalled .

my friends in Winston-Salem who I had planned. to

with a considerable degree of distraction. Then Icalled
my dad, to tell him that we were the victims of a techni-

cal difficulty of an as yet unknown nature. I managed

_to skip the part about the collision, out of deference to
his fragile condition. At a doddering forty—eight, I fig- .

ured he deserved gentle treatment. Something told me
he would know all things in their time. ‘The third thing I

did was to discover that the only towing facility opento
sl the car roe aypen perch Wy Vie sie he pet
Seas teed Inching back ‘Again, “we met with:

‘quick success.

was back in the direction:

Our second ‘benefactor bears considerable more
cause for description than those who picked us up first.

He. drove a rusty red van with carpet.on every inside:

surface, carrying twelve huge rolls of kraft paper that
he, was delivering somewhere in Tennessee. He was
working on what appeared to be his third six-pack of
Miller ponys, one of whose empties was balanced on
his. prodigious belly, collecting: tobacco spittle. His
name was Bill. He was in a mood to talk, and Eric and I
weren't, so it worked.out pretty well: The ride back to
Bland was a short one, and-as there was not but one ex-
it, I got out there and started walking down the snow

road in search of Castor Wrecker Service, my one hope.
-for some degree of resolution of the conflicts that were
_wracking my soul. Bill-drove on with Eric, ostensibly .
_ to take Eric on to wait with the car. Well, just after 1
_ jumped out of the van, I later hear, Bill expressed a par- .
ticular interest in Eric’s all-American features and cur-
golden locks. Eric politely and I’m sure very di-

ly pi up Bill’s rather extravagent invita-
0 time, telling Bill that I would worry if he

; eer Cathie Eee wien Lact But all this did.
pet de wayne 5 aaa cc

ae tod otic co wae Casto’s place, waiting for

‘him to. finish up # re-tun of “the Newlywed Game”. :

to his neighbor, brother, and wife I had
‘him there, where he sat in his garage, the stove

- Winston-Salem, we were able to work it

roaring. alittle slow, Mr. Casto was very help-
eee Prep iia caren’

-troublemobile was just a few. miles down the road, he

offered to go get it with his pickup truck and tow chain
(for about $10) rather than get out his wrecker and
make an official run (about $40). I guess he figured

from‘ my’ description of the car’s plight that I'd be
strapped enough as it was.

_ By the time that was all ovear, Eric, Mr. Casto and I
were standing at the tow—a—rama, darkness was mov-

_ ing ‘in, and prospects for the night looked bleak. There

was nothing more to do about the car at that time, and
the fact remained that I had to get back to school. ‘En-
tropy was at one of its all_time peaks in my life. Icalled

~ some friends in Winston-Salem who are more used to

my erratic ways than most, and told them that if we
could manage a ride to Wytheville, we would catch the

__bus and be there to spend the: night. They were more

than accomodating, espcially on hearing that we might
or might not be there by midnight. What I hadn’t men-

_ tioned, ‘because I hate to hear myself say these sorts of

things, is that it is very difficult for two desperate—look-
ing late-adolescent males to thumb a ride on an inter-
state in the pitch dark, which was exactly what we had.

. to.in order even to make it to the bus stop. What was
_more, our time in which to do this was rather limited,

partly because. it had become too cold to stand outside

for long and partly because the bus was not going to
wait forever once it got to Wytheville. On saying good-

oh nsive about the =

bye to.Mr, Casto, Iwas quite 1p
: *

My distraught state was considerably improved by
our two-mile walk back to the interstate, carrying what
possessions from the scuttled car that we could. Our
arrival at I-77 was met by a vision of that late-night
traveller’s Mecca, the All Night Truck Stop, its yellow
and orange signs and lights a beacon to the road-
—weary.. Which we were. I went in, and immediately
went in to use the phone, hoping to find out just what
time the Winston-Salem bus was leaving Wytheville.
As I-dialed, thisscene was taking place outside—a
dramatization: Sweet young tired woman pulls in for

gas and a rest. Eric spots his opportunity.

“BE Howdy.’Goin’ south? ~

‘SYTW: I. don't know. I’m trying to get to Winston-
—Salem. .

- “B: Great! So am I. May I'have a ride?

Before she has time to answer, Eric is piling our lug-

page into:her already overflowing back seat. ‘There.

Now let's go in and: get my friend.

— SYTW, of course; didn’t know what to say. She later

said that it was only the genuine Jook of relief on my -

, face when’ was informed that we ‘had a ride that
stopped her from screarhing ‘for help.

- Sitice she had’a car and since I’knew how to get to
out. I think
it helped our case somewhat that she was from
has > Wincain Gon Ma Uaisaiy teed ou te vond
alone for ten hours and was going batty. In case you

don’t recognize it,'she too was one of those flecks of

beneficence that appear in-even the strangest misad-
venture. God bless you, Nancy Vauder-whatever your

name was. We made it:
By John Hartman; “82

