“Rg Tre

ny
beep:

gh Be

sédgs ust

af

boys arid Slimshafts reported that Davidson. Head Bas-
ketbalt Coach Bobby Hussey had a bottle of Boone’s
Farm Bordeaux Wine on his Christmas list (in refer-
ence to the Davidsonian article, The Bordeaux of bas-
ketball: Winemaker Hussey hopes team will improve
with age”), in reality he hopes the season of red and

green will bring him some players he can dress in red’

and black. That’s right.. Recruits...

Each year at abeut this time: thousands of college
scouts, usually assistant coaches, galavant across the
countryside in search of tens of thousands of high
school seniors with one common trait. They can play
basketball. Oh, not that each scout goes after every
high school star in twenty states or anything. Instead,
each coach seeks the players with the right mixture of
personal characteristics which will allow that player an
easy transition into the new program.

At Davidson of course, all these prerequisites are
much more ‘stringent,’ To begin with, a large portion of
potential recruits is narrowed out on the basis of grades
alone. One would think the -high academic standards a
royal pain in the recruit mailing list, but Hussey sees
the advantages. The standards elitninate from scrutiny
a large portion of the graduating harvest so that the
coaching staff may focus more attention on the aca-
demic cream of the crop. Secofdly, good academics
correlate well with the other characteristics in which
Hussey is interested. These personality traits include
among others high motivation, hustle, a team play
orientation, and, of course, basketball talent. ‘All these

characteristics are the common denominators of this,

year’s recruits, and future Cat watchers can expect
more of the same.

But as cars race from high school to high scliool -

and WATS lines light up at college after college, this

Although the IMAC comedy team of the-Dough--

Steve Seud ds

Po Meet the Five High School Seniors
Davidson Coaches Covet Most

74
,

I

year’s recruiting deadline approaches rapidly. And
Hussey has a long list of players which he’s checked
more than twicé, but right now he’s concentrating on
five in particular from which he’d love to see letters of
intent under the tree.

Rafael Hernandez

Although right now Wildcat fans may best relate to-
Rafael Hernandez as a good friend of our own of Ken-
ny Wilson, should he choose Davidson from the host of
schools that are recruiting him, he will become more

‘than. KW’s friend: He’]l become a Davidson star in his
,own right. A Jot of athletic ability is packed into Ra- .
~ fael’s 6’6” 195lb. frame, and he uses it all to be avery.

good, very versatile player.

Hemiandez, interested in business both on and off
the court, combines finesse and-a power game so that
he isa scoring threat from anywhere. He’s an excellent
perimeter shooter, but his leaping ability gives him the
added dimension of being able to score down low.

Coach Hussey is deeply impressed. with the South-
view High School senior, who has received outstand-
ing coaching from Ron. Miller. “Rafael is a yery good
athlete who is versatile enough to help in more than one
position.. He has good. speed, quickness, and jumping
ability. He could play swing or high post even though
he’s only 6’6”. He plays much bigger than he is.’

Hernandez is a well-spoken athlete who Hussey
feels has the same personal characteristics as his prede-
cessor Kenny. Wilson. “Rafael could definitely help us
as a freshman. He’s an intelligent player who under-
stands the game very well.”

The coaches have their fingers crossed that Rafael
Hernandez will be wearing Wildcat red and black next
