Soccer: Satisfied

By MARK ELMORE ’82

What is important in a college sport season is not
the final statistical outcome where each game is item-
ized in a column of “W’s” and “L’s” and each player's
performance is spoken for in his number of assists or
shots on goal. Instead, it is the friendships made and
the experiences together that make ateam.

Amad Rashad, a veteran wide receiver for the Min-
nesota Vikings, candidly describes football camp in
two recent editions of Sports Illustrated as being al-
most friendless; he refutes the image of buddies work-
ing hard together for victory and consoling one another
in defeat. I can think of many college teams that proba-
bly have seasons devoid of emotion due to disparity in
interests, nationality and even age.

The Davidson soccer team is very different from
teams where bought talent is slapped together and held
under cement training rules and imposed order. The
soccer team has found a balance and Coach Slagle en-
hances this balance with the freedom that he gives us-
—but not too much. (Lambert, Blood and Roberts ran
100 times from the field hockey field up to the soccer
field for having a little bit too much fun.)

Mike Mauze and I talked about this balance at one
of our away games. “You know, there are guys from
almost every fraternity on this team and guys that are

quiet and introverted but we all get along so well. I
would probably have never spent time and not known
half the guys if it weren't for soccer, and some of them
are my best friends,” Mauze said.

On the way home from Western Carolina towards
the beginning of the season, we made the mistake of
stopping at Dairy Queen. Several of us secretly stocked
up on straws, paper, pepper, spoons and mustard for a
battle. It turns out that everyone in the van had wea-
pons and ammo and an hour and a half spitball battle
ensued, only ending because Lambert started shooting
mustard and pepper balls. However, when we stopped
for gas, the other van pulled up next to us and everyone
jumped out with straws in mouth and stormed our van
with dozens of spitballs. This battle covered the entire
parking lot and terrified other customers. The gas sta-
tion attendant just thought we were nuts, but its very

‘pical of how well everyone gets together.

And the balance has been rewarding on the field:
the team finished | 1-4-4 overall, 5-2 and second to Ap-
palachian State in the Southern Conference whom we
creamed 4-0, won the Charlotte Observer Tournament
and was rankedd both 9th and 10th in the entire South
for the last quarter of the season. Chris Roberts, Bill
Wahl, Todd Lambert, Brian Hamilton and goalie Pat
Woodward will most likely find places on the select
Southern Conference Team, and Roberts should be

voted as the best player in the Conference by all its
members — undoubtedly he deserves it. And, like last
year, Coach Charles (I can call him anything now that
the season is over) “Beachball” Slagle should be voted
for Southern Conference Coach of the Year.

We’ ve come a long way in my time (of course this
statement opens me to criticism because “my time” has
been a long time). But, since 1977 when the team was
0-16, the record has gotten progressively better each
season. Even though the team ended this year | 1-4-4,
many players feel let down because we came so close,
and really deserved to do better. We outshot VMI 3 to |
and lost 2-1, completely outplayed many of the teams
we tied (University of Tennessee: tie 1-1. Shots: Da-
vidson 41, UT 4), beat the conference champions Ap-
palachian State 4-0, and I tainted my glorious number
21 by having one of the worst games of my life on my
last college game — I even crossed a ball that went into
the woods!

Anyway, I’ve got more chances for goals in the in-
dustrial leagues. I hope the team can keep its special
balance and continue its winning spiral. Under the di-
rection of Coach Slagle and outspoken freshman Wally
Goodman, I am sure only great things lie ahead.

Mark Elmore is a fifth year senior who did score this
year. And that fact is worth all the turmoil I endured
this season. Ed.

Looking for a chance to move in the
fast lane? Then check out Marine
Corps Aviation. The training is su-
perb. The challenges are unique.
Your ticket to fly is your college

diploma and your drive to succeed.

If you’ve got what it takes, you
could be at the controls of anything
from a Cobra to a Harrier to the
hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet.

the number listed
below, today.

See your Marine Corps Officer
Selection Officer when he visits your

Maybe you can be one of us. #§=>

Call your Officer Selection Officer collect at (704) 371-6128 or see him at your campus 13-15 December.

THE.DAYIDSONJAN/10 December 1982 17.
