Davidson Attends

‘The Dinner Party ”

Judy Chicago’s sculpture

honors 1038 women

BY SHERBURNE LAUGHLIN ’83 AND ROBIN
KIDD ’83

A glowing triangular dinner table illuminates the
bare auditorium of Atlanta’s Fox Theatre Sculpture
Museum. From the balcony, the thirty-nine plates and
needlework runners of Judy Chicago’s “The Dinner
Party” form a brilliant pattern on the white linen cloth.
Each side stretching 48 feet in length, the table rests on
a platform overlaid with triangular porcelain tiles in-
scribed in gold leaf with the names of 999 women-
—women whom Judy Chicago and a special research
team culled out of history to represent the women of
Westem civilization.

The object of “The Dinner Party” is “to celebrate
women’s achievements . . . and also to point out ways
in which these achievements had been obscured and
women constrained.” Inspired by the biblical interpre-
tation of the Last Supper, Chicago stated, “Her inten-
tion was to create a ‘reinterpretation of the Last Supper
from the point of view of those who had done the cook-
ing throughout history.”” Using the mediums of china
painting and needlework, Chicago transforms tradi-
tional “women’s work” into a forceful affirmation of
the cumulative spirit of women.

The plates, runners, table and platform were the re-
sult of the cooperative efforts of 400 men and women
over a five-year period. The plates themselves repre-

sent a mythical figure or historic woman who was sig-

nificant in the development of Western civilization.
Each runner—embellished with needlework motifs
from the time of the woman represented—identifies
the woman and provide a context for her plate. The
platform beneath displays the names of women of
“common experience, achievements, historic periods
or places of origin of the women honored.” Women
recognized include artist Georgia O’Keefe and Mar-
garet Sanger, whose scarlet-blood-red plate brutally
reveals the hardships in her fight for methods of birth
control. In Virginia Woolf's plate, in Sojourner
Truth’s, in Eleanor of Aquitaine’s, the struggles and
achievements of half the human race enveloped us.
The swish of long gowns softly accompanied our view-
ing as we and the women portrayed united in an under-
standing of past struggles in hope for future achieve-
ments. .

Moving chronologically from plate to plate, we start-

ed with the imagery blatantly displayed in the work. -

Overt vaginal imagery progressed from the fertile
browns and green of the primordial goddesses to the

cream-colored ceramic lace of Emily Dickinson. In
shape, depth, and color, Chicago wishes to portray the
blessing and the curse of woman’s sexual being in the
positive “feminine principle source of life” and the
negative “consumption” of women both sexually and
spiritually. Uninhibited in her use of this metaphor,
Chicago intially offends; yet, in the beauty of her por-
trayal, she finds acceptance and appreciation from us
and the rest of the viewers. Such a confrontation
enabled us to transcend traditional prejudices and to
comprehend freshly woman as a complete being.

The plates, becoming increasingly three-dimension-
al throughout the sequence, begin to rise literally off
the table, and arrival at the last plate, Georgia
O’Keefe’s, swelled us with pride—pride in the work
and cooperation of the artists, pride in the accomplish-
ments of previous women, and pride in womanhood.
“The Dinner Party” displays the neglect of women
throughout recorded history, but it is also full of hope
that just as the triangular table achieved equilateral bal-
ance, so might “the feminine be reestablished on earth
[and] a balance . . . restored to human existence.”

€

‘Woman Minister Visits Davidson

Mary Faith Carson proves it can be done

BY SARAH HUGHES ’84
\

Mary Faith Carson, at first meeting, seems calm,
soft-spoken, and down-to-earth. She has an easy laugh
and a friendly manner. Behind all of these characteris-
tics, however, glimmers determination that comes to
the surface whenever she discusses the issue of women
in the ministry.

Dr. Carson was on campus last week as Staley Lec-
turer, talking on the dehumanization of humankind.
Part of a panel discussion at the Open Luncheon on
women in the ministry, she also presented a paper on
women in the Bible.

Her air of determination is no illusion, because her
experiences as a woman in the ministry have required
determination. From the start, she has faced chal-
lenges. She was the first full-time woman student at
Union Seminary and was forced to pave her own path

the entire way. 4

Carson was led to seek ordination partly because of
her past experiences. She was counseling students who
were considering ordination and realized that it was
something she needed to look into herself. Also, Car-
son felt a deepening conviction that the preaching of
the Word and the administration of the Sacraments be-
longed together. When she made known her plans for
ordination, her friends’ first response was, “What took
you so long?”

Once ordained and settled in a church, the struggles
did not end. Although she met general acceptance,
there were stumbling blocks. For example, one man
would get up and leave the church service whenever
Carson administered the sacraments.

Carson has written a paper on women in the Bible
to counteract those who take any verse out of context to
support their ideas. Carson’s intention is to present a

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982

well-rounded overview of women in the entire Bible.
Naturally, she starts at Genesis, where God creates
both male and female, equally. Carson cites the forma-
tion of a woman from a rib, implying that man and
woman should be side by side. The rest of her paper
progresses through the Bible along the same lines. Her
one problem, as Dr. McKelway suggested to her dur-
ing the presentation, is that she tends to pick and
choose which particular parts of the Bible she uses, and
she does not adequately cover some important areas.

Mary Faith Carson seems extremely pleased with
her life in the ministry. There are still challenges for
her to face. For example, as Harriet Otten said at the
Open Luncheon, “People are watching us to see if
we're feminine or not.” As Dr. Carson proves, obe-
dience to God through the ministry in no way reduces
one’s femininity.

11
