Cats Lose Heartbreaker to Newberry

_ By SCOTT HUIE’85

It was a game the Cats had no business
losing, one where the coaches puzzle
over the films twenty times and the
players kick themselves in their sleep.
All ask the same question, “How did we
let this one get away?”

Calling Saturday’s 8-7 loss to New-
berry a heartbreaker could be the under-
statement of the year; the defeat simply
left a crowd of 2600 stunned.

Coach Farrell explained, “You know,
we had 25 ways to win it and one way to
lose it, and, sure enough, we lost it.”

The blow happened on a freak play
just before the three-minute mark in the
final period. Holding on to a 7-0 lead,
quarterback Keith Martin dropped back

in the pocket from the Davidson 39-yard
line and saw his receiver. Hardly three
yards away, a charging Newberry line-
man raised his hands to block the pass,
but discovered that, instead of batting
the ball down, he miraculously had in-
tercepted the pass. Untouched, he ran
into the end zone for the score. The two-
point conversion pass was good, giving
the Indians the win.

That final blow could have been just a
meaningless statistic had Davidson cap-
italized on two scoring opportunities in
the first half.

“Yep,” said Farrell, “We very easily
could have been up 21-0 at halftime in-
stead of an uncomfortable 7-0.” Mid-
way through the second period, the Cats
drove from midfield down to the New-
berry 13-yard line. Faced with a fourth

Me Seg siivs BY ae

down, Farrell surprisingly elected to go
for it, and the defense batted Martin’s
pass down.

“In such a situation,” Farrell said,
“the conventional thing to do was to
send in the kicker. But for Chip (fresh-
man Knox, who doubles as a soccer
player) this is his first year in football
and that’s a lot of pressure to put him in.
Of course, I can always use hindsight
and say, yes, I should have put him in.
But that’s football.”

Davidson’s second chance to put the
Indians away came right before half-
time. Again the Cats drove from mid-
field deep into Newberry territory.
Faced with a fourth and 20 from the 26
yard line, however, the Cats again opted
to pass instead of kick and Martin’s pass
was intercepted.

James Stanley returns ball on punt.

ohn Ruppenthal '84

Early in the second quarter, freshman
speedster James Stanley set up the Cats
lone touchdown with an impressive 39-
yard punt return to the Indian 23-yard
line. A 22-yard pass completion to half-
back Leonard Walker put Davidson on
the one, whence fullback Mike Long-
mire took it over for his fifth touchdown
of the year.

What made the loss so hard to accept
was the fact that the Cats completely
dominated the game, leading in first
downs 16 to 8, yards rushing 116 to
102, and yards passing 172 to 53. So
lopsided was the first half, in fact, that
Newberry could muster only 33 yards in
total offense.

Individually, the Cats were just as im-
pressive. Martin completed 14 of 29
passes for 172 yards and two intercep-
tions. Seven of those passes found sure-

handed Tod Hermetz on the receiving
end, upping his season total to 16.
Longmire continued his yeoman’s per-
formance at fullback rushing for 66
yards and a touchdown in 17 attempts.

Analyzing the team’s performance to
date, Farrell said, “Although we lost
this game—and it’s still hard to believe
we did—I feel we played our best yet,
especially on defense. Things are start-
ing to click. And on offense, we're get-
ting a good mixture of passing and run-
ning. We've just got to do the little
things right.”

Tomorrow, the Cats face a formidable
{oe in James Madison (3-1), winners of
three straight, including a mild upset of
Appalachian and a titantic upset of Vir-
ginia.

Said Farrell, “Madison comes at you
with all sorts of options, they pass a lot,
and they have a massive offensive line.
But I don’t think they're as good as their
record shows; likewise, I don’t think
we’re as bad as our record shows. I feel
we can sneak up on them.”

For those of you who remember last
year’s Davidson 44-14 upset victory
over powerhouse Boston U., this one
could be interesting.

> Huie’s Prediction:
ce)

J. Madison 27 Davidson 21

Cross Country: Low Times , No Win

By GARRY SULLIVAN ’83

In a nine-team meet this past Satur-
day, only two schools racked up higher
scores than the male Wildcats. But be-
fore one hastily jumps for joy and pro-
claims the catnap is indeed over, one
must learn that it is the lowest score that
ensures victory in cross-country meets.

As in the meet against Duke, David-
son’s solid performances were not

enough to ensure victory, and the Wild- .

cats were again forced to settle for per-
sonal records and-high scores.
Wake Forest and Radford College

dominated the meet at Charlotte’s
McAlpine Park, but it was the States-
ville Strider, Frank Ivey, that won the
race with an impressive time of 25:32.

No other Wildcats were able to stick
with Frank, who finished twenty se-
conds ahead of his nearest competitor.
The next Davidson harrier was the Port
City Pacer, Jack Smith, who placed
thirty-first overall. Team guru Bryan
Zielinski, mid- Westerner Jim Trotter,
and the pride of Greenville S.C., Tim
Cassell, made up the rest of the David-
son top five. Tim, who took last year off
to train for cross country, improved

greatly over last week’s performance,
and he could provide a real boost for the
team in meets to come. Times for the
flat 5.1 mi’* course were impressive,
but the stiff competition simply over-
whelmed the men’s team.

The lady Wildcats, however, were
not so unlucky. It took a cadre of for-
midable Georgia State runners to over-
whelm the ladies, who placed second
overall across the 5,000 meter course.

Jean Webb ran superbly to capture
the first Davidson spot, finishing third
overall in a time of 19:24. Jean’s
number one finish for the team was
somewhat of a surprise, but is a testa-

ment to the depth of the female squad.
Sarah Patterson and Marian Hill battled
for seventh place, with Sarah finishing
five seconds ahead of the lowa Wonder.
Chris Seel placed fourth for the team,
another indication of her meteoric im-
provement since last year. Coming in
fifth for the team, and eighteenth over-
all, was team philosopher Tamara Fore-
man. Tamara was a mere minute and ten
seconds behind Jean Webb.

Despite these’ notable athletic
achievements, Davidson was unable to
subdue the Georgia State Runners, who
sprinted into five of the top ten places.

lai ih isi ii i eis
THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982

17
