Friday 16 April 1982

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Volume LXXil, Number 19

Development in the Town of Davidson
The Second Article in a Series of Three

This abbicte is asecondi ina series on
Development in Davidson. It outlines
the Development taking place in the
town. of Davidson itself. Next week, the
final article on the future of Davidson
will be presented.

.. Thetown of Davidson has extensive
plans for Development which are to be
implemented in the near future.

Central to these plans is an extensive
downtown  ‘fevitalization program,
which is to begin when final assurances

are. arranged. between Piedmont: Bank «

and Trust Company and the U:S. Postal
Service. .Arrangements have almost
been finalized for. Piedmont Bank to sell
parcels of land to the Postal Service, in
order: that: a new post office may be
built, on what is now the vacant cae
‘ty behind the bank.

Once this deal has been fintingd,
the town of Davidson has assured the
U.S,P.S. that it will commence with the
following projects: Railrc..1 Street will
be widened and extended to South Main
Street. A pedestrian mall will be estab-
lished between the back of Main Street

and Railroad Street. It is hoped that.
many, new. businesses and offices. will
open on ‘this mall, effectively tripling —
the size of the downtown business dis-

trict.

“The most-successful businesses i in
Davidson have been those that special-
ize in the arts and crafts,” reports David-

ae — ieerighbiach Sette

serts that the town plan for downtown
development has been virtualy unop-
posed. “What most people have in mind
is Davidson as a village.”

Although plans are for Davidson to
remain primarily a residential commu-
nity, some industry is necessary for a
broadened tax base, and to provide local
employment. “Gradual and balanced
growth” is Mayor. MacCormav’s long-

term ideal.

Davidson has recently been
awarded a $400,000 Urban Develop-
ment Action Grant for expansion of its
water treatment plant. This grant

enabled the enlargement of the system .

to accomodate an expansion of the In-
gersol-Rand Plant, which is one of Da-
vidson’s largest employers. Ground has
already been broken for the factory,

which is located behind the Oak Hill
Apartments.

North Mecklenburg has been a
strong candidate for development for
some time, since the construction of in-
terstate highways and the construction
of Lake Norman. It is hoped that David-
son will soon iron out problems of con-
trol and rate structure with the City of

Continued on page 23

Cah dy

Lp ation ABS ie

vell and Hunt Hi

wi rea Aes

light

Spring Convocation

College President Sam hese and

- Chairman of the Board of Trustees Fred

Stair will present honorary Doctor of
Law Degrees to Chairman of the Board
of Ford Motor Company Phillip Cald-
well and North Carolina Governor
James Hunt today at this year’s Spring
Convocation, the opening activity of
‘Alumni Weekend.

. An academic procession of the fac-
“ulty and the Senior Class into Love
Auditorium: at 10:00 a:m.. will com-
mence the ceremonies, which include
an address by Governor Hunt, the pre-

sentation of over twenty student and

faculty awards, and music by the Col-
lege Wind Ensemble and Concert

weet a

Union Director Shaw Smith will
present the Gladstone Memorial award
to the most outstanding rising senior,
poet Charles Wright will present the
writing awards, Betsy Thomas will
present the Omicron Delta Kappa teach-
ing award, Dean of Students Will Terry
will present three student awards, At-
hletic Director Edward Farrell:and sev-
eral coaches will present athletic
awards, and Vice-President in Charge
of Academic Affairs and Dean of the
Faculty Price. Zimmerman will present
departmental awards.

Six new scholarships and student
aid funds, the Peter McCormack Brown
Fund, the Frederick Lybrand Fowler,

Jr. Fund, the McPhar Fund, the Morey

and Stephen Sands Scholarship Fund,
and the Rea C. Tenney Scholarship
Fund, are being added to this year’s
awards ceremonies.

According to a letter to students by
Dr. Spencer, Convocation is “an impor-
tant event in- the life of the college” be-
cause it is an opportunity “for the whole
campus community to get together.”
The program should draw a number of
students and over four hundred David-
son graduates to the college this wee-
kend.

The major events of Alumni Wee-
kend consist of “capsule courses” taught
sé Davidson professors and graduates at

Continued on page 23

