Film Reviews with Debbie Eisenbise -

The Grapes of Wrath
Southern Comfort
Singing in the Rain

e Friday’ s Pop Filni @ and 10:30 pm), Southern” .

Comfort has little to do with the alcoholic beverage of
the same name or of the niceties of Southern hospitali-
ty. In fact, the only comfort you will find is in the title.
Director Walter Hill'and producer David Giler have
teamed up to create a chiling drama of a weekend gone
awry echoing J Deliveranceand designed to keep one
glued to the edge of his seat. The film is set in the bayou
where the Louisiana national guard has gone for a wee-
kend of playing army. The story centers around one
small band of men who get lost in the swamps and then
find themselves j in the midst of a real war in which they
are the enemy encroaching upon Cajun turf..
Private Spencer (Keith Carradine) and Charles
_ Hart (Powers Boothe) create tremendous characters as
the only two guards with any bit of common sense. Yet
‘they are not ‘portrayed as ‘total stoics in a world gone
mad: They ‘have’ thei? ‘moments of. fright’ and panic

when attacked: by dogs and snipers, and when turned_._—...:—

‘on by their comrades. The movie becomes a documen-
tary of group dynamict i in face of real and unexpected
danger.

As in Deliverance, one doesn’ t know where the wee-
kend ends and the atrocity begins nor when it will end.
The suspense permeates every scene as the men at-
tempt to escape the Cajuns’ traps and bullets and the
ever-entangling web of the swamp.

If tension and seriousness disturb you, the answer is
just around the bend with another Pop Film on Satur-
day the 24th, at 8 and 10:30 pm. The April showers
which have brought a grimace to many a student’s face
this spring are a cause for rejoicing in Gene Kelly and
ae Donen’ $ $ Singing i in the Rain. One of Ameri-

4 . a

eB

7,

ca’s best-loved musicals, this 1952 classic joyfully re-
vives the song, the dance, the romance and the fun
oflife.

Debbie Reynolds and Gene Kelly (who sang,
danced, acted, choreographed, and directed this work)
hold the key to revitalizing romance as.they sing their
memorable duet “You Were Meant for Me.” With the
help of Donald O’Connor, the movie emits a happy-
go-lucky exhuberance that. is nothing short of being
contagious.

Another classic comes to the screen on Wednesday

_ the 28th with John Ford’s 1941 version of The Grapes

of Wrath. Nunnally Johnson’s adaptation. of Stein-
beck’s novel works the story of the Okies who forsook
their dust bowl home, into a cohesive study of one fam-

. ily’s strength. The last part of the novel is dropped and
_ only pieces of. the: total dialogue are left in, but the

film’s strength and the story’s poignant message are
still gripping. The shots of the desolate scenery and the
quiet empty faces of those who must face an uncertain
future with courage and dignity capture the spirit-of
Steinbeck’s original work.

The story revolves around the westward movement
of Ma and Pa Joad and their son Tom. It is the tale of a
family that endures. As Ma Joad says, “We’re the peo-
ple that live. Can’t nobody wipe us out.” Ma Joad and

. Tom particularly stand out as strong individuals, but:

the rest of the cast is of high caliber and act with remar-
kable realism and honesty.

It is a film that will cause you to feel the pain of these
proud people, and cause you to want to join with them

in their j joumey and their _stotagte.

ike eee

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

