Focus on DCF

One of the larger groups on campus
seeks diversity, understanding campuswide

BY FRED BROADWELL '83

Here is a typical scene at Davidson College. On a
weekday night about ten o’clock people start streaming
into the room:across the hall.. You look to one of your
hall-mates and he whispers to you, “DCF small
group.” “Oh, DCF!” What visions those three letters
arouse in your mind. If you are like many Davidson
students, you now quickly grab up your books and es-
cape to the library. Why escape? Well, you, for one,
certainly have no need for a fundamentalist Bible-
study group led by your constantly smiling hall-mate.
Besides, you are taking “Old Testament 101” and the
professor says that fundamentalism is anti-intellectual
and mindless.

It is a precisely this image which Davidson Christian
Fellowship is trying to buck, say its leaders. “Yes, we
do suffer from a PR problem,” large group leader Tim
Ritchie admits. Tim cites the general lack of awareness

“We have avery simple objective:
spread the Gospel. This includes
discipleship, evangelism and world
missions as part of our program”

about DCF and what it stands for as the source of their
PR problem. DCF is a nondenominational Christian
group which meets together in “large group” on Friday
nights and in “small groups” of about 6-12 people once
a week. Usually one hundred peoople attend large
group meetings, while (significantly) double that
number participate in the small groups. This is due
probably to the personal atmosphere of small groups
which many students can not find at local churches or
at large group. DCF is autonomous of Davidson Col-
lege, meaning, for instance, that Charlie Summers, the
college chaplain, has no official duties with DCF. The
group does receive $400-$600 in funding from the
school as a campus organization. DCF is also not con-
nected with such organizations as Campus Crusade for
Christer Inter-Varsity, although structurally there may

be similarities between these groups and DCF. The fel-
lowship group is headed by an executive committee of
10-12 people, including a president, two large group
leaders, a small group coordinator and a service coor-
dinator. There are also approximately 40 small group
leaders.

Beyond these facts, what is DCF? DCF President Er-
ic Fichtner says: “We have a very simple objective:
spread the Gospel. This includes discipleship, evange-
lism and world missions as a part of our program.” The
group has adopted a theme this year, which they hope
will give them more direction than in the past. Tim Rit-
chie explains the theme as “the message of ‘Ephesians
4’ which emphasizes the Body of Christ.” (Ephesians
4:11: “And his gifts were that some would be apostles,
some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and
teachers . . . for building up the body of Christ, until we
all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge
of the Son of God . . .”) Tim says, “We are trying to ac-
tualize that body here at Davidson. That is why more
students should attend large group meetings as well as
participating in small groups.”

DCF is also trying to fight the idea that the organiza-
tion is dominated by a clique or an elite. Tim Ritchie
agrees that DCF may have appeared as a clique in the
past, but this year DCF is trying to be as diverse as pos-
sible. “We encourage our members to get involved in
all aspects of Davidson.” Tim also wants DCF to avoid
the problems of arrogance and personality conflicts so
that “the Gospel can challenge students and not the
group itself.” One small group leader notes, in support
of this, that often two small group leaders have dissimi-
lar views of Christianity which keep their small group
diverse. However, some students view DCF as a large
organization run by a select few. The executive com-
mittee is not elected by DCF members at large; instead
the committee selects its own replacements. Some crit-
icism of this method has arisen, but at a “large group”
meeting last year members decided not to replace the
current system. Eric Fichtner comments that he does
have some reservations about officer selection, but that
the current procedure produces an effective, dedicated
leadership. “We'll probably bring the issue up again
this year at “large group” meeting,” says Eric.

Another question frequently asked about DCF. is

whether it is Fundamentalist or not. Brad Mullis, a
large group leader, denies the suggestion that DCF be-
lieves in Fundamentalism. “We may be the only group
on campus which provides an outlet for conservative
G@hwistians, but they: are not the official voice for DCF.
No one person speaks theologically for DCF.” Brad
adds, “There is as mcuh breadth in the felloship as in
the faith.” Chris Marshburn, religion major and DCF

“To approach the Bible with an
open mind and critical attitude

is amark of Christian maturity”

member, disagrees and sees a theological stance of
DCF manifested in an antipathy toward the Religion
department. He comments: “I am disturbed about the
negative light in which the Religion department is por-
trayed by many people in DCF. There is a lot of con-
cern within their ranks about ‘purity of doctrine.’ To
approach the Bible with an open mind and critical atti-
tude is a mark of Christian maturity, not a lack of
faith.” Eric Fichtner does not think DCF advocates a
sort of “intellectual suicide, so to speak. We are meet-
ing intellectual needs at Davidson and don’t want blind
faith or obedience,” says Eric. Tentative speakers at
large group include two members of the Religion facul-
ty.

Many students are turned off by their perception of
DCF’s approach; folk music and Bible study just do not
interest some students. To this criticism Tim Ritchie
comments that less folk music and more hymns are
now used at large group meetings. This Friday John
Spangler, who spent the summer in Liberia, and Ste-
wart Wicker, DCF service coordinator, will speak at
large group. They are emphasizing DCF’s need to be
service-minded. A small group leader says, “Not all
small groups do Bible study; some discuss current
issues and others like mine avoid any set structure.” Fi-
nally, Brad Mullis comments, “If you haven’t been toa
large group meeting yet this year, don’t criticize us us-
ing four year old stereotypes. Come see for yourself.”

REXALL DRUGS

“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”

131 N. Main Street © Devideon, N.C.

. 892-0208

Snap out

of it on

Nov. 18th.

We're asking every smoker to quit for 24 hours
on Now. loth ask
for a free “ man Special Stop Smokin’ ;
Wrist Snappin’ Red

. - find that not smoking can be habit-forming.

d we'll even help. Just ask us

Rubber Band” You might

merioan Smoatengut |

This space contributed as a public service.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982

11
