Speculative Notes from Bo-Ho

While ‘attending Monday night’s wonderful per- : | ?
- formance of the Muir String Quartet, I was posessed of
--apatticualarly virtuosic bit of idle speculation: It was. |

sei,

‘of the kinid that is just right for times when one is sitting |” |

still and’ using only one’or two senses. The muse took
this form (paraphrased, of course):

What, in good compare and contrast fashion, (hav-
ing had two years of Humanities), are the differenced
in the demands made upon various genres of musical.
performers? These musicians soon divide themselves
into two speces. One js all of those that are lumped un-
der the term “classical,” hereafter referred to as “se-
rious” musicians due to the technical inadequacy and
narrow scope of “classical.” The other group is all
-those who perform music of a less technical, academic
variety — the rock and rollers, the bluegrassers, the
earnest and sincere guitarist-songwriter types. These
we shall call “regular” musicians. Of course, we must
bear-in mind that regular, like classical, is imperfect,
but basic semantics must be established.

.»» Let me say here that I wish in no way to make light
of the dedication and self-discipline that it takes to be-
come a serious-type musician. But have you ever
thought of the kinds of things that a regular musician
has to come up against in his performances that never
need cross the minds of their classical counterparts?

To begin, serious musicians are allowed, even ex-
pected, to have their music in front of them, Liszto-
philes aside. Assuming that a musician is able to read
the darn stuff, which serious musicians are always,
having music, right there would be really nice. But can
you see Joni Mitchell dragging her music stand and
pages around with her? Some charm would no doubt be
lost. Not only does a regular musician have to do with-
out concrete reference material, but he is often in a po-
sition of having to play and sing at the same time,
which mixes not only diverse physical demands but ne-
cessitates two lines of memory and stimulus-produc-
tion.

_ Add to this the headaches of technological tyranny.
Electronic feedback, short circuits, collapsing micro-
phone stands, blown fuses, and i incompetent sound en-
gineers must be faced by the regular musician with
alarming. regularity. Not so with the serious. No one
asks them to subject their lives to the vagaries of elec-

£

tronics. Consequently, one hears reports of those that

DAVIDSONIAN

_ The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Editor: Stewart Cauley A
Executive Editor: Brian Butler

News Editors: Jeffrey ste Elizabeth iat
Sports! Editor: Steve Soud

International Editors: James Gelley ,Dan Turk

re

Photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85

have gone to see Segovia i in one of those huge halls in
Madrid, and developing ear strain that affects them for
the rest of their natural lives. These techical problems
extend even to the tuning and maintenance of instru-
ments. We all love to begin an evening of serious mus-
ic consumption by listening to the orchestra tune up. If
the performances are a quartet or alone, we think no-
thing of hearing them twist pegs, suck reeds, and rattle
valves between movements or even phrases.

The doggone winds never go out of tune anyway!
And what about those brasses? If a folk singer were to
spit on the floor the way a trombone does, he would be
back in Little Rock flipping burgers in no time. Regu-
lar bands are rarely so patiently dealt with in this re-
gard. Not only do they have to get back in tune in a hur-
ry — they usually feel obliged to make jokes and be
clever while they are going their twisting, turning, and
listening. This usually results in a lot of foolish one-lin-

a

~ Fine Arts Editor: Debby. Williams

Calendar Editor: Susan Graves

PRORO Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Levis James hicpie: ‘Jeff Herrin, Lisa neisiias:

James Rozzelle

ers like “Well, shucks. It was in tune when I bought it.”
This brings on the topic of audience relations, which

will be dealt with momentarily. tes

The great Nicolo Paganini was almost as. famous for

» his flamboyant ways so for his superhuman violin play-

ing and composing. His frequent breaking, of strings
was taken as‘a sign of unleashed power and. unbridled

| passion for the music. Not so for the others. When the

ghar,

_ urgency of that situation is not one of romantic: exhub-

erance, but of getting the damn string replaced before
the joke ends.

The most interesting aspect of this polarity iis that of
to what degree the performer must relate to his au-
dience. Those musicians of the serious persuasion are
not expected to try to create any rapport with their au-
diences. They know that their patrons will sit attentive-
ly ‘and quietly, that they will not leave until the end,
that they will applaud appropriately, and that they will
not show any displeasure, no matter how miediocre or
just plain bad he may be up to a point. After all, we
don’t have Music 121 for nothing. It is rare that these
performers must worry. about flying projectiles. Hah.
Not only must regular musicians court and keep their
audiences, but they must also bear barrages of requests
for songs they hate, keep one eye on the door (to make
sure more people are coming in than going out), and, in.
particularly bleak instances, keep the other to the skies.

_Fight your way through a bass solo on ‘Grandfather’s

Clock” with beer cans falling out of the lights some
time and you’ll relate.

Finally, what of the appearance of the performer
himself? If a serious musician or composer looks a bit
extreme, it is attributed to his accentric, artistic detach-
ment from the temporal. Liszt’s dramatic profile and
Beethovens flying hair are now trademarks of their ge-
nius. If, on the other hand, popular (regular) performer
looks like a goofball, it only means that his hype men
will have to use some visual advertisement other than
photos of the performer to sell him to the public. While
the regular musician must deal with variables of hair
length, dress and demeanor; and make the right choi-
ces, the serious music — player needs only a dark suit
or tuxedo. And of course his music stand. .

Perhaps most interesting of all this tradition is that
none of it has anything to do with actual music.

rere By John Hartman ‘82

Photographers: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Neil
Cooksey, Eric Long. Kelly Sundberg

Staff: Mark Sheffietd, John: Hartman, Lucy Everett,
Jeff Holland, John Verdi, Aune Goodwin, John
Krotchko, John Lusk, Lisa Buckley, Ivy Goodman
Graphics: Susan Myers |

Advertising Manager: Karis Hernstein

Old Hand: Killer

‘lin ila ins tin ts

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982
