|

A Reply to Van Beck:

Were I not frustrated in my desire to read a bal-
anced campus newspaper where caustic, ideological
pens at least support their arguments with undistorted
evidence, reflection, and real insight, I might stay out
of the fray. However, last week’s opinions column by
Van Beck on the Salvadoran elections relied in part on
such distortions, inaccuracies, and fallacious argu-
ment. As a member of the Davidson Coalition on El
Salvador (though I do not speak for the Coalition), I
would like to respond to some of Beck’s inaccurate and
illogical allegations about the group, and examine
more closely some issues Beck raises about the Salvad-
oran crisis itself.

Beck criticizes the American left and U.S. “pres-

sure groups,” such as the Coalition, as irresponsible -

and politically idealistic for rejecting the elections and
not “supporting” Duarte and the Christian Democrats,
which he claims contributed somehow to the success of
rightists in the election.

Unfortunately, what Beck’s argument amounts to
is criticism of U.S.-“pressure groups” for not voting for
Duarte in the El Salvador elections. Rather more unfor-
tunate is that we weren’t invited to vote in the EI Salva-
dor elections at all. Frankly, it seems a little silly to
blame Americans. who didn’t vote in El. Salvador’s
elections for the election results. I can’t quite see how
our “support” would’ ve made any difference except on
the U. S. domestic political scene. Duarte was ob-
viously the choice of the Reagan Administration,
which has far more influence in E] Salvador than the
Coalition, and their hopes that Duarte would get a clear
mandate and gain political. leverage were clearly
voiced. Short of sending Haig to a Salvadoran polling
booth, there wasn’t much more the Administration
‘could have done. to support Duarte (assuming CIA
coups and fraud were out of the question). I suppose
the Coalition. could have lent moral support, but I im-
agine the Salvadoran peasants don’t read the New York
Times or the Washington. Post, and it really isn’t possi-

ble to. send telegrams to the “Salvadoran Voters At .

Large.”
“..« the ole of | the pea-
sants ag be like a tank of gas

Ts e4 0

be:

\ Tee ee Sr an a Ge.
‘rent U.S. policy on El Salvador with with the American left.
“In the case of the Coalition (and fmany religious s and
peace groups involved in El Salvador protests), this is
just inaccurate. Contrary to Beck’s statement, the Coa-
lition never said it supports or would support “a candi-
date left of center not tainted by a Marxist-Leninist lab-

el.” Deis — was the sacip eta candidate

supported by the outlawed Salvadoran Communist
Party (PCS) in 1972, and is thus presumably “tainted”
by Marxist-Leninism, the Coalition does not oppose
Duarte or his party. TheCoalition merely questioned

whether Duarte could hold onto enough power in the ©

pre-election junta dominated by the rightist military to
implement any real reforms.

What the Coalition did oppose were-the elections
themselves. First of all, elections seem unrealistic (if
not preposterous) during a civil war, where there is wi-
despread fear of violence and repression from both
sides and leftists are virtually assured of assassination
if they dare to campaign. I would like to see Van Beck
vote during a civil war where conservative candidates
are threatened with death if they campaign, voting is
compulsory, and conservative sympathizers are rou-

_tinely found tortured and killed, while first conserva-

tive guerillas and then liberal soldiers take over his
home town. Even without a trace of fraud; I doubt he
would consider the elections a viable means to a “real-
istic political solution.”

Though we opposed the elections, the Coalition did
not ignore them as Beck claims; quite the contrary, we
participated with 23 ,000 others ina Washington, D.C.
rally to protest U.S. policy on El Salvador and dispute
the validity of the elections scheduled the next day.

Futhermore, although the Coalition considered
elections now a very unrealistic means to a political so-
lution, they were not “written off as meaningless.” Ev-
en if they are not valid indicators of the will of the Sal-
vadoran people, they mean something—the difficulty
lies in determining what. What did the vote really
mean? Do most Salvadorans really want a rightist go-
vernment, or favor D’Aubisson’s “scorched earth”
policy? If not, why did they vote the way they did?
Several possible explanations for the way the vote went
come to mind: fear of repression, undetected intimida-
tion; a desire for peace and security at any cost, accom-
panied by a perception that the right is most able to stop
the crossfire if not the violence; the charisma of
D’Aubisson; a desire to vote for something different,
instead of incumbent Duarte’s party: a desire to vote
for Something. as. opposed to nothing—voting a blank
ballot or not voting at all as guerrillas asked; or maybe
just anget at the guerrilla bullets whizzing by that day.

> A final reason might be that, considering El Salvador’s |
‘history of fraud, Salvadorans felt the right was bound

to win or later stage:a ‘coup if they didn’t, so Why not
“20 with the flow” and at Teast not: make enemies with

one group.

Quite honestly, I don’t think anyone ‘iow i

the real reasons are. Even a high voter turnout doesn’t
always indicate much, and in ‘this case, voting” was
mandatory anyway. For example, ree Vie
mese elections had a record tumout of 81 | Tce nt.

___ Opinions

but then went right back to work supporting the guerril-
las (Central American Information Office, El Salvador
1982: Elections Without Choice, March 1982).

Given the problems of sorting out “facts” from pro-
paganda, and of getting reliable facts during a civil war
in the first place, it is critical to examine the complexi-
ties of El Salvador’s present mess with reflection, not
merely ideology. El Salvador is a real problem, not
merely an occassion for scoring points against one’s
ideological opponents.

‘ ... it seems a little silly to
blame Americans who didn‘t
vote in El Salvador‘s election
for the results ... ”

The Coalition is trying to approach the E] Salvador
issue with this effectiveness. It was formed with three
purposes: first, to provide information, including dif-
ferent interpretations of the crisis; second, to focus at-
tention on the issue and promote discussion; and third,
to offer opportunities for people to act and express their
concern to:'U.S. policymakers and the public. The in-
itial response from the Davidson community was that
though people were interested in the issue, many felt
they didn’t know enough about El Salvador to under-
stand the crisis and intelligently evaluate U.S. policy.
That this lack of informedness is a national problem is
indicated by the recent Newsweek poll which states that
out of 755 adults interviewed by phone, only 411 knew
which side the U. S. was backing (March 1, 1982, p.
19).

Compounding these problems the media and the
current administration have reinforced two myths that
distort the current'crisis: the myth that the El Salvador
is merely a proxy war between superpowers, and the
myth that the Salvadoran crisis is peasant revolution
springing from the masses.

The myth of El Salvador as merely an arena for
East-West confrontation is a theme increasingly
pushed by the Reagan administration, at times to their
embarrassment. According to this myth, the current

“struggle in El Salvador is just another example of ag-
pression between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Paint-
ing El Salvador this way completely ignores the histor-
ical roots of the struggle, digmisses the internal dynam-
ics, and masks the basic need for fundamental and last-
‘ing ‘changes in ‘the political, social, and economic
Structure of Salvadoran: Society. Whether Cubans,
French, or Laplande ies al ot iat

Chitittied on page 10

