Acquaintance Rape
Seminar Held

Awareness increases through informative talk

By ANN MEADOR ’85

The Women’s Concerns Committee
sponsored a seminar on the problem of
“date-rape” November 30 at Warner
Hall.

Speaking to a group of over 40 stu-
dents, Jan Kenney, from the Victim As-
sistance Center in Charlotte, and Dr,
John Wheeler, a counselor at Davidson
College, probed this phenomenon
which, Kenney says, “really does hap-
pen” at Davidson. :

‘Acquaintance rape,” said Kenney,
“is not like rape by a stranger.” Because
the victim knows her assailant, date
rape generates problems different those
encountered in cases of stranger rape.

“Date rape, in a limited definition,
is a sex act performed against the wom-
an’s will,” Kenney said, “and will is a
hard word to define.” Proving that the
woman did not want to participate in the
act presents another obstacle. Accord-
ing to Kenney, North Carolina sex as-
sault laws changed in 1980, reducing
what was called a sexual offense to an
assault on a female in cases where the
two parties know each other. “The
chances of prosecuting a date rape are
not very good,” Kenney said.

Wheeler examined possible motiva-
tions for commiting date rape. “Men
have bad trips laid on them about their
sexuality. Communication problems

By ANN MEADOR ’85

Disturbed by what she considers
the naive attitudes expressed at the 30
Nov. date rape seminar, a Davidson
date rape victim volunteered to relate
her experience to The Davidsonian.

“Things [like date rape] really do
happen to people at Davidson Col-
lege,” said Louise (not her real
name), and that is a basic point she
wants to emphasize.

For her, date rape began as a part
of one of the big weekends of her
freshman year. Her date was not tech-
nically a date, she said; she had spent
time with him from the start of the

such as confusion between a woman’s
‘yes’ and ‘no’ make it hard for a guy to
know what to believe.”

The media, Wheeler says, gives no
help in showing how male-female rela-
tionships should work. In many cases,
television programs project the impor-
tance of machoism and assertiveness,
programs which often justifying vio-
lence at the same time.

Another possible motivation for
date rape involves the high academic
pressure in a college community. Such

‘It can happen here’

school year, yet the relationship had
remained platonic the entire time. Be-
fore going out that night, Louise
found herself alone with him in Ho-

bart Park. “We started kissing, but he _

was really drunk. I think he had been
drinking all afternoon,” she said. Be-
fore long, he overpowered her, mak-
ing it impossible for Louise to avert
the rape. ‘Finally I kicked him and bit
him enough to where he left me
alone.” After the rape, she returned to
her room, unsure if he even realized
what he had done.

The next day, Louise says, “I
knew I was trying to deny something,
because I got drunk that afternoon to

pressure creates great tension, said
Wheeler, and men are taught that sex is
a good way to release that tension. Ken-
ney calls the result “stress sex,” the
product of academic pressure, possible
alcohol abuse, a high sex drive with few
acceptable outlets. “There are lots of
prohibitions set up here [at Davidson],”
Wheeler said.

According to Kenney, a woman’s
recovery from date rape depends on the
amount of support she receives. “The
speed and quality of a woman’s recov-

avoid thinking about it.” But when
evening came and she faced a date
with another man, she broke down,
unable to see him. “My hall counse-
lors pulled me through that week-
end,” she says.

The Monday after the assault,
Louise’s hall counselors sent her to
the Davidson Counseling and Gui-
dance center, but, she says, “the
quick support wasn’t there.” Instead

of giving her comfort and reassu-

rance, Louise says, “I felt like | was
on trial.” She was shuffled from doc-
tors to psychologists, yet she never
felt she was supported or comforted

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December.1982°'

ery from a rape depends on the kind and
amount of support she receives imme-
diately after the rape happens.”

Talking about the rape is one of the
most difficult things for a victim to do;
feelings of guilt often come after a rape,
and the possibility that the assailant
might retaliate often stifle a victim’s de-
sire to talk. However, if she can talk
about it, a crucial part of recovery de-
pends on the immediate support she re-
ceives. “More support systems are
needed to help women in these situa-
tions,” said Kenney.

“Date rape is one of the most pre-
ventable forms of sexual assault,” Ken-
ney said, “and also one of the most diffi-
cult to prevent. No external protection
will help; a woman’s behavior is what
prevents it.” One of Kenney’s strongest
exhortations was, “Trust your gut.
Women’s intuition will get you
through.”

Kenney emphasized the importance
of assertiveness in controlling what hap-
pens sexually on campus. “Women are
trained to be gentle, kind, to ‘stroke
[men’s] egos,’ and often they end up in
tough situations,” Kenney said. “Wom-
en need to define their danger signals-
—their personal limits of feeling com-
fortable with a man—and they must as-
sert their right to be left alone when
those limits are reached.”’

by anyone other than her hall counse-
lors. She missed a term of school as a
result of the rape.

This experience has caused
Louise great pain; for some time after
the rape, seeing her assailant around
campus petrified her. Today, howev-
er, she can handle seeing him on a
day-to-day basis. “Now, two years
later, I want to tie up all the loose
ends,” she says. In recounting this ex-
perience, Lquise emphasizes two ba-
sic beliefs, that the counseling center
here failed to help her recover at all,
and that date rape “does not just hap-
pen to bad girls.”

