News Shorts

Three Professors Will Not Return

Next Year

Several professors already know
that they won’t be returning to Davidson
next year. English Professor Ann
McMillan and Humanity Professor Pat
Edmondson did not have their contracts
renewed for next year. Art Professor
Melinda Lesher resigned to do inde-
pendent research. All three professors
should finish the year.

The College is creating a new posi-
tion in the political science department
using funds from a:-Mellon Foundation
grant, according to Dean of Academic
Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann. The
new professor will also teach half-time
in the Humanities program. Despite the
recommendation of the Humanities De-
partment, the College decided to make
an offer to another candidate for the po-
sition. The candidate has turned down
the College’s offer, and the political
science department is considering other
applications.

Prof. Edmondson did not yet know
what she would be doing next year,
though she ‘is considering law. school. “I
don’t intend to sit on a shelf,” she said.
Her husband, Prof. Earl Edmondson, is
a tenured professor of history.

Prof. McMillan declined to com-
ment on or confirm: her non-renewal.
She has another year left on her contract
and could return next year.

There are also several visiting pro-
fessors who do not expect to be teachifig

at Davidsonnext year. The College will —

decide later on an -individual basis
whether to offer them another visiting or
assistant professorship.

by Jeffrey Mann ’84

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

David Shi smiles proudly about his
book, Matthew Josephson, Bourgeois
Bohemian , because it was nominated
for a Pulitzer prize. Yale University
Press, Shi‘s publisher was responsible
for the nomination.

The College Bow! intramural com-
petition ended last Tuesday, January
11, with a double elimination tourna-
ment beteew STUD and I PHELTA
THI. Senior STUDs Andy Brown, Jim
Cheek, Bob Trobich and Rob Gillson
entered the fray with a 5-0 record, los-
ing their first match of the season to the
freshmen team 140-205. Rob Gillson
credited the loss to poor respose to bo-

nus questions. STUD rallied in the se-
cond match to beat Ross Hoit, Bob Lop-
er, Rod Molinare ‘and John Laughlin
235-150. In addition, STUD. members
Andy Brown and Bob Trobich and |
PHELTA THI‘s Ross Hoit were
awarded All-Star status. The All-Star
team also includes Tim Wamples (Beef
Trust) and Will Berson (NOLO:_CON-
TENDRER).

Photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85

On Friday January 8, the last of the
$2300 embezzled from a campus organ-
ization was returned.*The student re-
sponsible for the embezzling paid the
balance in the form of a check for $115.

This week the College Union spon-

_ sored a “Scarce World Resourses Sym-
 posium.” The schedule of events in-

cluded an open discussion about United

States resources and a taped presenta- .
"tion concerning nuclear emergency on
Tuesday; Open luncheon featuring a

look at population growth on Wednes-

“ day.

me

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN /Friday 22 January 1982

SGA Now

Delivering
Campus Mail

The SGA began a program this fall to
deliver mail on camous for no postage
fee. According to SGA Vice-President
Chip Hurley, the System “has worked
really well since Thanksgiving.” Aver-
aging sixty pieces a day, the service is
open to students, faculty and adminis-
tration.

Chip picks up the mail daily at.3:00
p.m. from the mailbox located in the
faculty mail room. This is part of his
work-study job. He then delivers the
mail to dorm rooms and offices on cam-
pus. The mail must be in envelopes with
the recipient’s name, building, and
room number. Chip asked that the send-
er include his return address.

The service does not deliver to Patter-
son Court, perimeter or off-campus
housing. Chip asked for suggestions
from students to improve the system.
He encouraged students and faculty to
use the service.

Lucy Everett ’85
