Madison Manhandles Cats 35-7

By SCOTT HUIE ’85

Throw in a fumble, a missed block-
ing assignment, a defensive lapse, and

maybe a penaity or two, and what do’

you have? One might call it Davidson’s

game plan, especially after seeing 12th-.

ranked James Madison manhandle the
Cats 35-7 last Saturday before 2800
spectators.

“Sure enough,” Coach Ed Farrell
said, “it’s making those big mistakes
that’s killing us. Heck, we were down
18-7 at halftime but completely domi-
nated the first half.”

From the opening drive, the Wild-
cats were on a roll. From their own 16-
yard line, the Cats methodically
marched to the Dukes’ two, gaining
seven first downs and eating up eight
minutes from the clock. But a delay-of-
game penalty put Davidson back to the
seven, and Chip Knox’s field: goal at-
tempt fell inches wide.

Madison assumed control on its en-
suing 80-yard drive. On the sixth play of
the drive, the Duke halfback took the
option around left and scampered 59
yards for the score.

But the Cats did not fall over and
play dead just then. Ir the second quar-
ter Davidson sustained an 85-yard drive
thanks to two pass interference penalties
worth 50 yards. Fullback Bob Miller
took it over from the two, and Knox’s
conversion was good.

Then Davidson played dead pos-
sum. Instead of inserting the punt-return
team on a Madison fourth down, Farrell
kept his ‘defense in. “We wanted to be
conservative,” the coach said, “and we
thought they might have the fake on.”

The fake was not on. Freshman cor-
nerback Stockton Whitten fumbled the
punt in the end zone, and Madison fell
on the ball for the score.

It got no prettier. Linebacker Stone
Bynum, who has a knack for intercept-
ing passes, got his first of the game deep
in Davidson territory. But in trying to
make the big play, he tossed a flicker-

Club Lacrosse Beats Elon 5-4,

ball lateral which found nothing but
ground, and the Dukes recovered. On
the next play Madison’s halfback bolted
16 yards around left end for the score.

Halftime score: Madison 18, David-
son 7. First downs: Davidson 16, Madi-
son 8.

Quarterback Keith Martin injured
his ankle late in the first half, and re-
placement Jeff Haney took over the
helm only to be greeted by a sack on the
first play. In the second half things just
got worse. The offense eked out a meas-
ly nine yards until late in the fourth
quarter when Haney’s only completion
in six attempts was a 41-yard screen
play to halfback Leonard Walker.

The Dukes, on the other hand,
racked up a 35-yard field goal and two
more touchdowns, one on a 64-yard
pass completion and the other on a 25-
yard drive set up by a Davidson fumble.

Surprisingly, the Cats led in first
downs 20 to 18. But as Farrell stated,
“On two plays they gained 120 yards for
two TDs. Take those away, and we
practically played them even.” Madison
led in rushing yardage, 307 to 121, and

passing yardage 112 to 97. One costly -

Statistic was the Wildcats’ three fum-
bles, a of which led directly to JMU
touchdowns.

On the individual side, Walker
turned into a workhorse, rushing for 79
yards in 25 attempts. Defensively, end
D.E. Wright and linebacker Mike Jones
performed admirably, totalling 13 and
12 tackles, respectively.

The defeat was not the only loss for

the Cats. Although the Dukes may not
have been the Plague, they did leave the
Wildcats crippled with injury, particu-
larly on offense. Martin is out one to
two weeks with a badly sprained ankle.
Second stringer Haney will take charge,
but according to Farrell, “needs more
work in practice.” Bob Miller, already
slowed up by an ankle injury, suffered a
shoulder sprain but will probably play.
Tackle Charles Hooker strained his
back and is also probable. And Corner-
back Keith Ellis is out at least one week
with strained ligaments.

Tomorrow, the Cats face NAIA foe
Guilford College (2-2), who is coming
off a 31-0 trounce of Salisbury State.
Farrell .said, “Three things about this
game concern me: 1) Guilford always

throws an offense at us which is difficult
to defend; 2) they just came off a big
win, and I’m sure they relish the chal-
lenge of taking on an NCAA Div. IAA
team like ourselves; and 3) I’m still con-
cerned about Davidson. I’ve said it
many times, but we do have the poten-
tial to be a really good football team.
We just need to gain confidence.”

So far the team appears not to have
let the recent heartbreaker phase their

_ emotional intensity.

I believe this will be their week. It’s
time for the offense to jell, despite the
loss to Martin, and the defense to fill
those gaps. Look for the Cats to win big.

Huie’s Prediction: Davidson 31, Guil-
ford 17

Senior Captain Leonard Walker scampers upfield on

one of 25 carries Saturday en route to a to a 79-yard day.

to 2-1

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN/S October 1982

14
