Volume LCXIL, Number 13.

Internatior

mittee Confusion

. Davidson’s first International Week
(Jan.. 13-16) may. have passed without
much general notice, but for the fled-
gling Internation Committee, it meant a
lot..Co-chairmen Pam Hawkins and Sue
Roberts arranged activities including a
panel discussion on South Asia, a pizza
dinner, and videotaped interviews with
international sutdents. which met with
varying degrees of success. Still, Inter-
national Week was experimental in ‘na-
ture and exposed tensions which had
been’ brewing within the Committee
since the fall.

According to Hawkins and Roberts,

‘from the beginning communication was

poor and goals undefined...The first
meeting of fall term drew over sixty stu-
dents and professors. British student
Ant Goode, who attended the meeting
said, “Lots of suggestions were thrown
out but nothing was decid

‘Pam and Sue both said there were too
many people at the meeting to effect any
clear organization of objectives. “Our
biggest mistake was we tried to make all
of those sixty people into a committee,”
Pam said.

Members had diverse opinions about
the committee’s aims. Cypriot Melis
Nicolaides felt that the committee
should have been responsible for the so-
cialization of the international students
who come to Davidson, by providing,

“more excursions” and “an idea about
what to do on breaks. and during the
summer.” He stressed that the commit-

tee should be available for any problem

that an international student might. en-
counter.
~ Jolin Hackett, oe Ireland, felt the
Conair should not have attempted
to group.znternational | students together
often. He “disagreed with what he
saw as.a. committee goal in. over-em-
phasizing cultural differences. “The
purpose is to come: over [to the States]
and ‘say that cen we're all the
: same,” he said...

tude snt advisor Dean Sue

Ross attempted to explain part of the
conflict involving committee goals. She
mentioned that some of the international
students “felt that the committee was
formed. just’ for them.” Co-chairman
Roberts. also suggested that the interna-
tional students might have formed mis-
conceptions about the aims of the com-
mittee because of the original amount of

attention focused on them—by the co-.

chairman—when they first arrived.
Accordingly, several international
students complained of being neglected
in meetings and of frustration with the
organization -of events... John. Hackett

‘said, “somietimes they'd hold meetinigs’

and you’d.never even hear about them.”
However, Hawkins and Roberts assert-

_ ed that announcement posters had been

hung in advance of every meeting.

When International Week arrived,
communication problems
“None of us were consulted about what
was going on,” John Hackett said. “No
one told me anything about Internation-
al Week,” Ant Goode added.

Despite the. tensions, .most interna-
tional students said that they enjoyed the
pizza dinner and some, like Helen
Thorpe from England, volunteered their
services and took an active part in the

events. Students noted that throughout.

the week, and in general all year, Da-
vidsonians remained open and friendly.

~-Hawkins and Roberts admitted that they
expected the international students to.

take mofe initiative in-the planning of
events. “We never offered... They never
asked. Where does the blame fall?” Ro-
berts noted. —.

Organizational difficulties which
plagued the committee often gave vise

to. personality - conflicts .that. further.
_ $tifled. communication between interna-

tional students and the co-chairmen.
Nevertheless both chairmen were posi-
tive about the group of international stu-
dents this year.

Continued on page §

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Elizabeth Elkin ‘85.

Photo

peaked.

i 4 .
ts 2
? ff ¢
N b
LU o

The Officers of several Patterson
Court houses are concerned about the
effect a proposed all-women’s eating
house would have on their houses. The
Council on Campus and Religious Life
recommended to College President Sam
Spenser that the College charter a new
house. The presidents of Emanon and
ETC are now against the proposal, al-
though they signed a letter endorsing it
in the October 23, 1981 Davidsonian.
They find that the present demand for
eating house spaces with the uncertainty
of the Commons’ effect on Patterson
Court membership, does not justify set-
ting up an eleventh eating house. Presi-
dent Spencer is expected to make a deci-
sion when he returns to. campus next
Wednesday. Dean of Students Wil! Ter-
ry, Chairman of the CCRL, said that no
study of the effects of anew eating
house on the membership of existing
houses has been conducted.

. Dean Terry defends the recommenda-
tion. He sees the issue as the conflict of
two philosophies. “There are those who

..would force the pattern of coed eating,

and. also.a. great.many students. who
want all-women’s or all-men’s eating
houses, as evidenced by the success of

Friday 29 January 1982

Rusk ene Geesees,-| he bom awe

ES ee A dae Bai Pecan baie ty ne i oy

House Proposal
Controversial

don’t want to use Patterson Court to
force the ‘socialization of students in.
ways they don’t want. A house should
be able to stand on its own feet.” While
he feels that there is sufficient support
for another all-women’s house, one of
the present houses may have to fold.
Jane Alexanian, who co-authored
with Anne Rollins and Kathy Kooker,

"the proposal, said that 50 freshmen and

20 upperclassmen have made a firm
commitment to join the house. Since
only two of these women are currently
members of coed eating houses, “it will
not hurt any eating house,” she said.
Business Manager Bob Currié recom-
mended that the CCRL require a two-
year commitment from 75 girls before
chartering the eating house. He said that
it may, cost $30,000 to refurnish Ri-
chards or Bailey House as an eating
house. Less than half of the tot
would be spent on the kitchen, he said,
although some. of the: ‘original equip-
ment which ARA Slater used, is still in
the houses. If one.of the existing eating
houses were to fold, he said, its kitchen
equipment c..ould be used as, replace-
ments in the remaining houses, al-

Contigued on

Pris Nee

Ce" . ‘

“4 ‘i poe

