There is constant siivadians passing, ‘
shooting, blocking out, reboundi

moving without the ball, ‘On an occa- .
sional halt in ( play, players bend at the -
waist gasping for more oxygen. Beads

of sweat trickle from their brows. Even

those in ‘the best of shape. feel the fa-

tigue. It practically lingers in the air.
Undeniably basketball practice is not

the most exciting and worthwhile aspect

of the sport. It is the actual game that

counts, the time when the.popcorn starts.

popping and when the thunderous roar
of a packed Johnston Gym signals a 20
foot swish by a Wildcat guard. The
game, afterall, is what it is all about.
But for sophomore Frank Johnson,
there is little such glory, In fact he

doesn’t even capture the thrill of shoot-..
ing pre-game lay ups. Clad in a red ,
sweater, he simply sits.at.the end of the:

bench recopdipg Wildcat satistics stor
now.

He practicés ‘with the: ears on ‘en-
dures the whole treatment:, strenuous -

Second Half Irish oe Boosts _
Dame over Davidson |

All good tiliaes must.come to an end;
and so it was with a 10 point Wildcat.
lead over. the\Fighting ‘Irish of Notre

Dame in hoops action soneaay in South.

Bend.
- The Wildcats oni do little wrong in
the first half as. they shot a'phenomenal
64% from the field. Meanwhile the

slumping Irish, 2-9: and trying: to. pull,
out of a five game losing skid (all onthe ©
road) couldn’t crack the tight Davidson .

zone defense. Put the two together, and
Davidson came up with a 10 point lead.

.. Then, with 3:43 left in the first half,.
the lead started to come to,an.end, and.

by halftime it was history. Notre Dame,
behind the. hot hands of Cecil Rocker
and Ron Rowan, had’ ted the game at
27.

The second half was all Noize Dame, .

and it wasn’t all the luck-of the Irish.
The majority of Davidson's 13 turnovers

1g for the Stars of Pro Ball, But He Hasn't Left .

drilling; sliooting; defending, ‘jumping,

an occasional elbow.to the ribs. But be-"

cause he: transferred: to Davidson from

Belmont ‘Abbey’ this: year; the ‘NCAA

says he must sit out’a Season: Neverthe-
less, he continues. The only glory he ex-

periences is perhaps a dunk in practice,

a spéctacle only his teammates witness.
According to:him, ‘however, his:ef-

. forts are’ well- worth the time. “I’m just
_ thrilled to be here”, he says. “If you had

told‘me a year ago I'd be at Davidson
College, I would have just laughed.

Sure I’m giving up something, but I feel __
the returns on this investment williprove

to be much better than the penalty. My
time will come. I'll just have to be ready
for it.”

Being ready appeals a cinch. Frank
boasts a whopping: 39” vertical jump
and at 6’3” has a shooting touch which
can rival that of any big guard around.

n¢both his junior and senior years ‘at

Garringer High School in Charlotte, he

“opted All-Conference honors while

came “in the second half, and Notre

Dame’s: superior rebounding became
- painfully obvious as the Irish more than

doubled: (31-15) Davidison’s haul,. Re-

‘bounding has been an Achilles’ heel for

Davidson all season. Davidson’s se-
ond half shooting was around 40% as
well,

By. the:end of; ‘the. first. half. Notre
Dame had swung the momentum its

_ way, and.a 14-4 spurt in the first 12 min-

utes of the secorid half sealed the Wild-
cat fate. Davidson in the midst of a five
game road trip, ‘eaten to 6-10 with
45-59 loss.

Tomorrow the Cats Visit Marshall as

they seek revenge for the Herd’s last se-

cond win here. From Huntington they _

travel directly to ‘Lexington, Virginia,
where .they. will..meet VMI. in the
Keydets’ Cameron Area.

averaging : 18 points dnd 10 tebounds a
game. Highly recruited by Coach Hus-
sey at Belmont Abbey, he disappointed
no one by getting extensive playing time
asafteshmen: = —

Frank’s' background is typical of that
of most ‘Davidson’students. He grew up
ina poor section of Charlotte, and his
father had to scratch and scrounge to
keep: the family. comfortable. “We
were, still are, financially poor,” he
says. "But I did have a happy child-
hood. We had the basics, clean clothes
and food. Most importantly, I was in a
home full of Christian love.’The fact
that we did not have a lot actually
brought us closer.”

Frank loved to:play: basketball in. the
park. But in the seventh grade, he
claims, he was the worst player on the
team, had big’ feet, was clumsy.

That summer his parents saved-$90 and

sent him to the UNCC basketball camp.
Frank returned and the next year took
MVP honors of the junior varsity.

et

(exit 30 - off 1-77)

From then to now he has retained one
goal, a destination which typifies) any-
one’s boyish aspirations. “I wanttopplay
professional. basketball,” he says: “I
know: the chances are slim, but {have
faith that I’m here now, and I'd like to
play. ball so perhaps I could help,them
out financially for all they’ve done for
me.”

If he does not make it into the ioroies-
sional ranks, Frank knows he will-have
a Davidson degree to fall back on: ; hope-
fully one in economics.

“You have: to take ‘it. one day-at a
time,” he:says. ‘I don’t know whats in
store for the future, and that’s why. my
education is so important. People need
to be prepared to face. adversity, and I
want to be ready.”

\
ys

by Scott Huie ’85

OW SEI aoe LUNCH |

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982.
