Film Reviews With Debbie Eisenbise

at

F

Rous bk i aoatie is a marve-

lous asortment of tragic drama and light.

even the

‘individual “a

let all those lat-

ent emotions surge fo Although not
all of these will challenge the intellect,
there is enough of that in. our everyday
lives to be able to forego it now and then

in our entertainment. Fine Films. which

has gained a sense of humor this term is =.
responsible for some fun that:is open to .

all. The string began. with last week's
Harry and Tonto and will continue with
next Monday’s showing of Volpone and

with Bedazzled on April 6. ‘Two serious ©

and thought-provoking ‘films Tess
(March 26) and Breaker Morant (Aptil

2) prone = belatioes fox. there oe

oe eto on Thomas Hardy’s Tess"

of the d@’ Urbervilles) unfolds scene by
scene just as the novel does, constantly
holding one in'suspense. Each new epi-
sode comes upon the viewer-as a mo-
ment in his own life ‘would, as some-

thing based on-what' one has'made of
oneself, , yet as an event t that could never
be .

Tess’ story is a woman’s story. It is
about a person who is never the primary
actor in her own life, but who is manipu-
lated by her family, her seducer and her
husband, and who is torn. apart by her

struggle to maintain her own self image :

against all of the societat ‘values she has

near

‘in the reading of Haire original work.

‘come to adopt. Fin utter desperation she
_ finally acts on her own behalf, sealing
‘While the story is amarvelous tragic
drama, exquisitely acted by novice Nas-
tassia Kinski and an excellent cast, the
S S ‘outstanding, feature is» the

peo cinamatogra-

The location which Polanski set the sto-

~- ry and how well it is captured on film

provide 'a paradoxically calm stage on
which the intense emotions of the story
are stagés:;

If you did happen to miss this film,
pick up Hardy’s novel and vow not to

miss the next Pop Film, which is Break-
er Morant, a movie of equal calliber to

Tess.

The Australian film industry that
provided us last year with My Brillant
Career has turned out another: outstand-
ing filmin Breaker Morant: It i is one of
the most t intelligent, yet heart rendering

SUMMER J08 OPENINGS FOR. CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys)
Serving. as a camp:counselor is a
»hallenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young”
Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and °
Character: development camps located on<the coast of North
1, Carolina and feature: sailing, motorboating, and seamanship,
-oplus many. usual camping activities including a wide variety
Qualifications include a genuine interest
in. young. people, ability to instruct in one phase of the
-camps' programs, and excellent ‘references. ,
_ information and application, please write a brief resume'. of
neeceame and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, .
Camps | san PLL aPR Obes P, O. Box 30976, Raleigh,

and Camp: Seafarer .(girls) <

vipeople,: (ages. T-16..

--of major sports.

Direct
North Carolina 27

films that one can see this term. Unlike
Tess which has somewhat of a story
book air’about it; Breaker Morant is.a
realistic drama, an actual moment out of
history from the start.

It is the story of the court martial of
three men who are tried for commiting
murder in the Boer war. It is the same
senerio that was still being played in the
Vietnam war; one that pwots around the
problem of spoken commands, and the
question of who really is guilty in war.
Jack Thompson wqon the award for the
best supporting actor in the Cannes In-
ternational Film Festivel for his role as
the novice lawyer sent to defend the
three men. The three Australian volun-
teers including the characters George
Whitten, Breaker Morant and Peter
Hancock became’ scapegoats for the
British in an attempt to keep pro-Boer
Germany out of the war.

The audience is drawn into the char-
acters’ situation and can share in their
thense anxiety as memories of a pleas-
ant past ‘are juxtaposed with an uncer-
tain future. The movie is a tight weave
of narrative and flashback that in no way
disturbs ‘the flow of the storyline, but
heightens one’s awareness of the char-
acters’ states of mind so that one be-
comes emeshed within the action.

This isa fast and powerful film, yet
it remains realistic and believable. It is

emotionally: draining but leaves one

wanting to see it again.
After:a few days rest we turn to the

lighter side for entertainment with Mau-

ricé Tourner’s fiml version of Volpone

(Mon. April 5; 8 pm.). Adapted from
Ben: Johnson’s moralistic story about

decadence and greed, the movie takes
little thought as it predicatably moves
forward and the man whose money is
gained by swindling gets swindled him-
self.

The story line is mot of terrific inter-
est, but hte movie is well worth seeing
for its humorous attributes. The intrigue
and deception becomes more and more
complex and increasingly more ridicu-

‘lous as the movie progresses. And

throughout, each character who began
as a shallow fool becomes more of a true
buffoon giving up all for glorious mo-
ney. The film is quite dated but the
roughness only adds to the humor, if
one does not look too critically for logi-
cal answers in the changing of scenes
and the progression of time.

For those of you who are Franco-
philes, Ben Johnson fans or three
stooges connisseurs. (an odd trio, to be
sure) you will thoroughly enjoy the wit-
ty Volpone.

Following in the footsteps of this
week’s Harry and Tonto, Dudley
Moore presents to us another comedy
centered around one man’s search to
find h imself. Moore who stars in his
own adaptation of Faust finds his way to
happiness through a quick deal with the
Devil (Peter Cooke). Bedazzled is a silly
movie with no great und “lyiung moral
to be found. There’s not a serious mo-
ment in the film and in going one is in
for two hours of immersion in laughter.
It’ § a great way to break up the week and

let yourself go!

"Debbie Eisenbise ‘82

For further. .

"Serving Davidson For Siitoes Yea"

- Rumell Stover Candies

131 N. Main Street © Davidson, N.C.

20

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982
