Booze Brothers Taken For Dead

We would like to take this opportunity to formally
apologize for the lack of a.Booze Brothers article this
past week. If you failed to notice its absence, then you

either failed to read the paper, or didn’t give a damn :

about our column. Whatever the case, we really don’t
care. We were DEAD. All we remember is going to the
Grateful Dead concerts in Durham and Norfolk two
‘weeks ago, having a great time, passing out and wak-
ing up this past Saturday and finding everybody gone.
Nobody was here, we missed our rides home for East-
er, we had nothing to do, it sucked, so we decided to
tour the local bars and write up a report about our ad-
ventures.

First stop took us to The Pub Tavern, formerly The
Corner,;which was formerly The Rock ’n Roll Sunoco,
which was, of course, preceded by The Sunoco Sta-
tion. What it was before that is anybody’s guess.
Chalmers Davidson claims it was formerly used as an
overnight encampment for Peter Stuart Ney, but the
present owner, not wishing to draw historical buffs to
his establishment, flatly denies this claim.

If you’re looking for a classy “joint,” don’t go here,
unless you’re a redneck (sorry, Mick). THis place is a
mixture of pool tables, pinball machines, dart boards
and irritating, noisy, computerized quarter-swallow-
ers. They don’t have happy hour, but beers are only
75¢ regularly so that’s no problem. We missed the hors
d’ oeuvres, but we understand they are served annually.
If you want a six-pack to go, they’re only-$3.50 and
when you’re heading home to Beanville (i.e. , Eastport
M.H.P.) it beats the hell out of going to 7-11. Don’t

bring your date to this fine establishment ‘unless: she

“gets into” fights (if she does, the best brawls begin
around 11:00). Also, forget picking up. a wench down
there, unless, of course, you want to pick up something
else along with it.

Next stop on our journey brought us just down the
road to The Anchor Tavern, which has always been
The Anchor Tavern and always will be. If you’re not
sure you’ve located the right place, check the front
door; Dr. Winkler’s office hours are posted on it. The
atmosphere here is “intimate” and provides.a nice set-

~ mean drink. Beers are again 75¢, but Leo, the owner,

Offers a great 80¢ special on 16 oz. beers. Various

. sandwich items are offered, prices are reasonable and

the food is good. Their breakfasts beat the hell out of
the snack bar‘s and you don’t even have to stand in
line.

The next watering hole we visited. was'Par-3, you.
_know, the Union 76 station next to, the i ice Company .|
Well, there are not a whole lot of gooe igS’we can:
say about this place. When we went ‘there it had just
changed hands, had lots of beer, butlacked one thing, a
beer license to sell it. They had twe podhtables‘and no

Mion

‘other amusement except a boob tube. le understand -

this place attracts a lot of Davidson césed
night, but when questioned, the Rusk’ girl
they’d been invited, but insisted none fad ever at-'
tended. We’re not surprised. oa

We hunted for a new spot to drop-in to, but came up
empty. We contemplated visiting the 900 Room, but it
was after 11:30 p.m. and we were sure they had al-
ready made last call. Upon returning home, we wrote
up this article and have now decided ‘to pass out. If no
article appears next week (yawn), please send some-
one by Lafferty House to check on us; we’d hate to
miss graduation.
Disco Update: Well, we woke up a couple of hours
Thursday and decided to GO DISCO. Chunk and Ace
tried their best, but there just wasn’t-anyone on cam-
pus. So they gave up and joined us at Digg’s house fora
party.

on ladies’ :

Jim Troutman ‘82 and Jimmy Hawk ‘82

ON ACA Occrekited ump gecialiaing
UL wocter sports with added emprase .
on (ond sports , is looking for polential
Cuunetio® of poys and give (etween
the 09% Of 1 pe aa Cownslovs
male rave the ability 4otedh in
one oF more OF Ane coupe .ctivitie .

Rta 7,80k oe

ting for a Friday afternoon or Saturday drunk...we

ion writ Camp thuttetad

[~~ GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
sou, SUMMER SCHOOL

Interpretation and Translation Institute

Government/Business/Internships

Language courses ~

English as a Foreign Language

Writers Conference

Washington Laboratory

College Preparation

Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses

‘Sessions: Pre—May 24-June 18

First Session—June 9-July 13
Eight-week Cross Session —June 9- August 4 ¢ —
Six-week Cross Session—June 28-August 6 4
Second Session—July 14-August 17 a :

ABROAD
Dijon, France.- French .
Leningrad, U.S.S.R. - Russian
Oxford, England - Business Administration
Quito, Ecuador - Spanish
Fiesole, Italy - Italian -
Trier, West Germany - German
Italy, Christian Archeology Fieldtrip
Greece, Life and Thought in Ancient Greece
Wales, Literary Tour

SEND MORE INFORMATION
Name_-
Address.

T

Wastepon, BC 300 20057

"Gece enc rnin oa ay
employment and ad ; werent:

Mail to:

