Suicide Hits

Hodson Hall

The fall theater production is areal killer

By CATHI DUMAS ’84

The Suicide, whether to be or not to be and who to
do it for, is the title and the question of the major fall
theatre production on campus.

- The Suicide was written in the late 1920s by Rus-
sian playwright Nikolai Erdman. His first play had
been a hit, and The Suicide received a great deal of at-

tention from such Russian theatre greats as Gorki, Sta- _

nislavsky, and Meyerhold. Gorki pleaded with Stalin
and obtained permission for the play to be produced,
but at one of the last dress rehearsals Stalin banned the
play. Erdman spent 20 years in a labor camp because of
his outspoken social satire. Finally, in the early sixties,
the play was produced in Russia, and Erdman was able
to see it performed before he died. In 1979, the Royal
Shakespeare Company performed The Suicide, and in
1980 it appeared on Broadway. According to Dr.
Barber, however, The Suicide has been most success-
ful when done by university or regional theatres.

So why is a suicide so controversial? The main
character Semyon, played by John Marks, is an unem-
ployed “little man” considering suicide. He is ap-
proached by characters representing the church, the
arts, romance, business, and the intelligentsia, all of
whom want his suicide to be a gesture for their cause.

.. According to cast member Matt Merrell, the play
has a broad appeal: “A lot of people can identify with
the main character. He wants to find a purpose for his
life. He’s very average, but wants to escape his com-
monness and sense of uselessness.” Another cast

member, Doug Vass, says The Suicide shows the im-  .

pact of the Russian Revolution on some for whom it
was not successful. Semyon’s discontent is 3 powerful:
“Allow us at least to whisper: ‘life is hard.’

Dr. Gardner’s sabbatical this term provided an op-
portunity for students to collaborate on the design of
the set. Dr. Barber did the basic design concept, but se-
nior Eric Fichtner is the technical director and has done
much of the building himself. Barber decided on a style
called constructionism, which was used widely in the
Russian theatre of the 1920s. The style involves an un-
painted, almost still- under-construction look, and is a
moving unit set.

The principle members of the cast include Anne
Lambert as a deaf mute, John Marks as Semyon, Cath- ©
erine McMillan as Maria, Laura Singleton as Serafi-
ma, Matthew Merrell as Alexander, William crone as
Viktor, David Barber as Aristarch, William Kremer as
Pugachav, Roy Fuller as Father Elpidi, Loy Thorton as
Maggarita, Roxanne Bickford as Raissa, Doug Vass as
Egor, Cynthia Briscoe as Valodkina and Joyce Robin-
son as Cleopatra.

Performances began with the student opening last
night and will continue with perfomances this Friday
and Saturday at 8:00 and Nov. 5 and 6, also at 8:00
p.m.

Good typists needed
Make good money and learn

a useful skill at the same time.

Surround yourself with
intriguing people. Challenge
‘our manual dexterity. Not a misprint.

For more information,
call Ann 892-611:

An equal opportunity employer. .

12

DAVIDSON STUDENTS

may 10% OFF
We | ALL NEW FALL FASHIONS

sss

° Breckenridge

° Country Suburban
© Herell

° Forecaster

© Nell Howers

° Crazy Horse

Show ID card

mM;

for your discount

HOURS: 9:30-6:00 Mon.-Sat.

Catawba Avenue © 892-1926

‘Cornelius |

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982
