Film Reviews with Debbie Eisenbise

Eye of the Needle; Watership Down

Ken Follett’s thrilling spy novel comes to the screen
in The Eye of the Needle, Friday’s Pop Film. It blends
historical fiction, suspense and romance into one tight
story.line. Set in London during World War II, the mo-
vie canvases the life of Mr. Faber (alias “The, Needle”),
a Nazi undercover agent, from the onset of his mission
in 1940 till its untimely end in 1944.

The director introduces the characters through a ser-
ies of disjoint scenes that occur in 1940 just after the
biginning of the war. The film then jumps ahead four
years to an abscure island just off England’s coast
where most of the story’s action takes place. It is here
that all the threads left loose atthe film’s start are tied
together as the various characters are introduced to one

To love a strangeris eazy...
To kill a lover is mt.

another.
The.complex series of events that occur on this small
island,‘revolve around the film’s two main-characters,

Faber (played. by. Donald Sutherland) and Lucy (Kate

Nelligan). Sutherland gives.an excellent performance
in his portrayal of the cold and calculating Faber.. The
character is revealed bit by bit heightening the movie's
suspense as curiosity about the man’s personality is
added to intrigue about his situation: Will he be
caught? Will he meet his death? Will he reveal his.true
self, that, which lies behind his inhuman mechanistic
front? These, questions are answered as the climactic fi-
nale approaches with the onset of his relationship with

a woman named Lucy. Nelligan who plays the heroine, -

certainly acts just as brilliantly as Sutherland does, but
the development of her charcter is somewhat lacking,
and the motivation behind her actions seems irrational

- and confusing at time. In contrast to the novel, the film

portrays the character as more of an hysterical female
than a woman'torn apart because of her passionate love
for a man.:The minor characters. are even less well
developed, having import merely in their aid in off-set-
ting the. main characters’ personalities and in explain-
ing their actions.

The violent. sus ‘of- the. film, however, . keeps
one’s mind focused. more upon.the story-line than the
individual charac-ters. From intrigue to chase scenes to
romance, the tension remains at the apex established in
the film’s opening scenes. This is a movie for active
emotional and intellectual _,involvement-.an; action-
packed first rate thriller not to be missed!

Fine Films, Wednesday, April 14 presents an excit-
ing adven-ture of a radically different nature in Water-
ship Down, produced, written, and directed by Martin
Rosen. The film, based on the novel by Richard

- Adams, chronicles a-world of rab-bits and their strug-

gle (curiously similar to mans) to survive in an unjust,
imperfect, and totally sabbit-populated world.

~

Through this innocent detachment from our “real”
world, Rosen is able.to take-a look at politics, psychol-
ogy, and religion, but from a rabbit’s paint of vi view, y, Of

course.

A timid mystic-rabbit named Fiver énvisions the i im-
minent de- struction of the rabbit world by men. Thus
these personified bunnies, imbued with human-like ti-
valries, friendships, joys, and anguishes, set-off on an
exodus to find a new home. They soon confront anoth-

_ er rabbit.clan overlorded by a fascist named General

Woundswart. The. battle that ensues. in its fang and
claw: fashion immediately removes any notion anyone
might have that this is just another carton.

The artistic quality of the animation and the sus-
penseful drama of the plot puts Watership Down on
par with Allegro Non Tropo shown earlier this year.
Besides forcing the audience to take a second look at it-
self, this movie’s en-tertainment value rates high!

Debbie.Eisenbise ’82 .

SMITH’S

" Cornelius, ph. 892-8856.

BARBER FOR MEN AND.
__ WOMEN

YOU NAME IT —
STVLE IT

- WE'LL

-NORTON'S.
BARBER SHOP

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 9 April 1982
