By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

What is dance? The North Carolina Dance Theater
seems to have a pretty good idea, demonstrating sever-
al aspects of dance in a performance Thursday night, 2
December in Love Auditorium. The 16-member
troupe, a professional affiliate of the North Carolina
School of the Arts under the direction of Robert
Lindgren, appeared in conjunction with the Davidson
College Artist Series.

The program began with three dances from the
third act of the ballet “Napoli”: “Pas de Six,” “Soli,”
and “Tarantella.” The spirited classical number in-
cluded numerous spins, lifts, and leaps sure to satisfy
any traditional ballet patron. Edward Campbell per-
formed with particular energetic flair in a flowing solo
variation. However, a few of the dancers demonstrated
technical inadequacies. Often they wore pained ex-
pressions and their movements were labored. Much of
the potential vibrancy of the piece was lost in what ap-
peared to be a struggle on the part of a few dancers to be
technically perfect.

The second piece, “Women,” was a stark contrast
to the classical ballet composition of “Napoli.” Intense
in its movement, powerful in its statement, sensual in
its emotion, the dance was an intimate portrayal of and
tribute to women, choreographed to the anguished
music of Grace Slick. Dressed in old-fashioned cami-
soles and slips, five members of the troupe (Darleen
Callaghan, Dayna Fox, Pear] Potts, Laura Worrill, and
Terri Lynn. Wright) interpreted the spectrum of the joy
and sorrow of women’s existence. The portrayed
strength of the dance had a definite impact upon the au-
dience, female and male alike, making it the most

nsider the Rituals They Danced

The NC Dance Theatre performs classical, modern,

and jazz

lidarity — nause during “Women.

memorable of the dances in the program.

The third work, “Resettings,” was substituted for
the originally scheduled “Legend” as more appropriate
to the college audience. Critically acclaimed “Reset-
tings” was commissioned for the American Dance Fes-
tival at Duke University where it made its world pre-
miere in 1980. Modern dance choreographer Senta
Driver created the dance speacifically for the North Ca-

“Resettings” is a composition in motion on Love's
proscenium stage.

The dancers — both vulnerable and strong in their so-

rolina Dance Theater, and her style and technique are
as original as anything seen in American dance theater
today.

“Resettings” is totally modern in its techniques,
and ballet traditionalists may find it unsettling. It is an
extremely physical piece, as performers roll around the
stage and over each other. Stage roles are reversed as
women dancers lift male partners. Except for a se-
quence toward the end of the piece, which is-danced to
an arrangement of Henry Purcell’s “Dido and Aeneas,”
movement is done to the rhythmic tappings, clappings,
or hummings of the dancers themselves, or in silence.
“Resettings” presents a new approach to modern as
well as classical dance, but such unrestrained genius
can often be-misinterpreted. Watching a performance
of the dance is compatible with observing a recess of
malfunctioning robot children. While the interpreta-
tion is innovative and fresh, it will definitely take some
getting used to.

The final work in the program was a full company
performance of “Sundances.” In an exquisite and
graceful performance, the troupe returned to a more
classical ballet style, shaded with aspects of Greek folk
dance. Deborah Dawn and Edward Campbell were es-
pecially stunning in a peaceful duet danced against a
sunburst background.

Much of the appeal of the North Carolina Dance
Theater must be attributed to their diversity of style.
They combined a program of classical ,aamodern, and
jazz to present every facet of dance imaginable and to
satisfy any audience member’s appetite.

Sloan Grant

(Continued from page |)

vidson College as a liberal arts educa-
tion on the national educational scene.
Approaches to the liberal arts are
clearly being modified by all fields of
technology. Leaders of today and to-
morrow must be ‘technologically liter-
ate.’ The Sloan Foundation grant will
help us maintain our goal of offering a
superior liberal arts education, which
now must include technologicl compe-
tence as one of its components.”
Davidson is the only southern insti-
tution among ten colleges and universi-
ties nationally selected for the Sloan
Foundation’s New Liberal Arts grants..

Last spring 33 liberal arts colleges were
each given a $10,000 planning grant to
develop proposals to submit to the
Foundation, describing how the institu-

tion would use $250,000 to enhance.

technological literacy and make modern
technology part of a liberal arts educa-
tion. Associate Dean of the Faculty J.

Nicholas Burnett chaired the committee

which submitted the proposal.

The grant provides summer training
seminars for 30 faculty members from
the humanities and social sciences in
applied mathematics and computer pro-
gramming as well as six symposia dur-
ing the academic year on technology
and the liberal arts. Twelve Faculty Fel-

lows, two per term over a two-year peri-
od, will be released for a year to develop
new courses integrating technology into
their disciplines. .

Spencer Resigns
(Continued from page !)

sonal regret, I look forward with real
pleasure to renewing my association
with institutions and friends .in Virgi-
nia.” Spencer was president of Mary
Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia
from 1957-1968.

Spencer counts coeducation, in-

creased endowment, growing distinc- ~

tion of the faculty, and Davidson’s im-

proving national reputation as the major
positive changes during his term since
1968. He is disappointed that the sports
complex and new fine arts building
were not finished. “We want to get our
building needs out of the way so we can
concentrate on development and pro-
gram,” he said.

Spencer graduated summa cum
laude from Davidson in 1940 with an
English degree. After an M.A. anc
Ph.D. from Harvard, he returned to Da-

.vidson as History professor and Dean of

Students from 1954 to 1957. He served
as Mary Baldwin College’s president
for eleven years until he returned to Da-
vidson again in 1968 as president.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/10 December 1982

10
