Well, it is certainly good to be back in print. As ever-
yone must know we have been justifiably ousted in past
weeks by our beloved leader and several other of the
Hitler youth. However, now that Boho has returned
safely home, we can continue with our business.

It has become somewhat of an institution here at Da-
vidson that upon entering the Union building, one must
pick up an Announcement Sheet to read while waiting
for your food to arrive in the Snack Bar (excuse me,
Union Café). Well, we here at DB & SS have com-
prised our own Announcement Sheet for the coming
week that could prove quite helpful. Normally, we
would write the Honor Code on the tope of the page but
our beloved ex-leader, John, says it does not work any-
way, so we will skip it. (Incidently, since we last ap-
peared in the paper, we have learned that defective
Simon has moved on to greener pastures and now has
uncovered the true motives behind the Watergate
break-in. It seems Simon has learned that the entire

. Watergate affair was a mere ruse to keep the country’s
attention off a true scandel here in Davidson. It seems
‘that early in 1972, two Davidson students were in-
volved in a photocopy fraud here in the library that net-
ted each participant over two dollars a year. To avoid
national acclaim, the Dean’s office got in touch with
President Nixon who agreed to the Watergate affiar to
keep the heat off Davidson. As a sidelight, just last
week John tracked down both these villains and reco-
vered the missing four dollars and thirty-seven cents.)

FRIDAY February 12:

10:00 A.M. — In the gallery two of Davidson’s out-
standing scholars, Stokes Peeples and Chip Hoover,
will compete in the First Annual Pillsbury “Cram Off’.
Both men will each be given ten minutes to take all
three of their exams for the term with the winner being
determined by the highest cumulative score from the
three exams. The winner receives a weekend alone
with Davidson student Hill Stockton to see if project

- Head Start can really work. Also, by this academic

charity, Davidson can fulfill its obligation to this year’s
national academic project, Learning for the Needy.

12:00 P.M. — Davidson College’s Pre-Med Commit-
tee will sponsor a speech by Davidson’s own Edwin
Smith entitled, “Why You Do Not Need a Social Life
in College.” Mr. Smith, a longtime bore, will attempt
to show all college students that college can be fun
without alcohol, girls, or going outside.

1:00 P.M. — In the Depot, S.L.O.B. will be sponsor-
ing their weekly luncheon to raise money for those who
do not have enough energy for personal hygiene. Also,
do not forget to sponsor someone on the annual
S.L.O.B. walk this Saturday. For details, call either
Outten, Lafferty House, or Thomas Tankerslay.

SS Proudly Announce...

issue of Sports Illustrated, the entire campus is invited
to arally outside of Chambers with the theme “Got My
Money Back From Kenya!” (sponsored by the Union
Cleavage Committee).

5:00 P.M. — Davidson’s Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
will sponsor a speech by Senior Mott McDonald en-
titled, “Its Never Too Late to Develop a Personality.”
Mr. McDonald will speak in the Conversation Pit and
will be glad to answer any and all questions.

6:00 P.M. — The Union Cohabitation Committee is
sponsoring an all-campus “sneak-home” for all of you
who followed up the Disco with a private party of your

own. Those of, you residing off-campus had better
shoot for 5:30.

_ 7:00 P.M. — Mike Goode and the Union Games Com-

mittee are sponsoring a “Weekend Aboard the Titan-
tic” inside the College Union. Mike and Danny have
gone to great lengths to bring in real icebergs for the
weekend. Mike encourages all students to participate,
with a special preference shown for those with a history
of mental instability — or those just fed up with life.

8:00 P.M. —— Rusk House will combine with ATO to
hold Davidson’s initial Waffle Cocktail Hour. Those
happy-go-lucky chefs down at the World Bizarre will
be happy to help out all students who leave Rusk with
the munchies.

9:00 P.M. — The Dean’s Office along with the Union
Board will hold a discussion to explain why all the wa-
ter has been turned off on campus. It seems a few Da-
vidson students saw fit to drink what appears to be a
great deal of water and then trample some grass out be-
hind the baseball field. So, for the next five days, no
water will be served on campus. Interested students
may. meet at the Commons at nine.

11:00 P.M. — Davidson will not allow an 11 o’clock
due to the new Noise Ordinance passed by the City
Council. All clocks must therefore stop at 10 p.m. and
resume at 8:00 a.m.

' . pa for P ? ]

v

3:00 P.M. — After reading (or looking at) this week’s

SMITH’S
FLOWERS

302 Smith Cirlce
Cornelius, ph. 892-8856

——EEEEEE——>—>>> So

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
