24a

- DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

The Plight of tt
West Bank

e

“The pride of Palestine,” as Ramallahis'sometimes
called by its residents, was peaceful and: picturesque
when I visited, it last Wednesday (March 31).

People had certainly not forgotten the almost two
weeks of strikes, sometimes violent and intense emo-
tions, but they were indeed happy to be out and about i in
the warm spring sunshine.

“In many ways, there were interesting parallels be-
tween what happened here'over the past 12'days and

the weeks that immediately followed the occupation,”

commented a young professional. in the town.'“‘Thete
were the same arguments about loss of business and he
same issues had to be faced, but there was much more
solidarity. There is a realization that we are.alone and,
psychologically, people are more willing to-resist.” -

Not far from his office in the center of town, young
people were sweeping the streets and tending a flower
bed—an example of the voluntary work which has be-
come evident since the dismissal of the mayor, Karim
Khalaf, by the Israeli occupation authorities.

Despite the dire predictions of an escalation in un-
rest if Khalaf and his Nablus colleague, Bassam Sha-
k’a, were dismissed—predictions that came from both
the army and the West Bank residents themselves—the
military government has been able to achieve its goal
with little real trouble: Those in the government who
pressed to “strike while the iron is hot” have been
proved right, it seems.

But one older resident who has followed the polit-
ics of his people for many years noted: “Professor Mil-
son blundered when he fired the two mayors. There
were grumbles about Khalaf not doing anything for the
town, and Shak’a had factional problems in his town-
—their popularity was dwindling. Now, by singling
them out again, the civilian administrator has made
them into heros.

-“Under-Jordanian law, Milson could have called

new elections. He,could then have dismissed the coun-

cils and the mayors and appointed special committees
to run the towns for a year while the elections were pre-
pared. No one would really have objected to that and

‘there would have been little sympathy for the people he

wanted to get rid of.”
There apparently has been no serious post mortem

_about the events of the past week; the reaction fo, ‘the

dismissal of the two mayors was strangely: muted.
Many Palestinian Arabs agree that Israel’s nt de-
termination to actively interfere in their politics and
implement its own version of “autonomy” marks a
turning point, and much of their talk is about the imme-
diate future.

Deference Minister Ariel Sharon and his civilian
administrator, Menachem Milson, have repeatedly in-
sisted.that there is an alternative leadership in the terri-
tories which is willing to enter into negotiations with

_ Israel, and from conversations in Ramallah this week it

seems clear that there are indeed people waiting on the
sidelines, But even the minimal preconditions they
would demand from Israel before making their move
seem beyond:the capacity of the present government.
I talked with three people who, for the sake of ano-
nymity (which they requested), I will call the profes-

sional, the businessman, and the student.

13
