Boning Up
Professor Reichs Pokes Around With Very Dead People

By JEFF DEMPSEY °83

Professor’s interests sometimes lead them into un-

expected lines of work. Dr. Kathleen Reichs, assistant

. professor of anthropology, is interested in the study of
the social patterns of certain prehistoric North Amer-
ican Indians of the Midwest as reveled through genetic
traits seen on their bones. She has a forthcoming book
on the subject, Nominid Origins: Inquiries Past and
Present, to be published in January by University Press
of America. Dr. Reichs also works for the Charlotte
Police Department and the Mecklenburg County Exa-
miner’s office on occasion. She brings together anthro-
pology and criminology through her expertise in the
field of osteology, the study of the human skeleton. Dr.
Reichs first brought osteology to bear on her anthropo-
logical studies and she now acts as a consultant to the
Charlotte police in cases of the discovery of human re-
mains which cannot be identified through flesh analy-
sis or dental work. “I work on an average of about six
cases a year,” Dr. Reichs says. “The first questions I’m
asked are whether the remains are human and if so, are
they contemporary?” If the remains are established as
human and contemporary, Dr. Reichs files a report on
her determination, based on observations and measure-
ments done in the laboratory, of age, sex, height, race,
build, time elapsed since death, and sometimes possi-
ble cause of death. The police then use in their investi-
gation the description outlined in her report, attempt-
ing to match tht description with missing persons.
Most cases, Dr. Reichs says, do reach a presumptive
identity, but there are those in which the victim re-
mains unknown.

Some cases allow for special techniques of identi-
fiction. In one case, for instance, the deceased was

_ thought to be a patient missing from a mental hospital,
and the patient had a set of X-rays on file. Dr. Reichs ae
was then able to use post-mortem X-rays to make a ‘ =”
positive identification of the body as that patient.

Dr. Reichs’s involvement with this type of work
grew naturally out of her interests in osteology. As an
undergraduate she worked at the Smithsonian Instituie
in the department of Physical Anthropology where a lot
of this kind of work is done. While on the faculty at
Northern Illinois University, she began working on
cases for the local sheriff’s department. Her involve-
ment with the Charlotte police started three years ago
when she came to Davidson. Having attended several
seminars on forensics and related topics, including the
Second Annual Conference for the Recovery of Hu-
man Remains last spring, Dr. Reichs has been asked to
present a paper on her work to the International Con-
gress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences
next summer in Canada. She has also been asked to or- . .
ganize a symposium for the national meeting of the Assistant professor of anthropology Kathleen Reichs holds a friend

American Association of Physical Anthropologists in
April.

By Anderson Scott '84

Good typists needed | For more information,
Make good money and learn | eall Ann 892-611:
_ auseful skill at the same time.

: An equal opportunity empl
~ Surround yourself with qua! opp ty employer

intriguing people. Challenge
your manual dexterity. Not a misprint.

aa THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
