Editorial
Buy Books, Not Bombs

**Suggest something and we'll take a look at it.’’ said
President Reagan at his budget press conference the last
week of February. And suggestions he got. On March
first, National Student Action Day, 5000 college
students climbed the- Capitol steps chanting, the
not—so—subtle suggestion, ‘‘Buy Books, Not —
Bombs.’

With a proposed increase of 34 billion dollars in
defense spending and a decrease of 2.2 billion dollars in
federal student aid, it’s not hard to see why students
around the country are protesting the Reagan
administrations plans for fiscal year 1983. For the price
of a couple extra bombers several hundred thousand
students will have to re—evaluate their college careers.
In this’ week’s budget cut story John Phillips of the
National Association of Independent Colleges and
Universities claims that as many as 300 thousand -
students in private colleges will be forced to leave school
if the cuts pass in Congress.

However isolated Davidson may be from the real
world, student. aid cuts may bring the real world to
Davidson. The present proposals would mean a 600
thousand dollar reduction in Davidson student aid in
1983—84, about five percent of the college’s yearly
. budget and all out of students or their parents’ pockets.
Those most affected by the cuts will be upper—middle
class students, traditionally Davidson’s stronghold. At ~

least to some extent education cuts will tend to polarize
American colleges, sending upper-class students to
expensive schools like Davidson and lower and
middle—class students to public schools. ‘‘We are
moving from a system designed to educate those most
.able to learn, regardless of financial need, to a preserve
for those best equipped to pay,’’ says Rutgers University
President Edward Bioustern.

Even if most Davidson students show little concern,
the college administration is beginning to take action.
Associate Director of Financial Aid Kathieen Stevenson
has launched a letter writing campaign to. members of
Congress and is encouraging faculty, students, and staff
to become involved with fight against the cuts. As
quoted in David Resnik’s article of this week College
President Samuel Spencer also believes that Reagan has
his budget priorities a bit shuffled. **Student aid budgets .
are not a luxury...’’ said Dr. Spencer as a member of the
Association of American Colleges he should have some
influence in the aid cut protest.

Everybody wants federal budget cuts this year, but
nobody wants a-cut that might affect their own
pocketbook. So why not a compromise? Increasing
military spending by 32 billion dollars instead of 34
billion and leaving student aid at the present | 1. billion,
dollar level might be a good idea. We might not have
quite as many bombs but then again a few extra
megatons either way couldn't really make much
difference. Not having educational class differences
might be worth it.

If you still think Davidson isn’ t part of the real world
drop by the financial aid office and ask Ms. Stevenson .
about your chances of getting your loan or grant money
two years from now. I think you will be convinced that
student aid cuts can affect the quality of your education.
of Davidson and yes even the education of the real
world. And it wouldn’t hurt to write Jim Martin, Jesse
Helms, John East, Jim Hunt, or even President Reagan.
I certainly pi paar “¢

Five candidates will be vying. for the
SGA Vice Presidency in next Tuesday's
‘elections.. This is the first contested vice

The candidates are juniors Richard
Davis, Mark Oldenberg, and Boe Young
and sophomores Lentz Ivey. and Steve
Reardon.

Each candidate was asked why he was
running, what set him apart-from the

other candidates, what three campus

issues he planned to address and what
changes he proposed within the SGA.
Their responses, in alphabetical order,

| appear below.

Richard Davis

Richard Davis, is a junior political
science major from Midland, Missouri,
is currently Union Pop Films Committee
Chairman. Davis is also _ coach,
scheduler, and treasurer of the junior
varsity tennis team, of which he has been
a member for three years. A Fiji, Davis
has edited the fraternity newsletter this
year. He also worked briefly with the
SGA. Corporate Relations Committee.

Although he has never been elected to
the SGA, Davis considers his position as
‘*somewhat of an _ outsider,’’ an
advantage. He said his involvement with
the athletic department, fraternities and
the Union would make him a valuable
source of information within the SGA
concerning student views.

‘*One of the dangers of the SGA is that
it can_ alienate itself from the. student

other organizations:’” Davis said he
would be a ‘‘good voice’’ for the other
organizations.
Davis cited the SGA’s relationship with
te athletic department, Patterson Court,
and the Union as three major areas of
concern. .
“‘[ have good organizational
**adjust to changing circumstances.”’
Davis said he would like to place
groups of SGA committees with similar
areas of concern ‘‘under the stewardship
of a single individual,’’ as it was done in
the Union. ‘‘This streamlines the
information coming through,”’ he said.
Greater responsiveness to committee
interest groups __—_feel
represented,’” he added.

Leniz Ivey

presidential race at Davidson since 1978.

body. It must maintain close contact wth _

ability,’ he said, and as a leader, can’

First Contested VP Race in Four Years

Ivey also wrote the biannual freshmen
newsletter last year and was chairperson
of Saturnalia’ 1981, a one day social
gathering for underclassmen at the lake -
campus. —

*‘One of-my main goals is to continue
to.develop student involvement in areas
of limited student representation.’’

More student voice is needed in

academic policy, especially curriculum

decisions, and in the College’s athletic
policy, according to Ivey. ‘‘We need to
beef up intramurals,’’ he said, as well as
discuss ‘‘long— range goals for
basketball and football.’’

Student life. was the third area Ivey
emphasized, citing campus security,
decreased food costs for Patteson Court,
and the upcoming review of a town noise
ordinane as major concems.

Ivey said he wished to change the
SGA’s committee structure on the basis
of an ‘‘intemal flow chart’? he had
devised. Currently, all SGA committees
report directly to the President, who

*‘has been very taxed for time’’ and
unable to sit down and work out goals.”’
Ivey proposed the appointment of
someone, perhaps the Vice President, to
act as advisor to the committees.

Mark Oldenburg

A junior history major from
Charlotte, Mark Oldenburg was elected
to the SGA this year. He has served on
the «Corporate Relations Committee,
the Residence Hall ‘Committee and
the Trustee Contact Committee.
Oldenburg is a member of PiKA and _
sings in the male and concert choruses
and in the barbershop quartet.

‘*Getting involved this year has gotten
me really excited about the SGA‘s
pontential,’’ Oldenburg said, ‘‘and the
office with the most potential is the vice-
presidency.’’Since the office of vice-
president does not entail many specific
duties, it can become ‘‘almost a co-
presidency,’’ he added.

Oldenburg said his greatest asset is
that he has ‘‘experience but not too
much.”’

‘“‘In a year I’ve learned haw. things
work, and _ what potential
particula people _ and offices have, but
I‘m not to much steeped in tradition,”’ he

‘said.

‘Oldenburg listed the computer, the
Commons and the proposed town
ordinance as three issues of importance
for SGA this fall.

The computer system ‘‘has a vast
potential for student use ‘‘ which needs to
get more attention. We'll have to use

_ Computers for most jobs of the future,”’

he said, and ‘it would be a disservice to
the students not to offer them

oppotunities to develop computer skills.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982
