Stale and Hardened Petroleum

oe

Hundreds of boxes of virtually useless food and med-
ical supplies gather dust in the gymnasium’s basement.
These supplies were allocated to Davidson College by
‘the Civil Defense in 1964. At that time the basements
of Chambers , Belk, and the Gymnasium were serving
as. emergency air raid shelters. Within a few years,
however, all the supplies were transferred from these
shelters to two tiny rooms under the gymnasium pool.

The air.raid shelters had been deemed ineffective, so

there a was no point in keeping them stocked, especial-
ly since the additional was needed for other things in
the basement of Chambers.

An interesting afternoon could be spent looking
through the countless boxes of survival materials. Pos-
sibly, the most fascinating items are the medical supp-
lies. Bottles of diarrhea medicine, constipation reme-
dies and penicillin, all expired, await disposal. There
are also thousands of pills - phenobarbital, aspirin, sul-
fadiazine and even water purification tablets. None are
of use any longer. They are as obsolete as the shelters
themselves...

No one seems to know how many supplies are stored

‘under the pool, or who owns the materials; Buddy Ro-

binson , the gentleman who has the keys to the gymn’s
basement speculates that the Civil Defense Department
still has conttol over the supplies.: They have, jhowever-

,claimed nothing, soeverything simply sits in ‘two tiny ,
musty rooms doing absolutely no good. -

Of course , stale and hardened petroleum jelly will
benefit no one. Some useful items can be found,
though. Gauze, cotton, bandages, scissors, safety pins
, Syringes, thermometers, and forceps could all be used

ly Will Benefit No One

of ie ‘is ght Soe. Even
" the numerous boxes of tongue dépressors and the dis-

posable toilet séats could serve some purpose.
It is rather odd that while Davidson's air raid shelters
were all abandoned in the sixties the supplies theywere

stocked -with are still locked away awaiting disposal.

No new shelters have been created; d; none of tie food or

a: PROD by Anderson Scott ‘84

= : Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

“medicine has been replenished. ‘ft seems “that those
hundreds of boxes are condemned to remain under the

pool forever-at least until a nuclear war.

"by Roxanna Guilford

Photo by Anderson Scott ‘84

10

“<* DAVIDSONIAN /-Friday’5 February 1982
