BTS

Having: never felt racial, aie or economic op-
pression, I can’t pull a-Victor Frankl on you (ask a

Humes jock). I’ve never been in jail; even for some- —

thing cute like public urination, and I’ve never had a

fling with a mysterious foreign woman. So what is -

there to keep you people interested? -

Of the stories, Icould. tell, paltry and relatively safe as .
they have been, finding:a.good one is notalwaysedsy:: :

For example, there’s the stuff I don’t want my folks to
know: about—or my professors, or my friends. Then

there’s the mofe traumatic material that my poor mind -

has selectively eliminated so that I won’t have to live
with it (apologies to Dr. Brockway, who may or may

not say that this is possible). Finally, there’s the condi-.

tion I mentioned at the beginning—that of not knowing
how to make an observation that does not use the part to

ridicule the whole of something. I haven’t licked this. .

problem, but having now apologized for it, and having

finished my lament on the Author’s Search for Subject -

(extra credit, Prof. McMillan?).. 1 eee proven Aaithe
saga of theology i in the laundromat:
Spending your Christmas vacation in.one of Ameri-

ca’s sprawling, mega-growth cities is not so bad. But it |

means that your potential for existential adventure and
personal edification is restricted to: old stand-bys like
personal alienation, urban impersonality, and the swell
of downtown eestte Usually: But this day was differ-
ent.

The fiend ; was visiting didn’t really have any facili-

laundry we looked like we were pretty:

Kleen. Wringirig wet, and with sbe a

ting. Before long we were blissfully sitting in front of fa
visual feast of overalls; tee shirts, and socks, with an
occasional bra drifting by for variety: For a while I
tried to convince myself that they looked like fish play-
ing in an aquarium, but you can ii ell that

-oworked. So having always been fase IT scat 3
she ee ees Ww a

The: building was L-shaped, so it ‘was. not: sai this

point that I realized we had company. ‘His head was ys

sort of shaved on the sides, and he:was dre
standard proletarian garb. Perhaps it was the fact that
he didn’t seem to be doing any wash that struck me as

singular about him. Then I noticed that beside him was _

a copy of the Bhagavad Gita:the size of your average

a unabridged dictionary. For thé’uninitiated, the Bha-
2 foe Gita “is an imiportant. Hindu. text, perhaps

is to God’s call fo Abraham or Moses

* fou
in the Old Testament. But it’s just a short little book,

aes

ree very dear lady friend was deviously distt \

usually, so I figured this guy must take his Hinduism

pretty seriously. I said something to this effect, and im-
mediately found myself engaged in a cultural expe-
rience. To sum up his initial fifteen-minute rambling,
he told me that he was studying Sanskrit at Emory and
that he didn’t partake of alcohol, drugs, or illicit sex:
(he didn’t say anything about licit'sex), because he had
been a Hindu for four (of his about 25) years. Now, this
last point struck me as particularly ‘interesting, be-
cause, if you know anything about Hinduism, you.
know that deciding to “become” Hindu after growing
up in the middle of the American Dream is about like
deciding to “become” black or to “become” a genius.
But he was too interested in me to let me find out much
about him. After showing me his book, its several dif-

civil company with a woman (
panion) I was no doubt bound for hel ina a
As he expounded this charming y1 noticed what
he ‘was doing—eating a hunk 9f “cream: ‘cheese and

» $willing’a jug of some kind of ffuit punch that was the

appropriate color of a gall bladder. He was quite adroit
at talking with’ his mouth full, so as not to lose any
time. As you might i imagine, I was having an increas-
ingly difficult time concentrating on what he had to tell
me. He was somewhere in the middle of telling me that
me
from highiéf truth, ‘when I asked if yoga was a part a his
regimen. When he said yes, I asked him what kind. He
told me he couldn’t remember its name. My suspicion
grew. As he guzzled the last of his cyclamate j juice he

‘shrugged. “Chemicals: everywhere,” he said. Now,
- that was constructive. I was fast growing weary ¢ of this

Jetry Falwell of the pseudo-Eastern set, so I took my
leave, asking hi him to sen me. a card when he reached

Godhead.

For: the rest of the ee ry ‘thought elaborate
ghts about the- many ways in which we manifest

~ our disillusionment. {also thought about why so many
"Americans think there’s something spooky or weird

about Eastern religions. I also thought about what mis-
directd directions we sometimes take in trying to pro-
test the things we think are wrong with the obscene af-
re and hypocracy known as Western civilization.
ASE Sey ALO a, own laundry more

tie, John, Hartman "82

“a

