Badly needed Pep

Cordially Addressed to the Mister Edi-
tor:

Sir: It has occurred to me, although not
only recently and certainly not to me
alone, that the institution refered [sic] to
on this college campus as the Davidson-
ian has fallen into the same artistic va-
cuum as other institutions of this same
sort on various other parts of the globe,
particularly in these the United States of
America. I feel more than quite quali-
fied to make this statement, an observa-
tion really, because I have seen a rather
large portion of this earth and have
made it a point to read the journals and
newspapers wheresoever my travels
may take me. Please do not misunder-
stand me, for I mean no disparagement
for you or for your journal nor am | im-
plying that yours 1s a less than the aver-
age or bad weekly publication. No in-
deed! It is true that the Davidsonian,
like every other conservative journal ev-
ef written, is totally lacking in perspec-
tive, but this one is no worse than oth-
ers. Readers should bear in mind the un-
fortunaste fact that on a conservative
campus such as this one, there are only
closet liberals and virtuaily no radicals,
who remain entirely secretive. The rea-
sons for this are clear and simple. Every
time individuals of the aforementioned
sort emerge they are immediately ac-
cusd of social sedition and attempting to
undermine the holy foundations upon
which this country is based and of doing
all of these crimes for some foreign
communist power, usually’ the Soviet
Union. Cousequently, they are not like-
ly to be found writing for the paper. A
word of caution is needed here. It is a
grave error and simply wrong to term
the members or affiliates of the ATO
eating establishment liberal or radical.

i

to mepe
H iu

They are participating in their own se-
parate concept of social reality which
happens to differ slightly fron. that com-
monly accepted.

I’ve gotten quite off the track here.

_ As I was saying, the Davidsonian is

somewhat lacking in artistry. Specif-
ically, it does not have any sort of per-
sonal accounts or installments. As many
English majors as there are on this cam-
pus you would think that at least one of
them would be moved by the spirit of
Charles Dickens to create some fasci-
nating character and write inevery week
with another tantalizing episode from
this character’s life. But I imagine that
English majors lead rather boring lives,
and therefore, have no resources or ex-
periences from which they could con-
struct a story that would be anything
more than exceedingly boring. No mat-
ter, for I am here to rescue you from
your predicament. Beginning next
week, I will commence in the writing c °
anecdotes and stories in general from
my own truly interesting life, though
they shall by no means be chronological
or consecutive, but certainly they shal
have some unity and flow. This will, of
course, add some badly needed pep to
your humble publication, and it will
help me pass the time seeing as I am
forced to remain here for an unspecified
duration. Not ortly will these tales be en-
tertaining and amazing but they will al-
so be entirely, utterly and completely
true and factual. In addition, you will
have the added pleasure of my commen-
taries and observations. This promises
to be quite a worthwhile venture for us
both. Until next week.

Very sincerely yours ©

A.M.C. d’Threekville

3 NS
al
=H
—
af — Ne
a
-
=

The Mai!

Ms. World History

To the editor:

While researching the rise and fall
of western civilization for a Humes pa-
per one year, I discovered several his-
torical incidents which led to the devel-
opment of today’s Homecoming events,
Davidson’s most cherished annual tra-
dition beside graduation.

The first recorded incident occurred
in Greece in 545 B.C. when slave wom-
en were displayed on a platform during
halftime at a gladiato. game. The chief
official present bought the most beauti-
ful one, and the others were sold to
spectators.

The Romans in 112 B.C. allowed
certain women to enter the Colosseum
between games to motivate the all-male
athletes. Each woman was made the
prize of a specific event, and the men
could collect their prizes at the end of
their competition.

Similar to this in medieval times,
noble women would parade around the
field during a jousting tournament.
Whichever knight won the match had
his pick of the ladies-in-waiting.

The only evidence of such activity
during the Renaissance period is found
in “Horse Race in the Streets of Flor-
ence” by an unknown painter and Apol-
lonio di Giovanni’s “An Acrobat and
Wrestlers Performing,” both of which
depict women cheering male partici-
pants from the sidelines. I believe,
though, that these works of art are more
representative of cheerleaders than of

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Y-Student Service
Corps I would like to encourage every
student to support our annual fund
drive, which will begin next week. Stu-
dent volunteers will visit your dorm
room or perimeter house to inform you
about the Y and ask for any donation
you care to make. Because the Y re-
ceives no funds from the Activities Tax
Council, the fund drive is esssential to
ial support of our ongoing
d special service projects.

Andrew Wilson ’84

homecoming attendants at Davidson.

A closer resemblance to our home-
coming pageants is found at agricultural
fairs in England during the 1800s. Jon
Ridler, a dairyman, auctioned off his
wife at such a fair in 1822. Every year
afterward, aspiring young farmers
would do the same, hoping to make a
profit and lose their nags at the same
time. The women stood on a wooden
crate, displayed their attributes, and
hoped for a nicer husband than the one
who was selling them.

By 1889, the law in England prohi-
bited the selling of wives, even by their
spouses. Due to its popularity, though,
the auction continued inconspicuously,
usually while a soccer match was being
played. By the early 1900s, the auction
phased out, but women were still herded
across the field in keeping with tradi-
tion.

In America, the annual midgame
pageantry still prevails. Out of tradi-
tion, women parade around a field and
stand on a wooden platform waitng to be
judged Homecoming Queen of the
Year. Some people think we should not
have a Homecoming court anymore,
they believe it is chauvinistic, puts
women on platforms pedestals, and
idealizes the female form. Yet the histo-
ry and popularity behind the pageant
keep it alive—year after year, home-
coming queen after homecoming
queen.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes let-
ters from our readers. We try to print
all letters that are of general interest,
but we adhere to these four guide-
lines:

‘1. We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.

2. We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3. We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s phone
number and address. If you have a
compelling reason for us to withhold
your name, explain your situation to
the editor, Stewart Cauley.

4. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-
ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-co-
lor slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent
a viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in many other letters printed
on the same topic. We also reserve the
right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed

in the letters we print.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982
