Continued from page

To the editor:

Surprising as it may seem, few peo-
ple are aware of the plans the Reagan
administration is pusring for the dump-
ing of hazardous radioactive wastes into
United States coastal waters.

The Environmental Protectioon
Agency, is currently drafting new regu-
lations which will result in U.S. “low-

-level” radioactive waste dumping in the
ocean, and which also redefine “low-
level” to include some wastes now de-
fined as “high-level.”

The U.S. Department of Energy is
preparing an application to the EPA for
the disposal of tons of low-level re-
dioactive soil into the ocean, probably
without any packaging. The EPA ex-
pects to grant a permit for this prior to
enacting its new regulations. DOE is
currently studying the possibility of bur-
ying high-level radioactive waste in
ocean seabeds, where they are expected
to remain undisturbed.

The U.S. Navy has been studying
the possibility of permanently “scut-
tling” 130 decommissioned nuclear
submarines (containing some low-level

\waste) off the coast of California and

Hatteras, North Carolina. In re-

to this a massive grassroots op-

position in California resulted in the

passing of a bill in the California Legis-

tlature opposing the plans. The Navy

has temporarily backed off from Cali-

fornia and is still considering North Ca-
rolina waters.

These developments are indeed
cause for concern. Little is known about
the effects of radioactive wastes on the
ocean environment, and ocean dumpot-
ing is practically irreversible. Given the
enormity of the raioactive waste dispo-
sal problem in this country, the prece-
dent set by any of these dumpings would
pave the way for many more dumpings.

What can you do about this? Plenty.
The Senate will meet again for a lame
duck session on 29 November to finish
up a lot of old business. Since economic
legislation will be the most urgent focus
of this session, public pressure is
needed to get the ocean dumping issue
on the floor for consideration. If H. R.
6113 is not adopted then, the Senate will
probably approve a reauthorization of
the Act without it.

On Monday, 18 october, from 7:00-
8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference
Room the Davidson chapter of NC-
PIRG wil sponsor an informal meeting
to write letters to senators urging them
to consider and adopt H. R. 6113 during
the lame duck session. In addition, a
testimony addressed to Congressman
Walter Jones, who is holding a hearing
in Manteo, North Carolina, this month
on this subject, will be drawn up and
signed. Stationery, a list of senators,
sample letters, and further information
will be provided. Look for publicity be-
ing distributed this weekend.

Come to this important meeting and
exert your influence as a citizen to safe-
guard our oceans against radioactive
waste dumping. Ten minutes of your
time can make a difference. If you can-
not attend, write to one or both of your
state senators and to Senator John H.
Chafee (chairman of the subcommittees
on Environmental Pollution and Re-
source Protection); United States Se-
nate; 5229 Dirksen Office Building;
Washington, D.C. 20510. Urge them to
adopt H.R. 6113 with the reauthoriza-
tion of the Ocean Dumping Act, espe-
cially because of its radioactive waste
provisions. A short letter or card will
do.

Congressman Norman E. O’Amours
(D-N.H.) recently stated: “As a com-
mon-access resource, the ocean is not
protected by the same economic and
political forces that protect private prop-

erty . . . It is up to the members of Con-
gress to provide a voice for the ocean
and to ensure that the ocean has suffi-
cient protection.”

Let us not forget that we are the voice
of Congress.

Fortunately, there is a chance that
all this can be averted, at least for the
time being. On 20 September 1982, the
House of Representatives adopted H. R.
6113, a set of amendments to the Ocean
Dumping Act which is up for reauthori-
zation in both houses this year. In addi-
tion to several strictr limitations set by
these amendments on EPA ocean dump-
ing policies, provisions are included
which 1) impose a two-year moratorium
on ocean dumping of low-level radioac-
tive waste; 2) impose strict new rules for
study of enviornmental risks of radioac-
tive dumping before permits can. be
issued; 3) allopw a one-house congres-
sional veto of any future radioactive
waste dumping permit.

These measures cannot be included
in the Ocean Dumping Act without Se-
nate approval. Little Senate support had
been generated for them when the Se-
nate adjourned earlier this month, and
H. R. 6113 never made it to the floor for
a decision.

John Krotchko

No More
Lit Supplement?

Dear Editor,

The poignancy of Janet Stovall’s ar-
ticle in the October | issue of the David-
sonian has moved us to raise a question
concerning the need for an outlet for stu-
dent compositions. What has happened
to the literary section of the Davidson-

ian? Is the creative talent of Davidson
students so limited that it no longer mer-
its recognition in the students’ own
newspaper? Is the door to public expres-
sion of student creativity to be slammed
in our faces? We say no! Let not the li-
terary talents of Davidson’s students
mire in the vacuous pit of anonymity.

Readers, we implore you to contrib-
ute original compositions to the David-
sonian at the address listed. Let us not
let another Davidson tradition go down
the tubes like ARA Slater.

Carl Elliott ’83

Ed Whitesides ’83
Hang on. Send your literary submis-
sions to the Davidsonian office and tune
in two weeks from now. -Eds.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes let-
ters from our readers. We try to print
all letters that are of general interest,
but we adhere to these four guide-
lines:

1. We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.

2. We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3. We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s phone
number and address. If you have a
compelling reason for us to withhold
your name, explain your situation to
the editor, Stewart Cauley.

4. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-
ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-co-
lor slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent
a viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in many other letters printed
on the same topic. We also reserve the
right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed
in the letters we print.

NOMINATIONS ARE NOW BEING RECEIVED
FOR THE GOODWIN-EXXON AWARD

The Goodwin-Exxon Award shall ordinarily be presented to
one student from the sophomore class, one student from the
junior class, and one student from the senior class, chosen by a
committee made up of students, faculty and administratiave
staff on the basis of his or her quality of life in the campus com-
munity during the preceding year. The Goodwin-Exxon Award
is designed to recognize qualities other than unusual accomp-
lishments in scholarship, leadership, and sports. Its purpose is
to select students who typify the kind of cooperative support of
campus activities and warm, caring relationships with fellow
students which many observers have remarked upon as being
important elements of the campus lifestyle at Davidson Col-
lege. The award shall take the form both of a plaque recogniz-
ing the recipient and of a cash grant, a part of which the individ-
ual is asked to contribute to a charity of her/his choice.

To receive the Goodwin-Exxon Award a student should repre-
sent the highest standards of Davidson College in character,
good sportsmanship, friendliness, consideration for others,
high ethical standards, faithfulness to duty, enthusiasm, toler-
ance and concern for the less fortunate.

Last year’s recipients were: Stokes Peeples, Leslie Mills, and

Earl Wooten.

Nomination forms may be picked up in the Dean of Students
Office, the Union desk, and the Library. Deadline is October 22,
1982, at 5:00 p.m. Forms should be returned to the Dean of Stu-

dents Office.

EARN CASH Se

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982
