Mr. & Mrs. Richard C.

“What is this? A yard sale?”

By BRIAN BUTLER 84

I read an absolutely TRASHY NOVEL the other
day, in Chambers Gallery of all places. Right in front
of Dean Terry. It started off with the juiciest: Willy
Wonka’s Watermelon, York Chocolate-Covered Pep-
permint Pattie, Tidal Wave bubblegum, Candy Dino-
saur eggs, Annie cookies, Popeye Shredded Bubble-
gum (Popeye punches a pack, thinks to himself,
“Looks like spinach, tastes like bubblegum”), Easter
Greetings Delicious Coated coconut cream (white
cross on a pink background), the Uncandy, Norwegian
Crown Prince Finest Norway Sardines (in tomato
sauce), STP, Red Hots, Winston, Hardees Sausage
Biscuits, $100,000 Bar, Payday, Rocky Road, Cherry
Chan Candy (with a picture of the detective himself),
and so on. Hubba Bubba! I am talking about the trashi-
est.

Had enough? Me too.

This “Trashy Novel” is part of a display titled “Still
Lifes: An Exhibition by Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.” Ri-
chard Craven lives in Winston-Salem with his wife
Linda, where he is a curator at the Southeastern Center
for Contemporary Arts. Mr. Craven’s art has been dis-
played at the Whitney Museum in New York, the Paris
Bienale, in Australia, Poland, Washington, D. C., as
well as Fayetteville, North Carolina.

In a phone interview with Mr. Craven I asked him
what the relationship was among twenty folding card
tables covered with lewd advertising colors, Coke bot-
tles, Disney characters, cans of tuna, plastic cruci-
fixes, and art.

Mr. Craven wants to offer the idea that an artist's
creations may not be beautiful, thusory representations
of things, or even strictly visual to be acceptable as ari
Personally, Craven takes a special ironic delight in
iach. commercialized obtects, and tor a reason
thai isn’

“Name one man-made thine t designed.”

challenged me od couldn't thipk ob an examoptic,

roueh Powis sure ther mnewhere. EH,

MUS! be one

7 4, cpeyed cay re rears ery fea y are > }
Pach and ever. man-made object contains

kw ochoment of order desicn, und concentrated

AeT es Comsquently every TRING Passeares songe c

ree of arttul consideration tn short, i Beueve in fine
medium, and coarse art” Mr. Craven's art consists of
the assemblage and arrigement of the already-de-
sipned objects in the museum or gallers, where they-

one hopes---receive a more serious kind of observa-
tion than if viewed in a day-to-day setting. “The muse-
um audience,” says Craven, “is much more likely to be
interested and capable of adapting visual concepts and
playful, inventive attitudes compared to others which
are not concerned and open to visual information.”
Craven wants us to look at the millions of mass-produc-
ed doodads we usually ignore with the same eye we use
to view art.

For Richard C., the display has a mysterious, bi-
zarre, and amusing effect. “But,” he says, “anything
anyone brings to it is beneficial.” He overheard one
sarcastic student asking, “What is this? a yard sale?”
while he was setting up. “I thought that was a terrific
response and entirely appropriate.”

Some tables are arranged to have a specific effect.
For instance, the Superman peanut butter is flanked by
a Clark bar and Kent cigarettes. One table, titled
“Homage to Jasper Johns: 0 through 9” is simply a row
of common commercial products on a red tablecloth: a
Zero candy bar, Alka 2, 3 Musketeers, 4-Way cold tab-
lets, 5th Avenue candy bar, 666 Cold Preparation, 7-
Up, V8, and 9 lives. Jasper Johns, known for his painte
renditions of the American flag, also painted some ser-
ies of numbers, the effect of which is to induce the
viewer to see the shape of a nine, for instance, devoid
of its connotation or value. The number 9 is not neces-
sarily a 9 but an arbitrary and potentially beautiful
squiggle. Cravens’s 1 through 9 turns Jasper Johns’s
idea on its head, in a sense: if products are arranged

Py, NOS t

carefully, we might begin to see them outside their
common functions.

Other tables are somewhat more befuddling and
apparently nonsensical, at least at first glance. One
traps a pen inside two clear glass jars on top of a blank
writing pad. Suspended by a string from the string, a
forked stick swings with “No poetry” written on its
side. The “no poetry” stick is so light that even if the
string were to break, it would have little chance of shat-
tering the glass and freeing the pen.

One table is covered with a blue- and white-
checked tablecloth and rows of brown Tootsie rolls,
orange candy pumpkins, and corn candy. The effect of
this exhibit doesn’t depend on the relationships be-
tween the objects’ connotations (if corn candy has con-
notations other than gustatory), but only on the colors
and patterns and their visual effects.

Another table, covered with a paper Christmas
“cloth”, is rowed with holly and poinsettas of the sort
one sees in a large discount store around Christmas
time. A place setting is composed of a plate with

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
