Film Reviews

(King Lear, [1971], directed by Peter Brook; screen-
play by—aw c’mon! Starring Paul Scholfield, Irene
Worth, Jac MacGowran and Alan Webb.) Rating:
***14 Viewer’s Guide: Graphic violence in the Sha-
kespearean tradition

Paul Scholfield won an Academy Award for his
part in A Man for All Seasons (1966) and rightly so;
his portrayal of the pious Thomas More is a brilliant,
sincere performance. Scholfield’s follow-up perfor-
mance as the title character in King Lear is an equally
good, if somewhat eccentric, interpretation. In fact,
all of Peter Brook’s King Lear is eccentric, but that’s
what makes it so entertaining.

Brook is known for his very original directorial
style, as evident in his incredible Marat Sade . . .
(1967), which is almost too wild to describe, and
Tell Me Lies (1970), perhaps Brook’s worst film, yet
an interesting failure. Above all, Brook’s films have
a strong sense of realism, and King Lear is so lifelike
that the catharsis a viewer experiences after leaving
the theater is mind-blowing. Constantly Brook uses
huge close ups, zooms, and strange editing to spice
up his picture. These are elements of the French New
Wave movement of the sixties, and this interesting
technique is used well here. The only problem with
King Lear is that it is so cold, cynical, and downbeat,
that many viewers may have a hard time staying with
it. King Lear benefits also from good performances
by Alan Webb as Gloucester, Irene Worth as Goner-
il, and Jack MacGowran as the Fool.

Brook’s King Lear is said to have been originally
based on “King Lear or Endgame”, an essay by Pol-
ish author Jan Kott. In his essay Kott depicts King
Lear’s world as a somber landscape where there is no
heaven or hell. Brook follows this idea word for
word, and his film succeeds brilliantly because of it.

= '

(Alien [1979] Directed by Ridley Scott; screenplay
bsed on /t! The Terror from beyond Space [1957];
starring Tom Skerrit, Sigourney Weaver, John Hurt
and Y aphet Kotto) Rating: **'2 Viewer’s Guide: Ex-
treme graphic violence, brief nudity

Alien is not so much a horror movie as it is a hor-
ror of a movie. Touted as one of the scariest movies
of all time, Alien does have moments of true terror,
but these, as they say, are few and far between.
Based on the 1957 cheapie sci-fi flick It! The Terror
from beyond Space, Alien has the makings of a clasic
horror movie: a savage, brain-devouring extra-ter-
restrial (no “E.T. phone home” here) has slithered
into the Nostromo, an intergalactic towing ship car-
rying Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerrit and the rest of
their space crew. Naturally, the Alien begins knock-
ing off everyone, one by one. This sounds terrifying,
and sometimes it is, but more often than not, Alien is
monumental bore.

Director Ridley Scott may be the greatest cine-
matographer of all time. Each frame of his movies is
a beautifully crafted p icture with sense of balance,
exquisite lighting and excellent composition. One
day he will surely win an Academy Award for his
cinematographic talents. Alas, while a cinematogra-
pher Scott may be, a director he most definitely is
not. He simply does not know what to do with his
live props. In the midst of all typically perfect set-
tings, Scott has inserted boring characters who say
and do idiotic things. It’s like someone took Rem-
brandt’s The Red Mill and painted Yogi Bear hang-
ing from it.

And this is exactly what happens in Alien, except
that instead of getting someone mildly entertaining
like Yogi Bear in our horror movie, the viewer is
stuck with total clods like Tom Skerrit and John
Hurt. All of the actors in Alienare competent, first-
rate performers, but unfortunately they are totally
wasted in Alien(in fact, some of the cast, especialy
Veronica Cartwright, look totally wasted).

with Matt Morris

One key ingredient to making a horror film is that
the audience must first care about the characters in
the movie so that when they are placed in a situation
where brain eating is practiced, the viewers will wor-
ry and this worry will turn into fear. In Alienone
doesn’t even get to know the astronauts, much less
care about them. I was more concerned about the cat
in Alien than any of the human crew.

Another big disappointment the viewer will find in
Alien is that it is rarely scary. Constantly Alienuses the
clever method of scaring the audience by having the
creature sneak behind its victim and then . . . surprise!
This is scary once, maybe even twice, but after ten or
fifteen times it gets boring and repetitious. Steven
Spielberg and Brian DePalma have made more fright-
ening films by manipulating the audience through
harsh camera angles, plot twists, and most important,
never showing the audience too much. Alienshows all,
and in effect reduces its terror. Implied horror would
have been much scarier than the explicit stuff that is
thrown about in Alien. It is more disgusting than fright-
ening. If internal organs spilling out all over the place
is Ridley Scott’s idea of a scary movie, why not make a
film called Operating Room and then there would be
real guts spilling out all over the place. Now thatwould
be entertainment.

However, you may be wondering why I haven't
given Alien an “X” rating. In spite of all that goes
wrong in Alien, the effect is still there, and [ will admit
that at least once I was on the edge of my seat, and
maybe even a tad bit scared during Alien. It’s almost
worth the price of admission to see the Alien; he’s a bi-
zarre creation by Carolo Rambaldi, who most recently
constructed that little green guy with the glowing
pinky. The special effects are seamless, except for a
hokey control room that looks like bunch of Christmas
tree lights stuck up on a tack board. And as I said be-
fore, I liked the cat.

(Cn ner a OT TEST ES GP EE TT}

Z: Liberal arts colleges aim to pro-
duce a full individual; I think the way in
which Davidson’s church relationship is
expressed strengthens the moral charac-
ter of the individual, and so I think it
does strengthen Davidson. It provides a
vision of human relationships and a
faith that is a steadying force. It is great
strength to the College.

Do you feel that the ties with the
church are limiting?

S: I don’t see that they are limiting. I
think the church relationship actually
gives us a more specific responsibility

for a concern for people across the
world. It is very strengthening in that
sense. Getting back to something I said
earlier, I like to think that the church ties
of the College do not come out in doctri-
nary form, but rather in the spirit of the
community. The fact that this commu-
nity is close knit, that people are impor-
tant, that we have a committment to ho-
nor and dignity of persons and, I like to
think, equality of persons. I think it’s
important that the relationship come out
in those ways.

Z: I have seen no evidence that they
ere limiting.

How do the ties with the church af-

fect Davidson in areas such as curricu-
lum, student body, or educational
goals? .

Z: Except possibly for the religion

requirement, I don’t think they do affect

the curriculum in a direct way. They
certainly do affect the College in that the
ties with the church are responsible for
the loyalties that founded and sustain
Davidson. The trustees, for example,
are by and large Presbyterian because
the majority are elected by the Presby-
teries. The Presbyterian Church in all
the time that I have been here sent
around just one circular and that was to
urge colleges to emphasize the study of
peace. Learning has always been a cen-
tral foundation of the Prebyterian
Church. We have a variety of Christian
traiditions reflected in the faculty which
would not be possible if the ties to the
Presbyterian Church were constrictive.
Do you perceive a more pluralistic
faculty as an advantage to Davidson?
Z: Yes. The more pluralistic faculty
very definitely enhances Davidson as a
school. There has been a long-standing
view at Davidson that we cannot afford
to be homogeneous or isolated; this
same feeling characterizes all the best
Presbyterian schools that I know of.
Do you feel that the students here

reflect the College’s religious spirit?

S: I think you would find that stu-
dents that come here to Davidson in
general are likely to be more church-or-
iented than the cross-section at secular
institutions.

Z: The Presbyterian students here
compose the largest denomination.

That’s been another tie with the chur- —

ch—a great many of them seem to have
chosen Davidson because it was a Pres-
byterian school.

How does religion affect the school
financially?

S:Each year we get from the Synod
of North Carolina (the Presbyterian
Court, as it’s called, or body), about
$70,000 or $80,000. That is certainly
not a large percentage or a large amount
of money compared with the total
budget... It’s not unimportant. Any
amount of money in that amount is good
to have. We appreciate the support the
church gives; the Synod of North Carol-
ina is pretty good in its giving to col-
leges in terms of its capacity to give and
in terms of the other causes to which it
gives. But probably more important in
economic terms are gifts from individu-
al Presbyterians who give because we
are church-related. Some of our largest
gifts are because we are church-related.

Z: We don’t get much direct finan-
cial support from the church. I think the
concern of the church for the College is
expressed in the individual gifts of
church members to Davidson, not
through official agencies.

Could you comment on where the
College is headed with its relationship
with the Presbyterian Church?

S: That is difficult to answer be-
cause the church itself is at a historic

point in its history. We are related to the
Presbyterian Church in the United
States which is the Southern branch of
the Presbyterian Church. The main
northern branch is the United Presbyter-
ian Church in the United States. At the
last two general assemblies, they in-
cluded a plan for reunion of these two
churches (these were one once, but split
at the time of the Civil War). If that kind
of reunion is approved by the Presbyter-
ies of both churches, there will be a
reunion, and a new church. Colleges re-
lated to the northern church in a very
different way—they relate to the gener-

al assembly. In the Southern church, we
are related to lower courts, to Synods
and Presbyteries. We are related to the
Presbytery in North Carolina and two in
Florida. When the new church comes
into being (which a lot of people think is
probable) then there has to be a lot of
discussion as to how to mesh and to how
the College is going to relate to the new
church. Nobody has given a great deal

_ of thought to that yet. So it’s hard to say

what the future relationship might be if
the new church comes into being. As of
now, there is no disposition to change
the current relationship.
Do you think the ties with the

church should be maintained?

Z: Yes. The ties are a strength to the
College.

| see a i a a aie ii mii i wii a ie i i iS RANI

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982

13
