= LXXII, Number 15

Debate

A great deal of debate is going.on be-
tween faculty members. concerning the
proposed Faculty Advisory Committee
on Reappointment and Tenure.

- Some faculty members feel that fac-
ulty participation in the evaluation pro-
cess is essential. Others argue that the
proposed committee. will not make sig-
nificant improvements in the evaluation
system and that the price of this commit-
tee in terms of faculty relations is. too
high,

Discussion’ is crucial--because: the
measure passed at the first reading by
only on vote over the necessary two-
thirds majority needed for final adap-
tion. According to Philosophy Profes-
sor Lance Stell about 25 faculty
members were not:at the meeting so the
vote could go either way. ~

The proposal, which the Professional
Affairs Committee (PAC) recom-
mended would review all reappoint-
ment and tenure decisions, meet .with
Vice. President for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zim-
mermann, and make a recommendation
to: -be. included with. Dean Zimmer-
mann’s report to College President Sam
Spencer.

‘Phe five-member Committee. would
be elected by the faculty and would rep-
resent three divisions of the faculty and

' two at-large posts. Members of the
committee would not -vote on faculty
members in their department.

The system of faculty evaluation for
tenure now provides for a recommenda-
tion. by the head of the department of the
faculty. member and letters-of recom-
mendation requested by Dean Zimmer-
mann from individual faculty members
in the department and with whom the
candidate has worked in committee or
on special projects. Dean Zimmermann

then makes a recommendation to. Presi-

| The Weekly a of Davidson College

ulty Advisory
mittee. Under |

dent Spencer, which he forwards to the
Trustees with his own comments.

If the proposal passes, the process
would include, in addition to these
steps, a separate recommendation to
Dean Zimmermann from the Advisory
Council.

The PAC brought a similar measure

before the faculty three years ago, but it.

was defeated by eight votes on the se-
cond reading.

Supporters of the proposal emaphasize !
responsibility for

that it-is-an important

the faculty to: be involved in the deci-
sion-making: process. Philosophy. Pro-
fessor Lance Stell, who is.a member of

dag suonenunwwo) AsayiNg2 030Ud

the PAC, said that the Committee felt -

that participation in the evaluation pro-
cess should be a faculty responsibility ,
and that it is an appropriate thing to ask
of them. English Professor Anthony
Abbott said, “If we refuse to participate,
we miss the opportunity to play an im-
‘portant part in some very important de-
cisions.” _

Criticism of the proposal revolves
around two. basic. questions: will the
Committee be effective in improving
the faculty evaluation process, and how .
will the Committees’ work. affect colle-
giality among. the. faculty members
themselves?

English Professor Gil Holland, who
opposed: the measure when it was pro-
posed three years ago, is again opposed
to such a committee. He said he does not
feel that the Committee would not help
the evaluation procedure for several rea-
sons.

First, he said, Since President
Spencer does not have to state any rea-
sons for a decision for “understandable
legal reasons” there is not going to be

Continued on page7

Friday 12 February 1982

This year’s Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Dick Clark and
sophmore Dan Turk discuss U.S.-African relations. See story

inside.

Self-Selection

Results

Qn ‘Wednesday, 284 freshmen, or
78% of the freshman class, participated
in Patterson Court eating house self-se-
lection. Thirty-two freshmen are on
waiting lists at PAX, PiKA, and KA,
while 252 freshmen joined houses.

The new. all-women’s house. re-
ceived 52 new members. Sophomore
Anne Rollins who is helping to organize
the new house. said, “We are really
pleased.” Rollins said the house organ-
izers expect’no problem in getting
enough members to open their house
(See “Women Win, BSC Deferred”).

Only nine women signed up for
Rusk Howse, a precipitous drop from

last year. House President Shannon
Walters said, “We expected this to hap-
pen. Starting a new house is an exciting
opportunity and it [the number of wom-
en who signed up for the new house] is
not a reflection of dissatisfaction with
Rusk.” She said she still fully supports
the new house and says Rusk will-have
no problem filling their available spots
from their waiting list. “This is really
what we want,” she. said. “We’ll get
girls who are really committed to Rusk,
and not here just because we’ re the only

Continued on page 17

4

