A whole year of news

In case you’ ve sited out on this year’ s
big news stories, this, non-newsy article
should fill you in. We have not beenable
to cover all of the. stories, so please ex-
cuse the briefness of this report. The fol-
lowing is the Davidsonian’s summary
of the ten mostimportant news stories of
the 1981-82.school year.

Federal Student Aid Cuts.

With over-40% of the student body
currently receiving student aid, Presi-
dent ,Reagan’s proposed ‘student aid
budget cuts would: not only shake up,
but certainly alter Davidson College
life. Davidson would. need an extra
$240,000 in institutional funds in FY
1981-82 and $600,000 in FY 1983-84 to
compensate for the budget cuts, accord-

ing to Associate Director of Financial.

Aid Kathleeen Stevenson.

These financial aid reductions
would force many students to find addi-
tional resources or even leave campus
altogether. In the long run, students like
freshman Warren Gould fear, the cuts
will “make the private colleges the way
they were twenty years ago, for the af-
fluent only.”

The Commons/Pattetson Court

_ The Commons, a 3.3 million dollar
dining complex, has brought freshman
out of a dingy, dull, and disgusting
dump called Slater’ into an ordered,

streamlined, convenient cafeteria, Ithas .

also allowed the administration to enter-

tain guests and important looking, offi- -

cials in an official-looking place.

Some worry that the Commons may
be “too good.” Concemed Patterson
-Courters note that over S75 students will
eat at the Commons next year, including

4 almost 200 upper classmen, and that the:

| competition may force Some of

the y unstable itis boued out of
business.

. * But Patterson Court. has expanded
despite the Commons. President

Spencer has granted both Warner Hall a
women’s eating club, and the Black
Student Coalition, ‘a student organiza-

tion, permission to use the abandoned

Richards and Bailey eating houses next
year. escc a? co ae

Other eating houses have just man-
aged to stay afloat this year. Business
manager Bob:Currie’s:tightening of fi-
nancial restrictions and membership re-
quirements almost forced ATO and Phi
Delta Theta to close.

The. Commons and the Court have
also experimented. with co-operative
food buying. This. spring five eating
houses Signed an exclusive contract
with the Commons to purchase. Sealtest
Dairy Products. If it suceeds, the pro-
gram may expand “to, other areas of
food purchasing,” according to Food
Service Director Carlton Pritchard.”

But beneath these financial issues
loomed the ever growing, ominous di-
lemma over self-selection. According
to a poll taken by Dr. Thomas Kazee’s
Publiic opinion class, over half the stu-
dent feel that a fraternity bid system

would function t bepier. so far the con-

Supplemental Gragtsy’
Po Colleye-Work-Study,
i “State Tncentive
Grants |

troversy has amounted to a lot of talk
and little action. .
Noise Ordinance

“In response to a petition submitted

by thirty irate residents after a loud .

Chairman of The Board band party at

‘the SPE house last fall, the town of Da-
vidson is. now planning to adopt a noise -

ordinance. Whether or not the ordi-
nance would curtail parties or further re-
strict the College’s limited ‘social life,
remains tobe seen. =

Honor Code

Last fall then Davidson editor John

- Simon published an open letter to, the
“Student Conduct Council calling for an

“open record” in Honor’ Code and Code
of Responsibility cases. Some feel that

open trials: and increased student invol- |

vement, would make the. system more
fair and also act as a deterrant, ,
Computer Center :

. The new computer center has been
one of ‘Davidson’s most profitable mul-
ti-million dollar investments, Students
have used the thirty-two brand. new ter-

minals, in Chemistry, Mathematics, .

Economics, and statistics classes, and
the college plans to offer. non-credit i in-

troductory computer courses next fall.
‘The com uters, will allow Davidson to

provide e BASIC education that is be-
coming | essential to succeeding in our
technology-dependent society.
Defeat of Faculty Tenure Committee
Once again the faculty defeated a
proposal for a Faculty Advisor Commit-
tee on Reappointments and Tenure. A
similar proposal was defeated three
years ago.
The proposed committee would
have made a recommendation that was
to be included in the Academic Vice-
President’s report to the President, and,
in the case of tenure decisions, in the
President’s report to the Trustees.
_ The resistance is unusual in natioi-
nal terms. According to Academic
Vice-President. T? C. Price Zimmer-
mann, such committees @xist at most
colleges liké Davidson. Views vary on
the unpopularity-of the Committee, but
Philosopliy professor Lance Stell feels
the faculty simply have “a deep-seated
suspicion of each other’s ability. to be
confidential, Serious, ‘and professional
on such a committee.”
Defeat of the New Grading Proposals ~
In an attempt to find a method of
making finer distinctions in grading, the
Educational ‘Policies Committee _re-

~ viewed several alternate grading scales

this spring.: The committee first consi-

' dered’ adding pluses and minuses to the

current scale, but withdrew the proposal
in response ‘to student objections. Psy-
chology Professor John Kelton then
suggested a system that would rate stu-
dents ona 0.0 to 4.0 scale. The proposal

gained wide-spread support among the. .

EPC, ‘but the’ students still rejected it.
The faculty decided last week to leave

the current system alone. Besides-in- -

creasing student grade anxiety for a few
weeks, the EPC proposals did ‘not
change’ anything. One wonders if some
psychology professor dreamed up this
scheme to test our reactions.

; Student Activism

"Taking into account the sei de-
crease in student poltical ‘activity over
the last decade one would expect David-
son College, a traditionally conserva-
tive institution, tobe lost in a moat of

political apathy. But such was not the

cas¢ this year, as literally hundreds of

‘students latched on to one political i issue
~~ of another.

| sponsored teach-ins, entertained discus-

sions, and ‘sent over thirty demonstra-
‘tors to Washington to protest US mil- .
itary intervention'in El Salvador, Other —
political organizations ‘included Rev'd
Charlie Chaplains Disafmament Study
Group,’ which sponsored Ground Zero
Wéek, Professor’ ‘Pat’ -Edmonson’s
‘World Hunger ‘Group; ‘and a ‘devoted
anti-nerve gas coalition: 'Davidson’s
Crop walk also raised over one thousand
dollars for world hunger. Whether this
increased. student activism. represents. a
general campus mood, or just the efforts

of a few, remains to be seen.

“The Basketball Team

1981-82 was supposed ‘to be a “re-
building” year for Davidson’s basket-
ball ‘team. With a new coach, few re-
cruits, little experience; and a recent
losing tradition, who.could expect much
from the Wildcats? But lo and behold,
the cats get it together, Davidson pulled
off impressive wins over South Caroli-

‘na; Duke, and Marshall-and improved

during the regular season. The Wildcats
finished third in the Southern Confer-
ence and advanced to the conference
tournament finals. before . losing to
NCAA tournament-bound University of
Tennessee—Chattanooga. _ Davidson
finished the season at-.9-7 in the confer-
ence and 14-15 overall, their best record
in the last eight years. This spring Da-
vidson had the best recruiting in the
Southern Conference, and six top pros-.
pects. With a solid core: of. returning
players, and an eager crop of freshmen,
the Wildcats have much to look forward
to.
Housing Shortage

The: addition of Mary Irwin Belk
and Peter Knox. dorms to the musical
beds game relieved some of the housing
tensions, but the.college has also aggre-
‘vated the situation by closing down sev-
eral perimeter houses. By years end, the
college could not guarantee on campus
or perimeter housing for 120 students.

"David Resnik “85.

The Davidson Coalition’ on El'Sal- ~ .

vador showed films, “held ‘debates,

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday.7. May 1982
