Continued from page 1 S ton at press time, including & mumber of
. r es . : on WBMicaitin faci U ! ‘

the Center,” but he would not ha: ne Flonors.

guess as to the outcome of the vote.
As a result of the motion, a gr

stuents is circulating a petition 2

that the College maintain. the

‘ dies: was éstablished in.1976 as an alter-.

rik ulum- for students interfest-

nary: study. According to a ‘college
pamphlet the Cetiter “‘provides approp-

yo Mate. educational ‘background for stu-....
. dents, of varying. backgrounds, motiva-

’ Bons, interests, and abilities.” Dr.

~ Frank, Bliss is. the eurrent dean of the

wy u mi-departmental studies.
a ind students interested i in interdiscipli-.
College under”

2 an Rich ee In.

Center, but the Faculty is due to appoint

a:new.one at the end of this year.. The,
\ chosen dean appoints. his own faculty.

Nop “works more than half-time.
at the Center with the exception of Dr:

Bliss. Currently, seven faculty
members teach one. course pér term at
the Center, making a total of two and
one! ‘half faculty positions, plus Dr.
Bliss. ;

‘The American folk.-music. ‘ tadition’ is lasicli a es. ;
: cendent of British Isles folk music. For the most part,
the tunes are simple one voice diatonic melodies with |
an elementary chord structure. Folk‘ music includes
tunes that are sung and tunes that are solely i instrumen-
tal. The instrumentals almost always come fromatune.
"that was once sung with words. These instrumentals
are grouped loosely as “fiddle tunes,” after the tradi-
tional primaty lead instrument. The typi.cal fiddle
‘tune has two parts (though sometimes three or more)--
“the “A” and the “B” parts. It is then performed: A, fe-
peat, B;repeat; and soon until-the musci:ans. feel J
| they’ve had enough: More often than not, each repeat”
will be more or less'a restatement of the melody: Thus
‘the tune is two halves of a ‘melody. played over and
over. This.is'a valid musical form, but it is an elemen-
tary one, and-one quickly. grows tired of it. du

Photo by Elizabeth Elkin

_So,we.who seek to play folk musi ¢-must strive to

; do more when playing a tune than just rehash amelody :

over and again. We owe it to our own musical [potential
| to try: to make our music as interesting. and exciting as
we can. Realizing this, we are ready to take a look at a

fundamental. means of developing music to a higher
‘level--variation. ‘To have variation in ‘music means

simply to take'a previous theme and do it differently. = * ion
_ By the simple device of playing the melody differently” =o. 9

each time in a fiddle tune, you have created an interest

that was not there in the repeat--repeat rendition. The
audience now wonders, “what will happen next?” It
keeps them listening, and by working to develop our
variation we have elevated the fiddle tune to a musical
composition. .
A simple variaition whial abe the ality essen-

| tially intact, yet spices it up a bit, is toadd ornaments--
short grace | notes which do not interrupt the time flow — »
of the piece but put new accent on the notes where they

are used. Variation can be simply changing registration Ete

| by moving to a new octave ora new key. Notesmaybe ae
added to fill in slow measures. Rhythmcanbevariedin
infinite possibilities, change the tone, articulation, and i so
accent on notes, Leave the melody and improvise on =
the idea of the tune and its chord progression. Stretch. 4
your imagination. The tune of the week is “Over the “"#——
Waterfall,” another Old Time: ‘standard.’ Two baie ES Sch
ations are suggested asd I nts. ’ saan

‘some simple ‘omamentation.

at So on the chords.

_DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 15 5 January 1 1982

ae i aE

“5% ee

Be eter RS: aa eee Pe

ee al
