Another table, covered with a paper Christmas
“cloth”, is rowed with holly and poinsettas of the sort
one sees in a large discount store around Christmas
time. A place setting is composed of a plate with
Christ’s portrait spray painted in the center and a fork
with Big Bird’s body as the handle. A small box of Sun
Maid raisins sits on Jesus’ chest, and a plastic urn con-
taining six plastic roses—the kind you see strewn
across country graveyards in winter—balances the ta-
ble perfectly.

One table holds a cheaply made gold plastic crucif-
ix surveying 16 full Coke bottles in church pew-like
rOWws.

Mr. Craven does not want to force anyone to see
any particular thing in his arrangemenis. The implica-
tions are subtle and could be seen by different people in
different ways.

The important point to remember is that all the ob-
jects in the exhibit are consciously and intentionally
designed by real people. The people who design these
things don’t intend them to be tacky any more than do
those people who buy them and put them in their
homes. Craven merely shows them to us in such a way
that we are encouraged actually to see them, not ignore
them in our usual way. He wants people to keep their
eyes open in the shopping mall, the grocery store, and
the church, as well as in the museum.

To return to the “Trashy Novel”: Is ita page turner,
or is it pure garbage? Remember: these things are arti-
facts, parts of our lives that archeologists of the future
may dig up and use to define our culture. If they are not
worthy of our attention, what does this say about the
way we live?

FR, NOIS UOssapuy ‘g

Booze Brothers at Home
The guys belly up to the tee

Before Judy Garland OD’ ed on alcohol and bar-
biturates, she said to Auntie Em—“If you can’t find
happiness in your own back yard . . .” By this fine
example the BB drank each other over the rainbow
Monday night past in Davidson’s very own local
beer joints. Ideally, the BB would save for print
those exploits that transcend at least the township
boundaries, but we’ve come to find a decided lack
of students in the neighborhood playgrounds. No
wonder. So here is a brief review of three places
within putting distance of campus.

We teed off at the Lake House on Route 21
South from A.B.C.-Cornelius (Route 73 and I-77).
This place has just recently opened (perhaps you’ ve
seen flyers around) and doesn’t seem to have devel-
oped a large clientele just yet. We figured we were
lucky just to find a place that was open on Monday
night (see BB at Palomino, 10/8 Davidsonian). This
is a “bar” (i.e., they serve liquor). A very watery
scotch and water (house brand: Inverness) runs
$1.75 with reinforcement shots at 75¢ per. Beer on
tap features Budweiser and Bud Lite. The custo-

gi ‘
se I SD ae oli nee ir

mers wore handlebar moustaches for the most part
(indicative of firemen) and didn’t seem too im-
pressed with their meals (indicative of handlebar
moustaches?). It was early, the place was big, the
crowd was tired, we moved on.

Our next shot landed us in the rough, no more
than a mile north of campus on Route 115 at the
Korner (alias Rock ’n’ Sunoco). Is this a biker joint?
We were the only ones on bikes. Beer prices are
reasonable—75¢ for cans. They’ve got two dart-
boards (no house darts) and several video vices sur-
rounding th main attraction: three standard in-bar
pool tables, condition running from fair to good.
Betting seems to keep the interests up at the tables.
We learned a new game, the Korner’s perversion of
billiards:

—quarter ante per player

—track three balls

—each player is allowed break plus three shots
to sink all three balls

—fewest number of shots wins

—ante up again on matching

ei%

Kl fa Eb MEAD RIV DH.

bs
Pg
og
3
<

et Mea

\

The trick is to have someone catch the falling balls,
thereby maximizing on the 35¢ table rentai. Person-
al checks and credit cards? We'd like to see it. After
five or six beers the place was geting to be a sound-
trap so we CHiPped .. .

. . out halfway between Cornelius and David-
son, across the street from “Cat Craze—Catch it”
(wash it off) Car Wash, behind the Union 76 gas
pump to Par 3—yet another haven of pool tables,
75¢ 12 oz’ers, and Regular at $1.22/gal. We met
Whirly right off at the bar and he joined us for a rack
of cutthroat (35¢ per). As we tried to explain the
rules, Whirly retrieved his cue from behind the bar.
Whirly took us for all we were worth—a repeated
35¢ for the next game. The playing, all ‘round, was
competent, friendly, and continuous. Most of the
guys were drinking easy while Whirly put down 16
oz. for every third ball he shot. We put up for the
first few games until challengers joined in. Whirly
picked up for our last few beers, and eventually the
bartender picked up Whirly. It will be a pleasure to
get back and repay a man such as Whirly who has
developed a harmony between pool shooting and
beer drinking, who attains that elusive “having-
your-cake-and-eating-it-too” phenomenon, making
us stand up and marvel at the grace, the unattended
control, the seemingly fateful timing which indi-
cates the presence of “A Way of Life,” encouraging
one toward perfection and actualization.

Maybe it was our accumulating buzz, maybe it
was everyone else’s, probably it doesn’t matter; the
BB had an excellent time hanging ’round the neigh-
borhood and we especially enjoyed Par 3. With pri-
ces and entertainment as consistent as they are
around here, only the crowd makes the difference.
Though this Monday night any one of these places
could have been seiged by five enthusiastic souls
looking for a place to begin a party, Par 3 has that
sense about it that you find in a corner pub in New
England. A home sense, the kind of feeling that al-
lows you to expect to find your cigarettes saved if
you leave them on the bar. A lasting tone about the
place that supercedes any effects of décor changes
and temporalizes all disruptions. Par 3 is obviously
some peoples’ home away from home.
