To the Editor:

By winning the N.C.A.LA.W.
state championships last weekend, the
women’s tennis team qualified for the
A.1.A.W. : regional. tournament to be
held.in Martin, Tennessee on May 13-
15. We requested. that the college fly
them to. the tournament for the follow-
ing reasons:

- 1) Martin is 550 miles away; a thir-
teen-hour trip cea two. meal and
two.gas stops).

2) - Since we will play. an average of
four matches a day, a thirteen-hour
drive might detract from our perfor.
mance.

3) Perhaps the most important factor
is our academic performance. By repre-
senting Davidson in the regionals, we
will miss the last two days of class and
one exam day. Although we don’t gain
any class time by flying, we would gain
important study time: By flying, we
would return to Davidson Sunday morn-
ing after a good night's sleep; by driving
we would return Sunday evening proba-

bly tired from the long drive. ; »
4) Money has been _ alloca ed. for
Coach Miller’s transportation, therefore

the money we are requesting is only for
seven players’ plane tickets (7 x
$153.50 equals $1,074.50).

5)’ We believe supporting a successful
wottien’s athletic team would be a posi-
tive reflection on Davidson and our at-
hletic Gepantnient,

Yesterday, Aihibiie Director Farrell
denied this request. After studying our
proposal, he did not feel that he could

justify the expenditure. He felt that
since we would leave and return on the -
same days, the ten hours saved by flying -

would make little difference in our prep-

aration for exams. Farrell believes that ;
“it would be nice” if we could fly, but

that-driving is not too 'much of a hard-

ship. He also mentioned that he did not’

want to set a precedent for other teams

wanting money by approving our flight. .

Editor: Stewart Cauley
Executive Editor: Brian Butler

News Editor: David Resnik

=y Assistant News Editor: John Richards e 4

- We realize that Davidson, through
the Trustees, places greater emphasis on
basketball and. football than on minor
sports.’ It seems unfortunate, however,
that Davidson cannot at least make ex-
ceptions when, through extenuating cir-
cumstances, the situation demands
special. attention. Rather ‘than cause
them to make either finaricial or aca-
demic sacrifices, Davidson should be
proud and therefore supportive of its
successful athletes.

Although the athletic department
denied our féquest, the tennis team will
fly to the regionals next Tuesay.

Should we have to pay for our suc-
cess?

The Women’s Tennis Team

: nopolization. of very

To the Editor:

I would like to bring to the attention.

of the faculty the absurdity of what hap-
pened this past week. Dr. Williamson
required his Bio 21 class to type their
papers into the computer. Do you know
how much sense that makes?—None!
These students, who many had no inter-
est in using the computer for their pa-
pers, were tying up the terminal at times
when Math students, who had no alter-
native but to use that equipment, truly
needed use of the computer. Now, if the

- Bio 21 students wanted to use the termi-

nals, fine, but: requiting th them to, ‘wheth-

_er they wanted to or not, is pointless,

productive, and a needless mo-
necessary equip-
ment. I would h : that Dr, Williamson
and the rest of the faculty will refrain

counter-

from requiring papers to be peed into”

the tanks in “ furure.-
Jeffrey A. Tyler 7 ate

Associate News Editor: Jeff Mann
Sports, Editor: Steven Soud
Opinions Editor: Danny Armistead
Calendar Editor: Susan Graves:
Fine Arts Editor: Debby Williams
Photo Editor: Elizabeth Elkin

Photograghy Staff: Randy Stroud, Kelly Sundberg,
Anderson Scott, Mark Sheffield

Production: Lisa Boardman, Jeff Herrin, Ann Meador,
fg John Lusk James Rozzelle

Staff: Andy Wilson, John Hartman, John Glance, John
Verdi, Jeff Holland, Dianna Bohrer, Peter Gulyn,
Alessandro Vitelli, Debbie Eisenbise, Jeff Hamilton,
Matt Merrill, Elizabeth Smiley, Thurston Hatcher, Jim
Troutman, Linda Hulburt, Scott Huie, Scott Beaver

Fortign Correspondent: Andy Miller, Chris Marsh-
burn, John Stipp

Editor Emeritus: Elizabeth Kiss The Davideonian is published Fridays during the school
; year by the students of Davidson College. Address cor-
respondence to: Davidsonien, Box 218, Devideon, NC

- 28036. Phone 704/882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices lo-
cated on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subecrip-
tions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on
request: Second class postage no. USPS 149.300 1.

Advertising Manager: Karis Herrnstein

New Blood: Mark

nace *

