Sports

Ae CaN Ge bts
: ?
. zz.

- There were no : Spring Frolies for the

“baseball team: ‘Friday night in Chapel
Hill. Instead there was a cloud of dust
and a questionable. call at home plate in
a 1-0 loss to the Tar Heels.

Sophomore. southpaw Doug Wiley
twirled a masterful five hitter; his se-
cond consecutive impressive losing per-
formance: ‘Wiley walked the leadoff
batter, but rode a no hitter through four
innings and into the fifth when he finally
surrendered a single.

The Carolina starter didn’t tire from

All Lanes

For the men’s track team, last Satur-
day’s Furman Invitational was a succes-
sion of “almosts” as time after time, Da-
vidson tracksters gave good efforts only
to finish in seventh place.

The fastest of these near misses

came..as Franklin Ivey ran a seventh- .

place:.4:02.9 in the 1500 meter. This
was his best time by 4 seconds as he ran

a tough race from start to finish but still ~

came up short. Danny Armistead began
this trend with a.gutsy 10:12.8 in the
steeplechase. Although it looked like

his strong, steady pace and good kick -

would haul down the last rivals standing
between himself and a scoringiposition,
his effort wasn’t quite enough. Alec
Driskill placed seventh in, the triple
jump, watching.as Brevard’s Major Tal-
lent beat his best jump by. balé aninchon
his: a

ys. lone: entry in ihe shone.
ae ‘however, managed to salvage a
fourth: place despite almost missing his

stmt Lance Sisco, caught: by surprise...

Fl, owe in the 110m High Hur-.
dles his pre-race. preparations
and ran.a,flustered'.14.5. in. that event.
This time appeared to be Lance’ $ fastest
effort thus, far. this season, but since it
was a handtime, it probably represented
a slightly slower race than his 14,6 atthe

Davidson Relays.. Nonetheless, Lance ..

approaches the Southern ‘Conference

meet, placket Shicvpeny,dfinn fotea.tee as

_ rematch with James Orr of Appalachian

State, who has narrowly. defeated. him -

twice this spring...
Another. place-getter for ‘the track

team. was high-jumper Jeff; Carter, .

who’s ‘been sidelined:.for three weeks
with a twisted.ankle. Jeff placed sixth

eee 3

: through three innings,

with a leap of 6’ 6 a yan nexcellent first-

thep pace, either. He had a perfect game
a no-hitter
‘through four, but in the crucial fifth he
yielded two singles to a win-starved and
vengeful Wildcat team.

In the top of the fifth Scott Redding
stood at second with two out. Pinch hit-
ter Mick Smith stepped to the plate ‘and
hit a ground shot to the shortstop. Red-
ding crossed the ball’s path right in front
of the shortstop, who subsequently mis-
played an otherwise easy play. Redding

time-back performance, and had a

very’ close miss at a school-record -

684". Randy McManus also gave a
good performance, finishing third in
the 5000m run with an almost-PR of
15:10 despite running the first part of
the race boxed in by two Citadel run-
ners and the last part of the race with
no competitors close at hand either in
front or behind him...

The other major, highlight for the
team was its 800m runners. Dave
Stosur and James Gelly ran close to.
the front in the first heat, both record-
ing 57 seconds in their first laps.

James moved hard down, the back

straight but was passed again by Dave.

around the final curve and downhome .
. as he ran a 2:00.5 to. Dave’s 1:59.3. In.

the second heat, John: Hoots..ran a

- strong:tace against:a-classy: field.. His

1:59.6, however; was almost 10 se-
cohds behind the winner, a Kenyan

. Winning unattached. who powered .

down the home stretch:and, not know-
ing where the finish line was, 20 yards

beyond before realizing the wim was.
.his.. An impressive run by both com-

petitors. Coach Sterling Martin is now
lamenting the fact, that there is noa

’ 4x800m relay in the conference meet
as, those three and Frank Ivey would

make.a fine relay team. -

~ Davidson will leave for the South-
ern Conference. meet Friday-morning.
Most of the finals, will be.on Saturday,

' however,,.and our track team is going. .
into that, day’s races with high hopes —
for. some. better, luck. than. their. just-. -
-out-of-the-money finishes. at. the Fur-...

man Invitational. :

.by Jeff Hamilton h

OS" oe ene Bore hig Awe ALT ©
vo DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 April 1982

rounded third as the shortstop fired to
first, but his throw was in the dirt. The
first baseman had to come off the bag
for the play, and he threw to home to
prevent Redding from scoring. Redding
beat the throw, but the umpire claimed

he never tagged the: plate. Final and ©

standing verdict—out.

The.ump didn’t have say when the Tar
Heels scored the next inning. A leadoff
single set the Heels in motion, and the
runner moved into scoring position with
a Steal. The next batter lined a single to

Lead to F: urman

. ) Cats on Questionable Call

right, but Earl Ransom couldn’t make
the throw to the plate.
Wiley ended a sparkling complete

. game with seven hits and a walk, but a

loss despite his mound-heroics.

The other scheduled games were -
rained out, but they play tomorrow at
Johnson City, Tennessee, and then re-
turn-home Wednesday for a rematch
against UNCC.

Steve Soud ’84

\

Mark Gillespie Delivers a Bouncing Baby Mud-Ball

