Boho on the Afterlife

Through some ‘serjes of clerical errors, I have at-
tained the coveted hierarchical standing of senior here
at Davidson. This being the case, I have noticed an in-
creasing emphasis in the conversation of my peers on
the dreaded subject of Life After Davidson. What are
we, an elite enclave of terrific conversationalists, go-
ing to do with ourselves in the hereafter? How are we
going to legitemate the thousands of dollars and oodles
of time and effort that have been spent so that we can
have our present standing in the apostolic succession to
American Success? A large number of us are heading
toward the world of Take-advantage-of-the-vagaries-
of-a-capital-intensive-economy. These people will
specialize in helping people who already have a lot of
money to make a lot more money by pitting hunches
against interest rates. Or they will help people who
don’t have much money to put it in places where those
who do can use it to make a lot more money. In short,
these will be the ones who keep the columns straight
and help certain ones of us out-acquire the others.

Some of us are bound for the world of there-aren’t-
many- ways-left-to-do-good-in-the-world ,-but-help-
ing-sick-people-is-bound-to-be-one-of-them. These
are the ones who are presently talking about rural
health care, preventive medicine, and nutrition, and
will wind up as urologists in Charlotte or radiologists in
Atlanta. To you, good luck getting residence in the
state of your choice. And remember—lots of solid co-
lors for your interview. . |

: Of course:there is law school. Those who choose this
step will have the singular honor of efficiently circum-
venting, semanticizing, and some-times supporting the
infrastructures of society that others in their profession
have told us are the rules people should live by. Maybe
they will even have a hand in creating some of these
rules someday.

Others will get into sales. This consists of the class-
ical Convince-people-that-the y-need-something-that-
they probably don't, then-berin-s- position t0-peo-

John Hartman ‘82

vide-it approach. With a smile. At a reasonable price.

There are others, but my point is ready to be made.

Why? -

Too often, the answer to this question conjurés up
some notions that maké damn poof criteria for diréct-
ing the balance of ones three score and ten in some par-
ticular way.

For many, parents alleged wishes figure into the pic-
ture. But whose life is it, anyway? Mom and Dad

. didn’t raise us to adulthood, buy us a liberal arts educa-

tion, and tell us to brush our teeth every day so that we,
at age 22, would turn around and ask them what we
should do with ourselves. Parents are still great for ad-
vice, but shouldn’t we begin to think a little differently

-about the nature of their authority?

How about this? That for the money one has spent for
this education, one should “get something out of it’’. If
by “something” is primarily meant capital gains, or ful-
filling some perceived niche in the status quo, then four
years of cerebral acrobatics have resulted in a point of
view that does little to reflect the effort. Is having a
neat, self explanatory, title and place in society really a
goal worth seeking? Is this the best kind of stewardship
that we can make of the social and educational advan-
tages that we have received? Each of us here at David-
son has an ability to work in The System. We know
how to play the game by the rules. But will the ability
lead us to become administrators rather than leaders?
Do we leave Davidson behind with the same material-
istic, Consumption oriented, media-induced aspira-
tions and outlook that we could have easily had without
studying our butts off for four years? Are we going to
go try to exist in the system on its own polluting, self-
ish, unstable terms; trying to make it work for: us? Or
are we going to try to make it work, period. *°

If students of Davidson’s liberal arts offerings’ habe
not the awareness and imagination to perceive and
meet needs in their world outside the corporate, profes-
sional tradition and all its bullshit, who does?

We as a society have been convinced by industry,
business, and the media that we cannot provide for our-
selves any of the goods and services needed to maintain
healthy, happy lives.-It is in the interest of thes¢.institu-
tions to have us think this way. The result is that we as
adults are about to inherit the Great Machine are so
worried about not being able to pay for all those goods
and services that we get into the kinds of situations that
I mentioned earlier. Like the freshwater fish who lives
with the primordial fear of being washed to the sea, we
are eternally swimming upstream. But we have only
ourselves to blame. The proverbial Real World con-
trols us only as much as we let it. Fellows of the class of

~ ‘82, Good luck. Seé you in the machine.

>

Tale of One City

(and one student s story)

Let me tell a bit about my JYA ex-
perience in Canterbury, England. But
how can I possible sum up, in a few
paragraphs, the most challenging,
wonderful, and devastating year of
my life?
It was the best of times .
. . Munching on Fish and Chips at
the seaside on.a blustery day.
. . . Gazing out of a train window at
miles of green countryside, trimmed
to golf-course perfection by sheep
striped with paint.
. Late night scurries to the col-
lege chocolate machines for Cadbury
Dairy Milk Bars.

. . The view from the top of Ben
Nevis.

. . A soothing cup of tea (with
milk, of course) at any hour and every

opportunity.

.. . The nighttime view of floodlit
Canterbury Cathedral from Universi-
ty Hill — incredible!

. . Biscuits and tea — the British .

equivalent of milk and cookies (my

favorites were “Chocolate Diges-_

tives!”’).

. The professor’ S first. words. in
class being not, “Did anyone do the
homework?” but rather “How many
for coffee?”

_ .. Participating in a vibrant Chris-
tian fellowship and realizing that
God’s love knows no geographical
barriers.

It was the worst of times. . .

... . The aroma of steak and kidney

pie.
vince confused individuals that there
are a few American families which fit

neither the Waltons nor the Dallas
mold.

. Sugar on movie popcorn in--

stead of butter and salt — suggestive
of tired Cracker Jacks...
. . Massive amounts of rain.
. Lack of direction and encour-
agement to study from most profes-
sors leading to classroom apathy and

real frustration at my meager academ- —

ic progress.
. Waxed paper found on cylindri-
cal rolls located in the vicinity of re-

..Endless conversations to con-

strooms.

One of the most beneficial aspects
of my year abroad was the way in
which my world view was altered.
Spending time as an international stu-
dent, sharing my American perspec-
tive on issues or absorbing details
about.another country or culture from
a friend made me realize how limited
my own little world was. Talking
with others about current events as
viewed from a location and mind set
different from my own made me bet-
ter able to reflect on the world situa-
tion than before. My life and thoughts
were enriched by the people and pla-
ces I encountered and I will never be
the same. Although I’ve returned to
this side of the Big Puddle, I know Ill

never forget the second home I left

behind. .

by Sarah Todd ‘82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982

11
