The Lady Cats ended a seven game
losing slide Tuesday night as they
turned back Meredith, 64-50. It was a
good way to end a tough week, after ear-
lier losses to Wingate 73-41, Catawba,
67-51, and UNC-Greensboro, 69-56.

The Wingate game was definitely a
disappointment as Mayes felt, “The
team just didn’t rise to the ocassion.

“When we play a team with that much

talent we can’t afford to make as many |

mistakes as we did. In addition to mak-
ing mistakes we don’t usually make, we
never got the offense going.” She
added, “We are capable of playing with
teams of that caliber, but only if we cut
down on the mistakes, and do more
things right.”

Despite the fact that the Cats lost to
Catawba, Mayes was very pleased with
the game and the team’s overall perfor-
mance. “Catawba is definitely a higher
caliber. team than we are. When we
played them at home (the Ist game of
the season) we lost by 49, but the other
night we played a game and a half (only
lost by 16). I was really impressed with
the team. They ran the offense well, and
played very aggressive defense. We

outrebounded them 53-25, which is out-
standing. Our biggest problem was
costly turnovers,” she said.

Monday night, against UNC-G, Da-
vidson made another impressive show-
ing against a team that had beaten them
badly earlier in the season. After losing
by 32 at home, the Cats went to Greens-

_boro and made a game out of it, losing
by only 13. Mayes said, “I was really .

happy with the team overall, it was one
of our best outings of the year. We
played well, both offensively and def-
ensively. The player showed that they
are looking to each other more — and
getting used to playing together. They
really showed me some good things on
offense.” Mayes aded that she was glad

‘to see a more balanced scoring attack

emerging, and was very pleased with
the performance of the people coming
off the bench. She added, “The team is
playing with more desire to win. They
are being more aggressive and they ar-
en’t letting people push them around.” .

Tuesday night at home against Mere-
dith the Lady Cats finally got that elu-
sive second victory.-The team came on
strong at the start, pulling to an early 10-

0 lead over the visitng Angels. They
were running the offense well and the
rebounding was exceptional, as they got
numerous second and third shot oppor-

tunities, But-early fouls almost got the

Cats into trouble. ‘With 13-minutes re-
maining in the 1st half, both Howell and
Elliot, who had been rebounding well,
were on the bench with 2 fouls a piece.
For the next few minutes the game

looked sloppy.

Davidson got careless with its pass-
ing and ball-handling as a string of tur-
novers let a suddenly hot-shooting
Meredith team pull to within 4 points, at
19-15. Then the experience and leader-
ship of Frankhouser came through as
she took control. Driving inside, Mike
drew a number of fouls, to get Meredith
into foul trouble as well. As she stepped
repeatedly to the line and calmly sank 6
free-throws in a row, Davidson pulled
ahead again 34-25.

The Cats came out for the second half
with a 36-28 lead. Four minutes into the
half EHiot went out with a sprained an-
kle, and. two minutes later Howell
picked up her 4th foul. Apparently the
Cats would have trouble maintaining

‘dith and pulling’ in.
-Lady Cats were. hevé
- one, and won by’a final Scote of 64-50.

control of the boards. This wasn’t the
case, though, as Cathy Morrell came in
and did a great job blocking out Mere-
in this .

Mayes commented, “I’m happy with
the win, we’ll take a win any time, but
we actually played better against Ca-

_ tawba and UNC-G, This wasn’t one of

our best games. I wasn’t really happy
with the way.we looked, but-we did play
well enough to win, which, was good.
The team did look more aggressive and I

_ could tell they really wanted to win..,,

This was a big win for the Cats as it
means. that the past-season game
(against Meredith), to see which team
goes to regionals will be played at Da-
vidson. A loss would have meant the
game would be played in Greensboro.
Hopefully with the game being played

at home, the team will get a lot of sup-

port from the fans.

The women’s next home. game is
Wednesday night, February 3, at 7
P.M. against Furman.

by Kara Gilmore

David Lyon’s Folk Corner

When I graduated last year, I wasn’t ready to begin
a career. I wantéd to take some time to just live day to
day and let life show me some direction. I decided to
look for a part time job, and as I was looking one day
through the “Help Wanted” section I ran across an in-
teresting item: “School Bus Driver Needed”. That
struck my fancy and I went to apply. I was given the job
very quickly, and the fellow said to go out to the park-
ing lot and pick the bus I wanted to drive. That sounded
a little odd, but I went out anyway and there sat every
kind of school bus you could imagine. There were old
busses, new busses, great big ones and little teeny
ones, different colored ones and off in one corner all by
itself sat a bus painted with Big Bird and Erie and Bert
and the Cookie Monster and all the Sesame Street char-
acters. I knew that was the one for me. I informed.the
man of my choice and he said fine and explained the
route, as I was to begin in the next day.

So early the next morning I got in that bus and em-
barked on my mission. I came to the first stop ‘and was
amazed to see a little girl who about four feet wide. She
waddled up the steps and introduced herself. “Hi, my

_name’s Patrica.” Patrica took a seat, and we and the |

bus groaned off to the next stop. I had to rub my eyes
and look twice because standing there was another lit-
tle girl of spherical build who came right up and intro-
duced herself as Patricia as well! Two of them, at any
easy 200 Ibs. a piece, was incredible. I balanced them
one on either side of the bus so we wouldn’t tip over,

and proceeded. At:the next Stop was a mother with her

son in a wheel chair. His name was Ross and the moth-
er ae hes St: be Melivered to the wperial

DAVIDSONIAN /

“TTT

School. nodded and we went on to the last stop where °
there was a greasy little kid in a polyester leisure suit
who stepped right up, stuck out his hand and said, ‘Hi,
Lester Reese, good to meet ya.” He tried to sell me a
used car and I said, ’Sit down Lester, we're late.” I
drove on, and Lester plopped down in the seat right be-
hind me, took off his shoes and commenced picking at
huge bunyons which grew on his toes. This made me —

ee ee eee

ay 29 January 1982

ered all the kids to schoo! not a momentto.soon.
From there I went directly to the office of the man .
who gave me the job, and announced that I quit. He
asked rial og was just my first day on the job. I said-
‘That’s right! First day on the job, and you’ ve got me
with two obese Patties, Special-Ross and
picking oti iy ona a

23
