,

Continued from.page 1
TY C2 pe y

Dean Ross also felt that the group has
been the strongest so far, and that its
great “willingness to participate” might
help explain the conflicts in opinion.
Most international students were sup-
portive of Hawkins and Roberts and al-
most all of the students interviewed said
that their'¢o-chairmen’ worked very hard
and very ‘enthusiastically. ”

Hawkins and Roberts thought that
their’ experience proved successful in
the long run: “Frankly, I don’t think an-

yone could‘have done a more efficient

job,” Hawkins said. The committee was

burdened by a low budget, hasty forma- .
tion and a lack of experienced leader-

ship. The Union Policy Committee vot-
ed its formation last Spring, and the co-
chairmen were selected by Dean Ross
just before school. “It was all trial and
error;” Roberts said. _

Plans for the Spring include an Inter-

national Fair, involving as many inter-

national students as possible, according

- to Helen .Thorpe and John Hackett.

Hawkins and Roberts said the commit-
tee is considering another proposal ‘to
form a new, smaller committee which
would begin next year. This committee
would replace the larger open meetings
now conducted, would be composed of
a limited number of members (6-8), and
would facilitate the organization of
events.

Hawkins and Roberts said’ they now
have a clearer ‘perspective on the pur-
pose of the International Committee.

_ According to them, its tripartite func-

tions are to help returning JY A students
readjust to campus life and share their
experiences; to organize activities in
which the international students can in-
teract with Davidson Students and in-
crease cultural exposure; and to use the
committee asa medium for student
awareness of world issues. “We’re not
catering to personal needs. This is a
committee for the campus. It’s forum,”
Hawkins said.

This week and in the coming weeks,
the Union is holding sign-ups and inter-
views for a new committee chairman.

Even so, there remain disagreements
about the outlines of the committee, es-
pecially from the international students.
Melis’Nicolaides, for instance, felt that
committee attention to _ .
TYA interests is important, but added
that..‘‘the. nucleus. of: the. committee
should be the foreign students. “Before
he transferred to Duke winter term, Ke-
nyan’Mahmoud-Sayani-presented a set
of proposals to Dean Ross outling direc-
tional changes he: felt the committee
should make..Hawkins-and Roberts re-

fused to comment on the proposals,.and.,
Dean Ross was reluctant to release them «

to the public.
by E Elizabeth Smiley and John Krotchko

aires Cs CE a AE ase AE

24 Professors Discuss Issues of
Global Concern with Freshmen

Twenty-four professors i in groups of

three have discussed issues of global
concern for one hour with all /5 fresh-
man halls in the last few weeks. The
issues covered varied from group to
group but included hunger, the-world
ecological situation, problems in creat-
ing a world bank and the Nestle’ boy-
cott, among many. Approximately 75%
‘of all freshman attended.

The discussions were part of the Task
Force on Global Affairs’ efforts to in-

crease and evaluate campus awareness -

of global issues. Dean of Academic Af-
‘fairs T. C. Price Zimmerman formed
the task force in the winter of last year
following an appeal to all North Caroli-

na colleges by the Carolina Academy of |

“Science. The Academy urged “that a
committee be created to review the cur-

. fent teaching about environmental deg-

- radation, population growth “and re-

source depletion, to propose new teach-
ing programs that emphasize the inter-
connected nature of these three pheno-

_ mena and to stress an interdisciplinary

approach to them. Biology Professor
Cindy Grant heads the eighty-member
committee.

The task force surveyed the faculty
last.March and determined that new
courses should not be created to specif-
ically address world issues. The facul-
ty’s response, Dr. Grant said, indicated
that many Davidson courses, such as
Humanities, Economics, Biology, and
Center courses, contain aspects which
apply to global problems.

The,task force conceived the idea of
_ discussiogs with freshman halls as the
best’ way to ni ptortioting awareness
of global probléms while at a ‘two-day

workshop last August.

Dr. Grant was pleased with the suc-
cess of the discussions. “Most of those
who had not already thought about these
issues,” she said, “were pretty im-
pressed with the magnitude of the
world’s problems, and were genuinely
concerned.” Freshman on Ellis Tinsley
and Brad Mullis’s hall continued: the
discussion for 20-30 minutes after the
professors left.

The task force also sponsored the
showing of “Survival of the Spaceship
Earth” which 100-150 people saw last
week.

The Task Force on Global Affairs
will report to the Educational Policy

Committee before taking further action.

by Dan Turk ’84

The Cultivation of
Capital Gifts |

Davidson College needs $35 million
by its 150th anniversary in 1987. Don’t
tell Jerry Stockdale that it’s impossible.
The new director of select gifts is enthu-
siastic about both Davidson and its mo-
ney-making ability.

A strong background in communica-
tions qualifies Mr. Stockdale for the
job, but it was an attraction to “the who-
ly philosophy” of Davidson that brought
him here. “When I was able to return to
academia, Davidson was my first cho-
ice.”

The Davidson “1987 program” will
attempt to raise its $35 million goal
through four plans: annual giving, de-

ferred giving (such as annuities and in-

. surance), corporate giving, and capital

gifts. Mr. Stockdale is in charge of this
last category, which involves a solicita-
tion of gifts from alumni. Potential do-
nors are asked to form alumni volunteer
organizations whose purpose is-to con-
tact other alumni about donations.
However, solicitation of gifts in-
volves a long, gradual process called
“cultivation.” Potential donors are reac-
quainted with Davidson, to see what the
college is like now. Thus it is not a
straightforward asking for donations,

. but rather a long program that allows the

alumnus to get to know the college

again.

In general, funds from the 1987 pro-
gram go to the endownment, which
helps meet annual operating expenses

for the college. Also, alumni may ear-

mark their gift for a particular purpose.
Mr. Stockdale is very optimistic about

the program, firmly believing that the

goal can be reached and passed before
1987.

Mark W. Batten 85

LEELA ECA NER REY ONGE aeRO PIAS Eee PIE ae ah a

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 29 January 1982

