Even extracts: from ee lives pea mafrows er
trained | animals allowed untrained animals to run

mazes as if they had been trained. Thus, despite the ef- ©

iologi al researchers to describe certain
memorial phenomena in literal terms of biochemical

and physiological events leading to thé:formation of an

ty trace,” the fesults of such stu-
dies are equivocal ; at best; Even when the effect does
occur, it is almost: always a small one, and there is no
clear pattern of succéss or failure. While the fact that
something hasn’t been proven’ ‘yet is no réason to be-
lieve it doesn’ t are often t in psychology, when, an
is.obtained, it is usually

because the ‘wrong sorts of questions-are being asked.
This protraced discussion of rats, excisions, mazes,
and RNA: molecules serves: to illustrate, at a very mo-
lecular level, the common conception of memory the
retrieval from some sort of container within the brain of
an actual, physical object that has somehow been
placed or stored in a container. Cognitive psychology,
by definition the study of human mental activity, usu-
ally deals with this issue at the level of rational aware-

ness, rather than at the level. of physiological pro-

cesses, butit is important to realize that the notion of

memory as.a stored, retrieved “thing” underlies the ar-
~gumerir in all its inceptions. For example, Elizabeth ~~”

Loftus, onthe basis of the finding that subjects take
longer to. confirm the statement “A collie is adog” than
to confirm “A collie is a living thing,” argues that me-
mory is a stored hierarchy of noun Categories arranged

in ascending “order“of generality ‘(he., collie»do-*

g— animal— living thing). Similarly, but at a higher
level of analysis, Roger Schenck argues that memory
consists ofa stored set of “scripts” which encode the
essential objects, actions and actors in stereotypical si-
tuations. For example, a “restaurant script” includes as
objects tables, chairs, utensils, menus and food; its ac-
tors include waitresses and. cooks; its actions include
entering the restaurant, ordering food, eating, paying,
and leaving.-If subjects are presented with a short piece
of prose about eating at a restaurant, upon recall, those
slots in the script that have not been explicitly “filled”
will tend to be inferred as having ‘been present; thus,
the presence of a’ waitress will tend to: be inferred
whether one was explicitly. mentioned or not. Both
Loftus’s and Schank’s theoriés have a number of fail-
ings, but the point at issue here should be clear: no mat-
ter what the level of analysis may be; the notion that the
brain is a container underlies all of our common con-
ceptions about memory.

One of the central tenets of Dr. Brockway” s theory is
that this storage/container metaphor may not necessari-
ly be the best characterization of the ‘phenomena we
wish to explain, and may, in fact, have placed severe
constraints on the types.of questions We'Can ask about
the workings of memory. Specifically’ it hias led‘us to
look for structures that seem to underlie memory,
when, in fact, a more important question may concern

-the function, or activity, of this structure. Just as the act
of addition is not the answer one possesses after one
has performed the requisite operations, so the act of re-
membering does not in any’ sense consist of the thing
that one remembers. Dr. Brockway’s position repre-
sents an attempt to recast these very questions of struc-
ture into questions of function, and he does this
through the creation of anew metaphor.

explain a situation. Note that this definition distin-

" guishes inference from other modes of thinking. For

- example, I deduce from the wom condition of the tire
that it will not last the journey, but I infer from the worn
condition of the tire that the wheel is misaligned. Nor is
inference induction, since induction is in its essence an
In ‘place ‘of the storage/container metaphor, Dr
‘Brockway proposes the notion of inferences as memo-
ry as anew metaphor for cognitive psychology. In the
present context, an inference can be defined as the ac-
tivity by which one changes his position or state of
knowledge in ways that tend to account for or causally

t es: feo! ee ete sete auras
ltisha: mists WN

“Bane =

Salm ipse. on =
——

; Z

attempt at prediction. As White (1971) argues, “Infer-
ences, but not predictions, explain what has happened;
predictions, but not inferences, forecast what will hap-
pen” (p. 293).

Furthermore, inferences are ' all-or-none state
changes. For White, to make an inference is “neither to
journey toward nor to arrive at or to be in a certain posi-
tion”; rathér “it is the taking of B'as a result of reflec-
tion on A..:.It is not something we could start or stop
doing, or be interrupted at” (pp. 289-291). In Brock-
way’s scheme, inference is an all-or-none leap from
one state of knowledge (noncomprehension) to a qual-
itatively different state of knowledge (comprehen-
sion), a leap which parallels, at least in a crude
way, the activities involved in memory, since, on a
given trial in a memory experiment, one either re-
members or one does fiot. Similarly, as Bransford and
Jonson (1974) have shown, it is extremely difficult to
remember something that you cannot comprehend.
Nor is this new state of knowledge something from
which one can easily return to naiveté. Suppose, for in-
stance, I ask you to forget the letter A. Many aspects of
memory, most notably the utter inability to undergo
such directed forgetting seem to point to asymmetrical
activites in memory.

Dr. Brockway sees the metaphor of inferences as
memory as superior to the storage/container metaphor
in two respects. First, it accounts for the generative,
active nature of memory. ‘An inference is at once pro-
babilistic and i ic'in its essence, in the sense
that no two people need draw the same inference from
thé same set of facts, though some inferences are more
likely to be drawn than others. For example, upon
hearing the eerie ae went out to the etre and

-nogaWa8 bitten horribl:

DAVIDSONIAN day 9/Apei 1982

eg the University of Konstanz, West Germany, present-

one individual may infer the presence of a snake along
the path to the stable, another may infer that a horsefly
was the biting agent, and yet another may infer that she
was bitten by a horse when she got there. More com-
monly, consider the party game “Gossip,” in which
one person whispers a story to the person adjacent to
him, who, in turn, whispers it to the next’person, and
so_on, around the circle. The last person’s rendition of
the story is likely to contain a number of embellish-
ments and deletions of the original facts, but these er-
rors‘are commonly errors of detail rather than of con-
tent. In other words, meaning, rather than lexical form,
is preserved in memory for discourse. For Dr. Brock-
way, memory is a'special way of knowing, one that has
as its base comprehension. And when we speak of
comprehension, we commonly refer to understanding
the meaning of something, rather than to the ability to
parrot the particular set of words used to express .this
meaning. The storage/container metaphor, Dr. Brock-
way argues, makes no allowance for the ability to go
beyond. the information, as noted in the examples
above. ,

Second, the notion of inferences as memory is su-
perior to the storage/container metaphor in that it es-
‘capes 'the criticism of dispositionality. Basically , a dis-
positional argument is description in the guise of expla-
nation, as when one attempts to explain rationality as
the product of a “rational faculty,” or hunger as the
product of an “‘appetitive faculty.” In neither case is the
explanatory construct subject to verification apart from
the behavior it was created to explain. Also, disposi-
tional arguments always seem to:point beyond them-
selves in an infinite regress. Just when we feel we are
close to explanation within the storage/container para-
digm, some experimental anomaly..necessitates the
creation of a new mechanism to explain the failings of
the last. But the creation of new mechanisms does not
solve the problem; it merely delays it. For example,
psychologists first posited the existence of “primary”
and-“secondary” memory. Then, certain experimental
findings demanded the existence of iconic stores, ech-
Oic stores, short-term memory, long-term memory, se-
mantic memory, episodic memory, attentional filters,
and buffer states; furthermore,within every one’ of
these stores, there:are assumed ‘to be at least three dif-
ferent “levels of processing.” The list of stores is long,
and it is not ‘inconceivable that anomalies could arise
which would necessitate the further prolidecasien: of

these constructs.

Inferences, unlike containers, seem not to be dis-
positional. First, they are not the product of some con-
tainer, but an activity the existence of which can be

evaluated apart from any:container.' While, within the

old paradigm, we perform experiments only on the ba-
sis. of the assumption that something is stored, under

the new metaphor, we'can state conclusively within the
bounds of a givenexperiment whether an-inference has
occurred or not. As Dr. Brockway (1981) states, “Ina
scientifically acceptable we the process of knowing
about inferences is ire n the domain of analysis
of inferences.” Secondly, experimental anomalies in
the study of inference are likely to result in a refine-
ment of definitions arid methods of study, rather than a
proliferation of inference types.

\ Dr. Brockway, in a paper delivered earlier this year

