The Suggestion of Figure

Jeanette Oliver’s steel artistry

By STAN HYNDS ’83

For the past four weeks, three free-standing works
of sculpture by North Carolina artist Jeanette Oliver
have been in Chambers Gallery. The works are made
from strips of scrap steel welded together and painted
black.

In a telephone interview, Ms. Oliver discussed her
art. Her first artistic medium was painting, but she
shifted to sculpture when she became interested in
piecing together ordinary objects in an assemblage-like
manner. When she turned to wood materials, Oliver’s
work took on vertical qualities that are also found in the
metal sculptures exhibited in the Gallery. Oliver began
working with metal because of the greater flexibility
that comes with welding pieces together, and she also
achieves greater linearity because metal is more easily
manipulated than wood.

Oliver’s first metal sculptures began as pen-and-
ink doodles. The production of her work now, howev-
er, has little reference to preparatory drawings. When
she begins a piece, she works primarily from an idea of
the size, structure, and linearity she desires for the fin-
ished work. Within the limits of that idea, she makes

whatever intuitive changes are necessary to complete .

her artwork. ;
The three pieces in the Gallery appear completely
abstract. Oliver suggests, however, that they possess a
figurative element. Their size and the character of the
lines and shapes suggest a human presence, although
there is no literal human association. No legs, arms, or
heads exist in the sculptures. Only the suggestion of a

v8, 005 uossepuy Aq

works. Oliver acknowledged the human figurative
suggestions of the sculptures by naming them Huas-
car, Amaru, andPaullu— names from Peruvian Incan
royalty. She began using the Incan titles when she was
working with wood and her sculptures reminded her of
warrior-like figures. Oliver stresses, however, that ti-
tles are essentially for identification purposes and too
much should not be made of what the title “means” in
relation to the sculpture. Rather, Oliver thinks that her
sculpture should be allowed to speak for itself.

Oliver was influenced by several sources. Of pri-
mary importance to her work is Pablo Picasso’s paint-
ing of the late 1920s. These pictures, in a somewhat
surreal style, possess linear qualities and an ambiguity
of figures similary to Oliver’s own sculpture. Other in-
fluences that have affected the artist include American
painters Jackson Pollock and Franz Kline, and Japa-
nese calligraphy. Owing to its line use and colorless-
ness, the calligraphy and the work of Kline quickly ref-
er to the metal sculpture. Oliver.also readily admits the
influence of metal sculptor David Smith.

Aside from personal influences, did Oliver’s edu-
cation in art play a role in her development as a sculp-
tor? Education, Oliver thinks, was important to her
(and to artists in general) because it provided the tools
and exposure necessary for her to gain her footing. She
asserts that school helps the artist learn the language of
his work, but that it does not provide the reason for
creating art.

Oliver’s sculpture has been exhibited with prints
from the collection of the College, but her exhibit will

Subject and object

figure exists by virtue of the size and gesture of the be removed 15 October. Hurry.

Record Reviews

_with Jon Glance

The musical form known as reggae
has diverged into numerous styles in the
last several years. Music as slick and ac-
cessible as that produced by Third
World and Black Uhuru has coexisted
with the more roots-oriented dread and
dub of Big Youth, Burning Spear and
Matumbi. This second style has also
spawned the precursors of American rap
music with the “toasters” who tote their
sound systems on flat-bed trucks
through the Jamaican hills and chant
their thoughts over the echoed riddims.
Some famous toasters are Scotty,
Scientist and Clint Eastwood,' and Yel-
low Man. Linton Kwesi Johnson is an
English poet who emulates the sound of
these Jamaican artists, but with a more
sophisticated rap: Johnson’s lyrics stem
from his tortured, evocative poetry.

Linton Kwesi Johnson’s roots lie in
Jamaica, where he lived until he was
eleven, but his concerns lie in the West
Indian boroughs of London, such as
Brixton, Lambeth, and Shepherd’s
Gate. An ex-member of the Black
Panther movement; he has been
awarded a fellowship as writer in resi-
dence’ in Lambeth and has published
three volumes of poetry since 1975. The
songs on this LP are primarily these
poems chanted in a bleak, lethal mono-
tone to the accompaniment of.a very

dread dub riddim—the sound is very
sparse and stark, without the horns or
female vocalists usually found. The vo-
cals are rythmic if not exactly lyrical,
which is appropriate for the urban battle
ground described in the songs. Unlike
many reggae singers, Johnson doesn’t
concentrate on ganga and JAH, but in-
stead on the fratricidal, self-destructive
fighting in the slums. The characters in
the milieu of this album are more likely
to be hit by a broken bottle or be picked
up on Suss than to celebraste the of
JAH.

If all this sounds rather dismal and
pessimistic, I’m afraid it is. There is
such an emphasis on the war and mad-
ness, however, that the effect is to tran-
scend the pessimism into a heroic world
of near-Homeric proportions. The sheer
scope of the dread draws the listener in-
to hypnotic, sinuous songs. A good ex-
ample is the description of the blues
Dance crowd in the title song: “. . .
Night/Black veiled night is weeping/
Electric lights consoling/Night/A small
hall soaked in smoke/A house of ganga
mist/Music blazing sounding thumping
fire/Blood/Brothers and sisters rocking-
stopping-rocking/ . . . Electric power of
the red bulb/Stain in the brain with the
blood flow/And the bad bad thing is
blowing/Ganga crawling creeping to the
brain .. . .” This is an approximation of
the rhythmic stream of conscious flow,

_ LINTON KWESI

> ee

with slashes for the caesura between
thoughts. The isolated words reinforce
the oblique descriptions, and the songs
generally stress Night and Blood and
Burning. Johnson’s poetry is often pol-
itical in nature, usually criticizing the

repressive colonial bigotry of the right

wing. He is just as likely, though, to cri-
ticize the killing of black by black (as he
states, ‘“Fraticide is only the first phase/.
. . but when you see your brother’s
blood just flow/Futile fighting and you
know/That the first phase must come to
an end/And time for the second phase to
show”). The general feeling is that the

|
|
|
7
i

life if the people he sings about can be
changed only by education and force,
riot by Rastafarian faith.

The quality of this album is very
good, but it is sure to arouse deeper feel-
ings than the average pop album—more
intense than perhaps the average listener
wants. The music is threatening and
real, overwhelming and bleak. But it is
also exhilirating in its power, and the
music presented is definitely first-class
réggae. It’s no mistake that Dread Beat
an Blood won the Village Voice award
for best reggae album. Try this album,
and take a walk on a very wild side.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15, October 1982:--.

a a 2 wt Sek 1)

12
