To the Editor:

‘Tam writing. this letter to Davidson
studots as both a Union Board member
and a student, As chairman of the Popu-
lar Films Committee I am held responsi-

‘ble for any misconduct in Love Audito-
riium during the showing of our movies.
During Saturday’s showing of. Apoca-
lypse Now a-great number of people
brought beer into the auditorium and left
the empty cans'on the floor at the con-
clusion of: the movie. (Physical Plant
said that there were at least 200 cans and

bottles in Love.) -

Some of those who brought in ‘the
beer might have been honestly ignorant

of the rule which does not allow food, °

beverages or Smoking in Love Auditori-
um.’ Undoubtably though, there were
some who consciously violated the
school’s regulation. Unfortunately both
of these groups are equally wrong — no
beverages can be brought into ine audit-
orium.

* As atesult of this recurring problem
the Union has reluctantly decided to
have a security guard walk the aisles to
restrict eating, drinking, and smoking in
Love during the movies. I hope this will
not cause too gréat of an inconvenience
for movie-goers.

Richard Davis, Popular Films Chair-
| 4 . Man
_ Scot Myers, Fine Films Chairman

To the Editor:
~ Throughout our, years at Davidson,
we have read, discussed, and often. de-
plored the condition’ of the. Davidson-
ian. We have here consciously collected
our thoughts and opinions regarding the
present and future stale of our school
newspaper. These are not only vitriolic
criticisms but suggestions which we

hope will allow a school of intelligent .

students to produce a weekly paper re-

~

flecting their talents. The Davidsonian
right now is attracting very little interest
among students. It is reaching but a
small circle of supporters. Our criticism
here might be countered by the classic
response, “If you don’t like it, do some-
thing about it.” Well, we did; we elected
a new “editor.”

To begin with, the ghotaptaphy i in the
paper is of the poorest quality. If, as
your masthead indicates, you staff five
photographers, where are the fruits of
oiea Penge The pictures have lost all

often lack any relevance to

Mee cover f icloaeoh related to any sto-
ry or is it part of a new write-in contest,

“complete the caption for $50!”

We feel, of course, that there are good
points about the paper. The news briefs,
for example, are good — they supply us
with what we need to know about minor
events. The calendar is also helpful,
though most: students would like to see
more.coverage of nightlife in the area.

The News section seems. to be neg-

lecting whole areas of interest to David-

son students. If you haven’t noticed, be-
sides Poland and Africa, there. is also
Patterson Court, that seldom seen, sel-
dom written about, nefarious section of
the campus somewhere north of the li-

brary. We tremble to think that the —

earth-shattering, investigative expose:
which revealed the petroleum. jelly
scandal is more important than matters
which really concern Davidson stu-
dents.

The Features section of the paper is an

undefined, boring group of articles,

Features in any respectable newspaper
initiate a creative and unique style of
layout and design: eye-catching photog-
raphy integratéd into fresh designs of
copy, graphics, and borders. Perhaps a
touch of humor and some stories of stu-
dent interest would help. Let DB and SS

_feport weekly on the social and humor-

ous facets of Davidson. The entire paper

_ suffers. from taking itself too seriously,

and that’s too bad.

“As for the Literary Supplement, now

coming out every two weeks: granted
Holland and Abbott.are good, but shall
we be seeing news and sports coverage
in Hobart Park and the Miscellany? We
think it’s better to leave fine arts to the
fine parchment.

Soon, one comes across the Sports
section and expects to see sports — all

sports. Have the trustees already elimi-

nated minor sports, or were those’ high-
land dancers jostling about the hockey
field last term? Steve Soud’s articles are
the only vestige of hope for sports
coverage in the Davidsonian, but we
wonder how long he can tolerate a deaf

ear.

The editorial and opinions section is
hard to analyze because one can often
neither discern where it begins or where
it stops. We would like to see our paper
adopt and support a consistent and parti-
san voice regarding issues of interest to
students. Editorials and opinions arti-

cles are important but not twelve pages

of chaos and a smathering of every
viewpoint on every world crisis. Let’s
leave Poland to Buckley and limit the
opinions and editorial copy.

Overall the quality of the writers is
commendable. They are only hampered
by high-schoolish organization, admin-

istration, and appearance. The layout .
Se could be more atttactive, ahd maybe
tind them. Specifically, is

you: ‘Could'even toss a few verbs into
your headlines.

This campus has the talent to produce
a first-rate newspaper with award-win-
ning writing — why not do it. Itis now a
humorless, Bohemian paper, and this is
not a totally humorless nor totally Bo-
hemian school. Not-everyone eats at

ATO and travels with Boho.
Paul Flood
Dave Fleming
Tom Schember
Steve Stine
To the Editor:

It is really frightening to think that
our current President of the United
States lives by suchi immature principles
as “an eye for an eye” or “kill or be
killed.” It has always been an under-
standing with me that one does not con-
done one wrong with another. Two
wrongs definitely do not make a right,
and yet Ronald Reagan is now planning
to complement the Soviet Union for
their new Nerve Gas weaponry. The use
of gas was outlawed years ago as inhu-
mane (not inhuman, because it appears
to indéed be very human), especially for
use. on civilians. But now, it seems that
in our new age of warfare where morals
no longer exist, and the murder of child-
ren is accepted,’ we are constantly

searching for new and improyed ways to
annihilate mankind." We see no. limit to
our- possibilities. Why ‘stop ‘Creating
when we already have enough weapons
to obliterate the species, most other life
as we know it, and, what the hell, we
might as well take the planet with us? It
feels like a trend has developed with
scientists to try and invent better ways to
kill. It’s ‘all rather farcical, indeed-ab-
surd, but isn’t that the essence of war it-
self?

And now'gas. Why not revamp an
old idea, if it works? It’s not as if they’ re
bringing back the Edsel, is it? This stuff
really kills; it’s fantastic!: People appear
to drown on dry land under. its influ-
ence, or they cough their lungs up and

_spit them onto the ground in a bloody

pile. It is such a beautiful sight.

I’m very proud not to have voted
for a man who apparently condones
such a ghastly method of murder: to die
wretching in agony, eyes agape; is this
not murder? It certainly is not merciful.
Why the hell doesn’t that maniac direct
the funds he’s expending towards the
development of. counter-weaponry?
Maybe even a neutralizing gas (if such a
substance exists)?

Maybe I’m a hopeless dreamer,
but isn’t it more. important that we
should employ our efforts toward sus-
taining the species, rather than expung-
ing it? Is life. not a careless thing to
‘waste? “MAKE. LOVE;. NOT. WAR”

“does not sound like such a bad idea, ev-

en after all these years. Is there really
someone out there who’s not afraid to
“push the button” or to use Sach a hide-
ous weapon as Nerve Gas? A senseless
waste of humanity is all that I can see
ahead as Reagan unfolds our future be-
fore us. But what can you do in the face
of a nuclear holocaust? Kiss your child-
ren goodbye, I guess.

. W.P. Donely

Dear Coach Hussey,
c/o Editor

- Throughout this past season, we
students have been continually. pleased
and excited over the way the basketball
program has developed. As you well.
know, the year began with a somewhat
pessimistic outlook on the coming year.
There was talk of the need to concen-
trate on recruiting, that this was a re-
-building year.

The efforts and- accomplishments
of both the coaching staff and the play-
ers have shown these projections to be
way off the mark. Under your direction,
the team has become just that, a team in
the true sense of the word. Their con-

~ cern and dedication for each other and

the job. they :were doing has. been self-
evident and has not been missed by the

‘college community. The results show

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 19 March 1982
