Friday 30 April 1982

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

ATC Sets Budgets

Freshman Communiqué

Allocated Funding

The Activities Tax Council (ATC)
met last week to distribute $66,000 to
' Campus organizations not sponsored by
the Union. See graph this page.

The ATC also recommended raising
the activities fee. “I feel it should be
raised $10,” Business Manager Bob
Currie said. The proposed increase
would take effect 1983-84 since the fees
for next year are already set.

The activities fee has been $85 since
1978-79, when the Trustees raised it by
$5. Of this fee, $40 goes to the Union
and $45 to ATC-supported groups. The
Union is also expected to request an in-

crease to fund their activities...osace-
, Almost all groups requested higher
allocations this year, as expected due to
inflation. Notable exceptions are: the
Wildcat Handbook, which requested
one-third as much as last year; the
Women’s Center, which became a
Union committee this year; and the car-
rier-current radio station WDSR, which

folded last year.. ATC chairman Danny -

Waddill said the: Wildcat_Handbook
plans.to save money by using the David-
sonian typesetting machine.

» The Communiqué, a freshman mag-
azine which started publishing this year,
received $1000 for publication next
year. Editor John Marks said the current
staff will put out one issue early in the -
fall, and then hand the operation over to
interested freshmen. Marks said they
hope to publish six to eight issues next

year. Marks hopes to gain additional
money by fundraising and selling ads.

The Communiqué received $300 from —

the Union and $100 from the SGA this
year and published two issues. Marks
said the staff also sold doughnuts and
made some personal contributions.

The only group to request an in-
crease and get cut this year was The Da-
vidsonian. Waddill said the ATC rec-
ommended that The Davidsonian re-
duce the number of issues and number
of pages per issue to reduce costs.

The Residence Hall Council. (RHC)

the ATC “felt they could work better
through Mr. [Housing Director Bill]
Bolding’s office,” Waddill said. The
RHC requested $150 this year. The
RHC used its money in the past to buy
equipment for dorms such as ice ma-
chines, washers, and dryers.

The ATC is made up of students and
administrators. The SGA president ap-
points the chairman who appoints the
four student members. The SGA has ap-
pointed Union Director C. Shaw Smith,
Dean of Students Will Terry, and Currie
to semi-permanent positions. The other
students members are Senior Elliott
Stotler, Junior Mike Mason, Sopho-

_ mores Julie Cheek and George Thomp-

son, and Freshman Rod Holman.

Jeff Mann ’84

Activities Tax Council Budget Distribution

1961-82/1962-83

seers.
3
t

4

receivedne- funding: this. year because’ =

The Davidson Noise Study Committe
drafted a noise ordinance proposal last
Monday that will be considered by the
Town Boartd after an open town meet-
ing on May 11.

According to college representative
Joe Ford, “Davidson students will have
little trouble getting along with the ordi-
nance because it’s not very prohibit-
ing.”

The proposed regulations would limit
sound levels to 70 db from 8:00 a.m. to
11:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thurs-
day. It would allow the 70 db noise lev-
els to be extended to 1:00 a.m. on wee-
kends.

The proposal would permit the town
to make exceptions for special events

like Spring Frolics, however. The town
would grant the college a variance
(noise permit) to extend the weekend
hours to 2:00 a.m. and noise levels to 80
db.

The proposed ordinance would not
constrain students, says Davidson May-
or Nancy MacCormac, but would “im-
pose a responsibility to refrain from ex-
cessivce noise.’

Violators of the ordinance would re-

. ceive a warning for the first offense; a

citation, $100 fine, and a possible
abatement (power cut off) for the se-
cond; and a citation, abatement, and
fine after the third offense.
Mayor MacCormac says that the
proposal-has “a very good chance of be-
Continued on page 5

