What Cost Sanction?

It is December, 1981. In Western Europe a new so-
cialist government is in power in France. West German
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt is being increasingly crit-
isized as his nation’s economy continues its downturn.
Unemployment throughout western Europe is very
high. Western Europe is still dependent upon Mideast-

ern oil. Across Western Europe there isan anti-nuclear, '

“Green Movement” that is focusing on’ preventing a
new generation of American medium-range nuclear
missles (Pershing Il) ‘from being deployed in Europe.

In the United States a conservative:Republican Presi- —

dent is in’ power and his Secretary of State is a contro-
-versial figure. And the Polish army declares martial
law, effectively giving General Jaruzelski powers of
army, state, and party. This ends months of labor un-

rest and pressure from the Solidarity free-trade union,

the only such union in the communist world. The
growing economic troubles and the communist party’s
unpopularity is a great source of anxiety to the Soviet
Union, Poland’s neighbor, bankroller,. leader of the
Warsaw Pact, and principle supplier of raw materials.
It is in this atmosphere that. President Reagan an-
nounced his version of economic sanctions against the
Soviet Union and Poland on December 29, 1981, only
several months. after. having lifted the grain embargo
against the USSR: in ‘by President Carter for the
Soviet invasion of Afganistan. Given this context,
sanctions must be viewed in their proper perspective: a
symbolic gesture of displeasure toward the Soviet
Union and the Polish Council for National: Salvation,
headed by General Jarulzelski. Assuming the sanction
are honored by other nations, this objective may be
realized, but at wilt © cost to the Polish population, the

American business community, or perhaps most im-
portant, to the cohesion of the NATO alliance, and
West German-American relations in particular?

The sanctions announced by President Reagan in-
clude the cancellation of port-of-call rights for Soviet
and Polish. fishing trawlers; the ending of Moscow-
New York air service by the Soviet airline (amounting

to two flights a week); the suspension of licenses to sell

high- technology goods to the Soviet Union and Po-
land; and the suspension of talks on future grain
agreements — but not of grain exports themselves.
Another. side effect will be a dry well for the Soviet
Union and Poland with Western banks to which Poland
is especially indebted. Here the question must be
asked: Who is this going ‘to hurt? Quite possibly, fish-
ing will bé curtailed in U.S. controlled waters, to the

detriment of Polish, as well-as Russian, grocery store —

shelves. Besides this, the embargo of high technology
equipment will probably affect. our ally, West. Ger-
many, since much of this equipment was to be used’in
the construction of a-natural gas pipeline from Siberia
to West Germany, to help lessen its dependence on im-
ported-oil.. No matter; the equipment can. be bought
elsewhere,:in Japan for-instance.

‘And what about our allies? Why have they not re-

sponded in kind, as good: allies should? For one reason,
Western Europe depends much more on trade contacts
with the East than the U.S. Sanctions would greatly ac-
celerate the economic troubles:in Western Europe. In
addition, to some Western European leaders -this
American reaction only seems to confirm the Greens’
conception of Reagan and Haig as ‘the “Mad

Bombers,” making ‘the nuclear issues even more

thorny. Moreover, sanctions represent a skewed ap-
proach to Western Europeans who see mutual trade,

dependence, cooperation for peaceful coexistence as

more effective — and a good. deal safer — than trade
and association as weapons.

Certainly, European caution cannot be chalked up
to apathy since West Germany and other nations have
tremendous investment in loans and outstanding debts
in Poland. But, the most Eropean perspective, and-one
which I think has remained lost on Americans, is’ what.
has become known as the “Hungarian Lesson.” The
Hungarian uprising in 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968,
and the prior Polish uprisings, have illustrated the fact
that Eastern Europe is the Soviet sphere of influence.
Period. Trade and detente are:possible, but Solidarity
threatened the power of the Communist party and Po-

-land’s position in the Warsaw pact. To aid Eastern Eu-

ropeans in earnest would invite superpower confronta-
tion and possible nuclear war. This the West cannot do.
Sad and deplorable as the Polish situation may be, Rus-
sian intervention could have proved much worse for all
concerned. If martial law fails, intervention is even
more likely.

In light of all these facts, does.the cost of sanctions
seem worth it? What will they achieve? What could
they provoke if the situation becomes more serious? I

- confess I.am in sympathy with Solidarity and its:goals,
and if symbols, are. important, then I accept sanctions as

important. But let’s not kid ourselves about their p po-
tential for bringing positive developments, or more se-

rious consequences for Poland or the U.S. and her al-

lies.
Will Berson 83

Reds

The movie Reds, Warren Beatty’s dynamic brain-
child, should have been filmed in black and white be-
cause of all the grey areas it explores, It is a-superstruc-
ture of interwoven personal and political: tensions
which suspends the viewer for three and a half hours
and does not let him down too gently. Co-written, di-
rected and produced by and starring Beatty, the film in-
corporates the personal and public lives of the histori-
cal American Communist John Reed in a manner
which answers far fewet questions than it raises. Yet
the decidedly un-cerebral viewer still enjoys the plea-
sure of seeing an appealing and emotionally engaging
story brought into living Coles mnie of the. grey
matter. ~

The questions Reds subtly raises are ¢ legion. Not the
last of these uncertainties is the dividing line between
the actor and his character. Reed, author of Ten Days
That Shook the World, was much more intimate. with
Lenin than the movie even implies. Beatty is obviously
‘consumed by his role and must certainly ‘be familiar
with the man the role. portrays, (having researched
Reed’s life for 15 years) but he has not resolved the ba-
sic conflict he so skillfully sets up: Is Reed a true-blue
American journalist who happens to be an active com-

munist, or is he bogs Red, ‘oils ty sacrifice his lov-

DAVIDSONIAN /-Friday 15 January 1982 -

ized and sterilized character of Louise Bryant played
by Diane Keaton) to prove his ideological tenacity?
At heart Reds is a love story. Beatty subordinates
the more important political questions to the resolution
(albeit effective and emotional resolution) of the ro-
mantic uncertainty between Reed and Bryant. Concu-
bine, comrade, or wife? Questioning the status of a ro-
mantic relationship is Keaton’s cinematic forte, but he-
retofore she has had Woody Allen to counter-confuse
the issue. In Reds, Beatty’s strong and childishly will-
ful character incites Louise’s bleak pilgrimage to fol-
low Reed, even though it destroys her own moderate
success and stateside security. Keaton’s character ulti-

‘ mately is the true revolutionary. She helps the viewer

anticipate the denouement by asking if men and wom-

_ en can possibly. live and love. as equals regardless of

which political banner they carry, or pretend to carry.
In this. respect, ‘Louise: ‘Bryant appears to be the true
communist also. —

'  JohnReed has a revolutionary mind stuck inside a
middle class body. Though no armchair communist, he
wavers between the comfortably intellectual coterie of

Greenwich Village activists and artists (including such

notables as Eugene O’Neil, Max Eastman, and Emma
Golden) and the stark realities. ‘of bone resting

and painfully enacted.

I recall complaints from other back-seat critics to
the effect that Beatty is too pretty a character. This is
precisely the point; Reed, as Beatty envisions him,

- wants Communist Russia to be’a mirror of his own

handsome ideals. He doesn’t find it, or rather, does
find it but shattered and smudged. Fortunately, the lens —
of Beatty the director-producer is ‘more whole. His
casting is generally appropriate, and superb in the
cases of Eugene O’Neil (played by Jack Nicholson)
and Emma Goldman’ (Maureen Stapleton). Another
case of behind-the-set brilliance is the use of “wit-
nesses,” persons still: living who actually knew the
characters, to all both verisimilitude and some not-so-
subtle humor (notice especially the bald, slighitly as-
kew-lipped ex-pornographer Henry Miller and his mat-
ter-of-fact coniments on “the couple”). Although I am
not trying to justify Warren Beatty’s I’m-not-such-a-

hot-actor-but-now- =you-know-I-can-write-and-pro-

duce attitude, I think Reds deserves our attention if not

‘our admiration. I'could probably hyphenate this fine

movie into an‘Academy Awaftd based on my apprecia-
tion of it, but that is not the point here. I would simply
like to recommend Reds to the Tevolutionary and lover

‘inall of us.

By Andy Wilson ’84

19
