Stray Cats:
Built Far Speed

Among the Teddy Boy bands that have gained popu-
larity in the last few years, the Stray Cats have un-
doubtedly gained the most recognition both in England
and the U.S.A. With two albums having been released
in the UK, the group has at last released an LP in this
country. Built for Speed is a compilation of songs from
the two import records and it has garnished some good
press for the group, including an appearance on Amer-
ican Bandstand a few weeks ago. Since the Stray Cats
are beginning to crack the notoriously tight playlists of
American FM stations, it séems promising to review
this British rockabilly band this first week in the record
review section.

Ray Charles once said something to the effect that
the only good topics for songwriting are having fun,
driving around, someone talking too much, or a wom-
an doing someone wrong. The Stray Cats seem to have
taken Brother Ray’s words to heart. The first side of the
LP deals with having fun in “Rock This Town” and
“Stray Cat Strut,” hot rods in “Built for Speed” and
“Rev It Up & Go,” and a London airhead named “Little
Miss Prissy.” The closest the Stray Cats get to a topical
statement is glorifying beach fights between Teds and
Skinheads in “Rumble in Brighton,” which resembles
the theme in Quadrophenia but with different contest-
ants. Side two includes a sleazy fifties-style ballad,
“Lonely Summer Nights,” and stereotypically mysog-
ynistic remake of Eddie Cochran’s “Jeannie, Jeannie,
Jeannie.” All the songs are proficiently executed, but
there are problems.

The element that made the original rockabilly of Jer-
ry Lee Lewis, Eddie Cochran, Gene Vincent, Buddy
Holly, and others so special is that elusive quality
known as soul for lack of a better word. The point was
not that you were able to twang your guitar or slap you
bass a certain way, but that you were tasting the first
freedoms of adulthood while still retaining the exuber-
ance and recklessness of adolescence. While Elvis and
the Killer may have shocked the bourgeoisie in their
day, that was not their prime objective. The Stray Cats
at times seem to be living a pose, as if all you have to do

SR i aa

is get dressed up, greased down, and tattooed over like
working class greasy Gene Vincent in order to be a
rockabilly star. In any case, the Stray Cats seem a bit
hollow at times; as a rule, however, the Stray Cats are
about as good a rockabilly act as you’re likely to hear.

The LP itself exhibits high production value, with
several of the songs produced by Dave Edmunds of
Rockpile. The trio comes across well, especially lead
singer and guitarist Brian Setzer, who evokes Eddie

‘Record review with Jonathan Glance-

Cochran as effectively as anyone else I’ve heard. He
hits just the right tone between cynicism and naiveté. If
you are a fan of rockabilly revival bands, I would rec-
ommend that you get this album. If you just like rock
and roll in general, however, I think you'd be better off
spending your money on a good Jerry Lee Lewis or Ed-
die Cochran record. Built for Speed is a good album,
but the Stray Cats don’t transcend their genre enough to
really achieve their potential.

The 12-lecture course on tape

’ FOUNDERS OF WESTERN PHILOSOPHY:
THALES TO HIJME

BY DR. LEONARD PEIKOFF hy
author of THE OMINOUS PARALLELS and lecturer on OBJECTIVISM ®, °°

the

philosophy of
AYN RAND

THE FOUNTAINHEAD, ATLAS SHRUGGED

Cost: $85.00

For details contact Bob Klein

POE IIB Paes

oisube: :

| Sesh nl iil i cic

8 | _ THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982
