—They can’t play rugby ...

—Tennis players, mmmmmmm

—The facilities are great: I knew that all U.S. colleges
had their own stadium or whatever, but coming here
has proved to me how seriously they take college sport.
—But unfortunately they seem to direct too much mo-
ney int> football and not enough to the smaller sports.
—I’m impressed by the amount of people that partici-
pate.

“I’m interested when

I meet someone who’s a feminist or
a vegetarian: these seem to me to be
ideas that one would associate with
cosmopolitan living, which I don't
associate with Davidson”

Do you think that people from Davidson are cut off
from the rest of the world, so to speak?

—I’m interested when I meet someone who’s a femi-
nist or a vegetarian: these seem to me to be ideas that

one would associate with — ieving which I.

don’t associate with Davidson.

at home I don’t.

—I think I’ve learned less than my American friends
have, since Europeans are so much more exposed to
the American way of life than they-are to‘ours. ” :

Do you think; then, that having been to Davidson will
help you when you start university in England?

—Not academically, but I will be able to adjust more
easily.

—We’ll be undergoing the same sort of independence.
—TI won’t be as cynical or as untrusting as I was before
I came here.

Do'you feel strongly about anything?

—You need longer shields on the Asteroids.

“Y ou iced

How choise the food: ?

—Initially it was a bit of a shock, like fruit salad with ;

cream, chicken and beans. « .
—The iced tea, too. Everyone assumes that since the
English are such great tea drinkers, then they must
have had iced tea, but I’ve never had .it.
—I’ll forgive them for the junk food and the plastic
food for the introduction to brownies and frozen
yogurt.
_ —... And Wizard of Wor.

So, you think the ten weeks were long enough to give
you a taste of American college life?
—Yes, it’ll take me that long to tell everyone about it
when I get home.

Hester Abrams & Sandro Vitelli, ’82 Rusk Scholars

é e are writing this week’s article in a rather
; \ N sentimental vein because. Monday night was
our last visit to the best bar in the area, the

‘Double Door Inn, and because we're Seniors, and be-
‘lieve it or not we’re really. gonna miss this place (as-

suming we graduate). We’ ll miss those. warm co-eds
and the swinging party scene, SPE songs in the 900
Room (boy those were great), 60¢ Molsonis (long ago),
Will’s smilin’ face, everybody’s pal Occifer Klutz,

funk music, the housing office room game, and Cora-
nomics, It makes us want to cry...for-all you poor
suckers who have to stick around.

Anyway, back to the Double Door, located on In-

3 - dependence Blvd. across from CPCC. This bar has |
_ long been an area favorite for those enjoying good

R&B and Rock ’n Roll and occassionally Bluegrass.

‘It’s not very large, so get there early if you expect a

crowd (and: pray there’s not a fire!). Beer prices are

| about average and wine is also available. Usually a
| cover charge is collected at the door.

‘The Double Door can boast of such guests as the

" Nighthawks, the Allstars, the Allycats, Catfish Hodge,

Mike Cross and Minny Moore. On Monday night we
watched the Skip Castro Band, whom we assume you
all saw on Wednesday night, put on atypically hot
show. This bar brings ut the best in performers, espe-
cially with a tightly-packed, rowdy crowd to spur them
on. If you haven’t been, then where the hell have you
been? The DD gets the BB Five Proof Award.

We have. recently received word of a challenge |

match between the Laffarty House Gang and the
DCFR’ers to tear down Laffarty House first..A crazed
Mike “Greek” Iordanou, team captain, has been re-

=ii35|Booze Brothers take

ja sentimental journey

ported to scream in his sleep “death do dee ’ouse!” Bill
Bolding, referee, has agreed to provide a free keg to
each team and ond for the winner to ensure complete
destruction. This DCF Workday, according to Bold-
ing’s estimate, will save the college some $10,000 in
wrecking bills, which will go toward the purchase of

~ more badly-needed bricks. Zach Long, Alumni-Rela-

tions Director, has indicated that he would like to get
alumni and parents involved, and asked that the contest
be postponed until 4:00 pm, May 23, following Com-
mencement. Long was reported to have remarked, “I
think this contest is a splendid idea and should really
stimulate alumni support for the 1987 Housing Erec-
tion Plan.

__ Disco Update: In the interest of modesty, we print-
ed these people’s opinion of this week’s 900 Room dis-
co: T. C. Price Zimmerman: “a confabulatorial pheno-
mena of omnipentagraphical hipadrominus.” (transla-
tion: “it blew my socks off!”) Will Terry: “an event the
likes of the college community has never seen before
and will never see again.” Hal Klutz: “it exceeded the
decibel limit.” Jerry Garcia: “reminded me of Kesey’s
Acid Tests.” Anonymous Ruskette: “really powerful
music, but I couldn’t shag to it.” Cora Nelson: “the
marginal utility definitely- outweighed the marginal
propensity to save.,.that is, in a pure market setting.
Discos could be big business someday.” Lex Alexand-
er: “obnoxious music for an obnoxious person. I really
liked it.”

. Aiko! Aiko!
The Booze Brothers

Contributions to this column by Clkyde, guru to the
Booze Bros.

- DAVIDSONIAN / Friday’? May 1982
