Volume 6 LXXINumber 1

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 24 September 1 1982

Summer Thefts in Belk

Property stolen during dorm renovation

$6,627 worth of stored goods were
reported stolen from the Davidson cam-
pus thi s summer, and many more stol-
_en goods have gone unreported. “I’ve
never seen a summer where we’ve had
so much stealing before,” said Housing
Office Director Bill Bolding.

The police have arrested only one
man in connection with the crimes.
Captain Hughes has charged Morris-
ville painter Alan Bray, 26, with pos-
session of stolen goods.

Most of the larcenies took place in
Belk dorm, but thieves looted the entire
campus. Andrew Wells, Norwood
Smith, Dan Metzel, Carl Vass, Eliza-
beth Wilson, Dovy Hansen, Elizabeth
Brazell, Gary Schenk, John Tooler, and
Robert Bruce have reported their losses
to the police.

Hughes says that the police have no
leads in the case because Bray “isn’t
talking.” He encourages all, victims to
report their losses so the police will have

Housing Office Ransacked

more information to use. “We need a
victim for a search warrant,” Hughes
says.

The College hired contractors to
renovate Belk dorm this summer, but
Bolding says he was not informed of the
renovation plans. When he arrived this
summer, the contractors had taken ev-
ery door off its hinges, and the thefts
had begun. Bold says he “picked up
the stuff that.was valuable” and stored it
in his office, but the stealing continued.
Bolding says that the thieves broke into
his office three times this summer and
that they have broken in once since
school began. “It makes me feel like no-
thing is secure, that you can’t leave any-
thing,” he said.

Bolding said his “greatest concern”
was with “the painting contractors,” but
he is not making any accusations. Cap-
tain Hughes says that “I can’t say who
did it,” but that “the only one we’ve
caught was a painter.”

The thefts have harmed the students
most. Robert Bruce lost $2500 worth of
stereo equipment, and Carl Vass lost

$2380 worth of clothing, including fif-
teen LaCoste sweaters. The list of stolen
goods includes: clocks, radios, stereos,
cameras, speakers, rugs, pans, popcorn
machines, typewriters, records, tapes,
posters, shoes, bedspreads, antiques,
refrigerators, coffe pots, calculators,
jumper cables, power tools, and even
books.

The College did not insure any of
the items. According to. Bolding, “All
storage was. ‘at. your own risk.” Sopho-
more victim ‘John Toler says he knew
about the risk but that he had to leave
something because he “didn’t have any
more room in the car.” Toler says that
his homeowners’ insurance should
cover the loss.

Fortunately, most students’ insu-
rance will make up for the losses. But
SGA President Tim Johnston, under the
direction of Dean of Students Will Ter-
ry’s Office, is organizing a committee to
examine the problem.. The group in-
cludes Bo Young, John Storey, Robert
Bruce, and other directly affected stu-
dents. Johnston says that the group will
tryto atain “some kind of compensa-
tion” for the victims.

Johnston feels that the best solution,
however, is “to find alternative places
for students to store their belongings.”
Captain Hughes agrees: “The solution is
don’t let students leave their stuff here.”
David Resnik ’85 .

fore the Georgetown football game with

Warner Hall, the new all-women’s
eating house, began operations 14 Sep-
tember, after a six-day construction de-
lay. The building, formerly the Bailey
freshman eating house, was moved to
its present location between the Fannie
& Mable and ETC houses to make room
for the Commons.

On 5 February 1982, College Presi-
dent Samuel Spencer approved the
Warner Hall proposal that was submit-
ted to the Council on Campus and Reli-
gious Life in November 1981. The new
eating house is named after former
Trustee chairman Warner Hall.

The house plans a full social and ser-
vice calendar, which commenced be-

Warner Hall Takes Off

an open mixer. The women also sold
beverage huggers during the game to
raise funds.

There are 48 sophomore, nine jun-
ior, and four senior members of Warner
Hall. The board fee is $390, and the so-
cial fee is $50. Warner Hall’s officers
are: president, Connie Kyle; vice-presi-
dent, Mary Tabb; treasurer, Anne Roll-
ins; secretary, Elizabeth White. The so-
cial chairperson is Ellen Rowe with Jane
Alexanian as assistant. The kitchen
manager is Meg Surratt with Elizabeth
Elkin as assistant. Mary Grey Reddick
is the House Manager and Laura Taft is
in charge of fund raising and service

projects.
By Andy Wilson

