Booze Brothers ©

The ’boys saddle up
the Palomino

The Booze Brothers hope to provide
useful reviews of entertainment alterna-
tives to the Patterson Court, 900 Room,
and other Davdison ‘‘stand-bys. We
serve to broaden the student body’ s per-
spective of available non-academic ex-
periences.

In our acute depression last Monday night over the
NFL strike, we just weren’t good company forthe li-
brary, so we struck off southward toward the UNC-
Charlotte frontier.

We think it little to expect a Student Union to be
drawing beers for the Body, but alas, no on-campus
pub! These students are literally forced to go beyond
their campus’s boundaries and are refused encourage-
ment to stay to themselves.

The two UNCC hottest-spots are both within a mile
of campus: Limericks and the Gold Nugget, north and
south on Route 49, respectively. Again, Monday mor-
ality struck as we found both places closed.

At last, your determined frontiersmen arrived at
this week’s watering hole, The Palomino, at its new lo-
cation 3'/ miles north of Darryl’s on Albemarle Rd.
This massive bar seats 1200, and it usually packs in
3000 wranglers on a hot night when a top-name act
plays. All this according to our cute and profession-
ally trained bartender, Wanda.

B.B.: Two dollars for this? You must be joking!

Wanda: I’ve been pourin’ liquor for ten years and
that’s an ounce and a quarter, damn it!

Anyway, on this night we found plenty of wide-
open spaces since there were, at most, 30 people

scattered around on a floor the size of a football field. .

The Palomino (which originally served as a ware-
house) draws its design and character from the fa-
mous Fort Worth’s Billy Bob’s where live bull riding
begins at midnight.

At the pine bar we placed our order of preferred
poisons. All beers (bottles only, the usual Anheiser-
Busch labels—Schlitz, Stroh’s) are a dollar; house
brand mixed drinks are $1.75, and Red, White, and
Rosé are a dollar a glass.

The Palomino currently serves from three bars
and a fourth is in the works. Also planned are a deli,
barbershop, and shoe-shiné, stand. A privately
owned Urban Cowboy Clothes shop on the premises
sells hats from $19-230 and western shirts of incredi-
ble colors and styles averaging $25. In addition, this
shop carries all the cliché, glitter, pseudo-Western
gear that made Travolta look so sharp.

On stage, playing country boogie, was the house

‘act, Harold Hill and the Frontier Band. Like most
club bands, this one offers a staple performance.
Live music appears seven nights a week from 8 p.m.
to 2 a.m. Upcoming gigs include Lee Greenwood
(October 15) and Terri Gibb (October 28). Specialty
nights are open mike talent night on Sundays, La-
dies’ champagne night on Thursdays, and $1 mixed
drinks on Wednesdays. We expect this place to raise
hell on Saturday nights.

The Palomino is a private club and as such wel-
comes members and their guests. But being the
swave guys that we are, we just went up to the door
and wooed our way in through the ticket gals to the

tune of $1 per head. We expect that you too could do
the same on a slow night. But as the law is posted,
memberships are $6. The dress code prohibits biker
leathers and chains and hats with bills and discour-
ages the E-Rusk Preppie look. Stuffed-to-the-seam
designer jeans were most abundant on men and

women who are cow-punchers by night because the
day work is not overly involving.

P. S. At the time of this writing, patrons of the
Palomino can still enjoy “brown bagging,” but back-
East mentalities are threatening to suspend this free-
dom.

First, you can apply for an Army
ROTC scholarship. t covers tuition,
books, and supplies, and pays you
up to $1,000 each school year it’s
in effect.

But even if you're not a
scholarship recipient,
ROTC can still help
with financial assis-
tance—uy: t0 $1,000 &
a year for your — Ca
last two yearsin ((] sxe
the prograri.

For moe
informaticn,
contact your
Professor cf “Yijag
Military Science Wie

pe ALLYOU CANE.

For more information, &
contact Capt. Brauer,

Belk Dorm,
892-2000 ext. 170

EVEN STRAIGHT AS CAN'T
HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION.

Today, the toughest thing about going

to college is finding the money to pay for it.
But Army ROTC can help—two
ways!

G

g THE DAVIDSONIAN/1. October 1982
