One thing all of us have had to get used to here in Ke-
nya is being constantly conspicuous. Not only are all of
us a different color than nearly everybody else. , but we

‘are also decidedly larger than the people of Western
Kenya. I never really noticed that difference until
someone showed me a photograph of forty people in
which I stood in the back, a full head taller than anyone
else. Now I’m an average American six-footer, but im-
agine how Vince Parker feels at 6’4”! Also, because of
the lack of television, movies and many photos, we are
the only thing like us that many local people have ever
seen.

. The moment we step out of the house, we are on con-
stant display — and sometimes even inside the house
when children peer in the windows. Everyone in the
community knows all about our movements and dis-
“cusses them, criticizes and advises. Sometimes it is fun
to know that you can make someone’s day by waving
or greeting or shaking hands. Most of the time, howev-
er, itis extremly tiring to cause a sensation wherev-
er you walk, with shouting, a parade of children fol-
lowing and endless questions. It is an experience that
makes one appreciate what the handicapped, circus
freaks or very small minorities go through.

This eveing I became-annoyed to find that one of the
teachers I live with had his young niece over to spend
the night. He thought I was very. unreasonable, which
may be true, but also he may not appreciate the situa-
tion completely. The problem is that I am stared at,
laughed at; shourted to, talked about in languages I
don’t understand and generally on display all day every

day. My time at home at night is my time to be sane and

normal, and here is this young girl who’s afraid of me,
unable to speak and making me feel a stranger in my
éwn house.

The honors accorded a teacher and especially a for-
eign teacher can become embarrassing. It is difficult to
visit any home without being showered with gifts,
meals, and being expected to-stay at least two hours.
This further becomes a problem when you know the
family is poer and should not be wasting such gifts on

)

iY

Editor of re DaWiDsoniAN
- Davidson Co .eqe

\ Davidson, Na Cx

N 2.8036

you, but in African custom it is extremely insulting to

refuse such gifts.

Another problem we most all come to terms with is
the general assumption by many Kenyans that we are
extremely wealthy. Of course, comparatively, . we are
very wealthy and carry the evidence of nice cloths, tape
players, trips to Nairobi etc. In additioin, when people

ask about our homes, we must admit that our parents .

Andy Miller: A Letter From Kenya

have cars, televisions, permanent houses, they all have
jobs, etc. Because of this, we are constantly asked for
aid, help, or even cash outright — sometimes by total
strangers. People often don’t understand that we are
products of an affluent society, and are not personally
loaded with cash to give away. In a way, that too is
frustrating because there are so many who need and de-

serve help that sometimes, you find you have given ev-

erything possible and there is simply nothing left.
There really is such a thing as giving until it hurts — it
hurts to turn the next deserving project or person, away
because there’s nothing left, or you’re too tired.
Of course, what I have described is a general’ public
situation. In the homes and communities where we live
and are known, many people accept us as just plain
folks. One group that has really made my time‘in Ke+
nya wonderful is a church choir with which I sing and
dance. It is wonderful to be just simply another
member of the group--not a leader, not an honored gu-
est, but one of the rest. Being in a foreign culture so
long has really made me appreciate how essential it is
to havea sense of belonging. Many expatriates here,
especially those only here shortly; hang around with
only other expatriates, which at first I criticised, but

_ how understand. We Davidsonians have been very

lucky here to have in most cases become a part of our
communities. It really makes all the difference in being
able to cope with being unique.

I hope you are getting things from others to fill-in
with, or you are using some of those student writings I
sent when the post office fails. Enjoying this winter? It
was 85 degrees today.

Every young idealistic woman dreads the thought of

instead of a young good-looking guy who really turns
her on, regardless of what her mother says is good for.
her. “Most Happy Fella” dramatized this unfortunate

A more appropriate title for the production might have
been “Most Unhappy Gal”, but of course women of
this play’s era were expected to “learn to love” sensi-
ble, if stilted, husbands,

opportunity to present a real-live Broadway musical to
this community. The actors and actresses, indeed,
lived up to all expectations. They were strong and vi-
brant with grand voices all of which filled Love to the
max. The energy and effort that lasted throughout the
production paid off — even the piano duo with bass
and drums rived with excitement. The entire crew
never quit.

Too bad the plot died, Act Lis spent. convincing the
audience that mail-order brides deliver, and they do
just that as Joey discovers on Rosabella’s and Tony’s

sabella spends Act II trying to fall in love with Tony,

10

‘| being forced tomarry an old.overweight “fatherly” man .

situation last week here in our own Love Auditorium. |

The College Union was fortunate enough to have the

wedding night! After a one-night fling with Joey, Ro-

the sensible choice. Tony’s sister Marie, belonigs ina

Greek tragedy. She not only:torments her brother’ s de-
sire for youth but eventually runs Rosabella’s and Ton-
y’s possible relationship in the ground. I kept waiting
for Rosabella to pick up her bags and join Joey. in the
vineyards for alittle “fermentation.”

_ The last Act was the least credible. Potentially
promising, several serious and tragic incidents occur

which leave one wondering if, indeed, this’ were not
“West Side Story” or “Romeo and Juliet.” Tony tries to
kill Joey, Joey runs away without a word, and Rosabel-
la sings another one of those horrible songs see how
much she loves Tony almost as if trying to donvinte

-herself. Tony promises to care forJoey’s baby: b@av-
‘erything works out, we hope: Actually} I'd ehéakohe

Local Divorce Cases in the Napa Valley Daily in a¢ou-

ple of weeks. Forced situations as.this Seldom. work,

not even in the good old days.
I’ve never viewed any performance which got s $0 ex-

"i cited over the least little thing. Every which way the ac-
tors/actresses turned, they were’singing — And not
"} about unrequited love or the great mysteries of life. —

Valuable’time was spent singing about feet, standing,

and making.a fist. If someone felt good, they sang

about it. If they felt “Warm All Over” or missed their

“Mama, Mama,” they felt compelled to bellow ouf the

same lines over and over again. All in all, the story was

tedious and melodramatic. The actors and actresses did

their best, but the part-I liked best was helping Patty,
Bud, and Chris set up lights.

Lindsay L. Biddle .

