Continued from page 13

Marsh’s “Pigs” and “Cows” results basically from. his

ingenious marriage of bright and earthy tones with...

black paper. The artist’s loose and looming depiction
of these shapes are far more convincing of living crea-
tures than a’ clearly delineated one would be.

Marsh again uses black paper o effect a gloomy at- |
mosphere in. “Dam, Dan River.” A particularly stic-
cessful: work, this riverscape depicts a vaguely Hop-.

per—like Dam building whose windows court echoes
of their own shapes i in the falling water across the dam..

However, the riverscape which blushes the most lyri-
cal qualities is “Flooding Dan River.” Marsh both
flourishes and tames startling color in the diptych by
limiting his use, for example, of the blue of far shrub-
bery but.at the same time juxtaposing it with muddy
tones of the river to enhance it. Furthermore the artist
seems to tease Nature somewhat by depicting a scene
which includes several lines of bushes parallel to the

picture: plane amidst. the rushing water, ranks of —

stranded treetops, perhaps, which look suspiciously
like the same row pictured from different angles as if
they were separate entities. As in “Pigs,” “Cows,”
“Hydrangeas,” and certain other works, “Flooding
Dan River” again presents a manipulation of similar
shapes throughout space, responsible for the large, as-
sertive rhythm of the piece.

Regardless of the: subject matter of the individual
work, Robert Marsh displays in his oil crayon “paint-
ings” color, texture, and composition unified by their
insistently masculine assertiveness and size. They de-
serve and demand more than a glance from across the
Gallery. Visit the exhibit: brave-and breathe the bold
Nature of Robert Marsh.

Linda Hulbert ’83

+ Jim Hawk and Jim Troutman

wal: |
- 905-BA-2121-

ON ACA Oacrenited camp gpeciaiaing
UL wocter eports with added. empraie
on land sports , 15 looking or potential
Counedies of Doys ard girls Cetwen

| the age of 7 and Wo. Counsdevs
nuk Wave the ability to tad in ow

one OF more of reampsaaintie-— |

> for moe information write CampThundered
Rh 7,GoK 5

mr

tee C ,

5s DinOW Sli awo ead ne tron

> ral rare) teu ny) otTt rhs ay d ont

The Booze Brothers Hit —
the Milestone: Disgusting ?

OK. We're ready to'roll. Our hangovers have been
dealt with and now it’s time to deal with that dump we
were in last week: Dump! Yep, that’s about the best
way to describe that place. Even Gill Holland would
feel lost in that jumble of broken bottles, chairs, and ta-
bles. By the way, we’re talking about The Milestone,
located about a mile from I-85 at the Glenwood exit.
Count on passing by the place three or four times be-
fore you spot the plain, unlit sign that stands i in front of
the boarded up, yellow house.

Once you get inside, you’re in for a real blow, espe-
cially if you’re accustomed to. PJ, preppy women and

juke box beach music. The inside is dimly lit(obvious- —

“ly to hide the nastiness lurking within) and a faint her-
bal fragrance pervades the air. The bar definitely has its

unique qualities (if that’s the right word for it).-Grafitti_.
fills most bare spots on the walls and conveniently does’

away with the need for beautifully framed Rembrandt

or Ruben originals (see T-bird, we did remember
something).

The ragged walls are covered with the names of pop-
ular artists, such as the Dead Kennedy’s, Screamin S--
ts and Happy Eggs. Bloody-looking footprints,
punked-out collages and peeling plaster to, induce the
proper psychotic atmosphere for this bar, where bodily
harm seems to be the least of anyone’s concern... If
you're expecting to do some shagging to such greats as
the Rondell’s or Chairman of the Board you’ve defi-
nitely landed in the wrong bar. We suggest you bring
you shoulder pads and sharpen up your elbows for'this
bar’s favorite mode of movin’, slam-dancing. If Ed
Farrell wants to whip his boys into shape, we suggest
he send them down to this “joint” for the night. Who
knows; if they can handle the hitting there, they might
even pull out that big one next year against Wofford
(Go Cats!).

There were a few good aspects: to this bar: you
could sneak beer in instead of paying a dollar for it (of
course, we never did this, but some other guys did),
Ice-9 played a rousing set of rock ’n’ roll and luckily,
the Wogs (the back-up band) were forced to quit at
10:30 due to the city’s juvenile curfew law.

In general, we had a great, but extremely bizarre
evening. We plan to bring our good buddy Bill Bolding
down next week to get some ideas for remodeling Laf-
ferty House. Till then, we wait anxiously for this
week’s disco and a chance to attend another exciting
Rusk function.

Disco Mpdate; Where was it? We went up there and
nobody came . . . so we left, What happened? If you lo-
cated it, call us at 892-8707, otherwise forget it. It

probably wasn’t any good anyway.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

re >|
