Library Questions
Hubbub

By TIM MCGAUGHEY ’85

Library Director Dr. Leland Park
recently conducted two separate sur-
veys concerning noise levels in the li-
brary.

The Library conducted the first poll
over a veriod of four days during two se-
parate weeks and received 300-400 re-
sponses. Two hundred randomly select-
ed students responded to the second sur-
vey. Dr. Park says that the reuslts of
these surveys should be out in the next
two to three weeks.

The Director’s policy concerning
student noise is that “the library is for
students and therefore they should de-
cide how much noise they will tolerate.”
His staff is for research assistance and
not to police the library. The building
naturally has different sections which
allow people both to socialize and
study.

Dr. Park says that the basement
study areas provide a quiet atmosphere
for serious study, while the front part of
the first floor gives room for students to
talk. To illustrate the popularity of his
student-oriented policy, Dr. Park cites
the 1,500 patrons who use the library
daily.

Hall Counselors

_ By PEGGY PIEROTTI ’86
Who could ever forget their first
term at Davidson? Everything is so dif-
ferent—academics, social life, room-
mates, and independence. The only real
guidance, in fact, is in the form of two
well-informed hall counselors.
Carefully selected by a 9-10 person
committee consisting of Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry, Sue Ross, the two
Freshmen Advisors Mike Mason and
Amy Crittenberger, a senior who had
been a hall counselor, two current hall
counselors, and one freshman, these
men and women are then provided with
an official Hall Counselor Handbook
which states on page 3 that they serve

By Peggy Pierotti '86

“primarily to ease the freshman’s ad-
justment to college life and to promote a
climate in which the individual student
can grow and develop to the full extent
of his ability.”

According toathe handbook, the
counselor also “acts as a resource, cata-
lyst, and consultant,” and the job will
vary from “developing study habits” to
“roommate adjustments.”

Will Terry says that the presence of
these counselors is “a prime reason we
have such a very low attrition rate here
at Davidson.”

According to Terry, there are “at
least twice as many applicants” than po-
sitions for hall counselors each year.

Among the qualities necessary for
counselors, Terry lists “a willingness to
support the College, diversity, an abil-
ity to handle the load, good study hab-
its, social awarenes, and an ability to
handle leadership and discipline.”

There are many advantages to being
a counselor, however, according to
basement Richardson’s Caroline Boud-
reau, “It’s really neat to get to know all
the girls so well.” Hunter Monroe on
First Center West feels that the best part
is “doing all the [freshman] stuff again
and doing it right.”

Diversity is another important ad-
vantage of being a counselor. Steve
King says that his First West “encom-
passes the entire spectrum of humani-
ty.”

The major disadvantages of being a
counselor include lack of sleep, drink-
ing, and roommates who do not get
along.

Hall counselors provide a major
source of Davidson’s environment, es-
pecially freshman year. They provide
help, relief, and memorable times.

Financial Aid
Up-in-the-Air

CPS—College students should expect
the same or less funding from the feder-
al government over the next few years,

‘the Reagan administration’s top higher

education official told a convention of
loan officers in Colorado Springs, Colo-
rado last week.

Edward Elmendorf, acting assistant
secretary for potsecondary education,
told a meeting of the National Associa-
tion of State Scholarship and Grant Pro-
grams and the National Council of
Higher Education Loan Programs taht
the U. S. Dept. of Education’s next
budget proposal will probably be much
ike its last one.

That proposal, offered in February
but ultimately rejected by Congress,
called for a 50 percent cut in federal stu-
dent aid programs.

Elmendorf would not reveal specif-
ics of the next Reagan education
budget—it is, he says, still being ham-

mered out—but predicted the adminis-
tration would try ot reduce the number
of aid programs from seven to three:
Guaranteed Student Loans, College
Work-Study, and Pell Grants.

That would mean consolidating
Auxiliary Loans, State Student Incen-
tive Grants (SSIGs), Supplemental
Educational Opportunity Grants
(SEOGs), and National Direct Students
Loands (NDSLs) into other programs.

In the last budget request, the ad-
ministration tried to abolish SSIGs,
SEOGs, NDSLs, and Student Social
Security. It succeeded only in eliminat-
ing Student Social Security.

“T don’t think we need seven student
aid programs to do the job of helping
needy students through college,” El-
mendorf told a panel on government
support of higher education.

“Our concern is to eliminate waste
and increase efficiency in the programs,
not to deny education to deserving stu-
dents,” he explained. “But we’d also
ask that deserving students pay their fair
share.”

Elmendor said the adminstration’s
program to get students to pay a bigger
share of their education costs before
qualifying for aid is working.

_ Private college students, he said, are
now paying a greater percentage of their
college costs themselves.

But Charles Saunders of the Amer-
ican Couricil on Education pointed out
that those students come from wealthier
families, that they are borrowing twice
as much money as they did last year,
and that a recent study showed lower-in-
come students had been forced to trans-
fer to cheaper public collges because of
the aid cuts.

Colleges
Responsible For
Frat Antics ???

CPS—A court decision and a new law-
suit may make fraternities, sororities,
and even colleges themselves liable for
members’ hazing injuries and deaths.

Until a Virginia court decision earli-
er this fall, only individuals had been
held liable for hazing incidents.

Now a University of Delaware
student has sued his fraternity and the
university for injuries he suffered dur-
ing Sigma Phi Epsilon initiation rites
two years ago.

The two phenomena, some feel,
may force college administrators to reg-
ulate more closely the activities of area
fraternities and sororities.

In Virginia, a court has held the Phi
Kappa Sigma house at the University of
Virginia liable for $125,000 in dam-
ages. A fraternity member had hit a
pledge in the head with a beer can.

At Delaware, a student two weeks
ago sued the university and Sigma Phi
Epsilon for damages associated with in-
juries he received during a “Hell Night”
ritual in 1980.

At that time, one brother poured lye-
-cleaner on the pledge, causing second-
and third-degree burns on his head,
face, chest and back.

“I don’t know of any universities
that have been convicted of partial re-
sponsibility in a hazing incident,” notes
Mary Kennard of the National Associa-
tion of College and University Attor-
neys, “but such a case could always
come along.”

Administrators say that a finding
against a school may force them to re-
strict fraternity ‘parties and to force
houses associated with the schools to
show proof of insurance.

Until recently, the most severe pun-
ishments for hazing activities were cam-
pus suspensions.

But California, New York, and

Wisconsin have passed anti-hazing laws
which make jail sentences and fines au-
tomatic for fraternity members convict-
ed of hazing pledges.
- A group called the Committee to
Halt Useless College Killings, founded
by the parent of a student killed in a
1978 hazing incident, is lobbying for
anti-hazing legislation in Congress.

“I don’t think fraternity hazing is ac-
tually on the increase,” observes Jona-
than Brant, executive director of the Na-
tional Interfraternity Conference, “but a
lot more people are talking about it, and
concerned with eliminating it.”

Brant, who stresses hazing is strictly
forbidden by all national houses, says
fraternities are “working on ways to pre-
vent hazing before we have to decide
who was responsible.”

Selective Service
Charged With
Wastage:

The Central Committee for Con-
scientious Objectors, the nation’s larg-
est draft counseling agency, charged
Selective Service with wasting taxpay-
ers’ money by planning to mail a quarter
of a million lettrs to suspected non-reg-
istrants in an effort to enforce a non-en-
forceable registration.

“The federal courts handle about
30,000 cases a year at this time,” stated
attorney at CCCO Jim Feldman. “So
far, only eight of these cases have in-
volved non-registrants. There is no way
the courts can handle hundreds of thou-
sands of new cases.”

The names of these suspected draft

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN/5 November 1982
