The Bold Nature of Robert Marsh

An Avery C ollege Professor’s Crayon drawings on Exibit in the Gallery

If you have passed the doors to the Gallery lately,
you could not have escaped a glimpse of coquette sun-
light flirting with lush hydrangeas, or Dan River flood-
water vanquishing forgotten banks, or a bevvy of lazy
haystacks sunning themselves in a field. Robert
Marsh’s “Landscape Drawings” demand attention and

response, The rhythmic masculinity of Marsh’s oil.

crayon strokes record the heartbeat of the works, con-
vincing the viewer of a dynamic landscape moving and
changing through time. Thick, deep colors beckon the
eye and render a space inviting the viewer to partici-
pate.

Marsh is presently a professor at Avery College, a
small co—ed Baptist college in the Southern Virginia
town of Danville. After receiving his MFA from the
University of Mississippi in printmaking, he continued
to work predominantly in that medium until several
years ago when oil crayon, or “painting” as he calls it,
began to claim a larger percentage of his time. Still a
distinctly graphic quality persists in his “Landscape
Drawings,” works which derive primarily from the
Pennsylvania County images surrounding the artist.

Marsh’s paintings reveal a sharply—honed con-
sciousness of shape. Often he juxtaposes the pastoral
with the man—made not only because he finds an ap-
pealing and natural interaction between such shapes
but also because local landscapes in reality seldom ap-

_ tacks,” and

pear devoid of all human evidence. One group of
Marsh’s works, including “Cows,” “Pigs,” “Hays-
“Hydrangeas,” do not necessarily profer a
synthetic subject matter but nevertheless do present a
domesticated Nature. This series, possesses a unique
characteristic of the majotity of Marsh’s works in the
Gallery in that each of the three works displays the art-
ist’s manipulation of similar, usually large shapes
throughout space.

The rhythmic patterning of the visible strokes per-
meate the entire exhibit: Also, as is most visibvle in
“Haystacks,” since it is composed of four sections,
Marsh uses the polytych or mutli—section vehicle to
counteract the horizontal thrust of the large rhythmic
shapes.

Strong horizontal bands. and angles span many of
Marsh’s landscapes. The artist harnesses these bands
with the verticle space in between sections of a work al-
lowing a normally static element to become much more
dynamic. “Haystacks,” for example, would not be
nearly as impressive a piece if it were done on one con-
tinuous surface. Each of the four sections succeeds in-
dividually as a picture but yet does not yield the power
of the whole. “Haystacks,” the largest polytych which
Robert Marsh has attempted, was created with the
Gallery’s dimensions in mind. Originally Marsh de-
signed a fifth section for the right end but sacrificed the

plan for artistic judgement.

Three of Marsh’s’four Dan ‘River “puiiitings” reveal
the same horizoiital bands*6né ‘may: note°in’ *Hdys-
tacks.” In “CP&L Company” ahd “Dam Dan River,”
both diptychs, the device of iriterripting the horizon-
tals is particularly successful when compared to
“Above Flood Stage,” a single picture which allows
the eye no relief from the angular band which domi-
nates the scene: Within all three of these: works ‘Marsh
creates a mood of précarious tension‘ byimbuing: the
simple, straight, angular Shapes with an alynost sublim-
inal turbulence rendered by his visible’ sttokés. The
conflict between the two give birth to the’ ‘excitement of

’ the words.

Perhaps the most striking quality of Robert Marsh’s |
oil crayon.landscapes resides in their color: Just as the
shapes and textures of the works are imposing; the hues
which the paintings brandish divulge a brazen profun-
dity in Marsh’s art. The-artist achieves amazing depth
by layering porous coats of primary colors and their
complimentaries to render objects in light and'shadow.
This textured stratification of hue engenders in the
landscapes an appearance akin to that of Impressionis-
tic paintings. However, Marsh’s works do not disclose
the scientific: study of light-as' found in Impressionism
but rather a more subjective, intuitive, and perhaps Ro-
mantic response to color itself. The hiveing volume in

an on a 21

” aif . ?
. + + ‘ é ‘

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982 .

13
