What w was s Davidson
like before beer, girls,

and asteroids?

nside the house at 319 South Street sits Edgar
I: Linker-with his wife Grace, each Per eE Ke

ing and passing the hours away. And inside sits a
long to be remembered part of Davidson College.

For thirty-three years until he retired in 1972, Ed- —

gar “Cop” Linker was Davidson’s night watchman.’He..
was responsible for making sure all went well around
campus after hours. His job included enforcing rules of
ion College of old. Ahat meant no alcohol -

and no girls: ;
Did Cop ever come across Davidson gentlemen

with alcohol? “Oh, yes,” he says with a grin. “A
number of times they’s be coming in_Jate at night~

whooping and yelling and not feeling anything. Every-

thing would be’ coming along fine and then they’dsee ©

me and they'd take off. I never ran after them. I just let
them go.’

And the girls? They were often a problem. “T used
to Say. we wouldn't have. any: trouble on campus until -
the girls came,” he ‘Say$., He: femembers when, ifacar™
full of girls came driving thr £0 igh the campus; the first
student whd:saw them would yell “Fire!” Students who
heard the code word ‘would run out of their dorms and’
try to throw water on rule-breaking trespassers.

On the. “big ‘weekends,” the girls came legally,
Those were the times when Cop had to check the soccer
fields. “They. weren‘t supposed to park out there like.
that. Lots of things going on that shouldn’t be. It
wasn't any trouble to me — they’d see me and ws
take o

“One time I was driving down on the field,” he re-
calls, “and I nearly ran over four couples lying out
there in the grass.”

Pranks were a bit more creative in the past. Linker

came across plenty of them, including the mixing of »

honey, dirt and sand and the placing of it in front of
doors. Water fights were more common: then, too.
“I’ve seen water r running down the stops of Belk Dorm
just like a river,” he says. ~

Linker understands that such: behavior i is not quite
as prevalent now. “It seems to me that Students now are
more mature in their thinking or something,” he Says.

‘During his 33°years, Cop was more than‘just their
night watchman. He was a friend to all: There were stu-
dents would go'to' him for-advice rather than going to
someone higher up. “Most people regarded’ Cop as a

and an administrator when Linker was here.

“They respected his judgement,” says Mrs. Linker. ‘

She remembers one boy who’ asked Cop whether ‘he
should get married. Another student left his quarreling
family at home and spent the Christmas holiday with
Mr. Linker in the security building.

In 1952, Cop Linker became a campus hero. One
night he spotted a suspicious car and recorded its li-
cense number. The next morning the’ college disco-
vered that someone had gone on a burglary spree dur-
ing the night. The next night someone burglarized
Clemson. Police used Linkér’s license tip to track the

suspect. Georgia police surrounded the man’s house in’

Atlanta, and in the burglar’s attempt to escape, he shot
and killed an officer. He was never tried here. He was
convicted and electrocuted in Georgia, and all because

10

:

good friend,” says‘ Will Terry, who was both’a student 2»

of an attentive Davidson night watchman.

In 1972, at age ‘75, Cop Linker retired. “It came on
so-sudden,” says Mrs. Linker, “he didn’t really have
time ‘to‘regret it.” Will Terry’ says, “We lost a real
friend — the college moved into a new éra.”

It has been ten years since Cop retired, and the
Linkers will be celebrating their sixtieth anniversary
next November. “The Lord’s been mighty good to us,”
Mrs. Linker'says: “We're together yet —if we can just
stay together.’I tell him ‘be‘careful’ because if he falls
and gets a broken bone and has to go into the hospital,

well; then we’ ll be separated ‘the rest of our lives. It’s
not a very happy thought, but it's something you have

‘to face.”

Linker reassures her. “Pm gonna try to keep on the
optimistic side of things,” he says.

They are living life a day at a time: They’ve had a
few problems, but they’ve worked them out. They

_spend their days o the proch of their cozy white house,

Linker reading, and Mrs. Linker creating Christmas
ornaments.

He’s not working here anymore. But he’s still here
in the hearts of many who remember him.

Thurston Hatcher 85

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 7 May 1982
