» Dr. cecil Welieobeatn; the visiting Reynolds
lecturer, appeared in the 900 Room Wednesday and
Thursday for talks’ concerning artificial intelligence
and the ethical and moral implications of our increas-
ingly computerized socity. He is currently Professor of
Coniputer Science at MIT (“the belly of the beast” as
he once said) and he has authored a book entitled Com-
puter Power and Human Reason. He gained considera-
ble notoriety for his part in developing the language
analysis computer program ELIZA (honoring the Pyg-
malion mythology in Eliza Dolittle)—a clever program
which allows a computer to “dialogue” with a patient.
Dr. Weizenbaum’s sessions here were meant to be
more discussion than lecture he did not dwell on schol-
arly debates concerning artificial inelligence and his
talks weren’t particularly focused or quotable. The
ideas he proferred were important and somewhat sur-
prising considering the close association of his name
with certain advances in computer science.

Dr. Weizenbaum was born in Germany, but his fam-
ily immigrated to this country in 1936, when he was
13. They settled in Detroit, and he studied engineering
at Wayne. State. University. His first chance for free
experimentation in. computers came when General
Electric opened their experimental laboratories in Cali-
fornia and-he was given a position with the freedom to
pursue his own research: He. chose to research the pos-
sible application of computers to the behavioral scien-
ces..In.1963.he: ‘joined the faculty of MIT.

-AtMIT he developed ELIZA. The program,was me-
ant tobe an experiment in language analysis, not a
development in. psychotherapy. The psychotherapy
mode of conversation was chosen because the com-
puter would not needa wide ‘information base—its
comments could be careful reflections of the operator’s
comments; The program hs been greatly ballyhooed by
people in psychology and the computer-age prophets-
of-doom because it was almost frighteningly success-
ful as a surrogate psychotherapist. For example, Dr.
Weizenbaum’s secretary once asked him to leave the
room becuse dag felt her session with ELIZA was pri-
vate.

It is ‘that port ik poeumio hich nosis tab Weizen-.

baum's special concems with the computer age, and in
acpi ab ea deg vale fea thc

~ Photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85

sot it pda yo bg an wih ls

