David Lyons‘ Folk Corner |

I must first apologize for some mistakes ‘in last”

week’s music. In the third measure of the second line
the first note should be a “c” natural. In the last meas-
ure on that line the dotted quarter note should be a dot-
ted half and it should not be an “e” but rather a “g”. In
the second measure of the fourth line there should be no
dot, as there appears to be. Sorry about that and I’ll try
to keep the copy-more accurate.

This week's consideration is style. ‘Style i is the way
you do things. A particular style is determined by the
way the musical elements (e.g.-rythm, tone quality, ar-
ticulation) are handled. Most categories of music refer
to style. The terms “classical”, “ ue”, “old time”,
“bebop”, etc., may bear the marks of specific time pe-
riods, but more importantly they are names of styles.

This column deals with folk music. That term in its
broadest sense takes in music from every culture in ev-
ery location of the earth throughout the entire history of
humankind. Here we are concerned with the considera-
bly narrowed realm of American folk music and its
British Isles’ heritage. Let even this ‘Portion of the
world’s folk music is rife with styles ranging from re-
gional Irish fiddle styles to old time and bluegrass mus-
ic in America.

There is only one way to learn music, and that is to
listen and play. That is also how we become aware of
style. If you wish to understand folk music better listen
to as much live and recorded folk music as you can.
You will hear both bad and good, and hopefully

Merrily

Photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85

Kiss The

Odaker's Wife

Leish Jig
G

—- =
—_

Ca aie al es Maat NOD a ae

‘through much attentive and critical listening you will

separate the bad from the good and make your own
choices better and better.

If you don’t have your own reordings, ask, some
folks, there are bound:to be some nearby. In our area
there is also tremendous opportunity to hear live folk
music--at fiddlér’s conventions, dance events, and
play togethers. To foster contacts with music I will be -
including an events list with this column.

Here is my message: We the musicians must’ be
aware of the style with which we play. This is not to say
we should be bound to any existing way of playing.
Some take the extreme and reject all existing styles and
strike out on an “original” one. That is not for every-

one, either. Whatever one plays, however, deserves

thought and attention as to what it is (its style), where it
comes from and where it is going.

This week’s tune is an Irish jig entitled, “Merrily
Kiss the Quaker’s Wife”.

EVENTS

Every Monday. American and English Countty Danc-
ing with live music, Beginners welcome: 8-10 P.M. at
the Belmont Park Methodist: Church near the Krispy
Kreme in Charlotte. Ss 00.

“February 26- 6 Replies Coungy: Dancers Dance
- Weekend. Traditional English,and American dances.

Live music and a storytelling workshop. $15.00 forthe

weekend or come Friday or Saturday night for reduced
tee. pli raat Ralls igen scp vac ae ue

Tf you want more information or havé something to’

contribute get in touch with me at 892-1323.

EE a Se OME a dea C ONE aaa

esr tea ene
CS Ait STE ETS
