orts

lt

Road Trip Abstinence

Eight years is'a long time to go with-
out sex, much less a road trip with three
consecutive Southern Conference wins.
So imagine how ‘it felt to:the Davidson
Hasketball team — something akin to

ofgasm.
dit Tenens
Last Wednesday night Jamie Hall

called his lovely wife Michelle from
Johnson City, Tennessee “We’re gonna

-win tonight,” -he said: Not ‘too many «

people would have taken him seriously
at the time, especially considering the
Buco had routed Davidson 69-59. in
Johnston. Gym, . ;

‘Well, Jamie has probably never been
called Isaiah before, but this time-his
prophecy proved right. The Cats upset
East Tennessee 71-69.

. Apparently it was all in the head.

“We were really in the game mentally,”
said Assistant Coach Jim Baker.

With 6:40 left in the game. and the
score tied at 61, Hall ignited a go-ahead
spart for the Wildcats. which quickly
melted away.. Hall hit. both ends. of a

side magic all night, and Lady Luck was

not about to make a premature exit.

With :50 left Aaron Douglas hit a three
point field goal, and ten seconds later he

gave an encore that cut the Cat lead to:

69-67. JC missed a couple one-and-
ones, and with :20 left they opened the

‘lane. for a game-tying layup. Carroll,

however, wasn’t about to let his team-
mates down, ‘as he canned at 10: foot
jumper from the right side with :03 left.
Final verdict: DC 71, ETSU 69.

But the win meant a whole lot more

than a higher digit in the win column.

The Cats won against heavy odds and
against the same team that had emba-
rassed them at home, and.all the while

with the same game plan. ‘They won'on:

the road, which. is tough to do'in the
Southern Conference. But most impor-

‘tantly, as Kenny: Wilson’put it it,“A lotof

things came together’ for us.”

Marshall

Marshall. would, be the test to see

just how ‘fauch came together and —

‘two point game. The difference was

that both teams could stake a claim on
that statement.

Just before the midway point of the
half the Herd was thundering before a
crowd of 8,852: in the newly-opened
Henderson Center. The coaches were

having obscure thoughts about a loss,

but the team wasn’t. Brian Rowan
and Cliff Tribus combined for a string
of six unanswered points, and by half-

time a 26-17 deficit had been leveled .

off to 33 apiece.

‘Al McGuire figures the first four

minutes of the second half are crucial
to a team’s confidence and morals,
and the Wildcats wouldn’t jump to

‘disagree: They outscoud the hosts 13- ©

6 in the first seven minutes’ as they

built up momentum.

“Dowithe stretch, though, a usual-

nez rly cost them the game. Rick Wil-
son missed the front end of four one-
and-ones, but made up for it with
some key steals. -With :07 left Jamie
Hall set up atthe line for two shots,
and: with a 61-59 lead, but missed

VMI

It’s hard to get psyched up for a team
that’s 0-14 overall, 0-5 in the confer-
ence, and playing in a not-so-cavernous

- 5,000 seat arena which is cavernous

with only 1,800 occupants.
As a whole, the team wasn’t pumped
up, and thus VMI cut the lead to 3 at one

' point. On the other hand, Kenny Wilson

was so pumped up‘he didn’t play well,
scoring only 12 points.

KW’s lackluster performance wasn’t
of great detrimerit; hoWever, due to su-
perb help coming off. ithe bench. The
team voted the: game ball to the whole -
team because of the unified effort. For

example, senior walk-on Gary “Stork” |

McDonald, starting only his second
game, scored 10 points grabbed 3 re-
bounds and. lagged..in 26 minutes of
playingtime. —;

Coach Baker was ‘happy with the 72-
58 outcome, “It wasn’t a pretty.game to
watch, but we accomplished a lot a our
team goals.”

Tomorrow night the red hot Wildcats
host the even hotter UT-C Moccasins.

one-and-one, Kenny Wilson scored whether or not the win over East Ten- —_ both. It came down to one last Mar- —_ The Mocs were 8-0 in the Conference as
four on a layup andaone-and-one, John _nessee was a turning point after all. _ shall shot, but it didn’t fall. _ _ «@f mid-week, so it’s a showdown of No.
Carroll added some more, and soon _‘ Forty minutes of basketball indicated The game came down to the free —- I vs. No. 2. Monday night the Keydets
thereafter Davidson held:a comfortable _ the affirmative as the Cats came on _ throws, where the Cats won several’, » of VMI will be in Johnston Gym.
69-61 lead with, just over.a minute to _ top 61-59. games last season. “It could have been
play. As, was the case at Johnson City, . a 15:to 20 point game if we'd hit our ge
The Buco, however, had had the out- _ the game really shouldn’t have been'a _free throws,” said Kenny Wilson. © by Steve Soud
Athlete of the Week
_ Mike Frankhouser :
| Women’s Basketball .

% ¢

This week's Athlete of the Week i is Mike Frankhouser. Mike, a junior from Atlanta, continued: » pay cist bas-
! ‘ tball wa provide team headersnip for the women’s program. Last week against Catawba she had 15 Points and 17 re-
bouinds, against UNC-G she stored 14 points and hauled — 16 rebounds, and in the Metedith win ‘she scored 22 and had

/ 12 pulls: At this point Mike is the team leader — rebounds poe 4), scoring ls Ds and steals 0).
