News Shorts

New Alumni
Director Named

James William May Jr., former so-
cial studies chairman at Peachtree High
School in DeKalb County, Georgia, has
been named director of alumni activities
at Davidson College.

A 1970 graduate of Davidson, May
also holds the master of arts degree from
_ Georgia State University. He has served
as a social studies teacher in Georgia
schools since 1974.

At Davidson, he served as president
of the college union board, a Richard-
son Fellow, and a member of the year-
book staff. He was listed in “Who's
Who Among Students in American Uni-
versities and Colleges,” 1970.

Carson Delivers
Staley Lectures

Dr. Mary Faith Carson, chairman of
the religion department at Moravian
College in Bethlehem, Pa., delivered
the fall series of Staley Distinguished
Christian Scholar Lectures at Davidson
College on 21 and 22 September.

-Dr. Carson graduated from Salem
College and attended Union Theologi-
cal Seminary in Richmond. She com-
pleted the master’s degree at Presbyter-
ian School of Christian Education, and
received the Ph.D. from Princeton Uni-
versity.

The Staley Lecture Series.is admin-
istered by the Thomas F. Staley Foun-
dation, a private, nonprofit organization
established to administer funds to fur-
ther the evangelical witness of the
Christian Church, with a particular con-
cern for college students. The series is
in its eleventh year at Davidson Col-
lege.

Oliver Displays
Sculptures

The Davidson College Art Gallery
is opening the fall season with a display
of works by sculptor Jeanette Oliver.

Oliver, who lives in Burlington, stu-
died at the Art Students League and the
School of Visual Arts in New York. She
received her bachelor’s degree from the

University of North Carolina at Greens-
boro. Her most recent one-man show
was held earlier this year at Duke Uni-
versity West Gallery in Durham.

Oliver’s large steel pieces, which
show influence of modern masters such
as Julio Gonzzlz and Alberto Giaco-
metti, will be on display through the
month. .

The Davidson College Art Gallery
is located in Chambers Building on the
campus and is open weekdays, 10 a.m.
to5 p.m.

Belk Gets
New Look

Belk dormitory stood in shambles
two weeks before freshman orientation
began. Empty paint cans, disassembled
bed frames, and torn ceiling tiles littered
the halls. Now, after tireless work by
the dedicated staffs of the housing of-
fice, physical plant, and custodial de-
partment, some upperclassmen refer to
Belk as “a palace.”

Beginning only a week after spring
term exams, contractors completed the
bulk of Belk renovations by 4 Sep-
tember. The extra effort by both David-
son and outside workers overcame a lag
in clean-up. Today, fresh coats of paint
adorn all rooms, halls, and stairwells.
Lowered ceilings with better lighting,
windows with mini-blinds, and refin-
ished doors and handrails refine Belk’s
appearance.

New lounges and new wooden,
stained bunk-bed frames all increase
student comfort. Though not functional
until mid October, the recently installed
air conditioning and heating system
promises climate-controlled comfort.

Director of Housing Bill Bolding
says,The whole character of the build-
ing has changed. The halls are not quite

as long and dark. The whole building
looks nicer. We try to ask the students

“what they want in each dorm as it’s re-

done. Lots of people told us they wanted
bunk beds [in Belk] so we got them. Our
goal is to redo one building a year. This
year it was supposed to be Cannon, but
because of a need for air conditioning

for many summer campers, Belk was |

redone instead.”

Additional renovations or structural
changes on campus include: the demoli-
tion of the old shop building and move-
ment of the shop facility to the east end
of the football stadium; the near com-
pletion of the Black Student Coalition
house; the demolition of Lafferty House
on Main Street; minor remodeling in
Cannon Dorm; sidewalk construction
behind Sentelle; and the pavement of
the new parking lot on the west side of
Patterson Court.

Professor
White Dies

Charles A. Dana professor of Phys-
ics Dr. Locke White Jr. °39, chairman
of his department since 1978 and a
member of the faculty for twenty-one
years, died of a heart attack on 4 July.
He was 63.

The son of Presbyterian missionar-
ies, White was born in South Boston,
Va., and spent six years of his child-
hood in China. He graduated from Da-
vidson as a member of Phi Beta Kappa
and valedictorian of his class. He re-
ceived his Ph.D. in physical chemistry
from UNC-Chapel Hill.

White is survived by his wife, Anne;
three sons, Steven, Alan, and Brian;
and two daughters, Diana White and
Helen White.

Campus Job
Offers Hit Low

(CPS)—The job market for this
year’s college grads isn’t good, and it
may even be getting worse.

. That’s the prognosis offered by
placement and employment experts
around the country, who add that éven
the so-called “hot majors”—engineer-

‘ ing and computer science students—are

getting significantly fewer job offers
than their counterparts a year ago.

“The job market is definitely soften-
ing for college grads,” observes Jack
Shingleton, the placement director at
Michigan STate University who admin-
isters a yearly survey of business col-
lege recruiting plans.

“Disciplines such as social science,
arts and letters, and education are expe-
riencing the greatest underemployment.
EVen the enginerring and computer
science majors are not as well off as they
were two or three years ago.” he says.

The College Placement Council, a
trade association of campus placement
offices, reports job offers to June grads
declined for the first time in six years in
1982.

The U-S. Department of labor says
high school and college unemployment
has hit 14.4 percent, up from 13.7 per-
cent a year ago.

“The job opportunities are just not
there,” says William Heartwell Jr., ex-
ecutive vice-president of the Interstate
Conference of Employment Securities
Agencies. “Companies have had to cut
back drastically. For the first time we
are seeing college graduates working in
jobs that are trainee positions.”

Employers and placement experts
blame the recession. Hundreds of top
corporations have instituted hiring
freezes, cut back on the number of col-
lege grads they employ, and cancelled
their college recruitment programs.

College Costs
Zoom

New York (CPS)—The total cost of
going to college—including tuition,
room, board, supplies, transportation
and personal expenses—has jumped by
as much as 13 percent for some students
this fall, according to a survey by the
College Board’s College Scholarship
Service.

The survey of some 3300 colleges
predicts students at four-year public
campuses will spend an average of
$4338 to go to school this year, a 13 per-
cent increase over last year’s expenses.

Private college and university stu-
dents will spend an average of $7475 to
make it through the 1982-83 academic
year, an 11 percent hike over 1981-82,
the study found.

Soaring tuition rates are the main
reasons. Tuition is up an average of 20
percent at public colleges, and 13 per-

Continued

THE DAVIDSONIAN/September 24, 1982
