Housing For 1982-83

Tighter Than Usual

The housing situation for the 1982/83
school year will be tighter than usual,
due to the absence of fall programs
away from the college such as Beaufort
and India. According to Bill Bolding,
Director of Student Housing, there are a
few shifts in on-campus and perimeter
units, and a change in the lottery system
which will hopefully make the dwelling
transition smoother. The availability of
housing for women students also should
improve with this year’s changes.

The major changes on campus include
making Peter Knox Dorm co-ed, open-
ing First Belk East to upperclassmen,
and renovating Cannon and Watts
dorms. The decision to make Basement
Richarson into an upperclass dorm has
been reversed. It will remain open to
both freshwomen and upperclass wom-
en. The renovations in Cannon and
Watts will also necessitate the removal
of all lofts so that. repairs can be made
more easily. The entering freshman

class will apparently be someewhat
smaller than this year’s (approximately
330 students as compared to around
350).

The changes in perimeter housing in-
volve the elimination of Lafferty House
and Park Place. Park Place will become

a faculty/staff residence, but the future

of Lafferty is uncertain. There will,
however, be 7 available perimeter
houses which will hous¢ a total of 81
students. They are as follows: Grey
House, 14, Henderson House, 12, Der-
by House, 8, Harding House, 11, Mar-
tin Manor, 14, Kimmel House, 10, and
Julia Johnson House, 12.

As always, there is an.abundance of
private off-campus houses available for
those rising upperclassmen unable to se-
cure a room on campus and those who
like living in houses. Approximately
150 spaces are available at the Oak Hill
apartments, with prices comparable to
normal on-campus room fees. The

housing office is glad to provide listings
for these units, and help in whatever
way possible. Bill Bolding also encour-
ages everyone to review the Wildcat
Dens flyer which was distributed earlier
this term. Copies are available at the
Housing Office.

The housing selection procedure beg-
ins April 8, with the due date for pe-
rimeter housing rosters. April 8 and 9
will be lottery number selection dates.
Those students planning to be out of
town during these days should arrange
for a friend to draw a number for them
by writing a signed note to that effect.
All students desiring a room to live in,
either on campus or in_ perimeter
houses, must draw a number. Those
planning off-campus arrangements
should also draw.

Perimeter houses will be assigned
April 10. Room retention requests and
single room requests are due April 13.

~

The major change in this year’s proce-
dure will be that roommates simply sign
up for the room(s) they prefer on April
16. They may listas many rooms as they
desire, being as general or specific as
they wish. On April 21 room assign-
ments. will be finalized and posted. It is
hoped this convenient change in proce-
dure need not eliminate the beer-drink-
ing, Frisbee-throwing, and chaos-filled
marathon which traditionally accom-
panies room selection.

Another innovation in this year’s
procedure is an unique clustering arran-
gement, in which groups of 6, 8, or 10'
friends may request adjacent rooms. Se-
lection will be determined by the aver-
age lottery number of all the cluster par-
ticipants. This change is principally the
work of the dorm senators and Burt Tay-
lor.

Andy Wilson ’84

College Bowl Headed For Nationals

The College Bowl team last weekend
qualified for the Final Eight national
tournament to be held early this month.
The regional elimination tournament
(one of four in the country) was held on
Saturday and Sunday in Hodson Hall
and fine play was to be seen regardless
of which match one was viewing. Six
teams, UNC-Chapel Hill, Purdue, Flor-
ida, Florida St., Marshall, and David-
son, met to decide which two would ad-
vance to the final round of play. These
teams were chosen on the basis of play
in regional tournaments or radio tourna-
ments held earlier this year. Davidson
had taken the latter route to qualify for
nationals, but had not fared well in the
regionals late in February.

Davidson’s first game was against

Florida State who had beaten Purdue in
a first-round game. Though visibly ner-
vous, Davidson’s first half in this game

was perhaps their best of the entire wee-
kend and they led Florida State at half-
time by over 100 points. During the se-
cond half, however, Florida State
nibbled away at Davidson’s lead. With
a shouted answer at the buzzer, Fla.
State appeared to snatch victory away
from the ’Cats. Their answer was at first
accepted and then disallowed, leaving
Davidson with an ill-flavored win
which put them in the finals against a
confident and relaxed Chapel Hill team.

The nervousness of team members

Gordon Turnbull, captain Brad Mullis,
Marvin Overby, and John Eglin wasev- —
_en more evident Sunday morning when

they played Chapel Hill who in contrast
were boisterous and arrogant. The.con-
trasting attitudes was reflected in the
game as well, and Chapel Hill beat Da-

vidson Reng, sending the Wildcats to,

the losers’ bracket despite the loud en-
couragement of the partisan crowd.

Knowing that the winner of the losers’
bracket would advance to the national
finals, as the second qualifying team,
Davidson reappeared Sunday afternoon
keyed-up and alert. They played a
Purdue team now riding the crest of mo-
mentum after losing that. first round

game to Fla. State (whom they beat to

advance to the Finals of the losers’
bracket). Davidson defeated Purdue
despite the excellent play of that team’s
captain (later named to the tournament
all-star team),..The game was fairly
close but the outcome was never in
much doubt as Davidson was hitting on
all four cylinders. The always excellent
play of John Eglin and the especially

. strong game, of Marvin Overby (what's
a fuzzy WARY anyway?) were notable.

Davidson tightened up as they met
Chapel Hill once again to establish
“bragging rights” since both teams had
already qualified for further play. The
game was quite close at half time but
Chapel Hill, who is fast becoming Da-
vidson’s nemesis, poured it on in the se-
cond half to win easily as they beat the
Cats to the buzzer (Gordon Turnbull in
particular hitting his button time and
again just a split-second slow) through-
out the half.

. John Eglin was named to the all-tour-
nament team along with the captains of
Fla. State, Purdue, and Chapel Hill. Da-
vidson will play in the Final Eight tour-
nament the first weekend.in April at a
site yet to be announced but rumored to
be Las Vegas.

Jeff Hamilton: '82

DASABSDAJPAD jikxidayi2.A pr dQA2AC
