1 982: it is 1982, pak 6 enilion al
tions ate better than at any other time in Ameri-
y, there: is still a definite race relationship

rights. movement received s

satisfied with current integrated: but separate social

conditions. And if you haven't noticed; there is a race .

relationship problem here at Davidson College. .
Davidson flirts dangerously with self-imposed segre-
gation. Black and white students gotoclass in the same
"room and eat in the same cafeteria, yet most manage to
avoid any interaction beyond superficial chitchat. Inte-.

grated but separated, like oil and vinegar separated ina |

bottle: that hasn’t been shake. Our race relationship
problem: at Davidson: is not one. of negative interac-
tions, but one exemplified: by the lack of interaction.
Our social separation can no | nge be blamed on laws,

ie

but only on our own attitudes towards accepting ourin- -

tral but Pesci social eteiahip.

Getter ies | : |

s: Even on college ‘campuses, where the civil
, the racial gapis -
‘growing’ wider as students:and:administration rerain:

or Pmappalled
? Black: individuals. Qne Friday nighit at the Community

ed at an open BSC party this past fall. I felt like.an unin-

‘vited guest who came dressed inappropriately to a pri-

vate party. I’m sure some blacks have felt the same
way at ‘white’ parties. Blacks and whites even man-

aged to remain basically separated from each other -

when Julian Bond visited Davidson as the first Martin
Luther King Jr. Lecturer. Yet we are complacently sat-

isfied with this gap within the student body.

‘During the spring term I have worked at the David-

-son.Community Center organizing two hours of activ-

ity for forty black children. From my experiences at the
Community Center I have gained an understanding of
who I am and how I relate to a group of people who are
different from me. I have realized. how white I am.
White in the sense that I live secluded in Davidson, and
when I step out I carry what I represent. I know of little
else but my upper middle class.suburban culture. I’m

E- ~notenly: unaware of different cultural traits, butalso of .
5 the prejudices: and feelings and thoughts black people

~ “may have about.me because I’m.an unknown. white.

ae Mote ironic is my: ignorance of my own feelings and

lives, .and-my inability. to: handle my .hangups.
at how ineffectual | am in interacting: with

t I looked into a ten year old’s angry dark brown

se ' “eyes. set in a black face and I couldn’t fathom what he
ion ‘was thinking and feeling. L-returned the gaze with the
at same defiant stare and we walked away, both of us con- |
fused and uncertain. Because of my work with black

s, Khaye learned about my ignorance, fears,.

me ‘prejudices that I would have otherwise never known if

hadn’t become the minority. I’m not proud of my ig-

. noranee and prejudices, but I don’t continually blame

ae for oan.”

= cual éghegation ievideatal any pay OF Sa-
aagumiieg: Fraternities are still turning prospective
members away. because they are black. White students
are alienated and ignored at ‘open’ Black Student Coa-
‘lition parties. I myself was politely rejected-and isolat- -

- We all harbor stereotypes'and reactions to different
people and situations: When we allow these prejudices
to become roadblocks to positive, active relationships,
we need to take. time to understand those people and
our own feelings about them. We need to span our gap
of fears, ignorance, and inexperience by contacting the
unknown. My subtle conflict with the young black-on
that Friday night at the Community Center was good
for this reason. By interacting, we bridged the gap and
made contact with each other. We learned to look into
each other’s eyes and see we are both humans with
fears and feelings. The uneasiness and confusion we
felt has become an acceptance for each other as we
meet each Friday night to play basketball and argue
whether the ball was in bounds or out. Slowly we’ re ac-
cepting each other’s differences and. are more. able to
talk and play together; he in his own distinct dialect and
manner, me in mine. _And his-dark eyes set in a black
face and my blue eyes set in a white face are no longer a
roadblock to our relationship. Our uneasiness occurred
not only because of our differences but because of our

_ inexperience in dealing with people different:from our-

selves. If whites and blacks ate to break down:the wall
of uneasiness; we must interact and learn to be at ease
with our differences.

I’m happy if you don’t feely you have any prejudices

» of problems. in our: relations: with: a; different ‘racial
» group. But wonder if that’s because you've never had’

to interact closely.with them. I don’t know of any solu-
tions for our racial problem at Davidson; but I believe
Davidson students — black and white — need to wake

‘up.and question whether our current social s

is‘what..we want. Are: we ‘satisfied with our limited
knowledge of each other? Are we willing to make the

and--:effort.of being uncomfortable in cach other’s company

until we learn to be with each other naturally? Or are

we going to- resign cursclies to self-imposed segrega-
tion?

“Pete Skillem °85

