From the Locker Room

| ~ To begin with, I'd like to go back to last week’s co-

lumn and the abuse I gave most Davidson spectators. -
When I wrote that séction, I had the vague feeling that:

people would comment to me about those “other” fans,
but the. very people who commented to me would be
ths cae J Was writing about to begin wit -By and
, that intuitive feeling became fact, as most of the
pase who commented were people about whom I was
writing.
Allow me to straighten this matter out. When I wrote
of the one last group without which “I tremble to think
what the crowd would be like,” I was talking about

maybe 35 people, 45 tops. Here’s a simple test to fipd

out if you’re in the number:
1) Have you stood up for 30 minutes or more at a David-
son game?
2) Have you yelled at least 5 verbally abasive com-
ments at the ref in one game?
3) After a game which you atteneded, did the first per-
son yoou met who didn’ t go to the game ask you, “What
happened to your voice?” (Appropriate answer: “I left
it in the gym.” )
4) (Optional) Do you hate Carolina fans?

If you answered three our of four of the above ques-
tions, yes, you passed. If you answered all four yes,
you passed with flying colors. Let’s see if everyone

"Who didn’t pass can take it and pass tomorrow night in

Charlotte.

Anyway, on the locker room. Road locker rooms are
somewhat different from home locker rooms. To those
who think basketball teams travel in ultimate style,
take it from me. The style doesn’t go past the motor

coach the team rides on. At least in the Southern Con-
ference.

My ride up to Western Carolina was quite interest-
ing. I rode up with Equipment Manager John Byrd and
Wildcat Club assistant Mike Moore. In a conversation

that ranged from college drinking stories to Big 10

football, I ance a few things about Davidson basket-

ball.

Davidson ticket sales have naturally gone down
across the years, but Mike is expecting an improve-
ment next year. Practically no one wanted tickets this
year, especially since we lost our three top scorers.
“This year all we had to sell was a new coach,” he said.
But hopefully after this year’s shocking record he fig-
ures we'll do better next year.

Last weekend Charlotte hosted Chapel Hill, N.C.
State, Furman, and thie Citadel in the North-South (Ca-
rolinas) Classic. Why would 1 1 ,000 people pay a lot of
money to watch the Tar Heels blow the Paladins off the
court in a display of basketball:that would make James
Naismith cry? Mike contends that North Carolinians
are not basketball fans, but rather Tar Heel fans. The
Davidson-UNCC game on the 21st will be good, solid
basketball, an exciting game. But maybe 4,000 people
(mostly UNCC fans, mind you) will pay to see an ex-
citing game, whereas 11,000 paid to see a blowout. In
a basketball-crazy state like Indiana, it’d be the other
way around.

When we got to Western Carolina we walked into a
locker room that smelled as if someone had poked in it
15 minutes before. The team got dressed, warmed up,
and came back in for its pregame ritual. Coach Hussey

outline defensive matchups and key stats for opposing
players and discussed the game plan. .

By halftime it was obvious that the team wasn’t real-
ly following the game plan, and to tell the truth, they
were lucky to be down by only nine. In the second half,
any disorganization became complete as the Cata-
mounts routed the Wildcats in an embarassing loss.

Coach Hussey didn’t get down onthe team, though.
He’s been gearing them for the tournament from the
start, and tourney time is nigh. With that thought I
picked my way through the shattered hopes and egos
on the locker room floor and came up with a bit of en-
couragement. Of the top four teams other than us,
we’ve split with three and lost twice to UT-C. It’s a
well known truism that it’s tough to beat a team three
times in a season, so the only team we have to worry
about is App State, and possibly Furman. We won’t
meet either of those two until the finals, and if we win
the quarterfinal game we’ll meet UT-C in the semifi-
nals and the odds will be in our favor. After all, we
proved we can play with the Mocs.

I rode back to. Davidson on the teams bus, in an at-
mosphere quite unlike that after the App State win.

-Jamie Hall didn’t say a word for an hour, I don’t think.

Frustration — Coach Hussey had used the word earlier
— was written all over Jamie’s boyish face. Four
year’s worth. But with a little luck and a lot of fan sup-
port, that preseason goal of a tournament champion-
ship is very. real.

by Steve Soud

The Hair Cottage

Creative hair a
for men and women

owner/stylist: Jane Schenck

1757E. Rocky River

Rd.
| 892-5107 by appoint-
L ment only

| WOMEN
YOU NAME IT — WE'LL .
STYLE IT

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP |

| __ MAIN. STREET

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982

23
