A Philosophic Appraisal of the

Conservative Camp

Initially I would take this opportunity to agree with —

the penetrating, realistic thought of Bill Bargmanh

whose sagacious defense of free market capitalism of a,
week ago sets a “conservative” precedent which is in- |

deed difficult to follow. Nevertheless, in the wake of
Steve Soud’s piece regarding the New Right, an intel-
lectual appraisal of the “conservative” camp seems in
order.

Any concise characterization of America conserva-
tive thought is enigmatic at best and totally confusing
at worst; one cannot synthesize or categorize conserva-
tism as a political movement in anything less than a
complete disseration. The movement by its very nature
is ‘fraught with paradoxes, conntradictions, general
ambiguity and most importantly division. For exam-
ple, the nature of the “conservative” label itself pres-
ents problems in the American context. The term con-
notes an emphasis of tradition and the past, but where
should the conservation look in United States history
for a viable heritage? To. generalize, the basic flow of
U.S. history evolves in a liberal direction with refer-
ence to the trend toward increased popular participa-
tion and historical events such as the.Revolution or the
framing of the Declaration of Independence. John Dig-
gins, author of Up From Communism, comments,
“Knowledge of the American past, however, is pre-
cisely the paradox of American conservatism.” (An al-
ternative emphasis would be individual statesmen or
Europeans such as Edmund Burke, but there is no con-
sensus regarding statesmen and Burkean thought can
hardly be forced on the American context.)

Or, consider the fact that 20th Century conservatism
is essentially 19th Century “classic liberalism” with its
emphasis of free markets, individualism, private prop-
erty, limited government and self-reliance. Another
paradox. ‘surfaces when oné.notices that many notable
post- -World War II conservatives were of a leftist pos-
ture earlier i in their careers. Several former left-wingers
have even found a journalistic home at William F.
Buckley,’ ‘Jr.’s National Review. Examples include:
former Comimunist Whittaker Chambers who wrote
Confessions of. a Middle Class Radical, former Young
_ Communist’ League member Frank ‘Meyer who has
served as literary editor for Buckley’s journal, and re-
pentant Trotskyite James Burnham who is a regular co-
lumnist for the National Review.

The upshot of this verbose introduction is that the
nature of American conservative thought is problemat-
ic and somewhat difficult to grasp. More importantly
however, I would like to consider the principal div-
isions ‘Within the conservative camp and point out that
one can hardly place any and all conservatives beneath
an anti-intellectual, fundamentalist, dogmatic label.

Neo-conservatives or those of the New Right are but
one of three major divisions within American conser-
vatism and hardly represent a hemogeneous political

movement. Far right extremists and libertarian conser-
vatives form the balance of the American Right. For
some odd reason, extremists, e.g. The John Birch So-
ciety, and neo-conservatives are representative of con-
servatism in the public eye, to the exclusion of libertar-
ian conservatives who proceed from a more intellectual
base.

Libertarian conservatives emerged as a flame of lais-
sez-faire individualism in the post-World War II peri-
od. George Nash terms this period the “Revolt of the
Libertarians,” with reference to the fact that 19th-Cen-
tury “classic liberalism” was revitalized by libertarian
thinkers: Libertarian conservatives directly opposed
and oppose the welfare state measures of the New Deal
period and the continuing trend toward collectivization
at the hands of a federal bureaucracy. Buckley ob-
viously recognized this trend when he founded the Na-
tional Review in 1955. He stated in his opening editor-
ial that “The National Review stands athwart of history,
yelling stop, at a time when no one is inclined to do so,
or to have much patience with those who so urge it.”

An emphasis of individual freedom, anti-collectivism
‘and/or anti-statism distinquishes*libertarian thinkers

from neo-conservatives and extremists, in addition to
the fact that libertarians do not stress the importance of
a conservation tradition or heritage in the vein of Rus-
sel Kirk and many neo-conservatives.

Paradoxically, libertarians gained their principal i im-
petus, if not heritage, from Europeans. Academics
such as Henry Simons and Frank Knight of the Univer-
sity of Chicago School of Economics and journalists
such as Henry Hazlitt, John Chamberlain, Garet Gar-
rett, Frank Chodoror and later Bu::cley, John DosPas-
sos, James Burnham and Max Eastman were sparked
by the work of two Austrians, Friedrick Hayek and
Ludwig von Mises. Both upheld the principles of
“classic liberalism,” and it was the work of Hayek and
von Mises which fueled American libertarian conser-
vatism after World War II. : .

In 1944 Hayek published The Road to Serfdom in
which he discussed the alarming international trend to-
ward government planning of the economic and the
consequences of such planning for individual liberty.
Hayek’s principal thesis centers on his belief that
“Planning leads to dictatorship” and that the direction
of economic activity inevitably leads to “suppression
of freedom”. He proposed individualism and/or “class-
ic liberalism” as an alternative to such statism in the
economic sphere. von Mises’ most important works,
Omnipotent Government and Bureaucracy and Human
Action, were published.in 1944 and.1949 respectively
and were more extreme than Hayek’s work. von Mises
adopted a stance totally devoted to laissez-faire captial-

ism. For von Mises the alternatives for government |
were simple, capitalism or statism or capitalism or »
“chaos, and'Human Action has often been termed the

“Captalist Manifesto”.

Primarily the work of Hayek and von Mises, in addi-

tion to individual reflection on New Deal policies and
the Socialist/Communist examples of the world scene,
reawakened “classic liberalism” or libertarian conser-
vation in the U.S. Intially libertarian conservatives
represented little more than a scattered lot of journal-
ists, economists and educators with some philosophi-
cal unity centering on a profound distaste for frowing
statism and a desire to safeguard individual liberty and
laissez-faire capitalism. Libertarian conservatives
were, however, in a postion to channel their ideologi-
cal position(s). through the media and therefore able to
achieve more than simply the status of a meaningless
intellectual flank of conservatism.
_ While libertarians stress laissez-faire individualism,
neo-conservatives emphasize first and foremost the
values of orthodox Christianity. Neo-conservatives are
most concerned about the ethical and spiritaul values of
society and accent the importance of tradition, e.g.
Russell Kirk. The prinicpal issue dividing the New
Right and libertarian conservation relates to the state
and intervetion. Libertarians remain opposed to sta-
tism in any sphere, particularly that of economics,
whereas neo-conservtives are not philosophically op-
posed to state intervention, provided such action is
vented in an appropriate direction in terms of ethical/
moral considerations. The extreme Right can be char-
acterized by mentioning three principles or stances
which are inherent to the philosophy of the far Right;
that is, such conservatives proceed from an (1) anti-
communist, (2) anti-intellectual, and (3) evangelized
fundamentalist perspective.

Having briefly discussed libertarian conservation
and highlighted neo-conservatism and the far Right,
one might comment, “so what, what is the crux of your
conservative verbosity?” Simply stated liberals cannot
brand each every individual to the ideological Right as
non-thing, dogmatic fundamentalists as previous arti-
cles in the Davidsonian have stated (and on the Left!)
who seem indoctrinated to a certain point of view, so
much so that they couldn’ t be expected to explain or in-
tellectually defend their views and values any more
than a well-read observer could be expectéd to mistake.
Cauley’s Davidsonian for Buckley’s National Review.
But, one must not confuse persons who have consi-
dered examples on the international and domestic
fronts and examined well-informed sources in forming
a socio-political point of view with such mindless ideo-
logues!

Van Beck ’82

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982

19
