End of an Era —

Davidson S

gIs History Too

‘Little Cold Cash and Too Much Hot Water

The swimming team— Davison’s best kept 12-2: ‘ap
secret--is no more. They vor last December to dis-.

sove the team.
The problem boiled down to something scarce in

the Athletic Department— money. Money for wining.

and money for a new pool.

Across the past three seasons V Wildcat swimmers —
accumulated a 32-11 record. None of those was held at

‘Davidson. “Home” meets were held at UNCC, site of
the nearest Southern Conference regulation-sized

"At the beginning of the season the Athletic admin- if
istration informed Coach Pat Miller, in her eighth year

as coach, there would be no team next season. The
swimmers were willing to continue and were actually

fired up for their one final season. But the camel’s back

broke when the Department cut off funds for the team’s
Christmas break training trip. That training trip; which
cost approximately $350 per swimmer, was the back-
bone of the program. The six. hours a day of intense
practice were the foundation of the season. The trip
“gets us on a level with the people we’re competing
_against,” according to Co-captain Mike Schremmer, a
four year veteran of the program.
On Wednesday, December 9, several of the team
members met to discuss the rapidly-growing discon-

tent with the new decision. Coach.Miller didn’t attend

because “she didn’t want to bias it,”according to
Schremmer.

The team voted to dissolve, and took their proposal
to Acting Athletic Director Ed Farrell. Farrell was un-
derstanding. Schremmer summarized the meeting ,““He
said we spend too much, but that’s still not enough.”

The team had a long list of well-justified grievan-
ces. Most concerned the inadequate Davidson facility.
The 31-year old pool area had little ventilation, and its
filtering system was far from adequate. Rust had fallen
into the pool and accumulated on the floor, and water
temperature was a constant problem. To worsen mat-
ters, there was no diving board..

At UNCC water temperature was the problem as

well. Regulations declare meet temperature from 79°

degrees F to 81 degrees F, and UNCC generally kept

_ water temperature around 85 degrees F. At meet'time |

the water often didn’t meet specifications, and several

teams were threatening to cause Davidson to forfeit if’ —

the temperature were too high. UNCC was losing mo-
ney as well with the swim meets at peak weekend times
and classes begging for pool space.

Lack of a diving board caused problems as well:
The diver had to travel each day to UNCC for practice.

This season the team was without a diver, and that me- |
ant an automatic forfeiture of sixteen points to oppo-'

nents.
The team batted around the idea of all away meets,
but that,too, was not economically feasible: An away

meet Costs a team approximately $1200, and there was an

no money: for that.

The senior class, which holds thirteen of nineteen ;

‘school records, has felt the administration “nonsuppor-

tive” ‘all along. Co-captain Rick Williams regretted
that “No matter how hard we work here we're being

held back.

The ubiquitous weight room problem surfaiied a
among the swimmers as well. ‘They weren't allowed to’

use it. Schremmer explained,. “They didn’t really un-
derstand that it is an important part of training.”
The team didn’t get the necessary monies as well.

require a great deal of money. Five of the Early Deci-

sion acceptances were swimmers gotten on the al-
ready-scant funds. Sophomore Bill Crone said, “We
can get people here. We don’t need scholarships, we

~ need anew facility. °

This year’s team consisted of Coach Miller and As-
sistant Coach Mark Hammond, Co-captains Schrem-
mer and Williams, seniors Craig Allen, Craig Fingers,
and Tony Smith; junior Johnny Edwards; sophomores

'. Bill Crone and-Roy Martin; and freshmen Bob Mosca,

Martin Valbuena, and Mike Washburn. .
They were a team hounded by one inadequacy after

Davidson
College

1980-81

Swimming

The team would pay’to print brochures but would have :

no ay to.cover mailing costs: The program didn’t’

_ DAVIDSONIAN’/ Friday 8 January 1982

another; and yet willing to keep pushing on through
hardship until the burden broke their spirit. Schremmer
pointed out, “It’s not that we didn’t wanna do the work.
We were training for twice a day for four hours up until
we made the decision.”

Although the tream was certainly hurt about the de-
cisiobn, they don’t think the Athletic administration
was out to scuttle their program alone. They see it asa
department-wide epidemic.

The Davidson swimming program, once a source
of pride for so many, for those same people has ‘become

a harbor of regret.

15
