From the Locker Room

The heart of the South’s football love affair

By STEVE SOUD ’84

‘In the South, autumn is football.

The leaves here do not turn red and yellow, but
crimson and gold. The autumn wind whispers football
down the magnolia-lined paths as its cool breaths send
the sun, sighing at its loss, sinking southward.

Here, football is an institution. Here, children are
brought up on “Roll Tide” and “How ’bout them
Dawgs!” In the South are football’s two winningest
coaches. Here, a football game is not an athletic event,
but a social event. At Vanderbilt, alumni come in cock-
tail-party attire, well equipped with the cocktails. In
Athens a person without a ticket is a veritable social
outcast.

Football is the September South.

A stranger might chance to drive into a sleepy
Southern town one Saturday morning and experience
what is at the heart of the South’s football love affair.
Hearing an ecstatic crowd, he is lured to a stadium. As
he nears the stadium, a roar from the crowd whets his
interest and he hurries to the gate. Taking a glance eith-
er way, he walks in the gate and it confronts him.
There, before his very eyes, is the heart and soul of the
South—Pee Wee football.

This is where it all begins. Hersche! Walker got his
Start in a league like this, and at this very moment the
next Herschel may be making his start.

And sure enough, he is . . . the Deacon halfback is
bolting full speed right. He beats the pursuit, turns on
the juice, and hurtles into the end zone! TD!

Hold it, why’s the referee back on the 18-yard line
waving his arm to stop the clock?!? Herschel is going
to have to try again. Six seconds left, and Herschel’s
Deacs are down to those blasted Tar Heels (“Are those
Heels rigging the game again?” a perplexed father

asks) 12-13. Herschel goes back to the huddle and gets
the nod-sweep left.

He takes the handoff and hits the corner like a
steam engine, blows by the linebacker and races into
the end zone. TD!

Hold it. Not again!? “Oh well,” Herschel figures.
”] played well, and there’s nothing at stake.”

The Deacons jubilantly line up to shake hands, glad
not for the loss but for the moment, the chance to play.
They file off the field, give a quick acknowledgment of
the presence of mom and dad, and take off on a carefree
victory lap around the track. There’d be another game
next week.

The stranger, startled, exclaims to himself, “But
the Deacons lost!” Then he realizes they didn’t really
lose—they didn’t have anything to lose. He takes a
seat.

The next game in this action-packed pee wee dou-
bleheader pits the Blue Devils against the Wolfpack.
The Pack wins the toss and elects to keep the football.
There’s no kickoff, though. They get the ball on their
own 40-yard line, and the six-minute quarter begins
with the snap.

The Pack’s offensive line is huge—the center actu-
ally comes up to the coach’s neck. They run all their
plays up the middle.

The beauty, the stranger notes, is the simplicity.
Each team has a coach on the field. On offense the
coach calls the plays in the huddle—odd left, even
right, and so on. On defense the coach positions the
players where he wants them. It often involves a push
or two in the right direction.

The offense is simple—there’s no passing, punt-
ing, or trap blocking. On defense the job is to drag the
man down—no fancy high-low tackling for these guys.

The Blue Devils shut down the Pack offense, and
as the red team came off field, a young girl jumped to

her feet and yelled, “Way to go, Keh-yah-nee!” Ken-
ny, it turns out, is going to have to play both ways-
—sign of a sure talent. He races back to the defensive
huddle and readies for the big play.

The Blue Devils run off-center left and make a big
gain. A Pack member slips and the running back sees
nothing between him and the goal line. Kenny puts ona
valiant chase but is losing ground when clonk! all the
sudden he’s down! A clip!

When Kenny doesn’t get up, the girl with the drawl
and her parents, presumably Kenny’s family, stand up,
worried that a budding career may be over. “Just got
the wind knocked out of him,” a reassuring friend says.
Fighting back the unmanly tears, the young boy walks
safely back to the bench and his teammates. Kenny sat
down with the knowledge that one way or another he
had saved a touchdown.

The Pack defense solidified, and the Blue Devils
wound up with fourth and 25. They set in their offen-
sive formation. Hut one, hut two, hike! Sweep left. . .
no! A reverse! What a call on fourth and 25! The runner
cuts up the middle, his churning feet travailing across
the yards until at last he’s brought down. A twelve-
yard gain, but not enough.

The stranger, satisfied that he has discovered foot-
ball in its quintessential form, gets up and makes his
way out. Before he can leave, he must congratulate
Kenny on a fine performance. Kenny smiles through
the watery eyes and over the cup of Gatorade, and the
stranger walks on.

This is Davidson, North Carolina on a quiet Satur-
day morning pierced only by the parents’ cheers. This
is as much the home of Southern football as any town in
Dixie.

Soud is Sports Editor of The Davidsonian.

COLLEGE POETRY REVIEW

The NATIONAL POETRY PRESS

announces

MIDNIGHT MADNESS

The closing date for the submission of manuscripts by College Students is

November 5

ANY STUDENT attending either junior or senior college is eligible to submit
his verse. There is no limitation as to form or theme. Shorter works are pre-

ferred because of space limitations.

Each poem must be TYPED or PRINTED on a separate sheet, and must
bear the NAME and HOME ADDRESS of the student, and the COLLEGE

ADDRESS as well.

MANUSCRIPTS should be sent to the OFFICE OF THE PRESS.
NATIONAL POETRY PRESS

Box 218

Agoura, Ca. 91301 |

Is Coming !

Watch for

more details...

18

THE DAVIDSONIAN/1 October 1982
