America’s Voice in Poland -

I conducted a telephone interview last week with Dr.
Sandor Kiss, head of the Hungarian division of voice of
America, an official radio service of the United States
government which broadcasts to Eastern Europe and

My
“lly

“Uy

My Y, Yy
Yy Y
“Ulyyy, \

ZZ “ty,

Wty, Wy
“Uy
try

Ws
“ley,

Wty ge
WC

Yj
‘Ys

:
g
y

rope, especially in Poland, about Europe’s and the

. ,
the Soviet Union. Dr. Kiss, a leader in the 1956 Hun- y . You. CANT PULL.
garian revolt, was imprisoned for his political beliefs, | “my
but-escaped to the US with his family. I quested Dr. \| ar ay
Kiss about VOA’s influence and role in Eastern Eu- ‘\ te 4

US’s responses to the Polish crisis, and about his pre-
dictions concerning future dissidence in Poland and
other Soviet Block countries. He emphasized that he
could speak as a private citizen, but not as a represen-
tative of VOA.

During the Polish crisis, VOA increased its broad-
cast time from two and one half to seven and a half

hours daily. Dr..Kiss emphasized the importance of -

these broadcasts which give the Poles information not
available from the Polish press, such as the position of
the Catholic Church and Western opinions about the
imposition of martial law. The Poles, he said, want to
know the US viewpoint. They give VOA more credi-
bility than Radio Free Europe, which broadcasts from
Western Europe, because it is the official broadcasting
organization of the US. Poles and other Eastern Euro-
peans according to Dr. Kiss, look to the US as the lead-
er of the Western world.

The Soviet Union, as early as the Afghanistan inva-
sion, attempted to jam these. broadcasts, and has con-
tinued to do so. This is in direct violation of the Helsin-

ki accords, an agreement made in August 1975 among .

thirty-two European nations, Canada, the US, and the
Vatican, Dr. Kiss said. In these accords Comunist
countries agreed to allow a freer flow of information
between the East and West and more freedom for their
Soviet jamming. of radio broadcasts, three times as
expensive as the broadcast itself, is not completly ef-
fective. VOA uses five or six different shortwave fre-
quencies, all of which cannot be blocked at one time.
Dr. Kiss said any successful jamming seems not to
have affected the Poles’ strong spirit.
He thinks Reagan’s economic sanctions against the
_ USSR were appropriate, but said the US should apply
more forceful and extensive sanctions, such as a com-
plete grain embargo against the Soviets and the Polish
- government. He emphasized that the cooperation of
the Free World is vitally: important to the effectiveness
’ of any US action. The West, he said, should make the
_ Soviets aware that the present situation in Poland is un-
acceptable and that continuing to enforce martial law
will exact a heavy economic price. He added that the
Soviets will understand the position of the West only if
it unites and that the Soviets will compromise with So-
lidarity only under Western economic pressure.

Western Europe, according to Dr. Kiss, has not been
effective in dealing with the crackdown in Poland. Its
response was not strong enough and too late. He be-

- lieves it is definitely vital to the future of Western Eu-

rope for the free world to condemn this blatant viola-
tion of human rights and freedoms..

Dr. Kiss also commented on the peace movement in
Western Europe which, he said, has subsided some-
what since the military takeover..One should not, he
emphasized, exaggerate the sentiment of neutrality
among the Europeans. The majority of the European
population does not support neutrality. Many of the
Communist parties in Western Europe have openly
condemned the imposition of martial law, he added. —

Dr. Kiss believes that open dissidence in Eastern
Europe may subside for a short time but will resume
again with an increased hatred of Soviet policies. An
underground resistance movement, he said, already
exists in Poland. The revolutionaries are printing
newspapers and making statements to Western news-
papers. They are willing to compromise, but not with-
out conditions. He sees the situation in Poland as only a
temporary setback for Solidarity. The Poles, he said,
will never accept the conditions which existed before
August 1980, when Solidarity challenged the governe-

_ ment by forming an independent trade union. The Pol-

ish people have the opportunity to develop a freer sys-

\

aay ty ; i
{i ‘\ i
j

af |
cy |

wi |

C

UM Udipesres. 7 at Es ore Or

J ;

College Press S.2rvice

tem, but can do so only with support from the West.

Dr. Kiss commented as well on the economic and
political ineffectiveness of the Communist system.
The economic reforms in Hungary, he said, are func-
tioning well because of the adoption of Western man-
agement and know-how. He sees the Polish situation as
a fight between the Free World and the outmoded, but
militarily organized, Communist system.

The idea Dr. Kiss emphasized most strongly was
that the alliance of the West is the only way to stop So-
viet oppression and aggression. The future of the
world, he said, depends on the devotion of today’s
youth and the next generation to democracy. There is
no perfect system, but there is no comparison between
democracy and totalitarianism. Because the people of
the Western world have not experienced the oppression
that exists in Communist societies, he concluded, they
undervalue democracy and underestimate the negative
results of totalitarianism.

Dr. Kiss has lived under totalitarianism and has felt
the oppression of such a system. Perhaps those of us in
the West who try to ignore. the goals and ideology to
Communism should listen to those who have actually
ived under its iron hand. Perhaps we should think a lit-
tle more often about the freedom we have, what it

means to our lives, and what it is worth.

Julie Cheek °84

18

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982
