Commons and Court Co- -oper ate

The SGA Food Committee. has ne-

February, and continues throught the
. rest of the school year, provides for de-

livery of Sealtest dairy products to Pat-

terson Court houses. “If it succeeds, the .

program may expand other areas of food
purchasing,” Food Service Director Ca-
rleton Pritchard said.

So far this year the Commons and the

Court; have. been, at best, indifferent to
each other The new agreement may
change. this. situation... Lentz. Ivey,
Chairman of the SGA. Food Committee,

views the agreement as “an opportunity
for the Court and the Commons to en-

gage hy a working reutlotship to cut
food costs.”

Ivey estimates that the new
agreement. will allow the Patterson
Court Houses to reduce their dairy bills

- by 10-25%.. Currently the houses buy

milk every week at a cost of $2.65 per
gallon: The -new Sealtest . contract,
which takes advantage of bulk buying,
lowers the cost to $1.86 per gallon.
"Although the houses are not required
to join the new. agreement, Ivey feels
that “it would be beneficial if all court

members participated, to have everyone .

at least give it a try.” Most of the houses
have indicated that they will try the new

program.
ATO President Ralph Lasley likes the
agreement because “it will save us a lot

of ‘money and; it Spindle. 16 oshe

. foods it will be even better.” KA Presi-

dent Eric Crum, favors the agreement
but. admits that “it’s not going to do

much for us, since we don’t drink much -

-) The.SGA food committee discussed
plans for a food cooperative earlier this
year. On 16 December 1981.the com-

mittee met with the presidents, treasur-

ers and cooks from Patterson Court;
Business Manager:Bob Currie, and Prit-

. chard. The group agreed to pursue the

food co-op but recognized difficulties in
billing and milk delivery.

The group met again on 18 January.
They. decided: that. Pritchard’s. staff
would handle the billing, that this arran-
gement would be the trial run for the

system, and that Sealtest would deliver
the products toeach house. Pritchard al-
so distributed contracts and:asked for a
letter of intent by. 1 February.

. Even though’ the .new arrangement
will not benefit the commons, Pritchard
favors it because he wants to cooperate
with the houses.,.“‘I think: we, ought to
work together,” said Pritchard. “I don’t
feel we should compete with them [the
houses], and we are making every effort.
not to compete.” He has offered to con-
duct a workshop that will show. Patter-
son Court members how to make long-
range cost-effective food accounting.

by David Resnik ’85

Seay, wes ; 7
- “i We | EE E

on February 1 10, ain aeewlons the

minds of many upperclassmen concerns -

the impact that the Commons will have
on membership: in the Patterson ‘Court
eating houses.: A Davidsonian survey

cone weet tel Oak 25% 06
d said they planned to

remain reams ate ‘Commons next year.

women, at mealtimes in the Commons. _
This is approximately.a 15% sample. It -
«was not a strictly scientific poll, but the

results are likely to be'significant.’

The survey showed that 28% of the

freshman men. intended: to stay. at the

“Commons and 21%, of the freshman
women planined to stay. Twelve percent -

weren’t sure.

ian Eating Poll

‘lishment of a new all-women’s eating .
house, there was.a notable difference in.
. While ‘78% of male students expressed
their approval, only 37% of women

agreed: Also, 32% of the women ex-
pressed an interest in eating in a new all-
woman's eatinghouse.

Several: freshmen said they :were

coming decision.

Self-selection was instituted follow-

. ing Davidson's conversion to co-educa-

tion in 1971. at that time, the fraternity
bid system was eliminated, Sig Ep and
Fiji moved off campus, ATO lost its na-
tional charter and admitted women, and

Kappa Sigma became. Fannie & Ma-
-ble’s.

The poll was conducted by inter- "When students were asked to ex- still not quite sure they understand self-
‘ viewing 51: freshmen, 32 men and 19 press an opinion on the possible estab- . selection and are apprehensive about the By Jeb Benedict *84 with David Fann:
hardt °84
Male Female Total
Yes No ‘ NS Yes No. Yes No -—S'NSS
No./% No/% No/% No/% — Nol% No./%
1)Do you ned ay athe Common 9/28 20/63 3/9 421 123 —Ss(3/16 1325 «= -3263—s«/.
rte establishment ofa. 25/8 4/13 9147 3/16 32163 ,
s house? ie ae ee os |
3)Would you conse joining the house iii | 316, 10/51 6/32 TT | |
if it is Mie : ES Gk ROM ASS tan 6 i SN as ey

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday. 29 January 1982
