English Composition. The Press published the Mec-
_ klenburg Gazette from 1977. through 1979. Priscilla

Hogan, a native of Charleston and graduate of Win-’

throp College, is “the boss” of the shop, however, ac-
cording to Professor Hogan.

The idea of printing first impressed itself upon
Moreland Hogan through his’ grandfather’s own busi-
ness which involved the printing process to some de-
gree. Professor Hogan prides himslf in producing at-
tractive and enduring books, in creating something of
value. In the process he renders a service both to the
reader and book collector and to the local author for
whose work widespread circulation is not yet feasible
nor, perhaps, desireable. Hogan realizes that a small
business such as his is not likely to amass a fortune, yet
he finds it particularly lucrative in means other than lu-
cre. Perhaps Davidsonians, whatever their level of ed-
ucation, should consider more seriously their options
to employment within large corporations. Opportuni-

ties to-enrich the community while making a living do
exist;-one merely has to create them as Moreland Ho-
gan has-done with Briarpatch Press. Creative thinking,
by the way, is a basic aim of a liberal arts education
which many of us conveniently ignore for its supposed
lack of financial security. ..perhaps.

by Linda Hulburt

ORIGINAL

HEIDELBERG
EINFARBEN

OFFSET ooer :
BUCHDRUCK S&S

40:87em 15%°122%:

series Na

Welcome freshmen,
upperclassmen

Natural Foods e Cheeses e Wines e imported Beers
Coffees e Teas e ‘Gourmet Kitchen Items

eesouncess

128 S. Main St.e P.O Box 807 Davidson, NC 28036 © 704’892-7521

Takeout sandwiches
on homemade pita bread!

Continued from page |

any more explanation from the adminis-
traion than there is now. Secondly, be-
cause members of the Committee are
bound to confidentiality, they cannot be
held accountable for their decisions.
Lastly, he feels that recommendations
are best made within the departments
concerned, as is done now, because pro-
fessors are most knowledgable in their
own field. He finds it ironic that a candi-

date’s departmental colleagues would

be excluded from the Committee.

Dr. Abbott said he felt that the pro-
cess would be fairer and more demo-
cratic if the decisions were made by
more people. He said, “I feel that deci-
sions of this kind should not be made by
the President and the Vice-president
alone but with the help of the faculty as
well.”

Dr. Stell also felt that the proposal
would make the decision process more

fair. He said, “There may have been an
appearance of unfairness in the past, but
as to whether the decisions were unfair
or not is hard to say.” Having a faculty
committee would make it clearer, at
least from a faculty standpoint, who is
making the decision, he said.

Another concern of Dr. Holland is
that “confidentiality on such a commit-
tee can’t be kept airtight at a small
school like Davidson. It is impossible to
expect that there will be no leaks.”

History Professor David Shi, who
supported the proposal three years ago,
also voiced concern about the problem
of confidentiality in a small school. He
said that members of the Committee
would be well-known and in a small
school where faculty members come in
contact with each other all the time it
could cause problems. However, he al-
so said that he supports the measure

“theoretically and ideally” and he feels

ADVERTISMENTS YOU READ EACH
WEEK IN THE DAVIDSONIAN MEET
OUR STANDARDS FOR FAIR
AND ETHICAL PRESEN-

| TATION OF QUALITY

| PRODUCTS AND

” SERVICES.

SUPPORT
YOUR
ADVERTISERS.

TELL THEM YOU SAW THEIR AD IN THE DAVIDSONIAN.

that as the Committee becomes the stan-
dard rather than the exception, the
changes would come about slowly and
deliberately. Dr. Stell took a similar
view, saying that such problems are in-
escapable and, indeed are already the
case because people already know how
the department head and other members
of the faculty feel about them.

Dr. Holland disagrees. He feels that
the committee will cause a judgemental
atmosphere among the faculty, because
old members will have to be constantly
judging new ones. He grants that judge-
ments are necessary, but he feels that
this is better handled in the departments.
“The Committee”, he said, “will change
the relationship between members of
the faculty. Honest openness is liable to
suffer, and the atmosphere gets very
political.” Dr. Stell does not foresee
this. “The people who are opposed [to
the Committee] think that bad things
will happen because of it and there is no
evidence that this will be the case.

In any case, though, Dr. Holland
points out that the final tenure decisions
ar always “a gray area. There is no right
or wrong. It’s always a judgement call.”

- Jeffrey Holland ‘84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 12 February 1982 47
