Lafayette Rolls Over Davidson

BY SCOTT HUIE ’85

Same script, Same roles. Same out-
come. Just a different opponent. Pound-
ing out 484 yards in total offense and
racking up 28 third quarter points, the
Leopards of Lafayette (Pa.) rolled to a
49-14 win over Davidson last Saturday.

“We were just flat,” said Coach Ed
Farrell. “And it’s hard to understand
since we had a super week of practice,
our attitude and confidence seemed up
especially after a respectable showing
against S.C. State, and even the flight
up was smooth. We started out fine,
moving the ball well. But then their of-
fense just took the wind out of our
sails.”

Considering the margin of defeat, the
Wildcat offense was not exactly slug-
gish, either, gaining 293 yards. But
poor punt coverage, bad field position,
an interception, and two costly fumbles
drained the Wildcat arsenal.

“Since they have such a powerful of-
fense,” Farrell said, “Our game plan
was ball control. We were successful to

some extent, but they built up such a
huge lead that we had to resort to other
strategies.”

Whatever they were, they did not
work. Davidson stayed close in the ear-
ly going, falling behind by only a touch-
down in the first quarter. The Leopards,
however, racked up two more scores be-
fore intermission, one on a 29-yard
drive set up by a Keith Martin fumble,
and the other on a 33-yard drive.

Then the blitzkrieg struck. On drives
of 72, 39, and 60 yards, and on a punt
return of 58 yards, the Leopards scored
on their first four possessions of the
third quarter to put the Cats away.

Lafayette’s quarterback, who leads
the NCAA Division I-AA in passing,
connected on 12 of 25 strikes for 173
yards. The bulk of the damage, howev-
er, came on the ground where ‘he Leo-
pards netted 345 yards.

The Wildcats rallied enough to put to-
gether two touchdown drives in the
waning minutes. Late in the third quar-
ter, Davidson drove 80 yards for the
score. Halfback Leonard Walker took a

handoff from midfield and busted
downfield 49 yards to the Lafayette one.
Two plays later Martin plunged over on
a sneak.

And finally, in the fourth quarter, a
Kevin Hutchinson fumble recovery set
up a 27-yard TD drive, capped by a one-
yard scoring run by halfback David
Turner as the clock expired.

Martin completed 7 of 14 passes, four
of which found a mammoth tight end,
Scotty Brendle. Walker, Turner, and
fullback Bob Miller each rushed 11
times, with Walker picking up 88 yards.
On defense, senior Chuck Lifford
played like a man possessed with seven
solo tackles and three assists.

Lost to injury for the remainder of the
season is halfback Carl Tolbert, whose
superb blocking will be sorely missed.
His replacement, however, sophomore
David Turner, boasts great speed and
pass catching skills, which will add a
new dimension to the offense.

Said Farrell, “This was our most dis-
appointing loss to date. Ever since the
beginning of the season, the team and

the coaches have set a goal to improve
with each game. Well this is the first
game where we actually digressed.”

The Cats cannot afford to digress fur-
ther, as tomorrow they travel to Furman
to tackle the all-too-powerful Paladins
(5-2), who two weeks ago defeated the
University of South Carolina at South
Carolina. Last year, they brought their
act to Davidson and came away victor-
ious.

Furman features an explosive running
attack, keyed by 61” 195 Ib. Stanford
Jennings, who Farrell calls a “sprinting
bull.” Listen to Farrell rave even more:
“They are without a doubt the best team
on our schedule. They have all the qual-
ities that make up a winning football
program — talent, execution, and emo-
tion. It will be tough. But if Furman can
beat South Carolina, by golly, David-
son can beat Furman.”

Huie’s Prediction:
Furman 37 — Davidson 7

Cross-country Places

BY GARRY SULLIVAN ’83

Last week, the running Wildcats
travelled to Atlanta to participate in the
Georgia State Invitational meet. The
race was held on the grounds of the
Georgia Regional Hospital, partly be-
cause of the fine course and partly for
obvious precautionary reasons. The boy
harriers bounded over the grassy course
and into a respectable fifth place team
finish.

Frank Ivey once again raced superbly,
coasting into fifth place with a time of
26:08 for the hilly five-mile route.

Bryan Zielinski, the Kierkegaard of

cross-country, trailed the speeding Ivey
by two minutes and outkicked a hungry
Tim Cassell. Jim Trotter and Jack
Smith, who had not completely reco-
vered from the.varmint attack of several
weeks ago, snatched the last two team
_ spots with respective times of 28:37 and
29:15. Finishing times were generally
‘slow due to the difficulty of the two- lap

eae ence wen © eee

course.

The course for the women’s meet was
six thousand meters (3.7 miles), an un-
usually long distance for the female har-
riers to traverse. But the Wildcats con-
cluded their season with a fine third-
place finish in the Invitational. Jean
Webb was head Wildcat harrier, finish-
ing seventh in the race in a time of
24:14. The women ran on an abbreviat-
ed version of the challenging hospital
course, so times suffered somewhat.
Sarah Patterson finished over a minute
behind Webb, and solidly outran Tama-

. a-Foreman and Chris Seel. Merris Hol-

lingsworth rounded out the female fan-
tastic five.

Plans are being finalized for the trip to
the National Championships, which
will be held in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
Team leaders are hoping to hold a fund-
raising run for the female trip westward.
The lady Wildcats qualified for the na-
tional meet at a race held several weeks
ago in Pembroke, N.C.

PART-TIME EMPLOYEE WANTED
to put posters up

on-campus now and during 1982-83.

2640 hours / month
. $4.50 / hour

Call Mr. Fenton, (800) 243-4767

continued from page 16

Behind the plate will be three-year
starter Philip (Horse) Gordon. Fight-
ing for the job and filling in as a desig-
nated hitter from the left side is Mr.
Airborne—Mick Smith.

Pitching will again be a question
mark for the Wildcats. Senior Bob
Barnes developed some consistency as
a starter at the end of last year and has
continued to improve this year (as evi-
denced by his 0.00 fall ERA). Hot or
cold Doug Wiley and Scott “Sparky”
Redding will start from the left side as
will Freshmen Matt “Yes, I’m Bigger
Than A_ Davidson Linebacker”
Walker and Scott Weaver. The Big
Pika, Ed Whitesides, will be expect to
go as both starter and a reliever. Out

for the first year and looking for a shot
at pitching is senior Kevin Attar.

David Hutchinson (off a .386
summer) will play the role of utility
infielder and freshman Chip Knox is
expected to come out after football
season and fill in as Jack-of-all-trades
for a while.

Al Baldwin (easily mistaken for
the bespectacled Darrell Porter) can
play the outfield and hit for power.
Further help is anticipated from foot-
ball players who are deciding whether
or not to trade in the rubber cleats for
the steel spikes in the spring.

On paper, the 1982-83 baseball
team looks young and inexperienced.
But then again, you don’t play the
game on paper. Baseball fever—catch

it in the spring!

Office 892-2000 ext. 149
Home 892-6573

If you want to publicize an event,
party, meeting, talk, or
just any general occurrence which
your club, group, or organization
may be conducting, please contact:

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Advertising Department

Frank J. Hague IV
Jeffrey W. Danese

| _ iain iii eet eh id ei ati ici. Si et AL Otome tees |

THE DAVIDSONIAN/29 October 1982

17
