The

Academic Masochism?
SPC Proposal Draws Support

To the Editor:

After finding out just a few days ago
about the SPC proposal of switching
over to the semester plan, I have come
to a firm conclusion concerning this
issue. It sounds great! Having talked
quite extensively about the matter with
many faculty members and students, I
cannot find anything wrong with the
idea.

First and foremost, I think the propos-
al would add an enormous amount of
flexibility to most student’s schedules.
Being an athlete on a varsity sport, I
couldn’t ask for anything more. Under
the current system, if I miss a couple of
days for an intercollegiate athletic
event, I face an incredible burden of
“catch up” upon my return to Davidson.
This often gives me little free time to do
anything but play my sport and study
long hours. But this plan would be good
for all. Under the current system, all I
ever hear is how much a person is going
to have to cram for his next test because
of the two tests and a paper that had to be
done earlier that week. Is this really a
good learning system? It would be nice
to have academic assignments spread
out over a longer period of time an give
students more time to think about the
courses they’re taking. Furthermore,
because of the current system’s intensi-
ty, it is not unusual to hear about stu-
dents getting “burned out” and becom-
ing apathetic toward their courses.

Another advantage would be that a se-
mester system would align Davidson’s
schedule with those of most other col-
leges and universities. Breaks would al-
so be must better. While still maintain-
ing a week-long fall and spring break,
Christmas breaks would be extended for
four weeks. This longer break would be
nice for those students who are far away
from home and don’t have the opportu-
nity to go home too often during the
school year.

Although many have said that a se-
mester plan would somewhat comprom-
ise Davidson’s academic integrity by
lightening course requirements, I be-
lieve this would not occur if students
were given the option of taking give
courses during one of the two yearly se-
mesters. I guess the only disadvantage I
can see in this new proposal is the fact
that it would upset a few members of the
facuty who would have to change their
current yearly routine schedules. -

Mark Nottingham 84

ee

To the Editor:

Academic masochism.

These words are closer to the hearts
of most Davidson students than are coo-
kies from home. We study on Friday
nights, during football games, over
meals, and on the throne. We derive a
sort of unnatural pleasure from taking
two mid-terms back to back. We get an
unhealthy sort of gratification from
boasting two papers and three tests all in
the same week. The most unusual as-
pect of this disease of self-flagellation,
however, is that we hardly notice it any-
more.

And yet, its manifestations are all
around us! It is evident not only in the
students’ readiness to abuse themselves
but also in one of the fundamental phil-
osophies that underlies the Davidson
Experience: the beloved (sick) Trimes-
ter System.

Alarmingly, the Trimester System
has nearly become a fetish. Some fresh-
men today even think that they came to
Davidson becauseof it! Imagine, choos-
ing Davidson just to be able to go to
each class every day, just to be able to
do homework for each class, every day.

Where will it all stop? Five classes
per day per trimester? Six? Perhaps
there will be Study Police charged with
the responsibility of seeing that every
student studies a minimum of four hours
daily per class hour. Or perhaps the
Union Café wil become someone’s
study carrel and leisure time will be-
come an Honor Code Violation. We
must not let this happen; we must exor-
cise this sado-masochistic tradition of
the Trimester System from the soul of
Davidson campus!

Yes, It’s going to be tough. Our po-
sition is analogous to the man who start-
ed hitting himself on the head with a
hammer just because he knew how good
it would feel when he stopped. We, the
students, however, have been hitting
ourselves so hard that we have forgoten
that we were supposed to have stopped.
But we must try now. _

Students of Davidson, unite! Free
yourselves from the chains (and whips)
of academic masochism before we all
experience the menopause of intellectu-
al sterility. After all, a Davidson with-
out trimesters is not a Davidson without
sunshine.

Concermedly yours,
Barry Elledge ’85

al

Controversy Consumes
Quips & Cranks Candids

To the Editor:

As concerned seniors, we are alarmed
about the memo recently sent from the
Quips and Cranks staff to all seniors.
The upshot of this memo is that the tra-
ditional senior candid section of the
yearbook is to be replaced this year by a
story—in pictures and narrative “high-
lighting the Class of 1983’s Davidson
years.”

We are distressed by this for two rea-
sons. First, it seems that this decision
has been made by the yearbook staff
without even consulting the senior
class. We have been told by staff
members that this decision was made
because the Q and C budget is not large
enough to cover the cost of the candid
section. In light of the facts that the
yearbook budget is larger this year than
in years past and that substantial sec-
tions of costly color photographs could
be run in black and white, these excuses
seem inadequate. There is a growing
concern that the yearbook staff is more
interested in producing an annual that
will win prizes and pad resumes than in
producing one that will suit the student
body.

Second, we feel the proposed “new
format to improve the senior section” is
farcical. The memo instructed seniors
who want to have their photographs
printed in the new section to submit only
5 x 7 glossy, black and white prints.
Now, realistically, how many seniors
do you know who regularly take 5 x 7
photographs? We suggest that what we
will get, if this new section is included,
is a section of phtotgraphs depicting
what the few avid photographers on
campus—most of them Q and C staff
members—hink is important about the
last four years here. The pictures may be
more technically correct, but they will
not as accurately reflect the interests of
the senior class.

The senior class is not a monolithic
entity, but rather some 370 individuals.
It is unrealistic to contend that the senior
class has many unified interests or expe-
riences. Our interests are diversified,
our experiences varied. Senior candids
are supposed to be personally meaning-
ful statements that serve as expressions
to sum up our feelings of our lives at Da-
vidson. The proposed system will simp-
ly fail to do this.

Marvin Overby ’83
David Simpson ’83
Bob Buchanan ’83
Lance Stokes ’83
John Edwards *83

THE DAVIDSONIAN/15 October 1982

To the Editor:

It has come to my attention that there
are several misconceptions about the
way in which Quips and Cranks is plan-
ning the senior section this year.

First, a letter sent to all seniors ex-
plains the format we are implementig in
the yearbook. A careful reading of this
letter should appease any fears that we
are eliminating senior candids.

Second, the editorial decision to
change the format of the sections was
based on a strong desire to upgrade the
quality of Quips and Cranks and to util-
ize space in a more effective way. What
we are doing is soliciting photographs
from seniors and underclassmen that wil
tastefully, humorously, and accuratley
represent the past four years. Along
with these candids will be a story high-
lighting the Class of 1983’s Davidson
experience.

Through this method of soliciting but
not requiring candids from seniors, we
hope to have created a more positive ap-
proach to designing the senior section.

Thus, any senior or underclassman
who wishes to submit a candid for the
senior section may do so. However, the
Quips and Cranks editors will select the
photographs that are of best quality and
that best represent the past four years.

We prefer that only black-and-white
photographs be submitted. (Color pho-
tographs reproduce poorly.) The dead-
line for turning in photographs is 6 De-
cember 1982. They may be turned in to
Mike Allen (Watts 003), Jim Reese
(Duke 113) or the Quips and Cranks of-
fice (in the Union).

The photograph should be put in an
envelope, along with a sheet of paper in-
cluding name of person turning the pho-
tograph in, who’s in the photo, what
event is taking place and when the photo
was taken.

If seniors have picture ideas but
don’t have access to a camera or to
black-and-white film, then the Quips
and Cranks staff is happy to provide a
photographer, a camera, or film. Please
join in and take a part in making Quips
and Cranks 1983 Davidson’s best year-
book ever.

Sincerely,
Jim Reese, editor-in-chief
Quips and Cranks 1983

3
