Slow M ail From : <enya

Christmas i in Kenya comes in the mid- .

die of the dry Season The days are bril-
liant and. burning in dazzling sunlight.
To travel anywhere means to be covered
in dust, as each footfall sends up small

puffs of dirt on trousers and legs and the

shirts and heads of those who follow. As
the rains stop, children know that
Christmas is coming when the Maykuyi
or “Sleép-in-on-tree” birds pass on their
annual migration around Thanksgiving
time. It is a spectacular event when
these birds swarm, circling higher and
higher above the valleys to allow all
their thousands to regroup--and then
they head off together again to the
southeast. At night their noise is quite

impressive as they all attempt to live up —

to their name.

Schools dismiss at the end of No-
vember, and then all the church child-
ren’s choirs begin preparing for the holi-
days. At home it is time to smear the
outside of the mud houses on the family
compound and. perhaps rethatch the

roofs in a decorative pattern. People .

search the riverbanks and hills for co-
lored clays to mix with cowdung and

water and then “fingerpaint” on the out-

side of the house in geometric or floral
patterns. Sometimes they write: greet-
ings like “Merry Christmas” or “Wel-
come” on the walls. The floors are also
smeared with cowdung and then deco-
rated by sweeping them in arching patt-
erns with branches when the floor is wilt
wet.

In. the week before: Christmas, nie .

family. begins: to. gather. at their tribal

home farm. In earlier times andinsome~ ~
fore traditional areas, the éntire clan

\
\
v en
\
\
Ny

¥
wu ee

 :
s

amy ep EE

~t

Lmemwwuuwuunueuueu

gathers together, but whether imme-
diate family or clan, each new arrival
from a town or school is greeted with

drums and dancing. Young people also.

hold their own dances. and parties in the
weeks surrounding Christmas.

The day of December 24 is considered
“Children’s Christmas” when all those
under 18 meet at church for games and

' sweets and sometimes to exchange
small. presents. In wealthy families it

means new clothes for the children, but
for most it is a time simply to celebrate
with friends. At sundown the drumming
begins and continues until dawn to wel-
come the Christ: child. At ‘midnight
Christians gather at church to sing all
through the night. and listen to the choir.
The.next. day is.a time: for family and
ric ee ma anc retan at
homie.

nya with emphasis on family and reli-

‘Christmas isa agi kes hotiday i in ake:

gion. The main events are church and

Christmas dinner. The special Christ-
_mas treats include bread (a luxury for

most), rice and’ sometimes sodas. For
the main meal one of the family hens
(though in big or wealthy families a

‘sheep or goat): might be slaughtered. It

is for many one of the few occasions
during the year when they eat meat.
Milk is also important for Christmas,

' and the government makes extra efforts

to distribute enough on the. holidays,

sometimes resulting in shortages before _

or afterwards.
In the face of such a simple celebra-

.tion, it is difficult to explain American
‘traditions when asked, “What do your
people do at Christms?” Santa, Ru-—

dolph, trees inside, parades, concerts,
TV: specials,, shopping, cards, foods,
snow--are all somewhat beyond. com-
prehension in this place. I-usually say
that we do-abouf the same things--deco-

rate houses, go to church, the family

-comes home, we sing traditional songs

and eat a big meal together, but we also
give each other gifts. The.sheer length
and scale of an American holiday sea-
son, however, and the disproportionate
way we “do about the same things” is
hard to get across, or even to want to get
across.

The Christmas frenzy in the US is ea-
sy to criticize and difficult to ignore, but
also, I think, does nothing to enhance
the meaning or enjoyment of the day. In
all the rush and confusion, most Amer-
icans are still waiting for that moment
when they start to feel “the Christmas
spirit,” whether religious or not. The
amazing thing is that the feeling of

- Christmas--the anticipation, the joy, the

sharing and the celebration--is the same
here. The Swahiliand Luhyuia “carols”
and dances done in a mud and thatch
church bring the same thrill and glow as
“The Messiah” and “Silent Night”. Sli-
ces of bread are as special as Christmas
cookies, . fruitcake and eggnog. and
chicken as turkey or ham. A child open-
ing a new pen or soda is as excited as the
one with the new bicycle or the latest
electronic game. The Christ child is
born not only in the lights of McAdem-
ville-or the chancel of DCPC, but also in
the mud huts and full hearts of a Kenyan

’ Christmas.

Merry Christmas from Shelly Ballan-
tine, Chris Elwood; Elaine English, Gin
Evans, ‘Hughes ‘Evans, Andy Miller,
Chris: Moore, Grace Morgan, Rick
Morgan, Vince Parker, Sally Summey
and Bill Wilson.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 22 January 1982

il
