Trespasser Accosted!

Campus police arrested a man for
trespassing in the College Guest House
the night of February 24.

Raymond A. Jackson, 22, a soldier
stationed at Fort Polk military base in
Louisiana, was charged with breaking
and entering. Jackson, briginally from
Davidson, had received a trespassing
warning from campus police once be-
fore on March 30, 1980. This warning
forbid him to be on college property ev-
er again.

Campus police officer F. Wayne .

King said an unidentified female called
the police at 12:55.a.m. to report that a
black male was walking around in the

basement of the Guest House. When
King arrived a few minutes later he
found Jackson in a basement room. The
room’s occupant was in the shower next
door. Jackson did not know the occu-
pant.

Jackson, who was intoxicated at the
time of arrest, said he was looking for
his girlfriend. Jackson also said his car
had been stolen and he was looking for
it.

King found a bottle of nine white
tablets inside Jackson’s coat. Jackson
said he did not know how they got there.
Drug charges are pending lab findings.

Jackson’s car was in the Guest

House parking lot. Campus police Ser-
geant Henry Cook and town police of-
ficer John Farrell found two brothers in-
side, Terry Franklin and Randy Lee
McLeely, Terry for trespassing and
Randy fer simple possession of marijua-
na. Terry had previously been given a
trespassing warning at the time Jackson

received his first warning. All three men —

were taken to Mecklenburg County Jail.
Jackson’s trial was set for 9:00 a.m.
Thursday, March 18, in Charlotte. Ter-
ry and Randy were released after paying
fines.

Sue Ross commented “People need
to be aware how easy it is for anyone to

walk in off the street. . . The man was
able to tell when the person was out of
the room because the blinds were op-
en.”

Ross went on to say “The reason a
bad situation was averted” was that a
student in Little “saw someone creeping
around and called the campus cops.”
She urges students to take “normal pre-
cautions” and to “be careful.”

Officer King requested students to
report any suspicious events on campus
to the camput police at 892-5131. He
added that callers should leave their
names and room numbers to aid in any

investigation. .
by Lorelei Keif ‘84

Ortmayer New Center Head

Dr. Louis Ortmayer, Assistant Pro-
fessor of Political Science will take over
as the new Director of the Center for
Special Studies next fall for a three year
term according to the De&n of Faculty
T. C. Price Zimmermann. °

President Sam Spencer appointed
Ortmayer on the recommendation of
Zimmermann and the Educational Poli-
cies Committee (EPC). Ortmayer has
been a member of the Center faculty for
three years under former Dean Frank
Bliss.

Spencer also changed the title of
Dean of the Center to Director on the
recommendation of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Faculty. According to
Zimmermann, the committee felt that
the title of director was more approp-
riate for the type of programs at the Cen-
ter.

The title of dean is a hold over from .

when the center was an Honors College,
Zimmermann said. He added that the
change would not affect the current sta-
tus of the director nor would there be
any changes in the overall structure of
the Center.

Dr. Ortmayer will select his own
faculty with the help of Zimmermann,
Bliss, and the EPC. Zimmermann must
approve the final selection. Ortmayer
said he will choose his faculty sometime
this spring, after his overall plans be-
come more stable.

The EPC, in keeping with President
Spencer’s desire to encourage. non-
western studies, and an overall trend at
Davidson enocouraging international
education, recommended that Zimmer-
mann choose someone who is not only
interested in interdisciplinary studies,

but who would be. able to develop an in-

ternational program as well.

Although his ideas are still in the
planning stage, Ortmayer anticipates
that there will be three or four different
sub-programs under the general heading
of international studies. Among these
will be an area of international political
economy which will be similar in focus
to the seminar which Ortmayer has
taught at the Center before. Seminars in
this area will focus on questions of polit-
ical economics such as trade and protec-
tionism, multinational Corporations,
and North-South relations, he said. He
has also taught a course in Development
Policy in Third World countries and one
on the European Economic Communi-
ty.

Other areas of focus might be for-
eign literature and culture, and global
issues and problems, Orymayer said. In
the area of global issues, he forsees stu-

_ dies concerning population control,

ecology, energy, and nuclear prolifera-

_ tion. This area will probably work

closely with the current faculty Task
Force on global concerns.

The Center will still be an uinbrella
for all types of interdisciplinary studies,

Orymayer said. Programs will still be-

designed essentially by the’ students,
and they will be able to work in any
number of departments.

Both Zimmermann and Ortmayer
hope to see more faculty involved at the
Center in order to cover the many as-
pects of international education. How-
evér, Zimmermann did not forsee ex-
panding the number of full-time teach-
ing Equivlents (FTE’s) that are used by
the Center. At present there are three to
three and a half professors at the center,
but these full-time slots can be filled in
any number of ways, Zimmermann
said.

Ortmayer would also like to involve
the wider community including alumni
and other contacts in the economic
field.

“I would like to see some public fo-
rums and symposia that focus on issues
which concern people here in the South-
east,” Ortmayer said. “For instance
many textile firms are in trouble be-

petition. I want to explore why these
things happen and what should be done
about it.”

Ortmayer said he would like to em-
phasize function and real issues. He said
that involving the whole community
would benefit students in terms of future
employment and contacts with alumni
would help them see how a liberal arts
education is being utilized in manage-
ment and business.

Zimmermann hopes that the new fo-
cus will enable more of the student body
as a whole to get involved in interna-
tional education. “We hope that by fre-
quent symposia and speakers, we can
make a greater impact on the curricu-
lum. We’re hoping that the Center can
become a vehicle for promoting interna-
tional education on campus and in the
community,”

by Jeff Holland ‘84

cause of, they say, cheap foreign com-

DavibSONiAA’ Fiiday 18 March tbo

q'
e Pa is

