Godspell

Davidson’ First

All-Student Production

A flamingo hat perched atop Abra-
ham’s head, the prodigal Harpo Marx,
color, lights, and dance in the form of
the Musical Godspell helped fill the 900
room with warmth and animation. With
only colorful ladders and a matching
plank of wood for the set, a group of Da-
vidson theatre veterans put on ~ the
classic musical,
crowds would agree that it was ‘well
worth the students’ effort. It was not a
perfect production, but the superb act-
ing, choreography, and music more
than compensated for some vocal short-
comings.

The show was a Davidson first in that

it was directed and produced outside the.,

auspices of the drama department, al-
though Dr. Barber and Dr.Gardner lent
much aid and the College Union donat-
ed the necessary funds. Says director

and three sell-out —

Godspell members Stephanie Moffett, Cindy Faulkenberry and Suzann Smith

Laura ‘Singleton: “Shaw was very ‘en-
thusiastic, and he and his staff were in
on it from the beginning.

Godspell was written by John-Mi-
chael Tebelak and is based on the Gos-

4 pell “accordifig to. St. Matthew. The: .

music and: lyrics -are by Stephen
Schwartz, and the play premiered off
Broadway in May 1971. The musical
extravaganza lends itself to variation in

Godspell cast members: David Barber, Cindy Faulken-berry, Roy Fuller, "Stephanie Moffett, Matt Merrell,
Ley Thorton, Eric Fichtner, Suzann Smith, Valerie Hinton, Charlie boven and Doug Vass

bij

eform from production to productiga,

and at Davidson the original choreogra-
phy, creative ad libs, and a lot of input
by each actor made the production ex-
citing and imaginative. As Laura Sin-
gleton says, “You can see it so many
times, and each time appreciate it for
what it says and the different ways that it
is done. . A
.,:Matt Merrell played the leading réle
of Christ. Other members of the
were Eric Fichner, Roy Fuller, Suzann
Smith, Cindy Faulkenberry, Doug
Vass, David Barber, Stephanie Moffett,
Loy Thornton, Charlie Lovett, and Val-

erie Hinton. The accompanying band

was directed by Pat Donley and
cluded Brian Brost Earl “fingers” W

en, George Booth, Curtis sag |
Laura McDonald.

Before this project Laura had directed
three other musicals: “Annie,” “That's
Entertainment,” and “The Pirates of
Penzanca.” Laura said that the idea‘to
do Godspell was conceived late ofie
night in early December, and the ball
started rolling from there. One major
kink in the process was the dropping out
of the original lead. Matt Merrell began
filling in four weeks before showtime:

The profits from three sell-out crowds
will go to the Davidson premier produc-
tion of Raleigh, scheduled for the end af
April. —

Newton Allen 84

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 April 1982

11
