Gridders Fall toF urman 63-14

By SCOTT HUIE ’85

If Davidson’s five previous losses
this season were bitter pills to swallow,
then last Saturday’s 63-14 loss to Fur-
man was like swallowing Tylenol-
—deadly.

For the first half, the Paladins
played 24 minutes of near perfect foot-
ball scoring an incredible 56 points
while racking up 354 yards rushing and
163 yards passing. Plugging through the
Wildcats’ porous defense at will, Fur-
man scored on nine of its ten first-half
possessions. The only blemish to an
otherwise flawless half was a lost fum-
ble at the Davidson 26, which lead to a
Wildcat touchdown drive, capped by
halfback Leonard Walker’s 12-yard
scoring run.

“Furman is just an outstanding foot-
ball team,” said Coach Ed Farrell,
“probably the best we’ve played in a
long time. For the most part we threw
the correct defensive design at them, but

Hockey Disappointed

By KARA GILMORE °85

The women’s field hockey-team fin-
“ished up the season this past weekend at
the Deep South Tournament in Boone.
Unfortunately, they didn’t finish up the
way they would have liked, dropping
the final four games of the year.

There was, however, one very
bright spot in the weekend. In addition
to being a team tournament, Deep South
is also a tournament in which individual
players are selected for All-Star teams.
Four teams are chosen: first team for
college players; first team for club play-
ers; and second and third mixed teams.
Amy Crittenburger earned the distinc-
tion of being chosen for the first team, a
real honor as one of the top eleven play-
ers our of a field of about 200. From
here Amy will go to another selection
tournament ot be held in High Point the
weekend of 12 November. She will by
vying for a spot on the Southeast team.
If she is chosen for this team, she will go
on to play at a National Tournament in
Orlando, Florida, 25-28 November.

As said before, the weekend for the
team was very disappointing. Starting
on Thursday, we dropped a 5-0 decision
to Duke. The next day we played Duke
again as part of the Deep South Tourna-
ment. We played an excellent game but
were again unable to score and lost 2-0.

Saturday night, under the lights on the
‘ Astroturf, we played the Carolina Club
team; our slide continued as we fell to
them 3-0. Sunday morning we played
our final game of the season against
Clemson Club. We played a very good,
even game but were still unable to con-
nect with the net and lost a heartbreaker.

they handled it every. time. There was
simply no room for error.”

Okay, coach, you are down by 49 at
the half—what do you tell your players
during the intermission? Keep the score
in double figures?

_ “Well, at that point,” said Farell,
“we realized we couldn’t do anything to
change the outcome, so all I asked of
them was to give 100 percent and not to
roll over and play dead.”

Apparently the team heeded the
coach’s words as they played to a se-
cond half draw, 7-7. Davidson’s score
came on a 34-yard TD strike from back

_ Up quarterback Jeff Haney to split end

Todd Hermetz, culminating an 80-yard
drive. But give a blessing to the gener-
ous Furman coaching staff, which
played only scrubs in the second half
and used a two-play offense—fullback
up the middle and halfback around end.

For the record, the Cats totalled 343
offensive yards, the Paladins 629 yards
(that’s no misprint). Quarterback Keith

" Mann‘complted only 7 of 23'pases

for 86 yards and two interceptions. Re-
serves Haney and Jay Poag both saw ac-
tion in the second half throwing for a
combined total of 100 yards.

In the rushing department, Walker
carried the ball 12 times for 41 yards,
and fullback Bob Miller gained 37 yards
in 11 carries. Defensively, end D. E.
Wright and cornerback Kendrick Wili-
ams stole the honors with 15 and 13
tackles.

Lost to injury in the running back
shuffle is halfback David Turmer, who
reinjured his shoulder. Junior Alan Ros-
ier will step in as his replacement.

Tomorrow the Cats return for their
final home game of the season as they
tackle Bucknell (3-4), who last week
lost to a strong Lehigh team 21-10. Last

formation as Davidson.

With his team coming off three con-
secutive embarrassments on the road,
Farrell said, “There is always the danger
of being overly weary after being beaten
so badly three weeks in a row. It can be
both physically and mentally telling on
us. But I don’t get the impression that
it’s having that much of a negative im-
pact on the fellows. Plus, I don’t think
Bucknell is on the same level as our last
three opponents.”

With that in mind, I am going with
the upset. This being parents’ weekend
and the last home game of the season,
the crowd support should be tremend-
ous. Thus the Cats, hungry for the taste
of victory, should have a little extra
motivation. Martin should be able to ex-
ploit a vulnerable Bison secondary.

year, the Bisons buried the Cats 23-3. Look for both teams to score big.
Overall Bucknell lacks speed and fi-
nesse but compensates with size and Huie’s Prediction:
strength, especially on defense. Offen- Davidson 35 _ -
sively, they run from the same wing-T Bucknell 30
Crittenberger chosen to

Coming Soon

Don’t miss it!

All-Tourney Team

Look for
=MOVIE

M_A_¢

in the
next
issue
of your
college
news-

26

THE DAVIDSONIAN/S5 November 1982
