R. E. M. Chronic Town

“What is probably the dream of ev-
ery local band happened to a quartet
from Athens, Georgia, last year.
They released a single on a small in-
dependent, label which generated
much critical acclaim in New York-
—so much acclaim, in fact, that the
single became the winner of both the
Village Voice and the New York
Times “Single of the Year” award.
The song was “Radio Free Europe,”
and the group is R.E.M. Now, after
being signed to a major record label,
the group has released a five song
E.P. Although there is nothing as im-
mediately remarkable as “Radio Free
Europe” on this record (which is hard-
ly surprising, given the excellence of
that 45) the overall quality of the EP is
very good, and it provides support for
the critics’ opinions that R.E.M. is
one of the most exciting new bands
around today.

The band is probably best described

as a “New Wave” band for lack of a
more specific term, but this is not
your average twang bang combo.
R.E.M. is firmly rooted in the Sixties
tradition of melodic, danceable rock
& roll. The guitar work is alternately
powerful and delicte, with rhythmic
slashings and contrapuntal picking in
equal proportion. The bass and drums
are exciting and propulsive without
being intrusive, providing excellent
background for the vocals of Michael
Stipe. The singing is rightly highligh-
ted, since it pretty much epitomizes
“the R.E.M. sound;” Stipe sings with
a natural ease that borders on incoher-
ence without losing effectiveness. It’s
almost as if an Appalachian James
Dean was transported into the front of
the band—every half-garbled word
and whine resounds with frustration
and triumph, with wisdom and nai-
veté, and leaves an immediate mark
on the listener. In other words, this
guy is really good!

Reco rd Reviews_ with Jon Glance—

It’s difficult to pick a best song on
the record, because the EP is so solid.
“Wolves, Lower” is interesting for its

-Byrd-like guitar picking, appropriate

space noise solo section, springing
killer beat and winning hook-bristled
refrain. “Carnival of Sorts (Box
Cars)” evokes Woody Guthrie with
lyrics like “Gentlemen don’t get
caught/Box cars are turing out of
town” and with talk about strangers,
secrets, and escape from a Chronic
town which is every Southern boy’s
dream. Another fine song is “Stum-
ble,” which is about something pretty
incomprehensible but it sure sounds
good. The EP is produced by Mitch
Easter from Winston-Salem, who

produced their hit single (as well as
having produced the dB’s, the Cos-
mopolitans, the Fabulous Knobs, and
the X-teens, to name just the bands in
recent memory). The sound is clean
with a hint of reverb on the vocals,
and it becomes quite likeable after a
few listenings.

If you’re in the market for a new al-
bum by a great new band, buy
CHRONIC TOWN. Then you can
say you knew about them before they
become the next big thing around
here. If you like powerful, fun rock, I
have no doubt you'll love R.E.M. Do
yourself a favor, and see what all the
raves are about.

=

- Continued from page 1

The most important arguments fa-

voring the semester system seem to [the
SPC] to be the following:
1. Students will have more time to as-
similate material, and more time for re-
search papers and other _ individual
work such as Honors theses.

2. At the same time, introductory
language courses can significantly in-
crease their contact hours by continuing
to meet 5 times per week.

3. Greater compatibility with most
other schools’ calendars would enable
more Davidson students and faculty to
take advantage of exchange programs.

4. Faculty will have more time for re-
search, having '/ rather than 1/3 year
sabbaticals at full pay.

5. Absences dué to sickness or pro-
fessional meetings wil result in miss-

ing fewer meetings of any single class.
6. Registration periods would be re-
duced to 2 per year.

7. The awkwardness of a term split

by Christmas vacation will be elimi-
nated.

8. A change would encourage all of

us, individually and as departments,
to rethink what we are doing. It's been
16 years since the “Blue Sky” began.

Continued from page 1

would dramaticaly increase the depth
and. quality of courses. “it’s virtually
impossible to get them [the students]
through the material in a ten-week time
frame,” said Thornberry at the SPC’s
open student meeting.

- Thomberry says that a semester sys-
tem improves learning by means of a

“percolation éffeet;”"” where. sttidents

have time between classes to comtem-

plate the material. She also notes that

the semester system would open up a
rich variety of exchange opportunities
by allowing our calendar to coincide
with most schools.

Regardless of the supposed benefits
of a switch, many students would like to
preserve the term system simply be-
cause it is “unique to Davidson.” At last
Wednesday’s SPC open meeting for
students, many freshmen pointed out

that one of their main reasons for com-

ing to: Davidson was the term system.
Another student .said that “a real
drawback” with the Proposal is that it
“would be a decrease in the number of
courses” a student can take. According
to the student, Davidson’s rigorous core
and major requirements already con-
sume enought time, and the proposal
would reduce the variety of our “liberal

_arts experience.”

Some students also objected to the
proposal because it would reduce the
number of courses taught each year
from 600 to 500 and it would increase
the average class size by 1'4 students.

SGA President Tim Johnston says
the administration must consult him
before deciding on the proposal. He
plans to conduct a verbal poll of the
students, and some have suggested an
actual student referendum.

_ THE DAVIDSONIAI

RAO ETAL Sa A

& October. 1982... OCS
’ 4 es OOO obte ‘
6, oo ° oe .

@eore
