An Interview

Charles Wright: The Life of a Poet

- His soft, unpretentious voice shows the mark of 16
years in southern California, but the long “o’s” and

a’s” still betray his beloved Tennessee heritage. Cha-
cles Wright, Class of 57, distinguished poet and trans-

lator, came back to Davidson last week for the first
time after 25 years. He came to present the Vereen Bell

Writing Award, which he himself had won in 1957.

Before the awards presentation in the 900 Room °

Wright reminisced about his Davidson days, when ev-
ening Se ee!

“I always wanted to come back and stand tallli in ichap-
- el, the way. Shaw Smith always did,” he quipped. “In-
stead, here J am in a bar.”

The 25 years since his graduation have been fruitful .

ones for Wright. From Davidson he Went into the army
for four years, three of them spent in Italy. He received
a Master of Fine Arts at the University of Iowa and re-
turned to Italy as a Fullbright Scholar. Since then he
has taught at the University of California at Irvine and
lived in a house overlooking the Pacific with his wife,
Holly, anid his son.

Five books of poetry, a book of translations, and nu-
merous honors, inluding. the. P.E.N: Translators

Award and a nomination for The National Book Award —_-

in Poetry, are the oaitward and visible signs of the
poet’s work.

Wright had called bis Davidson experience “four
years of amnesia” in an interview with the journal Field
in 1977. Indeed history major and SAE brother Chuck
Wright was at times difficult to see in the poet Charles

Wright. Ross Smythe ’58, who was Wright's fraternity ,

brother, admitted it wasa little strange to sée “someone
you’d been drinking with and breaking the rules at Da-
vidson with” become a noted poet. And yet, Smythe
said in retrospect. that he really isn’t suprised. at
Wright’s career. He remembered Wright for his “quick
mind” and “good wit” and said he was “definitely
known as a writer by his senior year.”

Wright spoke about his life and vocation in a series of
conversations last Friday. Some highlights:

Davidsonian: What was your winning entry for
the 1957 Vereen Bell Contest like?

Charles Wright: It was three stories called “Death
in These Three”—a very pompous. and pretentious ti-
tle. The third story was particularly overwritten and
when the guy gave me the prize he said- Faulkner had

once said that perhaps the great American novel: would —

be written by the person who could mix the most met-

aphors in one sentence. Then, holding my manuscript,, -

he said, “This person has a chance.

Still-to.this day I like mixing metaphors. It can: be _

very powerful if you do it properly.

All three stories were pretty. much non-narrative. I
really can’t tell a story, I tried when I was here, but I
was terrible.

D: There is a sense of vocation in your poetry, al-

most an inner necessity to write, and to write in an
effort to recover your past. Pyne really Ger} tater
in this sense?

CW: In a way: It’s ‘what I do instead of going to -

church, or: playing golf. 1-write poems.

I do think recovery is one of the: great aims of art.
Some people try to tecover their own lives. Great peo-
ple try to recover lost pieces of civilization. It depends
on where you think your level of talent lies. Ezra Pound

10.

_stop and go into banking, ergs Recioweagined fl
‘wanted to. I just don’t'want to.

tried to recover the break-up of Western Civilization as
he saw it. I’m trying to recover the broken parts of my
past life. Les Reon: anes meniaen 3 o1g6 OF-
der—although that’s a pretty high aspiration.

Of course, we're not fated to do anything. I could

‘D: When did you first feel the urge to write?
~ CW: Talways kind of wanted to write. T wanted to

write when I was here but I.couldn’t. My mother al--
“ways thought it would be a nice fins to have’ a winter

for a son"

He Seat,

. D: Tihat’s rare!”
Cw: Very rare. She ied fo date oie s broth-

er. She was very intrested int-lite¢atute.’ So.it was al-
ways a good thing to read books at my house. [read all
of Faulkner by the time I graduated from high school.
Which was bad, really, because then I didn’t read him

- later on when I could have understood him a fittle bet-

ter. Going to high schol near Asheville, I was also

- completely under the spell of Thomas Wolfe, who: you

have to read before you’ re 20 or 21.
I was always encouraged to write by my ‘nother.

"My father didn’t really understand but never gave me
‘trouble about it. When I got to be 31 he said, “So when

are you going to get a job?” And I said, “T just got one.”
I'd been self-supporting since the day I left Davidson,
but I didn’t have a regular job till I was 31. Which isa:
