eee aie ae,
¥ots2h?

To the Editor:

I am hurt. It. seems that my letter of two

weeks ago, while praised by many was

completely . misunderstood ;by some.

Apparently. my: less than perfect reputa-

tion led some.people to think that in ask-

ing people to have more fun, I was ask-

ing them to drink themselves into obliv-

jon. Nothing could be further from the:
truth. My letter was not even about al-
cohol. It-was about having fun and not’
worrying about images and reputations.

Although I have been known to indulge
in alcoholic beverages, I do not limit my
definition of fun to drinking. Getting
drunk is only one of many ways to have
fun..For instance, one could read a good
book or listen to Beethoven.

__ The people-who read my letter as the
confessions of a frustrated hedonist not
only miss my point, but reinforce it. Da-
vidson students sometimes take things
too seriously. I am not asking you to
change your lifestyle,.1 only want to en-

courage you to do your own thing. If :

watching the dryers go around at the
laundry gets you off, great! Do it! But
don’t:do it because it is required or to fit
in, or to make some pointless statement.

Do it because you want to. How. many
- times ‘have you you heard this before:
“I'd love to, but...,” or “Not at David-
son College!” or “That sounds like fun
but I have a test next week?” That is
what I am talking about. If your idea of
fun doesn’t involve alcohol, that’s fine.
All I am saying is do something for
yourself for. a change, instead. of for
Mom and Dad, or law school, or David-
son College.

As for Ester Kim, Warren Overby,
and the SGA, I am well aware of North
Carolina alcoholic beverage laws, and I
think that that is as good a reason as any
for postponing Hattie’s Night. However
Ihave it from several people that the pri-
‘tary reason for the cancellation, given
by the administration, was that Hattie’s
was ‘ “atypical” of Davidson and did not

present a good i image. That is what I ob-

je

I am beginning to sound like the left-
wing equivalent of Jerry Falwell, so I
am going to stop: I just wanted to
Straighten out the confusion. If you are
having fun, however you do it, keep it
up, I was not writing to you. But for the
rest of you, sitting around wishing vou
were doing something exciting this
week-end, do it! Get crazy! Learn the
first phrase of having fun — “What the
hell!”

Jeff Holland ‘84

To the Editor:

First, let me express my apprecia-
tion to reporter Brian Butler and your
staff for the article about WDAV and
the decision to continue alternative
music programming (rock and jazz).
Given the many factors involved in the
decision, Brian did an excellent job.

There is one important aspect of the
decision, however, that needs clarify-
ing. Ther article stated that the question
I had to ask in making the decision was
“,..mot whether or not the music was
valuable, but ‘Can we, as a small sta-
tion, do two formats in one broadcast
day?” While the question of two. for-
mats was a factor to consider, it was not
the overiding concern. The question of

whether or not the music was valuable,

however, was a most significant one.
Let me quote from my March 31
memo to the staff explaining the reasons

behind the decision, a copy of which -
_ was given to The Davidsonian:

The decision to continue the alterna-
tive programming was made fundamen-

tally because the music is providing a
meaningful service throughout the sta-
tion’s coverage area. FLIPSIDES, first —
of all, is truly a unique alternative tothe

offerings of commerical rock stations is

WDAV's coverage area. Anditisasub- |
stantive alternative—emphasizing the . |
‘artistic yet unappreciated aspects of ff

Eee a Re eee

Secondly, the alternative music. pro-

gramming has an audience. It is not a from.

large audience to be sure, but it is of suf-
ficient size to warrant the continuation
of programming currently available in

this area only on WDAV. The calls and:

letters received demonstrate well the
commitment of the group being served
by alternative programming. ...If alter-
native music is to continue of WDAV,
then a genuine effort to provide a high
quality service must be made....The
station will continue to offer the stu-
dents involved in: alternative program-
ming a large measure of freedom; how-
ever, and I know those involved agree,
that freedom must be used to ensure a
quality product.

Again, thanks for. your excellent
coverage of WDAV and the alternative

music programming decision.
Sincerely,

John Clark
Station Manager

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
our readers. We try to print alt ke
ters that are of general interest, but.we
adhere to these four,guidelines:

[1] We require that letters be in our

hands by Tuesday 7pm. a
[2] We require that letters be neatly -

~[(3] We require that letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editor, Ste-
wart Cauley.

[4] We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-
ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-color.
slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a vie-
point very similar to that expressed in
many letters printed on the same topic.
We also reserve the right to condense
Nery long letters.

- The Davidsonian does not in any

‘way eadarse the opinions’ éxpressed i
letters that we print.

Stewart Cauley, Editor —

DAREN ALE OE PRL ITT ERE ALTA EE RIT LTRS LEG ELE HE as NER LEE BN ST ARE

