Film Reviews

Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid will be
shown at 1 a.m., April 17 in the 900 Rooom: Itis a roll-

iciking good-time film that hearkens back to the “olden.

days” when the West was young and spry.

The film tells the story of Butch Cassidy (Paul
Newman), the freedom-seeking adventurer, and the
Kid (Robert Redford) who is an unemployed “gunslin-
ger.” The pair have dreams of winning the West in
1898, after it has already been won. Feeling the en-
croachment of trains, banks, law and order, they head

out for Bolivia and further adventure. They never quite.
make it that far, however, as the 20th century catches _

up with them before they can escape,

Redford and Newman are not at a loss for being
able to act; however in Butch Cassidy’, director
George Roy Hill doesn’t seem to know what to do with
what he’s got. The whole film is hampered by a lack of
thorough characterization; we never get past the char-
acters’ comic fronts, we never understand what drives
them.

The relationships that develop between the charac-
ters are as weak as their own individual personalities.
While the scenes of love, friendship, and commradery
have a happy jovial air about them, they are also-amaz-
ingly trite. This seems especially to be the case when
Burt Bacharach’s “Rain Drops Keep Falling on my
Head” is piped in from the background. A balance be-

tween sincerity and comedy seems to never be reached.

Teeter-tottering can become a bit disheartening.

Go to see Butch Casidy and the Sundance Kid
ready to dredge up that spark of idealism nested deep
within, ready to. pull it out and laugh. But expect no
more out of this happy-go-lucky film.

If you haven’t as yet had your fill of Mr. Redford
on the screen, Fine Films gives you amother chance on
Wednesday, April 21 at 9:15 p.m. with The Way We
Were:: The love story tells of Katie Morosley (Barbra
Streisand),,.an impassioned Jewish communist, and
Hubbell. Gardiner, a dull WASPy all-American guy
who writes for a living. They initially meet in college
in the 30s and run into one another when he is on leave
from military duty in 1944. They end up married and
living in Hollywood just when MacCarthy’s wrath
comes to the fore in his infamous red witch hunts. This
story-line provides the initial framework for the movie,
but it all seems quite unimportant, or at least it is treat-
ed by the movie makers as such.

The movie begins in 1944, flashes back to the 30s,
and then forward again in the 50s. We are never sure

fie how: ‘they got 'to Hollywood i in the end, or even why

they are there. At other times the movie P drags with long:

THE WAY WE WERE

piercing romantic gazes and pauses which: don’t. add to

_ the romance as much as detract from the reality of what

one is viewing.:

The historical setting is only a backdrop for the real
actionthe relationship of Hubbell and Katie. Barbra
Streisand takes over the picture as Katie, the strong-
willed, committed, balanced individual, contrasted
with the complacent, flaky, wishy-washy Hubbell.
Hubbell seems to exist only for Katie and her prodding
which ‘stems from her belief in him. 3

All of this pushes Redford into the background as
the passive Hubbell, and allows Streisand to shine.
Redford finally fades away all together. after his brief

_ liason with another woman, leaving Streisand standing

alone ‘at the end. It almost seems’ to be her story and
should be renamed The Way I Was .

For thosé of you smitten by spring fever, with the
need for a touch of romance and a hint of drama, don’t
miss The Way We Were. -

Continued from page 5

conditions. Obviously external powers have vested in-
terests in the way the crisis plays itself out; after all,
U.S. foreign investment and CIA marieuverings, as
well as Cuban guns and French arms sellers, surely
play an important role. What is key is that the roots and
eventual solution of the crisis lie with the : Salvadorans.

It increasingly appears that a large part of the crisis
is the political vacuum of power—neither Duarte and
the political moderates, nor the guerrillas, nor the mil-
itary, nor the conservative oligarchy seem to be able to
build a minimum consensus either among themselves
or among the peasant population. Of all ballots cast in
the elections, Duarte received 36 percent, but the five
rightist military and business-backed parties carried 52
percent split between them. Between 11 and 12 percent
of the ballots were cast blank or mutilated, as the guer-
rillas had requested. Duarte said that if leftists had par-
ticipated in the elections, he expects thay would have
received 15 to 20 percent of the vote, placin

third begind the Christian Democrats and agi

son’s ARENA party (New York Times, April 2,
- 1982:A8). While the guerrillas can probably resist in-

definitely in the remote-‘mountainous regions, and the
military can continue holding them off in other areas
with continued weapons supplies, fieither side seems
capable so far of either forcing consensus through vio-
lence, or building a consensus politically.

Ni

amorphous with no clear dynasty to smash lik
(the so-called 14 families that control most of the
wealth and power are actually y more like 244 families,
according to Gabriel Zaid, below), -and no leader able
to unite the various factions or the peasantry has
emerged. Zaid, a distinguished Mexican social critic,
characterizes the internal politics of El Salvador as a
shifting constellation of foes turned friends turned foes
again, with leaders shifting not only
pales ppreerte: ei gerlandyst uerrill:
(Dissent, Winter ‘to pied cP ra ul \-depth.

had Somoza, and Cuba had Castro, but El
Salvador has ‘neither something to unite against, nor —
someone to unite behind. The wealthy oligarch: ris too

within each camp, se

other than the current president: Jose Napoleon
Duarte. . . And who was Duarte’s partner, the
vice-presidential candidate? None other than his
current enemy: Guillermo Manuel Ungo, now
president of the Democratic Revolutionary Front
(FDR). What post did Ungo hold one year before
presiding over this front agairist the junta? A
member of the junta . . . Ungo replaced Enrique
Alvarez Cordoba, assassinated on November 27,
1980, while head of the FDR. What post did Al-
varez hold until January of that same year? Min-
ister of agriculture i in the junta . . . What back-
ground did Alvarez bring to these reforms? He
was no less than a plantation owner, one of the
Alvarez clan (of the ‘14 families’) . . . in 1972,
he was minister of agriculture under Colonel Ar-
turo Armando Molina, none other than the offi-
~ dial candidate who stole the elections from
Duarte and Ungo. In other words: ‘Ungo collects
‘the mail of his enemy of 1972, Alvarez is assassi-
nated by his allies of a few months earlier, and
the Democratic Revolutionary — Front was

Continued on page ig

