Davidson Meets the Computer Age

Sloan grant will provide for fellowships and symposia

By JIM CROWE ’83

The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation re-
cently announced that Davidson has re-
ceived one of its prestigious “New Lib-
eral Arts” development grants worth
$250,000.

The Sloan Foundation, a major
funder for basic research in the United
States, will offer over $3 million this
year to selected colleges for programs
designed to introduce the methods of
applied math and technological devel-
opment into the liberal arts curriculum.

Associate Professor of Psychology
John Brockway, a member of the com-
mittee which drafted the Davidson grant
proposal, described the grant as “the
chance for educating our faculty so that
they will become familiar and thorough-
ly comfortable with technological as-
pects, including applied mathematics,
of their own disciplines.”

Brockway further spoke of the grant
in terms of the recognition of Davidson.
“Tt means that we’re competing at the
very highest level in the country suc-
cessfully. We are among a very select
group of schools.”

Davidson was among 33 of the na-
tion’s more than 3500 liberal arts insti-
tutions invited to submit proposals to
the foundation. The 33 schools were se-
lected on the basis of the present mean
Scholastic Aptitude Test scores of in-
coming freshmen. Each of the schools
chosen was given a planning grant of
$10,000 to support the proposal-writing
efforts of faculty and consultants.

Upon receiving the invitation to app-
ly for the program last spring, College
President Sam Spencer appointed a
Sloan Advisory Committee to draft a
proposal for the grant. Associate Dean
of the Faculty Nicholas Burnett was ap-
pointed director of the Sloan project,
while professors Brockway, Robert De-
Sieno, Bruce Jackson, Earl MacCor-
mac, Robert Manning, James Swisher,
and Mary Thornberry , representing sev-
en different departments, were enlisted
as committee members.

The committee met once or twice a
week.during the summer as a group and
conducted a luncheon for all faculty to
discuss the proposal. The committee
hired consultants to assist with the com-
pletion of the proposal, including David
Billington, Professor of Civil Engineer-
ing at Princeton, and Maynard Thomp-
son, Professor of Mathematics at India-
na.

The proposal was submitted on Sep-
tember 8. By December, the Sloan
Foundation had announced that David-
son and nine others—Carleton, La-
fayette, Grinnel,, Mount Holyoke,
Oberlin, Union, Vassar, Wellesley, and
Williams — would receive grants of
$250,000 to implement their proposals.
The remaining schools were awarded
$25,000 each.

Davidson’s success in the competi-

tion is particularly significant in light of
the fact that no engineering programs
are offered at the school. Most of the
other winners benefit from the interac-
tion with technical institutes within their
schools or communities. Officials cite
several factors which helped Davidson
to stand out. Brockway, who met with
representatives from all the winning
schools recently in New York City, has
read all the winning proposals. He said
of the Davidson proposal, “It’s one of
the better proposals. We won essential-
ly on merit because we chose to educate
our faculty and chose innovative-look-
ing programs.”

MacCormac pointed out that the
Mathematics department had already
taken a step in the general direction of
the program 2 years ago when it made
the explicit decision to move away from
the pure areas of math to applied math.

tem, to make the investment of David-
son College as productive as possible.”

DeSieno cited calculation, manage-
ment of texts, computer-assisted in-
struction, presentation of images, data-
based management, and the evolyition
of models as specific areas in which the
computer will become more valuable to
Davidson.

Regarding exposure to the computer ~

system in the liberal arts experience,

‘DeSieno warned, “Computers will be-

come so ubiquitous that the student who
completes his education without at least
some working knowledge of computers
will be at an immediate disadvantage.”
He went on to say, “Students need

_ enough grasp of how computers work so

that they won’t be intimidated by the
technology, but will see the computer
systems as tools to help tem in whatever
they are doing.”

The growing interest in computing

* at Davidson, stimulated by the recent

installation of the new Prime 750 com-
puter system, an administrative com-
puter, and a host of systems compo-
nents, will fit well into the spirit of the
Sloan program.

Director of Computer Services Ro-
bert DeSieno said that while only 18
months ago the number of computer us-
ers was “a few dozen,” today there are
almost 500 directories making 10,000
to 11,000 log-ins each month on the
Prime 750 alone, with another 100-125
directories on the administrative com-
puter.

DeSieno said, “The purpose of the
Computer Center is to supply the needs
of the faculty, students, and administra-
tion for what kind of work they think is
productive. Of course, the means of be-
ing productive are constantly changing
now.”

DeSieno was hired over two years
ago to locate, obtain, and install a major
computer system for the College. Hav-
ing completed that objective, he says
the major challenge of the Director’s
position now is “to make the computer
function in such a way that the College
is tapping the full potential of the sys-

Work with the computer, however,
represents only one aspect of the David-
son proposal. The focus of the Davidson
Sloan proposal lies in enrichment pro-
grams for faculty in the social sciences
and humanities over a period of two
years. The proposal abstract states,
“This program will provide opportuni-
ties for about 72 percent of Davidson’s
78 full-time faculty members in the hu-
manities and social sciences.”

The program itself has four parts —
fellowships, symposia, summer work-
shops, and summer fellowships.

The Sloan grant will release twelve
faculty members from teaching, two per
term over the two-year period, to devel-
Op new courses.

Each term over the two-year period,
a Sloan faculty fellow will direct a sym-
posium centering on the fellow’s new
course ideas. These symposia will be
open to all students of the Charlotte con-
sortium, and they may involve partici-
pants from other institutions. Outside
consultants hired to help direct the pro-
gram will participate in at least two of
the symposia.

Faculty summer workshops will

train 30 members of the humanities and
social science departments — 15 during
each of two summers — in applied
mathematics and computer methods.
Bruce Jackson, head of the Math De-
partment, will serve as director of the
first applied math workshop from July 5
to August | of this year. Mathematics
Professors Benjamin Klein and Ri-
chardson King will serve as workshop
instructors. Two important mathemati-
cians, Maynard Thompson and Thomas
Saaty, have been signed to present guest
lectures at the workshop.

Thompson, Professor of Mathemat-
ics at Indiana, will present the lectures
during the first two weeks of the work-
shop. He has been an active advisor
throughout the preparation of the prop-
osal, having met with the Advisory
Committee and with the faculty last
summer. Enthusiasm for Thompson’s
work runs high among members of the
Advisory Committe. Jackson said,
“Thompson has been very instrumental
in devising curricula at liberal arts col-
leges and in teaching the use of mathem-
atical models in a variety of academic
disciplines.” Thompson co-authored a
book which Jackson describes as “prob-
ably the most successful undergraduate
text on modeling of the last decade.”
Jackson also cited Thompson’s work on
behalf of the Mathematical Association
of America as significant to the process
of teaching applied math concepts in
liberal arts institutions across the coun-
try.
Thomas Saaty, Professor in the
Graduate School of Business at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh, will present the
last week of lectures. Saaty, who works
in the field of the analytical hierarchy
process, has written many books on a
variety of topics. His works include
such titles as Decision Making for Lead-
ers, Mathematical Models of Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament, Thinking with
Models, and The Spirit and Uses of the
Mathematical Sciences. In addition to
his writing, Saaty has served as a leader
in operations research, a popular lectur-
er in the National Science Foundation’s
Chautauqua Seminars, and as a consul-
tant in the State Depoartment and other
government offices.

This summer’s workshop will deal
generally with some of the mathematics
topics found in the Davidson Math 24
course Probability, Matrix Algebra, and
Graph Theory. Jackson said, “The em-
phasis will be on studying applications
of these topics to serious academic pur-
suits in the literature of the humanities
and social sciences. We hope the work
done by faculty in learning to criticize
models and to understand clearly the as-
sumptions made by each model will
help faculty to pursue these topics after
the workshop.”

Both the workshops and the sympo-
sia will be conducted in direct cooper-
ation with Johnson C. Smith University
of Charlotte.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
