Davidson entered the final minutes of the half with
a two point lead and the ball, but could capitalize on
neither of two possessions. The Irish, however, con-
verted their final two possessions into baskets and thus
entered the locker room with a 31-29 lead. -

Davidson’s never-say-die defense opened the se-
cond half with a steal that eventually led the Cats to tie
the game.at 31-31. Notre Dame controlled the lead for
the first nine minutes of the second half, but the Wild-
cats really turned the game around when Carroll nailed
an 18-footer to the right of the key to regain the lead,
41-39.

€

It was at about that point that Davidson fans disco-
vered what basketball is all about.

At the midpoint of the second half, Carroll
gambled one time too many and fouled for the fourth
time. The hearts of five thousand trembled as Bobby
Hussey motioned to Carroll to take the bench. Tension
eased 1:16 later when the veteran floor marshal re-
turned.

“T told Coach Hussey it was now or never,” Carroll
explained later. A prolonged stay on the bench would
tighten the ailing back muscles and render him useless.

Both teams were showing the cool confidence and
poise necessary to win during the last five minutes of
regulation, but when Carroll threw away a pass against
the Irish press with 4:18 left and a 45-43 lead, it ap-
peared the Wildcats would be the ones to crack. Notre
Dame, however, could not capitalize, and on David-
son’s next trip down Kenny Wilson was fouled while
shooting, but the basket didn’t fall.

With the clock stopped at 3:08, KW canned one of
the free throws, giving Davidson a 46-43 lead.

In the subsequent minute and a half, however, Da-
vidson made two potentially game-losing mistakes.
First was a turnover. Luckily for Davidson, the Irish
once agin lost control of the ball and in the ensuing
scramble Tribus surfaced with the ball. He took the ball
downcourt, and with a huge, arching, snakelike win-
dup that used every bit of his 82-inch frame, attempted
a dunk that conceivably would have been the game. In-
stead, it ricocheted off the rim and Notre Dame came
down with the ball. Paxson hit the first of three consec-
utive jump shots to put the Irish within one, 46-45.

Kenny Wilson got fouled on Davidson’s next pos-
session and with 1:39 left he stepped to the line for a
one-and-one with pressure heaped upon his shoulders.
He hit the crucial front end, but missed the second shot
to bring the score even, 47-45.

Paxson again tied the game on one of his innumera-
ble off-balance soaring shots, but with 1:09 remaining
JC broke it with two more pressure-packed one-and-
one free throws. Paxson neutralized those with yet
another stunning 20-footer, and with :42 remaining Ir-
ish Coach Digger Phelps had his troops call timeout.

> é

The Wildcats inbounded the ball successfully and
worked the ball around the perimeter, but with :09 left
it came loose and all hell broke loose. This time the Ir-
ish came up with the ball and called time with :03
showing.

The Irish got the ball to Paxson with little diffi-
culty, but as soon as he got it he was double-teamed by
6-10 Tribus and 6-6 Richard Wilson. The 6-2 All-
American desperately three the ball in the direction of
the basket, but it fell quite short as regulation expired.

With 5:00 of OT to play, there was one key statistic

few people noticed: Davidson team fouls-4; Notre
Dame-7.

Cliff Tribus’ s almost spectacular dunk.

Notre Dame won the tip, but Kenny Wilson forced
a 5-second call and the Wildcats were in the driver’s
seat. Both teams agreed on a deliberate pace, but Ken-
ny Wilson took steps prematurely—or so thought the
officials—and Notre Dame again had control.

The Irish eventually worked the ball inside to Bill

Varner, who appeared to an easy dunk. Not so. Rowan
came from the helpside to seal it off, and Tribus came
from Varner’s back side to execute a perfect black and
force a jump ball. On the possession rule, it was David-
son’s ball.

On the Wildcat end of the court, Rowan got the ball
on the right baseline. He drove the live for what
seemed a sure dunk, but got fouled at the 3:08 mark.
He hit the first of two free throws and the Cats were
once again on top, 50-49.

A minute and a half later, Tom Sluby gave the Irish
their first goal in sone time, and at the 1:40 point Da-
vidson asked for a time out. Again they worked the ball
deliberately, and again they stopped the clock, this
time with :43 showing.

As they worked the ball patiently around the pe-
rimeter, the Irish defense shifted well—for about fif-
teen seconds. When the sharpshooting Tribus got hold
of the ball, he was swarmed. He reversed it to Kenny
Wilson, who reversed it to Carroll, who was left unco-
vered by the crowd surrounding Tribus. “Carroll was
one we didn’t want to take the shot,” Phelps would say
later. There was never any doubt about the accuracy of
the senior guard’s shot, and when it touched down with
27 seconds left, the Davidson fans exploded with the
realization that they were going to win.

The Irish worked the ball to half-court and called
time out with :21 remaining. When action resumed
with the inbounds, Paxson got the ball, and as he drove
left Richard Wilson drew a blocking foul but Notre
Dame wasn’ t in the bonus.

The Irish took the ball out with :14 on the clock,
and agin the ball found its way into Paxson’s hot hands.
There was never any doubt about the senior guard’s
shot, but it hung in the air for an eternity. When it
landed, there was a mad scramble for the loose ball. It
bounced out of bounds, and with baited breath and
pounding hearts, thousands took the edge of their seats
awaiting the official decision with the clock showing
:04, he slowly raised his hand and pointed toward the
Davidson bench. The crowd bellowed with relief and
the thrill of victory.

Slowly they ringed the court to watch Tribus in-
bound the ball. The Irish fought and hustled to seal any
openings, and Tribus made a heady time out call.

When the Wildcats again took the floor, they ran
the same play, and again no one was really open.
Maybe Rowan? Tribus put the ball where it had to be: a
few inches shorter and a defender got it; a few inches
higher and it was loose. It was right on the money, and
as Rowan came down he collided with Varner, who
had moved under him. Davidson was in the bonus.

Rowan, a study in poise and concentration, stepped
up to the line with the weight of a long-starved basket-
ball program on his shoulders. And he graced only net.
54-51.

Richard Wilson came down with the inbounds
pass, and with that ball came Davidson’ s biggest win in
ten years. At least. Everyone knew it, and when
hundreds rushed the court frantic with joy, it was be-
cause, as Digger Phelps said later, “They outplayed us.
It’s Davidson’s moment. Give it to em.”

14 | THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983
