Two from the ©
Duchy of Urbino

By JOHN EGLIN ’84

It is Monday evening, and a befuddled fledgling
journalist has been dispatched to perform his debut as-
signment—to cover the lecture of an eminent art histo-
rian, Professor Cecil Clough of the University of Li-
verpool. Armed with his notebook, his trusty Panason-
ic RQ337 compact portable tape recorder, and a pro-
found urge to kick himself for his unselfish volunta-
rism, our protagonist entered the cavernous Chambers
Gallery and found himself surrounded by the various
subspecies of Academia Davidsoniensis: administra-
tors and their wives, professors and their spouses, stu-
dents and their books. At the center of it all was the vast
blankness of a projector screen and an artist named Ra-
phael Sanzio.

ah

the Dean of the Faculty now begged for the atten-
tion of all present and Dean Zimmermann announced
that the speaker had conducted his studies at Exeter
College of Oxford University, where he “acquired a
reputation for erudition and good companionship in the
various Oxford pubs.” The hapless author was later
able to learn in an inexpertyly conducted interview that
Professor Clough’s interest in art was sparked in his
family’s considerable library and during frequent visits
to Italy owing to his family’s ownership of a villa in
that country. Professor Clough began his lecture,
which was enlivened by the eccentricities of his broad
Midlands accent, and proceeded with lucidity despite
the necessities of frequent instructions to the projec-
tionist.

The renowned Renaissance artist Raphael Sanzio
completed three panel paintings while in the service of
his patron, the Duke of Urbino. Two of these were por-
tions of a hinged diptych capable of being folded. On
the left panel was depicted Saint George, patron of the
Order of the Garter, in combat with the dragon com-
monly associated with him. On the right, we see the
winged Saint Michael about to deliver the coup de
grace to a demon. Both of these panels are currently
housed in the Louvre in Paris. ,

The third panel is part of the collection of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, where Pro-
fessor Clough had recently delivered this very lecture.
This panel is another portrayal of Saint George, in
which he wears the blue and gold emblem of the Eng-
lish Order of the Garter above his left calf. The purpose
of Professor Clough’s lecture was to “examine the
questions of who commissioned these works, why they
were painted, and when.”

These works are associated with the elections of the
Duke of Urbino and his nephew to the Order of the Gar-
ter and theFrench Order of Saint Michael, respective-
ly, and with the adoption by the Duke,Guidobaldo
Montefeltro, of the vry nephem, Francesco Maria della
Rovere.. This Francesco della Rovere was the nephew
of Cardinal Giulilano della Rovere, who later became
Pope Julius I]. The adoption of Francesco, who be-
came the heir of the reputedly impotent and childless
Duke Guidobaldo, who was the résultofshrewd politi-
cal manipulations of Pope Julius. Behind the “Louvre
Diptych” _ ies aninteresting tale of international in-
trigue.

In 1502, Cesaare Borgia, Pope Alexander VI’s in-
famous illegitimate son, invadedthe Duchy of Urbino
and seized effectual power ove the Duchy for the Bor-
gia papacy. Francesca della Rovere, the nephew of

| aa Ss nc ml iii easiest |

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

Alexzander’s fiercest rival was then in residence at the
court of Urbino and was forced to flee. He found refuge
at at the court of the French king Louis XII at Lyons,
and there was made a knight of the order of St. Mi-
chael. Duke Guidobaldo, who enjoyed the protection
of the Borgias, was perhaps miffed at the idea of his
thirteen uyear old nephew receiving such an honor,and
offered his dip-lomatic services to the Englishking in
excvhange for election to the Order of the Garter.

In 1504 , Pope Alexasnder died, and his old rival
was elected Pope Julius II. At hsi accession, Julius was
made to promise that he would not practice the nepot-
ism for which his predecessor was infamous, and
swore not to grant papal territories to bearers of his
family name. His cousin Duke Guidobaldo was in the
meantime faced with the prospect not only of papal dis-
favor, but death without an heir. Bullied by Julius,

1 PLP Mein
Guidobaldo Jeet of Urbino upon Guyidobaldo's
death in 1508. The Pope had cleverly found a way
around the scriptures of his oath.

(Cont'd.)

Panel of St. George slaying the dragon

15
