The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983 9

R.E.M. Meets the Beat

By ANDREW WILSON

The English Beat and R.E.M. are as
musically distant as Chapel Hill is from
Duke — a hop, skip, and a beat away.
The Beat, a British tu-tone ska band,
meshed with the uncategorizable, almost
mystical sound of the Athens, Ga.-based
R.E.M. to perform an enthralling three-
hour concert at Chapel Hill’s intimate
Memorial Hall last Sunday evening. No
one was disappointed, least of all the
bands.
Enthusiasm reigned supreme, especially
during the Beat’s performance. The
stage energy could be measured in
kilowatts. Ranking Roger, the hyperac-
tive vocal toaster and incidental percus-
sionist, truly exuded Beat happiness.
Dave Wakeling on vocals and guitar, and
Saxa, who provides the ranting sax riffs
which make Beat music unmistakable,
carried the show with their smiles (a rare

U2 Juggles

By JOHNNY EDWARDS

U2 is the sort of band that seemed
destined to come out of violence-rid-
den Ireland: tense and passionate, with
an edge as sharp as that of the promi-
nent English bands. Their music has
not changed dramatically since their
career began; it is the subject matter of
that music which has chaanged, and
that subject matter makes War their
best album ,

As noted by many reviews of Oc-
tober (their second album), U2 verged
on being a musically trivial band, be-
cause their lyrics concerned consis-
tently superficial subjects. It looked as
though U2 would waste their uniquely
triumphant sound; they lacked pur-
pose. Even their concerts tended to
suffer because of a suspected over-

thing at a rock concert).

Smiling, jittering, jabbering, and
generally jamming are the Beat’s
trademarks along with a full and varied
sound. Their brand of ska wavers be-
tween new wave reggae and big-band
funk (if you can imagine such things).
Their message, often overlooked or vei-
led by especially catchy cockney, is both
neo-romantic and socio-politically pes-

Music

simistic (no, the two are not mutually
exclusive). The Beat’s best trait by far,
however, is telling a sad story happily.
Their version of Smoky Robinson’s
“Tears of a Clown” is case in point. At
other times, and the best of times, they
combine reggae-like spiritualism and
new wave non-sensibility, as in “Spar
Wid Me” (“Spar wid me / cho Lord a man
should always feel free / Because de rat

Passion, Top 10

satisfaction with stardom.

U2 has apparently taken this criti-
cism to heart and turned out the album
everyone expected of them. War fo-
cuses on the horrors of violence,
avoiding politics for the most part and
focusing on the sheer emotional as-
pects.of violence, death, and love, cre-
ating an albumn with which any lis-
tener can identify. Who can argue
against the horrible effects of vio-
lence? As always, U2 shows their be-
lief that the passion of love makes life
worthwhile.

However, it takes the contrast of
this love with the scenes of violence on
War to give this idea substance. Where
before the view seemed dangerously
close to juvenile, it now takes on
maturity gained through the inclusion
of real world violence. This maturity,

fused with the ferocity of their music,
makes one feel almost elitist trying to
criticize the lyrical content for a lack of
sophistication.

The band makes no drastic musical
changes in War. The music still
weaves sparse, seemingly simplistic
instrumentation through the band’s
tightness and excellent production.
The Edge still uses harmonies, echo,
and open chords to grand effect; Adam
Clayton anchors the band while Larry
Mullen creates complex rhythms; and
Bono continues on his way to becom-
ing an interpretive singer in the class of
Roger Daltrey, with whom he shares
incredible voice control and an ability
to improvise without losing himself in
the music.

U2 is going places with War,
namely into the top ten if the WROQ

he get a bend up by de cat”) or “Jeanette”
(“When I met Jeanette, / substitute
Ronette, she said, ‘Will you remember?’
/ I said I could never forget her au
naturalette’’).

What is truly impressive about the
Beat is the way they excite themselves
and their audience to a fever pitch while
maintaining professionalism and sound
quality commensurate with their fine re-
cordings.

R.E.M needs no comment (since
most who weren’t watching MTV or
writing term papers know them from
their visit last term) except that Michael
Stipe was at his innocently contorted
best. The lyrics remained a mystery
(probaby on purpose), but they per-
formed some fine new songs and gener-
ated a lot of good will. What more can
you ask for?

play list is any indication. Their first
album seemed perfect for the hard
rock multitiudes, but U2 has a differ-
ence. They have the ability character-
istic of great bands to walk the edge be-
tween passion and banality without
slipping. It is a thin line.

Carrasco Revives Garage Band Spirit

By JONATHAN GLANCE

American rock and roll in the mid-
sixties was in a confused state — the
rebellion of the fifties (Elvis and the
KiHer) was gone, the rebellion and
cosmic consciousness of the
Psychedelic movement had not yet ar-
rived, and pop was thrown upon the
happy shores of the Venture’s brand of
democracy. Every garage in every
town spawned a band, and while the
results were often abysmal, there were
some groups which had their one hit
before they disappeared. In pre-Beat-
lemania days, you didn’t have to be re-
ally talented to be great; all you needed
was the spirit of adolescent
amateurism and a sense of humor. Ina
time where the Kingsmen, ? and the
Mysterians, and Sam the Sham and the
Pharoahs could all hit upon instant
classics through some quirk of blind
luck (their songs were, respectively,

“Louie, Louie,” “96 Tears,” and
“Woolie Bullie”), it was possible for

any band to hope for a hit. The exuber-
ance and sheer joy of this more inno-
cent age has left its mark on one of the
coolest bands from Austin, Texas —
Joe “King” Carrasco and the Crowns.
His latest LP, aptly entitled Party
Weekend,, aims for the true garage
band spirit.

The quintessential Carrasco sound
is based on the cheesy Tex-Mex Far-
fisa organ of Kris Cummings, who’s
appeared on all four albums Carrasco
and the Crowns have released. Add a
snappy bass and drum and intermittent
guitar strums and licks, and you’ve got
the sound of a boss bar band that twists
and jumps with the best. The best part
of the whole package, though, is Joe’s
voice, that comes across as that of a
natural-borm rube who wants to have a
“goood tahm” and who hiply hints at
dark secrets of the psyche (Buddy
Holly on peyote buttons?). The

paradox of naivete and wildness adds
some tension and heat to the party, but
not enough to disrupt the dancers. Car-
rasco has been quoted as saying that
his major influence was the theme
song from The Munsters, and that “96
Tears” was the most perfect song ever
written — what else do you need to
say?

Party Weekend is a more solid LF
than their last one (Synapse Gap), but
is perhaps moving towards a more
polished sound than previous records.
While there are still plenty of the frene-
tic rockers which the band does best,
generally either based on The Sir
Douglas Quintet’s “She’s About a
Mover” or ? and The Mysterians, there
are some slower numbers as well.
These moodier songs are more Mexi-
can than Texan in sound (e.g. the re-
make of “Buena” from an earlier
album), and there’s even a couple of
calypso/reggae songs to extend the
tropical American tone. This album

does have a problem in that it is
perhaps a bit over-produced; I person-
ally favor the rougher sound of his ear-
lier LPs, such as Party Safari. At
times the new sound loses some of the
essential force and power that the band
displays in concert, which is a shame.
With the resurgence in garage bands
today, it would seem that the
“sweetened” mix, with extra percus-
sion and even an occasional synthe-
sizer (!) would not be needed to get air-
play for the band. Outside of this
minor complaint, though I would
highly recomment this album as an ad-
dition to anyone’s record collection.
With summer coming up, you know,
you're going to need some albums like
this one-to listen to while you’re frying
in the sun or driving around with all the
windows down. On second thought,
maybe you'd better get the tape instead
of the LP. In the spirit of all truly great
“trash rock,” Party Weekend is music
to haye fun by.

