Computers Abound on Campuses

The long-anticipated campus com-
puter revolution has finally begun to
reach students.

Computers have been nosing into
college libraries and offices for years
now, and they have been increasingly
available to students on many cam-
puses. But just last spring, Harvard stu-
dents still caught administrators un-
aware when they lugged word proces-
sors into class to take finals. Harvard
administrators, like counterparts around
the country, had to scramble to draw up
ways of regulating student personal
computer use, which is quickly outstrip-
ping the centralized computer centers
becoming common at Harvard.

Indeed, with falling microcomputer
costs, more and. better software availa-
ble, and lighter, more streamlined hard-
ware on the market, 1983 promises to be
the year in which micros will begin to
change substantially the way students
go to college.

“At the risk of being trite, the per-
sonal computer will become as much a
part of life as the telephone, if not more
so,” predicts Bruce Schimming, IBM’s
education industry administrator.

Students are already using computer
work stations and their own units to play
remote games, carry on electronic con-
versations, send jokes, and even ar-
range dates as well as do their work in
new ways.

Iowa State’s Sutton does his home-
work on the microcomputer his fraterni-

ty — Delta Tau Delta — purchased for
its members to use for personal as well
as fraternity business.

“We use it for just about anything
you can imagine,” Sutton boasts. “By
spending eight hours of work at the
computer, I save 40 hours of study time.
And when it comes to doing budget and
financial reports for the fraternity, I can
do in 20 minutes what used to take days
to do manually.”

Like many other microcomputers,
Delta Tau Delta’s is connected through
regular telephone lines to the universi-
ty’s main computer, as well as to other
national computer networks and data
bases, allowing the fraternity members
to comunicate with other computers
across campus or across the nation.

Now, virtually every college re-
quires students to take “computer liter-
acy” courses. Most schools now have
campus computing centers, and many
are installing micros in dorms, libraries,
classrooms, and fraternity houses.

Marquette, for instance, is linking
dorm computers to the school’s two
main computers.

Duke University has installed some
200 IBM Personal Computers in resi-
dence halls and other buildings around
campus to give students “unlimited ac-
cess to computers.”

Baylor, North Carolina State, Notre
Dame, and Illinois State, among many
others, are also installing dorm compu-
ters.

Students do use them. The Univer-
sity of Oregon has to keep its 15 dorm
computer stations open 24-hours-a-day
to meet demand.

But the idea of making computers
available only in certain areas — com-
puter centers, dorm stations, or even in
fraternity houses — is fast becoming a
thing of the past.

Instead, observers say, there will
soon be a computer for every student.
And colleges will become “wired” so
that personal computers can be plugged
in and used virtually everywhere on
campus.

“In the last five years the number of
computer terminals on campus has gone
from under 400 to nearly 1000,” says
Dartmouth computer center Director
William Arms, “and we expect that to
increase to over 4000 within the next
five years.”

Dartmouth, like many other
schools, is “getting away from the idea
of clustering computers together, and
moving towards the idea that each indi-
vidual should have his or her own com-
puter in their dorm or office.”

“And when that happens,” says
IBM’s Schimming, “when you sudden-
ly go to a situation where a student can
be sitting at a keyboard of his or her
own, not just spending four hours per
week on a computer at the library or
computer center, then you’re going to
see some dramatic differences in the
way things are done.”

In a joint experiment with IBM,

Carnegie-Mellon is one of the front-run-
ners in the race to become the nation’s
first “wired campus.” CMU freshmen
will be required to buy their own com-
puters next fall at an estimated cost of
$750 per year, in addition to their annu-
al $10,000 tuition.

“By 1985, our goal is to build a net-
work of 7500 personal computers on
campus,” says CMU spokesman Don
Hale. “Each student will purchase his or
her own computer and take it with them
when they leave.”

Drexel University, too, will require
all entering freshmen to buy their own
computers next year.

“A kid who comes to us next year,”
explains Bernard Sagik, Drexel Vice
President of Academic Affairs, “will
graduate in 1988, and will be working in
a world that will be totally involved in
information and computer technology.
It would be an injustice to deny our stu-
dents the opportunity to learn how to use
this new technology.

Nevertheless, a National Assess-
ment of Education Programs study last
year warned that unless more was done
to educate students about computers, as
many as two million high school gradu-
ates would be without the essential
skills necessary for employment in the
“information society” of the 1990s.

But not everyone is convinced com-
puter literacy should be ranked with
reading, writing and arithmetic as one
of education’s basic aims.

California Group Combats

SAN FRANCISCO, CA (CPS)—Mi-
crocomputer companies are duping
many schools and colleges into buying
computers that are overpowered and
overpriced for classroom needs, says a
California group formed to combat what
it calls “computer overkill.”

The group says educators are conse-
quently creating a giant classroom white
elephant.

The San Francisco-based Commit-
tee on Basic Skills Education, which
bills itself as a citizens’ action group of
educators and industry experts, says it is
out to stop the ““bandwagon effect’ be-
ing promulgated by the microcomputer
industry to put costly general purpose
computers into virtually every Amer-
ican classroom.”

“We’re not anti-tech or anti-com-
puter in the schools,” says committee
spokesman Terry Burke. “What we’re
against are high-priced, personal com-
puters and all the peripheral equipment
being pushed on the schools when less-
costly dedicated computers can do the

job.”
Computer companies often tell
schools it is vital for their students to be-
come “computer literate,” and then sell
the schools general-purpose microcom-
puters to do the job, although cheaper
“dedicated computers” — those de-
signed to a set number of jobs — would
do just as well, Burke says.

Schools end up stressing computer
literacy at the expense of basic skills
like reading and writing, Burke adds.

Apple Computers Inc., for exam-
ple, often gives schools free computers,
but the tack, claims committee founder
Dr. Daniel Peck, an education professor
at San Francisco State, is “nothing but a
sales gimmick.”

“If they can get the schools hooked
on Apple computers, they can hook the
home market simultaneously ,” Peck as-
serts. Apple would also enjoy consider-
able sales in computer attachments and
software.

But Peck asks, “Will the Apple of
today become the language lab of to-
morrow? I mean, will it become obso-

‘Computer Overkill’

lete and unused like the million-dollar
language labs a lot of schools jumped in
and built?”

Apple, for one doesn’t think so.

“Computers are a clearly-demon-
strated aid to a more effective educa-
tion,” Apple spokesman Stan De-
Vaughn says. “Our position is that
we’re not educators, and we don’t pur-
port to be. But we do manufacture a tool
that is of enormous use in an educational
setting.

DeVaughn dismisses most of the
committee’s points, noting it was co-
founded by the president of a “dedicat-
ed” computer manufacturer, “which
should tell you a lot about their goals.”

“T just don’t think it’s necessary for
everybody to need to know how to as-
semble and program a computer,” says
Robert Kelman, Colorado State’s com-
puter science chief. “You don’t have to
know how a television set works to turn
it on and watch a program, and you
don’t have to know how to program a
computer to keep recipes and balance

your checkbook on one.”

Last spring, moreover, the Commit-
tee on Basic Skills Education, a Califor-
nia-based consumer group, warned that
many colleges and high schools were
being “oversold” on microcomputers.

While these are legitimate needs for
personal computers, the group advises,
colleges should guard against “com-
puter overkill and the ‘bandwagon ef-

fect’ being promulgated by the micro-

computer industry to put costly general
purpose computers into virtually every
American classroom.”

Likewise, Cleveland State educa-
tion professor John Gallagher cautions,
“the use of microcomputers can only by
justified if they are doing something
which cannot be accomplished by other
means. In some instances, I have seen
teachers use a $2000 computer to teach
a low level of drill-type learning that
could be accomplished with a $5 pack of
flash cards.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
