Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Home Brew: More Liquor For Less Money

By IDA PHILLIPS

The next time you fork out three dollars for a six of
Bud, you should feel guilty. Not because you are con-
tributing to the deterioration of your brain, but because
you could be enjoying 52 beers for only eight dollars.
Home beermaking is the newest pastime brewing, for it
yields a lot of suds for a little money.

Junior Jeff Carter is one of several students creating
home brew. Carter swears that the best beer he ever swil-
led was homemade. It must have made a lasting impres-
sion on his taste buds, for he began researching beer
making soon after that first taste.

Carter claims “the hardest part of making my own
beer was finding the place to buy the stuff.” The place
turned out to be Alternative Beverages, a Charlotte store
in the Mini Mart tradition. Here Carter was instructed in
the art of making beer and supplied with the “stuff.”

Creating your own beer requires only a few items.
The essential ingredients include hopped malt extract,
sugar, yeast, and water. The basic recipe for creating
homemade suds is simple and involves about three hours
of labor.

First, boil all the ingredients except yeast in a large
pot. After transferring this “wort” to a primary fermen-
tor, add the yeast. Put this mixture into the main fermen-
tor (Carter uses a small-lidded trash can) which is
equipped with a fermentation lock. This device allows
air to escape the fermentor but allows none to enter the
container. After about ten days, siphon the beer into bot-
tles, cap them, and leave them unopened for a month or
‘as long as you can hold out.

Although these directions are simple, certain errors
can ruin the product. “The first batch you make will
probably be terrible, because it really involves trial and
error,” Carter said. He stresses the cleanliness needed in
brewing beer, because “that is the easiest way to screw
up the beer,” he said. To keep the beer germ-free, the
bottles should be sterilized in bleach before use. Carter

Peggy Pierotti

Jeff Carter and his home brew

also warns against putting too much sugar in the bottles,
which could cause them to explode.

Supposing the directions are carefully followed,
what does the product taste like? Carter describes his
first batch as tasting like “something between beer and
wine.” One of the advantages to home brewing is that
you can make beer according to your own tastes. Carter
is taken with the fact that “you can make beer you can’t
buy in a store” because recipes are available for every
type of beer.

One note about taste: homemade beer usually has a
higher alcohol content than commercial beer. Most
beers sold in stores are three to four percent alcohol by
volume, whereas homemade beer can be made with up

to 10 percent alcohol by volume.

Carter believes that home-brewed beer can make a
difference in one’s drinking habits. “If you drink a lot of
homemade beer you get really used to it. So when you go
to one of the parties around here the beer tastes really
watery.” He also noted that “when you can have 50 bot-
tles for $7 it’s hard to go to the store and buy six bottles
for $3.”

The advantages to home beermaking have given
Carter renewed appreciation of the beverage. He consid-
ers beermaking to be a beneficial hobby. “You get to
drink the fruits of your labor. I plan to keep making beer
continually until graduation because once you perfect it,
you can’t beat it.”

—Films

By MATT MORRIS
Rear Window (1954) Produced and
directed by Alfred Hitchcock. Starring
Jimmy Stewart, Grace Kelly, Thelma
Ritter and big bad Raymond Burr. Rat-
ing **** (of course).

Go out of your way to see Rear
Window playing at SouthPark. This
Alfred Hitchcock masterpiece is alter-
nately the master’s most cinematic and
surprisingly compassionate film.

Coming from a director such as
Hitchcock, a film unravelling with
boom shots, process screens, geomet-

ric space and humanity is a tall order.

Rear Window Reveals Hitchcock’s Brilliance

&

couple; and, of course, the affection-
ately violent wife killer. Yet thege
aren't just movie characters Hitchcock
reveals. They are real, human beings,
and because the audience watches the
goings-on, it too has a “room with a
view,” a place to examine itself.

' At the outset no one in the film un-
derstands the others — each character
is locked in a mental room of his emo-
tions. The real drama is not whether
the bad guy will be apprehended, but
whether anyone will be able to com-
municate, make the connection be-
tween rooms, buildings, and — ulti-
mately... Lives.

A typically brilliant Hitchcock film
(North by ‘Northwest, for example)
exhilarates and exhausts the viewer
with its mathematic progression; the
film is calculated to entertain, and it
does. Hitchcock knew all the tricks in
the book — when pressed against a
wall, he could still play with his cam-
era and dazzle the objective mind.
And sure enough, with Rear Win-
dow, the techniques are all there,
placed securely in a spicy Hitchcoc-

(3-2 7! mmy Stewart) and his nigh soci-
ety girlfriend (Grace Kelly) witness a
murder in a building across from his
apartment, while gazing at various ec-

‘centricities of 1954 (and 1983 as well)

America through his camera. The key
to remember here is that because
Stewart’s leg is broken, he must lie ina
single room all day (and throughout
the entire film). In the hands of another
director, a one-room movie would be
strictly dullsville (to wit, Das Boot).

knew all the tricks. Sure it’s voyeuris-
tic — Hitchcock even admitted that
through Rear Window he fulfilled a
personal fantasy, but a soul starts
growing as the movie unreels. The
people Stewart uses his Canon to
watch (revealed to us through zap-me
camera angles) are each touching com-
ments on humanity. There’s a Miss
Lonelyhearts; a Miss “Torso” (draw
your own conclusion); a childless
couple who pour all their affection ona

dog a a violently affectionate newlywed —- -

loneliness to,be legal.

And in the end, that’s what Rear
Window is about — you and me. The
film ends on an apparently happy note,
but Hitchcock has made his point, and
it won’t go away, no matter how many

“I love you’s” go by: can man be alone
with his irrationality, his leadings, his
loves? Jimmy Stewart says during the
film, “I wonder it it’s moral for me to
watch people doing the private, crazy.
things they do.” More importantly,
Hitchcock wonders if it’s moral for

-€F

kian plot. A reporter with a broken leg

But, —as_said_before, Hitchcock.

WV eh WEE

