Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian 3

Evaluation Issue Undecided After Three Terms

By WAYNE MAGRUDER

Three terms have passed, and David-
son College still lacks a standard faculty
evaluation form recognized. by the ad-
ministration and used consistently by the
entire faculty. However, most faculty
members distributed some type of evalu-
ation form at the end of last term.

Two forms were available, one de-
signed by the Professional Affairs Com-
mittee (PAC) and the other by the SGA.
Some faculty members chose to write
their own forms as it better suited their
particular style of course analysis.

According to the SGA, 25 professors

used the SGA form, while 34 used either

a form of their own or the PAC form.

Since the faculty decided in the
spring of 1983 to discontinue using the
Illinois Course Evaluation System
(ICES), there has been no faculty evalua-
tion.

In response to this the SGA formed a
Faculty Evaluation Committee (FEC) in
the spring of 1983. Its long-term goal is
“to provide a mechanism by which the
student has more influence in the deci-
sion to tenure a teacher.”

The PAC has met with Vice-presi-
dent for Academic Affairs and Dean of
the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann,
but he “refused to accept the PAC evalu-
ation form due to lack of available statis-
tical data,” according to the FEC. The
faculty, however, has expressed its con-
cern that tabulated results are often mis-
interpreted. The FEC, therefore, wished
to “arbitrate between the administration
and faculty to resolve the issue.”

In addition, the SGA put together a
form of its own which draws a com-
promise between the wishes of the ad-
ministration and the wishes of the facul-
ty. They used 20 objective questions

from the ICES, and they provided oppor-
tunity for longer prose answers to more
subjective questions. Results of that
form will be sent to the professors with
tabulated averages of each of the 20 ob-
jective questions.

SGA President Hunter Monroe was
pleased with the SGA’s efforts to provide
students an opportunity to evaluate their
professors.

“Because we were doing our own
form independently, that encouraged
faculty to use some form of evaluation. I
think it sent a message across in a con-
structive way that students want to par-
ticipate in evaluating faculty members,”
Monroe said.

Some faculty members strongly
favor evaluations in principle as long as
teaching improvement is the primary
aim. English Professor Cynthia Lewis
said that some experimental or complex

courses require constant evaluation.
Also, professors without tenure need of-
ficial evaluations by students as evidence
of their progress and effectiveness.

Biology professor Cynthia Grant em-
phasized that it is wrong to expect stu-
dents to respond intelligently to a form
before they have taken the exam or have
seen their final grade. The exam often
constitutes one quarter of the course
grade. She also objects to the forms
being filled out on the last day of classes
when students are in the midst of intense
review and pressure.

Another contested point concerning a
standard evaluation form is its use as a
means for determining faculty pay
raises, merit, rank, and tenure. Some
professors see this as inevitable and not
so objectionable, while others felt this
put too emphasis on evaluations hur-
riedly filled out.

Stockwell Denounces Covert CIA Operations

By TED WILSON

“The American public is being de-
ceived,” proclaimed former CIA agent
John Stockwell, who spoke on “The CIA
in Search of Enemies,” in the 900 Room
last Thursday.

Pointing out several instances in
which the American public has not been
told the truth by the government,
Stockwell harshly denounced the covert
actions of the Central Intelligence
Agency and its way of doing business.

“Lies [often] originate in the CIA,”
he said. For example, “Their objective
was to run the war [in Angola] and to
convince people that there was a com-
munist plot in Angola though we had ac-
tually escalated the entire thing [there]
and lied to Congress.”

Stockwell said that on various inter-
national assignments, “one-third of my
staff was in charge of writing prop-
aganda” which was relayed to America.

Stockwell, after attending the Uni-
versity of Texas, became a marine and
was involved in Vietnam until 1975. He
was offered a job with the CIA and eve-
ntually became an advisor to the National
Security Council. He left the CIA be-

cause of disagreements with the agency.
In 1978, he published his first book con-
demning the CIA and was consequently
sued by the U.S. government. As a re-
sult, he has been under censorship with
his writings. Stockwell is the highest
ranking CIA case officer to go public
with his condemnation of the agency.
“The CIA was profoundly negative in
my experience,” he said. As a result of
the hundreds of covert actions by the

agency, “people suffer and die” and na-
tions’ order is disrupted. “Covert actions
get us into wars . . .” he said. “We’ve
fought with nations [like Angola] that did
not want to be our enemies.”

Stockwell said that Americans are
brought up to believe that it is the “other
guys” performing the belligerent, cruel
acts throughout the world, “‘yet we are
doing them, too,” he said. For example,
the Public Safety Program entailed
American officers “teaching Latin
American police forces how to torture.”
He emphasized that the U.S. is involved
in bombings, riots, assassinations, and
methods of destabilizing countries in
areas such as China, Guatemala, Iran,
Cuba, the Congo, Guijana, Vietnam,
and Chile. However, “there is a point of
secrecy to keep the American public and
Congress from knowing the truth.”

According to Stockwell, the CIA has
also used Americans as guinea pigs.
They have executed disease experiments
in California and in Long Island to deter-
mine how the area would react to the
epidemic.

Stockwell, who is in his mid-forties,
said that during his career as aCIA agent,
“morally, I never changed” but he was
forced to do things that were against his

Wasted Time

(Continued from page !)

vantage in hours gained by lab courses.
The only importance of the credit-hours
system lay in computing grade point av-
erages according to hours.

“The advantages of semesters as out-
lined by Maloney’s committee [the origi-
nal proposal] have disappeared, and I
wonder if the system remains valid,” said
biology professor John Williamson in an
interview in the November 11 issue of
The Davidsonian.

Another factor was the complexity of
the administrative and structural change
to semesters. The fact that the trimester
system works smoothly now provides a
powerful argument in its favor. Adminis-
trators estimated that three or four years

would be necessary to straighten out a
new system.

A third difference was the weight of
student opinion. During the 1982 meet-
ing, SGA president Tim Johnston pre-
sented the results of a student referendum
heavily in favor of trimesters. But
Johnston dismissed the referendum’s
validity as uninformed and defended
semesters at the meeting.

Biology professor David Grant said
in the Special Edition of The Davidso-
nian that “student opinion was largely re-
moved from faculty consideration by the
manner in which that ‘student opinion’
was presented at the crucial faculty meet-
ing,”

In contrast, current SGA President
Hunter Monroe presented a pro-trimes-
ters petition containing 793 signatures,
well over half the student body. Jackson
mentioned this in his speech during the
meeting. “Student opinion was well rep-
resented,” classics professor Mark
Davies said.

Monroe said that “we [students]
weren’t deciding, but we had a voice.”
He added that the Dec. 2 special edition
of The Davidsonian helped in raising stu-
dent awareness of the issue.

Reported by David McGee, David Re-
_ snik, and.Ann Meador

morals. He said that he often had to re-
cruit natives in such countries as South
Africa to be CIA agents. He felt he may
have “stimulated plots that got people
sentenced to death” when they were dis-
covered by their government. Stockwell
said that he could rationalize his actions
for a while as the CIA kept reminding the
agents that they were “saving the world
from communism.”

Stockwell said that in places like
Nicaragua, the CIA agents would con-
vince the recruits that the Americans
were protecting the citizens, hence they
got knowledge from them. In effect,
“they were actually planning a war
against the country.”

Stockwell recalled some of the ab-
surd instances he noticed in the business.
He said that at a National Security Coun-
cit meeting, “Henry Kissinger pouted
and turned his back away from the other
members” when he couldn’t sit in his fa-
vorite chair. He said that several mem-
bers were apt to fall asleep in the meet-
ing.

Stockwell believes that “the U.S.
may be moving towards another Vietnam
and is on the brink of war in Nicaragua.”
However, he said that the public “should
not give up hope.” He said “through vote
and political action we can have [such
militaristic action] stopped.” He added
that we ‘‘must reject the paranoia and
have guts.”

He suggested that citizens get to-
gether with local TV stations to discuss
the issues of concern, and believes that
marches, such as the one on November
12 in Washington, D.C., are a good idea.
Stockwell encourages citizens to “vote
down Reagan,” who he feels is too
militaristic. He did not, however, advo-
cate draft evasion, saying that “it would
be a felony for me to tell you not to [com-
ply with] the draft.” He said that it is im-
portant that Americans “think and read
intelligently” and not to believe every-
thing he reads.

Stockwell, after his one-sided case
against the CIA, said that “if we can’t
solve the world’s S problems peaceiull
