8 Friday, September 23, 1983/The Davidsonian

Steve Bernhardt runs for the ball against WCU defenders

Soccer Defeats WCU

By BOYD BLACKBURN
The Davidson soccer team walked
away with their second win of the season
on Saturday, a 4-1 victory over Western
Carolina. .
After building a 3-0 lead in the first

— steve ete aad ate eo ae

ier Wrar ait CAC aE, CAPO ”
the Wildcats sat on their haunches and let
a weak WCU team carry the play.
Davidson broke WCU’s defense with
constant pressure thirty minutes into the
game. Mike Lufkin fed an open Brian
Shockley who hit the ball past a sliding
keeper for his first goal of the season.
Senior tri-captain Peter Burr “fol-
lowed the first Davidson goal with a vol-
ley into the corner of the net, and Steve
Bernhardt rounded out the first half scor-

Field Hockey

RecordShows
Improvement

By PAM HARMANN

After three matches, Coach Patty
Daley notes an improvement in the play
of the Women’s field hockey team. Their
most recent match took place at David-
son on Monday, a 0-0 tie with High
Point.

The game, which included two ten-
minute overtime periods, was slightly
violent, as Davidson committed 104
fouls and High Point 91. Davidson had
only three shots on goal while High Point
had four. However, Daley felt that the
defense played much better than in previ-
ous games.

Saturday’s scrimmage versus James
Madison University resulted in an 8-0
loss. The score is no indication of how
well the Davidson women actually did
play against this nationally-ranked team.
Sophomore goalie Binney Jannetta
played an exceptional game with 26
saves. She was aided by Freshman
sweeper Heather McKee. Daley was
pleased that Davidson played with good
control and fewer fouls, which was one
of their goals going into the game.

In their opening game last Thursday

wo

eee
co

ing when he ran the ball in after the oppo-
nent’s keeper mishandled Wallis Good-
man’s blast.

Shockley, along with fellow
freshmen Steve Stith, Chris Jones, and
keeper Jim Kelly, played an excellent
= 2face. among the. ten freshmen,
who made the varsity team. Coach Char-
lie Slagle is hoping they will give the
team depth and a more potent scoring at-
tack.

The second half featured Stith’s ag-
gressive play and Bill Coxhead’s unas-
sisted goal late in the game.

This weekend Davidson will play a
two day tournament at Hampden-Syd-
ney which they won. last year.
Wildcatg’ overall record is now 2-1.

The

By John Breidenstine

against Wake Forest, Davidson lost 1-0.
Daley explains, “We were very nervous
and just didn’t play our game.” The fact
that there were 65 fouls this game did not
make Coach too happy either.

After these first three games Daley
feels, ‘“We’re improving in many facets
and that’s exactly what I’m looking for
right now. Our improvements are in our
ball control, passing, attack circle play,
and some technical defensive things. We
want to win but mostly we want to im-
prove.”

The team’s next game is on Tuesday,
Sept. 27, -at Catawba College. This

‘leaves six days between games for prac-

tice, training, and of course, more im-
provement.

By Peggy Pierotti

Blue Devils Outrun ’Cats

Ivey takes individual honors

By RAND HARTSELL

Frank Ivey, how do you spell relief?
W-I-N-A-R-A-C-E. Senior cross coun-
try captain Frank Ivey easily pulled away
from Duke runner Phil Woodyerd to win
the opening meet ot the “Cats cross coun-
try season on Saturday, September 17.

Ivey settled into the lead pack early in
the race, forged into the lead with
Woodyerd at about three miles, and, fi-
nally, left the Senior Buke harrier in his
wake with 3/4 of a mile remaining in the
5.25 mile race. Ivey never felt pushed
during the race.

“After Woodyerd and I broke away
from everyone, I played games with him.
Sometimes I’d run beside him, try to
scare him into thinking I was going to
pass him. But then I'd drop back trying to
make him think I was tiring,” Ivey said.

Ivey, noting Woodyerd’ s breathing
‘was labored, used nis tactics to test’ the
Duke runner.

“On the long hill (a 1/4 mile incline
just before the four mile mark) he
[Woodyerd] fell off the pace and |
ope ied up a lead. I let him catch me at the
top,” recounted Ivey. On the ensuing
down-hill Woodyerd could not stay with
Ivey, who kept his lead the rest of the
way eventually building a 15 second
cushion at the finish chute.

Duke had an easier time winning the
team competition than Ivey had with his
individual efforts. To no one’s surprise,
the Blue Devils soundly defeated the
‘Cats 21-40, taking second through fifth
and seventh place. Davidson on the other
hand had no front runners to speak of
with the exception of freshman Greg
Foreman’s pleasantly surprising debut at

sixth place. Rounding out Davidson’s
scoring positions were Jim Rogers 12th,
Bob Watkins 13th, Brian Zielinski 14th.
Duke’s top five spread (the time
elapsed between the first and fifth win-
ner) was | minute 32 seconds. Compara-
tively, Davidson’s spread was a full mi-
nute more than Duke’s. The discrepancy
between the teams is even more apparent
upon examination of the top eight
spreads for both teams. Duke’s top eight
differential was 1:45; the ‘Cats recorded
a spread of 3:36. Runners not scoring for
Davidson were Frank Hague 16th,
Taylor Simpson 18th, Rand Hartsell
19th, Bob Tate 20th, Richard Cloudt
21st, Jim Trotter 23rd, Jim Vanderzee
24th, Julian Wright 26th, Andy Myers
27th and Dan Garlington 28th. Freshman
Trey Jammes was unable to finish the
race because of muscle tightness and
hamstring cramps.
Tee, tage Cats foce nemesis,

Lynchburg College, Emory University,
Roanoke College and a Wake Forest
team. Davidson should fare better
against more comparable competition,
however, coach Sterling Martin is not
without criticism. “We need to get our
runners closer together.”

Regarding an earlier reference to
Ivey’s relief, the senior runner admitted
he felt some pressure on him going into
the race.

“I think a lot of people expect a lot of
me this year. I didn’t have much confi-
dence from my training, so my lack of
confidence accentuated the pressure I
felt.”

And some relief. Have you ever

thought of doing a Rolaids commercial
Frank?

_ Lady Runners Beat Duke

By JEAN COOPER

The year started off well for cross
country Coach Sterling Martin and his
women’s team as they emerged victori-
ous over Duke with a tight score of 27-
28. (The lowest score wins in cross coun-
try.)

Coach Martin was very pleased-with
how the women did in their first meet of
the year. On a difficult course with lots of
tight turns and steep hills. Junior Sarah
Patterson came in first on the Davidson
team with a time of 20:13. Captain Tam-
ara Foreman and senior Adelyn Lutz
soon filled in the next two positions with
times of 20:35 and 21:26.

This was Lutz’s first meet on the
Davidson cross country team, as she
spent her first three years on the tennis
team. Martin was very pleased to see her
do so well in her first meet, because her
time had a significant impact on the out-

come of the meet.

Davidson’s victory last Saturday was
much closer than those of the past two
years. “Duke has definitely improved,”
said Martin. The two fastest Duke
women in the meet were not on the team
in 1982.

Davidson’s team has a good balance
of age necessary for strong teams in the
future. Tamara Foreman and Adelyn
Lutz are the only seniors on the team.
Susie Dresser, Sarah Patterson, and Jean
Webb represent the junior class; Judy
Dalton is the only sophomore, and deter-
mined freshmen Ginger Sullivan, Alison
McEntire and Laeta Kalogridis also are
on the team. .

Davidson is scheduled to run against
Emory on Saturday at Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. The team has already demonstrat-
ed its strength this year, and with its op-
timistic coach it should have a fine sea-
son.
