Record
reviews

Of all the records I’ ve heard in the
past month or two, this LP must be
ranked as one of my favorites. King
Sunny Adé is the most popular per-
former of Juju music in Nigeria to-
day, and this album demonstrates the
calibre of music being produced in
countries beyond the realm of usual
Western attention. What, you may
well ask, is Juju music? The answer
is: an indigenous music of the Yoruba
people in Nigeria, which utilizes
western and African instruments in a
graceful pastiche of the familiar and
the unique. For example, electric gui-
tars figure quite prominently in the
Juju sound, but a different tuning sys-
tem is used, which lends an exotic
tone to the rhythmic strumming. Sun-
ny Adé has been something of an in-
novator in his genre—he was the first
musician to employ the steel guitar or
the synthesizer in his band. These in-
struments have taken on an African
character as well; the steel guitar
evokes the tropics in its detached slid-
ings, while the synthesizer, although

it mainlysexecutes fairly rudimentary

Swoops, is not incongruous at all -

among the talking drums and intricate
percussion.

The first impression that comes to
mind upon hearing The African Beats
is its similarity to reggae. This is,
however, dispelled upon further list-
ening—the two musics resemble each
other mainly in their Third World am-
bience, and in the relaxed groove
reached and maintained in the songs.
The African Beats do not stress the
bass line, but instead the rhythmic im-

‘petus is supplied by the talking

drums. This form of drum has a wide
melodic range (wide enough, in fact,
to allow for actual conversations: in
Yoruba between two drums). Several
of the songs, such as “Mo Beru Ag-
ba,” make use of complex call-and-
response patterns between the vocal-
ists and the talking drums. The result
is not, however, the raucous Diony-
sian flailings one often associates
with the music from Africa accom-
panying television documentaries.
Sunny Adé sings with a melodious,
restrained style that occasionally
sounds like he’s going to fall asleep
(as on the only song with lyrics in
English, “365 Is My Number/The
Message”). The African Beats are

King Sunny Adé JuJu Music
energetic in their playing, but it is
often the laid-back energy of the best
calypso bands, rather than the frantic
ferocity of a Voodoo ceremony. The
effect is hypnotic in the extreme, par-
ticularly on the opening song, “Ja
“unmi,” or on “Eje Nlo Gba Ara Mi.”

If you have never heard this record
played on WDAV’s Flipsides, I
strongly urge you to sample this end-
lessly flowing Nigerian party music.
Whether as background music or an
aural center of attention, it holds up to
repeated listenings.

aig ee
43

Looking for a chance to handle some
fine machinery? $22,000 bucks’ worth?

who know their craft. Learn in only min-
utes; make a fortune in no time.

Make it with us
and the sky’s the limit.

*.

graphic 7200 I to the hottest thing set-
ting, the Mergenthaler CRTronic.

See your Davidsonian Typesetting
Corps member, or call (704) 892-2000
ext. 148 today.

If you’ve got what it takes (agility,
speed, accuracy), you could be at the
controls of anything from a Compu-

Then check out The Davidsonian Type-
setting Corps. The training is superb.
Work with semi-professionals. People

The Few. The Proud. The Typesetters. .

THE DAAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983 ~~ B
