The new cadets of the Davidson Military College
filed into the long hall. Filed is a bit of a compliment; it
was really more of stumble. They seemed unused to the
stiff boots and commands required to maneuver 1000
people down a narrow corridor and through two small
doors.

“Ten-shut,” squeaked the former SGA president,
who that moming had learned he was to become cap-
tain of cadets. “We've called this meeting to discuss
the recent, ah, adjustment of the curriculum. Brantham
Bollings is here as a representative of the Board of
Trustees. He would like to say a few words, but is
primarily here to answer your questions. SPEAK
YOUR MIND, HO!”

“At ease. Men, I’ve been listening in the dorm —
um, barracks for a few hours today and really can’t see
why some of you are so upset,” began the business ex-
ecutive and part-time college trustee. “It’s really for
the best. We have only the interests of the College and
the students in mind.”

“We aren’t necessarily upset with the idea, Sir.
We’re just a little surprised. That’s all,” said a student
and one-time semi-activist. “We hadn’t heard anything
about his until our orders came through over break.
Why weren’t any students consulted about this before
you made the change?”

“Well, there weren’t any around, for one thing,”
said the mogul in his best I-just-don’t-see-how-I-can-
approve-this-loan voice. “We usually roll in for our
meetings after y’all finish your exams so as not to dis-
turb you with all our carryings-on. You wouldn’t want
us old folks walking through y’all’s frisbee games,
would you? By the time we got here all you young folks
were in Florida drinking beers, which proves what we
did was really necessary. I’m sure you’ ll learn to prefer
Brasso to Bud. I have. It really wouldn "}have mattered
much if you had been here anyway. The alumni wanted
this and so did we. The faculty may be a little put out by
the Boot Camp requirement, but hell, they can quit,
right?” he guffawed.

“I suppose they could, those who are left. But I
doubt they’d really like to,” said the student sheepish-
ly. “Did the Trustees find out how the faculty felt be-
fore they went ahead with the ‘readjustment’?”

“Let me set you straight on this—professors are
employees of the College and the College is the Trus-
tees. If we decide there’s a change to be made, we
make it. It’s as simple as that. They’re only interested

Opinions

DMI: a Fable

at Avi

in getting boring articles published in some dang-fool
rag nobody ever reads and usually doesn’t even have a
sports page. Why should we give a hang for what they
think? They don’t give a hoot about developing good
Southern gentlgmen. That’s what this institution is
really about. And now that we’ve shipped the women
back to Queens, y’all can concentrate on that instead of
having wild parties and being rude at basketball
games.”

“I’m still a little perplexed about the suddenness of
this decision. Isn’t there some way you could have let
the students know a little beforehand about what you
were thinking?” the student pressed.

“Well now, we both know what would have hap-
pened then. Y’all would have gotten yourselves all up-
set and mad, chewed about it for weeks in a dozen ‘ad-
visory committees,’ and then we would have gone

ahead and done it anyway. Isn’t it really better to have
it done all quickly and cleanly in an efficient operation?
God, somebody may even have filed suit, and it would
have gotten in the papers! Can you imagine anything
more terrible!

“Besides, there were a whole mess of factors went
into this decision that you wouldn’t have wanted to
bother with. Rather than have to discuss any of the bor-
ing details, we thought we’d just spring it as a total sur-
prise. I should think you’d be grateful to us for not bur-
dening y’all with that mess. This way, y’all can worry
about the studies and we’ ll worry about the College. At
least until you graduate and future studen—ah, | mean
cadets call-you for donations to the alumni fund. We’ll
value your input then.”

Jeff Mann ’84 is a Center/Journalism major

Sex Blind Admission Obligatory

Last week’s Davidsonian quoted Dr. John Grif-
fith, Director of Admissions, as saying, “Sex blind ad-
mission would be wrong.” I disagree with Dr. Griffith.
A sex blind admissions policy is not only right; it is
morally obligatory.

I submit that most people know in their hearts that it
is wrong to discriminate against a person on the basis of

sex, race, color, or sexual preference. It frequently ©

happens, however, that selfishness, fears, practicali-
ties and prudential matters get in the way of what the
heart knows to be the morally decent way to treat hu-
man beings. Thus, it is that economics, tradition, and
selfish concerns for diversity get in the way of embrac-

ing a non discriminatory admissions policy for David-
son.

Now when the pure voice of the heart is silenced by
prudential considerations, base motives or blind emo-
tion, human beings must tum to either power. and its

Bob Maydole is an Associate Professor of Phil-
osophy

sometimes violent consequences, or to reason as a way
to resolve their disputes. Since the heart has been si-
lenced at Davidson (temporarily, I hope), and because
I reject power and violence, I now offer a rational justi-
fication for why it is wrong to take the sex of a person
into account in admissions.

Before stating my argument it will be necessary for

me to briefly clarify what I mean by an existential at-

tribute. An attribute is holistic, nondeterministic and
teleological. In other words, it is holistic in the sense
that it applies to the whole individual and not merely to
a part. It is non-deterministic in the sense that the indi-
vidual freely chooses to have. or not to have the attrib-
ute. And, an existential attribute is teleological i in the
sense that it helps to define a person’s essence in terms
of willed goals, projects and values. An existential at-
tribute should be distinguished from a natural attribute,

which is $ particulate, deterministic, and mechanistic.

Being chatitable; kind dr understanding would be good
examples of an existential attribute. Being six feet tall,

caucasian, or female would be examples of natural at-
tributes.

My argument has five premises.

Premise |: A person ought to be treated with digni-
ty and respect.

Premise 2: One ought not do to what is tcompati-
ble with what one ought to do.

Premise 3: To treat a person with dignity and re-
spect is to treat that person only under the aspect of per-
sonhood.

Premise 4: To treat a person under the aspect of per-
sonhood is to treat that person only with respect to exis-
tential attributes.

Premise 5: A person’s biological sex is a natural
rather than an existential attribute.

It follows validly from these premises that one
ought not to treat persons on the basis of biological sex,
and thus that one ought not to have an admissions poli-
cy that evaluates persons on the basis of sex, even in

(Continued on next page)

THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983
