8 Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Riding Program Reflects Hoffman’s Philosophy

By PEGGY PIEROTTI

Over sixty-five students have partic1-
pated in Davidson's horseback riding
program this year, thirty-seven of whom
are currently enrolled. These riders rep-
resent all levels of ability, but program
director Nancy Hoffman notes that the
majority have had no previous instruc-
tion.

Riding courses at Davidson are of-
fered at four levels: beginner, for those
with no experience, advanced beginner.
for persons who can already walk, trot
and/or canter; intermediate. for riders
who can walk, trot and canter comforta-
bly: and advanced, for people interested
in competition and jumping. Jumping is
also begun at the intermediate level.

Classes are held once a week. and
eight lessons complete a Davidson P.E.
course. Hoffman teaches all classes, and
she also teaches privately to various stu-
dents, professors, and area residents.
Classes hold between three and five stu-
dents and are held at the stables on the
lake campus.

Each of the lessons takes approxi-
mately two hours. “When we arrive, we
first have to clean and saddle our as-
signed.” said one student. “It's really a
great way to get to know your horse be-
tore you have to ride him.”

After the students groom and tack the
horses, they are walked to the ring for an
hour of instruction. Dorothy Goehring.
an advanced beginner. says that “being
comfortable is a really good feeling. |
don't feel like I'm going to fall off all the
time anymore.” Each lesson advances
the student a little farther concentrating
on proper position and control.

After each lesson the riders cool off
and put away the horses. By assuming
this much care for the animals, students
always end up with favorites. One girl in
the intermediate class claims, “Milo is
the best: his gaits are so smooth.” Other
favorites cited are T.G. (That Girl).
Tilly, and Tex.

Originally from Chambersburg,
Pennsylvania. Hoffman has worked pro-
fessionally with horses for the past ten
years. She comments, however, “I've
been riding, training, and showing
horses since | could walk.” Hoffman has
been at Davidson since June, although
she taught previously at Wilson College
in Pennsylvania.

The program here reflects what
Hoffman calls her “horsemanship philos-
ophy.” She wants to develop a responsi-
ble riding facility which emphasizes the
care and proper treatment of horses as
well as riding skills. Hoffman is seeking

wee

Student jumping at the Lake Campus s

donations to improve the facility by add-
ing increased turnout areas for the horses
as well as a new, possibly indoor, ring
for shows and foul-weather riding. Un-
predictable weather is the program’s
greatest drawback, she said.

In addition to the facilities, next year
Hoffman plans to form an Intercollegiate
Riding Team to compete with such
schools as Queens College and the Uni-
versity of South Carolina. The switch to
semesters will help this team because

ad

tables

By Peggy Pierotti

most the competitions occur during
Davidson's spring break.

Hoffman plans to start an annual
show for all people who have ridden
throughout the year. “The show,” she
said, “would be a fun way to attract
people from all over.” Hoffman stresses
her desire to acquire serious, talented rid-
ers from the College and surrounding
area. especially since many of these
people are often unaware that the stable
even exists.

Deliverance Portrays Dueling Worlds

BY CRAIG DETWEILER
Deliverance (1972) Directed by John Boorman. Star-
ring Burt Reynolds. Jon Voight. Ned Beatty. Ronny
Cox. 109 minutes. ****

Based upon James Dickey’s novel. Deliverance
Is a harrowing adventure that leaves the participants
and the reader drastically effected. What begins as a

retreat from the working world evolves into a bitter

struggle for existence. Deliverance concerns con-
flicts between men and between their differing
societies.

Four Atlanta businessman take a white-water
canoeing trip on the Calhowassee River to escape the
drudgery of their daily nine-to-five jobs. Their retreat

opens innocently with some picking and grinning be-
tween a backwoods boy and one of the businessmen.
Their dueling banjos is a lilting celebration of the har-
mony between the backwoods and the city. Within
the beautiful natural landscape, all appears peaceful
and inviting. The four city dwellers expect the only
turbulence to occur between themselves and the
white-water rapids.

Deliverance begins as a classic struggle between

man and nature but evolves into a strategic battle

among men. The fight becomes more foreign against
native, city versus country, and civilian opposite sav-

age, The opponents, on . the. river represent. their -.--..-,

societies and systems. Individuals within this drama
are not to blame tor the fighting: it is contrasting cus-
toms, morals, and life-styles of the civilization and
nature that cause the turmoil.

_ By undercutting the vacationer’s and the viewer's
expectations, Deliverance administers its gripping
effect. Man against fellow man replaces man against
the elements. The inhabitants and rulers of the area
stalk the businessmen — foreigners in the Georgia
wilderness. Their innocent retreat becomes a relent-
less, haunting nightmare. Having witnessed the
canoers’ harmless intentions the viewer 1s shocked
when the backwoods villains enter the quiet: sur-
roundings. Torturing and humiliating the Atlantans,
the natives repulse and infuriate the viewer. Looking
objectively at the situation. one realizes that
“civilized” man would abuse these country bumpkins
if they entered his world. Although the means of re-
jection and violation may differ. people from all
societies attack those who enter their own private
sphere within the world. Because the viewer can
readily identify with the urban. middle-class vac-
ationers, Deliverance becomes an all-too-possible re-
ality. It is a terrifying film because the savage en-
counter could happen on any weekend camping or
rafting trip. The viewer knows the victims and
realizes it could just as easily be himself.

Through solid, intense performances and terse di-
rection, Deliverance becomes a realistic, enthralling
film. Made in 1972, it features two actors who be-
came major movie stars in the latter part of the decade
— Jon Voight and Burt Reynolds. Voight creates his
character with a near perfect combination of vulnera-
bility, adrenelin, and confusion. When his hand pul-
sates with nervousness during his fight to survive, the
viewer also flinches and jumps. Burt Reynolds deliv-
ers the premier performance of his career. Because he
had no reputation or stereotype to fulfill, Reynolds

_ was free..to.portray his character rather than Burt

Reynolds playing a character. Since his box office
bankability, principal performances are the support-
ing roles of Ned Beatty and'Roriny Cox. ,

TyTN

a a are Pr ra ee

Beatty's solid job as the fat. embarrassed victim
undoubtedly propelled him toward his current as one
of the busiest, finest, supporting actors. By letting the
action unfold naturally, John Boorman provides
superb direction. In the outdoor setting. he wisely di-
rects little attention toward nature with odd camera
angles or techniques: he just documents the harrow-
ing event.

Deliverance is brilliant in its film technique, its
performances, and most of all, in its story. The night-
marish adventure of the four friends will leave them,
and the viewer, shaken and drained for quite some
time. Please plan to catch this unforgettable expert-
ence on Wednesday night in Love Auditorium.

LOOKING FOR A PLACE
TO TAKE
AIR FORCE ROTC?
LOOK HERE:

Not all colleges and untwersities im the Cried States have
Ai Force ROTC programs And we recogmze that many
people want to enter the two or four year program and are
looking for a school where they can take wt. Call or visit one of
the AFROT® Cctachiments hsted above and ask about the
“Crosstown” program
Here are some more facts that raay be of interest
e Courses are open to college men and women
¢ Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books,
and “6 and incidental fees. plus $100 a month during
the school vear
e You work toward an Air Force commission upon gradu
ation. :
e You have an oppcrtunity to serve your country as an Air
Force officer.
e You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend
the AFROTC program there.
Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of op-
portunity. For more iniormation, call or write:

Contact Capt. Paul Chambers at UNCC, Calvard 3059
(704) 597-4537

ROTC
Goteway too great way of lite.

a as bit er A Re Re eee A es
. foe rr ee
