THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXIIIl, Number 10

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, December 7, 1983

Faculty Rejects Semester System

By DAVID McGEE
and DAN VOORHIS

A year of uncertainty ended yester-
day as faculty members rejected the
semester system indefinitely by a 68-37-
1 vote. Davidson will remain with an un-
altered trimester system.

The motion, introduced by art profes-
sor Herb Jackson, sought to “remain on
the three-course system and retain the
present requirement for graduation.” It
passed quickly with only Jackson and
SGA President Hunter Monroe speaking
on the motion.

“I’m glad we’re through,” psycholo-
gy professor John Kelton said. “I’m just
tired of it.”

The issue has been a lively one since
the faculty overwhelmingly approved it
on October 19, 1982. Many felt that the
subsequent study and comparison of
trimesters and semesters, including the
issue of credit hours, was healthy.

“It was not a waste of time,” Interim

President Frontis Johnston said. “It is im-
portant to debate these things, to debate
what is best for the College.” Kelton
agreed that the year of study has been
good because it forced the College not to
take either system for granted.

“Wasted Time’

Monroe saw the debate differently.
He agreed that semesters “made us dc
some basic thinking about our educa-
tional policy, which is always construc-
tive. But that reason alone wouldn’t jus-
tify [the debate]. It was wasted time, I
have no doubts about that,” he said.

The dramatic reversal in faculty opin-
ion between yesterday’s vote and the
1982 vote which approved semesters
raises questions of what caused the
change in attitude. A major factor in-
volved the the modifications made on the
original proposal.

“I am for semesters,” philosophy
professor Earl! MacCormac said, “but I
was against the semester proposal as it

First Union Bank Merges
With Piedmont Bank

By DUNCAN FRASER

Under the terms of a merger agree-
ment reached last May, First Union Bank
of Charlotte will acquire Piedmont Bank
before the end of the year. According to
Marketing Director Janet Simms, “all
changes have been designed to maximize
customer convenience.”

Students who bank at Piedmont will
notice little more than a name change
when they return from Chrisumas break.
Piedmont checks will continue to be hon-
ored, although “First Union” and a new
account number will be printed on all
new checks. Students who participate in
“Wildcat checking” will also be unaf-
fected as First Union plans to continue

Inside This Week

‘CIA Agent: John Stockwell
blasted the CIA in a 900 Room talk.
Page 3

‘Elections: Candidates for the
winter elections speak out. Pages 4 and
5

‘Let’s Active: A visit with an up-
and-comingband. Afoot on page 6

‘Basketball: The Young ‘Cats. are
previewed in a four-page special.
Pages 7-10

‘Kernels of Truth: Reality of
Jesus revealed. Opinions section

that program.

The personnel at all Piedmont banks
will remain unaffected, unless individu-
als request a transfer to another branch of
First Union.

Once the merger is complete, First
Union plans to install Automatic Teller
Machines (ATMs) in Cornelius and
Mooresville, although a decision of an
ATM in Davidson has not been reached.
Finally, after the merger, Davidson stu-
dents will be able to bank at First Union
branches throughout North Carolina.

The merger agreement, which allows
for the incorporation of Piedmont into
First Union, is-the result of increasing
competition in the banking industry.
First Union’s chairman said last spring in
the Charlotte News that the merger “pro-
vides us with good, profitable offices in
areas, particularly to the north of us,
where we're not located.”

The agreement also solves Pied-
mont’s future after John A. Tate Jr., the
company’s chairman and major stoc-
kholder, retires.

The acquisition agreement offers
Piedmont stockholders 1.45 shares of
First Union Stock per share or cash com-
puted on the basis of $51.50 per share. If
all Piedmont’s shareholders opted for
cash the acquisition price would be $15.6
million. -

Piedmont had received — similar
takeover offers from United Carolina
Bankshares of Whiteville and Southern
National Corp. of J.umberton. Piedmont .
settled on First Union at a board meeting
on May 20, 1983. The resulting institu-
tion will have more than $6.2 billion in
assets, making it the third largest bank in
North Carolina. ~

stood.””. MacCormac questioned the
motivations for altering the proposal. He
said the defeated proposal sought only
structural changes instead of educational
improvement. “I think you should
change to semesters for educational
reasons and work out the structural
changes later,” he said.

Ideas such as the 14-week semester
and the 32-course graduation require-
ments were dropped to make the propo-
sal retain aspects of the current system.
The defeated proposal included two 15-
week terms and 36 courses neede for

graduation. Many felt that nine classes

per year was excessive. “Five courses at
a time is crazy,” said philosophy profes-

sor Robert Maydole.

Political Science professor Thomas
Kazee agreed that “the ideal system
would have been the initial semester pro-
posal,” although he remained in favor of
semesters.

The defeat of the credit-hours propo-
sal this fall damaged the semester sys-
tem’s chances. Many professors, espe-
cially in the sciences, felt the semester
system valuable as long as it included
credit hours.

The semester proposal at yesterday's
meeting would have put graduation re-
quirements at 120 credit-hours or 36
courses, effectively eliminating any ad-

(Continued on page 3)

Townspeople and students alike turned

tion Twirlettes baton squad to antique

Carroll Overton

out for last Saturday’ s North Mecklen-
burg Christmas Parade. With over 140 _ parade was great fun to watch.
entries, ranging from Charlotte's Ac-

cars bearing antique politicians, the

$2,000 In Merchandise
Stolen FromWithers Electric

By ROSS HOLT

“They knewetheir way around,” said
Davidson student David Withers of
thieves who stole over $2,000 worth of
merchandise from his parents’ local busi-
ness, Withers Electric.

The theft occurred early Thursday
morning. The intruders gained entry into
the Withers building at 202 S. Main St.
by pushing in an air conditioner in a win-
dow behind the store’s office area, ac-
cording to Withers.

The thieves “took the best of every-
thing we had,” said Johnsie Withers, one
of the owners. They apparently knew
which items were top-of-the-line mod-
els, she said. A videocassette recorder
valued at $1,049, a GE television worth
$639, and a home entertainment center
with a 4-inch color television and AM-
FM radio were among the goods taken.
Withers gave $2,000 as a general figure,
but she said they were not sure they had

accounted for everything taken.

Mrs. Withers said the thieves also
pried open and rifled a file cabinet, ap-
parently looking for money. The cash re-
gister is emptied every evening, she said.

Intruders broke into the building last
month, according to Mrs. Withers. They
gained entry the same way, but tried to
leave through a back door, setting off the
store’s alarm system. Though nothing
was taken, the intruders escaped. The
window with the air conditioner was not
wired to the alarm before the first break-
in, said Mrs. Withers. She said they had
intended to hook up an alarm to that win-
dow, but had not done so by the time of
the robbery.

Investigating officer T.E. Springs
said police have no suspects in the case.
though physical evidence is still being
processed.

Mecklenburg Crime Stoppers will
offer a reward for any information in the
case.
