___ Opinions

Have ‘Times Changed?

By ANN MCMILLAN

onia Johnson wants women to burn on
| S« own behalf, for once — to bum with

anger, with zeal, and with joy. For anger, she
gives us facts (these from United Nations Secretary-

_ General Kurt Waldheim): women do two-thirds of the

world’s work, measured in hours; make one-tenth of
the world’s money; and own one-one-hundredth of the
world’s property. For zeal, she gives us a challenge:
men have always fought and died for their own rights,
and it’s time that women “feel themselves worthy of
the risks and sacrifices that men have always made for

n.” Her and her sisters’ hunger strike for ERA —
thirty-seven days.on just water — serves as an example
of this risk, this sacrifice. For joy, she reminds us, with
humor, to love ourselves. She portrays the patriarchy
and its God as the original Old Boys’ Club, from which
directives are Occasionally issued to women:
God told me to tell you to do everything I say.”

The rhetoric of patriarchal reversal

Raised as a devout and prayerful Mormon, John-
son’s feminist “epiphany” came directly from the male
leaders of one of. the most patriarchal of churches.
These leaders wasted what she considered valuable
spiritual time speaking and organizing against the
ERA. In doing so, they treated women of the church
with condescension and with a rhetorical technique

Make the earth a a safe place for women to live

which Mary Daly calls “patriarchal reversal.” Johnson
became aware that when Mormon leaders speak of lov-
ing their women and holding them in “an exalted pos-
tion,” they elevate women to a pedestal of dependence,
passivity, and fear. To displease any man in authority
— father, brother, husband, church leader — in any
way risks a painful fall from this “exalted position.”
From Housewife to Heretic

Johnson’s “epiphany,” described in her Davidson
lecture and in her book From Housewife to Heretic, en-
flamed her with anger; she says,“I let God have it.”
Why had God made “women so full, so rich, so talent-
ed and intelligent, and then put us in a little box, clam-
poed the lid on tight, and said, “Now stay there, ho-
ney!’”? Her agonized questioning echoes that of femi-
nist Christine de Pizan, who wrote in 1405 of asking
God, “did You not give [women] all those inclinations
which it pleased You for her to have? And how could it
be that You could go wrong in anything?” Johnson
came to realize that not God but men were at fault, for
(again quoting Mary Daly), “**As long as God is male,
male is God.’”

Focussing on menstruation, Johnson showed how
men’s envy of women’s essential creative power led
them to portray that power as “revolting, subhuman,”
and to make women ashamed that “we have no control
over it.” Those who doubt her assertion have only to
read Aristotle, St. Jerome, or any other of the thou-

Real Education

Dont run from a search for truth

By MARY THORNBERRY

It is not uncommon at Davidson to speak of the joys
of a liberal education. Indeed, when we think of the
educational process and the ways in which it enables us
to see new things or to see old things in new ways, it is
easy to get caught up in the excitement of learning. We
think in positive terms: education is valuable, interest-
ing, good.

What Sonia Johnson reminded us was that educa-
tion is sometimes painful. We recognize that aspect
too, but often only in the most shallow ways. Studying
hard is tiring, writing term papers (and surely typing
them) is not fun. Yet real education is designed to
change us; and’ sometimes change involves things to
which we cling, which we are not ready to give up.

Listening to her speak was itself a painful expe-
rience for many, both male and female. She reminded
us of the injustices perpetrated on women, sometimes
by the “good” people of the world. As she noted, many
women are themselves reluctant to embrace the femi-

nist cause because they do not want to hear and con-

front these unpleasant truths. my
As Robert Penn Warren noted in All the King’ s
Men:
The ‘truth is a terrible thing.
You dabble your foot in it

THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983 _

and it is nothing. But you

walk a little farther and you

feel it pull you like an un-

dertow or a whirlpool. First

there is the slow pull so

steady and gradual you

scarcely notice it, then the

acceleration, then the dizzy

whirl and plunge to black-

ness (p. 343).
Yet, as his character notes, there is a pull towards the
truth—and not knowing may be worse.

As Ms. Johnson herself reminded us, it is not fool-

ish to be afraid. What is foolish is to run away from a
search for truth. In her introduction she reminded us
that the women’s movement is for happy women too.
Often that happiness comes only after a painful awak-
ening. It is vain for us to hope that the world will never

_ change, that we can always be comfortable, that things ~

will always be the way they have been that unpleasant
truths will disappear. We need to look for the truth and
be prepared for pain and grow towards the real joy and
contentment that is available only to those who have
searched and found.

Dr. Thornberry is an Assistant Professor of: Political
Science.

’

sands of misogynist “fathers.” In St. Augustine’s
phrasing, “*nothing . . . brings the manly mind down
from the heights more than woman’s caresses and that
joining of bodies without which one cannot have a
wife.’” Johnson's point about menstruation calls to
mind another woman who burned — Joan of Arc. Her
stringent fasting brought on amenorrhea. Spared from
the natural “illness” of women (a paradox in itself), she
was perceived by her followers as holier than other
women, as possessed of manly courage and spirit. In
the hands of her enemies, however, her “unnatural,”
unsexed body and spirit served as evidence for com-
merce with the devil. She, along with the millions of
women (by some accounts) burned as witches, ended
up as a victim sacrificed to men’s horror of women, a
horror they defend as endorsed by God.

Have times changed? Why are there no (or, now,
few) women priests, ministers, rabbis, presidents, sen-
ators, executives? Why are there rapes (one in fifteen
women), wife-beatings, harrassments ranging from
obscene phone calls to unfunny jokes? Sonia Johnson .
is working for two things: to guarantee justice for US
women with the ERA, and to “make earth a safe place
for women to live.” All of us have felt or seen women’s
fear; it remains for us to weenie to demand, to > Fight

Graduates

BECOME A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT.

@ Program approved by American Bar Association.
@ Day or Evening classes available.

26, (404) 266-1060.

PARALEGAL - TRAINING
3376 Peachtree Rd., NE
Attanta, Ga. 30326

Rue eueed

13
