6 Friday, September 23, 1983/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Truck, 1979. Color lithograph

Red Grooms And The Diversity Of Artistic Exploration

By MIGUEL ABREU

The Davidson College Art Gallery is currently host-
ing.a sample of the ceuvre of Red Grooms, one of Ameri-
ca’s most original artists. The touring exhibition, “Red
Grooms: Prints of the Seventies,” organized by the Fine
Arts Center of Nashville, will be in the Gallery until mid
October.

This print exhibition offers the opportunity to dis-
cover one of the facets of Grooms’s highly diversified
artistic expression: His thirst for adventure and explora-
tion makes it impossible to place him in any category.
Grooms is a painter, a sculptor, a printmaker, a car-

_ Penter A puppeteer and showman. tustas he is.ac'ancer,

‘ani actor, a’Satirist, a portrailist, or a film maker. Addi-
tionally, Grooms uses his rich and powerfuNmagination
to fabricate striking environmental pieces (which he
calls ‘“‘sculpto-picto-ramas”) such as the world-famous
“Ruckus Manhattan” (1976) or its ancestor “The City of
Chicago” (1967).

As an artist plunged in the wide and often extravag-
ant world of contemporary American art, Grooms stands

out like one of his own stick-out constructions. His fer-
tile and sparkling inspiration has brought to the front line
of the American art scene, where if not always
acclaimed, he is at least noticed and generally recog-
nized as an innovator.

Even if Grooms lends his creative talents to many
different art forms, he repeatedly depicts simple, every-
day-life themes. Subways, trucks, street life, sex, and
footballs are typical Red Grooms subjects. His handling
of this “common” thematic material is both humorous
and serious. His sense of fun — and unusual feeling in
the art world — result from his colorful and insightful

<p SpsgoabEeTS TLL nuskta saQiri@at ‘ar’ peimshing dimen-°

sion. Grooms says, “Humor is like boxing. You set ’em
up. Then, whammo!”

However, the punishment is never expressed as a se-
vere condemnation of American culture; rather, the
ironic element reminds us of our weaknesses yet encour-
ages us to laugh about them. Grooms manages to con-
front the viewer with the pathetic aspect of his daily life
without provoking a feeling of genuine guilt or shame.

And In The End: The Love You Make

By STEPHEN MANK

Never before have Paul, Ringo, George, and John
received more yellow press than in the past year. With
the release of Loving John by Lennon’s former lover,
Dakota Years by an expatriot Lennon butler, and A Twist
of Lennon by Lennon’s first wife, the Beatle-made-myth
has been exploited and milked for every penny the gos-
sip-mongering public is willing to shell out. But The
Love You Make by Peter Brown is different.

Brown, a friend and employee of the Beatles from
their Liverpool years, is the first member of Beatles’
inner circle to break the code of silence. His book is not a
tasteless exposé but rather someone trying to set the
story straight.

Brown had worked with Brian Epstein, the Beatles’
manager, even before the Beatles had formed. He des-
cribes how Epstein became enamored with the four
leather-clad purveyors of raunch-rock in a gin-soaked
bar in 1962 and began to dedicate all his time to making
them big.

Epstein made an all-out effort to get the Beatles
heard but only managed to get a contract with the failing
Parlaphone Records. Much to everyone’s surprise, the
Beatles’ first single, “Please, Please Me,” was a top-10
hit.

After that the Beatles would have to conquer Ameri-
ca and the world. In doing so they had to overcome many
obstacles including drugs, social disease, false prophets,
cons, unhappy marriages, and millions of wailing pre-
adolescent girls.

The Love You Make is the story of “The next big
thing,” exorcised demons, and four disparate, artistic
personalities.

Brown shows the four with their guard down, ex-
posed to the world. In many cases he explodes myths and
what we’d like to believe, but at the same time he shows
Pome very human individuals who had too much time, too

ch money, and too little privacy to enjoy it. By show-
ing the bad as well as the good, Brown forces us not to
hate the Beatles, but, for the first time, toempathize with
them.

His anecdotes are the most engaging aspect of the
book. Just reading about what really happened when the
Beatles met Elvis would make the book worthwhile.

’ Brown’s book is not the average book by a non-writ-
er who decides to write about times spent with the Bea-

tles because he needs money. Instead, it is a proper shed-.

ding of light on the four. And in the end the feeling is not
one of disillusionment but of relief as four obsessions
with sex, drugs, and rock and roll finally reach equilib-

num. ; ees

Quite the contrary; he invites the viewer to spend time
with the picture and eventually to smile about.the whole
situation.

The “No Gas” series of six lithographs illustrates ap-
propriately this interpretation of Groom’s art.

On the strictly compositional level, the great diver-
sity, profusion, and general busyness of his pictures re-
veal a highly active consciousness. Crude and sharply
contrasted colors, along with super-natural shapes create
a chaotic atmosphere, particularly evident in the city
scenes. Art critic Paul Richard says that Grooms “mixes
ip his work the tiny and the vast, the real and. the fabul-

“ous, the sweet and the horrific. He ranges past and pre-

sent. Sometimes his work seethes. There are prints in the
exhibit — “Fall of Jericho” (1971), “Picasso Goes to
Heaven” (1976) — that attack from many quarters and
allow the eye no rest. Other pictures here shed a balm of
reverence, like his lithograph “Matisse” (1976), based
on a Brassai photograph.

The intriguing portfolio of ten etchings and aquat-
ints, “Nineteenth Century Artists” (1976), is a testimony
of Grooms’s unbounded imagination and passion for
other artists whom he calls his “friends.” This series pro-
vides a change of pace in the exhibition, which culmi-
nates in the masterpiece, “Truck” (1979).

As a constantly experimenting artist involved in dif-
ferent art forms with different media, Red Grooms has
exhibited his works in places such as the Delaney Street
Museum, the Cooper Union for Arts and Sciences, the
experimental Living Theatre on Fourteenth Street, and
the Judson Memorial Church Gallery on Washington
Square in New York City. The Reuben Gallery, jointly
operated by Grooms and several other artists, among
them Edward Higgins, Allan Kaprow, Jim Dine, Claes
Oldenburg, and George Segal, was used as a theatre for
their so-called “happenings.”

Grooms’s events, involving impromptu play-acting
in constructed environments, have been compared to
works by John Cage and choreographer Merce Cunnin-
gham. His best-known happening, “The Burning Build-
ing” (1958), featured Grooms as a harried fire chief clad
in long red underwear hysterically waving lighted can-
dles while painted flames devoured a cardboard tene-
ment building. This is to say that Grooms is certainly not
limited to print-making. One might even suggest that his
prints represent Grooms’s least significant contribution
to art. However, through his prints as much as through
any other art form, Grooms contributes significantly to
“crack the sour humor that rules the realm of art,” as Paul
Richard puts it. And that’s no minor contribution.
