The Davidsonian/Friday, April 15, 1983 11

The Visceral Breece D’J Pancake

By BRIAN BUTLER

It is not often that a writer of power comes from a
small West Virginia mining town. It is not often that a
talented person is left untinged by the regulations of for-
mal education and is allowed to turn to the earth and sky,
to the ordinary young and old for education. Seldom
does a modern voice embody so deeply the values of
hunters, miners, brawlers, drinkers, and prostitutes as
does Breece Pancake.

Breece Pancake senses the hope and despair, the life
and insistent morbidity of those around him. His voice
virtually reeks of feeling; his words almost weep for
you. They reach out and grab you by the neck. They
shake you, and seethe “Listen here, these people are real
and I know them!” One ends up not just listening, but
feeling things about people that to most of us are only
abstractions. The characters laugh, cry, fight, and work
in such a frighteningly real way that one is almost afraid
to leave them alone with themselves. It is not surprising
that their creator killed himself with a shotgun before his
twenty-seventh birthday.

Pancake catches you at first with his tremendous
sense for detail. His stories are full of tobacco, Vitalis,
rust, sweat, potholes, and potato peels. When one of
these details intrudes at just the right time, the effect can
be tremendous. Yet, despite the details, he always
leaves something out. He develops a tantalizing curios-
ity with an unexplained idiom (‘never had a pot to piss
in’) or a hint of lurking violence that trails like smoke
from the heart of the story, leading you on. He knows
when he has your attention, and he lets the bits of mys-
tery slip out at a maddeningly slow rate, making you in-
creasingly bloodthirsty. Yet he leads you to what can’t
be found. He leaves you wanting to know for sure. It’s
what he never says that hurts (but ultimately helps) the
most.

Though Pancake can present violent horrors with
deadly clarity, he never loses touch with the primeval
unreality that makes violence beautiful. In “Hollow,”
Buddy, a young coal miner, pokes a 30-30 shotgun
through his slatted trailer window and shoots a dog who
is waiting for Lindy, his fertile hunting bitch, to step out-
side. Buddy leaves the “thrashing spitz.to die in the
yard,” while he sits calmly on the couch with Lindy.
This sort of violence occurs every day, but Pancake
helps us understand that reasons for violence come not

only from uncomfortable circumstances but from deep’

in the mind, from the zone of fossils and Indian burial
mounds. He does not pretend to know why, he only un-
derstands.
Mostly these stories concern the dead-end lives of
ordinary country people — people who are no longer
’ surprised at grotesque, unexplainable ugliness. The nar-
rator of “A Room Forever,” acrewsman for an 18-hours-
a-day, two-weeks-out / two-weeks-in barge, needs
something to pass the time. He strolls into the lobby of

Friday, April 15
5-7 p.m.

305 N. Main St.

Foreword by
Afterword

John

“Pavilion Flower
Pond and Bridge
Images from

Japanese Gardens”

Join us for a reception for the artist

The Copeland House Gallery

Davidson, NC 28036

his cheap, humid hotel, noting with pleasure the squalid
“cruds” that linger there. His eye catches on boring de-
tails of devastating monotony — vinyl coats, window-
sills filled with dead flies’ skeletons, drunks snuggling
under wet newspapers — and we know he has no way
out of the drowning pain that he is. He tries to enjoy the
fifteen-year-old prostitute he picks up in a doughnut
shop:

The darkness is the best thing, there is no face, no talk,
just warm skin, something close and kind, something to be
lost in. But when I take her, I know what I've got — a little
girl’s body that won’t move from wear or pleasure, a kid
playing whore, and I feel ugly with her, because of her. I
force myself on her like the rest, | know I am hurting her,
but she will never get any breaks. She wimpers and my
body aches in spasms, then after, she curls in a ball away
from me, and I touch her. She is numb.

I say, “You could staqy here this month. | mean if you

wanted to, I could pay the rent and you could get a real job

James Alan McPherson.

com

RM ty

and pay me back.”
She just lays there.

“Maybe you could work uptown at Sears or Penney’s.”

“Why don’t you just shut-the-fuck-up.”” She climbs out of
bed. “Just pay me off, okay?”
The narrator finds the girl in an alley later, drunk, and
she has “cut both wrists down to the leaders, but the cold
rain has clotted the blood . . . ” Pancake describes events
like these as matter of factly as nature deals them out, but
he is not indifferent. The power behind his words indi-
cates that he both cared and knew that there is no solu-
tion.

It takes violence sometimes to shake us out of the
padded cells in which our spirits atrophy. The hunger,
the ache Pancake describes repulses at first but then in-
spires awe in the resiliance of hope. Sympathy with
ruined lives tends to shreve ones own life into purity, to
wrench the nascent violences and throbbing fears into
view and make us choose compassion, not just take it for
granted.

Acrylic Paintings
by
Don Mahy
il 15- ‘Natural Foods-Cheeses- CO)
Apri ts -Wines-Imported Beer- i \
-Coffees-Teas: ones
‘Gourmet Kitchen items: PARLE C)
HAYS |
@ O92.
206:
seas:
Trissy Lomax, owner $526
OF 128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C. ey,
Or 28036 See

892-7521
