(Continued from previous page)
part.

Perhaps a few words are in order about each of my
five premises. Premises One and Three are moral axi-
oms. Premise Two ia a logical principle governing the
use of the word “ought.” Premise Four is a meaning
postulate for the phrase “under the aspect of person-
hood.” Premise Five simply reflects the empirical fact
that we do not choose our biological sex.

I can virtually hear, even now, what some of the re-
sponses will be to this argument, because I have heard
them so very often before. Indeed they dot history it-
self. The response of many will be, “That’s fine for
idealists, Maydole, but after all, we have to be practi-
cal.” Well, perhaps they have to be practical, even at
the expense of the moral point of view. But we all
know that this response is not reason for discriminating
against women. It’s an excuse! One that says that it is
sometimes right to abandon the moral point of view for
the prudential. That boils down, of course, to saying
that one ought not to do what one ought to do. A sheer
contradiction. Beware the voice of anti-reason!

I implore all members of the Davidson Comunity to
listen to their heart and to their reason, and then to join
with me in condemning the injustice of discrimination.
Let us take one more step in the direction of being fully
human, and thus stop judging persons because they are
black or white, male or female, rich or poor. Let us
have a sex blind admissions policy right now and fore-
ver.

Dale Carter 83 is the
Ugliest Man on Campus

by Anderson Scott ‘84

“hs
HEALTH PROFESSIONS
SCHOLARSHIPS

If you're planning a career in
medicine you owe it to yourself to
find out about the Alr Force's
Health Professions Scholarship Pro-
gram.

Qualified U.S. Citizens can
receive scholarships for medical or
osteopathic school.

Our scholarships include:

Tuition

Require Books

Required Lab Fees

Required Equipment Rental
and More Than $550 Monthly Stipend

——7
AIM HIGH

USAF Health Professions Recruiting
1100 Navaho Drive
Raleigh, NC 27609

Looking for a chance to move in the
fast lane? Then check out Marine
Corps Aviation. The training is su-
-perb. The challenges are unique.
Your ticket to fly is your college

diploma and your drive to succeed.

If you’ve got what it takes, you
could be at the controls of anything
from a Cobra to a Harrier to the
hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet.

Maybe you can be one of us. {

Call your Officer Selection Officer collect at (704) 371-6128

See your Marine Corps Officer
Selection Officer when he visits your
campus or call him, at q—-

»

the number listed gas.

below, today. or

=n

THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983
