Dr. David Kaylor

“The risk of nuclear war” has almost become the
cliche of our time, but behind that cliche lurks a reality of
incomprehensible proportions — so incomprehensible
that we have tried to push it out of our consciousness al-
together. If that risk were as present in our consciousness
as.it is in actuality:we would all go mad, or else we would
take all possible steps toward self-preservation.

It is ironic that Mr.. Reagan, the most outspoken ad-
vocate for “re-arming(!) America,” may in fact give the

_ Strongest impetus toward disarmament, not so much by
scaring the Soviets as by scaring his own citizens into
acting for their own safety. The more the president tells
us that our security is. in more weaponry of mass destruc-
tion, the more apparent is our actual insecurity. The
more he asserts that the Soviets represent evil in the
world and that we must engage in a crusade against
them, the more we know that we are also threatened by
our own self-righteous aggressiveness. The more we
hear of “protracted” or “limited” nuclear war, the more
anxious we become over the sanity of those who control
the buttons.

One good reason, then, for supporting moves for the
reduction of nuclear weapons is fear, not an irrational
fear but one based upon a realistic, rational assessment
of our present peril. Oné can find smal! comfort in a vi-
sion of the president and his military advisers surveying
a devastated earth from the “safety” of Air Force One
and lamenting, a /a the Air Force commander surveying
a devastated Vietnamese village, “We had to destroy it
in order to save it.”

For. me an even more compelling reason for ques-
tioning the Present course of U.S. policy derives from an

eee fe

— SS S iy i

understanding of the commitments of a biblically based
faith. The call to be peacemakers, to join in the work of
reconciliation, recognizes no national bounds. To heed
such a call may well put one in conflict with the policies
of one’s nation. It seems to me impossible to reconcile
the world-view of the Reagan administration with the
commitments of my faith. If peace be the goal, then
peace must also be the means. Current U.S. approaches
seém to me at considerable variance with this convic-
tion. Bellicosity, threats, labelling others “evil” do not
produce peace. Destabilizing production of weapons
perceived by others to afford first-strike capability does
not produce peace. Perceiving the world as divided be-

tween good (us) and evil (them) does not lead to peace.
Demanding nuclear superiority as the condition and pre-
determined consequence of arms negotiations does not
lead to peace. All such attitudes and actions may lead to
temporary safety from attack (or they may not!), but they
do not bring peace.

Fear and faith thus urge us to work for freezing, re-
duction and elimination of nuclear armaments. Faith
urges us farther, to work for a world of Shalom in which
there is security, justice, well-being and reconciliation

‘for all people.

Kaylor is a professor of Religion at Davidson College.

Students Should Support Faculty Satement

Debby Williams
Hal Martin

We strongly believe that students should make a
statement on nuclear arms and support the faculty in
their statement calling for reflection, education, and
concrete action. We feel that a student referendum
would expose the largest number of students to this issue
and give them a fair opportunity to express their opinion.
Further, a referendum is one of the most effective ways
to raise awareness and discussion about nuclear
weapons. Our hope is that the student body will dis-
cover, as did the faculty , that we do have a basis for com-
eagufention with cach other sheet tations eomament end

The statement on nuclear arms is a declaration of

. principle, designed to address moral beliefs and a need

to re-examine traditional thoughts about war and secu-
rity. It is not intended to prescribe a legislative or strate-
gic solution to the arms race. By establishing certain
common goals, students and faculty can recognize a
unity in thought, thus creating a basis for further discus-
sion on the different ways of implementing nuclear arms

Often we at Davidson talk past one another when we
discuss topics such as the MX, the House Freeze propo-

sal, or calls for peace through strength. But if we show

_ Our agreement for this statement, we will prove that
some level of understanding is possible among us, Equal .

respect and responsiveness from all perspectives are

needed as we enter further, more difficult examinations

of the nuclear arms race.

While student suppor for his statement would be 3

the faculty, it would- go beyond this step by arousing
concrete discussion and awareness. It would also offer
future opportunities for education and action. Some
Suggested activities include student/faculty forums or
workshops on alternative defense policies, disarmament
and national security. Educational opportunities for the
entire Davidson community and concerted political ac-
tions are also possible.

The student referendum and the faculty statement
play a vital role in stimulating our academic community.
Both actions communicate to ourselves and others that
the Davidson College community believes nuclear
weapons constitute a significant issue. Raising aware-
ness in this manner forces us all to evaluate our beliefs on
the existence of nuclear arms.

Please support the referendum on Tuesday.

Williams is a junior Center major studying nonviolence
nsatamananennnancamanana an .

ybe flat a ie "
