The Ovidsonian/Frideagh the 13 7

OPINION

AStatement Against Dialogue

Keif Nihil

Consider the liberal arts tradition. We revere it as a
great historic march forward of ideas, a synthesis of
creativity and experience from the multi-faceted mind of
humanity. It guides us, sol am told, through the tortuous
perils of the modern day, giving to its masters the power
of clear-thinking, decision-making and, ultimately, a
comfortable yearly income.

But there is something wrong here, which I disco-
vered as I was rethinking the cultural history of civilized
man the other day. Despite our much-touted tradition of
liberal arts, the human race is still in quite a mess —
hunger, nuclear weapons, acid rain, and self-selection
are still very real and pressing global problems. There-
fore I ask what has four millennia of willy-nilly intellec-
tual growth gotten us? The answer: nothing. And why?
Because of dialogue.

Dialogue confounds me. It is one of those things we
use in our daily lives evey day. I talk — you talk —I talk
— you talk — J talk — I talk — I talk. Great people
throughout history have engaged in dialogue, like Jesus
and Alexander the Great. Shakespeare used it in most of
his plays. Dialogue has always been with us. I wonder
why, Dialogue confounds me.

I must submit that dialogue cannot be taken for
granted as a good thing. I contend that it has not neces-
sarily helped mankind’s progress at all, and may even at
times be a bad thing. I say this because I have noticed at
Davidson that dialogue seldom accomplishes anything.
It is bad enough that so many people have so many sub-
jective beliefs and meaningless opinions, but even worse
that I have to interrupt what I am saying to listen to them.
Is this right? Is this Justice? Is this Truth?

o@.weee =

a Pr Per
MOLL  &

We have been taught to assume that dialogue has —

pragmatic socioeconomic appications that transcend
cultural boundaries and that therefore nations should

maintain open dialogue with other nations. In reality,
dialogue is a very Western culture-bound concept, dat-
ing back to the ancient Greeks. I refer your attention to
one of Plato’s Dialogues, in which, I believe, the whole
idea got started:

Phaedrus: V\l tell you, if you can spare time to

come along and listen.

Socrates: What?. . .

Phaedrus: Lead on then.

Socrates: Please tell me.
(“Phaedrus,” p. 476 of the Humanities edition)

In pointing out the pretentious Western bias of
dialogue as a basic social medium, | am moved to ques-
tion the legitimacy and fairness of assuming that what
was good for the ancient Greeks is necessarily goad for
us and the whole world.

Do we ever wonder, for example, when we are
tourists at the United Nations if Western civilization hagg
imposed dialogue on the rest of the world? Do we ever
consider that there may be alternatives? fn Zen Buddh-
ism, people just meditate and act. The Soviet Union is
another case in point, Dialogwe is used very little in that
culture, and yet the Soviets are one of the most powerful
nations ,on-earth. Perhaps the idealistic cultural im-
perialismof the West is even responsible for the tensions
that exist betwéen the United States and that country.

»  [ needn’t belabor the point. I think Kierkegaaaaard

hints at this in Fear and Trembling, but | don’t know

- where. I didn’t read the whole thing. There should not be
“an answer. It is a loaded question.

Dialogue still confounds me. I wonder if even at
Davidson we talk to each other too much. | have cer-
tainly experienced this myself in Humanities.

Dialogue confounds me.

Keif Nihil is a sophomore.

(Continued from page 4)

77 AG piieeq Ou pms UBpie Ca pps eportq vot bees cura (vow Combauue (peas suq aqeocniuh ove ov (pe
(PUR pO Uae? Up Line ove ukpe aia (yet pow of (pecs Cau CoUuctIns CopeLeut Otay 47 Guise: Vact deo
IPLOIGUs BITOUTY CCN? ECCT) PILI? (Low NpeTUTU qed OF (ps Riese Counwou hood 10 (pe cabbositou
0. (pe bow Gun] qo vot U6eE cen? COLUCIqG nip (pe Cousmou booq: peu copntou enbbousd p27 qe ualout7
Ips ComOU 46.026 OF DUG ZELITIOU OF IPG ACY ANOS 17 iO., OF16U IU IP 1UIeUis OF (poes WW boa 6u' 1uq (pe 1WiGLest-
COWIOU Boog Calpe foUT CousiqeLipys j69b oy i7enubpous yqpoes foo ie ponh uesenueg, {Moun ony”
qeiet biosbecnre qizecutee (potp OL a picp tu. coumou buegess foqi7 pda uspessy oon acup (pe
7.007 Lede beep? (pic wepaqes qernuiwh suq ecccnnuk qie-cuieu suq tounuUk iwarcuuiuse)7 10
edn (pe couneu Boog sip uTOUTy 760007 on pecoues Inctipinpts 10 qo mpmtes co sUIGUaUE. OF UTNOUTL
WUE KEAG] Opkeets ipst ous Ca lata? Gay? bosinyte (pe CoMOU ROOg 4 (pe AYITG WOLT) ZINE you pe

jon
mp

becuase they disagree with the prevailing ideology. Al contends that a government which does not have to reso

P

membe

of
p Whose good
good. Eve

the
with the

3 and torturing indiscriminately

leap of
ily

g into their national constitutions. In most cases. then. Al is sin
of the por do not

that might makes right. True. one might argue that both of these can const

d thei

Y

Pr
P

and
good to the

In addition to having an international membership, Al bases its position on international agreements. The /
Statute states that the organization's object “shall be to secure throughout the world the observance of the prov
sions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” This declaration. along with the more detailed Internation

>, Covenants on Civil and Political Rights. guarentee basic human rights to all citizens. Most countries have signe
Who gives us human rights? Rights do not exist “out there™ in any objective sense: we create them and our cor

census makes them real. Our reasons for creating rights generally include a fecognition that the world is populate
Revell objects that one can just as easily postulate the common good as the ultimate moral value. Then. t

equating the common good with national security. it becomes justifiable to do whatever maintenance of nation
ig and i

With 13,000 members. the U.S. section comprises a tiny minority within Al's membership of 325.000. Cor
Al's carefully maintained cultural and political impartiality accounts for its credibility as a human nights 0
Zanization. But this skirts Revell’s other question of whether human rights advocacy is justified at all.

ering-the cultural and political spectrum. Al members have differing visions of the ideal society. but they all agre

on the primacy of human rights.
Al has no armies. no political affiliations. no corporate clout. It does not adv
regimes, and takes no sides in revolutionary disputes. It knows that every government. whatever the ideolog:

creed. or the skin color of its officials. is capable of mistreating its citizens. Like Revell in his essay. Al

Equating national security with the common good calls for a
being measured? National security. in the common sense of preservation of the status quo. is most often in the it

terits of those in power. and the i

Gharta. Korea and Nigeria to name a few. Fifteen more countries. including Chile and the USSR. have Amnes:

groups and there are active Al members in 154 countries
Gompared to the arsenal of military and economic strength that the world’s governments have at their dispose

Al's network of small groups armed with pen and paper seems puny indeed.
by sentient and rational individuals who feel. and think. and dream. and love. and plan. So we decide that humz

institutions should not treat such beings in certain ways. For example. we decide it is wrong for any instituti

to inflicting terror and violence on peaceful citizens in order to stay in power is a healthy government.
arevolution supported by the majority threatens national security. Revell shifts from a utilitarian idea of the grea

simply express their opinions as private citizens. Cumulatively these opinions may have some effectiveness. B:
systetnatically and deliberately inflict pain on people. or we decide it is wrong to imprison and kill people si

deter prospective dissenters (both of which are common practices today)

“ASOLIA ‘ead
impo on Aupige sw" aun i dep Jo voy | 24) “SaNjeA [esoU Joy WyBNOY sR
ER ApAUL SAK TL IBAA PHOAA J! “J2AOQUOW “1809 URLINY TRAUB PapIOAR BABY PINOD “s’7) By) “sUOHRZIPYSUOD s1ySU
ruiny Xq Burpige Aq :2ayss2ox sem AjuNd2s jBUOTTEU Joy WI9U0 ay) Tey) Jau8e saXjeue yoy “snoursesyp si ad

“ply holding governments to their public promises

Sthese

5

SammMg paHul ay) wodust o1,, A 2q 1431 11 erpoquue> se yons aun)jnd s9~POUR UI _>pom, or sIyBU URW,
J 49pso UL yRYD SaVEINdOds [pony _, uss1]e 1} FRIBOjOIpI,, $1 3]RIs sPamppyom # uO sWyFU UEWAY Jo K2RDd0A
ye 2ouay pur *£3ojoop1 pue aunyjns ued 8 yo sanpoud are syyBu WeUIAY JeYD $1 UOLID9{Qo puodd:s s,1}2434y
paytrsnf st 1 “pood ayion Ban 40) Jt sIYTU OIQUJOLAU! OU aABY speNpIA
Pur ‘vontsod siy UO “pood saya ay) sw Aum fe1d0s [[U2A0 sayy HUIP] YY LOHHTSOd UBLRNINN ;ROISERID ay) dn

Jug ||20ay 2}dusex-sa1un09 # sy (,2;durex2 Joy *pasn0) 2q 01 OU WYBL ay) — atRJOIA URD FUIWWIA08 OU yor
yay unui uieLas avy s8u19q UeUUNY {18 Fey) 2A0ud DUO UED MOH ‘UOHROYUSAL jRo1ydoso}Yd S49") 11 YD
dunoud 2y) Uo s1y3L UEUUNY Jo YOLKOU 241 04 8199/go ay “PUL “SINSSt OMI UO 9139 JY MOE SUJADUOD §,1]}2A94
“Aydosoyyd pur sarzeseya spy Ayusm> oF pur Aru
{awut., sno puayap 1 Ary ddo ays 124 IM “BiaUOY (i NFM pur date py 34H dnosd # d3>94 oF pauinb
u St Bujuorsanb wersuod ‘ypdop ui ansst saydu weUsNY 24) 49p18U09 0} JUOIWOS Pardusosd SRY JRIK sty) sAdWRD
» aouasaud ano ey) paseayd auom ayy “UOIUOSPLADG] 8, ysOM ISB] UY .,UESELIdUI] Fes0Hy °F 1 Aysou
UY, [EHOUPS [ry yBNOy) 6,{;249y YI2y) Pore}oudde jeuopeussyu] AysouWY Jo s29deYD WOSP}ABG] 94),

V7 Cpmtieie suq byjocobps > KE A6]{ 4 COUCGULs Spon Wy CCUIEL OU LO 1721s BILAL PG OpICEi4 10 gee BOLOU OF
Reonb pipe yy yes sq wieyecunay? pousct AS 6) CoUs ips Obbou nuns 10 ge {6uq Ont WWIGULA mq (0 Cp TU
coat pate brow bie coweous fo Couziqe. ips pour Ubpis iene, wu qebip: Cousin dnecvoutuk 17 udniueg 10 peek
UstoUT, WOU pusbeunpicuy, tw pet cer 4 \Qaniyroni aac aeeu, byenecg tpst om bueeeuce ou cnusbne (pie
LPS DA qo cpsbiet of yuuuea2 pute wusouny bbecc ined (COUP BEA) 7 IPOAhpE AN] COLA, \yuIUertZ [VIEL

bappe obiuiey pauqy? qecci.ce Ips PIP pape) oy nubeusyicus y | pie umeUt] Accuous iW 4 | Contes [pees iw

Lolee ve ace qmys jot nnbeuspicnie batboene yy oe oy aa bopien otksuisiiou a ieiqiuk ouyZ qe bowen of

UR Be FR LCeUe ues NCQ YO. OG EQN AGE IL LY (pe COurE LOL OKC mppeee uns nq CevOUItE

THe. vottous oF pruaU UEpL4 OU Opel Conutuss patio cucontaie (pews io comb? meup uicumtioun) pus
§BE 0) 2 VD et OU (pine Conus Bee yt 7 iieiUpeLapib 17 Coe? COIN] 26COUq? yy (7 WIG 14 BOL LO [ous nw
Tt Ups cpmie ipa yi oy cousins qeojoFien, Ou cayinuyy abeungiciy (quan (pe pao baurenyny7
206s — tee puojok)” cociny viuncinu,” bowen rite ito Caupoqit | iy uecboud 10 Ips 26c0uq opleciiou
OLE. [OL pRUY UPI? 10 cour UE TBOWPCL CAINL, ane a7 Capo Uni pt pe ueeezeaty 40 nubou pe ¢uueg
peuee aqneese2 oF pouty URpie ou MOYqu.ogs come ie oqeojokied tibeuneur  Kerey cbecrymes ipa iw
Fe nAEd: Bert ¢ 2660uq opleciou 17 ipa pour ubpie me buoqaci ops brurenym cays sug iqeaqok7 © suq
Rune Kooq: Qu pie bociwou: we iqaayy paas vo waloiapys Uhpte: 1 touny, COULUIPNG? (0 Ips ComON ood: 1
Comical, Kens puubs qb ips cyizaicny ALT bosiioU a piep IqEUEyes Or cen) cociny MUNN 97 ge
pace COumY Wun UEpts mpicp vo Roccuueut cu 210) — ipo URYE UOL IO pe found: jor camubys, yen
pray Up ou tps Eronuqe ivan i pace? byypocobpreny Ineuyiecaiou: pyow cau our bua Ip yy prs peruse
VI1L2 Gyms. sug byiozobp?” 6676)).¢ CouCE UUs apONE yy] COUIGL OU LO 177s BIL ps oplese 10 (p6 votiay oF
Reon pre WEG WEE ECLA? poUs t AAe a 6jcous Ips ObbOUNUHZ 10.96 16Uq ONL 1WIGELIE7 _ 10 67
od ce nh iive Hiaso eviliiesbt deity nonicoq asnentiy leoteculs ot qu cgand Hood viqiiuss- inves
1. booy sommes aft oF csludnines sunol th aidgn sidulorsn on yaud eleubivibai nonieo cid eO .booy ieoueny
baw. yolesbi baw swilus wlysineg 6 Vo ¢ruborq sau cidgn aumud ded 71 nOts{do Laos 7 Iho beitieni 71
A ted cotluseqe Novel meilensqm livigolosbr 41 alive vbowbhow 6 ono aidgyn nerd to cavovbe sono
bana sd noqeni or nweessen od Idgien i wibodie) 2i dove sauiluy edions ai Ayo a oF dyin aged vol yalae
notts{do basse ot Or baogen Mia 1 wibodme) om” invateds Ieviilog swraute lero. -egolondust — come
chitusineg zaW od neh inilineqay “hawilus v0 “levigolosbi" catutienos drow VA tid) vipwds oT ieiil
“nw not oniod ai don VA bao? lnwilus-ccons ci qidasdmem (VA ard anuos adi no sell i Ae J odt
aumud lenonemsini dita giqmnoy oF med) sg woony Of ud coniauOs Torte no Ady aumud to caonoR wilhinl
suinonsy baw Quilicn sadw bhow & lo trsinos odie .budl \ongie NgilWvivant oi duke singmanye cdg
to swoq sdt gino goiblyiw nonesiquyyo tusiilog uci Ow 1A escoqug “oietlaneqmin iol vlibb boew or not
At seo .cotiauos Lb ni cnoitoe lenonun cud TA metinsqiu to bdel daud oft exmeesb bnud aoiniqo vilduq
nom Tse carole omen oF wirayiM baw 0A .unwdD .deobelyaud 6 dove . esti mooW -non crue dbus
caninuos FR aedeom 1A sviton an nod) baw query geonmA seed ACU odt bag tid) ynibuloni .-virinues
yansvo) 000,258 to qidasdoam 1A nidtiw Ginonia vail a csenqmos noite 2 U odd edineen OO0FL AW
qumud Iknonimein diva viqetos oF mod) syswesns OF ud cotinuers Tedto no Adyn numud bo cnoion wilt
viens. bag nutilin nodw bhow «lo treings sdbai bd Mowe AysilWi i coli dove anvennye edgy
fo wwoq sdl vino gaibloiw nois\inugy levitilog bea ow 1A .eseoqug “oiteilensqmi” wl dink beeu c1 not
oni seo cyninwos 1b ni cnotiae lunoiien cod FA omeilanaqin to lodul dad ot coroeob cli noiniqo silduq
nom aati ole omen oF 6sgi baw wn0A .waudO .devbulgacd cu douse .corinues moieoW-non num sbuls
coinvos bb ini Asda TA a vitae ns nod baw cquory aesnmA veud AZ od baw lid) gmibuloni.esninues
yainyve’) 000.208 loqidasdmem ¢ 1A nidiiw inodin ail 6 esenqmos noite .2.U ods avd 000.61 diwW
no singe He (adi ud ogtyivoe Iesbi od lo enotry ganetib ved asd 1A cmintssge levitilog bau Liwilus ot
“BITEIN NO NOINIcOg Ali eseud LA .qidaydenomn | sin nw gnived oF noiibbe al cidgn numiud to qoumning ot
od bhow yd worguendl nose oO} 9d Hide” tayido ¢ notesingyo oA ot cotute stu? TA od einige bun

od diw ynols .noitietob cid" adgiAtismuH to soils lanseinU oft Fo morrenq att to soMuereedo o>

Lense He of aidge qemud viecd suiquneuy .cidyi 8 levitilod baw tivi no cinuny70D lnnotemyial boligtb aon

‘. ” ty+
Wi ted eyiglusaqe Hove “neilinaqan Ibori” i vitae sbowbhow 1 no adn quid to Cuyoebs yond

Latin of neg or niceyran od bgten tt wibodn’) ai tous autlus radton ni how” oF dyn nsenud vol le
fowrsido bao ot ot baogen Iliw 1 wibodenu:’) on "vate lesitilog nuraue Wutvoe -cgolondset — conse.
chetusinug AcoW od ment cacilunaqau “hawt” 1 “lesigolosbi" eaiunienos dow 2A wd vywds oT il
say saobonion Ado VA bread lewilus ecors i qidaadein VA aid inues radi no slid i A 2 ot
vorsenuad ayduus puoag saunsaw 24122909 01 2UAOSII INO
Tw 143Y.. Ty Ng “SpulU pur sURsy *, 2}d09d Jo JouN)BI}{R Dy) Joy Bug B BUNYBY 8) Jy *)}2A2y Iq] “WISH RUDd
Ut [RaBopoapr s2onJNAd jy wey) KLUYE}> OF Radda yowUND dy *s20p 3y yt ING SaTRNIP AmU |Janoy ‘A19190% suMUUNY
d dv 51 soy ys Unuuny 409 199ds9y “1YBNO) UI0q BABY x2]10Eq LY s7yR DARY

safe yo P YI 30) aH
1 91U 81 Iya 29RD IY) UO uI>} [RIN JOdOII0s w -YSNOYLIYR UR IOUS! sIYTLE URLUAY 40) 1990534 EYP “POY LY
“W3ISIP OF NIYJIP s} sxasaud YSnoyy}' dda sums anissauddo ays yo fomnip
1 Yim WssquRUWOS ders-puD PsEAOI SuLAOW 2q OF sUNVE{D [)IEs * 9dUEXd 30) WSS PUL ‘pouinbau aun «aun
vous aaiwsasddo iB Hey) OS yd Asan @ 2g 01 spuan Ku|iqers po2s0) pur “psu ® on uem
-ma704 CAilwod Bei za0q ni (ete OF lao at caNiti2 hil 2uo9 NO sonutOrs bau YETI ynitoifind of Neen oF sud ton
44 2d 7 sutey hiner stuenitly ot es booy nonin oft siuluteoq WicKs ou ul m6 ano tell crade Hava wean
lenoiten Vo saqcasinise Tevstudw ob oF siduiliten| comoved 1 Jno Innotien diiw boog nomines ot yauuups
o qbatunvenyseibat gonuno bay A2inyecib ynitusess baw yainiwiob eybulont cds duced cmiupy aise

cyorsd neriud ths tnd) sven vo aus HOH nonioiany be sidqoeolidq ¢dsul WTbdd -bavety vill ng adtyin niece
6A Solqmi7 sol banunot ad oF tod idyn ot — yinlor ous Insmnimsdoy of doidw aidgn mucniann anys yd
ad) cu oily letooe Uatae eottinabe dandy nonioq aueunliw lysiceils odd qu eyand Maso vlqeiesy vainue,
" bawry nornines adtor oiudinings aunt aidyn vidulovent on svud Auubivibar nonicog aid nO booy ttiony
baw. 7yolovbs bag awilus wlusineq 6 lo etoubenq sw Aidgn quod jedi a1 nonsatde bags ¢ oe buitieuy c
wajqoud ay) jo Buipursuapun onu) & sO2A2ud JUdIUOD jRUOIOWD
1 wayy UO} ddo yo wi2;qoud ay) 8 sQy .. Amumyo.. | iT situsod Ajpasoddns siyy quaiu0s | 2
1 Bupanas sauinbay wayqoud & Surpumsuaspun pry mata 24) ploy oF Kouapuay Buouys Hm vt ayy saddu9 jrUOn
YUL2 PUR SIINPR pPNIDI}}21U} BuUIWOIIG YKU 2M ZX1MUIZyIO “VOURINPS sno yo URd F 3g OF YTNO BULdIINS GoYO
» stowy ay) JO VOINUBOIIU FRY) MURS J “| RU2AIUN du 2834) — S2UO PrAo| Jo 2zNO! JO YROP ay) jo “IYdIU 9y) UL BOUL
pqs yo ‘purw s avo Buyymads yo ib ayy JO “yuaMaundysip wouRUad yO sRdy 9y) “YOOYS 3119913 pur
412g jo ured ay] “20U Op sey pur UI uNI]Nd Oy 28NyjND WOIy JURY. YoId!|au PUT sNIYINY , San{RA Wapurdap
JRNURSUUN IID, Woody S2sLR SIYBL URUIAY 40) WIZdSVO HYD UDdUIIMS 6 |]2AIYy YIM Inest Susy aM | *AYPRULY
J2sw1y Pury Pynom ay Yyotym UF AuRdusod ay) 341) PjNOM {]2AIy uNs dou LW | YBNOY]|e — puMIx Aulsoddo ue 29m
Iyaauoy auow Yyonws x1 1p purrs ulM2> F BuNyR) uIRBR jUsWNAUR [Nyrdu0y FOU M1 SIALMUUAIR yO 2dUaKaud JyI
10 Sunuiog ‘Op oF sumadde ay sw 2ou24 24) Buipu Xq jy 01 D2[go ApwnonuaidsUOd jouUED [jIArYy sKaUIINY 1)" UT

anit te oF adgn quid sized sinus dyed iene ban 14 ne -inwas 70 lnnonemestal bylerl voc
al -nonutiienos lunonua ied) om eyoiniuy Wed) boleqosn bag cinumu2ob vod bangle a cud coninues iol
sae Lesitilog on caine on end TA eoerineng vilduq wodi ol inane coy yaiblod clams lA odd eoeiy ior
ulowan a cobie on eydu) baw coin a ricenqqo lo wondineco oft oie sobs ton esob He uols saves on eno
av alaiilto an lovolos aids odie bass syolosbi odie seed daseny soy aye Wade wond IE esuqeib “uno
shaq cu enoiniqe tied eenqys alqinie asda tA aices cid i Word oA enoniig ai yanenicin to oiduqus
ben manhien te terse od of bneqiies WH eesny salle sitios seed conn eaoiniqo veodl qty ainlumiu cis
diva been equory Wirne Yo Ao aten VA ducoqeib wedi iis cud ainsi soy ¢ bho sd iudd digas suinonos,
Aol Anwess Cilanaqen taviilog bre hawilus boniwinien cuba 1A bebe gaug cries vaquq baw. 1x
o7bs adgn nuciud vediod a lo nonesup radio «Maro ends cid we nonusingyyo aidgn musiud ua ailidibar
san bene ado fa aA ne errs tonob aidyid Cadyn quciud cu cari od dll tite builiieuy et cans
on iud) noinnyoua 6 ybulon Mioesy Ady ynies vol nose WO lian fied) es dui vuensones wo ban Hid
sod nul baw .y7ol baw .niab baw. dod baw dust oda cwabs zibe lino baw tnviinee 7d batuluqod a blie
Tol ynen a an obiveb ya slqiney sO ecw nian i eyo dove tit ton bluode enouutiens auciud ted) sbi ab
ban noenqi of gneta ai sbiayb ye siqoug no nq diliai donadileb baw hese 77 OF noice co.
7200 dod a tases coy 6 ads ebavings 1A cyolesbi yatta cng od dia rye cadd sean sed cgi viquag thd
myroy (Abode ely aod nt gale oF lio nt ensuites lilssesq 90 sonvlors baw rons) gotta ol noes oly cud bon
OpZCLANUCE UO IPG bUO2171007 OF IPS (\UIZ6UT) DEC OU OF oUTU BInpIe Lyte qecumumieu: myouk up (pe
Hout SRULcweuls EL p6 WE arsine -ImG? Ip ips OLENA IOU 7 Oplecd 7pm) pe lO 26Cnis (pUDnR pond (pe oud Ibe
pe buwsee? of paws Ubpie ju sqquiou fo pr iuk my tuicuuOuT) WeupeLpib: yy pices 7 bosiiou ou ruieu't
(pe Cryin aq bopneny) -beciunu yy Uepels p76 QIGUUR 2 itOus OF Ips Iqeny] coc.” pat ipes ty thus ou
ANE E000 WEWIpeLIpe CQ) 2) 266H0N CoMbU Zz. 9 HU7 WOLIZ ApIU ypc euperpib OF 452000 C.076U0K
conuiues weynquk Cpe tu ips (eek pee yinuee? RBuonbe mug (pou 9 ICL 6 Vy EeUpeLs ty | gq CONUILGs
C)N96 WIT? DOU _Ao7iGL ConuIUE?: cacy ae QoUisqe7y: GQymud: oun ug YInGuG te UNE Gap YGGU OKs,
[knovne to soaunsinieen a eotuda Ob of slduilieut omnis 1 inwase lenotiun dina booy nomminoy ofl yaLups
oF cloigniniacibar yanunoe) baw asin ib yaiusysy baw yond eobulon adi decent cniupor cw oye
ab dw Gnu lenoiee youu pl (cabot caaitoiiq nonunion dada to Mod) Avinueab yaiteaqeorq vib
an. Anse enon Sbawwessen gated 4 booy yeod Wo coouqiiuers lo qual vidutybizng si rol ilny boey omunes
Aen ad baw a9 4oq At ycod lo ansin sda aatto ion 4) op enn 9fl to none cesIg be venee nominal
Aneuein al ed benogque nowuloran 6 age boo nomi ofl Ana sbrnios Cnieesaa0 ton ob luli woq adi lo
nonicoqque vib OF booy Honing eng 2A lo Gabi auntie Giant lide Hoe ainiase banaue erates
bu Wud inate de bavorn Innvders swine Aw ¥eudt Wo Mod jdt yore Idyien vee out Edges coduen idee deel
adie ste sntiivo be ba aval yorwqumrsdivnl au tye ton Dluods cid nes etdyanumiud ae Loew ete 77
Zee pre LLoyd eOWUuGOUG Lo COUAIqGLIpG PUY Unis i7ene Tuga Couciiut dine oul ie ding Wa poo a
uAOUN YyOLTy pubeUNii WU pet ney 6 \yueyromn ype acu, bienecd ipo ont buezeuers ou crusbae pie
LPO D9 qu cpabie. of yusue-7 purewunionsy tbbue eed KOUP BE. OI ¢POORPIA Cynon spunuects pute
8? EPISVBELH Kl22
424 dy) 40 JUO0 Ju OApeH pur “way? dur
wdwwos woyy sn udAaud JOU Pynoys sy fp (URS s1y3u URUNY UO Paxng Wa7shs mse PEN! SULdIKA® pRIOLY PUIIIYOS 311
C7 ACAD ptiecg Ou prune UnyIs Cau [pte eponyq uot bens cur ne plow CombouUk yeu suq nqeoemiUk ove on (pe
wut mihpe wine? UBpE pune ous I RpL LRA (pl poly of Ipees CHU COUsLI COpeunuL WoL 77416. Ineg te
PLONE Us UNIEIOUY AOC MLN BEZEL) CPI? PUOn OLIN qe Of pe henmec, Common hood to ips cabborieu
OL (p6 Doaeu ny qo Bot ueen cen? COLES Ap (pe Counnou ooq: pe6u scoped cabbousd pe wpe urtowis
(pe CoWUOU 26027 OF Diner ou Of Ips ani We: 4 od) OF6U IU Ip HuiGuts OF qpoee tu bore ee sug (pe Wiis
COUMHON hood eayye jou couciqeaspys peak of aectibiieus pp poet hood ie pewwk weaned, amiouy coon 1
AECL biosbeine qieccunGl (Ben OL MUIep oY, Commo biteiess joqa7) pdanuh unioun -ecnu7 rcp ie
wads siytys 4}1982 19m0g “suaddey Kjaues siyy Ry Smoys p40da4 jroUORNY ay. “SYM URUUNY JapHBO? OF UITIg.
*9 WaWULIAGS & “sauNsMaU datInsauddo YSnosy) Paysiqersa Aju st Apansas aouo pry xandse owse |}249e
TURNILN punos jo 3dwexd Ue sR |p se Ay POA BURP SUR USUI ascuUdMs jo UOHREDIIMIU! DYp SAN []AIY
