The Davidsonian/Friday, April 8, 1983 9

SPORTS —

In Baseball

Cats Give U.S.C. a Run for their Money

By BOBBY BARNES

The Davidson baseball team came
within two feet and two debatable calls of
pulling off the biggest upset in college
sports since, well, since N.C. State beat
Houston. The 18th ranked University of
South Carolina pulled out a 9-6 victory
over a scrappy Wildcat team Wednesday
night in Columbia before some 300 fans.

The Cats wasted no time convincing
the Gamecocks that they came to play as
catcher Philip Gordon chased home John
’ Mahoney with a first-inning home run to
left. U.S.C. battled back with a pair of
runs in the bottom half of the inning to tie
the game. They then took the lead with a
run in the third only to fall behind as
David Emery drilled a two-run single to
put the Cats ahead 4- 3. The see-saw con-
tinued with U.S.C. tying the score in the
fourth and going ahead in the fifth.

The Cats refused to die. They
threatened in the sixth to chase the start-
ing pitcher and then came up with a pair
of runs in the seventh off South
Carolina’s ace reliever to knot the score.
Gamecock third baseman John Sullivan
put his team ahead for good with a
seventh inning homer that just cleared a
short centerfield fence.

Scott Weaver (1-3) took the loss des-
pite pitching his best game of the season.

Seniors Philip Gordon and David Emery’

led the Cats — each with two hits and
two RBIs in four at bats.

Davidson opened the 1983 confer-
ence schedule with a pair of losses to
league-leading East Tennessee State. In
the opener, the Buccaneers topped the
Wildcats 14-1. ETSU broke open a close
game with six runs in a wild fifth inning
that featured the ejection of Coach
Geroge Greer and starting pitcher Bob
Barnes. Much of the controversy which

sparked the debate centered around a
swing that everyone saw except the two
umpires (how both of them could miss

something so obvious is still a mystery). °

The Bucs continued to pound out hits off
relieve: Doug Wiley while the Cats could
offer no threat at the plate. Scott Weaver,
leading the team in hitting, drove in the
only run with a fourth inning single.
ETSU took the second game 11-3 to
complete the sweep. Again, the game
was close until the Bucs scored six times
in the final frame. Back-to-back home

runs to lead off the inning sent starter
Matt Walker (2-2) to the showers; four
more runs marked the end to a string of
successful relief performances by Ed
Whitesides. In all, the visitors hit seven
roundtrippers.

The Cats proved more aggressive at
the plate, collecting ten hits — half com-
ing from the last two hitters in the lineup,
Al Baldwin and Chip Knox. unfortu-
nately, they managed to strand eleven
runners. Characteristic of the day for the
Cats was in the second inning when

Davidson bunched three singles together
with one out, but came up empty on the
scoreboard. Baldwin had three hits, in-
cluding a couble, and Knox and Keith
Helfant each had two.

The Cats travel to Charleston Mon-
day to play conference power The
Citadel. The Bulldogs finished second to
South Carolina in the Atlantic Regionals
in las\years NCAA tournament. Barnes
and Walker will take the mound for
Davidson.

DC Tennis Defeats Carolina

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

Davidson’s Men’s Tennis team (8-6)
posted a rain-delayed victory over West-
ern Carolina yesterday. The wet weather
postponed the final four matches, yet be-
fore the rains set in, Davidson’s top five
singles won five of nine matches sched-
uled to assure the rain-shortened victory.
Tennis Coach Jeff Frank complained that
the weather had “wrecked the team’s
practice and play schedule” all season.

Earlier this week the Cats postponed
their match against Johnson C. Smith
University due to rain. Despite such
problems Frank feels the team “‘is play-
ing as well as it has all season.”

The Cats go against conference oppo-
nents Marshall and VMI this weekend,
and good play will be particularly impor-
tant. These teams are in Davidson to play
several matches in one weekend, thus
saving time and money. Davidson needs
to establish momentum going into the
tough final weeks of the season when
they face strong UT-C and Furman
teams.

BETES Bote.

John Ha

-From the Locker Room: The Athletic Complex —

ckett swings for Davidson

}

J

By STEVE SOUD

A debate will rage among Davidson folk for years
to come: it will concern the proposed athletic com-
plex. Last week’s treatment of the subject in The
Davidsonian was unfair; I- should like to present a
more encompassing view.

Present demands on Johnston Gym eclipse its ca-
pacity. It was built for a sub-1000 member all-male
student body. Its locker facilities are barely adequate.
Office space is cramped. As many as six varsity
teams, not to mention intramurals and physical edu-
cation, compete for gym space in the winter. Quarters
were so cramped that intramural games were nearly
forced to Saturdays. Anyone who has tried to play
pickup basketball on a winter weekday knows how
limited gym.space really is. Consequently, Davidson
needs a new athletic complex.

The preeminent reason for a new gym and arena is
the space dilemma. If men’s and women’s varsity
basketball had a new practice area, it would open
about six hours a day. Secondary uses for the gym
would have far greater flexibility. As it is now, there

is little open time in the gum.

Davidson has committed itself to a strong, Divi-
sion I basketball program, and this goal cannot be
realized without a new facility. The basketball pro-
gram cannot recruit to its greatest potential with
2600-seat Johnston Gym. When Davidson competes
with Richmond for a player, Richmond has a head
start because of their new arena. Most schools in the
Southern Conference (Marshall, VMI, UT-
Chatanooga, East Tennessee, Western Carolina)
have either completed new athletic complexes or
have plans to do so. It is not a matter of “keeping up
with the Joneses.” It is a matter of surviving in the
fast-paced world of college basketball. If Davidson is
serious about a strong basketball program, it must
have something more than rickety, cramped Johnston
Gym.

Building a new complex comparable to others
does not imply a “Xanadu” nor does it imply some
overwhelming commitment to athletics. The plans
for the building are neither for a Xanadu nor for a
“Spartan” building. To build a no-frill complex re-
quires an enormous monetary commitment. David-

son would cheat itself to put $14 million into a com-
plex and not add a few frills at relatively little extra
cost. The immense expenditure does not imply a de-
emphasis of academics. Just because the College
spent $3.6 million on the Commons does not mean
we are to become nationally famous for eating! Notre
Dame, Stanford, Michigan, UNC, and UVA are all
known for excellence in athleticsand academics.

A new athletic complex can only enhance David-
son’s reputation. Davidson is little known outside the
Carolinas and Georgia; when people know its name,
it is most often bacause of the basketball program. If
the basketball program returns to prominence, it will
not only pay for itself (UT-Chattanooga made over
$100,000 for their one NCAA tournament game), but
it will also bring more applicants, from whom better
students may be chosen. It is Davidson's new and re-
vamped facilities — the library, the Commons, the
Union, the chemistry building — which attract qual-
ity students. Better facilities will bring better stu-
dents. If Davidson is to become the forward-looking
institution it claims to be, it must build the new athle-
tic complex.

