Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian 11

SPORTS

Dawkins-Led Blue Devils Dunk Wildcats 90-63

By STEVE SOUD

See Johnny run. See Johnny shoot.
See Johnny dunk.

The Johnny Dawkins show — alias
Duke basketball — came to town Satur-
day night, and despite getting taken out
of its game plan early, the show went on
to a 90-63 win. Dawkins was awesome:
34 points (12 of 23 from the field, 10 of
11 from the line), 13 rebounds, and three
steals. The exposition included two
dunks and two superhuman one-on-one
open court moves that left fans flabber-
gasted.

But Davidson had a chance to steal
the show from the start. As expected,
Duke came out with hard man-to-man
pressure, but early fouls pushed the Blue
Devils back into a tight zone. Davidson
worked up an early 5-0 lead. After seven
minutes, Davidson still held the lead, 1 1-
10, but that soon vanished. Wildcat shots
jangled around the rim and fell out; Blue
Devil shots graced only net. By halftime
Duke had lurched to a 44-25 lead.

BEST EATIN'ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
along this money-savin’ Coupon.
ee) Ge) ee) ee) eee) ee ee)

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

The Wildcats came out in the second
half intent upon erasing their deficit.
They did so as Kenny Wilson and Gerry
Born provided needed scoring punch,
and a lackadaisical Duke offense floun-
dered. With 14:30 remaining, Davidson
cut the lead down to 40-52, and the
crowd was getting back in the game. But
the officials whistled eight straight fouls
against Davidson to kill the rally. Mean-
while there was Dawkins. He took over
for Duke and dispatched of the Cats rela-
tively easily.

Davidson Coach Bobby Hussey
searched for things his team had done
well, and found a few. The Blue Devils
had shot only 43.1 percent from the field,
and the turnover margin, at 44 (27-33)
was close. Far more glaring, however,
was Davidson’s .323 field goal percen-
tage and -15 (40-55) rebound margin.

Aside from sophomore Ken Niebuhr
(1 of | FG, 5 of 6 FT, 3 rebounds, 7
points in 10 minutes), no Wildcats
played consistently well. Born (4 of 6 for

visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

| Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per

combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours |

through May 31, 1984.

only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants g
: c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc. ; lardees

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 — |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per

combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at

| visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in i

participating Hardee’s Restaurants through |

May 31, 1984.

c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

Hardees |

8 points) was a pleasant surprise. Kenny
Wilson suffered a dismal shooting night
(5 of 16 FG) but still managed to be the
game’s second leading scorer, thanks in
part to 7 of 8 free throw shooting.

Nearly all who saw the game must at
some point have remarked to them-
selves, If Duke didn’t have Johnny Daw-
kins, they wouldn’t be that good. Unfor-
tunately, Duke has Johnny Dawkins.

Penn

What one might have expected
against Duke happened against Penn.
The Quakers jumped to an early lead
through a strong press.

Throughout. the game Davidson
threatened to climb back into contention
with several well-played scoring sports.
But each time Davidson closed to within
three, Penn would come up with the cru-
cial play: forcing a turnover, or making a

clutch steal. When Davidson resorted to
fouling late in the game, the Quakers,
unwavered, made their free throws — in-
cluding 15 in a row. They won handily,
69-59.

Kenny Wilson led all scores with 23
points. He was 8 of 12 from the field and
7 of 10 from the line. Rafael Hernandez
was the Wildcats’ second-leading scorer
(8 points) and had a game-high 6 re-
bounds.

Wofford

The Wildcats opened their season
with a 73-67 win over Wofford.

Davidson led 33-25 at halftime, but
the Terriers closed in with about 15:00
left. Kenny Wilson came on to score 21
points (8 of 9 FG, 5 of 7 FT) in the second
half. He finished with 25 points. Ted
Wolfe was the only other Wildcat in dou-
ble figures (10).

Harriers End Season

By RAND HARTSELL

The Davidson Wildcat cross-country
team members ended their season in
Kenosha, Wisconsin, quite a way from
the security of the friendly, familiar sur-
roundings of their respective homes. The
Wildcat harriers had to suffer through a
muddy course and concluded their ’83
season on something less than a bright
note at the NAIA National Champion-
ships on November 19.

Somehow, the ’Cats managed to put
together yet another order of finish; in
every meet this season they finished in a
different order. Frank Ivey, who had en-
tertained thoughts of All-America hon-

-——Athlete Of The Week—

This week’s Athlete of the Week is
Kenny Wilson. The 6-5 senior forward
led the Wildcats in scoring in each of
the three games last week. He had 25
points in the season opening win over
Wofford. Against Penn, Wilson
scored 23 points, including crucial
baskets in the final minutes which kept
the Wildcats in contention. Saturday,
in the 90-63 loss to ACC member
Duke, he led the team again with 17

points.

ors, led the ’Cats as he placed 90th in a
field of nearly 400 competitors.

Brian Zielinski explored new terri-
tory as the number two runner for David-
son for the first time this season. “I was
last in the nation at the half-mile mark ,”
Zielinski said in reference to his slow
Start. Jim Rogers ran one of his best races
of the season placing third for the Cats.
Trey Jammes and Frank Hague rounded
out the Cats’ scoring.

The Cats, marking their first-ever
showing in the NAIA National Cham-
pionships, placed 32nd.

" Wine & Beer by the case:

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
28036
892-7521

Keg beer:
Cost plus 10%

Order in advance—

Cost plus 10%

