Concert Choir

Will Perform
Brahms

The Davidson Concert Choir will
perform a Brahms Sesquecentennial
Program at 9 p.m. during this Sunday’s
Vesper Concert in Hodson Hall.

The Choir, under the direction of
Vladimir Morosan, will perform the
motet Opus 29, No. 2, and three other
Brahms works—“All’meine Herzge-
danken”; ‘“‘Abendstandchen,” Opus 42,
No. 1; and “Nachtwache I.”

Tenor Richard Kennedy and pianist
Joel Harrison will be featured in four
songs by Brahms, and the Sonata in E-
flat, Opus 120, No. 2 will be performed
by James Ogibene, clarinet, and James
G. Swisher, piano.

School Will
Study Students’
Adjustment

The Department Chairman, School
Director, and College Advisor of the
North Carolina School of Science and
- Math (NCSSM) are coming to David-

son to study their students’ adjustment
to academic life in college.

The day’s activities will include.
conversations with faculty advisors, ad-
ministrators, and hall counselors.

The students from NCSSM current-
ly enrolled at Davidson, who are all now
freshmen, are: Lee Bulwinkle, Julia
Danek, Susan Herbert, Roger: Kromer,

_ Robert Lee, Shelley Lineberger, and
Arthur Norville.

Note

Gill Holland has been elected to the fi
sition on the Faculty Advisory Com
Frittee for the presidential search.

*2500 in thefts reported during January

By DUNCAN FRASER °86

Fourteen students and one faculty
member have been victims of on-cam-
pus thefts totalling about $2500 since
the beginning of February.

According to Sgt. Henry Cook of
the Campus Security, the string of thefts
began on | February when the Athletic
Department reported the theft of a Swiss
time clock valued at $175. The follow-
ing day Roy Martin reported the theft of
his 1982 12-speed green Schwinn bicy-
cle, valued at $380.

On 3 February, Director of the Rid-
ing Program Nancy Hoffman reported
the theft of $600 in camera equipment
from her car parked in Jackson Court.
The most expensive theft occurred on 4
February when Kevin Attar’s 1979 Ca-
maro was stripped of $800 in stereo
equipment, tape cassettes, a Texas In-
strument Calculator, a pool stick and

case, and a briefcase.

Three students’ wallets were stolen
from the track locker room 5 February.
Manning McGraw lost $10; James Wil-
son, $14; and Nick Donovan his wallet.
Donovan’s wallet, which contained no
money when it was stolen, was later rec-
overed in a gym commode.

Sunday, 6 February, John Mahoney
reported the theft of his wallet and $8
fromn his dorm room. On Monday,
Kathy Gingrich reported the theft of
$417 in clothes, camera equipment and
other personal items from her locked
car. The same day, Matthew Walker re-
ported $8 and his wallet missing from
his dorm room.

Four thefts occurred this past Tues-
dayu when Chery! Soderstrom, Lauren
Van Metre, and Suzanne Gilmore re-
ported thefts of clothes from their room
totalling $60, $15, and $41, respective-
ly.

Philosophy and Religion
Departments Will Change

By DAN VOORHIS ’84

There will be one retirement from
the Religion and Philosophy depart-
ments, and several professors are re-
turning from sabbatical.

Chairman of the Religion Department
Daniel Rhodes will retire at the end of
this year but will stay on to teach one
course next year. Rhodes, 65, came to
Davidson in 1960.

His wife will retire from teaching at
North Mecklenburg High School at the
end of next year.

“We are looking forward to this as a
new experience,” said Rhodes, “we
plan to take a long-delayed trip to Eng-
land, and perhaps to France and
Greece.” He also plans to do some writ-
ing.

Professor Samuel Maloney will go on
sabbatical in the spring next year and

The Davidson ROTC Department is
now offering new two- and three-year
academic scholarships. Both Scholar-
ships provide for full tuition, related
academic fees, textbooks, and a $100
monthly living allowance. Individual
scholarship value will be approximately
$6,900 for school year 1983-84.

Current sophomores may compete

will be replaced that term by Professor
Emeritus Dewitz from Columbia Semi-
nary. Professor Dewitz will teach a
course on the Psalms.

Earl MacCormac, Chairman of the

Philosophy department, will return to
teach in the spring. He spent this year
working with Dean of Admissions John
Griffith designing a new method of eva-
luating incoming freshmen. Last year
Professor MacCormac researched the
philosophical implications of rate
changes for Duke Power Company.
’ After a year’s abscence, Professor
Lance Stell, will return next fall. He is
presently working on group rights at the
National Humanities Center in the re-
search triangle.

There is also the possibility of a new
professor to teach part time in the phil-
osophy department next year.

ROTC Offers More Scholarships

for Two-Year Scholarships and fresh-
men for Three-Year awards. Applica-
tion deadlines are February 21 and April
4 respectively.

According to Assistant Professor of
Military Science Captain Albert Power
40 percent of the scholarships are re
served for outstanding students ar
campus leaders not currently enrolled
ROTC training.

The most recent theft occurred
Wednesday when Nick Lowthe report-
ed the loss of $30 in cash and his wallet
from the gym.

Sgt. Cook would not speculate
whether the individuals invlolved in the
thefts were a part of the college commu-
nity. However, he did have advice for
the College concerning the increase in
thefts. “Students need to begin locking
up their possessions — dorm rooms,
cars, bikes, gym lockers. Just locking
up could save many students from being
robbed.”

When asked about the perception
among students that the Honor Code al-
lows doors to remain unlocked, Cook
replied, “The Honor Code is good only
for those who believe in it.” Apparent-
ly, those involved in these robberies,
whether on or off campus, do not.

Students to use
ICES this term

By JEFF MANN ’84

The Faculty voted last week to drop
the ICES numerical evaluation forms in
favor of a prose format for student eva-
luation of professors. However, Vice
President fr Academic Affairs and Dean
of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann
announced this week that the forms
have already ‘arrived and a new form
will not be used for courses this term.
Zimmermann said that professors may
use the ICES forms if they would like
this term but are not obligated to release
the data to the Dean. There will be no
other official evaluation form.

Last night, the SGA approved a res-
olution from The Davidsonian con-
demning the Faculty’s decision to drop
the ICES forms in favor of prose forms
without prior student input, and called
for students to include numerical ratings
of the course content, course in general,
and the instructor on a scale of one to ten
in any prose evaluations. These ques-
tions mirror the global questions on the
ICES forms. The resolution also en-
courages students to indicate whether
they agree with the Faculty decision to
drop the ICES forms in the.comments
section.

In.a second resolution, the SGA de-
cided to make numerical evaluation
forms with the above questions availa-
ble to students on the last of classes this
term. These forms will have a space to
indicate whether the student filled out a
form in class to avoid double-weighting
of students’ opinions. These forms will
be provided to Dean Zimmermann.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
