The Davidsoniaw

Friday, March 25. 1983.3

SGA Weekend Underway |

Davidson Hosts Seventy Prospectives

By DAN VOORHIS

Davidson College is playing host to
about 70 prospective students during the
annual SGA Weekend which began yes-
terday afternoon. These potential mem-
bers of the class of ‘87 will be informed
about college life and entertained until
midday tomorrow.

High school seniors from all over the
country and abroad are invited for three
days of non-stop activity to give them a
taste of “the Davidson experience.” They
attend talks, dinners, tours, classes,
dances, movies, and even have a few
precious hours of free time.

“Of course we’re showing the pro-
spectives Davidson in the best light, but
all the fraternities, and faculty, and
people they see would be the same as if
they were students,” said Chairman of
SGA Weekend Ester Kim.

Although the final number of partici-

pants was unclear until the program
started Thursday, about 70 prospectives
had sent in acceptances.

“They are the most highly qualified
candidates from all over the country,”
said Admissions Counselor Alex McCal-
lie. The College sent invitations to this
year’s top 300 applicants, then let the
student organizers go to work. “Ulti-
mately, it is the attitude and behavior of
the students that will affect them [the
prospectives],” said McCallie.

Students carry out the entire job of
planning and executing the SGA
Weekend. Ester Kim oversees the event,
because she chairs both the Student Ad-
missions Team and the SGA Admissions
Committee. Last year she co-chaired the
weekend with Warren Overbey.

Subcommittees involved in the
Weekend include: Programming, led by
Lindsey Rader and Vickie Neale; Enter-

Academic/Social Balance Demanded

Library Staff Compiles Questionnaire

By JOHN SYME

The results of the library noise ques-
tionnaire circulated last Fall indicate that
students feel there should be a balance
between the social and academic aspects
of the library.

The results, which the library staff
compiled last week, reflect the opinions
of 25 percent of the student body. Two
hundred participants were randomly
selected by computer. to receive ques-
tionnaires, and the remaining 144 re-
sponded to a stack of identical question-
naires available ion the library.

Distribution according to sex and
C:aSS approximated Davidson nortns.
Complete statistics and responses are
posted near the entrance to the library.

Student opinion on the need for noise
control varied from none to a suggestion
for employing a SWAT team. Of stu-
dents polled, 37.8 percent said they
would use the library more if it were
quieter, 55.4 percent said they would use
it about the same, and 6.8 percent said
they would use it less.

One student said that the noise level
in the library is “indicative of the skewed
social situation at Davidson, where the
students have to go to the library to have
fun.”

Other students liked the social aspect
of the library, and one asked, “What is
every college library but a place to see
friends and influence people?” Many stu-
dents mentioned the Code of Responsi-
bility, and one went as far as to equate
making noise in the library with lying
and cheating.

Students offered many solutions:
signs (“No socializing — study — make
A’s!”’), monitors, regulated noise zones,
going to the Union, and “self-policing.”
Other noise problems mentioned in-
cluded squeaky chairs, computer termi-
nals (particularly in the 24-hour study
room), loudly banging doors, and the in-

tainment, led by Steve Reardon; Trans-
portation, under Garry Banks and Brad
Perkins; Publicity, chaired by Garry
Banks; and Housing, under Chuck
Lampley.

The Transportation committee ran
drivers down to the Charlotte airport, bus
terminal, and train station, using College
vehicles.

The prospectives dined at the Com-
mons last night with presentations by
Will Terry and various students. Anne
Miano explained the Honor Code and
academics; Suzanne Dickey discussed
Patterson Court and the Union; Mitzi
Short spoke on the Black Student Coali-
tion, SGA, and extra-curriculars; and
Steve Soud pontificated on sports.

After dinner the new arrivals experi-
enced the ubiquitous “people hunt” and
square dance.

The pre-frosh stay in student dormit-

Students chat at the circulation desk in the library

evitable book-card stamper.

Library Director, Leland Park agrees
with the student who wrote that “it is up
to the students to make the library what
they want it to be.” he said that the gen-
eral thrust of the responses was, “This is
our place, and we’ll take care of it.” Park
stressed the importance of students feel-
ing comfortable with the library staff,
since their job is to help students with li-
brary resources, not to “shoosh” them.
The social aspect of the library pleases
Park, except for the truly thoughtless

people, and it would be “a little chicken”
of students to insist on official monitors.

Designers of E.H. Little Library con-
centrated on the intrinsically noisy places
on purpose. Head of Serials and Docu-
ments Cindy Pendergraft said that there
is always someplace quiet to go, and
“anybody dumb enough to sit down in
the middle of all the confusion we’ ve had
on this [first] floor tonight, well, that’s
what they’ll have.” Associate Dean of
Students Sue Ross commented that the
Davidson library is “one of the pleasant

ory rooms, mostly on the floor, matres-
ses, or couches. The Housing committee
has tried to assign as many prospectives
to freshmen as possible. According to
Lampley, the freshmen would have the
most in common with the prospects. In
fact, many of the class of ’86 went to the
SGA Weekend last year. More than one
prospective will be placed on a hall to
promote companionship, staying both
Thursday and Friday nights.

While the hosts are not obligated to
do more than house them, the organizers
hope that the prospectives will hear a
more personal view of the college from
these students.

Today was a day crammed with ac-
tivities, including a sample of both
academic and social fare of Davidson.

To gain an everyday knowledge of
studies, the prospectives will attend two
introductory courses in areas of their
choice.

Longer range academic experience
comes from the Departmental/Profes-
sional panel discussion. Here the candi-
dates will hear faculty, alumni, and stu-
dents consider the value of Davidson
education in four broad areas: pre-medi-
cal, pre-law, business, and communica-
tions.

Prospectives will meet students and
faculty at a reception today at 5:00 in the
Gallery.

Most of the remaining time is de-
voted to having fun and investigating the
social life at Davidson. Groups of 8-10
spread out and sampled Patterson Court
for lunch today. Afterwards they partici-
pated in a scavenger hunt.

Regular College activities will con-
tribute to the carnival atmosphere of the
weekend. Three discos, one in the 900
Room on Thursday, one at the BSC, and
another at KA on Friday will allow them
to dance to their hearts’ content. A Fine
Film and Raiders of the Lost Ark will pro-
vide movie entertainment. Two men’s
tennis matches and a baseball game
should satisfy the sports enthusiasts.

In addition, the prospectives will at-
tend a formal banquet tonight at the
Commons. Senior Mike Mason _ will
speak on his impressions of Davidson
during the festivities.

The SGA Weekend favorably im-
pressed students who attended it last
year. Freshman John Gilmer said that it
was one of his deciding factors in coming
to Davidson. “It was a good thing be-
cause it gives you a good feel for the Col-
lege. And we had a lot of fun,” said
Gilmer. Although the Weekend is neces-
sarily a distorted view of Davidson, “‘it is
as accurate as two days can be.”

Sophomore Chuck Lampley who
came in 1981 agrees, “What you see over
the Weekend is what you see as a stu-
dent.” He also said that the Weekend was
a good mix of academics and social life.
It definitely influenced his choice be-
cause “other schools only have an inter-
view and tour.”

But Freshman Elodie McMillan dis-
agreed. “You never really got to meet
any of the students because you were al-
ways doing something.
