2 Friday, April 15,:1983/The Davidsonian

NEWS SUMMARY

Klarinette-Klavier Duo To Perform

The Klarinette-Klavier Duo will perform at Davidson College April 17 at 9 p.m.
in the 900 Room of the Colege Union. Pianist Barbara McKenzie-Ware and
clarinetist Edward Allan Ware will perform works by Mendelssohn, Hoffmeis-
ter, Debussy, Weber and Iain Hamilton.

The husband-and-wife duo, who now live in Detmold, West Germany, are
no strangers to Davidson College. Edward Ware graduated from Davidson in
1974. He continued his studies at the Peabody Conservatory of Music of Johns
Hopkins University. While attending Peabody Ware served with the Army Field
Band stationed at Fort Meade, Maryland. He was later awarded a Fulbright
Scholarship to study in West Germany because of his artistry on the clarinet.

Barbara Ware completed both the bachelor of music and master of music de-
grees at the Peabody Conservatory.

The Klarinette-Klavier Duo performance will conclude Davidson’s vesper
concert series. The concert is open to the public without charge and will also be
broadcast live on WDAV-FM (89.9), Davidson’s radio for the arts.

New Scholarship Fund Created

The Jefferson-Pilot Corporation of Greensboro, NC has awarded $50,000 to
Davidson College for use in an endowed scholarship fund designed to provide
up to five scholarships. Scholarship recipients, designated Jefferson-Pilot
Scholars in recognition of the corporation's gift, will be selected solely on the
basis of financial need.

Patterson Court Committee to Hold Open Forum

The SGA Patterson Court Study Committee (PCSC) will be holding an open
forum on its selection proposal this Monday at 4:30 in the Chambers Gallery.

The Committee has revised its proposal in response to student feedback dur-
ing its last open meeting. The committee will discuss the changes and any alter-
native proposals at the forum.

“We'd like to get a definite proposal to present to the SGA by Tuesday
night,” said PCSC Chairman Warren Gould.

Last week the PCSC ended the first phase of its investigation into self-selec-
tion with a rough draft proposal designed to define self-selection “more openly
and accurately.”

Julius Chambers Speaks at Davidson

Julius Chambers, a prominent civil rights attorney from Chrarlotte, spoke
about the South African Black Lawyers Association Monday night in the 900
Room. His visit was sponsored by Amnesty International.

Black lawyers are working from within to inch South Africa’s racist apar-
theid system toward change, Chambers said. They hope their efforts will lessen
the violence of the revoluation most consider inevitable in South Africa.

The Association needs a government license, which it may not receive with-
out public pressure from the United States, according to Chambers. He urged his
audience to write letters to South African officials encouraging them to grant this
license.

Chambers vividly described the plight of South African Blacks, who cannot
live in the cities, supervise a White man, or rent a Hertz car. Black lawyers work
in constant fear of arrest because of sweeping anti-insurrection laws and because
it is technically illegal for Black professionals to rent office space in the cities.

Chambers and his wife visited South Africa last fall with a delegation of
American Black attorneys and judges. He described meeting with persons under
“banning orders” (house arrest) who could only be in a room with one person, in-
cluding family members, at a time. Chambers himself was briefly detained by
police on suspicion of being a communist spy.

The Devideonion is published Frideys during the echool year by the students of Devideon Collage.

Addrose

2000 ext. 248 and 149. Offices located on the top fieor of the Grey Gtudent Union. Subsoriptionscest

$12 per veer. Advertieing rates evellable on request. Secnod clase postage ppd st Devideon, North
ine 20096.

to: The Devideonien, Box 218, Deviceon, N.C. 28036. Phone (706) G8a-.

Dan Voorhis,Duncan Fraser, News Editors
Thurston Hatcher, Features Editor

Barry Elledge, Opinions Editor

Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Anderson Scott, Photography Editor
Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor

Jeff Mann, Associate Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Axe

Spencer To Receive Honorary Degree From Queens

College President Samuel R. Spencer will receive a Doctor of Humane Let-
ters degree from the faculty and trustees of Queens College at its May 14 com-
mencement.

To be presented by Queens President Billy O. Wireman, the degree will rec-
ognize Spencer’s devotion to higher education and position as an eminent schol-
ar and historian.

Spencer’s degree will be one of four conferred at the Queens graduation May
14 at 10 a.m. in the Dana Auditorium at Queens College in Charlotte.

Degree May Be Worth As Much As A Million

(CPS) College graduates earn about 40 percent more over a lifetime than non-
grads, but men continue to earn about twice as much as women regardless of
educational attainment, a new Census Bureau study shows.

Male college grads can expect to earn from $1.2 to $2.75 million over a
lifetime, according to the study, while male high school grads will take in only
$860,000 to $1.87 million:

Women, on the other hand, will make from $520,000 to $1.2 million if they
have college degrees, and between $380,000 and $800,000 with only high
school diplomas, the study reports.

SGA Appoints New Committee Chairmen
The SGA has appointed new chairmen for the following committees:
Women's Impact Study Committee — Chris Blake
Semester System Implementation Committee — Beadsie Woo and Allen
Mast
Leadership Training Committee — Brad Uline
Faculty Evaluation Study Committee — Jon Hain
Activities Tax Council — Mark Tully
All were unanimously approved by the Senate.

Housing Lottery Approaches
The room assignment process for the 1983-84 school year begins when
rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors select lottery numbers April 14 and
15.
Other important lottery deadlines include:
Perimeter house requests due 8:30 a.m. April 14
‘Room retention/single room requests due 8:30 April 20
‘Room selections and roommate choices due 5 p.m. April 22
‘Room deposits for ’83-83 due April |.
For further details see the Housing Office’s lottery information sheet
which has been distributed to all student rooms, or contact the Housing of-
fice at ext. 188 (office hourse Mon.-Fri. 9:00-12:30 and 1:30-5:00).

Draft And Financial Aid Separated Again

(CPS) The U.S. Dept. of Justice has warned the U.S. Dept. of Education to
stop even going through the motions of making male financial aid applications
swear they’ve registered with the Selective Service.

In what one source called a ‘‘strongly worded” statement, the Justice Dept.
Says any further Education Dept. efforts to require youn men to register might
violate a preliminary injunction issued last month in Minnesota against the law
linking military registration to federal financial aid.

In that ruling, U.S. District Court Judge Donald Alsop said the law may vio-
late students’ protections against self-incrimination, and enjoined the govern-
ment from enforcing the law until the full case against the government is hear
this July.

Until the recent warning from the Justice Dept., however, Education offi-
cials have been assuming Alsop’s injunction applied only to his federal court
district in Minnesota, says Dept. of Education spokesman Duncan Helmrich.

News Staff: Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor; Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford,
Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Holland, John Ruppenthal, Mike Tantillo
Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jon Glance, Bob Finch,
John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks, Matt Morris, Tracy
Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Peggy Pierotti, Assistant Photography Editor; Neil Cooksey,
Angelique Foster, Ann Hunter

Business Staff: David McCurry, Kurt Henjes, William White

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, Jim Morgan

