By STEVE SOUD 84

Davidsonian Quiz:

Q: What do no. |-ranked Indiana, no. 3 Kentucky,
and no. 6 UCLA all have in common with Davidson?

A: They’ re the only four teams to beat Notre Dame
so far this year, the last one coming as Davidson pulled
out a 54-51 overtime thriller last Tuesday night in
Charlotte.

By all odds, Davidson never should have come
close to beating the Irish. Consider all the things going
for Notre Dame:

—They were coming off a strong 83-60 win over
William and Mary, the same team that nipped David-
son, 46-44, last year.

—All-American guard John Paxson.

—They’re nine players deep.

—Their own padre, brought along to entreat the aid
of the Almighty.

Now, consider the things going against Davidson:

—They were coming off two consecutive losses in
Massachusetts.

—Not enough depth to play more than six at this
point.

When you get right down to it, there was only one
thing going for the Wildcats:

—Heart. (And maybe TV time-outs. )

Heart was the one thing the oddsmakers didn’t take
into account. It was the heart of four long-embattled se-
niors and two juniors who had never won the really big
game. It was the heart of the young players on the
bench, who, in marked contrast to the Notre Dame
bench, spent most of the game on their feet, cheering
on their teammates.

Truly, this team’s “cominunal heart” is too big for
the Charlotte Coliseum. Senior point guard John Car-
roll, the evening’s star with 12 points and 5 assists, has
been persistently and painfully reminded of a back in-
jury all season, and yet he dove for loose balls with
reckless abandon and complete disdain for his injury.
Brian Rowan, who had an horrendous 0-for-3 first
half, courageously battled back to hit a drought-break-
ing field goal and the clutch free throws that put the
game on ice. Cliff Tribus scrapped for rebounds from
one corner of the court to another. Richard Wilson
played maddeningly tough defense. And of course,
Kenny Wilson, well . . . Kenny Wilson was just plain
Kenny Wilson.

In a game in which the margin was only once great-
er than four points, heart was the telltale difference in
the outcome.

In the first half, the lead changed hands constantly.
After scoring, Davidson entered an effective 2-2-1
zone press that slowed down the Irish, but it was the
Wildcats’ outstanding 3-2 zone that kept Notre Dame
from receiving many terribly open shots. Paxson was
so well contained that the Irish guard didn’t get a shot
off until nearly eight minutes had been played. When
he finally got one off, he was off-balance and in mo-
tion.

“ade

Remember Duke?

Sports

Cats take Notre Dame in OT

54-51 Victory brings back days of old glory

All photos by Neil Cooksey ’83

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983

23
