6 Friday, April 8, 1983/The Davidsonian |

Pies Assassinate

By THURSTON HATCHER

The other day as I walked out of
class, I suddenly knew it wasspring. No,
the romantic couples in the hallway
didn’t tell me. Neither did the cloudy
skies outside. It was something more —
it was a feeling that came over me. It was
paranoia.

The Pie Assassins are back in full
form this year, and the Phi Delt pledge
with the black wig on his head told me
so. Every time I see a suspicious-looking
character I feel certain he has a pie to
throw right at me. This time he didn’t,
but I’m staying inside and locking my
door just in case.

No one has shelled out a dollar to hit
me yet, but seventy other people have in-
vested in seeing their distant friends or
close enemies get the shaving cream
treatment.

Phi Delta Theta initiated the Pie As-
sassin business two years ago as a fun-
draising idea and it opened with mixed
reviews. Students had a great time with
it, but the faculty found that it left a bad
menthol taste in their mouths, so last year

they were eliminated as targets.

The shaving cream assassinations
pose one significant problem in that the
personal intentions behind them range
from friendly revenge to murderous ven-
dettas. Some people give and receive the

pies understanding that it’s all fluffy
white fun. But about one-fourth of the

victims end up angry or in tears over an
incident.

A victim of recent attack at PAX
found herself bewildered and confused
over the incident. “It was very unex-
pected and sneaky,” she says. “I won-
dered who hated me that much.”

An anonymous assassin says that he
just doesn’t worry how someone will re-
spond. “I don’t really think about it,” he
says. “I just do it and get the hell out of
there.”

Don’t get the man wrong, though. He
does have a sensitive spot in his heart.
When asked whether guilt ever rears its
head into the business, he responds,
“Guilty? Well, sometimes. One time this
girl gave us a puppy dog look and we just
couldn’t hit her.”

Warner Hall Works Out

By EMMA CARNE

“Make sure the weight is in your
thighs, not your hands.” “Don’t lock
your knees!” This is Warner Hall at 6:45
on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday eve-
ning. Fleetwood Mac replaces the more
usual sounds of Styx and Michael
| Jackson, and the
living room is
filled with
4 young women

bending,
stretching, and
flexing under

the instruction
of sophomore

\.
4
<4 wie
Laura Taft.
Taft started muscle-toning classes in
Warner Hall winter term, when other
forms of exercise were strictly limited.
“It’s less popular now that the weather is
better and people can go outdoors more,”
she explained; even so, about 25 girls in
tracksuits, shorts, legwarmers, or tights

regularly attend the classes held three
times a week in the thickly carpeted liv-

ing room in the newest Patterson Court
eating house.

Taft attended classes last summer and
has the routines well in hand. She opens
with fairly gentle warming-up exercises,
giving frequent advice about posture and
technique. As the workout progresses,
the physical fitness and flexibility of
each girl is severely tested.

For women who cannot or prefer not
to run, swim, or participate in varsity
sports, this provides an excellent way to
keep fit; even so, an hour of such gruel-
ling work straight after dinner may well
seem a dauinting prospect. Most Warner
Hall members who do not take part ap-
pear to view the activities of the energetic
minority with amused indifference.

Taft has received a good response to
her program. At $25 for ten weeks many
consider the program a bargain, but par-
ticipants have actually noticed results.
Says Taft, “Everybody thinks it’s a real
effective program.”

Films

Klaatu and Gort Teach...

BY CRAIG DETWEILER

The Day The Earth Stood Still (1951), Directed by
Robert Wise; Starring Michael Rennie, Patricia Neal,
Hugh Marlowe, Sam Jaffe, and Gort. *** 1/2

Fans of the mindless, flashy, space wars in recent
cinema will not be interested in The Day The Earth Stood
Still. Those intrigued by thought-provoking, sincere,
and probable science fiction should be sure to catch this
Wednesday’s film.

Robert Wise’s The Duy The Earth Stood Still raises
serious questions about man’s responsibility and ac-
countability toward the weapons he creates. Made dur-
inf the height of Cold War tension in 1951, The Day The
Earth Stood Still is extremely relevant given the current
nuclear arms buildup.

An alien visitor, Klaatu, and his trusty robot, Gort,
come from outer space to deliver a prophetic warning.
Concerned about man’s bombs destroying their own
peaceful planet, Klaatu (Michael Rennie) and Gort
(Lock Martin) land in Washington, D.C. to call the
earth’s attention to the hostile arms race. Rather than
staging a sit-in or a demonstration, Klaatu offers a quiet
message to man about the need for peace. With qualities
similar to Christ, Klaatu attempts to communicate love
and brotherhood among men, and the harsh treatment
Klaatu receives parallels the rejection that Christ would
expérience if he were to come today. World leaders con-
vene and discuss what should be done about the ques-
tions Klaatu raises but ultimately rely upon the military
to deal with the visitors. ,

The Day The Earth Stood Still is alarming in its
realism and relevance to modern society; one readily
questions whether the attitudes in the Kremlin and the

White House differ any from the tunnelvision displayed |

by the leaders in the film.

Simple in its technical effects, The Day the Earth
Stood Still is bolstered by stirring, human performances.
Advanced for its period, the film pales in comparison to
modern cinema’s spaceships and piloting creatures. Di-
rection is clear and fast-paced because it centers around
the drama of the story rather than the pyrotechnics. One
does not wait for overwhelming space battles, but the
reactions of humans to a stressful situation. Michael Re-
nnie is superb as the humane extra-terrestial. His cool,

steady performance buoys the frantic, stretched acting of
his supporting players. Patricia Neal would appear
ridiculous if Rennie did not add a stable presence to her
hysteria. Neal’s “Klaatu barada nikto” scene is a classic
because of her difficulty in delivering silly lines. Most
lovable and memorable of all the characters is old iron-
side, the robot Gort. Gort reacts to the absurdity of the
guns and violence that surrounds him in a manner many

Time Bandits: a Brave

By MATT MORRIS

Time Bandits (1982) Produced by George Harrison, di-
rected by Terry Gillian; starring David Warner, John
Cleese, Michael Pacin, Shelly Duvall and Graham
Champan. Showings: 8:00 and 10:30, $1.50. Rating: **
* 1/2

Whenever a new film is released most critics tend to
push it into a certain genre and then attack or praise the
movie for how well it. follows “the rules” of that particu-
lar category. Some movies, like Citizen Kane defy any
particular style and make new rules while gleefully des-
troying the old standards. Time Bandits, a dazzling,
often dizzy, collage of all genres from science fiction to
Jonathan Swift, is no Kane but one can’t help admire its
joyfully jnnovative imagination and brave steps into the
unknown (and perhaps uncommercial) world of fantasy/
satire/social commentary. ,

Produced by George Harrison, who certainly has the
bread to dive into endeavors like this, Time Bandits is the
story of a young English lad who escapes ultra-material,
ultra-boring Earth and, with the help of six time travel-
ling dwarves realizes his wildest dreams. Along this
psychotic yellow brick road our hero meets up with such
illuminaries as Napolean (Ian Holm), Robin Hood (John
Clesse), and even God himself (Sir Ralph Richardson).
The film slides wildly from comedy to drama (of a sort)
reaching new heights of hilarity with Monty Python,
luminus John Cleese and moments of real compassion
by a beautifully restrained Sean Connery as Agamem-
non. Time Bandits’ conclusion is sheer genius and alone
makes the entire trip worthwhile.

would like to — he simply eliminates them. With clearly
defined heros and villains, The Day The Earth Stood Still
tugs at the viewer’s emotions.

We can learn much from this crude work of art
today, even if it is over thirty years old. With the danger
of nucledar annihiliation increasing daily, we should

stand still for a day to recognize the massive problem be-
fore us.

Sy

Shane 7 oe

Parts of Time Bandits, particularly the Napolean se-
quence, don’t work at all, and the Dwarves get to be a bit
much after a while, but I encourage the viewer to over-
look their faults and enjoy Time Bandits for what it is: a
delightful fully experimental movie with a real sensibil-
ity. Few films these days can say that.
