Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian 7

~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Drama Production Offers Light Entertainment

By Tom Pafford

Take a daughter from a family that is chaotic,
quirky, and “unsuccessful”, but relaxed and happy; and
marry her to the vice-president son from a successful,
staid, and internally troubled family--you have a myth
that still manages to entertain. The theater department’s
production of You Can't Take It With You uses this myth
and makes no pretentions of presenting any stirring so-
cial comment. The script by George S. Kaufman and
Moss Hart seems designed to provide comfortable enter-
tainment, and the theater dsepartment stays faithful to
this intention.

Maytin Vanderhoff, played by Jeff Mann, is the en-
lightened patriarch behind the Sycamore family. Thirty-
five years before the time of the play, he quit his 9 to S
job and decided to relax and enjoy life. He passed on his
laissez-faire attitude to the next generation, and, as the
play is set in his house, we see the daily activities of an
unusual family. Penelope Sycamore is a painter who
turned playwright when a delivery man mistakenly deli-
vered a typewriter to the house. Her daughter Essie uses
the whole house as a practice barre to support her aspira-
tions to dance ballet. Father Paul Sycamore experiments
with fireworks.

Not only are they uncommon by daily indulging their
dreams — the family structure is uncommon. Mr. De-
pinna dropped in eight years ago and stayed around to as-
sist with Paul’s experiments. Ed is married to Essie, but
it seems more like he was swallowed into the family than
formally taken in. Boris Kolenkhoy instructs Essie in
ballet and seems to come and go like a member of the
family.

The Kirby family doesn’t receive such close atten-
tion, but that is because they aren’t as interesting.
They're standard — the play supposes that we can infer
the structure of the Kirby family without seeing them,
and the seeing is an important difference between the
families. The Sycamores bring themselves and their
dreams out in the open; the Kirby’s keep their dreams
and squabbles under the cloak of aristocratic formality
and financial success. It takes something from outside
the family to uncover their insecurities.

33498

Tony and Alice embrace

That something from outside is Alice Sycamore. She
is the most conventional. member of the family; she
works for the Kirby's; and she falls in Tony Kirby, the
heir to his father’s business.

The conflict of the play comes from the opposition of
two different ideals of the family. For a basic, shallow
conflict, it could be laid out as a diagram. It doesn’t take
much characterization to understand that if you bring the
two families together you will have conflict, but no need
for resolution. The conflict becomes meaningful and
gains depth through the characters of Tony and Alice. At
this level, characterization is supremely important, be-
cause the audience must be made to understand that the
past of these characters — grounded in their families —
makes them question their present love. The play should
develop and resolve the the conflict through Tony and
Alice.

Laura McGee

Unfortunately, this is the weak point of the play. In
one scene, Alice, played by Jean Cooper, and Tony.
played by Forrest Williams, have returned from an eve-
ning at the ballet, and in the dim quiet of the Sycamore
house they discuss their love. Alice goes along with the
unquestioning love of Tony to a point, then she says it
will never work — their families are too unlike. Tony
seems to think that nothing should come in the way of
love. Possibly, Cooper should have more extreme at this
moment, more lamenting in her resigation that their love
cannot work. She doesn’t fully convey the experience of
a girl who has always been different from the other kids
at school. And Williams does not convey how his at-
titude of “all for love” means that he must put aside all
considerations of stability that his family has taught him
Instead he is consoling, and vague in his resolve.

If there is to be any depth of character in this play, we
should see it develop from this scene forward. Instead of
Cooper and Williams finding their identities in their
characters’ families, they must find their identities as
artist-manipulators of those families.

When the Sycamores meet the Kirbys, the actors
give us some terrific comedy. Particularly during a word
association game that Penny Sycamore masters, we find
that Mrs. Kirby is much more sexually curious and frus-
trated than Mr. Kirby. Merry mix-ups occur that eve-
ning, but in Act III, the next day, there is. of course, a
happy ending. However, the focus shifts to Mr. Kirby at
the end, and we never see much mors of Alice and Tony,
except to see that they are happy.

Since the play really doesn’t afford any dramatic de-
velopment of the characters, the stranger their idiosyn-
crasies are, the better. Scott Myers as Boris Kolenkov is
very strong — literally and figuratively, and Valerie
Hinton as Gay Wellington and Horace Jennings as Mr.
DePinna come across well.

You Can't Take it With You is entertaining. Just don't
go expecting thought-provoking drama. And it is proba-
bly not merely coincidence that the action of the play oc-
curs specifically on Wednesday and Thursday evenings,
right in the middle of the week.

Yugoslavian Troupe Provides Authentic Performance

By MIKE STEPHENS

In Love Auditorium last Monday night ticket holders
to the Davidson Artist Series were treated to a perfor-
mance that filled their senses with sound and color and
filled the air with the excitement of a European festival.
Frula (meaning “flute”), a Yugoslavian dance troupe
performed what turned out to be both an entertaining and
interesting array of traditional folk dances.

Often dance is considered a “high” art form and is
not given a chance to be enjoyed by the average person.
Frula shattered this image of dance by providing, within
a 2 1/2 hour span, 23 different dances which were any-
thing but removed from the audience. The dances repre-
sented traditions and folklore from the six republics of
Yugoslavia: Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia-Her-
zegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro. The costumes
from each republic were colorful and the dances were
fast-paced and intricate.

The evening began with a’number to introduce the
performers and their culture. The dance, titled simply
“Yugoslavia,” used 24 dancers and five musicians. Al-
though the company contains 36 persons, only 24 were
on stage at any one time. The opening caught the audi-
ence’s attention, which was not to be released until after
the encore to the final dance. Even the intermission was
tensé*with the excitement the performance provided.

The musicians who accompanied the troupe, an ac-

cordianist, a violinist, a clarinetist, ‘a guitaistr, anda ’

standing bassist, added to the flavor of realism. Twice
during the course of the production the audience was
treated to a rendition of Yugoslavian folk songs while
the dancers presumably rested. Their playing was ex-
tremely good and was done entirely without the aid of
printed music. The clarinet and violin players were par-
ticularly outstanding.

The night progressed with such dances as “The
Wood Cutters,” a humorous characterization of a lum-
berjack competition set in the Sosnian mountains; “The
“Competition,” a fierce battle between three sailors and
three soldiers to win the affections of a beautiful girl and
several dances, patterned after the lives of the gypsies.

The gypsies played a minor role in the production.
Many dances attempted to portray the fierce temper and

jealousy of the gypsy men and the hot-bloodedness of
the gypsy women. These dances were filled with color
and atmosphere.

One particularly exciting dance was the “Biljava.”
This dance, which depicted the washing of wedding gar-
ments and linens in preparation for the festival, was per-
formed by a group of twelve women. Representing the
wedding garments were twelve strands of white cloth.
Through the entanglment and straightening of the cloth
and the use of colored lights, it seemed as if the stage be-
came filled with beams of light breaking into a kaleidos-
cope of colors. The effect was rather like a laser show.
Very unusual, it seemed, for a dance.

While modern dance is often highly stylized and
symmetrically choreographed, the “Frula” company al-
ways kept a sense of earthiness about themselves. Amid
the leaps and cartwheels of the performers one often
heard shouts and whistles which added to the “folk loric”
air. The dancers were a part of what they did and that was
readily conveyed to the audience.

As to the authenticity of the performance, one would
necd to be an expert in Yugoslavian folk dancing to pick
up on any incongruence that might have existed. Cer-
tainly the. average Davidson student did not go away
from the performance commenting on the adulteration ot
Yugoslavia’s culture. “Frula” was fun — and that's what
it was supposed to be. a
