The Spencer Years

(Continued from page 11)

for a position in the Political Science department. As-
sured of his new position, Lindon declined offers from
other schools. Lindon, however, was Jewish. Main-
taining he could not fulfill the “Christian commit-
tment” clause in the terms of tenure, Spencer retracted
the job offer. The anger this aroused led to a boycott of
convocation, and later to the removal of the “Christian
committment” clause.

It was in this same year (1977) that Black Achieve-
ment Scholarships were initiated with Spencer’s back-
ing.
In 1978, there -was some debate over the Faculty
Code of Conduct drafted by Spencer and Zimmerman.
Among other things, it demanded “support of estab-
lished faculty policy while some members of the col-
lege community took issue with it, there was no great
outcry. .

A proposed requirement of a non-western course
was rejected by the faculty. This proposal of Spencer

and the EPC was considered a “good” idea, but many
professors shied away from placing any more require-
ments on students. ,

Later on that year Spencer stated that half of
WDAV’s broadcast time should be devoted to “class-
ical” music. The situation climaxed in the resignation
of the entire WDAV staff in October 1978.

While Spencer’s stand on the WDAV issue brought
about student disapproval, his stand on self-scheduled
exams won their support. Due in part to his backing,
self-scheduled exams were re-approved in 1979. In
that same year, plans for Vail Commons were ap-
proved.

1980-present

In January, 1980, Spencer discussed some of his
goals with The Davidsonian. Among his main con-
cerns were fundraising and admission strategies. He
spoke optimistically of the future. The next month, he
proposed a 12.5% increase in faculty and staff com-
pensation. It ws approved by the trustees, as was a
$575 increase in student fees.

In the Fall Convocation 1980, Spencer reiterated
his support for a broader world view. He called for a
greater expansion of the Humanities and Language
programs. This was consistent with statements as far

back as 1968. One of Spencer’s priorities has always
been international study.

Vail Commons opened in September, 1981 at a
cost of 3.6 million dollars. The union café was renovat-
ed as well. Slater was replaced by the management of
Carlton Pritchard.

1981 was also the year Davidson hired James Will-
jams as assistant director of admissions and assistant
dean of students. His appointment was seen as improv-
ing the relationship between the administration and mi-
nority students. This, too, had been a major priority
since Spencer took office.

Spencer saw another of his goals fulfilled when the
EPC refused to close the center for special studies. Al-
so defeated that school year was a new grade system.

Other issues were Spencer’s proposed cuts in fi-
nancial aid, the effect of the.-Commons on Patterson
Court and self selection as a bid system. 1981-82 saw
the addition of Mary Irwin Belk -and Peter Knox
Dorms.

The final major issue of Spencer’s administration
was the approval of a switch to semesters. This school
year is the start of one era and the end of another.

POC

(Continued from page 1)

Amy Crittenberger, plus representa-
tives from several houses, make up a
committee which will referee com-
plaints from freshmen concerning self-
selection. Freshmen will make their de-
cision the weekend of February 12. Ma-
son said that they had not had any spe-
cific complaints as yet, only vague
claims. He said this is mainly because
the students have not sel their
houses yet and the people involved do
not want to have their names brought

i eh

ee aeons

out when there is still a chance that the
problem can be resolved.

Another subcommittee of the PCC
is looking into alternatives and possible
changes for the self-selective system. A
similar committee of the SGA is study-
ing the self-selection system and possi-
ble alternatives using questionaires (see
related article).

Terry said that none of the students
involved has come directly to him but he
said that he would channel any com-
plaints first to either the PCC or the
SGA and then to the Council on Campus
and Religious Life (CCRL). “My phil-
osophy is to let the Court manage their
own affairs,” he said. “Then, if that
doesn’t work out, they can come to

me.” He added that he had talked to the -

presidents of two houses and they told
him that they were unaware of any vio-
lators on the part of their houses.

Terry indicated that the sanctions
that might be levied against a house for
violations could be anything from a rep-
rimand, to a fine, to loss of the house
and that the sanctions would probably
be carried out by the CCRL. Mason said
that his committee could only recom-
mend actions to be taken.

Mast complained that there were
definitely problems with how the sys-
tem works now. He said that many

freshmen were confused and did not —

realize that “if they did not get down to
the houses early in the year, they were

out.” He added that some people have
really been hurt, but he conceded that
this was probably true of any system.
“They need to look at the reality of the
situation.” he said. “I can see no differ-
ence between this and a straight bid sys-
tem, except that a straight bid system
says what it does.”

As far as what is to be done about the
situation, Mast said that he is under the
impression that violations of the system
have been getting progressively worse
in the last couple of years. He said if an-
ything is to be done about it, the people
involved need to speak out and take ac-
tion. “I think we need to look at the self-
selection system very seriously.”

Union President Charlie Lovett has
released the appointments to the 1983-
84 Union Board.
Let someone know
you love them
on Valentine’s Day.
Put a classified ad
WOMEN’S CONCERNS....ELL ih The D avidsonian
EN PAPADEAS or that special someone.
MATT MORRIS Cost:
CHAMBER MUSIC. :. . KEITHRE three lines—$2.00
1/12 page-$4.50
.... TIM WA 1/8 page-$6.00

.... JIM HOSKINS
.... JOHN MUNSON

STEPHANIE BRUCK

- THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983

Call Union Extension 149
before February 8 |

Kingof Pizza

¢

241 S. Broad St. Mooresville

Special Dinner Buffet
Tuesday and Wednesday

5-9p.m.

Pizza Spaghetti Salad
All you can eat $3.79

Thursday Beverage Special

7 — closing

Large pitcher for ’2 price
with medium or large pizza

15
