Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

Rite

nt Court Closings Diminish Diversity

Barnett Gauges Interest In New Eating House

By RAND HARTSELL

A new eating house may open as
early as next spring, if sophomore Bill
Barnett has his way. Barnett is currently
attempting to determine the number of
people interested in such an endeavor.

Barnett, a former ATO member now
eating at the Commons, is displeased
with the present social atmosphere
around the Court. He believes the Court
lost a great deal of its diversity when his
former eating establishment folded.

“The Commons is not a suitable so-
cial environment for most up-
perclassmen,” Barnett explained. “It’s a
great place for freshmen; I believe it pro-
vides an excellent means for them to get
to know each other. But it offers nothing
for them socially. Common interests
develop to a great extent toward the end
of the freshman year.”

For this reason Barnett believes the
Court needs diversity, something he sees
diminishing now that ATO has closed.

Barnett does not, however, intend to
“reopen” ATO. “That would be point-
less. ATO suffered from a poor iden-

Bill Barnett

tity,” one that was not at all inaccurate,
he said. That identity led to a very low
self-selection result last year, he said.
Barnett pointed out that at the start of the
1984-85 academic year, only 10 ATO
members will still be on campus. The
other 29 members affiliated with the
house when it closed will have
graduated.

Interest in a new house has been eve-

Athletic Survey

(Continued from page !)

general athletic policy. They want a na-
tionally competitive basketball team, a
football team in the Southern Confer-
ence, and broad participation in all
sports.

At the beginning of the meeting, ac-

cording to Mele, the Trustees said the
faculty might be nonsupportive of major
sports (football in particular), but the fac-
ulty members attending suggested that
the faculty was supportive.

Self- Selection

(Continued from pag 21)

balance between fraternities. “A lot of
things shift the balance besides oral €n-
couragements,” he said. Nevertheless,
Kurtts said, “as a frat, we voted not to do
anything to try to get around the laws.”

He believes the Self-Selection Com-
mittee could be a valuable “liaison” be-
tween freshmen and Patterson Court.
“It’s a step forward,” he said, “but a lot
of other things need to be done.”

Kappa Alpha President Sam Hay
said, “I haven’t agreed with each deci-
sion the Committee has made, but I feel
that by and large, we are better off that
the committee exists and functions as a
link between freshmen and _ eating
houses.”

The Committee consists of two mem-
bers from fraternities, two from eating
houses, and two hall counselors.

D.G. Martin

(Continued from Pag gE

paign. He was introduced by Interim
College President Frontis Johnston, and
referred to Johnston and economics pro-
fessor C. Louise Nelson during the

speech.

other candidates have already

Ben Tison and Susan Green in the Demo-
cratic primary. The Republican candi-
date is Alex McMillan

Wwe Ww PERMANENT WAVE
HAIR DESIGNERS 1/2 OFF
STUDIO.
237 Catawba Ave. HAIR CUT & STYLE
Cornelius $5.00 off
(in rear of the Southem (Male & Female,
Energy Suitding)
MON-SAT 10 AM Until
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE

No Appointment Necessary - $5.00. ‘Cell. 883-3129 or Gon-4 |

o

Kevin Horan

ed for the race. Martin will face.

nly divided between upperclassmen and
freshmen, indicated Barnett in support of
his claim that the Court needs more di-
versity. The house will need the
freshman interest it has received. Ac-
cording to Dean of Students Will Terry
and College Business Manager Bob Cur-
rie, that interest would need to be trans-
lated into something more concrete.
Both explained that a long-term, contrac-
tual obligation would be in order. “Ide-
ally, we would want a two-year commit-
ment from each person,” Terry said.

Terry also said that those in charge of
organizing the house would have to be
“very convincing of the need for a new
house. They would also have to demon-
strate that the new house will not harm
the stability of the other eating houses,”
he said.

“We want to avoid a trial run,” Currie
said. “The expense incurred (especially
when a house is forced to close) must be
borne by the house.”

Warner Hall is the most recently
opened eating house on the Court. In the
fall of 1981 then-sophomores Kathy
Kooken, Jane Alexanian, and Anne Rol-

through May 31, 1984.
c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

BEST EATIN'’ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
non th this  money-Savinr coupon.

"STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours
only at participating Hardee's Restaurants

lins felt the need was apparent for an al-
ternative to Rusk House. As the only all-
women’s house to date, Rusk had a long
waiting list.

“After going door to door,” Kooken
said, “we had to present a petition to the
Council on Campus and Religious Life.
They made a proposal to the President
{Samuel Spencer] stating the need for a
new house existed and that the support
(75 members) existed.”

Warner Hall hopes to minimize diffi-
culty in replacing the 55 sophomores
who joined the house in 1982. Rollins
said the house membership could stay at
75 if after the class of 1985 graduates, 25
freshmen self-select this year as well as
next year. She expects this to happen,
even in the event of another co-ed eating
house opening.

In light of two houses closing within
the last year, Terry commented that start-
ing a new house seems risky.

“The [Patterson Court] system has
traditionally been important to college
life. There must be a concrete commit-

ment from house members for the system
to continue,” Terry said.

Yardees

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR

May 31, 1984.

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee’s Restaurants through

Hardees |

f c 1983, Hardee's Food.Systems, Inc.
LD) he Ee ee fee) [ee aaa =e Eee] ne Gee)
