The Davidsonian/Friday, April 1, 1983 7

FEATURES

The Embarrassment of Art

Chaucer scholar Donaldson visits campus

By BRIAN BUTLER

E. Talbot Donaldson, called “our:

best reader of Chaucer” by The Yale Re-
view, lectured and led classes at David-
son March 28-9.

Once a Yale professor, now retired at
the Univeristy of Indiana, and advisor to
approximately 50 graduate theses (En-
glish Professor Ann McMiillan is his
49th), Donaldson receives a steady flow
of grants and fellowships to continue his
studies. He has published widely; his
Speaking of Chaucer is in its secon edi-
tion, and Chaucer’s Poetry is in its third.

Ominous’ credentials such as
Donaldson’s conjure pictures of austere,
elite superiority. Yet his 900 Room lec-
ture, entitled “The Embarrassments of
Art: Sir Thopas, Pyramus, Thisby, and A
Midsummer Night's Dream,” surpris-
ingly revealed a genuinely thrilled peas-
ant still guffawing beneath the weight of
years of study.

Donaldson’s knowledge is broad and
deep. His lecture was riddled with
scholia only those intimately acquainted
with the material could have caught, yet
his bushy eyebrows, mutton chops, and
near lust for a good joke enabled the au-
dience to appreciate some of those dusty
library books that haven’t been checked
out since 1972. His attitude was far from
the picture of the lone scholar; his gentle,
fragrant sense of humor made him seem
an avuncular shoe salesman who enjoys

‘An Improbable Fiction’

E. Talbot Donaldson lectured Monday
in Dr. McMillan’s Chaucer class

your company whether you are in need of
shoes or not.

Monday morning’s_ lecture’ on
Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde fit like a
slipper on that day, due to Donaldson’s
long familiarity with and love for the
text. The lecture focused on Pandarus

A Review of Twelfth Night

Anderson Scott

(one of literature’s first matchmakers,
what today one might call a pimp) with
such a vicarious thrill in his voice that
one couldn’t help identifying
Donaldson’s enjoyment of Chaucer’s
“dirty tricks” to Pandarus’s voyeuristic
titillation at the prospect of Troilus and
Criseyde’s love. Donaldson takes special
delight in the ways Chaucer plays with
the reader’s mind, making him feel he
has misread something by witholding
crucial information until the end of a
lengthy piece of nothing. He also likes
the way Pandarus uses a maxim
whenever in doubt; he has a saying for
the inside out of every occasion. If “Look
before you leap” won’t work, Pandarus
will try, “He who hesitates is lost.” Like
Pandarus, Donaldson seems to have a
pocket full of funny phrases to bring his
audience to love Chaucer as he does.
And, like Chaucer, Donaldson (in his
own words) “can’t stand to do anything
straight.”

In considering critiques of Chaucer.
Donaldson revolts against the over-fic-
tionalization of John Gardener as well as
the patristic criticism of C. S. Lewis,
who, Donaldson says, tends to drag
“Christian red herrings over pagan
poems.” As for Freudian analyses,
Donaldson asked, “Did Chaucer know
Freud? . . . Of course he was Freudian,
only he didn’t have any words for it.”
Donaldson _ prefers to understand

Chaucer on his own terms, terms which
ring remarkably similar to our own
“modern ones.”

The 900 Room lecture examined
Chaucer and Shakespeare’s similar use
of faulty art-within-art, namely Sir
Thopas’s incredibly _ uninteresting
doggerel from The Canterbury Tales and
Peter Quince’s production of Pyramus
and Thisby in A Midsummer Night's
Dream. In exaggerating the embarrass-
ments of bad art, both authors draw at-
tention to the masterful qualities of their
own work. Donaldson demonstrated a
refreshingly clear but unconventional
mastery of his art in his explication of
exactly why Sir Thopas’s tale and
Quince’s play fail so completely. He
used the term correctio to describe the
extent of figures beyond the necessities
of their context, such as Pyramus’s ‘“‘o
Night, which ever art when day is not,”
and the Prologue’s “Did scare away, or
rather did affright.”. Donaldson
suggested that perhaps these characters
“were in dire need of a thesaurus, for va-
riety is the spice of death.” He also drew
attention to absurdities that may have
slipped by more hardened readers, such
as “cheeks yellow as cowslips” and “eyes
green as leeks.”

Though some slept soundly and
noticeably in their seats, most welcomed
the chance to enter a well-aged (not agéd)
dreamlike land of the past.

By STEPHANIE BRUCK

“If this were played upon the stage now, I would
condemn it as an improbable fiction!” So says Fabian in
Twelfth Night, describing the muddled action of the
play. Twelfth Night is certainly an improbable fiction,
but one can hardly condemn the formidable product of
the combined efforts of Shakespeare and The Acting
Company which came to Davidson March 30.

Shakespeare needs no introduction; The Acting
Company might. Touring for the Kennedy Center, it
consists of 17 young professionals culled from the likes
of Julliard and Yale. The Company’s twofold purpose is
the trial-by-fire development of its ensemble through the
rigorous 47-week rehearsal/tour period and its commit-
ment to tour professional productions throughout the
United States. Knowing that the company consists of
high-caliber actors at the beginning of their careers
makes their production more exciting.

Twelfth Night is open to several interpretations and
centers of emphasis. This particular production wed ele-
ments of design, for example, to emphasize certain as-
pects. The physical layout of the stage determined the
patterns of motion for the actors. The symmetrical ar-
bors forced circular and figure-eight paths on the actors,
a wonderful visual symbol in a play in which everyone is
quite confused. The director made great use of this phys-
ical-for-mental whirling, making Malvolio, one of the
most deceived characters, complete three full circles be-
fore speaking his first line.

Color design also provided visual cues for the audi-

ence, equating dark colors with seriousness and bright
with comedy. The stage itself was reddish-brown, for
this comedy plays against dark consequences. As the
play progressed, costumes became brighter.

The serious actors wore brown and black: the Duke
was in brown except when he wore gold at the end once
he achieved happiness. Viola and Sebastian wore
brown, and Olivia — while she was acting seriously —
was in mourning. When she fell in love with the dis-
guised Viola, she shed her black for pink and her realism
for comic exaggeration.

Acting in a stylized comic manner, the comic char-
acters wore the brightest clothes. Malvolio, however,
represented an anomaly: despite his comically stuffy
manner, he dressed in black. At his most ludicrous he
added bright yellow stockings, yet his somber attire gen-
erally contradicted the laughter he provoked.

Should we laugh at Malvolio? His pretension and
snobbery are certainly outrageous; we are delighted
when the clever trio dupes him and he makes himself
ridiculous. However, when he returns in the final scene
amid happy reunions and love matches, he makes plain
the darker side to the comedy — the hurt behind the
laugh. Suddenly he pours out his suffering from the cruel]
trick, and he becomes human. He has a heart, we dis-
cover, because it is broken, and everyone, including the
audience, is ashamed for their cruelty and laughter. Be-
fore a tableau of the happy couples, Fesze reminds us
that while they are blissful now, as Malvolio well
knows, “The rain, it raineth everyday.”

Sebastian brandishes the rapier of wit in The
Acting Company's production of Twelfth Night
