THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIl, Number 18

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 15, 1983

91 Profs
Sign
Nuclear Arms

Statement
Student Referendum

This Tuesday
By ANN MEADOR

Ninety-one Davidson College faculty
members have signed a statement calling
for “a worldwide freeze on the produc-
tion and deployment of nuclear
weapons.”

It ‘represents a statement of principle
to the campus community in hopes that it
will serve as a guide to student action,
but also to recognize that the students had
raised our [the faculty’s] conscious-
ness,” said art professor C. Shaw Smith
Jr., one of the project’s organizers.

The statement is designed to repre-
sent the feelings of those who signed it
and not the campus as a whole, said reli-
gion professor William Mahony, another
organizer of the effort. “We wanted this
to reflect the feelings of a group of indi-
viduals, not an institution,” he said.

The idea for the faculty statement
originated when Smith and art professor
Russ Warren considered the activism of
the ’60s and students’ willingness to ex-
press themselves at that time. Another
professor’s challenge “What’s that gen-
eration doing now?” sparked Smith’s and
Warren’s enthusiasm. “‘What could we
do?’” Warren said they asked them-
selves.

At an informal meeting on April 6, a
group of about thirteen professors dis-
cussed options. They decided upon a re-
solution to be signed by professors and
presented in public.

Five of those professors met the next
day and decided to adapt a nuclear arms

(Continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

-New Restaurant: The Studio
plans to open this Monday. Story on
page 3

‘Bret Logan: Student artist ex-
periences the jungle. Story on page
10

‘Book Review: The Stories of
Breece D’J Pancake. Page 11

-Drop/Add: Does the system
need change? Page 19

Victor Pavlenkov (left) and Yan Kandror (right)

Soviet Exiles Discuss Human Rights

By DAVID RESNIK
and ELIZABETH KISS

Two students in exile from the
U.S.S.R., Victor Pavlenkov and Yan
Kandror, discussed human rights and
disarmament before a crowd of more
than one hundred people yesterday from
4-6 p.m. in the Morrison Room. The
event was sponsored by Amnesty Inter-
national.

The two exiles set up a table in Cham-
bers all day Thursday in order to talk with
students and pass out literature. They
spoke in History Professor Earl Ed-
mondson’s Twentieth Century Soviet
History Class and ate at different eating
houses.

Two months ago, Pavlenkov and
Kandror founded the Soviet American
Student Struggle (SASS) an M.I.T.-
based group of students and Soviet re-
fugees seeking to promote awareness of
peace and human rights efforts in the
Soviet Union.

They are currently touring colleges
and universities across the country. So
far they have visited Brown, Yale, Bos-

ton College, the University — of
Richmond, and the University of Vir-
ginia. Pavlenkov and Kandror travel by
car,paying for their own food and gas ex-
cept when they receive occasional dona-
tions from students and campus organi-
zations.

After completing their tour they will
stay around the New York area. They
plan to hold a peace rally in front of the
Soviet embassy in June.

Pavlenkov said the group was formed
in response to Prime Minister Yuri An-
dropov’s recent crackdown on human
rights in the Soviet Union. “Every one
who has any connection with the free-
dom movement or human rights move-
ment has been getting arrested,” he said.

Pavlenkov said the SASS works in
two ways. First, it offers moral support
to Soviet prisoners through letter-writing
campaigns sponsored by Amnesty Inter-
national. Second, it tries to pressure the
Soviet government from the outside. He
claims the Soviet government can be
coerced, but only if the noise “is loud
over here.”

Jeff Mann

“The Soviet government is sensitive
to Western public opinion,” he said. He
cited the example of a Soviet prisoner
who was released from a mental hospital
only after continued pressure from the
West.

Independent disarmament groups in
the U.S.S.R. are a target for repression
according to Pavlenko. He _ believes
western peace groups can have an impor-
tant influence in the Soviet Union by
pressuring the government not to impris-
ion and harm these dissidents. He also fa-
vors full agreement with western peace
groups which support “a bilateral, verifi-
able freeze.”

Even though the Soviet government
may have plans to control the world, the
Soviet people are America’s greatest al-
lies, he said, because they live under a re-
gime of “Communist terror” and still
struggle for freedom.

Pavlenkov believes the Soviet people
may have lost some of their taste for free-
dom after Stalin’s purges. Terror has
numbed their senses. He said this process

(Continued on page 4)

Spencer’s Address Highlights Convocation

By DUNCAN V. FRASER

College President Samuel Spencer
will make his final address to the College
this morning at 11:00 a.m. in Love Au-
ditorium during Spring Convocation.
Classes after 10 a.m. will be cancelled to
allow students to attend the convocation.

Spencer will also confer two honor-
ary degrees on distinguished alumnmi,
John P. McKnight ’28, who will receive
a doctor of letters degree and Julien L.
McCall ’42, who will be awarded a doc-
tor of laws degree.

A native of Denver, N.C. now resid-
ing in Naples, Fla., McKnight is an
award-winning author and journalist
who retired in 1969 after 20 years as a
public affairs officer with the U.S. Infor-
mation Agency, now the International

Communication Agency.

After graduating from Davidson,
McKnight worked as a reporter and
editor for the Wilmington News-Dis-
patch and the Charlotte News before
joining the Associated Press as a foreign
correspondent. He left AP for USIA in
1949, and served in Rome, Seoul, Rio de
Janeiro, Buenos Aires, and at the Na-
tional War College at Fort McNair.

His 1952 book, The Papacy, won
the N.C. Mayflower Award for non-fic-
tion. McKnight also has written numer-
ous fiction ‘and non-fiction works for
magazines.

McCall is currently president and
chief executive officer of National City
Bank in Cleveland. A native of South

Carolina, her served in the Army during
World War II, and earned an MBA from
Harvard in 1947.

McCall spent 22 years with First Na-
tional Bank of New York, the forerunner
of New York’s Citibank. He moved to
National City Bank as first vice-presi-
dent for general administration in 1971,
and was named president a year later.

He is a former trustee of Davidson
College and has served as a member of
Davidson's board of Visitors.

Numerous students will also be rec-
ognized for various achievements at the
convocation.

Convocation was planned to coincide
with Alumni Weekend and will be fol-
lowed by a luncheon on Vail Terrace.
