“Nildcat Ten Drop Two, Win One

By SCOTT BEAVER ’84

The Wildcat wrestlers went 1-2 this
past week, competing in a four-team
tournament against Pfeiffer, Lynch-

burg, and Livingston. Davidson out- .

pointed Pfeiffer, 32-17, but fell to
Lynchburg 29-19, and to Livingstone,
37-12.

In the loss to Lynchburg, Davidson
got victories from junior John Breiden-
stine (142), who decisioned Brian Rowe
8-5; sophomore Bob McCullen (167),
who pinned Pete Brothers at 1:45; and
junior Tom Hissom (177), who claimed

continued from ‘page 25

the first three times they pressed us.
This time we handled it well. I think
they were counting on it to shake us up,
but we were ready for it.”

In fact, the Lady Cats really tumed
the table on the Cobras as they put a
press of their own on right before the
half. It resulted in a number of Coker
turnovers, which the team converted to
points right before the half. Mayes
added, “I was really happy that ever-
body got a chance to play and did a su-
per job. The level of play didn’t go
down at all when I took the starters out.
Coker was still playing a tough defense,
but we kept running the plays and get-
ting the rebounds right until the end.

“T’ve been really impressed with the
play of Cathy Morell in the past few
games,” Mayes continued. “She’s real-
ly been able to spark the team.” Against
Greensboro on Saturday, Morell man-
aged 4 points and 4 rebounds in only six
minutes. On Tuesday she was impres-
sive under the boards, as she pulled in 9
rebounds in less than 20 minutes of
court time. A new addition to the team,
senior Laura Terry (who joined the
Lady Cats after Christmas) also did an
excellent job of coming off the bench.
She grabbed 5 rebounds and scored 2
points in six minutes.

Mayes concluded by saying, “I’m
really excited about the rest of the sea-
son. We’re playing some tough schools
but I’m confident that we can beat any-
body on our schedule.”

The Lady Cats wiil try to ds: just that
as they play Catiw ba tonight ut 7 p.m.
and Wofford tomorrow at 2 p.m. Both
games are in Johnston Gym.

26

George Johnson 8-0. Lynchburg victo-
ries came at 118, where Stuart Shelton
decisioned freshman Jim Labrec 10-2;
at 134, where Dave Carlone beat fresh-
man Tom Cardwell 15-2; 150, where
Dave O’Homa beat senior Chris Tier-
nan 13-2. Tiernan’s loss was his first f
the season at 158 Ibs. Davidson forfeit-
ed two weight classes (190 and unlimit-
ed) and Lynchburg one (126).

The Wildcats recorded only two
wins over Livingston. Tieman won a 4-
2 decision over Malcolm Pridger, and
Hissam decisioned Archie Kincy 10-3.
Livingston winners were: Kevin Aide

(118), Robin Rice (134), Carl WAlker,
and Larry Hester (167).

In the win against Pfeiffer, David-
son picked up several big wins. Sopho-
more Tom Oddo (126) pinned John
Slaton at 5:24, and Tiernan pinned John
Mokena at :46. Hissam and Pfeiffer’s
Ken Budd fought to an 8-8 drawa in a
grudge match. Pfeiffer got a pin from
Mike Patterson (134), of Cardwell, and
a 7-2 Al Baretta decision over Breiden-
stine.

Davdison’s dual meet record ts now
6-6.

A recurring problem for the Wild-

cats has been the absence of wrestlers at
the 190 Ib. and heavyweight divisions.
The Wildcats always have to go into a
dual meet having already given up
twelve points. The significant number
of freshmen wrestling is promising,
however, as they are gaining college ex-
perience in their first year.

Another positive development has
been the performance of wrestlers who
have changed weight clases during the
year. Oddo dropped from 134, in which
he was 6-3, to 126, in which he is 7-0.
Tiernan, whow as only 1-5 at 167, is 10--
2 at 158.

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull ‘(boys}
and: Camp Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor is a ~
challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young

people, ages 7-16.

Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and

character development camps located on the coast of. North
Carolina and feature. sailing, motorboating, and seamanship,
plus many usual camping activities including a wide variety
Qualifications include a genuine interest
in young people, ability to instruct in one phase of. the
camps’ programs, and excellent references.
information and application, please write a brief resume’ of
training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek,
Director, Camps Sea. Gull/Seafarer, P. 0. Box 10976, Raleigh,
North Carolina. 27605. ,

of major sports.

For further

Midwinter Sale

thru February on

Posters, Prints, and Paint

New Cards and Posters

EScher, Travel, Movies, Photography

etc etc etc

at

Ghe Copeland House Gallery

DAVIDSON, N.C. 26036

305 N. MAIN STREET

