16 Friday, March 25, 1983

The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

A Christian View onthe Arms Race

Tim Ritchie
and
Chris Marshburmn

Is it possible for a Christian to reconcile the ethical
commitment of his faith with maintaining an effective
nuclear deterrent? We believe it is possible, indeed nec-
essary, for concerned Christians to support such a pol-
icy. Consider, for example, the Judaeo-Christian con-
cept of shalom.

Shalom is usually translated “peace,” but to the
forefathers of our faith it meant a total, all-emcompas-
sing sense of well-being; certainly more than the absence
of violence. Shalom included justice in addition to the
absence of hostilities. Thus a condition of slavery, even
though there was no war in the land, would not be con-
sidered shalom. We believe that shalom, peace with jus-
tice, is the ideal that Christians should be striving for.

We believe that, further, this includes shalom on an
international basis. In light of the current world political
situation, this demands the maintenance of an effective
nuclear deterrant.

For support we appeal to the morality of defending
basic human rights. In order to secure, and in our case,
maintain, these rights one must be willing to fight
against those forces which would threaten to take them
away. Not to fight against such forces is morally repug-
nant, out of proportion to the albeit morally difficult act
of taking up arms against another human being. In
World War II perfectly moral human beings rose up to
fight against other human beings because in the long run,
their willingness to sacrifice life for liberty would secure
greater good than their refusal to take part in violence.

Most Christians throughout the history of the Church
have affirmed the right of self-defense. Turnin® the
other cheek was fine as long as the other was also willing

to turn his cheek. Otherwise, the one with the unturned
cheek has his way; aggressive bad defeats passive good,
and society is an even more evil place to live. In a mor-
ally deficient world, one must choose the lesser of two
evils from time to time. Hence, when German tanks
rumbled acroiss Europe and extermination. camps
threatened an entire race, Christians were compelled to
respond violently.

The problem is that we live in a nuclear age, and the
equation of destruction has been raised to inconceivable
levels on both sides. No one disputes that nuclear
weapons are certainly the most horrible weapons ever
constructed. But horribleness is still a matter of degree.
Though great wisdom and care are required to ensure
that nuclear weapons are never used, they do not rule out
the necessity of continuing to construct and possess
them.

Christians should consider a few facts before they ©

prematurely decide the possession of nuclear weapons is
in all cases immoral:

1. Nuclear weapons are unlikely to disappear from
our planet in the conceivable future. Even if the West
were to disavow them, and the Soviet Union were to fol-
low suit, other nations would surely continue to possess,
buy, or invent them, our moral example to the contrary.
Whoever possessed them would hold tremendous power
over those who didn’t. Nuclear weapons in the hands of
a Qadaffi is itself a frightening possibility.

2. The proper approach to nuclear weapons, then,
consists in realistic attempts to control them, and not in
self-righteously washing our hands of them. This means
decreasing their numbers, and also ensuring that no one
has enough to be tempted to use them. This is, of course,
the “balance of power,” a phrase which the peace move-
ment dislikes because it points out a major weakness in
its argument. In addition, because nations are so fright-
ened that nuclear weapons will be used against them, if
any sort of war breaks out, a nuclear balance of power
lessens the danger of even a conventional war between

the nuclear powers.

3. If the nuclear balance of power is surrendered by
unilateral disarmament, or threatened by a premature
freeze, the danger of war increases. This is simply com-
mon sense if one observes the history of any totalitarian
nation as it seeks. to expand.

Christian realists acknowledge that the possession of
nuclear weapons can never be morally good. But they
can be morally acceptable in a morally deficient world.
Thus Christians are obligated to ensure that the deterrent
force of the “less evil” side is effective. Obviously, nu-
clear weapons are likely to raise the level of damage
done in war. Christians, though, should consider
whether the harm to be avoided by weakening our deter-
rent or surrendering it may still be even greater.

The threat of nuclear war should be a significant con-
cern of Christians. The danger exists, however, that ef-
forts on behalf of the anti-nuclear movement will serve
merely as a form of “cheap grace,” moral posturing, and
an escape from other, perhaps more pressing, global
problems such as world hunger and the redistribution of
wealth. Every social movement, Christianity not-
withstanding, has its fanatics. Those of the anti-nuclear
movement have fashioned their own brand of secular
apocalypticism, and realistic Christians would do well to
steer clear of their enticingly simplistic, often naive,
rhetoric.

The issue of nuclear deterrence is a complex issue
and demands long and considered meditation in the light
of God’s word and contemporary reality. For thirty years
most Christians have accepted the principles of self-de-
fense and deterrence. Paradoxically, these have been the
most peaceful in the history of the West. (cf. London
Economist Feb. 13, 1983)

Tim Ritchie is a senior Religion major who spent his
junior year in Edinburgh, Scotland. Chris Mashburn,
also a senior religion major, spent his junior year in
Jerusalem, Israel.

SGA Should Recognize Court Polls Limitations

Dr. Thomas Kazee

Following the 1980 presidential election, in which
most public opinion polls incorrectly forecast a very
close race between Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter,
the political cartoonist Auth took a good-natured poke at
the “science” of opinion measurement. “I don’t know
about you,” one pollster — dressed as a sorcerer — says
to his bewildered colleague, “but I’m going back to tea
leaves and eye of newt.” Opinion surveys, with their
multistage stratified samples, probability theories, and
ranges of error, often sez:m more like astrology than sci-
ence. However, we continue to use them, and to be fas-
cinated by them. The simple reason is that public opin-
ion polls are the simplest and (sometimes) the most accu-
rate means of measuring attitudes in large populations, if
sufficient care is taken in interpreting the results. The re-
sponsibility of the person or group conducting the survey
is to be quite explicit about what the survey says — and
what it does not say.

It is this last point which is of particular relevance for
the Davidson student body and student government.
Several weeks.ago, the Patterson Court Study Commit-
tee of the SGA conducted a survey of the Davidson stu-
dent body. I have been asked by the: Davidsonian to
comment on that survey, discussing particularly the

methods used and the interpretive limits which need to
be observed when evaluating its results. I will confine
my comments to those issues, for I have neither seen all
the data nor feel particularly competent to suggest to the
SGA what the results mean; that is the job of govern-
ments.

Specifically, one needs ask two important questions.
First, how was the survey conducted? Second, and
clearly a related question, what are the limits in interpre-
ting the results? The first question is certainly very im-
portant, for the results of the survey can be generalized
to the entire Davidson student body only under two con-
ditions: if all students were surveyed, or those who were
surveyed were randomly selected. This simply means
that every Davidson student had an equal probability of
being included in the survey. Neither condition was met.
The response rate for the survey, which was a pencil and
paper questionnaire filled out by students and returned to
hall counselors and SGA senators, was approximately
25 percent. One cannot conclude that the 25 percent who
responded are representative of all students. Perhaps
those who were most opposed to self-selection as it cur-
rently operates were motivated to respond, while sup-
porters tended to throw away the questionnaire (assum-
ing that the status quo would be maintained). One cannot
conclude. — even ifthe. distribution of respondents
“seems” to reflect. the. student: population — thatthe
group which responded is representative of all students.

Other potential problems of method include poorly
worded questions, or insufficient response options, or

poor question order. Though several of the items on the
survey might have required more information about self-
selection than most students possess, in general the
questionnaire seems to me to be well constructed and re-
latively objective. One can always cite problems with
specific questions, but, to a certain extent, bias — like
filth — is in the eye of the beholder.

What can one do with the results, given what we
have: noted about method? One cannot say that certain
policy changes ought to be made because they are “fa-
vored by a majority of the students.” The survey tells
you nothing about the student population as a whole.
Should it be disregarded and rejectd as a fruitless enter-
prise? Indeed not, for the results — even though they are
not generalizable — may be suggestive of significant
patterns of Davidson opinion. This is particularly true if
the results from the one-fourth who responded are in a
clear and consistent direction. Hypothetically, for exam-
ple, one might say that “there is reason to believe” that
change is desired by many students. The survey can be
extremely useful in identifying problems with self-selec-
tion or even suggesting improvements in the system. It
cannot, however, be said to be the definitive statement
of Davidson student opinion.

I conclude with a note of encouragement for the
SGA, for I feel that surveys of this type are quite appro-
priate: and legitimate vehicles for ascertaining student
opinions about a variety: of issues. They will continue to
be, however, only solong as those who utilize such tools
fully recognize their limitations.
