Donley, Lovett Vie for Union Post °

By DIANA BOHRER ’85

Two juniors, Charlie Lovett and Pat
Donley, will compete for the presidency
of the College Union in Tuesday’s elec-
tion.

Both have chaired Union commit-
tees but look forward to the greater chal-
lenge of organizing the Union Board’s
campus-wide activities. Union Presi-
dent is responsible for coordinating the
activities of the Social and Co-curricu-
lar Union Committees as well as for fi-
nancial planning and public relations.

The following statements are tran-
scribed from individual interviews with
Donley and Lovett.

Tell me about your experience
working in the Union and what you have
learned from it.

Donley: Well, I’m the kind that
likes to get involved in everything, or as
much as my time will allow me, and,
working on the Cultural Events Com-
mittee hasn’t been really good for me
because it was dropped in my lap after
having been dropped in the lap of the
person, before, and I tried to do as much
as I could with it. It’s finally starting to
come around. But through that I’ve
learned a lot about things like how to run
and arrange a committee and also just
how things work at the Union Board.
I’ve gotten to be pretty good friends
with Mike Goode and Danny Waddell
and Elizabeth McMillan, the present of-
ficers, so I spend a lot of time up there
and see what goes on. I spend a lot of
time in Shaw’s office. I am around a lot
and I get involved and I stick around;
when there’s something to be done I try
to help do it just because I like to be in-
volved.

Lovett: It’s hard to say it in a minute;
I’ve learned a whole lot about the way

Benner, Dickey
Clash in VP Race

By DIANA BOHRER ’85

The Union vice-presidential elec-
tion will match Suzanne Dickey against
Eileen Benner for the position of Co-
curricular Vice-president.

“I'd like to see students become
more involved with co-curricular activi-
ties and become more aware of what we
do,” Dickey said. The Co-curricular |
Vice-president plans the Artists Series
and oversees committees devoted to
cultural events, the Gallery, fine films,
and seven other areas.

Benner has worked with the Artists
Series and describes it as “‘an especially
great-opportunity for us to bring in

the Union works and about the way the
Board works. I’ve learned a lot about
programming, how, if there’s some-
body you want to get to come to David-
son, how to go about it, whom you
should call and how the whole business
of programming works. And I think the
fact that I’ ve learned that at the comittee
level means that I can help new commit-
tee chairmen coming in next year learn
that for themselves so that they can con-
tinue to do good programming.

What do you perceive the duties of
the president to be?

Donley: Well, first and foremost is
overseeing the Union Board making
sure that everyone is doing what they’ re
supposed to be doing and that things are
all organized and responsibilities are
delegated, things like that. There’s just
a lot of little stuff, but the main respon-
sibility is presiding over the Board and
seeing that they work. The president is
an organizer. He has to select a Board
that he can work with and that can work
with him, his vice-presidents, and each
other, and that’s the most important part
of it. And once you do that, if you do get
a Board that works together will, like
the present Board, their things run
smoothly. I think one of my main objec-
tives is to be as good as things were this
year, if not better.

Lovett: I hope that my duties will in-
clude, first of all, trying to create a cam-
pus awareness of the Union Board by
making the meetings more open and
more publicized by having a newsletter
that comes out once a month and by
making sure that the minutes of the
meetings are posted where people can
see them. I’d also want to create a Union
Board awareness of the campus by at-
tending all the meetings of the Interfra-
ternity Council, the Patterson Court

things we would never get to see other-
wise.” She adds that in working togeth-
er on an activity like special weekends,
the Union Board “can really get a lot
done.”

The uncontested candidate for the
place of Union Social Vice-president,
Mark Tully, feels that working on the
Union Board is “a good way to get in-
volved in the college.” Tully will draw
on his experience as Dance Committee
chairman as he oversees the social
events of the Union, including big
weekends, concerts, games, pop films,
and alumni functions.

Social and co-curricular vice-presi-
dents work closely with the president in
planning campus-wide activities.

Lovett and Donley |

Council, and by being personally re-
sponsible for staying in touch with all
the Patterson Court presidents to make
sure that we can minimize conflicting
events as much as possible.

As President, what would you do if
excessive drinking led to destruction in
the 900 room again?

Donley: It’s hare to decide. You
cant’t punish the entire student body for
the ignorance of individuals, and if you
don’t know who the individuals are,
then somehow you have to make an ex-
ample of the actual event. It would be
something to the extent of closing down
just the bar and saying, “Look, you
screwed up. There are certain kinds of
personal responsibilities that you have,
and you have to live up to those here; if

you are guing to abuse them we’ re going
to take your privileges away.”

Lovett: I think the way we dealt with
it last time (closing the bar) seemed to
be effective. If it were a real problem, I
would certainly bring up that possibili-
ty. One thing I would do is make it a de-
cision that the entire Board makes and
not that I personally make. That (clos-
ing the bar) would be one of the options
I would suggest to the Board. I would
also suggest options like having Board
members try to be in the 900 Room fre-
quently to encourage people not to drink
too much and to have sort of student
‘people in the 900 Room who have some
level of responsibility in terms of asking
people who have had too much to drink
to leave, and things like that.

Hall Counselor teams compete
for freshman advisor

By DIANA BOHRER °85

Running for the position of Fresh-

men Advisors are two pairs of current

hall counselors: Vickie Neale and Ste-

phen Reardon, and Katie Dagenhart and -

Rob Spaugh.

_ “We've enjoyed being hall counse-
lors. We'd like to share our experien-
ces, good and bad,” explained Dagen-
hart, agreeing with her opponents Neale
and Reardon that being a hall counselor
is the most valuable preparation possi-
ble for becoming a freshman advisor.

Responsibilities of the advisors,

who work as partners, will include se-
lecting and training hall counselors,
planning freshman orientation, and be-
ing available throughout the year to
guide and check up on hall counselors.

According to Neale, the most im-
portant qualification for a freshman ad-
visor is a “general ability to work with
people,” and she adds that “you kind of
have to have a sixth sense.”

Dagenhart and Spaugh emphasize
teamwork among all hall counselors,
saying that they will “promote unity
among the hall counselors throughout
the year so they can benefit from each
other.”

- THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983 _

8

By John Ruppenthal °84
