6 Friday, October 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

The Grateful Dead: Festival Celebrates Life

By DAVID RESNIK
“Since 1965, there have been over 3,000 Grateful
Dead Concerts, from the Panhandle of Golden Gate
Park to the Pyramids at Giza. At each of them someone
has stepped on the bus and become a Dead Head.”
—From The Official Book
of the Dead Heads

More than 60 Davidson students and one professor
drove to Greensboro last Sunday in order to join with
13,000 other fans in a Grateful Dead festival. Almost 20
students had seen the Dead the night before in
Richmond, Virginia.

A number of these students are admitted Dead Heads
— they attend as many Dead shows as they can and listen
to the Dead music exclusively.

But why are these people so devoted to the Dead? Is
it something in the music that they like or is it something
else? Are the Dead just another rock band or are they
something more?

Religion Professor William A. Mahony saw the
Dead for the first time in 1967 and has seen over 120
shows since then. He described Dead shows as “‘a lot of
people having fun, people treating each other right,
people who are laissez-faire and compassionate at the
same time.”

Junior William White, who has seen more than 20
shows, said that the fans have a “definite closeness to
each other.” Junior Alva Moore, who saw the Dead for
the first time Saturday night, described the feeling as
“low key harmony” that travels like “electricity through-
out the building.”

Festivals

Mahony said Grateful Dead concerts are like ‘festi-
vals, ceremonies. Everyone participates, not just the
people on the stage. The audience is part of the experi-
‘ence. He also added that this festival can “approach
ritual in a large sense.”

Although Sociology professor Janet Grigsby de-
clined to comment on the ritual aspect of the Dead be-
cause she doesn’t know much about Dead Heads, she
said that rock fan clubs ‘‘seem to be characteristic of
youth, who very often need or want a sense of belonging
to a group.” She said this sense of belonging applies to
rock fan clubs as well as other student/youth groups and
organizations.

Mahony defined ritual as “the embodiment in time
and space of an ideal community.” In some ways a Dead
show is an ideal community, according to Mahony, be-
cause it is not only a group experience, but also because
it points to.a special space.

y “ *

‘oveenntnttiney,

Dead played the Haight, San Francisco, March 3, 1968

In this special space people “experience different
ways of being, what society could be,” said Mahony.
“They return to a timeless place where everyone is crea-
tive and generative.” Since the Dead show allows people
to create new orders, they are analagous to creation
myths, according to Mahony.

New Order

Grateful Dead Guitarist Jerry Garcia, in a 1972 Rol-
ling Stone interview, described the Dead as “a signpost
to new space.” The sun points to “formlessness and
chaos” which “lead to new forms and new order,” said
Garcia, which is “closer to what the real order is.”

It is easy to see the new order that Garcia talks about
without accepting his metaphysical theories. One can
see the new order reflected in the faces of the crowd, in
their clothes, and in their dance.

Dead Heads wear wild tie-dye shirts with colors and
patterns reminiscent of the ’60s. As Schwarztbauer of
the Williamette Valley Observer commented, “They’re
the only band in the world who don’t have to worry about
adapting to the times. They’re dragging the times along

Talking Heads Thrill Chapel Hill

By DAVID McGEE

In 1977 when some Dead Heads were probably at
their 100th Dead concert, the Talking Heads put out their
first album, Talking Heads '77, five records later, they
are today’s most progressive and innovative band. Sorry
Police fans, but you can’t win this one.

Don’t take my word for it; put on their first album
and compare it to a listen of their latest LP, Speaking in
Tongues. Do this acid test with any band around in 1977
which survives today, and you’ll see what I mean.

If this fails to satisfy you, go see them Sunday night
at the Charlotte Coliseum. I saw them last night in Car-
michael Auditorium in Chapel Hill. And what kept the
capacity crowd there on its feet for two and a half hours?
A few examples:

‘—David Byrne, the band’s singer/songwriter/

guitarist, bends and shakes himself just to prove how
few bones he has in his body. He comes complete with
costumes.

—There is a word association slide show for all the
Sigmund Freud Jrs.

—In the middle of the second set, the Tom Tom
Club, a band formed two years ago by Heads bassist
Tina Weymouth and her husband drummer Chris Franz,
takes the stage with a get-up-and-dance-and-more rendi-
tion of “Genus of Love” from their first album.

—For the first few numbers, the band makes a
flashback to the good old days when they were a quartet.
They play several favorites from their first two records.

—The opening David Byrne solo is arresting enough
to get all those psycho killers off the street.

» Keep in mind that “this ain't no party / This ain’t no
disco... . ” it’s the best concert-you'll see this year.

with them.”

Many Misconceptions

White believes there are “many misconceptions”
about the Dead. “They’re big, they’ve been selling out
for twenty years,” said White. “But still few people
know anything about them.”

Moore said she had heard about their big hits but had
not paid much attention to the Dead until recently. She
said it is easy to forget about the Dead, even though you
may be aware of them at some level.

Mahony added that many people have misun-
derstood the Dead festival as just an occasion to take
drugs. White admits that many people take drugs at
Dead shows and that they have been doing so since the
1960s. But both Mahony and White assert that the festi-
val is more than a chemical high.

Garcia described the “high” in his 1972 Rolling
Stone interview: “To get really high is to forget yourself.
And to forget yourself is to see everything else. And to
see everything else is to become an understanding
molecule in evolution, a conscious tool of the universe.”

A Musician’s Band

The Dead are by no means a commercial band.
White said they “don’t care about the commercial as-
pects a bit.” They allow their fans to tape Dead shows for
free (despite objections from their record companies).
They also refrain from excessive promotion and en-
dorsements.

“When they started out in the sixties giving street
concerts,” said White, “they didn’t care about money.”
In his 1972 Rolling Stone interview, Garcia stressed
that the Grateful Dead “is not for cranking out rock and
roll, it’s not for going out and doing concerts or any of
that stuff.”

The Dead are more interested in the music than the
money. In order to put out the best music, they have
what White calls ‘‘a state of the art” sound system. They
also concentrate more on creating music through live
performance, rather than striving for studio repetition
and perfection. These elements combine to make the
Dead one of the best live. bands: White said he’d “never
