Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian

~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

DC Jazz Ensemble Gives Personal Performance

By ALLISON WILLS

In its eighth year of existence, the Jazz Ensemble has
recreated the fun of the big band era at Davidson with
golden oldies and festive antics. Despite limited expo-
sure and scarce publicity, there was standing room only
in the 900 Room for the ensemble’s premiere perfor-
mance last weekend.

“I think the reason we’re so popular on campus is
that we give a personal kind of performance,” four-year
ensemble veteran Bobby Silver said. “I do not think it’s
so much the music because Davidson students don’t go
home and listen to big band music on the their stereo.
But when they see their friends playing it, that’s differ-
ent.”

Under the direction of assistant music professor Wil-
liam Lawing, the 20 musicians give three concerts annu-
ally at Davidson and go on tour over spring break. To fi-
nance the tour, they perform aat private parties on and
off campus. This year they will tour with the Wind En-
semble throughout the Midwest, stopping at churches
and schools to give concerts and spending the night in
people’s homes.

Costt:med in black-and-white-checked plastic vests,

The Jazz Ensemble

tennis shoes and jeans, the group keeps the tone light and
informal. “We get so caught up in the fun, that we almost
forget about the music,” Silver said. “Jazz is not as tense
as a lot of music. You can mess up and no one ever
knows.”

Silver explained that most of the members are young

Peggy Pierotti

and inexperienced with only one bassist, Mary Fant,
pursuing a music major. “Mostly, we just do it as an out-
let. There aren’t many opportunities to get a group to-
gether when we get out of college, and we just enjoy it.”

The ensemble practices about twice a week, with at
least one practice a week for each five-person section:
sax, trombone, trumpet and rhythm. They have “clas-
sics” such as “Little Brown Jug,” “In the Mood,” and
Glenn Miller’s “String of Pearls” that they can play with
no practice, and each year they master about 25 new
selections.

But beyond musical favorites, the ensemble is also
known for its shenanigans. “The trumpets have 50 or 60
different hats which they switch throughout the eve-
ning,” Silver said.

“And the trombones do the ‘Bonehead,’ which is
walking like a crab with their trombones on top of their
heads.”

The Jazz Ensemble’s next scheduled appearance is at
the PAX Christmas formal, and they will present another
900 Room concert in early February. WDAV broadcasts
900 Room concerts, and tapes of the broadcast are avail-
able in the Music Department.

Rupert Barber Finds Creative Outlet In Theater

By DAVID VAN PELT

It is saying something that while
1983 commemorates the twentieth an-
niversary of the Davidson drama depart-
ment, it also marks Rupert Barber’s
twentieth year as director of the program
and chairman of the theatre and speech
department.

Since coming to Davidson in 1963,
Barber has overseen all drama depart-
ment productions, directing almost all of
them. He was, in fact, the only theater
faculty member until assistant professor

' Joseph Gardner joined the staff in 1977.

“It’s really his department,” said
Gardner, formerly a student here under
Barber. “He brought an organizational
gift and solid grasp of fundamentals that
has sustained him and the department
through a lot of different administra-
tions.”

Barber cites increased theatrical in-
volvement by students as evidence of the
growth of the program. “Clearly the de-
partment has evolved in the numbers of
people interested in theater and the num-
bers who participate.” He refuses to use
professional actors in his plays like many
college productions. “I feel very strongly
that a college theater program is for stu-
dents,” he says.

eBarber grew up in Alexandria,
Louisiana, and recalls theater as a semi-
nal influence in his life. “As a child I put
on puppet shows and directed neighbor-
hood children in plays. I always like to
dress up and play roles.” He also lists
radio drama as a favorite influence. “It
developed my imagination, because I
had to recreate the scene.” He still feels
that drama which confronts the audience
with something besides strict realism
forcing the atidience to use its imagina-
tion “is more towards what theater is
about.” _

Barber received his Bathelors degree
from Louisiana State University, his

Masters at Columbia, and returned to
LSU for his doctorate in theater. He
taught at high schools in Louisiana and
Hempstead, Long Island before coming
to Davidson.

His experience at Columbia and on
Long Island left him with an ambiva-
lence toward New York. While he values
his time spent there, he says he “found it
very stifling.” He still travels to New
York at least once a year, but says, “I
need to know what is happening in New
York, but I’m not frustrated by not being
in New York.”

Barber sees theater at Davidson as a
continuing challenge. “The Davidson
student is very challenging to work with
creatively,” he says, adding “the audi-
ence for the most part is really open.”

Barber’s creativity is not limited to
his responsibilities at Davidson, how-
ever. A self-confessed opera buff, he di-
rects productions of an opera group in
Charlotte as well as summer theater pro-
ductions at CPCC in Charlotte. He is also
Chairman of the Terradiddles, a profes-
sional company of adults who act for
children, and has contributed several of

his own plays to the company. Referring
to his playwrighting, he said, “I have a
number of projects underway, and the
most frustrating part of my life is not hav-
ing time to work with them.”

Barber has two children, Garry, 18,
and Aileen, 15. His wife Carol is a regis-
tered nurse who often contributes cos-
tume design to his productions.

“The neat thing about theater is that
you ‘can almost always find a niche some-
where,” Barber said. “I think that unless
you have some creative outlet, life is
going to be pretty monotonous.”

By MATT MORRIS
Used Cars (1982) Written and directed
by Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis.
Starring Kurt Russell, Jack Warden,
and Joseph P. Flaherty. RATING:***

Steven Spielberg once said some-
thing to the effect that when put to the
test, screenwriters Bob Gale and
Robert Zemeckis would make it big. If
Used Carsis their test (let’s pretend
1941 does not exist), then they get a B-
plus with a note that says, “Keep try-
ing, yow’ re going in the right direc-
tion.’

Like Gale and Zemeckis’s first fea-
ture, the silly, likeable / Wanna Hold
Your Hand, Used Cars is a flashback
to the old Hollywood comedy in the
Leo McCarey style. In McCarey’s
films, the characters are as inherently
hilarious as the situations they find
themselves in, producing a broad,
slightly brilliant, comedy of manners.
A McCarey comedy made no pretense
to wit, but it was there anyway.

Used Cars sets out creating certain
farcical “demands — a used car bug?

Used Cars And Humbugs

ness is almost too funny in reality to
make a good film — and while they
don’t always work, the failings of the
film give it a deeper texture, a true in-
sanity. The fact that the movie was
made is in itself a gag. And for the
most part this approach works — the
comedy, the setting, the action all
click. Especially hilarious in a Marx
Brother way is Walt Disney escapee,
Kurt Russell.

Where Used Carsneeds a tune-up
is in the general direction it takes from
genuinely hilarious to genuinely gross.
Even Monty Python fans will leave
with a bad taste in their mouths. All the
same, the good naturedness of the pro-
duction smooths over most annoying
exercises in bad taste.

In view of the recent barrage of
Porky’s movies, Used Cars is a great
deal. Check it out. After all, so dollars
never hurt anybody.

The Wizard Arrives Saturday

The Wizard of Oz, showing this
‘Saturday in the 900 Room, has been
rerun so many times on television that
it defies legend, myth — everything.

That being the case, you may say,
“Why the hell is he reviewing that
movie?” Maybe this will serve as a re-
minder of what a marvelous and, i
these turbulent exam periods, essential
movie The Wizard of Oz is. It makes no
difference how many times you’ve
seen it. Ozis always a surprise, and on
a big screen it is a technicolor delight.

No film in the history of cinema
has been thrown about in critics’ cir-
cles, old people’s memories, and little
children’s imaginations as much as
The Wizard of Oz. No film has so much
pure magic frame for frame as The
Wizard of Oz. And no movie will ever
have anyone as thoroughly endearing,
charming, and honest as Judy Garland.
Her career was one that went too fast,
too maniacally for anyone to handle,
let alone a pudgy kid from Grand Rap-
ids, Michigan. Perhaps that is why Oz
so special — the audience roots for her
to make it over the rainbow. The “in-
nocent” ideal is long dead, but one can
still hold onto the myth presented in
The Wizard of Oz. See it again and
again and again.

