The Davidsonian / Friday , | April 49, 1 983 15

Freeze Movement Needs Meaningful Action

Tim Schipke

Rather than present another exegesis on the immor-
ality of the nuclear arms race and the benefits of a nucle-
ar arms freeze, although such a discussion would be well
merited, I would like to make some insights into the
Davidson nuclear disarmament movement. Specific-
ally, I wish to comment upon the recent faculty state-
ment which appeared in The Davidsonian.

At last both the faculty and students of Davidson
have awakened from their dogmatic slumber; both the
faculty statement and the impressive turnout for the
documentary “If You Love This Planet” testify to this
awakening. There are, however, two important, closely
related, issues involving the attitudes of the supporters
of the freeze movement at Davidson. The first issue is
that of the effects of the popularization of the freeze
movement, and the second issue is an ethical one: what
is the responsibility of the faculty and student supporters
of the freeze movement?

To keep my statement brief I am limiting my com-
ments to the faculty statement; my comments, though,
apply equally to student supporters of the freeze move-
ment especially those who voted yes on the student re-
ferendum. I will now take up the first issue.

Upon entering the 900 Room to view the documen-
tary “If You Love This Planet” I overheard a student
comment, “Well! This’is the thing to do tonight.” This

comment, of course, was facetious; however, I do not
believe that the student who made the comment was
being entirely facetious. This comment is a symptom of
a problem which will continue to grow as the freeze
movement becomes popularized. The problem is that the
freeze movement is turning from a sincere grass-roots
protest into a fad.

The unfortunate thing about fads is that they have a
strange way of dying as quickly as they begin. A conse-
quence of this faddishness is the tendency for individuals
to jump on the nuclear freeze bandwagon without ac-
cepting full responsibility for their decision. This leads
directly to the second issue which I will examine with re-
spect to the statement signed by the 91 faculty members.
although it applies to those who voted for opposing the
student statement.

What was the significance of the faculty statement?
For those 91 faculty members to say that they oppose the
arms race is much the same as if they were to come out
with a statement opposing genocide. What sane person
does not oppose the nuclear arms race? Hence the true
test of the faculty’s support of the freeze movement can-
not lie in mere words because it is almost a tautology to
say, “I oppose the nuclear arms race.” They are empty
words. The faculty statement was an important step for
the freeze movement at Davidson, but I question just
how meaningful this statement was.

The only true support of the freeze movement can
come with further action. By action I do not mean pro-
testing with placards or organizing sit-ins, although such
actions might make Mr. Reagan and Mr. Andropov
come to their senses. What I mean by action is a positive

and meaningful act which requires some amount of com-
mitment beyond putting one’s signature at the bottom of
a vacuous statement. Without such commitment the
freeze movement will simply die.

Suppose, for instance, that the students involved
with Amnesty International printed a signed statement in
The Davidsonian expressing their opposition to torture.
My reply to that statement would be — so what? What
rational person is not opposed to torture? What gives Al
credibility here at Davidson is that the members are ac-
tive; they are willing to commit their time and effort and
not be content to give mere lip-service to human rights.
Al is only as strong as its members are active.

Likewise, my reply to those 91 faculty members who
signed the statement is — so what? One person who acts
and is not content to remain a faceless entity is worth 91
people who sign their names to a statement and then sit
back and do nothing.

Each faculty member who signed the statement must
now accept complete ethical responsibility for their ac-
tion and do something substantive. I have a great deal of
respect for those faculty members who cared enough to
sign the statement, but if they are unwilling to take
further action then they shouldn't have signed the state-
ment in the first place.

Thus it remains to be seen whether those 91 faculty
members will seriously consider what I have said and ac-
cept the responsibility which their signatures entail or
whether they will complacently say, “I’ve done my
part,” while the nuclear arms race continues.

Schipke is a sophomore philosophy major

Response To Spencer And Fraser

To the Editor:

In response both to President
Spencer’s Convocation address and to
Duncan Fraser’s rather emotional edito-
rial in last week’s Davidsonian, | am
writing this letter in rebuttal to these
gentlemen and in defense of a selective

fraternity/social system. I feel that my
membership in an off-campus fraternity
provides me with the ability to view the
Patterson Court situation with a substan-
tial degree of objectivity.

I'd like to abstract away from the

More Free Weights

To the Editor:

Remember my letter to you from two
weeks ago concerning the free weights?
Well. here is an update on the situation.
After I talked to Coach Farrell, several of
us “non-varsity” types went to Dr.
Spencer’s Open Office, where he in-
formed us that Coach Farrell had already
decided to buy some equipment to put in
the Nautilus room so that we could con-
tinue to work out with free weights. We
were all surprised, and certainly pleased,
until we found out this week exactly what
kind of equipment we are being given.

We are getting one bar (not an Olym-
pic bar either) bought with money from a
summer camp fund, When what we really
need is two 45 Ib. bars and a curl bar. We
are getting one bench donated by some
anonymous person, when what we really
need is a bench, an incline bench, and a
squat rack. We are also getting 300-500
pounds of plates, old ones that have been
sitting unused in the “football” weight
room for some time, when we really need
at least 1000 pounds of plates. In other
words, we are being bought off with only
one third of the equipment that we need,
and inferior equipment at that.

Now that Coach Farrell has “gener- |

ously” given us our own weights, we are
supposed to be grateful and more impor-
tantly, be quiet. Hey, we never asked for

our very own weights. We were happy to
share with the football players and
wrestlers! What is the sense of having
two complete weight rooms when all we
need is one that is open to everyone?
Worse yet, what is the sense of having
one complete weight room open to cer-
tain specialized groups, and then a little
bit of motley equipment salvaged for the
use of the rest of the people interested in
lifting free weights? Even I — and Il ama
woman — cannot do a decent workout
with the equipment that Coach Farrell
wants us to settle for. Now, what about
big guys like Vic Ferarri and Paul
Mainella?

Come on, people. The students of
Davidson College are being treated like
the Indians in Manhattan — we’re being
bought off with trinkets and beads.
Coach Farrell’s extension is 373. Even if
you don’t lift, why don’t you call him (or
his nice secretary Mrs. Wally) and let
him know what you think? It is attitudes
like this that will harm Davidson students
in the long run, whether they exist on the
coaching staff, in the administration, or
among professors or trustees. How can
any of these people respect us if we don’t

have enough self-respect to fight back

when we are being treated in a high-han-
ded manner?
Karrie Buckner ’83

fraternities for a moment and discuss the
nature of human beings. It has been said
that man is a social animal. Individuals,
for various reasons, tend to associate
with people of similar background and
interests. Certainly, no one can object to
another individual’s preferences as to
whom he might choose to associate. A
selective fraternity system is a very for-
mal way in which we can accomplish
this, only better. It allows individuals
with common interests a very efficient
way of combining their money and tal-
ents to achieve the goals deemed impor-
tant by the group. The group, once
formed, selects those individuals for
membership who share those goals and
who will, in turn, be of help in achieving
those goals. By the nature of the system,
some who feel they are right for a group
may be rejected, case in point Duncan
Fraser.

Fraser writes in his article that he
feels there is injustice in our system.
He’s right. The injustice comes when the
administration tells prospective students
that Davidson’s social system is com-
pletely self-selective, and indeed uses
this as a selling point, when they know
full well that it isn’t. Freshmen come in
with the idea that they will be able to

choose whichever house they want. They
find one house that they and perhaps their
friends like and stop looking around. By
the time they find out that they might not
be able to join after all, it’s too late to find
another house. It’s at this point I suppose
that they all stomp tearfully over to Dean
Terry’s office and get the transfer pro-
cess underway.

The solution is simple. Let’s face up
to the fact that we don’t have a self-selec-
tion system. Tell freshmen from the start
that competition for fraternity bids is at
times fierce and encourage them to spend
some time getting to know members of a
variety of houses. This will help fit the
right freshmen to the right houses. If
Fraser had been told this from the begin-
ning, perhaps he wouldn’t have concen-
trated all of his efforts in one place. He
may-have gotten an encouragement from
the house of his second choice, and his
situation would more than likely be much
better than any of the alternatives he
faces now.

So before you cast Davidson into a
bottomless pit of social mediocrity, let's
make a truly honest attempt to properly
weigh the advantages of a selective sys-
tem in relation to its advantages.

Eric Hill °84

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adheree to
these four guidelines: |) We require that
letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tues-
day. 2) We require that letters be neatly
typed. 3) We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s phone
number and address. If you have a com-

pelling reason for us to withhold your
name, explain your situation to the
editors. 4) We reserve the right not to
print letters that a) function as advertise-
ments; b) contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a view-
point very similar to that expressed in
other letters printed on the same topic.

