Real Davidson:

don’t wear polyester

By JANICE EVANS 86

In true Davidson student fashion, this project was
done at an odd hour of the morning.
“Real Davidson students don’t wear polyester,”

aside his Vj
his book. We are s

College library snd chatting at a normal volume; every
student knows the library is the center of sociability on
a weeknight and no one really expects silence.

“T wouldn’t say we're all preppies,” William con-
tinued, “but we do have out Muffies and Biffs.” Will-
iam believes the Real Davidson student comes from the
“Joe Average Middle Class” and is the child of an
alumnus if possible. A great deal of diversity prevails,
but it appears there is a campus-wide avoidance of po-
lyester. “Even the ATO-ers choose all-cotton shirts
and jeans,” added William.

In the course of our conversation, William pointed
out a number of other qualities that are common to real

Davidson students. For instance, students feel very
strongly about the two main services to students: the
Commons and the laundry. The Real Davidson student
always hates the food; the polyester wearer, however,
comments that it could be worse. Real Davidson stu-
dents complain about the laundry’s machines eating

side his eo Mghligher and iting calmly setting ©

their oxford-cloth shirts. Polyester wearers run to the —

nearest K-mart to replenish their wardrobe. On the oth-
er side of the laundry is the linens service: Real David-
son students care very little about the sheets, which be-

tie

long to the College. In fact, they care so little that they

- change their sheets once a: month: . . if its convenient.

We presented William with a Real Davidson stu-
dent quiz, which he passed easily, even without an all-
nighter:

Q: Why did the Davidson student cross the road?

A: To get to the post office.

Obviously, Real Davidson students ate quite fond of

the mail service. The problem of not getting enough

- mail is common though. Many subscribe to Time,

Newsweek, or U.S. News and World Report, even if
it’s only to have the box filled once a week. If they hap-
pen to get the L.L. Bean catalog (the Bible of preppies

everywhere), they claim it’s coming to the person who

’ had the box before. Real Davidson students are very

discreet Bean customers; they don’t flaunt the catalog
and they quickly hide the shipping box if they order an-
ything. Polyester wearers, if they ever break out of
their K-mart mold, wear Bean’s clothes inside out to
show off the labels. —

Of course, there’s academia. William made it clear
that studying is far from nonexistent, especially due to
the fact that Real Davidson students take Humanities
and Chemistry 31. They research a lot and feotnote ev-
erything. The hard-working Davidson student chews
his pen cap — a sure sign of deep thought. But natural-
ly with all this studying, there are the proverbial study
breaks, even though they Real Davidson student
claims he doesn’t have enough money (only polyester
wearers admit they have money to spare). The Union's

¥s = > 8 Y 2 oh oss

Bag oe we. 2 Pore ts Be,

Stu ents. oe

ER Sere i ®w TS
Fr : eae

eek 2 EE a a
bagelsare a favorite, but the Real Davidson student -

will frequent the 7-Eleven when necessary, . . . but
never before 11:00.

Occasionally, there are longer indulgences in free
time. Regardless of gender, Real Davidson students
“do Nautilus.” Physical fitness is important, especially
considering how seriously the Real Davidson students
take their partying and rowdiness. Friday classes gen-
erally find the Real Davidson student bleary-eyed; to
compensate for the weekend ending on Sunday for
study purposes, the sixty-hour-long period of wildness
begins Thursday afternoon. This isn’t the case if a stu-
dent has a test of Friday, but then he probably pulls an
all-nighter and doesn’t quite look his best as he stag-
gers into class; often the hungover and the zombies are
hard to distinguish from one another.

Last, but not least, Mr. Thurston told us about
pride at Davidson. There are a variety of conflicting
images. First of all, Real Davidson students dress in
sweatshirts from other colleges, Ivy League if possi-
ble. (Polyester wearers fill their drawers with “DC”
and “Wildcats.”) In addition, Real Davidson students
have stacks of those large plastic cups, usually from
ACC schools and southern college party centers. But a
Real Davidson student will never let on that he knows
Davidson basketball isn’t quite like the sport at Virgi-
nia, Indiana, Kentucky, or North Carolina. Most im-
portantly, William Thurston firmly asserts one thing:
the Real Davidson student believes Chalmers David-
son’s story about Princeton once being called “the Da-
vidson of the North.”

The Argument for Smoking

Let me start with th quote from Benjamin Frank-
lin’s Poor Richard’ s Almanack, although it is paraph-
rased a little bit: \

There are three faithful friends—
An old wife, an old dog,
and an anti-smoker.

I am sure that every smoker here can appreciate this
phrase. Every day we receive thousands of kind sug-
gestions from anti-smokers: “What the hell are
y’doin’? It’s bad for you.” And at the end of a day, we
have completely become sick of them and yell, “Come
on! Please leave me alone, you anti-smokers!”

As Woody Allen says in “Manhattan,” “I don’t in-
hale because it gives you cancer.” Smoking is bad for
our health. And the problem is smoking also has a bad
effect on the health of non-smokers around smokers.
Realizing this fact, I do my best to respect non-smok-
ers’ rights. For example, I always take a seat in a
“smoking ghetto” when I take trains or busses, and I try
to ask if I can smoke or not to all living creatures, from
a college professor to a pest bacillus, within five inches
around me.

We have many more things that are hazardous to
our health, such as over-roasted hamburgers, rock ’n’

roll music, exhausted gasses from high-quality Toyota
cars, or video games (we can get a package of Win-
stons if we don’t play Pac-man three times). Thus, no-
body can overexaggerate the fact that smoking is no
only one of those wicked things which exist on the
earth. And with all bad effect on our health, smoking
gives us five minutes peace of mind. When I get so
much tension that I cannot help singing the third move-

ment of Gustav Mahler’s Symphony No. 5 loudly, the
easiest way to avoid it is just to have a cigarette. If I am
not allowed to smoke, what substitutes do we have to
lessen the extreme tension of mind?

First, we have a good sort of sleep. To have a deep
sleep is, no wonder, good also for mental hygiene. But
we must see the other aspect of such a sort of sleep, as
suggested in the well-known phrase: “Early to bed and
early to rise / Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and
filthy” (also paraphrased from Benjamin Franklin).

by Anderson Scott '84

And after you have had an awful dream in which you
are killed by a bunch of healthy anti-smokers, you will
wake up and find you are dead of shock, although it is
considerably difficult to wake yourself up in a situation
like that.

... How about jogging? It seems to be good for our
health, and this is the reason why many healthy Amer-
icans enjoy jogging. But there is a possibility that jog-
ging leads you to death. I am not talking about heart
failure, and let’s not say traffic accidents. You can pay
enough attentioon to avoid them. But you cannot tell
what will attack you from the sky — maybe a dead
sparrow, a tail of an A-300 headed for the Bahamas,
Superman’s false teeth, or some intercontinental bal-
listic missile.

“Healthy” foodstuffs are also said to be good. But
can you stand the foods like pickled aloe or alfalfa sal-
ad every day? You can do so only if you can “live like’
Mahatma Gandhi.” And even if you are so cautious, or
nervous about your health, you are destined to die
sooner or later. I am sure that nobody wants to live for a
thousand years to be a fossil and to be exhibited as a
sample of “Healthy Homo Sapiens” in the Museum of
Natural History in New York.

Finally, let me conclude this letter by quoting an
old Japanese saying: -

Hast thou not folly enough
to quit smoking!

Thou willst climb on the
chimney for smoke.

Masaya Momiyama is an international student from
Hyogo, Japan.

12

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
