12.‘ Friday, March 25, 1983

The Davidsonian

—_—— Records

The recent popularity of Musical
Youth has prompted some American
interst in the Jamaican reggae style
known as “toasting,” in which dee-
jays chant and sing over a spare rhythm
section or even a dub instrumental mix
of a popular record. Toasting has been
popular in Jamaica for some ten years,
and generally takes the place of live
music in the smaller Jamaican clubs,
since the bands rarely play club dates.
So, when people want to hear reggae
they'll usually go hear some famous
toaster such as Big Youth, Eek-a-
Mouse, Welton Irie, or Brigadier
Jerry.
Of all the toasters in Jamaica
today, however, the most popular is an
odd-looking black albino named Yel-
lowman. This very talented, very dev-
out man has become an unlikely sex
symbol as well as a popular DJ. This
LP, Mister Yellowman, one of his
many releases, but is representative
and well worth a listen.

The album opens with the tightest
song of the group, a Rasta shuffle enti-
tled “Natty Sat upon the Rock.” Open-

Scoop

By JOHNNY EDWARDS

Pete Townshend’s new double
album Scoop is not for everyone. The
hard-core Townshend addict will con-
sider this album required listening,
while the more passive admirer may
not find it quite so palatable.

The reason for the difference in
opinion is this: the album contains
nothing but demos recorded at home
with Townshend playing all the instru-
ments. Many of the cuts do not sound
polished or even finished, because
Townshend used the cuts to present his
songs to the Who or to his producers
| for their scrutiny.

As a result of the experimental na-
ture of these demos, an incredible vari-
ety of sounds and styles comprise the
album — from rock to country to jazz
to electronics. Much of this will sur-
prise those only familiar with the Who
and Empty Glass.

The variety is not only musical.
The album contains many states of
song | creation, from conception to full
production. ‘AS Townshend hints in the
liner notes, since these. recordings
were, never me¢ant for public consump-
tion, the. album. takes a very personal

the process of: greating. :

BY. Townshend's '§ Own Admission,
himself- to ‘its being meant for) the Who |
fanatic’ 5 “archives. “Of “Gouirse;
Townshend has puilth his career around
trying to analyze his position and how

look at a very personal songwriter, in,

Scoop was designed for (of. ‘resigned |

Yellowman Toasts Jamaica

ing with an unintelligible Jamaican
speech which contains dedications and
greetings, the sound slides into sinu-
ous excursion with Yellowman’s voice

he got there. Townshend believes that
a valve exists in almost any material
tof his, anyway), if viewed in the prop-
er perspective. The obvious criticism,
that the album is self-indulgent, is a
particularly uninformed view, since
the rock genre in general and
Townshend’s career in particular have
been built on self-indulgence.

An album’s worth lies in its songs.
Some of the material on Scoop has
been released previously and labeled
as classic or at least minor classic. The
demo versions of these songs are all in-
teresting for various reasons. “Behind
Blue Eyes” is positively chilling. The
previously unreleased material is

riding on top of a carnival organ and a
rock-steady bass and drum duo. The
backing studio bands are the Hi-Times
Band and the Roots-Radics, and they

Townshend still ‘number one on the home team’

mostly very good, some of it excellent
(“Mary”), some of it not so good
(“Body Language’”’).

The moody songs constitute the
real high points on this album. There is
probably more beautiful music on this
album than any other Who or
Townshend album (except perhaps
Quad). “Unused Piano,” “Behind
Blue Eyes,” and ““You Came Back” are
all tremendously haunting, alone
worth the purchase price.

Scoop will not gain Townshend a
new audience, but it will fascinate his
old audience as well as those who love
out-of-the ordinary recordings

really shine in their simple but imagi-
native arrangements.

Most toasters rap or chant rhymes
on “current events, love relationships,
ganja, or the ‘eradication squads’ with
their M-16s” (see Dr. Ginger Becri’s
liner notes for Heartbeat record’s A
Dee-jay Explosion), and Yellowman
generally continues in these areas. The |
point, though, is not what he does but
how he does it, and he does it very
well. I suppose relaxed intensity is the
best description I can think of for the
artful effortlessness of his rapping,
which is quite pleasant to listen to.

One of the not-so-pleasant songs
on the LP is “Jamaica a Little Miami,”
which sizzles with subdued rage and
bitter irony. A_ representative line
states that “Down in Jamaica, the is-
land of the sun/We plant sugar cane
and we make white rum/When tourist
come then we have little fun/When
tourist come somebody shoot them
down,” which points up the two faces
of Jamaica — the face the tourist board
presents and the one that shows the
problems of the island. The song goes
on to complain about girls who leave
Jamaica for Miami, and write back
lonely, poor, and pregnant. Yellow-
man achieves a socially active tone
without sounding strident, which is
something other groups might emu-
late. For example, the basically nega-
tive “Jamaica a Little Miami” is tem-
pered by the humorous “Yellowman
Getting Married” which follows it.
This happy reggae remake of “Get Me
to the Church on Time” (from My Fair
Lady) floats and bounces along in a
wash of good will until the following
song, “Duppy or Gunman,” drops the
listener back into darkness again.

For those more comfortable with
the ’70s soul sound of Marley and the
Wailers or Jimmy Cliff, Yellowman
may come as something of a surprise.
The horns and the I-Threes are gone,
and the musical landscape which re-
mains is stark and dangerous — a
whining organ sweeps around a de-
tached and deliberate bass and drum
duo. The ruler of this flawed domain is
not made cynical by it, though; Yel-
lowman smiles and dances like a wise
fool as he encourages the listener to
dance and to achieve redemption from
this world (“You can’t go to Zion with
your carnal mind/Them have a dirty
mind you have to leave them behind/
You can’t go to Zion with your M-16/
Your hands and your eyes must be pure
and clean”). Yellowman combines the
standard Rasta statements of faith with
a sense of humor, which is appreciated
by this reviewer — the lack of sexism
(admittedly preserit in some reggae) is
also conspicuous and Satisfying. :

T: ty this LP, and Tet me ktiow‘what
you i think about it ‘Gf you can find it —
Mister Yellowman net an easy album
to find). You may never have heard of»
him before, but’ it you acquite a‘taste
for toasters you’ it definitely enjoy Yel-
Jowfrian. an

it

