12 Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

From the Locker Room:

Southern Conference Tennis Championships

By STEVE SOUD

It’s billed as “the best free tennis you'll ever see.”
and it just may be. It’s got Davis Cup players, Davidson
players, and a host of others. It’s the Southern Confer-
ence Tennis Championships, and this afternoon and to-
morrow it'll be under your very nose.

Back over yonder behind the gym sits one of the best
tennis complexes in the nation. It boasts a total of 17
courts, twelve clay, the rest laykold. It’s a beautiful lay-
out, nestled among the pine trees and blooming dog-
woods. The 500-seat stadium isn’t the world’s fanciest,
but it is cozy and sociable, and it affords everyone an ex-
cellent view. Such is the site of the best free tennis you'll
ever see.

I suppose I ought to justify that statement. To begin

with UT-Chatttanooga is vying for an unprecendented -

sixth straight SC crown. During the regular season
Davidson (a 7-2 loss) and Furman (a 6-3 loss) were the
only schools in the conference to win points from the
Mocs. Their numbers one, three, and six players are
members of Zimbabwe's Davis Cup team. One of them,
a tall, dark-skinned, dark-haired, quiet tennis pow-
erhouse, Orlando Lourenco, made the quarterfinals of
the junior Wimbledon tournament. Consequently, the
Mocs got the number one seed in every bracket.

Thus teams figuring their chances in the tournament

day.

at UNCC, Calvard 3059
(704) 597-4537

DAVIDSON PLAZA

SHOPPING CENTER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PHONE 892-7211

Face it. .. you've always wanted to fly! Many of us have
had the feeling. . and for some it has never gone away.

If you have that feeling, then you're in luck. Air Force ROTC
Flight Instruction Program (FIP) is available to you. It’s design-
ed to teach you the basics of flight through flying lessons in
small aircraft at o civilian operated flying school.

The program is an EXTRA for cadets who can qualify to
become Air Force pilots through Air Force ROTC. Taken during
the senior year in college, FIP is the first step for the cadet who
is going on to Air Force jet pilot training after graduation.

This is all reserved for cadets who want to get their life off
the ground. . . with Air Force silver pilot wings. Check it out to-

Contact Capt. Paul Chambers

had good reason to feel pessimistic. But a lot of that
changed yesterday when a Citadel player knocked off
one of the Moccasins’ key players. “That has opened the
tournament up,” explains Davidson Coach Jeff Frank.
“It puts a lot of emphasis on doubles.” As it stood yester-
day, Furman was the surprise leader, a perfect 9-for-9
with 45 points. Davidson and UT-C, with 41 points
apiece, are tied and yipping at the heels of the Paladins.

Davidson itself has a prestigious history in the tour-
nament. From 1965-1973 the Wildcats won seven
Southern Conference championships, including four
consecutive titles from 1965-68. Frank has twice been
named SC Coach of the Year, and this summer will
coach in his third USTA Junior Team in the Italian Open
Championship. The Wildcats finished the season 14-9,
and though most of the singles players are seeded fourth,
freshman Craig Hall is seeded second in his bracket. One
of the doubles teams is seeded second, another third.

I'm not the world’s greatest tennis fan, but from
what I've seen this is excellent tennis full of excitement,
action, overhead smashes, aces, passing shots, and even
a few laughs. Somewhere in an old, forgotten draft of
“Hamlet.” Shakespeare included in Polonius’ Advice to
Laertes this statement: This above all — it doesn’t matter
whether you use a Prince or a Wilson, but never pass up
good tennis that’s free. Heed it.

NOTE: A Note that’s
worth the noting

Much Ado
About Nothing

Lingle Chapel,
May 6 at 7:00pm
May 8 at 2:00pm

= LOOKING FOR EXTRA EARNINGS? =
Po Welcome Wagon will train you for an earning opportunity as cam- =
pus Welcome Representative. Call or write about our May training =
= class. Represent local businesses, greet incoming students at DC =
: during registration. Car a must; full and part-time openings. ss
= Call 563-2388, or send name and telephone number to 5913 Char- =:
= ing Place, Charlotte, Charlotte 28211 os
: CAMPUS WELCOME—EOE

/4\J 0
ROTC

HO) s(Gy a

Gateway to a great way of life.

321 Griffith Street
Davidson, NC

Take-out Available

892-3095

