New Evaluation Forms Good & Bad
Provide Little

Student Input

A guest column

Students are in an especially favorable position to assess the
instructor's enthusiasm for the subject, concern for them, and
clarity in presentation. They can testify to the instructor's
availability, fairness and care in evaluating their work. The
satisfaction of students with the instruction they are receiving is an
important ingredient in the morale of an institution.

—Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures (Section Three)

The Committee believes that student evaluation of their
instructors should represent a minor part of faculty evaluation.
—from the PAC faculty evaluation proposal

Last Tuesday the faculty voted to do away with ICES forms used
by students to evaluate their professors. They have essentially
dumped the first side of the forms in favor of the essay questions on
the back. The new forms allow not only for less student input but
present it to the Dean of Faculty in an unusable fashion.

These new questionnaires have three questions. The first

question, one third of the form, asks the student to evaluate himself,

not the professor. The second and third questions are provided to
evaluate the professors. However, the emphasis has shifted from
critiquing the professor to critiquing primarily the course content.

It should be obvious that the Dean of Faculty will be unable to
assimalate some 9000 evaluations in a year. He will be forced either
to choose a few “representative” forms or statistically evaluate them
(i.e., 42 bad responses versus 63 good). Not even a Davidson Dean
should be expected to keep 9000 sets of comments in his head.

The PAC faculty evaluation proposals states, “The fact that
scores On questions are averaged and used for comparison in the
evaluation of faculty places faculty members in direct competition
with their colleagues for student approval.” No one likes criticism,
but protectionism of this sort is counterproductive. Students
compete with students for faculty approval; why should the reverse
be so unacceptable?

. This is an especially bad time for this move. With a powerful
trustee who thinks the “Davidson student stinks,” a faculty which
approves a semester proposal after 77.2 percent of the students
rejects it, and perceived insensitivity toward equal access
admissions for women. The Davidson students cannot help but feel
that he plays a miniscule role in the affairs of the College. For all the
oft-claimed confidence in our abilities, student opinion is
continually discounted.

While these forms may have had their problems, the use of them
could have been improved. ‘True, many students did not take the
process as seriously as they should; but neither did most of the
faculty. The forms were usually simply tossed out at the end of the
last class meeting with little explanation and less time to fill them
out. Students often did not know how (or if) the information would
contribute to tenure, salary, or appointment decisions.

Education is called for, not elimination. If these forms were
inappropiate for some types of classes, they could be modified, or
that fact noted. We would hope that the administration would be
astute enough to compensate for these shortcomings. We should not
stand by while it is rendered ineffectual.

"n

” . my ee
- wot a ey
wey . : . a a 2 .

"~~" THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983 _

(Devil Dog hexed Ann this week because he wanted to write this
week’s Good & Bad column. Initially, Ann refused to let him; once
he turned her into a large fern, she consented. F ollowing are Devil
Dog’s comments concerning life at Davidson. — Eds. )

By DEVIL DOG ‘666

Here are some things which are good. It is good to be a dog. It is
good because I have a secret about being a dog. The secret is that
Davidson people cannot understand me but I can understand them.
It is a funny secret. Only some know I am literate and‘can write in
English. Not very well, but I did pass my TOEFL with sparingly
room. So people think I do not understand. I do.

One day I sit behind Sentelle Dorm like usually and a coed girl
walked and said, “Oooh! That Devil Dog scares me and so I go
through Cannon to get away from him.” What a stupid girl, mostly
until I turn her into a fruit tree. Now she is mostly quiet. Frank
Hobart did the same thing I do now, and now Davidson has some
beautiful landscape.

Here is more. I walked to the P.O. (Post Office) one day and a
professor walked too. He was thinking I could not understand him,
but I did. He said, “I wish I was a dog like you with no worry and
care. No papers to grade. Just a dog.” I was very mad—“just a dog!”
I almost turned him into a small bush but instead I threw at him my
new Reader’s Digest. He respects me now and is a smart man.

Here is one more thing. It is fun to be a dog and scare coed girls
and turn humans into plants but there are other things too. Like this
observation that a dog friend made. She reads The Davidsonian too.
She said, “Yes, Davidson students may stink but then, so do most
people’s upper lips.” She is a political aware dog friend, and she
likes to be a dog too.

—The End—

Correction January, 1983. Margaret Lamotte

We apologise for anerror inthe _is the author of the untitled poem at-
Arts Supplement published on 21 _ tributed to Jane Redd. —Eds.

The Davidsonian |
The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext.
148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year.
Advertising rates available on request.
Stewart Cauley, Editor Tom Pafford, Executive Editor
David Resnik, News Editor
Jeff Mann, Associate News Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Ann Meador, Production Editor
Anderson Scott, Photography Editor

Debby Williams, Fine Arts Editor

Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Jeff Danese, Advertising Managers
Frank Hague

Tom Schi ing. Circulation Manager

cot Myers, Graphics

News Staff: Rick Avery, Boyd Blackburn, Jim Crowe, Duncan Fraser, Roxanna Guilford, Carl
Hobson, Jeff Holland, Paulette Kurani, Tim McGaughey, Elodie McMillan, Peggy Pierotti,
Mike Tantillo ,
Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Clare Eckert, Jonathan Glance, Joe Jaworski,
Anne Lambert, Matt Morris, John Verdi, Andrew Wilson
Sports Staff: Kara Gilmore, Scott Huie, Garry Sullivan . ;
-Photography Staff: Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Laura McGee, John
Ruppenthal ;
Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, James Moore, Jim Morgan

i, ,

