Janus Stowe Recovers

By DUNCAN FRASER

Davidson youth Janus Stowe under-
went bone marrow transplants October
14 in an attempt to send her lymphoblas-
tic leukemia into remission.

All signs point toward a successful
recovery, although doctors at Johns Hop-
kins University Medical Center cannot
call the operation a success until a 100-
day waiting period has elapsed.

Janus’s parents, Wayne and Vickey,
run Stowe’s Exxon on Main Street in
Davidson.

The situation in Baltimore is still “‘a
waiting game,” according to Mrs.
Stowe. “They’re giving her antibiotics to
prevent infection, and they’re giving her
tranfusions of red blood cells as she
needs it.”

Janus is in good spirits and is re-
cuperating well from the surgery. “She’s
well aware of everything that’s going on.
She’s able to do most everything she
wants to,” Mrs. Stowe said.

Mr. Stowe said that once Janus re-
covers from some minor bladder trouble
and returns to eating on her own, she will
stay in Baltimore on an out-patient basis
if the operations proves successful.
“She’ll stay . . . until all of her blood
counts are up and she’s eating well,”
Mrs. Stowe said.

through May 31, 1984.
c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

T

May 31, 1984.

c 1983, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

r

MAKE TRACKS FOR THE
BEST EATIN'ALL AROUND!

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
along this money-savin’ coupon.
| Ge) Ee) i) he)

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
- combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

only at participating Hardee's Restaurants | i i 9

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 = |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in |
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee’s Restaurants through n 7

During Janus’ hospital stay, Mrs.
Stowe is living in Baltimore at the
Ronald McDonald House, which pro-
vides housing for parents of children who
are critically ill and require extended
hospitalization. Mrs. Stowe has found
the House ‘an educational experience”
and a source of support from other par-
ents in similar circumstances.

Generous friends, residents, and stu-
dents in the Davidson area have raised
money through fundraisers and dona-
tions to help cover medical and personal
expenses incurred by Janus’ illness.

Mr. Stowe estimated that at least
$80,000 had been raised by the commu-
nity to help cover the expenses which
could total $150,000. Mr. Stowe added,
“T think the community’s taking good
care of her.”

On October 21 and 22 the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity and Fannie and
Mable’s Eating house played a 24-hour
volleyball-athon in the Davidson Com-
munity Center to benefit Janus Stowe.

They played 100 volleyball games
and collected more than $1,000 in dona-
tions. Students from PAX, Emanon, and
Sigma Phi Epsilon also helped out with
the volleyball-athon.

(Material also contributed by Ben
Rose, North Meck Newspaper. )

lA

Hardees

Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian 5

Student Evaluations

(Continued from page |)

the faculty November 3 urging them to
distribute the PAC’s course evaluation
forms in order to ‘demonstrate its wil-
lingness to have student evaluation.”

The PAC’s form asks student to tell
why they selected their course and in-
structor and how much time and effort
they put into the course. It also asks stu-
dents to comment on the positive and
negative aspects of the course and in-
structor and seeks suggestions on how to
improve the course.

McKelway thinks a majority of pro-
fessors will use some kind of evaluation.
In addition to the SGA and PAC forms,
many professors are distributing their
own evaluations.

The Faculty approved the PAC form
last spring, but the administration would
not accept the form because its prose
questions would be difficult to evaluate.

McKelway said the SGA has a “‘per-
fect right to pursue” its own evaluation,
but he thinks their action is “not very re-
sponsive to the faculty action of last
year.”

The PAC met yesterday to continue
discussing student faculty evaluation and
to work out specific agreements concern-
ing anew form. The PAC is now consid-

a TT a TE

ering a brief answer device that will be
more accessable.

The PAC’s new forms will have the
three prose questions from the old form
as well as several short answer questions.

McKelway said that the PAC has
“overcome its dispute” with the adminis-
tration and that he knows of “no disag-
reement now that ought to impede any-
thing.” He is confident that a new system
of student faculty evaluation will be in
place by the end of next term.

If the PAC fails to resolve the issue
by next term, Monroe said that the SGA
Senate could first directly petition the
Trustees, and if they still recevied no re-
sponse, they could conduct their own
evaluation and publicly disclose the re-
sults.

The SGA and the PAC have not met
this term to discuss student faculty evalu-
ation, although Monroe and McKelway
have discussed the issue.

The administration will not look at
either the SGA or the PAC forms. Both
forms will be returned directly to profes-
sors. The adminstration may hold con-
versations with professors concerning
the forms’ contenfand student reaction to
the forms.

Juniors and Seniors
Earn over $100.00 per month

9 a.m.-3 p.m. Mon.-Thurs.

If you are a math, physics, chemistry or en-
gineering major with a “B” average or better,
earn over $1000.00 per month through your
junior and senior years. .
The Navy’s NUPOC (Nuclear Propulsion Of-
ficer) Collegiate Program is looking for qualified
individuals. Other benefits include:

***$3000.00 cash bonus immediately upon acceptance into program
**#*$22,000 starting salary —$40,000 after just four years
***F REE Medical/Dental care and many other TAX FREE benefits
***30 days PAID annual vacation
***1 year graduate level training
***Immediate responsibility
***V aluable engineering experience
***Education benefits
*** Job security with fast promotions

If you’re interested in finding out more, send your resumé or transcripts to:

Roy Sarvis
U.S. Navy Officer Programs
1001 Navaho Dr.
Raleigh, NC 27609
Or call 1-800-662-7231

. summers included!

