“2

“4

“Friday, March 25,1983

Review Board Terms Changed

The Student Conduct Courtcil of Responsibility adopted an amendment to
the Code'of Responsibility which calls for a two-year student term on the Re-
view Board.

Under the resolution, one junior will be elected for a two-year term. Thus, a
junior and senior would always be serving on the board, giving it a sense of con-
tinuity, according to the amendment.

Under the current Code of Responsibility two seniors are elected yearly to
serve on the Board.

According to the Code of Responsibility, in order to amend substantive pro-

’ visions of the Code of Responsibility, the Conduct Council must reach a major-

: Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

ity on twd votes at least fourteen days apart. :

Dean of Students Will Terry said that “although the second yote hasn't been
held, elections for the Review Board will proceed as if the amendment had
passed both votes.” Terry anticipates no problems with gaining a majority on the
second vote. » .

Two Students Win Fiction Contest

For the second year in a row a Davidson College student has won the fiction
contest at the Hollins College Annual Literary Festival.

Senior Kirsten McDonald, an English major from Charleston, S.C., won
first prize with her story, “Good Luck With the Bad.” Senior James Barrat, a
philosophy student from Shepherdstown, W. Va., placed second with his story,
“Waiting for Starkweather.”

Their stories were judged among 165 other entries from more than 15 col-
leges in North Carolina, Virginia, and Alabama. and Poet Anthony Hecht,
poetry consultant for the Library of Congress, and fiction writer Alice McDer-
mott judged the entries.

Davidson College students are encouraged to submit their work each year by
English professor Anthony S. Abbott.

‘ “Both students are very talented writers,” Abbott said. “They have done out-
standingly well representing Davidson College, and we are very pleased and
proud of them.”

College Secretary Commended For Crime Stopping __

Jane N. Biggerstaff, staff secretary in the central services departmentat .
Davidson College, has been awarded a certificate of commendation from the
North Carolina Campus Law Enforcement Administrtors Association for help-
ing to break up a ring of bicycle thieves.

“Her alertness and prompt action . . . made it possible for the Davidson Col-
lege Public Safety Department and the Davidson Police Department to ap-
prehend three individuals for larceny of bicycles on December 17, 1983,” the
certificate reads. “Her involvement made the quick arrest and conviction possi-
ble.”

Biggerstaff telephoned campus security officers after she saw strangers
loading bicycles into a car near the campus, according to Jackie G. Hughes, di-
rector of public safety at the College.

Hughes is a member of the awards committee for the law enforcement ad-
ministrators association.

Biggerstaff has worked at Davidson College since 1971.

“Twelfth Night” to Play This Wednesday

The Acting Company, the touring arm of the John F. Kennedy Center in
Washington, will present Shakespeare’s cOmedy “Twelfth Night” March 29 at
8:15 p.m. in J. Spencer Love Auditorium at Davidson College.

First performed at a feast on Candlemas Day in 1602, “Twelfth Night, or
What You Will” is a comedy of romance and mistaken identity on the island of
Itlyria. -

The Acting Company consists of 17 actors and actresses selected from -

America’s jeading professional theatre-training programs and regional theatres.
It was founded in 1972 by John Houseman, who was then the head of the drama
division of the Juilliard School in New York, and Margot'Harley.
Admission will be free to season ticket holders and $7 for others.
For further information call the College Union at (704) 892-2000, extension
140,

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Devidson College.
Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-
2000 ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost
$12 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North

_ Carolina 28036.

Duncan Fraser, News Editor

Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor
“Thurston Hatcher, Features Editor
‘Barry Eliedge, Opinions Editor
Anderson Scott,’ Photography Editor
Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager

Ann Meador, Editor

David Resnik, Executive Editor

Jeff Mann, Associate Editor -
Ross Holt, Managing Editor: ¢

The Davidsonian a | . a

x

Davidson Students Attend Nuclear Freeze Rally’

‘A group of ten Davidson students and College.Chaplain Charlie Summers
participated in a national Citizens Lobby for the Freeze rally in Washington,
D.C. on March 8-9, organized in support of the House of Representatives’ Nu-
clear Freeze Resolution.

The event’s main activities included speeches by important pro-freeze or-
ganizers, and a rally on the West side of the Capitol at which Ted Kennedy
spoke. The Davidson group also met with Congressman Jim Martin (NC-R) and
Senator John East (NC-R).

Junior Debby Williams said the trip was successful. “It gave us a sense of
unity, and inspiration to keep working.” The group hopes to continue its lobby-
ing efforts, involving more Davidson students and enlisting the aid of communi-
ty members as well. .

Food Service Conference at Davidson College

College food directors, production supervisors, and chefs gathered at the
College Commons on March 21-22 for the National Association of College and
University Food Service (NACUFS) conference.

Dining Service Director Carleton Pritchard hosted the two-day conference
entitled “Professional Management for the Production Supervisor.”

“The NACUFS meets twice a year to bring college professionals together to
swap ides and share methodologies,” Pritchard said. “Professionals within the
field of college feeding as well as those that sell to the industry attend the confer-
ence in hopés of enhancing thier own operation.”

More than 15 colleges participated in the conference, including Virginia
Polytechnic Institute (VPI), Auburn University, North Carolina State Univer-
sity, Washington and Lee University , University of Georgia and Emory Univer-
sity.

Lerone Bennett to Lecture at Davidson College

Journalist, author, and historian Lerone Bennett Jr. will lecture at Davidson
College March 31 at 7:30 p.m. in J. Spencer Love Auditorium under the au-
spices of the Martin Luther King Jr. Lecture Series.

Bennett, senior editor of Ebony magazine since 1958, will speak on “Black
History, White History, and the American Dream.”

Bennett launched his journalism career in 1949 as a reporter for the Atlanta
Daily World. Promoted to city editor in 1952, he remained there until 1953
when he joined Jet and Ebony magazines. After serving as associate editor of Jet
for one year, he became associate editor of Ebony in 1954 until his promotion to

Finegan to Edit Quips & Cranks

Catherine Finegan is running unopposed for the editorship of the 1983-84
Quips & Cranks.

Finegan decided to run after working with Q & C first as a copy editor and
then as associate editor, holding the latter position since January.

When asked about plans and changes she had for the new yearbook, Finegan
said that the yearbook would be computerized for the first time.

“We would be able to put everything on the computer and spool it off to the
printer instead of writing everything four times.”

Finegan said a theme would be decided upon by late April and, according to
precedence, would be secret until the book is released.

Finegan already has the process of producing the yearbook well underway.
Currently, she has taken bids from four publishers and will accept one before the
summer.

During the summer, which she will spend in Cambridge, Finegan plans to
continue her yearbook work by designing the page layouts.

Finegan is currently an intern at the Observer and last week published an
editorial on “Latch-Key Children.”

When asked why she preferred the Q & C to more journalistic pursuits she
replied that she likes “the more creative aspect of the yearbook.”

News Staff: Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford, Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff
Holland, Tim McGaughey, Mike Tantillo, Dan Voorhis

Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Biran Butler, Craig’ Detweiler, Jonathan Glance, Bob
Finch, Thurston Hatcher, John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks,
Matt Morris, Tracy Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Laura McGee, John
Ruppenthal * 2

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, James Moore, Jim Morgan

