Students fora N uclear Freeze

A plea for sane arms control

By NORRIS FREDERICK

In the past year, a grassroots peace movement has
produced remarkable changes in United States politics.
The U.S. House of Representatives—where a year ago
‘the idea of a nuclear freeze would have been ridiculed-
—in July came within two votes of passing a resolution
favoring the freeze. Hundreds of local governing bo-
dies—including the Charlotte City Council and the
Mecklenburg County Commissioners—have voted for
freeze resolutions. In the October elections, // million
citizens (60 percent of those voting) voiced their appro-
val of freeze resolutions. In November, Business Week
released a Harris poll showing that between 1980 and
October 1982 approval in the American public for
greater military spending dropped from 71 percent to
17 percent, “the lowest level since 1971, when Amer-
icans were sick of the Vietnam war and sick of spend-
ing billions on it” (Business Week, Nov. 15, 1982, p.
14).

Although the above victories are primarily symbol-
ic, just last month a real victory over nuclear war prep-
arations occurred. For the first time in the history of the
cold war, a major weapons system (the MX missile)
was defeated by a house of Congress. The House, and
later the Senate, refused to appropriate funding for the
production of the MX.

For the first time, a major

weapons system was defeated
by ahouse of Congress

\

WHO SUPPORTS THE FREEZE?

The freeze is endorsed by Representatives; Sena-
tors; city, county, and state governments; virtually ev-
ery Protestant denomination in the U.S., the Catholic
Church in the U.S., and a large number of grassroots
citizens’ organizations (perhaps over 3,000 such local
organizations). Some local groups-are affiliated with
national organizations, such as SANE.

SANE was founded over 25 years ago by a group
concerned to bring a halt to atmospheric nuclear test-
ing. In that group were Saturday Review editor Nor-
man Cousins and Clarence Pickett, Executive Secre-
tary Emeritus of the American Friends Service Com-
mittee. The group formed ‘A Citizens’ Organization
for a Sane World” (or simply “SANE”) in order “to
develop public support for a boldly conceived and exe-
cuted policy which will lead mankind away from war
and toward peace and justice.” SANE played an impor-
tant role in the fight for the Limited Test Ban Treaty,
signed in 1963, and was one of the earliest opponents
of the Vietnam War. Recently, SANE lobbied support
that helped to defeat the funding for the MX missile.

Nationally, SANE has over 30,000 members, with
eight new chapters forming last year. Executive Direc-
tor David Cortright and a full-time staff of fifteen work
with a million-dollar budget to elect pro-peace offi-
cials, to lobby against the arms race, to produce a
monthly newsletter, to visit campuses to educate stu-
dents and faculty, and in sum to develop a far-reaching
citizen’s program for arms reduction and economic

en eee a oe 1
NUCLEAR WEAPONS CHART

ao

The dot in the center square above
represents all the firepower of World
War Il: three megatons. The other dots
represent the number of World War II
equivalents that now exist in nuclear
weapons. This is 18.000 megetons or the
firepower of 6,000 World War II's. The destructive power
United States and the Soviets share this 'f you place a aime cn this chart,
firepower with approximately equal those dots covered by the dime repre-
destructive capability. sent to y ali the

The top lett hand one enclosing 9 large and ‘medium size cities in the en-
on tire wortd.

(United States Senate staff have
reviewed this chart and found it to be an
of the

square encios:ng 24 megaions repre
sents one new Trident sub with the fire
pawer of eignt World Var II's, enough to
destroy every major City in the northern
hemisphere

The Soviets have similar levels of

just one Poseidon subrnatinve , equal to
the titepower of three World War II's,
enough to destroy over 200 of the
Soviet's largest cities. We have 31 such
subs and 10 similar Polaris subs.

The circle in the lower left hand

weapons arsenals.)

conversions. Much of the work nationwide is done by
citizens who volunteer their time and talent to work for
peace through their local chapter. Once of the most ac-
tive chapters in the United States is located in Char-
lotte.

Formed just over a year ago and headed by Jean
Wood, Charlotte SANE has been extensively involved
in educating the public about the arms race. Members
have shown the film “The Last Epidemic” and other
media programs to scores of church and civic groups.
Charlotte SANE has bought two full-page ads in the
Charlotte Observer to call for a nuclear freeze. The
group’s monthly newsletter on the peace race recently
went to over 5,000 North Carolinians. On the second
Sunday of every month, from 1 1:45-1:00, SANE holds
a Silent vigil, currently at the intersection of Morehead
and Dilworth, near Covenant Presbyterian Church. On
the third Thursday of each month, an educational pro-
gram is presented by 7:30 at St. Martin’s Church on
East Seventh Street. Charlotte SANE recently was in-
strumental in the formation fo a political action com-
mittee which intends to help elect public officials who
favor the freeze and peace.

WHAT STUDENTS CAN DO

SANE and other peace organizations not only face
being: called “communists,” but also face the vastly
more powerful and wealthier “iron triangle” of the mil-
itary, their industrial suppliers, and numerous public
officials. SANE needs can help in several ways.

(1)Educate yourself. Read, attend educational meet-
ings such as SANE’s, and discuss the arms race. (2)
Make some small step for peace, whether it be attend-
ing a meeting, participating in a vigil, or being a
member of a telephone tree. (3) Write letters to the edi-
tor of your hometown newpaper, and to your represen-

tatives, urging them to support the freeze. (4) Become .
politically active for a candidate who supports the

freeze. (5) Contribute money. A student membership
in SANE is only $10.00, about the cost of a record al-
bum. (6) Register to vote, and vote for candidates who
support a nuclear arms freeze and who oppose continu-
-ing the arms race.

(For information about Charlotte SANE, write c/o
P.O. Box 220101, Charlotte, NC 28222, or call Bruce
Thronton, 525-2501. For information about SANE in
other parts of North Carolina, write N.C. SANE

_ COUNCIL, P.O. Box 6004, Charlotte, NC 28207, or

contact Norris Frederick through Earl MacCormac’s
office at Davidson College.)

WHY A FREEZE?

It is critical that a mutual, verifiable nuclear wea-
pons freeze be adopted by the United States and the So-
viet Union now—before the present fragile nuclear
arms balance be made even more unstable by the prod-
uction of first-strike weapons such as the MX missile.
First-strike weapons would give the U.S. and
U.S.S.R. the capability of destroying the nuclear wea-
pons of the other side. If the two superpowers develop
and deploy these weapons, there will be in a time of cri-

8 So ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983
