Princeton
Theologian
Reads Frost

Associate director of speech at Prin-
ceton Theological Seminary William
Brower will present “A Friendly Visit
with Robert Frost” on the Davidson
College campus Wednesday, January
12. The one-man poetry reading will be
at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. There is no
admission charge and a reception will
immediately follow. the performance.

As a teacher of oral interpretation of
literature, Brower specializes in the
works of Robert Frost. Frost, who died
in 1964, received four Pulitzer Prizes
for his poetry and 43 honorary degrees
from universities here and abroad.

The program which will be seen at
Davidson in one which Brower has
presented coast-to-coast.. It. includes
recitation of some of the more than 60
Frost poems which Brower has memo-
rized, as well as commentary on the
poet’s life.

Brower, a member of Princeton’s
department of practical theology since
1954, formerly acted on stage and tele-
vision. He performed in the early 1950s
in such shows as “The Ford Theater,”
“Kraft Theater,” “Studio One,” and
“The Big Story.”

(Continued from p. 1)

EA,
me about that, but I explained . . . that I
just don’t enjoy competing athletical-
ly.”

As a freshman, Kiss received the
prestigious Edward Crosland Stuart
Scholarship to Davidson, and she has
maintained a 4.0 GPA throughout her
Davidson career. In addition to academ-
ics, Kiss is active in human rights advo-
cacy. She was a founding member last
year of the Davidson Coalition on El
Salvador, and currently serves as core-
group coordinator for the Davidson
Amnesty International chapter, a hu-
man rights organization.

Harvard Club
Holds Meeting

The Harvard Club of Charlotte held
its’ annual Christmas dinner meeting
Thursday, Jan. 6 at the Vail Commons
at Davidson College. The evening be-
gan with a champagne social hour at 6
p.m., followed by a dinner of roast sir-
loin with all the trimmings.

The program included a light-heart-

ed panel discussion titled “Liberal Arts

and Performing Arts,” featuring Presi-
dent of Davidson College Dr. Samuel
R. Spencer Jr., and conductor of the
Charlotte Symphony Orchestra Leo
Driehuys. Professor emiritus of English
Charles Lloyd, former coach of David-
son’s national champion 1979 College
Bowl team, moderated the meeting.

Driehuys was born in The Hague,
and received his degree with honor from
the Royal Conservatory of Music. He
served as conductor of three Dutch radio
orchestras and the Gelders Orkest in
Amhem before assuming his present
position in 1977.

He remains a permanent conductor
of the Radio Orchestra of the Nether-
lands, and served as guest conductor of
the North Carolina Symphony during
1980-81.

Kiss’s concern for human rights
stems from very personal circumstan-
ces. Her father was a political prisoner
under Nazi and communist govern-

‘ments and fled his native Hungary with

his wife in 1956 before the short-lived
revolution. She is aware of the “kind of
suffering that goes on in the world.” She
believes that “basic human rights are in-
dependent.of culture. . . . More work
needs to be done on determining what
basic human rights are—what every hu-
man being has a right to be granted, re-
gardless of where they live, what politi-
cal system they live under, or what their
race, sex, or religion is.”

Publication
Board

The Media Board has established a
publications board to be comprised of
the editors and business managers of the
five major student publications.

In a memorandum to the editors of
the Davidsonian, Hobart Park, Miscel-
lany, and Wildcat Handbook, Dean of
Students Will Terry outlined the tasks
which the new board will undertake.

The group will meet monthly to dis-
cuss activities and ideas about each pub-
lication.

Once a term the group will meet
with the Media Board to review publish-
ing schedules and to approve candidates
for elections of publication editors.

Letter: Pep?

To the Editor:

With great pride I rejoiced in the
sweetest basketball victory Davidson
College has experienced in many years,
being the victory over Notre Dame on
Tuesday, January 4, in overtime, 54-
51. Never have I seen the students more
involved in a game; never have I seen
enthusiasm for Davidson basketball at a
greater peak than at that game; and the
scene after the game on the basketball
court was reminiscent of years gone by.

[Rhodes] program doesn’t really look
for people with ‘causes’. . . but for peo-
ple with something that makes them
stick out.” The Rhodes program will
give Kiss the opportunity to “sink my
teeth into . . . the theoretical founda-
-tions for notions of human rights.”
Through her studies as a Rhodes Schol-
ar, she hopes to investigate human
rights conditions in Europe as part of her
research and study.

Kiss’s involvement with the issue of
human rights has motivated her to
develop herself into what she describes
as the “committed scholar,” a student
concerned with intellectual pursuits as

Her work as an advocate of human well as extra-curricular activities. Kiss

rights was definitely a factor in her se-

lection as a Rhodes scholar. “The

worries that often many students “don’t
see that these two things are worth ba-

This Davidson team is a team of which
the College can be proud, and a team-on
the upswing. However, one thing about
the game still bothers me after the cele-
bration was over: the actions of one ad-
ministration official towards a group of
Davidson College students sitting di-
rectly behind the Notre Dame bench.
Throughout the game, until this ad-
ministration official visited that section
of the stands, the students in that section
were heckling the Notre Dame bench
and, particularly, head coach “Digger”
Phelps. However, the heckling was
good natured, in the form of mainly tell-
ing the coach to sit down, and yelling
loudly during any timeouts. Such yell-
ing and jnterest in the game is what
gives a home team a home court advan-
tage. This occurred at the Notre Dame
game, until one certain school adminis-
tration official came and told the stu-
dents in that particular section not to do
it any more. This was totally disrespect-
ful of students’ rights and puts a definite
damper on school spirit.
Administration, let the students
have their fun at the games, and don’t
try to take away that fun by bothering
them during the middle of the game,
telling them not to yell, when they are
doing nothing but generating good
school spirit to start with. Students,
scream your loudest at the games, and
keep generating that home court advan-
tage that means so much. Such is all an
endearing part of collegiate athletics.

John F. Cutchin ’72

lancing out.” Kiss feels the Rhodes
Scholarship program will be an oppor-
tunity “to continue to do work in aca-
demics and in behalf of issues important
tome... and to find some kind of har-
mony between those two.”

As a junior, Kiss spent two quarters
studying at the Sorbonne in Paris. She
says the experience provided her with a
clear insight into the way she could con-
tribute to the Davidson community. “As
a student I had come to know the system
at Davidson and I had come to love it,
but [Paris] helped me to understand that
I could do my own thing here and be
comfortable about it.” Kiss served as
editor of The Davidsonian her sopho-
more year, and she is currently the se-
retary of the Women’s Concerns Com-
mittee.

THE DAVIDSONIAN.

_ Post OFFICE Box 218, DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

Subscriptions cost 12. per year within the United States and its possessions;

Rates for the Far East and Oceania upon request.

16. per year elsewhere in North America; 22!. in Europe (30° air-speeded).

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983
