The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983 19

~ OPINIONS

The Writing on the Wall ©

Mike Stephens

History is a funny world. In a nutshell, Webster’s
dictionary defines history as an edited version of what
really happened combined with the point-on-view on the
situation. As ofen as not what we recognize as history is
a written version of what is often called an oral tradition
or a story that has been passed down from generation to
generation usually not without a certian amount of em-
bellishment, characterization, and imagination woven
into the factual fabric. This is especially true of ancient
history. The study of history is becoming a game be-
tween the history student and the historian where the his-
tory student must pick through the historian’s opinions
and insertions to find the underlying facts. Often the his-
torian proves to be more interesting than the history he
relates and sometimes more important.

The phrase “It’s not what you say, it’s how you say
it” has never been more important than with history. A
fanciful thinker who writes historical fiction but is very
prolific has most probably a better chance of being re-
membered and studied in the distant future than the true
student that faithfully records events as they happen and
then writes them down in a pure fashion. These accurate
history books are seldom distributed as widely as the
books that deal with bits and pieces of fact that have been
adulterated by tales of mystery, intrigue and romance. It
is quite possible that 2000 years from now our entire his-

tory will be based on the cultural and factual points that
some anthropologist will draw from a few chapters of a
Harlequin romance novel. I can just imagine the scholars
of tomorrow thinking that the entire populace of the
twentieth century lived in large ante-bellum mansions
with ivy covered walls. Every man was a playboy lawyer
or doctor and every woman was a secretary, nurse or a
prostitute.

To make matters worse, unlike the Mesopatamians
who had the foresight to record their history on clay tab-
lets, for the last 75 years modern man has been writing
on paper with a very high acidity. Even now books in the
library of Congress as well as other great libraries around
the world are dissolving on the shelves and in the arc-
hives due to the composition of the paper on which they
were printed. It may happen that 100 years from now all
of the printed material we now have will not exist in its
present form.

As for computers, the average life of a magnetc tape
or disk is about twenty years. All the information stored
on these tapes and disks just fades away unless recopied
in some way. Unfortunatetly, the standard way of deal-
ing with this is to copy the programs onto the acidic
paper which is already dissolving.

Microfilm offers some help, but not much. The
chemicals which cause it to record the words and pic-
tures of our lives will eventually fade as does the mag-
netic information on the disks.

This does not mean that all of the great advances in
science and culture made in today’s society will eventu-
ally fall by the wayside, but what it does mean is that the

history that those persons 2000 years in the future will
study will probably be of the same type as the history we
study now—oral traditions passed down generaton_to
generation that somewhere along the line got written
down and then retold and the passed down until the last
recorded account that remained intact was discovered by
an interested history student.

The only way I can think of to preserve our culture
and history in an unadulturated form is to do as the
Mesopotamians and Egyptians did and record it in some
medium that is essentially unaffected by the passage of
time. It is my guess that 2000 years from now the most
famous person of our day will be the “historian” who re-
cords the events of his life in some concrete medium
such as stone or metal. I personally am not concerned
with being famous 2000 years from now, but I am sure
that someone out there is. If you feel like it will in some
way benefit you or mankind to have your name remem-
bered throughout all eternity, this is all you have to do.
Go to the hardware store and buy a cold chisel and carve
the history of the world on a stone wall somewhere. Our
history from your point of view will be the basis for the
way twentieth century life will be perceived by those fu-
ture history students. When you finish, be sure to proof-
read you work and make sure that you didn’t leave out
anything that you feel to be important and remember,
Don’t forget to sign it.

Mike Stephens is a freshman from Roswell, Georgia

No Explanation Condones Soviet Act

Scott Otto

oe Bran = : Eo a ee ree * ” a _

The shooting down of the Korean Air Lines’ 747 with
a Soviet heat-seeking air-to-air missile was a grievous
act. Nonetheless,in due recognition of the deaths of the
269 people aboard the jet, the events in the wake of that
act are even more gri€vous. The early responses of the
Soviet government leave the inhabitants of the world in
an even more perilous situation. The Soviet government
refused to accept responsibility for the lives of the pas-
sengers and crew members aboard the plane, failed to
emit condolences to the families of those deceased, re-
fused to offer an acceptable explanation for the attack,
and refused to take actions that would preclude such an
event from recurring.

Condolences are not necessary beyond the fact that
they would ease diplomatic tensions; not taking respon-
sibility for the attack is understandable to a certain extent
(an internal analysis and study would somewhat reason-
ably delay an explanation); and insuring against a repeat
performance can be delayed for the short term. But the
Soviet Union’s insistence that the entire event was a
propaganda ploy of the U.S. government brings forward
the callous, irresponsible, and ruthless nature of the
Soviet regime.

The entire event is at first shocking, but then, not sur- .

prising. The Soviet regime continues to attempt to prove
its strength. The downing of the plane was merely a reac-
tion to an intrusion of its air space. Irrelevant is the fact
that the intruder was a normal, civilian aircraft with 269
innocent people aboard. Of course, Larry McDonald, a
U.S. Congressman from Georgia, was aboard. How-
ever, McDonald, the former doctor-tumed-politician,

ViL@e iS NeEVeR HaviNG
To SAY You’Re SORRY.

chairman of the conservative John Birch Society, and a
staunch anti-Communist, may have been the object of
the crime. Other opportunities which would provoke
fewer global antagonistic feelings surely could be found
for such an assassination attempt.

Once again this international injustice cannot be seen
as a surprise coming from a nation with as many human
rights violations as the Soviet Union, so many of which
have been at the cost of its own citizens. Recall the pur-
ges of millions during the Stalin era, the persecution of
Jews, and simply the limited ability of people such as the
Pentecostals just to. get out! Although the Soviet leaders.
such as Andropov and Gromeyko hold the direct respon-

sibility for such actions, the Soviet citizenry is also at.

fault as it differentiates itself from that of the U.S, in at
least one important facet: U.S. citizens on the whole will
not say “red before dead.”

A few questions remain. First, how long will it be until

So
&

the entire event is forgotten? Naturally, we will in the
same way we forget about the incident in 1978 when
Soviet fighter planes forced a civilian 707 to land and

.,, caused the death of two passengers. Likewise, we.forget _
‘the assassination attempt on Pcpe John Paul II. the

Soviet-inspired instigation of martial law in Poland
along with the outlawing of Solidarity, and the im-
perialistic invasion of Afghanistan. This event strikes
closer to our emotions, though. Many civilians died.
Any of us could have been flying to Korea. But short
memories will continue to be to the Soviet Union's ad-
vantage.

This event surely verifies Reagan's media-denounced
characterization of the Soviet Union as evil. Neverthe-
less, soon we will hear, “But the Soviets denied shooting
down the plane, and no concrete evidence can be found
to confront them,” or, “But how do we know the CIA
wasn’t involved with the 747,” or, “But there was a re-
conaissance plane in the vicinity.” Reports indicate that
plane had landed in Anchorage an hour before the actual
attack on the 747. The U.S. has not acted perfectly in its
foreign policy decisions,’ but no explanation now can
condone the behavior of the Soviet Union.

Finally I wonder to what extent the past week will
change the views of those who hold an accomodating
view of the Soviet Union. Just last spring almost all the
Davidson faculty signed a statement calling for a bilat-
eral nuclear freeze, and 550 Davidson students sup-
ported the same statement in a referendum. Seeing that
the U.S.S.R. obviously cannot be held accountable for
its actions, we must wonder if those professors and stu-
dents would be yet so willing to sacrifice our defense and
security against the trustworthiness of the Soviet regime!

Scott Otto is a senior economics major from Atlanta,
Georgia
