Friday, November 4, 1983/The Davidsonian 3

Four Watson _Fellowship Nominees Selected

By LISA THOMAS

Four nominees have been selected
to represent Davidson in the national
level competition for Watson Fellow-
ships. Jeb Benedict, Malcolm Campbell,
Stephanie Moffett, and Steve Soud were
chosen by the selection committee com-
posed of nine faculty members and three
students.

The Watson Fellowship is an essen-
tially non-academic grant which gives
students $11,900 and one year to travel
and pursue a project which they design
themselves.

The selected seniors submitted pro-
posals which represent a wide array of
countries and investigations. Benedict
would like to study the social and cultural
aspects of Taiwan's return to Chinese
rule in the year 1999.

Campbell proposes to continue a
biological study which he has pursued at
Davidson for three years. He feels that he
can come to some definitive conclusions
about the hearts of lungfish and hopes to
study them in Australia, the only place in
the world they can be found.

Moffett wants to go to Senegal and
Indonesia to study the ancient storytel-
lers of those nations.

Soud’s proposal focuses on South
Africa where he wishes to study the role
of sports figures as a source of national
identity.

The selection process began about a
month ago with the first round of inter-
views and the submission of the written
proposals. The selection committee first
narrowed the field from fifteen to seven
or eight candidates. After a second round
of interviews the four student were cho-
sen to represent Davidson in the national
competition.

Jeb Benedict, Malcolm Campbell,

Stephanie Moffett, Steve Soud

“Davidson has always had at least
one recipient but we average two per year

[of four nominees],” said philosophy
professor Lance Stell, chairman of the
selection committee. “So if you are
named as a Davidson nominee, you
probably have a fifty-fifty chance of re-
ceiving a fellowship.”

According to English professor Gill
Holland, who is also on the committee,
“The proposal needed to be imaginative,
feasible, and personally valuable to the
student.” The committee had no stan-
dards or requirements which they had to
use in their decisions. Stell said that in
the interview he looked for an “inner
drive, or passion to find out the answers
to certain kinds of questions.” The pro-
posals, he said, were of a variety ‘as
wide as the imagination can come up
with.”

The committee placed emphasis on
extracurricular activities which reveal in-
itiative and commitment to the student’s

Carroll Overton

particular area of interest.

The content of the proposal was not
as important as the way it was presented.
The Watson fellowship is unique in its
flexibility and accomodating nature.
Stell hopes that more students will be-
come aware of such opportunities. “We
usually have to beat the bushes around
here to get students to apply for graduate
fellowships.”

Two of Davidson’s nominees re-
ceived Watson fellowships last year —
Scott Eblin and Marvin Overby. Eblin is
now in Kingston, Jamaica, studying the
Caribbean Basin Initiative, an economic
aid package which promotes _ the
economy of the Caribbean by encourag-
ing foreign investment. Overby is in Ire-

land examining the role of the European
Economic Community in cross-border
relations in Ireland, France, Belgium and
Northern Ireland.

The national organization which
sponsors the fellowship states its purpose
is “to provide Watson fellows an oppor-
tunity to explore with thoroughness a
particular interest, to test their aspira-
tions and abilities, to view their lives and
American society in greater perspective,
and concomitantly, to develop a more in-
formed sense of international concern.”

The fellowship was begun in 1968 by
Mrs. Thomas J. Watson in honor of her
late husband who was the founder of
I.B.M. Since its beginning, 1,035 Wat-
son fellowships have been awarded.

Trustees Okay Chapel Hour

By ALLISON WILLS

The Davidson Board of Trustees en-
dorsed the proposal to reinstitute chapel
programs at Davidson at their annual fall
meeting held over last weekend. “The
Trustees did not order us to do it,” Dean
of Students Will Terry said. “They just
endorsed the idea and urged the President
and Academic and Educational Policies
Committee to pursue it if it would be
feasible with the new schedule.”

The Trustee meeting was routine as
expected with most controversial issues
and major decisions delayed at the com
ittee level awaiting the appointment of a
new president.

It was reported in the closed execu-
tive session of the Trustees that the pro-
cess of naming a new head for Davidson
is taking longer than expected. Chairman
of the Presidential Search Committee

Ben Craig explained that the delay is a re-
sult of the careful consideration of the
numerous highly qualified candidates
which the nationwide search has produc-
ed.

Nevertheless, new Trustees were
sworn in prematurely so they will be elig-
ible to vote if a special meeting is called
to endorse a new president prior to the
customary February swearing in. The
new Trustees are Robert L. Avinger,
George Butler, Stuart R. Dickson, Rev.
Robert Grigsby, David T. Johnson, Ed-
ward J. Mack, and George G. Trask.

Friday evening the Trustees were
honored by the SGA Trustee Contact
Committee. About forty students were
on hand to meet and socialize with their
assigned Trustees. Saturday morning the
Trustees participated in the Covington
Golf Facility Dedication.

900 Room Attendance Suffers, Business Drops

News Analysis

By DAN VOORHIS

A month has passed since pitchers
disappeared from the 900 Room. In that
time the number of patrons has dropped
sigificantly, and some students continue
to question why the change is necessary.

“There's been a big dropoff in busi-
ness,” bartender Bill Crone said. “People
who want to drink are going elsewhere.
It’s just a shame people aren’t coming up
as much as they used to.” Students seem
to be staying away in part because of the
extra problems involved in getting beer
and wine. “The 900 Room has lost the
benefit of the doubt,” Crone said.

The system currently requires stu-
dents to show I.D. at the door, get hand-
stamped, and show that stamp to the bar-
tender. The rule is one beer per hand
stamp.

Dining Service Director Carleton
Pritchard denied the correlation between
the new procedures and the low turnout.
October has always had low attendance,
while November shows a large increase,
according to Pritchard. “It’s a temporary
phenomenon. Last week showed a strong

_upswing,” he said.

But the pitchers controversy goes
beyond the logistical problem of getting
a beer. Some students opposing the new
policy feel it is a question of honor.

“They have taken away the opportu-
nity to be honest. they don’t trust us,”
senior George Thompson said. He sees a
difference between what the law de-
mands and what the policy does. “What
they do to enforce the law is to interpret
the law. Pritchard interprets this to mean
no pitchers,” he said.

“The issue is the law, not the pitch-

ts,” Union Night Manager Jim Perry
said. “We want students to use the room,
but at this time the only way to comply
with the law and protect the students and
the College is not to serve pitchers.”

“The choice is not pitchers or no
pitchers, but fiow we’re going to comply
with the law,” Union Director William
Brown said. “The law is very rigid.”

He disagrees that the system ques-
tions students’ honor. Instead, it is a mat-
ter of protecting the bartenders who are
liable up to $2,000 or two years in
prison. Also liable are the potential stu-
dent violators for $35, as well as the Col-
lege, whose beer and wine license could
be revoked, and the student body who

would lose use of the 900 Room. A ~

drinking violation is not under. the Hanor

Code but does fall under the Code of Re-
sponsibility. According to Brown, en-
forcement is not up to the College but to
the ABC board which does not recognize
the Honor Code.

Bartenders currently cannot monitor
the 900 Room. Pritchard said he did not
want workers to patrol the floors search-
ing for violators. As the law stands, the
bartender can be penalized much more
than the violator. ‘““We have to do things
to give the bartender a chance,” Brown
said.

Thompson felt that Patterson Court
parties operate under the same law yet do
not have the same restrictions. Accord-
ing to Thompson, Court parties use
hand-stamping, a warning sign posted
near the bar, and student honor. Monitor-
ing by house members is unnecessary to
uphold the law. “It’s student monitoring
themselves,” junior Taylor Bowen said.
They reason that if the law works in the
houses, it would work in the 900 Room.

Brown denied that the 900 Room and
Court houses are analogous, because the
900 Room operates under license and
would incur a much greater penalty than
the houses would. “Our policy is very
different from the fraternities’ ,” he said.
“It is much more realistic for our situa-
tion.”

Pritchard said the 900 Room's popu-
larity depended not on drinking but on
the intimate surrounding and program-
ming. He does not feel the need to push
beer as a business would. “It is offered
but not promoted,” Crone said.

“You have to give something if you
take something away,” Pritchard said of
the policy change. In exchange, the 900
Room now serves beer in 16-ounce cups
and plans to go to 20-ounce cups some-
time this year. These cups, though large,
are single servings, whereas the pitchers
are designed to serve a group. It is impor-
tant in the eyes of the law that a signifi-
cant effort is made to prevent underage
drinking.

Thompson sees no real difference be-
tween a large cup and a pitcher. Both
offer an opportunity to someone deter-
mined to violate the law.

Other ideas include a “pitcher's
night,” but underage students would
have to be excluded. The Union Board
and Pritchard hoped to avoid that by ban-
ning pitchers in the first place.

Table service is another option, but
Pritchard said it would be too expensive.
Monitoring the floor would destroy the
900 Room’s club atmosphere. Brown
welcomes any ideas to allow both pitch:
