THE DAVIDSONIAN

LX X//

Volume +¥¥1l, Number 16

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 1, 1983

Architect's model of the new sports complex

Plans For Athletic Complex
Near Completion

By DAVID RESNIK

All segments of the College — Trus-
tees, administrators, faculty, and stu-
dents — are discussing plans for a new
athletic complex.

Athletic Director and Head Football
Coach Ed Farrell presented a report on
the Athletic Department’s needs and sug-
gestions for the new sports center at a
meeting with the Trustee Building and
Grounds and Athletic Committees on
March 24.

Farrell said that “nothing official
came out at the meeting,” but the plans
are “close to official.”

The two Trustee committees will
evaluate Farrell’s report and present their
recommendations at the Trustee’s next
meeting in May. According to Farrell,
“The Trustees have accepted the need for
a new facility”; they have not approved
the final plans. They have also decided
that the sports center should be built on
the football practice fields.

Athletic Department’s Requirements

The Athletic Department’s require-
ments for a new sport center include an
arena for intercollegiate basketball; a
core area for locker facilities, office
space, and training rooms; a natatorium;
new handball and racquetball courts; and
a multipurpose area.

The department has recommended
that the College build the complex in ph-
ases in case it cannot immediately obtain
funds. The basketball court and core area
would be built first, the natatorium sec-
ond; and the multi-purpose area would be
built last.

The Sports Center would cover
120,000 square feet, according to the
Athletic Department’s recommenda-
tions. Davidson’s largest building is the
E.H. Little Library, which covers
100,000 square feet.

The basketball arena would seat
5000-7000, with many moveable seats,
according to the requirements. The

A long and grueling process

natatorium would contain intercollegiate
swimming and diving facilities as well as
spectator seating. The multipurpose
room could be used for intramurals, P.E.
courses, or possibly varsity tennis.

The lower level of Johnston Gym
would be converted into art classrooms
and studios. The upper level would re-
main open for intramurals, physical edu-
cation courses, and free play. If the Col-
lege raises enough money to build a new
multi-purpose center, then the Johnston
Gym would be converted into a theater.

The old football practice fields would
be relocated near the jogging trails and a
parking lot would be constructed in back
on the sports complex, according to
Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze.

Meetze said that naming the con-
struction cost of the new complex would
be only a guess. Three years ago the Col-
lege predicted a new sports center would
cost $5-4 million, according to Meetze.

(continued on page 6)

Faculty Salary Adjustments Begin

By BOB LOPER

Vice-president for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zim-
mermann has been cloistered in his office
for the last two weeks determining facul-
ty salaries for the 1983-84 school year.

Of the money that Davidson will pay
to its faculty in the coming year, eight
percent will be available for salary in-
creases. Zimmermann and College Pres-
ident Samuel Spencer work together to

decide ‘how much each faculty member
deserves, although Spencer has final ap-
proval.

Zimmermann hopes to present the
salary proposals to Spencer within the
next week. He intends to notify faculty
members of their new salaries “by the
second week in April.”

Determining faculty salaries is a long
and gruelling process since merit alone
determines the criterion for salary in-

creases. In accordance with the decision
of the Trustees, there are no “cost-of-liv-
ing” salary adjustments. To clarify this
subjective concept of merit, however,
Zimmermann uses the Code of Faculty
Evaluation Procedures, a document ap-
proved by the faculty and the administra-

tion in 1979.
According to the Code, Zimmer-
mann must consider how near the profes-
(continued on page 4)

Anderson Scott

Search
For New

President |
Continues

By ERIC LONG

The Faculty, Student, and Trustee
Presidential Search Committees held
their first joint meeting to review and dis-
cuss presidential candidates March 28.
Chairman of the Trustee Committee Ben
T. Craig hopes to “reduce the group to a
core of solid candidates” by April 18.

The committees reviewed 200 candi-
dates Monday. The three committees ex-
changed questions and recommendations
then narrowed the number of candidates.
All committee members questioned de-
Icined to release information concerning
the candidates. The committees agreed
to conduct the search in confidentiality,
with only Craig answering questions.

Craig described the search process.
‘We have set up an office to receive
nominations (mail to 1200 Commerce
Center, Cahrlotte, N.C. 28202), which
we distill into one-page forms and distri-
bute to each committee member, who
grades the applications. The members
have several weeks to look them over,
and to ask for more info. On Monday, we
reviewed the candidates in the order that
their nominations had been received.
Every one has an opportunity to speak, to
ask questions. The next step in the search
is to reduce the number of candidates
further and to develop additional infor-
mation about them. Often, nominations
don’t include a comprehensive biog-
raphy, and the committees need to round

out the resumes.”
(continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

‘Wade Barber: Davidson grad
runs for N.C. Attorne , General. See p.
3

Chaucer! Donaldson visits and lec-
tures. Read about it on p. 7

BB goes dry—travel with a dry
group on p. 10

Ruggers romp: see the p. I 1 story

Self-Selection, a better definition
on p. 15

