14 Friday, April 15, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

“att ‘ BE cieh.

Paul Price heads the ball

J mons. The following is a list of

Greek Week!

Greek Week was held this
week. The Phi Delts led the com-
petition but the last event, sing-
ing, still remains. It will be held.
today at 1:30 behind the Com-

the partial results.

12 3 4
Bowling: Fiji SAE PKA Delts
Dunkball: PKA Delts SPE SAE
Frisbee: KA PKA SAE Fiji
Tug-o-War: Delts SAE Fiji KA
Chugging: Delts Fiji SAE KA
Head-Ball: PKA Fiji Delts SAE KA
Singing

Totals:
Delts 14
PKA 13
Fiji 13
KA 12
SAE 11
SPE 2

Anderson Scott

Women’s Tennis Rolls

By CATHERINE SMITH

In spite of a disappointing week for
the women’s tennis team, Coach
Caroline Brown’s attitude remains posi-
tive. She claims she will continue to
“look for an invitation to the dance.”
This seemingly eccentric remark actually
refers to the highest goal of her team.
“The dance” is the National Tournament
for NCAA Division III teams which will
be held near Los Angeles, May 9-14.

Last Sunday the Wildcats travelled to
the College of Charleston, where the
hosts won, 7-2. Adelyn Lutz won her
singles match, while Tricia Ives and
Joanna Fleming pulled in another point.
In-spite of the overall match score, the
team came away with their heads up.

Tuesday brought High Point to

Davidson and disappointment to the
team. At the end of singles, Davidson led
4-2 and therefore needed only one dou-
bles match to win the match. The High
Point team, however, dug in and rallied
for the three doubles matchs to edge by
Davidson and win 5-4. Brown remarked
‘“You’re always more vulnerable when
you're ahead.” She also admitted that the
loss was “quite a disappointment.”

By Wednesday, the Wildcats re-
gained their confidence and pulled off a
solid (7-2) win over Peace College. This
victory brought the team’s record to 10-5
for the season.

The team will have home matches on
Saturday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of
this week. And, with a little ‘luck,
perhaps the Lady Cats can expect an invi-
tation to that dance in California.

Homer Sparks Victory

By BOBBY BARNES

Scott “Sparky” Redding’s two-out,
three-run homer in extra innings enabled
the Davidson baseball team to end a six-
game losing streak and salvage a split
doubleheader against scrappy Warren
Wilson on Wednesday. Redding’s blast
to centerfield, coupled with a third-in-
ning double, gave him five RBIs for the
game and put the Cats ahead 12-9.

Doug Wiley picked up his first win of
the year as he relieved fellow Pike Ed
Whitesides in the sixth to end a Warren
Wilson rally. The home team came from
six runs down in the bottom of the
seventh to tie the game, but Wiley, Red-
ding, and company proved equal to the
task.

Scott Weaver, battling the effects of a
recent collision, broke out of a mini-
slump with a pair of hits and three runs
scored. Philip Gordon continued to show
the form that earned him Conference
honors two years ago with three hits on
the day, including two run-scoring dou-
bles.

In the opening game, Warren Wilson
took advantge of a series of cheap hits to
score three runs in the first inning. Single
tallies in the third and fifth innings were
enough to top the Cats 5-3. Weaver (1-3)
went the distance and suffered the loss
for the Cats, who stranded eight runners.

Davidson was forced to play with a
new, unpracticed lineup against Warren
Wilson. Starting second-baseman David
Emery felt compelled to stay at school
and go to class, thus missing the trip.
Helfant, a second-baseman by trade, was
able to fill in the void, but Chip Knox
was understandably rusty at third.

Earlier in the week, the Wildcats ran
head-on into a red-hot Citadel team in
Charleston and did little to threaten the
Bulldog’s twenty-game win streak. The
Cats fell victim to a couple of old

nemeses in dropping the opener of the

conference twinbill 5-2.
The Cats jumped off to a quick 1-0

Rain Muddles Track Season

By STEVE SOUD

Rain has rendered the Davidson track
season a sloshy mess, but the men’s and
women’s teams hope to salvage what
they can this weekend at Pembroke State
in the NAIA District 26 meet. Last
weekend the teams waded through a ten-
team invitational at Johnson C. Smith in
preparation.

At J.C. Smith, the women’s relay
teams copped first place honors. In the
400-meter relay, the team of Sharon
Bryant, Laura Hills, Jean Webb, and
Judy Dalton took laurels. In the two-mile
relay the team of Karen Hendrix, Hills,
Webb, and Dalton won the race. Frank
Ivey starred for the men as he won the
1500-meter relay.

The damp weather, however, has re-

ally hindered team improvement, the
major goal. “Most of the team are reach-
ing self goals, but they are in the orienta-
tion of a team concept,” Coach Gwen
Harris explains. “For example, I have a

goal for Laura Hills, who has a goal for
herself. I know what she can do; she
knows what she wants to do.” Improve-
ment is the goal, but when gallons of rain
force Johnston Gym to become a track,

- trip,

lead in the first as Philip Gordon’s two-
out triple chased home John Mahoney,
who had just doubled. The Cats, how-
ever, could manage only two more hits
the rest of the night. Chip Knox’s sac-
rifice fly in the fourth gave Davidson its
only other run.

In the bottom of the first, Davidson
pitcher Bob Barnes (1-5) let a couple of
bad calls start him on an uncharacteristic
wild streak that enabled the Citadel to
score three runs on only one (infield) hit.
Once out of the opening frame, Barnes
pitched his usual game giving up two
runs the rest of the way. John Mahoney
led the Cats with two hits in three trips to
the plate.

Citadel pitcher Mike Cherry demon-
strated to the Cats why he is second in the
nation in strikeouts in the nightcap.
Cherry sent 13 Davidson hitters back to
the dugout — seven of them looking —
in raising his record to 6-0 with a 13-1
victory. A streak of wildness of his own
led to the only Davidson run in the sec-
ond inning as Tim Waters walked with
the bases loaded to score Doug Wiley.
The Cats could not take full advantage of
Cherry’s wildness, leving the bases full
in the first two frames. In these two in-
nings, as in all but one of the other five,
Cherry killed Wildcat hopes by bending
the inning with a strikeout.

Mahoney and Gordon collected the
only two hits for Davidson, while the
Citadel put together five-run innings in
the third and sixth to hand Matt Walker
(2-3) the loss.

Davidson continues its April road
heading to the Virginias this
weekend (with or without all its players)
to challenge conference foes V.M.I. on
Saturday and Marshall on Monday.
Davidson will probably send Barnes and
Walker to the mound Saturday in hopes
of picking up their first league wins. The
Cats are now 5-5 on the year and will
play at home again sometime before

-graduation.

it’s a difficult proposition. “Every meet
we improve,” Harris says, “except when

~ it rains.”

When the team hits Pembroke State
this weekend, they'll be shorthanded, as
they have been all season: they’ll have
only one field competition, high jumper
Jeff Carter. The team consists of more
than twenty people, mostly distance run-
ners. “One of our goals is to say, “Let's
go for this relay,’” Harris adds. Team
composition pretty much precludes all
else.

Harris laments, “I’ve been sitting in
the rain for the last three weeks. For Lyn-
chburg, our first meet, it was cold. Ever
since then it’s been raining.” With a little
luck, the rain will go away, and the track
team can wield a bit of magic at NAIAs.
