The Davidsonian/Friday, September 30, 1983 5

Mollenkott Discusses Feminine Biblical Imagery

By ROXANNA GUILFORD
and ANNE LOFQUIST

Freedom, power, women’s roles,
and the various Biblical images of God
were the topics of discussion when
Staley Lecturer Virginia Mollenkott visi-
ted Davidson Monday and Tuesday.

The first of two major lectures, “Bi-
blical Imagery of God as Female, And
Why it Matters,” advanced the concept
of a non sex-specific deity. Before delv-
ing into the implications of her topic,
Mollenkott was quick to state the per-
spective from which she was speaking.
Mollenkott terms herself an Evangelical
Feminist, basing her beliefs in the equal-
ity of the human race upon scripture.
Taken contextually, the Bible ‘“under-
girds equality,” she said. The basis of
this is her belief that all are created in the
image of God. This supported her rejec-
tion of either the male or female domi-
nance.

The concept of a male God is at the
root of our patriarchal society, Mollen-
kott said. While she did not argue against
the images of Father God, she strongly
advocated the use of other imagery, in-
cluding female and nature imagery.
Some of the other Biblical images of God
which Mollenkott discussed included
Mother, midwife, housewife, woman in
labor, lactating woman, mother eagle,
mother bear, river and rock. Her case
was not for hanging God but for delimit-
ing God — freeing God from our precon-
ceived notions. God, according to Mol-

re wae

lenkott, is He, She and It. “God is greater
than what we can say about Him, Her, or
It,” she said.

Mollenkott pointed out that God as a
father figure began as an extremely ef-
fective metaphor palatable to the pat-
riarchal Hebrew society. However, as
Mollenkott pointed out, “Use a metaphor
long enough [and] it sounds like truth.”
What has resulted is a linguistic idol —
the image of God as only male.

If God is clearly male, Mollenkott
reasoned, then women become second-
class citizens because they do not suffi-
ciently resemble God. Mollenkott ob-
served that the Pope has refused to allow
women to become priests for this very
reason. So just as racial discrimination
suppresses people based on the color of
their skin, Mollenkott said sexual dis-
crimination suppresses people based on
the shape of their skin. The image of a
male God therefore has immense politi-
cal power.

Although the Bible (2 Peter 1:4)
maintains that “‘all are partakers of the di-
vine spirit,” the divine worth of women
is ignored, Mollenkott claimed. She
viewed this as the basis of much of the
violence against women. If men would
acknowledge that women are created in
the image of God, she said, they would
be far less likely-to rape and exploit
them. She carried this idea into the area
of God in nature images. Once humans

see that the divine spirit is present in the _

land and water, they will be less likely to
rape and exploit the earth.
é — LLL I. Pa IIIS

Suzi Rasmussens’

‘Old Corneliue
® Fish Market_

&
~Ovster Bar ~

North Main St.,

Ceaame>

Cornelius

892-3820 _~_

=a

OYSTER BAR

—

EAT HERE OR CARRY
OUT
Wea- Sal 11 AM; 9PM,

Casuals
for the

skirt with multi-colored

sweater. Cotton knit

turtlenecks by Hook.
101 North Main Street
Felephone 704/892-8156

Collegiate

Pictured: J. G. Hook jean

Paul Trever sweater and
Baszio jean with Alpine

TRADITIONAL AND CLASSIC CLOTHING

Since womanhood was considered
twice removed from the divine, women
were encouraged to devalue their female-
ness, Mollenkott said. At one time
women were promised that their reward
for a spiritual life would be becoming
men in heaven.

Mollenkott condemned no one for the
devaluing of women throfgh the ages,
but she did provide some reasons for its
prevalence. One is the predominance of
male images of God in scripture. She at-
tributed this to a patriarchal society and
to the fact that presenting God with dual
sexuality would have cohfused many
people. There was the risk of confusing
one God with dual sexuality with two
Godheads.

Some “fault” for the numerous male
images lies with the Hebrew scribes who
would shift to masculine pronouns to
show reverence. Even milk cows became
“male” when they had contact with the
Ark of the Covenant. The most astonish-
ing thing, Mollenkott says is that any
female images made it through at all.

While Mollenkott’s first lecture dealt
with freedom from stagnant notions of
God and women’s relationship to the di-
vine, her second one concerned freedom
from violence and dominance. The thesis
of her lecture, “The Biblical Uses of
Power,” was that hope for the future de-
pends upon rethinking societal goals
from competition to cooperation. We
must come to view power as “power
with” each other rather “power over”
each other, she said. Taken to its full po-

tential, this power can lead us from pat-

riarchy to mutuality, Mollenkott said.
Mollenkott discussed five areas v1

violence in society. The first, Intra per-
sonal, appears to be the root of most
other forms of violence. It involves self
hatred and an inability to trust the grace
and love of God. Interpersonal violence
manifests itself in numerous ways, but is
rooted in one human’s viewing another
as worthless.

For these two types of violence, Mol-
lenkott considered the ability to love cen-
tral to any solution. We must be able to
love and accept ourselves in order to
reach out to others. Additionally, we
must be open to love and empowering.
Once we have reached this point, we can
enter mutual, cooperative relationships.

Mollenkott said violence does not
limit itself to the personal level, how-
ever, so personal solutions are not
enough. She examined three other forms
of violence. Structural violence involves
society’s injustice which estranges cer-
tain segments and allows poverty and
violence to become entrenched. Ecologi-
cal violence is the rape of nature for the
exploitation of its natural resources. The
final type, military violence, is a type of
violence for which $1 billion is spent
every 15 hours, according to Mollenkott.

While providing no solutions to
global problems, Mollenkott suggested
such things as international cooperation,
the yielding of international
sovereignties, and the development of
global authorities to protect resources.

Career Symposium Draws

~ Business

By DAVID McGEE

Jobs are tough to find these days,
even if you know what kind of career you
want. The Career Symposium, which
will be held next Monday through
Wednesday, will focus on issues of
choosing and establishing careers.
“Davidson students are looking more to-
wards careers after graduation. The
Career Symposium is an answer to that
need,” said chairman Steve MacMillan.
“This is a great opportunity for students
to meet people who have made a career in
the fields which students are interested
in.

The symposium, sponsored by the
Student Government Association and the
North Carolina Fellows, will begin Mon-
day at noon with a luncheon in the Com-
mons with David Waddill ’81 of First
Union Bank in Charlotte and Debbie
Carlton 81 of Chase Manhattan Bank in
New York, N.Y. They will speak on the
value of their Davidson education in their
careers.

Tuesday’s activities will start with a
luncheon in the 900 Room at 12:30 p.m.
Carrol Willingham of Robinson / Hum-
phery / American Express will speak on
women in the working world and women
in non-traditional careers. She is noted
for her success in a primari ly-male-domi-

‘eaders, Alumni

nated field. Wednesday's 900 Room
luncheon will feature a practice inter-
view session with David McClintock.
executive recruiter for First Union Bank
in Charlotte, and Sherburne Laughlin
°83,

At4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Tuesday and
Wednesday speakers from business,
public service, and professional com-
munities will present hour-long work-
shops in Chambers. A schedule of times
and room numbers will be posted in the
lobby of Chambers. The workshops will
cover a variety of topics: television, law,
theater arts, publishing, the ministry, in-
surance, foreign service, banking, sports
medicine, and others. There will be a
wine and cheese reception each day at 5
p.m. in the Commons for the guest
speakers, faculty, and students.

Speakers expected to attend are Rolfe
Neil. publisher of The Charlotte News
and Observer; James Holshouser,
Davidson alumnus, attorney and former
governor of North Carolina; Boris Sel-
lers, executive director of Spirit Square
in Charlotte; Julie Thordarson. director
of corporate communications — for
Barclays-American; Dr. Bobby Alford,
dean of the Baylor University medical
school; and retired army General Harry
Griffith.
