Oboist Debuted with Columbus Blues

But Joseph Robinson prepared Bach cantatas for Plott Memorial

By KIRSTEN MCDONALD ’83

After performing here on Monday night, Joseph
Robinson flew back to New York for a concert the fol-
lowing evening. The Davidsonian caught up with him
after his Tuesday evening performance, and though
tired, he spoke with us at length about his feelings, im-
pressions, and views concerning the Donald Plott
Memorial Concert.

Davidsonian: Can you tell us how you felt about the
concert as a musician?

Robinson: I think it went better at night. We were
afraid it wouldn’t, because for both of us (Workman
and Robinson) the program was a marathon. He under-
stood it better than I did. I didn’t know until we got into
it that it would be a serious matter of endurance and just
plain physical stamina. There’s a certain physical drain
involved in being in full dress and under the lights.

Davidsonian: How did you find the auditorium
acoustically?

Robinson: Well it leaves something to be desired,
more from the standpoint of the performer than the au-
dience. We kept being reassured that we did project
very well [which was helpful because] it’s not the kind
of setting on stage that gives a lot back to the per-
former. I’d played there before with the Piedmont
Chamber Orchestra and knew I could trust it, so it was

Facts

Notable Patrons:
Mr. David Rockefeller
Food Consumed;
1,000 oysters
400 hot puffed pastries
400 water chestnuts
1,100 lbs. of fried sea scallops
125 Ibs. beef stroganoff
50 Ibs. rice

tSource: Charlotte Observer.

not a negative factor as far as I was concerned. I liked
the size. It was the right size auditorium for the music
we were doing.

Davidsonian: What was your role in creating the
Plott Scholarship and organizing the concert?

Robinson: Oh my goodness, it goes back about a
year. Louse Martin [widow of former College Presi-
dent P. Grier Martin] had talked to me in New York
about having Bill [Workman] and me perform at Da-
vidson. So that had been on the back burner. Then the
surprise of the degree conferral came about a year ago.
That gave us a kind of impetus to go on and do some-
thing about a joint concert. There was not a lot of dis-
cussion about the program because Bill agreed with me
that it would be great to do these cantatas. 56 and 82 are
the best music ever written for oboe and baritone. We
questioned whether Bach was the right kind of thing es-
pecially in terms of public interest. As far as we were
concerned a Bach concert was what we wanted to do.
That meant getting some kind of little orchestra. The
next step in the evolution of this was that I called Ro-
bert Shaw and asked him to conduct. I’d worked with
him for six years in Atlanta. He had recorded these can-
tatas 25 years ago almost to the month. He said he
would. The endowment idea developed as soon as the
thought to ask Shaw to conduct arose. We realized that
there was some kind of income potential and in order to
justify his participation without some kind of fee we
would need some kind of purpose other than our own
pleasure of performing. Bill and I wanted to do some-
thing for Don Plott.

Davidsonian: And this seemed like the perfect oc-
casion?

Robinson: Yes. This whole event has been d'rare
focal point. J think it’s rare to have this many threads of
his [Plott’s] life come together at once.

Davidsonian: How did Mehta end up as the con-
ductor?

Robinson: After about three months of planning to
have the concert on Dec. 21, which was within the
frame suggested by Robert Shaw’s secretary they basi-
cally changed their minds. So the thing kind of abort-
ed. Of course by that time there had been a lot of inter-
nal planning and organization and thought about this
among staff people like [Union Director C.] Shaw
Smith and (College President] Sam Spencer. A lot of
people had begun really hard work on this. When he
canceled we were left high and dry. That was about the
time I was performing the Strauss Concert with Zubin
in New York. I don’t know. I suppose it was just an im-
pulse. Why not? Zubin owed me a favor. In the first
year that I was in the orchestra he asked me to help him
by teaching a member of the Israeli Philharmonic. So
for about four months this fellow studied with me. At
the end of that time Zubin asked me what my fee should
be. I said I’d contribute this because I knew how much
he’d done over the years for the Israeli Philarmonic.
That had been kind of like credit in the bank and I used
it for openers. He loves this repertory, especially can-
tata 56. It was one he wanted to do on the Europe tour
but at the last minute there were scheduling problems
and they had to cancel. So I said here’s your big chance
to do that cantata you couldn’t do before. I think he and
Bill had worked in Italy so he trusted him enough to go
along. He was not so sure about the orchestra. But he’d
never been to that part of the country. I felt like the lead
porter in his safari south. He’s a great sport and a
warm-hearted fellow, unlike many of the world’s lead-
ing conductors. So he entered this with a good attitude.
That’s why he agreed to do the Radio Station Fund
Drive. Basically as long as he approved of the artistic
results he was willing to have the tapes be released all
over the world. That’s our best hope in the future of en-

riching the endowment. If we can sell the video tapes
competitively the money could go into the endowment.
We've been told that something like PBS might pay
something like $50,000 for them.

Davidsonian: How do you see the scholarship be-
nefiting a rising musician ?

By Anderson Scott °84

Robinson plays transfixed

Robinson: It’s certainly not our intention to com-
pete with or surplant the function of an established con-
servatory. The idea is to keep the options open for the
person who at eighteen is not sure he wants to bet his
life on a professional music career. I myself was a little
leery of the profession. My first looks at it were not
very encouraging. My parents were not particularly en-
couraging of my musical interests beyond a certain
point. The conservatory route is often so narrowing
that it leads to disillusionment. Art by itself is not suffi-
cient to redeem life. It becomes jumping through hoops
for people.

Davidsonian: Do you ever regret not attending a
conservatory?

Robinson: Not at all.

Davidsonian: Do you have any feelings toward
contemporary music writeen for orchestra?

Robinson: | think it’s fair to say that most of my
colleagues in the orchestra world are conservative. It’s
probably in some part because we’ re intellectually and
technically lazy, and resistant to have to learn our craft
all over again because some composer wants us to play
our instrument upside down. Also for the most part
there’s a sterility about it and a kind of embarassed
shunning of beauty.

Davidsonian: Is there anything you'd like to add?

Robinson: Yes, we oboe players teeter on the edge
of ugliness and catastrophe because of those tiny pieces
of cane. As far as the scholarship goes, I hope it works.
I think there’s a great deal of potential. What we've
done is just the beginning. Would you do something
for me? There was never any mention made in connec-
tion with this whole affair to acknowledge the contri-
bution of Martin Booksban, who gave his time to do
the radio broadcast, and Louise de la Fent our record-
ing agent who also contributed her time. We over-
looked their role in any of the credits.

Robinson is presently the principle oboeist for the
New York Philharmonic Orchestra. Even he admits
that he has by far surpassed all his musical dreams that
began forming on the night of his debut in September
1958 at the Phi Delt house where he played “Columbus
Stockade Blues” to a banjo accompaniament.
