The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957-British) Direct-
ed by David Lean. Screenplay by Carl Foreman and
Michael Wilson, based on Pierre Boulle’s novel.
Starring Alec Guiness, William Holden, Jack Haw-
-kins, Sesue Hayakawa, Geoffery Hume, and James

Donald. 161m. Rating: saiiadiad

Pop films chairman John Munson is on to some-
thing. For the second time this year a brilliant “pop”
film will be shown at Love on Saturday Night. The
first movie in this unofficial series, East of Eden,
featured James Dean’s extraordinary performance
as Cal, the rebellious son of moral-minded farmer
Raymond Massey. Tomorrow, an even better film,
David Lean’s magnificent war tale, The Bridge on
the River Kwai will be presented. Like Eden, it’s a
must-see movie.

The plot concerns the efforts of a group of Japa-
nese World War II POWs, who, headed by fellow
British POW Alec Guiness, build a bridge for their
captors, while William Holden, the American
POW, sets about to destroy this structure. The ac-
tion is first-rate, in the grueling David Lean (Dr.
Zhivago) style, with plenty of stirring scenes and
oddly enough, psychological drama. It is essentially
a pro-human nature statement, for Guiness and his
men become so absorbed in building the bridge, in
cooperating, that they forget the war, but what
about William Holden’s reminder that there is a
war. Lean takes what might have been sappy melo-
drama and produces a compelling film of human
compassion.

Alec Guiness is as always marvelous, and de-
served every inch of the Oscar he received for his
performance. In all his movies, Guiness poroves to
be the driving actior, the versatile grab-all man, but
he has been sadly overlooked. Generally, Guiness
plays supporting roles, but in Kwai he steps into the
limelight and bathes in it, the audience bathing with
him. William Holden is, well, William Holden, but
so what? His character fits into the movie perfectly.
Sesue Hayakawa also turns in a memorable perfor-
mance as the Japanese leader with a heart.

Like other Lean classics, this one is well over 2
hours long but seems remarkably short and stands
with Lawrence of Arabia, and Dr. Zhivago as
Lean’s monument trilogy.

P.S. Writers Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson |

were blacklisted at the time this movie came out so
the academy award went to author Pierre Boulle
(Planet of the Apes) who didn’t speak a word of
English. Ugh.

The Week at

the Movies

with
Matt the Cat

Lili Marleen (198t-German) Directed by the late,
great Ranier Werner Fassbinder. Starring Hanna
Schygulla, Giancarla Guannini, Mel Ferrer, Karl
Keing Von Hassel and Karin Baal. Rating: **'!4
The German director Werner Fassbinder, who
shot himself last year was genius. He essentially
reopened the door to German Cinema after it had
been closed for nearly 40 years, and in his brief
film career (10 years), cranked out over 50 mo-
vies. His films are realistic harsh portrayals, per-
haps revealing more of the tormented man inside

_ than anything else. On this level, Lili Marleen,

Fassbinder’s last film ends, however the movie
loses much of the power it could have had due to
it’s overwhelming pretentiousness.

The story, a direct remake of Josef Von Stern-
berg’s The Blue Angel (the film which quinched
Von Sternberg’s and Marlene Dietrich’s film ca-
reers) works in fits and starts. I can’t entirely rec-
ommend Lili Marleen but I can commend Fine
Film for having the guts to get a foreign film,
which is almost a dirty word in most of America.
See this movie so Fine Films will know that Euro-
pean films are not box-office bombs at Davidson,
even though it’s a second rate film from a first rate
director. There’s just too many good foreign mo-
vies out there to let us blow it.

Diner (1982) written and directed by Barry Levin-
son. Starring Kevin Bacon, Mickey Roarke, Da-
niel Stern and Timothy Daly. Rating: ***

Diner is a breakthrough film. Finally an adult
movie with splendid acting, heartfelt story and di-
rection is getting national attention it deserves rather
than going to “cult-heaven.” The plot is Levinson’s
almost autobiographical look at growing up in Balti-
more during the ’50s, and while it doesn’t make
“important” statements, Diner manages to be a mi-
nor achievement.

The four leads are all perfect, but Mickey
Roarke and Tim Daly are especially good. Roarke
plays a reluctant beautician, of all things, trying to
get a job that will fit his male image better. Daly’s
Charles Atlas type attitude is hysterically funny
when it is plopped into a Haircut Heaven and he
milks the role carefully. As the reluctant husband-
to-be sports fan, Tim Daly wins all the honors. Per-
haps the best scene in the movie is when, because of
his second thoughts in marriage, Daly schemes to
have his wife pass a sports quiz before he will marry
her. The tension is as high as when Oedipus solved
the Sphinx’s riddle. Director Levinson, who has
made the traditional pilgrimage to Hollywood fol-
lowing the success of Diner may have already burnt
out, but Diner is a wonderful film filled with
warmth and human emotions. See it.

Great Expectations (1946) directed by David Lean
based on the Charles Dickens story. Starring John
Mills (Hayley’s father), Valerie Hobson, Bernard
Miles, Francis L. Sullivan and, as great as ever Alec
Guiness. 116m. Viewers Guide: ****

After Citizen Kane and mid-term, what more
can we ask from Engell’s film class? Why, David
Lean’s (yes, him again) adaption of Great Expecta-
tions, showing at Perkins this Friday at 7:30, will, I
promise, go way beyond yours. Made in what many
consider Lean’s golden period, Great Expectations
is a wonderful adoption of a wonderful book and
highly recommended (as are the rest of the film
scheduled for this term).

This faithful version of the book is full of pleas-
ant surprises in both the acting and directing
corners. John Mills scores in this typically realistic
Dickens tale as the mysterious benefactor who
creates a gentleman out of degenerate orphan boy.
The direction is superlative, with Lean keeping the
film moving at a fast clip. I don’t think you’ll find a
better version of a Charles Dicken’s tale anywhere

and Great Expections is a must-see movie.

: — . =

18

THE

DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

