Three New Books from Professors

Ault- Analysis of developmental psychology

By CATHI DUMAS ’83

Dr. Ruth Ault has recently published her book
Children’s Cognitive Development, Second Edition,
with Oxford University Press. Illustrated by Fred Win-
kowski, the book serves as a critical analysis of the re-
search done concerning the two main perspectives in
developmental psychology: Piaget’s theory-and infor-
mation processing theory. Although it contains very
little jargon, the book is not meant as a “how-to” book
for parents or educators but as a supplement to begin-
ning-level developmental psychology texts.

Ault’s 1983 publication is the second edition of the
book. The first was published in 1977 and has since
been translated into Portuguese (“All I can read of it is
my own name!” Dr. Ault says). Why a second edition?
As she says in the preface, an author must “be suffi-
ciently embarrassed over ill-written passages” to write
anew edition. Also important is that a great deal of new
research, a small part of which she did herself, needed
to be incorporated. Since 1977, major research in the
areas covered by the book has been occurring in the So-
viet Union, Canada, and the United States. Ault con-
siders it important to include this research, not only for
the new information in provides but also to broaden
American students’ knowledge of where and what kind
of research is being done.

Jean Piaget, the Freud of developmental psychol-
ogy, is long winded and difficult to understand, but
Ault is a master at making the obtuse understandable.
A prime motivation for writing this book was that
Piaget’s work is so important and so often poorly un-
derstood. The basis of Piaget’s theory is that children’s
thought processes develop through qualitatively differ-
ent stages. In the first stage, thought consists only of
schemes, or repeatable motor activites. Finally, in a
stage that some adults never even reach, thought can be
highly abstract. Information processing, on the other
hand, proposed that children’s thought is not different

from adult thought, only less efficient and able to con-
sider less material. °

Ault has edited another book, Developmental Per-
spectives, that covers a broader range of topics at ad-
vanced levels. But, she says, Children’s Cognitive
Development “is more fun because it’s all mine.” In
preparation for this publication, through a grant from
Davidson’s faculty development fund, Dr. Ault tra-
velled to Boston and Chicago to observe schools in
which Piaget’s theory is put into practice. The travell-
ing was done during the academic year, while Ault was
teaching a full course load, but most of the writing was
done in the summer months.

Dr. Ruth Ault

Krentz reexamines Xenothon

BY FRED BROADWELL ’83

Dr. Peter Krentz has recently published a book
which he hopes will cause a stir, among the circles of
classical historians, that is. “I went out on a limb,”
Krentz admits. His book, entitled The Thirty at Athens
(Cornell University Press), attacks the old notion that
the thirty-man oligarchy which ruled Athens in 404
B.C. was a tyrannical and brutal regime. Krentz postu-
lates that the Greek historian Xenothon unjustly and in-
accurately criticizes the “thirty”, resulting in a miscon-
ception which has lasted to this day.

The idea for the book germinated while Krentz was
studying as an undergraduate at Yale. “I wrote my se-
nior thesis on this topic and then did my doctoral dis-
sertation on the same thing,” he says. Krentz confesses
that “from the beginning I thought I might make it into
a book.” Krentz used readily-available sources for his
research. “For this kind of research you don’t need to
go to Greece,” he comments. Krentz spent two sum-
mers working on the book, one of which was spent at
the University of Missouri where his fiancé was study-
ing.

Lp mee aii ee liege ae RT A |
THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983

What is so startling about Krentz’s hypothesis?
Krentz believes that he is the first scholar to apply the
growing skepticism of Xenothon’s credibility to the
rule of “thirty.” Xenothon has long been considered a
reliable source by historians because of the contempo-
rary nature of his writings. Krentz thinks that Xeno-
thon was actually a disillusioned supporter of the
“thirty” and that this strongly biased his opinion of
them. He reinterprets the rule of the “thirty” using
Aristotle as his main source, and comes up with a more
favorable view of them. Krentz hopes that the book
stirs some controversy, but, to date, no reviews have
appeared.

What is Krentz’s next project? He hesitantly rep-
lies: “It’s a book, tentively entitled The Face of Hoplite
Battle. 1 want to attack the idea that Greek infantry bat-
tles were like rugby or football games,” he says. Ac-
cordingly, this summer Krentz will embark on his re-
search, with the help of a computer, in an attempt to stir
the facts (and possibly the historians) once more.

Reichs views physical
anthropology

By ELIZABETH BRAZELL ’83

Hominid Origins: Inquirires Past and Present, edited
by Dr. Kathleen J. Reichs, is a compilation of seven ar-
ticles which present an interdisciplinary approach to
the study of hominid origins. The book presents some
of the most recent developments in the field and repre-
sents differing points of view.

Dr. Reichs’s introduction is an overview of con-
temporary research, contributions by different disci-
plines, and theories of hominid origins The book, in-
tended as a text or text supplement for upper level
courses in physical anthropology, is not an introducto-
ry text, as anyone unfamiliar with the field would
quickly discover.

Most of the articles resulted from a symposium at
Northern Illinois University which Dr. Reichs organ-
ized in 1976. The publication of this book was one of
the ideas behind the planning of the symposium.

Two other articles were included because Dr.
Reichs felt the need for presentation of behavioral re-
construction and reinterpretation of old theories. All
the authors are from universities, but not all are in
teaching positions.

The major delay in publication arose from the con-
tinuous outpoufing of knowledge in paleoanthropol-
ogy. As soon as an author submitted a manuscript, new
evidence invariably surfaced in the field, and the arti-
cle had to be revised. A personnel problem within the
first publisher resulted in the search for another, but
Dr. Reichs’s main problem was getting the book to
press before it became outdated.

Dr. Reichs’s field of expertise is osteology (the
study of bones), and this publication on the physical
and behavioral differences between early hominids and
modern humans bears a direct relationship to her field.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes let-
ters from our readers. We try to print
all letters that are of general interest,
but we adhere to these four guide-

lines:

1. We require that letters be in our
hands by Tuesday 7 p.m.

2. We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3. We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s phone
number and address. If you have a
compelling reason for us to withhold
your.name, explain your situation to
the editor, Stewart Cauley.

4. We reserve the right not to print
letters that (a) function as advertise-
ments; (b) contain innuendo, off-co-
lor slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent
a viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in many other letters printed
on the same topic. We also reserve the
right to condense very long letters:

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed
in the letters we print.

