The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983 13

—From the Locker Room: ACC All Stars

By STEVE SOUD

Don’t judge a book by its cover, don’t judge a
conference by its champions. Friday night | had the
opportunity to “coach” (I use the term loosely) an all-
star team of seniors from Davidson, Catawba, Pfeif-
fer, and Wingate against an ACC all-star team. Only
once (the Boston College point-shaving scandal)
since the Chicago “Black Sox” scam of 1919 had
there been a more remarkable rig job than this game.
It was a tawdry example of what big money sports can
become. ;

The fans had barely placed their big toe in the
gym before the money changers beset them. On sale
were ACC hats, ACC shirts, ACC bumper stickers,
ACC posters, ACC you-name-it. After the fans
packed themselves in tiny Mooresville High gym, the
salesmen peddled their paraphernalia into the stands.
The almighty dollar reigned supreme.

With everyone seated and waiting for their favor-
ite ACC star to loom on the horizon, some clown (and
I] don’t mean the kind with a funny suit and makeup)
played cheerleader and attempted to teach the
Mooresville crowd ACC cheers. “UVA! UVA!
UVA!” The players gradually trickled in and saun-
tered onto the court. Our favorite MC greeted Doug
Newberg (Virginia) and Chip Engelland (Duke) with
their respective cheers, and then he ventured near my
spot on the bench.

“Are we gonna do any Davidson cheers or are you
only catering to the ACC?” I asked indignantly.

He mocked me through the microphone, “Some-
body wants to know if we’re gonna do any Davidson
cheers.” No response.

Then he delivered a lengthy address to the crowd
preparing them to greet N.C. Staté players Bailey and

Whittenburg with a thunderous “Hello Thurl! Hello
Dereck!” in unison. The two stars skipped the gym
and took a roundabout route to the locker room. Re-
venge was sweet.

The ACC all-stars were wearing red, white and
blue (what else?) jerseys with ACC All Stars in-
scribed on front. When my team came on the floor,
they wore light blue, also with “ACC All Star” jer-
seys. Eventually the referees came in and informed
me of the rules: all man-to-man, only one time out
and that in the last minute of the game, and they
weren't going to call many fouls. There was even a
makeshift, masking-tape three point line. They told
me all this was for the fans. The only thing they didn’t
have for the fans was the 30-second shot clock.

I started Horace Fauntleroy (Pfeiffer) at point,
Lonnie Hines (Wingate) at shooting guard, Bob Van-
noy (Catawba) at forward, Cliff Tribus at forward,
and Maurice McDaniel (Catawba) at center, not so
much because they were the best five but because it
represented the most schools. My bench consisted of
Richard Wilson, Brian Rowan, Gary McDonald, and
Cleveland McCray (Catawba).

Ours was the better team, given a fighting
chance. In one instance Whit tackled Fauntleroy be-
fore a foul was called. I asked Horace what sparked
the conflagration and he said he had hacked Whit on
the elbow, forcing the mighty Dereck to shoot an air-

ball. I thought Whittenburg was class until then; he —

really could have hurt Horace. As the game progres- ‘
sed, the touch-fouls got called on us, the tackle fouls
on them.

The halftime dunk contest was indicative of the
“home job” going on. Each team was to have three
dunkers, winners to be judged by crowd applause.

Already a disadvantage. I had to beg to get three guys
out there. Tribus, McCray, and McDaniel went for
us; for them, Jim Braddock (UNC), Craig Robinson
(UVA), Thurl Bailey and Alvis Rogers (Wake
Forest) — that’s right, four for them, three for us.
Cliff tried the most imaginative dunk — a between-
the-legs, off-the-backboard top-dunk that didn’t go
down. Robinson did a pretty dunk for them. (Brad-
dock couldn't dunk without hanging on the rim.) In
the second round, Cliff did a Sampson-style shot that
sent the ball bouncing from the floor back past the
rim. When they announced the finals, it was Robin-
son and Rogers, who had impressed none save his
mother, Cliff had been robbed. Robinson won, how-
ever, on the best dunk of the night.

By the end of the evening we resigned ourselves
to defeat. Cliff and Brian gained some consolation
with two dunks apiece. We even pulled to 109-105
with 4:30 left (all the Davidson guys were in), but |
had to substitute. (I could only substitute on dead
balls; the ACC subbed after baskets. They called time
out whenever they wanted.) We ended up losing 131-
119, or thereabouts.

Dereck and Thurl had a grand time. When a team-
mate got fouled, Dereck came over to our bench and
yelled to us and the crowd something about karate
and “It’s like Kung Fu out there.” Thurl had five or
more slams.

Unfortunately, hundreds of kids didn’t have such
a grand time. They paid $5.00 to get in, and then,
goaded by the emcee, bought $5.00 pictures for the
champs to sign. Oh yes, they signed some, but then
asked for a dinner break, saying they'd return to
finish up. They never came back. The kids waited for
hours. It was unconscionable.

Despite Declining GPA’s Mens Tennis

Women’s Tennis Seeks NCAA Bid Slams FTSU

By STEVE SOUD

The women’s tennis team, reputedly
having the best team GPA on campus. Is
hoping to ruin their painstakingly built
3.5-plus by flunking their exams. Actu-
ally, they don’t so much hope to flunk
their exams as they do to miss them. With
a lot of wins and a little luck, they'd like
to be in California at the NCAA Division
III national championships there from
May 9-14.

Here’s the trick: an NCAA commit-
tee of five people picks the top eight
teams in the nation to go to California.
They give an additional at-large bid,
which is probably Davidson’s best shot.
The team figures UNC-Greensboro is
their prime competitor for a berth. As for
their chances, sentor Leesa MacPhail
figures, “Since we just started in
NCAAQ Division III, we don’t play any-
one in that division, so that’s gonna hurt
us.”

However, she notes, if the whole
team doesn’t get a bid, individuals may.
Although the team is 16-5 thus far,
Joanna Flemming is 12-2 in that stretch.
She and doubles partner Tricia Ives are
13-1. “That’s our most consistent team
by far in doubles,” said first-year coach
Carolene Brown. The numbers one and
two doubles teams are about .500. Indi-
vidually, said Brown, “We have high
percentages in just about everyone.”
That’s easy to do when several wins

tt Gia.

come 9-0.

“It would help us to do well,” Brown
continued, “to have good performances
against ETSU and Appalachian because
they’re Division | NCAA, as is Furman
University. Furman University will be
the last match of the season; I’m excited
it is the last match of the season. One, it’s
a Southern Conference school; two, it’s
traditionally a very strong match. It goes
down to the wire.”

She added, “I love having the other
team cope with clay. It’s a slower type of
game. You're in the point much longer.
and it demands ground strokes. You have
to sit on the baseline and stroke the ball.

a3 t 1 Phd td “ Heth ear vid

re

0 A all Slate.

You have to have a good, fundamental
backhand and forehand.”

The women have had no problem
with their ground strokes this week. On
Tuesday they beat Pfeiffer 7-2, and they
followed that up Wednesday as they ri-
veted Anderson Junior College, 8-1, in
an exhibition match. Yesterday they won
handily over East Tennessee, 6-3. Mon-
day they’ll get in another Division |
match against Appalachian, snowed out
from last Monday.

In the meantime the women will con-
tinue to build their winning percentage.
all the while hoping to ruin their GPA.

Po ee ee

ment.”

By TIM MCGAUGHEY

The Men’s Tennis Team battled to a
2-2 record this week making the ‘Cats re-
cord 14-8.

The Cats split the two non-conter-
ence matches, defeating Washington and
Lee 9-0 over the weekend before falling
to South Carolina Tuesday. These
matches bring the racketeers into the
tough conference schedule and end non-
conference record at a healthy 11-6

The team also split two Southern
Conference matches. Saturday the Pala-
dins of Furman defeated Davidson 8-1.
Yesterday the Cats came back with
power. Reversing last year’s 9-0 defeat
at the hands of East Tennessee State Uni-
versity, the Cats rebounded for an 8-1
victory. ETSU came in with a 20-8. re-
cord but the Cats beat the high-strung op-
ponents. Coach Jeff Frank explained, “I
told the team that we were playing on
clay and to be pattent. ETSU is not pa-
tient enough and gets overanxious.” The
strategy paid off and the Cats scored one
of their most impressive victories over a
angry ETSU team.

Three tough matches against Ap-
palachian State, Marshall, and Univer-
sity of Tennessee-Chattanoga face the
team in their last week of the season. Joy-
ous over yesterday's wins, Frank said.
“We really needed this one to get ready
for the {Southern Conference] tourna-
