The Davidsonian/Friday, April 15, 1983

Drop Add Policy too Stringent

William Naso

Davidson College enforces an administrative policy
seemingly peculiar to this institution. This policy limits
any student from withdrawing from an academic course
without reasons of proven psychological disorder or se-
vere educational problems, e.g., a student being placed
in a third-level music course when he is only qualified
for a first-level course. Thus, no student can merely drop
a course for his own personal reasons without suffering a
non-qualified “F.” Although seldom mentioned, this
stringent policy often results in academic and career set-
backs for the Davidson student. Because he cannot with-
draw from a class in which his academic performance is
at best poor, the Davidson student suffers a loss of com-
petitiveness in applying for graduate study compared to
many other college students.

For example, two pre-med students, one studying at
Davidson, the other at Yale, are each enrolled in physics
and chemistry. Both are near failing and realize that two
such courses taken simultaneously are what one might
term “academic suicide.” Consequently, the Yale stu-
dent withdraws from his physics class, recovers to a “B-
plus” in chemistry and continues to progress toward en-
trance to medical school — retaking the physics class in
a summer session, wherein he devotes exclusive time to
physics, thus securing an “A.” Conversely, our David-
son student cannot withdraw from either his physics
course or his chemistry course and struggles to a “D” and
“C-plus” respectively. The Davidson student, because
of an administrative policy, suffers in grade-point aver-
age and ultimately in his chances for acceptance to medi-
cal school.

Besides the substantial loss of graduate school com-
petitiveness, the Davidson student possesses less flexi-
bility in his basic course selection. The very fact that the
administration allots only one week for a student to de-
cide upon the merits of a particular course illustrates that
inflexibility. For example, if a student “adds” a course
late in the “add-drop” period, he has one, or perhaps
two, class meetings in which to evaluate the course and
to decide whether that particular course is of the quality
that he desires. The above example is not unusual — in
fact, it is quite common. The Davidson student, within

the framework of a one-week “drop” period period, pos-
sesses limited flexibility in course selection — many
times enrolling in an unsuitable course only because of
the pressure of an impending one-week “drop” period.
Upon closer scrutiny, the “drop” dilemma appears
inherent in the Davidson perception of scheduling; that
is, if one “drops,” he must “add.” Thus, our pre-med stu-
dent cannot “drop” a damaging course, even though it is
to his advantage to do so, for at Davidson, no student can
fall below the normal class load of three, unless, of
course, he is neurotic or has some other psychological
disorder. Even so, one wonders why such a student must
reveal all his personal and emotional problems simply in

One wonders if a Davidson

student has control over his

education if he cannot even
determine if he will
“add”. . . or “drop”

order to “drop” a course. If a student maintains that he
has had psychological problems, he must enumerate
them to some recognized official which seems both em-
barassing to the student and lacking in confidentiality
overall. Futhermore, the policy of a minimum three-
class schedule, in effect, diminishes the effectiveness
and desirability of all Advanced Placement courses. A
student who enters Davidson with six A.P. credits can-
not concentrate on a demanding pre-law curriculum by
taking several terms with only two classes; rather, he
must either disregard his A.P. credits or, at most, be in-
tent on early graduation.

Although contrary to Davidson policy, the wisdom
of a two-course load seems obvious for both our pre-med
and pre-law students. Davidson prides itself on

graduationg students qualitied for professional school,
yet the College hampers its ability to do so by refusing to
allow such students to take lighter loads, or, at the very
least, to drop a course past the one-week mark of a term.
One wonders if a Davidson student has control over his
education when he cannot even determine what courses
he will “add” or, sppecifically, “drop,” even within the
guidelines of the area requirements. It seems that both
the faculty and the administration often fail to recognize
the vital point that they work for the students, not vice-
versa. It is the student who pays over $8,000 per year,
not the faculty member nor the administrator. Such a
sum should be adequate for the privilege of course selec-
tion.

Quality academic institutions such as Yale, Univer-
sity of Virginia, University of Richmond, Brown, and
Bucknell University allot their students seven weeks,
twelve weeks, seven weeks, twelve weeks, and six
weeks respectively in order to determine the quality of a
course. In fact, many state universities, U.Va. included,
allow their students up until the last week of classes to
drop a course. Obviously, Davidson would never lower
itself to the level of a state school, but one wonders what
is unreasonable about a four-week period in order to de-
cide the worth of a course, or to determine whether the
degree of difficulty is too overbearing when com-
pounded with a similar course, such as in the example of
our pre-med student.

Perhaps the reasoning behind such a guideline stems
from the notion that Davidson must maintain its high
academic standards. However, when it is known that
such quality schools such as Yale, U.Va., University of
Richmond, Brown, and Bucknell all allow their students
at least six weeks to withdraw from a course, that argu-
ment seems weak. The Davidson student, because he is
not allowed to drop a course beyond the one-week dead-
line, loses competiteveness when applying for graduate
programs, has less flexibility in course selection, and in-
directly loses the total effectiveness of A.P. credits. One
of the determining factors in the decision to change to a
semester system was the fact that other institutions of
similar academic standards warked well under the
semester system. Why should voluntary withdrawal
from a class be different? This is a question that both the
faculty and the administration must confront if Davidson
is to continue as a quality academic institution.

&,

Naso is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C.

The Davidsonianis seeking Opinions writers.

If you are interested in voicing your view on anything

from campus politics to international issues,

sive usa call at 892-2000 ext. 148

