Opinions

The Once and Future Davidson

(This article was originally published in the 19 De-
cember 1980 Davidsonian. See also related news arti-
cle.)
By LELAND PARK

What kind of Davidson do you expect to find or
want to find .
when you come back for your twentieth reunion in the
year 2000 AD? We talk about that quite often. That is,
what kind of Davidson College do you want to find.

We who live under that ubiquitous title of the “con-
tinuing community” also ask “what kind of town do we
want to find in the year 2000 A.D.? -

SYNCO is a corporation about which the citizens
of our town have talked a lot recently, and well they
should. This corporation from Charlotte has become
the second biggest landowner — second only to David-
son College—in our area. Specifically, their holdings
begin about where the Elox plant is located on Griffith
Street and run to I-77 (both sides) and across to and in-
cluding the beautiful Lake Norman peninsula. SYNCO
has been going through the legal maze of getting per-
mission to begin the development of this area for resi-
dential purposes. They plan, as soon as the market will
allow, to transform the area into what could be another
town. There will eventually be 900 living units, con-
sisting of duplexes, apartments, patio homes (small
homes, sharing a common wall with another home,
with a very small deeded lot), and condominiums. The
pace is slow because the town can only supply the req-
uisite water and sewer services but for 20 units.

| I firmly believe there is
something worth

supporting and sustaining

in the Davidson of today

for tomorrow.

My purpose now is not to debate SYNCO. I’ve al-
ready done that in The Mecklenburg Gazette. Instead, I
want to comment on why the citizens of this little vil-
lage are concerned with the SYNCO development or
any other development around here.

I firmly believe there is something worth support-
ing and sustaining in the Davidson of today for tomor-
row. Defending the preservation of the town of David-
son “as we know it now” can be done in analytical
terms. But the true reasons lie much deeper and are
harder to capsulize in a few words. It is, rather, an am-
biance which pervades us all.

In television ads a common setting for depicting the
particular product is back-on-the-farm: takes us
through an historical area; shows us a sunrise or sunset,
and peers down into a canyon or up at the moon. There
is a “get yourself together” and “free yourself of tinsel”
feeling conveyed. It is a very real mood in this country
today. The flight from the cities, which has been stu-

died and reported so much, is a direct reflection of this
mood. And there are other examples which are just as
telling.

In the town of Davidson, as we in the “continuing
community” know, there is an emphasis on the person-
al, much as there is on our campus. Town and Gown
are really very similar. People-speak on the street. The
members of the Town Council live or work in the area
and are confronted by their electorate face-to-face on
Main Street daily or while leaning on a grocery buggy
at Cashion’s. Democracy and representative govern-
ment really exist here.

The social columnist for the local paper reports the
goings and comings of our fellow townsmen; one rare-
ly finds an unknown name listed there. Anonymity
comes only to those who purchase a new car—and that
lasts only until the word gets out. Loving concern blos-
soms at times of tragedy. We all remember when Mr.
McKissick, a local man who was a wizard at repairing
shoes and leather goods, was put out of business by a
tragic fire. Funds were raised quickly by the communi-
ty to put him back in business. The town cared.

New housing was sponsored for lower income fam-
ilies, with citizens working with theJocal bank, a local
endowment fund, the College, and the Federal govern-
ment to construct over 60 homes. In so doing, the big-
gest part of the housing blight in the town was eliminat-
ed. Those on the steering committee and those being
assisted were friends before this project began; they re-
main friends today. —

A need for day care services resulted in a genuine
outpouring of love, money, volunteer carpenters and
brick masons, etc. We now have one of the finest day
care facilities and services anywhere.

And we all remember the gentle little lady, who
was born in this town, walking slowly down Concord
Road from her family’s Victorian home, carrying a bag
of clothes and food. She would cross Main Street, go
down Bradey’s Alley, and end in the heart of the black
community. There she would minister to the needs of a
family who had sick members or who was down on its
luck. Everyone knew what she was doing. There was
no fanfare about it. She just did it.

These acts of kindness, of knowing your fellow ci-
tizen and his strengths and needs, are more numerous
than anyone other than the Almighty will ever know.

Certainly this quality is not unique to Davidson. It
exists in other places. But the fact is that it does exist in
Davidson. This community is a place where it is possi-
ble to know most of the people, who share the proud ti-
tle of “resident of Davidson.” And to paraphrase the
late Senator L.Q.C. Lamar, “to know your neighbor is
to love your neighbor.” You cannot ignore or disregard
the joys and needs of your neighbors . . . if you know
your neighbors.

I was raised in Central Florida, a beautiful part of
this country. Yet, with the Disney World explosion
and NASA importing literally thousands of newcomers
very quickly, “developments” sprang up everywhere.
Plans for “Rocket City,” a city of tomorrow, to be built
between Orlando and Cocoa Beach, were announced,
the land was cleared, streets were paved without proper
drainage, model homes were constructed, andthe “re-

THE DAVIDSONIAN/Y January.19838—t™*” 9

entry” into the world of reality came as fast as bank-
ruptcy was declared, and a 20th century ghost town
emerged.

Other developments -were financially more suc-
cessful. But they became enclaves unto themselves,
not part of the existing community. A respect for those
traditional concerns of neighbors and neighborhoods
was not forthcoming. They were identified only as
“such-and-such-development.” These same people
voted, of course, in the national elections. Most impor-
tantly, they voted in the local elections. And with the
absence of any assimilation into the community prop-
er, division came. Those who had worked long and
hard for the good of the community over the years were
turned out of office. The “new folks” were now in
charge.

Growth is going to come to
Davidson, and that is

probably good. But it must

be slow and orderly growth.

The land which SYNCO plans to develop is ideal
for residential development. It is beautiful land. Yet, it
should be remembered that the town of Davidson has
fewer than 800 registered voters. This high density
project will bring in 900 families, or potentially 2,000-
3,000 new voters. When the entire area is take into the
town limits, the voting strength of those who have
worked to make this town desirable so that SYNCO
would want to develop the land could be powerless.

This does not have to happen to Davdison. Growth
is going to come to Davidson, and that is probably
good. But it must be slow and orderly growth. Each
year we welcome new citizens to this town. The spirit
of concern for your neighbor can be fostered and can
flourish. Adequate time between building phases gives
time for residents of the town to make their way out to
the “new folks,” to get them involved in town projects,
civic clubs, church circles, Scout troops, etc. It allows
for the ever expanding circle of friends, of neighbors,
to become a reality.

Edmund Burke several hundred years ago worded
the problem, the opportunity, correctly: “To be att-
ached to the. subdivision, to love the little platoon we
belong to in society, is the first principle (the germ, as
it were) of public affection. It is the first link by which
we proceed to a love of our country, and of mankind.”

What kind of town will you come back to in the
year 2000 AD? It can be the same, only better. As Jam-
ie Wyeth so eloquently said: “Working within the
framework of a strong tradition can produce many
achievements that create their own tradition.” It is a
tradition I cherish; I hope it can be sustained.

Park is Director of the Davidson College library.

