_______ Features

Seven Hares Sacrificed During Fete

Gods appeased and allow the Davidson Monthly to publish

Nearly 113 years ago the dedicated Presbyterian
literati of 33 year old Davidson College began publish-
ing The Davidson Monthly, a small magazine devoted

to “Science, Literature, and Art.” It was elegantly

printed, and on the cover of the first issue is a delicate
engraving that shows a hand from the clouds pouring
oil into a burning Aladdin’ s lamp that rests on a book.
Though from 1897 it was The Davidson Magazine, the
periodical continued, consistently in peace times,
spasmodically in times of war or financial troubles,
until 1930. You can find all the issues in the Davidsoni-
ana room of the library.

The ordinary dull routine and unbroken monotony
of college life proved itself on the 23rd of February sus-
ceptible of some variation. A stranger to the place
would have thought that some mistake had been made
in our Hostetter’s Almanac and we were celebrating
Washington’s birth-day the 23rd instead of the 22nd.

Mother earth had been covered with snow by the
kind elements the night before, and it appeared to the
sedate students and sober book-worms a good idea to
petition the Faculty for a holiday; with the avowed pur-
pose of hunting rabbits, “and-so-forth.” (From the di-
versity of pursuits engaged in we presume that the
greater number subscribed to the latter qualification. )
Much to the surprised delight of the petitioners a for-
mal answer came to the effect that the doctors, in con-
sideration of the tempting opportunities afforded their
disciples for recreation, would suspend recitations for
the day, with the proviso, however, that the former
should be furnished something like a tithe of the spoils
of the latter. In consequence of the tickling of ears
caused by this information, the cool air was rent with
shouts, and the campus reverberated with vibratory
waves in the air set in motion by many a stentorian

lung.

But we have gotten a little ahead of ourselves in our
enthusiasm. Before we were relieved of suspense by
the considerate response above referred to, the impe-
tuosity so natural to human beings of our tender years
led about “three score and ten” to divide themselves
equally into parties, and prepare for a snow contest. A
line was accordingly drawn (with something like the
same idea with which Mason & Dixon’s was laid off)
which was to keep the contestants from a hand-to-hand
encounter. The first hard, well pressed ball was suc-
ceeded by dozens and the fight began in earnest. Words
will not suffice to tell of the whitened locks, bruised
noses and eyes, dirty faces, sprained limbs, and satu-
rated garments, which were consequent upon many a
brave, well-sustained charge. Never did knight for fair
lady in the ages of chivalry lay lance in rest with a
firmer determination to do or — run. Neither side
gained the victory, and, much to the delight of the poor
fellows who had many a time and oft been overcome by
brute force, and placed none too gently into an earthy
couch, the hitherto contending parties united in
one—and, horror! made at the lookers-on with a must
terrible yell. Well, it need not do extraordinary credit
to the dignity of the disconcerted spectators to tell bow,
Seniors and Fresh together, skedaddled to a place of re-
fuge.

To make a long matter short (to tell the truth, the
latter part of the last paragraph has not called up any
very pleasant associations in my mind) I will close by
saying that seven innocent hares were sacrificed to the
day’s amusements—and for aught I know graced the

‘ boards of our worthy professors, according to Art. I,

Agreement.

Doubtless many of our subscribers are becoming
anxious to see a specimen copy of the “Davidson

Monthly.” We fully intended, when our prospectus
was issued, to publish a January number; but our sub-
scription list was not large enough to justify our com-
mencing so arduous a task as publishing a magazine.
We hope our readers will excuse our delay, and we
promise them now that no effort shall be wanting on
our part to make our little monthly interesting and such
as a college magazine should be.

We commence in this number to give the history of
our College. The first article in the present issue is a
sketch of the first attempt of the good people of West-
ern North Carolina to establish an institution of learn-
ing in their midst, which eventually led to the founda-
tion of Davidson College. Founded in the prayers and
by the earnest labors of Presbyterians, and having
gradually risen to a rank among the best of our South-
ern Colleges her history will, no doubt, be both inter-
esting and encouraging to those who feel an interest in
her welfare.

We have just received a very entertaining letter
from our friend “Literatus,” who seems, from the tenor
of his remarks, to have assumed a most appropriate
name. We take pleasure in publishing his epistle in this
number, and we most cordially extend to the gentle-
man an invitation to write for our magazine. We will
gladly favor our readers with all such “learned dis-
courses” as he may choose to forward us.

The terms on which we propose to publish are as
follows:

Single copy Ten months, — — $2.00.
Six copies Ten months, — — $10.00.
Twelve copies Ten months, — — 18.00.

Specimen copies forwarded to any address at 25
cents each.

All orders must be accompanied with cash; other-
wise they will not be noticed.

Mehta Concert: A Review

Bach and Mehta in the concert hall

By MIGUEL ABREU

Last Monday evening at 7:30 the tension ran high
in the packed Love Auditorium. In the side aisles, ca-
meramen made the final adjustments of their equip-
ment. The crowd anticipated a unique musical perfor-
mance: Zubin Mehta, music director of the New York
Philharmonic, conducting an all-Bach program featur-
ing William workman, leading baritone of the Frank-
furt Opera Company, and Joseph Robinson, principal
oboist of the New York Philharmonic.

The opening Sinfonia from the Easter Oratorio
plunged the audience into the realm of Bach’s most lus-
cious and alleviating sacred music. The impressive Ro-
binson performed his slow solo passages impeccably
with a pure and flowing sound that markedly contribut-
ed to the enchanting force of the piece.

The program became more serious with the Cantata
No. 82 “Ich hebe genug” (“I have enough). Work-
man’s solo displayed the full array of his smooth and

expressive voice that had not fully come out during the
open-to-students dress rehearsal earlier in the day. The
cantata allowed him to reveal his outstanding technical
abilities as well as his resolution to exhibit the meaning
of the text. But he reached his peak in the intensely
moving and descriptive Cantata No. 56 “Ich will den

_ Kreuzstab gerne tragen” (“I would like to carry the

cross”), making every possible effort to portray the
deeper sufferings of man; while at the same time he en-
gages in a beautiful, energetic yet gentle dialogue with
the oboe.

The concluding chorale section featured a thirty-
member chamber chorus selected from the Oratorio
Singers of Charlotte. The surprisingly good perfor-
mance of this semi-professional ensemble should be at-
tributed primarily to Mary Nell Saunders, director of
the Oratorio Singers since Don Plott’s retirement in
December, 1980. She succeeded in preparing her sin-
gers to meet the challenge of both Cantatas Nos. 56 and
50. The overwhelming and all-encompassing sound
created by Méhta’s masterful unification of the orches-

tra and the chorus gradually lifted the audience to ethe-
real heights. In this majestic, somber, and deeply emo-
tional ending rests some of Bach’s most “spiritual” in-
spiration, which might explain the few seconds of si-
lence between the last chord and the applause.

Cantata No. 50 states some of the essential aspects
of Bach’s style and power. In the final piece he demon-
strates his mastery of the fugue form, his logical and al-
most mathematical approach to music, a combination
of solid compositional craftsmanship with instrumen-
tal and vocal virtuosity , and his peaceful and refreshing
quality. The different sections of the chorus echo one
another and subtly blend with the orchestra, bring a
sparkling and exciting character to the piece. When a
passionate Zubin Mehta conducts such a magnificent
composition, no one will be surprised to learn that he
received a standing ovation and was called back for an
“encore” of the Cantata No. 50.

The well-balanced program enabled the audience
to appreciate fully not only Bach’s captivating and ex-
alting sacred music, but the specific points forts of the
performing forces.

sn iia aii is aa oni
THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983 — 7
