2

Friday, October 14, 1983/The Davidsonian

Patterson, Taylor Deny Presidential Rumors

Two possible candidates for Davidson’s new College President denied
rumors yesterday that they are being considered for the position by the Presiden-
tial Search committee.

W. Brown Patterson, an Episcopal minister and Dean at the University of
the South in Sewanee, Tennessee, said that the rumor “must be a mistake. I’m
not a candidate and I haven’t even applied. I’m happy where I am.”

Randy Taylor ’51, minister of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte
and moderator of the newly unted Presbyterian church and Davidson alumnus,

also denied the rumor. “I have no knowledge of it,” said Taylor. “It’s a false _

rumor.”

Chairman of the Presidential Search Committee Ben T. Craig said the selec-
tion committee “was still considering approximately 200 candidates. We've
made a great deal of progress, but we're far from a short list of candidates.”

The Committee has so far notified 50 names out of the approximately 350
submitted so far, said Craig. He added that they hope to choose the new presi-
dent by the “end of the-year. But we’re not putting ourselves under any dead-
lines,” he said.

Talk on Schweitzer Scheduled Oct. 18

International lecturer Colin Stamp will present “Schweitzer: A Man For Our
Time?” October 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Davidson College
Union.

Stamp has lectured many times following his work with Schweitzer in the
early fifties. The illustrated lecture will highlight collections of unpublished
color slides taken during Stamp’s visit, impressions of Schweitzer, and the
unique jungle hospital operated during the later years of Schweitzer’s life.

Stamp, born in London, graduated from Cambridge in English Literature
and Economics. After fiver years service at sea with the Royal Navy, he joined
American Express in 1946, retiring from that company in 1977 to form his own
audio visual production house.

In the course of his two careers, he has achieved a reputation as a broadcas-
ter, writer, film producer and public speaker. He speaks four languages and has
travelled widely throughout Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Americas.

His eldest son, Robert C. Stamp, was a Dean Rusk scholar at Davidson.

Stamp’s visit is sponsored by the College Union. The lecture is open to the
public free of charge.

International Students Discuss Davidson
An informal luncheon in the 900 Room Wednesday brought five of David-
son’s international students together to relate observations, frustrations, dis-

- coveries, and anecdotes about their Davidson experience.

The panel was comprised of Marie Christine Belin from France, Shirin Han-
afi, a junior from Pakistan, Ana Tarazona from Spain, Harold Wahl from Ger-
many, and Chien-wen Yu, a junior from China. Sophomore Paulette Kurani,
whose Lebanese descent gives her personal interest in the international scene,
introduced and led the discussion.

Although the panelists seemes very pleased with Davidson College, they did
not let this tint their perception of America. “Students here seem aware of the
world situation . . . [but} I think Davidson is an exception for a university in the
United States,” Wahl observed. “In Germany it is very different . . . people
have a political responsibility.”

Hanafi shared a similar view: “Living at Davidson is very different from liv-
ing in the city. People here are not your average Americans.”

Overseas, the image of Americans is often a composite of stereotypes, old
wives’ tales, and sobering truths. “The image of Americans in Pakistan is based
on movies and books — you know, the trashy ones,” Hanafi said. “The French

GALLERY LAINZBERG

Original Art From The Animated Film

Monday and Tuesday
October 17-18
946
Morrison Room

think Americans are all rich and are very wasteful. But when I came here I say
that this wasn’t true. Sure, some of them are, but most aren’t.”

The contrasts between Davidson and the educational systems that raised
each of the international students provided a rich source for discussion, while
four of the five confessed a more intimate student-teacher relationship was pos-
sible at Davidson than in their own countries. Yu described a very different envi-
ronment in China. “The classes are very small. The relation betweent students
and teachers is much closer. You have to study hard. . . . There is no exam pres-
sure but there is pressure from the professors. There are no tests. Socially there is
very little freedom; the professors are your ‘parents’.”

“Students are more responsible in France,” Belin said. “They have to or-
ganize themselves. I had to choose my career at 15.” Tarazona painted a differ-
ent picture of Spanish students: “There is not much studying. They enjoy life.
They don’t start studying until a week before the [final] exams. I am an excep-
tion,” she added with a chuckle.

Tough Liquor Laws Spread Nationwide

(CPS)—This fall’s experiments in clamping down on student drinking —
experiments performed almost simultaneously by a huge number of schools now
— have inspired a series of tough new rules on student behavior, but an initial
check with colleges across the country indicates students are willingly adapting
to their dryer campuses.

“We didn’t have the ‘beer suckers’ that have always been around before,”
Mike Jewell, a member of the University of Kentucky’s Phi Delta Theta house,
observed gratefully. His house and all the other Kentucky fraternities agreed to
hold dry rushes for the first time ever this fall.

Bar owners near the University of Oklahoma campus arranged to accom-
odate a crowd of 5,000 students at a rally to protest the state’s new 2 l-year-old
legal drinking age law. But only 150 students showed up.

Dry rushes and parties elsewhere unfolded without controversy. “I think [the
fraternities] are finding it brings good results, and keeps the people away who
only come for the free beer anyway,” observed Jonathan Brant, head of the Na-
tional Interfraternity Conference.

It also shows “that fraternities are something besides beer busts,” he added.

Not all student groups are happy about the way schools are going about con-
trolling student drinking, however.

Black Poet Cancels Speaking Engagements

Maya Angelou, the black poet scheduled to deliver the fall Reynolds Lecture
series, has cancelled due to pressure from her work.

Angelou was scheduled to give a reading, a lecture, and possibly an open
class in writing.

The Public Lectures Committee will meet the week of October 18 to discuss
the committee’s plans. After committee head and Union Director C. Shaw
Smith retired last spring, Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the
Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann transferred the committee chairmanship to the
faculty rather than the administration who held it previously ;

English professor Cynthia Lewis, the current committee chairman, feels that
the committee is now in a position to reevaluate its situation and make beneficial
changes. Lewis hopes to look at the committee’s financial situation in the up-
coming meeting and determine how to use its resources well. Lewis emphasized
shat she wants to provide lecturers who would best represent the interests of both
the faculty and the students.

Lewis welcomes any suggestions for lecturers and said that suggestions can
be made either to department heads, student representatives on the committee
‘(Ted Garner, Suzanne Dickey, Bob Bruce), or to herself.

As,

Wilkins Barbecue and Seafood
House
Specializing in Barbecue
Beef, Pork, and Brunswick Stew

Also Seafood

1 Mile South of ABC Store
in Cornelius
892-3362
