The Davidsonian / Friday, April 22, 1983 3

ATC to Allocate Next Year’s Budget

By DAN VOORHIS

The Activities Tax Council will con-
sider requests and allocate funding for
various student organizations next week.

The ATC will receive $50 per student
from the activities tax included in tuition.
Estimating 1300 students, the Business
Office budgets $65,000 for the total Ac-
tivities Fund.

Major cost overruns from many cam-
pus organizations forced a $5 activities
tax increase for 1983-84. Last year the
ATC received $59,400 from students but
paid out $66,000 with an emergency
fund providing the remainder. Increased
need for money plus the addition of two
more groups, Amnesty International and
the Y-Student Service Corps dictated the
increase.

Hobart Park editors Scot Myers and
Suzanne Dickey will ask for $6000, the
largest increase in a request for ATC
funding and a 100 percent increase over
last year. Myers feels that the College
literary magazine needs and deserves a
drastic increase. “Hobart Park is the stu-
dents’ only creative outlet,” said Myers,
“but we're operating now pretty much at
rock bottom. We don’t even have money
for a post-office box.” The money would
be used to produce three rather than two
issues per year and improve the technical
quality of the magazine.

Quips and Cranks editor Catherine
Finegan will request $24,000 for the
1984 yearbook, an increase of $2,800
from last year’s allocation. Quips and
Cranks historically receives the greatest
ATC funding.

Wildcat Handbook editors Frances

Palmer and Lindsey Rader will request
$600 (up from $470 last year). The sharp
decrease from the 1981-82 budget (ap-
proximately $1400) resulted from using
the less expensive Davidsonian typeset-
ter and a local printer. They expect ex-
penses of about $1800 and advertising
sales of $1200.

Club sports will ask for around
$6500, according to club sports coordi-
nator Sterling Martin. Personal expendi-
tures and membership fees cover most
club sports costs, but most of the teams
need more money because inflation has
increased equipment, travel, and referee
costs.

The Davidsonian hopes to receive
$13,900, a rise of $900 from last year.
Printing and supply costs are greater than
in previous years, but the newspaper
hopes to compensate for the difference
through increased subscriptions, typeset-
ting, and advertising revenue.

The Y-Student Service Corps (Y-
SSC) is applying for ATC funding for the
first time this year. Previously, the Y-
SSC raised money from students,
townspeople, faculty, and alumni during
a fall fund-raising campaign. “Fall term
was spent fund raising rather than doing
what we're here to do,” said Y president
Doug Ammar. “We want to get down to
the business of what the Y is all about.”
The organization will request $1300.

Amnesty International also will re-
quest ATC funding for the first time, re-
questing $1500.

The Miscellany ($4,115 allotted last
year), SGA ($5,000 last year), and the
Artist Series ($7.000 last year) will ask

Joyce Hollyday Speaks
on Poverty, Nicaragua

By DAVID RESNIK

Associate Editor of Sojourners
magazine Joyce Hollyday visited the
campus this week as a Staley Foundation
Pastor-in-Residence.

Hollyday spoke at an open luncheon
at 1:00 Wednesday in the 900 Room,
conducted a Worship Service at 7:00 in
the 900 Room that evening, and had
lunch with students at the Commons yes-
terday. She will speak at the Davidson
Christian Fellowship’s large group meet-
ing in the Morrison Room tonight at
7:00.

Hollyday is a pastor at the Sojourners
Christian Community of Washington,
D.C. The Sojourners have chosen to live
in a poor, urban community in order to
see the “perspective of the poor rather
than the priveleged,” said Hollyday.

Hollyday does not advocate that “we
all more into the inner city,” but she en-
courages people to “consider different
options.” She said that students were
more politically aware in the *60s and

early "70s, but recently they have con- -

centrated more on assuring financial se-
curity. Instead of considering the views
of others, this attitude makes us live ‘“‘pri-
vate, competitive lives,” Hollyday said.

Hollyday is one of seven evangalists
who recently toured Nicaragua on a fact-

Cn

School

“case-study in U.S. foreign policy.”

The July ‘79 revolution took
Nicaragua out of U.S. influence and
ousted Samosa as “our king,” according
to Hollyday. Since then the U.S. has
tried to overthrow the revolution.

The U.S. government has tried to
sway the American people with a “mas-
sive propaganda campaign,” said Holly-
day. She said that the Nicaraguan revolu-
tion was a “natural revolution,” and the
U.S. government claimed it was started
by Communists only as “a standard tactic
to create panic and justify what we're
doing down there.”

She said that the new government in
Nicaragua has made overwhelming im-
provements since it has come into power.
There are now fewer human rights viola-
tions; the Nicaraguan illiteracy rate has
dropped from 58 to 12 percent; polio has
been erradicated; the infant mortality rate
has dropped; and land has been redistri-
buted to peasants. ;

She believes that “brutal control by
elite rulers” has been the primary cause
of many of Nicaragua’s problems.

Hollyday has spoken at other col-
leges, seminaries and pastoral retreats.
She graduated from Bates Coll :ge in
Lewiston, Maine in 1976 as a religion
major. She studied at the Yale Divinity
from 1976-77.

for the same amount they received last
year.

Requests undetermined at this point
are the BSC ($5,300 last year), Davidson
Christian Fellowship ($400 last year),

The Freshman Communiqué did not
ask for funds for 1983-84. but editor
John Marks bought several pieces of
equipment with ATC money from 1982-
83. The publication’s leftover funds
from this year will be returned to the
ATC budget.

The Women’s Center became a
Union committee in 1982 and no longer
requests ATC funding. The SGA now
controls the Residence Hall Council and
receives no ATC money. The carrier cur-
rent station WDSR was discontinued last
year.

Last Monday was the deadline for

budget requests to be submitted to Col-
lege business manager Robert Currie,
but late proposals have been coming in
all week. Each organization will present
its request and arguments to the ATC on
Wednesday and Thursday of next week.
By Friday the Council should make its
decision. The SGA Senate -nust approve
the ATC finalized budget for money to
allocated.

This year’s ATC Chairman, junior
Mark Tully, was chosen by SGA presi-
dent Hunter Monroe. Tully appointed
senators Ester Kim and Kathleen Huff.
and students Manny Waddill, Pat Sellers,
and another yet to be determined. The
SGA earlier named Currie, Union Direc-
tor C. Shaw Smith, and Dean of Students
Will Terry to semi-permanent positions.

Students Approve
Arms Statement

By ANN MEADOR

An overwhelming majority of stu-
dents voting in the Student Statement on
Nuclear Arms referendum held on Tues-
day supported the statement.

Of 550 students voting (41.5% of the
student body), 495 supported the state-
ment, a part of which expresses the con-
viction that “the use of nuclear weapons
is contrary to the fundamental morals of
humanity.”

Students for Disarmament organizer
Debby Williams was pleased with the re-
sponse. “It was a better than average
turnout for a general election,” she said.

Williams and senior Hal Martin
headed the effort to hold the SGA-run re-
ferendum. They and other students col-
lected signatures last Tuesday and
Wednesday on a petition calling for the
SGA to hold the referendum.

When asked about any negative re-
sponse to the referendum, Williams said
no one had specifically approached her
about it. “All we've gotten is positive
feedback,” she said.

The referendum’s organizers have
not called on anyone to recognize and act
on the results, said Williams, but she un-
derstands that other parties have sent re-
sults to The Charlotte Observer.

“We're not opposed to publicity
beyond the campus, but we haven't sent
results to anyone,” Williams said.

The referendum was designed to
stimulate dialogue among _ students
whether or not they have made a decision
concerning the nuclear arms race, Wil-
liams said. She hopes to organize a work-
shop next fall for students interested in
expanding their knowledge about nucle-
ar arms.

All students interested in helping
plan nuclear arms awareness activities at
the Davidson Town Day in May are wel-
come to attend an organizational meeting
5 p.m. April 28 in the Morrison Room,
Williams said. Faculty and students hope
to tell Davidson townspeople about the
Statements on Nuclear Arms and possi-
bly begin work on a Davidson town re-
ferendum on the nuclear arms issue.

