2 Friday, September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

———_ NEWS SUMMARY——

Chemistry Department Awarded Grant

The Davidson College chemistry department has been awarded a $2,000
1983 Pittsburgh Conference National College Grant.

Davidson was one of six institutions chosen to receive one of the grants,
selected from a field of 197 applicants throughout the country. The other five in-
stitutions were DePaul University, Westmont College, Wheaton College,
Roanoke College and Salem College. Felix A. Carroll, associate professor of
chemistry and John MacKay, assistant professor of chemistry, wrote and sub-
mitted the winning grant request. }

- _ The grant will go toward the purchase of a High Performance Liquid

Chromatograph (HPLC) system for Davidson’s chemistry department. The
HPLC system is a powerful tool used to separate and identify components in
mixtures of chemicals. The instrument is also used in clinical laboratories and in
the environmental monitoring of other forms of chemicals.

Davidson Enforces Draft Aid Law

Davidson's office of Financial Aid now requires that students receiving fed-
eral student aid sign and return a “Statement of Educational Purpose / Registra-
tion Compliance.”

The form requires Federal aid students that are eligible for the draft to dem-
onstrate that they have registered for the draft.

Section 1113 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act for 1983.
Publ. 97-252, states that any student required to register with the selective ser-
vice and fails to do so is ineligible for student financial aid.

The affected programs include the Pell Grant, the Supplemental Educational
Opportunity Grant, College Work Study, the National Direct Student Loan, the
Guaranteed Student Loan, and the State Student Incentive Grant Programs.

Some judges have questioned the constitutionality of the Draft Aid Laws.
citing discrimination on the basis of income, among other problems.

Colleges such as Earlham and Haverford are attempting to circumvent the
law by guaranteeing student aid in the face of lost federal dollars.

Saxophone And Piano Recital Scheduled
, ‘Saxophonist Stephen Pollock and pianist John Coffey will perform a joint re-
cital at 8:15 p.m. September 19 in Hodson Hall.

The recital, part of the Davidson College Chamber Music Series, will in-
clude works by Pietro Boni, Walter Hartley, Philipp Telemann, Frederic Cho-
pin, Haydn Millars, J.B. Senaille, Claude Debussy, William Schmidt, and
Rudy Wiedoeft. Also on the program will be David Ott's “Suite of the Old North
State,” written specially for Stephen Pollock.

There will be no admission charge for the concert, which is sponsored jointly
by the Davidson College Union Co-Curricular Council and the department of
music.

\
Roberts Brothers Circus Comes To Davidson

The Roberts Bros. Three-Ring Circus, one of the last of the old-time circuses
still on tour and performing under canvas, ‘will present two performances Fri-
day, September 23 at 6 p.m. and again at 8 p.m.

Roberts Bros. Circus features a host of highly talented acrobats, jugglers,
gymnasts, trapeze artists, and clowns. The show bill includes Pasha, one of the
most intelligent elephants in show business, three rings of ponies, two acts of
educated dogs, and other traditional circus fare.

The Davidson visit is sponsored by the College Union. Tickets may be pur-
chased in advance at the box office in the College Union, Monday through Fri-
day from 2-5 p.m. Advance ticket prices are $3.50 for adults and $2.50 for chil-
dren under the age of 12. Ticket prices at the door will be $4.50 and $3,50.

Tuition Hits Records, Keeps Heating As Inflation Cools

(CPS) All colleges are more expensive this year, as campus inflation re-
mains frighteningly high despite the taming of inflation elsewhere in the
economy.

For example, while the nation’s inflation rate over the last year has varied
from 2.6 percent to 4.8 percent (depending on which federal agency is count-
ing), four-year public college costs have soared 12 percent (to an average
$4,721), the College Scholarship Service (CSS) says.

Four-year college costs are up 11 percent, to an average $8,440.

Community and junior college students will spend an average $3,400 in
1983-84, and eight percent increase.

The increases follow even larger hikes last year. In all, 1982-83 college costs
were 20 percent higher on public campuses and 13 percent higher on private
campuses than 1981-82 costs, the CSS reported last year.

At the same time, the Consumer Price Index rose by 7.7 percent. The 1983 in-
flation rate is 3.2 percent so far, according to U.S. Department of Labor statis-
tics released last week.

Applicant Narrowing Rumors Denied; Search Continues

Ben T. Craig, chairman of the Trustee Presidential Search Committee, re-
cently denied a rumor that the group of 250-300 applicants had been narrowed to
15. He maintained that no one was eliminated except an initial 50-80 perspec-
tives who had no previous association with the College.

Craig added that the Faculty, Trustee, and Student Search Committees were
still receiving applications.

While no deadline has been set, Craig hopes to submit recommendations to
the full Board of Trustees soon and said it was “possible to do this year.”

Belk Gives $1,000,000 Toward Sports Center

Davidson College has received a “lead-off gift” of $1 million from the Belk
Foundation toward the planned athletic center, according to Executive Director
of Resource Development Julius Melton. An unnamed individual has pledged
$500,000 for an indoor tennis facility.

The complex is part of the 1987 Program, a fundraising campaign with a
goal of $35 million to be reached by the College’s 150th anniversary in 1987.

SGA Election Sign-Ups Scheduled

The sign-ups for the fall SGA senate election will be in Dean Terry’s office
until Tuesday, September 20. Elections will follow a week of campaigning on
Tuesday, September 27.

Each dormitory will elect one senator, except for Belk, which sends two
freshmen and one upperclass senators. Off-campus students elect three senators
and the Freshman class sends its representatives.

SGA President, Vice-president, and other class senators will be elected in
the spring.

Korean Crash Victim McDonald Remembered

Davidson residents and professors mourned the death of Georgia Represen-
tative and Chairman of the John Birch Society Lawrence McDonald last week.

McDonald attended Davidson College as a pre-med student in the early fif-
ties. A few weeks ago he was aboard a South Korean jet that was reportedly shot
down by a Soviet fighter plane.

College Archivist Chalmers G. Davidson remembered McDonald as “an un-
usually able student and a young man with charming Georgia manners.”

“The last time I saw him,” said Dr. Davidson, “was in April of 1982 in
Washington when Congressman John Napier invited my family to lunch at the
House of Representatives Restaurant and invited the Davidson alumni in Con-
gress to dine with us.”

“Larry made a special effort to be there which we very much appreciated.”

Congressman McDonald was traveling to Seoul for the 30th anniversary of
the mutual defense pact between South Korea and the United States.

‘It was reported that he was making the trip at the invitation of U.S. Senator
Jesse Helms of North Carolina who followed him on a later plane.

McDonald was born April 1, 1935 and attended a private school in Rome,
Georgia before coming to Davidson in 1951. After majoring in pre-med here he
was accepted in medical school at Emory University in Atlanta. He later spent
four years as a Navy flight surgeon after which he became interested in politics.

He joined the John Birch Society in the early sixties. He was its national
chairman at the time of the flight disaster.

The Davideonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
: Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,

on request. Second class postage paia at Vaviason, North Carolina 28036.
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Ann Meador, Editor

David Resnik, Executive Editor
Jeffrey Mann; Associate Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Dan Voorhis, News Editor

Kelly Sundberg, Features Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

rates available i.

_ News Staff: Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Jackie Daugherty, Susan Fore, Roxanna Guil-

ford, David McGee, Stephen Manks, Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, John Ruppent-
hal, Greg Smouse,.Sarah Smith, Aaron Taylor, David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted

Features Staff: Brian Butler, John Eglin, Joe Jaworski, Matt Morris, Nancy Rossclot
Sports Staff: Boyd Blackburn, Kara Gilmore, Pam Harmann, Rand Hartsell , Scott Huie,
Photography Staff: Anderson Scott, Randy Stroud, Bruce Van Stein

Staff Artists: Ann Hunter, Alva Moore, Wilson Lowrey

Circulation Staff: David McCurry, William White

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch

Production Staff: David Horan, Christine Jackson

