4 Friday, April 8, 1983/The Davidsonian

Age Cripples Language Lab.

BY PAULETTE KURANI
Malfunctioning rewind systems, bro-

ken buttons, and distorted sound recep-_

tion — all are problems plaguing David-
son’s 25-year-old language laboratory.

Installed in 1958 and updated in
1975, the James Wilkinson Jervey III
Language Laboratory has faced greatly
increased use over the past four years
which has sped the deterioration of the
system.

“In terms ot equipment, the lab is not
that old,” said Director of Audio Visual
Services Ruth Pittard. “The biggest
problem with the machines is the stu-
dents’ carelessness. Considering the
amount of use and regular wear and tear,
occasional machine breakdowns are to
be expected.”

On some days as many as 150 stu-
dents use the language lab’s 40 booths to
complete assignments. The equipment in

Class of 87 Announced

BY KIRK KIRKPATRICK

Davidson accepted 595 students for
enroilment in the class of 1987 last Fri-
day. The 1,801 applicants from which
the class was chosen represents a 20 per-
cent increase in applicants over last year.

Fifty-eight percent of those accepted
will enroll in September, projected Dean
of Admissions and Financial Aid John V.
Griffith. The class of 1987, which should
be nearly 40 percent female, is expected
to have 330-340 members, approxi-
mately the size of the current Freshman
class.

Griffith said that he is pleased with

the quality of those selected. One out of
six accepted students (107 total) were
class valedictorians, and the mean SAT
score rose to 1230. SAT mean scores
have risen from | 180 to 1230 in the past 4
years.
In 1980 Davidson had roughly 1,560
applicants; in 1981, 1,700; in 1982,
1,500; and this year 1,801. “The applic-
ant pool seems to expand and contract, so
Davidson becomes more widely known
on one hand and more selective on the
other.” Griffith said that “it is clear that
Davidson will attract more applicants.”

The Admissions Office attributes the
20 percent increase in applicants to sev-
eral factors. First is the increasing na-
tional awareness of Davidson’s “impres-
sive academic credentials.” Among the
prominent and more tangible factors are
the dining service and the new computer
system. Griffith said, “The Commons is
a major plus, especially for visitors and

Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid John V. Griffith

during events like SGA weekend.” Easy
access to the Prime 750 has already: had
an impact and will become an increas-
ingly important factor. “The terminal-

student ratio may someday carry as much

importance as that of faculty to student,”
he said. Griffith also points to the impor-
tance of the Sloan Grant in integrating
science and technology in the liberal arts
program.

Griffith said the impending change
from the trimester to the semester system
has no impact on admissions. He claims
that from the perspective of the prospec-
tive student, the advantages and disad-
vantages of both systems balance each
other.

When asked about. the tuition in-
crease for 1983-84, Griffith feels that
Davidson remains a bargain when com-
pared to the costs of other schools.

PCSC Proposal

. (Continued from page !)

”

Although Gould said he would ide-
ally like a student referendum on the
SGA recommendation, he said that some

eat.

that the student body as a whole might
not be educated well enough on the
nuances of any propopsal to cast an in-
formed vote. Since the SGA is the stu-
dent body's elected representative body,
Gould pointed out, it “theoretically
should beable to vote wisely and come
up with the best reommendation.”

The main concern of the SGA, said
President Hunter Monroe, is to“come up
with a system that-best * represents what
the students want” -

In addition, he said, the lines reading
“the court fraternities should be allowed
to openly confront or challenge an unen-

- couraged shotgunner” might be altered to
members of the SGA had voiced concern.

something similar to, ‘a freshman has
the right to approach the fraternity rush
chairman and ask his status, and to be an-
swered honestly.”

After the PCSC made its report at the
SGA meeting Tuesday night, Gould said
that as many senators as possible would
be atthe April 18 open forum to hear dis-
cussion on all proposals. Then on April
19 the SGA will vote on the proposals
and find one it feels will be most repre-
seritative of the stuldit body.

.

g
3
£
{a
3
Jit

the lab is built to be sturdy, according to
Pittard, but with an average of eight stu-
dents stopping and starting each machine
ten to twenty times an hour, it is not sur-
prising that the tape players continually
wear out. -

“If I consistently get my usual
machine everything’s all right. But
otherwise, I run into problems,” said
Freshman Janice Evans.

Problems with the tape players in-
clude malfunctioning rewind systems,
buttons falling off, and destorted sound
reception. German professor Esther
Wruck said that the problem is generally
known — the equipment is simply get-
ting old.

Former Chairman of the Language
Lab Committeé Hallam Walker agrees
that constant maintenance is a problem.
“Although the lab, as it is set up now,
accommodates the students in terms of
equipment, it will have to be renewed
within a few years,” he said.

Erik Christensen is partly responsible
for upholding the machines. But, accord-
ing to French professor Lauren Yoder,
“Erik doesn’t have time to do all the
work. If we had a full-time person who
maintained the equipment regularly,
perhaps it wouldn’t have to be renewed
as frequently.”

Another problem plaguing the stu-
dents is the quality and sound of the
tapes.

“Students are used to top-notch qual-
ity from their own sets,” said current
Language Lab Committee Chairman
Lois A. Kemp, “and they expect it here,
too.”

Sometimes extensive use results in
Static-filled and —hard-to-understand
tapes. The deterioration results also from

J

the 1974 conversion from reel-to-reel to
cassette, when some recordings had to be

transferred to the‘new cassettes.

This term professors are trying to lis-
ten to old tapes in order to eliminate and
replace the bad ones.

The quality of some tapes has to do
with manufacturing, according to Pit-
tard.

“Some [tapes] have telephone con-
versations in the background. This
shows that they were carelessly recorded
at the studids,” she explained.

As for as the language lab itself, it’s
in a “holding period” where renewal is
concerned, according to Vice-president
for Academic Affairs and Dean of the
Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann.

“Now is not the time for upgrading
old-fashioned technology,” he-said. “I
suspect that in five years language labs °
will be computerized, so we're reluctant
to make any major changes until we see
the outcome of the future.”

This concept of language teaching at
Davidson was first introduced by
Spanish Professor Pedro Trakas in 1955
when he suggested that the College set up
a lab that would help students in their de-
velopment of foreign languages. A year
later, a committee was formed consisting
of professors Trakas, Howard French,
and George B. Watts (chairman).

The plans for the language lab, how-
ever, were not realized until 1958, after a

donation from Dr. and Mrs. James Wil-

kinson Jervey Jr. in memory of their son

and Davidson alumnus, the late J. W.
Jervey III. The lab dedication was held
on February 21 of that year during a for-
mal ceremony. Presidents, professors,
and administrators from neighboring
schools and colleges attended the event.

Honor Code Expanded
to Cover Computers

BY DUNCAN FRASER

The Student Conduct Council voted
last week to amend the Honor Code and
Code of Responsibility to cover the Col-
lege computers. The Council must take a
second vote on the amendment not less
than 14 days after the initial vote accord-
ing to the Code of Disciplinary Proce-
dure.

The amendment calls for two addi-
tions to the Honor Code and one to the
Code of Responsibility. The first addi-
tion classifies any attempt to enter the ad-
ministrative computer with authorization
an Honor Code violation.

The second addition broadens the
descriptiopn of plagiarism to cover the
“unattributed use of a computer al-

gorithm (i.e., a set of steps designed to |

achieve a desired end).”

The third amendment is in the Code
of Responsibility and says in part that
will be viewed in the same manner as

L

“damage to information on the computer
damage to property.” In addition, the ad-
mendment emphasizes the assumption of
Privacy on the computer and prohibits
any “unauthorized review, transfer, or
alteration of information on the com-
puter.”

The proposed changes were written

~ last month by Mathematics professor L.

R. King, German professor Hansford
Epes, and junior Hunter Monroe.

Monroe believes that the changes
will “create a more respectful attitude to-
ward other users on the computer.” Al-
though violations of the Honor Code and
Code of Responsibility have involved the
computer in the past, the word computer
is never mentioned in either document.

The reason for making the change
now, according to Monroe, is that the
“computer has settled in more to the Col-
Jege,” and this afnendment merely “ad-
justs the computer to the College.”
