THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXIIl, Number 7

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 28, 1983

Peggy Pierotti

An oak tree fell last Wednesday, demolishing three cars. See story on page 2.

Outside Study, Scholarships, Questioned

Controversy Surrounds Plott Scholarship

By DAVID McGEE

Controversy surrounds the way pro-
ceeds will be used from the Donald Plott
Memorial Festival Concert-held last Jan-
uary.

“A fundamental disagreement of
priorities and basic premises” plagues
the committee appointed to set the
groundwork for the scholarship pro-
gram, according to committee member
and Concert oboist Joseph Robinson ’62.
The committee stands divided over sev-
eral issues, primarily whether the schol-
arship will retain an emphasis on study
outside Davidson, which Robinson feels
was why the festival was held.

The committee, appointed by Presi-
dent Emeritus Samuel Spencer, is com-

posed of Dean of Admissions John Grif-
fith, Music department chairman Wilmer
Welsh, and Robinson.

“They have modified their stance
some,” Robinson said about school offi-
cials involved with the program. He feels
the original purpose of the scholarship
has been compromised: to provide the re-
cipients with a liberal arts education from
Davidson and musical training from the
best music schools and teachers in the
world.

“There is no question what we
[Robinson and Workman] succeeded be-
cause of our study away from Davidson.
The real strength of the school lies in its
liberal arts curriculum, but it doesn’t pre-
tend to provide the caliber of profes-

Football Players:

A Subculture Within The

By DAVID RESNIK

Community?

sional training at, say, Eastman or Jul-
liard,”” Robinson said.

Robinson also was not pleased that
the first Plott scholarship was awarded to
a student already at Davidson. “The
money was meant to recruit students,” he
said. Junior Laura McDonald received
the first scholarship this summer.

Welsh said that since it was too late
last summer to recruit applicants for the
program for the upcoming year, he and
others felt that they “had to find a student
to get the program going or it would lose
support.”

Because no other college in the coun-
try has a scholarship program like the one
Davidson is building, Robinson feels

continued on page 6

CCRL
Endorses

Chapel Hour

By LISA THOMAS

The traditional chapel hour, aban-
doned 14 years ago, may return to David-
son next fall in a new form.

The Council on Campus and Religi-
ous Life (CCRL) has endorsed and urged
the monthly or bi-monthly voluntary
campus-wide gathering which would be
integrated into the semester system
schedule.

The College President will have to
approve the suggestion for it to go into
effect.

The new chapel hour bears little re-
semblance to the mandatory one that
Davidson used for 132 years. Under the
idea currently being considered, one
hour on Tuesday or Thursday would be
set aside twice each month. No College
organizations would be allowed to
schedule conflicting events such as phys-
ical education classes or committee
meetings.

CCRL member and College Chaplain
Charlie Summers said it is important for
the committee to “beat the rush and stake
their claim now” before the semester
scheduling is finalized.

The new format would be much more
relaxed than the chapel hour of the past,
with optional student attendance and en-
couraged participation by the faculty and
community as well.

Programming would be flexible but
would include speakers on religious or
ethical issues, such as world peace or
world hunger, with special focus pro-
grams during holiday seasons such as
Christmas and Thanksgiving. According

continued on page 6

Inside This Week

As tomorrow's big homecoming game aginst Fur-
man approaches, Davidson’s football players and fans
are preparing for another big loss.

The Wildcats (1-6-0) have almost completed their
first season in the Southern Conference. The Palladins

(5-1-1) are aiming for their fourth con-
NEWS secutive Southern Conference title. Ac-
cording to head coach Ed Farrell, the
ANALYSIS football team needs “an effort like we had
against Boston University several years

ago to be competitive.”

Football attendance and fan enthusiasm have both
been low; some regard the games as no more than a good
excuse for a cocktail party.

Why is there so little support for the team? Is it only
because the team is losing? Or could it be that the team
has become separated trom the rest of the campus like a
subculture within the community?

Farrell admitted that being integrated into school
will help the team gain fan support, but he still maintains
‘‘support comes from success.”

Soccer players, he noted, have always been well in-
corporated into campus life, but attendance at soccer
games was low until they started winning.

The Football Life

Most students are not aware of how much commit-
ment it takes to play football. Players practice four to
five hours a day during the season. They come to school
before anyone else and practice in the September heat.
They lift weights in the winter, and they practice in the
spring. They have put up with numerous injuries and
psychological and physical exhaustion. And after they
finish with football, they must study just like any other
student.

The players learn to stick together, in part, because
they all must go through these adversities. As Junior

continued on page 6

Fore: Newn golf course will be dedicated this
weekend. Page 3

Fall Production: A review of You Can't Take It
With You. Page 7

Superhero: Davidson's Scot Myers is an artist for
Marvel Comics,

Soviet Expansionism: Opinion explores the ad-
vance of world Communism. Page 13

Sex Survey

The rationale behind a serious survey. Editorial column.
Page 14

