Southern
Conference
Sets
Requirements

By MIKE TANTILLO ’85

A proposed amendment to the

Southern Conference Constitution
would force Davidson to “schedule
more Southern Conference games or
drop out of the S.C.,” according to At-
hletic Director and football coach Ed
Farrell.
"The amendment requires all confer-
ence schools to compete for the S.C.
football championship. Davidson does
not compete for the title because it does
not play enough conference games.

According to Farrell, dropping out
of the S.C. would be “devastating to
basketball” because the winner of the
S.C. basketball tournament “automati-
cally receives a bid to the NCAA tour-
nament.” If Davidson goes independ-
ent, says Farrell, “we would have a
small chance of qualifying for the tour-
nament,” adding that an “NCAA bid”
would give the college “a lot of impor-
tant exposure.”

Farrell admits that scheduling more
S.C. football opponents would mean
“trading some strong teams on the sche-
dule for some teams a little bit
stronger.”

But he also noted that “‘a school like
Colgate University,” which does not
give football scholarships and has aca-
demic standards comparable to David-
son’s qualified for the Division IAA
football playoffs. He concluded that
“playing football in the Southern Con-
ference does not mean we will not be
competitive.”

Farrell recommends that “our foot-
ball team fulfill the requirements in
order to stay in the Southern Confer-
ence.” Davidson could stay in the S.C.
without giving more scholarships, be-
cause the conference only sets scholar-
ship maximums, no minimums.

A proposed piece of legislation at
the NCAA level would set attendence
requirements for a football team to com-
pete at the IAA level and a basketball
team to compete at the Division I level.
Football games must draw 4700 home
attendance per game or basketball must
draw 3500 home attendance per game in
order for a school to compete at the Div-
ision I level.

If, however, a school is part of an at-
hletic conference, only a majority of the
schools in the conference must meet the
attendance requirements to allow every
college in the conference to stay in Div-

ision I. If this legislation passes, and
Davidson were to drop out of the South-
ern Conference, attendance would not
allow either football or basketball to
compete in Division I of the NCAA.

The Southern Conference affiliation
also helps sports such as golf, tennis and
wrestling. In these sports, qualification
for NCAA tournments are on an indi-
vidual basis. For example, the best se-
cond seed in S.C. tennis may go on toa
national tournment.

Faculty
Committees
to Study
Semesters

By RICK AVERY ’86

The Educational Policies Commit-
tee (EPC) and the Executive Committee
of the Faculty will soon begin delibera-
tions on the projected switch back to a
semester system.

The EPC will meet next Monday at
4 p.m. to plan a daily schedule for a se-
mester system.

A sub-committee appointed by Col-
lege President Samuel Spencer will
meet sometime in the next two months
to work on adapting a revised calendar,
according to E.C. secretary David Kay-
lor.

The sub-committee consists of: Bi-
ology professor Dr. Donald Kimmel,
English professor Dr. Gill Holland, and
Vice-president for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zim-

mermann.

The semester system proposal was
made by the Semester Planning Com-
mittee. The faculty approved a revised
proposal on 19 October, 60-33. Also
approved was a provision requiring that
the proposal not be implemented before
the 1984-85 school year.

A student referendum held 12 Oc-
tober, however, showed that 77.2 per-
cent of those students voting were
against changing to the semester sys-
tem. The turnout was one of the largest
ever, according to SGA Vice-president
Boe Young, with a total of 962 voters.

The version of the semester propos-
al now being viewed by the EPC and the
EC is an amended version of the Semes-
ter Planning Committee’s original prop-
osal. This amended version keeps the
graduation requirement of thirty-six
courses, a “normal” teaching load of six
courses per year, and six credits for the
Humanities program.

_News Shorts

PIRG Fights
Dwindling
Membership

By JIM CROWE’83

The Davidson chapter of the Public
Interest Research Group (PIRG) con-
tinues to sponsor awareness programs
despite dwindling membership, accord-
ing to PIRG Chapter President Jenny
Barnhardt.

Barnhardt, a junior from Mount
Airy, North Carolina is this year’s only
remaining active member of the group
from last year.

PIRG began over a decade ago as a
national student organization founded
by Ralph Nader. The national group
seeks to bring public awareness and re-
search efforts to social, environmental,
and consumer issues.

In recent years the Davidson chapter
has concentrated almost exclusively on
environmental issues because those in
charge of the chapter have shown little
interést in consumer issues, Barnhardt
noted. “PIRG here is a very small
group, and we basically do issues peo-
ple in the group are interested in,” she
said. .

Earlier this year, the group conduct-
ed an awareness program concerning
the ocean dumping of nuclear wastes.
Barnhardt said the members researched
the topic, then organized a letter-writing
session to key U.S. senators in support
of an environmental bill prohibiting
ocean dumpings. Action was taken on
the bill during the recent lame-duck ses-
sion of Congress when Cong. Anderson
of California slipped it by as an amend-
ment to the Gas Tax Bill. The amend-
ment created a two-year moratorium on
ocean dumping, and requires that both
Houses approve all ocean sites after that
period.

Barnhardt said that the Davidson
PIRG chapter also sent testimony to a
public hearing about the Navy’s propos-
al to dump decommissioned nuclear
submarines in sites off the North Caroli-
na and California coasts.

The Davidson chapter has sched-
uled several on-campus programs for
the coming months. The group will
sponsor the film Lovins on the Soft
Path: An Energy Future with a Future,
at 7 p.m. on January 25. The film by
Salvatore Raciti, shown on PBS’s “No-
va,” has won numerous awards from the
Audobon Society, World’s Fair, and
other groups for its treatment of the top-
ic of alternate energy sources.

John Hinck, the United States coor-
dinator for the international environ-

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983

From the Davidsonian Archives

Jennie Barnhardt ’ 84

ment group Greenpeace, will speak
March 10 at 7 p.m. on activism in envir-

~onmental issues. The free program in

the Morrison Room will also include the
showing of a Greenpeace video tape on
ocean dumping. ,

The Davidson PIRG chapter re-
ceives funds from a voluntary contribu-
tion system. Students or their parents
can include an optional $4.00 contribu-
tion on their tuition payment forms.
Barnhardt said PIRG received about
$700 this year. Alumni and other inter-
ested people do sometimes send in con-
tributions to the chapter also, she said.

The money goes towards film rent-
als, speakers’ expenses, administrative
costs, and partial dues to the national or-
ganization. These dues go to support
professional staff workers in the Dur-
ham and Greensboro offices of the NC
PIRG. THe staff provides background
research, organizational newsletters,
and occasional speakers to the Davidson
chapter. Barnhardt noted, “Since we
don’t have enough funding to pay full
dues, we don’t expect them [NC PIRG]
to plan activities for us like they do at
some other chapters.”

Other North Carolina schools with
PIRG chapters include Mars Hill, UNC-
Greensboro, UNC-Chapel Hill, Duke,
Elon, and Guilford

DCF Collects
Clothes

By TIM McGAUGHEY ’85

Davidson Christian Fellowship con-
ducted its annual clothes drive this
week. Three DCF small groups spon-
sored the drive. Small group leaders
Jean Webb, Meg Surratt, Kathy Gratto,
Craig Detweiler, and Dick Lee directed
the 30 members of their groups in this
effort. Participants put boxes in all eat-
ing houses, dorms, and the Commons to
hold all donated clothes.

_ Jean Webb said that the clothes
drive is part of the Outreach Program of
the fellowship. The collected articles
will be taken to the Crisis Assistance
Ministry in Charlotte. From there the
clothes will be distributed to needy citi-
zens in Mecklenburg County.

3
