2

Friday, December 7. 1983/The Davidsonian

SGA Phonathon Surpasses Last Year’s Total

After five nights, the SGA phonathon has received pledges of $71,018 from
the classes of 1923 to 1983 in contributions to Davidson’s “Living Endow-
ment.” Using seven fewer phones than last year, the project is $17,548 ahead of
last year’s Phonathon. Project coordinator Lindsey Rader attributed its increase
to the improved economy and better organization. The organisers hope to in-
crease its percentage of alumni contributing from last year’s 32 percent to 40
percent.

The phonathon will continue through Friday night.

Students’ Stolen Property Recovered

Davidson police have recovered property, belonging to Davidson students,
which was stolen earlier this year. The total value of the property is estimated at
$1,683. Davidson officers found most of the property at the residence of Vincent
Huntley of Davidson. Huntley and three others, Andrew Jackson, Michael
Black and Reggie Norris all of Davidson, were arrested on charges of possession
of stolen goods. “

Among the property recovered was: a 10-speed bike belonging to sopho-
more Duncan Fraser, a Technics receiver and tape deck owned by Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity, a Texas Instruments calculator belonging to Carolyn Leavitt,
stereo equipment owned by Kevin Kurk and by Warner Hall eating house, stereo
speakers owned by Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, and items belonging to the
Covington Golf Facility at Davidson.

In a separate incident, the Covington Golf Facility was robbed Monday night
of lawn equipment valued at $497.

Davidson police have not been able to identify the owners of some of the re-
covered possessions, and they encourage students who have had property stolen
to contact the Davidson police.

Blake Attends U.S. Affairs Conference

Junior Chris Blake attended the 35th annual Student Conference on United
States Affairs held at the U.S. Military Academy November 16-19.

“The Politics of U.S. Foreign Policy” was this year’s conference theme. It
opened with a keynote address from Lawrence Eagleburger, the Under Secret-
ary of State for Political Affairs.

The conference consisted of roundtables made of student delegates and ex-
perts from throughout the United States who dealt with a variety of policy issues.
Blake participated on a roundtable discussion of national priorities and defense
spending.

ROTC Collects Blood for Red Cross

The Davidson ROTC department sponsored a blood drive Monday with the
Red Cross, collecting 298 pints, two short of their goal of 300. Those who
wanted to give but could not totalled 340. Third Center Belk won a dinner at
King of Pizza for having the highest percentage participating among eating
houses, fraternities, and freshmen halls. Last year the ROTC department col-
lected 289 pints.

Fewer Apply For Early Decision; Choices Made

The Davidson College Admissions Committee accepted 63 of 120 applic-
ants December | under the college’s early decision plan. This figure is down
from last year’s 146 applicants for early decision of which the Admissions Com-
mittee admitted 83. Admissions director John Griffith does not believe this
year’s decrease is significant.

NEWS SUMMARY-

First, last year’s total applications were up 20 percent over the year before.
As a result, a decrease in early decision applicants is understandable, he said.
“We usually aim for a group of 75 to 80, but this year’s early decision admis-
sions follow the low spectrum of previous years,” Griffith said.

Griffith is impressed with the regional diversity of the early decision group,
which represents 20 different states. “That’s the most diverse group ever,” he
said. To make up a freshman class of 340 to 360 for next year, Griffith said more
applicants will be admitted under regular decision, but this will not require
loosening of the college’s admissions selectivity. Griffith said the committee
will also complete adjustments for last year’s unusually large senior class in their
admission decisions.

According to Griffith, Davidson has not experienced the decline in admis-
sions applications other colleges have. The national average last year was a 10
percent decrease. The average for colleges in the northeast was 40 percent. (Fig-
ures are from the National Center for Higher Management Systems.) The
number of applications for regular decision stands at | ,000 and Griffith expects
it to increase to between | ,700 and 2,000 by the February | deadline.

Davidson Ranked Ninth In Magazine Survey

Davidson College was ranked ninth among the nation’s liberal arts colleges
in a survey published in the Nov. 28 issue of U.S. News and World Report.

Davidson was the only Southern institution to make the top ten of liberal arts
colleges with national reputations. The survey was based on a poll of 1,308 pres-
idents of four-year colleges who were asked to name the nation’s highest-quality
undergraduate schools. More than SO percent replied.

Davidson tied for ninth place with Haverford College (Pa.), Pomona Col-
lege (Cal.) and Reed College (Ore.), having been mentioned by 13.4 percent of
the respondents.

The other top ten national liberal arts colleges, in descending rank order, are
Amherst College (Mass.), Swarthmore (Pa.), and Williams (Mass.) colleges
(tie), Carleton College (Minn.) Oberlin College (Ohio), Wellesley College
(Mass.), Wesleyan University (Conn.) and Bryn Mawr College (Pa.).

A total of 121 national liberal arts colleges were identified by the survey.
Each has a national reputation and draws enrollment from most of the 5O states.
They have traditionally been the most selective of the nation’s smaller schools.

The survey also included lists of national universities, regional liberal arts
college, comprehensive universities, and small comprehensive universities.

Davidson To Present Christmas Vespers Program

Davidson College will usher in the Christmas season with its traditional
Christmas Vespers program at 7:15 p.m. December | | at Davidson College Pre-
sbyterian Church.

Davidson College chaplain, Charlie Summers, will preside at the service,
which will feature participation by a number of Davidson’s musical organiza-
tions along with readings and lessons for the Christmas season.

Among those taking part will be the college’s Male Chorus, Women’s
Chorus, and Concert Choir, all under the direction of W. Vladimir Morosan;
College Organist Wilmer Hayden Welsh; the Brass Ensemble, directed by Wil-
liam Lawing; and the Flute Ensemble, led by Shirley Jackson.

The choral music will include anthems by Schutz and William Albright, and
Christmas music arranged by Vaughan Williams, Kirke Mechem, and others.

Hymns to be sung include “Come, Thou Long-expected Jesus,” “Gentle
Mary Laid Her Child,” “Hark, the Herald Angels Sing,” and “Joy to the World.”

CATHY’S
BOOK SWAP
Main St. & Hwy. 115
Comelius, N. C.

Swap and Sell
Novels
Mystery
Science Fiction
Historical Romance

Silhouette
Ecstasy
Romance
Western

KING OF PIZZA

663-3030
225 S. Broad St.

moose FAMILY NIGHT
Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

