Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

Seniors Begin Class Gift Fund

The Class of 1983 has an ambitious goal: to raise $100,000 in pledges
over the next month to endow a Class of 1983 Scholarship Fund. The schol-
arship gift will be announced at graduation and formally presented to the
College on its 150th anniversary in 1987.

If successful, this scholarhsip fund will mark the largest gift ever given
to Davidson by a graduating class. Campaign Treasurer Alan Fields explains

. that although the goal is ambitious, the $100,000 figure i is based on realistic

projections of income and giving.

The motto for the campaign is “Insuring a Future.” To watch the class’s
progress, keep an eye on the Class of 1983 Scholarship Fund “thermometer”
in Chambers.

Professors’ Sons Win Moreheads

John Gill Holland Jr., son of English professor Gill Holland, and
Lunsford R. King Jr. , son of Mathematics professor Lunsford King, have re-
ceived Morehead Scholarships to the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

The Morehead Award, given in recognition of outstanding high school
achievement and personal potential, funds the recipient’s entire under-
graduate education at UNC-CH. |

Holland and King are two of 73 high school seniors awarded 1983
Morehead scholarships, worth approximately $25,000 each.

Davidson Receives Duke Endowment

The trustees of The Duke Endowment have awarded a grant of $462,810
to Davidson College. _

The grant is only part of the Duke Endowment’s continuing financial
support of Davidson College, which last year totalled over $1,000,000.

More than half of the grant — $250,000 — will be used toward keeping
faculty salaries competitive with those of other institutions.

Other projects which the Duke Endowment will support include exten-
sion of the International Studies program at Davidosn; expansion of admis-
sions office publications and alumni admissions programs; library, com-
puter center, and psychology laboratory purchases; and improvement of
energy efficiency in College buildings.

The Duke Endowment grant also included a $10,000 gift to the Davidson
1987 Program.

1987 Program Passes $30 Million Mark
_ Davidson College has raised over $30 million in gifts and pledges to the
Davidson 1987 Program, its current capital Biving campaign.

The Program will reach its original goal of $35 million in time for David-
son’s 150th anniversary in 1987, but the Program’s goals can be completed
only with the aid of further funds. A drive to raise $15 million more will
begin in 1984.

Program goals include attracting $10 million in annual support for cur-
rent operations; adding $19 million to the College’s endowment; and re-
novating or constructing several buildings.

Martin Chemical Laboratory was renovated in 1978-79, and three new
buildings — the Vail Commons, and Mary Irwin Belk and Peer Knox dor-
mitories — have been built with 1987 Program funds.

Still to be completed are a new sports center, facilities for the arts and
mathematics, and shop and warehouse space.

Staley Lecturer to Visit This Weekend

s Dr. Ronald J. Sider, 1983 Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lec-
turer, will speak at Davidson March 20-21. He will discuss “Nuclear
Holocaust and Christian Hope” and “Evangelism and Social Responsibili-
ty.”

As professor of theology at Eastern: Baptist Theological Seminary in
Philadelphia and Yale graduate, Sider has published many articles and
books which reflect his interests in Christianity and social justice.

The Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Series was estab-
lished by the Thomas F. Staley Foundation and the late Thomas F. Staley ’53
as the result of Staley’s concern for students, the College, and extending the
Christian faith.

Housing Lottery Approaches
The room assignment process for the 1983-84 school year begins when
rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors select lottery numbers April 14 and
15.
Other important lottery deadlines include:
-Perimeter house requests due 8:30 a.m. April 14
“Room retention/single room requests due 8:30 April 20
-Room selections and roommate choices due 5 p.m. April 22
‘Room deposits for ’83-83 due April I.
For further details see the Housing Office’s lottery information sheet
which has been distributed to all student rooms, or contact the Housing of-
fice at ext. 188 (office hourse Mon.-Fri. 9:00-12:30 and 1:30-5:00).

Computer Word-processing Workshops Offered

The Computer Services Center now offers workshops in “Editor” and
“Runoff,” computer programs designed to aid faculty and student usets in
editing and printing writen work.

Workshops will be held Mondays through Thursdays during March and
April at the Computer Services Center. Registration forms and workshop
times are available in the computer terminal room (Chambers basement) and
at the CSC.

Plott Memorial Concert Raises $300,000

The Development Office has received $300,000 of the needed $400,000 for
the Donald B. Plott Scholarship Endowment.

Expenses for the Plott Memorial Concert should total between $60,000 and
$70,000, according to Special Assistant to the Vice-president of Development
Zach Long.

The funds given by Plott Concert patrons and other donors will provide
scholarships to support eight musically gifted students — two in each class — to
enable them to pursue their musical development independent of their formal
course of college study.

Patrons will receive audio cassette copies of the concert within six weeks;
concert posters are also available from the Development Office for those who
have not yet received one.

New Scholarship Fund Created

The Jefferson-Pilot Corporation of Greensboro, NC has awarded $50,000 to
Davidson College for use in an endowed scholarship fund designed to provide
up to five scholarships. Scholarship recipients, designated Jefferson-Pilot
Scholars in recognition of the corporation’s gift, will be selected solely on the
basis of financial need.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students
of Davidson College. Address correspondence to( The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N:C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-200 ext. 148 and 149. Offices lo-
cated on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per
year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at

Davidson, North Carolina 28036.

Jeff Mann, Associate Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Duncan. Fraser, News Editor
Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor

Bill Harmon

Jeff Dempsey, Features Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Anderson Scott, Photography Editor
Barry Elledge, Opinions Editors

Jeff Danese, Advertising Manager

. News Staff: Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford, Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff

Holland, Tim McGaughey, Mike Tantillo, Dan Voorhis

Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Biran Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jonathan Glance, Bob -
Finch, Thurston Hatcher, John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks,
Matt Morris, Tracy Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, John Lyday, Laura McGee, John
Ruppenthal

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck , James Moore, Jim Morgan
