Volume LXXil, Number 8

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday,7 January 1983

Open Trustee Meeting Today

Presidential selection process to be major topic

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Davidson Board of Trustees is
holding separate open meetings today
with students, administrators, and fac-
ulty to discuss the method of selecting a
new college president. Their meeting
for students begins at 2:00 p.m. in the
Chambers Gallery.

“This is an opportunity,” said SGA
President Tim Johnston, “for students to
say where Davidson should be ten or fif-
teen years from now, how we will get
there, and what kind of person will lead
the way.”

According to The Constitution of
Davidson College, the “Trustee Presi-
dential Search Committee” must “have
consultations with Faculty, Students,
and the Administrative Staff in carrying
out their committee function.”

Kiss Wins Rhodes |”

The trustees will consider opinions
in their open meetings today and during
the Search Committee’s hearings during
the next few months, when Faculty and
Student Committees will voice their
views.

The SGA will appoint a committee
to choose the Student Presidential Advi-
sory Committee next week. The Com-
mittee will choose 4-5 student represen-
tatives, according to Johnston, “and
will be open to all students.”

Johnston cautions, however, that
the Committee requires “all serious
committment” because there is “a lot of
hard work down the road.”

The Women’s Concerns Committee
sent an open letter to the Trustees earlier
this week expressing their goals and in-
terests. Other organizations have not yet

Davidson’s first female recipient

By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

Senior philosophy major Elizabeth
Kiss was recently named as one of 32
Rhodes Scholars from the United
States, making her Dvidson’s first fe-
male recipient and the twentieth Rhodes
Scholar in Davidson’s history. Eliza-
beth will study for two years in Oxford,
England pursuing a post-graduate de-
gree_in philosophy.

The only female from Davidson to
apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, Kiss
notes the special significance of her

achievement. “I’m pleased that in the

first decade of co-education at David-
son, a woman has been awarded a major
fellowship [such as the Rhodes Scholar-
ship].” Kiss feels many capable David-
son women neglect to apply for post-
graduate fellowships because they feel
they aren’t qualified to compete suc-

cessfully. Kiss hopes her achievement *

will encourage more women to apply
for similar awards: “The Davidson sup-
port system for people applying for fel-
lowships—if they are willing to take the
initiative—is very helpful. . . . Even if
you don’t think you ‘fit the bill’ you
should try because you. never know
what might happen.”

Kiss herself was apprehensive about

acted but will be present at today’s stu-
dent meeting. Black Student Coalition
President Anne Elliot says her group
“will be expressing its concerns” during
the meeting.

President Samuel Spencer an-
nounced on 7 December 1982 his retire-
ment from office effective 1 July 1983.
Spencer. will become President of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges (VFIC), a fund-raising group
for fourteen private colleges in Virgi-
nia.

The Trustees announced Spencer’s
appointment as President on 12 July
1967 after an exhaustive six-month
search. Then President David Greir
Martin had announced his resignation
on 7 January 1967.

A six-man faculty committee and a

her chances for the scholarship, since a ~ is

Rhodes scholar is chosen on the basis of
excellence in several areas including
academics, leadership, character, and
athletic ability. “I was concerned about
the athletic part of it because I’m not an
athlete, but now I think the [Rhodes]
program is placing less emphasis on at-
hletic achievement. . . . During the last
part of the interviews they really drilled

(Continued on p. 4)

4-man student committee advised the
group of four trustees who made the fi-
nal decision. It was the first time that the
Trustees had included faculty and stu-
dents in the decision. .

The Presidential Search Committee
considered prospects from a field of 124
friends of the college, alumni, universi-
ty professors and administrators, and
heads of major institutions.

They pared the list down to the 89
Presbyterians in accordance with a trus-
tee by-law requiring that the President
be a member of the Presbyterian
Church.

Then SGA President Tom Earnhardt
68 headed the student Advisory Com-
mittee. “The Trustees ran a completely
open show,” according to Earnhardt
“despite all the rumors going around.”

Photo by John Lyday ‘84

SE i Sp an ane I ig i SES ae A Dh A PM SP MRS SS IAC TRENDS A ERR HH |
