es

10 Friday, October 21, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor David Resnik, Executive Editor

Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
Kelly Sundberg, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editer
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

The Value Of Teaching

A.s the list of articles, papers, and books published by Davidson fac-
ulty members grows, the College and its professors will face the problem
of research time conflicting with teaching commitments.

Davidson is not a research university, and it never should become
one. At the same time, however, the increase in faculty interest in pub-
lishing over the last ten years should not go unnoticed. Faculty members
who actively engage in research in their disciplines constantly add to
their expertise and at the same time build the College’s national reputa-
tion as an academic institution.

Despite this increasing importance of research, the College’s State-
ment of Purpose dwells more on the value of teaching than research. “It
is vital that all students, freshmen as well as upperclassmen, know and
study under mature and scholarly teachers who are able and eager to pro-
vide for each of them stimulus,-instruction and guidance,” it reads. In
fact, the College often refers to personal contact with professors as one of
Davidson’s biggest advantages over many other schools. Since this is the
College’s Statement of Purpose, the College should be careful to pre-
serve it.

Many of Davidson’s senior faculty members are products of a time
when the pressure to publish was not as great. For many of these profes-
sors, teaching is and has been by far the focus of their work. What will
happen, though, when today’s junior professors become the elder states-
men of Davidson? Will they stop research, or will they bring a different
philosophy of education with them? For example, if the attitude spreads
that availability to students is unnecessary, students would stand only to
lose from this change.

These are questions which future Davidson students will need to con-
sider more carefully than today’s students do. It will become more and
more important for professors and the Administration to come to an
agreement about balancing teaching and publishing responsibilities. The
growth of interest in publishing is exciting, surely, but it can extend only
a certain amount before it impinges on the Statement of Purpose’s em-
phasis on teaching.

Finally, the tenure-track junior professors who constitute the most
active publishers here need to consider very carefully where their com-
mitments rest. Research insitutions exist for research professors; teach-
ing institutions exist for teaching professors. Given Davidson’s histori-
cal lack of receptivity toward change, any attempt to alter Davidson’s
emphasis on teaching will probably meet with resistance; the more am-
bitious publishers here should recognize the College’ s faith in the value
of teaching.

2g .

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidisonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000 ext. 149 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the-Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year. Advertising rates available
on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson; North Carolina 28036. Copyright
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor, Chet Barksdale, Andy Clark, Roxanna Guilford, -
Wayne Magruder, Bruce Plourde, Greg Smouse, Julie Sternal; Aaron Taylor. Lisa Thomas, David
* Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Ted Wilson
Features Staff: John Gathings, Assistant Features Editor, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Stephen
Mank, Matt Morris, Ida Phillips; Allison Wills
arts Ste: Scott Huie, Assistant Sparts Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Dave Earnhardt,
‘am Harmann. Rand Hartsell ; Frank Schwalbe
Photography Staff: Brad. Brechtelsbauer, Michael Dent, Cary! Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin
Horan, Mike Jester, Laura McGee, Carroll Overton, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein
_ Staff Artists: Ricfilird Cloudt, Wilson'Lowrey; Alva Moore, S¥aff'Norman
Circulation Staff: David McCurry; William White.
Advertising Staff; Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David. Van Pelt.
Production Staff: Kevin Horan,-Reb Hollenbeck Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Lou Hamilton,
Debby wie Copy bing: Christine Jackson *

eo gee

e
. Self-selection, acting with the support of

The Scream

Cloud el >
LETTERS
Oral Encouragment

tunities the Court has to offer and sub-
sequently could affect his/her choice of a
house.

The Patterson Court Committee on
Self-selection

To the Editor:
The Patterson Court Committee on

the Dean of Students, has decided that
the distribution of oral encouragements

to freshmen before the start of winter Dan Blood
term shall be a violation of the principle John Hackett
of self-selection. The committee decided Sherri Lind
to do this principally because premature Jim Shaw
oral encouragements tend to limit the Drew Wells
freshmen’s experience of all the oppor- Lach Zemp

Spanky Sees Missile

To the Editor:

sile.
So one day I was walking into the Stephen Mank
Union, when what should I see butamis- ps . Really.
Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We
try to print all letters of general interest, but we adhere
to these four guidelines: 1) We require that letters be in .
our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday. 2) We require that letters
be neatly typed. 3) We require that letters be signed and
include the author’s phone number and address. If you
have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name,
explain your situation to the editors. 4) We reserve the
right not to print letters that a) function as advertisements;
b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; c)
represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in
other letters printed on the same topic.

