8 Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

pete eee pare?
nay nett hog ay

Wallace Goodman drives to the goal

Soccer Hosts Furman For
Conference Championship

By BOYD BLACKBURN

Davidson will play Furman here to-
morrow for the Southern Conference
soccer championship, but to make it to
this game, Davidson first needed at least
a tie against Appalachian State last Satur-
day. They did just what they had to do,
keeping ASU in check through regula-
tion and two overtimes to preserve a
scoreless tie.

Because of Parent’s Weekend and the
importance of the game, the game drew
probably the biggest crowd in Davidson
soccer history. The crowd was treated to
some excellent soccer from both teams.
Crowds love goals, but this game had
enough excitement in spite of this ab-
sence.

Both teams came out aggressively,
and they contested every loose ball.
Davidson’s attack had the better of things
in the first half, though ASU stopped
several breakaways only by trips and
fouls.

In the second half, the tension and
emotion picked up dramatically. App
State knew a tie would do them no good,
and the Wildcats desperately wanted a
goal for a cushion. After several chances
Davidson failed to convert into goals,
they became a bit overcautious. Their at-
tacks were rarely sustained or supported
because of the halfbacks’ defensive
priority. ASUcarried more of the play,
but even then, their scoring opportunities
were rare. The Davidson defense pulled
off the shutdown.

Davidson controlled the overtimes.

ASU pushed too hard for the goal they
had to have, and their attack broke down.
Halfway through the second overtime it
was evident that the Wildcats were
headed for the championship.

Furman advanced by virtue of their
unbeaten record in the Southern division.
Although coming from by far the weaker
of the two divisions, Furman tied David-
son two weeks ago. They are definitely a
worthy contender for the title. They are
strong in the air and make the most of
their chances.

Still, Davidson is the better team.
They are stronger, deeper, and more
talented. Davidson will need to dominate
the game from end to end in order to win.
In recent games, the only Davidson goals
have come from constantly bombarding
the goal. They have not been able to take
advantage of the occasional chance.
Also, although the defense if strong and
fairly consistent, momentary lapses have
resulted in goals for the opposition. The
defense must be primed for every attack.
This being the last game of the season, it
can be expected that each player will give
nothing less than an all-out effort.

Davidson’s record is 12-4-3 overall.
They finished 4-1-1 in conference games
(regular season). The Wildcats were
blown out 8-0 in a non-conference game
against Wake Forest. Wake is ranked
seventh in the South, compared with
Davidson’s eighth. This loss does not af-
fect Davidson’s entry into the champion-
ship.

Tomorrow’s championship game
starts at 11:30 a.m.

Davidson Loses 50-7

By KERRY BROWN .
and DAVID McGEE
The football team took a trip to
Pennsylvania last week and played to a
50-7 loss from the Bucknell Bisons. The
Wildcats totaled an impressive 271 yards
for the day, but the Bisons’ defense held
the Wildcat offense to one touchdown,
The only score for the Wildcats resulted
from a blocked punt by junior Jerry May.
Head Coach Ed Farrell described the
game as “a tough trip for the team, and
Bucknell played well at home. We’ve
played so many tough games in a row
that we’re worn out.”

vo:

“We had a streak of five games be-
fore Bucknell against teams physically
stronger and bigger than we are.”

Farrell said the offense has suffered
from inconsistent ball control throughout
the season. “‘We’ve moved the ball well,
but once inside the 20, we have problems

. scoring. We’ve not been able to control

the ball on the ground all year because
our offensive line is smaller than our op-
ponent’s.”

The Wildcats play Catawba Saturday
at home and fans as well as players look

_ forward to a rousing win to close out the

season.

3 oye . aM 47. RD ‘ P ee eee ee a ed
. aes etn 38 Sa are ra ets oe » PRR 43. Pw Be FY Oe me a RU moe eh a a

AOL —H ORE REDE ID BEAT ED OAM OOD AIS AD 4 le ee alae alalal

Laura McGee

Cross Country Finishes 8th
In Blowing Rock Meet

By RAND HARTSELL

About the only thing keeping the
Southern Conference Cross-Country
Championships from looking like a
scene out of the Great White North was
snow. With the temperature hovering
below freezing and a biting, blustery
wind blowing off of a white-capped
pond, the wind-chill factor worked out to
be something like five degrees. The
Wildcat’ performance generated about as
much heat as the cloud-obscured sun last
Saturday. They finished eighth out of
nine teams in Blowing Rock, N.C. Frank
Ivey led the Wildcats, as he has in their
previous six competitions, with a [5th
place showing.

East Tennessee’s Dennis Stark be-
came only the second person in the last
30 years to win the conference title three
times, leading the nationally fourth-
ranked Bucs to the téam title. This On-
tario native bested runner-up Jack Ditt of
VMI by 14 seconds. Ditt was the only
runner to beat any of ETSU’s top five, a
feat unaccomplished during the previous
three conference titles.

There was a unified view among
Davidson’s harriers about the way they
performed in the meet. Freshman Trey
Jammes, who has consistently run sec-
ond for the team, lamented about the cold
weather.

“T felt fine after the first mile (around
the pond), but about half-way up the first
hill (1.5 miles) I realized I wasn’t really
going anywhere. I never felt good after
that,” Jammes said.

Sophomore Bob Watkins explained,
“It was just so cold. I couldn’t get mov-
ing. I never really felt comfortable.”

Grey Foreman and Bryan Zielinski,
on the other hand, ran respectable perfor-
mances. Foreman finished 37th and
Zielinski 40th.

“T felt pretty good the whole way,”
Foreman said. Although he took a spill
on a gravel-covered bridge with just
under a mile remaining, he said he was
not affected by the fall.

The true indication of the Cats’ per-
formance, however, lay in the team re-
sults. Western Carolina, a team David-
son had tied once and beaten once, han-
dily bested the Cats by a margin of 24
points. Furman, who could only manage
a one point margin of victory over the
Cats earlier this season, garnered 28
points less than the Cats. (In cross-coun-
try the lowest score wins.)

Rounding out Davidson’s scoring
were Jim Rogers, 46th and Frank Hague,
48th. Those not scoring for the cats were
Jammes, Watkins, Bob Tate, and Rand
Hartsell.

The Cats now look to Kenosha, Wis-
consin, November 19, for the NAIA Na-
tional Championships. “Very few of us
are satisfied with our performances,”
Hague said. “It’s not that we let up dur-
ing the race, it’s just that we couldn’t get
moving. Of course we want to do better
in Kenosha,” he said.

There’s no doubt they’ll be running
with some feelings of vindication. As
Hague summarized, ‘Saturday is hardly
indicative of what we can do.

Six Players On All-star Teams

Field Hockey Ends Season

By KARA GILMORE

The women’s field hockey team
ended its season with success recently at
the Deep South Tournament in Boone,
North Carolina. Overall the team
finished second in its pool. In the first
game, Davidson blasted Catawba 4-1 in
a game marked with spectacular passing
and offensive play — It was the most
goals the team had scored in one game
this season. With three of them being put
in by Mavin Martin.

The Ladycats played their final game
of the tournament on astroturf against the
University of South (Sewanee). The
team adjusted to the new field although
they dropped the game 1-0. They domi-
nated play and had 26 shots on goal as
compared to Sewanee’s nine.

Looking forward to next year, Coach
Patricia Daley said, “The returning team
is a young, hard-working group. Their
skills and team growth came a long way
this season. They have the potential to do

svery well next fall. I’m excited about

eset eta ta te Tate

them.”

The season did not end this weekend
for a few players and Coach Daley, how-
ever. Daley was selected to play on the
Deep South All-Club team which will
participate in the Southeast Regional
Tournament November 10-13 at
Goucher College in Baltimore. Also
named to three Deep South All-Star
teams were six Davidson players.

Freshman Heather McKee was
named to play on the number | team;
juniors Paige Marsh and Kara Gilmore
were chosen to the number 2 team;
freshman Micheline Sears, senior
Courtney Hall and Sophomore Binny
Jannetta were named to the number 3
team.

The all-star teams will all compete in

regional play in Baltimore, Maryland.

Players may compete to play in the
Thanksgiving national tournament in
Long Beach, California. Coach Daley
was also chosen to coach the number |
Southeast team in this tournament.

ee Ot es ,ata-
