10 Friday, September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

Orientation From A
Freshman’s Viewpoint

By WAYNE MAGRUDER

The word “orientation” immediately
suggests encounter, confrontation, and
nerves. Davidson’s Freshman Orienta-
tion felt that way for me and, I assume,
for over three hundred other of my class-
mates. I comforted myself with the
thought that Orientation would probably
be one of the most difficult hurdles I'd
have to leap during my career here. I’m
sure some of the upperclassmen would
disagree as they have, no doubt, seen
deeper waters since their orientation.
Still, a trial it is.

My first encounter was made some-
what easier than I had anticipated. A
pretty upperclass woman stood at the en-
trance to the Student Union and offered
all of us our “first Davidson kiss.” I took
her literally, but before I could fulfill my
intention she held up a chocolate kiss be-
tween herself and me. I only hope the rest
of Davidson women don’t play the same
game.

Armed with I.D., meal ticket, and

2:00 p.m. Sunday, things became de-
cidedly more informal. Shirt tails and
flip flops came out and everyone settled
into a routine of meetings, mixers,a nd
even the movie MASH to provide a
break. Perhaps the most impressive item
on the agenda for me was the dinner with
faculty advisor Sunday afternoon. Not
only was it a bit of relaxation —like the
eye of a hurricane—but it also provided
some informal moments for advisor and
advisees to find out about each other
without pretension.

The talent show the following Thurs-
day gave the rest of the school a chance to
see some freshmen in action. I was im-
pressed with our variety: ventriloquist,
guitarists, harmonica player, singers,
imitations of certain bands and singers,
pianists, fashion show featuring the
“lovely” curtains of Richardson, the
martial arts, and Dean Will Terry in top
form.

The Saturday regatta was a smashing
success according to most freshmen.

With ingenuity and spirit each hall had
made its own raft for a race in Lake Nor-
man. The objects were social (pre-race)

the dreaded name tag, I followed the
crowd to Belk Dormitory to face the har-

Salem

dest part—meeting the roommate. Boy,
what a dramatic production that was.
After the stock question and answer ses-
sion, there was a long dull in the conver-
sation interrupted only by the necessities
of arranging the room.

Davidson’s Orientation is rather
unique in that it is an orientation for par-
ents as well. Mine were delighted—too
delighted for my taste—at the prospect of
meeting all my future professor and col-
leagues. They treated the affair as an op-
portunity to find out who knows whom.
You know the game—while you stand
there figuring out where to put your
hands, Mother and Father are waving
down old acquaintances and updating all
family news.

Once parents had left the campus

and aggressive (during race). “I really
got into wrecking other people’s boats,”
related an otherwise calm competitor to
me. Second Center (my hall, I might
add) snatched the victory for the guys’
competition, while Fourth Richardson
took the girls’ prize. I did have one skep-
tic opinion from a shy-looking soul on
the bank after the race. “I’m sure it was
fun, but I think I had more fun watching
from the shore.”

‘ For us freshmen who, late to bed and
early to rise, the rigors of meeting so
many “people, places and faces,” was in-
toxicating and laborious. But, in the end
it proved to be an invigorating experi-
ence and certainly got us off to the right
start. At least, now we don’t have to wear
those name tags any more.

Some Things Never Change

Some things never change: a fresh
batch of freshmen filled with false hopes
of a fun-filled four years at D.C... a first
night back party at the SAE house (more
on that later) and an opening game foot-
ball loss to Wofford. Oh to be back
again!

Upon our arrival to campus while un-

know it. So listen up.

. First, we need to help you bone up on
your campus conduct. Go to the Fiji
party the other night? Uh oh. That’s a
black mark against you in Will and Sue’s
book. Didn’t your hall counselors warn
you? Those guys do DRUGS!! As the old
saying goes, the road to hell is paved

Where to go and
How to get there

A. Suspectingly strolling pastChambers, we With Fiiis. OK, then here’s Helpful, Hint
| ss a near reenactment of “The,” 1: D.C.F. Small Group meetings are

Who’s ” Cincinnati affair. It seems~a much better to attend than Fiji parties.
, thundering herd. of _ freshmen nearly _ Gatta keep that 4.0 GPA, ya know?

ES a 2a Oe 2 Qi Spo SEW EE ws)
stampeded ‘us on their way“to’ one “or

aoe Second, for*you 1 Out Of Staccrs “Ww ho’
another of those worthless$ orientation

functions. What we cannot understand is
why these kids seetn incapable of travel-
ing in groups of fewer than twenty.

But let’s not spend time dithering
about what will never change; let’s get to
the point: freshmen through this column
we are at your service. We've been there.
We know that you're basically lost for an
answer. Hey, you're new . . . and we

haven't heard yet, there'll be no driuking
after October 1. It seems the N.C. legis-
lature, in its infinite wisdom, has decided
to up the legal drinking age. This of
course means the 900 Room is strictly off
limits, as Will gleefully remarked the
other day. But don’t sweat it—for the
most part you'll be missing absolutely
nothing.

