8 Friday, March 25, 1983

The Davidsonian

FEATURES _

Death Penalty Debate Stirs Emotions

By ANDY WILSON

The chairman of North Carolinians Against the
Death Penalty and United Methodist minister Tony
Clark-Sayer met NC Superior Court Judge Frank Snepp
in a one-round unjudged debate sponsored by the David-
son chapter of Amnesty International last Sunday.

Clark-Sayer argued that the death penalty is wrong
because it is based on cruelty and expresses cruelty. It is
irrevocable and therefore unjust due to the possibility of
convicting an innocent person, according to Clark-
Sayer. Corporal punishment is unfairly administered be-
cause a disproportionate number of blacks and low-in-
come persons are sentenced to die. Clark-Sayer attacked
the death penalty on the grounds that it does not deter
violent crime and may in fact increase its incidence.

Clark-Sayer, a jail chaplain in Asheville, also op-
posed the death penalty because he believes it conflicts
with Christian beliefs. Clark-Sayer presented evidence
to support these five points.

Snepp defended capital punishment empirically by
outlining the status quo of the death penalty in North
Carolina. The death penalty excludes all but convicted
first-degree murderers and considers only those cases in
which aggravating statutory circumstances grossly out-
weigh mitigating circumstances. Examples of the
former circumstances are especially heinous, atrocious,
or cruel killings, killing a law enforcement officer, and
committing first-degree murder while serving sentence
for a previous first-degree murder.

Examples of mitigting circumstances include having

Dedicated Core

By JEFF DEMPSEY
“* and FRED BROADWELL

One evening this past fall a handful of students
gathered in Elizabeth Kiss’s room to talk about an or-
ganization called Amnesty International. Many of those
there, who later formed the core group of Davidson’s
A.I. chapter, had not even heard of Amnesty Interna-
tional at that time.

“The feeling of ignorance,” said Kiss when asked
why she felt the need for A.I. here, “tends to prevent
people, especially intellectuals, from taking initiative on
human rights questions. None of us [the core group] are
experts on human rights, and none of us can give ade-
quate philosophical justifications for our stands on
human rights. But this doesn’t prevent us from working
on these issues.”

Kiss has been an independent member of A.I. since

high school, and she often thought about joining a local .

Amnesty International group. While in France her junior
year, Kiss helped form a coalition on El Salvador and did
the same here at Davidson upon her return in the spring.
Out of these experiences, she says, grew the idea of
forming an A.I. campus group.

“What is particularly admirable about A.I.,” Kiss
said, “is that it is as free of politics and ideology as possi-
ble. Amnesty International focuses on the problem of
oppresed people, and everyone may work for A.I. with a
free conscience.”

Publicity co-chairman John Krotchko joined A.I. as
a result of an increased international awareness which he
gained while studying in India. “My knowledge of inter-
national problems meant that perhaps I could contribute:
more to Amnesty than to any other service organization
at Davidson,” Krotchko said.

Lindsay Biddle sees hér decision to join A.I. in a

a Clean criminal record, acting under mental or emo-
tional disturbance, and acting as an accomplice or acces-
sory to the fact.

Snepp stressed the importance of the death penalty as
the most effective means of upholding the rights and se-
curity of all citizens. In response to Clark-Sayer’s ac-
cusation that capital punishment is not necessarily a de-
terrent, Snepp admitted that punishment by death
“doesn’t deter anyone except the one who is executed.”

Responding to another of Clark-Sayer’s objections,
Snepp defended the United States system of justice say-
ing, “We have more safeguards against convicting an in-
nocent person than any other civilization.”

Snepp argued for capital punishment as the most
practically expedient and logical way of dealing with
persons who do not comply with the rights and restric-
tions which all citizens share equally.

Clark-Sayer defended his position by giving exam-
ples of breaches and distortions of judicial expedience;
in 1949 a Connecticut man was executed minutes before
another man exonerated him with a confession of guilt.
Of the 31 persons sentenced to death in NC in 1980, two
were found guilty by the Supreme Court.

Clark-Sayer defended his position by giving exam-
ples of breaches and distortions of judicial expedience;
in 1949 a Connecticut man was executed minutes before
another man exonerated him with a confession of guilt.
Of the 31 persons sentenced to death in 1980, two were
found guilty by the Supreme Court. Clark-Sayer argued
the room for error was extreme in these “incredible sub-

jective” cases.

Both men advanced arguments which helped their
cause but hurt their case. Snepps pointed out the judicial
non-sequiter which non-capital punishment encompas-
ses: Ist degree murder with aggravating circumstances is
life imprisonment, what good will it do to re-sentence
him to life supposing he murders again while serving
sentence?

Yet he admitted that of late the judicial process for
death penalty cases has become “a charade” and that a
prisoner might spend a good deal of his lifetime sentence
in appeals anyway.

Clark-Sayer proposed that punishment by execution
is actually murder, and moreover, collective murder, but
admitted also that to allow a repeat offender the opportu-
nity to escape and kill again is also collective condona-
tion of murder. Judge Snepps emphasized that the pre-
sent system, though fallible, is the most efficacious of
the alternatives because it allows for legal retribution in-
stead of giving credence to personal vendetta.

“I’ve seen jurors deliver the death penalty with tears
in their eyes, all of them — because they knew what they
had to do,” Snepps confided, though dispassionately.
Having worked with the judicial system for many years,
Snepps offers an experienced knowledge of the death
penalty and a comfortable acceptance of it as “the only
way.” Clark-Sayer offered as his final argument his be-
lief that no man ius beyond redemption, and that to take a
man’s life as an act of legal recourse is to deny that rede-
mption.

Group Spurs AI Growth

broader sense. “Sooner or later,” Biddle said, “you
realize that you have to take what you learn at Davidson
and apply it to the world.”

French Professor Lauren Yoder has been a member
of A.I. for four years already. “I first read about Am-
nesty International in an article in France five years ago.
I was impressed that A.I. was a non-political, non-parti-
san human rights organization.” Y oder gained first-hand
experience with the tragic side of the human rights issue
when a Mauritanina friend was hanged for his political
views. “I’ve always wondered,” Yoder said, “that if
A.I. had known of his case, he might not have been
hanged.”

Core member Chris Blake knew about Amnesty and
the overall human rights issue before he came to David-
son. In high school. Blake wrote a thesis examining
statistical studies on the deterrent effect of capital
punishment. Blake’s prior knowledge of Amnesty’s pur-
pose and structure has been the exception at Davidson;
most Davidson students first learned of A.I.’s work
when the group was formed this year.

The student response to the new chapter has been
generally quite good. “The success of the group,” com-
mented Yoder, “flies in the face of the assertion that
Davidson suffers from a general apathy. People in the
Davidson community are concerned about rights viola-
tions — the high degree of awareness both surprised and
pleased me.”

“I would like to get everyone involved,” said
Krotchko. “Only a smal] percentage of the campus has
responded, though those who have responded have
shown a great deal of enthusiasm. Yet so many don’t
give our effort the slightest heed whatever, and this dis-
appoints me.”

Foremost in the minds of all A.I. members is the
question of A.I.’s future on campus. “I hope very

much,” said Kiss, “to see the chapter continue and be-
come a Davidson institution. Groups like A.I. are indis-
pensable to academic communities because these kinds
of groups can change people’s lives as much as educa-
tion.”

Blake commented that “Davidson has a tendency to
be an intense tunnel-vision experience for many people,
and groups like A.I. serve the essential role of keeping
us aware of the world in an age of growing interdepen-
dance.” .

But what will it take for A.I. to continue to be active
at Davidson? “I think it will require strong leadership
and commitment on behalf of 10-12 people to stimulate
interest and activity on campus,” said Yoder.

“The future of A.I.,” added Krotchko, “will depend
on the amount of personal contact that the group cul-
tivatees with people on campus and in the community.
As long as we maintain a very credible and organized
group, we can look forward to an active organization
that includes members of the community and professors
as well as students.”

“I have been very much encouraged by the student
response to A.I.,” said Kiss, “particularly within the
core group. Many people who had never before thought
about human rights have shown a great committment
this year. Also, we have received a generally serious
reaction from the student body at large.”

Anyone interested in working
with AI should please contact
Elizabeth Kiss, Debbie Williams

or Hunter Monroe soon.
