12 Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

DCE Goes South

Students volunteer break for social work

By TRACY THOMPSON

-

On Saturday, February 26, when most students were
heading home or to the beach, 15 of us headed for a week
in Jackson, Mississippi. All we knew was that we were
going to do volunteer work for an inner-city, interracial
ministry called Voice of Calvary. The rest was left up to
our imaginations.

You know what the imagination can do when mixed
with stereotypes and uncertainty. Some parents had vi-
sions of religious cults, billy clubs, and lice. Many of us
envisioned street-corner evangelizing, door-to-door wit-
nessing, and food handouts. But we were all disap-
pointed — or, rather, pleasantly surprised.

What we found was a pragmatic ministry which has
actively ministered to poor rural and urban communities
in Mississippi for over 20 years. Moreover, Voice of
Calvary has become a model for Christians across the
country through its pioneering efforts in community de-
velopment and racial reconciliation through the church.

VOC sums up its approach with what it calls the
“three Rs” of community development. The first “R” is
relocation. VOC believes that in order to minister effec-
tively to the poor, one must relocate in the community of
need. VOC founder John Perkins explains, “Instead of

the people being statistics on a national poverty report,
they become our neighbors.” .

The second “R” is reconciliation, which VOC sees
as an outgrowth of relocation. Again Perkins explains,
“As we build a vertical relationship with God, we must
also build horizontal relationships with the people
around us.” VOC sees the local church as the force and
forum for reconciliation across all racial, cultural, so-
cial, and economic barriers.

The third “R” is redistribution of resources. For
VOC, this does not mean charity; it means sharing skills,
technology, and educational resources in a way which
empowers people to break out of fhe cycle of poverty and
become able to meet their own needs. Charity may al-
leviate short-term needs, but it does not instill the dignity
and skills necessary to ensure long-range solutions.
VOC seeks to restore this dignity.

Voice of Calvary sponsors several community de-
velopment projects aimed at this purpose. People’s De-
velopment, Inc. is a non-profit housing cooperative that
buys and renovates deteriorating houses in the neighbor-
hood and then rents or re-sells them to low-income
people. Some of us spent the week hanging sheet rock
and “‘mudding” the walls of several such houses.

Thriftco is a developing network of thrift stores run
by VOC which offer new and used clothes and house-
hold items at low prices. Thriftco members are part own-

Long Day’s Journey
into Life

By MATT MORRIS

The World According to Garp (1982) Produced by Geo-
rge Roy Hill and Robert L. Crawford. Directed By Geo-
rge Roy Hill. Starring Robin Williams, Mary Beth Hurt,
and John Irving as the referee. Based on the novel by
John Irving. Showings: 8 and 10:30, Love Auditorium,
$1.50. Rating: ***1/2

The World According to Garp is a real puzzle of a
movie. When I first saw it last year I found myself con-
founded by its meaning and intent and quietly gave up
about halfway through. Now, however, after several
viewings at odd hours in the AV room, I’m convinced
that Garp is something of a flawed masterpiece. In fact,
Garp is one of the few films I can think of that has the
guts to probe around into the questions and problems of
the 1980's.

Like the novel on which it is based, The World Ac-
cording to Garpis an episodic, vignette-filled look at the
life of one T.S. Garp. Garp is conceived under unusual
circumstances by his individualistic, slightly oppres-

ers and thereby receive additional discounts and a vote in
all business decisions of the store. Its aim is to provide an
economic base for the development of poor com-
munities. Davidson students cleaned the warehouses,
sorted and mended clothes, worked as cashiers and de-
signed brochures for the Thriftco in Jackson.

VOC also runs a Family Health Center aimed at
high-quality, low-cost health care. All doctors and
nurses (as well as all other VOC staff people) are volun-
teers who raise their support through outside sources.
The pride of the Health Center is its pharmacy. The Cen-
ter found that many patients either failed to fill their pre-
scriptions or could not afford retail store prices. The
VOC pharmacy is alleviating this problem.

In addition, VOC runs a Child Development Center
which sponsors weekly club meetings for hundreds of
neighborhood chidren; it founded the John M. Perkins
International Study Center which aims to develop the
leadership abilities of young people; and it has formed an
interracial church called Voice of Calvary Fellowship.
In short, it is actively living out its motto of “pioneering
in black Christian community development through the
church.”

If you would like to know more about Voice of Cal-
vary and our week there, come to a slide show and dis-
cussion Friday, March 18 at 7:00 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

FILMS

sive, always lovable mom, Jenny Fields. Jenny, deter-
mined to defy the male-oriented way of life, writes a
book called, subtley enough, Sexual Suspect. Garp also
aspires to become a writer, but, being only eight years
old, he must content himself with dreams about his mys-
terious aviator father.

From this point, the film takes off, bouncing wildly
from satire to drama, Sartre to Chuck Jones. The flying
motif keeps all this glued togeher quite well on the
screen, but previously uninitiated viewers may be baf-
fled by TWAG‘s collage-like philosophies. What TWAG
needs is John Irving’s strong narrative that carried the
book so well. Yet even that may not be an entirely accu-
rate criticism, because much of TWAG works precisely
thanks to the almost eerie non-verbal detachment direc-
tor George Roy Hill instills. The golden sequence where
Garp listens to Nat King Cole sing “There’ll Never be
Another You” on his car radio is a perfect example of the
sort of nonverbal beauty the film gradually assumes.

As with most George Roy Hill films, the acting in
TWAG is flawless. Robin Williams is downright perfect
as Technical Sergeant Garp, and any critic saying he was
Mork playing Garp can go eat celluloid. Behind his
twinkly eyes and joker smile is real compassion, and ev-
erything Williams says and does on screen is utterly con-
vincing.

Equally good is Mary Beth Hurt as Garp’s wife Helen.
Being a fan of the book I always pictured Helen exactly
like Hurt portrays her. Top awards however, go to Glenn
Close and John Lithgow. As extremist (or something)
Jenny, Glenn Close dazzles. Close perfectly realizes
Jenny’s every move, every nuance. Surely John Irving

based the character of Jenny on this actress. As Roberta__

Muldoon, former line-backer for the Philadelphia 49ers,
John Lithgow initially shocks but then makes the viewer
understand this unusual character as a compassionate
caring human being.

In spite of all this, you may find yourself, like me last
summer asking the question “Why?” I recommend you
stay for the second showing of TWAG. Perhaps then
some of the ambiguities will change into profundities for
you. The World According to Garp is like a good piece
of modern art — the more you look, the more you’!] like.

A Slice of Life from
Frank Capra’s
America

By JOHN MARKS

It Happened One Night (1934) Produced and directed by
Frank Capra. Starring Clark Gable and Claudette Col-
bert. Showings: 8:00 PM Love Auditorium (one show-
ing only!) Admission $1.50. Rating ****

It Happened One Night, the Frank Capra-directed,
Oscar-winning film is one of the great comedies of
American cinema. It’s all about a poor little rich girl
(Claudette Colbert)-who refuses to live under Daddy’s
wing and runs away. Somewhere in the midst of Cap-
raesque America, she finds herself sitting next to a
world-weary muckraker (Clark Gable) who recognizes
her from a newspaper photo and realizes he’s got the
story of the year.

Of course, they despise each other at first and, of
course, they fall in love. It’s an engrossing, endearing
film with fine performances by both Colbert and Gable,
not to mention sparkling bits from Frank Capra’s usual.
conglomeration of odd characters.

The scenes when Gable and Colbert are together in
the hotel room are expecially interesting becuse they
portray American attitudes about acceptance of sex on
the screen. Colbert hangs a sheet in the middle of the
room so the two won’t really be spending the night to-
gether. It seems ludicrous, yet the sincerity of the ges-
ture precludes any condescension. Frank Capra believed
in a more innocent, idyllic America than perhaps ever
existed, but his vision is crisp, clear and ultimately won-
derful. For this reason, both the Colbert-Gable relation-
ship and the world in which it exists work.
