Committees Join in President Search

Student, Faculty, & Trustee Committees recently forn formed

By ROSS A. HOLT ’85

Work began this week to bring the
student advisory committee, the Trustee
Search Committee and faculty advisory
committee together in the search for
someone to fill the shoes of outgoing
President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer.

The student committee will consist
of Mary Tabb, Rod Holman, Elizabeth
Brooks, Mike Mauze and Ben Will-
iams. The SGA announced the selec-
tions Thursday.

SGA President Tim Johnston, Vice-
President Boe Young and SGA
members Mark Oldenburg, Burt Tay-
lor, and Sherburne Laughlin inter-
viewed approximately forty applicants
for the five positions.

They focused on three major areas:
the applicant’s time committment for
spring and possibly summer; his or her

ability to represent a wide range of stu-
dent opinion; and committment to the
College. Johnston said they looked for
“people who had thought things out,
who were sincere, and who had thought
about the College’s future.”

Johnston said that he hopes the stu-
dent committee will play a major role in
communicating to the Trustees “as wide
a base of [student] opinion as possible.”
He said the committee would act in an
advisory capacity, perhaps even inter-
viewing prospective presidents.

In a telephone interview Wednes-
day, Chairman of the Board of Trustees
Dr. Fred Stair said that Ben T. Craig of
Winston-Salem has been selected as
chairman of the Trustee Search Com-
mittee. Stair announced that the
members of the Presidential Search
Committee are Ben Craig, chairman;
John Medlin, vice chariman; John Ma-

Greenpeace Director to Speak

The National Director for Green-
peace, U.S.A. John Hinck will present
a talk entitled “Greenpeace and Envir-
onmentalism in the 1980s” at 7:00 p.m.
on 10 March in the 900 Room.

Davidson’s N.C. PIRG Chapter is
sponsoring his visit.

Hinck will-address the issues of tox-
ic waste disposal, acid rain, nuclear
waste and dumping at sea, and the kill-
ing of whales and harp seals.

He will show film footage of Green-
peace’s direct action against ocean

William Attwood is

dumping and slides about other environ-
mental issues and Greenpeace cam-
paigns during his talk.

Greenpeace is an international en-
vironmental agency.

Hinck has published articles on en-
vironmental subjects in trade magazines
and environmental magazines. He has
also coordinated successful Greenpeace
campaigns to keep oil tankers out of the
inland waters of the pacific North West
and to promote clean air and control
acidrain.

Woodrow Wilson Fedlow

By DIANA BOHRER ’85

William Attwood, veteran diplo-
mat, journalist, and author, will visit
Davidson Monday, Feb. 6 through Fri-
day, Feb. 11 as this year’s Woodrow
Wilson Visiting Fellow.

During his stay, Attwood will speak
on topics of international politics, lec-
ture to classes, and lead informal dis-
cussions about United States foreign
policy.

Five of Attwood’s discussions will
be open to the public free of charge.
Tuesday at 3 p.m. in the Morrison

Room, he will conduct a talk on “Rus- -

sia: Its Strengths and Weaknesses.”
That evening Attwood will join former
United Nations delegate from Liberia
Professor Lafayette Diggs for a discus-
sion on “Misconceptions about Africa”
at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.

_Attwood’s third _ presentation,
“Writing, Reporting, and Editing,” will

follow an open luncheon in the 900
Room. His talk will start at 1:10 p.m.
An address on “Disturbing Trends in
U.S. Politics” will follow at 3 p.m. in
the Morrison Room. His final public
discussion, entitled “Cuba and the U.S.
from 1958 to the Present,” will be at 3
p.m. Thursday in the Morrison Room.

Besides conducting public discus-
sions, Attwood will speak to classes on
topics ranging from Third World devel-
opment to the aging process. He will
meet informally with students and fac-
ulty members in the Conversation Pit
every day except Wednesday from 10 to
11 a.m.

Students may. sign up for a dinner
with Attwood in the Conference Room
Thursday at 6 p.m. or for breakfast in
the Commons every day at 8 a.m. He
will possibly attend Tuesday’s Crop
Lunch as well. The sign-up dinner will
cost $2.00.

whinney, secretary; Jane Armfield;
John Belk; E. Craig Wall Jr.; and Fred
Stair, ex officio.

The Trustee’s Presidential Search
Committee welcomes nominations
from students. Recommendations
should be made by using a special Da-
vidson College Presidential Search
Committee Information Sheet, which is
available at the Student Government
Association office or in the office of the
vice president for development.

The form should be mailed to Da-
vidson College Presidential Search
Committee, 1200 Commerce Center,
Charlotte, N.C. 28202.

The Faculty advisory committee is
one member away from being com-
plete. During balloting last week, the
faculty selected four of its members out
of sixteén nominees. The four are pro-

fessors David Kaylor, John Kelton,
Charles Ratliff, and James Swisher. A
run-off ballot today between professors
Hansford Epes and Gill Holland will de-
cide the fifth committee position. A
chairman has yet to be chosen.

Dr. David Kaylor said he is unsure
about exactly how the faculty commit-
tee will contribute to the selection pro-
cess, but he believes it will have a major
influence. '

Both Kaylor and Johnston felt that
all three committees would meet togeth-
er before the student and faculty com-
mittees will know exactly what their du-
ties will include. Dr. Stair is looking for
an on-campus meeting between all the
committees towards the end of next
week so the groups can hammer out the
guidelines within which the advisory
committees would work.

College Board Advises:
Get It Right, Do It Fast

(CPS) — Two months late, the fed-
eral government has finally released
student aid application forms for
fall, 1983 academic term.

But because the U.S. Dept. of Edu-
cation took so long, the College Board
— which processes many of the applica-
tions for the government — is warning
students to fill out the forms fast, and to
get them right the first time.

Students should “get them filled out
and in the mail immediately,” advises
Kathryn Ribbey, a spokeswoman for
the College Board’s College Scholar-
ship Service. Moreover, they should
“fill out the forms very accurately, be-

cause there’s less time for corrections.”

The forms usually come out in No-
vember, but were delayed this year be-
cause Education Dept. officials
couldn’t agree on the questions and for-
mat of the applications, Ribbey says.

Because of the lateness of the forms
and the subsequent confusion expected,
the College Board has set up a toll-free
“hotline” that students can call to find
out about the status of their applica-
tions. That number, Ribbey says, is
printed at the top of the new applications
which are now available at college fi-
nancial aid offices or through the Col-
lege Board.

Compensation forSummer Thefts

By DAN VOORHIS ’84

Davidson College will decide soon —

on compensation for the $6,627 worth
of students’ stored property stolen over
the summer.

“Davidson College is definitely not
liable,” said Belk Dorm Senator Leon
Mason, chairman of an SGA committee
investigating the matter, “‘but out of the
goodness of their hearts, they will pay a
percentage of the cost.”

Mason said the College would prob-
ably refund half the assessed value of
the stolen goods. Possessions covered
by a homeowners insurance policy
would be made good by the College for

up to half the cost.

Business Manager Bob Currie must
approve the final plan.

The thefts “raise the question of how
much will be stored next year and by
what procedure,” said Dean of Students
Will Terry. “It raises the future of the
whole policy.”

Most of the larcenies took place in
Belk Dormitory, but thieves looted the
entire campus. Drew Wells, Norwood
Smith, Dan Metzel, Doug Vass, Eliza-
beth Wilson, John Toler, and Robert
Bruce reported losses to the police.

Police found only one suspect, a
painter who worked on the renovation
project.

- THE DAVIDSONIAN/4 February 1983.

6
