Friday, November 11, 1983/The Davidsonian ~ 7

Divisional Races Tighten For College Bowl Junkies

By TIM WAPLES

As College Bowl says goodbye to fall
term, let’s have a moment of silence for
the College Bowl junkies. For a week,
they’ll have ‘to do without the daily trips
to the College Bowl Corner. Back home
there’s nobody around to tell what you’ll
be ranked-next week. The CB junkie will
be forced to resort to Tic-Tac-Dough and
Sale of the Century for his weekly fix.
Naturally the junkie and his almanac will
be inseparable. So remember the junkie
when you're working off all that
Thanksgiving turkey out in the yard —
he’ll be asleep in the reference section of
your local library.

Even rational College Bowlers are
buzzing about one topic — the tourna-
ment. Scheduled to begin immediately
after Christmas, the double-elimination

tournament will include the top two
teams from each of the four divisions. At
this point in the regular season, when no
team has more than one or two games left
in the season, everybody’s got his eye on
the frontrunners, hoping to sneak into the
tourney or play the spoiler. Here's the
situation in each of the four divisions:
AL EAST: Whiplash, undefeated
and ranked number |, has clinched the
division crown. They’ll end their season
with the Necrophiliacs on the first Mon-
day of Winter Term. Number 8 Rubber
Babies (3-1) must beat Gracefully Ris-
que on the last day of the regular-season
to clinch the second spot. If Risque wins
and Peking Man beats Good Buzz, then
the Babies, Risque, and Peking Man will
be tied for the second spot. The tieb-
reaker is total points scored over the sea-

» AL WEST: Number 7 I Phelta Thi’s
come-from-behind win over number 4
Fourth Estate clinched them a spot in the
Big Time. Fourth Estate will join Thi if
they can beat Absolute Values on that
first Monday. If Fourth Estate stumbles,
they'll probably still squeeze in on the
total points tiebreaker.

NL EAST: With four teams in the
Top Ten, this is clearly the most com-
petitive division. Number 5 Madd Mudd
really made things easy for themselves
by knocking off Buzz two weeks ago. All
they have to do is beat The Blehc (0-4) on
the first Monday back to make their
Christmas vacation a little sweeter.

Opposite their match will be the
biggest one of the year to date: number
two Buzz Aldrins vs. number nine

-— Music

By STEPHEN MANK

Tom Waits’s new LP
Swordfishtrombones has all the charm
of acircus sideshow. This grotesquerie
of bizarre and frightening images
lashes out with a biting satire at no par-
ticular target.

Instead of taking the listener by the
hand and showing him the smiling as-
pects of life, Waits’s rough voice pulls
the listener by the hair and drags him
through the waste and debris he might
otherwise ignore.

The first song on the album, “Un-
derground,” boasts a_ razor-sharp
guitar that acts as an ironic antithesis to
Waits’s god-awful vocals. Minimalist
drums in the background echo of
jungle rhythm while the lyrics wade
through horrific images of all the
strange and ghoulish things that occur

underground.
The following song, ‘Shore
Leave,” is as accurate a musical por-

trayal of the sleazy Hong Kong night-
life as it is a lyrical portrayal. Some-
how, the unusual instrumentation im-
mediately brings to mind wet asphalt

Tom Waits’s Circus Sideshow

completely dark except for the reflec-
tions of too many neon signs.
Another terrifying song is ‘‘Frank’s
Wild Years,” about some guy that
burns his family and house and a little
chihuahua named Carlos’ with

gasoline. The lyrics are perhaps the
wittiest modern music has produced.
But Waits is just as adept at singing
of melancholy as he is at singing of kil-
lers, whores, and manic paranoia.
“Soldier’s Things” is about a fam-
ily so poor that they must sell the trin-

kets and awards of a son lost to war.
“Johnsburg, Illinois” touchingly exalts
love as it trivializes it: “there’s a place
on my arm / where I’ve written her
name / next to mine / you see I just
can't / live without her / and I’m her
only boy / and she grew up in McHenry
/ in Johnsburg, Illinois.”

“Town with No Cheer” laments a
town that has died with the death of the
railroad.

Of the three instrumentals on this
whopping 15-song LP, the best is
“Dave the Butcher.” It doesn’t even
need lyrics to make you think of some
blood-thirsty fat man running around
with a cleaver.

Swordfishtrombone is not a pretty
album to listen to. The music is brain-
scrambling, and the vocals are proba-
bly the worst on record. But Waits has
a peculiar genius for conjuring images
— images no one else would have the
nerve to conjure. This album is not
meant to be background. Rather, it is
designed to be pondered, like Russian
poems. Those who don’t hate the
album will love it.

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN, er
WE’LL PAY FOR IT.

If you're willing to

invest

your skills and

knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we’ll
invest in you and pay your way through medical
school. It’s the Armed Forces Health Professions
Scholarship Program.
It pays for:

{]) medical school tuition

{!} books, supplies, equipment and lab fees
plus a monthly income of more than $550.

The Air Force offers a great beginning for you in
medicine. See your Air Force recruiter for details.

A great way of life.

Pisces. Assuming that Madd Mudd loses
and Buzz wins, then number ten
Apocalyptic Hope could enter the picture
with a win over Jed P. Don’t expect it to
be that complicated however. Just be in
the 900 Room at 8 p.m., Nov. 28, as
Buzz and Pisces duke it out.

NL WEST: Number 6 Egomaniac
and the Yes Men need just one victory in
their last two games to clinch a berth.
Number 3Better Luck Next Year needs
two wins to finish the season at 4-1. If
they falter, Les Miserables (2-1) and Les
Idiots Savants (2-2) are still in the pic-
ture. If two of these teams end up tied for
second, then the team that won their reg-
ular season match goes to the tourney. If
there’s a three-way tie, then total season
points is the tiebreaker.

In action last Monday, double-bar-
reled upsets took place at 7:00 as I Phelta
Thi nipped Fourth Estate 160-140 and
Apocalyptic Hope slipped into the Top
Ten by thumping Pisces 215-130. Clutch
performances from old Thi guys Loper
and King and a rousing halftime pep talk
from Coach Steve Hughes helped them
overcome a 30-point halftime deficit.
Pisces proved Drew Davis’ importance
to the team Monday. Without him,
Pisces came out flat and got ambushed by
four hungry freshmen before they knew
what hit them.

In other matches, Madd Mudd stayed
red-hot, crushing Jed P. 295-45. If this
team can keep the mo going over the
break, the Mudd will be a force to reckon
with in the tourney. Whiplash inherited
the number one spot by stopping Peking
Man 215-105 after watching the Estate
crumble. Buzz Aldrins stumbled by
Blehc, Les Idiots Savants edged the
Thundering Amoebi in a cliffhanger,
Rubber Babies coasted past Good Buzz,
and Gracefully Risque and the Fresh
Men notched wins as well.

One last reminder: College Bowl is
on for Nov. 28, the first Monday every-
one is back for winter term. Check the
College Bowl Corner for the schedule
and the latest fun from the Green Room

. and keep your hands off that al-
manac over the break!

Classifieds

Biochemist, Graduate School Fel-
lowships at the University of Alabama
Medical Center. The Graduate Pro-
gram in Biochemistry at the University
of Alabama in Birmingham invites ap-
plications from highly qualified stu-
dents interested in a Ph.D. program.
Major areas of emphasis include. fun-
damental molecular biology,
biochemistry of nucleic acids, recom-
binant-DNA techniques, physical
biochemistry, biochemistry of connec-
tive tissues, enzymology, X-ray crys-
tallography and NMR spectroscopy.
All students admitted to the program
receive fellowships of $7,500 per year,
plus tuition and fees. Interested stu-
dents should contact Dr. Charles E.
Bugg, Chairman of the Admissions
Committee, Department of Biochemis-
try, University of Alabama in Birmin-
gham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294.
Chemistry majors are encouraged to

apply!

