6 Friday, October 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

Church Reunification Mends 122 Year Split

By ELIZABETH BROOKS -

Fourteen years of negotiation ended
in June with a march down the streets of
Atlanta symbolizing the reunification of
the northern and southern Presbyterian
churches that split in 1861.

Robert Lamar, minister of the First
Church of Albany, N.Y. and Randy
Taylor, Davidson alumnus and minister
of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte, co-chaired the joint commit-
tee that led the restoration effort.

Taylor said that the recent healing of
the break “‘is a once in a lifetime, once in
a century opportunity to renew church
spirit and mission in the late Twentieth
century.”

Chairman of the Board of Trustees
Fred Stair said that the reunification
“gives Davidson an opportunity to have
an even more global and national per-
spective. It will also enable the College
to review relationships with presbyteries
in a time of creative transition.”

Last year, the general assemblies of
the northern United Presbyterian Church
of the United States of America (UP-
CUSA), meeting in Hartford, Conn. and
the Southern Presbyterian Church of the
United States, meeting in Columbus,
Ga., ratified the reunification proposal.

The agreement was then sent to the
individual presbyteries of each church
for approval. The 151 presbyteries of the
UPCUSA passed the measure unaninim-
ously. Fifty-three of the PCUS pre-
sbyteries voted approval supplying the
required three-fourths majority.

After passing in the presbyteries, the
final vote returned to the two General As-
semblies meeting in Atlanta in June. On
the 10th, after the final vote, the mem-
bers of the long-divided church marched
together down the long boulevard lead-
ing to the Georgia capitol building.

The march only occurred after 14
long years of study and evaluation by the
committee on the issues splitting the
church. The problem was not doctrinal
but rather emotional. The anger that di-
vided the Presbyterians during the Civil
War only very slowly died out in their
minds.

The committee’s job, said Taylor,
was to “find the root of the problem and
break down stereotypes. To this end,
they conducted member opinion polls to
disciver and eliminate the prejudices of
the ministers and parishoners. It was a
process Taylor called “racial reconcillia-
tion,” in a recent article.

Reunification was defeated three
times while the committee operated. The
first resolution was defeated by the Gen-
eral Assemblies of both churches in
1972. The committee, using suggested
improvements from those meetings, sub-
mitted new proposals in both 1974 and

1978. Both were similarly rejected.

Prior to the Civil War, the Presbyte-
rian Church had grown steadily since
first establishing itself in America during
the 17th century. The southern branch
voted itself into existence in 1861 be-
cause of an irreconcilable difference in
outlook between the two groups.

Several unsuccessful attempts at
reunification occurred immediately after
the Civil War. Reconstruction and reg-
ional bitterness quashed these efforts.
Culturally conditioned problems have
haunted the church ever since.

Terry’s Committee

oral encouragements to a few prospects
early and continue the process through-
out the fall. Some freshmen were encour-
aged as early as three weeks into the
year.

The committee reasoned that rolling
bids would lead to dividing freshman
halls quickly into those “accepted” and
those not. Further, they felt that rolling
bids discriminate against other houses
who could not or would not start so early.
The committee also reasoned that rolling
bids prematurely limited the freshmen to
one house.

Spencer’s Letter

The committee represents a com-
promise between former President
Samuel Spencer and Terry. Spencer,
who originated the self-selection policy

(Continued from page |)

12 years ago, sent a letter to the Court
fraternities’ national headquarters in
June. Spencer wrote that “the purpose of
this letter is to request a re-confirmation
of [self-selection] in writing. If for any
reason you are now unwilling to reaffirm
your agreement, the fraternity may re-
main as a Campus social organization in
accordance with college policy, but will
release for other purposes the Patterson
Court house now occupied.” He de-
manded that fraternities reply to Terry by
Sept. 1.

Terry wanted to modify Spencer’s
policy because he saw value in the frater-
nity status quo. He pointed out that
“fraternities have on the whole de-
veloped a better quality of fellowship,
friendship, and group loyalty than

Fj ee
By ALLISON WILLS

“The main reason we bought it was
to get by the new DUI laws,” Phi
Gamma Delta President Tom Hissam
said of the fraternity’s newly purch-
ased bus.

The Fijis paid the Caldwell
A.M.E. Church in Mt. Mourne $500
for the bus which previously trans-
ported youngsters to Sunday worship.
The fraternity painted the bus purple
and will use it to carry students to and
from the fraternity’s off-campus house
for parties.

“All our drivers have the appropri-
ate license, and they don’t drink until
they are through driving,” Hissam
said.

Hissam said that shortly after mid-
night last Friday, ABC officers set up
two road blocks to enforce the newly
activated DUI laws. “The bus will
solve the problem of people driving
drunk and getting in trouble,” he said.

, The College administration appar-
ently approves of the idea. “They think

ves a lot of the [DUI law] conflicts.”
Despite its 53 body and °67 rebuilt
engine, the bus (often referred to as
“The Magic Bus” after the song by The
Who) “runs great,” and has caused the
Fijis no problems so far.
To finance the $1,000 cost of in-

it’s a good idea,” Hissam said. “It sol- ©

Bus Solves DUI Law Conflicts

Fijis sitting on the Magic Bus

suring the bus, Fiji plans to rent the bus
to other Davidson fraternities for use in
progressive drinking parties. But first,
Hissam said, the fraternity plans to
make improvements. “Eventually the
latex paint on it will wash off,” he said.
“We're gonna sand blast it and paint it
right. But it will still be purple.”
Train Incident Not A Close Call

.At ‘the bus’s’ debut Friday night
rumor spread that it stalled ever the
railroad ttacks in front of an oncoming :
train. The bus “just stopped at a stop
sign and the back end overlapped onto
the tracks,” Hissam said.

Bus driver Chuck Elyea, who had
not been drinking that night, said he

But the train didn’t come close to us,”

Peggy Pierotti

had stopped at the Beaty Street stop
sign and was turning right onto Main
Street when he heard shouts from per-
sons on the bus.

“The people couldn’t see out very
well and they thought the train was a
lot closer,” said Hissam. “This one
freshman freaked out and ran off the
bus teward the party. Then everybody
freaked out.” — .

‘A lot of them on the bus had been.
drinking, so it scared them all a little.

Elyea said.

‘Hissam stresed that the incident
was exaggerated and the driver of the
bus was not intoxicated.

coeducational eating clubs,” and “‘frater-
nities make a significantly more valuable
contribution to the social life of the
Court.” But he did note that greater num-
bers of students than ever were “being
hurt by rejection by fraternities.”

As a result Terry recommended that
“the right of the individual to make the
final decision be preserved.” Also in-
cluded in this proposal was the formation
of the Committee on Self-Selection. The

- committee as Terry saw it would concen-

trate on educating the freshmen and not
on antagonizing the fraternities.

Some house officers praised Terry’s
attempt to satisfy both sides of the ques-
tion. Phi Delta Theta, President Tom
Okel said, “Dean Terry ig trying to help
the Court system.”

Despite Terry's efforts, many frater-
nity members resent the committee try-
ing to stop their traditional way of doing
business. SAE President Terry Kurtz
thought that they would have a “conflict
with the committee. It’s good that they
counsel freshmen, but they're stepping
out of bounds.”

Kurtz felt that the whole concept be-
hind self-selection was “contrary to the
nature of any prideful institution,
whether it be Davidson or a house on Pat-
terson Court.”

For now, however, fraternities plan
to cooperate with the new regulations toa
certain extent. Kurtz said, “We will fol-
low our traditions, but we will follow the
letter of the law.”

AIR
FORCE

ROTC —
HERE ARE THE:FACTS —

When you're discussing something as important as
your future, it’s urgent that -you get the straight facts
...and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC
can be an important part of yolr future. We would like
to outline ‘some of the facts and invite you to look into
gathering more.

It's a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedi-
cated officers. . .men and women. It’s a fact: we need
people in all kinds-of educational disciplines. It’s a fact: »
we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can
qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. “

Get together with an AFROTC representative and
discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts. It
could be one of the most important talks you've ever
had with anyone about your educational plans.

AT ROELORGT:

We ee
