The Mai/

Dean Terry Responds to Alumnus Letter

To The Editor:

This is an answer to John Cutchin’s,
‘72, complaint about my actions to quiet
the student hecklers behind the Notre
Dame bench since I am the administra-
tor with whom he is upset. (His letter
was much longer and a copy was sent to
me.)

I was not upset by the quantity of
noise but by the quality; that is what
prompted my action. The behavior be-
hind the bench was, in my judgment,
bush league and not up to Davidson
standards. It is not the first time it has
happened. At the Furman game, a sim-

ilar thing happened at the end of the
game. That group of students came to
me later and apologized for their behav-
ior. They had, on their own, reflected
on the conduct and concluded it was in-
appropriate. | take pride in that kind of
student and believe they will be alumni
who will support Davison’s best tradi-
tion.

There are some other habits students
have gotten into which are not first
class. One is yelling b--- s--- when they
don’t like a call. The other is waving
their hands behind the basket during the
opponent’s foul shot. During a Carolina
game at Chapel Hill when arm waving

A Reprint

of the Alumnus’s Letter

To the Editor:

With great pride I rejoiced in the swee-
test basketball victory Davidson Col-
lege has experienced in many years, be-
ing the victory over Notre Dame on
Tuesday, January 4, in overtime, 54-
51. Never have I seen the students more
involved in a game; never have I seen
enthusiasm for Davidson basketball at a
greater peak than at that game; and the
scene after the game on the basketball
court was reminiscent of years gone by.
This Davidson team is a team of which
the College can be proud, and a team on
the upswing. However, one thing about
the game still bothers me after the cele-
bration was over: the actions of one ad-

ministration official towards a group of

Davidson College students sitting di-
rectly behind the Notre Dame bench.
Throughout the game, until this ad-
ministration official visited that section
of the stands, the students in that section
were heckling the Notre Dame bench
and, particularly, “Digger” Phelps,
head coach. However, the heckling was
good-natured, in the form of mainly
telling the coach to sit down, and yelling
loudly during any timeouts. Such yell-
ing and interest in the game is what
gives a home team a home court advan-
tage. It is a well known fact that the Uni-

versity of North Carolina, during the

late days of Frank McGuire and the ear-
ly days of Dean Smith, gave the football
team of U.N.C. tickets behind the op-

posing coaches’ bench at all home

games at Chapel Hill. To say the least,

the football team would do a resounding

job of creating a definite home court ad-

vantage. Such has been exercised at the

past games at the Charlotte Coliseum,
particularly the Furman and Massachu-
setts games. Such occurred at the Notre

Dame game, until one certain school ad-
ministration official came and told the
students in that particular section not to
do it any more. This was totally disre-
spectful of students’ rights and puts a

definite damper on school spirit.

I had several people sitting near me
at the game the other night state that
they had never seen such good old-fa-
shioned school spirit as the Davidson
College students had that evening. |
have brought guests with me to the
Wake Forest and Furman games this
year. The reaction of those guests was
that they were very proud to see that Da-
vidson College had the kind of school
spirit it did, and it gave them a great
feeling to see such school spirit alive
again at Davidson. One of these particu-
lar guests was a Wake Forest fan.

If administration officials are going
to tell students when to yell and when
not to yell, then I suggest the following
arrangements also be made:

(1) Ear plugs be provided free of
charge to all referees during a game so
that they will not have to listen to the
constant badgering and heckling when
bad calls are made, said heckling occur-
ring by not only students, but also alum-
ni, some of whom are actually louder
than the students.

(2) Students not be allowed to sit be-
hind either of the goals at the coliseum,
in that when a foul shot is being attemp-
ted by the opposing team, the waving
hands of the students will no longer
cause a distraction to the poor fellow
standing at the line.

(3) Cheerleaders be relegated to sta-
tus in box seats only. To allow them to
sit at one end of the court or the other
must have a terribly detrimental effect
upon the opposing team, especially

took place, Coach Dean Smith stopped
the game to remonstrate students con-
cerning such antics. That is the kind of
coaching I admire. /1 is the kind of coach
we have in Bobby Hussey. He is recruit-
ing quality students and is requiring
their best in basketball, academics and
decorum. He and the players deserve
the same from the fans, the students,
and the alumni:

Bad behavior at games by a few stu-
dents reflects upon all of us and negates
students’ influence on other issues. At
the Trustee meeting last Friday, one
Trustee commenting on the behavior
behind the Notre Dame bench said,

Wildcats vent their spleen.

when the cheerleaders do their job,
which is yelling.

(4) Cordon off an area directly be-
hind the opposing team’s bench at the
Davidson College gym, in that that par-
ticular section has been previously re-
served for Davidson College students
and the Davidson College band. Such
must put an opposing team under terri-
ble stress to try to talk during a timeout
when Davidson College students are
there yelling with cheers or the band is
playing.

To say the least, any of the sugges-
tions above are ridiculous; and not to al-
low students, and to tell them, not to
yell at an opposing coach or an opposing
to in effect deprives them of their school
spirit and part of what college basketball
is all about. How quickly some school
officials forget that there were some
coaches in the late sixties and early sev-
enties from opposing schools that actu-

‘ ally looked forward to coming to David-

son, in that Davidson students particu-

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

“The Davidson student stinks and
doesn’t deserve to be consulted in a pre-
sidential search.” That's a sweeping
generalization, but it delivers the mes-
sage, | hope.

School spirit is important. Victories
like the one over Notre Dame are great
to experience, but there is no substitute
for class and good sportsmanship. It is
really up to students to police them-
selves, but when they renege on that,
they ask others to step in. Enough said, |
hope.

Will H. Terry
Dean of Students

by Jeff Mann

larly loved to yell, so much that the
coaches would wave to the students
when they came into the gym. In fact,
one such coach, when his team played at
Davidson on Valentine's Day one year,
was given a Valentine from the David-
son students. Even so, when he ranted
and raved during the game, he got his
share of cat-calls, all being in good na-
ture.

The main purpose of writing this let-
ter is to make a plea to the administra-
tion of Davidson College and to the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Administra-
tion, let the students have their fun at the
games, and don’t try to take away that
fun by bothering them during the middle
of the game, telling them not to yell,
when they are doing nothing but gener-
ating good school spirit to start with.
Students, scream your loudest at the
games, and keep generating that home
court advantage that means so much.
Such is all an endearing part of Colle-
giate athletics.

John F. Cutchin ’72
