From the Study Room

Quasi-Total Absence succumbs to Herpes

By MARVIN OVERBY ’83

In the end, Quasi-Total Absence lost the Intramural
College Bowl Championship at the charity stripe. In
Monday night’s 165-150 loss to Herpes Complex,
when the game was on the line, Quasi got the toss ups,
but could not convert on the bonuses.

Herpes had advanced to the finals by a 130-105 vic-
tory over the Wrath of the Romulans in the winners’
bracket. Both got off to a slow start, and a low scoring
first half saw Herpes take an 80-70 lead midway
through the game. Outscoring the opposition 50-35 in
the second half, Herpes relied on a clutch performance
by senior standout Jeff Dempsey. The Romulans were
plagued throughout the game by poor offensive motion
and pop-culture standout John Manson was obviously
off his game.

Quasi-Total Absence. advanged to the finals by

winning three consecutive losers’ bracket games. In -

their first game, relying on scoring from Lee Torrence
and Laura Singleton, they withstood a late second half
rally to hold on and defeat Buzz Aldrin. Buzz’s run was
ignited by outstanding play freshman phenomenon Sa-
ra Beasley and a solid performance by sophomore Jeff
McEwen. It took a clutch answer by John Odell in the
last 30 seconds of play to ice the game for Quasi.

Startled by their near loss, Quasi looked quite shak-
en as they began their losers’ bracket semi-finals game
against Going go a Go-Go. A bad interrupt by Torrence
and a general lackadaisical mood resulted in Go-Go
taking an early 40——5 lead. Midway through the first
half, however, Quasi regained its confidence and the
game was as good as over. Despite an outstanding per-
sonal performance by Ann “The Meteor” Meador,
Quasi took a 105-60 lead into the half and never looked
back. Able to control the board at will in the second
half, Quasi worked its fast break to perfection and out-
scored the shell-shocked sophomores 120-30. Final
score: 225-100.

Then came the finals of the losers’ bracket pitting
the 6-1 Romulans against the 7-2 Quasi. The opportu-
nity to avenge an earlier loss to Herpes was on the line
for both teams and the fireworks began. The first half
was fiercely contested. Led by literary expert Lee Tor-
rence, the seniors opened up an early lead. But then the
Romulans tumed it on. Chris Blake scored on three
consecutive toss ups and pulled the Romulans back in-
to the game. At the half Quasi had a narrow 40-point
lead, 130-90.

Unfortunately, the Romulans never made it out of
the locker room for the second half; or at least they
would have been better off if they hadn’t. The second
half — as it has been all year long — belonged to Qua-
si. In perhaps the best half played by any team this sea-
son, Quasi racked up 170 points and held the offensive-
ly potent Romulans to -5. This game was the fourth
time this season that Quasi had scored 300 points or
more and the only time the Romulans had been held
scoreless in a half.

The Finals

Quasi’s victory in the losers’ bracket set up the per-
fect finals game. The contest pitted the two most offen-
sively minded teams in the league against each other.
Seven of the eight players were seniors, playing their
last College Bowl game. And there was a grudge.
Herpes, in its best game of the season, had humiliated
Quasi 320-145 the week before. As Quasi captain John
Odell bravely, albeit recklessly, proclaimed: “I want
Herpes!”

The first half was exceptionally close and the lead
see-sawed back and forth. Behind balanced scoring by

Torrence, Odell, and Singleton, Quasi scored 90 and
took a 15-point lead into the half. Then, in the second
half, the jinx set in. You could see it happening — each
side grimacing as the other failed to answer bonus
questions that it knew. And that was where the game

was won — or lost. Led by Singleton’s four, Torren-

ce’s three, and John Odell’s two, Quasi answered more
toss ups, but Herpes got the second half bonus points
and won 165-150. The winners were led by Jeff Demp-
sey’s four toss ups. Jeff Herrin and John Lusk each an-
swered two.

Tryouts

With the completion of the 1982-83 tournament,

Coach Hans Epes is now thinking about the future. Ac-
cording to Epes, the Intercollegiate Cats will be draft-
ing some 8-12 underclassmen and inviting them to try
out for the two opening on next year’s varsity team.
Epes indicated that draft notices are “in the mail” and
that tryouts will begin Monday, January 17 at 7 p.m. in
the Union. Final cuts are expected by the end of next
week.

Rumors
Inside sources tell this reporter that the next construc-
tion at Davidson may not be a new gym or a remodelled

~

Morehead
Medical
Center

arts center but rather the long-awaited College Bow]
dormitory. Reportedly to be called Epp’s Palace, the
multi-million dollar project is said to be high on lame-
duck President Spencer’s list of last minute things to
get done. Initial plans for the complex call for a thumb
Nautilus, a special training table, and a location off-
campus to protect the student body from a repeat of the
team’s post-training rules melee . . . Study Room has
also learned that two-year starter Brad Mullis, who had
earlier announced his intentions to declare hardship
and become a panelist on “Hollywood Squares,” may
be considering remaining at Davidson and not forego-
ing his remaining two years of eligibility. . . . Finally,
the College Bowl community was shocked this week to
leam that Johnny “Disco” Edwards, the winningest
coach in intramural history, is retiring. Edwards, who
coached many legendary Guttersnipe and Plénk teams
in his four-year career, always attributed his success to
his ability to conquer last. Sources close to Edwards in-
dicate his retirement springs from a belief that later this
year he will graduate.

Next week: “Hurricane Bob” Manning: Myth or what?

Licensed
O8-GYN
Spedaiist

‘ Worried About
Being Pregnant?
We Care.

Free Pregnancy Testing Daily
(No appointment necessary)

For Answers And

Action On
e Abortion 8

py

= ve
AY

1351 Durwood Drive,.Charlotte, NC 28204
Hours 8 - 6 Mon. - Fri., 7-«'3:Sat.

- | THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

1]
