The Davidsonian Special Edition/Friday, December 2, 1983 3

Lab Problems Misunderstood

Credit Hours Essential To Implement Semesters

Malcolm Campbell

On November 8 “The faculty members voted over-
whelmingly to abandon a proposed credit-hours sys-
tem,” as reported by The Davidsonian. As a result, an
overwhelming majority of science faculty and majors
alike are upset at this recent vote. More than one fifth of
all those declaring a major have selected a science
major, while more than one quarter of Davidson’s facul-
ty are scientists. Ask around and you will find a general
feeling among science majors similar to the one I am
going to describe.

The first objection to the latest semester plan stems
from the fact that two classes of Humanities will receive
as much credit as three science courses which include
three labs. It seems clear that those outside scientific
fields have either forgotten their laboratory experiences
or have-never had a lab course (Chemistry 21 exluded,
for obvious reasons). For example, the Davidsonian
editors claim, “A science student may do a lot of work in
the lab, but this work cannot be compared to what a
Humanities student spends on a paper” (emphasis
added). Ignorance of the topic becomes apparent when
the editors imply that a science student may not work
work a lot in lab. Any student who has had a lab course

Any student who has had

a lab course knows that hard
work is not an option; it is
required to pass the course.

knows that hard work is not an option; it is required to
pass the course.

I would also like to qualify the vague quantity “a
lot”. In order to complete a laboratory assignment, a sci-
ence student must first complete from 30 minutes to sev-
eral hours of pre-lab work. Why? It is because some
chemicals used in labs are hazardous; skin irritants, for
example, cause sterility if absorbed through the skin,
blindness can result from vapors, and many carcinogens
ae used regularly as solvents. In order to be aware of
these dangers, students must research the chemical com-

Semester

Dr. Hallam Walker

I am glad to have the opportunity to comment on the
pedagogical concerns of some language teachers in re-
spect to the semester and trimester systems. First, let me
give a bit of history.

With the semester system in force prior to 1967, the
language requirement for the degree was 12 hours, or
four courses of three hours. Since most students entered
with language credits, they took several courses on inter-
mediate to advanced levels. At that time the whole cur-
riculum was much more structured than at present. In
1967 the requirement was reduced to completion of a
third level course, the equivalent of the present 20. Thus
a student could fulfill the language requirement with one
terfn’s course, as is the case now. Language laboratory
work was introduced to intensify study in basic courses,
yet there was a loss of program effectiveness without re- _
quired study at higher levels.

ponents of their experiments each week. Then, once the
weekly assigned lab day (or days) arrive(s), students can
be in lab from before two p.m. until around six. After
four hours in lab, the assignment is over for the first
week, right? Wrong. Now students must complete the
post-lab portion of the course. This requirement can vary
from a formal lab report (which takes as long to write as a
Humanities paper) or studying for a lab practical or final
exam.

The lab practical brings out another point. Lab
courses are often separate courses from the daily lecture
classes. The lecture course meets like the average class
with tests and final exams plus some require final pa-
pers, oral reports or final projects. In addition students
must attend a laboratory meeting which provides at least
three hours a week of additional instruction by profes-
sors. (Three contact hours a week of instruction is the
same amount of time that a normal lecture course re-
ceives. All other three-hour meetings receive full credit
under the semester system, though a lab would receive
none.) So as it stands, science students take a full load of
classes (4 or 5) plus one to three lab courses while receiv-
ing no credit for lab courses.

There also seems to be some confusion on the part of
the faculty as to what a credit-hour system implies. Clas-
sics professor Dirk French feels, “Credit hours are a neu-
tral equivalent,” while French professor Everett Jacobus
fears that credit hours are directly equated to student
commitment or the amount of work required. As defined
by an overwhelming majority of other colleges and uni-
versities on the semester system, the number of credit
hours reflects the amount of contact hours — the time the
student interacts with and is instructed by the professor.
So, if the average class meets three hours a week, the
course receives three credits. It does not seem unfair that
when science students spend at least three more hours a
week with their professor, the additional contact time
should be recognized. By giving one hour of credit to lab
courses, non-laboratory courses will not be penalized.
Lab credit merely recognizes the time of instruction by
science professors.

The phrase that reverberated throughout Chambers
last year was “percolation time”: “The semester system
will slow down the pace for students so they can con-
template the material for a better quality of education.”
Under the currently supported semester system, science
students will have to take five courses where up to three
of those five may be lab courses. Therefore, students

wind up taking eight courses which would actually pro-
hibit percolation time.

Proponents who boast “a class is a class” suggest that
the requirements of a science major be reduced. Again,
this is a simple solution based on incomplete facts. Since

My advice is to slow down.
If Davidson is not ready to

rush toward the semester
system, do not rush toward it.
Haste may hurt our

school in the long run.
SSS e————_—_—_——————xEEE

most Davidson science students want to go on to
graduate school, they must take a certain number of sci-
ence courses, GREs and MCATs are both required by
grad schools and test students over a large variety of
courses. Furthermore, each graduate department has its
own list of prerequisite undergrad courses. If the re-
quired course load for science majors were reduced, the
attractiveness of Davidson's science students would suf-
fer.

This decline of acceptance by graduate schools
brings me to my final concern. The decisions the faculty
voted on seem to change with the seasons. Last spring it
was semesters with credit hours. As the color of the
leaves changed this fall, so did the will of the majority of
faculty members. Currently, Davidson has a semester
system without credit hours. However, as Christmas ap-
proaches, the faculty is now debating whether to switch
to a semester system at all. | am afraid that this next vote
may get caught up in the Christmas rush. My advice is to
slow down. If Davidson is not ready to change to the
semester system, do not rush toward it. Haste may hurt
our school in the long run.

As a side note, I find it interesting that faculty meet-
ings and votes are held while labs are in session. This
means that many science professors are unable to leave
class in order to discuss and vote on propositions which
especially affect them.

Campbell is a senior biology major from Little Rock,
AR.

System Benefits Languages

In recent years we have tried to compensate for the
shorter period of study by requiring higher frequency of
practice through drill sessions and lab work. A truly in-
tensive program can be effective, but it demands con-
stant application by the student. The student with other
demanding courses, however, labors under a burden-
some schedule, hurrying from one task to another. I be-
lieve that a return to a semester system would relieve
some of the pressure. Here is how the French program
would function.

First keep in mind that the task of a language depart-
ment is twofold; a program seeks to develop basic lan-
guage skills in students and then to provide study of liter-
ature and culture through the language. The first job re-
quires much exposure to material, memorization and ab-
sorption, and répeated practice. If this can be done over
three semesters of basic course work, one and a half
years, it is superior to doing it in three term courses over
one academic year. An intensive program over a longer
period is most effective. We would have French |
through |! meet three times a week, plus two drill ses-

sions. French 20 would have three classes and at least
one drill session. Higher level courses would have three
classes or meet as seminars.

Eliminating our current headlong dash through short
terms would give more breathing and learning space. It
is a truism among professors that it is hard to get students
in upper-level work up to a point at which they can pro-
duce a major term paper. Ten weeks really is a short
time.

I have not touched on calendar considerations but
concentrated upon a program for teaching effectiveness.
I do not advocate a return to the old two-year require-
ment of language study but may note that students seem
to feel the need of work beyond 20, enrolling in good
numbers in courses numbered 40 and above. They want
to achieve real competence, just as we want them to. A
semester system gives us more opportunity to work to-
ward excellence.

Walker is a professor of French and chairman of the
French department.
