4 __Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

SGA Winter Elections To Be Held This Tuesday

Editor's note: Elections will be held next
Tuesday from 8:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. The

Davidsonian asked candidates to answe1

three questions: 1) What specific experi-
ences qualify you for this position? 2)
What do you hope to accomplish if
elected? 3) What do you consider the role
of the office for which you are running?
We printed all responses.

Duncan Fraser

1) I have worked for The Davidsonian
since last fall, primarily writing — as re-
porter, assistant news editor, and news
editor. I have continued writing this year
and have been becoming more involved
in the production end of the newspaper.
In high school | was assistant editor of
the paper and editor of the literary
magazine. Finally, | am familiar with the
students of Davidson, as they are with
me. I am active throughout the campus
and am aware of the opinions and per-
spectives many students hold. I think this
breadth and diversity is the most impor-
tant non-technical qualification for
editor.

2) If elected, I plan to continue improv-
ing the paper and moving it into the
mainstream of Davidson. I will broaden
the staff, which is vital to the paper’s suc-
cess, and continue weekly editorials.
Ann and David have-done a good job and
I want to continue their course, avoiding
stagnation. I hope to publish a newspaper

which appeals to a wide group of people
and accurately reflects Davidson Col-
lege. .

3) I see the Editor as one who builds, or-
ganizes, and inspires a staff, writes well-
informed, thoughtful editorials; and pub-
lishes a newspaper which informs, enter-
tains, and represents that college com-
munity as a whole.

The newspaper can be managed suc-

cessfully by one person; it has been done
in the past. I have no doubt in my ability
to manage a broad, diverse staff or pub-
lish the Davidsonian as sole editor. —
4) I am running for Editor because I want
the paper to grow under :active leader-
ship. Many people have urged me to run;
they know me and believe the newspaper
needs me. They, like most Davidson stu-
dents, want a strong paper which articu-
lates mainstream opinions on issues
ranging from women’s concerns to facul-
ty evaluations. I believe I am more than
qualified to work toward that end.

Y-SSC Officers

Beth Maczka
President

Chris Blake
Vice-President

Laeta Kalogridis
Treasurer
Lisa Thomas

Secretary

Editor’s Note: The Y-SSC positions are
uncontested.

The continuous goal of the Y-SSC is
to promote more effectively service ac-
tivities in the Davidson community. We

hope to establish more permanent lines
of communication between the College
and the town of Davidson. Through
closer ties with the community we can
better communicate its needs to the stu-
dents body.

In order to better coordinate campus
activities, we will establish regular com-
munication with service coordinators
from all student organizations. Further-
more, we will publish a bi-weekly news-
letter informing the campus of upcoming
service projects, ongoing Y-SSC pro-
grams, and opportunities for additional
projects. With these plans-in mind, the
current slate of officers hopes to continue
the progress made over the past year in
communicating the needs of the David-
son community. We look forward to
working closely with the entire commu-

nity.

NEW PERMANENT WAVE
HAIR DESIGNERS 1/2 OFF
STUDIO
237 Catawba Ave. HAIR CUT & STYLE
Cornelius $5.00 off
(In rear of the Southern (Male & Female)
Energy Bullding)

MON-SAT 10 AM Until
CHILOREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE

No Appointment Necessary —-$5-00 ca gan-s129 or ane ante

Ross Holt

And
David McGee

Peggy Pierotti

Ross has served as Managing Editor
of The Davidsonian since March 1983.
He has complete knowledge of the pro-
duction of the paper, including layout,
operation of the The Davidsonian’ s type-
setting equipment, as well as writing and
editing stories. As a member of the
paper’s Editorial Board, he has been in-
volved in the conceptualization of the
paper since the current editorship took
over.

David has worked as Assistant News
Editor since September 1983, a job
which has involved writing, editing, and
assigning news stories. He also held a re-
porting internship with The Sentinel,
Winston Salem NC’s afternoon daily.
This job required him to research and
write stories and meet a daily deadline as
well.

The Davidsonian is currently a very
strong newspaper, much stronger than it
was at this time a year ago. It has grown
in influence and, credibility, and if
elected we will seek to continue this
growth. We will build a strong, compe-
tent, and widely representative staff,
which will give us the ability to expand
and deepen our coverage of important is-
sues. We will open wider the lines of
communication between the paper and
campus organizations, to make our re-
porting more complete and accurate.
And, we will preserve the paper’s credi-
bility (by ensuring its appeal to the gen-
eral readership) so that the paper will
stand editorially with the strength and au-

The Davidsonian Editors

thority of its readership behind it. Being
current members of the editorial board,
we know the paper and its staff, and feel
we are more qualified to pursue these
goals.

The Davidsonian holds a unique pos-
ition on campus. It is a medium which
reaches the entire campus each week.
Because of this, the students place a spe-
cial trust in the people they choose as
editors. We feel the editors have the re-
sponsibility, then, of ensuring that the
paper |) informs the campus objectively
and accurately; 2) provides a forum in
which members of the community may
comment on issues of interest; 3) com-
ments editorially in the interest of the stu-
dents who elect its editors; and 4) edu-
cates and entertains its readership by in-
teresting and effective presentation of the
first three categories and by insightful
writing, reviewing, and commentary.

The editors affect this, of course, in
the way they cover, select, and edit
stories, and in the design and layout of
the paper. Having been closely involved
with the paper and with the editing pro-
cess, we feel we can best ensure the
paper’s continued growth.

Wildcat Handbook

Paul Coggins

And
Sarah Speed

Having worked in the Admissions
Office we. are interested in the ways
freshmen are introduced to Davidson. As
editors of the Wildcat Handbook we feel
that we can make a positive contribution
to the orientation process. The Han-
dbook is the freshman’s first glimpse of
the faces and names that will have an im-
pact on his next four years — hall coun-
selors, roomates, and (of course) future
dates. We want it to be packed with in-
formation which will give freshmen tips
on all facets of Davidson life. We feel it
should be clear and concise as well as a
trustworthy reference. At the same time,
we want it to be just as fresh and exciting
when its well-worn cover is opened fot

the fiftieth time as it was when it was
pulled from the mailbox.

Besides our creative impulses (Sarah
is an English major with experience in
writing original articles for publication),
we do know a little about putting the
book together. Paul has five years ex-
perience in editing and layout, working
with such firms as Delmar, Keys, and
Josten’s. Because of our familiarity with
the admissions staff and their proce-
dures, we will be able to work more ef-
ficiantly in securing photos and informa-
tion.

We both think the Wildcat Handbook
is an important tool not only for
freshmen, but for the entire campus com-
munity. We have many ideas of our own;
we are also eager for your input.

Right now, we want you to know that
we care. Dedication to this project will
be a pleasure for both of us. Please give
us your support next Tuesday, and we
know you'll enjoy the Handbook next
fall.
