Friday, November 4, 1983/The Davidsonian 13

OPINIONS

Reagan’s ‘Free World’ In Central America

Dr. Brian Shaw.

Currently on display in the Union Gallery is an
exhibition of revolutionary posters and other artwork
from Nicaragua. The exhibition was assembled by
David Craven and John Ryder, art historians at the State
University of New York at Courtland, and is scheduled
to appear at other campuses and galleries throughout the
South. This is an engaging and provoocative display.
Students and faculty alike would do well to reserve and
hour or two to view this artwork.

The attitude of Craven and Ryder toward their mate-
rials and towards the new society of Nicaragua is hopeful
and sympathetic — as well it should be. The program
notes which accompany the exhibition are unfeignedly
supportive of the Nicaraguan struggle for naitional self-
determination. Prominent sections of the notes trace the
course of Nicaraguan history from the first invasion by
the United States armed forces in 1912 to the present as-
saults on the country by contras funded and armed by the
United States. Craven and Ryder are concermed to pre-
sent this history to American viewers of the exhibit, for
the peculiar experience expressed in the posters is a cen-
tury of often brutal economic and political domination of
Nicaragua by the United States. To the casual viewer,
the posters might seem propagandistic and militantly de-
fensive. This quality, however, as the notes make clear
reflects not some unwonted paranoia on the part of the
Nicaraguans, but their very real fear that the United
States may soon act on its threats against their country.

These threats have been sharply escalated in recent
months by the Reagan administration. The Sandinistas,
who came to power in 1979 after a long and bloody
struggle to free Nicaragua from the rule of the American-
backed, dictator, Anastasio Somoza, are under seige. In
addition to economic sanctions and increasingly belli-
cose verbal abuse by the United States, the Nicaraguans
suffer almost daily terrorists attacks by bands of former
Somoza_ national guardsmen. These  counter-
revolutionaries, contras cross over into Nicaragua from
their sanctuaries in Costa Rica and Honduras to pillage,
murder and rape. They are armed and supplied by the
United States. Special targets of these roving terrorists
are teachers, health workers, and lay and clerical work-
ers of the Catholic Church who are active in raising the
standard of living of the Nicaraguan peasantry. During
the last few weeks the activities of the contras have ex-
panded to include aerial bombing and other violent
sabatoge of Nicaragua’s fragile economic infrastructure.
Bridges, roads, electric facilities, pipelines, and oil stor-
age tanks have been destroyed. Emboldened by their re-
cent success, the contras have threatened to destroy any
ships transporting oil to Nicaragua.

The contras have enjoyed not only weapons and ma-
terial support from the Reagan administration, but indi-
rect American military support as well. This summer U.
S. armed forces conducted joint exercises with the Hon-
durans off the coast of Nicaragua. Almost 20 American
naval ships, including two aircraft carriers and a
battleship, 140 warplanes and 16,500 personnel prac-
ticed mack bombing runs and a naval blockade of
Nicaragua. On land, about 4,000 American soldiers
took part in field maneuvers. These soldiers remain in
Honduras today. They are engaged in constructing a
substantial Honduran military infrastructure which in-
cludes extended military landing strips and naval facili-
ties.

All of this activity, needless to say, alarms the
Nicaraguans and increases their well-founded fear that
the United States is preparing and armed invasion of

their country. Their fears have certainly been intensified
by Reagan’s refusal to seek a diplomatic settlement to
the conflict and by Grenada. Like the Grenadans, the
Nicaraguans believe that the United States will hold up
the fig leaf of anti-communism to cover its naked use of
American military might to guarantee its sphere of spe-
cial interest in Latin America. What is likely to happen,
in fact, is that sooner or later a Nicaraguan army or
militia unit will follow a contra group in hot pursuit
across the Honduran border. American soldiers wander-
ing through the area will be shot, and the United States
will use the incident as a justification for launching a
“defensive” invasion of Nicaragua. In the Nicaraguan
view, the goal of the invasion would be no less than the
complete reversal of the political and social gains made
by the Nicaraguans since the revolution, and the
reinstatement of a military dictatorship more congenial
to U. S. interests.

The fears of the Nicaraguans should be our concern
as well. Since 1979 the Sandanistas have acted to im-
prove the welfare of the peasants and other formerly op-
pressed classes who make up the vast majority of the
population. In the words of Father Alvaro Arguello, the
representative of the National Association of Clerics to
the ruling Council of State, “For the first time in the his-
torical existence of our people...sectors are represented
which have historically been abandoned, marginalized,
disregarded and exploited in Nicaragua, which is to say
the popular sectors.” Furthermore, contrary to the alle-
gations of the Reagan administration, this improvement
has come about without any attempt by the government
to completely socialize the nation’s wealth. Roughly 80
percent of the arable land remains in private hands, as
does 75 percent of the nation’s productive capacity. The
consequence of these measures — taken in the face of
awesome destruction caused by the war against Somoza

and the continuing assaults and sanctions against
Nicaragua — is overwhelming popular support for the
Sandinista government.

(In contrast, the former American-supported dictator
treated the persons and possessions of his subjects as
convenient sources for his personal enrichment. Before
he was forced to flee the country , Somoza owned or con-
trolled dozens of cattle ranches and plantations, the Na-
tional Insurance Company, the national airline, and en-
tire shipping port on the Pacific coast. When he arrived
in Miami in July 1979, U. S. sources estimated
Somoza’s wealth at $900 million.)

Still, for all its accomplishments and popular sup-
port, the revolutionary society of Nicaragua is in grave
danger. A prolonged ‘and public Bay of Pigs is now in
progress, with little outcry against it by the American
public. The Reagan administration, typically intolerant
of attempts at genuine national self-determination within
its sphere of influence, and emboldened by this apathy
and by its recent “success” in Grenada, will almost cer-
tainly intensify its attacks on the people and government
of Nicaragua. The revolutionary society and culture of
Nicaragua have been badly misrepresented in this coun-
try by a hostile administraion and a compliant press. We
owe it to the Nicaraguans — and to ourselves — to hear
what these people have to say in their own voice. We
should avail ourselves now of the Nicaraguan artwork on
display in the Union Gallery. For if Reagan has his way,
for by this time next year there will be no art of an inde-
pendent Nicaragua, for that country will have been
forced once again into the ranks of the murderous des-
potisms which compromise the “free world” of Reagan’s
Central America.

Shaw is Mellon Assistant Professor of Political Science.

For Whom The Bells Toll

David Resnik

Time was made for slaves.

— John B. Buckstone
in Billy Taylor

As the ringing hit the air one morning, one schizop-
hrenic writer was heard screaming: _

“The Bells! The Bells! The Bells! They would not
stop ringing even when I covered my ears; I ran as far as I
could, but I could not escape them. I heard them in my
sleep; I saw them in my dreams. Ringing, ringing, ring-
ing, ringing until morning comes.”

I don’t like being constantly remi nded of the time,
but it’s getting harder for me to escape it ever since the
DCPC bells started ringing four times an hour. It was
okay when the Chambers bells rang twice an hour, but
these new bells are too much. I think about the time more
often now, and as a result, I spend less time actually
thinking about what I’m doing.

Every time the bells ring my class stops. Sometimes
the professor will pause in the middle of a lecture; some-
titnes students will look whimsically at each other or out
the window; almost everyone acknowledges the pre-
sence of time. .

Instead of waiting for the buzzer at the end of the
period, I wait for the halftime bell and the five-minute
warning bell (the one that rings at a quarter till the hour).
The five-minute warming bell is the worst of the two: as
soon as it rings students stop taking notes and professors

start thinking about their second cup of coffee in the fac-*

ulty lounge.

The real effect of all this ringing is that my time is
broken up into smaller blocks: I think of my life in fif-
teen-minute periods instead of fifty-minute interludes. I
spend more time waiting for the next event to happen be-
cause there are more moments when I am made aware of
time. And since I spend more time waiting, I have less
for work or play. As a result, my whole segment of time
becomes diminished when broken into parts.

Needless to say, the bells do have their good points.
You can use them to find your way home if you're lost on
the jogging trails. Also, the clock and the bells make the
Chambers lawn seem like London on a foggy evening.
And at least the bells aren't pre-recorded, yet; they
sound like genuine church bells.

With the war in Lebanon, the invasion of Grenada.
and self-selection at Davidson, one would think I could
find something more valuable to write about than time.
Well, I don’t think that time is trivial — it is a powerful
tool that shapes our lives — but an excessive attachment
to time leads to triviality. As we move in clockwork we
begin to think in clockwork.

I don’t want to move like a clock. I use time as a
yardstick to measure my life, but in doing so, I realize
that it limits me. I would like to pretend that my nows
last forever, that my whole life is one big day. but the
bells remind me that I’m getting older all the time. I can
laugh in the face of death, but time is always there to shut
me up. ;

Well. until the bells stop ringing I'll have to run
away before they shut me up..

Resnik is a junior philosophy major from Chapel Hill, N .
C. arid is Execiitive Editor of The Davidsonian.
