Consultants Make Humes Report

By DAVID RESNIK ’85
and MIKE TANTILLO ’85

The consulting team of Harold Mar-
tin, Marvin Levich, and Jed Rabb re-
cently released their evaluation of Da-
vidson’s Humanities program.

Their report concluded that the Da-
vidson Humanities program has a “tend-
ency to lead students to mistake superfi-
cial acquaintance with two thousand
years of history for a genuine under-
standing of any part of it.”

Vice President of Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermann believes one must choose
between “breadth versus depth” when
designing a Humanities program, and
“major units of history are coherent
within themselves.”

“A focus on depth would allow
more interdisciplinary action,” he said.

The report found that the program
“is only adventitiously interdiscipli-
nary,” and suggests “an enlargement of
the concept of the term humanities” to
include “economics, sociology, anthro-
pology, and science.”

The report also concluded that
“there appears to be a tendency not to
press the students except in the amount
of reading required as far as they should
and can be pressed.”

For example, they felt that “the
course does not deal adequately with
problems in writing common among
freshmen” and that “the burden of ac-
quiring background” should be “shifted
to the student so that lectures can” be
more “provocative.”

First year Director of Humanities
and Religion Professor Max Polley
would also like to “strengthen” the Eng-
lish program because Humanities does
not teach writing “as thoroughly as
{English] 21 or 22 should.”

Second year Director of Humanities
and English Professor Anthony Abbott
suggests that “‘a seminar might be creat-
ed to teach the Humes staff how to teach
writing better.”

The consultants also observed that
“the Humanities staff is now a young
faculty” who “are weary of committing
themselves to enterprises which in their
perception may imperil their chances
for promotion and tenure.”

Physics Professor Robert Manning
recognizes this problem: “If the admin-

stration doesn’t let it be known to
younger faculty members that the ad-
ministration will value their interdisci-
plinary work as much as disciplinary
work, then the Humanities program is in
a lot of trouble.”

‘The consultants also recommended
“training on the new Sloan Grant pro-
gram to effect some link between the
Humanities course and the ‘other’ end
of the curriculum, science and technol-
ogy.”

Zimmermann agrees: “The Sloan
Foundation feels that technology is a
way of life and thought . . . Humanities
can put technology into the proper so-
cial and humanistic perspective.”

Student Reaction

Senior Jack Smith, who has gone
through the entire Humanities program,
also feels that it may be “too superfi-
cial.” ,

“They [Humanities] touch on too
much and explain too little,” Smith
said. “For example, in the second year
they cover American Romanticism
(Poe, Melville, Hawthorne, Whittman,
etc.) in only two days.”

Sophomore John Malone, who is
currently enrolled in the program,
agrees: “We recently read a 300-page
novel and spent 50 minutes discussing
it.” He admits, however, that “they do
as good a job as they can” of surveying
Western civilization and “generalizing
some concepts.”

Smith also believes “the program
could and should be more interdiscipli-
nary” but he realizes “there is a time fac-
tor.” He thinks that if the program fo-
cused more on particular topics could be
made “more interdisciplinary.”

According to Malone, the interdis-
ciplinary aspect of Humanities is “now
erratic.”

“When they assigned Adam Smith,
that was our first economicss lecture in
two years,” he said.

Acting Philosophy Chairman Earl
MacCormac, who was recently appoint-
ed as head of the two year Humanities
program (see related article) “believes
deeply in the inter-disciplinary ap-
proach to education.” .

He also thinks the Humanities Pro-
gram can achieve “greater coherence”
by focusing more on “themes or prob-
lems.”

Kaylor sees the switch to semesters

as a good opportunity “to look at the Hu-
manities Program” but he thinks “we
have a good program,” however.

Polley also thinks the switch is a
good oppportunity but predicts that “it
would take a year to revise the Humani-
ties Program” if Davidson goes “in the
direction of the consultants report.”

Polley anticipates that any major re-
visions in Humanities would not be-
come effective until the 1984-85 school
year.
Last spring Zimmermann applied
for a grant from the Association of
American Colleges that pays for half of
the consultation fee for Humanities pro-
gram evaluators.

On 1 July 1982 he informed the Hu-
manities staff that the grant had been ac-
cepted.

The Association of American Col-
leges named Martin as the head of the
consultation team and selected Levich
and Rabb.

Martin is a professor of Humanities
at Trinity College. Levich is a professor
of Phiilosophy and Humanities at Prin-
ceton, and Rabb a professor of History
at Princeton and Editor of The Journal
of Interdisciplinary History.

The consultation team based their
report on our examination of documents
provided by the acting heads of the two
Humanities courses and visits to David-
son.

Manin attended Humanities 111
and 121 lectures and talked to faculty
during his first visit in September. He
returned with the entire consulting team
at the end of the first term, and they
talked to eight staff members. twc
groups of students (fifteen freshmen and
fourteen sophomores), and with the Lia-
son Committee appointed by Dr. Zim-
mermann.

Davidson established the Humani-
ties program in the 1962-63 school year.
Since then it has undergone only two
major revisions: one when the college
switched from semesters to trimesters
and another when Davidson increased
its enrollment from 1000 to 1350.

Consultants’ Recommendations

These recommendations are quoted
from the consultants’ report.

“1) We urge that any planning for a
change in the program give high priority
to the foreseeable problems of staffing
for the next ten years, to the inferences

Dr. David Kaylor

about the student population emerging
from the “Match” research of the Direc-
tor of Admissions, and to the changing
nature of scholarship itself in the vari-
ous disciplines associated with the
course.

*2) We think it entirely feasible that
the burden of acquiring “background”
be in good part shifted to the student so
that the lectures can become increasing-
ly provocative rather than principally
informative, thus permitting group dis-
cussion to spring directly from them.

“3) In view of what we regard as un-
warranted confidence among students
about their grasp of the development of
the ‘western tradition,” we argue for a
sharply decreased emphasis on
coverage as a central concern of the
course.

“4) We suggest that careful consid-

eration be given to two kinds of *broad-
ening : .
a) an enlargement of the concept of
the term ‘humanities’ sufficient to make
room for more serious attention
throughout to materials and disciplines
(economics, sociology, anthropology,
science) which deeply affect the ground
on which the ‘humanities,’ convention-
ally termed, develop:

“b) some inclusion. in the light of
modern times. of cultural traditions
which are not exclusively “western.”

5) From what we have heard about
it, we think some attention might be
paid to the possibility of drawing on the
new Sloan-grant program to effect some
link between the humanities course and
the ‘other’ end of the curriculum.
science and technology.”

(continued from page |)

_ A handbook given to all freshmen
concerning self-selection spelled out
these “minimum interest guidelines.”
To join an eating house, freshmen are
expected to: “1) eat at least three meals
at the house, 2) attend at least three so-
cial functions, 3) know a portion of the
house membership, and 4) know at least
one officer.” Similar but more extensive
requirments are expected of freshmen
who want to join a fraternity. For in-
stance, students should attend five so-
cial functions and know a “substantial

portion” of the house membership.

A statement issued by the Council
on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL)
in 1978 states that two premises form
the basis of self-selection: “a) that small
group eating and socializing is a desira-
ble agreement carried on through frater-
nities and eating clubs on Pattersor
Court; and b) that the final decision
about joining a particular group is the
student’s decision; the principle of self-
selection is fundamental.”

Concerning encouragements and
discouragements, the CCRL statement

says: “In the spirit of self-selection,
houses have the right to encourage but
not actively discourage
members, thereby establishing a strong
reciprocal relationship between fresh-
men and houses. Active participation by
the freshmen in the introduction to the
houses in the fall should guarantee intel-
ligent decisions regarding self-selec-
tion. An individual who feels he has
been actively discourged has the right of
appeal to the Supervisory. Committee.”

The self-selection system was in-
itiated in 1970 by the Trustees and the

potential _

President for a variety of reasons: the in-
fluence of the ’60s, the general decline
of the fraternity system, the financial
problems of some of the court houses,
and a general conceta for the many peo-
ple whom the fraternity system hurt.

Terry pointed out that the old system
hurt many people. At the time the sys-
tem was initiated, he said, no social al-
ternatives existed for someone who
failed to get into a fraternity. While he
agrees that the self-selection system
hurts people too, many more alterna-
tives are available to them now.

.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
