10. “Friday, March 18, 1983

The Davidsonian

~ FEATURES

AI Promotes Human Rights Awareness Month

By ELIZABETH KISS ’83

Human Rights Awareness Month.
five weeks of programs on global human
rights issues, got underway last week
with events focussing on Central Ameri-
ca and the Philippines and a letter-writ-
ing campaign commemorating Interna-
tional Women’s Day.

The Davidson chapter of Amnesty
International is organizing Human
Rights Awareness Month with support
from the Unon Speakers Committee,
APO Service Fraternity, and the
Women’s Concerns Committee.

Amnesty International, a worldwide
human rights group, has two major
goals: to free persons imprisoned for the
nonviolent expression of their beliefs,
and to abolish torture and the death pen-
alty.

On March 8, International Women’s
Day, members of the Women’s Con-
cerns Committee and Amnesty joined
other interested individuals in writing 70
letters protesting the imprionment of five
women. Each letter was addressed to an
official of the prisoner's government.

The women, who ranged in age from
20 to 45, were from Chile, Ethiopia,
South Africa, the Soviet Union, and
Taiwan. One was serving a | 2-year sen-
tence; one was committed to a psychia-
tric institute for an indefinite period;
three had disappeared. Their ‘‘crimes”

—Duck and Cover!

included engaging in social work, lobby-
ing to obtain Ukrainian reading materials
for schoolchildren, and giving a speech
on Human Rights Day.

Rona Weitz Visits

Human rights in Central America
formed the focus of a series of presen-
tations on March 9 by Rona Weitz,
Latin American Coordinator for the
Washington, D.C. office of Amnesty
International.

Weitz outlined the pattern of
human rights violations in three Cen-
tral American countries, El Salvador,
Nicaragua, and Guatemala, in a

speech attended by about 80 people.
Earlier Weitz spoke on El Salvador
and led discussions on Amnesty Inter-
national’s methodology, the San-
dinista Revolution in Nicaragua, and
the role of the church in the Central
American human rights struggle. She
also addressed U.S. human rights pol-
icy in Political Science Professor Louis
Ortmayer’s American Foreign Policy
class.

Weitz, whose love affair with Latin
America began at the age of 13, has
lived, studied, and done community
work in Mexico and Colombia. Stu-

dents plied her with questions on topics
ranging from the effectiveness of Am-
nesty’s work to Latin American litera-
ture.
Throughout her visit Weitz em-
phasized the value of Amnesty’s work
to free individual prisoners, even in a
seemingly hopeless context of wide-
spread human rights violations.
Philippines Focus

This week the focus shifted to the
Philippines, a country generally re-
garded as a model of Third World de-
mocracy. According to Amnesty Inter-
national, despite the lifting of martial law
in 1981, .non-violent opponents of
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos’s
government continue to be persecuted.
Church workers and trade unonists are
especially singled out for imprisonment,
torture, and extrajudicial execution.

Two speakers examined the current
Philippines situation on Monday night.
Dr. Norman Schul, a UNCC geography
professor who has conducted research in
the Philippines, analyzed the country’s
socio-economic structure. Filipino Dale
Fallar, a Charlotte schoolteacher who
left the Philippines a decade ago, shared
her personal reflections about the plight
of her people.

The Philippines campaign also in-
cluded an exhibit at Coffee and Cokes
and a petition and letter-writing cam-
paign Thursday night.

Dinner at the Atomic Cafe

By JOHN KROTCHKO °84

The scene: a park, somewhere in 1950s America.
On a grassy knoll a typical middle-class American
family has just sat down to picnic. Suddenly, in the
sky — an atomic flash! Up goes the tablecloth, plates
flying: down goes the family, huddled beneath. Duck
and cover!

Meanwhile, in Downtown, USA little Tommy
headed for school sees the flash, flies from his bicycle
and hits the curb. Duck and cover! The kids at school
know what to do: in perfect sync each disappears
under a desk. Duck and cover!

Next scene: Father emerges from the family fallout
shelter moments after the explosion to “take a look
around, see if it’s all right for us to clean up.” Save
some jolted furniture and a picture hanging.crooked
on the living room wall. America is safe. A nuclear
catastrophe is averted, thanks to smart civil defense!

Sound ludicrous? In the 1950s, government civil
defense programs made such scenes standard fare for
Americans in TV commercials and movie newsreels.
Recently, this material — unearthed foom the Na-
tional Archives — appeared in a brave new film, The
Atomic Café (1982). Coming to Love Auditorium
Wednesday, March 23 at 8:00 pm, the film chroni-
cles how America learned to start worrying and live
with the Bomb.

A dizzying media journey through the nuclear age,

The Atomic Café is horrifying, hilarious and ulti-
mately insane.

From the first, fateful flight of the Enola Gay over
Hiroshima to the H-bomb atmosphere tests of the
1960s, producers Jayne Loader, Kevin Rafferty, and
Pierce Rafferty have pieced together a wealth of U.S.
educational films, miliary training and civil defense
films, TV commercials, and newsreels. Dubbed with
a variety of pop and period music, an entertaining
bizarre collage emerges, following the reactions of a
nation to the monster it created.

Time and again it invades the public conscious-
ness. We see a giddy and victorious post-war Ameri-
ca, flexing its atomic muscle, sole guardian of the
Bomb — a gift of Providence, Pres. Truman ex-
plains. Animated U.S. Army films toy with the idea
of incinerating communists wholesale, while con-
gressmen advocate nuclear attacks on North Korea.

Even as the Soviet Union shocks the world with its
grasp of atomic capability, middle America flip-
pantly incorporates the Bomb into pop culture: songs
like “Atom Bomb Baby” by The Five Stars and Low-
ell Blanchard’s “Jesus Hits like an Atom Bomb” in-
vade the rock, gospel, and counfry charts. Bars in-
vent Atomic cocktails, and the The Atomic Café
opens for business in Arco, Idaho.

Cold War, Bikini atoll, red scare, spy trials—
moods and attitudes change, and government sends
its media ambassadors to the suburban doorstep.

Good citizens learn about civil defense, factory em-
ployees about not talking too loudly, and the public
about identifying communists.

The images continue — Nixon, Kruschev,
homemade radiation suits, and Boy Scout fallout
shelters — unfolding with black, nervous laughter in
an atomic psychoanalysis of the American scene.

Critics have questioned the approach of Loader,
Rafferty, and Rafferty on the extent to which they
culled and clipped over 200 hours of film (selected
from an initial quarry of 10,000 hours). The resulting
film presented two hours of carefully juxtaposed im-
ages as varied as the Rosenberg trial and Bert the Tur-
tle on seemingly one level. While the film has no nar-
ration whatsoever, viewers are not necessarily left
with no conclusions drawn. ;

Said Newsweek: “This impressionistic, subjective
method . . . assumes the audience’s foreknowledge
and sympathy: it’s preaching to the converted” (June
28, 1982). Was all America blind and stupid, lapping
up the public image of the Bomb and civil defense as
the government churned it out, while the real issues
continued to burgeon unnoticed?

For those of us whose memories don’t stretch so far
back, the film asks questions that stretch beyond old
bomb propaganda. What do people believe today?
What do the Powers that Be want good citizens to be-
lieve? Do we have perspective? It’s food for thought
— at The Atomic Café.

