The Davidsonian / Friday, May 6, 1983 3

Trustees Return for Spring Meeting

Dinner Honors Spencer

The Davidson Board of Trustees held
its spring meeting this morning from 10
a.m. to | p.m. in the Baxter Davidson
Room.

The Trustees considered the relation-
ship of the College to the Southern Con-
ference resulting from the recently
adopted change in the conference By-
laws requiring all conference members to
compete for the conference champion-
ship in football and basktball.

The Building and Grounds Commit-
tee and the Committee on Intramural and
Intercollegiate Physical Education and
Athletic Policy presented their joint rec

ommendation on the new sports com-
plex.

The Presidential Search Committee
presented a report on its progress to date.
The Personnel Policy Committee re-
ported in executive session on matters
concerning College President Samuel
Spencer’s retirement.

The Management, Investment, Fi-
nance, and Budget Committee recom-
mended guidelines for the motel at the in-
tersection of I-77 and Griffith Street pur-
chased some years ago.

The Trustees discussed implementa-
tion of the semester system, especially

the proposal to reduce the academic year
from thirty to twenty-eight weeks.
The Academic and Educational Poli-

- cles Committee also brought to the Board

for action in executive session recom-
mendations of candidates for tenure and
promotion.

Trustee sub-committees met last
night. The Trustees held their plenary
session at the beginning of the meeting.
SGA President Hunter Monroe, the Ad-
ministrative Liason, and Faculty Pro-
Tempor and Religion professor David
Kaylor were allowed to attend the ple-
nary session.

Presidential Search Continues

Committee reviews applicants from across country

By BOB LOPER

The Presidential Search Committee
is still reviewing the resumes of about
250 candidates for the presidency of
Davidson College.

Because the process is so time-con-
suming and necessarily cautious, there is
little chance that they will narrow the
field quickly, said Presidential Search
Committee Chair-
man Ben T. Craig.
However, the com-
mittee hopes to rec-
ommend a _ candi-
date to the Board of
Trustees by July 1.

Ben T. Craig At present, the
applications and resumes, which have

been submitted from across the country,
are being reviewed by the appointed
committees of Trustees, faculty, and stu-
dents. These committees will reduce the
number of applicants, but not to any par-
ticular number. .
Eventually, they will invite certain
outstanding candidates to campus for in-
terviews. Though the committee hopes

to make its final choice by July 1, the re- |

tirement date of current president Samuel
Spencer, Craig stresses that the commit-
tee does not feel especially bound by
time constraints. This is simply because
they want to be certain that they have
chosen “the right man for the job.”
There are no definite prerequisites for
the office, and the committee is consider-
ing many diverse and important qualifi-

cations. Among these are scholarly repu-
tation, administrative experience, and
business acumen.

If the selection process extends
beyond July 1, Professor Emeritus of
History Frontis Johnston will serve as in-
terim president until the new president
can begin work. Even if the committee
does announce its decision by July 1,
though, it appears that Johnston will
serve for atime while the future president
balances his affairs and prepares to move
to Davidson.

Meanwhile, the selection process
continues slowly but steadily and is sur-
rounded by the strictest confidentiality.
The committee still receives several
nominations each week and has placed
no deadline on applications.

The Trustees then held their execu-
tive session, and all non-Trustees except
Spencer were required to leave.

Dinner Honors Spencer

The Trustees honored Samuel and
Ava Spencer at a dinner last night in the
Commons. More than 125 current and
former trustees and their spouses at-
tended.

Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk
"31, Trustee Warner Hall °57, Walter
Lingle ’28, and Chairman of the Board of
Trustees Fred Stair ’39 spoke at the meet-
ing.

Honor Cases

Dean of Students Will Terry has an-
nounced Honor Council and Code of Re-
sponsibility cases for Winter term and
part of Spring term.

The Dean handled one stealing case
with a sanction of indefinite suspension.

The Dean ruled on two cheating cases.
One case resulted in a one term suspen-
sion. The other case resulted in a student
forfieting a course because of the special
nature of the violation and the concern of
the instructor.

The Honor Council handled one cheat-
ing case with a sanction of two terms’
suspension. .

The Honor Council also heard seven
stealing cases related to fraternity road
trips. The defendants were issued cen-
sures and the Honor Council announced
that furture cases would recieve more se-
vere punishments.

The Council heard nine Code of Re-
sponsibility cases, six by the Dean and
three by the Honor Council. The sanc-
tions for these ranged from censure to in-
definite suspension.

350 Seniors To Graduate At Commencement

Davidson College will confer de-
grees on nearly 350 graduating seniors at
the College’s annual commencement
exercises at 10:15 a.m. May 22 on the
front campus.

Honorary doctor of laws degrees will
be presented to Edward J. Mack, retired
executive vice president of Burlington
Industries, and Dr. Jay M. Robinson,
superintendent of the Charlotte-
Mecklenburg schools.

Several awards also will be pre-
sented, including first and second honors
among the graduating class and two
Algernon Sydney Sullivan awards, one
to a member of the senior class and one to
a person outside the student body. Estab-
lished in 1926 by the New York Southern
Society, the Sullivan awards recognize
fine spiritual qualities applied practically
to daily living.

The other activities will begin with an
ROTC commissioning ceremony at 2:45
p.m. May 21 in Hodson Hall. Nine
graduates are expected to be commis-
sioned as second lieutenants in the U.S.
Army during the ceremony. The speaker
will be Lieutenant General Harry A.

Last year’s graduating class

Griffith, director of the Defense Nuclear
Agency.

A baccalaureate service will be held
in Davidson College Presbyterian
Church at 6 p.m. May 21. Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry will deliver the sermon,
and there will be performances by the
Davidson College Concert Choir and the
Davidson College Wind Ensemble.

Following the baccalaureate, David-
son College President and Mrs. Samuel
Spencer will host a supper for graduating
seniors and their families in Vail Com-
mons. Admission to the supper is by tick-
et only.

The Davidson College Concert Choir
will present a concert at 8:30 p.m. May
21 in Love Auditorium. The concert is a
regular feature of the night before com-
mencement, and admission is free to the
public.

Both honorary degree recipients have
had distinguished careers. Mack is a
1937 Davidson graduate who went on to

earn a Harvard MBA. After five years of |

military service and experience with two
financial firms, he joined Burlington in-
dustries in 1948 as head of systems and
internal auditing.

Mack spent three years as chief finan-

File photo

cial officer of Dan River Mills 1952-55,
then rejoined Burlington to serve in a va-
riety of financial and international ad-
ministrative areas until he retired in
1981. He now works as a consultant.

Mack was formerly the chairman of
the board of trustees of St. Andrews Pre-
sbyterian College, and serves on the
board of visitors for both Davidson Col-
lege and the Duke University Graduate
School of Business. He is an elder of
First Presbyterian Church in
Greensboro, and has been active with the
Boy Scouts of America. He is a native of
Mooresville.

Robinson, also a native North Caroli-
nian, comes from the tiny town of Ban-
dana in Mitchell County. A graduate of
Appalachian State University, he holds
the master’s degree from UNC and the
doctorate from Duke University.

Robinson served for 12 years as a
teacher and principal in Concord schools
before spending two years as assistant
superintendent and 12 years as superin-
tendent of Cabarrus County Schools. He
became superintendent of Charlotte-
Mecklenburg Schools in 1977.

