2 Friday, April 8, 1983/The Davidsonian

NEWS SUMMARY -

C. Shaw Smith et al to Conjure in Love

C. Shaw Smith’s magic show will roll into Davidson for a benefit perfor-
mance marking Smith’s retirement as director of the Davidson College union.

The “Saucy Sorcery” begins at 3 p.m. Saturday, April 16, in Love Au-
ditorium. Smith describes it as ‘‘an afternoon of tacky talk and tantalizing tric-
kery.”

“It’s areal homecoming for me,” Smith said. “Over the years we have done a
number of shows on campus, at Montreat and at alumni meetings, but this is the
big one and a very special one for us.”

During the early. years Smith’s wife, Nancy, and several of their five chil-
dren took part in the performances. For example, in 1969 all seven Smith’s did
14 shows in 14 days for soldiers at U.S. Army bases in Germany and Italy. For
this performance, Smith will be joined by Nancy, three of their children, a son-
in-law, and two grandchildren.

Tickets are $4 for adults and $2 for students and children. Proceeds from the
performance will benefit the Artworks, a non-profit school in Davicson that of-
fers classes in dance, drama, music and painting for children and adults.

Student Recitals Planned For Spring

The Davidson College music department will host its annual student music
recitals April 10 through May 7.

The student solo recitals are free and open to the public. The recital schedule
is as follows:

April 10: Organ recital by junior Jane Redd at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall of
the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

April 20: Trombone recital by junior Daniel Metzel and trumpet recital by
sophomore Hank van Deventer at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College
Union.

April 24: Organ recital by senior Neal Biggers at 3:30 p.m. in the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church.

April 27: Piano recitals by senior Derek Harbin and sophomore Anne Lof-
quist at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

May 1: Trumpet recital by senior Jon Lawry at 8:15 p.m. in the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church.

May 3: Voice recital by senior soprano Cynthia Clark at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson
Hall.

May 4: Piano recital by junior Mary Fant at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

May 5: Voice recitals by seniors Joyce Robinson, mezzo-soprano and
Samuel! Sommers, baritone, at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

May 7: Piano recital by sophomore Laura McDonald at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson
Hall. te

Govt. Proposes To Relieve Schools of Draft-aid ‘Police’
Duties

(CPS) The U.S Department of Education may relieve male students of the need
to document that they have registered for the draft in order to get federal finan-
cial aid.

At a congressional hearing last week, Undersecretary of Education Gary
Jones said the department may change the controversial proposed regulation,
and change its effective date from July 1, 1983 to February |, 1984.

Under the new regulation, men would still have to declare whether or not
they had registered, but they wouldn’t have to “verify” their registration in order
to get aid.

The changes, Jones told the House postsecondary education subcommittee,
“will reduce substantially the administrative burden that colleges and schools
believed was inherent in our proposed rule.”

Congress passed a law last year requiring men to show proof of military reg-
istration when they applied for federal student aid. The Department of Education
has been struggling to draw up regulations to implement the law.

The Opvideonian Is pulichedFridaye during the eonoo! vaer by the students of Devideon College.

The Devidsonian, Box 218, Devideon, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 682-
2000 ont. 248 ened 949, Orfoes located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost
$12 per veer. . Advertising rates available on request. Second

clase postage peid at Devideon, North

Duncan Fraser, News Editor
Thurston Hatcher, Features Editor
Barry Elledge, Opinions Editor

Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Anderson Scott, Photography Editor
Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor

Jeff Mann, Associate Editor
* Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

Students Attend Forensic Conference In Cleveland

Two Davidson College students took part in the recent national conference of
Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa Alpha, the national honorary forensic association,
at John Carroll University in Cleveland, Ohio.

Elizabeth Brooks of Asheville and Valerie Hinton of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
were among 400 students from more than 40 states participating in the confer-
ence, which included events in many categories of public speaking and debate.
Brooks and Hinton took part in dramatic interpretation, duo interpretation, inter-
pretive prose and interpretivwe poetry.

It was the first national-level competition for the two students, who are both
sophomores at Davidson.

The students’ faculty advisor, speech professor Jean Cornell, who also made
the trip, was elected to the national board of Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa Alpha.
Cornell has been a member of the Davidson College faculty since 1971.

In addition to her public speaking activities, Brooks has been active with the
sailing team and with WDAV, Davidson's 20,000-watt classical music FM
radio station. She is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Jerrold Lee Brooks of 5 Ballan-
tree Drive in Asheville.

Hinton is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Hinton of 5260 N.E. 15th -
Avenue, Fort Lauderdale.

Degree May Be Worth As Much As A Million

(CPS) College graduates earn about 40 percent more over a lifetime than non-
grads, but men continue to earn about twice as much as women regardless of
educational attainment, a new Census Bureau study shows.

Male college grads can expect to earn from $1.2 to $2.75 million over a
lifetime, according to the study, while male high school grads will take in only
$860,000 to $1.87 million.

Women, on the other hand, will make from $520,000 to $1.2 million if they
have college degrees, and between $380,000 and $800,000 with only high
school diplomas, the study reports.

Delos String Quartet To Perform

The Delos String Quartet will perform April 12 at-8:15 P.M. in Love Au-
ditorium. The program will include works by Mozart, Shostakovich, and Beeth-
oven.

The Delos String Quartet, winner of the 1981 Colmar International Quartet
Competition in France, will conclude Davidson College’s chamber music
series.

The members are violinist Daniel Rouslin, a graduate of the Oberlin Conser-
vatory; violinist Jan Baty, who has studied at Eastman, Yale, and the Juilliard
School; violist Barbara Westphal, trained as a violinist with Broadus Erle and It- .
zhak Perlman and as a violist with the Guarneri Quartet’s Michael! Tree; and cel-
list Kevin Plunkett, who studied at the Peabody Conservatory, the New England
Conservatory, University of Southern California and Northern Illinois Univer-
sity, where he received his master of fine arts degree in 1979.

The visit is sponsored by the Davidson College Union Co-Curricular Coun-
cil and open to the public without charge.

83-84 Honor Council Members Elected

Honor Council elections were completed Thursday. Results are:

Senior Honor Council —- Lindsey Rader, Tom Walker, Brad Uline.

Junior Honor Council — Murray Simpson, Ed Henderson, Shep Robinson,
Thomas Evans.

Sophomore Honor Council — Rob Bradford, Sayres Rudy.

Review Board — William Stroud, Meg Surratt.

Student Conduct Council — Kathleen Huff.

Devense Advisor — Rachel Brown and Matt Merrill.

Council on Campus and Religious Life — Sam Hay, T. Hartley Hall.

News Staff: Dan Voorhis, Assistant News Editor; Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News
Editor; Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford, Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Hol-
land, John Ruppenthal, Mike Tantillo

Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jon Glance, Bob Finch,
John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks, Matt Morris, Tracy
Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Neil Cooksey, Angelique Foster, Ann Hunter, Peggy Pierotti
Business Staff: David McCurry, Kurt Henjes, William White

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, Jim Morgan,
