(continued from page 8)

ing to outgoing president Lee McCormick, the coed
eating house costs members $385 per term, with $35 of
that going into the social fund.

McCormick said that in addition to the usual parties
this spring, PAX will hold a seafood dinner for new
members after self-selection has been completed and
will invite new members along on a beach trip as well.

McCormick outlined two sentiments at PAX re-
garding the self-selection system. He said that while
most feel the system should remain intact, “there is a
feeling that, when you have a pool of strong freshmen
who have made an effort to get to know house
members, it is unfortunate” that some of these people
can be cut out or put on a waiting list due to someone
who perhaps has not made as great an effort. However,
he emphasized, PAX neither actively nor passively
discourages anyone.

At Rusk House, new officers have also been elect-
ed. They are: Sherri Lind, President; Atondra Will-
iams, Vice-President; Beth Findlay, Treasurer: Ann
Mitchell, Secretary; Lynn Folcher, kitchen manager;
Meg Barron, kitchen assistant; Meg McAm, social
chairman; Amy Ashworth, social assistant; and Lind-
sey Rader, House Manager. According to President
Lind, eating at Rusk costs its members $385 per term,

The Rusk drawing room. ' by Anderson Scott

Lind said that Rusk attempted to “hit all the fresh-
man girls” simply to make them aware of the house,
and then they tried to invite those who showed interest
for meals. Lind also characterized Rusk’s social pro-
gram as “extensive.” She said it offered both closed
and open parties, mixers, band parties, and the like, as
well as service projects.

Lind noted that although “Rusk does not advocate
discouragement,”. the prevailing attitude: there about
self-selection was that the “rules should be written

Kappa Alpha, said treasurer Walter Dean, has not
yet elected next year’s officers. The current officers
are, in addition to Dean, Number 1, (President) Cha-
rles Hasty; Number 2 (Vice President) Ellis Tinsley,
and Number 3 (Secretary) Jim Crowe. According to
Dean, KA is “stable finanically.” Membership costs
$410 per term, $110 of which is a social fee. In addi-
tion, pledges must pay a pledge fee to the national or-
ganiztion of $85.

‘KAs stop io chat

Dean noted that KA members hold “a lot of leader-
ship positions on campus,” and are highly active in
intramurals. He characterized the fraternity as “eighty
gentlemen in a close-knit fraternity atmosphere” which
emphasizes committment to KA, to the chapter, and to

of which $50 is a social fee.

down as it occurs now.”

the college as a whole.

Computers

Finally, Twenty Sloan Summer Fel-
lowships will be established for faculty
members ready to modify existing
courses or to plan for new courses in the
humanities and social sciences.

Burnett said that the deadline for
faculty proposals for fellowships is Feb.
14. Burnett and the Advisory Commit-
tee will award the fellowships with the
approval of President Spencer and Dean
of Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zim-
mermann.

Sloan Advisory Committee
members are careful to point out that the
program aims at enriching social scien-
ces and humanities with applied math
techniques and not at developing pure
math or science applications. Burnett
said, “We’re not trying to make com-

" puter programmers or computers scient-
ists here. Sloan is for mainline faculty
and students in the social sciences and
humanities. The program may lead to
the modification of existing courses or
to the develpment of whole new

courses, but it will all be done ona level

appropriate to the students and faculty.”

Philosophy Department Chairman
Earl MacCormac echoed the same con-
cern. “The main thrust is to retrain fac-
ulty, not to make engineers out of [stu-
dents].”” MacCormac went on to express
faith that the trained liberal arts student
will succeed in all fields, including
technical ones — “Liberal arts students
will make the best engineers because
they understand the critical problems of
man, but they will only be able to com-
pete with students from large universi-
ties if they have the technical ability to
deal with problems. Students ina liberal
arts college know what it means to be
human, what it means to be in nature,
what it means to be in society. What
they need is not only the language but
the technical understanding to deal with
important problems.”

MacCormac cited imagination in
modeling, limits in modeling, and alter-
native modeling methods as particularly
significant topics to liberal arts educa-
tion to be explored in the Sloan pro-
gram.

For my Ski ‘nstructor—
There are so very. many

times

I stop and think of vou

And ot the very special things
You often say and do.

And there are just as manv

times

I’ve wished that I could show
Your fnendship means much

more to me

Than you can ever know.

With love—
Your Bitch (No)

Assistant Political Science Profes-
sor Mary Thornberry pointed to the in-
creasingly technical nature of social
science literature as an indication of the
need for faculty to retrain. “There are a
good number of faculty members here
who have some training in methodology
or statistics, but who nevertheless don’t
have the mathematical knowledge to
keep up in their fields, much less be in-
novative in their areas, without rtraining
in mathematical and statistical uses.

“The Sloan program will be crucial
in terms of our own research and our
own ability to understand and translate
for our students. We need more train-
ing.”

Thornberry said that the introduc-
tion of new models and new ways of
thinking to the faculty will have exten-
sive long-range benefits “in terms of the

kinds of courses we teach, the types of *

research we do, and particularly in gen-
erating new communication among de-
partments.”

Sentiment among the general facul-
ty toward the program seems to be very
positive. MacCormac said, “We were
very excited to win this grant because

we won in the big leagues. I am pleased
with what our proposal looks like, and I
think that there is general excitement
among the faculty about this.”

Thornberry said, “I think that we are
getting a lot of enthusiasm for this pro-
gram because we are in the unique situa-
tion of being able to stay on the David-
son campus and use the Davidson com-
puter.”

Brockway, just back from the New
York conference, bubbled enthusiasm.
“I was really pleased with what David-
son is doing. It’s a sense of excitement,
nothing short of that. It’s really a very,
very alive feeling.”

Advisory Committee members ex-
press optimism that the program will
make big strides in allowing the David-
son student exposure to quantitative me-
thods. Brockway firmly stated, “There
can’t be any doubt about the fact that the
education level of the student who is
graduated from here in four years is go-
ing to be raised by this kind of effort.”

MacCormac spoke similarly, say-
ing, ““There’s going to be a higher level
of academic work here at Davidson be-
cause of this program. It’s these kinds of
programs which continue to make Da-
vidson a different institution.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983

The Davidsonian offers a type-
setting service at reasonable
rates. If you need any flyers, bro-
chures, invitations, newsletters,
or any other form of typeset-
ting, call 892-2000 extension 148
or 149 for more information.

