Ticket Policy Revised.

‘Raising hell’ends seats behind opponent bench

By JEFFREY MANN ’84

Students may no longer get blocks
of more than six for seats behind the op-
posing team’s bench for basketball
games at the Charlotte Coliseum. Dean
of Students Will Terry said this step was
taken because students were “raising
hell and acting bush-league.”

The Board of Trustees discussed
students’ behavior at the Notre Dame
game when they were here last week to
discuss the search for a new College
president (See related news article). Ac-
cording to Terry, one Trustee said, “Af-
ter seeing Davidson students at the No-
tre Dame game, I don’t see why we

Trustees

Students, faculty,

BY DUNCAN FRASER ’86

The Davidson Board of Trustees
held separate meetings last Friday, Jan-
uary 7, with students, administrators
and faculty to hear various opinions
concerning the selection of a new col-
lege president.

President Samuel Spencer an-
nounced on December 7, 1982, his re-
tirement from office effective July 1,
1983. Spencer will become President of
the Virginia Foundation for Independ-
ent Colleges- (VFIC), a fund-raising
group for fourteen private colleges in
Virginia.

The Board of Trustees will use the
opinions as guidance in the selection
process of the new president. The Da-
vidson Constitution requires that Trus-
tees “. . . have consultations with facul-
ty, students and the Administrative staff
in carrying out their Committee func-
tion.”

Faculty, administrators, and stu-
dents all agreed that the new President
must have a balance of campus involve-
ment and outside fundraising. Like-
wise, all groups want a President who
will continue in the basic tradition of the
College and will be able to guide it
through the 1980’s.

A group of ten Trustees met with

should listen to them in looking for a
new president.” Terry declined to iden-
tify the trustee, other than to say he was
on the Executive Committee.

College President Sam Spencer be-
came concerned at the Davidson — Fur-
man game on December 16 about stu-
dents’ behavior behind the bench. “Ap-
parently they were not only trying to
drown out the coach’s instructions to his
team during time-outs, but they were
shouting obscenities as well,” he said.

Spencer wrote a memo to Terry,
Wildcat Club Director Sandy Carnegie,
and Athletic Director Ed Farrell asking

what could be done. Carnegie decided
to prohibit students from that area. SGA
President Tim Johnston met with Presi-
dent Spencer and worked out the com-
promise of restricting large blocks.

Carnegie said they have not set poli-
cy for next year’s games, but were con-
sidering reserving the section behind the
Opposing team’s bench for the fans of
that team. “We’ll be glad to talk with
students before we set the policy,” he
said.

Terry said no fines or disciplinary
proceedings Were contemplated for the
students involved.

Meet Groups

administrators voice opinions

about 30 students in an open meeting in
Chambers Gallery for just over an hour.
Small groups of Trustees also met with
the Faculty and the Administrative staff
in the Faculty Lounge and the Rare
Book Room, respectively. Representa-
tives of campus minority and women’s
groups urged that the new president be
committed to minority concerns.

Likewise, some students seriously
questioned the constitutional require-
ment that the President be a committed
Christian, specifically a member of the
Presbyterian church of the United
States. Several trustees responded that
Christian committment was viewed by
the Board as an integral part of David-
son. Neither the faculty or staff ex-
pressed any problems with this part of
the Constitution.

The faculty discussed the selection
process itself and some worried that the
push for an immediate choice might
lower standards.

Some professors questioned allow-
ing a student committee to interview
candidates, but most of the faculty
agreed that student participation would
not hinder the selection process.

More importantly, the faculty was
concerned with continuing in an inter-
national focus and maintaining the fi-
nancial strength of the College.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

The faculty felt so strongly that it
suggested that the President come from
a business rather than academic back-
ground. On a show of hands, approxi-
mately 85 percent of the faculty agreed
with this view. One faculty member
suggested a President who is a “fund-
raiser with a vision, who sees a relation-
ship between the present and future of
Davidson's students.”

Finally, the faculty stressed its con-
cerns over the transition period once a
president is chosen.

Meanwhile the administrative staff
met and, contrary to the faculty, re-
quested an academician, because they
felt it was necessary by precedence.
Several members of the administration
asked for “. . . an accessible, academi-
cian / churchman who is familiar with
modern management and can raise mo-
ney.”

Financial consideration was also
important to the staff as many see the
need for a “first-class professional man-
ager.” However, scholarship should be
the first criterion.

The Board will now work through
committees to either find a new presi-
dent immediately or appoint an interim
president until a permanent choice can
be found.

News Shorts___-

Q &C Elections
Postponed

By TIM MCGAUGHEY ’83

The Student Government Associa-
tion Senate voted unanimously to re-
schedule elections for the Quips and
Cranks Editor until the fourth Tuesday
of Spring Term.

Mark Oldenburg, Chancellor of the
SGA, said that the SGA by-laws have
been amended to provide for a spring
election for the yearbook editor. Filing
date for candidates is the third Tuesday
of spring and the election will follow the
next week. This student election will
coincide with SGA elections for Presi-
dent and Vice-president.

Yearbook Editor Jim Reese went
before the Media Board and requested
the change. The postponement is neces-
sary to better fit their year-long sche-
dule. This change postpones editor elec-
tions until after certain yearbook dead-
lines have passed. Thus, students will
have greater opportunity to judge the ef-
forts of those candidates for Quips and
Cranks editor.

Alumni Recital
Slated

DAVIDSON -- William Aitken, or-
ganist and choirmaster at Trinity Pres-
byterian Church and Congregation
Shaare Emeth in St. Louis, Mo., will be
featured in an alumni recital and vesper
concert at 9 p.m. January 16 at David-
son College Presbyterian Church.

The program will include works by
Leo. Sowerby, Louis Claude D’Aquin,
Henri Mulet, J.S. Bach, Franz Schmidt,
Charles Tournemire and Cesar Franck.

Aitken was graduated from David-
son in 1966, and went on to earn the
master of sacred music degree from
Union Theological Seminary in New
York.

He is founder and director of “Bach-
freunde,” a series of concerts sponsored
jointly by Trinity Church and the St.
Louis Conservatory for the performance
of cantatas and chamber music of J.S.
Bach. In addition, he serves on the ex-
ecutive committee of the St. Louis
chapter of the American Guild of Orga-
nists, and is immediate past president of
the New Music Circle of St. Louts.

Aitken recently served as vice presi-
dent of the Friends of the University
City Library, editing a newsletter and
helping to build a collection of musical
scores, He directs an extensive program
of music at both the church and the tem-
ple, and maintains a full schedule of pri-
vate students in piano and organ.

The performance, which is free to
the public, also will be broadcast live on
the Davidson College radio station,
WDAYVN, at 89.9 FM.
