8 Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian

Tom Franz
G, 6-5, 170, Glenview, Il.

More than any other player, Franz may well be the
key to Davidson’s potential for success early in the sea-
son. Franz will most often accompany freshmen Cary]
Dawson and Chris Heineman and sophomore Pepper
Bego (who did not see a great deal of playing time last
year) in the backcourt. Franz, a great student of the game
of basketball, will often have to take control of the back-
court game and provide a steadying hand. It’s a big job,
but onw which he accepts readily, saying, “Because of
inexperience, we will need direction this year. Hope-
fully, Kenny Wilson and I will be able to give that direc-
tion.”

Franz himself is not nearly so inexperienced as many
of his teammates. He started five games last season and
played in 18 others. He averaged 8.8 minutes per game
and dished out a career-high 18 assists. He’s lettered
three times.

Kenny Wilson
F, 6-4, 215, Fayetteville, NC

Last year, some of the people could stop Kenny Wil-
son some of the time. This year, if he plays up to his ex-
pectations, no one else will be able to stop him any of the
time. Against Penn earlier this year he was canning 12-
footers with three men covering him. Against Wofford
he was 8 of 9 from the field and scored 21 of 25 points —
all in the second half. “I always have to play agressively
and look to score,” Wilson says, “I intend to keep doing

that.” At the same time, Wilson is caught in the catch-22 —

of needing to take over as team leader and yet not
dominating so much as to break down teamwork.

Wilson averaged 17.4 ppg as a junior en route to his
1,063rd career point, ranking him 19th on Davidson’s
all-time scoring list. In addition, he shot .558 from the
field and averaged 5.4 boards per game. He was first
team All-Conference, bettering his sophomore honora-
ble mention status. Barring disaster, he should go on to
ever greater laurels this year.

On court, KW is a tenacious, relentless defender (he
had 26 steals and seven blocked shots). He is an equally
ferocious, bruising scorer who has an uncanny knack for
getting the ball into the basket. When Kenny Wilson
finishes his basketball career in March, he should be sad-
dened by only the fact that he’s played in North Carolina
— overshadowed by college basketball greats Sydney
Lowe, Sam Perkins, Michael Jordan, and others. He
may not be their equal in talent, but is their superior in
heart.

Frank Johnson
G, 6-3, 185, Charlotte

Probably the easiest way for Frank Johnson to have
coped with frustration in his first two years at Davidson
would have been for him to just give up and quit. He had
to sit out his sophomore year due to NCAA transfer
rules. Last year he didn’t play as often as he might have
liked because of the four seniors and Kenny Wilson.
Daddy J has not gotten frustrated, though. Rather,
Coach Hussey points out, “Frank has worked hard in the
last two years to improve his skills. He has worked espe-
cially hard to improve his strength and in learning to play
with more intensity and consistency.

“If Johnson could put all this together and play with
ease in the early going, he could play a vital role for the
Wildcats. His excellent jumping ability makes him a dis-

tinct threat as a perimeter-shooting zone-breaker. He

played in 19 games last year.

Pepper Bego
G, 6-1, 172, Springfield, OH
Although Pepper Bego was hindered by a nagging
ankle injury last year, he still managed to log more play-
ing time than any other freshman last year as he played in

25 games. The best of those was a 14-point effort against _

VMI. Bego, an adroit defensive player who clamps
down on big men with the ball inside well, is second to

Introducing the 1983

~e
7

Erskine
U. of South
CITADEL

Davidson 7:30
Davidson 7:30
Charleston, SC 7:30

Milwaukee Classic Milwaukee, WI 6 or 9
FURMAN Greenville, SC 7:30
South Carolina Charlotte 7:00
UNCC Charlotte 7:30
FURMAN Davidson 7:30

EAST TENNESSEE Johnson City, TN —7:30
UT-CHATTANOOGA Chattanooga, TN 7:30
CITADEL Davidson 7:30
Notre Dame South Bend, IN 8:00
VMI Davidson 3:30

Kenny Wilson among returnees in steals.

Bego approaches his sophomore season realistically:
“‘We’re young and will make mistakes. But I think we
can learn and can rebound quickly because of our
youth.” Bego will have to assume some leadership re-
sponsibilities in the backcourt this season — according
to Hussey, “He will be counted on to lead our backcourt
this year.” That shouldn’t be a problem for Pepper if he
can play as he did in high school, where he was an As-
sociated Press All-Ohio selection as he averaged 27 ppg.

Gerry Born
F, 6-7, 210, Ringgold, GA

It is not uncommon to see Gerry Born spattered with
bruises, cuts, and scrapes. His rampaging, aggressive
style earns him these blemishes. Born has an excellent
nose for the ball, is a strong defender, and, according to
Hussey, “He may be our best offensive rebounder.”
Born played in 23 games last year; his best was a 12-
point effort at Western Carolina. Born was a second
team All-Georgia selection as a high school senior at

Ringgold High, where he averaged 18 ppg and 10 rpg.

“Although we will be weaker on paper than some
teams in the Southern Conference,” says Born, “I be-
lieve we will be competitive because we will function as

a team.” Among Hussey’s accolades for Born, he calls
Gerry “one of our most versatile players, with good
shooting, driving, and passing ability. We think he
could be a very good offensive player.” Born performed
admirably in all the above categories Saturday night
against Duke. He was 4-for-6 from the field for eight
points and hauled in three rebounds.

Rafael Hernandez
F, 6-6, 210, Fayetteville, NC

Rafael “Uncle Slam” Hernandez came to Davidson
with raw, undeveloped talent. By the end of last season
he was beginning to refine his playing skills, and by now
he is ready to start. “I feel with the talent we have we
should not be content with losing. We have guys who
want to win and get rid of the underdog labels Davidson
teams seem to carry. But we must take the initiative and
make the most of our talents.” Thus quoth Uncle Slam.

Hernandez shares alma mater South View High
School with Kenny Wilson. While there Rafael aver-
aged 22.3 ppg and 11 rpg and was an honorable mention
All-North Carolina selection. Coach Hussey highly
touts the talented sophomore. “Rafael has as much natu-
ral athletic ability as anyone in the Davidson program

4
(
