Wildcat Ten Cruise at .500 Clip

By SCOTT BEAVER ‘84

The Davidson wrestling team began
their regular season this past week,
splitting four matches in tri-meets. Last
Wednesday Davidson beat Furman 42-
15, and lost to VMI 34-9. The following
Saturday, the Wildcats edged Elon 23-
21, and fell to Livingstone 31-10.

In the initial tri-meet, Davidson
Cruised past Furman on the strength of
three pins. Junior John Breidenstine
(142) pinned the Paladins’ Buck Cole-
man in 2:07. Sophomore Mike Keeley
(158) won by fall over Sam Payne in
3:41, and junior Tom Hissam (177)
pinned Mark Reises at the 2:28 mark.

Davidson also got wins from freshman
Clay Carroll, who decisioned Dave
Guytao, 5-4,
McCullen, who beat Dave Smith 10-3.

In the second match, the VMI loss,
Davidson got only three wins. Sopho-
more Tom Oddo, defeated Greg Harris
10-4. Breidenstine decisioned. Matt
Martin 8-1, and Hissam downed Duke
Pickett, 9-2. Davidson suffered forfeits,
at the 126 and heavyweight classifica-
tions.

In the second tri-meet, the Cats
avenged a close loss last year to Elon by
slipping past the Fighting Christians 23-
21. Qddo remained undefeated, beating
Barry Cox 10-3. Hissam, who edged

and sophomore Bob =

Mark Joy 2-1, remained undefeated as
well. Breidenstine won handily, 15-3,
and Keeley won 9-6. Freshman Bill
Oldham won a key decision over Phil
Williams, 2-1.

Against Livingstone Oddo remained
unbeaten (a 12-5 decision over Kevin
Boyd) as did Hissam, who beat William
Wright 4-2. That brought the Wildcats
record to 2-2 on the year.

First year Coach Vince Arduini re-
mains pleased with his team’s perfor-
mance to date. “I think we're coming
along well,” said Arduini. He was espe-
cially. pleased considering the relative
youth of the team, which includes four
‘freshmen and one senior (co-captain

From the Locker Room

Chris Tiernan).

Arduini, however, cites the leader-
ship of Tiernan and Breidenstine as the
major reason for the team’s success thus
far. “I can’t'say enough about the lead-
ership job those guys have done, in the
off-season and in practice. That’s really
been a help to me in my first year here.
Both guys have been wrestling since
they've been here, and their leadership
helps make up for some of the other
guys’ inexperience.”

Several individuals have posted im-
pressive records in the early season.
Chief among these are Oddo (7-0) and
Hissam (6-0). Breindenstine is 6-1.

By STEVE SOUD ’84

Resting deep within the confines of the basketball
locker room, perched delicately on a table ard leaning
gently against a wall, is the key to Davidson basket-
ball’s NCAA hopes. Amidst the bustle and swirl of
post-game confusion, it stands in the middle of the
room, unmoving. Although it has no apparent name or
title, it has come to be known as “The Pyramid.”

The Pyramid, quite unlike anything at Giza, is nota
pyramid at all. It is, rather, a triangle of thick, red plas-
tic. Quite unlike anything at Giza, it is not a monument
to any powerful human being. It is, rather, a signpost
of a team that tips precariously close to falling short of
its goals.

The Pyramid is a sort of hierarchy of objectives that
point in one direction—an NCAA playoff berth. It was
devised by the coaching staff as both a monitor of the
team’s progress and a set of goals for which the team
might strive. As you might pects a 7-8 overall re-
cord has not really done The Pyfamid justice.

Of the 14 categories on The Pyramid, the team has
only reached two. In the preseason they achieved their
team mile time with six seconds to spare, an amazing
feat. Unfortunatley, it has little overbearing signifi-
cance on the won-lost record. The only other statistic
the team is matching is the tumovers-forced box. The
goal is to force 14 turnovers per game, and they’re
beating that at a solid 15.5 clip.

It’s too bad that's where the pluses stop and the
minuses begin. There are three statistics which manif-
est the team’s problems. The one point—and not that it
is at the base of The Pyramid—that has hampered the
Wildcats most is their own field goal percentage. The

goal is a modest 52 percent, but the team is far below
that kind of consistency, as they are shooting a meager
45 percent from the field. If they were blowing every-
one off the court, they could get by with 45 percent
shooting, but in a season in which they’re 4-4 in games
decided by three or fewer points, the field goal percen-
tage is a major problem. A few shots here, a few shots
there, and suddenly Davidson is 6-2 or 7-1 in wr
close games. Against East Tennessee both of the Wil-
sons had shots loll about the rim before deciding to fall
out. They could have made the difference in the game.

The second of the “mis-statistics” is the rebounding
margin. The Wildcats are -}0 on this count. Instead of
outrebounding opponents by 5 rpg, they're being out-
rebounded by 5 rpg. If Cliff Tribus had rebounded a
missed free throw with 1:09 left against Appalachian,
chances are Davidson would have won in regulation.
Tribus, however, is not the only one muffing block-out
assignments; his is only the outstanding symptom of a
team ailment. the 29-34 rebounding margin is repre-
sentative of that.

Finally, the team is nowhere near its ambitious ppg
scoring margin over opponents. On the basis of the 79-

39 loss at DePaul alone, the team could spend several
games making that up. Add on the upper teen margins
of the losses to Wake Forest and George Washington,
and the 11 ppg discrepancy between goal and actuality
1S a little more understandable, if not more easily excu-
sable.

Concurrently, these three foundational problems
have led to shortcomings at the top of The Pyramid. In
order for the Wildcats to win eight road games, they
must win five of their next six away games. That in-
cludes games at South Carolina, Marshall, East Ten-
nessee, Appalachian, and Western Carolina. Not one
is a Sure win. In order to win- 12 Southern Conference
games, they must win 9 of their next 10 SC games, in-
cluding 5 games on the road. It will not be at all easy.

If the Wildcats plan to attain any of the goals of The
Pyramid, they must at the very least attain consistency.
That's been the most pervasive problem all season.
When Tribus plays well, Kenny Wilson doesn’t. Con-
sider, for example, the most recent two games, in

which Wilson and Tribus totaled 31 and 30 points. Un-
fortunately, as Wilson scored 23 against UT-C, Tribus
scored a dismal 4 points. Conversely, as Tribus scored
26 Monday night against East Tennessee. Wilson
could muster only 8. Frankly, John Carroll is the only
player who has played consistently of late.

If the team is to gain consistency, they must at first
concentrate on improving with each game. They must
commit each loss to the past, and look at each upcom-
ing game as a chance for improvement. Only then can
they become true championship material.

It was about this time last year that Davidson lost
three consecutive Johnston Gym games to East Ten-
nessee, Marshall, and then UT-C. They nevertheless
forgot the losses and did improve with each game. al-
though they never quite became championship mate-
rial. This year, however, they have The Pyramid.
which will quietly point toward that long, elusive
Southern Conference championship as long as they
keep the faith.

OUT

SCORE
OPPONENTS
BY 8 OR MORE

60-63 \

COMMTT 14 OR
FEWER FOULS

19

FORCE ‘14 OR
MORE TURNOVERS

15.5

OUT REBOUND
OPPONENTS BY 5

TURNOVERS

SHOOT 75% OR BETTER
FROM THE FOUL LINE

COMMET 10 OR FEWER

14

suooT 20 OR
MORE FOUL
SHOTS

19.2

MAKE 14 OR
MORE ASSISTS

12

SHOOT 5927 OR BETTER
FROM THE FIELD

45%

TO SHOOT LESS
THAN 447 FROM THE
FEELD

47% \

| FORCE OPPONENTS

A copy of The Pyramid that the basketball office re-
leases after each game. It does not include the catego-

-ries team mile time (5:11), team GPA (?), away wins,

conference wins,-and the final goal of the NCAA tour-
nament.

’ THE DAVIDSONIAN/21 January 1983

~ 15
