Hilarious Absurd Existence

Reviews of last week’s and this week's plays

By STEPHANIE BRUCK ’84

Theater goers became voyeurs into a world of vir-
tual existentialism and absurdism as Bill Crone and
Roy Fuller produced plays written by the defining mas-
ters of these genres. Sartre’s No Exit and onesco’s The
Lesson create funny, strange, and extraordinary scenes
which pose serious questions.

No Exit embodies the existential statement that a
life achieves definition and meaning only as the result
of others who observe that life. A bell boy ushers three

Crudeau exchanges acerbities with Inez.

people into a room in Hell from which there is no exit.
As they gradually reveal themselves to each other,
their hatred builds. They revile the company of one
another and vow to introspect rather than enter each
other’s lives. But eternity looms in front of them, and
they realize they need each other, if only to fashion a
semblance of meaning for their suffering.

Elizabeth Williams debuts in an extremely difficult
role and makes the unpleasantly frank Inez a real per-
son. Freshman Chris Lightbown is off to an excellent
start with his portrayal of Vincent, a man tortured with
his own cowardice. Heather Jameson is outstanding as
Estelle, whose almost schizoid ability to ignore her
monstrous self and exist as a totally different person
makes her a fascinating and frightening character. The
trio works well together, with the hatred and the need
quite apparent, and Joe Jaworski set the keynote Yor the
show as the deliciously diabolical bellboy.

Director Bill Crone, who disagrees with Sartre’s
philosophy, stages the play in such a way that the au-
dience decides if the vampirish relationships shown are
in fact man’s true state. After the characters’ horribly
revealing epiphany, the cycle of acquaintance and
hatred grinds around to its beginning again, and the au-

dience is left hoping deeply that it isn’t-true.

_ The Lesson, directed by Roy Fuller, is the second
absurdist work of the one-act play season. The action
of the piece moves in two ways: the relationship be-
tween the characters inverts during the course of the
play as the timid professor becomes insanely enraged,
while the originally confident pupil becomes a fearful
and desperately defiant wreck. The atmosphere of the
piece moves linearly from the calmly rational to fren-
zied, emotional, irrational heights, culminating in the
professor’s stabbing of his pupil.

John Marks continues to surpass himself. In this
demanding part, his sense of comedy is perfect, height-
ening his degeneration, so that at the peak of his rage,
the stage is his. In her first major role here, Jenny
Cooper brings depth to the role of the pupil, not allow-
ing the obvious personality shift to define and limit her
character. It is the maid who the professor turns to for
help and comfort, and she, in her obsessively maternal
concern, gently chastises him and makes it “all better.”

Estell and Crudeau in Hell.

Laura Singleton finds the right note to make the au-
dience’s skin creep as she calmly dominates the erst-
while horrifying professor.

The pace was lively last week as the actors kept the
lines moving, and Roy’s blocking kept the play visual-
ly interesting. This-chilling picture of the perils of ab-
solute power both immediately gripped the audience
and left them with some powerful food for thought.

Metal Sculpture

Gaping and scrawled pieces on display

_ By CLARE ECKERT ’85

The current exhibit in the Gallery, entitled Metal
Works, represents a collection of ten-recent sculptures
and four etched wall-reliefs by Jan Brooks Loyd.
Loyd, an Assistant Professor in the Creative Arts at
UNCC, has become one of the few women recognized
internationally in the medium of metal work, having
exhibited last year at the Smithsonian Institute and at

rims lend an almost delicate air to the steel medium

while the etched inner surfaces produce a variety of |

textures. A jagged piece of steel, a length of wire, even
a dart are included in the “drawings” on the inner surfa-

ces. Reflecting the variety of the sculptures, their titles

range from the peaceful Desert Flower to the stark Se-
vered Extremity.

G

Having been interested in several art forms during

On the boards
for friday night

Take a Friday ramble to Cunningham and buy a
ticket early for a hilarious hour and a half, starting with
Hands Across the Sea, directed by Todd Cowdery.
Noél Coward’s 1930s English drawing room comedy
keeps the audience roaring as an exuberant socialite
finds that she has no idea who the couple in her living
room is. This actual plot is amusing, but alrnost incid-
ental as the humor lies in the characterizations. It is the
ladies’ show as Valerie Hinton shines as Piggie, the oh-
so-vivacious hostess, spectacularly holding the stage.
Newcomer Liz Relyea displays quick dry wit as her
friend, and Rob Spach and Rob Moore lend a special
British air. Charles Mitchell brings the audience to his
side as a marvelous long-suffering husband.

The affected British accents are not perfect, but ac-
ceptable. The blocking makes the pysical action paral-
lel the swirling confusion in Piggie’s head. The strong
supporting roles live up to the standard set by Valerie
and lend a solid footing to the sparkling, outrageous
humor.

Suzann Smith directed A Good Time, by Emest
Thompson, author of On Golden Pond, who mingles
humor with a more serious look at relationships. A cop
shows up at the apartment of a stylish New York wom-
an who had told him two years before that if he forgot
about the ticket, she would show him a good time in
New York. After several very amusing misuderstand-
ings, they leave to go sightseeing.

Anne Miano is intriguing as the sophisticated
woman keeping control of her life with Jane Fonda’s
Workout, chanting, and grass. Frank Bright’s first per-
formance is in the role of a quiet, perceptive police-
man. His understated manner is quite appropriate for
the part.

The actors play well off each other as the atmos-
phere moves from a great awkwardness to a closer inti-

macy. There are a few moments which drag, but the in-—

terchanges between the charactrs are well played. The
message becomes a bit heavy-handed, but the charac-
ters more than compensate for the dross.

the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. her career, Loyd cites as the “high point” of her career
The bowl-shaped, forged sculptures in Metal the time she spent with a blacksmith in Santa Fe learn-
Works “function as drawings” says Russ Warren, As- ing to use a forge. After this experience, Loyd was able
sistant Professor of Art here at Davidson. The artist to experiment with surfaces as well as shapes; as Metal
stresses the surfaces of her sculptures; the undulating Works illustrates. h ;

THE DAVIDSONIAN/28 January 1983

By Anderson Scott °84
