The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983 5

News Analysis

‘Visions and Revisions’: A Patterson Court History

By ROSS HOLT

The current controversy over self-
selection has a long, multifaceted his-
tory. The issues involved are not new;
they have confronted class after class and
periodically rise to the forefront of stu-
dent life in impassioned discussion. The
system has undergone
many changes, both
subtle and radical, and

Two Parts after years of “visions
—____ and revisions” the Col-
lege has not yet found a solution to the
problems of its social life.

If the evolution of the current confu-
sion has a beginning (although minor
questions had been raised about frater-
nities beginning with an 1894 petition
calling for their abolition), it probably
occurred during the spring of 1960. A
group of fraternity men had gone inactive
earlier that year to protest the first-week
freshman rush and fraternity monopoly
on campus social life.

Sophomore Rush

In response, the faculty (then the
major day-to-day policymaking body)
voted to postpone rush until sophomore
year for the class of 1966. Though the
Trustees overtumed the faculty ruling,
the questions the inactives raised still re-
quired answering. During 1961, the
Inter-Fraternity Council worked with the
fraternities on compromise proposals
geared toward liberalizing the pledge
process and making hazing less “objec-
tional.” The faculty agreed with the final
compromise. That and the formation of a
local campus club at Lingle Manor
calmed the controversy, at least for two
years.

In 1964, however, Robert Young, an
administration official, recommended in
a’ chapel speech that the College once
again consider a sophomore rush. In ad-
dition, he suggested a policy of 100 per-
cent affiliation and stated that any stu-
dent had the right to receive fraternity
bids.

As a result, during the °64-65 school
year the Student Council formed the
Fraternity Study Committe which con-
sisted of nine students, three administra-
tors, and one member of the faculty. The
committee offered two recommenda-
tions: one, a proposal calling for con-
struction of new social houses and con-
version of fraternities into non-selective
social clubs; and the other a minority
reaction more in line with the 100 percent
affiliation policy.

Students Demonstrate

The Faculty Fraternity Evaluation
Committee then reviewed the Fraternity
Study Committee’s findings, and opted
to offer the minority report for full and
final faculty action. The faculty — by
one vote — opposed the minority report
and elected to institute the original com-
mittee’s more radical proposal. Upon the
faculty vote. in April °65, pledge ac-
tivities for the class of °69 were sus-
pended indefinitely.

Student response to the vote was
quick and drastic. In a fraternity-planned

First of

The Fraternity Evaluation Committee, having studied at length...
has concluded that the fraternities have assumed a paramount and
disproportionate role... We recommend that all national Greek let-
ter social fraternities give official satisfaction that all Davidson stu-
dents... are eligible for initiation. . .

-Willis O. Jackson, SGA President, 1965

Arguments and responses are too familiar to be rehearsed here, but
we are convinced that the system ... does, with some exception,
place artificial yet substantial barriers between people.

—Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life, 1967

Enough time has already been spent formulating piecemeal, stop-
gap measures designed only to save fraternities, not to solve the
problem of social life at Davidson.

—Joe Murphy, Student Body President, 1969

Fraternities have and are making significant contributions to the
lives of thousands of Davidson men... The silent majority of the
alumni. . . will realize the Davidson they have known is a thing of the
past; then their loyal support, both moral and financial, will be in
jeopardy.

—Charles W. McCrary ‘24, 1971

There have been numerous studies of the fraternity system. . . most

of which begin with statements to the effect that the fraternity sys-
tem “has along history,” and “has been studied extensively.”

Report of the Commission

on Social Patterns at Davidson

A system of self-selection may be fine for some students, out... it
would be best if several fraternities were allowed to remain as they
are now so that students could have as many alternatives to choose
from as possible.

—Jim Cantrell ‘71, 1970

... But fraternity life isn’t as easy as it might look. During the next
week, you will be faced with both hypocrisy and superficiality. You
will see some of your friends hurt by rejection. This is the price of so-

cial life at Davidson.

~The Freshman Rush Guide, Peter Hobbie 1969

If nothing else, the past decade has proved the futility of the cry for

change with the system.

and orchestrated demonstration, over
half the student body tumed out for a
torch-light march on the residences of
then-Assistant Dean of Students Bob
Jones and President Grier Martin. At
Martin’s house, according to Davidso-
nian reports, then-chaplain Will Terry
confronted the marchers and told them to
move to Chambers where President Mar-
tin would speak to them.

At Chambers, Martin talked with
leaders of the demonstration and con-
vinced them that a petition would be
more effective than simply “making
noise.” The organizers then called off the
protest, and the crowd rapidly dispersed.

The Trustees met near the end of the
month and revised the faculty proposal.
Though they removed the abolition of the
fraternities, they also instituted a second-
semester rush and gave the stamp of ap-
proval to the construction of new houses.
The Trustees also suggested a continued
examination of the problems.

—The Davidsonian, 1970

To do this, the Social Life Evaluation
Committee was formed during the 1965-
66 school year. By February °66, the
committee had collected reports from
each fraternity and independent organi-
zation weighing the pros and cons of
their positions in the social structure of
the College. Based on this evidence, the
committee again recommended that
every student wanting a bid should get
one. But the IFC rejected this proposal.
and the two committees worked out a
compromise called “100 percent social
affiliation.” This meant that every stu-
dent had the right to eat at a house, but a
student could not become a national
member of that house's fraternity with-
out a bid. In October of 1967, the Trus-
tees approved this policy. However, no
one had yet answered the questions
raised by the hurt of rejection.

Although student outcry quieted after
the compromise, the entire college was
caught in a major shifting of gears, In the

Blue Sky report of April °67, the funda-
mental foci of the school were examined.
The Blue Sky committee again suggested
that houses become non-selective, and
went further to recommend random as-
signment of freshmen to those houses. In
addition, new President Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. commissioned five commit-
tees made of students, faculty, and Trus-
tees to complete a far-reaching study of
the College. This report, called “Social
Patterns at Davidson College.” stated in
its section on social life that fraternities
were desirable, but that the “basis of af-
filiation” should be the right of the
freshmen. It also suggested that all Court
houses should be non-selective eating
clubs, implying that without houses the
fraternities would simply fade away.

Other challenges faced the frater-
nities toward the end of the decade. In
October 1969, due to declining member-
ship and increasing national costs, Sigma
Chi ended its national affiliation and
went local, forming a short-lived eating
house called the Munchies. The student
body elected anti-fraternity activist Peter
Hobbie SGA president by a 2-1 margin.
Under Hobbie’s leadership independents
published “The Freshman Guide to
Rush.” The scathing guide was distri-
buted to all freshmen in January 1970.
Additionally, factions for local affilia-
tion and others for national affiliation
within some fraternities came ever closer
to open conflict.

Spencer Proposes Nonselectivity

Then, with divisive argument raging
all around, President Samuel Spencer, in
a September 1970 speech, officially pro-
posed a completely non-selective social
system in which freshmen would either
self-select a house, or be randomly as-
signed to one, On October 16, the Trus-
tees adopted Spencer's proposal.

In reaction to the new system, 150
fraternity men and their dates demon-
strated at the Homecoming football
game, and then representatives of that
group met with President Spencer to state
their case. The arguments centered
around perceptions of general student
sentiment. Fraternity members accused
the students working with the Trustees as
being “biased against the status quo” and
not representative of student opinion.
The pro-selection forces countered that
opinion, citing the elections of such can-
didates as Hobbie.

Once the Trustees’ decision was
made, the Committee of 18 was formed.
It consisted of Vice-president for
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Facul-
ty John Bevan, C. Shaw Smith. Dean of
Students Richard Burts, Business Man-
ager Robert Currie, the SGA officers.
four fraternity presidents, professors
Bliss, Kelton. Wolf. and McKelway.
and two freshmen. The committee's job
was to design procedures for the im-
plementation of self-selection.

Next week: The reasons behind the
1971 ‘change to ‘self-selection and its
transition to its current state.
