2 Friday, April 22, 1983 / The Davidsonian

Convocation Awards Presented

The following awards were presented at last Friday’s convocation cere-
monies: Omicron Delta Kappa Teaching Award — Associate Professor of Polit-
ical Science and Director of the Center for Special Studies Louis L. Ortmayer;
Sandy Black Memorial Award (to the outstanding senior pre-medical student)
— Rene Herlong; David Halbert Howard Jr. Chemistry Award — Lynmarie A.
Posey; Presser Music Award — Jane Redd; A.K. Phifer Economics Award —
Mary Barber, Eric Hill; Jefferson Davis Award (for excellence in the Study of
constitutional law) — Rebecca Waters; Brewer German Award — Hal Martin.

Thomas D. Sparrow Award (for contribution to intercollegiate athletics) —
Victor Taylor; Susan Roberts Award (to the senior woman for contributions to
intercollegiate athletics) — Catherme Morell; James Baker Woods ITI Memorial
Award (to a rising senior cadet for outstanding leadership) — Bradley T.
McCall; George C. Marshall ROTC Award (to the outstanding military science
IV Cadet) — Joseph C. Sloop; Danie! Blain Woods Award (to the rising senior
premedical student best exhibiting the qualities of a good doctor) — Jasper C.
Ratterree III; Richard Ross Memorial Music Award — Cynthia Anne Clark;
W.G. McGavock Mathematics Award — Laura Singleton; Eumenean Literary
Society Award — Marvin Overby.

Rebecca E. Stimson Award (to the woman student best typifying the David-
son Spirit) — Amy Crittenberger, Tommy Peters Award (to the athlete best
typifying the Davidson spirit) — Cliff Tribus; Charles Malone Richards Award
(for outstanding contribution to the community religious life) — Sally Hughes;
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award (to an upperclassman of outstanding character and
scholarship) — Katie Dagenhart; George L. Gladstone Memorial Award (to a
rising senior showing high potential service to mankind) — Doug Ammar.

Average Faculty Salary Increases Announced
Faculty salaries will increase for the 1983-84 school year an average of 8.2 per-
cent. Professor salaries will rise an average of 7.7 percent, or $2,700; as-
sociates, 8.0 percent, or $2,300; assistants and instructors, 8.9 percent, or $900.
Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price
Zimmermanp pointed out that these percentages “can be taken as a relative stan-
dard with which to compare individual increments.” However, the average re-
flects factors such as special increments for reasons of equity.
Zimmermann also pointed out that dollar figures are not a good standard of
comparison, since the same percentage creates a larger increment at the top of
the rank than at the bottom.

The Delts Win Greek Week
Greek Week Final Results:

Delts 24 SAE 18
Fiji 21 KA 13
PKA 20 . SPE3

Update On Senior Class Gift

The class of 1983 is well on its way to meeting its goal of $100,000, an
amount to be given to the school for the endowment of yearly need-based schol-
arships awarded through the Admissions Office.

The gift campaign, which wil! continue throughout the next five years, has
already brought commitments from 58 percent of the class in the initial push for
pledges. Gift Treasurer Alan Fields reports that 207 seniors (out of a class of
352) have pledge thus far.

Most have pledged one percent of their adjusted gross income for the next
five years, although some have pledged lump figured and others have pledged as
much as two percent. Campaign Co-Chairman Jeff Jordan says that a significant
number of one percent pledges are necessary for the success of their fund, but he
stresses that participation by all seniors in any way which they feel comfortable
is the ultimate goal.

Already the percentage of participation is encouraging. With 58 percent
pledging, and that number rising daily, the Class of 1983 far exceeds the current

The Davideonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College.

Address corrs to: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-

2000 ext: 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost

$12 per veer. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, North
ina 26036.

Dan Voorhis,Duncan Fraser, News Editors
Thurston Hatcher, Features Editor

Barry Elledge, Opinions Editor

Steve Soud, Sports Editor

Anderson Scott, Photography Editor
Jeffrey Danese, Advertising Manager

Ann Meador, Editor
David Resnik, Executive Editor

Jeff Mann, Associate Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager

NEWS SUMMARY

college percentage of alumni giving which stands at 32 percent.

International Festival Tomorrow

An International Festival featuring food, music, and dance from eight for-
eign countries will be held on the Union Patio at 2 p.m. tomorrow afternoon.
The Union International Committee is sponsoring the event.

The countries represented at the festival will include China, England, Fr-
ance, Germany, Greece, India, Japan, and Pakistan. The festival will also fea-
ture a World Cup Soccer Tournament which will be played on the lawn in front
of Chambers. In case of rain, the soccer game will be cancelled and other ac-
tivities will be held in the Morrison Room.

Women’s Concerns Committee To Hold Dessert Social

The Women’s Concerns Committee is holding a dessert social this Sunday at
7:00 p.m. at the Kappa Alpha house following a Wind Ensemble Outdoor Pop
Concert at 6:00 p.m. in front of the Commons.

The Dessert Social is open to all interested members of the College and com-
munity. If you are able to attend the social, contact Meg Surratt (892-6214) or
Ruth Pittard (892-2000, ext. 289) or sign up at the Union desk by 5:00 today.
The WCC needs people to attend the social, bring desserts, and to babysit.

Davidson College Presents Alumni Awards

Four Davidson College alumni received awards from the College's alumni
association at a reunion luncheon last Saturday.

Robert T. Amos Jr. of High Point, the president of Amost Hosiery Mills,
was presented the association’s highest honor, the Distinguished Alumnus
Award. Amos has served as president of Davidson’s alumni association and as a
member of the board of trustees and the parents council. He also has been presi-
dent of the High Point Chamber of Commerce and chairman of the board of both
High Point Historical Association and Memorial Hospital.

He has served the industry as chairman of the board of the National Associa-
tion of Hosiery Manufacturers and director of the National Association of Man-
ufacturing.

He was named “Citizen of the Year” in High Point in 1975. D

Alumni Service Medals went to W. Blair Gwyn of North Wilkesboro, W.E.
MeNair of Atlanta, Ga., and Ross Smyth of Charlotte.

Gwyn, an official of North Carolina National Bank and treasurer of the
American Furniture Company, has been active with the Wilkes Chamber of
Commerce, the North Wilkesboro Town Board and school board, and the
YMCA. He is a member of the Lions Club.

McNair served as associate professor of English and director of relations at
Agnes Scott College from 1952 until 1977. He is an elder of the Presbyterian
Church.

Smyth, an attomey, is a member of the North Carolina Bar Association and
Myers Park Presbyterian Church, and has been active with the Charlotte Junior
Soccer Foundation and the March of Dimes. He is a past president of Davidson's
National Alumni Association, and the Mecklenburg County chapter of the
Davidson College Alumni Association.

J. Cecil Lawrence of Charlotte also received an alumni service medal that
was approved last year but not presented. Lawrence, of the class of 1930, holds
additional degrees from Union Theological Seminary. He is a retired executive
secretary of the Mecklenburg Presbytery, and served as pastor at various
churches.

The awards luncheon was held during Davidson's alumni reunion weekend,
which saw some 700 alumni return to the campus.

Fall Course Registration To Begin Monday

Davidson students returning next fall will begin selecting courses for the
new term this Monday. The final date for turning in coarse preferences is April
28.

Students will meet with advisors April 22-28. Members of the class of ’85
will be selecting majors and will be consulting with major advisors instead of
their previous advisors. .

News Staff: Kelly Sundberg, Assistant News Editor; Diana Bohrer, Roxanna Guilford,
Mary Beth Harding, Paulette Kurani, Jeff Holland, John Ruppenthal, Mike Tantillo
Features Staff: Fred Broadwell, Brian Butler, Craig Detweiler, Jon Glance, Bob Finch,
John Krotchko, Eric Long, Kirsten McDonald, John Marks, Matt Morris, Tracy
Thompson

Sports Staff: Bobby Barnes, Scott Huie, Kara Gilmore, Garry Sullivan

Photography Staff: Peggy Pierotti, Assistant Photography Editor; Neil Cooksey,
Angetique Foster, Ann Hunter

Business Staff: David McCurry, Kurt Henjes, William White

Production Staff: Rob Hollenbeck, Jim Morgan

