sis a high incentive for each to launch a nuclear attack
before their arms are destroyed by the other side. Far
from providing a deterrent from nuclear war, the MX
and similar Soviet weapons would provide a greater
likelihood of nuclear war.

The freeze would in no way endanger our security.
Despite claims by the Reagan administration that the
Soviets have nuclear superiority and that the MX will
“put us ahead” and give us a “bargaining chip” in arms
control talk, the U.S. Department of Defense Annual
Report for fiscal year 1982 states that the U.S. and the
U.S.S.R. are “roughly equal in strategic nuclear pow-
er.” All authorities, private and governmental, agree
that each side can annihilate the other, no matter who
attacks first (Center for Defense Information).

In response to the public’s rising awareness of the
dangers of the arms race, President Reagan has
grabbed the flag in one hand and the Reader’ s Digest in
the other hand, and said that thé freeze movement ulti-
mately originates with the Soviet Union. Those in-
volved in working for the freeze, Reagan contends (cit-
ing an article in Reader’s Digest as proof), are sincere
but gullible people who are dupes of the Communists.
The “sincere but gullible” charge has been echoed by
9th district representative and former Davidson profes-
sor Jim Martin, and recently by Charlotte Observer ed-
itor Rich Oppel.

Is a freeze really a workable idea? Who are these
people who support the peace race? And to what extent
can students be active in the peace movement?

A single U.S. Navy Poseidon submanine carries
enough destructive power to devastate every city in the
Soviet Union, and-this represents only 2 percent of the
U.S. force (Department of State Publication No.
8947). In 1964, Secretary of Defense McNamara testi-
fied that 400 nuclear weapons would be sufficient to
destroy the Soviet Union as a functioning society—we
now have 30,000 nuclear weapons and the Reagan ad-
ministration plans to produce /7,000 additional nucle-
ar weapons in the 80’s.

Enough is enough. Although Reagan uses his best
Hollywood “Win One for the Gipper” expression to
urge us on to “close our window of vulnerability” (and
if that metaphor doesn’t make sense to you, how about
the renaming of the MX as the “Peacekeeper”?), it is
clear that the only shortage is a shortage of targets. Per-
haps someday we'll be able to have a nuclear weapon
for each citizen in the Soviet Union.

As the adjacent chart indicates, the combined nu-
clear explosive power of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R.
equals /8 trillion tons, or the equivalent of 1 ‘/2 million
‘Hiroshima-sized bombs, or the firepower of 6,000
World War IIs. Put another way, that’s 4’ tons of
TNT for every man, woman, and child now living.

If the arms race continues, we can anticipate
either another Cuban missile crisis (and this time the
Soviets won’t “blink”) or an undetected computer
malfunction that will place us into an “accidental”
nuclear war (the infamous malfunction of a 46-cent
computer chip put the U.S. on alert twice recently).
Let’s hope it doesn’t take a nuclear war to rid the
Reagan administration and the military-industrial-
business-academic complex of the ideathat a nuclear
war 1s “winnable.” -

The cost of the arms race is devastating to our
economy. In the next 5 years, arms spending will
cost taxpayers over $1.6 trillion dollars, or a cost of
$20,000 to the average family of four people. It is a
sign of the pathological state of our society when
people favor the MX and cruise missiles because
they will brings jobs. Like the drug addict, we want a
fix, no matter what the cost. In fact, as U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor statistics show, military spending pro-
vides fewer jobs per billion dollars of expenditures
than any form of spending.

Jobs and peace are possible, if we change our
ways of thinking.

SANE Head Teaches Here

By FRED BROADWELL ‘83

Dr. Norris Frederick, visiting lecturer in Philos-
ophy this term, is deeply involved in the debate sur-
rounding the nuclear arms race. Frederick, a 1970
Davidson graduate and professor at UNC-C, got his
first taste of politics at Davidson during the anti-war
demonstrations. He is currently the Coordinator of
North Carolina Council of SANE, a nationwide
group which strongly supports the Nuclear Freeze.
Dr. Frederick’s major responsibility is to establish
liaison between the different peace groups in cities
across the state. He also gives speeches, writes arti-
cles and advertisements, and helps local chapters
with organizational problems. Frederick, who sees
the arms race as more of a moral issue than a politi-
cal one, does not believe that the issue should be de-
fined in terms of liberal or conservative sides. He
comments that since the arms buildup “is destroying
the economy” as well as endangering the planet,
“conservatives who talk fiscal responsibility should
support the Freeze.” He finds it amusing that some

Philosophy Professor Norris Frederick

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983

U.S. business executives who support the Freeze
are being labeled “liberals” or “soft on commu-
nism.”

Frederick is very happy to be back at Davidson
as a teacher. “The students here are still interested in
learning for learning’s sake,” he says. He does not
think that the school has changed much in the last
ten years. “Getting a job seems to be a bigger con-
cern than social issues,” he says, but “students still
voice their political concerns.” Asked how he inte-
grates his political views into his teaching, he re-
sponds that pushing social issues is not a vital func-
tion of his teaching. “Of course, I am very willing to
talk to students about the arms race,” he adds.

Frederick’s other interests include distance run-
ning, playing tennis and writing fiction. A member
of the Charlotte Writers’ Club, he is currently work-
ing on a book about parenting. At home in the busi-
ness world, too, he works for a Charlotte consulting
firm, specializing in public relations and manage-
ment skills.

bv Andarenn Cent ‘24

‘70.
