Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian 3

New Golf Course To Be Dedicated Tomorrow

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s new 3-hole golf course
will get its first use this Saturday when
alumni compete in a golf tournament as
part of Fall Homecoming. A dedication
ceremony will precede the tournament.

The course is named for alumnus
Howard Covington ’37, who donated the
majority of the funds needed to build the
course. Covington included revenue to-
ward a golf facility as part of a larger do-
nation in the summer of 1982.

The facility is in its final stages of de-
velopment, but is not yet completed, ac-
cording to Director of Alumni Relations
Jamie May. “We're dedicating this be-
fore its really ready,” he said. May cited
“aesthetic improvements” such as shrubs
and a fencewhich still made on the
course.

He added that the course is “structur-
ally in place,” and ready to be played on.
“The course is something that will be
added to over time,” he said. Director of
the Physical Plant Grover Meetz said that
landscaping will begin “almost  im-
mediately.”

Meetz worked closely with landscape
architect Russell Breeden in planning the
course, which is designed for use both as
a 3-hole par 3 course and a driving range.

The course can also accomodate the con-
struction of a full 18-hole golf course, if
such a project over become feasible.

The Athletic Department will regu-
late the use of thé golf facility and will
maintain “very strict control” over its
use, according to Athletic Director Ed
Farrell. “It is pretty exclusively for prac-
tice by our golf team, and use by our own
students, faculty, and staff,” he said.

The course will operate on a walk-on
basis, like the tennis courts, but will
allow no play by outsiders. The tennis
courts usually allow play by outsiders but
are numerous enough for this practice,
according to Farrell. Friends of students,
faculty and staff will ordinarily be prohi-
bited from using the course. Family
members of those eligible will also be
prohibited unless accompanied by the
qualified member. “The hardest thing
will be to police it,” Farrell said.

While Farrell said the Davidson golf
team will frequently practice on the
course, he believes it will be no impedi-
ment to others wishing to use the facility.
“T don’t think any of us feel that will take
up a large block of time,” he said, adding
that the structure of the course will allow
its use as a driving range at the same time
others play the three holes.

Davidson's new golf course

London School of Economics
and Political Science
A chance to study and live in London

Junior-year programs,
One-Year Master's

Postgraduate Diplomas,
Degrees

and Research

Opportunities in the Social Sciences.

The wide range of subjects includes

Accounting and Finance e@ Actuarial Science e
Anthropology @ Business Studies @ Economics e
Econometrics @ Economic History e European
Studies @ Geography e Government e Industrial
Relations @ International History @ Internatonal

Relations @ Law @ Management Science @ Operanonal
Research @ Personnel Management e Philosophy @—
Population Studies @ Politics @ Rec,ional and Urban

Planning Studies @ Sea-Use
Administration @ Social Platining in Developing
Countries @ Social Work e Scciology e Social
Psychology @ Statistical and Mathematical Sciences e
Systems Anaylisis @

Policy @ Social

Application blanks from:

Admissions Registrar, LSE, Houghton Street.
London WC2 2AE, England, stating whether
undergraduate or postgraduate.

LSE

Bruce von Stein

Covington’s donation paid for the
bulk of the course’s construction, but the
actual building costs have not been deter-
mined. Maintenance costs are expected
to be considerable, according to Meetz,
including the recent hiring of an employ-
ee whose primary responsibility will be
maintaining the course.

Though the responsibility for these
costs has yet to be determined, Meetz
speculates that most if will be included in

the budget of the Physical Plant, as are
the maintenance costs for the other athle-
tic fields.

The dedication will begin 9 a.m.
Saturday morning at the golf course, and
will include remarks by Farrell and Inter-
im President Johnston, and an introduc-
tion of Covington. Following this will be
a Closest-to-the-flag competition among
alumni, and the alumni tournament will
begin at 10 a.m.

bast’ a Fn i ed

Cadets Phil Harry and Ken Howarth get the feel of Soviet AK-47's

ROTC’s Get Airborne

Last weekend, 21-23 October, 30
Davidson cadets flew via the 145th Tac-
tical Airlift Group (Charlotte. NC) to Ft.
Bragg, N.C. where they participated in
small unit training with the 7th Special
Forces Group (Airborne). The 7th Group
Green Berets provided instruction in for-
eign weapons, radio communications.
first aid, and reconnaisance patrolling.

CPT Burke, 7th Group OIC of the
training, said, ‘The Davidson students
demonstrated plenty of enthusiasm and
an eagerness to learn.” said CPT Burke.
7th Group OIC of the training. To keep

the pace despite cold winds, rain, and lit-
tle sleep, the students needed plenty of
enthusiasm. But once again the David-
son cadets demonstrated the drive which
helped earn them top standing in the en-
tire First ROTC Region last summer.

Cadet Major Brad Perkins. said.
“This weekend of training 1s just anothe:
example of how the US Army Special
Forces have earned their reputation as the
finest soldiers and best military instruc
tors in the world. We owe the 7th Group
our gratitude and respect,” Cadet Major
Brad Perkins said.

Davidson Trustees Return
For Fall Business Meeting

By ALLISON WILLS

The fall meeting of the Davidson
Board of Trustees is expected to be une-
ventful with an emphasis on maintaining
the status quo and avoiding any major de-
cisions.

“We'll keep things on a_ steady
course,” said Richardson Love, assistant
to the president an! coordinator of the
meeting. “There'll be no drastic changes
until the new president is named.”

Committee meetings will be held all
day Friday, culminating in reports which
will be presented to the full board in the
plenary session Friday evening and
Saturday morning.

SGA President Hunter Monroe, and
Trustee Pro-Tempor and religion profes-
sor David Kaylor will act as representa-
tives at the plenary session. Their influ-
ence, however, is limited to the floor.

They will not be eligible to vote.

“The issues dealt with by the board
will depend on what the committees do,”
Love said. “There's no way to determine
what the issues will be.”

“All we know for sure is that there
will be a report from Dr. Griffith on ad-
missions and financial aid, and, of
course, Dr. Johnston will give a report as
well.” .

Following the plenary session the
board members will conclude business
with a confidential executive session
open only to board members in which
any progress concerning the Presidential
Search Committee will be considered.

Besides meetings, the Trustees will
also participate in a reception with stu-
dents at 6:15 p.m. and the Covington
Golf Facility dedication Saturday at 9
a.m.
