6 Friday, December 2, 1983/The Davidsonian Special Edition

Letters To The Editors

System Working Well

To the Editors:

I was a student at Davidson under the
semester system. Given the average
workload of a Davidson course, we felt
that preparing for five or even four
courses during the semester was an ex-
cessive burden and created extreme pres-
sure around the mid-term, term paper,
and final exam periods. It was argued
that going to a term system would allow
for more focus on the part of the students
and faculty, and increased flexibility in
programming.

One of the current arguments for
switching back to the semester system is
the concept of “percolation time” which
is suggested to occur by not meeting
every day. This may be true to some ex-
tent, but is very difficult to prove, and |
remember well that the off day for one or
two courses was the on day for two or
three others. When we campaigned for a
change to the term system I cannot re-
" member students bemoaning the loss of
“percolation time.” In addition, certain
courses which now benefit from logical
sequencing throughout the year had to be
paralleled under the semester system,
eliminating the opportunity for a differ-
ent kind of “percolation.”

The term system has allowed us to
offer several ten-week programs abroad,
such as the spring term in France spon-
sored by the art department, which
would be severely disadvantaged, if even
possible, on the semester system. This is
only one of the many examples that could
be discussed which demonstrate the crea-
tive possibilities of course development
and use of physical plant allowed by the
term system.

I believe the goals of focus and flexi-
bility have been achieved. We should
stay with a system that is working well.

Herb Jackson
Art Department

Glimmer of Hope:

Retaining Trimesters

To the Editors:

There we were, deep in the throes of
depression, reconciling ourselves to the
upcoming year of strife and turmoil.
Suddenly, we saw a glimmer of hope: the
reconsideration of the semester system.
Because the credit-hour proposal was not
adopted, the semester system lost one of
its major advantages. The trimester/
semester controversy had begun again.

With the renewed controversy, we
realized how little we appreciated the
present trimester system and how much
we have taken it and its advantages for
granted. The major reasons we support
trimesters are:

—taking or teaching fewer courses at one
time allows for more concentration of ef-
fort;

—three new beginnings are better than

two for sustaining interest and en-
thusiasm;

—the length of breaks allows students
the opportunity to enjoy a genuine vaca-
tion; .

—ample time is allotted for exams (8
exam periods for 3 exams).

Other advantages are:

—a change would necessitate difficult
adjustments in some areas,

—there is more flexibility for course
sequencing;

—the greater flexibility is an advantage
for several off-campus programs,
—intensity is better for language learn-
ing.

The trimester system makes David-
son College distinctive. There is no need
to change a system that is working and
working well. If we continue on this
course of apathy and indifference, then a
vital facet of the Davidson Experience
will be lost, and we will have no one to
blame but ourselves.

Edward L. Hay, Jr.
Beadsie Woo

Consider the SGA

Trimester Petition

To the Editors:

I want to make several comments re-
lating to the trimester system vote next
Tuesday.

First, faculty members do consider
student opinion. However, when an
SGA president distorts and discounts that
opinion in a faculty meeting, as hap-
pened in last fall’s semester system vote,
the results should not surprise us. We
cannot force the faculty to agree with us;
we can only argue our position effec-
tively. The faculty recognize the
pedagogical futility of encouraging stu-
dents to develop and express their own
opinions and then ignoring them outside
the classroom.

Second, the SGA Senate has decided
a petition will best indicate student opin-
ion on the trimester issue. We do not
mean to change opinions — most of you
have discussed the issue thoroughly.
Neither do we ignore those of you who
want the proposed semester system.
Your decision not to sign the petition will
register your opinion.

Third, I will be the only student in
next Tuesday’s faculty meeting, as
usual. I am willing to talk with any stu-
dent about this issue or any other.

Hunter Monroe
SGA President

Semester Change:
‘Not Worth It

To the Editors:

The practical problems of switching
to the semester system are very real. This
letter will focus on the standpoint of the
registrar in that the problems are not only
real but costly. Registrar Richard Burts

showed me a list of the spaces left in
courses after add/drop was over. Under
the current system there are an abun-
dance of course choices and a student can
usually get his first course choice. How-
ever, under a semester system a student
would not necessarily get his first choice
— he would have to take what was avail-
able. Burts said a “period of transition”
with instability and confusion would
“last at least five years. The students
would be affected.”

Another problem would be the fair
determination of the sequence of ad-
vanced courses and their prerequisites
after one has already begun under the
trimester system.

Currently the College is undergoing a
change from the National Computer
Registrar (NCR) computer system to the
Prime Computer System. Combined
with a switch to semesters, this would
mean a “great burden” for the Registrar’s
office.

Burts stated in an interview that we
have a tri-term system that works very
well. Furthermore there are accomoda-
tions in the current system for student
transfers. Burts repeatedly said that the
switch to semesters “would be a swap,
but there would be no gain.”

I cannot say with any integrity that
the switch to semesters is worth the
change. Beyond any doubt the quality of
education would suffer, while students,
the faculty, and each department adjusts
for five years. There is nothing wrong
with semesters, but according to logic
and rational thinking the change borders
on insanity. In light of evidence in this
letter and others and in the words of the
Registrar himself, “it would not be worth
it.”

Chet Barksdale

Visiting Student

Favors Trimesters

To the Editors:

As a visiting student from Smith Col-
lege in Massachusetts, I am constantly
comparing Smith to Davidson. One as-
pect of Davidson that I prefer is its
trimester schedule. There are two basic
reasons for my preference: taking three
courses instead of four or five, and hav-
ing a term of ten weeks rather than four-
teen. ,

Keeping up with three sets of assign-
ments is less distracting and sometimes
less time consuming than working on
four separate subjects. Because students
juggle only three professors’ individual
requirements and preferences, they can

devote more consideration to each .

course.

Without working more than students
at Smith, Davidson men and women
have the advantage of pursuing nine
courses per year as opposed to eight.

Another advantage the trimester sys-
tem has over semesters is the shortness of
each term. At.this time of year, my
friends at Smith face two more weeks of
class before exams. The enthusiasm with

which they entered their new courses in
September has by now waned considera-
bly.

For me, the temptation to cut classes
was greatest in the last three or four
weeks of the semester. At Davidson this
fall, that temptation never developed into
a reality. My interest in all three subjects
remained high through the ten weeks of
class.

Some instructors argue that in the
shorter term students don’t have enough
time to ruminate over everything they are
learning. My response is that while stu-
dents have a lifetime to reflect, they may
have only four years in which to take ad-
vantage of the excitement of actual class-
es.

Christine Jackson

Curriculum Changes

Remain Ambiguous

To the Editors:

The various debates over implement-
ing the semester system consider only the
benefits and drawbacks of the system it-
self and not the mechanics of the transi-
tion to the new system. The faculty is
split on the issue, and by evidence of an
unofficial referendum last year, the stu-
dent body is vehemently against the
change. It seems that the faculty feels lit-
tle responsibility to or little concern for
the views of the student body on the
issue. The faculty’s exact degree of re-
sponsibility to the Davidson student
body is a debatable matter. But in the
case of the semester system change, the
faculty has an obvious responsibility to
the students. The faculty is responsible
for working out all the problems and de-
veloping a relatively complete plan for a
change before they drag our academic
careers through the transition.

Exactly how will the change affect
the course curriculum? Which courses
would be added, dropped, and/or com-
bined? What will the change do to the
major requirements in all departments? If
faculty members have the answers to
these questions, then they are certaintly
keeping them to themselves. In their
haste they may have not considered these
questions, but more disturbing is the pos-
sibility that they have the answers and are
not publishing them. Faculty members
who support the change seem to have lit-
tle compassion or professional courtesy
for the registrar or their fellows in the sci-
ence department. Do they even care that
they only give us one term to modify or
redesign our academic strategies? I must
spend my last year at Davidson under the
semester system if it passes. I cannot af-
ford to be one of the poor fools marred by
a rushed and poorly planned changeover.
It is reasonable to expect from the faculty
of this institution a curricular plan which
is as well researched and developed as
any work they expect from me.

David S. McCurry
