The Davidsonian/Friday, October 14, 1983 3

Advisory Committee To Collect Student Opinion.

By DAN VOORHIS

The newly formed SGA Presidential
Advisory Committee will collect student
opinions on Davidson’s major issues and
present them in a paper to the new Col-
lege president.

The committee, organized at the be-
ginning of this term, met Wednesday for
the first time to determine how to sum-
marize student opinion. They plan to sol-
icit informed views from various com-
mittees and organizations on campus.

A letter will be sent out to these
groups next week. Committee chairman
Elizabeth Brooks explained that this first
Step will be to “ask opinions on the things
that directly affect them. This is their big
shot to get their views across,” she said.

Grading Policies Vary By Professor

By ROXANNA GUILFORD

Davidson has no general College pol-
icy on grading. For the past fifteen years,
College professors have set their own
grading scales. “There is no numerical
equivalent for [letter] grades,” said Reg-
istrar Richard Burts. But while grading
remains the individual professors’ pre-
rogative, he or she must be able to justify
and document the basis of the grades is-
sued.

According to the “Academic Regula-
tions for 1983-84” available in the regis-
trar’s office, students may question a
grade which they feel they do not des-
erve. The professor in question and the
department head are the first two re-
courses, If both of these appeals fail, stu-
dents may appeal to the Dean of the Fac-
ulty.

If the matter is still not resolved, it is
turned over to the Executive Committee
of the faculty. The appeal to the Dean of
Faculty must be made within 30 days of
the new term, and the executive commit-
tee’s decision is binding.

Professors’ Policies

Class participation is a factor most
professors consider in determining a
final grade. For French professor Lauren

Yoder “class participation is essential.” -

{Dent

ichae

Mi

as
Chairperson Elizabeth Brooks

SGA President Hunter Monroe in-
itiated the committee to acquaint the new
College president with student views be-
fore decisions had to be made. Monroe
added that “once they make policy and

Grade Point Averages by Department
and Number of Majors (1982-83)

Dept. Latin 3.01 2
Department Average No. Majors Mathematics 2.86 33
Anthropology 2.82 0 Military Science 3.76 no major
Art 2.97 14 Music 3.15 9
Biology 3.06 7 Philosophy 2.97 17
Center/Special Studies 3.58 unavail. Physics 2.78 16
Chemistry 3.00 36 Political Science 3.09 43
Classics 2.96 0 Psychology 3.06 52
Economics 2.93 127 Religion 2.90 27
Education 3.42 no major Sociology 3.11 17
English 3.00 97 South Asian Studies 3.18 no major
French 3.07 9 Spanish 2.88 5
German 3.05 10 Speech 3.39 no major
Greek 3.42 1 Theatre 3.65 5
History 3.12 99
Humanities 2.95 no major All Departments 3.02

Beyond simple regurgitation of facts, he
looks for creativity, evidence of im-
provement, and an ability to concep-
tualize and integrate.

Analytic ability is also very impor-
tant to professors in the Humanities pro-
gram, where essay answers provide a
large part of the basis of the professor’s
evaluation. Religion professor Sam
Maloney explains that discussion ques-
tions are used most often in order to
evaluate how well-a student can integrate
the information received in class. His
basic theory about grades is that the stu-
dent does the work, and he keeps a re-
cord.

In Humanities, 15 percent of this re-
cord entails class participation. Other
disciplines weigh this aspect differently,
but nearly all consider it when deciding
upon a final grade.

Theater and Speech professor Rupert
Barber sees class contribution as
“major,” figuring greatly into his evalua-
tion of theater classes. Religion and En-
glish professors use participation as a
criteria, as do some in the sciences. One
Physics professor sees this as playing an
important role in many of his classes,
especially the smaller ones.

Another important consideration for

take actions it is very hard to stop. We’re
just trying to let the President know how
we feel from the start.

The committee will refrain from
drawing conclusions and making sugges-
tions. According to Brooks, their job is
“to bring together the variety of student
opinion rather than trying to make rec-
ommendations. We're advisory in the
sense of providing information for better
decisions.”

Brooks felt that “it would be hard for
the new president, even an alumnus who
left 30 years ago, to understand all the
facts. We’re trying to update the presi-
dent on what’s going on.”

The letter the committee will send out
includes a questionnaire to direct the re-

many professors is evidence of improve-
ment. This is often difficult to measure,
and, as one professor points out, works
better with smaller classes.

Open-ended factors such as improve-
ment and “benefit of the doubt” often
make grading ambiguous.

Mathematics professor Benjamin
Klein finds this ambiguity less than appe-
aling. His grading philosophy em-
phasizes the importance of a student
knowing exactly where he stands. Ad-
vocating what he terms “unambiguity.”
he adheres to a formula that allows stu-
dents to know their letter grades based on
their numerical test results. He admits
that this tends to impose a degree of in-
flexibility, but he also maintains that it is
only fair.

While he would like to grade for im-
provement, Klein sees it as unfair to the
consistent student.

His policy is based on fairness not
only relative to the individual but relative
to the entire class.

Perhaps Maloney best summarized
the divergent philosophies when he
Stated that he simply “kept the record.”
His assertion that “tests are a motivating
factor in learning” seems to be shared by
many of his colleagues as well.

sponses. The committee will collate
opinions in a first draft by the first week
of next term. The final report will be on
the president's desk by Christmas,
whether or not a new president has been
chosen.

All groups will be questioned on is-
sues such as the semester system, faculty
evaluations, exam period length, campus
security, self-selection, and other topics
of general student interest. Also included
will be questions pertaining to each par-
ticular group’s area of interest.

Members of the committee are
Brooks, freshman Mark Sandy,
freshman Chet Barksdale, junior Warren
Gould, junior Tim McGaughey, and
junior John Laughlin.

Center
Enriches
Curriculum

By WAYNE MAGRUDER

The Center for Special Studies helps
students interested in pursuing areas that
exceed the confines of the regular
majors. The Center allows a student to
focus on broad interests into the work-
able objectives that constitute a major.

Anyone seeking such a major can
realize their wish outside regular
academic channels through any combi-
nation of seminars, tutorials, internships
and experiences abroad. Center Director
Professor Louis Ortmayer said, “It al-
lows for self-design and flexibility which
offers broader opportunities for explora-
tion and application of {one’s} major.”

Students interested in completing a
major through the Center are asked to
submit a statement of their “educational
experience, interests, and accomplish-
ments,” according to the Guidelines for
Application. Students must describe the
“organization of {his} program — tuto-
nals, seminars, and independent study
projects in the Center, and courses in the
regular academic program.” An inter-
view by the Center faculty follows.

Students then proceed to complete a
self-designed major utilizing any re-
sources, seminars, and courses useful to
them. They may even take courses of-
fered at another institution or study and
work abroad. During the senior year they
must present a senior thesis or project.
Most are written, but some involve
multi-media presentations.

The Center, sponsor of all types of
study, is especially strong in interna-
tional topics such as International Politi-
cal Economy or third-world journalism.

Not only are the students able to con-

tinue disciplines under the Center's pro-
gram, but also they can do in-depth work
within a specific field.
Senior Jeff Mann is one of the students
benefitting from the program's flexibil-
ity. Seeking a journalism/political sci-
ence major, Mann designed his own edu-
cational plan.
