4 Friday, April 1, 1983/The Davidsonian

Financial Aid Remains the Same

By DAN VOORHIS

Financial aid to students for 1983-84
will remain at the same level as this year
despite governmental attempts to cut it.

According to Assistant Dean in
charge of Financial Aid Kathleen
Stevenson, Congress did not approve the
massive decreases in campus-based fed-
eral funds that were proposed by the
Reagan administration last year. Reagan
failed in his effort to slash student aid by
50 percent. For the next fiscal year at
least all money channeled through the in-
dividual college will maintain at its pre-
sent level.

This aid includes the Supplemental
Educational Opportunity Grants, Na-
tional Direct Student Loans (90 percent
Government funded), and the College
Work-Study program (80 percent Gov-
ernment funded). The Pell Grants and
State Student Incentive Grants will con-
tinue at their present rate.

However, the Guaranteed Student
Loans have been considerably reduced
from 1981. Previously, almost anyone
could obtain one; how, the student’s par-
ents must earn less than $30,000 per year

or the student must demonstrate need.

With the College tuition rising eight
percent and the government assistance
remaining constant, or in some cases
shrinking, students will probably require
more aid. “Davidson College will con-
tinue to fund 100 percent of demonstrat-
ed need,” said Stevenson.

The College applies to the federal
government each year under the SEOG,
NDSL and Work-study program. The
amount it receives is determined by a
complex formula including the number
of students deserving aid. These are
called federal college-based funds.
Davidson will receive $51,000 for the

SEOG and $116,000 for work-study.

Individuals receive Pell Grants from
the federal government. A person fills
out the FAF and is placed on an eligigbil-
ity index to determine the amount the
applicant may receive. The total is ascer-
tained from student ability to pay and the
college tuition.

Presidential Search

(continued from page 1)

Between meetings the committees
will meet separately to evaluate the qual-
ifications of the candidates. After their
meeting in April, the search committee
hopes to begin interviewing the few
selected candidates.

All committees have played an equal
role in the process so far. “There is to-
tally equal access for the students, and
they will participate in the interviewing,”
comments Craig. “Every meeting I’ve
gone to, the Student Committee is nght
there,” said Economics _ professor
Charles Ratliff.

The Trustee Presidential Search
Committee makes the final decision,
over the Faculty and Student Commit-
tees.

However, according to the Constitu-
tion of Davidson College, Article 1: “The
President is appointed by the Trustees to
serve for such term and on such condi-
tions as they consider appropriate. The
Trustees shall establish procedures to as-
sume that Trustee Presidential Search
Committees have consultations with
Faculty, Students, and the Administra-
tion Staff in carrying out their Committee

function.”

Potential Presidents must have a
strong religious commitment and be af-
filiated with the Presbyterian Church, ac-
cording to Article IV of the Trustee
Bylaws. ‘‘They [the Trustees] shall elect
only a person who is a loyal and active
churchman, giving evidence by his life
on the strength of his Christian faith and
commitment. Such faith and commit-
ment will appropriately expressed by his
affiliation with the Presbyterian Church
in the United States and his active partici-
pation in the life of the College Church.”

Faculty Salaries

(continued from page !)

sor comes to fulfilling the criteria of “1)
excellence in teaching, 2) demonstration
of superior professional attainments in
research, scholarship, and curriculum
design, and 3) exemplification of the in-
tellectual and moral values for which the
College stands.”

A professor’s teaching ability is
judged by evaluations submitted by the
professor’s department chairman, col-
leagues, and students.

* The Code states that “among the key
components of successful teaching are
well-organized and stimulating lectures,
skill in conducting discussions, the
imagination to perceive student prob-
lems, and the ability to help students
learn to think analytically and logically.”

In judging teaching abilities, Zim-
mermann is using the ICES for the last

time. The influence of student opinion
will “lessen dramatically” due to the dis-
continuation of the forms, he says, des-
pite the importance which the Code gives
to student evaluations of an instructor’s
teaching ability. As a result, the new
prose evaluation forms which the faculty
adopted will greatly diminish his ability:
to discern student opinions.

The College judges a professor’s pro-
fessional attainments chiefly on the basis
of his colleagues’ evaluations and gives
all manner of advanced study and re-
search due consideration.

Unlike a great many schools, how-
ever, Davidson does not award salary in-
creases relative to the amount of work
that a professor publishes. The process
here is much more subjective, since qual-

ity is supposed to be given more consid-

Peggy Pierotti

T. C. Price Zimmermann

eration than quantity.

In judging “intellectual and moral
values,” the Code requires an examina-
tion of the instructor’s concern for stu-
dents, service to the College, and general
community service.

“Concern for students may be
exemplified by the . . . [professor’s]
availability to students, concern for their
problems, and care and promptness in
evaluating their work.” Performance “as
a faculty adviser both to underclassmen
and to majors” is also considered.

The Code goes on to classify service
to the College as “participation in the
work of faculty committees and in de-
partmental affairs, willingness to speak
to groups of parents, trustees, or alumni,
[and] helping to build the library collec-
tion and to obtain needed equipment.”

The Code describes the necessary
community involvement in much more
vague terms, defining it as activity in
churches and service and political or-
ganizations.

The salary decisions involve a
“whole knowledge of the faculty built up
over the entire year,” said Zimmermann.

The final salary recommendations are.

merely the last stage in a year-long pro-
cess of active evaluation.

Since he has not yet completed the
salary recommendations for President
Spencer, Zimmermann cannot say what
next year’s average salary or average sal-
ary increase will be. This year’s average
salary is $27,869, and the average salary
increase from the 1981-82 school year
was 11.6 percent for continuing faculty.

Zimmermann points out, however,
that the salary is only one component of
an instructor’s compensation. The bene-
fits computed into a faculty member’s
total compensation include full health in-

surance, tuition grants for their children,
a mortgage interest subsidy, and possible
use of College-owned housing. With the
value of these benefits added to his sal-
ary, the average Davidson professor will
receive $34,500 this year. (See chart.)

Still, this figure is lower than the
compensation offered by some other
schools of Davidson’s caliber. Average
faculty compensation at Duke for this
year is $43,192; at Williams, $39,288; at
Bowdoin, $36,015; and at Princeton,
$43,009.

Zimmermann, however, claims that
Davidson’s low cost of living greatly re-
duces this disparity. In a memorandum
prepared for prospective faculty, he cites
a 1981 study by the American Chambers
of Commerce Researchers Association
which shows that Charlotte “had the low-
est cost-of-living index of any city
covered in the survey in the 200,000-
400,000 population range.” Among the
cities more expensive to live in than
Charlotte are Durham, _ Raleigh,
Winston-Salem, Nashville, and Hous-
ton.

The memorandum states that “the
figure for Davidson, if available, would
be even lower than that of Charlotte be-
cause of the difference between small-
town and city living.” The cost-of-living
index is based on the cost of groceries,
housing, utilities, transportation, health
care, and “miscellaneous goods and ser-
vices.”

As he nears the end of his task, Zim-
mermann knows that it will be impossi-
ble to satisfy everyone completely. Com-
plaints about salary should be directed to
him or Spencer. When asked about com-
plaints, he said that they are rare. Zim-
mermann and Spencer oversee the grie-
vance procedure.
