The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983 3

Computer Services Director Robert DeSieno

Ban Recommended
on Organizations’
Computer Use

By DAVID RESNIK

Computer Services Director Robert
DeSieno recommended earlier this week
that student organizations not be allowed
to use the Prime 750 Computer because
the computer “ought to be used for in-
structional and research” purposes.

DeSieno suggested that student or-
ganizations purchase and use their own
“micro computer network” to carry out
their operations. He said he wanted to
prevent student organizations from be-
coming dependent on the Prime 750 be-
cause once students started using the
computer, it would be an “irreversable
process.”

Chemistry Professor and Associate
Dean of the Faculty J.N. Burnett, who is
in charge of faculty computer policy,
will consider DeSieno’s recommenda-
tion and pass it on to Vice-president for
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Facul-
ty T. C. Price Zimmermann after making
his own judgements, which will not hap-
pen until the end of April, said DeSieno.

A few weeks ago, SGA President
Hunter Monroe sent a letter to more than

fifteen campus organizations in order to
“find out what need campus organiza-
tions have for computer resources.”
Monroe says the letter suggested how or-
ganizations might use computers, but it
didn’t specify which computer (the ad-
ministrative computer or the Prime 750)
the organizations would use.

In a letter to Monroe on March 11,
College President Samuel Spencer said
that it “will be possible for student or-
ganizations to have access” to the admin-
istrative unit as soon as Prime comes up
with a procedure “that will solve the se-
curity problem” on the administrative
unit.

Monroe said the skills students learn
from using computers for campus or-
ganizations would be the skills they
would “be more likely to use” after
graduation than academic computing
skills. He said the College should be
committed to computer literacy, not just
to academic computing. He hopes that a
policy on computer use will be worked
out soon and that it can be implemented
next fall.

SGA Revises By-Laws

Election campaign rules were the
focus of by-law revisions at Tuesday's
SGA meeting. Changes which the SGA
approved concerned:

‘Posters and flyers. Candidates for
Honor Council. Defense Advisor, and
Student Solicitor may not use posters or
flyers in their campaigns. Any candidate
violating this new regulation will auto-
matically be disqualified. The SGA rec-
ommended that candidates go door to
door to announce candidacy.

‘Candidate list. The SGA will pub-
lish a list of all candidates for all Honor
Council positions within 48 hours after
the candidate meeting held a week before

the election.

‘Election funding. Candidates in any
SGA-run election may spend no more
than $20.00 on campaigning, and candi-
dates for class, dorm, or off-campus pos-
itions may spend no more than $15.00.

In other by-law changes, two seniors
and one junior will now be elected to the
Review Board, a revision in accordance
with changes the Honor Council made
earlier this year.

Another by-law revision now re-
quires that students holding Senate-ap-
pointed offices submit written minutes
‘on’ their committee's activities once per
term to the SGA President.

Humphries wins Derieux

Research Award

By DALE WITHROW

Sophomore Biology Major Chris
Humphries has won the Derieux Re-
search Award in the Category of organis-
mal biology from the Collegiate
Academy of the North Carolian
Academy of Science.

Humphries attended the Academy's
annual meeting at Chapel Hill on April 9
and presented a 15-minute talk culminat-
ing his research with spiderlings (young
spiders) at Davidson.

Humphries began working with Biol-
ogy Professor Donald Kimmel last year.
He submitted a grant proposal to NCAS
during the spring term. Humphries won a
$90 grant; Kimmel believes Humphries
is the first freshman to receive such a
grant at Davidson.

Humphries further pursued his re-
search during the current academic year.
He explored the question of whether the
spiderlings’ orientation on their webs
was influenced by gravity or web mor-
phology.

Humphries answered the question in
his paper at Chapel Hill entitled: “The
change in attitude with respect to gravity
of Nephila clavipes spiderlings.” He
concluded that web morphology influ-
enced the spiderlings’ orientation.

According to Humphries, only fif-
teen minutes were allotted because the
CANCAS judges wanted presenters to
“organize and present data concisely and
thoroughly — ideally in ten minutes.
And allow five minutes for discussion
questions from the judges.”

When asked about winning the
award, Humphries said, “Well, I don’t

eee

a a

6 8 m/l » :

Sophomore Chris Humphries

By Peggy Pierotti

>is

want to sound corny, but I was surprised!
But getting a paper published (in Canas)
will be great for med school. That's very
important to me.”

As for Kimmel’s response, Hum-
phries decided to announce his award
lightly. He entered Kimmel’s office one
day as if though nothing happened. Then
after a “Well?” from Kimmel, Hum-
phries expressed how he should have
prepared a couple more days for the pre-
sentation but hoped he would accept hon-
orable mention. Kimmel congratulated
him. Then he broke the real news. Kim-
mel was ecstatic.

Humphries plans to pursue further re-
search based on his recent findings dur-
ing his next two years at Davidson.

JY A Student Injured
in Moped Accident

By DAN VOORHIS

Junior Year Abroad student Chris
Gunn was hit by acar in Montpellier. Fr-
ance last Friday afternoon. He under-
went surgery last Saturday to put a pin in
his left ankle. and tests are now being
conducted to determine the extent and
seriousness of his injuries.

Gunn may have sustained multiple
fractures in his leg, according to senior
Mary Ann Gelly. He has also experi-
enced numbness in his fingers and an in-
flamed eye which may not have been a
result of the accident. Tests on both the
eye and leg should be completed by
Monday.

The accident occurred when Gunn
was riding a moped owned by fellow stu-
dent junior Elizabeth Smiley. A car be-
hind him honked, seeking to pass. Mis-
understanding the signal, Gelly turned to
the left, and the car hit him while pas-
sing. The impact knocked Gunn across
the car’s hood, through the windshield,
and into the driver’s lap.

Junior Chris Gunn

Gunn's father, Dr. James W. Gunn
of Peekskill, New York. flew to
Montpellier last Saturday morning.

If the tests results are encouraging.
Gunn could return to his home by late
next week. Therapy will probably be
necessary. Depending on his recovery.
he may return to Davidson next fall.
