The Davidsonian/Friday, September 16, 1983 — 13

A Most Sacred Tradition: The Fine Print

By DAVID VAN PELT

All those involved with Davidson College have be-
come highly attuned to the school’s coveted Honor
Code, as the regulation is frequently presented in litera-
ture, speeches, ceremonies, and strip-tease acts in the
Davidson area, yet few realize that the common delinea-
tion of the Honor Code (that all students shall refrain
from lying, stealing, cheating, withholding information,
and putting on dark glasses and imitating Ray Charles)
does not represent the full range of activities prohibited
by the Honor Code. There are many arcane and less pub-
licized acts which also constitute a violation of the
Honor Code and are punished just as severely as a well-
known offense. ,

Obviously, a more complete knowledge of forbid-
den activities behooves every responsible student. Just
think of the multitude of students whose lives were
forever ruined by their ignorance of the 1974 ammend-
ment banning mood rings. With this in mind, I will pro-
ceed to outline just a few of the lesser known and fre-
quently violated articles of the hallowed assimilation of
basic moral and ethical tenets which we breathlessly
refer to as the Honor Code.

One activity forbidden by the Davidson Honor Code
and probably performed every day by a great many you,
unaware of its hazardous ramifications if detected by one

well-versed in the Honor Code, is dental flossing. This
seemingly innocuous act of dental hygiene was pros-
cribed by the founders of Davidson in the very first
Honor Code. These devout men, who adopted for the
fledgling school the maxim “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta
Libertas” (or, translated from the Latin, “Let Learning
be Cherished Where Lake-Side Condos have Arisen’)
were acutely sensitive to the effect which string en-
twined in the molars and incisors could have on one’s
personal rectitude. This article of the Honor Code, still
retained, reads as follows, “Let no man herewith insert
or in any way produce any wire-like substance between
his teeth, as such an act has proven to cause stimulations
inimical to one’s fellow man, sacred institutions, and the
Eternal Father.” It would be wise to keep this edict in
mind, or sparkling teeth could result in a premature de-
parture from Davidson.

A common practice of students everywhere is the
frequent disparagement, in jest or seriousness, of their
instructors. Davidson students may be distressed to
know that all such references to their professors,
whether jokingly or not, are also prohibited by the Honor
Code. Though not part of the original tract, this appen-
dage was deemed necessary in 1858, when Osgood
Flaughtery, a mild-mannered divinity student, made
several uncouth remarks concerning his English profes-

sor. “He has a prodigiously rotund physique”, Osgood
jocosely remarked to a friend (here I am quoting from the
Davidson court record), “and moves with a sort of lum-
bering urgency which can only be likened to that of a
wounded pachyderm.”” An amendment forbidding such
insolence was quickly added to the Honor Code, though
Flaughtery was allowed to continue at Davidson in ill re-
pute until his dismissal less than 8 months later when
convicted of eating grapes and spitting the seeds out al
strangers, another Code transgression.

Though I will not attempt to give detailed descrip-
tions of these prohibited acts, other Davidson Honor
Code bans include tandem bicycling (suffice it to say a
1962 accident convinced school officials of the perils in-
herent in this endeavor), baking bread in dormitory
rooms (I have no idea when this subject reared its ugly
head), and levitating on campus (if it ever occurred, the
results could spell disaster).

As these are not all the activities covered by the
Honor Code, and space ts limited, I will reserve a com-
plete list of forbidden activities, as well as other interest-
ing facts about the Davidson Honor Code including the
oft-forgotten Honor Code anthem (this rousing number
is rarely heard on campus, though it has been adopted as
the theme song for the T.V. game show Tartletales). for
another time.

> DAVIDSON »¥&

Parking Lot at Griffith & N. Main St

campus. Good income,

Fri.

Sept. 23

One Day Only!
Shows at

Mooresville, NC 28115

COLLEGE REP WANTED to distribute
“Student Rate” subscription cards at this

CLASSIFIEDS

Tutor needed for 8th grade boy — all subjects.
Must have own transportation, 399-5308. Hun-

no selling in- tersville. Male preferred

volved. For information send a self-ad-
dressed, stamped envelope to: Allen S.
Lowrance, Director, 251 Glenwood Dr.,

Wanted: Roommate to share an efficiency apart-
ment in Cornelius. Less than 2.5 miles from
campus and very reasonable. Only there half of
the ime and want someone to share expenses.

6 & 8 p.m.

Davidson College Union
PRESENTS

~ SAVE! SAVE

Buy Advance Tickets
Price At Door |STUDENT TICKETS:
$4°°|¢3.00 in advance

3° |$3.50 at the door

JAN DAVIS EQUESTRIAN CENTER is
now Offering excellent boarding facilities.
English and Western riding lessons.
Within walking distance of the campus.
Grey Road, Davidson. 892-7162.

For Sale: Sofa bed. Good condition. 892-
8069 or extension 109.

Saturday, Sept. 17: BIG YARD SALE.
Stephenson home on Pine Road. 10 am
until ? Rain Date. Sept. 24. Something for
everyone.

| lost a brand new economics book, Histor)
of Economic Theory which was picked up in
front of Chambers Thursday night. If found
please contact Ted Garner S305 -6669

PHI GAMMA DELTA FALL WORKDAYS
begin this week. For but $3.00 an hour we will
do whatever yardwork, cleaning, painting, etc.
You need at your convenience. For details con-
tact Marshall at 892-6580.

Did you know that the Davidson Outing Club
loans out all sorts of outdoors equipment? Well,
we do! The equipment room (in the basement of

the Union) is open from 7-8 pm on Tuesday and
Thursday evenings.

i NEW

{ HAIR DESIGNERS

STUDIO
237- Catawba AC.
Cornelius
(In rear of the Southem
Energy Bullding)

td
| MON-SAT 10 AM Until
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE
5.00

HAIR CUT & STYLE
$5.00 off
(Male & Female)

No phone y et so send reply to PO Box 1162 in
Cornelius or leave message at desk in care of Jett
Kistler

Medium sized retrigerator for rent S40 tor
year. Call 892-5355

FOR SALE: Compact refrigerator. Very good
condition, 892-8674

The Tom Clark Studio needs two students to
mind the store and tend the caton Saturdays and
occassional weekdays. Please call 892-5859 or
3036

some AM’s
and PM’s and weekends. Must be loving. pa-

Babysitter needed. Time vary

tient, organized and responsible. Call 892-0492

¢ forme... ctaitsp

The Davidsonian offers free classifieds to
all members of the Davidson community.
To place an ad, call 892-2000 ext. 148, or
bring the information to the Davidsonian
offices at the top of the Grey Student

Union.

PERMANENT WAVE
1/2 OFF

No Appointment Necessary
Stylist Rachael Elliott .

Call 892-3129 or 692-4962
SA OE @ AE Rh © aN @ RS
