12 Friday, April 15, 1983/The Davidsonian

es
IME .

By MATT MORRIS
Ragtime (1981) Produced by Dino de
Laurentiis. Directed by Milos For-
man. Starring Howard Rollins,
Elizabeth McGovern, James Olson,
Mary Steenbergen, Brad Dourif,
Mandy Patinkin, James Cagney, Nor-
man Mailer, Donald O’Connor, and
Pat O’Brien. Music by Randy New-
man. Showings: 8 and 10:30 Friday,
Love Auditorium. Rating: ****

Milos Forman’s Ragtime is de-
lightful entertainment. Throughout its
short two-hour running time, Ragtime
encompasses every grace and dis-
grace imaginable in the American
heart and soul. My hat is off to
Czechoslovakian director Forman be-
cause — as proved with Hair and The
Fireman's Ball — he can capture the
beauty and mystery of life, whether it
be 1913 or 1983, that make it worth
the living. Ragtime is one of those rare
films that balances amusement with
enlightenment and leaves the viewer
with an effect that won’t go away after
the lights are turned on.

Based on E.L. Doctorow’s fas-
cinatingly stark novel, Ragtime, in its
transformation to the screen, has un-
dergone major changes in plot and
character development, and all for the
better. The story is a collage of differ-
ent lives intertwining and all the emo-
tional revelations that rumble out of
this slice-of-life stew. Evelyn Nesbit
(Elizabeth McGovern) has had a
slightly illicit affair with the infamous
architect Stanford White (Norman
Mailer!), which soon pushes _ her
psychotic husband Harry K. Thaw

Evelyn Nesbit (Elizabeth McGovern) disappears into 1913 in this scene

Milos Forman goes for baroque

from Milos Forman’s brilliant film Ragtime

(Sid Luft) over the edge. Meanwhile,
a quaint New Rochelle family finds
life suddenly more complicated when
they stumble across a black baby in
their garden (shocking!). The
“younger brother” of this family
(they’re never referred to by name)
has seen his rebel-without-a-cause in-
stinct grow in the form of Evelyn Nes-
bit.

From here Ragtime takes off,
plunging right into early 20th-century
New York, looking to the right and
left, and like the kaleidoscope it re-
sembles, ultimately puzzling the vie-
wer. But all of life, Forman seems to
be saying, is a struggle, and what a de-
lightful odyssey itis! There’s a beauti-
ful scene where an immigrant cele-
brates his first job as a movie‘maker
with his tiny daughter and says of
film, “For a couple of pennies, people
see in a short time the whole life of the

Flesh and Fantasy

By JOHN MARKS

Arthur Penn’s Bonnie and Clyde
is a violent but paradoxically lyrical
pzan to the mythical outlaw of Amer-
ican folklore. That’s a mouthful of
film jargon, I know, but hear me out.

Penn’s tale revolves around two
lonely, bored people, Clyde Barrow
and Bonnie Parker, who decide to go
on a rampage in the same grand trad-
tion as Charlie Starkweather and his
girlfriend. They rob banks, gun down
innocent people, and in the same
breath endear themselves to the rural
Texams and Oklahomans for their
Robin Hood bravado. Bonnie Parker
hailed from Dallas, Texas, where the
earliest bank robberies took place and
incredibly enough, both she and
Clyde are still somewhat fondly re-
membered by the old-timers.

7 Penn focuses’ on this odd
dichotomy between the personal
charisma of the criminals and their

Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway as Bonnie & Clyde

ruthless degrading and murdering of
humanity. Walter Hill’s The Long
Riders reminds us of this same idea
when half the Missouri countryside
protects the James Gang, its collective
protagonist. In Bonnie and Clyde, we
confront these people personally and
not only see their point of view but
sympathize with them. Life issues to
the audience the same ticket that it is-
sued to Bonnie and Clyde, so we un-
derstand and feel their urgent need to

world, how they live, how they live,
fight, love.” The fact that movies are
no longer a couple of pennies is neg-
ligible. Ragtime redefines everything
as having no definition, and somehow
this is fulfilling.

The acting in Ragtime is brilliant,
each performer realizing where he
stands and ultimately why. Particu-
larly noteworthy is Howard Rollins as
the innocent black piano player whose
tragic flaw is that he’s tired of being
treated like a “nigger,” Rollins’s sol-
iloquy at the end is magical, one of the
few moments in film I can think of
where I fel like standing up and cheer-
ing.

Forman makes magic with the
females in his movie as well. He pre-
sents 20th-ggntury women as we al-
ways knew'tiey were, real human be-
ings, not the stuffy superficial sprites
that seem to populate so many period

break from the monotony.

The problem arises when the sub-
tle balance between this outbreak of
nervous energy and restraint is upset
by the inability of men and women to
control themselves. Bonnie and Clyde
extricate themselves from the law,
and because they do so at the price of
other lives, Penn tells us they must
die. The final scene is a slow-motion
obliteration of the two folk heroes
which, in all its blood-splattered

pieces. Mary Steenbergen’s perfor-
mance as Mother is, like the movie,
charming yet complex. Forman draws
an amazing amount of insight not
from Steenbergen’s words but her ac-
tions. Precocious Elizabeth
McGovern as mentally and morally
incompetent Evelyn Nesbit shows a
real comic flair and poses a threat to
anyone seeking Carole Lombard’s
Queen of Comedy Throne. Her nude
scene is hilarious as McGovern man-
ages to maintain her dignity inspite of
her blatant promiscuity.

And of course there’s James Cag-
ney, who returns to the screen after a
near 20-year hiatus. Time has stolen
Cagney’s physical exuberance but his
machine-gun wit is still there and he is
completely enjoyable. As Younger
Brother, Brad Dourif captures that re-
bellious instinct in us all and his half-
child / half-maniac appearance is per-
fect.-Plaudits also go to Randy New-
man for his lyrical soundtrack. New-
man has always been a shining star in
the universe of generally dismal pop
music (there is life after ‘Short
People”), and his genius is evident
here. The title track, “One More
Hour,” is one of the most hauntingly
beautiful songs I’ve ever heard.

The magic of Ragtime lies, how-
ever, in the hands of Milos Forman.
He has taken Doctorow’s novel, jaz-
zed it up, and broadened its scope so
that it effects more than your deep-
seated voyeur-of-life. The light, the
dark, the abstract — it’s all here, or as
the ad says, “Good times, bad times,
Ragtime.”

glory, rivals Sam Peckinpah’s The
Wild Bunch in sheer, graphic screen
brutality. Penn does have a reason for
this, however — it shows the viewer
how unheroic, how unpretty, how
damnably sad man is in death. With
this, he shows us our Robin as flesh
and blood paying its dues for crimes

- committed.

The film features superb perfor-
mances by Warren Beatty as Clyde
Barrow, Faye Dunaway as Bonnie
Parker, Gene Hackman as Guch Bar-
row, and a fine supporting cast which
includes Estelle Parsons, Gene Wil-
der, and Michael J. Pollard. The char-
acters’ lines are often funny, seldom
boring, yet filled with an overriding
sense of tragedy that gives Bonnie and
Clyde significance. These are two
people who are us and who make the
wrong turn that could be ahead of any-
one. The opportunity become a Bon-
nie and Clyde lies as close as the
nearest bank.

