Human Rights in El Salvador

The State Department has abused the recertification process

By ELIZABETH KISS ’83

El Salvador received a compliment and a prize
from the Reagan Administration three weeks ago. The
compliment: the State Department certified to Con-
gress that the embattled Central American country has
made “progress” in respecting human rights. The
prize: $25 million in military aid to help the Salvadoran
government continue its 3-year war against its guerilla
opposition.

Certification is required by law every six months to
continue U.S. military suppport for El Salvador. The
Administration is expected to request Congress to in-
crease the amount of support later this year.

Twice before, El Salvador has been “certified.”
Twice before, members of Congress, other Western
nations, and human rights organizations including the
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Oxfam
America, and Amnesty International, have condemned
the State Department’s report and the certification pro-
cess.

The U.S. has reaffirmed its military commitment
to the Salvadoran civil war. The Reagan Administra-
tion views this war as a crucial battle between demo-
cracy and communism. Many observers see it as a
struggle between the traditional, repressive military
power structure and a hodge-podge of forces — leftist
and centrist — calling for change, witha hapless civili-
an population caught in the Crossfire. Whichever sce-
nario one accepts, El Salvador must not be ignored.

About 40,000 Salvadoran
civilians have been

murdered since 1979

Our tax dollars and military and F.B.I. personnel are
fueling the Salvadoran government’s war effort. More
importantly, today’s U.S. Latin American policy will
determine what kind of hemisphere we and our child-
ren will live in.

An examination of U.S. aims and actions in El Sal-
vador yields three sobering conclusions:

1) Ideologically and morally, human rights certifi-
cation policy is a hoax.

2) Tactically, it is simplistic and counterproduc-
tive.

3) Good intentions aside, current U.S. policy per-
petuates violence and suffering with no realistic desira-
ble goal in mind.

The hoax of human rights certification is a cruel
one. State Department claims of “progress” rested al-
most entirely on a decline in the number of civilian
noncombatant deaths to 200 per month. About 40,000
Salvadoran civilians have been murdered since 1979.

Amnesty International investigators found that most of
the deaths were linked to government security forces or
death squads operating with the military’s tacit appro-
val. Hardest hit is the rural population, which “suffers
indiscriminate violence in reported attempts (by the
military) to clear zones of all potential support for the
opposition.” (A.J. Report 1982)

While independent monitoring organizations also
noted a decline in political murders last year, their fig-
ures, as in the past, were considerably higher than the
State Department’s—450 per month, for example, ac-
cording to the Salvadoran Roman Catholic church. The
real question is whether hundreds of unexplained
murders in a country the size of Massachussetts can be
called progress. ““The murder of 500 people a month by
groups formally or informally connected to the govern-
ment cannot be seen as acceptable,” the ACLU report
contended.

Progress has been even more dubious in the other
areas specified by the certification law: judicial re-
sponse to human rights violations, investigations of the
murders of 6 Americans, land reform, and military dis-
cipline. For 30,000 civilian murders in the last 3 years
there were 1,500 trials and 200 convictions, according
to the State Department Bulletin. Investigations of the
murders in 1980 and 1981 of 4 American churchwom-
en and 2 agrarian experts appear to be at a standstill.
State Department officials persuaded Congress last
December to drop a bill it had passed requiring a com-
plete progress report on these investigations from the
Salvadoran government. Five national guardsmen ac-
cused of murdering the churchwomen still have not
been tried, while charges against an officer allegedly
responsible for the agrarian experts’ deaths have been
dropped. The three-phase land reform program which
President Reagan a year ago labelled “a remarkable
success” hardly deserves the title: while Phase I is com-
plete, Phase II has been shelved and Phase III is
plagued by lack of support within the Salvadoran Na-
tional Assembly. Land reform is sorely needed. Ac-
cording to former U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador Ro-
bert White, El Salvador has one of the highest percen-
tages of landless people in the world. Phase III, the
most significant aspect of the land reform program, al-
lowing sharecroppers and tenant farmers to apply for
land ownership, expires March 3. According to last
week’s Congressional Quarterly, it will probably not
be renewed.

The irony of U.S. human rights policy is its selec-
tiveness. While right-wing El Salvador is cautiously
commended for only murdering 200 civilians a month,
the leftist Sandinista regime in Nicaragua is portrayed
as a pit of dark communist terror. Careful reading of
Amnesty International reports on each country. reveals
that, while Nicaraguan human rights situation is wor-
sening, torture and abduction are not official policy, as
they were under the U.S.—supported Somoza regime
the Sandinistas toppled—and as they still’are in El Sal-

vador.
\

Pragmatists may argue that it is naive to expect
U.S. human rights policy to have any consistent moral
or ideological substance; like all foreign policy, its
function is tactical. If it is merely a tactic, what is its
purpose? State Department officials appear to view
certification as a way to nudge the Salvadoran govern-
ment toward improving its human rights record.

‘No progress, no guns’-
does this use of certification

policy work?

“No progress, no guns” — does this use of certifi-
cation policy work? In isolated instances, perhaps. The
New York Times reports that last May, when 4,700 pea-
sants were evicted from farms given them under the
land reform program, threats of cutting off aid produc-
ed quick (though not decisive) action: about 2,000
were allowed to return to their land.

Overall, however, U.S. policy places the accent on
guns, not progress. E] Salvador is at war. We have
chosen our side, and our primary objective is military
victory for our side. When military viability is at stake,
we will drop or gloss over human rights considera-
tions, as is obvious from last month’s certification re-
port. Nor is our choice of sides oriented toward reform.
By supporting El Salvador militarily, we are support-
ing the Salvadoran military, the country’s status quo
power structure. Human rights violations are part of
the status quo in El Salvador. Leonel Gomez, formerly
chief advisor to assassinated Salvadoran land reform
agency chief Rodolfo Viera, considers American
hopes for reform within the Salvadoran military illuso-
ry. American advisors are supposed to instruct Salvad-
oran soldiers to be more humane. Gomez argues that
the Salvadoran army is a “vast network of corruption”
united by ties of background and schooling which has
ruled the country for 50 years. (Foreign Policy, Sum-
mer 1981) The Salvadoran military believes in quelling
social unrest in brutally direct ways — 30,000 peasants
slain in a few days in the famous massacre of 1932, 600
in a few hours on the Sumpul River in 1980. There is no
evidence that our human rights policy has led to any
real and lasting changes in conditions in El Salvador.

The internal inconsistency of a “No progress, no
guns” policy points to the tragic weakness of U.S. Sal-
vadoran policy, in general: the absence of any desira-
ble, realistic objective. Perhaps the sole point of con-
sensus among observers of the Salvadoran situation is

(coutnvec on page 1/)

10 THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 February 1983
