4 Friday, March 25, 1983

The Davidsonian

Three New Professors to Arrive this Fall

By BOB LOPER

When Davidson’s new president ar-
rives on campus next fall, he will be

joined by at least three new professors:
History Professor Susan Keefe, Psychol-
ogy Professor Cole Barton, and English
Professor Gail Gibson.

Susan Keefe will join the faculty as
an assistant professor of History and will
teach in the History Department and the
Humanities program. As an expert in
medieval history, she will fill a gap in the
Davidson faculty, according to History
Department chairman Malcolm Lester.
“‘We have not had a full-time medievalist
{at Davidson] in several years.”

Lester says that Keefe’s special inter-
ests include “medieval intellectual and
ecclesiastical history” and the relation-
ship of ritual to medieval society. She
has published articles in the Dictionary
of the Middle Ages and Carolingian Es-
says, and she has also done extensive re-
seach work in Europe at the University of
Miinster and the University of Munich.

Keefe is an unmarried native of Rye,
New York. She will come to Davidson
from the California Institute of Technol-
ogy in Pasadena, where she is now com-
pleting a two-year appointment as a Mel-
lon Instructor of History. She holds a
B.A. degree in History and Classics from
the University of Pennsylvania and an
M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of
Toronto.

Cole Barton will receive an appoint-
ment as an assistant professor of Psy-
chology. Psychology Department Chair-
man Robert Kelton said that Barton will
be replacing Robert Kennedy, who res-
igned over a year ago. Barton’s main
teaching area will be abnormal psuychol-
ogy, but he is also tentatively scheduled
to teach Psychology 102 — Introduction

‘o Personality.

Dog Burns
Hog-tied And
Gasoline Doused

A dog was found hog-tied and burn-
ing on the walkway in front of the Sigma
Phi Epsilon house at 3:00 p.m. on March
17.

According to a Town of Davidson
police report, SPE member Alan Fields
heard a noise outside the fraternity
house. He went to the window and ob-
served two white males running away
and an object burning in front of the
house.

Ken Howarth, another witness, said
he saw “a dog with all four legs tied to-
gether burning on top of a road sign.”

According to the police report the ot-
fenders poured gasoline on the dog and
ignited it. The police also commented,
“It appears that the dog had been dead be-
fore [it was] ignited.”

The police wil continue their investi-
gation tomorrow. Chief Jack Warlick
says he hopes “to know by Friday who
was responsible.”

According to Kelton, Barton is
highly active in publication and research.
He has written and contributed to a large
number of specialized articles, and he
has received numerous research grants.
His particular area of interest and re-
search is family therapy and counseling.

Kelton adds that Barton was “very
highly thought of by the students who
met him” when he visited the Davidson
campus in early February. Judging from
a presentation which Barton gave during
that visit, Kelton thinks that he is an ex-
cellent, effective classroom teacher.

Barton holds B.A. and M.A. degrees
from the University of Utah and will earn
a Ph.D. from Utah before coming to

By JOHN RUPPENTHAL

The Greyhound Bus Company plans
to drop the Davidson stop from the Char-
lotte-Mocresville-Winston-Salem route
because of its low ridership and declining
profits. Greyhound’s proposal would
end all service to Davidson, although a
route would continue to operate from
Charlotte to Winston-Salem via I-77.

As Mayor Nancy MacCormac tried
to point out to the N.C. Public Utilities
Commission at a hearing in Charlotte
Monday night, the deletion of Davidson
from the route will be a hardship for the
handful of residents who depend on the
bus for transportation.

“Our concern is that Davidson is los-
ing our only public transportation and
that a few people will experience signifi-

said. “I felt that the town was responsible
to say something for those who wouldn’t
normally speak up for themselves.”

The N.C. Public Staff asked Mac-
Cormac to assess the impact
Greyhound’s proposal would have on the
community. The Public Utilities Com-
mission will decide in April whether. the

proposal is an acceptable balance be- .

tween public need and company profit.

Greyhound has serviced the commu-
nity of Davidson for over 25 years. Until
1981, the company operated a “terminal”
where customers could buy tickets and
where cargo could be handled and
stored. For 20 years, Ralph Quacken-
bush, owner of The Workbench on Main
Street, managed to divert time from his
job as a furniture repairman to serve as an
agent for Greyhound, selling tickets and
answering phone calls at this part-time
terminal.

He estimates that Greyhound made
between $1000-$1500 a month on the
Davidson stop, but that when the com-
pany decided to end cargo runs to the
area in 1981, schedules become unreli-
able and ridership decreased. He feels
that Greyhound is partly responsible for
the lack of interest in the bus stop.

Several times he has watched the bus
drive by prospective customers who
waited on the wrong side of the road.
Quackenbush has noticed that since he

Davidson. He now teaches as an Instruc-
tor at Utah. Originally from Rule, Texas,
he is married and has three children.

Gail Gibson will come to Davidson
as an Assistant Professor of English. She
is being hired through the MacArthur
Foundation Grant which enables David-
son to attract outstanding young. profes-
sors. She is currently teaching as an as-
sistant professor at Princeton University,
where she has worked since 1975.

Gibson specializes in Middle English
literature and will replace professor Ann
McMillan. Gibson has published widely
in her field and has done extensive re-
search in England.

According to English Department

closed his terminal in 1981 ridership has
decreased as has the number of buses that
travel through the town each day: only
two pass through now compared to six a
few years ago.

Mayor MacCormac recognizes the
problems that low ridership pose to a pri-
vate company. She tried to stress to the
Public Utilities Commission that several
Davidson residents would be seriously
affected by the elimination of the route:
one woman would lose her job of ten
years; another woman would be unable
to keep monthly medical appointments in
Winston-Salem; and several citizens
“would be unable to take care of business
matters requiring monthly trips to Char-
lotte.”

MacCormac also tried to determine

, what impact the elimination of the ser-
cant hardships at the loss,” MacCormac_.”

vice would have on Davidson students.
Only one student admitted to using the
bus on a regular basis, .although several
others use Greyhound to make occa-
sional excursions into Charlotte.
Nevertheless, MacCormac is concerned

3

The Black Student Coalition is sponsoring a student fashion show '
this Sunday evening at 9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Chairman Gill Holland, Gibson is “a real
fine teacher and very well-known as a
scholar.” Holland says that Gibson met
with many students on a recent visit to
Davidson, and that they all seemed very
impressed by her.

Gibson earned her B.A. and M.A.
degrees from Duke University and her
Ph.D. from the University of Virginia.
Holland notes that she minored in art as
an undergraduate, and art is still one of
her major interests.

She will be teaching Humanities,
medieval literature courses, and English
101 at Davidson. She is married to a
medical doctor and has two children.

Greyhound to Discontinue Stop

that those who depend on the bus as their
only form of transportation will be left in
an unfortunate situation that the town is
not equipped to handle.

Although MacCormac admits that it
is unlikely that Utilities Commission will
reject Greyhound’s proposal, all hope for
those seriously affected by the deletion
of the route is not lost. Mecklenburg
County is currently conducting a study to
determine the feasibility of using county
vans to transport citizens from the north-
ern part of the county to human service
agencies in Charlotte.

A possibility exists that a bus service
may be arranged to carry nomadic work-
ers from Davidson and surrounding com-
munities to Charlotte in the morning and
back again in the afternoon. MacCormac
says that the study will be completed by
the end of spring and, depending on the
recommendations that it contains, may
be implemented shortly thereafter. If ad-
ditional employees have to be hired and
vans purchased, the plan will take longer
to initiate.

: 4

4

