Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian 15

TR eee

Divine Judgement And Divine Law

Keith Revell

One of the things I have always admired about Chris-
tianity, or at least what I think of as Christianity, is that it
seems to allow people to be human, fully recognizing
human frailty and the somewhat-less-than-noble tenden-
cies of the acquisitive human spirit, while compelling
them at the same time to move beyond their limitations
onto some higher plane of behavior. It is an attractive as-
pect of the Christian ethical system. This intrigues me
immensely. Not because of what I see as one possible
conversion scenario, but because this flexibility for hu-
manness seems to be forgotten by the most visible and
vocal of Christian practitioners.

It is with this in mind that I put before you a few
thoughts concerning divine judgment and divine law. It
is my understanding that these two things are really very
different from one another; apparently this is not every-
one’s understanding. Divine law is what one might read
in the Bible (and it is the case here also that there is no
consensus opinion as to what the book says). Particu-
larly I am thinking of the multitude of things one might
read therein that one should or should not do, eat, say,
practice, make, or sell. Divine judgment is what God
(whatever that may be, again no consensus) does with
people at some point: a sheep from the goats scene
comes to mind. I think that it is fair to say that at least to
some degree law comes from judgment, as in the setting
of precedents. Also, one can argue that the Bible is really
a chronicle of judgment; and thus, having several
thousand-year history of divine judgment, we actually
know what the divine judge is going to say to us or any-
one else when (or if) the time comes. This is the essential
question I pose: can we know divine judgment?

There is at least on conception of God in which the
Supreme Being appears as a logical, reasonable, be-
nevolent, judicious male figure (a combination of qual-
ities that seems inherently contradictory; let it suffice to
say then that God is logical, reasonable, benevolent, and
judicious). With this in mind, we can assume that if God
has told us not to judge, there must be some good reason
for it. Not that we can mimic divine reasoning, but we
might be able to demonstrate the value of the rule to our-
selves, better understanding its implications.

Graham Greene’s The Heart of the Matter illustrates
this question of judgment quite clearly. Major Scobie,
the protagonist, is a Catholic. In the course of the story
he commits several key sins — adultery, taking the
Eucharist without first confessing, and finally suicide —
for which he surely will be damned. The author does not
seem to think that this is the case, however. Indeed the
conclusion Greene reaches is not that Scobie is damned,
but that we can’t say — can’t judge — because we do not

know why he “sinned.” Clearly Scobie broke divine law
for very good reasons; perhaps good enough that they
justify the wrong done in breaking the law. Greene ends
by saying that humans can only try to live by divine law,
they cannot judge by it: the Catholic church is a
guideline, not an absolute. It represents divine law and
not divine judgment. To speculate on matters of judg-
ment is to probe the mysteries of the mind of God.
Does this mean that Scobie is not damned? It might;
but that is not important here. The significant message of
the book is that we cannot damn him; and we certainly
cannot say whether bad will, even though divine law has
been broken. It is abundantly clear that those reasons
which might justify his actions are known only to him
and to God. Our knowledge of Scobie, were we his con-
temporaries and not readers, would be imperfect. So on
first glance, our judgment of anyone is limited by the
fact that we can only see what they did and not why they
did it — something God might very well take into con-

The Catholic Church is a
guideline, not an absolute.

It represents divine law and
not divine judgements. To
speculate on matters of
judgement is to probe the
mysteries of the mind of God.

sideration. More importantly, we do not know what sec-
ret burden they may be carrying, what the condition of
their spirit is or what things might be shaping their at-
titudes and actions. Only God knows these things.

This applies not only to Catholics but to all of Christ-
endom, and certainly to the Davidson religious commu-
nity. I would encourage those who make judgments on
others — particularly upon those whose faith or commit-
ment to God or God’s work seems less than it should be
or is intended to be — that they may not be able to do this
and remain as righteous as they seem to think they are.
Little do they know of the motivations and intentions of
other people. God may be using them to some end with-
out telling anybody else about it; so let them do as they
will, choosing their own path. If they are on the wrong
one then God will take care of their judgment.

At this point, I would like to use as an illustration one
of my favorite parables, that of the Prodigal Son. By all

manner of measure that I have, the Prodigal Son was not
the sort of fellow who, upon initial consideration, I
would kill my fatted calf in honor of. On a second or
third consideration, he does begin to demonstrate some
merit. The Prodigal Son, upon retum, is a wiser person.
Indeed he is what might be called a more proficient
human: he has worked through his frailty, his shortcom-
ings and has come back a better person. And for these
reasons we need welcome him. It is for the possibility of
these reasons that we cannot judge him as he takes his
share of the family wealth and begins to run amok in an
altogether decadent and intemperate manner. He can
only be expected to be human; time and experience
allow people to see things more clearly; wisdom can be
gained through action — good and evil — not just by
reading the law and holding fast to it. We can call him
rash or hasty or inexperienced or thick-headed; we can-
not call him wrong or judge as would God.

I hope it is at least plausible (after so many words)
that it might be best to avoid speculating on matters of di-.
vine judgment (no matter what the rules say), and that
some persuasive reasons exist concerning why this
might be ‘the case. An even more important point to be
made, I feel, is that we might also want to avoid judg-
ment of ourselves for similar reasons. I do not think we
can judge ourselves as we think God would. We must
must allow for the frailty of the human; we must allow
for the time it takes to become wise, to grow and to
develop. People might best be seen as prodigals in the
span of infinity. There are many right times for commit-
ment; some will come sooner for others than for you.
The sin is not in the lack of devotion now, but in the guilt
or despair that one feels when one cannot be as Christlike
as one would like, when one finds out how human one
really is. This does not mean that one should not strive to
adhere to the law or that one can procrastinate, avoiding
crucial decisions when the time is right. It does mean
that we should forgive ourselves and others, turning the
other cheek, rather than judging. There is perhaps a
greater sin in guilt or despair than in failure to be perfect
or to meet with one’s expectations, or one’s conception
of right.

Perhaps. Again, I do not wish to speculate on divine
thought, nor do I wish to justify the laws of God to any-
one. I can only offer this one possible conception of
judgment in hopes that it might provide for someone an
alternative view of things. A view that might allow them
to find their own answer amidst their own difficulties: to
forgive themselves and others, finally realizing that they
know not what they do.

»

Revell is a junior economics major from Miami Lakes,
Fl. He says he is not a Christian.

CROP

To the Editor:

INCREDIBLE! Despite the biting
cold and the pouring rain last Sunday,
112 participants courageously braved the
elements to do their part in the fight
against world hunger. And on top of that,
people were smiling the whole way! The
festivities started with a Fun Rynat 2:00.
The top three winners in the men’s and
women’s divisions were for men: Todd
Cowdery, first; Frank Hague, second;
Jim Vanderzee, third. Women’s winners
were Sarah Patterson, first; Tamara
Foreman, second; Meg Short, third.

The 10K walk, although wet, had its
high points ... like hot chocolate in

Richardson Lounge with Nancy Rosselot
and her Brownies, and: water: at Bill
Bolding’s house (nice dog, Bill). Lisa
Cash finished the 10K first — only be-
cause Tim McGaughey and Allison Moy
became befuddled on the last mile of the
course. A Wrong turn at the school and
we sent them back to Go! Carl Rist had
an amazing finish at 4th — considering
he started 10 minutes late and detoured
by way of the Fiji house. Emanon was
out in full force for the event. But Stu,
James, and Debbie — when you finish,
please let us know.

On the whole, it really was a great
day and well worth the time and effort.
Results from the Eating House challenge
will be posted on November 6, when all
returns are in.

We hope to collect $3,500 from those

who participated. However, we are en-
couraging everyone who didn’t walk to
try and collect pledges from their spon-

sors anyway. If they were willing toa,

pledge in the first place, they'll still sup-
port CROP! We could still reach our goal
of $5,000 if those who didn’t walk come
through for us! ‘

Finally, we'd like to recognize
Mayor MacCormac, Isaac Applewhite,
Tom Kazee, Sterling Martin, WDAV,
the EMTs, The Davidsonian, The Track
Club, The Town Police, Davidson Dry
Goods, and all of the community for their
time, support and cooperation.

Again, thanks to all who made CROP
Walk/Run ’83 a success!

Appreciatively yours,
Laeta Kalogridis
Beth Maczka

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We'try to print all let-
ters of general interest, but we adhere |.
to certain guidelines: neatly typed,
signed letters must be in our hands by 7
p.m. Tuesday. Please include author’s
phone number and address. If you
have a compelling reason for us to
withhold your name, explain your situ-
ation to the editors. We reserve the
right to edit letters for length or clarity.

