14. Friday, April 29, 1983 / The Davidsonian

[ |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Pandora’s Box

As soon as Davidson recognizes a problem, it forms a study
committee which may ponder the subject or even present a propo-

sal. But more often than not, the College delays action pending |

further investigation.

Check out The Davidsonian’s headlines for the last few weeks:
‘Faculty Delays Action On Semesters,” “SGA Tallies Patterson
Court Survey,” ‘““PCSC Begins New Poll,” “No Student Evaluation
Forms This Term,” “Policy for Non-registrants Undecided.” Un-
fortunately, most of the biggest news stories this year have been
that nothing happened; a decision has been put off for another
week, or another year. We considered running last week’s paper
again this week with the date changed.

Students, faculty, and administrators have all been guilty of
this indecisiveness. The faculty and administration have taken two
terms to not come up with an official faculty evaluation system.
The SGA can’t even decide how to decide about self-selection.
Most faculty members and administrators won’t talk about imple-
menting the semester system because it is still “tentative” after six
months.

As aresult of all this procrastinating, Davidson’s next president
will inherit a Pandora’s box of unresolved conflicts. The Trus-
tees have named an interim president, and the College will proba-
bly be on “hold” for the next few months. An institution seeking a
new president will naturally refrain from setting long-term policy,
but it shouldn’t be an excuse to let problems linger.

Davidson will probably change more tn the next two years than
it has since Spencer arrived fifteen years ago. The College commu-
nity must confront these changes without hesitation.

Free Speech

Three times this year the Honor Council and Review Board
have ordered students to write letters of apology to The Davidso-
nian as part of the sanctions given them. We received the third one
of the year this week. When we received the first one last term we
had reservations but printed it anyway. After some thought we
have decided to print no further letters ordered by the Honor Coun-
cil.

The most compelling reason behind our decision is that we do
not want The Davidsonian to be used as a disciplinary device. Our
letters page should not act as a means of officially punishing some-
one.

We also feel that the letters should be a free forum of what
people wish to say. If someone is ordered to write a letter at threat
of expulsion, it can hardly be considered free expression. We will,
however, print freely written letters of apology.

The Honor Council is justified in seeking an apology if some-
one offends the College community. We strongly object, however,
when a letter to The Davidsonian becomes part of a normal sanc-
tion. That is not what we want our letters page to do.

== == =
Self—Selection
To the Editor: port any organization whose precepts

We would like to express our agree-
ment with the statements conerning self-
selection made by President Spencer at
Spring Convocation. His remarks sup-
ported the concept of self-selection at
Davidson and encouraged its enforce-
ment.

We realize that as human beings we
are bound to have prejudices when we
evaluate others; however, we do not wish
to see Davidson College condone the
judgment and rejection of some students
by institutionalizing those prejudices ina
bid system. Any such support would
seem to contradict the Christian princi-
ples upon which the College was
founded. Fraternities at Davidson pro-
vide a valuable social outlet; they pro-
duce many campus leaders, and they
sponsor needed service projects. We do
not believe, however, that selectivity
need be the basis of their brotherhood.

Fraternities can attract enthusiastic
and dedicated members through the al-
ready existing Patterson Court self-selec-
tion system. If fraternities cannot con-
vince their national headquarters that
they are meeting selectivity require-
ments, they should realize that the Col-
lege itself is under no obligation to sup-

differ appreciably from those of the
school. It is rather the responsibility of
the social unit wishing to remain inde-
pendent from Davidson’s ethical require-
ments to find support for itself. In any
event, a brotherhood need not be vali-
dated by a national charter.

Since all Davidson students help fi-
nance the property and facilities used by
the on-campus fraternities, we do not be-
lieve that these organizations have a
“natural right” to be selective. The exis-
tence of a house on Patterson Court is a
privilege that should be granted only
when all Davidson students have an
equal opportunity to eat at and use that
house. We appeal to all students, alumni,
faculty, and trustees to recognize that
self-selection can work with more vigor-
ous enforcement and that any form of a
bid system on campus would be a step
backwards for Davidson College.

Mike Allan °83
Edward Hay °86
Pete Skillern °85

Nancy Rosselot ’85
David Boone °83
Harriett Gastin °84
Mike Mason °83
Andrew Wells ’84

Love It Or Leave It

To the Editor:

Would you be so kind as to assist us
in relaying this message to Mr. Matt
Morris. Thank you.

Dear Matt,

We the believers in Truth, Justice,
and the:American Way have something
we'd like to tell you. If you are as you
say, a “United States hater,” then why

don’t you pack your bags and (pardon the
expressign) “Haul ass!”

P.S. We'd be glad to help you pack!

Sincerely yours,

Bob Letton

Ernest Andrews

B.F. Pope III

and thirty others

[A list of signatures is on file at the

Davidsonian office. }
