18 Friday , September 16, 1983/The Davidsonian

eae

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914 ,

Black Woman Trustee

The gallery of Trustee photographs at the souch end of Chambers il-
lustrates how the College is beginning to expand its views about geo-
graphy, race, and gender. Amid the sea of Southern, white, professional
men appears Thelma Adair — Davidson’s only black woman Trustee.

Davidson has traditionally looked to Southern, upper-class men for
much of its faculty, administrators, and trustees. This orientation will
have to change if the student body changes.

Appointing a non-Southern, non- business-oriented, non-male, non-
white Trustee could represent a significant step for Davidson. Adair’s
appointment may be a part of the push toward making Davidson a nation-
ally known college. As rising tuition erodes Davidson’s applicant pool,
and students seek institutions with more diversity, such a transformation
may become necessary. With this year’s freshman class as an example,
Davidson seems to be reaching beyond its trz.ditional sources.

But Adair’s appointment may be a fluke, a one-shot deal. Unless
Trustees from varied backgrounds come to Davidson, the Trustees’
homogeneity will conflict with the increasing diversity of the student
body. The backgrounds of the Trustees should match those of the Col-
lege’s students, but the discrepancy is growing with.each class. Five
hundred women attend Davidson, yet in 10 years only two women of 48
have been appointed Trustees. Only two Trustees come from non-South-
ern states while 30 percent of Davidson’s 1400 students are not from the
South. .

Suppose Davidson progresses from a regional institution into a truly
national one while the majority of the Trustees continue to come from the
South. The appointment of nonstereotypical trustees such as Thelma
Adair will appear to be only token gestures, and not part of a real com-
mitment to assimilating previously disenfranchised groups into the
Davidson community. If that happens} Davidson will never be anything
but a good regional school.

Semesters 101 =~

Most upperclassmen have already heard more about the semester
system conversion than they care to, especially the seniors. They’ll be
gone before any of that happens. If you’re a senior, this may a good place
to stop and move on to the comics. Otherwise, read on.

Last Spring, long after Davidson students finished their exams and
weeks past the last Davidsonian deadline, the Faculty approved the cur-
rent incarnation of the semester system. (See front page story for de-
tails.)

The current scheme does not provide enough time for exams. Four

exam days with one reading day for three exams does not compare well -

with five days for five exams with no reading day. We are confident you
will agree after your first bout of exams.

The SGA is now calling for seven days for exams and two reading

days. Some compromise should be possible between the two Faculty and |

SGA proposals.

We support the SGA Semester Implementation Committee in its ef-
forts to lengthen the exam period to something close to reasonable.
Davidson is already enough: of an, academic pressure cooker without
cramming more pressure into the exam period.

But most of us don’t really care: When this all hits the fan we’ Il be off
in the real world earning bucks to contribute to the phonathon (more on

that later). If ever there were an issue for freshman to get invoived in, this” -

is it. That humes assignment might look awfully important now, buta lit-

tle bit of time spent lobbying a professor or working with the SGA could ~

pay off untold dividends.

euaheemnumeneshans
SIERO

=e ae

Curriculum Requirements

’ Fo the Editor:

During this.year the Curriculum Re-
quirements Committee will follow the
standard set by the Faculty Executive
Committee and permit a reduced course
load for seniors during only one term in
the year when the only reason given is
that the student has excess credit. For
other adequate reason each case is judged
on its merits.

Some perspective will help in under-
standing the situation. Davidson wishes
to make best use of its resources and one
evidence of that is the standing require-
ment that three courses is the normal stu-
dent load, and exceptions must have in-
dividual approval by the Curriculum Re-
quirements Committee. Davidson does
not want any significant number of part-

time students, in contrast to some col-

leges which want to attract part-time stu-
dents. It was only several years ago that
excess credit per se began to be accepted
as adequate for a reduced load. Since
then the number of seniors with excess
credit has grown because of student par-
ticipation in Advanced Placement, our
several summer programs, extra course

registration, and transfer credit. It was |
thought that the no-reduction-in-tuition
would work to control the number of
part-time students, but it has not worked
out that way. In fact about 175 seniors
(half the senior class) took advantage of
that option last year. The Executive
Committee thought the situation had de-
veloped in ways not intended and there-
fore took its corrective action. Another
factor is that eligibility for certain finan-
cial support and other situations depends
on full time enrollment. If there are
enough excess Credits the students might
not need to be enrolled for all three
terms. :

It is our hope that when seniors have
the opportunity to do so they will do
more than the minimum for graduation.
There are many courses and professors
that the senior “never had time for be-
fore.” It is a commendable trait which
leads one to do more than the minimum.
May it continue to be evident at David-
son. :

Richard C. Burts, Jr.
Curriculum Requirements
Committee

Chairman,

ad

Thanks—and Beyond

To the Editor:
It was great when it all began . . . and

it was great even in the end. My Junior
Year Abroad in Montpellier was brought
to a surprise close last April—a close that
was not too pleasant, but-a*close that
could have been much, much worse. |
am thankful for lots.

Hoping not to imitate a garrulous
actor upon receiving an Emmy Award, I
will get to the point: My fellow JY A’ers

tion soared. I soon changed hospitals and

countries and the concern continued— ~

now through phone calls, postcards, and
tete—a-tete visits. I never felt or thought
that it was Me Against The Cruel World.
-| was not alone. That was clear.

About the time Davidson was wrap-
ping up another school year, my family
received a suspicious—looking white
“envelope.. Enclosed was a sizeable check
made out to Ma Bell and a letter explain-

art Hother dit Catherine Sttcdtt Cate w** fie TOW _thTS ~ “gin Was” a” ‘pracudal “and

my immediate aid with memorable hos- .

pital visits, handmade chocolate chip
cookies, incredible books, powerful

. pizza, and my favorite French pastries. _
Seeing this as a timely excuse to practice _

his French, my father soon arrived, and
he and Homer handled all the insurace,
medical, legal, and educational details.
Then the warm wave of transcontinental
concern washed in from the U.S. Friends
and family sent cards, telegrams, and let-
ters across an ocean that no longer
seemed unconquerable. With all this
positive power, my humor and motiva-

physical display ofconcern. The touch-
ing typed letter was signed “Chris’
Davidson Family.” And three months
later, still the concern continues . . .

Now to sound like that actor nerv-
ously fondling his Emmy before the thin,
dark microphone: I want to thank Mom
and Dad, my Montpellier, Davidson,
and Peekskill families, and all those who
helped to make my Recovery Road short
and smooth. Your concern, thoughts,
and love were invaluable. Thank you,
and beyond.

Chris Gunn

The Davidsonian welcomes letters

of general interest, but we adheree to
these four guidelines: 1) We require that

{letters be in our hands by 7 p.m. Tues-

day. 2) We require that letters be neatly

Tooea 3): We require that letters be
signed. and include the author's phone

number and address. If you have a com-

Letters Policy

from its readers. We try to print all letters name, explain your situation to the

pelling reason for us to withhold your

editors. 4) We reserve the right not to
print letters that a) function as advertise-
ments; b) contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a view-
point very similar to that expressed in
other letters printed on the same topic.

