THE DAVIDSON LAN

Volume L LXXIl, Number 1 "1 The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 4 February 1983

Faculty Drops ICES Forms

Favors a motion to adopt a prose evaluation form

By DAVID RESNIK ’85
and JEFFREY MANN ‘84

The Faculty approved a Profession-
al Affairs Committee (PAC) proposal to
drop the Illinois Course Evaluation Sys-
tem (ICES) forms from student course
evaluations by a vote of 47-24 during its
meeting Tuesday.

The Faculty also voted in favor of a
motion to adopt a prose evaluation
form.

“The reduction of such a sensitive
and complex matter as instruction and
the dynamic of teaching to numerical
scoring seemed essentially wrong,” said

Religion Professor and PAC Chairman
~ Alexander McKelway.

Vice President for Academic Af-
fairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price
Zimmermann does not welcome the
change, however. “It will make faculty

". eval¥ation- much more difficult, I’m.
sorry to see the present instrument dis-

carded,” he said. “The new form will re-
duce student input in the faculty evalua-
tion process.’

SGA Vice President Boe Young ’83
feels that dropping the form “won’t
create any major problems as far as the
students are concerned because they
will still have input into faculty evalua-
tions.”

SGA President Tim Johnston could
not attend the faculty meeting, accord-
ing to Young, because he had a “job in-
terview that was rescheduled at the last
minute.”

McKelway said the PAC believes
the ICES forms were not “compatible
with what was being measured.” He
says that the global questions, the three
at the beginning of the form “measure a
sense of student approval but it tells you
nothing.”

In order to competently evaluate a
professor, according to McKelway, one
must know the “reasons for the judge-
ment” not just “the judgement itself.”

He feels that an evaluation carries
more meaning “when a student ex-
presses himself” instead of blankly ac-
cepting “pre-fabricated answers.”

McKelway also explained that the
ICES forms are statistically inaccurate
when applied to a course with less than
thirty students. The results produce a
curve that is skewed toward higher rat-
ings. Most Davidson students rate their
teachers “fairly highly,” says McKel-
way, but one student in opposition
“moves the curve down drastically.”

~ Zimmermann and the PAC recom-

mended the ICES forms in September,
1979, but the faculty rejected it. Student
evaluation forms were phased out fall
term 1975.

After the faculty rejected the forms,
the SGA instituted their own evaluation
system for professors who chose to par-
ticipate. “‘We are weary of the procrasti-
nation on this issue,” said then-SGA

President John Jackson. The faculty .

adopted the ICES forms a month later.

“The virtue of the ICES forms is that
it recorded views of not just students
who specifically had something to say,
but provided a benchmark of all student
opinion,” Zimmermann said. “It pro-
vides a regular sampling term in and
term out.”

Zimmermann also said “many stu-
dents will fear that anonymity will be
lost,” since professors may recognize
students’ handwriting. He was also con-
cerned that the “Dean [of Academic Af-
fairs] will be submerged in 9000 pieces
of paper to read.” He did not yet know
how he would evaluate the forms.
McKelway estimates that if every stu-
dent wrote two hundred words, it would
take 35 hours to read the forms.

The ICES forms consist of three

standard or “global,” questions which
ask the student to rate the course, the
content, and the instructor on a six point
scale. The professor can choose 23
questions from a master list of 623 ques-
tions. The back of the form had space
for prose comments which only the pro-
fessor saw.

The new prose form has three ques-
tions: one asking for ‘‘a frank appraisal
of the effort invested in [the course],” a
second asking “what elements of the
course and instructor did you find most
helpful,” and a third seeking sugges-
tions to improve the course.

Students will be asked to sign the
forms, but that part of the form will be
removed before it is returned to the pro-
fessor.

Psychology Professor John Kelton
agrees with Zimmermann: “For pur-
poses of evaluation, questions such as
the global items are more appropriate
than the prose form.”

He believes “there are too many op-
portunites for misuse of the prose state-
ments” because “the Dean will have to
select a few” evaluations out of thou-
sands of essays.

SGA Receives Complaints
of ‘Discouragements’

By JEFF HOLLAND ’84

The SGA has reported that they
have received complaints from fresh-
men concerning the self-selection sys-
tem, including reports of oral discour-
agements and other forms of discour-
agements from fraternaties and eating
houses, according to a letter sent by the
SGA to the Patterson Court Council, the
Rush Chairmen of all the court houses,
and Dean of Students Will Terry. Fresh-
man class President Allan Mast and the
Patterson Court Council (PCC) reported
similar problems.

The letter stated that there had been
“flagrant abuses of the self-selective
system. . . in recent weeks.” The letter
went on to say, “We do not condone
these unnecessary actions which hurt
and demean our fellow students” and “‘it
is our hope that no further incidents of

oral discouragements will occur during
the remainder of this year’s eating house
selection process.”

SGA President Tim Johnston esti-
mates that between 20 and 30 people
have come to either him or Mast with
complaints, but some of the people were
speaking for friends so there may have
actually been less incidents than that.
Mike Mason of the PCC agrees. He said
that he knows of 15 suspected violators,
but he said he felt some of them were not
valid.

Mast said that some of the people
who came to him did not have any com-
plaints of specific discouragements, but
simply did not fully understand the sys-
tem.

Several committees are looking into
these problems and possible solutions.
Freshman Advisors Mike Mason and

(Continued on page 15)
