Volume me LXXIl, Number 10 10

~The 1e Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

By Anderson Scott °84

~~ Friday, 28 January 1 983

Plott Memorial Raises $250,000

The most exciting thing since beating Chapel Hill

By DAVID RESNIK °85

“The Donald Plott Memorial Con-
cert is the most exciting thing that has
happened to Davidson since the Wild-
cats beat Chapel Hill and won the State
Football Championship in 1926.”

—School Archivist Chalmers Davidson

Zubin Mehta, William Workman
62, Joseph Robinson ’62, and an or-
chestra of handpicked performers capti-
vated a sell-out crowd of 1,137 at the
Donald Plott Memorial Concert in Love
Auditorium last Monday night.

The concert capped-off a two-day
series of events surrounding the estab-
lishment of the Donald Bryce Plott
Scholarship Endowment.

The College requested donations of
$500, $250, or $100 from everyone
who attended the concert in order to
raise funds for the scholoarship. Col-

lege officials estimated the amount of _

money raised to be $250,000.

WDAV (89.9 FM) broadcasted the
concert live. WBTV (Channel 3) re-
corded it on video tape and will air the
performance in its entirety this Sunday
at 2:00.

Mehta also conducted a rehearsal at
11:30 a.m. on Monday which was open
to all students.

Including the ushers, only sixty to ~

eighty students attended the concert, ac-
cording to Union Program Coordinator
Ann Parker.
Concert Logistics

Vice President for Development Dr.
Jack Powers organized the multi-facet-
ed operation, which involved the office
of the President, the College Union, the

Alumni Office, the Development Of-
fice, the physical plant, campus securi-
ty, the Union technical crew, and doz-

ens of students, faculty , and administra-
tors.

Powers thinks the concert “went
real well” but regrets that it was “not
possible for more students to attend.”

The only problems in organizing the
event, according to Powers, were that
the College has never before devised
this kind of production, and that few
staff members could devote their. time
exclusively to it.

“It was like inventing the wheel,”
Powers recalled.

Mrs. Thomas M. Belk, Mr. George
L. Little Jr., Mrs. Hugh L. McColl Jr.,
and Mrs. Betty Chafin Rash co-chaired
the Plott Memorial Leadership Council,
which helped the school with fundrais-
ing and gave advice.

Powers says the Leadership Council
was very effective because they had “a
lot of previous experience in charitable
giving.”

He also expressed his gratitude for
the assistance students have provided.
Students helped the Department of
Development by working at private
cocktail parties, by picking up guests at
the airport, and by working in the coat
room. Powers says many students were
asked to work “at the last minute.”

The Union employed twenty stu-
dents as ushers and hosts. Fifty-nine
students worked for the Commons in
serving food and refreshments.

College Union Director C. Shaw
Smith estimates that the Donald Piott
Festival cost about $50,000 to put on,

r

although he cautions that “this is pure
guess work.”

Davidson did not pay the performers
to play but provided them with traveling
expenses and acccmodations.

Zubin Mehta stayed with Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Belk in Charlotte. Haas
and Robinson lodged at the guest house,
and Workman visited his parents. Other
musicians stayed with professors.

Other major expenses included food
and refreshments for Monday’s festivi-
ties, the printing of programs, advertis-
ing brochures, tickets for the concert,
and overtime compensation for College
Employees.

The College charged the concert ex-
penses to an account the Department of

Development established last fall to
cover donations.

There were no major problems with
the technical preparations for the con-
cert, according to Smith.

Day operations manager Chuck Still
and his technical crew employed light-
ing arrangements similar to the ones
used in dramatic productions.

The concert also required no ampli-

~ fication; Smith says that Love Auditori-

um is a “good speaking and singing
place.”

The concert organizers tried to sche-
dule the event in Charlotte, but couldn’t
get the proper date. They moved it back
to Davidson, but attempted to schedule

(Continued on page 5)

Plott Endowment to provide
music scholarships

By DAVID RESNIK ’85

The Donald Plott Memorial Endow-
ment will provide yearly scholarships of
$2500 to eight gifted music students.
The monies are intended for students
who are pursuing a liberal arts education
as well as a career in music.

The scholarship is open to non-mus-
ic majors.

Vice-President for Development
Dr. Jack Powers estimates that the Plott
Memorial Concert raised $250,000 for

. the scholarship fund. The college needs

to raise $400,000 for the scholarship,
according to Powers. The College will
continue asking for money until this
goal is reached, he said.

Interest from donations to the Plott
Memorial Concert will pay for the
scholarships.

Powers hopes that the Plott scholar-
ships will be available by next year, but
he admits that this depends on generat-
ing support from gift-giving founda-
tions as well as alumni and friends of the
college.

(Continued on page 5)
