12 Friday, May 6, 1983 / The Davidsonian

SPORTS

eae eR oe

Anderson Scott

pe came

eB jo

Men's Tennis
Takes Third

By TIM McGAUGHEY

The Davidson Men’s Tennis Team
took third place in the Southern Confer-
ence Tournament last weekend.

The Cats scored 55 points to trail
champion University of Tennessee-
Chattanooga with 61 points and runner-
up Furman with 59 points. The team also
reversed regular season losses to Citadel
and Appalachian State. The Citadel
finished with 46 points and ASU scored
42 points. Marshall finished with 17,
VMI with 14, and Western Carolina
scored 4 points. :

The Southern Conference coaches
named Davidson Tennis Coach Jeff
Frank Conference Coach of the Year.
The team’s exciting play in the tourna-
ment boosted Frank’s nomination for the
award. He previously won the award in
1975. He is also the only coach in the last
decade to win the award without winning
the Conference championship.

“The whole team played well in both
singles and doubles matches. During the
tournament they exceeded my expecta-
tion,” said Frank.

The team’s Most Valuable Player,
sophomore Sedge Gray, won the;number
two singles flight, while the~doubles

team of Victor Taylor and Shep Robin-

son took the number 3 doubles flight.
Hall and Taylor reached the finals of the
number 4 and number 6 singles, respec-
tively.

“The team peaked at the right time.
Everyone played as well in the tourna-
ment as they have all season,” said
Frank.

Prospects for next year are also ex-
tremely bright, according to Frank. The
number 2 and number 9 North Carolina
high school players have signed letters of
intent to come to Davidson. The team
will lose only one of its top six players
(Taylor) while UTC loses three of their
top six and Furman graduates four of
their top six.

Baseball Team Explodes

2 wins, 2 losses

By BOB BARNES

Wednesday was a day of firsts. The
Davidson baseball team exploded for 18
runs in the second game of a doub-
leheader with Gardner Webb to gain its
first twinbill sweep of the year. Senior
Ed Whitesides pitched a three-hitter for
the team’s first shut out of the year and
his first victory. Tim Waters hit his first
homerun of the season in the opening
game, only to hit his second in game two.

In the first game, Scott Weaver gave
up a pair of early runs then proceeded to
throw seven innings of shut out ball. He
raised his record to 3-4 with a 3-2 extra-
inning win. John Mahoney scored in the
ninth as a result of some fancy baserun-
ning by Philip Gordon (of all people).

In addition to his homer, Waters

added a single. Mahoney, Gordon, and
Bob Barnes each collected a pair of hits.

The Cats put together 13 runs in the
fourth inning to win the second game 18-
0. Gordon led the attack with three hits
— including a homerun and four RBIs.
Waters and Scott Redding added three
ribbies apiece, and Weaver had two hits.
Whitesides struck out four in picking up
the win.

Saturday, the Wildcats lost a pair of
conference games toa hard-hitting West-
em Carolina team (10-4 and 16-10).
Redding “had a day” in the opener with a
perfect 4-4 performance. Mick Smith
was close behind him with three hits in
four at bats. Doug Wiley (1-2) suffered
the loss while Kevin Attar pitched well in
relief.

In the

second game, Western

pounded Davidson pitcher Bob Barnes
for 13 runs in four innings, and added
three more off reliever Attar. The Cats
made the game interesting, however,
with ten runs on twelve hits. Mahoney
led the team with three hits, while Wat-
ers, Smith, and Jeff McSwain each had
two. McSwains’s hits included his first
homer — a solo blast in the fifth.

Davidson closes out their season to-
morrow afternoon (Saturday) with a
Southern Conference doubleheader
against Furman. The Cats will send
Barnes and Redding to the mound
against the Paladins. Barnes and fellow
seniors Philip Gordon, Ed Whitesides,
Al Baldwin, and Kevin Attar will don the
Davidson jerseys for the last time. Good
weather is expected and a nice, vocal
crowd would be appreciated.

Women’s Tennis Won’t Go To Tourney
Catherine Smith goes to nationals

BY STEVE SOUD

Tuesday, May 3 was the day bids to
the NCAA Division III women’s tennis
national championship were doled out,
and as Coach Caroline Brown confessed,
“It was a day of mixed emotions.” Al-
though the 17-5 (18-5 after yesterday’s
season-ending win over Furman) team
did not receive an invitation, Brown will
accompany number one singles player
Catherine Smith to the tournament in
Claremont, California.

On the one hand, Brown and her team
are upset that they didn’t get a bid, but
they are perhaps more peeved with the
selection system itself. The five-member
panel selected Mary Washington Col-
lege, William Patterson College, and
UNC-Greensboro as this region’s repre-
sentatives. ‘““There’s an understanding
that the system needs to be evaluated,”
Brown said. “As a coach and as players,
we were very frustrated. We're being
evaluated against schools we don’t play
and with which we do not have common
opponents. I’m hoping there will be
changes.” Brown is particularly frus-
trated that her team didn’t have a slot at
nearby UNC-G.. Next year, however,
UNC-G is on the schedule.

On the other hand, Brown and com-
pany happily await Smith’s trip to the
Golden State. Smith was selected to
compete as one of the top sixteen Divi-
sion III players in the nation. “An ‘adult’
has to accompany her, and Caroline
Brown has chosen Caroline Brown,” the
coach laughed. Claremont, outside of
Los Angeles, boasts many distractions.
“We are going to concentrate on tennis,”
Brown says, “and enjoy whatever dis-
tractions there are after the concentra-
tion. I’m taking my Elton John glasses

and we hope to meet Mickey Mouse.”

Should Smith win the tournament —
and the hard-surface courts are better
suited to her style of play — she goes on
to the Division I tournament the follow-
ing week in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
“I’m hoping that on the long legs of
Catherine Smith, she carries us not only
to Claremont but also to Albuquerque,”
says Brown.

Despite the euphoria and frustration
of the bid situation, the team had to come
together and play tennis yesterday, and
they did, handing Furman a S-4 loss.

It was the last home match for three
seniors: Smith, Joanna Fleming and

Leesa MacPhail. The team was excited
to close out the season against nemesis
Furman, and Brown intends to schedule
it as the finale in the future. Brown ex-
plains, “It’s a Southern Conference
match, the school’s are fairly similar,
they are traditionally strong matches,
and, fourth—” Brown admits “—I’m a
Furman grad. I'd like to whip the Pala-
dins.”

And so they did. It was 4-2 after sing-
les, as Caroline Barclay, Fleming, Sue
Hilton, and Eleanor Knobloch won
matches. Fleming and doubles partner
Tricia Ives clenched the match at number
two doubles.

Track Season Ends

By STEVE SOUD

The men’s and women’s track teams
crossed their last finish lines for the sea-
son Saturday. The men’s team competed
in the Southern Conference champion-
ships at VMI in Lexington, Va., and the
women competed at James Madison Uni-
veresity in Harrisonburg, Va.

As for the season, first-year coach
Gwen Harris was satisfied with the
young team. “I feel overall they were en-
thusiastic. They rose to the test of work-
ing with me and becoming better
athletes. For as right now all we need to
do is feel good about this season and not
worry about next year,” Harris said.

At VMI, junior Frank Ivey set two
school records. In the 1500 meter run he
eclipsed his old mark by nearly five sec-
onds as he finished in 3:59.32. In the 800
meter event he ran a 1:56.85 to set the
school record.

Meanwhile, sophomore Jeff Carter
placed third in the high jump with a mark
of 7’0”. The winning jump was 7’ 1 3/4”.
“He’s right in there with the best of
them,” Harris said. “He’s gonna get bet-
ter — he’s talented.” John Ponder, Jim
Shaw, and Todd Cowdery also set per-
sonal bests.

Further up the road in Harrisonburg,
the women ran well. Junior Sharon
Bryant ran a personal best 1:01.2 in the
400 meter event. Sophomore Jean Webb
placed second in her 800 meter heat with
a time of 2:26.4, and then came close to
the school record (5:00.82) in the 1500
meter run with a 5:05.0. Junior Laura
Hills, competing in her first heptathlon,
placed third overall.

“A lot of them achieved the goals
they set for themselves,” Harris said.
“I’m very please with the way the kids
the season and handled me.”
