Friday, December 7, 1983/The Davidsonian 9

1 Wildcat Men’s Basketball Team

Hernandez

upper-division team.”

Clockwise from top left: Tom
Franz, Coach Bobby Hussey,
Kenny Wilson, Pepper Bego, Gerry
Born, Caryl Dawson, Chris

Heineman, Ace Tanner, and Rafael

“Regardless of what happens in
game one we will work hard to be
better in game two. Our goal is to be
better in game fifteen than in game
10. I can’t predict any particular
finish or number of wins but I do
think we have a chance to be an

— Bobby Hussey

Feb. 4 APPALACHIAN Boone
6 WESTERN CAROLINA Cullowhee

11 MARSHALL Huntington, WV
13. VMI Lexington, VA
16 APPALACHIAN Davidson

18 EAST TENNESSEE Davidson

20 UT-CHATTANOOGA Davidson

25 MARSHALL Davidson

27. WESTERN CAROLINA Davidson
Mar. 2-4 SC Tournament Asheville, NC

SC Games in CAPS

7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30
7:30

and has the potential to be an outstanding Southern Con-
J

ference player. We look for Rafael to give Davidson
some quickness, jumping ability, and offense that have
been missing.” Hernandez has contributed especially in
rebounds — he had a team-high 8 against Duke.

Jim McConkey
C, 6-9, 218, Collinsville, IL

Jim McConkey was probably the best of Davidson’s
freshmen last year. In 24 games he averaged 2.4 ppg and
1.4 rpg, shot .524 from the field and .929 from the line,
and was named to the Southern Conference All-
Freshman team.

“If we are to be successful we will have to do two
things,” McConkey says. “One, we will have to play
well as a team — a unity will have to develop among the
five players on the floor, wherever they may be. Two,
we need to score more points than last year. . . we will
have to shoot better as a team.” According to Hussey,
McConkey “will have to fill a void at the center posi-
tion.” As a high school senior McConkey averaged 22.7
ppg and shot 59% from the field. These numbers helped

“earn him first team All-IIlinois honors and honorable
mention All-America honors.

Billy Naso
G, 6-1, 178, Charlotte

Billy Naso is in his second season as a walk-on
player, and is the only one for the 1983-84 Wildcats.
Two years ago Naso led Charlotte’s Myers Park High
School to a 19-6 record as he scored 19.1 ppg and led the
team in assists. He was an All-Mecklenburg County
selection and was named te McDonald’s honorable men-
tion All-America squad. Hussey lauds Naso because he
“always hustles, works hard in practice, and is really de-
dicated to becoming a good player. I think if this hustle
and dedication continues this year. Billy could be a sur-
prise.”

Ken Niebuhr
F, 6-7, 210, Wadsworth, OH
When Buck Williams played for Maryland, Lefty

Driesell referred to him as “my horse.” Although Ken

Niebuhr isn’ quite as talented as Mr. Williams, in many
repects he is this team’s horse. Niebuhr is one of the
team’s strongest players, and through a lot of hard work

earned the vote of most improved player last year. In-

three games this year Niebuhr has played very well.
As a high school senior Niebuhr led the Wadsworth

(Ohio) Grizzlies with 17.1 rebounds per game and 16.9
ppg. He shot 52 percent from the field. “We must build a
tradition of hard work, discipline, and good sportsman-
ship,” says Niebuhr, recipient of this year’s sophomore
Goodwin-Exxon Award. “With this type of attitude we
will surprise people in the Southern Conference.”

Ted Wolfe
F, 6-9, 215, Arlington Heights, IL

Of the “unknown quantities” of Davidson basketball
this season, Ted Wolfe is the most unknown of the retur-
nees. An early-season attack of mononucleosis debili-
tated him for most of the season. “This could be an excit-
ing year for Ted,” Coach Hussey declares. “With the
work he did in the spring and off-season we believe Ted
should make a strong contribution. He’s a very good re-
bounder who works extremely hard.” Wolfe is also a
good mid-range (8-14 ft.) shooter. Two years ago he led
Arlington (Illinois) High to a 25-6 record and was named
to the All-Mid-Surburban (Chicago) League for the sec-
ond consecutive year. “I believe Davidson is going to
surprise a lot of people this year,” contends Wolfe. “It’s
going to take a lot of effort though. We can do very well
in the conference if we improve all the way through the
season.”

Caryl Dawson
G, 6-0, 162, Jacksonville, FL

Caryl Dawson says, “As a point guard, team leader-
ship is asked of me. That means making us work as a unit
and making the team cohesive in what we do. As far as
personal goals are concerned, it would be nice to be the
most exciting player in the conference, but within the
framework of team goals.”

Already Dawson has taken steps in all those direc-
tions. Dawson, though a mere six feet tall, led his high
school team with 25 dunks last year. He averaged 17.5
ppg while shooting 54 percent from the field and aver-
aged six assists per game. He was named to All-Jackson-
ville and All-Florida teams. Coach Hussey describes
Cary] as “small but quick and plays much bigger than his
actual size. He is a true point guard with excellent quick-
ness and outstanding jumping ability.” Dawson is also a
more dynamic passer than Wildcat fans have seen in the
recent past.

Chris Heineman
G, 6-2, 150, Connersville, IN

Indiana is the most basketball-crazy state in the
Union. They have only one state high school basketball
champion — none of this 4A and 3A bunk for those
Hoosiers. Chris Heineman played for Indiana’s champi-
on last year. He led Connersville High in scoring (56
percent fg, 82 percent ft) en route to a 26-2 record.
Heineman is a player. For those of you who remember
UT-C’s Nick Morken, who shares Heineman’s alma
mater, you can have a general idea of the sort of heady
play one expects from Heineman. “Chris has the oppor-
tunity to play second and point guard for us,” explains
Hussey. “He is an excellent shooter and is very dedi-
cated to basketball. Chris has an opportunity to play a
vital role in the Davidson program this year.”

Anthony “Ace” Tanner
F/G, 6-7, 198, Cottondale, FL

It’s very simple: Ace Tanner may be the most
talented player Davidson has ever had. He may also be
the most underdeveloped. Tanner is the longest 6-7
you'll ever see — he’s got very long arms and legs (in the
mold of former Louisville standout Roger Barkman).
He’s got huge hands. And can he leap! He eventually
will be a stunning dunker (he’s already got one this
year). In high school he averaged 15.2 ppg and 14.7 rpg.
Add on seven blocks per game and six assists per game
— an all-around player. Hussey says simply, “Anthony
has a chance to be one of the all-time outstanding players
at Davidson.”
