14 Friday, April 1, 1983/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1917 |

Athletics or Education

The new athletic complex is the next item on the Trustee’s building
agenda. If the Trustees approve the Athletic Department’s recommenda-
tions, the new complex would include a 5,000-7 ,000 seat intercollegiate
basketball arena, a central administrative core, a natatorium, and a
multi-purpose center. It would solve the scheduling problems at
Johnston gym, provide a home for our swimming team, and give our bas-
ketball players all the court they want.

The new sports complex, if approved, will significantly improve our
athletic facilities. But it would also constitute a great commitment: mil-
lions of dollars in funds, several years of construction, and a lifetime of
maintenance.

This commitment will affect every aspect of the school, from the ants
in Belk dorm to the students in the library. Though the funding of the,
construction of the complex will never affect the College’s annual
budget, the maintenance of the complex would certainly cut into it.
Davidson faculty salaries are comparatively low, in part, because of non-
academic expenditures.

The College intends to solicit a separate endowment for maintenance
of the complex, but this is “an ideal situation” not a “practical one,” ac-
cording to Vice-president for Development Jack Powers. In short, the
athletic complex begs the age-old question, “Which do we want — athle-
tics or education?”

The Trustees have expressed a strong commitment to major College
basketball. They remember, misty-eyed, the days of Lefty Driesell and
Davidson’s moment of national glory. A 5,000-7,000 seat arena — large
enough for the student population with plenty of room for imports — is
the first step toward big-time basketball; but is it a step we want to take?
The Davidson of the 1980s is not the Davidson of the 1960s. Over the last
decade, especially during the last four years, Davidson has made great
strides toward national prominence in academics. We are now the most
highly selective college in the south according to some surveys. The av-
erage combined SATs of our students are climbing past 1200. We are
sending our graduates to the best universities in the world. In short, we
are a small step away from national prominence in education, but
perhaps a giant leap away from the same stature in basketball.

There is no question that Davidson needs better athletic facilities of
some sort. What is in contention is the extent of these new facilities. The
Trustees must guard against the temptation to build a sports Xanadu
when a sports complex will suffice.

No Popularity Contest

Honor Council elections take place this Tuesday. We urge everyone
to vote randomly in these elections.

‘We make this suggestion in response to a basic problem which
plagues this election process: how does one ascertain a peer’s qualifica-
tions for the position? Reading a poster about someone may reveal a new
name, but that’s about all. Only in rare circumstances does a certain
typeface reveal more integrity than another. If, on the other hand, one
shuns campaign literature and votes for an acquaintance with an unques-
tionably responsible nature, then the other candidates immediately lose a
fair chance at election. Voting without complete knowledge of the candi-
dates is irresponsible and ultimately unfair to both candidates and voters.
But because it is impossible to judge someone’s qualifications for this of-
fice, complete knowledge of the candidates is impossible. Furthermore,
picking a candidate on qualifications is impossible because no one run-
ning can ever possess real experience in these positions; no adequate
training exists for the Honor Council save the time a student spends on it.

At this point we make our plea for random elections. Consider the
candidates for the posts. All have signed the Honor Pledge before arriv-
ing at Davidson; all theoretically possess redoubtable integrity. How
many truly unqualified candidates can there be? Because respect for the
Code is essential for a strong Honor Council, and because all students
have sworn.to live by-it, the interest candidates show by entering the
competition is qualification enough.

06.

CAND JERE 's WHERE WELL PUT THE

NEW BASKETBALL COURT. ..

LETTERS

Dog Burning

To the Editor:

This letter stands in protest against
the unnecessary and tragic incident re-
ported in last week’s Davidsonian. I
realize that the dog found on the lawn of
the Sig Ep house was dead before it was
bumed, for which I am thankful. I do not
take exception to the fact that an animal’s
dead body was burned; what sickened me
was that whoever did it felt compelled to
publicly display his unhealthy sense of
humor. It’s sad to think that this kind of
behavior amuses some people. I see in it

Election

To The Editor:

On Tuesday, March 22 at 5:00 p.m.
Mark Oldenburg, SGA Chancellor, met
with the candidates for the offices of Sen-
ate, Student Solicitor, CCRL, and Honor
Council to inform them of the rules and
regulations concerning each race. In par-
ticular, the candidates for Honor Council
were restricted to door-to-door cam-
paigning only — no flyers, posters, or
“parades.” This was clearly stated.

Honor Council members are elected
on the basis of their honor and integrity
— two qualities which should be inhe-
rently associated with the person, rather
than the quality of his handbills.

One candidate has clearly violated
the only restriction. Upon learning of this
violation, the SGA acted immediately; it
bent the rules. The SGA sent a notice to
all Honor Council candidates informing
them of the “confusion” surrounding the
actual format ofthe campaigning. It is
disappointing that such “confusion”
could exist. It is even more disappointing

only a manifestation of a disturbed men-
tal state.

I do not expect anything to be done
about this; nothing can alter the facts.
However, I feel that it is important to let
others know that I was neither amused
nor unaffected by the incident. I can only
hope that public protest will help dis-
courage any other person from behaving
in such a destructive and disgusting man-
ner.

Clare M. Eckert

Rules

that the SGA would, rather than disqual-
ify the candidate, bend the rules to
legitimize the candidate’s actions.

Now tonight, Monday, March 28 a
memo has been sent to the Honor Coun-
cil candidates telling them that the elec-
tion has been postponed to give them
“time to adequately campaign if (they)
wish to do so.” It also stipulates that
‘campaigners’ “should not deface the of-
fice for which (they) are a candidate.”
Sadly the office of Honor Council Repre-
sentative was defaced when the first flyer
was handed out. The question which now
needs to be raised is: To what extent has
the SGA been defaced by its handling of
this campaign?

Spence G. Millen
Ed. note—The candidate in question
acted under the authority of an official
connected with the Honor System but not
with the SGA. His intentions were hon-
est; he believed he was justified in his ac-
tions. .
