What do you see to be the three
most important issues at Davidson
College, and how do you see the paper
dealing with these issues?

Resnik: The most important issue is
the continued ‘transition to co-educa-
tion, and I think the paper can partici-
pate in this by keeping people informed
of all the activities that are going on,
when they happen, such as Women’s
Week. Also it can provide editorials on
the issues which stress their more im-
portant aspects.

Another thing that is very important
is the continued growth of the College
and the administration’s guidance as to
making sure that the students do have a
say in what is being changed and what
will be changed in the College inthe fu-
ture. Again we can have both articles
and editorials to try to put forth our
whole policy.

Meador: As to the third issue, one
thing I’ve always noticed is the role of
women in general at the College — not
just in terms of co-education, but in the
whole way the College views women. I
think this is something we can reflect in
our editorials — I think editorials in
general are very strong ways in which
the paper can have a voice. That’s one
of the most important things the paper
can do.

Kirkpatrick: The three issues I think
are most significant to Davidson right
now revolve around Patterson Court,
the Academic system, and the Admis-
sion policy. I think an issue which is go-
ing to become increasingly more impor-
tant is the dual issue of self-selection
and the economic impact of the Com-
mons on Patterson Court. The David-
sonian needs to follow these issues and
to let the student body know in what di-
rection Patterson Court is heading. I
think that self-selection is basically a
hypocritical system; I think everybody
knows that we have a quasi-bid system
for fraternities. We are only fooling our-
selves, and I think that The Davidsonian
needs to look at this.

In the academic sphere we’ ve had a
major controversy over changing from
the quarter system to the semester sys-
tem. I think that we need to keep on the
faculty about — we need to make sure
they know how we feel, as they are de-
ciding exactly how it is to be run. This is
most important: we must get the stu-
dent’s point across.

On the admissions policy, the trus-
tees are seriously looking at open-ended
admissions, and I think The Davidson-
ian should get behind them.

How do you feel that the paper
should cover the upcoming presiden-
tial selection?

Resnik: The last time a president
was selected, there really wasn’t much
coverage in the paper. I think, however,
that we have a pretty good start on the
issue, and I think we should continue to
follow the Trustee committee in its
search. We should also continue talking
to the faculty and student committees
making sure that the opinions which
have been voiced on campus are being
fairly represented. We may openly en-
courage the Trustees to take the student
opinions into account in our editorials.
We may also state some of the issues
which we think the new president must
take into account.

Kirkpatrick: This is definitely the
most important issue that a new editor
would face. I think it would be a mistake
to get The Davidsonian personally in-
volved in the selection. As I understand
it, they are going to look at many, many
candidates, and they go through the list
on an individual basis. I don’t think The
Davidsonian has a role in pumping one
candidate — no college paper should
have that kind of voice. But I think that
The Davidsonian does need to decide
with student input, what kind of a presi-
dent we want, what kind of Davidson
we want to have. We need to decide
where we want Davidson to go; The Da-
vidsonian certainly should have a voice
in this if The Davidsonian truly repre-
sents the voice of the students.

Kirk Kirkpatrick

By Anderson Scott ‘84

Lastly, what do you see as being
the role of the editor within the frame-
work of The Davidsonian?

Meador: David and I have decided
that should we win the election, I would
take the role of editor, and David would
be executive editor. In any organiza-
tion, there needs to be a final voice. The
two of us will be splitting a lot of the re-
sponsibilites — there is so much work
that it needs to be split. I think the editor
in general has a great influence in terms
of organization. The editor needs have a
strong view of everything that goes on
with the newspaper — all areas.

The ideal editor would be one who
could make sure that the paper does ev-
erything it wants to do in terms of in-
forming the students, entertaining them
and putting forth a strong editorial poli-
cy.

Resnik: An editor should be like a
captain in that everyone follows the ex-
ample of the editor. If the editor is se-
rious and committed, then all the other
people will be. I think that the editor

should organize people not only literal-
ly, but also spiritually and emotionally
and be in charge of actually getting peo-
ple to work.

Kirkpatrick: As I’ve already said,
the editor of The Davidsonian is primar-
ily a manager. He should know how to
do everything, but he should not have to
do everything. He should primarily deal
with people; he should organize his
staff. I recognize that the job is going to
take a lot of hours, but I think that these
hours are better spent as an organizer
than as a writer or reporter or typist. An
editor has to be careful not to get in-
volved in these things. He has to be a
manager. By the force of his personali-
ty, as I have said, he has to be able to go
out and get people. Then he will have a
good paper.

Hobart Park

Dickey, Myers versus Lett, Cooper

By ANNE LAMBERT ’86

Two teams are running for co-edi-
tors of Hobart Park, the College’s liter-
ary art magazine: Suzanne Dickey with
Scot Myers, and Dwayne Lett with Dar-
ryl Cooper.

Juniors Dickey and Myers feel they
would bring extensive experience to the
magazine as co-editors. ‘I have defi-
nitely paid my dues for this job,” said
Dickey, who worked on her high school
literary magazine, and has worked for
two years on the staff of Hobart Park,
serving this year as assistant editor.
‘‘We want to try and continue the tradi-
tion that Dave [Banks, last year’s edi-
tor] started, with a high quality maga-

zine . . . and I think we’re reaching that
goal. It’s [Hobart Park] got a much
more professional look to it now, just
through our experience,” said Dickey.
Scot Myers also has experience in liter-
ary publication, having written, edited,
and published his own science-fiction
magazine and serving as the graphic de-
signer for The Davidsonian. “Suzanne
and I are running because we’ve both
worked on writing in the past, we work

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

well together, and, between the two of
us, we're involved in almost every as-
pect of campus life.” savs Myers.

Dwayne Lett and Daryl Cooper, al-
so running as co-editors, hope to take an
innovative approach to Hobart Park if
elected. “We want to broaden the scope
of Davidson’s literary magazine so it
encompasses all aspects of artistic ex-
pression — ‘literary, photographic, per-
formed, sculptural, philosophic, or art-
istic.’” said Lett. Cooper, a freshman
with sophomore academic _ status,

worked for the last three years for a na-
tional student publication, Sunstone.
For the last two years Sunstone has been
ranked as one of the top five student
publications in the nation. Lett, a junior
English major, has experience in “pub-
lications and editing, as well as literary
criticism.” Said Lett, “I want to be taken
seriously with this because it’s some-
thing I really want to do, and I feel we
can really do a good job if we’re just
given an opportunity. I know we’re
qualified to do this.”

For the first time, the student body
will elect Hobart Park’s editor. In past
years, the retiring editor trained the in-
coming editor.
