Lady Cats Drop to 1-5

Turnovers, Personnel Losses Plague Team

By KARA GILMORE’ 85

Despite the fact that the women’s
basketball has started their season a dis-
appointing 1-5, there are a few encou-
raging points.

Monday night, Mike Frankhauser
scored her thousandth point. Also of en-
couragement, three of the five losses
have been by a total of only 20 points. A
few breaks here and there and they
could be 4-2.

If the old coach’s adage is true —
“You make your own breaks” — then
the Lady Cats haVen’t been doing
enough of it. On the contrary, they’ve
been plagued by turnovers, especially at
critical points in the game.

Turnovers, however, are not the
only problems plagueing the Lady Cats.
Since Christmas they have been ham-
pered with a loss of key personnel. In
that time they have lost three of their top
four scorers, includeding two starters,
due to personal reasons.

Coach Dee Mayes admits ‘that los-
ing three players of such caliber “is a lot
to lose, especially when you look at how
much they were contributing. All three
were in the top of various statistical
categories.

~ All told, the three players were con-
tributing an average of 21 rpg and 32
ppg. Mayes added, “I was concerned
about filling the spots and how the kids
remaining on the team would react but
I’m really pleased with how they have
responded. They have shown me they

From the Locker

Various and sundry thoughts and
news items:

Records

Tuesday night wasn’t all bad for the
Wildcats. John Carroll broke David-
son’s career assist record. Carroll en-
teréd the game needing only two to tie
Mike Sorrentino’s old record of 355 as-
sists, and he shattered it with eight as-
sists. .

By tomorrow night Davidson fans
may see two of their stars break the
1,000 point mark. Mike Frankhouser
broke the plateau Monday night against
Guilford, and Cliff Tribus, needing
only 13 points. to do it himself, will
probably get it tomorrow night in Chat-
tanooga or Monday night in Johnston
Gym against ETSU. Kenny Wilson, af-
ter 19 points against Appalachian, has
782 career points, and at his present clip
should break 1,000 by season’s end.

A Signing

The word is out about a November
signing for the basketball program.
They signed Anthony “Ace” Tanner of
Cottondale, Florida, a 6-7 swing player.

are gung-ho, committed, dedicated and
gutsy — they have really pulled togeth-

er, and I’m happy with the 11 players I,

have left. In the two games since Christ-
mas they have really put out outstanding
efforts.”

The first game after Christmas was
this past Saturday in Rocky Mt., N.C.,
against N.C. Wesleyan. The Lady Cats
lost, 60-37, but, as Coach Mayes said,
“We played O.K., but turnovers really
hurt us. We handled their full-court
pressure well but then rushed to score
instead of setting up the offense and tak-
ing good shots — our shot selection was
really poor. The key, though, was they
they shot 23 times more than we did be-
cause we gave them the ball.”

I’m optimistic,” she continued, “be-
cause of a few things I saw. We were
only out rebounded by 2 even though
they were much bigger than us. We cut
down on our fouls, so we didn’t send
them to the line as often, and everyone
who played — even those who had seen
very limited action before Christmas —
played with a great deal of confidence.”

Mike Frankhouser led the team with
12 points and 9 rebounds, Jeanne Wom-
ack had 8 points and 8 rebounds, and
Carol Heppner pulled in 9 rebounds as
well. |

Monday night the women took on
the Guilford Quakers at home. They lost
by a score of 66-58.

“It was our best effort of the sea-
son,” Mayes said. “I was pleased with

Tanner, a quiet, unassuming young
man, has stats that speak for them-
selves. He’s averaging 15.2 ppg, 14.7
rpg, 7 blocked shots per game, and 6 as-
sists per game. Tanner has phenomenal
leaping ability (he can 360-dunk), and is
considered among the top five seniors in
Florida’s 4A class this year. He’ll play
the two guard spot in all likelihood.

Seating Arrangements

It’s time to quell all those vicious
rumors about our madcap fans behind
Digger. Although it is true that Dr.
Spencer forbade the ticket office to sell
those seats to students, that’s been
changed now. SGA President Tim
Johnston persuaded Dr. Spencer to res-
cind his decision. (In my three years.
here, that’s the first thing I can re-
member that SGA’s done that’s really’
useful. Phonathon excluded.) Anyway,
the Ticket Office may now sell tickets
for the stands’ behind the opposing
bench in groups of six or less, but no
blocks.

The other half of the Digger rumor
is that anyone going above and beyond

the determination the team showed —
the kids really wanted to prove them-
selves and they did a great job. When
we played Guilford earlier in the season
they blew us out by 33 points — this
time we only lost by 8.”

Statistically the Lady Cats were out-
rebounded by only 3 against a much tall-
er team. Davidson had fewer fouls than
Guilford, and the turnovers were about
even.

“We improved a lot on our turnov-
ers,” Mayes said. “The players saw that
they didn’t have to rush — they could
run the offense and swing the ball quick-
ly to get good shots. What hurt us was
Guilford’s depth — they played 15 peo-
ple — I only used six, so they were
fresher than we were at the end. I was
really pleased with the balance of our at-
tack, and was especially happy to see
freshman guard Amy Hartman taking
her shot and handling the ball with more
confidence. Marie Cefalo is definitely a
spark-plug, and she isn’t intimidated by
anyone — she really got things going.”

Frankhauser led the way with 22
points and 10 rebounds, Hartman
chipped in 12 points, and 6 rebounds,
and Jeanne Womack added 10 points
and 8 boards.

The Lady Cats are in action away
Thursday against Coker and Saturday
vs. Wofford. They return home Mon-
day to play archrival Meredith at 4:30
— followed at 7 by the men’s game.
Come on out for the exciting double-
header.

Room.

the call of general rowdiness will have a
Code of Responsibility fine to contend
with. According to Dean of Students
Will Terry, that’s not quite true. “I’m
not trying to stifle school spirit, and I’m
certainly not trying to stifle school spir-
it, and I’m certainly not trying to stifle
any ensuing victory,” Terry said. “It’s
not the quantitv of noise I’m worried
about, its the quality. | want quantity.
Raise the roof off!” ;
ACC Home Jobs
Everybody knows about the blatant
home job the ACC officials gave David-
son at Duke. Last night the same sort of
thing happened in Carmichael
(where?). Sam Perkins reamed Chuck
Driesill from behind as Driesill was
moving for the game-winning basket
with :05 left, but as you might expect,
the call went Carolina’s way. I wonder
if Lefty will be getting a call of apology?
Credit to Cantwell
Give Apopalachian State Coach
Kevin Cantwell credit for much of that
win Tuesday night. They made no
bones about their main objective: stop-
ping Kenny Wilson. Their triangle and
two defense effectively took Kenny out

Frankhouser ©

Gets 1,000th
Point

By KARA GILMORE ’85

Senior center and _ co-captain
“Mike” Frankhouser joined Sarah
Womack (’80) as Davidson’s second
woman basketball player to score |,
points. Frankhouser reached the plateau
Monday night against Guilford in John-
ston Gym.

She missed her first shot, a jumper
from the middle, then was fouled on her
second attempt she then converted
both free throws, bringing her total to
999. She missed her next shot, but then
with 15:25 remaining in the first half,
she hit all net with a shot from the top of
the key and had 1001 points. The game
was stopped at this point as Mike was
recognized and at half-time, Coach Dee
Mayes presented her with a commemor-
ative game ball.

Mayes praised the senior center,
“she is really dedicated to the sport. In 3
years as her coach I’ve seen her go
through a lot of changes. She really
takes basketball seriously and _ has
developed into an excellent team leader.
I’m really happy whe scored 1000
points — she really deserved it.”

oft his game on the inside. He got his 19
points largely from the perimeter, and
they really kept him off the boards (3 re-
bounds).

Brian Rowan scored in double digits
for his second consecutive game, and
for the second time in a row has been
game-high rebounder with 7.

Upcoming Hoops

Tomorrow night’s game against
UT-C has taken on added importance
since the loss to Appalachian. An upset
win would put Davidson about where
they should be come Monday — 4-1.
Unfortunately, Monday night’s game
against EAst Tennessee is of extreme
importance as well. The Bucs have bol-
stered their front line with 6710”
Winfred King, and he’s helped them
immensely. They lost to UT-C by only 3
points last Saturday in Johnson City.
Leaping Andre Mortey is having a stel-
lar year, as is superguard Troy Lee Mi-
kell. The Cats will need all the vocal
help they can get Monday night in John-
ston Gym, so let’s welcome them back
to campus with a full house. They’l]
need it.

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983

22

4
