The Davidsonian

Friday, March 25, 1983 9

World Opinion Gives Al Strength

By ELEZABETH KISS

“Human rights transcend the boundaries of nation,
race, and belief; so does the international responsibility
for protecting those rights. The pressure of world public
opinion, expressed in concerted actions of ordinary
people from all around the world, must be brought to
bear if this principal is to be universally respected.”

~Amnesty International Report 1982

Amnesty International’s goal is both modest and ex-
travagnatly ambitious. On the one hand, A.I. wants to
free Hanna Mykhaylenko. Since Hanna is only one of

thousands of innocent people imprisoned around the .

world, this seems a modest enough goal.

On the other hand, A.I. wants to make the planet a
place fit for human habitation, a rather more abitious
goal. Impossible? Perhaps. Each prisoner’s release is
only one infinitesimal step. But for that one prisoner, the
step has infinite dimensions.

This is Human Rights Awareness Month at David-
son. One of Davidson A.I.’s goals in sponsoring the
month was to heighten campus awareness concerning
the global dimensions of the human rights problem. No
continent, ideology, or race holds a monopoly on human
rights violations. Most ordinary people live in some fear
of official brutality.

The map above shows the areas of the world ad-
dressed by Human Rights Awareness Month activites.

1-5: International Women’s Day

Hanna Mykhaylenko and four others are among
thousands of women prisoners of conscience (people
who have neither used nor advocated violence) around
the world. ATUSA selected the five women to be sub-
jects of letter-writing campaigns commemorating Inter-
national Women’s Day.

Hanna is a 45-year-old Ukrainian librarian arrested
in 1980 for “anti-Soviet agitation.” She had lobbied to
obtain Ukrainian reading materials for schoolchildren.
In 1981, Hanna was committed to a psychiatric institute
for an indefinite period.

The other four women are from Chile, Ethiopia,
South Africa, and Taiwan.

On March 8 the Women’s Concerns Committee
members joined A.I. in writing seventy letters on behalf
of the five women.

6: Focus: Human Rights in Central America

Regional turbulence has aggravated a long tradition
of human rights violations in Central America. A.I.

holds Salvadoran and Guatemalan authorities responsi-
ble for extensive violations of the human rights of un-
armed civilians in all sectors of society.

Because of its apolitical stance, A.I. takes no posi-
tion on U.S. Central American policy. It did, however,
challenge as inaccurate the State Department’ s recent as-
sessment of the Salvadorian government’s human rights
record. Furthermore, A.I. has repeatedly requested as-
surances that U.S. military aid is not being used to per-
petuate violence aginst noncombatant civilians.

7: Philippines Campaign

A U.S. colony for half a century, the Philippines is
still considered a model of third world democracy by
many. According to A.I., Ferdinand Marcos’ govern-
ment continues to wage a campaign of terror against
nonviolent church workers and trade unionists. Persecu-
tion of church workers reached such intensity last sum-
mer that Archbishop Jaime Sin publicly called on Presi-
dent Marcos to resign.

Davidson A.]. last week sponsored presentations on
the Philippines by UNCC Geography Professor Norman
Schul and Filipino National Dale Fallar and organized a
petition campaign.

8: Czechoslovakian Playwright
Vaclav Havel is a Czech playwright arrested in 1979 for
human rights monitoring activites. Havel’s health was
so poor that he was transferred to a civilian hospital last
month. But he will have to return to prison to serve the
remainder of his four-year sentence as soon as his health
permits.

Havel is one of a large number of Czech intellectuals
and artists who have been persecuted by authorities for
their bold, outspoken criticism of oppressive policies.

A.I. members wrote letters on Havel’s behalf last
week.

9: Repression Grows in Zimbabwe

Two members of ZAPU, the minority party within
Prime Minister Robert Mugabe’s coalition government,
wer arrested March 4.

Sidney Malunga and Canaan Zinoti Moyo are being
held without charge, and A.I. fears they will be sub-
jected to tortue. There have recently been an increasing
number of human rights violations against ZAPU sym-
pathizers by Mugabe’s government.

A.I. members wrote letters urging that the two pris-
oners be granted immediate access to legal counsel or re-
leased.

10: The Death Penalty — Justice or Injustice?

A.I. unconditionally opposes the death penalty. The
United States, with over 1,000 inmates on death row, is
one of the few Westem nations which legalizes execu-
tions. North Carolina has 29 death row prisoners.

A well-attended public debate on the death penalty
on March 20 featured State Superior Court Judge Frank
Snepp and jail chaplain Tony Clark-Sayer, Chairman of
North Carolinians Against the Death Penalty.

The heated question-and-answer session following
the debate demonstrated that people on both sides are
seriously concerned about this human rights issue so
close to home for Americans.

11: Korea—A Missionary’s Perspective

Dr. John Somerville, Presbyterian missionary and
professor in Korea, did not plan on getting involved in
human rights work in Korea. But what he saw there com-
pelled him to make an active commitment.

Reverend Somerville will speak at the Open Lunc-
heon‘and lead an informal discussion on March 30.

12: Human Rights in the ’80s

John Healey, Executive Director of Amnesty Inter-
national U.S.A., will present the month’s keynote
speech on Thursday, April 7. His topic will be “Human
Rights in the ’80s.”

Formerly Director of the Peace Corps in Lesotho and
Deputy Director of Freedom from Hunger, Healey now
heads 13,000 A.I. volunteers nationwide.

13: Apartheid Hits Home

South Africa is unique for its open police of racism.
Julius Chambers, a prominent Black attorney from
Charlotte, became personally acquainted with the injus-
tice of apartheid.

Chambers was detained by authorities during an offi-
cial visit to South Africa with a delegation of Black
lawyers and judges.

Chambers will speak on South Africa April 11.

14: Psychiatric Torture in the U.S.S.R.

Hanna Mykhaylenko is only one of a large number of
Soviet dissidents detained in psychiatric institutes.
Routine treatment at such institutes includes administra-
tion of powerful mind-altering drugs. In addition, in-
mates have even less legal recourse than they would in
an ordinary prison.

Davidson A.I. will sponsor an information/action
campaign on Soviet use of psychiatric torture in last
April.

