The Davidsonian/Friday, October 21, 1983 5

Publish Or Perish

(Continued from page |)

faculty research time figures into the
College’s commitment to teaching.

“Teaching comes first, and I think
that’s right,” said Nelson.‘‘A person ac-
tively involved in research is going to be
a better teacher,” Biology department
chairman John Williamson said.

“The best teachers have a serious en-
gagement with their fields. They want to
be on the frontier of their field, and that
lends excitement to their teaching,” Zim-
mermann said.

Some faculty members question the
College’s policy that professors must
teach six courses and perform adminis-
tyrative duties while trying to find time
for research. “Six courses a year is
heavy” when trying to write a book, his-
tory professor Peter Krentz said. He said
he finds little time for research during the
year.

Shi said he faces a similar problem
and said the College should consider in
the future the possibility of lighter teach-
ing loads or reduced administrative work
for professors involved with concrete
projects. “The College should be mature
in recognizing this issue,” Shi said.

Religion professor Alexander
McKelway echoed this sentiment.

Hard

through May 31, 1984
© 1983 Hardees Food Systems Inc

fa

May 31, 1984.

© 1983. Hardees Food Systems Inc

r

MAKE TRACKS FOR THE
BEST EATIN’ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop bv for the Best Eatin’. bring
along this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One co::1«.n per customer, per |

Dr. David Shi
“Preoccupation with committee work

”

and classes does bite in » research time,
he scid. He suggeste! that Davidson
tends to emphasize duties which are not
central to teaching but are nonetheless
time consuming.

“The emphasis upon availability to
students is not essential, and it tends to
make it harder to be perceived as a good
teacher,” he said.

Tenure and Publishing

The College has no uniform policy
concerning the importance of publishing
in tenure decisions except for the require-

v

visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants | : . i 9

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
_ FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per i
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales ‘tax due. This coupon not good in tl
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at

participating Hardee’s Restaurants through |

Hardees

ment that faculty be involved in research,
Zimmermann said.

The Code of Faculty Evaluation Pro-
cedures has no quota on the amount of
publishing required for the College to
grant tenure. “In the matter of publica-
tion, quality will be deemed more signif-
icant than quantity,” it reads.

However, when tenure decisions are
made during a professor’s sixth year, the
Code says that “the candidate will submit
an updated curriculum vite, including a
bibliography, copies of published books
and articles, and all such materials as
may be deemed helpful to a favorable
consideration.”

“The Adminstration’s stance is
exactly the right one,” Nelson said, and
he emphasized that it would be a mistake
for the College to set quotas on quantity
as some larger universities do.

Shi agreed that Davidson tries to rec-
ognize the quality of research and not

quantity. “There’s no ambiguity about
that,” he said.
However, Shi said, the College’s

position on the importance of publishing
is asubtle one. “The Administration’s at-
titude is more frustrating for some. They
[professors] sense pressure but aren’t
sure what the pressure means,” he said.
McKelway called tenure ‘ta spur to
produce more than one wants to produce

or is even beneficial to produce.” He said
that the pressures may cause junior facul-
ty to publish prematurely, not contribut-
ing much to their career.

The New Guard

Because younger faculty members
face the challenge of earning tenure in a
crowded profession, some professors
perceive a split between senior and junior
faculty in attitudes toward publishing’s
importance.

“There could be a tension between
younger and older faculty,” Shi said,
claiming that younger faculty are subject
to different standards of evaluation than
the older faculty were. If professors are
not granted tenure, they must have some-
thing to prove to another college that they
are worthy of tenure; being a good
teacher while not pursuing research is no
longer enough to guarantee a job at a col-
lege.

Williamson emphasized the differ-
ence between evaluating professors now
and in the past, and also observed that
Davidson is not unique in this difference.
“If you put the older half of the profes-
sors through the current process of
evaluating professors, most wouldn’t
have passed the process,” he said. Many
would not have been hired in the first
place, he said, and some of the hired pro-
fessors would not have made tenure.

Soccer Game

(Continued from page 1)

with members of the Faculty, though he
had not heard about the student petition.
Johnston said, ‘I thought since it was
a big College day [Parents’ Weekend],
they should be able to use the field.”
Slagle said there were also logistical
problems in using Richardson Stadium.
The field has no soccer goals, and

Slagle’s players are unfamiliar with the
field.

Slagle has received no complaints
about seating for soccer games. Three
sets of bleachers are broken, but Slagle
hopes to get new bleachers in time for the
Nov. 5 game.

Faculty Evaluations

(Continued from page |)

nian article Zimmermann and President
Spencer rejected it on the grounds that it
was “not of sufficient value as an instru-
ment of faculty evaluation to warrant the
time and extra assistance which would be
necessary to process and read approxi-
mately 3,000 individual forms per term.”

Faculty members were urged to use
some type of student evaluation on their
own while the search continued for what
Zimmermann called ‘ta system which
will speak to student opinion as to quality
of teaching in a form which is usable.”

Religion professor Alexander
McKelway said that the faculty is look-
ing for “a quickly perused device that
still expresses student opinion well.
There are any number of possibilities.”

The Professional Affairs Committee
is a committee consisting of five faculty
members selected by the faculty which is
“responsible for overseeing issues which
bear upon the professional work of the
faculty.” It is also responsible tor “pro-
tecting the faculty’s interest in the issue
of faculty evaluation.”

The PAC will meet with Zimmer-
mann next Thursday to continue discus-
sion about the possible methods of stu-
dent input. McKelway said “There is an
unfortunate interpretation of this whole
thing that is quite untrue and quite unfair.
That is, that the faculty voted down the
ICES forms in order to avoid student
criticism.” He said that actually the prose
form that the faculty adopted would sub-
ject them to more open and harsh criti-
cism.

In an investigation this summer, the
PAC surveyed the methods that 21 col-
leges, such as Williams, and William
and Mary use to acquire student input for
the evaluation of their faculties, to see
which ones would best suit us. They
found that the ICES forms were out of
line with the methods of most of the
schools. Most of them use prose devices,
with stress on alumni opinion and letters
solicited from randomly selected ‘stu-
dents. McKelway stressed the fact that
“they [the PAC] were not just sitting
around, satisfied with the situation.”
