Features

Rhodes Scholars Revisited

Distinguished Alumni excel in varied ways

By GEOFF DEMPSEY ’83

In March, 1902, Cecil John Rhodes died and left by
the terms of his will a trust fund of over $3 million to
provide scholarships at Oxford for colonial, American,
and German students. Having left his native England
and sailed for South Africa at the age of 17, the young
Rhodes amassed an immense fortune in South Africa
through control of the diamond mines and other miner-
als there. Over the course of his life, he drew up seven
wills before settling on the final one which set up the

The will laid down guidelitiés (sucn as touness v-
and success in many outdoor sports” and “the qualities
of manhood”’) to insure that the students selected would
not be “merely bookworms.” In addition, it read, “no
student shall be qualified or disqualified for election to
a Scholarship on account of his race or religious opin-
ions.” This statement has ironically led to many non-
white students over the years receiving the benefits of
the Rhodes Trust — a consequence almost certainly
not anticipated by Cecil Rhodes.

In 1977 the growing support for admitting female
candidates to the Scholarship, led by the appeal of the
Rhodes Trustees, the British public, and former
Rhodes Scholars in this country, resulted finally in an
act by the British Parliament that allowed women to be
considered for the prestigious scholarships.

This past week The Davidsonian talked with three
of Davidson’s past Rhodes Scholars, each of a differ-
ent generation, to get their reactions to the news of Da-
vidson’s first female recipient of the Rhodes and to see
how they remembered their own experiences at Ox-
ford.

Dr. Carleton B. Chapman, M.D. ’36, who curtent-
ly teaches ethics and law at the Albert Einstein College
of Medicine in New York City, worked with the
Rhodes Trust in the early 1960s. “I recommended two
changes,” he said, “1) to admit women, and 2) to per-
mit Rhodes scholars to go for certain purposes to uni-
versities in Britain other than Oxford. The Trustees at
that time, however, were not interested in either propo-
sition.” The requirement to study at Oxford still holds
today.

Jason D. McManus ’56, currently the executive ed-
itor of Time magazine, studied from 1958 to 1961 asa
Rhodes. He notes that “it [the question of women being
considered for the scholarships] was not a great issue at
the time. The country’s consciousness had not yet beg-
un to be raised about such issues. Also the will [of Cec-
il Rhodes] was viewed as difficult, if not impossible to
be altered.” Even as late as 1974, when A.S. (Pete)
Kyle arrived at Oxford, “most people,” Kyle says,
“were in favor of letting women compete, the only
problem being the overturning of the will.”

Scholars found unexpected flexibility

Each of the former Rhodes Scholars felt very posi-
tive about his experiences at Oxford, and they pointed
to the flexibility of the program. “The best thing about
it,” says Dr. Kyle, now teaching at Princeton Universi-
ty, “was the educational system. I went over thinking
that I would study math, but changed to economics in
less than a year. Coming in with a good math back-

ground, I was better prepared to learn economics than
someone starting from scratch, and the system there al-
lowed me to go at my own pace. I don’t think I could
have done that anywhere else.” Kyle went on to get a
PhD in economics at University of Chicago in 1979.
Dr. Chapman relates a very similar experience: “I
became discouraged with the bio-medical sciences and
wanted to switch to jurisprudence. I talked it over with
my tutor; he urged me not to do that, but said for me to
go and listen to Professor William Holsworth, the
ranking historian of English common law. I went and
came to know Professor Holsworth personally; that

From top left: Charles T. Davis ’50; Hugh
Cannon ’53; Pete Kyle ’74; Ben Lacy ’06; J.
McDowell Richards ’22; Fred Myers ’54;
William Clark, M.D. ’66; Patrick “Bo” Bas-
kin ’77; Jason McManus ’56; Dean Rusk ’31;
Henry Shue ’61 ; Daniel clodfelter’ 72; Randel
Phillips ’69; Joseph Murray ’51 ; Carleton B.
Chapman, M.D. ’ 36; Robert F. Davidson ’23

Bs

changed my life. I’ve been interested in the law ever
since. Later, back in the States, I took night school law
classes and other things, though I never bothered to get
a legal degree. Anyway, this kind of thing wouldn’t
have happened at an American university.”

McManus came to Oxford after having already
completed an M.A. in Public Affairs at Princeton. “Af-
ter four years at Davidson and two at Princeton, I didn’t
feel that I would go all the way back and start a B.A.
over again. So I started a Doctor of Philosophy in the
Social Sciences, and though | never finished it, I en-

continued on 16

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN/14 January 1983
