8. Friday, October 21, 1983/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Wildcats Give Soulful Performance In 19-7 Loss

By SCOTT HUIE

Could the Wildcats have triumphed
in last Saturday’s game against South
Carolina State, a team currently ranked
6th nationally IAA and formerly ranked
number 1?

Maybe, but only if they had played
football as well as the SC State marching
band played “Freak-a-Zoid,” the hit
single from Midnight Star. In other
words, their execution would have had to
have been as precise as the band was
soulful. They weren’t, and consequently
they lost 19-7.

“For us to win against a team like
S.C. State,” said Farrell, “we have to be
almost perfect. And we were not that.
We played with a lot of emotion, and we
remained aggressive for the whole game.
Our disappointment stems from the fact
we had an opportunity to win the game.
Change the complexion of a couple of
plays, and we’re in it until the end.”

One of those plays was kicker Bob
Carr’s 37-yard field goal attempt in the
first quarter which bounced off the goal
post.

“That’s been pretty much our luck
this year,” said Farrell, ‘close, but. . .”

But no field goal, no points, another
loss.

As the offense sputtered like a °74
Pinto, the defense was presenting its own
version of the doomsday. Twice in the
first half the Bulldogs drove to inside the
Wildcat 10-yard line only to be stopped
both times on a fourth-and-one.

Improves Record To 10-1-1

eggy Pierotti

Those two goal-line stands were indi-
cative of the team’s inspired play. Said
S.C. State coach Bill Davis, “We were
embarrassed by Davidson. They lined up
and whipped our butts.”

Hardly the words of the winning
coach, but understandable when the ca-
sual betting observer would probably not
even take Davidson and 30 points.

The defense, however, was not free
of breakdown. Midway through the sec-
ond quarter, State’s quarterback con-
nected on a 32-yard post pattern over the
middle for the score. Momentum was
now beginning to drift. The Davidson
drill team shook their booties in ecstasy
as the drum section clamored out another

funky beat.
\

Keith Martin lets fly a bomb against S.C. State.

The Bulldogs’s final scores were a
third-quarter touchdown and a fourth-
quarter field goal. The first one hurt, and
reminiscent of the other games this year,
the specialty teams were the culprit.
Chasing down a Poag punt, the coverage
overran the play, and the SC State return
man ran untouched for 78 yards and a
touchdown.

Davidson finally broke the shutout
with just over a minute left. Reserve
quarterback Jeff Haney lofted a 14-yard
scoring strike to split end Todd Hermetz,
whose nifty stutter-step freed him from
the coverage.

Defensively, the destroyer was
strong safety Stockton Whitten, whose
fleetness of foot helped him to get in on

12 tackles.

Offensively, split end Jeff McSwain
caught five passes for 87 yards, upping
his total reception total to a team high 21
for 261 yards. The passing attack yielded
136 yards for the Cats as quarterback
Keith Martin, tailback Mike Cate, and
Haney all connected for key comple-
tions.

Davidson’s rushing attack, which
seemed to find itself the week before
against Guilford, bounced back into
obscurity as the team could gain only 55
yards on 30 carries. Subtract Poag’s 19-
yard run on a fake punt, and the Cats
barely gained a yard a carry.

Tomorrow, Davidson takes its act to
Charleston, South Carolina to play The
Citadel, 2-4. The Bulldogs feature a
sophisticated passing attack that often
uses five different receivers. Said Far-
rell, “Heck, they even come out of the
locker room throwing the ball.”

The Citadel’s record is a bit deceiv-
ing as two of their losses came to Divi-
sion | powers N.C. State and Tennessee
and the other two Southern Conference
leaders Appalachian State and UT-Chat-
tanooga.

So far the the Cats are 0-3 in the
Southern Conference. The last confer-
ence game counting toward the SC
championship they won was in 1973
when they edged the very same Bulldogs
19-16. That may be an omen, butJ doubt
It.

Huie’s Prediction:
Citadel 27, Davidson 17

Soccer Team Blows Out Conf erence Foe Marshall

By BOYD BLACKBURN

What was supposed to be a close one-
goal game Saturday became a blowout as
Davidson soccer beat conference foe
Marshall 6-0. This was by for the
Wildcats’ best showing of the year as
they equaled their largest victory margin
and improved their season record to 10-
1-1.

Davidson’s first goal, midway
through the first half, was characteristic
of the game and this year as a whole. It
was also the prettiest goal of the year.
Freshman Brian Shockley used his speed
to beat their outside fullback, took the
ball to the endline, and hit a line drive
cross in front of the goal. Mike Lufkin’s
diving header crisply deposited the ball
in the back of the net. Both players are
substitutes and both have helped give the
offense a certain snap, crackle, and pop.

- Throughout the game the Wildcats
played like professionals in front of the
net and made the most of their chances.

Tony Cabrales scored the second
goal. His cross deflected off the
fullbacks’ foot and drifted over the sur-
prised goal keeper. It was like a crack
opening at the base of a dam. Water pres-

Wildcats drive towards another goal.
sure widens the crack more and more

until water starts gushing through and the
dam collapses. In this way, the goals
started pouring in and Marshall’s en-
thusiasm died abruptly.

Davidson got the 3-0 lead they took
to halftime a Sean Austin’s breakaway
goal. At halftime, Coach Slagle was con-
cerned about a letdown because of the
commanding lead. That is what hap-
pened against Western Carolina when
the Cats were up 3-0 at the half. But com-
plete domination was the order of this
day.

Goals in the second half came from

" Mike Snell

Austin again or a scramble for a loose
ball, in front of the goal, Bill Coxhead
and an indirect free kick in the penalty
box, and Carter Grine, who hit the last
goal in after Jim Kelley’s punt pulled the
goalie out of position. Austin is now
third in scoring in the Southern Confet-

ence, and Grine’s goal was the first of fiis®

career and came with all the substitutes
in.

Indeed the offense was explosive this
day, but the defense has shown superb
consistency all year. The only game they
have given up more than one goal was
agaisnt Duke, the number one team in the

nation. Goalies Pat Woodward, Jim Kel-
ley, and Steve Cordon have combined
for six shutouts. The fullback crew of
Coxhead, Dan Blood, Dave Flowers,
and Jim Wright has the experience and
talent to stop almost any attack. Defense
is still Davidson’s trademark as Marshall
and several other teams have learned.
Last Thursday Herd was 2-0 in the
conference before the game and ap-
peared to be the main obstacle in David-
son’s quest for the conference champion-
ship. However, with the Marshall’s loss
here and the next day’s loss to ASU,
.Davidson is sitting pretty in control of
their own destiny. This weekend the

* Wildcats make their most important road

trip of the year. Today they play VMI in
Lexington, VA, and Sunday’s game is in
Huntington, WV, against Marshall. This
is the same road trip that killed their
chan¢ées last year as they lost both games.
Coach Slaglé has scheduled a day of rest
between the games and tried to prepare
the players mentally to avoid the same
disaster. Two wins this week would
clinch the North division of the Southern
Conference and put:them in the cham-
pionship game vs. the South division
winner.
