The Davidsonian / Friday, April 29, 1983 11

IMAC Undegoes Structural Revision

By BOBBY WINSTON

According to first-year Director of
Intramurals Caroline Brown, Fall term of
the 1983-84 school year will bring a sig-
nificant change to the structure of intra-
mural administration. The present IMAC
system operating under a President, or
“Czar” will give way to a fifteen-person
IMAC Council whose members will be
elected by the student body next year.

Brown, who also coaches the
women’s tennis team, believes the move
to an elected council “will better distri-
bute the responsibilities. It is very diffi-
cult for one student to handle all the re-
sponsibilities of IMAC.” She hopes the
measure will gain broader student repre-
sentation and provide a needed forum for
student feedback. Sign-ups are now un-
derway through 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, May
3, for upper-class independent represen-
tatives to the 1983-84 IMAC Council.
Elections of one male and one female
representative to the Council will be
Thursday, May 5, (all day) at the Com-
mons.

Brown says she will strive to make
representation equal for all campus
groups involved, such as eating houses,
Patterson Court fraternities, off-campus
fraternities, upperclass independents,
and freshmen

She has tentatively divided the coun-
cil into several committees. Each com-
mittee will devote itself to a particular
function such as disciplinary actions and

appeals, scheduling, or rankings. Also,
she is considering the election of officers
but that issue is “still in the formulation
stages.”

The new Council will meet every two
weeks to discuss general business and
policy-making. Brown plans to utilize
the new Council in an advisory capacity.

“They will help me identify the con-
cerns of the students. I will be in a better
position to make observations and from
there make some strong recommenda-
tions. I want to create a program desig-
ned for the students.”

Junior Doug Henson displayed the
strongest initiative among those students
concerned about IMAC policy. He deli-
vered a written proposal to Coach Brown
on March 10. Henson's proposal cited
that the reins of IMAC are too great a re-
sponsibility to be put in the hands of a
single person. Because an individual
does all the work and makes all the deci-
sions, there results a lack of continuity in
the system. Henson therefore asked for
the initiation of an IMAC Council. Such
a group could develop standards of pro-
cedure that could be consistently applied
to all situations.

Coach Brown described her first year
directing the intramural program as “‘sit-
ting back to see what the system was
working like.” She said that since the be-
ginning of the 1982-83 year she has re-
ceived input from several students who
felt that some areas of IMAC needed

If you have at least
two years of college left,

ot Army ROTC Basic

a pproximately 40)

And if Wok
can enter Sic a 3.

Year Program th

receive u

But

you can spend six weeks at

Camp this a |

strengthening.

Director of Physical Education Sterl-
ing Martin agrees that “changes are a lit-
tle past due.” Martin served as Director
of Intramurals from 1966-74 and during
the 1981-82 year. He said, “We need a
more clear-cut understanding of the
chain of command, on the part of the stu-
dents.”

Martin stated further that the idea of
an IMAC Council has actually been suc-
cessful in the past. During the mid-six-
ties an IMAC Council of thirteen mem-
bers met bi-monthly to supervise and
regulate the fierce rivalries that raged be-
tween the twelve national fraternity
teams and an independent squad. Each
team placed one representative on the
Council.

The emphasis of intramural policy
soon changed from competition to. in-
creased — participation,
accomodate the quickly growing interest
in intramural sports. Moreover,the
IMAC trophy for which the fraternities
competed was abolished in 1968. Frater-

however, to

nity involvement decreased steadily and
IMAC government began to decline.

Interest in intramural sports con-
tinued to wane as many of the fraternities
disbanded in 1971] (See related story p.
5).

Tight finances have taken their toll on
IMAC. When Davidson went co-ed in
1972 intramural money had to be spread
over two populations. Martin noted also

Shorts by
Birdwell, Woolrich
Jantzen, Duffel
Levi, and Munsingwear

Store hours: Mon thru Sat

that since he began working with the
intramural program the budget has in-
creased relatively little, from $600 in
1966 to a 1982-83 level of $2000. Al-
most all of the present budget is used to
pay referees.

As apathy toward IMAC grew in the
early 70's policy shifted toward the de-
velopment of a strong president to handle
the IMAC powers. “We looked for a stu-
dent with a strong interest in IMAC
sports, a person who would really get
into itand do all the work.”

Martin feels that strong leadership of
IMAC has been reached, but at the cost
of less organization. While recognizing
that present Czar Steve Soud has been
doing “a superb job.” Martin felt that
Soud has not been able to draw from pre-
cedents and traditions when formulating
guidelines for the IMAC program. Mar
tin supports: Brown's decision to re
vitalize the IMAC Council.

“College policy must: be stated and
enforced,” said Martin. “The students
must have an ultimate authority in intra

murals and... the overall responsibility

‘definitely rests with the Athletic Depart

ment.”
Soud also agrees that the move to es-

tablish a Council “will be better for the
program.” He adds though that a smooth
transition from Czar to Council will de-
pend on “how interested the people on
the Council are. People are going to have
to take it seriously.”

BEACH, SWIM, AND PLAYTIME

9 a.m. til 5:30 p.m.

John Mack & Son

Downtown Mooresville

Wade Anderson

THANK YOU SENIOR CLASS AGENTS

Caryn Hoskins

Geoff Andrews Chip Hurley Kathryn Murray
Brenda Baker Anne Hurt Sarah Nock

Al Baldwin Tim Johnston Laurie Noto

Hall Barnett Jeff Jordan Paul Ray

Buck Bradbury Anne Keith Tim Ritchie
Cindy Clark Robin Kidd Joyce Robinson
Neil Cooksey Elizabeth Kiss Carolyn Scott
Jim Crowe Ken Kreig Mitzi Short

True Davis Connie Kyle Laura Singleton
Lisa Draine Todd Lambert Tracy Thompson
Alan Fields Sherburne Laughlin Chris Tiernan
Sandy Fossett Kim McAlister Eric Weiss

Scott Haight Lee McCormick Margaret West
Gray Hampton Catherine McMillan Dale Withrow
Mark Harwick Elizabeth McMillan Boe Young

Lisa Herard Leesa McPhail Andy Zoutewelle
Ginger Holley Leslie Mills

WE SURPASSED OUR GOAL!

Sarah Moody

