6 Friday, October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian

Football Players:

nose guard Levi Jordan commented, the
team becomes closer by practicing to-
gether, like “one big family.”

Said Senior leader Jeff McSwain,
Farrell “doesn’t play down the fact that
we're a special group. But special
doesn’t mean separate.”

Farrell realizes that the “football
team is somewhat different from the rest
of the school,” but he tries very hard to
“make players aware that they are part of
the student body.”

History Professor David Shi, who
played varsity football at Furman, sees
“a certain clannishness developing”
among football players. He admits that it
is “understandable” given the stress they
undergo and the time they spend to-
gether. “Nevertheless,” said Shi, “one
would hope that at a small school like
Davidson it could be minimized.”

Dean of Students Will Terry would
also like to see football mainstreamed in
student life. ,

Said Terry: “Ideally what I hope for
the football program is a team composed
of students are well integrated into the
life of the campus. This includes frater-
nities and eating clubs, the spirit of the
college in terms of the honor system and
in terms of academic and community
life.”

“Such an integration,” Terry said,
“will elicit enthusiastic support and en-
couragement from all segments of the
student body and most other areas of the
campus.”

Sophomore cornerback Eric McC-
larty admits that the football team does
stick together, but he maintains they only
to do because they are forced to stick to-
gether. “All of us sit together,” said
McClarty, “not because we only want to
sit with ourselves, but because no one

else will sit with us.”

Stereotyping

Terry believes that it is “sometimes
true” that students stereotype players and
separate them from college life. Warned
Terry, “We always have to be careful of
categorizing people and ascribing to all
of them characteristics we see in one per-
son. Such categorization benefits no
one.”

McSwain agreed that the “dumb jock
image stereotype” is present at other
schools but not as bad at Davidson “‘be-
cause of the kind of a person you have to
be to get into Davidson.” He noted that
football players must pass the same en-
trance requirements that other students
must pass.

Jordan disagreed with McSwain. He
believes that most students view players
as a “subculture.” He also claimed that
this problem is especially bad for black
football players because they face two
kinds of discrimination.

Jordan said that when he was a
freshman a newsman from Channel-9
asked him if the only reason he got into
Davidson was because he was a football
player.

According to Jordan. “Basically,
around here, people look at the black
football players as someone who is not
supposed to be here. We are stereotyped
as being the bad guys on campus. Our so-
cial life is affected and even our grades in
class.”

Farrell does not believe that profes-
sors discriminate against his players but
he pointed out that “number of professors
don’t approve of the program we have,
which may affect the players.”

Actording to Shi, “There has been
for years a belief on the part of some stu-

Plott Scholarship

continued from page |

that the program will offer a unique alter-
native to a strict conservatory education.
“I know parents who want their talented
children to earn a Davidson degree in ad-
dition to a musical education,” Robinson
said.

Both Welsh and Griffith pointed out
that misunderstandings hav». occurred
between Robinson and themselves be-
cause Robinson is not directly involved
with the decisions made on campus.

“The program is still very rauch with-
in the original parameters,” Griffith said.
He explained that putting the dream of a
scholarship program into actuality takes
time. SO

Through the admissions department,
the College will begin a national cam-
paign for the program next year and will
conduct a competition for two Plott
scholarships for the 1984-85 school year,
according to Griffith. The committee
hopes to establish a panel of distin-
guished musicians which will choose
two Plott scholars each year.

The scholarship will provide $2,500
a year to each student, who will use the
money to pursue his or her own musical

interests. The music department will
ghee ie

guide and approve the student’s propo-
sals. Also, a Plott festival will be held an-
nually “to keep up the interest of the
people who have given,” Welsh said.

The Donald Plott Memorial Festival
Concert held last year has raised over
$300,000 for the Plott music scholarship
program. Two alumni, William Work-
man ’62 and Robinson, both distin-
guished musicians, performed in the fes-
tival along with other alumni musicians
and Zubin Mehta, music director of the
New York Philharmonic.

The upcoming Plott festival, sched--

uled for April 6, will feature a lecture by
Paul Hume, a friend of Plott’s and a re-
tired music critic of the Washington
Post. McDonald will also give her junior
recital at the festival.

Director of Development Jack Pow-
ers said an additional $80,000-100,000
must be raised in order to implement the
scholarship. es

The event fulfilled the desire of many
to honor Plott and establish a scholarship
in his name. In addition, the College.re-
ceived a grant ‘from the Hearst Founda-
tion to supplement the Plott scholarship
fund. Leeweeteae Chee

Cee Se Vara Se ~ fa

A Subculture With

continued from page |

in The Community?-

dents and rhembers of the football! pro-
gram that there may be a few professors
who discriminate. Personally, I would
find that hard to believe.” .

“It is true, however,” continued Shi,
“that there are faculty members who
have made it clear that they oppose the
program as currently established.”

Religion Professor David Kaylor is
one of those professors. Said Kaylor,
“From my perspective, subsidized athle-
tics of any kind should have no place at a
college or university.” He feels that the
whole football program ought to be re-
considered by a committee composed of
students, faculty, administrators, and
trustees.

Backstabbers

McSwain said that most players like
Farrell as a person and respect him as a
coach. They have faith in Farrell because
“he does the best he can. He works har-
der than anyone else,” he said.

But one player who wished to remain
anonymous said that Farrell called him a
“backstabber” when he quit the team.
Another player who wished to remain
anonymous said that although he re-
ceived no personal] verbal abuse after he
quit, he knows that Farrell abused him in
front of other players and told players not
to associate with him anymore.

McSwain said that he has indirectly
heard about Farrell abusing his players.
but he has never seen a coach “flagrantly
abuse a player in front of the team.
Sometimes he [Farrell] will talk about
how he’s upset about people quitting.
Pve never heard him mention names,” he
said.

Farrell denied these allegations. He
said players “realize that I don’t take
kindly to someone quitting the team,”
but he distinguishes between quitting the
team and reevaluating a commitment.

At the end of each season between
November and January, Farrell asks his
players to evaluate their commitment to
the program. If they decide that they no
longer want to play, then he will not hold
it against them. Farrell would understand
why someone quit in the middle of the
season only if football came between him
and “God, family, country.”

Farrell also believes “studies are a
weak excuse for quitting the team. If you
have time to goof around or to do any-
thing else, then you have time to study.”

Of the 29 or so freshman who enter
Davidson’s football program, around 15
are still on the team by senior year. Most
players decide in their first two years
whether they want to stay on the team.

He noted that Davidson’s attrtion rate
for football is good when compared to
other schools: at Dartmouth 20-25 of the
85 freshmen who enter the program
finish it; at Harvard 20-25 of the 120
freshmen who enter the program finish
it.

Shi said he has heard stories about
“the immature way” in which the coach-
ing staff has handled players who quit.
“If what P’'ve heard is true,” said Shi,
then he said it would be scandalous at a
place like Davidson.

The players who quit because of a
personal problem, affirmed his con-
tinued support for the team, but he does
question Farrell’s policy toward quitters.
He said that Farrell should be more con-
cemed with each player’s development
as a human being, regardless of whether
it involves football.

According to this former player, Far-
rell makes quitters feel as if they'll
“never amount to anything once they
quit. If you quit the team you’ll beat your
wife, and kids, you’!] be a quitter for the

‘rest of your life.”

Said Farrell, “I feel very strongly
about anyone quitting anything.”

Chapel Hour

continued from page |

to Summers, the meetings would be held
in the gallery and an informal reception
would follow.
“I think it is a very important symbol
of our being a church-related college in a
‘non-sectarian way,” CCRL Chairman
-and Dean of Students Will Terry said. He
also found it “significant that the students
{on the committee] are the ones who are

overwhelmingly for it, and the faculty ~

are divided on the issue.”
Faculty Opposition

Opposition to the recommendation
centers around the religious nature of the
gatherings. English Professor John En-
gell is in favor of an hour set aside for as-
semblies and speakers but objects to the
name “chapel hour.” He fears what he
calls an “over-emphasis on. Davidson’s
religious orientation.”

Engell said Davidson is perceived as
a fine school and a Protestant school, and
that perception often limits the kind of
people who apply to Davidson. “We
would be a stronger school if we attracted

_ more Catholic or Jewish students, for.ex- .

ample,” he said.

Having a College-sanctioned ‘chapel
hour” included as such in the College
schedule “would send the wrong signals
to other students and to Davidson stu-
dents,” according to Engell.

Student CCRL member Hartley Hall
said the title “chapel hour” does not
necessarily denote a Protestant assem-
bly, and he stressed the interdenomina-

‘tional nature of the proposed assemblies.

The idea of the assembly is to “appeal to
a broader spectrum of students than
Davidson Christian Fellowship or other
strictly religious groups,” he said.

Summers said “the idea is now purely
in the discussion stages.”

As recently as 30 years ago, David-
s@n students were required to attend
chapel six days a week. Each student had
an assigned seat in Love Auditorium and
roll was taken from the balcony, The pro-
gram usually included a hymn, an ad-
dress by a guest speaker and general Col-
lege announcements. “Chapel” was
abolished in.1969 after.a stydent strike, .
