6 Friday, April 15, 1983/The Davidsonian

The Kenya Connection -
Davidson Graduates Teach in Mud Huts.

By EMMA CARNE

For several years, some of David-
son’s more independent and adventurous
graduates have been going to Africa for a
year or more to teach in secondary
schools. Although not on any official
Davidson program, around seven David-
son students per year obtain teaching
posts in Kenyan village schools.

Many of these students have ended
up as headrhasters at their respective
schools; other help set up fundraising
projects, teach sports, run day centers for
children, start chess clubs, and organize
a variety of activities in addition to their
teaching. Most teach in Harambee
schools set up and funded by the villages
themselves from their own resources.
These schools seek to reach a certain
level of academic proficiency. at the high
school level, at which point the govern-
ment will assist financially or even take
over altogether. Davidson students are
particularly valued as teachers at the
Harambee schools, because the few
well-educated villagers often prefer to
teach at the richer, better-equipped gov-
ernment schools. The native teachers of
the Harambee schools may have little
more than a high school education them-
selves.

The schools — both co-educational
and single sex — vary in size from 30 to
400 pupils. All schools are at high school
level, and some are affiliated with pri-
mary schols. Subjects taught include
math, physics, chemistry, religious edu-
cation, English, history, geography, and
biology.

Many of the students are much older
than American high school students, and
this may well be a daunting prospect for a
22-year-old graduate to find himself in
authority over some students in their mid
twenties. The teaching system is much
more authoritatiran, using some corporal
punishment.

i

John Stanback, a senior planning to
go to Kenya at the end of this year, feels
that such discipline could be difficult to
enforce, accustomed as Americans are to
a far more liberal system. Stanback will
go to Africa in November and begin
work at a school in! January when their
school year starts. He will pricipally
teach English, and although he will teach
lessons speaking in English, he is cur-
rently learning Swahili.

Edith” Parker, a Davidson graduate
now teaching in a Harambee school in
Kenya, feels there is too much emphasis
on learning by heart. “They spend too
much of their effort on memorizing . . .
not enough on applied thinking,” she
says in a letter to a Clinton, N.C. news-
paper. She does feel, however, that stu-
dents are particularly motivated and pre-

Rape Seminar Held

By LEE WHITE

Mecklenburg Police officer Jamie

Ballard gave a presentation on rape pre-
vention during a two-hour program spon-
sored by the Women’s Concerns Com-
mittee Wednesday night in the Morrison
Room.
Ballard described security measures
to help insure safety in the car, when
walking, and at home. Being alert to
dangerous situations can help decrease
one’s chances of being raped, she said.

She encouraged the audience to think
about their reaction in case of rape. Bal-
lard stressed the importance of keeping
in control and remaining calm. She
suggested stalling the rapist and trying to
communicate with him.

In case of rape, the first thing to dois

to seek medical attention. Ballard recom-
mended reporting the rape, claiming that
the rapist will usually continue to rape
unless he is caught. To help a victim, the
Mecklenburg County Rape Crisis Center
provides immediate support during the
initial procedures of seeking medical
help and reporting the rape.

Officer Ballard demonstrated some
simple ‘self-defense techniques anyone
could use. She showed various methods
of escaping from an assailant’s grasp,
and pointed out vulnerable areas of the
body. The object of this type of resis-
tance is simply to inflict pain on the
rapist, thus enabling the victim to es-
cape.

Officer Ballard concluded her pre-
sentation by expressing her gratitude to
the audience of 70 for being.so attentive.

Wa.

pared.

Thoma Bates 82, who has been in
Africa four months now, appears form a
recent letter to be having a very enjoy-
able time despite “minor disadvantages”
such as no electricity and a far from
efficient telephone system. “The area is
extremely beautiful, the climate is per-
fect (60-80 degrees year round), the
Kikuyu, people aré wonderfully warm
and generous, and the atmosphere of the
village and surrounding areas is gener-
ally positive and pleasurable,” he writes.
He is “the only white member on a staff
of eight. Any responsibilities are in the
area of teaching only . . . but my input
and suggestions are welcomed.” ~

Obtaining and maintaining work per-
mits have caused some problems in re-
cent years. However, since the schools

are church-linked, associations such as
the Presbyterian or Catholic Church can
usually help out by persuading the au-
thorities that Davidson students are the
only ones qualiiied for the posts.

Clearly this is not a project for the
timid or inhibited; but for those prepared
to brave having to walk to the river for
water, live off maize, corn, and beans,
and have an inefficient sanitary system,
the experience and rewards are measure-
less.

Other seniors planning to go to
Kenya this year are Dave Burns, Gary
McDonald, Mike Mason, Walt Dean,
Chuck Hasty, and Cathy Cantwell.
Further information on the Kenya Con-
nection is available from Careers Office
director Ken Wood in the basement of
the Union.

NORTON’S
BARBER SHOP

Barber for Men and Women

You name it — we’ll style it

127 North Main Street
Davidson

