4 Friday , October 28, 1983/The Davidsonian

Edward Pearce Criticizes Peace Movement

By KERRY HOLBROOK,
ROXANNA GUILFORD,
and ELIZABETH WINTERMUTE

“Peace movements are mistaken and
wrong,” said Edward Pearce to a David-
son audience Tuesday evening.

Pearce addressed.a group of about
forty students on the subject “British and
European Peace Movements, The Re-
sistable Rise of the European Surrender
Lobby” Tuesday night in the Morrison
Room.

The British journalist touched on a
variety of issues, including the causes of
World War I. He suggested two main
points, that the Peace Movement is not
‘indicative of public opinion in Western
Europe, and while the pattern of foreign
relations in the United States has been
non-aggressive, it is now crucial that the
United States becomes aggressive, deci-
sive, and consistent especially when
dealing with the Soviet Union.

When discussing his first point con-
cerning the peace movement, Pearce
pointed to recent elections in England
and Germany. Both former English labor
Prime Minister C@Hahan, and former
Chancellor Schmidt of West Germany
are in favor of deployment of the Perhs-
ing II’s and cruise missiles scheduled for

deployment in December. “We want the
missiles” said Pearce. “It is a myth to be-
lieve that the United States forced them
upon England and Germany. You can

protest as much as you want,” Pearce
went on, but “an election, is an election,
is anelection. . . . There is no vast sim-

INTERESTED IN A MASTERS DEGREE IN
ACCOUNTING?
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION?
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION?

Discover Rice University’s
Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration

October 3, 1983

For Further Information, Contact
Careers Office

Please send an application and a brochure about
Rice University’s JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL to:

NAME (please print)

ADDRESS
CITY _ STATE ZIP
COLLEGE a DEGREE DATE
RICE UNIVERSITY
JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION
P.O. BOX 1892

HOUSTON, TEXAS 77251
(713) 527-4893

Rice University is an equal opportunity/
affirmative action institution

Peggy Pierotti

ai

cai

mering feverish public opinion crying
out for peace.”

When questioned about the risk in-
volved in deploying the Pershing II's,
which are considered to be first strike
weapons, in West Germany (giving the
Soviet Union four to six minutes re-
sponse time to false alarms caused by
computer foul up), Pearce replied that in
his opinion the Pershing II’s are not first
strike weapons. In order for a weapon to
be a first strike weapon, he held, a coun-
try would have to be able to win a war
with it. Furthermore, due to non-aggres-
sive natue of the U.S., the Soviets will
not perceive the missiles to be first strike,
thus the possibility of an accident is ir-
relevant.

Pearce also spoke of the connection
that the Peace movement in Europe has
with the world Peace Council which is
controlled by the Communist Movement
for Disarmament. He pointed out the fact
that the last several meetings of The
World Peace Council have been in Soviet
bloc countries. The relationship which
the European Peace Movement has with
this council wipes out any credibility the
movement might have had. Pearce

strongly stated that one “must be some-
thing of a fool to play politics with the

through May 31, 1984.

© 1983 Hardees Food Systems Inc

” May 31,1984

©1983 Hardee s Food systems Inc

MAKE TRACKS FOR THE
BEST EATIN’ALL AROUND !

The next time you stop bv for the Best Eatin’
along this money-s iin’ Coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
OHAHGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this coupon before ordering. One vc ++. per customer, per
visit, please Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not gdod in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours
only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants

World Peace Council.” The European
Peace Movement, he argued, is only
hurting our chances for peace, which will
come from the maintenance of a strong
posture before the Soviets and the world.

The Soviets, Pearce maintains, are
realists with a will to win. They will
negotiate seriously only when they re-
spect the United States, and that will be
when the United States engages in ag-
gressive power politics. Pearce traced
American policies from the MacNamara
freeze to the Carter administration stat-
ing that the United States has acted on the
assumption that it we build, they build, if
we stop, they stop. But, in reality, it be-
came if we stop, they build. For exam-
ple, when Carter “held out the olive
branch to the Soviet Union,” they replied
by building 200 SS 20's.

Pearce calls on the United States not
to be fooled by the “hysterical” peace
movement. The U.S. must act like Rus-
sia, he said. If not then the United States
will “flunk this test” and England and
Europe will become vulnerable to be-
coming client states of Russia.

This stop for Pearce was the last a
three week trip along the East Coast
sponsored by the Industrial Council on
education.

bring

Hardees

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's Restauran’s through

Hardees |
