THE DAVIDSONIAN

No Student Evaluation
Forms this Term

By JEFFREY MANN

Vice-president for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zim-
mermann announced this week that he
and College President Sam Spencer had
decided not to accept the prose form for
faculty evaluation proposed by the facul-
ty Professional Affairs Committee
(PAC). Zimmermann said it is unlikely
that any official evaluation would be
done this term.

The PAC withdrew its form from
consideration at the faculty meeting last
Tuesday.

The faculty voted last term to drop
the ICES evaluation forms. which use rat-
ing scales and checkoffs in favor of prose

Alexander McKelway

forms. The proposed form asked stu-
dents to write out their opinions about a
course instead of marking opinions on a
one to five scale.

No alternate form was ready for last
term, so professors could voluntarily opt
to use the ICES forms, which had already
been ordered. Zimmermann said that
though over half the faculty picked up the
forms, about twenty turned the com-
pleted forms into his office.

In a letter to PAC Chairman Profes-
sor Alexander McKelway, Zimmermann
said that he and Spencer felt that al-
though “the proposed questionnaire may
well be a help to the individual instructor

. . we do not feel that it will be of suffi-
cient value as an instrument of faculty
evaluation to warrant the time and extra
assistance which would be necessary to
process and read approximately 3000 in-
dividual forms for each term.”

McKelway said that his committee
would be “sitting down with the Dean to
see what ideas he has. . . . We're a little
puzzled that he voiced his objections at
this juncture. We thought that either side
would accept what the faculty decided.
Apparently we were mistaken.”

“We want a system which will speak
to student opinion as to quality of teach-
ing in a form which is usable,” Zimmer-
mann said. He hopes that the Adminis-
tration and the PAC will “work together,
with the possible help and support of stu-
dent representatives on a workable in-
strument of faculty evaluation.”

McKelway said that “student opinion
will be heard, though I don’t know in
what way.” He pointed out that the PAC
had met with the SGA representatives in
developing the proposed prose form.

The Code of Faculty Evaluation Pro-
cedure says that “students are in an espe-
cially favorable position to assess the in-
structor’s enthusiasm for the subject,
concern for them, and clarity in presenta-
tion. . . . ascertained by means of inter-
views, letters, evaluation forms, or other
methods.”

Zimmermann said he is relying on
ICES forms from past years and student
interviews. “Student imput will be re-
duced,” he said. He still interviews five
students during tenure reviews, but he
points out that these interviews are far
less comprehensive than a more general
evaluation system.

fo

ed

Warren Gould, Be

adsie Woo, and Hunter Monroe at Monday’s open forum

PCSC Begins New Poll

By DAN VOORHIS

The Patterson Court Study Commit-
tee 1s working ona generalizable and rep-
resentative assessment of student opin-
ion toward the self-selection system. The
committee will conduct a student survey
despite defeat of the idea at Tuesday's
SGA meeting.

Committee Chairman Warren Gould
announced his intention to complete a
survey without SGA approval at a
Wednesday night PCSC meeting. Politi-
cal Science professor Thomas Kazee as-
sisted in writing the survey questions
which range in opinion from strict self-
selection to a two-tier system to the
PCSC proposal. In addition, it contains a
query about overall satisfaction with the
current system.

Guided by Kazee, the poll 1S a ran-
dom sampling of 300 students which will
be generalizable to the entire student
body, according to Gould. He hopes it
will provide powerful evidence to con-
vince the Trustees to alter current self-
selection policy.

At Tuesday's SGA meeting, Gould
asked that a poll be conducted to gauge
accurately student sentiment. Opposition
to the proposal was vocal. Senator Keith
Revell felt the idea was “superfluous,”
because student interviews and a ques-
tionnaire had already been completed.
Gould’s motion was defeated 10-3.

Faculty Delays Action on Semesters

By DUNCAN FRASER

The Faculty considered a motion
Tuesday to extend the previously ap-
proved 28-week academic year to 30
weeks, 2. chene>-proposed by College
President Samuel Spencer. They delayed
action on Spencer’s proposal until the
Faculty Executive Committee meets
with the Trustee Executive Committee to
discuss the situation.

In a March 31 letter Spencer asked
the Faculty to reconsider its decision on
the length of semesters. According to
Spencer, Business Manager Bob Currie
and Comptroller Robert Davidson ap-
proached him with “concern over poten-
tial problems” which the change from a

30-week academic year to a 28-week
year might create.

When the Committee on the Calendar
contacted Davidson and Currie earlier in
the year, they did not understand that a
change from quarters to semesters also
entailed decreasing the number of weeks
students would be on campus.

The problems with the 14-week
semester arise out of students being on
campus two weeks fewer per year, ac-
cording to Spencer. Personnel in the food
service and laundry would have to be
paid while no revenue would be coming
in.

Spencer said that problems might
arise also in the area of work-study stu-

dent aid. Students currently work thirty
weeks at ten hours per week, but under
the 14-week system, a student would
lose two weeks and be forced to work
eleven .hours during the remaining
weeks.

In his letter, Spencer said the Trus-
tees had expressed “strong concerns
about the change” partly because of busi-
ness problems and “partly because of the
general tendency in colleges and univer-
sities to abbreviate further the on-campus
academic experience.”

The problem essentially concerns the
principle of “whether students are on
campus 14 or 15 weeks,” said Spencer.

(Continued on page 4)

The next question raised at the meet-
ing was what to do with the PCSC propo-
sal itself. PCSC member Burt Taylor
suggested that it be moved through all
steps of student approval in order to
“have it ready for the new president to re-
view.” The senators decided to shelf the
proposal until next week so that SGA
members could digest it fully.

After the meeting, Gould said he was
“flabbergasted that not more people
voted for a poll.” He said that the poll
done by Kazee’s public opinions class
contains nothing about the PCSC propo-
sal, and despite the committee's work,
nothing genuinely generalizable has re-
sulted.

An open forum held last Monday pro-
duced little consensus among the 25 stu-
dents attending it. Gould presented two
proposals: the PCSC_ proposal which
would legitimize “oral encouragements”
and improve freshman indoctrination
into the Court; and a proposal written by
sophomores Ross Holt and Pete Skillern
which would eliminate all encourage-
ments and require full enforcement of
self-selection.

Gould appointed four new members
to the PCSC at the Wednesday meeting:
Hunter Monroe, Lentz Ivey, Ross Holt,
and Todd Wiebusch. Other members are
Pete Skillern, Warren Gould, Pat Wood-
ward, Burt Taylor, and Beadsie Woo.

Reported by Ross Holt

Inside This Week

‘Poor Murderer!: The spring
theater production is a convoluted
thing. Read the review and back-
ground on page 8

‘Women’s Tennis: The 3.5-
plus group goes for an NCAA bid.
Story on page 13

‘Selectivity: A passively dis-
couraged freshman examines frater-
nity selectivity. See page 15

*"SGA_ Focus: Read about
Davidson's own student govern-
ment. Candid interview with Presi-
dent Hunter Monroe. Pages 5 and 6

