Wednesday, December 14, 1983/The Davidsonian 9

OPINIONS

Central American Realities Must Be Acknowledged

Dr. Brian Shaw

I hesitate to respond to Dr. Hernandez-Chiroldes’s
essay, “Quantitative Values and Qualitative Concepts,”
in the Davidsonian of December 7. To attempt a point-
by-point rebuttal of the distortions and logical fallacies
which mar the essay would be a lengthy and tedious un-
dertaking, of profit neither to myself nor to the readers of
this paper. More to the point, perhaps, is my reluctance
to return to this piece and to dwell upon the surprisingly
ad hominem attacks which it contains against myself and
my views of Central American politics.

I do, however, feel compelled to briefly note three
things about the present situation in Central America.
These realities need be addressed if any sense is to be
made of the events taking place in the region, or if any
hope is to be had of achieving a just and lasting peace
there. These are the following:

1)First, it must be stated forthwith that contemporary
Nicaragua is not a civil libertarian paradtse. I know of no
person whose opinion I respect who ever alleged that it
is. But neither, it must immediately be added, is this an
option which history has placed on the Nicaraguan
agenda. Nicaragua is a desperately poor country bur-
dened with a long history of foreign domination. The
struggle by the Nicaraguans against a half-century of
dictatorship—sponsored and supported by successive
American administrations—has left neither the Nicara-
guan economy nor its political system in a state of robust
good health. If one adds to this unhappy history the con-
tinuing assaults on Nicaragua by hostile armed forces,
one clearly sees the real constraints imposed upon the
Nicaraguans. I know of no nation which has responded
to a state of seige by suddenly expanding its democratic
institutions. The history of our own country is instruc-
tive in this regard. The first draconian legislative restric-
tions of political rights in this country, the Alien and
Sedition Acts of 1798, declared almost any criticisms of
the government a crime. Indeed, as to the question of
elections following a revolutionary situation, it was al-
most a decade after our own struggle against foreign
domination that free elections were held to formalize the
new state of affairs. These lapses from strict democratic
procedures, it must be stressed, occurred under condi-
tions much more favorable to their development than
those currently experienced by the Nicaraguan govern-
ment.

2)What, then, are the options available to the Nicara-
guans, if not the opportunity to suddenly transform their
battered nation into a democratic showcase? Two op-
tions, it seems to me, are preeminent.

The first of these is a continuation and intensification
of the efforts of the Sandinista government to improve
the welfare of its citizens. This is a regime which does
seek to address the very real material and social needs of
the vast majority of its people. In the fields of health,
education and employment, the Sandinistas have acted
vigorously in the face of staggering odds to improve the
welfare of the nation. And the Nicaraguan people have
responded to these attentions. They have not, as the
Reagan administration initially claimed, gone over to
the contras. They have, on the contrary, wielded what
few weapons they have against the contras, in support of
their nation.

The second option is a return to the prerevolutionary
status quo, achieved with some help from the armies of
Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador—and the United
States. This would be the reestablishment of a brutal au-
thoritarian dictatorship in Nicaragua. Are the democra-
tic liberties so noisily demanded by opponents of the

Sandinistas to be installed in Nicaragua at the point of El
Salvoradorian and Guatemalan bayonets? Would the ex-
tension of the government sponsored death squads of
Guatemala and El Salvador be a victory for “freedom” or
“democracy” in Nicaragua? I think not.

3)Finally, it needs be noted that the universally un-
happy situation in Central America is not one amenable
to a purely military solution achieved by the armed
forces of any party in the region. The choice for Ameri-
can policy makers—and for the American citizens. in
whose name they act—is not simply . between
isolationism and military intervention. There are, on the
contrary, options available to the United States, the
Nicaraguans, and the other concerned states of Latin
America, which are not predicated upon a total military
victory by one side or another. The decidedly anti-com-
munist governments of Mexico, Venezuela, Columbia
and Panama—the so-called Contradora group—have
actively lobbied for a negotiated settlement to the con-

The Reality

Eric Hill

Never has an assault on man’s mind been quite as se-
vere as the one by those who proclaim the superiority of
faith to reason. Such an assault was made in the Opin-
ions item entitled “The Kernel of Faith,” which appeared
in the last issue of The Davidsonian (Dec. 7). Reason
was never mentioned in the article, but when one de-
clares that faith is the tool to be employed in discovering
reality, he leaves reason no possible function.

So what is this “reason,” and why am I so upset when
[hear it slandered? Reason, or rational thought, involves
the integration of interpreted sense data (percepts) into
concepts, which are the tools of human thought. The
senses represent one’s sole means of contact with real-
ity. The quality and quantity of sense data used in ra-
tional thought to develop concepts will determine the
quality of the concepts, that is, the degree to which they
correspond to the facts of rational thought; without
them, no thought would be possible. Even deductive
reasoning is based on relationships rooted in sense ex-
perience.

Why is rational thought so important? Well, all or-
ganisms that have ever existed for any length of time
have had some means of survival available to them. Ex-
amples include superior speed or strength, good in-
stincts, and many others. Man has no instincts past the
age of one year and cannot be said to display superiority
in any physical characteristic. His main means of survi-
val is his mind. The quality of his concepts (i.e., their
degree of correspondence with the facts of reality) will
determine whether he is to survive, and if he survives,
the quality of that survival.

Our complex society, insulates some members from
the need to think rationally, because the quality of the
thought of a minority of individuals creates enough
wealth for virtually all to survive; however, if one
abstracts away from society and imagines a man on a
deserted island, with no one to help him but himself, his
decision whether or not to use his mind will be his deci-
sion whether or not to survive. The fact that men do not
live on deserted islands does not diminish the value of
such an abstraction.

So where does faith fit into all this? Ayn Rand de-
fines faith as the “commitment of one’s consciousness to

_ beliefs for which one has no sensory evidence or rational

proof.” Thus, the decision to abandon reason for the

flict. To date, the Nicaraguans have vigorously accom-
odated these and other efforts to achieve a peaceful—
and mutually advantageous—settlement. The United
States, on the other hand, has failed to do so and has in-
sistently hampered all such efforts. Why? Apparently
because the Reagan Administration is not seriously in-
terested in a resolution of the conflict in the region, nor,
by extension, in the establishment of political rights,
which is predicated upon precisely such a peaceful set-
tlement being achieved.

Until these realities are acknowledged, no attempt to
establish a just and stable situation in Central America
will succeed. Those who will suffer most immediately
from this failure, of course, are the Nicaraguan people.
But there are other victims as well, including those per-
sons of good will everywhere who long for the establish-
ment of human rights throughout Central America.

Shaw is Mellon Assistant Professor of Political Science

Of Reason

sake of faith is the decision to abandon reality, to aban-
don the mind, and to abandon life. The “leap of faith” is
head first, off a thousand-foot cliff.

In light of this, it is not surprising that the authors of
“The Kernel of Faith” consider dreams of financial suc-
cess as opiate-like. First, let me say that financial suc-
cess 1s nothing but a proxy for a comfortable life. Ra-
tional men pursue money, not for its own sake, but for
the things for which it can be traded — food, clothing,
Tanqueray, etc. Second, for the man who considers the
world to be unintelligible, and considers himself but a
pawn, buffeted to and fro by forces of good and evil
beyond his control, who thinks that his chance of leading
a comfortable life is directly proportional to how hard he
wishes for it, his goals will never be anything but
dreams.

The rational man realizes that he controls his own
destiny, and that all successful goal-directed action in-
volves the use of reason. He knows that with the proper
use of his mind, all goals, including the goal of a com-
fortable life, become attainable. The rational man also
realizes that in order to get money, he must provide
something of value in exchange for it, and he knows that
the things he possesses which have the greates potential
value to others are his ideas. Thus, Cooper and Lorenz
were partially right. Those who have goals such as finan-
cial success and think they can be attained by some
method which does not involve the mind are indeed hal-
lucinating addicts.

Also implied in the comment that dreams of financial
success are opiate-like is the judgment that such goals
are improper, or sinful, for men to be pursuing. Both my
disagreement with this judgment and with the idea that
men should place faith above reason are rooted in the fol-
lowing comments about the nature of God. I am assum-
ing in these comments that Cooper and Lorenz would
agree that for God to be worth following , He would have
to be benevolent. First, no benevolent God would create
a race of creatures, give them the ability to achieve virtu-
ally limitless levels of wealth and comfort, and then
order them to abstain, to suffer out 60 or 70 years at a
meager subsistence. Second, no benevolent God would
create a race of creatures, give them the ability to reason
as their only means of survival, and then command that
they abandon it, which means ordering them to abandon
life.

Hill is a senior economics major from Fairview,
Pennsylvania.
