From the Study Room

Intramural College Bow! moves down to the wire

BY MARVIN OVERBY ’83

Following many weeks of intense head-to-head
competition, the 20 teams in this year’s Intramural
College Bowl Competition ended the regular season on
December 13 and began tournament action on Mon-
day, January 3.

After playing four regular season games, the top
two teams in each of the four divisions advanced to the

post season tourney. In the perennially weak National —

League East the Omniscients (also known as Diana and
the Reaganauts) and BBC Again, both 3-1, advanced.
In the powerful NL West, Wrath of the Romulans (4-0)
and Herpes Simplex N (3-1) moved into the tourna-
ment. The American League East was represented by
Quasi-Total Absence (3-1) and Harding House (2-2).
The AL West saw Buzz Aldrin and Going to a Go-Go,
both 3-1, beat out the odds makers’ pre-season favor-
ite, I Phelta Thi.
Tournament Play

In Monday night’s first round of double elimina-
tion tournament action, nine games were played. In the
initial pairings the Romulans trounced BBC, Harding
House came from behind to squeak by Go-Go, Herpes
edged the Omniscients and Quasi crushed Buzz. In los-
ers’ bracket games BBC bowed out to Go-Go and
Buzzz finished off the Omniscients. In the winners’
bracket Harding House was held to 5 second half points

as the Romulans extended their winning streak to 6
games, and Herpes upset number one ranked Quasi
320-145. In the last game of the night, in the losers’
bracket, Go-Go averaged an earlier loss to Harding
House and moved into the semi-finals of the losers’
bracket.
The Final Five

After Monday’s nine games five teams are left in
the intramural tournament. The Association of College
Bowl Writers has ranked them as follows.

No. 1—Herpes Simplex IV (5-1)—A savvyand ex-
perienced team, this group of ATO-type radicals is im-
pressive. Led by seniors John Lusk and Jeff Dempsey,
the team is balanced and well rounded—as all good
Zeros should be. Look for them to settle a score with
the Romulans and go all the way. Coach’s Corner:
Control the offensive boards and pray for a miracle.

No. 2—Wrath of the Romulans (6-0)—Paced by
League MVP Chris Blake, the Romulans are making
people forget about their more publicized hallmates
Captain Watson’s Beef Trust. The Romulans are
strong in pop-culture and—since they are all sopho-
mores—anything taught in Humes. Coach’s Corner:
Put a diamond and one around Blake and control the
tempo.

No. 3—Quasi—Total Absence (4-2) This is a free-
agent team composed of all seniors. Featuring former

Guttersnipe John Odell and former Turtlewoman Lau-
ra Singleton, Quasi has the most impressive offensive
stats in the league—including a 300-20 drubbing of
fifth ranked Buzz Aldrin. Everyone on the team can
score, but like most free agents they are erratic.
Coach’s Corner: You have to beat them at their own ga-
me—the interrupt. Also making fun of Laura’s laugh
and JO’s height might help.

No. 4—Going to a Go-Go (5-2) Also known as Lee
McCormick’s Revenge, this is PAX’s contribution to
the final five. Tim McGaughey and Ann Meador lead
this rag-tag assortment of Rolling Stone fans. They are
scrappy and smart—for their ages that is. Coach’s
Comer: Take them seriously. Play Meador to pull the
ball and keep the infield at double-play depth.

No. 5—Buzz Aldrin’s (4-2) Featuring three former
Hi-Q players from East Meck, Buzz is a team with a fu-
ture. Unfortunately for them, in the present they must
find a way to beat Quasi in their rematch. Coach’s
Corner: Talk to Quasi.

Intercollegiate College Bowl

On the senior circuit, the intercollegiate "Cats won
their first tournament of the year at the Berry College
{nvitational in November. Team captain Brad Mullis
was named tournament MVP. During the coming
weeks the team will travel to the UNCC Invitational in
Charlotte (Jan. 12) and the regional tournament in
Knoxville (February 10-12).

Video Warrior Surveys Games

What’s hot, what’s not in video amusement

By MATT MORRIS ’86

Video games: the pet peeve of parents, materialists

and psychiatrists everywhere is also a national habit
that swallows millions in quarters each day. The need
for a video fix hasn’t escaped Davidson campus and
this week’s edition of the Video Warrior takes a look at
some of the games in and around the College commu-
nity. Also included for those beginners seeking to im-
prove their game are some hot tips from established
pros.
1) Ms. Pac-Man—The Video Warrior flashes into the
Sony café, and through the onion ring haze finds the
best of video games—Ms. Mac-Man, wearing a bow
on her smooth yellow head. The object of the game is
to eat all the dots on the screen while avoiding the ever-
present threat of some treacherous ghosts with “inno-
cent” names like “Speedy” and “Sue”. The graphics
are colorful with Ms. Pac-Man munching away at the
dots on the screen in an often dramatic attempt to clear
the board. Periodically, fruits-for-bonus-points
bounce into action. Also, in between screens, there is a
romantic video interlude, beginning with “The Meet-
ing between Ms. Pac-Man and Pac-Man” and ending
with “Baby Pac-Man’. This video game seems to be an
illuminated moral manifesto for the 80s because there
is no “Wedding of the Pac-Mans” in evidence. Senior
Mary Carpenter, quarter-a-day Ms. Pac-Man player,
says, “I used to be really down on video games—I
thought they messed with little kids’ minds.” Now,
however, she has seen video games in a different light
and admits, “They are just plain fun.” Many sought out
Ms. Pac-Man as a relief to her strenuous exam sche-
dule in the spring of ’82 and has been hooked ever
since.

2) Dig Dug—Now the Video Warrior moves over to
another seat in the snack bar to examine a different type
of video game entitled Dig Dug. Dig Dug is a quiet and
unobtrusive game and that’s precisely why Freshman
high-scorer Otto Ferrene likes it. “Dig Dug isn’t like
the other games,” says Otto. The object of Dig Dug is
to carefully manuever your man through underground
caves, killing an assortment of monsters with names
like “Pooka” and “Fygar” (at least they sound more
hideous than “Sue’”’). Otto’s main strategy is to keep a
distance from the creatures as long as possible and try
to drop rocks on them from above. Fruit plays an im-
portant part in the game as well, for when a player

‘drops two-rocks, a produce appears on the screen that

can be consumed in much the same manner as Ms. Pac-
Man would eat something. Dig Dug is a clever game,
but recently there have been complaints that the ma-
chine in the Union Café is faulty, so be careful!

3) Asteroids—This golden oldie, while decreasing in
popularity, has been in the Café for over two years. As-
teroids is (or was) a revolutionary video game because
of it’s complex graphics. The object of Asteroids is to
carefully manuoever your spaceship through a field of
rocks shooting them as you go. The more you hit a par-
ticular rock, the smaller it gets until ultimately the aste-
roid disintegrates. Upon destroying all rocks a new
wave of Asteroids are hurled at your spaceship all over
again. James Rozzelle, a junior at Davidson, and re-
tired Asteroids player said he gave up the game,
“When it interferred with (my) sex life.” Rozzelle was
once known for his astounding ability to destroy aste-
roids at an alarming pace. Those days are over Roz-
zelle insists, and he denounces Video Games in general

as evil. “By playing Asteroids I channelled all my sex
drive into the machine and then didn’t have any left”
Rozzelle said. James advises all beginners at the game
to be sure they have plenty of sex drive before playing.
“What with the ‘thrust’ button and all.”

4) Donkey Kong—The Video Warrior now leaves the
Student Cafeteria and moves into the Belk dorm. Amid
pubescent Freshmen stands the most popular Video
game in the world—Donkey Kong. The mysterious ti-
tle has seemingly nothing to do with the game itself, a
King-Kong type situation where one moves his italian-
looking character (named Mario, of course) up a series
of ladders to save a girl fromthe clutches of a mad ape.
However, it has been hypothesized that the “Kong”
part of the title game indicates the aforementioned ape
and the “Donkey” indicates anyone who plays this
game. Whether there is any truth to this is not known,
but it is a good game, filled with clever effects (particu-
larly a mind-boggling elevator sequence) and it’s
worth your quarter. Senior George’ Hatfield thinks
Donkey Kong is worth lots of quarters and plays it reli-
giously. He is quite good, and tells novices “the only
way to do well at Donkey Kong is to spend lots of mo-
ney—there’s no real strategy other than staying alive.”
Aside from the initial threat of the monkey, “Mario” is
also attacked by a constant barrage of barrels which he
can escape by either jumping over them or hitting them
with a hammer which unfortunately, has a short life. It
is the Video Warrior’s opinion that Donkey Kong is the
best game on campus, providing loads of action, sus-
pense, even romance, and all for a quarter.
Next week: A look at more games around the campus
plus inside coverage of some hot new video games like
Popeye. (That cult figure has done everything by now).

THE DAVIDSONIAN/7 January 1983

il
