4 Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian

By IDA PHILLIPS

The Rusk Scholars visiting David-
son are having no difficulties blending
into the college community.

The modest group, composed of
Zachary Dovey, Thomas Giles,
Rachel Johnson, Gigi Letts,
Rosamund Oddie, and Alistair Sum-
mers, explained that their selection as
scholars had little to do with academic
excellence. Enrolled at St. Paul’s in
London, the students were chosen
from thirty applicants on the basis of a
letter and an interview.

Members of the group cited vari-
ous reasons for entering the competi-
tion, Johnson’s being an interest in the
‘animal house image of American col-
leges.”

Besides envisioning a Hollywood-
created college, the students had an
image of the typical American. They
described the prototype as _ being
“loud,” “funny” “great fun,” and
“bloody good chap.” Giles imagined
these characters could be found “‘play-
ing basketball or hanging around Mac-
Donald’s with chewing gum in their

mouths.” But Oddie added that she had
yet to meet “any of those wonderful
people.”

Since Hardee's is the nearest fast
food joint, the students have not en-
countered many McDonald’s groupies
at Davidson. Instead, they have disco-
vered that Davidson students are ‘“‘ex-
tremely nice” and have eagerly wel-

i ie i

The Rusk Scholars Rosamund, Oddie, Zachary Dovey, Thomas
Giles, Alistar Summers, and Gigi Letts.

comed these six neophytes. Although
they have met a few “oddballs,” they
have concluded that on the most part
Davidson students are generic types.
“The students are very conventional.
Their behavior and the way they dress
is all similar,” said Oddie.

Always eager to broaden their cul-
tural horizons, Davidson students have

_ made great efforts to acquaint them-

Paul’s.
“people

selves with the six from St.
Giles found it amusing that

come up to you and say, ‘I love your
accent, will you please say some-
thing?’ And all you have to do is say
yall and they start screaming.”

Dovey found the Southern twang
equally fascinating, particularly when
being contorted into the French lan-
guage in class.

The group noted some striking dif-
ferences between American and
British students’ attitudes towards
their bodies and minds. They found

Rusk Scholars: Davidson Defies American Stereotype

Laura McGee

members of the Richard Simmons/
Jane Fonda era extremely fit. “It’s odd
to see so many girls on the track or jog-
ging around,” observed Oddie. “Girls
don’t do that much at home.”

Yet the students revealed that an
emphasis on the body can leave the
mind neglected. ““There’s very little
talk about life outside of Davidson.
People at home aren’t super-political
but there’s little discussion of politics
here,” observed Dovey. Oddie added,
“If students at Davidson talk about in-
tellectual things, it’s usually about
their courses, or the dating dilemma.”

Pronouncing the first syllable of
dilemma with a long “i” as in “die,” the
group seemed very intrigued by this
mysterious Davidson malady. They
noticed a distinct segregation between
the sexes at Davidson, which they at-
tributed to fraternities and all-women
eating houses. “There are not that
many cross friendships, particularly
among freshmen,” one observed.

They were particularly perplexed
by the fact that unisex establishments
often have parties solely with students
from other schools. They wondered if
this dilemma of defeated the purpose
of going to school together.

Each scholar is enrolled in two
courses, one of which they audit. This
relatively light course load grants the
students and abundance of time to
enjoy their American counterparts.
“We're Rusk Scholars so we expect to
be entertained,” joked Giles.

Town Zoning Rules Forbid WDAV Move

(continued from page |)

that WDAV’s problem is not unique. He
said there is a problem with lack of office
space all over campus.

There is the possibility that WDAV
may move into the space vacated by the
Student Store, if the College decides to
move the Student Store into the Post Of-
fice on Main Street when the Post Office
moves to its new location.

But Clark pointed out that competi-
tion for the Student Store space is rather
diverse. “Not only would the College
Union like to utilize that space for stu-
dent functions, but so would the Careers
Office, the Counseling services, and the
Alumni Offices — all of which presently
share space with WDAV — like to ex-

pand thei locations [into the Student
Store].” Clark would like to remove

WDAV from that competitive picture.
Is

Clark explained three goats for
WDAV. The first is to relocate. The sec-
ond is to improve its present 20,000 watt
broadcasting power. The third is to get
“an increased commitment from the col-
lege congruent with the station’s needs,”
Clark said.

“WDAV has been a fully profes-
sional program since 1978. Each year the
college has supplied the station with
space, electricity within the station, and
$30,000. But that is no longer enough.
Not only do we need more space but our

Laughlin Elected President

(continued from page |)

a new all-women’s eating house forming
next year.

Laughlin is personally interested in
students having more input in Trustee de-
cisions, H&ees the Trustees as the “crux -
of power” on campus and hinted that
there would be SGA proposals in the
coming year designed to better com-
municate student opinion to the Board.

Woo would like to make SGA a more
vital part of the student body on campus.
“People tend to overlook the value of
SGA as a working body because many of

their actions have no immediate effect,”
she said. She cited the security problem
which was brought to the attention of
physical ‘Plant Director Grover Meetze

_eabyedthe OC.4 as an example of organiza-

tion’s effectiveness.

The newly elected officers were
pleased by the strong turnout which they
Saw as an increased awareness and inter-
est in SGA by the student body. Laughlin
and Woo wished to express their strong
committment to reporting accurately the
views of the student body.

personel costs are around $90,000 a year
provides extra space for interviews and
other production tasks) — the only re-
quirement WDAV does not meet for
CPB funding. Clark estimates that
WDAV could have received $35,000 last
year from the CPB.

“Hopefully when we find out what
and where our future is to be, we can
make a request for the funds we qualify

for,” Clark said.

for our staff. It would be nice to tell our
subscribers that all donations go directly
for programming.”

Clark also pointed out that WDAV is
not qualified to receive government
funds channelled through the Corpora-
tion for Public Broadcasting. Because of
its already cramped quarters, WDAV has
no redundant studio room (a room which

Central America Protest

(continued from page |)

approached.
“It’s sad. This is supposed to be our polit-
ical process,” she said. “But it’s impor-
tant to keep talking in any way possible.”

The three went to Washington in a re-
nted car and stayed Monday night in a
friend’s house. On Tuesday they met
with members of regional state delega-
tions. There, they received a briefing on
the current status of the pertineng. aid
bills. The group also discussed the argu-
ments of proponents of military aid. A
professional lobbyist spoke on the best
way to approach and question con-
gressmen.

After a rally on the Capitol steps,
they began lobbying in earnest with a trip
to Helms’ office. There they talked with
an aid who, King said, “made no effort to

- met

pay any attention to us.”

The Davidson students then split off
from the North Carolina delagation and
with the representatives from
Florida. They tried to pinpoint the con-
gressmen’s positions, but, said Hol-
brook, “you can’t tell. They are wizards
at not telling what they think.”

King said that the trip benefitted
him by putting factual support behind a
moral decision. It “has affirmed my posi-
tion by letting me know more about the
situation,” he said.

Holbrook said she went because “I
stongly believe our policy in Central
America is wrong. There is real danger
for the U. S. as well as for the people of
Central America. So when this day came
up, I went to do what I could.”
