THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIIIl, Number 20

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 30, 1984

Laughlin Edges Gould In Presidential Race
Woo Defeats Gaither For V.P.

By BOYD BLACKBURN

In Tuesday’s SGA elections, John
Laughlin narrowly defeated Warren
Gould for president and Beadsie Woo
won over Jay Gaither for vice-president.

The SGA did not make the vote tally
public. Normally, the tally is not pub-
licly disclosed unless a candidate re-
quests it. No such request was made.
However, turnout was surprisingly
strong, with approximately 200 more
students voting than last year.

Laughlin was enthusiastic about the
coming year and the role of SGA. “I’m
really excited because we know it'll be
an important year. We hope that the stu-
dents will see their role in affairs on cam-
pus as more important than even before.”

He cited several reasons why he be-
lieves next year to be an important one.

He thinks the SGA can and will play
an important role in smoothing out the
transition between presidents. He said
the SGA’s Presidential Advisory Paper

“should give [President John W.]
Kuykendall a good foundation on what
student opinions on most issues are.”

Laughlin hopes that since Kuyken-
dall was himself president of SGA when
he attended Davidson, he would take the
SGA seriously and use it as a viable rep-
resentative of the student body.

During their campaigns both
Laughlin and Woo concluded that athle-
tics and race relations were two issues
that needed attention. “It seems that the
student body would like to see more
funds going to the minor sports,”
Laughlin said. He also felt the need for a
stronger football program and said the
SGA would be looking into ways of rais-
ing the necessary funds.

Woo voiced concern about the issue
of race relations at Davidson. “I honestly
see a problem here. I think the SGA and
the B.S.C. need to work with the
R.A.C.E. committee to find out what the
problems are and specifically what the

By DAN VOORHIS

Hundreds of peace activists, in-
cluding three students from Davidson,
descenced on the United States Con-
gress on Tuesday, March 20th, for a
National Day of Advocacy sponsored
by a large coalition of peace groups.
Senior Carl Rist and juniors Kerry
Holbrook and Stuart King partici-
pated, lobbying congressmen to recon-
sider their votes on U. S. military poli-
cies in Central America.

The three students, accompanied
by delegates from Florida, South
Carolina and North Carolina, first tried
to see U. S. Senator Jesse Helms (R-
NC). Helms refused an interview. The
students then talked to three con-
gressmen from Florida in an attempt to
change the congressmen’s positions on
military funding to the governments of
El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala,
and the contra guerrillas of Nicaragua.

Rist, Holbrook, and King pre-
sented an alternative to current policies
which included pulling out U. S.
troops and aid from the region,
negotiating a settlement in El Sal-
vador, and safeguarding any resulting
provisional government. They also ex-
pressed concern for the refugee prob-
lem that has resulted from the unrest.
Many refugees have become immig-
rants to the U. S.

Holbrook felt the congressmen re-
sponded sincerely to the group’s ques-
tions and proposals. She also thought

Davidson Students Join
Central America Protest

- Randy Stroud

¥ :

Stuart King and Kerry Holbrook

the group’s concern might have caused
one of the representatives to change his
stance.

“Every time you let a person in
Congress know your position, it’s a
success,” said Holbrook. “It’s impor-
tant that the Congress know that
people out there are concerned about
this issue.” She added that this is often
the only way members of Congress
know how their constituents feel.

King estimated that 1,000 people
attended a rally held before noon that
day. Holbrook said the crowd was. |

~ from all walks of life, “from a (2-year-

old kid to a 60-year-old lady. Gener-
ally it was middle classs”

But she added that she felt their
group was looked on with contempt by
some of the congressmen and a
number of the congressional aides they

(continued on page 4)

John Laughlin
minorities think ought to be done.”
Laughlin added, “the recruiting of
minorities for faculty and administration
positions as well as students is needed.”
He is ‘concerned with the high attrition
rate of black students at Davidson, espe-

Beadsie Woo
cially in the freshman class.

Both are interested in maintaining a
strong Patterson Court and feel the
troubles of the past few years have level-
led off. Woo mentioned the possibility of

(continued on page 4)

Town Zoning Rules
Forbid WDAV Move

By RAND HARTSELL

WDAV-FM, the College’s Classical
radio station, will have to reconsider its
plan to move out of the Student Union
because of the Town’s Zoning rules.
WDAYV remains plagued with problems
of inadequate space and, in station man-
ager John Clark’s estimation, a location
not conducive to good production.

Recent efforts to relocate the station
to Shelton House failed when WDAV
learned that the site was not zoned for
any use other than a single family dwell-
ing unit. The College purchased the
house after the owner died last year.
Clark said Shelton House looked like the
most appropriate place for relocation.

“Students had been living there, but
the college was willing to offer it to us.
So now we’re back to square one,” Clark
said.

Space and Atmosphere Problems
“The two problems with our present fa-
cility [space and atmosphere] could most
ideally be solved by constructing a new
structure,” said Clark. “We presently
have four full-time staff members and 30
part-time student employees. Anyone

~.» who has. gone *terths <todont <tsre has

seen us ‘bleeding’ into the hall. We often
have to work literally elbow to elbow,”
Clark said.

The other problem of atmosphere,
Clark said, is not as easy to ascertain as
the space problem. Nevertheless, he
said, it noticeably affects the staff's
morale. “The noise created within the

Union interferes with our production, not
to mention the water pipes from the
janitor’s closet directly above the pro-
duction booth.” A cartoon in the Char-
lotte Observeralluded to WDAV’s prob-
lem by portraying a commode with
music emanating from it.
Competition for Space
Jack Powers, Vice President for De-
velopment, said that the administration ts |
well aware of WDAV’s problems. “We
are looking into the needs for a change of
facilities. WDAYV is a topic of serious
consideration.” Powers said, however,
(continued on page 4)

