Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

ARTS & EN

ERTAINMENT

M&L ‘Forced’
To Cancel

Adventure

Last week’s column ended with the promise of “An
Adventure” for this week. I regret to report that the
anticipated adventure was in fact a great
disappointment. Heading west on I-40 simply failed to
produce the material necessary for the “I-40
Highlights” story I hoped to present.

In fact, | doubt I could find a less eventful eight-
hour drive heading west to Nashville through the
Smokies during early fall when the tree colors are
almost at their best.

I even stopped at three Stuckey’s in search of
Adventure and local color. Nothing. Maybe that’s why
they put the interstate where they did; it connects
places that contain even the tiniest hint of Adventure.

At any rate, I did establish once and for all my
personal code of travel, so I present here A Guide to
Easy and Pain-free Auto Travel (or, Eight Hours in I-
40 Hell).

Comfort Wear: Dress not for success when sitting
for long periods. Wear pajamas if you're driving by
night. Wear them in the day if they look sort of new
wave or Japanese influenced. _

The Food-Car Problem: Weigh the ramifications
of eating any food in your car. Fast food may seem
fast, but try purging that Quarter Pounder essence eight
hours after you Drive-Thru. Instead, eat self-contained
things like M & Ms and Sweet Tarts. I’ve never seen
them mess up auto upholstery.

Pimento cheese is a bad idea for auto dining.

Sanitized for Your Protection?: Crucial to
successful auto travel is the regular discovery of nice
restroom facilities. “Nice” includes amenities such as a
toilet (flushability is a plus), a sink (to wash off Sweet
Tart leftovers), and a door (the term “open road” does
not necessarily mean “open bathroom.” Modesty 1s
acceptable). A nevet-fail ratio helps me find these
facilities: the Roof Color Intensity/ Quality of
Bathroom Index. The louder the roof, the better the
bathroom. Stuckey’s (gleaming aqua), Howard
Johnson's (radiant orange), and Hot Stops (brilliant
red) all have loud roofs and good bathrooms.

Entertainment: Silence beats an AM radio, except
on Sunday mornings when church services are
broadcast. If you have only an AM radio and feel
compelled to listen to it, sing along. Loudly. If you're
alone and you do it long enough, you'll eventually
think you're a good singer with chances of becoming

very popular.

Love on 18 Wheels: Finally, if you're a female
traveler, don’t rule out the possibility of a little
romance while you roll away the hours. When those
truckers honk, wave back. Without even leaving your
auto, you’ve committed yourself to hours of
subsequent honks and constant fun. Whatever you do,
don’t stop waving once you've started. A tractor-trailer
rig weighs far more than most autos, and a trucker-
turned-surly knows that.

Accuracy Counts!

Are your parents coming for Parents’ Weekend”
Don’t know where to dine Saturday night? If you
consult the flyer produced this week by the Commons,
you'll find it recommends one restaurant with a special
touch, the House of Human in Cotswold Mall. Moo
Goo Guy Pan? Chicken Chow Man? Happy Family
Soup? What exactly does the head waiter do?

Hypatia and Mrs. Tarelton comfort Bently during one of his childish tantrums.

Peggy Pierotti

-

Misalliance Funny; Lacks Timing

y SA L SCOTT

The production of Misalliance, a comedy by English
playwright George Bernard Shaw, faces two particular
obstacles. First, the play must make you laugh. Shaw
uses humor to convey some very serious messages. If the
audience does not laugh, not only are they not enter-
tained, but they also miss out on the major points of the
play. Second, because the play itself is nothing more
than a long conversation, it must move quickly to keep
the audience interested.

The Davidson Theater department's production of
Misalliance clears the first obstacle easily, but has quite
a bit of difficulty with the second. The problem is tim-
ing; the play drags at times. During the performance, |
found myself ready for lines which simply did not come.
At times I wondered if the older characters in the play
were portraying senility or experiencing it.

Some brilliant comic performances highlight the
play, with sophomore Howie Moyes’ Bently being the
best. Bently stands nothing short of being the perfect
wimp, and Moyes portrays him as such. Despite his tan-
trums and childish behavior, we still see Bently’s human
side, and Moyes lets us know Bently does have a little
backbone.

Freshman Dan Michaelis, in his first major produc-

tion at Davidson, is simply psychotic (as well as funny)
as the harried gunman.

Senior John Marks, as Mr. Tarleton, is generally
good, but he sometimes fails to live up to his apparent
potential. Senior Valerie Hinton as Mrs. Tarleton over-
played the part, making her more of a comic casualty
than a loving, supportative mother-wife figure. Senior
Dan Lindsey is pleasant enough as Summerhays, but
does not play the character’s age convincingly. We are
left with the feeling that Summerhays is not really old,
but is instead a young man.

Senior John Syme makes a wonderfully pessimistic
Johnny; freshman Lance Luckey plays well as the
slightly upperbrow Joey, and Hypatia is nicely played by
sophomore Noél Brewster. Finally, junior Jennifer
Poole is calm and firm in her role as Lina, Shaw's
spokesperson in the play.

A very realistic set design by theater Professor
Joseph Gardner complements Misalliance, and theater
Professor Rupert Barber's direction held the play to-
gether well.

The play does have problems, but I did see the open-
ing night performance. | would recommend tt for some
of the individual performances alone, as well as tts po-
tential to improve with each performance

Fallon Writes Of Two Worlds

By ANNE LAMBERT

Peter Fallon brought the heart of Ireland with him to
Davidson when he read several of his works Wednesday
evening as part of the Visiting Poets Series sponsored by
the Union Literary Arts Committee. Fallon gave a 40-
minute reading from his books The Speaking Stones
(1978), Winter Work (1983), and poems from his new
book.

As he began his reading, Fallon speculated that from
what he understood, “the Davidson poetry reading series
ought to be called the Irish Poetry Reading series,” refer-
ring to Irish poets like John Montague and Paul Muldoon
who have read here recently. In a quiet, soothing voice,
Fallon spoke of the dual nature of his life as both a cos-
mopolitan artist and a farmer impassioned with a great
love for his homeland.

Fallon still lives on a farm in County Meath, Ireland
where he grew up. He said three times a week he makes a
50-mile trip into Dublin to Gallery Press, the publishing
house he founded in 1970 at the age of 19, where he edits
and publishes poems and plays by Irish authors.

Much of his poetry reflects the contrast between the
two worlds he inhabits. “We live too many lives, /” Fal-
lon writes in “Madeleine,” “There | am with my books /
in an old stone house, / editing, reading, talking on tours
/ of America, helping with ewes when I'm home, / turn-
ing my head from readers, reviews, / passing the
time... . / So many lives! | mean to say / I read the
Farmer's Journal and the TLS.”

Yet Fallon recognizes the necessity and validity of

living so many lives. “There's more to life than writing
books,” he said. “I have all these different dimensions to
my life, and rather than be torn by them. confused by
them, I want to try to incorporate them into one
another.”

Like Paul Muldoon, Fallon’s poems reflect a great
reverence for Ireland and her countryside. In “Home.”
which he dedicated to Muldoon, Fallon writes

The faraway hills are green but these

are greener. My brother roamed the world

and seemed to know everything. He boasted it

until Pburst, ‘Well you don't know John Joe Farrell.
the butcher's son, my friend. | balanced all beside

a field in County Meath, its crooked acres talling

In “The Heart of Ireland.” Fallon speaks of the uncer
tainty of the land, backtracking to recall “a famine car
ried on the wind.” Those who live on the land, Fallon
feels, are wary of their heritage and fear being betrayed
by their faith and their labor. In the heart of [reland. Ful
lon finds both beauty and anguish: “The center strains
to hold. A half-moon tilts between
apple trees.”

Fallon emphasized the necessity of the poet to “know
his place.” The new generation of Irish poets, he said.
inspired by poets like Patrick Kavanagh, are learning “to
trust the things that are close to them, to trust their per
To know your place, know all the

dead ash and old

sonal instinct
people in it, their legends, their possibilities.”

Rather than distance himself from what ts a more
personal reality by writing about great and monumental
events, Fallon writes about the fraternity of the pub or of
the village dance or of the tending of his sheep. “Poetry
doesn't have to be about things far away.” he said

As a poet. Fallon constantly and consistently incor-
porates what he writes into what he ts — the whole otf
Peter Fallon is greater than the sum of his many and var
ied parts.
