THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIII], Number 13

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 20, 1984

PAC Proposes New Faculty Evaluation Procedure

By DAVID RESNIK

The Professional Affairs Committee,
the faculty, the SGA, and the Adminis-
tration have reached a tentative agree-
ment on a new student faculty evaluation
form and new evaluations procedures.

Representatives from the SGA and
the new Administration met with the
PAC to discuss its new proposal on Mon-
day. PAC Chairman and religion profes-
sor Alexander McKelway hopes to have
the PAC’s proposal distributed to the fac-
ulty by this afternoon.

The faculty will have an open meet-
ing next week, and they will vote on the
proposal at their next meeting on Feb. 7.

The first section of the two-part form
asks students to write two short essays
evaluating positive and negative aspects
of the course and instruction. The second
section consists of fourteen short answer
questions pertaining to the course and in-
struction.

Instead of evaluating professors
every term, which the old procedures re-
quired, the new procedure would have
faculty members evaluated three times
(once every two years) before they re-
ceive tenure. After professors obtain ten-
ure they would be evaluated once every
four years.

By not evaluating professors every
term, McKelway explained, the new
procedure will help to reduce Vice-presi-
dent for Academic Affairs and Dean of
the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmermann’s

workload, although it will require more
work than a simple quantitive form.

“We need to have something practi-
cal but also meaningful,” McKelway
said.

If the faculty approves the proposal,
then a copy of the PAC’s report will be
attached to the Code of Faculty Evalua-
tion Procedures.

According to the proposal, student
agents will distribute the evaluation
forms and deliver the completed forms to
the office of the Dean of the Faculty dur-
ing the last week of each term. The Dean
will return the forms to the instructors
after grades have been turned in, and the
Dean will not examine the forms unless
they are submitted to the administration
for review.

Students accept responsibility for
their evaluations by srgning their evalua-
tion forms. Student names may be re-
vealed in accordance with Article 10 of
the College Constitution or under Court
subpoena.

Questions for the prose section were
based on the PAC’s original prose from
draft, and some are the short answer
questions were drawn from the SGA’s
proposed faculty evaluation form.

SGA President Hunter Monroe said
he was pleased with the new form. “I
don’t know if it’s the best form,” he said.
“but it’s one the PAC and Zimmermann
agree on.” Monroe added that the PAC
has been “very receptive to students” and
has acknowledged “the students’ desire

Faculty Research Group:
Informal Gatherings Offer Interdisciplinary Forum

By TED WILSON

Each month, a group of Davidson
professors informally gathers for snacks
and the presentation of a colleague’s arti-
cle or paper. The Faculty Research
Group, currently lead by history profes-
sor Peter Krentz and
classics professor Dirk
French, hears papers
on subjects ranging

NEWS
FOCUS

eyes . oo Jesse bee *
Hi AA a EN Maa ob Were d~

and Rosicrucianism”
Light Fantastically.”

According to Krentz, the group is
open to all faculty members interested in
presenting a paper on the results of their
research. Those professors who just want
to listen in are welcome as well.

Krentz said the group has two main
functions. He said it provides a forum in
which one “can present his results to an
audience of intelligent people in different
fields.” He added, “It also gives the fac-
ulty a chance to get to know each other
better, and in a different way. We learn
what people are excited about.”

Krentz said presentations are based
on “scholarly research” and are not sim-

“Tripping the

Dirk Frenc
ply general speeches. “Most of the pa-
pers that are presented and discussed are
eventually published in magazines.
However, some are less formal, as they
don’t have to be written out,” he said.
Professors discuss the paper after its
presentation. “Papers aren't heavily
criticized, though,” Krentz noted. “It’s
not a cut-down type thing. We're a sup-
portive [group of] interested faculty who

Peggy Pierotti

to have a new torm in place.”

The SGA’s faculty evaluation com-
mittee will meet again to discuss the new
form and procedure. Monroe said a Sen-
ate endorsement of the proposal “‘is not
necessary” since the issue has already
been resolved “diplomatically.”

The faculty discarded the old Illinois
Course Evaluation forms on Feb. 1,
1983. The faculty approved a_ prose
evaluation form to replace the ICES
form, but the Administration rejected the
form on the grounds that it would take
too much time to evaluate.

Resident Plans To Open
Bed-And-Breakfast Inn

By DAVID McGEE

A bed-and-break fast inn may be built
in downtown Davidson if resident
Thomas Clark can overcome zoning
problems. Clark hopes to locate the inn
on North Main Street property he re-
cently bought.

“We have the Guest House,” Clark
said, “but it does not have a restaurant,
and you can’t phone people who are stay-
ing there. When I was a student at David-
son, my parents had to stay in Moores-
ville when they came to visit.”

Although Clark’s venture is still in
the planning stage, he wants the inn to
have “as much Davidsoniana as possible
— old annuals, old Davidsonians, old
Davidsonian reporters,” he said.

Clark said he got the idea to build an
inn here after visiting campuses with
similar facilities. He has received many
suggestions on what the inn should be

want to encourage each other to do re-
search.”

“It’s rare that someone flat out disag-
rees with the speaker. [We sometimes]
ask clarification questions and some-
times there’s a suggestion that the guy
didn’t think of,” Krentz said. Professors
may also suggest ideas for additional re-
search.

Krentz finds “the group as an POT

yard One Porthe cGiewe® He Gad, fo bent ©

people think they can’t make [their re-
search] understood by the group” and
hence hesitate to join the group. “But, if
he can’t, how can he make it understood
by his students?”

He said the group is “a healthy thing
for everyone to have to give a talk to in-
telligent people who are not in the speak -
ers’ field.” Learning to present results ef-
fectively to the group, Krentz believes,
can help in teaching students. “We must
have the ability to get our point across to
others,” he said.

Krentz feels it is important for the
faculty to be involved in research and to

incorporate their research into their
(Continued on page 4)

like, and he will soon distribute a ques-
tionnaire to town residents.

“This won't be a success unless the
town supports it,” he said.

Clark has purchased property extend-
ing from the Davidson Landing office to
Parks-Rexall Drug Store on North Main
Street. However, the Davidson Town
Board passed a zoning ordinance at their
December meeting restricting various
types of businesses from the downtown
area including motels.

Clark asked the board at their January
meeting to make changes in their zoning
ruling so that he may carry out plans for
his inn.

“The town is interested in supporting
its downtown plan. The board will de
cide whether it [Clark's proposal] i
compatible with the town’s plan,
Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac:

(Continued on page +

Inside This Week

-Make My Day: Student officer
studies people. Page 3

-Workshop:student directors des-
cribe their craft. Commentaries on the
first productions, too. Page 6

‘Rebel: James Dean wins his strug-
gle for maturity. Page 7

*“Sci Fi: Up-and-coming Jack
Chalker to speak n next week. Page 8 8

-Hawgs?: Faculty and staff call the
Super Bowl. Page 10

‘Born: “Blue Collar Player” jams.
Page 11

‘Dizzy Disney: Is there justice?
Page 13

Friday the 13th had to get us in one
way or another. Last Friday's torren-
tial ice hurricane delayed delivery of
the paper until the following balmy
and icicle-free Saturday the 1|4th.
We're sorry about the inconvenience.

