Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

Massage Workshop Touches Students’ Sensibilities

By TED WILSON

“You're so relaxed, you feel like you’ ve taken a nap,
even though you’re awake,” said one student, after at-
tending Jason Thompson’s massage workshop.
Thompson, an Economics professor, instructs the one
hour class every Wednesday at 6:45 p.m. in the Union’s
Big Screen Room.

The workshop, open to all students and faculty, em-
phasizes touching in a very non-sexual way to become
relaxed. Thompson shows the participants how to relax
the neck, back, arms, feet and head. He says that the
body can be deprived if it isn’t touched frequently
enough. “The human body needs to be touched,” he em-
phasized.

Along with this need is the importance of the partner
‘listening to the person’s body and being sensitive to it,”
Thompson said.

The person giving the massage must find the tense
parts of the back, neck, and so on and try to relax them.

Thompson, a Davidson alumnus, said he “really got
interested in massaging when I went to California during
Spring Break. I met several people there who are really

into it.”

He noted that Californians “have a different attitude
about touching. It’s important to have this workshop to
break the ice” because many people feel inhibited about
the idea. “It’s important for people to touch in non-sex-
ual ways. On the East Coast, massaging is more as-
sociated with sex than on the West Coast.”

He said the workshop gives students an excuse to
“break the ice,” and to feel more comfortable about
touching.

The participants’ reaction to the workshop were con-
sistent. “Clearly, I enjoyed it,” one said. Another added,
“You have someone with their hands on you in a non-ag-
gressive way to help you and to make you feel good.”

Several participants said they felt “nervous and ap-
prehensive” about attending. “I was skeptical because
the word ‘massage’ has a negative connotation,” one
student commented. Said another, “I thought it would be
weird and too flower-childish,” but added it was “won-
derful.”” One participant “feels good because I’m doing
something good for someone else.”

“My favorite part is giving massages. It’s relaxing to
me because I’m relaxing someone else,” one student ob-

served. “We don’t get enough of this kind of thing,”
another student commented.

The main reason most participants attend the work-
shop is to feel relaxed. One added, “Our hall gives back-
rubs and it sounded neat.” “It was a spontaneous deci-
sion for me, and I was bored,” another student said. “I
want to learn how to get and give backrubs,” was another
response. Relieving test anxiety was another reason
sited for attending.

Though roughly a dozen people showed up at
Wednesday’s session, one student said, “the whole
school should come to this!”

Thompson said that often, a person’s body is
“screaming out,” wanting to be touched but the “‘inhibi-
tions are greater than the need they feel.”

To alleviate anxieties about massaging, he suggests
“coming to the workshop and trying it. Put your hands
on someone’s shoulders, squeeze them and see how it
feels.”

One participant asked, “How many other courses
can you take home with you, do with friends and enjoy
it? How many times do you do calculus with your friends
and enjoy it?”

Sense Of The Absurd Highlights Diva Sequel Nana

By ROSS HOLT

Why should anyone devote column space to review
what appears to be a pop thriller, a run-of-the-mill mys-
tery yarn, in fact, the second book in a series of mystery
yarns? Because the first in that series was a unique, off-
the-wall suspense masterpeice — which became a criti-
cally acclaimed film — called Diva. Now, Delacorta,
Diva's author, has penned the second book built upon
the same characters, Nana.

Diva's story concerned a young Parisian boy’s love
for a reknowned opera singer, and the danger in which
he finds himself when the confessions of a gangster’s
girlfriend get mixed in with his collection of bootleg
tapes. At the core of the story, however, stood Serge
Gorodish, a man of mysterious means, and his helpmate
Alba, a thirteen-year-old kleptomaniac. They provided

the catalyst, playing the yarn’s antagonists off against —

one another until justice — and not necessarily legal jus-
tice — had been served, and they themselves had lined
their pockets in the resulting bonanza.

Nana deals more directly with Gorodish and Alba,
and tells the story of how this odd match came about. As
the story opens, Gorodish has arrived in a small provin-
cial town — “12,300 inhabitants (9400 Catholic, 387
Protestant, 6149 leftists, 6151 rightists),” Delacorta tells
us — with a vague plan to bilk the entire town out of its
wealth.

Though Goredish is the novel’s hero, Delacorta (a
pen-name for David Odier, an acclaimed Swiss writer)
has created an ultimate anti-hero. Gorodish, after being
a concert pianist, became gangster’s chauffer, a photo-
grapher of young girls (very young and very artistic, as
Delacorta tactfully explains), and is currently an artist.
Ultra-cool and knowlegeable about everything from
classical music to knife-throwing, Gorodish never loses
his composure. _

The only kink (which is not an altogether inapprop-
riate word) is his armour occurs when Alba appears in
his life.

Alba is a very experienced, very bored young
woman who falls in love with Gorodish (as he falls in
love with her) from afar. She translates her boredom into
petty larceny, a trade she has manipulated into a fine art.

The two join forces and bring long buried tensions in
the town to the surface, with an eye entirely to their own
enrichment. They. maintain their anonymity, however,
so they stand in the eye of a storm, playing everyone off
against everyone else.

Delacorta’s genius, and what lifts his work above
that of standard suspense writers, is his staggering sense
of the absurd. What seem to be normal occurrances or
cliches of the genre suddenly become freakish, bizarre,
or off-the-wall bits of literary double-take. Delacorta
describes Gorodish’s photography hobby in the glow-
ing, complimentary terms of an art critic:

These were his greatest creation, the height of his artistic sensi-
bility, the most profound expression of his genius. His talent
for his special art had been recognized, and rewarded, by col-
lecters throughout the world. His creativity had grown, blos-
somed, and flourished. He had even published a deluxe edition
for his most devoted fans: it had sold out before publication.

ih A tgs
%

But then Delacorta suddenly adds,, ”

Then, one day, he had learned that there was a warrant out for
his arrest for contributing to the deliquency of a minor.

The effect of this is to keep the reader in suspense in
every way possible — anything can happen next, and the
most subtle of references may be the key to some impor-
tant event later on. At one point, Alba, dazed by a circus
magician’s feat of levitating her, slips back the bolt on
the lion cage. Only later in a brief allusion to a newspa-
per story do we learn that an escaped circus lion has torn
three people apart and devoured them.

Delacorta — as do his characters — always manages
to communicate feeling without being too explicit.
Gorodish and Alba feel a great deal of desire for each
other, but no consummation is ever even implied, des-
pite some fairly erotic (but relatively tame) scenes be-
tween them. In that way, Delacorta makes what would
be taboo:-— oddly and against the reader’s better judg-
ment — almost acceptable. Toward the end of the book.
he uses less than a half-page to depict a heinous act of
police brutality. His economical and ingenious use of
prose, however, turns what in any ordinary thriller
would have taken three pages of bloodletting into a brief.
terrifying ballet.

He is also economical in the depiction of characters
peripheral to Gorodish and Alba. His descriptions of
these characters seem at once sketchy, but he relies on
the assumption that we know them already. A police
comissioner, two hookers, various town officials,
motor-cycle gang members, mobsters, and others we

* have seen before; Delacorta merely adds in enough in-

formation and imagination to make them whole and to
distance them from the stereotypical.

He also pulls back when his plot verges on melod-
rama; he employs the absurd or he diffuses the situation
with that bain of commercial thriller writers — common
sense.

Nana is a delight; it is entertaining and intelligent,
and entirely off the wall. A parish priest and his church’s
women’s organization get their picnic goodies laced
with LSD — and discover later that the resulting Bac-
chanalian ritual has been captured on film. A biker and

‘his girl friend make love — on a speeding motorcycle.

And an assortment of corrupt rich people receive their
just desserts, compliments of Gorodish and Alba.
Nana stands head and shoulders above the product. of

oe “writers”’as Ludlum and MacClean:; it is a substan-

al thriller which relies on people, not guns and explo-
sions, to create its effects.
