6 Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian

A Look At Some Periodicals You May Have Missed

After dodging the pigeon effulgence now clouding
the library entrance (who imported those pigeons,
anyway?), I recently found myself in a new and, I
suspect, rarely exploited section of the library: current
periodicals. Holy cow! What a surprise was in store for
me.

The Library’s periodicals put the Union’s to
shame. For one thing, we recognize the titles of the
onion-ring-covered globs in the Union. Time. Life.
Consumer Reports (a personal favorite). People (the
one you're always apologizing for reading). These are
not difficult words. Enter the current periodicals
section, though, and you enter a parallel universe of
publications. Something alien is going on.

A few titles will explain what I mean. Monthly
Weather Review. Triathalon. Water Skier. World
Water Skiing. Spray’ s Water Ski. School Product
News. Herpetologica. Recent Herpetological
Literature. Herpetological Review (recent article:
“How to Get Blood from a Turtle”).

Then there are the strange titles: integrateducation,
for example. At first I thought this was like
conjugation. It’s not; they just left out some capitals
and spaces. It’s symbolic. Don’t forget QST Devoted
Entirely 1o Amateur Radio. Or Thrust, a magazine
from the Association of California School Administra-
tors.

Try finding Southeastern Librarian in the Union
(recent article: “Burnout: A Problem for Library
Managers”). Or Southeastern Geographer
(“Temperature Variability in Georgia in Recent

Buzz Aldrins Set Scoring Record

had na

ce

MORE OR LESS

By ; a 4
ANN MEADOR ,

Years”). Or Personnel Journal, “the magazine for
professionals who manage people.”

Whatever you do, don’t confuse Tar Heel
Libertarian with Tar Heel Libraries. Or Tar River
Poetry for that matter. All parties are probably
sensitive about their names.

The point is clear. If you want a quick trip to
Venus, go to the current periodicals section.

B. P.ing as P. E. Credit

Davidson's social whirl is just that; careful
planning can result in at least two receptions a week —
maybe a dinner if you join some committee. Being
aware of the endless benefits awaiting the shrewd
social climber, I tried my hand at a bit of B. P.
(Beautiful People, bien str) party hopping this week. I
left the experience a changed woman.

OK, so it was only the Artists Series reception after
Wednesday night’s performance. I thought it was
pretty shrewd of me to waste no time on the actual
performance and appear only afterward when the

Don’t Forget:

By TIM WAPLES

Once upon a time, professional foot-

ball was “fought in the trenches,” scores
were low, and the Chicago Bears were a
perennial powerhouse. However, in an
unnecessary effort to make the game
“more exciting”, rule changes were in-
corporated to make pro-football higher
scoring.

To an extent, these changes have be-
come associated with commissioner Pete
Rozelle, who has not become a favorite
of football traditionalists. From a glance
at last week's College Bow! matches,
one would guess that the Rozelle trend is
continuing in the College Union. Four of -
Monday's nine winning teams scored
well over 200 points, with the precious
First Yeast Belch squad racking up 355
and the Buzz Aldrins setting a single-

game inramural scoring record with an
astounding 460 points.

Craig Detweiler sparked Buzz's re-
cord performance with help from team-
mates Jeff McEwen, Joe Park, and Dan
Murrey. Unofficial sources suggest that
the secret behind Detweiler’s success is
his refusal to cat vegetables on game
days. Apparently, Craig has different
ideas about where to draw the line on per-
sonal competiveness. Whatever the
reason for their success, Buzz rolled over
a very subdued Controlled Substa nice
squad, setting themselves as the team to
beat in their division, the American
League East.

After a first-game stumble against

The Wrong Stuff, First Yeast Belch
blasted newcomers King Cobra and
rolled to a big win, primarily on the
shoulders of the Mark Chen-Keith Finch
duo. The two are eager to take on a role
as giantkillers. If they can get by See
Rock City this week, they can begin
looking down thge road to a big match
with Get Out of the Way.

With all these big scores posted, one
might think that the days of close, phys-
ical, College Bow! battles are over, But
just as the Bears are making a resurgence
in the NFL, those classic confrontations
still take place in the Union. Section
Eight, one of the preseason favorites and
backed by the largest cheering section on
the circuit, survived such a battle with
Stairway. to Heaven by a 160-135
count. A clutch tossup and bonus in the
last minute of the game iced the victory
for the Fiji’s in a game that tested even
veteran Marshall Johnston's nerves of
Steel.

An up-and-coming team of juniors
named Relentless Picnic stove off a late
chatge from the Thundering Amoebi to
win by a scant 55 points. The margin of
difference may well have been found in

the picnic basket of Peggy “Picnic”
Pierotti, who attributes her success to a
well-stocked supply of Ritz Crackers.

As always, the Union excitement,
close competition, and offbeat antics that
define College Bow! intramurals are
waiting for you as player or Spectator
every Monday night.

I-77 at Hwy 73

Cornelius/Lake

137 N. Main St.

Davidson
892-7815

Norman

892-7805

The Davidsonian Photography
Contest Deadline Is This Sunday.

Hawaiian Punch and chocolate chips were flowing.
Chic.

Not chic was the answer I gave Phil Meyer, a
member of The Acting Company, when he asked me
what I thought of the play with the three ladies with big
heads on. The chic would have said, “Play? What
play? Oh — this is a reception?” Try telling Phil you
are there for the food. “Very interesting,” was my re-
sponse.

After that things degenerated. Remark overheard:
“They were hardly even . . . human! They must have
had extraordinary make-up!” And, “Frat parties are my
life. I was president of Phi Eta Sigma.” It hit a nadir
when I heard, “Do you understand what the plays
mean?”

There must be a B. P. Quarterly somewhere. I
could sure use the help.

“But Judge Wapner. . .”

Now that this week’s session of “The People’s
Court” has adjourned, where is commentator Doug
Llewelyn? Are we to get commentary on this week’s
honor trial?

Outraged Fury and Indignation

A week has passed and still no answers. This
columnist will not rest until some answers spew forth
from the Communications Department about the
Directory cover. I look at Anderson Scott and Steve
Soud daily and still don’t know why they gaze out at
us, Chances are, they don’t know why either. What is
going on here?

Next week: An Adventure

BUFFET

—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

Tues., Wed.
& Thurs.
5 P.M.
til PLM.

241 SOUTH BROAD STREET_—MOORESVILLE ~ 663-3030
Meal Includes:

SPAGH ETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESON— ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items

FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES

DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES

WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE

PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANAD: ¢N BACON
ITAL 4. SAUSAGE ~ ,
CHCICt BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE

DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

ALL FOR

SPECIAL RATES
FOR CHILDREN UNDER 1225 PER YEAR

CHILI CON CARNE

89

PER
PERSON

$

Lunch Buffet— Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99
