14 Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor

Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

Race Relations

Race relations are a sensitive issue at Davidson. Everyone knows we .

havé problems, but no one wants to talk about them. Each year the same
issues emerge, and each year we rebury them. Some feel that a cloud of
ignorance surrounds race issues at Davidson.

But this Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room race relations will be ex-
posed in a full light, and the scene may not be pretty.

In an article this week Janet Stovall suggests that we need to do more
than just discuss these issues — we must act on them.

We also feel that the school needs to act. The following changes
would help improve race relations at Davidson: .

—more black professors
—more black administrators
—more minority students
—more involvement by blacks
in student organizations

Most people would agree with these goals. But there’s a big differ-
ence between holding an ideal and undertaking a course of action. In
order to act on these goals, we must decide how to implement them.

Before we act, we must deliberate. The more sincerely we deliber-
ate, the more effective our actions will be. This is why the upcoming
forum on race demands your full attention. It will help to dispel some of
the myths surrounding the race relations at Davidson, and it will provide
a convenient starting point for making our goals real.

One thing to remember: even if we accomplish these goals, racist
problems may still exist at Davidson, because racist attitudes are deeply
ingrained in some people. But even if we can’t change attitudes with ac-
tion, we still must try. The progress we make will be well worth it.

Go Co-ed

Last Sunday 267 freshmen self-selected into Patterson Court houses,
but more than 70 found themselves on a waiting list to join an all-
women’s eating house. Of 160 women in his year’s freshman class, 120
chose to eat at an all-women’s eating house. It is unclear whether these
numbers reflect a national trend toward fraternities and sororities or a
local phenomenon. One conclusion is apparent: women at Davidson are
less interested in co-ed dining. -

With the closing of ATO and ETC, only three co-ed eating houses re-
main at Davidson: Fannie and Mable, Emanon, and PAX. F & M is in
the most danger of any of these houses — they will have fewer than SO
members next year — but the other two co-ed houses should also take
heed of this trend. Even mighty PAX, which used to be the most popular
of all the houses, has had trouble drawing new rnembers.

It would be a shame to see Patterson Court polarize itself into all-
women’s eating houses and fraternities. Co-ed eating houses, like the
Honor Code, the laundry, and trimesters, are a unique part of Davidson.

We encourage those who are on an all-women’s house waiting list to
consider co-ed dining.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Roxanna Guilford, Rand
Hartsell. Bob Loper. Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer. John Ruppenthal. Tom Schilling, Julie
Sternal. Lisa Thomas. David Van Pelt. Elizabeth White. Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips. Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor. Miguel
Abreu. Craig Detweiler. Stephen Mank. Matt Morris, Tim Waples. Andrew Wilson

Sports Staff: Scott Huie. Assistant Sports Editor. Kerry Brown. Steve Byers. Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor. Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michael
Dent. Cary! Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee, Anderson
Scott, Mike Snell, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lisa Thomas. Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Chris-
tine Jackson 6

Circulation: David McCurry, Manager

- Letters

To the Editors:

Many people are sensitive about dis-
cussing race relationships. For some, in-
cluding us, discussing racial attitudes
means confronting feelings that do not
reflect popular opinions. In order to
openly and honestly discuss race rela-
tions here at DC we have to get past the
superficial in conversations. It definitely
means opening up and leaving ourselves
vulnerable.

What we need is not academic talk
about values or even spiritual talk about
how we could live together. Don’t we
know that we could live together? What
we need is personal, here and now.
Count to ten before we get angry.

One might wonder whether we do
need to discuss race relations here at DC.
The minority groups make up only a
small percentage of the student body. A
white student could go through school
having no contact or having minimal
contact with blacks and other members
of minorities. What's so bad about that?
Nothing, unless our “prejudices” about
members of other groups are never chal-
lenged.

All of us here have new beginnings:
You might say to yourself, “Today I will
play no more games, I will do my work
because I want to, and I will be friendly
with the people | see.” That is great.
Let’s have a new beginning together,
discuss it, and keep it alive.

I don’t mind being asked questions
about being black. I’ve been amused by
it, but I have also admired those who
have asked. I may gain the courage to
ask, “What is it like being white?” I may
ask another how she feels requesting a
white roommate on her housing card.

It wasn’t easy to write this letter.
These are our only conclusions: There is

a problem and we need to talk about it.

Some interested students will hold a dis-

cussion Feb. 14 at 7 p.m. in the 900
Room. Please come and please talk.

Harriett Gaston

James Pittard

Team Effort

To the Editors:

We wish to express our dismay over
the lackluster reporting of Hunter Gour-
ley in his article “Street Hockey, Old
Men, and Warner Hall.” As anyone who
is even remotely familiar with the game
will tell you, goals are important, but as-
sists win the game. This aspect, along
with defense, is our key to success.

In only mentioning (and barely, at
that) Tim “Gretz” McGaughey’s effort,
Gourley fails to recognize the rest of the
outstanding talent that has helped us out-

‘ score our opponents 26-1 in only two

games played. Kurt Henjes, a combina-
tion of Gordie Howe and Jerry Garcia,
heads up a defense that has only allowed
two shots on goal (in as many games).
Sedge Gray, the man with the Bobby Orr
spinaramas, playing .center and wing,
sets up most of the offensive plays. Bill
Hay, the Derek Sanderson of our league,
is an all-around rookie who helps out in
all aspects of our,deluge. Scott “Sparky”
Redding, with those first baseman’s in-
stincts, is a force to be reckoned within
goal (when baseball permits).

All in all, we wish to stress that we
are based on a total team effort — we will
stand for no prima donnas. We hope that
inthe future a responsible reporter will
recognize this and give credit where

_ credit is due.

Curtisi Northrup

Pete Astapchik

Co-captains

“The Contraceptive Sponges”
