Friday, February 10, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Faculty Approves New
Evaluation Procedure

By DAVID RESNIK

The faculty overwhelmingly ap-
proved the Professional Affairs Commit-
tee’s proposed student faculty evaluation
forms and procedures at their Tuesday
meeting.

The new forms and procedures will
be essentially the same as the PAC’s pro-
posal, except for a few changes in word-
ing and a provision that would allow for
variation in the frequency of evaluation.

Student agents will distribute the new
forms during the last week of classes.
PAC chairman and religion professor
Alexander McKelway is sending letters
to the faculty and the SGA explaining the
new forms and procedures.

McKelway thinks the new forms and
procedures are a “fair and reasonable
accomodation” and that they will give
the Dean of the Faculty information
which is better, more considered, and
more interpretable than the information
he obtained under the old system.

Vice-president for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zim-

mermann could use the forms to evaluate
professors this term, although he is not at
liberty to say which professors are up for
review.

Although the PAC’s work has finally
ended after a year of debate, McKelway
noted that the student faculty evaluations
system will always be under continuous
scrutiny.

“If negative elements show up, we
will find out about it very quickly,” he
said. McKelway also stressed that it is
often hard to forsee potential problems.

The PAC held an open meeting on its
faculty evaluation proposal a couple of
weeks ago. According to Mckelway, a
view was expressed preferring a numeri-
cal approach. It was discussed but never
explored.

The faculty discarded the old IIinois
Course Evaluation forms on Feb. 1,
1983. The faculty approved a_ prose
evaluation form to replace the ICES
form, but the Administration rejected the
form on the grounds that it would take
too much time to evaluate.

WDAV Asks Trustees
To Relocate Studio

By ALLISON WILLS

The WDAV Advisory Board has sub-
mitted a resolution to the College Trus-
tees recommending that the relocation of
the studio “be treated as a matter of ex-
treme urgency requiring immediate at-
tention.”

The resolution states that WDAV
“continues to operate out of facilities

. . which are totally inadequate and un-
suitable to such an extent that the small
and talented staff have to spend a great
deal of time . . . in coping with the diffi-
culties of limited space and . . . the ab-
sence of sound-proofing.”

‘There is no separate studio in which
interviews can be conducted, no recep-
tion area in which visitors can be
screened and telephone calls and mes-
sages handled without interruption of
programming and no adequate storage
space for an expanding library of records
and tapes.”

I agree that they ought to have more
space, and. . . I feel certain that we’ll
provide more space for them,” Interim
President Frontis Johnston said. “But we
don’t know where.”

The Advisory Board states in its re-
solution: “Although we . . . are aware
that the Trustees of Davidson College are
planning to remedy this situation, our
concern is the length of time that has
elapsed since the matter was first raised.”

One proposal called for the studio to
relocate to the Student Store’s present lo-
cation after the store finds new quarters,
but “the general consensus is that the sta-
tion should move out of the Union,”
WDAYV station manager John Clark said.
“We’d have more space, but it doesn’t
make sense, because the Union is a poor

environment for a broadcast operation.”

With the cooperation of the develop-
ment office, Clark has been looking at
options outside the Union. “Our most
promising possibility is Shelton House
which is next door to Park Place across
from Jackson Court,” Clark said. “It’s a
good candidate because it is not being
used for student housing.”

“There is a question of internal reno-
vation, but that will be a cost wherever
we go,” Clark explained. “The only
other problem might be a zoning problem
because the house is in a residential
area.”

The house is in good condition, but
the necessary sound-proofing will cost
around $20,000, which will be a separate
expense from the College’s annual con-
tribution to the station. Davidson has
contributed $50,000 annually for the last
five years toward the station’s $213,000
operating budget. The majority of its
funding comes from individual member-
ships and program underwriting.

Clark hopes that a decision will be
made soon because the “unfortunate con-
ditions . . . are affecting the morale of
the staff. They can’t do their best work,”
he said.

“But I don’t know where we are in the
decision-making process. Now I think
it’s up to Frontis Johnston and the Trus-
tees. Hopefully they’ll approve the resol-
ution at the February Trustee meeting,
and then we can pursue the possibilities ,”
Clark said. “But if the College waits any
longer to decide, we won’t have the sum-
mer to renovate, and we’ll be here
another year,” he said. “And it will be
difficult to keep staff morale up for
another year.”

Outgoing Union Board officials: Mark Tully, Charlie Lovett, and Suzonne Dic kev

Peggy Pierotti

New Union Board Officials
Seek By-Laws Changes

By RAND HARTSELL

Communication and involvement are
the watchwords of the newly elected
Union Board officials. When officers
Thomas Evans, Ross Hunter, and Ted
Garner take office during the upcoming
spring term, a proposed set of new Union
Board by-laws could aid them in their at-
tempts to communicate with and involve
the College community.

In order for the new by-laws to be im-
plemented, the student body must ap-
prove them in an SGA-sanctioned re-
ferendum to be held Tuesday. SGA Pres-
ident Hunter Monroe explained that the
by-laws need a simple majority approval
from the student voters; the SGA must
then amend its by-laws by a two-thirds
majority vote from the students to be held
simultaneously with the Union Board by-
laws referendum.

Outgoing Union President Charlie
Lovett explained that the Union Board
Policies Committee approved the pro-
posed by-laws changes before the Union
Board unanimously approved it. Should
the referendum pass (as Monroe expects
it will) the proposed change will then be
subjected to faculty review before the
Board of Trustees issues the ultimate de-
cision.

As for the Union’s goals, incoming
Union President Evans explained that he
wants the Union to “get a fair look. Ev-
eryone pays $45 [student activity fee]. I
don’t anyone to feel as though no one
ever heard them,” he commented con-
cerning the role of communication be-
tween the Union and students.

The proposed Union _ by-laws
changes offer the Union officials several
methods of improved communication
and increased student involvement.
Lovett is the driving force behind the
proposed by-laws. “Ninety percent of the
changes are related to wording,” Lovett
said. “‘When I read over the by-laws this
past summer, I noticed how outdated
they seemed.” Lovett explained that
much of his perception was based on the
€xistence of by-laws which were not ful-
filled.

In general, he said, much of what has
been eliminated has been eliminated in
an attempt to make the Union Board
more efficient in carrying out its duties.

For example, Lovett cites the elimi-
nation of voting positions on the Board
for all SGA-sanctioned organizations.
“When a number of these people fail to
show up (as often case had been in the

past), one could not et a required quorum
necessary for voting on Union propo-
sals.”

Lovett added, “The things we have
changed have enhanced those things
which we did not change.”

More significantly for Evans's plans
of increased communication and cam-
pus-wide involvement is the by-laws’
proposed provision of four new Union
Board positions. They include three at-
large positions and a publicity coordi-
nator. Social Vice-president Hunter
commented that three at-large positions
would enable students who have reserva-
tions about becoming involved with a
particular committee to get involved with
the actual decision making of the Union
Board.

A publicity coordinator would dele-
gate specific responsibility to a person
not only for publicizing Union events but
also for experimenting with different
methods of publicity. “We would like to
utilize video as a more integral part of
publicity campaigns,” Hunter said.

An aspect of campus events that both
Hunter and Co-curricular Vice-president
Garner intend to address is the spectrum
of appeal each event encompasses.
Garner, whose position differs from
Hunter’s in that he is responsible for eve-
nts of cultural and academic natures
(such as the Artists Series and invited
speakers), hopes to schedule events
which will have a broad appeal and not
alienate members of the College commu-
nity. “I want to avoid dividing the stu-
dents and avoid eliminating people from
participating in any event,” he said.

This attempt to draw the campus to-
gether can be seen in some of Evans's
tentative plans. ‘Five or six years ago,
there was a campus-wide dinner. I think
this could be very effective in drawing
the campus together,” he said.

He also intends to explore the possi-
bility of producing a campus video soap
opera to be shown every week. “Instead
of going around and asking people what
they want for Christmas, we could run a
15-minute video. The ‘Christmas’ video
was quite successful in its attempt to en-
tertain the campus, and I think something
such as a soap opera has an equally high
potential for success,” Evans said.

A summary of the proposed Union
by-laws is available at the Union desk
and will be available at polling places on
Tuesday. Also available from the SGA
are copies of their proposed changes.
