A Friday, March 23, 1984/The Davidsonian

they will present at the public hearing.
However, he added the situation “looks
pretty bleak if our defense doesn’t pan
out.” He said the fraternity had contacted
its national for legal advice.

Dean of Students Will Terry said the
College would probably adopt “the posi-
tion that we‘ve always taken” concerning
the off-campus fraternities. “The busi-
ness between the town and those two
houses is just that — their business,” he
said.

the international scene,” and possibly in
government. In this way, the Duke Pro-
fessor/Dean Rusk Director will be able to
coordinate programs relevant to current
international trends, and draw upon per-
sonal and professional resources to
strengtnen Davidson international offer-
ings.

International education has been a
principle focal point of discussion and
debate at Davidson this year. In the fall,
the Dean Rusk Endowment for Interna-
tional Studies was launched, with a pro-
jected goal of $10 million over an open-
ended time schedule. The Dean Rusk En-
dowment for International Studies is part
of the larger Davidson 1987 Program, a
comprehensive campaign to improve
substantially college endowment at all
levels by Davidson’s sesquicentennial
year.

Rusk’s opening remaarks in a De-
velopment Office promotional publica-
tion suggest that American students face
an unprecedented set of challenges for
human survival and world peace, for
which they are ill-prepared. “I am deeply
convinced that this generation of young
people now in our schools and colleges is
destined to write a unique chapter in the
history of the human race,” he writes. —

Undergraduate international educa-
tion is no longer a luxury, but a neces-
sity, according to Center for Special
Studies Director Louis Ortmayer.
Ortmayer believes that international edu-

FORGE

A great way of life

Zoning Ordinance

(continued from page 1)

Terry said the College would take the
positon of an interested party and would
be open to the eventuality of the frater-
nities returning to campus. If either or
both requested a house on the court, he
said he would follow the procedure he
used for the BSC and Warner Hall. He
added, however, that given the require-
ments of the fraternities’ nationals return
to the court did not seem likely.

Johnston termed what his fraternity
faced as ‘an ordeal.” Though the house

met and meets special use permit require-
ments, he said, the fraternity was una-
ware of the expiration of the 1976 grand-
father clause due to transitions in leader-
ship.

MacCormac emphasized that ‘the
sole issue being addrssed is whether
fraternities are compatible with residen-
tial use. Nobody’s making a statement
about the good or bad, or the purpose or
nature of fraternities.”

Terry echoed MacCormac’s senti-

Duke Endowment

(continued from page |)

cation is important for practical and pro-
fessional reasons. International events
will impact post-graduates’ lives in prac-
tically any field they choose. And if
Davidson did not pursue expansion of in-
ternational studies? “It would still be a
good, provincial, isolated sort of
school,” he said.

The Dean Rusk Endowment will play
the pivotal role in internationalizing the
Davidson curriculum and the student
body. A $10 million capital will generate
$500,000 annually to fund projects in
four basic areas: faculty enrichment, stu-
dent scholarship, community support,
and materials and technology improve-
ments. So far, with the addition of the
Duke Endowment grant, the Dean Rusk
Endowment has collected close to $1.5
million in donations, according to Pow-
ers.

Powers does not expect that the $10
million goal will be met by 1987. How-
ever, he hopes that the establishment of
the James B. Duke Professorship will
stimulate further giving by donors who
have hesitated to contribute to a program
still largely undefined.

Like most small colleges, Davidson
faces a decade or more of student body
decreases and cost increases. With this
gloomy outlook, it is tempting to wonder
if Davidson can afford the Dean Rusk
Endowment. Powers believes that the
long-term benefits outweigh questions of
affordability. “Industry is going to be

looking for people with some com-
prehension of what’s going on in the
world around us,” he said. Davidson's
unique program in international studies
will be an attractive feature for prospec-

ments. “I would not interpret this as if the
fraternities had been bad boys,” he said.
“But oil and water don’t mix.”

MacCormac said the fraternities had
generally been responsible, from the
town’s point of view, in dealing with any
complaints.

Johnston said no complaints had been
addressed directly to Fiji recently, and
MacCormac’s letter was the first word
the fraternity had heard of the Planning
Board’s action.

tive students. Said Powers, it will be des-
irable to go to Davidson College in 1985
because of the opportunities the Dean
Rusk Endowment will open, both at
Davidson and beyond

Computer Sales

(continued from page 1)

Director of Computer Services John
Casey expects that “most people will be
surprised by how many people will pur-
chase computers.” Although they sound
expensive, the benefits, once realized,
will make the price seem not so incredi-
ble. Owners can keep files and do pro-
cessing at home. Computers for work-re-
lated use also create tax savings.

Computer Services will offer short
workshops on Personal Computer con-
cepts to give people a taste of using the
machines. More extensive workshops,
led by Crenshaw, will be oriented toward
making a purchase.

According to Crenshaw, six recent

workshops have all been full. Fifteen
computers have already been sold and
many more positive comments made to-
ward purchases. The Center hopes to
“get a nucleus going” and build around it
an integrated, campus-wide network.
The agreement with IBM offers qual-
ity computers at good prices. The Com-
puter Center workshops give even non-
buyers the chance to learn about and use
the Personal Computer. The ultimate
success of the move depends on how far
and where the campus wants to take it.
For information on purchasing or
prices of the discounted IBM Personal
Computers, contact Computer Services.

Typesetting Positions Available at Good Pry.
Contact The Davidsonian at 892-2000
ext. 148 or 149

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN,
WE’LL PAY FOR IT.

If you're willing to invest your skills and
knowledge as an Air Force medical officer,
we'll invest in you and pay your way through
medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health
Professions Scholarship Program and it pays
for tuition, books, supplies, equipment and
lab fees plus a monthly income of more than
$550. See your Air Force recruiter for details.

TSGT BOB PAYNE

Order in advance—

Wine & Beer by the case:
Cost plus 10%

Keg beer:

Cost plus 10%

CALL COLLECT
919-755-4134

128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C

Trissy Lomax, owner

28036
892-7521

