2

Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian

Farrel To Step Down As Athletic Director

Davidson College, acting on a decision by the Board of Trustees, will divide
the positions of director of athletics and head football coach.

As aresult of the decision, announced yesterday by Interim President Frontis
Johnston, Ed Farrell will relinquish his responsibilities as director of athletics
and remain as head football coach. He will continue the dual role until a new ath-
letic director assumes the position.

Farrell has been head football coach at Davidson since 1974. He was ap-
pointed interim director of athletics in 1981 and was given the position on a full-
time basis in 1982.

Davidson will begin accepting applications immediately for a new director
of athletics and conduct interviews July | when President-elect John Kuykendall
arrives.

Two factors strongly influenced the Trustees’ decision to make the division.
With increased emphasis on building a new athletic and physical education facil-
ity the athletic director will be heavily involved in fundraising and planning.
Also, Farrell expressed to Johnston a desire to coach football rather than be di-
rector of athletics if the positions were separated.

“I have never considered not coaching football,” Farrell said. “I have always
been a football coach. When Davidson asked me to assume dual responsibilities
I was willing to do it but never with the intention that athletic administration was
the direction I wanted to go. From the very outset when I accepted the dual re-
sponsibilities it was made clear by Dr. (Sam) Spencer (former Davidson presi-
dent) to me that the two jobs were separate.

“In my one year as interim A.D. and the two years since then the department
has run smoothly, we have made good progress and I believe the new athletic di-
rector will come into a positive situation.”

S.A.D.D. Asks Court Houses For Funding

The Davidson Chapter of S.A.D.D. (Students Against Drunk Driving) pre-
sented a proposal to the Patterson Court Council regarding financial support for
the organization by the houses on the court. Under the proposal, each house (in-
cluding off-campus fraternities and the BSC) will be asked to contribute $100
yearly to finance the organization. -

Dean of Students Will Terry supports the idea and sees it as a way of getting
Patterson Court involved in the issue of preventing drunk driving. The Union
also supports the proposal and is tentitively prepared to contribute also.

While the PCC has no authority over houses’ budgets, the proposal was
made at the meeting “to inform the houses of our plans and let the presidents con-
sider it with their houses,” according to S.A.D.D. President Duncan Fraser.

S.A.D.D. was founded in 1981 bysRobert Anastas, a high school coach,
after an alcohol-related accident killed four students. Since then, the organiza-
tion has gained 3 million members across the country. Now the program is ex-
panding to colleges and universities. Davidson is one of the first colleges to gain
aS.A.D.D. charter. °

Alcohol-related accidents are the number one cause of death for college stu-
dents. Each year approximately 26,000 people die in drunk driving: accidents
and another 750,000 are injured or crippled. S:A.D.D. is not against drinking in
any way whatsoever, according to Fraser. In fact, it encourages a type of drink-

ing, responsible.drinking, he said.

S.A.D.D. has three goals: 1. To help eliminate the drunk driver and save
lives, 2. To conduct community alcohol awareness programs, and 3. To alert
and inform students about the “dangers of driving while drunk. S.A.D.D.’s slo-
gan is personal and direct: “Friends Don’t Let Friends Drive Drunk.”

The S.A.D.D. officers for the 1984-85 year are Gardiner Roddey (Presi-
dent), Edwin Douglas (Vice-President), Elizabeth Boone (Secretary), and Jane
Campbell (Treasurer).-Activities planned for next year include running adver-
tisements in The Davidsonian, placing public-service announcements on area
TV and radio stations, and holding an alcohol/S.A.D.D. Awareness Weeks in
October and April. As a part of the latter, Davidson S.A.D.D. hopes to host a
national speaker and an alcohol-awareness forum.

Finally, the organization hopes to make copies of the S.A.D.D. College
Contract available to all members of the student body. The Contract is a mod-
ified version of the contract used between high school students and their parents
concerning the issue of driving drunk: Under the Davidson ‘Contract, two
friends/house members agree that if they are ever in a situation where they or the
person who has driven them has had too much to drink, they will seek “safe,
sober transportation home.”

They also agree to provide or arrange for transportation for the other: and to
avoid driving if safe transportation cannot be found. :

President Fraser is “extremely pleased with the response S.A.D. D. has got-
ten.” In the organization’s first meeting 21 students attended: “Our aim is to save
the lives of our friends and fellow students,” Fraser said. “If one and only one
needless death is prevented, then I would consider our efforts worthwhile.”

NEWS SUMMARY.

Y-Corps Contributes To Senior Citizen Program

Beth Maczka, Coordinator and Treasurer for the 1983 CROP Walk, gave a
check for $1,547.50 to Melba Von Sprecken of the Mecklanburg County Senior
Citizen Nutrition Program on Town Day last Saturday. The check represented
25 percent of the funds raised in the Davidson Community CROP Walk.

In receiving the funds, Von Sprecken said that the county as a whole has a
waiting list of 2,000 persons who want to partipate but cannot due to funding
limits. Her program provides both a daily hot meal in Senior Centers and deli-
vered meals throught the Meals on Wheels program. The funds from the CROP
walk will assist the Meals Program in Davidson.

Maczka expressed gratitude for all the parts of the community and campus
that participated in the walk. 130 persons from 6 churches, community groups,
and the campus participated in the walk.

SAEs Donate $3,000 To Library Fund

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity recently presented the college with
$3,000 for the Sigma Alpha Epsilon endowed book fund in the library. With this
gift the fund now exceeds $7,500. The book fund was established several years
ago with the proceeds of the Campus Activities Calandar which the fraternity
sells each fall.

Tennis Courts Dedicated In Honor of Stowe

Davidson College yesterday dedicated its varsity tennis courts in honor of
Daniel J. Stowe, president of Stowe-Pharr Mills of McAdenville and a member
of the Davidson College Class of 1935.

The courts, which are now to be known as the Daniel J. Stowe Varsity Ten-
nis Courts, were built’ in 1965. An adjacent tennis house is named for Stowe’s
late brother, Robert Lee Stowe Jr., a 1924 alumnus.

A sign proclaiming the new name was unveiled by Mrs. Ursula Fogleman of
Davidson. Mrs. Fogleman is the widow of Harry Fogleman, who served as
Davidson Collee tennis coach for 11 years until his death in 1972.

The Stowe family has maintained a long interest in tennis at Davidson, and

Daniel J. Stowe is currently. assisting the college i in the construction of anindoor .
tennis facility. ;

Commencement Schedule

Davidson College will hold its traditional spring commencement exercises
at 10:15 a.m. May 27 on the front campus.

Some 340 students are expected to receive degrees during the ceremony,
which will feature performances by the Davidson College Concert Choir and
wind ensembles. Interim President Frontis Johnston will speak at the event.

The graduation ceremony will follow a series of related events set for May
26.

At 2:45 p.m. May 26 Davidson’s ROTC unit will conduct a cémmissioning
ceremony for graduating seniors. The events will be held in Hodson Hall of the
Fine Arts Center. The speaker will be Brigadier General France F. Jordan, a
member.of the Davidson College Class of 1956.

A baccalaureate service will be held at 6 p.m. May 26 in Davidson College
Presbyterian Church. .

Events during the evening on May 26 include the president’s supper for
graduating students and their guests, to be held at 7 p.m. at Vail Commons; an

' 8:15 performance by the Davidson College Concert Choir in Love Auditorium;

and the traditional open houses at 9:30 p.m. at selected faculty and staff homes.
Admission to the president’s supper is by ticket only. All other events are
open to the public without charge.

ROTC Blood Drive Off From Last Year

ROTC netted 189 pints of blood for the Red Cross during its blood drive last
month. “That’s kind of low,” said Andy Myers, one of several ROTC members
in charge of the drive. “We were a little disappointed.”

One reason Myers gave for the poor showing was that Pi Kappa Alpha frater-
nity held its own blood drive several weeks before the ROTC drive. Because

, blood can only be donated once every five or six weeks, Myers said, the ROTC
‘lost many prospective donors.

The blood drive was held in the Union April 25 and 26. According to Myers,
230 people offered to give blood, and 71 were refused due to high blood pres-
sure, iron deficiency, and various other medical reasons. Gift certificates from

‘Natural Resources, Davidson Dry Goods, and other local businesses were given

as door prizes to donors.

Community and Red Cross volunteers assisted in he blood drive, along with
ROTC cadets. Campus EMI’s performed medical duties which the cadets are
unauthorized to do.

