8 Friday, February 17, 1984/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Complete Four Game Road Trip

Wildcats Fall To ASU Mountaineers 61-59

By STEVE BYERS
and STEVE SOUD

Davidson missed a chance to begin
construction on a win streak that could
have primed them (and could yet prime
them) for the Southern Conference tour-
nament. The game ended in a 61-59 loss
to a spirited Appalachian State team last
night.

Appalachian raced to an early 16-9
lead on a fast break that seemed unstopp-
able. Shooting 64 percent from the field
in the first half, ASU held a 37-33
halftime lead despite a Davidson rally.
Davidson had kept the score close thanks
to Gerry Born’s 12 points (5 of 7 FG) and
Pepper Bego’s bombing (two 3-poin-
ters).

Although Davidson stifled the Moun-
taineer fast break in the second half, the
Apps negated Davidson's outside shoot-
ing. The Wildcats, battling through the
packed-in zone, were still able to get in-
side points from Born (23°points, game
high, career high) and Kenny Wilson (18
points, 10 rebounds).

Davidson rallied into the lead, 46-45,
with 11:15 remaining, but it was short-
lived. ASU took the lead for good at 52-
50 with 8:54. Their lead mounted to five,
but the Cats closed it to one with 4:33 re-
maining at 57-58. The Mountaineers
gave the home folks plenty of chances to
win the game by missing numerous free
throws.

With :07 remaining the score 59-61,
and Davidson possession on its baseline,
a three-pointer could have won it, a two-
pointer could have sent the game into
O.T. The Wildcats ran a fine inbounds
play and got the ball to KW, who took a
17-footer. It jangled around the rim, KW
followed the shot, and Born and Jim
McConkey went for the tap as well.
None could knock it in before the buzzer,
and a jubilant,Appalachian team cele-
brated victory.

The remainder of the five game series
follows in this order: tomorrow vs.
ETSU, Monday vs. UT-C, next Saturday
against league-leading Marshall (Kenny
Wilson and Tom Franz night), and the
Monday night of exams against Western
Carolina.

Gerrv Born jumps and twists as Kenny Wilson looks on with amazement.

Davidson finished an otherwise dis-
appointing four-game road trip with a
tough 47-44 win over VMI on Monday
night. This came on the heels of an 80-69
loss at Marshall Saturday night andteft
the Cats at 8-14 overall and 4-7 in the
Southern Conference. But the win at
VMI was a big finish to the road swing in
that it was Davidson’s second victory
over VMI and virtually assured the Cats
of a berth in the conference tournament.

Under new head coach Rick Huc-
kabay, Marshall has replaced UT-C as

the best team in the nine-member confer-
ence this year. And over 10,000 showed
up last Saturday to watch the Cats and the
Thundering Herd do battle. Huckabay
has implemented a trapping full-court
pressure defense at Marshall to go along
with its new freewheeling image. Its suc-
cess is built on opponents’ turnovers, and
Davidson obliged with 22 on Saturday.
As usual, Marshall’s LaVerne Evans
led all scorers with 23 points. The good
news for Wildcat fans is that sophomore
Pepper Bego completed his second

Lady Cats Have Four Games Left

By FRANK SCHWALBE

The Lady Cats continued their up-
and-down play as they squared off
against Belmont Abbey, Campbell, and
Warren Wilson. The Lady Cats are now
0-23 with four games remaining.

Saturday Davidson lost 92-37 to Bel-
mont Abbey, a talented team with
height, quickness, and an All-American.
The Cats started off the way they played
in Greensboro on Feb. 6: smooth and un-
intimidatable. In the end, however, Bel-
mont’s ability prevailed. Coach Patty

Daley went into the game hoping to score
40 and keep Belmont under 90.

In Monday’s game versus Campbell,
Davidson lost the intensity it had main-
tained for a week. Campbell shot excep-
tionally well, which rattled the Cats.
Davidson seemed tired and could not
concentrate. As Daley said, “We let a lot
of things such as questionable calls get in
the way.”

At Warren Wilson the Cats regained
some of the intensity which has charac-

terized the end of their season. After

We Stee ice Res ee ow eon

7
ig 7 ea Wee oka Be

playing a poor first half, Davidson dou-
bled their shooting percentage and re-
duced their turnovers in the second half.
Debby Adams and Amy Hartman led the
Davidson attack.

Next season Daley plans to play more
non-scholarship teams similar to David-
son. She also hopes to trim the hectic 27-
game schedule. Currently 80 percent of
the teams Davidson plays give basketball
scholarships. When playing teams which
have a program comparable to David-
son’s, the team has been competitive.

wn mw ae en ee ee vice ed ee»

Rocky Kmiecik

straight 22-point offensive outburst, fol-
lowed closely by senior Kenny Wilson’s
21. Wilson also claimed rebounding
honors in the game with eight. If the Cats
had a, bright spot it was their ability to
hang ‘tough with the class of the confer-
ence on their home floor and avoid an
embarrassing blowout.

Monday night at VMI was another
story. The Keydets are a very deliberate
team and are satisfied with a 40- or 50-
point game. Only 600 saw this one, and
with a minute left, it looked shaky for the
Cats as they trailed by three. Davidson
then proceeded to run off six straight
points, however, and stole the win from
VMI. Sophomore Gerry Born hit a cru-
cial layup and blocked VMI’s last-gasp
shot to preserve the victory.

Born finished with 10 points and a
team-high eight rebounds, while Bego
hit free throws at the end to give the Cats
some breathing room. But Wilson was
the hero. His three-point play with 35
seconds remaining gave the Cats their
first lead of the second half at 46-44.
Wilson, who played the full 40 minutes,
ended the game with 15 points, pacing all
scorers.

So Davidson finished the road trip |-
3, and with any luck at all at Boone,
could have been 2-2. Life goes on,
though, and the Cats end their regular
season with a five-game home stand,
which continues tomorrow night against
ETSU. The Cats need a few more confer-
ence victories to avoid facing Marshall or
UT-C in the tournament’s first round,
which probably means upsetting one of
these teams at Johnston Gym.

Bego and Wilson have been the most
consistent players of late, and Born,
sophomore Jim = McConkey, — and
freshman point guard Chris Heineman
need to elevate their games another notch
if the Cats are to have any success against
the conference heavyweights.

Bonus Free Extra
Prediction for All-Southern Conference
team: Quinton Lytle (Western Carolina),
LaVerne Evans (Marshall), Regan
Truesdale (Citadel), Willie White (UT-
C), and Kenny Wilson (Davidson).

Athlete Of The Week

This week’s Athlete of the Week is
Kenny Wilson, his third such recogni-
tion. Against Marshall he scored 21
points and grabbed eight rebounds.
‘Monday against VMI, Kenny led the
team with 15 points, including a three-
point play with 39 seconds left which
put the Wildcats in the lead by two. By
holding on to the margin Davidson
gained the important victory, almost
assuring them of a spot in the Southern
Conference’ Tournament.

Wilson also scored 18 points and |
pulled in 10 rebounds in Thursday’s
game against ASU.

