outa eee ae goa ge

*F

TRACTOR PULL: .4 con-.

neat immortal football trophy, from
the Concession Stand. See page 9. :

{

THE

: DAVIDSON IAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 3

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 28, 1984

Ambassador To Head Rusk Endowment Program

By DAVID McGEE

Davidson College last night named
Jack R. Perry, a career diplomat and
former ambassador to Bulgaria, to head
the College’s Dean Rusk Program in In-
ternational Studies. Perry’s appointment
was announced at a dinner in Atlanta.

The Trustees approved-the program
in May of 1983. Atlanta alumni held a
dinner last November to launch a fund-
raising campaign for the program, which
honors former U.S. Secretary of State
Dean Rusk, a 1931 Davidson graduate.
Since then, the college has raised $2.3
million toward the program’s $10 mil-

lion endowment goal.
Ambassador Jack Perry

The faculty International Education
Committee, chaired by economics Pro-
fessor Clark Ross, selected Perry from
nominations it received from alumni,
faculty, and friends of the College. Ac-
cording to the committee, “In searching
for the first director of the Dean Rusk
program, the College wanted an indi-
vidual with impeccable academic qual-
ifications, extensive international ex-
perience, and potential to aid in the fund-
raising effort for the Rusk Endowment.

“In Ambassador Jack Perry we have

found someone who combines all these
qualifications; we are indeed fortunate
that he is willing to accept this set of chal-
lenges.”

Perry will move to Davidson next
summer, but will begin plans for the pro-
gram and fund-praising events im-
mediately. ‘Davidson is a great school,
and I’m happy to be coming,” -were
Perry’s first thoughts about his appoint-
ment.

Perry, 54, will serve as coordinator
of Davidson’s International Education
program bringing speakers and visiting
professors to campus, conducting semi-

nars, teaching, and directing study-
abroad programs for students and facul-
ty. He is currently John C. West Profes-
sor of Government and _ International
Studies at The Citadel in Charleston,
S.C.

About his view of international edu-
cation, Perry said, “The first priority I
would give is that we are participants ina
democracy, and it seems to me for people
to vote intelligently an informed public
opinion [is necessary].

“If they don’t have sound views, they
will be left out of the discussion [of inter-

(continued on page 4)

Labban Bids
Farewell To
‘Teaching

By PEGGY PIEROTTI
After a téarful farewell dinner in
Mario’s Restaurant in Florence, Italy,
classics Professor George Labban dis-
missed his final class last spring after
32 years of teaching at Davidson.

Labban came to Davidson in 1952
trom the University of Texas at Au-
stin. Having done all of his under-
graduate and graduate work at Texas,
he said he came to Davidson because
“T preferred a smaller, more intimate
academic environment. I wanted to do
my best work — Davidson has proved
to be the right place.”

Davidson had no Classics depart-
ment during Labban’s early years at In
Davidson. Greek and Latin were
taught on introductory levels by pro-
fessors who taught other subjects as
well. “It was an artifical separation,”

Labban said.

1957, however,
itiated a change. “Soon after I got here
and upon my recommendation, they
joined Latin and Greek into the Clas-
sics department. It was both a reflec-

Dr. George Labban and students Merry Be Haas, Mary Martha Bled-
soe, Cameron Marshall, and Debbie Tyson during last spring’s Clas-
sics Abroad seminar.

tion of the confidence thatthe adminis-
tration had in me and a reorganization
of the administration and faculty that
the two areas should be joined as they

Labban_in-

are everywhere else.”

(continued on page 5)

Inn Plans
Run Afoul
Of Zoning

By DAVID VAN PELT

“If 1 do nothing, it’s finished. So I'm
trying to something to keep it alive,” reli-
gion Professor Tom Clark said of his
plans to build a bed-and-breakfast inn on
Main Street. Town zoning laws and de-
velopment plans have thwarted Clark's
project.

Clark purchased property last year
reaching from the Davidson Landing to
the middle of the courtyard beyond the
old Park's Rexall Drug Store on Main
Street. His property extends back to
Jackson Street.

Clark said he purchased the property
when Town zoning ordinances permitted
the construction of an inn on Main Street,
though he knew a change was under con-
sideration by the Town board. The board
implemented the zoning change several
weeks after he purchased the property.
Clark said the board's positive reaction

(continued on page 4)

Anorexia, Bulimia Find Davidson Fertile Ground

By ALLISON WILLS

Eating disorders, specifically anorexia nervosa and
bulimia, are a “real problem” at Davidson according to
assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross. But what are these
disorders? And why are women students here so suscep-
tible to this self-imposed, life threatening behavior?
Though research is still ongoing,
A psychologists are beginning to define
eating disorders, find their causes,
and propose methods of treatment.

Ninety-five percent of anorexia
and bulimia victims are female. The
victims of anorexia preoccupy themselves with food and
have an obsession with staying thin. Sometimes they
diet and exercise rigorously until they look emaciated,
but the anorectic insists: “I’m still too fat!”

Starvation frequently goes too far and causes death
(in an estimated five to 20 percent of known cases) by
circulatory failure, electrolyte imbalance, or hypother-
mia. Though statistics vary, one in 250 women between
12 and 18 becomes anorectic each year, and often these
women enter college with the disease.

Bulimia is 10 times as prevalent as anorexia, affect-

News
Analysis

ing 25 to 30 percent of college-aged women. Victims of
this food obsession engage in repeated overeating binges
followed by purges of forced vomiting, prolonged fast-
ing, or abuse of laxatives, enemas, and diuretics. Exces-
sive vomiting (the most common form of purging) is ex-
tremely dangerous and can cause death from cardiac ar-
rest, kidney failure, impaired metabolism, or severe de-
hydration.

Both disorders generally affect bright middle- to
upper-class young women who are obedient, successful,
and highly motivated. Thus, Davidson tends to attract
students highly susceptible to bulimia and anorexia.

“With our outstanding population, we'd expect to
have a problem,” Ross says. “The cases come through
my office because a concerned friend or hall counselor
doesn’t know what to do. We confront the student and
find professional counseling for her.

“Most bring the disorder to school with them as a
freshman, and sometimes it can be dealt with while
they're in school — but therapy is sometimes too [time]
consuming and several have had to leave and come
back.”

Though excessive weight loss can point to anorexia.

its victims often deny they have a problem and refuse to
get help. Friends become angry and frustrated because
an intelligent, successful woman they care about is
slowly killing herself, and she will not admit it.

“Food is the one area where the woman has absolute
control over her life, and asking her to give that up is too
much,” Ross said. “The anorectic who is usually other-
wise trustworthy, becomes manipulative and deceptive
She lies about food — and what she's eaten — and she
can't help it.”

Understandably this deceptive behavior causes prob-
lems among peers. One hall counselor who had three
women on her hall suffering from severe anorexia last
year said that friends usually do not know how to deal
with the problem. The behavior does not make sense to
them.

“The anorectic rebels against her friends who con
front her and try to intervene on her control. and she al-
lies herself with understanding friends or those who ig-
nore the problems,” the hall counselor said

“In the later stages friends become angry because
even once the therapy has begun, it’s a long-term thing.

(continued on page 5)
