Friday, April 13, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Students Participate In Charlotte Health Project

By ALLISON WILLS

A group of Davidson students — in-
cluding a fraternity pledge-class — will
receive $50 each for participating in an
experiment which tests the safety and ef-
fectiveness of a new vaccine. Each stu-
dent will be inoculatd with a form of
hemophilus influenza b, a bacterium
known to cause bacterial meningitis and
other diseases mostly in infants and
young children.

Dr. James Parke, Associate Chair-
man of Pediatrics at Charlotte Memorial
Hospital and experiment supervisor, has
worked on this project for 13 years. “It is
a medical urgency to try to prevent this
bacterium, especially in infants and chil-
dren, because it has been estimated that
between 12,000 and 13,000 cases occur
every year in this country,” Parke said.
“Thirty to 40 percent of these cases in-
volve significant complications, such as
mental retardation and deafness. There is
also approximately a 1-10 percent mor-
tality rate,” he added.

Each participant in the study was re-
quired to sign an agreement which
explicitly outlined their responsibilities.
For $50 the. students are injected twice

with the vaccine, and have been in-
structed to take their temperature at regu-
lar intervals following each innocula-
tion. Students are free to discontinue the
study at any time, but the $50 will not be
granted until the participants have their
second blood sample taken in May. The
possible reactions include tenderness at
the site of the injection and a low grade
fever.

The agreement reads: “I understand
that there will be no compensation or free
medical care provided for any injury or
adverse reaction encountered during my
participation in this study. I understand
that I will receive $50 to cover my ex-
penses for my participation in_ this
study.”

The amount of interest shown at the
College amazed Parke. College physi-
cian Dr. William Williams endorsed the
project, and Dean of Students Will Terry
also granted his approval. The SGA pub-
licized the experiment, and in four days
the 90 students Parke needed had volun-
teered to receive their first vaccine.

“The volunteers were very respon-
sive, careful readers, and interested in
the project. In our four days at Davidson,
only two students brought up the money,

and that tells mc the students were more
interested in the value of the program
than the reimbursement.” Parke said he
considered not paying the volunteers, but
added that it is common practice to pay
adults for an experiment of this kind be-
cause their time is valuable.

He was not aware that the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon pledge-class used the pro-
gram as a fundraising project for their
house, “but I personally talked with all
the volunteers and made sure they
wanted to participate and were aware of
what was involved.”

Sophomore Jill Sypult reacted to the
injection with high temperature,
headaches and chills, but will continue
with the program because she said she
was warned fairly about the conse-
quences and because she believed it was
for a good cause. But another student
said he will discontiunue the experiment
because his fever was over 102 degrees,
and it lasted longer than he had been
warned.

Parke explained that the second in-
Jections to be administered April 24-30
will be modified according to reactions
from the first vaccine. “If we get reac-
tions which are worse than one could

reasonably be expected to experience,
we will have to change the next injec-
tion,” he said. “That is why it is impor-
tant that the participants send in their
reaction information so we can quickly
come to a conclusion about what kind of
modification to make.”

A form of this vaccine was success-

fully tested in Mecklenburg County on
18,000 adults and children in 1974-76,
but it was determined ineffective for chil-
dren younger than 2-4 years old. “Since
ghen we have tried to find one better
which will be effective for infants. This
new vaccine is the same H. influenza
polysaccharide [used in the Mecklenberg
test], but it is conjugated to tetanus to-
xoid,” Parke explained. “Infants respond
nicely to tetanous toxoid, and we hope
that the combination will change the
mechanism of how infants respond to the
polysaccharide.”

“All the components of this new vac-
cine are well-known, but since it is new,
we must take the usual approach to inves-
tigating,” Parke said. “First animals,
adults, children, and finally infants. So
far, all the research has gone according to
schedule. We're hoping that this is the
answer to all those years of research.”

Bluestone Advocates National Industrial Policy

By DAVID MCGEE

“The industries that built America are
in trouble,” Barry Bluestone, this year’s
Reynolds lecturer, said yesterday in a
panel discussion with three Davidson
professors.

“We had a period of time when we
thought we had licked the business
cycle,” Bluestone said.

However, the four recessions of the
1970's brought higher unemployment
and decay within America’s industrial
infrastructure, a phenominon Bluestone
calls deindustrialzation.

In the panel discussion yesterday and
in his speech last night, Bluestone, pro-
fessor of economics and director of the
Social Welfare Research Institution at
Boston College, outlined his reasons for
supporting a national industrial policy.

When conducting research for his re-

cent book The Deindustrialization of

America, he and his colleague Bennett
Harrison, found that between 1969 and
1976, American industry lost a total of
22.3 million jobs. Further investigation
by another institution revealed that
another 18 million jobs were lost be-
tween 1976 and 1982.

Before the 1969 recession, the
economy experienced 105 months of
continuous growth, Bluestone said. The
post World War II boom initiated this
phenomenal period of growth, but Amer-
ican industry lost their advantage due to
foreign competition beginning in 1970.

‘People have said government, man-
agement, and people, are at fault. None
of these reasons hold water,” Bluestone
said.

He attributed the economic problems
America faced in the 1970's and today to

several things.

First, private capital investment, he
said, is not optimal. “The market does a
fairly good job in allocating capital,”
Bluestone said. The problem, however,
lies in how long the market takes to ad-
just to changes in the economy, he said.

To Bluestone, “the market will give

Dr. Barry Bluestone argues for a national industrial policy.

wrong signals about time. Government
must work to change the timing of invest-
ment.”

As a result of industry moving to the
third world to take advantage of cheaper
labor to enhance its competitiveness, un-
employment increases in America. A na-
tional industrial policy could improve

Randy Stroud

employment here, while conducting an
“orderly” transmission of industry to the
third world, Bluestone said. Other poli-
cies could avoid a polarization of the
labor force between highly technical and
well paying jobs and low paying, unskil-
led employment.

Bluestone questioned the quality of
life in such a situation, even at full em-
ployment.

Other policies would include a na-
tional development bank, and a coordi-
nated trade policy.

Philosophy Professor Lance Stell
questioned the integrity of such a plan-
ning body, noting that the Federal Re-
serve has made misjudgements in the
past and that a national industrial policy
may magnify these mistakes.

Economics Professor Clark Ross
added that government policy now may
mitigate deindustrialization. Also, Ross
said, since government is susceptible to
special interests, an industrial policy
may become political. Planning is harder
to implement in an open economy, Ross
said, and is more effective in oligopolis-
tic industry.

Responding to criticisms of a na-
tional industrial policy, Bluestone
pointed out that planning may take place
on the state and local levels, he noted the
success of such planning in Rhode Is-
land.

The strongest exports the U.S. has,
Bluestone said, are already influenced by
government support: mainly agricultural
commodities.

“Any industrial policy.” Bluestone
said, “must be modest (not central). flex-
ible (not rigid), and experimental (not a
political football).”
