Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian

7

SPORTS

Dawson Quits Team

Wilson-Led Wildcats Edge VMI 62-55

By STEVE BYERS

Whatever happened to the good ol
days when a game against VMI was a
sure win? Well, Davidson did beat VMI
62-55 Saturday afternoon at Johnston
Gym, but it was no sure thing. In fact,
had VMI made a free throw at the end,
the game easily could have gone to over-
time. The Wildcats improved to 7-11
overall and 3-4 in the Southern Confer-
ence with the victory.

Coach Bobby Hussey was forced to
shuffle his lineup again, this time be-
cause of freshman Caryl Dawson’s deci-
sion to transfer. The Cats are now down
to Il players, and the loss of Dawson
puts added pressure on freshman Chris
Heineman at the point guard position.
Senior Tom Franz will probably back up
Heineman, because sophomore Pepper
Bego seems to be at home at the “two”
guard position. Put in simpler terms, the
back court seems to be settled.

The front court, with senior Kenny
Wilson and sophomores Gerry Born and
Jim McConkey, is definitely set and has
been since Born and McConkey began to
assert themselves. Hussey may’continue
to reward certain players for good prac-

Rocky Kmiecik

Number 31 Chris Heineman

tices with occasional starts, but look for
Heineman, Bego, Born, McConkey and
Wilson to be in there with the game on
the line. The VMI game was no excep-
tion.

Wilson, as usual, led the Cats with 17
points, while McConkey dominated the
boards with 13 rebounds. The last eight
minutes of the game found the Cats in an
unusual position — trying to maintain
their lead and hold off the Keydets.
Davidson by now must seem more com-
fortable with coming from behind, and

this game proved that as the Cats made

no field goals in the last eight minutes
while VMI refused to fold. Not until
Bego hit a pair of free throws with no
time left could the fans breathe a little
easier.

Though the game lacked spectacular
plays and exciting full-court basketball,
it showed that Born and McConkey are
two up-and-coming players in the South-
ern Conference. They controlled the in-
side for the Cats the entire game and hit
jumpers (from 10-15 feet) with consis-

tency. And speaking of shooting, Heine-
man and Bego, with 10 and 12 points re-
spectively, are beginning to exhibit their

offensive potential.

All of this could not come at a better

time, because the Cats begin a four-game
road swing tomorrow night at Appalac-
hian State which will show just how
much character their young team has.
This new lineup must gel quickly, for the
toughest part of the schedule remains, in-
cluding games against Marshall, West-

ern Carolina and a rematch with UTC.

The Cats probably will not win the con-
ference, but at least they have a realistic
shot at finishing in the top three, consid-
ering the balance in the conference this

year.

Maybe these hard-fought wins and
losses of the last few weeks will prepare
the Cats for games down the road. Wil-
son said it best: “It’s not how you drive,
it’s how you arrive.” The VMI game saw
the unveiling of a new Wildcat mascot,
which could be a good omen. But the an-
nual alumni had John Gerdy *79 scoring
36 points, proving that some things never
change. If only Gerdy were still eligi-

ble... .

-—Women’s Basketball

By LOU HAMILTON

the women's basketball team) who
wrote this piece as a letter to the
editor. Due to space limitations in the
Letters column, we are printing it
here.

Davidson College has a winning
basketball team. The Davidson com-
munity does not seem to know it, and
the coverage in The Davidsonian cer-
tainly does not reflect it.

The other day an expert sports ob-
server (not a participant) commented
to me that winning 1s the ultimate pur-

“saue in sports. The,Davidson women’s
basketball team agrees.

Winning is setting goals and
“Achieving thém. That is true in life, in
studying, and in sports. In setting a
goal you stretch your capabilities by
shooting for something you have never
before attained. Once~set, the goal
takes on its true value through the ef-
fort you expend to achieve it. A team
puts out a very different kind of effort
because the members work together
toward an agreed goal and thereby not
only receive the special pleasures of
having a lot of fun and sharing many
rewarding experiences, but they also
create a unique and close relationship.

Le

Editors’ note: Hamilton is a member of

The realization of the goal (and even
the surpassing of it) is the culmination
of all that effort and hard work. The
victory.

Out of the 1,400 students at David-
son there are nine of us on the basket-
ball team. We have found a particular
value in setting goals together, work-
ing toward them, and finally achieving
them. When the nine of us are on the
court looking (up!) at the fifteen out of
some 10,000 from UNC-Charlotte, the
results on the scoreboard look one-
sided (their-sided to be exact). But to
us the results go far beyond the num-
bers on the wall.

At the beginning of the season we
set out to improve. One goal was to
consistently reduce our turnovers, In
an early game we committed 31° Last
week we kept it down to 13.

That's winning.

Here’s another example. Given
our physical size and the size of other
Division I, full scholarship, six-foot-
plus players, the absolute score is
nowhere near as important’ as the rela-
tive scare. In the first game we had no
defensive control over those trees to-
wering above us. We set a goal to keep
them under 100 points. And we have.
We've kept them under 90.

That’s winning.

We used to average 30 to 35 at-
tempted shots. We set a goal to attempt
more than 60 shots per game. And we
have.

That's winning.

Every game we have done some-
thing better than in the games before.
The coach said so.

That’s winning.

A group of supportive and energe-
tic guys come to our practices regu-
larly. They push us and help us to im-
prove. We have a strong and dedicated
group of fans who come to cheer and
support us at every home game.

That's winning.

Winning Is Setting Goals And Achieving Them

that we be her wonderful little ducks).
We have learned not only to love
our coach but to trust and respect her
for having the patience, the dedica-
tion, the guts, and the fortitude to stick
it out with us and for impressing upon
us the value of positive, unconditional
support which she herself represents.
We have all learned that it is indeed
possible to have (and yes, enjoy) two-
and-a-half hour practices (well, maybe
not the circuits) and to play three
games a week in a Division I league.
We have grown a lot (unfortu-
nately not in inches) from these experi-
ences. And the only way we are able to

And then we played the last few — s=.do this is that we support each other —

seconds of a game with only four
players on the court. Not giving up,
not panicking. . . ”

That's winning.

Yet in addition to all of these vic-
tories, there remains one outstanding
value that is more important than any-
thing else. We have each made nine
very special forever friends. In the pro-
cess of committing ourselves to work
together we have learned to laugh at
each other’s jokes (even Mary’s) and
to live with each other's idiosyncrasies
(ranging from Woody's chicken
cheese hold the onions to Debbie P.’s
relative good to Coach's insistence

continuously and unconditionally.
And that is winning. It really ts.
For the nine of us to take on UNCC
with a student body easily quadruple
the size of Davidson’s and Lord only
knows how many scholarship player/
giants; for the nine of us to play this
team ranking in the top 20 in the nation

in the Charlotte Coliseum; for each of

us to have fun and to trust that every-
one else is enjoying the challenge: for
the nine of us to strive together to meet
our agreed goals and to finally achieve
them...

That is winning.

