Friday, October 5, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

MiscellanyTo Seek —
More Student Input

By LISA THOMAS

The newest issue of The Davidson
Miscellany, the  college’s _ literary
magazine which publishes submissions
from across the United States, has just
been released.

The current issue is the only one pub-,
lished for the academic year 1983-84.
The double issue was released to elimi-
nate a long-standing gap between cover
and calendar date. Beginning with this
fall’s edition The Miscellany will once
again publish two editions per year
which will be released in the same term
that they are compiled.

German professor Julius Winkler,
faculty advisor and editor of The Miscel-
lany, said he compiled the current issue
himself because “the student editors dis-
appeared” and never accepted any of the
responsibilities.

Sophomore John David Ramsey was
appointed last spring as student editor of
The Miscellany, but he did not assume
his position until this fall. Ramsey said
he intends to establish a board of student
readers and to solicit student works for
publication. In the current issue, only
one entry was written by students cur-
rently enrolled at Davidson.

According to Winkler, in the past stu-
dents have been encouraged by profes-
sors to submit their contest writings to
Hobart Park, but “if we have two pieces
of equal merit, we will publish the stu-
dent’s piece.”

Winkler hopes that more students
will submit writings this year, but added
“we must keep our standards, and we can
give no guarantees that they will be
printed.”

The Miscellany has a unique feature
that Hobart Park does not have, accord-
ing to Winkler. Many colleges subscribe
to the magazine and keep it in their lib-
raries, providing more exposure for en-
tries. Hobart Park, however, is only dis-
tributed on campus.

The Miscellany was Davidson’s only
literary magazine until 1978 when stu-
dents established Hobart Park as an out-
let for student creative writing. Winkler
said originally, Hobart Park was estab-
lished to provide a forum for “more topi-
cal issues. They were going to publish
four or five issues per year on news
stock. But the second editor got ambiti-
ous.”

Copies of The Miscellany are avail-
able in the library.

Laughlin, Kuykendall
Discuss Advisory Papers

By GINGER BROADDUS

The SGA Presidental Advisory Pa-
pers “are as diverse as the people who
wrote them,” President John Kuykendall
said. Kuykendall met with SGA Presi-
dent John Laughlin last Monday to dis-
cuss the recently completed papers.

The purpose of the papers is to pro-
vide Kuykendall with background infor-
mation on campus issues which the SGA
considers most important. In their meet-
ing, according to Laughlin, the two dis-
cussed the document thoroughly, with
Laughlin “helping (Kuykendall) to un-
derstand [a] pretty clear, well written”
report. Laughlin hopes Kuykendall “will
use it as a reference when it comes to
making decisions.” The papers will
“give him a start on student opinion,” he

Campus Political Groups

By BO TAYLOE

Several campus political committees
have formed to support local, state, and
national party platforms and candidates.
Through Nov. 6, groups such as Hunt for
Senate and the College Republicans will
utilize leaflets, speakers, and open
forums to highlight issues and candi-
dates.

The groups have a common goal:
turning candidates into elected officials,
and they will try to achieve that end, say
group members, by informing students
of the issues. “We want to bring out and
introduce the principles and ideology of
the Republican party and familiarize stu-
dents with them,” College Republicans
Chairman Tony Holt said. According to
Holt, the College Republicans have be-
tween 45 and 50 members, making it
Davidson’s largest student-political
committee.

Head of the College Democrats Bill
Harmon said 30 students have joined his

said.

Kuykendall concurred: ‘‘They cer-
tainly can be a strategic piece of informa-
tion on things I need to know before . . .
I take action.” Laughlin considered it a
constructive meeting. ‘““We had a good
discussion about the issues he was inter-
ested in.”

Neither believed that any single cam-
pus issue has the greatest priority. “Each
issue is important,” Laughlin said. “The
information which will probably be most
useful for Dr. Kuykendall is that con-
cerning Patterson Court.”

Kuykendall said, “You need to know
how it [Patterson Court] works before we
can begin to improve it.” The race issue
also demands a great deal of attention,
they said.

organization. Underclassmen compose
the bulk of Holt’s group, while the oppo-
site is true of the College Democrats.

Party organizations support an entire
platform and allow members the freedom
to choose which candidates and issues to
support. The Libertarian Coalition, for
example, seeks to focus more attention
on the party’s platform than on a particu-
lar candidate.

The brain child of sophomore John
Endler, the group is in its infancy. Endler
said he wants to use the fall election as a
springboard to spark interest in the party.
He hopes to reach students through
weekly discussions examining the liber-
tarian perspective on various political is-
sues.

A non-partisan group called Election
’84 has organized to aid students in regis-
tering to vote and to promote awareness
of the election through discussions and
speakers.

In addition to these groups, several
students have devoted their support to

Dr. William Scott (above), a noted African and Afro-American histo-
rian spoke here last Monday and Tuesday. His two talks centered on
the apartheid nation of South Africa.

Classics Dept.

Reworked

After Departure, Retirement

By TED WILSON

The Classics department, with the
addition of two new professors, now of-
fers more opportunities for students, ac-
cording to Chairman Dirk French.

Professor George Labban, former
chairman of the Classics department, re-
tired last year, and Professor Mark
Davies left to teach at Milton Academy,
a prep-school near his boyhood home in
Massachusetts. Professors Marianthe
Colakis and Peter Corrigan joined the de-
partment this year.

Colakis said all three Classics profes-
sors will teach Greek and Latin (in trans-
lation and from the original language)
and the survey and the advanced classes.
“Professors aren’t locked into certain
courses,” she said.

French, who will continue to teach
Humanities, said the three new Classics
professors will join the Humanities staff,
but neither Colakis nor Corrigan will
teach a Humanities section this fall.

French said the department will con-
tinue to offer the Classics Abroad pro-
gram, but will not offer the program this
year. Students can study in Greece and
Italy through this program, which the de-
partment plans to offer in alternate years.
Each classics professor will rotate as
seminar leader.

French said the department now of-
fers a major in Classical Civilzation,

which is separate from the Greek and
Latin majors. “Last year was the first
year it was offered,” he said. In the past,
French said, some pre-law and pre-med
students had taken enough courses for a
Classical Civilization major, but it was
not offered.

The department has also added a
Sanskrit course, which will be offered
for the first time this spring.

Colakis said she is “interested in
doing something with comparative liter-
ature,” and more courses may be added
in the future. The course would center
around “the classical tradition in modern

Greek literature,” she said.

Senior Clare Eckert, a Greek major,
said the department's changes “don't af-
fect my major, as the requirements
haven't changed and majors tend to work
with the whole department.

“I think it’s great that someone can
teach modern Greek,” and certify stu-

dents in the language, she added.

Vice-President of Academic Affairs
and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmer-
man said the transition in the department
has gone “very smoothly as far as |
know. Dr. French and Dr. Labban had
worked on the transition last year.” He
said the enrollment in beginning Latin is
at an all-time high. “We had to make an
additional section to handle the load,” he
said.

Eye November Election

only one candidate. The Hunt for Senate
committee has between 25 and 30 mem-
bers, according to Chairman Liz Carlton.
Heading the group with junior Frank
Hobart, Carlton said “informinng stu-
dents what Jim is all about” is a primary
goal. Yesterday, Governor Jim Hunt's
wife visited Davidson. Today, members
of the committe are participating in a run
called the Student Spirit Relay, designed
to attract college students to the Hunt
campaign.

The College Republicans recently
polled 300 students. Holt said the results
show a balance between Democrats and
Republicans with the scale tipping
slightly toward the Republican side. One
of the purposes of the poll, Holt said, is
to identify and assist any favorable voter
who needs help registering.

The Republicans also publicized and
arranged transportation for the Bush rally
in Winston-Salem, N. C. last month and
plan to attend President Ronald Reagan’s
scheduled visit Monday in Charlotte.

“Broadening the sphere of influence,”
Holt said, is a goal underlying the
group's efforts.

Much of the College Democrats’
energy is spent outside the campus,
working with the Mecklenburg County
Democrats in Charlotte. Students make
“persuasion calls” for the Mondale cam-
paign or “response calls” seeking volun-
teers among Democratic voters. The club
campaigns~ primarily for congressional
candidate D. G. Martin, gubernatorial
candidate Rufus Edmisten, and Walter
Mondale. Harmon added that they are
still “waiting for the Mondale campaign
to get off the ground.”

The work of the College Democrats
will not end in November, Harmon said.
He has plans for “spreading out into other
areas ... solidifying and organizing.”
he said. Endler, too, said he does not see
the Nov. 6 election as the end to his coali-
tion, but rather the beginning. ‘The elec-
tion is an opportune time to start,” he
said.
