2

Friday, January 27, 1984/The Davidsonian

Columnist Niki Scott to Speak

Nationally syndicated newspaper columnist Niki Scott will speak at David-
son College January 30 at 12:30 p.m. and 8 p.m. She will participate in an infor-
mal discussion session during a salad-and-yogurt luncheon at the Black Student
Coalition House on campus.

At 8 p.m. she will speak on “You Can Be A Super Woman, But Do You
Want To Be?” in J. Spencer Love Auditorium. Admission will be free, and re-
ception will follow in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Author of “Working Woman,” a bi-weekly column that appears in more than
150 newspapers nationwide, Scott shares her own experiences with some 23
million working women.

She developed “Working Woman” while she was a reporter for The Char-
lotte News during 1972-1976. Scott also is the author of The Working Woman: A
Handbook and The Balancing Act: A Handbook for Working Mothers. She is
contributing editor for McCall’ s Working Mother magazine and radio commen-
tator for the Sunbelt Network in Dallas, Texas.

Her visit is sponsored by Davidson Women’s Concern Committee, a group
that seeks to promote awareness about women’s issues. Persons interested in at-
tending the $1 luncheon should contact the College Unign at 892-2000, ext.
140, for reservations.

Pianist Claude Frank to Perform

Internationally acclaimed pianist Claude Frank will perform at 8:15 p.m.
Jan. 31 in Love Auditorium. >

The program will include sonatas by Schubert and Beethoven, a fantasy by
Chopin, and a set of dances by Alberto Ginasters. .

‘The 1983-84 season marks Frank’s 25th anniversary as a performing artist.
Since his debut with Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic, Frank
has appeared repeatedly with the great orchestras of five continents. This season
alone he has booked more than 60 recitals, orchestral engagements and chamber
music performances in North and South America, Europe and Israel:

A.milestone in his career was RCA’s release of his performance of the 32
Beethoven sonatas, and his worldwide performances of the cycle. The series is
scheduled for re-release on cassette this season, by Pantheon Records.

Born in Germany, Frank studied at the Paris Conservatoire, and later came
to New York to study with Artur Schnabel. He studied composition and con-
ducting at Columbia and Tanglewood with Serge Koussevitzky, and now serves
on the faculty at Yale University and the Aspen Music Festival.

The performance is sponsored by the Davidson College Artists Series. Ad-
mission is free to season ticket holders, and $7 for others. Ticket information is
available by telephoning the Davidson College Union at 892-2000, ext. 140.

Nominees Being Taken for Sullivan Award

The Committee on Honorary Degrees will meet in April to select the persons
to be nominated to the Faculty for the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Awards. One
award is ordinarily made to a member of the student body and one award toa per-
son who is not a member of the student body. a

In 1926 the New York Southern Society established at Davidson and at sev-
eral other selected institutions an award to be made annually in memory of its
founder. Each year two medallions are presented, one to a member of the senior
class and the other to a person outside the student body. These awards recognize
fine spiritual qualities practically applied to daily living, and have usually gone
to persons who have given unselfish service without due recognition.

Suggestions for nominees with supporting data should be mailed to Profes-
sor Sam Maloney, or placed in his box on or before Monday, April 16.

—NEWS SUMMARY

UMOC To Visit Campus

Davidson students will get the chance to elect the Ugliest Mug on Campus
Feb. 6-10, an annual contest sponsored by service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega.
Proceeds will go toward fighting cystic fibrosis.

“We want some ugly and not-so-ugly people to come and help raise money,”
APO Secretary Sally Hughes said. Nominations will be taken next week at the
post office and Chambers, and voting (1¢ per vote) will occur Feb. 6-10 outside
the Chambers gallery.

Recent UMOC winners have included senior Scott Otto and Kevin Attar.

Eating houses and freshman halls are encouraged to nominate and vote for a

‘candidate in order to increase their chances of winning their choice of ice cream

or a keg.
Cystic fibrosis attacks one of 1,000 children, originating in the pancreas and

_ interfering with membrane secretions. Systems affected include the intestinal,

respiratory, and pulmonary systems, leading to intestinal blockage, lung dam-
age, and subsequent infection, and pulmonary failure.

Athletic Department To Hold Forum.

The Athletic department will present a “Forum on Athletics” at 7 p.m.
Thursday in the 900 room. A panel composed of Athletic Director and Football
Coach Ed Farrell, Basketball Coach Bobby-Hussey, Tennis Coach Jeff Frank,
and Women’s Sport’s Coach Carolyn Brown will answer questions from the au-
dience and give short presentations on the present standing of the teams and pro-
grams they direct. .

The forum will focus on improving faculty and student attitude toward athle-
tics at Davidson. Coach Frank said that through such discussions, the depart-
ment hopes to establish closer relations with students and faculty. He feels that

many opinions on athletics are based on rumor and need discussion and evalua-

tion. Frank will speak on Davidson’s membership in the Southern Conference
and the school’s sports perspective as well. He described the forum as an “all
questions answered event.”

Members of the panel will be available afterwards for any additional ques-
tions.

Explosions Rock Campus .

Two explosions occurred outside Belk dormitory shortly after midnight last
night. College police sergeant Harold Cook said the first explosion was so loud
that he “thought the boiler room had blown up.” He said the explosion was larger
than could have been made with a legal firecracker. Cook estimated that it was
the equivalent of several sticks of dynamite.

The explosives were large enough to prompt calls from town residents and
spread black paper over the quad. Cook said the pevple responsible would be
prosecuted if caught, noting that use of illegal firewords is a felony.

Celebrate Women Week

The Women’s Concerns Committee will host its second annual “Celebrate

_ Women Week” from January 29 - February 2.

Topics to be discussed range form women abroad to women and poverty.

This year’s women’s week will have a more “international focus to promote
awareness beyond the United States,” according to WCC Chairperson Beth
Findlay.

United Press International columnist Niki Scott will be the keynote speaker
for the week. Findlay described Scott as “someone who does everything and
loves it.”

The opening event of the week, “Alumni — Where They Are Now” is
geared to show people what Davidson College women are doing. Findlay hopes
that the event will help to statt building strong ties with alumnae. e

For a complete list of events refer to The Davidsoniancalendar.

NEW PERMANENT WAVE
HAIR DESIGNERS 1/2 OFF
STUDIO .
3 Cornelius $5.00 off
(ln coer of the Southern (Male & Female)
‘Temporarily Closed !

Order in advance—

Wine & Beer by the case:
Cost plus 10%
_—— | Keg beer: |
S|. Trissy Lomax, owner . .-- Cost plus10% |. °
4 [128 S. Main ‘St.-Davidson, NCO
* . Se 28036 - . att hy i an .
‘ ee ak cakeeeee

