Friday, January 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

In The Beginning. . . Sci-Fi Class Creates Planet

By JOHN GATHINGS

A group of Davidson students have launched an en-
deavor to expand the outer limits of the human mind, at-
tacking and distorting all pre-conceived notions about
life and the universe.

The industrious students of English 195, Science
Fiction, are currently “creating” a new planet, complete
with inhabitants, technology, culture, and geography all
its own.

The class decided to create a planet in response to the
requirement by Professor Nelson that the class find what
project coordinator David Sisk called “a good and mean-
ingful project.”

“It’s fascinating,” Sisk said. Senior Margaret Ervin
echoed Sisk’s affinity for the project. “It’s kind of in-
triguing. As a whole the class is pretty enthusiastic. Ev-
erybody works together,” she said.

Demanding work and tremendous responsibility,
however, accompany all the fun. “It’s really taking a lot
of time,” Sisk said. “We are devoting as much time as
we would to another class. It involves about 15-20 hours
a week.” :

“You have to push other people, but you have to
push yourself as well,” Ervin said.

The students are each put into one of several commit-
tees concentrating on different aspects of the planet.
Committees include geography/biology, science/tech-
nology, culture/religion, and art/graphics. The responsi-
bilities for creating life forms, an atmosphere, tools, lan-
guage, music, and the graphic conceptualization of these
are divided up according to the appropriate committee.

Ervin is co-chairman of the culture committee, re-
sponsible for the history/social science aspect. Creating
the history can be a very difficult task. “You have to deal
with the specific limitations and advantages of the crea-
tures,’ Ervin said. The culture committee’s work begins
once the design of the creature and the geographical en-
vironment is determined. The culture is a response to
these specifications.

Inhabitants

“The eyes are under the arm; the creature is very
nearsighted,” Ervin said. You have to think “what could
this creature do. It has sonar, that is really advantageous.

A being from the world of English 195

With this information, you can determine how they will
relate to art. It takes a lot of creativity.”

Overcoming the limitations of a unique form of life
limits the creator as well. Ervin said, “the language com-
mittee is having a lot of problems because the creature
has no lungs. They had to create a whole différentval-
phabet but then scrapped it when they ‘realized Mi
wouldn't work.” ~

Originating a history demands a special approach.
Ervin said, “You set up a group of problems to build on.
You then solve and make compensations for them. Right
now, the inhabitants are on the brink of aclass conflict.”

“It's got some really good academic influence.” Sisk
said. “A lot of people who didn’t know anything about
biology are having to look things up to create the inhabit-
ants. Everyone 1s forced tc learn about all parts of educa-
tion. It’s like a liberal arts education in a nutshell; a small
microcosm of the College.”

“It’s a different learning method,” Ervin said. “It de-
mands a lot more head work than just going to the library
and reading the information out of a book. I don’t regret
taking the class at all.”

“The more we do it, the more we like it,” Sisk said.
“It’s generating a lot of interest in the class.” Ervin, an
English major, took the class because she had never read
any science fiction. Her response to the genre is positive.
“All in all it’s a good class,” Ervin said.

The project makes one appreciate the author as well
as the fiction. “Now that we’ ve had to do it ourselves, we
can appreciate the many, many hours of work done be-
fore anything can be set down on paper,” Sisk said.
“You work with concepts and how they have to be
brought down to detail before they can be made believe-
able.” Ervin agrees, “It makes you realize the problems
of a science fiction writer.”

Although work will stop with the completion of the
actual creation, the project opens the way for future
work. Plans do not include a book, but Sisk said “there is
enough detail and complexity to write a book. The po-
tential is there and there are enough talented people in
the class to write it.”

With the deadline of the project coming in two
weeks, “‘there’s still a lot of stuff to be done,” Sisk said.
“We can't possibly do as much with it as we would like.
We should have detailed maps in 3 or 4 days, hopefully
in color.”

After the two weeks is up, the class will spend one
week practicing an exhibition of the project. “The pro-
ject will be presented, probably in the Union, ina series
of discussions and presentations,” according to Sisk.
Citing a possible schedule, Sisk said, “The first will be
geography and geology, next science and technology.
and then religion, language and music.” There will be
drawings and models as well, with the presentation
scheduled for the last week of winter term classes.

-—Food

What An Experience: What-A-Burger

walk.

By ANDREW WILSON

What a concept! What an adven-
ture! What a culinary delight! What-a-
burger! Lying like a slice of individu-
ally wrapped Americana at the heart of
scenic downtown Mooresville, “gate-
way to Lake Norman,” What-a-burger
No. I 1 is on the right side of the tracks
near the funeral home and right next to

Gourmet Andrew Wilson samples What-a-Burger’ s delicacies

rae

the Exxon station.

This reviewer’s idea of pure epicu-
rean hell, gentle readers, is a frightful
scenario: discovering one has a dead
car battery and a rumbling stomach
while parked in eating space number
13. But never fear, intrepid gas-
tronomers. To the left of Exxon’s “No
Loitering” sign is the reassuring re-
minder, “Mechanic on Duty.” Beyond

Peggy Pierotti

knowing I look forward to a whole
“half chicken or shrimp,” Mary —
What-a-burger’s manager and em-
ployee of “12 years and goin’ on 13”
— assures me that she always lets
stranded or overstuffed customers use
the phone to call for a tow job.

I ask her to name the best item on
the menu, and she replies proudly and
without hesitation, “My what-a-
burger!” What awoman! When I ques-
tion her whether the foot-long hot dog
really is, she seems a little surprised
that I would even doubt it: ‘Why sure,
though I never measured it.”

While Mary tells me about her hus-
band’s quarter-century of service to~
What-a-burger and how I really should
see this place on Friday night, | won-
der whether \-hut-a-burger ever fea-
tured waitresses on roller skates. | de-
cide not to question Mary on this no-
tion as I notice my waitress delivering
my order with a peristaltic, swaying

I confess that this reviewer cannot
say much about What-a-burger’s food,
although my chocolate shake was
superb (they forgot my french fries).
But | must boast that what What-a-
burger may lack in dining excellence it
more than compensates for in atmos-
phere. The four giggling young
women in the pickup truck adjacent to
me provided appropriate mood music.
John Cougar M.'s “Ain’t that Ameri-
ca.”

What-a-burger No. 11 was built in
1965. Like the long-gone Hattie’s,
No. I] may soon become a similar
legend. The Big-Pig Bar B-Q restau-
rant across the street threatens to do to
What-a-burger what malls did to
downtowns. This reviewer recom-
mends What-a-burger study breaks.

What-a-burger cocktai] parties, What.

a-whatever it takes to preserve this fine |.

dining institution.

