Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

AT&T Chairman Assesses Company Breakup

By LEE WHITE

“I think we set as reasonable a course
as we could,” AT&T Chairman
Charles Brown said. In a speech Monday
night on campus titled “Who Killed Ma
Bell, and Why?”, Brown discussed the
events leading to the breakup of the Bell
system and their results.

The government sued to dissolve the
Bell sytem monopoly in 1974, Brown
said. The company faces years of court
litigation, he said. Meanwhile, com-
petitors are making gains in the Bell Sys-
tem’s markets. Brown said the situation
was “doing nothing for the shareholders
or the public.”

Brown characterized as “inevitable”
a change in the existing situation. Brown
said the attitude in Washington, D.C. fa-
vored competition in the telecommunica-
tions system. In Brown’s opinion,
“Ideology had taken the place of good
judgment on the part of some people.”

Three groups, according to Brown,
had different ideas on how best to imple-
ment the divestment of the Bell System:

the FCC, the Justice Department, and
Congress. The Bell System decided that
the best alternative was the Justice De-
partment plan. Brown said the plan was
not perfect, but “at least it was coherent.”
By the agreement of Jan. 8, 1982, the
Bell System divested itself of its local
operating companies.

«Brown said some benefits arose in the
new AT&T from the breakup.
A T & T was able to preserve the link
between research and development and
manufacturing, he said. The decision
also released A T & T from some previ-
ous restrictions. He said A T & T can
now exploit its own technology. A main
concern of the Bell System management,
he said, was the strength of the local Bell
operating entities. He said they have
proved they can survive in the financial
and commercial markets.

However, A T & T and Sothern Bell
must deal with such regulations as one
requiring A T & T to pay twice as much
as long distance competitors of Southern
Bell. In spite of the difficulties, Brown

Charlie Brown

said both sides want to make the new sys-
tem work.

Brown claimed the benefits of what
he termed a “drastic solution” had failed
to materialize. He said government pro-

cedures have prevented consumers from

. Feceiving the breakup’s benefits. He

pointed to problems customers have ex-
Perjenced with repairs and installions.
Customers miss “one-stop shopping” for
phone service, according to Brown.

In reflecting on the way public policy
decisions involving business are made in
this country, Brown said, “We reach
conclusions in this country in strange
ways.” He called the idea that the re-
lationship between business and gover-
ment should be an antagonistic one
“harmful.” He criticized what he sees as
Judicial decisions with no basis in 20th-
century economic reality.

Asked about the future of the tele-
communications industry, Brown re-
plied that the industry was one which no
one could dominate. He described
A T & T’s market as extremely com-
petitive and worldwide.

“A T & T,” he said,“is not looking
back. It is a business involved in the lead-
ing edge of information management and
movement.”

Davidson Alumni, Professor Seek Election Nov.6

By DAVID McGEE

Three candidates who will appear on
local election ballots Nov. 6 have con-
nections with Davidson. David Grier (D.
G.) Martin ’62, a Democrat, is running
for the 9th District Congressional seat,
which represents Charlotte and Mecklen-
berg and surrounding counties. Jim Mar-
tin 57, who is not related to D. G., is the
Republican gubernatorial nominee in
North Carolina. Economics professor
Randy Kincaid has his sights set on a seat
on the Mecklenberg Board of County
Commissioners.

D. G. Martin

D.G. Martin is the son of David Grier
Martin, Sr., who was president of David-
son from 1958 to 1968. His mother,
Louise Martin, lives in Davidson. He
earned an honors degree in history at
Davidson, and graduated from Yale Law
School in 1968. Campaigning for the
first time for public office, D. G. Martin
announced his candidacy last Dec. 7
throughout the 9th District. He is seeking
the congressional seat made vacant when
Jim Martin, the present 9th District con-
gressman, decided to run for governor.

D. G. Martin has based his campaign
on asking “difficult questions.” He feels
that the four biggest problems facing the
country involve “the overwhelming
budget deficit, developing effective de-
fense policies, dealing with social issues
fairly and equitably, and building a
stronger educational system.”

He has proposed_a “pay as you go”
program to cut waste and inefficiency in
government departments.

Concerning the defense policy, he
has stated that he would “support any
reasonable steps to suspend or moderate
the nuclear arms race.”

“I believe in a strong defense,” he
said, “but too often we often we over-
spend on the wrong projects or in the
wrong places.”

He calls for a “partnership between
government and the people” as a means
of aiding “the poor, the elderly, the ill,
minorities, and the uneducated.”

D. G. Martin describes himself as a
problem-solver. He has worked as an at-
torney with a Charlotte firm for 15 years
and has handled client’s cases in
Washington, D. C. with various govern-
ment agencies, bureaus, and legislative
offices. He is married and has two chil-

dren.

D. G. Martin’s opponet is Republi-
can Alex McMillian.

Jim Martin

Jim Martin, a Republican, has served
as the 9th District Congressman since
1972, and is challenging Democrat
Rufus Edminsten in the state governor's
race. He completed his PHD. in chemis-
try at Princeton University and taught
chemistry here from 1968 until 1972. He
has served on the House of Representa-
tives Committee on Ways and Means and
the House Commitee on the Budget. He
is married and has three children.

On his decision to run for governor,
Jim Martin said he and his supporters
“decided the time was right for new
leadership in the state government.”

His goals as governor include impro-
ving education and the state’s economic
climate and reducing illegal drug traf-
ficking. He has devised a merit-pay plan
for teachers in the state’s school system.

To enhance the state’s economy, Jim
Martin has said he would initiate tax re-
lief to create new industry and jobs for
the state by removing the 3 percent sales
tax, on food and drugs, and begin a
“staged rernoval” of the taxes on busi-
ness inventories, and redtce intangible
taxes on savings and assets.

He would establish a public informa-
tion program on drugs for young people
and a drug inforcement agency. In addi-
tion, Jim Martin has promised to acceler-
ate the completion of Interstate 40 to the
Willmington, N. C. seaport and make

State government meetings open to the
public. “Public business must be con-
ducted in public.”

Randy Kincaid

Kincaid, a Democrat, has run for

public office before, including an unsuc-
cessful bid for the 9th District Congres-
sional seat in 1980. He has taught at
Davidson since 1967 and is presently a
part-time professor. He owns a plant nur-
sery in Davidson and has taught in the
MBA program at Queens College in
Charlotte. He served on the Davidson
town board from 1977 to 1983.

Among the issues facing Mecklen-
berg County this year, he said, are waste
disposal, supplements to the county
school system, and reorganization of the
county's social services.

Alumni Find A Different Davidson

Fellow-
ship, Overby found it hard to “just fit in”
as a team member at Davidson. In Ire-
land he saw the violence between Catho-
lics and Protestants. “There, people die
over the issues everyday. Here, the most
important issue all day may be deciding
how many copies to run of a certain
item.”

Overby pointed out the tremendous
advantage of working where good facili-
ties are available. “You realize how
much the College has to offer. The stu-
dents are too busy chasing grades to take
advantage of all the extra-curriculars.”
Overby said the free facilities at David-
son would cost a lot to use if he worked
somewhere else.

He also commented on the warmth of
the community here. He said, “After
you've been out in the real world, espe-
cially travelling alone, you realize how
close the community is. Students take it
for granted that they have close friends
who care about them. That’s one reason |
came back.”

Overby said the administration here
accepts him as an equal. But, adjusting to
new relationships was difficult for him
because, in some instances, the student-
faculty ties he had developed with certain

(continued from page |)

individuals were very established.

Although this aspect of his job
bothers him sometimes, Overby said he
was better off than outsiders who come to
work here.

“Having been a student at Davidson,
I have some direction. | know what the
school is about and what its goals are.”

The new technical coordinator of
Davidson's Audio Visual department,
Anderson Scott '84, elaborated mostly
on the difference in his relationship with
faculty. “Professors seem a lot more
human. When you're a student they
maintain a distance, whether they mean
to or not. A lot of professors are more
open,” he said.

Scott said as a student he did not
notice too much of the administration
and its internal workings. “I was never
conscious of politics in the school — the
power structures, who controls what,” he
said. “I had never met [ Vice-President of
Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty
T. C. Price] Zimmerman until this fall.”

On the social life of Davidson, Scott
said he was amazed at how much there is
going on here. He said, “I was bored at
first. Now I'm looking for stuff to do in
the evenings. There seems to be a lot of
social life.” Like Soud and Overby, Scott

said he thought the students were too
concerned with grades to appreciate Col-
lege events.

Scott commented on his dual situa-
tion of being somewhat of a student but
also a College worker. “It certainly ts
strange being in between. This is a good
job for a year but I don’t want to remain
here. It’s like I'm in limbo,” he said.
Scott felt odd about being thrust into all
of the administration functions. As he
put it, “Being a half-big brother (to a
freshman hall) is infinitely amusing.”
Last of all, Scott said, “I fall out of my
chair when people walk in here and call
me ‘Mr. Scott."”

For Elizabeth Smiley ‘84, the Union
operations manager, the realization that
the College is a business struck her most
She said, “When you work here, you see
the mechanics behind all that goes on
There are parts of Davidson, that, be-
lieve it or not, put the nine to five job be-
fore academics.”

Of the faculty. Smiley said. “Some
haven't treated me differently from when
I was a student. but in general I yet re-
spect that students don't. Its different
when Davidson is paying you to be here
than when you pay them to be here ”
