THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIll, Number 19

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 23, 1984

Town Zoning Proposal Threatens Fraternities

By ROSS HOLT

A proposed deletion from the Town
of Davidson’s zoning ordinances has
threatened the existence of the two off-
campus fraternities, Phi Gamma Delta
and Sigma Phi Epsilon.

After a group of North Main Street
Residents approached the town Planning
Board, the board voted unanimously to
reccomend to the Town Council deletion
of the section which allows fraternal or-
ganizaitons to operate in residential
areas.

In a letter to Fiji President Marshall
Johnston and SPE President Steve Mac-
Millan, town Mayor Nancy MacCormac
announced a public hearing on the issue
scheduled for April 10.

The proposed deletion would allow
fraternities and sororities to operate
houses only on College grounds.

According to MacCormac, the pro-.

posed change concerns “the perception
of the community that fraternity houses
may not be an appropriate use of activity
in a residential area.” She said the propo-
sal represented a “new awareness of an
ongoing problem brought by residents to

IBM Offers Discount On

the attention of the Planning Board.”

Board Chairman Annamarie Burts
said residents had cited specific con-
cerns. They included students cutting
across lawns, vehicles parked on the
street, noise, and parties both inside and
outside.

Johnston said he was aware of the
town’s concerns. He said, however, “I
just don’t think our disruptions are that
bad.”

Both fraternities currently operate
under residential zoning but have non-
conforming status. The town enacted the
residential zoning in 1976, but a grand-
father clause allowed them five years to
conform to the rule. After the period
ended in 1981, neither fraternity re-
sponded to letters warning them about
their status.

If the Town Council enacts the pro-
posal, the two fraternities would have a
period of grace to conform to the residen-
tial zoning or to vacate to another loca-
tion. MacCormac said the town would
allow “a reasonable period of time to
comply with the change.”

If the Council rejects the proposal,

Personal Computers

By TOM SCHILLING

IBM Corporation is offering David-
son faculty members and students a 30
percent discount on IBM Personal Com-
puters. In conjunction with the agree-
ment, the Computer Services Center will
begin a personal computing project de-
signed to train the campus community in
the use of the new systems.

IBM hopes to sell a large number of
personal computers here. Davidson

plans to extend the availability and infor-
mal use of the new systems.
According to the March 7 announce-

ment by the Computer Services Center,
“IBM has recognized Davidson as an
educational affiliate institution, one of
only a few in the nation.” This means that
it gives extensive support to microcom-
puters and their use in academics. As a
result, individuals can purchase their
own IBM Personal Computer complete
with word-processing software for just
under $3000.

he machines are so popular that deliv-
ery 1s Slow, but those who order within
the next few weeks may receive theirs
before the end of the school year.

The IBM Personal Computers will do
“the best job for the most people,” says
microcomputer speciaslist Carl Cren-
shaw. Their main advantage lies in their
anticipated long term success and use.
IBM claims to produce a Personal Com-
puter about every 15 seconds and still has
a shortage. Probably most software of
the future will be compatible with these
systems. Also the College. plans to stan-
dardize the campus system so that more
effective training can take place.

Secondly, the IBM Personal Com-
puters have “versatility.” They can be
connected to the Prime 750, computers
owned by the college and, according to
Crenshaw, can “upload” or “download”
much of the information there as well as
performing administrative functions
such as word processing. Though rela-
tively new in hardware ( the machines
themselves), IBM offers a wide selection
of software (computer instruction sets).

(continued on page 4)

the town would enforce the current law.
It requires a special use permit to retain
nonconforming status. The fraternities
“need to consider the fact that their future
may be in question if the ordinance is de-
leted or if it is enforced,” MacCormac
said.

“If they rezone it, and we can’t use it
as a fraternity, there is no use for our
house,” said Fiji president Marshall
Johnston. He said the consequences of
the proposal’s acceptance would be dire.
“If we lose that house, our national is set
up so that we can’t continue our charter

on campus.”

Since the town has zoning privileges
for a mile outside the town limits,
Johnston said the distance and the frater-
nity’s financial situation would probably
preclude moving to another house. The
Fiji's he said, are also faced with paying
off a mortgage on their building which
could not be easily rented or sold.

SPE president MacMillan declined
any comment on the matter.

According to Johnston, the Fiji's are
concentrating mainly on the denfense

(continued on page 4)

Anderson Scott reflects the spirit of Davidson's annual Hattie's Ni ght,

Rusk Endowment
Receives $1 Million

By ELIZABETH SMILEY

In 1983 the Duke Endowment cele-
brated its 60th birthday, but this year, the
Endowment is the one giving out pre-
sents. At an anniversary colloquium on
March 6, Duke Endowment Education
Committee Chairman Charles Myers
presented Davidson with a check for
$100,000. The gift was the first payment
of $1 million toward the Dean Rusk En-
dowment for International Studies. The
grant, to be paid in full over a maximum
ten-year period, is earmarked specific-
ally to endow a James B. Duke profes-
sorship in International Studies.
_ The grant crystallizes a project that
Davidson has nurtured “about a year and
a half” according to Vice President for
Development Jack Powers. Nine months
ago the Development Office submitted a
grant proposal for the professorship to
the Duke Endowment. The gift came at
an opportune time and fills a specific
need within the Dean Rusk Endowment
campaign.

The Duke Endowment emphasized,
however, that its grant in no way sets a

precedent for repeated special giving of
that magnitude, Powers said.

Establishment of a Professorship in
International Studies is possibly the most
important development in the Dean Rusk
campaign so far. Powers sees it as a posi-
tive step toward realizing Rusk Endow-
ment objectives and a key to solidifying
program and budgetary goals that have,
to this point, remained fairly broad.

The James B. Duke professor will
have multiple responsibilities as both an
administrator and an academic. As a fac-
ulty member, he or she will be expected
to teach courses in international studies.
As possible director of the Dean Rusk
Endowment, the Duke Professor will
outline and implement programs in inter-
national education funded by the Rusk
Endowment. In addition, the Duke Pro-
fessor may work with the Development
Office in fund-raising activities for the
Rusk Endowment.

Powers anticipates that the person
chosen to fill the new chair will have a
background with “actual experience in

(continued on page 4)
