12 Friday, September 21, 1984/The Davidsonian

Football Team Bows To Guilford Quakers

By SCOTT HUIE _,,— ee ww

It just might be a long season. =

Last Saturday had the makings of a

perfect opener: a “pushover” opponent,
probably the easiest on the schedule, cre-
ating the potential for a high-scoring
blowout to impress those uninitiated
freshmen and to get the home season off
on the right foot.

A blowout it was, 27-12, but the
Wildcats were the victims rather than the
perpetrators. The NAIA Guilford Quak-
ers, fromGreensboro, were the ones over
on the outdoor basketball court celebrat-
ing after the game.

“It was a big disappointment,” said
Coach Ed Farrell, “because we had great
expectations about winning this one. But
first, I must tip my hat to Guilford for
playing a great game. Second, we played
miserably. We spent too much time try-
ing to avoid making mistakes rather than
trying to make things happen.”

Making the big play. It was a matter
of they could and we could not — a
familiar story so far this season. On those
crucial third down conversions, David-
son succeeded on only two of 15 tries

while Guilford did so on seven of 15.

Adding further to the finger-pointing
was what offensive backfield Coach
Gerald Carr called “too many mental
breakdowns.” They came in the form of
illegal procedure penalties, special team
mistakes, and simply poor execution.

Lines clash in Saturday’s game

Down 17-0 in the second half,
Davidson began to fight off the deficit
with a pair of second half one-yard
touchdown passes. The first was a strike
from quarterback Jeff Haney to tight end
Scotty Brendle. The second found tail-
back David Turner in the end zone to cut
the scoré to 20-12 midway through the
fourth quarter.

But showing the poise unbeknownst
to most underdogs, Guilford responded
to the challenge and immediately quieted
the partisan crowd of 2100. On their first
play from scrimmage, the Quaker run-
ning back drew the defense to the mid-
dle, juked to the outside, and scampered
down the far sideline for a 70-yard

— From The Consession Stand

Who’s (Or What’s) Best?

By STEVE BYERS
Here is a list of awards and special
citations, along with assorted facts and
figures, which I have dutifully com-
piled :

touchdown. That put the game well-out
of reach. -

The Cats’ failure to move the ball
through the air was perhaps the day’s
biggest disappointment. Haney and
backup QB Steve Bradley combined for
only six completions in 18 passes for 55
yards. For the season, the Cats have which has defeated Davidson three times
completed only 31 per cent of their pas- in a row, including last year’s clash, 13-
ses in a new look Wing-T attack that is 6.
supposed to open up the passing game.

Revamping that strategy may be nec-
essary since the running back tandem of
Turner and Horace Manor has been bril-
liant. Turner rushed for 87 yards on 16
Carries and Manor 89 yards on 17 carries.

Defensively, credit goes to end Mar-

cus Allen and linebacker Micah Down-
ing who both recorded nine tackles.
With last Saturday’s loss, attendance
tomorrow may be bigger at Duke dorm’s
roof party than in the stands, but let’s
hope not. The opponent is Newberry, an
NAIA school out of South Carolina,

Said Farrell, “Against Newberry, we
need to rebound with a strong effort.”
And that is exactly what they will pro-
vide. The Indians have a strong defense,
but this one isn’t going to be a peach-pipe
powwow.

The Davidsonian presently has paid business
and typesetting positions available.

Player who should win the Heisman
Trophy: Doug Flutie; Player who
will: Bo Jackson.

Best baseball trade rumor: Jim Rice
going to the Braves next year or the
year after.

Did you know that some junior high
schools in Texas redshirt football
players in the seventh grade? Talk
about taking your football — seri-
ously...

Best defensive player in the NFL:

Call 892-2000 Ext. 148

Best example of hype and media
overkill: The 1984 Summer Olympics;
Honorable Mention: any Super Bowl.
Cockiest man on the face of the
earth, but with good reason to be:
Carl Lewis; Honorable Mention: John

CAREERS IN

Rockv Kmeicik

McEnroe.
Best athlete and funniest person at
the 1984 Olympics: Daley Thompson.
Biggest mismatch of the Olympics:
The U.S. Men’s and Women’s basket-
ball teams vs. anybody.
Beat fight of the summer: Hearns vs.
Duran? Not even close; without a
doubt, the Atlanta Braves vs. the San
Diego Padres.
A possible second career for San
Diego manager Dick Williams: Pro-
fessional wrestling, after this quote: “I
will meet Joe [Torre, Braves’ man-
ager] anytime, anywhere, if he wants
to settle this. Even in a back alley in
New York.”
Q: What will an 81-81 record get you
in Major League Baseball?
A: An AL West (The Mild, Mild West)
championship.
People who are finally getting their
day in the sun: Chicago Cubs season
ticket holders.
Trivia: Name the players. who have
played third base for the Braves this
season (if you know the answers, you
watched entirely too much TV this

Lawrence Taylor; Best offensive
player: Walter Payton (who does it
with no offensive line).
In the where-did-the-defense-go
dept.: The Washington Redskins have
given up 133 points in their last four
games (ask Joe Theismann.. .
oops, I forgot).
Trivia: Who won this year’s USFL
Championship game and what was the
score? (boy, you are a junkie).
In the who-is-kidding-whom dept.:
The USFL’s decision to play in the fall
in ’86.
Best nickname for an offensive line:
The Heisman Hunters (Tennessee).
Best newcomer to pro tennis: Austra-
lian Pat Cash; Same old song: Martina
defeats Chrissie (and everyone else,
for that matter).
Here’s hoping Franco Harris breaks
Jim Brown’s career rushing record be-
fore Payton. Why? To see 47-year-old
Brown come out of retirement and call
Franco a “‘sissie.”
Best news of the summer: Howard
Cosell has quit Monday Night Foot-
ball. -

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

Challenging opportunities are offered in the
following areas of business management:

e Finance

Contract Administration
Retail Merchandising

Food Service

Inventory Analysis and Purchasing
Transportation and Distribution
Fuel Planning and Analysis

Computer Systems
Operations Analysis

Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy
Supply Corps to learn how your degree in
accounting, economics, business administra-
tion, computer science, or engineering can
prepare you for an exciting business career.

Presentation:

October 2
Morrison Room

summer). Quotes of the week: 4:00 p.m.
Two major college coaches whose “Michael is just like me. Totally awe-
heads are on the proverbial block: _ . some " Interviews: October 3 i
: : ollege
Notre Dame's Gerry Faust and — Clemson noseguard William Perry gewmon
Florida’s Charley (“Coach Probation”) | on younger brother Michael.

Pell.

“It’s his style to give up homers.”

An Equal Opportunity Empioyer

