12 Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian

Soccer Loses To Duke, Wake In Close Contests

By BOYD BLACKBURN

Davidson soccer got a feel for the
task facing them this year as they lost to
Wake Forest 1-0 in their 6pening game
and fell to the Duke Blue Devils 2-0 in
Durham Wednesday night.

Although Davidson probably has
their best team ever, they also face their
toughest schedule ever with opponents
like Duke, ranked 2nd in the South (7th
in the country), and Wake, ranked 6th in
the South.

Depth And

By ANDY BARRON

For those of you who are unaware of
it, Davidson is quietly developing a top
level soccer program.

Last year the Cats were 12-5-3 and
finished second in the Southern Confer-
ence, despite a poor finish to what was
otherwise a stunning season. This year
Davidson enters the big time by adding
Clemson, N.C. State and Georgia State
to last year’s difficult schedule. The
question on everyone’s mind is “Can
Davidson handle the competition?”

“I’m optimistic about our chances,”
said senior co-captain Jim Wright. “We
play a lot of our tough games on the road,
which is obviously a disadvantage. Yet I
think we have a good chance to beat a re-
ally top team like Duke or Clemson. I’m
excited about the season.”

Wright and the other co-captain,
senior Dave Flowers, are the heart of the
defense that also includes sophomores

Chris Jones, Sean Moser and Richard
Link. Defense was Davidson’s strength
last year and needs to be so again for the
Cats to do well.

“The defense needs to play well and 1
think they will,” said coach Charlie
Slagle. “The fact that we have five solid

The game last Friday against Wake
was notable for several reasons. First,
the game was played in the football
stadium for a change. The old soccer
field is quickly turning into several in-
door tennis courts. The new soccer field,
built on top of IMAC fields 2 and 3, is
still growing grass.

Second, the opponent was a team
which last year had embarrassed David-
son with an 8—O crushing at just the time
Davidson was climbing into the Southern

defendérs gives us versatility to react to
our opponents. If the defense can keep
the pressure off our goalies, we should
do well.”

The focus of the defense is sopho-
more goalie Jim Kelly. Kelly played well
as a second stringer last year and is fa-
mous for his booming drop kicks.
Though he punts well, Kelly is also a
well-rounded goalie. Whether or not he
can play well enough to stop the volatile
offenses of Duke, Clemson and N.C.
State will have a big effect on Davidson’s
fortunes.

The midfield has changed dramati-
cally from last year. First of all, the Cats
will now use three instead of two midfiel-
ders. Second, neither of last years star-
ters return to the midfield. Instead,
seniors Mike Lufkin and Steve Bernhardt
and junior Billy Coxhead will roam the
midfield. All three are experienced and
can play the transition game well. Mid-
field is also an area where the freshmen
should help considerably, particularly
Steve Ott and Michael Spears. Depth
should keep people fresh and hustling.

The area of greatest concern for the
Cats is scoring. Not because Davidson
can’t score, but because they were incon-
sistent in their scoring last season, espe-

Serving Men and Women
All Styles

Rocky Kmeicik

Mature
, aK e50 u | 7 eS

rankings and gunning for the Southern
Conference Championship.

Third, although only three players
have graduated from last year’s team,
radical changes in players’ positions give
the team a completely different look.

The Wake game began with David-
son goalie Jim Kelly pushing off a Wake
Forest header to save a goal. Minutes
later, a misplay by a Wake defender gave
forward Tony Cabrales a shot on goal
which was scooped up by Wake’s goalie.

The game was played evenly, if not
roughly, for most of the half. Davidson
seemed anxious and hurried in their play
and ball handling. They also had some
communication problems — both typical
of opening games when the team is still
trying to find itself and settle down.
Their hustle made the difference until a
close play off a comer kick fired the
Wake team up.

For the last 15 minutes of the half,
Wake dominated completely and were
constantly threatening to score. They
found the break they wanted when
Wildcat defenders switched assign-
ments, leaving an opponent open near
the goal. A quick throw-in and a sharply-
angled shot gave Wake the only goal they
needed and the only one they would get.

In the second half, both teams played
a lot of kick and run with most of the play
in midfield. The Davidson offense was
not threatening, as their defense effec-
tively clogged the Wake scoring machine
which had opened up on the team last

year. The most outstanding play was a
save by Kelley off a 20-yard blast by
Wake’s left wing.

The loss was disappointing but a
drastic improvement from last year’s
rout.

Wednesday’s Game

Wednesday, the soccer team traveled
to Durham for a night game against pow-
erful Duke. There they lost 2-0. Slagle
was satisfied with the performance and
considered it a big improvement over the
Wake game. “Up front, I was very
pleased with the opportunities Sean [Au-
stin], Tony [Cabrales], and Wallis
[Goodman] gave us.”

Unfortunately, Duke scored in less
than three minutes leaving Davidson to
play catch-up the rest of the game. Their
other score came on a cross that was
headed in late in the second half.

The improved Davidson offense was
evident in the stats. Duke’s goalie, Pat
Johnston, an All-America candidate this
year, had to make six saves compared to
Kelly’s five. According to Slagle, Kelly
played a “superb” game as did fullback
Flowers.

Davidson plays UNCC Saturday at 5
p-m. in the football stadium in the first
round of the Charlotte Area Soccer Tour-
nament. Davidson has won this tourna-
ment for the past two years. UNCC is
also playing against stiffer competition
this year. They have lost to both Duke
and UCLA (tanked 4th in the nation) by
4-0 counts.

Cats in action Friday

cially in big games. For Davidson to play
well, the scoring must come each and
every game.

This burden falls on capable shoul-
ders. Juniors Tony Cabrales and Sean
Austin return after being the team’s top
two scorers last season. Joining them is
junior Wallace Goodman who played
well in midfield last season. If that isn’t
enough, the bench is stocked. Senior
Mike Mauze, junior Sean Goudie, and
sophomores Steve Stith and Brian
Shockley are all fine players. It is essen-
tial that Davidson’s forwards put points
on the board, and plenty of them, so that
the rest of the team’s efforts are not
wasted.

Trissy Lomax, owner
.128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C,
28036
892-7521

Welcome Freshmen:
Come see us for a small gift

“We did well last year and I think
we're ready to try a tougher schedule,”
said midfielder Lufkin. “We might lose
to Duke and Clemson. However, if we
continued to play teams of a lower
caliber, we wouldn't be proving any-
thing. This team is going to try and move
up and if we don’t quite make it this year,
then whatever we do accomplish this
year will be that much of a help to future
squads.”

Overall the Wildcats look strong.
Solid defense, depth, contributions from
the freshmen, and experience in the mid-
field and at forward should combine to
make the 1984 season very successful.
Watch out ACC!

Order in advance—
Wine and Beer By the case:
Cost plus 10%

Keg beer:

Cost plus 10%

to welcome you.

Rocky Kmeicik
