4 Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian

“

They formed Griffith Street Proper-
ties, which was incorporated in 1981 to
“preserve, restore, renovate, upgrade,
develop, and take all action necessary to
improve and promote the revitalization”
of the Griffith Street area, according to
the articles of the corporation. The arti-
cles say that any assets of the corporation
will become property of the College after
the group dissolves.

Covington said he would like to have
some say in determining how the land
would be used, but the ultimate decision
was the College’s. Covington suggested
single or double occupancy housing
similar to “the old fraternity court-type
arrangement.” Currie said other pos-
sibilities included green space or a park.

Griffith Street Properties has had the
land appraised, and has contacted the re-
sidents there, according to Kimbrough.
He said they have offered the appraised
price plus a mark-up. The corporation
has acquired four lots so far.

In addition, Covington said, it has
purchased lots on Lakeside Avenue in a
subdivision off Griffith Street, and has
constructed two houses there. He said
they would swap lots with Griffith Street
residents.

(continued from page |)

One resident, Rosealyn Patterson,
traded her Griffith Street house for one of
the houses on Lakeside Avenue.
Covington said the trade was in her inter-
est, and that the old lot was valued at
$20,000 while the new lot is worth
$40,000. He said she paid no additional
amount.

-Patterson’s old house was
molished recently.

Reaction

Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac

de-

said the town has not participated in the —

corporation's plan. She said the acquisi-
tions were “a very hot, emotional issue”
within the community. She said some re-
sidents had the feeling that “everyone
else is in league against them.”

She said some perceived the College
as being behind the corporation. “The
College represents something with a lot
of power,” she noted.

Currie acknowledged that the Col-
lege would like to see the approach im-
proved. “I think we're fortunate to have
someone with that vision,” he said.

Covington emphasized that the Col-
lege had no direct financial investment in
the corporation’s activity, only “the
token blessing of the College.” How-

Gantt Speaks

(continued from page |)

business and government led to
“an enlightened self-interest” character-
ized by a “social mentality.” Gantt feels
that this link led to the important election
of black Fred Alexander to the Charlotte
City Council in 1965. This signaled a
trend known as tokenism.

Tokenism allowed “some input of the
minorities,” Gantt aid; blacks could then
“sit on the inside, at least be able to ar-
ticulate a viewpoint that would otherwise
not have been heard.” Gantt stressed that
“in theory that’s what people wanted to
have happen.” The assassinnations of
King and Kennedy, however, led to feel-
ings of disillusionment and confusion in
the mid-’70s, Gantt said.

These feelings in Charlotte had two

important results — an increase in the af-
firmative action programs and tokenism,
and the defeat of various bond issues by
both blacks and “forgotten middle-class
whites.” Gantt stressed the power of
these “non-blacks treated like niggers” in
the political process of the period. These
whites and the blacks “voted against the
bond issues because they never saw any
of the benefits.” Gantt stated.

Although Gantt refuses to endorse
any Presidential candidate at the present
time, he said, “I’m excited about Jesse
Jackson, but I’m not ready to endorse
anyone. | want to endorse someone who
has a breadth of experience, a strong
commitment to our social goals, and a
chance to win.”

Athletic Forum

(continued from page !)

women's basketball team’s poor record,
Brown said this year’s problems resulted
from overambitious scheduling.
Sophomore Dana Lemon asked
whether some of the coaches with losing
records should consider resigning or
being fired. Frank responded that ‘‘a lot
of things must be taken into considera-
tion” when evaluating coaches and that
Davidson College should not be under
pressure to produce winning records.
Junior David McGee asked whether
there is any truth in the rumor that
athletes commit a higher percentage of
honor violations. Farrell said it may
seem like more athletes commit viola-
tions because they are more visible. Psy-
chology professor Ruth Ault pointed out
that athletes may be more likely to cheat
because they are under so much
academic and athletic pressure.

Frank said he would like to see the
Dean of Students’ office examine the
issue. He recommended that the Dean
tabulate old honor cases and compare the
percentage of athletes who commit viola-
tions with the percentage of the total stu-
dent body.

When asked whether the faculty and
student athletic polis will affect athletic
policy, Farrell said he would need to see
the results first. Farrell also said the poll
did not go into enough depth but that it
might be useful.

While discussing how the Wildcat
Club operates, the panel concluded that
all sports would benefit greatly from
their own booster groups.

Reported by Dan Voorhis and John Ga-
things.

~

ever, he said the College gave the corpo-
ration interest-free loans from gifts re-
ceived for that purpose.

Covington has invested around
$75,000 of his own money in the project.

Esther Johnson, a former Davidson
resident and leader of a senior citizens
group in town, said residents of black
neighborhoods around Griffith Street felt
that “they want to uproot us, to move us
out. The people feel that the developers
want to get your property for nothing.”

Their main concern, she said, was the
possible need for a new mortgage on
another house, when many of the people
involved were elderly or retired. She
suggested that the residents would have
to be convinced that they would be relo-
cated without having to make additional
house payments.

Covington said he or Currie would
offer any help they could in creating an
arrangement beneficial to the residents.

Covington said he was aware that
rumors and misinformation have been
circulating in the community concerning
the corporation’s activities.

“It's a long, slow, process and some
people are still entrenched there,” he
said, “and some are still suspicious.” He

Griffith Street Property Acquisition -

reiterated that the group is “‘not out to dis-
place anybody.”

Annie Mildred Lowrey, a former
member of the town committee on com-
munity development, voiced some resi-
dents’ concern that the lakeside houses
were inferior. “That's nothing but a
swamp. Neither house has a basement.
Years to come some are gonna cave in,”
she said.

Covington called that assessment in-
accurate. “She’s wrong, period. They’re
well-built houses; they meet all the FHA
{Federal Housing Authority] require-
ments. I'd feel very comfortable in one
myself,” he said.

Because of opposition from some re-
sidents, Covington does not think he will
live to see the project completed. He said
despite having invested his money and
work, “if you're fighting bad informa-
tion, after you butt your head against a
wall you might as well say to hell with
it.”

One Griffith Street resident reflected
on the residents’ position. “You don’t
half know,” he said. “Some say one
thing, some another.” Still, he thought
that the residents would sell out one at a
time. ‘Most will sell,” he said.

An instantaneous leap into the*magical’

has become a symbol of the

Discover the bestseller that

transcends the barrier between
fantasy and reality—and,
some say, some of the barriers
to world peace

A #1 bestseller in Germany, Italy, Spain and other European countries where it
ace movement. Now a bestseller in America. To be a
major motion picture released by Warner Bros. in 1984. Illustrated, printed

in two colors throughout. $15.95 at all booksellers

—Washington Post —

L

THE NEVERENDING STORY
‘tegins when you become part of tt foo

£

3 A
os oan

el DOUBLEDAY

- | Taetievexeioncsron |

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BV

