Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

A European Perspective Of American Politics

Duncan Fraser

November 11, 1984
Paris, France

From my perspective as a Davidson student living in
Paris, I viewed the recent U.S. election from outside the
country and learned not only much about France, but
also much about my own country as I “looked in on
America.”

According to the French view of the election, there
were only two real issues: the economy and East-West
relations, in that order. The French see an economically
strong America, credit Reagan, and hope that prosperity
will come to their country too. Further, they are con-
cerned about.the growing U.S. budget deficit. As for
East-West relations, the French blame the Soviets for the
break-down in Arms Control negotiations, but hope that
talks will resume shortly.

Reagan is an enigma to the French, as they have dif-
ficulty understanding his style, which differs sharply
from that of most European leaders. But in the past four
years they have grown to like and admire him. They be-
lieve he has vindicated the American electoral process,
which many French thought had failed when it elected
Carter and forced Nixon to resign over Watergate. While
I am sure that I, as an American citizen, did not view the
election through “French eyes,” I did sense that perhaps
the French saw it as a process greater than it was. To un-
derstand the French view, it is necessary to understand
the current economic and political situation in France.

1984 has been a more difficult year for France than
for the United States. Our economy has strengthened
and the Olympic Games in Los Angeles fueled a strong
feeling of pride, as America began to feel good again.
After Vietnam, Watergate, stag-flation, and Iran, Amer-
ica was finally coming up for air. It feels good, at last, to
be a patriotic American.

This morning I watched as French President Fran-
¢ois Mitterrand placed a wreath under the Arc de
Triomphe at the tomb of France’s Unknown Soldier.
Today is Armistice Day and all along the Champs-
Elysées people crowded to see the parade. They too were
trying to be patriotic, but that is difficult when times are
as tough as they are in France. Mitterrand’s rating in the
polls has dropped 5 percent and is now 24 percent; un-
employment is high and the French franc is low; and the
foreign trade deficit has been so high that until recently
French citizens could take only $150 out of the country
each year, virtually prohibiting foreign travel. Finally,
there are impéts (taxes) on almost everything imaginable
and gréves (strikes) are a definite part of French life.

If this were not enough, France’s experiment in
socialism will be confronted in 1986 with having to hold
legislative elections, which the right is sure to win.
Thus, a socialist president could be forced to name a

conservative government — a co-existence which is un-
known in French politics and is seen as a possible con-
stitutional crisis.

Last Tuesday, Election Day, I had dinner with a fel-
low student from L’ Institut d’ Etudes Politique, a school
which trains future French political leaders. Afterwards,
we walked by the famous Harry’s N.Y. American Bar
and saw a huge crowd outside awaiting election results;
most of them were young French people and many were
expressing their support of Reagan. As we walked on, I
asked my friend why the French were so intrigued by the
U.S. election. His answer was that the French quietly
realize that America is the engine of the Western
World.

“But more than that,” he continued, “America _reas-
sures the world that democracy can work. French poli-
tics cannot compare — look at our money,” he said. “We
can’t even find one statesman to put on our money. In-
Stead, we have Delacroix on the 100 franc note and
Julius Caesar on the 200! Most French people wouldn’t
admit it, but Ithink we are admiring, and perhaps a little
SS RTE]

Reagan is an enigma to the
French, as they have difficulty
understanding his style, which
differs sharply from that of
most European leaders. But in
the past four years they have

grown to like and admire him.

LS Sa SS DL LN NT TS EN EL LSD TT |
envious, of America. In the past 200 years, you have had
one constitution and around 40 presidents. We, on the
other hand, have had two monarchies, two empires, one
complete occupation by Germany, and five republics!
Mitterrand is the fourth president of the fifth Republic
and we aren't even sure whether our next will be the fifth
of the fifth or the first of the sixth! It’s crazy!”

Well, the next morning I heard the news on the radio:
Reagan had won by a landslide. A liberal newspaper,
Libération asked ““Why Reagan?” while the conserva-
tive Le Figaro called him ‘“‘a TRUE President,” in a not-
so-subtle poke at Mitterrand. The result was no surprise,
of course, but all day Wednesday people talked of the
election and the margin of Reagan’s win — a margin
more than twice Mitterrand’s approval rating. For while
the French may not completely understand our electoral
system, they knew enough of this foreign, American
election to have an opinion. That made me wonder how
many Americans, much less students at Davidson, could

name the top three probable contenders in the next
French presidential election, or even name the year in
which it will be held.

Americans’ lack of knowledge on current world af-
fairs was the most startling thing that I learned from liv-
ing in France during the election. While we have a good
base in world history and know of the really major events
(assassinations, wars, etc.), we really seem to miss ev-
erything in between. This is a problem which America
must solve if it is going to be competitive in the world of
the 21st century. Davidson graduates, who go on to such
diverse fields as medicine, politics, and business, must
begin to think in terms of a world community.

Our country’s size and isolated location make this
difficult, but still there are ways to gain this global out-
look. First, a reading (cover-to-cover) of an interna-
tional magazine (such as Time) each week is one of the
best ways to gain a working knowledge of the world.
This is a step that can be taken individually and one that
provides a sufficient, broad knowledge of the world.

Second, Americans should place a greater emphasis
on learning second languages well enough to carry on
everyday conversations. I am constantly amazed by how
many languages Europeans speak fluently; most of Fr-
ance’s top students speak French, English, and usually
German. While we are fortunate to have the most inter-
national language as our native tongue, we are often seen
as lazy by the rest of the world for not learning others. I
have noticed how much French people appreciate ‘my
speaking French, even when they can speak English or
when I am talking with another American. This same ap-
preciation in more important situations just might be
what is needed to reach a business or political agree-
ment.

Finally, Americans should try to live in, or at least
try to visit, a non-English speaking country and attempt
to communicate with its residents. This is the best way to
gain a true world perspective and to get the most out of
foreign travel. This is /iving in another country and cul-
ture, NOT sightseeing, and NOT taking an exotic
fieldtrip. The Junior Year Abroad programs and David-
son’s other study abroad programs provide good oppor-
tunities for this interaction, but one must take the initia-
tive to meet the country's residents.

Whatever the means, solutions must be found, as
this lack of a global perspective threatens American's fu-
ture position in the world community. Further, the situa-
tion becomes more urgent as distances shrink and more
of our problems are international in scope. Davidson
graduates must have this global awareness. The Rusk
Program in International Studies is a good start, but until
Davidson College as a whole can look beyond her
bucolic surroundings and sense this urgency, it is doubt-
ful that many of its graduates can or will attain a true
global perspective.

Fraser is a junior from Atlanta, GA. He is JYA in France
this year.

Both Anne Lambert and Dee Reynolds
had campaigned all week and had even
distributed fliers door to door on campus
when they learned of the change late
Monday evening.

Obviously, the SGA has made sev-
eral mistakes in its handling of elections
this year. Rob Vaughn and other would-
be candidates did raise a relevant com-
plaint- However, the SGA’s ridiculously
sloppy handling of the elections injured
an organization that had complied with
the election procedures — in particular
with regard to the publicity of sign-ups.
As members of the Y-SSC we must re-
spectfully request a formal apology from
those elected representatives responsible

for these acts of gross negligence.
Chris Blake
Beth Maczka

Rusk Program

To the Editors:
Through The Davidsonian, | would
like to speak to évery Davidson student:

You have perhaps heard that I have
been named director of the Dean Rusk
Program in International Studies at
Davidson. I believe this program bears
the great promise of bringing the world
into every Davidson student’s education.
My hope is that each student will share
my belief in the importance of the pro-
gram, and will take part in it.

Right now we are in the formative
stage. There is a lot of international edu-
cation going on at Davidson, and that is
our foundation on which to build. During
the next few months we will be assessing
current international studies and plan-
ning specifically what the Dean Rusk
Program will be.

In that effort, no one’s views are so
important as yours, the student’s. I want
to invite you to think about international
education at Davidson and give me your
thoughts. All ideas are welcome, and if
you wish your views will be kept in con-
fidence. I am particularly interested in
knowing what aspect of international
education you believe would enhance

your own education and your career
plans or prospects.

Please write to me (directly at The
Citadel, Charleston, S.C., 29409, or via
the Center for Special Studies); leave
word at the Center if you wish to see me
on my next visit to campus; or speak to
one of the members of the Dean Rusk

Program Student Advisory Committee
(Kathy Bray, Sally Howell, Julie Ster-
nal, Mike Wilkinson, Mark Sandy, Mar-
vin Overby). I will hope to hear from
you. And I look forward most eagerly to
being on campus and working directly
with you beginning next sumer.

Jack Perry

The. Davidsonian “Opinions” sec-
tion is the only forum on campus for
extended commentary on pertinent is-
sues. We will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest we re-
ceive from the campus community.

We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in
our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and
those written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require that opinions be
signed. We will print unsigned articles
only if compelling reason exists for

Opinions Policy

withholding the author's name, and
the author is known to either the editor
or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions for
style or content but we reserve the right
to edit for rules of common English.
We will inform the author of substan-
tial changes.

5) Since space for Opinions arti-
cles is limited, we reserve the right to
select articles from those we receive
for publication. We will attempt to
print any article we withhold from
publication for space reasons the next
week.

