8 Friday, March 30, 1984/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Baseball Takes Furman:
Faces Western Carolina

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson jumped back into the con-
ference playoff race by sweeping a three
game series with Furman last weekend.
The Wildcats are now 8-7-1 overall and
are tied with The Citadel for second in
the division at 3-3.

Before the Furman series, Davidson
traveled to Charlotte to play UNCC. The
star of the game was the weather as
strong winds dominated play. The Cats
lost 6-3 despite freshman Dave Tur-
geon’s fourth home run of the season.

In the first game of the Furman
series, Davidson scored five runs in the
bottom of the third inning. That was all
freshman starter Billy Waitsman needed.
Waitsman went the distance for the third
time as Davidson won 5-3

“It was really great to see all the
fans,” said Waitsman. “It makes all the
difference in the world to be playing at
home in front of a friendly crowd.”

Davidson took game two 7-6 when

sophomore Chip Knox doubled, was sac-
rificed to third by junior Dan Simonds,
and scored on a ground ball by Turgeon.
The rapidly improving freshmen class
provided some big moments as freshman
Steve Condon was the winning pitcher,
and freshman outfielder Dave Kirby hit a
home run to score Davidson's first two
runs.

The final game was a 7-0 blowout.
Sophomore Scott Weaver got his first
shutout of the year as well as scoring the
first Davidson run. The rout, however,
failed to change the bush-league attitude
of Furman; the Paladins continued to
pour out of the dugout after every inning
even though their team was not accom-
plishing anything.

This weekend Davidson hosts divi-
sion-leading Western Carolina. ““West-
ern is the best team in the conference,”
coach George Greer said. “They have
good pitching, good speed, and solid de-
fense. It is important that we do well this
series to stay in the race for the playoffs.”

Randy Stroud

MIT.

Dean Polk goes for a drop shot in yesterday's tennis match against

Track ‘Teams Find Success In Season’s First Meets

By JEAN WEBB

The men’s track team began its out-
door season March 1!7 in competition
against Washington and Lee, followed
by a meet last Saturday with Lynchburg
College and Catawba College.

The women’s team had its first meet
Saturday against Campbell University.
However, most of the track and field par-
ticipants began their training last winter
and ran in indoor meets before the season
began.

Perfect weather conditions graced
Whittle Track in both of last week’s
meets, contrasting with the cold, rainy
weather which plagued the teams last
spring. Both teams have only a few
members this year as the cumulative-
meet scores reveal. Catawba was the
only team to score lower than Davidson.
But this‘does not overshadow some out-
standing individual performances.

The 440-relay run by junior Jim
Walker, sophomores Eric McClarty and
Jay Braun, and senior Paul Fry, started
the running events at the Washington and
Lee meet with a thrilling race, which
they won in 44.57 seconds. Co-captains
Jeff Carter and Jim Walker placed first in

Athlete Of The Week

their respective events, Carter in the high
jump (6’6”) and Walker in the 200 met-
ers (23.61 seconds).

Braun took first place in the pole
vault with the height of 13°6”, while
sophomore Lou Krempel had the win-
ning throwin the discus of 125’7.5”.

Last Saturday’s performances
brought some spectacular victories as
well. Once again the men’s 440-relay
team finished first, improving its time to
49 seconds. Carter remained the victor in
the high jump at 6’6” and Krempel won
the discus, bettering his previous throw
by 3°7". Braun placed first in both the
long jump (19’9”) and the pole vault
(13°).

Highlighting the meet, freshman
Greg Foreman stunned the crowd, and
the competition, in both the 1500 meter
and 800 meter runs. Foreman’s strong
kick during the last 100 meters of each
race propelled him past the other runners
to win the 1500 in 4:09.33 and later the
800 in 2:01.35. Distance runners senior
Tim Cassell, sophomore Rand Hartsell,
and freshman Steve Harrison also
finished strong in their races.

Of Davidson’s six-woman team, two

This week's Athlete of the Week is
pitcher Scott Weaver. Against Furman
he led the Wildcats to a 7-0 victory by
allowing only four hits while recording
the team’s first shutout of the year. He
also contributed in the weekend series
with excellenct hitting. Weaver is a

sophomore from Villanova, Penn.

members captured first place finishes.
Junior distance-queen Sarah Patterson
cruised to victory in the 5000 meter run
with a time of 19:30.63, finishing more
than 60 seconds ahead of Campbell’s
Sandy Martin.

In the same race, junior Susie Dresser
turned in a third place finish with a per-
sonal record of 20:42.14 minutes. With
no opponant in sight, sophomore Judy
Dalton easily took first place in the 800
meter run in 2:34.8 minutes.

Newcomers to the team, juniors
Susie Myers and Alison Moy, joined

senior Sharon Bryant in the sprinting
events.

Coach Gwen Harris is pleased with
both teams. She praised their willingness
to work hard and venture out into differ-
ent track and field events. Part of her
strategy is to enter the athletes in as many
events as possible without sacrificing
quality.

The Wildcats will not compete to-
morrow because they are preparing for
the annual Davidson Relays next
weekend, the biggest meet held here in
the spring.

Disastrous Holes Spoil
Golf Team’s Chances

By TYLER LONG

Last Monday and Tuesday, the
Davidson golf team traveled to Bur-
lington, N.C. to compete against 25
other comparable teams in the Elon Col-
lege Golf Invitational held at the Ala-
mance Country Club.

This week, with senior Gary Schenk,
junior Todd Wiebusch, sophomore Bob
Carr and freshmen Tom Davis and Tyler
Long,Davidson entered the tourney with
potential to produce an unprecedented
low team score, the lowest four of the
five scores recorded. Monday’s round
proved encouraging to the Davidson golf
program as the team, sparked by captain
Schenk’s round of 76, posted a score of
323. This placed them in 43th place, only
two strokes behind four other schools.
Davis and Carr turned in scores of 80 and
81, respectively.

Teeing at anearned late tee time on
Tuesday, Davidson was in a better posi-
tion than in previous years during this an-
nual invitational. Long, after posting an
unexpected round on Monday, led Tues-
day’s scoring with a round of 77, slightly
ahead of Schenk’s 79. The rest of the
team was plagued with one ‘disastrous
hole each at the turn, spoiling their po-
tential low rounds. Davidson finished
Tuesday with a 337, which moved them
out of their previous ranking.

The golf team “shows positive signs
of improvement for the remainder of the
season,” said coach Thomas Cartmill.
Davidson will host a dual match against
Western Carolina next Wednesday at
Raintree Country Club, where they hope
to gain further exposure to the course
which will host this year’s conference
tournament.
