Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian

Open Luncheon Sponsors Speaker on Hunger

Next week's open luncheon will feature Chris Loftis, a Southeastern
Theological Seminary student who has devoted his efforts to helping CROP, a
world hunger organization. Two years ago, Loftis walked 700 miles across
North Carolina to raise money for CROP and to increase hunger awareness. Last
year he walked from Raleigh to Washington, D.C. He will share his experiences
of staying with hungry people on his walks. He will also sing.

Eating House and Fraternity Officers Elected

Fannie and Mable — Sherri Schwenke, president; Catherine Melton, vice
president, Mark Steiner, treasurer, David Resnik and Paul Price, social chair-
men.

Phi Delt — Bob Letton,-president; John Malone, vice president; David Vau-
ghan, treasurer.

Emanon — Sid Jones, president; Steve Hughes and Gina Triplett, vice presi-
dent; Liz Ruehl, treasurer, Rhett Brown and Lynn Powell, social chairman.

PAX — Murray Simpsen, president; Garry Banks, vice president; Tim
McGaughey, treasurer; Janice Evans and Elizabeth Simpson, social chairmen.

Rusk — Paige Marsh, president; Binny Jannetta, vice president; Lisa
McNeilly, treasurer; Susie Myers, social chairman.

KA — Tony Holt, president; Jack Cobb. vice president; Hartley Hall, trea-
surer; Taylor Bowen, social chairman.

Fiji — Marshall Johnston, president; Jim Labrec, treasurer; John Toler, so-
cial chairman.

SPE — Steve MacMillan, president, Mike Washburn, vice president; Gus
Janeson, treasurer; Brad Waddell, social chairman.

Warner Hall, SAE, and the BSC have not yet elected their new officers.

Programs Spotlight In Search of Excellence

On Thursday, March 22, the Pre-Management Committee will host two pro-
grams dealing with the bestseller In Search of Excellence by Thomas J. Peters
and Robert H. Waterman, Jr.

At 4 p.m., Crawford Crenshaw *76 will deliver a speech outlining the man-
agerial strategies and techniques espoused by the book. A Harvard Business
School graduate , Crenshaw works for McKinsey & Company, the management
consulting firm where the authors worked during their preparation of the book.
which included researching 43 excellent companies.

At 7:30, a group of panelists will discuss successful management methods
which they have encountered, as well as those explained in the bestselling book.
In addition to Crenshaw, the panel will include Sara Cohen of Apple Computers,
Inc.; Price Gwynn III of Lance, Inc.; and John Savage of Nucor Corporation.

The Pre-Management Committee attempts to keep the Davidson College
community abreast of trends and opportunities in business and management.

cient th Ua eet ed he ga tM -~ mane eee te ae ae me ee ne .
or aK i, RNAS RUC ete BG athe BATE OD AT ON AY wt EO BR NS REN Pw Nee he

Thompson Twins to Perform at Davidson

The Thompson Twins will come to Love Auditorium on Saturday, April 9.
The popular British Band first achieved prominence with its 1982 album, /n The
Name of Love. They have since released Sidekicks, which contained the hits
“Lies” and “Love On Your Side.” and their current LP, Into the Gap, featuring
“Hold Me Now.” their biggest international single. The band has appeared with
The Police, David Bowie, and Peter Gabriel.

Tickets for the show go on sale in the Union this Monday. Tickets will be $5,
and will be limited to four per person. the opening act for the show is as yet unde-
cided. ,

NEWS SUMMARY—-

Musical arrangements have also been made for Spring Frolics Weekend.
The band Stoneshow, a tribute to the Rolling Stones, wil! perform on Saturday,
April 14, on the football field. The band, which has been in existence less than
two years, plays a repertoire of Rolling Stones classics, and features lead singer

‘Mike Carey imitating Mick Jagger.

Rhodora Trio to Play in Hodson Hall

The Rhodora Trio will present works by Bach, Poulenc, Hindemith, and
Damase at 8 p.m. Sunday in Hodson Hall. Members of the trio are Shirley
Jackson, flutist with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra; and Cynthia Lawing,
pianist and three-time soloist with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra.

The concert is dedicated to the memory of Dr. Cynthia Grant, former David-
son College biology professor who died in January. It will be broadcast live on
WDAV (89.9 FM).

Davidson's instrumental ensembles, also recently returned from a spring
tour, will perform at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday in Hodson Hall. The wind ensemble
will perform works by Dvorak, Holst and William Schuman. The concert also
will feature performances by the jazz ensemble and other chamber ensembles.

Second Sloan Liberal Arts Symposium

The increase in utility rates since 1970 and the abandonment of nuclear
power plants have stirred national debate about the cost of electricity. Are the
price increases fair? Who should pay the cost of power plants that will never pro-
duce — the customers or the shareholders?

These and other questions will be addressed next week in a symposium
called: “Technology and Values: Decision Theory and Electric Rates.”

Symposium participants will be Robert K. Koger, chairman of the North
Carolina Utilities Commision; Stephen P. Reynolds, manager of rates for
Pacific Gas and Electric Company; Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, Charles A. Dana
professor of philosophy at Davidson and adjunct professor of ‘industrial en-
gineering at N.C. State University; and Richard F. Hirsh, assistant professor of
the history of technology at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
and visiting scholar at Harvard Business School.

All lectures will be held in the Gallery of the Chambers Building, and are
open to the public.

The symposium is the second in a series sponsored by the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation, which awarded Davidson $250,000 in 1982 to increase the role of
technology and quantitative study in its curriculum. Four additional symposia
which will follow are “Mathematics of Clustering Algorithms,” in October
1984; “Photography: A Technological Art Form,” January 1985; “Technology
and Freedom,” March 1985; and “Collapse of the City Infrasructure: Water,
Sewer, and Public Policy,” October, 1985.

Writing Competitions Announced
The English department this term will offer two creative writing competi-
tions.

The Vereen Ball competition is open to any regularly enrolled Davidson

College sfudent above the freshman crags: ‘rhe Witney Hall Competition i fim eee

ited to freshman. Manuscripts should indicate the name of the competition for
which they are submitted.

All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall
in any recognized category of creative writing, such as fiction, drama, poetry or
the essay.

Students may submit as many entries in as many different categories as they
wish. Poems should be submitted as groups rather than as individual entries.

All entries must be typed,.double spaced and must appear on one side of the
paper only.

Name of the writer must be enclosed in an attached envelope bearing the title
of the entry. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.

_ All entries must reach some member of the Department of English by 5 p.m.
Wednesday, April 4. Students entering asnother competition must be present at
the awards ceremony. The judge for the Vereen Bell award this year is the distin-
quished poet, Dave Smith, twice a runner-up for the Pulitzer Prize. He will pre-
sent the awards at a ceremony at 7:30 p.m.
