10 Friday, January 13, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ann Meador, Editor David Resnik, Executive Editor
Ross Holt, Managing Editor
Lentz Ivey, Business Manager
Jeffrey Mann, Associate Editor
John Gathings, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Paul Kowert, Advertising Manager

Help Wanted

Wanted: A new editor. Contact the yearbook staff anytime, anywhere.
i

Dan Voorhis, News Editor
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor

When the SGA’s winter elections concluded Dec. 13, one campus
organization was left without a leader. No one even signed up to run for
Quips and Cranks editor.

The incident is frustrating for two reasons. First, it is disappointing
when not a single student here is interested in being responsible for run-
ning the largest-budget student organization. Most students could use
Davidson’s heavy academic load as an excuse for not running, but cer-
tainly someone must be capable of bearing the extra burden.

Second, and more important, this incident demonstrates a clear fail-
ure of Davidson’s electoral system. If Quips and Cranks had been able to
promote its own editors from within, then new staff members would
have had incentive for working and moving up the organization’s ranks.
This process would guarantee continuity and qualified editors, and it
would also attract more new staff members.

- Election reform is clearly in order. Like professional publications,
Davidson publications must be able to determine their own editors. Pub-
lications — even most college publications — choose their own editors;
general elections are inappropriate because the general public knows
nothing of what an editor should be. Furthermore, most of the general
public doesn’t especially care.

Some may fear that if student publications select their own editors,
the publications would be run by cliques. Although designed to prevent
cliques, open elections by their nature encourage them. An entire staff
can be replaced as the result of a single election, while this possibility be-
comes improbable when the staff appoints its own editors. In a small
community such as Davidson, only a limited number of students will
want to work on a publication in the first place. In short, there will al-
ways be publications “cliques,” whether the editor is elected or selected.

Student government elections are legitimate, because the persons
elected directly represent the students. Publications, on the other hand,
serve as a forum for evaluating student opinion and sentiment rather than
a body for representing it. Elections in this case politicize editorships un-

epsarily.. wien oe - wae. va
eee Pw TM a ot Pe hae, Sle aerbtes seer ten eee tae 580 Tee Al

The Davideonian is published Fritizyg during the schoo! year by the students of Devideon College.

Address to: The Davidsonish, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 682-

2000 ext. 148 and 140. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Seudent Union. Subscriptions cost

$12 per voor. . Advertising rates available on request. Second clees postage paid at Davideon, North
ine 280036.

News Staff: David McGee. Assistant News Editor, Roxanna Guilford, Rand Hartsell, Bob Loper,
Wayne Magruder, Frances Palmer, John Ruppenthal, Tom Schilling, Julie Sternal, Lisa Thomas.
David Van Pelt, Elizabeth White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Ida Phillips, Assistant Arts and Entertainment Editor. Miguel

Abreu, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, Tim Waples

Sports Staff: Scott Huie, Assistant Sports Editor, Boyd Blackburn, Kerry Brown, Steve Byers.

Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Carrol! Overton, Assistant Photography Editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Michae!
Dent, Caryl Dawson, Virginia Harris, Kevin Horan, Laura McGee, Anderson Scott, Mike Snell,

Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Sara Ross, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Kevin Horan. Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Debby Williams. Copy Editing: Chris-
tine Jackson

Circulation: David McCurry. Manager

SBS foe: mA Fre) WES AB

HOW DO You KILL SOMETHING
. THAT CAN’ T pessnuyt DO 0 ANYTH ING?

. GA LOGE saat ae

A Seite ett ix emma

OZ ae Sear: RiP Sa See
a a

oe ees ea

as

~~
Te
OP. OR el MB oF

ae 77
‘

-- HE WAS BORN BAD,--pmy
DEEP oN A CAMPUS IN

Money For People, Not Trophies

To the Editor:

I read with pleasure the article in the
December Update conceming mathema-
tics professor Bruce Jackson and the per-
sonal interest he took in his students.
Professor Jackson is not unique; David-
son has done a suberb job in attracting
and retaining many professors of his high
caliber. I too, had several such teachers.
And that is largely what makes Davidson
so great and so warmly remembered by
its alumni. It is the experiences that touch
individuals that matter most. Those ex-
periences change and influence us the

These schools, which as we all know
constitute a majority of schools, try to
compensate for this shallow approach to
the individual by giving their students
(but mostly their nostalgic alumni) great
sports teams. In my eyes this is an ex-
traordinarily poor second to what David-
son students receive.

And so I read with horror that there
are still (!) those who advocate allocating
scarce resources best spent elsewhere on
football. This is a grievous mistake in
logic. Intramurals, the arts and the class-
room are all infinitely more important. I

most and are warmly cherished... for hope that those of the Davidson commu-
everyone wants to be treated as aunique —_—inity who advocate so-called preferential
individual. treatment of athletes are ridiculed into si-

A large college or a state university
cannot reach its people this way. The
numbers preclude it. Lecturers typically
have hundreds, sometimes a thousand in
attendance. Many classes are taught by
busy and harried graduate teaching assis-
tants. Professors (so called) are inter-
ested not in students but in research and
publishing papers.

lence. They do not understand what
Davidson is, was, or should be. I have
never heard one single person in my class
(including some who played football)
ever say that varsity sports should be a
priority item. They all remember people
and community as more important.
Spend your money on people, not
trophies.
Herbert punmock, "74.

ee DS em ZEN. SENS HS

w

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all let-
ters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3)We require thet letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name,

Ww ace Daa a ee

SPE MADE

explain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print
letters that a) function as advertise-
ments; b) contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a
viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in other letters printed on the
same topic. We also reserve the right
to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed in
the letters that we print.

