2

Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian

Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Dyal To Visit

William M. Dyal Jr., president of American Field Service International/In-
tercultural Programs, Inc., will spend the week of Feb. 5 here as a Woodrow
Wilson Visiting Fellow.

During the week, Dyal will conduct five separate discussions that will be
open to the public without charge.

Dyal will discuss “Ethics and Current Events” at 3 p.m. Tuesday in the Mor-
rison Room. At 8 p.m. that night he will speak on “Latin America and Caribbean
Events” in the 900 Room of the College Union.

On Wednesday, Dyal will discuss “Human Rights” at an open luncheon in
the 900 Room. A yogurt and salad luncheon will be available at 12:30 p.m. for
$1.25. Dyal's presentation will begin at 1:10 p.m.

Also on Wednesday, Dyal will discuss “Foreign Policy” at 3 p.m. in the
Morrison Room of the College Union.

His last public appearance will be at 3 p.m. Thursday, in the Morrison Room
where he will discuss “Cross-Cultural Learning.”

During the remainder of his visit Dyal will meet informally with students and
will take part in a number of Davidson college classes.

Dyal became the president of American Field Service. International/Inter-
cultural Programs, a 61-country international exchange program committed to
intercultural learning for high school students, classes, teachers, workers and
young professionals in April, 1981.

Prior to that appointment, Dyal served as a consultant advisor to the Presi-
dent of the Ford Foundation.

Dyal received his B.A. degree from Baylor University and received a master
of theology degree from Southern Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, in 1953.

The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program has placed Visiting Fel-
lows on the campuses of 155 American colleges since the program was started in

1973. Visiting Fellows are recruited by the Woodrow Wilson National Fetlow-
ship Foundation from the areas of business, public service and other non-
academic professions.

Art Gallery Sponsors Constellation Contest

The Davidson College Art Gallery will sponsor a contest to see who can
identify the most “stars.” \

A 45-photograph exhibition of photographs of well-known personalities
from the ’40s, ’50s, and ’60s by Philippe Halsman will go on display Feb. 6 in
the Chambers Art Gallery. The contest will run until 5 p.m. Feb. 14. The person
who identifies the most personalities will win a Halsman photograph valued at
$450.

Entry forms will be available from a gallery attendant during gallery hours,
Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. yntil 5 p.m. The Gallery is closed on
weekends.

Labels identifying the photographs will be posted by Feb. 16, and a winner
will be announced. In case of a tie a runoff will be scheduled with a new set of
photographs.

The exhibit will continue through Feb. 24.

Halsman, a self-faught photographer, achieved a reputation in the U.S. as a
master of portraiture. During the days of the first Life magazine, Halsman’s
photographs frequenty appeared on its pages, and he is the only photographer
ever to make the cover 100 times.

NEWS SUMMARY

Last Thursday’s Explosions Explained

A Davidson student admitted setting off two artillery simulators in front of
Belk Dormitory last Thursday night. Davidson police will not press charges, and
the Dean of Students’ office is handling the case.

The student obtained the simulators from a friend at another school.

No one was injured in the blasts which some Belk residents said shook their
room windows. ;

Summer Award for Foreign Travel Offered

David Barnard *79 has given the College $1,000 for student summer projects
abroad, with perference given to students planning to work in non-European
countries. Barnard won a Watson Fellowship during his senior year, and spent
his Watson year traveling and studying in Pakistan and Taiwan. .

The International Education Committee, working with Barnard, has estab-
lished these requirements: .

—The project presented in an application need not include plans for formal
“classroom” learning though that is not excluded.

—The award will be given to a student planning to return to Davidson.
Graduating seniors are not eligible.

—The application should include a vita indicating interests and accomplish-
ments, a two-to-three page essay describing the summer project and indicating
what the student hopes to achieve, and a proposed budget.

—Applications should be sent to Prof. Clark Ross, Chairman International
Education Committee. The deadline is March 16.

House Burns In Davidson
A fire broke out Wednesday at 11 a.m. in a house owned by the College on

_ 535 Westside Terrace in Davidson. Residents of the house said the fire started in

a second-floor bedroom. All nine persons in the house at the time got out of the
house safely. Fire officials are investigating the incident.

Senior Class Votes On Gift

By a margin of three votes, the senior class voted Wednesday in a run-off to
make the senior gift a scholarship to be awarded to an entering student eligible
for financial aid. , oe ne

Exactly half of the class voted in Wednesday’s runoff with 87 seniors prefer-
ring the financial aid scholarship and 84 choosing a scholarship within the Dean
Rusk Endowment for International Education.

The initial vote on-Tuesday resulted in 73 votes for the Rusk Endowment
scholarship, 7! for the financial aid scholarship, and 47 for a faculty develop-
ment fund. Fifty-five percent of the class participated in that vote.

Earlier this month the class ranked the above choices along with choices for a
physical gift and a campus organization fund to determine the actual ballot.

Because both the Endowment scholarship and the financial aid scholarship
were popular, the Senior Class Executive Committee has discussed ways of
combining the two in an effort to appeal to the greatest number of class mem-
bers. One possibility is to provide a financial aid scholarship to those students
desiring to study abroad that might otherwise not have the chance.

Suggestions or comments about the senior class gift should be directed to
seniors Pat Woodward, Ester Kim, or David Hutchinson.

KING OF PIZZA

Mooresvile FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

ZAMPSEMBULE
LAMP SEAPARSR

- SUMMER JOB OPENINGS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp

Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor is a challenging and
rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16.

_ Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and character development

camps located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing,
motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual camping ac-
tivities including a wide variety of major sports. Qualifications
include a genuine interests in young people, ability to instruct in
one phase of the camps’ programs, and excellent references. For

_ further information and application, pléase write a brief resume

of training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, Direc-
tor, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North
Carolina 27605.

