Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian

Town,College Work On Dispatch System Changes

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson College and the town
police department are currently negotiat-
ing improvements in the police dispatch
system, according to Davidson police
chief Jack Warlick.

Warlick said the College and the
town which use the same system, seek
“total improvement of the system we
now have.” Under the current system
police officers take dispatch calls from

the station 8 hours a day on weekdays.
An elderly man who lives in the same
building covers the other 16 hours, from
5 p.m. to 8 a.m. On weekends the same
person remains on duty 24 hours a day.
The system has come under attack re-
cently as being inefficient and prone to
errors. In February the SGA voted unani-
mously to petition College Trustees for
revision of the system. An incident in
which the dispatcher was called from

Harding House and failed to give proper
location and information to police offi-
cers, delaying their arrival, prompted the
SGA petition.

The major obstacle to a new security
arrangement, according to Warlick and
Physical Plant director Grover Meetze, is
a lack of funds. This summer Davidson
College will receive a $30,000 Duke En-
dowment grant to improve campus secu-
rity, but the grant is insufficient for the

Posey Recieves $13,000 NSF Grant

By FRANCIS PALMER

The National Science Foundation has
awarded senior Lynmarie Posey a
$13,000 grant for graduate study in
chemistry. Posey will use the grant in
conjunction with an Onsager Fellowship
at Yale University.

Posey said that it takes four to five
years to earn a doctorate in chemistry and
that the grant is good for three years. The
grant pays an $8,100 a year stipend and a
$4,900 educational fee. She plans to
study either molecular beam spectros-
copy or nuclear magnetic ressonance
spectroscopy within physical chemistry.

Of the 540 NSF grants awarded this
year, only 42 of them were for work in
chemistry, according to chemistry Pro-
fessor Felix A. Carroll. The NSF’s selec-
tivity makes Posey’s grant “a very high
honor,” Carroll said.

Posey said the foundation awarded
the grants on the basis of U.S. citizen-
ship, previous research experience, GRE
scores, grades, a letter of recommenda-

Lynnmarie Posey

tion, and a proposal for graduate study.
Her proposal was not so detailed as a re-
search proposal but served to “tell them
what you might be doing,” she said.‘‘One
thing that was very much in my favor was
that I had done research here with Dr.
Schuh and Dr. Carroll.”

Posey said that during her sophomore
year and the summer afterward, she

Randy Stroud

worked with chemistry Professor Merlyn
Schuh on laser and flash spectroscopy.
Last summer and throughout this year,
Posey has worked with Carroll on an or-
ganic synthesis project. According to
Carroll, Posey “was a very dedicated
worker . . . she was a model of precision
and of attention to detail.” He added that
Posey has worked with _ toxics,
pyrophorics and corrosives which pro-
vided ‘“‘some element of danger.” Their
work was with highly strained molecules
for use in the studies of photophysical
processes.

Carroll said Posey is the second
Davidson chemistry graduate in three
years to receive a grant from the NSF.
Warren Beck °78 also continued his
chemistry studies at Yale. More than 80
percent of Davidson chemistry graduates
pursue further education at some sort of
graduate school, Carroll said.

Posey hopes to enter the teaching
profession at a school with a graduate
program after finishing at Yale.

College to form its own dispatch system,
according to Meetze. ‘“We’re not going
to make a move until we know how to
continue it,” he said. Meetze said he ex-
pects a new system to be agreed upon in
the next several months.

The primary objective of the town
police and College is to organize a full-
time dispatch unit. “We’re working to-
ward a 24-hour dispatch service service,
with one man not working eight to 12
hours at a time,” said College chief of se-
curity Jack Hughes. The current system,
he said, “is one which they found was
convenient” but is not an ideal situation.”
Hughes does not foresee the College dis-
continuing use of the town’s dispatch
system.

One suggestion that has been made is
that students handle dispatch calls.
Hughes said this option would not work
because students are not in Davidson
three to four months of the year. “It’s not
feasible to even consider that route,” he
said.

Warlick and Hughes pointed out
measures that have been taken to im-
prove security under the current system.
They said the dispatchers have been ad-
vised to be more careful and more aware
of the location of off-campus houses.
“We've counselled dispatchers to be
more alert to calls from campus,” War-
lick said. Campus police have also instal-
led lighting in several locations. The area
behind Julia Johnson House and the
parking lot between Julia Johnson House
and Harding House have been lighted, as
well as the paths behind the Commons
leading to Irwin and Knox dorms.

Shue Discusses The MoralityOf Nuclear Weapons

By DAVID RESNIK

Dr. Henry Shue, ‘61, professor of
Philosophy and director of the Center for
Philosophy and Public Policy in
Washington, D.C., in his lecture here
this week, attacked what he terms “a new
Washington orthodoxy,” the idea of
counter-force deterrence.

Counter-force deterrence differs
from counter-value deterrence because it
aims at destroying military targets in-
stead of people. Proponents of counter-
force deterrence claim that it allows one
to fight a just war with nuclear weapons
since new technology allows countries to
discriminate between targets so they are
less likely to kill non-combatants.

Shue presented five arguments
against counter-force deterrence. In his
first point he acknowledged that modern
nuclear weapons are more accurate than
their precursors, but he said it would be
“Orwellian double-speak” to call a des-
tructive force of 300,000 tons of TNT ac-
curate. Simply put, “no nuclear weapon
could possibly have a discriminitory
use”, according to Shue.

In his second point, he also claimed
that there is no discriminating use for nu-
clear weapons, since so many important
military targets coincide with large con-
centrations of the Soviet population. Ac-
cording to Shue, there are 60 main
counter-force targets in the Soviet

Union’s metropolitan area.

His third point concerned incentives.
Shue said counter-force targeting acts
not as a deterrent but as a stimulant to nu-
clear war. Counter-force targeting de-
mands that one has the. ability to make a
“first strike” in a nuclear war. But both
sides will become worried about having
their weapons destroyed before they can
use them. Each side worries that the
other will “jump the gun.” Rather than
suffer another Pearl Harbor, one side
would be tempted to strike first.

Counter-force targeting also forces
each side to adopt a policy of “launch-on-
warning:” each side will launch missles
as soon as they notice the other side has
attacked so they can “get the rotations out
before the first strike hits.”

This policy dangerously increases the
possibility of accidental nuclear war,
since either side could falsely assume the
other was attacking (as, he said, has hap-
pened before).

His fourth argument aganinst the use
of counter-force targeting as a deterrent
concerned our ability to control nuclear
wars. Under counter-force targeting, a
country will try to destroy the other's
political centers in order to keep them
from having control over their weapons.
Also, any strike would create an elec-
tromagnetic wave which would impair
radio communication.

Dr. Henry Shue ‘61

As a result, both sides would be left
without a subtle chain of command.
Once war broke out, they would tend to
go ahead and use their weapons unless
given orders to the contrary.

The fifth argument concerned the re-
cently hypothesized phenomenon of “nu-
clear winter.’ According to this theory, a
nuclear war of sufficient magnitude
would create a cloud that would block the
sun’s rays and lower the temperature of
the earth. The whole world would miss
one season of crops.

Shue concluded that the continuing
use of counter-force as a strategy is mis-
guided. But does this mean we should

Carroll Overton

use counter-value __ targetting?
shouldn't, according to Shue.

If we choose counter-value targetting
as the lesser of two evils, we would be
committing a simple fallacy: if we have
two coices and we see that one is less evil
than the other, this doesn’t mean we
should choose it, since both options
could be unacceptable. Shue offered no
concrete solutions, although he said we
ought to adopt a policy of no first use of
nuclear weapons.

Shue grew up in Stanton, Virgina. He
graduated from Davidson in 1961, com-
pleting majors in philosophy and psy-
chology. While at Davidson, he was
elected to the Omicron Delta Kappa soci-
ety and Phi Beta Kappa. In his senior
year he won the Woodrow Wilson fel-
lowship, the Danforth scholarship, and
the Rhodes Scholarship.

He studied philosophy at Oxford
University and received his Ph.D. from
Stanford. After teaching at UNC-Chapel
Hill and Wellsley College, he moved to
Maryland and established the Center for
Philosophy and Public Policy in 1976.
The Center briefs congressional aids and
congressmen, issues papers and reports,
holds special seminars, and issues a
newsletter. Shue has published a number
of books and articles. His most recent
book is titled Basic Rights: Subsistence
Affluence and U.S. Foreign Policy.

We
