hoe

8 Friday, April 13, 1984/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

The Davidson Relays

Track Squads Place 14th & 6th, Carter Jumps 6’8”

By JEAN WEBB

Last Saturday, Davidson hosted the
annual Davidson Relays track meet.
With 27 teams participating, Davidson
faired poorly in the team standings, the
women placing sixth out of seven teams,

~ the men 14th out of 19. While many
Wildcats placed individually in events,
there were simply not enough Cats to
spread around.

Junior Sarah Patterson placed fourth
in the 5000-meter run with a time of
19:59.5 — a strong finish from a runner
with bronchitis. In the 3000 meters,
junior Susie Dresser took fourth place in
11:34.19. The women’s distance-med-
ley relay composed of senior captain
Sharon Bryant, junior Susie Myers,
sophomore Judy Dalton, and Patterson

finished in third place with a time of
14:19.27. The 880 relay (Dalton,
freshman Laeta Kalogridis, Myers, and
Bryant) placed fifth in 2:01.83, and their
mile relay also took fifth with a time of
4:44. Furthermore, with 19 men’s teams
competing Saturday, some of the women
definitely appeared to be faster off the
track!

Appalachian _—_State’s powerful
women’s team won the met handily, set-
ting new meet records in the 400 inter-
mediate hurdles, 440 relay, 100-meter
dash, spirit-medley relay, mile relay,
and javelin.

For the men’s team, sophomore Jay
Brown placed fourth in the pole vault,
jumping 13 feet. Junior Jeff Carter won
third place in the high jump with his most

impressive jump of the season, 68”.

The men of the 440 relay, sophomore
Eric McClarty, junior Jim Walker,
Brown, and senior Paul Fry, ran a speedy
00:44.34, but it only brought them a
sixth-place finish. The men’s 880 relay
finished third (lost) with 1:31.93.

In the 10,000-meter run senior David
Teer boasted a personal best time of
36:10, bettering his other runs by over a
minute-and-a-half. For Teer, the other
10,000-meter runners’ competition was
too fierce for him to place. Brevard Col-
lege’s Alphonse Swai, member of his
African Olympic team, led the way with
a time of 30:19.57.

Western Carolina beat the other
men’s team by a huge margin, setting a
new meet record in the 440 relay.

Runners sprint at the gun in last Saturday’s relays.

Jane Campbell

Jeff Carter.

Cats Drop Double Header To The Citadel

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson lost a double header to The
Citadel last Saturday but bounced back
on Sunday to avoid'a sweep. The series
left Davidson 9— 12-1 for the season, and
4-8 in the conference.

The first game got off to a poor start
for the Cats as the Citadel scored eight
runs in the first inning. Solid hitting by
The Citadel and some Davidson errors
made these runs possible. The fact that
the first four runs came on a grand slam
only made things worse for the Cats.

Freshman starter Billy Waitsman
pitched only two-thirds of an inning be-
fore being replaced by freshman Steve
Condon. Waitsman, who is participating
in both spring football and baseball, had
attended football practice the day before,
which may have been a contributing fac-
tor in his short performance.

Condon gave a fine display of relief:

pitching expertise. He struck. out six of |
the first seven batters he faced, including '

sd *

the first four. “Everything felt great,”
Condon said. “I wish all my outings went
that well.”

While Condon was stifling The
Citadel, Davidson was fighting its way
back into the game. Singles by sopho-
more Keith Helfant and freshman Dave
Turgeon, and a walk by sophomore Tim
Waters, set up a grand-slam by freshman
Dave Kirby, making the score 84. _

The Citadel scored two runs in the top
of the fourth to take a 10-4 lead. How-
ever, Turgeon responded with a home
run in the bottom half of the inning to pull
Davidson within five. Turgeon leads the
team with six homers this year.

The rest of the game consisted of
Davidson being nickled and dimed to
death by The Citadel, finally losing 14—
6.

Anyone who missed Saturday’s sec-

' ond game missed what was possibly the

sloppiest no-hitter in baseball history.
Unfortunately, Davidson was the victim
instead of the benefactor. The Citadel

Ca a hitr iY

scored steadily through the game to win
an ugly, though convincing, 9-0

“IT couldn’t believe that was a no-hit-
ter,” said Condon. “Victory maybe, no-
hitter, no way.”

“I’ve found no-hitters are more luck
than anything, unless the pitcher really
sticks it to you,” commented Coach Geo-
rge Greer. “Since we got seven walks
and were struck out only three times, I’d
say we didn’t get it stuck to us. We were
hitting the ball. However, we were hit-
ting it right at their fielders.”

The final game started out in an all-
too-familiar way. The Citadel scored
four runs in the first inning and the Cats
were once again behind before they had a
chance to bat. Then sophomore starter
Scott Weaver settled down, pitching
well, and Davidson started hitting.

The first Davidson runs came in the
bottom of the second when freshman
catcher Dan ‘Simonds hit a two-out,
bases-loaded single to score two runs, In

, the next, jnning Davidson scored five __.

a“ Ger «

runs, highlighted by back-to-back dou-
bles by freshmen Dave Depaul and Mark
Thompson.

Davidson scored one run in the fourth
when Turgeon doubled and came home
on Water’s single. Thompson provided
what would turn out to be the winning
runs with a two-run homer in the fifth.
Weaver held off a late Citadel rally to get
his fourth win (as well as his fourth com-
plete game) of the year.

“We started to hit like we can,” said
Simonds. “They helped by fielding like
we had been.”

The series left Davidson in third
place in. the division. Since only two
teams from each division make the
playoffs, Davidson needs to win at least
five of their remaining six conference
games to stand a chance of being in the
playoffs. Since all six are road games,
that may be more than can be asked, The
Cats need some great pitching down the
stretch if post-season play is to become a
reality. a

> gbl he eT DOT EES we De

Jane Campbell

Jane Campbell
