THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIll, Number 22

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 13, 1984

Ninth District congressional candidates addressed world hunger at
last Wednesday's Open Luncheon. Here, Susan Green makes a point
as D. G. Martin, Ben Tison, Carl Horn, and Alex MacMillan (not pic-
tured) listen.

New Bank Opens In
Downtown Davidson

DAVID VAN PELT

United Carolina Bank will celebrate
its grand opening on Tuesday, April 24
with a free barbecue on the village green.
Several other promotions will be offered
between April 24 and early May, includ-
ing door prizes, free painters caps for stu-
dents, and keys mailed to students.
Those keys which open a refrigerator in
the bank office will receive a package of
free steaks.

The full-service branch opened Mon-
day at the corner of Depot and Main
streets, across from the post office.

The bank’s current location 1s a tem-
porary one, according to branch manager
Bill Bradford. The comapany purchased
the building directly behind the one it
now occupies, and has begun prelimi-
nary studies to determine how it will be
used. Bradford estimates that in one or

two years United Carolina will have a

“significant banking house here in
Davidson.” But he said, “we don’t know
exactly what form it’s going to take.”
United Carolina leases the building it
currently occupies, with an option to
buy.

United Carolina Bank, with assets of
over 2.1 billion dollars, has its headquar-
ters in Whiteville, North Carolina, and
over 90 branches in 53 communities in
North Carolina. According to Bradford,
90 percent of Uniteds Carolina’s offices
are located in small communities. “One
reason we feel like we’re a good match
for Davidson is that United Carolina
specializes in community banking,” he
said. “We're eager to serve students with
their banking needs.” Bradford des-
cribed United Carolina’s handiness and

(continued on page 4)

Fraternities Escape Zoning Change Temporarily

By ROSS HOLT
Contrary to the expectations of a
group of town residents and some town
officials, a proposed deletion from the
Town of Davidson zoning ordinances
will not directly affect either PhiGamma
Delta or Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities.
According to Town Attorney Richard
Kline, neither off-campus house oper-
ates under the section of the ordinances
in question.
The Zoning Rules
If passed by the Town Council, the
proposal will delete a section of the ordi-
nances which allows fraternities to exist
in residential areas. It will also allow no
special use permits to be granted to frat-
ernal organizations. Special Use permits
are necessary if a property's use does not

No action contemplated would directly affect

either fraternity.

— Town Attorney Richard Kline

conform to the use for which it is zoned.
Both fraternities exist in areas zoned for
residential use.

Whether the Council passes the pro-
posal or not, however, both Fiji and SPE
will face a review of their non-conform-
ing status by the town Board of Adjust-
ment. The Adjustors could deny it.
Should the Board discontinue the non-
conforming status, under the present or-

. dinances the fraternities would be al-

lowed to apply for a special use permit.
If the proposal now under considera-

tion is passed, a vote to end the frater-
nities’ non-conforming status by the Ad-
justors would mean that each fraternity
would have a brief grace period to con-
form to the single-family residential zon-
ing, Or cease to use the property.

Kline emphasized, though, that the
review procedure will be a separate mat-
ter entirely from the proposed deletion
from the ordinances. That action, he
said, could not be enforced retroactively.

Apparently, few of those involved
were aware of the fact that the deletion

Investor Plans Griffith Street Hotel

By DAVID VAN PELT

The results of a motel feasibility
study look promising for a New York in-
vestor who is interested in locating sucha
facility on College-owned property.

According to Davidson College
Business Manager Robert Currie, the in-
vestor is interested in a five-acre site on
Griffith Street next to the I-77 inter-
change, property the College has owned
for 12 years. If the project is developed,
the College plans to lease the property on
a plan not yet negotiated, he said.

The project is “the first real offer for a
full-service inn that we’ve had,” Currie
said. Past proposals stipulated that the
College underwrite possible losses.
Davidson will not underwrite this pro-
ject, or invest in it in any way.

Currie did not reveal the name of the
investor except to say he is a New York
businessman with investments in North
Carolina, including a company in
Mooresville. He first made inquiries
about the site last fall, after looking at
various possible locations in this area.

In late February, the College gave the
investor 90 days to complete a feasibility
study of the property and negotiate a
leasing agreement for the land. The
study, according to Currie, has so far in-
dicated that there would be sufficient oc-
cupants to make a motel feasible. Currie
said he is optimistic about the prelimi-
nary findings.”

Currie’ said a motel in the proposed
location would benefit the college in two
ways. First, it would provide handy

lodging and dining facilities for visitors
to Davidson. Second, he said an attrac-
tive motel next to the I-77 interchange
“helps set the tone for the entrance” into
the college community, “instead of a
glue factory or a truck factory.”
According to Currie, the investor has
agreed to several guidelines for the pro-
posed motel. If constructed, the motel
will have at least 75 rooms, and will be a
full-service inn, offering food and lodg-
ing. “I’m sure they would need all five
acres for immediate and future expan-
sion,” he said. The corporate chain to be
affiliated with the motel has yet to be de-
cided. “That will be partly determined by
his connections, and partly by the feasi-
bility study,” Currie said the investor has

(Continued on page 4)

did not directly involve the fraternities
until Kline brought it up at a public hear-
ing last Tuesday, to which fraternity rep-
resentatives had been invited. “I didn’t
really understand that until the meeting,”
said Fiji President Marshall Johnston. “I
don’t think anybody really did,” he
added.

Town Mayor Nancy McCormac told
The Davidsonian \ast month if the resolu-
tion were passed, “there would be no
question as to the continuance of the
fraternities.”

At the hearing, Council member and
economics Professor Randy Kincaid said
he was under the impression that if the
proposal passed, the fraternities’ only al-
ternative would be'to move on campus.

(continued on page 4)

Inside This Week

‘Bluestone: Economist urges a
type of planned economy. Page 3.

‘Gourmet: The gastronomic de-
lights of the Davidson Dining Service.
Page 5.

‘Relays: Cats find success in
weekend events. Page 8.

‘Proposals: The BSC offers sub-
stantive proposals to help solve the
race problem at Davidson. Page 1! 1.

‘Humor: Noted musician finds
solace in an Asheville newspaper. Free
‘black armbands, too— see the Calen-.

