4 Friday, October 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

Faculty To Consider Plans For Rusk Program

funding from the Rusk endowment.

The second term would concentrate
on world problems, such as disarmament
and world hunger. Students would write
a research paper during this term. In the
third term, the grant proposal says,
would focus on the history, culture, and
political economy of a particular area of
the world.

German professor Hansford Epes
will serve as coordinator of the Introduc-
tion to International Studies program.
The program calls for two hours of “con-
tact time” per week; the program would
be worth one course credit.

Incoming freshmen have taken a test
on international knowledge during
freshman orientation for the past two
years. The test has map identifications
and questions about foreign leaders and
economic and political knowledge.

According to the grant proposal, thé
results of the tests have shown a need for
international education and exposure
among freshmen.

“Despite Davidson’s freshmen being

Enthusiasm Wanes For Scholarships,

these schools, Stell said Davidson stu-
dents must exhibit greater willingness to
become aware of and apply for these fel-
lowships and scholarships. Stell also
pointed out that “we need . . . students
who are excited about the world of ideas
and can communicate that excitement.”
What distinguishes fellowship or schol-
arship recipients is “the caring spark” —
they “make ideas their own,” he said.

(continued

President Jogn Kuydendall listens to a speech by Ambassador Jack

from page !)

Perry in an Atlanta dinner last week.

among the most highly qualified in the
country,” the proposal says, “the level of
scores reveals disturbing ignorance of in-
ternational facts and events. We under-
stand such ignorance to be common
among entering freshmen. We want to do
something about it.” Presently, incom-
ing freshmen are asked to read a daily
newspaper and a book on world politics

before coming to Davidson.
The 1983 Faculty Report

A report to the faculty, submitted by
the International Education Committee
in November 1983, made several recom-
mendations for the Rusk program in the
areas of faculty, student, and community
support.

For faculty, the report calls for in-

(continued from page !)

The committee attempts to reach stu-
dents with potential to win a fellowship
and encourages them to apply, Stell said.
The top 10 percent of spring-term juniors
receive letters explaining the fellowships
and inviting them to discuss their op-
tions, he said. The response to the letters
has been less than 20 percent, and open
meetings held by the committee have had
little response, he said.

129 WN, Mase Strat

892 - 4080 RR.

Stanley H. Kaplan

The Smart
MOVE!

“WANS

PREPARATION FOR:

4407-21 Providence

Lane

Suite B Sank 4
Winston Salem, NC ie]
27106 KAPL
(919)723-7388 CENTER

Stell feels that the consistently small
pool of applicants in the past few years
may point to “a failure to take seriously
the intellectual life,” he said. Education,
rather than an intellectual pursuit, be-
comes a means to a “certain life-style,”
he said.

Almost any students with the “spark”
and qualifications can find a foundation
whose interests match their own, he said.

Cris Simpson/The Technique

come from the Rusk endowment to sup-

port additional profess, courses, and
programs. It also suggests ts for fac-
ulty study abroad with priority given to
professors with little international ex-
perience.

Student support would include em-
phasis on scholarships for the India and
Spain programs. Also, the Rusk endow-
ment should offer, the report said, grants
for student study abroad during the sum-
mer. “Such grants might contribute both
to the cost of the program and to summer
earnings sacrificed to international
study.” The Rusk program would work
with students with arranging internships
abroad, which “ordinarily” would not
earn course credit. The report recom-
mends that the College maintain a diver-
sity of foreign students on campus.

Community involvement would also
be a goal of the Rusk program. The pro-
gram may include the creation of an In-
ternational House on campus and hold-
ing of “regular festivals with an interna-
tional theme.”

Fellowships

A variety of foundations offer many op-
portunities. In addition to the Rhodes and
Watson, there are the Fulbright, Luce,
Marshall, Melon, Rotary, and the Na-
tional Science Foundation Fellowship,
just to name some that are administered
through Davidson.

Seniors interested in graduate fellow-
ships should contact Stell as soon as pos-
sible.

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF LAW

WILL BE AT DAVIDSON COLLEGE
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1984
FROM 9:00 TO 12:00

Sara Velez, Associate Director of Admissions
Will Be Available To Meet With Students
To Talk About The Law School and Answer

(uestions About Admissions

Call The Careers Office
To Make An Appointment

