Friday , October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

The Godfather. Coppola Immortalizes Mafiosos

By CRAIG DETWEILER

The Godfather — (/972) Starring
Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James
Cann, Robert Duvall, Richard Castel-
lano, John Marley, Diane Keaton, Talia
Shire. Directed by Francis Ford Cop-
pola, ****

“It’s a Man’s, Man’s, Man’s, Man’s
World” according to the Godfather of
Soul (GFOS) James Brown. This week’s
fine pop film, Francis Ford Coppola’s
classic The Godfather affirms Brown’s
musical statement.

The Godfather explores the brother-
hood, sexual frustration, machismo, pa-
tronnage, and violence that dominates
the all-male world of the American
mafia. Through brilliant acting, writing,
and directing, The Godfather transcends
it relational concerns to occupy a seminal
prosition in film history.

Released in 1972, The Godfather
bridged the gap between the blockbuster

$1.50

SAT. NOV. 3rd

TUES. OCT. 30th
Cary Grant & Ingrid Bergman

NOTORIOUS

WED. OCT. 31st

THURS. NOV. 1st

Gregory Peck & Ingrid Bergman
SPELLBOUND

Jimmy Stewart & Grace Kelly
REAR WINDOW

epics of the ’60s and the human dramas
of the 80s. Combining commercial and
critical success, Coppola’s breakthrough
film exists as the last great, entertaining
epic. Following long, expensive ex-
travaganzas like Dr. Zhivago and Lawr-
ence of Arabia, The Godfather manages
to enthrall the viewer for nearly three
marvelous hours.

Hollywood has failed in attempts to
recreate the fun and fine epic film. La-
mentable efforts include Reds (not fun),
King Kong (not fine), and Heaven’ s Gate
(neither fun nor fine). Even Gandi neg-
lected the flavor and flair necessary to
keep the viewer’s attention during a
marathon movie — it worked more like a
documentary than a commercial enter-
tainment. The Godfather serves as the
culmination of the broad, box-office
blockbusting, Hollywood epic.

It also telegraphed the ’80s trend to-
ward human drama. The complex,

AITCHCOCK FILM FESTIVAL
8 p.m. Nightly

MON. OCT. 29th

Lawrence Olivier & Joan Fontaigne

REBECCA

Tony Perkins
PSYCHO

highly developed relationships displayed
in Coppola’s work prefigure the familial
concerns of Ordinary People, Kramer
vs. Kramer, and Terms of Endearment.
The tension and love exchanged by Don
Corleone, Michael, and Sonny should
not be diminished by their context within
the mafia. The Godfather suggests that
mafiosos are people too, who celebrate
marriages, pass on the family business,
and look out for each other.

Relationships dominate the storyline
that details the transferral of power from
the aging Don Corleone -to his sons,
Michael and Sonny. Coppola allows an
open view into the Corleone family.
Sharing in Sonny’s wedding, Don Vito's
closed door decisions, and the family’s
“hits,” the viewer becomes absorbed in
the mafia environment.

Questions are never raised about jus-
tification of mob violence and abuse.
The audience sympathizes with a pat-

riarch trying to hold a family together.
The shifting loyalties and emotions of
Don Corleone steer his family (both per-
sonal and financial) through turbulent
situations. Coppola hooks the involved
audience in the rocky scenes of Sonny's
death, the horse’s head, Don Vito and his
grandson, and the spaghetti supper mas-
sacre. The viewer becomes a member of
the family experiencing the pain, the
love, and the fulfillment shared by the
Corleones.

The Godfather supersedes normal
gangster films because of superb script-
ing, acting, and directing. Author Mario
Puzo collaborated with Coppola in their
Academy Award winning script. The
selective scenes from the novel are writ-
ten for full Gramatic impact. A superstar
cast animates the screenplay. Marlon
Brando gives a powerhouse performance
of depth, eccentricity, and realism.

To protray the mumbling Don,
Brando actually placed cotton balls in his
cheeks. Admiring his talent in The God-
father heightens the disappointment of
his subsequent career. The box-office re-
ceipt records broken by The Godfather
propelled Al Pacino and James Caan to
big-buck, superstar status. Caan’s
macho, hotheaded Sonny appears fiery
and fresh.

As Micheal Corleone, heir apparent
to Don Vito, Al Pacino creates a sensi-
tive, intense character that commands
audience sympathy. Robert Duvall's
work as the adopted son Tom provides a
preview of his outstading supporting
roles that followed The Godfather.

Credit can be accorded to the casting
agent for assembling an impressive, be-
lievable assortment of mafiosos. The en-
semble looks, speaks, and feels Italian.

Highest kudos, though, go to Francis
Ford Coppola: for his direction and vi-
sion. His firm grasp of personal expres-
sion and public fascination forged The
Godfather into its elevated, popular
form. From his two godfather projects.
Coppola could make a claim to be the di-
rector of the last quarter of this century.
Coppola's subsequent films, The Con-
versation, Apocalypse Now, and Places
of the Heart unfortunately reveal an artist
overexpressing himself. In The God-
father Coppola and his cast balance the
creative intensity and objective control
needed to produce enduring films.

Dan Moldea’s: recent Union lecture
on mob activities in America
documented the mafia’s endurance.
Coppola's motion picture protrays a fam-
ily in such a poignant, popular, and pow-
erful way that the mafia will always re-
main immortal on the screen.

The Davidsonian
now has paid
business and
advertising
positions
available part time

Call 892-2000
ext. 148

