Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

RTS& ENTERTAINMENT

Scenes And Relevations Explores Independence

By ROSS HOLT

Davidson's first major theatrical production to fea-
ture women in all lead parts will open next Thursday
evening. The play, Scenes and Revelations by Elan
Garoznik, concerns the relationships between four sis-
ters during the 1890’s and their struggle for indepen-
dence in a male-dominated world.

According to theatre Professor Rupert Barber, the
play’s director, the sisters desire to be a part of Ameri-
ca’s migration west, but must accomplish it through a
male husband-figure. “It’s frightening to think of the
parallels that exist today,” said Barber.

Senior Stephanie Moffett, who plays Millie, one of
the sisters, said the play also depicted “how timeless
confrontations are within a family, that a family is a
lifetime pact.”

The play unfolds through flashbacks showing vari-
ous stages in the sisters’ lives. Barber said he sees it ‘‘al-
most as jumbled pieces of a mosaic that gradually form a
picture.” Most of the action, he said, takes place in Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania, although other parts of the mosaic
are set in Manchester, England and in Nebraska.

Because of the impressionistic nature of the action,
the cast rehearsed scenes for two weeks in chronological
order, rather than in the order the scenes occur in the
script. This, said sophomore Mary Hill, who plays the
youngest sister Rebecca, allowed cast members to better
develop their characters.

Barber said he encouraged Moffett, Hill, senior
Karen Baldwin, and senior Suzann Smith, the four sis-
ters, to do things together outside rehearsal as well as in
rehearsal to develop the ensemble necessary to play sis-

Carroll Overton

om

Karen Baldwin, Suzanne Simth, Stephanie Moffett, and Mary Hill re-
hearse a scene from Scenes and Revelations

ters. Baldwin said the group had engaged in various ac-
tivities, including giving two other cast members a sur-
prise party and visiting Victorian homes in Charlotte.
Originally, the script called for a single male cast
member to play each sister’s lover. Barber opted to cast
the lovers as four different male roles. According to cast
member John Toler, reviews of the play’s New York
production said the original casting did not work. It
made the play “degrading to the male sex,” Toler said.
Rusk Scholar Tom Giles, who plays Uncle Jacob 1 in
the production, said Barber was “going all out for per-
fection.” Though he has performed in plays in the past,
he said he had “never done a production where its been

19 66

so intensely rehearsed.” “I respect that,” he added.

The production, designed by theatre Professor Joe
Gardner, will take place on a raked stage — one angled
toward the audience. The theatre department also ac-
quired ten new lights for the show, made possible in part
by the recent independent production of Butterflies Are
Free.

Performances are scheduled for next Thursday (stu-
dent opening), Friday, and Saturday, and on May 3, 4,
‘and-5. All performances begin at 8 p.m., except the May
3 show, which starts at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are on sale
through the theatre department box office 2-5 p.m.

weekdays.

Anderson Scott’s Lenses See What Others Miss

A reproduction of Anderson Scott's “Evening Cotton Seed Silos”

By DR. FRANK BLISS
Special to The Davidsonian
Anderson Scott is a remarkably talented young
photographer: he has an abundance of native ability and
“he cultivates it in his work: Currently that work is in
cqlor, and he makes his own prints.

Those of us-who were fortunate enough to see his” ”

show last December at the Copeland Gallery will re-
member his tranquil photographs (reminiscent of poetic
photographs of Eliot Porter) of natural scenes and of de-
tails within those scenes. (If you missed the show, you
can see several of the framed prints now for sale at | Cope-
land House.) '

~' ” “Inthe show now in the Union Gallery. Scott’ s tatent

a»

for architectural photography and his strong sense of
place are revealed. One’s first impression of these prints
is of dark intensity, suggesting a kind of solid unwilling-
ness to look aside or to compromise. The prints haul
your eyelids up and make you look closely: and they
show you things you don’t expect. Isn't that what all
good photographers do — help people see for them-
selves things they might not otherwise be able to see at
all, much less to see well?

Scott does see well, and he sees things that many of
us would miss seeing for ourselves. He usually photo-
graphs close up; photography is essentially a close-up
art. We see parts of structures decisively separated
from the whole, and boldly framed. We see the curtained

‘window of a room added on to a house; a part of a trailer:
a gable; a porch; a turret. The colors are rich and dark, so
dark that it takes an effort, sometimes, to perceive that
light is surprisingly crucial in every print.

Anderson rigorously excludes human beings from
his scenes. In many of them there is an air of expectancy.
as if someone might be about to appear. But the photo-
grapher seems to have been completely alone. Thinking
about that, | remembered William Butler Yeats’ obser-
vation that art is the social act of a solitary person. and
somehow it seemed appropriate.

The series of prints Anderson calls “Cross Gardens”
is a striking illustration of his ability to see in his own
way and to create the intensity. Each of the three prints is
a kind of visual synedoche, a part of a way of life. a par-
ticular culture, suggesting the whole. “Evening Cotton
Seed Silos,” on the other hand, is more abstract, more
concerned with pattern and repetition and less\localized.
“Rusted Trailer” is even more abstract, a delightful tex-
ture of colors. Each print has something special about it.

; and all are characteristically Scott's: they’ have a
