6 Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian

Adjusters Deny SPE’s Use Of Main Street House

continued from page |

uses of property which do not conform to
the purpose for which that property is
zoned. The section of North Main Street
containing the SPE house is zoned for re-
sidential use, not for use by fraternities. -
5-E gives the adjustors three criteria to
use:
- the nonconforming use is not detrimen-
tal to the health or safety of the inhabit-
ants, neighbors, or general public.
- the use does not reduce neighborhood
property values, or affect the use of
neighboring properties;
- the use does not ‘substantially differ
from the use for which the area is zoned.
An unfavorable decision on any one
of the criteria would deny any extension.

Currie said the adjustors found SPE
in violation of all three criteria. He said
health of residents due to sleep loss
caused by traffic and noise concerned the

adjustors; property values of adjoining
land were reduced; and the use differed
substantially enough to warrant denying
an extension.

The adjustors took into account con-
tentions by SPE that special situations
like the fraternity’s were common in
most college towns, and that the frater-
nity house was not in year round, Curry
said.

SPE requested a hearing by the Board
of Adjustment in April, according to
board chairperson Bob Currie. The Ad-
justers realized then that the use of the
Main Street residence as a fraternity
house violated a 1976 zoning ordinance.
Though a grandfather clause in that rule
allowed the fraternity to remain, the
clause expired in 1981.

The ordimance required SPE to give
up the house or request an extension of

The Sigma Phi Epsilon house ™

Eyes Patterson Court

continued from page |

SPE

system, according to MacMillan.
“We're pleased with they way Patterson
Court is operating now,” he said. The
fraternity moved off campus in 1971
with the advent of self-selection. The
SPE national organization then required
all chapters to maintain a selective mem-
bership policy. Over the years, however,
the national organization has come to
allow each chapter to operate in a way
compatible with the guidelines of each
particular college, MacMillan said.
Dean of Students Will Terry said he
had talked informally with MacMillan

and a member of the SPE alumni board to
arrange guidelines for the fraternity’s re-
turn to campus. Terry said he had asked
MacMillan for a written request outlin-
ing “how they're going to conduct their
program here.”

Terry said he will forward that re-
quest to the Council on Campus and Re-
ligious Life (CCRL). The CCRL would
review it and make a recommendation to
President John Kuykendall, who would
make the final decision, according to
Terry.

Athletic Director

continued from page |

John Kuykendall, said the director will
also be extensively involved with fun-
draising for the athletic program. He will
also need to be “sensitive to the operation
of athletics.” Love added that it is “‘suc-
cess that is important — winning is not
the primary objective.” Both Stroud and
Love concurred that Coach Farrel had
held two positions that were simply too
much for any one individual.

When asked if he considered remain-
ing full-time director, Farrell replied,
“No. Coaching is my first love. I have
not had, nor do I have any intentions of
becoming an A.D.” He said that at age
50, “if I have not done it by now [become
an A.D.], I don’t really foresee it in my
future.”

Both the Richmond News Leader and
The Charlotte Observer reported that
Terry Holland ’59, once head basketball

coach here, and the preserit coach of tlic

University of Virginia’s team, had de-
clined Davidson’s offer to become athle-
tic director. Holland stated in the News
Leader article-(Sept. 7, 1984) that as
coach at Davidson he had indeed sought
such a position. Now, however, he said,
“I know it [becoming an A.D.] seems
like the next logical step, but this is so
hard to think about right now.” Stroud
felt that it was inappropriate to comment
on who the committee was considering
for the position.

The Observer reported that Kuyken-
dall, a classmate of Holland’s, had asked
him to take the position.

Stroud and Love denied that David-
son offered the position to Holland.

Kuykendall said no one has been of-
fered the position, and said he has talked
with Holland in the past concerning ath-
letics here, but did not offer him the posi-

tion of athletic diréctor. a

Peggy Pierotti

the grandfather clause by the Adjustors.
SPE did not request a hearing, but the
town took no action, Currie said.

Last March, however, North Main
Street residents asked the town Planning
Board to deny fraternal organizations the
right to use houses in residential areas.
Town attorney Richard Kline said the ad-

justors found the Fiji house to fall under a
different section of the ordinance. The .
Beaty Street building was built as a
fraternity house, and the adjustors said it
should be allowed to remain in use, Kline
said.

Kline said the town plans no further
action affecting the Fiji’s.

New Professors Arrive

This article is the first in a series on
Davidson’s new professors.

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

One of the new professors at David-
son this year is a familiar face in the com-
munity. Mrs. Rosemary Raynal has lived
in Davidson for the past five years. She
may look familiar to many students be-
cause she is the wife of Charles Raynal,
the minister at Davidson College Pre-
sbyterian Church.

Mrs. Raynal began teaching here as a
part of the freshmen writing task force.

She teaches a section of English 21, En-

glish Composition. Mrs. Raynal is from
Elkin, N.C. and received her B. A.
from the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro. She received her M. A. in
English from Southeastern Louisiana
University.

She has extensive teaching experi-
ence. She taught high school English for
one year in Ashland, Va., and then for
three years in New Haven, Ct. She taught
writing at Southeastern Louisiana for
five years and then moved to Davidson.
After teaching writing and humanities at
Central Piedmont Community College in
Charlotte for five years, Mrs. Raynal
joined the faculty here.

Aside from spending time with her
husband and their two children and

He’s a failed writer who has
given up on his life.

teaching, Mrs. Raynal has other inter-
ests. A hobby of hers is splitting oak trees
and making them into baskets. She also
enjoys cooking and reading.

Professor Richard Neidinger

The new professor in the Mathema-
tics department this year is Dr. Richard
Neidinger. Neidinger is originally from
St. Louis, but he received his under-
graduate degree in math and physics
from Trinity University in San Antonio,
Tx. He earned his M. A. and Ph. D. in
math from the University of Texas at Au-
stin.

Neidinger came to Davidson because
of his desire to teach at a school with high
academic standards that equally supports
teaching and research. He and his wife
Barbara, aC. P. A. at Emst & Whinney,
decided they would prefer to live south of
the North Carolina- Virginia border.

After adjusting from big-city living
in Austin, Neidinger has found Davidson
to be a “beautiful community,” and he
“likes the personal atmosphere.” He
finds the honor code especially appealing
after coming from a school without one.

“You feel you can trust everyone
more. I really believe in it,” he said.

Neidinger’s personal interests in-
clude racketball and sailing. He and his
wife are active Presbyterians and plan to
attend Davidson College Presbyterian
Church.

She's determined to change hers

by getting an education.

And the more she loves to learn.

The more he learns how to love.

er f

SP ay Wee e=

y— LE j ae ban Zz Gee os;
Sometimes students end up f being the best teachers.

COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents
AN ACORN PICTURES Production A LEWIS GILBERT Film

MICHAEL CAINE * JULIE WALTERS

“EDUCATING RITA’
Music by DAVID HENTSCHEL Music Produced by JOHN GILBERT
Co-Produced by WILLIAM P CARTLIDGE Screenplay by WILLY RUSSELL
Produced and Directed by LEWIS GILBERT ill
Sees 19983 COL U@eHA PICTURES OUSTNES mC

LF fa a

