8 Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Football Team To Face Bucknell Tomorrow

By SCOTT HUIE

When you're 0-for-1984 in terms of
football triumphs, finger-pointing be-
comes about as useful as an air con-
ditioner in the Artic Circle. But there
does seem to be a common denominator
behind every Wildcat loss this year, one
which really became apparent in last
Saturday's 28-7 loss to James Madison
— failure at the kicking game.

Against four of their first five oppo-
nents — Western Carolina, Guilford,
Newberry, and Pennsylvania — David-
son had given up the big play through the
generosity of those crucial special teams.
Usually it was a long punt return, though
sometimes it was a blocked punt or a long
kickoff return.

Whatever the case, last Saturday’s
kicking game blunders probably equal-
led all those of the previous five games.

Soccer Bows
To Georgia

And Clemson

By BOYD BLACKBURN

This week, the soccer team suffered
losses to Georgia State and Clemson.
Both games were played away against
teams ranked in the Southern Top 10.

Against Georgia State last Sunday,
the team was a little off after an 11-day
lay off. Many of their shots were just
missing. Coach Charlie Slagle had

scheduled Hampden-Sydney last Friday
as a prep for Sunday’s tougher team.
However, due to a scheduling mixup the
game never materialized.

In Atlanta, Georgia State scored after
stealing the ball from our fullbacks to
take a 1-0 lead at halftime.

Six or seven minutes into the second
half, Georgia State forward Doug Year-
wood scored on a 35-yard shot that dip-
ped over goalie Jim Kelly's head and into
the goal.

The Wildcats outshot their opponent
by 20-14 but were plagued again by a
lack of scoring. The final score was 2-
0.

Davidson travelled to Clemson Tues-
day night to face one of their toughest op-
ponents this season. Over the past 15
years, Clemson has typically been the
best team in the South.

The Cats played well in the first half
creating several opportunities for them-
selves and containing the Clemson for-
wards. However, with 10 minutes left in
the half Clemson scored on a well-execu-
ted corner kick. .

In the second half, Clemson asserted
themselves as the superior team. A score
early in the half broke the game open.
Clemson went on to score another goal to
make the final score 3-0.

Although Davidson’s record is now
at 5-7-1, this season is still an open
book. The four conference games left,
starting with Marshall Saturday at 10
a.m., will determine the success of this
season. Winning all four games would
mean a winning season, winning the
Northern division of the Southern Con-
ference, and a spot in the Southern Con-
ference Championship.

In fact, they were responsible for 25 of

the Dukes’ 28 points.

Two Davidson punts were blocked.
The first was returned 45 yards fora JMU
touchdown. Another was blocked and re-

covered on the Davidson 3, which led to
another Dukes touchdown.

When the Cats were able to punt,

they got burned on the return. JMU total-
led 116 yards in punt returns. One was
45yards,
touchdown. Another was returned 29
yards, which set up a 41-yard field goal.

which set up their first

“The kicking game was a real disap-

pointment,” said Coach Ed Farrell. “It’s
mental breakdowns and little fundamen-
tal mistakes, not just one thing that we
can pinpoint easily. Believe it or not, we
spend a lot of time at the kicking game in

practice, but it’s too risky to do it live that
much in practice. We’ve got six or seven

of our starters on the kicking game and

can’t afford to lose any of them.”

If the special teams played poorly,
then the offense was not far behind. The
Dukes have been notorious this year for
their defensive vulnerabilities, yielding
31 points a game, but Davidson could

muster only 105 yards total offense.
Only 31 came on the ground, and the ae-
rial attack produced four interceptions.
Maybe the offense should treat the
defense to steaks at Quincy’s since it was
the defenders who played well and even
scored the Cats’ only touchdown. Mid-
way through the first quarter, junior free
safety Doug Neil picked off a JMU pass
and scampered 31 yards for the score. In
perhaps the best defensive performance
of the year, sophomore strong safety
Gary Stewart recorded 14 tackles, seven
of which were solos, recovered a fumble,

and sacked the JMU quarterback three

times.

The good news about tomorrow’s op-
ponent, Bucknell (3-3), is that they are
the Cat’s first foe this year not to have a
winning record. The bad news is a mere

15 yards separates the Bisons from a per-
fect record. They lost twice by a point
when their last minute two-point conver-
sion passes fell incomplete. And in a six-
point loss to Princeton, they fumbled on
the opponent’s 9-yard line in the final mi-

nutes.

The game will be a battle of the funky

offenses, as Bucknell also runs from the

Wing-T. At the hub of the Bisons’ ver-
sion is a potential All-America quarter-

back, Bob Gibbon.

The Bisons have defeated Davidson

three years in a row, including last year’s

50-7 blowout.

By DAVID McGEE

Everyone has a_ hobby, right?
Well, one of my favorites is fly fish-
ing.

I know most everyone has been
fishing the regular way. You know,
sitting in the sun waiting to change the
bait on the hook, the thing that’s sup-
posed to catch fish.

Well, listen up, fly fishing is not
the same. There’s little sitting, or sun,
and you use artificial flies (sono yucky
playing with worms). Still interested?

According to English Professor
Frank Bliss, an ace fly fisherman,
catching fish makes up only a small
part of the sport. “I like reading about
trout fishing and tying my own flies,”
he said. Besides, any fly fisherman
hell bent on filling a creel with fish be.
fore sundown can’t ignore the beauti-
ful mountain scenery that surrounds
trout streams.

Rhododendron and poplars
abound, and it’s not rare that deer or
racoons visit the stream while you’re
fishing.

For those who like a good combi-
nation of luck and skill, fly fishing
could be your kettle of fish (Bad pun, I
know). Anyway, a fly fisherman th-
rives on hand-eye coordination.
There’s a difference between a stream
10 feet wide and a 10-acre lake when
one goes to cast a fishing line.

In lake fishing, if you’re a few feet
off where you wanted to cast, so what.
Well, in fly fishing, a few feet off the
mark, and, half your line now deco-
rates some tree limb like Christmas tin-
sel. The iron law of fly fishing: the
time spent untangling the line from
foliage varies between one third and
one half of the total time spent fishing.

So practice up out on Chambers
lawn before heading to the streams.
Let me add a little more about casting:
it’s the fly fisherman's backbone.

Instead of letting out the line auto-
matically, a fly-fishing reel holds the
wound-up line, and, while casting,
you pull out the line little by little. At
the same time, with the other hand,
you jerk the rod back and forth, sort of
like a whip. The line is carried out by
its own weight.

Dr. Frank Bliss demonstrates fly fishin

The result: you get closer with each
cast to where you want the fly to land
in the water.

Now, about the bait. Fly-fishing
bait is all artificial and looks like flies,
or other insects, that fish eat. Every
fisherman has his own favorite fly; I
like to experiment with different
kinds. When buying flies at a sporting
goods store, I ask myself, “were I a
fish, would I like this clump of thread
and feathers rapped around a hook for
lunch?”

Flies, by the way, are tied to a
“leader,” a thin nylon line that attaches
to the heavier casting line. The idea is
to make the line near the fly invisible
so that the color of the casting line
doesn’t scare the fish. A fly-fishing
proverb says that the difference be-
tween a good leader and a bad one

shows in how well the fisherman eats
after a day of fishing. .

You've chosen your flies, bought a

Fly Fishing Offers ‘Companionship’

y .

9
fishing license, rod, reel, and the Os-
teichthyes are waiting.

But where?

Fortunately, North Carolina has
over 1,700 miles of trout streams.
Most are located in state and national
parks. A place I recommend is Stone
Mountain State Park. Stone Mountain
is a 40-minute drive away north on'In-
terstate-77, off of Highway 21 (by-
pass) north. The turn for the park is
marked on Highway 21.

If you go, inquire at the park office
where the best fishing spots are.
Should you care to know where the
best fishing really is in the park, well
that’s my secret.

Bliss summed up the essence of fly
fishing, saying the enjoyment lies in
the “companionship and conversation”
the sport engenders between friends.
The joys of standing knee-deep in na-
ture for a few hours somehow makes
up for the “one that got away.”

David McGee

