Friday, November 2, 1984/The Davidsonian, 3

Race Task Force Working Toward Nov. Deadline

By ALLISON WILLS

The Racial/Ethnic Concerns Task
Force appointed by President John
Kuykendall is progressing on schedule
and plans to submit its report by Nov. 30.
Created by Kuykendall to “respond
adequately to the concerns which have
been raised,” the committee is critically
studying life at Davdison for black stu-
dents and other minorities.

The task force consists of 20 mem-
bers — five students, four faculty mem-
bers, five administrators, three alumni,
three trustees, and a recorder — with a

SPE Prepares

By TED WILSON

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity is “in
the process of drawing up an agreement
to submit to the college” to move back on
campus, according to SPE President
Steve MacMillan. He emphasized,
“we're still considering other alterna-
tives so the decision to move on campus
is not final.”

The Town Board of Adjustment last
May denied the fraternity special use
zoning, prohibiting it from using its
Main Street house as a fraternity house.
The Board gave SPE until July 1, 1985,
“to convert the house to a residential use
or to vacate the premise.”

MacMillan said “there is a general
feeling to move back on campus,” after
residing off-campus for 13 years. He said
fraternity members are looking at other
options such as relocating in town, and
have looked into several cites. “A final

decision should be made within the next .

month or two,” he said.

Dean of Students Will Terry said if
SPE relocated on campus, “‘it will follow
the same Self-Selection process” as the
other fraternities. Currently, SPE uses a
bid system, not the Self-Selection sys-

“significant representation from racial/
ethnic groups.” Kuykendall appointed
mathematics Professor Bruce Jackson
and Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid John Griffith as co-chairmen.
Kuykendall asked that several members
of the Presidential Advisory Comittee on
Minorities serve on the task force, but
this effort, he said, “should not be under-
stood as a replacement for that group.”
The members: have agreed not to
comment on their proceedings until the
report is distributed Dec. 5, but Griffith
and Jackson — acting as spokesmen for

Campus Move

tem.

Terry said, “my initial response is
that it will [have to] abide by all the rules
of Patterson Court like all other eating
clubs do.” He added, however, “it may
be that the Council on Campus and Re-
ligious Life will make other recommen-
dations” and impose restrictions.

MacMillan said the administration
seems “very positive about the SPE’s
coming back on campus.” The fraternity
has been working with Terry and Presi-
dent John Kuykendall while drawing up
a contract, he said. “We can’t sign a
basic Patterson Court contract because
many of the things don’t apply.” For ex-
ample, MacMillan said, the house will
not serve meals.

Terry said “their return as a fraternity
[that does not serve meals] on campus
will raise for us certain questions about
the future direction of Patterson Court.”

Though ensuing decisions concern-
ing the Court’s composition may not af-
fect SPE, Terry said “their petition to
come back raises questions [such as]
‘How many fraternities do we need on
campus,’ and ‘What can we project will
be the demography of the houses on the
court?’”

the group — said the report will include
the president’s request for “specific ac-
tions and activities to be undertaken by
the College, including suggested goals
and timetables for our efforts.”
Members of the task force have or-
ganized into four subcommittees to ad-
dress particular issues. One subcommit-
tee will deal with Davidson’s past poli-
cies regarding racial problems; one will
study the current racial situation here:
and another will study how other institu-
tions similar to Davidson are handeling
racial concerns. The fourth subcommit-
tee — chaired by Trustee John A.
Mawhinney, Jr. and composed of
Jackson, Griffith, the chairmen of the
other three committees, and the recorder
— will pull the task force’s ideas to-
gether and formulate a policy statement.

Griffith said an outside consultant,
Carol Ramsey, vice-president of A Bet-
ter Chance, Inc., visited here last week.
The organization she represents — made
up around 220 high schools and colleges
across the country — aims at making
educational experiences better for blacks
and other minority students.

The task force has scheduled Dec. 6
to Jan. 31 as a period of feedback which
will include faculty, staff, and student
forums. By late January the final report is
scheduled to be drafted and discussed
with the Trustees.

Students serving on the committee
are SGA president John Laughlin, Black
Student Coalition president senior Janet
Stovall, R.A.C.E. president Andrew
Yon, seniors Atondra Williams and Rod-
ney Holman.

Amnesty International held a vigil yesterday in front of Chambers to
protest the impending execution of Velma Barfield by the State of
North Carolina. Barfield was executed this morning at two a.m. by
means of lethal injection.

Students Nominated For Watson Fellowships

(continued from page !)

for much of their lives.

_ “It's incredibly fascinating to me,”
McDonald said, “that so many musicians
and composers have studied there.”

She said her proposal “basically in-
volves a project to make what I have
studied come alive. I want to be im-
mersed in a city that loves music.”

McDonald hopes to experience Vie-
nna’s “imagination” that other musicians
and composers have felt and responded
to. She said her study would shed light on
her future graduate study and teaching
career. By studying in’ Vienna,
McDonald said, “I could give a student a
first-hand sense of what it could be like to
be Beethoven playing a piece.”

Ginna McGee

While visiting Ireland last year,
McGee developed an interest in religious
pilgrimages. She wants to photograph
pilgrimages in Spain, Portugal, Mexico,
and Guatemala, in addition to shrines
and holy places in those countries.

The religious imagery in the festivals
interests McGee. She also wants to com-
pare the Central American festivals with
those on the Iberian peninsula. The the
native religions of Guatemala and
Mexico, McGee said, have influenced
the festivals there, distinguishing them
from festivals in Spain and Portugal.

Beth Maczka
Maczka feels that in India, there
exists a relationship among women, reli-
gion, and rural development. She wants
to examine the perception of religion

within three women’s communities in
India and determine how an Indian
woman’s community experiences affect
them when they return to their village
and family. One of the communities, a
Hindu spiritual community, atms at ex-
ploring science and spirituality, which it
holds as the two sources of truth.

In addition, Maczka would study an
Indian atheist community for women,
which she said, seeks to realize the po-
tential of the women in the community. It
differs from the Hindu community in that
it encourages atheism, and views reli-
gion as a barrier to development.

“I want to study the ethical implica-
tions of that,” Maczka said.

The third community she would
study resides in the state of Kerala. The
community 1s a Catholic woman’s group
that emphasizes education in developing
Indian women’s potential.

These communities, Maczka said,
are a novelty in India, where women
traditionally function as wives and
mothers and have, as a group, a low liter-
acy rate. Women often suffer from
stereotypes in Indian society, she said,
and that hinders them in realizing poten-
tial.

Improving the position of women,
would enhance the development of the
country as a whole, according to some
theories, she added.

‘A country is only as developed as its
women,” Maczka said.

Sally Howell
Within the Arab-Israeli conflict in the

Middle East, the role of non-Muslim
women is an issue, and Howell would
travel to Egypt, Israel and Syria to study
the changing relationship of non-Muslim
women in their societies.

Islamic law and culture, Howell said,
give women little say in government and
in the home. But non-Muslim women are
gaining ground in areas traditionally con-
trolled by men, she said. In time, “it will
be easier for Muslim women to do the
same,’’ Howell said.

Her study would expand her center
major in Middle East studies, as well as
focus her interests in graduate study or

possible careers in the Foreign Service,
teaching, or working for Arab political
action groups in Washington, D. C.

For Howell, breaking into a foreign
culture and establishing relationships
would remain an obstacle as well as a
goal.

The Watson Foundation seeks fel-
lows at 50 colleges and universities
throughout the United States and has
awarded 1,090 — felloswhips — and
$8,732,634 in grants since its founding
in 1961.

The foundation will announce its
awards March 15, 1985.

Honor Code

(continued from page |)

Stell believes that published deci-
sions would serve the rights of the defen-
dant as well as “forestall groundless
rumors which contain a fantastic variety
of accounts of what the Council has done
and what its reasons were.”

Abbott noted the need for “a clearer
distinction between deliberate intent to
deceive and an accident.” This is perhaps
the greatest area of trepidation on the part
of students. Many echoed the sentiments
of senior Todd Sachtjen: “Always my
feeling when I write a paper is that |
could make an honest mistake and get
kicked out of school.”

Complaints similar to the one voiced
by sophomore Kathleen Micham are pre-

valent. She described an incident this
year in which she wished to enter the
Commons with friends and promised not
to eat, and she was refused. “If they're
going to trust us not to cheat on a test,
they should trust us to go into the Com-
mons and not eat.”

Though students and faculty hold
grievances and anxieties concerning the
Honor Code, their predominant attitude
is one of pride and respect. “It builds a
sense of responsibility on the part of the
student,” Sutton said. “It’s unusual to see
how it works,” freshman David Lett
said. Freshman Kirk Orrell said, “It's the
basis for so much around here that's
good.”
