Friday, April 6, 1984/The Davidsonian 13

Fliers Present Non-Liberal Views

Russell Bitter and
Tony Holt

Fliers and pamphlets on their own are no more than
pieces of paper that serve to relate simplified opinions on
various topics. As the responses in last week’s Davidso-
nian suggested, pamphlets and fliers are provacative in
nature and stimulate discussion on their contents: the nu-
clear weapons issue, the peace movement, and Central
America. The attitudes of the reader toward the literature
depends upon the individual’s pre-established views.
The reader must either accept or reject the arguments, or
seek alternative sources when no conclusions can be
reached.

We feel that the information presented on the
aforementioned topics by the popular media and many
campus activists is rarely objective and frequently
exhibits a liberal bias. With this in mind, we decided that
a distribution of literature would show that there are stu-
dents who hold views alternative to those frequently ex-
pressed by campus activists..We consider ourselves in-
dividuals with initiative, the incentive being provided by
those with whom we do not concur.

Having cleared the air on the “flier-pamphlet di-
lemma” we would like to address separately the contents
of the two responses, “Display of Cowardice” and
“Fliers Constitute Irresponsible Distortion.” The authors

of the former state:

We have no “continuous dialogue with the Soviet leaders.”
Nuclear proliferation is not * and the Soviet
Union is not twice as strong as the United States. Further more,
the fact that we have not yet annihilated ourselves does not
prove that détente works. Look where detente has left us: on

the brink 6f ferthiftating humanity.

This statement takes the form of a pamphlet message in
that it presents opinions on the nuclear weapons issue in
simplified form. It directly addresses the content of our
pamphlet. Our qualm with this statement is not that it op-
poss our views, but that it distorts the message of the
pamphlet and is misleading. The pamphlet stated that we
have a “continuous diplomatic dialogue with the Soviet
leaders,” which is not debatable and is evinced by our
embassy in Moscow and theirs in Washington.

Next, the expensiveness argument is tenuous since
nuclear weapons production consumes less than 3 per-
cent of the total federal budget annually (roughly 10 per-
cent of Department of Defense outlays or 24 billion dol-

“inexpensive,”

lars.) The superior effectiveness of a nuclear weapons
system versus a conventional syustem in preventing ag-
gressive actions need not be expounded further.

We stress, however, that the United States spends
well over one hundred billion dollars annually to main-
tain and man our conventional weapons systems, de-
fense being one of the chief purposes of the Federal gov--
ernment. Also, when we consider the net worth of the:
lives, capital, and freedom that is protected we conclude
that the nuclear deterrent is cost-effective.

Next, our pamphlet. was misquoted as saying the
Soviet Union is twice as strong as the United States.
Weapons strength is difficult to measure due to the qual-
ity element, so our pamphlet relates that the Soviets have
armed forces double the “size” of the American forces.
We grant our critics the benefit of the doubt and call the
two forces equal in strength. Since strength is their con-
cern, a position of nuclear balance is exactly where we
wish to remain with the Soviets. The pamphlet does not
address the issue of détente, which is non-existent today.

RIK RY YW) SGT

N&
Ni
NY:
Nie

LLL

N

It does call for maintaining a balance between East and
West through “‘a mutual, balanced reduction which de-
pends on iron-clad treaties and . .
ing compliance.”

. provisions for verify-

Like gur critics we support an absolute reduction of

nuclear weapons. We differ in that we perceive the at-
tainment of the ideal situation of a world without nuclear
weapons by an approach that is more realistic in nature
and does not compromise security, a mutual balanced re-
duction.

We now direct our attention to the opinion letter,
“Fliers Constitute Irresponsible Distortions” and con-
gratulate the Hunter-Williams duo for their responsible
approach, which attests to their integrity! We extend an
apology to you readers who support peace, which in-
cludes us, since our flier on peace movements has been
misinterpreted as insinuating your involvement with the
Soviet Communist Party. However, we stress that the in-
ference that we are flattering the Soviets for orchestrat-

ing peace movements should not be squeezed out.

The quote in the flier is typical of the Soviet leader-
ship mindset, as Hunter-Williams will agree. When re-
garding Soviet statements refering to peace, a watchful
eye can detect their curious attitude toward peace and
peace groups. Two recent statements by recognizable
Soviet leaders illustrate our point. “An international
peace is one which best allows the realization of the
goals of Communism,” was expressed by Communist
Party Secretary Boris N. Ponomarev in 1975. “The
peace of the world depends on the military readiness and
the military capabilities of the Soviet armed forces.” was
uttered in 1979 by Defense Minister Dmitri Ustinov.

A shadow is cast on the legitimacy and value of the
peace movement by its association with the World Peace
Council (W.P.C.). This organization, which sponsors
peace movements in West, presents a perverted view of
world peace as evidenced by the international events it
chooses to condemn or condone. The condemnation of
Western nuclear weapons deployment and Lech
Walesa’s efforts in Poland, and the condoning of the
Soviet takeover of Afghanistan reveals the W.P.C.’s in-
consistency. The W.P.C. recieves aid from the Soviet
Union. It also remained silent during the Soviet installa-
tion of several hundred SS-20’s. Soviet involvement is
not direct, but it cannot be ignored.

The critique of the Central American flier was less
impressive. East-West relations are partially responsible
for maintaining conflicts in Central America. In this
light, we support aid to Central America to help create

’

‘peace and stability, to rebuild the ruined economies and

restore lost jobs, and to promote democracy and free-
dom. We agree that “the continued use of military aid
and intervention (alone) to resolve complex Central
American conflicts 1s short-sighted dangerous, and sim-
plistic.” Instead, we must support aid, military and espe-
cially economic, which can create the initial conditions
of political stability that are necessary for positive
economic growth to occur, growth in a free society and
mixed economy.

We are pleased our pamphlets and fliers have
reached more students than open-forums could possibly
reach and that this exchange in The Davidsonian has
benefitted the awareness effort. We hope we have ex-
cited a nerve in our readers that will lead them to discuss
and attend discussions on these and other topics.

Bitter iy a freshman from Edna, TX, and a member of
the Coalition on Central America and Davidson College
Republicans. Holt is a junior economics major from
Burlington, NC and is chairman of College Republi-
cans.

‘Why Are We Fighting?’

Bull Harmon

In the film Gimme Shelter, Mick Jagger ot the Rol-
ling Stones asks one of the most relevant questions of our
time: “People, why are we fighting?” The crowd shown
in the film doesn’t answer Mick, and so we're left won-
dering how to respond to the question.

Recent political events, both on the Davidson cam-
pus and in the outside world, have led me to wonder once
again why we’re fighting. In short, election year is upon
us again. I’m already tired of the bickering, mudslinging
and distortions accompanying the campaigns of 1984,
and there’s more to come. Let me describe two current
political controversies and tell why they bother me.

Here at Davidson, the questions have been raised
against politically conservative pamphlets and fliers that
have been distributed “anonymously.” (As if we didn’t
know who the culprit was!) The literature in question im-
plies that today’s Western peace movements started in
Moscow, and that a nuclear freeze would be dangerous

to the cause of world peace. I find a small grain of truth
in both of these claims, but I resent the way in which dis-
tortions and guilt by assoctfation are used to promote
these claims.

What particularly gets me is the undocumented
claim — within a pamphlet which preaches that deterr-
ence as a policy has been “100 percent successful” dur-
ing the past 37 years — that the Soviet Union’s ‘‘armed
forces . . . are now more than double the size of the
American forces.” This statement leaves me puzzled:
How can we deter such a mighty enemy? Oh, well.

The guy who distributed the pamphlets and fliers
explained to me earlier this year that he had put up simi-
lar material — a sarcastic “endorsement” of Walter
Mondale — in order to stimulate discussion on the cam-
pus. I feel that his pamphlets and fliers have bred more
resentment and polarization than rational discussion,
though. This is one reason why I find the material, which
many people ignored, offensive.

My friend and I haven't fought much about his pam-
phlets, but let’s take a look at a case in which things have
gotten a little out of hand: the battle between Gary Hart
and Walter Mondale. Recent reports have indicated that

the two former friends now dislike each other, which is a
shame for both social and political reasons. The fact that
two popular, influential men with almost similar politi-
cal views are fighting over, uh, politics says a lot about
our society. Perhaps the good guys should follow the Re-
publicans’ example and obey the | 1th Commandment of
politics: “Thou shalt not speak bad of a fellow party
member.” But I doubt they will.

So we're left with a childish fight between two presi-
dential candidates and-a small ruckus over pamphlets
and fliers. Regardless of who is at fault in these two con-
troversies, I find the fighting in both cases to be
symptomatic of our approach to larger, more important
conflicts in the world. Stupid attacks between members
of competing groups lead to resentment and fighting,
which is usually less easily stopped than started.

The conclusion that can be drawn from these cases of
two small conflicts seems to be obvious, but I feel that it
is frequently overlooked in our violent world: until we
begin working together better, we'll continue to ask our-
selves why we're fighting.

Harmon is a junior sociology major from Houston, TX.
