Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Pd

Football Faces Tough Conference Schedule’

By STEVE BYERS

To say that the Davidson football
team faces a tough schedule in 1984
would be understating matters a little.
The Wildcats opened their season last
Saturday at Western Carolina. Western,
by the way, was chosen by Sports Illus-
trated to be the best team in NCAA I-AA
this year.

It doesn’t get any easier, though. On
September 29 Davidson travels to
Philadelphia to meet the University of
Pennsylvania, last year’s Ivy League
champions. Homecoming is against The
Citadel, which almost upset South
Carolina last week. The next Saturday
the Cats stay at home to battle James
Madison University, which won only
three games last year.

Unfortunately, one was against
Davidson by a score of 50-0. Then Buck-
nell comes to town. They beat the Cats
50-7 last season.

As if this wasn’t enough, throw in
Furman at Furman on November 3. The
Paladins, minus David Charpia and Stan-
ford Jennings, may not be the best team
in the Southern Conference this year. But
they are still quite capable of causing
many headaches for the Cats. Get the
picture? Davidson could have a great
year and still win only four or five
games.

By SCOTT HUIE

It is at least some consolation that the
Cats kept it respectable in losing last
Saturday’s opener against Western
Carolina 45—13 in front of nearly 10,000
spectators.

Make the Catamounts 47-point fa-
vorites, watch all the major publications,
including Sports Illustrated, rank them
number | in the country in Division I-AA
football, and what you have are the pros-
pects of the victor’s point total resembl-
ing a basketball score rather than a foot-
ball score.

But Davidson did play it close, at
least for the first 20 minutes of the game.
After falling behind 9-0 in the first quar-

Hockey Fields

By ANDY BARRON

Every sports fan has heard the cliche;
“We have a really young team.” Every
coach uses it. Nevertheless, it applies to
Davidson’s field hockey team.

“We are a young team and are faced
by the problems that confront every
young team,” coach Daley said. ‘““We’re
inexperienced and are more easily in-
timidated than an older team would be.
However, I am confident that we will im-
prove with each game. We will hold our
own.”

The Cats will be led by a strong de-
fense. Anchoring the defense will be
sophomore sweeper Heather McKee and
two of the teams three senior captains,
Lou Hamilton and Kara Gilmore. Behind
this line will be junior goalie Binney Jan-
netta. Sophomore Polly Northen also
plays defense, which will be under a lot

Wait. There’s more good news.
Sophomore Mike Cate led the Cats in
rushing last year. However, Cate sus-
tained a severe neck injury against
Catawba and will be unable to play this
season. Along with senior Bob Letton,
whose injuries also prevent him from any
further competition, Cate will serve as a
student coach. Senior Bob Coxe, ex-
pected to start at tight end this fall, left
the team because of conflicts with his
Pre-Med major.

As for healthy players, the offense
should be more diversified and exciting
this year. Senior co-captain Jeff Haney,
who replaces Keith Martin at quarter-
back, says, “People are going to be sur-
prised at the way we’ve opened things
up. We’re going to make the defense
cover the whole field.” Sophomores Eric
McClarity and Billy Waitsman will be
catching the passes this year, for last sea-
son’s starting split ends have graduated.

In the backfield junior Horace Manor
and senior Mike Longmire will share
time at fullback. Manor is bigger and fas-
ter, but Longmire has a knack for scoring
touchdowns which comes in handy.
Senior halfback David Turner will be a
big, big plus for the offense if he can stay
healthy. Junior Jay Poag, one of the best
and most versatile athletes for the Cats, is
the starting wingback. Sophomore Mike
Jones also took some snaps last year.

Hence, look for a lot more passing and
less grinding-it-out on offense.

The defense was a little less hurt by
graduation, though it did lose three let-
termen at linebacker. Senior Jerry May
and juniors Micah Downing and Chuck
Goff will handle the linebacking for
Davidson this fall. Elsewhere, the defen-
sive backfield is anchored by senior
D.D. Wright, juniors Doug Neil and
Tony Smith and sophomore Gary
Stewart. The secondary should be very
quick but relatively inexperienced. They
will be tested early and often.

What about the offensive and defen-
sive lines? Coach Ed Farrell claims that
“these are the best lines we’ve had in
years.” Haney says, “It’s the best offen-
sive line I’ve seen here, and the defen-
Sive line is great.”

One of the reasons for all the praise is
the return of senior D.E. Wright at out-
side linebacker/defensive end. Wright
didn’t play most of last season due to in-
jury and he was missed. Against Western
last week he was all over the field, caus-
ing fumbles and intercepting passes.

Both lines are experienced, big and
relatively quick. Sophomore defensive
end Marcus Allen gives the Cats two for-
midable ends, while junior noseguard
Ralph Steding and senior tackle (and
three-year letterman) Kirk Gavel will
more than hold their own in the trenches.

ter, Davidson roared back with a 30-yard
drive, capped off by a 7-yard touchdown
burst up the middle by senior fullback
Mike Longmire.

But before you could say upset,
Western unveiled Div. I-AA’s answer to
Anthony Carter in the form of senior
wide receiver Eric Rasheed. The 5’8”

Young Squad

of pressure until the teams relatively in-
experienced forwards come around.

The upfield duties will be the respon-
sibility of the remaining captain, senior
Paige Marsh, and freshman Maxine Cur-
rie. Marsh and Currie will both have
marking assignments as well as trying to
start the offense by getting the ball to the
forwards. Forward will be played by
junior Suzie Klineman, sophomores Pam
Harmon and Shannon Stowe, and
freshman Janet Bitter. The key to a suc-
cessful season is getting enough scoring
from an inexperienced front line.

“Our goals are those of any young
team,” Daley said. ““We want to decrease
the number of fouls we commit each
game. We want to increase our ball con-
trol and get more and more shots on goal.
The team is small in number, but every-
one is working very hard. I’m confident
that we will have a good season.”

Football players during practice

speedster took the ensuing kickoff, juked
around a couple of Davidson would-be
tacklers and raced for a 96-yard
touchdown. The lead now stood at 17-7
and was upped to 24~7 by halftime.

Rasheed returned in the third quarter
to put the game out of reach, converting a
halfback pass into a 42-yard touchdown.
The Catamounts scored twice more, the
most disappointing on a blocked punt
which was returned 41 yards for a
touchdown. The Cats’ final score came
late in the game ona three-yard pass from
backup quarterback Steve Bradley to
senior halfback David Turner.

Offensively, standouts included the
fullback tandem of Longmire and Horace
Manor, whose combioned rushing ac-
counted for 92 yards, and Turner, who
rushed for 32 yards and caught four pas-
ses for 29 yards. Defensively, free safety
Roger Smythe got in on 11 tackles, and
end D.E. Wright, the team’s rock, butted
heads nine times.

The Catamounts turned the ball over
a whopping seven times, but the Cats
could capitalize only twice. Neverthe-
less, coach Ed Farrell saw some en-
couraging signs.

“Physically, we matched up pretty
well with them,” he said.
“They just had better execution and
much more team speed. If you’ re not per-
fect aginst these guys, you're not going
to win, and we definitely were not that.

Peggy Pierott!

The offensive line is dominated by
juniors and seniors, all of whom are
proven and quite sizable. Nevertheless,
they will be overmatched in a few of the
games.

So,it’s bottom line time. What will
Davidson do this season? Barring a
major upset or two, they will again finish
under .500.1 think they will be a fun team
to watch, though, with a lot more passing
and a more imaginative offensive
scheme. Don’t let the Western score fool
you. The defense played a lot better than
the score indicates. The offense had
trouble moving the ball deep in Western
territory but looked very good at times.

But the Western game really was not
a fair opener for the Cats; after all, they
are the best team in the country, so the
schedule is downhill from here, in a
sense. Besides the schedule, Davidson's
biggest weaknesses are a lack of depth
and a very small freshman class (23), the
types of shortcomings which usually
come back to haunt a team.

This team has a lot of optimism and
“heart” (in Haney’s words), though,
which could compensate for a lot of
things.

Farrell's philosphy is not to worry
about your opponent, but instead to con-
centrate on what you do best and go out
and do it. If the Cats can accomplish that
this fall, who knows what could happen’?

But we did deal as many blows as we
took.”
With weeks of summer practice and

one game under his belt, Farrell assessed
the team’s chances this year: “As a
whole, the team ts better than last year’s
We lost a lot at the skilled positions, but

both our offensive and defensive lines
are vastly improved

“Our schedule ts the toughest it has
ever been and we know we go into many
games overmatched. But this team has a
remarkable attitude. If football were a
poker game, I think we may accomplish
what we set out to do with three cards
when the other guy has got five.”

Now, let’s set the record straight be-
fore anyone blames the loss on the as-
troturf or even the night lights. The
measure of success for Davidson football
is not always wins, but rather weekly
progress. “My goal for us,” says Farrell,
“is a better football team next week.”

What it all boils down to is simply a
matter of priorities. You might even call
last Saturday's loss a moral victory of
sorts. We beat the point spread by 15,
and really, the odds of Davidson winning
this one were about equal to the chances
of a freshman hall making it through the
year without a mixer.

Vince Lombardi may be rolling over
in his grave when I say this, but winning
isn't everything here at Davidson. But
when it does happen, cherish it.

Fortunately, you just might be able to
do that tomorrow as the Cats take on Di-
vision III rival Guilford (1-0) in the
home opener. Davidson leads the series
15 to 3 and won last year’s contest 33 to
17. Said Farrell, “They are a bunch of
scrappers and they always move the ball
well against us.” Expect a high scoring
affair, and the Cats should come out of it
with their first victory of the season.
