Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS &

NTERTAINMENT

Claude Frank Gives Crystal Clear Performance

By BILL BUGG

Pianist Claude Frank entertained an enthusiastic Art-
ists Series audience Tuesday night, performing works by
Schubert, Chopin, Ginastera, and Beethoven.

Frank began the concert with Schubert’s Sonata in G
Major, Op. 78. His crystal clear technique exhibited
warmth and vivid contrasts of dynamics. The passage-
work showed great expression, and he voiced the
melody beautifully.

The second piece was Fantasie in F minor, Op. 49 by
Frederic Chopin. Frank played the runs crisply and con-
trasted forte and piano, bass and treble expertly.

Although his repertoire is generally conservative,
Frank occasionally performs twentieth-century music.
His third selection, Alberto Ginestera’s Danzas Argen-
tinas, provided variety and color in the program. In an
interview Frank said the Argentine composer's works
have a strong sense of structure with neither too much
nor too little repetition. He labeled the Dance of the Old
Cowherd “folksy and amusing,” the Dance of the Grace-
ful Maiden “imaginative,” and the Dance of the Cowboy
Horse Thief ‘a wild cowboy dance.”

The concert’s finale, Beethoven’s Sonata in C
Major, Opus 53 (“Waldstein”), was superb. Frank's
polyphonic emphasis on passage-work coupled well
with his voicing of the sweeping melody in the transition
to the final movement. The buildup to the majestic
climax was thrilling.

The encores consisted of Debussy’s General Lavine
Eccentric, Liszt's lithe Hungarian Rhapsody, and the
more subtle fad byrieal- Busoni-transcription of Bach's
Adagio from Organ Toccata inC Major. This final, short

Pianist Claude Frank

work stunned the the audience, and Frank received a
standing ovation.

Frank, born in 1925, lived in Nuremberg, Germany
until he was 12. During the German occupation, he

“ moved from Nuremberg to Brussels to Paris to Lisbon,

before coming to the United States in 1940.

Peggy Pierotti

From the early to late 1940s he studied with Artur
Schnabel, an Austrian pianist and composer who emig-
rated to the United States in 1939. Schnabel, one of the
most revered teachers of this century, had a profound in-
fluence on Frank. In a piano master class Monday, he re-
counted an experience he had under Schnabel. Once,
when Frank was playing Beethoven Sonata during a les-
son, Schnabel interrupted him and said, “It is beautiful.”
Frank humbly replied, “Thank you.”’ Schnabel then re-
torted, “No, I was referring to the piece.”

Frank said he rarely listens to Schnabel’s 1930 re-
cording of Beethoven's 32 sonatas, preferring to keep
the memory of Schnabel as a teacher. RCA released
Frank's recording of Beethoven's sonatas over a decade
ago, and a new recording will soon be released under
another label.

Except for an occasional Mozart concerto cadenza,
Frank said he rarely composes. He did, however, com-
pose in his earlier years in New York with Normand
Lockwood, and aspires to do so again. When asked what
composer is his favorite, he replied, “I have four gods:
Bach, Mozart, Beethoven, and Schubert.”

Frank has performed with the Boston Symphony
Chamber Players and the Julliard, Cleveland, and Emer-
son Quartets. The 1983-84 season marks his 25th an-
niversary as a performing artist. Concert engagements
have taken him to South America, North America,
Europe, Asia and Africa. He will be appearing in Israel
this March. Currently he is on the faculty at Yale where
he is much sought after as a teacher. Each summer he
performs and teaches at the Aspen Music Festival. He is
married to pianist Lillion Kallir.

Lentz Ivey Strives For Technical Precision

By SCOT W. MYERS

Student artist Lentz Ivey opened his third public
show Monday with the hoopla of printed invitations and
a wine and cheese reception in the Union Gallery.

Ivey does not seem limited to any single medium for
expression; his exhibition icludes not only watercolor
paintings but pencil drawings, etchings, lithographs,
and even a pastel rendering. While his etchings represent
his finest technical work, the watercolors demonstrate
more clearly his talent. Natural Reflection of City's
Scape and Marsh Oak are clearly the finest works in this

show.

Most of Ivey’s works are harshly linear. He admits in
his opening statement that he is fascinated with the struc-
ture and representation of buildings, and over half of his
works use buildings as the subject. Yet in each he has
created a new subject. Natural Reflection, while domi-
nated by a harsh building face, is softened by warm,
hazy clouds reflecting off the cold windows of the build-
ing. Sole is a boring housefront made electric with vio-
lent window shades and a haunting woman glancing out.

Most of his work, however, lacks the haunting qual-
ities of these two paintings. While his style is technically

Peggy Pierotti

Senior Lentz Ivey and Natural Reflection of City’ s Scape

Pa a a ee) a ood,

ee Rs Se key BE te

Pa ME i Sa cB a eS a, Ono sta oe te Oe ae

one ee eee

precise, it lacks the passion with which we usually as-
sociate great work. There is a routine, a disturbing pat-
tern in almost every piece. Newtie’s Balcony fails to cap-
ture the imagination, and the vague figure merely dis-
tracts instead of captivates as in Sole. Ivey's attempts to
diversify his pictures result in second-rate works. Ap-
parently, when Ivey leaves behind the harsh lines. he
leaves some portion of his talent behind as well.

His etchings, for example, include a wonderful noir-
style piece entitled S/ats. The juxtaposing lines and
harsh contrasts make for fascinating study. My Garden,
on the other hand (with its attempts at smoother, natural
configurations) fails to evoke a response any greater than
“that’s nice.” [tis only with Empty Alameda that he man-
ages to combine both straight line and curve, brought
totgether in yet another man-made edifice.

Ivey's only success with nature {s the watercolor en-
titled Marsh Oak. The accomplishment here, however,
is not the choice of subject matter but the manner in
which the colors are blended. A rather plain view of a
tree limb and its forestal background becomes alive with
color, a hint of changing sun delicately mixed in.

An untitled pastel provides an interesting diversion
as layer is heaped upon layer of color. Several vicious
slashes cut through to some otherwise unseen level
below. The viewer is not privy to the significance of the
piece, but as one of only two non-representational
pieces, it gives us some glimpse, however small. to
another unexplored side of the artist.

Despite conflicting works, Lentz Ivey has talent.
While his range is limited and his attempts to move out
of that range are not terribly successful, he manages to
create a clean picture without being sterile. There is style
to Ivey's style. In a world of “modern art” Ivey is a
breath of fresh air. for he simply creates beauty.

z
