Friday, May 4, 1984/The Davidsonian 13

Blacks Isolated Due To White Delusion

Rod Holman

White people, having shit upon the world, have be-
come increasingly uncomfortable with the stench
they’ve created. And like a criminal who changes iden-
tities in order to escape justice, they mask their crimes
with “history” and myth. Still confronted with the dis-
parity between their abundant evil and the myths of
white civilization (progress, enlightenment, refinement,
etc.), they project their baser drives onto Blacks. Well
no wonder you have trouble dealing wiht us.

After heaping your passionate disregard upon us,
Eric Hill, you back away, make a 360 degree turn on the
spot, and find yourself at a loss to explain why we are
isolated. Ifyou must accuse us of barricading ourselves
into our subsidized social club, then please come and
wipe your fingerprints off of our subsidized furniture
that you pushed up against our subsidized door (get it,
now?). At least destroy the evidence before you go be-
fore your white judge. Nevermind. I forgot that your
alibi is automatically airtight because we live in an idyl-
lic land where only spoiled Black children practice ra-
cism.

You make your position in the white man’s racial in-
telligence debate very clear when you 1) label yourself
as rational and and objective, 2) tell me that the appear-
ance of a Black face among an all-white faculty is ra-
cism, and 3) expect me to believe it. You have no objec-
tivity; you are too steeped in institutional racism, prop-
aganda, and self-righteousness. That is why it never oc-
curred to you that there’s something wrong about a soci-
ety that must pass a Fair Housing Bill, about a leading
liberal arts college that up to twenty years ago denied
Blacks entrance, or about the fact that you know no
Blacks beyond “Hello”

The only thing more despicable than your delusion is
that Davdison in no way challenges it. Preyudiced white
parents everywhere know that Johnny and Mary can
simply sail through Davidson and similar schools with
myths intact. Where else do class leaders and Ph.D’s
maintain that the Black masses are deservedly poor and
happy about it, that a historically disenfranchised group
which is still being denied full participation is overin-
dulged, and that the demands of Blacks are the only flaw
in an otherwise unbiased system?

Don’t talk to me, Eric, about color-blindedness and
judgement on the basis of individual characteristics; we
are all incapable of the former and you apply the latter
with whites only. In one breath you champion the indi-
vidual and in the next you expose your real beliefs by im-

The only thing more despicable
than your delusion is_ that

Davidson in no way challenges

It.

plying that Blacks are all of one mind. You reveal your
own haughty seclusion when you charge that it’s the
BSC that discourages Blacks from joining fraternities.
Nice try, but you know very well from whence cometh
the discourging vibes. Truth is, most people would pre-
fer run of the mill oppresion-at-large without the added
displeasure of oppression up close and impersonal at 6
p.m. evry day.

What I’m getting at is this: the white delusion has
grown so large that the duper has become the duped.
Whites have conveniently forgotten the true chain of
cause and effect. Why are whites uneasy around Blacks?
Why do white people invariably say, “I want to approach
you as an individual; not as a Black.” or “I like you in
spite of the fact that you’re a Black.”*? Why do you want
to separate my individuality, i.e., my human worth,

from my Blackness as if the two were incompatible? I'l
tell you why.

Essential to the white delusion-turned-reality are the
myths-turned-history of 1) Africa, the dark and savage
continent and 2) the lazy, hardworking, immoral, dev-
out, dumb, crafty, loyal, ungrateful, subhuman, soulful,
ugly, oversexed, dirty, historyless nigger. These con-
cepts have become second-nature to white people to
such an extent that they cannot understand why Blacks
would voluntarily call attention to themselves and their
“horrible” Blackness by observing Black History Month
or wanting even more Blacks on campus. We make you
uneasy because our presence triggers your guilt, chal-
lenges your assumptions, and forces you to confront
yourselves at your worst. That applies only those of you
who think; the rest actually believe these sterotypes and
simply don’t want to be around someone who, according
to mommy and daddy, fits the above description.

I won’t go into the implications of the self-contradic-
tory nature of your Black stereotypes. They are your cre-
ation: an intergral part of white culture and the white
psyche. You’ ve adorned us with your failings and segre-
gated us, thereby guaranteeing that we went underfed,
undereducated, and underemployed and... whad-
dyaknow! . . . out we came in your image of us. But
Funk and Wagnall tell it differently and Eric Hill does’t
realize how much of him, and his white family and
friends, went into “the Black problem” in America.
Allow me to quote Jean-Paul Sartre:

What then did you expect when you unbound the gag that had
muted those black mouths. That they would chant your
praises? Did you think that when those heads that our fathers
forcibly bowed down to the ground were raised again, you
would find adoration in their eyes?

Add to that, if you will, the poverty, discrimination,
subliminal oppression and psychological head games
that bind us today. But please don’t stare into my face
expecting anything more than a questioning look.

A rational, objective approach is of use only to an in-
formed mind. Most whites are unaware of the true cul-
prit in the racial problem because they do not recognize
the implications of their actions. Worse yet, they are in-
dignant about their ignorance. Twenty-seven million
Black Americans daily confront an irrational barrier of
color prejudice, in addition to the general frustrations of
life. Yet you deem yourselves relevant when you beg-
rudge us a “subsidized” shelter from your insults. Pecul-
lar.

Holman is a sophomore spanish major from Winston-
Salem, NC.

Of Whom Is Davidson Afraid?

Suzanne Dickey

I suppose as the year winds down all of us seniors
take a look back at the last four years at Davidson to see
what we've learned, what we've lost, and how we've
changed. Anne Elliott is leaving Davidson with feelings
of pain, injustice, and bitterness. I can’t say that I blame
her, I blame Davidson, but I wish that she hadn’t lumped
all of us white middle class students into one group.

More than one minority exists at Davidson. Al-
though the school is geared toward collecting a student
body composed of bright, white preps from the East
Coast, a few odd fish are caught up in the net each year.
We don’t all drive BMWs. People ask me all the time
what I’m doing at Davidson. I usually laugh and say I be-
came lost on my way to Duke. Perhaps I am really here
to test my tolerance for conservativism.

Without black students on campus I might have been
swallowed up in this conservatism. My parents are con-
servative Presbyterians, and I come from an area of the
South‘where people think nothing of saying “nigger,”
where the school district lines run carefully between the
neighborhoods, and where I never had the chance to
make a black friend.

Davidson gave me that chance through a fellow track
team member. With him I went to my first all-black
party where I was the only white person. I held hands
with him, I hugged him, I visited his room, I went places
with him, and, of course, Davidson talked. An innocent
friendship was turned into an ugly gossip item, and I
wanted to run out and bang everyone’s stupid, pre-
judiced heads together. Instead I learned to pity those
who would not learn and change and ignored the talk.

It is not the duty of Davidson’s black student popula-
tion to make the effort at communication, understand-

ing, and friendship so that the white students can (possi-
bly) be enlightened. | will be the last to say that I am
completely unprejudiced; I have had the white master
mentality too well drummed into my head to have it fade
away in four short years. Davidson will continue to drum
into its students’ heads the white superiority ideal as long
as there is such an appalling imbalance of blacks to
whites in the student body’, faculty, and administration.

Without a correction of this imbalance and without
courses to teach black history, Davidson students may
never know that there are articulate, intelligent, sensi-
tive, caring, and suffering black people in the world and
at Davidson because these students will not make the ef-
fort to find out themselves.

An education is much more than reviews, labs, pa-
pers, and exams, especially at a school which claims to
be liberal arts. An education involves learning to under-
stand and accept people different from yourself, keeping
an open mind and experiencing new things.

Any Davidson student who shuts himself off from a
friendship with a black person or someone who’s gay or
different for any reason from his/her usual circle of
friends does himself and whoever pays his tuition bills a
gross injustice. I’ve learned more from the students and
faculty at Davidson than from the courses I’ve taken.

Life outside Davidson is affectionately known to us
all as the “real world.” The illusion of Davidson keeps us
safe and warm and, if we allow it, unchanged by people
and things alien to our world. Like the college in Edward
Albee’s play, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? , David-
son is set in a small town which lends itself easily to illu-
sions.

In Albee’s play, the intellectual joke, “Who's afraid
of Virginia Woolf?” becomes a symbol of reality which
the characters are terrified of facing. Who's afraid of
Virginia Woolf? You are Davidson, you are.

Dickey is a senior english major from Slidell, LA.
