THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIll, Number 24

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 27, 1984

Activities Tax Council Makes Deep Funding Cuts

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Activities Tax Council yesterday
decided on next year’s budget allotments
for student-run campus organizations.
Though the results will not be made pub-
lic until all organizations have been
notified, several campus groups have
complained about insufficient funding.

“It’s really absurd, I think,” said
Hobart Park editor Darryl Cooper, of the
ATC decision to cut the magazine’s
funding from the $4,000 of last year to
$2,000 for this year. ““We’re only going
to be able to put out one issue next year,”
he said. He added that the ATC “really
didn’t understand the needs of the stu-

dent body here.”

According to Cooper, the ATC pene-
lized editors Darryl Cooper and Jerry
Lilly because their predecessors, Suzonn
Dickey and Scot Myers, did not publish
an issue last fall.

Quips and Cranks received $23,300,
a $300 increase from last year. The
amount is “nowhere near an inflationary
increase,” according to next year’s editor
Kathleen Micham. ‘“‘We’ Il have to cut the
size of the book, or cut color, or some-
thing,” she said. According to Micham,
the yearbook will have only $85 after the
publisher is paid with which to cover all

other costs. “They suggested that we cut

cation. See story on page 7.

_ Greek Week caps off the Easter season and leads into Spring Convo-

Jim Morgan

Dean’s Office Student
Fund Out Of Money

By DAVID RESNIK
The Dean of Students’ student loan

fund has run dry. Students who need
emergency money will have to go else-
where until those who have borrowed
money repay their debts.

Dean of Students Will Terry expects
that the fund will be replenished by the

a a

rr

end of the school year. He is sending a
notice to everyone who owes money,
asking them to pay off their debt as soon
as possible. The fund should be com-
pletely replenished by next fall, accord-
ing to Terry.

Terry said it is not unusual for the stu-
dent loan fund to run out of money at this
time of year, since many students need
loans for the $200 deposit on next year’s
tuition.’

The student loan fund was a gift from
the Class of 1972. It is separate from reg-
ular financial aid and is administered by
the office of Dean of Students. The loans
are interest-free and available upon re-
quest. The Dean of Students office usu-
ally asks no questions about the loans.

Originally, the fund held $5000, but
some of it was lost to bad debts. In order
to prevent this, the College does not
allow students to graduate who have not
paid off their loans.

Thirty-three students have used the
student loan fund so far this year. Ac-
cording to Terry, “the fund serves a need
for students . . . the secret to making it

_ work is in the paying.”

the size of the book, which is something |
knew ths student body would not be
happy with.” Quips and Cranks re-
quested $26,470.

The Davidsonian requested $13,300,
the same amount it was granted last year,
and received a $1,300 cut, to $12,000.
“We are very concerned about the
amount we were cut,” said editor Ross
Holt. “But we don’t want to make any
other comments until all the data is in
concerning other organizations.”

“No one got what they -asked for,”
ATC Chairman Ester Kim said. “Almost
every group asked for more money [than
last year]. Some asked for substantially
more. We don’t have funds for that much
more,” she said. “I think they were fair
cuts. I think everything we did was fair.”

Kim said the Hobart Park decrease
was designed to limit the magazine to
one issue next year as part of a “testing
period” for the publication. She said that
because Hobart Park only published one
issue this year with a $4,000 budget, the
ATC “got kind of burned. We’re sort of

wary now.”

Kim also questioned the demand on
campus for two issues of Hobart Park.
Kim suggested that a distributioon center
for the magazine, instead of door-to-door
distribution, would more accurately por-
tray student demand. Kim said that if
next year’s issue is handled well, addi-
tional funding may result.

The ATC also recommended chang- -

ing the selection of Hobart Park editors
from December to spring term, so that
the magazine will not change hands dur-
ing the year.

Kim said the ATC stressed fundrans-
ing as a solution to the Quips and Cranks
monetary problems. “No one gets a free
ride,” she said. “They should look for the
money in other places.”

Kim emphasized that the ATC
wanted to trim its budget deficit, which
was $3,000 last year. This year the ATC
will only exceed its estimated $66,000
budget by $950, according to Kim.
“We're real happy with that,” she said.

(continued on page 4)

Kuykendall Speaks On
Student Involvement

By DAVID McGEE

“There is almost always a correlation
between the health and welfare of the in-
dividual aspects of the College’s life and
the health and welfare of the whole.”
College President-elect John Kuykendall
said to 300 Davidson students and facul-
ty last night. Kuykendall is on campus
this weekend; last night he spoke on
“Student Participation in College Gover-
nance.”

‘All the pieces in this enterprise must
somehow fit together, and abet and en-
hance one another,” he said. Addressing
the topic, Kuykendall presented four
propositions, the first of which was “the
belief that students have a legitimate and
worthwhile contribution to make in the
shaping of a college.” He said students
have had “experiences, both within the
life of the college and elsewhere, that
provide significant insights into what's
actually going on under a given set of cir-
cumstances.”

However, Kuykendall qualified the
kind of input students have, stating that
“sometimes you stand too close to an
issue, and sometimes too far away. Your
insights on such matters as Patterson
Court or disciplinary procedures may be
enhanced by your proximity, or they may
be just biased by your circumstance.”

For student input into college gover-
nance to be effective, Kuykendall said,
the president should maintain and devel-
op the proper channels of communica-
tion. He plans to evaluate the present
means of communicating student opin-

Dr. John Kuykendall

ion and determine “how well those struc-
tures serve your right and responsibility
to share in their guidance of the coHege’s
life.”

‘From what I read and hear,” he said.
“there already exists a well-defined net-
work of advisory councils of student rep-
resentation providing direct advice to the
president on major aspects of the col-
lege’s life. In addition, the student gov-
ernment association and other campus
groups provide a corporate expression
for student views.”

Lastly, Kuykendall asserted his be-
lief in the uniqueness of Davidson Col-
lege. “For me, to say that Davidson is
unique is to reiterate that this place is not
Auburn, nor Princeton, nor Yale, nor
any other institution that I may have

known, slightly or well... .
(continued on page 4)

Randv Stroud
