10 Wednesday, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor

Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager

Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

Security

It seems several groups and individuals have become concerned
about Davidson’s security set-up. Various officials are tossing around
ideas about escort services, different patrol patterns for campus security,
and even a system which would allow students to live in locked dorms.
Furthermore, those officials who deal directly with students on a daily
basis are now urging students to lock their doors, despite the catalog’s as-
sertion that locked doors are not necessary here.

Beyond the common sense precautions available to every student
(locking room doors, keeping to well-travelled and lighted areas at night,
and so on), preventative measures will require organized — perhaps
even administrative — action.

The simplest measure, perhaps, would be to redesign the patrol pat-
terns of campus security officers, as Dean of Students Will Terry and
Housing Director Bill Bolding have suggested. Higher profile police-
men, moving frequently through known areas of trouble would be more
likely to observe suspicious activity before events become dangerous.

The SGA Security committee’s escort idea is also a relatively easily
istituted measure. No escort system, however, can be at every place from
which every person needs to depart. The system needs to include more
than merely the library and the outer dormitories. To work effectively, it

needs a central set-up to which anyone needing a security escort could
call.

These remedies, however, may not be responsive to the irrational
and unpredictable nature of the intrusions they seek to prevent. More
systematic measures are available, but these require more resources and
concerted administrative action. Administrations, by their nature require
a long, plodding decision process.

The much-talked-about card-lock system (in which dorm residents
have a card which allows them entry to their locked dorm) is effective,
but its applicability to Davidson’s situation needs serious discussion.
Would all students be able to enter any dorm, or would students only be
able to enter their own dorms? The latter option would impose a striking,
undesireable, and arguably unnecessary change on Davidson’s lifestyle.

Essentially, students and administrators need to decide the security
problem’s seriousness and then address it with appropriate measures.
Currently, the mechanism for doing that does not exist. Many people see
a problem, and the options available to solve it. Needed now is a way to
apply the right option to the right problem.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions arti-
cles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Ginger Broaddus, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Died-
rich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills,
Ted Wilson, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette
Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador
Matt Morris, Samuel Scott. Treeby Williams
Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assisiant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, assistant photography editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill
Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey
Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt
Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes. Compositors: Bobby Downie, Mitch Hall,
Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide,

jh class schedule,
I swear X think the
Sun rises pwenty
minutes later/

penn =

al

e
Was n
To the Editors:

Once again this summer, a number of
Davidson students will have the opportu-
nity to work and study in Washington,
D.C., and receive academic credit for
their efforts. The Davidson in
Washington program, sponsored by the
Department of Political Science, will en-
able twelve to sixteen students to experi-
ence first hand the excitement, frustra-
tion, and energy of the nation’s capital.

Each student will work as an intern in
a Washington area office and take part in
a seminar conducted by a member of the
Davison political science department.
Last summer’s internships were a diverse
lot, with students working in congres-
sional offices, government agencies, and
interest group offices. Specific examples
included internships with Common
Cause, the Committee to Save the ABM
Treaty, The Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee, the offices of
Senators Lawton Chiles and Lloyd
Bentsen, the National Gallery of Art, and
the Department of Health and Human
Services.

The seminar, which will meet twice
weekly in the evenings, will include fre-
quent presentations by speakers from the
Washington community. Guest speakers
for the 1984 program ranged the gamut
from congressional elections to Central
American policy. Three members of the
House of Representatives met with
Davidson students, and presentations in-
cluded an issue briefing by an expert
from the Democratic Policy Committee,
a media consultant, a well known
lawyer-lobbyist, and James Fallows, au-
thor and frequent contributer to Atlantic

magazine. The topic for this year’s semi-
nar, which will be conducted by political
science Professor Harris Proctor, is
“American Policy Toward Africa.”

Students participating in the program
will live in furnished apartments on the
campus of Georgetown University. Geo-
rgetown, a unique community within the
larger city, is convenient to the
Washington business district and an ex-
citing place to spend a summer. The stu-
dents will be responsible for their own
transportation and meals, though public
transit and kitchen facilities in the apart-
ments help with these necessities.

Interested students should have at
least a 2.5 GPA and have completed a
course in American, international, or Af-
rican politics. Those who are interested
but have not taken one of the above
courses may qualify by completiong a
course in one of these areas during the
spring term. Though the program is in-
tended primarily for current sophomores
and juniors, under exceptional cir-
cumstances applications of freshmen
will be considered.

Successcful completion of the pro-
gram will earn each student two course
credits: a letter grade credit for the semi-
nar and a pass-fail credit for the inter-
nship.

Questions about Davidson in
Washington should be directed to Profes-
sor Proctor, to any member of the politi-
cal science department, or to any of the
students who completed the program last
summer. Information sheets and applica-
tion forms are available from Professor
Proctor in Chambers 217. Completed ap-
plications must be submitted to the De-
partment of Political Science by De-
cember 14, 1984.

Dr. Thomas Kazee

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all let-
ters of general interest, but we adhere
to these four guidelines:

1) We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3) We require that letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number

and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name,
explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve: the right not to pring
letters that a) function as advertise-
ments; b) conta n inuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a
viewpoint very similar to that ex-

pressed in other letters printed on the
same topic.

