Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

5

New Director Discusses College Athletic Policy

Editors’ note: News Editor David Van Pelt talked with
Kit Morris, Davidson’ s new Athletic Director. ,
Morris’ s comments are edited for clarity.

By DAVID VAN PELT
The Davidsonian: What role do you think athletics
should play at a liberal arts institution?
Morris: I think it has a very important role, when we
talk about it in a broad sense, not just the
intercollegiate program, but athletic endeavors of all
types. It is fundamental to the education mission for
the institution. It broadens-one’s experience, and can
help to prepare students for all the stresses and
challenges of everyday life.

It’s not to be confused with the academic mission
of the institution, which is principal, but one of the
goals of every liberal arts college is to educate the total
person. And athletics is, I feel, a very important part of
a liberal education.

The Davidsonian: What should the relationship be
between major sports like basketball and football, non-
revenue sports like soccer and tennis, and intramural
and club sports? How should revenue be allocated to
non-reyenue and intramural sports?

Morris: I think allocations should be enough to provide
a diverse group of offerings. It is certainly my
objective to see people of all kinds at athletic
endeavors. The allocation is something I’m going to be
looking at with that in mind, but I’m not sure what
specific dollar amounts in each case are required.

The Davidsonian: How should admissions policy be
adjusted to attract top athletes to Davidson?
Morris: I think varsity athletes of this school should be
a cross-section of the student body in general. It would
be a dangerous situation for members of any varsity
sports team to represent a group that is at the very
bottom of the academic community. I would expect
athletic ability to be taken into consideration in the
admissions process, just as I would expect someone
who would be an exceptional writer, or musician, or
have any gifts or talents of an exceptional nature to be
taken into consideration.

_ But to admit people who are incapable of doing the
workload, and incapable of absorbing all that Davidson

has to offer, would be a mistake.

The Davidsonian: Can a school like Davidson
realistically maintain a Division I program?

Morris: I’m not sure I can answer that. I’ve never seen
a Davidson contest. In football, this season they played
Pennsylvania, our league champion, and proved
themselves very well. They played extremely strong,
and, for 58 1/2 minutes, controlled the contest. I think
it’s a real credit to the institution and the members of
the team. But I'd be very wrong about making any
strong statements about Davidson’s competitive
standing until I have a greater knowledge of the situa-
tion.

The Davidsonian: Do you think academic
expectations should be adjusted for varsity athletes?
Morris: Absolutely not. I don’t expect professors to
come to our coaches and try to coach their teams. And
likewise I don’t think coaches should consult with
professors on the construction of their course syllabus,
or their method of testing. I think these people will
respect each other as professionals.

The Davidsonian: What do you see as your
responsibilities as athletic director, and what policy
changes do you envision?

Morris: I think my responsibilities will be to provide
leadership, to provide structure and organization, and
to approach and solve problems in a consistent manner,
As far as making any judgments as to the future, at this
point I’m not well-acquainted with Davidson’s
situation, and I’ve got a lot to learn. When I come in,
I’m going to try to clarify for myself what morés are in
place right now, and how things work, and as soon as
that is examined, those things that need some
adjustment will be looked at. think it’s impossible to
predict what kinds of changes, if any, will be taking
place in the future. And certainly I don’t anticipate any
changes right away.

The Davidsonian: What was the selection process
like?

Morris: To me it seemed fairly rigorous. I sent my
application last June, and the process was one which
was methodical and thorough. My first visit to campus
was in late October, and, in a period of two days, I had

17 meetings and interviews. The second time was in
mid-November, when I had a chance to meet with
some of the same people and a few different people.
One thing that impressed me very much during each
visit was the outpouring of goodwill from everybody.

I think there is a very strong feeling in the
community in support of athletics, and I found this
very encouraging. This wealth of warmth and kind
spirit was one of the factors which greatly influenced
my decision.

The Davidsonian: What did your previous posts at
Harvard involve, and how do you think these
experiences will help you at Davidson?

Morris: When I was at Harvatd I was just out of
graduate school, and was working as an assistant to the
athletic director. Much of what I did there consisted of
project work for the athletic director. I was involved in
a pretty diverse group of activities, from serving as
lead director for all indoor and outdoor track and field
events, to coaching women’s softball, to serving as
liason between the admissions office and the coaching
staff. ,

I also served as Secretary on the Faculty
Committee on Athletics. So it gave me a pretty good
picture of the involvement in the athletic department.

When I came to Yale, I was more involved in the
structure of the department. The associate director of
varsity sports incorporated practically every aspect of
our 33-sport program — budgeting, supervision of
coaches, scheduling, working with team captains,
contest management, sports information, admissions
and recruitment — anything at all that had to do with
our varsity sports program basically came through my
Office.

I think in many cases with the things I've learned
I'll be able to use a fairly objective approach to my
responsibilities at Davidson, and try to implement
some operational things that will demonstrate a
department-wide consistency in our varsity,
intramural, and club sports programs. But I think to
come in and say Davidson is going to be like Yale or

Harvard is to show.a lack of appreciation for the
uniqueness of this institution.

Task Force Identifies Problems , Sets Goals

(continued from page !)

minority alumni, and improve interracial
understanding and cooperation within
the community here.

In addition to policy objectives, the
report identifies nine areas of concern for
minorities on campus:

— the report compares Davidson
with other schools like it in terms of the
involvement of minorities in the life of
the college.

— an assessment of the costs as-
sociated with recruiting black students
who meet Davidson’s admission stan-
dards.

— an outline of the College’s admis-
sion standards and how they relate to the
academic qualifications of black students
here.

—‘“Davidson’s black students, while
capable of undertaking Davidson’s
academic program, sometimes lack par-
ticular skills which would advance their
academic progress,” the report states.

— the social stresses black students
experience caused by the composition of
and the small number of blacks on cam-
pus, the attitudes of whites have toward
blacks, and the “historic separation of the
black and white communities within the
Town of Davidson.”

— “There are few black role models
on the faculty and professional staffs.”

— exposure of black’s racial heritage
is limited in the school’s academic pro-
gram, in cultural events, and in the social
system, the report states.

— the number of blacks who leave
Davidson without graduating “is inap-
propriately high.”

— “Black alumni have traditionally
not been involved in the affairs of the
College.”

The report elaborates extensively on
each area of concern and provides statis-
tical comparisons of Davidson to other
schools with respect to minority experi-
ences. Additional information is avail-
able at the library, including the reports
of the task force’s subcommittees, which
covered the situation that minorities
faced in the past at Davidson, what their
current experience is, and what higher
education has accomplished as a whole
in meeting the needs of blacks and other
minorities.

On how Davidson relates to other
schools, the report states: “[wJhile statis-
tical comparisons with similar institu-
tions indicate we have attained a level of
black representation comparable to the
average of the comparison group, the site

visits suggest that we are behind in the |

experience and support we provide for
blacks.”

The potential for increasing the dis-
parity between the number of black and
white students stands as another of the
task force’s concerns.

Davidson's 52 black students, the re-
port states, make up 3.78 percent of the
student population; 37 are male and 15
are female. “Twenty-eight of the black
males have participated in one or more
intercollegiate sports and were recruited
through efforts of the athletic depart-
ment,” the report states.

These conditions, according to the
report, create strains on black’s social
experience here.

“Black students who attempt to
socialize with other races,” the report
states, “are sometimes pressured by
blacks who fear losing a member of an al-
ready small group. The pressure to be-

long may be limiting because of this
group. This problem is often seen by
white members of the community as an
ambivalence between inclusion in the
mainstream of Davidson life and exclu-
sion in the security of predominantly
black settings.”

Increasing awareness of blacks at
Davidson would involve hiring more
black professors and administrators and
broadening academic and other pro-

grams focusing on the black experience.

The report gives attrition rates for
black students; from 1966 to 1975 the at-
trition rate for blacks was 43 percent and
dropped to 34.9 from 1976 through
1984. White students had a 20 percent at-

trition rate during the same period.

Black alumni, the report states “‘ex-
press regret, anger and frustration over
the social strains they experienced while
in college,” which include a lack of so-
cial life for blacks, white student at-
titudes, and the small number of black
students at Davidson. The report points
to several efforts to address black alumni
concerns, among them: holding more
black alumni reunions (the first was held
last spring) and involving black alumni
in recruiting black students.

The report concludes by identifying
specific strategies for achieving the ob-
jectives outlined in the nine areas of con-
cern.

New Athletic Director

(continued from page !)

education from the University of Missis-
sippi in 1973. He also holds a master’s
degree in education from Harvard.

After graduation from the University
of Mississippi, he worked for the Fairfax
County, Va. public school system as a
human relations specialist. He served as
a counselor, substitute teacher, and En-
glish instructor for homebound students.
He later taught at Walker High School in
Atlanta, Ga.

Besides teaching English literature,
composition, and grammar, he coached
varsity basketball. wi

At Davidson, he will administer the
college’s 17 intercollegiate teams, 11
club sports, and nine intramural sports.

Morris, 33, is married to Donna Pier-

leoni; they have two children.

According to mathematics Professor
J. B. Stroud, chairman of the search
committee, the committee was looking
for ‘‘a person of integrity, intelligence,
and energy” with Division I experience.
Stroud calls Morris “a good man for the
job,” and hopes Morris will “like the job
as well as we (the committee members)
like him.” Stroud feels that an environ-
ment like Davidson is the right one for
Morris. According to search committee
member Beadsie Woo, Morris made a
good first impression when he visited
Davidson as a candidate. She added that
his experience was so impressive for
someone his age and showed he had
“something extra special.”
