4 Friday, October 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

Davidson Students Participate In Vaccine Study

By DAVID VAN PELT

With the help of 93 Davidson stu-
dents, Dr. James Parke of Charlotte
Memorial has completed a “very posi-
tive” study of the effectiveness of a new
vaccine. Davidson students last spring
received $50 each to be innoculated with
a weakened dose of hemophilius influen-
zae type B bacterium, which causes
meningitis, bone and joint infections,
and other diseases in infants and young
children. Parke measured the antibody
response in the students.

According to Parke, Associate Chair-
man of the Pediatrics Department at

Charlotte Memorial Hospital, “we know
that the vaccines do stimulate appropri-
ate antibody responses and that the vac-
cine is safe to use.” Parke said the study
was introduced at a bacteria vaccine con-
ference last month at the National Insti-
tute of Health in Bethesda, Md. He said
Davidson students received “appropriate
mention” for their part in the study.
Parke divided the student voluteers
into five groups, in which each paticipant
received two injections and gave four
blood samples. Four of these received
different amounts of haemophilus in-
fluenzae conjugated to tetanus toxoid,
and one received pneumoccocus 6A vac-

Students For A Better
America To Organize

By LEE WHITE

“The possibilities are endless,” says
senior Tony Holt about the organization
Students For A Better America. Holt,
head of the College Republicans, wants
to establish a chapter of the national or-
ganization at Davidson.

Promoting free enterprise stands as
the nonpartisan group’s main goal, Holt
said. It seeks to enhance an understand-
ing of businesses and corporations and
their functions, he added. The organiza-
tion is a non-profit foundation with chap-
ters on approximately 30 college cam-
puses.

Holt said he views the group as an op-
portunity to bridge the gap between stu-
dents and corporations, which is his key
interest in Students For A Better Ameri-
ca.

According to Holt, Students For A
Better America supports a responsible
and cost-effective military. It also advo-
cates family values. Another concern is
“more efficient government,” Holt said.
The group favors a balanced budget, he
said, but not a constitutional amendment
requiring one.

The national organization provides a
concept and information to campus
groups, Holt said. However, he said, the
Davidson group would not have to fol-
low specific directions from the national
organization. The group could invite
speakers on topics other than business-
related concerns, he said. The effective-
ness of the group, Holt said, depends on
student involvement and ideas.

Holt said he learned about Students
For A Better America while working in
Washington, D. C. To spark interest in
the group, he put up fliers in Chambers
presenting opinions on issues such as the
Social Security system. David Stead-
man, head of the Steadman Corporation
in Asheboro, N. C. provided the fliers.
Holt contacted Steadman, among others,
this summer to solicit ideas for the new
organization.

Holt is presently the only member of
the group. To increase student involve-
ment, he said he would like to sponsor
several speakers this spring. He esti-
mated that a good speakers’ series would
cost about $20,000. He hopes to raise
money from businessmen, friends, and
alumni. Donations to the group are tax
deductible, he said. Eventually, Holt
hopes for funding from the student ac-
tivities tax council.

Holt said the program would benefit
businesses by giving them student feed-
back in discussions. He said students
would get an opportunity to make con-
tacts in the business world.

One idea Holt has in mind is a news-
letter, providing a forum for
businessmen and students to correspond.
He emphasized, however, that the
group’s concerns need not be solely busi-
ness related.

Holt called the group “very positive
and upbeat.” He plans to proceed with
organizing a Students For A Better
America chapter here after the Nov. 6
election.

cine, which Parke said also produces an-
tibody response to haemophilus influen-
zae.

The antibody response of those in-
jected with a double dose of haemophilus
was not significantly greater than with a
normal injection, which Parke said
showed that antibody response was at its
maximum with a 50 mcg injection. Anti-
body response was not as great, he said,
with the pneumoccocus injection, which
disproved the need for the pneumoc-
cocus vaccine.

None of the 93 volunteers discon-
tinued the program completely, though
Parke said eight students experienced
such adverse reaction to the first injec-
tion that they did not receive a second
one. These students continued to give the
blood samples, and received the $50 fee,
Parke said.

“IT was sick for about two days just
from the initial injection, which was one
of the lowest ones,” junior Scott Purdy
said, who did not receive a second in-
noculation. Most students experienced a
mild reaction to the bacterium. “I had a
slight fever, but other than that I had no
problem with it at all,” sophomore Fred
Higgins said. “I’m glad I did it.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledges used
the project as a fund-raising drive for the
fraternity. Sophomore Fletcher Fairey,
who directed the drive, said approxi-

mately 20 SAE pledges joined the pro-
gram, raising approximately $1,000 for
the fraternity.

Though the money “might have been
the primary motive,” he said, “we
realized this was something that was
helpful in its own right.” He said the
fraternity members have not yet decided
what to do with the money.

Parke reported a disappointing turn-
out for the final blood sample this fall.
He visited the campus Oct. 2 and 3, and
said 26 students did not appear for a
blood sample. Parke cited the summer
layoff and his decision to pay the volun-
teers last spring as possible reasons for
the poor attendance.

He called and sent letters to those
failing to appear during his first visit this
fall, and returned yesterday for a make-
up visit. Any students who missed yes-
terday’s visit, he said, should contact
him at Charlotte Memorial Hospital
(331-3156).

Because of the vaccines’ promising
results on adults, Parke said, testing will
soon begin on children, the results of
which he expects to have before next
summer. Testing on infants would fol-
low, he said, and if successful, the vac-
cine would be used in a defined commu-
nity such as Mecklenberg County, which
tested a similar but more limited vaccine

‘in 1975-76.

Subscribe to

THE DAVIDSONIAN

$12 for 28 issues, third class;
$23 for 28 issues, first class.
Send a check or money order to:
The Davidsonian
P. O. Box 219
Davidson, NC 28036

MANAGE YOUR CAREER

A t the University of Rochester's Graduate School
of Management you can manage your career with a highly
respected M.B.A. With our wide variety of financial aid and loan,
programs, you can manage your finances, too. So, take charge, Fd
and manage your way to a top quality management education.

SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE

Our representative will be at your placement office

Nov. 2, 9:00 am-11:30 am

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL TOLL FREE:
rropuiside NY. state cal: 1-800-621-0095
From within N.Y. State call: 1-800-462-0073

Call toll free during these hours:
Monday - Friday 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday 5:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Saturday 10:00 a.m.- 2:00 p.m.

( _

THE
DRESSER

“’The Dresser’ gives two splendid
actors, Tom Courtenay and Albert
Finney, a chance to strut their
stuff. Courtenay offers a perfectly
polished performance. Subtle
observation and marvelously con-
trolled invention mark his work.
Finney is a revelation.”

—Richard Schickel, TIME MAGAZINE

THE UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Rochester, NY 14627

sum
LAG @)

NOG

“Triumphant. My favorite film of
. the year. Be sure not to miss it.”
~ Jeffrey Lyons, SNEAK PREVIEWS

Any undergraduate major can qualify you as an M.B.A. candidate.

