THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIII, Number 18

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 16, 1984

Knife Drawn On Student , Town Resident Charged

By DAN VOORHIS

Several Davidson students witnessea
a potentially violent event Wednesday
night when a local resident drew a knife
and threatened a student. The incident
occurred around 8:30 p.m. at a private
party at the Pi Kappa Alpha house.

After talking with several other stu-
dents, Duane Hoskins, his wife, and her
brother Jim Fuschillo tried to enter the
closed party. Hoskins, a Davidson resi-
dent who works for a construction firm in
Charlotte, grew angry when told several
times to leave by sophomore Spence Mil-
len. Hoskins began shouting obscenities,
pulled out a large lock-blade knife, and
threatened Millen.

Fuschillo and Hoskins’s wife re-
strained Hoskins and led him away in the
direction of ETC house. Students at the
party called the police and Sergeants
Harold Cook and Wayne King of campus

2)

}

Tim, John,

Missy, and Jamie Kuykendall

Kuykendall’s Credentials ‘Impeccable’

security stopped the trio. Millen was then
asked if he would press charges. When
Hoskins continued to threaten him, Mil-
len agreed. Police found concealed
knives on both Fuschillo and Hoskins.
Millen said that he initially had
trouble deciding whether to press

/ Charges or not. Hoskins told him not to,

and Millen asked him, “what would you
do if I threatened you with a knife?’ and
he said ‘I'd take it and kill you in a sec-
ond.’ That pretty much decided it.”

The three suspects, Millen and
twelve witnesses went to the police
building to make statements. Hoskins
continued to threaten Millen in front of
the people there. The three were released
while officers went to Huntersville to get
an arrest warrant for Hoskins. Povice
could not hold them because no officer
witnessed the incident. After the magis-
trate issued the warrant, Cook and King

‘9h,

Carroll Overton

arrested Hoskins, charging him with as-
sault with a deadly weapon. Hoskins was
released when he posted a $200 bond
after his arraignment in Charlotte. The
trial is set for 9:00 on April 5 at District
Court in Charlotte.

Before entering the PiKA house, the
three ran into freshman Carroll Overton
and junior Jay Gaither in the area be-
tween the Commons and Belk dormit-
ory. The trio had a gallon-jug of wine
laced with the pain-killer Percodan.
They had a lengthy conversation, and
Gaither said the three were in a “fairly

mellow” frame of mind. At one point
during their discussion, however, one of
the men offered to “steal the heart in front
of the SPE house and kill everybody in-
side,” said Overton. The students felt
they were joking and ignored the offer.

Hoskins and Fuschillo became more
obviously hostile as the conversation
went on. They expressed resentment to-
ward students and the College. The con-
versation broke up when Sergeant Cook
stopped to talk with the group. The three
then went directly to the PiKA house
where they encountered Millen.

Trustees Approve Kuykendall
A News Analysis

By DAVID MCGEE
The Trustee Presidential Search
Committee ended its year-long effort Fri-

day, February 24, when the Board of

Trustees unanimously approved the
committee's recommendation of John
Kuykendall as Davidson’s fifteenth pres-
ident. Kuykendall will take office July 1.

The 18 members of the committee,
chosen from the Trustees, faculty, ad-
ministration, and student body, began
their search last February when Sam
Spencer announced he would resign at
the end of the 1982-83 school year. Dur-
ing the search, members of the commit-
tee did not discuss any of their activities.
The members took an oath not to discuss
the project until after they had recom-
mended a candidate to the Trustees, and
the Board had approved the candidate.

The Process of the Search

The committee received over 300 ap-
plications and nominations, mainly from
the contacts it established during the first

months of the search. The initial pool of
nominations came from Trustees,
alumni, responses from an advertisement
in the Chronicle of Higher Education,
and from about 50 college presidents
across the country. President emeritus
Spencer sent 250 letters to potential con-
tacts and candidates.

Committee Chairman Ben Craig “54
said the committee wanted to select the
best person possible, “not just someone
we could all agree on.” Craig -said the
committee looked mainly at the candi-
dates’ Christian commitment and their
views on the College's Statement of Pur-
pose.

The committee did not establish any
specific criteria for the candidates be-
cause members felt that restrictive re-
quirements would reduce the total pool.
“The candidates we interviewed were
outstanding people: Rhodes scholars,
college presidents, businessmen, attor-

(continued on page 6)

Inside This Week

By DAVID McGEE

“His educational, academic, and personal creden-
tials are impeccable,” said chairman of the Board of
Trustees Fred Stair. “He has distinguished himself as a
student, a teacher, an academic leader, and as a Pre-

sbyterian theologian. John will bring quiet, dignified,

decisive, and progressive leadership to Davidson.”

John W. Kuykendall, 45, graduated from Davidson
in 1959, and is currently chairman of the religion depart-
ment at Auburn University in Alabama. He graduated
cum laude and served as Assistant Dean of Students here
from 1960 to 1962.

He received a bachelor of divinity degree from
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond in 1964, a
master of sacred theology degree from Yale Divinity
School in 1965, and a master of arts degree in 1972 anda
Ph.D. degree in 1975 in American Religion from Prince-
ton University.

While attending Davidson, he served as president of
the student body and was a Union Carbide and an Agnes
Sentelle Brown scholar. He was a member of Who’s
Who, Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa honor-

ary fraternities, the “D” Club, Scabbard and Blade,
Philanthropic Literary Society, and Phi Delta Theta
fraternity. He also participated in varsity soccer and was
a Lieutenant Colonel in ROTC.

Kuykendall served as Presbyterian campus pastor at _

Auburn University from 1965 until 1970 and interim
Presbyterian campus pastor at Princeton University in
1971-72. He joined the department of religion at Auburn
in 1973 as an instructor, became an assistant professor in
1975, associate professor in 1980 and chairman of the
department in 1981. In 1981 and 1982 he was selected
by student groups as the most outstanding teacher in the
school of Arts and Sciences at Auburn.

He has been a member of the board of the Alabama
Council on Human Relations, a member of the advisory
board of the Lee County (Ala.) Head Start Program, first
vice president of the Alabama Council of College and
University Faculty Presidents and national vice presi-
dent of the Davidson College Alumni Association. At
Auburn he was chairman of the faculty grievance and
welfare committees and was chairman of the University

(continued on page 6)

‘Watsons: Campbell and Moffett receive
prestigous fellowship. Page 3.

‘Kuykendall: President-elect discusses

thoughts on running a college. Page 5.

‘Trip: Concert Choir treks southward to
find no alligators, flying elephants, and good
acoustics. Page 8. Also in Arts and Entertain-
ment: Student-produced play, Irish Poet, and
Other Bright Colors.

-‘Spring!: Out of the Locker Room and
into warm weather sports. Page 12.

‘Brickwork: Campbell and Gunn see

J Harding House incident quickly — slipping

through the cracks. Page 15.

