4 Friday, January 13, 1984/The Davidsonian

1987 Program Reaches $35 Million Campaign Goal

The Davidson 1987 Program, a
Davidson College capital campaign
scheduled for completion during the col-
lege’s sesquicentennial in 1987, has ex-
ceeded its $35 million goal four years
ahead of schedule.

The announcement was made by
former North Carolina Governor James
Holshouser 56, who served as national
chairman of the fundraising effort, which
was the largest in Davidson’s history.
Dean Rusk '31, former U.S. Secretary of
State and a Davidson Rhodes Scholar in
1931, served as honorary chairman.

Major gifts of $150,000 and
$100,000 from two alumni pushed the
total over the $35 million mark.

Discussing the success of the pro-
gram, Interim President Frontis Johnston
praised the “interest, concern, loyalty,
and generosity of those who have grown
to know and love Davidson College.”

Vice-president for Development Jack
Powers singled out one individual for
special mention.

“Much of the credit for the program’s
success is due to President Emeritus
Samuel Spencer Jr., who led the College
throughout most of the campaign,” Pow-
ers said.

Spencer served as Davidson’s presi-
dent for 15 years before leaving last July
to become president of thé Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges.

The Davidson 1987 Program was an-
nounced in 1976 “to help turn the col-
lege’s visions into realities,” as Hol-
shouser said at the time. The original
goals of the program were $19 million
for endowment, $6 million for construc-
tion, and $10 million for annual support.

The gifts and pledges actually re-
ceived represent approximately $13.1
million in endowment and programmatic
support, $9.3 million for construction of
new facilities and renovation of existing
buildings, and $12.6 million through an-
nual giving and other unrestricted gifts.

The College renovated Martin Chem-
ical Laboratory, built two new dor-
mitories and a dining facility, and relo-
cated its shop into renovated space be-
hind the football stadium.

But, because of unforeseen inflation
rates and increases in the cost of higher
education during much of the campaign,
some of the program’s original goals
could not be realized within the $35 mil-
lion budget, Holshouser said. Because of
this, the campaign will continue through
1987 as originally planned.

“The success of the first phase of the
campaign is gratifying until one consid-
ers the projects yet to be completed and
the challenges that await us,” he said.

Several major building projects re-
main to be funded, including a visual arts
facility, a sports center, and new facili-

Grant Dies

(Continued from page /)

Junior Mike Tantillo said, “She al-
ways took the time to help students if
they wre having trouble in her course.
That in itself doesn’t make her particu-
larly unusual at Davidson, but what does
separate her fom many othr professors is
her interest in students’ lives outside the
classroom.”

Manning also said Grant managed to
be “a loving wife and mother as well as a
full-time professor.” She and her hus-
band David Grant, also an associate pro-
fessor of biology at Davidson, taught
Davison students in seminars at the
Duke University Marine Laboratory in
Beaufort, N.C.

“Being willing to transplant your
family to take students and do research
requires a great deal of dedication,”
Manning said. “And I think that’s com-
mendable.”

“She was always fun to talk to, and if

oho Mes interested sharpest yor 2s 38

what she thought,” Manning said. “Dis-
cussions with her . . . made me realize
that she knew what she was doing and
kept up with current developments in her
field...

Grant contributed to numerous or-
ganizations at Davidson, including the
Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships
Committee and the Minorities Commit-
tee. She was a member. of the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church, where she
sang in the choir.

A memorial service was held Satur-
day afternoon at 2 p.m. with Davidson
College Presbyterian Church minister
Charles E. Raynal officiating and music
chosen and performed by Jane Cain.

The family requested that in lieu of
flowers, contributions be made to the
Cynthia T. Grant Memorial Fund.

Besides her husband, survivors in-
clude three daughters, Julia Grant; Emily

Bee PE aeok Sse ey YR UR spine ge

Classifieds

Excellent summer counseling oppor-
tunities for men and women who are
interested in serving boys and girls
ages 7-16, guiding them in their phys-
ical, mental and spiritual development.
Only those persons who will dedicate
their wholehearted efforts to help each
individual child develop his or her po-
tential should apply. One must have
ability to teach in one or more of our
specialized activities. College students,
teachers, and coaches should apply.
CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17

miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., isan
¥ fon aor Oe er

ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing,
water skiing, swimming and canoe-
ing), yet an added emphasis is placed
on the land sports (general athletics,
tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back-
packing). Horseback riding, white-
water canoeing and tripping are extras
in our excellent program. For further
information write or call G. William
Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunder-
bird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C.
29710 (803-831-2121).

er be

ye

ties to house the mathematics depart-
ment, computer equipment, and selected
academic disciplines.

In addition, $6 to $12 million will be
needed to complete several endowment
projects currently underway.

These include the Dean Rusk Endow-
ment for International Studies, planned
changes in the Humanities program, the
continuation of the technology literacy
program, and support of endowed pro-
fessorships, student scholarships, and
faculty development.

These projects will require an addi-
tional $25 million, Holshouser said.

Impetus from the campaign already
has been credited with thrusting David-
son into the top ranks of collge fundrais-

The Davidsonian

ing. Davidson is one of fewer than 20
coeducational liberal arts colleges across
the country whose current gifts have to-
taled more than $3 million each year
since 1977.

In 1981-82 Davidson had the most
successful fundraising year in its history
when it received more than $6 million in
current gifts, a figure that was nearly
equalled in 1982-83.

Joining Holshouser and Rusk in lead-
ing the campaign are Fred Stair, chair-
man of Davidson’s board of trustees; E.
Craig Wall Jr., chairman of the develop-
ment committee; Lunsford Richardson
Jr., chairman of the major gifts commit-
tee; and Charles F. Myers, chairman of
the corporate solicitation committee.

now has positions

open in distribution and circulation.

If you are looking for a few hours of work per

week at good pay, contact us at 892-2000,
ext. 148.

YOU NEED DAN
DAN NEEDS YOU!

Join the

DIVERS ALERT

NETWORK

DAN FILLS A NEED

DAN unites hyperbanc chamber facilities into a nationwide Communications Network to help
divers and ther physicians arrange consultation. transportation, and treatment by using a single

central emergency telephone number

information. *

FOR DIVING EMERGENCIES CALL (919) 684-8111

24 HOURS 7 DAYS A WEEK
FOR INFORMATION CARL (919) 684-2948 MONDAY-FRIDAY 9-5 E.5.T.

DAN NEEDS YOU

The cost of providing this invaluable national serice is high Startup funding was prowded by tne
federal government but not continued Do your part by becoming a member of DAN which will
help insure the conunuing existence of DAN as well as provide you with diving safety

JOINING DAN —$10

Indmdual membership,in Danis $10 per year — a small sum to insure there will be somebody able
to help you immediately in the event of an accident

On joining you will receive:

Tap QU +

MEMPERSHIR CARD with the DAN ohane aumber ANG hetnk avana wu sou eames
PANIC DET Aco itt the Cniv-erergency’pnone number"

aay

e The DAN UNDERWATER DIVING ACCIDENT MANUAL which describes symptoms
and first aid for the mayor diving related injunes plus gutdelines a physician can follow for

drugs and iv. uid administravon

@ ANEWSLETTER, “ALERT DIVER", presents information on diving medicine and diving
safety. Actual DAN case histones and questions are presented in each issue

(1 Yes. ! wish toyoin the National Divers Alen
Network (DAN). and enclose my member-
ship fee of 510. Please send my new
member's package as soon as 1s possible
{Please allow 3-6 weeks for delivery }

C? | am enclosing an extra tax deductible
donation of $

CORPORATE MEMBERS
Tax deductible corporate membership is en-
couraged. Please write for more information.

Supporning Organizations
“NASDS @ NAU! @ PADI @ SS! @ USA @ YMCA

NAME

AQDRESS

AGENCY
Check if you are a:
Dinstructor

Cade shop operator = C] physician

Mai to DIVERS ALERT NETWORK
BOX 3823 @DUKE UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA 27710
