6. Friday, February 47, 1984/The Davidsonian

By PEGGY PIEROTTI
Various presidents have been known
to raise everything from funds to ques-
tions to families to eyebrows. David-
son’s interim president, _‘ Frontis
Jghnston, however, maintains this tradi-

President Johnston

Frontis Johnston oversees his greenhouse

Ge bad

tion of raising things in his own manner
— for the past 20 years he has raised
camelias.

A camelia is a species of flowering
shrub that originated in East Asia.
Johnston himself has over 80 varieties in

Peggy Pierotti

his private greenhouse. The flowers
bloom between January and March, de-
pending on the climate, and range in
color from red to white. There are an al-
most infinite number of variations of
these colors, but Johnston notes that “no

one has completed the search for the yel-
low camelia.”

Although Johnston began his her-
baceous hobby by raising azaleas and
boxwoods, his attendence at a Charlotte
camelia club show and the encourage-
ment of other camelia growers soon led
to his change. He now is a member of a
Charlotte camelia club.

When asked about competitions,
Johnston admitted that he “had modestly
competed, but only two or three times
outside of Charlotte.” More enthusiastic
competetors can compete every weekend
during the winter.

Johnston claims that his love of plant
cultivation stems from his early years at
Davidson. The camelias “took me out of
the office” and provided him with a reli-
able means of relaxation.

ws Greenhouse Camelias

Unfortunately, this year the camelias
have been neglected, Johnston realizes,
due to his lack of time and busy schedule.
This winter’s bad weather also damaged
a part of the roof of the greenhouse and
froze the buds. The camelias, however,
are hearty bushes back in beautiful
bloom.

Peggy Pierotti

— Kilms

Weir Brings Hollywood

By MATT MORRIS

The Year of Living Dangerously (Au-
stralian, 1982) Directed by Peter Weir.
Starring Mel Gibson,
Weaver, and Linda Hunt.
Guide: ***]/2

Sigourney
Viewer's

The Year of Living Dangerously is a
perfect title for Peter Weir’s new film.
Easily his must accessible movie — and
his best — Dangerously daringly grafts
an old Hollywood sensibility onto a
quasi-Vietnam background — mysti-

cism, confusion, and deep-seated
paranoia wander around Rick’s Café in
Casablanca. This strange combination is
a delight — a Clark Gable romance for
smart people. Perhaps Weir has created
new genre for film historians to babble
about.

Like a kaleidoscope, the plot con-
stantly shifts, jumping into sub-plots,
sub-characters, each having a direct ef-
fect. on everything else. Mel Gibson
plays an English journalist sent to In-
donesia in 1965, during the dangerous

time when communists were about to re-
move Sukarno and his regime. The
claustrophobic camera heightens the
fragility of the political scene. Gibson's
life is further endangered when he meets
and subsequently falls in love with Gov-
ernmental Girl Sigourney Weaver. Enter
Old Hollywood, with sweet smiles and
sweet romances. Yet as said before, this
old sensibility works — where people
fall in love in the rain (a particularly
beautiful scene), or over a martini by a
swimming pool. If anything, the warmth

An American Playmate’s Shattered Dream

By MATT MORRIS

Star 80 Produced and directed by
Bob Fosse. Starring Eric Roberts,
Mariel Hemingway, and Cliff
Robertson. Rated R. Viewer’ s Guide: **
*1/2

Director Bob Fosse has once again
dug deep into the junkpile of America
looking for some sort of truth, and Star
80, a flesh and fantasy tale, is what he’s
found. Right from the first image on the
screen to the fade out, human flesh
pounds, pushes, carresses, is photo-
graphed, and finally kills. The fantasy
springs out of the characters much more
slowly, oozing from their souls. Ulti-
mately, these dreams of fame and fortune
turn on the characters, with tragic re-
sults. Indeed, there is no real Star 80; in
this film, everyone is in search of a royal
throne on top of the heap. The obvious
camera-eye-gun analogy is kept at a min-
imum — this is a movie about touching,
and the desperation felt when no one is
there to repond.

The the sad story of Playmate of the
Year Dorothy Stratten and her husband-
manager Paul Snider is a confusing tale,
overflowing with “shattered American

dreams.” Just as it appeared that Stratten
was to take off into films, Snider mur-
dered her and then turned the gun on him-
self. Fosse believes that Snider was a
slightly schizophrenic guy (in every
shot of him there is a mirror — a split
self) who, as much as anyone in Ameri-
ca, wanted to make it big. His ultimate
impotence towards Dorothy — his ambi-

tions embodied — is finally corrected
when he blows her head off with a shot-
gun.

And what does that leave us? Well,
on the plus side newcomer Eric Roberts
tRaggedy Man) gives a mesmerizing per-
formance as Paul Snider. Roberts plays
Snider as a frustrated would-be pimp, a
caricature of human ambition and loneli-
ness. He is crazy, though, and Roberts
lets us hear Snider’s craziness through
his whining voice, which rises and falls
like achild’s. A strange, pathetic charac-
ter who is somehow hard not to like,
Roberts’ Snider deserves an Academy
Award.

As Dorothy, Mariel Hemingway is
less successful; she needs to explore her
character’s eccentricities. Dorothy is lit-

_tle more than a Barbie doll and, because

the audience can’t. identify with her,
Hemingway’s actions often make little
sense. Why doesn’t Dorothy see Snider
early on as the looney he is? As Stratten,
Hemingway makes it tough to figure out
why, but in some frustrated sense this no-
acting approach works. Dorothy, like all
centerfolds hanging in gasoline stations,
is a non-entity, someone everyone at-
taches aspirations to — directors try to
bottle her up in fantasy films, adoles-
cents try to bottle her up in their sex fan-
tasies, and Snider kills her because of his
fame and fortune fantasy.

Fosse’s “‘state of the art” editing tech-
nique (voice-overs, narrations, freeze-
frames) is at first enticing, but by the end
of the film it becomes as glittery as the
California background. The final, hor-
rifying shot of the murder, plus an oh-
how-ironic voice-over of Dorothy, is un-
necessary and ineffective. Yet Fosse
does have a great time with the music,
and the film has a nice “choreographed”
look. A musical at heart, Star 80 often
sounds better than it looks. A real mixed
bag, Star 80 is a bloody, sometimes rich
and absorbing film. Its theme is univer-

re Se

Sensibility To Asia

of the relationship emphasizes the terror
about the couple. On their first date, Gib-
son flees from armed soldiers in a joy-
fully romantic car chase.

Enter Indonesian Billy Kwan, a
midget ideologist who believes in
Sukarno and in Gibson’s ability to report
honestly the world around him. Kwan is
a virtuous Yoda-like sage who dreams,
and through his talents with a camera,
fights for a civilized, well-fed Indonesia.
With Gibson on his side, it appears that
Billy Kwan can’t lose.

The female Linda Hunt plays the
male Billy Kwan, and she is remarkable.
Kwan represents the old Indonesia, the
world that believes, and his destruction
halfway through the film is the greatest
of tragedies. Gibson’s William Holden
cynicism, paired with the visionary
Hunt, makes for a great, often comedic
team. Stepping out of the Alien world,
Sigourney Weaver shows she can not
only fake a British accent, she can act as
well. Her character is that fun-loving
teenager who never quite grows up —
similar to Debra Winger in appearance
and manner, she is the kind of person that
can bring even tough-guy Gibson down
to innocence.

However, this lightness does not last
— Weir’s musical soundtrack belies this.
Haunting synthesizers pound a heartbeat
to the romantic interludes that is\both
sensually hopeful and cardiac. The last
half hour of the film is a bracing dose of
chaos, before the final gratifying
shot.(To reveal any more of the plot
would spoil a great movie.) The film re-
tains a grainy feel, at times documentary-
like, adding to the realism. The Year of
Living Dangerousty \ooks as if it were
made in 1965. The music pounds away to
the last image, and one wonders where
the next heart attack will occur. Recom-
mended.
