>

ah

oe
Q

Friday, January 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

Don’t Run Away From Arms Control Issue

Mike Wilkinson

I was talking to someone the other day about the nu-
Clear arms situation our country faces today. As soon as I
brought it up though, I looked across at the person I was
supposed to be talking to, and she was quickly turning
pale and stuttering in her-attempts to change the subject.
At one more mention of the issue, I realized I had really
blown it. She had quickly. made a U-turn and was run-
ning away from me as a fast as she could.

No, this didn’t happen to me, but I sometimes feel as
though there is an absolute moratorium on nuclear arms
conversation, however constructive it may be. Don’t get
me wrong, I often agree . . . who wants to talk about an

_issue which involves the very real threat of destruction of

life on our planet. I'd rather talk about last Saturday
night, upcoming Spring Break, or even intellectual
stuff, but not nuclear arms!

I now see the whole nuclear weapons and war issue
as the single most important concern of our time. Fur-
thermore, I have come to believe that the best way we
can all help fight the many dangers of the whole nuclear
arms situation is to at least understand what is threaten-
ing us. We need a more enlightened student body here at
Davidson; more importantly, we need a responsible, in-
formed and concerned public in our United States and
our world. I don’t believe we are anywhere near this
goal.

So what-do we do about it? I’m not asking that we
have conversations only about nuclear arms — that

would be horrible. I am asking that we don’t become my
hypothetical conversation partner and run away at the
mention of the word nuclear. We must face the most im-
portant issue of our time by talking about it, learning
about it, and writing about it. One thing I can certainly
do is let everybody have access to my opinion. Who
knows? Maybe someone will read this! So let me try to
back up this claim of mine a little more substantially.

Speaking in a general sense, we live in a representa-
tive democracy which is based on the premise that the
people run their government, however indirect that rule
may be. The nuclear issue is a military matter, and mili-
tary matters have often been kept secret. Nuclear war,
however, is a matter which far exceeds the sole jurisdic-
tion of the military; nuclear war directly and personally
concerns any human.being who wishes to survive on this
earth. Nuclear war very simply could destroy the human
race. In order for people to think rationally and to offer
intelligent input into this matter concern, they must be
well informed on the nuclear arms issue.

A major problem with government secrecy is that-it
causes a lack of valuable public debate and healthy dis-
cussion. The public easily begins. believing these issues
are only for government experts to consider. And, as
Howard Morland (a well-established authority on nucle-
ar issues) asserts, “This self-imposed restraint only en-
trenches further those who are committed to the arms
race.” An example of effective public outrage is em-
bodied in the Limited Test Ban Treaty of 1963 (signed
by the USSR, the U.S. and the U.K.). This was one of
the most important treaties concerning nuclear weapons
in our short nuclear history. Significantly, it was partly a

result of widespread public outcry against the serious
health hazards posed by the testing of nuclear weapons.
Had the testing remained a government secret, who
knows in what shape our atmosphere would exist today?

As the public become informed, those not very inter-
ested may be shocked into realizing the salience of this
issue and may at least show some type of interest where
none existed previously. For those more concerned
people, educational materials shold be readily available
so that they may take an active interest based on substan-
tive knowledge and facts. They must be well-informed
on the nuclear issue to argue effectively and support their
position against false arguments, as well as to be able to
distinguish between propaganda and well-documented
evidence. The hope of any democratic society rests on a
responsible citizenry. With respect to this issue, we must
have an informed public before we can have a responsi-
ble citizenry.

Davidson has already taken a step in the right direc-
cion. There is now a course in Nuclear Arms (Cen. 242).
I’m in that course, and it is definitely raising my aware-
ness of the nuclear arms issue.

By the way, if you see me coming up to talk to you,
don’t run, I'll probably want to talk about last Saturday
night, upcoming Spring Break, or even intellectual stuff
. . . probably not nuclear arms. . . but don’t count on it.

Wilkinson is a junior Center International Politicul
Economy major from Wilmington, N.C.

Room of the College Union we will have
a panel of coaches including Athletic Di-
rector and Head Football Coach Ed Far-
rell, Head Basketball Coach Bobby Hus-
sey, and men’s and women’s minor sport
coaches. Also we will have a representa-
tive from the Admissions Office avail-
able. The format will be informal and
simple. A brief, background statement of
“how we have evolved to where we are”
will be given; the rest of the time will be
given over to question-and-answer.

— If you have ever wondered about
the role of athletics at Davidson,

— If you have ever wondered why
they don’t change athletics by. . .,

— If you have ever heard a rumor that
such-and-such went on and you want it
confirmed or denied,

— If you have every voiced your
opinion on athletics here,

I urge you to attend. Bring your ques-
tions, your concerns, your complaints,
your suggestions, and even your compli-
ments. Bring a friend. But please attend.
Jeff Frank

Men’s Tennis Coach

God Hears Me

To the Editors:

Let me begin by stating my religion is
a very personal matter. Between me and
God, to be explicit. Dick Lee’s article in
The Davidsonian, (January 20, 1984),
howeyer, has prompted me to.come forth
and .defend_ the -silent,,: religious-inypri-
vate sector. I heliave it is entirely incor-
Fect to.assume that a Jaok of public religi-

a)

ous display demonstrates a lack of religi-
ous conviction. Conversely, verbose
proclamations do not necessarily prove a
conviction of spirit. Certainly we can all
think of at least one person who can re-
cite the Bible forwards and backwards
while missing every message. Similarly,
membership in a campus Christian or-
ganization is not the sole measure of re-
ligious conviction.

Religious organizations may serve a
vital function for some but I would argue
that others of us have developed spiritu-
ally outside of organized religion, des-
pite Lee’s disbelief. Lee contends that
“Because we students lack self motiva-
tion. . . guidelines set by the college and
its professors . .
to develop spiritually. Students sound
like a bunch of spineless lumps. I resist
this description. Perhaps Lee needs
someone to force him to go to class: 1

don’t. / have decided that I need to go to

class. My professors are not my parents
or my conscience or my cattle-prodders.
I am my own person. I like to think that
most college students are mature enough
to set their own priorities and strive to
reach them not because they are forced
but because they want to reach them.
The thought of 1350 unmotivated
students is actually a very scary idea in
general. If students are not responsible
enough to choose a way of spiritual or
academic development, it seems un-

'» Hikely that these same students could: act
. .fesponsibly in.other facets of their lives. .
wo df-this'is the case; perhaps»the greatest .
«service the College can provide would be :

.” are necessary for us | .

to stop playing big brother and force stu-
dents to grow up. As adults, we will each
need to be able to make decisions,
prioritize, and act with conviction. More
legislated activity could only further
delay the testing of our wings.

A last concern with Lee’s article rests
with the supposition that forced fellow-
ship would be rewarding. Fellowship
cannot be forced on people. Neither can
religion. People must choose to adopt
spiritual beliefs. (As a corollary, I hate to
think that Christianity is so offensive that
it must be forced on anyone. )

I hope that I may somehow reassure
Lee that the silence does not indicate
apathy. If you had asked, I would have
told you sooner. My voice is low but God
hears me. And that’s all that counts, isn’t
it?

Jennifer Spencer
Class Gift
To the Editor:

We would like to urge the Class of
1984 to give serious consideration to the
possibility of linking its class gift to an
important undertaking at Davidson —
the Dean Rusk Endowment for Interna-
tional Studies. The Endowment is an
alumni initiative that seeks to enhance in-
ternational educational opportunities at

Davidson by funding visiting professors,
Davidson-sponsored programs abroad,

and resources for expanding ‘the interna-

tional curriculum. Last year’s graduating

next five years to raise an endowment
fund supporting a need-based scholar-
ship to Davidson. Through a pledged do-
nation, to be used in connection with the
Rusk Endowment name, we can estab-
lish our own tradition by directing our
gift into scholarships for international
study.

A_ 1984 International Scholarship
Fund can have exciting implications —
as an opportunity to diversify the student
body and to broaden its international
component, as a unique Senior Class
gift, distinguishable from among past
gifts; as a signal of support for a program
with interesting possibilities in this its
first year; as a stimulus to increased cam-
pus awareness of the Endowment and of
international education in general; and as
a profound statement of student willing-
ness to participate in the academic evolu-
tion of Davidson College.

The Dean Rusk Endowment will re-
quire more than external endorsement to
permanently enrich the Davidson cam-”
pus atmosphere and curriculum. To ful-
fill its real potential the Endowment will
need continuous internal support from
the students for whom it was created. If
Davidsonians are willing to make the En-
dowment, and international education, a
real concern — and we believe they are
— then this is the year to begin. As
Seniors, through our gift, we can begin.

Elizabeth Smiley

wee a... Carl Rist

«Mary P. Fant

ca 1) deff Mann

Hunter Monroe
