Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

OPINIONS

Proposals ‘To Improve Campus Security

Malcolm Campbell
and

Chris Gunn

The Harding House incident was just too close. It is
also more than a month behind us and rapidly sliding into
that infamous Davidson brickwork, losing its impact
and importance. Both of us — who confronted the po-
tential intruder and rapist as he left the back porch of
Harding House — see the problem fairly clearly.
Through our meetings and contacts with Mayor Mac-
Cormac, President Johnston, Grover Meetze, Chief-of-
Police Warlick, Chief Hughes, Sue Ross, and the SGA,
and through our continued visions of failures of the secu-
rity system, we call for three immediate actions.

First, we ask for the creation of a panel to solve the
town-college security problems as seen in the dispatch-
ing and responding systems. Why did it take close to fif-
teen minutes for the police to arrive at Harding House?
Why did police mistakenly arrive at Henderson House
first? Why were the calls to the dispatcher not recorded
or relayed accurately? Why didn’t the police officers in-
volved ask for a description of he suspect or for our
names? In talking with various town officials and col-
lege administrators, we heard many different answers to
these questions and saw several fingers of causality
pointing in a variety of directions. The picture that be-
came clear in our minds is a divided, multi-faceted one.
All these factions need to come together and together
work on a solution. Thus we call for a panel with town

board members, town police officers, college adminis-
trators, college security officers, and students serving as
members.

Second, awareness needs to be heightened. Every-
one — both students and Davidson residents — must
hear about such incidents and hear about methods of
self-protection. Some campus leaders fear embarass-

ment for rape victims if rapes are publicized. We agree
that the names of the victim need not be publicized.
However, the fact that rapes do occur needs to be recog-
nized by the entire community. For instance, people
should know that there were two rapes on campus last
year. The image of Davidson as a safe, serene place need
not be totally crushed, but a little reality should be tn-

cluded. Various freshmen have told us recently that they
walked away from orientation with an image of David-
son that resembled a Fantasy Island rerun. If people
choose to leave bikes, cars and rooms unlocked, to jog
alone after dark, or to linger in obscure places late at
night, we would like these people to have at least one
small glimpse of a realistic Davidson. To our amaze-
ment, not all the perimeter housing students had heard of
a similar incident involving an intruder found in Harding
House fall term. Thus we call for accurate publicity and
appropriate discussion of these realities through orienta-
tion presentations, freshmen hall meetings, and accurate
news reporting.

Third, in emergencies there is an alternative to the
892-5131 number: 911. This Davidson number (-5131)
handles a variety of problems, including double parking,
forgotten keys, intruders, and rapes. But there have been
countless times when students have called 892-5131 and
have been unable to get an answer: In contrast, the
widely used 911 number is designed solely to handle
emergencies. This number not only guarantees an an-
swer, but also a rapid response; the dispatcher at 911 will
immediately contact a nearby police car. Students need
to know that in real emergencies, the number they
should call is 911.

The Harding House incident was merely the tip of an
iceberg. It represents a problematic situation that has
existed for some time now and unless these steps are
quickly taken, such incidents could increase not only in
number, but also in severity.

Campbell is a senior biology major from Little Rock,
AR. Gunn is a senior psychology major from Peekskill,
NY.

Poll Excludes Value Of Athletics

Coach Jim Sypult

The recent faculty survey of Davidson's athletics
netted expected results: 80 percent felt there was too
much emphasis on sports, namely football. Clearly fac-
ulty members are interested in the intellectual develop-
ment of the students and concerned about expenditures
outside their jurisdiction.

The college, however, cannot base policy on the
opinions of one interest group whose position is en-
hanced by eliminating or reducing another college ex-
penditure, especially when the welfare of the student is
concerned.

As a football coach, I am concerned with the intel-
lectual development and well-being. I, too am a teacher
and as a professional wish to respond to the faculty con-
cerns evidenced in the survey.

‘— “There may be too many football coaches.” Davidson
employs fewer football coaches than any other Southern
Conference school. Two of them serve in dual capacities
(athletic director and wrestling coach), and another
works without pay.

— “Too much money is spent on recruiting ,.equipment,
travel and financial aid.” Football has the lowest overall
budget in the Southern Conference in the areas of equip-
ment and travel, and operates on a recruiting .budget
that’s cut to the bone. Other schools have full scholar-
ship programs whereas Davidson allots monies to foot-
ball players only on the basis of need. Budgets of other
men’s sports at Davidson, for the most part, are compar-
able to Southern Conference schools and therefore, the

teams are more competitive.

— “The football team’s exhaustive practices and
schedule consume study time” and “the academic costs
are too high.” Football, like other sports at Davidson, is
a demanding activity, but the idea that football lowers
academic performance is unproven. Football players
missed three days of classes this year for away games,
which was more than the previous season. Still, these
absences are among the lowest of all athletic teams at

The College ... cannot base
policy on the opinions of one
interest group ... especially
when the welfare of the student
is concerned.

Davidson.

— Faculty members suggest “joining a new conference
and playing schools of similar size and caliber and with
similar academic programs.” This is an excellent sug-
gestion! But due to geographic location, tradition, bas-
ketball exposure, and desires of non-revenue sports, the
Trustees have chosen our direction and consequently the
Conference has determined our football schedule.

— The football program “cannot compete at the present
time unless they are willing to emphasize recruiting and
competition more, which would detract from the col-

lege’s purpose.” Why must superior athletes mean in-
ferior students? Superior athletes mean student diversity
and a more even chance against football opponents. Re-
cruiting and competition have nothing to do with lower-
ing academic standards as demonstrated at Duke. Stan-
ford, and Rice, to name only a few. To say that football

players or any other student athletes lower academic

standards is evidence of prejudice and stereotyping.

— Some faculty seem concerned about the value of com-
petitiveness and fear that Davidson's image will be
harmed in some way by competition on the playing field.
Is competition in the classroom any different?

— “Sports is one visible area where Davidson standards
of excellence are not defined or maintained.” Anything
worth doing is worth doing well. I am a teacher who ex-
pects and demands excellence. The fine young men I an
associated with at Davidson strive for excellence and try
hard to win when they play. If courage, dedication, ef-
fort, attitude, and character measure excellence, then
Davidson’s football players are excellent. If wins meas-
ure excellence, the validity of that measurement rests on
the equality of programs. The football program has been
defined by the Southern Conference, but not upgraded.
So the scales are unbalanced.

— “Forums and faculty meetings open up channels of
communication and allow people to make their cases and
reconcile problems.” Amen. But if we are to seek the
truth and make decisions based on the needs and inter-
ests of the students, then coaches and athletes must be
represented and heard in order to reach intelligent and
fair conclusions.

Sypult is an Assistant Football Coach at Davidson.
