8 Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian

OPINIONS

U.S. Central American Policy Must Change

Dr. Jason Thompson |

In the last year I have been frustrated at the lack of
visible reaction at Davidson to events in Latin America,
such as the U. S. invasion of Grenada and the CIA min-
ing of the Nicaraguan harbor. A group of students and I
have formed a group Latin American Policy Alternatives
(LAPA) to react to such events and express our outrage.
Public opinion can influence a government policy as wit-
nessed by the U.S. congress (in the wake of the news of
the mining incident) postponing Reagan’s request for
$21 million in increased aid to CIA operations in
Nicaragua.

We are also formulating a policy statement to pro-
vide an alternative to Reagan’s confrontational strategy
in Central America. Our priorities include the foHowing:

1. Food, clothing, and shelter for the people of Latin
America.

2. Equal access to political freedom and justice.

3. Equal access to economic opportunity.

Reagan, on the other hand, views the problem in
Central America in terms of East-West conflict.
Wednesday night (May 9) he even stated that the PLO
and Libya have a significant role in armed struggle in
Latin America! He believes that we must use military aid
to defeat communism and make Central America safe
for democracy. Supporting the Salvadoran military and
former Nicaraguan National Guard for democracy and
justice is like having sex for virginity. Militarizing the
area is tearing it apart and killing its people. The problem

in Central America is not communism, it is inequality
and poverty.

“If we offered the people access to economic opportu-
nity and social justice, why would they turn to the Soviet

Union? Of course, given our track record of intervention
in the area (60 times since 1846!), it may take a while to
win their trust. But if the U.S. showed over the years a
commitment in Latin America to promoting the Jefferso-
nian values our country stands for domestically, I be-
lieve we could make friends with the people of Latin
America. In order to make friends, we need to develop
Strategies for non-manipulative aid. These strategies
would preclude using aid as a political weapon to further
our political goals or to ptomote a business climate fa-
vorable to U.S. investors.

In other words, we have to stop using aid to reward
governments who implement policies we like. In fact,
we should try to bypass the governments and put the
money directly into the hands of the people who need it.
The people of El Salvodor do not need $8 million loans
or $8 billion loans, they need loans of $100 or $500 to
buy cows, some seed, and parcels of land so they can
support themselves. According to a Wall Street Journal
article on February 7, 1984, $479.1 million of unused
Central American aid money is backlogged in the aid
pipeline because of inadequate administrative abilities

payments problems. The Kissinger Commission Report
was remiss in not mentioning the need to allow Central
American countries to increase exports to the U.S. to
earn the foreign exchange to develop their economies.
The flow of dividends, fees, and royalties out of Latin
America to the U.S. is 33 percent higher than the flow of
U.S. private capital into the area!

On the other hand, hundreds of private aid groups
such as Oxfam America, Inter-American Foundation,
American Friends Service, Bread for the World, and
World Neighbors are getting the money directly to
where it is needed. Economics Professor Charles Ratliff
has worked for years on a proposal for a World Develop-
ment Fund that he designed to provide non-manipulative
aid to the Fhird World. Implementing this type of pro-
gram requires looking at the world in a less ideological
way than Reagan seems capable of.

If we respected the right of Latin Americans to revo-
lutionary change in their societies even if their paths
(mixing capitalism and socialism) are different from the
revolution in this country, we would be on the road to
achieving the priorities outlined above. Uphoiding the

Supporting the Salvadoran military and the former Nicaraguan
National Guard for democracy and justice is like having sex
for virginity. Militarizing the area is tearing it apart and killing

its people.

of receiving governments and U. S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development(AID).

Most U.S. aid is now in the form of loans that must
be repaid, and 70 to 80 percent of the money comes back.
to the U.S. through stipulations requiring that the money
be spent here. These countries already have balance of

goodness of capitalism and the badness of combining
socialism and capitalism will only push the revolu-

tionaries further to the left and bring more bloodshed and
suffering.

Thompson is an Assistant Professor of economics.

Questions Of Gold Lost In Issues Of Brass

T. Hartley Hall V

I sat the other night to read William Faulkner’s
Nobel Prize acceptance speech and realized that it spoke
to an emotion which has been living and growing inside
of me for some time now. To:paraphrase Faulkner’s
words, Our tragedy today is a general and universal rele-
many ~so long sustained by now:that we can even bear

” People, it seems, must always find something to
complain about. If just once we would stop and ac-
knowledge the contented beauty of the apple instead of
harping on the ugliness of the worm.

We are young, driving, and idealistic. How easy it is
to forget where we have been and how far.we. haye.come...
— to forget that which is ; truly important. How éasy it is
to fall into the sordid trap of relevency; sacrificing our
own responsibility to the whole for the sake of the im-
mediate. We lose sight of the good in our drive to eradi-
cate the.bad. And issues themselves inconsequential are
raised to traumatic import by faithlessly passionate voi-
ces, petty and trite, and indignant, that advance and
clamor for utterance.

Our emotions and sympathies are overloaded by
each new crisis carefully articulated to be of a life and
death urgencey: Each new issue becomes very impor-
tant, and our emotions are so thouroughly bombarded

from all sides seeking.to.enlist our support that we be-,:;

come numbed to any new catalyst for action.

_. The truth is, that each new crisis always seems to
have misread or misinterpreted some aspect of the great-
er issue and we find ourselves hesitant. The much touted
problems of the Honor Council and its so-called lack of
accountability loses sight of the greater contribution that
this institution makes to the Davidson community. The
question of representation in the SGA ignores the fact

Each new issue becomes so
very important, and our very
emotions. are so thoroughly
bombarded from all sides. ...

x aiteids Gyno teen etree

“that we become numbed to any
new Catalyst for action.

that the people. serving there are elected in a perfectly
legitimate manner — and ignores the fact that those
people are not somehow semi-devine, as seems to be ex-
pected of them. The recent uproar about the ATC ne-
glects the fact that the ATC too must meet a budget.

I have recently heard so much complaining about the
housing office that I have concluded that people do not
realize that there are constraints over which the housing

_ Office has no.control: The race question, one of obvious

importance, has reached such a height that the various
sides have ostracized the very péople they seek to enlist
— polarizing and categorizing through inflammed reto-
ric that so many find it difficult to support any side with-
out taking on too much excess baggage.

No one, it seems, seeks to win support, but instead to
look out at whatever the going issue is and thereby leave
even those that may wish to offer support in a numbed
daze.

Mankind, as Faulkner asserts, may well prevail. We
may well be immortal beacause we have a “spirit capable
of compassion and sacrifice and endurance.” But of this
I am sure, that if mankind is to prevail in this spirit of
greatness, we will have to learn to exist side by side and
in defiance of the inpalpable, soul-grating grist, the puny

_ inexhaustible voice which debases questions of gold
" With issues of brass and loses the problems of the heart in

the retoric of the glands.

We must remember always our responsibility to that
which is right. The heart must remain high and the spirit
wide — forever resisting the shallow and petty. We must
be as the prop, the pillar to help mankind endure and pre-
vail, because there will always be these times, like the
foreboding reassurance of a seven-year locus, when the

.glands will swell, and the small maggotry of the earth

will stir — and up will be raised the puny inexhaustible
voice — bitching.

Hall is‘a junior econmics major trom Richmond, VA: :
