6 Wednesday, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Shi’s New Book

Examines
Simple Living

By IDA PHILLIPS

“Simplicity in its essence demands neither a vow of
poverty nor a life of rural homesteading. As an ethic of
self-conscious material moderation, it can be practiced
in cities and suburbs, townhouses and condominiums. It
requires neither a log cabin nor a hairshirt but a deliber-
ate ordering of priorities so as to distinguish between the
necessary and superfluous, useful and wasteful, beauti-
ful and vulgar.”

This description of simplicity reflects the discoveries
made by history professor David Shi in his recent book,
The Simple Life. Subtitled Plain Living and High Think-
ing in American Culture, Shi’s book examines the vary-
ing forms of simple living which have been pursued
throughout American history by groups as diverse as the
Quakers and the hippies.

In a recent interview, Shi explained his initial inter-
est in a study of the simple life: “During the late 1970s,
in the midst of the national discussion concerning the
energy and ecological crises, I was struck by President
Carter’s attempt to promote traditional patterns of plain
living and high thinking. As a cultural historian |
realized that his message had been delivered by many
previous statesmen and public officials. So I decided to
try to trace the ideal of simple living in its various man-
ifestations through the course of American history,
focusing on representative groups and individuals.”

According to Shi, the simple life cannot be encom-
passed in a concise definition. The many Americans
who have pursued simple living throughout history have
done so in a great variety of ways. Yet Shi found a com-
mon denominator among the people: “One of my first

discoveries was the ambiguity entailed in the concept of
the simple life. There have been and still are many ver-
sions of simple living in the American experience. Some
people have been almost primitive in their simplicity;
some have been quite affluent. What they held in com-
mon, I decided, was the belief that material desires and
activities should not be allowed to compromise ‘higher’
concerns — family, community, faith, aesthetic enjoy-
ment, self-culture. That is, one should carefully or-
ganize one’s life around the principle of enlightened ma-
terial restraint.”

Dr. David Shi

Shi discovered that the nature of American society
has made the pursuit of “material restraint” an increas-
ingly difficult task. He concluded, “The simple life has
always been, and probably always will be, a minority
doctrine. This is not hard to understand. Human nature
leads us to want more and more things and constantly
wars against simplicity. I do think, however, that it was
much easier in previous centuries to lead such a life than
today, since the hedonistic imperatives of our consumer-
oriented economy are so powerful and ever-present.”

The phrase, “plain living and high thinking,”
suggests that the simple life involves more than just liv-
ing simply. Shi attributed the phrase to Wordsworth,
saying, “Emerson borrowed it and used it repeatedly to
describe the core of his Transcendental ethic. I borrowed
it to help further define what I meant by simple living.
My concern as an intellectual and cultural historian was
not simply to examine those who live at a subsistence
level but rather to examine those Americans who con-
sciously chose to simplify their lives in order to engage
in preferred forms of ‘high thinking.’

Shi believes that the “enriching experience” of writ-
ing historical inquiries benefits him both as a teacher and
a historian. Not only does research and writing
strengthen his historical knowledge, he finds that often

this acquired knowledge is “directly relevant to my
courses.” In the case of The Simple Life, his subject mat-
ter applies to his own life as well, for Shi contends that
“college teaching almost necessarily entails a commit-
ment to plain living and high thinking.”

Shi has also written Matthew Josephson: Bourgeois
Bohemian, for which he received a Pulitzer Prize nomi-
nation in 1981. He has contributed to such magazines as
American Heritage, Sojourners, and Virginia Quarterly
Review. He is currently working on The Strenuous Era:
Realism in American Thought and Culture.

Peggy Pierotti

On Mozart's Hair
And Tobacco

First there was Warren Beatty as John Reed, the
“Red” we'd all love to love. Then came Ben Kingsley as
the adorable Gandhi, and nonviolence “arrived.” Sam
Shepard as Chuck Yeager was logical enough, and now
we have yet another in the pantheon of history’s interest-
ing people turned into long movies: Mozart, played by
Animal House’s Tom Hulce.

The future of Mozart after his incarnation in
Amadeus seems clear enough.

First, Christmas season is the children’s season, and
what better way to get some highbrow culture to your
kids than through the Amadeus Team (you can call them
the A-Team) series of action figures. Imagine the fun as
Salieri ruins Wolfie again and again, as Figaro belts out
those arias, as those asylum lunatics rattle those bars.

Then, for the family, we have All-Amadeus Trivia
for those cold winter nights. How much gold did Mozart
get for the Requiem Mass? What are Mozart's last words
in the film? How long did it take for Hulce to cultivate
that laugh?

MORE OR LESS

By
ANN MEADOR

a LE a

Finally, the Franklin Mint proudly introduces its
latest collector’s edition: Mozart's Hair. A limited edi-
tion (limited to whoever will buy it) of 32 historically re-
searched wigs, lovingly reproduced in the finest acetate
and Herculon for easy laundering. From pink to white,
curly to straight, all the hair you see in Amadeus is avail-
able to the discerning collector.

Christmas just got a little greener.

Chewing the Fat Beats This

Imagine all the junk on the floor of the Par 4: Hunks
of cigarettes, little pieces of dirt, dissociated Fritos bags.
Then imagine putting it in your mouth and chewing it.
This is Red Man.

I along with three other young women chewed to-
bacco last weekend, and we didn’t even get any money
for it. Our sole motivation: to say we did it, those
dangerous words.

It was all because of two things: Thomas and his bag
of Red Man. There he sat, pleasantly chewing his to-
bacco. (“You don’t actually chew it,” he told us), lean-
ing casually over the deck rail to spit, nonchalantly re-
suming his position. Within a few minutes he had us be-
lieving it was fun.Relaxing I think he even said.

Next Week: The More or Less Holiday Parade of
Homes.

Boston Camerata Recreates Medieval Christmas Celebration

by BILL BUGG

The celebration of Christmas in medieval times was
as rich and diverse as it is foreign to the modern ear. And
with all the color of a dozen ancient instruments and
human voices, with all the diversity of 600 years of
music, The Boston Camerata performed a Christmas
celebration in the spirit of the age Sunday night for the
Artist Series. Director Joel Cohen united the diversity
through a synthesis of voice and instrument, music and
drama, paganism afid Christianity, centering the cele-
bration on the theme of Christ’s birth.

Sunday’s program was varied: the concert spanned
the late middle ages to the early Renaissance, and in-
cluded elements of both pagan rituals of winter solstice
and the observation of Christmas. It features a variety of
instruments (from the psaltry, a type of zither then
thought to have been played by King David, to the
shawm, a colorful reed instrument related to the oboe);
voices (from low bass to high countertenor and soprano);
and pieces (from processions to chants). Yet through the
variety, the Camerata illuminated the beauty and rich-
ness of an age of tensions; in its medieval celebration it
revealed the depth and complexity of our own celebra-
tion of Christmas.

The concert was divided into five sections. The first,
Prophecies, blended the Hebrew prophecies with the
traditions of theChurch. Beginning with a procession,
basses John Clark and John Cohen sang from the aisles
the Hebrew cantillation, “Unto us asonis born. . . "In
Gabriel’s prophecy, a 12th century Franco-Provencal

piece, the counter-tenor Ken Fitch sang a beautiful, pen-
etrating melody: “He is coming, the bridegroom .. . ~
The section concluded with a rich instrumental 12th cen-
tury work based on a fragment of a Gregorian chart.

The second section, Waiting, began with the Grego-
rian plain chant Conditor abue siderum. A reading of
John 1:1 followed from a 10th century Old Saxon manu-
script: “In the beginning was God, and the word was
God, and the word was with God...” The section
concluded with an a cappella 12th century work, Judea
et Jerusalem, which consisted of simple melodic verses
coupled with verses of soft, two- to four-part polyphony.

Another procession surprised the audience in the
third section, The Mother of God. Three women
marched from the back of the auditorium to the accom-
paniment of recorder and triangle in the 12th century
French Gideonis aurea. Next came the Gregorian plain-
chant Ave maris stella (Hail, star of the sea, mother of
God) in alternation with O Maria, deu maire, a \2th cen-
tury sacred Provencal version of the Gregorian hymn. A
reading of Geoffrey Chaucer’s O moder maide followed
in Old English.

After intermission, the fourth section, the Christmas
Story, narrated events of Jesus’ birth through a mixture
of instrumental works, choral songs, and scripture read-
ings from Wycliffe’s Bible (circa 1380). The audience
was invited to participate in a German 14th century work
that turned out to be the familiar Christmas carol, /n
Dulci Jubilo: “Good Christian men rejoice . . . ”

In the last section, The Shepherds, the Camerata per-

formed the First Shepherd’s Play, a drama that sum-
marized the essence of the Christmas celebration and the
whole evening. Three shepherds argued over a bottle of
wine and verses in Virgil, and sang a drinking song.
Upon drinking themselves to sleep, angels called out
from the balcony, “Hark, shepherds awake . . . ”; astar
appeared in the balcony in the form of a candle, and the
shepherds followed it. At the sight of the Christ child,
they knelt and worshipped, singing the melody of the
drinking song with the words: “Hail wondrous virgin;
we adore your Child.”

The evening ended with two opposing works appro-
priately representing the complex nature of an age of
synthesis between the Christian and the pagan, the

Church and the common man, instrument and voice. The

first, a 14th century English work called Hand by hand
we shule us take, was a solemn, deep instrumental piece.
The second, Orientis partibus, a light, vocal work,
translates: “From the east appears the donkey, strong
jawed and eloquent: He haw, noble sir ass!” As Joel
Cohen said, “The celebration of Christmas, in the Mid-
dle Ages as today, was as colorful and complex as man
himself.”

The Boston Camerata was founded in 1954 by Nar-
cissa Williamson as a performing extension of the Col-
lection of Musical Instruments at the Museum of Fine
Arts in Boston. It is one of only a handful of groups per-
forming early music in the United States. Under the di-
rection of Joel Cohen it has conducted several tours a

. year in addition to series of concerts in New England.
