Friday, November 2, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

,

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Depressed?
The Reason
Is Scarier

Than You
Think.

We sat around the dinner table last night, picking at
our pizza and wondering idly how the broccolli could
be so breathtakingly greensNothing seemed right: the
conversation lagged, the Commons smelled funny, and
most of the wood-grained veneer had come off our
trays. What had got into us?

“IT bombed a test,” Ellen said. No, we decided, that
was Sad but it wasn’t the problem.

“I skipped eight classes this week,” Elizabeth
offered. Impressive, we said, but it didn’t explain the
pall which had fallen over our coterie.

It was Tom who knew, who sensed the core of the
problem deep in himself and in us all. “I know!” he
exclaimed, bouncing his Jell-O off the salt shaker. “Of
course! We’re all suffering from it! It’s post-pumpkin
depression! We’re miserable!”

And he was right. As plain as the big, plastic noses
and fake lips still on our faces, we hadn’t seen that the
day after Halloween was going to be tough indeed.
None of us had removed our costumes, for we had
been wearing them so long in anticipation that we had
grown used to them. The day we had waited for — All
Hallow’s Eve — was gone, gone, and we hadn’t even
been to the SAE party.

MORE OR LESS}

By
ANN MEADOR

“We should have prepared ourselves. We should
have known it wouldn't last,” Elizabeth moaned.

“I’m just crushed,” Ellen sighed. “I wish the Union
Café ladies still had multicolored hair. I miss that
scaaaary mood music.”

“I liked pretending the DCPC clock was a full
moon,” Tom groaned. “I may go howl at it again
tonight just for old time’s sake.”

Our nostalgia about the previous night bolstered
our mood. Elizabeth got all excited and suggested we
start a PPD rap group. “We could meet at that old
haunted house near College Street . .

“Sure,” I said, “as long as Dean Terry doesn’t
mind. Maybe he misses Halloween too.”

Kitty Hawk Yikes

How ‘bout that hang gliding demonstration
Tuesday night? I am told the thermals in front of the
Union are spectacular — you can glide for hours
between Martin Science and the Union if you're really
good.

Mais Oui Decorating Showcase

During the Early Winter Term Entertainment
Season we plan to present The First-Probably-Only
Annual Davidsonian/More or Less Parade of Homes.
In the tradition of Town & Country and Architectural
Digest we will show you the finest in Davidson décor
— on campus or off — complete with beautiful
photographs. If you would like to nominate your room
or a friend’s room for inclusion in the Parade, contact
the Davidsonian office or the Parade of Homes office
at 892-5818. Deadline for nominations is pretty
soon, but don’t knock yourself out. We're looking for
the beautiful, the exotic, the technically amazing, and
the essence of Davidson College student housing. We
expect a phenomenal response to this exciting chance

to show all of Davidson how you live.

. you know. . .”

The Producers: Wayne Famous, Bryan Holmes, Van Temple, and Kyle Henderson.

New Sound Gets Second Chance

By STEVE MANK

A long time ago, pop music was synonymous with
popular music. But after a while it became a genre unto
itself.

New Wave bands like The Squeeze, and Elvis Cos-
tello and the Attractions defined pop as something that
could be cool.

About that time another pop group was gestating in
the minds of some inconsequential Atlanta lounge band.
After various lineup changes, Van Temple, Wayne Fa-
mous, Bryan Holmes and Kyle Henderson came to-
gether as The Producers.

CBS, always in search of the next big thing, signed
the boys in hopes of having a good act to jump on the
new wave bandwagon. Now, The Producers have left
CBS and have struck out on their own.

Their first, self-titled LP did rather well, and the
single, “What's He Got” made a good showing, espe-
cially in Florida and California.

The sound was fresh and fun with Police-like reggae
passages, biting/soothing guitars and crystaline vocals a
la Cheap Trick, and a pop musical persona that at times
rivals the kings of bubblegum themselves, The Mon-
keys. They didn’t lack substance, they just didn’t flaunt
It.

But committing oneself to pop music is not as easy as
one might think. According to guitarist Temple, “We
got caught in the [Record Company] machinery. They
only marketed in one region at a time, so our single could
never be'a national hit.”

After the dust settled from the first LP, the company
decided that all the critical praise did not equal enough

public praise, which did not equal enough revenues.

It was the company’s option to either release another
album or release the group. The verdict: new record, less
money.

Nothing was really wrong with that; The Producers
wanted their next LP to be rawer anyway. But CBS’ new
vote of confidence (or lack thereof) was certainly a slap
in the band’s collective face.

The next LP didn’t do as well as the first. Seemed the
company thought that promoting costs were better spent
elsewhere. In rock and roll you don’t make it to the top
unless someone — some rich someone — pushes you
there.

That was 1982. The third album was the band's op:
tion. Release more music or release CBS.

The band doesn’t have a record label anymore. The
band doesn't even have a manager anymore. In fact, The
Producers released just about everyone but their fans.

Now, two years and one personnel lineup later (bas-
sist Tim Smith replaced Henderson) the group still sells
out. But plans are different now. It's time to start from
scratch.

“After we left CBS, a couple companies were inter-
ested, but we want to do the next one [album] on our
own,” Temple said.

“We're not touring —
and some we turn down. But we're going to take some
time out to make a new album.”

With all those obstacles set in The Producers’ path
you'd expect them to be disillusioned by pop they
aren't. Temple explains: “I'd say we're real happy right
now. We're just giving it a second chance.”

we only play individual gigs.

BSCTo Hold Fashion Show Sat. Night

By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

This Saturday night, in the 900 room, the Black Stu-
dent Coalition will transform the 900 Room into a center
of high fashion when the group sponsors its fourth an-
nual fashion show. Eleven Davidson students and two
professional models will present the latest styles, com-
pliments of T. Edwards and Perris Fashions in Charlotte,
and Richie’s Clothing Store in Mooresville.

The show, titled “Opening Night — a Fashion Ex-
travaganza” will be divided into four segments: casual
wear, business wear, semi-formal and formal clothing,
and finally a high fashion encore. Assistant Dean of Ad-
missions and Assistant Dean of Students Paula Miller
will emcee the event. Dressers will be on hand to aid the
models with their quick changes, because each segment
features every model.

Junior Dana Lemon, BSC special events chairman
and Marguetia Sinclair, a semi-professional model who
lives in Davidson, have been planning the show since
September. A month ago, they held try-outs for any stu-
dents interested in modeling. According to Lemon, of
the 11 students chosen, most had already had previous
modeling experience. Sinclair gave the would-be mod-
els advice during subsequent rehearsals.

This week, the models went to the sponsoring stores

and picked out clothes suitable for their respective cate-
gory of fashion. BSC President Janet Stovall said the
BSC was relying on the good taste of the models in their
choice of styles. She added, however, that the stores had
been informed of what general styles the models were
supposed to choose from.

Before wearing the clothes, the models must sign a
repsonsibility agreement for damaged clothes. Because
of this stipulation, no dress rehearsal is planned. “This
will be an original presentation,” Stovall said.

This year’s show is different from last year’s in thata
combination of professional models and students are
participating. Last year, only professionals modeled.
The models for the 1984 show include seniors Atondra
Williams, Judy Harrell, Janet Stovall, and Denise
Smith, junior Pepper Bego, sophomore Whitney Ste-
vens, and freshmen Dee Perry, Darryle Bego, and Jef-
frey Hines.

The purpose of the presentation, according to
Stovall, is to show Davidson students that “black culture
has made a significant contribution to the world.” Pro-
ceeds are going to the Davidson Kenya Connection pro-
gram, an overseas graduate program in which Davidson
graduates live and work one or two years in Kenya. Rep-
resentatives from the program will be taking donations at
the show, which begins at 7 p.m. Admission is $1
