6 Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian

Zelie Entertains, But Fails To Capture Allen’s Best

By MATT MORRIS

Woody Allen currently suffers from a
mid-life crisis. Following Manhattan,
perhaps his finest mix of Marx brother
mayhem and _ neurotic indulgence,
Allen’s films have begun to bear resem-
blance to a 45 year-old one may see stalk-
ing a Charlotte single’s bar — movies

‘that search but often do not find.

Star-Dust Memories, Allen's reflec-
tion on a deeply personal emotion, fame,
lead to (perhaps inevitably) overwhelm-
ing and undermining narcissim. Mid-
summer Night's Sex Comedy, a pleasing
but hardly involving hommage to Ingmar
Bergma, with a quietly understated a
theme of “innocence within lost inno-
cence,” a notion that is hopeful yet in re-

trospect, overly quirky and forgettable.

Last summer Woody took perhaps’

his bravest experimental step in search of
a new form, a complete pseudo-1940’s
documentary detailing the life of a. fic-
tional metaphor of Allen himself, Zelig.

Constructed entirely as a Movietone
newsreel would be — interviews, out-of-
focus shots, quick jumpcuts, and fas-
cinatingly “real” historical backgrounds,
Zelig immediately exudes much of the
naive charm ancient films have for 80’s
audiences. The opening segments nicely
parody Citizen Kane, and perhaps even
Reds, by interspersing color interviews
with documentary footage.

Leonard Zelig (Woody Allen) is a
“human chameleon;’ a man who,
through some freak of nature can literally

Giant Depicts Oil Conflict
In Sprawling, Epic Style

By CRAIG DETWEILER
’ Giant — (1956) Starring Elizabeth
Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean, Car-
roll Baker, Mercedes McCambridge, Sal
Mineo, and Dennis Hopper. Directed by
George Stevens. *** 1/2

Before J.R. began construction of
South Fork Ranch, the Benedict family
staked their claim to Texas land and its
monetary benefits. George Stevens’
Giant blows the washed out Dallas away
in scope, subject, and style.

With sweeping scenery, an ambitious
story, and a lengthy running time, Giant
succeeds in being a grandiose entertain-
ment about a grandiose subject — oil and
its ability to corrupt. A cast loaded with
then-promising talent takes on the tough
challenge of aging gracefully before the
camera, and miraculously excels. Al-
though somewhat overblown and over-
long by current standards, Giant enter-
tains as the epic it’s supposed to be.

Giant features scenes and figures of
memorable scope and presence. Revolv-
ing around the struggle between the old
Texas of the Benedict family and the pro-
gressive, corrupt ways of oil-baron Jett
Rink, Giant examines oil’s challenge to
traditional values and ideals.

Bick and Leslie Benedict head a fam-
ily raised on traditional Texas money and
methods like cattle ranching. Their or-
nery, pensive servant Rink brings con-
flict into the Benedict’s steady existence
when he strikes oil. In two memorable
scenes, the death of Luz Benedict after a
riding accident contrasts with Jett’s jubil-
ant discovery of oil on his Jand. The
death of the old represented by Luz pre-
pares the way for the insertion of the
new.

After several hours of soap operish
struggles within the Benedict clan, Bick
sparks a reassertion of the traditional
Texas values. Rink’s meteoric rise to
fame and power eventually crumbles
under his conrupt nature. . By the conclu-

a refutation of prejudice against Mexi-
cans, has been reinstated. .

If filmed today, Giant would be pre-
sented as a padded, ten-hour miniseries
produced for television. As it exists,
Giant functions as the bold, weighty en-
tertainment that filmmakers seem incap-
able of creating today. At over three
hours, it requires much attention, pa-
tience, and endurance from the viewer,
but fulfills what it promises.

While not great, revelatory art, Ste-
vens’ movie provides sweeping enter-
tainment, colorful performances, and
true ‘Texas flavor. Sets, costumes, and
dialogue demonstrate no traces of sub-
tlety, only broad spectacle. It is an epic,
made to be enjoyed without commercial
interruption. Only on the big screen, can
one view Giant in its natural, intended
form.

While the ambition of the film tends
to overwhelm it, the performers are up to
the larger-than-life roles they’re forced
to create. As Bick Benedick, Rock Hud-
son admirably embodies the swaggering,
firm family leader necessary for the role.
Elizabeth taylor complements him well
as Leslie, adding spunk and class to their
home. .

In the most ambitious and final role
of his career, James Dean portrays the
unstable Jett Rink. He reveals his sub-
stantial acting potential when forced to
shift from low-life ranch hand to corpo-
rate chairman. Dean’s creation of the
self-destructive Rink careens close to
parody, but fortunately remains pitiable
and sympathetic throughout the picture.
Special notice in the star-laden cast also
goes to Jane Withers for her portrayal of
a snooty, Soutern socialite named Vashti
Snythe. .

With broad performances, a sprawl-
ing setting, and Texan pageantry, Giant
offers the solid, moving entertainment of
epics from the good ole days. In an age of
bland, cardboard soap operas like Dal-
las, Giant arrives at Davidson as a re-

change into different people, different
races even. As the narrator intones,
“Leonard was hated by the KKK and the
Nazis because at points in his life he was
both Jewish and Negro at the same time.”
Zelig’s supernatural ability leads to
inevitable “comedy of errors” complica-
tions — he is mistaken for a Big Band
leader, a Nazi soldier, and so on, and on
the simple level of sight, the film is a
masterpiece. Not only are Zelig’s fre-
quent spontaenous transformations cap-
tured with technical skill, but through
cinematographer Gordon Willis’ lens,
the ‘‘old” footage looks perfectly antique
with scratches on the emulsion and much
overexposed, and undercranked film.
Yet special effects, no matter how
convincing do not a movie make. Zelig’s
first 30 minutes of flashback nostalgia
fascinate, but the trick becomes old and
the movie falls apart. The mock-up
newsreel footage, in fact, eventually
controls the entire spirit of the film and
the characterizations develop as two-di-
mensially as the pragmatic narrator
would have his audience believe. Where

in this “sideshow” film is the old Woody
Allen wit, pathos, and insight? Indeed
one may ask where Woody himself is —

through May 31, 1984.
¢ 1983. Hardee's Food Systems. Inc.

" ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Please present this Coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
‘visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
t combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

seo 308k Yardees

in Zelig his performance remains supris-
ingly minimal, and so, ultimately, does
the power of the film.

No doubt newcomers to the wild
world of _Woody Allen will find the
movie entertaining; even bad Woody al-
ways retains a certain quota of gags that
outdistances most comedies. And
perhaps this critic’s viewpoint is biased
somewhat by a love for the 70’s Woody
Allen. Yet one can’t help wondering
where Woody’s at times profound narra-
tive and expressive emotions went.

And the morale, the big “message,”
is so damned simplistic. In the loving
arms of psychiatrist Mia Farrow, who
has flowered into an appealing screen
prescence under Woody’s aegis, Zelig
reveals to the audience that the true goal
in life is to be one’s own person. The
End. .

It has been said that Woody Allen’s
current aesthetic is to create great “little
movies,” but a film still cost four dollars,
no matter its thematic intent. With Zelig
the viewer is forced to watch a middle-
aged comedian deal with personal disso-
nance and provide ever-so elementary re-
solutions. Surely the Woody Allen of
say, 1976 wouldn’t approve of that.

| Nee ofan SOFT Damm $178 |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per.
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tex due. This coupon not good in i
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at

participating Hardee’s Restaurams through . |

[ May 31, 1984.
| ¢ 1983. Hardee's Food Systems. inc.

Vardees |

Liercoc..-SSS=
