2

Wednesday, December 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

English Drama Expert Comes To Davidson

Dr. David M. Bevington, a professor of English at the University of
Chicago, spoke here last night.

Author of the books From Mankind to Marlowe, Tudor Drama and Politics,
and Action is Eloquence: Shakespeare's Language of Gesture, Bevington ad-
dressed the importance of visual language in Shakespearean drama in his speech
last night.

Recognized as one of the country’s foremost authorities on early English
drama, Bevington has edited numerous drama texts and facsimile editions, com-
piled scholarly bibliographies and collections of scholarly essays, and is the
editor of the standard text editions of Shakespearean and medieval drama used in
many colleges and universities.

A native of New York, Bevington earned his bachelor’s, master’s and doc-
toral degrees from Harvard University. Prior to accepting his current post at
Chicago, he held teaching positions at Harvard and the University of Virginia.

His mother Helen Bevington, a noted poet and professor emeritus of English
at Duke University, accompanied him on his visit.

ROTC Blood Drive Collects 212 Pints

The ROTC blood drive last Wednesday collected 212 pints, compared to
298 last year, according to senior cadet Brad Waddell.

“The weather is what hurt us,” Waddell said. He also added that Red Cross
volunteers turned away more prospective donors thanusual because of illness.

The blood drive took place in conjunction with the Red Cross according to
Waddell. He said senior cadet Kirk Kirkpatrick supervised the work of Wendy
Fulks, Dean Williams, and Otto Ferrene, who organized the Red Cross visit.

SGA Phonathon Raises $137,056

“We first set a goal for $100,000, then $130,000, then $135,000. We broke
all three goals we set,” SGA President John Laughlin said of the SGA
phonathon, which raised $137,065 the first two weeks of this term.

“We (Laughlin and phonathon co-chairmen Mark Sandy and Christi Hayes)
are very pleased with the totals, and especially pleased with the new donors we
had,” Laughlin said. He said the phonathon had 25 new donors each of the
phonathon’s eight nights.

Amounts raised by campus groups are as follows:

Alumni (Nov. 26) — $15,087, SAE (Dec. 2) — $16,586, Warner Hall/Emanon
(Dec. 3) — $18,983, SPE/Phi Delt (Dec. 4) — $17,193, KA (Dec. 6) —
$19,683, Rusk/PAX (Nov. 29) — $21,198, BSC/F&M/FIJI (Nov. 28) —
$14,687, and PiKA (Nov. 27) — $17,380.

Emergency Medical Technician Class To Start
Any member of the Davidson community is welcome to attend the
Emergency Medical Technician class starting at 7 p.m. Jan. 8 in Dana 114.
Classes will meet for about 2 1/2 hours Tuesday and Thursday nights. The
class will run for 12 to 14 weeks (with time off for exams and spring break).
Completion will certify those who qualify as a N.C. E.M.T. Those interested
should sign up in the Dean’s office.

Cadets To Serve As Honor Guard For Martin

Five Davidson senior ROTC cadets will lead an honor guard in the inaugura-
tion parade of North Carolina governor-elect Jim Martin °57, according to
ROTC director James Bachman.

Bachman will lead the honor guard, which will bear the American flag and
Davidson colors in front of Martin, a Davidson graduate and a former chemistry
professor here. ;

Bachman said the ROTC Department will choose the cadets today. Those
chosen wil have to return early for Christmas break for the Jan. 5 ceremony.

“It'll be an interesting exprience for them,” Bachman said. “Not many
people get to see it (the inauguration), let alone participate in it.”

According to Bachman, the cadets will travel to Raleigh on Friday, Jan. 4,
and observe a military honors ceremony and a concert. The festivities on Satur-
day, will begin with a procession from the governor’s mansion to downtown
Raleigh at 12:15 p.m. The parade will begin between | and 1:30 p.m., Bachman
said, and conclude by 3:00 p.m.

NEws SUMMARY

~~

SGA Reports Fall-Term Activities

Last spring, the first “SGA End of the Term Report” was published as a sup-
plement to and a summary of the weekly SGA minutes. The Report is designed
to inform the student body of the SGA’s work over the past 10 weeks and to
share plans for the coming months. The following is the fall term report. Any
suggestions or questions should be directed to any SGA senator or the commitee
chairmen below.

Security

The events of the past term in which the shortcomings of our security system
were exposed and experienced have led to a necessary and rapid evaluation of
the College system. The SGA committee has met to develop viable solutions and
improvements in the security. In discussion with President John Kuykendall, his
concern for the safety of the students was foremost, and he, too, had ideas for the
betterment of College security. Ideas for consideration:

— an escort service in which any students may call the escort on duty for
added security in returning to the dorm; this service is available at night and of-
fers escorts from the library to the dorms.

— increased patrolling with an emphasis on periphery housing (the perime-
ter houses and Knox, Akers, Irwin).

— increased security force with an emphasis on weekend security.

{Carroll Overton -6015]
Self-Study

The College is currently undergoing a thorough self-study. Student involve-
ment in this intraspection is spearheaded by the SGA self-study committee and
the student representatives on the faculty committees. Six hundred students have
been randomly selected as participants in a survey to assess student opinion of
the College and College life. The student report will be released on Feb. 1, 1985.

{Elizabeth Brooks -6134; John Laughlin -6788]
Athletics

The search for the new Athletic Director has come to an end. Along with the
Faculty committee on Athletics and the President’s Search Committee, a group
of six students met with and interviewed each of the finalists. The new Athletic
Director is Kit Morris. .

[Todd Wiebusch -6053]
Race Relations

The President’s Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns met continually
throughout fall term to evaluate the current racial concerns on campus and to
identify strategies for addressing those concerns. There were five student mem-
bers on the Task Force, each of whom contributed a different perspective on race
relations at the College. The Task Force Report has been released and is avail-
able in the library and College Union for reading and comment.

~ Class Schedule re

The Faculty Executive Committee has been considering a change in the class
schedules which will include a free half-hour in the morning for meetings or
chapel services or coffee-and-cokes. The inclusion of such a block of time
would mean that classes would continue through 3 p.m. (instead of the current 2
p.m.). Possible conflicts include: team practices, labs, extracurricular ac-
tivities. If this proposal is brought up for a vote by the Faculty, the SGA will hold
a student referendum so that the views of the students on this change may be ex-
pressed.

Elections

Some changes have been made in the elections:

— Quips and Cranks and Hobart Park editors will be elected during spring
term. This change eliminates the confusion of budget management and publica-
tion by two different editors. ;

— Y-Student Service Corps elections for president and vice-president only
are campus-wide. Secretary, Treasurer and publicity officer will be selected
through an interview process to broaden student participation in the Y-Corps.

The Elections Council has set policy on late sign-ups for eligibility to run in
an SGA-run election. After 5 p.m. on the specified date, no one will be allowed
to run for an office unless he or she has previously declared his or her candidacy
by signing the election sheets.

(Jennifer Gotto -6123]
Career Symposium

The Fourth Annual Career Symposium was held between Oct. 3 and 4 with

23 speakers offering information and insight into many career choices and re-

lated fields. Student participation of over 100 reflected an interest in future occu-
pations beyond Davidson.

[Edward Hay -6052]
Coffee and Cokes
Faculty-Student socials and coffee-and-cokes: Keep your eye out for them.
[Sally Gray -6145]
John Laughlin
Beadsie Woo

Nature) — Lots of Inexpensive Christ-

mas Giving Possibilities
Merry Christmas

to All Students!

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.
28036
892-7521

UNITED I-77 at Hwy 73

ai) nee eae Cornelius/Lake
| a Norman
137 N. Main St. 992-7805

Davidson
892-7815

