Friday, February 17, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Final Workshop Explores’Perso

By ROSS HOLT

This week brings the last of the Winter Term’s
Workshop plays. Workshop IV contains a suspenseful
character study and a humorous exploration of personal
meaning and reality.

Harold Pinter is one of today’s most influential
playwrights. His plays concern hidden feelings — guilt,
fear, and almost any other human emotions. He often
conceals his messages, however, behind the most every-
day, mundane lines, and he is known for being among
the first playwrights to intersperse his speeches regularly
with written-in pauses. Consequently, an inept produc-
tion of one of his plays can be very boring indeed.

This is not the case, however, with Stephanie Mof-
fett’s production of Pinter’s The Dumb Waiter. Moffett
and her actors, Robert Spach and Robert Odum, pack the
play with humor and dramafic intensity to provide a sus-
penseful, gripping drama.

As the play opens, Gus (Spach) and Ben (Odum)
await a new assignment from their employers in the
basement of an old building. It soon becomes apparent,
however, that they are killers, and that the assignment
will be their next hit. Ben, the more experienced partner,
whiles away the time by reading the paper, self-assured,
calm, businesslike. Gus, on the other hand, is more un-
certain. He eventually peppers Ben with questions
which reveal his insecurity and misgivings. As the ten-
sion mounts between the two men, an old dumbwaiter in
the wall mysteriously begins to work, delivering them
meaningless orders for food and drink. The suspense
builds into two sequential crescendoes, one as the men
spar verbally with each other, and the other when the
dumbwaiter’s ominous purpose 1s revealed. In the sud-
den, powerful end, the forces operating on the seem-
ingly secure Ben become apparent, as does the title's
double meaning.

Spach and Odum have developed a fine ensemble,
and they maintain the feeling in their characters behind
even the most oblique lines. Moffett has seen that every
line and movement only focuses the characters as they

Kratt And Soos

By BRIAN BUTLER

About thirty professors, students, and local folk
gathered in the Center for Special Studies Wednesday
night to hear poet Mary Kratt and fiction writer Frank
Soos read from their work.

Kratt is a native of West Virginia, a graduate of
Agnes Scott; she now lives in Charlotte, where she raises
her family, pets, and apparently pays a good deal of at-
tention to the birds. Her book of poems, Spirit Going
Barefoot (1982), published right here in town at More-
land Hogan’s Briarpatch Press, won the Oscar Arnold
award for best original book of poems published in
North Carolina.

She also writes for the Charlotte Observer, does a lot
of digging around in the local history files at the library,
and has published two non-fiction books about Char-
lotte, Charlotte: Spirit of the New South, and Charlotte
Scrapbook. She says that writing a non-fiction work is
like filling your cerebral bathtub as full as it will go, and
then pulling the plug. One wonders if local history
leaves a ring.

Kratt’s poetry is like her personal local history, and
her tub runneth over. Under the guise of simple, associa-
tive imagism, Kratt preserves a witty sort of two-edged
punning, often using a narrator who accidentally seems
to stumble upon the sexual, the cruel, or the absurd. Are
Kratt and this ostensible praise-the-world romantic the

Rob Odom in The Dumb Waiter.
unfold, and her sparse set serves to punctuate the desper-
ation they both — one and ultimately the other — feel.

The Dumb Waiter is one of those edge-of-the-seat
plays, but not merely because its plot involves killers
and a sinister dumbwaiter. Indeed, that is suspenseful,
but equally so is the character study it ultimately por-
trays.

Live Spelled Backwards

The evening’s second production, Live Spelled
Backwards, directed by Karen Baldwin, is an intriguing
play by Jerome Lawrence, one half of the Lawrence and

same person? One at least wonders, but that is beside the
point, anyway.

Despite her rather suburban demeanor, Kratt’s liken-
ing of the typically housewife-like pocketbook to “the
small crease on my body,” and then depicting pocket-
books “molded” to bodies, “sewn” to “skin,” coupled
with an overriding tone of human compassion yielded
such a grotesque power that one becomes afraid that her
appearance could be hiding a darker woe.

Aside from experiments in light, satirical, and occa-
sional poetry, Kratt concentrates on memories of her
childhood, her grandmother, and her first sexual aware-
ness (not experience), and on being a woman in a
hardware store, or downtown, or among Indians. In one
poem, an Indian, finding the Kratt’s suburban home
plop in the middle of the old game trail, invites himself
in. Kratt, the hospitable type, of course lets him roam
about as he wills. He says nothing but lights a fire, a real
good one.

Frank Soos was born in Virginia and attended David-
son, where he received his A.B. in English in 1972.
After graduation he taught school and track in Moores-
ville until 1976, following which he went to the Univer-
sity of Arkansas and received an M.F.A. in creative
writing. He now teaches composition and creative writ-
ing at V.P.1. He is very tall, and quiet, and understated.

Soos read from a longish short story called “Dog's

Peggy Pierotti

nal Meaning

Lee team responsible for /nherit the Wind and The Night
Thoreau Spent in Jail. Set in a Morocco bar on “the
wrong side of the Straits,” it explores the meaning of re-
ality for an assortment of the bar’s denizens.

The bar, tended by Frank, (played by Charlie Lovett)
is a rundown Rick’s where no one goes only for the wat-
ers. Its patrons include “The Woman Who Knows AI-
most Everything Badly” (Lisa Thomas), .“The Richest
Girl in the World” (Suzonn Dickey), “The Most Famous
Playwright of our Time” (Rocky Kmiecik), “The Best
Gigolo in Morocco” (Forrest Williams), and “The Most
Evil Man in Washington Court House, Ohio” (Scot
Myers).

This odd collection of misfits has gathered at the bar
as usual, but Frank tells us he has something more
planned for them than the usual drinks. Once the charac-
ters establish their everyday personas, Frank offers them
the chance to reach a higher reality by means of various
plants and chemicals. But as the drugs take effect — or
appear to — the other realities lead the characters to
realizations about themselves that they do not necessar-
ily want to know. Ultimately, the high is perhaps more
painful than the comedown, when they establish its true
nature. The actors create their characters well, espe-
cially Williams as the suave but rather greasy gigolo who
can speak English only through song titles (“Yes, We
Have No Bananas,” for example), and Kmiecik as the
playwright and perceptive observer somewhat reminis-
cent of reporter E.K. Hornbeck in /nherit the Wind.

Director Baldwin handles the large cast well, giving
each character a general area of the stage and only allow-
ing them to break out during certain moments. The play
suffers, however, because the script tends to emphasize
one character at a time because of the singular nature of
each attempt to find reality. It tends to drag at times, but
picks up toward the strong conclusion.

It's worth seeing, however, for its unique treatment
of the problems it addresses. Coupled with The Dumb
Waiter, Live Spelled Backwards makes this week's
Workshop a musn‘t-miss deal.

Find Their Past Through Poetry

Tail,” a first-person inside account of growing up in
southwest Virginia. It is a story with loafers, drunks,
coaches, moms, dads, fat safety-patrol leaders, waitres-
ses, and a lot of real genuine southern atmosphere. Soos
doesn’t make the absurdities of southern speech and
dress and manner stick out as objects of ridicule, as do
some “southern” short-story writers. Rather he tells the
story from the inside, and as he would tell it to someone
entirely accustomed to the trappings of the country
town. His narrator understands that it is funny to relate
the body of a dead drunk all dressed up by the mortician
to the appliance salesman at Montgomery-Ward’s. At
the same time, though, he understands the lonely rural
depression behind the drunk’s life so well that he isn’t
going to insult you by talking about it. His subtle use of
small-town commonplaces never lets the thing itself
overrun its context, so we listeners have to look at these
laughable southern trappings as if we, like the narrator,
had lived with them for twenty slow-moving years. And
we understand that, when one character responds to
another with a “Yeah,” or an “Alright,” no other words
are needed.

These stories ought to replace some of the New
Yorker/Harper's/Atlantic monotony, but they probably
won't, and who needs ’em? Frank Soos should keep on
sitting up late at night and typing out these things. It’s
good to know. :
