Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Campbell And Moffett Awarded Watson Fellowships

By JEFFREY MANN

The Thomas Watson Foundation an-
nounced yesterday that seniors Malcolm
Campbell and Stephanie Moffett have
been awarded prestigous Watson Fel-
lowships which provide $10,000 for in-
dependent post-graduate research and
travel.

“IT got the letter and read as far as
‘We're pleased to inform you . . . * be-
fore I did a backward somersault and ran
off to tell my advisor and some friends,”
Campbell said, Campbell will go to Au-
stralia to study the lungfish as a possible
link in the evolution of fish to amphi-
bians.

“T realized this afternoon that my jaw
hurt from smiling so much today,” Mof-

Malcolm Campbell

fett said after learning that she will be
able to go to Senegal and Indonesia to
study the ancient storyteller as a precur-

sor to theatre.

The Watson Foudation seeks “to pro-
vide Watson Fellows an opportunity to
explore with thoroughness a particular
interest, to test their aspirations and abili-
ties, to view their lives and American so-
ciety in greater perspective, and con-
comitantly to develop a more informed
sense of international concern.”

The Foundation began in 1968 in
honor of IBM founder Thomas J. Wat-
son. This year the Foundation awarded
70 fellowships at selected small liberal
arts colleges.

The selection process began this Fall
when I5 seniors submitted written pro-
posals to the Graduate Felloiwships
Committee at Davidson. The committee
selected four nominees to advance to na-
tional competition. Though the Founda-
tion can select any number, or none,
Davidson traditionally has two Watson
fellows.

Campbell to go Down Under

Campbell, who has also been ac-
cepted to graduate programs at Yale and
Johns Hopkins Universities, will leave
sometime between June | and September

5, “depending on how the paperwork
goes.” He intends to go to the University
of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia to
develop contacts on the faculty and gain
access to the university’s scanning elec-
tron microscope. He will then go.to the
Great Barrier Reef ta collect 10 to 25
lungfish. He'll dissect and preserve the

Stephanie

fish’s hearts for further study in Bris-
bane.

The research will be interesting,”
said Campbell, “but more important for
me will be to take time out from the un-
dergraduate, graduate, doctoral — boom —
cycle. That’s too fast forme... . A lot
of personal growth will come out of this
thing.”

Moffett to Study Language First

Moffett sill spend the summer stiidy-
ing the Indonesian dialect in Ann Arbor,
Michigan. In August she’ ll fly to Senegal
and spend a few weeks studying the local
Wolof dialect at a Peace Corps school be-
fore studying the griots who preserve and
transmit oral history through music,
dance, and storytelling.

Moffett

Around February she plans to go to
Indonesia. There she will work with an
Asian countrpart to the griot, called a de-
lang. The puppetry tradition is particu-
larly strong with the delangs. “Both
these acient storytellers serve the same
general function, but use very different
methods,” Moffett said.

Both Campbell ad Moffett plan to
make careers of their interests after the
one-year program. Campbell will pursue
graduate and doctoral work in research
biology. Moffett plans to pursue acting,
and wants to get a master in fine arts de-
gree (MFA) after she returns. ‘Whether
or not I go on in acting, I want to bring
some of the theater of the Third World to
America,” she said.

EPA Official Assesses Extent Of Toxic Waste

By TED WILSON

“These guys are crooks,” said Hugh
Kaufman about Reagan Administration
officials Ed Meese, James Watt, William
French Smith. Kaufman, currently the
Assistant Director of the Environmental
Protection Agency’s Hazardous Site
Control Division, spoke about toxic
wastes on Wednesday night in the 900
Room.

“They don’t want these issues dealt
with and they have no respect for the
laws of the country,” Kaufman said. He
said that of the 17,000 toxic emergencies
in America, we've cleaned up six. He
said that although President Reagan
showed support for the EPA’s Superfund
Project in his State of the Union Address,
the next morning, the White House “‘ad-
mitted that Reagan lied. That, in fact, the

‘AP OS et AO Mt te saysthatattes theshega cries.

tion, [he] may get to it.” But, contrary to
his speech, “Reagan doesn’t want to
reauthorize the program now.”

Kaufman, who uncovered the waste
dump at Love Canal, said that the name
itself, Love Canal, and the polluter’s
name, Hooker Chemical Company
caught the public’s attention. Investiga-
tions and hearings led by Kaufman en-
sued.

“The Carter administration did a one-
eighty. Before, he wanted no investiga-
tions of the catastrophies. Instructions
had come to me that neither I nor anyone
on my staff was to discover or investigate
any more toxic chemical sites until
further notice. But the administration

changed and gave the EPA resources and
permission to investigate.”

Kaufman emphasized the importance
of the Superfund. He said it doesn’t use
much taxpayers’ money, but uses money
won from law suits. “It’s a ‘revolving
fund. We give the community an alter-
nate water supply and sue the pollutants.
The money we get from the suit is put
into the Fund to be used to give another
community an alternate water supply

The main objective is “for polluters
to pay for the cleanups, not the tax-
payers. What I hadn’t counted on,”
Kaufman said, “was a Ronald Reagan.”
He said that Reagan “tried to kill the pro-
gram. The EPA and the Department of
the Interior as well as other domestic
agencies were a threat to the multina-
tional corporations.”

high government officials who hold jobs
that conflict with their interests. For ex-
ample, he said, “James Watt, Secrtary of
the Interior, was the attorney for welfare
ranchers. These ranchers let their lives-
tock graze on government land and get
rich on it. They wanted the government
to give them that land.”

Kaufman criticized the appointment
of Ed Meese as the new Attorney Gen-
eral. “Ed Meese once said, concerning
the shootings of several innocent bystan-
ders in California during the 60’s, ‘They
deserved to die.” He assumed the role of
the judge and jury and that’s not conser-
vative,” Kaufman blasted. ‘““They must
have a grand jury to decide. And with

Kaeine.cive cevorad examels -f -

Hugh Kaufman

that mentality — ‘they deserved to die’
— Meese is going to be the chief law en-
forcement official in the United States.”
Kaufman added, “Meese doesn’t deserve

a sou ogyage ns peony hse PRN IN AR NOR Se

Kaufman gave several additional ac-
counts of criminal activity within the
government. “William French Smith
was involved in obstruction of justice.”
Kaufman felt that the results of investiga-
tions of EPA officials were not just, be-
cause only Rita Lavelle was convicted of
wrongdoing. She was only convicted of
perjury.

Kaufman, who vehemently accused
the Reagan administration of not-enforc-
ing EPA regulations, noted other cases of
crimes in the Administration. “Commit-
tees have concluded that there are crimi-
nal acts involving James Watt.” He
added that “the Administration tried to

“blackmail me, and they [illegally] moni-

Ross Thayer

a

tored iny telephone calls.”

Kaufman added that when he had
gotten enough documentation to go to
Capitol Hill, he went, denouncing the
Administration’s enforcement of EPA
regulations. “Reagan invoked executive
privilege and Anne Gorsuch wouldn't
give [relevant documents] up. The scary
part was thet Gorsuch testified that
Reagan had seen the subpoenaed docu-
ments [and hence knew the incidents
were taking place] when he invoked ex-
ecutive privilege.” The hearings led to
the firings of several EPA officials. in-
cluding Gorsuch.

Kaufman suggested that in many
cases, toxic waste problems are prevent-
able. “There are safer substitutes for
EDB, a pesticide that the government has
known to be harmful for years.”

. de said that, “the Department of AR

riculture. advertises these harmful chemi.

cals, pushing them on the farmers.”
This, the farmer’s desire for ‘quick
fixes,’ and chemical companies’ influ-

ence in the economy and in politics,
causes problems,” he said.

He emphasized that “we must make
the responsible parties pay, not the tax-
payers. Also, the government should not
tell the industries how to operate, but
must act as a referee.”

Kaufman urged people to “follow
these issues. Make sure you're being
protected. And, make sure that tax
money is used to investigate and not to
line the pockets of the fat cat friends of
politicians.”

Jeff Mann
