4 Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian

AT&T Deregulation Causes Phone Rate Increase

By RAND HARTSELL

Students can expect the cost of using
their phone locally to increase as the re-
sult of this January’s AT & T deregula-
tion, but the cost of calling out of state to
decrease.

Don Elmore, an assistant staff man-
ager for Southern Bell in Charlotte,
explained that Southern Bell has re-
quested a rate increase cf $5.75 per cus-
tomer per rate group. The ten rate groups
range from small sparsely populated
areas such as the northwestern mountain
sections of North Carolina, to the de-
nsely populated metropolitan area sur-

rounding and including Charlotte.

“We have also requested that the cost
of using pay phones be raised from 20¢
per call to 25¢ per call; and that directory
assistance rates increase from the present
20¢ charge peruse to 50¢ per use . . .
with the complimentary first five uses re-
maining free,” Elmore said.

Elmore explained that Southern Bell
will bill for phone usage to which they
provide access. After AT & T’s Jan. 1
divestiture, North Carolina was divided
into regions called LATA’s. If one
places a call with the LATA, Southern
Bell has responsibility for providing the
call. If the call traversed the LATA

boundaries, including out of state calls,
AT & T assumes responsibility for pro-
viding the call. A customer will receive
only one bill however, and that bill will
come from Southern Bell. >
Joyce Deaton, AT & T's public re-
lations manager for North Carolina in
Charlotte, explained that Southern Bell
not only charges the customer for access
to the phone line, but they also charge
AT&T for the use of the existing lines on
which long distance service is provided.
Those charges amount to the following:
Soutern Bell charges residents $1.09 per
month for access to the long distance
phone lines; businesses are charged

$2.61 per month for long distance ac-
cess; and AT&T is charged 4.61 cents
per minute of long distance calls made by
customers.

In April, the Public Utilities Com-
mission will rule whether or not AT&T
may lower their long distance rates by a
proposed 10.5 percent. Deaton said that
in all likelihood, the proposal should
pass. This ruling will apply only to inter-
state rates, however. Deaton said that
intrastate rates will probably remain un-
changed; since Southern Bell plays a
more active role in intrastate service,
those rates are more subject to Southern
Bell proposals.

SGA Symposium To Develop Leadership Skills

By CHRISTINE JACKSON

A newly organized Davidson College
student group, the SGA _ Leadership
Training Committee, is taking the lead in
bringing leadership studies to the cam-
pus.

The organization will sponsor a
leadership tratning symposium Jan. 24-
25 in the College Union. It will feature
Joseph Jaworski, chairman and founder
of the American Leadership Forum in
Houston; Eileen Crowley of the Ameri-
can Leadership Forum; and _ Frank
Joseph, associate dean of students at
UNCC. Faculty and administration have
been invited to attend as well as students.

“Eighty percent of the work done at
Davidson is done by ten percent of the

people,” symposium coordinator Nancy
Rosselot said.

The American Leadership Forum is a
new, nonpartisasn, non-profit civic en-
terprise to promote more effective
leadership and to develop new models of
leadership education.

The committee at Davidson hopes
both to make student leaders more effec-
tive and to attract new leaders.

Citing leadership programs at other
colleges, including a ten-week course in
leadership at UNCC, Rosselot said the
Davidson committee is ‘different in that
the students are running it.”

Jaworski and Crowley will present
“Thinking About Leadership” at 3:30
p.m. Tuesday in the Morrison Room.

Hotel

(C ontinued from page |)

said. “We don’t know enough about the
proposal, but the town is interested in
constructive development,” she said.
Clark said several board members
support his plans, which will require a
change in the town’s zoning ordinance.
Clark feels the inn will bring more
customers downtown and will help pro-
mote its village atmosphere. Clark said
he will not alter the store fronts and plans
to build the inn on the property in back of
the stores. “I don’t want to erase the
businesses there; I want to stimulate
them. As the town grows according to its

According to MacCormac, Clark’s
proposal “raises some very interesting
questions” concerning alternative sites
for a motel in Davidson.

The College owns property off Inter-
State 77 near the Davidson exit and has
considered building a lodging facility
there. Clark emphasized that his inn
would meet needs of the town in addition
to lodging.

“The inn will be a place of character
with a superior restaurant which will
draw people from all areas around
Davidson. I hope it will capture what is

plan, the inn will bring in a buying audi- —_—s unique about Davidson,” he said.
ence,” Clark said.
ke ps -Raculty F RRacearch.... .. ~~
ae ee De Oe ey Bem ae dad we dee. her ee er Wale we en a OEE >
(Continued from page !)
As for turnout at meetings, Krentz
classes. “I'd much rather have a profes- aid that while attendance varies, rifteen

sor who is doing research now. It makes
him a more up-to-date and exciting
teacher,” he said.

He said the coordinators, who com-
pile the presentation schedule, said that it
is not difficult for a professor to be in-
cluded on the list and that the group tries
to have speakers from a diversity of
fields. While many of the papers pre-
sented deal with history, religion, and
the classics, Krentz said they could use
more on the sciences and foreign lan-
guages.

to twenty faculty members usually attend
each “social.” However, a_ record
number 45 professors recently heard
Vice-president for Academic Affairs and
Dean of the Faculty T. C. Price Zimmer-
mann speak. .

Krentz, who is currently researching
Greek battles, said that along with Zim-
mermann, who “has been good about
supporting the group,” there is “a lot of
support from the other members of the
department” to which the speaker be-
longs.

a”

==

‘—
ya

Jaworski will lecture again at 7:30 p.m.
in the 900 Room.

Jaworski will speak at a 12:30 p.m.
Open Luncheon in the 900 Room
Wednesday and will present a workshop

n “Assessing Your Leadership Style
and Potential” at 3:30 p.m. in the Big
Screen Room. Jaworski and Crowley
will lead aconcurrent workshop, “Vision
— An Element of Leadership,” in the
Morrison Room.

5 inn.

through May 31, 1984.
¢ 1983. Hardee's Food Systems, Inc.

1

May 31, 1984.

BEST EATIN’ALL AROUND!
The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
on this MONEY: SEVi coupon.

__ STEAK & E06 BISCUIT AND
<onamae SIGE 51.28

“Good leadership is the only real
crisis among Our many great problems,”
Jaworski said. “Until now, there has
been no continuing program devoted sin-
gularly and explicitly to improving this
nation’s leadership.”

The committee hopes to follow up
this symposium with events such as films
and possibly a short course focusing on
the improvement of leadership skills.

VA

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours [

only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants | \ | 9

REQULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 = |

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in |
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's Restaurants through |

Hardees |

| ¢ 1983. Hardees Food Systems. inc
as EE) EE ) i Ee a ee eee Eee
