10 Friday, March 23, 1984/The Davidsonian

~ SPORTS

Women’s Tennis Follows
Tracks Of Miller Dynasty

By KERRY BROWN

Remember Davidson. women’s ten-
nis during the reign of coach Pat Miller
(Miller was head coach for the lady
Wildcats from 1974 to 1982)?

For those who can’t remember,
here’s a brief reminder. During the “Mil-
ler Dynasty,” women’s tennis here won
95 matches while losing only 34. The
lady Wildcats won the North Carolina
Association of Intercollegiate Athletics
for Women three times in a span of four
years. Emmy Knobloch, Miller’s first-
‘seed player, won the NCAIAW singles
title four consecutive years, and the lady
*Cats strolled to a 15-6 overall season re-
cord last year.

Well, all the accomplishments of the
“Miller Dynasty” were good and fine,
but Miller left Davidson in 1982 “in
sweet sorrow,” and Knobloch, one of
Davidson’s most recent All-Americans,
graduated.

It seemed like Davidson’s women’s
tennis program would no longer be a do-
minant force in AIA tennis, but the AIA
soon became non-existent and things
looked even worse for the lady ’Cats.
The Wildcats, however, were not phased
by their new predicament. When coach
Caroline Brown came to Davidson, she
faced rumors that, without Miller and
Knobloch and the team’s stronger classi-
fication, the 1983 season looked like a
struggle for the Cats.

Yet, Brown has quietly constructed a
program that has nearly overshadowed
many of the accomplishments of the
“Miller Dynasty.” And, if things go as
planned this year, the Cats can expect an
invitation to the NCAA national tourna-
ment.

So what has restored and enhanced
the winning tradition that Miller left at
Davidson? A considerable amount of
good coaching and a group of dedicated
young women who strive for victory.

That’s all.

Sports junkies call it magical chemis-
try, the right stuff. And, if the magic re-
mains, the 1983-84 season is sure to be
another one above par.

If the Davidson women’s tennis team
is to have another Cinderella season, the
team’s upper classmen will have to play
at their best. Presently four seniors lead
the Wildcats in three of the top four
single’s positions. Senior Sue Hamilton
heads the team at the number one posi-
tion, Eleanor Knobloch, another senior,
is playing at the number three position
for the ’Cats, and senior Adelyn Lutz is
currently the number four singles player
on the squad. The team also has a pair of
exceptional newcomers in freshman De-
bbie Podolin, who has taken a place in
the starting ranks during her first col-

legiate season at the number three dou-.

bles position, and in junior Mary Grif-
fith.

With the talent the team has now,
coach Caroline Brown and the Lady
*Cats might well be on their way to
another tennis dynasty, and as coach
Brown says, “Our win-loss record would
be very good this year, and as for the fu-
ture, it’s bright.” Though the Wildcats
are slowly regaining last year’s winning
stride (the team is currently 4-2), they are
sure to be a challenge in NCAA Divid-
sion III tennis. The lady ’Cats are cer-
tainly making their move toward domi-
nance in Division III tennis, and they are
not going unnoticed. Presently the ’Cats
are ranked eighth in the country in the Di-
vision III tennis polls.

Now Brown can safely say that
Davidson’s women’s tennis is not the
failure it was predicted to be after the de-
parture of Miller and Emmy Knobloch.
Instead, the Davidson women’s tennis
program has played well against strong
opponents and is headed toward a prom-
ising future.

Cats Drop Three To The
Citadel, Pound Fairmount

By ANDY BARRON

The Wildcat baseball team opened its
conference schedule with a three-game
series at The Citadel, where they lost
three close games. Errors and falling be-
hind early in the game contributed to the
losses.

Before travelling to The Citadel,
Davidson pounded Fairmont State 27-7
at home. The game featured a fine pitch-
ing effort by Chip Knox. Knox went the
distance, providing the pitching staff
with some needed rest before the
weekend series. Though he allowed
three solo homers in the fourth inning,
Knox did what he had to do to win and
looked steady throughout the game.

“IT knew the team needed me to go at
least six innings,” Knox said. “If the staff
was deeper, I wouldn’t have had to go as
long as I did. All the runs we got helped a
lot. It was a big win that will give us
momentum for the weekend,” he said.

Unfortunately, the win over Fair-
mont State didn’t give Davidson enough
momentum. Pitcher Scott Weaver
pitched a fine game, allowing only three
runs. However, the hitters seemed to
have left their bats at home and were un-
able to score. “You can’t winif you don’t
score,” stated Coach George Greer.
“Scott pitched a fine game, but we can’t
say we should have won if we didn’t
score,” he said.

The second half of the doubleheader
was frustrating. Starter Billy Waitsman
became the third straight pitcher to throw
a complete game and leads the staff with
an impressive 2.88 earned-run average.
Davidson lost 4-3, however, and com-
mitted seven errors. All four Citadel runs
were unearned. Game three merely

added to the frustration. The ’Cats fell
behind early and were unable to come
back, losing 8-7.

“Throughout the series with The
Citadel, it seemed as if whoever batted
last would win,” said Coach Greer. “If
we had been at home, we probably would
have won at least two of those games.
We did make too many silly mistakes.
However, I was encouraged in how we
came back in each of the last two
games.” ,

Though the weekend might be des-
cribed as merely a character-building ex-
perience for a young team, many positive
aspects came out of the weekend. The
pitching staff showed it can do the job.
“AIL of our pitchers did well,” said Coach
Greer. “We were concerned with our
depth going into the weekend. I was very
pleased with their efforts.”

The hitters are coming around also.
Shortstop Keith Helfant continued to hit
.400. Centerfielder Dave Depaul has
been hitting much better. The biggest im-
provement, however, has been second
baseman Tim Waters. Waters injured his
hamstring in a pre-season scrimmage and
played tentatively early in the season.
Lately, Waters has been more aggressive
and has raised his average dramatically
over the last half dozen games.

Davidson will need all the hitting
they can muster this weekend in a three
game home series against Furman. The
*Cats need to win the series to get back in
the conference race. “The improved en-
thusiasm of this year over last year has
been a big lift,” Helfant said. “Now we
need to do well in the conference so we
can make the playoffs.” The Cats should
start this weekend.

Rugby: Enigmatic, Foolish,
And Foreign, But Fun

By HUNTER GOURLEY

This weekend those gallant young
idiot-lads dressed mostly in black and red
will return to Davidson’s playing fields,
or rather rugby pitches, to entertain some
30 or so other fine gentlemen. The enter-
tainment begins Saturday afternoon at
1:30 p.m. when Belmont Abbey arrives,
it ends sometime Sunday evening or
early Monday when Charlotte’s Old
Originals finally depart.

In between Saturday’s and Sunday’s
matches, party-secretary and keg-fetcher
Joe McMullen has conveniently sched-
uled a wide variety of other more social
and less violent activities to occupy the
idle minds of players and students alike.
Please notice our nifty new patches do-
nated by the distributors of Michelob
beer. Of course there is a catch: there’s
no such thing as free advertising any-
more.

Thus, the Michelob people have re-
quested we consume rather massive
quantities of that delicious brew they so
expertly pump into their keys. And who,
my friends, are we to deny them that one
small request? Especially with such nice
patches — a truly meaningful addition to
any humdrum uniform or outfit. How
does that song go? “Weekends were
made...”

Anyhow, everyone is cordially in-
vited to the matches and subsequent par-
ties. If it’s wet and rainy I would recom-
mend skipping the matches and perhaps
plan to attend the parties only. If it’s
sunny and hot? Well then, you just might
find the answer to that difficult question,
what exactly is rugby?

Next week, perhaps, there will be
some answers to these questions and
others concerning this enigmatic,
foolish, foreign game called rugby.
