2 Friday, January 13, 1984/The Davidsonian

: NEWS

WDAV Receives Grant From Ginter Foundation

Davidson College’s classical music radio station, WDAV, recently received
a $5,000 grant from the Karl and Anna Ginter Foundation. The money will be
applied toward the purchase of a new production console to replace the 22-year-
old piece of equipment currently in use.

“We are very grateful to the Ginter Foundation for its generous support for
WDAV’s cultural arts programming,” said station manager John Clark. “This
$5,000 added to the $5,360 contributed by individual supporters of the station
brings us almost to the two-thirds mark of the $16,750 needed for the new con-
sole.”

With an emphasis on supporting local organizations, the Karl and Anna
Ginter Foundation was established by the late Karl Ginter, a Polish immigrant
who came to the United States in the 1920s and established an industrial dye
business on Worthing Avenue in Charlotte. Because of his deep interest in his
adopted home, Ginter willed his estate to the Foundation to continue his support
for the city he loved.

Second Plott Concert Planned For April

Junior music major Laura McDonald, Davidson’s first and only Donald B.
Plott Scholar, will present a piano recital at the Plott Memorial mini festival
scheduled for April 6. The College initiated the festivals as a showcase for Plott
Scholars and began last year with the Zubin Mehta concert on January 24.

According to music department chairman Wilmer Welsh, the highlighted
speaker for the event will be Paul Hume, previously a long-time Washington
Post critic. He will speak concerning young musicians in today’s society and
will conduct a workshop for area music critics and students interested in music
criticism.

Welsh added that, unlike the Mehta concert, this festival will not be aimed at
fundraising but is being held to continue the program. Negotiations are currently
underway for the next large-scale concert scheduled for the winter of 1985-86.

Welsh said more specific information concerning the events will be avail-
able in February. He expects Interim President Frontis Johnston to appoint a
calendar committee scheduled to meet at the end of the month.

Professors Predict Greek Membership Will Jump

(CPS) Fraternities will enjoy “dramatic” increases in membership over the
hext several years as more students reach for “stability and structure” during
their time in college, two Northeastern University professors predict.

“Fraternities are coming back for the same reason that the junior prom is
coming back,” said sociology professor Jack Levin, who co-authored a study of
fraternities with Northeastern criminal justicé instructor James Fox.

Fraternity membership hit its peak in the early and middle sixties, and then
dropped off sharply during the campus protests of the late sixties and early
seventies.

In.the ten years between 1966 and 1976, for instance, the proportion of col-
lege students in Greek organizations plummeted from 39 percent to 19 percent.

The average fraternity chapter membership dropped from 50 to only 34 dur-
ing that same period, according to the National Interfraternity Conference.

“During the late sixties and early seventies, fraternities lost the support of
students, particularly at elite, private institutions where they were the
strongest,” Levin explained.“Fraternity members became stigmatized as mem-
bers of the establishment.”

But today students are looking for the security and structure that fraternity
membership offers, and a “dramatic reversal” of the decline in fraternity mem-
bership is taking place, Levin asserted.

Based on the study of fraternities at over 160 colleges, membership in frater-

nities has climbed from 19 to 20 percent of the student population.
ee ee eect eR BPR. arrears Sorceto oe MORE ES en aes

he added, where social patterns are typically more rigid.

RY

College Enrollments Creep Up Again

(CPS) Despite a shrinking number of 18 year olds, the college population
may have increased this year to 12.7 million students, an increase of 1.1 percent,
according to a new national survey.

The enrollment increase, though slight, comes at a time when observers ex-
pected a drop because there are fewer 18 year olds — who traditionally are the
new college freshmen who keep enrollments up — in the population at large.

But college enrollment increased this year largely because of an increase in
the number of part-time students, according to the study, which polled 3,259
campuses. It was performed by the Association Council for Policy Analysis and
Research, a coalition of Washington-based higher education groups.

Part-time student enrollment went up |.6 percent this year, compared to a
full-time student enrollment that stayed virtually steady, the study found.

The enrollment increases “have something to do with the economy,” El-
Khawas speculates, adding that many people opt to attend or stay in college
when jobs become scarce.

The number of first-time students remained steady, the study found, despite
the diminishing population of 18 year olds.

In fall 1982 the number of first-time freshmen dropped 3.3 percent. This fall
it dipped only 0.3 percent.

“The number of 19 year olds is an increasingly poor indicator of college en-
rollment,” El-Khawas said. There is ‘‘no fixed percentage of teenagers going on
to college.’ Now only about half of high school graduates proceed to higher de-
grees, and more older people are going or returning to school, she points out.

AI Prisoner Of Conscience Released

Prisoner of conscience Sylvio Claude of Haiti was released from prison re-
cently. The Davidson chapter of Amnesty International wrote letters this fall to
the government of Haiti requesting his freedom.

“It’s very reassuring that our actions do have some effect, but by no means
can we claim to be the reason the release occurred,” Al coordinator Hunter Mon-
roe said.

Also, the newly elected Peronist government of Argentina has begun inves-
tigations into human rights violations by previous governments. Several ex-
presidents and generals have already been charged in political killings. AI had
written letters and sent a petition urging action on the thousands of disappear-
ances that have occurred there.

Personel Changes Announced

Davidson College has named two of its staff members to new positions ef-
fective Jan. |.

Marilyn Gilmore, director of community relations for the college radio sta-
tion, WDAV, will become director of corporate and foundation programs on a
temporary basis.

She replaces Henry Doss, who has been granted a leave of absence from the
college to manage D.G. Martin’s congressional campaign.

Beverly A. Harris, a staff writer in the Office of Communications, has been
named to the new position of director of media and public relations.

Gilmore joined WDAV in the summer of 1982. She formerly served as de-
velopment director at Boys Town of North Carolina, as a development officer at
Bard College in New York, and as a consultant in communications and public
relations.

She attended Bard College and State Teachers College at New Paltz, N.Y.

Harris joined the Davidson College staff in February, after working as a re-
porter hte for Weekly Newspapers Inc. in Charlotte. She i es,

~ prttaic | te ts Lee SHE sérved"as Sportecbu our adic Newsy.

and as an assistant in nthe sports information office.

NEW PERMANENT WAVE
HAIR DESIGNERS 1/2 OFF
STUDIO
237 Catawba Ave. HAIR CUT & STYLE
Cornelius $5.00 off
(In rear of the Southem (Male & Female)
Energy Buliding).
Temporarily Closed
Will announce new location

Order in advance—

Wine & Beer by the case:
Cost plus 10%
Keg beer:
Trissy Lomax, owner Cost plus 10%
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
28036
892-7521

