Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Class Of ’84 Last To Remember Slater’s Delacacies

By SCOT MYERS

.

Dinner was burnt, dried ham again. The milk was
just about sour. The instant potatoes smacked of
aluminum and all of the lettuce on the salad bar was turn-
ing brown. In other words, dinner as usual.

On my plate I had concocted another masterpiece in
organic still life. My ham was huddled in the top corner
of the tray with sculpted mashed potatoes streaking
across the top and curving down toward my plate. Ker-
nels of dull, yellow corn were meticulously shoved in
the potatoes making. the rough pattern of a serpent.
Cherry kool-aid, poured onto the tray, created a verita-
ble ocean of blood. It was perfect, ready for the dis-
hwashers.

After I put my tray in the rack, I began to walk out the
door of Richards. On the edge of the salad bar by the
door, I saw a huge, virgin bowl of cole slaw. With an
evil smile, I thrust my hand into the bowl, grabbed a han-
dful, turned, and flung it at some girl.

That’s how I remember eating at Richards and
Bailey. I don’t even remember who that girl was. I pray
she does not remember me. But, hey, we were
freshmen. It was allowed.

The Class of 1984 will be the last Davidson students
to recall the joys and horrors of eating at those two
houses. Bailey and Richards were replaced by the Vail
Commons and Carl Pritchard’s quaint little restaurant in
a cavern. we

Richards and Bailey were from a different age. They
were like any other Patterson Court house, except they

were mainly for freshmen. Practically every hall had
their ‘own special time for dinner. We would all march
down past Richardson Dorm, PiKA, across the boards,
through the mud, and make that awful decision again.

Richards or Bailey?

Which house should we grace with our presence to-
night? For some reason, most people went the extra five
yards to Richards. It was slightly larger than Bailey, but
the food was the same.

I was on First Center East. We tended to eat at
Bailey, the house closest to PiKA, where half of that hall
ended up. Of course, after the cole slaw incident, I was a
bit leary of going into Richards anyway. We would then
go through a foodline less than half the size of that in the
Commons and eat at a few rocky tables and chairs. When
weather permitted, we ate out on the back porch, sitting
on the wall. I would have gotten a salad, but three days
earlier I had seen a big, pink caterpillar in the lettuce
bowl and decided against it.

It always made meals an adventure. You never knew
just what beast might meet you in your food.

The food was catered by A.R.A. Slater Company.
It’s frightening to think that they also provide food for a
number of other colleges throughout the country. Fair’s
fair, though. I always knew that the food would be no
better even if I transferred to another school. Food just
like mom’s! I hate to think that’s why I stayed at David-
son. My mom’s in jail for killing eight people with her
tuna cassarole.

Food was dished out by women at least three times as
big as any football player and twice as big as any sopho-
more girl this school’s ever seen. But they always had a
smile on their faces. It always reminded me of the kind
of smile a priest would give right before the executioner
throws the switch.

We had a rotational menu; the same food every three
weeks. College suicides went up every time the week for
vegetarian meatloaf came around. But the buns were al-
ways perfect. They could knock a guy on his rear from a
hundred paces if your aim was true. | wonder what they
tasted like?

What the food lacked in taste, it made up for in ver-

satility. Green jello could not only be sucked out of the
bowl with a single breath, but it could be-mashed be-
tween napkins and flashed at girls as great globs of green
snot. Corn bread could not only be dipped in greasy
gravy, but it could be split in half and skimmed across
lakes. .

Best of all, cole slaw was not just a garnish for bar-
becue that had little things grinded in it that still give me
the heebie jeebies, but it could be whipped at girls you
neither knew nor liked.

And then, maybe once a term, there would be that
special day when the food flew freely. Somebody from
Third West would toss a biscuit at someone from Second
Center and Boom! The battle lines were drawn and the
mashed potatoes exploded on the wall. Some girl (who I
do remember) stood up and told us how immature we all
were. Wham! Cole slaw from two sides. She didn’t look
all that mature after that. I must admit, we did get in
trouble for that one.

That kind of freshmen frivolity is lost in the Com-
mons where flipping a margerine pattie is met with a
fine, people study for exams and faculty join the
freshmen for lunch. I’m not sure, but I don’t think a fac-
ulty member ever set foot inside Richards or Bailey.
Heck, even the house manager never set foot in the
buildings when students were chowing down or ducking

‘down.

Both buildings could have fit inside one half of the
Commons and yet I never recall a line as long as the line
in the Commons at 6 p.m. Of course, the food in the
Commons is much better than Slater. Perhaps, it’s worth
the wait.

There is, of course, no reason why freshmen
shouldn’t delight in eating at the Commons. It has good
service, good food, music and air conditioning. As
freshmen, we had good service, bad food, conversation
and an old fan.

Defeated Idealism Underscores The Big Chill

By CRAIG DETWEILER

The Big Chill (1983): Directed by
Lawrence Kasdan. Starring Glenn

Close, Kevin Kline, William Hurt, Mary,

Kay Place, Jeff Goldblum, JoBeth Wil-
liams, Tom Berenger, .Meg Tilly, and
Don Galloway. Viewers Guide: *** 1/2.

Advertised as “the feel-good movie
of 1983,” featuring an upbeat, Motown-
based soundtrack, and focusing upon the
rebellious 1960s, The Big Chill may ap-
pear to be a jubilant celebration of an
idealistic period. In reality, The Big Chill
explores broken relationships, an unre-
trievable past, and unrealized dreams.
Kasdan’s film manages to entertain and
challenge the viewer.

In a refreshing break from the current
pyrotechnics of American cinema, The
Big Chill relies upon an_ intelligent
screenplay,.a brilliant cast, and a percep-
tive audience to succeed. Having written
the screenplays for Raiders of the Lost
Ark and The Empire Strikes Back,Kas-
dan delivers a surprisingly thoughtful,
evocative script. In the creative opening
sequence, the viewer gets cued that The
Big Chill will be about people, not laser
guns. As the seven close friends, who all
attended the University of Michigan in

the Jate 1960s, converge upon the funeral

of a collegemate, one understands that

emotions, memories, and talk will domi-
nate the picture. 4 '

in such a literate movie, a substantial
burden falls upon the cast to carry the
talky scenes. Beyond ‘the insightful
script, a solid ensemble composed of fast
rising young stars creates a sense of com-
raderie that envelopes the audience. One
comes to care about the characters be-
cause of the love and unity displayed on
screen. In a time of grief, the college
buddies reunite to console and recreate
the open love of their past.

From the initial warmth generated on
screen, a more pessimistic mood gradu-
ally comes across. Meg (Place), a corpo-
rate lawyer, reveals her disappointment
in her consistently guilty clients. She en-
tered law to defend falsely accused re-
bels, prevalent in the turbulent 1960s.
Meg ends up defending “scum.”

The hosts for the weekend reunion,
Harold (Kline) and Sarah (Close) also
exhibit hints of depression. A successful
physcian, Sarah recalls that she was “at
my best with you people,” and “hates to
think it was all . . . fashion.” While all
appears rosy on the outside, the

. :Characrters -reveal -a- deep- dissatisfaction. .

at where they are versus where they
hoped to be.

A “supermom” housewife, Karen
(Williams), expresses regret that she did
not marry Sam (Berenger), a Magnum-
like TV star. As the seven friends con-

“tinue to reflect upon their past, Chloe

(Tilly), girlfriend of the deceased Alex,
provides dramatic perspective. A sig-
nificantly younger child of the 70s,
Chloe notes that her friends ‘‘don’t like

talking about the past.” Meg observes

that she often “puts the past down just so
she can live with the present.” These
blossoming products of the 1960s under-
stand that their dreams haven’t come to
fruition. To lessen their hurt and disap-
pointment, they alter the 1960s as they
really were.

The Big Chill focuses upon the pre-
sent by discussing the past. The death of
Alex can be equated with the death of the
1960s. The days at the University of
Michigan cannot be recreated, only re-
membered. Beneath the jovial spirit of
recalling the good ol’ days, an extremely
serious, depressing truth lurks. Un-
tainted lives and loves from the past be-
come less rosy at this reunion.

Harold, an athletic shoe mogul, bet-

rays himself and his éthics by revéaling a

corporate secret to Nick, a drop-out drug.
dealer. The pure, unrealized love of Sam
and Karen comes up empty. The empty
language and looks-of their “morning
after” scene undermines free, noncom-
mittal love of the 1960s. Phe vigourously
opposed ‘big business establishment and
joyously celebrated free love of the past
have been raped and abandoned. Nick
(Hurt), the only character who has not
dropped his rebellious ideals, embodies
the life of those who remained faithful to
the 1960s. In a hilarious and horrifying
interview with himself on videotape,
Nick shows his brilliant potential which
has been ruined by a life chained to
drugs. While a light spirit permeates The
Big Chill, a sobering reality undergirds
it.

As idealistic college students, we ap-
proach The Big Chill with faith in ourse-
Ives, a canonization of the 1960s, and a
love of good times. Do not allow these
rosy filters to obscure.the point of this en-
joyable and enlightening film. Kasdan’s
characters find their love was minimal,
their committment to change superficial.
and their pursuit in life unsatisfying.
Like most great films, The Big Chill of-
fers grand entertainment and tough ques-

"tions for those who dare to ask them.” -
