Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian 11

~The ‘Third World Diet’

Hunter Monroe

Today’s American faces an imposing array of mod-
ern problems and frustrations. Considering these obsta-
cles to a fulfuilling life, he or she may decide that the
human condition is a hopeless one. However, we have
conquered worse problems than those we confront now,
the good life is still within our grasp.

Perhaps the most pressing problem today is weight
loss. We can easily ignore the importance and mag-
nitude of this twentieth-century plague. Many people
have tried almost everything to lose weight, but without
success.

My approach to this social disease is simple and ob-
vious once described. It is this: look at the people who do
the best job of staying thin, contain your jealousy, and
do what they do. Clearly, the people we should look at
are our Third World friends. The clever guys have got
the problem licked so well that they never even think
about eating too much.

Their lesson for would-be dieters is clear — just
deny yourselves the means of obtaining more than a sub-

sistence level of food. I call this the Third World Diet. It
leaves room for much originality. You could simply quit
your job, or you might adopt ten children. Enjoy desig-
ning your diet program, but be sure that your steps are ir-
reversible. Still. do not get carried away — thousands

. . .[L]ook at the people who
do the best job of staying thin,
contain your jealousy, and do
what they do. Clearly, the

people we should look at are
our Third World friends.

eC
die of overzealous dieting every day. We cannot escape
the logic of the Third World Diet, though; these people
have their weight under control.

The success of the Third World approach to dieting

should give us insight into other problems, and it does.

For instance, a major goal of housewives is to find an all-

temperature detergent that will leave clothes soft, bright-

er-colored, and cling-free. Third Worlders solve this

problem neatly by side-stepping it. They wash their
clothes about once a week so they do not expect much.
They avoid our crippling fashion-related worries equally
well, by having at most one change of clothes. They also
deal with the problem of finding a soft, aesthetically
pleasing toilet paper, and at the same time they avoid the
major cause of hemmorrhoidal pain. Their solution: live
near a shade tree. Their reaction to underarm wetness is
beautifully pragmatic. They take off their shirts when
they are hot. They manage to avoid worries about keep-
ing their teeth white, straight, and sparkling fresh by los-
ing most of them.

If we give our modern problems the consideration
they deserve, the people of the Third World provide a
fruitful source of ideas for solving them. By imitating
their life-style, we can avoid most obstacles to true hap-
piness.

Monroe is a senior mathematics major from Chapel
Hill, NC.

5.- Avoid internal violence — we
must refuse to hate our opponent. Love is
the key.

6. Faith in the future. Faith that “the
universe is on the side of justice.”

Davidson, right now has a great deal
of energy. Let us take this energy and
apply it in a positive way. The only true
and lasting changes are those that are
through love and understanding, a
change that seeks an end which is consis-
tent with the means.

Everyone at Davidson wants to better
the world around us. We all wish to live
in a world absent of strife. Now, and in
the years to come, let us work together
through cooperation and understanding,
to accomplish these goals.

Doug Ammar

Disagreement

To the Editors:
After hearing Dr. Helen Caldicott

speak about the urgency to prevent nu-_

clear war and hearing extremely positive
responses to her talk, I find myself won-
dering how. many hard-core conserva-
tives were there. Most of the people who
attended were probably in agreement
with her before they heard her speak. So
she might not have changed many opin-
ions but she probably inspired people to
voice their opinions and be more polliti-
cally active.

If she has done that then she has
helped, but the people who really needed
to be there are the ones who disagree with
her. Most people go to talks and lectures
on subjects with which they know they
already agree. What is equally if not
more important is for people to go to lec-
tures on subjects with which they disag-
ree. I now realize that I have not been
doing this myself but I believe that by
doing this one will strengthen his own
opinions by being prepared for the argu-
ments of the opposition. One cannot
fully understand his side of an issue until
he understands the arguments of the
other side.”

, Yhe year is almost over.so there.

aren't many more talks for people to at-
tend, but I hope people will realize the
importance of hearing and really under-
Standing the arguments of the other side
of an issue and will make an effort to go
to talks on subjects with which they dis-
agree.

Jean Cooper

Budget

To the editors:

This letter is a reply to the concerns
aired in last week’s Davidsonian about
the Activities Tax Council’s proposed
and approved budgets for Quips and
Cranks, The Davidsonian, and Hobart
Park.

Quips and Cranks: There is a propo-
sal up now before the ATC to allocate an
additional $1,300 which is $100 more
than the editors requested in their revised
budget. However, the $85 operating
budget mentioned is misleading — what
one failed to mention is that revenues
from advertising and fundraising were
not included. .Assuming that Quips and
Cranks has revenues of $3,450 (which is
the amount projected in their ATC
budget proposal) a total of $3,535 would
be available for operating expenses. The
$3,535 does not even include the addi-
tional $1300 proposed.

The Davidsonian: The approved
ATC allocation of $12,000 for The
Davidsonian was based on their presen-
tation. The Davidsonian’s business man-
ager explained that an increase from
$7000 to $8000 was due to production
and publication costs in order to expand
the size of the newspaper to 16 pages
each week. Rather than increase the size
of the paper, the ATC provided enough
funding so The Davidsonian could con-

tinue to operate as successfully as they

have for the past year.

Hobart Park: The $2200 alloted to
Hobart Park is for the publication of one
issue next year. However, the editors are
not being punished in that they are pub-
lishing two issues which is the same op-
portunity afforded to all of the preceed-

va a) . ~

ing editors. In fact, this year’s editors
have $6200 available for two editions of
Hobart Park — more than any editors
before. Also, an ATC recommendation
was made that their elections be moved
from winter to spring term so that the al-
location is made to the editors who actu-
ally appear before the council.
Hopefully this will answer the ques-
tions voiced about the ATC’s reasoning
behind its decisions concerning these
three organizations.
Ester Kim
ATC Chairman

To the Editors:

The arguments presented by Jeffrey
Mann in the “Opinions” section of your
newspaper implying that the allocations
made by the Activities Tax Council were
biased toward the SGA and were errone-
ous in many cases due to the oversight of
several factors concerning the appoint-
ment and actions of the ATC.

First, the college allocates the Stu-
dent Activities Tax to the SGA, to be al-
located by the ATC upon approval by the
Senate. According to the SGA By-laws,
the student members of the ATC are
“|. , five members of the SGA, exactly
two of whom are members of the Senate,
nominated by the ATC chairperson and
approved by the Senate.” Because the
college gives the responsibility of the
Tax to the SGA Senate, the “large role”
which Mann states that the SGA Senate
has in allocating the funding is estab-
lished by the college and defined by our
By-laws.

Second, the appointment of Ester
Kim to the chair of the ATC was a selec-
tion based on her experience with the
ATC as a member and her organizational
capabilities. When I appointed her to the
chair, I in no way was hoping to bias the
decisions of the ATC in favor of the
SGA, and was only thinking of Ester’s
skills as being appropriate for the job at
hand. Mann alleges that she “had some
part in the creation of the SGA budget;”

this “part’’ was merely gathering of the
expenditure information concerning the
SGA from the Comptroller’s Office and
the categorizing of these expenditures so
that I could project next year’s needs and
projected expenditures for the SGA.
These were her last actions as Chancellor
of the SGA, and in no way influenced the
make-up of the SGA budget proposal.

Third, Mann alleges that the SGA re-
ceived one of the largest increases in
funding from the ATC. However, he ne-
glects to mention that the SGA budget
proposal was cut $1,000 by the ATC,
giving the SGA $1,110 less than was
spent for SGA programs during the last
year. In fact, five out of the eleven or-
ganizations receiving Student Activities
Tax funding are allocated equal or great-
er shares of the funds, placing the SGA
grant directly in the middle of the “fund-
ing ladder.” As is seen, the SGA will cer-
tainly feel the effects of a tight money
situation and was not given preferential
treatment by the ATC.

Finally, Mann’s discussion of the
funds included in the SGA budget for
SGA Admissions Weekend overlooks
the origin and purpose of the weekend.
SGA Weekend was begun by students as
a way for Davidson students themselves
to encourage outstanding prospective
students to attend Davidson; hence the
weekend is a student activity and so is
partially funded by the SGA. The in-
crease of $500 for the weekend was re-
quested to match the expenditures of the
Admissions Office on the weekend, as
was the case in years past. This increase
was part of the amount which the ATC
felt should be cut from the SGA budget,
and so the Admissions Office will still
bear the major portions of the expenses
for SGA Weekend.

These points show that the ATC did
no favor the SGA when considering the
allocations of the Student Activities Tax
for next year. The Council had a difficult
task and made decisions which all of the
student organizations involved must ac-
cept and work with in the coming year.

John C. Laughlin
SGA President
