Friday, March 23, 1984/The Davidsonian 9

Risky Business Advocates ‘Why Not’ Philosophy

By MATT MORRIS

Risky Business, this week's pop film,
surely lives up to its title. A film about a
young Chicago lad who seeks to
supplememnt his allowance by tempo-
rarily operating a bordello in the middle
of Middle America generally runs all
kinds of risks.

It’s to the movie’s credit that the
characters involved come off as appeal-
ing and realistic. Written by first-time di-
rector Paul Brickman, the script roars
with huge  belly-laughs as Tom
Cruise,this generation’s Andy Hardy, at-
tempts to maintain equilibrium bewteen
his parents, his school, and his highly
profitable, albeit risky, business.

However, the approach never en-
croaches on satire, and the moral remains
confusing — even frightening. Dire¢tor
Brickmanm seems to side with the\cdn-
niving Cruise and all his teeny-bop vi-
sions right down to the last image. In-
stead of being “the Graduate of the 80s”
as the posters proclaim, Risky Business is
the '80s answer to that pre-hippie “anti”
film, and the answer provided here calls
for conformity and materialism, occa-
sonally giving way to decadence and a
“Why not?” philosophy. If the movie's
attitude had been more light-hearted this
approach could be easier to take. As it is,
Risky Business moves toward more far-
reaching social implications, but then

Classifieds

CAMP BECKET boys camp has openings
for counselors and program specialists.
Also Nurses (RN). Located in the mountains
of western Massachusetts within driving
distance to Boston and NYC, the camp of-
fers a broad camping program emphasizing
personal development. Contact the place-
ment office for more information and inter-
view schedule.

EXCITING SUMMER JOBS for college
students or faculty as counselor/instructors
in tennis, water ski, crafts, kayak, canoe, rif-
lery, rock climb, etc. Includes good salary,
food, lodging, and a fun and rewarding ex-
perience. Reply immediately to The Summit
or call 704-884-5388.

The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’ bring
along this money-savin’ coupon.

STEAK & EGG BISCUIT AND
ORANGE JUICE $1.29

Camps, Box 100, Cedar Mountain, NC 28718

NORTH MECKLENBURG YMCA’s Lake
Norman Day Camp is looking for people in-
terested in working with children, 5-12
years old, in a day camp setting. Camp ses-
sions run June 11 through July 20, with staff
Orientation beginning the week of June 4.
Salary dependent upon experience. Please
come by the Y to fill out an application be-
fore Wednesday, April 18.

TEST YOURSELF: Can you manage your
time productively? Work 2-4 hrs/wk consis-
tently? Are you success-oriented? Self-
motivated? Marketing position available on
campus. 1-800-243-6679.

visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in

| Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per

combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours |

through May 31, 1984

only at participating Hardee’s Restaurants 9
¢ 1983, Hardees Food Systems, Inc. : lardees

May 31, 1984.

¢ 1983, Hardee’ Food Systems, Inc

FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79 ||

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in i
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's Restaurants through

Hardees |

Ne ee et ae oe ee el

plays chicken and toys with the issues.

Not to say that the film isn’t funny; it
is. Tom Cruise perfectly embodies the
air-guitar generation. In a wonderful se-
quence Cruise, temporarily freed from
his parents, jumps about on Mom and
Dad’s sacred furniture to the tune of Bob
Seger, armed only with his underwear
and a candlestick. Dad’s turntable cer-
tainly had never spun such stuff. Here the
movie revels in good semi-rebellious
fun; a new “anti” film for the under-30
crowd, without the dated longhairs one
has come to expect.

Rebecca. deMornay excites as
Cruise’s girlfriend / call girl, but the
movie is ultimately about making
money, not love. Their relationship
evokes only laughter.

Also amusing, but no more than that,
is is Rob Peel as Cruise’s philosophical

buddy Highland. His now (in)famous
credo, “Sometimes you ‘ve just gotta say,
‘What the f——,’” triggers the business
ethic in Cruise. Yet again Brickman has
elicited only empty ha-ha’s from this po-
tentially interesting character.

The tone of the movie is muddled.
Sid Luft’s moody photography com-
bined with the spacy sounds of Tangerine
Dream hint at subtler, darker themes.
But they are mere appetizers. A particu-
larly annoying example occurs when
Cruise and deMornay are in the midst of
passionate love-making, and the camea
pulls back to show a picture of Cruise at
seven years. Lost innocence? Irony? Is
this some kind of statement or what? Se-
quences like this in Risky Business are
never followed up, but mere throwa-
ways. One ought to consider the movie
Just that.

-— Music

By STEPHEN MANK

In a comparatively humble way,
Liverpool is beating a path back up the
charts. Bands like Flock of Seagulls
and Echo and the Bunnymen are re-
gaining the favor of western England
that was once held by groups like Peter
and Gordon, Billy J. Kramer and the
Dakotas, Gerry and the Pacemakers,
and of course, the Beatles.

These days, music composed of
perfectly controlled vocals, funky,
frantic drums, bass, and tinny piz-
zicato guitars, all against a background
sheen of synthesizers dominates the
charts. It’s a fool-proof formula. Wit-
ness Duran Duran and Aztec Camera;
even Culture Club and Eurythmics
have incorporated this style into their
music to some degree.

Icicle Works is one of those bands
that hones this art with uncompromis-
ing clarity. Like their Liverpool con-
temporaries, Icicle Works, on their
album of the same name, takes the 30-
minute psychedelic “happenings” of
the 60’s and cram it into dance songs
one-tenth as long. Compositions like
“Nirvana” with its guitar solo played
backwards extoll the virtues of love,
happiness, and living the ideal life. Ti-
tles include “Lover’s Day,” “Love is a
Wonderful Colour,” and of course, “In
the Cauldron of Love.”

Motifs tend towards the eastern
with a certain, almost druidic under-
current. “Out of Season” is about a
young boy’s desire to marry a girl
whose “eyes are as dark as November /
When it falls on our village.” The final
line, “there is something growing out
of season,” unites the British mythos
of Stonehenge and tree gods with the
ancient eastern philosophers, religious
masters, and gurus.

The lyrics are intelligent, the beat
is good, the songs are appealing, and
all three musicians are terribly profi-
cient; nonetheless Icicle Works is mis-
sing something, or rather, they have
too much. The days of Fred Astaire,

Icicle Works Masters Of F ield

when dancers floated across the floor
in a perfect fusion of music and move-
ment, are gone. Today dancing is a
mad flailing of limbs and a crazy gyra-
tion of torsos to blaringly apparent
beats. Quite simply, high production
and polish are unnecessary and unwel-
come. It is silly to have people jump-
ing about, working themselves to a
sweat against a backdrop of satin and
glass perfection. There is no rawness.
The question at hand is, where does
one draw the line between high aspira-
tions and pretension? Icicle Works
don’t quite seem to know on what side
of the line they fall.

Icicle Works are fine musicians,
singers, and songwriters; all they need
to do is learn to fall away from conven-
tions of British pop. For in spite of
their conformity, they are truly mas-
ters of their field.

Quick Pan

When AC/DC first made Heavy
Metal devil rock popular with “High-
way to Hell,” I laughed along with ev-
eryone else — I mean, what could be
funnier than a song about going to Hell
that ends, “And I’m goin’ down /
AAAAAAAUUGH.” Now a_ band
called Motley Crue is climbing the
charts with an LP called Shout at the
Devil (even Ozzy Osborne onlyBarks
at the Moon). Whal want to know is
when did the joke stop being for us and
start being on us?

