Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Student Officer Jim Mashburn Studies People

By IDA PHILLIPS

A television show about Jim
Mashburn’s experiences as a reserve
police officer on the Cornelius police
force would never skyrocket to the top of
the ratings. Not that Mashburn’s work is
unexciting, but the average viewer
would not understand his opinion of the
benefits of his job. Unlike Starsky and
Hutch, Mashburn does not revel in
speeding after criminals down the high-
way. Rather, Mashburn yearns to learn
about people and their relationships by
examining the criminal element.

A senior philosophy major,
Mashburn is practically involved in an
entirely different educational system in
the police force. “A classroom education
teaches you principles, which is very dif-
ferent from being out here. Here you can
study how people work and how they get
along with each other. You can see it in
more detail than you can in a book,” he
said. Like Rousseau, Mashburn believes
in learning through experience.

Mashburn compares a police of-
ficer’s activities to those of a scientist ina
lab. Each person he encounters offers
him a glimpse of a different type of per-
sonality or relationship. “One day you
may pull over a Cadillac with a doctor in
it who makes $80,000 a year, then pull a
member of a motorcycle gang. Inves-
tigating domestic disturbances, you can

go into a mansion or a tenement.

disturbances. People’s problems are
sometimes amazingly similar,” he said.

Prior to his work in Cornelius,
Mashburn had some experience in law
enforcement. In his home state of Geo-
rgia, he worked as a spotter in a police

The Working World:

Careers Office Provides Exploration,

By DAN VOORHIS

On a warm spring morning next May
the members of the senior class will fling
their caps into the air joyous at finally es-
caping Davidson College. But many face
the unsettling idea of surviving in the
outside world, a potentially terrifying
thought to those uncertain of their desires
and options.

Aiding the metamorphosis from stu-
dent to professional is the job of the Care-
ers Office. Its task, in Director Ken
Wood’s words, is to help the estimated
two-thirds of the student body who use
the office to “make the transfer from Col-
lege to the working world.”

Wood added that the office is desig-
ned only to support student efforts be-
cause “the responsibility i 1S ultimatel up

them jobs.” Instead the office outlines
options and helps narrow down vague in-
terests into a concrete objective. It then
supplies crucial contacts to enable pros-
pects to get their foot in the door. But it is
the student who will do the work of get-
ting the job.

Wood believes that experience is the
only sure judge of the appropriateness of
a particular position. This philosophy
translates into an emphasis on hands-on
experience and face-to-face discussion
with someone in the profession. The pro-
grams in this vein include extern and in-
tern programs, information-gathering in-
terviews, guest speakers, and corporate
representatives.

Ken Wood
The office treats three major areas:

“career. exploration,” “experiential

ORREB sc cian We dite not nere-to Hind” HeAttee, Sina “F66" prdcertient,; that’ is,

finding out what you want; finding out if
you really like it; and getting someone to
pay you for it.

The first area involves counseling by
the office and thinking by the student.
The job must be both realistically avail-
able and enjoyable to the student to make
such a match viable. For general impres-
sions, the office has a large series of
monographs describing various profes-
sions.

The second area gives students the
experience of everyday work. The ex-
ternships send a student to visit and
sometimes work at a business or organi-
zation for a short time, perhaps a week.

This can prove to be an enlightening

| al
Peggy Pierotti

Student office icer Jim Mashburn

No-
body’s immune to break-ins or domestic

helicopter, pursuing criminals on foot or
in speeding cars. After his freshman year
in college, he began observing police
work riding in patrol cars. “It was a
whole new world — I loved it. After that
it was pretty much one thing after
another.”

Mashburn began’ working with

experience. Junior Clay Napper, inter-
ested in urban planning, externed at pri-
vate agencies that built subsidized poor
housing. Not enjoying the job, he reas-
sessed his goals. Next summer, he will
try out a new direction in an internship.
The externship allowed him to gauge his
ideas versus the reality of the job.

Of longer duration, internships usu-
ally last several months and include actu-
ally working in a job. Senior Beth
Findlay iook this term off and now inter-
ns at First Union Bank in Charlotte. In
addition to gaining skills with computer
systems. she has made contacts at that
company and gained a valuable market-
ing point.

Careers Office Assistant Director
Harriet Root has beeun. setting up.a pet
work of contacts in major" cities. She
started this year in New York with people
in fields such as banking, insurance,
publishing, broadcasting. “It is a pool of
information to make future judgments,”
Root said. “It should provide advice and
strategies for approaching the ‘ob mar-
ket.”

The 50 or so seniors went . >w
York over Christmas break. They se.»
appointments with the appropriate con-
tact and found out exactly what employ-
ment in, for instance, a huge bank in
New York was like.

Related to the concept behind the
New York network are the frequent trips
into Charlotte to visit different types of
corporations. These include anything

Davidson College security as a sopho-
more, writing parking tickets. After he
moved up to working as a security of-
ficer, the college decided to hire a stu-
dent as acampus police officer. Pursuing
this job, Mashburn attended the police
academy for three months and became a
certified police police officer and
Mashburn was hired by the town of Cor-
nelius in Dec. 1983.

Mashburn’s devotion to his work is
quite apparent. As a reserve police of-
ficer, he receives no pay and is required
to work at least eight hours a month. Yet
Mashburn often works from 7 p.m. to 7
a.m. several nights a week. Although he
is a reserve officer, he has all the duties
of a regular policeman. As for these
duties, Mashburn briefly described them

s “driving around a while, and driving
around some more.” After twelve hours
of these and various activities, Mashburn
reports to class.

An important part of Mashburn’s fu-
ture is based on his current employment.
This year he will draw upon these experi-
ences to write his senior thesis on law en-
forcement ethics. In the long term he
hopes his work will provide him with a
position in the State Bureau of Investiga-
tion. Meanwhile, Mashburn juggles his
time between schoolwork and his un-
usual extra-curricular activity. As he
simply states, “Some people play basket-
ball, and I’m a police officer¢”

Experiential Learning, Job Placement

from banking to not-for-profit organiza-
tions. Inversely, often there are recep-
tions at Davidson to acquaint the students

with the companies. This culminates in
the on-campus job recruiting season be-
ginning soon and lasting through the
Spring.

But Wood explained that while 70
percent of the 150 or so seniors that used
the office got jobs by graduation, only 25
percent found one by having a represen-
tative recruit him. The more common
pattern is for the student to recruit the
company.

The last area, job placement, is in the
hands of the student. The office teaches
the skills necessary to successfully find
one. Practice and criticism help perfect
resumé “ring. apd, interiewing vali
They also provide the proper way to go
about courting personnel directors and
interviewers.

The resources of the Careers Office
are formidable. Students can receive
help from lists of highly placed alumni
and friends of Davidson who are often
eager to help a student. The College's
reputation also provides capital on the
market.

Mike Dickens, of the hotel company
Guest Quarters, will begin visiting
Davidson as a recruiter. But he is an
alumni and thus knows the quality of the
graduating senior. “We come to David-
son because we know its special. But we
try to find a good fit between the person
and the job,” he said.
