Friday, October 12, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

NEws

Kuykendall AppointsCommittee ToDirect Athletics

By TED WILSON
As the search for a new athletic direc-
tor continues, President John Kuyken-
dall has appointed a three-man team to
carry out the director’s duties. The com-
mittee, consisting of tennis Coach Jeff
Frank, cross country Coach Sterling
Martin and golf Coach Tom Cartmill,
will replace head football Coach Ed Far-
rell, who served as interim athletic direc-
tor from last spring until Oct. 1.
According to Frank, Farrell had
asked to be relieved of his duties as athle-
tic director by Sept. 15 so that he could
concentrate on football, but he agreed to
continue as director until Oct. 1.
Kuykendall appointed the three
coaches “to deal with day-to-day neces-
sities,” Frank said. Mathematics Profes-

Terry Warns

Advertisi
By DAVID MCGEE

The social chairmen of Patterson
Court houses have received a letter from
Dean of Students Will Terry instructing
them not to advertise alcohol as a part of
their parties or social functions.

In his letter, Terry said: “It has come
to my attention that there is blatant adver-
tising of parties as alcohol events ... .
First, there is a policy against this kind of
advertising. Second, it indicates you are
flaunting the law when it is directed at
freshmen. Third, you are inviting an
ABC [Alcoholic Beverage Control] of-
ficer to check you out.

“This kind of advertising is in no
one’s interest. Please be sensitive to
this.”

In addition, Terry has asked all
houses to submit a policy on alcohol and
drug use. Terry said he plans to hold
houses responsible to the -school’s al-
cohol and drug policies, especially con-
ceming advertising of social events.

About specifically advertising al-
cohol, Terry said, “It’s bad P. R. Some-
times, it has been in violation of ABC
laws.”

sor J. B. Stroud, head of the search com-
mittee for a new athletic director said the
coaches stood as the logical choices to
head the department temporarily because
of their experience.

Frank handles all minor, non-reve-
nue sports, summer camp programs, and
budgets.

Cartmill works with the Southern
Conference and NCAA and NAIA af-
filiates, as well as with football and bas-
ketball.

Martin heads Physical Education,
IMAC, club sports, the lake campus fa-
cilities, the horse farm, and overall athle-
tic facilities.

Frank said, “the three of us work well
together,” and the three will continue
their regular duties while sharing the

Mangers,

Dean Terry

Terry cited parties where a fee is
charged to enter a keg party, for exam-
ple. Such practices, he said, are against
ABC regulations.

“T still wish we could get houses to be
more sensitive to having more alternative
beverages and food at parties,” Terry
said, noting that many Colleges require
this.

Terry also expressed concern that
some houses may be “getting slack” in
following local and state alcohol laws.
Not taking measures to check that stu-
dents attending parties are old enough to
drink may put a house in 7 eee trouble,
Terry said.

Peggy Pierotti

work of the athletic director. They will
serve until the new athletic director re-
ports to work on Jan. 1, 1985.

Search For The New Director

Stroud said Davidson has received
over 175 applications for the job. “The
committee began its work on July 1 when
President Kuykendall arrived. We spent
the remainder of the summer in the sc-
reening process,” Stroud said.

He said the committee cut the pool
down to 15 candidates by the beginning
of the school year. The committee has
“narrowed it down to five candidates,
two of whom have been interviewed.”
The committee will interview the re-
maining three in the next two weeks. By
the end of October, the committee will
have completed the current round of in-
terviews, Stroud said.

“If the administration feels they have
found the one they want for the job, I
would expect that they would make an

offer in November with the expectation
that they would be-working in January,”
Stroud added.

Frank said “the administration will
need the approval of the Trustees” con-
ceming its selection. He said Kuykendall
will present his choice to the Athletic
Committee of the Trustees, which will
talk with each of the five candidates
when they come for their interview and
tour of the campus.

Frank said if the administration and
Trustees decide not to hire one of the five
finalists, the search committee will re-
turn to the pool of 15 candidates and will
conduct more interviews. He said, “I'd
be surprised if one of these five weren't
agreed on by the President and Trus-
tees.”

Search Committee members include
Stroud, Frank, English Professor Gail
Gibson, and Dean of Students Will
Terry.

Homecoming Thefts
Decrease This Year

By GINGER BROADDUS

The number of thefts during
homecoming ‘this year was significantly
lower than usual, according to campus
security chief J. G. Hughes. Nine people
reported items stolen last Saturday, Oct.
6.

Only one Davidson student reported
property stolen. Sophomore Todd Bed-
dard, a Knox Dorm resident, reported as
stolen $40, a wallet containing $10, his
driver’s license, a student |. D., and a
telephone credit card taken from his dres-
ser drawer. His room was unlocked, and
the theft was classified a “carry-away”
robbery.

In other instances of ‘“carry-away”
theft, six alumni reported money stolen
from lockers in the gym. They said they
left their belongings in the gym lockers
while they showered after a baseball
game. According to campus police re-
ports“. . . the alumni left the dressing
room. As far as they could remember,
the door was locked. After the showers,
they noticed that their clothes had been
gone through.” Hughes said the lockers

were not locked.

Jeffrey Roy reported $50 and a wallet
containing $10 taken, James W. Hyder,
Jr., reported a wallet with $10 missing.
Don Killiam reported the same. Jim
Richards was robbed of his wallet and
$10, and John Maddeu had $18 and his
wallet taken. Jim Richards reported $110

and a wallet taken.

In two other cases, Kenneth L. Krieg
°83, of Harvard University, was robbed
of $120 and a wallet containing $10. He
told campus security that he slept at the
Pi Kappa Alpha house after a party there.
He told police he remembered putting his
wallet in his shoe, but it was missing
when he awoke. Paul A. Gregory, from
Vanderbilt University. reported that
while staying in the F & M house base-
ment, his wallet, containing $47. was
taken from his jacket pocket.

Hughes said while the number of
thefts last weekend was comparatively
lower than in past years (one year, he
said, 48 were reported during Homecom-

ing weekend), those that did occur could
have been prevented. There are no sus-
pects in any of the cases, Hughes said.

Board of Trustees Elects Officials At Fall Meeting

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

The Board of Trustees mef last
Thursday and Friday in conjunction with
the installation of President John
Kuykendall, Fall Convocation, and
Homecoming. The Board elected offi-
cers for next year at the executive session
Friday , according to Rick Love, assistant
to the President.

Ben Craig, the current Vice Chair-
man of the Board, will serve as Chairman
next year. Craig is the Chairman of the
Board of the Northwestern Financial

Corp. E. Craig Wall, the President of

Canal Industries, Inc., will be the Vice-
Chairman of the Board. Dr. Fred R.
Stair, Jr., the current Chairman, will

head a-committee on church relations.
Stair is the Executive Director of the Pre-
sbyterian Foundation. The current Sec-
retary, Larry J. Dagenhart, an attorney in
Charlotte, will serve as Secretary again
next year.

Ambassador Jack Perry, the new di-
rector of the Dean Rusk Endowment,
was introduced to the Board, according
to Love. Dagenhart felt that Perry “made
a fine impression.” In describing the
Center for Special Studies and the new
Rusk program in international studies,
Dagenhart explained, “We really already
have quite a bit of work going on in inter-
national studies, but the Center will help
pull things together.”

Aside from the election of new offi-

cers and the introduction of Perry, there
was not “a lot of high-powered busi-
ness,” Dagenhart said. Love said the fall
meeting is usually a social meeting with
less business and more college activities.

Other business included the nomina-
tion of several new Trustees to replace
those who will retire next year,
Dagenhart said. Love said the new Trus-
tees will not be announced until the new
presbytery trustees are chosen.

Dagenhart also added that the Trus-
tees discussed the merger of the south
and north Presbyterian Church and its ef-
fect on Davidson College and higher
education in general.

At the split-plenary sessions on
Thursday and Friday, the Board heard a

progress report on the 10-year self-study
that the College is conducting this year.
according to SGA _ president John
Laughlin. The self-study committees
met with related Trustee committees
which was productive for each commit-
tee, Laughlin said.

The standing committees of the
Board also met. The Student, Campus.
and Religious Committee. of which
Laughlin is a member, discussed the
drug counseling program initiated this
fall by the Dean of Students’ Office.
Laughlin said. The committee received
an update on the new security dispatch
system and the housing situation.
Laughlin said.
