4 Special Supplement/December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian

Eight New Players Enhance Davidson’s Chances

By ANDY BARRON

A clear sign of a young team is a bunch of new faces.

A horde is a more accurate description of the amount of
newcomers in the Davidson basketball program this
year. The team has more newcomers (8) than returning
players (7) striving for playing time. The contributions
the most recent additions to the Wildcats can make will
greatly affect the success of the 1984-85 season.

The bulk of the recruits are freshmen. Coach Bobby
Hussey signed six young men from as far away as Win-
netka, Ill. and as nearby as Irmo, S.C. The group is
talented and very promising, and should help Davidson a
great deal. The freshmen are Derek Rucker, Dean
Keener, Dave Fitzgerald, Jeff Himes, Mike Gynn, and
Terry Rupp.

Joining the freshmen are two transfers. One, junior
Patrick Riazzi, is eligible to play immediately. Unfortu-
nately for Davidson, sophomore Todd Scott must sit out
this year after transferring from the University of
Evansville. Davidson fans can look forward to Scott
playing next year.

Dave Fitzgerald

Fitzgerald is a 6’7” 190-pound swingman from
Maple Shade, N.J. Though Fitzgerald played center in
high school, Hussey has moved him to the swingman or
shooting guard position to take advantage of his speed,
fine outside shot, and ball-handling skills. Once
Fitzgerald adapts to the new position, his height will be-
come a tremendous advantage at a position largely oc-
cupied by smaller players.

As a senior at Maple Shade High School, Fitzgerald
averaged 19.8 points and 13.5 rebounds per game. He
was twice named to the All-Burlington County team and
holds his high school’s career scoring record.

“To be successful, all fourteen guys have to play
well and play together,” he said. “I think our trip to
Hawaii was very helpful in that it made the team closer.
Playing a top notch team like Virginia close showed we
are capable of playing with anybody. We may not be the
most talented team, but we are the hardest working.”

Mike Gynn

This 6°8” 208-pound forward from Winnetka, III.
averaged 20.5 points and 12.2 rebounds last year, and
hit 57 percent of his field goal attempts. as well. He re-
ceived All-Conference and All-Area recognition for his

fine play at New Trier High School. His ability to post-
up and score should make him a great asset.
“The big changes so far have been the increase in the
physical nature of the game as well as the fact that the

people are just bigger,” said Gynn.

“T didn’t think we played our best ball in Hawaii, but
it was a great experience nonetheless,” he added. “It was
good to get some experience and it should help our ef-
forts in the Southern Conference.”

Jeff Himes

Himes is a 64” 190-pound forward from Irmo, S.C.
He has started every game so far this season at small for-
ward and is one of the brightest prospects among the
newcomers.

Himes averaged 19.2 points and 7 rebounds per
game while garnering All-State, All-Region, and All-
Area honors at Irmo High School last year. He was also
chosen to by South Carolina’s high school coaches to
play in the state’s North-South All-Star game. To top all
that off, he was also class president.

“The competition is tough at the college level,” said
Himes. “In addition, the intensity is also higher. The
whole atmosphere is exciting and I’m glad to be a part of
it.”

Himes has skills in every part of the game. He has a
fine shot, solid ball handling skills, is a deft passer, and
plays as well defensively as offensively. Physically he is
remarkably similar to Davidson’s most recent roundball
deity, Kenny Wilson. Davidson fans are in for a treat in
watching Jeff Hines develop.

Dean Keener

Keener is a 6’3” 170-pound guard from Tallmade,
Ohio. He was a three-time selection to the All-Metro
League team and led Tallmadge High School in scoring
for three years. Keener was co-captain of his team his
senior year and averaged 21 points, 6 rebounds, and 6.5
assists on his way toward being selected to the third team
All-State in Ohio.

Keener will play second guard for Davidson this
year. He is an aggresive, hustling player possessing a
fine outside shot as well as solid passing and ball-handl-
ing skills.

“The Virginia game was very important to the
team,” Keener commented. “The Chaminade game was
a disappointment, but two straight games like that would
have been a disaster. We need to beat people like Vir-
ginia instead of being satisfied with merely playing them
close. The team wants to have a good year.! think we
have the potential to be a good team. If we keep up our
intensity, we'll be successful this season.”

Patrick Riazzi

Riazzi is a 5’1” 175-pound point guard from Ketter-

ing, Ohio. Riazzi spent the last two years at Henry Ford
College in Detroit, Mich., where he averaged 18.5
points and 6 assists last season. He was selected to the
Michigan All-State and All-Region 12 teams as well as
being the Most Valuable player in the Michigan State
Junior College Tournament. - og

“T think our depth at every position will allow us to
put a lot of pressure on our opponents. I hope to increase
my playing time as well as helping the team in any way
possible. I really think we are going to surprise some
people.”

Terry Rupp

Rupp is a 66” 225-pound forward from Tampa,
Florida. He averaged 29 points and 14 rebounds at
Tampa Jesuit High School. As a result, he received a
slew of honors, including Florida All-State and first
team all-city and honorable mention Street and Smith
All-American.

Rupp is a power forward with the emphasis on
power. He is expected to help the Wildcats by both pro-
viding some needed rebounding strength as well as with
his fine shooting ability. Rupp shot 53 percent from the
field and 78 percent from the line last year.

“The fact that everyone can play and play well has
been an adjustment for me,” said Rupp. “I’m not the big
thing anymore. But it’s fun to play at a higher level.”

Derek Rucker

A 6’ 160-pound point guard, Rucker averaged 18.5
points and 7 assists at University School in Cleveland,
Ohio. Rucker shot 56 percent from the field while being
placed on the Ohio AA All-State second team and was
the most valuable player in the New York City Col-
legiate Basketball Tournament.

Rucker has started all but one game of the young sea-
son and has played extremely well. He does everything a
point guard is supposed to do: pass, handle the ball, hit
the long jump shot, and play tough defense. Rucker will
play a very prominent role in Davidson’s fortunes.

“It has been fun so far,” commented Rucker. “The
trip to Hawaii was good for the team. We played well
against Virginia, a definite confidence booster. The
people playing college are quick and tough to cover. I
think by playing good defense and by taking charge
when I’m playing point are the ways I can help the
team.”

There you have the new faces wearing Davidson uni-
forms at the basketball games. Each and every one is
capable of making contributions to the team effort. The
success of the season will have a lot to do with how well

these players perform.

28036
892-7521

— Gourmet Foods ¢
— Lots of pottery for Christmas Gift-Giving

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.

x\

Cornelius

First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39
Da vidson

Huntersville

” The Season's Here !

parties more festive!

— with cards ~ to share special greetings!
— with ornaments and decorations to give — or to give your

room a holiday air!

+ The Village tore

EXPRESS THE WONDERFUL FEELINGS OF CHRISTMAS

— with Gifts - Our Specialty! For everyone on your list —
Wrapped Free, of course!
— with invitations, napkins, & candles — to make your

Offer Good
Dec. 7th-14th

Film Developing

12 exposure..........1.97 ms
N 24 exposure..........3.47 8

36 exposure..........4.97 ; t
15 exposure disc...... 2.576

.; TTP RPS E TES ET | Quality Fully MTs ateseuteres|

THE
ENT STORE

aVvidson

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROUNA 28036

-C-41 Process

