THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIll, Number 14

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 27, 1984

Officials from the Mecklenburg
County Department of Environmental
Health are investigating the possibility
that electrical transformers stored on col-
lege property behind the golf course con-
tain the toxic chemical Polychlorinated
Biphenyl (PCB).

Old transformers used only mineral
oil as a fire retardent an? “olant, but
newer models use PCB, ac. “ng to
DEH official John Gibson.

“To our knowledge we have no
PCB,” College Maintenance Engineer
Phillip Cashion said.

On Wednesday the DEH responded
to a call from Bill Meyer, an official with
Solid and Hazardous Waste Department
of the N.C. Health Service. A Davidso-

nian reporter had called Myer to find if

Plott Scholarship Competition

By DAVID McGEE

The Plott Scholarship committee has
decided to delay the first competition for
the scholarship until the 1985-86 school
year. The scholarship honoring former
chairman of the music department
Donald Plott would go to a promising
music student at Davidson. The commit-
tee had originally planned to hold a com-
petition as part of the Plott festival during
the 1984-85 school year.

Music department chairman Wilmer
Welsh cited two reasons for the decision.
First, the committee wanted to devote
more time to publicising the scholarship

to- potential candidates: The commiittee

would like to make the competition a na-

Health official inspects transformers

Health Officials Investigate Possible
PCB Storage On College Property

By LUND EASTERLING

transformers stored on Davidson’s prop-
erty might contain PCB.

The DEH arrived within an hour of
Myer’s call. They discovered 36 trans-
formers; two had minor leaks.

They ordered the College to make
immediate arrangements
Power to analyze the chemicals con-
tained in the transformers and to obtain
an Emergency Storage permit from the
Environmental Protection Agency.

The DEH also warned the College it
might receive a $25,000 fine for failing
to act on an order to stop pumping soapy
water and lime into the stream across
from the Black Student Coalition house.

If the transformers are found to con-
tain PCB, then the College must hire ‘“‘a
reputable person” to dispose of teh trans-
formers, according to Gibson. The trans-

tional event. “We couldn’t do this by
next year and get the caliber of students
we want,” Welsh said. Additional time
will also enable the comittee to arrange
for prominent musicians to judge the
competition.

Secondly, the committee feels the
‘program needs more financial support.
Last year’s Plott festival, highlighted by
a performance conducted by Zubin
Mehta of the New York Philharmonic
Orchestra, raised $300,000 of the
$400,000 goal. Welsh feels the entire

prog needs more money. “We
reali this is a bigger deal as we
got into it cided it was impossible

for next year, possible for the year

with Duke —

formers would need to be drained of the
oil. The PCB would be incinerated at
high temperatures or broken down by a
laser.

Gibson said that the deadline for dis-
posal of PCB-filled transformers was
January |, 1984. Any violation of this
law would entail a possible fine of
$10,000.

Cashion said that the transformers
were moved to their current site three to
four weeks before Christmas vacation.
The transformers owned by the College
had been decommissioned many years
ago.

The College is cooperating fully with
the DEH’s orders and should know with-
in 30 days if the transformers contain
PCB. It will cost Davidson College ap-

continued on page 4

Delayed

after, We want to do this absolutely
right,” Welsh said. The Plott festival cur-
rently has no budget, and Welsh sees a
need for one.

Earlier this year the committee was
divided over several controversies.
Committee member Joseph Robinson
‘62, who was an organizer and featured
performer at the Plott festival last year,
felt the intended purpose of the scholar-
ship was being compromised, especially
the provision for Plott scholars to study at
music schools and conservatories away
from Davidson. Most committee mem-
bers now feel they have resolved the dis-

continued on page 4

Grant Grantham

College
Considers
Buying Phone
System

By BOYD BLACKBURN

As a result of AT & T’s recent
break-up and anticipated Southern Bell
rate hikes, Davidson College has begun
to look into the possibility of a college-
wide, college-owned telephone system.

The earliest any system could be
operative would be fall 1985, according
to Director of Personnel and Administra-
tive Services Bob Stephenson.

The College will have to decide with-
in the next few months whether to ex-
pand existing equipment or to start from
scratch.

The current switching equipment for
Davidson College cannot be expanded.
This system handles only the 892-2000
number and its extensions. To incorpo-
rate student dormitory phones, either a
separate system must be built or the pre-
sent one scratched and a new comprehen-
sive one built. The other major technical
problem is whether to purchase existing
cables or to buy new ones.

Many decisions will wait until lost
cost estimates from Southern Bell are re-
ceived. The AT & T break-up has de-
layed this part of the process.

Stephenson believes there will be
many student benefits from a college
owned system. In particular, student ac-
cess to Davidson’s WATS lines would
significantly reduce rates on long dis-
tance calls.

SGA member Chet Barksdale will
represent students in implementing the
new phone system. Student support for
such a phone system will have to be ba-
lanced against the additional costs to be
incurred by the College. The Board of
Trustees will have the final authority
over any phone decision.

Inside This Week

Prepared: EMT's ready to assist in
medical crises. Page 4

Planet: Students in Science Fiction
seminar design their own world. Page
5

Workshop: My Cup Ranneth Over
and Architruc provide engrossing en-
tertainment. Page 6

Basketball: Cats win one but lose
two. Page 8

, Nuclear, War:. The need. to talk
about it. Page | 1

