Friday, January 13, 1984/The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

Denial Of Faith Depends On Faith

Charles Wiley

I am Christian. According to Eric Hill (“The Reality
of Reason,” The Davidsonian, Dec. 14) I have abon-
doned reality, my mind and my life. In short, I am tragi-
cally stupid. I disagree, and I will use reason — his god
— to defend faith in my God. Hill’s thesis is this: reason
is the only means to understand reality; therefore, faith is
useless. Hill’s argument consists of four main points
which I will address individually.

Hill’s first point is that humans can have “contact
with reality” only through sense perceptions interpreted
by reason. Why? Hill apparently feels his statement is
self-evident, for he gives us no argument. He does not
even tell us what reality is, a definition essential to his ar-
gument. He assumes a definition of reality that fits his
conclusion, leaving us with a brilliant piece of circular

reasoning: we can understand reality only through .

reason because reality is understandable only through
reason. He does give a very nice definition of reason,
“the integration of interpreted sense into concepts,” but
his failure to substantiate his assumed definition of real-
ity hurts his case considerably. Moreover, thinkers such
as Sartre, Kant and perhaps even Hume have acknow!l-
edged that reality may extend beyond the range of ra-
tional thought.

The second point is humans survive only by means
of reason. This is Hill’s strongest point, for the question
boils down to his opinion versus mine. I acknowledge
that reason is absolutely essential to survival; however, I
see other features of human nature which I believe are
also essential for a quality life. I believe that love is such
a human trait. Love gives a quality to life that nothing
else can, and I deny that it can be explained in purely log-

ical terms. Why? I can only appeal to my intuition and
hope that you share that intuition.

Next, faith “is the decision to abondon reality, to
abandon the mind and to abandon life.” Hill deduces this
statement from Ayn Rand’s definition of faith: the “com-
mitment of one’s consciousness to beliefs for which one
has no sensory evidence or rational belief.” Hill makes
two errors here. First, he uses a definition of faith from
one whose anti-faith stand is well known. He must either
use an accepted definition of faith or substantiate Rand’s

Hill has “proven”his view of
faith by deducing from two
assumptions. Furthermore,
Hill has not explained why
faith and reason are
necessarily contradictory.

definition. Second, Hill’s deduction is based on his view
of reason and reality that I have already shown to be as-
sumed. So Hill has “proven” his view of faith by deduc-
ing from two assumptions. Furthermore, Hill has not
explained why faith and reason are necessarily. con-
tradictory. I hardly think any of us would accuse
Aquinas or Einstein of abandoning their minds, yet both
believed in God.

Hill’s fourth point is that reason brings the “‘comfort-
able life” to humans in the form of material wealth,

while biblical faith commands Christians “to suffer out
60 or 70 years at a meager subsistence.” I acknowledge
freely that reason is the only means to financial success,
but I do not find financial success and the Christian faith
contradictory. Achieving financial success and making
that success an ultimate end are not equivalent. Nowhere
in the Bible do we find the command, “Thou shalt not
possess wealth.” What we do find is the command not to
seek wealth above all other things and to share that
wealth with others. Where Hill got the idea that Chris-
tians must “suffer out 60 or 70 years at a meager subsis-
tence” I do not know. He did not get it from the Bible,
nor does it follow logically from the assertion that wealth
should not be an ultimate end in life. Moreover, our pre-
sent Western economy owes much of its success to the
Protestant work-ethic, so Hill’s own lifestyle depends on
the labor and reason of people of faith.

God has not called on me to abdicate reason. No,
God gave me my mind, and for that reason if no other I
should use it. Reason poses tough questions for the per-
son of faith: “How can a good God allow suffering?”
“How can I know there is a God?” etc. However, Chris-
tians must not run from these questions. We must con-
front them.

I have shown in this article that Hill’s argument
against faith rests on his own faith: faith in reason and in
a particular view of reality. Mr. Hill, based on your as-
sumptions, faith in God would be intellectual suicide.
We can come no closer together in this dialogue until we
both admit that our disagreement rests mainly in our as-
sumptions and agree to look critically at those assump-
tions. I hope we can both be honest enough to do this.
Remember, “There are more things in heaven and earth,
Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”

Wiley is a senior religion major from Kernersville, N.C.

Christianity Does Not Exclude Reason

Hunter Monroe

I agree with the gist of the Opinion “A Kernel of
Faith” (The Davidsonian, Dec. 7, 1983) and want to
rebut the two responses to the article.

Matt Morris’ letter (The Davidsonian, Dec. 14,
1983) is so flippant that I am not sure whether he seri-
ously objects to “A Kernel. . . .” In any case, his letter
in unconvincing. First he states that the opinion makes
unsupported statements, and yet he does not support this
particular statement. Admittedly Lorenz and Cooper did
not t support their points in depth, but they sought to des-

st ene * Sphilczophiy Onc ies balfiags: deunayte

their rationality; they both made 4.0s freshman year.

Second, Morris asks why the opinion was written. I find
this question curious, since the purpose of Opinions
Page is to allow people to present their points of view on
important questions. The two wrote the article because
they thought their ideas were worth sharing. Third, he
says that these people with different perceptions of real-
ity scare him. This attitude disturbs me; most persecu-
tion occurs because of one group’s inability to deal with
another which is in some way different. People who pre-
sent their views forcefully do not scare me; people who
try to discredit others and their opinions with ridicule do.
I wonder if Morris realizes that Davidson’s Statement of
Purpose “recognizes God as the source of all truth” and
“sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history.” What a
scary place. (Oops! That’s ridicule, isn’t it?)

Eric Hill’s response to “A Kernel” impressed me; he
obviously spent more time writing it than the five mi-
nutes Morris used. Nevertheless, he overstates the im-
portance of reason and financial success. Reason is a
powerful tool, but Hill fails to mention its limitations.
For instance, in the early 1900s Kurt Goedel demonstrat-
ed mathematically that any sufficiently powerful, con-
sistent, logical system contains true statements which
cannot be proved true or false. In other words, any useful
system of reasoning will fail in a search for complete
knowledge. Also, the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle
of particle physics states that any observation changes
what is being observed. By Hill’s own analysis, such

tainted sense data will produce faulty concepts. A ma-
PSG NS RRND ve ROAARE AIA OU fen rten daal auth «wan

tre che men Rey wt we

a rational way, but he will find that he must also deal
with them on an emotional level. I cannot will myself to
feel a certain way, nor could I pass off the death of a
friend as merely another piece of sense data. completely
rational human beings do not exist. Poetry shows the ef-
fectiveness of a nonratinal approach to understanding
through imagery, metaphor, and perhaps even some bi-
blical references. Finally, a rational person must realize
that he takes a leap of faith in applying reason to the
world. He assumes that the world is reasonable. Thus, as
Hill does not acknowledge, reason has limitations and is
based on faith.

Even if the world is reasonable, Hill’s statement that
a rational man (person?) controls his destiny does not
follow. My brother dreamed for years of being a military
aviator, but his plans fell through when his eyesight de-

teriorated only slightly. If I had been born in a poor
country I would not be in control of my destiny; I might
be dead by my age. Man has some control over his des-
tiny, but there are plenty of smart, unemployed people.

I also disagree with Hill’s emphasis on financial suc-
cess. Such a goal is not sinful; Lorenz and Cooper did
not say that it is. However, many concentrate too much
on seeking the “good” life (making money). In my ex-
perience, people concerned about having a comfortable
life raise their standards of comfort as their salary in-
creases. I know very few people who have too much
money. Our consumption-oriented society distorts our
sense of need and luxury. Much of the world needs three
meals a day, while we need TVs and Walkmans and

nda and site ations i in ‘Sc owedeyaesy Bt ats ~ Joe -périsins: FjUSt Tape Ace

that, in choosing careers, people might consider where
they can most benefit others and not just themselves.

A person does not have to abandon his rationality to
be a Christian. C.S. Lewis, a triple honors graduate of
Oxford, gives a good rational justification for Christian-
ity in Mere Christianity. Christianity does require a per-
son to place the spiritual above the material and to regard
service above self. A materialistic and selfish person
will obviously find this religion unreasonable. But a ra-
tional person must recognize the limits and assumptions
of his rationality. When he wonders why the world is
reasonable in the first place he just might discover his
faith.

Monroe is a senior Mathematics major from Chapel Hill,
NC.
