Friday, March 16, 1984/The Davidsonian 1]

David Turgeon is this week’s Athlete
of the Week. Turgeon, a freshman, has
provided both good fielding and power
hitting as the starting third baseman on
the Wildcat baseball team. In a 13-11

Athlete Of The Week

win over Warren Wilson he had eight
RBI's, including a grand slam and a
two run homer. He also had three hits
in a 7—6 upset of Wake Forest. On the
season, Turgeon is batting over.350

Golf Course, Ex-Touring Pro
Enhance Golf Team’s Chances

By TODD WIEBUSCH

The Davidson College golf team be-
gins the spring season with perhaps its
best prospects for success in three or four
years.

Coached by Tom Cartmill, the rela-
tively young squad is composed of
seniors Gary Schenk (captain) and Dave
Lincoln, junior Todd Wiebusch, sopho-
more Bob Carr, and freshmen Tyler
Long and Tom Davis. Others on the team
who are expected to compete for the
Wildcats this year are senior Doug Hen-
son, junior Steve MacMillan, sopho-
mores Lee Neisler and Malcolm
Prochaska, and freshman Bobby Down-
ie.

This past fall the Wildcats played in
three tournaments: the Elon Invitational,
the Davidson Invitational, and the
Ground Hog Mountain Tournament,
winning the Davidson Invitational, and
finishing back in the field in the other
two. Schenck and Davis were the leading
golfers for the Cats this fall, but expect to
be challenged this spring by the rest of
what is proving to be a very competitive
squad.

The team’s prospects this spring have
been improved by two major develop-
ments. One is the recent opening of the
Covington Golf Facility located near the
baseball field. This provides the team
with a convenient place on campus,
thereby eliminating the need to drive the
hour long round trip to the Charlotte

Country Club.
The second development is the addi-

tional help to be provided by Tim Tal-
lent, an ex-touring pro, now a well
known and respected teaching pro in the
Carolinas. Tim will be travelling with the

A great way of life

Golf team opens season

team to as: many tournaments as his
schedule will permit, helping them with
advice and with practice sessions.

Currently the team is playing intra-
squad matches at Mallard Head Golf
Course and Charlotte Country Club to
compete for places on the team that will
play against Western Carolina and Pre-
sbyterian College at Maggie Valley
Country Club on March 20.

IF YOU WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN,
WE’LL PAY FOR IT.

If you’re willing to invest your skills and
knowledge as an Air Force medical officer,
we'll invest in you and pay your way through
medical school. It’s the Armed Forces Health
Professions Scholarship Program and it pays

Cats Break Class Barriers
In Conference Tennis

By KERRY BROWN

Over the years, Davidson tennis
teams have been like blue-collar workers
in collegiate tennis. The Davidson tennis
players were the dedicated proletariat at a
school with few athletic scholarships,
and the school competed in the bourgeois
collegiate tennis world that held them
down. ;

However, now the Davidson tennis
team has been lifted from the bottomless
pit which holds most proletariat tennis
programs. This pit resulted from bad re-
cruiting (due to lack of money), tough
scheduling (due to Southern Conference
competition), and a rigorous academic
load demanded from the bourgerois mas-
ter. Now, the blue-collar workers of yes-
terday’s collegiate tennis world are
threatening to break into the upper crust
of this tennis bourgeoisie. The team is
looking for what the bourgeois have al-
ways had — copious victories.

What events have drastically
changed the situation of the Davidson
proletariat? Davidson has seemingly
gone under a continual revolution in a
world where revolutionaries are usually
held back, if not withering away. The
students at least accomodate more class-
es. But Davidson’s surge to the top of
Southern Conference Tennis has gone
unnoticed. Davidson’s revolution has
brought good recruits, more money, and
in turn better records. The catalyst of
these results is Jeff Frank , Head Coach of
Davidson’s Men’s Tennis Team and the
Lenin-like figure in this sports ex-
travaganza. Frank laid the blue-prints for
the tennis surge and after 12 years at
Davidson, has obtained what the
bourgeoisie (teams like Furman and
UTC) in the Southern Conference have
always had — victories. Frank has just
gained the 200th victory of his career at
Davidson.

What has Frank done to creat a bunch
of winners on the court? He has prom-
oted the Davidson tennis organization to
winners by good coaching, top-notch re-
cruiting, dedication to his team, and a

desire for them to improve — both on
and off the tennis court.

Only one question remains: Can the
Cats continue their revolutionary surge
and become big winners like the elite in
the Southern Conference? “If we get ev-
erybody healthy we’ll have a real good
year. If the guys piay as scrappy as they
can we could have a very good win-loss
record, and our guys should give the big
scholarship schools trouble.” said Frank.

He has good reasons to make such
bold assumptions. The Cats have return-
ing lettermen in five of the six top posi-
tions, and the recruiting year for the
Wildcats was successful. Davidson man-
aged to lure excellent athletes such as
Hayes Dallas, who won the Indepen-
dents Cup for 18-and-under — in
Shreveport and who was once ranked
second in North Carolina in the |8-and-
under boys category; Trip Caldwell, an
excellent player who ranked number one
for Episcopal High School in Alexan-
dria, Virginia (a tough region for prep
tennis); and Michael Meyer of Charlotte
who once was number nine in North
Carolina.

With these gunners going, the Pro-
letariat Revolt looks promising. These
players are fine complements to the re-
turning veterans on the team. With Mark
Nottingham, Andrew Yon, John Hac-
kett, Bob Nichols, Sedge Gray and Greg
Hall returning, Davidson will be a potent
force in the the Southern Conference,
one which some teams may dread to
face. One such victim was Penn State.

’ The Wildcats destroyed the Nittan

Lions by a score of 6-3.

Though Davidson is in the blossom-
ing stage of the surge, the Cats still have
one thing hindering them — lack of ex-
perience. As Frank says, the Cats are
“experience-wise a year away from the
Southern Conference Championship.”
However, it’s always interesting to
watch a revolution take place, and
though the Cats are 2-2 the future is the
stage for their march towards victory.

HAPPY

for tuition, books, supplies, equipment and
lab fees plus a monthly income of more than
$550. See your Air Force recruiter for details.

(

TSGT BOB PAYNE
CALL COLLECT
919-755-4134

ST. PATRICK’S DAY!

Friday and Saturday:
Special on Irish Beer

And 10% Off Everything ina

Green Jar in the Store

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St.-Davidson, N.C
28036
892-7521

