14 Friday, September 14, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

The Real Problem

Does Davidson have a drug problem? Maybe. But the Dean’s of-
fice’s latest efforts to get the campus “‘on the wagon,” so to speak, might
create problems.

It is paramount that the Dean’s office, as in all of its disciplinary ac-
tions, must enforce the new policy fairly.

For example, many have accused the Dean’s office of “targeting”
particular individuals or groups on campus. Whether this happens or not,
the rumors do exist. It’s also somewhat of a given that freshmen are
policed more so than upperclassmen.Those under age 19 can’t legally
drink, but it seems illicit freshman drug use has received more attention
than freshman drinking.

The Dean’s office must strive to eliminate or neutralize these percep-
tions; if it cannot, it will be without the support of a segment of the com-
munity as it tackles the perceived “problem.”

The harsher policies, though, are not exclusively punitive. The hir-
ing of a drug counselor should aid more fully those who develop drug
problems. As Dean Terry has said before: “If a student has a drug prob-
lem, and they,can’t solve it, then we can give them time to seek help.”

Let’s hope a policy to curtail drug use doesn’t in turn become a prob-
lem itself.

Once More, With Feeling

We discussed Davidson’s race problems in our last editorial of spring
term. That editorial followed two R.A.C.E. forums and weeks of com-
mentary, sometimes vituperative, in The Davidsonian’s Opinions sec-
tion. Fortunately, however, spring term ended on a happy, if somewhat
apprehensive note. The Trustees began to take notice of the problem and
a rally during the last week of classes brought many students together to
celebrate the gains, rather than recapitulate the anger, of the term.

As articles in today’s Opinions section point out, however, students,
Trustees, and administrators cannot lose the momentum built up by the
impassioned discussion in the spring. To do so would sink race problems
into the same quagmire as self-selection and athletics, where serious
concerns emerge time and again, only to be resubmerged as people be-
come bored with them. If this happens, the impetus for change will fade
away, and with it any Black presence at Davidson.

We heartily commend President Kuykendall for helping carry
through this initiative. The Presidential Advisory Committee for Project
"87 will be a crucial step toward some kind of racial equity here.

But as we stated last spring, the “powers that be” must listen to the
voices of students and committees and College presidents. Students can
change each other’s attitudes, and maybe even those of their professors
and administrators. Only the Trustees can make the structural changes
necessary for healthy race relations awareness at Davidson.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class
postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of
Davidson College.

News Staff: Boyd Blackburn, Ted WilsonAssistant News Editors; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Died-
rich, Chris Fisher, Roxanna Guilford, Jay Hurt, Karl Lorenz, Shane Meeks, Tom Schilling, Chan-
don Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Ted Wilson

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Corliss Carter, Craig Detweiler, Stephen Mank, Matt Morris, An-
drew Wilson

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Carroll Overton, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Kevin
Horan, Rocky Kmeicik, Laura McGee

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Laurin de Beck, Joanneke Brentjens, John Redding, Todd Wiebusch, David Van
Pelt .

Production Staff: Jay Hurt, Kevin Horan, Brooke Knight, Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano,
Martha Yeide

_—_Citculation: David McCurry, Manager

In the summer of §4,t+he
dynamic duo veceive an urgent
call trom the DL housing office.

Thats tomorrow Robin! Theres not wuch time!
Call Com missioner Gordon and Tell him
the Joker will have te wait.—

To the Bat-Maby le ,/

Holy housing shorTage
Batman! Byll Bolding

“” Q new dor /
by September 414 |

y Leaping lounges and lofts
Batman! The Bet Anti-
Housing Shortage Pump

I's wor King ooo

ee
PS Clear oft ‘yp

a =
=

No time to lose Boy Wonders
Theves +he Bat Signal
over +he Athletic Complex!

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is your
chance to make your views
known. The opinions section is an
open forum available to everyone
who wishes to make a statement
about what is important to them;
The Davidsonian both encourages
and requires your input.

If you feel strongly about any
issue of major or personal con-
cern, write it down and present it

The Davidsonian “Opinions” sectior
is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent is-
sues. We will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest we re-
ceive from the campus community.

We adhere to these guitdelines:

1) We require that all articles be in
our hands at 7 p.m. Monday;

2) We accept typed articles and
those written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require tha opinions be
signed. We will print unsigned articles
only if compelling reason exists for

——Opinions Policy

to a Davidsonian staff member, or
bring it to the paper offices.

We encourage input from stu-
dents, faculty, alumni, and any-
one who reads The Davidsonian.
This is your opportunity to speak
out to the Davidson College com-
munity. We welcome both letters
and opinions articles. Tell us and
everyone else what is good, bad,
or interesting to you.

withholding the author’s name, and
the author is known to either the editor
or executive editor.

4)We will not edit opinions for
style or content but we reserve the right
to edit for rules of common English.
We will inform the author of substan-
tial changes.

5)Since space for Opinions articles
is limited, we reserve the right to select
articles from those we receive for pub-
lication. We will attempt to print any
article we withhold from publication
for space reasons the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all let-
ters of general interest, but we adhere
to these four guidelines

1) We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3) We require that letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number

——l|etters Policy

and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name,
explain your situation to the editors.

4) We reserve the right not to print
letters that a)function as advertise-
ments; b)contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c)represent a vie-
wpoint very similar to that expressed
in other letters printed on the same
topic.

