6

Friday, May 11, 1984/The Davidsonian

— Music

By STEVE MANK

Psychedelic Furs Become Best I Genre; Little Else

With the release of their self-titled
debut L. P., the Psychedelic Furs
quietly ushered in the neo-psychedelic
movement in pop music. Although far
from The Strawberry Alarm Clock or
The Vanilla Fudge, the new music fea-
tured the same wall of sound, lazy
melody lines, obtuse lyrics, and air of
mystery that identified the old.

In addition to all that, the six-mem-
‘ber Furs, led by the growling, accented
vocals of Richar Butler, had a charm-
ing capacity for slipping from slow,
contemplative, minimalist fantasies to
crashing, rhythmic dance movements
without missing a beat. Their first two
albums, under the pristine production
of Steve Lillywhite, were among the
first te feature a high percussion mix
against lush background of guitars and

synthesizers. Finally, with the release —

of the Tod Rundgren produced
Forever Now and the single “Love my

Way” and a touring band that included
a saxophonist and a cellist who played
on every song, the Furs, toa very mod-
est degree, conquered the states.
Now, two years after the release of
Forever Now, the band’s followup
album, Mirror Moves, is at last out.
The group, who once prided them-
selves on size, have trimmed them-

selves down to the very core —

Richard Butler singing, brother Tim
on bass, and John Ashton on guitar.
All others on the new record are ses-
sion men including the producer,
Keith Forsey, drumming.

Mirror Moves is certainly a far cry
from the sound the Furs used to sport,
but many of the better qualities have
been retained. The single, “The Ghost
in You,” is a strange excursion through
a love’s most curious, permanent, and
enthralling qualities. All the musicians
(in spite of the sorely missed drum-
ming of ex-Fur Vince Ely) are in top

form except for the ever-presen’
shortcomings in the bass-playing.
“Heaven” accentuates the band’s
excellent ability to reach for the
ethereal without losing the profane.
But the band’s newest effort, however
good, pales next to earlier works. The
music of the Psychedelic Furs seemed
always to be progressing toward a cer-
tain end, but there was always spon-

laneity Here the rough spots, which
weren't without a charm of their own,
are smoothed out, creating a sheen,
sometimes bland final product. Where
once the band could effortlessly shift
from slow to quick, bare to lush, such
changes now seem deliberate and at
times contrived.

However bland the album may
seem compared to past ones, it has its
moments — more moments in fact
than most released these days. The
main problem is that while once they
were harbingers to a new wave, the
new wave is now upon them and there
is nothing left to harbinge. Is there re-
ally anything wrong with finding your
niche and doing all you can within that
niche before moving on to a new one?
The primary fault in Mirror Moves is
that even though it is a great record, it
is far better to create revolutionary
music than to create the best of a genre
revolutionized four years ago.

Winner will receive first prize;

compete on CBS television

1985 MISS NORTH
CAROLINA-TEEN USA
PAGEANT

The official preliminary to the
MISS TEEN USA
PAGEANT
NO PERFORMING
TALENT REQUTRED

You can win fame and fortune as North
Carolina's representative in the nationally
televised MISS NORTH CAROLINA-TEEN
USA PAGEANT for 1985. Entrants will be -
judged on beauty, poise and personality. The
Miss North Carolina-TEEN USA Pageant will
be held at the Coliseum in Greensboro during
the weekend of August 24th. To qualify,
applicants must be between 14 and 17 years
old as of May 1, 1984, single, never been
married or a parent.

1985 MISS NORTH
CAROLINA-USA

PAGEANT
The official preliminary to the
MISS USA and MISS UNIVERSE
PAGEANT

NO PERFORMING
TALENT REQUIRED

You can win fame and fortune as North
Carolina’s representative in the MISS
NORTH CAROLINA-USA PAGEANT. The
search is on to find Miss North Carolina-USA
for 1985. Entrants will be judged on beauty,
poise and personality The Miss North
Carolina-USA Pageant will be held Saturday
August 25 in the Coliseum in Greensboro,
North Carolina. To qualify, applicants must
be between 17 and 25 as of May 1, 1984,
single, never married or a parent

<a

PLEASE SEND ME INFORMATION ON:

(€ MISS North Carolina Teen/USA
OO MISS North Carolina/USA

(PLEASE PRINT)
Name Birth Date
Street Address County
City : : State Phone
) TEL-AIR INTERESTS, INC.

1755 N. E. 149th STREET MIAMI, FLORIDA 33181

bee « ° , e
- - PB 4 thie doesn't pertain to you, please pase it on-to a friend!

warene: ae we in

. - The next time you stop by for the Best Eatin’™ fring.
alona this money-savin’ coupon.

i Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per

visit, please. Customer must pay any sales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good during regular breakfast hours

only at participating Hardee's Restaurants | , ‘di 9

through May 31, 1984.
¢ 1983 Hardees Food Systems. Inc.

May 31. 1984.

* bd

Ss 1983. Hardee's Foad Systems, Inc.

a oe
4

REGULAR ROAST BEEF SANDWICH, REGULAR
FRIES & MEDIUM SOFT DRINK $1.79

Please present this coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer, per
visit, please. Customer must pay any vales tax due. This coupon not good in
combination with any other offers. Offer good after 10:30 AM, only at
participating Hardee's _ _ Restaurants through - “geet ‘

