Friday, March 23, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

Athletes Add Diversity To College

Russ West
And
Bob Letton

A great debate has begun on campus as to the impor-
tance of athletes to Davidson College. The faculty have
expressed their feelings, the students theirs also, yet no
one has expressed the views of those who would be af-
fected the most — the athletes themselves. Since we are
student athletes we would like to defend our position,
and being football players we feel it needs to be defended
the most.

The Davidson Athletic Survey was recently given to
faculty members and students, with 81 faculty and 239
students responding. (Did anyone ever question the val-
idity with such a poor student turnout?) In it, 80% of the
faculty and 59% of the students reported that they felt
football was overemphasized. The faculty sugge
that too much money is spent on football.
that if they check the figures they will find we s
than any of the teants we are now playing.
suggested playing schools of similar academic stan-
dards. Just how much money do you think it would take
to travel up North every weekend to play the Ivy League
schools? Furthermore it was suggested that the basket-
ball team has unrealistic goals of competing in the

NCAA. If we were ranked in the top ten befure, then
who’s to say it can’t happen again? We believe it can.

Another area of concern is that with the rigorous
academic requirements the athletes are at a disadvan-
tage. Granted practice takes time and energy, but most
of the athletes we are associated with are getting the job
done and attaining a degree of success. Many are ac-
cepted year after year into graduate schools and find
themselves relatively successful in their jobs. We like
the challenge that being a student athlete presents to us at
Davidson College.

Along those same lines, many of the faculty feel that
by increasing recruiting in order to be more competitive,
the quality of students will go down. We thought that the
stereotyping of athletes who can’t even spell their own
names had ended long ago, but apparently Davidson is
still behind the times and can’t accept the fact that many
athletes are as intelligent as the student population at
large.

Perhaps an even greater question that should be ad-
dressed is how all of these proposed changes affect the
very essence of this school. Or as the faculty puts it:
“What purpose do athletics serve at Daivdson?” When
applying for admission to Davidson (yes, we had to be
accepted), we were told that the College was a blend of
many diversified personalities. Through our interaction
with student athletes and student nonathletes, we don’t
see how anyone can diminish athletic participation with-
out hindering the quality of life here at Davidson. With-

out athletes, Daivdson College would consist of mostly
upper-middle class Caucasian students. At the begin-
ning of this school year, 50% of Davidson’s black popu-
lation played either basketball or football. How would it
look if the size of the balck population were any lower
that it already is? Many of the athletes are from varied
backgrounds and we feel that athletics are necessary for
Davidson to remain a truly diversified environment.

Our athletes represent not only the individuals and
the coaches, but Davidson College as well. Whenever
we set foot on the field we are not just a few individuals
competing, but Davidson College putting its reputation
on the line. A lot of the student population doesn’t
realize this, as can often be inferred when someone says,
“Oh, they lost again!” When will people realize that
we're all in this together and try to support us rather than
cut us down? Intramurals are great, but stepping onto a
flickerball field with your friends is just not the same as
laying your reputation on the line week in and week out
during the fall with football.

This article has no intention of proposing a solution;
maybe we should have tried. But we the athletes feel that
it is high time someone recognized our individual effort
and sacrifice for the good of the community, rather than
trying to tell us we “detract from the College’s purpose.”
—-- oo
Letton is a junior Pre-Med major from Mt. Sterling, KY.
West is a sophomore economics major from Roswell,
GA.

provided with outstanding special fea-
tures such as thematic dinners (Chinese
New Year, French Café, Mediterranean
Evening, Christmas Feast, etc.), study
nights and breaks during exams, and the
opportunity to invite a prof down to
lunch free of charge. Creating an enjoy-
able and comfortable atmosphere, the
Commons has become a place to eat
while also relaxing, discussing, reading,
and even reflecting over possible letters
to the editors.

Many thanks to Mr. Pritchard, Ms.
Junkin, and the whole dining service for
a job well done.

Gould
Endorsed

To the editors:

In the next year Davidson College
will face a variety of new and important
challenges. Some of these include: the
arrival of President Kuykendall, the re-
solution of our campus security problem,
the continued efforts toward racial
awareness, the re-assessment of David-
son’s athletic emphasis, and especially

Chris Gunn

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all let-
ters that are of general interest, but we
adhere to these four guidelines:

hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3)We require thet letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name,

Letters Policy

1)We require that letters be in our -

the continuation of increasing stuident
input.

The SGA president will have the op-
portunity and the responsibility of deal-
ing with each of these questions. Thus, it
is crucial that the next SGA president
have leadership skills and a proven re-
cord in dealing with campus issues. Over
the past three years Warren Gould has
exhibited these qualities as a class sena-
tor.

In addition to serving as class sena-
tor, Warren’s other responsibilities have
included:

— junior class co-President.

— chairman of the Patterson Court Study
Commitee, which generated a reformed
self-selection process.

— member of the Presidential Advisory
Paper Commitee that will present a re-
port of student organiztions and opinions
to President Kuykendall this spring.

— member of the Student Conduct
Council.

— member of the Student Executive
Council.

Warten Gould has been a very con-
cientious and well respected member of
Davidson’s student government. His
leadership has been effective and has led
to numerous postive results. Therfore,

‘explain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print
letters that a) function as advertise-
ments; b) contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c) represent a
viewpoint very similar to that ex-
pressed in other letters printed on the
same topic. We also reserve the right
to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any
way endorse the opinions expressed in
the letters that we print.

because we feel that Warren Gould has

outstanding credentials and accomplish-

ments, we strongly support his candi-
dacy for SGA President.

Edward L. Hay, Jr.

John Allen Mast, Jr.

Pat M. Woodward, Jr.

Jeffery Mann

Ross Holt

Paula Miller

Anne Elliot

Annie Porges

Laughlin
Endorsed

To the Editors:

The coming school year will be a
truly important one for Davidson Col-
lege. This institution will have a new
president to guide it, and thus a new era
will arrive as he begins his term here. In
order for the students of the college to
have significant input into the decisions
of the new president, the next SGA presi-
dent must be keenly aware of issues
which concern the students, and must
have the ability to present the views of
the student body so that their concerns
will be addressed by the president, the
Trustees, and the Faculty. ..khe G4
president must be will organized and
have true leadership capabilities so that
the voice of the students will be heard.
We believe that John Laughlin has these
qualities. During his term as Co-presi-
dent of the Junior Class he has shown that
he cares about the role of students in the
the decision-making process of the col-
lege, serving on the Semester Implemen-
tation, Faculty Evaluation, and Presiden-
tial Advisory Paper committees. He has
shown his leadership and organizational
skills through his duties as co-chairman
of the SGA Phonathon and as a freshman

Hall Counselor. We believe that he will
bring commitment and dedication to the
office of SGA president, and will best
serve the college and his peers for the
coming year. We hereby endorse the
candidacy of John Laughlin for SGA
president.

T. Hartley Hall V
Rob Spaugh
Paige Marsh

Bobby Silver
Mark Sandy

Ed Lilly

Ellen Papadeas
Jack Cobb

Trip Caldwell
Robert Bradford
Thomas Evans
Nancy Rosselot
Grady H. Smith
Ed Henderson

Bingo!

To the editors:
Re the Matt Morris review of Tender
Mercies in the March 16 Davidsonian:
“Bingo” you might say. Give the man a
raise.

James Rozzelle

Congratulations

To the Editors:

Congratulations on an excellent first
issue. It was the best first issue I’ve seen
done by any editors. Of course you still
have a year ahead of you in which to im-
prove — I look forward to the results.
Keep up the good work and try to make a
few Friday classes.

-David B. Resnik
Editor's note: Resnik is an editor
emeritus of The Davidsonian.
