14 Friday, September 21, 1984/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor
John Gathings, Production Manager
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Stéve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

Advising The President

The Presidential Advisory Paper is a good, solid document, as far as
it goes. The various articles and reports should provide President
Kuykendall with a well-grounded, complete analysis of such issues as
race and Patterson Court.

Unfortunately, the advisory paper has some serious shortcomings,
both in conception and execution.

Though these detract only mildly from what is there alread , discus-
sion of serious issues are absent or omitted for one reason or another.

Athletics, of course, is the most Staggering omission. “The reason
is,” according to the paper’s preface, “that opinions about the athletic
program are too many and too diverse to examine in this brief paper.” So
were opinions about Patterson Court, but the PCSC (after two years, al-
most, of study) did a commendable job consolidating its material into its
section of the paper.

As it stands now, last year’s athletic survey is the only tool President
Kuykendall has to qualify student opinion about athletics. Even a report
explaining the reasons behind some of the survey’s numbers would have
been more than helpful.

Whether the fault lies with the advisory paper committee, or with the
SGA Athletics Committee, whether the mistake here was procrastination
or an error in judgment, the omission is an unfortunate one. Without
something to quantify and qualify student opinion on atheltics, President
Kuykendall and other administrators who might desire a concise assess-
ment will be unable to heed the imprecations contained in the preface to

the advisory paper.

These omissions might have been avoided, however, with stronger
committee coordination. Collation of the paper kept pushing the comple-
tion date later. Finally the responsibility for getting the paper to President
Kuykendall’s hands fell on S.G.A. president John Laughlin, rather than
the committee chairperson.

The paper, though, has gone to President Kuykendall’s desk. We
urge him to study the material closely, but with the knowledge that the
paper is incomplete, and has left major student concerns unrepresented.

Getting The Vote Out

Though most college students would say voting is a “good thing,”
they sure don’t act accordingly. The National Student Campaign for
Voter Registration (NSCVR) polled students in 1980. The results: 16
million 18- to 24-year-olds did not register to vote in the 1980 election.

Besides having a voice in our government — a right that not évery-
one in the world shares — there are other good reasons for voting. Voting
stands as a record of the opinion of a political constituency. Even if acan-
didate does not win, the support he or she receives influences what other

law makers think about the issues the candidate stands for.

Many elections are close. Had one voter in each precinct voted diffe-
rently in 1968, another president would have been elected. Often, fewer
than 50 votes decide Senate, Congressional, and local elections.

Absentee voting is simple, just contact the elections board in the
county of your legal residence and find out how to register or obtain an
absentee ballot.

A voter should also know why he or she votes for a particular candi-
date. The Election ’84 committee on campus aims to get students in-
volved with this year’s election. The committee plans to hold discussions
and sponsor speakers, which everyone should try to attend.

Don't let this election pass without having a voice in deciding what
direction our elected officials take the nation.

No Cause For Alarm?

To be the best fire alarm that it possibly can, a fire alarm ought not to
go off when it has not been triggered by a fire.

Some fire alarms in Watts and Sentelle, however, have been squeal-
ing their apocalyptic whine (a lot of things are apocalyptic at 2. a.m.), ab-
sent a fire.

Though this is not a burning issue (if it were, we'd have pictures), if
these fire alarms keep crying wolf, no one will pay any attention when
one achieves its designated purpose.

_ a Sdanring John Kuykendall

€ to extreme violence, noone
“under 17 will be ad

outa Davidsen Trustee.

\S9

met+ted Ww the-

LETTERS

Wildcat(s)

To the Editors:

I would like to express my concern
over a recent change in the appearance of
Davidson (and believe it or not I am not
referring to the new Post Office or the
two missing trees on the Chambers
lawn). Upon my return I noticed that a
certain colorful bit of town had gotten a
“facelift”: the pawprints that are so art-

fully scattered about. My concern arises

not from the new coats of paint but from
the new shape the prints have taken.
Davidson’s pet beastie is, I believe,
called a “wildcat.” Whether or not this
somewhat general term applies to the na-
tive North American lynx (Lynx lynx) or
bobcat (Lynx rufus), or to a European
wild cat (Felis sylvestris), which could
have been imported by the Scots, is ir-
relevant for my purposes. Even the fact
that the genus Felis includes a number of
“wildcat” species such as the African
wild cat (F. sylvestris libyca), the Indian
desert cat (F. sylvestris ornata), the

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all let-
ters of general interest, but we adhere
to these four guidelines

1) We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2) We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3) We require that letters be signed
and include the author’s phone number

Letters Policy

' letters that a)function as advertise-

Chinese desert cat (F. bieti), the sand
wild cat (F. margarita), the jungle cat
(F. nigripes) does not distress me as does
the fact that the so-called “wildcat” paw-
prints found here in Davidson have claw-
marks.

Cats, that is, members of the family
Felidae, have retractable claws; they are
able to draw the claw up inside a sheath
to protect it, especially to prevent
damaging and/or dulling the claws while
walking (let me stress this specific action
as the wildcat(s) apparently was (were)
walking when it (they) left the prints).

Given this fact, plus the fact that cats
are more intelligent than dogs (ranking
below big bears, elephants, Old World
monkeys, apes, and man) and would
probably not stupidly allow their claws to
scuff and scrape the hard-surfaced roads
of Davidson, plus the fact that the prints
are somewhat large for any species of
wildcat, I would venture to guess that the
prints were made by some member of the
family Canidae — that is, dogs, or
perhaps a wolf — maybe even a wolf
pack.

Clare Eckert

and address. If you have a compelling

reason for us to withhold your name,

explain your situation to the editors.
4) We reserve the right not to print

ments; b)contain innuendo, off-color
slurs, or inside jokes; c)represent a vie-
wpoint very similar to/that expressea
in other letters print « on the same
topic.

The Davidsonian “Upinions” sectior
is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent is-
sues. We will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest we re-
ceive from the campus community.

We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in
our hands at 7 p.m. Monday;

those written legibly, double-spaced.
3) We require tha opinions be

signed. We will print unsigned articles

only if compelling reason exists for

Opinions Policy:

t
2) We accept typed articles and

article we withhold from publication

withholding the author’s name, and
the author is known to either the editor
or executive editor.

4)We will not edit opinions for
style or content but we reserve the right
to edit for rules of common English.
We will inform the author of substan-
tial changes.

5)Since space for Opinions articles
is limited, we reserve the right to select
articles from those we receive for pub-
lication. We will attempt to print any

for space reasons the next week.

