Friday, February 3, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Niki Scott Addresses Changing Women’s Roles

By ALLISON WILLS

‘Men are bewildered because all of
the rules that they followed for so many
years have all been changed,” Niki Scott
said to a Love Auditorium audience of
100 Monday night. Scott, a syndicated
columnist for more than 150 newspa-
pers, spoke as part of Celebrate Women
Week. Her speech, entitled “You Can Be
a Superwoman, But Do You Want to
Be,” considered the realistic aspects of
women’s changing roles.

“I wonder if some expectations are il-
lusions,” she warned women. “I believe
that what we really believe is that we'll
work if we don’t get married or until we
have a baby. It doesn’t matter what you
want to do. . . you will work. It is no
longer true that you will have an option.”

Scott stressed in her talk that working
for women is no longer a choice but a
necessity because of the economy. “You
won't have the choice anymore of stay-
ing home and raising children,” she said.
“This will not affect children adversely.
All the statistics show . . . that it really
doesn’t matter. Quality time versus
quantity is not just a cliché. It is true.”

‘We will have to take ourselves seri-

ously ,” she urged. “We still wait for a big

Nationally syndicated columnist Niki Scott

strong man to take care Of us. We just
can’t wait for that.”

Women, Scott believes, have had
good experience in being sensitive and
soft spoken, and she thinks that this is an
asset in the business world. “Sometimes
we sound abrasive . . . but we’re new at
this. The gentleness and caring that
you're afraid won’t work out there

works,” she said. “And I hope you don’t
put those [assets] aside.”

Scott is encouraged by the tremend-
ous strides women have made just over
the last five years. “I see caring and
bonding among women. “That's new,”
she said. “What we learned along the
way is that .. . by taking one another
seriously, we began to be friends.”

Peggy Pierott

Scott achieved recognition with her
column, Working Women which reaches
more than 23 million people weekly. She
began the column while working for The
Charlotte News, and in 1976 she joined
the United Press International.

Scott said she began the column be-
cause she felt the media is not addressing
the concerns of most American women.
‘Articles on preparing elegant meals. . .
or how to deal with earning more than
your husband, have nothing to do with
the way most of us live,” she said.
“These so-called ‘glossy’ magazines
give false messages.”

As a single working woman with two
children, she understands the concerns of
the average woman, and her column ts
designed to make women realize that
they are not alone. “I have felt so lonely,
and it’s so nice to know I’m not the only
one who’s not all together,” she said.

In addition to her column, Scott has
written several books including The
Working Woman: A Handbook for Work-
ing Mothers and The Balancing Act: A
Handbook for Working Mothers. She
also serves as a contributing editor for
McCall's Working Mother Magazine.

Panel Discusses Attitudes Toward Women

By FRANCES PALMER

Attitudes toward women at Davidson
have changed and continue to change,
according to a six-member panel discus-
sion sponsored by the Women’s Con-
cerns Committee as part of Celebrate
Women Week.

Mary Jo Clark '79, senior Anne El-
liott, senior Bob Bruce, political science
professor Tom Kazee, Associate Dean of
Students Sue Ross, and junior Keith Re-
vell comprised the panel. Around 50 stu-
dents, faculty, and administration met at
4 p.m. in the Morrison Room Tuesday to
listen to and question the panel.

Clark is a graduate student focussing
on ministry with women Although she
feels her studies of the church and
women’s liberation have made an impre-
ssion on her, perhaps the biggest change
in her perspective came with her mar-
riage to Union Director William Brown.
Clark commented that even though she
kept her maiden name after her marriage,
“it is hard not to go into a disappearing

ct.” She feels she has always followed
feminist philosophy, but her marriage
has helped to break down ingrained ideas
she did not realize existed.

Eliott discussed her feelings about’

the similarities and differences between
modern black women and modern white
womenb. She commented that black
women “never had to learn to be strong”
since they have gained “strength from
suffering.” In the working world, how-
ever, black women have problems simi-
lar to those of white women. She feels
that “the main thing that messes us
|+.omen] up is us.” Elliott emphasized
that every ‘nodern woman needs a strong
faith in God because “materialism
doesn’t make up for what you need in-
side.”

Bruce was quick to point out that “ev

eryone has their own view” of what a
modern woman should be. He feels that
growing up with three sisters and no
brothers helped him to apprerciate
women, he commented that his good re-
lationship with his sisters gave him the
basis for strong friendships with females
in high school as well as at Davidson. He
stressed the idea of “modern people” and
encouraged the women in the audience to
have confidence in themselves.

Kazee discussed his experiences in
balancing a career and a family. “I don't
want to suggest it’s easy. I don’t want to
suggest that it will work only if you both
want it to — that’s part of it,” he said.

Kazee’s wife gives music lessons in the
evening to about 55 students, and Kazee
commented that their conflicting
schedules do not always leave time to re-
flect in the evening. He stressed, how-
ever, that a proper attitude is crucial.

He feels that the hardest thing for
modern men is “fully accepting the fact
that my wife's career 1s just as important
as mine is.” He added that too many men
“are willing to pay lip-service to the
wife’s career as long as it doesn’t inter-
fere with ours.” Kazee cautioned men
not to approach their wives from the per-
spective of “I'll let you have a career,”
because “a woman has a right to a care-

* Ross commented that when she was
growing up, her grandmother was the
head of the family, and she was taught
that “being a woman was not a detri-
ment.” She said she had always felt free
to be herself and was shocked when she
“found out” that women felt suppressed.
She was, however, disappointed that,
because “my brain is in a female body.”
she could not attend UNC for her under-
graduate degree.

She also commented that she thought
Davidson men would not agree with past
attitude that women “were taught not
ever to win at athletics.”

Faculty To Retreat For Weekend

By DAVID VAN PELT

Members of the Davidson College
faculty and staff will head for the woods
this weekend.

Campus Chaplain Charlie Summers
organized the retreat, which will take
place in the Presbyterian Conference
Center in Montreat, N.C., near
Asheville. Twenty-five faculty and staff
members will attend, as well as several
Trustees.

According to Summers, the focus of
the retreat will be to re-evaluate David-
son’s status as a church-related institu-
tion. “It will all relate to how we handle
the concerns and issues of a church col-
lege,” he said.

The retreat will be led by Harry
Smith, former University of North
Carolina campus minister and professor
of religion at Yale, now president of Au-
stin College in Texas. Smith has led
many retreats of this kind, according to
Summers. “He was one of the names
suggested as a good person to work with
Davidson faculty on a retreat,” he said.

Those familiar with Smith applaud
his appointment to lead the retreat. En-
glish professor Richard Cole said, “In
part I'm going because of Harry Smith.
He has an excellent reputation in leading
retreats of this type. I think he will be in-
teresting and provocative.”

Retreat activities will commence on
Friday evening with a discussion of
popular conceptions and assumptions
about church-related colleges. Saturday

Smith will give lectures on distinctive |

qualities of church colleges, and the im-
plications of church-relatedness. Discus-
sions will center around these lectures.
Sunday Smith will address methods of
reflecting and strengthening the church-
college relationship, and then hold a
summary discussion and adjournment

fore noon.

| The Staley Foundation, an endow-
ment for Christian activities on campus,
is sponsoring the retreat. There will be no
expense for those participating.

This weekend's excursion will be the

first faculty retreat in over 20 years. The

only retreat of any type in recent years
was one on campus in the mid-*70s. dur-
ing a Trustees meeting. which also dealt
with Davidson's status as a church-re-
lated college. “I think through the years
faculty interest in this kind of thing has
declined,” said Pfofé’ser Cole. Cole
cited the decrease in church activity by
faculty members as a reason for this.

The ide#'for this retreat, according to
Dean of Students Will Terry, came out of
meeting he had with Charlie Summers
this summer. This year the Presbyterian
Church is emphasizing its responsibility —
in higher education, Terry said, “and we
though that this was one of the ways we
could observe it.”

Terry acknowledged the less explicit
role of the Church at Davidson today
than in the past, noting the cessation of
mandatory vespers attendance in 1966
and chapel service in 1968. “There are
some people who think that we have lost
our identification as a church-related col-
lege.” he said. “And we would say it’s
not as obvious as it was.”
