Friday , February 17, 1984/The Davidsonian

11

-~ 4

OPINIONS

Reagan’s Simplistic Foreign Policy

Dr. Louis Ortmayer

‘The Reagan Administration rolled into Washington
in January, 1981, with two central tenets in a worldview
which formed the basis of foreign policy. The first pro-
jected the Soviet Union as the source of most trouble in
the world, and the second built upon this by directing the
U.S. to increase its military power, in order to counter
the perceived Soviet threat and maintain global leader-
ship. President Reagan entered office, however, with no
ostensible blueprints for foreign policy, and he
fashioned a staff and administration with fewer experi-
enced officials in top-level foreign policy positions than
any in recent decades.

Three years later the situation has not changed ap-
preciably. Gone are some of the “stars” of the early
Reagan foreign affairs team: Judge Clark and ‘General
Haig. But the world view remains, with its concomitant
ideological passion. The result is that atop a world al-
ready made volatile by its many small-scale conflicts is a
layer of superheated rhetoric between the United States
and the Soviet Union, an impasse which contributes to
an apprehension sensed strongly in Europe, and in the
USSR, and even apparently at home. Even Georgia Sen-
ator Sam Nunn, no outspoken critic of the Administra-
tion’s general policy framework, has been brought to re-
mark recently of Reagan’s tendency to blame Moscow
for everything that goes wrong in the world:

It is a gross simplification to judge everything we do in the
world as being in response to or opposed by the Soviet Union.
That is a simplification of foreign policy that is out of touch
with reality in a place like the Middle East, with so many his-
torical animosities that would be there if Karl Marx had never
been born.

And foreign policy issues are remarkably constant after
these same three years, although many have become
more acute.
International Political Issues

The unquestioned number one issue and therefore
priority is the creation of means and/or channels for get-
ting a handle on the nuclear arms race. The sharp
rhetoric and current absence of any arms negotiations
between the U.S. and the Soviet Union have become
especially critical because of the on-going technological
momentum of the arms race. Progress on arms limita-
tions and, further, arms reductions is acute on the eve of
the deployment of new generations of offensive strategic
weapons (MX, Cruises, Trident submarines and D-5
missiles, and their inevitable Soviet counterparts).
Wishful thinking about a 21st Century “High Horizons”
defensive system merely seeks to obfuscate the serious-
ness of current decisions and technological leaps for-
ward. Overlooked in the Reagan Administration’s obvi-
ous self-satisfaction with the scheduled deployment of
Pershing-II and cruise missiles in Europe is the fact that
the U.S. and NATO are also obligated by the stipula-
tions of the 1979 NATO modernization decisions to
reach (simultaneously with deployment) substantial cut-
backs and understandings on East-West theates ~-" ~~
force levels. The INF talks, desultory at their height,
have been suspended altogether since November.

Finally, in the nuclear arms area there is emerging
the little-known corollary to the US/Soviet arms race —
nuclear proliferation. A number of “threshold” nuclear
countries (including some signator states) are pointing to
the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and noting
that they no longer feel themselves obligated to a treaty
which made non-proliferation dependent on the capping
of US/Soviet vertical arms proliferation. The unraveling

>

of 15 years of hard-fought arms control is proceeding
rapidly in the Third World as the U.S. prefers to stand
eyeball-to-eyeball with the USSR.

The Reagan Administration’s fanfare for a long
sought justification for its Latin American policy — the
multibillion dollar Kissinger Commission plan — also
deserved attention. The commission report succeeded in
providing rationale for the continuing program of mili-
tary and economic aid to the region, but it fell short of
creating its second goal — a domestic consensus behind
that policy. It also skirted two central issues: whether aid
to El Salvador (or other states) should be contingent
upon improvements in human rights, and second,
whether the U.S. should continue its “covert” assistance
to rebels in Nicaragua. Moreover, the commission did
little to change Administration views about the offer by
the Contadora countries (Mexico, Venezuala, Panama
and Colombia) to get the opposing sides talking and
negotiating. Washington seems to prefer confrontation
and a grandiose Kissinger plan (where the $8 billion wil!
come from in an already overextended budget is a good
question) to the contadora “process,” which finds that
negotiations toward some peace in Central America are
possible and preferable to a deepening war. The militari-
zation of U.S. policy has become perhaps most notable
therefore in this area, with the creation of what some are

calling the “U.S.S. Honduras.” And militarism, often
a)

And militarism, often
disguised as patriotism (as in
Dr. Johnson’s “last refuge”),

is becoming the easy

refuge of an undifferentiated
and simplistic world view
turned policy.

disguised as patriotism (as in Dr. Johnson’s “last re-
fuge”), is becoming the easy refuge of an undifferen-
tiated and simplistic world view turned policy.

In the Middle East, a wandering Reagan Administra-
tion policy, which began with strong pro-Israeli views,
shifted to a much more detached position exemplified by
the 1982 Reagan Plan, and floundered in Lebanon, will
undoubtedly swing back toward Israel in 1984. This
latest shift reveals no new (or even old) bluepring for
U.S. policy in this theater, rather a traditional domestic
congem for the Jewish vote which reaches a crescendo in
an election year. The complexities of Lebanon and the
abject failure of this Administration in fashioning its
hoped for anti-Soviet strategic consensus in the region
have left this arena of U.S. foreign policy marked by a

at. amalgam of inconsistency, assertiveness, and

nclusive caution. Meanwhile Egypt drifts back into
the Arab world and the Camp David framework crum-
bles.

In southern Africa, a crisis waits to explode. Three
years of U.S. statecraft which has served to reassure and
assuage South Africa on the questions of Namibia and
Angola have left settlement on Namibian independence
more illusory than in 1980, and Angola more dependent
on Cuban troops in the face of South African incursions.
The Reagan Administration’s strategy of “constructive
engagement” has not visibly advanced the primary goal

a

of peaceful change; but it has provided a perceived con-
vergence of U.S. and South African policies in the eyes
of almost all other interested parties in this area of the
world. Black Africa does not view this conjunction with
equanimity, and the long-range consequences for U.S.
interests in the whole of Africa are not promising.
International Economic Issues

The overriding concern of the Reagan Administra-
tion with the domestic American economy has also had
important international repercussions. To many critics,
it is imperative that the U.S. not only recognize the fact
of international economic interpendence (which domes-
tic preoccupations obscure or downplay) but that the
country also move toward developinbg policies and
forums of international consultation for dealing with this
contemporary international fact. Simmering trade dis-
putes with Europe and chronic trade imbalances with
Japan along with foreign complaints about the status of
the dollar are only symptoms of deeper, fundamental
problems.

Firstly, the whole question of international
economic competitiveness is only beginning to emerge
on the Reagan foreign agenda. Instead, stop-gap meas-
ures protecting politically powerful U.S. industries
(autos, steel, textiles, etc.) have provided practical con-
tradiction to an Administration rhetorically committed
to free trade. The impact of unprecedented and presuma-
bly unending U.S. government deficits have thus far
been questioned principally with regard only to their
domestic repercussions, while closely related interest
rate differentials, capital outflows, and depreciating cur-
rencies (relative to an overvalued dollar) plague reces-
sion ridden economies in Europe and elsewhere. The
Reagan Administration has strongly resisted the realiza-
tion that domestic U.S. policies and programs have
major international economic consequences, repercus-
sions which if other countries move to protect or insulate
themselves will increasingly come back to haunt U.S.
foreign policy and economy. And in two area of major
future concern, energy and Third World debt,
Washington has developed almost no policy guidelines
at all. The breathing space which a world glut oil glut has
created as a cushion for the Reagan Administration is un-
likely to last a second term. And a renewed energy crisis
will hit much harder in an already overextended de-
veloping world.

This survey concludes with the contrast of two con-
flicting views about Reagan’s foreign policy. The first
(generally subscribed to by many Americans) holds that
this Administration, after years of U.S. weakness and
indecisiveness, has taken up the cudgel and faced down
a hostile Soviet Union, revived the global economy, re-
scued NATO, and generally reestablished real American
leadership in the world. The second is related by British
analyst David Watt:

The other view is shared to a greater or lesser extent by much of
the rest of mankind, with the possible exceptions of the Is-
raelis, the South Africans, President Marcos of the Philippines
and a few right-wing governments in Central and South Ameri-
ca. It is that the Reagan Administration has vastly overreacted
to the Soviet threat, thereby distorting the American (and
hence the world) economy, quickening the arms race, warping
its own judgment about the events in the Third World, and
further debasing the language of international intercourse with
feverish rhetoric. A subsidiary charge, laid principally by the
Europeans, Canadians and many Latin Americans, but fre-
quently endorsed in the Arab world and the Far East, is that ina
desperate desire to rediscover “leadership,” the United States
under Reagan has reverted to its worst unilateral habits, resent-
ing and ignoring, when it deigns to notice, the independent
views and interests of its friends and allies.

Ortmayer is an Associate Professor of Political Scicnce.
