Friday, March 23, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

SGA Weekend:

Terry » Griffith Ask Postponement Of Hattie’s Night

By DAN ciry

Wide-eyed with wonder, 90 high
school seniors are discovering first hand
exactly what “the Davidson experience”
really is. Begun yesterday afternoon, the
annual SGA Weekend is trying to expose
these prospectives to the best aspects of
the College’s social and academic life.

After checking in, the visitors will at-
tend two days of non-stop activities
featuring talks, dinners, tours, movies,
dances, discos, classes and even a few
precious hours of free time. They will
leave tomorrow afternoon.

Students, under the direction of SGA
Weekend Chairman Ester Kim, plan and
execute the entire operation. The pro-
spectives are staying with freshmen to
promote comradeship and encourage ex-
ploration of candid student opinion about
Davidson.

While the format of the program has
changed slightly since last year, the pur-
pose has not. It remains a major way, in
Kim’s words, “to attract the most gifted
prospectives to Davidson.”
Counsellor Alex McCallie, prior to last
year’s event, said “they are the most

Admissions-

Prospectives mix and mingle at an SGA weekend function.

qualified candidates from all over the
country. And ultimately, it is the be-
havior of the students that will decide
them [the prospects].”

This concern over student behavior
came into conflict with Davidson’s an-
nual Hattie’s Night party held tradition-
ally on the second Thursday of Spring
term. Dean of Students Will Terry, Dean
of Admission John Griffith and Admis-
sions Counsellor Wendy Smith met

Monday with Fannie and Mable social
chairman David Resnik and requested
that the party be postponed.

They gave two reasons for the re-
quest. First, they felt that Hattie’s Night
would draw students away who would
normally attend the disco scheduled on
Thursday night, thus depriving the pros-
pects a chance to mix with students.
They could attend the party but not drink.
Second, the administration felt that Hat-

should present.

tie’s Night was an unusual event. “It is
not the kind of impression that Davidson
It is sort of inapprop-
riate,” Terry said. He said that Hattie’s
Night traditionally had been just a time
for drinking beer and was not representa-
tive of the usual type of parties at David-
son.

Resnik refused to postpone because
preparations were too far along. The ad-
ministration’s desire for moderation was
fulfilled because F & M did hire a band
to play and will seriously enforce the
drinking age. They checked I.D.’s at the
door last night, stamped hands, posted
signs, and hired a campus policeman.

Many saw this as an attempt to clamp
down on student freedom and whitewash
campus social activities. Resnik said “‘it
was probably done in good faith, but
some might interpret it as paternalistic.
We chose that night because it was the
best time for it and tradition demanded
it.” He also felt much of the wildness of
the event was removed when a student
was shot at Hattie’s Night three years
ago. Now it is just “a good, big party,”
said Resnik.

New Faculty Evaluations Have Limited Value

By TED WILSON

The new faculty evaluation form,
used for the first time last term, has re-
ceived mixed reactions. The new format
was designed by the Professional Affairs
Committee, headed by religion professor
Alexander McKelway.

McKelway said, though he has not
heard from much of the faculty, ‘“‘several
professors who I’ve talked with thought
the new form was useful.” He said “they
liked the supplementary nature of the
form,” which requires students to give a
written answer to the questions, not just a
numerical one. The old ICES form “was
a scaled report and there were technical
problems with it,” he added.

French professor Lauren Yoder said
that the ICES and the PAC forms “are
equally beneficial. There was always
some opportunity to write short essays on
the ICES evaluation sheet.”

He added that Vice-President for
Academic Affairs and Dean of the Facul-
ty T.C. Price Zimmerman “will have to
assign some numerical values anyway,
consciously or subconsciously,” when
making his decisions about tenure and
job promotions. Yoder finds the numeri-
cal system of the ICES format beneficial
in comparing classes by year.

Math professor J. B. Stroud ex-
pressed the sentiment of many faculty
members who had asked for a prose for-
mat. Stroud said, “I have no problems
with the new form.” He did, however,
find merit in the old one. “Professors
could choose 23 of their own questions in
addition to the three global questions
which dealt with the content, instructor,
and course overall.” Students could write
on the back more extensively about pos-
sible course improvements. The short
questions were strictly quantitative.
Stroud said “some professors thought the

administration used the numbers exces-
sively. Many complained that the stu-
dents weren’t required to sign the old
forms at all.”

Junior Rob McCormick found value
in the essay form “if students take time
on, and give thought to, the essays. I’ve
found that most people are pretty willing
to do so.” Freshman Priscilla Faucette
said the new format is better than the one
designed by the SGA last fall, which in-

cluded questions from the ICES. “It
gives more freedom to clarify one’s opin-
ion of the professor,” she said.

Yoder said, ‘the grades are already in
when we get the forms,” ensuring that
students’ grades aren’t affected by their
remarks. However, one professor said “I
don’t want to know who said the specific
comments.”

Professors were required to devote at
least 30 minutes of class time to the form.

While one professor said that half of a
class period can be crucial at that part of
the term, many felt that the forms would
not be returned if they were done at stu-
dents’ leisure.

Zimmerman, who was unavailable
for comment, has the job of reviewing
the students’ comments. The new sys-
tem, however, does not require that
every professor be evaluated by Zimmer-
man each term.

Students’ Efforts Help Save Program

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s Gethsemane _ tutoring
program is back in operation, thanks toa
grant by the United Community Services
organization.

The program, in which Davidson stu-
dents and public school teachers help
local elementary school children with
schoolwork and other activities three
times a week, discontinued after first
term because of insufficient funds.

The program costs an extimated
$18,000 a year. Expenses include salary
for the two teachers and two aids attend-
ing each session, refreshments, and the
cost of occasional filed trips and cultural
activities. A Christmas Gift Fund raised
a portion of the $10,000 needed to com-
plete the year, but most of the sum was
included in the grant from the United
Community Services organization. The
tutoring program resumed in late Janu-
ary, after the donation was arranged.

One problem with the Gethsemane
program in this area, according to Peggy

Brown of the Davidson Community Cen-
ter, is that it receives no funding from the
original Gethsemane program in Char-
lotte. According to Brown, the Charlotte
organization started several years ago by
a minister (Gethsemane was the garden
where Jesus spent his last hours before
crucifixion), is directed towards six
target areas in Charlotte. The Charlotte
Community Development Funds spon-
sors those areas, but offers no financial
assistance to tutoring programs outside
Charlotte. The Charlotte Gethsemane or-
ganization, however, does assist the
Davidson program in bookkeeping, hir-
ing, and other administrative duties.
Davidson College volunteer tutors
are headed by sophomores Ellen Oerter
and Steve Hughes. They estimate that
fifteen Davidson students regualrly at-
tend one of the weekly Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday sessions. Par-
ticipants note both the program’s attri-
butes and difficulties. “Sometimes you
feel like you’re there as a babysitter,”
Ruth Clark said. What she finds most re-
warding, however, is “you can tell they

really love to have you there.”

The program instructs children froin
grades three through six. Children be-
come eligible for tutoring with scores in
the bottom 30% of the standardized CAT
tests. Tutors are not assigned to specific
students, but many tutors find it most ef-
fective when they become acquainted
with particular students. “The ones that I
know better are more responsive. It's
harder [for the children] to be responsive
if they don’t know us,” Eleen Oerter
said.

The Gethsemane program sponsors
activities and field trips as an accompani-
ment to classroom study. Tutors took the
students to the circus and the Christmas
Heritage Village earlier this year. Chil-
dren receive free swimming lessons at
the Davidson guy the first three weeks of
this term. According to sophomore Chad
Magnuson, such activities “offer an op-
portunity for us to see the kids outside
tutoring, and for them to see us ina little
different light.” Magnuson sees the
Gethesemane program as a valuable ex-
perience for Davidson students.
