Friday, January 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

Retel Without A Cause
James Dean Portrays Youths’ Frustration

By CRAIG DETWEILER
Rebel without a Cause (/955) Starring
James Dean, Natalie Wood, Sal Mineo,
Jim Backus, and Dennis Hopper. Di-
rected by Nicholas Ray. ***'/2 8 p.m.
Saturday in Love Auditorium

Dissatisfaction, alienation, and the
struggle to reach maturation abound in
James Dean’s screen persona. With his
collar up, a snarl on his lips, and a scowl
on his face, Dean was the rebel who
acted out the frustrations of an entire gen-
eration of youth. In Nicholas Ray's
Rebel without a Cause, James Dean fully

realizes the emotions that characterize :

young Americans. Centered on Dean's
character Jim, the movie also features a
brilliant supporting cast and a solid,
highly dramatic plot.

Rebel focuses upon the entry of an
outsider, Jim, into an average suburban
community of the 1950s. Jim con.es
from an affluent family background, but
his heritage and upbringing cannot gain
him acceptance in the high school world.
He immediately enters into a conflict
with classmates on a field trip to a
planetarium. The new kid in town be-
comes a little too friendly with Judy,
played by Natalie Wood.

Jim eventually finds another friend in

Pluto, portrayed by a very young Sal
Mineo. Jim, Judy, and Pluto form a deep
bond of comradeship that satisfies the
need for love that all of the film’s charac-
ters experience. Jim’s family situation
does not provide the emotional support
and release his friends do. With a
domineering mother and a cowering
father (Jim Backus of Mr. Magoo fame),
Jim has no positive influences on which
to model his life. Like many folks within
modern society, Jim is caught between
parents with whom he cannot communi-
cate and peers trom whom he cannot gain
acceptance. Unable to cope with the dis-
tance between himself and the world,

Jim grasps for love and life which con-
stantly elude him. When his efforts fall
short, he adopts his only other option —
to fight simply to know he’s alive.

Jim’s efforts to rebel appear believa-
ble solely because of Dean’s perfor-
mance. The confrontation between Jim
and his father would be laughable if Dean
did not plea so realistically to become a
man. He makes the audience feel his
hurt. Jim’s conflict with his peers comes
to a climax in a conventional, clichéd
game of “chicken.” If Dean did not have
the viewer totally enmeshed in his char-
acter, the scene would fall apart. Much
of the film's entertainment value arises

form the opportunity to watch Dean act.
Like the other famous “method” actor of
the fifties, Marlon Brando, Dean con-
sciously calls attention to his acting
through exaggerated speech patterns and
body posturing. Rather than dissolving
himself into the character, Dean chooses
to play James Dean acting like someone
else. Thus, the joy comes from observing
Dean the person act, instead of Dean the
actor playing a person.

While the highly dramatic tone of the
film is dated, the fine acting and direct-
ing retain their original power. Nicholas
Ray employed many wide camera angles
that heighten the audience’s sense of
Jim’s alienation. Ray’s direction does
not call attention to itself though, re-
maining clear and consistent throughout.
The young stars provide splendid perfor-
mances that enable current audiences to
relate to their characters.

Ironically, the future stars who por-
trayed kids living too fast and precari-
ously met with similar early deaths. The
creative, unharnessed energy and desires
of youth, both in fact and fiction, often
lead to unfortunate fatalities. Rebel with-
out a Cause brilliantly expresses the re-
stlessness and isolation of young people
that causes triumph and tragedy.

BLNY Wins 1983-84 College Bowl Championship

By TIM WAPLES

Another successful Collge Bowl
intramural season concluded Monday as
Better Luck Next Year took the 1983-84
championship. After an opening-game
loss to The Thundering Amoebi, BLNY
racked up eight consecutive victories.
Senior Stewart Cauley and juniors Ann
Meador, Tim McGaughey, and John
Munson formed the squad which became
the first team in three years to win the
title without the aid of a sexually oriented
team name.

Runner-up Whiplash had won seven
straight going into their first confronta-
tion with BLNY. Their defeat confirmed
their status as the Nebraska of College
Bowl. In the return engagement, a Cor-
nhusker-like second half comeback by
Whiplash fell short, giving BLNY the
 gittec noise ths. CN AS Eapree 2

The real excitement came a week ago
Tuesday, in the early rounds of the tour-
nament, when Rubber Babies made the
General Manager’s move of the season:
College Bowl guru Greg Rhodes was
brought out of retirement to join the
team. In true Rhodesian fashion, Rubber
Babies battled to a third-place finish. In
three years, three Guru-piloted teams
have finished third. Farther down the
list, Madd Mudd finished fourth, and
Pisces and | Phelta Thi were tied for fifth.

Announcing the College Bowl Trend
of the Future: each of the top three teams
found acommon name on their rosters —
Ann Meador of BLNY, Anne Goodwin
of Whiplash, and Anne Lambert of Rub-

ber Babies. Whiplash captain Kirk
Kirkpatrick took advantage of the situa-
tion: when Anne Goodwin couldn't
make the finals, he located the proper re-
placement, Ann Mitchell.

This new trend hasn’t gone unnoticed
in the Green Room; Coach Hansford
Epes is adjusting his recruiting tactics.
Considering that Jodie Foster is at Yale
and Brooke Shields is at Princeton,
perhaps he might consider inviting Ann
Jillian or even Ann Margret to the Green
Room.

Varsity Action
_ The end of the intramural tournament
does not mean the end of Davidson Col-
lege Bowl. The varsity team, sporting a
7-2 record this season, swings into action
Feb. 11-12 at the ACU-I regional tourna-
ment at UNCC. Plans are underway for a

Lo varsity’ toutiaimene ‘tebe “held nere wr

Davidson in late March. Also, tryouts
are going on this week to choose the al-
ternate for this year’s varsity team.
Intramural All-Stars

The Green Room is pleased to an-
nounce this season’s Senior All-Star
Teams, who will meet at a later date in an
exhibition series.
National League:
Stewart Cauley of BLNY
Drew Davis of Pisces
Joe Jaworski of Egomaniac
Jeb Benedict and Randy Stroud of Madd
Mudd

American League:
Rick Graves of 1 Phetta Thi ~

Jeff Mann of Fourth Estate

Dan Voorhis of Whiplash

John Graham and Karl Pfefferkorn of
Rubber Babies

Finally, the Union Board College
Bow! Committee would like to thank the
over 100 students who participated in

this season's activities. Special thanks go
to Dr. Epes and Dr. Manning. who read
hundreds of questions week in and week
out to eager buzzer freaks. At more ir-
regular intervals in the future, keep an
eye out here for the latest from the Green
Room. .

—— Food

By ANDREW WILSON

Missing: Art deco posters hanging on
sg ew ee Berry re
and fireplace. Also bagels, beers, and
burpy philosophic talks in the “upper
room.” Answers to the name “Old Pereg-
rine House.” Of great sentimental value.
Reward offered.

If you go to the New Peregrine House
on Depot Street you will find a pleasant
replacement to the old restaurant. Own-
ers Bob and Betty Johnson opened the re-
located Peregrine House on Nov. 16 and
thank the college community for “a very
good response.”

The old House will be moved to a
new location on Jetton Street and bzcome
a private residence. Mr. Johnson says al-
though some people will miss the old
house, he believes the new location of-

New Peregrine House
Offers More Variety

sliobtlu. laaning— walle. soo > ~ “MByO\.i aS Tally Ceo vegumme m Feb:

fers “‘a little more variety.”
The new Peregrine House features
daily lunch specials, weekend specials.

ruary. There is also an expanded menu
which includes smothered chicken (it’s}
more trouble than simply wringing their
necks, but it’s definitely worth the wait).
According to Johnson, a salad bar 1s “a
possibility” and a mixed drink license is
“a very good possibility.” He said an out-
side eating facility or “beer garden”
should hopefully be ready in the spring.

Despite all the changes, Johnson
maintains he is not necessarily aiming for
a different clientelle, but wants to make
the new restaurant attractive enough for
students to bring their parents.

The new Peregrine House still offers
a delivery service from 8:30 to 4:45 each
evening.

