Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian = 3

Panel Discusses European View Of America

By BO TAYLOE

“With all your resources, how is it
possible that all you could find was a
peanut farmer and a B-movie actor?”
This question, according to Barbara
Wojhoski and a panel discussing the for-
eign perception of American politics,
exemplifies the European view of the
American electoral process. Wojhoski
and five faculty members comprised the
panel, which met at the Open Luncheon
Wednesday.

Political Science Professor Lewis
Ortmayer opened the discussion by des-
cribing the view of the foreign press and
concluded with comments on the East
European perspective. Political Science
Professors Brian Shaw and James Hol-
lifield focused on France while German
Professor Douglass Stott and Wojhoski
discussed German views.

Ortmayer related a tendency among
foreigners to prefer the challenger over
the incumbent President while expecting
the President to win. According to the
“Survey of World Press,” Ortmayer said
79 percent of the major foreign editors

polled predicted Ronald Reagan would
win. A majority of the editors stated also
that their countrymen preferred Walter
Mondale. The two most important is-
sues, media leaders said, consisted of the
lack of agreement on arms control and
the deficit of the U. S. government.

The panelists concurred that the elec-
tion has impact abroad. They said foreig-
ners may not understand the American
electoral process, but they have an opin-
ion about it. “The concerns of various
political parties converge on the issue of
East-West dialogue,” Wojhoski said, in
a “life or death urgency.” The mainte-
nance of peace supercedes all other is-
sues for West Germans.” The American
economy stands as the second major con-
cern in the election for the West Ger-
mans, according to Wojhoski. Referring
to interest rates, she said “they feel like
they have kept their economy in bounds
and we haven't.”

The American “cult of personality”
amazes the French, who. “think we do a
very poor job in selecting leaders,” Hol-
lifield said. French political candidates
are highly trained, he explained, and the
French do not understand how men with

The Davidson debate team prepares to deny that “America deserves
Reagan” during Tuesday’s public debate.

Project Match Tests Attitudes

(continued from page |)

the entering freshman classes of the past
four years, using interviews and a ques-
tionnaire which he devised. The Class of
"86 was tested again in its sophomore
year, he said. The Learning Context
Questionnaire (LCQ) consists of 50
questions (such as “For every problem
there exists one solution,” and “Asking
questions is more important than finding
answers’’) and six levels of agreement,
from “strongly agree” to “strongly disag-
ree.”

Griffith conducted more extensive
interviews with a more limited scope of
students, he said, which covered the
same general concepts.

He described students as “very
cooperative” in the study. Students re-
ceived the LCT forms in the mail, he
said, and 90 percent responded. While he
considers it premature to draw conclu-
sions from the study, he said the attitudes
of Davidson students appear “typical of
bright, highly motivated students.”

Project Match’s Faculty Steering
Committee consists of psychology Pro-
fessor Ruth Ault, English Professor
Frank Bliss, French Professor Everett
Jacobus, psychology Professor John
Kelton, biology Professor Don Kimmel,
and philosophy Professor Earl MacCor-
mac. Griffith said each professor has
pursued his or her own research within
the study.

Kimmel said he modified his Biology
21 class last spring to represent more ac-

of development.

curately the scheme of intellectual de-
velopment created by psychologist Wil-
liam Perry, which is the foundation of
Project Match. According to Kimmel,
Perry’s scheme has numerous levels of
intellectual growth on which people
move from lower to progressively higher
levels. From an acquiescent trust of au-
thority, for example, we gradually devel-
op our critical and analytical faculties.

Kimmel said he familiarized his Biol-
ogy 21 students with the Perry scheme,
and adjusted his lectures, tests, and study
groups to examine it in the classroom.
Students were asked to keep a journal of
their impressions of the course, he said,
and on tests “I asked them a short series
of questions about the questions in the
test.” He said his efforts resulted in a
“fair evaluation of students in the course
of aterm.” He said he is currently using
the Perry scheme in an experimental
biology course.

According to Ault, Project Match de-
rives its name from the attempt to
“match” each student to his or her own
level of intellectual development. She
said she structured a seminar course last
year to allow students either to construct
their own plan of study or follow one
which she devised. Final grades for the
two groups approximately equalled each
other, she said, which offered evidence
that the two groups chose the proper level

the backgroud of Jimmy Carter and
Ronald Reagan can be elected. The
French view politics cynically and won-
der how the Americans can force one of
their few capable Presidents to resign
over an issue such as Watergate, he
added.

“People are concerned overwhelm-
ingly with the issue of war and peace,”
Shaw said. “The French are not con-
vinced that Reagan is the best man for
peace.” Hollifield disagreed. He asserted
that because of their fear of the Russians,
the French supported Reagan’s deploy-
ment of medium range nucléar weapons.
According to Hollifield, the biggest issue
of the election for the French was the
economy. France’s recent economic
shift to the right might reflect expecta-
tions that Regan will be re-elected, he
said.

Soviet citizens are receiving “better
information than ever before” about the
American electoral process, Ortmayer
said, and they are ‘very worried about
the East-West arms race.” The Soviet
press has distinguished between the gov-
ernment and the American public in the
past, he added, in order to stress common

characteristics between the Soviet and
the American people. For the first time,
however, the Soviet press is now casting
America as a whole in an anti-Soviet

light.
“Speaking about the election is
synonymous with speaking about

Reagan,” Stott said, describing the East
German view of American politics.
“What bothers them about Reagan is that
he is making the Russians antsy.
Rhetoric is getting a lot of attention, and
they are afraid that the rhetoric is going to
spark something.” The East Germans are
concerned with an “ostentatious pro-
Americanism, almost an hysteria,” they
associate with what “Reagan expresses,”
he said. Shaw pointed out that the French
regarded American behavior at the sum-
mer Olympics as “ugly nationalism as
opposed to patriotism.”

West Germans view Americans as
“people who place a lot of emphasis on
image,” Wojhoski said. She added that
the Germans “are uncertain if we are ex-
tremely naivé or if we are so cynical that
we present this democratic process for
the public at large while people in the
backstage are pulling the strings.”

Womens’ Committee
Seeks ‘Positive Approach’

By ROXANNA GUILFORD
Now in its third year as an official
Union committee, the Women’s Con-

cerns Committee has established itself as”

a facilitator of discussion, information,
and various student activities. This year,
senior Elizabeth Laughlin heads the
committee. Her co-vice-chairmen are
junior Mary Beth Harding and senior
Ellen Papadeas. Senior David Sisk, the
only male member of the committee,
edits the newsletter which he sees as an
“open forum for the entire campus”
rather than simply a reflection of the
WCC's views.

At the first meeting this
Laughlin said, the committee established
three objectives for the year: “First, to
present a positive approach to living as a
woman, secondly, to provide access to
resources for women, and finally to be-
come a resource ourselves.”

Both Laughlin and Sisk emphasized
that the WCC is open to the entire cam-
pus. “We have tried to reach a broader
range of people,” Laughlin said. “In
targeting our programs, we hope to make
a greater number of people interested and
involved.” Sisk said “everyone at David-
son is invited to join, or just come and lis-

term,

is not a militant: feminist

club.”
Activities planned for this term in-
clude a debate between regional female
representatives from the Mondale and

Reagan camps. Sisk pointed out that
these are key women in the campaigns,

and not “flunkies off the street." A panel
of four members will receive prepared
questions, and political science Profes

sor Mary Thornberry will moderate the
event. There will be an opportunity for
audience questions as well. The debate is

tentatively scheduled for Oct. 31

Next) Wednesday, the WCC. will
sponsor a “Coffee and Cokes” in the
Chambers gallery. Also in the works lic
programs of the feminization of poverty,
self-defense for men and women, and car
maintenance for men and women. In ad
dition, Sisk soon hopes to have the semi
monthly newsletter distributed door to
door. Right now, anyone can pick one up
in the Union, he said.

The WCC formed in the 1982-83
school year under Sherburne Laughlin
"82. She was followed by Papadeas,
whose term expired last spring. Meetings
are held every other week, usually at 9
p.m. on Mondays in the Big Screen
Room.

Humes Receives Grant

(continued from page 1)

Israel.

Religion Professor Max Polley, di-
rector of first year Humanities, said the
team “was concerned about the speed [at
which] we go through the material,” and
decided to spend more time on The Odys-
sey, and the Greek and medieval art
periods.

Polley said the in-class writing work-
shops incorporated into the program
have “improved the students’ writing tre-
mendously .” The new emphasis on writ-
ing “seems to be what sold the program
to the NEH,” he said.

Polley said the team differed on
whether the course should cover certain
areas and periods in-depth or continue to
give equal attention to a broad range of

eaaee

topics. He said the present curriculum
falls in between the two extremes. “We
drop into one area in depth [such as The
Odyssey} without pulling it outof histor:
cal context.” while studying sufficient
material preceeding and following the in-
depth topic, Polley said. In past years, he
said. the course has treated each period
of history equally.

Asked how the school can measure
the efforts of the curriculum changes.
Polley said surveys completed by juniors
and seniors, and graduates are helptul
Feedback from = other professors. he
added, helps to determine if Humanities
students are well-prepared. or slipping.
as they pursue their majors

Cr rr er
