Wednesday, December 5, 1984/The Davidsonian 7

— Music

By STEVE MANK

These days, making a record costs
a whole lot of money. Big record com-
panies cannot afford to go putting out
upwards of ten thousand dollars for
every group which comes along that
might make it.

If the “majors” don’t want to take a
gamble they shouldn’t have to — who
are up-and-coming musicians to stand
in the way of good ol’ American
capitalism?

Fortunately, there is the EP. If an
American band (British bands can
make it on nationality alone) wants just
one chance in the spotlight, a record
company may give them an EP of four,
five, or six songs. If the band is good,
it will get exposure; if not, the com-
pany stands to lose a lot less than if it
had released a full album.

This “probationary rock” launched
the careers of R.E.M., The Alarm, and
Let’s Active, among others.

That said, it’s time for yet another
EP roundup.

Love Tractor

*Round these parts, Love Tractor,
perhaps the most promising group that
plays Patterson Court, has always
made a big stir. The band’s pizzacato
guitars, often unaccompanied by voc-
als, have won it much critical, but little
popular adulation.

The group’s new disc, ‘Til the

teus tcme

heme

Cows Come Home, follows the same
tradition, though it is stronger vocally.
The best song, “Neon Lights” (a
Kraftwerk cover), is for a change voc-
ally complete. It seems strange that
group members sing so infrequently —
their voices are hardly lacking.

What makes the combo great,
though, are songs like “March” and
“Cutting Corners (Cultural Version) ,”
which begin slow and, instead of fal-
ling back on the old reliable drum and
power chord explosion, simply add
variations on the theme.

The Pressure Boys

Chapel Hill, N.C. home of Other
Bright Colors and | [plus] 2 is trying
really hard to be the next Athens, and
with the release of the first EP from fa-
vorite sons The Pressure Boys, it may
very well do it. The four song Rangle-

EPs Give Up-And-Coming Musicians a A Chance

doon, is, if anything, ska-oriented pop
that’s careful not to step on the toes of
Madness or The English Beat.

Lacy guitar work on the back-
beat and sung/spoken vocals uttered at
breakneck speed highlight the first
song, “Where the Cowboys Went.”
“Policemen (in my Neighbor’s Yard)”
is strong ska, while “Fakin’ Dub” is re-
miniscent of some of The Clash’s most
effective reggae excursions.

In addition, the Pressure Boys
have about the best sense of humor in
pop music. The EP comes complete
with a “bonus blank side included
free.” The logo of their own Root Da
Doot Doo record label contains a pig
which you can dress up in a cutout In-
dian suit, space suit, or pirate suit,
among others, and affix to the record
with the aid of “PRESSURE BOYS

THE WIND. -

brand ARTIST CEMENT, or PRES-
SURE BOYS brand 3/4°° WOOD

SCREWS [purchased separately ].”
The Wind
The Wind’s Guest of the Staphs,
produced by Mitch Easter, is like a trip
into the sixties. The group does not
sound like a revisionist band — they
can’t even be compared that easily to

any band of that era — but they retain
that same flavor and quality of many
groups from, say, 1966.

“House on Fire” is as punchy a pop
song as ever was. Try to imagine a
group singing “I’m a sureshot baby/
I'm a sureshot baby/ I'm a sureshot
baby/ I'm a sureshot, Sure Shot.” and
getting away with it. The Wind did.

[t's A Wonderful Life Embodies Christmas Spirit

By CRAIG DETWEILER

Frank Capra’s finest film, /t’'s A
Wonderful Life deals with nothing less
than the unfulfilled American Dream,
false measures of success, and the spirit
of Christmas. /t’s a Wonderful Life cen-
ters on an all-American, wholesome,
good guy named George Bailey, who
contemplates suicide. Appealing to the
heart and emotion within all people,
Capra’s film entertains, involves, and in-
spires the audience in ways current
movies do not even attempt.

Not about divorce, espionage,
homosexuality, or murder, /t’s a Won-
derful Life celebrates the significant con-
tributions of one individual to others. In
an existentialist era, Capra dares to pre-
sent the positive impact of one simple,
modest man, George Bailey. Capra’s
motion picture involves people and
places that may appear overly cute,
maudlin, and clean-cut. George, super-
bly portrayed by James Stewart, always
makes the self-sacrificing, right deci-
sions that normal folks abandon.

Through flashbacks, the plot reveals
that Bailey’s choices lead him to finan-
cial hardship and a confining small town
existence. While George prepares to end
what he believes is a useless, failed life,

Fp

21212 Catawba Ave.
Comelius, N.C. 28031

Pinchpetiny’s

— 10% Discount to Students

God sends a clever, grandfatherly angel
to George to offer a different perspec-
tive. The angel, named Clarence Odd-
body (Ward Bond), takes Bailey on a trip
through history that reveals what others’
lives would be like if George had not
existed. Clarence shows George what
Bedford Falls, acommunity quite similar
to Davidson, would have become if he’d
never lived. George leads his
townspeople away from alcoholism,
prostitution, foreclosure, and death.

Compared to the cynical, tainted
anti-heroes of modern cinema, George
seems almost sickeningly sweet and in-
nocent. Instead of detracting from the
film though, George’s naive goodness
refreshes and charms modern viewers
barraged by gritty, depressing films. As
pure fantasy, /t’s a Wonderful Life enter-
tains the audience in the timeless, pure
style of the good old days. They really
don’t make ’em like this anymore.

On the surface, one may find the
movie pleasant, unrealistic light com-
edy, but it contains deep, universal
thoughts and hopes. Through the pro-
tagonist’s life, Capra comments upon the
shifting moods of folks from World War
I to its release date, 1946. Bailey’s refer-
ences to big plans and great adventures

MERLE M, ROBBINS

Manager
104-992-1926

parallel the boisterousness of the roaring
twenties.

The young George expresses op-
timistic dreams of life outside Bedford
Falls. Whenever George appears ready
to depart his hometown, the needs of
others cause him to remain. As a finan-
cier for Bedford Falls, George witnesses
the devastating effect of the Great Depre-
ssion upon middle America.

When he realizes that his dreams
have not come to fruition, George ex-
periences hopelessness similar to the
post-war period. In the character of the
cold, cruel businessman Mr. Potter
(Lionel Barrymore), Capra embodies the
alienation caused by capitalism and in-
dustry. While the world measures suc-
cess by wars won, power gained, and
money acquired, George opts for unap-
preciated charity, humanitarianism, and
self-denial.

It's a Wonderful Life works because
the audience indentifies with George's
plight. His yearning to make an impact
and be noticed strikes at a basic human
need. Capra does not explore just one
man’s life, but every individual's des-
ires, needs, and dreams.

Through the character of George
Bailey, Capra conveys his message con-

cerning the true nature of Christmas. /1's
a Wonderful Life inspires and warms the
heart because it celebrates the belief that
it’s more blessed to give than receive.
George's guardian angel amplifies in-
stances of giving that produced a harvest
of goodness, warmth, and righteousness.
Capra and his hero understand that
Christmas isn't about snowmen. rein-
deer, parties, elves. and mistletoe. Geo-
rge gives of himself expecung lithe in re-
turn. When George’s tireless giving fi-
nally receives attention and reward, one
understands the truth and beauty of giv-
ing, especially during Christmas. Capra
communicates that true love can be
found in George's sacrifice of his life for
others, and our unselfish gift giving at
Christmas.

I dare you not to cry at the moving
moments of reunion, reconciliation, and
renewal that George and the entire audi-
ence experience during /t's a Wonderful
Life. In crying out “Please God, I want to
live,” George Bailey expresses his desire
to embrace and celebrate his God-given
life to its fullest, most abundant extent
By relating to George's plea for mean-
ingful, significant life, one can laugh.
cry, marvel, delight, and rejoice with
what is a wonderful movic

NEED CASH? Earn $500 or more each
school year, 2-4 (flexible) hours per week
placing and
filling posters on campus.
Serious workers only; we give
reccomendations. Call now for
summer & next fall.
1-800-243-6679.

