Friday, April 20, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Admissions Committee
Decides Class Of ’88

By DAVID McGEE

The Admissions committee has ac-
cepted a total of 609 students for the class
of °88. Dean of Admissions and Finan-
cial Aid John Griffith expect to enroll a
freshman class of about 350 — 210 male
and 140 female.

A total of 1,750 students applied to
Davidson, compared to 1,801 last year.
Of the 595 accepted last year, 367 en-
rolled — 158 female and 209 male.

According to Griffith, 350 students is
the average for most classes; this year’s
freshman class. is slightly larger because
of the abnormally large senior class last
year.

Next year’s freshman class will also
reflect the 60 percent/40 percent Male to
female ratio set by the Trustees. The
Trustees set the male to female ratio at
60/40 for the entire student body, and
will allow the ratio to fluctuate for each
class to permit more flexibility in the ad-
missions process.

The median Scholastic Aptitude Test
scores for the accepted group is 650
(Math) and 600 (Verbal).

Due to projected decreases in the
number of students applying to colleges,
many schools have been offering stu-
dents scholarships based on merit. Grif-
fith is concerned that competition from
other schools may decrease Davidson's
yield ratio (the percentage of those ac-
cepted who attend) from the students it
has accepted for the class of *88.

The yield ratio here has usually fallen
between 50 and 59 percent. Griffith
equated the increased use of financial aid
based on merit across the country to

“buying students through scholarships.”

“It’s a no win situation. [Colleges]
end up spending millions more for the
students they have always had,” he said.

Holding the “financial carrot” puts
students in an awkward position, he said.
The financial aspects of the school are at
times emphasized more than the quality
of education it will provide. In some
schools, the increase in merit aid to re-
cruit more students is substantial, ac-
cording to Griffith.

“We're not sure how our yield will
hold up,” Griffith said. But, he said,
many highly qualified students are on the
waiting list. Griffith expects to take sev-
eral students off the waiting list.

The deadline for acceptants to enroll
at Davidson is May |.

By TOM SCHILLING

The date of the opening of David-
son’s new post office has not been an-
nounced yet, according to Postmaster
John Fisher ;

The post office plans to move from
its present location on Main St. to a
larger, new building about one
hundred yards away.

“The final inspection on the build-
ing comes next week. We notify offi-
cials in Charlotte and a date is set,”
said Fisher. “We have to set up files
and distribute new box numbers.”

Fisher was aware of complaints
about box numbers being changed. He
explained that the new building is
larger and has more boxes, requiring
more numbers. Some numbers in the

Post Office Opening Unsure

present post office will cease to exist.

Further, Fisher said, the post office
handles student mail somewhat diffe-
rently from normal town and business
mail. “You probably don’t need your
mail at} 8a.m.in the morning but
businessmen do,” he said. Also, most
students leave for the summer. The
new numbers are designed to try to
ease organization of town and college
mail.

Fisher was excited about the relo-
cation. There is more room and, he ex-
pects to do a better job.

He still anticipates a period of con-
fusion following the opening date. “It
will sure be weird closing up one day
in the old place and opening the next
day in the new one.”

Spring Convocation To Give Awards

By DAN VOORHIS

As the school year winds down and
another class prepares to graduate,
Spring Convocation celebrates the Col-
lege’s outstanding faculty and students.
The event will happen in Love Au-
ditorium next Friday at 11 a.m.

The ceremony involves the entire
college community, as the seniors and
faculty don robes and march to the strains
of classical music. Over 20 departmental
and general awards will be given out to
students for excellence in many areas:
music, German, Chemistry, Constitu-
tional law, economics, athletics, pre-
med and military science. Also, a faculty
member will receive the prestigious

Omicron Delta Kappa award for excel-
lence in teaching.

Also, honorary doctor of science de-
grees will be awarded to two distin-
guished medical doctors. The first, Dr.
Edmund Pellegrino, director of the Ken-
nedy Institute of Ethics and professor of
medicine and medical humanities at
Georgetown University, will address the
gathering. He will speak on “Medical
Ethics and the Liberal Arts.”

The other honoree is Dr. John
Graham, °38, a professor of pathology at
UNC-CH Medical School.

Convocation will feature two new
awards for students this year. The C.
Shaw Smith Award will be presented in

recognition of service to the College
community at the College Union. The
award was established by John Huie '78
to honor former Union director Smith.
Smith was director from 1952 until his
retirement last year.

The other prize given for the first
time will be the Philanthropic Society
Essay award. This is to be presented to
the winners of an essay contest split into
categories, under 1000 words in length
and 1000-2500 words in length. The con-
test was traditionally open only Phi Soct-
ety members, but from this year on the
entire campus was eligible too enter. The
winners should be picked by next Thurs-
day.

Blake, Murphy Receive Grants For F oreign Study

By DAVID VAN PELT

A $1,000 grant from a member of the
Dean Rusk Endowment advisory con-
mmittee will help juniors Chris Blake
and Greg Murphy pursue foréign study
projects in Mexico and India, respec-
tively.

Watson Fellow David Barnard °79
donated the one-time grant to Davidson’s
International Education committee this
year to be given to students planning
study programs abroad this summer. Six
students applied for the grant, according
to IEC chairman and economics Profes-
sor Clark Ross. Blake and Murphy’s pro-
posals were judged “pariticularly
meritorious,” Ross said. Blake and Mur-
phy will divide the grant.

Barnard donated the money with the
provision that the students not be seniors,
according to Ross. The reason for this,
he said, is that “we want the student to
come back to Davidson and disseminate
some experiences of the summer.”
Though Barnard’s grant is not formally
affiliated with the Rusk Endowment,
Ross said, “It’s also the type of thing we
envision will accur within the Dean Rusk
endowment.” .

Blake

Chris Blake will spend the summer in

Mexico City, studying political economy

“9
o
1S)
0
=
©
Ss
a5
Ss

Chris Blake

at the CIDE institute there. He will work
under Dr. Leon Bendesky, Fullbright
Scholar at Davidson fall and winter
terms. “I’m not going to be enrolled ina
given university program,” Blake said.
“It’s going to be basically an individual
project.” He will have an office in the in-
stitute, and hopes to associate with a
number of scholars and government offi-
cials. He plans to live with a local family,
but, he said, “I don’t know exactly which
one yet.”

A political science major, Blake is
particularly fascinated with the political
and economic condition of Mexican

peasants, and plans to travel a great deal: -

on his ewn in the late summer, examin-

ing that problem first hand. “In part |
went to study how peasants articulate and
realize, or don’t, their poitical de-
mands,” he said. “The grant enables me
to do some more travelling than I had
originally planned to do.” Blake’s senior
thesis will concern Mexican politics,
which “in all probability at this point”
will involve the peasant situation.
Murphy

“T’ve been given a lot in life, and I
think it’s time I gave something back,”
said Greg Murphy, explaining his plans
to spend the summer treating leprosy vic-
tims in a hospital in Dhanbad, outside
Calcutta. Murphy will be involved in
several projects in conjunction with a
Jesuit mission in India.

Aside from assisting in treatment and
surgery of leprosy victims in the Dhan-
bad hospital, Murphy will also work
wilth a paramedics unit which diagnoses
and treats villagers in, the countryside,
and tutor the children of leprosy victims
at the De Brito House near Calcutta.

Murphy will also have the opportu-
nity to work with Mother Theresa in her
poverty mission in Calcutta “whenever I
can get in there, whenever she needs
people.” He will live in-the -hospital,

- where English is spoken, but most villa-

gers speak only Hindi. “I'll pick up as

~ countries.

Greg Murphy
much [of the language] as I can over

there,” he said.

He is eager to share his lessons in
India with his fellow students. “Hope-
fully I can bring back and relate to people
what the other culture is like,” he said.
He plans to keep a daily journal this sum-
mer and hold a forum next year.

Murphy admits conditions won't be
the best. Temperatures will be in the 120
degree range, “and that’s before the
monsoons.” Nevertheless, he looks for-
ward to the summer. “I'm a pre-med
major, and I think this will be a good test-
ing ground,” he said. “I kind of wish
more students would take advantage of
all the’ opportunities in lesser developed

”
