' 2. Friday, September 28, 1984/The Davidsonian

Dance Theatre To Perform In Love Auditorium

The Contemporary Dance Theatre will perform at 8:15 pm next Thursday in
Love Auditorium. Tickets are $1 for students and faculty and $3 for general ad-
mission. The Contemporary Dance Theatre is a non-profit orgnization founded
by Nanette Bearden. The company’s style is contemporary, blending classical
ballet technique with modern, jazz, and ethnic dance forms. A reception after-
wards will be held at the BSC House.

SGA Dorm Senator Election Results:
CANNON: Laura Raney
SENTELLE: Jay Gaither
DUKE: Tim Norville
OFF-CAMPUS: Anne Miano
Jim Kinsey
Mary Griffin
BELK: Anil Sool
Dave Handy
Buddy Martin
LITTLE: David White '
WATTS: Louis Zbinden
KNOX: Rachael Henning
IRWIN: (Runoff necessary)
FRESHMEN: Jody Hart, Pres.
Ken Mobley
Betsy Rothschild
NEW DORUM: Alex Maultsby

Mandolin Concert By Prodigy Srivinas

This Wednesday, Davidson will present a mandolin concert by 13-year-old
prodigy Scrivinas.

Known as ‘Mandolin Scrivinas,’ he has performed widely in India,
Malaysia, and Australia, as well as at the 1983 International Jazzfest in Berlin,
where Scrivinas earned the praise of festival Director George Gruntz and noted
musicians. Scrivinas began his musical education at the age of 6 and gave his
first concert when he was 10.

Scrivinas will perform ragas, south Indian classical music. “Indian ragas are
not written down,” according to history Professor Job Thomas. “They are im-

Graduate Study in

Public Policy

The LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of
Texas at Austin emphasizes public policy analysis, inter-
disciplinary research and summer internships in govern-
ment agencies in its graduate programs:

— Master’s Degree in Public Affairs

— Joint Degrees Program with the UT Law School

— Joint Degrees Program with the UT College of En-
gineering

— Joint Degrees Program with the UT Graduate School
of Business

Financial aid and fellowships are available based on merit
or need.

MEET WITH A REPRESENTATIVE AT:

Davidson College
Career Placement Office
Wednesday, Oct. 3, 1984

Please call for appointment

NEws SUMMARY

sciple over a long time. As the disciples absorb and

arted from a master to his di pies
; on ways, the renderings may be infinitely subtle

deliver them in their own distinct

in variations.” ~ _
Accompanying Scrivinas will be Parthasarthy on violin and Raja Rao on per-

cussion. Vatsala Rajagopalan will introduce the different ragas. a
The one-hour concert will start at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. Admission is

free.

Living Endowment Kicks Off Fund-Raising Drive

The Living Endowment held “‘a concentrated 15 to 18 hour conference” last
weekend to inaugurate the fall fund-raising drive, according to Endowment Di-
rector Lee Willingham. Volunteers from the Living Endowment, the Wildcat
Club, and WDAV met to analyze Davidson's financial needs and discuss the
best ways to solicit alumni for funds.

The leadership conference began with a dinner last Friday night at which
President John Kuykendall spoke. Instruction sessions for each group took place
on Saturday morning, and the conference concluded at noon. Approximately
150 volunteers attended the conference, he said.

According to Willingham, the College receives over half of its contributions
during the last three months of the year. Half of this, he said, comes between
Christmas and New Years.

The three fund-raising organizations approach different groups, Willingham
said. The Living Endowment operates through volunteer chairmen from David-
son graduating classes, who solicit members of their class. The Wildcat Club
concentrates on alumni chapters throughout the country. WDAV directs its
fund-raising activity primarily to its yearly radiothon, to be held Nov. 4 through

ll.

“Most of the soliciting is done by mail,” Willingham said. The Living En-
dowment student phone-a-thon in late November targets alumni who have yet to
contribute.

Aside from alumni, the fund-raising drive also solicits from churches, cor-
porations, foundations and non-alumni parents. According to Willingham, pro-
ceeds from the drive are not earmarked for particular projects, as are many larger
corporate and foundation grants. Instead the revenue is used for the College’s
yearly operating budget.

WELCOME

BACK

STUDENTS!

In appreciation for doing business with
us we would like to offer to all David-
son students:

— 30% Discount on Men’s and Ladies’
Hair Styles
— 25% Discount for Any Permanent

Good through month of October.

GARY BAILEY
BARBER STYLIST / OWNER

Che
COnsure

ROFFLER CREATIVE HAIRSTYLING

HIGHWAY 115
NORTH MAIN STREET
CORNELIUS, N.C. 26031

