8 Friday, March 23, 1984/The Davidsonian

The Rise And Fall Of Publications At Davidson

Editor's note: This is the first article in a periodic series
called “Remembering Davidson.” The series will in-
clude articles by professors, students and alumni, as
well as old Davidsonian articles, pertaining to the

Davidson of yesterday.
By Dr. CHALMERS G. DAVIDSON

Special to The Davidsonian
As far as the students were concerned, they began

printing things the first year the college opened. The
literary societies, Eumenean and Philanthropic, were the
sponsors of the first college publication, an address deli
vered before them by Mr. John Beard of Salisbury in
1837. This is a quaint little pamphlet, printed in Salis
bury, of which only one copy is
Remembering now known to be extant. From that
Davidson date throughout the ante-bellum
period and for several decades af-
ter the Civil War the Societies continued to call promi-
nent men to address them at commencement, and these
addresses were almost invariably printed for distribution
among the students. Davidson did not publish a literary
and historical magazine before the Civil War, although
this was not an uncommon practice among institutions of
higher learning at that time. However, any campus or-
ganization or group of students apparently felt free to
print a pamphlet whenever an occasion appeared to them

to warrant it. The Sons of Temperance published addres-
ses that appealed to it, and even unorganized groups of
students would request a copy of a sermon delivered in
chapel that struck a sympathetic chord and would send it
off to the printer in Charlotte or Salisbury.

Unfortunately, not all that the students saw fit to
print was so obviously concerned with moral uplift. In
1859 the Sophomore Class published what was known
as a “Rake.” This was a satire on the members of the
Freshman and Junior classes and was entitled The
Freshmen and Junior's Mirror. The outstanding indi-
viduals of these two classes were selected for merciless
ridicule and criticsim (or, better, ‘‘abuse’”) ostensibly
“for their own good.” For example, one Davidson gent-
leman was advised to wash his feet and another was ad-
monished to stop picking his nose in public. The barbs
were so personal and keen that a wholesale “duel” al-
most took place and guns and knives were beginning to
flash.

The Trustees met in an extraordinary session and ob-
tained apologies from the Sophomores. While on their
mission of reform, the second-year men had also taken
advantage of the opportunity to let the faculty know what
they thought of them. ,

One section of the Rake was entitled “Laws and Reg-
ulations of the College” and among these were the fol-

Kuram Troupe Provides Opportunity
For Dancers To Pursue Their Art

By ALLISON WILLS

Closet dancers will now have a chance to express
themselves for the first time at Davidson through the re-
cently established Davidson Dance Troupe. Its founder,
sophomore Paulette Kurani, had been dancing for four-
teen years. When she came to Davidson, however, she
found no opportunity to contiue the art she loves so
much.

‘Though the PE department offers dance lessons for
credit, there has never been an opportunity for dancers to
get together and perform,” Kurani said. “I decided to
start a group like one I used to be in to keep up the danc-
ing, to have fun, and to choreograph.”

The group which consists of 16 dancers — eight men
and eight women — ranges from beginners to very ex-
perienced dancers like Kurani and sophomore Trish
Lennon. It is open to many styles of dance choreog-
raphed to all kinds of music — from classical to rock and
roll.

Freshman Howie Moyes was hesitant to join at first
because he was afraid the group would be comprised sol-
ely of women, but he said, “not being the only [male]
now, I don’t feel uncomfortable at all. I wasn’t surprised
that Davidson had never offered a group like this before,
but after I joined I wondered why someone hadn’t started
it before,” he said. “I guess it just took someone with the
initiative,” he added.

Moyes had taken one year of dance in high school for
a PE credit, but other dancers in the troupe have had up
to 15 years of formal training. Kurani discovered many
experienced dancers whose talents were going unnoticed
at Davidson. “Some of the dancers in the group were in
dance companies and had the chance to have careers in
dance,” Kurani said. “They had to decide between dance
and academics. By coming here they obviously chose

"academics and gave up the opportunity of becoming pro-
fessional dancers. It’s sad that they had to neglect their
dancing completely.”

The Davidson Dance Troup meets informally from 3
to 5 on Friday afternoons at the raquetball courts to
dance and choreograph. “Because some of the dancers
have had years of training and some have had no formal
dance training, we will work at different levels to each

“Paulette Korani practices a dance movement.

person’s potential,” Kurani said. “It’s really just for fun.
Everyone is encouraged to come if they have a love for
dancing.”

The group is scheduled to perform for Spring Frolics
as part of the Saturday afternoon Union activities and for
the talent show. Eventually Kurani hopes the troupe will
have its own production and will perform at community
events. “So far the response has been great. I was really
surprised to see that so many people share my interest in
dance” adding that she was especially pleased to see so
many men express interest. Kurani has also received en-
couragement from Sue Ross and Will Terry, and the
Union Board has expressed interest in helping to finance
productions.

lowing:

At his inauguaration, the President of the College shall look
knowing and each professor shall pretend that he knows twice
as much as he really does.

It shall be the duty of the professors generally, and of the Pro-
fessor of Chemistry in particular, to attend prayers twice dur-
ing each year — at the February examinations, and at Com-
mencement, and also to attend at other times when any of the
Trustees are about the College.

The President and professor may, at their discretion, tell the
students that any law, which suits a particular emergency, is
recorded in their private code (a document which no student
has ever seen).

The period of the Civil War put an end to all literary
activity. Davidson was probably the only men’s college
in the South which did not close her doors during the
conflict and reconstruction. It was also one of the first to
regain her pre-war vigor. The South was defeated, but
Davidson was not reconstructed. The first publication
from the college after the war was a Compendium of
Logic for the Use of the Sophomore Class published by
the Class of 1870. The logic included is definitely that of
the pre-war period. It would serve no good purpose to re-
print any of it here as the student mind of today is of con-
trary convictions.

By taking collective responsibility for the publica-
tion, the Class of 1870 probably avoided punishment
from the carpet-bag government. There is no author
listed on the title page, though it is believed that the pro-
fessor of logic, John Munroe Anderson, did most of the
writing.

In the same year the two literary societies began the
publication of the Davidson Monthly which the title page
states was to be devoted to “science, literature and art.”
It was in every way a credit to the college, but survived
for only two years. For the next fourteen years the stu-
dents had no medium for literary expression. Occasional
pamphlets appeared, but not with the regularity of the
ante-bellum period. In 1886 the literary societies revived
the Davidson Monthly and it continued, with a change of
title to The Davidson College Magazine, for forty years.

In 1925, owing largely to a story by a later prominent

Presbyterian minister which failed to meet the approval
of the faculty sensors, The Davidson College Monthly
came to a sudden demise. The literatti of the student
body at that time was compsed of as brilliant a group of
aspirant writers as Davidson ever had. They were unwil-
ling to let the magazine die and by placing it under the
sponsorship of Sigma Upsilon, the literary fraterniy,
they put out an issue in the spring of 1926. In order to
convince the faculty that they had completely changed
complexion from the recent slightly off-color magazine,
the new one was christened The Chameleon.
It was beautiful in format and very much alive in con-
tent. Probably the most original and creative writing that
the students of Davidson have ever produced is con-
tained in the three volumes of The Chameleon. Such sci-
ntillation was too bright to last and burnt itself out by
1930. The variegated lizard apparently swallowed him-
self and disappeared.

During the 1920’s, the same period in which the
Magazine. was under suspicion, the members of the
Junior Class had been publishing a joke periodical each
year, partly to work off excess humor and partly to have
something to show the girls who came in for Junior
Speaking, at that time the principal social event of the
year. The humor periodical appeared under various titles
as Cap and Bells and Sanity Rare.. It was succeeded in
1930 by a more permament humor magazine called The
Yowl, which lasted for six years and occasionally, under
editors like Vereen Bell, admitted a little creative writ-
ing between the jokes. :

A definite change for the better came when The Yow!
with its outlandish title was replaced by Scripts 'n
Pranks. Its raison d'etre as explained by its first editor,
Hal Overton, was to combine in one magazine both liter-
ature (Scripts) and humor (Pranks) and as such it con-
tinued successfully down to the interruption of the sec-
ond World War.
