Friday, October 19, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Misalliance Embodies Parent-Child Relationships

By SAMUEL SCOTT

Each fall and spring term, the Theater Department -

presents a dramatic production. This fall, the undertak-
ing is on the lighter side, as the department produces
Misalliance, a comedy by George Bernard Shaw.
The play is subtitled “a debate in one sitting,” and
through this debate, it takes a comic look at the universal
theme of child-parent relationships. The setting is in the
home of an upper-middle class English family around
the year 1910. Two aristocratic families, the Tarletons
and the Summerhays, are at first discussing mundane,
everyday matters. Suddenly, they find themselves
drawn into a witty and at times heated argument in

which they reveal more about themselves than they
wish.

Three characters outside the families unexpectedly
“drop in,” stimulating the argument as well as adding a
few surprises of their own.

Theatre Professor Rupert Barber is directing the play.
“Shaw presents some very stimulating ideas. I think it’s

Jennifer Poole portrays a berated

woman daredevil”

very appropriate that we present the play on parents
weekend, as it deals with parents relationships with their
grown children,” he said.

Barber cast the play during auditions in September.
Tarleton, benefactor of the Tarleton family and well-
read founder of Tarleton Underwear Company is por-
trayed by senior John Marks. His feisty daughter

Brilhant Acting

By ANNE LAMBERT

Genius 1s not a word to be used lightly, especially at
Davidson, but when the real thing comes along, we
ought to be able to distinguish it. Pieces of Eight, a col-
lection of dramatic pieces performed by the Acting
Company in Love Auditorium on Wednesday night, was
theatre directing genius at its best, combining variety,
spontaneity, and creativity into eight solid-gold pieces
of pure theater.

Director Alan Schneider's staging of the original
production of Edward Albee’s Who's Afraid of Virginia
Woolf? in 1962 brought him to prominence in the theatri-
cal realm, and he remained a major force in theater for
the next twenty years with his innovative productions of
Pinter, Brecht and Beckett, until his death last spring.

The story goes that Schneider was walking down a
street in San Antonio, Texas, lamenting Edward Albee’s
“The Sandbox” as a wonderful play that was too often ig-
nored because of its short length which made it difficult
to stage. Across the street, in a pawnshop window.
Schneider noticed a display of Spanish gold dubloons,
and the idea for Pieces of Eight, a presentation of eight
short theatrical “gems” combined into an evening of
drama, was born.

The eight works, by authors as renowned and varied
as Edward Albee, Tom Stopard, Samuel Beckett and
Eugene lonesco, are sewn together by acommon theme
of relationships — “essentially what life is all about,”
says company member Libby Colahan. The pieces are

Peggy Pierotti

Hypatia (sophomore Noel Brewster), arrogant son
Johnny (senior John Syme), and gentle wife ( senior Val-
erie Hinton) complete the Tarleton family. Lord Sum-
merhays (senior Dan Lindsey) is a former British Colo-
nial Governor and Bentley (sophomore Howie Moyes)
his son, a weak, childish intellect who is preparing to
wed Hypatia. Bentley's college friend (freshman Lance
Luckey), a liberated woman daredevil (junior Jennifer
Poole), a mystery gunman (freshman Dan Michaelis)
and a maid (junior Allison McGill) round out the cast.
Theatre Professor Joe Gardner is technical director
and in charge of stage design. Aside from the guidence
of Barber and Gardner, the production is almost entirely
student-run. Theater students gain hands-on experience
in every aspect of the play, from box office and publicity

Makes Pieces O

consistent only in their excellence of quality, as the ac-
tors run the gamut from the realistic to the absurd, the
elegant to the bizzare, the morose to the hilarious,
changing pace, makeup, costume and style to fit the
mood and message of the play.

Some of the pieces are more accessible than others.
The second work, Harold Pinter’s “Fhe Black and
White” finds two wistful bag ladies slurping soup and
chomping bread while they gaze mournfully at the buses
which are going places they are not. The conversatoin
and situation, ever Pinter-esque, are exasperatingly
vague, and the scene is salvaged only by the visually fas-
cinating characterizations of Laura Brutsman and Libby
Colahan. Brutsman’s round moon-face smacks and
scrunches to create unusual facial expression which syn-
thesize youth and age. She ts a particularly compelling
and sympathetic Grandma in the third work, Albee’s
“The Sandbox.”

The stunning visual elegance of Beckett's “Come
and Go,” which begins the second half, is, as in “The
Black and White,” the sustaining element of the work.
More ballet than drama, it is a dreamy protrayal of three
women (Colahan, Brutsman, and Julie Fishell), former
schoolmates who meet after a long separation. Lan-
guishing movements, deliberately labored speech pat-
terns, and striking top lighting which keeps the women’s
faces in shadow all serve to give the piece an impre-
ssionistic feel — as in art, specific details may not be
completely understood but the audience is struck by the

John Marks stands to face Dan Michaelis during a Misalliance re hearsal.

Peggy Pierotti

to lighting and scene construction,

7

Misalliance opens with a special student pre-
sentation on at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. Tickets for
students will be $2 for this show only. At 4:30 on
Friday, a matinee will be presented along with an
8 p.m. show. A first time dinner theater will be
held at 6:30 pm on Saturday. Tickets are $10.00 for
the dinner theater. The play will be presented at 8
p.m. on Nov. 2 and 3 in Hodson Hall. Tickets are $3
for students and senior citizens, $5 general admis-
sion. For reservations, call 892-1696.

Fight Complete

overall visual effect.

The bizzare conversation shared by the three fishing
buddies in Ring Lardner’s “The Tridget of Greva™ ts so
nutty it can't help but be hilarious. (‘LT was born out of
wedlock, ” says one wacky philosopher, “Mighty pretty
country out there,” agrees the other.) The pace of “The
Tridget” becomes tedious at times, but the New England
inflections and mannerisms of Albert Farrar, David
Manis, and Philip Goodwin are, though slow, neverthe:
less wickedly funny.

Pieces closes both halves of the show with what are
undoubtedly its strongest works. Tom Stoppard’s “The
Dogg's Troupe Hamlet” is possibly the most hilarious
fifteen minutes I've ever seen on stage. And Robert An
derson's affectionate “Em Herbert” is a silly, touching
play. not about people growing old together, but about
people growing in together. Goodwin and Calahan are
so precisely attuned to each other as actors that as char
acters they are utterly believable.

The directing genius of Alan Schneider ts evident in
all cightpieces. He minimizes the difficulties of content
in certain pieces by accentuating those particular works
visually, as he does. for example. with his Monty
Python staging of lonesco’s “Foresome.” The frenzied
foursome tell us that “characters ina play don't have to
be bigger fools than in real life.” but, they promise.
“we're doing our best.” Alan Schneider didn't have to
present an evening of theatrical excellence and varity but
as Pieces of Eight demonstrates. he did his best
