THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, May 11, 1984

Volume LXXIll, Number 24

Women’s Tennis Takes
National Championship

By PATRICIA HAHN

Yes, there really is a Kalamazoo, and
yes, the Davidson Women’s Tennis
Team really is the Division II] National
Champion. The lady racketeers earned
15 points in the team competition this
past Tuesday to take the national title. It
was their first appearance ever in a na-
tional tournament.

The tournament was truly tension-
packed; Davidson and Occidental Col-
lege were tied after Monday's competi-
tion. The final outcome read, Davidson
15 points, University of California at San
Diego 14 points, and Occidental College
13 points.

Davidson was carried by the victories
of Adelyn Lutz at number 3, Lolly
Johnson at number 4, and rookie Debbie

Podolin at number 6 in the finals. Also,
winning their flight at number 2 doubles
were Tricia Ives and Johnson. Unknown
to them as they exited their court, this
doubles match was the clincher for the
national trophy. While some of the
players have already returned, number |
Caroline Barclay and number 2 Eleanor
Knobloch will remain in Michigan to
compete in the individual singles and
doubles tournaments."

Coach Caroline Brown — in her sec-
ond year as the Wildcat’s coach — was
last seen on cloud nine ecstatic with the
win and with the fact that all members of
the team contributed points to the
scoreboard.

Caroline Barclay and Eleanor Knob-

(Continued on page 4)

\

Dr. Helen Caldicott visits with students at a reception after her
speech Monday night. See story on page 4.

Trustees Okay New Dorm, Discuss Race Problems

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Board of Trustees last Friday ap-
proved construction of a new dormitory
to be located next to Knox and Irwin
‘dorms in order to aleviate housing shor-
tage problems on campus.

No date was set for construction to
begin. According to Director of the
Physical Plant Grover Meetze, the basic
plan of the new dorm will be similar to
Irwin and Knox dorms, but changes will
be made according to how residents of
those dorms feel about the facilities.

“We want to talk to students to find
out what features they like and don’t like
about them [Irwin and Knox],”” Meetze
said. He mentioned storage as one aspect
of Knox and Irwin which will be im-
proved in the.new dorm. “We'll improve
areas we’ ve had problems with,” Meetze
said. “I understood those are satisfactory

dorms.” .

Funding for the new dorm has not
been finalized. Meetze would not esti-
mate how much it will cost, but said due
to inflation it will cost more than Knox
and Irwin, which cost $500,000 each
when built in the 1980-81 school year.

Meetze said it is “too early at this
juncture” to estimate when the new dorm
will be built. Student opinion on Irwin
and Knox has to be gathered, he said,
cost estimates have to be made, and an
exact location next to Irwin and Knox has
to be established. “The general feeling at
the meeting was that we would look into
the dormitory situation as quickly as pos-
sible,” Meetze said.

Project ’87 Discussed

The Trustee Student Life Committee
considered the racial situation on campus
during its Thursday meeting, and it was

Campaigner

By DAVID VAN PELT
A representative of North Carolina
Senator Jesse Helm’s campaign who dis-
tributed pamplets in Chambers _ last

~Wednesday met an unpleasant welcome

from Davidson students and faculty, and
left campus after a group of students re-
quested that he move to the Union.

“He said of all the campuses he has
visited in the state of North Carolina this
year, this was by far the rudest accep-
tance he has gotten from students, facul-
ty, and administration,” said junior Tony
Holt, President of the Young Republi-
cans on campus.

Helms supporter Allan Williams was
at Davidson from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
distributing campaign literature and can-
vassing for Helms, but according to

_Holt, most discussion between Williams

brought before the full Board meeting
Friday. “I brought it (the race situation
here) to the attention of the Student Life
Committee, and the discussion came in
the context of their report,” said Dean of
Students Will Terry. One subject men-
tioned was Project 87, a group of re-
quests made by the Black Student Coali-
tion to increase the number of black stu-
dents and professors at Davidson, estab-
lish a black Dean of Students, and offer a
black studies program.

Referring to the racial concerns here,
Hunter Monroe, who attended the full
Board meeting, said, ‘“They talked about
it more than anything else in the open
session.” According to SGA President
John Laughlin, “Everybody seemed to
realize that the situation here needs to be
improved. What I could get out of the
meeting was that we would begin to ad-

dress this issue with the new president.”

President of the Board of Trustees
Fred Stair has made arrangements to
meet with representatives of the Black
Alumni Association to discuss the matter
further. According to Monroe, “one trus-
tee said that these aren't the kind of prob-
lems which can be solved with a lick and
a promise.”

Faculty Promotions and Tenure

During an Executive Board meeting
on Friday, the Trustees approved faculty
promotions for next year. Promoted to
Professor were Associate Professors
Rupert 'T.‘Bartser (Théater and Speech),
Dirk French (Classical Studies), Jerry A.

Roberts. (Mathematics), and A. Allen

Wolf (Physics). Promoted to Associate
Professor were Assistant Professors
Verna M. Case (Biology), Joseph T.

(continued on page 4)

Receivés Icy Welcome

and Davidson students was invective.
“Conversation oftentimes backed up and
became mudslinging,” Holt said. “One
College official said she couldn’ believe
that an educated college student would
accept Jesse Helms,” said junior Walker
Douglas, a member of the Young Repub-
licans who sat with Williams for an hour.

Assosciate Dean of Students Sue
Ross at one point told Williams that he
had to have a student with him at the
table. Dean of Students Will Terry said
that he objected to the Helms representa-
tive because he set up a booth in Cham-
bers without a student present. Terry said
that only campus organizations were or-
dinarily allowed to set up a display in
Chambers.

Soon after Williams set up a table in
Chambers, Terry called Holt, who said

that he had already planned to join the re-
pesentative. Holt stayed with Williams
for about two hours. Douglas replaced
Holt for an hour.

According to Holt, the Helms repre-
sentative called him in-advance to re-
quest assistance in distributing pam-
phlets at Davidson. “This wasn't a plan
to compete with Helen Caldicott. It was
arranged before that,” Holt said. “The
fellow contacted us. We said we would
help him.”

Junior Melissa Alves, one of several
students who requested that Williams
leave Chambers, said she tried to discuss
political issues with him earlier. “He ig-
nored me. He wouldn't talk. That upset
me a lot.” Alves said after discussing the
issue with several classmates. a group of

ccontinued on page 4)
