THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 8

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, November 2, 1984

a pass during Saturday’s game. The Cats defeated Wofford, claiming
their first win of the season. See story, page 7.

Symposium To Explore
Technology In Medicine

By DAVID VAN PELT

Davidson’s “New Liberal Arts Pro-
gram” will examine a remarkable break-
through in medical technology in a sym-
posium next Thursday in the Chambers
Gallery.

The symposium, entitled “Bioen-
gineering and Health Technologies: The
Physics, Clinical Applications,
Economics and Bioethics of Magnetic
Resonance Imaging,” will focus on Mag-
netic Resonance Imaging, a process

which takes clearer and more accurate
pictures of human tissue than was ever
possible using X-rays, according to sym-
posium director, psychology Professor
John Brockway.

The symposium will commence,
after introductory remarks by Brockway,
with a lecture at 3:15 p.m. by Professor
Leo J. Neuringer of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. He will explain
scientifically the Magnetic Resonance

(continued on page 4)

Campus Police Charge
Two Men In Burglaries

By ROSS HOLT

Sophomore Jane Campbell awoke
early yesterday morning to the
realizaiton that two strangers had entered
her Knox dormitory room, and had
closed the door behind them.

After one of the strangers left,
Campbell and her roommate, sophomore
Michele Miller, confronted the other.
He, too, eventually left, and Campbell
called campus security.

Police later arrested and charged two
black males with two counts of first de-
gree burglary and one count of larceny.
Joseph Tyrone Wardlow and Emerson
Darnell Blackwell, both of Mooresville,
are being held in the Mecklenburg
County jail under $5,000 bond.

The burglary charges allege that
Blackwell and Wardlow entered the
rooms of Campbell and Miller and of
sophomore Lucinda Kellam. The larceny

charge alleges that one of the two took
two gold chains and a gold watch belong-
_ing to Kellam.

Police arrested Wardlow and
Blackwell at 2 a.m. after receiving
Campbell's call. Wardlow was still on
first Knox talking to dorm residents
when police arrived, according to
Campbell. Blackwell returned while
police were present, she added.

Campbell said two men alleged to be
Blackwell and Wardlow had entered her
room when she awoke. She said she
watched as Blackwell left, closing the
door behind him. Wardlow wandered
around the center of the room, she said.
When he neared the bottom of the loft
ladder, Campbell said, she asked if there
was anything she could do to help him.

Miller then awoke, Campbell said.
The intruder began talking incoherently

(continued on page 4)

Students Nominated

By DAVID McGEE

Davidson has nominated four seniors
to compete for Thomas J. Watson fel-
lowships, which provide grants of
$10,000 for a year of independent study
and travel abroad.

Seventeen students here applied for
the nomination. Usually the Watson
Foundation chooses two of Davidson's
nominees, but has in the past awarded
fellowships to three or all of Davidson's
nominees.

Seniors Sally Howell, Ginna McGee,
Laura McDonald, and Beth Maczka will
submit fellowship proposals and partici-
pate in interviews with a Watson founda-
tion representative next term.

The Watson Foundation sums up its

- For Watson Fellowships

goal as a means “to provide fellows an
opportunity for a focused and disciplined
Wanderjahr of their own devising — a
break in which they might explore with
thoroughness a particular interest, test
their aspirations and abilities, view their
lives and American society in greater
perspective, and, concomitantly, devel-
op a more informed sense of interna-
tional concern.”
Laura McDonald

McDonald's proposal would take her
to Vienna, Austria to study piano litera-
ture and composition written there dur-
ing the 18th and 19th centuries. Mozart,
Haydn, Beethoven, Schubert, and
Brahms lived and composed in Vienna

(continued on page 3)

The Honor Code: Perceptions Across Campus

By DAVID VAN PELT
The Honor Code is one of Davidson College's most
Vital and hallowed institutions. As such, it is obeyed, re-
spected, and often, taken for granted. If it accomplished
anything, the recent open Honor Council hearing pro-
; vided the opportunity for
A students and faculty to

see a system in action
News which has come to define
Analysis

their Davdison experi-
ence to a great extent.

Many here consider the Honor Code an aspect of
Davidson life which separates it from other schools.
“It’s part of what students here talk to students at other
colleges about,” English Professor Tony Abbott said.

Respect For ‘Honor’ Varies

First-year religion Professor W. Trent Foley com-
pared Davdison’s Honor Code to the one at Kalamazoo
College in Michigan, which he attended in the 1970s.
The honor code there was in many ways a formality,
whereas at Davdison it appears to be “much more a cen-
ter of community life,” he said.

“It’s good that people take it seriously here.” How-
ever, deference to the Honor Code seems to surround the
Code with an aura of “‘sacrality ,” he said. “To question it
as it stands seems to me to be an act of sacrilege.”

Coordinator of International Education Homer Sut-
ton contrasted Davidson with the University at Montpel-
lier in France, where, he said, “students cheat as much as
they can get away with.” If caught, they receive a minor
punishment. Though Davidson JYA students could
cheat with the prospect of little disciplinary action, he
said, “they aren't in that frame of mind.”

Confusion With Procedure

The area of greatest confusion for Davidson con-
cerning the Honor Code appears in the Code’s discipli-
nary proceedings. “I'm kind of ill-informed with that re-
spect, as far as violations are concerned,” junior Jerry
Lilly said.

Sophomore Mark Gosnell noted, “I think that it (the
Honor Code] does a good job of keeping people from
cheating, of producing people who are honest. I’m not
sure how well the investigation and trial . . . work.”

According to Honor Council Chairperson Nancy

Rosselot, “A lot of people who understand the value of
the Honor Code don’t understand the procedure that the
Honor Council follows.” Describing reaction to the open
hearing several weeks ago, she said, ‘People assumed it
would be like a court of law.’ According to Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry, “Due process and doing it on a legal
model are in my judgment two different things.”

According to Terry, the man who designed the
Honor Code was Dean of a law school and a federal
judge, and “knew what he was doing.” The procedure
the Council follows is especially designed for amateurs.
Terry added, “It is very important that it be always bas1-
cally a students’ system.”

Open Hearings

Among those who see a need to modify Honor Coun-
cil proceedings is philosophy Professor Lance Stell, who
described the need for Honor Council to publish its deci-
sions in a Davidsonian opinions article last spring. “To
enjoy support . . . the system must be fair and, what ts
equally important from a practical point of view, it must
be perceived as fair,” he wrote.

(continued on page 3)
