10 Friday, October 12, 1984/The Davidsonian

RTS & ENTERTAINMENT

A scene from “Pieces of Eiaht.” the first per formance this Wednesdav of the Artist Series ‘84

The Acting Company, To Start |

Series With “Pieces Of

By JOHN GATHINGS

Do come to “Pieces of Eight,” the premiere perfor-
mance of the 1984-85 Artists Series. Do not expect to
leave with your intellect unscathed.

The Acting Company, a group formed by John
Houseman, will present eight one-act plays which criti-
cise society’s flaws and examine the way in which
people overcome them. The play’s authors do this sub-
tly, using metaphors, allusions, and elements of
naturalism.

If you saw The Dumb Waiter in the workshop plays
last year, you have a foretaste of Pinter’s The Black and
White. The pace of Pinter’s plays parallels real time
through close imitation of the patterns and silences of
speech. This technique realizes Pinter's goal of leaving
interpretation of what transpires up to the audience: a
somewhat tricky endeavor.

The other plays require the audience’s thoughtful at-
tention for their meanings to arise. In Samuel Beckett's
Come and Go, viewers can not interpret the action liter-
ally in order to understand the play’s complete message.
Beckett presents images in his play which serve as
metaphors for the play’s message. He gives the charac-
ters little background, thus enabling the audience to per-
ceive them more as images rather than personalities. His

Fight’

plays fall into the style of ‘‘the theater of the absurd.”

The other plays present their themes through similar
subtle methods. This subtlty of method links them as
does their emphasis on social commentary. The Acting
Company purposefully presents them in an order that re-
lates their themes. Stay on your toes and watch for their
relationship to each other.

The Acting Company is on its toes. The group’s
members hail from Juilliard and other highly respected
schools of acting. For 12 years the ‘group has toured the
country presenting classical as well as contemporary
drama.

The group is “the touring arm” of the John F. Ken-
nedy Center. It is the only theatre company in America
which concentrates solely on the development of Ameri-
can actors. The company’s former members have gone
on to successful Broadway and television careers, and
the company has won several prestigious awards for its
productions.

If you want to experience thought-provoking, well-
produced drama, this is a don’t-miss opportunity. The
production will be presented Wednesday night in Love
Auditorium; tickets cost $6. Tickets and information are
available through the Union, 892-2000, ext. 174.

Debate Designed To Be Fun

Teams Will Mix Humor With Facts

By ROSS HOLT

Does America deserve Ronald Reagan?

The Davidson debating team does not think so, and
will attempt to prove it Tuesday night as it faces off
against Washington and Lee’s team.

The field of battle lies in the Union's Morrison room.
During the debate, partisans of any stripe can voice their
opinions from the audience — a rowdy audience, hopes
speech Professor Jean Cornell, debate team coach.

“We want them to cheer and yell,” Cornell said, “in
the spirit of the thing.”

The debate will not be serious, competition-style ar-
gument, she said. Instead, the teams will mix humor and
satire with facts and statistics.

Sophomore Joel Johnson, as first negative speaker,
will lead the team into the debate. Johnson said David-
son will argue that Reagan is an undesireable leader, so
America does not deserve him.

To prove this, Johnson said, the team will use
Reagan's policies, statements, contradictions, and “the
times he’s put his foot in his mouth.” Mainly, Johnson
said, the team will use “what he’s said and done.”

Freshmen Keith Finch and Mark Chen will follow
Johnson in the debate. Finch will present the second
negative argument, and Chen will present a rebuttle to
Washington and Lee’s arguments.

After two affirmative and two negative speakers,

Cornell said, Washington and Lee professor Halford
Ryan, the moderator, will open the floor to comments
and questions from the audience. Then, the debaters will
make closing statements in rebuttal speeches.

In preparing for the debate, Johnson, Finch, and
Chen have practiced debating other team members.
Freshmen Charles Tambia and Anna Erwin, sophomore
Russell Bitter, and junior Doug Desjardins round out the
team. Bitter acts as captain.

Cornell noted that Washington and Lee could inter-
pret the question sarcastically (i. e., America is in such
bad shape, it deserves someone like Reagan). Con-
sequently, Davidson could be forced to argue the oppo-
site, for Reagan. “If they take the sarcastic attitude,”
Carnell said, “we'll have to argue really the affirma-
tive.”

The debate’s style will be informal. “It’s not going to
be highly technical,” Bitter said. “It’s designed to pro-
voke the audience, designed to be fun.”

Audience reaction should determine a winner, Cor-
nell said. Though Davidson has the home court advan-
tage, Cornell noted that she had invited the Dean of Stu-
dents, who traditionally determines the winner. “And
Will Terry always gives the decision to the visitors, no
matter how awful they are,” she said.

Material Contributed By Ted Wilson

Dont Hold Your

Breath, The New
College Directory
Has Arrived

Getting the yearbook last week was a thrill, but I
was truly holding my breath for the most underrated
College publication of all, the College Directory.

Many questions haunt me about the ’84-85
Directory. We’ll start with the cover. What is going on
here? Are these eight people falling into place or out of
it? Does this cover symbolize the dissolution of faith,
with religion professor Karl Plank on the left and
Union Operations Manager Elizabeth Smiley on the
right? Or is it the opposite, showing the unity of all
branches of the College? Why so cryptic?

And where did all the other pictures go? Did those
people not give cnough money to be on the cover? Did
they back out at the last minute? Or is this the yearbook
nightmare come to life? Did the printer just leave out a
few? Oh, what are the answers to the questions? What
is going on here?

The questions continue as I view page one. “Social
Affiliation” in particular is a maze of puzzles. ATO?
Doesn’t ATOR. I. P. these days? When did those
nine pesky fraternities return? Are they off campus or
on? Do they self-select? Can I join?

MORE OR LESS}

By
ANN MEADOR

What about Campus Club? Pyramid Club? Is this
for Egyptophiles? Do many folks here like Egypt more
than most? Why haven’t we heard from these people?
What is going on here?

And now for some big questions. We’ ve all
suspected deep in our hearts that it was true, but when
did the N. C. Fellows and Hall Counselors officially
gain status as “Social Affiliation”? What about the
Stuart Scholars? Have they been snubbed?

Hey Communications, what is going on here?

Ponce de Leon Hits Davidson

The new Post Office is a great improvement over
the old one, and it’s nice to see that Postmaster Fisher
and company have provided new walkways to make
the trip easy. The nicest amenity of all, though, has to
be the gilded wonder to the left of the Main Street
entrance, a fountain that is actually pretty special.

You see, the USPS is not stupid. They don’t want
the long hike to the new P. O. to wear out the people
of Davidson; that water fountain is actually a fountain
of Youth, a source of life-extending elixir. No kidding.
If you try it out, you’ll find that the walk back to
campus is a little easier, the colors of the trees a little
greener, and the wrinkles on your face a little
smoother. If you look close enough, you’ll see the
second hand on your watch back up just a tad. But look
hard, because most people don’t notice it in the rush of
the day’s business.

A Short Update

Brady Alley/Pedestrian Walkway proceeds with
new developments every day. Now they’ ve installed
special burglar holes in the side of Davidson Dry
Goods to make night-time entry easy. They beat the
heck out of brick walls, that’s for sure.

And Finally. . .

Café etiquette: Large salad bowls are not frisbees

and should not be hurled, indoors or out.
