Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Ensemble Acting Ignites Scenes And Revelations

By JEFFREY MANN

They tell you in high school jour-
nalism classes that the purpose of a
drama review is to tell people whether or
not a show is worth seeing. Go see
Scenes and Revelations playing this
weekend and next in Hodson Hall. Des-
pite a languid beginning, Scenes and Re-
velations offers a fine ensemble with oc-
casionally stunning individual perfor-
mances. ~

Set in 1894, Elan Garonzik’s play
examines four sisters who yearn to go
West to watch their country grow. They
can’t seem to make it though, as various
lovers, deaths, and nervous breakdowns
get in the way. Director Rupert Barber
has striven for and achieved a tight en-
semble performance from the four sis-
ters, played by Karen Baldwin, Mary
Hill, Stephanie Moffett, and Suzann
Smith. Even when energy and interest
waned in the first act, the connection be-
tween the the characters was apparent. It
is easier to think of the practical Helena,
the dreamily tragic Rebecca, the artistic
Millie, and the repressed Charlotte as a
unit with four parts than as individuals.

Barber shifts the four in and out of the
“current” scene without ever letting them
leave stage. When they aren’t “on,” they
retreat to the corners of Joe Gardner's
washed-out brown angular set.

The technique is confusing at first,
with scene shifts not always cleariy de-
fined, but the deviation from realism be-
comes easy to accept. Barber constructs

_many striking tableaus with the women

waiting for their scenes. The eerie pro-
files waiting just offstage never let the
audience forget that four women are the
focus of this play, not just the ones who
happen to be on stage.

This play is built around the female
leads, providing a vehicle for actresses
which Davidson theatre has needed for
awhile. The four eventually prove up to
the challenge. Opening night started out
slowly and threatened to die on the vine
at times. A lack of energy led to pedantic
gestures and a few unfocussed scenes.

It came together, though, in the first
major scene between Moffett and the boy
next door, played by junior John Toler.
The intensity built from that point on so
that parts of the second act were riveting.
The last scene between Toler and Moffett
was as good as stage duets get. The spark
of intensity which eluded the cast before
intermission lit up the second act.

The play itself is not destined to be a
classic; several characters remain mere
spectres and the plot is weak and mean-
dering. The play deals best with indi-
vidual scenes and the revelations they
provide, appropriately enough. Those

Carroll Overton

Mary Hill and Stephanie Moffett in Scenes and Revelations.

looking for a sustained theme or great
work of literature will be disappointed;
the writing just isn’t there. Those looking

for impressive theatrical performances
will likely be more than satisfied, how-
ever.

4

Carter’s Paintings And Collages Capture Intensity

By SCOT MYERS

As you walk into the Chambers foyer
your eyes are immediately assaulted by
the electric colors of Clark Carter's
Senior Art Exhibit. Eleven works in all,
three of which are massive paintings and
the remainder are a combi lifton of oil
crayons and collage on paper.

The painting/collage piece entitled
Alladin’ s Departure measures 4’ x 5° and
represents Carter’s special ability to
create multiple layers on a canvas. It jux-
taposes several shades of blue with bright
fields of color. What makes the painting
so intense is not necessarily its colors but
the textures created by the paints. Each
color field has a pattern and thickness all
its own. From a distance, Alladin’s De-
parture becomes almost three-dimen-
sional as the tonal qualities draw some
fields closer to the viewer while others
are pulled back by the overlying layers.
The images are so unconstrained by the
two dimensional surface that the colors
wash around the surface to cover the
sides while still more colors actually
come off the surface with sculpted paint.

Its sister piece, Alladin’s Return, be-
comes even more fascinating than Alla-
din’s Departure. Several layers of pur-
ples and electric blues create a myriad of
textures in the painting. Laid over with
string to create still more patterns, the
piece also sports viscious ‘slashes and

am reer ener nen ee

reas

GP E_LMD ELLA AL LOO ALANS

Randy Stroud

® Clark Carter displays one of his works.

whole mood of the painting is further
heightened by the presence of a pale blue
patch of color in the upper right of the
canvas. The effect creates the impression
of something lying just beyond the paint-
ing that can be seen only if you peel away
the surface.

ee ee ee a sy

disappointment when held up against the
two.Alladin’s. Entilted ST3/crankshot off
two pipes, the painting is an uncomforta-
ble mix of color and pattern. While the
technique in the piece is similar to his
other two paintings, the result is not as
pleasing. The painting has too definite an
image | for such a large work. The success

veda SRS LAK

of the Alladin’s is the vagueness of the
image. S73°s definite lines and sym-
metry don’t draw the viewer into the
painting very well.

Some of Carter's finest work 1s evi-
denced by his smaller drawings. The un-
titled collage to the right of Al/ladin’'s Re-
turn has six layers of paper with twice as
many levels of color. The blending of
foreground and background colors
creates a soft rain-like pattern falling
from the solid in the upper right corner.
Surprisingly, this style, too, is not al-
ways successful. To the left of S73 is a
similar layered piece. This piece. how-
ever, becomes a jumbled blob with little
of the warmth or vitality of Carter’s other
drawings.

Another notable work is found to the
lower left of A/ladin’s Departure. A red
and green wave becomes a wonderful
jumble of alternately fading splashes of
color when a strip of hot pink pushes its
way into the bottom of the picture.

’ While, to the left of this piece. another

electric blue nightmare of lines becomes
enticing to the viewer as similar jets of
pink and orange glide across the paper.
Carter's first show demonstrates a
clear ability to manipulate color and tex-
ture in pictures. Perhaps a bit too influ-
enced by Professor Herb Jackson's
work, Carter shows a style uniquely his
own and will undoubtedly grow into a

genuine talent.
