6 . Friday, January 27, 1984/The Davidsonian

Workshop II: Datty Comedy And Your De Force

By ROSS HOLT

This week’s workshop plays, My
Cup Ranneth Over directed by Roxanna
Guilford, and Architruc, directed by
John Toler, are quite different one from
the other, but both are absorbing and at
times quite powerful.

John Patrick’s My Cup Ranneth Over
offers what at first appears to be slight, a
bit daffy comedy about a frustrated writ-
er with a drawer of rejection slips and her
folk-singer roommate. But once Yucca,
the singer (played by Denise Gyauch),
has her act reviewed in The New York
Times and “makes the jump” from
struggling artist to star, the play becomes
a serio-comic exploration of the distance
achievement puts between people. As
the phone starts ringing off the hook (al-
ways for Yucca), and crowds begin to
gather outside their buiding, a gap opens
between Yucca and her roommate Paula
(played by Stephanie Bruck) — who's
still struggling.

Paula at first abets Yucca in her
somewhat freakish stardom, but eventu-
ally comes to accuse Yucca of having
“changed.” Yucca, however, counters
that Paula is jealous of her new found
fame. As the dimensions of Yucca’s star-
dom increase, so does the defensive in-
terplay between the two women.

Both Bruck and Gyauch accomplish
the task of making their characters’ feel-
ings human though not sentimental. Di-
rector Guilford’s pace keeps the comedy
moving without trivializing the serious
aspects of the play. Gyauch does a good
job with Yucca, preserving the charac-
ter’s flightiness while at the same time
bringing her down to earth when the situ-
ation demands it. And Bruck’s comic
timing on her off-the-wall ripostes is im-
peccable. The production is quite enter-

Chris Gunn as King Architruc

taining, and the ending leaves the viewer
satisfied without providing easy, happy
answers to the problems in the roomates’
relationship.

The second play of the evening,
Robe Pinget’s Architruc, is simply a

tour de force. Tense, almost scary music
sets the tone at the beginning and the ten-
sion only increases throughout the play.
King Architruc (played by Chris Gunn)
is a weak, aging monarch who Is over-
seen by his courtier, Baga (Andrew Wil-

Peggy Pierotti

son). While Architruc pads meekly
around his bedchamber, Baga prances
with authority, carrying on the affairs of
state that Architruc cannot handle, and
playing characters for the edification of
the king.

But their relationship is a two-edged
sword: Architruc relies completely upon
Baga, but Baga himself exists only
through his de facto control of the king-
dom. But during the entire interaction
between Architruc and Baga, Death
lurks, in the fury-like form of Beth
Geiger, behind Architruc’s favorite tree.

Despite the play being done in the
round (the audience surrounding the
stage), director Toler’s set defines the
space of the King’s bedroom quite well.
Each possible exit is at least partially
blocked, and Architruc never leaves the
set. Chris Gunn's Architruc is superb —
physically aged but a child emotionally.
Gunn manages to affect the King’s de-
bilitation while maintaining a_ per-
former's energy, without resorting to a
clichéd, old man stereotype. Though
Gunn physically towers over Andrew
Wilson’s Baga, Wilson easily exerts a
command that gives his character the
power to control.

Architruc is a tense, powerful, and
many-layered play given an intense, en-
grossing production. Still, despite its
power, it does not overwhelm or erase
the effect of the first production. The
plays work well on the same bill, making
for a quite enjoyable evening at the
theatre.

Workshop III, Aria da Capo and Over-
tones will open on Thursday, February
9.

Never Cry Wolf More Than An Animal Movie

By MATT MORRIS
Never Cry Wolf (1983) Directed by
Carroll Ballard, Starring Charles Martin

Smith, Rated PG. Viewer’s Guide: ***1/
5

Several years ago I remember people
asking me if I had seen Francis Ford Cop-
pola’s The Black Stallion. My first reac-
tion was no, and neither did I care to see
any more films about horses, cats, little
girls, toads, or turtles. Yet my friends in-
sisted that this was more than an ‘“‘animal
movie.” Skeptically I went to see the
film. My friends were right. With The
Black Stallion, a new kind of horse opera
appeared to be in the making, a sort of
poem in rhythm, light, and maybe a
touch of nostalgia. I loved the movie, but
I couldn’t figure out exactly why. I also
noticed after seeing the film that Coppola

only produced — the poet/director be- ,

hind Black Stailion was someone 1’d
never heard of — Carroll Ballard.

Now Ballard has returned with a new
film of awesome beauty and wonder,
Never Cry Wolf. In it, a government en-
vironmentalist (Tyler, played by Charles
Smith) is sent to the Arctic to discover
exactly who or what is killing all the
caribou that inhabit those icy regions.

The government suspects the canis lupus
(Arctic Beige Wolf), but the humble
Tyler, upon reaching the Arctic moun-
tains, sides with the wolves.

After seeing Never Cry Wolf 1 now
understand what made The Black Stall-
ion so special. Despite their titles,
neither film is about animals. Instead,
both movies are interested and succeed in
creating a sense of inexplicable wonder.
Tyler is a dot against the stunning arctic
surroundings; this overpowering insig-
nificance makes him — and the viewer
— feel like more than just neighbors to
all the wolves, caribou and other animal
life on this planet. We are animals.

In a wonderful montage, Ballard
shows Tyler eating mice to stay alive
while outside his tent the wolves do the
same. Later Tyler meets an ancient na-
tive of the arctic region named Utek who
tells him that the wolves have a special
form of communication which only a few
humans understand. Oddly enough,
Tyler can communicate to Utek only
through a translator. Yet none of Bal-
lard’s notes on the similarity between
man and beast are meant to depress; in-
stead, Never Cry Wolf celebrates life.

Ballard takes an eyen more ambitious

step, however, including “evil entrep-
reneurs” who seem to have a habit of
strolling into other animal films and des-
troying the ecology with miles of Har-
dees. Yet even here, Ballard explores —
and stimulates — by suggesting that
man, like the wolves, lives off the land in
any way he can, whether it be eating

mice or eating a quarter- pounder with
cheese. This attitude will probably in-
furiate some environmentalists, but it is
the key that completes Ballard’s man vs.
animal/man is Animal drama. A talent to
be dealt with, Carroll Ballard’s Wolf is a

far cry from anything you'll ever see ina
Ranger Rick Magazine.

KING OF PIZZA

225 S. Broad St.

Moorewile FAMILY NIGHT

Every Monday Night
5 To 10

PIZZA

BUY ONE PIZZA
(ANY SIZE)
GET NEXT SMALLER SIZE

FREE

