Friday, April 27, 1984/The Davidsonian 3

Laughlin Meets Carnegie

To Discuss

By DAVID McGEE

SGA President John Laughlin met
last week with Wildcat Club Executive
Director Sandy Carnegie to discuss how
student opinion could be reconciled with
Davidson’s athletic program. Carnegie
also briefed Laughlin on the conditions

under which Davidson athletics operates.

A poll conducted winter term by the
Presidential Advisory Committee on ath-
letics indicated students and faculty feel
that major revenue sports (football and
basketball) receive too much emphasis
compared to non-revenue sports. A sig-
nificant number, however, responded
that emphasis on major sports was “about
right.”

Carnegie told Laughlin that, al-
though some students and faculty may
favor withdrawing from the Southern
Conference, membership in the Southern

Athletics

Conference gives better support to all
Davidson sports than if Davidson joined
another conference. According to Car-
negie, Laughlin said, the cost of main-
taining a football program would be the
same regardless of which conference
Davidson plays in. In addition, playing
in the Southern Conference improves re-
cruiting, eligibility for post-season tour-
nament play, and earnings from revenue
sports.

Carnegie also pointed out that the
Trustees made a decision for Davidson to
compete in the Southern Conference.

“He [Carnegie] feels, and I concur,
that we should support the Trustee’s de-
cision,” Laughlin said. He added that the
SGA hopes to promote a more positive
attitude toward athletes on campus.
“We're waiting for the new president to

arrive, and we plan to work with him,”

Laughlin said.

Union To Publish Event Guide

By RAND HARTSELL

A programming guide, presently in
the final stages of development, will be
published sometime early next year. The
17 to 20 page booklet was the brainchild
of former SGA President Hunter Mon-
roe. It will contain “hopefully everything
you always wanted to know about spon-
soring an event at Davidson,” said Paul
Kowert, who was in charge of compiling
and editing the guide.

Kowert explained that Monroe saw
the need for an information source which
would explain to anyone about all the ins
and outs of putting on an event.”

“Often people will start to organize a
function and not know where to go for
certain equipment, who to go to for per-

mission to put on an the event, things of
that nature,” explained Kowert. “The in-
formation also covers publicity, trans-
portation, security, tickets — generally,
things people just don’t think about when
they’re putting on an event.”

Kowert said the booklet is in the post-
criticism phase, having been critiqued by
Beverly Harris of the Communications
department, Dean of Students Will
Terry, Union staff secretary Lynda
Daniels, Dining Services Director
Carlton Pritchard, Monroe, SGA Presi-
dent John Laughlin; and Union Director
William Brown.

Kowert expects the guide to be pub-
lished through some branch of the Col-
lege Union.

Sharon Lowen conducts a workshop in classical Indian dance for a
group of students.

Lectures Highlight India Week

By TOM SCHILLING

Davidson’s South Asian Studies Pro-
gram sponsored “India Week’ from
Tuesday through Thursday. The events
included slide shows, lectures, and dis-
cussions on India’s political and
economic situations and culture, as well
as a vocal concert and a performance of
traditional dance.

History Professor Job Thomas, direc-
tor of the South Asian Studies Program,
said the activites were chosen in response
to “demonstrated specific interests of
students in the program.”

Many of the events represent courses
related to India taught in various depart-
ments, particularly in music, drama, and
anthropology. “For example,” explained
Thomas, “there will be an Indian
Folklore class in anthropology offered
again next year.” Other related courses
include the Economics of Southeast
Asia, and Indian art.

According to Thomas, “Davidson
has the largest program with India from
New York to Texas.” The College has
sent over one-half of the “Term In India”

participants each year since the program
began.

Sharon Lowen performed a tradi-
tional dance of Northeastern India on
Thurday night to conclude the three-day
program. Lowen lives in North Carolina,
but has studied the ‘“Odissi” classical
dance from gurus in India. She used
elaborate make-up, subtle hand move-
ments, and chanting background music
to convey the sense of the dance.

In addition to demonstrations of the
rich cultural heritage, other activities fo-
cused on current problems. Dr. Shubh
Kumar delivered a lecture on “The Role
Of Women in Agricultural Production”
by on Tuesday. Thomas said “the women
have to work too much” and blames
some of the problem on “giant families”
and problems in agriculture. The average
Indian male worker might earn the equi-
valent of seventy cents a day to care for a
family of ten, and a heavy burden falls on
the woman, he said.

Thomas has been encouraged by the
attendance at the events and hopes they
will stimulate interest in South Asian
courses.

Bolding Takes Values Survey For Doctorate Work

By ELIZABETH SMILEY

What do you value more — social
recognition or national security? Do you
consider yourself a more forgiving or a
more logical person? And do you feel
that making religous services an integral
part of Davidson activities is of no im-
portance, medium importance, or of ex-
tremely high importance?

Students, faculty, professional and

support staffs, alumni, trustees, and
some incoming freshmen received an op-
portunity to answer questions like these
this week on a survey circulated by Di-
rector of Housing Bill Bolding. Bolding
is currently at work on his doctoral dis-
sertation in Higher Education Adminis-
tration. He chose Davidson as the focus
of his research into the goals of small lib-
eral arts institutions because ofthe old
doctoral philosophy of convenience,” he
said.

The survey was distributed to all on-
campus residents and to the College
perimeter houses. Rouglily one-third of

. Spondent...”, ..’.

Bill Bolding
naire, a response rate much higher than
the 10 percent with which Bolding would
have been satisfied.

The questionnaire consisted of nine-
teen evaluative statements, two values
sets to be ranked in ascending order, and

Randy Stroud

a section on personal data. The question- ©

naire preserved the anonymity of each re-

17 out of the 19 statements asked re-
spondents to evaluate the spirituality of
the College. More specifically. they re-
quired respondents to decide how predo-
minantly a Christian ethic figures into
Davidson's goals. All of the statements
were derived directly from the College
Statement of Purpose, some intact, Bold-

"ing said:

According to Bolding, statements
like “Davidson's goal is to seek faculty
of genuine spirituality,” are ambiguous
and open to diverse interpretations. To
evaluate the statement on a given scale of
1-5, a respondent must supply his or her
own definition both of “spirituality” and
of Davidson’s real goals.

Bolding expects to see radically dif-
ferent answers between seniors and
freshmen, and even perhaps faculty and
students. He has not yet tallied the re-
sponses, however. At this point, he is
“aiming for a summer completiqn” of his
research.

Bolding became interested in instity-

>< tional goats partly because of tis vision

.. -he said :- ae ree

for the future of small liberal arts col-
leges. As enrollments decrease, Bolding
feels that colleges will need to create or
strengthen a set of values and goals to
shape and maintain the character of the
College. In addition. colleges must de-
termine who sets their goals. Should the
trustees have that responsibility? Or is it
up to the college president and/or facul-
ty?

Bolding hopes to use his research to
begin answering crucial questions about
undergraduate institutional goals. How-
ever, he stressed he has made no pre-con-
ceived hypotheses about what he expects
to discover from his study. Some surpris-
ing results may occur. But Bolding re-

‘ mains convinced of one assumption: set-

ting goals for a liberal arts college need
not — and should not — be a difficult
task.

Bolding does not plan to submit his
research to Davidson administrators and
faculty. However, complete dissertation
will be available to any interested reader.

Ce

Communications
