Friday, October 26, 1984/The Davidsonian 15

Reasons For Voting Against Reagan

Craig Detweiler

I cannot vote for Ronald Reagan. I'll admit he ap-
pears to be a sincere, conscientious leader, but his poli-
cies do not jibe with my conscience. I could ignore his
stances and support him because he seems presidential,
but I would betray my own ideals. In casting my ballot
for Walter Mondale, I’m voting against a president
whose policies I know, and voting for a candidate whose
policies I’ve heard. In 1984, I'll choose the unknown
rather than the known I cannot condone.

How do I disagree with the President? Let me count
the ways. On economics, defense, foreign policy, mor-
ality and social issues, I diverge from Reagan’s position.
I do not intend to marshall statistics to support my opin-
ions. If the President wishes to cite more people employ-
ed that ever before, I’ll respond with figures about more
people. I won’t debate numbers of U.S. nuclear
warheads versus Soviet nuclear tonnage. I wish to ex-
press opinions about the President’s opinions and sub-
sequent policies.

In the area of economics, I welcome the firm reduc-
tion of inflation, unemployment, and taxes that have
coincided with the current administration. I challenge
voters to look beyond their present checking acounts,
though. The trade deficits spawned by an overvalued
dollar and propped up interest rates will result in either
unemployment or staunch protectionism, both anathema
to Reagan’s free trade fagade. A president who sees little
relationship between the budget deficit and the state of
the economy really scares me. Reagan’s cumulative fed-
eral deficit of $670 billion exceeds the total of all previ-
ous deficits since 1945. Higher taxes and escalating in-
flation result from such absurd deficits. How did a presi-
dent who planned “to get government off the people’s
backs” generate such a deficit?

It’s called defense. In the Reagan administration's
definition of the word, an “of” may be substituted for the

“de.” Why do we need the largest peacetime military
buildup four straight years, with $2 trillion slated to be
spent over the next five years? Will we allow Reagan to
pull the economy down the lamentable defense drain of
Soviet example? |

Irrespective of the economic impact, can you justify
the need for almost 30,000 new nuclear warheads being
produced in the coming decade? The MX, B-1, Trident,
Cruise, and Pershing II programs scare the heck out of
me. Reagan’s nuclear arms buildup fosters fear rather
than national security. When you can annihilate the
world upteen times, what difference will five or ten more
times make?

Even if you agree with Reagan’s peace through
strength (or live by the sword, die by the sword) policy,
can you also support peace through silence? The Admin-

istration has broken off arms control negotiations with
the Soviets across the board. Just last month, George
Schulz rejected a Soviet proposal to freeze neutron bomb
research and production. Do not allow the President's
meeting with Andrei Gromyko to deceive you. Reagan
has displayed no commitment to peaceful, open arms
control talks.

He has exhibited a commitment to talk — after fight-
ing. Foreign policy in the Middle East and Central
American has been as interventionist and militaristic as
the alleged Soviet activity. While Reagan accuses the
Soviets of exporting revolution, we openly practice it.
Efforts to undermine the Nicaraguan government seem
to conflict with our noble, democratic history. What
does mining the harbors of Nicaragua have to do with de-
mocracy? Warren Gould recently illuminated our out-
rageous intervention in El Salvador. Neighboring Hon-
duras has become an outpost for U.S. soldiers and ad-
visors,

Don't forget Lebanon, either. What business do we
have letting 260 Marines die in the middle of Mideast
civil war? The President’s tunnel (di)vision of the world
into two spheres, Soviet and American, will not begin to
solve international problems. It has only resulted in the
death of innocent soldiers and civilians.

The President's foreign policy intrigues me when he
addresses social issues. His perceptions of justice seem
somewhat odd. He arms a revolution to free oppressed
Nicaraguans and for no extra charge, funds it with cuts in
useless education, school lunch, and Medicare benefits.
I believe most folks would choose butter over guns. His
cuts of social programs appear quite necessary and justi-
fiable to an upper-class white like myself.

Carolyn Myers of Crisis Assistance Ministry in

Charlotte may have a different perspective. She has not
been getting to work two hours earlier not because she
likes mornings, but because the Administration’s pro-
gram slashing has caused lines to form at Crisis Assist-
ance before it opens. The President’s version of compas-
sion seems to extend only until birth. After that its every
man, woman, and child for himself, with the owner of
the fastest BMW and sharpest lawyer winning.

While whittling away the appreciated, necessary
benefits of many poor Americans, Reagan has strongly
advocated anew morality for the United States. How can
one cram morality down hungry people’s throats? While
I heartily support personal prayer, I cannot endorse a
government imposition of values. Personal beliefs must
not be forced into public policy.

Like Geraldine Ferraro, I personally oppose abor-
tion, but publicly affirm the freedom for responsible
choice (as in cases of rape, incest, maternal caution). As
a Christian, Reagan should believe people can only be
changed from the inside-out. If the President and Jerry
Falwell hope to transform the morality of the American

people, then their efforts to legislate should be rechan-
neled toward evangelism.

The downfall of my article centers on the same issue
of external, intellectual knowledge and internal convic-
tions. I address the issues from an_ intellectual
standpoint, but realize votes won't be changed ufitil
hearts are. Undoubtedly, Reagan's policies have bene-
fitted the majority of Davidson's young urban profes-
sionals-to-be. I challenge folks to look beyond personal
gain to long term diplomacy, economic status, and s0-
cial justice. President Reagan has heightened global ten-
sions, sparked a fire under a smouldering nuclear arse-
nal, alienated our Central American neighbors, and rob-
Bed from the poor to give to the rich. Open your eyes,
open your minds, open your hearts. My reasons for vot-
ing against Ronald Reagan are strong enough to moti-
vate me to vote for Mondale. I hope you will join me::

Detweiler is a senior English major from Charlotte,

N.C.

Reagan Deceives Voters

John Parker

President Ronald Reagan cuts a very likeable figure.
Even those with the most serious objections to his poli-

cies must admit that at one time or another his well-di- _

rected rhetoric has struck a responsive chord in their
hearts. He is paternal without being paternalistic, strong
without being overbearing. If the cries for “four more
years” are answered in the affirmative by the American
public on Nov. 6 it will have been Reagan’s projected
image which propelled him into the Oval Office.

Image and rhetoric have their place in every political

‘campaign, but in “Ronald Reagan’s they have become

central. This fact in itself is disturbing. What is more dis-
turbing is the easily documented disparity between the
rhetoric and the realities. To my knowledge no president
has ever deceived the American public so frequently or
so blithely, both in large matters and in small. The Great
Communicator seems to have problems in communicat-
ing the truth.

Reagan won the 1980 election largely on his pledge
to fight “big government.” Today he is running for re-
election on this same theme. Yet under Reagan, bureau-
cratic government has blossomed. He currently presides
over the largest government in United States history.
According to analyst Gar Alperovitz, federal spending
asa percentage of GNP rose from just under 22 percent
to just under 24 percent between 1979 and 1983.

Despite the rhetoric against federal protectionism
and regulation Reagan's administration has:

—"informally” limited imports of foreign autos,
steel, sugar, and motorcycles.

—supported government programs which aid the de-
fense and nuclear power industries.

—enforced price-support programs for various con-
sumer goods.

—favored large industry over small business in the
1981 tax bill.

—given farmers over $21 billion in goods as part of a
Payment-In-Kind program.

—bailed out Continental Illinois National Bank,
much as Carter’s administration bailed out Chrysler Cor-
poration.

In 1980 Reagan assailed Carter and the democratic
leadership for saddling America with a $35 billion a year
budget deficit. He claimed his proposals would all but
eliminate the deficit. Under his administration, how-
ever, despite drastic cuts in social welfare programs this
figure has risen to $175 billion dollars per year. The fed-
eral government currently borrows one out of every four
dollars it spends from the private sector, a fact reflected
in higher, growth-inhibiting interest rates for businesses
and consumers. The rise in the deficit is directly attribut-
able to Reagan's unprecedented military build-up. this
being the only area where Reagan has consistently asked
Congress to increase spending.

During the October 14 debate Reagan claimed to
have “preserved the safety net” of social welfare pro-
grams. Yet, according to the Bureau of the Census, in
1983 35.3 million Americans were living below the pov-
erty line (versus 29.3 million in 1980). He also claimed

that his tax cuts did not benefit the rich. Yet according to
the Congressional Budget Office, in1983 households
earning $10,000 a year — below the poverty line of
$10,178 a year — lost $270 as a result of these cuts while
those earning $80,000 a year or more gained $7,070.
Even Budget Director David Stockman admitted in 198]
that Reagan's supply-side economics was an excusé for
returning more income to the rich. .

In this same debate Reagan claimed never to have re-
quested cuts in Medicare. In fact, he submitted a propo-
sal to cut Medicare by $20.4 million in his first full-
fledged budget for fiscal 1983. Reagan also proposed
drastic cuts in Social Security immediately after the
1980 election, even though he had denied that he woutd
attempt this during the 1980 campaign.

Reagan likes to style himself a peacemaker. To this
end he has attempted to call one missile “Corpus Christi”
(Body of Christ), and created the name “Peacekeeper”
for another missile, the MX (seen by many defense
analysts as the most destablizing weapon yet in the arms
race). He has called on the Soviets to resume arms con-
trol negotiations, and has quoted non-violence advocate
Mahatma Ghandi. Most recently he has taken credit for
the Salvadoran peace talks despite his opposition to
every proposal concerning such talks in the past three
years.

Is the American public ready to forget his unparal-
leled military build-up? His “joke” about bombing the
Russians out of existence? His characterization of the
Soviet Union as an “evil empire” that must be actively
combatted? These are the facts, and facts should speak
louder than election-year rhetoric and political postur-
ing.

Reagan's record on civil rights, the environment,
educational aid, and funding for the arts reveals a similar
pattern of deception. One recent incident, however will
serve to highlight the president's policy of deliberate
misrepresentation and deception.

Reagan recently campaigned in Ohio, retracing
Harry Truman's famous whistle-stop tour of 1948. In at-
tempting to sway democratic voters he invoked the
memory of Truman, “the last democrat I voted for.” He
took the occasion to compare himself with Truman. It
was later pointed out that Truman travelled the same
route in 1948 attacking the Republicans for cutting So-
cial Security benefits and for passing a tax cut for the
rich.

According to the combined results of recent New
York Times and CBS News polls, 61 percent of all regis-
tered voters aged 18-24 support Reagan. Among these
are many educated, middle- and upper-class students
similar in many particulars to Davidson College stu-
dents. Agnong this intelligent and informed group
economic self-interest alone cannot account for this sup-
port. Neither can Reagan's celebrated ability to appeal to
the hopes and dreams of young Americans, although this
comes closest to the mark.

No, these people support Reagan because they want
to believe what he says about our economy, our domes-
tic policy and our foreign policy. And | had thought col-
lege was supposed to promote critical thinking!

Parker is a senior English major from Chicago, Il
