Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First ?

By ANDY BARRON
Davidson College prides itself on its
tradition as a superior institution of
higher learning that encourges clear
thinking. Unfortunately, foresight took a

Trustees met last Friday to determine the
future of Davidson football. By voting to
join the new Colonial League in 1987,
the Trustees signed a death certificate to
Davidson’s almost 50 year association
with the Southern Conference.

The decision did not surprise me, but
it did disappoint me. I have been excited
about the future of Davidson’s football
program since Vic Gatto signed on as the
new head coach. In Gatto, Davidson has
a coach with the enthusiasm and football
knowledge necessary to rebuild the pro-
gram. But no coach can produce a winner
without support, especially from such an
important group as the Trustees. Yet in-
stead of giving Gatto support, such as ad-
ditional financial assistance, the Trustees
took away part of the Davidson football
package; Davidson’s Southern Confer-
ence affiliation exists no longer.

The Trustees have long followed a
philosophy that Davidson doesn’t need a
first-class football program. Top-quality
football demands more financial support
than the Trustees are willing to consider
much less approve. The term “football
scholarship” seems to stop a lot of admin-
istrative hearts on this campus.

Why? To win games, Davidson
should try to attract quality student/
athletes, not lower the quality of their op-
ponents. The only way to consistently do
this is through scholarships. Why can't
Davidson give, say 20 scholarships, or
15, or ten, orten partial scholarships? An
infusion of ten big linemen would help
the football program immensely, I don’t
believe I am the only person who would
like to see Davidson put more money into
football and enable the team compete in
the Southern Conference.

Lm sure that economics play a major
role in the Trustees’ apprehension toward
granting athletic scholarships, The bas-
ketball team can afford scholarships
while football can't because fewer
players are needed to field a basketball
team than a football team. Yet the tre-

backseat to a quick fix proposal when the ~

mendous costs of transporting the foot-
ball team to New England three to five
times every fall term doesn’t seem to
bother the Trustees. In addition, nobody
seems concerned about the extra travel
costs that the baseball, basketball, and
soccer teams will accumulate when they
travel to play more distant opponents
rather than Southern Conference teams.
It seems to me that a lot of money will be
going into gasoline that could be spent on
equipment, facility improvement, re-
cruiting, and SCHOLARSHIPS for the
football program.

I must say that Davidson has yet to be
ousted from the Southern Conference.
However, the comments from people
such as Appalachian State's athletic di-
rector Jim Garner do not make me think
Davidson will be in the Southern Confer-
ence after next year. Garner expressed
his fear that Davidson was pouring all its
money into basketball. By allowing
Davidson not to compete in Southern
Conference football, according to
Garner, the Conference would be giving
Davidson an unfair advantage in basket-
ball. According to Davidson's own press
release concerning the change in foot-
ball, “Conference affiliation for these
teams (the other men’s varsity sports) is
currently being pursued.” No one seems
to believe Davidson will be a member of
the Southern Conference for much
longer.

My strongest misgiving conceming
the Colonial League is that this move
doesn’t ensure a better record for David-
son football, As stated earlier, I believe
Coach Gatto will improve the quality of
play of Davidson football. Yet Davidson
has proven they can lose to Guilford as
easily as Western Carolina over the last
few years. Hopefully, Davidson will win
consistently in the Colonial League.
Without more quality players, however,
Davidson’s only gain by moving to the
Colonial League will be longer rides
home after losing.

The quick-fix approach used by the
Trustees is completely inappropriate for
Davidson. Davidson has long prided it-
self on being David taking on Goliath.
The big games at Davidson are against
ACC opponents, Appalachian State and

Womens Tennis
Finishes Second In NCAA

By PATRICIA HAHN

The Davidson women's tennis team’s
bid to repeat last year’s National Cham-
pionship ended in a 8-1 loss to the Univer-
sity of California at San Diego in the final
round,

Davidson began the NCAA Division II
women’s tennis championship tournamnent
strong by defeating Pomona-Pitzer 6-3 and
Franklin and Marshall 5-2 (number 1 and 3
doubles were not completed). Strong sing-
les play from junior Caroline Barclay,
freshman Amy McNelis, and sophomore
Debbie Podolin formed the core of David-
son’s advance into the final round.

These victories moved the Lady Cats
into the final match against the University
of California at San Diego. Podolin gained
the single match point for Davidson when
she defeated San Diego’s number four
player 7-5, 3-6, 6-2. Principia College de-
feated Franklin and Marshall 7-2 to take
third place.

After most of the team returned to
Davidson, Barclay and McNelis competed
in the individual singles and doubles cham-
pionship competitions. Both advanced to
the quarterfinals in both singles and doubles
before losing.

Although Davidson was unable to re-
claim the national title, the team, under the
direction of Coach Caroline Brown,
finished the season with a 21-6 record, an
improvement on last year’s record of 17-6.
This marks their eleventh straight winning
season.

Graduation will remove seniors Tricia
Ives and Sarah Patterson from next year's
roster. “A significant loss,” according to
Coach Brown, “but this team is highly cap-
able of jumping hurdles—we will have our
top four returning and this team is fourteen
members strong.” The team also looks for-
ward to the arrival of freshman talent next
fall.

Is The Colonial League Right For Davidson?

Furman in soccer, and Marshall and UT-
Chattanooga in basketball. Playing
Erskine and Warren Wilson doesn’t ex-
cite me because these opponents don’t fit
my idea of Goliath. Duke, North
Carolina, and Notre Dame are the
Goliath's I imagine Davidson slaying.
Even when Davidson loses, these games
are more fun than any Wofford “battle.” J
can’t imagine ever seeing Lehigh in the
same way I look at St. John’s.

Though Davidson’s Southern Con-
ference foes are generally no threat to
achieve national attention, the schools
that compose the Southern Conference
are Davidson’s TRADITIONAL oppo-
nents. It seems strange that a young hot-
head like me should be reminding the
Trustees of this school about tradition.
Leaving the Southern Conference means
no more home basketball games against
Marshall, UTC, and all their fans. !'m
sure George Mason is a solid school, but
how tense will the atmosphere be in
Johnston Gym when the Patriots and
half-a-dozen of their fans “invade.” Hard
to imagine missing the Thundering Herd.
but I think I already do.

By mentioning George Mason as a
possible basketball opponent, I'm as-
suming Davidson will be able to join the
ECAC South. Right now, no one knows
what, if any, conference Davidson will
be in three years from now. Conference
affiliation is important to a sports pro-
gram, especially basketball, for many
reasons, Without conferences, there are
no conference championships. David-
son's baseball team would not be South
Division champions without a confer-
ence. Conferences also allow recognition
for outstanding individual efforts such as
baseball Coach George Greer being
named Southern Conference Coach of
the Year.

Basketball depends heavily on the
many benefits of conference affiliation.
Winning the conference tournament al-
lows the team to play in the NCAA tour-
nament. Success in post-season tourna-
ments is the goal of any college basket-
ball program. Also, success in the NCAA
tournament translates to money, big
money, for the school, Money is the
straw that stirs the drink that is college

Local

pottery

sports; money is why Davidson's football
team is’t remaining in the Southern Con-
ference.

“I’m concerned about the lack of cer-
tainty surrounding our program caused
by changing football conferences,” said
basketball Coach Bobby Hussey. “Con-
ference affiliation is very important to
our program because it gives us a definite
set of opponents and a direct path to the
NCAA tournament, Without a confer-
ence to play in, it is very difficult to re-
cnuit great players, I'm also concerned
about the feasibility of any conference we
would join. Traveling is already very dif-
ficult for the players due to the academic
success expected of them. The added dis-
tance we would have to travel would
mean missing more classes and putting
more of a strain on our players.”

The move from the Southern Confer-
ence comes at a time when Davidson is
doing very well in the conference. The
soccer team has challenged for the league
title for the last couple of years and is ex-
pected to continue to improve. The
baseball team loses no one from this
year's South Division championship
team. The tennis team continues to finish
high in the conference every year and has
a horde of underclassmen already playing
key roles. The basketball team loses no
one from last year’s exciting squad. With
the exception of football, Davidson is
competitive in the Southern Conference.

For next year, at least, Davidson will
be in the Southern Conference. After
that, nothing is certain exeept that the
football team will get to travel alot. With
a new conference, a new athletic direc-
tor, and a new football coach, the dust
hasn't had a chance to settle lately. As
athletic director Kit Morris, the Trustees,
and the other powers that be, plot David-
son's athletic course for the near future
more changes in the status quo will be
made. The Trustee's decision regarding
football remains unlike Davidson: the de-
cision was fast, bold, and broke with
tradition. The repercussions of this deci-
sion will be with Davidson for a long
time. Yes, the times they are a-changing.
1 wish I felt they were changing for the
better.

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.
28036
892-7521

and other

Mother’s Day Gifts.

CAROLINA
= BANK.

Davidson
892-7815

|-77 at Hwy 73
Cornelius/Lake

137 N. Main St.

Norman
892-7805
