10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Kevin Horan, Executive Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor . Stephen Mank, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Fellows

Each year enthusiastic sophomores return to campus with the hopes
of becoming a member of Davidson’s elite leadership circle. Admission
to this group of acknowledged leaders not only adds prestige to the
graduate resume, but also opens many doors to positions of power on the
Davidson campus. This group is, of course, the N.C. Fellows.

It seems the N.C. Fellows have finally awoken. They now see that
their organization was designed to be more than just an honor organiza-
tion for the selected leaders on the Davidson College campus. They are,
rather, a group which seeks to develop the leadership potential of stu-
dents through the use of workshops, seminars, etc.

If the Fellows had originally started as an honor society, perhaps
things would be different. However, the group which is supposed to
develop leadership skills instead acts as a support group for proven lead-
ers. This is good, in fact, it is necessary for leaders to be able to discuss
various leadership styles, but however defeats the service purpose of the
organization.

We are glad to see that the Fellows have noticed, on their own, that
their program is in desperate need of revitalization. This only proves the
strength of the people chosen to be members. Like true leaders they
noticed problems with their members’ commitments before the program
deteriorated. This speaks highly for the current Fellows.

As they prepare to go through the process of redesigning and restruc-
turing their organization, we wish them the best. It is our belief that the
N.C. Fellows can serve a very strong and important role on the Davidson
campus, especially with the amount of leadership which flourishes here.
The N.C. Fellows program is worth the trouble of revitalization, and we
commend the Fellows for realizing that before it became too late.

Spring Fever |

And now from the lighter sidé. Admittedly it is getting toward the
end of the year which means it is becoming increasingly hard for anyone
to have an opinion on anything, but folks, this is getting ridiculous. I
mean really. When it takes three days of active coercion and solicitation
to find students and/or faculty members who are willing to speak out ona
subject, things are bad.

Now we realize that it is hard to think about being upset or worried
about things, much less even slightly concerned, when the weather is
pushing 80 degrees and there is a reggae band playing on the illustrious
Richardson field, but we are beginning to wonder if there are even any
readers out there. Wake up people! There are things happening all
around you and we not only encourage, but we actively desire your opin-
ion on any subject.

If it is writing the actual opinion that has got you down, don’t WoOITy.
It’s easy and relatively painless. No one, to our knowledge has died from
the actual writing of an opinion. In fact, it’s much easier than writing a
paper, and you have the luxury of not having to worry about a grade. All

it takes is an honest feeling about a subject and you can write away.
Opinions, much to the dismay of many a frustrated writer, do not have to
be hell, fire and brimstone preached from the mountain on a cold, rainy
Sunday. They can be pensive thought-provoking pieces of literature
written,n solitude, or even light humorous pieces written in oblivion. An
opinion is, nonetheless, a sign that someone cares.

Believe it or not there are a lot of benefits that go along with the writ-
ing of an opinion as well. Think about it, you get your name in print—big
print even. You get nationwide exposure—we do have subscribers ev-
erywhere, and you get campus exposure as well, rumor has it that various
Davidson administrators do read The Davidsonian on a regular basis.
You get all this and more for one low price—the simple fee of taking time
to write down your thoughts and feelings. As far as deadlines are con-
cerned, we only ask that opinions be turned into our offices on the top
floor of the Union by 9 p.m. on Tuesday nights before the Friday pub-
lishing. Obviously, you cannot say we are pushy.

Well that’s about all for this term as far as begging goes. We only
want to remind you that The Davidsonian is a student publication and
thus needs student input to remain functional. So why not pick up your
pen and drop us a line. Surely you’re thinking about something.

And by the way, frolic away!

Friday, April 19, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

| ou KNOW cee
ee ALWAYS
woNDE ere ° es
‘nPROLIC™?

Letters

Die-In
To the Editors:

We at Davidson are fortunate to live ina
peaceful community in which we are free to
walk and shop and talk to our friends in no
fear. There are no soldiers armed with
machine guns standing on our corners.
There are no daily appearances of tanks on
our streets. Many people in our world are
not so fortunate. Every year our military
budgets grow and more people are forced to
live in armored environments.

It is impossible to believe that increased
armaments, preparation for war, bring
peace to our world. In the next few days our
U. S. government leaders will be voting on
aid to the contras in Central America. To
vote in favor of this aid is to vote in favor of
the war in Nicaragua. To vote in favor of the
aid is to vote to increase the armaments in
the everyday lives of our neighbors.

On Monday, April 22, there will be a
Die-In in front of Chambers at 11:45 a.m.
This will be a symbolic action to show our
concern about the increased militarization,
by U. S. aid, of Central America in particu-
lar and our earth in general.

The Davidson Peace Coalition

Harsh Words

To the Editors:
Whether or not it gives one a thrill to use
harsh words in editorials to which there can

The Davidsonian welcomes letter
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2)We require that letters be neatly

typed.
3)We require that letters be signed

Letters Policy

be no immediate response, one should still
be somewhat careful, even accurate, in
selecting those words. This past winter the
S.G.A. did not adequately publicize the up-
coming Union Board candidacy declaration
deadline. To correct the: situation, the
S.G.A. wisely decided to reopen sign-ups
and publicize properly. The S.G.A. acted
apologetically and quickly to defend the
rights of those whe had missed the dead-
line. Your editorial staff decided that that
action was a “bulldozing” of the rights of
those who had signed up. How silly that is;
since when has it been a right to be given a
position because the election was uncon-
tested due to an administrative foul-up?
Without being pedantic, I would like to en-
courage you editors to avoid the very com-
mon proclivity to substitute firmness of
opinion for accuracy of recall.

Sayres Rudy

Useless

To the Editor:

Throughout this school year, Peggy
Pierotti has used The Davidsonian to comp-
lain about everything from the JYA pro-
gram to wheelchair elevators for the handi-
capped.

Let’s add Peggy Pierotti’s opinions arti-
cles to her list of things at Davidson that are
pretty useless.

Ann Miano

and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors. _

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertisements:
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.

