Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian 3

Media Analyst Addresses Sexism In Advertising

‘By ROXANNA GUILFORD

This past week, Davidson's
Women’s Concerns Committee (WCC)
sponsored its third annual Women’s
Week. Each day the WCC presented var-
ious speakers, poetry readings, work-
shops, and performances.

According to WCC President
Elizabeth Laughlin, Women’s Week had
been in the works since last April. Since
July, Laughlin has been making specific
plans and _ contacting _resources.
Women’s Week was the culmination of
» nine months worth of work,She said.

“The Naked Truth”

The week began officially Tuesday
evening with a presentation by Dr. Jean
Kilbourne titled “The Naked Truth: Ad-
vertising’s Image of Women.” In this
slide and lecture program Kilbourne, a
nationally known media analyst, explo-
red the subtle and not so subtle ways in
which advertising exploits women. She
sought to make her audience “take adver-
tisements seriously” and to become
aware of the images they present, she
said. She noted the great influence of
commercials in shaping attitudes, which,
in turn, affect behavior.

After her introductory remarks, she
narrated a slide show which presented
evidence of her claims. Images of the
“ideal” woman, with faultless face and
prepubecent bodies represented, she
said, the impossible standards set for
women. The face becomes a mask, and
the body a package, she said.

The flip side of this “ideal woman”
mythology, however, is what distresses
Kilbourne most. Since women can never
reach the ideal, the images create a loath-
ing for “imperfect womanhood,” she
said. The message, according to Kil-
bourne, is “you’re ugly, you’re disgust-
ing.” In addition, feminine hygiene ads
announce that to be a woman is to smell
bad. Nearly all ads, but especially those
for diet aids, she said, denounce the natu-
ral female form.

According to these standards, Kil-
bourne added, Marilyn Monroe would be
considered obese. According to Kil-
bourne, what a woman is, she 1s taught to
despise. She pointed out that all adver-
tisements play upon anxiety. For
women, they create a self-loathing, then
proceed to push products (often unneces-

Former U.S.

By BO TAYLOE

Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow
Harold H. Saunders visited Davidson
this week to conduct discussions on
American foreign policy issues. For-
merly a member of the National Security
Council’s White House staff and an As-
sistant Secretary of State, Saunders met
with students and faculty in a variety of
settings to analyze present and past as-
pects of U. S. foreign policy.

Saunders is currently a fellow at the
American Enterprise Institute for For-
eign Policy Research in Washington,
D. C., and he has served as a Deputy As-
sistant Director of State and Director of
Intelligence and Research. He partici-
pated in negotiations with Iran during the
hostage crisis and received the Presi-
dent’s Medal for his contribution to the
Camp David Peace Accords.

Since early Monday morning, the
former diplomat has pursued a regimen
which has led him through breakfasts
with students in the Commons, informal
discussions in the Union conversation
pit, participation in political science

Dr. Jean Kilbourne lectures on the image of women in advertising.

sary and unhealthy) to address this
“problem,” she said.

Included in this female self-loathing
is a fear of aging. The dignified man’s
counterpart is a dowdy woman. She is
told to look young, or else lose her man.
Other women, especially younger ones,
are portrayed as competition, Kilbourne
said.

Sex In Advertising

A small part of Kilbourne’s presenta-
tion concentrated upon subliminal sexual
innuendo. Although she admitted that
the use of subliminal advertising cannot
be proved, she showed slides of adver-
tisements containing undeniable sexual
content.

In general, Kilbourne spoke against
the image of women as inferior and
brainless objects. However, she said she
reserves her greatest outrage for two par-

ticularly offensive advertising images:
children as sex objects and violence
against women.

Using little girls in sexual roles is a
relatively new, but very disturbing trend,
Kilbourne said. This takes on frightening
proportions, viewed in the context of a
society where 25 percent of its female
children are sexually molested. While
Kilbourne does not see any causality im-
plied by this, she maintains that the ad-
vertisements create an acceptable cli-
mate for such crimes.

Fortunately, Kilbourne believes that
this exploitation of children can still be
curbed. She urged those concerned to
write the offending companies in care of
the network or magazine and protest.

Violence against women, however,
is far more entrenched in today’s society.
The objectification of women lays the

Phillip Dennis

groundwork, she said. If women are
viewed as simply a collection of dispa-
rate body parts, Kilbourne said, and not
as people, their abuse becomes all the
more thinkable. Many advertisements
seem to follow this thinking, portraying
women as victims of assault, rape, bon-
dage, sadism and murder, she said. Men
are told that “it is manly to be brutal.”

She views the increase in portrayals
of violence against women as possible
backlash against the women’s move-
ment. It is not a conscious conspiracy,
however, she said. Rather, Kilbourne
maintains that it “is a function of the col-
lective mindset. Violence is inevitable
when you turn a woman into a thing.”

Kilbourne was the first of a series of
speakers and events this week. On
Wednesday, Dr. Mary Lee Daugherty
spoke at the Open Luncheon on her ex-
periences with the women of Ap-
palachia. She is a consultant to the Coun-
cil on Religion in Appalachia, and has
produced numerous documentaries.

That evening, local poets Rebecca
Devet and Julie Suk gave an informal
reading of their works in the 900 Room.
Missy Kuykendall led a seminar on
“Risk Taking and Assertiveness” yester-
day afternoon. This workshop addressed
the attitudes which keep women from as-
serting themselves. Last night, English
Professor John Engell presented the Fine
Film Persona, and provided some seeds
for discussion after the movie.

This afternoon, Dr. Daugherty con-
ducted a seminar and showed her vid-
eotape “A Comparison of Appalachian
Women to Women in the Third World.”

The entertainment in the 900 Room

also reflects the concerns of Women's
Week. Tonight and tomorrow night,
Barbara Bailey Hutchinson will perform
in the 900 Room. Using both original and

well-known music, she performs on the

piano and guitar as well as sings.

WCC president Elizabeth Laughlin
sees “a great deal of misunderstanding
about women’s concerns at Davidson.”’
She was pleased, however, by the turn-
out at the week's events. Laughlin will
turn over her office to junior Melissa
Jones at the end of Winter term. Students
interested in the WCC should contact
Laughlin or Jones, or attend a meeting
(alternate Mondays at 9:30 p.m. in the
Union).

Diplomat Discusses Foreign Policy

classes, luncheons and discussions at the
Center for Special Studies, and formal
talks on specific topics in foreign policy.

Jack Perry, director of Davidson’s
Dean Rusk Program for International
Studies, joined Saunders Wednesday in
attending a senior political science col-
loquim. Yesterday, Perry, a former am-
bassador to Bulgaria, spoke on U. S.-
Soviet relations at the Center for Special
Studies.

Saunders gave his first presentation
Monday afternoon in the Morrison room,
where he analyzed the forces involved
with the Palestinian question in the Mid-
dle East. Israel, Jordan, Syria and the
Palestinians are the principle players, he
said, adding, “In none will you find a
commitment to a peaceful settlement, in
none a readiness to explore the pos-
sibilities for a peaceful settlement.”

The former diplomat described the
current situation as one predating negoti-
ations, requiring steps designed to create
an environment where negotiations can
take place. The Sadat visit to Jerusalem
in 1973 served such a purpose, he said.

Except for Syria, Saunders said, the
forces involved face a highly destabiliz-
ing situation: “Israel is divided over a
widely fractured spectrum,” regarding
the West Bank and Gaza Strip and the
fate of the more than one million Palesti-
nians living there. This situation, he
said, “is a prescription for political
paralysis.”

King Hussein of Jordan faces a threat
to his rule if Israel drives the Palestinians
out of the occupied lands west of the Jor-
dan river, Palestinians would swell to
two-thirds of Jordan's population.
Meanwhile, the Palestinians are divided
into the Syrian-backed “rejectionist”
camp, which demands access to all of
Palestine, and the camp of Yassar
Arafat, which argues that “a state in a
part of Palestine is better than no state.”

Saunders described the Syrians as
spoilers who “will undermine any settle-
ment of which they are not a part.”

The Wilson Fellow asserted that con-
cessions are needed on all sides if negoti-
ations can succeed and suggested that Is-
rael’s move toward self-autonomy in the

Gaza Strip and the West Bank would be a
good start. Furthermore, he ruled out the
U. S. as a broker in the settlement, as-
serting that, “In my view [it would be] a
bad idea.”

Monday evening in the 900 Room
Saunders discussed foreign policy mak-
ing in Washington, calling it “an in-
tensely human process” which “com-
bines sets of goals with some notion of
the political environment one is going to
have to construct in order to get there.” In
a discussion of crisis management on
Tuesday, the former diplomat contrasted
the business-like attitude of Americans
in seeking a quick, final resolution with
the reality of a situation requiring years,
perhaps decades, to resolve.

Saunders will leave campus today; he
departs Sunday to the Middle East,
where he will spend three weeks re-
searching articles and books which he is
writing. English Professor Frank Bliss.
who served as coordinator for the Wilson
Fellow, said “[each year] people tend to
say this is our most effective visitor to
campus.”
