1
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor: Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Ann Roddey, Production Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager

John Gathings, Editor

Deaf and Dumb

We really appreciate the effort that Security, the Housing Office, and the
Dean of Students Office is making to make Davidson safe from the evils of the
outside world, but somehow this try falls short.

There have been many documented thefts which have caused students to be-
come somewhat more aware of the reality that exists beyond the insular school.

The newly-installed lock system on the three outer dorms may seem like an
easy solution to the problem, but we have our reservations about it.
The following faults have become evident:

First, the four-digit combinations to these locks are readily gotten. The com-
binations are posted in the dorms as well as being spread by word of mouth. We
can conclude the following: anyone who wants the combination can get it.

Second, it may lull some students into a false sense of security, and they may
then become more careless about locking their doors. Also, in the case of a so-
called “incident” a person who is not over-confident in the pieces of metal and
electronics will be better prepared and able to defend themselves.

Third, it is starting to sound as if this is summer camp, where the students are
watched over and not responsible for themselves. One of Davidson’s traditions
is that the students are trusted and respected (i.e., treated like adults), not
guarded by a mother hen.

Fourth, repeatedly being “protected” by the college will evoke a fear of the
outside world in the students. They will support Davidson, The Protectionist So-
ciety, in which the words “‘we” and “they” will become mainstays of their refe-
rential vocabulary.

Fifth, the locks are a bother, albeit a minor one. Students will almost im-
mediately prop the doors open or find some way to prevent the locks from engag-
ing, rendering them impotent (and especially dangerous considering that the stu-
dents believe in their effectiveness).

We are not saying that students should continue to be blind to the occur-
rences of the “outside” world, but that the college should encourage the stu-
dents’ to think and act on their own. The impetus for increased security should
not be imposed by the college, but should come from the students themselves. If
the students are “mature,” they will realize that they need to be responsible for
both their actions and their possessions. After all, locks are provided on indi-
vidual doors within the dorms.

Programs such as the security awareness articles in this publication are an ef-
fective way to educate the students; deaf and dumb locks are not.

f] : ,

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 692-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices loceted on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters tothe editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson,
David Williams ;

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug
Robelen, Chris Sullivan :

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen
Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, David
Williams, Ben Yarborough , .
Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan,
Laure Van Dierdonck

seUD OAM

La S8

1 RTT
ret

Haan

The Davidsonian “Opin-
ions” section is the only forum
on campus for extended com-
mentary on pertinent issues. We
will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest
we. receive from the campus
community.

We ‘adhere’ to
guidelines:

1) We require that all arti-
cles be in our hands at 7 p.m.
Monday.

2) We accépt typed articles
and those written legibly, dou-
ble-spaced.

3) We require that opinions
be_signed. We will print un-

these

en)

Hii

Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TOP SECRET
DAVIDSON SECURITY PLAN

signed articles only if compel-
ling reason exists for withhold-
ing the author’s name, and the
author is known to either the
editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions
for style or content but we re-
serve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will in-
form the author of substantial
changes.

5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve
the right to select artilces from
those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print
any article we withhold from
publication the next week.

The Davidsonian welcomes letter
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these

four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3)We require that letters be signed

tie

and include the author's phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertisements;
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.

