Opinions

The Davidsonian =

| Friday March 29 1985 .

ae eb ES

Commitment Redefined

William Crone
and
Cari Shulman

On page 11 of the College Catalog there is a section en-
titled “Technological Literacy” which explains how David-
son College is finding new ways“ . . . to help all students
acquire an understanding of the interaction of modern tech-
nology with society.” No one can deny that high technol-
ogy surrounds the Davidson campus; it is evident in a vari-
ety of forms ranging from a computer terminal to a Scan-
ning Electron Microscope. It should be obvious that David-
son College is definitely working toward the goal of be-
coming “ . . . a leader among liberal arts colleges in deal-
ing with modern technology.”

Despite these stated goals, there is evidence that the
College is not fully committed to them. For example, dur-
ing Winter Term 1982-83 Davidson installed its new ISI-40
Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) in the basement of
the Dana Science Building. An anonymous benefactor do-
nated $60,000 for its purchase with the intention of de-

veloping technology at Davidson for faculty and student re-
search. Since that time the SEM has provided a unique edu-
cational opportunity. Both biology and physics students
have taken advantage of the SEM, an instrument rarely
available for undergraduate study. Malcolm Campbell '84
used his experience on the SEM to win a Watson Fellow-
ship. Many students have worked with the SEM, and many
more wish to do so. Unfortunately, the SEM sits idle.

The SEM needs maintenance. As with any technologi-
cally advanced instrument, the SEM requires frequent ad-
justments to remain in peak operating condition, and break-
downs are not uncommon. Until now, a service contract
between the College and International Scientific Instru-
ments Company has covered the SEM maintenance. Under
the contract, which can be annually renewed, the Company
agreed to repair the SEM whenever the College requested
at no cost beyond the initial cost of the contract. This ar-
rangement worked well until February of this year when the
two-year coverage included in the purchase price expired.
At present the College has not made any attempt to renew
the contract. Instead, access to the SEM by students, as
well as faculty, has been completely denied. Although
Davidson claims to have a commitment to developing tech-
nology and exposing students to it, one of our most ad-
vanced instruments is being moth-balled by the College.

Davidson College refuses to renew the SEM service
contract—the price necessary to keep up with modern tech-
nology. This frugelness is restricting the learning oppor-
tunities of the students as well as faculty research. The
problem facing the SEM is not isolated to equipment in the
biology department; Davidson possesses a fair amount of
advanced instruments. Wiil these be subjected to the same
treatment as the SEM? If Davidson College is going to ac-
cept gifts in the form of high technological equipment, then
it must assume responsibility for their maintenance. One
can only imagine how the benefactor who gave the SEM
will feel if Davidson is not willing to maintain the equip-
ment he has provided. More importantly, how will other
benefactors view this unwillingness to maintain our tech-
nologically advanced equipment? Our concern represented
by the plight of the SEM centers on Davidson's commit-
ment to, technology. Technology should not be limited to
the Sloan Symposia. Is Davidson fully committed to de-
veloping technology for student and faculty use, or is it
merely committed to owning fancy, in vogue, machines
that do not work?

Crone is a senior biology major and Shulman is a senior
biology.

Religion And Politics In America

Tim Brown

President Reagan stated, “Religion and politics are
necessarily related.” Geraldine Ferraro said, “Reagan's
policies mean he is not a good Christian,” while the ar-
chbishop of New York questioned whether she deserved
the support of fellow Catholics. Mondale was shown leav-

church and state are put at
risk when politicians seek to join

them.

ing church with his family. Before departing in his
limousine, he took time to explain how he grew up in a par-
sonage. At the Democratic National Convention, Jesse
Jackson delivered a speech, a sermon from the pulpit, to

garner democratic votes. Let’s look at the problems result-
ing from the conjunction of religion and politics in Ameri-
ca.

Freedom of speech gives religious leaders the right to
speak for or against governmental issues. It gives politi-

cians the nght to appeal to denominations for votes. How-
ever, church and state are put at risk when politicians seek

to join them. Are people who seek prayer in school the only
true patriots? Should a Catholic politician, or a Jewish
politician, impose his beliefs on others? Religious issues
such as abortion, school prayer and homosexuals’ rights
debase the level of public debate, distract from the political
issues, and needlessly intensify divisions within our soci-
ety. Politicians use religion as a test for loyalty and pat-
riotism. Americans still have freedom of religion. How-
ever, who would choose to be agnostic at risk of seeming
antipatriotic or un-American? Evidently, political officials
feel this pressure themselves.

Dwight D. Eisenhower never joined a church. Only

after becoming president in 1952 did he attend church
weekly. The following quotations are taken from The New
York Times just weeks prior to the 1952 election. It is evi-
dent that Dwight D. Eisenhower felt the need to convey his

Politicians use religion as a test for
loyalty and patriotism.

religiousness to the American pulbic. On September 16,
1952, he explained, “I knew a philosopher who sought the
reason for American Genius. The reason tumed out to be
the Church.” On November 4, 1952, he stated, “The
Church places faith in the hearts of American children. It is
this faith that makes America strong.” With regard to this
second quotation, the reader should note that America was
at war with Korea.

Brown is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C.

The Generation Of Noise

Dx. Karl Plank

We have become a people of noise. Like any communi-
ty, we engage in seasonal rituals of celebration that render
audible our relief at the end of a term’s labor or mark a sig-
nificant turn in our year. That we are a people capable of
celebration gives a sign of vitality and offers a promise of
the interruption of exhausting routine. Yet, as a people of
noise, our rumbling volume far surpasses our occasions of
celebration. Noise has become a way of life. Its crescendo
threatens us with an alienation that would rob us of that fab-
ric of community within which we genuinely encounter
each other and ourselves.

The technological advances in stereophonic equip-
ment, when combined with the onset of spring weather,
point to the most blatant cultivation of noise. Seemingly,
the sheer possibility of noise-making has become justifica-
tion for turning stereo speakers outward and volume knobs
toward their maximum. Not for special occasion, but as a
normal way of life, we fill cmpty spaces with the outward
blare of electric din. Whether mid-day or midnight, mid-
week or week-end, potentially “our hills come alive with
the sound of . . . noise.”

The stereophonic abuse is an acute case in point of a
larger tendency that finds us at odds with moments of still-
ness and silence. We chatter and congregate with a compul-
sive energy, scarcely masking our addiction to social activ-
ity. How strange, at an institution devoted to reflection, to
hear complaints of there being no place quiet enough to

think. How striking to find students forced into flight from
library and dorm to take sanctuary in alcoves outside facul-
ty offices or in the shelter of Chambers’ restrooms. How
distrubing to live in a community where one must struggle
exceptionally to be alone from time to time.

To our detriment we have become used to the noise that
encompasses us—so much so that we have fallen deaf to its

threat. Our issue is not whether we can adjust to noise. but

There exists no real difference be-
tween the act of turning stereo
speakers toward the place of
others . . . and the act of kicking
their door in to demand some at-
tention.

rather should we adjust to its presence? I think that it is im-
perative that we should not “get used to it.” The dangers of
becoming complacent to our own noise are far too great to
be accepted as routine.

The tyranny of noise poses both ethical and spiritual
problems. Ethically, the proliferation of noise wreaks a
violence of sorts and constitutes “auditory aggression.”
Violence occurs whenever a person is forced to respond to
conditions imposed by the will of another. There exists no
real difference between the act of turning stereo speakers
toward the place of others as they seek to go about the busi-
ness of thinking, resting, working, or conversing, and the

act of kicking their door in to demand some attention. Any
difference is of degree, not kind. Noise excludes the free-
dom of the other and, as such, simply must not become our
normal way of life.

The proclivity for noise, moreover, suggests a spiritual
crisis. By this I do not mean something peculiarly religi-
ous, but a crisis in that spirit which shapes the quality of our
personal interaction and well-being. As an act of violence
noise forcefully demands recognition of its maker, but at
the same time it creates a barrier that prevents any other
from drawing near even to recognize or to affirm. The com-
munity of noise is always an artificial community, for with-
in it persons appear to be together, but without the responsi-
bilities and potential of genuine relatedness. Gathered
around the stereo (or the appropriately termed “blaster’) we
tend not to share our selves, only the noisy wall thut sepa-
tates us.

Lastly, behind the barricade of noise we hide most of all
from ourselves. The questions and fears which press us
from within and force us to grapple with our human identity
cannot be banished forever. Eventually the night is theirs
However, these precious inner voices are all too easily di
verted and obscured by the noise around us. lost for the
time being in the most superficial of chatter. The threat is
this: if we cannot really be alone with ourselves. then
neither can we be genuinely related to another. A people of
noise: of what horror are we so afraid that we hide from s1-
lence and solitude, ourselves and each other, to take refuge
in the empty -latter of our own making?

Plank is an assistant professor of Religion.
