Friday, October 18, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The real Davidson experience

Anthony Gristina

It seems to me that many high school students entertain
grave misconceptions of the infamous freshman year at col-
lege. Although this is a very broad conclusion, I feel that it
is especially true at Davidson. Speaking strictly from a
male bias, I was overwhelmed by the stories concerning il-
licit affairs that occurred at the so-called fraternity parties. I
must now laugh at myself when I recall the fantasies I
created about what I would do at these gatherings. Little did
I know that attending these parties is about as contrived as
actually playing a role in one of the numerous affected
movies that Hollywood created about them. From the mo-
ment the house threshold is crossed, the facade appears and
Act I begins. Facade runs into facade, please excuse my
lackadaisical personification, with conversations ranging
from the enormous amount of alcohol consumed to the in-
tensity of last night’s sexual plunder. In all honesty both ac-
tors would learn more about each other by simply making
eye contact and remaining in silence. To avoid the risk of
being labeled a hypocrite, I must admit that I am guilty of
all the crimes mentioned and it must be understood that I
am not attacking the insecure freshman, for I once was one.
These parties must be viewed as a learning experience to be
enjoyed or suffered in moderation and subsequently dis-
missed as you would evolve out of a stage like the shift
from Motley Crue to Mozart. My illustration is only to
point out that the most meaningful experiences of my first
year took place in the privacy and intimacy of my Belk
dorm room and not on the stage of expectation in a frat
house.

To clarify myself further I must state that the Davidson
student was not designed to participate in the typical frater-
nity scene, and that quite simply is why they must assume
an unnatural role at the gathering. Frat parties are designed
to support the mentality of a state school student who goes
to college with ambitions of becoming a bank teller, not the
starved minds of the “intellectually elite” as The Charlotte
Observer labelled us. I know that you now want my opin-
ion of the natural role. The significance of freshman year is
to get to know yourself, because without this knowledge
one can not dream of finding direction. This endeavor is es-
sential at Davidson because most of the students here are of
a complex nature with great potential. Intelligence is a
quality that must be mastered, because if left uncontrolled
or unused it can be more of a hindrance than an asset. A dis-

Should the U.S. get

Aaron Levine

Recently, there has been much talk concerning our
trade deficit, expected to reach $150 billion this year. The
Democrats are talking tough on trade; recently, they pro-
posed a possible 25 percent surcharge from countries, such
as Japan, who have large trade surpluses with the U.S. The
Republicans are countering the Democrats with their own
proposals. The White House is considering asking Con-
gress for $300 million to help U.S. exporters to compete
against foreign countries.

Does this mean that ‘‘free trade” is dead? Has free trade
been discredited? Free trade benefits us in that it allows for
a wider selection of goods, lower prices through competi-
tion, and economic growth. Besides, competition forces us
to be more efficient, better than the other guy.

This is nice talk; however, we need to take a sobering
look at reality. Between 1974 and 1984, for example, the
percentage of imports in the U.S. shoe market has jumped
from 18 percent to 54 percent. In 1984, 60 percent of our
radio/TV market consisted of imports. These are only a
window to a large problem. Something ought to be done.
Do the protectionists have a point?

Free trade is nice, yet it can work only if everybody
“plays by the rules.” Does Japan, for example, abide by the
pious words of “free trade.” The government subsidizes the
domestic machine tool industry, discouraging U.S. im-
ports. How can we compete against this? The Canadian
tariff on wire and cable is three times that of the U.S. John
Culbertson, economist, states that “free trade” is destroy-
ing America’s industrial base and hurting our economic
prospects. We are losing jobs and industry to foreigners.
How can our highly-paid workers compete with those in the
low-wage countries?

used intellect can only lead to depression because you can
not feign contentment to your own person. I have often
heard that the best mirror one could ever have is the face of
a true friend. If this is valid, and I know it is, then the only
way to get to know yourself is through someone else, be-
Cause introspection is always self biased. This bias is an as-
pect of human nature, a kind of emotional self defense. If a
person could view himself through another person’s eyes at
will, the entire world would be in a state of manic depres-
sion. It is the same phenomenon of hearing one’s voice ona
tape recorder. People are vain enough about photographs,
but imagine the impact of seeing a movie of yourself
through a free thinking human lens capable of focusing on
and exaggerating whatever it feels like. Therefore, in order
to become acquainted with yourself one must choose a
small number of honest and varied individuals and an inti-
mate relationship must be formed. It must be developed to a
point that if a comrade exaggerates or is holding something
back, you can sense it from knowledge of his psyche. Hon-
esty is the key because without it we would be at the party
with the facades.Small groups, on the other extreme, tend
to assist truth because there is nothing to hide behind al-
cohol or your sexuality.

I am not attempting to state that self-actualization is
merely a matter of making a few friends. To find yourse-
Iffriends must be probed, and their minds must be dissected
for relevant information. This requires much effort because

G

Frat parties are designed to support the
mentality of a state school student who
goes to college with ambitions of becom-
ing a bank teller, not the starved minds
oh the ‘intellectually elite’ . . .

y,

few people enjoy being too opinionated. When someone
states an opinion, they are opening themselves to attack
from disagreeing views and most people are too self-cen-
tered to want to waste time in an argument that doesn’t con-
cern them. Therefore one’s sources of information have to
be devoted and sincere as well as honest. Dialogue is essen-
tial in the search and with time and numerous verbalized

tough on trade?’

Perhaps some sort of protectionist policy needs to be
put into effect. Only we need to do it wisely. Our govern-
ment wants the foreigners to open up their markets. Why
should they, unless they perceive it as in their best interest?
In fact, they might even respect us for adopting policies
similar to theirs. I am not advocating “creeping socialism,”
government bureaucracy always seems to have a way of
fouling things up.

“

I am not advocating “creeping
socialism;” government bureau-
cracy always seems to have a
way of fouling things up. Yet we
must be pragmatic.

y)

Yet, we must be pragmatic. Look at our failing indus-
tries, those hard-working Americans who are out of work.
Is it in our best interests to let them fall by the wayside? I am
not advocating a “welfare state.” What benefit is there to
allow the productive to be unproductive? Yet, we ought to
help our industries and our workers remain productive.
Once we are more productive, with our trade deficit greatly
reduced, our need of protectonism reduces. This is no time
for either side to be ideological. Free trade is beneficial for
growth; protectionism can get us back on our feet; if we can
prevent ourselves from going off either end, it all may work
out.

Aaron Levine is a sophomore from Roanoke, Va.

sentiments, I am confident that you will begin to see your-
self as you really are, and with this invaluable knowledge
contemplate a future for your new acquaintance, your
“self.” This venture must be a group effort involving your
family and friends because you are relative to society. You
have to judge yourself by some standard, and society calib-
rates the scale unless of course you are schizophrenic and
are relative to yourself.

The process of self-discovery is not insured simply by
following my formula. In some people there is nothing to
discover. I am sad to admit that I have encountered people
who are as superficial as they appear. Other exceptions in-
clude people who are of such timid character that they
wouldn't even contradict themselves. Never admitting that
you are wrong is suicidal to your personality. These people
have no identity because their soul lies in their facade. In
other words they are a shell, hollow like an egg with no
yolk. This is a dangerous form of existence because if their
shell is punctured, it will undoubtedly crumble, because
there is nothing inside to support it. This breed has a cont-
rived personality and thrives at the fraternity parties, be-
cause they are the best actors of us all, capable of reproduc-
ing agty trend. The telltale to this individual is simply that
he is not an individual at all. There will be no consistency to
his character and he will appear to be a series of random im-
itations. Luckily for us, this is a rare breed at Davidson.

I do not pretend that the information I have presented is
some unique revelation, it is merely observation. I have
simply verbalized human nature, because everyone of sub-
stance eventually finds himself. It is simply a matter of
time, and all that I hope to achieve with this article is to ex-
pediate the process. I only hope to spark the concern in the
reader that he might be wasting his time at Davidson if he
considers college a continuous party. College is a person's
last chance to achieve direction because you are capable of
concentration on yourself alone. The student is buffered
from the responsibilities of the outside world, namely
economic. When you have to support yourself, and maybe
a wife if you lacked that much insight, there is no time to
ponder existence with all energy being devoted towards
that after-work beer. Therefore, I highly recommend that
you answer that recurring question of what it is all about
and start preparing yourself for reality, because when col-
lege ends, the part is cast and if you get caught in an un-
natural role you will be chained to the stage forever.

Anthony Gristina is a sophomore from Winston-Salem,
N.C.

3 e @

Government
Information
to You

Information from the
Federal Government on
subjects ranging from
agriculture to zoology is

Depository collection
without charge.

To find one in your
area, contact your local

available at Depository library or write to the
Libraries across the Federal Depository
nation. Library Program, Office

of the Public Printer,
Washington, DC 20401.

You can visit these
libraries and use the

Federal Depository

