DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 13

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 25, 1985

SPE’s Proposed Court Move Gets Cold Response

By DAVID McGEE
Support is weak across campus for
Sigma Phi Epsilon’s request before the
CCRL (Council on Campus and Religi-
ous Life) to open a social fraternity house
on Patterson Court. The CCRL Monday
postponed making a final decision on

SPE’s proposal to allow campus groups ~

to express their opinions on the matter.

This week, nearly every house on the
Court voted overwhelmingly against
SPE moving onto campus as a social
fraternity, which would not serve meals.

SPE proposed returning to the Court
after the Davdson Board of Adjustors last
May denied the fraternity special use
zoning of its house at 409 N. Main St.

In addition, the SGA Senate Tuesday
voted 0-22 against allowing SPE to re-
turn as a social fraterntiy.

SPE, according to the CCRL, has
other options, however. The CCRL may
approve SPE opening on campus as a so-
cial fraternity with the provision that it
would serve meals within a specified
time period.

Should the CCRL let SPE return as a
social house, it will likely establish pro-
visions for future groups that would want
to open a social house on Patterson
Court.

The CCRL has voted 9-3 in favor of
allowing social houses to operate on the
court in principle. Specifically, this deci-
sion means that a social house could op-
erate under the principles of Patterson
Court, outlined by the CCRL.

These principles include: teaching
good management skills, providing a
dining alternative to the Commons, and

By BO TAYLOE

A current affairs panel of senior of-
ficers from the U. S. Army War Col-
lege in Carlisle, Penn. visited David-
son Tuesday, attended classes, and
participated in a series of informal dis-
cussions. The five students of the col-
lege and their faculty moderator are
giving their program at 36 colleges and
universities and aim to stimulate and
participate in dialogue on national se-
curity issues.

LTC Jack McGuinness discusses U.S. military policy with stude

Panel Discusses Policies

nts

War College faculty member and
moderator Colonel David G. Hansen
introduced panel members to students
and faculty in the 900 Room Tuesday
evening before a question and answer
period. “We like to think of ourselves
as college students and faculty talking
to other students and faculty,” he said,
adding that the panel “was not defend-
ing the policies of this or any other ad-
ministration.”

(continued on page 4)

Police Search

By ROSS HOLT

Police are still seeking a suspect in
the alleged rape in Little dormitory two
weekends ago.

According to town police Chief Jack
Warlick, investigators are working to
narrow a list of suspects. He said police
had questioned the suspects, some twice,
and had interviewed the victim again.

Warlick said the victim could not
identify the alleged attacker, but she
thinks he is a student. Police have also

\

Steve MacMillan
other social options, offering a location
for campus social groups and small-
group eating, establishing campus
groups that students can identify with as

ee

Peggy Pierotti

alumni, and providing a source of jobs on
campus.

SPE president Steve MacMillan be-
lieves a social fraternity would add
another alternative to Davidson's social
life. About the apparent negative reac-
tion to his fraternity’s proposal, MacMil-
lan said “A vast majority of the people |
have spoken with are in favor of it.” He
criticized the way SPE’s proposal was
presented this week before Court houses.
“They never heard our side of the story. |
certainly was never invited to come talk
toany house ... .

“You're still playing special-interset
group politics. The fraternities on cam-
pus are going to oppose us,” he said.
MacMillan said SPE would probably not
consider other alternatives to operating a

(continued on page 4)

Group Seeks New All-
Women’s Eating House

By LEE WHITE

“Things. are-really. moving fast,” said
sophomore Connie Clark about her ef-
forts to form a new all-women’s eating
house on Patterson Court. Clark and
freshman Cameron Chalmers are head-
ing up plans to establish another eating
house on campus.

Clark said 43 freshmen women have
signed a list expressing their interest in
the proposed house. Counting up
perclassmen, she said, supporters of a
new all-women’s eating house probably
have 60 signatures all together.

According to Clark, efforts to form a
new house began after Christmas break.
Clark met with Dean of Students Will
Terry and said she felt that he was “pretty
enthusiastic” about a new all-women’s
eating house.

She is now writing a proposal that
Terry will bring before the Council on
Campus and Religious Life (CCRL)
when it meets Monday.

Terry said he told Clark he could
make “no promises” about whether or
not the CCRL would approve the propo-
sal. One concern, however, which he
will raise at the CCRL meeting, is how a
new house would affect the viability of
Rusk and Warner Hall.

Clark said many freshmen women
who want to join an all- women’s eating

house are concerned that they will be put
on the waiting list at Rusk or Warner
Hall. She said there is a need for a third
all-women’'s house. Clark maintains that
a third house would not create rivalry,
but would add more diversity to Patter
son Court. It would also give women a
third option if they wanted to join an all
women’s house, she said

“There is definitely a trend this year
to all-women’s houses,” she said. Clark
said she is conducting a survey among
freshman women to determine their pre
ference of a co-ed or all-women’s cating
house. She said the results will be avail-
able Monday and will be included in the
proposal.

Meetings were held last Monday and
Thursday for those interested inthe pro-
posed house. Clark said over S50 potential
members attended yesterday's meeting,
most had not expressed prior interest in
the house.

Clark said those interested in the new
house will choose a name for the house
by Monday and include it in theif propo-
sal. She said former Davidson President
Samuel Spencer and a female College
Trustee are possibilities for the house's
name. She hopes to have the new house
included on the Patterson Court list for
Self-Selection.

(continued on page 4)

For Suspect; RAPE Sets Up Student Patrol

speculated that the attacker was a student
because he seemed unafraid of being
seen in the dorm and because he “‘seem-
ingly knew his way around,” Warlick
said. He emphasized, however, that any
assumptions along these lines are only
speculation.

Warlick said police have received in-
formation concerning a blue baseball cap
the alleged attacker wore. “We have had
some reports of people who wear hats of
a similar nature,” he said. Warlick said

the alleged attacker also wore an army-
type fatigue jacket, though one not
necessarily of military issue.

The victim, a 20-year-old sopho-
more, had attended a party before the
Jan. 12 attack, according to the town
police report. She returned to her room
and talked with her roomate before going
to bed about 3 a.m. She awoke during the
attack, though her roomate did not, ac-
cording to the report. The victim went to
Charlotte Memorial Hospital for a phys-

ical examination and County police be-
came involved.

Meanwhile, the Davidson RAPE
committee has set up a student-run group
to patrol areas where students travel dur-
ing late night and early morning hours.

During dorm meetings this week,
RAPE committee members, SGA Secu-
rity Committee members, and Davidson
Emergency Rescue Service (DERS) per-
sonnel reiterated self-protection tips and

(continued on page 4)
