4 Friday, January 18, 1985/The Davidsonian

Davidson Students Work To Help Poor In Charlotte

By BO TAYLOE

Charlotte traditionally has offered
Davidson students’ respite from
academics. But last December, the
largest city in the Carolinas saw two con-
tingents from Davidson bypass its malls,
restaurants, and bars to work in projects
helping the inner-city poor.

Twenty-two students participated in
an Awareness Weekend sponsored by
the Chapel Committee, whose goal, ac-
cording to Chaplain Charlie Summers,
was to make students “aware of some of
the problems faced by the low-income
people in inner-city Charlotte, aware of
the connection between Christian faith
and service, and aware of different kinds
of Christian ministries taking place in
inner-city Charlotte.”

Another 20 students, organized by
The Un-Fellowship traveled to Charlotte
to winterize low-income housing.

Christ the King Center in Charlotte’s
Optimist Park served as a base of opera-
tions for the Awareness Weekend. Stu-
dents divided into four teams working in
a soup kitchen, a food bank, a ¢lothes

2

closet run by the Crisis Assistance Minis-
try and a housing renovation project
called Habitat for Humanity. The Habitat
for Humanity project .renovates houses
across the country and sells them at no in-
terest to low-income families. Revenues
from sales are devoted to other housing
projects.

In the afternoon, the Davidson volun-
teers split into pairs to visit homes in the
Optimist Park community and do chores.
A lot of wood had to be cut, explained
junior Dee Reynolds, “because so many
of these families depend on wood for
heat.” Students found a warm receptive-
ness in the people of Optimist Park.

“I saw how appreciative people are
who don’t have that much, how open and
thankful, compared to us who seem to
lose gratitude the more we have,” senior
Dan Lindsey said. Summers said per-
sonal contact stood as a major goal of the
weekend.

As head of Christ the King Center,
Episcopal minister Richard Banks hosted
the Awareness Weekend and shared with
students some of his ideas of inner-city

ministry. Looking back on his expecta-
tions for the weekend, Banks said he had
wanted the students to gain “a deeper un-

_ derstanding of what poverty is like, what

it looks like, what it smells and feels like.

“Another aspect,” he added, “was
that a lot of the people in this community
had to give to them. There was giving
and receiving on both sides. We weren’t
sure who was the greatest receiver.”
Summers stressed the weekend as an
educational experience. “There was not a
paternalistic overtone of, ‘we’re here to
do you a favor,’ ” he said, “learning took
precedence over work.”

The Awareness Weekend officially
concluded after students joined in a Sun-
day morning worship service at Christ
the King Center, but four volunteers re-
turned one weekend to continue working
on a Habitat for Humanity project. Eric
Ogden said, “it doesn’t really hit you
how much better off we are . . . you find
out you’re kind of callous to that.”

Winterizing homes in the same Char-
lotte neighborhood, as Ogden did, were
six teams of students organizd by the Un-

Fellowship. Lindsey, who returned after
the Awareness Weekend to coordinate
the effort, said each team tackled two
houses from a list of low-income families
provided by the Charlotte Area Fund.

Supplied with insulating kits by the
United Way, the students stretched plas-
tic sheets over windows and lined doors
with rubber sheets over windows and
lined doors with rubber strips.

“I don’t think there are enough op-
portunities to do things that have nothing
to do with the campus or getting a job,”
senior Anne Miano said. “It’s not the
kind of thing you can write down on a re-
sumé that you achieved in college, but
it’s the kind of thing you'll remember.
It’s practical application with this grow-
ing that you’re supposed to be doing.

“The most important thing was that
someone was coming in who didn’t have
to.” Explaining the group’s motivation, —
Lindsey said, “One important emphasis
of Christian fellowship should be ser-
vice. We were happy to have the oppor-
tunity to serve the community and to
reach out to students at Davidson.”

Reported Rape Raises Campus Awareness, Concern

(continued from page 1)

tions and communicauon. “The mixture
of changing roles, identity crises, al-
cohol, immaturity, or certain flashes of
immaturity, the desire to be accepted,
and the inability of some people to com-
municate very often how they feel, all of
these things together will create a diffi-
cult situation.”

Ross described the difficulty of ad-
vising women on campus to take precau-
tions against rape without exaggerating
its danger. “I don’t want people to be
hysterical,” she said. But she com-
plained of the failure of many women to
take quite normal precautions such as
their locking doors at night.

“They want as much freedom as pos-
sible,” she said. “Suggestions we make
suggest limited freedom.”

Ross said she believes the adminis-
tration must place greater emphasis than
in the past on issues such as rape because
students expect administrators to be
more involved in these areas than was the
case 10 or 15 years ago. “All we can do is
be aware that we are now more called on
to be involved. Students do expect us to
be involved.”

The current attention being paid to
rape at Davidson she believes, is due to a
nationwide focus on the problem on col-
lege campuses. Davidson participated in
a national study on rape among colleges
selected at random before Thanksgiv-
ing.

Members of Davidson’s RAPE Com-
mittee met last Saturday with the Direc-
tor of the Charlotte Rape Crisis Center

OCCRL To Decide On Proposal

(continued from page 1)

having “two houses” on the Court — the
Commons and a social fraternity house.

Yesterday the PCC voted 12-0 in
favor of allowing SPE to have a Court
house if it serves meals. In another vote,
the PCC voted O-11-1 against SPE
operating only a social fraternity on the
Court.

Simpson will take the PCC’s decision
to the CCRL next Monday; the CCRL
will consider SPE’s proposal in greater
detail and may make a final decision
then.

“The purpose of Patterson Court is at
stake here,” Simpson said. SPE’s propo-
sal, he said, clashes with the Court's
traditional nature. “It could be a good
thing — what people may want.” He said
the CCRL will establish “who can oper-
ate social houses, if they are allowed on
the Court, . . . and who will select the
groups and under what criteria.”

Simpson emphasized that the PCC is
concerned that allowing a social frater-
nity on campus would throw off “the
unity and equitable balance of the houses
on the court.”

Ultimately, Simpson said, students
determine the future of Patterson Court,
and the preference for small-group din-
ing may be changing to social houses that
would require less commitment.

SPE president Steve MacMillan said
his fraternity’s proposal “represents a
positive step a liberal arts institution

should offer. Patterson Court should pro-
vide certain alternatives and options, and
I feel we will offer an alternative.”

“We are moving our physical loca-
tion, but not our eating arrangements,”
MacMillan said.

SPE, he said, is giving up the advan-
tage of not. abiding by the rules of self-
selection if it moves to Patterson Court.
He feels that the Court would be the “best
location to operate’a social facility... .
The Commons has provided a better op-
portunity for small-group dining.” That
SPE’s proposal would threaten Patterson
Court, MacMillan said, “I think they’re
using that as an excuse to keep us off.”

Rape

(continued from page |)
ficers, sources said.

Warlick said both town and county
police forces have jurisdiction in the
case, and are cooperating in the investi-
gation. The county police have a “border
to border jurisdiction” in Mecklenburg
County, according to Warlick, but gen-
erally relinquish it in incorporated areas
to local police forces.

Davidson’s RAPE Committee has
been directed to instruct victims to notify
county police in cases of rape.

Students can reach town police at
892-5131, and county police at 336-
2347.

and the Charlotte Assistant District At-
torney in charge of rape cases, where
committee members learned rape crisis
and counseling techniques and the legal
definition of rape in North Carolina.

North Carolina defines rape in two
degrees, according to Miano. First de-
gree rape involves one or more assailants
and a serious injury or life-threatening
situation, or a child under 13 violated by
any number of assailants. Second degree
rape involves any other circumstance
when a women is forced to have sex
against her will.

“Admittedly, the laws in North
Carolina are not as liberal as they should
be, not as progressive,” she said. But she
noted the advanced methods used by
police in rape investigations and more
sensitive attitudes toward rape victims
than in the past.

One point stressed by Miano and
others is the options open to rape victims
at Davidson. One is to press criminal
charges and pursue the matter legally.
The second is to pursue the matter
through the College Code of Responsi-
bility system.

A third option is to restict the matter
to counseling for the viciim and possibly
the assailant. According to Ross, the
fourth option is not to say anything about
the incident. “That’s the choice many

women make, but I don’t think that’s the
healthy way.”

Many campus leaders identified
educating the campus population as the
most effective deterrent against rape.
Women 'sConcerns Committee Chairper-
son Elizabeth Laughlin noted a “ten-
dency, especially on the part of men to
say there isn’t a problem, that we’re just
creating one.” The Women’s Concerns
Committee held a rape seminar Jan. 10
which showed a healthy attendance and
response according to Laughlin. But the
subject is still not fully acknowledged,”
she said.

Miano said men need to become
more familiar with the definition of rape.
“Guys need to start learning when she
says no, it’s no, and when you press it
any further, you’re moving closer toward

”

rape.

Many observers described the al-
leged rape last week as generating con-
cern about the issue of rape at Davidson,
and how to prevent it. According to
Housing Director Bill Bolding, “It’s un-
fortunate that we have to have such a
situation as this” to focus attention on se-
curity issues. According to Miano, “It’s
unfortunate that the incident occurred,
but because it has, maybe more people
will be aware of what rape is.”

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men
and women who are interested in serving boys and girls
ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedi-
\ cate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
S child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized ac-
tivities. College students, teachers, and coaches should
apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast
of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
N specializing i in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swim-
§ ming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on
the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, rif-

\ lery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water
canoeing and tripping are extras in our excellent pro-
gram. For further information write or call G. William
Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50,
Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

