Sports Preview

Friday, September 13, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Menss Soccer Team Battles Tough Schedule And Injuries

By ANDY BARRON

Though Davidson’s soccer team had a
mediocre 9-9-1 record last season, the team
was not mediocre. Last year the Wildcats
returned a host of talented upperclassmen
and brought in yet another ‘superb set of
freshmen. So, you ask, why was the team 9-
9-1?

Unfortunately, the Cats had a tough
schedule. How tough? Duke, North
Carolina State, Wake Forest, South
Carolina, Georgia State and national cham-
pion Clemson were included on Davidson’s
out-of-conference agenda. Add a challeng-
ing Southern Conference season and sud-
denly 9-9-1 doesn’t look so bad.

This season is similar to last year in
many ways. Powerful teams once again fill
the schedule and, though graduation robbed
Davidson of many fine players, Davidson
still has plenty of talent. Does this mean
another .500 season?

Davidson’s first three games made .500
look appealing. Richmond bombed David-
son 4-0 and then William and Mary added

insult to injury by winning 3-0. Wake
Forest continued the trend by beating
Davidson 1-0.

“I knew going into the season that we
had three extremely tough road games to
start off with,” said coach Charlie Slagle.
“To tell the truth, 1-2 was what I’d hoped
we would be after those games. Yet a tough
out-of-conference schedule is good for the
program. Our goals are always to win the
conference and make the best possible ef-
fort to make the NCAA tournament. By
playing tough teams we allow ourselves a

chance to make the NCAA’s and get the..

best possible preparation for the conference
race.”

Davidson returns three All-Conference
selections from last year’s squad. Seniors
Wallis Goodman and Tony Cabrales and
sophomore Jim Kelly will be the leaders as
Davidson tries to return the Southern Con-
ference title game after last year’s near
miss.

“Goodman, Cabrales and Kelly all need
to have All-Conference years again for us to

be successful,” Slagle said. “We also need
for our sophomores to mature and have
some key players return from injuries.”

- It will be Cabrales’s task to help David-
son put more points on the board. Last
year’s attack lacked consistency and often
failed to put away important goals. Cab-
rales will be aided by seniors Sean Austin
and Sean Goudie as well as juniors Brian
Shockley and Carter Grine. If sophomore
Craig Mattison can overcome knee prob-
lems, the offense could get an additional
boost.

Sophomore maturity is crucial in the
midfield area. Gone is All-Conference mid-
fielder Mike Lufkin. The midfield leader
will be senior Bill Coxhead. Aiding
Coxhead are sophomores Steve Ott and
Andy Clarke. Due to injuries Goodman,
often a midfielder, has been moved to the
back line. :

The defense has been hurt by both
graduation and injury. David Flowers and
Jim Wright have moved from the backline
to the sideline as assistant coaches. Junior

Sean Moser’s season- ending injury has
also hurt. If that wasn’t enough, junior
Chris Jones continues to suffer the effects of
last year’s season-ending shoulder separa-
tion.

Yet all is not lost. Goodman has been
moved back to help the defense. Goalie
Kelly is possibly the team’s strongest
player. Add junior Steve Stith and sopho-
mores Mike Spears and Joe Moss and you
get a talented and improving defense.

Appalachian State will once again be a
difficult obstacle for Davidson to overcome
on the road to the conference title game. If
Davidson manages to reach the champion-
ship match, more than likely they will meet
Furman, the team to beat according to
Slagle. Yet the talent is there to win the con-
ference title.

The Cats play at home this weekend in
the United Carolina Bank/Davidson tourna-
ment. It will be at this tournament that
Davidson’s new soccer field is unveiled.
Davidson starts conference play September
25 at Appalachian State.

Football Team Sports News Offense Under Gatto

By MIKE ADAMS
Those of you who have watched David-
son’s football team over the last few sea-
sons will notice a drastic change in the
Wildcats’ offensive scheme.

» Davidson attempted 55 passes against
Western Carolina in their 13-0 loss on
Saturday. Really? This is not the brand of
“three-yards-in-a-cloud-of-dust” Wildcat

football we have grown to know. Head
Coach Vic Gatto promises more of the
same, “From a fan’s standpoint we’ ll be fun
to watch.”

Offensively, the Cats will live or die by

Punter Jay Poag

the forward pass. Gatto says that the 55 at-
tempts on Saturday may become the norm
for the season.

Leading this aerial attack is junior quar-
terback Steve Bradley. He returns as the
most productive passer from last year’s
squad. His principle targets are junior tight
end Mike Jones and senior wingback Jay
Poag.

The Davidson “Multiple” offense will
remain one-dimensional — almost entirely
passing — until the return of senior run-
ning-back Horace Manor. Manor seriously
injured his arm in the summer and is waiting

pson / Blueprint

for medical approval to play. Gatto assesses
Manor’s ability as “Unbelievable” and calls
him one of the best I-AA backs he has seen.
He should provide a much- needed ground
attack to a team that rushed for only 20
yards in the season opener.

The offensive line played well in Satur-
day’s game. Led by senior captain Lou
Krempel at center, the Cats front five al-
lowed only 2 sacks. Continued good pass
blocking will be essential for Davidson's
high-flying offense.

The Wildcat defense will show oppo-
nents a variety of sets. The only consistent
feature, according to Gatto, will be a four
deep secondary.

The anchor of the Davidson defense is
junior defensive end Marcus Allen. He is a
pre-season IAA All-American and has great
strength and quickness.

The defensive line has three linemen
with starting experience in senior tackle
Andy Macary, junior tackle Charles Show-
ers and sophomore noseguard Emmanuel

£ Burch. Gatto says that Burch has returned
® from the summer “in the best shape of his
= life.”

The defensive backfield is hurt by the

has mononucleosis. He led the team in tack-
les last year with 71 and was a defensive
leader. ony Smith, a senior cornerback,
has taken over some leadership in the defen-
sive backfield and had a great game on
Saturday with 11 tackles and an intercep-
tion.

The punting duties will be handled by
Jay Poag who ripped a 70 yarder against
Western Carolina. Senior Bob Carr returns
with two years of experience to handle the
kick-offs and the place kicking. His only
kick-off on Saturday was not returned.

The Wildcat football team promises a
new and exciting look this season, but wins
might be hard to come by. There is a real
lack of depth at every position. With no re-
cruiting taking place last year due to the
coaching change, there is no immediate
help from the freshmen. This lack of depth
may cause problems as the year progresses
if there are many injuries.

The Wildcats also have a very tough
schedule, especially in October when they
play four teams with combined 1984 re-
cords of 29-13. Most opponents are going
to be bigger and stronger than Davidson and
a lot will depend on the arm of Steve Brad-

absence of junior safety Gary Stewart who ley.
1985 Soccer Schedule 14 Roanoke | p.m. 12 European Cross Country
17 atSalem 4p.m. Championships
Sept. 4 atRichmond 3p.m. 20 Pfeiffer 4p.m. at Davidson
7 at William & Mary 2p.m. 23. at Catawba 4p.m. 17 Raleigh State Meet
11 at Wake Forest Sp.m. 30 —_ at High Point Nov. S. Conf. Championship
14-15 Davidson/UCB Tournament Oct. 2 at Wake Forest 4p.m. at Charleston, SC (M)
20 Duke 4p.m. 5 atPfeiffer Il a.m. 16 NCAA REgion Ul
25 at Appalachian State Tp.m. 8 Duke 4:30 p.m. at Greenville, SC —
28 —atErskine 3p.m. 10 atRadford 4p.m. 23 NAIA National Championship
Oct. 2 +VMI 3:30 16 Appalachian State 4p.m. at Kenosha, WI (M/W)
5 Furman 11:30a.m. 22. Catawba 4p.m. 30 NCAANational Championship
7 UNCC 3:30 p.m. 25-27 Deep South Tournament at Davidson TBA at Milwaukee, WI
13 Georgia State 2 p.m. 29 Salem 3:30 p.m.
15 N.C. State 3:30 p.m. 31 high Point 3:30 p.m
19 Marshall 11:30a.m. 1985 Football Schedule
23. at South Carolina 4p.m. 1985 Cross Country Schedule .
25 at Marshall 7:30 p.m. Sept 7 Western Carolina 2p.m.
27 ~— at VMI 2p.m. Sept. 14 Duke, Wake Forest, 14 Gardner-Webb 1:30 p.m.
30 Pfeiffer 3p.m. DePaul —at 21 at Bucknell 7:0 p.m.
Nov. 2 Appalachian State 1:30 Winston-Salem (M/W) 23 atNewberry 7:30 p.m.
9 — §.Conf. Championship 21 Lynchburg, Campbell, Emory Oct 5 Furman 1:30 p.m.
at N. Div. Champion at Lynchburg, VA (M/W) 12 at The Citadel Tp.m.
28 Appalachian State, Furman, 19 Pennsylvania 2p.m.
1985 Field Hockey Schedule Wester Carolina, Citadel 26 at James Madison 1:30 p.m.
at Charleston, SC (M) Nov 2 at Wofford 2:30 p.m.
Sept. 12. Wake Forest 4p.m. Oct. 5 NAIA District 26 Championships 9 West Virginia Tech 1:30 p.m
13. atU. of South Sp.m. at Pembroke, NC (M/W) 16 Catawba 1:30p.m.

