10
D NI " A
THE AVIDSO AN Hipan Ut)
, Iai al:
John Gathings, Editor Kevin Horan, Executive Editor ae ul
Will Thomason, Business Manager " Li mu + ‘a
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Barron, Sports Editor | Scott McKinney, Arts and Entertainment Editor

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Be Careful

The recent campus thefts should suffice to remind stu-
dents of the outside world’s proximity to the perceived
idylic safe area of Davidson College. Such an optimistic
conception is a frail one at best because it blissfully ig-
nores the threat of outside intrusion. It is also a dangerous
conception in that it prompts a false sense of security,
shattered all too quickly (and too late) when valuables are
lost.

Because of faith in the unique effectiveness of the
honor code, students become careless in matters of every-
day affairs. Doors are left unlocked and often open; valu-
ables are left out and within easy reach. However the
honor code itself is not faulted. The error comes in student
assumptions that because the College seems “isolat
the honor code suffices for protection.

It does not, however, and neither does the campus
police force. They are restricted to patrols, which means
they (obviously) cannot be in all places at all times. Stu-
dents need to become aware of their role in preventing
crime at Davidson. A passive reliance on any one code or
body is limited; only the student can be positive that his
property is secured while unattended.

How does the newly-enlightened student take action?
With the same tips that have been emphasized repeatedly.
Students should lock their doors and belongings (such as
bicycles). Also, take the initiative to report suspicious
persons on the grounds and in the dorms to Campus Police
(-5131). The police are anxious to work directly with the
students in stopping campus crime.

i hi il mr
it nf Hitag
i " MN

‘

\-

|
| |

(Ht!
TR
\

= “war |

WE'RE ON THE SCENE WITH DAVIDSON
COLLEGE SECURITY AT THE UNION CAFE, -
WHERE RECENTLY, AN UGLY CRIME

ee i NS a AN
; hi | ‘id CAN you TELL US, SIR N WELL ov ee LET'S j

MMI EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED?,

Friday, September 20, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

after
eee TTT pptteeesety Up Ub tg te

JUST SAY SOME- |
ONE Took THEIR |
CHIPS AND DRINK

BEFORE THEIR GRILL
ORDER WAS READY.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
, pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Richard Cloudt, Keity Finch, Aaron Levine,
Andrea Gross, Dave Williams

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Laura Ballenger, Bill Bugg, Martha Johnson, Matt Mor-
ris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams,

Sports Staff: Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Ken Jones, John Reuter

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles
Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Beth Drummond, Kris-
tin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Kris Kost, Pauline Rhodes, Kim Robertson,
‘David Soud, Margart White, Ben Yarbrough. Compositors: Anne Lambert, Ann Roddey

Letters

Elections

To the Editors:

Elections are fast approaching! Signups
for the elections of fréshmen class senators
began at 9 a.m. on Tuesday, September 17
in the Dean of Students’ Office. Three
freshmen senators will be elected with the
highest vote getter being named class presi-
dent. Belk dorm residents will elect three
senators — two freshmen and one up-
perclassman. All other dorms will elect one
resident each as their dorm senator (Note:
Carnagie residents are considered at Little
Dorm residents and may run for and vote for
Little Dorm senator). In addition, three off-
campus senators will be elected. These
three senators will be elected from and by
any non-dosm resident (either perimeter
houses or elsewhere). Signups for these
elections will end promptly at 5 p.m. on
Tuesday, September 24. Each candidate is
required to sign the signup sheet for his/her
race as well as READ and SIGN a candi-
date’s declaration form. At 5 p.m. on Tues-
day, September 24, there will be a MAN-
DATORY candidates’ meeting in the Morri-
son Room of the Union (but please let the

aerobics class finish before you take over -

the Morrison Room). At this meeting we
will discuss campaign regulations and elec-
tion procedures. Note that failure to attend
this candidates’ meeting will result in dis-
qualification unless the candidate follows
the instructions explained on the candi-

| date’s declaration form. We encourage all

people interested in being a part of the SGA
Senate to run for a senatorial position this
term.

There will not be a $5 filing fee for this
election. All camaign expenses will be the
candidate’s responsibility — including all
Xerox costs. Any questions concerning fil-
ing and election procedures may be directed
to one of the following members of the
Elections Council:

Mickey McDonald (chairman)
Holly Gaston

Mary Be Haas

Robert Kennedy

Patrick Lail

Ideals

To the Editors:

I was certainly pleased to see the gener-
ous coverage of the Class of 1989 which ap-
peared in The Charlotte Observer on Sep-
tember 11, 1985. It is encouraging to know
that the newest students at Davidson are as
outstanding a group as their predecessors. I
want, however, to emphasize the responsi-
bility that is inherent in such excellence.

While it is true that Davidson is an in-
stitution of high standards and exceptional
quality, that fact alone is not newsworthy.
The real story is how we use our educations.
If, by the Davidson model, we assume high
standards and exceptional quality in our
life’s work and for the lives of others, that is
news.

President Kuykendall and the faculty
embody and promote this ideal in their
work. I hope that the Class of 1989 (and all
others) will not rest too comfortably on the
advantages Davidson offers, and will take
seriously the responsibilities that_accom-
pany such a unique educational experience.
