Opinions

The Davidsonian
Thursday, December 12, 1985

Existence is just another extended metaphor

Anthony Gristina

As I was sitting in my Art History class on a typical
Wednesday morning, I was suddenly overwhelmed with a
lugubrious sense of futility. The source of this discomfort
was not immediately nor directly apparent. It was a subtle
almost subconscious ache that seemed to have originated
not out of the setting, which in its day-to-day monotony had
been dismissed into the irrelevant, but rather it was pro-
voked from a drastic attitude change. For the first time in
my life I was appreciating the simple concept of learning.
Of course throughout my previous academic career I had
deluded myself with notions of being an intellectual, but
my satisfaction and victory were felt only after I had re-
ceived the grade, the label, the misconception, the “A” no
doubt. However, this view was now discarded like so many
other superficial and sophomoric attitudes of my youth.
Maturity had led me to believe that learning was an end in
itself and not a hedonistic mean. Art for Art was my conclu-
sion, but ironically with this revelation there was discom-
fort. 1 was becoming a true aesthete, but with this new per-
spective of life involving the cult of knowledge I realized
one limitation which previously had been so overlooked, so
far away, and now so real. Death was my enemy, mortality
my foe. Existence was a race with time because the goal
that I had set for myself had no limits and therefore satisfac-
tion became a word whose meaning will elude me for the

rest of my life. The satisfaction does not include the non-in-
tellectual pleasures of life which admittedly I do indulge in,
but their numbing powers are diminishing. My quest for
this transcendental satisfaction has forced me to rationalize
my fear of death, an endeavor that I have procrastinated
since being introduced to it.

The fear of death while present in everyone, is more
acute in the true intellectual because with death comes the
sense of loss as well as incompleteness. A person whose
goal is wealth only loses his money at death provided that
he lacks the spiritual essence to maintain his hedonistic at-
titude throughout his life. Those people in search of the in-
tangible facets of life possessed with the insatiable desire
for knowledge find themselves in their old age begging for
more time to complete what indirectly is their own selves.
It is not hard to see why man created the concept of the af-
terlife or God for that matter because few people can accept
death as an end point, a termination. God is a personifica-
tion of man’s desire for immortality, more specifically per-
petual experience and consequent learning, and therefore
an answer to the inevitable, but not a logical one. The after-
life may take the D out of death, but it is the easy way out.
The true student of knowledge considers death to be the
simple end, a fade into black. Imagine sitting in your room
and suddenly you are blinded, then your hearing escapes
you and subsequently you lose all your senses. With no in-
puts, there can be no outputs, and you cease to think in this
state of permanent amnesia. Certainly Descartes would
agree that the converse is valid, I don’t think, therefore I am

not. The only pain involved with death is the anticipation of
it and the loneliness of those you leave behind. ‘“Therefore
never send to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee”
as our metaphysical friend Jon Donne so articulately con-
cluded. .

It requires a complex mentality to conceive of non-exis-
tence, but once it is accepted the fear of death becomes a
tool to explore with, rather than an issue to be avoided and
buffered with faith. Although life may appear futile from
this view, one must realize that the significance of life is
what you contribute to the society that fate erases you from.
Your presence may be perpetuated in your children, your
students, or your profession and therefore even though
your space in society is blank in appearance it is seething
with emotions, which are immortal. Even though satisfac-
tion is as obscure as perfection, partial fulfillment can be
achieved through one’s contributions to society. The indi-
vidual must integrate the desire to perfect himself with a
philanthropic goal. Once death asserts itself, it makes no
personal difference what you have done. I am only suggest-
ing ways to give yourself value during your life time.
Leaming and the progressive immortality of your ideas are
the only real purpose of the redundant ambiguity com-
monly known as human existence. I must warn the reader
that this view is subject to change and modification because
at age 19 I do not pretend to hold the meaning of life in my
naive and relatively ignorant mind. I am just beginning.

Gristina is a sophomore from Winston Salem, N.C.

God, superstition and the Black Mamba

Ellen Oerter

Black mamba, quickest poisonous snake in the world.

The name sends shivers down one’s spine. Beady eyes,
willing to bite.
_, A black mamba was found in the shower the day I ar-
rived in Shimba Hills, Kenya. The people of that area live
constantly in danger of encountering such a snake. Even in-
side the danger still exists because mud walls and palm leaf
roofs don’t keep the snakes out.

The people of the region all seem to believe in God. He
varies in description and often plays no part in their lives,
but doubt in the existence of God is rarely or never ex-
pressed.

Why do we Americans so frequently doubt the exis-
tence of God when these people do not? I have a
hypothesis.

When comparing the Kenyan and American cultures,
the life of most Kenyans is much more greatly influenced
by its natural surroundings. The amount of rain often di-

Just Words

rectly regulates water supply. Sunshine determines how
much food there is to eat out of the garden. Lizards and
bugs, and sometimes safari ants, freely enter and exit the
house. As the people traverse the countryside on foot, vari-
ous creatures and wonderful flowers are spotted. The
hypothesis which I have formed is that God’s existence is
plain to people of this lifestyle as a result of their close in-
volvement with nature, and they recognize-it as His crea-
tion.

In our American culture we cover the ground with as-
phalt, block out the sky with roofs and the trees with walls
which belong to the building in which we spend the major-
ity of our time. We buy our food dead at the supermarket.
We change the weather within our homes and then travel in
four-wheeled isolation whenever we venture out. Some-
times we notice the squirrels and birds, but it is rare that
they ever come close enough to involve us, The second part
of my hypothesis is that it is possible to block out the evi-
dence that God exists. Americans have done this structur-
ally in many places, and therefore commonly doubt the
existence of God.

The blocks we build have some side effects. We be-
come proud to have control. With music available in almost
every situation, we are in control of the sounds around us.
With antiperspirant, we control the amount we sweat. Fast
transportation allows quick change of environment. Mod-
ern construction equipment creates quick change of scen-
ery. We feel safe. We are proud to have made ourselves se-
cure. Part three of my hypothesis is that this pride in being
able to control our environment inhibits the admission of
what God himself has done.

Certainly, we Americans have safety from the black
mamba. It is thousands of miles away and it will not strike
us. As we become increasingly isolated from the beauty,
impressiveness and potential danger of nature, however, it
would be wise to consider that while we can deny God, we
probably cannot isolate ourselves from him.

I invite you to attend [VCF's seminar entitled: “Exa-
mining the Evidence: Promises Fulfilled by the Messiah"
beginning Jan. 16 to hear and discuss the Biblical account
of God's involvement with humankind.

e Buckley stops here...

Timothy Brown

November 24, 1985. What did it bring to you? The be-
} ginning of a holiday much needed, much deserved; the in-
cipience of Christmas hustle and bustle; or just a normal
Sunday spent with loved ones all enjoying relaxation,
letharginess. What did it bring to William F. Buckley? His
turning 60. Yup! it’s hard to believe. And as James J. Kil-
patrick remarks, “Given his zest for life, he ought to be
good for 60 more.”

With the 30th anniversary of “National Review” early
this month, as soon as Will sees off his well-wishes he'll
again hear niceties about his contributions and his attri-
butes. What contributions? and What attributes?

Granted Barry Goldwater, Ronald Reagan, Russell
Kirk, George Will and all their likes have helped promote
conservative philosophy. But no voice has been as likely as

Will’s — expressed through his magazine, lectures, twenty

or more books, columns, and “Firing Line.”

He is a fine sailor, pilot, navigator, a fine shot with a
pistol, a harpsichord player (preferring to strum away to
Bach), and arguably the finest catch-as-catch-can debater.
Anything worth reading he’s read and remembered. A fine
humorist: he once admitted the only, reason he wrote for
“Playboy” was so that he might conimunicate with his son
—- then 17. And above all he’s a fine writer, stylist (this at-
tribute of his I admire most). And oh what prolifigacy.

Though seemingly a demigod(?) he has his faults. (1)
His logic, let's face it, is sometimes not the best. He re-
cently opined a uniform tax rate is equitable to the poor —
without taking into account that the poor man’s satisfaction
decreases more when his dollar is taxed away than does a
rich man’s when his is taxed.

In another article he argued for a balanced budget
amendment. Did he mention that one can’t legislate good
behavior? Explain how it would be enforced or that it might
make fiscal policy procyclical and unstabilizing? Nah . . .

(2) His peacock vocabulary of unfamiliar words. Thess
beauties, belonging to sesquipedalion lexicology, | found
in two of his articles chosen at random: hebdomodal, lac.
hrymose, prolifigacy. And Will, Why do you use these
words. His reply: Well... everyone ought to be ac-
quainted with “prolifigacy” at some time or other. An ok-
idea — until the reader finds himself spending so much
time in the Oxford English Dictionary as he does in Will's
writ.

Last summer Will was arguing away with a liberal
ideologue on the tube. And before the commercial break.
Will quipped to Ted Koppel, Ted, you'd better make this
commercial a quickie so that my elderly companion (he
was 65) might not fall asleep.

To aman with character of such sheer gale force. | send
my belated birthday wish. [ do hope you enjoyed your natal
day, and I do hope you enjoy your five years before you are
65, too!
