THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor

Kevin Horan, Associate Editor Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors Andy Barron, Sports Editor

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
David Maynard, Circulation Manager

John Gathings, Editor

Incidents

There has been some speculation around campus concerning an an-
nouncement posted by Dean of Students Will Terry which told of two re-
cent “incidents” involving Davidson female students. The flyer warned
the students to lock their doors at night and to report any suspicious per-
sons roaming about the halls.

®The announcement is a good idea in that it warns the Davidson com-
munity about the possibility of molestation or rape. It is also good that
the students are informed about crimes on campus. The students, in fact,
have a right to know about the details of such incidents. However, The
Dean of Students Office (with questionable wisdom) decided not to in-
clude important specific details. The language of the flyer is vague. It
starts by saying, ““T'wo incidents have occurred recently, once again indi-
cating the need for women to be careful of their safety.”

The announcement fails to mention that a first-degree sexual assault
and first-degree burglaries have been committed by some (to quote
again) “non-college person(s).” It also fails to point out that the young
ladies’ rooms were entered while they were present.

We understand that victims of such crimes need to be protected and
anonymous, so we do not advocate naming the victims or giving the lo-
cation of the crimes. We believe that rumors created by the ambiguous
language of the flyer would be more damaging to the victims than the re-
lease of more specific information.

Not only was the flyer incomplete, but Terry was reluctant to provide
additional information when interviewed. Davidson College Police
Chief Jackie Hughes refused to say anything about the incidents. Most of
the hard facts printed in the front page article of this issue came from the
Davidson Town Police.

The lack of specificity within the flyer has also caused a degree of an-
xiety amongst some students because rumors tend to blow things out of
proportion. Using scare tactics is the wrong way to educate the commu-
nity about the very real possibilities of burglary and/or molestation. Very
clear and precise information about the offenses is easier to deal with
than overblown rumors.

In the future, the administration should consider the ramifications of
not giving the whole truth. All that we can do is to hope that no one has
been hurt by the rumors which have spread because of the lack of specific
information.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, Richard Cloudt, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams
Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Bill Bugg, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen
Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben
Yarborough.

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dier-
donck

pe
\ rn ie

‘Gy

Friday, October 18, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

»

Cs As Coy

\\
a Sw» JZ
WSR <

Little Switzerland

To The Editor:

I have just returned from a weekend in
Little Switzerland, which left me question-
ing the judgment of some Davidson offi-
cials. As some students are aware, David-
son College owns a lodge — The Wildcat
Den — in Little Switzerland, a small town
in the Blue Ridge mountains. It was given
to the college by an alumnus as a retreat
center. Recently it was determined that the
cost of upkeep was too great to justify its re-
tention, and the Wildcat Den was put on the
market with a $250,000 price tag.

I would like to refute these claims of ex-
pense. But let me first describe the house.
The three floors of the Den comfortably
accommodate around thirty people, provid-
ing all but food. A large porch extends
along the front of the house, affording a
clear mountain view. The design of the Den
is suitable for a large variety of occasions.

Any Davidson College group that regis-
ters with the Housing Office may use the
Den. This includes clubs and societies,
classes, eating houses, retreats, and any
other Davidson-affiliated group. (No reser-
vations are being taken now because of the
attempt to sell the Den.) A minimal fee per
night is required, along with obvious depar-
ture clean-up.

So why is the Den on the market? Sev-
eral reasons were given me by Robert Cur-
rie of the Business Office. The first is cost
of maintenance, including the fuel and elec-
tricity bills. (The Den is closed in winter be-
cause of the cost of heating.) Also distance,
as Little Switzerland is more-than two hours
from Davidson’s campus. Finally, with its
winter closing and summer vacation, the
Den is only in use for half the year. That is a
short time to justify year-round mainte-
nance.

I believe the benefits of such a retreat
center much outweigh these obstacles, and,
furthermore, the solutions are relatively
simple. As far as cost of maintenance is
concerned, the price to use the Den could be
raised slightly. Groups visiting could be re-

quired to complete one task — thorough
cleaning or painting of a room, the repair of
a piece of furniture, the chopping of wood
or some other necessary job.

Distance I do not believe is a problem.
Many groups travel to the Blue Ridge or
other distant spots from the campus every
term. Consider, besides, the difficulty of
finding an adequate house in another area.
It would have to be large enough for retreats
of many sizes, and affordable enough to be
purchased with the money from the sale of
the Wildcat Den. Mountain property is
quite expensive these days, and scarce as
well. We cannot expect another generous
alumnus to pop up a more desirable distance
away with another suitable house anytime
soon.

As for the amount of time the Den is
used, I believe it can be increased profita-
bly. During the school year, the Den has al-
ways been quickly booked for the
weekends. I recommend offering its use to
church groups and other organizations dur-
ing the summer months. This would bring
In more money, more workers and put the
place to more use. If one was deemed nec-
essary, the job of summer caretaker would
be a perfect one for many students.

It occurs to me that many students have
never even heard of Little Switzerland and
most do not know of the plans for the sale of
the Den. I believe many groups around
campus would be willing to help maintain
the Wildcat Den, possibly through raising
funds. I suggest those responsible for its
sale (Trustees, I believe), visit it them-
selves. —

To justify my position, however, proof
of support must be presented. A petition is
currently being circulated to gauge the des-
ire of Davidson students to retain the Den.
This is not for protest, but merely an affir-
mation of student support. | urge everyone
who recognizes the value of the Wildcat
Den as a college facility to sign this petition
and help save Little Switzerland!

Linda Tatsapaugh
