pinions

The Davidsonian

Friday, October 18, 1985

Front-page caricatures: one Rusk member’s reply

Heidi Hooker

Granted, it is funny when people approach you and in-
quire when the next Rusk semi-formal rumble will be held.
What’s not amusing is that the comment is based on the
front page article from last week’s issue, which not only
blew things out of proportion but almost fictionalized
them. What The Davidsonian printed for the purpose of ac-
curate news coverage of the Rusk event is entirely ques-
tionable. David Williams’ article was as out of line as the
editing which allowed it to be presented on the front page.
Speaking as a social member of Rusk and a regular reader
of the paper, I have a few things to say in response.

The article started off badly enough. Very few girls
would have described their evening as a nightmare, even a
small one. The event was a complication and a lot of dirty
work for those girls who had to take responsibility for the
consquences of foolish individual behavior. But the am-
biguity of Williams’ lead and his unfounded generalization
was surely a misrepresentation with disasterous implica-
tions. So let’s look his hyperbole face to face. First off,
party damages are nothing new to the social scene; second,
Rusk is hardly the first house to have held a “wild” (dare I
say?) party.

The aspect that made the semi-formal at Rusk different
than other parties in the past was that it was held on campus
at Dean of Students Will Terry's suggestion. What Rusk
decided and attempted to do is commendable. The house
made an effort to confront D. W. I. problems and alleviate
them. Generally speaking, the home-based location was
not abused. Paintings were carefully watched and barten-
ders were sensitive towards the consumption of liquor. (I
speak as one of them.) In one case even, a bartender chose

to lock up liquor in his/her car to inhibit further consump-
tion. Rusk honestly made worthy efforts to regulate party
behavior.

My greatest concern here is that Rusk should not be
singled out in condemnation or even representation of stu-
dents’ irresponsibility with drinking. I agree that Dean
Terry’s decision not to offer the gallery for house parties
again based on this experience is justified. However, I
think it was in poor taste to point the finger in the article at
Rusk with a comment like “evidently the Rusk formal is not
a sedate affair.” Let’s be realistic. Rusk parties are not
alone or unique in manifesting student abuse of alcohol.

I also object to the reporting approach of the article.
Though not at the party, Williams makes the nebulous anal-
ysis that the party progressed from “excellent” to a “small
nightmare.” Williams does not reveal in his article that he
did anything more than research the superficial details from
offical reports. Now this would have been fine if he were to
have presented an objective point of view in the article. But
he jumped in too deep without opening his eyes. Although
Williams does represent Rusk’s view in quotes from Lisa
McNeilly, Rusk House president, and Fran Houck, Rusk
Social Chairman, he downplays these comments ip his arti-
cle by starting out and finishing the article on “anti-Rusk”
notes. The article did not need to put Rusk on the defense
and the school officials on the attack. There were coopera-
tive rapports between the two concerning the event and its
consequences.

Had Williams interviewed even a selection of individu-
als who were present at the party or “the women of Rusk
House” to discover what they witnessed, were impressed
by, and judged from the events, I doubt he could have writ-
ten an article worthy of front page attention. The issue was
blown way out of proportion thanks to poor news coverage
and reporting contacts. Williams had also told McNeilly,
as a condition for her interview for his article, that the arti-

cle would not be on the front page but on the third or fourth
pages. What a slap in the face come Friday. McNeilly said
that she would not have been so ready to talk to him, having
known that. She hoped the article would help clear things
up for campus news’ sake in a subtle way and not roar on
about it.

I also have to bring into question what kind of newspa-
per would choose to cover its entire front page with an arti-
cle concerning no major college event and pertaining only
to a small fraction of the campus. My impression from
reading just the headlines was that I had picked up a copy of
The National Enquirer or Campus Gossip Today by acci-
dent. The article makes the party seem like a campus riot,
especially by giving it the full front page. For a lot of the
Rusk girls it was quite embarassing to see the school paper
magnify their semi-formal to such campus-wide attention
and to see in print a caricature of their fall-term dance. I
also wonder what parents and alumni imagine seeing such
an issue made over a party and seeing a newspaper select
such an issue for its focus. Now that is a shame.

In the meantime I do not know what affair will be next
to conquer the entire front page, but I certainly hope that the
paper will not choose to spotlight and personally assess
campus items that have little significance or effect beyond
the fact that, yes, they happened and are regretted. It is not
right for our editors to ignore or not differentiate what are
truly newsworthy events on campus and resort to reserving
the front page for portrayal of social mishaps in exagger-
ated form. It certainly increases the number of readers but
perpetuates an introverted perspective from students and
reflects a provincial school outlook to others. It’s easy to
inflate such issues of party problems in a small isolated
school environment. But let’s make an effort not to cover
our front page with them; that is really quite embarrassing.

Hooker is a sophomore from Baltimore, Md.

Should a sexual assault be publicized?

Melissa McLemore

The Davidson Rape Crisis Center began a year ago in
response to some very important needs. We felt strongly
about having a place for victims of past or present sexual
assault to go to for counselling and referral. We were also
aware of the necessity for more awareness on campus about
sexual assault and for educational programs that teach what
sexual assault is and how to possibly prevent it. In the past
year the Davidson Rape Crisis Center has made several
changes in structure but not in our goals or our beliefs. One
of our basic convictions is a rape victim’s right to privacy

Can you call

Tim Brown

The posse, after tying their F-14’s to the post outside
the courthouse, after giving them water and hay, brings in
the men whom they intercepted at the pass, in Sicily.

You readers are the jury. The four outlaws from the
PLO before you seized the cruise ship Achille Lauro. They
identified twelve U.S. citizens and forced them to lie on the
deck in the hot sun for hours. They made women hold live
grenades, pins removed. They hit a woman with a rifle
butt, and shuffled U.S. passports to determine whom they
would kill first. Leon Klinghoffer, 69, a man restricted by
paralysis to a wheel chair, received the unlucky hand. The
defense seeks to establish that its clients ought not be held
responsible for their actions. The prosecution fervently op-
posed, the case continues.

The statements made here by the defense are actual
Statements made by Mohammed Abu Abbas in defense of
the four terrorists. Defense: Mr. Klinghoffer did bite the
hand of one of my (four) clients. My clients were defending
themselves. And besides, he overreacted to being pushed
into the water.

Prosecution: The right side of his body was completely

and confidentiality. To me it seems obvious that someone
who has just gone through the trauma of sexual assault in
which every personal dignity has been stripped away does
not need her or his name or incident spread all over campus
to be judged and criticized by the general population. Yet
from the many questions that I and my co-volunteers get
asked, this basic human right to privacy must not be as ob-
vious as J thought. Rarely a day goes by when someone
doesn’t ask me, “How many people were raped today,” or
even inquire for details of a particular rumor. We have been
criticized for not answering these questions or publishing
details. Many feel scare tactics are the only way to con-
vince Davidson students to exercise caution and use com-

this justice?

paralyzed years earlier by a stroke. Mr. Klinghoffer could
not swim.

Defense: Your Honor, we do have a character witness,
Mr. Abbas [Is this a man of character? An outlaw, a PLO
extremist.], who is the guardian of these four. Mr. Abbas
pleads, Honor, forgive my men for they know not what
they do. I sent them “to launch a suicide mission” in Israel
—— not to seize the ship, “not to threaten the lives of passen-
gers.”

Prosecution: To Israel, you say? By Jove, you need a
map and a compass.

Defense: Your Honor, jury members, at last we can
come to agree . . . that these four men ought be allowed to
live. These are family men. (The lynch mob and town
preacher yell out — Lynch them!)

Prosecution: Are you speaking of the same four men
who were sent on a suicide mission to Israel, before losing
their way?

Defense: I am.

Prosecution: Then I rest my case — your Honor. After
hearing the case, you jury members are relieved: that you
will be able to arrive at a unanimous decision, with time
still left for homecoming escapades.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opinions
editor of The Davidsonian.

monsense security measures. I strongly disagree. Yes, I be-
lieve the campus needs to be made aware of the problem of
sexual assault, but this can be done in ways that do not sac-
rifice someone’s privacy and right to confidentiality. Some
of the ways we are trying to increase awareness is through
basic public education through articles and pamphlets; we
are also planning to have national experts come and speak
at Davidson about sexual assault. We have encouraged
RA’s and Hall counselors to speak to their dorms about se-
curity and we have provided them information sheets. To-
ward answering specific questions about sexual assault on
the Davidson campus, we, in conjunction with the
Women’s Concerns Committee, will be sponsoring a sur-
vey on Sexual Assault and its frequency. We, as a group,
will not give out haphazard numbers or statistics simply to
scare people into locking their doors. The survey offers an
anonymous and non-threatening way to report incidents. If
the Davidson students take the survey seriously, I can then
come back with some serious answers to questions and with
the numbers that everyone asks for.

I also applaud the Dean’s Office for issuing a campus-
wide memo, reporting that two incidents have happened re-
cently and warning students to extra caution. I feel this is
effective, honest, and yet unthreatening to a victim.

The Davidson Rape Crisis Center can only provide the
awareness information. It is up to the students to take it
seriously and take responsibility for their own safety. There
is no 100 percent sure way of preventing sexual assault or
any other type of criminal victimization, but students can
decrease the probability of assault. There are pamphlets
available through the Rape Crisis Center or Campus Secu-
rity, and we are also working on updating those. I also in-
vite anyone with questions to come to our meetings, every
other Monday at 5 p.m. in the Big Screen Room. (Next
meeting October 21). We do not discuss specific cases dur-
ing these open meetings, but we do discuss business, edu-
cational programming, and address questions from group
members or students about campus issues.

I challenge students to ask questions, and to take re-
sponsibility for educating themselves not only about sexual
assault but also about personal security in general.

McLemore, Director of Davidson Rape Crisis Center, is a
junior from Asheville, North Carolina.
