4 Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian

Ambiguities Of Self-Selection Draw Student Fire

(continued from page !)

system.”
An upperclass fraternity member

said, “The situation as it exists now is not
completely honest; the bid system is
under there.” A former fraternity mem-
ber said, “I like the idea of being able to
choose where you want to eat based on
who you want to be with, but [self selec-
tion] is being used to the point that it’s
being abused.”

Some students have complained that
the system is not straightforward and
honest with freshmen. One pledge said
freshmen are disillusioned after discov-
ering the system is not one of total self
selection. “There’s a great deal of selec-
tion,” he said.

An upperclassman said, the system
“needs modification; there’s a lot of gray
about what an oral discouragement is.”
Another fraternity member added,
“There is an implied discouragement
which is just as demeaning as not getting
a bid through the greek system.”

Self-selection Committee member
John Hackett said the system is “not
helping anyone out. It’s now working as
a bid system.” He said the College
“should change the system. We have to
recognize what's going on, and stop call-
ing it self selection.”

Some students find the system more
agreeable if students are aware of how it
really operates. On fraternity member
said, “There’s nothing majorly wrong
with it because most people do know
how it is. For those who don’t know, it’s
wrong.” Another added, “There’s noth-
ing wrong with a bid system if they know

the way it is.”

Terry said, “There are always people
who have complained about the system.
I’m not implying that some of them are
not just.” He said he is always willing to
work with students concerning the issue,
and “my intention is to eliminate hurt as
much as possible, at the same time keep-
ing the fraternities as honest as possible
in eliminating hurt” and preserving
house cohesiveness. “If the self-selec-
tion system can work toward these ends,
it can be a very good [one].”

Hackett said the Self-selection Com-
mittee “is not winning. I’m trying to up-
hold the self-selection system but the
same violations are [coming up}, and the
fraternities are picking who they want.
They’re calling all the shots.”

“Essentially it’s a bid system,” Hac-
kett said. If a freshman is treated [inap-
propriately], he can go to the Committee.
He said under the present system,
“freshmen have to do the same things as
they do under the greek system” to get
into a fraternity.

Hackett said “the College wants the
fraternities to have Christian values and
the self-selection process gives freshmen
some protection. It prevents [fraternities]
from telling them ‘you’re a good guy or
you’re a bad guy'” He says it follows the
theory that ‘If you’re good enough to get
into Davidson, you’re good enough for
any of the fraternities.”

“The frat system is different,” Hac-
kett explained. Each fraternity has differ-
ent qualities and a different composition
and each feels it is the best, he said.

Hackett said if it gets to the point
where the Committee “is trying cases,
we have failed. I’d like to have a situa-
tion where freshmen come to us to work
it [a problem] out before a case is neces-
sary.” He said the Committee needs ac-
tive members to provide continuity and
strength and who want the Committee to
be effective in working with freshmen
and fraternities.

He said for the present system to be
effective, Davidson would “need a legal
environment,” includin trict list of
offenses and safctifns. However, he
said, “I’m not in fdr of a strict legal
sense either, becau8€ you have to have
freshmen standing up” to the fraternities
for the system to work.

Hackett said he was personally “in-
different to going to a strict Self-Selec-
tion system or going to a bid system, but
we should go somewhere.” He added, “I
want it to be more explicit about where
we’re going. And more explicit about
setting down rules.” He is opposed to
having three-day rush periods, as some
schools have, and does not favor keeping
the same system Davidson has now and
simply changing the name.

There is no unanimity in the sugges-
tions for change. One pledge recom-
mended “keeping the same schedule for
rushing and pledging but calling it a bid
system.” An anonymous fraternity mem-
ber thought the school “should bring in
more fraternities and ultimately go back
to the greek bid system.” '

A senior fraternity member recom-
mended allocating the first four weeks of

school for freshmen to get to know
people on campus well. The bids would
go out the sixth week and by the seventh
week, freshmen would make a decision.
“By prolonging the selection date,
you’re prolonging agony. The spring
term would be the pledge term, but
freshmen would have winter term off to
work on grades and to help the school.”

Terry said he has no specific changes
to suggest now, but he plans to keep op-
tions open. He added, “the likelihood of
going strictly to bids is remote.” He said
the Self-Selection Committee is gener-
ally educating freshmen in the same way
it did last year.

“Educating the freshmen about how
to use the system is one of the most diffi-
cult things we try to do.” He said, “a lot
of people just don’t listen when the Com-
mittee comes around. Their feeling of the
relevance of what’s being said differs
from person to person.” Terry said
freshmen “often feel as if ‘it doesn’t
apply to me.’ Then when it does apply —
there’s nobody there to say it.”

The Committee takes on a new role
during Self-Selection week. Terry said.
“If a person does select a house,” which
did not encourage him, “the house ts not
to go talk to the person. It is supposed to
go to the Committee “so as not to involve
the individual and the house ina fallout.”

Terry said “the Committee can often
counsel the freshmen about the most
expedient way for him to operate and
also counsel the house for the best way
they can operate often for the mutual
satisfaction of both parties.”

Student Is No Longer A Suspect In Rape Case

By DAVID VAN PELT

Complaints and questions surround
the police investigation of an alleged
rape which was reported to have hap-
pened Jan. 12 on campus.

In a Davidsonian “Opinions” article
published this week, junior Joe Johnson
claimed ‘indiscretion on the part of the
Davidson police.” Johnson charged that
in investigating the rape, Davidson
police failed “for approximately five
days” to check the alibi of senior Jay
Gaither, a suspect in the case, and that
police chief Jack Warlick suggested
Gaither be removed from the SGA Com-
mittee on Campus Security during the in-

vestigation.

Gaither said he is no longer a suspect
in the case.

According to Gaither, police con-
tacted him on the Thursday following the
alleged incident after a fraternity party.
Gaither said police officers received re-
ports that he was wearing a cap similar to
that supposedly worn by the assailant,
and went to the party asking for him by
name. He then received a call from
police, and went to the security building
where county officers questioned him
and took a statement.

Gaither said county investigators
‘“‘weren’t unpleasant or insinuating any-

thing.” He said he was not upset by the
questioning. “I felt that it should have

Administrator Dies

(continued from page |)

North Carolina and Georgia. He began
his church career in the Albemarle Pre-
sbytery by serving the Hollywood and
Chicod Presbyterian Churches in Green-
ville, N. C. He also served Greensboro’s
Buffalo Presbyterian Church, the Col-
umbia Presbyterian Church in Decatur,
Ga., the First Presbyterian Church in
Columbus, Ga., and Macon’s Trinity
Presbyterian Church.

A native of Augusta, Ga., Willin-
gham was active in the Mecklenburg Pre-
sbytery of the Presbyterian Church
(USA) and the Council for the Advance-
ment and Support of Education (CASE).
At Davidson, he was responsible for the
Davidson Annual Fund, which nearly tri-
pled in size during his six years with the
College. In addition, Willingham was
serving as interim pastor at St. Andrews
Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

Willingham is survived by his
mother, Mary Elizabeth Zealy Cato, of
Augusta; wife, Bettie Ann Rowland Wil-
lingham of Columbus; sons, Edward L.
Willingham IV of Raleigh, Albert D.

Willingham of Madison, N. C., John
Mark Willingham of Princeton, N. J.,
and Robert D. Willingham who is cur-
rently a student at Davidson; and daugh-
ter, Martha Zealy Willingham Flowers
of Abbebille, S. C., and four grandsons.

Services were held at 4 p.m. last
Wednesday at the First Presbyterian
Church in Columbus. Interment took
place in Columbus. The Striffler-Hamby
Mortuary in Columbus held all arrange-
ments.

Memorials may be made to Davidson
College.

New House

(continued from page !)

the women’s houses. Brooks said the
houses would probably have to “try har-
der to sell a good image.” Woo said the
good relationship between Rusk and
Warner Hall shows that all-women’s
houses do not have to have a competitive
relationship.

been the last I heard of it.”

He said he next became involved in
the investigation the following Tuesday,
when SGA Security Committee Chair-
man Carroll Overton informed him that
he had spoken with Warlick, who
suggested that the suspect in the investi-
gation be removed from the Security
Committee escort service. According to
Overton, Warlick did not initially name
Gaither, an SGA senator, but that War-
lick confirmed when Overton asked if he
was referring to Gaither.

Though Warlick never directly stated
that Gaither be removed from the escort
service, “he pretty much implied it,”
Overton said. Warlick’s suggestion and
complaints from students on campus
caused him to suggest that Gaither quit
the service, which has since dissolved.
Gaither still remains on the SGA Secu-
rity Committee.

According to Gaither, Warlick’s sug-
gestion marked a “‘defamation of charac-
ter.” He felt that because no criminal
charges had been brought against him,
removal from the service was unwar-
ranted.

Though Warlick said he talked with a
member of the RAPE Committee, advis-
ing the committee to take proper proce-
dure to screen all students serving as es-

corts. He would not confirm that he
talked to Overton.

Warlick also said Davidson Town
Police have not questioned Gaither.
“We're not actively pursuing the investi-
gation,” he said. Mecklenburg County
officers, he said, have investigated the
case since they were called on the night
of the incident. Gaither said he called
home Jan. 22, the day of his resignation
from the SGA escort service, and disco-
vered that police had not checked his
alibi for the weekend of the rape.

Gaither told police he had spent the
weekend with a friend in Greensboro,
N. C., and at his home in Newton, N. C.
Gaither said police did not check these
alibis until four or five days later. County
investigating officers could not be
reached for comment.

Police treatment, Gaither said,
“dramatized the situation a little in my
own mind. I felt a little more sensitive
than I should have.” Gaither said he has
received several “nasty comments” from
students about the incident. “People look
at me strangely, and give me a hard time
on occasion.” Gaither said his father told
him Wednesday, after speaking to his
lawyer, that police no longer consider
him a suspect.

A defense

There is evidence that diet and
cancer are related. Follow these
modifications in your daily diet to
reduce chances of getting cancer.
1. Eat more high-fiber foods such
as fruits and vegetables and whole-
grain cereals.

2. Include dark green and deep
yellow fruits and vegetables rich in
vitamins A and C.

3. Include cabbage, broccoli,
brussels sprouts, kohlrabi and

cooked up in your kitchen.

cancer can be

cauliflower.
4. Be moderate in consumption

of salt-cured, smoked and nitrite-
cured foods.

5. Cut down on total fat intake
rom animal sources and fats and
oils.

6. Avoid obesity.

7. Be moderate in consumption
of alcoholic beverages.

No one faces cancer alone.

