Features

Let’s Active gives variety-filled performance

By ANDY BALL
“Let’s Active. Hmmm. Just another
R.E.M. clone, right? After all, the same
guy did produce them didn’t he?”
Well, the answer is yes and no. Singer-
guitarist Mitch Easter did produce the ever-
populas group from Athens, Georgia, but
t’s Active’s performance in the 900
Room Friday night convinced a lot of
people (myself included) that you don’t al-
ways have to have a nasal voice or a clean
sounding guitar to keep a roomful of college
students happy. .

Preconceptions die hard, though. From,

their first song, “Blue Line,” (originally
done by Outskirts in 1981), I thought I had
this band pegged. A great opening song,
“Blue Line” has all the characteristics of an
R.E.M. tune: sustained guitar chords, crea-

tive transitions and two-part vocal har-
monies that don’t conform to traditional in-
tervals.

I had-‘myself convinced until about mid-
way through their sixth song when guitarist
Angela Carlson ripped into a bluesy solo
that left all notions of undistorted guitars in
the dirt. Not to be outdone, Easter intro-
duced one of their later tunes with a rush of

' feedback that would have made even the

most dedicated metal-head blush. From
then on, Let’s Active kept me guessing. I fi-
nally gave up trying to fit the band into a
mold and just listened.

The most inspired performance of the
evening came from drummer Rob Ladd.
His heavy downbeats never once failed to
keep the near-capacity crowd on its feet. I
was particularly impressed by his tasteful

use of the ride cymbal as a complement to
the rest of the band rather than a crutch to
carry him through most of the songs.

Impressive performances also came
from bassist Faye Hunter and keyboardist-
guitarist Carlson. Both provided a solid
background for Let’s Active’s music al-
though Carlson’s keyboard seemed at times
to be added as an afterthought rather than as
a central instrument.

The real focus of the band of course was
frontman Mitch Easter. Throwing in quips
about Bryan Adams and other assorted
music newsmakers, he led the band through
a nearly flawless performance of twenty
songs. The only problem existed in some
unintentional feedback probably resulting
from the position of the amplifiers or the

Davidson native shares needlecraft skills

By NELLE McCORKLE

After a day teaching beginners to “knit
one, purl one,” helping more advanced stu-
dents put together sweaters, writing pat-
terns, keeping records for her two stores
and advising customers about yarn selec-
tion. Despite this hectic pace, Elaine
McArm, part owner of the Needlecraft Cen-
ter, still insisted after work, “I’ve been
wanting to knit all day.” Besides knitting
during off-hours, McArn maintains a veget-
able garden, reads, walks, bicycles, and
hikes.

McArm and her partner, Peggy McCon-
nell, have operated their needlework busi-

ness since 1971. “We're probably the only
business that has moved four times on Main
Street [from the rear of the Village Store to
Duke Power’s present building back to the
Village Store to the firm’s location since
1971 in the house adjoining the M & M
Soda Shop).”’ Before becoming a partner in
the business, McArm worked under then-
owner Pat Trexler.

In 1980, McArn and McConnell opened
a Statesville branch of the Needlecraft Cen-
ter because “there was an existing shop
available and we had lots of Statesville cus-
tomers already.” With a staff of three di-

John Reuter

vided between the two, McArm works at the
Statesville branch at least once during each
six-day week.

Calling her business “a full-service
needlework shop,” McAm offers classes in
all levels of needlepoint, knitting, cross-
stitch and crewel embroidery, and linen
work. During winter term she will teach
knitting through the Student Union Short
Course program.

McArn designs many of the sweaters
which fill the shop’s front room; one of her
most recent projects won Best of Show in
the 1985 Southeastern Yarncrafters’ Guild
national competition. Also executed by
McArn, the geometric sweater incorporates
cotton, linen, angora, ribbon and acrylic.

Of her winning design, she said, “The
night before my vacation, I threw every
skein of white and ecru yarn in the shop that
I liked in my knitting bag. After I started
knitting in the back seat of the car on the
way to Florida, I finally decided I had to
write a pattern because I had gotten to the
point where I had to rip out — it had caught
up with me.”

Another McArn design on display in the
shop indicates her ingenuity: the sweater is
“one of the first knitted sideways,” with
rows running vertically.

McArn learned to knit while a student at
the Woman's College, now University of
North Carolina at Greensboro. She, like her
husband, is a Davidson native; they now

mix of the microphones. Whatever the

problem was, it didn’t seem to bother the
band or the audience very much.

Let’s Active played encores after two
rather unconvincing and unnecessary exits.
They performed two powerful originals
from their albums Cypress and Afoot,
“Waters Part” and “Leader of Men.” A sur-
prise ending came when, according to Eas-
ter, they proved how “cool” they were by
rolling through an excellent rendition of
Cream’s “Sunshine of Your Love.” Crowd
reaction which had previously belied ‘the
band’s talent, picked up to finally give the
band the applause they had been looking
for. Let’s Active’s short time in the 900
Room obviously gave the audience what it
had been looking for as well.

live in his grandfather's home several miles
from Davidson.

President of the Davidson Merchants’
Association, McArn said: “My observation
is that if the students choose to be friendly
with the merchants in town, it's very easy
for them to do so. The merchants really ap-
preciate it. Students bring a lot of life into
anything.”

McArn calls learning to teach “a
gradual process’-involving attending work-
shops and schools. Besides teaching in
Davidson and Statesville, she has taught
courses at Callaway Gardens. As a student
at the Needlework School of the Danish
Handicraft Guild in Copenhagen, McArn
met the Queen Mother. she recalls, “I knew
it was my only chance to see royalty, and
when we all curtsied, | came down on my
desk top.”

Back in Davidson, “One day a lady
called me on the phone and told me she had
not gotten the yarn she was using from us,”
McArn said. “She said she was embarras
sed to ask for help, but said her knitting pat-
tern said she could not knit any more until
December |. I said," You know the abbrevi-
ation for decrease is Dec.’ There was a long
pause, and she said, ‘I am so glad you do
not know who | am. '

“Five minutes later, the phone rang
again. The person (another caller) said, ‘do
you have any of the mean stitchery?” I said,
‘Do you mean crewel embroidery?”

Undefeated team wins College Bowl championship

By MARK CHEN

The Davidson 1985 College Bowl
Championship has been won by (and this is
the only time you'll see the whole damn
name) James, James, Morrison, Morrison,
Wetherby, George Dupree.

The team ended the playoffs unbeaten,
clinching the title with a victory over the
winner of a match at 7 p.m. Monday in the
900 Room. Jim’s Mom Was a Queenie and
Universal Solvent fought in this match;
Jim’s Mom took an early lead in the first
half with the aggressive play of Keith Finch
and Andy Thompson. Solvent, led by Dud-
ley Bell and Ted Davis, counterattacked in
the second half to win with 220 points to
Jim’s Mom’s 110.

Universal Solvent advanced to the final
match at 7:30 p.m. against JIMMWGD.
Solvent had its whole team present for the
finals: Dudley Bell, Ted Davis, Dan Gar-

lington, Buddy Martin and Liz Relyea. JJ
brought Amy Blackstock, Stuart Cooper,
Lucy Everett, Anne Lambert and Karl
Lorenz.

Solvent had to win the first match, for
then both teams would have been tied at one
loss apiece. The tie would have meant a sec-
ond match to determine the champion. But
it was not to be. Everyone on JJ played well
as they racked up a score of 195 to 15. Sol-
vent rallied in the second half but JJ kept up
its strong performance, ending the game
365 to 75. A team of graduating seniors, JJ
ended the season and their career with style,
but could have damped the offside cheer-
leading.

Because of exam week and the first
week of winter term, there has not been an
issue of The Davidsonian with the results of
preliminaries. Lest other fine teams and

players be forgotten, the following are the
results for Nov. 18. Mike Stephens and Bill
Barnett led Relentless Picnic to a victory
over Idiot Savants, forcing them out of the
double elimination playoffs. Despite the ef-
forts of John Reynolds and Trey Jammes.,
Picnic won with 135 to 130.

Jim's Mom knocked yet another team
out of contention, beating the Stogies 165 to
85. Chris Sullivan tried but could not nar-
row the margin. Solvent played JJ but had
an entirely different result from that in the
finals. JJ fought for a close win of 200 to
155. Relentless Picnic had yet another high-
wire performance as it edged out Kirk's En-
terprise 140 to 130. Kirk Kirkpatrick ended
the season and his career with a protest on a
question but to no avail.

Picnic’s luck finally ran out when it
played Jim's Mom. After two close vic-

tories, Picnic was dealt a severe trounce as
Jim's Mom won 210 to 30. Peggy Pierotti
got the Picnic’s only tossups of the match.
The night ended with Solvent and Jim's

Mom left to play for the position of chal-
lenger to JJ.

Here are a few scraps and rumors before
this article ends. Someone not on the varsity
team has written and tured in College
Bow! questions to Dr. Epes. Are there
others who are overcome by this generous
impulse? There will by tryouts for the var-
sity team but nothing has been set. When
tryouts are settled wait for your invitation in
the mail.

Dr. Epes is playing with the idea of a
College Bow! marathon in the spring. Eight
or so teams might play one match after
another one Saturday afternoon. If you're a
masochist, this is just the pleasure for you.
