Keith Finch

Despite all that has transpired in South Africa, some
people still seem unable to understand the magnitude of its
problems and accordingly misjudge the ways through
which some of us are trying to work toward a solution. For
instance, Bruce Sarkisian, in last week’s Davidsonian, ar-
gued against the idea of pulling American investments out
of South Africa. He stated that those who are in favor of the
withdrawal of funds“ . . . believe that if America pulls its
money out, the government will be weakened and therefore
forced to reform its apartheid policies.” Like so many
others, he has missed the real point of economic pressure
and is concentrating on “problems” that don’t exist. Sure,
sanctions don’t “work”, if what you mean by “work” is
“force the South African government to abandon apar-
theid.” But despite this seeming contradiction, sanctions
against South Africa remain an essential component of the
American arsenal against apartheid. Indeed, they are but
one aspect of the program of “active opposition” that
America must follow to prevent the victory of communism
in South Africa.

The point of economic divestment is not to force a gov-
emment to change, but to make a statement to the world, to
lend moral support to the people of the afflicted country,
and to show leacership. Carter’s boycott of the Olympics
and his Soviet grain embargo didn’t force the Russians out
of Afghanistan. Sanctions against Poland didn’t force the
end of martial law. And our complete ban on economic re-
lations with Cuba has existed for years without pressuring
Castro to step down. What all of these actions did was to
show the world that we were opposed to governments that
oppress their citizens. We must realize that in the case of
South Africa, virtually all the African continent sees the
United States as a supporter of apartheid — not because we
really do support it, but because we do not actively oppose
it as they do. Former Ambassador Jack Perry recently
pointed out the value of sanctions in an article in the Ob-
server:

Opponents of sanctions always say “They don’t
work.” This is generally true, if by “work” one
means to force the target government to change its
policy. But sanctions do “work” in some significant

Opinions
South African Views Need Reconsideration

ways: they symbolize an attitude and they show
leadership. That’s why they’ re a lasting part of the in-
ternational scene.
Most of Europe has invoked sanctions against South Africa
to show its displeasure with the imposition of martial law,
and we should be willing to do the same. President
Reagan's sanctions have therefore done a service to our
reputation abroad.
ep hp EES suspuunrnstmnnsnaenteeemnnmeeee

The point of economic divestment is
not to force a government to change,
but to make a statement to the
world .. .

Students seek divestment, therefore, because they wish
to do as much as possible to prove to the world that we re-
ally are lovers of freedom. Student protests were largely re-
sponsible for generating the wave of public opinion that
forced first Congress, and then the President, to seriously
consider the idea of official sanctions. Students do not wish
to hurt the South African blacks, but they realize that their
efforts will help much more than they harm. Bishop Des-
mond Tutu, whom even Falwell no longer calls “a phony”
and whom the Reagan Administration praised as “a recog-
nized black leader, a man of great personal integrity. One
of the black community’s legitimate spokesman, a voice of
moderation” has openly requested that the United States
impose stiff sanctions on the South African Government
and divest as much as possible. The South African blacks
would understand American divestment as equivalent to
American moral support, and they would have every
reason to undergo minor hardship in their quest for liberty.
For what is a job to a man who cannot participate in the gov-
ernment? What is a little less food to a woman who has no
control over her destiny? Would not each and every one of
us sacrifice all our material goods if we were required to
fight for our right to live as human beings? The South Afri-
can people cannot expect to be translated from despotism to

Friday, October, 1983.4

heen

liberty in a teatherbed, and they know it. We should take
heed.

Bruce Sarkisian makes one more unsupported assertion
in his article which I must also refute here. For instance, he
links the recent increases in the number of governments im-
posing sanctions to the increased violence of black funeral
demonstrations, as if the blacks were really rioting for pur-
ely economic reasons. He states, “ . . . as more countries
announce economic sancitons against South Africa, black
funeral demonstrations have become increasingly violent
and destructive and more and more blacks have been killed
by state police. I believe that President Botha would sooner
declare martial law than reform his policies because of
black mobs.” By intimating that minor sanctions are the
cause of the blacks’ rioting Sarkisian denies them the dig-
nity of a cause for which to fight; they are battling for lib-
erty, yet he makes it seem like they're just pushing for
higher wages. They don’t just want economic security; .
they want a voice in the government. They desire more than

bread; they seek the right to live with the dignity that is their
due.

So what must we do in South Africa to avert a tragedy?
We are agreed that apartheid must be destroyed, but what if
communism, or something worse than communism, were
to be erected in its stead? 1 would argue that the only way
the United States can be sure to prevent the spread of com-
munism in South Africa is to become actively supportive of
the blacks and their cause. We should not support militancy
of course, for we cannot become responsible for
bloodshed, but we must do everything in our power to as-
sure the demise of apartheid. By supporting the blacks with
sanctions against the government, condemnation of the
white supremacy in the world arena, economic aid to
blacks out of jobs and anything else that is necessary, we
can assure ourselves of a lasting friendship with the emerg-
ing black South Africa. When apartheid collapses, as
Bruce Sarkisian and I agree that it will, we must be ready
and able to be the blacks’ best friends. We must be
Lafayette to the blacks’ Yorktown. With our support, there
would be no way for the communists to take control in
South Africa, and we would have nothing to fear. Further-
more, we would have been assured, all along the way, of
having been justified in helping an oppressed people to ac-
quire their freedom. This is the course which we must take.
—_________- > ee eee eee

Finch is a sophomore from Blacksburg, Va.

American television lacks balanced programming

Tim Brown

A fortnight ago the National Council of Churches lam-
basted prevalent violence on T.V., lamented its effects on
children. And it discussed, might I say wrangled or quar-

Censoring goes too far in the ar-
bitrary imposition of another’s
standard on all of us, in its distin-
guishing for us _ controver-
Sialism .. .

SS ——————— —
reled, with the Federal Communications Commission,

hoping the F.C.C. might reaffirm its responsibility to regu-
late broadcasting, with intentions biased in favor of the

public’s interest — not the broadcasters’.

Three points I here wish for us to ponder, introduced by
the National Council of Churches: (1) The government
should screen all programs, censoring as it sees fit. (2) Ad-
vanced information about T.V. shows should be in news-
papers and, or magazines, dutifully foretelling such pur-
itanical abhorrencies as nudity, violence, drugs et al. (for
evil lurks in such things, my Grandmother Tebby use to
warn me at age 10, when I had an affinity for the word
“bullshit”). And (3), a station should air weekly, Monday
through Friday, 5 hours of children's programming.

I should go on to discuss here the points in prescribed
order. Censoring goes too far in the arbitrary imposition of
another's standard on all of us, in its distinguishing for us
controversialism: as if we are not able: not willing (I hope
you're willing).

Advance information in newspapers and magazines
helps us make informed decisions in choosing what to
watch, in choosing what our children are to watch. There

being no reason to fear the efficacious entrails of the “black
box,” when, with help of advanced information, we are
able to switch the channel — or, better yet as I would sup-
port — to read.

One Peggy Charren writes, as president of Action for
Children’s Television, “But it's senseless to talk about
planning a well-balanced T. V. diet if those who provide the
menu offer little food for thought,” bringing us to the prob-
lem: Having not enough choice to offer the younger audi-
ence during the weekdays. The Children’s Television act,
shared recently with Congress, ought solve this problem

for families concerned as they ought to be. The bill would
require each station to air five hours of programs for chil-
dren, during the weekdays, Monday through Friday:
hereby stimulating a market for children’s product on T.V.
Families would be able to tum off violence and to turn on
another channel. Or instead, I suggest, again, a book — or
maybe an article in one of the magazines tucked in the
corner of your bathroom. Which reminds me. Ben Benson,
seen seapieenisemetem

I suggest, again, a book — or
maybe an article in one of the
magazines tucked in the corner
of your bathroom.

a sportswriter, concluded that there are more T.V. sets than
bathrooms in the U.S.A. Leading me, and possibly you. to
deduce: That we might watch more than we evacuate.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opintons
editor of The Davidsonian.
