Friday, February 1, 1985/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Lennesse And Tell Me Another Story Hit Home

By ROSS HOLT

A character study of an aged hill-woman and a tender
examination of mother-daughter relationships highlight
this week’s workshop plays. Tennessee by Romulus
Linney, directed by junior Meagan Bos, and Tell Me
Another Story, Sing Me A Song, by Jean Lenox Toddie,
directed by senior Amy Burton, both span large parts of
their character lives and translate the characters’ emo-
tions in equally fine productions.

Tennessee is the story of the life of an old mountain
woman, so old she is “either 19 or 90,” as one character
says. The woman, played effectively by sophomore
Laeta Kalogridis, has departed her Tennessee home. on
foot for a final visit to her homestead in North Carolina.

At the homestead, however, lives a family that has
purchased the land from the woman’s now dead rela-
tives. With the curious family members watching, the
woman acts out the course of her life to explain why she
returned.

Kalogridis shines as the woman. A difficult role, the
character indeed ages from 19 to 90 during the course of
the play. Kalogridis manages the transitions impres-
sively. As an old, old woman, she is stooped and even
appears toothless; her accent, reflecting both region and
age, never falters; and her hands and gestures appear ar-
thritic and aged. None of the aspects of her character,
however, ever turn into cliché.

Kalogridis also executes the woman's transforma-
tions in age well, especially her first in which she goes
from 90 back to 19. Kalogridis carries this transforma-
tion so subtley that you do not know it is happening until
it has ended. Later, she moves from young adulthood to
late middle age with a mere pulling back of the hair.

The show essentially belongs to Kalogridis, but it is
framed by the dreams of the mountain family. Senior
Scot Myers, freshmen Beth Parker, and Dan Michaelis
play mother, father, and son who work the land.and hope ‘
for it one day to pay. They also briefly play characters
from the old woman's youth. The actors create their
characters consistently, but at times fail to project their
lines.

Sull, for the most of the play they are watching
Kalogridis, and deserve commendation for standing still
in character. It is harder than it appears.

As the old woman's husband Griswold, junior Allen

on brings a commanding presence to the stage. In
ell-blocked scenes, he and Kalogridis create an adver-
sarial relationship between their characters as funny as it
is, ultimately, heart-rending.

The play also_boasts good production values. Direc-
tor ‘Bos: maKes’ good use of two boxes, which serve
equally as a table, a wagon bench, and a tombstone.
Lighting successfully creates compelling moods, though
they seem a bit too sudden sometimes.

Tennessee is a quiet play given a thoughtful produc-
tion. With bitter twist in the end, it offers a moving ac-
count of a woman who has lived her empty life, as she
says, “between two flashes of a mirror.”

Tell Me Another Story, Sing Me A Song shifts in

Art Professor To Give Exhibition

By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

Bats, bicycles, and other childhood memories ap-
pear in art Professor Pamela DeLaura’s upcoming
exhibit, “Works on Paper.” The combination of prints
and mixed media (a technique which uses such materials
as watercolor, pencil, pastel in one drawing), approxt-
mately 20 in all, focuses on DeLaura’s “directly auto-
biograhpical childhood memories.”

DeLaura has been working on the childhood theme
for four years. Though the drawings include commen-
taries, written by the artist, explaining the particular cir-
cumstances which inspired the work of art, DeLaura
wishes the accompanying text to be simple “a departing
point” from which viewers can look back to their child-
hood.

According to DeLaura, who grew up in Erie, Penn..
her work still “has universal implications” despite its
personal nature.

Art has always been a part of her life. In grade school
she “did all right in math and English, but art class was
the euphoric experience of the day.” She said. “I never
considered myself an artist, however, because I thought
you had to be chosen from birth — fated — to be an art-
ist. But | always loved looking at pictures.” .

Even through high school, DeLaura never consid-
ered art school as an option. But with the strong encour-
agement from some of her high school teachers, she de-
cided to make art a career.

She graduated from State University of New York
College at Buffalo with a major in studio art and then at-
tended the Tyler School of Art, a part of Temple Univer-
sity in Philadelphia, for her graduate work. During this
time, there were many instances when she questioned
her intentions. “I asked myself what I was trying to do in

becoming an artist? Was I as good as ell those real art-
ists?”

In creating a piece of art, DeLaura begins with a
memory and tries to visualize it as an image. She jots
random thoughts down in a notebook. She also makes
rough sketches and drawings. DeLaura has spent up to
12 hours straight working on a drawing. She explained
that “There's a lot of discipline involved. Its a lot easier
to turn on the television than work, but you've got to
have discipline if you want to get anywhere.”

DeLaura tries to work in two modes. In the subjec-
tive mode she tries to convey what she feels. In the ob-
jective mode she asks herself if what she wants to ex-
press “makes sense as a concrete piece of art.” Often, PTI
stare at a work for two hours before | decide what I want
to do next. [Us alla part of the process. When I start zet-
ting frustrated, though, I stop.”

DeLaura specifically addresses herself to her vie-
wer, who she feels is very important. Yet she describes
herself as “not so idealistic in thinking that everyone will
like itor willunderstand what I’m doing. All | wantts for
them to relate my work to themselves. [ want to strike an
emotional chord be it big or little.”

DeLaura plans to focus on the theme of childhood in-
definitely. Yet she feels that as an artist, “You can’t plan
your life, though sometimes I wish I could. Of course.
any artist wants recognition — to be in a famous gallery
because no one does it [art] just for himself. You have to
show your work to others. If you make something and
just shove it under the bed, you won't last.”

She would also like to continue teaching. preferably
where she and her husband, a musician, can find work.
“| like teaching and the freedom I'm given at Davidson
to teach what | want, how | want.” DeLaura wants to

Peggy Pierotti :

Of Her Work

focus from the hills to the modern world, from the life of
one character to the intertwined lives of two.

The play derives its title from the plea of a five-year-
old girl played by senior Alva Moore, who is scared of
the dark. Her mother, played by Meitra Khazaeli, re-
sponds as all mothers do, unwilling to pamper her child
yet deeply desiring to do so. Tell Me Another Story then
follows the mother-daughter relationship through crises
both major and minor, until the roles have become more
or less reversed.

This play is unique in that it is made up of the univer-
sal language of growing up and of family drama. Audi-
ence members can hear themselves and their parents in
the lines, some of which are clichés (“What would the
neighbors think?”). The play, consequently, threatens to
be pat, perhaps even trite.

Burton's well-integrated production, however, rises
above this threat. Moore and Khazaeli bring the daugh-
ter and the mother beyond the stereotypical, and use the
moveable set pieces to enhance and define their charac-
ters. «

Moore displays a good feel for the whims of child-
hood, the capriciousness of the teenage years, and the re-
sponsibility of adulthood. Her process of maturation
matches well with Khazaeli, who herself moves from the
authority of parenthood to the desire to relax restraints as
a grandparent. Khazaeli and Moore have genuine
chemistry on stage; they have recreated the subtle
touches and inflections of the relationship they’ are por-
traying.

The set consists of six boxes which the actors arrange
in various positions. The boxes serves as beds, chairs,
tables, even upstairs rooms. Burton has wisely set upa
rhythm for their movement, so the set pieces do not end
up in the same place time and again. As used by the ac-

tors, they serve symbolic purposes too: at one point a
counter or bar becomes a wall between mother and
daughter.

Tell Me Another Story is about everyone. It encapsu-
lates a story of which most of us have lived at least part
into a concise drama. It ultimately helps put that story
into a new perspective.

This week's workshop plays offer commentary on
the family and the individual within the family. The two
strong productions drive their messages home

an ee
ee / Oia

ae y 5 ’ ‘eaen”

an

Pamela DeLaura

convey her belief that art should “make a statement and
make people think” and ts therefore a vital part of our seo
ciety.”

“Works on Paper” begins Feb. 4 and runs until Feb
28 in Chambers Gallery. There 1s a reception from 4 to 6
p.m. Feb. 6 as well as a talk inthe Gallery from 10 to 11
Feb. 7

a.m
