4 Friday, January 11, 1985/The Davidsonian

SGA To Hold Winter Term Elections Tuesday

Rudy& McLean, Beasley & Cardwell

Compete For Freshman Advisors

Sara Beasley and Tommy Cardwell

As a team of candidates for Freshman
Advisor, we resolved our commitment to
this office in mid-November. We are
confident in our own abilities and sense
strong support from those interested in
the welfare of the hall counseling pro-
gram. Our goals, our interests, and our
talents demonstrate that we are the better
team for the job.

We joined together not in conveni-
ence but in genuine seriousness and faith
in each other. We share roles as present
hall counselors: Sara of Third
Richardson and Tommy of Third Belk. It
strikes us as silly to consider any other
qualification more important. Please ask
our freshmen! They know how we have
done this year and will declare confi-
dence in our ability to do well next year.

In continuing our support for a
healthy program, we are determined to
clarify any recurring issues further. We
need to choose the best applicants as hall

counselors, we need to consider their al-

ternates more carefully, and we will need

the help of a representative committee.
The hall counselor selection process

is the first task of the Freshman Advisor
team. Upon chosing these counselors,
we will set forth to help them. We can
only guide their policies; we refuse to set
or limit them because only the hall coun-
selors can live with the freshmen next
year. Each year the views change on al-
cohol, drug use, vandalism, and the self-
selection process. Flexibility and endur-
ance are key qualities in any position of
leadership; we feel blessed with both.
The freshman hall program remains
perhaps the only experience most every-
one reading this paper shares. Its impor-
tance is impossible to underestimate.
Our duty rests in providing the strongest
possible base for next year’s incoming
class. By drawing upon our considerable
resources, we seek to do more than sim-
ply carry out the responsibilities of the
Freshman Advisors. The job demands
not only experience and skill, but the
consistent and persistent effort that re-
sults.from true dedication. By voting for
us on Tuesday, you will be casting a re-
sponsible vote — for a responsible team.
Thank you for your time.

Sayres Rudy and Kaudie McLean

As present hall counselors, our idea
of the function of Freshman Advisors re-
flects the role that the current Freshman
Advisors have fulfilled for us during the
past several months.

-First, and perhaps most importantly,
the Freshman Advisors help select a re-
sponsible group of students to act as hall
counselors for the following year, and
hopefully to continue to be a resource to
their hallmates after their official duties
end.

Second, once hall counselors have
been chosen, the Freshman Advisors
‘themselves become a resource for infor-
mation, creative ideas and suggestions
for dealing with the various responsibili-

ties and problems that the hall counselors
confront, and frequently, a source of
emotional support and encouragement.”

They act mainly as “counselors to the
counselors” and have the advantage of
nine months’ first-hand experience (in-
cluding their mistakes) to draw upon.
Furthermore, they serve as a familiar and
accessible liason between the hall coun-
selors and the Dean of Students’ Office
and counseling staff; and, like most hall
counselors the Freshman Advisors act as
great student advocates — for the hall
counselors and freshmen alike.

Our goal as Freshman Advisors
would be to fulfill these functions and to
initiate some of what we feel would be
improvements in the hall counselor pro-
gram. First, we would like to establish a
clear and unbiased policy concerning the
role of hall counselor in the self-selection
process of Patterson Court, especially
with regards to the fraternities and their
rush procedures. We believe that all hall
counselors should remain completely
neutral and detached from “recruiting”
freshmen.

We don’t think this policy asks .hall

counselors in eating clubs or fraternities
to become inactive . in their respective
houses; it simply entails their equal en-
couragement of all eating and social ar-
rangements, no discouragement of any
of them, and general support of the diver-
sity Patterson Court offers. Second, we
hope that the election of Freshman Ad-
visors will, in the future, be determined
by a vote of only the current hall coun-
selors and Freshman Advisors. We don’t
see this proposal (presented last year as
well) as an elitist attempt to exclude the
student body from choosing competent
Freshman Advisors.

We do believe that, because the cam-
pus as a whole rarely hears about our per-
formance and ability to fulfill our role as
hall counselors, the people most in touch
with this situation (hall counselors and
Freshman Advisors) seem best qualified
to elect responsible individuals. Finally,
we would like to see the hall counselors
receive more training by working further
with the counseling staff and with the
professors in the psychology depart-
ment.

We believe we are well qualified for
the office. We are both capable ‘hall
counselors having met our share of chal-
lenges this year, and are enthusiastic
about the possibility of meeting more this
year and next as candidates for Freshman
Advisors. In addition, Kaudie has also
been a hall counselor for July Experience
and, as an independent study in psychol-
ogy, has been a guest member in a group
therapy sesson for battered women and
rape victims at the Jubilee House in
Statesville. Sayres has been a member of
SGA, Honor Council, and several inter-
est groups on campus. It would be diffi-
cult to make a bad choice in this election,
unless you choose not to vote. Please
consider us.

We asked candidates for each
contested office to respond to
three questions: 1) what specific
experiences qualify you for this
position; 2) what do you hope to
accomplish if elected; and 3)
what do you consider the role of
the office for which you are run-
ning? We printed all the re-
sponses we received,

Due to the special cir-

cumstances of this election, we
have decided with the candi-
dates for Y-Corps president not
to reprint their responses, which
appeared in The Davidsonian’'s
Dec. 5, 1984 issue.

For the Wildcat Handbook
race, we will reprint the one re-
sponse we received for the Dec. 5
issue with the response of the
opposing candidates.

Teams Compete In Handbook Race

John Freeman and Andy Graves

The requirements for the editors of
any publication are experience, organi-
zation, ingenuity, and especially dedica-
tion. We believe our attributes and ideas
uniquely qualify us as co-editors of the
Wildcat Handbook. We bring combined
experience of seven years on high-school
publications. John was the yearbook’s
photography editor his junior year, rising
to the position of general editor as a
senior. Andy worked both in the fields of
photography and journalism on_ his
school paper.

As co-editors of the Wildcat Han-
dbook, we would continue the fine for-
mat of the present edition while broaden-
ing the scope of its usefulness. Organiz-
ing production and layout design are key
factors for successful and informative
publications. We intend to devote time
and effort into mere organization, assur-
ing quality and clarity.

Rising freshmen depend upon the
handbook to facilitate the transition from
high school to college. From first-hand
experience, we know both the problems
and possibly solutions to common orien-
tation side-effects. At the same time, the
publication must remain informative and
spark the interests of the new students in

their new academic and social environ-
ment. -

‘Freshmen are often apprehensive,
confused and uncertain about what lays
in store for them. The Handbook addres-
ses these uncertainties. We would ex-
pand the directory section to encompass
information on social, academic, and
athletic opportunities at Davidson, in-
cluding helpful suggestions to help ease
the strain of adjustment.

As rising freshmen enter their new
life, orientation fades as the key function
of the handbook. Instead, freshmen use
the handbook as a reference guide. Yet
time and time again, freshmen are be-
sieged with the problem of locating
classmates and peers in the initial weeks
without the telephone directory to aid in
room numbers. If at all possible, room
numbers and even home addresses would
be included with the traditional picture
identification section:::- With’ thése ‘im-
provements; the Wildcat Handbook can
better serve both orientation and refer-
ence functions. With educated co-
editors, the 1985-86 Handbook will be-
come a more valuable tool for incoming
freshman.

Laurin de Beck

and Alice Reeves

The Wildcat Handbook is most im-
portant and useful in easing the
freshmen’s transition into the Davidson
way of life. As editors of the Handbook
we believe that we can be of great help in
familiarizing the freshmen with David-
son. We realize the importance of the
Handbook to not only the freshmen, but
to everyone here on campus. We are
planning an exciting, different, and fun
handbook that will be filled with concise
and useful information.

We believe that as editors we are a
good combination of experience —

Laurin was editor and layout her high
school literary magazine which won an
award in the Virginia High School league
competition, Alice serves as Vice-Presi-
dent of Warner Hall and is coordinator of
all Freshmen Activities). We are both ar-
tistic and creative and have some won-
derful ideas for the handbook — and are
eager for anyone else’s ideas.

We both will work hard to insure ev-
eryone will find the 1985-86 Wildcat
Handbook useful and informative. We
would appreciate your support on Tues-
day!

Dana Lemon and Pepper Bego

1) Dana’s experience: High school
yearbook staff, BSC Publicity Chairper-
son (1983-840; Special Events Chairper-
son (1984-85); Active involvement in a
variety of campus activities including
SGA, IMAC council, College Union,
Gospel Choir. Pepper’s experience:
(Davidson College basketball) high
school yearbook staff, BSC Bulletin
Board (e.g. Fire in My Bones, Spring
1984) and other publicity.

2) Our main goal would be to create a

freshman handbook that is informative
and entertaining, one that would enable
the freshman class to make a smooth
transition into Davidson College life and
community. We hope to involve more of
the campus and community in creation
and production of the handbook.

3) The editor’s responsibility: crea-
tion and production of.a well organized
and informative handbook that can serve
as a reference source to be used before
and especially after arrival at Davidson.

EXCITING SUMMER JOB for College students and
faculty. Summer camp needs Counselors in tennis,
hiking, rock climbing, waterski, sailing, kayak, canoe,
etc. Salary includes room and food. Reply now to: Ben C.
Cart, Box 100, Cedar Mtn. NC 28718
or call (704) 884-5388.

