Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Workshop Plays Open With Hit And Near Miss

By ROSS HOLT

The Theatre department’s Winter workshop season
opened last night with two plays, one a hit and the other a
near miss.

Canadian Gothic by Joanna Glass, as directed by
junior Anne Lambert, was a brooding examination of the
relationship between a father and his daughter. Am I
Blue? by Beth Henley, directed by junior Alison
McGill, followed one evening in the lives of a College
fraternity member and a scatterbrained high school stu-
dent he meets ‘in a bar.

Canadian Gothic, first in the set, begins inauspi-
ciously but works its way into an affecting drama. Senior
John Marks, 4 veteran of many Davidson productions,
plays the patriarch of a Cardigan, Canada, family. He is
a stern man who prescribes the mundane bounds within
which his spirited wife, played by junior Jennifer Poole,
can live.

But the wife manages to instill her ideas about life

and freedom in the couple’s daughter Jean, played by >

Junior Martha Wilson. As Jean matures, though, she be-
comes involved with Ben Red Leaf, a native American
played by Andrew Wilson, and her mother’s legacy
leads to tragedy.

At first, this play seems unlikely to succeed. The
characters tell their story, and their feelings, to the audi-
ence in narrative fashion and use interaction among the
characters to punctuate the narrative.

Most of the dramatic interest in the play comes when
the narrative resumes after an interaction to cap the scene
with a sudden reality about what happened. In the play’s
first few minutes, you get the nagging feeling that you
would rather be shown than told.

Further, the play, and this produciton of it, are static.
To a degree, the stillness is inherent in the play; the stop-
start nature of the action limits the range of movements
the actors have. Ideally, the blocking should account for
the stillness, but here it sends the actors to the same
places, when they do move, over and over again. Direc-
tor Lambert has also given the characters territories on
the stage, further limiting the scope of movement.

It is left entirely to the characters the actors have
created, then, to capture the audience. They succeed,
magnificently. Canadian Gothic begins and runs for its
first half as mere story-telling, it becomes a riveting
piece of theatre.

The success is due in large part to Marks and Martha
Wilson. Both bring an impressive depth to their charac-
ter. As the daugher, Wilson builds experience into her
innocence gradually as she matures through the play.
Marks, as the father, who says he wraps himself with a

2
§
z
i
&

Lee Eichelberger receives a tongue-lashing by Sarah Smith in “Am! Blue?”

crust like the earth to protect the softness inside, evokes
precisely the right emotion at the right time.

He has endowed his character with just the right
“nice touches,” from his not-too-American but still pro-
vincial accent to the way he pathetically searches his car-
digan sweater, at the end of the play, for a non-existent
breast pocket.

This production will put you off at first. But during
the blackout after the final scene between Marks and
Wilson, you will be left, as most in yesterday’s audience
were, wondering whether to applaud or wipe the tear
from your eye.

The evening’s second play, Am / Blue? , however, is
less successful. It almost works, but inexperienced ac-
tors just miss lifting the play above its rather clichéd for-
mula.

The play itself comes out of a subspecies of plays, of
sorts, two or three of which usually appear during a
workshop season. These plays are primarily banter com-
edies, the humorous dialogue of which veers from the
saccharine to the bizarre.

They employ at least one “normal” character and at
least one “weird” one; one male and one female. Half-
way through, these plays turn “relevant,” and the
ripostes become more revealing.Finally, however, the
two main characters end up happily snuggling.

In this case, the “normal” character is John Polk
Richards, played by freshman Lee Eichelberger, a first
year college student and fraternity member. The “weird”
character is Ashbe Williams, played by sophomore
Sarah Smith, a high school student in cat-eye glasses
who escapes the cliquish nature of her peers by indulging
in bizarre hobbies such as kleptomania and dyeing mar-
shmallows.

The two meet up in a bar as John Polk is getting
drunk for a later appointment at a house of ill repute.
Ashbe somehow persuades him to wait at her house.
There, amid the clutter of paper dolls, paper hats, and
other junk, the two attempt a compromise solution to
their diverse social problems.

With experienced actors, the comedy can over-
whelm the cliché. In last night’s production, however,
the actors’ timing was often off, and Eichelberger and
Smith seemed at times to lack energy. Consequently, the
humor often did not last past the laughs.

When Eichelberger and Smith hit their mark, how-
ever, the play clicks. Their characters are polished and
funny, and the potential exists to lift the play above the
cliché.

Both plays are entertaining at face value. Canadian
Gothic, however, goes deeper, and makes this workshop
as rewarding as any.

Photography Exhibit Captures History, Techniques

By DR. FRANK BLISS
special to The Davidsonian

The photographs on display in Chambers Gallery
this month are stunning. Here in connection with the
Sloan Foundation symposium entitled “Photography: A
Technological Art Form,” the prints are from the George
Eastman House, Princeton University, and Davidson’s
own collection. I’ve visited the Gallery at least once a
day since the exhibition opened, and each time I have
found new things to see. It’s a very exciting assemblage,
and if you haven’t seen it yet, you should view this
unique collection at least once before it departs. It’s too
good to miss.

On the south wall of the Gallery are prints from the
nineteenth century; at the rear are thirty-five prints by
Princeton Visual Arts Professor Emmet Gowin. On the
north wall are prints from the 20th century. The first time
you view the photographs, to gain a sense of the history
of photography you should start at the south door, and
when you have looked at each print on that wall, you
should walk to the north door and view the twentieth-
century prints, and finally those by Gowin.

Photographs are involved in everything we do, but
although the camera obscura dates from the eleventh
century, the fixing of an image by means of the action of
light dates only from the beginning of the nineteenth
century.

You can read, for example, Beaumont Newhall’s
The History of Photography from 1839 to the Present
(1982), but there you find only reproductions of photo-
graphs; the exhibition in Chambers enables you to view
the gorgeous prints themselves. In connection with the
prints from the nineteenth century, art Professor Larry
Ligo has prepared typed statements describing different
photographic processes (Daguerrotype, woodburytype,
etc.). All the prints have captions. Personally, however,
I do not like to read anything when I am looking at photo-
graphic images; I just like to look at the prints.

For, as Dorothea Lange observed, the camera is an
instrument that teaches people to see without a camera.
Looking at the prints will reveal not only what others
have seen, but also should enable you to come to see bet-
ter yourself.

Emmet Gowin’s photographs are superb. He sees
unusually well, and he prints beautifully. | discovered
his photographs some years ago through the Virginia
Museum in Richmond; I remember being surprised by
his circular images in rectangular frames, and by the
snapshot-like qualities of some of his early work.

Then I suddenly realized that there is something very
special indeed about Gowin’s vision. Curiously, his in-
terest in photography was awakened by his looking at a
reproduction of Ansel Adams’ “Burnt Stump and New
Grass, Sierra Nevada” (you can find a reproduction of
that photograph on page 61 of Adams’ book, This is the

American Earth). But Gowin does not make picturesque
photographs as Adams did; among the photographers
who have influenced Gowin he identifies especially
Harry Callahan and Frederick Sommer.

Finally, Gowin’s vision is his own, as you will dis
cover if you compare his work with that of other photo-
graphers. After you have looked at the prints in the Gal-
lery, you should look at Emmet Gowin: Photographs
(Knopf, 1976) and at the recent Corcoran monograph

To learn about Gowin as printer and as professor of
visual arts, you might turn first to his statement in Dar
kroom2 (Lustrum Press, 1978). He will make you aware
that photographs can be as distinctive as fingerprints,
that “pictures are wonderful because they are made, be-
cause they are imbued with the feeling of the person
making them, and because they are symbolic” and not
just representational. You will learn that he feels very
close to “early Italian painting and the Northern Expres-
sionism of the Renaissance.” And you will learn how he
makes prints, with a conscious awareness of the under-
painting procedure of the Renaissance egg tempera tech-
nique.

For now, however, even if you have seen them al-
ready — especially if you have seen them already — go
to Chambers, look at those wonderful prints again, and
store them in the picture gallery of your brain. The gift of
seeing may well be the most precious gift of all.
