Hsidensicoher 11, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN:

_Let’s Sg give: t

David Host

~e—

is bicgiusias ve eel. ‘adil its Boconk-

panying prohibitive debt, befuddles both the’Democratic ~

House and the Republican Senate. Most members of Con-
gress acknowledge that the deficit is out of control, but no
one can agree upon a solution. The Democrats try to’paint
themselves as fiscally responsible, pressing for economi-
cally destructive tax hikes. They refuse to consider a disen-
tanglement of the web of needless government programs as
a solution, however. The time has come for a revolutionary.
reassessment of the “big government” that the New Deal
established. Congress has met the Reagan Administration
with determined resistance to any such Tpanteenet, how-
ever.

James Cc Miller, the Reagan appointee to head the Of-
fice of Management and Budget. has suggested one feasi-
ble proposal to reverse government expansionism. He
suggests that the federal government relinquish | its
monopoly on the postal service. Exclusive government
control oyer the postal system serves as an example of the
needless’ meddling and hypocrisy of liberal government.
The government cannot exempt an effective monopoly

aie. ‘Soar: aT. Sih kik ledilai. but sees its.
. : trust as beyond question. A return of the postal system to

‘private enterprise Would.carry benefits to both the govern-
_ , ‘Ment.and'the consumer: It would certainly be preferable to

pete ne orem ch ‘Before.

n

The time oe come for a -tevolutio-
nary reassessment of the “Big Gov-
ernment” that the ‘New Deal estab-
lished. 3

1978, a first-class stamp cost 13 cents. Today, it costs 22
cents. Further rises will become reality, as the government
cannot afford to add to its deficit. Free competition would
lead to lower costs to the consumer, and a rise in quality of
service. The efficiency of the freely ing overnight
delivery services testifies to this fact.

The same principle applies to public education. The
government continues to grope for a solution to the rising
costs and falling quality of publicly administered educa-
tion. Its answer thus far has been the creation of an ineffec-
tive department and more expenditures. An effective solu-

in inbthd find ts Socbing oft pte elie ey

tem, allowing private industry to develop schools of higher
quality. Instead of wasting funds upon the administration

of education, the government could give funds directly to
tamilies to cover the costs of private education. Certainly,
the government would regulate these institutions.to ensure
the admittance of any child. Compulsory education laws

‘would remain intact. A family could freely choose the right

school for its children, however. The choice would be be-

tween schools of better quality, with less costs. _

Both of these proposals would begin a healthy trend
back towards a reliance upon the private sector. The princi-
ples behind the successful Reagan tax cut program of 1981
would apply. Private money would flow into an already ex-
panding ecomony, instead of into governmental enigmas.
The federal government could use its tax money elsewhere,
especially in deficit reduction programs. In reducing its
size, government could keep critical aspects of both social
and defense spending. Governmental reduction is a palata-
ble alternative to irresponsibility. It deserves at least a
chance.

For further reference on ‘the postal service and educa-
tion arguments, see Milton Friedman's Capitalism and
Freedom, from which these : arguments were taken.

Host is a sophomore from Ladugion, KY.

You’ ve seen the rest,
now try the best

No homecoming date
to wake up to Sunday morning : ?

_ Doni t WoT.

Someone will be by your room soon
to offer you this faithful companion.

|
pour -
4

J

v*
