Friday, April:19, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Closemindedness At Davidson

David Resnik

I'm glad that some of you have taken
time from your busy schedule to read the
opening line of this article. Not that the
article is necessarily worth reading—it
may be a waste of your time—but it is
nice to know that someone is curious.
The topic for this tirade is “Davidson and
Closemindedness,” a phenomenon
which permates every aspect of this cam-
pus. If you already know everything
about the subject or really don’t care, feel
free to stop reading now.

I congratulate those of you who are
still with me; you passed the first test.
Most people don’t read past the first para-
graph of newspaper articles (1 know be-
cause I’m one of them). Despite our high-
minded pretentions about liberal arts and
the pursuit of knowledge, many of us
tend to lapse into dogmatic slumbers, and
the College helps put some of us to sleep.
The following examples illustrate how
closedmindedness manifests itself in
campus life.

Minimal Attendance Campus Events

Less .than a handful of students at-
tended the recent Sfoan Liberal Arts
Symposium on Technology and Free-
dom. How will new technologies affect
the quality of your life (or death)? Few
students care to know. You don’t need
your toes to count the numbers of stu-
dents who attend many of the events
sponsored by Amnesty International or
the Women’s Concerns Committee. Few
students show up for poetry readings or
guest lectures as well. Until recently, the
Black Student Coalition had trouble get-
ting students to attend its events. One
can't deny that some students attend cam-
pus events—God bless their concerned
souls. but did you ever notice that almost
the same group of students attend each
event? Everyone else is out either study-
ing or partying.

Lack of Concern About Current Events

Most students at Davidson would
have trouble naming the capital of South
Africa or the Soviet Union's new leader.
Our lack of concern for anything outside
of our limited world-view (i.e. tomor-
row’s test or party) numbs us into danger-
ous ignorance. Some studnets do read the
newspapers, but often they skim over the
headlines and imbibe the comics, sports,

or business pages. Many students can
describe the latest ‘Far Side” or can rattle
off the NBA playoff pairings, but they
could not tell you the day’s major news
story. How can we be responsible leaders
(or even minimally decent citizens) when
we don’t even care to know what goes on
in the world?
The Conservative Arts

Although Davidson has eamed its
reputation as a liberal arts college, many
students here try to get a “conservative
arts education.” By “conservative arts” I
mean the antithesis of liberal arts: while
the liberal arts stress knowledge for its
own sake and critical thinking, the con-
servative arts emphaisize knowledge
only for its practical use and thoughtless
memorization. Students who practice the
conservative arts avoid topics that are too
philosophical or abstract because they
don't want to understand them or just
don’t care. They just want their profes-
sors to tell them exactly what will be on
the test, and if possible they will get a
spot for every test and assignment. They
complain about professors who actually
try to make them think on a test by pre-
senting new material or new problems.

One wold hope that the educational
requirements at a liberal arts college like
Davidson would force students to learn
how to think critically. But it is possible
for students to weave their way through
Davidson’s srtringent core requirements
without seriously testing their web of be-
liefs; many students do. One can teach
knowledge without teaching the intellec-
tual virtues.
The Pre-Med Syndrome

Many of Davidson’s pre-medical stu-
dents typify the conservative arts ap-
proach to learning. Many (but by no
means all) of the pre-meds single-min-
dedly pursue the one goal which they
deem worthwhile—a career in medicine.
Quite often they pursue this goal to the
exclusion of all non-related activities,
They may play sports or hold a position
of responsibility, but they do so only to
fill their resumés. Needless to say, they
have very little time for poetry readings
or guest lecturers. Other Davidson stu-
dents, such as the pre-law or pre-business
students, also suffer from the painful pre-
med symdrome.
Who Cares About Student Apathy

Those of you who are still with me
Rey be wondering why I have written

this article. After all, who cares about
student apathy and closedmindedness?
Davidson has always had these prob-
lems, and it has survived them.
Moreover, many apathetic students
graduate from Davidson and become
highly successful doctors, lawyers, and
businessmen (and just recently business-
women). I will grant this objection, but it
entirely misses my point. Student apathy
and closedmindedness may seem like
miniscule problems but they're not. Until
Davidson students learned to open up and
practice the liberal arts, many of the
problems that plague this campus will not
go away.

For example, we cannot solve the
problems of race relations on this campus
until we overcome our apathy and open
up. You can hold as many race relations
forums as you want, but they will do little
good unless students (and not just the al-
ready concerned students) come to them.
The students who really need to attend
events like race relations forums are usu-
ally studying or partying. Furthermore,
increasing minority recruitment will not
solve the race problem unless students
make an effort to meet each other and
share their experiences.

The problem we have with relations
between the sexes (and believe me, it is
more than just a sexual problem) also
stems from our closedmindedness. We
need to give each other a chance instead
of saying “Oh, she's (he’s) just like every
other Davidson women (man). We also
need to open up in order to resolve con-
flicts over athletic policy, and we need to
have meaningful dialogue in order to ad-
dress Patterson Court's problems. The
administration and Trustees also need to
open up their minds on these matters.

Having an open mind and a concern
for what happens on this campus and in
the rest of the world won't solve David-
son's problems, much less the problems
in the “real world,” but it is a necessary
first step toward taking effective action.
As long as we relax in our dogmatic
slumbers, we don’t have a chance; but we
do have a chance if we wake up. Where
there is an open mind, there is hope.

Resnik is a senior philosophy major from
Chapel Hill, N.C. and is an editor
emeritus of The Davidsonian.

11

Different Freedoms

Cause
Different. Harms

Tim Brown

With increasing frequency | find the
opinion expressed in the newspapers: that
the corpulent person, the malodorous per-
son and the smoker should have their free-
doms subjected to the same scrutinies and to
the same criticisms. I disagree; allow me to
explain why.

John Stuart Mill's “harm principle”
states that a person can do whatever he likes
as long as he does not harm a nonconsenting
other; that different freedoms create differ-
ent harms; that different freedoms, causing
different harms, should be subjected to dif-
ferent scrutinies and to different criticisms.
Possibly a person's obesity will harm, in a
manner inconceivable to me. a nonconsent-
ing person; however, a person's obesity
harms in no way the nonconsenting per-

Different treedoms .. .
should be subjected to
different scrutinies and
to different criticisms.

son's health. Possibly a person's body odor
will harm, in a manner quite conceivable to
me, a nonconsenting person. A Roman
poet, Catullus, states that a man who has
underarms that smell like a goat will find
neither a fernale companion, nor a friend.
However, a person's body odor harms in no
way the nonconsenting person's health.
Possibly a person‘s smoking will harm, ina
manner most conceivable to me, a noncon-
senting person; moreover, as proven by em-

pirical research, a person's smoking does

harm the nonconsenting person's health.

Thus, becuase their different freedoms

create different harms to the nonconsenting

person the corpulent person. the ill-smel-

ling person, and the smoker should have

their freedoms subjected to different

serutinies and to different criticisms.

Brown is a freshman from Mint Hill, North
Carolina and is opinions editor of The
Davidsonian.

_ Al Works to Abolish Death Penalty

A.I.U.S.A.

“AS one whose husband and mother-in-law have both
died the victims of murder assassination, I stand firmly and
unequivocally opposed to the death penalty for those con-
victed of capital offenses. An evil deed is not redeemed by
an evil deed of retaliation. Justice is never advanced in the
taking of a human life. Morality is never upheld by
legalized murder.”

Coretta Scott King

In 1983 more than 1600 people were executed
worldwide: nearly that many wait for thier end on Ameri-
ca’s death row. In more than 20 years’ experience docu-
menting human rights abuses Amnesty International has
seen that the death penalty does nothing to make society
safer. Many people hold the belief that capital punishment
deters crime. Both the U.S. Supreme Court and the United
Nations have found no conclusive evidence to support that
belief. The United States is the only Western industrialized
nation with capital punishment. Canada, France,. and
Great Britain have all abolished the death penalty.

A major reason that Great Britain abolished the death
penalty was the discovery that an innocent man had been
executed. The death penalty is an irreversible punishment.
Since 1900 in the United States an average of one convicted
murderer per year was later found innocent. In 1975 Fred-
die Pitts and Wilbert Lee were released when another man
confessed to the murder of two white gas station attendants
in Florida. These two black men served twelve years in
prison and were almost put to death for crimes they did not
commit. We can never know the actual number of people
who have been unjustly executed.

The death penalty does not deter violent crime. Su-
preme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall states, “The death
penalty is no more effective a deterrent than life imprison-
ment ... It is also evident that the burden of capital
punishment falls on the poor, the ignorant, and the under-
privileged members of society.” In Texas a study of the
judicial system found that three out of four convicted mur-
derers with court-appointed lawyers were sentenced to
death, as opposed to one out of three with private attomeys.
Money makes a difference. Race is also a factor which in-
creases th¢fikelihood of execution. Since 1930, 90 percent
of the men executed for rape were black. (In 1977, the Su-
preme Court ruled the death penalty is excessively harsh

punishment for the crime of rape.)

The death penalty is no way to show that killing is
wrong. Do we rape rapists? Justice does not mean imitate
the crime. There is a false assumption that the death penalty
helps to fight crime. It does not. The death penalty teaches
that killing is sometimes acceptable. while denying the fun-
damental humanity of all people. Governments around the
world execute people in different ways for different
reasons, but no government should execute human beings.
The United States was founded on a respect for those fun-
damental rights each individual deserves for no other
reason than because he or she is a human being. The death
penalty is cruel, inhuman, and degrading punishment. and
human rights apply to all people, even those whose acts are
condemned by society. No one should be sentenced to die.
In the words of Andrei Sakarov. “Savagery begets only
savagery.”

Tuesday, April 23, at 8 p.m. in the Big Screen Room
Amnesty International will present a slide presentation
focusing on individuals in the U.S. who have been sen-
tenced to dic, including a man who was found innocent
subsequent to his conviction.
