Fraternity Put On Social Probation

Sigma Alpha Epsilon will be put on social probation next month as punish-
ment for accidentally starting a fire on the roof of Knox dormitory last Sunday,
according to Dean of Students Will Terry.

Terry said social activities will be banned from May 7 until May 22 for the
incident, which occured when SAE members ignited fireworks as part of the
fraternity “rundown,” in which SAE pledges attack the fraternity house. Terry
said the rundown will not be allowed “ever.”

Though the fire caused no damage, according to Terry, fraternity members
violated a ban he ordered on fireworks in fraternity activity earlier this year.

Terry said he also suggested that the fraternity pursue a project of their
choosing “to enhance the beauty of the campus.” According to Terry, the frater-
nity did not contest the action. “They accepted responsibility that they had done
the wrong thing,” he said. Terry announced the disciplinary action at the SAE
meeting on Tuesday. |

SAE President Gerald Meyer said the action was “fully deserved.” He said
the fraternity “blatantly disregarded” Terry’s ban on fireworks. “We're sincere
in our regret,” he said.

News Summary

Friday, April 26, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Locks Prove Effective

The recently installed electric combination lock system on Knox dormitory
“is causing more confusion than anything else,” according to Chief of Security
Jackie Hughes. Director of Housing Bill Bolding said, “From what I've heard
from students down there, they like it.” The system, implemented at a cost of
$1,000, includes an electric combination alarm and new locks for the three out-
side doors required by the combination, with the main doors being locked at
night.

e polding said eventually some kind of security device will be placed on all
dormitories. ““We’re going to put a system in elsewhere,” he stated, “probably
this one; it looks very promising.” Hughes recommended the SIMPLEX system
for future dorm installations, adding that that system involved changeable locks
on every door, which he said, “would help us [the security staff] tremendously.”

Mary Edwards, Resident Advisor for Knox dormitory, commented, “It’s
difficult to say right now exactly how successful or unsuccessful the lock system
at Knox has been . . . time will tell whether this system will be successful at
thwarting these security problems. There have been a few kinks to be worked
out, but I think they are being worked out. I believe it is an effective system.”

MEN: Summer. Counselors needed for coed resident camp lo-
cated on Lake Wylie. Openings for WSIs, Water, Skiing, Sailing,
Gymnastics, Tennis, and General Sports. Contact:Director, Camp
Thunderbird, Rt. 7, Box 50, Clover, S. C., 29710. Ph. 803-831-
2121. ;

WANTED: RIDING MASTER for summer resident camp, 23
horses and program for 120 campers, 21-plus, must have extensive
knowledge about English riding. Contact: Director, Camp Thun-
derbird, Rt. 7, Box 50, Clover, S. C., 29710. Ph. 803-2121.

1-77 at Hwy 73

‘UNITED
as al Cornelius/Lake
vel Norman

137. N. Main St. 292-7805

Davidson
892-7815

:
A

Georgetown
m University

_, Summer

r Sessions

Programs at ‘home Programs abroad
C) Over 200 graduate and undergraduate (1) China—Chinese Culture
courses O) Dijon, France— French

OO Approaches to Teaching Writing

CO English as a Foreign Language

(J Government Internships

CO High School Programs

C] Intercultural Training

C Interpretation and Translation Institute
C) Language Courses

O Fiesole, Italy —Italian
oO Greece —Life and Thought
in Ancient Greece
O Leningrad, U.S.S.R.—Russian

CO) Oxford, England— Business
Administration
O) Quito, Ecuador—Spanish

C Liberation Theology Conference O Trier, West Germany —German
© Literary Criticism

_O LSA/TESOL Institute Send more information:
O) Parish Workshop Name

O Sacred Scripture Institute
Address.

Sessions

Pre—May 20-June 14
First—June 10-July 12
8-Week Cross Session—June 10-August 2 SSCE—Georgetown University
6-Week Cross Session—June 24-August 2 306 Intercultural Center
Second—July 15-August 16 Washington, D.C. 20057

Georgetown University is en equal opportunity/affirmative action institution in employment and adwissions.

Zip.
Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to:

James Taylor Crosby, Stills, & Nash America

Jackson Browne The Beatle; #e8s Sauna The Eagles
The Doobie Brothers Warren Zevon 4/¥Is Costello

sat Ntevens

Simon &6 Garfunkel

Fleetwood Mac Dar Sagelaceg

etc. ,etc,

fantastic
originals!!!

SPRIDF 1c, (GOODRICH, & (ZOGGIN

Gan Ream to Davidson on fi) A pril 26th

ACcConcert 200 Room intimate oe oe Show

Tania Wt! |

