Friday, February 15, 1985/The Davidsonian 3

Football Team
Favors Sypult
As Next Coach

By STEVE MANK

Members of the football team re-
cently expressed their concern over the
selection of a new head coach.

Since former head coach Ed Farrell’s
departure last month, athletic director
Kit Morris has been conducting a search
for a replacement. Members of the team,
however, are dissatisfied with the
search’s progress. ‘Our training is suf-
fering because we don’t have a coach,”
junior Russ West said.

Many players said they would prefer
to let assistant coach Jim Sypult move
into Farrell’s position. Although Sypult
is acting as head coach, he has no real au-
thority over the players. “Since Sypult
might not even be here next season, a lot
of players aren’t even working out,”
West said.

Some team members feel that the
training necessary for a new coach to
work in the already small squad would
diminish it even further. “If he [the new
coach] wants to find out who the best hit-
ters are, he’s going to make everyone hit
that'll cause injuries,” West said.
“Sypult already has a good knowledge of
who can do what.”

Morris, however, believes the choos-
ing of a new coach is too important a de-
cision to make hastily. Although he feels
that the team needs to have acoach soon,
Morris said he should not let the urgency
of the situation determine the outcome —
“When there’s an absence at the helm,
there’s likely to be a certain amount of
suffering,” Morris stated.

Morris said he may not name a new
coach by March 1; he said he will choose
Farrell’s successor as close to that date as
possible.

He outlined four guidelines that the

Jim Sypult

new coach should embody: character and
integrity, an imaginative approach to the
football program, good leadership qual-
ities, and a desire to work with the un-
usual program at Davidson.

Both Morris and players agreed that
the head coach will have to make some
major adjustments in order to fall into the
Davidson routine and to make the team
competitive — a team that has consis-
tently had losing seasons.

Although Morris mentioned no
names, he did not rule out the possibility
that Sypult might be head coach.

Some players believe the decision
has already been made. “Sypult is hold-
ing the team together. If they bring in a
new coach everyone will leave,” junior
Louis Krempel said.

Most feel that the ultimate goal of the
decision is to improve the team; how-
ever, views differ on how this should be
done. Morris thinks that the choice
should be made cautiously without rush-
ing. Some team members think that
Sypult is a natural choice and that no
further time should be wasted.

Morris says he is listening to players’
opinions and is sympathetic. His long-
term goals for the team are definite. “I
want the [football] program to be a vital
and vibrant part of student and communi-
ty life,” he said.

252 Freshmen Self-Select

By TOM SCHILLING

The Patterson Court Council (PCC)
determined the results of freshman Self-
selection Wednesday. Rusk House re-
ceived the most interest, accepting 20
women and placing 31 on the waiting
list. Ten people chose Emanon, and PAX
took in 30 and placed four on its waiting
list.

The fraternity houses all picked up
groups of 13 or more, and Kappa Alpha
Order and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity had
waiting lists. Spencer House, the new
all-women’s eating house on the Court,
signed 47 freshman women.

PCC president Murray Simpson re-
ported that “252 freshmen went through
the Self-selection system” this year while

around 100 did not. He thought the pro-
cess ran very smoothly and that the re-
sults looked “well-distributed through-
out the court.” He was glad to see the rel-
ative success of PAX and Phi Delta Theta
fraternity, which will take in 13 new
members.

He added that “PAX and Emanon
may have to work together to promote
co-ed eating on the court in the future.”

Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross
agreed that the remaining co-ed houses
will have to work harder. “Students seem
to be leaning toward single-sex eating
houses. I believe in offering a variety to
freshmen, and this includes the option of
co-ed dining.”” When asked about justifi-
cation for the new, third all-women’s

Communications

Self-Study Committee
Collects Student Surveys

By LISA THOMAS

The SGA Self-Study Committee has
finished recording data from the surveys
which were distributed to students in De-
cember. The student questionnaires are
part of a broader, campus-wide self-
Study project which should be complete
by November, according to psychology
Professor John Kelton, chairman of the
faculty self-study steering committee.

Kelton is optimistic about the im-
provements that may result from the self-
study project. “This study is especially
important in that there is a new president
— this is a particularly important time for
reassessing.”

Three different surveys were used to
gauge student opinion on government
and academic concerns, student ac-
tivities, and student services and phys-
ical resources. Two hundred of each sur-
vey were distributed to a random sample
of students. Of these 600 questionnaires,
only about 130 to 150 were returned, ac-
cording to Elizabeth Brooks who co-
chairs the SGA self-study committee
with SGA president John Laughlin.

According to Brooks, the percentage
of the surveys that were returned does not
constitute a representative sample of the
student body. Hgwever, Brooks said the
results do “point out problems and areas
that need to be revamped or questioned.”

Brooks was “a little disappointed” at
the number of surveys that were com-
pleted and returned. She attributed the
low reponse to students who did not fill
out the questionnaires and students. who
did fill them out but forgot to turn them
in. She also felt that she was “naive in ex-
pecting a 20-member student committee
to work so hard and to appreciate the seri-
ousness of the committee’s work.”

According to Kelton, ‘The students

house Ross replied, ‘‘We asked the ques-
tion: Would those refused admittance to
single-sex houses then resort to the co-ed
houses? The trend was not moving that
way. It favored a third women’s house.”

Ross said the Commons, in its fourth
year, was not built with any anticipation
of overwhelming court houses. Even
though it only operates one side of the
building, Ross stressed that it was “the
result of planning for a building which
would provide a good facility for many
large functions and would remain ade-
quate for any future needs of the Col-
lege.”

Junior Gina Triplet, next year’s pres-
ident at Emanon, was not worried about
the house’s low draw in Self-selection.

handled the surveythemselves. They did
all the work.”

The data gathered from the student
surveys will be presented to the chairmen
of 14 committees (including the student
committee), who will use the data to
compile reports later this spring to offer
suggestions for College improvements.
During the summer, a composite report
will be composed for the whole campus,
using information from the student ques-
tionnaire, a faculty questionnaire (which
is already completed), and a third ques-
tionnaire which the Trustees will be
asked to complete this weekend. “The
committee chairmen are the people who
asked the questions in the first place,”
Kelton said, with some questions added
by the SGA.

According to Kelton, the final self-
study report will be presented to the
Southern Association of Schools and
Colleges as Davidson's request to renew
its accreditation as an institution of
higher learning. The Commission on
College will send representatives to
Davidson in November to make a deci-
sion regarding the request. Kelton said
the accreditation “is not much of a ques-
tion for us,” but “every major institution
in the South is accredited or seeks ac-
creditation and for some of them there is
a question.”

The College undergoes a similar self-
study project at 10-year intervals. The

last of these was in the 1973-74 school
year when such improvements as the re-

novation of the science buildings and the
athletic facilities were suggested. Kelton
added that the College's current cur-

riculum is a result of the 1963-64 self-
study project. ‘Before that, we had much
more stringent requirements that re-
quired much more of the students’ time.”

Patterson Court Houses

She said, “We picked up a few new
members each term last year and hope to
again this year.” She acknowledged the
need to work harder to recruit members
and remains optimistic for next year.
Spencer house representative Connie
Clark said she was happy with the out-
come. “I was very pleased and I know
that we have a great group of girls.” The
house held a party in celebration
Wednesday night and, Clark said, de-
cided to go ahead with officer elections.
Overall, Patterson Court houses re-
ceived an even distribution of new mem-
bers. Most of them got about what they
expected. However, a _ significant
number of freshmen avoided the Court,
presumably to stay at the (~mmons.

Trustees Meet To Approve Budget For Coming Year

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

The Board of Trustees met Thursday
and Friday morning with the intention of
approving a new budget which would go
into effect July 1. Rick Love, assistant to
President Kuykendall, said “without a
doubt, the Board will have a budget
worked out by lunchtime Friday.” The
Board also planned to review the report
made by the Task Force on Racial and
Ethnic Concerns. ~~

According to Love, the first step in
the budget-making process involves the
President drafting a budget document.

The Finance Committee of the Board of
Trustees then reviews the President's
proposal. The Finance Committee ex-
pected to review Kuykendall’s proposal
Thursday and present their recommenda-
tions Friday morning.

Love said the Finance Committee is
“normally fairly supportive of the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget, yet they are by
no means locked into it. Very often, the
committee alters the proposal a little.”

The Finance Committee expected to
meet with the Personnel Committee
Thursday to receive recommendations

for the budget. Business Manager Bob
Currie and Comptroller Bob Davidson
are members of that Committee. The
Faculty, Student, and Administrative
Committee on Finance, chaired by phi-
losophy Professor Lance Stell, also
planned to meet with the Finance Com-
mittee Thursday to make suggestions.
According to Love, passage of a
budget is not usually difficult. Some ten-
sion does arise between the Faculty, Ad-
ministration, and the Trustees, he said,
because “the Trustees have historically
been committed to keeping the tuition

low compared to other colleges of the
same caliber [while] the faculty and staff
press for programatic improvement and
increased compensation.”

Love said either Kuykendall or Ben
Craig, the Chairman of the Board, would
probably present the policy statement on
racial and ethnic concerns to the Board
He added that Dean of Admissions and
Financial Aid John” Griffith and
mathematics Professor Bruce Jackson,
co-chairmen of the Task Force, would
likely attend the meeting at which the
policy statement was presented.
