10-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Kevin Horan, Executive Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor ‘Stephen Mank, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Apathy —

It seems like just two weeks ago we attempted this same message ina
humorous way. This time its not quite as funny. Apathy has overtaken
this campus and, like the flu bug that runs rampant in the winter, has in-
fected us all, to include not just students in general, but student leaders,
and yes, even the faculty.

Forum

At first glance the attendance at Tuesday’s SGA open forum brought
thoughts of the old saying, “Oh, the SGA is useless, anyhow.” But after
a couple minutes of serious thought, it became evident that the word
“useless” has become the Davidson apathetic response that typifies our
campus. The SGA is a very useful organization, without which students
would have little to no voice in many campus issues. They, too, as many
campus organizations this spring, decided it was time to get the kinks out
of their organization. Beadsie Woo made a bold step in opening up their
organization to critique by the entire campus. This was the time for you
to explain why the prevalent SGA phrase is useless—perhaps it is “‘use-
less” because of low campus involvement. Incidentally, the only people
who showed up, besides the members of the SGA panel, were one stu-
dent and one faculty member—Good Show, Davidson!

SGA Meeting

You may say, “but that is just one isolated incident.” It is just scratch-
ing the surface. Not to single out the SGA, Tuesday night was, perhaps,
the most important SGA meeting of the year: the approval of the ATC
budgets. ATC Chairperson Anne Miano noted the poor attendance and
relayed her disappointment. The SGA barely had a quorum. The David-
sonian and Quips and Cranks were the only organizations represented by
their student leaders and, as you know by now, the ATC made some seri-
ous cuts in student proposed budgets. The SGA senators who were pre-
sent seemed to have some question and to feel hesitant about a few of the
proposals, but no one was present to answer any questions. Bravo! What

will we do for an encore?

Considering the poor showing at convocation by underclassmen, the
encore Is self evident. Will anybody be at Graduation or shall we just
cancel it due to lack of interest? To quote, “Is anybody out there? Does
anybody really care?”

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich,
Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Stephen Mank, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison
Wills o

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Matt
Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad
Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von
Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes, David Soud. Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lam-
bert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts

Friday, May 3, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

coo NOW IF I CHANGE Roos A FEW
TIMES » AND SWITCH ROOMMATES
OFF-AND-ON » AND JOLIN TWo OR
MORE FRATERNITIES .o6 HEY /

BY SPRING TERM SEWIOR YEAR.
TLL BE EXACTLY WHERE I WANT

Letters

Critiasm
To the Editors:

I think that you are doing a good job
with The Davidsonian, however, I have one
complaint. I have just as much interest in
what is going to happen at Davidson as in
what I missed. I realize that events are pub-
licized on the back page, but the calendar
seldom goes into detail. For example, the
calendar told us that there was going to be a
May Day Festival, but it did not tell us that
Janet Stovall and Lauren Smith are going to
read their own poetry or that Alva Moore
was going to sing or even that it was an
event sponsored by every woman's group
on campus.

Beadsie’s letter about the SGA Forum
should have at best sparked interest in an ar-
ticle. At worst, the letter deserved an appro-
priate headline. Her letter had very little to
do with “Elections.”

Also, why was there a huge article on
Night Mother, a play that will not open for
another week, but there was nothing on the
Drama Department’s production of The
Tempest until after it opened (and even then
the article was short and vague). I think that
Night Mother is an important play, but The
Tempest is running first—and it involves
more people. Don’t you think that the tim-
ing was slightly off?

This is probably wishful thinking, but
maybe Davidson people would not-be as
apathetic if they are better informed.
Granted it is up to the individual to be in-

formed, but it does not help when each Fri-:

day we are told all about the events that we
missed.

Sarah Smith

Editor’s Note: An article on The Tem-
pest also appeared in the April 10 edition of
The Davidsonian.

Mistake

To the Editors:

There was a mistake in the article enti-
tled “ATC Cuts Proposed Budgets, Lacks
Funds,” in the April 26 issue of The David-
sonian. According to Peggy Pierotti, the
1985 Quips and Cranks received less
money from the Activities Tax Council than
it had asked for because of an addition mis-
take. This is not true. We received roughly

$2500 less because the ATC lacked funa.
and was forced to cut many of the publica-
tions’ budgets. The Davidsonians of early
May last year attest to this fact.

To cope with the lack of funds, the 1985
Quips and Cranks has cut all salaried posi-
tions (editors, darkroom, typists) and has
reduced the amount of colorin the book.
We have also increased our advertising
campaign. In all other respects, the book is
of the same quality as year past.

The Quips and Cranks Staff, 1985.

Civil Rights

To the Editors:

We would like to respond to the edito-
rial by James Lewis concerning the student
die-in sponsored by the Davidson College
Peace Coalition. Mr. Lewis asserts, “These
same students, however, should realize that
if they tried to hold a die-in in those coun-
tries in which America is trying to aid the
cause of freedom, those people would not
need to pretend to be dead, for the govern-
ments of those countries would make sure
they were dead . . . . members of the peace
coalition should be happy that they live ina
country where they have the right of free ex-
pression.” ;

We agree with the sentiment that we are
very lucky to live in a country where free-
dom of expression is permitted. Non-vio-
lent protestors, however, are not only in
danger under those governments the United
States is fighting against. Now and in the
past, our government has, for largely
economic reasons, supported totalitarian
regimes much more brutal and restrictive
than the government we are currently fight-
ing in Nicaragua. For instance, the U. S. is
currently supporting, both economically
and militarily, the government of
Guatemala where political opponents are
usually shot publically or simply disappear.
It is because of the tyranny of such far-right
governments that socialist and communist
movements are able to take power in coun-
tries like Vietnam and Nicaragua. Though
the current situation in Nicaragua is quite
different from that in Vietnam, if the United
States continues with the same foreign pol-
icy, the Nicaraguan government could be-
come as great an enemy to its people as that
of Vietnam.

Our country was founded because of
Opposition to an unjust ruler. The peace co-
alition die-in was staged in order to protest

