Friday, January 18, 1985/The Davidsonian 3

Z
Students gather during a Sunday memorial service to honor Dr. Mar tin Luther King Jr.

sociology Dept. To Undergo Changes

By DAVID VAN PELT

The new chairman of the Sociology
department will probably be named
sometime next month, according to
Vice-President of Academic Affairs and
Dean of Faculty T. C. Price Zimmer-
man.

According to Zimmerman, the new
chairman will determine curriculum
changes in the department based on the
recent departure of Professor Peter Ven-
turelli and the departure of visiting
sociology and anthropology Professor
James Wooten at the end of this year.

Venturelli left for a new teaching post
during Christmas break, Zimmermann
said. Venturelli’s contract extended to
the end of this school year, Zimmermann
said, but the administration agreed to his
early departure. “We could have insisted
that he fulfill the contract and remain

Sakharov Speaks On USS., Soviets, And

By TED WILSON

“They think every diplomat and jour-
nalist is a CIA agent and are paranoid
about dealing with everyone in foreign
countries,” said former KGB and CIA
agent Vladimir Sakharov of the Soviet
Union. Sakharov, who is known for his
keen insight into Soviet long-term policy
objectives, Soviet operations abroad,
guerilla training procedures, and Soviet
foreign economic, political and ideologi-
cal planning, spoke Monday night in a
full Love Auditorium.

Speaking on “The Middle East Con-
text of Soviet-American Relations,”
Sakharov said we have forgotten that
“the most important international issue
[and area] is the Middle East. There is a
lack of interest in the Middle East in the
academic and political society.”

He said American businesses show
little interest in the area. Americans now
represent | percent of the industry done
in that area, whereas 10 years ago,
American business conducted 40 percent
of the Middle East’s industry.

“It’s important for us to be present
with political, business interests in the
Middle East,” he said, suggesting the
Middle East will become the battleg-
round between the Soviet Union and the
United States.

Sakharov said the Soviet Union,
which has a long tradition of “wheeling
and dealing in the Middle East,” has
other reasons for being there besides

here through the spring, but we chose to
assist him in accepting a new position,”
he said.

Venturelli was teaching two courses
this term, “Introductory Sociology” and
“Society and the Individual.” Venturelli
returns to campus weekly to instruct stu-
.dents in the latter course, which involves
primarily one long research paper, Zim-
mermann said. Patrick Conover, a Char-
lotte sociologist, is now teaching the “In-
troductory Sociology” course, according
to Zimmermann.

Wooten will finish a two-year visi-
ting appointment at the end of the school
year, according to Zimmermann. “A vis-
iting appointment is different from a reg-
ular appointment,” he said. A regular ap-
pointment, he said, includes an evalua-
tion at the end of the contract period to
consider extending the appointment. A
visiting appointment does not include

seeking oil. He said the Soviet popula-
tion is declining. While the birthrate is
about one child per family, the average
life expectancy, now 62, is declining.
(Sakharov said later heavy drinking and
poor diet contribute to the decline.)

However, he said, while the Russian
population is declining, “the Soviet Mos-
lem population is increasing.” He ques-
tioned the degree of loyalty the Islamic
armed forces will have to the elitist Rus-
sian government. “The Russians are
making sure there is little foreign pre-
sence in foreign countries.”

He said the Russians are suspicious
of Americans, and “they perceive that it
is in America’s interest to get the Soviet
Union.

“Americans have their misconcep-
tions, also. It’s a misconception that (the
USSR] only deals with terrorists. They
are more sophisticated than that. They
prefer to deal with organizations that will
provide a nucleus and who will deal with
Soviet interests.”

The new generation of Russians has
been exposed to more western ways.
Sokharov said, “the old generation
touched and felt ... World War II.
They feel they built the Soviet state and
feel responsible for it and what goes on in
it.”

The younger generation, he said,
who enjoyed the Russian Renaissance
from 1962-67 lived in ‘‘a revolutionary
atmosphere.” They drank at cafés, were

this provision, he said.

Wooten said his departure may affect
curriculum concerning race relations “in
that no one currently on the staff teaches
in that area.” Wooten is teaching “Intro-
ductory Sociology” and “Race Rela-
tions” this term.

According to Zimmermann, courses
in race relations “are fundamental to the
ongoing program of the College and the
department and will certainly be sup-
plied. We have no intention to drop these
subjects from the currriculum.”

He said courses such as “Race Rela-
tions” may not be offered for several
terms, but “race relations is too impor-
tant to the whole community. to let it be
dropped.” Zimmermann said he is un-
sure whether all courses taught by Ven-
turelli will continue to be offered. The
new chairman will consider such cur-
riculum matters, he said.

Viadimir Sakharov
entertained by Holiday on Ice and the
Harleme Globetrotters, and listened to
jazz, he said.

“That phase stopped in '67, but the
new generation has something in the
back of their heads and their perception
of the United States is different.”

“The perceptions [we got] from
movies and foreign influence from the
Russian Renaissance” left them with “a
sense of helplessness after 1967. All the
freedom was gone that we once had be-
tween '62 and '67.”

Sakharov said knowing Arabic lan-
guages is key for the foreigners who deal

Turnout For
Election High

By LISA THOMAS

“The SGA is pleased with the number
of people who voted,” SGA Chancellor
and co-chairperson of the Elections
Council Christie Johnson said of Tues-
day’s winter term elections. According
to Johnson, the high turnout was “proba-
bly because of the publicity surrounding
the conflict with the by-law concerning
publicizing the elections.”

Fifty-three percent of the student
body registered in Tuesday's vote which
was postponed from Dec. 11 by an SGA
decision to suspend the by-laws and
move the elections to Jan. 15. The deci-
sion was in response to junior Rob Vau-
ghn’s claim that the Elections Council
had failed to provide sufficient publicity
for the election sign-ups. Vaughn won
the race for Union President.

Junior Dave Stout, who also an-
nounced his candidacy during the sign-
up extension was elected Union Social
Vice-President. Two offices, Union
Vice-President and editor of The David-
sonian remained uncontested after the
extension. .

According to co-chairperson of the
elections council, junior Jennifer Gotto,
“Winter term elections are like off-year
national elections, and don't usually
have a large turnout. The turnout was
probably the largest this school has seen
in a long time, and all of the races were
good, close races,” she said.

Election winners were: Rob Vaughn,
Union President, Lucinda Kellam,
Union Vice-President; Dave Stout,
Union Social Vice-President; John Ga-
things and Kevin Horan, editors of The
Davidsonian; Sara Beasley and Tommy
Cardwell, freshman advisors; Dana
Lemon and Pepper Bego, editors of The
Wildcat Handbook; and Anne Lambert,

President of the Y-Student Service
Corps.

Middle East

with the Middle East. He said the Soviets
have very rigorous Arabic language pro-
grams. Through speaking well, “You
can win their confidence and [better deal |
with the Arabians,” he said. “We [Amer-
icans] assume that everyone in the world
speaks English and if the Arabians don’t,
that’s tough.”

He said our foreign affairs educa-
tional system has some flaws. “We teach
our graduate students 1000 theories
based on one professor's thoughts.”
Then, Sakharov said, there are agents
who conduct “CIA clandestine opera-
tions who don't know much about
{them].”” He said, however, “American
students have a unique opportunity.

“We have a negative system of inter-
national studies but we have an excellent
opportunity within the system. It's up to
the individual to develop his abilities
[and] to find the right schools." He noted
that the lack of money in Middle East
studies as a large problem.

Sakharov said he sees no big break-
through in the developments of Soviet-
American relations in nuclear arms. He
says both sides realize the implications of
a nuclear war and the Soviets, too, want
to “protect their family and property.”

He said the Schultz-Gromyko talks
were “rating boasting. Negotiations, if
they continue, will take maybe ten years.
[I see] no immediate results. It is a posi-
tive and significant fact that the two
countries finally got together.”
