Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lucinda Kellam

The role of Union President is difficult
to define because it can entail as little or as
much as the individual puts into it. The spe-
cific responsibilities of the Union President
involve: interviewing and selecting the
committee chairs of the Union Board,
chairing the Union Board and Union Policy
Committee, ‘supervising Union program-
ming, interpreting the bylaws, etc. How-
ever, a good Union President should not
just address these issues at face value, but
take them a step further in their fulfillment.
For instance, instead of simply finding two
committee chairs, the Union president,
with the help of the two vice presidents,
should recruit, interview and select diverse
and motivated committee chairs who will
program activities that will appeal to the en-
tire college community. The Union Presi-
dent should be able to look beyond the
weekly programming and try to give direc-
tion to the Union as a whole. This particular
aspect will be crucial in the upcoming year
with the raise in the drinking age. Most of
all, the Union President should have the in-
itiative to help guide the Union as a whole
and the ability to motivate others to want to
help in this process.

I feel I am uniquely qualified to fulfill
the role of Union President for a number of
reasons. First, as co-curricular Vice Presi-
dent this year I have gained valuable experi-
ence that enables me to set higher goals for

Union President

a

the coming year. Having already partici-
pated in the selection of committee chair-
men, the Union Board, and the Policy Com-
mittee I have learned a great deal about the
administrative process of the Union. My
familiarity with this process of the Union
will make me more able to motivate others
to participate.

~ Secondly, I feel I possess an ability to
motivate and organize others well. This
year, as chairman of the Artists Series, my
committee sold out the season for only the
second time in the history of the series.
Most of all, I feel that these experiences,
combined with my personality, enable me
to perceive fairly well what the cultural and
social needs of the college community are. I
hope to be instrumental in helping the
Union accommodate the changing needs of
the college community by involving as
many people as we can. Lastly, I encourage
everyone to participate in Tuesday's elec-
tions and I would greatly appreciate your
support.

Alan Futral
On Sept. 1, 1986 the drinking age will
be raised to 21. I make this observation
neither in protest nor support, but to call to
light the imminent change that the new law
will bring to Davidson's social life. The

Union, with proper handling and energy,
will become even a larger part of every stu-
dent’s life. Over the last three years the Stu-
dent Union has made visible changes, and
has enjoyed unprecedented support from
the student body. The most pressing task of
the incoming officers is to insure this con-
tinual positive evolution. The Union is ona
roll, so the officers must be charged with
enough vigor and foresight to keep it rol-
ling.

I got involved with the Union as a
freshman when George Guise, Bobby
Houck and I were asked by Rob Vaughn to
play in the 900 Room on Friday afternoons.
From those meager beginnings (scarcely 20
people showed up to hear us croon) I went
on to help Rob with some other 900 Room
programs. Later, I was chosen as the 900
Room coordinator, a brand new title, and I
was given membership to the Union Board.
Both the official committee and board
membership were newly created positions.
My job as 900 Room coordinator was to
program events for the evenings, and more
importantly start the committee from
scratch. I had to define my job position,
convince people to help me and program
with little or no precedent to guide me.

Out of this confusion I managed to sol-
icit the help of some very capable people,
and together we developed the Friday Af-
ternoon Club, Monday Night Football, and
Cinema and Draft into subcommittees. Fri-

7

cd

day Afternoon Club now has many different
musicians, free food, t-shirts and a sizable
audience. An auditionary committee hods
tryouts and organizes the performances.
Cinema and Draft features popular films
and popcorn. We developed a program
called “A Night With . . .” in which a stu-
dent guest D.J. spins tunes from his favorite
band. Monday Night Football and Wonder-
dogs also doubled in attendance. Each one
of these programs has its own subcommit-
tee chairman, and-a committee that are part
of the 900 Room committee. Occasionally,
we issue a 900 Club calendar for a busy
week. I instigated the redecoration of the
room and programmed special social events
like open-mike, spaghetti dinners and the
900 Room opening party.

The Union is organized much in the
same way that the 900 Room committee is
now organized. It has many separate com-
mittees which program for the Union as a
whole. I have learned the value of harnes-
sing enthusiastic and creative people within
a framework in which the time and effort
they invest produces results semi-indepen-
dently of the larger organization. I believe
the President of the Union, like the 900
Room coordinator, must catalyze the ener-
gies of these separate committee chairmen,
organize them into a unified general pur-
pose and keep the ball rolling. Ihave proven
that I have this ability, and I'm eager to use
it. Please vote.

Matlock continued

(continued from page !)

was achieved was a fresh start,”
he said. Matlock emphasized that
the summit meetings set up a
structure for future interaction and
that they gave the U.S, and the
Soviet Union “real impetus in
negotiations under way.” He said
each party “agreed to accelerate
the work of our negotiations, to
concentrate on areas where there
is greatest common ground and to
apply a fifty percent reduction of
strategic weapons in appropriate

categories.” He said that substan-
tial agreement was made to
broaden contact between the two
nations.

In future years, Matlock said,
“we're going to have peace in any
event,” because both countries are
too rational to destroy each other.
However, the United States “will
have continued differences with”
the Soviet Union, and “there is no
reason to hope that the Soviet
Union will become a virtual ally

of the United States.”

Matlock said the future will
fall somewhere between utter nu-
clear war and a U.S.-Soviet al-
liance. “The question is whether
some of the friction and tension
will be replaced with a greater de-
gree of cooperation. This question
will be answered over the next
several months and years,” Mat-
lock said.

A shift by the Soviets to non-

A defense against cancer

can be cooked up in your kitchen.

There is evidence that diet
and cancer are related. Some
foods may promote cancer, while
others may protect you from it.

and respiratory
tract cancer are
cabbage, broccoli,
brussels sprouts,

military means to spread their in-
fluence, to elimination of the first
strike threat and to a new com-
pliance with past agreements in
the near future could lead to sig-
nificant progress to a stronger re-
lationship between the two super-
powers. “The Soviets have a
theory that they should support
national liberation movements.
There is no problem if the support
is economic or political, but it is a
problem if they send in arms and

fish and

troops,” Matlock said.

Matlock summarized the pros-
pects of the future of U.S.-Soviet
relations: ‘‘We do hope for a re-
lationship of less tension and more
cooperation. But we're not going
out and saying ‘this is a new
dawn.’ What we want to put into
place is a steady policy. one that
will not move with the ups and
downs and can attain American
objectives in the relationship in a
peaceful way.”

types of sausages smoked by tradi-
tiomu methods should be
é: eaten in moderation.

Be moderate in

consumption of alco-

hol also.
A good rule of

Foods related to lower-
ing the risk of cancer of the

larynx and esophagus all have

high amounts of carotene,
a form of Vitamin A which
is in cantaloupes, peaches,
broccoli, spinach, all dark

green leafy vegetables, sweet

potatoes, carrots, pumpkin,

winter Squash and tomatoes,

citrus fruits and brussels
sprouts.

Foods that may
help reduce the risk
of gastrointestinal

‘gale fades tay eng Lod ny

kohlrabi, cauliflower.

of colorectal cancer.

pee any erty

Fruits, vegetables, and whole-
grain cereals such as oatmeal, bran
and wheat may help lower the risk

Foods high in fats, salt- or
nitrite-cured foods like ham, and

so deter dq ay test

thumb is cut down on
fat and don tbe fat.
Weight reduction may
lower cancer risk. Our

12- year study of neariy a
million AMcricans uncovered

"ae high canccr risks particularly
~ among people 40% or more
overweight.

Now, more than ever, we
know vou can cook up your own
defense against cancer.

No one faces cancer alone.

1 mca CANCER SOCIETY

: sha ' ' it 6
ee eg ht Me Eta fre t wht.
