2

: Friday, September 20, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA Opens Committee Sign-Ups

SGA committee sign-ups have begun. Admissions, Athletics, Career Sym-
posium, Leadership Training, Phonathon, Rides Board, Security and Parking,
Student/Faculty Social, and Trustee Contact all have positions open. Sign-up in
the Dean of Students’ Office September 17 through October 1.

SGA Committee Hunts Student Summer J obs

In conjunction with SGA President Beadsie Woo’s recommendation of spe-
cific class projects, the Sophomore class announced plans for a summer job
search support system.

Sophomore senators Karen Kemerait, Ken Mobley and Sally Schilling, in
cooperation with the Careers Office, are helping students find summer jobs
through surveys concerning students’ past summer work experiences. The sur-
veys will be delivered today and be picked up on the afternoon of the 23rd (Mon-
day) by the SGA Dorm Senators.

They will be filed into a notebook and be available to students by December.
If you have any questions or would like an extra copy of the survey, contact Ken
Woods in the Careers Office (extension 132).

Material contributed by Sally Schilling.

CROP Walk To Be Held In October

The Davidson community’s 1985 CROP WALK will be held on Sunday,
Oct 6 at 2 p.m. Starting at the Village Green, the 10km walk raises money for
the worldwide development efforts of Church World Service/CROP through do-
nations collected by the walkers. Those interested in participating may obtain in-
formation at tables in Chambers and at the P.O. starting Wednesday , Sept. 25 or
by calling Dee Reynolds at 892-6329.

Alumni Office Trains Admissions Recruiters |

Last weekend the Davidson Alumni Office held the Annual Alumni Leader-
ship Conference. The Conference trains leaders in the Davidson Alumni Admis-
sions Program (DAAP) and the Annual Fund which includes the Living Endow-
ment, the Wildcat Club and WDAV. Approximately 150 alumni came to David-
son for the program.

One of the program’s main aims is to train members of the 34 DAAP teams
across the country responible for helping identify and recruit “able and outstand-
ing” students for Davidson. President Kuydendall and Ben Craig, Chairman of
the Board of Trustees, both addressed the group.

Davidson Cadet Graduates Top Of His Class

A senior history major Andrew Myers graduated top ROTC cadet out of 62
participants in the U.S. Army Ranger Course at Fort Benning, Ga.

He competed among 210 ROTC cadets from across the U.S. to participate in
the course. Of the 210 cadets, 62 were selected to participate and only 36
graduated.

In the two-month Ranger course, ROTC cadets, U.S. Military Academy
cadets, Army officers and selected enlisted personnel undergo rigorous training
with limited sleep and food in mountains near Dahlonega, Ga.; in the desert at
Dugway Proving Grounds, Utah; and in a swamp environment at Elgin Air
Force Base, Fla. Participants begin the course with 19 days of physical, leader-
ship, land navigation and demolitions training at Fort Benning.

Among other skills, the course develops leadership and decision making
abilities under conditions of stress. Training averages 19 hours daily during the
58-day course.

After graduating from Davidson College next spring, Myers will be com-
missioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army.

Ambassador To Address South African Policies

Ambassador to Somalia Peter Bridges will speak on U.S. policy toward
South Africa at Davidson Sept. 23. He is in the United States as one of a number
of ambassadors to African nations sent across America by President Ronald
Reagan to discuss his administration’s views and policy on South African apar-
theid.

Ambassador Bridges will make a public address at 7:30 pm Monday in the
900 Room.

A career Foreign Service Officer, Ambassador Bridges was called back to
Washington from his post for a recent Chiefs of Mission conference to discuss
developments in southern Africa and the administration’s response to them. At
Davidson, Ambassador Bridges will speak on that conference's results in addi-

News Summary

tion to U.S. policy toward Africa as a whole.

He comes to Davidson under the auspices of the Dean Rusk Program in In-
ternational Studies. Ambassador Jack Perry, director of the Rusk Program, said,
“Peter Bridges is one of the outstanding American career diplomats. We are par-
ticularly glad to welcome him to Davidson, where student interest in South Afri-
can divelopments is running high. He will make a solid contribution, I am sure.
to our year-long consideration of complex South African issues.”

Anative of Louisiana, Ambassador Bridges is a graduate of Dartmouth Col-
lege. He is one of the Foreign Service’s leading experts on Italy, having served
two tours there. In his last tour there, 1981-84, he was Deputy Chief of Mission
at the US Embassy in Rome. He is also known as a Soviet and East European
specialist, with tours in Moscow and Prague.

He has served in Panama, has worked in the State Department on United Na-
tions affairs and has been Ambassador to Somalia since Jan. 1985.

Ambassador Bridges’ speech at Davidson is open to the public at no charge.

Spring Term Scholarship Offered

The Scholarship Research Institute of Washington, DC, an organization
specializing in aiding students and their parents in their efforts to locate funds for
college, has announced the offering of three of its own $1000 scholarships.

Applicants must meet the following minimum criteria: undergraduate,
fulltime student, and GPA of 2.0 or above.

Students desiring further information should send a self- addressed stamped
envelope to Scholarship Research Institute, PO Box 50157 Washington, DC
20004

The deadline for applications is December 16, 1985. Awardees will be
notified by January 30, 1986.

Recipients will be selected based upon their academic performance, leader-
ship abilities, college and community activities.

These awards are for the Spring semester of the 1985-86 school year and
may be used for any expenses related directly or indirectly to the pursuance of
any academic major at the undergraduate level.

Mahoney Leads Student Group In India. -.. ....~.--.

Assistant professor of religion William Mahony is leading a group of 18 stu-
dents to India this fall in his fourth visit to that country.

He was in the country in 1971 and 1972, when war broke out between India
and Pakistan, and in 1984, when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assissinated.

Mahony has seen changes in India in the last 14 years, and he now sees the
country as an emerging, capable and confident nation. Public health has im-
proved, and there are more political parties, better technology, a more even-
keeled relationship with the United States and more Indian home industries,
Mahony said recently.

“In a lot of ways we all share the same hopes and aspirations,” Mahony said.
“India is the world’s largest democracy, and it’s a secular democracy. Indians
stress family and education. We all need our health, we all hope for the health of
our loved ones.

“I think a lot of times Americans are not sensitive to these similarities and we
tend to think of other people as ‘other,’ that is, different from us, and when you
start separating people like that, you invite dangerous misunderstanding.”

Mahony expects his students to realize that, culturally, India is more a conti-
nent than a country. India has more than 300 languages. Many groups of various
ethnic, racial, class, linguistic and religious backgrounds are bound politically,
but are extremely different culturally.

When questioned about his aims for the program, Mahoney said he wanted
his students to learn something about the similarities and differences between
India and the United States.

Students will live on a college campus near Madras in southern India for the
first five weeks of the 10-week term. They will examine archaeological monu-
ments, farming villages, health care centers and game preserves. In the other
five weeks, students will be on tour, looking at similar sites in central and north-
ern India. They will stay in state-run bungalows — similar to hostels — when
they travel.

After the term ends Nov. 11, students have time to tour individually and re-
turn to Davidson for winter term.

Mahony will teach three academic courses for Davidson College credit —
the history and culture of India, an introduction to the Tamil language, and an in-
dependent studies project. His wife Pamela is accompanying the group.

Term-in-India demonstrates Davidson College’s commitment to interna-
tional awareness and its traditional emphasis on South Asian studies, Mahony
said. Sixteen Davidson students and two students from other schools in the
South Atlantic States Association of South Asian and African Studies are par-
ticipating.

Mahony is a MacArthur assistant professor of religion. He is assistant editor
of The International Encyclopedia of Religion and has served as an editorial con-
sultant and contributor to Encyclopedia Britannica.

A 1973 Graduate of Williams College, Mahony earned the master of divinity
degree from Yale and received his PhD from the divinity school of the Univer-
sity of Chicago.

