4

Friday, March 22, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Four Compete For Student Goverment Presidency

Jay Gaither

My experience in local, regional, and state student gov-
ermment prior to Davidson encouraged interest in the SGA.
In terms of specific experience here, I have served as dorm
senator, which has given me the opportunity to judge the
SGA from the inside. This experience has heightened my
conviction that the SGA is oftentimes litle more than an or-
ganization that exists for the sole purpose of self perpetua-
tion. To support such a bold statement, consider the follow-
ing: my opponents can rattle off a string of involvement and
“service” that may sound impressive to the casual listener.
They assume that Davidson students would then conclude
that they have been helped, or served, by these people and
the professed accomplishments. But I and others say that
the SGA has done little to represent and enact the views of
students. In short, though my opponents have sat on many’
committees, established nice records for elections such as
this, and have functioned as effective bureaucrats, they
have failed to serve as an adequate vehicle in voicing stu-
dent concerns, In this sense, the SGA and many of its mem-
bers have merely perpetuated their own interests withoyt

addressing student needs. This is certainly not the fault of
individuals, but the fault of an inadequate structure of stu-
dent government.

Last year I ran for vice president on the platform of
broadening the base of student representation. I was sup-
ported on this issue by many students, yet nothing was done
by those elected. This issue touched every other issue at
Davidson, Now, particular concerns are addressed by dip-
ping into the convenient pool of senators and forming com-
mittees which ostensibly seek to determine student opin-
ion. But this procedure has often excluded the involvement
of freshmen, minorities, and athletes, toname a few. These
and other interest groups are shut out not because they are
apathetic; rather, the inherent structure of the SGA pre-
vents their participation. My experience is the realization
that the SGA has not fulfilled its purpose; my opponents’
experience has settled the SGA into this dangerous rut.

As stated earlier, my primary goal as president is to
broaden the base of representation. In order to provide
Davidson with a student forum large enough to possess a
true voice, I propose a “new and improved” senate based on
the ideals of democratic government. The present system is
inefficient in that a very small number of senators are given
the impossible task of interpreting and expressing the ideas
of a huge constituency. To whit: how many of you actually
know how you can make specific opinions heard? Our pre-
sent system provides few representatives with little dif-
ferentiation between them. The system I propose seeks to
establish a smaller student-to-senutor ratio necessary for ef-
fective representation and student involvement. Issues
such as race relations, athletics, Patterson Court, trustee

contact, and SGA procedure will be better addressed with a
more representative student government.

The reason I see increased student representation as my
primary goal is that I place more importance on student
ideas than my own personal interests. The duty of the presi-
dent and executive council is not to establish policy but to
react to and execute the ideas of a more democratic senate.
My opponents intend to continue to pursue their own per-
sonal goals within the present framework. I intend to ele-
vate thé feelings of students to the point where the voice of
the student government is the voice of the student body. I
urge each student to examine his or her needs and decide if
the present system really personifies student needs. If you
‘would like a greater voice in the SGA, vote Jay Gaither for
} sresident,

Edward Hay

During the past three years at Davidson, I have had the
opportunity to serve on the SGA Senate as Freshman Class
Senator, Sophomore Class President, and Junior Class
President. This experience has allowed me to become ex-
tremely familiar with the procedures, operations; and by-
laws of the SGA. I have served on SGA committees offer-
ing services to the campus as well as those dealing with
more immediate student issues. Through my committed at-
tendance at the weekly Senate Executive Committee meet-

ings as well as the weekly Senate meetings, themselves, I
have developed an excellent understanding of the purpose
and responsibilities of the SGA. My committee activities
include Rides Board Chairman (82-83,83-84), Faculty
Evaluation Committee (82-83), Elections Council Chair-
man (83-84), Leadership Training Committee (83-84 ,84-
85), SGA Weekend Committee (83-84), Career Sym-
posium Chairman (83-84,84-85), Trustee Contact Com-
mittee (84-85), Self-Study Committee (84-85), and Stu-
dent Conduct Council (83-84,84-85). On committees I
have served as chairman or as an active member in all
cases. In addition to practical SGA experience, I have par-
ticipated in many leadership seminars and workshops
through the North Carolina Fellows Program, both at
Davidson and at the Center for Creative leadership in
Greensboro, NC, and through the SGA Leadership Train-
ing Committee. These have given me an awareness of the
leadership and management skills necessary to most effec-
tively run an organization. Finally, my participation in a
wide variety of campus activities and organizations over
my three years has given the necessary contact with the
campus as a whole. I feel confident that I have the
leaderhsip skills and experience needed to do an excellent
job.

1 hope that the SGA’s role as an effective receiver and
communicator of student opinion and service- provider will
be improved upon and expanded. The framework for re-
ceiving and communicating student opinion is already set
up, for the most part, in the form of faculty committee and
advisory board appointments, the SGA Senate, and its
committees. With good leadership, hard work, and com-
mitment this framework can be revived and publicized so
that students and faculty, administration, and trustees will
know that it exists and will use it as itis intended to be used.
Service functions provided by the SGA to the campus can
also be improved upon and enhanced through strong
leadership. I feel strongly that the SGA can play a more sig-
nificant and effective role in the life of Davidson College if
it simply takes the time and effort needed to fulfill its re-
sponsibilities as stated in the SGA By-laws and in the
Davidson College Constitution. I am committed to making
the SGA live up to its purpose.

The role of the office of SGA President is one of lis- ~

tener, communicator, and facilitator. The SGA President
represents the opinions, attitudes, and feelings of the stu-
dent body to the faculty, administration, and trustees. Thus
he must have an effective method of getting student opinion
and be able to communicate it accurately. He has the re-
sponsibility of attending all faculty and board of trustee
meetings. The SGA President oversees the running of all
SGA functions, committees, and appointments. He pres-
ides over the weekly meetings of the Senate Executive
Committee and the Senate. The SGA President also serves
as a member of the Student Conduct Council, the Advisory
Council on Fiscal, Personnel, and Development, and the
Advisory Council on Campus Life (CCRL). I have the
qualifications needed to do an excellent job and I would be
honored to be able to serve as your next SGA President.

Beadsie We

What if we abolish student government? It is often re-
garded as a puppet of the administration, as an organization
bogged down with committees and bylaws, as a group of
senators who make hollow promises. So, why not just get
rid of it?

I believe SGA has a meaningful purpose: to present stu-
dent opinions, attitudes, problems, and suggestions to the
administrative policymakers via the SGA president and to
follow up that presentation with constructive solutions and
persistence until action is taken. The SGA president, in ad-
dition to acting as student tiason to the administration,
Trustees and faculty, should promote unity and provide di-
rection for the senate, and ensure that the senators con-
scientiously fulfill their duties as student repesentatives.

In my three years in student government, two as class
senator and one as SGA vice-president, I have learned the
importance of committees and under what conditions they
work most effectively. I also see the necessity of raising
student awareness and concern without which any SGA ac-
tion is weak and empty, and gladly accept the duties, re-
sponsibilities, and time commitment of the SGA president.
From this position and with my knowledge of student gov-

ernment, I can move forward to improve the SGA in those
areas which are deficient in meeting student needs.

An effective and innovative SGA president must have
the perception to gauge student opinions and attitudes, the
clarity of purpose and determination tojact on those opin-
ions for the betterment of the college community, and the
energy and enthusiam to perpetuate the support and activity
of the Senate. As SGA president, I would work hard to rep-
resent student opinion fairly and to respond quickly and
with conviction on issues of concern. I would focus on the
internal structure of the Senate, effecting change from
within. I propose that, as an extension of and supplement to
the upcoming bylaws revisions, the SGA undergo a self-
study to estimate strengths and weaknesses and to target
problem areas. If the SGA has an image problem, then
something must be wrong. I want to know what it is, and I
want to make it right.

I believe that the duties of SGA senators do not end with
weekly attendance at meetings; rather those duties should
extend to the concerns of the senators’ constituents and to
the issues which face the College. There must be motiva-
tion and sincerity within the senate: motivation to work and
sincerity in the belief that perseverance and hard work will
accomplish goals.

Student government is limited in its ability to be the
panacea for student problems only insofar as its leader-
ship’s vision and energy are limited. The SGA president
acts as a student leader, a liason to administrators and facul-
ty members, a diplomat, a representative of the students
and the College, and an insightful, informed, and creative
policymaker. It is a challenging job, I can do it.

Mickey McDonald

£

I have been involved in many varying activities on cam-
pus for the past year and a half and currently hold leader-
ship positions in most of these activities. Through this wide
participation, I have been exposed to a broad base of stu-
dents and student opinions, Now, I would like to bring
these various concerns to and represent the whole campus
in the position of Student Government President.

In the past year, I have been excited to see President
Kuykendall be more open to more and stronger student in-
volvement. Also, as a Self-Study subcommittee chairman.
I have seen the necessity of increased awareness of SGA
activities on campus and a need for stronger and more ac-
tivities in which the SGA takes part in—this is the student
opinion from many of those who completed the survey.

Two programs that have been quite successful in the
past and should be continued in much the same fashion are
SGA Weekend and the SGA Phonathon. I believe the cur-
rent BSC weekend is an integral part in encouraging minor-
ity students to attend Davidson. However, I would like to
see and help combine BSC and SGA weekends.

The committee and advisory board system is an integral
part of the SGA. However, I would like to see a greater
awareness of the advisory boards—signups to be on the
boards and the activities the board’s participate in and try to
implement. Also, it is important that the committees follow
through on their programs and actually work through the
completion of some of their ideas and implemented pro-
grams.

Important issues that must receive continued attention
are the parking (or lack thereof!), security and the best way
to handle the security problems—especially during the
weekends, the lack of computer availability, and minority
as well as women’s issues.

Two issues that are going to increase in importance next
year focus on intercollegiate sports and Patterson Court. I -
am concemed for the continuation of an active sports pro-
gram. I am also concerned about the continuation of strong
fraternities, women’s eating houses, coed eating houses,
and the BSC.

1 am excited about representing the entire campus next
year as SGA president and hope I can get a chance to bring
forth all the concerns | have seen this year, through this
position. ] ask for your support on March 26, but more im-
portantly, I hope each of you express your concern for next
year and the direction the SGA can take by voting for both
SGA offices in next Tuesday's elections.
