2

Western Union
Film Service

SGA End-of-the-Term Report

The “SGA End of the Term Report” is published as a supplement to and a
summary of the weekly SGA minutes. The Report is designed to inform the stu-
dent body of the SGA’ s work over the past ten weeks and to share plans for the
coming months. The following is the fall term report. Any suggestions or ques-
tions should be directed to any SGA senator or the committee chairpersons
below.

Twelve dorm senators, three freshmen class senators and three off-campus
senators were elected this fall. Working with these senators, and those class sen-
ators elected last spring, has facillitated our roles as President and Vice-Presi-
dent.

The ten committees of the SGA have been very active this past term carrying
out their responsibilities and planning events for winter and spring terms.

Admissions

With admissions counselor Steve Soud, the Admissions Committee has
been planning SGA Weekend ’86. The weekend of April 6th through 8th will
welcome over one hundred prospective students to Davidson.

[Vic Isaacs, -6267 or Karen Kemerait, -6759]
Athletics

The committee has been working with Sterling Martin in the development of
a physical education handbook. The handbook will highlight the courses offered
in the P.E. department, explaining time for committments, fees and require-
ments for credit. The handbook will be completed prior to spring term.

(Walt Gramley, -7398 or John McNichols, -6473]
Career Symposium

This year’s Career Symposium, to be held Jan. 14 through 16, features pro-
fessionals from fields ranging from architecture to medicine. They will be on
hand to meet with students in small groups to answer questions and to give ad-
vice. The symposium will also feature three open luncheons.

(Edward Hay, -6052]
Charter & Bylaws

The revision of the SGA Bylaws is almost complete. Ken Mobley and his
committee are working to make copies of the Bylaws available on reserve in the
library in January for inspection by the student body. All comments, questions
and criticisms are welcomed.

[Ken Mobley, -6613]
Leadership Training

Betsy Downs and her committee have planned a series of leadership work-
shops focusing on various aspects of leadership. The workshops will begin Jan.
20.

(Betsy Downs, -6316]
Phonathon

The Phonathon is underway! This. volunteer-fueled undertaking raises
money to offset the college’s operating costs which are not covered by tuition.
Student volunteers phone alumni and parents; there is a friendly competition be-
tween Patterson Court houses. Join in the fun before it ends Dec. 14.

{Dave Handy, -6248; Christi Hayes, -8626; Mark Sandy, -6409; or Hunter Rod-
dey, ext.115]
Rides

The Rides Committee provided transportation to the airport for over 70 stu-
dents prior to Thanksgiving break. This service will again operate prior to
Christmas break. Sign-ups for rides will be held in the lobby of Chambers.

[Olivier Van Dierdonck, -6052]
Security and Parking

Louis Zbinden and his committee have spent much of fall term working with
the security officers. Campus security officers are working to increase student
awareness of and regard for security and individual responsibility. There will be
a weekly column in the paper summarizing the campus security items of con-
cem. Security escorts are available upon request by using the phones installed on
second floor Chambers, in Cunningham and at the police hut. Replacement light
fixtures for the Patterson Court area are forthcoming.

[Louis Zbinden, -6323]
Student/Faculty Socials

The Coffee & Cokes organized by Sally Gray and Sally Schilling were quite
successful. Upcoming plans include an afternoon social with the jazz ensemble
performing.

[Sally Gray, -3598 or Sally Schilling, -7556]
Trustee Contact Committee

Anil Sood has organized a group of students who act as liasons with the trus-
tees. The students met with the trustees at their fall meeting and have since writ-
ten the trustees letters keeping them up-to-date about goings on at Davidson.

[Anil Sood, -6371]
Winter term elections will be held Tuesday, Dec. 17. Student Solicitors, De-

Shalom Christian

Bookstore

Inspirational Books, Gifts, Music
For God's Children of all ages

126 South Main Street
892-0166

Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Summary

fense Advisors, Freshmen Advisors, YSSC President, YSSC Vice-President,
Wildcat Handbook and Davidsonian editors will be elected. Polling places will
be in Chambers and the Union.

If you would like to learn more about SGA, come to our meetings. They are
held every Tuesday evening at 9 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Beadsie Woo
Christie Johnson

Prospective minority students to visit this weekend

About 60 minority high school juniors and seniors from Mecklenburg
County and the East Coast will visit Davidson Dec. 12-14 for a weekend called
“Davidson: College and Career Perspectives at a Highly Selective Liberal Arts
College.”

The students will arrive this afternoon and attend a reception and dinner in
the 900 Room. After the dinner, Patrick Hudson ’77 will speak on “The Value of
a Liberal Arts Education.” Hudson is a former assistant attorney general for
South Carolina and is now an attorney in Columbia, S.C.

On Friday students will attend classes, tour the campus, explore Davidson’s
facilities, meet with student leaders and other members of the community and af-
tend social events to experience college life at Davidson. Sessions will cover
making applications to college, college and student life, financing an education
and how students can take advantage of a Davidson education. The students will
leave campus Saturday morning.

Davidson’s Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has organized the
weekend, which is co-sponsored by the Black Student Coalition, the R.A.C.E:
(Racial Attitudes Conceming Everyone) committee and the Patterson Court
Council.

Music department to perform Christmas Vespers

The Davidson College Concert Choir, Wind Ensemble and organists Laura
McDonald and Wilmer Welsh will perform music by Giovanni Gabrieli, Diet-
rich Buxtehude, John Taverner, Heinrich Schutz and Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart in a Christmas Vespers service at 7:15 p.m. Dec. 15 in Davidson College
Presbyterian Church.

The Rev. Charles Summers, Davidson College chaplain, will preside. The
event is a part of the Vesper Concert Series and will be broadcast live on WDAV
(89.9 FM) in a program hosted by Program Director Susan Page beginning at 7
p.m. Offerings collected during the service will be given to the Uptown Day
Shelter, a program providing food, clothing and job counseling for homeless
people, sponsored by downtown churches in Charlotte.

Senators plan individual class projects

SGA underclass senators are working on individual class projects for the
first time.

The junior class distributed a survey concerning independent study to all
Davidson professors. The survey asked the professors what they believe can be
gained from independent study. The surveys were handed out to the professors
last week and are expected back by December 16. The junior class officers in-
tend to compile the results of the survey and publish a pamphlet before the spring
term registration. Junior class president Alex Maultsby said, “We won’t know
the format [of the pamphlet] until we get thet [the surveys] back.”

The sophomore class project is a summer jobs file. Surveys were distributed
to Davidson Students earlier this year asking them for their past sumer jobs. The
results of this survey will be put into a file that will be kept in the Career Office.
The file will be available for student use before the end of the school year.

The freshman class is planning a forum on alcohol awareness at Davidson
because the legal drinking age will rise to 21 next September. The freshman
class officers are trying to get state legislators, Davidson college officials, and
local police officers to speak and answer questions about the effect the new
drinking age will have on Patterson Court. This forum will be open to al students
and is scheduled for after Christmas.

Material contributed by David Bearce.

Sophomore class summer jobs notebook com-
pleted

The sophomore class SGA senators, in conjunction with the Career’s Office,
have completed a notebook of the surveys taken in September concerning stu-
dents’ 1985 summer jobs. Jobs are grouped both by geographical location and
types of jobs. The notebook and several job directories from the Carreer’s Office
will be available from Wednesday through Friday in front of Chambers Gallery.

After Friday, the notebook will be in the Careers’ Office from 10-2 p.m.
“This is an excellent time to get ideas for an interesting summer job before look-
ing during Christmas break,” sophomore class president Sally Schilling said.

Material contributed by Sally Schilling.

CAROLINA

BANK

Main St.
Davidson

892-7815

892-7805
Lake Norman

I-77 at Hwy 73

ss

