4 Friday, February 1, 1985/The Davidsonian

FIJI Fraternity Seeks To Change Its Image

By DAVID VAN PELT

The decision to close Fannie and
Mable at the end of the term marks a sig-
nificant event for Phi Gamma Delta, ap-
proximately half of whose members pre-
sently eat at F & M.

“It was a shock to me,” said fraternity
president Marshall Johnston of the clos-
ing. Though he said’ financial problems
have been evident at F & M for over a
year, “it seemed to me we would pull
through.”

Other FLJIs were less surprised by the
announcement. “I wouldn’t have been
surprised if we had closed in the fall,”
FIJI Boyd Blackburn said. “I think all the
members will tell you that it’s been pretty
visible over the past several years that it
(F & M] was going downhill.”

Johnston believes that the closing
will help FIJI. He said the association of
FIJI with the ailing F & M among
Davidson students harmed the frater-

Davidson Names New Sociology Dept.

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Sociology/Anthropology depart-
ment will have a new chairman begin-
ning next year.

Dr. Grant D. Jones, currently the
chairman of the Anthropology depart-
ment at Hamilton College, accepted
Davidson's offer Monday, according to
Vice-President of Academic Affairs and
Dean of Faculty T. C. Price Zimmer-
mann. Grant will visit Davidson the
week of March 25 to meet with depart-
ment members and to begin structuring
the department for next year, Zimmer-
mann said.

“IT would not expect to see any major
changes in the department in the coming
year,’ Zimmermann said. “I would ex-
pect the rostrum of courses to look pretty

nity’s attempts to recruit freshmen this
year. FIJI has only six pledges among the
freshman class.

Johnston said FIIs now eating at
F & M will disperse among other eating
houses, the Commons, and independent
eating next term. About half of the 32
FIJIs will eat in the Commons spring
term, Johnston said. Three or four of the
FIJIs now at F & M will eat at Emanon
next term, he said, about five will eat at
PAX, and eight or 10 will eat indepen-
dently. Johnston said this will give Phi
Gamma Delta the opportunity to rush
freshmen in the Commons and others in
the co-ed eating houses, and also give
new members the opportunity to belong
to a national fraternity and enjoy co-ed
eating.

Johnston said one result of the large
number of FIJIs eating at F & M is that
their attentions were often diverted to-
ward fraternity matters and away from

much the same next year.” He did say .

curriculum changes will be made to
accomodate the recent departure of Pro-
fessor Peter Venturelli and the comple-
tion of Professor James Wooten’s two-
year visiting term at the end of this year.

According to Zimmermann, Grant
will offer courses in his specialty, Cen-
tral American Anthropology. Grant is a
recognized authority on post-16th cen-
tury Mayan culture, Zimmermann said,
and has published numerous articles on
this subject.

According to Zimmermann, who
chaired the department search commit-
tee, “We actively sought out the best
qualified candidates we could find. We
didn't wait for people to come to us.” He
said, “We wanted someone with a strong

Missy Kuykendall

(continued from page |)

and Jamie, 16, has changed as a result.
“John is definitely spending more time
with work, so sometimes we’re lopsided
as a family,” she says. There’s a sense of
having to adjust to one member pulling
out. But we make up for that with vaca-
tions and such. Occasionally we have
truth-telling sessions and we decide that
it’s time for him to stay home.”

Kuykendall also feels the pressure of
adapting to a new environment. “That is
always a difficult adjustment, leaving
close relationships,” she says, “and com-
ing into a new community, it takes time
to build relationships.”

Tim and Jamie have coped well with
the move to Davidson and the switch to
North Meck High School. Kuykendall
says after visiting Auburn over Christ-
mas, her sons agreed that they would

(PO easeatesccgp ieee ome

rather be in Davidson.

Moving from a “cozy, small house”
in Auburn to Davidson’s oldest, grandest
residence would undoubtedly affect
one’s lifestyle, too. The president’s
home is so full of college heirlooms that
it is difficult to distinguish the Davidson
antiques from the Kuykendall’s decora-
tions. She appreciates the Davidson pre-
sence, however, and enjoys being so
close to the campus. “I’m always re-
minded it’s a part of the College, but we
get plenty of privacy. People respect
that.”

Missy Kuykendall does not revel in
her somewhat elevated status. “It’s not
my style to stand out in a crowd,” she
said. Interestingly enough, it is with just
that kind of grace and humility that she
already stands out at Davidson.

Natural

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.
28036
892-7521

— Treat your Valentine to Our Special Treats at Natural Resources

the eating house. According to Johnston,
all FIJIs considered the fraternity their
first priority, and the problems of the eat-
ing house did not dominate their atten-
tion. F & M’s financial problems “came
at exactly the same time we had to
examine ourselves, and find out why we
haven’t been as attractive to freshmen as
in the past,” Johnston said.

According to Johnston, FIJI associa-
tion with F & M has not been the frater-
nity’s greatest problem in recruiting
members.

“Our biggest problem over the last
couple of years has been the drug
image,” Johnston said. This year, he
said, FIJI has made a concerted effort to
combat that image. FIJI invited a repre-
sentative from the national fraternity ear-
lier this year to advise Davidson’s chap-
ter on ways to improve its image, and
three weeks ago FIJI members signed a
commitment not to use drugs or condone

teaching record as well as established
scholarly credentials.” Grant visited
Davidson twice in January for interviews
and was offered the Sociology/An-
thropology chairmanship last week.

One change Zimmermann invisions
in the Sociology/Anthropology depart-
ment is a more evenly balanced cur-
riculum between Sociology and An-
thropology courses. The department this
year has employed four sociology pro-
fessors and two anthropology professors.

the use of them by other members.

The commitment prohibits drug use
completely, not just inside the fraternity
house; Johnson said. Though national
regulations forbid drug use among chap-
ters, Johnston said, “we realized we had
enough of an apathy problem that we had
to spell it out.” According to Blackburn,
FIJIs are taking the drug commitment
seriously. Several members were unable
to sign the agreement, he said, and left
the fraternity. FIJI also instituted a list of

_ minimum requirements for fraternity

members, such, as community service
and attending meetings.

Despite FIJI’s poor rushing class this
year, Johnston said FIJI faces no danger
of folding. Because FIJI does not run an
eating house, its only major expense is
the payments on its fraternity house.

FIJI membership has gone as low as
nine since the fraternity went off. campus
in 1972, according to Blackburn.

Chai

Zimmermann said this ratio will likely
change to constitute a more even ratio be-
tween Sociology and Anthropology
study at Davidson.

Jones received his B. A. degree from
Florida State University in 1963, and his
M. A. and Ph. D. degrees from Bran-
deis University in 1967 and 1969, re-
spectively. He has been on the faculty at
Hamilton College in New York since

1968, and has chaired the anthropology
department there since 1983.

Reaction Panel Reports

(continued from page !)

of Davidson’s size.” The Panel recom-
mends Davidson recruit more blacks that
are not athletes.

The Panel “agreed that there is a need
to increase the number of black role mod-
els on the faculty and professional staffs.
This problem may appear on the surface
to be insurmountable, but in our view it
can be achieved . . . resources in terms
of blacks are available. Davidson must
be willing to compete for them.”

Another high concern for the Panel
was the attrition rate among black stu-
dents at Davidson. “It was significant to
note that black athletes seemed to cope
and meet the standards in greater percen-
tages than non-athletes.” An improved
environment and support structure, in-
cluding tutoring programs, would al-
leviate black student attrition here, the
report says.

“There was a distinct impression
among non-academic staff members, in
whom the students have confidence, that
if they made an attempt to assist a student
by referring them to the proper depart-
ment for help, it is the death nail in the
student’s failure at Davidson.”

Turning to the presence of black

studies in Davidson’s academic pro-
gram, the Panel stated: ‘““We question,
given the past history of Davidson,
whether there are sufficient faculty sensi-
tive enough to the black experience to re-
late it positively . . . . It would probably
improve racial relations if a course on
race relations were a requirement.” The
panel also noted that two professors who
teach courses in race relations have left,
or will leave Davidson by the end of the
year.

The Panel suggests Davidson in-
crease black enrollment to a minimum of
12 percent of the student body by 1990.
Currently, Davidson’s 52 black students
represent approximately 4 percent of the
student population.

“It is felt that the existing track record
of Davidson College in the area of black
recruitment in spite of past attempts
leaves something to be desired. It is not
enough for Davidson to site the failures
of other ‘like’ institutions as an implied
justification that ‘we're not doing too
bad.’ By doing so, not only do we per-
petuate the unrest and constant criticism
in this area, but we also forfeit the oppor-
tunity to show more leadership.”

UNITED
CAROLINA

BANK

clo

Davidson
892-7815

Cornelius/Lake

137 N. Main St.

|-77 at Hwy 73

Norman
892-7805

