6

Friday, November 8, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

McCutcheon entertains with age-old approach to folk music

By MIKE STEPHENS

Appearing in the 900 Room last Tues-
day evening, riding on the coattails of over
three hundred years of musical self expres-
sion, John McCutcheon treated the David-
son campus and community to a journey
into the ageless dimension of folk music.

Armed only with a hammer dulcimer, a
pair of autoharps, a banjo, a fiddle, and a
Martin guitar, John McCutcheon brought to
life the ancient Celts of England and Scot-
land, the poor farmers of the Midwest, the
wind blowing through the trees of Ap-
palachia, and the carols of french and Ger-
man soldiers — the only weapon powerful
enough to stop World War I cold in its
tracks for a Christmas Eve soccer game.

“I like to take my audiences somewhere
with my music,” McCutcheon said, “I go
with them on a journey.”

The 900 Room was filled Tuesday
night, but not uncomfortably so. Some of
the people there were curious novitiates to
the world of folk music. Some came having
heard McCutcheon on a previous occasion,
fully expecting the remarkable performance
they received. Many came out of love for a
music which strips away the artificial light
of the modem world and allows one to see
the face of the performer — a face which re-
fiects the world of his songs.

“I sing about people for people,” he
said. One cannot listen to folk music with-
out seeing himself in the songs.

N
¢

John McCutcheon, 33 years old, was
born in a small town in northern Wisconsin.
One of a large family, he grew up on a farm
and received his first musical instrument, a
Sears Silvertone Guitar (“With a beautiful
orange, sunburst finish”) for his fourteenth
birthday.

“As a child, I wanted to be a rock and
roll drummer,” he told his audience. If his
skill with the hammer dulcimer, the most
recent addition to his musical repertoire, is
any indication, he would have made a fine
one. He explained that the 98-cent records
available at the local grocery store intro-
duced him to the music of Lefty Frizzell and
the Carter family, the essence of whose
music he recaptures in his concerts. During
his incomplete college career, he furthered
his musical interest by making use of
sociological field recordings of native folk
musicians.

He opened with “Little Birdie,” a tradi-
tional folk song performed by many musi-
cians (I first heard it as recorded by the
greenbriar Boys). As with most folk music,
“Little Birdie” gives one a glimpse of the
world through the eyes of its storyteller; a
storyteller himself, McCutcheon showed
the audience his own world in the music he
performed. Playing the banjo with the
speed and precision of a skilled pianist, he
related the familiar legend of John Henry,
the steel driver who challenged a steam drill
and won at the cost of his life. He also told

First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39
Davidson

Cornelius

Huntersville

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW

WILL BE VISITING DAVIDSON COLLEGE
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1985
FROM 9:00 to 12:00

Nan McNamara, Director of Recruitment
and Admission Services, will be available
to meet with students to talk about
the Law School and answer questions
about admissions.

Call the Office for Experential Programs
and Life/Work Planning for appointment

the story of a time when the steam drill chal-
lenged every man’s life, for in taking away
a steel man’s job, one stole not only his
pride but his food.

Folk music is not happy music, but it is
“human music. It’s music about
people.” The original folk artists, if the
term “original” is applicable to a genre
which draws for its very existence upon a
history as old as the earth from which its
performers were formed, did not sing as a
way to escape the troubles of a hard life.
They sang truthfully about that life, for such
a life lent itself not to fantasy or false hopes,
but to stark realism. The folk music
McCutcheon performed came not from the
minds and imaginations of its originators,
but from their souls.

The audience joined McCutcheon:
“May there always be sunshine, May there
always be blue skies, May there always be
Mama, may there always be me.” No one
hesitated to sing the simple verse in its na-
tive language, though written by a seven
year old Russian girl. The truth in the song
destroyed any walls separating the author
from her audience.

“People identify with the people in the
music I sing,” McCutcheon said. Through-

out the evening, his listeners were keenly

aware that his music made them identify
with those they might ordinarily distrust or
ignore.

John McCutcheon learned to play his

many instruments by seeking out the old
“masters” and watching them play. He does
not perform their music, however, for the
only claim even a master has to folk music
is tied up in the relationship between the
performer and the audience. The folk musi-
cian shares with his audience songs belong-
ing to no one, but which form a part of ev-
eryone’s life. The sweet melodies of the
hammer dulcimer and the smooth texture of
the autoharp contrast with the harsh blueg-
rass banjo and pounding guitar. Even with-
out words, the haunting melodies of
McCutcheon’s music beckon one to a time
where everything is not wrapped in plastic
and cooked in a microwave oven.
McCutcheon composed a fair portion of
the music he performed Tuesday, and a
good bit of it can be traced back to authors

still living. Much of the traditional folk

music he played has been recorded by ev-
eryone from Merle Travis to Bob Dylan. To
say, however, that one knows the origin of a
folk tune by knowing its author is only the
most shallow of judgments. To know the
origin of folk music, one must know the
characters of the songs. One must live
through the daily crisis facing the midwest-
ern farmer and play soccer with French and
German soldiers on Christmas Eve. To do
this requires not a history book nor a time
machine; it requires only that one listen to
the stories told in song by a folk singer such
as John McCutcheon.

CARS FOR RENT

U-Save Auto Rental

FOUR-DOORS AND TWO DOORS
$16 A DAY
FIRST 50 MILES FREE
INSURANCE OPTIONAL

TRUCKS FOR ONLY $20 A DAY!

CALL: 664-2763 To Reserve A Car
Night and Day Service

SEE: Dean Barnette or Sonny Stutts

Port City Motor Co.

Mooresville, N.C.

