Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian 7

Of The House Of Usher: A Cautionary Tale

Be no longer a Chaos, but a World, or even a
Worldkin. Produce! Produce! Were it but the pitifullest
infinitesimal fraction of a Product, produce it!
—Thomas Carlyle,
Sartor Resartus

This has not been a good week. The word came last
weekend that the family homestead sold (we call it the
Ponderosa, or “House of Usher” for short), so I hopped
Piedmont’s equivalent of the Concorde to help out with
the move in Music City (a three-minute flight from
CLT). I describe the highlights of the weekend as a
caution to anyone who thinks that a Mayflower
Moving Kit is any more help than a mess kit when it
comes to breaking familial camp.

Yes, I may be a rube, a greenhorn in matters
domestic; but I can tell when I’m being made light of.
Stop one: the Good-Yes Moving Co. These men —
surly, sullen, of few words — can smell a moving
neophyte a mile away. “So you’ll be real careful with
our stuff?” I asked, nodding in hopes they would start
nodding too. “Sign here,” the slippery-haired manager
answered.

A tour of the furniture storage facilities comforted
me enormously. “Temperature controlled? How

MORE OR LESS

BY
ANN MEADOR

controlled?” I ventured, knees knocking and teeth
chattering. “Well,” Mr. Glossy Head said, “we always
know what temperature it is in here. I’d say that’s
pretty controlled.” My nose went from blue to violet.

Assured now that our treasures would survive
unsullied, we returned to our little Biltmore House. All
we had to do now was remove years of accretion
placed in our little Manderley by the Troll of Additive
Vandalism. This troll is the one who finds out what a
family never uses, then puts lots of it in the attic and
basement. Most of these objects are larger than the
door through which they ostensibly entered the space;
that is a Troll trademark. Another clue: these objects
all date from 1973.

Given the high desireability of items such as

macrameé purses and pants with generous cuffs, our
attic task went quickly. The real grump producer was
yet to come. Kitchen. Rated R.

After packing our kitchen utensils I now
understand the beauty of the simple life. I'd trade all
the crock pots and ice jets in the kitchen of our Tara for
a knife and a box of matches. Maybe a piece of string.
And a spoon. My point is that we were unearthing
Carolingian devices from those cabinets. Two pastry
squirters and 16 peanut brittle tins from Aunt Idy do
not a kitchen make. Ours was a kitchen gone out of
bounds.

I must point out the truest fact of this tale. If you
plan to move the day after the Super Bowl, the moving
company will fake a snowstorm to delay the job,
because all their workers will be hung over. This is
what happened to us; so even as I write, the story is
unfinished. All the treasures of our Xanadu sit boxed
and crated (mostly boxed), waiting for Mr. Slippery
Head and his cohorts to toss them in their van (and I
have no doubt they'll toss them).

The moral of all this is simple. Streamline your life
at all costs. It’s not that I think our family is a bunch of
pack rats, it’s just that I think that saving shiny paper,
bits of string, and lint will ultimately slow us down.

e AW
First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39

Davidson

Cornelius Huntersville

BUFFET
—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

Sunday Tues., Wed.
12 Noon & Thurs.
‘til frm TRON olay is 5 P.M.
9:00 P.M. are sta WEY til 9 P.M.

241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030
Meal Includes:

é

SPAGH ETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESON— ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES

* WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

PIZZA Still Mooresville’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANAD: “N BACON
ITAL &%. SAUSAGE
CHCICt BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK

CHICKEN NOODLE

CHILI CON CARNE

$#89

PER

ALL FOR PERSON

SPECIAL RATES
FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25‘ PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

Splash: Mermaid Adds

New Twist To A
Romantic Comedy

By CRAIG DETWEILER

Splash — Starring Tom Hanks,
Daryl Hannah, Eugene Levy, and John
Candy. Directed by Ron Howard. A
1984 release. ***1/3*.

Comedy is sort of funny. It’s hard to
categorize, memorize, or ’ plagiarize.
Different people, cultures, and age
groups respond to widely divergent
forms of humor.“Vi ing Splash in a
Salisbury, England movie theatre on a
Friday night last summer, I realized the
humor gap that separates England from
America, like mammals from amphi-
bians.

While I laughed at the broad, obvious
gags of Splash, my British surroundings
remained curiously silent. Ron How-
ard’s Splash harkens back to the inno-
cent, screwball comedies of Hollywood
in the 1930s. Splash contains an arresting
combination of fantasy, romance, and
comedy that assures entertainment.

The skimpy plot suggests that a boat-
ing accident of a young boy can spark a
deep love within his rescuer, a friendly
neighborhood mermaid. As the boy
gradually becomes an _ adult food
wholesaler in New York City, the mer-
maid blossoms into a ravishing beauty.
Splash takes off from what happens
when the mermaid decides to find her
lost love in the Big Apple.

From her naked arrival at the Statue
of Liberty, the mermaid (named Madi-
son after the avenue) undergoes the pain-
ful adjustments facing any newcomer to
New York City. Madison's arrival at the
Statue of Liberty suggests that she is an
immigrant about to undergo a trying in-
troduction to American life. Only a real
prince charming, like the lonely food dis-
tributor, can rescue the mermaid from
the evil forces throughout New York.

The comedy revolves around the ab-
surdities evident in commercial Ameri-
can culture that its inhabitants cannot
perceive. Perhaps my British co-viewers
did not laugh because Splash is a dis-
tinctly American film about specifically

American taste and attitudes. In one of
the film’s funniest sequences, Madison
embarks upon a shopping spree, a famil-
iar endeavor to all true Americans. The
fascination she develops for television,
spending an entire day in the Stereo/
Video department, strikes us as humor-
ous because of its superficial excess.

Yet the real humor comes from
realizing how similar Madison's devo-
tion to TV comes to the actual American
situation. Madison becomes absorbed by
the American dream as sold by televis-
ion, and she takes her vocabulary from
its limited supplies. Lowell Ganz, Bruce
Jay Friedman, and Babaloo (Babaloo?)
Mandel compose an admirable script
combining satire, slapstick and romance.

The cast does an excellent job of ful-
filling their clearly defined roles. Tom
Hanks makes an effective, empathy-in-
ducing prince, trying to protect his inno
cent love. Daryl Hannah brings startling
beauty and genuine humor to her role as
the lost mermaid.

John Candy, playing Hank's lecher-
ous brother, provides the necessary raun-
chiness, grossness, and broadness to pad
the comic episodes. Only Eugene Levy
as a cruel scientist seems to overplay his
role, supplying more contempt than
comedy with his heartless character.

Like most current comedies, Splash
runs out of material and dissolves into a
long, closing chase, but enough divert-
ing laughs are offered during the film's
first 3/4's. Splash captures the clean,
rolicking fun of early Hollywood com-
edies. Boy meets girl, boy loves girl, boy
almost loses girl, but love ultimately
conquers all.

A warm, entertaining evening at the
movies for a chilly Midwinters weekend
can be found with Splash. If you've got a
genuine, light sense of humor, are wil-
ling to laugh at American ideals, and suf-
fer through melodramatic chases, then
Splash will supply refreshment for your
impoverished American comedy quo-
trent.
