8
— Who's On First ?

Friday, March 22, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN ==

Spring Prospects Hopeful For Davidson Athletics

By ANDY BARRON
The beginning of spring term is a
tough time to realize you are sports editor
of The Davidsonian. If you don’t believe
me, ask Steve Byers. Spring training and
NCAA basketball don’t leave much time
for writing columns, or doing any class
work for that matter. Yet this spring
holds a lot of promise for Davidson athle-
tics. The women’s tennis team defends
their national championship, the men’s
tennis team looks strong and the baseball
team has some pitchers to complement a
brimming arsenal of sluggers. Yes, it
should be a good term to be a Wildcat.
Before mentioning the hopes of the
future, I want to extend my congratula-
tions to last term's overachievers. After
being told they would finish last in the
Southern Conference basketball title
hunt, Davidson proceeded to play hard in
every game and surprise a lot of people.
Too many close losses placed Davidson
seventh in the conference race. With ev-
eryone returning, next year seems prom-
ising. On the individual level, freshman
Derek Rucker made second team all con-
ference and was runner-up in freshman of
the year voting. Jeff Himes joined
Rucker on the all-freshmen team.
Davidson wrestling captain Mike
Keeley deserves recognition for his
accomplishments this winter. The 158-
pound senior finished second in the
NAIA District 26 tournament: Keeley
was 14-9 for the year, including winning
the Washington and Lee tournamnet, and
was eliminated in the Southern Confer-
ence by the eventual winner in his class.
Congratulations to all winter term
IMAC champions. KA’s Supreme Court
successfully defended their men's A-

league championship and the Ubbies”

ended upon on top of the B-league pile.
BEP&F won the women’s league crown.
For a more detailed account see the arti-
cle hv IMAC aficionados Hunter Gourley

and Steve Byers.

The street hockey crown went to the
End of the World. The guys from Grey
House beat the Irresistable Force 5-3 in
the championship game. I shall now be
presumptuous and name the All-League
team for street hockey. The envelope
please! (Just imagine the drumroll!)
From End of the World: senior Mike Luf-
kin and juniors Sedge Gray and Tom
Ghirardelli. From the Irrestable Force
Pete Burr, sophomore Rich Link, and
freshman Josh Buddle. Last, but not
least, junior Chip Craig and sophomore
Emil Cekada from the Immovable Ob-
ject. Any objection to these selections
should be reconsidered.

Tennis °

The biggest story this spring remains
the women’s tennis team’s defense of
their 1984 NCAA Divison III national
championship. Davidson was ranked
number one in the pre-season poll. In ad-
dition, junior Caroline Barclay was given
pre-season All-American honors. Be
sure to come watch the Lady Cats play
this season. After all, they are defending
the only national championship David-
son has ever won.

This should also be a good spring for
the men’s tennis team. Davidson features
three freshmen in the six single positions.
Though that makes for a young squad,
talent and effort exist in abundance. In
junior Sedge Gray and sophomore Hayes
Dallas Davidson has two excellent sing-
les players. As coach Jeff Frank said.
“Sedge can play on the same level as the
top players in the nation.” Go out and
catch some quality tennis this spring at.
Davidson; it’s your school and it’s free.

Baseball |
If you are out in the neighborhood of
Knox dorm and you hear a metallic crack
followed by a roar of human approval,
you may have just missed a home run by
one of the Davidson baseball team’s

relationships in an inform

many sluggers. Home runs were not
common last year; but with freshmen Bill
Masse, Alan Lewis and Terry Rupp join-
ing sophomore David Turgeon and junior
Scott Weaver, the ball boys should ex-
pect to spend a lot of time in the pine trees
searching for home run balls. Add this
year’s increase in pitching talent and it
isn’t difficult to understand the baseball
team’s enthusiasm this year.

Basketball

What would a spring sports column
be without NCAA basketball predic-
tions? As I write, only sixteen teams sur-
vive. In a daring move I picked Geo-
rgetown to win it all and they have yet to
be eliminated. However, anyone who
knows my prediction proficiency already
realizes that since I predicted Geo-
rgetown would win, they won’t. For
those of you who won’t be able to watch
the games this weekend, here’s what will
happen.

In the east region Georgetown will
allow Loyola to get close late in the game
before blowing them away. As for Il-
linois-Georgia Tech, I hate to tell all the
Atlanta folks, but IIlinois suddenly re-
membered they were a top five team back
at the beginning of the season. So long,
Georgia Tech. Georgetown will make
their third appearance in the last four
years at the final four after teaching Il-
linois a big lesson. By the way, the east
region had no upsets in the first two
rounds. Imagine that!

My only feelings in the southeast re-
gion is who cares since Kansas lost. |
guess the scant numbers of UNC fans on.
this campus do care. UNC plays Aubum,
a team that reminds me of the Georgia
team that went to the final four two years
ago. Georgia beat UNC that year and Au-
bum will do the same this year. For some
reason I think Maryland will beat Vil-
lanova and then strike the midnight hour

on Auburn’s cinderella story. I’m sure

someone will let me know if UNC hap-
pens to win.

Memphis State will win the mid-west
region. Why? Because the guys from
Elvis-land have won so far without much
help from All-American Keith Lee. Be-
sides, I hate Oklahoma and would rather
see anybody win the region that the Soon-
ers. Memphis State will nip Boston Col-
lege and Oklahoma will halt all deliveries
by Louisiana Tech star Karl (The Mail-
man) Malone to set up a meeting between
two teams Kansas beat. (Yes, I am bit-
ter!) Oklahoma All-American Wayman
Tisdale will find himself between two
Memphis State trees (the 6-10 Lee and 7-
0 William Bradford) and unable to propel
Oklahoma to the final four.

How is Kentucky still in the NCAA
tournament? Actually, how did they get
in the NCAA tournament? If anyone
knows the answers to these questions,
please get in touch with me as soon as
possible. Not that it matters; St. Johns’
will ground Kenny (Sky) Walker and
play Alabama in the regional finals.
Alabama has played well recently, re-
bounds well and will beat N.C. State. ?'m
not as confident about this pick as my
other prediction concerning the battle of
the NASCAR states (UNC vs. Aubum),
but I'll be gutsy. Once again, St. Johns’
will make thatquestion irrelevent by
beating whoever wins and representing
the west region in the final four.

Well that’s how the weekend will go.
Georgetown, St. John’s, Memphis State,
and Maryland get my nod to travel to

Lexington, Kentucky,‘to decide who is

the best team in college basketball. Next
week we'll see how well I did and list
championship predictions from faculty
and students. If you have a prediction.
get in touch with me and get your name in
the paper

Wake Forest University offers a full-time, two-year MBA
program unusually personal in its approach to graduate
education. The School emphasizes close student-faculty
atmosphere. The general man-
agement curriculum is composed of a highly integrated -

series of classes and experiences complemented by frequent contact with the
local business community.

Q Charles H. Babcock Fellowships and Grants, as well as graduate assistantships,

- are available to
grounds and ap
at the Babcock
and the experience is rewarding

return the attached coupon or call (919) 761-5422.

Babcock Graduate School

of Management

7659 Reynolda Station
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27109

Please send me ~~~
additional information
your resident

A program.

on
M

qualified students. Participants come from a variety of back-
lications are welcome from students in all majors. The schedule
chool is intense, the work is challenging, standards are high,

. In order to receive more information, simply

WAKE FOREST

BAU AN AMAT AR S dal ,Y
Name
Address
City
State Zip
