Opinions

| The Davidsonian
| Friday, March 22 , 1985 :

Hute Defends Concert Committee, Smith Show

Soott Huie

Trying to squelch a rumor, the saying goes, is like try-
ing to unring a bell. Nevertheless, I must stop the bell from
ringing and set the record straight. In his article “How
Should the Union Spend Concert Funds?” in the last edition
of The Davidsonian, Steven White questioned the justifica-
tion for the Union Concert Committee’s bringing a Con-
temporary Christian artist, Michael W. Smith, to perform
at Davidson College. I remained silent only tg let the con-
cert itself silence the critics. But since all the critics did not
attend, I shall now speak.

Overall, the show was one of the best this school has
ever seen. Many people remember fast spring's Thompson
Twins concert as tops, but in many respects, the Smith's,
show surpassed it. Not since Count Basie played here some
ten years ago has a Davidson concert sold out. Smith’s con-
cert sold out. Not since Count Basie played here has a
Davidson concert made a profit. Smith’s concert made a
profit. Furthermore, never before have so many students
been so involved in the promotion and the production of a
concert. To all those volunteers, I tip my hat and say
thanks.

The band also thought it was a great show. From Smith
all the way down to the keyboard roadie, the whole organi-
zation was a pleasure to work with. They loved playing
here and commended our efforts in making their first stop
on the tour a flawless production. On his glossy that now
hangs in the Union Concert Archives, Smith wrote, “To
Davidson, it was the best!” and he meant it. They even got a
kick out of Steven Mank’s preview of the concert, which

———__[__—— es
‘To Davichon, it was the best?

mistakenly stated that Smith was married to Amy Grant and
that she was “staying home with their newborn son.”

In light of such a successful concert, therefore, how can
White challenge the decision to bring this show to David-
son? He writes, “The initial fee for such a show could sub-
tract a very Significant amount of money from the concert
budget.” Wrong. Granted. this was an expensive show, but
it definitely was not a financial risk, and prior to signing the
contract, I made sure the concert would not lose much, if
any. money. First, I found out what other promoters were
paying; second, I did some market research in metropolitan
Charlotte; and third, I tested Davidson's interest. What I

found was that our deal was the best on the tour, that this
area was a booming market for this music, and that a large
minority of Davidson students were absolutely thrilled at
the prospects of having Smith perform here. Next, the con-
cert committee met and overwhelmingly supported the
idea. Then, after six weeks of deliberation, the Union
Board also approved having the concert. Only then did we
sign the contract. White’s argument that “the Union con-
cert people might have been more careful and considerate
with student money” is unfounded.

Around 200 Davidson students attended the show, but
about half of those are long-time fans of Smith, and for
them the concert was one of the biggest and most exciting
events during their years at Davidson. Many of them told
me so. Consequently, this concert met the needs of a large
minority of students, while at the same time it made money
for the school. Moreover, the purpose of the Union is not to
entertain the majority of the students with every event. That
is why we have the Artist Series, Chamber Music events,
and Fine Films. The Union seeks to accomodate the diverse
interests of the student body, and this concert has been a
part of that process. Another benefit of this concert was that
it did bring in so many outsiders, particularly high school
students. Exposing hundreds of students to the school in
such a positive manner is excellent public relations.

In his article, White questions, “Above all, are we sim-
ply getting this band because of certain connections?” Yes,
that link is my brother, John (Davidson Class of °78), vice
president of Frontier Booking in New York, who is also the
same connection who brought us such bands as the Police,
the Thompson Twins, the Fixx, REM, the Bangles, the
Producers, and Steel Pulse. Davidson has become famous
for getting artists on the verge of breaking into the big-time,
and John rightly advised me that Smith would fit into that
tradition.

This concert also represented a step into a progressive
form of music. Just read the Show Business article in last
week's Time magazine (Clarke, Gerald. ‘New Lyrics for
the Devil's Music,” p. 60). Here's an excerpt:

These new entertainers create sounds that have never
been heard in churches, sounds that range from
Stryper’s heavy beat to Michael Card's folk. from Un-
dercover’s punk rock to the mellow pop of Amy Grant.
Indistinguishable—except for their lyrics—from their
secular counterparts, these performers represent one of
the most interesting, fastest-growing trends in the music
world: Contemporary Christian music.

Throughout the performance, Smith spoke of love and

forgiveness. He shouted, “We're gonna rock for Jesus.”

and he even recited Psalm 139 during a break. A Davidson
student may be repulsed by these actions. He may think that
they are overindulgent in proselytism or reflect something
he does not wish to believe in. Nevertheless, that person
needs to recognize Davidson's heterogeneity. Some stu-
dents here are Christians and subscribe to the school’s
Statement of Purpose, which states, “Davidson recognizes
God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the
historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central
fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the
whole life.” Therefore, what's wrong with a Contemporary
Christian musician performing at a liberal arts college with
a strong Christian heritage, especially when many students
see a need for such music?

Every song hes a message, be it sex, drugs,

rinvelisn, gay thts , or Chritianity

Every song has a message, be it sex. drugs.
minimalism, gay rights, or Christianity. A reggae group.
Awareness Art Ensemble, will play at the Spring Frolies
concert next month, and the central theme of reggae music
is that Haile Selaisee is the Messiah, yet no one will likely
raise a stink about that. But throw in love, forgiveness, and
Jesus, and the roof comes tumbling down. U2, one of the
biggest pop groups around, plays Christian music and even
has prayer sessions before each concert, but no one would
challenge our bringing them here. Moreover. being a
Chrisitian is not a prerequisite for attending or enjoying a
Christian concert. After all, one doesn’t have to be a ras-
taferian to enjoy reggae music or gay to enjoy a Frankie
Goes to Hollywood concert.

Michael W. Smith and Kathy Troccoli both put on awe-
some shows. They didn’t try to knock people over the head
with Bibles or condemn non-Christians to Hell. They sim-
ply left Davidson that night leaving 1200 concert-goers
thoroughly entertained and feeling good inside. What was a
great concert became even better when, four nights later on
national television, Smith won the Grammy award for Best
Male Vocalist in Gospel Music. We got the best in the busi-
ness, made a profit for the schoo}, and served the interests
of a large minority of students. What's wrong with that?

Huie is a senior political science major from Atlanta, GA

Anti-Abortionist Argues Christian Viewpoint

Karl Lorentz

Toa child, pregnancy is an intriguing and awesome
process, and children behold enlarged wombs with won-
der. The scientific mind regards pregnancy as the “concate-
nation of biological macromolecules.” Does the en-
lightened knowledge of the scientist necessitate casting off
the reverence of the child? What is a fetus: the mere product
of a chemical reaction or a human life with intrinsic value?

The abortion issue rests totally on the preceding ques-
tion. If a fetus is a human being, abortion is murder. Few
people would attempt to justify murder; therefore, defenses
of abortion inevitably posit that the fetus is at some point
not as fully human as you and I. If a human fetus is allowed
to develop, it will reach a point where all people will con-
sider it fully human. A point must be designated at which
the fetus is considered human. Such designations make the
humanity of some adults equally suspect.

Why is one stage of development more human than
another? Is it the appearance of a fetus that makes its hu-
manity suspect? Some defenders of abortion support abor-
tions because the fetus cannot feel pain or survive outside
the womb. Brain development is a handy tool for determin-
ing humanness.

All life is in development, and all stages, from the fer-
tilized egg to death, are stages in life and growth. These
judgments are not quantitative, they cannot demonstrate
that a fetus is any less of a human life, Standards for deter-
mining the humanity of a fetus are inevitably qualitative.
and if we question the full humanity of a fetus because of
qualitative distinctions, we must begin questioning the hu-
manity of our neighbors.

If qualitative distinctions are employed to establish full
humanity, the distinctions lead us to alarming and en-
lightening conclusions. If brain development makes a
human, Mongoloids and the severely retarded are that
much less human. If appearance makes a man less than
human, Mongoloids with leprosy and elephantiasis had
better beware.

To choose whether or not to abort a fetus is to choose
whether or not to take a human life, and taking life is never
an acceptable option. As a Christian, I believe human life
has intrinsic worth. God created humanity and demonstrat-
ed His love for all people by sending His Son. It is incredi-
ble that rapists, Mongoloids, Communists, and students
are all objects of His love. He also loves the unborn child
and the incapacitated victim of senility.

What are the alternatives to abortion? Where can the
mother of an unwanted child tum to help? There are no easy

alternatives. Adoption cannot resolve all situations. A
career may be postponed. A college education may be diffi-
cult to secure. Middie-class families may have to make fi-
nancial adjustments to accomodate an extra family mem- ;
ber. The financial burdens are exponentially greater for the
poor household. The self-sacrifice necessary to love the
child of a rape may seem impossible to muster. but when
the forgiveness of Christ has been planted in a life. it be-
comes possible. No option is easy.

It is wrong that the total responsibility to raise the un-
wanted child will be laid on the mother’s back. Fathers beat
equal responsibility. but shirk it easily. Churches and ser-
vice organizations must step in to provide assistance in rais-
ing the child. The government must not shirk us duty to act
as an agent for mitigating poverty. Compassionate alterna
tives to abortion must be offered. These social solutions
will inevitably be imperfect. and ultimately the responsibil
ity to act falls on individuals.

The alternatives to abortion are not ideal. However.
legally legitimized murder is not an answer to social and
personal crises. The alternative to abortion is hope. human
life. Life always offers hope. and the tangible possibrlity ot
accepting Christ's hope makes life immeasurably precious

Lorenz is a junior English mayor from Marietta, GA.
