Friday, January 18, 1985/The Davidsonian 11

Football:‘Not As Much Fun As It Could Have Been’

(continued from page |)

As for my own experience, while
playing was not as much fun as it could
have been, it was in many ways reward-
ing. The team’s failure was certainly not
due to the lack of hard work. Making it
through this program was one of the most
challenging experiences of my life. Cir-
cuits, up-downs, and “gassers” have
bacome legendary in Coach Farrell's
reign, and they certainly were no picnic.

The challenges came off the field as
well. Davidson football players are
looked upon with contempt and treated
as if they don’t belong at the school. To
be a football player is to be an outcast.
This is somewhat of an exaggeration, but
it is not far from reality. | have never met
a football player who wasn’t proud to let
people know that he played football.

However, with the fall of a football
subculture and football players being
blamed for every broken window on
campus, you find yourself reluctant to
admit you are on the team. This atmos-
phere is demoralizing, especially for a
player who comes from a high school in
which football players are celebrities.
This accounts for the defensiveness and
closeness of football players.

There is absolutely no school spirit
for the football program at Davidson. Of
course, it is hard to get excited about a
losing team. However, I am not entirely
sure that a winning team would inspire
any school spirit. To be sure, losing is no
fun, and the team certainly did not accept
losing. But there is a certain reality to
football: bigger, faster, and stronger
teams will defeat smaller, slower, and
weaker teams most of the time.

It has been the case in my four years
that we have been the smaller, slower,
and weaker team on many Saturdays.
Realistically, we had little or no chance
of beating teams like Furman, Western
Carolina, James Madison, South
Carolina State, Lafayette and Lehigh,
which have been ranked in the Top 20 in
the nation at one time or another during
my four years here. I don’t see the team’s
chances improving, if the situation does
not change.

A new coaching staff may be able to

By STEVE BYERS

Forget the game. Super Bow! XIX
will be remembered not for Dan
Marino’s bullets or Joe Montana’s
scrambles, but for the blindside hit
ABC gave O. J. Simpson.

Instead of staying with its usual
trio of Frank Gifford, Don Meredith
and O. J., ABC, in its infinite wis-
dom, decided to replace O. J. in the
booth with a new face — Joe “Mum's
the Word” Theisman.

Remember at the beginning of the
season when Joe said he wasn’t going
to spout off this year? Well, I figure
good ol’ Joe changed his tune when he
saw just how much ABC was willing
to pay him for his infamous mouth.
And he should be familiar with the
Dolphins and 49ers; after all, both beat
Washington this season.

I’m sure Joe will blend in beauti-
fully, especially with “Dandy Don,”
but you've still got to feel sorry for
“The Juice.” Granted, he’s not the
most eloquent speaker I’ ve ever heard,
but to keep him on the sidelines for
ABC's biggest football telecast in a

— From The Concession Stand

Ready... Set... Super Bowl XIX!

squeeze out some wins over the likes of
Newberry or Bucknell, teams on our
level. In the long run, however, with the
team forced to play a full six-game
Southern Conference schedule, winning
consistently will be extremely difficult,
if not impossible. Davidson has commit-
ted the team to playing in the Southern
Conference. Now it must give the pro-
gram the financial backing necessary to
make it competitive.

It is my opinion that Davidson, if it
offers full scholarships, can be competi-

ML

tive in the conference. That would not re-
quire marginal student athletes to be
given any more special consideration
than they receive already. Football
players are not dumb. If Colgate, Penn
and Furman can win consistently, why
can't Davidson?

The coaching has been adequate, al-
though I feel as though the team’s talent
could have been better utilized. But | am
a player, not a coach. The recent resigna-
tion of Coach Farrell — although not
well timed — was a good move. The pro-

gram needed change, and his leaving fa-
cilitates that change.

Farrell’s departure throws the pro-
gram into uncertainty at a time when
players need to be working out, and,
more importantly, coaches need to be re-
cruiting. At this point, the program is
without direction.

This will certainly hurt the team not
only in the short run, but also in the long
run. Last year’s recruiting class) was
small not only in numbers but also in
physical size. The prospects for a better
recruiting year seem dim at best, with the
team not having a head coach.

In all honesty, if the program should
be dropped, now would be the perfect
time. As a former player, | would not
recommend this because the sport and
the players add some diversity to campus
life that 1s badly needed.

Being a football player at Davidson
has certainly been an odyssey — it has
had its ups and downs, its benefits and
costs. It is a worthwhile experience that
could be made even more worthwhile if
the college would give the program the
enthusiasm and respect it deserves. Hav-
ing read this, one might be inclined to
think that P’ve taken the sport too sert-
ously. After all, iUs only a game

True, it is a game, but when you've
spent every fall for the past 11 years, as |
have, playing football, 1t becomes more
than a game. You come to love it. You
become acutely aware of the rewards and
benefits of football. Because of the lack
of understanding and awareness in the
Davidson College community, the foot-
ball program is not what it could or
should be.

Davidson certainly will not be worse
off without a football program, but if the
college wants to mantain a team, why not
be committed to making it the best? As it
stands now, the team serves as a sacrifi-
cial lamb, so that the basketball team can
maintain membership in the Southern
Conference.

How can a college so committed to
excellence stand by and let its football
team be mediocre?

few years, and to replace him with a
newcomer, seems like a cheap shot. |
guess ABC thought O. J. had lost his
appeal after Eric Dickerson broke his
single-season rushing record.

“Let’s go to the 49ers’ bench,
where O. J. has San Francisco’s sec-
ond string water boy, O. J.?”

“Thanks, Frank. I’m talking with
Davey Dipstick here. Davey, are you
having a great time?”

“Yessir.”

“All right, Davey. I'll be back ina
few minutes with another fluff inter-
view. Back to you, Frank.”

Poor O. J. He never made it to the
Super Bowl as a player and now he
can’t make it as an analyst.

At least it is appropriate that there
will be two quarterbacks in the broad-
cast booth, becuase this game most de-
finitely will he a battle of two quarter-
backs. South.ern Florida brashness vs.
northern California cool. The quick re-
lease vs. the quick feet. The gunner vs.
the runner.

Even the receivers provide a study
in contrasts. Miami has the Marino
Corps, Mark II, or whatever the heck

their nickname is. Suffice it to say that
speed and good hands are a deadly
combination. Rarely do you see both
traits together, but the Dolphins are
blessed with Clayton and Duper. They
excel in scoring touchdowns, and they
love to do it on long passes.

Meanwhile, San Francisco coun-
ters with a decent running game, Russ
Francis at tight end and the scrambling
ability of Montana. His bread-and-but-
ter receiver is Dwight Clark, posses-
sion receiver in the mold of Fred Bilet-
nikoff. On the other side are Freddie
Solomon, a veteran who runs immacu-
late routes, and Renaldo “Skeets”
Nehemiah, still learning the game but
he can fly.

Where is the key to the game?
These teams look so evenly matched.
Don Shula is the best coach in the
AFC, while Bill Walsh is an offensive
genius without peer. Both offensive
lines are good, and both defenses are
above average. The difference might
be that the 49ers can run the ball a lit-
tle, while Miami relies almost exclu-
sively on the pass.

So far, that’s been all the Dolphins

have needed, but the 49ers’ secondary
just might be the best Marino has faced
all season.

Wha, if it comes down to a last-
second field goal? Personally, I don't
think much of either Uwe
Schamann or Ray Wersching. Special
teams? Both are above
neither very explosive.

Okay, quit stalling, quit stalling

who's gonna win and why?
Here's my opinion: if Marino gets
enough time to throw, the game's over
in ahurry. So the Niners’ defense must
do two things: not give up the quick six
— make Miami work for everything.
and get a superhuman pass rush from
its front four. Piece of cake, right? I
don't know what it is exactly, but |
have a hunch that Montana will have a
great game. He might show this young
whippersnapper a thing or two. Heck.
John Madden likes Montana
Marino — how can you argue with
that?

von

average,

over

Prediction No. 1: 49ers by six. Pre
diction No. 2: It will be a high-scoring
affair (a daring call, n'est pas”)

