Friday, September 20, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

— a weekly news summary
By JANE AURELL

Headlining the news for the week of Sep-
tember 11-18: |

Internationally—

President Reagan, followed shortly
by the EEC (excluding Great Britain), is-
sued limited sanctions against South Af-
rica. President Botha suggested a possi-
ble end to the “pass laws” as well as an
offer of renewed citizenship to blacks in
the four “independent” homelands.

these efforts sre part of a plan to disman-
tle apartheid. Bishop Tutu scoffed at the
proposals. Meanwhile, South African
business leaders met in Zambia with

{

South African Ambassador Beukes said

The Outside World In Brief

members of the outlawed ANC. South
African troops invaded Angola.

A high-ranking Soviet double agent
defected to Great Britain and disclosed
— to date — the names of 31 Soviet
agents who were then subsequently ex-
pelled by the Thatcher government. The
Soviet government has retaliated with the
expulsion of 31 Britons from the USSR,

coup attempt. China us making internal
political changes in an effort to “rejuve-
hate” her aging Politburo and move to-
ward modernization. Israel released the
last of the Shute Muslim detainees de-
manded by the TWA hijackers last June.
In West Germany, another top-level gov-
ernment employee — spy defected to
East Germany. The West German gov-

A truce has now been called by Great Bric _€pament_ announced plans to participate

tain. ',
In Central America, while Nicaragua
was busy making allegations against the
U.S. at the World Court, fighting broke
lo put along the Nicaraguan-Honduran bor-

vu, d6r. In El-Salvador, the daughter of Pres-

ident Duarte was kidnapped by leftist
gunmen; she is still missing.

.Elsewhere in the world — Thailand
experienced an unsuccessful military

in research for the U.S. “starwars” pro-
ject. In what may be a massive govern-
ment cover-up, two French agents are be-
lieved responsible for the sinking of the
Green Peace ship in New Zealand last
July. Reverend Weir, one of the seven
American hostages being held in Leba-
non, has been released; there is no new
word on the other six.

Domestically—

For the first time since 1914, the U.S.
— with a national debt of 1.8 trillion dol-
lars — has become a debtor nation.
Meanwhile, President Reagan (anti-pro-
tectionist) and Congress continue to bat-
tle over the issue of import quotas.

Also on the home front — The U.S.
military announced the successful com-
pletion of a critical ASAT test. A satel-
lite, in orbit since 1978, intercepted the
comet Glacobini-Zinner yielding new in-
formation about the composition of com-
ets. Finally, Pete Rose broke Ty Cobb’s
career hitting record — 4192... Yea,
Pete!

Thought for the Week:
“Great people are ordinary people in the
service of a great idea.”

— from Dr. Walter N. Kalaf

Davidson Attracts Many Transfer Students

By NELLE McCORKLE campus visit as the decisive fac-
Twelve transfer students en- tor.
rolled at Davidson for the 1985-86 Maurya MacNeil, of

academic year give varied reasons

for choosing the College.

“I felt it time to evolve into
more than a number,” reports
Mike Jarmon of Winston-Salem.
Of his decision to enroll at David-
son after two years at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Jarmon said the “perfect set-
ting” influenced his choice.

Tae Kim, of Carrolton, Texas,
selected Davidson for its ‘small
size,” which he called ‘ta wel-
comed change” from his former
college, the University of Texas at
Austin. Davidson’s location was a
factor in Kim’s decision, as it was
in Ranjit Rawlley’s of New Delhi,
India, formerly of Knox College.
Rawlley, an experienced hiker in
his native Himalayas, cited
Davidson’s proximity to “good
backpacking routes.”

Geography also helped Jon
Boles, of Tallahassee, Florida,
decide on Davidson. Boles re-
ported that he left Auburn Univer-

sity because, “I always wanted to.

go North to school.” He, like Bel-
ton Myers of Charlotte, cited a

Bethesda, Maryland, was looking
for a “small, challenging, but fun
school,” when she left the Univer-
sity of Vermont. Of Davidson,
MacNeil observed, ‘‘Everyone is
really friendly. I feel like I’ve
been here so long. Adjusting
wasn’t hard at all. I feel like I’m
part of Davidson after only a
week.” re

Ten transfer students are
sophomores, but two of these, Jar-
mon and Myers, lack only several
courses to become juniors. Of his
coming to Davidson after two
years at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Myers
ccommented on his desire to re-
turn to the small school atmos-
phere of his his school, the North
Carolina School of Science and
Mathematics.

While Kim praised David-
son’s “outstanding liberal arts
program,” Julie Lehman of At-
lanta, Georgia, and formerly of
Rhodes College, admitted that the
laundry service had been a factor
in her choice.

' After a week of classes, Boles

The new transfer students. First row: Belton Myers, Tae Kim, Maurya
MacNeil, Julie Lehman & Mike Jarmon. Second row: Jon Boles,

Sarah Longley, Julie Walsh & Ranjit Rawlley. Not pictured:

Artman, Laura Ross & Valerie Shaffer.

commented, “There are fantastic
Opportunities here.” Jarmon ob-
served simply, “too much to do.”

Other transfer students are:
Sarah Longley of Houston,

Texas, from Baylor University;
Julie Walsh of Essex, Connec-
ticut, from Carnegie-Mellon Uni-
versity; Jenny Artman of Scituate,
Massachusetts, from Brandeis

Jenny

University; Laura Ross of Con-
cord, North Carolina, from Salem
College; and Valerie Shaffer of
Monroeville, Pennsylvania, from
Alleghany College.

How To Be Safe At Davidson : Practical Steps To Take

Campus Security
By Ray Thrower

Davidson College is a community of
1,800 persons working, living and studying
on campus. As in virtually all communities,
public safety, crime and the loss of property
are daily concerns.

The Davidson College Public Safety
Office is responsible for the safety and se-
curity of the college community. This task
however is one we cannot accomplish
alone. We need the help of every student,
faculty and staff member. Security aware-
ness is a self-serving quality. As a property
owner you have a monetary interest to pro-
tecct yourself from becoming a victim. We
hope that you will be motivated to join us in
our effort to make Davidson College a safe

and secure environment to learn, live and
work in.

The Public Safety Office needs for you
to act as the eyes and ears of Davidson Col-
lege in order to assist us in our effort to deter
crime.

Over $11,000.00 of property was stolen
last school year. The two main reasons
were:

1) dormitory rooms were left open and
unattended.

2) dormitory room doors were closed
but not locked.

Here are a few tips to decrease your
chances of becoming a victim:

Be alert to strangers wandering aim-
lessly around your dormitory halls and
classrooms. A common ploy for such indi-
viduals bent on criminal intent is to say that
they are looking for someone. If you have
any Cause to doubt their sincerity, call Pub-
lic Safety at 892-5131.

Never leave valuables such as wallets,
purses or jewlery lying out in your room.
Place such articles in a locked drawer or
somewhere out of sight. If you leave your
room, lock the door and windows. It takes
only about eight seconds for someone to
walk into your room and remove your valu-
ables.

Do not carry large sums of money. Do
not leave your checkbook, currency or
other valuable items lying around campus
unattended. Be particularly careful in
places such as the 24 hour study room,
Chambers, the gym and other public areas.

Record the serial numbers, brand names
and descriptions of personal property or
valuables which are kept in your room.
Keep a duplicated copy of this information
at your home. Be an active participant in
our operation ID program. Engravers are
available at the Public Safety Office.

If you are entrusted with a key to a spe-

cific room, storage or lab area, make sure
the door is locked when your leave. Never
prop open a door for someone who might be
joining you later. You could be inviting un-
known persons into your area without your
knowledge. If a larceny does occur, report
it immediately. A delay of even one hour
could result in the individual not being ap-
prehended.

Be alert for suspicious characters, and
dangerous situations.

At night walk only on well-lit streets
and pathways. Remember the buddy sys-
tem, always walk in pairs or groups. Be se-
curity conscious at all times and you will be
less likely to become a crime statistic. Al-
ways let someone know where you are
going and how long you intend to be, if you
were not to return, they could be alerted to
this and if necessary contact authorities.

Public Safety will be happy to provide an
escort.
