Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Contras Like ‘Founding Fathers’

James Lewis

In recent weeks, and especially last week, opinions in
this publication have been brought to light that have made
me painfully aware of a certain attitude that permeates cer-
tain segments of the student body here. I am referring toa
complete lack of regard for the national security of our be-
loved country. Yes, I am referring to recent responses on
the current situation that has befallen Nicarauga.

First, I am not impervious to the fact that the freedom
i

First, I am not impervious to the fact
that the Freedom Fighters are mak-
ing a few tactical mistakes in their
quest for a free and just society. Iam
by no means, however, one of those
Self-righteous types who believe that
the oppressive Sandinistas are
heaven-sent

fighters are making a few tactical mistakes in their quest for
a free and just society. I am by no means, however, one of
those self-righteous types who believe that the oppressive
Sandinistas are heaven-sent. Behind the facade of a gov-
emment which supposedly cares only for increasing liter-
acy and improving healthcare, are a gang of self-proc-
laimed Marxist revolutionaries who threaten the safety and
stability of all Central America and ultimately of the United
States. To quote the current Sandinista Minister of De-
fense, Humberto Ortega: “Of course we are not ashamed to

/

hee Howse

_: ann

“UPVING [OWI

Sy THEA?

be helping {the revolution in) El Salvador. We would like
to help all revolutions.” The words of the Sandinistas
clearly show what their aims and beliefs are. Skeptics do
not have to listen to critics of the Sandinistas; they only
have to listen to the words of the Sandinista leaders.

I have heard complaints about the “grim reapings” of
the freedom fighters. Well, let me disclose some of the
“grim reapings” of the Sandinistas. Miskito Indians are a
physically, historically and culturally isolate minority
which inhabit the East Coast region of Nicaragua. The Mis-
kito Indians were allowed relative autonomy under the
former Somoza government. Under the new Marxist re-
gime, these peaceful Indians, however, are forced to en-
counter devestating repression- Marxist troops have vic-
iously attacked Miskito refugee camps, not hesitating even
for a moment of pity to destroy entire villages. I would cer-
tainly find it hard to say that these Indians subjected to arbi-
trary arrests, executions, interrogations, tortures, rapes,
theft, and destruction are any more able than other Nicara-
guan “children cut down in their youth by gunfire” to reach
their potential. No, we cannot just shut our eyes and pre-
tend these attorcities do not really exist, for they do indeed.

Now, a couple of weeks ago President Reagan com-
pared the freedom fighters to America’s “Founding
Fathers.” This comparison provoked shouts of pious indig-
nation from many segments. Upon close examination, one
discovers, however, that this comparison is valid indeed.
Before founding this country, our “Founding Fathers,” like
the freedom fighters of today, certainly were not saints.
They massacred Indians and owned slaves, but look at the
great democracy those people founded! Now with aid and
encouragement from our country, the freedom fighters
would have hope to be the “Founding Fathers” of a new
bastion of liberty and democracy.

Lewis is a freshman from Tucker, GA.

——_

——.

oN

N

11

Plagues Of
Contributions

Tim Brown

In 1974, the Supreme Court ruled on campaign con-
tributions in Buckley v. Valen. In making their deci-
sions, I wonder if the justices regarded the writings of
John Stuart Mill.

In this case, one side argued that there should be
limits on campaign contributions; that otherwise the rich
influence would overshadow the influence of the poor.
The other side argued that there should be no limits on
campaign contributions; that limits on campaign con-
tributions limit the liberty of free speech. The Supreme
Court satisfied both sides. Satisfying one side, it ap-
proved limiting an individual's campaign contribution
to $1,000 in the primary and to $1,000 in the general
election and a PAC’s campaign contribution to $5,000
in the primary and to $5,000 in the general election.
Satisfying the other side it did not limit an independent
committee's contribution. Unlike a PAC, an indepen-
dent committee acts independently of and does not con-
tribute directly to a candidate’s campaign committee.

In defense of the liberty of free speech, John Stuart
Mill might support having no limits on campaign con-
tributions. However, he would surely oppose the Su-
preme Court’s decision regarding the independent com-
mittee. Since it is independent of the candidate’s cam-
paign committee, the independent committee could pur-
posefully expose opinions about the candidate that are
defamatory or publish damaging and embarrassing
truths. John Stuart Mill writes that the liberty of free ex-
pression should be suppressed when they fall under
these categories.

Brown is a freshman from Charlotte, NC. and is opin-
ions editor of The Davidsonian

So F oA Fey FPSuON

PResev rs

THE FNAL PARTY. "

ar 604 MV Mam Se
THIS

Feway

No, Z 7wink
_ Zr Was 7uem-

wo Keeceswmens
un Oor // /
