Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian 7

SPORTS

Davidson Garners Conference Win Over Furman

Wildcats Now Ranked Fifth In
Nation In Free Throw Shooting

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson ended its latest week of
Southern Conference basketball with a
solid 84-70 win over Furman. An 11-2
surge by the Wildcats late in the first half
gave a commanding 36-21 halftime lead
that was never threatened in the second
half.

The Furman game ended what had
been a frustrating week on an optimistic
note. Davidson started the week with a
tough 62-52 loss to those fine gentlemen
from UT-Chattanooga. Then Appalac-
hian State handed Davidson its third
straight loss by beating Davidson 73—70.
The Cats are now 9-14 overall and 5—5 in
the conference.

The UTC game was, in a word,
tense. The Mocs lead the conference
(they are 9-1 currently) and both teams
were obviously ready to play. At first it
was all Davidson. The Cats took an 18-8
lead on a slam dunk by freshmen Jeff
Himes with 8:25 left in the half. How-
ever, “Gentleman Gerald” Wilkins of
UTC had already created some tension
by pushing Davidson freshman Derek
Rucker and speaking some words that
sophomore Chris Heineman said
“weren't fit to print.”

Whatever the effects of the tension
and flying elbows were, UTC crept back
into the game and trailed Davidson only
24-21 at halftime.

Heineman summed up the second
half. “They got red hot and we went cold.
Turnovers and poor shot selection really
hurt us. But they didn’t miss anything
and that killed us.”

UTC shot an astronomical 75 percent
from the field in the second half and took
the lead for good with 10 1/2 minutes re-
maining. The Mocs were led by Wil-
kins’s 14 points while Davidson was
paced by Rucker’s 14 and junior Pepper
Bego’s 12.

“I knew it would be a very physical
game,” said junior Gerry Born, who had
8 points and led the team with 8 re-
bounds. “I didn’t think the physical na-
ture of the game hurt us because I thought
it woke us up.”

“The referees really let the game get
out of hand,” sophomore Ace Tanner

said. “Late in the game they tried to make
up for it by calling little fouls. I think that
hurt us because we couldn’t make any
steals without having a foul called and
were thus unable to make any kind of
comeback.”

Davidson once again got an early
lead against Appalachian State. How-
ever, the Mountaineers erased an eight-
point deficit with a 17-2 tear midway
through the first half. But Davidson
came back thanks to some heroics by
Tanner. ASU hit a shot at the buzzer and
led by six at the half.

“We didn’t execute during
the stretch they outscored us 17-2,”
junior Ken Niebuhr said. “They were
playing well, but we didn’t help ourse-
Ives the way we were playing offense.”

“We took bad shots and stood

-around,” Bego said. “They took it to us

and we weren’t taking it right back to
them.”

Davidson wasted no time getting
back in the game in the second half.
Rucker hit a jumper from the top of the
key to knot the score at 45 all with 16 mi-
nutes remaining. For the rest of the half
the game was tight. State grabbed a 65—
60 lead with four minutes left and ap-
peared ready to take control of the game.
However, the Cats refused to give up and
until Ron Fiorini hit two big free throws
with 37 seconds remaining; the outcome
was very much in doubt.

“We beat ourselves,” said Himes,
Davidson's leading scorer with 17. “Our
failure to execute really hurt us.”

So did Appalachian State’s balanced
attack that had four players in double fig-
ures led by Glenn Clyburn’s 19.

Unlike the UTC and ASU games,
Davidson had trouble getting started
against Furman. Davidson took the lead
for good only three minutes into the
game. But the Cats couldn’t break away
from the Paladins until an | 1-2 surge that

finished the first half and gave Davidson
a 36-21 halftime lead.
Davidson maintained a commanding

“lead throughout the second half. Furman

could never mount a serious comeback
due to Davidson’s fine free throw shoot-

ing and superior talent. Davidson is cur-

Marc Wennberg helps Davidson grab a victory over Pfeiffer.

Peggy Pierotti

UT-C. ; oo
rently fifth in the nation in free throw
shooting at 78.1 percent after the Furman
game. Davidson was led by Himes’s 19
points and 6 rebounds. Double figure ef-
forts were also posted by Bego (12),
Rucker (11), and Niebuhr (10).
Davidson has a tough four game road
trip that will have a profound effect on
Davidson's placing in the conference. A
strong finish is important so that David-

Ken Niebuhr battles for a shot in Saturday's basketball game against

son gets a strong seeding in the Southern
Conference Tournament. The next game
is at the friendly confines of UTC, a
place where Davidson is sure to be
warmly welcomed. After thut, Davidson
travels to East Tennessee, Marshall, and
The Citadel. If Davidson can win at least
two of these games, it will return with a
great shot at a winning record in the con-
ference.

Wrestling Team Wins In
Dual Match At Pfeiffer

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson wrestling team won
five out of its last seven matches to notch
a victory in a dual match with Pfeiffer on
Tuesday.

The Wildcats got off to a slow stan,
going down 13-0 after losing the first
three matches. Freshman Steve Lau, 118
Ibs., lost by a technical pin. Sophomore
Mark Wennberg, 126 Ibs., and junior
Taylor Simpson, 134 Ibs., dropped deci-
sions.

Sophomore J.T. Lay, 142 Ibs.,
turned the tide in the Cats’ favor with a
first-period pin in his most aggressive

pertormance of the year

Senior Brad Essman, 150 Ibs. ,
by forfeit and senior Mike Keeley, 15%
Ibs., scored a 16-4 decision to put
Davidson up 16-13.

Freshman Keith Finch, 167 Ibs., lost
by pin, but freshman Tim Heinze, at 177
Ibs., made up the lost points with a sec
ond-period pin.

Freshman Doug Saintsing, 190 Ibs. ,
dropped an 8—4 decision to tie the match
at 22-22, setting up a _ decisive
heavyweight showdown. Junior Andy
Macary controlled his man throughout
the match and pinned him with 46 sec-
onds left to give the Cats a 28-22 victory

won
