Friday, October 25, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson -

3

Ihe United Nations celebrates 40 years

Headlining the news for the week of Oc-
tober 17-23:
Internationally—

In South Africa, after resisting inter-
national pleas to grant clemency, the
government executed black activist Ben-
Jamin Moloise for the murder of a black
police officer. Following the execution,
rage and violence among angry blacks

Swept the predominantly white city of’

Johannesburg; this marked the first time
whites have been attacked there. In Cape
Town, 10,000 black South African Mos-
lems gathered for the funeral of a slain
member; some carried signs calling for a
holy war against apartheid. Violence
continued to plague the black township of

news
summary

JANE AURELL

Soweto as the result of inter-tribal rival-
ries. Meanwhile, to protest apartheid, the
49 members of the British Common-
wealth issued sanctions against South Af-
rica. President Botha is threatening to
withhold exports of chromium and other
metals to the U.S., saying that such with-
holdings could cause the loss of one mil-
lion jobs in the American Auto industry.
In a political rally Monday night, Presi-
dent Botha, while admitting that changes

— a weekly

will have to be made, rejected the possi-
bility of equal voting rights for blacks.
In Italy, Prime Minister Craxi res-
igned over the handling of the Oct. 7
hijacking of the Achille Lauro and the re-
lease of PLO member Abdul Abbas;
however, at the request of the Italian
President Francesco Cossiga, Craxi will
head a new coalition government which
will be the nation’s 45th new government
since the Second World War. President
Reagan sent Craxi a personal letter to re-
pair the strained U.S.-Italian relation-
ship; the letter was warmly received.
President Reagan also sent deputy secret-
ary of State Whitehead to EGypt, then on
to Tunisia, in further efforts to ease ten-
sions caused by the Achille Lauro inci-
dent. In Egypt, President Mubarak or-
dered a halt to all anti-American protests
and is resisting pressures to sever rela-
tions with the U.S. and Israel. Wednes-
day, the Italian press reported that one of
the captured hijackers confessed that
Abbas was the mastermind of the Achille
Lauro hijacking. Funeral services were
held in New York for Leon Klinghoffer,
the American murdered in the hijacking.
In his address to the United Nations
earlier this week, Israeli Prime Minister
Shimon Peres called for direct talks with
Jordan to put an end to the 37-year-old
war between the two countries. Peres
said that he would consider an interna-
tional conference — excluding the PLO
but including the U.S.S.R. and China —
if the Soviet Union made the first move to
reopen diplomatic channels and if China

formally recognized Israel. Jordan is re-
portedly considering the proposal, but is
said to be more interested in the Syrian-
Jordanian accord announced Monday;
the accord eases strained relations be-
tween the two countries and commits
them to the international peace confer-
ence framework made in the 1982 confer-
ence in Fez, Morocco.

Elsewhere in the world — in the Philip-
pines, President Marcos reportedly de-
nied the severity of a communist in-
surgency threat to his government ex-
pressed in a message carried by Senator
Laxalt from President Reagan last week.
In Lebanon, a caller claiming to represent
the kidnappers of the Soviet Embassy Of-
ficials said that the second of the four
Soviets had been executed; no confirma-
tion of the claim has yet been made. Ina
statement made in the Soviet newspaper
Pravda, the Soviet Union said that it will
begin to put nuclear missiles in space if
the U.S. does not put a stop to the de-
velopment of the Strategic Defense In-
itiative (“star wars”). In the U.S. , Secret-
ary of State Shultz said that the S.D.I.
will adhere to the guidelines expressed in
the 1972 A.B.M. treaty; the U.S. is con-
sidering a proposal that would allow for
negotiations with the Soviets, as well as
allowing for a five to seven year notice
before making any deployment of an
S.D.I. system. Defense Secretary Wein-
burger accused the U.S.S.R. of violating
the S.A.L.T. Il treaty by deploying new
intercontinental ballistic missiles. The
seven Warsaw Pact nations gathered in

College to sell Wildcat Den

Bulgaria on Monday to endorse Soviet
leader Gorbachev’s arms proposal. The
U.S. is investigating whether or not the
People’s Republic of China has been vio-
lating a non-proliferation agreement by
exporting material that could be used to
make bombs to Brazil, Argentina, Pakis-
tan, Iran and South Africa. Finally, this
week marks the 40th anniversary of the
founding of the United Nations; over 80
world leaders are expected to attend the
festivities in New York.

Domestically — The pentagon an-
nounced that all active-duty personnel in
the armed forces — over two million
people — will be tested for exposure to
the AIDS virus; those found to have it
will be prevented from combat in over-
seas deployment. A minor earthquake,
measuring 3.8 on the Richter scale,
shook the east coast on Saturday; vibra-
tions were felt from Philadelphia to
Canada. The Chrysler Corp. and the
United Auto Workers reached a tentative
agreement to end the week-long strike of
70,000 Chrysler employees; 10,000
stniking Chrysler employees in Canada
resolved their labor dispute earlier in the
week. Finally, doctors report that despite
a few complications, Anthony Mardia,
the first recipient of the new Penn State
artificial heart, is doing well but is des-
perately awaiting a donor heart for trans-
plant.

Thought for the week — “What you
habitually express, you ultimately be-
come.” — Dr. Walter Kalaf

By KEITH FINCH
The Trustee Finance Commit-

tee has decided to sell the Wildcat ,

Den, a house located in Little
Switzerland, N.C., because of up-
keep costs. The den has served as
a location for group retreats and
gatherings over the past five
years.

College Business Manager
Robert Currie pointed out that the
most significant cost involved in
retaining the Wildcat Den is its
continnal depreciation, particu-
larly in a situation where no one is
living in the house and providing
for its regular maintenance. “One
fear I have with a $300,000 asset
is how long you can keep it with-
out properly maintaining it,” he
said, “You’d need a person living
on the site.”

Currie said out-of-pocket ex-
penses for the den’s upkeep
amounted to about $1800 last
year. This amount included costs
for electricity, caretaking, miscel-
laneous repairs, and such tasks as
pruning and lawn upkeep. He said
last year “was not a typical year,
but it can give you some idea of
our costs.”

When asked how much it
would cost the college to maintain
the Den if the decision to sell was
rescinded, Currie emphasized the
fact that the depreciation of the
house was the most important as-
pect of the expense of its reten-
tion. He estimated that the proper
upkeep of the Wildcat den would
cost the College between $3000
and $4000 per year, providing that
the den was not kept open during
the winter. He pointed out that

keeping the Den open in the
winter would cost the College be-
tween $800 and $900 during each
of the winter months for heating.
Currie further commented, “I sort
of doubt that fees could cover such
high out-of-pocket costs.”

Only after much discussion
and thought did the college decide
to sell the house, Curtie said. He
said that the idea of sale was
brought before the Trustee Fi-
nance Committee last December
and was brought to their attention
again last February, at which time
the Committee authorized the sale
of the Den for between $290,000
and $300,000. The house has
been on the market since the mid-
dle of the summer.

Currie said the sale may be
difficult, “It could very well be a
difficult thing to sell,” he said,
“chances are that we're not going
to be able to sell it any time soon.”

The Wildcat Den is located in
the Blue Ridge in Little Switzer-
land, North Carolina. It has 8500
square feet of interior space and is
situated on a one-and-a-half acre
plot of land. In the past it has been
open for use by groups from
Davidson College and other in-
stitutions during about eight
weeks in autumn and 10 to 12
weeks in the spring, Currie said.
He said that the current practice
involves winterizing the house
around the first of November and
opening it again in March.

Debbie Young, Student Hous-
ing Assistant in charge of group
reservations for the use of the
Den, said the house is used for
many different activities. Some of

the groups that used the house re-
cently include Davidson frater-
nities, J.C. Smith University, the
University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, the North Carolina
Fellows program, the Davidson
Admissions Department, the
Davidson Art Department, the Y
Student Service Corps, WDAV,
and a philosophy class.

Young said the task of manag-
ing the groups who want to use the
Den is minimal and causes no
problems in the Housing Office.

The method used to arrange
for repairs to the Den depends
upon students returning from
weekends there to communicate
what needs to be done, Young
said. She also pointed out that the
house has had some significant
physical problems recently. “It
has potential,” she said, “but it’s
going to have to have some reno-
vation.” She added, “It’s not fal-
ling apart, but I know there have
been some problems with the
plumbing, water pressure, and so
on.”

The Housing Office has not al-
lowed any more groups to reserve
weekends for the use of the Den
since this June, Young said, be-
cause of an April 18, 1985 letter
from President John Kuykendall
stating his decision that students
should not use the house while it
was on the market. However,
Kuykendall allowed the Housing
Office to honor the reservations of
groups that had already asked to
use the house, Young said.

The planned sale of the house
has generated a degree of concern
among Davidson students. “I’ve

heard a lot of students express to
this office, and up in Chambers,
that they were disappointed with
the sale of the house,” Young
said. She added that the members
of a recent trip to the Den were
surprised by the College’s deci-
sion; “Dr. Maydole told his group
that they were thinking about sell-
ing it, and they were really

Dean Rusk

(continued from page !)

during the 1960's he encountered
only one incident involving his
personal security. Today, how-
ever, ‘We are in the danger of re-
turning to a new age of barbarism.
The very institution of communi-
cation between governments is
breaking down.”

In a given hostage situation,
he said that “It’s easy to bomb
somebody, but then you pick up
corpses. But we owe our govern-
ment allegiance, and in return
they owe us appropriate protec-
tion. It’s important to give the first
Priority to hostages.”

Rusk warned the present gen-
eration of Davidson Students that
“during these decades, the entire
humar. race will face the problems
which have never been faced be-
fore: the nuclear problem, the
energy problem, the possibility
that man can inflict irreparable
damage on his environment, the
population explosion, and mas-
sive hunger.”

He added: “We must do some-
thing about those differences
among people of languages,

shocked,” she said.

A petition is currently being
circulated among students who
wish to see the college reconsider
its decision. Linda Tatsapaugh, in
a letter to last week's Davidso-
nian, wrote that the petition is
“not for protest, but merely an af-
firmation of student support.”

nationalities, and cultures. These
differences create turmoil every-
where. We must do better than
that. Each of us can make a start
from where we are right now.
Write letters to the President or
Secretary of State. Find an organi-
zation to work with, or prepare
yourself for specific service in
government. The most important
thing has to do with the selection
of people that have dominion in
public life. Work in campaigns for
the selection of people in public
service.”

Finally, concerning the strate-
gic defense jnitiative, Rusk said:
“It will be ten years before we
know whether it is scientifically
possible. It would cost hundreds
of billions of dollars. And the
Soviet Union can probably do
whatever we can do. The idea we
can gain a temporary advantage
over them is an illusion.”

He added: “I hope we will not
move the arms race into outer
space. | want my future grandchil-
dren to look into space and say the
heavens declare the beauty of
God, and not the folly of man.”
