Opinions

The Davidsonian

Friday, November 8, 1985

- ——

Students should reevaluate alcohol attitudes

Tom Jennings

To drink, or not to drink? This question faces students
daily at Davidson and other colleges and universities across
the country. The overwhelming majority of students
choose to drink — at least to drink occasionally. The
Davidson campus community is part of a society which in-
cludes alcohol as an integral part of social events, celebra-
tions, romantic occasions and sports events (almost any
event).

Recently, in the Student Housing Office, a survey of
Davidson College students was conducted in order to deter-
mine the drinking behaviors of our learned populace. Stu-
dents who came by the Housing Office to pick up U.P.S.
packages, fill out work requests, ask questions or just visit
were asked to complete an eleven item questionnaire. Al-
though this method did not yield a technically random sam-
ple, we were non-discriminating of those students who
completed the survey, and our sample population closely
resembles the general population of Davidson students by
class and gender.

The results of the survey are interesting but not surpris-
ing. Men drink more frequently and in greater quantities
than women. Freshmen and sophomores attend more al-
cohol-oriented parties than juniors and seniors. More than
one fourth of the Davidson students have had a “black-out”
experience, where for a period of time, they cannot re-
member things they did while drinking. Eighteen percent
of the men surveyed said that in the past year they had at-
tended work or school while intoxicated, and forty-five
percent of the men said that during the past year they drove
a motor vehicle while intoxicated. Over sixty-five percent
of those people surveyed said that they knew at least one
friend or acquaintance at Davidson who had a drinking
problem. Twenty-seven percent of those students ques-
tioned said that they drink five or more beers/drinks when
they drink alcohol. Over fifty percent of our respondents
said they drink alcohol at least once a week.

O.K. — so we all know college students drink; what’s
the big fuss? What do all the statistics mean? My primary
purpose for compiling these figures was to determine how
much alcohol is being used and how much it is being
abused. Davidson students responded with a wide variety
of drinking patterns. We have students who do not drink
(twelve percent), students who drink moderately (two cans
of beer per day or less — thirty percent), and students who
drink abusively (more than five cans of beer in One evening
— twenty-seven percent). The remaining thirty-one per-
cent are somewhere between the moderates and the abus-
ers, and they could fall into either category depending on
who is making the categories. Most college students would
probably say that three-four drinks a night, a couple of
times a week, is moderate. Alcohol educators or counselors
may contend that this borders on abusive drinking.

That men drink greater quantities of alcohol in an eve-
ning than do women is not unusual; men are, in general,
larger physically and may require greater quantities of the
drug to reach the same level of effect. Why is it that men

—Just Words

Tim Brown

Tf Dr. Bliss hears his office phone ring, say at 4:30, if he
hears that certain faint knocking his door, he knows it is no
one other than Tim Brown, seeking his advice, knowledge,
and what have you, in regard to writing. His advice to me
last Tuesday: Tim, you ought write on something nonpolit-
ical and more personal. OK! Here it is.

“I’m sorry, Mr. and Mrs. Waldrep. Your son is
paralyzed from a broken neck, and he may not survive”:
these the doctor’s words that October 26, 1974. Well,

drink more frequently than women? Do men have to drink
to feel like they fit in, to cope with academic and social
pressures, to compete with other men, to impress others, to
give themselves excuses to do things that they would not
usually do while sober, to relax . . . ? Sixty-six percent of
the male respondents drink at least once a week while only
twenty-six percent of the women reported drinking that
often. Eleven percent of the men said that they drink every
day, while none of the women drink that frequently.

Another concern for Davidson students is the issue of
drinking and driving. Forty-five percent of the men and
twelve percent of the women said they had driven while in-
toxicated this year. This suggests that over 375 Davidson
men were guilty of this offense this year.

And about the men who have gone to work or school in-
toxicated at least once this year — those eighteen percent
— almost one in five students — do you think you have a
drinking problem? Only one woman said that she had
showed up for schoo! or work while intoxicated.

Blackout? One in four students had blackouts this year.
These periods of memory lapse are a sign of a serious drink-
ing problem. Women reported fifteen percent fewer cases

G

Over sixty-five percent of those
people surveyed said that they know
of at least one friend or acquaintance
at Davidson who has a drinking
problem

y,

of blackouts than men. Once again the women show lower
levels of abuse.

Our survey suggests that twenty percent of Davidson’s
students know five or more of their peers at Davidson who
they think have drinking problems. It is doubtful that they
are all thinking of the same five people. Thirty-four percent
of our students know at least three Davidson peers who
have drinking problems.

The survey assessed behaviors. It did not attempt to
find reasons for these behaviors. You are free to make your
own conclusions about the causes and effects of drinking
on this campus; however, I will offer some thoughts on
these statistics.

I am not advocating prohibition; in fact, I do not even
support raising the drinking age. I do support responsible
drinking and educating students about responsible drink-
ing.

A significant minority of students on this campus are
drinking without thinking. By not thinking about why they
choose the drug alcohol and by not thinking about the short
term and long term psychological and physical effects on
themselves, students begin lifestyle habits without making
conscious decisions about what alcohol use means to them.
If you drink without thinking, then you are letting the
media, social pressures, physical factors and emotional
factors contro! you, instead of exerting control over your-

paralyzed: and blames a collision with Astroturf for his in-
jury. Meanwhile the players’ association claims injuries
rose 20 percent in 1984 and because of the “fuzzy concrete”
injuries were more severe. Less serious injuries frequent
other athletes — ‘turf toe,” burns, and bruises caused by
the abrasive surface. Thereby the athletes express their
feelings. And what are mine?

Well . . . I sort of miss the old grass — and the things I
associated with it. The mud and dirt, slop and goo. Shoes
kicking up sod. Players crusty, caked, and triumphant. For
me, Astroturf reduces the glory of, the romance for, the
athletic image. And . . . Don’t you feel the same way? Do
you miss the baseballs not bouncing off the field at the
speed of light? Do you miss the five yards gained in a cloud
of dust? And the Houston Oiler chewing his chaw? The Oil-
ers were told here recently there would be no more chew-

Kent, a former college football player, did-tive, is now ing. Because it was too difficult for the maintenance crew

“wh

self — that is a tragedy.

Responsible drinking means understanding that
whenever you drink alcohol, you set an example for others.
It means knowing your limit for alcohol and stopping be-
fore you reach it. It means understanding the difference be-
tween alcoholism (a disease, treatable by medical means)
and alcohol abuse (a social problem, best addressed
through education and example). It means understanding
that alcohol is not a solution to life's problems, nor will it
help you be more successful, smarter, or sexier. Responsi-
ble drinking means being honest with yourself about your
drinking behaviors, the reasons why you drink, the payoffs
you get from drinking; and the positive and negative effects
that alcohol has on other areas of your life. It means con-
sciously deciding whether to drink or not to drink each time
you are presented with that option.

Alcohol abuse is a problem here. The amount and fre-
quency of consumption represented in your surveys backs
this assertion. Alcohol-related vandalism on Patterson
Court and in the residence halls costs you many thousands
of dollars every year. Alcohol-related trash problems and
minor damages take many hours of staff time to correct; if
these problems occur on weekends, parents and visitors
leave with a bad impression of Davidson and its students.
This reflects directly on everyone associated with the col-
lege, including you and me.

Those who tolerate or ignore the problem are almost as
guilty as those who create it. Alcohol abuse(and the toler-
ance of abusers) and all of its after-effects breeds medioc-
rity in your college experience. It is a minority of our stu-
dents who abuse alcohol, but it is a majority of our commu-
nity who support or tolerate the abuse.

I suggest that we re-evaluate our current attitudes and
behaviors with regard to alcohol consumption at Davidson.
With the new legislation raising the legal drinking age to 21

years (effective September 1, 1986), perhaps there is no
time better than this year. A task force on Alcohol Educa-
tion made up of students, faculty and Student Affairs staff
has been brought together to discuss these issues. This
group could also provide educational programming oppor-
tunities for students to address the issues of responsible
drinking, the effects of alcohol and the social environment
here, in order to provide a base of information upon which
students can build healthy attitudes and responsible be-
havior concerning alcohol.

Alcohol abuse is a social problem with many contribut-
ing causes. Alcohol education is the best approach to take
for long-term attitudinal changes, and now is an excellent
time to begin educating ourselves about alcohol. So before
you load your “Silver Bullets” and “Head for the Moun-
tains,” to decide whether it “Tastes Great” or it’s “Less fil-
ling,” take a moment to decide whether we should tolerate
the alcohol abusers a little longer, continuing to pay for the
damages, clean-up and car accidents, or whether we should
make our lifestyle out of the classroom more congruent
with our academic excellence.

The choice is yours. I solicit thoughtful responses about
the survey results, my assertions, alcohol use on campus
and the social climate at Davidson.

Jennings is the Director of Student Housing.

Astroturf diminishes pleasure in athletics

to search the whole field for tobacco spittle, to scrub it.
upon finding it, with a brush and soap.

When I played, or attempted to play, ball — I focused !
on natura. Damn — if I could catch. Instead, this Southern |
boy strove to differentiate milkweed from kudzu, dandel-
ion from, say oh, your average weed. Damn —- if } could
throw. But a kiss I would throw, along with a dandelion, to
my sweetheart — or at least she was my darling unti! she
saw me play. Damn — if I could hit. But [never once failed
to go through the rigmarole —- of grabbing a handful of din
spitting on it and putting it on my bat. Otherwise. How else
can a man grip it properly? —- this | would respond to both
my parents, after they'd suggest I concentrate more on the |
ball and less on my emulation of George Foster. Yes leven
had down his elbow’s quirk, and if I were to play today
. it would only be second nature. |

