THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor - Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager Ann Roddey, Production Editor
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Self-study

After approximately two years of labor, Davidson has finally com-
pleted its self-study, a work of not just great thought, but also great
length. From a committee comprised of about 165 students, faculty
members and professors comes to us the ideas and the recommendations
for further improving upon the quality of life afforded to us here at
Davidson.

These recommendations are many, and we urge you to seek out
copies of the Self-Study and browse through its 351 pages at your leisure.
Rest assured you will be amazed and perplexed, if not even surprised by
some of the recommendations made by our peers and professors. Par-
ticularly interesting is the recommendation for the option to change a
pass/fail course to a letter grade course any time prior to the tenth week,
given the student has a C or better in the course. Options of this sort
abound with possible changes for the better noted throughout the work.
Not just changes, but inadequacies are noted as well — for example the
inadequacy of our existing theatrical companies, and symphonies of
great size and ability.

Unfortunately, like any piece of great literature you will find that the
Self-Study also has its faults. Mainly that parts of it are out-dated. One
example in particular deals with a subject currently on most students
minds by stating that the student parking facilities are sufficient. We
have already discussed the inadequacies of that realm of our campus life.

All things considered, let’s hope that the Self-Study does not, like
some campus endeavors, get filed away like a novel to press prom flow-
ers and gather dust and great memories of two years spent on introspec-
tive research. Too much time has been spent by too many valuable
people for this to happen. Instead it should become the most active work
on campus, for only from this work and conclusions drawn there, will
Davidson find such changes as improved theatre and art. facilities,
changed athletic programs and adjusted curriculum. The self-study is
over, now let’s study it ourselves.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davideon, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed In letters tothe editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the orlal board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12

por year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, Richard Cloudt, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams
Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Bill Bugg, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lye, David Petranick John Reuter

Staff Artists: Richaro Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kim Crabtree, Beth Drummond, Kristin Galloway,
Clisby Hall,.Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim
Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough.

Compositors: Doug Kim. Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dier-
donck

Friday, October 4, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

N
JOHN, THE STUDY
gLOOKS GObD THIS
TIME BUT 1 Hope
IT’S NOT GETTIN’
TO INTROSPECTIVE.

Letters -

Speaker

To the Editor:

I .would like to comment upon the
speaker, Jack Wheeler, an “adventurer-phi-
losopher” brought to Davidson by the
Speakers Committe two weeks ago. As a
member of the speakers committee, I feel
that it is important to have such controver-
sial figures speak at Davidson. It frightens
me, however, that his impressive presenta-
tion could have greatly influenced Davidso-
nians who had not been previously in-
formed on his subject.

Mr. Wheeler’s viewpoint was very one-
sided. He painted a red, white and blue
glaze over “anti-Soviet” revolutions in sev-
eral countries. He also portrayed the Soviet
Union as an evil, immoral country filled
with black Russian war machines. Human
nature may make one fee! comfortable with
this image of our country’s adversary.
Common sense, however, tells us that
every government is composed of good and
bad people making good and bad decisions.
Mr. Wheeler’s implication that to be pro-
American one has to be completely anti-
Soviet is indicative of a philosophy which
lacks sound reasoning.

Mr. Wheeler lumped together the fights
and plights of rebel groups in several radi-
cally different countries. While the causes
of countries which have been invaded by
the Soviet Union can hardly be argued, it is
not fair to categorize these countries actu-
ally in a state of civil war. T}..., Afghanis-
tanian and Cambodian rebels share few
similarities with guerillas in Nicaragua and
Zaire.

The country mentioned of which I have
some knowledge is Nicaragua. In this case,
at least, Mr. Wheeler combined some beau-
tiful photography with a few facts, and a lot
of propoganda and contra rhetoric to give a
highly biased opinion of the situation. He
admitted that he has never been on a non-

military expedition inside the government-
controlled areas of Nicaragua. Thus, his re-
ports of the lives of “average Nicaraguans”
were probably taken from dissatisfied sol-
diers in the mountains of Honduras! Mr.
Wheeler’s assertions were not based on
anything remotely resembling objective
study.

Though he does an excellent job at his
professed favorite activity, (“‘pissing-off
the left’), attitudes such as Jack Wheeler’s
are hardly helpful to students searching for
the truth behind world politics.

Sharon E. Spong

Basketball

To the Editor:

I think it’s about time they did away
with the basketball goals in Johnston Gym.
They're obstrusive — a plain nuisance if
you ask me. They detract from the gym’s
real purpose. How can we be expected to
concentrate on our indoor aerobics or in-
door volleyball or indoor soccer or indoor
street hockey or indoor P.E. classes or in-
door study halls with these eyesores hang-
ing over us like three reviews on a Friday?

In fact, they probably ought to go ahead
as planned and convert Johnston to a thea-
ter-arts building. Nobody around here plays
basketball. Hell, Hussey can take them
boys outside if all they want to do is shoot
ball. They play most of their games in the
Coliseum, anyway.

Okay, I don’t want to be unreasonable.
Fm willing to put the goals up during the
winter. But, hey, NCAA Division I basket-
ball teams don’t need to practice during the
off-season. And I challenge anybody to find
somebody else around campus who's inter-
ested in pick-up games. Face it, the vote’s
in: Davidson students don’t really care
about basketball. They’d rather fight for
court space in the new tennis arena. Maybe
they could redesign Johnston for indoor ten-
nis. I’m wondering if we have enough
courts yet to handle the demand.

William Naso
