THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor

John Gathings, Editor ;
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor

Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor Pd
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Ann Roddey, Production Editor
David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager

Wish list

~

There comes a time every year when nothing of real importance hap-
pens. This is that time for 1985. Times like these provide a real challenge
to newspaper editors: hence, this editorial.

Being timely as always, we decided to compile the first ever David-
sonian Christmas Wish List, in order of importance to us.

Dear Santa,

1) We need more parking spaces and less tickets.

2) The Computer Services Center needs to be open 24 hours.

3) The clocks on Chambers need to be sychronized.

4) We need at least three weeks for Christmas.

5) The dorms should be made livable, and a few resident ant-eaters
would not hurt.

6) The Campus Police need real cars. LTD’s, Mustangs. Anything
but tippable Cushman’s.

7) It would be great to see Kuykendall on Letterman (with a late-nite
sky-cam close-up).

8) Please fix the lights around the court.

9) Move up the completion date for the new sports complex to next
year.

10) Continue the recent progress made toward a realistic attitude con-
cerning the “self-selection” process.

11) Provide 100 percent housing.

12) More students need to have important jobs in WDAV.

13) Add a fifth day of exams.

14) Have a computer system that doesn’t break down whenever light-
ning strikes.

15) Improve the election system (i.e. , have people at the tables at the
appropriate times).

16) We need a fish pond in front of Chambers.

Thanks, The Davidsonian

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the’ Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson,
David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug
Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen
Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, David
Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan,
Laure Van Dierdonck

A CHRISTMAS

THIS YEAR !

Pi ‘ CG
ik i
|

| ith

I ‘ft
Wh,
it
in

ve

wal

His ClUtr 61955

Zp a
MEY. FES
Mon:

Thursday, December 19, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BREAK?

NAH , YOU DAVIDSON STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN NAUGHTY

a
a ;

ij \ (
L =

i ‘i

12-14

Letters

To the Editor:

In the Dec. 12 issue of The Davidsonian
you have a public service advertisement for
“Depository Libraries.” Thanks for adver-
tising the E.H. Little Library!

Since 1983 our library has been a de-
pository for publications of the U.S. Gov-
emment. The collection has over 80,000
hardback items and over 100,000 items on
microfiche. Periodicals, serials, census re-
ports, Congressional Record, Supreme
Court Reports, etc. And if we do not have
it, we can borrow it for you quickly from the
regional depository. Mrs. Cindy Pender-
graft is in charge of the documents collec-
tion. She or any of the librarians will be glad
to assist the Davidson Family in the use of
this rich resource in the Davidson College
Library.

Leland Park

To the Editor:

We want to thank everyone who partici-
pated in this year’s Phonathon. Approxi-
mately 350 students made 3688 calls over
Our combined efforts

seven evenings.

The Davidsonian welcomes letter
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.
3)We require that letters be signed

Letters Policy

raised $117,887 for Davidson's Living En-
dowment. Congratulations to everybody
for this tremendous success, SAE deserves
special recognition since its members had
the highest total of all the groups. In one
evening they raised over $26,000. The
Phonathon Committee would especially
like to thank the following night chairmen
and committee members for their efforts:

Dave White Seth Gartner
Allison Wills Steve Hughes
Tony Griffin Don Collins
Peter Wright Cameron Chalmers
Joe Langley Ted Davis
Rachel Henning Scott Saye
J.P. McBryde Ralph Steding
Buddy Martin Richard Busby
Jane Royal Polly Blomquist
Sincerely,
Dave Handy
Christi Hayes
Mark Sandy

and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors. ~

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertise ments:
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.
