Refugees to discuss Salvadoran bombing

Fifteen Salvadoran refugees will be in Charlotte today to testify to the devas-
tating effects of their government's bombing campaign in the rural areas of El
Salvador.

The Salvadoran bombing campaign, which relies upon daily U.S. reconnai-
sance flights, has dropped more bombs in the past two years than in any previous
conflict in the Western Hemisphere. The government of El Salvador uses U.S.
supplied bombers, helicopters and bombs as part of its fight against the five year
old insurgency. The bombing campaign inc the number or peasants who
are forced to leave the rural areas of E! Salvador mele refugees.

The Salvadorans will be met by the Carolinaaterfaith Task Force on Central
America (CITCA) at 11 a.m. on Friday. They will be avalible for interviews
throughout the afternoon before speaking at Assumption Catholic Church, 2110
Shenandoah Drive, at 7:30 p.m.

For more information contact Kathy Sparrow of CITCA at 399-2480

Opportunity opens for graduate fellowships

The fourteenth annual competition for graduate-level ITT International Fel-
lowships for studies abroad is now open, and applications are avalible through
campus foreign-studies advisors.

To be considered for the 1986-87 ITT grants, graduating seniors must com-
plete the applications and have them submitted through the campus Fulbright
program adviser so that they reach New York by October 31, 1985. Applications
are screened and winners are selected by the New York-based Institute of Inter-
national Education (ITE). The winner will be announced in January.

Since ITT Corporation began funding the program in 1973, some 678 stu-
dents have studied under the program, making it the largest corporate-funded,
graduate level international student exchange program in existence. In that time,
336 U.S. students have pursued graduate studies abroad, and 342 foreign stu-
dents have studied in the U.S.

The application procedure is the same as that for Fulbright Fellowships,
which also are administered by the IIE. Completion of one application qualifies
candidates for all available grants administered by the ITE to a particular coun-
try.

ITT Fellowships are among the most generous of any foreign studies grants
and are avaliable for any field of study. In addition to a week-long symposium
held for all ITT Fellows each spring and the publication of a year-book and
newsletters, the program offers many other opportunities for present and past
Fellows to meet and exchange information. The ITT Fellowship provides
maintenance, tuition, books, incidentials, local travel abroad, insurance and
transportation.

New Styles/Golden Tans

‘*The Tonsure”’
20808 N. Main
Cornelius, N.C.
892-1933

Accent your new fall style with a golden tan.

Come by and see the latest new fall styles.
Call 892-1933 for appointments and rates.

News: Summary

Students who need additional information should write to: ITT Program Ad-
ministrator, Institution of International Education, 809 United Nations Plaza,
New York, NY 10017.

Former political prisoner to speak Sunday

Veronica DeNegri, former political prisoner from Chile, will talk about her
five and a half month imprisonment and subjection to torture this Sunday at 8
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

No formal charges were ever made by the government for her imprisonment.
She was raped, given electric shocks, forced fed, forced starved until she had in-
testinal problems, not allowed to bathe until she had infections, given
blindfolded interrogations and cigarette burns.

DeNegri spoke at the Southeastern Amnesty meeting in New Orleans this
past spring. She said she believes her imprisonment was because she had been a
member of the women’s commission of a local workers’ union. “In Chile, you
do not have to do anything to be arrested; you just have to have different beliefs,”
she said, and added that her only thoughts during imprisonment were “what |
had to do to survive” (The Times-Picayune/The States-Item, 3/11/85, A-22).

She now lives in America after being told to leave the country upon release
(still with no explanation for why). DeNegri speaks of her past in hopes of stir-
ring concer and action among Americans against torture and imprisonment
without any legal justification. A one dollar contribution is requested to help pay
her expenses.

Material contributed by J. Allen Smith

The results of this weeks elections are:

Freshman Class Belk Dorm
Bill Sutton (president) Jim Taylor
Charles Bratton Reese Boyd
Lee Nagendran Jay Hurt
Little Dorm Oe ampus M Richardson Dorm
Tom Stephens itney Montgomery Braden Bledsoe
Allen Mast
Watts Dorm Temo Tarrago Knox Dorm
Grant Morain 8 Conrad Doenges
Cannon Dorm Akers Dorm
Libby Sanders Mandy Barret
Duke Dorm Irwin Dorm
Melissa Ferguson Brooks Wilkerson

REWARD

$500

Friday, October 4, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shop Hours Tanning Hours
9-6 p.m. MTATAF 9-8 p.m M-F *
9-7 p.m. Wed. 9-until  Saturda A Five Hundred Doll bee i
Q-until Saturday y ar Reward has been posted with the Iredell

County Sheriff's Office for information leading to the arrest of those
parties responsible for the theft and damage to the pro

i ie th perty of the
Davidson Downes sub-division located one mile north of Davidson
College on Presbyterian Road. The theft consists of Old English

aluminum letters painted black 10 & 12 inches in height 1-
ling out “Davidson Downes”. Sight and spe 9

Gary Bailey — owner/stylist
Cindy Henderson — stylist
Gibson Murray — stylist

Quality and Fashion Apparel
For Men and Women
“See our latest for campus wear”
Downtown Mooresville

Please call the Local Police Department or R. C Mozeley, 399-
0695, Charlotte, NC, if you know where any of these letters can be
located, or if you have other information which will aid in the recov-
ery of said letters.
