10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Barron, Sports Editor Scott McKinney, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Parking Woes

The Davidson Police Force’s new image may be reassuring for some.
The new uniforms and the biweekly security tips column are outward
signs of a more conscientous committment to public safety. Other stu-
dents in the last few weeks may be frustrated, however, by the stricter en-
forcement of the parking regulations. Students in search of parking
spaces are discovering that convenience means living in Watts and park-
ing in the woods in front of Warner Hall. This leads students to easy
rationalizations for illegal parking.

Illegal parking poses problems, however. Cars parked around Patter-
son Court prevent fire trucks from getting close in case of an emergency.
Because they crowd the road they also increase the potential for acci-
dents. According to Davidson Police there were some near-misses last
year.

Davidson police officer Ray Thrower recently noted that the number
of violations has decreased. Though this is true, it seems that it puts in-
“creasing pressure on students to find a parking space. But what causes
the problem? Are more permits being issued than there are spaces? At
some larger colleges the problem can be expensive as well as frustrating.
UNCC charges over $50 for a parking permit with no guaranteed space.

Davidson Police Chief Jackie Hughes is currently at work on a study
to determine the ratio of available spaces to the number of permits is-
sued. So far, the parking lot behind the rapelling tower has remained full.
It seems that another area could also be allocated for parking. No formal
proposals have been advanced, but student effort, combined with the re-
sults of Hughes’ study, could spark action on the part of the College.

-—— Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian “Opin-
ions” section is the only forum
on campus for extended com-
mentary on pertinent issues. We
will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest
we receive from the campus

signed articles only if compel-
ling reason exists for withhold-
ing the author’s name, and the
author is known to either the
editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions
for style or content but we re-

community. serve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will in- -
We adhere to these form the anthor of substantial:
guidelines: changes.

1) We require that all arti-
cles be in our hands at 7 p.m.
Monday.

2) We accept typed articles
and those written legibly, dou-
ble-spaced.

3) We require that opinions
be signed. We will print un-

5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve
the right to select artilces from
those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print
any article we withhold from
publication for space reasons
the next week.

i
a a
ii

| pie Vi

>=

all
a yu il

Ay \ \"\"\

I": tit

I hin

Friday, September 27, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mi! MH)

Int
Hil Im

illye
DONNA °
“MAD ri
THE Boss
LT VE $" ool

We

=<
\\
\\ \\
\W RA Sy

tters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Richard Cloudt, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Jeff
Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris, Samuel
Scott

Sports Staff: Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell, Edwin Page

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Beth Drummond, Kristin. Galloway, Clisby Hall,
Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Pauline Rhodes, Kim Robertson,
David Soud, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough. Compositor: Ann Roddey

To the Editors:

I entered a six-week work-study inter-
nship in Nicaragua with an open mind. |
was there from June 18 to July 28 as one of
nineteen students who visited under au-
spices of the Presbyterian Peacemaking
Center. Though I did not find Nicaragua’s
Sandinista government entirely wholesome
and just, neither did I see any evidence of its
being a serious ideological or physical
threat to the United States.

Though both Communists and Christian
clergymen hold posts in the Sandinista gov-
ernment, I found the people of Nicaragua
are not living under a Marxist-Leninist re-
gime. Over seventy per cent of the land in
Nicaragua is now privately owned, and
more is being given each year to the peas-
ants who farm it through a government ag-
tarian reform program. People appear able
to live: and travel where they wish, except
where fighting and “Contra” (counter-revo-
lutionary) guerilla raids are active.

I interviewed several people the San-
dinista government had moved to resettle-
ment camps. They told me they were un-
happy about having to move, but they did
feel safer now. They explained that Contra
members had kidnapped and killed two
people of their village and had later blown
up their water pump in the resettlement
camp. Talking with Nicaraguan church
leaders, Boy Scouts, government officials,
soldiers and prisoners, living with a Nicara-
guan family, and working of construction
of houses for poor people through Habitat
for Humanity’s project in the Chinandega
Province of Nicaragua, I found: that most

The Davidsonian welcomes letter

: from its readers. We try to print all letters

of general interest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3)We require that letters be signed

Letters Policy

Nicaraguans
Many support the government.
openly criticize it.

My observations did not provide credi-
bility for the claim that “Contra” groups are
fighting communism. In some instances,
they appear dedicated to hurting people and
confiscating their possessions.

Nicaraguan government officials and
citizens appeared fiercely opposed to being
controlled by the U.S., the U.S.S.R., or
any outside government, though they ap-
pear to need and be willing to accept aid
from any source that will grant aid to their
war-torn and economically depressed coun-
try. I looked for evidence of military mate-
rials being exported. My limited observa-
tions did not reveal even a possibility of
substantial arms or military aid being ex-
ported from Nicaragua to other Latin Amer-
ican operations at this time. I therefore be-
lieve that some misinformation is involved
in the justification of our government’s giv-
ing aid to the contra groups.

So, I urge my fellow American citizens
to ask thier Congressmen to support the Bo-
land Ammendment which is before the
House: now. The Boland Ammendment,
which runs out September 30, was passed
by Congress.in 1984 to stop the CIA from
secretly giving guns, ammunition, etc., to
the Contra. If the Boland Amendment does
not pass again, our CIA will once again be
free to give weapons of war directly to the
Contra. But as the Nicaraguan people told
me time and again, “Please, tell your
people, we want the peace.”

C. Lanford Smith

are professed Christians.
Others

and include the author's phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertisements.
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.

