Features

The music of La Maurache transcends time

By BILL BUGG

In the apparel of medieval minstrels,
with the mystery of ancient instruments and
intrepid tunes, La Maurache, an early
music ensemble from France, performed a
variety of songs, dances, and instrumental
works from the Middle Ages and the Re-
naissance in Davidson College’s Chamber
Music Series Tuesday night.

Lingle Chapel in Davidson College Pre-
sbyterian Church provided good acoustics
and a small concert hall for the perfor-
mance, but it was left to the audience to
imagine four minstrels seated by a fire in a
medieval chateau, or four composers at the
Court of Burgundy putting poetry to the
music. The four musicians, however, trans-
cended the modern environment, creating
an atmosphere of the intimacy and infor-

mality of a chateau and the mystery and
majesty of a court.

La Maurache’s four minstrels, clad in
purple and white robes and embracing in-
struments ranging from crumhorn to rebec,
from lute to crwth, processed down the aisle
to begin the performance. They played sev-
eral groups of short works ranging from
court songs of the Trouveres of Northern
France to medieval poetry of Guillaume de
Machaut, from royal anthems of Spain to
suites and dances of the French Renais-
sance.

La Maurache’s interpretation of the
often ambiguous scores of ancient pieces
was conservative, but innovative. While
they attempted to remain free from tainting
the works with 20th century cliches, their
results emitted a radiance of lively rhythms

and endless variety. They made up for their
only weakness — some trouble blending
the instruments and voices — by their effec-
tiveness in conveying an ancient art form to
a modern audience.

The name La Maurache alludes to the
mysterious Moors (Les Maures in French)
who brought the lute into Spain. Julien
Skowron, the founder of the ensemble said,
“La Maurache is primarily symbolic. We
wanted a name for our ensemble which
would express song, instrumental art,
dance and poetry; a living name for a living
music which seeks to be something more
than a mere returm to the past, a name which
belongs both in the past and the present to
denote a nearly one thousand-year-old
music in which every 20th-century man
may rediscover . . . his roots.”’ The ensem-

ble successfully impelled its audience to
seek through its music not nostalgia but the
vividness and freshness of ancient sounds
new to the modern ear.

Julien Skowron is an expert in early in
struments (including the crwth, rebec.
medieval fiddle, and viol) and holds a doc
torate from Sorbonne. Francisco Orozco.
from Colombia, specializes in plucked in-
struments (the oud, maurache.
guitar, and lute).

Herve Barreau, who plays wind instru-
ments (the recorder, shawm, crumhorn,
and comamuse), won first prize in the Paris
Interconservatory Competition. Jean-Pas-
cal Bertin plays bowed instruments and the
crumhorn. The ensemble has performed in
France, Yugoslavia, Denmark. Italy and
the United States.

citole,

Ada Jenkins Day commemorates community worker

By VICKI ROGERS

YSSC_ Vice-President junior Lynn
Michie had little success enticing children
to join her for some “small child stew” this
Saturday in the Haunted House at Ada Jen-
kins Day. Her two-inch-long green eye-
lashes or the slimy contents of the “soupe du
jour” may have caused their fear. Those
who came to Ada Jenkins Day this past
Saturday saw that ‘spooky witch” (in the
words of Damon Barringer, age seven).
Ada Jenkins Day, termed a “Fall Town
Day” by Pat Johnson, had a dual purpose,
meant to commemorate the accomplish-
ments of Ada Jenkins. The day’s festivities

also demonstrated the Davidson communi-
ty’s support of the community center and its
many programs. ;

Ada Jenkins taught from the late 1920s
until! 1945 in a two room school-house
situated at the present-day community cen-
ter location. Jenkins thought there was a
need for a larger school. The school board
granted permission for the construction of a
new schoolhouse if Jenkins would raise the
money from within the community. Eve-
ntually, Jenkins had the funds necessary to
build the schoolhouse, which is now the
Community Center. For this achievement

Saturday, October 26, was set aside in re-
membrance of Jenkins.

The Y Student Service Corps (YSSC)
worked with Pat Johnson on the planning of
Ada Jenkins Day and provided student vol-
unteers to organize kids’ games and to help
out as clowns. Jobs ranged from supervis-
ing the “moon bounce” to helping three-
and four-year-olds try to strike the bell on
the “High Riser” with a hammer twice their
size. With the help of Eunice Hiott, one lit-
tle boy made it past “macho” on the scale.
FIJI and Emanon created a two room
“Haunted House” complete with vampire
(Lee Elchelberger), a chained monster

Seieneney

api ack apne bean Se

4

PO TSW ee

Mike Stephens, lan Dunn, Bill Barnette, David Sink ponder the next ques tion in College Bowl match.

Adam’ Rib provides comedy, suspense

By DOUG ROBELEN
and CHRIS SULLIVAN
Doug: Hello, I’m Doug Robelen, film critic
for The Davidsonian.

Otter: Hi, I’m Otter, ditto.

D: Today we're going out to preview
the film ““Adam’s Rib.”

O: It’s a comedy starring Katherine
Hepburn and Spencer Tracy. The pair star
as husband and wife lawyers. He is in the
DA's office and she is a defense attorney

D: The movie starts out with a suspense-

ful pursuit scene. For those of you who

don't recognize Tracy and Hepburn this
movie gets pretty confusing pretty quickly.

O: Mrs. Attinger (Jennifer Holiday) is
following her husband (Tom Ewell) in an
attempt to catch him with (dadadadaaa)
another woman. She discovers the smitten
couple on the couch. Enraged she fires
away with her handy dandy .32.

D: We quickly discover that she needs
some marksmanship lessons. Well, surpris-
ingly enough Adam Bonner (Tracy) 1s as-
signed to prosecute Mrs. Attinger. And
Amanda Bonner (Hepburn) decides to take

the case in the name of women’s equality.
This all makes for an intriguing plot and a
humorous one at that.

O: The loving Bonner couple gradually
degenerate into an... unloving couple.
Under the direction of Mrs. Bonner the trial
becomes a circus with the issue of equal
rights for women in the center ring

D: After some heavy-handed feminism
the film recovers its early humor. Tracy
makes his point to his wife and storms out
If you're waiting to hear the
ing See — the

end

forget ot movie

(Andy Myers), and a mad doctor (Mike
Stephens). MAny kids left the haunted
house screaming.

Pat Johnson, organizer of Ada Jenkins
Day, said, “I just could not have produced
Ada Jenkins day without the YSSC, Ema-
non and FIJI.” in reference to the small stu-
dent representation at Ada Jenkins Day.
Steve Hughes expressed his disappointment
“that more students didn't turn out because
they passed the people on the other side of
the tracks — the real Davidson community,
the part that isn’t just an outgrowth of the
college.”

Sate SR. Seb rece

cheapskate.

O: I thought the movie was quite good
even though it makes a travesty of the
American judicial system. Tracy and Hep
burn put in marvelous performances, and
the supporting cast is nearly as good, espe
cially the dude across the hall (you'll know
who I mean)

1D: Otter, | must agree with you: Over

all, iS a very entertaining movie, det
nitely worth seeing. Tom Ewell is great on
the stand
