Wednesday, April 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

Student Reflects On Life At Davidson

Peggy Pierotti

Recently Davidson has spent a good deal of time and ef-
fort looking inward—students and administrators have
turned toward introspection, self-studies and surveys. In
case these studies failed to notice all of the truly useful and
utterly useless aspects of Davidson life, here is a list of
some of the items we found most (and least) helpful.

Food is good. The Commons is useful. Minnie Junkin
and 892-FOOD are useful. The microwave ovens are won-

derfully useful. The signs warning people with pacemakers _

about the microwaves, however, are useless. The waffle
irons are useful, and their usefulness would increase if
there were more of them; lines to cook waffles are useless.
The inspiration messages are also bogus, but Pete McIntyre
and the express line are great.

The café is useful. Having the café closed until 5 p.m.
on Sundays is useless (and inconsiderate). The penny cup
by the cash register is one of the most useful things on cam-
pus. The orange trays are helpful, too. The “Use This
Door” sign on the café door has got to go. The rope line-for-
mation divider between the ice-cream counter and the cash
register is equally as ridiculous (almost).

The union elevator is nice, but the “Official Use Only”
sign on the door is useless. The 1M button is also useless.
The Chambers elevator is useful; the wheelchair lift on the
outside door is useless (and silly looking).

The brass plates on the bottoms of Chambers’ doors are
useful for kicking the unnecessarily heavy doors open. The
Cannon dorm door that doesn’t open is useless as well as
obnoxious. Bathroom stall doors are useful; things posted
on bathroom stall doors are not. The library doors are

sometimes useless—why can’t you ever go out the in door.
Truly useful doors work both ways!

The library is generally useless—the desk phone, how-
ever, is very useful. The calendars that are still for sale are
useless, as are the news reels and viewers and the very out-
dated maps of other cities. The shelf with phone books is
helpful but the little memo-paper slots near the card
catalogue that are perpetually empty are not.

The book slots inside the Bookstore are useful. The
Bookstore record sales are humorous—Japanese Flute
Music recordings are about as useless as it gets.

Flute music, in fact, is second in uselessness only to the
alarm in the empty Rexall drug store that goes off if you
walk by the place. Having two hair places in Davidson is
useless (and redundant), but Main Street as a whole is
pretty useful.

The Post Office is very useful, but boxes with windows
would be better. Boxes for extra Davidson Updates are use-
ful. (Now guess what’s really useless . . .) A “Free Gift” is
redundant: (how many gifts do you pay for?). Snugglesis
useless.

The laundry is useful. The shirt-hanging racks that you
spin are useful and fun. Clothes that shrink are useless. The
jar of Lance crackers and peanuts seems useless—who
shops for snack food in the laundry?

Sidewalks are useful. The half-finished back path be-
hind the Commons is a joke. (Another useless thing is the
raised brick flower-ivy bed dividers between Chambers
and Cunningham—maybe someone will get the useful idea
to use those bricks to finish the Commons path . . .) The
well-trodden path to the Post Office is useful as is the tram-
pled path between Martin and Chambers. The tar path is
useless. the 1926 gift well is useless, too, and the statue that
appeared in front of the union was not only useless but
pointless as well.

DERS is useful and effective. The “drugs” prescribed
in the infirmary are neither. The SGA is useful. The SGA
elections committee, however, . . . The Honor Council is
useful, but the extra pledge sheets in exam envelopes are
absurd.

Parties are wonderful. The new drinking laws are not.
Food Lion and 7-Eleven are both extremely useful.

Grass is fresh and green and useful for suntanning. The
football stadium bleachers and dorm balconies are also use-
ful for tanning. The football field’s crash pad is the most
useful and soft. The steeplechase pit is useless and danger-
ous-looking. The box office seems pretty useless—who
knows? The lawn mowers which cut the grass in front of
Chambers have been useless so far this spring. (If they re-
main useless, machetes may be useful in cutting through
the jungle.)

Humanities is interesting. Humes discussions are use-
ful, but using the Phi A as a discussion room is idiotic.
Humes 200 students are also a useless breed.

The balcony for sign-hanging on Eu Hall is useful. The
signs generally hung there are useless. The “Davidson Fact
Sheet” is unnecessary, but the “Davidson Directory” is a
big help—as is the Union Desk. The ticket booth phone is
also very useful. The chlorine level in the pool is useless.

The electron microscope is presently useless . . .

Other useless things include double speed bumps, the
architectural plan of Duke Dorm, Easter Monday classes,
the broken language lab equipment, Davidson tennis
socks, Union videos, and “satellite parking.”

A few things which could be very useful:

A shuttle bus to the Par 4 and the B & B, a faculty fash-
ion show, a fast food joint on campus, and a revival of Hat-
tie’s night and the Fijibus,
Pierotti is a junior philosophy major from Atlanta, Ga. and
is photography editor of The Davidsonian.

More people have survived
cancer than now live in the |

City of Los Angeles.

Please support the
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY’

This space contributed as a public service

We are winning.

‘I'm not sure, but if my latest
results are correct, then

A union Concert & Intimate Performances Production

See) APR. 26
Friday at 9 PM

Free Admission!

