THE

Volume LXXIV, Number 15

, Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, February 8, 1985

Jeff Himes makes a fast move against UT-C. See story on p

Davidson Administrator,
S57, Dies Of Heart Attack

E. Lee Willingham III, executive di-
rector of constituent programs and direc-
tor of the Living Endowment at David-
son College, died last Monday, Feb. 4,
following a heart attack suffered in Col-
umbus, Ga., the previous day. He was
57.

Willingham, of 412 Concord Road in
Davidson, had been a member of the de-
velopment staff here since 1978.

“It’s been quite a shock to us all,”
President John Kuykendall said. ‘He
was one of those people who loved
Davidson so completely that he not only
had a job here, but committed his whole

life to the institution.”

An ordained Presbyterian minister,
Willingham graduated from Davidson in
1948 with an A. B. degree in English.
While a student at Davidson, he was
vice-president of the student body , presi-
dent of the male chorus, named to Omic-
ron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity and
a member of Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity. He earned his master’s degree
in divinty, cum laude, from Columbia
Theological Seminary in 1951.

Before returning to Davidson, Wil-
lingham served as pastor of churches in

(continued on page 4)

Kuykendall Approves All
Women’s Eating House

By LEE WHITE

Yesterday President John Kuyken-
dall approved a proposal for a new all-
women’s eating house on campus. The
proposal was submitted to Kuykendall
by Dean of Students Will Terry after the
Committee on Campus and Religious
Life (CCRL) approved it Monday by an
8-0-1 vote. Freshmen women may self-
select the new house this week.

Kuykendall said there existed some
questions concerning the amount of use
the house would get, but there are no
basic problems with the proposal, he
said. Self-Selection lists were distributed
to freshmen yesterday.

According to sophomore Connie
Clark and freshman Cameron Chalmers,
who led efforts to establish the new
house, the house will be called Spencer
House, in honor of former Davidson
President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. Ina let-
ter accepting the honor, Clark said,
Spencer mentioned his pride in the fact
that it was during his administration that
Davidson became a co-ed institution:

Spencer House will open next fall
term. This spring, Clark and Chalmers
hope to have a social calendar. The new
house would occupy either the former
ATO or F & M houses.

Eighty-two women signed the propo-
sal approved by the CCRL. The proposal
states “A definite need exists for the es-
tablishment of such a house . . .” and
gives the following information:

— The results of a survey conducted
between Jan. 24 and 28, 1985, showed
96 percent of 115 freshmen women pol-
led felt that there is a need for a third all
women’s eating house.

— Also, 82 percent of the freshmen
women polled expressed a desire to eat in
a single-sex house.

— Eighty-one percent of the
freshmen women polled who are plan-
ning to join a co-ed eating house recog-
nized the need for a third all-women’s
eating house.

— After Self-Selection last year, 54
women were put on the waiting list at
Rusk (presently, 22 women remain on
that list).

— Approximately 20 women were
put on the waiting list at Warner Hall
after Self-Selection last year.

— The current presidents of both
Rusk and Warner Hall have expressed
their support for the new house.

Members ‘of CCRL felt that the pro-
posal proved there was a need for a new
all-women’s house. SGA president John
Laughlin said the proposal showed a de-
finite desire for the new house and thus
obligated the CCRL to approve it. “We
should not try to keep students from eat-
ing as they want,” he said. SGA Vice-
President Beadsie Woo felt that the need
for the house was demonstrated by the
number of freshmen who are committed
to the new house.

According to CCRL member Beth
Maczka, the evidence of support for a
new house from those who wish to join
and those in other eating houses con-
vinced her. She noted, however, a possi-
ble effect on the co-ed houses. “The gen-
eral concern [at the meeting] was for the
co-ed houses,” she said. Laughlin also
referred to the apprehension about the re-
maining co-ed houses, and said he hoped
they could “survive and thrive.”

CCRL member Elizabeth Brooks
said she thought the immediate effect of a
new house might be to “skew the
houses,” but felt that in the long run the
numbers would equal out. She said if 60
women join the new house, and if the two
co-ed houses get 15 freshman women
apiece, which Brooks said is about the
number they usually get, 90 freshman
women would have the options to eat at
Rusk, Warner Hall, the Commons, or go
independent.

Other CCRL members did not feel
that a third all-women’s cating house
would create undue competition between

(continued on page 4)

Ambiguities In Self-Selection System Draw Criticism

By TED WILSON

received secondhand.

hurting their social life later on.

Amid questions about Davidson’s social system,
freshmen began self-selecting Patterson Court houses
yesterday. Some students have expressed concern that
the on-campus fraternities are operating on an actual bid
system which they believe should
A not be called Self-Selection. No

News one idea has emerged, however, to
. answer the system's problems.
Analysis ean of Students Will Terry

formed a Self-Selection Commit-
tee last year to regulate the system.

During rush period this year, the Self-Selection
Committee investigated three cases of possible oral dis-
couragements, according to chairman Charles Jenkins.
He said subcommittees consisting of two people each
determined if there was enough information to merit
charges. Two cases were dropped because they were not
oral discouragements, Jenkins said. *He said the
freshmen involved misinterpreted information they had

Jenkins said the other case resulted in a written warn-
ing to Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. “It definitely was an
oral discouragement,” he said. There were ‘so many ex-
tenuating circumstances that the action we took was a
written warning against what had happened and an ex-
planation on how we made a decision.”

Jenkins said the discouragement resulted because
“one person [was] acting on his own and not on behalf of
the fraternity. That’s why it’s a warning.”

The Committee held several meetings concerning
Self-Selection on freshman halls to educate freshmen
about the system. Jenkins said the Committee learned
about the oral discouragement case, which resulted in
the warning to PiKA, at one of these meetings.

It also found through the question and answer ses-
sions that “freshmen are not satisfied with the Self-
Selection system,” Jenkins said. He said a big flaw of the
system is that freshmen may not want to bring a com-

plaint against a fraternity to the Committee for fear of

The Committee counsels freshmen who are having
difficulty with Self-Selection, seeks to eliminate the past
abuses of the system, and to adjudicate abuses if they
arise. However, one freshman said, “I would be very re-
luctant to bring [a charge] up to the Committee. It would
be the last thing I'd want to make public or talk about.”

Terry said he had no way of judging whether the
number of oral discouragements has increased since last
year, but that “practically nobody has come up to talk to
me about it.”

Some freshmen pledging fraternities, freshmen re-
maining independent, and upperclassmen have ex-
pressed dissatisfaction with the system. Some students
are concerned the system is a bid system in disguise. One
pledge said, “It’s simply a farce; it doesn't exist beyond
the co-ed eating houses.” Another freshman said.
“There's no distinction between an oral encouragement
and a bid — it's ridiculous the school doesn't call ita bid

(continued on page 4)
