10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Richard Tankard, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

John Gathings, Editor

Signals for reevaluation

The recent incident in Irwin dormitory demonstrates the need for Re-
sident Advisors to have keys to the fire alarms. In an article in this week’s
paper, Housing Director Tom Jennipgs stated two reasons for giving the
keys to campus security instead. He said if the RAs are not in the dorm
the police must be called anyway. This reasoning is logical. RAs have
social lives, much like the rest of the students, and probably do not want
to be tied down to their rooms, especially on weekends. However, the
new RA policy assigns an RA to be on duty for each weekend. Thus, an
RA is available on weekends, and if this RA has an alarm key, he or she
can spare the dormitory residents from 30 minutes or more of sleep dis-
ruption.

Jennings also said he believes students will be more likely to cause
false alarms, knowing an RA will be near to quickly shut one off. How-
ever intent does not seem to play a strong role in the false alarms. Mainte-
nance Engineer Phillip Cashion said the smoke alarms are sensitive
enough to be activated by a match lit in the hall. Director of Public Safety
Jackie Hughes hypothesized: that alarms were set off by cooking, and
said he does not believe students intentionally set off fire alarms very
often.

Police officer Ray Thrower said that a convenient record of alarms
could be kept if police officers responded to the calls. However, it seems
simple for an RA to make a record of an incident when it occurs. None of
the reasons for denying RAs keys are really valid. If there is truly a prob-
lem with alarms set off on purpose, then the offending student should be
dealt with individually, With the current setup, all residents of a dormit-
ory are punished for the possibly intentional actions of a single student,
and this situation is unfair. Anyone who has had to Stay up through 30
minutes of a fire alarm is at a disadvantage when compared with the stu-
dent who has had a night of uninterrupted sleep. Ata school where one or
two tests could determine a significant part of the final class grade, stu-
dents need an environment in which they can perform their best. The
Housing Office needs to re evaluate its current policies regarding fire
alarm keys. The annoyance of false alarms can then be minimized, and
the Housing Office can have a record of alarms that is as good as one pro-
vided by campus security.

Note:
With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the fall term,

1985. We will resume publishing at the beginning of the winter term,
1985-86. See you then!

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 26036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do nat necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for firet class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidsan College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson,
David Williams ; .

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug
Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong *
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith ;
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles &
Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen
Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, David
Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan’
Laure Van Dierdonck

Friday, November 8, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

IF THE FIRE ALARM RINGS
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT; You
SHOULD RUA FOR YOUR LIFE BECAUSE °

CVA.

Po.

As Cut e195

THERE MAY GEA FIRE.

RAs WILL BE FURIOUSLY
LOOKING FOR A KEY TO
TURN THE ALARM OFF.

PHILLIP CASHION WILL
RIGHTFULLY MURDER THE
PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR
AWAKENING HIM To DRIVE
FROM MOORESVILLE WITH THE
KEY TO TURN THE ALARM OFF,

BOTH ‘BAND ©’,

4

Letters

~ Tennis Center

To the Editor:

During the recent Homecoming
Weekend, Davidson College gathered to-
gether to celebrate the completion and for-
mal dedication of the Louise and Carl
Knobloch Tennis Center. The construction
of these four indoor tennis courts, repre-
senting the first phase of a project to build a
modern and comprehensive athletics com-
plex, addresses both sports and recreational
needs on our campus. Now we want very
much to make this beautiful facility avail-
able to students, faculty, and staff. To
accomplish this, however, we need to do
something that is not commonly done on the
Davidson campus — we need to charge a
nominal fee to help defray the costs of prop-
er maintenance and supervision while the
Center is open. Since our current operating
budget did not anticipate these needs, if we
do not charge this fee, our one alternative
would be to restrict the hours of availabil-
ity, something we simply don’t want to do.

We have to establish the following
guidelines for the use of the Knobloch Cen-
ter:

(1) Students, faculty, or staff may call
on the day they wish to play and reserve
court space for a minimum of one or a
maximum of two hours. Tentatively, the
hours available for play will be noon until
11 p.m., seven days a week. Before noon,
you should call Ext. 377 to reserve a court;
after noon, Ext. 438. =

(2) There will be a nominal charge of
one dollar per person per court hour to
cover the costs of maintenance and supervi-
sion.

(3) Initially, only Davidson students,

faculty, or staff may reserve court time.

(4) Only regulation tennis shoes will be
permitted. The cushioned playing surface is
the finest available and we are determined
to protect jt. The supervisor on duty will
check the soles of each player. Also, no ac-
tivities except normal tennis play will be al-
lowed on the court surface.

(5) Players only will be permitted
downstairs. However, we would like to in-

vite spectators to watch the play at any time
from the mezzanine viewing area.

In all honesty, we are feeling our way
along on this project, as it is impossible to
establish the amount of interest. Be assured
that we will be flexible and make adjust-
ments as the demand dictates. Also, we
would like to encourage your suggestions as
to ways to improve our programs.

In the course of our travels, we have
Seen a great many tennis facilities at many
of the leading schools. In our estimation,
this is the finest facility we have ever seen
on a college campus. As we are committed
to maintaining this facility to preserve its
excellence, we are also committed to mak-
ing this your Center and making it available
when you want the opportunity for exercise
and fellowship. Please bear with us in our
infancy and guide us in our development.
The Knobloch Tennis Center will open for
your use on Monday, December 2. We
hope to see you in the Center soon and

often. Jeff Frank,

Director of Tennis Operations
Christopher B. Morris,
Director of Athletics

Panel
To the Editor,

As a member of the student panel that
interviewed Dean Rusk at the recent COn-
vocation, I wish to make two points regard-
ing Dr. Anderson’s article in last week’s
paper. First, a format that allows follow-
ups to questions tends to take the form of an
interrogation, which seemed highly inap-
propriate in the atmosphere of a convoca-
tion and in the presence of a distinguished
guest of the college: Second, Dr. Perry,
who organized the panel presentation,

‘asked only that the panelists confer so as to

avoid repetition. We were never told not to
ask “hard. questions”. In fact, we were en-
couraged by both Dr. Perry and Mr. Rusk’s
son to feel free in challenging Mr. Rusk. If
anyone feels our questions were too easy, |
would remind that person of the Nature of
the event in question and of the fact that no
one instructed the panelists to avoid diffi-
cult questions.

Sayres Rudy
