Friday, February 1, 1985/The Davidsonian 7

SPORTS

Cats Fall

To Western
Carolina

By STEVE BYERS

Davidson squandered an opportunity
to take sole possession of second place in
the Southern Conference as the Wildcats
lost a 58-57 thriller at Western Carolina
last night.

Thanks to The Citadel’s upset of
Marshall on Wednesday, Davidson (4-3,
8-12) needed a win in Cullowhee to re-
place the Herd in second place in the
leagué. Unfortunately, the Cats didn't
get it. Freshman point guard Derek
Rucker, who finished wtih 13 points,
missed a short jumper with three seconds
left that would have won it for Davidson.

Rucker’s shot was set up by West-
Vincent Walker's missed free
throw with 20 seconds remaining. The
Cats worked the ball around until Rucker
put it up from near the foul line. Time ran
out as a wild scramble ensued for the re-
bound.

There were no last-second heroics for
Rucker this time (a la Appalachian
State), but he didn’t need any last-second
shots against The Citadel.

After the Wildcats had disposed of
South Carolina, they returned to the
friendly confines of Johnston Gym last
Saturday night to battle The Citadel.
Only it wasn’t so much a battle as it was a

ems

one-man show.

Rucker had shown everybody that he
could run a spread offense and shoot free
throws when it counted in the South
Carolina game. Now it was time to show
what else he could do. Namely penetrate.
pass, block shots, steal and shoot.
Rucker finished the game with 31 points,
seven assists, five rebounds and four
blocks.

Rucker’s performance keyed the Cats
to a 102-92 victory over the Bulldogs.
Obviously, it was a big offensive night
for Davidson. The Cats shot 67.5% from
the floor for the game, picking up right
where they left off at South Carolina. In-
cluded in that number was Rucker’s hot
hand — he hit 10 out of 12 from the field.

Overall, Davidson played inspired
basketball. At one point, midway
through the second half, the Cats had
opened a lead of 26 points at 70-44. But
after that things got a little sloppy and_a
lot boring. The game deteriorated into a
foul shooting contest between the two
clubs in the last seven minutes.

By SCOTT HUIE

Being named conference player of
the week as a freshman happens about
as often as Dr. J missing aslam dunk in
the open court, i.e., seldom to none.
That same player's leading the team in
almost every offensive category is

zanother athletic wonder. Nevertheless,

Davidson’s own six-foot, 160-pound
point guard Derek Rucker has man-
aged to do both.

After 19 games on the college
level, the freshman from Cleveland
leads the team in points (13 per game),
minutes played (34.3 per game), as-
sists (75), and steals (40). He also is
shooting 53 percent from the field and
82 percent from the free throw line and
has six blocked shots.

His statistics last week bear the
mark of a budding star. Against The
Citadel, he converted 10 of 12 field
goal attempts and 11 of 12 free throws
for 31 points. In the Cats’ upset win
over South Carolina, he scored 19 and
had no turnovers.

“Impressive, but not All-America-
type accomplishments,” you say.
Well, what makes his rise to promi-
nence such a novelty is that Davidson
was the only Division I school that
seriously recruited him. Although Fur-
man, Iowa, and Columbia showed
some interest, it was the Elons. the
Johnson C. Smiths, and the Gardner
Webbs of college basketball that bec-
koned his services the most. Chalk one
up for the Davidson recruiters for find-
ing such a gem.

“We knew all along that he had the
court savvy and the intelligence to con-
tribute immensely to our program,”
said Coach Bobby Hussey. “We knew
that he was the type who could handle
those pressure situations without being
rattled. But what was a pleasant sur-
prise was his ability — despite a lack
of strength and physical maturity — to
stand up to Division I basketball.”

Instinct Leads To Rucker’s Success

Derek Rucker shows off his style

Was Rucker himself surprised?
“Maybe a little bit.” he said, “but I
just felt that if Coach Hussey gave me a

chance, then I could perform well.”
... Well enough perhaps to be
the team’s most valuable player
through the first twenty games of the
season. Said sophomore redshirt Todd
Scott, “He's made the difference in our
ball team, I think. He can dish it, shoot
it, and handle it. He’s a complete pack-

age.”
Part of that package has been an
acute sense of basketball instinct

which almost seems to propel the
team. “He's the consummate point
guard,” said Wildcat enthusiast Steve
Soud. “He knows what to do at all
times: pass, shoot, or dribble. Sure |
think he’s been the MVP so far.”

But both he and Hussey shun such

Rocky Kmiecik

accolades. “Its definitely been a team
effort.” Rucker said.

“No, there aren’t any stars on this
team.” Hussey said. “This is the most
balanced, deepest team we've had
since I’ve been here.”

Quickly becoming — Rucker's
trademark Is a move for which he alone
has the patent: he jukes left, spins
right, and pulls up at the foul line for
the jumper. You can count on it like
you can count on a bad grade in phys-
ICs,

Now before you say “basketball
god,” Rucker whose nickname on the
team ts “Papa Smurf.” still has much to
learn. “Defensively, he has a long way
to go.” says Hussey. “He tends to force
the action a little too much. But Derek
is a perfectionist. If he makes a mis-
take, he’s the first to Know it.”

Not only was there a steady parade to
the foul line, but Davidson's reserves
were unable to do much of anything of-
fensively or defensively. Finally, Hus-
sey was forced to reinstate his regulars to
preserve the lead in the closing minutes.
Embarrassing, perhaps, but necessary.

Anyway, the Cats did hold on, but
Rucker wasn't the only reason. Junior
Pepper Bego came off the bench to score
17 points in only 18 minutes. while
junior Gerry Born played his usual solid

game with 13 points and a game-high
nine rebounds. The Citadel's Regan
Truesdale led the losers in scoring with a
quiet (if that’s possible) 29.

Well, Davidson returns home tomotr
row night to begin a
“homestand. Saturday night's opponent
is red-hot UT-C. Coach Murray Arnold's
Moccasins are the surprise of the South

three-game

ern Conference so far this season, and
they come to Davidson in first place with
an 8-0 record (15-4 overall). Monday

night the Cats face a shell-shocked Ap
palachian State club in Charlotte On
Wednesday Davidson hosts Furman
UT-C looks sate in first place. but
second place ts definitely within David
son's reach. But to wind up there, the
Cats need two, maybe three, wins this
week. Davidson always plays UTC
tough in Johnston Gym, and it should be
But the ASU and Furman
games are must-wins if the Cats are to

a preat pame

stay in the league race

Despite Losses Women’s Team Shows Improvement

By DWAYNE D. WRIGHT

Have you seen the Lady Cats play
lately? If you have then you know that
they are a much-improved team com-
pared to last season. The Lady Cats, after
thirteen gumes, have a 3-10 record, al-
though two of the wins resulted from for-
feits. There is a visible improvement in
their play,

After 10 games last season the Lady
Cats averaged 33.2 points per game; this
year after 10 games they were averaging
61.6 ppg. However, while their offen-
sive output has increased the team still

has problems stopping opponents from
scoring. Coach Pat Daley said, “Defen-
sively we are better but not consistent
and we could be more aggressive.”

Monday afternoon the Lady Cats
were simply outmanned by Stetson Uni-
versity. The taller and quicker Hatters
outrebounded Davidson, 44-13, and had
15 steals en route to a 106-46 victory.
The Lady Cats did not attempt a single
free throw during the game.

Sophomore Mary Griffith led the
team with 14° points. Junior Amy
Hartman and sophomore Heather McKee

contributed 10 points apiece. The Pre-
sbyterian game was more of the same as
the Lady Cats lost 105-45. The quicker
Presbyterian team capitalized on 29
Davidson turnovers.

Coach Daley is looking at the upcom-
ing week with cautious optimism. “We
can win three out of four games next
week if we play the best we can,” Daley
said. Tomorrow's game with
Greensboro College could be the team’s
next win, according to Daley. “It's with-
in our reach; it’s the type of game that we
can win if we can control the tempo.”

Until the Stetson game the team’s
leading scorers were McKee 17 |
points per game, Hartman 11.6. and
Griffith — 11.4. McKee led in rebounds,
hauling down 6.9 boards per game and
Hartman led in assists with 6.5 per game

The Lady Cats have improved greatly
since the beginning of the season and al
though that improvement: has slowed
down since Christmas the team ts playing
a step above. If the team can add some
aggressive defense to an improved of
fense the next week may prove to be very
exciting
