6

4

Friday, March 29, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By STEVE MANK

Critics of rock and roll always accuse
it of being many things, but never re-
served. If a band is going to be light and
poppy it does it with.a passion. If they are
going to be heavy and asinine they do it
with equal passion. Rock and roll simply
does not compromise.

But every now and then a group
comes along on some impossible quest—
the happy medium. Such groups seldom
send shockwaves throughout the music
world, or even make any more than mod-
est showings on the charts. What they do
do is tie off the occasional loose ends that
popular music develops periodically as it
passes through its various stages of
evolution.

Graham Parker has been on the music
scene for some time and although he has
yet to lay the rock world bare he does
exercise some influence. His music is
catchy, toe-tapping pop with noticeable

heavy metal. His wit is strong, but pleas-
antly subtle such that it does not bog

rings of folk, big band and even a tinge of '

down an otherwise good song with too,
much “meaning.”

Parker’s new LP, Steady Nerves is
not.a great album, but it is remarkably
consistent, and never weak. It opens with
the chirping and croaking of some
primordial being only to spontaneously
lunge into the echo-laden “Break Them
Down.” The lush chorus of female voices
do not fight the grinding guitar solo of
Brinsley Scharz, but rather serve to com-
plement it.
months ago in complete sincerity. The
fact that he can invert the meaning just
with the tone of his voice, indicates a
razor-sharp intellect that is kind enough
to us peons that it does not inflict itself
upon us.

The first side ends with “When You
Do That To Me,” a musical Yin and
Yang. The cut opens as an accoustic soul-
ful song in the tradition of Van Morrison,
but suddenly bursts into the canon-drum-
ming, head-rending sound of, say, Phil
Collins. The song switches back and
forth between the two styles until the end,

Parker Brings New Meaning To Rock And Roll

People listening to Parker for the first
time will notice some suspicious
similarities in sound and vocal technique
to Elvis Costello. Actually, Parker has
been singing and playing like that since
1971. Every now and then, it’s nice to
hear the work of the master as opposed to
the student who surpassed him.

Like Costello, Parker is a master of
sarcasm. Parker, however, is much less
biting. In “Lunatic Fringe” he sings “I
wanna thank you/for sticking my neck
out.” Somehow you know that he said
those words to the same person a few
leaving it to the listener to interpolate the
artist’s true stand.

Parker’s new band, The Shot, makes
its first appearance on Steady Nerves.
Some will miss the tightness and intri-
cacy of his last band, the Rumour, but the
heart of that band, Brinsley Schwarz re-
mains. Although the new combo es-
pouses a more “80s sound,” Schwarz pre-
serves traditional lead guitar styles with a
freshness that defies revisionist classifi-
cation.

The one song that truly recalls the old
school of rock and roll is “Black Lincoln
Continental.” The appropriately idiotic
(and hopefully ironic) lyrics boast the
joys of women and cars while Schwarz’s
rolling slide guitar continually tries to
throw the listener off balance.

“Everyone’s Hand is on the Switch”
could be embarrassingly political, but
Parker opts not for the tunnel vision of a
“message song.” Rather, he attempts to
universalize the song. Though the switch
could be the one that launches “the big
one,” there are many more spiritual nu-
clear holocausts occurring than physical
ones. The only way to disengage the ac-
tual “switch” is to disengage the mental
ones. While the other pop stars may
preach sermons about nuclear disarma-
ment at the expense of the music,
Parker’s success is in his ability to allow
the two to subtly and completely interact.
And though he may never be remem-
bered as an artist of driving vision, no one
should be able to deny that he is an artist
of balance.

The Trial Provides Curious Blend Of Kafka And Welles

By MATT MORRIS

Arrested by the police for a crime never
explained to him, K. (Anthony Perkins)
spends much of his time in Orson Welles’
1962 film The Trial wandering about in
oversized rooms and opulent sets filled with
books, candles and web-handed women.
Not surprisingly, K. is constantly at odds
with his surroundings and forever asks,
‘Where is my trial?” He is attacked by chil-
dren and in one sequence talks about free
will with an old woman who is dragging a
mysterious trunk across a field toa bus stop.
Welles’ The Trial, playing this Satur-
day in Love Auditorium, has the master’s
usual quota of eye-popping visuals, but I’m

not sure the Kafka/Welles marriage is made
for everyone. Kafka purists will argue that
the mechanical “gimmick-oriented” direc-
tor has abandoned the writer’s “‘poeticism”
(more on this later) for maximum cinematic
effect. Fans of Welles, myself included, re-
joice in his use of expressionistic lighting,
claustrophobic space and pacing at any ex-
pense. If you’ve never seen a Welles movie
before, here’s your chance to catch him
grappling at new, daring, not always suc-
cessful, but always interesting, territory.
As Welles says in the opening moments
of The Trial, here is a story told “like a
dream.” Images come forward and recede
with varying degrees of randomness and

coherency. Welles fills out the film with er-
ratic, eclectic moments. He employs ex-
pressionist abstracting, as in the
mechanized mass of workers in the office; a
brutally matter-of-fact policy in interroga-
tion that rings closest to Kafka’s own style;
and stark lighting, particularly in several
dark confusing attic sequences. All these
elements add up tg a purgatory of rampant
style over substance. The Trial’s sweaty,
grainy photography and jump-cut editing
have an Andy Warhol sense of the arbitrary
and the grotesque; this often shoestring film
benefits from its own cheapness and Welles
has a blast with backlot mayhem.

But is The Trial (the film) good Kafka?

Perhaps a better question would be: Is there
such a thing as good Kafka? In Saturday’s
movie the “plot” rings of pretension and
The Trial’s only slow moments are when
the story takesover from the visual dynam-
ics. But this rarely happens and Welles
grabs the reins of the movie, clearly stand-

ing artistically head-and-shoulders above
his material. Chances are you'll be far more
hypnotized by the world Welles photo-
graphs and his manipulation of space and
form rather than the actual ‘allegory.’ It is,
ultimately, his own dream Welles lenses,
not Kafka’s, but for 118 minutes on Satur-
day night it can be, and should be, yours as
well.

Study abroad at the

ITHACA COLLEGE
LONDON CENTER

m SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
@ ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
@ BRITISH FACULTY.

Visits to the theatre,
museums, galleries,
schools, social and
political institutions are
an integral part of the
curriculum.

COURSES — British and European studies
are offered in literature, history, art history,
drama, music, sociology, education,
psychology, communications, and politics.
Special program oftered in Drama. !ntern-
ships available to qualified students in
International Business, Social Services,

For turther information
write: *
International Programs

Communications, Political Science, and

- SP
Ithaca College
Economics.

Itha :a, New York 14850 |

AOE AAS

Excellent summer r counseling opportunities for | men
and women who are interested in serving boys and girls
ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedi-
cate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized ac-
tivities. College students, teachers, and coaches should
apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast
of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swim-
ming and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on
the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, rif-
lery and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water
canoeing and tripping are extras in our excellent pro-
gram. For further information write or call G. William
Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50,
Clover, S.C., , 29710 (803- 831 2121).

BUFFET
—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

Sunday Tues., Wed.
12 Noon & Thurs.
‘til 5 P.M.
9:00 P.M. tiL®9 P.M.

241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—-MOORESVILLE 663-3030
Meal Includes:

SPAGH ETTI 100% Durham Wheat

PIZ -_
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE ZA suit Moorosuite's Finest

SPICY PEPP
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD Cat ERONI

°“N BACON
PARMESON— ROMANO CHEESE ITAL Xt oASAGe
CHO i) BEEF
SALAD BAR 45 Items FRE ther DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWELT ONIONS

FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS

FLAVORFUL MEATS

RICH DRESSINGS

TASTY CHEESES

WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE

CHILI CON CARNE

$#89

ALL FOR PERSON

SPECIAL RATES .
FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25° PER YEAR

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat.. 11 AM-2:30 PM $2.99

