Zes Hes Ses
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIV, Number 14

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, February 1, 1985

Fannie & Mable To Close At End Of Winter Term

By LEE WHITE

Fannie & Mable’s 37 members voted
Monday night to close the eating house at
the end of winter term. According to
F & M president Sherry Schwenke, the
decision to.close resulted from increas-
ing deficits and declining membership.
F & M treasurer Mark Steiner said the
situation had become unmanagable. A
fall deficit of $883 had been covered by
surplus money. Winter term, however, is
costlier because of heating bills and quar-
terly taxes due in December.

F & M faces the possibility of a
$2,500 deficit this term. Members had
agreed that they would cover F & M's
debts, he said, but “we don’t expect to
have a deficit.” The house is implement-
ing cost-cutting measures in hopes of al-
leviating the debt.

In order to strengthen the house and
avoid closing, an effort was made to at-
tract freshmen to house meals. Sixy-five
freshmen signed up for meals winter
term. However, Steiner said, when
house members asked if they believed
F & M would get at least 20 freshman
members, “no one raised their hands.”

Among the steps being taken'to keep |
the house from facing a deficit when it
closes, weekend meals have been elimi-
nated, and efforts have been made to re-
duce food costs. Breakfast food has been

all

discontinued, desserts will be limited,
and there is no social budget. The house
may also auction its belongings to raise
funds. .

_ According to F & M vice-president
Catherine Melton: the “house has been
steadily declining for three years, as
fewer freshmen self-selected it each
year. “The closing comes as no surprise
to me.” she said. “I’ve known it was

More Than
Davidson's
First Lady’

By THURSTON HATCHER

Though she has tolerated over the
past months a number of annoying ti-
tles as “the president's wife” and,
worse, “Davidson’s first lady.” Missy
Kuykendall does not seem to have an
identity problem. In fact, she could
comfortably say that she has estab-
lished herself as her own individual at
Davidson.

Ever since her husband John began
serving as Davidson's new president
last July, Kuykendall has actively de-
veloped her own role as a valuable
contributor to the community. She has
used her experience in psychology
(she has a master’s degree in counsel-
ing and student development) to find
her niche here.

Among other things, she is a mem-
ber of Davidson's new RAPE pro-
gram; she taught a short course in as-
sertiveness training, she is working
with Bill Bolding and the Housing Of-
fice on the selection and training of re-
sident advisors; and she is directing in
Charlotte a humanities project. cur-
rently in its proposal stage. which
would explore medical ethics.

Despite her long list of activities,
Kuykendall believes that the working

Missy Kuykendall, Jamie, and
Sweetie-Pie

equilibrium she shared with her hus-
band at Auburn has shifted now She
was a conference coordinator there.
yet now she has no official position.
And, of course, her husband's work
load has grown considerably. “It used
to be equal.” she says. “But now mine

is almost nil while his is 24 hours.”
Life for Missy and sons Tim, 18.
(continued on page 4)

meme

F&M cooks, Fannie Brandon (right) and Mable Torrence

going to happen for a long time.” She
feels that some members lacked interest
in changing the situation. Although a
mandatory guest policy was set up to en-
courage members to bring people down
for meals ,-some members failed to do so.
College Busiuness Manager Bob
Currie said the plans for closing took him
by surprise. Over the years. he said.
F & M has been one of the stronger eat-

ing houses.

The College will not assume respon-
sibility for any debts F & M might have.
he said. If necessary, members would be
assessed for those debts.

Some members plan to join Emanon
spring term or to eat at the proposed all-
women’s eating house next year. Others
will eat at the Commons or on their own.

The implications of F & M’s closing
for co-ed eating on Patterson Court are
not clear. Schwenke said there
“strong link” between the house and the
FIJI fraternity in people's minds. She
said a decrease in FIJI pledges has been
part of the problem of decreasing mem-
bership. She also feels that the trend 1s to-
ward single-sex eating. “There is less di-
versity on the court,” she said. Currie
also sees a trend toward single-sex
houses, but added that F & M, with its
association with FIJI, is a special case.

Emanon president Sid Jones. who
called the closing a “real tragedy.” said
he feels that co-ed eating will always be a
part of Patterson Court. Emanon. he said
is currently stable with 65 to 70 mem-
bers. He added there is always the need

to actively solicit new members. PAX
President Murray Simpson said. “There
is a good market of people interested in
what co-ed eating houses offer.” He

stressed the need for enthusiasm in work -

ing to attract interested people

Sa

Panel Evaluates Task
Force’s Race Report

By DAVID McGEE

A Reaction Panel has completed its
evaluation of the Task Force on Racial/
Ethnic Concern’s report, which was re-
leased in December.

According tothe Reaction Panel “The
report [by the Task Force] 1s a bold un-
dertaking for which the Davidson Col-
lege administration and the Task Force
should be commended. Our overall reac-
tion was that the report was intellectually
honest and identified many of the prob-
lems that must be addressed. The report
clearly points out that previous efforts in
this area have not been as successful as
they could have been if they had been ag-
gressively implemented.”

The Reaction Panel included persons
outside Davidson who are associated
with the College and residents of the
town of Davidson.

“We concluded,” the Panel's report
says, “that the Report was developed
against a background of historical resis-
tance to dramatic change and with the
full view of how much could reasonably
be expected to be achieved.”

The Panel calls for Davidson to
“specify more clearly” the objectives it
has to improve minority students’ experi-
ence here.

“These objectives should include
numerical goals with target dates for
accomplishing these goals. We believe
thaf this is necessary in view of the in-
adequacy of past efforts.”

One area of concern includes the Ad-
missions and Dean of Students offices.
Both offices, the report says, “are
primarily responsible for implementing
many of the proposed strategies of the re-
port, yet these offices, in our view, share
much of the responsibility for the present
state of affairs.”

For the Admissions department to
achieve its objectives, “resources, both
dollars and people, must be increased
dramatically in order for the recruiting
program to be successful,” according to
the report.

In addition, the Panel urges the Col-
lege to improve tts relations with David-
son's black community through estab-
lishing a Community Advisory Council
which would voice concerns among
blacks in town to” President) John
Kuykendall.

The panel said Davidson could over-
come obstacles in recruiting more black
students by developing resources that
presently are not used, “such as the
ROTC department scholarship recruiting
program. There was little evidence, ex-
cept in the Athletic department, that
urban area high schools have been visited
or networked to any significant degree”

About Dean of Admissions John
Griffith's minority recruiting goals, the
Panel said, “we believe if he is supported
by resources the minority student recruit:
ment will be among the best in colleges
