Friday, October 3, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words

11

Bush blunders his way through campaign

’ tly apologized for ever calling Reagan’s economic poli-

¢

By TIM BROWN

During the early dog days of August, Knight Pub-
lishing Company was conducting a survey and tallying
--up some surprising responses. In this survey, each of_
609 randomly selected Southern adults was asked
whether he had heard of each of 17 potential presidential
candidates, eight of whom were Republicans and nine of
whom were Democrats. For each potential presidential
candidate he recognized, the person surveyed was asked
whether his opinion of that candidate was favorable or
unfavorable. (To give you some idea of the survey’s
general validity, Knight Publishing Company conserva-
tively estimates “that the results in 19 of 20 samples of
this size would vary no more than plus or minus four per-
centage points from the results obtained if every South-
ern adult were surveyed.”) George Bush was the most
popular and most liked of the prospective candidates.
Ninety-six per cent of the Southern adults surveyed had
heard of George Bush, which is not surprising. Sixty-
four percent of those who recognized George Bush
judged him to be a favorable presidential candidate,
which to many reasonable people is surprising. It is
probable that many Southern women and many South-
ern gentlemen have not inhaled the malodorous scent of

George Bush’s flowery words.

George Bush’s campaign strategists thought that
they had a strategy that would enable Bush to slide into
the presidency in November of 1988 with as much ease
as he displays slipping into his hand-crafted cowboy
boots. Their strategy was to have Bush continue to emu-
late Reagan, but to have Bush gradually and carefully
reveal his individualism. Bush was to reveal his indi-
vidualism by aiding GOP candidates in 1986 with his
own political action committee, by making plenty of
public appearances at key times and at key places, and
by carefully showcasing some of his tailor-made politi-
cal ideas during his trips at home and abroad.

_ After the Reagan landslide in November of 1984
Bush thought longingly about November 1988, and
quietly started to work on his own presidential: campaign
strategy. Bush decided to baptize his campaign in the
waves of support for Reaganomics. With a face as sin-
cere as Tom Sawyer’s, Bush claimed that he now sup-
ports every one of Reagan’s economic policies, atid sub-

Amnesty International pleads for aid in Chile

Jay Barron and Mibs Raney

Amnegty International is an organization working glob-
ally to secure freedom for prisoners of conscience, people

cies “voodoo economics.” Bush emulated, sometimes
to his detriment, Reagan’s spirited rhetoric concerning
some politically and morally hot topics: arms control,
tax reform, South African sanctions, and the Contras.
Bush must have-swallowed hard as he emulated the
thetoric with which Reagan labeled the Contras “‘the
moral equivalents of our Founding Fathers.” Senator
Bob Dole, the Republican Senate Majority Leader, said
that Bush even tried to emulate Reagan’s macho image
by visiting the President’s ranch to “chop horses and ride-. ,
wood.” '

As he. attempts to reveal his individualism Bush re-
minds many people of a punch-drunk Muhammad Ali.
Sometimes Bush moves like a butterfly and stings like a
bee. And at other times Bush makes some unforgivable
verbal bhinders. Since #984 Bush and his own political-
action committee have aided GOP candidates politically:
and financially. He has collected a ballot box of IOU’s
from these GOP candidates, which he'll cash in on in
1988. Bush has become a patriotic and compassionate
minuteman who is able to appear at a celebration or
catastrophe in a minute’s notice. Bush appeared at the
Fourth of July parade in Bristol, N.H., visited a soup
kitchen in western Pennsylvania to listen to and eat with
the homeless victims of a tornado, and visited many of
the South’s drought-stricken farmers.

Bush loses the grace of the butterfly and the sting of
the bee when he stumbles to make flowery public
speeches on his trips at home and abroad. On the morn-
ing when Bush visited the tornado victims in western
Pennsylvania, he told them that he came to see them “at
the behest of the President.” By that‘afternoon Bush was
branded a liar. His campaign strategists had arranged
and promoted the trip. While at a highfalutin campaign
dinner in New York, Bush claimed that Gov. Cuomo,
also a potential presidential candidate for 1988, is a lib-
eral who protects cop killers such as Charles Culhane
and Gary McGivern. A careful inspection of Culhane’s
and McGivern’s case histories convinces the thoughtful .
reader that the evidence used to convict them of killing a
police officer is as shady as the area under a larger, green
oak tree. They have been in prison for 18 years and have
maintained spotless prison records. And Bush’s sly in-
sinuation that liberals, by nature of their political philos-
ophies, are protectors of cop killers was unmercifully at-

The victim’s mother, Veronica de Negri, visited
Davidson last fall as a speaker and advocate for Amnesty
International. A former prisoner under the Chilean govern-
ment for her involvement with union activities, she was

tacked by William F. Buckley and George F. Will,
whose pens were as sharp as the teeth of a piranha.

Bush’s flowery words have met similar success
abroad. Take for example his recent trip to Jordan. Bush
demanded inat the Jordanians supply him with helicop-
ters to ferry him and his entourage to a remote army base {-
in Jordan. Because the Jordanians’ tiny air force could
not reasonably spare the number of helicopters Bush
needed, they offered him automobiles. Bush refused the
automobiles and angrily replied to the Jordanians, “If
you cannot provide the helicopters, you should borrow
them from the Israeli air force.” This statement caused
many Jordanians to stand with their mouths wide open
and many other Jordanians to writhe with anger for two
reasons. Jordan has been in a technical state of war with
Israel since 1967, when the Israelis seized the West
Bank of the River Jordan. And last spring Jordan’s King
Hussein asked the U.S. to supply him with one helicop- -
ter so he could'see his two daughters graduate from their
two separate New England prep schools. He did not get
his helicopter. But you can bet your hand-crafted cow-
boy boots that Bush got his helicopter.

George Bush left Jordan as he had entered Jordan -—
with a bang of a blunder. A couple hours before he was
supposed to leave Jordan, Bush requested that the Jorda- °
nians stage military manuevers: So his camera men
could take dramatic photos of Bush perched on a hill
with cannons firing and tanks churning below him and
with the sunset behind him. The Jordanians had to call
on the U:S. Embassy in orderto convince Bush that such
military manuevers could be misconstrued by Israel or
Syria, causing a real battle to materialize. Embarrassed,
Bush found shelter in a joke. “Tell me, how dead is the
Dead Sea?” Bush asked Jordan’s Commander and Chief
Lt. Gen Zeid Bin Shaker. “Very dead”. . . “sir,” the
general replied.

If Bush does not learn tothink , think, think, before he
speaks, and if Southern voters catch wind of his verbal
blunders, two things are.sure to happen. Bush's presi-
dential campaign will be deader than the Dead Sea. And
after the funeral his campaign strategists will get to-
gether to drown their sorrows in tidal pools of Busch
beer.

and set them on fire. They were left for dead. The next day,
the two were discovered and taken to a hospital: 65 percent
of Rodrigo’s body was burnt, and his features and respirat-
ory system damaged beyond repair. Ms. de Negri left for

being held for political reasons, often under.conditions that held in jail for two years and was repeatedly raped and tor-_ Chile on July 3 and spent his last hours with him. He died
—vielate-their-human-rights and-dignity.-As_political_prison-—tured—Due in-part-to the efforts of -A-1,-she-was re ;

ers these people are often held under horrendous condi-
tions, and their incarceration frequently includes(forture.
Through mass letter writings aimed at various government
officials, Amnesty members exert worldwide pressure by
voicing their concern for those who are being held, and re-
questing improved conditions and eventual release on their
behalf. :

This'fall, Davidson Amnesty will be focusing its work
on a specific incident which is representative of the sense-
less brutality which continues to occur in oppressive re-
gimes worldwide. Our program is one of publicity and pro-
test against the violent death of Rodrigo Rojas de Negri, a

—€hilean exile who-returned to his country-last summer.———diers overtook both teenagers;.doused them with gasoline, sophomore from Charlottesville, Va.

Continued from page 10

raised by the Davidson CROP Walk goes
to the Davidson Hot Lunch Program at

the Community Center. Last year, the cream.

—_—_—

EROP Walk raised over $4000. Withthe ~~

Cones will. give the group raising the
most money two free gallons of ice

If_you.~are interested in walking o

and now travels throughout the United States relating her
experiences and representing A.I.

This past July, Veronica’s 19 year old son, Rodrigo de
Negri, was beaten and killed by members of the Chilean
army. He had returned to his homeland to try his hand as a
photographer and to search for his-father whom he had
never known. On July 1, Rodrigo traveled:to Santiago,
Chile, to visit the nearby shanties where a group of students.
was demonstrating against the military contro! of the dis-
trict. Without warning, soldiers arrived and began to vio-
lently disperse the group. In attempting to flee, a friend of .
Rodrigo’s fell and Rodrigo turned back to aid her; the sol-

ee

First-Rate Internships for Academic Credit

Available in Philadelphia and Washington D.C.
Winter Term and Spring Term

support of the College and Town, we
hope to better that this year.

Besides being a chance to help those
in need, the CROP Walk is an opportu-
nity to meet new people (yes, freshmen
are allowed), stretch your legs, and put
the finishing touches on that tan before
cold weather strikes. And Carolina

running in the CROP Walk or would like
to sponsor someone, call Gordon Wat-
kins at 892-9772, Jay Barron at 892-
6182, or Charlie Summers at the Chap-
lain’s Office (892-2000 ext. 342). Regis-
tration for the Walk begins at 1 p.m. and
the Walk starts at 2 p.m. Any help is
greatly appreciated... _ ;
Gordon Watkins

See representatives on campus Tuesday October /th
Wilson Room - Union

10:00-11:00 A.M. - Washington Center Program
2:00-3:00 P.M. - Philadelphia: Center Program

Information and Program description
‘in the Careers Office

Amnesty International feels that communication with
Veronica de Negri would be a comfort in her need, and is
now working to raise money for her as she attempts to sue
the Chilean government and pay her son’s hospital bills.
On October 6, there will be an AmneSty Letter Writing at

‘9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference Room; letters of protest

will be sent to the Chilean government on her behalf, and
sponsors have pledged money per each letter written. All
are welcomed to attend and join us in writing, or participate
as sponsors.

Barron is a sophomore from. Tuscaloosa, Al. Raney is a

i

