‘t Beyond Davidson

Friday, September 19, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN —

Paris bombed four times, Dow drops 110 points

-By DAVID WILLIAMS
Headlining events for the week Sept, 12-
18:

Around the World — Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak- and Israeli
Prime Minister Shimon Peres engaged in
a ‘24-hour summit in Alexandria and
agreed to form a committee to arrange an
international conference on Middle East
peace. Peres visited President Reagan
and played down the importance of such
a conference, stressing the need for “di-
rect negotiations” between Middle East
nations. Four men ambushed and seized
an accountant Friday at the American
University in Beirut. It was the second
‘kidnaping in one week of an American
citizen in Lebanon.

A bomb exploded Friday in a
crowded Paris cafeteria, injuring 40 per-
sons. On Sunday an underground explo-
sion on the Champs Elysees in Paris
killed a police officer and wounded two
others. Minutes later French Premier Jac-
ques Chirac announced he will take
“draconian measures” to combat a cur-
rent wave of terrorism in France. On
Monday a bomb blast at the Paris police
headquarters killed one person and im
jured 51. On Wednesday two men
bombed a crowded Paris clothing store,
killing five persons and injuring 52.

An explosive device planted in a trash
can in the Seoul airport killed five South
Koreans and’ injured 19 others. South
Korea accused North Korea of stagirig
the attack.

President Reagan warned that the re-
stricted status of American journalist
Nicholas Daniloff, whom the Soviets ac-
cuse of espionage, could impede prog-
ress in future arms control talks. The
Soviets released Daniloff to the U.S. em-

bassy in Moscow, and the United States, -

turned over Soviet U.N. employee. Gen-
nadi Zakharov to the Soviet ambassador
in New York, but the transfer did not alter
their status as prisoners. In a related
move, the Reagan administratiofi an-
mounced it was expelling 25 Soviets at-
taches of the U.N. in New York who are
suspected of espionage.

Philippines President Corazon
Aquino visited President Reagan for the
first time since taking office last Feb-
ruary. Reagan pledged $160 million in
new economic and military aid to the
Philippines.

In Baghdad, Iraqis held a mass fun-
eral procession for 24 victims of an Ira-
nian missile attack. Iraq reported*Tues-
day that its fighter-bombers struck an Ira-

‘nian oil terminal in the northem end of

the Persian gulf, damaging Iranian anti-
aircraft defenses.
The South African government

ban on new U.S. investment and bank
loans. Foreign Ministers of 12 European
nations ‘also agreed to impose limited
sanctions on South Africa, including a
ban on imports of iron, ‘steel, and gold
coins.

In other events — The United Na-
tions opened a three-month General As-
sembly session Wednesday and elected
the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh,
Humayun’ Rasheed Choudhury, as its
president. ;

An unarmed, submarine-launched
Soviet missile misfired during a test and
landed in northeastern China. Western
creditor nations voted to give Mexico
more time to repay its $1.8 billion debt.
Austria’s government collapsed Monday
after the junior party in its coalition, the
Freedom Party, elected the far-right
nationalist Joerg Haider as its leader.

Across the Nation — The Senate
confirmed Supreme Court Justice Wil-
liam Rehnquist as the 16th chief justice of
the United: States. Rehnquist received
more negative votes than any other jus-
tice who has been confirmed to the court.
The Senate also unanimously endorsed
President Reagan’s nomination of Anto-

closed 13 more black sehools in Soweto—nin—Scatia—to- filt Rehnquist's vacated

and Johannesburg, saying boycotts had
caused “virtual zero attendance.” A dis-
astrous fire broke out at a South African
gold mine, leaving a record toll-of at least
177 men dead. The U.S. House voted
308-77 to approve a package of economic
sanctions on South Africa, including a

seat.

The Rev. Pat Robertson announced
he will be a contender in the 1988 Presi-
dential election if he gets three million
people to sign petitions urging him to
run. Former Governor of Delaware
Pierre S. duPont also.announced his cans

didacy for the Republican nomination. ___

In a nationally televised address Pres-
ident and Nancy Reagan called Sunday
for a national crusade to create an “out-
spoken intolerance of drug use.” On
Monday President Reagan ordered man-
datory drug tests for hundreds of
thousands of federal workers and called
for the death penalty in some drug-related
murder cases.

Defense Secretary Caspar Wein-
berger said he has given commanders
new authority to prevent service person-
nel from participating in “hate groups”
such as the Ku Klux Klan.

In Business News — The Com-
merce Department reported that the
country’s current account trade deficit hit
a record $34.7 billion during the April-
June quarter. The Eabor Department re-
ported that. wholesale prices rose three

“tenths of a percent in August. The Fed-

eral Reserve reported that domestic: in-
dustrial output rose one-tenth of a percent
in August. People Express agreed to a
merger with Texas Air for $125 million
in securities. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average closed at 1769. 40 points
“Wednesday; down 110.10 points froma
week ago. The Dow index suffered a re-
cord 86.61 point drop Friday. Gold
prices closed at $413.50 an ounce, up
from $404.70 a week ago, while silver
closed at $5.756, up from $5.595 a week
ago. The dollar fell against most curren-
cies during the week.

Watson fellows relive. year of foreign freedom

By AARON LEVINE

Imagine béing given money to
do “your own thing” — a project
of your own for a whole year. Ear-

lier this week, two Davidson
alumnae, Beth Maczka and Ginna
McGee — both of the class of
*85, came. back to talk about their
experience doing just this.

Watson fellowships were the
vehicles enabling them to take a
year “off” after graduation to pur-
sue serious projects of interest at
an international level.

Maczka and McGee gave a
talk and slide presentation in the
90: Room last Monday at 7:30
p-m., under the auspices’ of the
Dean Rusk program,

Beth Maczka used her Watson

to pursue an idea which has held
her interest since a trip to India in
the summer after her junior year,
' where she spent the summer with
the Gandhi Peace Foundation in

Vo aw

India studying the role of women
in Indian society.

During her year in India,
Maczka studied three societies of
women: a communal Hindu as-
hram dedicated to spiritual de-
velopment, an atheist group dedi-
cated to humanist teaching of vil-
lage workers — and helping
them find work, and a Catholic
convent in southern India. She
stayed with these groups for a
while hoping to find in at least one
of them positive development for
Indian women. Unfortunately,
she did not. The ashram spent its

_-days in manual labor and praying..

The group did not really go out
into the world and act, preferring a
‘eoptemplative life. Perhaps the
dshtam/is a/good idea but with ac-
tion what is the use of pious
words?.A few of the younger as-
bram members left for precisely
this reason.
The atheist group failed in that
by training women for self-suffi-

“Let_us be your connection to great usar '

892-9046

‘fight against

ciency through .instruction in
weaving and the like, they merely
added to the burdens of the
women. Women in India already
do 80 percent of the rural and
domestic work. The approach of
weaving for _ self-sufficiency
worked for the group’s spiritual
father Mahatma Gandhi in his
British textiles.
Maczka felt this was an outdated
approach; it might have worked
then, but not now. Women must
be trained in meaningful work.
The only example of positive
development Maczka found for
Indian women was a Catholic-run
health program. The program had
the philosophy that women can

care for their children; it is their

instinct. This program teaching
women the basics of child-caring,
‘nutrition, etc. Eighty percent of
government money for health
goes to hospitals, yet only 5% of
the Indian population goes to hos-
pitals. The Catholics reasoned

hat progress is quicker when it is

at the village level, where it can be ,

grasped. This program reaches
self-sufficiency needs at little ex-

pense: aid is based on local re-

sources and needs. Maczka was

‘optimistic that the lot of the Indian

women will improve.

idea for her Watson: religious pil-
grimages in Mexico, Guatemala,
and Spain. She wanted to figure

out what motivated these people

to make pilgrimages. The idea
came to her on a hiking trip in Ire-
land in the summer after her junior
year.when she fell in with a Catho-
lic pilgrimage which entailed

going up a mountain and perform-..

ing rituals before sacred stones.
In Mexico, she realized her

ideas on pilgrimage were wrong.

She thought the pilgrimage would

be orderly, her questions readily

answered, and photos easily
taken. Mexican pilgrimages were
chaotic; the participants could not

comprehend her questions —
ow can a participant tell why he/
she is doing something when that -
something is as automatic as eat-
ing. The Mexicans were also

‘touchy about their photos being

taken (especially the Indians).

. Later, before going to Spain, she
Ginna McGee had a different :

got a letter from Maczka inviting
Ginna to join her in India, and
both of them finished their Wat-
sons together:

At the end of the talk, Ginna
McGee gave a quote from the au-
thor Anne Dellard: “The point of
going somewhere is not to gee the
most spectacular thing, . . . but
just to see what is there . . . we
are on the planet once and might _
as well get a feel for the —
place...” -

After the talk, a short question’
and answer session was held. The
participants explained that many”
do something else than that which
was originally planned, such as .
McGee did.

Delivaing to Davidson College-
Piza *. Sandwiches + Drinks

Sis

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 pam.

11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.

Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.

