Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

13

Morain’s opinion misguided

Frank Albinder

Thomas Aquinas said: “Because of the diverse condi-
tions of humans, it happens that some acts are virtuous to
some people, as appropriate and suitable to them, while the
same acts are immoral for others, as inappropriate to
them.” In his April 25th opinion article in The Davidso-
nian, Grant Morain uses half-truths, selective scriptual in-
terpretation and faulty logic to support false and misguided
arguments pertaining to the rights of homosexuals and the
very nature of homosexuality itself.

Mr. Morain cited the familiar verses from Leviticus
that have been variously interpreted to prohibit certain
homosexual acts. This citation is not compelling. There are
also verses in Leviticus that prohibit the ingestion of pork
and shellfish. Others mandate offering burnt sacrifices to
the Lord, or require that one live in a hut for seven days dur-
ing the harvest. Unless Mr. Morain intends to follow all of
the laws set forth in Leviticus, perhaps he should consult
the Christian Scriptures and their condemnation of hypoc-
risy. John Boswell, of Yale University, in his award-win-
ning book, Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexu-
ality, explains the Leviticus verse this way: “The Hebrew
word ‘teovah,’ here translated ‘abomination,’ does not
usually signify something intrinsically evil, like rape or
theft, but something which is ritually unclean for Jews, like
eating pork or engaging in intercourse during menstiua-
tion, both of which are prohibited in these same chap-
ters . . . In the Greek (translation), the Levitical enact-
ments against homosexual behavior characterize it un-
equivocally as ceremonially unclean rather than inherently
evil.” Boswell goes on to say that “the assumption that the
creation of humankind through heterosexual union in
Genesis and the subsequent emphasis on marriage through
the Old Testament demonstrates tacit rejection of gay sexu-
ality is insupportable in a modem context, and it does not
seem to have occurred to early Christians . . . In fact in-
tense love relations between persons of the same gender

figure prominently in the Old Testament — e.g. Saul and
David, David and Jonathon, Ruth and Naomi — and were
celebrated throughout the Middle Ages in both ecclestiasti-
cal and popular literature as examples of extraordinary de-
votion, sometimes with distinctly erotic overtones.”
Perhaps Mr. Morain should become more studied in scrip-
tual exegesis before he uses Biblical authority inauthenti-
cally.

Mr. Morain also lumps homosexuals together with van-
dals and rapists, a ludicrous association, and he refers to
laws that prohibit sexual acts between members of the same
sex. It should be noted that these laws prohibit a variety of
sexual acts between men and women as well. Boswell
States that “it would certainly be a mistake to draw conclu-
sions about the position of gay people in most American
cities from the legal strictures theoretically affecting them,
and previous studies of this subject have doubtless erred in
laying too much stress on the existence of restrictive sta-
tutes. Simply noting that something is illegal may be
grossly misleading if one does not also comment on the ex-
tent to which such laws are honored, supported, or gener-
ally approved.” The laws to which Mr. Morain refers are
both unenforceable and irrelevant. They are perhaps as use-
less as laws proscribing public expectoration or requiring
the use of car seat belts. All of these laws attempt to dictate
behavior through statute, when little more than individual
responsibility is required.

Mr. Morain refers to “crimes against nature,” yet who
is to decide what is natural or not? Boswell notes that “his-
torical ethical systems based on ‘nature’ opposed shaving,
growing flowers indoors, dyeing garments, regular bath-
ing, birth control, and scores of other activities performed
daily by the same people who use the term ‘unnatural’ to
justify their antipathy toward gay people. The objection
that homosexuality is ‘unnatural’ appears, in short, to be
neither scientifically nor morally cogent and probably rep-
resents nothing more than a derogatory epithet of unusual
emotional impact due to a confluence of historically
sanctioned prejudices and ill-informed ideas about ‘na-
ture’.”

After an exhaustive study of a variety of sources, Bos-
well concludes that “Roman society did not for the most
part distinguish gay people from others and regarded
homosexual interest and practice as an ordinary part of the
range of human eroticism . . . The early Christian church
does not appear to have opposed homosexual behavior per
se. The most influential Christian literature was moot on
the issue; no prominent writers seem to have considered
homosexual attraction ‘unnatural,’ and those who objected
to physical expression of homosexual feelings generally
did so on the basis of considerations unrelated to the teach-
ings of Jesus or his early followers.”

Throughout history, gay and bisexual men and women
have contributed in countless ways to the society in which
we live. from Socrates to Tchaikovsky, from Plato to
Proust to Gertrude Stein, homosexuals and bisexuals have
been responsible for some of the most notable achieve-
ments in science, literature and the fine arts. To ignore the
fact that homosexuals exist in society, or to limit their
rights is both criminal and unnatural. I fail to see how the
establishment of a support group to serve the needs of the
Davidson gay community will infringe on the rights of the
general populous. Members of the faculty, staff and admin-
istration who support and aid in the formation of such a
group should be applauded for their efforts to show that this
community is not selective and discriminatory in its at-
tempts to be thoughtful, open and caring.

“We can easily reduce our detractors to absurdity and
show them their hostility is groundless, But what does this
prove? That their hatred is real. When every slander has
been rebutted, every misconception cleared up, every false
opinion about us overcome, intolerance itself will remain
finally irrefutable.” Though Moritz Goldstein was com-
menting specifically on German persecution of the Jews,
his words serve as appropriate commentary on the argu-
ments raised by Mr. Morain, and on those that are certain to
be raised in the future.

Albinder is an instructor of music.

Economics majors violate Davidson’s Christian ties

Joe Johnson

It has come to my attention this past week that David-
son College has a “Department of Economics” and that af-
filiated with that department is a group of students desig-
nated “Economics Majors.” The noble reader may well
imagine my shocked indignation and sense of moral out-
rage at the very thought of classrooms filled with bespecta-
cled demons, armed with pocket calculators and rolled-up
Wall Street Journals, totaling up eleven percent interest
rates — compounded semi-annually — to be extracted
from decent, God-fearing debtors. And as if it were not
enough that this group of troubled students is preparing to
plague the world with such sinful debauchery, I am led to
believe that they are assisted in their studies by seven mem-
bers of the Davidson faculty, who regularly organize and
coordinate their efforts so as to ease as much as possible
their students’ transition into the post-graduate world!
Mouth agape with disbelief, thankful that most of my four
years at Davidson have been spent naively and blissfully ig-
norant that our college sponsors the fostering of heathen at-
rocities, I have checked to reassure myself of a sublime
truth that I read but a few days ago.

I find it still nestled warmly at the top of page nine of
The Davidsonian of April 25, and I read once more the fol-
lowing soothing excerpt from the Davidson College “State-
ment of Purpose”: “Since Davidson’s founding the ties
which bind the College to the Presbyterian Church have re-
mained close and strong. It is the desire of all concerned
that this vital relationship be continued in the future, to the
mutual advantage of church and school.” The scholar who
borrowed these words added also that Davidson is ‘‘a col-
lege committed to the historic faith.” Though I breathe a
sigh of relief that I did not misunderstand the quote in my
original reading, I am nonetheless sorely confused: if these
ties remain close and strong, wherefore the encouragement
of usury?

In that vein, Deuteronomy 23:19 reads, “Thou shalt not
lend upon usury to thy brother: usury of money, usury of
victuals, usury of anything that is lent upon usury.”
Aquinas explains that “by this we are given to understand

that to take usury from any man is evil simply because we
ought to treat every man as our neighbor an our brother,
especially in the state of the gospel whereto all are called.”
In addition, the ““Sermon on the Mount” includes the com-
mand, “Lend, looking for nothing againe.” What are these
pearls of morality of not a strong condemnation of usury by
the “historic Christian faith?” Yet I am as a Davidson stu-
dent ashamed to point out the most grotesque irony of this
whole sordid affair, the fact that the Office of the Chaplain
is openly willing to try to help meet the spiritual needs of
these future Shylocks.

No doubt the aspiring gold-diggers and dreamy-eyed
bleeding hearts of this campus will join forces to declare,
“Davidson faculty are not helping usurers rape their fellow
man; they are merely helping students learn economic prin-
ciples.” True, the Bible does not prohibit learning
economic principles like it prohibits raping one’s fellow
man (as far as I know), but one follows from the other.

I think it is important to point out that there are some at
Davidson who are not True Christians and may therefore
lack reason to believe that usury is a sin. There is, after all,
more than one religion . . . Perhaps the Opinions page
will deal with their ilk next week. For now, however, suf-
fice it to say that these economics faculty and these
economics majors are first and foremost employees of and
students at Davidson College and that the “primary loyalty
of the College extends . . . to the Christian Community as
a whole, through which medium it would seek to serve the
world.” Surely the promotion of the sin of usury is not their
idea of service through the Christian medium!

It turns out that I live with an economics major in my
perimeter house, and recent conversations with him have
made me more aware of the probability that economics
majors are people, just like you and me, who are fraught
with worries. I have no doubt that the economics majors at
Davidson need or want support in the form of an economics
department; however, I question the appropriateness of the
college’s involvement in such an organization. Its exis-
tence has certainly failed to reduce the number of usurers in
the world. Forthermore, the appeal of usury is spreading
like a malignant tumor: even now many non-majors take
enonomics courses at Davidson. Where will it all end?
Should we look for our administrators to next form a De-

partment of Adultery or a Department of the Taking of the
Name of the Lord Thy God in Vain?

Those most deserving of scorn and opprobrium are
surely the faculty that turn out sinners on this college-spon-
sored assmebly line. What do the y pe“ceive as being their
roles as members of the Department of Economics? If they
condone usury, and it appears they do, T humbly submit
that they should re-evaluate their positions at Davidson.
There are people here at Davidson with real need for sup-
port, people who feel utterly alone in the college communi-
ty, and these people are more deserving of our Christian
Support and limited resources than this band of white-collar
conspirators.

A final note: some would claim that we are not in fact in
Aquinas's “state of the gospel whereto all are called,” that
we are in the state of North Carolina whereto some are tem-
porarily drawn, and that usury is a fact of life here in the Tar
Heel State. I say. “Get thee behind me, Heathen!” North
Carolina laws prohibit “crimes against nature” and
categorize them as class H felonies, and none but the fool
whould deny that nothing is more natural than to prefer not
to pay interest on a debt.

I have heard economics majors say that “Davidson is
the worst place on Earth to take eco comps.” To the majors
who feel that way, I suggest you find a school without ties
to the church in a state without laws prohibiting such activ-
ity. In the meantime look for your jobs clsewhere, far from
the soul-eating crime of usury. As the Geneva Bible directs
you, lend, “not only not hoping for profite, but to lose ye
stqcke, and principall, for as much as Christ bindeth him
selfe to repaie the whole with a most liberall interest.” Let's
join together as a Christian community to produce David-
son graduates who will lose their stocke, and principall, in
the name of God, even if we have to be rough as Hell on
them to do it.

Johnson is a senior philosophy major from Smithfield, NC
