News Shorts

Town Day held last Saturday

On May 3 the town of Davidson and Davidson College sponsored their an-
nual Town Day. According to Vicki Rogers, community liaison for the YSSC,
the Y worked with Pat Johnson, the Director of the Community Center in or-
ganizing the event. Rogers emphasized that there was no budget set aside for
Town Day; funds came from both town and college donations. The activities
were primarily for community children and included a bike parade, “fishing”
booth, face painting, water gun and candles, and sponge toss. There was free ice
cream for everyone. A bluegrass band composed of junior Jay Wilkins, and

Friday, May 9, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Seniors donate class gift in memory of Tim Wen

freshmen Molly Cochran, Valerie Graves and Liza Paschale performed to an en-

thusiastic audience.

Rogers was impressed by the amount of support from Patterson Court, par-
ticularly since it was Beach Weekend. Churches, stores, senior citizens, volun-

teers, and community leaders from the town worked in conjunction with the stu-

dents. Rogers says the YSSC is pleased with this year’s turnout, the largest in

several years and adds that while both the campus and community wish Town
Day to remain a small community affair she hopes that next year will bring even

more student involvement.

Material contributed by Laura Ballenger

Seniors reminded to fill out cards

and fill one out before May 14.

Material contributed by Hunter Roddey

The Senior Class Gift Executive Committee changed the Summer Abroad
Scholarship’s official name to the Class of 1986 Summer Abroad Scholarship in
Memory of Tim Wen. The composition of the scholarship itself was not altered.

Not only the seniors contribute to the gift, but now the faculty will also have
the opportunity to contribute if they wish. The seniors and the faculty wish to
honor and remember Wen in this way.

So far, 65% of the senior class has donated to the gift, but not all pledge cards
have been received. About 70 pledge cards are still outstanding.

The Alumni Office reminds seniors to fill out information cards if they did
not do so at the Senior Banquet. Come by the Alumni Office, Chambers 120,

New vice president for academic affairs named

By ANDREA GROSS

Robert C. Williams, dean of
University College at Washington
University in St. Louis, has been
named vice president _for
academic affairs and dean of fac-
ulty at Davidson. President
Kuykendall announced the ap-
pointment Friday, May 2. Wil-

liams, a former Pulitzer Prize
nominee, will assume the post ef-
fective August |.

Williams replaces T.C. Price
Zimmermann, who held the posi-
tion for nine years. After a sabbat-
ical year, Zimmermann will re-
turn to Davidson and assume the
position of Charles A. Dana Pro-

fessor of History.

“Bob Williams is a worthy
successor to this vital position in
the life of the college,” Kuyken-
dall said. “He has the background,
temperament and energy to do an
outstanding job.”

Williams has been dean of
University College since 198!.
His service there included the di-
rectorship of the evening college
for part-time adult students, and
co-directorship of Washington's
Program in Technology and the
Liberal Arts, sponsored by the
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. He is
also a professor of history,
specializing in Russian and Soviet

history.

“Coming to Davidson is a re-
affirmation of faith in the liberal
arts,” Williams said. “I’m tre-
mendously excited about the pos-
sibility of coming. The task is
going to be building on the past,
building on Davidson's Presbyte-
rian Southern traditions, and
reaching for national recogntion
as one of America’s top liberal
arts colleges.”

Harvard University Press
nominated Williams for the
Pulitzer Prize in 1981 for his book
Russian Art and = American

Money: 1900-1940. In addition to
his position of associate professor
and professor of history at
Washington he served previously
as a lecturer and assistant profes-
sor at Williams College. He holds
a doctorate in history and a mas-
ter’s degree in Russian studies
from Harvard and a bachelor’s de-
gree in mathematics and physics
from Wesleyan University.

The author of several books on
Russian history, art history, and
the history of nuclear energy, Wil-
liams will have two new books
published during the upcoming
academic year: The Other Bol-

Morris outlines athletic departments future

By MIKE HOBBS

On Tuesday in the Big Screen
Room, Davidson Athletic Direc-
tor Christopher Morris talked
about the future of Davidson's
athletic program.

Morris explained that when he
came to Davidson 16 months ago
he formulated a list of objectives
for the athletic program. Giving
equal weight to each point they
were: |) Find an appropriate
league for the football team, and
support the team so that they
would be competitive in that
league. 2) Find a suitable confer-
ence for men’s basketball and
Davidson's other varsity sports.
3) Place women’s sports in a
league and give them adequate
support so that they too would be
competitive. 4) Build the new
sports complex. 5) Create ‘a defi-
nite administrative structure in the
Athletic Department. 6) Create a
consensus among campus groups
that Davidson athletics was in line
with the institutional objectives of
the school.

During his brief tenure Morris
has achieved his first goal, foot-
ball having found a home in the
Colonial League. While the team
will be eligible for the Southern
Conference championship next

year, the primary scheduling em-
phasis will be placed on Colonial
League opponents. The league is
composed of schools with profiles
similar to Davidson’s — small,
academically recognized liberal
arts colleges, with a firm commit-
ment to the scholar-athlete.

The switch from the Southern
Conference was prompted by a
realization that Davidson football
would not ever be able to compete
with schools that offer athletic
scholarships. This feeling is sub-
stantiated by Davidson's record in
the conference over the last fifty
years, where they have won only
26 percent of their games.

If Davidson were to offer
enough scholarships to make a
difference in the program, Morris
estimates that it would cost the
school nearly $500,000, which
does not include the cost of an
equal number of NCAA-required
scholarships for women. Just on
the basis of cost of tuition, a
school like Western Carolina can
offer three scholarships for the
same price of one by Davidson.

Morris explained, “I would
rather spend the money where we
are on an equal footing with those
schools. Coaches, equipment, re-
cruiting, and travel cost the same

for all of us and would provide
greater results per dollar spent.”
The future of the other men’s
varstiy programs is not as definite.
The Cats will remain in the South-
erm Conference for the next year
and be eligible for Southern Con-
ference titles, but after that the
picture will remain blurry until a
conference task force on the
Davidson question finishes its re-
port late this summer. Morris be-
lieves that the task force is sym-
pathetic to our cause, since it is
composed primarily of members
who have supported Davidson in
the past. If the group does vote to
exclude Davidson from the South-
em Conference, then the Wildcats
will seek affiliation with another
conference, most likely the Colo-
nial Athletic Association. Morris
asserts that Davidson would defi-
nitely join another conference as
soon as possible, but he is leaving
all options open and is hopeful
that no change will be necessary.
Next year all of Davidson’s
women’s varsity teams will com-
pete in Division I, which was a
change mandated by the NCAA.
Teams will be fielded in cross-
country, field hockey, indoor
track, outdoor track, and tennis
along with the new addition of

volleyball and golf. The NCAA
requires that a school offer a prop-
ortional number of men and
women’s teams, and that these
teams compete in the same divi-
sion. Until this year Davidson’s
men’s program was allowed to re-
main in Division I, while the
women’s teams were free to com-
pete in the Division II]. Morris
pledged the support and resources
of the entire athletic department to
help ease the transition process
and make the teams competitive

sheviks: Lenin and his Critics by
Indiana University Press, and
Klaus Fuchs and Atomic Espion-
age, 1930-1950 by Harvard Uni-
versity Press.

Williams is married and has
three children. His wife, Ann
Kingman Williams, is a Mt
Holyoke graduate, biologist, and
medical research technician. His
son Peter, 21, is a May graduate of
Kenyon College, his daughter
Margaret, 19, is a sophomore at
Wittenberg University, and his
daughter Katharine, 6, will be a
second grader at Davidson
Elementary School.

on the new level.

Davidson is the smallest
school to compete on the Division
I level, and Morris is aware of the
difficulties that this presents.
When questioned whether this de-
cision was wise Morris replied.
“Ambitious, yes. In-
sane, . . . ask me in five years.”
Yet he points to the success of the
soccer, basketball, tennis, and
baseball teams as proof that we
can not only compete, but excel in
football and women’s sports.

Spend the Summer and/or the
School Year in Sunny Spain.

Quality Instruction at Economy Prices:
Business Administration, Hispanic
Studies, Arts and Sciences.
HISPANIC STUDIES GRADUATE
COURSES offered in July.
Contact: Admissions, St. Louis
University, 221 N. Grand Blvd. ,
St. Louis, Mo. 63103. Toll- free tel.:

(800) 325-6666.

