10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor

Brooke Knight, Executive Editor

Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Slick and Suave

What is the purpose of our beloved WDAV, “your radio for the arts”
89.9 FM? The WDAV Board of Directors decided in the spring of 1977
that WDAV was:

1. To provide an educational and cultural service to the surrounding

area by providing classical music and other programming that is not
available on commercial stations.

2. To present Davidson College as an institution of high academic
quality in a context of commitment to the highest values.

This is all good and well. However, we ask “To what sacrifice the
student?” Should WDAV cater to pin-striped, three-piece-suited
businessmen and to homemakers in the pre-soap morning? The station’s
present policies seem to do just that. Where is the “student” in this “col-
lege” radio station?

In a July 1978 letter to then-president Samuel Spencer, psychology
professor Edward Palmer expressed his sentiments about WDAV:

. .over the past several years I have seen students translate a radio sta-

tion concept into a radio station reality — doing so, in the initial stages,
with “chewing gum, bailing wire,” and their own brute strength. They
had little to work with and the miracle is that they made it work.
He goes on to say that, realistically speaking, the radio station must have
a consistent format, and the then-current student staff was providing no
such thing. His letter was one of purely personal opinion with no official
weight. However, he very effectively summed up past student contrib-
utions to the station.

WDAYV is now projected by the college to be a classy, slick station
with a haughty attitude that might be expressed as: “Our students are cul-
tured and well-groomed, and they enjoy having the station run by profes-
sionals to make the college look good.”

Can we infer that if the students ran the operation that the college
would look bad to the outside world? Granted, chances are that it would
not be as slick, but the radio station does have a stated commitment to
students. In the above-mentioned Board of Directors meeting, the third
WDAV policy was:

To provide Davidson students the opportunity to enrich their educa-
tional experiences through professional-quality participation in a public
communications medium.

The extent to which this happens is up to the college administration and
ultimately up to the trustees.

Some believe, though, that WDAV has become too big and powerful
for students to run. If the college’s intention in keeping an iron-clad grip
on the station was to use it as a public relations tool, then it is fooling it-
self. People are more impressed by a good and solid student-backed pro-
ject than by a guilded and suave trustee-backed production.

Some believe that if the station becomes less professionally oriented,
then its quality will dimimish. This is not necessarily true; Towson State
University’s (Maryland) radio station is almost totally student run, and is
the number one station in Baltimore very frequently. It broadcasts classi-
cal, jazz, and alternative music shows (these three types of shows share
air time equally).

The Powers That Be at WDAV decided to tuck the shows which in-
terest mostly students (flipsides and jazz sides) in between 11 p.m. and 1
a.m., when most students are studying, sleeping, or at parties. We are
not saying that no students listen to classical music, just that many are in-
terested in the other two types of music which WDAV offers.

It is true that the station does have a modicum of student involve-
ment, but many who have tried to offer their services and share their in-
terest in this “student-run” radio have turned away disgruntled with the
system.

It would be difficult for WDAV to steer a totally new course, but al-
lowing more student responsibility in an organization once largely con-
trolled by them is not impossible: It is necessary if the station is going to
continue its claim that it comes from the college, because the college is
here for the students.

Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

. . : rey
NESTLED AMONG ThE KOLLING WiLLS OVERLOOKING ThE van
TAR WAN or CoviNGTon CountRY CLUB The LSDAY CLUB HOUSE

PROVIDES CULTURAL DIVERSION FER MUSIC LOVERS

ESPEGAUN CHARLOTTE,
(STUBEAT POURS: W0ORM- LODAM

EVERYUORERE -

TTT

Letters

Computer
Philosophy

To the Editor:

Ordinarily philosophy seminars are in-
tended for philosophy majors, but spring
term Ill be leading a seminar that is differ-
ent. There are no formal prerequisites. It
will meet Monday, Wednesday and Friday
at 3 p.m., and the subject will be artificial
intelligence. I expect it to be challenging
but profitable for students with varied back-
rounds. I would urge students with some
expertise in computer science, philosophy
or psychology in particular to consider this
course.

Half the course will be spent studying
the techniques actually used by computer
scientists in designing intelligent machines,
using a text by artificial intelligence re-
searcher Elaine Rich. We’ll be discussing
seminal articles by computer scientists, phi-

losophers and psychologists, and there will
be guest lecturers from each of these fields.
The philosopher John Haugeland will visit
at the end of the seminar to discuss his new
book on artificial intelligence. Ken Chen, a
specialist in AI from UNCC, will come and
explain his work in computer knowledge
representation.

This course is not for everyone. No one
will have the background to handle every-
thing we are going to do in the course, so
students must be willing to get in over their
heads and pick things up as they go along. |
am looking for students with different back-
grounds to bring different insights to the
seminar. Grading will be based upon this
contribution and on a term project which
could take many forms, as long as it attacks
in some way the main problem of the semi-
nar, the design of an intelligent machine.

J encourage those who want to be on the
cutting edge of scientific research to come
and see me about this course. Michael P.
Smith Assistant professor of Philosophy,
room 05a Chambers, ext. 291.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian “Opin-
ions” section is the only forum
on campus for extended com-
mentary on pertinent issues. We
will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest

we receive from the campus
community.

We these
guidelines:

1) We require that all arti-
cles be in our hands at 7 p.m.
Monday.

2) We accept typed articles
and those written legibly, dou-
ble-spaced.

3) We require that opinions
be signed. We will print un-

adhere to

signed articles only if compel-
ling reason exists for withhold-
ing the author's name, and the
author is known to either the
editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions
for style or content but we re-
serve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will in-
form the author of substantial
changes.

5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve
the right to select artilces from
those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print
any article we withhold from
publication the next week.

