2

-News: Summary-

Arms race specialist to speak at Davidson

A specialist in nuclear arms issues speaks about what he calls the
addiction of the United States and the Soviet Union to nuclear
weapons.

Tom Halsted, a columnist, lecturer and consultant, was a senior
official at the federal Arms Control and Disarmament Agency from
1977 to 1981. As the agency’s director of public affairs, Halsted
was the principal U.S. government official responsible for educat-
ing the public about SALT IT. Halsted has also served as chief exec-
utive officer for the Council for a Livable World, the Arms Control
Association and Physicians for Social Responsibility.

Halsted argues that in the pursuit of security through a continu-
ing arms buildup, the United States and the Soviet Union have be-
come as addicted to the nuclear arms race as an alcoholic to drink,
with comparable destructive effects on national health, economy
and well-being.

Halsted will appear with Norris Fredrick °70, executive director
of North Carolina SANE, in an open forum about results of the
U.S.-Soviet summit meeting at 4 p.m. Tuesday in the Morrison
Room. Frederick is a lecturer in philosophy at the University of
North Carolina at Charlotte. Fredrick met with Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev and the Rev. Jesse Jackson during the summit.

Halsted will also speak at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the 900 Room.

Alumnus to perform in vesper concert

Baritone Roger Saylor °75 will perform in this season's fifth
vesper concert Thursday. He will be accompanied on piano by
music professor Joel Harrison.

The program includes Robert Schumann's “Dichterliebe,”
Hugo Wolf's “Three Moricke Songs,” Samuel Barber’s “Three
James Joyce Songs” and three arrangements by Benjamin Britten:
“Salley Gardens,” “How Sweet the Answer” and “Foggy Foggy
Dew.”

After graduating from Davidson, Saylor received a master’s de-
gree from the University of Southern California. He later studied at
the Britten-Peers School in London for two years, where he worked
with Sir Peter Peers. Saylor won the National Arts and Letters Com-
petition in 1981.

The concert is scheduled for 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Currie to retire

By KEITH FINCH

Robert Currie, college busi-
ness manager for the past twenty-
eight years, will retire from his
post some time this month. _

In talking of his leaving, Cur-
nie said: “It’s something of a wind-
ing-down process, because I'll be
taking part in the transition proce-
dure. I have to complete some un-
finished matters involving college
properties, so I'll continue to
work in a limited capacity for a
while.” He mentioned that he
would continue to work full-time
for about two more weeks, and
then “gradually taper off.”

Curne’s retirement _—sihas
prompted considerations of pros-
pects for change. In a Nov. 15 let-
ter to the faculty and staff, Presi-
dent Kuykendall wrote, “I have
reached the conclusion after con-
siderable consultation that it will

be best for us to restructure the ad-
ministration of the college in the
area of business and finance by the
appointment of an officer with the
title of vice president, to whom
the several aspects of the college
in that area will report.”

Currie commented on the de-
cision to create a vice-presidential
position, “It’s the way most other
schools are organized — to have
one principal business officer.”

He said he intends to remain in
Davidson after his retirement. “In
the recent election I was elected to
be Town Commissioner, and I
look forward to working with the
Town Council. My wife and |

hope to do a little travelling, more
in the region than to any place
exotic. Next fall we might take in
New, England and some areas in
North Carolina and the neighbor-
ing states we haven’t seen.

Friday, January 10,

1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Being a part of Davidson in
these years has been a privilege —
I’ve seen expansions in the size of
enrollment, property holdings and
many other changes, including
coeducation.” He said: “But
there’s the same school spirit
here. the oollege and the commu-
nity remain unique. By and large |
feel that these have been good
years. I’m glad to be continuing in
the community, and I feel that the
future of the college is very
bright.”

Currie also said that he intends
to pursue activities like garden-
ing, housework, and fishing. He
emphasized one pursuit in particu-
lar, “I'll work on my golf swing
— it needs it.”

He added, “I will continue to
look forward to reading The
Davidsonian.”

Robert Currie, college business manager for 28 years, looks forward to his retirement.

1iqseN UseqoYy

Brevard, N.C.

od

Jan. 13

‘Union Lobby

Nath. Thompson
Camp Director

SUMMER JOB
OPPORTUNITIES

Camp Carolina For Boys

Interviews on Monday,

11 a.m. —4 p.m.

a

the har

After you're done with
school face one of
t lessons in life:

Wi ithout experience,
it's tough to get a job. And
without a job, it's tough to

tw Xe L sma mn wl

“Wr Penmr tame cat mony

e there is
stitute for

Call 800-257-1200 ext. 806 —
or mail the coupon — and start your
,, Subscription to The Wall Street
at student savings of up
to S44 off the regular subscrip
ton price.

experienc
oars Wall Street Esp pretty generous > otte r
Journal, we recognize that expe what it actually represents
nence is something don't Tuition for the real world.
start earning until after graduation. |
But while you're waiting, we can — — _
give you a Start by providing subscril 800 +257 +1 00.
some of the same titive fo erie call 80 free. 0 |
advantages that expenence brings. Or mail to EXE OME ral. 200 Burnett Ru |
For instance, our wide-ranging E | Chicopee MAURO MY Bares Raa
news coverage gives you a clearer ~ atone 30d cf Se ete sae tourna for $63 - 4
standing oft of the whole complex Saat er C Payment enclosed |
Our tightly focused feature re- | Sere ————_______ |
speci ambi wha for your more i | Student DO # Grad Month Year |
‘ Address __ _
management, accounting, finance > i | ov State Zy
technology, marketing or smal | Seas “Mayor _ ° _ |
aaron
And our in-depth analysis helps 73 7 ee ae
you formulate your ideas in a | The Wall Street Journal. |
. and more persuasive way. L_ a Rn dr ruses]

J FRHO eet BOR CIES Doe fores & Comoars Inc

