2

Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ News Shorts

Winterguard group forms S

Recently four Davidson students have organized an effort to form a winter-
guard at Davidson. The founders,.Carl Whipple, Tom Whipple, David Alyea,
and Greta Ratliff, all of whom have drum and bugle corps or winterguard experi-
ence, are enthusiastic about the task they’ ve undertaken.

A winterguard is an indoor flag and rifle corps who perform at competitions
on the Winterguard International Circuit and at basketball games. There are usu-
ally twenty members in the corps, yet the organizers, realizing Davidson has a
small student body, are hoping to fill twelve spots on this year’s first corps. The
ten minute pérformance consists of precise and disciplined flag and rifle work
combined with lively dance and music. 7

There will be an organizational meeting on Monday, Sept. 29, 1986, at 8:30
p.m. in the Big Screen Room. All those interested are encouraged to attend and
anyone who cannot be present is asked to contact Tom at 892-7751 or David at
892-6191. Afterwords, highlights of the’ Drum Corps International World
Championships broadcast on PBS at 9:00 will be shown in the Big Screen
Room. Both Carl and David participated in this finale to,a summer-long tour of
the United States with the Sky Riders who finished ninth out of 36 corps.

edge.” If he seems.cocky, then at least his attitude is well-founded. Williams, a.
cadet in Davidson’s Army ROTC program distinguished himself by winning the
General Joe Barr Regimental Fitness Award during his six weeks of ROTC Ad-
vanced Camp this past summer. The award recognizes the cadet with the best
performance on the Army Physical Readiness Test. Williams competed with
over 500 cadets in three events: pushups, situps, and two-mile run. The first two
events measure the amount of pushups and situps a cadet can complete within
two ‘minutes. Grading is very rigorous; no credit is given for pushups or situps
that do not meet the exacting standards of the graders. Williams pumped out 88
pushups and 87 situps, and then went on to give an equally scorching perfor-
mance in the two-mile. run, finishing in 10:50. Each event contributed to give
him the highest overall score in the regiment. When asked to comment on how
he had prepared for the competition, Williams explained that he had always been
in good physical condition, and had simply followed a regular regimen consist-
ing of three sets of 70 pushups, 200 situps, and a five-mile run. Nothing to it,
right? Williams added that the imporatnce of whatever exercise one does is not
so much what kind or how much, but rather how often. With this knowledge in
mind, Williams conipelled himself to work out at least every other day. Wii-

Material contributed by Pete Mangone

Williams wins fitness award

“Being physically fit gives me the edge.” With a wry smile and a miscievous
wink,.Dean Williams catches himself and adds, “ . .

Careers Office offers
wide variety of services — .

By LUCIA KENDALL

A. new computer system, a
graduate school day and a job op-
tions bazaar are projects the Care-
ers Office will undertake during

-the fall term.

“Discover” is a new computer
career development system. Its
functions include asking a student
questions on his or her interests,
abilities and level of experjence
and then suggesting possible
fields; helping to select graduate
schools based on a variety of
criteria; and providing basic infor-
mation on graduate schools (size,
area of the country, entrance re-
quirements, costs, etc.).

Students may make appoint-
ments for hour segments .on the
computer from approximately.
8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., although the
Career Center will be able. to
accomodate students who need to

come in on weekends or evenings. -

Continued from page I

jects. Drama professor and Ses-
quicentennial Coordiniator Rupert
Barber and Assistant Coordinator
Jean Jackson will plan celebratory
activities for the college, town and
Davidson College Presbyterian
Church, each of which observes
its sesquicentennial in 1987. The
front two rooms of Copeland
House will be used as temporary
offices for Barber and Jackson and.
as a Visitor Center of sesquicen-
““tennial rotating displays; in 1988,
these rooms will become addi-

tional College Relations offices,

with possible continuation of a re-
ception area for college visitors,
Barber said.

Thirty-five graduate schools
will be in Chambers Gallery Oct.
2 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. to distri-
bute information to students.

On Oct. 1 there will be sem-
iars on how to choose a graduate
school and how to finance a
graduate education.

A Job Options Bazaar will be
held Oct.. 16 for those who are in-
terested in entering the job market
after grduation. Thirty-two re-

cruiters will be present to make .

students more familiar with their
companies and to identify stu-
dents as possible employees.

Ken Wood, director of the
Careers Office, encourages stu-
dents to take this event seriously

.and recognizes that it is an excel-_

lent opportunity not only to collect
information, but also to establish
early contact with employers.
“You really have to market your-

. self,” he said. “Make sure that the

a

Currently owned by the Cope-
land family and on long term lease
to the College, the building served
as. a student boarding house in the
1880s. “The house; a part of
which is probably ante-bellum,
was bought and enlarged by Dr.
William Holt [a local’ physician
who practiced in what is now the
side yard] by the 1870s,” Assis-
tant Director of the Library Mary
Beaty said.

The faculty offices replacing
these administrative - offices in
Chambers include.space for mem-
bers of the psychdlogy, sociology
and anthropology, and education
_-Separtments.

ot

. and gives anyone the

liams learned early on that there are more benefits to physical fitness than simply
physical capability. dean holds that fitness is a great confidence booster and that

“physical and mental endurance are somehow intertwined, and combine to
Create a more capable officer.”

Williams states that another valuable derivative has been the discipline that,
achieving and sustaining. physical fitness demands. By forcing hirnself to get out
and exercise on days when he just didn’t want to do it, Dean developed a discip-
line, that he claims has permeated other aspects of his life, such as academics.
Williams strongly urges anyone who desires confidence and discipline to get
into the habit of rigorous physical exercise. Dean Williams is a senior English
major and commander of the ROCS (Ranger Oriented Cadets).

recruiters leave knowing your
namé, face, and credentials. Also,’
it’s important to realize that em-
ployers are looking for people
with a variety of majors and that
they look at more than GPA’s.
There-are a lot of ways for special
people to draw attention to their |
skills and abilities.”

Wood also wishes: to em-
phasize that although banks and
insurance companies are more
often represented in programs like
the Job Options Bazaar, the Care-
er Center also concentrates on cul-
tural ‘and human services that
don’t recruit at Colleges as often.

- Students are invited to stop by
the resource room anytime to look
at the catalogs, directories, and
other information on careers,
graduate schools, international
jobs, and summer internships,

said Wood. Freshman Regatta fun

Classes began meeting- last
Wednesday in the new first floor
classroom and seminar toom. The
conversion of a second floor class-
room into three offices centralizes
Ahe philosophy department, Kel-
ton said. ;

“We will continue working

this fall to complete planning now.

underway,” Kelton said. of the
Space, Committee. “We will
create a new [Ray and Mary Oce-
land} language center in the south
basement near the computer ter-
minal rooms and the Xerox area.

Personnel will move from that

area — that will create’ more

classroom and office space| on the

third floor.” Kelton said plans call
for completion of the proposed
language center by the beginning
of the 1987-88 academic year.

Other suggested changes in-
clude moving the Office of In-
stitutional Advancement from
Chambers within two, years. Ac-
cording ‘to Meetze, “We hope to
move other administrative offices
out of Chambers:

“We aren't just going to pick
up and move everyone,” he said,
mentioning the president’s and
dean of students’ offices.as exam-
ples of offices expected to remain
in Chambers.

“I would hope new dor-
mitories would replace the
perimeter housing as soon as pos-
sible,” Meetze said. “We have a
goal of providing additional dor-
mitory space tb alleviate the
perimeter housing problem. There -
are problems associated with
perimeter houses of maintenance,
utility expense, and location.”

Kuykendall n noted, “We reco-
vered McConnell House at hotoss
of total beds on campus. I would
want those who covet the opportu-__”
nity to live in a perimeter house
not to be.overly upset.”

a
