>

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, &diiors
John Gathings, East: Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Susiness Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Fratures Editor Lee Bichelberger, tnside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports.Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Phorograpty Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Cfreulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

6 Os,

Sports debacle

Unfortunately for the alumni returning to last weekend’s Homecom-

ing festivities, the Tootball team lost another one-sided game, this week ,
‘51-14. We hope some of the trustees had a chance to see the game and
witness the future of Davidson football.

The team that whipped the Wildcats last weekend was Lafayette, a
member of the Colonial League. If you have been following the Colonial
League issue, you will remember Davidson has ended its 50-year associ-
ation with the Southern Conference to allow the football team to play “in
a more competitive conference,”

The Homecoming loss should show the trustees that the problem
with Davidson football lies not in playing in too demanding a confer-
epee, but in a program recovering from several disatrous recruiting years
by former coach Ed Farrell. Until Vie Gatto is given a few years to recruit
good players Davidson will lose in whatever conference they choose to
play. .

The move to the Colonial League is not the panacea the trustees and
athletic director Kit Morris seem to want so desperately for the football
program, but it is poison to Davidson's remaining, and by-and-lasge suc-
cessful, teams. With no conference indicating a desire to erobrace the
marooned teams, the highly undesirable status of independent seems to
be in Davidson's future. " 4

As an independent, Davidson has no chance at an automatic NCAA

/vid in basketball and no conference championships, always an inspira-
tional goal for any team. .

Some would argue Davidson wijl eventually find a new conference
and others say weaker competition will give a welcomed boost to David-
son’s sagging winning percentage in such sports as tennis, soccer, field
hockey and cross country.

For the former, even if Davidson finds a new conference in the next
three years, why sacrifice a long history of fruitful Southern Conference
rivalries so the footbal] team can have, at best, a .500 record? Why risk
being trapped for any amount of time as an independent for such a small
return?

As for Davidson beating up on a weaker conference such as the Big
South, a few years of conference titles might occur; yet moving to con-
ference that included Winthrop and Radford instead of Marshall and Ap-
palachian State would suffocate recruiting ‘fn basketball, soccer and
baseball. Would athletes such as Derek Rucker, Steve Ott and Bill Masse
have come to Davidson if it played in the Big South and had no NCAA
bid to play for? No way. Davidson's competition would drop in stature,
but so would Davidson's talent.

In our view the decision to enter the Colonial League at the cost of
leaving the Southern Conference ranks as the most short-sighted deci-
sion in the history of Davidson athletics.

Happy Homecoming Trustees.

The Davidsonien is published-Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson Coflege. Addrass correspondence to: The Davideonian,
Box 218, Davideon, MC 28038, Phone (704) 882-2088, ext. 146 and 148. OF-:
fices. tocated on the top floor of the Groy Student Union. Opinions ex-
prassed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily rafloct
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonien. Subscriptions cost $15
per yeer, ar 625 per yeor for first class poctel rates. Advertising rates avail-
ablo on request, Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson Collage.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedsich, Jeff Lesesne, Auron Levine, Laura
Gabel.

Featuses Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, Lee Kichelbergec, Scot Goodwith, Chris Hare
grove, Steve Munk.

Sports Staff: Eel! Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Par Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Suyan Wil
hans

Photography Staff, Alex Huyden, Linda Highie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yam. |
‘Staff Artista Rechord Cloudt, Mike Setill. tr
Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crahtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall,
Pele Mangone, Tom Moore, Kim Robertawn, Ibby Sowell. Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wil- '
kins, Bea Yarbrough.
Circulation Staff: Lucia. Kcodalt.

— Friday, October 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

pew
at
ne
gk?
|,
—_—
joe
—
= a
__ : ———
WOULD You Guys LigGnré~ ad
— Someries Some EA ae
«a Fale FRI The TARE... SS

Be Og:

THE PAVIDSEMian., ‘

—_Letters

To the Bditors:
In a recent letter published in the Char-

- lotte Observer, Caryn Coppedge described

the results of “the Davidson College mock
9th District congressional election.” Ac-
cording to her account, “Davidson students
‘voted’ 60.5 percent to 39.5 percent to
reelect Rep. Alex McMillan over his
Democratic challenger and Davidson alum-
nus D.G. Martin.”

Caryn’s letter implies that most David-
son Students participated in the election.
Yet, many students that we talked with did
not find out about the election until after the
“polls” had closed. Mock elections usually
have a limited number of participants ang
are not a statistically valid measure of a
group's opinions. Consequently, the
Davidson referendum could not have accu-
rately reflected the political preferences of

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
its readers. We try to print all letters of
general interest. but we will adhere to the
following guidelines: ‘
-The letters most be submitted by 7
p.m. the Tuesday before expected publi-
cation date.,
+ +The letters must be neatly typed.
‘The letters should be signed. You
| must have a compelling reason it you do
Hot want yobr name printed with the let-
ter.

‘We reserve the right not (o print Jet-
fers which are adverlisements, contain
inside jokes or off-color sturs, or repre-

sent a Viewpoint Very sinnlar to other let
ters printed cm the game topic.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” see-
tion is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent issues,
We will print opinions an any subject of

Policies

the entire student body.

In addition, the College Republicans
sponsored the Oct. | election. This partisan
affiliation may have discouraged some stu-
dents from participating in what may have
seemed a biased clection, .

We wonder how many Davidson stu-
dents are familiar with the two candidates
and their issue positions. Much of the stu-
dent body lives outside North Carolina, and
the overwhelming majority reside outside
the 9th congressional district. As a result,
many Davidson students will not have the
opportunity to vote for either candidate on-
Nov, 4, .

We applaud Caryn's efforts to stimulate
political interest'on the Davidson campus.
We ask, however, that she and all political
participants refrain from making broad
generalizations that Jack factual support.
North Carolinians have already endured
enough political inaccuracy and distortion.

Patrick Sellers *86
Stephen Bryant, ’89

genczal interest we reteive from the cam-
pus community. We adhere to the follow-
ing guidelines;

“Any opinion should be in to us by 7
p-m. the Monday before publication, un-
less iLis typed an IBM 5,25” diskette, in
which case it is due 5 p.m. Tywesday,

‘We avcept typed and legibly-written
articles only.

‘Opinions should be signed. We will
only print unsigned ones if there is a cam-
pelling reason and the author 1s knowre to
ws (the editors),

‘We will not edit opinions for content
or style, but for common Engligh usage
Galy. We will inform the agthor of sub-
stantial changes,

‘Because of limited space, some-
times We are not able ta print all opnions
submitted in one iseue. We reserve the
tight to select articles from those we re-
ceive for publication. We will uitempt to
pat any withheld article the fottowing
week. _

