Friday, April 4, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

U.S. actions in Nicaragua necessary

David Host

Cnitics of the Reagan Administration's Central Ameri-
can policies express fears of “another Vietnam.” They
argue that American interference in the region, especially
the support of Nicaraguan “‘contras,” will lead to another

escalation into war. The Reagan policies, in their full im-
plementation, will lead away from American commitment
of forces, however. A negligence of expanding communist
influence in the region will result in the necessity of Ameri-
can forces.

White House staff member Patrick Buchanan has de-
clined the Administration’s policies as ‘a dose of preven-
tion.” As distasteful as they might seem, administration ac-

tions, such as the support of the contras and the 1984 min-
ing of Nicaraguan harbors have provided effective preven-
tion of the extension of communist influence. Immediately
following the mining incident, the Salvadoran rebels, who
had vowed never to negotiate with the Duarte government,

suddenly requested a dialogue. The pipeline of Nicaraguan
aid to the rebels, which originated in the Soviet Union and
Cuba, had been severed. When, under pressure, the admin-
istration ended this practice, the rebels resumed their fight.

The Administration has replaced the mining tactic with aid
to Nicaraguan “contras.” This policy, if approved in full,
will also lessen Nicaraguan ability to extend its influence.
Although the contras may not overthrow the present gov-

would need to support the contras only as long as it takes to
stabilize progressive, democratic governments, such as
that of El Salvador’s Jose Napoleon Duarte.

Allowing the crisis to fester unchecked poses a danger-
ous alternative. As the recent Nicaraguan invasion of Hon-
duras after the House rejected contra aid shows, the Com-
munist advance would continue. American interests, such
as the Panama Canal, would become endangered. As
American economic health and security become
threatened, American forces would become necessary. The
crisis will have developed to a point at which preventive
measures will be useless. We must not allow the fear of
another Vietnam to cloud our judgment of how to prevent

ernment, they will provide enough resistance to keep the it.
government’s full attention on preserving its own revolu-
tion, rather than extending it. The United States would not

be involving itself in an “open-ended commitment.” It Host is a freshman from Lexington, Kentucky.

ANTE?

HLORGE:
ROTC

Gateway to a great way of life.

ATTENTION SCIENCE
AND ENGINEERING
MAJORS!

SPEND THE SUMMER AND/OR
1986-87 SCHOOL YEAR IN SUNNY

SPAIN. Quality Instruction at
The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring in Economy Prices: Business Administra-
selected science and engineering fields Like Aeronautical, Aerospace tion, Hispanic Studies, Arts and Sci-
General and Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Com ~
© puter Technology ences. GRADUATE COURSES IN
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and HISPANIC STUDIES offered in July.
four year programs of study which will defray some of your college .
costs Contact: Admissions, St. Louis Uni-
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your versity, 221 N. Grand Bivd. St. Louis,
graduation, you'll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force Then . 800
comes responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the MO. 63103. Toll-free tel.: ( ) 325-
best people and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose 6666.

You'll get excellent starting salary. medical and dental care. 30 days
vacation with pay beginning your first year, and more

Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's in it
for you. See how you can serve your country in return

ATTENTION CHARLOTTE __RESI-
DENTS:

Excellent summer Day Camp counseling
opportunities for men and women who are
interested in serving boys and girls ages 9-
12, guiding them in their physical, mental
and spiritual development. Only those per-
sons who will dedicate their wholehearted
efforts to help each individual child develop
his or her potential should apply. One must
have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students,
teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP
ADVENTURE, SR. is located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte. N.C. For informa-
tion write or call Camp Adventure, Sr., One
Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C., 29710,
(803) 831-2977

This warning
ain.

will never be seen ag

WANTED:

Male summer counselors needed for coed
resident camp located on Lake Wylie.
Openings for WSI's, Water Skiing, Sail-
ing, Gymnastics, Tennis and General
Sports. Contact: Camp Thunderbird, One
Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C. 29710
(803) 831-2121.

AMERICAN + LUNG ASSOCIATION

Tre Crvisienas Gee! Peopte *
0

od

