10 Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

r—— Sports Page

Hockey playoff format needs revamping

By EDWIN PAGE

Imagine this scene: It is the Stanley
Cup finals. The two finest teams in pro-
fessional hockey are about to meet to de-
side who will keep the prestigious cup for
the next year. The Zamboni leaves the ice
and the teams emerge. But wait, as the
teams come onto the ice they are wearing
the uniforms of the lowly New York
Rangers and Toronto Maple Leaves
(known in some circles as the Make Be-
lieves). Surely this could not happen, and
yet as I write this article, it is still possi-
ble. The Rangers are already in the semi-
finals, and the Leafs are only one game
away from joining them.

I know that this is unlikely, but it is a
dream that I can cling to for a little while.
Just maybe, if the above nightmare
matchup were to materialize, the ensuing
comedy on ice would force the NHL to
rethink its playoff policy which allows
everyone but the poorest relations in the
league to come to the post-season party.

The Philadelphia Flyers labored
throughout the regular season to acheive
the second best record in the NHL. The
New York Rangers, on the other hand,
edged out the Pittsburg Penguins in the
last week of the season to sneak into the

back door of the playoffs. Despite this
disparity; these two teams found. them-
selvés on even ground come playoff time
except that Philadelphia had a one. game
home ice advantage. Five games later,
the Flyers were sent home by a team that
had no business in the playoffs to start
with.

In the next round, the Rangers dis-
patched the Washington Capitals,
another good team, to become “Patrick
Division Champions,” despite the fact
that their losing record placed them
fourth in the regular season.

Similarly, the Hartford Whalers stun-
ned the Quebec Nordiques in the first
round and came within a single goal of
joining the likewise unworthy Rangers in
the Stanley Cup semis when they lost to
Montreal in overtime of the seventh game
in the Adams Division Championship.

Granted, it is fun to root for teams
like the Leafs, Rangers and the Whalers
(how can you not feel for a team named
after a Burger King sandwich) simply be-
cause they are such huge underdogs. But
the truth is that the present system in the
NHL is utterly ridiculous. Legitimate
teams like the Flyers and Nordiques work
hard all season to post legitimate records
while other teams stumble along. win-

ning just often enough to not finish last,
and end up right in the thick of things
come crunch time. —

Once in the playoffs, all it takes is a
hot goal tender like. the Ranger’s John
Van Biesbrouck and any team can sud-
denly be competitive.

Since it is obvious that the regular
season means nothing, why not acknowl-
edge the truth. Below is a proposal thay I
believe would clarify the situation with-
out changing the nature of the NHL very
drastically.

The NHL should change the name of
the part of the year that preceeds the
playoffs from “regular season” to “pre-
playoff trophy tryouts,, because that’s
about all the regular season is now. The
regular season could be omited altogether
except for the fact that the NHL wouldn’t
have anyone to give the Lady Bing trophy
or the Vezina trophy or any of the other
oddly named awards to at the conclusion

‘of the playoffs. During the pre-playoff

trophy tryouts, the NHL could keep track
of important statistics like goals, plus-
minus ratio, and saves, but could ignore
useless nonsense such as wins and losses.

With the pre-playoff trophy tryouts,
everyone would know that the first 80

games were all for practice, and the
playérs would be allowed to stop pretend-
ing that they really matter. The playoffs
would be expanded by five teams to in-
clude everyone, but would otherwise
proceed as they do now.

Under this system; good teams like
Philadelphia and Edmonton could relax
during the regular season like everyone
else without undue pressure from the fans
to win: Then when the ‘playoffs came
around, they wouldn’t be tired and the
best team would most likely win.

In order to keep fans in the seats for
the pre-playoff trophy tryouts, a new
award could be added for the player caus-
ing the most serious injuries to opponents
during the tryouts. This would not only
continue the trend of exciting hockey that
the NHL now endorses, but would make
players like Tiger Williams and Nick
Fotiu feel important.

If the NHL chooses instead to keep
the regular season, I would then re-
ccomend that the number of playoff
teams be cut in half so that only deserving
teams be allowed to participate. If they
insist on calling it regular season, they
might as well make it mean something.

Bs m Sa

peak ras hS TG, es
¥ i oli a ee |
A Ey

mre,
aa’

ae SES, Nat aes
Freshman Ed Powell heads toward the Furman
goal, whom they played last Saturday

RP aw.,,.
"a

cy ye
Pe Pe

Senior Ed Lilly

ia cast

Freshman Tom Crystal with a unique style

GAY SUPPORT GROUP

Sponsored by:

The Office of the Chaplain
The College Union

The Housing Office

Concerned students and faculty have formed a

SUPPORT/ SOCIAL GROUP to meet the needs of
the gay community at Davidson College.

If interested in information on the second
meeting, please write: G.S.G.
P.O. Box 3082

Davidson, N.C. 28036
Confidentiality is assured.

