Friday, October 3, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

* "Beyond Davidson = |
\Daniloff retums to U.S.,Congress 5 gpproves tax reform

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Around the World:

The Soviet Union freed Nicholas
Daniloff, the American journalist con-
fined to Moscow. since fast month.
Daniloff returned to the U.S. Wednes-
day. The Soviets also released dissident
Yuri Orlov.

_Gennadi Zakharov, the employee of
the Soviet U.N. embassy whom the U.S.
accused of spying, pleaded.no contest to
the charge in a ‘3rooklyn court ard was
released. The White. House announced
that President Reagan and Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev will engage in a
meeting next week in Reykjavik, Iceland
to make preparations for a formal summit
later this year.

The Soviet government took a small
group of Western journalists ona tour of .
a Soviet nuclear test-site in Central Asia.
Soviet General Yuri Kebedev said, “The
aim of our journey is to show you that our
test site is silent.” ;

Secretary of State George Shultz sai
that in his recent talks with SovieyFor. ©
eign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze the
two had agreed to seek an end to the Iran-
Iraq war, but. he criticized the Soviet |
Union for failing to block the shipment of
arms to Iran from “countries with which
they have influence.” President Reagan’s
offer to sell 3.85 million metric tons of
wheat to the Soviet Union expired Tues-
day, and the Soviets still showed no inter-.
est in the purchase.

President Reagan vetoed legislation
imposing sanctions against South Africa,
bu indicated he would impose milder.
ones by executive order to head off a con-
pressional overridé of his veto. The
House voted 313-83 to override the presi-
dent’s veto. In an effort to win Senate ap-
proval of his veto, Reagan named veteran
black diplomat Edward Perkins as the
new Ambassador to South Africa. Mean-
while, South African Foreign Minister
Roelof Botha told several senators
Wednesday that Pretoria would cut off
grain purchases from the United States if

Wednesday to mourn the 177 men killed
Jast month in South Africa’s worst gold-
mining disaster.

Israel formally charged retired Amer-
ican auto worker John Demjanjuk with

crimes against humanity in torturing.

Jews at the Treblinka death camp.during
World War II. Israeli military authorities
appointed three Arab mayors to head
towns in the West bank that were previ-
ously controlled by Israeli officers.
Christian militiamen backed by Lebanese
army units foiled an attempt by pro-Sy-
rian militiamen to seize control of the
predominantly Christian sector of East
Beirut. Fifty-two were killed and 200
wounded in the fighting. Senior
Lebanese army officer Khalil Kanaan
was slain Monday in East Beirut.

The Philippines military reported the
arrest of top Communist rebel leader
Rodolfo Salas. The U.S. Senate voted
52-3 Monday to defeat a proposal for
$200 million in increased aid to the
Philippines: President "Corazon Aquino
said she was disappointed at the defeat,
but understood the Senate. had its own
priorities.

The French government Wednesday .

cancelled all police leaves amid warnings
by senior government officials that a new
wave of terrorist attacks could occur
soon. French police arrested nine people
in connection with last month’s series of
bombings in Paris. A senior french offi-
cial cited evidence that linked Syria with
the group police believe carried out the
bombings. Meanwhile, Prime Minister
Jacques Chirac’s conservative party
gained 17 new seats in the French senate.

In other news:

Sudanese rebels said they would not
allow an emergency airlift to bring food:
to starving people in government-held
areas of southern Sudan. China’s Com-
munist Party’s Central Committee held a
tare meeting Sunday and reaffirmed
China’s commitment to economic mod-
emization and increased standards of liv-
ing.

The leadership of the outlawed Polish
Solidarity movement announced the for-

~ the Senate votes to override the veto.
More than 250,000 South African
blacks stayed~-away from their jobs

mation of a council composed of seven
former fugitive leaders who are to work
openly for the restoration of the Union.

PIE IN THE SHY

PIZZA

Featuring

___Hand Rolled and_ Tossed Pizza (Made_While_You-Waich:
Pizza by the Slice (Until 4pm)
Submarine Sandwiches © Homemade Meatball Sandwiches
Italian Sausage Sandwiches ¢ Tossed Salads

| September 28th
To Celebrate Tim's 30th Birthday
30% Off Large Pizzas

° ONE NAY ONLY ©

PHONE IN OR TO-GO

ORDERS WELCOMED

- 663-7189

125.2 N. Main St. in The Markade (Behind Magic Rental) Mooresville

Mon-Thurs. 11am-10pm.

Fri. & Sat. 11am: 12(midnight)

Sun. 5-10pi

2 Blocks down from What-A-Burger. .

If you pass Belk, you

"ve gone too far.

West Germany’s Green Party con-
cluded a chaotic meeting in Nuremberg
with an apparent victory of its pragmatic
wing over its utopian and Marxist-
Leninist factions. Amnesty International

accused the British government of failing __

to conduct a proper investigation into
charges that the Northern Irish police de-
liberately killed unarmed civilians sus-
pected of being members of the Irish Re-
publican Army.
Across the Nation:
The House and Senate gave final con-
gressional approval to legislation creat-
ing a new Federal income tax system.
Representative Dan.Rostenkowski, the
floor manager of the bill, attributed the
legislation's strong support to “its prom-
ise of fairness, the sense that the family
down the street or the corporation across
town” will no longer be able to take
undue advantage of the tax code. The
House voted 292-136 in favor of the bill,
while the Senate’s margin was 74-23.
The House voted 201-200 to approve
a $562 billion overall appropriation bill

for 1987 despite President Reagan’s

threat to veto the bill. The Senate passed
a stop-gap measure’ to keep the govern-
ment operating for eight days until Con-
gress agrees on a final appropriations
bill.

The Senate passed by’a vote of 97-2
its version of an anti-drug bill after dec-
laring that “the exceptional nature of the
drug abuse problem” warranted exceed-
ing existing budget limits to combat it.

William Rehnquist and Antonin
Scalia took their oaths of office Saturday,
as Rehnquist became the Supreme
Court’s 16th chief justice, and Scalia be-
came the court’s 103rd member.

“President Reagan attended. the cere--

monies for the opening of the new Carter
Presidential library and celebrated Carter
as a President whose life and career “is
distinctly and gloriously American.”

The F.B.I. said it has formed a spe-
cial team of agents to investigate disclo-
sures of sensitive government informa-
tion to news organizations. A Pentagon
study concluded that the U.S. has no ef-
fective strategy to cope with the increas-
ing threat of terrorism and guerrilla war-
fare.

A federal grand jury indicted John :
Zaccaro, husband of former Vice-presi-
dential candidate Geraldine Ferraro, on
charges of bribery in the awarding of
cable television franchises in New York.

Thirty thousand dockworkers from
Maine to Virginia walked off their jobs
Wednesday in the first ipdustry-wide
strike against East Coast shipping com-
~panies since 1971. One hundred thirty-

nine people were arrested in Mercury;

Nevada at the nuclear test site in protest

against the nation’s continued under-
ground testing of nuclear weapons ‘in the
face of a Soviet moratorium.

In Business News:

In a speech to 10,000 bankers and
foreign economic officials attending the
annual meetings of the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund, President
Reagan said he wants American interest
rates to decline “even further” than they
have already this year. Mexican govern-
ment officials and the Bank Advisory
Group for Mexico announced they had
reached agreement on a rescue package
that will provide $12 billion in new loans
to Mexico. . ‘

The nation’s trade deficit shrank by
$4.7 billion during August, the largest ‘
one-month reduction on record. Com-
merce Secretary Malcolm Baldridge
said, “The decline in the dollar may be
‘taking hold.” The index of leading
economic indicators fell two-tenths of a
percent, implying several more months
of weak economic growth. Sales of new
homes fell 13.4 percent in August. The
Commerce Department also reported that
construction spending jumped 1.1 per-

—cent “in August. However, orders to

American factories plunged in August by
1.4 percent.

Stock prices dropped, as the Dow
Jones Industrial Average closed Wednes-
day at 1782.90 points, down 21.39 points
from a week ago. Gold prices dropped to
$425 an ounce, down $6, while silver
closed at $5.576, down 33.7 cents. The
dollar held steady against the British |
pound, but fell against the French franc,
the West German mark, and the Japanese
yen.

FROZEN YOGURT

