10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor Will Thomason, Business Manager
Nelle McCorkle, News Editor Andy Ball, Features Editor
.- Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editor oO
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Social life

The recent increase in North Carolina’s drinking age from 19 to 21
has presented the Davidson studént body with a major challenge: how to
maintain a social environment based to a large extent on alcohol-oriented
activities alive on a campus where approxmately three-fourths of the
students cannot legally drink alcoholic beverages... 7

And if the rise in the drinking age does not cause enough problems,
the Council for Campus and Religious Life has-passed new Patterson
Court restrictions that, among ather things, prevent freshmén from par-
ticipating in Court activities of any kind for the first five weeks of fall
term.

As the fear of an unavoidable “social death” crept across the student
body, several student groups. stepped to the forefront and either passed
‘policies or organized activities designed to keep social life at Davidson
humming. ;

The. Patterson Court Council deserves a great deal of praise for au-
thoring and implementing the new Patterson Court alcohol policy. This
policy, which essentially requires houses to serve alcohohin areas acces-
sible only by students proving they are 21, succeeds in providing protec-
tion against law suits for the houses without being a major inconvenience
for would-be drinkers. — ;

Union Board Presider’ Lucinda Kellam and the entire Union Board
deserve credit for their Herculean efforts to provide more activities than
any one person could hope to attend. By planning movies, parties, and
concerts that any student of any age can attend and enjoy, the Union has
eliminated “social death.”

While the rise in the drinking age and the new concern for freshman
involvement in Patterson Court have changed Davidson’s social life, so-
cial life at Davidson seems as strong as ever. Pitchers in the 900 Room, a
luxury which this year’s seniors may remember from the long-past first
month of their freshman year, have been replaced by plastic cups of beer
“abandoned” on table. at Court parties for “anyone” who dares to pick up
and consume:

Though upperclassmen may complain about the lost era of parties
jammed with freshmen and back porches dominated by free-running
kegs, the class of 1990 will know no other social life at Davidson. The
new policies of.today will be the old regulations of tomorrow.

nw

The Davideonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonien. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avall-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Jim Dillon, Laura Gabel, Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne,
Aaron Levine. TT

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee Bichelberger, Martha Johnson,-Nelle
McCorkle: . eo
’ Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wil-
ns ,
Photography Staff: Romy a. Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Pet-

, fanick «——-__. -
Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt
Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Kim Robertson, Susan Wil-
kins, Ben Yarborough Los

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey

>

oudt’

WELL, WE'LL

To the Editors: .

We want to applaud the efforts of the
student body thus far this year in-adhering to
the new policies regarding alcohol on Paf>
terson Court and freshman participation in
house functions. We would also like to en-
courage everyone to continue to respect
thege policies and the reasoning behind
m. Students are responsible for their de-
elgpment and implementation. The Patter-
on Court Selection Study Committee and
the Council on Campus and Religious Life,
which recommended the policy on
freshman participation of Patterson Court
during the fall term, were both composed

The Davidsonian’ s
“Opinions” section is the
only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on perti-
nent issues. We will print
opinions on any subject of
general interest we receive
from the campus community.
We adhere to the following
guidelines:

‘Any opinion should be
in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday
before publication, unless it
is typed on IBM 5.25” dis-
kette, in which case it is due 5
p.m. Tuesday. .

_ ‘We accept -typed and
legibly-written articles only.
‘Opinions should be

‘WE'RE OuT OF
“2 THE SOUTHERN
CONFERENCE o0

HAVE TO TAKE
A STEP

aah

Friday, September 19, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

View
| Ss

mostly of students. The Patterson Court
Council (PCC), which developed the Pat-
terson Court Alcohol Policy, is totally stu-
dent run. These policies will be reviewed at.
the end of the year, but we want to stress the
importance of abiding by them so that we as

.a Student body can accurately evaluate their

effectiveness. In order to maintain the
privilege of developing our own policies re-
garding student life, we as students must
uphold the current ones for which we are re-
sponsible.

Fran Houck — PCC president
Mark Sandy — SGA president

~e

mions Policy -

signed. We will only print
unsigned ones ‘if there is.a
compelling reason and the
author is known to us (the
editors).

‘We will not edit opin-
ions for content or style, but
for common English usage
only. We will inform the au-
thor of substantial changes.
— ‘Because of limited
Space, sometimes we are not
able to print all opnions sub-
mitted in one issue. We re-
serve the right to select arti-
cles from those wé receive ~
for publication. We will at-
tempt to print any. withheld
article the following week.
