2

Friday, April 4, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

DERS elections and classes Oops!
When we told you of the Gifts-in-Kind Humor Contest in last week’s edition, we
neglected to inform you as to where to submit your entries: they are to come
here, the Davidsonian office. Deadline is 5 p.m. April 30. Any form of (respect-
able) humor is welcome, so long as it includes the phrase, “Gifts-in-Kind.” First

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Squad (DERS) held its elections for new
officers on March 16. The new officers are:

Laure Van Dierdonk — President

Melissa McLemore — Vice President

Geoff Strouse — Secretary/Treasurer prize is $100.
Jim Taylor — Sophomore Representative
An eight-hour CPR class will be offered to Davidson students on Friday,
April 18 (2-6 p.m.) and Saturday, April 19 (10 a.m. to 2 p.m.). The sign-up list
will be at the Union desk. The class will be held in the Big Screen Room and Election results
there will be a $10 registration fee. SGA
An EMT (Emergency Medical Technician) class will be offered next year . . oe h lass president), Libby Sanders, Bets
starting Oct. 7. There will be a $12 fee for all non-rescue squad members. A penier senators: Christie Johnson (c P , y , y
sign-up list will be at the Union Desk. . . 1 sident), Karen Kemerait, Richard Tan-
For EMTS needing recertification, there will be a class from April 14 to May anes senators: Ken Mobley (class president), , "
Ae on Mondays and Wednesdays from 7-10 p.m. The test date is May 24 in Sophomore senators: John Black (class president), Charles Bratton, Lee Nagen-
: dran

Call Laure (-6208) or Melissa (-6026) for more information.

Honor Council

Seniors: Bobby Houck, John McNeill, John McNichols
Juniors: Lauren Adams, Andy Bright, Gretchen Schoel
Sophomores: Molly Cochran, Bill Sutton, Bob Vankirk

Senior Gift decided upon

The 1986 senior class decided to support Davidson's International Program
with its class gift. The class of ’86 hopes that the gift will provide a good founda-
tion for the Dean Rusk Program. The gift is entitled The Class of 1986 Summer
Abroad Scholarship, and it is designed to enable students to create their own
plan of work, study and travel abroad.

The 1986 Summer Abroad scholarship will honor one or more students with
a standard financial reward. A selection committee composed of representatives
from the Class of 1986 and the Dean Rusk Program Faculty Advisory Commit-
tee will receive and review the applications for the scholarship. All scholarship
recipients will be required to share publicly their summer abroad experiences.
This requirement is intended to raise the international awareness of Davidson
students and faculty.

The goal of the class is to raise $65,000 over a five-year period. The actual

CCRL: Florence Hay, Jeff Meyer
SCC: Elizabeth Boone, Rufus Timberlake

Review Board: Conrad Doenges
Get ready soon for Fall term elections.

pledging campaign began March 24. Sixty members of the current senior class
were selected to act as brokers for the gift. The brokers attended a mandatory
broker training session March 23 where they received instruction from experts,
College President John Kuykendall, Dr. John Griffith and Ambassador Jack
Perry as to how to solicit pledges from their classmates. Each broker is responsi-
ble for contracting a maximum of five pre-assigned seniors. The two-week

pledge campaign runs from March 24 to April 4.

Material contributed by Laurin DeBeck.

Chancellor needed

Is anyone interested in being the new SGA Chancellot? Duties include writ-
ing minutes, treasurer, keeping record of attendance at weekly meetings, and
various “odd jobs.” Compensation is $200 per term. Interested students should
contact Mark Sandy (-6409) or Merry Be Haas (-6309) by Monday, April 7.

By NELLE MCCORKLE

The Careers Office sponsored
its annual orientation session for
freshmen and sophomores
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. in the
900 Room. Careers Office Direc-
tor Ken Wood spoke on selecting
a major, finding internships and
choosing a career to an audience
of twenty students.

Careers Office resources
available to underclassmen in-
clude corporate information files,
Davidson alumni mailing address
computer print-outs organized by
vocation or city, and individual
developmental testing, according
to Assistant Director Carol Jor-
dan. An IBM Personal Computer
with a Discover software package
will also be available for aptitude
and interest testing by fall 1986.
The Careers Office plans to con-
duct networking, life work plan-
ning, and resume-writing semi-

Ce ee

Cr

nars in fall 1986 open to upper and
underclassmen.

“Every year,” Wood said,
“seniors say, ‘I wish I'd known
about these things when I was a
freshman or sophomore...’ We try
to get students to take responsibil-
ity for their careers as soon as pos-
sible.”

“Il really believe that attempt-
ing to be as fully alive in each mo-
ment as possible is the best prepa-
ration for a career,” Wood said.
“Most of you won't leave here and
go into a career.” He cited na-
tional averages which show that a
job change occurs every two years
and three different careers during
an individual's working life.

Wood emphasized the impor-
tance of course selection rather
than choice of major. “How you
package your experience at
Davidson, including extracurricu-
lar activities, is important.” He

called externships and internships
valuable for the exposure they
offer students to a specific field;
the Careers Office places approxi-
mately thirty-five students each
term in Charlotte internships:
“Most get course credit.”

“J don't know anyone who
takes grades seriously. 'm not
putting grades down, but it’s not
the only way to prepare yourself
for the future,” Wood said. “The
Davidson sheepskin is  well-
known in the Southeast. It will get
you some interviews, but it won't
get you any jobs,” he said.

Following the meeting, Wood
showed a 15 minute film on the
Washington Center, a nonprofit
Organization through which
Davidson students can earn course
credit by working as interns in
Washington, D.C.

Potok

Continued from page |
talization of thoughts.” The con-
frontation here results in the resol-
ution and fusion of values. In his
readings of My Name is Asher
Lev, Potok interpreted the aesthe-
tic problem of intellectual con-
frontation in culture, in which
compartmentalization of values
and thoughts is impossible. The
Jewish artist has a problem enter-
ing Western art because the only
available motifs and expressions
as a model in Western art are
based on pagan or Christian cul-

A

Careers Office Director Ken Wood

ture. Thus the Jewish artist must
compromise his values in light of
these motifs and make choices for
his art to resolve this core confron-
tation with peripnery influence.
He discussed In the Beginning, re-
vealing the tenuous mental pro-
cess of fusing diverse cultures. He
showed that there is a price to be
paid for this process of intellectual
fusion. Finally he interpreted his
The Book of Lights as core to core
confrontation resulting in no an-
swers.

Careers Office aims to assist students’ futures

College Relations

» *E
wee
