10—

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus-—=>— ~~~ Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon,. Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor Lee Eichelberger, /nside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

- Wishes

As this is the last Davidsonian before the Christmas break, we once
again present our annual Christmas wish list. In making these hopeful re-
quests, we considered only the best interests of Davidson College as a
whole.

1) New chairs in Chambers — With all the money being spent on a
new sports coliseum, it seems funds could be found for some comforta-
ble, quiet chairs for the many classrooms in Chambers. What better aid
to education could be granted to Davidson than chairs that allowed stu-
dents to be confortable and attentive and did not drown out the voice of
the instructor? :

2) Mercy from the outdoor maintenance staff — We realize the
maintenance crew works hard-to maintain the beautiful campus we all
enjoy and we applaud their efforts. All we-ask is that they find other tasks
for their morning labor (until 10:30 a.m.) and stop running chainsaws,
leaf blowers and trash vaccuums next to the dorms and waking students
desperately sleeping. fe: :

3) Three week Christmas vacation — The terms at Davidson rush
through a semester’s worth of work in ten weeks. As the academic terms

~ constantly préss the students and faculty ; why éan’t the vacations be lan-
guid? With a two-week break, students and faculty must be rushed even
when on vacation. Come on, give us a real break! ;

‘.. 4) A permanent conference —- Santa Claus came early for the athletic .

department and left a one-year extension for Davidson’s Southern Con-
ference membership. Hopefully he will return Christmas Eve with a per-
menant solution to Davidson’s hopelessly scrambled athletic woes.
Somebody remember to hang'a stocking iri Johnston Gym over break.

5) A shuttle service from Knox dorm to Chambers — The trio of |

dorms affectionately known as “sophomore year abroad”’ would not be

so undesirable without the long walk. A shuttle service — by golf-cart, ,

bus, cushman or monorail — would satisfy the fondest wish of all Knox,
Irwin and Akers residents.
6) A parking garage — Davidson now has ample parking, but anyone

who drives a car regularly certainly gets perturbed at walking the ex-

panse from the Irwin parking lot. A five-story parking garage next to
Belk dorm would solve the problem nicely. Of course wish number five
would work just as well. Also, all real schools have parking garages.

7) Cable television in the dorms — Now that the residents of Sentelle
have a lounge, they join the residents of the other dorms in hoping for
televisions that have a clear picture. Cable television in the dorms would
also decrease competition between MTVers and ESPNers in the union.

8) Laser Tag as an IMAC sport — This is the ultimate Yuppie sport
— taking the simple game of tag and making it a $35 to $45 per person
“game — and would fit perfectly in this extremely Yuppic-ish campus.
Besides, no referees would be needed.

Merry Christmas!

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-_
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy
Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed
Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.
Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve
Mank, Diana Miller.
Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry, Mathewes, Susan Wilkins . /
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda 'Higbie, Penelope. Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yaun. © Pee oe a os
Staff. Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.
Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert
Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strick-
land, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.
Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Wednesday, December ee 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s view

WHAT REALLY HAPPENED TO
THE 1986-87 YEARBOOK 000

~ Letters

To the Editors:

I must disagree with Mr. Covington’ s
letter that appeared in the last issue. First of
all, he must not have carefully read the
editorial which he criticized so strongly, or
he would not be calling himself a demon.
The editorial said that most people give
generously but some donors are “demons.”
Since Mr. Covington claims he gives with-
out demands, he should not consider him-
self a “demon.” I ask him to please. read
more carefully in the future.

In his letter, Mr. .Covington wrote,
“Davidson is for students present, past and

_____ future. It is for faculty and staff, friends and _

town-people.” [ have some questions. How
come the Board of Trustees, the body that
makes the major decisions for the College,

consists of approximately 70 percent —

alumni, yet not one person from the com-
munity is on the Board? Why is the presi-
dent of the Alumni Association a member
of the Board of Trustees ex officio but not
the chairman of the faculty? It seems to me
that voices of our students past are more
strongly represented that any other when

: Davidson has to make a major decision.

I must* also ‘argue against Mr.
Covington’s point that student opinion is

not ignored. When many Davidson students.

@

and faculty urged that the ‘College divest
from companies that are in South Africa the
Trustees decided to study the matter
further. Student and faculty opinion was ig-
nored.

The exit from the Southern Conference
is another issue where student opinion was
ignored. Only two students were on the
committee that decided that Davidson foot-
ball should go to the Colonial League and
thus get the college kicked out of the South-
ern Conference, and neither one were var-
sity athletes, the students most affected by
this move. When objections were raised by
the students the only justification I have
heard is that we will become more compete-
tive in football. This leaves many of the stu-
dents’ questions unanswered. In a decision
that concerns present and future students,
their opinions have been ignored.

The Davidsonian’s editorial should not
be ignored as Mr. Covington suggests, but
it most likely will be.

Perry Mathewes

Z Mistake

Correction

Dr. Robert Cathey’s wifé was incor-_

rectly identified in last week's issue as
Laura. Her first name is Barbara.
