Beyond Davidson

Friday , October 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Icelandic meeting begins, Soviet sub sinks

’ By DAVID WILLIAMS
Around the World:.
Senior administration officials said
President Reagan will hold firm to cur-

rent American positions in the Geneva °

arms talks and-does not plan to introduce
‘new proposals at his meeting this

weekend with Soviet leader Mikhael

Gorbachev. in Reykjavik, Iceland.

Administration officials said the U.S.
may exceed the SALT II treaty limit for
cruise missiles as early as November 11.
House majority leader Jim Wright said
House Democrats would delay a resolu-
tion of arms-control issues to avoid tying
Reagan’s hands before the: mini-summit.

A Soviet nuclear submarine carrying
16 ballistic missiles and a crew of 120
caught fire and sank Monday in the At-
lantic, about 1200 miles east of New
York. Three Soviets died in the fire, but
the remainder of the crew was rescued by
Soviet ships nearby.

_ The Senate Select Committee on In-
telligence charged that Vladimir Koles-
nikov, who is assistant to the Secretary
General of the United Nations, is a Soviet
intetligence officer. U.N. Secretary gen-

_ eral Javier Perez de Cuellar defended his
assistant and called on the Senate-com-
mittee to prove its charges.

The Soviet Union said it'would begin
pulling out between 6,000 and 7,000
troops from Afghanistan next Wednes-
day. U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar
Weinberger said the Soviet pullout repre-
sented a “ruse” to make it appear that the
force in Afghanistan was being reduced,
as American intelligence picked up signs

that 6,000 troops were moving into” “Af "y

ghanistan a few weeks ago. .
Soviet dissident Yuri Orlov acriiedl| in
New York with his wife Monday. Ameri-
can cancer researcher Arnold Lockshin
said Wednesday on Soviet television that
he had emigrated to the Soviet Union be-
cause of ‘ “persecution” in the United
States. ;

American hostages Terry Anderson
and David Jacobsen, who have been held
by Shiite extremists in Lebanon since
early 1985, appealed to President Reagan
on a videotape to work as hard to free

them as it did to free Nicholas Daniloff.
Reagan responded that there was no com-
parison between the Lebanon hostages
and the Daniloff case.

\Nicaraguan armed forces shot down
an American-built cargo plane in ‘south-
ern Nicaragua Sunday. Three people
were killed in the crash, but an American
survived and was taken prisoner by the
Nicaraguan government, who charged
that the plane was operated by the C.I.A.
American officials said the plane was op-
erated by a private group of American
supporters of the Nicaraguan rebels.

The Polish government Friday de- ~
- clared a council formed last week by

former underground Solidarity activists
illegal. The government ordered Solidar-
ity leader Lech Walesa and four other dis-
sidents to report to authorities for ques-
tioning.

Pope John Paul II visited Lyon, Fr-
ance and called on all groups at war and
all terrorists to halt hostile action for one
day and reflect on why they resort to vio-
lence. The Pope also acknowledged that

the church is facing a tremendous shor- "

tage of priests, which poses a danger to
the vitality of Catholicism.

P.L.O. chief Yasir Arafat said the
P.L:O will move its military headquar-

ters from Tunis to Yemen and Iraq. Shiite” 8

Moslem militiamen from ‘the Amal
movement battled with Palestinians for
six straight days, until a cease-fire was
announced Sunday. Sunni Sheik Sobhi
al-Saleh, who was the Spiritual head of
the Lebanese Sunni community, was as-
Sesion’ Tuesday i in Beirut.

fire pounded the city of Basra, as eight
civilians were killed and_ thirty-three
wounded. Iraqi planes virtually wiped
out Iran’s capacity to export oil from
Kharg Island i in the Persian Gulf.

The Senate, following the House,:
voted 78-21 to override President
Reagan’s veto of legislation imposing
stiff economic sanctions on South Africa.
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee
unanimously approved the nomination of
Edward J. Perkins to be U.S. Ambas-

Stoke. hanes boinbedl cosidentidt £
areas in. Kut, Iraq, while Iranian artillery

sador to South Africa. South Africa an-
nounced plans to repatriate thousands of

_ Mozambican workers in retaliation for

purported guerrilla attacks across the
Mozambique-South Africa border by the
African National Congress.

Amadou-Mahtar M’Bow of Bebegel,
who is director of the 159-nation United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organization (UNESCO) = an-
nounced he would not run for a third six-
year term of office.

U.S. state and federal officials ar-
rested three men in Texas who identified
themselves as members of the Mexican
Federal Judicial Police and charged them
with kidnapping seven American citi-
zens. Mexico denied the charges.

Across the Nation:

A Washington Post article said the
Reagan administration has devised a pol-
icy to leak to the press false information
designed to convince Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi that. his country is
about to be attacked by the’U.S. or over-
thrown by a coup. State Department
spokesman Bernard Kalb resigned his
post to protest “the reported disinforma-
tion program.”

The Senate Friday approved by an
2-13 margin a record $558 billion ap-
propriations bill for 1987 that includes in-
creased aid to the Philippines and mil-
lions of dollars in assistance to drought-

stricken farmers. While House and Sen-~

ate conferees were negotiating a final
version of the bill, both Houses approved «
a two-day stop-gap spending bill to keep

3: mm goverment running through today. -

-.Thé House and-Sénate voted to.ap-:
prove a compromise bill that would
strengthen the nation’s toxic waste law
and provide $9 billion for cleaning up the
nation’s waste sites. over the next five
years. Advisors urged President Reagan
to veto the bill because it calls for new
taxes on corporate earnings and crude oil.

Torrential rains: and flooding rivers
forced more than fifteen thousand people
in parts of Oklahoma, Kansas, Illinois,
and Michigan to evacuate their homes.
Many were able to return home after sev-
eral days.

NASA said Friday the first space
shuttle flights since the Challenger disas-
ter will begin February 18, 1988.

A three-day walkout by 30,000
dockworkers from Maine to Virginia
ended Friday when management agreed
to extend an expired contract and con-
tinue talks.

Ten key associates of Lyndon H.
LaRouche Jr. were indicted Monday on
Federal fraud and conspiracy charges
after a raid on the political extremist’s
headquarters in Virginia. —

The number of crimes committed
against individuals and households last
year fell by 700,000, or 1.9 percent, from
a year ago.

An internal audit reported that the
Navy lost track of almost $320 million in |
aviation spare parts aboard its aircraft
carriers last year.

In Business News:

~ Ministers from OPEC began an
emergency meeting Monday in Geneva
to seek a credible oil-price-support agree-
ment. Saudi Arabia’s oil minister called
for a return to OPEC’s firm production
and pricing system, suggesting a marker
of $17 to $19 a barrel for. crude.

The nation’s unemployment  ,rate
climbed 0:2 percent in September, to 6.9
percent. The. average rate on fixed-rate

- mortgage loans fell sharply in September

from 10.84 percent to 10.5 percent. The
Federal Reserve Board said Americans
took out $3.74 billion more in consumer
credit than they paid off in August, the
smallest increase in consumer debt since
March.

», Japan suspended its jem import

starift oh "U.S. cigarettes and tobacco

products, ending a year-long unfair trade
practices case brought by the U.S.

The First Interstate Banccorp of Los
Angeles made a formal offer to take over
the BankAmerica Corporation, the giant
California bank that has been staggered
by huge loan losses. The nation’s auto-
makers said Ford’s Escort was America’s
best-selling U.S.-made car in the 1986
model year. Domestic car manufacturers
closed their books Friday with sales
down 3.9 percent from the previous

‘model year.

Last Friday's lunar eclipse as seen from Davidson

Wanted: Part-time Sales

Help Contact Mitchell Mack
664-4711

‘‘B’’ average.
Information and applications:

- NAME

UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD
MODERN BRITISH STUDIES

Through Boston University, study for one’ semester at St.
Catherine's College, one of 35-colleges. that make up University
of Oxford. Courses are in modern British history, literature, and
politics, taught on-site by Oxford faculty. Students have full
privileges at St. Catherine’s rajaies Applicants need at least a

os

-

ADDRESS

CITY

STATE

ZIP

Return to: MBS, 143 Bay Siate Rd., Boston, MA.02215 (617)a59-9888

saaeenes panacaksbeddchaks OEADEbTABEROSdb AG AAMNARA TD UARGEEIEAAdesADbereaeenaCaecacebeces

BOSTON UNIVERSITY

