Opinions

Students guilty of misconceptions regarding femimism

Anne Lambert

Almost a year ago I published an article in the February
8, 1985 issue of The Davidsonian entitled “Davidson
Makes Sexism Institutional.” “As excellent as our David-
son education is,” I wrote, “the Davidson experience con-
tinues to perpetuate an ideology reinforced by society
based on male superiority and double standards, and
fraught with discrimination, degradation, and subjuga-
tion . . . . Many of us, without being aware of it, are being
subjected to and influenced by the sexist ideology which
Davidson subliminally maintains,” and J urged Davidson
and its students to educate themselves against the “ignor-
ance” of women’s issues and feminism that continues to
allow this hidden system of oppression. In writing the opin-
ion, however, I made the mistake of assuming that I was
addressing a student body ready and able to jump on the
feminist bandwagon and actively support the fight for
women’s equality. Not so. It has been my experience in the
past year that the majority of students at Davidson College
have gross misconceptions regarding feminism and
women’s issues. This is intolerable at a facility of higher
learning and unbelievable among any person of more than
reasonable intelligence. Most of the students who attend
Davidson College subscribe to the belief that women have
the same capabilities and rights as men, that women should
be afforded the same opportunities as men, and that women
should not be penalized because of their sex. If you are one
of those who share such beliefs then you are a feminist. Al-
though I continue to meet more and more students who
share and support the ideology, many refuse to align them-
selves with the feminist movement or call themselves
feminists because of the negative associations of the word
and the misconceptions regarding the purposes of
feminism.

This fall I was privileged to take a Women Writers
c6urse-at Davidson, the first time the “subject had been
taught in more than five years. In one of the early days of
the course, the professor asked students to define feminism
and to give their impressions of what a feminist was. |
cringed to hear the honest yet uninformed adjectives: “‘stri-
dent,” “aggressive,” “hostile,” “man-hating.” Negatively
described, a feminist was ‘ta women who is very adamant
about women’s rights” (while I was thinking “what could
be more desireable?) The professor later asked, ‘““Would
you be embarrassed to be known as a feminist?” The over-
whelming student response was yes (as a million female
voices throughout history were raised in a silent cry of sor-
row.) Unfortunately, this seems to be the general opinion
of the majority of students at Davidson. I am here to say
that such a view of feminism is wrong and such an opinion
is inappropriate among educated people. I am here to say
that I would be embarrassed not to be known as a feminist
and that many students at this college are feminists and do
not realize it or do not prefer to admit it.

Are you a feminist? Yes, you are. How can you tell?
How many of these statements do you agree with? (I hesi-
tate to define feminism in this way but here goes):

I believe that:

1) every woman has the right to the pursuit of happi-
ness?

2) a woman should have political, economic and social
rights equal to those of men?

3) equality of rights under the law should not be denied
or abridged by the United States or by any state on account
of sex?

4) violence against women in any form is intolerable?

5) women are equal in intelligence and capabilities to
men?

~ 6) women have the right to pursue any interest or career
they choose?

7) women in conditions and positions equal to those of
men should be paid equal salaries?

8) relationships between women and men should be
equal partnerships of sharing and support?

If you answered yes to all of these statements, you are —
guess what — a feminist. If you answered yes to more than
four you are probably a feminist. (By the way, if you an-
swered yes to number 3, you support the Equal Rights
Amendment. That’s right, there it is, all 24 words of it.)
The gap between recognizing one’s feminist sympathies
and saying, “I am a feminist,” however, is often a difficult
one to bridge. I have often heard individuals say that if we
picked another word, we could remedy negative connota-

tions. But a new word will not dispel ignorance and misin-
formation about the movement; only educated and in-
formed representation and discussion will enlighten society
about what feminism really is.

These easy-to-read statements are undeniable. Could
any person reasonably answer no to any one of these? Yet
the hesitation to align oneself with feminism as an ideology
and a movement by saying “I am a feminist” is, unhappily
and understandably, great. The protest of many an intelli-
gent individual is, “Yes, I understand and support the
ideology of feminism but that doesn’t mean I have to call
myself a ‘feminist.’ I believe in the right of all people, male
and female, to self-fulfillment. Color me ‘humanist.’”
“Humanism” is a safer word, implying a universality that it
is believed feminism doesn’t advocate. People wrongly
perceive that admitting to being feminist implies an accusa-
tion against men, that the women’s movement is only for
women, only in support of women or, worst of all, pitting
women against men. These misconceptions about
feminism are simply untrue. Feminism works to improve
the situation for all individuals, wants to insure the right for
all, regardless of gender, to self-fulfillment. It is the asser-
tion of the feminist movement, however, and the indication
of the fate of countless women throughout history and
today, that the process of self-fulfillment is for women in
particular, sociologically hindered.

Often, these social hindrances are so subtle or so much
a part of our everyday existence that we ignore their pre-
sence or their significance. Ignorance of this nature is a par-
ticular among women in institutions like Davidson Col-
lege. Women here want to believe that we are somehow
special, that because of who we are and where we are that
we will never be denied political, economic and social
rights equal to those of men. Imagining that we have some-
how beaten the system that would repress us is a seductive
belief indeed, but it is an illusion. Women students at
Davidson suffer considerable discrimination, as evidenced
by the ratio of female to male professors, administrators
and trustees, by the lack of resources for women’s studies
and concerns on this campus, by the numerous incidents of
acquaintance rape that have gone reported or unreported,
by the funding for women’s sports as compared to men’s
sports, by the pornographic movies shown in fraternity
basements and by a social situation that encourages separa-
tion and perpetuates stereotypes.

What women may not realize is that this is, on a small
scale, the same discrimination that they will experience
when they enter the “real world.”

No educated and intelligent person can reasonably
argue that women should not have political, economic and
social rights equal to those of men, yet a patriarchal society
continues to deny those rights by continuing to oppress and
subjugate its women (via social barriers to political and
economic arenas, by refusing entrance or advancement
within specific careers, by devaluing women’s work, etc.)
Feminism, founded as it is on the concept of equal oppor-
tunities for women, puts necessary action behind belief.
“After all,” Gloria Steinem says, “the belief in the full hu-
manity of women [feminism] leads to the necessity of
transforming male-supremacist structures.” For women,
the process of self-fulfillment is two-fold — we must both
fight for our rights and then exercise them. The two experi-
ences are necessarily interdependent. The feminist poet
and educator Adrienne Rich writes:

It’s exhilarating to be alive in a time of awakening con-

sciousness; it can also be confusing, disorienting, and

painful. This awakening of dead or sleeping conscious-
ness has already affected the lives of millions of women,
even those who don’t know it yet. It is also affecting the
lives of men, even those who deny its claims upon
them... . {Acknowledgement of feminism] is for
women an act of survival. Until we can understand the
assumptions in which we are drenched we cannotknow
ourselves. And this drive to self-knowledge, for
women, is more than a search for identity; it is part of
our own refusal of the self-destructiveness of male-
dominated society.
It is my assertion that (for women in particular but for all
persons) the struggle toward realizing one’s rights neces-
sarily implies an association with feminism. Those who es-
chew the label of “feminist” might advocate “human
rights” as opposed to “women’s rights.” But it is too easy to
say, “I am not a feminist. | am a humanist. I believe in the
right of all people to self-fulfillment.” That is only logical,
only reasonable, nothing more, unless you are Botha or Hi-

tler, than saying the sky is blue. If you support the ideals of
feminism and you agree that women are discriminated
against and are denied basic rights in today’s society, you
must add your voice in support of the women’s movement.
Until our patriarchal society is reformed so that women and
their rights are entirely incorporated, the validity and
necessity of feminism continues to be maintained. By say-
ing “I am a feminist,” you will be saying what you believe.

Ah, but you knew I would not stop there. Not only do I
want your voice — I want your active participation in the
fight for women’s equality. What can be done? I say many
things. First, get the sexist language out of your papers
(“humanity” for “mankind,” “he and she” for ‘“he”).
Examine your class curriculum closely — How are women
included and portrayed in your studies? Talk to your pro-
fessors about feminism and the discipline. Consider the so-
cial situation at this school. How do we perpetuate dis-
crimination against women and make disparities an ac-
cepted part of the Davidson experience? Some of the best
writing of the decade has been and is being produced by
women. Find some fiction and poetry by women and read
it. Include feminist criticism as part of your standard re-
search for papers. Join the Women’s Concerns Committee.
Read the Women’s Concerns Bulletin Board (next door to
the alumni office on first floor Chambers), particularly the
article by Adrienne Rich, “Taking Women Students Seri-
ously.” Attend the events for Women’s Week on this cam-
pus Feb. 2-8. Join the National Organization for Women
(address on bulletin board), the largest professional organt-
zation for women in the country. Perhaps most impor-
tantly, talk with women about feminism and the women’s
movement. The network of feminism is strong and life-sav-
ing. We are revolutionaries trading literature and informa-
tion like passwords. And finally, as a feminist consciously
endeavor in the process of your education to be aware of

feminism and the women’s movement in society. Consider
this school itself — were it not for the women’s movement
there would be no female students on this campus. Though
the transformation remains gradual, women’s contrib-
utions to all disciplines is being realized and acknowledged
through women’s studies courses and women's resources.
Men, think about your mothers, sisters, lovers and friends.
How do stereotypes and social limitations hinder them?
What are they not allowed or not encouraged to do as
women in this society? Women, think about the rights that
the women’s movement has obtained for you. Had it not
been for feminists who fought and died years before for the
right to vote, you would not have it today. Because of
feminism, women have the right to make their own choices
about their reproductive freedom. But the fight 1s not over
Novelist Alice Walker shared these words with the 1972
graduating class of women from Sarah Lawrence College. |
believe she speaks to all feminists:

Your job, when you leave here ~~ as it was the job of
educated women before you — is to change the world.
Nothing less or easier than that. | hope you have been read-
ing the recent women’s liberation literature, even if you
don’t agree with some of it. For you will find, as women
have found through the ages, that changing the world re-
quires a lot of free time. Requires a lot of mobility. Re-
quires money, and, as Virginia Woolf put it so well, “a
room of one's own,” preferably one with a key and a lock.
Which means that women must be prepared to think for
themselves, which means, undoubtedly, trouble with boyf-
riends, lovers, and husbands, which means all kinds of
heartache and misery, and times when you will wonder if
independence, freedom of thought, or your own work is
worth it all.

We must believe that it is. For the world is not good
enough. We must make it better. Her message to us in 1985
is the same.

My name is Anne Lambert and I am a feminist. Yet I

continue to be frustrated and saddened by the unintentional
yet inexcusable ignorance at Davidson (and universally ) re-
garding women and their concerns and of feminism.
If there is one thing that I could give to my school and its
students before I leave, it would be a greater understanding
and affirmation of feminism and its intention; if there is one
hope I carry with me from these hallowed halls, it is that
more students would realize the imperative to add their vol-
ces and efforts to the fight for women’s equality.

Lambert is a senior English major from Decatur, Ga.
