Friday, April 18, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

13

Women deserve the right to compete in sports

Wendy Fulks

J am a senior, and a female athlete. By virtue of these
two “distinctions,” I feel somewhat qualified to address
some of the issues this campus has faced, and must deal
with in the near future, concerning athletics at Davidson.
Many of us women who have participated in sports at
Davidson have become frustrated with the situation here,
or perhaps frustrated is not the right word. Some of us are
mad, maybe even very mad. My two main points are these:
I) By virtue of Davidson’s size, we (men and women) do
not belong in Division I of the NCAA, and 2) although it
seems that we are destined to remain in Division I, David-
son is not prepared to spend the money necessary to make
us competitive in this division.

Oh, but “The Basketball Team” went to the NCAA's
this year! Wow, “The glory days are back!” How wonder-
ful! Surely that proves that Davidson belongs in Division I.
First of all, let me ask all of you who refer to Davidson bas-
ketball to qualify which team you mean. Time and time
again I have seen references to “The Basketball Team,” as
if we had only one. This brings me to my next point,
namely, that one NCAA bid for one team does not justify
the fact that six women’s teams must compete with Divi-
sion I schools. We simply do not have the numbers of
women, nor do we have the talent to be successful at this
level. We must also realize that some men’s teams simi-
larly suffer from our ambitious classification.

Is it fair to give scholarships (etc.) to male basketball
players, but not to women, to baseball players, to
wrestlers, etc.? You simply cannot convince me that
Davidson is “in the right” about this one. Davidson's male
basketball team is competitive because Davidson pumps
big bucks into that one program, and lets the others fend for
themselves. Oh, but they bring in a lot of revenue, don’t
they? Oh, and the alumni would abandon Davidson. if it
weren't for “The” good basketball team we have. Well I,
for one, think that, while it might not be easy, Davidson
can live without Men's Basketball revenues. Furthermore,
if “Big Basketball” is the primary concern of some alumni,
I think that Davidson can do without their support. David-
son alumni need to understand that today’s Davidson may
be significantly different than the one they remember.
Their primary concern should be that all Davidson students
have the opportunity to supplement their education with ap-
propriate activities, to include a wide base of competitive
athletic teams.

Besides all of this, who says that Division III basketball
won't be any fun? Personally, since being exposed to the
injustices (I know that’s a pretty strong word; I wanted one)
of Davidson athletics, I have been unable to support David-
son Division I Men's Basketball with any degree of fervor.
Wouldn't it be great if Davidson could have many, win.
ning, competitive teams at the Division III level, as op-
posed to having an outstanding season in Division I Men's
Basketball, once in a while?

Well, it seems that we're stuck in Division I. Perhaps
we have the Trustees and/or Alumni to blame for this one:

I'm not sure. I don't blame the NCAA, that's for sure. They
shouldn't allow Davidson to have Division I men's teams
and Division III teams for women. I would call that dis-
crimination. Sort of like giving scholarships to an elite
group of athletes and excluding others, eh? As far as I can
tell, things will go on at Davidson as they have before, with
no great increase in the monetary support given to women’s
athletics. So, the women's basketball team must once again
suffer losing seasons and campus ridicule, “The” tennis
team (1 mean the women, of course, the 1984 Division III
champs) probably will no longer “enjoy success,” now that
they are playing Division I, and other teams, women’s and
men’s, will keep their mediocre standings in a division
which is out of our league.

Is the solution to sponsor different teams, those in
which we can be more competitive? Probably not. David-
son will get what it pays for. Without money, and lots of it,
for scholarships, more travel, better equipment, etc.
women at Davidson will “enjoy” little success on any athle-
tic fields and courts in the future. I don't know about you,
but I happen to think that Davidson women deserve more.
We deserve the opportunity to compete with “women our
own size,” so to speak, that is, in Division III. However, if
we must remain in Division I we should receive the finan-
cial commitment to support women’s teams and to attract
more talented female athletes to be competitive in Division
I.

Fulks is a senior from Leicester, NC.

Women’s athletics needs recommitment

Women’s Tennis Team

For several years Davidson has been in violation of a
number of NCAA rules. Foremost is the NCAA rule that a
school must have six Division I women’s sports teams to
compete in Division I. We have not prepared adequately to
meet this requirement. Take a look at the women’s sports
teams that qualified for Division 1:

1) Women’s cross-country

2) Women’s field hockey

Women’s basketball — did not qualify because of too
few Division I games

3) Women’s indoor track (did you know we had one?!)

4) Women’s outdoor track — barely qualified! five out
of the 14 member team had to be recruited to meet qualifi-
cations

Women's tennis — has been Division IT for four years

Davidson has been aware of the need to bring the
women's program into compliance with the six-sport mini-
mum since it was adopted by NCAA in 1981. What did it

do? In regards to effectiveness — nothing. Our sports ad-
ministration has been getting around these violations for
four years. Over five months ago, NCAA made it clear that
Davidson must comply with the Division I sport sponsor-
ship requirement this year or face becoming “unclassified”
in both men’s and women’s sports next year. What did our
administration do? Again, nothing that corrected David-
son’s violation. With five weeks left in the year, we are
now facing the penalties of their inaction. The school must
immediately find two new women’s sports somewhere.
Last week Davidson literally threw together a golf team.
With no clubs or preparation, five women traveled to
Durham this past weekend and shot 18 holes against eight
Division I schools. Their goal was to finish, never mind
competing. But that’s the fifth women’s sport. Now,
women’s tennis is being forced up to Division I effective
immediately. For the sake of creating this sixth team,
Davidson is sacrificing the tennis team's last chance at a
Division IIT National Championship.

We reiterate, Davidson's sports administration has
been aware of the inability of the women’s athletic program

at Davidson to comply with NCAA Division | regulations
and has failed to prepare adequately for their enforcement.
And now, to save Davidson's eligibility in Division I (as
well as their pride), Davidson is willing to make a joke of
women’s sports. If we cannot field six Division I women’s
Sport teams, Davidson wil! be considered “unclassified.”
This means that next year Davidson's sports teams would
not be permitted to compete in post-season play, but then
would resume status in an appropriate division. Not only
does Davidson deserve this penalty for its negligence to-
wards women’s athletics, but the college needs this period
to reassess its athletic direction, commitment to and expec-
tations of their men's and women's athletic programs in the
future. But rather than accept these consequences, the Ath-
letic Department is opting to manipulate the women’s
sports program for the sake of a single year of Division |
qualification. Please prevent the continued negligence of
the real needs of Davidson's women's athletics ~- Become
informed about what's going on — Express your concerns
to faculty, staff, and administrators | Support us in our
fight!! Thanks!!

GAY SUPPORT GROUP

The Office of the Chaplain

sponsored by:

Concerned students and faculty are forming a
support/social group to meet the needs
of the Gay Community at Davidson College.

The College Union
The Housing Office

please write:

Confidentiality is assured

If interested in information on the first meeting,

G.S.G., P.O. Box 3082
Davidson, NC 28036
