_ Opinions

7

Freshmen have a right to free choice

Kirk Orrell

About this time last year, I was asked to attend a meet-
ing with other freshman guys interested in re-establishing a
chapter of Kappa Sigma at Davidson. Together with five or
six friends I went to the meeting, held upstairs at the Com-
mons. The leader of the crusade stood up and spent about
ten minutes verbalizing his interest in a new fraternity, at-
tempting to foster interest by others. After he spoke he
asked for a show of hands by those who were “seriously in-
terested” in joining in on his venture. I thought out the pros
and cons, as did the other thirty or so freshmen, and chose

to keep my hand down. He counted hands and we all went
our own ways, Kappa Sig never materialized.

As The Davidsonian has recently told us, a group of
freshmen have decided to give Kappa Sigma another shot
this year. And I would love to see it materialize at Davidson
— not because I want to join but because others do. They
have the interest and the pioneering attitude — if they want
to give it a shot, I give them my support.

However, as I walked out of my basement Belk room
this morning I couldn’t help but notice a decor of bright yel-
low flyers displaying a message: “Don’t be mis-
led . . . How much do you really know about KAPPA
SIGMA? . . . Do not pass up a sure thing for a misguided,
hopeless idea... Play it safe and self-select this
week . . .” I was amazed. And disappointed.

The whole point of self-selection is free choice; it’s one

of the fundamental elements of Davidson’s pride. Students
obviously want to move away from co-ed eating to frater-
nities and other single-sex clubs, and nobody has a right to
scare freshmen away from that trend. The goal of these
pioneers is certainly not a “misguided, hopeless idea.” Last
year Spencer successfully joined the other organizations on
Patterson Court and at some point in the years gone by all
the other houses had to do the same.

Every upperclassman once had his or her own free
choice to self-select; now it’s time for a new class to make
these choices. Don’t interfere with the self-selection pro-
cess. This weekend, let our freshmen make decisions that
they want, decisions that they will have to live with over the
next four years.

Orrell is a sophomore from Andover, Mass.

Fine Film? Where? -

Matt Morris

Evil of the worst sort lurks in Love Auditorium every
Saturday night at 8 p.m. Have you noticed? Have you
noticed how every Davidson “fine” film this year is in facta
pop film (and usually a bad pop film) in disguise? Why, did
you notice that some ogre has decided to book The Wall, a
doltish exercise in pop pretension (featuring a truly gross
synth soundtrack by those 60s relics who refuse to die —
Pink Floyd) later this term? And Entre Who? (Oh excuse

I found myself, like Dennis Hopper in
Saturday’s film, lost in disillusion-
ment.

?

me, I forgot, this is a movie “dealing with the relationships
of women — whatever the hell that means — and after all,
it is french.) Don’t get me wrong — Easy Rider kicks in a
nostalgic sort of way and shold be taken in by every senior
Davidson student at least once before entering the Charlotte
NCNB Building’s pearly gates, but a fine film it ain’t, just
like The Jungle Book, Amadeus, Silent Running, Arthur

and any number of other fine films shown this year “ain’t.”
As a former fine film chairman myself, I believe I can ad-
dress the lack of quality film programming with a fair
amount of “insider’s” accuracy. During my preliminary in-
terview for the fine film post, I was told by the starry-eyed
powers that be not to fret over making money with fine
films; they emphasized instead simply showing good
movies. “Money is no object” I was told. Several weeks
later, however, as a large group of the more “arty” films on
my schedule started disappearing (Welles’ Lady for Shan-
ghai was a particualarly disturbing casualty) and were sys-
tematically replaced by more “important movies like The
Atomic Cafe; 1 found myself, like Dennis Hopper in Satur-
day’s film lost in disillusionment. I was searching for
Davidson and I just couldn’t find it.

I don’t blame the student president of fine films — I
realize how hard it is to work within the system that the col-
lege union has set up — no, instead my guns are aimed
primarily at the czars and czarinas that run the union and
who divy up your student activity money. As long as there
are Bergmans, Hitchcocks, Kurowasawas and Welles
floating in the universe how can Davidson stoop to the
levels of filmmaking witnessed in this years’ poor, even ir-
regular movie schedule? The answer brothers, I fear, is
greed. Why does the union fine film department show a dud
disney movie like Jungle Book (don’t get me wrong — I
love Walt Disney, but this one stunk in °68, and it still

stinks) on numerous occasions and avoid almost entirely
the foreign film market? Like Randy Newman said, “It’s
money they love . . .” And hey, it’s not like the union has
to worry about cash returns — they’ve got a guaranteed 40
bucks from every head that enters this college each year,
not to mention the cut they get from your $10,000 plus an-

G I was searching for Davidson and I just
couldn’t find it.

?

nual tuition. You’re now probably asking yourself, “What
they is done with all the profit (and believe me, there are
dollars being made — the union knows how to push a
movie when it wants to) from these foul films? Why, that
money is used to hire loser acts like Speidel, Goodrich and
you fill in the blank to play spring frolics, marking the
threesomes third appearance at Alenda Lux ad nauseum in
the last year. Remember the Alamo! Remember the Maine!
Remember the Michael W. Smith concert?

The moral of this article, I hope, is clear — the David-
son College Union is your union (just like WDAV is your
radio station) and not a haven for special interest groups
and Philestine Phine Phlegm. Hey y’all, like the song says,
we’re not asking for much, just “the bear necessities.” At
the Davidson College Union today, however, the situation
is sadly bare.

Morris is a senior English major from Roanoke, Va.

Resident Advisor, a special job

Mary Edwards

The following article by Edwards was written for the
Student Housing Office.
An amorphous beginning (without form and void) —
_the substance extracted and then molded into structure; the
structure restructured, painted and polished. That, whether
it be the making of the world, an article or an organization,
is the creative process. And the Housing Office seeks per-

sons interested in service and fun to polish its creation —_

the Resident Advisor Program.

The Resident Advisor program has a firm foundation.
Advisors are responsible to three groups: their hall, the ad-
ministration and other advisors. On the hall responsibilities
include getting to know residents, fostering a sense of com-
munity and being available to students for counseling and
crisis intervention. As a liaison between students and ad-
ministration, advisors work closely with Tom and Debby in
the Housing Office. Advisors also work with Will, Har-
riette and Paula in the Dean’s Office, the housekeepers, the
physical plant and the campus police. Specific responsibili-

ties include checking students in and out of rooms, report-
ing hall damages, requesting work orders, and, of course,
letting locked-out students into their rooms and providing a
vacuum Cleaner for the more tidy residents.

Each Spring advisors participate in a retreat for chal-

lenge and adventure. Two years ago we camped on the -

Outer Banks during a monsoon and tried to hang-glide, and
this past year we went hiking and white-water rafting. In
the fall advisors regroup before school to become reac-
quainted with one another and to participate in leadership

G

There is achallenge to discovering new
ways to utilize the skills and energy toa
group with such great potential.

and counseling workshops. Throughout the year advisors
attend weekly meetings for business and laughter, gather
for periodic social events, retreat again in the middle of the
year and organize informal meetings within halls.

These responsibilities and activities demand energetic,

responsible and open-minded students who are able to re-
late well with others and who are interested in personal
growth. The experience offers to such a student programs,
activities and responsibilities which strengthen skills in in-
terpersonal relations, group leadership, assertiveness and
organization. Long-term advantages include personal
growth and friendships as well as experience toward
Graduate Hall Director positions and full-time positions in
psychology, management, social work and education.

The Resident Advisor program fosters skills,
friendships and fun, but the program (like this article) has
much potential which still needs polishing. As an advisor
who has been involved with the program for last two
years, the variety of personalities within the p gram has
added diversity to my friendships and has provided a solid
support group. There is a challenge to discovering new
ways to utilize the skills and energy to a group with such
great potential. If you are interested, the Resident Advisor
program will offer friendships and challenge in your “ma-
turer” years at Davidson. Applications are available in the
Housing Office now, and there will be an informational
meeting for all applicants on Wednesday, Feb. 12, at 5
p.m. inthe Big ScreenRoom. =|
Edwards is a senior from Raleigh, N.C.

