Opinions

The Davidsonian
Friday, October 31, 1986

Take a look at the candidates and the issues
Democratic

Many students at Davidson are rela-
tively unfamiliar with American politics,
particularly in Mecklenburg County. The
current 9th District congressional cam-
paign, however, deserves closer attention.

The race revolves around the question
of which candidate will deal realistically
with the problems facing our country. Mr.
Martin is that candidate.

He has outlined six legislative proposals
for introduction during the next session of
‘Congress. These proposals deal specifically
with problems ranging from radioactive
waste disposal to welfare reform.

The editors of the Charlotte Observer
have endorsed Mr. Martin, praising his
“issue-oriented approach to campaigning.”
The editors add that “if his campaign is suc-
cessful,.it will set a precedent for future
candidates.” ,

In contrast, Mr. McMillan has spon-
sored only one bill, two months before the
end of his first congressional term. Yet, he
has claimed credit for our country’s recent
economic growth, “the strongest economic
recovery since the Depression.”

Mr. McMillan fails to acknowledge,
however, from what our country was recov-
ering. The first years of Reaganomics wit-
nessed the worst economic depression since
the Great Depression. Since then, the
economy has rebounded vigorously. Unfor-

tunately, this recovery has drawn much of
its strength from record federal deficits and
an influx of foreign capital. As the national
debt rises, our country is mortgaging away
more and more of its future.

Mr. McMillan claims credit for this re-
covery, an economic success story written
with smoke and mirrors. He was elected,
however, after Reaganomics was largely in
place. If anything, he was elected because
of the economic “success” of 1984. How
can Mr. McMillan claim credit when he
wasn’t yet in office?

Mr. Martin understands the underlying
problems in our economic recovery. He
also possesses the political courage to deal
with these problems and to apply the fiscal
restraint necessary for winning back our
country’s economic future.

The editors of the Charlotte Observer
describe Mr. Martin as “a good man who,
we’re convinced, would be an outstanding -
congressman, transcending such labels as
‘liberal’ and ‘conservative’ in search for ur-
gently needed new directions, particularly
in fiscal and domestic policy.”

In other words, “This time, D.G.”

Submitted by Ted Davis and Bill Young,
Davidson College Democrats

Republican

Caryn Coppedge

On November 4th, the constituents of
the Ninth district of North Carolina will
choose their Representative to the 100th
Congress. They will choose to send the Re-
publican incumbent, Alex McMillan or his
Democratic challenger D.G. Martin. Al-
though I claim no special understanding of
the issues or unique interpretation of the
stances of the candidates, I do believe I am
in a position to comment on Alex McMillan
and the job that he does for the 9th District
in Washington. I interned with Con-
gressman McMillan for eight weeks this
summer and feel this experience allows me

‘an understanding of his attitudes and ap-

proaches.
First, let me say that I originally ap-

proached my jdéb with much of the cynicism

that is indigenous to Washington. Let me
also say that this perspective has changed. I
have learned that the quality of work done
in Congress varies with the intent of the
Member. Admittedly, there is the potential
to produce the kind of work that mandates
questions as to the validity and integrity of
those who comprise “The Hill.” Con-
versely, there is the potential to work con-
sistently and conscientiously for both con-
stituents and their concerns. The latter is the
type of work that Alex McMillan is doing
for his district.

If I can point to one moment when my
opinion began to change, it would be the

——

first legislative meeting that I attended. The
Congressman had come back early from a
recess to work on The Housing Bill. I fully
expected the meeting to be a briefing; I ex-
pected the staff to update the Congressman
on the issue and perhaps even suggest how
he might vote. In fact, the Congressman
was more fully appraised of the issue, its in-
consistencies, and its contradictions than
was his staff. He was unwilling to settle for
conceptual answers to his specific ques-
tions. He focused in on the practical and
tangible results of the bill and its amend- -
ments, forcing his staff to speculate on the
actual impact of the bill on a variety of 9th
district residents. McMillan’s dedication, I
might add, has motivated this same staff to
volunteer many extra hours; hours that ben-
efit the 9th District. Their commitment and
competency has in turn given them the
reputation for being one of the most effec-
tive offices on the Hill.

In conclusion I can say that I was ex-
tremely impressed by Alex McMillan’s
cogitative sensitivity for both his con-
stituents’ concerns and the complexities of
his job. I urge all residents of the 9th Con-
gtessional District to consider the issues
and the candidates carefully as they choose
their Representative to the 100th Congress.

Coppedge is a junior from Potomac, MD,
and is a member of the College Republi-
cans.

Just Words _

Lord of the Flies passes on secrets of his art

ra)

Tim Brown

As she skips her way through Wonderland, Alice
bumps into Tweedledum and Tweedledee. Tweedledum
and Tweedledee are indistinguishable, except for their
embroidered collars. Tweedledum has “Dum” embroi-
dered on his collar, and Tweedledee has “Dee” embroi-
dered on his collar. Alice patiently inspects the twosome
until she discerns their distinctive, heavily-starched-col-
lars.

Unlike Alice, many inexperienced fishermen and
many landlubbers grow impatient when they stare at ob-

make the right fly for a particular fish, one needs to in-
vestigate exhaustively the nature of the fish and the area
in which it swims. “If you do your own investigating,
you're not only going to have a deeper understanding of
what you are doing, but you'll have a greater apprecia-
tion for the environment in which you are fishing.”
Amen, Amen.

The Lord of the Flies: Andre Puyans consistently ar-
rives 45 minutes late to his flytying class. His pupils —
‘who have included millionaires from Japan and govern-
ment officials from Argentina — do hot mind. For them

jects that seem indistinguishable. They walk into fishing__ the knowledge Andre Puyans has to share is worth the

‘goods stores and inspect the flies: fishhooks carefully

dressed with feathers or tinsel in such a way as to make .
them appear as appetizing insects to hungry fish that are
not easily duped. These inexperienced ‘fishermen and
these landlubbers give up on trying to discern what dis-
tinguishes a dry fly from a wet fly from a nymph from a
bucktail from a terrestrial; and claim in frustration that
all flies are nothing but a bunch of carelessly chosen
feathers wrapped in string. Not true.

According to Andre: Puyans, a master of flytying,
making a fly for a particular fish requires that one under-
stand the Four Commandments, that one give attention
to small detail, and that one have knowledge of the fish’s
characteristics and habitat. The Four Commandments of
flytying are color, size, Shape, and texture. Fish, says
Andre Puyans, “are the most efficient feeding machines
ever created.” Just as the thoughtful reader will refuse to
eat a McDonald’s hamburger that looks, feels or tastes
the slightest bit unusual “a fish is going to reject a fly that
is unusual to him.” Steelhead trout are attracted only to
flies “of the gaudiest damn colors.” If a fly is one sixty-
fourth of an inch too long a sculpin will swim right by it
without ‘giving it a second glance. An Atlantic salmon
will not be fooled by a fly if the fly’s shape does tiot
allow it to move a certain Way through the water. If a
fly’s texture seems unnatural 6 a rainbow trout, it will
spit it out quicker than it takes the average boy to spit out
a piece of liver that his cruel parents force-fed him.

Above all, Andre Puyans believes that in order to

wait. In fact, the progress each one of the pupils will
make during a week-long session of Puyans’s flytying
classes is worth, approximately; seven years of untu-
tored practice. A dim light hangs over Puyans’s work-
bench, which is covered with hundreds of fibers of hair
and hundreds of feathers from animals. Dyed goose tail,
mallard duck quill, mink tail, body feathers from lemon
woodducks, red squirrel tail, feathers from an African
wild turkey that has been extinct for several decades,
and neck feathers from chickens that are raised in
Pennsylvania to specifically meet flytiers’ needs.
Puyans moves his nimble fingers through these hair fib-
ers and feathers until he finds his pipe and his coffee
mug, which is filled to the rim with Brim and Scotch.
Forty-five minutes behind schedule, then, the first
day of class begins. Puyans goes over the Four Com-
mandments with the class. Then, since it is only the first
day of class, he briefly describes the five main groups of
flies. Dry flies imitate insects floating on the water’s
surface. Wet flies resemble drowned insects that are
sinking. Nymphs imitate mayflies, which hatch and
spawn below the surface of the water. Streamers and
bucktails imitate baitfish. Terrestrials resemble ants and
grasshoppers. To perfectly end the first day of class,
Puyans has the pupils gather around his workbench to
observe him tying a perfect dry fly. Right as he is about

~ to begin, his face becomes contorted. Puyans pulls his

pipe from his mouth. Grabs his handkerchief. And
sneezes two or three times. Puyans chuckles warmly and

explains that he is allergic to feathers and fur, the raw
materials of his trade.

The first day of class ends. A half-dozen students
who.are studying to become professional flytiers stay
after class because they want Puyans to explain how he
got started in the flytying business. Again, Puyans
chuckles warmly. He knows that his success story is one
that very few folks are able and willing to emulate. At
the age of nine he contracted polio. His father, Percy
Puyans, knew that Andre loved to fish. So he gave
Andre flytying equipment and offered him this proposi-
tion: How would you like to earn some spending money
by making 144 dozen Governor Paine Boost Maine Spe-
cial flies? The nine-year-old capitalist blindly jumped at
this chance. One-hundred-and- forty-four dozen flies
later, Andre asked his father, Percy, what kinds of spe-
cial fish his special flies were used. to catch. Percy
explained that Governor Paine was not going to use the
flies for fly fishing. Governor Paine was going to use the
flies as campaign buttons to lure and catch undecided
voters.

So ever since he was nine years old, Andre Puyans
has patiently put up with inexperienced fishermen and
landlubbers who are unable to appreciate his flytying
and fly fishing. And though Andre Puyans is consis-
tently 45 minutes late for church on Sundays, he proba-
bly often reads with pride the introductory paragraph of
Maclean’s book A River Runs Through It. Norman Mac-
lean writes: “Our father was a Presbyterian minister and
a fly fisherman who tied flies and taught others. He told
us about Christ’s disciples béing fishermen, and we
were left to assume, as. my brother and I did, that all
first-rate fishermen of the Sea of Galilee were fly fisher-
men and that John, the favorite, was-a dry-fly fisher-
man.” Which reminds me of a beatitude: Blessed are the
flytiers and fly fishermen “whose, deeds go unap-
preciated, for they shall be comforted’

—

Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian
