Opinions

The Davidsonian
Friday, Oc October 10, 1986

=13

—_—

Co-ed eating houses suffer biased view

Mike Stephens

When thumbing through this year’s Wildcat Han-
dbook, a publication designed to “help (freshmen) get a
glimpse of what (they) will need to know when they j join the
rest of us on campus,” I came upon an article by Allen
Compton, 88, titled “Social Life.” Mr. Compton’s article,
though claiming to give an overview of the college/Patter-
son Court social system, presents an extraordinarily limited
view of Patterson Court social life. Based upon Compton’s
observations, the only worthwhile outlets available to the
socially inclined freshman are within the “. . . Patterson
Court fraternity system.”

In Co n’s view, to be'social at Davidson one must
belony to a single-sex eating house. He describes member-
‘ship in such an organization as “exclusive” and “fortu-
nate.” To be fair to Mr. Compton, he does include the all-
female eating houses in the “fraternity” system. He never
once refers to the self-selection process, preferring instead
the term “rush,” and he declares that “there are two houses
on the court with open membership. ” While Compton pre-
sents a widely accepted view of the Davidson social pic-
ture, his presentation of co-ed dining on Patterson Court is,
in a word, wrong.

When Davidson adopted the system of self-selection in
the early 1970’s, membership in Patterson Court houses no
longer prescribed to the traditional system of rush/bid. The
college began accepting women for enrollment, and the
Court had to change to include them. With the change, sev-
eral houses were forced off the Court, with SPE and FI
moving off campus and Beta, Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Phi
and others dissolving their Dayidson chapters.

Instead of continuing a segregation-by-sex policy m all
the houses, five co-ed eating houses came into being, all of
which were functioning until spring of 1982 — EMA-
NON, PAX, F&M, ATO, and ETC. I do not know the
exact histories of Rusk and Warner Hall, though their rise
necessarily accompanied the inclusion_of females on the
court. Most of you know the rest of the story, or at least
those of you who do not rely on Allen Compton’s mis-
guided article for your information. In order, ETC, ATO,
and F&M closed down their operations. Spencer, now oc-
cupying the old F&M house, formerly the Kappa Sigma
house, came into being after ATO, F&M and ETC closed.

Emanon and PAX, then, are the last vestiges of a once-

~~ —Thank-you-Davidson

Kathleen Caldwell

As I reflect upon the last three years at Davidson, I am
grateful for all :that I have learned. Yes, even taking
chemistry has added to my Davidson experience. In addi-
tion, the extracurricular activities and lasting friendships
that have been formed have made these three years the best
of my life. It was last year, however, in which some very
special people shared with me, and other Davidson stu-
dents, what cannot be found in textbooks or everyday life.

« I speak of Leslie Hill-Davidson who, in her class on
“Black Women in the Americas,” showed me that, yes,
black women have contributed to this world. They were
politicians, writers, doctors, lawyers and much more. Why
was I not aware of this before? Because their song has gone
unsung. for so many years. History textbooks tend to leave
out the contributions of blacks and even more so, black
women. If this realization makes me angry, frustrated, and
confused, I can only imagine what it does to black women.
I am grateful to Leslie for opening my eyes to something I
needed to see.

I also speak of Karen Jones-Meadows, a vivacious,
‘Charming woman who taught my theater seminar spring

teri. She provided: me-with the opportunity to explore the —ditorium, ‘shared some awesome moments from their ex--————

role of black women.as portrayed in drama. from the first

powerful sector of Patterson Court. College Archivist, Dr:
Davidson told me that in the early stages of self-selection,
the trend seemed so strong toward small group co-ed dining
that the college somewhat expected the death-knell of the
fraternities altogether. At present, less than 120 people are
active members in PAX and Emanon. Part of the reason can
only be attributed to the prevalence of attitudes such as Mr.
Compton’s.

I am sorry Allen, but co-ed dining is not merely the
final option for “. . . those guys who did not get into a
fraternity.” (I guess he means as well “girls who did not get
into Rusk, Warner Hall or Spencer.”) Emanon and: PAX
are not only alive on the Davidson campus, but vital to its
social well-being. While one who comes to Davidson with
the “rush” mentality may not find small group co-ed dining
appealing, I can assure you that the activities and attitudes
of those selecting Emanon or PAX are not so disgustingly
limited and mundane as you imply in your article. Granted,
the capital outlay for alcoholic beverages for PAX and
Emanon combined does not equal that of SAE (nor does it
come close), but theré is more to Davidson social! life than
Hattie’s Night and champagne at the Breakfast Club.

4

Emanon and PAX are not filled

with . . . the “unfortunate” who do
not manage to secure a fraternity bid.

é

Speaking as a senior eating at Emanon, I want to dispel
a few myths. Co-ed dining at Davidson College is not, as
one unnamed hall counselor of last year instructed his
freshmen, “social death.” (Yes, I ‘know that they aren’t
supposed to say things like that.) As a general rule, there is
some sort of organized social activity at least once and usu-
ally twice a week at both Emanon and PAX. That these ac- -
tivities do not universally provide alcoholic refreshment
and high decibel auditory stimulation does not make them
any less enjoyable. As a matter of fact, coherent conversa-
tion at a normal speaking level has distinct advantages over
more primitive forms of communication such as body sig-
nals and smell. _—_____.

Emanon and PAX are not filled with, to use Compton’s
phrase, the ‘unfortunate’ who. do not manage to secure a
fraternity bid. My housemates and I actually wanted to eat
at Emanon. As a matter of fact, most of us observed the
fraternity system and selected against it. There is no great
mystery here. We wanted small group dining, and we
wanted to eat and socialize with members of the opposite -

day of class, her enthusiasm was contagious. I leamed a
great deal from the plays and other literature I read.
Through dramatic dialogue, black playwrights have pro-
vided vivid illustrations of the lives of black women. Al-
though I knew Karen for only a short while, her love and
appreciation for theater added a great deal to my Davidson
experience.

Paula Giddings, now one of my heroines (in addition to
Zora Neale Hurston), is another special person. She came
to Davidson on March 17 and shared with some of us her
experience of writing When and Where I Enter — The Im-
pact of Black Women on Race and Sex in America. She is an

intelligent, poised, and inspiring woman who, in her book,

related the contributions of black women from slavery to
the present. It is she who shared with me the memorable
words of Anna Julia Cooper spoken in_1892: “Only the
Black Woman can say ‘when and where | enter, in the
quiet, undisputed dignity of my womanhood, without vio-
lence and without suing or special patronage, then and
there the whole . . . race enters with me.’”

" Finally, I speak of Wallace Terry, Porter Halyburton,
and Fred Cherry who, one Thursday night in Love Au-_

periences ‘in Vietnam. I thoroughly enjoyed Wallace

sex. Emanon and PAX are not poor imitations of the Vail
Commons, nor do we try to be. We are Patterson Court eat-
ing houses, composed of people who ate with us, spoke
with us, partied with us and decided to join us as members.
Small group cd-ed dining on Patterson Court has a distinc-

-tive flavor which sets it apart from both the Vail. Commons
and the single-sex eating houses. ;

In the past, mind you only in the recent past, the mem-
bers of co-ed houses have been subjected to stereotyping.
ETC, ATO, and F&M died of this affliction, to some ex-
tent, and it has undoubtedly affected the palatability of
PAX: and Emanon. There is no co-ed type. We have had. .
under our respective roofs SGA officers, several recipients

of first: and second academic honors, Rhodes scholars,
YSSC_ members and officers, Watson Fellowship reci-
pients, APO, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Pi Sigma, SCA and
ODK members, ROTC personnel, members of the David- _
son Peace Coalition, Officers of the Philanthropic and
Eumenean Societies, DCF, TUF and IV co-ordinators and
small group leaders, representatives of the Chapel Com-
mittee, DERS and Davidson Rape Crisis, intramural flic-
kerball, softball, voileyball and basketball teams, members
of the honor council, the College Bowl team, Women’s .
Concerns Committee, Editors of The Davidsonian, Honor
graduates from every major . . . we’ve probably even had
a few alcoholics. We participate in the SGA phonathon,
Town Day, Ada Jenkins Day and the Crop Walk. Almost
no campus organization cannot produce at least a few of our
members.

}

Co-ed dining at Davidson is not dying out, or at least
not as long as we can still offer the Davidson students :
something they want or need. For the newcomers to David-
son College, I welcome you in the name of small group co-
ed dining and invite you to dinner whenever you choose.
The single-sex scene at Davidson has a lot to offer, but
Emanon and PAX are great in their own right. The Wildcat
Handbook, otherwise a fine publication, should have been
more careful than to have let such a skewed article slip by.
The Court truly is the heartbeat of the college, and Emanon
and PAX do not represent a cardio-vascular disease. Please
take Allen Compton’s advice not to “ . . . settle for the
opinions and prejudices of others.” Disregard his article.

tet

Stephens is a senior philosophy major from Media PA. .

Terry’s talk as it was both informative and entertaining;
‘however, it was when Porter Halyburton spoke that was
especially moved. As he shared with us his experience in a
Vietnamese POW camp I cried, not just because of what he _
endured, but for the further implications of his story. He
shared a cell with Fred Cherry, a black man, for a number
of years and in that time sustained what little life Cherry
had left after continual torture.

Why did I cry? Because of what it takes to bring blacks
and whites together in brotherhood and harmony. We can’t
extend the hand of love and friendship across racial bound-
aries within our own country in times of peace. No. We
have to wait until thousands of your young. men are sent,

~against their will, to a foreign country to fight against for-
eign people. We have to wait until, by chance, two men are
thrown into the same cell of the same POW camp.-Only

“then can we look beyond the color of our skin and see what
‘is truly important: we are all-human beings, one and the
same, and we need each other regardless of race or any
other superficial difference. Thank you, Davidson, for
bringing these people to share something very special with
us.

fs

Kathleen Caldwell, senior Tor history major Richmond, VA
