10

Friday, October 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager |
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, F eatures Editor Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
- Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Edit

~The Court

As of last night, the five-week moratorium on freshmen going to Pat-

terson Court functions is over. Freshmen no longer need to abandon
campus on weekends or plan yet another mixer to have a weekend party.
_ From now on, Class of 1990, you can go to college parties. —

In light of these new privileges being given to freshmen we felt a te-
view of the new Patterson Court policy and some advice to the newest
participants in the Court were in order.

No matter how much the upperclassmen wanted the freshmen on the
Court and.no matter how much the freshmen wanted to be on the Court,
the prohibition must be considered a success except for the fact that it
lasted too long. In an April 18, 1986 editorial The Davidsonian recom-

mended a three-week ban on freshmen going to Patterson Court func-
tions. We stand by that recommendation. We feel the other goals —
freshmen hall and class unity, an acquaintance with college life, a good

academic start — were achieved this fall, but that they had been reached

after three weeks.

One complaint against Self-Selection is that feelings are hurt when
students (especially the men) aren’t able to eat at the house of their

choice. In an attempt to help avoid anyone’s feelings being stepped on,
here is some advice to help freshmen enjoy Patterson Court 1986-87.

1) When you go to parties, meet as many upperclassmen as possible.
This is paramount to picking and joining the right house for you. Simply
put, the more members of a house you know, the better chance you have

of choosing a good house and, in the case of fraternitites, getting that all-
important “oral encouragement.”

2) After you’ ve met members of a house you are interested in joining,
get these people to take you to as many meals as possible. Though few
people choose a house for its food, by sampling the atmosphere and de-
licacies of a house meal you can find out what the next three years of
breakfast, lunch and dinner will be like. More importantly, it’s easier to
meet house members at a sedate meal as opposed to the dark, loud,
crowded and intoxicated setting of a party. Eating meals also lets you po-

tential pledges show a serious interest in a particular house.

3) For the men, if you want to join a fraternity, you must immediately
accept the fact that fraternities are exclusive and competitive in attracting
members. Bids are not impossible-to get, but do require a serious effort.

_If you hear a fraternity you are interested in has sent out invitations to a

_ private party and you didn’t get one, talk to a member of that house as .

soon as possible to make sure they know you ‘are interested. Don’t let
yourself get lost in the rush.

Above all else, enjoy yourself. Patterson Court has a great deal of fun

and friends to offer for those willing to jump in and get involved.

Cloudt’s View

Letters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustess of Davidaon College. -

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura
- Gabel.
Features Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, | cus Har-
grove, Steve Mank.
Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Cosgibe: Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wil-
kins
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Alex Hayden, Ken Jones, Kyong
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.
Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall,
Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kim Robertson, Ibby Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wil-
' kins, Ben Yarbrough. 2 :
Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey

“nity.”

Freshmen

To the Editors: :

So freshmen! You thought your big de-
cisions were over when you chose David-
son as your college, right? Surprise! Thurs-
day night began the process for your next
big decision: Where are you going to eat
next year? If you read Mike Stephens’ arti-
cle in the Oct.-10 Opinions section, you
might be thinking this task more difficult

_than it actually is. He is concerned with the
“biased views” expressed in Allen Com-,

pton’s article, yet Mr. Stephens’. article is

extremely biased as well. Weare sorry, Mr

Stephens, but single-sex houses have more
to offer than high-level alcohol consump-
tion, loud music, “body signals and smell.”

eating house, she automatically becomes a
member of that house. There is neither
rushing nor bids, and many Davidson
women will cite this advantage as a major
reason for their enrollment here.

In our opinion, Mr. Stephens article
serves to increase biases against all types of
houses rather than to neutralize any of
them. As the freshmen will soon discover,
each eating house. has a unique flavor, but —
many of the stereotypes about them are
wrong. Emanon and PAX are equal to any

~ other house on Patterson Court and do not

”

One also does not have to drink alcohol to.

join any house on the court. Indeed, frater-

'- nities and. all-women’s eating houses offer

small-group dining in much the same way

~ that.Emanon and PAX do. Although Mr.

Stephens makes a good attempt to dispel
myths about the co-ed eating houses, one
might think he “dost protest too much.” Un-
fortunately, freshmen may even be turned
off by some of the disgusting and incredibly

. biased things he writes.

Mr. Stephens does make one very good
observation about a fallacy in Allen Com-
pton’s article. That is, co-ed houses are not
“for those guys who do not get into a frater-
However, Mr. Stephens fails to em-
phasize that there are five (yes, five) eating
houses with open memberships. At one
point, he blatantly implies that a Davidson
woman must “get into” Rusk, Warner Hall
or Spencer. This is clearly wrong, because

if a freshwoman self-selects an all-women’s

need to be defended in such a vindictive
manner. Before the'class of 1990 truly be-
gins to experience Patterson Court, perhaps

+ ‘at would be healthy for each member of

évery eating house to examine their own

‘biases against other houses. We are all-

Davidson students, but moreover, we are

all human beings. Let us start thinking of
each other in that way!

Sharon Spong, Member of PAX

Kathy Lee, Member of Rusk

Hall Counselors

Fhanks

To the Editors:

I know I speak for: many ae when I
express thanks to Bilal el-Amine ('87),
Ruth Pittard, and all of the students on the
College Union's International Committee
for their work. in putting together the highly
successful International Festival on Oct. 4,
It was a job well done.

William K. Mahony
Department of Religion
