2

Friday, October 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ne ews Shorts _ |

Incidents reported during the month of September.

6 Larcenies: total value $1,185
Hit and Run: damage to vehicle $700.00
Hit and Run: damage to vehicle $400.00
Damage to Property $450.00
Damage to Property $75.00 __

Campus Security asks that you lock your door, park your car properly, and
report vandalism and false alarms.

Campus Security responded to eight fire alarms at Belk and one at Sentelle.
All were false alarms caused by someone either pulling the box or setting off a
smoke bomb. Anyone who sets off a false alarm or tampers with the alarm sys-
tem is guilty of violating the N.C. Penal Code and may be charged with a mis-
demeanor and may be imprisoned up to six months or fined $500, or both.

The Police Hot Line outside the Security office is not just for emergencies.
This phone may be used anytime the officer on duty is not in the office.

e

Jody Minus and security officer Rick Moore contributed to this article

Retirement community breaks ground

The Pines at Davidson, a non-profit continuing care retirement community,
broke ground Sunday for its development located on Pine Road.

Comprising 47 acres, the development will consist of 181 residential apart-
ments and a 60-bed nursing facility. The Pines will offer several levels of care,
from skilled nursing, intermediate care, and assisted living. within its health cen-
ter to independent residence in its three-story central building and ten duplex
cottages. The proposed building will provide housing for approximately 320

Marketed by Spectrum Marketing Inc. , a Gastonia-based firm specializing
in non-profit continuing care retirement communities, the Pines has received re-
servations for 105 units. Of the future residents of these confirmed reserved
units, 75-80 percent currently live within a 25-mile radius of Davidson.

According to Spectrum Vice-President and marketing Director of the Pines
Bobby Sumner, Davidson College Presbyterian Church decided to raise initial
seed money for the development. Contributions now total $1,700,000 and the
fund-raising campaign continues, he said.

Asked why Davidson was chosen as the site for the pines, Sumner cited the
character of the town and college and proximity to Lake Norman and Charlotte.

The Pines will provide 130 jobs, including many student positions, Sumner
said. He hopes to work closely with the college and institute a foster grandparent
program at the Pines.

Material contributed by Nelle McCorkle.

Tool shed thief apprehended

Davidson town police arrested a 27-year-old Cornelius area man and
charged him with breaking and entering and larceny following a tool theft at the
college carpentry shop late Saturday night or early Sunday morning.

Currently being held at Mecklenburg County Jail on $15,000 bond, suspect
Ernest Sloan awaits trial.

Police have recovered most of the stolen tools, valued at $1690.

College carpentry employees discovered the break-in Sunday upon finding a
broken pane in the carpentry shop’s door. The shop is located beneath the foot-
ball stadium.

people.

John Crosland Company and Rogers Builders will begin construction, ex-

pected to be completed during March 1988.
Receiving no government funding, the Pines will depend on charitable con-

tributions. to supplement the cost of its maintenance. A-30-member non-profit
Board of Directors will govern the development.

_ According to college Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes increased secu-

the carpentry shop door.

Material contributed by Nelle McCorkle

rity measures following the theft consist of planned installation of wire glass in

Continued from page |!

The heat was estimated to be 1600
degrees Celsius, a temperature
hard to reach without a flamet-
hrower, she speculated.
Interregional cooperation and
assaults on the drug trafficking
‘have helped, Sevillano said, but
“the situation is more complex
than previously ‘thought. Sanc-
tions will only damage U.S. inter-

ests.” Sevillano instead advocated__did note that a Bolivian revolt in — you two yearsin jail atleast.”

both unconditional economic aid
and direct intervention by U.S.
forces such as the Coast Guard
and .the Drug _ Enforcement

countries involved.”

In response to whether a
crackdown. would harm United
States banking interests due to the
increased inability of the Latin

American governments to pay -

their foreign debts, Sevillano re-
marked that drug traffickers have
in the past offered to pay the exter-
nal debts of each country, but
were officially turned down. She

1980, if successful, would have
been a “cocaine coup.”

where better than the drug trade?”
she asked:

“They take the money to -get
arms, and give the drug smugglers
freedom to operate. It unifies
crime with Russian interests.”

Interestingly enough, Sevil-
lano remarked, drug use in the re-
gion is still limited. “In Peru, pos-
session of, say, .001 gram will get

One form rising fast in the re-
gion, she said, is the use of pitos,

A_controversial observation— which is the smoking of unrefined

Agency.The United States at pre-
sent forbids itself to offer arms to
the drug war abroad.
Cooperation between the con-
sumer and producer countries is

the only way to effectively deal eni

with the scene, Sevillano said.
“The cocaine lords have better
equipment than the armies of the

Happy Homecoming Alumni & Grads!

questioned later in the period fol-
lowing the talk was Sevillano’s
assertion that much of the “nar-
coterrorism” in the region is
caused by the “marriage of con-

“Maoist” insurgent groups such as
the Shining Path. “They have to
get their money somewhere, and

Box Lunches available for
the Football game on Saturday

~_ Come’by for a snack

frozen yogurt * sandwiches

beverages *& “snacks -
Downtown Davidson

coca paste. The users get a

cocaine high, but havé also in-
gested the keroséne used in the
treatment and numerous other car-
cinogens. “You see 16 year olds

blue lips.” The refined product is
shipped up north, “and they get
what is left.”

Although the United States’
increasingly popular “crack” form
of cocaine gives a more potent
high with less actual substance, in
theory lessening demand, Sevil-
lano stated that she considers any
new use of the drug to be an ex-
pansion of the drug trade. “Crack”
is also highly addictive, she said.

Sevillano first came to Char-
lotte as a senior in high ‘school.

She spent her senior year in.
Shelby, and. went back to Peru to

earn a degree at the University of

—Trujillo, where she was a political

science major. She later earned a
law degree in the footsteps of her
father, who was a Peruvian jurist
and served on the Peruvian Su-
preme Court.

Sprinkled throughout Sevil-
lano’s talk were statistics concern-

ing the drug trade and drug abuse.

An estimated 5,000 people in the
U.S. use cocaine for the first time
every day. The dollar value of
Latin American drug trading is
$100 billion, all of it from the
United States. The cocaine busi-
ness is relatively new, dating only
to the late 1970s, and Peru and

- Bolivia produce 90 percent of the

world’s coca. In 1983, 58 to 79
tons were produced, and the
. Mumber has gone up one-third
each year since. Coca plants are
hardy perennials that are ready for
harvest after their first.six months
and can be harvested every three
months thereafter for thirty years.

Sevillano summed up. and
urged the United States to “unite
our forces to take action and fight

ience”-—between—_leftist; —on the streets with gray faces andthe war on the domestic front, itr

the hearts and the minds of the
people.”

Keep up with
the times!
Dorm or Home Delivery

of the
Sunday New_York Times
Contact Georgia Ringle

for details at

892-8048 or P.O.Box 496

$3.50

