tr

Wednesday, December 1% 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

- Election Results

The following are winners%m yesterday's elections.
Union President: James Eric Whytsell (unapposed)
Union Social VP: Allen Compton (unapposed)

Union Co-Curricular VP: Sarah Merritt (unapposed)

YSSC President: Reed Herrero (unapposed)
YSSC VP: John Coleman
Davidsonian Editors: Mark Chen and Keith Finch(JY A) (unapposed)
Wildcat Handbook Editors: Beth Drummond and Beth Bryson (unapposed)
Student Solicitors: Chip Whittman, Peter Wright, and Rob Zimmerman

The following offices will have run off elections today;,
Freshman Advisors: Bob Boyd/Sharon Spong and Anthony McCarron/Gretchen
Schoel
Defense Advisors: Don Collins/Caryn Coppedge/Grant Morain and Laura Fan-
nin/Chuck Harris

Hendrix announces resignation

Director of Admissions Dr. James P. Hendrix, Jr. announced his registration
last week because of personal reasons.

He will remain at Davidson until July !. Hendrix has accepted the position of
‘headmaster at Ravenscroft High School in Raleigh and will begin work there

next fall.

“ The Admissions Director said he had come to Davidson first because he be-
lieves a person should continually seek to further his education, second because

‘Beyond Davidson

of his love for his alma mater, and third because of his respect for President
Kuykendall.

“I have enjoyed my work here,” said Hendrix. “I want to make sure every-
one knows how much I regret leaving.”

Material contributed by Ed Matthews

Seniors night

The “Seniors Only Night” party for the Class of 1987 will be held tonight.
The evening’s highlights will include the announcement of the seniors’ choice of
a class gift and a talent show featuring replays from the 1983 Freshman Talent
Show.

Master of Ceremonies Edin Douglass will introduce the various performers
in the talent show. Mark Swift, a pianist, will present a piece by Debussy. Lanier
Alexander has prepared a ventriloquist act. Allen Futral and George Guise, back
by popular demand, will revive their ’83 act, “The Freshman Blues.” Jackie
Daugherty is planning to do a poetry reading, and Dudley Bell and Scott Saye -
will sing-and play guitars. Chris Wood, a unicyclist, will perform a juggling and
cycling act. Liz Carlton plans to sing. \

Several seniors are trying to organize a clogging routine, but this act may or
may not materialize. Finally, the now very familiar Bobby Houck will once
again sing and play his guitar on the stage where he gained his campus wide

fame.
4

Material contributed by Susan Pearsall -

Iran scandal deepens. Filipinos gain cease-fire

By DAVID WILLIAMS
Headlining events for the week Dec.
1-17:

: Around the World — White House
and State Department officials revealed
that the United States has been periodi-
cally supplying Iraq with military intelli-
gence about Iran to help Iraq avoid defeat
by Iran in the six-year war.

Meanwhile, President Reagan as-
sured Congress that he had no knowledge
about the diversion of funds to the
Nicaraguan contras from the sale of arms
to Iran. €.1.A.: Director William Casey
testified for more than five hours about
the C.I.A.’s role in the arms deal in a
closed session. Representative William

_some of the profits from arms sales to

Iran were diverted by North to such right-
wing pressure groups.

Israeli jets staged their first attack in
two months on rebel bases in Northern
Lebanon, killing six people and wound-
ing 20. The Abu Nidal guerrilla group
vowed to strike back at Israel to avenge
the death of a commander killed in the at-
tacks.

More than 53 people were killed and
310 were injured in heavy ethnic rioting
between Pathans and Mohajirs in
Karachi, Pakistan. In Colombo, Sri
Lanka, at least 25 guerrillas of the Tamil
separatist movement were killed in fight-
ing between rival rebel groups.

Broomfield (R--Mich-) said it appeared————— In a major policy reversal, the Hon-

that the agency had made “serious errors
of judgment” regarding the diversion of
funds.

Former Federal Judge Lawrence
Walsh was said to be the leading candi-
date to become the independent counsel
in the investigation of the Iran arms sales.

Evidence began to ‘mount that White.

House Chief: of Staff Donald Regan
would resign this week over the arms
controversy. But Regan testified for five
hours before the Senate Intelligence
“Committee Tuesday that he plans no res-
ignation and had no knowledge of the di-
version of money to the contras.
Meanwhile, informants said Lt. Col.
Oliver North had assisted a conservative
political action committee this year to de-
feat Congressional opponents of military

aid to the Nicaraguan rebels. The F.B.I. .

said it plans to look into allegations that

duran government said it will attack any
Nicaraguan troops who cross the Hondu-
ran border in search of anti-Sandinista re-
bels. Meanwhile, a Nicaraguan appeals
court confirmed the sentence of Eugene
Hasenfus to 30 years in prison for helping
fly weapons to the contras. Nicaraguan

. authorities said they have captured and

detained another American, Sam Nesley
Hall, on suspicion of espionage.

Foreign ministers of NATO proposed
atwo-tiered set of negotiations with War-
saw Pact nations to replace the current
Vienna talks and to negotiate the reduc-
tion of conventional forces. in all of
Europe.

House Democrats approved a resolu-
tion requiring the United States to main-
tain the limits of the 1979 SALT treaty
that the Reagan administration breached
this month. -American arms negotiator
l

Max M: Kampelman warned the Soviets

in Geneva that the U.S. Presidency has"

not been “-weakened has not been
weakened because of the Iranian arms af-
fair. ~

The first cease-fire in the Philippines
in seventeen years went into effect last
Wednesday, but Filipinos remained wary
as communist guerrillas later marched
into the town of Samal and chanted revo-
lutionary slogans. President Corazon
Aquino and her cabinet took measures to
prevent the return,of former President
Ferdinand Marcos to the Philippines to

attend the funeral of his sister, who died _-

Sunday.

The South African government con-
tinued to impose tighter restrictions on
political dissent and on news reporting
about the nation’s black revolt. South Af-
rican authorities said they had shot and
killed a suspected insurgent from the Af-
rican National Congress.

Across the Nation — The Reagan
administration proposed major changes
in the nation’s welfare system that would
give state and local governments much

‘more power in determining the recipients .

of welfare payments. Administration of-
ficials also said they had ruled out a plan
proposed by Secretary of Health and
Human services Otis Bowen to expand
Medicare to cover lengthy hospital stays
in return for an annual premium of $59.
Presidential advisors also recommended
substantial salary increases for Federal
judges, members of Congress, and exec-
utive branch officials.
The Supreme Court paved the \ way

for independents to participate in primary
elections by ruling 5-4 that states cannot
limit voting in primaries only to those
who have previously enrolled in a politi-
cal party:

The Energy Department announced
that the nuclear reactor in Hanford,
Washington, which has key similarities
to the Chernobyl reactor, will be shut
down six months for safety improve- |
ments.

In Economic Headlines — In what
may be one of the biggest mergers in
banking history, The Chemical Bank an-
nounced it had agreed to acquire the
Houston-based Texas Commerce Bank
for nearly $1.19 billion. The Supreme
Court ruled 6-2 that a company cannot
challenge a merger in court solely be-
cause it “is faced with a threat of losses
from increased competition.”

Securities and Bxchange Commis- °
sion (S.E.C.) officials testified before
Congress that Ivan Boesky was allowed
to pay off $1.4 billion in debt through the
sale of stocks and other activities while
negotiating an insider-trading settlement
with the S.E.C.

Industrial output rose by 0.6 percent—
in November, the biggest increase since
April. Analysts said the increase may
have been spurred more by transactions
inspired by the new tax law, rather than’
by an acceleration of the economy. Retail
sales rose 0.5 percent in November after
a record 5.2 percent drop in October.
Meanwhile, mortgage rates declined for
the third consecutive month to a 10.34"
percent average rate for fixed-rate loans,

:
i DWe nce Y'7R
