Friday, April 25, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

— 9

Davidson should not support Gay movement

Grant Morain

The Davidsonian of April 18 contained an advertise-
ment alluding to the formation of a Gay Support Group.
This group is to be established on a confidential basis and is
sponsored by the Office of the Chaplain, the College
Union, and the Housing Office. The ad reads, “Concerned
students and faculty are forming a support/social group to
meet the needs of the Gay Community at Davidson Col-
lege.” I have no doubt that the gay people at Davidson need
or want support; however, I question the appropriateness of
the college’s involvement in such an organization.

According to Crime and Criminology by Sue Titus
Reid, most states have statutes prohibiting sodomy, specif-
ically buggery (intercourse between a man and another
man). North Carolina laws prohibit “crimes against nature”
and categorize them as class H felonies. Such crimes
against nature include homosexuality. The punishment for
such as act is imprisonment for a maximum of ten years
and/or a fine. Is this law obsolete? Probably. Nonetheless,
it is a law. Davidson faculty, however, insist on helping
people who by their own admission are gay. True, being

gay is not against the law, the homosexual act is; however,
one naturally follows the other. Should we look for our ad-
ministrators to next form a Rapist Support group or a Van-
dal Support Group?

Davidson College’s “Statement of Purpose” contains
the following words: “Since Davidson's founding the ties
which bind the College to the Presbyterian Church have re-
mained close and strong. It is the desire of all concerned
that this vital relationship be continued in the future, to the
mutual advantage of church and school.” Davidson is “a
college committed to the historic Christian faith.” In that
vein, Leviticus 18:22 reads, “You shall not lie with a male
as with a woman. It is an abomination.” This is a strong
condemnation of homosexuality by the “historic Christian
faith.” Yet the Office of the Chaplain takes an active role in
the new organization.

In February 7 issue of The Davidsonian an anonymous
article stated, “Gays at Davidson . . . lack support be-
cause we are never able to get together. This is a problem
because . . . we need to talk to each other and share our
feelings and problems. We need to be assured that we
aren’t the only person in the world with these feelings, that
we are not alone. Yet, there is no way to do this at Davidson
because of the recrimination that would occur if it were
even attempted.” Well, now the support will be available.

And here is the recrimination. I am able to accept indepen-
dent individual offerings, but Davidson College should not
provide support for unlawful acts which are in direct oppos-
ition to its statement of purpose. Specifically, I question
those members of the Davidson administration and staff
who are forming this organization. What do you perceive
as being your role? In offering support are you condoning
homosexuality or acknowledging it as a fact of Davidson
life? If you agree with it, [humbly submit that you should
re- evaluate your position at Davidson. If you are merely
acknowledging the fact that gays exist, you should not offer
your support under the guise of a Davidson organization.

The article of February 7 also states, “Davidson is the
worst place on Earth to come out.” To the gays who feel
this way, I suggest you find a school without ties to the
church in a state without laws prohibiting such activity. In
the meantime look for your support elsewhere. To those
who are willing to offer such support, please do so on your
own time without representing Davidson College in the
process.

Morain is a sophomore from Canfield, OH

Student condemns Apartheid

Jay Barron

Early Saturday moming, April 19, our school lost
something very important and equally unique. Unfortu-
nately, nobody knew it was gone because nobody had seen
it. For five hours, a simple, makeshift monument to suffer-
ing and injustice paradoxically shared Chambers lawn with
our main administrative building, a place in which students
have traditionally enjoyed freedom of opinion. The fragile
cardboard and wooden shanty, built to represent the
wretched poverty that exists today in South Africa, “really
looked like a pile of junk,” according to college spokesman
Jerry Stockdale. Obviously. The shanty was meant as a
statement, not a work of art.

Campus shantytowns certainly aren’t a new phenome-
non. At Dartmouth, Brown, and other schools, shanties
have periodically appeared in protest against the “Apar-
theid” policies in South Africa, and these disgracefully
shabby huts have proven effective in drawing media cover-
age and international attention. As symbols of racism and
bigotry, they have demonstrated a physical reality of South

African life for millions. Yet, with all the publicity the
South African cause has received, it should not be treated
merely as a bandwagon campaign for bleeding heart liber-
als and image-conscious rock stars. The system is an af-
front to basic human rights, as well as the very ideals Amer-
icans hold most dear: freedom, justice, and equality. Can
the freedom we enjoy allow us to support such a system?
Have economic interests blurred our moral priorities?
Apartheid is wrong, and we must be willing to admit this
without hesitation or reservation.

More often than not, Davidson students cannot feel the
pain that exists in our world, and as a result, no motivation
exists for becoming involved in world affairs. Ours is one
of ivory tower intellectualism in its truest form. Just before
our shanty was taken down, a grounds crew worker asked
what the shack would accomplish. ‘We're just trying to
alert people to the racist policies in South Africa,” we said,
to which he replied, “But you don’t live in South Africa.”
Incredibly, this attitude seems very popular at Davidson,
and it reflects American support of apartheid that exists in
the form of disinterest. Yet isolation is no excuse for
apathy.

Nevertheless, the question persists. Why concer our-

selves with people thousands of miles from our own shores,
especially since South African whites have created afflu-
ence on an impoverished continent? Arguably, South Afri-
can blacks who live under apartheid are better off finan-
cially than many Africans. In fact, many American busi-
ness interests derive more benefits from the present system
than would ever be possible if apartheid were to break
down. So why must apartheid be abolished?

The answer is quite simple. In effect, apartheid, strife,
bigotry, racism, and hatred are all synonymous. In a coun-
try where the potential for freedom exists, that potential
should be realized. No nation should have the right to
develop economic interests at the expense of human rights.
The situation is an oppressive one that exploits the poverty
of the blacks rather than providing an opportunity for
mutual prosperity. A similar situation existed in nineteenth
century American slavery. Just as modern slavery would be
completely unacceptable, apartheid must be seen as a
shameful, outdated institution.

Barron is a freshman from Tuscaloosa, AL

Feminism struggles for everyone

Sarah Smith

I am writing in response to the article “Putting the
feminist mess to rest,” by Kenneth Bogert. Kenneth, you
said that your aim in the article was to “put the mess about
feminism to rest.” However, in your article, I did not see a
“feminist mess” either defined or put to rest. What I saw
were some confused, self-admitted misconceptions. I was
not offended, nor am I asking for an apology. I only want to
clear up some of the ideas you seem to be confused about.
Maybe I won’t cause you to look at the issues differently,
but I think that it is illogical to persist in an opinion that you
admit is based on misconceptions.

Kenneth you are right that Equal Rights will benefit ev-
eryone. Women are not the “same” as men, but if you look
at it in those terms, no one is ‘the same” as anyone else. We
all have our differences and feminists are not trying to deny
those differences. We do not want to be the “same” as men.
We just do not want to be penalized in any way because we
are women.

Feminism is the struggle for equal rights. It has been
defined as ‘an organized movement for the attainment of
the political, economic, and social equality of the sexes;”
i.e. The Equal Rights Movement. I have never heard some-
one who advocates such a philosophy called an Equal
Rights Movementist, such people are called feminists and
their philosophy is called feminism. _

All feminists are not the “same.” I think that it is very
dangerous to put all feminists in a box and tie it up with a

ribbon. People can not be labeled and categorized that eas-
ily. For example, it would be unfair to make unflattering
generalizations about certain fraternities because of the ex-
ploits of the more visible of their members. It would be un-
fair even if I had observed the behavior because there are
probably many more members of that fraternity who do not
subscribe to that behavior, who are not visible, than those I
have seen. Please don’t cut and dry feminism because of
your observations of a few women.

4

It is very dangerous to.put all
feminists in a box and tie it up with a
ribbon

I do not think that women have ever lost sight of the “re-
sponsibilities” that equality will give them. Women have
been responsible for seeing that their families are fed, rais-
ing children alone, making sure that their husbands finish
college . . . I could go back in history and find many,
many examples of the incredible responsibilities that
women have had because they did not have equality.

Kenneth, you are correct that we have not openly lob-
bied for the “rights” to be drafted, to pay alimony, and to
hold the door open for men. However, I think that you
chose to ignore some basic realities.

It is against the law for women to be drafted. It is also

against the law for women to be allowed in active combat.
Women did not make these laws, but at least with the latter
women have lobbied for the right to fly fighter planes and
even be included in the infantry. No, we have not lobbied
for the draft, but our hope is that we will never go to war.
Why should we lobby for something with which we do not
agree?

Women do pay alimony and child support. Instances of
women paying alimony are rare because there are so few
women who make more than their husbands. I recently
talked to a Davidson man who said that he would never
marry a woman who made more than he did. Obviously,
this man would not be willing to quit school in order to put
his wife through college. Women who are economically
equal to men are already taking on the responsibilities that
their economic position allows.

Why does it matter who holds the door for whom? |
know very few women who will let a door slam in a man’s
face or who will wait by a door until a man comes to open it.
Holding doors for people is common courtesy, it is not a
duty or burden.

Kenneth, I too am looking for a future of equality for
everyone. However, until that time, we need to continue
the feminist movement or at least continue the movement
“promoting political, economic, and social equality of the
sexes.” Please feel free to call feminism the “Movement for
Equal Rights” and to call feminists “Equal Rights
Movementists.” Their meanings are the same.

Smith is a junior from Raleigh, NC -
