By MADAME KARMA NORRABI
_ YAJISHI
ARIES (Mar. 21 — April 19)
Your mate is no longer impressed
with your childish pranks and will leave
you unless you prove. your intellect and

hinvher. Your lucky fruit is the mango.
TAURUS (April 20 — May'20)

hand lately, but take heart! With a little
cunning, some patience and a‘smattering

come the adversity. Finally, don’t wear
your “Hard Rock” t-shirt .this week
' "cause people are really getting sick ‘of
that stuff.

GEMINI (May 21 — June 20)

It is wholly apparent that this mar-
riage is no longer in your best interest! As
for your new puppy (kitten, gopher or
bunny), it is in grave peril as a large load
o’bricks (cément mixer, crack terrorist
unit, Jesse Helms) will strike this very

_ CANCER (June 21 -— July 22)
Don’t let the fact that your sign is also
the name of a horrible disease dismay

maturity. Take hostages. That'll impress.

The fates have dealt you a difficult

of warning-label. music you’ can over-

week, squishing it. Hey, the stars said it!

. you. You have books to read, papers to
write and smoking to take up. Trust me.

Saturn’s position clearly indicates that
you can smoke with perfect impunity for
exactly 37 years if you start this‘ week. Fi-

nally, don’t attack anyone in arly way this

week. You'll lose.
LEO (July 23 — Aug. 22)

_ Affectionate couples may nauseate
you this week, but you can easily recipro-
cate by not bathing. As for your poster
collection, don’t forget that the moon is
approaching its last quarter, and you
know what that means! Oh, and avoid
beets. Always good advice.

VIRGO (Aug. 23 — Sept. 22)

That neat little nest egg you've
tucked away will be blown completely
this weekend . . . only not by you! Be
patient because your Idaho Super Lotto
combination of 08-16-32-03-66 will fi-
nally come through and millions of
potatoes will be yours.

LIBRA (Sept..23 — Oct. 22)
Giant rabid turnips will attack you in
your bed sometime m the wee hours this

week. In truth, that mysterious bottle in
the paper bag will play arole. Your motto

for the week: Drinkest thou with great~ —to big problems in the romance, depart-

caution and extreme. moderation, lest ye-
encounter the Fates, who wear blue and
drive cushmans.
SCORPIO (Oct. 23 -- Nov. 21)
‘Family problems will create tension
at home,-which won’t affect you because
you got out. However, that will be of
*ery little significance when the tornado
hits. You’ll enjoy improved economic
and intellectual standing, but just don’t
get cocky . . . still a few tornadoes left.
Your lucky construction implement is the
versatile ADZ.
SAGITARIUS (Nov. 22 — Dec. 21)
‘If you forgot that special someone’s
special occasion . . . Oh woe! Fear not,
though. Amazing What a car can do.
Your fortunes will rise and fall, depend-
ing on Mars’ moodiness, then skyrocket.
If you want something, seize the opportu-
nity! Lucky hat? The toque. Seriously.

CAPRICORN (Déc. 22 — Jan. 19)
Your affinity for southern rock will
land you in trouble four times this week.

_ Amouncing All- You. Gan. Eat

Pizaa & Spaghetti Only $2991!!
Wednesday, Sept: 24 5:00 pm- 10:00 pm

ee

x

“Firs Union Sin Suuiknt ‘Advisory Board
Main St. Davidson .

riday, Se stember 19, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN -

The thinking student's horoscope-

. futile. Sell oft at any cost.

The .alignment of Cornelius, Halley’s
Comet and the London Hard Rock points

ment. Don’t study this week. Any at-
tempts at self improvement will prove

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20 — Feb. 18)

Your outlook is pretty bleak: That .
Queenie from last year’s homecoming
will come back to haunt you. Although.
Aquari interact .well: with most other
signs, they should avoid all human con-.
tact this week — hang out in the art gal-
lery to be safe. Chairs, electrical outlets .
and food will cause serious harm, so stay
away. On the bright side, the stars
foretell no debilitatmg diseases until at
least next week. Your lucky body part is
the pancreas.

PISCES (Feb. 19 —’ Mar. 20)

This week will be tense until, finally,
you are overcome by a burning desire to
slip on some Jordaches and électroplated
jewelry and crank up the Wham! Don’t
fight it; life is just too short. Your lucky
shoe? The left one.

Everyone Welcome !

