18

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Activi
Last spring’s editorial tirades about student apathy do not apply this
spring. In the past few weeks, students have seemed to turn self-centered
activity into activism: the sheer length of this week’s Opinions section

bears witness to that switch. The giant slumbering beast of apathy has
turned into a hyperactive humanitarianist.

The most obvious example of this hyperactivity is last Saturday’s
Solidarity Celebration held in response (not necessarily opposition) to
the Ku Klux Klan rally which occurred simultaneously. It was a great
idea that was both well executed and effective. The celebration reached a
degree of success that other rallies can only hope to attain. A group of
students acted quickly and almost literally turned Davidson into a ghost
town which was filled with people in Halloween costumes living in
bygone days.

A group that is living now and thinking of the future is the students
who built the “shanty town” in between the Student Union and the Martin
Science Building. This group, tagged Students Against Apartheid, is fol-
lowing the example set by students at many other colleges and univer-
sities by building lean-to’s made of junk. These attention-grabbing struc-
tures were built to convince the Trustees of Davidson (who are inciden-
tally visiting this weekend) to divest from South African companies.
They may just succeed.

Another group steeped in controversy apparently has formed in the
past two weeks: the Gay Support Group. Long overdue in its formation,
this group strives to provide, as the name suggests, support for the gay
community at Davidson. The founders, some of whom incidentally are
straight, saw a need and worked to meet it. Their first meeting was well
attended, and we can only hope that more people (both straights and
gays) will go to the next meeting.

The YSSC cookout this past Tuesday brought to light the functions
which that group performs. These functions are also enumerated in its
name: Student Service Corps. Their whole program is oriented towards
activism; they do nothing but help others.

From the four examples above, it is clear that activism means helping
others. The students at Davidson are finally crawling out of the ’70s
me” decade and into the ’80s of volunteerism. Davidson is becoming
less provincial and more diverse, and students are becoming more recep-
tive to this diversity.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-

dents of Davideon College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 20036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-

fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-

pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect

the views of the editoriel board of The Davidsonien. Subscriptions cost $13

per year, or $24 per year for firet class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-

able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aureli, Laura Ballenger, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Laura Gabel.
Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine.

Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee
Eichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Nelle McCorkle.
Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Pet-
ranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Kim Robertson, Susan Wik
kins, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck

dangling scar in front of a vorag tous rabbut
jyoned cartier muy jeopardize the entire

be able to do so until u highty -intense

lth Weyer is highly feasible and reales in:
. Praise is pointed in the directiun of

B This expensive Again. thr 6 too
RPEMSIVE 4s it stands now I should

As we understand it. serious

consideration Although

HT The problems for the

whad However.

heer Propect °X7

Hd the qualny of

R for thes proiect

Ben the issue ol cae

nmittes built a
bissuc of South
Fee COMMUCts is
jan will march in

\ > show
a bad idea
burlding ot
an oppor:

i: in any as
ie for more
destryed was

i held later that

uRIMpenant
. in specites
EY in the fight
Wn made ins ain

im that hits much
on as in the case of
Bet ane in which show
PA the shor lived
PAgihe homes ot
and on €

fi: INtraliOn
Hkend ceren

y reMaIAS

IN me

tt. come

Q aN
FrsceulTenss
THE DAVDSOmIAR

Troglodytes

To the Editors:

Once again Tim Brown’s article on Spe-
cial Operations (11 April 86) rears its ugly
head.

Sayres Rudy says that since I have the
impudence to question the “facts” presented
in the article | am not quite equal to a “trog-
lodyte” (I had to look that one up). As I re-
member Tim Brown paraphrases a Captain
Burgess as saying our Special Ops training
is below par. When did Tim talk to the Cap-
tain? What were his exact words? In what
context? He says that a helicopter pilot
threatened to kill a questioning National
Guardsman. Really! Is it an accurate quote?
My experience compels me to think other-
wise. Sorry, but that is how we troglodytes
think. Where did Mr. Brown do his re-
search; Time, Life, Sports Illustrated? Did
the soldiers reaaly go “splat . . . instead of
splash?” Only a troglodyte would question
such well-researched information. All and
all what makes Mr. Brown an authority on
Unconventional Warfare? It makes a poor
dumb troglodyte wonder.

We troglodytes have become a bit up-
pity since the invention of the wheel. We
question what we read. We think that
twelve years experience outweighs a trip to
the magazine rack. Sorry, but that’s the way
we troglodytes think.

Donald Kropp

Divest
To the Editors:

On Feb. 22, 1979, the Board of Trus-
tees published thier “Statement of Davidson
Trustee Endowment Investment Policy,”
which deals directly with their stand on in-
vestment in South Africa.

The statement says that, “the college’s
investments should not be made in sec-
urities or corporations or in other assets
which are used in ways which contradict or
violate the Christian committment of the
college.”

Surely the policy of apartheid in South
Africa contradicts and violates the Christian

Chemoby! shortly after the meltdown

Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN -

Russians Admit Meltdown !
{Release Photograph !

—I]| etters

committment and also the morals of the
Trustees.

So, how can the Trustees defend their
policy of investment in corporations within
South Africa? The publication states that,
“there is certainly agreement . . . that the
South African governement is in violation
of human rights . . . But, so are the gov-
ernmments of many other major countries
throughout the world.”

This is nothing short of blatant hypoc-
risy. They are fooling themselves that they
are doing right when dealing with an unde-
niable wrong.

The Executive Committee of the Facul-
ty has asked that the Board of Trustees re-
view their seven year old investment policy
with respect to Davidson College’s invest-
ments in South Africa. We agree. It is time
the Trustees remove the smoke-screen of
false morality. divest. Now.

Students Against Aparteid

Spencer

To the Editors:

Spencer House sent the following letter
to the Committee on Campus and Religious
Life. The letter addresses the “Option Sys-
tem” proposed by the Patterson Court
Selection Committee. The CCRL was to
vote on the “Option System” Wed., April
30.

To: The Committee On Campus and Religi-

ous Life

“Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty
Has Arisen”

Respect and gratitude go to the Patter-
son Court Selection Committee for their ef-
forts to “improve the college community.”
Dan Murrey was right, the Committee has a
lot on its hands. Spencer House feels, how-
ever, that the Committee's aim, “to make
the system as self-governing as possible,”
misses the target. The atmosphere of free-
dom and responsibility to which Davidson
College aspires, appeals to many. Students
value the “democratic campus social sys-
tem” described in the Davidson catalogue
