THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Bill Bugg, Features Editor

Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Heidi Hooker, News Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Racism

Two years ago, the Black Student Coalition made their Project ’87
proposal as a means toward improving opportunities and the quality of
life for black students at Davidson. As the target date for this project
draws nearer, Davidson students are being confronted on the issue of ra-
cism from many sources. Last week, four Davidson students built a
shanty to awaken the student body from their apathy on the issue of South
African apartheid. This weekend, as the Admissions Office conducts its
annual Minority Recruitment Weekend, the Ku Klux Klan will march in
Davidson. Davidson students are once again being challenged to show
they are not racists.

Davidson should look on all these events; Project ’87, the building of
the shanty, and the Ku Klux Klan march; as an opportunity: an opportu-
hity to show that Davidson College is not a racist institution in any as-
pect.

The shanty built to represent the homes of the South African blacks
that suffer under apartheid did not stand on Chambers Lawn for more
than five hours. Predictably the administration ordered it destroyed so as
not to detract from the Alumni Weekend ceremonies to be held later that
day. Whether or not the actual shanty remains standing is unimportant.
The chief goal was to get more students more involved in Students

Against Apartheid. If students will become more active in the fight
against apartheid, the short lived shanty will not have been made in vain.

The arrival of the Ku KJux Klan is an aspect of racism that hits much
closer to home than apartheid. Yet instead of more action as in the case of
apartheid, the best policy to use against the Klan is one in which David-
son students are quite proficient: a policy of apathy. The Ku Klux Klan
thrives on attention whether it be from a national television network or a
few Davidson students. To “fight” the Klan, don’t show up at their rally.
No crowd at the rally means no coverage for the them.

The arrival of the Klan arouses one’s curiosity to see just what the
robes look like or just what they intend to do at their rally.

Don't.

Going to a Klan rally, even just to watch, helps the Klan. Use your
imagination; Klan rallies are predictable and you can probably guess

what they’ll do.

Some people may want to go heckle the Klansmen.

Don't.

By heckling or physically opposing the Klan you only surrender to
the hatred the Kian represents.

Instead of going to the Klan rally, go to the Solidarity Gathering to be
held behind. the Commons on Saturday afternoon. Refreshments will be
served, fun will be had, and, best of all, you will be opposing the Klan by
not giving them your attention.

These are important times for Davidson’s stance on the racism issue.
Davidson cannot afford even to appear to be racist institution. Project
"87, the shanty, and the Ku Klux Klan rally challenge Davidson to prove
it is not a racist institution. Every member of Davidson’s student body,
faculty, and administration can take a stand against racism both at David-
son and abroad simply by going to the Commons on Saturday afternoon.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Laura Ballenger, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Laura Gabel.
Andrea Gross, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine.

Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee
Eichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Nelle McCorkle.
Sports Staff: Darryl Bego, Emil Cekada, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Pet-
ranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kris Kost,
Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck

Cute: 61486

TWE DAVIDSONIAN

Ny

MTEL

10 HECK witht Is DEAL! Ketis GO CHECK our

Friday, April 25, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE PARTY THEM ow DAVIDSON BOYS 1s HAVIN’!

——J etters

Klan

To the Editors:

This Saturday, April 26, the Ku Klux
Klan will march down Main Street in
Davidson. As everyone should know the
Ku Klux Klan is a national organization
based on their hatred for blacks and other
minorities. To compound the situation, this
weekend the admissions office is bringing
in minority students, from across the na-
tion, to look at Davidson.

When I first heard of this march my
reaction was similar I’m sure to that of
many others. “The Ku Klux Klan here? in
Davidson?” Believe it. Iredell county is the
most active Klan county in North Carolina.
“Well since they are coming, let's go out
and make them see that they are not wel-
come.” This preliminary instinct should not
be obeyed. If you give yourself over to this
hatred, you become no better that the Klan
itself.

So what can be done? This Thursday at
4p.m. in front of Belk a group of concerned
students met and considered their options.
A member of the the Davidson Town Coun-
cil and [SGA President} Mark Sandy spoke.
The Ku Klux Klan are going on this march
for one reason: to get publicity. There
would be nothing they would profit more
from than if a bunch of rowdy people pro-
tested their march. The Ku Klux Klan want
publicity. The thing that will hurt them the
most is if no one shows up to watch them.

All of the Davidson merchants are
going to close their stores. Entertainment
and free food will be offered behind the
Commons. I urge everyone to go to the
Commons, students and townspeople alike.
Do not give the Klan what they want the
most: media coverage. The more people
that show up the more media coverage the
Ku Klux Klan will get.

Every year it becomes more and more
apparent that yes, Davidson is in the real
world. The Klan is one aspect of society
that exists, and it will not just go away. Do
not become an inadvertant supporter of the
Klan. If anyone you know plans to go to the
march, either to protest, taunt or out of
curiosity, discourage them. Nothing could
discourage the Klan more than if they had to

walk through a deserted town. If you have
the time go out even before the march and
encourage students and townies alike to
come to the activities behind the Commons.
The Klan is rising out of Iredell county.
Want to stop this? Do not show up at the
march! Actively discourage other people
from going also. Turn Davidson into a
ghost town.

Matt Mathews

Council

To the Editors:

This past Monday night I took an ill-
timed nap on the second floor of the
Carolina Inn. Til-timed because I missed
another attempt on the lives of those on the
Honor Council. Most of it was okay, from
what I hear, but I have a simple question I
must ask again. Why does the issue become
so personal? People seem angry at the
Honor Council much of the time and I don’t
understand it, as a student and as a retired
chairman of the Council. Listen, okay?

The Honor Council is composed of stu-
dents who are efected by the students to doa
job that is clearly outlined in the Codes. Pri-
vacy must be maintained in many cases be-
cause we don’t want people to be mortified
to the point of not Coming back to David-
son. But rather than empathizing with de-
fendants on that issue, some people here
immediately assume that privacy to be a
cover-up of some sort. One person this past
Monday even asserted that innocent people
are the prey of the Council. He compared
innocent defendants to Steinbeck’s Lennie
in Of Mice and Men.

I’m not sure how innocent defendants
would react to being compared to a re-
tarded, hulking man who has no idea what
he wants out of life, but the comparison is
important. People at Davidson are not re-
tarded. If they are brought up before the
Council, it is because evidence suggests
they may have committed‘an Honor Code or
Code of Responsibility violation, not be-
cause they carelessly killed a woman — as
Lennie does in the book.

The Council always considers intent,
hard as it is to judge, and always gives the

