i
i]

ae 4 The Davidsonian
Opi N | Ons Friday, November 7, 1986

Sayres reports on Palestine experiences

Sayres Rudy

Last week I sat down for several hours and wrote you a
piece. After my hard work and toil, I took a walk along the
streets of Amman, Jordan. When I returned and read my ar-
ticle, I found it pedantic, platitudinous, moody, and long.
Like most of my writing.

I’m back at my desk, after a day touring Baqa’a, the
largest Palestinian refugee canip in the Middle East. If you
ever need to sober yourself and write a decent paragraph or
two, visit a Palestinian refugee camp. Then don’t describe
it. Just develop the pictures.

6

It all started with a couple named Eve
and Adam and it continues until,
well, forever

5 ; 9

My name is Sayres and I was lucky to win a Watson
Fellowship for this year. I’m travelling in Jordan and Israel
to learn more about and to feel the so-called homeland
issue, the question of Palestine. By the way, to the at least
quarter of you who don’t know who the hell I am, I can’t
offer sufficient consolation; I’m usually the least important
thing in anything I write, though, so I’m not terribly exclu-
sive. My project, getting back to my point, involves wide-
eyed observation and investigation of one of the central is-
sues in the Middle East: The Israeli occupation since 1967
of the land not granted to Israel in the UN partition of Pales-
tine in 1947-8.. The complexity of the issue and its history
confounds me, stuns me. I can’t scrape the surface without
demanding — and probably ruining — your entire
weekend. It all started with a couple named Eve and Adam
and it continues until, well, forever. I guess, up to and in-
cluding the Karachi massacre, Israel’s bombing of Tunisia
last year, and the children of the children of the children I
saw today packed in their class room in the Baqa’a camp.

I've read Chaim Potok and Elie Wiesel and seen
enough footage of satanic Nazi inhumanity to live here
forever without losing my irrelevant objectivity. Most of us
feel for Israel, I think. We are pro-Israel. We are perhaps
pro-Israel to the exclusion of some truths. I can feel the
pressure just having written that. If I tell a bad truth about
Israel, will I become ineligible to serve our government? |
hope not. I have always supported a democratic Israel, and
always will. But that is still a question I ask myself regu-
larly while reporting what I see. Other questions: To what
extent is America, given its Constitution, consistent in sup-
porting a theocracy which by its own declared definition,
may not be democratic? Is “armed struggle” a Palestinian
policy? If so, does it help or hurt their cause? Who repre-

sents the common Palestinian? What role should America:

play in the Middle East? Do all groups deserve their own

nation-states and homelands, that they may be the majority

therein and protect themselves? do the American Indians

. have a right to kick you out of your house? Is it ever going

to rain here? What are “rights” in terms of land? Given its
Charter, does the United Nations have a “right” to partition
lands it does not own, and if so, should. the Basque
separatists, Tamils, Sikhs, Christian Sudanese, or Palesti-
nians be given homelands wherein they may be the secure
majority? Answers: yes, please.

Welcome to the Palestinian Problem, al mushkala fulis-
tinia, and there, I’ve already shown off half my Arabic. Ev-
eryone here is wrong. Or right. It doesn’t much matter. Ul-
timately, rights and wrongs only make people angry and
_ self-righteous. Power, not morality, has imposed the ques-

“ern illusion I would dispel if I could, it’s the illusion that the
Arab mentality differs from the mentality of the rest of the
world, that Arabs are unintelligible, irrational, religious
fanatics. Before believing, come here and listen to Ronald
Reagan, Jerry Falwell, Ariel Sharon, and Meir Kehane.
Religious “fanaticism” exists here, as everywheré, but
power politics, self-interest, and survival are the motivat-
ing force behind Arab politics. I admit that at first I was
shaken when I found out who is the latest to sell Iran arms:
Iraq. Is it irrational, though, even though it sounds crazy?
It’s another case of the leaders playing with the lives of the
followers. Remember trench warfare? That wasn’t the
Middle East in WWI, it was the enlightened, rational West.

Fe and conflicts in the Middle East. If there is one West-
!
|
b
t

It’s war. Either we're all irrational in war or none of us are. relative safety, behind the counter, Jon saw one may trap-
It’s hard to draw the line when people are killing people. ped against a wall riddled with bullets. Jon said the man
But at home in the U.S., haven’t we drawn the line against jerked like a puppet, then collapsed in a pile. The attack
the Arabs? Rational explanations, I assure you, underlie was against Israel, but also against Americans.- What did
Arab actions. Jon have to do with the Arab-Israeli conflict? Essentially
I cannot emphasize that enough. In the same breath nothing. On line at the counter he carried a collection of
Americans say that Israel needs our massive aid‘program Robert Frost's poems. Maybe it all ties in somehow.
because the. Israelis must protect themselves from the Because our government is involved, each of us is in-
monolithic and aggressive Arab foe, and we say that the volved. We all bombed Libya. We all pour money into the
Arabs are constantly divided and fighting one another, and conflict. My first point was that the fundamental motiva-
therefore must be crazy. How can we believe both state- tion underlying behavior here, like everywhere, is power
ments? Sure, Arab states fight and quarrel. That’s what politics, realism, self-interest. My second point is this, and
countries do. It’s not irrational; at least it’s normal. What it involves all of us and our self-interest as American: the
kills me is that we don’t usually give them a way out. Either Arabs and Israelis are at war and have been since 1948. The
they are the irrational monolith or the irrational bickerers. huge flare-ups in 1948, 1956, 1967, and 1973 were peaks.
Arabs are rational. I’ve talked with many of them, with The war is constant, the military activity, the killing, pe-
many Palestinians who have left or have been forced to‘rennial. You are involved because the U.S. has chosen
leave what they call Palestine, and have been refused re- sides. We are pro-Israel. The Americans are, indirectly or
entry. directly (the Americas bombing of’ Lebanon did not look
They don’t hate Americans or Jews. They hate and good), at war with the Arabs, to the limited extent that there
fear — a common pair — Zionism. They see Zionism as iS a “the Arabs,” because we unquestionably support Israel
expansionist and violent. They see the bombing of Tunisia. in the war. A possible exception was Eisenhower's const-
They see the Israeli invasion of Lebanon from 1982 to this taining the Anglo- -Franco-Israeli attack of 1956, and the
day. They see the occupation of the Goza Strip and the Arabs always mention that event and thank us for it. Can
West Bank long after the dust settled from 1967, 1973, and you see how Americans are involved? Jon and | never de-
the Camp David Accord which brought Egypt out of the cided exactly what the U.S. should do about its position.
equation for Israeli security. The Arabs talk about the Is- But as Jon, an American Zionist by self-description, said,
raeli prison camp called Ansar in Southern Lebanon, where We will pay a price for taking sides. Who knows better than
they say Israeli soldiers torture and urinate on suspects he does?
taken on whim and held without charge. Arabs see Ameri- ‘The relaxing point from my perspective is that Jorda-
cans condemn terrorism. Arabs see Americans kill over nians and Palestinians like me and welcome me warmly,
one hundred Libyans in a terrorist assassination attempt. though I’m so American they can smell it. They know that
Arabs see America give 48 percent of its global non-mili- the people and the policies can be distinguished, and they
tary aid and 35 percent of its military aid to the Israelis. really like Americans. That’s my third point. In America, I
Atabs also see the official Amnesty International reports saw Arabs only when a hooded one was peering out of the -

confirming Israeli human rights violations. cockpit window of a hijacked plane. Please don’t. be
seduced by such distortion. A similar distortion would be a
6 foreign assumption that all Americans are members of the

Ku Klux Klan. It’s the few, the powerful, terrorist ones
over here who hate our powerful, terrorist ones over there.

They don’t hate Americans and Jews. The vast majority of the Palestinians are busy with school,

: work, refugee camps, or whatever they do. Right, like us at
They hate and fear —a common home. They like me, too! And they can be funny.

pair. — Zionism as expansionist and I was standing on a comer, waiting to cross a busy
violent street. Two old Arabs stood next to me, wearing the well-
known headress. One of them stepped down onto the street.
A car rushed by and the Arab jumped back onto the curb. I
inadvertently said, “OOOPS!” The other Arab, who hadn’t
: 9 budged looked at me and smiled slowly. I checked my fly. I
Please do not confuse the above perceptions with my looked back up to him quickly when I heard him exclaim in
views. I have thus far only asked questions and reported a a high voice, “OOOPS!” I laughed and he said it again.
view. I implore you to free your mind of its various con- “OOOPS!” He said it a few more times, with the passing
straints, in order to judge the Arab perceptions on theirown cars, but eventually he tired of it, and we all crossed the
merits. That’s asking a lot, especially of people who street. We went different directions, but I stopped and
wouldn’t mind being left alone to enjoy the green grass and looked back. They were walking away slowly, quietly. The
Robert Frost; I myself confess to committing the American old man stopped and turned around to see me smiling. He
atrocity of wanting to be left alone to do what.I want. I ask smiled, and called out “OOOPS!”, smiléd again, and
you to question your assumptions because you are infi- walked away.
nitely involved in the whole world, by virtue of being sub- 6
ject to a democratic government that infinitely involves it- .
self in the whole world. Despite my multitudinous objec- In America, I saw Arabs only when a

tions to Thoreau’s’brilliant essay on civil disobedience,I hooded one was peering out of the

think he was right about the war in Mexico. No individual oe : oe
would go fight it on his own volition; they went because the cockpit window of a hijacked plane.

government made a decision. Now I am no anarchist. In Please don’t be seduced by such dis-
fact, I’m so confused I’m still a registered Independent! tortion 9
But Thoreau would ask you, What do you know about
Savimbi? How about Mobuto? Pastora? Zia? You and I It’s hard to be scared here. Before I left,.my friend Bilal
trust our government about all those thugs because our gov- looked gravely into my eyes and instilled prudence. “You
ernment does what it does to protect us. And I firmly be- know,” said he, “You'll look different from anyone there.
lieve that our well-being is the goal of all our administra- You may face antagonism. Be careful.” I nodded sincerely.
tions, whether I quarrel here and there or not. It’s okay to Then he said, “By the way, I think you should bring your
not know how you are involved way over. here. I would tennis racket. Then he nodded sincerely. Wonderful. If the
argue that the U-S-doesn’towe the worlda living nor resol= “Arabs and Israelis attack each other with ball machines Fit—
utions to all its impassioned conflicts. As far I know you be fine.
don’t owe anything to anyone, except possibly to yourself. Before I left for the Middle East, many of you nodded
My friend Jon is okay, and please excuse the solipsistic sincerely, worried about my trip. I'm writing to say Hello,
reference to my essay. “My Friends”, which the Davidso- I’m fine. Thank you. I miss you people. I travel cautiously,.
nian printed last year. I talked to Jon this summer, and he and wake up from some scary dreams, but I’m okay here.
said the shrapnel! came out with only small scars, and he’s Better here than on American highways. I’m nodding seri-
happy to be alive. Jon was in Rome at the airpost last De- ously. That’s all I wanted.te say, “Hi,” but I’ve done it
cember when the Arab Abu Nidal terrorist group massacred again. Pedantic, platitudinous, moody, and long. OOOPS!
people at the ticket counter of the Israeli airline, El-Al. Jon ‘
jumped over the counter as a grenade bounced toward him
and exploded, stabbing metal into his legs and head. From Rudy is a 1986 graduate of Davidson

