Friday, January 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

[Beyond Davidson

Headlining the news for the week of
Jan. 9-15:

Middle East news — In response to
the total economic sanctions imposed
upon his country by the U.S., Libyan
leader Qaddafi accused the U.S. of trying
to topple his regime and threatened to at-
tack U.S. military bases in Europe; secu-
rity provisions have been taken by the
U.S. Italy and Canada have joined

— a weekly
news .
summary

JANE AURELL

Reagan’s plea for sanctions against Qad-
dafi’s regime. The U.S. is blaming Libya
for harboring and supporting Abu Nidal,
the terrorist group accused of De-
cember’s airport bombings in Rome and
Vienna causing U.S. casualties.

In related developments: Security
forces in Scandanavia and the Nether-
lands have been placed on full alert in
reaction to threats from Abu Nidal on
Jewish and Israeli institutions; U.S.
domestic and commercial offices have
been included in this alert.

Meanwhile, last week Israel an-
nounced its plans to join the U.S. in the
research and development of the Strate-
gic Defense Initiative. On Monday, Is-
rael and Egypt agreed to submit the resol-
ution of the Taba territorial dispute to in-
ternational arbitration; Taba is the 250-
acre beachfront resort captured by Israel
in the 1967 Arab-Israeli War.

Also on Monday, an Iranian ship
stopped and searched a U.S. freighter
nearing the Persian Gulf. The Iranian
ship was searching for weapons bound
for Iran’s enemy, Iraq, and released the
U.S. ship after finding none. It is unde-
cided whether the Iranian action was a
branch of international law. Finally, the
state-run radio in Marxist South Yemen
reported that President Ali Nasser
Mohammed survived an unsuccessful
coup attempt.

Latin American news — In Ven-
ezuela this week, the Contadora Group
— Venezuela, Panama, Columbia and
Mexico — met to attempt a revitalization
of their Central American peace effort.
Under a scholarship fund initiated by the
Kissinger Commission, 154 college stu-
dents from seven Central American
countries arrived in the U.S. on Monday.

Meanwhile, Nicaraguan President
Daniel Ortega wrote a letter to eight other
Latin American presidents asking for
their help in arranging peace talks be-
tween U.S. Secretary of State George
Shultz and Nicaraguan Foreign Minister
Miguel D’Escoto.

In Guatemala, Vinicio Cerezo was
swom in as the country’s first civilian
president in over 16 years.

South African news — Speaking to
reporters in Washington last Friday,
South African Bishop Desmond Tutu
said that unless economic pressures are
applied and blacks are given political
powers, South Africa is “ripe for explo-
sion.” Calling it a “symbol of corporate
complicity” with the government of
South Africa, a consumer boycott was
launched against Shell Oil by U.S. oppo-

nents of apartheid.
Also in the U.S., the nation’s major
Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox

churches are organizing a major anti-
apartheid campaign to press for com-
prehensive government economic sanc-
tions and commercial divestiture.

After a two-day visit to South Africa,
Chester Crocker, the architect of the U.S.
policy toward South Africa called “‘con-
structive engagement”, said he rejected
increasing U.S. sanctions as an effective
means for helping to dismantle apartheid.

Other internationally related news
— Last week, shocking Thatcher’s con-
servative government, Britain’s Secret-
ary of Defense resigned. A new pact be-
tween Greece and the U.S. will allow for
the sale of 40 U.S. F16 fighter planes to
Greece.

President Reagan will name Frank
Wisner as ambassador to Egypt to replace
Nicholas Veliotes, who resigned last
week. An eleven-member congressional
delegation visiting East Berlin met with
communist President Erich Honeckner
and urged the tearing down of the Berlin
Wall.

Administration sources report that
President Reagan is planning a trip to
Grenada next month to show off the
economic progress made by that nation
since the 1983 military invasion. Several
private consulting firms in the U.S. have
reported being contacted by the govern-
ments of the U.S.S.R. and Angola for
public relations advice; some see this as
an ethical dilemma while others see it as a
natural outgrowth of a “thaw” in U.S.-
Soviet relations.

In the meantime, Soviet foreign

Tutu says South Africa ‘ripe for explosion’

Minister Eduard Shevardnadze is in
Japan on an official visit.

In National News — In an article
written for the New York Times
Magazine, President Reagan has called
on all citizens to join in a national effort
to eradicate organized crime in America.

According to a new report from the
Physicians Task Force on Hunger,
hunger in America is on the increase with
150 countries fitting the criteria of having
more than 20 percent of their households
living below the poverty level and less
than one- third of those eligible receiving
food stamps. In 1985, only one in three
jobless workers received unemployment
benefits.

Eastman Kodak received a court
order to stop making and selling instant
photographic products. Those who own
Kodak instant cameras may exchange
them for one share of Kodak stock, a $50
coupon book or a new disc camera.

A nasal spray made with the hormone
interferon has been found effective in the
prevention of the common cold; the spray
is not yet available to the public.

After seven aborted launch efforts,
the space shuttle Columbia took off on
Sunday for a five-day mission; Florida
Representative Bill Nelson was among
the seven-member crew.

Actress Donna Reed, 64, died* of
cancer on Tuesday.

Finally, Monday will mark the first
observation of the national holiday hon-
oring Martin Luther King Jr.

Thought for the week — ‘There is no
duty we so much underrate as the duty of
being happy.”

— Robert Louis Stevenson

Morris discusses possible Conference switch

By ANDREA DIEDRICH
and JEFF LESESNE
The following is the conclusion of the Davidsonian’ s in-
terview with athletic director Kit Morris.
D: After we join the Colonial Football league will our
other athletic teams be allowed to continue to compete in

the Southern Conference? If not, what are our alternatives?
M: That’s not a question that’s been resolved in a

finite way. What the Southern Conference has said is that
when we no longer meet the scheduling requirements for
football and basketball, and that would be in the 87-88
school year, then we will no longer enjoy Conference
membership. More Conference regulations were in effect
in the past when Davidson College was granted a waiver
for football participation for a period of about ten years.
Although I’m not hanging all my hopes on that one star
that we might be granted a waiver again, I’ve certainly
been speaking long and often with my colleagues in the
Southern Conference to try to persuade them that the
opportunity to remain in the Conference would be a good
thing for both us and them.

It’s not the only option we’re persuing at this time.
Over the long pull I see independent status as being
unattractive and unaffordable so we’ re trying to investigate
what else may be available and what else would be a good
fit for what we’re trying to do.

D: Is there any particular alternative to the Southern
Conference that we are investigating?

M: As an alternative to the Southern Conference
probably the thing that looms on the horizon that would
be most attractive would be a league that until this year
was known as the ECAC South and is now call the
Colonial Athletic Association. Their headquarters are
based in Richmond and the member schools are Navy,
American University, George Mason, James Madison,
William and Mary, Richmond, UNC Wilmington, and
East Carolina. Three of those schools used to be in the

Southern Conference and were in the Conference the last
time we won a championship in football or basketball.

We’ ve played a number of those schools over the

years. It focuses our competition more to the north than to
the south and west.

D: What plans do you have to improve the football
record next year and what kind of recruiting will you be
or are you doing?

M: Although there is a limited period of time beginning
the first of December when you can speak to prospects
face to face off campus, this fall a number of our coaches
were out two days per week speaking with high school
coaches in North and South Carolina trying to rebuild
some contacts that had lapsed over the years. They went
into high schools where a Davidson coach had not been
seen in five or six years. I think if you ignore the talent
that’s in your backyard or ignore those relationships then
you’re probably not going to be as successful as you
might be. We’ve also gone a little bit further afield in
terms of our search for prospects, and we've had a
number of recruiting weekends so far and continue to plan
on having those throughout the winter. There were about
23 prospective football players on campus last weekend
who got to enjoy the Davidson lifestyle and go to the
coliseum and watch us beat UNCC. These are some of the
things that are happening.

I think some of the other things that have to happen
relative to some facilities improvements. Certainly the
addition of a lighted field somewhere on campus to be
able to schedule practices at a time that doesn’t conflict
with classes or labs is going to be very important.

I think the most important thing to which you can
devote your resources is man power and human potential.
I think that coach Gatto represents a new and refreshing
attitude towards football and athletics, and one that I
think will blend well with what the community here
wants. He is innovative; he is thoughtful; and he is
aggressive. Certainly it is my hope that those will produce
dividends in the coming years.

D: What significant changes have you made in the
athletic program since you've been here and what changes
do you anticipate making in the future?

M: Perhaps the greatest change is that there have been

very few unilateral changes. The decisions that we've
tried to make have been based on the cultivation of a con-
sensus.

I don’t know whether there are major markers one can
point to to say these things have happened, certainly the
more into the Colonial League in football, which the trus-
tees have approved, sets the course for that sport well inic
the future.

The initiation of plans for fund raising and construction
of a modern sports complex on campus is something that is
certainly exciting, something that I play a role in, although
the timeliness of the project itself, moreso than any princi-
ples involved, is the driving force there. Johnston Gym 1s a
fine and glorious building that in 1985 has grown a little
weary with age and no longer meets the needs of a student
population for which it was planned.

Certainly some efforts in the area of women's athletics
and trying to charter a successful course for its future has
been something that has received a lot of energy, but that
energy has not necessarily manifested itself in any specific
actions that you can speak to.

The development of a captain's council, where I sit
down with the captains of our various sports periodically
during the year and talk with them about Davidson athletics
is a new project. The plans, yet to be instituted, for a stu-
dent committee on athletics where a group of students rep-
resenting a broad range of athletics interests, from recrea-
tional to varsity sports to club sports, is something I hope to
get going early in the next year.

I have been on the road a fair amount of time speaking
with alumni and friends groups to help re-energize a re-
lationship with the athletics department.

Certainly internally I've been far more cautious about
moves relative to structure although we are beginning to re-
quire a greater detail in the budget development process.
We are asking all coaches file end of season reports in their
sports that have not been required in the past, and looking at
the current resources on the staff here and trying to think
ahead to the future administrative structure of this depart-
ment.
