Friday, September 19, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tim Brown

My limited knowledge of South Korea is based on

essays and articles [ haVe read, and on hours of conver-
sation I have had with two South Korean friends.
. Just as many American yuppies casually attribute
_ their work ethic to their Puritan primogenitors the South
Koreans accredit their work ethic to Confucius, who 25
centuries ago gave the East the novel idea that work is
indeed Virtuous. With this idea stil! in the recesses of
their minds, the South Koreans now attempt to make a
good living from their land “rich in beauty but, poor in
resources,” as the author Peter Hynn describes it. Their
attempts have been encouraged by their president's poli-
cies of quality-oriented trade improvement and trade
liberalization.

After receiving the reins of power from President
Park Chung Hee, who after the Korean War prodded
“the. sleeping tiger” that was South Korea’s economy
into wakefulness, President Chun Doo Hwan decided to
continue to increase the size of South Korea’s economy,
but also to employ the maxim “quality comes first.”
Under his leadership, South Korea’s economy has con-
* tinued to grow eight per cent annually for the last twenty
years. Strong economic diversity has been achieved par-
ticularly in such areas as steel, shipbuilding, electrical
machinery , petrochemicals and electronics. Surprising
to many, South Korea’s steel industry lays a legitimate
claim to being the world’s most efficient steel industry
— 582 tons of steel per worker in 1983 — 25 per cent
more efficient than Japan, which ranks a close second.
Still, Japan has little reason to be unsettled since its ship-
building industry ranks number one world-wide and
South Korea’s comes in a distant number two. South
Korea dominates construction in the Middle East. Its
semiconductor industry is growing by leaps and bounds:
This industry’s exports are expected to grow from $1
billion last year to $3 billion by 1988 and to $12 billion
by the year 2000.

G

years.

2

As South Korea’s quality-oriented and liberalization
trade policies lead to encouragement .for high technol-
ogy, the country is entering into more and more joint
ventures. It has galvanized links with Dow Lorning,
Honeywell, Hewlett-Packard, Mitsubishi, General
Motors, Chrysler, Ford, and Mazda. The thoughtful
consumer, who realizes that what American consumers
need most is another brand of automobile to choose
from, won't be disappointed when seeing and test-driv-
ing any one of South Koréa’s and Japan’s Hyundais, or
one of South Korea’s and Ford’s 80,000 Kia minis,
which will go on display in showrooms throughout the
good ole U.S. in 1987.

Displaying contemporaneously the greediness of the
“Miser and the compassion of the Good Samaritan, South
Korea exports and consumes bite-sized chunks of the
foreign market, and lessens import restrictions and pro-
tectionist tendencies. South Koreans have an admirable
understanding of the elementary fact that protectionism
is bad news for imports, exports, and the consumers

who are caught’ in the middle. Sixty per cent of South

_ to keep this trade growing and the consumers happy, a
program of import liberalization has been implemented.
This program increases the ratio of iterns that can be im-
ported without prior government approval from a gener-
’ ous ratio of 68.2 per cent to a more generous one of 87.7
per cent. In addition, current economic policies have
been refigured and reworked to allow domestic and in-

method of resource allocation.

Under his leadership, South Korea’s
economy has continued to grow eight
per cent annually for the last twenty

Korea’s national income comes from trade. And in order ©

temational market forces to decide the most efficient —

~The admirable South Koreans-

Because of these mutually beneficial attempts on
their part, South Koreans get hot underneath their col-
lars when the United States “implies that South Korea is
to blame” largely for the United States’ unreasonably
high trade deficits. South Korea accounted for only 3.2
per cent of the total U.S. trade deficits last year and en-
joyed a trade surplus of $4.8 billion. Maybe the U.S. is
displacing at South Korea anger that is intended for

Japan, which enjoyed a $49.7 billion trade surplus with.

the U.S. last year. In the past the U.S. has shown ten-
dencies to incorrectly and inextricably associate the two
eastern countries. The United States’ squabbling and
griping are insubstantiated further by the fact that South
Korea has hired Americans to work in its industries lo-
cated in the U.S.: 220 Americans at a TV plant in New
Jersey, and 800 Americans at a TV plant in Alabama.
When South Korea assumed ownership of a failing
steel-sheet manufacturing plant in Pittsburg, Calif. , all
the workers judged to be efficient were asked if they
would stay on.

4

The United States’ squabbling and grip-

; tions three years of fierce fighting to kick the North Ko-
reans back ovef the 38th parallel. Today in Soviet-back-
ed North Korea, 700,000 army men and a 100,000
réady-and-able commandos meander about and occa-
sionally look southward.

Still President Chun maintains his determination to
build sturdy bridges and to ease the tensions between his
country and its neighbors. He seeks reunification of the
two Koreas and has proposed a constitution to make this
reunion Soth official and honorable to each country. In
1983 President Chun was able to get Japanese Premier
Nakasone to come over to his house in Seoul by promis-
ing Nakasone good food, some merriment, and intellec-
tual conversation regarding political, cultural, and
economic exchanges. Also, President Chun has played
the roles of guest and host to Reagan, delegates from Af-
rica and Canada and the Pacific Basin. At these oppor-
tunistic meetings Chun has given power-packed
dialogue concerning the rewards of economic and politi-
cal cooperation. .

When South Korea plays host to the Olympic Games
in 1988, the world will be given the chance to know
South Korea a little better. Hynn writes conceming.the
up-and coming Olympics: “South Korea, for centuries
the target of incursions from abroad, will soon welcome
an invasion. This time, however, they [the invaders] are

ing are insubstantiated further—by- the —expected-to arrive armed with the skills of friendly com-

fact that South Korea has hired Ameri-
cans to work in its industries located in

the U.S. id

9

Democratic politics in South-Korea have been

molded and cast by President Chun’s three principles of
liberalization, reconciliation and reform. Allow Chun’s
six-and-a-half-year-old record to speak well for itself:
The constitution has been revised to strengthen human
rights, freedom of speech, assembly, and the press.
Forced confessions have been outlawed. Police have
been removed from campuses, and students are allowed
to travel and work and study abroad, which develop-
ments have helped to create a free atmosphere in which
to learn. The jails have been emptied of innocent prison-
ers who were wrongly convicted during previous
periods of avid unrest: Promises of public welfare, pub-
lic education, and a legitimate judicial system have been
made and fulfilled. Many previously banned from polit-
ical activities no longer are. The midnight-to-4 a.m. cur-
few has been evaporated.
Last year’s National Assembly elections were claimed
‘the freest in South Korea’s history. Chun has promised
to step down in 1988 and fo adhere to new laws that limit
one president to one seven-year term. And Chun has
maintained, as President Park did before him, that the
best way for a country to protect itself from communists
who desire to export their ideologies is to surpass them
“in the economic, political, and social sectors of life.”

The informed reader might wonder, then, why there
are so many news articles saying so many bad things
about a minority’s fervent opposition to President Chun.
One major reason is that South Korea’s rapidly bloom-
ing economy has created distances, in some casés and

areas considerable distances, between the haves and the
have-nots. The minority that opposes Chun demands ,
more equitable income distribution. The other major
reason is that the minority, though it agrees with the cur-
rent course President Chun’s government is taking,
doesn’t believe his government is running towards the
finish line “fastenough.” =

Now President Chun — in order to get the unsettled
minority to join the ranks of the satisfied majority and in
order to get this minority more involved in the cor-
nucopia of economic growth — is increasing job oppor-
tunities, government-owned housing, developments,
medical insurance, social security, welfare, and public
education. He also has offered to speak with this minor-
ity about possible improvements in the constitution.

Having North Korea, the Soviet Union, China, and

Japan as neighbors makes South Korea’s first and last:

concerns the security and integrity of its front and back
lawns. Its concerns over security and integrity have been:
confirmed by twentieth century history. The Japanese.
ruled: Korea from 1910 until their defeat in WWII. In
June 1950,North Korea invaded; it would take South
Korea, the United States and the forces of 15 other na-

bat, pure. thoughts, and fat wallets.” South Korea —
many of whose people still show signs of euphoria when
asked about the Olympic Games in Los Angeles m
1984, from which their athletes carried six gold, six -
silver and seven bronze, their best performance ever —
is doing better than expected in preparing itself for 1988.
The Seoul Sports Complex seats 100,000 comfortably
and is conveniently a skip and a jump from the Kimpo
International Airport. South Korea’s indoor swimming
pool seats 4,500 spectators, its basketball gymnasium
seats 20,000, its fencing gymnasium seats 7,000, its
gymnastics hall 10,000, its equestrian park 30,000, and
its velodrome 6,000 people. Similarly, spacious facili-
ties exist for baseball, judo, weightlifting, table tennis,
shooting, and archery, and other Olympic tests of skill.
A $300 million “shopping village” is under construc;
tion. Moreover, an extensive and elaborate subway sys-
tem, the world’s seventh largest and able to service five
million commuters a day, has been completed recently.
This subway is nothing like the graffiti-ridden, trash-
ridden burrows that many New Yorkers and Ed Koch
have grown to like. South Korea’s subway is ; lined with
shops and arcades and art exhibits. It is efficient and safe
and clean. In addition, the subway displays a traditional
concern for cleanliness, which is considered above
“Buddhaliness.”

Though they have modeled their economy and poli-
tics to some degree in the image of the West, South Ko-
reans cling to their cultural traditions. Proud of their 95
per cent literary rate, many South Koreans continue to
write classical Chinese poetry, continue.to produce fic-
tion and nonfiction at a rate of 100 volumes a week, and
continue to carry on Korean folklore. Ancient forms are
still espoused and nurtured in dance, art, theatre.

¢

He seeks reunification of the two Koreas
and has proposed a constitution to
make this reunion both official and hon-
orable to each country. |

yy,

My reading has convinced me that South Korea,
bearing some semblance to David, will continue to com-
pete with and to make peace with the:Goliath-sized na-
tions of the world. My two South Korean friends have
convinced me that South Korea’s strength will continue
to stem largely from its peoples adherence to the Confu-
cian work ethic, which is evident ih their hard werk and
hard play. And my two South Korean friends (they live
in Charlotte) and I hope that South Koreans who adhere
to the Confucian work ethic can avoid what many Char-
lotteans who adhere to the Puritan work ethic cannot:
type A personalities:

