Parday, Jamuary 30, 1986 THE DOODADOOSONIAN ze

ADDI AID ADDIS SSL SSS SSA SAA AID AAA ADD DIA DD DDD PDD ITLL LLL LLL LLL

-In Spite of Davidson

3

Internationally — Sources in North
Africa revealed last week that General
Muammar Qaddafi of Libya has signed a
secret military alliance with President
Reagan. Reagan reportedly agreed to end
all hostilities between Libya and the
United States and to transfer nuclear
technology from the U.S. to Libya. In re-
turn, Qaddafi has agreed to train C.I.A.
technicians in appropriate uses of ter-
rorist tactics on airplanes, in airports, and
on cruise ships in Europe and the Middle
East.

General Idi Amin has arranged to re-
turn to Uganda after seven years of exile

(A Weekly News summary
by Sane Aursenall)

in Iraq. Declaring that he is frustrated and
tired of the civil war and military takeov-
ers of the government in Kampala, Amin
said, “I will return peace, strength, and
democracy to the Ugandan people.”
Meanwhile, claiming that “we loved
President Nixon, gas-guzzlers, and the
American consumer.” the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) has recently promised to reduce
gas prices for the United States to pre-
1973 levels. Exxon announced Tuesday
that if all goes well, the price of gasoline

will drop to 35.9¢ per gallon within a
year. Commenting on the future of auto-
mobile production, Ford founder Henry
Ford announced, ““We’ ve been waiting to
market the Edsel for a long time, now,
and this seems to be our chance.”

Acknowledging the high intelligence
quotient of President Ronald Reagan,
Soviet Premier Mikhael Gorbachev an-
nounced Sunday his new Eastern Block
Strategic Defense Initiative (EBSDI).
“I'd like to think we don’t need an anti-
ballistic missile treaty either” Gorbachev
said. He promised that his EBSDI would
be researched and ready for production
by 1992. “Hopefully, we can eradicate
the necessity of nuclear weapons on the
planet Earth, reserving explosions for all
to see in space.” He noted that his EBSDI
will be able to strike anything, be it Ko-
rean jetliners, space shuttles, or spy satel-
lites, at the press of a button.

PLO leader Yassir Arafat has signed
a new terrorism treaty with Mexican
President Miguel de la Madrid, it was re-
ported Thursday. Arafat has offered free
Palestinian freedom fighters for Mexican
attacks on Houston and El Paso. In re-
turn, de la Madrid agreed to send Mexi-
can sombrero militants to aid in the
PLO’s attacks on Spain. “I’ve decided to
get back at Spain and the United States
once and for all, for all those years of

mistreatment we faced,” de la Madrid
said.

Domestically — North Carolina
Senator Jesse Helms was caught red-han-
ded last week attending the 1986 NAACP
convention. When asked why he was at
the meeting, Helms claimed, “Well, |
heard everyone shouting, ‘Go, Jesse!
Go, Jesse!’ and I thought all the black
people loved me after all!”

Meanwhile, religious fundamentalist
Jerry Falwell made a trip through the Ap-
palachian mountains last week to deter-
mine if hunger really exists in the United
States. After touring the Biltmore House
in Asheville, N.C., Falwell exclaimed,
“There are no poor people around here.
With a guy like Vanderbilt here, Ap-
palachia has been one of the richest areas
of the whole country for years!”

Senator Ted Kennedy of Mas-
sachusetts has decided once again to run
for the 1988 Democratic Presidential
nomination. Saying, “I couldn’t make up
my mind, but now | believe every mur-
derer is entitled to a second chance,”
Kennedy has begun soliciting contrib-
utions for his campaign from Right to
Life coalitions across the country. Ken-
nedy has also asked the E.F. Hutton com-
pany and former Vice-President Spiro T.
Agnew to run his campaign.

Kaddafi-Reagan pact, gas drops to 35.9¢

President Reagan recently promised
Congress that the budget could be easily
balanced within three weeks if it would
“let me have a stab at it.” Reagan has of-
fered to reduce the budget by increasing
military expenditures so that the Penta-
gon can have enough money to covertly
fund the C.I.A. in operations in several
small countries in Central America and
Southern Africa. Reagan’s plan calls for
an overthrow of the treasuries of
Nicaragua, Angola, and Mozambique,
and a covert airlift of the finances of these
treasuries into the United States for
safekeeping.

Finally, Secretary of Defense Caspar
Weinberger said the Defense Department
will begin marketing new $600 toilet seat
covers for sale to the general public.
Commenting on the new policy, Wein-
berger said, ‘‘We want to demonstrate to
the public how well-designed these toilet
seat covers really are.” The Defense de-
partment will use $400 price tag labels to
market the toilet seats.

Thought for the Week —“'| really didn't
know what was going on.” — Ronald
Wilson Reagan, on the deployment of ap-
proximately 250 marine forces in Leba-
non, who were subsequently murdered
by terrorists.

PTL purchases Davidson campus

By L. RON HUBBARD

The PTL club, a Charlotte-
based religious resort organiza-
tion, has decided to purchase the
Davidson campus for use as a va-
cation spot.

The Rev. Jim Bakker, presi-
dent of PTL, said, “We figured
that we'd put a little 500-room
hotel in front of that Chambers
building, run a monorail out to
Main Street, and turn the DCPC
into a new sound stage.” Bakker
also mentioned plans to turn Belk
dorm into “a second crystal
palace.”

PTL’s takeover shouldn’t hurt
Davidson academic life, though,
said Davidson Dean of Students
Will Terry. ‘Student life should
actually improve,” said Terry,
“because tuition will be free. Any-
body who makes a small donation
— say, $25,000 — will be able to
attend. That shouldn’t be any
problem for, well, the Hods. for
example.”

Bakker said that there will be a
few changes in area course re-

)

Podunk

—SSSDSLDLLL LG LG GID FIFI IIIS

School

quirements for Davidson stu-
dents. “We’ll require courses in
Bible, Jesus, God, The Good
Book, Christ, The Prince of
Peace, and all that sort of stuff,”
he said. ‘We'll also encourage a
big emphasis on creative financ-
ing and television production.
Tammy Fay will offer a makeup
application course.”

Bakker said that _ further
changes in the curriculum will in-
clude courses on interior decorat-
ing, direct mail, and the works of
Billy Graham and Oral Roberts.

Bakker will also work with the
college administration to reor-
ganize the faculty and _ staff.
“We've got to get rid of that guy
— what’s his name Ratliff,”
Bakker whispered. “I’ve heard
he’s serious about foreign aid. We
can’t have that. We look at foreign
missions like, well, like Burger
King looks at Herb.”

He mentioned future plans for
a “Patterson Amusement Court”
to include a Praise God ferris
wheel, a St. Paul roller coaster,

University

of

Swimming Pool Management

and a Jesus Christ ‘Walk on
Water” slide. “Anybody who
makes a small donation — say,

$50 — will be able to ride on all
the rides. There won’t be any exc-
lusion; you'll still be able to self-
select into whichever ride you
want,” Bakker said.

Tammy Fay Bakker, Jim Bak-
ker’s wife, said that the Bakker
family houseboat will be berthed
on Lake Norman as a temporary
home for the Bakker family.
“We've given all our savings to
PTL, and we can’t afford a hotel
room when we come up here to do
the show,” she said. “We donated
the Lincoln, the Mercedes, the
Corvette, and Tammy Sue didn’t
get the plush seats in her Jaguar —
but I just had to keep my chin-
chilla coat. It’s hard to stay warm
when you’re on a diet.”

She added, “‘It’s difficult to do
the Lord’s work when you don't
have a place to get made up.”

The PTL takeover should pro-
vide some welcome changes in the
Davidson cultural life. Tammy

Beautiful Bakker family.

said, “Pat Boone, Slim Whitman,
and Jim Nabors are all going to
give concerts in the re-named ‘His
Love’ Auditorium next year.
We'll also get Oral and Richard
Roberts to take part in the lecture
series. We think everybody'll
love it, especially since there was
such support for Michael W.
Smith last year.”

Tammy added, “We'll also
start a new weight-reduction sup-
port group. And we'll get rid of

that Women’s Concern Commit-
tee. They're so icky.”

Jim Bakker outlined plans to
open a number of new shops on
Main Street. “We'll have a crystal
shop, a travel agency, and a tan-
ning salon,” said Bakker. “Of
course, we'll keep most of the old
shops. Like Norton. Tammy's
been getting her hair done at Nor-
ton’s for years, and we both think
his hairstyles really improve her
on-camera personality.”

iy}

will be on Davidson’s campus looking for 4
Economics or Physical Education majors inter-
ested in becoming managers of low-income
neighborhood swimming pools. The career re-

quires deication and willingness to live in sub-

72

little brats who have a propensity to yell pro-
fanities at you. See Ken Woods for further infor-

and WSI.

N
standard housing combined with a temperance of

mation on this exciting occupational opportunity.
Must have CPR training, Lifesaving Certification

SDD LLL LLL LL SLD DSL SOA AI LAS ALA LAD I ALD LILI LILI SSAAPAPAA AAAI AD AIA AAL AA A A ADS DS Lae SA DAW
