THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager , Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Divestment

Today the finance committee of the Board of Trustees will make a
recommendation on the issue of divestment from South Africa to the
whole Board. The trustees’ decision concerns apartheid-ridden South
Africa. Yet the decision will have far more impact on another institution:
Davidson College.

Apartheid is an evil almost universally opposed in the United States.
However, divestment as a possible solution polarizes the emotional out-
rage of those in favor against the cold withdrawal of those opposed.

Yesterday’s open forum held by the Trustee Finance Committee
st.owed how divided Davidson is on the issue of divestment. Student
‘views ranged from emotional calls for divestment on moral grounds to li-
kening divestment to “Pilate’s washing his hands of the crucifixion.”
Economics professors gave widely different assesments of how best to
use Davidson’s miniscule “clout” in the war on apartheid.

When the trustees consider whether or not to retain its investments in
South Africa, we urge them to base their decision on how Davidson as an
institution, not a balance sheet or a collection of diverse political views,
would view the issue. " |

For guidance on this issue we checked Davidson’s “Statement of
Purpose.” On the issue of apartheid, the “Statement” makes two impor-
tant points. One, that Davidson is tied closely to the Presbyterian
Church, which heartily encourages divestment; and that “The primary
loyalty of the College extends beyond the bounds of denomination to the
Christian Community as a whole, through which medium it would seek
to serve the world.” Economic support of a brutal, racist regime hardly

-—seems a Christ-like policy and fails to serve the oppressed in South Af-
rica.

The second point in the “Statement of Purpose” that concerns apar-
theid states, “Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of
humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian

—gharacter for fullives of leadership, of service; and of self-fulfillment-* Against the point that rejection

Continued investment in South Africa, in contrast, is inhumane, uncrea-

tive, unChristian and lacks any hint of leadership, service or self-fulfill-

ment.

ON

Divestment is a statement. It is a way for Davidson to take a stand

_ against the oppression of blacks in South Africa, and thereby standing

against the oppression of minorities everywhere. Davidson’s divestment

will not hurt the college financially and it probably won’t even effect the

government of South Africa. But it does do something: it expresses our
_moral indignation of the horrific situation into which blacks are forced.

Some would counter that financial leverage, using our money as
power, is the only way to bring about change. Many major monetary
powers have tried that before, and nothing has come of the efforts.
Surely the relatively small holdings Davidson has will not be able to
coerce, cajole or convince Botha’s regime that their suppression is
wrong.

e

It may be Davidson vs. Goliath, but the pebble of divestment is our
only weapon and taking up “arms” benefits the college morally.

We urge the trustees to take a conscientious look at their investments
and to realize that divestment will most likely do no harm and also has the
chance to do some good. Take a stand now: putting off the decision will °
only further apartheid.

Friday, October 3, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Fraternities

To the Editors:

In Steve Soud’s article, “A Call for
the, Abolition of Fraternities,” Soud
blames fraternities for the immaturity of
students. Fraternities “thwart individual
expression and erect barriers . . . and
make Jack immature.”

Sour grapes? Maybe. Should we take
Soud’s indictment of fraternities seri-
ously? No. The weakness of his support-
ing arguments forbids us.

fraternity is not wrong since rejection is a
fact of life, he says, “Davidson College is
not trying to create a real-world atmos-
phere,” rather, one “for learning, free
from real-world problems.” That’s the

dream behind Disneyland! Davidson is a

one way ticket to the world. If I’m not
being confronted by real world problems,
then what am I doing here!?

He says that fraternities erect barriers
that endanger unity at Davidson. “The
job. of the Christian,” he cries, “is to
break down the barriers created by
human society!” That no barriers exist
between people is a point to be accepted
when the Christian learns of God’s uni-
versal love. It’s not a battle cry but a reve-
‘lation. If he is drawing a comparison be-
tween fraternities and ethnic or religious
prejudicés; he will have to try a little har-
dr. = |

Soud believes that fraternities cause
immaturity and that if fraternities were
abolished, then immaturity would be
abolished. Does he really believe this?
This is, at least, where his logic takes us.

I get the feeling that Soud is describ-
ing a world that bears vety little resem-
blance to the one conventionally: ac-

cepted as real.

I am of the opposite opinion. Frater-
nities put us in contact with a wide range
of people. We discover who we are by
reacting both positively and negatively to
them. Fraternities don’t cause immatur-
ity. Instead, they. rise out of our need to
mature and even encourage the matura-
tion process. It’s all perfectly natural.

I do thank Soud for reprinting his arti-
cle last week. With opposition like his, I
can predict a bright. future for our frater-
nities. Carry on, men!

Stan Armistead

— CROP .

To the Editors: -

The Annual Davidson CROP Walk
will begin Sunday, Oct. 12, at 2 p.m. at
the Davidson Town Green (across Con-
cord Rd. from DCPC). As usual, the
Walk will cover approximately 10
kilometers, or 6 miles. The donations—
walkers collect from their sponsors help
fight hunger here in Davidson and
abroad.

CROP is the hunger appeal arm of \
Church World Service, which is 40 years .

id this year—Around the world;CROP—
seeks to alleviate the misery of hunger
and poverty that many people suffer.
Hunger is a real problem: in many parts
of the world, lack of safe drinking water
kills half of the children before they turn
five, and nearly one billion people suffer
from malnutrition.

~ CROP sends assistance to more than~

70 nations. This aid emphasizes local
participation, self-help, and long-term
solutions. Some of the programs CROP
finances are’ family and community
health, human resources development,
food production, and development edu-
cation.

Twenty-five percent of the money

Continued on page ! 1

