THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
T:m Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Dedication

This past Monday the Davidson community lost one of its most re-
spected members, Dr. James B. Woods Jr. ’18. During his 47 years in
Davidson Woods served the college as physician for 27 years, served the
town as a general practitioner, and served the community as a friend and
benefactor. He died at home of an illness which had confined him since
January.

His long career reflected his steadfast devotion to the needs of others.
He went beyond merely treating the physical symptoms, he was an inter-
ested friend and a concerned member of the community.

‘The most important thing is to take care of sick people and try to get
them straightened out and back to health. This is more important than
money,” Woods once said. His selfless devotion to the ethics of his pro-
fession transcended material concerns. Economics professor Charles
Ratliff noted that Woods disliked the red tape of federally-funded medi-
cal care. “Instead of filling out Medicare forms, he just didn’t charge the
poor anything,” Ratliff said.

Woods was raised in China and got his first view of the United States
in 1914, when he enrolled in Davidson College. His love of China
brought him back there as a missionary after he earned his M.D. degree
from the Medical College of Virginia. After six months of intensive lan-
guage school training in Peking, Woods began a fifteen-year term of
duty at a hospital in Chin Kiong.

His work as a missionary was post-graduate training experience, un-
paralleled by formal schooling. “There were no Chinese doctors about.
We treated everything under the sun. I learned more there about
medicine than I could have anywhere else,” Woods said. A course he
took in London on tropical diseases allowed him to diagnose malaria ear-
lier this year in economics professor Clark Ross. .

He took the job as College Physician in 1942. While caring for stu-
dents, faculty and staff, Woods also extended his efforts to the communi-
ty through his private practice. He delivered babies, maintained office
hours and made house calls. He was constantly busy, making as many as
seven calls in one night.

Woods’ life was dedicated to service, and from that dedication we
can all learn something. He had a strong sense of duty to God, the col-
lege, and his profession. He did not live his life for himself, but for
others. He was a strong man who made others healthy, both physically
and spiritually.

We mourn the loss of Dr. James Woods Jr.
that his sense of service will remain.

, but are secure in the fact

Q. WHICH ARE MORE
NUMEROUS ?

CL) 1.

THESE LITTLE
POSTERS

x
\

THE CANDIDATES
FOR HONOR
COUNCIL

| “a Mh i

|| a

THE TEETH IN
DEAN TERRY’S

AM

HEY! MR. DEAN! |
IT'S OK. YOU FF
RAN A CLOSE
SECOND... i
BEHIND THE
TIE » or course, ‘

i"

wil)

i j

a
i ‘ ‘ ‘A

MA

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Jeff
Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Margot Mims

Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee
Eichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston

Sports Staff: Darryl Bego, Emil Cekada, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Pet-
ranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kris Kost,
Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters from its readers. We
try to print all letters of gen-

eral interest, but we will
adhere to the ' following
guidelines:

-The letters must be sub-
mitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday
before expected publication
date.

‘The letters
neatly typed.

must be

‘The letters should be
signed. You must have a
compelling reason if you do
not want your name printed
with the letter.

‘We reserve the right not
to print.letters which are ad-
vertisements, contain inside
jokes or off-color slurs, or
represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed
on the same topic.

Letters Policy

Davidsonian’ s
“Opinions” section is the
only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on perti-
nent issues. We will print
opinions on any subject of
general interest we receive
from the campus community.
We adhere to the following
guidelines:

‘Any opinion should be
in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday
before publication, unless it
is typed on IBM diskette, in
which case it is due 5 p.m.
Tuesday.

‘We accept typed and
legibly-written articles only.

‘Opinions should be

signed. We will only print
unsigned ones if there is a
compelling reason and the
author is known to us (the
editors).

‘We will not edit opin-
ions for content or style, but
for common English usage
only. We will inform the au-
thor of substantial changes.

‘Because of limited
space, sometimes we are not
able to print all opnions sub-
mitted in one issue. We re-
serve the right to select arti-
cles from those we receive
for publication. We will at-

tempt to print any withheld
article the following week

