Friday, May 9, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

13

Student-professor interaction not missing

Marianthe Colakis

I would like to offer a few thoughts from the other side
of the lectern in response to “Wasted evenings are the best
kind of education” by William Naso. I agree with him that
forming friendships is an important a part of college life as
acquiring book knowledge, and that the dialogue is
superior to the lecture as a method of teaching. But I am
disturbed by the contrast he poses: over here, the class with
a traditional lecture format, where nothing of importance
takes place between apathetic students and dogmatic pro-
fessors, over there, the out-of-classroom discussion alive
with exchange of ideas.

I know that such professors as he describes exist: those
whose “teaching” consists of leading the students to their
own point of view. I have had them myself; I remember
particularly one I had in graduate school that the students
dubbed “Boredom Williams” (his first name was Gordon).
But most other professors do not decide at some point that
they now have “the answer” and no further discussion is
needed. Even in my own field, where a mutilated papyrus
scrap with five lines of verse is hailed as a major discovery,
scholars are constantly alert for new work promising fresh
insights. The footnotes in this work (always read those
footnotes!) will often credit students for ideas. I will always
remember the insights that emerged from a discussion on
the meaning of these lines in the greek poet Karyotakis:
“death is the women who make love/ As if they were peel-
ing onions.” I had thought of “peeling onions” only as a
metaphor for a boring household chore; I hadn’t considered
the implications of the fact that onions make you cry.

I don’t expect many in-depth discus-
sions to take place at parties 9

If professors seem excessively fond of their own opin-
ions, the reason is usually that they have invested more
time and thought in the subject than most students. I cer-
tainly believe that everyone can learn from everyone else.
Here, in no particular order, are some subjects on which |
have learned things from students: English folk tales, real
estate investments, neuromuscular disorders, prayer yarn,
underwater treasure hunting, local ghost stories,
Hieronymus Bosch, and monastic Buddhism. But I’m
elitist enough to believe that certain people have more to

offer others on certain subjects. If a professor relinguishes
all claim to be a guide in his or her area of expertise, I doubt
that students will be happier. In an article titled “depression
in the seminary ,” Henri Nouwen writes, “It might even be
possible that many forms of liberalization . . . are felt by
the students to be testimony of the incapacity to offer mean-
ingful structures on the side of the staff. Many seminarians,
who have participated in year-long discussions on about
every possible basic subject are showing signs of fatigue,
disappointment, and even hostility. Some even feel
cheated, as if they had wasted their time groping with ques-

tions which don’t lead anywhere and are doomed to create’

frustration.” While professors should not be authoritarian,
they should be authoritative.

I would also suggest that possible answers to the “im-
portant questions” Mr. Naso mentions are more likely to be
answered in the classroom or by professors outside the
classroom than by students among themselves alone. |
don’t expect many in-depth discussions to take place at par-
ties with loud music and abundant liquor, but I leave con-
sideration of this matter to those who have attended more
campus parties than I have. I will only point out that discus-
sions among sober students unhampered by music have pit-
falls of their own. In most of my conversations with fellow
students in my own school days, the participants didn’t
seem particularly interested in understanding others’ point
of view or helping them clarify it; they were chiefly con-
cerned with formulating and expressing their own views.
Once agan, the guidance of someone would have been wel-
come.

Educators themselves are aware of the need to provide
something other than content of knowledge; practically
every college's statement of purpose contains some refer-
ence to values that the college hopes to foster. Various
methods have recently emerged for inquiring into and de-
veloping students’ values — not indoctrinating them into a
particular set of values, but helping them understand what
they truly believe. Obviously it’s unrealistic to expect the
external questions to be answered in, for example, a course
in Beginning Spanish or Organic Chemistry. But courses
that address ethical problems — particularly in law,
medicine, and business — are being created that did not
exist ten years ago. For more information on this please see
Richard L. Morrill’s Teaching Values in College. But it’s a
mistake to dismiss the learning of ‘‘facts” as useless in
searching for answers. Ever since the sixties, teachers have
been emphasizing “ideas” above all else, with the result
that students acquire very firm opinion often based on
flimsy or inaccurate knowledge.

I mentioned at the outset that I agree with Mr. Naso on

the advantages of the Socratic method. Yet Socrates prac-
ticed it principally within a very small circle of upper-class
young men; to adopt it universally at Davidson would
necessitate cutting at least two-thirds of the student body.
Even if this were feasible, we would require students to
take a highly active role in their own learning. I believe
many at Davidson are willing to take such a role, but many
others are not. I have heard students complain that classes
don’t have enough discussion; I have also heard professors
complain that students are too passive and it’s impossible to
engender any discussion among them. Can't someone find
a way to bring all of these discussion-cravers together?

G Here are some subjects on which I
have learned things from students: En-
glish folk tales, real estate investment,
neuromouscular disorders, prayer
yarn, underwater treasure hunting,
local ghost stories, Hieronymus Bosch
and monastic Buddhism

Who are the students who derive the least from the Soc-
ratic method in the classroom? Usually they ar the ones
who were too busy partying the night before — 11 the name
of healthy social development, of course — to prepare the
day's assignment. These students would not respond if
Socrates himself tried to instruct them. We see the results
of a long night with much wine at the end of Plato's Sym
posium: “There remained only Socrates, Aristophanes, and
Agathon, who were drinking out of a large goblet which
they passes round, and Socrates was discoursing to them
Aristodemus was only half awake, and he did not hear the
beginning of the discourse, the chief thing which he re-
membered was Socrates compelling the other two to ac-
kowledge that the genius of comedy was the same with that
of tragedy, and that the true artist in tragedy was an artist in
comedy also. To this they were constrained to assent, being
drowsy, and not quite following the argument. And first of
all Aristophanes dropped off, then, when the day was al-
ready dawning, Agathon.”

Believe it or not, professors too can become frustrated
by the limitations of the lecture format and welcome oppor-
tunities for more spontaneous contact with students. [can't
speak for all professors, but I'm either in my office or in the
library most afternoons. I'll have a dialogue with anyone
who seeks me out.

Colakis is an assistant professor of classics

Athletic department should reconsider football policy

Coleen Bairas

Whatever possessed Kit Morris to stand in front of an
open discussion to discuss Davidson’s athletic program is
an enigma to me. It undeniably took guts. He knew, and ad-
mitted that he knew, before he stepped into the Big Screen
Room Monday night that the meeting wouldn't be a pleas-
ure, just as he know that taking the job as Davidson’s Ath-
letic Director 16 months ago would not be easy. The meet-
ing wasn’t and the job isn’t.

There were two major issues Morris was expected to
address: 1) Davidson’s “un-status” regarding a conference
and 2) the recent overhaul of the women’s athletic pro-
gram. He sort of addressed both. For the unaware reader,
Davidson has most grievouly offended the Southern Con-
ference with a pompous snub, and they are not very keen on
the idea of letting us join their ranks again. Morris intends
on moving football to the Colonial League, and the other

sports into the Colonial Athletic Association. However, the
' CAA isa stable league, and the addition of an “odd” team Is
not favorable to them. Also, most of the Colonial teams are
schools of rather distant geography — Lehigh, Cornell,
and assorted Ivy Leagues. Right now we are no more than a
lost sheep, and even if we are found, the grazing land avail-
able isn’t all that fantastic.

In addressing women’s sports, I am sure that some
people are unhappy. However, only one person, a non-stu-
dent, was present who decried the lowering of the female
basketball team to the club sport level. I agree with Morris
on his changes in women’s sports, even the desperation-or-

ganization of a women’s golf team (which looks promis-
ing) and the already established club women’s volleyball
gaining varsity status. The most annoying aspect of Morris’
treatment of the women’s program was his shunning of the
question regarding the fund allocation percentages split be-
tween men’s and women’s sports. He said he didn't know
the information off-hand. The guy asking the question per-
sisted, asking if he could just give a breakdown rounded off
in tens, like a 60 percent/40 percent or so. Morris said he
couldn’t. His inability to answer the question was either
gross neglect on his part, or his hidden refusal to answer it,
because of his disaste of confrontation. (The strategically
scheduled discussion met in the eighth week of the term,
when most students were working on papers or reviews, or
were watching North and South.)

My main bone of contention with Morris regards his
all-or-nothing stance on football scholarships. The propo-
sal of the maximum number of scholarships, 70, is obvi-
ously not feasible for Davidson. There can be no argument
there. However, twenty scholarhsips would be a tremend-
ous aid to the team. Presently. need-based aid is available,
but it is closely monitored. Therefore, the players coming
to play for Davidson have to be intelligent enough to be ac-
cepted and to handle the work load once they are in, athleti-
cally talented enough to handle the tough competition,
wealthy enough to afford the tuition with meager aid, and
dedicated and disciplined enough to balance their academic
and athletic schedules successfully and to “do without”
some amenities that they could have afforded had they gone
elsewhere. This student/athlete is a rare bird, and without a
lowering of one of these standards, these exotic creatures
will not present themselves on the Davidson campus.
Academics cannot be lowered, athletic talent can't be low-

ered, and all that is left is the monetary factor. Allowing
twenty scholarships would give us five very talented stu-
dents per class to work with in football. Twenty is just two
men shy of a first-string offense and defense. Twenty sepa-
rated equally by class, would assure outstanding talent in
every class and not a concentration of talent or size in just
one class. Morris tried to convince those of us present that a
player of true character would be willing to make the sac-
rifices Davidson requires, and that by offering scholarships
we will not be getting players of the same “fabric” as we
have now. I disagree. A student who chooses a school of-
fering him a scholarhsip is not necessarily a greedy, self-
serving young man, but perhaps one who is thinking of his
family, and the pressures they may suffer because of his
choice.

I agree with Morris that stadium lights are a necessity.
Practices, worked around labs, are off-campus two-three
times a week, and night games would certainly help build
fan support. Some definite action should be taken in this di-
rection.

Morris said, “Sometimes you go out and give it your
best effort and you lose. It shows your strength of character
in how you lose.” Losing does take character, that is ad-
missable. However, I hate for such a negative focus to take
hold of the Athletic Department. The statement is quotable ,
but its downcast focus is one that has been plaguing David-
son athletics and needs to be exterminated. I hope that Mr.
Morris learmed just as much as I did from the discussion. |
appreciate his effort, and I hope that he appreciates the stu-
dents’ efforts, because we do want improvement just as
much as he does.
