~*

10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

NCAA tickets.

Originally this editorial was meant to chide the athletic department,
the ticket office, the Wildcat Club and anyone else we could think of for
the meager amount of tickets alloted to students and the confusion sur-
rounding the cost of those tickets. At the beginning of the week, the rules
for the student “lottery” were that each student could sign up for one or
two tickets, each priced at $45, and that only 100 tickets would be avail-
able. Later the students learned they could buy tickets for just one session
and thereby pay only $15.

The manner in which tickets were distributed hurt students in two
ways. First, many students did not sign-up for the lottery because they
felt that $45 was too much money for five basketball games when at least
three did not involve Davidson. By getting straight facts earlier, more
students would have made an effort to see Friday’s game. Second, con-
sidering that Davidson as a whole originally received 250 tickets, the stu-
dent body, a group that we hope still matters at Davidson, gota paltry cut
of the NCAA pie. Certainly the hierarchy of the school and the Wildcat
Club fat-cats should get their share of tickets. Yet the students should
have received at least half of the original allotment of tickets.

Thanks to the diligent efforts of the ticket office, we now have little
to complain about: Davidson has since secured an additional 340 tickets
for students and has held a “secondary” lottery in which most of the en-
trants have come away winners. Though even these extra tickets do not
ensure that every student will be able to attend the Wildcats’ NCAA ad-
venture, enough are in circulation to allow the “serious” fan to procure
one.

The encouraging point concerning the NCAA ticket controversy lies
in the enthusiasm shown by students, faculty, administrators and fans in
general for the basketball program. Hopefully this new found en-
thusiasm will extend beyond this year’s excursion to the NCAA’s.

For those fans going to Friday’s showdown with Kentucky, here are
some simple, but crucial, guidelines.

1) Arrive on time. This won’t be hard: the Davidson-Kentucky game
is the second of a double header.

2) Wear red or something with “Davidson” written on it if at all possi-
ble. Do not wear blue under any circumstances because that is Ken-
tucky’s color.

3) Since Davidson was undefeated in Johnston Gym this year, some-
one had the foresight to put up a banner that read “Welcome to Johnston
Gym” at the Southern Conference tournament as an aid toward winning
the title. Bring similar banners to the Charlotte Coliseum Friday.

4) Finally, make noise at all times during the game. The Charlotte
Coliseum outsizes Johnston Gym by about 9,000 seats. Therefore
Davidson fans must be louder than usual to be heard as easily. No matter
what the score, make noise in order to keep the momentum going or build
it back up again. If your voice gets rough, clap.

Friday, March 14, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

~

SORRY SON, I’M SURE YOU'D
MAKE A FINE QUARTER BACK,
BuT WE NEED SOMEONE TALLER
BECAUSE BILLINGS HERE LIWES

TO HIKE THE BALL EXTRA HIGH. |

1

Letters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi
Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson, David Williams

Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Lee Eichelberger,
Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson

Sports Staff: Darry! Bego, Emil Cekada, Pam Harmann

Photography Staff: Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Petranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt
Production Staff: Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kris Kost, Kim Robertson,
Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Laure Van Dierdonck

NC Fellows

To The Editor:

As one who applied, but was not
selected as an NC Fellow, I feel that my
opinions concerning this organization
should be heard by both students and ad-
ministration. The goal of the program is “to
develop leadership potential in students.”
From my observations, this goal is only
being reached by a small number of our Fel-
lows. Because Davidson selects only 10 out
of about 70 sophomores who try out, stu-
dents who are chosen may feel that the bat-
tle is over once selected. The problem, as |
see it, is that all of those 10 are not accept-
ing the responsibilities that come with such
an appointment. It seems that they may be
content just to be in this selective group.
Our NC Fellows may have good excuses for
their lack of participation. They are unim-
portant; the fact is there are participation
problems.

Davidson needs to re-eyaluate the way
it chooses its NC Fellows. This feeling was
enforced when I learned that the February
retreat on leadership ethics in Asheboro was
attended by only three Davidson students.
Surely Davidson can devise a system which
would encourage better paricipatian of its
“leaders.” My proposal is to invite the en-
tire student body to participate in the NC
fellows program. UNCC runs their leader-
ship program in this fashion. If we adopted

such a system, I feel that the NC Fellows
program and the entire student body would
benefit.

G. Ollie Wagner

Tennis

To The Editor:

We would like to express our collective
appreciation for the series of fine tennis
clinics recently organized and conducted by
Coaches Jeff Frank and Caroline Brown for
the Davidson faculty and staff and their
spouses. We are also very grateful to the
members of the men’s and women’s teams
— Emily Berman, Gallo Cabrales, Craig
Hall, Martha Johnson, Angela Rudert,
Libby Sanders and Jim Thompson (have we
forgotten anyone?) — who graciously de-
voted their energy, expertise and Saturday
mornings to the arduous task of trying to
teach old dogs (well, not that old...) new
tricks. A warm thanks from all these old
dogs! Te

Professors E. Edmondson

D. Martin

L. Ortmayer

E. Palmer

M. Polley

A. Singerman

H. Sutton

P.S. Have you all tried the new tennis cen-
ter yet? It’s the best $1 deal in the country!
