4 |

Beyond Davidson
~_Reagan-Gorbach

(By DAVID WILLIAMS
Around the World — President
Reagan’s meeting with Soviet leader
Mikhael Gorbachev in Reykjavik, Ice-
land ended in a deadlock Sunday as
Reagan refused to comply with Gor-
bachev’s demand that the U.S. refrain
from deploying and testing space-based
weapons for ten years. Reagan said he is
ready to resume negotiations, but Gor-
bachev said Reagan had lacked courage
and political will at Reykjavik to make
progress in arms control.

A United Nations official said the last
five of the 25 Soviet diplomats ordered
expelled by the United states have left
New York for Moscow.

American Eugene Hasenfus, who
was captured in Nicaragua while making
supply flights to Nicaraguan rebels, said
the C.I.A. is directly involved in the
flights. Published reports said that Vice-
President George Bush’s security ad-
visor, Max Gomez, had coordinated the
flights. Bush affirmed Gomez’ link to the
flights but denied any personal involve-
ment.

A strong earthquake measuring 5.4
on the Richter scale toppled several
buildings in San Salvador, El Salvador,
killing over 400 people and injuring 6500
more.

ah,

French President Francois Mitterand

said he does not intend to run for reelec- ‘

tioh in 1988. Belgian Prime Minister
Wilfried Martens offered his resignation
to King Baudouin after failing to resolve

a language dispute. Two masked assas- ,

sins shot and killed West German For-
eign Ministry official Gerold von Braun-
muelat at his home in Bonn. The extreme
leftist Red Army Faction claimed respon-
sibility for the killing.

Two U.S. citizens jailed in Yugos-_

lavia on protest-related charges were re-
leased by the Yugoslavian government.
The State department said a third prisoner
would soon be released.

Bangladeshi president H.M. Ershad
was teelected by a margin of nearly 90
percent, as opponents boyotted the Presi-
dential election amid indications of wide-
spread fraud and corruption.

The government of Taiwan said it
would lift martial law for the first time
since Chiang Kai-Shek’s troops retreated
there in 1949.

Iran said its ground and airborne mili-
tary units devastated oil fields, a power
station, and key installations near Kirkuk
in northern Iraq, in a bid to cripple Iraq’s
economic lifeline. Iraq said its planes hit
Shiraz and Isfahan in Iran.

Ehe Wiesel, who-survived Nazi death

_CONNESTICON ‘

‘Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”

____892-9046___

Delivanng to

— 4 ____41 ; a _ = : ——_—
—-Mon. - Thurs.14:00-a.m. - 10:00 pm.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
—Sunday—4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.

a

camps and has written extensively on the -

holocaust, was awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize. Three European scientists won the
Nobel Prize in physics for their innova-
tions in microscope designs. Two Ameri-
cans and a Canadian were awarded the
Nobel Prize in chemistry for helping to
create the first detailed understanding of
chemical reactions.

Across the Nation — The House
approved a $576 billion compromise ap-
propriation bill which would increase
Federal spending in 1987 by as little as
one percent over 1986. The bill includes
a military budget of $290 billion, $30 bil-
lion less than the President requested.
The House, also approved a compromise
immigration bill that outlaws the hiring
of illegal aliens.

The Senate found federal District
Judge Harry Claiborne guilty of income
tax evasion and removed him from office
in the first impeachment conviction of a
Federal official in 50 years. The Senate
also approved a comprehensive $1.7 bil-
lion anti-drug bill.

A panel of experts said a fleet of four
space shuttles could reach a sustainable
rate of only 11 to 13 flights a year, instead
of the 16 flights a year currently proposed

by NASA. The panel urged NASA to ex-

Friday, October 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

s

eeting ends in stalemate

plore new designs and expressed “serious
concern” about the adequacy of the test-
ing program. -

Bernadette Chayrez, the only person
to receive two artificial hearts, died
Saturday as doctors tried to.implant asec- |
ond human heart in her eighth coronary
operation since February.

In Business News — Oil prices
dropped to $14.60 a barrel, as OPEC
ministers failed to reach an-agreement on
a price-support plan. Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait issued appeals for a permanent
production and pricing program.

The nation’s top business executives
predicted the economy will grow by just -
2.7 percent this year, while the dollar will
drop by ten percent more than jt has al-
ready fallen. Commerce Secretary Mal-
colm Baldrige said the U.S. trade deficit
is currently headed for a record $170 bil-
lion trade deficit this year.

The Transportation Department ten-
tatively approved Texas Air’s acquisition
of People Express.

Wholesale prices rose 0.4 percent
while retail sales soared by 4.6 percent in
September. New car sales rose 22.6 per-
cent above last year for the first ten days
of October.

Featuring

Hand Rolled and lossed Pizza (Made While You Watch)
Pizza by the Slice (Until 4pm)
Submarine Sandwiches © Homemade Meatbalt Sandwiches
Italian Sausage Sandwiches © Tossed Salads

PHONE IN OR TO-GO ORDERS WELCOMED

663-7189 ~

125-2 N. Main St. in The Markade (Behind Magic Rental) Mooresville

Mon.-Thurs. 1 ham-10pm

Fri. & Sat. 1lam-12(midnight) _
2 Blocks down from What-A-Burger.
If you pass Belk, you’ve gone too far.

Sun. 5-10pris
¢

