10

THE DAVIDSONIAN —

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
“Will Thomason, Business Manager é
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Demons

As Allhallows Eve of 1986 has suddenly come upon us, we have
noticed a number of local demons disturbing our generally tranquil col-
lege.

One is the move of Convocation from Friday to Saturday morning. If
parties on Thursday night hurt Convocation attendance, what havoc will
Friday night parties wreak on the turnout this year? Moving Convocation
to Saturday will not limit class-cutting as students will use the cuts saved
this Friday at s6me other time. Having Convocation on Saturday forces
administrators and faculty to spend precious free time on extra job de-
mands and robs the scholarly students of a morning of well-earned rest

and the lazy student of crucial Saturday catch-up time. Why not save ev- :

eryone a lot of grief and move Convocation back to Friday?
Overly-influencial alumni haunt the College with constant com-
plaints and demands tied to gifts of money. This is not to say all or even
‘ most alumni hurt the college in this manner. Most give genorously to
Davidson out of a love for the college. Some, however, refuse to under-

stand that Davidson is for students, not former students. Too many deci- |

_sions are made on the basis of some big donors’ whims rather than the
feelings of students, much less the faculty and administrators, David-
son’s permenant residents. The Southern Conference-exit debacle is a
prime example of student opinion being ignored by alumni and trustee
football fanaticism. Alumni, we hope you enjoy returning to your alma
mater and come visit us often; but please contain your “help” in determ-
ing school policy to suggestions rather than demands.

Speaking of ghosts, the spectre of Charles G. “Lefty” Driesell has

dominated national sports headlines lately. Driesell, who is solely re-
sponsible for establishing Davidson’s “basketball tradition,” recently
resigned his coaching position at Maryland in light of controversy arising
from the death of player Len Bias. Driesell represents Davidson’s
memorable stint as an athletic power. While Bobby Hussey and players
last year gave a display of what NCAA excitement is like, the nebulous
future of Southern Conference-less sports makes Lefty’s glory days
seem an unattainable dream. |

Finally, the Ghost of Specials Past must bis cringing in agony at the
new M & M Soda Shop. Nachos, french fries and MTV were bad
enough, but changing one of Davidson’s most sacred relics, the Special
sandwich, is going too far. Alteration in the egg salad, ham and lettuce
make going to, the M & Man pci rather than enjoyable experi-
ence.
Yes, it would be nice to return from a Friday convocation to a Spe-
cial — full of the old ham, lettuce, and egg salad — inthe good ol’ M &
M Soda Shop knowing full well Davidson athletics had a future full of
possible Southern Conference titles.

However, you’d need a good trick to get those treats.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of- ©
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
ehle on request. Copyright held by the Trustess of Deyideon Coftege.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura
Gabel, David Williams. ©

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, stsve-Mank.

Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins

Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, mer Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yaun. —

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill,
Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall,

: ' Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kim Robertson, saat Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wil-
’ kins, Ben Yarbrough.
Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall. ae , =

Friday, October 31 , 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN -

Cloudt’s View

BRING THE

(OH AND MOM,
DONT LET DAD

~HE-MAN COSTUME
AGAIN THIS YEAR 0

©1957.
THE BAVIDSONIAN

To the Editors: -

We would like to express our displea-
sure at the quality of writing that passes for

“Feature” journalism. Specifically, we can- —

not understand how Steve Mank can get
away with his slanderous remarks regarding
thie field hockey team in the Oct. 24 edition
of The Davidsonian.

Mr. Mank derides the violence of the
sport and points to a specific player as a
sadistic perpetrator of that violence. First of

-all, when a game involves a large stick and a

hard ball and is played by strong athletes,
someone gets hurt every once in a while.
Secondly, when a player has worked four
years to perfect her sport, which includes
learning how to “whack the Hell out of the
mother,” she ought to be congratulated for
her courage and ability rather than criticized
for what Steve Mank sees as a desire to
“take out a few of your opponents and have
fun doing it.” After four years of dedication
and hard work, is this what we offer her as
thanks?

If Mr. Mank feels the urge to really un-
derstand field hockey, perhaps he ought to
really talk to a player instead of asking lead-
ing questions like “How many girls do you
take out each game?” that only serve to
ridicule and deride the players of this diffi-
cult sport. Furthermore, he ought not base
his opinions on a single viewing of field
hockey (or anything else for that matter).

Thanks to Mr. Mank there may be a few

more spectators at the next game. Perhaps

. they will be there to watch Heather “whack
= the Hell out of the mother,” but perhaps

they will.be there to support Davidson Col-
lege athletes and not to fling insults at prac-

Letters
Field hockey

ticed, well-conditioned women who lay
their bodies and their pride on the line every
time they walk onto the field.
Michele E. Miller
Jane C. Royal

Misbehavior

- To the Editors:

The restaurants which deliver to the col-
lege are reconsidering their delivery poli-
cies. This is caused by the unwarranted, un-
provoked, ill-mannered behavior of some
Belk residents who perhaps are unaware of
the code of responsibility and state and local
laws.

' Friday night, Oct. 24, one of the Pereg-
rine delivery employees was hit on the back

of the neck by a 32-gallon trash can thrown

from the second floor of Belk, dorm. Due to
his injured back he is missing work. The
man is a Davidson resident, not a student
with parents to help support him. Although
the trash can may not have been thrown
with malicious intent, nonetheless the ac-
tion can be considered a violation of the
code of responsibility and local and state
laws concerning assault - and battery.
Aluminum cans and water balloons have
rained upon our delivery personnel and fel-
low. students before (and after) this inci-

- dent. =

Unless this misbehavior ceases the en-
tire campus will be deprived of delivery ser-
vice because of the actions of the few. ‘In

. our opinion these actions imply a lack of

maturity, common sense, and respect for
fellow human beings.
Please stop these senseless. acts that
have hurt our fellow employee and friend. ©
Beth Bowen '87
B. Michael. Makonnen '88
