4

ery
+

x

; — . —
Beyond Davidson |

|

Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

__U.S.Soviet relations highlight week

By DAVID WILLIAMS __
Headlining the News for Sept. 9-25
NATO and Warsaw Pact negotiators
reached agreement Sunday on a major sé-
curity pact to lessen the risk of war in
Europe. The agreement calls for the two
alliances to give each other detailed ad-
‘vance information about land exercises
and troop. concentrations involving
13,000 or more soldiers or 300 tanks.

Delegates from 74 member nations of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) approved a far-reaching

agenda for trade liberalization tatks,in-——and Shevardnadze met and agreed to con-

cluding discussion of reductions in ag-
ricultural subsidies, restrictions on for-
eign investment, and barriers to trade in
such services as banking and insurance.
President Reagan told the U.N. that
recent arms control exchanges between
the U.S. and the Soviets may signal “the
beginning. of a serious, productive
negotiation on arms reduction.” But
Reagan later told a group of conservative
supporters that the Soviets are a group of
‘relentless adversaries” who are playing
propaganda games” with their calls for a
ban on nuclear testing. Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev proposed that adher-
ence to the 1972 antiballistic missile tre-
aty be extended for “up to 15 years.”
Soviet officials put direct total costs
of the Chernoby] accident at about $2.95
billion. The reactor emitted as much radi-
ation into the air as all the nuclear tests

-and bombs ever exploded, according toa

newly released study.

In a rebuff to President Reagan, Gor-
bachev charged that American journalist
Nicholas Daniloff is a “spy caught red-
handed.” Reagan met with Soviet For-
eign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and_
warmed him that the detention of Daniloff
could block ‘the proposed summit meet-

ing, but Shevardnadze said-Tuesday that
a summit meeting was still a “realistic

possibility.” U.S. and Soviet officials

later discussed a package calling for the
release of Daniloff and several Soviet
dissidents in exchange for Soviet em-
bassy attache Gennadi Zakharov.

~ Two armed Soviet drug addicts at-
tempted to hijack an airliner on the

-~— ground in the city of Ufa, killing two

policemen and two passengers before the
hijackers themselves were shot dead.
Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres

sider normalizing relations between Is-
rael and the Soviet Union. Meanwhile,
Israeli Defense Minister Yatzhik Shamir
told the U.N. that Israel would not dis-
mantle its “security zone” in Lebanon. Is-
rael staged significant troop movements
along the Lebanese border, and on
Wednesday Israeli jets bombed Palesti-
‘nian positions near Beirut. A clandestine
group in Beirut said it has kidnapped
another French citizen and also claimed
responsibility- for the abduction of an
American two weeks ago. French prime
Minister Jacques Chirac said he has no
proof that any government was behind
the recent terrorist bombings in Paris, but
promised a “crushing and unflinching”
response to the perpetrators of the bomb-
‘ings, if they are caught.

Iranian soldiers marked the seventh
year of war against Iraq by marching in
Teheran past crowds chanting “Death to
the U.S.” Iranian leader Khomenei said
Iran would not end the war until President
Saddam Hussein of Iraq was ousted.

Polish Solidarity leader Lech Walesa

held strategy talks Sunday with more
than a dozen senior Solidarity figures. On
Monday, 45,000 workers from all over
Poland gathered in Czestochowa at a

Roman Catholic shrine to join in a reaffir-

mation of the democratic ideals of the ©

Solidarity movement.

About 50. dissidents attempted a
coups on the government of Togo
Wednesday by attacking the military bar-
racks of President Gnassingbe Eyadema
in Lome. The attackers were put down by
security forces.

President Oliver, Tambo of the Afri-
can National Congress (ANC), and Ches-
ter Crocker, the U.S. Assistant Secretary
of State for African affairs, met Wednes-
day in London to discuss how the U.S.
and the ANC can “move forward to resol-
ving” the South African crisis. South Af-
rica’s largest black miners’ union asked
its 250,000 members to stop work on
Oct. .1 to mourn 177 miners killed in last
week’s gold mine fire. On Friday a group
of black police officers led by two whites
shot five blacks to death in Soweto. A
Soviet-designed limpet mine exploded
Wednesday in the Johannesburg home of
a white official responsible for housing
policies in Soweto.

/

Across the Nation — ;

President. Reagan criticized the
House for provisions on arms control it
has added to bills involving military
funding. The Senate approved a budget-
cutting package that would reduce the
1987 federal deficit by $13.3 billion. The
House approved a similar package desig-
ned to reduce the deficit by $15.1 billion.
The White House, which supports the
Senate measures, threatened a veto on the
House’s bill. The House also voted 329-4

™
™.

Then write an opinion for
The Davidsonian

If interested, call Tim.Brown,

a

oS

to strengthen. a Jaw. on chemical pes- -
‘ticides that would affect nearly 50,000
products.

A New Jersey federal judge ruled that“
mandatory urine testing of government
employees for the detection of illegal
drugs is an unconstitutional invasion of
an individual’s right to privacy.

NASA Director James Fletcher an-
nounced that NASA’s space shuttle
schedule will include only 19 launches in
the first three years after the shuttle re-
sumes operations in early 1988. The Fed-
eral Aviation Administration said it
would order installation of collision-
avoidance systems in passenger jets by
1990. . .

A national survey released Wednes-
day shows that 95 out of 100 young adults
can read as well as the average fourth
grader, but the literacy skills of many of
them are very limited.

In Business News —

Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Vol-
cker said the dollar had dropped enough
in relation to currencies of other industri-
al nations and that policy makers should
shift to other tools to redress imbalances
in the world economy.

The gross national product rose only
0.6 percent in the second quarter. The
Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in
August, according to Labor Department
figures. Orders for durable goods fell 2.6
percent in August. Sales of American-
made automobiles rose 1.7 percent in the
Sept. 11-20 period over the correspond-
ing 1985 period.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average
closed Wednesday at 1803.29 points, up
33.89 points from a week ago. Gold
prices rose to $431 an ounce, up $27.50,
‘while silver was $5.913, up 15.7,cents.

