Sports

“The Davidsonian
Friday, January 10,1986

Zi ot

%

Davidson outlasts tenacious Citadel 82-76

By ANDY BARRON

Davidson’s men’s basketball
team opened its Southern Confer-
ence schedule with a strong, but
difficult 82-76 win over the
Citadel last night at Johnston
Gym.

The win makes the Wildcats
8-4 on the year and a perfect 1-0 in
the early run for the conference
title.

For a game that was supposed
to be an easy win (after all, David-
son is picked to finish fourth in the
conference and the Citadel should
fill the cellar), Davidson had a dif-
ficult time shaking the Bulldogs.
In fact, the Citadel held the lead
early in the first half and the
scoreboard read 15-15 with 10:43
left in the first half.

Davidson needed a spark in
the first half and game program
coverboy junior Ace Tanner ig-
nited both the team and the crowd
with several long range jumpers, a

D
fe}
&
a
hs ~ ee roe
Sophomore’ Jeff Himes

moves to a fast break layup
against the Citadel.

couple of crisp assists and plenty
of aerial acrobatics. Even a picky
technical for hanging on the rim
couldn’t stop the red hot Tanner,
who had 12 first half points to lead
Davidson to a 37-32 halftime
lead.

Early in the second _ half,
Davidson finally looked like they
would run away and hide. Again
Tanner lead the charge as a soft
jumper in the lane and a powerful
dunk over two defenders extended
Davidson’s lead to 46-36 with
17:00 to go and forced the Citadel
to call for time.

Sophomore Jeff Himes took
over from Tanner after the time
out with a strong layup on a pass
from, you guessed it, Tanner.
Himes then scored on a fast break

- layup to give the Wildcats their

biggest lead of the game, 50-38.
Yet the Citadel would not roll
over and die. Slowly but surely

they scratched and clawed back
into the game. Davidson's inside
game disappeared and _ the
Wildcats stayed one step ahead of
the Bulldogs only by means of a
long streak of net-popping bombs,
mainly from sophomore Derek
Rucker and junior Chris Heine-
man.

Those who live by the long-
range jumpshot will die by the
same and Davidson seemed to be
headed towards such a fate when
the jumpers stopped falling and
the Citadel knotted the score at 69-
69 with 5:25 remaining. For sev-
eral agonizing minutes, Davidson
led by the barest of margins by
means of a Heineman jumpshot.

With 2:26 left in the game,
Davidson finally entered the
bonus and finally starting hitting
free throws. Davidson got great
freethrow shooting from Rucker,
Heineman and senior Ken
Niebuhr (four-for-four down the
stretch) to ice the game. The

Wildcats got some help from the
Citadel’s poor shot selection
down the stretch, but the cool
heads and good free throw shoot
ing Davidson exhibited proved
that the Cats are a team that can
win tight games.

For future reference, it should
be noticed that Davidson got good
bench play from Tanner and
Niebuhr and strong rebounding
from senior forwards Gerry Born
and Jim McConkey. Davidson
will need more of both to chal
lenge for the conference title
However, Davidson seemed to
feel they weren’t allowed to take
shots from within 15 feet. The
Wildcats must get stronger inside
play in the future.

The future comes quickly as
conference power  UT-Chat
tanooga comes to Johnston Gym
tomorrow night and Western
Carolina makes a similar trip on
Monday night.

Balance, competition mark Conference race

By BOYD COGGINS

With the start of conference play this week, the race for
the top spot seems to be wide open. After the first six weeks
of the season, the Southern Conference looks to be very ba-
lanced. No one has established themselves as the team to
beat.

Here is a look at how all the teams have done so far this
season.

The Appalachian State Mountaineers come into confer-
ence play with a 6-3 record. They have had convincing vic-
tories over UNCC (twice), Winthrop, and Erskine. Their
three losses have been to the highly rated teams of Texas-El
Paso, Texas Tech and Duke. This season their two top scor-
ers are Greg Dolan (12.0 ppg, 5.9 rpg) and Rod Davis (11.4
ppg). The Mountaineers also have a lot of experience on the
court with senior Lynwood Robinson at point guard. Head
coach Kevin Cantwell and assistant coach Gerry Vaillan-
court (former Davidson assistant) hope their team can get

off to a good start since four of their first five conference
games are at home.

The Citadel open this season’s conference schedule
without two-time Southern Conference Player of the Year
Regan Truesdale. They also are guided by first-year coach
Randy Nesbit, who is the youngest head coach in NCAA
Division | basketball. Through their first seven games this
season they are 4-3 with wins over Piedmont, Morgan St.,
Coker and Baptist. They have lost their games to North
Carolina, Miami (Fla.) and the College of Charleston. So
far this year the Bulldogs scoring attack has been well ba-
lanced to make up for the loss of the high scoring Trues-
dale. They presently have four players in double figures
with Craig Bardo and Kent Hill leading the way with 15.4
ppg and 12.6 ppg respectively. The Bulldogs have four of
their first five conference games on the road. They must
win early at Davidson, Marshall and VMI if they hope to
finish in the upper division of the conference.

The Wildcats ended their non-conference schedule
with a 7-4 record. They had convincing victories over such
teams as Wofford, Erskine, UNCC and Rice. Davidson's
play this season has been characterized by a sticky man-to-
man defense and balanced scoring. Leading the way this
season has been sophomore guard Derek Rucker who is the
team’s leading scorer at 12.9 ppg. He is followed closely
by senior Gerry Born and sophomore Jeff Himes both at 9.5
ppg. Underneath, the Wildcats are led by Born and senior
Jim McConkey who are pulling down rebounds at a clip of
6.2 rpg and 5.3 rpg respectively. Davidson opens its con-
ference season with three straight home games in five days.
These games are against the Citadel, UT-Chattanooga and
Western Caorlina.

East Tennessee State also comes into league play this
year with a new coach. They hired Les Robinson who was

released from the Citadel last year. Robinson hopes for im-
provement from a team which finished last in the confer-
ence last year. After cight non-conference games this sea-

son the Buccaneers stand at 2-6. They have lost to some

good teams such as Clemson, Vanderbilt and Alabama-
Birmingham. They are led in scoring by 5-11 Wes Stallings
at 17.8 ppg. On the frontline they are led in rebounding by
6-4 Calvin Cannady at 7.4 rpg. The Buccaneers open
southern Conference play with road games at Furman and
UT-Chattanooga.

The Fighting Purple Paladins of Furman enter confer-
ence play with a 5-5 record. They are lead in scoring by
guard Shawn Reid (11.6 ppg) and in rebounding by for-
ward John Castile (6.4 rpg). First year coach Butch Estes
hopes his team will be able to improve on last year’s 7-21
record. So far this season they have beaten teams such as
Erskine, Eastern Kentucky and Sewanee. The Paladins
begin their conference schedule with four straight home
games. They must play well at home to have any hopes of
finishing near the top of the conference.

The Thundering Herd from Marshall look to be one of
the contenders for the conference championship this sea-
son. They are coming off a 21-13 record last season and a

G The key to the Southern Conference
championship lies in the hand of the
team who plays with the most consis-

tency. 9

Southern Conference Tournament championship. Return-
ing to coach Rick Huckabay’s Herd this year is last year’s
freshman of the year Skip Henderson, who is averaging
19.3 ppg. Along with Henderson is 6-10 sophomore center
Tom Curry who is second in scoring at 12.9 ppg. The big
men under the boards this season for Marshall have been
Rodney Holden (7.8 rpg) and Jeff Guthrie (7.6 rpg). This
season they are currently 7-5 with victories over fresno
State, New Orleans and Hawaii-Loa. They lost a close
game to the seventh-ranked Oklahoma Sooners by the
score of 81-70. The Herd begins conference play with three
road games in five days. It is essential that they pick up
some early wins on the road if they hope to claim the top
spot again this year.

UT-Chattanooga became the fourth Southern Confer-
ence team to get a new coach this year. Mark McCarthy
took over the job from Murray Arnold, who left Chat-
tanooga for an assistant job with the Chicago Bulls. Under
McCarthy this season the Mocs are currently 7-4. They are
led in scoring by sophomore center Lance Fulse with 13.4
ppg. They also boast the league’s top rebounder in Darryl
Ivery (8.6 rpg). They have had impressive road wins at

Mississippi and Mississippi State. Their four losses were to
Alabama-Birmingham, Georgia Tech, Georgia and
Mercer, who have a combined win-loss record of 38-11.
The Mocs begin their conference schedule at home against
East Tennessee State, but then face three straight road
games in five days against Davidson, Furman and the
Citadel.

Gay Elmore, the conference’s leading scorer at 20.6
ppg, leads the VMI into conference play with a 4-5 record.
Three of their five losses have come to Virginia, Richmond
and Kentucky. Third-year coach Marty Fletcher is also
high on freshman guard Darren McDonald, who is the
league’s top freshman scorer at 14.8 ppg and also VMI's
top rebounder at 6.8 rpg. The Keydets start the conference
season with two tough away games at Appalachian State
and East Tennessee State before coming home for a three-
game stand.

The Catamounts of Western Carolina have been the
most disappointing team in the conference this year. Com-
ing into conference play they hold a 2-5 record. Their two
wins came over Atlantic Christian and Radford. They are
led in scoring by Leroy Gasque who also leads the team in
rebounding at 6.1 rpg. Western Carolina opens Southern
Conference play with road games against Furman and
Davidson.

The key to the Southern Conference championship lies
in the hand of the team who plays with the most consis-
tency. This team must be able to win on the road in front of
hostile crowds and to avoid being upset on its home court.
Since all the teams seem to be of equal strength, the team
that will prevail as the top team will be the one which keeps

its composure under pressure and executes the crucial play
when the game is on the line.

Davidsonian Tecp 20 Basketball Poll

Compiled by the Sports Editor

UNC
Michigan
3. Duke
Georgia Tech
9. Syracuse
5. Memphis State

kote dohnes
12. Georgetown

. Ala. Birmingham
UNLV

. Louisville
Ilinois

Texas E| Paso
Notre Dame
Virginia Tech
.Purdue

14.
lis
ty
16
Kansas /

18.

S. LOUuISiana State
Oklahoma

10. Kentucky 20
