Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

SGA lacks fundamental principles of democracy

David Williams

In light of the recent editorials, letters, and opinions
concerning the SGA’s role and functioning at Davidson, I
believe that now is an appropriate time to restate more
lucidly an opinion which I placed inthe Davidsonian dur-
ing the first week of the school year. Simply put, the David-
son Student Government Association lacks publicity and
therefore lacks “real” democracy. While the SGA performs
quite a number of services to students, these events are
rarely publicized in such a way that students can write
home and say, “Mom and Dad, the SGA is really doing a
good job for the students at Davidson, and I’m proud to be a
part of it!”

In the first place, the Student Government Association
gets off on the wrong foot each spring when it holds elec-
tions. Unlike other campuses, such as James Madison Uni-
versity, Davidson has no student political parties to rally
around. One never sees the “election fever” and hoopla at
Davidson which one remembers from high school and sees
at other college campuses. One never sees the heavy door-
to-door campaigning for support which characterizes
America so well.

Most importantly, the candidates for president. and
vice-president never make public appearances, hold cam-
paign speeches, or debate each other. The American cam-
paign speech, with which we are all so familiar, is a device
that candidates use to present their views on salient and
controversial issues. The speeches provide the voter the op-
portunity to make a more educated decision on election
day, while debates allow the voter to observe how the can-
didate will stand up under pressure.

This lack of candidate publicity causes the voter to be-
come extremely frustrated when election day rolls around.

Many student voters do not even recognize the faces, much
less the names, of the candidates for whom they are voting.
As a result, those student voters base their decisions on the
flip of a mental coin or the roll of a mental die.

After the voter walks away from the poll, his life goes
on as before. Once the results are tabulated, does the SGA
hold an assembly to announce, while holding the captive
audience in suspense, the winners of the elections? No! In-
stead, the few students who really care about the outcomes
of the elections must seek out the results by tediously
searching for them on the library door. As for a public inau-
guration or induction, I don’t believe the Davidson SGA
knows what these terms mean.

When a student doesn’t even recognize the face of his
student body president, how can the student possibly have
any real concern about the SGA? As Sayres Rudy stated
last week, “Once those elections are over the SGA becomes
an anonymous Tuesday night social club.” Yet as President
Woo and others also stated last week, “The activities of
elected Senators and SGA committees are not always in the
forefront, but because they are not obvious does not mean
they are nonexistent.”

Why must the Davidson SGA, the elected representa-
tives of our student body, put up with their activities being
“not always in the forefront?” Is not the SGA supposed to
be the drum major, the flag bearer, the official spokesman
for the students of Davidson College? When the SGA puts
so much time into projects such as the Sophomore Class
Project, the Phonathon, and the Rides project, why must it
be content to bury these activities behind their appearance
of “doing nothing?”

The SGA does have long-term goals, and it has many
topical issues on which it is presently focusing. What the
SGA lacks is a fundamental element which all political sys-
tems require: publicity. This publicity should not come
only through posters or flyers posted on bathroom stalls,
but should begin right at the start with campaign speeches,

name recognition publicity, which serve their purpose: to
get the people involved.

After elections are over and the students recognize and
support the SGA, the officers should continue to work to
highly publicize the SGA and provide it a high campus pro-
file. Periodic speeches to students during the middle of the
week concerning major campus issues would give students
the idea that the SGA is really working.

The SGA should provide students the opportunity and
publicity to become involved in SGA, and I’m not just talk-
ing about committee work or going to meetings. Who
wants to do committee work, anyway?? Ideally, the stu-
dents should be given direct opportunities to become in-
volved in the kinds of SGA-sponsored activities which all
students can become involved with and enjoy.

Sayers Rudy last week stated that students “don’t care
because stuff here at school seems okay.” Apparently, he
was not speaking for all students; I, for one, do care, and I
do not believe that everything at Davidson is necessarily
okay. If everything is okay, then why did 50 or more stu-
dents get kicked off campus last year due to lack of on-cam-
pus housing? Why can I never seem to find a place to park?
And why do the lightpoles keep getting torn-up, at the ex -
pense of the safety of women?

The SGA is a vital part of the Davidson campus and
could play an even more role with adequate publicity. The
SGA could receive a much greater amount of student sup-
port if it would tell the students that it is really working for
them. But as long as students never have the opportunity to
hear their president speak for them, how can they ever pos-
sibly give real support to their government? Without pub-
licity, how can the SGA ever achieve “real” democracy at
Davidson?

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis,
Tenn.

Amnesty International promotes human dignity

Allen Smith

For those of you who heard Ms. Denegri speak about
torture in Chile last term, the horror of torture must still be
very large, very painful. The human rights violations of
Chile are especially bad, but then again, there are many
countries that have prisoners of conscience, treated outside
the law and often with inhumane cruelty.

It is difficult to define exactly who qualifies as a pris-
oner of conscience, but the standard is a person who is im-
prisoned or tortured for nonviolent acts or protest. Amnesty
is a group that concerns itself with disarming problems,
lives that are intentionally destroyed and confined by brutal
governments. There is no legal justification for sadism.

Lives are destroyed for many reasons, many of which
are as unclear as the incident upon which Amnesty was
founded. In 1961, two Portuguese men were imprisoned
for giving ‘‘a toast to freedom.” Peter Benenson was struck

by this enough to ponder more common human rights vio-
lations. He wrote a newspaper article that encouraged
people to do something: to start writing impartial and
peaceful letters on behalf of thousands of men and women
imprisoned throughout the world for their political and re-
ligious beliefs. These prisoners were to be called “prisoners
of conscience” later, and it is on their behalf that people still
write today.

Not to'sound melodramatic, but not to play blind either,
it is a tremendous task to which AI challenges people. It’s
one of those people-be-nice-to-people groups, right?

No, not at all. Amnesty asks only one thing, that people
be treated with the dignity to which human beings are enti-
tled. Dignity to not have life struck behind bars because a
different opinion is stated, a thoughtcrime.

But still that’s not all. Because human rights violations
often extend beyond confinement of movement and ac-
quaintances, imprisonment, to more direct abuse, cruel and
intentional torture.

Amnesty works to help individual prisoners of consci-
ence, usually those in greatest need of help as best as Al can
tell. This judgment is based solely on human rights con-

cerns. For its successful work to help governments effect
the release of prisoners of conscience, Amnesty Interna-
tional won the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize.

By working for individuals’ freedom from torture, Al
makes the voice of all such tortured people heard. At worst,
Amnesty stirs or maintains public attention to human rights
violations. At best, Amnesty saves individuals from worse
bodily harm than they have already received.

Letterwritings work for individual prisoners. Urgent
Action sheets are sent to AI groups informing them of indi
vidual human rights violations with the specific names of
people in specific countries. “Recommended action” on the
sheets presents Amnesty's suggested course of action
Every Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Big Conference Room,
Davidson Amnesty has letterwritings. This Wednesday our
letters will address the execution of political prisoners and
army deserters in Iraq. Please come join us.

Amnesty International is an independent, worldwide
movement, working impartially for the release of all pris
oners of conscience, fair and prompt trials for political pris
oners, and an end to torture and executions.

Smith is a sophomore history major from Durham, N.C.

T Just Words

Tim Brown

The talk concerning religious clubs in school is con-
ducted by extremists. Some of whom promote religious
clubs in schools — while others abhor. Extremists in
favor of religious clubs would like to have us believing
that children must have their religious meetings in the
school house and that, outside the school, they are able
to meet nowhere. Nowhere?

I can think of some nowheres. Can you? A church; a
student’s house; a public park; a soda shop; at a soup
kitchen, to nourish the poor; at an old folks home, to
liven up and to learn from our septugenarians and their
elders; a hospital, to surprise a child, say, on Hallo-
ween, Christmas or Easter. This isn’t to say a child
wouldn't enjoy a visit on a regular old Monday, or Tues-
day, or Wednesday, or... .

Religious

organizations have their place

The extremists opposing religious clubs in school
seek to persuade: If religious clubs are allowed, the
school house will be inundated with bigots, evangelists,
and a messiah or two; and that such clubs will promote
many changes. The ROTC will turn into a Neo-Nazi fac-
tion. The garden club into a group of groupies of flower
children, the cycling club into a group of Hell’s Angels:
the orchestra into the like of such contemporaries as
Ozzy Osborne, the Dead Kennedys, or a Mary Jane
Girls. (Heaven forbid they should turn into such
“Ratt’s”.)

Ten members of the religious club called Petros —
Greek for “rock” — started the hoopla, by way of suing
the Williamport Pa., school board after it decided that
letting Petros meet on school property, during school
hours, would violate the first Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution. The students, in contradiction, argue thejr
right to free speech is protected in the same amendment.
This collision is now in the Supreme Court, the same
court which always opens with the words, “God save the

United States and the honorable court,” the same Su-
preme Court that ruled, in 1981, religious clubs should
be allowed to meet on college campuses. But differ-
ences between the cases have been erected. High school
students are a captive audience and experience peer
pressure. And we Wildcats know, a student, upon step-
ping onto the campus grounds as a freshman, develops
resistance to such things. In this way, each campus a
Lourdes. All of which leads me to offer a suggestion.
Student religious activities should be student-in-
itiated (such is not too much to ask of students initiating
a Supreme Court case). They should not have affiliation
with curriculum, teachers or administration. Should not
be endorsed by school authorities, and should not be al-
lowed to transpire in the school during shcool hours.
Each school should acquire itself one really big bulletin
board, to which any group can attach its message, invi-
tation, thoughts. And who knows? Students might learn
to prefer this reading over that offered them on walls, in
bathrooms, on desks, sidewalks. and buses.

