News Shorts

Proposed amendments to SGA bylaws

Proposed Amendments to the Bylaws Proposed changes in Section B of Ar-
ticle II:

1. The Senate consists of:

a. Three senators per class elected by and from the sophomore, junior and
senior classes and six by and from the freshmen class;

b. One senator elected by and from the following sccial organizations:

the Black Student Coalition, Emanon, Kappa Alpha, PAX, Phi Delta Theta,
Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Rusk House, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma
Phi Epsilon, Spencer House and Warner Hall House.

c. Senators in the proportion of one senator per x number of independents (or
fraction thereof, at least half x), the number x being the average membership of
the organizations listed in section B, 1, b. of this article;

2. The senators described in sections B, 1, b. and c. of this article are elected an-
nually at a time designated in article VI of these bylaws.

Everest climber speaks

This past Monday Andrew Harvard, lawyer and veteran mountain climber,
spoke on his two attempts on the previously “impossible” east face of Mt. Eve-
rest: the 1981 attempt which got close yet ended in failure, and the successful
1983 attempt.

Five points came into view for the successful ascent: right people, maximi-
zation of human potential, clearly defined success, focus on essentials, and
choice of the right leader, a leader who is first among equals. Those climbers
that are firstly glory seekers need not apply Havard said.

Andrew Harvard gave his talk at 7:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery on the
April 21. Dean T.C. Price Zimmermann, who has been involved with the Amer-
ican Alpine Club was instrumental in bringing him here. Currently, Andrew
Harvard is writing a book on the 1983 expedition.

Material contributed by Aaron Levine

Physician speaks on AIDS

W.T. Williams, one of the College Physicians, spoke on Acquired Im-
munodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) at the open luncheon on Wednesday, April
23.

Williams said AIDS is an acquired disease because initially persons were not
born with it. The AIDS virus itself affects the immune system. According to
Williams, “It blocks all reactions that take care of other viruses and fungi.”

Williams maintained that there have been 18,000 total cases of AIDS viruses
reported. Ninety percent of these victims are between the ages of 20- 50 years
old. Seventy-three percent of the victims are homosexual or bisexual and seven-
teen percent are IV drug users. There is a fifty-one percent mortality rate for

According to WIlliams there is currently no cure for the AIDS virus. The
other complications that come with the virus can be treated with antibiotics. The
best way to prevent further spread is to practice safe sex and to screen blood to be
donated. Persons diagnosed as having virus should avoid pregnancy, take pre-
cautions with sex and also avoid donating blood.

When asked if Davidson should screen applicants, Williams said the dis-
ease, “would have to be more prevalent, and spread by other means.” He indi-
cated that such policy would come from the reaction of faculty and students and
parents to the AIDS scare.

Material contributed by Jeff Lesesne

D.G. Martin films show on campus

Hometown Cable Television's Channel 3 filmed this week’s broadcast of
D.G. Martin's “One on One” program behind the Vail Commons Monday after-
noon. The show was played on channel 3 Tuesday at 1:00 p.m. and Friday at
10:00 a.m. this week.

“One on One” is a talk show concerned with current issues, hosted by local
politician D. G. Martin. It is based on Martin’s column in The Leader newspa-
per. A Davidson native, D. G. Martin returned to the Davidson campus for this
week's broadcasting, featuring another Davidson native and the ex-mayor of
Charlotte Eddie Knox.

In this program Martin and Knox discussed the state’s support of changing
the dates of the primary elections to a year other than the presidential year. Mar-
tin also spoke to college President John W. Kuykendall and then interviewed
four candidates for county commission.

Martin has had his show filmed on the Davidson campus before.

Material contributed by Heidi Hooker

Honor Code open discussion held

Monday night, an open discussion concerning the Honor Code and the Code
of Responsibility was held.

The discussion focused on the “fine line” between the Honor Code and Code
of Responsibility, Former Honor Council member senior Sara Beasley, Honor
Council Chairman junior Michael Holt, and Honor Council Secretary junior
Eric Strother responded to questions from students and faculty.

Holt explained that our Code of Responsibility does give us a degree of free-
dom and that, “Yes, there is a fine line where you are going to be violating the
Code of Responsibility.”

Professor John Kelton said that there is a “difference between students being
honor bound to report for Honor Code and students being obliged to report rules
that they did not make themselves, like drinking and pets. That’s why you aren’t
honor bound to report drinking because the students won't and the Honor Code
won't work.”

Some felt that the question of intent should be the deciding factor in cases.
Holt said, “We are not cold. We look at what's best for the person and the com-

Friday, April 25, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AIDS virus.

The symptoms of the AIDS virus include fatigue, weight loss, fever, night
sweats, chronic diarrhea, node swelling, kaposis sarcoma which are sores on the

body and face.

munity.”

Material contributed by Laura Gabel

Lambert wins prestigious Vereen Bell Award

By LAURIE BALLENGER

Senior Anne Lambert won the Vereen
Bell creative writing award at Spring Con-
vocation last Friday for two short stories en-
titled “Violations” and “I Should Not Tell
You This.” Author William Styron judged
and presented the award. Seniors Christi
Baggett, Sayres Rudy and Joan Horn re-
ceived second through fourth places.

English professor Dr. Tony Abbott
stated that out of the 26 entries received, the
English department chose 16 to send to Sty-
ron, most noted for his novel Sophie's
Choice, for judging. The Vereen Bell Fund
is supported by friends of Bell '32, who was
killed in World War II during the second
battle of the Philippines. Bell was already a
successful young professional writer, hav-
ing published several stories in the Saturday
Evening Post in addition to writing a novel,
Swamp Water.

In the first story Lambert drew on her
experiences in living in Washington this
past summer. “One night a bat flew into our
apartment and we were terrified. Although
the situation was humorous I transformed
the humor into horror in the short history.”
“Violations” recounts a woman's feeling of

being dominated and controlled by other
people and her surroundings. Her rebellion
against helplessness culminates in her con-
frontation with the invading bat. By killing
the immediate threat she begins to obtain
the independence she so desperately des-
ires. Lambert expressed the belief that al-
though the story is not overtly feminist, it
has subtle feminist undertones. “I Should
Not Tell You This” concerns an illicit re-
lationship between a high school teacher
and a senior student. The dual narrative
shows first the teacher's point of view and
then the viewpoint of the boy. Lambert
again depicts a feeling of helplessness as
one is left feeling that the teacher is ex-
tremely vulnerable as the boy decides to tell
someone.

Second place winner Christi Baggett's
short story “Inheritance” tells of the some-
times painful and ambivalent relationship
between a daughter and the father whom
she distikes but still loves. Writing because
she believes that “everyone has a little
something to say,” Baggett, a “huge
reader” is “appreciative of the thoughts that
other writers have shared.” She enjoys the

challenge of words and precise expression.
She often draws on her own background
feeling that she “doesn’t know quite enough
about anything else to write about it well.”
She views writing from experience as a way
to “distance oneself and see fact become
fiction.”

The third place award recognized three
essays by Senior Center major Sayres
Rudy. “My Friends,” published recently in
The Davidsonian addresses the Middle East
problem and how people perceive it. A
more humorous piece entitled “For the
People, By the People” points out the exist-
ing American paradox that a government
that grants its people the maturity to main-
tain a democracy simultaneously creates
inane laws that imply that its people cannot
protect themselves. A more serious piece,
“The End of Human Instinct” expresses
Rudy’s belief that man is not higher than the
animals; for not only has man lost all his na-
tive instincts in the quest for “progress” but
he has perpetrated cruelties that animals are
incapable of.

Possessing what Styron spoke of as “‘a
nose for the absurd,” Rudy’s topics are sub-

jects that he has investigated and feels
deeply about.

Horn’s humorous “The Last
Christmas at Grandma's” evolved from a
personal essay for Dr. Engell’s class into a
short story. This story was an attempt to
order the past and contains no “big message
—— just personal.”

Because there was no clear-cut favorite
entry for the Windley Hall freshman writing
award among the nine judges, it was not
given this year. The English department felt
that because of the small amount of submit-
ted entries they did not receive an accurate
sample of freshman creative writing. Dr.
Abbott sees this as a result of not publiciz-
ing the contest enough and says that in the
future greater effort will be made in reach-
ing freshman writers.

Abbot said that the English department
only screens the applications while the
judge makes the final decision. He cites
maturity and experience as the reason for
the large proportion of senior winners be-
cause “good writing is as much the result of

personal maturity and growth as it is techni-
cal skill.”
