Friday, October 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words :

Drug abuse

Tim Brown

To many who watch and listen to sports events and con-
temporary comedians it seems that our generation is one
plagued with drug abuse, especially in our generation’s
sports industries: Last June, Len Bias, a 6-foot-8-inch All-
American forward from the University of Maryland, died
‘from a cocaine overdose. It supposedly was his first-time
use of drugs. His death was tragic because most of us as-
sumed Len Bias had it all together: an exploding leap and a
velvety-smooth jump shot, respect and a homé among the
Boston Celtics, a tightknit religious background, and a
warm smile (which would have come in handy. in finding
commercial endorsements, girlfriends and friends among

os

11

aw

costs lives, dollars to society

The effects on drug abuse in the workplace are large'in more soggy. The New Jersey Supreme Court has already
number and involve enormous human and economic costs. set the precedent that lockers of high school children can
Some of these costs are immediately evident. A forklift not be searched routinely without a warrant. Strong unions
operator who smoked a couple of joints during his lunch use this decision to appeal: almost any disciplinary action
break drives the forklift through the cargo and — oops — taken by the boss. Understandably contempt between bos-

right into the warehouse’s wall. A welder in Houston ses and employees flourishes.

smokes pot while working on a skyscraper and meets his

Maker eight stories below. A construction worker in Austin Jim Kelly, a former drug abuser and reformed al-
diets on amphetamines at lunchtime and drills a hole the coholic, has come forth with a much better answer. He has
Size of a silver dollar through his hand. A coked-out taxi set up counseling centers within plants. Any worker with a
driver gives his passengers a ride they'll always remember drug or alcohol problem can come to speak with Jim, who
and a long stay in the hospital they'll never forget. In guarantees confidentiality. Jim has expanded and bettered
Louisiana, a petrochemical plant burns to the ground, cost- his counseling service by earning state certification as an
ing the owners millions of dollars and four employees their alcoholism counselor, and by hiring clinical psychologists
lives. The cause: employees on barbiturates mixed the and a computer. General Motors and Phillip Petroleum Co.
wrong chemicals and were too slow in carrying out both admit to using Jim’s counseling service as a model to |

S.
children and adults alike). The hyperactive, rubber-faced, “™*8°n°Y measure

schizophrenic comedian Robin Williams instantaneously
assumes the personality of a coked-out, lanky black outfiel-
der who stares cravingly at the white line going all the way

turtle! Wait! Don’t steal home. Share it!” However,
another form of drug abuse grows rapidly and escapes the a quality-control inspector was as looped as a figure eight.
type of publicity given to drug abuse among athletes. This A stoned Wall Street securities trader fails to carry through

more damaging effects than drug abuse in our sports indus- shouldn’t worry about the trader losing a lot of sleep. He’ll
tries, and it is found in the workplace. sleep like a log because he’ll never remember the transac-

Joint by joint, line by line, pill by pill, drug abuse has_ tion. High-tech industries gradually go bottoms up because
permeated all levels of American businesses, from the little then employees on drugs make minute but costly quality-
people all the way up to the corporate executives. A sign contro! mistakes. Statistics repeatedly show that an em-
painter Steven Soriano, 25, used to sniff cocaine while he ployee on drugs compared to a straight worker is one-third
worked. He finally kicked the habit when he started averag- less productive, three times more likely to be injured or ab-
ing two small signs a day, which looked like finger paint- sent, more likely to.reduce morale among employees, and
ings done by kindergartners, and after his boss threatened is more likely to scare customers away. Other more de-
to kick him out the front door. Susan, a nurse, recalls when tailed statistics have determined conservatively the cost of
she would sneak 50 to 100 milligrams of Demarol from a drug abuse to the economy: absenteeism cost $4.9 billion,
patient or from the supply room, and would shoot it intoher drug-related deaths $1.3 billion, imprisonment $2.1 bil-
thigh twice during every shift. The accessibility of drugs, lion, criminal careers to support criminal habits $8.3 bil-
long hours, and emotional stress, she says, increased the lion, treatment $1.9 billion, research $367 million, police
temptation to steal and abuse medication. Twenty-one and judicial expenditures $5.2 billion, alarm systems and
guards at San Onofre nuclear facility in California were other precautionary steps for businesses $1.6 billion, and
suspended for heavy drug abuse. Thirty-five promising re- destruction of property $113 million. All of which, accord-
cruits and 10 respected veterans were fired from the District _ing to my pocket calculator, totals $25.78 billion. Which is
of Columbia police department for using and selling equalto . . . forget it. I’ll let you figure what percentage of

Some costs such as loss of productivity and declining
to home plate. Then presto. He changes into an umpire on quality are not noticed immediately, but are far more.
acid and shouts at the top of his lungs: “I’m a turtle! I’m a_ costly. A Cleveland pharmaceutical company, unknow-
ingly sells huge batches of contaminated products because workplace is

form of drug abuse is more widespread and has potentially on an $18 million transaction. But the thoughtful reader and education

create their own. General Motors statisticians calculate that
for every $1 invested in its program it receives $3 in return. |
Likewise, Phillips Petroleum Co. boasts of saving $8 mil-
lion per annum in fewer accidents, less absenteeism ‘and
higher productivity.

Another good answer to the drug abuse problem in the
offered to American businesses by the
Japanese, which is quite neighborly of our stiff com-
petitors. Ingeniously, the Japanese offer exercise breaks
breaks to relieve the physical feelings of ten-
sion and the psychological feelings of boredom. They also
have worker-management committees, which have em-
ployees doing activities and making decisions outside the
realm of their normal jobs. Such committees increase feel-
ings of importance, decrease feelings of alienation and sub-
stantially lessen drug abuse among employees.

The one really big problem, which I can attest to, is
identifying the person who is abuses drugs in the workplace
before serious damage is done. .Employees who abuse
drugs are secretive, making themselves hard to identify.
Fellow employees are reluctant to report drug abuses to em-
ployers for two reasons. They don’t trust their own abilities
to identify.drug abusers. And reporting a fellow employ-
ee’s drug use would be frowned upon by many fellow em-
ployees just as a child’s squealing is frowned upon by
elementary school students.

Very few signs of drug abuse are obvious to the average

marijuana, cocaine and PCP. Dressed as if he had just step-
ped down from a Brooks Brothers’ front window display, a
very successful Denver attorney feels like a human cat,
who lands on his feet no matter what. He swears that he will”
remain forever free from the love-hate relationship he once
had with cocaine (Ms. White). Painfully, he explains how
he would cancel all of his afterncon appointments, rush all
of his clients out the door, and would return to his office so
he could get a rush from snorting cocaine from his desk
drawer through a hollowed- out Bic pen.

892-7805

Main St. Davidson

_Lake Norman

mth. 9-5 fri. -96

our deficit this Comes out to. employee, whose repertoire of signs of drug abuse includes

hiccups, a zigzag walk, and an inability to touch one’s nose
_ . _ while standing on one’s foot._I was inexperienced in this

Strategies and game plans to combat drub abuse in the area two summers ago. I worked with a young woman for
workplace are few in number but show some promise. One three months and never suspected that she was addicted to
of the less promising answers employs urine tests, locker cocaine, or that she would go so far as to steal $300 from a
searching, and training dogs to sniff but not to eat the en- daily report to support her habit. She was young, attractive,
trails of lunch pails. The effectiveness of this method tes- intelligent, and had a warm smile that compared to the

sens as the constitutional grounds on which employers base glowing grinofLen Bias =

their right to invade the privacy of their employees become Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.

~~ SERO*

SHIRTMAKER?

Great selections in
new plaids- all cotton
& easy care fabrics -

exciting new
colorations

The casual elegance
of these precisely

matched plaids will
> please you...
and they are so handsome. COME SEE!

Ladies Wear Too!

Downtown Mooresville 9 am ‘til 5:30 pm
Monday thru Saturday

