Features

Stage and reality merge in workshops

By BILL BUGG

It has been said that even the Theatre of
the Absurd has meaning. What I mean is
that in this absurd theatre of the world, even
the most meaningful things are absurd — no
— I mean even the most ridiculous and pre-
posterous and apathetically absurd things
profoundly illustrate the extremities of the
human predicament. perhaps it can be best
said in the words of an expert (that is, Stop-
pard’s Moon): that even the theatre of the
absurd can produce “shock waves — which
unless I am much mistaken, will strip these
comfortable people” (that is these fine
people of the theatre of the world)
“_ . these crustaceans in the rock pool of
society . . . strip them of their shells and
leave them exposed as the trembling raw
meat which, at heart, is all of us.”

Well, perhaps I am quite mistaken. At
least, the trichotomies of the forces of com-
plex human nature would seem to indicate
that nothing quite so serious could hold
such an amalgamation of meaninglessness
together as appears in Tom stoppard’s The
Real Inspector Hound. Davidson College
Theatre Department’s Workshop III pro-
ductions of Stoppard’s play and of Elaine
May’s Not Enough ROpe last night (also
showing tonight at 7 p.m.) successfully em-
ployed the authors’ designs, allowing Stop-
pard and May humorously to attack those
who might attach meaning to absurdity, and
uncompromisingly to expose those who
would search for raw meat in a candy store.

Tom Stoppard’s fascination with Ham-
let’s play within a play (Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern Are dead) continues with The
Real Inspector Hound. Moon (Forrest Wil-
liams) and Birdboot (Dan Michaelis), who
together constitute the audience, discuss the
larger meaning of a Hitchcock-styled sus-
pense as it unfolds before their eyes. Pre-
cluded by Moon’s “I dream of Higgs”
(whatever that means, or doesn’t mean), the
play within the play begins in Muldoon
Manor with a special police report over the
radio: a man of a certain description is being
sought. At that moment a man of that des-
cription (Simon, played by William
Beckwith) walks in, and at that moment,
the mystery and the absurd come together to
stay.

A sort of soap-opera emerges: Simon

runs into Felicity (Kristen Updegruff) who
is flattered to see him, whereupon he says,
“I love another.” Felicity’s reply (“I'll kill
you for this, Simon Gascoyne!”) is over-
heard by the housemaid, Mrs. Drudge
(Laura Bowen).

Upon Felicity’s exit, Lady Muldoon, or
Cynthia (Jillian Clayton), Simon’s real
love, enters. Cynthia, whose husband has
been presumed dead, nevertheless reacts
harshly to Simon’s love: “Stop — can’t you
see you’re making a fool of yourself!” Mrs.
Drudge overhears as Simon replies: “I'll
kill anyone who comes between us!” A sus-
picious, wheel-chaired man, with obvi-
ously fake moustache, Major Magnus (Ben
Newland), roars into the scene, and the
mystery crescendoes to its next stage:

“The groundwork has been well and
truly laid,” the spectator Birdboot
exclaims, “and the author has taken the
trouble to learn from the masters of the
genre. He has created a real situation, and
few will doubt his ability to resolve it with a.
startling denouement. Certainly that is what
it so far lacks, but it has a beginning, a mid-
dle and I have no doubt it will prove to have
and end,” which is certainly one thing it
ends up lacking.

But Moon’s analysis (“I think we will
find that within the austere framework of
what is seen to be on one level a country-
house week-end, and what a useful symbol
that is, the author has given us — yes, I will
go so far — he has given us the human con-
dition”) proves to be as absurd as Stop-
pard’s play. For the mystery is not only de-
void of any coherent order or plot, moral
implications or commentary on human
existence (despite Moon’s “I think we are
entitled to ask — Where is God?”’), but it is
mixed with absurdities from the beginning
(throughout the play a dead body lies on the
stage) which build to a climax when the
spectators Birdboot and Moon inadver-
tently enter the play.

Stoppard is effective because he mixes
humor and absurdity with seriousness and
meaningfulness to render the meaning ab-
surd, to mock and jeer at the serious. Direc-
tor Jennifer Poole was effective because she
transformed a cast of stock characters into
an amalgamation of preposterous yet
humorous absurdity. The cast was effective

because they held together a string of com-
plex plot twists and turns without illuminat-
ing the complexities of human nature.

Elaine May’s Not Enough Rope turns a
boarding house of eccentric occupants into
a net of intertwined lives leading from
nowhere into nowhere, from absurdity into
absurdity. Edith (Noel Brewster), a playful,
young woman with  self-deprecatory
humor, attempts to borrow rope from her
just-moved-in neighbor, Claude (Lee
Eichelberger), so she can hang herself.
Claude, an apathetic, selfish man of the
same age, sees nothing wrong with Edith’s
endeavor, and lends her the twine she
needs.

Upon tying the noose about her. neck
and readying herself to kick a chair out from
under her, to a recording of Judy Garland’s
“I’m Biding My Time” (which ends, “And
you won’t matter anymore”), Edith realizes
she promised to herself that if she was given
no rope from Claude, she would take it as a
sign that she was not to commit suicide.
Since Claude gave her twine, not rope, she
calls for help to get her down.

In the meantime an old woman (Ann
Lambert) awakens to the sounds of
Claude’s drums, and wheels her chair to his
door. The old woman hears Edith’s cries
but can do nothing; Claude hears Edith’s
cries and does not care; and in a humorous
scene, the old woman nudges Claude with
her cane until he stops playing his drums.

While Edith continues to cry for help,
Claude decides to move out so he can “prac-
tice” in peace, and discovers that his twine
which he needs to crate his drums is mis-

Actors in the Theatre of the Absurd.

sing. The old woman complains of chest
pains, pleads with someone to sit by her
until she dies, and begins to wheel back to
her room.

On the surface, the three are absurd
characters in an absurd rooming house. In
reality, they are realistic characters in a
real, but absurd, world. The desperate
Edith, the apathetic Claude, and the quar-
relsome old woman, revolve about each
other, the first needing love, the second
purpose, the third life. None of the three can
provide for the others’ needs, yet in a grue-
some paradox, none of the three can avoid
sending the others to their respective dis-
mal, pre-destination.

But despite the foreboding of death in
the play, director Melinda Dennis interprets
Not Enough Rope in humorous light, utiliz-
ing a hilarious but sardonic bite to under-
mine what could have been serious
philosophical questions. It thus changes
whatever raw meat is trapped within its
shells into absurdity. As Moon of The Real
Inspector Hound asks of the play within the
play, so we may ask of both Stoppard’s and
May’s plays: “Does it . . . declare its af-
filiations? There are moments, and I would
not begrudge it this, when the play, if we
can call it that, and I think on balance we
can, aligns itself uncompromisingly on the
side of life. Je suis, it seems to be saying,
ergo sum. But is that enough? I think we are
entitled to ask. For what in fact is this play
concerned with?”

The crustaceans in the rock pool of soci-
ety? The trembling raw meat of our hearts’
No. Only the absurdity of the theatre of the
world.

Jazz and poetry: A well-matched combination

By HUGH LEE

in its truest form, pure expression

Two

other

For those of you who opted for
post-game parties instead of intel-
lectual enlightenment, you missed
a Monday night Union Literary
Arts Committee presentation of
three creative art forms, which
possessed a depth not often found.

© while many well-known
works were read... ., the
most gripping work was
composed by a Davidson
senior:

The program, brainchild of
English Professor Gill Holland,
was a combination of poetry, jazz
and dance: three mediums which,
although seemingly unrelated,
share a common goal: self-expres-
sion. It was a representation of art

2

without convention. It created an
exchange of thoughts and emo-
tions between performers and au-
dience, between everyone in-
volved, which left me feeling that
no extra words or notes had, or
need have, been said or played.

The poetry readings, coordi-
nated by Martha Wilson, ranged
from the bitter and contemplative
to the satirical and carefree. While
many well-known works were
read (those of Shakespeare,
Parker, Mall, Turgenev, etc.), the
most gripping work was com-
posed by a Davidson senior. “Fly-
ing Home,” by Jerry Lilly, depicts
a man contemplating the crash of
his airline flight. Through this
contemplation he gains an .ap-
preciation for the smaller things in
life as well as life in general.

well-received
poems were “Dancing on the
Grave of a Son of a Bitch,” by
Dorothy Parker, and “Sea Surf is
Full of Clouds,” by Wallace

G

The spontaneous creativity
of the trio added color to an
otherwise black and white
picture.

Cleaver. The first, read by Lucy
Everett, is a bitingly satirical cele-
bration of the death of her hus-
band, a dastardly man. The sec-
ond, read by Paul Kosmas, is a
very sensual poem which was
truly brought to life through the

background music of jazz.

A jazz trio, consisting of Jef-
frey Brown (tenor saxaphone),
George Guise (piano), and Philip
Dennis (congas), provided the ap-
propriate accompaniment for the
poetry. The background music the
three musicians provided was
taken for granted even though the
effect they achieved is difficult to
attain. (They must interpret the
poetry as it is read and choose key
and notes.) The spontaneous
creativity of the trio added color to
an otherwise black and white pic-
ture.

Aside from jazz and poetry,
dance added to the variety of the
program. Eight members of the
Davidson Dance Troupe per-
formed the Charleston with vivac-

ity and enthusiasm. The dancers
had obviousiy worked hard on
both their steps and their cos-
tumes. They communicated the
fun they were having to the audi-
ence very well.

The creativity of the program
struck a harmonious chord. In the
words of junior Steve Mank, “I’m
glad I could sit in on this jam ses-
sion.”

For those interested in jazz.
the Preservation Hall Jazz Band
will play in the 900 Room tonight
at 8 p.m. It is one of the best jazz
combos in the world and is worth

paying 10 times the $5 student ad-_

mission to hear. Also, the entire
Davidson Dance Troupe will give
a performance of the complete
Charleston in March.

ma

sapernripis

