iby ond Die

By DAVID WILLIAMS ,

Headlining events for the week Oct.
31-Nov. 6:

Around the World — The Islamic
Holy War organization Sunday released
American hostage David Jacobsen, who
had been held in Beirut for nearly 18
months. Arab diplomats said certain Ira-
nian officials favoring improved rela-
tions with the U.S. have been putting
pressure on Iran-linked shiite Moslem
militants in Lebanon to free American
hostages such as Jacobsen.

The official Iranian press agency said
former White House national security ad-
viser Robert McFarlane and four other
Americans had recently gone on a secret
trip to Iran and had been arrested, con-
fined to a hotel room, and expelled from
the country.

Secretary of State George Shultz st-
ernly criticized the human rights _perfor-
mance of the Soviet Union and said the
Soviets would remain‘a “backward out-
cast” of world society until their record
improves. Shultz and Soviet Foreign
Minister Eduard Shevardnadze then met
in Vienna to discuss “how to build on the
full agenda discussed inf Reykjavik.” The
General Assembly of the United Nations
overwhelmingly approved a resolution
calling for the immediate withdrawal of
all Soviet troops from Afghanistan.

"State Department officials said the
Reagan administration has agreed to
offer Honduras new American-built F-SE
fighters or Israeli-built Kfir fighters as re-
placements for Honduras’ aging squad-
- ron-of warplanes. A Nicaraguan Foreign
Ministry official called the U.S. plan a
“direct slap in. the face to the Contadora
peace process.”

A legal adviser to face Hasenfus,
the American captured by Nicaraguan
forces after his supply plane was shot
down, said the American Reverend
Joseph Lowery may be able to play a part
in Hasenfus’ release. Hasenfus distanced

Friday, November 7, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

hitnself from remarks he made earlier by
saying he did not know whether his co-
workers were employed by the C.I.A.

Leftist guerrillas fighting in
Guatemala said they would be willing to
negotiate a peaceful settlement with the
new civilian government, which came
into power last January under the leader-
ship of President Marco Vinicio Cerezo
Arevalo.

Citing Argentina's “aggressive pat-
roling” of disputed waters, Great Britain
announced it would extend its fishing
zone around the Falkland Islands from
three to 200 miles. The Argentine gov-
ernment called the British action an en-
croachmient on the sovereignty of Argen-
tina and said it had canceled plans to dis-
charge military conscripts.

Philippines President Corazon
Aquino set May 11, 1987 as the date for
nationwide elections for the creation of a
new national legislature. Aquino said she
did not feel threatened by the recent at-
tacks from Defense Minister Juan Ponce
Enrile and expressed confidence that she
had the backing of the military. The U.S.
Justice Department began investigating
the possibility that Enrile has diverted
U.S. aid funds to his personal use, but
Enrile publicly denied the charges.

The South African government
closed an additional 40 black high
schools in the Eastern Cape and said the
schools would not be reopened until stu-
dents “prove their willingness to.return.”
The South African government also said
the Soviet airliner that crashed two weeks
ago, killing Mozambican President Sam-
ora Machel, was equipped with obsolete
instruments that could not alert the crew
that it was flying close to the ground. For-
eign Minister Joaquim Chissano was
named the new president of Mozam-
bique.

Jean-Bedel Bokassa, the former em-
peror of the Central African Republic
who was exiled in a 1979 coup, returned

to his home country last week and was
immediately jailed. Bokassa will go on
trial later this month to face charges of
murder and embezzlement, among
others.

Three Navy warships Sotked in
Qingdao, China and became the first
U.S. vessels to visit the People’s Repub-
lic of China since the Communists took
power. The South Korean government
said it would prosecute most of the | ,525
student protesters taken into custody last
week for participating in the demonstra-
tion against President Chun Doo Hwan
and the United States.

Across the Nation —

In Tuesday’s nationwide elections
the Democrats picked up a net total of
eight Senate seats to regain control by a
margin of 55-45. The Democrats also
made a net gain of five seats in the House
to bring their margin of control to 258-
174. However, the Republicans gained a
net total of eight governors in the nation’s
statehouses. Senator Edward Zorinsky
(D. Nebraska) said he might be willing to
switch parties if the Republicans offer
him legislative breaks for Nebraska.

. Government documents showed that
former Reagan aide Lyn Nofziger may
have violated federal:ethics laws when he
intervened at the White House in behalf
of a military contractor four months after
leaving his administration post.

The Supreme Court refused to re-
solve a conflict among Federal appellate
courts about how they should deal with
efforts by local school boards to disman-
tle court-ordered desegregation plans.
The Court also decided that states may
not deny family. planning grants to pri-
vate groups merely because they receive
funding from other sources to offer coun-
seling and abortions _

A report released by the Environmen-
tal Protection Agency said 38.1 million
Americans drink water with harmful
levels of lead in it. The Agency said it

Hostage Jacobsen released, Falklands in news

would consider rules to reduce the level
of lead in drinking by half of what is now
considered safe.

A study released by the National Cen-
ter for Health Statistics shows that fewer
than half of the women engaging in sex-
ual intercourse for the first time use con-
traceptives. A confidential report by The
Department of Health and Human Ser-
vices proposes the expansion of ‘Medi-
care to cover more costs of long, severe
illnesses. The Forest Service announced
a new $20 million a year plan to crack '
down on the expanding practice of grow-
ing marijuana in the National Forests.

.. The Air Force ignored a Congres-
sional plea for competition among de-
fense industry manufacturers for new

' fighter planes and instead announced it

would modify 270 existing fighters to de-
fend the continental U.S.

In Business News — Hisham Nazer
succeeded Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani as
Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister and im-
mediately called for an urgent meeting of
OPEC’s three-member price committee
to begin the process of raising the price of
oil to at least. $18 a barrel.

The nation’s trade deficit lowered in

September, as the amount by which im-

ports exceeded exports shrank by $760
million to. $12.56 billion. Construction
spending soared 1.4 percent in Sep-
tember. Auto sales fell 10 percent during
the last days of October. Mortgage-rates
also fell during October.

Corporate profits increased slightly
in the third quarter because of the weaker
dollar and lower mortgage rates,
economists said. But overall profits were '
weak because of heavy foreign competi-
tion and the sluggish economy: The Na-
tional Association of purchasing Man-
agement said economic growth slowed in
October because manufacturers, expect-
ing lower year-end inventories, are cut-
ting profits.

Craig Carlock

Jill Boyette

Five Good Reasons to Bank with Us

Chuck Hanis
FIRST UNION’

r >STUDENT
ADVISOR Y BOARD

Main St. , Davidson

——

I'm a terrorist.
I'm a Shiite Moslem

UNITED
CAROLINA
BANK

for your love.

ucl

?
heat,

Come Bank with Us
_ Downtown Davidson

Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6

