Friday, October 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words

Tim Brown

Grizzlies, bighor sheep, elk, bison, and other ani-
mals living in our national park have their existence
threatened by two groups: Park-tourism directors who
are inconsiderate of the animals and their needs, and
park rangers who wrongly and adamantly believe that
the best way to preserve park ecology is to leave it com-
pletely alone. .

Tourism in our national parks is growing faster than
a weed. So far in 1986 tourism has grown by 10 percent.
In their attempts to accommodate rising tourism, park-
tourism directors are inconveniencing the animals. The
delicate regions where the animals feed are paved over
‘with asphalt to make way for caravans of tourists. Re-
cently, in Rocky Mountain National Park, delicate feed-
ing areas were paved over to make asphalt pathways so
tourists could hike through the woods without getting
their shoes dirty and without getting their babies’ strol-
lers stuck in branches and twigs and rocks.

Park-tourism directors have been influential in get-
ting industries, villages, farms, and hotels set up along
the outskirts of our national parks in order to provide
food and shelter for tourists. Because of the industries,
the purple-wrapped Great Smoky Mountains are now
brown with smog. Because of the farms, the bats and
_ birds in Acadia National Park in Maine die from DDT
poisoning. Because of the villages and hotels, visitors
who struggle up Cadillac Mountain in Acadia are disap-
pointed to look down on condominiums’ black rooftops
and concrete parking lots shimmering with heat.

Of all the animals in our national parks, the grizzlies
probably suffer most from the wrongdoing of the park-
tourism directors. The grizzlies living .in_Yellowstone
suffer on two accounts. For many years it was common

©
é
ne

ON SALE NOW!!

that make a GREAT GIFT!

Featuring

Pizza by the Slice (Until 4pm)

Submarine Sandwiches & Homemade Meatbalt Sandwiches
Italian Sausage Sandwiches © Tossed Salads

i

—_———_- — ——_—-—-__—. e

* L

- . 663-7189.

125-2 N. Main St. in The Markade (Behind Magic Rental) Mooresville
Fri. & ‘Sat. llam-12(midnight)

— Mon.-Thurs. 1kam-10pm —
2 Blocks down from What-A-Burger.
Jf you pass Belk, you've gone too far.

The Warner Hall. Cookbook- great recipes

|Get yours from any member of Warner Hall

PIE IN THE SHY

Hand Rolled and lossed Pizza (Made While You Watch!)

PHONE IN OR TO-GO ORDERS WELCOMED
~s—

Negligence. destroying national al park: wild

knowledge among Yellowstone’s human residents that
the grizzlies peacefully ate many of their meals at nearby

garbage sites. Yellowstone’s tourism directors put their
dunce caps on, gathered in a corner, and decided to clear
the garbage sites because they were viewed unfavorably
by tourists. Now many grizzlies starve. Then, to make
matters worse, Yellowstone’s dull-witted tourism direc-
tors converted the grizzlies’ natural feeding grounds into
campsites. So, the grizzlies occasionally stroll through
the rows of campers, much as a consumer shoppers
stroll through the rows in grocery stores, looking for ap-
petizing junk food. Smart shoppers among the grizzlies
should go grocery shopping for more nourishing food at
Yellowstone’s tourism offices.

While Adam Smith and ardent Republicans promote
a laissez-faire economic policy, park rangers promote a
laissez-faire policy of their own: The best way to pre-
serve park ecology is to leave it completely alone. This
policy has proven disastrous in several instances, and
now it is being called into question by concerned
biologists. Adhering to their laissez-faire policy, park
rangers do not bum accumulations of brush and under-
growth, and thus fail to regulate and maintain the ani-
mals’ food supply. The park rangers do not use hunting
or reintroduce wolves into our national parks in order to
control animal populations. Four years ago, Yel-

_ lowstone’s park rangers refused to control the elk popu-

lation. They swore that the elk population would peak at
12,000 to 15,000 head. Last winter, the elk population
was estimated, conservatively, to be 16,000 head. The
elk, whose population continues to grow unregulated by
park rangers, are eating other animals out of house and
home. The elk eat every edible plant down to the dirt and
the foliage on most trees. Most trees are “high-lined,”
stripped to the height of a bull elk can reach.

In the winter of 1981-82, Yellowstone’s bighorn
sheep came down with a bacterial infection known as
pinkeye, which can be cured with eye drops. The park

15

rangers knew of the bighorn sheep’s condition, but re-
fused to intervene. Most of the sheep became blind and
sixty percent of the sheep starved or stumbled to their
deaths from snow-covered cliffs.

The animals could sleep easier tonight if park-
tourism directors and park rangers were to appreciate
and.respect nature the way Henry David Thoreau did at
Walden Pond. He strove to work and live with nature,
disturbing it as little as he could. He was thankful for the
conscientious hunter and the conscientious fisherman
and the conscientious Indians. They would hunt and
fish, taking from the forest no more than was necessary
to feed and clothe.their families, and they helped main-
tain a healthy animal population.

Not even Walden Pond is safe from tourism direc-
tors who are inconsiderate of animals and park rangers
who believe they should leave park ecology alone. The
tranquility of Walden Pond is threatened by roaring
radios, automobile horns, lifeguards’ whistles, scream-
ing children, and splashing swimmers. The fish living in
the shallows approach extinction as they continue to
compete with inflatable rafts and bobbing swimmers for
breathing room. The trees that surround Walden Pond,
which Thoreau explained were the pond’s eyelashes, are
sprayed with graffiti and display carvings done by green
lovers. The shores of Walden Pond, which Thoreau
watched grow during the summer months and shrink
during the winter months, are littered with wooden cau-
tion signs and tourist booths, emptied soda pop bottles,
candy wrappers, and forgotten sunvisors. However,
park rangers should not intervene and pick up the trash,
since the trash will decompose naturally in only a few
thousand years.

Park-tourism directors and park rangers who rule as
unconscientious oligarchs over the animals better be
glad that the animals are not able to read Thoreau’s essay
“On Civil Disobedience.”

Brown is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian

Date, October 16, 17

Sun. 5-10ptis.

Ge Payment plans
way, available.

©1984 Jostens, Inc.

See the full selection of Jostens rings on nds in your urcollege bookstore And
see your Jostens representative at:

a _—

Time:.. 10 a.m.- 3’p.m.

place, BOOKSTORE on Thursday and Friday

JOSTENS COLLEGE RINGS.
