Slide-day THE DAVIDPHONIAN#eessn1c2

THE DAVIPHONIAN

John Gabby, Editor-in-Thief Brooke Shields, Executive Secretary
Kevin Whore, Dissappearing Editor
Kimbo The White Lion, Mangy Editor
Will Not, Susiness Killer
Andy Died Rich, Neil McSnorkle, Olds Editors
Red Barron, Sporting F ly-boy

Billy Budd, Featured Melville
Color Me Brown, Opinionated Editor
Robert Neck Bite, Non-Photograpic Vampire
John Elsewhere, Averting Everyone
David Maynot, Circulation Ciéttter
Ann Hoddy, Put-down Editor

We don’t care

In The Davidphonian’ s never-ending battle to raise students’ aware-
ness, we (the editors) now tackle the hot issue of the possibility of a
Men’s Concerns Committee. The freshmen organizers of the committee
are now awaiting a charter from the National Chauvinists’ Society. They
plan to kick-off next year with a men’s awareness week.

Problems the MCC will attack include: quality of beer, quality of
women, and availability of condoms. They say they will publish a
“Guide to Women at Davidson” pamphlet each year to raise funds for the
group. They hope that activities, like inviting Playboy photographers to
campus, will make people aware of their special concerns.

We at The Davidphonian are strongly indifferent to the group. We
realize the potential danger in actually taking a side on this issue, so in a
rare turn of events, we are neutral.

To be in favor of the group would mean editorial suicide. We would
undoubtedly be inundated by the prolific writings of numerous
feminists, who would force us to publish an all-Opinions issue.

Due to the overwhelmingly male population at Davidson, we de-
cided not to oppose the group (nicknamed “The Vocal Majority”),
either.

So, we figured, “Why Bother?” We do nothing up in the office on
Thursday nights anyway! We acquired a “slack” attitude, but we don’t
care. On the issue of the jokes in the calender, we’re sorry. They’re
mostly inside jokes that nobody gets.

We give up. We don’t care about WDAV, the SGA, parking, Kappa
Sig, or especially the Men’s Concern’s Committee (which doesn’t con-
cern us).

Hay,
ef
NOt to p UN teag
ave an al’ -4 1S is su
ING to ©, bec
SOmer; ‘

D Writ;
im .
es, "Mting it It's
Teat

Congratulations

This is the last parody issue of The Davidphonian for this term. Andy
Barron and Brooke Knight will take over next term. Good luck!

FELT SO POINTLESS.

EVER SINCE I STARTED
WORKING FOR THE DAVIDSON-
JAN “LETTERS” SECTION , PVE

2———SS2-kX —VavA——VYV]A]VA SF S—_

Letters

Freebies

To the Editor;

Why doesn’t your paper have any
coupons? Don’t you understand that college
students don’t have much money, and could
use a few breaks? Sure, your paper is free,
but we could all stand to be a little more
thrifty anyway. Because we don’t have
much money here at college. Except the
Hods, of course.

And why do they call you just““Editor?”
Don’t you have a first name?

Ralph Nader

Just kidding

To the Editor;
We were just kidding. Sorry. Ha ha.
The Kappa Sigs

Free love

To the Editors;
It has come to our attention that there is
a problem in understanding the intimate ex-
pressions of some of the Davidson student
body. Put simply, we do not feel that the
college is making a liberal effort toward
emphasizing “free love." Free love is that
most personal expression (physical or

otherwise) that anyone can make towards
another individual. It bursts the bonds of

morality, social acceptibility, and taboo —
for how can the human spirit be so bound?
Human souls are ageless and sexless, so
why should the expression of truly free love
be confined to these trifling externalities?
For example, could not pedastry be under-
stood to be the highest form of parental af-
fection? Could not incest be understood as
“rolling one’s own?” Certainly this is free
love. The point of all this is that the college
should take action, yes — that’s it — ac-
tion! We propose the creation of a RUDE
Love committee, or more presicely the
Raised Understanding of Displaced Expres-
sions of Love Committee. The role of the
RUDE Love committee would be to open
the minds of the college commmunity to al-
ternative forms of intimate expression. In
addition, the outreach arm would include
programs at the local day care center and a
special ministry to prisioners. Finally, a
special medical advisor should be ap-
pointed to oversee any problems that the
group might face. The popularity of the
RUDE Love proposal is spreading like a
plague across American college campuses.
We'd be keen to guess that there is much
more interest in a RUDE Love committee at
Davidson than any one will admit to. We
think its time to come out of the wardrobe
and ‘fess up.
The North American Man-Boy Love As-
sociation

Litter Policy

Yeah, sure. Go ahead and send
your stupid opinion in. Make sure,
however, that it is in our grubby
hands by at least a month before you

actually expect to get it published.
We just imposed some new resric-
tions: It cannot be about 1)
feminism, 2) gays, 3) South Africa,
4) Kappa Sig, or 5) anything that
anybody gives enough crap about to
come to us and complain. Doesn’t
give you too many options, does it?

Get the idea? Nobody cares what
you think, especially us!

Letters, are cool with us as long
as they are short and funny. We
don’t mind them as much because
usually there's not enough space for
the writer to be obnoxious. The
Davidphonian is here for the editors
to be rude, not for the readers to say
what they think (assuming, of
course, that the readers can think).
We appreciate your not caring.
