10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Another Committee

We applaud Dean Terry’s recent realization that the philoso-
phy behind the self-selection process may actually be bogus. We
appreciate his decision to form a committee to study the viability
of Self-Selection.

It is undeniable that the system which now rules the court
needs changing: Many former freshmen have been hurt, and if
the system does not change, the same will be true for many
more.

The system also needs modification because the mood of the
court has changed. Three co-ed eating houses have closed in
three years. In the wake of these closings, some freshmen have
begun a push to revive the Davidson chapter of the Kappa Sigma
fraternity. Terry has already given permission for the fraternity
to return to campus. The students have the responsibility for
completing the task.

The Committee is a great idea, but will the recommendations
of such a committee fall on deaf ears, as so many similar recom-
mendations have in recent years? We’ll see next year.

To survey the freshmen is another good idea, but the survey
has to be done carefully: A representative random cross-section
is necessary; the survey-takers themselves have to take it seri-
ously, and the questions have to be worded without bias.

If this committee does its job, then some good ideas will
come out of it. These ideas need to be acted upon immediately.
Otherwise no changes will be instituted, and another year (or
couple of years) will go by causing freshmen anguish. If some-
one says, “Why hasn’t the self-selection system been changed?”
the college will then reply, “We already studied that.”

The system needs to be more realistic. It has the possibility to
be more realistic. Let’s make it so.

Friday, January 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

oe i
4 aN Hil Git |

a Hl Hit

1124
Ait
ii

ul lll
a

i p?
il!

Al

\" " it ip iil"

te bi
v3 es

1M
(hy Ali i

at ur Map »

Letters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the. school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball; Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker. Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson.
David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston, Matt Morris, Doug
Robelen, Chris Sullivan

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith

Staff Artists: Richard Clowdt, Kim Nikles

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen
Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Davic
Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachz
Laure Van Dierdonck

Self-selection

Dear Davidson,

In 1970, the Board of Trustees adopted
a new social system for the college — the
self-selection system — which was sub-
sequently implemented in the school year,
1971-72. Since that time, much _ has
changed — the type of houses on Patterson
Court, the social needs of the students, stu-
dents’ perceptions of the spirit and work-
ings of the system and their attitudes about
the philosophy of self-selection itself. Stu-
dents, faculty members and administrators
alike have expressed a desire to reconcile
the incongruity between the philosophy and
practices of self-selection as well as assess
the current attitudes about the social life and
the Patterson Court selection system. For
this reason, the college has offered us an op-
portunity to study the situation.

Dean Terry has appointed a committee
to investigate the viability of the philosophy
of self-selection, the current attitudes to-
ward the system, the ways in which the
freshmen are introduced to houses on the
court and the effects of rush on the
academic and social life of the college. In
the spring, this committee, consisting of the
following people, will make recommenda-
tions to the Board of Trustees: Dr. Joe
Gardner, Dr. Sue Ross, Peter Baay, Ed-
ward Hay, Charles Jenkins, Lisa McNeilly,
Dan Murrey, Ollie Wagner, and recent
alumni, Mr. Freddy Clayton and Mr. Rich
Perkey.

In order for us to make these recommen-
dations, we need input from the student
body, and we plan to elicit this response in
several ways. Within the next week,
freshmen will receive a simple question-
naire concerning their perceptions of and at-
titudes about the system. On Feb. 12 at 7:30
p.m., a forum, open to all members of the
college community, will be held in the 900
Room to discuss current attitudes about the
philosophy of self-selection, rush practices
and their effects on campus life, and possi-
bly some creative ways of resolving prob-
lems that may exist with the system. At that
time or shortly thereafter, another question-
naire will be given to the entire student
body. This second survey will contain some
scenarios that may be viable alternatives to

the present system as well as room for com-
ments. Of course, any member of the com-
mittee will be glad to discuss these issues
informally with individuals as well.

The committee plans to make its recom-
mendations by mid-April, and these are
your opportunities for input. We encourage
everyone to think seriously about these is-
sues, discuss them within the houses and
with friends, and provide constructive com-
ments. Your help is essential if we are to
provide a system that meets the needs of the
campus.

Patterson Court Selection
Study Committee

Work load

To the Editor:

In this age of emphasis on utility, why
go to a small, liberal arts college with an
emphasis on core curriculum and which
leaves the graduate with no apparent mar-
ketability? A typical Davidson graduate
might reply “to get a good education,” “to
learn how to learn,” or “to be able to learn
how to think for myself.” I do not believe
Davidson adequately allows its students to
do any of the above three. Davidson pro-
duces hard workers and well-organized
people, but does not really allow its stu-
dents intellectually to be all thay can be.
Quite simply, the work load at Davidson is
too heavy to allow the typical student time
to think. If one has to read 70 pages of
Plato, a 30-page chapter in a text book
about the Renaissance and do an economics
problem set, one hardly has time to ponder
Plato's philosophy or examine the implica-
tions of the Renaissance. I believe students
would get more out of their academic ex-
perience at Davidson if they had a little
more time to think about what they are
learning, rather than feeling they must
hurry through whatever they are studying to
get on to the next course’s work. Both
Davidson’s faculty and its students would
benefit from a change of emphasis from
quantity to quality of a student’s work. A
bright student who chooses Davidson be-
cause it is academically challenging wants
the intellectual challenge of learning about
new things not the challenge of getting
through 200 pages of text a night.

Martha Myrick
