Friday, April 4, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Two airplanes crash, Libyan conflict ends

By JANE AURELL
Headlining the news for the week of
March 26 - April 2:

International

Superpower news — On Saturday,
the Reagan administration rejected a
Soviet offer to discuss a ban on nuclear
testing, suggesting instead that the
Soviets accept better verification require-
ments that could lead to U.S. ratification
of two existing test treaties; to date there
has been no Soviet response to the offer.
Secretary of State George Schultz said on
Sunday that the U.S. and U.S.S.R. will
not “go anywhere” until both sides quit
conducting their diplomacy in public.

In other developments, the State De-
partment said Saturday that U.S. officials
in Moscow have talked to Svetlana Al-
liluyera, daughter of late Soviet leader
Josef Stalin, who reportedly wants to re-
tum to the West. Aviation Week and
Space Technology reported that the
U.S.S.R. is expected to launch its first
space shuttle at the end of this year or
early next year. Finally, Soviet school
girl Katerina Lychera ended her 10 day
peace visit to the U.S.

In South Africa, 30 people were
killed last Wednesday in one of the
bloodiest days in over a year of unrest.
Earlier in the week, anti-apartheid black
community leaders decided to drop
school boycotts and adopt a broader strat-
egy of black consumer boycotts, rent
strikes and possibly a general strike.

In other news, making an overt show
of support for the outlawed Communist
Party, more than 20,000 blacks defied
government bans on political meetings
and gathered in Port Elizabeth for a
memorial service for a South AFrican
Communist Party leader. In what South
Africa’s government technically consid-
ers an act of treason, Bishop Desmond
Tutu has called for international
economic sanctions to be imposed
against the white minority government.

Latin American news — On Mon-
day, a Mexicana Airlines Boeing 727,

destined for Los Angeles from Mexico
City, crashed into a mountainside killing
all 166 aboard; nine Americans were
among the casualties. In Nicaragua, say-
ing that attacks by Sandinista troops on
contra base camps in Honduras were “to-
tally defensive operations blown out of
proportion by the U.S.,” Nicaraguan
President Daniel Ortega said Sunday that
he would not talk with contra leaders but
would be willing to negotiate with the
U.S. and the “chief of the contras,”
which is President Reagan.

Asian news — Making his first ap-
pearance since his deposition by Corazon
Aquino as president of the Philippines,
Ferdinand Marcos called the current gov-
emment of the Philippines a “dictator-
ship” and said he still considered himself
the rightful president. Marcos also hinted
that he may retum to the Philippines. In
South Korea, protesting against U.S.
support for President Chun Doo Wan and
demanding democratic elections,
thousands staged the largest anti-govern-
ment demonstration in six years.

In the Middle East, after 75 hours of
defying Libya, U.S. Navy ships pulled
out of the Gulf of Sidra, declaring the
confrontation a “glittering victory.” A
Newsweek magazine poll reported that 75
percent of Americans believe the U.S.
was justified in attacking Libyan ships
and a radar site. Unidentified sources re-
ported on Tuesday that Egypt was origi-
nally part of a U.S. plan to invade Libya;
the Reagan administration has denied the
report. Soviet leader Gorbachev accused
the U.S. of conducting a “punitive opera-
tion conceived and planned in advance”
against Libya and proposed talks on the
withdrawal of U.S. and Soviet fleets
from the Mediterranean and urged a con-
ference on Mediterranean security.

European news — Prior to receiving
a 38-minute private audience with Pope
John Paul II on Saturday, Secretary of
State George Shultz met with Greek For-
eign Minister Carlos Papoulias in a repor-
tedly successful attempt to “smooth out”

NEW AND EXPANDED!!

featuring TGIF from 6-8 this Friday
April 4. Music by Bobby Houck and

munchies from the store

$1 cover.

the relationship between the two NATO
allies. Last Thursday, West Germany
gave a “modified” endorsement to Presi-
dent Reagan's “star wars” plans; Britain
was the first U.S. ally to endorse the pro-
gram and Israel, Italy and Japan are ex-
pected to join.

In England, the historic British
Hampton Court Palace was severely
damaged by fire. Finally, in his Easter
address to over 200,000 gathered in
Rome’s St. Peter’s square, Pope John
Paul JI denounced terrorism, torture,
war, and abortion.

In other international news — On
Wednesday, a TWA Boeing 727 was
forced to make an emergency landing in
Athens after a bomb believed to be lo-
cated in the passenger compartment
exploded killing four Americans; a small
Arab terrorist group is claiming responsi-
bility. Last Friday in India, religious
fighting between Sikhs and Hindus broke
out in the northern Punjab state; the fight-
ing is reported to be the bloodiest con-
frontation in the strife tom state in
months, Six U.S. congressmen went to
Haiti on Saturday to discuss the small na-
tion’s needs.

National news

Veteran actor James Cagney, 86,
died on Saturday.

Pathologists have identified the re-
mains of six of the seven astronauts killed
in the Challenger explosion of January
28.

In economic developments, Presi-
dent Reagan may campaign for a con-
stitutional convention to writé an amend-
ment to the Constitution requiring a ba-
lanced budget. Prompted by growing
concern over falling oil prices which hit
an eight year low of under $10 a barrel on
Wednesday, Vice-President George
Bush left for Saudi Arabia on Friday to
discuss the unstable situation.

Fueled by dry, hot weather, fire con-
tinues to plague 12 Southeastern and
Midwestem states

Last Thursday the Department of

Transportation said that 21 states already
having the 21 drinking age law must
make their laws stricter by May 30 or lose
federal highway funds. States not having
the 21 law will also lose aid beginning
October | if they do not pass laws meet-
ing federal rules.

The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) on Tuesday
levied its largest fine ever by ordering
Union Carbide Corp. to pay $1.4 million
for violations at its West Virginia plant
which resulted in a gas leak last August.

In the realm of research and statistics,
the following findings were released this
past week. The National Center for
Health statistics revealed that the mar-
riage rate for 1985 was the lowest in eight
years with divorces increasing; however,
the study said that Americans were still
about twice as likely to get married than
divorced. Extensive lung damage among
chronic marijuana smokers is just one of
the findings cited by a research review
made by the Haight-Ashbury Drug
Clinic; the study was prompted by con-
cern over the rising potency of marijuana
on the market today (seven percent THC
content as compared to .5 percent -— one
percent in 1976.) A study in the Ameri-
can Journal of Diseases of Children re-
ported that smoking and low 1.Q. go
“hand in hand.” On Monday, a U.S. gov-
ermment study revealed that many violent
criminals, including murderers and
rapists, serve less than seven years in
prison. The Presidential Commission on
Organized Crime reported that organized
crime will cut a typical person's income
by nearly $80 a year.

Finally, the Louisville Cardinals de-
feated the Duke Blue Devils, 72-69, to
claim the national college basketball
championship.

Thought for the week: — ‘A person is
not mature until he has both the ability
and willingness to see himself among
others and to do unto those others as he
would have them do to him.”

H. A. Overstreet

WEEShort term leases available in furnished ar unfurnished.
_ Phone 967-2234 of 967.2231 Today!

