News Shorts

SGA Elections Candidates

Senators (3 elected each class):

Sophomore Class (89);

John Black, Braden Bledsoe, Charles Bratten, Angela Carter, Bob Comish,
Bryan Counts, Mary Scott Cruse, John Engel, Susie Grant, Valerie Graves, Lee
Nagendran, David Petranick, Will Willoughby

Junior Class (’88);

David Cors, Jay Hurt, Karen Kemerait, Ken Mobley, Joe Moss, Richard Tan-
kard

Senior Class ('87); -

Ted Davis, Betsy Downs, Christie Johnson, Libby Sanders,

Honor Council Representatives (3 each class elected):

Sophomore Class (’89);

Beth Anderson, Kathryn Barnett, David Becker, Meb Brown, Craig Carlock,
Alison Chapman, Molly Cochran, Beth Drummond, Laura Gabel, Phillip Grif-
feth, Ken Jones, Kara Kooken, Pete Mangone, Joe Martin, Barbara Matheny,
Susan Montgomery, Susan Okel, Ed Powell, Larry Ray, John Reuter, Marian
” Singer, Rob Spiegel, Bill Sutton, Gordon Tanner, Bob VanKirk, Charles Winn
Junior Class (’88);

Lauren Adams, Carter Adcock, John Allison, Mandy Barret, Russell Booker,
Bob Boyd, Andy Bright, Caryn Coppedge, Mark Crowther, Andrea Diedrich,
Karin Douglas, David Ethridge, Mary Lou Hampton, Dave Handy, David
Maynard, Grant Morain, Joe Moss, Matt Newsom, Otis Northington, Steven
Omli, Margo Prickett, Ranjit Rawley, Jennifer Rebman, Walt Reynolds, David
Rosselot, Gretchen Schoel, Bob Sherrill, Grier Stewart, Debbie Stiehr, Todd
Wallenius, Chip Wittman, Eric Whytsell

Senior Class ('87);

Dawn Bhasin, Barbara Brooks, Ann Cartledge, Kathleen Caldwell, Mary Chap-
man, Bryan Feigenbaum, Allen Futral, Bobby Houck, Catherine Loftin, Tyler
Long, John McNeill, John McNichols, Edwin Page, Betsy Peeler, Anne San-
ders, Joe Simpson, Liz Stanat, Shannon Stowe, Mary Van Antwerp, Laure Van
Dierdonck,

Student Conduct Council (2 elected);

Elizabeth Boone, John Patten, Rufus Timberlake

Review Board (1 elected);

Elizabeth Brown, Tim Brown, Conrad Doenges, Lance Luckey

CCRL (2 elected);

Laurie Ballenger, Florence Hay, Bobby Houck, Currie Howard, Jeff Jacqmein,
Tracie Hill Mayes, Jeff Meyer, Jennifer Wallace

Gifts-In-Kind announces humor contest

OPEN — to all Davidson Students

PRIZES — First Prize, $100.00, Second prize, $50.00, Third prize, $20.00
JUDGES — Professors Bob Manning, Charlie Ratliff, Gil Holland
NATIONAL JUDGE — Bemard Slade, author of Same Time Next Year, Tri-
bute, and writer for movies and TV

ENTRIES — Can be a poem, or any form of prose, play, article, etc. The
phrase “Gift-In-Kind” must appear somewhere in the entry, and the entry must
be suitable for publication in a college publication such as The Davidsonian.
Contest closes April 30. In addition to the cash prizes, the winning entries will
receive publicity. Contact: Jim Herring, Executive Director Gifts-in-Kind X-
412 or 892-7228

Bell and Hall writing contests announced

1986 VEREEN BELL MEMORIAL AWARD FOR CREATIVE WRITING

The Vereen Bell Award carries a first prize of $75, a second prize of $50,
and a third prize of $25. The judge this year is the distinguished novelist William
Styron, author of Lie Down in Darkness, The Confessions of Nat Turner, and
Sophie’ s Choice. He will present the awards at the Spring Convocation, Friday,
April 18 at 10:30 a.m.

1986 R. WINDLEY HALL WRITING AWARD FOR FRESHMEN

The R. Windley Hall Award carries a first prize of $40 and a second prize of
$20. Manuscripts will be judged by members of the Davidson College English
department, and the awards wil! be presented by William Styron at the Spring
Convocation.
Rules of the Competition:
1. The Vereen Bell competition is open to any regularly enrolled Davidson Col-
lege student above the freshman class. The Windley Hall competition is limited
to freshmen. Manuscripts should indicate the name of the competition for which
they are submitted.
2. All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall
in any recognized category of creative writing, such as fiction, drama, poetry or
the essay.
3. Students may submit as many entries in as many different categories as they
wish. poems should be submitted as groups rather than as individual entries.
4. All entries must be typed, double spaced and must appear on one side of the
paper only. Poems may be single spaced.
5. Name of the writer must be enclosed in an attached envelope bearing the title
of the entry. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.
6. All entries must reach some member of the Department of English by 5 p.m.
on Tuesday, April 1. Students entering either competition must be present at the
Spring Convocation.

Wednesday, March 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Student dies in car accident

By HEIDI HOOKER

Senior mathematics major Timothy S.
Wen, 24, was killed in a car accident Fri-
day, March 14. His car was struck at Fifth
Street and I-77 in Charlotte by a Charlotte
woman who was later arrested for DWI
(Driving While Intoxicated). He was buried
Tuesday at Mamosa Cemetery. Wen was in
a car driven by senior Laura McGee, who
suffered fractured ribs and contusion of the
lung. She is now in good condition and is
recovering at the President’s home.

Wen came from Houston, Texas, and
had transferred to Davidson College in the
spring of 1984 from the University of
California at Irvine. He had previously at-
tended Harvey Mudd College in Clarem-
ont, California. Despite his late transfer,
Registrar Sue Ross commented: “He be-
came a part of the community immediately,

made friends among many groups at David-
son and in Charlotte, and he continued to
befriend international students as they ar-
rived on campus, helping bring them into

the community.”

At the end of fall term 1985, Wen
ranked 14th in his class of 338. He was
placed among the top 24 students in the
Seventh Virginia Tech Mathematics Con-
test in November, 1985, and passed the

Goethe Institute's Mittelstufenpruetung,
which qualified him to study in any Ger-
man-speaking University. In spring of
1985, Wen studied in two Goethe Institutes
in Germany.

Wen had planned to use his aptitude for

languages (Chinese, English, and German
in particular) and numbers in an interna-
tional computer firm. He desired to study
Chinese at a university in Taiwan after
graduation in order to pursue such career
motives. He was also interested in later pur-
suing study in computer science in Ger-
many or the United States.

Wen was an accomplished pianist and
had studied piano both at Salve Regina Col-
lege in Newport, R.I. and at Davidson. He
was active in his churches in Houston and
Charlotte.

c

PiKA ’s to canoe for cerebral palsy

By HEIDI HOOKER

Patterson Court fraternity Pi
Kappa Alpha has initiated a
$25,000 fund-raiser for United
Cerebral Palsy, involving paddl-
ing canoes from Lake Norman to
Charleston, South Carolina. The
canoe trip will represent the
biggest fundraiser in the national
fraternity’s history.

This charity event originated
from plans made by seniors
Charles Jenkins and Allen Mast,
and junior John Stanley one year
ago. They decided on concentrat-
ing on a local charity project, hop-
ing to locate an establishment
which would use their funds to
“generate results in a concrete
way,” Mast commented.

The United Cerebral Palsy

sector in Charlotte contacted Pi
Kappa Alpha officials at this time.
Mast remarks that the PiKA offi-
cials were impressed with the
UCP program designed to
mainstream preschool and
elementary school children with
cerebral palsy into the public
school environment.

The UCP program now
reaches 150 kids in Charlotte but
has a large waiting list and limited
capacity. The PiKA charity will
help this UCP chapter expand in
application to operational costs
and scholarships for families of
kids with cerebral palsy under fi-
nancial pressure. Mast says that
the PiKA house “has confidence
in these people and their purpose.
They are very enthusiastic and

supportive.”

The PiKA house hopes to gen-
erate publicity for the United
Cerebral Palsy cause and antici-
pates national coverage of the ac-
tual charity event.

The PiKA’s fund-raising has
involved contacting alumni and
businesses in Charlotte. Mast
explained that the PiKA house
hopes to get the bulk of the dona-
tions from corporations in Char-
lotte and have asked businesses to
give $2300 in their recent con-
tacts.”

Mast claims that the fund-rais-
ing is “right on target with their fi-
nancial goat.” The first company
they contacted gave a check for
$2500.

The canoe trip will take place

from June 1-15, and will cover
250-270 miles depending on the
route. There will be three canoes
with two persons in each. The
canoers are Mast, Stanley, junior
Sean Miller, Jenkins, senior
Marty Foil, and sophomore Doug
Batchelor. Mast asserted, “We
will finish.”

The canoes will be followed
on their route by a road crew of
three: seniors David White and
Brian Rice, and sophomore David
Murrell. This crew will be respon-
sible for maintaining radio com-
munication with the canoes, set-
ting up camps, and preparing
meals.

In preparation for the event,
the PiKA house has had people fly
and drive the canoe route in order

to determine the best and safest
way of travel. They have covered
expenses and attained equipment
by appealing to private com-
panies.

The PiKA house has set up a
great deal of publicity for the
event with the help of the David-
son College Relations office.
They hope to have Governor Mar-
tin and Congressman McMillan
attend the ceremony at the Lake
Campus on June 1.

Currently, the six canoers are
Preparing themselves through
weightlifting and canoeing three
days a week. They will have to
canoe 6-8 hours a day on their 15
day trip.
