The Davidsonian .
Friday October 10, 1986

Opinions
Fraternities not perfect but should not be eliminated

Leland Park

Pardon me while I speak a word in behalf of fraternities‘
at Davidson!

I guess this is unusual for someone on the payroll, but I
belonged to a fraternity when I was a student here in the late
50’s and early 60’s (it has since folded), and I have been a
faculty advisor for three fraternities at Davidson during my
20 years of post-studentdom. I also proudly state that I have
been a faculty member of the College Union Board and its
Policy Committee for many years. These various vantage
points, I hope, give me some perspective on the current dis-
cussions.

The system in the “olden days” was nearly a total one. It
was harsh, too. We had rush in the first five days of school.
Probably 95 percent of us joined one of the 12 national
fraternities around the court. With the beginning of second
semester, freshmen then ate their meals at the fraternity
houses, and the remaining men were left to eat in the Col-
‘lege Union. That’s all there was then. There were no other
options. And for some, it was a lonely existence to be “left
in the Union.” Professor Sam Maloney served as the facul-
ty advisor once for a group which tried to organize yet a 13
fraternity, Lingle Manor it was called. But, alas, it did not
get off the ground for a variety of reasons.

The hue and cry was loud and long for the five percent
who, by their choice or by the choice of the 12 fraternities,
were not members. You’d recognize,the comments and the
cries, for you hear the same thing today. It became the
cause celebre of the day. “Let’s eliminate fraternities,”
they said. There was no other alternative offered. And the
fraternities did not defend themselves well .
all. Regardless of the reasons (and that could be a full issue
of The Davidsonian itself), the system faltered.

Yet fraternities did continue, or at least some of them
did, and they have come back, not only at Davidson, but all
around the country. Membership 1 is up, and chapters are
flourishing. oe

There is a basic reason why fraternities flourish: people
like to be with other people with who they are congenial.
Davidson students are selected because they are good at
academics, they are good in sports, they have something to
offer the community in which they live, they like to have a
good time socially . . , and they enjoy doing these things
with others of like interests with whom they are personally
congenial. Fraternities began for this reason, they continue
for this reason. If they did not exist, they would be_in-
vented. Don’t think for a minute that if fraternities did not
exist that everyone would mix and mingle in the Commons
at dinner time. No sir! I'd look for Sam or George or ole
Whatshisname and the others who are going to play flicker-
ball with me this afternoon. I’d look for those guys who are
going to volunteer to work at the Day Care Center Thursday
afternoon. And with it came time to have a beer (if I were

~-21; that is), I'd look for those same guys, since it was with-

them that I have much common ground, common experi-
ences, and common values. I would have a quasi frater-
nity . . . a group of men getting together for camaraderie
because of common interests and because I enjoy their
company.

The national affiliation is not the be-all-and-end-all,
but it is mighty important. It offers continuity of tradition,
values, influence for good. It offers praise when it is appro-
priate, it levies penalties when that is appropriate. There is
a standard which is established to which all strive.

The advent of women on this campus was a wonderful
change.-I like it! And I share the pride they have in the
women’s houses’ which they have developed: Rusk,
Warner Hall, and Spencer. They are a credit to our campus.
And they are a natural formation, a grouping of people of
similar interests, like fraternities. At Davidson they have
chosen not'to be affiliated with a national sorority, and that
is fine. That is their option.

‘Similarly, with the advent of coeducation, co-ed
houses have evolved. Mike Stephens said that approxi-
, Mately 170 students eat in-two of these. It's a fine option,

. not well at_

and they should be proud of their houses and their contrib-
utions to this campus. And that is their option.

The Vail Commons is a facility which is the envy of.

every other academic institution I know. And some stu-
dents, who do not join fraternities, who do not join Rusk-
Warner Hall-Spencer, who do not join the co-ed houses,
select to go there. And it is their option.

And now there is a group on campus, over 40 strong,
which meets weekly and is working to organize themselves
into a fraternity (Kappa Sigma). They have found a group
which they enjoy, and they want to organize formally.
More power to them. And it is their option.

There is something for everyone, and each is a viable
and honorable and desirable option. No longer is there five
percent singled out. Today — as opposed to the 60’s —

there are options.

My brief, as I said at first, is for the fraternities. Not that.
they are perfect, they are not. But they are good and an hon-
orable presence on this campus and in this community.
They are not the all-pervasive presence they were from the
*20s to the ’60s. They no longer enjoy 4 95 percent mem-
bership among the student body. In fact, there are about
350 fraternity members on this campus. Since only sopho-
mores, juniors, and seniors can participate fully in a frater-
nity (a fraternity man cannot eat at the house until his
sophomore year), we are talking about 350 men out of 609
men in these upper three classes.

That is only 25 percent of the 1392 member student

body; that is only 57 percent of the men in these three class- -

es. That is a far cry from the 95 percent of the total student
body in my day. Yet this group of men has joined together,
as any other group joins together, for common goals, and
their activities, by adding members each year, as does any
other organization. They seek new members and invite
them to join. If the percentage remains true, 57 percent of
the freshmen men will decide to join a fraternity this year.
Forty-three percent will join the co-ed houses or elect to
wait a year or so (upperclassmen get invitations to join
every year) or will decide for a variety of reasons not to
join. I am sure there are disappointed men among the
freshmen who do not join a fraternity. They are hardly os-
tracized, however. They are not left by themselves in the
Commons, they remain with the other freshmen classmates
for-the entire year. They continue to be active on campus
and in campus organizations. A full life is ‘theirs . . . if
they want it . . . as an independent or as a member of one
of the co-ed houses or as an organizer of another ter group on
campus. There are options.

Cries continue to come forth from different corners
about the evilness of fraternities. 1, quite candidly, am tired
of it. Icommend to you Shel Robinson and John McNeill’s
excellent rebuttal of the view-from-the-past statement of

i Steve Soud. They are right-on-the-money. And I do not be-

lieve that Steve Soud’s comments are anything other than
the regurgitation of comments of the 60s . . . trying to tear
down the system in the name of the 5 percent (in the 60’s)
rather than to build up and improve a system which offers
much to so many.

Fraternities are not bad nor are they a bad influence on
the Davidson campus. And they deserve to be treated as
part of the total package, not singled out as the perpetual
bad guys. While the college in 1837 had a “Commons,”
called then Steward’s Hall, it was not long afterwards,
when fraternities came on campus, that they began offering
dining facilities, first in off-campus boarding houses, later
on-campus. The college, actually, did not have any respon-
sibility for providing eating facilities for students. These
same fraternities organized most of the social activities on
campus, relieving the college ofthat duty, also. The con-
tribution to the operation of this college over the years by

fraternities has been considerable.

Today fraternity men are involved in all aspects of this
campus and this community..Together they have raised
over $90,000 for charitable causes in the last academic
year. They are editors of The Davidsonian, president of the
SGA, nine are vice presidents or treasurers or committee
chairmen on the Union Board and countless more are active
on Union committees; president of the Y. Student Services
Corps as well as other offices in that organization; they are.
ROTC Cadet Battalion Commanders and president of
Scabbard and Blade; head of the Waterski Club; lead the
College Democrats and College Republicans, direct the
Psychology Club; serve as president of classes and as class

r

senators. One is chairman of the Honor Court and is joined
in the administration of the Honor Council by a dozen other
fraternity men. There are around a dozen fraternity men on
the varsity soccer team, a dozen-and-a-half (from four
fraternities) on the football roster, and several are on the
basketball and tennis rolls. ;

There are fraternity men who coach at the local YMCA,
tutor kids in the elementary school, serve as big brothers,
go bi-weekly to the Huntersville Retirement Home to work

. with the residents, have clothes drives for Kenya, raise

money for the community center and for the Crisis Assist-
ance Ministry, work with the Davidson Annual Fund Tel-a-
thon, and on and on.

For a group of approximately 350 men, 25 percent of
the total student body,.I would say this is a mighty impres-
sive contribution to our campus and community.

Having said all of this, J think that there are several pro-
posals which should be considered seriously for the im-
provement of Davidson’s social system:

qt) Assistant Dean of Students for Patterson Court.
This is not a new idea; this type of position existed in the
past. And I hasten to add here that fraternity men, members
of the women’s houses; co-ed houses, and independents
have hot a better friend-at-court than Dean Will Terry. But
there is a limit to how much one person can do. I propose
this assistant dean of students be in charge of promoting all
of the houses on Patterson Court. He would work with the
fraternities and the other houses to establish activities, set-
tle common problems, represent the houses to the adminis-
tration and the community-at-large. He would work with
them administratively to encourage more continuity in
leadership and fiscal responsibility (this was once done by a
‘person hired for this purpose in the Business Office.)

a7

(2) Faculty Advisors. Every house on the court ‘should
be required to have an active faculty advisor. These ad-
visors would also meet at least once a quarter with the As-
sistant Dean to share and plan and work out’ differences
which arise.

—(3) Patterson Court-Gouncil. The college has over the.
years said that it was not going to serve in loco parentis. If
that is still the policy, then restrictions regarding access to
activities of the court should be established by members of
the court, not by a committee whose decisions exceeded its
charge and whose membership was not representative of
the whole. If limitations on access are to be, they will be
more universally supported if those who carry out those
rules, as with the Honor System, are those who make the
rules.

(4) Support the Present Organizations. The college
should be proud of the fact that there are social organiza-
tidns of several varieties on this campus, that each serves a -
very worthwhile purpose, and thaf each should be encour-
aged and supported, whether they be fraternities, single- -
sex houses, co- ed houses, or the Commons. If new. groups
wish to form, they should be fostered and nurtured if there
are enough members to make them economically viable.
Each of these groups should be free to add to its member-
ship in the manner-which it chooses (within the college ;
rules of no racial discrimination). If this variety of oppor-
tunities exists and each is a strong alternative, a viable op-
tion, then the chances of anyone getting hurt are
minimized.

nee

Davidson College has had fraternities for over one cen-
tury. It’s graduates — those who are now working and
whom we hope will continue to support the college — are
an outstanding group. Most of them belonged to fraternities
and, of course, remain interested in them. Now there.are -
additional opportunities for social affiliation, which I
applaud.

Let’s not eliminate or injure ‘fratemities at Davidson;
let’s help each fraternity and every organization on Patter- .
son Court flourish.

Park is the director of E.H Littie library
