Friday, March 14, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

Men’s and women’s tennis teams begin seasons

Men stand with 3-3 record \Women’s team 2-1

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson men’s tennis team got off
to a rocky start with three straight loses, but
turned things around with three victories to
even their record through the first week of
the season.

The Wildcats opened with a lopsided 9-
0 loss to Duke, a perennial top twenty team.
Consecutive losses to North Carolina State
and Penn State followed. Coach Jeff Frank
said that Davidson played poorly in the
N.C. State and Penn State matches. The
Cats played inside against Penn State, a
team especially tough on indoor surfaces.

Davidson’s turn-around began against
William and Mary. An improved team ef-
fort led to a 9-0 victory in which all of the
individual matches were close.

The Cats followed up with 6-3 victories
over The College of Charleston and West
Chester. The College of Charleston is one
of the top five NAIA programs in the coun-
try and fields a “very tough” team from top
to bottom according to Frank. Davidson
beat them 4-2 in singles and 2-1 in doubles
to win a close match.

The singles matches caried the Cats in
their victory over West Chester. Affer win-
ning five out of six singles matches, ‘David-
son could manage only one doubles victory.

Responsibilities:

bills

However you must:

The position

If you are interested, you must act fast —

Sophomore Jim Thompson plays
number one singles, with junior Hayes Dal-
las, sophomore Bill Young, senior Craig
Hall, junior Michael Meyer and freshman
Sebastian Koch finishing out the line-up.

The doubles teams consist of Young
and Dallas at number one, junior Trip
Caldwell and Thompson at number two and
Hall and Meyer at number three.

Davidson has been hurt by injuries and
illness so far this year. Sophomore Rick
Hodge, who played number four singles
last year, is out indefinitely with a knee in-
jury. Craig Hall is just getting back to full
strength after injuries kept him out of two of
the first three matches and freshman Blake
O’Brien, a solid doubles player, is out with
an illness.

Coach Frank is optimistic about the
Cats chances of improving on last year’s
21-10 record. He said the Cats have a com-
petitive but very young squad. Furman and
UT-Chattanooga will again be the teams to
beat in the Southern Conference and both
have retumed strong teams.

Davidson will play three matches at
home next week. They will host Amherst
on Monday, Wooster on Friday and Har-
vard on Saturday, all at 2 p.m.

Call John Elster (-6153) for an interview by Tuesday, March 18.

AD MANAGER

The Davidsonian is looking for a reliable, outgoing,

By PAM HARMANN

This year’s version of the women's ten-
nis team is marked by a balance of experi-
enced upperclassmen and aggressive
freshmen. Although- their record is 1-2,
coach Caroline Brown claims this year's
team could be the strongest team ever at
Davidson.

The first loss came at the hands of a
strong North Carolina State team, 9-0. One
must realize that N.C. State is an ACC Di-
vision I university with scholarships,
wheras Davidson will compete for the na-
tional championship at the Division III
level.

Last Sunday, March 9, the team experi-
enced its first victory 9-0 over Haverford
College. This Tuesday they fell to Duke 9-
0, once again a strong ACC Division |
school. This weekend the tennis team tra-
vels to Eastern Carolina, and on Tuesday
will meet Rutgers here at Davidson.

Brown feels comfortable about Eastern
Carolina, a team Davidson traditionally de-
feats 9-0. According to Brown, the only Di-
vision I schools that Davidson cannot beat
are those in the ACC. A goal this year is to
close the gap between Davidson and those
schools.

The number one slot on the team is

hardworking person to become Advertising Manager.

— Seek ads from local businesses — Have ads for the week in the
hands of the layout persons by Tuesday — Keep clear accurate records— Send monthly

You get: — 10% commission on all ads printed (upwards of $60 a month) — A great
activity to put on your resume

_— Have acar or regular use of one— Have some knowledge of the
Cornelius, Davidson, and Mooresville area. — Be willing to spend 15-25 hours a
month — Currently be a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior

will be held from mid March through Winter term 1986-1987.

filled by sophomore Amy McNelis, fol-
lowed by freshman Marion Stone at number
two. Senior captain Lolly Johnson plays
number three. Freshmen Jane Price and
Alice Stubbs are currently numbers four

4

This is definitely
our strongest

team ever

9

and five respectively, followed by junior
Libby Sanders at number six. With Stubbs
and Price out with illnesses, junior Debbie
Podolin and freshman Martha Johnson
moved into the line-up. The balance of ex-
perience and new talent makes for good
chemistry, good enough for Brown to say,
“This is definitely our strongest team ever
and we will be in an excellent position to
chase the national championship.”

