News

Sweeny Todd on stage in November

The theater department presents Sweeny Todd, the Rarber — An Olde
Fashioned Melodrama, acomic thriller about a [9th-century barber who slits his
customers’ throats, as its fall production Nov. 6-8,

The play will be performed i in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. Nov. 6, and at &
p.m. Nov. 7-8. Ticket prices are $5 general admission and $3 for students and
senior citizens.

Sweeny Todd the Barber is an account of the life and.misanthropy of Sweeny
Todd, a Victorian London urban legend with a blood lust. This melodramatic
adaptation is by Gearge Dibdin Pitts.

The cast of “Sweeny Todd” consists of Mac Hardcastle us the twisted barber
himself, Lance Luckey, Margarita Lassaletta, Ginger Burke, Jonathan Darsey,
Eric McClarty, Catherine Norton, Cameron Dougan, Randy Ingram, Ramona
Oliver, Mark Wright, Noel Brewster, Jim Dillon, Brian Kosanovich, Dan
Michaelis, Sarah Powell, Callie Hammond, and Donna Peters in supporting
roles. Branson Prosser and Tim Jacobs also appear as the juggling Broccoli
Brothers. Davidson senior Wayne Magnider serves as assistant director.

Spring term in Spain

Applications are available for the Davidson spring term in Spain program
from Lois Kemp, Spanish professor currently on leave, and are due by the end of
the tenn.

The program takes place in Madrid, but students will visit Granada, Valen-
cia, Cuence, Sevilla, Cordoba, Avila and Salamanca during the term. Students-
will live and take meals with a Spanish family while there and will attend class

2

Shorts

Participants will receive credit for Spanish 250: Conversation and Composi-
tion, Spanish 251: Contemporary Culture and Spanish 252: Contemporary The-
ater and Film. Students may take an independent study instead of one of the three
courses scheduled.

The cost of the program is the same as the regular cost of staying in Davidson
for a term with an additional $375 for program-related expenditures, $375 for
round-trip airfare to Madrid, $200 minimum for personal expenses and what-
ever cost to get to New York where the flight to Madrid will depart.

Applications are available now and are due by Nov. 17. If all spaces are not
filled, additional applications will be taken until Dec. 19. A regular application,
five recommendations, authorization for release of medical records and a $100
deposit are necessary to apply. See Dr. Kemp in Chambers 202 if interested.

a

Material contributed by Jim Dillon

CROP walk raises $2,000

The annual Davidson CROP walk took place Sunday, Oct..1] beginning at

the Town Green and went on for 10 kilometers around the town. Approximately
50-75 people participated, and they raised approximately $2,000, according to
Charlie Summers, college chaplain. The money will go to the Church World
Service who will administer the funds to a local charity and to a worldwide
hunger project.

Material contributed by Jim Dillon

Friday, October 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

three mornings per week.

Professor discusses experiences teaching in China

By DAVID BEARCE

Dr. Melford Wilson, a profes-
sor at Winthrop College, was the
guest speaker at this week’s Open
Luncheon. Held in the 900 Room
yesterday, his talk, entitled “An
American Professor in Shanghai,”
was based on his experience in
China teaching Chinese students
about intemational relations.

. Wilson's talk dealt with the
changes currently taking place in
China. Wilson stated that “every
_aspect of the society” is changing Storie
~ from the villages to the univer-
sities. He stressed that these
“changes have losers as well as
“winners.”

Among the biggest losers. ac-
cording to Wilson, are the college
professors and students. Both
groups are on a fixed income and
are ineligible to receive bonuses
because they don't produce a mar-
ketable product. Conversely,
some of the biggest winners are
the workers in industry because
they receive “vacations and
bonuses.” Wilson added that often
“the unions give bonuses once a
month and they provide other
wonderful things.”

Another group of winners are

the people who live near the cities.
Wilson described a process where
the land is divided and the people
contract with a commune to work
this land. The commune receives

a Certain percentage and the work-
ets keep the rest. Wilson stated
that these people “can make quite
a lot” enabling them to afford

‘wxuries like “a new color TV.”

Perhaps the biggest group of
losers are the people who live in
the “way back areas,” according
to Wilson. These people are un-
able to grow anything “except
potatoes and rice.” Wilson stated
that these people “see success
stories on TV” and they know they
- ase falling behind the rest of
China. They are “still dressed in
little blue uniforras” and they are
becoming “very depressed.” But
Wilson praised the changes being
made in China when he stated that
“on the whole things are much
better off.”

4

Another major point in Wil-
son's talk focused on Chinese re-
lations with the rest of the world.
Wilson felt that China has “realty
Opened up to the outside world.”
He explained that 13 years age
China officially recognized only
Albania and North Korea. But
now they have official relations
with 134 other countries.

Tounsm to China has ex-
panded because jt is “probably the
enly safe place to go anymore,”
stated Wilson. The Chinese are

"Let us be your connection to great Przzal”

very pleased to welcome addi-
tional tourssts because they are a
“tremendous source of hard cur-
rency.”

China is trying hard to under-
stand other countries but Wilson
asserted that they have “no con-
cept of the rest of the world.” The
Chinese students are only inter-
ested in studying Japanese, Rus-
sian, and English and as a result,
‘they know very little about other
__ places of the world like Central____
America.

Finally Wilson addressed the
issue Of Sino/Soviet tapproche-
ment. He stated that “China has
never really turned toward the
U.S.” He felt that Sino/Soviet re-
lations were a way to protect the
Chinese against the Soviet Union.

The Chinese are not secure about _

the Russians and feel they “aren't
very cultured.” But the Chinese
need certain things like “techni-
cians and spare parts” that only the
Soviet Union can provide,

Nevertheless, Wilson stated |-

that the “Chinese don't just love

the Americans.” The Chinese willl i
be cordial to the U.S, but the’:

“Chinese are looking out. for
China.” He added that “we should
not take Chinese actions at ‘face
value’ because the Chinese are
playing psychological games.”

Withrop College professor Melford
Wilson speaking on his teaching ex -
periences in China

Mon. - Thos, 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fi, and Sat. 11:00 am. - 11:00 p.m.

Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.

892-9046
