THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor

Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor Bill Bugg, Features Editor

Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor

Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Will: Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
\ Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

rolled, not the small number of students at the school. Davidson com-
petes in Division I in men’s athletics despite small numbers, why
shouldn’t the school expect to face the same challenge in women’s athle-
tics?

Considering the lack of foresight exhibited by the athletic department
in handling women’s athletics, the constant desire to avoid the rules by
receiving waivers, and the unfortunate means taken to insure Davidson’s
eligibility for next year, Davidson College has lost a potential national
championship, the confidence of many women athletes and some of its

Women’s athletics

In the last few months, the ill effects of a decade of mismanagement
in the Davidson women’s athletics program have finally appeared. Re-
cently women’s tennis, ranked number one in the nation in Division III,
learned they would not be eligible to compete in the Division III National
Championships. Last weekend, five Davidson women played in a golf
tournament with eight other teams in order to keep Davidson athletics,
both men and women, from becoming unclassified next year. Two of the
five women had never played golf before this scapegoat team was or-
ganized as a sacrificial lamb to appease the NCAA gods.

The cause of this chaos in women’s athletics are many. One is simply
being caught in a trap of vaguely worded NCAA bylaws. However, ad-
ministrative neglect and Davidson athletics’ never-ending requests for
waivers from NCAA regulations that don’t fit the athletic department’s
master plan are responsible for the recent confusion.

Two NCAA bylaws lie at the heart of Davidson’s athletic problems.
One, Article XI, section 1-b, leaves vague the issue of whether a Divi-
sion I school, such as Davidson claims to be, needs to sponsor six
women’s varsity teams or six Division I women’s varsity teams. The sec-
ond bylaw in question, Article X, section 2, allows a Division I school to
have one women’s sport compete at the Division III level, an option
Davidson wished to utilize in the area of women’s tennis.

The problem lies with the lawyers and varying interpretations of Ar-
ticle XI. Athletic Director Christopher Morris asserts that Davidson felt

it had met this rule by sponsoring women’s varsity teams in basketball,
tennis, field hockey, cross country, and both indoor and outdoor track.
Unfortunately for Davidson, the NCAA decided the proper interpreta-
tion was that a school must have six Division I women’s sports. Since
basketball is unclassified and tennis planned to compete at the Division
III level, the NCAA viewed Davidson as having only four of the neces-
sary Six teams and threatened to leave Davidson unclassified next year, a
nightmare for any team planning to make a post-season appearance simi-
lar to the men’s basketball team this March.

Davidson's response to the NCAA’s interpretation was to ask for a
waiver, Claiming the college had made “an honest mistake” in rules inter-
pretation. This policy effort was lead by Morris and President Kuyken-
dall. The effort failed and thus the women’s tennis team got “promoted”
to Division I and the women’s golf team made its brief, but noteworthy,
appearance.

The problems in women’s athletics have been dealt with far too
slowly and decisions have been made without much foresight. Despite
learning in early September that six women’s Division I sports were

needed, only in the last two weeks have the fifth and sixth teams “ap-

peared.” After hearing from the NCAA, women’s basketball was known
to be inelligible to be one of the six back in October. Had the athlectic de-
partment consulted section four of Article XI, women’s basketball’s in-
eligibility would have been discovered before the team’s schedule was

made, therefore giving ample time for cotfection. Yet women’s tennis ‘

was not promoted to Division I until April, midway through their season.

If the crucial rules determining whether or not Davidson would be

-eligible were vague ,.why didn’t the athletic department seek clarification
in advance? Was the athletic department afraid they would have to raise
basketball and tennis to Division I status if they sought an NCAA inter-

pretation? Did the athletic department fear that notifying the NCAA in
advance would ruin their ignorance claim that was so important to their
hopes in gaining a waiver?

. Davidson must lead the NCAA i in waiver requests with both football __

and women's. athletics.: The athletic department continued to seek a
waiver for women’s basketball and tennis even after being turned down
twice. Recent waivers granted to the military academies on the basis of
their small female populations encouraged the administration to: try
again. What the athletic department chose to ignore is that while the mili-
tary academies aren't the biggest schools in the nation, their low num-
bers of females is based on the small percentage of female students en-

pride.

I GUESS YOU LADIES

ARE WONDERING

WHY YOU'RE
HERE 000 ELL)

or 4
foley

YOU'RE GOING A
TO PLAY GOLF. \ =
|
) x |
~ <i _
7 =
wy} ——
xt) es a W7- r
baal i
Ir A |
“A | .
\. Bs / J
\
Mt Mee <a ~
V2, 4/71) NRE | Oe .
° iY om, . 0 aanes » OR
- “ELSE..
NCAA

Letters

To the Editor:

‘In his opinion, “Some Problems with
On-Campus Living,” Mike Stephens as-
serts “no ivory tower is without its dragons,
but there is no excuse for such intelligent
people to act so mindlessly.” We beseech

' Mike to reflect upon his own intellectual

prowess. Mike, how smart is it to say you
are “laying in your loft” as you did in the
second paragraph of your opinion? Mike,
you employ “overbearing” in a novel man-
ner when you modify “workload” with it.
Usually, “overbearing” connotes a psychol-
ogical attribute, as “domineering” does
(e.g. The overbearing guest annoyed his
host.) Perhaps “overwhelming” would have
been less awkward in the third sentence of

paragraph eight where you query rhetori-
cally “Who can complain about an over-
bearing workload over a quart of Bud-
weiser?” Indeed, should this have been a
rhetorical query at all? Is it obvious that one
forfeits the prerogative to complain about
his workload merely by drinking a beer, or
is this a non sequitur? Could one not con-
ceivably drink a beer and study simultane-
ously? Mike, perhaps you couldn’t, but one
can surmise from your grossly flawed opin-
ion that you are functioning under a formid-
able handicap already.
Laura L. Ratchford '86
Ida W. Phillips ’87
Elizabeth M. Blair '86

- Davidsonian’ s
“Opinions” section is the
only forum on campus for ex-
|. tended commentary on perti-
Ment: issues. We will print.
opinions on any subject of
‘general interest’ We receive
from the campus commiunity.
- We adhere: to the following
guidelines:

; ‘Any: opinion should be
in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday
_before publication, unless it
is typed on IBM diskette, in

which case it-is due 5- ‘p.m.

" Tuesday.

‘We accept typed and
legibly-written articles only.
‘Opinions should — be

Opinions Policy

‘unsigned ones if there is a

.author is known to us (the
ions for content or style,but

thor of substantial changes.

signed. We will only print
compelling reason and the

editors).
‘We will not edit opin-

for common English usage
only. We. will inform the. au-

‘Because of limited
space, sometimes we are not
able to print all opnions sub-
mitted in one issue. We re-
serve the right to select arti-
cles ‘from those we receive
for publication. We will at--

tempt to print any withheld
article the following week

