Friday, January 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Who's on first?
Clearing the air concerning Jim McMahon

By ANDY BARRON

I like Jim McMahon.

I doubt NFL commissioner Pete
Rozelle does, and I imagine a lot of folks
in Dallas, Los Angeles, New York and
Davidson don’t either, but I do and don’t
mind admitting it.

For those of you who spent Sunday
studying, sleeping or God knows what
else instead of watching the NFL
playoffs, you might not know what
Chicago Bear quarterback McMahon
did. After being told twice by Rozelle not
to don an Adidas headband and paying
one five-thousand dollar fine for ignoring
the command (Rozelle fears too much
commercialization of the NFL), McMa-
hon slid the Adidas band down to his
neck and wore a white headband with

“Rozelle” written upon it to hold back his
hair.

If I was Rozelle, I'd probably fine
McMahon all his play-off earnings for sd
blatantly thumbing his nose at the office
of commissioner. But I’m not Rozelle, so
I just laughed.

In addition to disobeying the com-
missioner, McMahon regularly vocalizes
displeasure when coach Mike Ditka calls
plays McMahon doesn’t like. McMahon
also wears sunglasses at all times off the
field due to an eye injury (he had a fork
stuck in his eye during childhood). In
short, McMahon is confident, cocky,
mouthy and probably gets on someone’s
bad side without too much difficulty.

McMahon also runs with the football

one of the key ingredients in the Bears’
charge through the NFL with a 17-1 re-
cord and their first ever Super Bow! ap-
pearance.

The Bears are a team that has made
the tired old NFL exciting again. Defen-
sive coordinator Buddy Ryan’s boys
have made defense fun to watch. Led by
linebacker Mike Singletary and a host of
big mean, fast guys, this is a defense that
must make Bear Hall-of-Famer Dick
Butkus proud.

Yet on a team that has a hord of strong
personalities including the NFL’s all-
time leading rusher Walter Payton, de-
fensive back and Yalie Gary Fencik and,
of course, William “The Refrigerator”

spiritual leader. The Bears win with
McMahon at the helm and the offensive
seems to thrive on his eccentricity.

Every time I watch McMahon play, I
think about the fact that this eccentric,
fun-loving, wildman played his college
football at Brigham Young, not exactly a
“Party School.” McMahon, when asked
what the best thing about BYU was, re-
sponded “leaving.” I bet there were a
couple of people at BYU who weren't too
upset to see McMahon go.

I also bet the Bears are glad they have
McMahon. Go ahead and stick your
tongue out at any network camera trying
to get a shot of you, Jim, or stick it out at
Mr. Rozelle all you want. I think you're

without fear, has a rifle arm and has been

Perry, McMahon sticks out as the

great!

Wildcats destroy UT-Chattanooga, 67-48

By EDWIN PAGE

Saturday night in Johnson
Gym the Davidson Wildcats took
a big step towards contending in
the Southern Conference with a
convincing 67-48 victory over the
University of Tennessee-Chat-
tanooga. The Cats laid many
doubts to rest by thoroughly
dominating UT-C, a traditional
Southern Conference power.

The game was a snooze test
for the first 12 minutes as neither
team seemed to have received a
pre-game wake-up call. But with
6:14 left in the half, senior Gerry
Born hit a jumper and was fouled.
He converted the free throw and
extended the Cats lead to 17-11.
Born’s three-point play ignited the
Cats as they reeled off 11 points
before the half while the Mocs
could manage only two baskets by
center Lance Fulse making the

halftime tally 28-15 Davidson.

Although the Cats shot just
over 35 percent from the field in
the half, they held UT-C to a mis-
erable 26.9 percent.

UT-C regrouped somewhat at
halftime and came out playing a
better brand of basketball, but it
was not quite enough. Twice the
Mocs came within 10, but the Cats
would simply not fold. At 35-25
Born hit two free throws to in-
crease the margin. At 41-31 a
jumper by junior Chris Heineman
again denied the Mocs a chance to
close the gap any further. Born
made the backboard his personal
possession in the second half, col-
lecting 10 rebounds. He also

picked up nine points to make his -

final totals 12 points and 13 re-
bounds.
Although struggling with his

shooting, sophomore __ Derek
Rucker led the Cats with 14
points. Senior Ken Neibuhr, play-
ing perhaps his strongest game of
the séason, chipped in 13. Senior
Jim McConkey and sophomore
Jeff Himes both contributed
strong rebounding performances,
with eight and seven boards re-
spectively.

Throughout the game, David-
son exhibited an extremely ba-
lanced attack. The Cats got 22
points from the starting back-
court, 22 from the starting front
court and 23 from the bench,
showing the depth and balance of
this team.

This was the first Davidson
victory over UT-C since the 1980-
81 season and served notice that
the Cats are a team to watch in the
Southern Conference.

Wrestlers pin U. of South, Hampden-Sydney

By KEITH FINCH

Davidson wrestling began its regular season this Satur-
day at Furman in a three-way match with Furman and the
University of the South.

Wrestling coach Tom Oddo said: “We split — we won
eight matches and we lost eight matches. We only lost by
the numbers. The guys are attacking better, they’re getting
more experience, and I’m pleased with their performance.
They just need afot more wrestling, more mat time. It’s not
a matter of talent or conditioning, but experience.”

In competition with the University of the South, David-
son’s 134-pounder, freshman Mark Harris, pinned his op-
ponent in 1:43. Sophomore Bill Breidenstine, wrestling at
142 pounds, also scored a pin — in 1:17.

Freshman Rufus Timberlake, at 126 pounds, and junior
J.T. Lay, at 150 pounds, on their matches by scores of 9-0
and 9- 4 , respectively. Four Davidson grapplers — junior
Mike Adams at 118 pounds, sophomore Tim Heinze at
167, senior Don Stovall at 177 and senior Griff Elder at 190
— chalked up forfeits and earned six team points each to
win the match for Davidson by a score of 37-15.

Davidson also locked horns with Furman in a much
more difficult match-up; the grey-clad grapplers succeeded
in pinning fully half of Davidson’s 10-man squad to the
mat. Nevertheless, Adams and Lay pinned their oppo-
nents, while Breidenstine and Stovall won by scores of 6-5
and 8-5, respectively. Heavyweight Branch picked up a
forfeit, but Davidson remained six points behind when the
match ended in a Furman victory, 30-24.

The Davidson wrestlers gave home fans their first
chance to see the team in action at another three-way match
held this Wednesday in Johnston Gym against Hampden-
Sydney and Barber-Scotia. Davidson and Hampden-Syd-
ney opened up the match (since Barber-Scotia was lost
somewhere on the road from Concord) and the Wildcats
proceeded to make a strong showing. Davidson's wrestlers
at the lighter weights, Adams and Timberlake, received
forfeits, so the competition began in the 134-pound weight
class when Davidson's Harris lost by a technical fall.

Things began looking up after that, though; Davidson's
Breidenstine put forth a good effort and rode his 142-pound
opponent well enough to force a 4-4 tie, while at 150
pounds Lay took his opponent to the mat twice and rode out
the match to win 6-0. Freshman Sherb Sentell, at 158
pounds, fought a trying but victorious match against a
somewhat reluctant opponent; he earned points for a
takedown, an escape and riding time, as well as a penalty
point acquired when his opponent fled the mat (and wound
up sprawled on the hard gym floor) to win his match by a
score of 5-2.

At 177 pounds Stovall pinned his opponent in 3:06,
while Elder, wrestling at 190 pounds, lost by pin as the re-
sult of some unfortunate upper-body work. In the
heavyweight division Branch accepted Hampden-Syd-
ney's forfeit to round out Davidson's 32-17 victory.

Davidson's team took a breather while recently -arrived
Barber-Scotia romped Hampden-Sydney by a score of 44-
3. At 142 pounds Breidenstine demonstrated lightning

speed in winning a rough-and-tumble 6-3 decision, while at
150 pounds Lay moved so fast that he escaped from his op-
ponent in less than fifteen seconds — twice. Lay's quick
and persistent shooting won the match by a score of 6-0

Tim Heinze came up from behind to win the match at 167
pounds; he was trailing 9-7 when a tilt led to a pin 3:17 inio
the match.

In the heavyweight match Davidson's Branch, at 245
pounds, tackled his 273-pound opponent by shooting at his
legs instead of tying up with his arms. After shooting for a
single-leg takedown and winding up trapped underneath
his opponent, Branch escaped and immediately took his
opponent down while the Barber-Scotian complained be-
cause his shoe had come off. That gave Branch enough
points to win his match by a score of 4-1, but Davidson still
lost to Barber-Scotia 31-15.

Oddo commented on the match: “I think they wrestled
very well. Everyone wrestled a full match. We're a lot
more organized this year. It’s the first time in about five
years that we've filled up all the weight classes, practices
are a lot more organized and we're dealing with a lot more
technique. We are young. though — we've got three
freshmen starting, and only two seniors.”

This weekend the Davidson wrestlers will travel to
Lexington, Virginia for a dual meet with Washington and
Lee University. They'll be back home again next Wednes-
day at 7 p.m. for another tri-meet, this time against Pfeiffer
and North Carolina A & T.

