Friday, April 25, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

3

Terrorists murder Kidnap victims; Congress fights

By DAVID WILLIAMS
Headlining the events of April 18-24:
Internationally — A terrorist group

allegedly linked to Palestinian terrorist
Abu Nidal murdered three kidnap victims
in Lebanon, including two British and
one American. The bodies of the victims
were found on a mountain road east of
Beirut. British authorities said they have
firm evidence of direct Libyan involve-
ment in the kidnappings, but Libyan offi-
cials denied the charges. The Revolutio-
nary Organization of Socialist Moslems
distributed a videotape of a man hanging
from a scaffold whom it identified as mis-
sing British journalist Alec Collett, who
was kidnapped by Islamic extremists in
March 1985. In London, British officials
arrested a man suspected of trying to
bomb an El Al flight. Meanwhile, Libya
buried 20 victims of the U.S. raid amid
angry anti-American protests.

President Reagan said some Euro-
pean allies had proposed a stronger attack
against Libya than the one undertaken by
the U.S. on April 14, but that the U.S.
decided on a limited bomb strike. How-
ever, Reagan reaffirmed his commitment
to act again against Libya if it can be
linked to new attacks against Americans.
Reagan said he would not rule out mili-
tary retaliation against Syria and Iran if
they can be linked to terrorist attacks.

Great Britain ordered the deportation
of 21 Libyan students described as threats
to national security. The chairman of Bri-
tain’s Conservative party said the U.S.
owes it favors, such as easier U.S. ex-
tradition of I.R.A. guerrillas, for its sup-
port of the U.S. bombing of Libya.

Italian Prime Minister Bettino Craxi
said Italy would respond with “severity”
to any new Libyan attacks on Italian terri-
tory. West Germany and Denmark said
they would sharply reduce the size of Li-
byan diplomatic missions to their coun-
tries.

Meanwhile, Federal authorities in-
dicted seventeen persons, including a re-
tired Israeli general, on federal charges of
conspiring to sell Iran more than $2 bil-
lion worth of U.S. weapons, including
missiles, helicopters, tanks and fighter

jets.

Senate and House committee mem-
bers recommended that Congress reject a
White House proposal to sell more than
$354 million in missiles to Saudi Arabia.

The Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee announced it will investigate
claims that Nicaraguan contras have en-
gaged in drug smuggling, gun-running,
terrorist plotting and misuse of federal
and private funds. U.S. intelligence
sources disclosed that a helicopter carry-
ing two CIA employees was shot down
last month by Nicaraguan forces who
were attacking contra camps in Hon-
duras.

Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev
said a U.S.-Soviet summit is still possi-
ble this year if the Reagan administration
alters its course of “militaristic and ag-
gressive U.S. actions” in the Middle
East.

Soviet commandos captured and des-
troyed a strategic Afghani rebel base near
the Pakistani border in southeastern Af-
ghanistan. Afghanistan and Pakistan
have accepted a new draft proposal on the
withdrawal of Soviet troops from Af-
ghanistan as a basis for talks in Geneva
next month.

In a major policy reversal, President
Reagan said he had decided to comply
with the unratified SALT II arms agree-
ment by dismantling two older Poseidon
missile submarines. Government scien-
tists said new types of nuclear weapons
under dévelopment for the Strategic De-
fense Initiative could require dozens and
perhaps hundreds of nuclear explosions
to perfect their design.

South African President P.W. Botha
said the government will stop enforcing
pass laws, which prohibit blacks from en-
tering urban areas without government
permits. Botha said anyone in jail for
pass-law offenses would be freed. Botha
also asked parliament to give the South
African Minister of Law and Order pow-
ers approaching martial law authority to
deal with the country’s recurrent civil
strife. The South African government
seized and buried the body of Xhosa tri-
bal chief Sabata Dalindyebo. Five

Give Mom
a greeting for keeps!

Tell your mother and grandmother
how much you care with a gift to
remember from our tremendous
selection. We have free gift
wrapping, of course!!!

Mother‘s Day 1s
Sunday, May I1

The Village Store

hundred soldiers and policemen were
present to keep his funeral from turning
into an anti-apartheid rally.

In other developments — Vietnam
has indefinitely suspended a U.N.-spon-
sored program that allowed more than
100,000 Vietnamese to leave legally and
safely. The Washington Post obtained a
secret U.N. file showing that the U.N.
War Crimes Commission concluded in
1948 there was sufficient evidence to
prosecute Kurt Waldheim for the murder
of Yugoslav partisans.

Ferdinand Marcos predicted that in-
surgents will overthrow Philippines Pres-
ident Corazon Aquino within a month.

Two Cuban refugees who drifted in
rubber inner tubes for eight days were re-
scued Monday by a Coast Guard vessel
25 miles off the coast of Florida.

Finally, Queen Elizabeth II of Eng-
land celebrated her 60th birthday Mon-
day.

Nationally — The Reagan adminis-
tration and Congress began fighting an
“historic” Supreme Court battle over the
constitutionality of the recent Gramm-
Rudman-Hollings legislation. The ad-
ministration claims the law violates sep-
aration of powers by giving too much
budget authority to Congress, while Con-
gressional attomeys defend the law’s
constitutionality and the comptroller gen-
eral’s key role in the budget reduction
process.

The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday
that the First Amendment guarantee of
free expression does not require a higher
legal standard for permitting police to
seize books or movies than to seize drugs
or weapons. In a victory for the press, the
Court also ruled that a private individual
cannot win libel damages from a news or-
ganization without proving that pub-
lished statements about him were false.

A Titan 34D rocket believed to be
carrying a secret spy satellite exploded
seconds after blasting off Friday. It was
the second failure in a row of a Titan
34D.

The Federal Reserve Board an-
nounced it would cut the discount rate to

6.5 percent, the lowest level for this key
lending rate in eight years. The Com-
merce Department said that consumer
prices fell 0.4 percent in March, marking
the biggest decline since 1950. The de-
cline is mainly attributed to a record
plunge in gasoline prices. The Census
Bureau released a study showing that 13
percent of adults living in the United
States are illiterate in English.

The House reversed its position on
salaries for its own members and voted
down an action that would have let mem-
bers make up to $7510 more a year from
speeches. It also removed the cap on
other outside earnings.

In its first vote on the fiscal 1987
budget, the Senate overwhelmingly
turned down President Reagan's request
to terminate 44 domestic programs. The
Senate also voted to restore education
funds cut under the Gramm-Rudman-
Hollings and to raise taxes to pay for the
costs.

Governors of five states testified be-
fore a House subcommittee on energy
conservation that the Energy Department
has used “shoddy” site selection research
for potential nuclear waste disposal facil-
ities.

The Reagan administration said it
would be willing to accept higher excise
taxes on consumers to finance lower in-
come tax rates in the president's tax-revi-
sion plan.

Saying that product liability lawsuits
have jeapordized industries, the Reagan
administration has proposed legislation

that would pre-empt state laws and make
it difficult for consumers to win damages
for injuries in such lawsuits.

The Center for Disease Control pro-
posed to bar immigration into the United
States to people suffering from AIDS.
Meanwhile, a study of needle punctures

and other accidental exposures to the
blood of AIDS patients has found that the
spread of AIDS infections in the nation’s
hospitals is extremely rare.

Finally, twin tomadoes swept
through Sweetwater, Texas, killing one,
injuring more than 90, and cutting a half-
mile wide path of destruction.

b A FORMULA
FOR YOUR
FUTURE

Aw Force ROTC plus your college degree adds up lo a
commission as an An Force offices While youre sulin col
lege our two, three, anc four year scholarships can offset
the high cost of tution, fees and books And you Can receive
$100 per month for lving expenses

We're looking for young men and women who are working
toward degrees in science and engineering areas We have a
very special future for you As an Air Force officer you'll work
at the forefront of technology with modern equipment and
support You'll make the most of your degree and lay the

groundwork for the future

bor yourself and your future, find out more about our for
mula for your future Find out more about Air force ROTC

Contact

