Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

-Beyond Davidson

Headlining the news for the week of Jan.
15-22 —

Mideast News — In Aden, South
Yemen, rival liberal and radical Marxist
factions continue their bloody battle for
control in the violent week-long civil war
that has left 10,000 dead; the radicals are
reacting to what they call South Yemen
President Mohammed’s “pro-Western”
interests. South Yemen is the Arab
world’s only Marxist government and
has close ties with the USSR.

In Lebanon, fighting among Chris-
tian militias and between Christian and
Moslem militias broke out last week rais-
ing new fears that Lebanon is headed
back to the resumption of a full-scale
civil war; the fighting is apparently a re-

— a weekly

news
summary

JANE AURELL

sult of disagreement over the power-shar-
ing consequences of a Syrian- sponsored
peace plan for the volatile country. Mos-
lem factions are accusing Christian Presi-
dent Amin Gemayel of being the major
“impasses” to peace efforts and are call-
ing for his resignation.

Meanwhile, meeting with U.S. spe-
cial envoy Richard Murphy at the Hague,
Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres,
who is on a 12-day West European tour,
said that his country is seriously negotiat-
ing with Jordan and the Palestinian
people about ways to start Mideast peace
talks; Murphy, the Reagan Administra-
tion’s top official on the Middle East, is
on an unannounced European visit to

meet with various Mideast leaders in
hopes of restarting Arab-Israeli peace
talks.

Superpower news — Last week in
Geneva marked the beginning of the
fourth round of arms talks between the
U.S. and U.S.S.R. with a new proposal
by Soviet leader Gorbachev being the pri-
mary issue of discussion. This new pro-
posal calls for the two countries to elimi-
nate all nuclear weapons by the end of the
century; however, Gorbachev said that
this disarmament process is predicated on
the U.S. abandonment of the research
and development of the Strategic De-
fense Initiative. The Reagan Administra-
tion is reported to be carefully consider-
ing the proposal.

Also at the Geneva talks, the
U.S.S.R. called for France and England
to freeze their nuclear arsenals while the
U.S. and U.S.S.R. destroy their Euro-
pean-based missiles.

Meanwhile, the Foreign Ministers of
Japan and the.U.S.S.R. met in Japan last
week and signed a trade agreement and
exchanged invitations for their leaders to
visit each other’s countries; dispute over
the sovereignty of the “Northern Ter-
ritories” has kept the two countries from
signing a formal peace treaty since World
War II. Earlier this week, Soviet dissi-
dent Yelena Bonner was released from a
Boston hospital after undergoing heart
bypass surgery.

Latin American News — The presi-
dent-elect of Honduras said that he is pre-
pared to sign a contadora peace accord in-
volving the removal of the American mil-
itary presence if Nicaragua sends home
its foreign military advisors. A White
House official said Tuesday that Presi-
dent Reagan will ask Congress for $90
million to $100 million in humanitarian
and military aid for the rebels (Contras)
fighting the leftist government of
Nicaragua. The U.S. may also give $40
million in aid originally intended for

Panama to the new civilian government
of Guatemala.

A plane carrying tourists to Mayan
ruins in Guatemala crashed and killed all
93 persons aboard; 11 Americans were
among the casualties.

African News — In Maser,
Lesotho, a small kingdom surrounded by
South Africa, a military coup ended the
20-year rule of Prime Minister Chief
Leabua Jonathan who has been accused
of allowing the harboring of rebels fight-
ing the white minority government of
South Africa; the coup reportedly marks
the end of confrontations between the
two governments of Lesotho and South
Africa.

Still on his American tour, South Af-
rican Bishop Desmond Tutu visited At-
lanta on Monday to receive the Martin
Luther King Peace Prize; Monday was
the first national observance of Martin
Luther King Day. In South Africa, the
country’s largest employers’ organiza-
tion, the Federated Chamber of Indus-
tries, proposed a program for political,
economic and social reform. Somalia re-
ports that a new wave of Ethiopian re-
fugees fleeing government resettlement
programs is putting a serious strain on the
country’s resources.

Asian news — In the Philippines,
two campaign leaders and three aides to
Corazon Aquino were killed in what is re-
ported to be the first campaign-related
violence; Philippine President Ferdinand
Marcos suggested in a campaign speech
earlier this week that a victory by Aquino
would trigger a military coup if Aquino
brought communists into the govern-
ment; Aquino previously denied such a
possibility. If Aquino wins, she says she
will put Marcos on trial for human rights
violations.

Meanwhile, Marcos’s campaign is
being thwarted by the re-emergence of an
incurable and recurring medical condi-
tion. If Marcos should die before the Feb-

Revolts continue in Lebanon, South Yemen

ruary election, the presidency will pass to
the Speaker of the National Assembly
who would then have to decide whether
to proceed or postpone the election until
the ruling party could nominate another
candidate. If Marcos should win and then
die, the newly elected vice president
would serve out the six-year term.

In Laos, the Laotian government re-
jected a U.S. request for a joint investiga-
tion of the possible sightings of U.S.
M.I.A.’s. In Peking, to demonstrate the
seriousness of the communist govern-
ment’s new anti-crime drive, authorities
executed 18 convicted criminals in front
of a huge public rally.

Elsewhere in the World — Breaking
the long-held symbol of British “insular-
ity”, Britain and France announced the
planned construction of a double railway
tunnel under the English Channel which
will establish the first “fixed link” be-
tween the two countries. In aceremony at
the Hague, Spain and Israel established
diplomatic relations.

National news — This week marks
the beginning of President Reagan's sixth
year in the White House. During the first
full examination since his cancer surgery
last July, doctors at Bethesda Naval Hos-
pital removed three small benign polyps
from President Reagan's intestine, the
doctors reported the president to be in ex-
cellent health. Speaking at Washington's
Fort McNair, Secretary of State Shultz
voiced his opinion that the U.S. must use
force to strike back at terrorists.

Finally, don’t forget to watch the
Chicago Bears battle the New England

Patriots for the Super Bowl title on Sun-
day!

Thought for the week: **. . . however
difficult the moment, however frustrat-
ing the hour, it will not be long, because
truth pressed to the earth will soon rise
again... .". — Martin Luther King,
March 25, 1965.

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are inter-
ested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students,
teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP_THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back-
backing). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our ex-
cellent program. For further information writer or call G. William Climer, Jr., Direc-
tor, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

UNITED
CAROLINA

BANK

b

Main St.
Davidson

892-7805
Lake Norman

|-77 at Hwy 73

892-7815

Winter Clearance

Sale

Starts Thursda gan: 16
save 25% to 50% On All
Winter Clothes For Men and Women
SUITS, COATS, PANTS, SHIRTS, JACKETS
SKIRTS, BLOUSES, SWEATERS AND SHOES

9 a.m. ‘til 5:30 p.m.

| John Mack © Son

Downtown Mooresville

Monday thru Saturday

Victorva M.
[soauacs

Happy cand

/

eo

January 25, 1986

