e, Davidfunnyvan Shhh cdadadadaddachchdadod

* THE DAVIDPHONIAN

Red Baron, Black Knight, Colorful Editors
R.J. Gatling, From the Hip Editor Sarah Banal, Urnanasable Editor
Willy Tom, Busiless Manager
Matt Dillon, Snelle McSnorkle, Underwater Editors
ark Chenille, Fabric Editor Free Hamberger, insipid Art Editor
Grizzly Adams, Edwin Meese, Hairy Editors
im Phlegm, Choleric Editor Robin Nestling, Aviary Photographer
Karen Bacchus, Susan Willing, Advertising Themselves
isa Feely, Circulation Enhancer Lyre Koran, Singing Mosley

i

Fishing for beer

As this is our last issue .
to God, to Gathings and all that is great .

. I'm free at last . . . glory be, glory be,
doing my glass . . besides the backstroke: and where is Mark Spitz
these days and what does it have to do with the price of gold medals, fil-
lings or Solid Gold Dancers. How old is Dick Clark, or Tom Clark, or

Tom Kazee, or Mary Thornberry, or Brian Shaw or George Bernard }

Shaw? dead, I didn’t even know she was sick. And I’m sick of hearing
about the Sesquicentennial or the Bicentennial or the Statue of Liberty or
the America’s Cup. Did we win?

I’mlost . . . isthis Davidson or what? Just remember, it ain’t a party
if you don’t party and it’s never too cold to drink beer, especially in
Florida over spring break where they’ve got it when we need it bad and
I’ve been a bad boy lately so swear at me and send me to bed early with-
out a PiKA bedtime story, hot dog or nothin’. If I was hungry I’d order a
pizza from Peregrine’s anyway, or else from The Connection, or Pizza
Trek, or Star Trek . . . Mr. Sulu, beam down Mr. Spock, Bones and
two sausage and onion pizzas, hold the anchovies. Bartender, I still have
a fish in my booze.

Take me out to the ball game . . . and have a ball, son, you’re still
young, but watch for those pretty girls ’cause they'll lose you in a
crowd . . . got to get me some elbow room and a package of Cracker
Jacks, and get the prize inside, especially if it’s cool I won’t care when
we get back . .
Beer Man, I need two Lites cause they’re less filling and a Sol beer cause
it tastes great and because I’ve always wanted to have a Mexican beer
when Fernando was on the mound since he looks, well, top-
notch . .. no Mexican beer, how ’bout a Polar Bear beer or a
Moosehead, something tough; and Beer Man, no fishy beers.

Baby I was born to run, so get in the back of my new Cadillac and
we’ll drive real far in this fancy car and go cross this land to lend a hand to
anyone who won’t carry:a gun round you me from shining sea to shining
sea and then we’ll stop our drive on day four or five and we’ll park the car
in front of a bar and say “get me a brew and a few for our crew” and then
drink till we flop like fish on the floor.

Closing time . . . call a cab, for God’s sake, I’ m bleeding . oh,
that’s just my Bloody. Mary on the sleeve of my $200 shirt, or was it
$7.40 . . . oh, that’s the cab fare. What to do, what to do. . . how

bout some Old Mil’ and some mud racing or swamp swimming or butt-
kicking or bone-splitting of some kind, it doesn’t get any better. So close
down the presses, take a vacation, grab a six-pack and let’s go fishing.

. bartender, what is this fish |

. ho prize, that’s a shame, strike three and Carter’s out; ©

(Gnomes

To the Editors:

I want to protest Monday’s razing of
Natural Resources by the Town Council to
make room for Tom Clark’s gnome outlet.
Natural Resources served an important
need in the community. For instance, where

. are the football players going to get their

steroid granola now? Also lost was the bud-
ding Davidson tradition of “holistic eat-
ing,” where anything found scurrying
across the floor was considered organic
and, besides, a good source of protein.
Plus, I’m not sure the town of Davidson
needs a “Gnome-a-Rama.” The five-story
chrome building under construction just
doesn’t fit in really well with the campus or
the town. The twenty-foot neon “Jesus
Saves” sign may have placated college offi-

. cials, but I still don’t like it.

Chalmers Davidson

Confess

To the Editors:

Okay! All right! We blew it, dammit!
We’ll never get into the NCAAs again and
we'll probably end up playing in the
Podunk League. We couldn’t win in South-
ern Conference football, and now we can’t
win in Colonial League football. The whole

affair has been a disaster, and I take full re-
sponsibility.
Christopher B. “Mud” Morris

Advice

To the Editors:

My sister always opens my mail and
reads it before I get home. What should I
do? I thought that killing her (and every-
thing she loves) was a bit severe, but it’s re-
ally getting on my nerves.

Ann Landers

Get lost

To Ann:

We’ve told you in the past, and we’ll
tell you again, don’t write us at the office!
For God’s sake, you’re a big girl now, and
can handle this on your own. You should be
embarrassed.

Red B. & Black K.

To the Editors:

During my recent clandestine visit to
the campus, I was shocked and outraged to
witness the overwhelming drug use at
Davidson. In addition, I was repelled and —

repulsed.
Hunter S. Thompson

If you have an Opinion

FORGETIT.

