os

Lance Luckey

After overcoming a strong sense of bewilderment, I
wield a pen to respond to The Davidsonian’s most recent

bovine, I generally find their weekly drivel (I mean col-
umn) quite humorous. I have a little problem with their
using “the power of the pen” more as a weapon than a
tool, but I like to laugh as much as the next person, and if
they can do that within even the broadest of journalistic ,
boundaries, fine. The extended circulation of The

Davidsonian should reevaluate its guidelines

offense in last week’s issue, however, which is more
disconcerting. The i image of the KKK once again per-
versely graced the pages of The Davidsonian ‘The hooded
figure appeared inexplicably: in the “Bob the Carrot”
strip, and was conspicuously labeled with Greek letters:
Does the cartoonist feel that his truly relevant insights,
though somewhat garbled by a rather avant-garde style,

—displays of journalistic ineptitude. The first, tono. one’s __ Davidsonian gives rise to further questions regarding _

- Surprise, occurred in last week’s MacLads column. The
duo, already endeared to most Davidson circles, refer-
red to the recently selected Homecoming Queen in an
apparent blatant, derogatory fashion. Because I, like
many other readers of The Davidsonian, didn’t attend
the halftime festivities of the game, I was unaware that
the members of Rusk unabashedly refer to themselves as
bovines. Evidently, this is the sole justification for the
bovine/moo cow (just to make sure we all know what
one is) comment. Isn’t it rather hypocritical that “(t)he
editors reserve the right not to = letters which contain
inside jokes, off-color slurs. ” (“Letters Policy,”
The Davidsonian), but allow one, especially arude one,
in a Features column?

But it is not the writers whom this letter is intended
to lambast. We happen to share a fraternal bond, and it’s .
now difficult for me to be surprised by their zany antics.
Aside from the fact that they occasionally demonstrate
themselves to possess: the class of something less than

Student expresses
thanks

Joe Hoover

I’ve been reading these Opinion pages for two years
now. More often than not, they are filled with many types
of complaints about various aspects of life here at David-
son, be it classes, Patterson Court, athletics, or anything
else we can think of. Well, this letter is written to show one
of the very good aspects of Davidson: the thoughts and ac-.
tions of the administration sat, most prety: the stu-
dents.

lam currently a junlec on medical leave as a sean of a

near-fatal automobile accident this past summer. Through-:
out my recovery period, I: have. received an incredible
amount of ee letters, and phone calls from Davidson
administration, faculty, staff, and many, many students.
The support shown
_ to overcome anyone’s worst nightmare. -
Recently, I was fortunate enough to spend a weekend
. on campus. These were four of the most wonderful days of
my life. The show of love, concern, caring, and most im-
portantly prayers, was overwhelming. Students I had never
met before, students I barely know, and those I know well,
went out of their way to assist me and to show me the best
possible time I could have under the circumstances. New

friendships were started and old ones rekindled. I was so

happy that I did not want to leave.
Though four months have passed since my accident,

visionary problems keep my future unclear. Yet the love
and support that I have received from the Davidson com-

munity are very special. It has given me the motivation and.

determination to work hard on completing my recovery. I

-sexdously, await. the_day_shat_1-will be sble:se-sotumn: to.

school.

Davidson students have a lot to be proud of: our past
accomplishments, our future prospects, and our concern -
for ourselves and others, to name a few. Perhaps many of -

the complaints on these pages are legitimate. If we, the stu-

dent body, work together, maybe some of them will be sol-

ved. ‘In my case, the gratitude I feel towards Davidson, and

especially the students, cannot be expressed in words.

Davidson is a very special and unique place, with one of the
finest student bodies around. , Thanks for everything,
Davidson! r Bee BA ;

Joe Hoover is a junior from Hanover, Pennsylvania .

the appropriatness of the comment. The many faculty,
parents, alumni et al who read the last issue were proba-
bly as bewildered as I when they read this and other
“jokes.” Unaware of their great humor, these readers
surely questioned the discretion of the editors at least, or
the values of the students, however grossly misrep-
resented, at worst. It is the problem of discretion I wish
to address. apparently, the editors haven’t defined their
boundaries very well. Admittedly, I know little about

the inner workings of journalism, but it seems their basic

responsibility is to make their publication presentable to
its readers. Overtly offending anyone would therefore
seem perfectly i incongruous with this goal. The fact that
the editor consults regularly with a libel attorney regard-
ing potentially damaging remarks (damaging to The
Davidsonian, that is) conveys a belligerent, “let’s see

_ what we can get away with this week” attitude. It con-

jures up an image of a child putting one foot in the street
just to see if he’ll get slapped by mommy. It is a second

Use your voice

tes

Lucia Kendall

n by these people has made it much easier

Two. weeks ago the Davidsonian editorial asked the
question, “Why does it seem like students have such a
small voice in the affairs of Davidson College?” Unlike

‘most students, I don’t think the reason is that the adminis-

tration doesn’t want to listen to what we have to say; I think
we are not saying very much for them to listen to.
The article cited the switch to semesters an an example

of the lack of attention paid to student concerns by saying,

“Five years ago there were student-conceived straw polls,
petitions and organized protest; this year there was noth-
ing.” Whose fault is that? Certainly not the administra-
tion’s. = |

Maybe this lack of expression on the part of the students
is a result of the general apathy I’ve heard complaints
about. Maybe students are too busy writing Humes papers
or koayor for — quizzes to notice what’s sdbiaed on

rely on such a vile figure? And why do the editors permit ~~
yet another bit of exposure for this contemptible organi-
zation, which depends so strongly on any publicity it can
get? Though the editors clearly found no fault with this
cartoon, others certainly might — particularly minority
students.. While freedom of the press is highly prized in
our society, it should not be equated with open season
upon anyone or anything a writer or editor might dis-
favor. Last week’s was not the first issue in which the
editors have violated their responsibility to their readers.
I believe a reevaluation of their guidelines and:a greater
sensitivity to the task is in order.

Lance Luckey is a senior psychology major from Cincin-
nati, Ohio

. around them. I don’t know. But there is potential here; if

the voice of students could help stop the Vietnam. War, it
seems like it should be able to keep new w dorms out of Belk
parking lot.

The administration has shown it will pay attention to
student opinions if they are given. Those students who have
spoken up have met with a lot of success. Last year’s di-
vestment demonstrations are one example. Another. is the

_ attention to the mandatory laundry fee. The fee has been

mandatory for a long time, but now that Linda Tatsapaugh
has started a petition and her mother has written to the
Davidsonian, the issue is receiving a lot of attention. The
Davidsonian ran a front-page’ article on it and the SGA
formed a committee to look at the problem and possible al-
ternatives. :

There are plenty of issues that deserve student atten-
tion. If you care about what’ 'S going on at your school,
don’t just complain to your. roommate; do something! Cir-
culate a petition, write a letter to the editors, talk to a deci-
sion-maker, protest, start a crusade. The administration
will listen to you.and you can make a difference.

Lucia Kendall is a sophomore from Pittsburgh, ‘Pennsyl-
vania. pets Z

