BRYANT

To us who have watched the develop-
ment of sports television, particularly
with the advent of cable television early
in this decade, ESPN remains a staple.
Even after its debacles like the USFL and
the MISL, the network has bounced back
with even more profitable packages, such
as the Sunday. night broadcasts air-
ing ttis fall with Gail Gardner and Roy
Firestone. Amongst this turmoil, a stan-
dard ESPN product is the periodic wrap-
up of daily sports events, the everpresent
ESPN Sports Center. Since its inception,
Chris Berman has been the veteran and,
arguably, the most vital member of the
Sports Center staff.

Berman’s talents range widely as.a
sports brodcaster. He has covered count-
less U.S. Opens in both tennis and golf,
NFL Playoffs, boxing, and other events.

Caray’s Motoball escapade at the Good-
will Games last year). However, Berman —

is first and foremost a sports’ desk Tepor- -
ter. In this facet, he has no peer.

normally bore the dedicated: fan. After

require the announcer to keep. the audi-

(though not to the extreme of Skip

Berman puts life into sports eh

all, broadcasts at 11:30 and 2:00 at night

ence (what little: there is at that hour)
awake. He recounts tales of the Major In-
door Soccer. League (MISL) with such

vigor that soccer haters like myself are _

even interested. However, just as he ex-
cels as a sports reporter, his tales invari-
ably lead him to excel in one sport’s re-_
ports. That is, without a doubt, Major
League Baseball.

In 1981, the strike year in baseball,
there was definitely something missing in
life. Not orily was our national pastime in
jeopardy, but Chris Berman was as well.
How discouraging it was to watch him
struggle through accounts of the Interna-
tional League, the American Associa-
tion, and the Pacific Coast League. Al-
though these leagues are definitely viable
baseball producers, they are just not of
the same level as “The Boomer,” Chris
Berman. As I ran outside my house to an-
nounce to my brother that the strike was
finally over, I think I relished more in the

_ thought that Chris Berman would again

provide his provocative comments to the
National and American Leagues than in

/ the fact that these apabuce would resume

play.
You ask, “Why this fascination with

~ a sports announcer and baseball?” First of

all, Chris Berman loves baseball. It’s ob-
vious just by watching him that he grew
-up with the game like many of us did.

_ Secondly, for those who only attend 4 or ;

r is major league games a year Berman
‘brings the game to life. His classic ex-

~ pressions — “Mike Schmidt up in the
seventh and ‘BOOOOOOM!”, “Back
goes.- Winfield. :

BACK,BACK,BACK,BACK,BACK,
GONE!” — and his enthusiasm in deliv-
ering them make the baseball world more
exciting and brings it, by way of cable
television, right into the home.
Finally, the “Boomerisms.” Berman
has developed these catchy phrases,
nicknames for major league players, dur-
ing the course of his career. From-the old
guard, Jose “Can You See” Cruz and
Verne “Golden” Ruhle, to the young-
sters, Oddibe “Young Again” McDowell
‘and Mel “Tammany” Hall, Berman con-
stantly amazes the watcher/listener with
his knowledge of music, movies, and the
. arts, Some: that have mystified me’ in-
clude: Scott “Tellula” Bankhead — it

turns out that Tellula Bankhead was a —

jazz singer in the 1940s — Rafael “Ab-
raxis” Santana — “Abraxis” was the title
‘of one of the rock group Santana’s al-
bums — and Kirby “Union Gap” Puc-
kett — the Union Gap is apparently a
country/bluegrass group whose lead
singer is Kirby Puckett. As a fitting con-
clusion, I would like to propose my “All
Boomer Team” for 1987.

Catchers: Tony “Jalo” Pena of the
Cards and Ron “Talla” Hassey of the

Chisox; First Base: Manny “Kingston”*

-Trillo of the Cubs (Yes, he’s played
first); Second Base: Wally “‘Takin’ Care
of Business” Backman of the Mets and Al

“What, Me’ Worry” Néwitian’ 6f the

Twins; Third Base: Ken “Good Evening,
Mister” phelps of the Mariners and Jim
“Love Me Two Times” Morrison of the
' Pirates; Shortstop: the Giants’ Jose
“Game-Winning” Uribe and the Indians’

Julio “Generalissimo” Franco; Outfield:
Darryl “Please Come to” Boston of the
‘Chisox, Oddibe “Young Again”
McDOwell of the Rangers, “Me and”
Willie Mcgee of the Cards, and Tim
“purple” Raines of the Expos; Starting

. pitchers: Rick “Innocent” Lysander of

the Twins, Mario “Scotch aad” Soto of
the Reds, Frank “101 Strings” Viola of
the Twins, and the Twins’ Bert “Be
Home” Blyleven; Relievers: Mike “Izod”
LaCoss of the Giants and Tom “Ex”
Hume of the Phillies.
Not to be. outdone, I have compiled

- several “Boomerisms” for the Davidson

baseball team. At third, there’s Dave
“Like a” Turgeon;. catching Dan “Sim-
ple” Simonds; second baseman Michael
“Amsterdam” Holland; left fielder Brian
“the Eel” Moure; center fielder Dave
“Blue Demon” DePaul; infielder Joe “the
Vacuum” Hoover; pitching David
“Gatsby” Fitzgerald.

As you see; Chris Berman has had a
profound, though perverted, impact on
my Career as a sports spectator. Two final
Suggestions I would like to make. First,
with apologies to Dr, Martin and all the
Eco professors, I would like the network
to cancel “ESPN Business Week” which
now occupies the time slot of the morning:
Sports Center. Secondly, with little apol-

* ogy; I would like to propose that MTV be

outlawed in the Union TV lounge from
11:00 P.M. to midnight, particularly dur-
ing baseball season, so we, the more sane
elements of the campus, can watch

Sports Center and “The Boomer.”

In SCS >

ry

The lack’ of reason dominates sports
controversies due to the simple fact that
. sports is based on emotion. Do thousands

woof, woof” as Georgia kicks-off be-
tween the hedges based on logical con-

painting your face in the colors of your
favorite team and holding your index

number one” exemplify mature _be-
havior? Of course not. .

of adults yell. “Sick’em Dawgs, woof,
sideration of what they are doing? Does,

finger in the air while screaming “We're.

ference and the women’s teams played at
whatever level seemed appropriate. The _
Southern Conference seemed the perfect _
haven for our Wildcats since our rivals,
while being Division I, only had four or
five times as many students as we. In the
~ Southern Conference Davidson could
pretend to be a big school and fans like

me ‘could cheer Passionately for our

classmates.

The clock struck midnight when the

Southern Coriference began requiring all’

members to. play a minimum number of

conference football games to remain a

~ member of the organization. Football oc-
cupies such a fond spot in American cul-
ture because football is the one sport
where bigger is.always better. The bigger-
the players, the bigger the roster, the big-

_| This importance of emotion in sports
makes it difficult for me to separate my
head from my heart when considering

Colonial League / Southern Conference /
DivisionI mess. —

going to watch Davidson’s various teams

political science class poll which asked
me to indicate how many sporting events
Ihad gone to this year. Since there was no
box marked “100” I had to inaccurately
report I had been to “over ten.” —

When I was a freshman, everything

Davidson’s current plight in regard to the -

. T love sports and I sarcatey: enjoy

do their thing. I recently completed a

was hunky-dory in Davidson’s corner of e
the sports world. All the men’s teams ex-

“‘ger the coaching ‘staff, the bigger the
budget, the better chance a team has in
football,

~ Davidson may be many different

- things to many different people, but
Davidson is not big in terms of student
body and athletic budgets. For this
reason, the other Southern Conference
schools, while not the biggest in the land,
are so much bigger than Davidson that
unless Davidson turns into-an armed
camp bent on the sole purpose of turning
out gridiron gladiators and letting the
slow; skinny guys go-somewhere else,
Davidson will always. get beaten by its

;. bigger rivals.

As Davidson’s size makes it impossi-

_ ble to be competitive in football, it also
hampers the other sports with: insufficient
financial resources. While the basketball
team has scholarships to work with, the
other coaches have to be miracle, workers

- to be competitive on the Division I level:

Although I would hope. great soccer
players would come pay full tuition and

play for Coach Slagle because they want
to come to Davidson, I also know Duke
has, full scholarships, a national-power
reputation in the sport and-can give stu-
dents a pretty. good education to boot.
While Davidson will get some. fine

of talent.
Davidson has had some successes on
the Division I front over tthe at few

pict pe Davidson’ s ability t to

play with the big boys. However, the
year Davidson beat Duke in soccer, the
team barely had a .500 record and. came
in third in the conference. Despite the un- —
precedented wealth of talent on the —
baseball team over the last three years,
they have not placed higher than third in
the conference. One NCAA Division I
tournament appearence by all of David-
son’s teams combined over the last four
years does not constitute success.
\ ‘The problem comes down to one sim-
ple statement: Davidson likes to play like
a big school on the athletic field while re-

Guild hire more sfacaliy’ imme the lah

Can Davidson afford big time athletics?

cept football played in the Southern Con-

maining 2 small school on the financial
front. Davidson, mainly the Trustees,

must decide if Davidson is a Division I
~“< school once and for all. If Davidson is a
-. Division I -school,- all sports should be

given budgets comparable to the basket-

~ ball team, Davidson’s. only Division I
2 sport in terms both competitive and fi-

nancial, If Davidson cannot make such a
commitment, then drop the teams to Di-
vision II or Hil and let the women’s tennis

Jean win afew national championships.

The emotional fan in me wants more

_. money. The fan knows players like Ace ©
~~ Tanner and Steve Condon won’t come to

players, in the tong run'the Dukes of the. Davidson if it is not a Division I school.

world will always have a superior stable

The fan'likes big-time athfetics and wants -

: Davidson to participate in such a carnival
“piel

_Whea ‘the fan calms down, and

facilities or buy more: books for the li-
brary with money needed to make David-
son a Division I school. That money
would make Davidson better able to ful-
fill. its chief duty: to” give: santos a.
superior education.

Although emotion and reason fail to

_agree on how big a sports school David-

son is, I do think thé half-way approach

-of making Davidson teams play at Divi-

sion I without Division I budgets is _
wrong and must stop immediately. Either
we go all out at Division I, or we don’t go

at all. Fueled by a slow deep breath, I
side with reason.

