8

Friday, November 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

-Pop Film O' the Future

Virgins Beware! Rocky Horror comes to Davidson

By SHANNON O’SHIELDS
Have you ever seen a movie whose plot was so outra-

geous and stupid, whose production was so lousy, whose ~

acting was soabominable that you really wanted to yell and
throw things at the screen? Well, if you have, then your

‘dreams have come true . . Rocky Horror Picture Show is
coming to Davidson.

Rocky Horror Picture Show is perhaps the most con-

temptible film ever produced by men. It is a miserable,
musical science fiction take-off on Frankenstein. Its spe-
cial effects rival those of Doctor Who. The film relates the

sexual exploits of an engaged couple, Brad Majors and

_but it will help get you started:

Janet Weiss, as they battle the demented Dr. Frank N.
Furter. It relies on some of the ridiculously trite scenes,
such as the protagonists’ car breaking down ina rainstorm
so they have to walk to the nearby castle to use the phone.
(Naturally, the proprietor of the castle isn’t amenable to the
idea of their leaving.) The plot simply doesn’t: work,
especially with the miserable cast that tries to portray it.

If all these things are true, then why is this film still
popular over ten years after it was first released?) Rocky
Horror has become the most popular of all cult films
because of its “audience participation.” The viewers
actually say lines, throw things, and act out scenes along
with the movie. In what other film could everyone inthe
theatre go to the front and dance “The Time Warp” or have
“elbow sex”? Although the film itself is atrocious, the
Rocky Horror experience itself is the greatest thing since
sliced bread. Because the real stars in Rocky Horror are not
the actors, but the audience.

For those who are hoping to see the movie, but are
unfamiliar with it, here are some thumbnail sketches of the
characters so that you can have an idea of what’s going on:

Frank: A sweet transvestite from Transsexual,

Transylvania

Janet: Slut

Brad: Asshole

Magenta: a domestic ©

Riff-Raff: (the name speaks for itself)
Columbia: a groupie

Dr. Scott: a scientist

‘Eddie: Just someone who comes for dinner
Rotky; the creation

Here is another list to help out the Rocky Horror “vir-
gins” (those who haven’t seen the film). It tells you what
props to bring and what to do with them, so that you can get
in onthe action. This is by no means a comprehensive list,

rice -- throw it in the opening wedding scene

water guns -- squirt during the rain scene

newspapers -- hold over your head during the rain scene

lighters -- light during the song, “There’s a Light,” (be
sure to turn off your lighters when the song says “dark-
ness’’)

noisemakers -- use during the convention party at the
castle

rubber gloves -- snap during Frank’s “creation” speech

party hats -- wear them during the dinner scene (while
the cast sings “Happy Birthday” to Rocky)

teddy bears -- hold during the song, “Eddie”

toast -- throw when Frank proposes “a toast”

toilet paper -- throw when Doctor Scott rolls in

DON’T bring foul, sticky foods or other nasties that can
hurt someone or damage their clothes.

For all the “virgins” that are considering seeing the film:
BEFOREWARNED! This film has very strong (although
not explicit) sexual content, and the audience uses very
strong language. Rocky Horror isn’t for everyone!

And for all the Rocky aficionados, please remember the

basic rules of RHPS etiquette. Please don’t be obnoxious

if someone’s lines are different from yours, or if their
costume is different. Don’t harass a single group of people

a different
set of jaws.

water. Also remember not to wear out jokes just because
they’re good. For example, don’t shout “asshole” every
time that Brad appears on the screen. It gets old after a
while.

On November 13th and 14th, Rocky Horror Picture

_ Show will play in Love Auditorium, just in time to help us

release our exam-time frustrations. An expert Rocky Hor-
ror “castmember” will be flying in from Washington, D.C.
to help us with our production and to act as the chief of the
“virgin patrol.” Be there, so we can.all do the Time Warp.
. . again!

Charlotte Flix

by pounding them with rice or by drenching them with

Prince of Darkness: ‘“Post-Natal Fecal Matter”

By BRUCE PLOURDE
“T laughed.”
“Leried.-
“T gagged on my popcorn.”
“Let’s go get doughnuts.”

These are just some of the more favorable
comments made by people who had just
suffered almost two hours of “Prince of
Darkness,” the latest brainchild of John
Carpenter that turned out more like an
abortion.

Of coutse, it’s not entirely his fault. He
can pass on some of the blame for this
premature embryo of a movie to the writer.

‘ But the poor directing, unbelievably simple
special effects, and incessant music that
sounds like a prenatal heartbeat indict Mr.
Carpenter, who brought us that other senti-
mental cinema classic, “Starman.”

A team of scientists scramble to an urban

' church in California to take measurements
ona see
expecting an unknown but sure-to-be-
spooky phenomenon to take place. This
large square room, lit by a thousand
candles, its walls covered by crosses, was
the place of worship for the “Brotherhood
of Sleep.” Two objects tie in the room, a
sacred text written in Latin, Greek and
numerals; and a large glass vat filled with
some. fluorescent green, spinning sub-
stance. Scientists of all types - decipherers,

- radiologists, seismologists - interpret their
data and offer it to the man who has organ-
ized the whole operation (Victor Wong).
He forces them to suppress what they know,
so that nobody will piece together the
‘impending doom to come to the church, a
doom that all mankind’ s technology will
not suppress.

The vat of Gatorade in the cellar is sup-
posed to be, of course, some manifestation
of the devil, encapsulated by the Brother-

“hood of Sleep in the early days of Christ and

ious chamber in the basement, .

now ready to be let out. The attempted
horror comes from the events which occur
when the stuff begins to leak out, and
people, once very sociable on the whole,
become rather reticent and nasty. In effect,
Carpenter ha: endeavored to create a m1s-
terpiece horror movie much in the same
style of “The Exorcist.” More often than
not he evokes laughterrather than shrieks of
horror. Creation, however, does not in-
dulge duplication. The Catholic Church,
streams of green slime squirting from
people’s mouths, a twisting head, and
demonic possession all sound vaguely
familiar.

One character shines through all this
post-natal fecal matter. The priest of the
church (Donald Pleasence) brings out the
true horror of the situation. He breathes the
omen that he forecasts for the future in a
raspy, horrifying voice. In his expressions
he reveals awful sentiments underlying
them. Whereas the other characters run out
their lines like performers in a grammar-
school play, he delivers every word of his
role with conviction. He instills more
anxiety in the audience than all the other
characters combined.

But in general, a movie targeted toward
the Halloween crowd has surprisingly little
to even mildly scare your date into moving
closer to you. In a few scenes, where the
camera has a limited field of vision and an
actor takes up most of that, something will
jump out right behind the actor suddenly
and may startle one. Usually such a pan on
the scene sets off a red light to indicate that
something will jump out right behind the
actor. But one scene later in the film
involving one of the possessed characters
may with all haste renounce his agnostic
ways and call upon his Savior’s name with
urgency. The she-deévil turns to look with
calm, laughing evil at her prey, trapped in
a closet. There’s no other way to describe

that scene but by heralding it a “spine-

tingler.” And of course, if you have a fear
of insects this film might bother you. If

you’ ve spent any time in the college dorms,

however, you’ve probably seen more
frightening scenes involving red ants than
the film covers, and should therefore be
well qualified to withstand the gruelling
mental strain evoked by these scenes. ~
At the stupid conclusion of the movie I
did not leave with apprehensions of being

attacked by possessed people in my sleep. I

left with several questions which I felt the
movie had not satisfactorily answered. For
example, what was that green stuff in the
cellar?

A. Kool-Aid.

B. Green jello in a slow blender.

C. A spyro-gyra sample in a tumble dryer.

‘D. A festive Chinese lantern.

E, None of the above.

And what was that albino with the black
hair (who looks remarkably like the
lead singer for the Cars) doing waiting
outside the church with his derelict
buddies?

A, Waiting for mass to begin.
B. Hoping to get a glimpse of the Pope on
his way through town.
C. Looking for a homecoming date.
D. Getting some sun.
E. Allof the above. -

Finally, why did the black scientist keep
laughing after he became possessed?
A. The demon inside him was once a stand-
up comic.
B. He had just finished reading the
McLads’ column.
C. He kept thinking of Michael Jackson’s
new face lift.
D. Who cares.
If you have the answers to these questions,
please submit them to the McLads.
They will be happy to take all your replies.

HEDONISTIC PLEASURE
SEEKER METER:

Car chase scenes - 0

Dead bodies -11
Bare hooters -0.
HPSM Rating - 11

T&R Tanning Salon
Welcome Back Students
Back to School Special

6 Visits for $19.95
Students Only

Visits must be used within.
one month of purchase date.

‘
