Friday, February 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

jSports Page-

——~11

Wildcat fans and teams need J ohnston

By EDWIN PAGE

Some of the best memories that I have
of Davidson are of the many nights that I
have spent screaming myself hoarse in
Johnston Gym during the past four bas-
ketball seasons. The intimacy that the
gym provides allows our small but vocal
crowds to really make a big difference in
the outcome of the games played there.

For an example, look at last year’s
Cats who were 12-0 in Johnston and 2-8
‘on the road during the regular season.
While the won-lost record relies primar-
ily on the talent of the team, I think it
would be foolish to say that the fans have
no power to sway the outcome of games.
Whether it is 10,000 coal miners or 2500
‘tude pigs in the stands, they have an ef-
fect.

At the beginning of the 1988-89 sea-

ingly about the multiple benefits this will
basketball program, I havea
few reservations. I strongly believe that
6000 seats is just too many for most of
Davidson’s games. Every single David-
son student could bring his or her mother,
father, and favorite sibling to the game
and there would still be 600 seats unused.

With an average home attendance of
under 1900 per game at Johnston Gym
this season the noise level has been
deafening. With 1900 spectators present,
a 6000 seat arena will closely resemble a

tomb.

Western Carolina moved this season

from 3400 seat Reid Gymnasium to a
new 8000 seat facility so I called Steve
White at the WCU Sports Information of-
fice to see what the added space has done

_ for their program. In thirty years in Reid,

son, the Cats will move into the new
6,000 seat basketball arena and wave
goodbye forever to Johnston Gym. While
Coach Hussey and Kit Morris talk glow-

Bleacher Seat

the Catamounts won an amazing 81 per-
cent of their games. Last year the team
went 10-4 there. The 86-87 Catamounts,
who White described as “basically the

same team,” are thus far 3-9 in their new
ome.

In addition, attendance is down from
last year’s level despite a crowd of 8,114
to see Western play N.C. State to open
the season. Since that game, Western has
drawn an average of only about 2200 per

game compared to 2800 at Reid last sea-

son.

I asked White about the effects of the
new facility. “There was a trememdous
advantage playing in the old facility.
When you get crowds of 8000 here it’s a
nice situation, but we’ve had some
crowds of 1700 and you sort of lose any
home court advantage. It really soaks up
the noise.” .

Coach Hussey is quoted in the basket-
ball program as saying that the new arena
will have as one of its advantages “im-

proved seating.” I have trouble seeing _

pected to be a recruiting aid. It may, how-
ning team and rabid fans a are also a good
recruiting aid. Johnston Gym may lack
aesthetic value, but it helps in other |’
areas.

Although I do not believe we should
play all of our games in the new arena, |
realize that it will carry many benefits in-
cluding more gym space for students and]
the ability to play big games at Davidson
instead of Charlotte. We should not,
however, let our pride in our new facility].
override our good sense. The crowds that
fail to fill Johnston to capacity for most
games will not magically expand to fill
the 3500 newly created seats. In the for-
seeable future, Davidson will not need
more than 2500 seats more than one or
two times a year. I hope we will have the

how the seating could improve. Every
seat in Johnston Gym is practically on top
of the court, but with 6000 seats this will

hot be possible. The new arena is also ex-

foresight to recognize this and not aban-
don Johnston just because something big-
ger is available. Bigger is not always bet-
ter. Ask Western Carolina.

Fools transcend definition of a basketball team

By MIKE ADAMS

The arenas of athletic endeavor are
occasionally graced by moments of trans-
cendence. On rare days, an athlete or a
team will transcend mere sport, will go
beyond the bonds of humanity itself, and
become emblem, symbol, type.

When Michael Jordan scored 63
points against the Boston Celtics in the
NBA playoffs, he surpassed the game.
The other nine men on the court became
not fellow players, but merely a backdrop
for a basketball archetype. Larry Bird —
no stranger to moments of transcendence
— said he had just watched “God dis-
guised as Michael Jordan.”

Davidson was blessed this winter by
the presence of such a transcendent team.
“Sut Luvingood’s Natural Born Durn
Fools,” as they style themselves, sprang
unannounced from the lowly reaches of
IMAC basketball B-league and quickly
established themselves as a force to be re-

| ckoned with as they challenged the
boundaries not only of their sport, but the
boundaries. of art and poetry and lan-
guage as well.

These frontiersman of basketball,
these traversers of the Cumberland Gap
of sport, are Torrey Hyatt, Dave Van
Pelt, Rich Link, Perry Mathewes, John
Reynolds, Tim Nielsen and Rob Nor-
man. I name them here, but their truest

Continued from page 10

beings stem from their identification with
their archetypical unit. They are like the
Magnificent Seven, the Dirty Dozen, the
Twelve Disciples — more real in the con-
text of their group.

The Fools understand the essence of
sport. Their search is for grace, beauty,
rhythm — the interplay of the human
form with the geometric confines of the
basketball court. The move beyond mere
competition to a much broader and
deeper understanding of their milieu. As
a matter of fact, according to the
hidebound, timeworn method of measur-
ing basketball success — tallying the
score — they have lost every game.

They seek balance. The Fools under-
stand the principles of death and rebirth,
force and resistence, motion and stasis
that give structure to our world. They
contribute what they have to the service
of this principle, making sure that every-
one scores in every game. Sometimes
this leads to poor shooting percentages,
but the Fools do not care because 'they
know that such is part of the natural order
of the universe. After all, does it not take
the death of millions of sperm to enable
one to fertilize an egg.

The Shakespearian influences on this
team are amazing. The theme of appear-
ance versus reality, so often present in the
works of the Immortal Bard, never leaves

34-22, before the outside shooting
of Rucker started chipping into
lead.

-With 13 minutes left in the
game Tanner jammed in a re-
bound that finally awakened the
crowd. When he converted the
three-point play Davidson .was
down 41-38.

With 10:55 left in the game a
Tanner jump shot tied the score at
44-44, but UTC responded by
scoring six straight points to re-

gain control of the game.

. Keener hit a three-pointer to
cut the lead to four, 56-52, but
hopes. of a victory faded as the
Cats started having difficulty find-
ing the basket down the stretch.
Tanner lead the team in re-

bounding with nine boards and
nine points. Heineman and Himes
scored 10 and 13 points respec-
tively. Rucker, who did not hit a
field goal in the first half, lead the
team with 16.

The losses put Davidson in
third place bebind Marshall! and
UTC and seriously dimmed any
hope of winning the regular sea-
son championship.

Davidson’s next game is home
against Florida International to-
morrow night. The Cats host Fur-
man on Feb. 12 then travel to Ap-
palachian State on Feb. 14 and
East Tennessee State on Feb. 16.
Davidson wraps up the season
with home_games against Mar-
shall Feb. 21 and V.M.I. Feb. 23..

the minds of the Fools. A prime example
of this theme in action on the basketball
court is a maneuver know by Hyatt as the.
Optical Dunk. On this play, a Fool
streaks down the court alone and slams
the ball forcefully against the backboard,
giving the momentary impression that he
has dunked it. The appearance transcends
the reality. The move has all the weight
and import of the actual dunk without the
material baggage of scoring points.

Hyatt also challenges the spectator’s
belief system — his ability to distinguish
appearance from reality — in his choice
of clothing. His “Air Hyatt” wardrobe
consists of long khaki pants rolled to mid-
calf, a flannel shirt and deck shoes with-
out socks. His iconoclastic dress chal-
lenges accepted ideas about how a bas-
ketball player should look.

Reynolds has a dream. He dreams of
the perfect basketball shot. So great is his
depth of understanding that he realizes
the perfect shot must involve the absolute
minimum amount of participation on the
part of the shooter. He must shoot
blindly, he must in no way let his indi-
viduality interfere with the shot, for in the
end it is the ball that must score and not
himself. In attempting the perfect shot,
Reynolds stands with his back to the bas-
ket and arches the ball backwards over
his head without looking. So far, he has

Meru rail
ANESOURERS

fallen short in his attempts, but the daring.
and courage and insight of the attempt it-
self transcends the common herd. —

The Fools play games not only with
sport, but with language as well. Their
actions on the court challenge the way
word-symbols operate, the way sound re-
lates to meaning. On one particularly
moving occasion, a Fool called out the
defensive scheme “full court press.” Van
Pelt, pierced by insight’s arrow, im-
mediately flung himself down and
pushed as hard as he could on the floor.
This action not only questioned the
meaning of the sport’s vocabulary, but
challenged the validity of any and all
word statements we might make.

What the Fools finally do is transcend
sport much as poetry transcends lan-
guage. Just as good poetry creates new
meaning and insights out of the juxtapos- : |
ition or comparison of old images, the
Fools change the way we think about
sports, the arts and life itself by the way
they play the game. Their sport-art-lan-
guage-life synthesis is new and some-
times shocking, but it is wholly unforget-
able. Unfortunately, the season is over
for the Fools. All we can do is thank them
for the lessons they taught us, the way
they moved us and the new heights to
which they challenge us to climb.

Friday evening entertainment

Healthy Snacks and Sandwiches!

‘Imported BEER and WINE
Downtown Davidson
