Sports

Cats’ baseball split wins and losses here and away

By MATT NEWSOM

The Wildcat baseball team got
a taste of life on the road this past
week as they traveled to Green-
- ville, SC, to play Furman and
Raleigh to play NC State. Of the
five games played last week, only
Sunday’s 7-1 victory over
Youngstown State was on David-

son's home field. ye
Last Friday the Cats invaded

Furman with thoughts of increas- .

ing their perfect 3-0 conference

record by sweeping the Paladins.

The weekend got off to a good
start as senior Steve Condon, a
draft choice of the Milwaukee
Brewers in the Major League draft
last summer, increased his stock
in this year’s draft as he raised his
record to 4-0 by winning the first
game of the doubleheader 12-3.
The Wildcats scored three runs in
the first inning on back-to-back

homers by Alan Lewis and Dave
Turgeon and never looked back.
Turgeon homered again in the
fifth inning, and second baseman

_ Peter Hughes added a two-run

blast in the seventh.

In game two, Billy Waitsman
scattered six hits and gave up only
two runs as the the Cats lost a
heartbreaker 2-1. The loss was
quite uncharacteristic of this
year’s team which is averaging
just over seven runs a game. Billy
Masse led off the game with a solo
homerun for the Wildcats’ only
score.

Davidson’s bats returned to

action for Saturday’s game as the -
_Cats pounded out eleven hits and

were rewarded with eight runs.
However, the offensive attack of
the Wildcats was not ehough to
overcome Furman’s fifteen hit,
eleven run effort. Masse went
three for five and scored four runs.

Dave DePaul also had three hits
and added four runs batted in.
Turgeon continued to hit the long
ball as he hit his third home run of
the weekend.

A beautiful Sunday afternoon
saw the Wildcats returning to the
friendly confines of their home
field as they played host to the
Youngstown State Penguins. (Just
how. many penguins are there in
the state of Ohio, anyway?!?)
Freshman Greg Wilcox turned in
the best pitching performance of
his young career by spinning a
four-hitter while striking out six
Penguin batters. After allowing
four men to reach base in the first
inning, Wilcox promptly shut the
door on the visitors from Ohio by
retiring the next fifteen batters in a
row while evening his record at 2-
2. He barely missed notching his
first career shutout by allowing

Davidson track performs well

By BOB CORNISH

Track Coach Gary Andrew

‘has been smiling quite a bit lately...

If last week's performances at
North Carolina State’s Wolfpack
Invitational are any indication,
that smile may soon become a fix-
ture.
‘ Although there were no team
. Scores recorded for all com-
petitors, the Wildcats performed
admirably against several key ri-
vals. The women’s performances
were highlighted by freshman
Kathy MacDonald and Chelley
‘Alexander. MacDonald matched
the Davidson high jump record at
4°10". Chelley Alexander clocked
a 5:20.7 in the 1500 meter run.

of her teammates in the shot-put
and discus. |

Senior Greg Foreman’s 4:01
1500 meter run was undoubtedly
the Davidson men’s performance
of the day. Running nearly the
same pace throughout the race,
Foreman is a threat to break
school records in the 1500, mile,
and just about anything else he
runs this season: His efforts will
play a major role in the team’s
success this year. as
_ Senior captain Emil Cekada
and junior John Lantis turned in
strong performances in the 800
meter run. They, along with
freshman Jay “Refrigerator”
Clugston and Foreman are
threatening to break the school’s 4

mance in the 3000 meter run, and
appears ready for the task.
A pleasant surprise at the

Wolfpack Invitational was junior ~

David Maynard’s performance in
the 1500 meter run. If his efforts
last weekend are any indication,
the school’s 4 x 1.mile record may
also be ready to fall.“ Maynard
could add needed depth to the’
Davidson attack.

Davidson runs against Lyn-
chburg, J.C. Smith, Barber-
Scotia, Livingstone, and Claflin
next Saturday at 10 a.m. The fol-
lowing Friday and Saturday, the
28th Annual Davidson Relays will
be held. There will be over thirty
men’s and twenty women’s teams
competing. The student body is
welcome to attend both events. .

Sophomore Maureen Harris x 800 meter relay record.
added to the strong performances Clugston turned ina strong perfor-
SPORTS SHORTS

BY HAP BRYANT

Men’s Tennis. After a successful weekend, the Wildcat tennis team resumes
play Thursday against Ohio University. On Friday, the team faces the “David-

one irrelevant run in the top of the
eighth inning. Meanwhile, David-
son batters —_ reached
Youngstown State pitchers for
seven runs on eight hits. Masse
was three for three with three runs
scored. DePaul broke open a 2-0
game in the fifth inning by ripping
his sixth home run of the season, a
three run shot over the right field
fence.

The Wildcats hit the road once
again on Wednesday, losing a
tough game to ACC-foe NC State. :
Coach George Greer decidedyto
give his top three pitchers time on
the mound in preparation for this
weekend’s conference series.
Dave Fitzgerald started for. the
Cats and gave up two runs in three
ifinings before giving way to Billy
Waitsman.
three innings as well while allow- _
ing no runs on just three hits. This 7
performance dropped his earned

the:

Waitsman pitched -

. Tun average to a very respectable
1.48. Steve Condon relieved

Waitsman in the seventh and gave
up three runs en route to a 5-3

_ Wolfpack victory.

. Davidson was to have played
Wake Forest yesterday, weather
permitting, before traveling to
Asheville this weekend to play
traditional rival and defending
Southern Conference champion,
Western Carolina. The Wildcats
will then start a three-game
homestand on Tuesday when they
play host to Lenoir-Rhyne at 2
pm, cross-county rival UNCC at 3
pm on Wednesday, and traditional
ACC-powerhouse UNC at 2 pm in
a game that is being made up from >
a previous rainout. Make your
plans to be in attendance next
week as the Cats ‘continue that
long trek on the road to Omaha,
Nebraska, and the College World
Series.

} nine.

By BRUCE SARKISIAN

The Wildcats’ golf team,
coming off two wins last Thurs-
day, looks poised to perform well
in conference play. Captain Craig
Carlock is optimisti¢ about the
teams prospects, “It’s early in the
season and the scores are coming
down.” In last week’s win, the
Cats four top scores for eighteen
holes totaled "326, which was
enough to beat Belmont Abbey
and Lenoir Rhyne by 22 and 29,
respectively. Davidson’s. two
medalists, Gates Grainger and
Craig Carlock fired 77 and 81 re-
spectively on the difficult Hickory
course, with Carlock shooting a
very impressive 37 on the back

In another tournament. last

weekend at Elon College in Bur-

Golf team gets ahead

Jington, the team placed fifteenth

time this season. As a result, the

of twenty three teams, an im-
provement from last season, when
the Cats’ placed near the bottom
of the pack in many tournaments.
In addition to Grainger, who sho
75 and 79, and Carlock, freshme
Tom Goodrum and Casey Awe,
sophomores Scott Prince and Sea’
O’Neil, and seniors Tyler Lon
and Steve Bradley have all mad
significant contributions to th
team this season. Carlock and
coach Tim Tallent have instituted
mandatory practices for the first

teams scores have shown im-
provement. Right now, the team
is gearing up for its next match
which will be April 2 and 3 at
Winthrop College, and the confer-
ence tournament April 21 and 22.

N. C. State.

Last Friday, the Cat netters defeated Wooster College 8-1. On Saturday,
they-downed Colgate 7-2 in Atlanta. Top performers for the Cats in singles are
junior Bill Young, who sports an impressive 10-2 record, the no. 2 doubles team
of Trip Caldwell and Jim Thompson(7-3), and the no. 3 doubles team of Michael
Meyer and Rick Hodge(8-2). The team’s overall record is above .500. at 7-5.

Soccer. Davids6n’s~soccer team has resumed practice after the winter

matches every two weeks, practicing three or four times in between. Coach

probably will cut four players fron the current squad. : :
', This weekend the team will play two matches, one at Furman and the other in

journey, though not without reservation: “It should be a good weekend. I don’t
know if we’ll be strong enough without (Jim) Kelly and (Michael) Spear.” Re-
gardless of the outcome, the trip should provide some experience and develop a
new camaraderie for the 1987 squad.

The Davidsonian Wildcat Athlete of the Week.

This week’s Bryant-Wilks Wildcat of the Week is junior tennis player Bill
Young. Young currently owns a 10-2 record in singles, playing at the no. 2 seed.
According to Coach Jeff Frank, his stature is increased by his move from no, 3
seed last year. He has made the transition from the lower seed and in the process
has defeated the no. 2 player from Duke. Congratulations, Bill, and continued
success.

Send your nominations for the Athlete of the Week to: Athlete of the Week:
c/o Sports EDitors: The Davidsonian; P.O. BOx 219.

son of the North,” Harvard University and on Saturday travels to Raleigh to face

layoff. According to Coach Charlie Slagle, the team is currently playing

Slagle anticipates having to make roster changes in two-to three-weeks, and-he—

Atlanta against the Data Graphics team. Coach Slagle anticipates a promising .

Womens tennis competes

By HAP BRYANT AND WHIT WILKS

The Women’s tennis team has begun
their 1987 season positively, having amas-
sed a record of 5 wins against 3 defeats.
Thus far, the Cats’ first season in Division I

has progressed well.
On Monday; the team defeated both

~ Kalamazoo and Ohio University, running

their record to - 5-2. Unfortunately, the
Southern Conference’s no. | team and de-
fending champions, Furman, gave the Cats
a rude awakening on Wednesday, handing
them a 7-2 loss. Even though the team fell,
they learned a lot in the match against Fur-
man, according to Coach Brown. She inti-
mated that the team-has realized that they
can play with Furman. Furman’s experi-
ence, she said, was a deciding factor in the
match. The team now sees the task in front

of them, and they-must make the adjust--

ments,
Thus far, no one player, other than the

- 4th seed Debbie Podolin, has excelled in

singles. Currently, her record is 6 wins and

2 losses. The lineup consists of junior Amy
McNelis at 1 and sophomore Marion Stone
at 2. The 3rd and 4th seeds are freshman
Virginia Hall and Podolin. Sophomores
Alice Stubbs and Jane Price round out the
rotation as the 5th and 6th seeds. In the cru-
cial doubles, McNelis and Hall play the top
slot, Stone and Stubbs the second, and
Podolin and sophomore Martha Johnson
play third.

According to Coach Brown, the Cats |
have a solid base in singles. Now they must
work on their doubles play. She feels that
against Furman and UTC, doubles could
turn the tide. A pressing test faces the team
on April 5th against the conference’s no. 2
team, UTC. She hopes to have the kinks
worked out by the time of the Southern

Conference tournament, April 18-20. At

the tournament, she hopes to win 4 singles
matches and 2 doubles matches. She hopes
this will fulfill the dream of “Chasing the
Championship.”
