Opinions

The Davidsonian
Friday, April 24, 1987

13

Homelessness and mental illness: causes and a cure -

\

Steve Baggarly

As Tim Brown points out in his March 30 opinions arti-
cle, a common assumption concerning the ever increasing
number of homeless people in our cities is that many are
there because of the deinstitutionalization of psychiatric in-
stitutions. While this is often the case, I think that we need
to ask which comes first — mental illness or homeless-
ness? To assume that mental illness is a primary cause of
homelessness adds to the list of prejudices and negative im-
ages that most Americans have towards this segment of our
population. .

Usually the reasons one is on the street to begin with are
enough to psychologically devastate anyone: loss of a job,
loss of family, eviction, fire, or displacement because of
gentrification (improving housing in slum areas, making it
too expensive for the poorer population to continue living
there), lack of low income housing, or ineligibility for wel-
fare or other programs (one criteria for welfare benefits is
that an individual have an address). Often these or other
tragedies occur one after the other, and we end up having as
many causes for homelessness as there are people on the
street. This sudden and total change in lifestyle, every day
brings new pressures to acquire food, warmth, -shelter,
clothing, and protection from violence, not to mention the
need for kind human contact. For many this hand-to-mouth
existence on the downtown streets of a large city can result
in deterioration of mental faculties.

Homelessness itself is symptomatic of a deeper mad-
ness in our society, a madness that allows between 250,000
and 3 million Americans to be living on the street right
now. There is no assurance that these people will find help

‘in our society because the prevailing myth of the “Ameri-
can dream” dictates that if one is willing to work hard
enough, one can get comfortably by. Viewed as failures in
the race for financial security and status symbols, people on
the street are shunned by the rest of society. They are
labeled unaesthetic, thieves, mentally ill, and lazy by many
who never take the time to know them as human beings.
They are commonly ignored.

For the person on the street, the social rejection of being
considered a freeloader or inferior person because he or she
has failed to attain economic well-being, is a constant
stress. To live in a cardboard box at the foot of a shiny new
skyscraper or on a park bench in front of a cathedral is a
constant reminder that some people are regarded as more
important and have access to such places, while one’s pre-

sence in such a place is often.cause for discomfort, even
abuse. » .

Having no socially respected access to sustenance in
the midst of the most affluent society in the world works to
destroy people. One experiences it while spending months
leaning against, or huddling in the doorways of other
people’s buildings. One is confronted daily with billboards
of wealthy white people enjoying their material prosperity,
and seeing it first hand while staying in the nicest down-
town section in hopes of it being safer. Even preventive
health care is rarely afforded to the person on the street.
Often simple injuries are refused treatment, having to
evolve into life threatening situations before a hospital will
admit indigents to a $500 a day hospital room. It is not only

deinstitutionalization, but our society’s built-in systems of |

dehumanizing the poor that contribute to mental illness on
the street.

If a homeless person happens to be female, life on the
street is even more pressurized. I spent five months living
in an emergency shelter in the slums of north Philadelphia,
during which I very rarely met a woman who had lived.on
the street for an extended amount of time that didn't seem to
have some psychological problem. Their vulnerability is so
complete, mentally ill women on the street being easy
targets fot rape. I can remember a woman telling me how
she had been raped twice the night before, but was too con-

. fused to say much else. There exists no justice for this

woman and countless others like her. Mentally il! homeless
people don’t take those who abuse them to court.

In his article, Tim cites individual examples of only the
most violent end of the spectrum of mentally ill people on
the street. Actually, he does not even qualify whether the
people he uses in his examples were indeed homeless, stat-
ing only that they were considered mentally ill. I hope that
such stories do not reinforce thé myths and fears surround-
ing homeless and mentally ill people. Movies, books, tele-
vision, and years of being told not to walk in “that part of
town” or to go near “those people” have created mental im-
ages in us that depict the homeless as aggressive, danger-
ous people. As long as these images keep us from trying to
care, we live in a false reality. ‘

In Philadelphia I came to see that homeless people with

ness to the abuse he received from others. He is an artist.
After eating a dinner at the soup kitchen he likes to sit and
make wonderful pen sketches on napkins or scraps of
paper. His pride and joy is a canoe he carved from valsa
wood.

Another friend, Jose, is troubled when others call him
loco because a doctor diagnosed him as schizophrenic. Ile
just wants to go back to Puerto Rico. Darry!, whose brother
was gunned down by police a few years ago in front of the
kitchen, often talks to himseff. He knows karate, and some-
times uses it for protection, but is always ready with a smile ©
or a song in the morning as he exercises. Another fre-
quenter of the kitchen, The King of Denmark, is a sna, »y
dresser and can converse.on everything from Wall Stree: to
pencils, Danish food to the umbrella he carries rain or
shine. I feel that I do my friends an injustice by using th-m
as my examples, but I think it is important to know tiat
these usually invisible people have names and have stories,
often aching to be told.

As Tim points out, deinstitutionalization is one cause of
homelessness .in this country. Community-based halfway
houses were to be the means of reintegrating the menially

ill into society. Few have been created however, and
thousands of mentally iil people are left to roam the streets.
At the same time, the street wears down the sanity of
healthy people who end up there for other reasons, as they
internalize constant human and societal rejection while
struggling to live from day to day.- What can be done? How
can we get to the very root of the problem?

A myriad of opinions have been voiced. Some advocate
a social welfare state such as Denmark’s, where no one has
to worry about security from the cradle to the grave. Others
hold that capitalist investment in a laissez-faire system
would create jobs for all who can work, and yield enough
private charity for those who can not. Countless other sug-
gestions fall between these extremes.

TI have a suggestion that may appeal to both “conserva-
tives” and “liberals” alike. People who have homes could
invite people without homes to live with them. Think of
how many spare bedrooms and sofas, even the amount of
floor space, that go unused. For the conservative, this
would greatly reduce homelessness solely through the
workings of the private sector. For the liberal, it offers the

“psychological problems” are just as human as people who__ homeless a real home rather than impersonal, in-

have not been so labeled. One of my friends, Ray, a hulk-
ing, bearded man, with face and hands well worn from
years on the street, happens to be labeled with a “mental ill-
ness’. His thoughts do not logically follow each other, and
despite his obvious strength, he is one of the most gentle
people I have ever met. I never saw him react with mean-

stitutionalized charity.

Yes, this is a sirnplistic solution with some rough
edges. What I hope to convey is that the answer to the prob-
lem of the homeless and mentally ill goes beyond mere de-
legation of responsibility to the government or private
charities, and into what we can do ourselves.

Are students being deceived? Is the faculty confused?

Michael Jarmon & Paul Kosmas

_ Whether you are aware of it or not, the faculty is cur-
rently making a decision whether Davidson students, pre-
sent and future, will study under a semester or term system.
The foremost concern of this decision should be the educa-
tion of Davidson students. Facilitating faculty or adminis-
trative interests should not be of issue. Education should
not suffer at the benefit of the faculty or administration.
Students need to be aware of this decision process. Further-
more, they should have an informed opinion, so that they
can make the faculty aware of their convictions. The Edu-
cational Policy Committee, chaired by Dean Robert Wil-
liams, has produced a report on the semester package pro-
posal. °

Here we present the issue: the effectiveness of the cur-
rent system is under question, proposals have been made
for (1) a semester system, and (2) a modified term system,
both with curricular changes.

Under the proposed semster system students would
have two fifteen week terms. Normal course load would be
four classes per term, totaling thirty-two courses over four
years for normal graduation progress. Classes would meet
every other day, with a total classroom time of three hours
per week. This allows for a so-called percolation time of
material. The workload of any particular course remains
essentially the same as under the present system. The work-
load is however subject to the discretion of individual pro-

fessors. Advocates of the semester system forward that stu- .

dents would have 25% more courses, yet 50% more time.
Registration and exam periods. would take place twice
yearly. The proposed semester system package calls for
core curriculum (area requirements) changes, lowering the
total number of core classes. Also, the core classes would
be more specific (i.e. a mandatory math course, and sci-
ence/laboratory course). Furthermore, proponents of the
semester package claim that independent study would be
encouraged in the junior and senior years. They hold that
“undergraduate education should provide a progression
from a general education core curriculum defined by the
faculty to a growing autonomy and independence on the
part of the student.” They also claim that semesters al-
leviate the “exhaustion” or “burn-out” factor of the present
system by having classes which meet every-other day, and
fewer registration and exam periods. Students would only
“gear up” twice a year instead of three times.

Before moving on note the misconceptions in these ar-
guments. As to there being 25% more courses and 50%
more time per term, this is not a result of the semester
move. “More time” would be a result of diminished total
course load required for graduation. The loss of four
courses provides more time, not semesters. The exhaustion
factor also relies mainly on the lightened course load.
Neither are the area requirement changes, or the “increased
independent study” possibilities related to the semester sys-
tem. These supposed advantages are instead contingent

upon the curricular alterations.

Most of the advantages of a semester system can be

achieved as well within a term system. Under the present
system, there are three ten week terms, with students taking
three courses per term. Normal progress is nine courses per
year. and 36 courses total for graduation. Classes meet ev-
eryday. Registration and exams are three times per year.
Area requirements are less defined than the proposed
semester package, and number more. But in both,the term
system and semester system the ratio of core classes to.
major study to elective courses remains consistant, approx-
imately one-third each. Independent study is not propo-
gated. High bum-out is a factor. Benefits of the present sys-
tem are as follows; flexiblity in terms of course sequencing
and major declaration, and less divergent, more focused at-
tention on fewer courses.

Examine now how a term system can be modified to
maximize benefits of both systems. It is possible to have
within the term system blocked class time,. decreased
course load, and a modified core curriculum, and retain the
benefits of flexibility. Blocked classes and daily classes
can be assimilated into the term system. The chart
describes how. this is accomplished.

This combination allows for a new flexibility, enabling
professors to structure classes according to their needs. De-
creased course load benefits the term system in many ways..
A student taking eight courses per year. on average, can
work with far more possibilities in terms of scheduling,
which facilitates an individual’s needs. For example, a stu-
dent can structure their terms according to difficulty, the
need to “take a breather,” easier adaption to study abroad,

—————————————Continued to page 16

