Opinions

v

Se,

Melissa McLemore

You know what I mean . . . a beautiful, young blond
virgin walking down the street whois found three days later
behind a building murdered and very brutally raped. Three
black men are being held in conjunction with the incident.
That's what we like to hear, that’s what sells newspapers. It
is a safe, distant, and non-threatening view of such a com-
mon occurrence. It’s time to wake up, it’s a dream. Rape
can occur anywhere, at anytime, to anyone. It can happen
to you or your best friend. Not only can rape happen in an
alley, it can happen at parties, at school, at home and with
the “All American Boy.” Strager rape is only a very limited
form of rape. Actually in about 70 percent of the reported
rapes (90 percent on college campuses) the victim knew the
attacker, 50 percent of those rapes occurred in the victim's
home.

This article is not meant to scare you, simply to inform
you. I do not wish for every female on campus to be hiding
in a locked room every night after dinner in a state of hys-

‘_terical paranoia. | simply wish to encourage everyone
(women and men).to be aware of the problem and to be
aware of what is going-on around them.

No, Davidson has not had a sudden outbreak of sexual
assaults and I will not attempt to offer statistics for our cam-
pus. However, Davidson like all college campuses pro-
vides a conductive atmosphere for rape to occur. First,
Davidson isa relatively close environment so everyone
knows each other by sight and becomes familiar with living
and social patterns. College also puts increased stress on
students through academic and social pressures. When

you're failing two course. have two tests in the next week _

and your professor makes it clear that you are not his or her
favorite student, it is reflex to want to be in control of some-
thing. This added to some strong misconceptions about
human sexuality can lead to the most common form of
rape, acquaintance rape. Acquaintance rape is not only
more common than stranger rape it is more psychologically
damaging. The victim's entire system of trust has been vio-
lated. It is more difficult for the victim not to feel the bur-
den of guilt when it was someone she or he knew. And we
as a society and as a peer group tend not to support the vic-
tim and we tend to defend the attacker. In essence we tell
the victim it must have been their fault. We must realize
that no one deserves to be hurt like this regardless of how
they act at parties, what they wear or how much they drink.
The statements most common to this campus are that
we're safe because there aren’t any strange men jumping

out from the bushes; or we have “The Honor Code” or that

we're too small to have such problems. In a small way,
these statements are correct, our campus is relatively safe at
night. However, this false security can mask and even in-
tensify the problem. By not using the same.common sense
we use at home we make it very easy for acquaintance rape
to occur. We as students must take responsibility for our
safety. It is important to be aware of your surroundings and
the situations in which we are.

I wish I could offer easy solutions to the problem of sex-_
ual assault, but there are none. However there are ways to
lessen the problem and the impact of the crisis. First to les-
sen the incidence of acquaintance rape we have to start talk-
ing to each other. We have to learn how to communicate
about our sexuality and start attacking myths such as when
a woman says no she really means yes. We have to learn to
say no-and mean it and to respect it when someone else says
no. The major way to stop acquaintance rape is to be aware
that it happens and how it happens and the dynamics in-

. -. dgnorance concerning rape hurts campus.

volved in it happening. The way to do this is to educate
yourself. You can do this by attending discussions spon-
sored by the DC Rape Crisis, the Dean’s Office, or
Women’s Concerns. These groups also make information
easy to access. There is no excuse for remaining in the Dark
Ages of misconception.

A very important reason for learning about sexual as-
sault is to be able to support those who have been a victim
of it. There is a very good chance that you know someone
who has been a victim. According to Mary Koss’s survey:
of college students, about one in every four women in col-
lege have been sexually assaulted. These women need
love, support and friendship. Rape is the most difficult
crime to accept and to admit, but it is essential that both
occur so that recovery can begin. Your understanding is
vital in this recovery. You should know what to do, what to
say and what not to say if someone comes to you for help.
You should also be aware that thoughtless statements and
jokes about rape make it impossible for friends to talk to
you about their experiences or ask for help. It is uptoeach -

-of us to take responsibility for learning about this issue and

for helping others deal with it.

The Davidson College Rape Crisis has seiithy started
holding office hours from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in our office’in.
the union. Our office is located off the far right corner of the
lobby , down the corridor. Peer Counselors are available for
listening, and accessing information about sexual assault.
Hall counselors and RA’s also have our names and num-
bers. For anyone interested in learning more about sexual
assault and how to help victims of it, there will be a peer
counselor training session on Jan. 31 and Feb. 7 in the
union from 10 a.m to 5 p.m., contact Melissa (3951) for
more information.

It is up to us to start caring and to stop hurting each wiles
through our ignorance and non-concern.

Nobel Prize a Western opinion

Bilal El-Amine

f

The Nobel Peace Prize has always been the most con-
troversial of the Nobel awards. In 1978, for example, both
Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat were awarded the

Nobel Peace prize for their efforts to end the incessant hos- —

tility between Egypt and Israel. The West, on the one hand,
viewed Sadat and Begin as men of peace, and hence worthy
of the awards. Arabs, on the other hand, had suffered the
belligerency of the Begin regime and the oppression of
Sadat’s government. Consequently, Arabs were obviously
appalled that these two leaders had been chosen as the reci-
pients of the world’s most prestigious humanitarian award.
A somewhat similar controversy has surfaced over the most
* recent winner of the Nobel Peace Prize — Elie Wiesel.

‘As author of The Night and other accounts of the
Holocaust, Wiesel has devoted his life to the preservation
of what befell the Jewish people during World War II. The
world must never forget humanity's greatest crime, Weisel
often asserts, so that the Holocaust will never be repeated.
He has also been outspoken about the plights of other
peoples in distress. “I remember I fought for Biafra, as I did
for Bangladesh, as I am trying to do now tor Cambodia,”
Wiesel said in a 1978 interview. “| think that it is a scandal
that the United States has not done anything to stop the
massacre in Cambodia” (The Nation, Dec. 20, 1986, p.

690). He reaffirmed this commitment in his Nobel accep-

tance speech on 10 December 1986: ‘Wherever men and
women are persecuted because of their race, religion, and
political views, that place must — at that moment — be-
come the center of the universe” (New York Times, Dec.
11, 1986). His guardianship consistently applies to Andrei
Sakhorov, losif Begun, Lech Walesa, and even Nelson

Mandela. But what of the Palestinians? When it comes to -

this issue Wiesel is silent. -

Despite the magnitude of violence which has precipi-
tated from the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Wiesel has con-
tinually refused to criticize Israel. As a prominent Jewish
writer, Wiesel is highly respected in Israel. And yet, our

_ celebrated humanitarian declines the opportunity to protest
atrocities in the country where he retains the most influ-
ence. It is for-this. reason that--agree with sore -Arabs as

‘well as a few Israelis that Wiesel was not worthy of the
Nobel Peace Prize.

Alfred Nobel, founder of the Nobel Prize, established
this award for those who have contributed most positively
to humanity on an international scale. Wiesel’s humanita-
rian struggle seems to be selective. He will defend human
rights everywhere-except the cases in which Israel is the
perpetrator. “The price I chose to pay for not living in Is-
rael,” he once said, “‘is not to criticize Israel from outside its
borders” (The Nation, Nov. 8, 1986, p. 478). When asked
to comment about the Shatila-Sabra massacre (where Is-
raeli occupation forces in Lebanon facilitated the massacre
of several hundred Palestinian civilians), Wiesel replied
that he was “sad.” He was sad for Israel, “and not against
Israel.” After all, he continued, “the Israeli soldiers did not
kill” (Ibid). He was right, Israeli soldiers did not kill. They
only surrounded the refugee camps and illuminated the
whole area for the Phalangist murderers within. In another
interview, Wiesel dismissed the whole Shatila-Sabra affair
as an “episode” in the lives of an ancient people. He argued:
“I believe one cannot judge an ancient people on the basis
of episodes. We [the Jews] are a 4,000-year-old people,
and what we do today reflects a history of 4,000 years.
Episodes are episodes” (The Nation, Dec. 20, 1978). On
yet another occasion when he was confronted with Begin’s
abusive policies in the occupied West Bank, he evaded the
issue by stating that he did not possess all the necessary in-
formation to make a judgement (Ibid). At that time, Begin
had invoked an Iron Fist policy through which the Israeli
defense forces rather than Palestinian civilians would gov-

ern the Palestinian population in the-Occupied Territories.

(Human rights violations under this policy are well
documented — consult Amnesty International reports, for
example.)

There is no question about Wiesel’ s more-than-mild re-
servations about criticizing Israel for its crimes. But what is
more irritating is that this great man is endowed with great
hypocrisy that escapes detection in Western minds.
Wiesel, a so-called guardian of peace, with all his human-

ity and all his hatred for persecution, has these words to say ©

in response to Israel's siege of Beirut: “Would it not have
been better to have offered Israel unreserved Support, re-
gardless of the suffering endured by the population of

Beirut? In the face of hatred, our love for Israel ought to _

have deepened, become more whole-hearted, and our faith

-in Israel more compelling. more true” (The Nation, Nov. 8,"

1986, p.478). Over 300 civilians were killed and thousands
wounded during that siege. Less than five years later, in his
Nobel acceptance speech, a tearful Wiesel told the world,
“I swore never to be silent whenever and wherever human
beings endure suffering and humiliation” (New. York
Times, Dec. 11, 1986). And the audience joined the weep-

ing.

But across the continent of Europe and the Mediterra-
nean Sea, away from this glorious occasion, in an Israeli
concentration camp called Ansar, Israeli interrogators
touched an exposed electric wire to Mehdi El-Amine’s pri--
vate parts. Mehdi, the Palestinians, Lebanon, and even the
Middle East were not, however, considered in Oslo, Nor-
way, where the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded. Perhaps
these considerations were disregarded because the prize is a
Western institution judged on Western standards. But you
must agree, if’the Nobel Peace Prize is to be an interna-
tional award, as it was originally conceived, Arab conten-
tions must be considered. If Arab objections were taken
into account as they should have been in this case, then Elie
Weisel would not have been eligible for the Nobel Peace
Prize.

The exclusion of Arab opinion (or any region outside
the West) is part of a larger trend in which “international”
has come to represent only Western opinion. Since World
War II, Western hegemony has penetrated even the most
isolated enclaves of the world. Western standards have,
however, been asserted with such self-righteousness. that
they have provoked hostility in some areas such as Iran.
Though, in most cases, Western standards have been ac-
cepted. Those cultures which have rejected Western ideas
are often dubbed as revolutionary, radical, or (if violence is
employed) terrorist. In most cases, these accusations stick
because of the West's ability to decimate its propaganda.
We must be wary of such rhetoric and the ethnocentric.
mindset which produces it. Always question the moral
judgments of the U.S. and other Western nations. I have at-
tempted in this “opinion” to provide an good example of the

bias that is almost inherent in the West’s moral standing.
This could also be true of any other region. But, in light of
the extent of Western hegemony today, the Western bias is
more likely to be accepted over a larger area.

- El-Amine is a senior from Lebanon —
