10—

—Friday, September 25, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah a ie Managing Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, News Editor
Tom Moore, Features Editor Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Laundry: worth the price?

“The cost of education is rising. I can do my own laundry. Why ve I
have to pay more and more to get my clothes cleaned?” That’s what more
and more Davidson students are asking themselves as laundry fees go up
and up — by more than a hundred dollars in the past four: pier Does
Davidson really need a laundry? It’s a tough question.

Some simple mathematical calculations would seem to prove that the
Davidson laundry is extraordinarily expensive. Suppose that a load of
laundry costs $1.50 to wash at a typical coin-operated laundromat, and
that the typical Davidson student would wash four loads of clothes a

’ week. Throw in perhaps twenty dollars for detergent. That adds up to
$200 a year, a lot less than the $310 students are required to pay to David-.
son.

Davidson’s laundry just can’t seem to get into the black. It lost over a
hundred thousand dollars in 1984. It’s projected that it will break even
this year, but that’s not surprising; when a business can raise its prices
without fear of losing customers, profits can be summoned at the stroke
of a pen. (The proper economic term for such a business is “monopoly.”)

And as if the economics of it all weren’t bad enough, there’s also the
matter of the quality of the laundry’s work: many students complain that
their clothes are damaged at the Davidson laundry. There’s no way to tell
how extensive such damage might really be, but even the smallest prob-
lems reflect rather badly upon the college. Instead of having to blame

themselves for their poorly-handled clothes, the students blame David-
son. :

So why do we have a laundry? Why don’t we just shut it down and fill
the building with coin-operated washers and dryers? Students would
save money, so they’d be happy. Coin-operated laundries usually make

money, so the college would be happy. What’s the big deal?

The era when there was an absolute necessity for the college laundry

is long since past. Davidson is no longer as isolated as it once was, and

the student body could now conceivably support a coin-operated laun-
dromat. Perhaps the most important reason why Davidson College still
has a.laundry, then, is because it employs so many people. Die-hard free-
marketeers might be inclined to advocate firing the staff and installing
-machines in the name of efficiency, but in a community like Davidson
which bases itself upon trust and fellowship such an action would
amount to little more than heartless greed. The people at the laundry de-
pend upon it for their livelihoods; they’ re also much more caring and sen-
sitive than coin-operated washing machines. A machine can’t sew on a
' button or dry-clean the expensive wool slacks that you foolishly included
in the bag with your socks. Students pay a price to support a labor-inten-
sive laundry, but the laundry is a much warmer place because of it. |

J

But sooner or later the college will have to face the fact that the laun-

dry is economically unfeasable. Students can’t be expected to perpetu-
ally subsidize a money-losing business just because it would be morally

painful to dismantle it. Woukdn’t it be best, then, to try to phase out the —

laundry over a long period of time so as to protect the people who have
~ devoted their lives to it? Workers could be assigned to other branches of
-the college $-ff until they eventually decided to stop working. They

wouldn’t be hurt, and the college wouldn’t be forced to bear the

economic burden of supporting a money-losing enterprise. Eventually

the mandatory laundry’ fee could be eliminated and coin-operated
machines installed. It would be a difficult SOUMION Ip oRcheMteRte, but in

ge een ene Dee tee

And even while it charges so much more than a laundromat would, :

°*45 700 - Seat Conis—eEumM

“DAVIDSON COLLEGE

*New Coege Conpor ius

Awe (ucu Woke

=

* New Aricernc Facict 75
: $

ad More GREEN Posts

Ih Our Pages. ...

Fifteen years ago

BOARD PLAN — Controversy over
the college’s new board plan sparked debate
during Davidson’s first week of classes.
Under the new plan, $2.51 is allotted per
day for a student’s meals, but students
claim that figure is not enough, resulting in
students not eating nutritious meals. Ap-
proximately $600 was paid in board fees by
the students. Food Services Director Ron
Scott claims that by the end of the term, stu-
dents should have money left over because
of weekends spent away from Davidson and
invi for meals at fraternity houses.

Students can pick from two different
houses and atmospheres for meals:
Richards house, a snack bar serving full
meals or short orders, and Rusk house, a
“buffeteria” which serves sandwiches at
lunch but for dinner becomes a steak house.

BLACKS PROTEST — Black stu-

_dents at Davidson have protested to Dean of
- Students Will Terry over their harassment

by campus police officers. In eleven days,
three Davidson students who were black

were detained by policemen, asked to pro-.

vide I.Ds, and questioned about their busi-
ness on campus. For one black student, the
student I.D. was not enough, and was asked
to produce a “special piece of paper” which
stated that he was actually a student.
ELECTION ‘72 — Students... who
voted in the straw poll voted 320 for Nixon,
245 for McGovern, and 11 for Schmity.
Faculty votes were McGovem, 45, and

Nixon, 13. President Samuel Spencer urged -
students, the majority of whom could vote
for the first time in a national election, to
vote and to make arrangements for absentee
ballots if necessary.

Five years ago

NEW HOUSE: BSC — The Black Student
Coalition, which’ has been at Davidson
since the early seventies, moved from
Jackson to Patterson Court to be more in the
mainstream of campus social life.

President Anne Elliot expects fifty
black students to join the house, which she
sees as, “a backbone of strength for
blacks . . .[which] will expose whites to —
the culture and sensitivities of blacks that
the majority of Davidson students would
never experience or face.”
_ According to house secretary Judy Har-
rell, the BSC, which is open to all students
at all times, is at Davidson “to encourage in-
terrelationships among blacks and whites.” —

SOCCER WINS — Memorial Stadium
was the scene of an incredible tie-breaker as
Coach Slagle’s soccer team, aided by the
phenomenal goalkeeping efforts of junior
Pat Woodward and the team’s remarkable
defense, eliminated Winthrop College in
the final game of the Charlotte Observer .
tournament. :

The. final confrontation ended in a
“shootout” which decided the tied game
after 110 minutes of scoreless battle; final

count: 2-1.
}

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson

College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.

Phone (704) 892-2088, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student

Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not

reflect the views of the'editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per
— year; or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. 7:

Capyrians Rare 2) See Tractors of Davweeen Comage-

News Staff: Jon Boles, Margeret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George cum; Lisa
LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan
Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Suzanne Graymer, Jennifer Hoffmann, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill
Scouten, Lee Eichelberger, Ash Ashannudin, Glenn Fogle.

Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Anthony McCarron, maieye
Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell. :

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation,
Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.
Production Staff:Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Bowe
Strickland, Susan Majors, Jon Boles. »

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Bill Carrell, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.

