Sl

Friday, April 24, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

5

THREE THOUGHTS FROM WINDY GAP
EDITORIAL :

Somewhere along the line there is a strange correlation I.
between psychological tension and creative output. 1 am not only basing I sit upowd | grassy hill.
this on my personal experience but also judging by the enormous amount Knowing the presence of something
of submissions I have received from the readers lately, despite the Beyond even the mountains which
academic stress increasing as the term enters its final phase. Rise in rows before me.

This time we have the concluding part of the short story “In The Be- I may leave the mountains, _
ginning” which was published in the last issue. In the next couple of is- This hilltop where I reach out in
sues we’ ll have the winning entries of the Vereen Bell, Charles Lloyd and Broad embrace,

Windley Hall writing contests this year. But the flowing wind that surrounds

Again, eagerly looking forward to your submissions for the coming And fills me,
issues ! Remains.
Yours truly, 1
SUDEEP SEN Black and yellow
Inside Art Editor Against the mute sand,
Where lively water
Flows by

Bouncing among the stones,
Thirteen butterflies float.

They drift like Fall leaves
In spring thaw,
Unshrouded from

Silk cocoons.

They feed by the
Flowing spring water.

Hl.

Cool breezes flow from
The valley, and

Ruffle the pages

Of mv book.

At once,

Mere words are swept from
Smooth puges and

Up into the mountains.
Thev settle gently,
fresh petals

On a twisted dogwood.

ON KEATS

He saw
Fragments of
Ancient lovers in
, Stone,

— * Baan Once alive.
“Sarah” RICHARIP \\) CLOUDT ’87 We suppose.
: Or was it life.
They succumbed
To eternity,
Lost in the
Pieces of tomorrow
That future generations

What a liar I am; I'm obsessed by that View with admiration

me something that I couldn’t accept.
'. That is something that I have never
‘S later, something that I think will prob-
-andles everywhere. The light was eerie
ere constantly dancing around me. The
hings that had died, or could never live.
a strange and struggling life, a trapped
out in brief and hidden moments. When
‘ars itself from the coat and runs to the
‘dom. The coat hangs, paralyzed, on the

Other things dance in their own shadows after death. Those were the
things I was seeing, the things that I will never be able to banish from
memory. Whirling around me in a mad celebration of freedom, laughing
at the shells they had left behind. I could only watch. Laura offered me
some sort of freedom that I didn’t understand. I think I had no shadow;
I’m not sure right now why it was that | was watching, why I still hold the
firm conviction that I could not have joined in. I was outside, some-
where. Away, intensely separated.

Now | light candles mostly for memory. It is the ugly things that we
remember best, because they are the things that shape us and make us
whole. Laura was beautiful. | see her face in the flame.

And equally lifeless
Joy.

Admiring rock

As love,

Wistfully pondering

How it used to be, When all it was,

Is, now,

And now

Is just a

Stone fragment

Of a life once lived,
Now lived,

Never lived.

JOHN DAVID RAMSEY ’87

l

