Opinions

The Davidsonian
Friday, March 20, 1987

Davidson social life offers nothing new

i
1

Ken Bogert & Jeff Loser
Before reading this op inion, please accept the fact that
weekends at Davidson leave a lot to be desired. The social
life here revolves around alcohol. Although this is under-
standable given the lack of alternatives, weekends centered

around alcohol are unfulfilling. If you think of us as mal-
contents, you are right.

typical account of a typical party on a typical Friday night.
Our main character, Sam, likes to mimic the phony frater-
nity language, which we have set off in parentheses. If you
are offended, you have no right to be. Take a detached look
at the fraternity social system. Do you see a bunch of wild
party animals? No, you are looking at a boring bunch of
children. : ;
Sam speaking now. I’m sitting here, Bud. Tall Boy in
hand, pondering about all that Davidson has to offer so-
cially. OK — done pondering. The only thing to do is to
go down to the “parties.” But “Miami Vice” isn’t over.
Nothing happens till after “Vice.” OK — “Vice” is over.
I’ve decided to go towards Patterson Court. Just go where
the music is. (That’s where the party is, Dude.) I walk
down the path behind the Commons and get mud all over

I’m in — they all look the same. I’m passed off at the door
as an independent by six girls wearing golf hats. (Can’t be
independent ‘round here and éxpect the chicks to dig ya.)
I’ve decided that the only thing to do is to “get hammered.”
What else is there to do on a Friday night at Davidson? I
push myself towards the stairs hoping to get a beer. Nobody
warits to get me one — I’m not affiliated, I’m not of age
and I’m not a freshman. I wish you could get a beer as eas-
ily as you can get one spilled on you.

Five beers later. (I’m working on a humunga-buzz,
Dude.) I hear R.E.M. play the same tune for the fourth time
tonight. I'd like to move away from the speaker, but the
other side of the room smells like barf. I should have known
that fun would be impossible. It’s not late, but I’m going to
get out of here. Everyone I know that was here has sud-

— While we believe the alcohol issue is serious, we can-—my -new. Reeboks.-Can‘t-see-a-damn-thing -around-here__denly vanished. (Time to crash, Dude.) Can’t wait till next

not address it in that fashion. Why not? Because Davdi-

(The light was totally totaled last weekend by some righte-

son’s social life is a joke. We simply want to create a little ous party animals, Dude.)

~ controversy just for the hell of it- The following article is a

Now I’m where the music is. But I can’t tell what house

weekend.
Ken Bogert is a junior from Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, and Jeff Loser
is a sophomore from San Juan Capistrano, CA.

Let’s abandon stereotype of hysterical females

In Tennessee Williams’ play The Night of the Iguana,
Shannon tells Hank of an insight: “Hank, hysteria is a natu-
ral phenomenon, the common denominator of the female

-nature. It’s the big female weapon, and the test of a man is
his ability to cope with it.” During the pressures of exams,
many of us were forced to cope with the big female weapon
because a man by the name of Miron Douglas HoHer came
to campus in search of a little action.

From all that I could gather, Miron grabbed a quart of
beer a few weeks ago and set out for an adventure. Dressed
to party, Miron went up to Fourth Rich. An hysterical
female got riled up and ended the adventure by phoning the
campus police. Miron was escorted off campus.

Well, as it tumed out, Miron wasn’t through partying.
A week later, he headed back to Fourth Rich to see if any-
on. wanted to break the tedium of studying for exams.

Miron entered a few rooms to check out what was going on,
and an hysterical female, once again, phoned the campus
police. The switchboard operator, because she was a
woman, was immediately able to recognize the voice of a
fellow hysteric, and so she said, “Don’t worry, honey; ev-
erything’s okay.”

Meanwhile, Miron headed down to Third Rich to find
better company. Miron entered a sleeping girl’s room,
lifted her covers and grabbed her leg. Too tired to party, the
girl threatened to scream if Miron wouldn’t leave. Frus-
trated and alienated, Miron left. For the second time,

Miron ran into our campus police, who once again ruined a -

good night of fun by taking Miron off campus. Rumor has it
that Miron was even taken to jail but was bailed out by his
mother who feared that police brutality would traumatize

_her. boy. Rumor has a lot to say. Some claim Miron was

here for three weeks before his picture was posted across’
our campus. He has been reported to have been seen in just
about every girls’ dorm, and many girls report that Miron
visited them in their rooms. I have heard so many Miron
stories that it is hard to say exactly what is true and what is
not.

However, I can assert several things with certainty. A
man who is suspected of committing rape and murder was
on our campus for at least a week and a half. Many people,
including me, suspected that females were overreacting to

the situation until some frightening facts arose. Even after
it was known that Miron was probably a rapist and a mur-

‘derer, some girls were too embarrassed to ask boys to walk

them at night. A girl was chased by Miron but did not
bother reporting the incident to the police. This lack of ac-
tion is characteristic of the response of our campus to a situ-
ation that was potentially dangerous.

Why did the police allow a man, who was chasing girls
and entering girls’ rooms, to leave their custody twice be- ’
fore they ran a check and discovered that the man was
wanted for rape and murder?

It seems that an attitude as naive as that expressed in
The Night of the Iguana exists even at Davidson. Perhaps
policemen, staff and students felt that girls who reported
seeing Miron were being hysterical, and perhaps females
who saw, were chased by, and assaulted by Miron did not
report these things because they feared being sterotyped as
an hysterical female. It is fortunate that no one was raped or
hurt, but just because nothing severe happened does not
mean that we should forget everything. It would be wise for
all of us to abandon the sterotyupe ofthe hysterical female
because, in our case, the “big female weapon” could have
caused a serious injury.

Bowman is a sophomore from Richmond, VA.

Davidson football deserves more student attention

This opinion is about the article “Basketball team av-
enges football agonies” and the editorial on the 1987
Homecoming Game in the Jan. 28 issue of the Davidso-
nian. Being at Davidson for nearly three years has been a
challenge for me and I consider myself fortunate to have
been a part of the football program. For most players the
“glory days” of high school football are over, and that’s
certainly been true for me. The first thing I became aware
of as a freshman football player at Davidson was the lack of
school support for the football program. This fact has been
a reality at Davidson for quite some time. I write now both
as a concerned student and as an athlete about the “emo-
tional numbness and athletic apathy” Mike Adams wrote
about in his article and the questions raised about the site of

the Homecoming game.

It is not my job to blame the apathy concerning the foot-
ball program on anyone. Everyone loves a winner, and
winning is what gets people to the games. However, I don’t
appreciate the attitudes reflected in these articles. Instead
of giving any type of positive support for the future of

between the football team’s losses against Southern Con-
ferrence opponents and the basketball team’s successes
against them are pointless. Why use the struggles of a past
season to bring attention to the successes of the basketball
program? The basketball team’s victories deserve praise in
their own light. Instead, Adams half-jokingly talks of the
“redemption” of the Wildcat fan. My point is this: why
should articles continue to express apathy and indifference
to a football program trying to turn things around? Don’t
accuse me of being paranoid, or that I feel that the Davidso-
nian is anti-football. But what disturbs me is that editorials
are being written eight months before the game in Charlotte
expressing the attitude that no one cares enough about foot-
ball to drive twenty miles to see a game. With this attitude,
the location of any of the games shouldn’t matter; it implies
that Davidson students will always prefer to get wasted on a
Saturday afternoon rather than to support the one-tenth of

the male enrollment participating on the football field.
While the editorial encourages us “to consider the
realities of Homecoming instead of ideals,” I don’t feel it is
unrealistic to think that a student body of Davidson's
caliber can truly be supportive of a game in Charlotte. The
reality that needs to be faced is the continuing attitude on

_______Davidson’s football program, the comparisons by Adams __ campus that the football program will not change. This in-

difference has made it tough for athletes to integrate into
the student body. Sure, it’s easy to stereotype all football
players, but that’s not fair to the type of student-atheletes
involved with the football program. Interest in next year’s
season in the Colonial Conference could be fostered
through supportive articles and features. The months off
the playing field are crucial to the success of a season. Why
not write about the improvements being made in the
weight-training program or the recruiting efforts of the
football coaching staff? These recommendations em-
phasize my call for constructive, positive attitades from our
school newspaper concerning the football program. My
opinions are intended to create an awareness of the indiffer-
ence that I feel can, and should, be changed at Davidson.

Poulos is a junior from Sumter, SC.
