Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELECTION 7°87

This Tuesday, the SGA will be holding elections for Union officers, YSSC officers, freshman advisors, defense advisors,
student solicitors, and The Davidsonian’s editor. Several candidates have submitted campaign statements:

Editor
The Davidsonian

Maria Douglas

My name is Maria Douglas. I am a junior English major from
Charleston, SC and I want to be editor of the Davidsonian.

My journalistic experience so far has cavered quite a bit of
territory. For the past two years I have been a staff reporter for the
Davidsonian in the news department. To supplement my experi-
ence here, I externed at the Charlotte Leader for a short time
before moving on to the Observer for an internship spring term
last year. I mainly wrote what are called “headed obits,” stories
that recounted the life of a deceased person. I also wrote several
features, dealing mainly with school-aged children. That intern-
ship helped strengthen my reporting skills. My editing skills also
improved because I was forced to edit my own work, getting it as
close to perfection as T'could before my editor got a crack at it.

Last summer I worked as an editorial assistant of Cash Flow,
a national trade magazine for treasurers and chief financial
officers.

I wrote copy, as well as proofed, edited and laid out two
departments and some articles. I also wrote a feature article. My
plans are to continue my experience with a magazine or newspa-
per this summer.

Those three experiences provided me a solid foundation on
which to build a journalism career: would like touse what have
learned and continue that building as editor of the Davidsonian.

The Davidsonian is arelatively good paper, but believe more .

“could be done with it. The newspaper plays an important role in
the college community. The role would be fulfilled more effi-
ciently if the caliber of the paper were improved. Because I feel
the college newspaper serves as a training ground for the budding
journalist, it should come as close as it can to providirig that type
experience. I also think we owe it to the rest of the community to
display our best reporting skills. That is one of my goals.

Another of my aims is to bring a new perspective to the paper.
I think the paper needs some changes made. I would like to see
an even greater emphasis placed on Davidson and the events that
affect it.
Another goal is to see more students involved with the paper.
I think the more students working to make this the best paper
possible, the greater the chance we have at achieving our goal.
And “our” newspaper is what I hope it will grow into as more
students become involved and the Campus becomes interested.
‘Finally, I would like to state my editorial mission or objec-
tives. As editor of the Davidsonian, my mission will be to provide
information as well as entertainment to the Davidson Commu-

nity through hard work and dedication. My experience and ©

sincere interest make me qualified to serve in this capacity.

Tom Moore

The Editor of The Davidsonian must be an individual who not
only has a general idea of what journalism is all about, but also
must be completely familiar with the particulars of Davidson's
newspaper. Familiarity with the budget, the paper’s production
schedules and the publishing software we use is essential to the
editor’s ability to do the job.

I am the candidate best acquainted with these particulars.
Together with current Editor Keith Finch and co-Associate
Editor Jon Boles, I make editorial, policy and personnel deci-
sions. For example, The Davidsonian was fortunate this year to
be able to move away from its antiquated typesetting equipment
and toward the future: we purchased a desktop publishing system
with a laser printer. I was integral to the new system’s purchase,
and as Associate Editor, I electronically compose the entire paper
every week. After spending countless hours working with the
software and sitting in front of the screen into the wee hours of
many mornings, I feel I know the program and process thor- -
oughly.

As Features Editor, the position I held Spring Term last year,
I was responsible for assigning and editing all features copy. This
was a good extension of my high school experience, in which I

-—— have droves of people writing for its newspaper. My goal is not

to get half the campus involved with the paper’s production but
rather to cultivate a strong group of editors who are willing to
work with the technology and the writers. Students are too busy
as a group for one more extracurricular, and besides, there would
be no one left to read the paper!

I know the school, the technique, the equipment and the staff.
In short, I’ve put in the necessary time: writing, editing, publish-
ing and living and breathing this newspaper. Cast your ballot
Tuesday!

To quote Al Capone: “Vote early and vote often.”

Freshman Advisors

Jay Barron: Hall Counselor on 3rd Little, Spanish major.
Beth Anderson: Hall Counselor on 4th Rich, Religion major,
Rusk

We are Jay Barron and Beth Anderson and we are running for
the position of Freshman Advisors. We feel that Hall Counselors
play a vital role in the Davidson community and we are excited
about the possibility of being involved in the selection process.
We would do our best to help select the new Hall Counselors
fairly and to help prepare them for their position. We hope to
work closely with the Hall Counselor applicants, the selected
Hall Counselors, and the Freshman class of ’92 and would
appreciate your vote. ;

Mike Cowan
Elleen Keeley

Strong qualifications and high standards are essential for the
positions of freshman advisors. Of course, all the candidates
exhibit these necessary requirements--they are all hall counsel-
ors, solid students, and they are all visible on campus. These
accomplishments, however, only begin to describe what is
needed to make good freshman advisors. You should vote for the
Mike Cowan/Eileen Keeley team because our combined quali-
ties yield efficient and exciting results. In addition to being
reliable, we have the energy to motivate those around us.

Our ideas supported by. our efforts produce solid results. Our
energy encourages others.to utilize their attributes to the best of
their ability. Steady, reliable freshman advisors will do the work,
but our added enthusiasm will help make the job fun and
worthwhile for all those involved. Please support Mike and
Eileen for the most effective freshman advisors.

Joe B. Martin
Kim White

Having a diverse yet united group of hall counselors is very
important. The freshman advisors play a vital role in this. From
our experience during the retreat last March and preorientaion we
have seen how effective two energetic and devoted freshman
advisors can be. The entire process of hall counselor selection
and training is hard work because the hall counselors have such
a major influence on the incoming freshmen. The freshman hall
experience at Davidson is designed to help the freshmen adjust
to college, get to know each other, and realize the importance of
their contribution to the Davidson College community. We'd
like to emphasize a more active and direct relationship between
the freshman advisors and the freshmen as this would greatly
enhance not only the positions of freshman advisor and hall
counselor but the freshman experience as.a whole.

- Charlie Winn
Barbara Matheny
Oh no, riot another set of elections! Not during these three
weeks! Unfortunately, yes. In acouple of days, you will have the
opportunity to vote for various members of the student body who
are running for a variety of campus offices. One important office
‘you will vote for will be that of the Freshman Advisor and that
is the purpose of this article. We’re Charlie Winn and Barbara

accomplishments of previous Freshman Advisors have sparked
new ideas in us. We have definite ideas about possible discus-
sions, programs, and general information that could benefit the
present Hall Counselor training period and freshman orientatio-
n. Furthermore, we feel that Freshman Advisors can work more
throughout the eritire academic year with the freshmen as well as
the Hall Counselors, acting as a valuable aid in providing greater
communication between the freshmen (as well as Hall Counsel-
ors) and other campus organizations, such as the Student Union,
SGA, and YSSC.

All right that’s enough from us for now. The rest is up'to you.
The only thing left to say is that we both have wanted to do this
for some time, we are good friends and we really believe that we
can do a great job. If there is anything else you want to know
about the job or the elections just ask one of us, Charlie Winn and
Barbara Matheny, when you see us around campus. So, regard-
less of who you vote for,on Tuesday December 15 please do stop
by the lobby of Chambers and VOTE!

Union President

Diana Titus-Allen
How can I compact in one newspaper article, all the enthusi-
asm, qualifications, and excitement which I offer in my bid for
the office of College Union President? The standard lines come_

- --— easy. Fam Diana Tims-Allen from Alexandria, Virginia and I”

transferred to Davidson Winter of 1985. My friends often tease
me because “I’m so excited” about what I am involved in; they
know my dedication and zeal forthe spirit of the Union is genuine
and runs deep. The spirit of the Union is seen in choosing torelax
over an exam break sundae, enjoying the Freshman Talent Show.
or the Dating Game, benefitting from a Latin American lecturer
or becoming spooked by Edgar Allan Poe. The Union offers pool
games and video games, student art exhibits, free munchies and
new munchies and the frequent ultimate extravaganza...a Union

video. The abundance of activities and energy in these events is
the creative effort and desire by the chairpersons and their

committee members to make the Union special and appealing for
everyone. It takes a great deal of committment but the rewards
are well worth the time. ,
T am currently Chairperson of the Campus Forum Committee

and schedule the Open Luncheon weekly speakers and prepare
the publicity and the buffet menu. Through my involvement I
have directed events each week for the past two years. This has
enhanced and strengthened my relationships with the Union staff
and my knowledge of the vast Union resources and contacts. I
was also elected by the Union Board to serve on the Policy
Committee which forms guidelines dealing with procedures for.
the entire Union. My experience has taught me to calmly and
efficiently deal with dinners for 300, to pull off a widely

- advertised baked potato bar at 12:30 with raw spuds at 12:20, to

create a rafting photo display in record time, and to remain
stubborn in my devotion to the Union and its vital place on this
campus.

I want to continue to help in creating opportunities for you to
enjoy the special, stressful and crazy times in the Union. Cast
your vote on Tuesday. I am excited about doing a great job and»
going the extra distance to make the Union spirit contagious and

appealing.

Sarah Whitesides

To convince you to vote “Sarah Whitesides for Union Presi-
dent” I need to explain what I see as the President's duties and
how I see myself fulfilling them. The President of the Union and
the two Vice Presidents interview and select the Union Board.
Workitty with the Board, the job of the president entails organ-
izing, motivationg, and supporting the individuals on the Board,
so they can work as one mutually encouraging group.

__ served as Feature Editor for the school paper. The year I edited,—1fatheny and together we are running for Freshman Advisors.

my paper was awarded the Gold Crown from Columbia Univer-
sity, given to only twelve papers nationwide each year. I also
placed first in a national feature writing contest.

My mediacontribution at Davidson has not been limited to The
Davidsonian.1 am also an intem in the College Relations Office,
where I have written stories sent out to newspapers and other
media outlets throughout the region. My work at College Rela-
tions gives me daily comtact with-all aspects of Davidson news
and newsmakers.

I see good times ahead for The Davidsonian. With the new
system we've managed to slash our production time, which will
decrease the number of late issués. Under my editorship, the
paper will cover not only Davidson College and Town proper, but
also events of interest to Davidson students unfolding in Char-
lotte and around the region and nation.

The question of lack of student participation is important, but
also, depressingly enough, seemingly eternal. Davidson has no

journalism program or coursework, and thus no real i incentive to

We'd like to briefly describe the role of the Freshman Advisors
and share some of our own ideas with you. Don’t worry, we'll
keep this short and sweet.

The new Freshman Advisors’ job begins in January and runs
through the next academic year. There are many duties of the
Freshman Advisors, the first of which is to aid in the selection of
hall counselors for next year. The Freshman Advisors also help
in planning the spring “retreat” for the hall counselors and the fall
orientations for both freshmen and hall counselors. Both of these
events require the organizing of speakers, programs, and discuss-
ions. In addition to training the Hall Counselors, the Freshman
Advisors encourage and support the Hall Counselors througho-
ut the year—a job that is not as easy as it may sound. Moreover,
the Freshman Advisors also work directly or indirectly with the
entire student body and the administration, specifically the Dean

of Students Office and the Counseling Center. There i is a good

deal more to the job but I think you get the idea.
__ We would like to expand the role of Freshman Advisors. The

ae ees AVSNEST TRF A OF

Ihave had experience on asmaller scale exercising these same
skills as co-chairman of the 900 Room Committee. Our commit-
tee has organized diverse functions ranging from Monday Night
Football, to Friday Afternoon Clubs, and including the new
Tuesday Moming Coffeehouse. My enthusiasm and energy
enabled me to encourage creativity and to follow through on
others’ ideas, as well as my own.

Bringing in new ideas and having the drive to see them through
will make me an effective Union President. Living with fresh-
men as ahall counselor I have been reacquainted with fresh ideas
_and positive attitudes and realize the importance of encouraging
freshman participation. As Union President I hope to make the
Union an attractive alternative for the freshmen and involve them
actively in the Union through the Freshmen Advisory Council.

As acandidate I would like to encourage you to take an active
role in your selection. Please don’thesitate totalk tome about the
President's role, or to ask me any questions about the Board.
Please support Sarah Whitesides for the experienced, enthusias-
tic, and energetic Union President.

