Friday, May 1, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

~—Seldom Scene from page 4-

met the other members of the band
at Davidson. When she was three,
she began playing classical violin,
then took up the fiddle as well
after meeting Molly.

Jay Wilkins, a senior, plays
guitar for the group. He began
playing seven years ago in
Greensboro.

On mandolyn for the band was
Darek Newby, a junior. Darek
also plays the guitar, and only
began playing the mandolyn three
months ago.

Guitarist Liza Paschall has
also performed with the group.
The band has been playing for al-
most two years now, though they
do not yet have a name (and wel-

I. .

come any Creative suggestions!).
Their activities around campus
have ranged from Friday After-
noon Clubs, to performances at
Natural Resources, to shows for

other types of music. “It’s the
closest thing to the folk festivals
of the Sixties such as Woodstock.
It’s an incredible feeling when
people from such diverse back-
the residents at the Bryan Center grounds get together.” At the fes-
Nursing Home. tivals, people bring their instru-
Recognizing that there are ments, and in between acts, start
many students at Davidson who _ playing songs together in a large
play instruments, the band hopes~circle. “It’s such a sharing atmos-
to organize an acoustical music phere, crowds sharing music and
society next year which would advice.” That’s what bluegrass is
provide students with the opportu- _ all about. °
nity to share different musical This past Saturday possessed
styles. an air of nostalgia as John Starling
Such an organization would returned to his Alma Mater on a
be in keeping with the spirit of the reunion tour. But it also held hints
bluegrass festivals. As Molly of the future as present Davidson
Cochran put it, it is these festivals students performed the opening
which. set bluegrass apart from acts, a position John Starling

=

7

which the modern world faces, “I__

might have held in '62.
——Convocation from page 1
In a short speech before the
closing of the convocation cere-
monies, Vance said his hope and
belief is that Davidson’s Dean
Rusk program in International
Studies and the college as a whole
“will continue to produce men and
women of the character and wis-
dom of Dean Rusk.” He said, “As
one of DAvidson’s most distin-

guished alumni,” Rusk °31, who °

was Secretary of State from 1961-
69 “personifies the kind of person
our nation needs to lead us in the
years ahead.” ,
Vance said that although he
and Rusk see “reason for discour-
agement” in the “manifold ills”

believe that both’ Dean and I see
promise overshadowing discour-
agement.” He noted that “there, is
enormous work to be done, but !
have faith that this generation of
students will do that work.”

He said that to many Ameri-
cans, “it sometimes-seems that our
sky is dangerously close.” He
said, “We live under the shadow
of nuclear weapons. Conflicts
continue in and among nations.
Millions of our fellow men and
women around the world live lives
of grinding poverty.” But he
urged that “if we work together, I
believe we too can lift the sky and
make more room for all to live —
with dignity and peace.”

©1986 By
Mant
GRoennt&

- aren, 1Ag semmieeg aury Aq prinquysi]
