12

Player profiles

A closer look at Davidson basketball

By BILL SMITH

‘As Coach Bobby Hussey enters
his seventh season as head coach,
he will be looking to five seniors
for their strong qualities of leader-
ship. These seniors have experi-
enced what it takes to reach the
NCAA Tournamentas well as win
twenty games inaseason andeach
will be expected to assert his skills
to make this year’s team asuccess.

Returning as the starting point

guard, for the fourth consecutive
pantie ultra-talented Derek

Rucker. Derek has proven his
basketball skills since his fresh-
man year by leading the team in
scoring each year; he entered this
* 1987-88 season with 1,345 points
and should end his career ranked
third in scoring. |

His high-percentage shooting
from the perimeter, especially the
three-point range, places him in
the upper echelon of players in the
NCAA. Also, Derek excels at the

charity line with his career aver-
age of eighty-six percent -- he
could eclipse Jerry Kroll’s mark
of 83.5% set in 1970.

Picked by the Southern Confer-

NA es, Gs

Derek , Rieker
ence coaches to battle. for the

_ MVP title, Derek combines with

forward Jeff Himes in the league’s
most dangerous twosome on the
court.

But Derek not only possesses
great basketball skills, ss has that

unique court awareness that head |

coaches desire so heavily. Coach
Hussey mentioned one of Derek’s
strengths in his “great head for the
game.”

Obviously, Derek can score, as
proven by his occasional thirty-
point-plus games; yet, he under-

stands his role of point guard and.

team leader to the extent that he
knows when to sacrifice his per-

playing time, his love for basket-:
ball and his great attitude contrib-
ute to the closeness of this team.
Coach Hussey is grateful for
Fitz’s understanding of the game
because he often indicates areas of

weakness or new ideas. Fitz, a~

standout as a pitcher for our base-
ball team and drafted by the Yan-
kees last year, excels in his mental
awareness on the court.

sonal feats for the success 0 thé / This: yeas, s, team, Fitz men-

team.

Derek can see, as Coach Hussey
commented, whether a player is
having a good night or the advan-
tage over an opponent, and he can
complement that player for the

- betterment of the team. Itis easily

apparent that Derek contributes
heavily to Davidson’s chia
success.

Senior David ise rid. nick-
named “Fitz,” is another excellent
example of a team leader. Al-
though Fitz has not seen much

\N

David Piesereta

Friday, December 4, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

tioned, is the most talented team
he has seen in his career and espe-
cially has players who are more
versatile. | He believes that
Davidson will be quicker and
more up-tempo than in previous
years while maintaining that ag-
gressive style which improves our
defense.

Coach Hussey | is fortunate to
have such a positive influence as
Fitz for his large crop of sopho-
mores and freshmen. From Fitz,
Derek and Coach Hussey came
compliments for recent student
support. All three indicated that
attendance would be a vital factor’
in the success of this year’s team.

With a tough schedule -- and
this year’s schedule is a fine ex-
ample --exuberant support from a
student body may very well de-
cide close games. Finally, Coach
Hussey said that one goal for this
season is to have 100% of
Davidson’s students at a game.

Where have all the heroes gone?

Top basketball schools forget their roots

By CHRIS HUGHES

Back in the 1970s, before Brent
Musberger and Billy Packer made college
basketball just another made-for-television
sports extravaganza, the sport was domi-

nated by relatively few teams.
Everyone’s Top Twenty was bound to
include such standbys as North Carolina,

Kentucky, and Indiana. However, notonly
were these schools the top programs in
terms of talent, butalso in terms of class and
tradition. Recently, they seem to have for-
gotten what made them the teams they are.

Kentucky’s tradition goes back over
seven decades now and includes NCAA
records for best all-time winning percent-

age and most wins. Yet, the case against
Kentucky has always been that it is too big.

In 1977, the NCAA camedown on UK for
several minor rules violations by limiting
the number of scholarships the Cats could
give -- a small slap on the wrist at the time.

- Still, less than three years ago, the Lexing-

ton Herald-Leader found evidence that UK

McCarron to Bo Jackson: sine baseball!
NFL’s hobbyist should switch to full time

By penises MCCARRON

After Bo Jackson’s outstanding 221 yard,
3 TD performance on Monday night helped
the Raiders mangle Seattle, the former He-
isman Trophy winner is once again making
headlines. Should Bo play football or base-
ball? Does he indeed have to choose oné or
the other?

Obviously, he is a tremendous athlete,
and has enjoyed some success at the top
level of both his chosen sports. The prob-
lem remains whether or not he can acheive
his highest potential in either sport while
still pursuing his “hobbies.”

The Raiders sport the number one rush-
ing offense in the NFL at this writing,
thanks largely to Jackson and Marcus Al-
len. Bo has amassed 475 yards on the
ground in 5 games and has also run for 4
touchdowns. In addition to this, he has
" caught 11 passes, including one fora touch-
down.

The 221 yards of ground gainage he
rumbled for on Monday night was the tenth-
best effort in NFL history. To state the

obvious, Bo is a helluva football player.

This 6-1, 222 pound tailback also produced
over 4 thousand yards and 43 touchdowns
during his college career at Auburn, which
he capped in banner style by winning the
Heisman and being chosen number one in
the NFL draft.

After leaving Auburn, however, Jackson
shocked the sports world by opting to pur-
sue a career in baseball. He spurned the
Tampa Bay Bucs’ offer of riches and NFL
glory to sign for only $333,000 per year
courtesy of the Kansas City Royals.

He spent only a half a year in the minor

leagues before being brought up to the bigs.
has easroxed mixed success. His po-

av 1e, scouts say. Hal McRae,

tunately, many of his shortcomings have
been more widely publicized. He has, at
times, looked brutal. On April 17, 1987, he

became the 25th player in major league

history to strike out five times in one game.
This whiff-a-thon prompted a 20 K in 10

game binge. He only chipped in with a .

lowly .207 batting average in his 1986 cup
of coffee with the Royals, and started 87
out by fanning 7 times in his first 13 trips to
the plate. _

It would slight Bo’s baseball talents,
though, to avoid mentioning some good

' things about him. He did pound 22 hom-

eruns in 1987, and also drove in 53 runs. He
gave a startling demonstration of his
strength last spring when he smashed a

broken bat grand slam 475 feet against King -
_George’s New York Yankees. The com-
. parisons to Willie Mays, however, are a tad

premature.

Boannounced, in fine taste, thathe would:

pursue football with the Los Angeles Raid-
ers, even before his season with the Royals
concluded. After this, he proceeded to add
to his lofty strikeout totals by whiffing 46
times in his final 119 at-bats.

Perhaps he felt that after he had en-
sconced himself as sport’s most publicized

‘two-sport man, he could ease up a little.

After his great game Monday night, he was
asked about his two-sport situation and
what he was going to do about it.

He replied, in typical brash Bo fashion, “I

haven’t really thought about it,” he said, —

“Why should I? Right now I’m just having
fun.” Can he continue his “fun,” I wonder,
when spring training rolls around?

‘Can he convince us that his concentration
will be good enough to continue to improve

in both sports? What about his teammates? ©

Many professional athletes have clauses in
their contracts prohibiting them from en-
gaging in activities deemed unsafe by
management.

~ When Rovals teammate George Brett

heard aout Bo’s dangerous new “hobby”
of running over 250 pound linebackers in
the NFL, he stated, “I’m thinking about
taking up Brahma bull riding and sword
fighting.” Perhaps they do not appreciate
his dual interests, especially when he per-
forms such tricks as leaving autographed
pictures of himself accepting the Heisman
Trophy on Royals autograph day.

- Marcus Allen, another former Heisman
winner, cannot be too pleased, having to
share the ball-carrying duties with Bo, not

_ to mention the headlines.

The bottom line is this: Bo Jackson has
got to make a decision. In a situation
similar to the woman who has to choose
between two lovers, Bo has got to decide
which to give his heart to. From my point
of view, seeing him in the headlines dis-
cussing his new hobbies only serves to
infuriate me.

I think he should pick one and shut up.
His mind was on the gridiron in late Sep-
tember each time he threw his bat down in
disgust after another whiff. It could have
been disastrous if the Royals were fighting
more doggedly for the pennant.

Who can say what would happen if the
Raiders were facing fourth and goal late in
the fourth quarter of the AFC Champion-
ship game, down by 5, and Bo’s number got
called when he was due to fly to Ft. Myers,
Fla., to begin spring training with the
Royals?

His success and potential for further
success is exponentially higher in carrying
the ball than swinging at it. Bo is an awe-
inspiring athlete, but he needs to choose one
or the other.

He loses too much time in the football
season, eventually even his sculpted body

will need a rest between seasons, and his

concentration must suffer under the de-
mands of two long seasons.

Make the switch, Bo, strap on the shoul.
der pads for good.

had been breaking the rules by paying play-
ers and recruits. The article led to threats
against the writers. —

‘When the NCAA came to Lexington,
they found a lot of tight-lipped alums and
unhappy fans but no proof.

There are many who firmly believe that
UK does cheat, including Indiana coach
Bobby Knight. Anyone who has seen
Knight in action or read last season’s best
selling A Season on the Brink knows that
Knight is possibly the smartest coach in the
nation.

Knight seems to enjoy bringing himself
back down to Earth as shown by his recent
display in a game against the Russian na-
tional team. First, he complained that the
Russians should not be allowed to prepare
for the Olympics by playing America’s best
teams. Then he brought them to Blooming-
ton to play his very own Hoosiers.

If this wasn’t enough, Knight then pro-
ceeded to pick up three technicals and pull
his team off the court with 15 minutes to
play and losing by.nearly 20 points.

Knight did later apologize to the fans for ©
not allowing them to see the last half of a
game in which they had probably lost i inter-
est anyway.

I’m not even going to mention Petts
Rico or “the chair.”

Finally, there’s North Carolina. While
I have never had any great love for the Tar
Heels, I have held them in high regard.
They are alwaysa force to bereckoned with
and a high-class organization. |

That is why I was shocked to see that two
of their most highly regarded players, J.R.
Reid and Steve Bucknall, had been charged
with assault. :

While I am sure that the two were pro-
voked into their escapades in that bar in
Raleigh, I still had to wonder if this was
really happening at UNC and not LSU,
Clemson, or UNLV.

I am still surprised that North Carolina
players spit in public, much less go to bars
in enemy territory. However, Smith did the .
right thing by suspending the two for the
Syracuse game.

The whole episode would be just a curi-
osity if not for the fact that Smith has almost
treated it with a holier-than-thou attitude.
Suspending the two was the j Just thing todo.
Smith should have just done it without feel-
ing free to comment on how his boys were
being picked on by young drunks at State,

If they are innocent, defend a . they
are onilty, suenend ther a1
