: EDITORIAL :
There has been an overwhelming response to the in-
naugural spring issue of ‘Inside Art’. Lots of contributions
have come in over the last week, and many people have
come forward with their ideas. Most importantly, people
have offered and shared their serious criticism regarding
the selection, layout and the new editorial policies. I really
appreciate this and thank everyone most sincerely!

However, some people expressed their view that some
of the editorial selection criteria is too acute and stringent.
It is not my purpose to impose standards on creativity and
art, but only to see as an editor that not “just anything”
which is submitted is printed irrespective of its quality. In
fact, I can personally vouch for the fact that a lot very good
writers and artists here were very apprehensive to submit
their works earlier purely because of the fact that they knew
that their stuff would be published regardless of its true
merit. This is a negative syndrome which prevents me from
receiving a lot of good material. Besides, considering that
both the literary magazines — the Davidson Miscellany
and Hobart Park having virtually become extinct, there is
no platform for the serious expression of arts and ideas for
the people. It is my desire to, at least partially, make ‘Inside
Art’. an alternative to the dead literary journals which are
still waiting to be excavated and restored.

It’s really an honor both for me and the rest of the edito-
rial staff to have received contributions from the members
of our faculty. This is probably the first time for anyone
other than Davidson students to have contributed. I am very
pleased that the readers have responded so positively.

Just to reiterate what I’d said last time: submissions are
preferred on diskettes which are compatible on the IBM PC
with one print-out copy of the written work. Send in your
entries to P.O.Box 4071, Davidson, NC 28036; or leave
them in the ‘Inside Art Box’ at the College Union Desk; or
drop it by my room (Sentelle 103). The submission dead-
line for the next issue is March 31.

It was a pleasure going through all the contributions this
time. I am looking foward to more submissions in the times

to come! &:
Yours truly,

SUDEEP SEN
Inside Art Editor

{| Brush and Ink on Rice Paper .

Alex Hayden

ZHOU ZHENGHUAN ’87 International Student, CHINA

and, point to Libra, He looks up Res
a full minute. He can’t understand —
my Hindi when I speak at last, and he turns
te says, “Sahib,” " pointing to his bowl, -
I’ve just spent my money, sol sive him
_ the two carrots in my. pocket.

He gives them back and smiles:
no teeth,”

JAMES PITTARD '87

