Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

1 shoved my wallet in the back pocket of my shorts, hung
my Vuarnets in the open neck of my rugby shirt and rana
hand over the scattered selection of tapes on my desk for
the third tine.

“Doug!” | bellowed, just as my roommate came
back in the room,

“Yeah?” He opened the fridge and helped himself to
one of my beers. “I just told Susan I thought you'd left.”

“Just as well. Where's my mixed tape?”

“Oh, Andy took it down to SAE.”

“Well did he bring it back? Go get it.” Doug shrug-
ged and ambled out of the room with an irritating lack of
interest. I could feel the tension climbing up the back of
my neck, waiting to start a migraine. I kicked the phone
across the room, walked over Doug's dirty clothes and
shouted down the hall for Andy. The music of my tape
drowned my words.

“My tape!" I demanded from his doorway. Andy
wus shooting pinto beans out the window with a sling
shot. Doug was sitting on the bed reading a comic book.

“Thanks a helluva lot, Doug.” I snapped, popping the
cassette out of the stereo myself.

“Have a good time,” he said calmly.

“Fuck you,” I answered, but was more annoyed
with myself by this time. It really wasn't his fault that I
was going home.

The phone was buzzing obnoxiously when I got back
to my room, and it rang just as I hung it up. It was Susan,
of course.

“Tab?” Her voice was strident, and I was glad I
couldn't see her face. “D-oug s-s-said you h-had g-g-g-
gone!” I swore to myself. | hadn't realized it meant this
much to her or I would have left earlier.

“I was looking for a tape. I’m on my way out the
door now.’

“Good,” she said, in that determined voice that
meant she was hell-bent on retrieving full control of her
words. Her next sentence was calm and slow and per-
fectly clear. “Then—I'm— coming — with —

you.”

“No,” I answered flatly, my stomach constricting
for something like the twelve hundredth time when |
thought of her with my father. “We've discussed this.
No.” I hung up before she had a chance to answer,
grabbed the dufel bag on the bed and ran down the hall
before the phone could ring again. I saw why when I got
out to the parking lot. Susan was sittin on the hood of my
car. That's what I get for dating a track star, I told my-
self, and almost mananged to be amused, Except that I
was gong home. “NO,” I repeated.

“You s-said I c-c-could m-m-meet y-your f-f-f-fam-
ily!” she accused angrily, and I wanted to lift her off the
car and just hold her until her thoughts could catch up
with her mouth. It would never, never work. I just
couldn't take her with me.

“I said you should have met my mother. She's
dead.” I recognized the familiar brutality, and I hated
myself for succumbing to my father's scare tactics.

“F-1-L-1 w-w-w-want t-t-t-to m-m-meet h-i-im.” 1
could see the tears in her eyes, and knew they were from
@ combination of her frustration with herself and her
anger with me. If she could ever perfect that as a ploy,
she could wrap me around her litile finger any moment
of any day.

“Susan,” I said wearily, meaning to try to explain,
but I had already given up in my mind, because, truth-
fully, lL wanted her with me: “Please don’t come.”

She realized, as I did, that I was no longer forbid-
ding her company, and she slid off the car to open the
door on the passenger side.

“Susan,” I managed, grabbing the door before she
closed it. guilt and relief were fighting each other in my
mind. “My father is not a nice, grandfather-like man.
He’s rough and coarse and bitter, and very hard to get
along with. He won't be nice to you.”

“G-Get in the car, Tab,” she said, smiling now.
“We're wasting time.” She already knew I wanted her to
come. Maybe she had known all along. I bent over and
kissed her briefly.

“Thanks,” 1 said, and closed the door for her. She
put a tape in as we left and moved her few things to the
back seat. It was a comfortable void of conversation. I
was secure with my knowledge that she would never ask
the stupid questions of stupid people. Questions like:
“Why do you hate your father?” She wouldn't suggest,

as a highschool girlfriend had once suggested, that I
should see a psychiatrist. And we wouldn't compare
childhoods — beyond that first night.

Our first meeting had been like some sort of torren-
tial cement,. throwing us inextricably into each others
lives. | had meant to meet Luty at the Union, but she was
sitting in the lounge with Mike — too close for me to be
anything but slighted, and I had left in a self-righteous
rage.

* would have missed her if she hadn’t let out a tear-
choked gasp just as | was passing the steps of Chambers.
She was huddled on the stone ledge to the far right, hid-
den by the bushes and the shadows. I paused, wavering
between the favor of leaving her to her private grief or
the somewhat dubious pleasure of having my shoulder to
cry on. I stopped because I didn’ t want to go back to my
room, because I was curious, because to find a girl cry-
ing on the front steps of Chambers at quarter of twelve
was so exquisitely out of place. I pretended I cared
deeply, but I didn't even know if I had ever seen her be-
ore.

f “Want to talk about it?” | asked, taking a seat on the

ledge. She stared at me with eyes that seemed unusually
dark and wide in the light that made her face a pale oval.
And she laughed.

“I-[-1 c-can’t ex-plain i-i-t t-t-o y y-ou. I-I d-d-d-
don't e-ven kn-ow y-y-you.” Her words were drowned
in the tears.

“So, I'd be the best person to explain it to, right?”
She had laughed; and I had begun to care. “Ifyou could
explain it to anyone you knew, you wouldn't be here,
right?” She nodded earnestly, still trying to catch her
breath. “My name’s — ”

“N-n-no,” she protested. “I-I-1 d-don’t kn-ow y-
you.”

PROOF

By KATHARINE T. ARMSTRONG

“Right.” I smiled, and I think now that I was caught
even then. She was several minutes into her explanation
before I realized that the stuttering was more than just
the usual tear-warped diction, and I don’t know what
possesed me to laugh at my mistake. “It’s just such an
arrogant assumption,” I tried to explain. “I kept trying
to figure out how I could comfort you, automatically as-
suming my grand nobility would have that affect.” Her
laughter joined mine, real laughter, because no one had
ever laughed with her about her speech impediment. It
was the first, and perhaps the most invaluable, lesson 1
would learn about her. Laughter, real laughter, with all
its accompanying emotions, vanquished the stutterer.

She talked calmly then about her mother, who had
died seven months before of Alzheimer’ s, and about why
she was crying now. She thought it would be hard to ex-
plain to me, but I understood it as a distortion of my own
life. My father ignored me, baited me, swore at me. I
had often wondered if some sort of disease preyed on his

mind, because I couldn’ t imagine my angel of a mother
marrying someone so possessed.

Yet she cried. An odd, pale girl with dark eyes and
dark parentheses of hair. She cried over someone who
had been unloving, often hateful, who had made her
days a very long torturous sampling of hell. She cried
for herself. Because-she was alone. Because she needed
someone who depended on her, someone she could love
despite everything. I took her hand in mine and told her
she could have my father.

I glanced at the girl in the passenger seat, and she
hummed along with the music obliviously. On the very
rare occasion that I actually believed my father didn’t
hate me, it was all because of Susan. With her stubborn
love for the mother of her childhood, she made me won-
der. I had tried for many nights to remember my father
as he had been when I was little, without the poisoning
memories of more recently. I could almost convice my-
self that he had loved me then, which meant he could not
hate me so thoroughly now. It was something I always
forgot when I let myself back in his house.

“Hello, Tommy,” he said levelly, without taking his
eyes away from the TV. “What the hell are you doing
home?”

“I'm a masochist, and if I don't have a completely
unpleasant weekend once a month I just don't feel
whole.” It came so easily, and wished it hadn't with the
look I got from Susan.

“You always were an insolent little bastard.” He
had called me that so many times that, at one point, I
thought I had found the reason for his hostility. Mom
had cried when I asked her, and he hadn’ t called me that

for the remaining years that she had lived.

“Dad, this is Susan Davenport.”

He looked up in genuine surprise. I hadn't brought
anyone home since Doug my freshman year.

“Who the hell told you you could make this into your
private hotel?”

“Susan, my father, Andrew Barton. What did Ellen
leave for dinner, Dad?”

“Not enough for three.” Which was bullshit, be-
cause our housekeeper always made spaghetti when I
was coming home. I went to the kitchen without speak-
ing to him again.

“We can go home tonight, if you want,” I told her,
stirring the tub of sauce through once and then getting
out the silverware.

“Why do you come home, Tab?” she asked softly,
opening the box of spaghetti Ellen had left on the
counter,

“Because it s twice as bad if I don’t. Freshman year
I didn't come home till Christmas, and the entire break
was miserable. If he can pick at me once a month, my life
is more bearable over all.” She turned on the burner for
the spaghetti and came to rub the tension out of my neck
with discerning fingers. “I love you,” I said, turning to
kiss her just as my father came in.

“Is sex all you can think about? Grubbing around in
the kitchen while your father starves to death? Why
don’t you put her to work, boy? Make yourself useful,
davenport!”

“The — water — is boiling, M-ister B-B-Barton,’
she answered, amiably enough, but it wouldn’thelp her. {

“What are you scared of, girl? A little work?” I felt
like a traitor. Did she know that anything I said in her
defense would only make things worse?

“N-n-no, s-3-s-sir.” She smiled at him. “Of c-
course not. I - go —- to —- Davidson.”

“Oh a wise ass as well as a retard! Where did you |_
dig this one up, Tommy?” I lunged for him, and 1 swear :
if I had gonen hold of his throat I don't know what I ° ||
would have done.

“Tab!” Susan screamed, grabbing my arm. He was
grinning like a demon.

“I should have known that any boy with the name of
some soft drink wouldn't have the guts to throw his
punch.” It was one of his favorite taunts, one of the few
he could never catch me with. I liked my name. It was
one part of me he had never touched because of his stub-
born insistence on calling me Tommy. “You wanta hit
me, boy? Go ahead. Give it your best shot and then Fil
finish you off.”

“Ex-cuse m-e.” Susan crossed between us to the
stove. “The - w-water is b-boiling.”

“Now there’s a woman who knows her place,” he
said in satisfaction. I didn't like the way, he looked at
her. “If she wasn’t a retard, you could marry a woman
like that.” Susan glanced at me in alarm; I could feel my
face turning red. He was watching me, too. It was my

own fault. He realized he had found something really
classic to bait me with and he wasn’ t going to let it go.
“If my son wasn’t a wimp, he wouldn’ t let me talk to you
that way, retard.” He was still watching me closely, as
was Susan.

“A — real — man — doesn't have to rise to hollow
taunts,” she said, slowly, but with surprising clarity,

He turned on her with a sudden frightening animos-
ity. “Were you making a fool of me, girl?” I thought he
was going to hit her, and I was between them before she
could answer.

“No one’s making more of a fool of you than you
are, Dad.”

“1-1-1 st-t-t-tutter wh-en 1-T m ag-g-g-itated, M-Mis-
ter B-B- Barton.”

“Do | agitate you, honey?”

“I-I-1 g-guess y-y-ou m-must, s-sir.”

“Well, I'm really sorry about that, ‘cause you're
such a pretty thing.” I felt sick. How in the name of God
had my mother ever loved this man? How had I ever
loved him.

“You're a bastard, Dad. Sit down Susan, I'll finish
with the spaghetti.”

He sat with her at the kitchen table, and I watched
them warily, but nothing happened. Her speech re-
turned to normal, and he was on his best behavior. Did
he intend to impress her now with his reform so that she

Continued to page 23

