“Laura?”

“Yes?”

“How could you get felt up at 12? You didn’t even
have a bra then, did you? And didn't you worry about
getting dirty? Places like that are never clean — all

One night we came home, after a night of dancing,
and lit candlles in my living room. I put arecord on, and
we listened to the music and talked in flickering whis-
pers. I fell asleep, slowly, on the sofa, talking about
Peter.

“Emma, wake up.”

I heard her from a long way away. I opened my eyes
cautiously, but it was still night. The candles were still
burning. I had just dozed off for a few minutes.

“Em, are you awake?”

“Um-m-mm.”

“T have to tell you something important. Emma, are
you listening?” .

T sat up, slowly, and stretched. I felt warm and
close. “Sure I'm listening.”

“I don’t ever bring any of the Irresistibles home be-
cause they don't interest me.”

“Surprise, surprise ... they wouldn’t interest a
Starving prostitute, and we both know it. Did you wake
me up to tell me that?”

Her eyes were fixed on the floor, which was unusual.
she normally stared straight at me when she had some-
thing to say. “Men don't interest me.”

I sat very still, pretending I hadn't heard. “What
was that?”

“I said men don’t interest me. I’m gay. A lesbian.”

“No, you're not.” | said it directly, without thought.
“This is a joke, right?” She said nothing. “Be real,
Laura. Your hair is longer than mine. You’ re one of the
most beautiful women I’ ve ever met — ” Did I imagine
it, or did her eyes pick up when I said that? “ — and
there’s no reason to waste it. No reason at all. Don’t be
ridiculous.”

“It's not a waste. I love women. They're just as
worthwhile loving as men.”

“Then why do we always go to these awful pickup
Joints, if you aren’t interested in men?” I was afraid of
the answer.

“I don’t usually go places like that. But I couldn't
take you any of the places where I dance — people know
me, and I didn’t think you’ d understand. I didn't think
you’ d understand that I fall in love with women.”

“No, you don’t.” My voice was rising. “This is just
a stage or something, hon. Look, I can get you an ap-
pointment with a fantastic psychiatrist who my father
used to go to —”

“I don't need adcctor.” Her eyes are up, bright and
challenging. “I m happy with what lam.”

“Happy as a sick person? As a pervert? Laura, be
reasonable.”

“I love you.” Her hair gleamed darkly in the
candlelight.

My stomach turned to ice. 1 wasn't sure what to do.
Was I safe? Would she attack me? Something within me
scoffed: she's slept over a hundred times and never
touched you. Nothing has changed. She just had a bad
experience or something.

“Emma?”

My mind turned with furious speed. What should I
do?

“I love you.” She put her hand up to my face.

“No you don't!” I screamed. “You don’t! Youcan't!
Get away from me! Get out of my house!” I knew what
perverts were liké. | read the papers, I saw what hap-
_ pened in prisons and daycare centers. It was sick. It
wasn't natural. It wasn’ t love. It was all sex. Everybody
knew that.

My best friend, Laura.

“Emma — " she was crying. 1 didn’t care. She had
betrayed me.

“Do you stare at me when I’m undressing? Is that
why you come over hére? To look at me when I'm not no-
ticing? Do you come into the bathroom when I’ m taking
a shower? OhGod . . .” I was crying and shouting. 1
felt the beginnings of hate forming in my frozen body.

“GET OUT!”

1 don't know how long it was before I noticed that
she was gone.

“Emma?”

a |

I didn’t want to answer. I had picked the phone up
out of habit. It’s funny, how hard old habits die. I didn't
really want to answer the phone, because I knew that, no
matter who it was, I didn’t want to talk. But as it rang,
my muscles reacted with.a thoughtless jump, and I an-
swered before I knew what I was doing.

“Emma, are you there?” It was Peter.

My mind worked with a detachment that was fright-
ening. I felt nothing at the sound of the voice. He rasped.
I felt as if | heard the sounds of bones being playfully
knocked together.

“Yes, I’m here.”

“Well, for God's sake, next time say something
when you answer the phone. I thought I was talking to a
thief.”

My head nodded almost imperceptibly in agree-
ment. The things we think of when not thinking . . .

“Emma? Are you listening?”

“Yes.”

“Come to dinner with me tonight?”

i or

“Come on. You could use the break.”

He didn't specify just what I needed the break from. 1
had the sudden feeling of looking over a cliff, at water
dashing against the side of stone with violent silence.

“All right.”

He picked me up about two hours later. Maybe he
sensed that something was wrong — that I wasn't “my-
self’. Actually, I was becoming more myself every few
seconds, like a tree in autumn. The leaves were fallir;
from me, fluttering slowly to the ground. I was stripping
myself to the branches, black and barren, preparing for
the winter that I knew was coming. There was no ques-
tion of migration. I didn’t want to leave. I wanted to
drop the flame yellow husks that clung to me, the colors
of fire in the center of a candle. They dripped off me. I
was left. I alone. Black and bare and hard from a
hundred winters previous. Unrecognizable.

