Fear is the first thing | remember from that night.
“Emma,” she whispered, over and over. | wasn’t inter-
ested. I didn’t want to hear.

“Emma, wake up. Emma.”

Her name was Laura. | knew her from nowhere, and
she was beautiful. We were friends from the first time I
spilled coffee on her outside the 7-Eleven on First
Street. She hopped up and down on her unburned leg
yelling “shit that’s hot!” and I tried to look sympathetic
and ended up laughing. I lived down the street and of-
fered her my house, my bandaids, a cup of coffee that
she cou{d drink instead of wear. Did | mention she was
beautiful? That had a lot to do with it. It's really quite
easy to ask a, perfect, perfectly beautiful woman into
your house. She wasn't going to rape me. She wasn't
going to rob me. She wasn't even angry at me for spil-
ling a large cup of 7-Eleven kerosene coffee on her.

“I don't usually ask strangers in—" 1 said,
apologetically.

“Pm not a stranger..['m a victim,” she grinned.
“You do this often?”

\
“Actually, no. I don't usually spill coffee on total

strangers either. Most of my friends I meet at parties, ar

bars, or work.” | was yelling from the kitchen, making

coffee. | put the pot in the coffee maker and walked back.
into the living room. “I don’t assault them outside the

local 7-Eleven.” —

“Fate,” she said, and smiled again. “I never go into
7-Eleven. I was desperate — I have to stay awake to
drive home tonight.” She lived in a suburb about 30
miles from the center of the city. “I would have been
weaving all the way home without some caffeine. 7-Ele-

ven and Holiday Inn are two places that are my absolute
last resorts in life.”

“Why Holiday Inn?” I asked, innocently. I didn't
know Laura well enough yet to know that discretion with
her was a matter of never asking her the wrong question.

“If you definitely can’t make it home without some-

thing to eat, you go to 7-Eleven. If you definitely don't
want to be seen with someone, you go to Holiday Inn.
It’s easier anyway — you never have to clean the sheets
or make breakfast. And I keep waking up with people I
don't want to cook for. You know?”

That was the beginning.

We went dancing often. Laura loved to dance. We
would walk into a bar, and she would turn heads from
every corner of the room. People asked her to dance all
night long — men of every description:—And she
laughed with them, and danced, and bought her own
drinks. But at the end, we always ended up dancing to-
gether. She waited until the music was so loud that she
could yell into my ear, and then the comments started:

“ — and he started breathing.in my ear, and talking
about this black leather waterbed — seriously, he
did — ” She had this list called the Irresistibles, the five
worst geeks of the evening. The leather waterbed was
definitely up there. There was the one with the mastiff —

“He promised it was as big as he was. God, he was so
drunk that only the dog would have gotten it up any-
way” — and the bald one with “every vibrator known to
man (I didn’t ask him how many men actually know a

' vibrator) and some sort of wooden African fertility god
too” and a procession of others who vied for d slot on the
list.

I was living alone, down the street from that 7-Ele-
ven that I mentioned. l remember the first night that she
stayed —

“Jesus, Emma, I’ m bushed. That red-haired guy —

”
_—

“The one with the wig?”

She grinned. ;‘It kept slipping while he was dancing.
Every few minutes, it was ‘Can I get you a. drink?’ and
off he went to the bar, tugging at his head the whole way.
I got 6 drinks in 45 minutes.”

“So you're worn out from that?”

“I'm worn out from trying to dodge him before he
got back. 1 kept trying to blend into the crowd, and he

found me every time. 1 think he was an accountant.
Didn't he look like an accountant to you? Kind of
fluorescent tan, you know what I mean?”

“Laura, do you ever+go home with any of these
guys?”

__ “What, the Yrresistibles? I'd rather get a yeast infec-
tion in my mouth.”

There.was never any point to being serious with
Laura if she wasn't in the mood. It was like trying to ride
a horse into a wall.

“Can I crash here for the night?”

Ce tlt oe em

a . zo

.

ne

“Sure.” I offered her half of a double bed,. but she
took the couch.

* Work was the only way to move out from my parents’
house. So | worked. But | knew it was qnly temporary,
because sooner or later I would start dating the right
man and-then we would kiss and then we would make
love and then we would get married and then — well, it
sort of blurred into a haze of children and station wag-
ons (maybe a Volvo) and a part-time job and a secure
middle and old age.

I'd never been to a singles bar before I met Laura. 1
knew that I couldn’ t meet the sort of man I was looking
for somewhere like that. She didn’ t go to them that often,
but it always seemed as if the places that played good
dance music came with a ready-made supply of men
(and women) on the make. Laura danced and laughed
and sparkled all night, then eluded them all and went
home. Or came home with me.

She looked like a wolf, dancing. Her eyes were dark
as night, and her hair was black and shiny, hanging well
below her shoulders. She moved like a wild witch. A
dark predator who for some reason never caught any-
thing,

“Emma, how long have you been seeing him?”

“Peter? I guess about 4 months now. He's really
sweet. He works at Merrill Lynch.” Was that part of an
explanation?

“He seems pretty nice.” Laura was slicing an apple,
not looking at me. Her voice was a little strained, I
think. She paused, with a knife buried in the red skin.
“What makes you happy with him?”

“Well, he’s gentle, for one thing. And he won' t give’
me any diseases. | mean, you'd never meet him in the
‘Paradise’ .” ;

“And you'd never take him to the Holiday Inn,” she
laughed.

|
IN THE BEGINNING

A Short Story by
LAETA KALOGRIDIS ’87

] laughed too. But I wanted to explain: “Really, he is
kind and gentle and understanding — I can talk to him,
not just get in bed with him.”

She looked at me. “Emma, you pure little thing, I
didn’ t think you did things like that.”

I may actually have been blushing. “Well, now you
know. I think,” I said this quietly, almost afraid of the
words, “that he might be — you know, looking for a
wife.”

Laura was staring at me now. “Would you want to
get married?”

“Tm not going to spend my life working in a depart-
ment store, if that’s what you mean.”

“You don't have to get a husband to do something
about that,” she pointed out. “You could get another
job.” Laura sometimes missed the point. [tried to be pa-
tient. I often wondered if she had ever been in love.
Sure, having my own money was nice, but I didn’t see
the point in investing the time and money into a more in-
teresting career, only too quit my job when I got pre-
gnant. And I knew that I didn’t want my child in a day-
care center, not after all the things that happen to chil-
dren from sexual perverts in those places.

“Maybe I’m actually interested in a marriage.”

“Seriously? Are you going to change the name and
wear the ring and all that stuff?”

“Why not?”

“You couldn't pay me to give up my name to some-
one else. I'm not a cow. I don't need a brand.”

! was surprised at the violence in her voice. “Oh
come on, Laura. It's a sign of love and commithent, not
a dog collar.”

“So he can take my name.” silence. “If it's really

just a sign like you say, he should be able to give up his
name

Laura held up a purple furry slipper and eyed it criti-
cally. “I actually said that investment bankers were
somewhere between capitalist pigs and imperialist
slime. So take the money and run — what's he going to
do with it but opppress the masses?” ~

“You're elitist scum,” | said. “Come to think of it,
you're intellectual leftist elitist scum.” I stuck out my
tongue at her.

“I should never have taught you to talk,” she said,
and swatted me with the slipper.

Laura very slowly became the best friend | had ever
had. She gave up sleeping on the couch when she stayed
over and slept double with me in the bed.

I wish that I could tell stories, but Laura was the
writer, not me. I can barely tell stories to myself, any-
more. I never can remember the right way to end them.
Lately, I’ve started to forget some of the other details
too. Funny little things stick in my head — all the jokes
and games, very little of the serious things. What did we
talk about at night, whispering secrets until the sun
came up? I know that I had never found anyone else to
hear the things I had to say. I didn’t have to hide from
Laura.

When I was ten, a teenage boy ran over my puppy,
Tex. He was a baby retriever, really my father's dog,
but I loved him and washed him and fed him and treated
him like he was mine. My dad was a policeman, and lots
of the kids in the neighborhood didn’t like him. He had
arrested this boy's brother the week before, something
to do with cars but I don’t remember exactly what. SO
this boy comes screaming by our house in a grey pickup
truck and runs over Tex as he’s standing in the drive-
way, wagging his tail. The kid had to pull over the curb
to get him. “YAA-A-A-A KID!” He yelled at me.
“HOW'S YOUR OLD MAN, KID? WANT A DOG

SANDWICH?”

Laura put her arms around me while I cried, remem-
bering a crushed little animal moving feebly on the
sidewalk. I had screamed and screamed, even now |
scream in my sleep sometimes. Silly, getting hysterical
about a dog. But after all, it was the first murder I’ dever
seen.

Laura tistened. Peter had so much to think about;
his job was so complicated and demanding that he had
little time to let himself enjoy life. At night, when we ate
dinner or went to bed or watched TV, we usually talked
about his career. Sometimes we made plans for the fu-
ture — those evenings were the best ones. We planned
what sort of house we would have, and how many kids,
and where we could send them to school; we talked
about the kind of car we would buy, and the neighbor-
hood that we would move into. Peter never played
games with me. I always knew where I stood. He ap-
proached me like everything else in his life: deliber-
ately. He was a stable, serious man.-I was careful to
show him that I was stable and serious too. But most of
the time he thought about his work, and so that’s what
we talked about. After all, he was going to support all
our plans — ifhe was successful, our life together could
work.

Anyway, I thought I knew where I stood.

Laura was the one who listened. I wondered how she
could worry so little about her own future. She wasn’t
getting any younger, but she never worried about find-
ing herself a man. We had nothing in common. And yet,
when I sat in bed with her at 3 a.m. on a Saturday night,
giggling, I found myself telling her secrets that I had for-
gotten I had. And she listened to every word.

“And then — he kissed me!”

“No way. You were only 12!"

“I started early.”

“Come on, admit it,” Laura insisted. “It was a
smooch — I bet it wasn’t even a french kiss.”

“Laura! I was only in 7th grade!”

“Well, you started this, Ms. Experience. So was ita

french kiss or not?”

I tried attacking instead of retreating. “What were
you doing when you were 12? Hm-mm-mm?”

“Getting felt up under the football bleachers. | was
an early bloomer myself.”

