10

From the mail

Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“How many points for a field goal in the NFL?”

By CARTER GARRET
‘and ROB GRZESZCZAK

The diversity of the world of sports was
clearly exemplified this past holiday week
by the many different games taking place.
The professional and college football sea-
sons are winding down, as bowl pictures are
taking shape. Basketball is back, as the
Lakers have come out charging in the NBA
and the Tar Heels from Chapel Hill look
strong in the college sector. Hockey is also
underway, believe it or not, and stuff like

‘golf and tennis never ends. So what does all

this mean? It means that our desks have
been inundated with letters concerning the

vast world of sports. Let’s take a look at

some of these interesting questions submit-
ted to us.

Q: “What has happened to the AFC
East?” -Molly Cochran ’89, Athens, GA.

Good question, Molly. With Buffalo,
Indianapolis, and the Jets on top of this ex-
potent division, some experts can only
grope for an answer to this perplexing

BASKETBALL, from p. 9

impressive 6-3 freshman guard, when he
leaped half way up the backboard, caught
the ball with one hand and jammed it home
on his way down.

Over 6500 fans showed up to see the
Davidson-Duke game in the Charlotte
Coliseum on Wednesday night, and they
witnessed a basketball clinic by the Blue
Devils. The Duke team was red-hot from
the start, using a swarming full court pres-
sure defense to force turnovers leading to
easy fast break baskets.

By the end of the first half, Duke had
taken a 54-24 lead and subsequently re-
moved the home fans from the game. The
Duke defense forced 30 turnovers, leading
to 14 steals and numerous fast break lay-
ups.

College Football

Five Duke players scored in double dig-
its, with Alaa Abdelnaby leading the way
with 19, including 13 from the line, Kevin
Strickland 18, John Smith 18, Greg Koubek
13, and Danny Ferry 12. Quinn Snyder lead

Duke with 9 assists and a surprising 2 |

blocked shots, and Koubek added a game-
high 8 rebounds.

Four Davidson players set in double-
digits, with Maurice Gray scoring 17,
Himes 14, Schmitt 10, and Edward
“Magic” Gaines 10. For the second straight
game Rucker did not score in double-fig-
ures (only 8 points), and his 7 rebounds, 7
assists, and 2 steals were offset by 11 turn-
overs. Coach Bobby Hussey noted that the
bright spot in the mismatch was the play of
sophomores Gray, Gaines, and Schmitt.

The Cats return to the Coliseum Saturday
night in the annual Hornet’s Nest contest
against UNC-C.

oddity. But we think we know what’s going
on here, and it’s a little deeper than some
might believe. For starters, one of us (the
one who lives in New Hampshire) recently
wrote a letter to Pete Rozelle, the Commis-
sioner of the NFL. This letter went unan-
swered. In addition, our calls placed to Pete
Rozelle in the past week have gone ignored.
So we put two and two together and discov-
ered that the league has conspired against
the Dolphins and the Patriots, the perennial
contenders, in favor of the perennial pre-
tenders. There you have it. Thanks, Molly.

Q: “In golf’s annual event known as “The
Skins Game,’ whatexactly are the ‘skins’?”
-Jacques Vauclain ’90, Villanova, PA.

Well, Jacques, Webster tells us that skin
is “the external, limiting layer of an animal
body, especially when forming a tough but
flexible cover, relatively impermeable
from without while intact.” Thanks for
writing, Jacques, and don’ thesitate todo so
again.

Q: “Does the hockey season really have
abeginning oranend?” -ReidChisolm ’90,
Asheboro, NC.

Witty question, Reid, but come on, of
course it does. Although some think the
NHL stands for “Never-ending Hockey
League,” they really do have an off-season,
specifically from mid-June through Sep-
tember.

Q: “Whose house provided the setting for
CBS’ Thanksgiving Day edition of “The

Submitted for your approval: bowl

By WHIT WILKS

Once again it’s that time of the year- time
for being with family and friends to cele-
brate the holidays. For the serious college
football fan, its also time to be joyous, as
over the next three weeks there will be no

less than 17 games to watch before, during, -

and after those delicious meals. So without
any further adieu, here are my picks for
these contests, some of them being impor-
tant and some of them only mattering to the
schools involved. California: San Jose St.
in a rout over E. Michigan.

Independence: Washington goes into
Tulane country and smothers The Green
Wave.

All-American: Obviously a sentimental
pick for this Native Wahoo, and thanks to

_ the combination of Scott Secules and a
weak BYU secondary, I won’t be disap-
pointed.

Sun: West Virginia played well down the
stretch and led Syracuse with thirty seconds

to play, but Oklahoma State’s only losses
were to Oklahoma and Nebraska, so look
for a Cowboy win.

Aloha: UCLA feels it should be in the
Rose Bow! and looks to take out its anger on
Florida. Troy Aikmann’s day will be sunny
as he picks apart a young Gator defense and
Ken Norman will hold Emmitt Smith under
100 yards.

Liberty: In Arkansas’ only tests of the ©

season they were destroyed by Miami and
soundly whipped by Texas A & M.
Georgia’s running game will slaughter the
Hogs.

Holiday: Iowa simply has too much tal-
ent for Wyoming, the WAC champion.

Freedom: Arizona State tries to rebound |

after tying arch-rival Arizona. In an upset,
Air Force’s wishbone shreds the Devil
defense.

Gator: South Carolina faces LSU in what
shapes up to be the second best of all the
bowl matchups (the Orange has to take top

billing). The Bengal defense is SEC tough,
but it won’t be able to adapt to the Rifle arm
of Todd Ellis. Sterling Sharpe is certainly a
first round NFL pick for the Gamecocks.

Bluebonnet: Craig Heyward runsall over
asmall Texas defense to lead Pitt to victory.

Citrus: Sorry all you Tiger fans, but
Rodney Williams has nochance against Joe
Paterno’s Nittany Lions. Penn State beat
Miami last year and Williams is not half the
quarterback Vinny Testaverde is. ;

Fiesta: Bobby Bowden regrets going for
two now because he should be playing for
the national title instead of against Ne-
braska. FSU makes the most of it, though,
and wins by seven.

Cotton: Heisman winner Tim Brown
makes up for a lousy game against Miami,
and the Irish whip A&M.

Sugar: Don McPherson shows he is head
and shoulders above Jeff Burger, and The
Orangemen wrap up an undefeated season
against Auburn.

NFL Today’?”
Houston, TX

Ahh, Jay, we see that you too were de-
ceived by CBS’ expertly constructed stage
set that provided that “homey” look for the
holidays. Although it may have looked like
areal house, it was just an artificial set. Did
that fireplace fool you?

Q: “Are there special rules governing the
passing game in college’s Big Eight Con-
ference?” -B. Switzer, Norman, OK

This question brings up a touchy situ-
ation, as you might well know, B. Some
experts believe that there is a sort of unwrit-
ten “code of honor” among Big Eight
coaches that considers passing rude and out
of line. We, however, tend to think that it’s
an agricultural sort of thing, and that play-
ing exciting football out in that part of the
country might upset the ‘balance of their
world.

-Arthur J. Hurt, III ’88,

Q: “How many points are awarded for a
field goal in the NFL?” -Chris Ruffner ’90,
Hickory, NC :

As writers of ahalf-way fegitimate Sports
column, we inquire as to the seriousness of

_ your question and also wonder whether or ~

not you’re a true sports fan. You sound like
the type of guy who wears an Atlanta
Braves cap but changes the subject to the
Hawks whenever the Braves get railed on.

Three points for a field goal, eo
for you.

picks

Rose: The Big Ten never wins in Pasad-
ena, and this year will be no exception.
Rodney Peete throws USC past Michigan
St. and Lorenzo White.

Hall of Fame: Alabama faces Michigan
in a (battle?) of two teams that really do not
want to be here. The Tide will roll.

Peach: Tennessee stops Indiana, and all
Hoosiers turn to Assembly Hall for winter
excitement.

Orange: THE BIG ONE- Oklahoma vs.
Miami for the national championship. The
Sooners manhandled a superb Nebraska
team like it was nothing, and The Canes:
struggled against the likes of Va. Tech and
Toledo. This will be a great game, but look
for Barry Switzer to outcoach Jimmy
Johnson (something that is not too hard to
do) as the Sooners get revenge for losses the
past two years.

There you have it, my picks for the smor-
gasbord of games. I’m not The Greek, so
don’t bet the house on any of the matchups.

Text of Meetze’s statement concerming complex construction

t

I realize that we have a few faculty members who
are very critical of the location and planning for our
new parking lot adjacent to the Baker Sports Center.
Their criticism is mainly directed as follows: (1) There
was not enough information given to adjacent property
owners, faculty, and other members of the college fam-
ily conceming the scope of the project prior to begin-
ning construction; (2) Inadequate planning of the
parking lot to save more trees; (3) Disregard of the
environment.

Regarding the first item above, we were negligent in
discussing the scope of this parking lot with individual
property owners, however, it was approved by their
elected officials of the Town Board as the Architectural
Appearance Committee approved the plans. In fact an
earlier plan to open Thompson Street was revised

because of concerns by Town Officials. Thompson -

Street was not opened and the entrance on Woodland
modified to accommodate emergency vehicles. This
week, we invited individual property owners to review
our plans. Five property owners met with us and we ex-
plained how the landscape architect will provide ever-
green screening, etc. Over the past five years the
faculty has had several opportunities to view the loca-
tion of this parking lot. Also on several occasions the
faculty has been invited to presentations describing the
Sports Complex project as well as overall long range
en

parking has been planned for the area in question since
1969 when an outside consulting firm of landscape
architects and planners were paid $40,000 to develop a
plan forthe campus. For the past two years all new in-
coming faculty. members have been given this slide
presentation. During the dedication of the Sports
Complex architectural renderings were shown indicat-
ing the landscaped appearance of the parking lot. ”

Criticism stating that we have not had enough pro-
fessional planners working with us on this project is not
justified. We have had many professional planners
working. with us on this project and their fees are a
substantial part of the overall cost. The fact that this
planning is not agreeable to those so vocal in their
criticism should not suggest that we have gone without
professional advice.

The suggestion that we have not considered the
environment in our planning is without foundation. All
plans have been inspected and approved by gover-
ment authorities concemed with all environmental
protection factors and the list is considerable.

Among the factors influencing our decision to lo-.

cate this parking lot as an extension of Woodland Road
are the following: (A) Aesthetics, (B) Location as this
space relates to various campus functions; (C) Long
range planning for future buildings, etc.; (D) Topog-
raphy; (E) Cost.

From the standpoint of aesthetics it was not possible

to incorporate many existing trees in the parking layout
because of the topography. The middle of the area is
approximately 35 feet lower than the boundary. This
means that to use this area as a parking lot we would
either have to cut trees or fill around their roots; in
either case they would die. Because of this we decided
to properly drain the area, fill with good topsoil, and

then relandscape with perimeter screening and new -

trees within islands in the parking lot.

As we attempt to plan for the best learning environ-
ment it is our intention to keep parking, when possible,
on the perimeter of the campus. The location of this
parking lot meets this criterion. It is nearmain campus
activities satisfying the needs of many faculty mem-

_,, bers and administrators who often complain of too few

parking spaces. In this location it can serve parking for
spectator events as well as day- to
students, faculty, and staff. From the standpoint of long
range planning, we have also considered the proximity
of this parking lot for future buildings.

We have already mentioned topography in discuss-
ing aesthetics and it was also necessary for us to
consider topography in determining the best use of this
area because of erosion, unstable soil, and other factors
making it an undesirable building site.

Criticism has also suggested that we have been

unwilling to pay the cost of proper landscaping to save »

more trees. Cost has always been a necessary consid-

-day parking for .~

eration in all decisions for this project for two very

important reasons. First, it was necessary to reduce the
total project cost by $1,000,000 before approval was
given for this project. Second, an immediate cash flow
problem with fundraising necessitated borrowing
funds in order to insure that this project could be started
and completed before September 1989. Cost, there-
fore, will remaina great influence as we attemptto keep
debt service as low as possible. We have, therefore,
carefully considered the parking lot as well as other
aspects of this project from a cost standpoint and will
continue to do so. This does not mean that we have
sacrificed a good landscape plan for this area.

We welcome criticism as a catalyst to insure the
positive outcome of every project, however, we do feel
that there are some facts about Planning for our Sports
‘Complex that should be known as the tone of criticism

‘is developed. Efforts are being made to inform all

residents in the area about what to further expect as the
project develops. A special invitation is given to any
faculty member, student, or anyone in the college
family to stop by my office and discuss the progress of
the Baker Sports Complex.

Grover Meetze
‘Director of Facilities Planning i
