| - |
bh BATT 2 ONCE UPON A TIME Inside Art

at ( for Gail Gibson ) ~

E& eae There were wise men once. 6
ear at °c We search for their bones now

and the places where they walked

F & aA - is 5 » have become shrines.

We stand quietly, baring our heads

Ya é44 oe ae and mark the names inwardly.

Monday, March 30, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN—

We commit to memory words that they have spoken. : EDITORIAL:
We chip pieces of their stones There has been an overwhelming response to the in-
z +h 4 and carry them in our pockets as talismans. naugural spring issue of ‘Inside Art’. Lots of contributions
Aes x TJ have come in over the last week, and many people have
2, ql e We hope for truth beyond the numbered pieces come forward with their ideas, Most importantly, people
f P at of our days, and we turn to the old story. have offered and shared their serious criticism regarding
WM; 4K] HUA “Once upon atime” we say, there were wise men the selection, layout and the new editorial policies. I really
. and shepherds who came to see the child appreciate this and thank everyone most sincerely!
ij A born of Mary. However, some people expressed their view that some
. of the editorial selection criteria is too acute and stringent.
a . , 8
’ . BX. > 5K The unnamed sculptor holds the mystery in his stone, It is not my purpose to impose standards on creativity and
as the child fully formed art, but only to see as an editor that not “just anything”
4 A GOLFER in Chinese script. stand’ s in his mother’s womb. which is submitted is printed irrespective of its quality. In
~~" He speaks fact, ‘I can personally vouch for the fact that a lot very good
Ft ¥ ra =) ut and the stone carries his silent words. writers and artists here were very apprehensive to submit
we r . We wait his wisdom. We carry the strength their works earlier purely because of the fact that they knew
Fede: AF from the stone to our wandering hearts. that their stuff would be published regardless of its true
merit. This is a negative syndrome which prevents me from
TAT DREAMS LIFTED FROM THE DEPTHS Then the green typhoon of Reformation. receiving a lot of good material. Besides, considering that
; : Dreams lifted from the depths Black gowned Calvinists batter images of God both the literary magazines — the Davidson Miscellany
Al Fy 76 Instances and moments caught in between and the saints to broken dust. and Hobart Park having virtually become extinct, there is
HK: + The blackness of fearing to know Shrines once filled with pilgrims no platform for the serious expression of arts and ideas for
And the blackness of not wanting to know grow only ivy over broken stone. the people. It is my desire to, at least partially, make, ‘Inside
Later, ina calmer time, these walls become Art’. an alternative to the dead literary journals which are
Fragments lifted dreams like fossils houses and apartments where people dwell still waiting to be excavated and restored.
Mate F ba 3) The coelacanth was a hideous slick wet blue invoking the spirit of the past for protection. i Seeally an honor both for me and the rest of the edito-
S . Thin _ rial staff to have received contributions from the members
; BAKE %) ” Hf ing chains The sculptor’s work emerges, hidden for centuries, of our faculty. This is probably the first time for anyone
ey “| Dredged up on bending chai ip g . ;
, From bottomless pool and an impossibly distant age. under the church floor. other than Davidson students to have contributed. Iam very
A- PUIeo9 Men stand in line and marvel at its workmanship. pleased that the readers have responded so positively.
_ Its b ody cr usted thick with time They gaze at its figures Just to reiterate what I'd said last time: submissions are
43} te And glistening out of cold vacuity and believe nothing. preferred on diskettes which are compatible on the IBM PC
With eves telling, revealing nothing. with one print-out copy of the written work. Send in your
@%e ®@ Famine stalks the land. entries to P.O.Box 4071, Davidson, NC 28036; or leave
e@ Yd] @ The vision of one known long ago Children with swollen bellies and seared them in the ‘Inside Art Box’ at the College Union Desk; or
@o A porcelain Geisha doll of unnatural beauty; lids raise their hands for help. drop it by my room (Sentelle 103). The submission dead-
e @ @ Disturbing in a subtle way — unseen Muscular men chew their flesh line for the next issue is March 31.
4 8 : and litter the roads It was a pleasure going through all the contributions this
@ @ Yet unheard ; plea & | aetieale >
® @ @ Like a strained whistle on a winding rail track with their small bones. time. Iam looking foward to more submissions in the times
@ to come!
@ ; D4 I stand naked against the autumn wind We turn and turn .
@ Which sings a misted song arriving in the dust of our own track. Yours truly,
@  d @ And ignore the ruminations of the wind.
Once upon atime SUDEEP SEN
> 7 , )
: JOHN M. GILELIKIN ’89. a child was born Inside Art Editor
@

and wise men came
there were wise men once upon a time

ANTHONY S. ABBOTT
Professor, Dept.of English

A GOLFER

He throws the club

over his shoulder

And with eyes half shut
Follows the ball cutting
Through the air in a curve

A bird

Passing through thin mist
Drops abruptly

Down into pine woods
Wings flapping a while
Dies

He descends the grass knoll

- Ina mirror of pootp-———_
There exists
A lonely white cloud

The dark and deep woods

Conceal from sights poisonous weeds
But on the way behind him

Appear clusters of

Milky white roses

He has found finally

Just where the bird has fallen
aes There lies

ee His golf ball

ou,
oir.

ZHENGUAN ZHOU ’87.

. af
A Pencil Sketch ERIC PETERSON ’89 International Student, CHINA.

