~ Welcome Back, Alumni!

The

Davidsonian

Volume LXXVIII, Number 4

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina, 28036 Saturday, October 10, 1987

Downtown facelift nears completion

By JOHN BARROW
Davidson Town officials have announced
that the town’s million-dollar Downtown

Revitalization Plan will be completed by No--
vember 1.

, According to town Treasurer Bill Brannon,
workers have almost finished sidewalk con-
struction on Main Street and will soon begin
the final phase of work on Depot Street.

“It’s areal mess rightnow, but when con-
struction is finished, our town will really
look good,” notes Brannon.

The Revitalization Plan results from sev-
eral years of development and planning.
Primary components of the plan include the
construction of municipal parking lots, in-
stallation of benches and trash receptacles, as
wellasnew landscaping.

The most visible sign of the project has
been the replacement of the old 1920’s con-
crete sidewalks with brick sidewalks,
thereby strengthening Davidson’s claim to
be the “brick capital of the world.” ;

Workers completed the first phase of the
plan several years ago. That phase, which
centered around the then-new Post Office,
created new parking and the Nancy McCor-
mac Plaza in front of the Post Office. In
addition, the town moved the old Hattie
Thompson House off Main Street to anew
location in a residential neighborhood.

The second phase, currently under con-
struction, involves the new sidewalks on
Main Street, sidewalks behind Main Street
stores, and the addition of 79 new parking
spaces. The walkway behind the stores will

Man on move: Ken Krieg

: attract new businesses to the area.

be called Knox Court, and several stores plan
tohave entrances thatopenontoit. _
_ After the sidewalks are completed, work-
ers will install new lighting, benches, and
trash cans. They also will plant trees along
Main Street.

In addition to the aesthetic benefits of the
Revitalization Plan, Brannon said town offi-
cials hope that the facelift of downtown will

Brannon also noted that despite the plan’s
relatively high price tag, it will be paid for in
cash and without any tax increases or assess-
ments. Financing came from a federal grant,
municipal surpluses, and a $100,000 dona-
tion from Davidson College.

Once the Revitalization Plan is completed, _
Davidson will begin gearing up for the con-
struction of a new town hall. The new
building, which is still in the preliminary
planning stages, probably will be located
behind the present town hall and will include
space for administrative offices, fire and
police departments, and a community center.
Officials plan to raze the old building once |
the new one is occupied.

Although most of the construction work
has proceeded according to plan, workmen
received a surprise several weeks ago when
they uncovered an old well in front of the
ERA Marshall Case Co. building. The well;~~
thought by many to be the old community
well, was quickly filled in and covered over,
but there are plans to place a marker on the
spot if officials can confirm that it was in fact:
the community well.

Gtean Fo

SGA Senate meets

| Main Street renovations are finishing up with gutter replacements.

By TOM MOORE

Ken Krieg ’83 has been aman on
the move since leaving Davidson.
After receiving an “‘advanced gen-
eralist degree,” as he termed his
master’s in public policy from the
Kennedy School of Government at
Harvard, he received a Presidential
Management Internship, which
has taken him from the Pentagon to
the Packard Commission to the
National Security Council to the
Tower Commission to the White
House staff.

Thursday in the Morrison Room
of the Union, Krieg offered in-
sights into the stops along his res-
ume. Among other things, he dis-
cussed the Iran-Contra affair, from
the perspective of one investigat-
ing it and from that of one who is
now working inthe White House.

In December of 1986, Krieg”

became the fourth member of the
staff of the Tower Commission,

created by President Reagan as a _.

special review board to investigate
the behind-the-scenes dealing at
the NSC and in the White House.
Krieg denied that he was the com-
puter whiz that discovered the in-

Inside

criminating IBM PROF messages
in the NSC computer system:
During a question-and-answer

session after his lecture, Krieg re-

viewed facts surrounding the
phrase of the summer: “What did
the President know and when did
he know it?”

Krieg said that it is clear that
Reagan “‘adamantly supported” the
ends of releasing the hostages and
that of a democratic outcome in
Nicaragua. “He set the tone for
both,” Krieg said.

He asserted that Reagan was

“actively involved” in the Iran

arms deal, although it was never
presented as an arms-for-hostages
transaction as such. “Improving
long-term relations” and enhanc-

ing trust was the way. it was put, ©
-Krieg said. Iran defines trust as

weapons deals, and the United
States defines it as the return of
hostages, he said.

“Essentially there was a twelve

month period where no one pre-

sented the President with any nega-
tive details” concerning Iran.

On the Contra dealings, “It is not
as clear what the President knew.”

Reagan knew that private money
was aiding the effort, Krieg said,
but “I would be very surprised if the
President thought they were just
buying TV ads with the money.”

‘He knew that Saudi Arabia pro-
vided funds, but did not know.

about the other countries, Krieg
said.
Krieg is presently working in the

White House, a position he pro-

cured only two weeks after the

‘Tower Commission published its

report. “We're responsible for
three things,” Krieg said.

“For the first time, one individual
(Krieg’s boss) has been respon-
sible for all services in the White
House complex. We have two
phone systems, two computer sys-
tems, etcetera.” .

Also, “We are preparing for the
transition” to the next Administra-

tion. Usually, Krieg said, the cur- °

rent Administration packs on the
19th of January and hands over the
keys on the 20th.

Lastly, “We are responsible for

- controlling the paper flow to the

See KRIEG, Page3

Topics discussed: carrier radio,

new dorms

By ROBERT SMALLEY

The SGA Senate held its first
regular Tuesday night meeting
with all newly elected Senators this
week. The Senate unanimously
approved the constitution for the.
new student-run carrier-current
Station. :

As reported two weeks ago, the
Senate enthusiastically supports
such student initiatives and en-
courages all interested students to

get involved with this project. The

carrier-current station is now eli-
gible to receive the $250 allotted by
the Activities Tax Council.
Regarding the placement of the
new dorms, the Senate passed a
resolution stating its preferences
for locations. Apparently most stu-

dents favor placing the dorms in the =

wooded area between the soccer
field and the golf course. This land
is being tested for this possibility.

- A second choice is to locate two

dorms in the Belk lot and two more

across from Richardson dorm,
where Lingle manor now stands.

Reflecting student wishes, the
Senate’s stated third choice is the
area behind Akers and Irwin
dorms. The Senate does not believe
that the Belk parking lot can ac-
commodate all four dorms while
maintaining an uncrowded atmos-
phere.

Senators wanted also to empha-
size that a quality job is the main
priority. The Trusteés have re-
tained the services of a profes-
sional consultant in planning and it
should be two weeks before we
have his opinions.

Finally, the Senate reviewed the
proposed academic calendar for
1988-89. The Senate will suggest
that more than one reading day be
scheduled, and that this be made
possible by cancelling the last two
days of classes prior to Christmas
break.

