Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

Biology Society works on nesting sites

The Biology Society, in order to commemorate Davidson College's Ses-
quicentennial, is working to establish 150 nesting sites for cavity nesting birds.
The new nesting sites will improve the bird habitats on and around Davidson and
stop the dramatic declines in population of many birds. .

Once nesting sites have been established, the society will monitor each site
for successful nesting, number of birds fledged, and cleaning and repair of sites.

’ For anyone who would like to support this project, a $5.00 donation will
sponsor a house. A $10.00 donation sponsors two houses, one of which may be

placed in the sponsor’s yard. The society also needs 8’ cedar posts (2.5” —
diameter) or a 8’ pipe (3/4” in diameter).

3” in

For more information, please contact Bob Kemerait at -6161, SenteHe 213

or Dr. John Williamson at ext. 324.

Material contributed by Bob Kemerait and Dr. John Williamson

Rape Crisis office hours

’ The Davidson College Rape Crisis now holds office hours four nights a
week. The purpose is to ease access to confidential counseling for those who
have experienced sexual assault and to offer information on the issue to any in-
terested persons. Please feel free to stop by, Monday through Thursday, 1-9
p.m. They're in the Union (in the former Shangrila Room). No appointment is

necessary.

Material contributed by Kim Williams

Beyond Davidson

Chad shoots Libyan jets, Congress reconvenes

By DAVID WILLIAMS
ial | Headlining Events for the week Janu-
“ary 5-8:

Around the World — The Libyan
airforce used four Soviet-built MIG- 23
planes to stage a bombing raid on two
targets in southern Chad lying below the
16th parallel that divides Chad into north-
ern and southern halves. The Chadian
army shot down one of the Libyan jets.

The French, who have committed
themselves to defend the southern region
of Chad, retaliated against Libya by
bombing a Libyan-held radar installation
at-Wadi Doum in northern Chad.

Philippine official Aquilino Pimen-
tel, an adviser to President Corazon
Aquino, said “long and tortuous” negoti-

‘ations would have to take place before a
Moslem ‘insurgency is ended in the
Philippines.

The Soviet’ Union proposed to
negotiate a timetable for withdrawal of
troops from Afghanistan through U.N.-
sponsored talks. The proposal eame from
Soviet news agency TASS, as Soviet
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze
returned to Moscow from Kabul.

New York's Cardinal O’Connor met
Sunday with Israeli President Chaim
Herzog and Monday with Foreign Minis-
ter Shimon Peres in Jerusalem. The Vati-
can called O’Connor’s meetings an “act
of courtesy” and said they should not be
considered official acts of Vatican diplo-
macy.

Iraqi oiakes attacked a Liberian-re-
gistered oil tanker and set it on fire near
Iran’s Kharg Island oil terminal. Mean-
while. Iranian férces intercepted eight

foreign ships in the Persian Gulf.

Israeli helicopters staged attacks on ~

southern Lebanese bases of Moslem
Shiite fundamentalists, killing at least
three people.

A strike movement by French unions
extended from the railroads to the state-
run electrical power company in France
and the Paris subway, but prime Minister
Jacques Chirac said he would not depart
from the “austerity” policies the govern-

ment has undertaken to prevent a down-

turn in the French economy
Illegal posters urging Chinese leader

‘Deng Xiaoping to make democratic re-

forms reappeared on the walls of Peking
University.
The official Vietnamese press agency

reported that Vietnamese troops had suc- .

cessfully repulsed a Chinese attack at the
border and had killed or wounded 500
Chinese soldiers.

’ Across the Nation — The 100th
Congress convened for the first time
Tuesday, and the House and Senate both
voted to create special panels to probe the

Iran-Contra affair. Lawrence Walsh, the

independent counsel appointed in the
Iran-Contra affair, will consider taking
over three investigations to determine
whether criminal activity was involved in
the diversion of funds to the Nicaraguan
Contras from the sale of arms to Iran.
Meanwhile, the Senate intelligence com-
mittee voted not to honor a Reagan ad-
ministration request to release the 150-
page report by the committee on its shai
into the Iran-Contra affair.

An Amtrak train carrying more than
500_passengers_ between Washington,

~ D.C. and Boston Sunday collided with

three Conrail engines hauling freight, kil-
ling 15 and injuring 176 in the worst train
wreck in Amtrak history. U.S. Senators
and ‘Representatives began questioning
whether freight trains and Amtrak. trains
should be allowed to run on the same
tracks.

Federal investigators determined that
the New Years Eve fire in the Dupont
Plaza hotel in San Juan, Puerto Rico was
started when an arsonist ignited furniture
stored in plastic wrapping in the ballroom
area. The death toll from the fire rose to
96. sa
President Reagan underwent success-

ful surgery to remove an obstruction from —

an enlarged prostate} Doctors also re-
moved four apparently noncancerous
polyps from his colon.

President Reagan Monday submitted
to Congress a fiscal year 1988 budget to-
talling nearly $1.02 billion. The Reagan
Administration calculated a deficit for
FY 1988 of $107.8 billion, but Congres-

_sional Democrats said these figures were

substantially underestimated by as much
as $27 billion. Both Republicans and
Democrats in Congress said the budget
would have to be substantially reworked.
The President approved substantial
salary increases for high-level Federal
employees, including Cabinet officers,
members of Congress, and Federal
judges. Congressional salaries will in-
crease from. $77,400 to $89,500.
Senator Richard- Lugar (R.-Indiana)
defeated Senator Jesse Helms (R.-North

Carolina) by a margin of 7-0 for the posi- .

tion of ranking Republican on the Senate

Foreign Relations Committee. House
Democrats voted 130-124 to depose Rep-
resentative Les Aspin (D.-Wisconsin) as
chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee. Five of seven Armed Ser-
vices subcommittee chairmen endorsed
Marvin Léath (D.-Texas) to replace
Aspin.

In ‘Economic Headlines — The
Dow Jones Industrial Average closed
Wednesday at a record 1993.95 points,
as stock prices rose sharply. The Dow ad-
vanced 98 points since last Friday, the —
first trading day of 1987. _

President Reagan’s Budget Director
James Miller rejected the possibility of a
summit between the President and Con-
gressional leaders on a means to reduce
the federal deficit. House Ways and
Means Committee Chairman Dan Ros-
tenkowski said he expects his committee
will approve an international trade bill by
May.

U.S. oil prices rose above $18 a bar-
rel, the highest level since nearly a year
ago. Domestic automobile sales set a re-

. cord of 16.3 million units in 1986, up 0.8

million from the previous record set in
1985.

Factory orders climbed 4.1 percent in
November, while construction spending
fell 0.7 percent. Bankamerica rejected
First Interstate’s takeover offer.

The Commerce Department dis-
closed that it had uncovered a plot to
smuggle U.S., electronics .equipment. to
Bulgaria. Thé U. oe government began
seeking bids for a.contract for a new tele-
communications network, which could
total $4 billion.

No way

You mean people who read

The Davidsoni ian

wear ties. like these tooo! I!

So fit in and read ~

The Davidsonian.

