10-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, News Editor
Tom Moore, Features Editor Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Think carefully

The three long weeks are finally over. This evening, after much an-

ticipation, Davidson freshmen will at last be able to set foot in Patterson -

Court houses for the first time. The “freshmonslaught” has begun.

Of course, it wasn’t always like this.

It used to be that freshmen could visit the Court as soon as they ar-
rived at Davidson. All through the first weeks of the term, and some-
times even during orientation; houses threw wild bashes at which
freshmen were the most important guests. “Rush” began in earnest even
before the first classes, no holds barred. Self-sdlection imposed some
quirky restrictions on things like “oral discouragements” and so forth,

‘but by and large the freshman assault on the Court (or, if you prefer, the
Court’s assault on the freshmen) proceeded in a free, open and unhin-
dered fashion.

But two years ago, someone decided that freshmen were being hurt
by all the attention from the Court. It was said that the big parties and the
- social pressure were destroying freshman “hall unity” before it had a
chance to develop. So Patterson Court was declared temporarily off-
limits to freshmen. Why? More than anything else, it was because the ef-
fects of hard drinking and hard partying seemed to take a serious toll
among freshmen. And the Court took a lot of the blame for that.

The blame was misplaced. Sure, there’s alcohol on the Court, and
sure, any freshman will be able to drink all that he or she wants (the “al-
cohol policy” wasn’t intended to prevent it). But the Court can handle its
own drinking because it involves more than just alcohol; the Court is a

source of unity, a fraternal community, and the pulsating heart of a lively —

campus social life.

No, freshmen tend to do it to themselves. Perhaps it’s because
they’re finally away from home and able to stumble into bed without
worrying about Mom & Pop. Perhaps it’s “peer pressure.” Perhaps they
just lack experience with alcohol and drugs (very doubtful). Whatever
the reasons, freshman usually get more totally trashed, majorly wasted,
and absolutely smashed than anybody else.

Upperclassmen tend to drink less, and perhaps freshmen could learn

_ from their experience. Most juniors and seniors, for example, can proba-
bly remember how some girl or guy on their hall drank like a fish all
through freshman year only to sober up considerably as the years went
by. People who always got carried back from parties three years ago now
limit themselves to a beer or two. Not all students change their habits this
much, but quite a few do. How can we account for the transformation?

Experience is probably one of the most important reasons behind the
change in drinking habits. Upperclassmen remember all sorts of things
that most freshmen will have to experience for themselves. Like waking
up with someone they didn’t know. Or trashing a Court house even
though a lot of their friends were members. Or getting kicked in the gut
by a drunken roommate after puking on the carpet. How about shoving
one’s hand through a window, or winding up in the Dean’s office for
knocking over a lamppost? Or breaking a kneecap falling off Belk’s third
floor? Or getting your wrists slashed in a drunken razor-blade fight?
These sorts of things happen. Regularly. And quite often they’re the
kinds of memories that turn party animals into méllow, calm up-
perclassmen.

There’s nothing wrong with drinking, freshmen. Just think carefully
about it. A lot of older people wish they had.

Correction: an.article on page 5 of the September 25 issue of the David-

sonian inaccurately referred to Assistant Dean of Students Paula Moore _

as Paula Moore Miller. The editors regret the error.

Friday, October 2, 1987 THE DA VIDSONIAN:

READY FoR »
The Flood?

Across Campus, Lv Ry OVE LAIOYS The
FRESHLY PAINTED se ia LESS

f,

——

WET

reins neta z

Bvt ELseEwWeERE...

: S
AS Tue Crass Can, Un, PLAINLY
SEE By THe , fel MAap...

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson
College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.
‘Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily
reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per
year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jon Boles, Margeret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa
LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan
Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Toby Truog. oe

Features Staff: Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffmann, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill

Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn
Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.
Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation,
Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts. : :

Production Staff:Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Bowe.

Strickland, Susan Majors, Jon Boles. ;
Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Bill Carrell, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.
