10 patie
THE DAVIDSONIAN

laady Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors ©
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editer Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
_ Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Aiciriphs Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers ’
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda.Korfmann, Production Editor

at

Brats

In the “Battle for the Hornet’s Nest” on Dec. 13, an unfortunate set of
events occurred that hurt Davidson’s image as a fine and upstanding cen-
ter of learning. We do not mean the fact that Davidson lost the game; al-
though losing to UNCC in basketball is disappointing, Davidson’s team
“both played. and conducted themselves with a great deal of class.

The performance of some of Davidson’s fans caused more long-term
damage to Davidson’s image than any event since the “Megaphone
Game” against. UT-Chattanooga two years ago. While most of David-
son’s fans screamed their lungs out in support of their team, some fans.
were more intent on yelling obscenities at UNCC’s fans and venting their
anger at losing by throwing trash on the. court.

We are not urging the fans to be either quiet or excessively polite:
there is nothing wrong with fans being loud. The volume of noise in
Johnston Gym last season approached that of an airline taking off. Op-
posing coaches consistently remarked how Davidson’s fans disrupted
their team by being so loud. Additionally, these coaches remarked that
they admired Davidson students who were loud and supportive rather
than rude.

With all the national attention give to Duke’s fans’ use of verbal and
material abuse, every college with hoopaholics aims to one-up the Blue
Devils’ “Circus.” Too often, however, this attempt to be the rowdiest
‘goes to far. Rudeness and tactlessness takes precedence over cleverness
and wit. The group of Davidson fans that waved various gestures at the
UNCC section and threw trash apparently ran out of intelligent cheers
and resorted to Visigothic tactics.

>

When Appalachian State comes to Johnston Gym next Saturday, we
_urge all Davidson students to come scream until hoarse. Leave the trash
in the dorms’ wastebaskets.

USToiw =

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSON FANS
WAVE TO SHOW
THEIR END OF
THE. ARGUMENT.

. ’
\

\

(

NN

fi i |

Letters

Cloudt

To the Editors:
We write in response to Richard

‘ Cloudt’s editorial cartoon which appeared

in the December 10, 1986 edition of The

*. Davidsonian. The cartoon dipicted Dean of

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,

_Bc~ 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy
Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed
Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.
Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve
Mank, Diana Miller.

Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert
Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby. Sowell, Kathryn Strick-
land, Satah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.
Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Students Will Terry as the ultimate decision
maker in the hall counselor selection pro-
cess. Further, the cartoon implied that Dean

Terry was concerned that the incoming :

freshman advisors suit his purposes, The

cartoonist shared the often heard opinion’ -

that the hall counselor selection committee
seeks candidates with particular social club
affiliation. As members of last year’s'selec-
tion committee, we would like to take this
opportunity to clarify the objectives of the
selection committee, and the roles of both
the Dean of Student’s Office and the
freshman advisors.

Great pains were taken to insure that the
selection committee was representative of

the Davidson student body. Ten people sat -

on last year’s committee, which included
the Director of Housing, the Dean of Stu- ~
dents, the two Associate Deans of Students,

three fraternity members, one student from
an all-female eating house, oné indepen-
dent, and one freshman. The freshman ad-
visors selected the non-staff committee
members due to their past experience with
the hall counseling program and for the di-
versity they would bring to the committee.
Moreover, each committee member had ac-
cess to the same information, had an equal
input into the questions asked in the inter-
views and the discussions afterward, and

‘had an equal vote. Dean Terry had no more

influence on the selection process than any
other member of the committee.

The cartoon also insinuated that priority
was given to candidates with certain social
affiliations. This is definitely not the case.
Every effort was made to insure that each
applicant was given equal consideration.
For this reason, the selection process was
based soley upon the interview, the written
application, and peer evaluations. Social
affiliation was never a factor in selection.

Finally, the cartoon intimated that Dean
Terry had a vested interest in the selection
of the freshman advisors. Dean Terry had .
absolutely no control over the selection of

a “othe? freshman advisors. Any current hall
: ‘counselor was eligible to run for the posi-

tion. The student body then selected from
those that chose to run by means of an elec- .
tion.

Inherent with any selection process are
various opinions as to why some are
selected and why some are not selected. We
strongly believe that hall counselor selec-
tion is not contingent upon the particular so-
cial affiliation of the candidate or the candi-
date’s relationship to Dean Terry. The can- -
- didate’s character, integrity, and ability to
relate to others as revealed through the in-
terview, the written application, and the
peer evaluations determine whether he is
selected. While interest in the hall coun-
selor application process is encouraged and
appreciated, we feel this particular cartoon _
misrepresented the facts. Additionally, the
message would have carried more Cloudt if
the cartoonist had used the word “coun-
selor” rather than “counsilor,”

Brett Flinchum
Craig Carlock
