10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager

Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Mark Chen, Features Editor Lee Eichelberger, /nside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor

Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Sesquicentennial

As Davidson begins its long, and perhaps overblown, Sesquicenten-

nial Celebration, we feel. pride in the tremendous success achieved by —

our school. Yet we urge modesty and have some questions regarding
Celebration plans.

‘Currently Davidson will play its 1987 Homecoming game against
Princeton in Charlotte. The reasoning behind having the game in Char-
lotte lies in drawing more of both Princeton and Davidson alumni to the
festivities. ec

If one considers the realities of Homecoming instead of the ideals,
the undesireability of this plan becomes apparent. First, Davidson. stu-.
dents, like college students everywhere, include the drinking of large
amounts of alcohol among their Homecoming activities. Second, David-
son students as a whole are notorious for the lack of support they show
for their football team. Third, alumni return to see the school, not the
football game.

None of these points are appealing descriptions. Ignoring them,
however, will not cause them to go away. Forty miles of driving by
Homecoming celebrants will not make the highways any safer if alcohol
levels at Homecoming maintain normal levels. If a 100-yard walk keeps
people away from the football games, a 20-mile trip certainly will keep
students in their Patterson Court parties all afternoon.

Having the game in Charlotte is Simply an attempt to draw more at-
tention to Davidson's birthday bash. If the letter of two weeks ago con-

cerning Davidson fans is any indication, most people in Charlotte either

do not care about or even hate Davidson College. The only people who
care about Davidson being 150 years old are ea at Davidson. Why
not keep the game amongst those that care?

é

Finally, Davidson should consider its religious ties and restrain from
the sin of pride. The senior class, for example, should tone down its in-
_ dulgence in being the Sesquicentennial class. For their class gift the Ses-
quicentennial Class is giving a scholarship named, you guessed it, the
Sesquicentennial Class Scholarship. Being a member of the Sesquicen-

tennial Class is a fluke of birthdates, not a meritorious achievement. The -

classes of 1986 and 1988 are every bit as good as the Sesquicentennial
Class; they were only born a year early or late.

Congratulations, Davidson College, on being so old. Just remember
to keep the noise down at your party lest ye wake any wrathful neighbors.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15

_ per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

__ News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy

- Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely. Ed
Matthews. Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.
Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove: Steve
Mank, Diana Miller.

Sports Staff: Rick Case. Boyd Coasins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins .
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Highie, Penelope Hughes. Ken Jones. Kyons
Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

. Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig. Amelia Fox. Gates Grainger. Robert
Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strick-
land, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

Wednesday, January 28, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

| Cloudt's view

TONIGHT, OUR ©
SERIES ON CRIME
TAKES US TO —
DAVIDSON, NORTH
CAROLINA, WHERE oe

TELL US, MISS, 1S
THE PROBLEM Bab?
“AIN‘T NOTHIN’ YOU
CAN DO ?BouT IT...

YEAH. pee
gat ae es 8 TOWNIES !

WL LL
ER BOM, &

lana hct ct OF hin hal

‘os MMMDELEOPET A
BOLL
Lhe

emtHttte f py WIHT),

WY LLLM.
VME ,

aaa Aaen

TERRIBLE

“HEY, I KNOW a

HER! SHE WORKS || O#-><ING
AT THE LOCAL GRAMMAR,
QUICK STORE! / | SSLURPS

8 ee KIDS—
© ALWAYS. STEALIN’ °

re sscasnles *

: (a)
THE DAvIDSONIAN
HOW DO
THEY KNOW f!

TPE TP.

By yyy <

WIE.

Insinuations

To the Editors: :

Sharon Spong’s article‘on pornography
raised some important issues about. adver-
tising at Davidson. I agree with her that the

issue is extremely important. But, I’m not’

sure that she has taken her point far enough.
The problem of fliers and T-shirts seeming
to advocate violence toward women has
been apparent since I have been a student at
Davidson. But what are the concerned stu-
dents to do when raising the issue invites
only hostility from those who print the fliers
or indifference of college administrators?
Two examples come immediately to mind.

About two years ago the Lacrosse team
printed T-shirts with the logo “It takes a
quick stick to beat a tight crease.” Clearly
this logo implies violence toward women.
However, when confronted with the vio-
lence, the team members did not see the
problem. Even a member of the administra-
tion said that he saw nothing wrong since
the terms “quick stick” and “tight crease”
could be used to describe the game.

_ The second instance involves the Pi
Kappa Alpha sale of hot dogs. Last spring,
the advertisemeits stated at the bottom
“. . and so'I gave her my Pike Dog be-
tween the buns.” I won't analyze the mean-
ing here, I think that it is clear. Again, the
administration, although not completely in-
different, refused to say anything to the fra-
tenity. In fact, two women were told to han-
dle the situation themselves. The fraternity
was not only completely uncooperative,
they printed the same quotation on the very
next flier.

I do not want to single out these two or-

ganizations (along with the Sig Eps) be-
cause this type of advertising is common.
For example, last spring the KA “Over the
Hump Party” depicted something bouncing
between what gave the appearance to be a
prone woman’s breasts. The KA’s also had
a poster this year with a bolt being driven

into a screaming nut. The list goes. on with
other fraternities and even women’s eating .
houses advertising with, if not explicitly
violent, certainly tasteless fliers.

I have been told by many people that we
are over reacting; that if we bring up these
issues the problem will only get worse be-
cause the signs and T-shirts get attention.
Maybe we are over reacting a very little bit,
but we need to try to balance the scale. If is-
sues are not forced, nothing will ever
change. The organizations of Davidson
College should begin to read everything
that their fliers say. Are they depicting vio-
lence or rape? If so, maybe the flier could be
changed. I’m not advocating censorship.
Davidson students are supposed to be ma-
ture responsible adults and I am asking
them.to take responsibility.

Sarah Smith
To the Editors:
Dear Captain Pike Dog,

Please note that the Davidson College
Rape Crisis is not unappreciative of the free
publicity you gave to us in the latest account
of your misadventures. Your “subtle” refer-
ence to the role-play discussion attended by
your fraternity brothers and the women of
Rusk last November indicate that our en-
deavor to stimulate thoughtfulness and con-
cern over the issue of acquaintance rape was
indeed a success. _Why else would
memories of the event linger for so long
upon your conscience?

It is said that you are distressed over
your inability to form intimate relationships
with members of the opposite sex,: but I
hardly think it’s our fault, or the fault of any
other campus women’s organization, that
you can't get a date. Could it be that you.
suffer from ‘chronic halitosis? Mayes
charm- school would help.

With all due respect,
Kim Williams
