’
KE MLE OTANI he BOO

Opinions

On honor and self-scheduled exams

Ray Thornton

Until last month, I lived at peace with the Davidson
tradition of honor. My peaceful affirmation of that tradi-
tion ended when November’s issue of “The Dean’s Outbas-
ket” was pushed under my door. How could self-scheduled
exams be in peril? To me, the exam procedure was the most
poignant indicator of our Code’s effectiveness, of the
community of mutual trust that it fostered. If self-sched-
uled exams were abolished, so was the Honor Code. That
the faculty could nonchalantly conclude that “the Honor
Codeis much larger than the convenience of self-scheduled
exams” made mecrazy. It forced me to see the Code in new
light, to think about my perception of the Code and to
consider the honor and trust that purportedly characterize
this Community.

If anything ever put the fear of God into me (besides my

father’s anger), it was the Honor Code symposium during
freshman orientation. It was Dean Terry spelling out the
Code*s commandments and waving before him our signa-
tures on the forms of compliance; it was Cynthia Lewis
citing a definition of plagiarism that convinced me, in my
freshman paranoia, that no thought I could ever have was
original; it was each member of the Honor Council explain-
ing his role in trial proceedings. My first impulse was to
find a lawyer --.and quickly. It was for me a fearful
experience.

So my first association of Davidson honor is with fear.
Thanks to a junior’s observation that freshman were the
only students who developed neuroses over the Code, the
fear subsided and I began to see the benefits of having the
thing. One has only to listen to uppérclassman satires of the
Honor Council (comments on Big Brother, the Gestapoand
the honor pigs, for example), to sense the resonation of
indoctrinated fear. This is not to say that I think fear is bad.
Insofar as fear comes to predominate as the reason for
acting in a-certain manner, however, it victimizes and

alienates. That, I think, is bad. It was that summoning of —

fear and dread in “Do-it-and-see-what-you-get” style that
characterized my honor symposium. Iremember little else.

I do not even remember having been told what honor is.
Now I know that to speak of a person’s honor is to speak of
his integrity, probity and nobility of mind. If one looks to
feudal Europe, he sees a much different conceptualization
of honor, acode of principally male integrity maintained by
force of arms. The idea of honor has evolved since then to
the more wholistic sense of personal integrity maintained
without legal or other obligation. That is to say, honor is
an intrinsic way of being that is not bound up in rules and
codes, and obedience borne out of these is not inherently
honorable. Thus, I have a problem with the concept of
naming something an Honor Code, which to me implies a
set of rules by which one might achieve honor.

Beyond my qualm with the name, I feel that our concep-
tualization of honor under this system is limiting. ‘For
example, we are told by the institution that students are
trusted to take exams at times of their own choice. In the
same breath, we are told that we must take the exam in a
Chambers classroom, that we may not leave Chambers
during our writing of the exam and that all books must be
left outside. In effect, we are told: “We trust you, but not
a whole lot.” -

Trust flows naturally fyem honor: It is confidence in the
integrity and truth of another person. If, in fact, our
conception of honoris limited, then so is our ability to trust
proportionally limited. In other words, a lack of ‘trust
implies a deficit of honor on the part of another, which
seems to me to be the case with regard ‘to self-scheduled
exams,

Consider the requirement that we write in Chambers.
Though there are certainly logistical advantages inherent
in this policy, I submit that there is a more basic reason for
it. To write an exam anywhere else supposes a smaller
concentration of people in the same area. Thus, there are
fewer people to ensure that you abide by the Code's
proscriptions. Where the element of fear and intimidation
in the form of watchful peers is not present, the temptation
to cheat may not be overcome and the act may go unre-
ported. Davidson does not trust the individual to be

Do you belong to a fraternity?

Ken Bogert

Davidson does not need fraternities. They harm the
college, not enhance it. Evidence of the harm they do is
easy to find; I see it everywhere. Factionalism -- that is
what fraternities are all about, creating closed groups.

This is the first article in a two-part opinion (the next one
will appear in next week’s Davidsonian). In the first
article, that which follows here, I characterize the different
fraternities around campus, distinguishing one from an-
other. Next week, I will hypothesize that these images the
fraternities have around campus are actually an indication
of the factionalism that harms our college community.
Now, however, let’s see what makes those “frats” so
Special.

The FIJIs belong off campus. Their brothers, as one
professor said in class one day, are drug addicts. Beyond
that, I think we can safely say that they are all weirdos and
_ Yeally ruin _Davidson’s_image_as a conservative, well-

they deserve any? Although they moved back to Patterson
Court and out of their famed party houseat 609 Main Street,
they still cannot be considered a legitimate “frat” at
Davidson. One shortcoming is that they are forced to
import females from Queens College to all their parties.
Without “Queenies,” their parties would beacomplete loss
(some say they are anyway). And no matter how loyal they
seem when they holler their stupid little chant at the stroke
of midnight, the brothers must admit that Sig-Ep was not
their first choice of fraternities, but a safety-valve frater-
nit

Phi-Delts are definitely too tough for Davidson, or so
they think. Obviously responsible for the majority of
damage around campus, nobody can be sure if they respect
anything -- anything except brute force, that is. The verdict
on these guys is that they should have gone to N.C. State or
maybe Carolina, where immaturity is commonplace.

Not too mature themselves, the Sigma Alpha Epsilons
are probably the most recognizable people on campus.
This distinctive aspect has to do with the incredible simi-
larity of their backgrounds. Maybe half of the brothers
went to Woodberry Forest prep school where they began to
mold their “Hoddy” personalities. The prerequisites for

mannered institution. At their leisure, the brothers take-off
to the house to engage in wild rituals and bong hits, but not
necessarily in that order. Well, that’s what we all hear
anyway -- normal people have.never gone to the FIJI house
to find out for themselves. Nevertheless, it must be true.

The PiKA fraternity consists of alarge number of ex-high
school athletes as wéll as some members of varsity sports
here on campus. The remainder are hard to classify, but
they all enjoy drinking beer a great deal. Give PiKA
brothers some beer and each other -- they will certainly
have a good time. At the PiKA house, it is not hard to find
Stimulating conversation. Old stories of great champion-
ships won in high school abound. Did you know that most
PiKAs used to play against at least one athlete that went on
to be a professional? ‘It’s true! . °

joining help keep the group pure, eliminating any variety
that might make the “frat” less noticible. A “Hod” must
ownaland-cruiser bicycle and.acrushed golf hat. A “Hod”
is not allowed to wear briefs, but must always wear boxer
shorts. Moreover, in order to become a member, you must
also be able to drink anything and have the ability tocontrol
when you are going to barf. A scruffy beard is considered
by many brothers to be in excellent taste.

Kappa Sig, the newcomer. This “frat” has broughta little
variety back to campus with its “Comedy Night Parties,”
but does anyone know who these guys.are? If the members
want to have a different image than the rest of the fraterni-
ties on Patterson Court, they should have remained inde-
pendents. Creation of anew “frat” simply proves that they
envy the others. How can they want to be individuals and

The Davidsonian

Friday, December 4, 1987

IS

honorable of his own accord; it trusts the individual to be
honorable so long as there is someone else present to ensure
our honor. If this is the “atmosphere of trust” fostered by
our Code, it is one of limited trust at best, and if trust is
qualified or half-hearted, it is no trust at all.

Perhaps this is most elegantly illustrated in Terry's
statement that the faculty believes the Code “‘works on
reviews and‘ quizzes” but not’ on exams. Reviews and
quizzes, in my experience, are usually in-class affairs
controlled by the professor insofar as each student writes
during the same fifty-minute period. Except for the.
possibility ofacheating orgy wherein the entire class might
collaborate on answers, there is no real opportunity for
dishonor. Where there is no avenue for dishonor, there is
no need for trust. In fact, when dishonorability is nota
possibility, there is no‘nobility in honor, and this concept
of choice is central to Western theology.

It seems to me that these who advocate the-abolition of .
self-scheduled exams would remove the possibility for
dishonor. That miay seem arcal boon until one realizes that
the possibility for honor is removed at the. same-time. ‘We:
are denied the chance to grow in honor if we.cannot make
achoice to be honorable. In this light, the abolition of self-
scheduled exams in hope of saving our communal honor is
a twisted, destructive and most unfortunate conclusion. '

I perceive the very idea of abolishing self-scheduled
exams as an admission of failure on‘the part of thefaculty,
the students and the Honor Code. Such action would solve
no problem of student morality; it would be, in fact, an
affirmation of our state of dishonor’and distrust. There
have been and shall-‘always be violations ofthe Code, and
we are hopeless if.we refuse to accept that. I agree that
something needs to change if we are to really recapture the
spirit of the Honor Code at Davidson. We must, as Sylvia
Plath put it, “haul up our eyelids” to the fact that there is no
honor in the Code, only in the human person. And in that
direction, we must look for new ways to express our
dedication to honor, ways free of moral. imperatives and
half trust.

Ray Thornton is a sophomore Music Performance major
from Point Pleasant, West Virginia, and is Opinions Editor
of The Davidsonian.

KAs have long been the elite of Patterson Court. The
rich, white boys generally have more money than the rest
of us and are very conservative as their Old South ritual and
their Duck Head pants indicate. Guilty of ending their
parties earlier than anyone else, the nickname “milk drink-
ing boys” is appropriate. They respect and honor General
Robert E. Lee,-a man. of excellent breeding and manners
who defended the Southern way of life, which included
slavery?!

Well, if you belong to any house or even if you don’t, you
may be upset with what I have said. I would like to say in
my defense that these are not my straightforward opinions
on the subject, but rather the images that come to mind
(maybe slightly exaggerated just for the fun of it) when I
think of our “frats.” Please recognize my dry humor no
matter how bad it is and don’t think I truly believe any of
what I have just said. But be truthful to yourselves, don’t
you ever characterize the fraternities in the same way? If
you have read this much, you certainly were able to relate
to what I have said in some way. You cannot tell me that
others, such as that professor who called the FIJIs drug
addicts, do not have similar images of the fraternities.
Those. images are.(although exaggerated in this article)
widely held around Davidson.

The point of all this is that the fraternities have at least
one thing in common. They take individuals and reform
them in their image -- thatis how we can understand the
characterization of each group. No doubt there are many

-excellent people that belong to fraternities, but I believe

that these people could better serve themselves and
Davidson if they were not in a “frat.” What do you think?
Instead of giving me threatening phone calls, why not get .
back at me with a well-written, thoughtful article in next—
week’s paper?

Next week I'll be talking about how the “frats” hurt
Davidson.

Ken Bogert is is a senior rr History major from Ho-Ho-Kus,

_—k Sig-Eps do not get any respect around campus, but do —yet conform to fraternity system of the Court? New Jersey _

_
