In Britain, most debates among candidates for Prime
Minister are held over the radio. The British are nearly as
fond of their radio debates as the English are proud of their
ethnicity:

In the beginning by some mistake

Men were foreigners all created;

Til heaven conceived a nobler plan

And there was born an Englishman

Conceive the difference, if you can,

Had Adam been an Englishman.

Unlike their British counterparts, Presidential candi-
dates in this nation can avoid, to great extents, confronta-
tions with one another and with public opinions by using
brief commercials and rehearsed speeches to inform citi-
zens. Such avoidances do not befit a republic; selecting a
president requires better knowledge ‘of the virtues and
thoughts of the candidates than their commercials and
speeches can provide. Therefore, the Democratic party and
the Republican party should write into their bylaws that at

Opinions
Candidate radio debates: the vital equalizer

dates, but would lessen the possibility of a chance remark
taking on inappropriate significance. In 1976, Gerald Ford
lost face when he said that Poland had managed to remain
Outside the iron curtain. In 1980, Jimmy Carter when he ad-
mitted to asking occasionally his daughter, Amy, for ad-
vice.

Radio debates need not be held to the exclusion of tele-
vision debates. Radio debates place emphases on virtues
and thoughts expressed; television debates place emphases

On appearances and gestures. The intentions of presidential.
candidates in television debates are to keep away from mis- .

takes and to look good. Herewith, the virtues and thoughts
of the candidates are eclipsed by their less relevant skills.

The first time television had an impact on a presidential
election was in 1960, with the Kennedy-Nixon debate.
Kennedy prepared for the debate by adding to his suntan.
Weak from illness, Nixon appeared pale and feeble. He had
to wear makeup, which was not considered appropriate for
a male at that time. Rumor was that Nixon had been made

least six radio‘debates are to be held among presidential — up by a Democrat. Many believe that Nixon’s unshaven ap-

candidates of the same party prior to the nominations, and
into their platforms that at least six fadio debates are to held
between presidential candidates prior to the election.

A half-dozen or more radios debates would not only
help citizens to evaluate and to compare presidential candi-

Are you only involved in yourselves?

Linda Tatsapaugh

Last weekend 129 people turned out for the CROP
walk. Two years ago, 200 showed up. It was a beautiful au-
tumn afternoon and the walk only took two hours or less.
Why did so few poeple participate? The walk committee
and I knocked ourselves out (and neglected studies often) to
make it a success, which it was for those who walked. I
don’t take it personally, therefore, that CROP went un-
noticed by much of the campus and the community. I be-
lieve this was just one more example of the apathy so com-
mon these days.

As coordinator of a Y Student Service Corps Program, I
see some terrific opportunities for students to offer their
service to the community (while learning a lot more about
the real world than they will in the library). I also see many
project directors (throughout the campus and beyond)
fighting for every inch of gain. It’s not uncommon to feel
guilty about asking for an hour of someone’s time.
Shouldn’t the person asked feel worse for refusing to help?

Why do people feel they’re doing mankind a huge favor

when they do manage to find a few minutes to give? Are
they really too busy to lend a hand? I run into this “overbur-
dened” attitude constantly in any area of service with which
I work. What has caused it?

Many excuses have been given for apathy toward social
service. Here at Davidson, students claim the work load is

—too heavy for them to afford time for service. Later in life, -

the same excuse holds. Besides, it is claimed, we’re paying
plenty of tax dollars toward government-run programs in
most needy sectors of the community. There are also many
people who are too comfortable to believe anyone could be
in need. And besides, they would explain, what could one
person do? There will always be poor, as well as sick. It’s a
fact of life that we cannot eradicate.

None of these excuses is enough to excuse apathy,
however. Time is what you make it. It all depends on where
your priorities are. That which is most important.to you,
you will find time for. Students, it is possible to have life
after little without failing. Perhaps a grade point will drop
occasionally, yntil you.leam efficiency of study time, but
the experience outside your books is a lot more educa-

__tional. _

pearance, suggesting a villain, caused him to lose the de-
bate. _

During a television debate with Carter, Ford had a dry
throat because his staff did not want on the podium a glass
of water for him to tip over. Recently, senator Paul Simon,

Of course, the tax dollar excuse is bogus. President
Reagan has often stressed his preference for private over
government programs. Existing government operations are
often inferior or just not extensive enough to meet the need
anyway. And the “one person against the world” excuse is
not worth the ink to oppose.

~ [ believe the impetus most people need is experience. I
would like-to see all middle- and-upper-income individuals
try out the lower brackets for awhile. A day ought to be
enough. And healthy, intelligent students ought to check
out old age, cancer, and illiteracy. Who knows, they might
need some help themselves someday. Then it won’t seem
like such a sacrifice to give an hour a week of time. It will
be a blessing. I do not want this article to sound defensive
of my own or other current programs. Many people are
doing wonderful things for others quite selflessly. There is
a live seed of community spirit wanting to sprout, and I am
optimistic about its success. It’s the greater community, the
uninvolved ones, to whom I appeal. I don’t really want to
make people feel guilty about what they haven’t done. I
only want to encourage them to act differently now, and to
reconsider the ends to their means. I will not expound upon
the blessings of giving; that must be experienced person-

ally. It is a sense of responsibility to the community, micro-
cosm of our interrelated earth, that [ wish to instill in minds
which have tried to remain detached, in the delusion that

‘locks,

The Davidsonian
Friday, October‘2, 1987

I]

t

preparing for a television debate’ with six other candidates
for the Democratic presidential nomination, spent more
time checking camera angles and listening to suggestions
as to how he should cross his legs than he spent revising his
argument for a more progressive tax system. Simon, a stu-
dent of Lincoln, considers him the model statesman. Pre-
paring for his senatorial debates with Stephen A. Douglas,
Lincoln certainly spent less time positioning his long, lean
body than he spent revising his challenge of the moral foun-
dations of slavery.

Americans who saw the Kennedy-Nixon debate on
television thought Kennedy triumphant; who saw the Car-
ter-Reagan debate and the Reagan-Mondale debate oni tele-
vision thoyght gan victorious. But Americans who
heard these debates over the radio considered them dead-
d journalists who covered these debates judged
them ties. In each of the three cases, the candidate chosen
as winner by the viewing audience was elected President.

E. B. White wrote in Harper's in 1938: “I believe tele-
vision is going to be the test of the modern world, and that
in this new opportunity to see beyond the range of our vi-
sion we shall. discover either a new and unbearable distur-
bance of the general peace or a saving radiance in the sky.
We shall stand or fall by television.” As candidates come to
depend on television, so does their government. Radio de-
bates would not allow citizens to look beyond the ranges of
their visions but would allow them to share in the warmth of
political minds and political hearts fully engaged.

Brown is a senior from Mint Hill, SC.

their apathy will not in the end affect them personally. Two
weeks ago, Lee Eichelberger wrote of the lack of student
involvement on campus. I believe he pinpointed the prob-
lem in a quotation from an administration official: “They’re
only involved in themselves.” Trouble is, they don’t realize
that the community is themselves. Incidentally, students
are not the only apathetic members of this community; only
one faculty and two staff members walked on Sunday.'I
realize this is one isolated event, but I know from experi-
ence that it is representative of others. It is always the same
people who are involved. Do they actually have so much
more.time that everyone else? I believe it is only a matter of
priorities.

As President Kuykendall’s task force on service begins
its difficult job of assessing present programs and suggest-
ing new ones, I wish them luck. I also offer them my opin-
ion that there will be no change in the current lack of service
on this campus (or anywhere else) unless they can alter
priorities. Until it is important to people to help neighbors,
until they understand how much we.are affected by our own
actions (both immediately and far in the future), they will
not be able to find the time to lend a hand.

Linda Tatsapaugh is a senior religion major from

Greensboro, NC. bt
A

Opinions policy

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only
forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent
issues. The editors will try to print all opinions dealing
with subjects of general interest to the campus commu-
nity, but they must adhere to the following guidelines:

‘The opinions must be neatly typed. The editors will
also accept articles submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI
WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS text file format.

Opinions must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Mon-
day before the expected publication date, except for
opinions submitted on diskettes, which are due at 5 p.m.
on Tuesday.

‘All opinions should be signed, Writers must present
the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish
their names to be printed with their articles.

“The staff will not edit opinions for content or style,
but for the rules of English grammar only. The editors
will inform the authors of any substantial changes.

‘Because of limited space, it is sometimes impossi-
ble to print all opinions submitted. The editors reserve
the right to select articles for publication from among
those received.

‘Writers should include information about their

home city and state, their graduating class, and their |
major field of study (or their profession). -
